
A/65/PV.36
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

36th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 26 October 2010, 10 a.m. 
New York 






President:  Mr. Deiss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 








  In the absence of the President, Mr. Carrión-Mena 
(Ecuador), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m. 




the  economic,  commercial  and 
Agenda item 41 
Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/65/83) 

  Draft resolution (A/65/L.3) 

Mr. Al-Saadi  (Yemen):  I  am  honoured  to  speak 

on behalf of the Group of 77 and China at this plenary 
meeting  on  agenda  item  41,  entitled  “Necessity  of 
ending 
financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba”. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  has  always  been 
firmly  against  the  embargo.  At  the  second  South 
Summit, held in Doha, Qatar, from 12 to 16 June 2005, 
heads of State and Government of the Group of 77 and 
China  firmly  rejected  the  imposition  of  laws  and 
regulations  with  extraterritorial  impact  and  all  other 
forms  of  coercive  economic  measures, 
including 
unilateral sanctions against developing countries. They 
called  on  the  Government  of  the  United  States  to  end 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
against  Cuba.  That  embargo,  in  addition  to  being 
unilateral  and  contrary  to  the  United  Nations  Charter 
and  international  law  and  to  the  principle  of  good-
losses  and 
neighbourliness,  causes  huge  material 
economic damage to the people of Cuba. 

In this regard, the Group of 77 and China would 
like  to  reiterate  once  again  its  long-standing  position 
on  this  important  matter. At  their  recently  held  thirty-
fourth  annual  meeting,  which 
took  place  on 
28 September  at  United  Nations  Headquarters  in  New 
York, the Ministers for Foreign Affairs of the member 
States of the Group of 77 and China, 

“firmly  rejected  the  imposition  of  laws  and 
regulations  with  extraterritorial  impact  and  all 
other  forms  of  coercive  economic  measures, 
including  unilateral  sanctions  against  developing 
countries,  and  reiterated  the  urgent  need  to 
eliminate  them  immediately.  They  emphasized 
that  such  actions  not  only  undermine 
the 
principles enshrined in the Charter of the United 
Nations  and  international  law,  but  also  severely 
threaten  freedom  of  trade  and  investment.  They 
therefore  called  on  the  international  community 
to  neither  recognize  these  measures  nor  apply 
them.” (A/65/486, annex, para. 69) 
The  Group  of  77  and  China  notes 

the 
communications  from  Governments  and  organs  and 
agencies  of  the  United  Nations  contained  in  the 
Secretary-General’s  report  on  the  implementation  of 
resolution  64/6  (A/65/83).  Sadly,  they  demonstrate 
unequivocally 
largely 
unchanged  and  continues  to  impose  severe  economic 
and  financial  restrictions  on  Cuba.  Furthermore,  the 
deepening  impact  of  the  global  economic  crisis  on 
the  embargo 
remains 
that 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-60252 (E) 
*1060252* 


to 
the  United  States,  will 
the  draft  resolution  against 
A/65/PV.36 

Cuba,  along  with  the  continued  embargo  by  the 
Government  of 
further 
aggravate  the  hardships  that  the  people  of  Cuba  are 
experiencing. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  calls  on  the  United 
States to heed the international community’s increasing 
calls to bring an end to the five-decade embargo and to 
fully  adhere  to  the  principles  of  mutual  respect  and 
non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  a  sisterly 
country.  The  embargo  frustrates  efforts  towards  the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
and negatively affects regional cooperation in the area. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  are  committed  to 
working  towards  a  better  world  for  all  in  which 
nations,  large  and  small,  can  peacefully  coexist.  The 
achievement  of  such  peaceful  coexistence  among 
States  requires  adherence  by  all 
the  cardinal 
principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  the 
peaceful conduct of relations among nations. 
The  Group  of  77  and  China  will  again  fully 

support 
the  embargo 
(A/65/L.3)  and  urges  all  Member  States  to  do  so  as 
well. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): Before 

giving the floor to the next speaker, given the long list 
of  speakers  inscribed  on  my  list,  I  should  like  to 
propose that the list of speakers for the debate on this 
item now be closed. Unless I hear any objection, I shall 
take it that the Assembly agrees to this proposal. 
It was so decided. 

Mr. Abdelaziz  (Egypt):  It  is  with  great  pleasure 

that I address the General Assembly today on behalf of 
the  118  Members  of  the  United  Nations  that  are 
members  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  and  to  start 
by  extending  a  warm  welcome  to  His  Excellency 
Mr. Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of Cuba, and expressing to him the Movement’s 
full support. 

Two  days  ago,  on  24  October,  we  celebrated 
United  Nations  Day,  the  anniversary  of  the  day  on 
which  the  Organization  officially  came  into  existence 
65  years  ago,  when  50  nations,  big  and  small,  jointly 
proclaimed their resolve to realize a set of noble aims 
based  on  timeless  values  and  undying  ideals  and 
decided  to  eternalize  them  in  the  United  Nations 
Charter. Today, the Non-Aligned Movement once again 
to  uphold, 
reaffirms 
its  unwavering  commitment 
It 
is 
in 
that 
regimes  of 
that  context 
the  economic  and  social 
preserve  and  promote  those  principles  and  to  ensure 
the  continued  viability  of  all 
the  provisions  of 
international  law,  which  together  constitute  the  very 
essence  of  our  multilateral  work  and  guide  our 
collective  efforts  to  maintain  international  peace  and 
security,  achieve 
lasting  economic  growth  and 
sustainable  development  and  ensure  full  respect  for 
human rights and fundamental freedoms. 

the  Non-Aligned 
Movement  finds  it  disturbing  that  unilateral  measures 
and  laws  of  a  coercive  nature  are  still  being  adopted 
and implemented against countries of the Movement — 
measures  and  laws  that  prevent  them  from  exercising 
their right to  freely decide  their own political systems 
and 
their 
preference. We cannot but firmly reject such violations 
of multilateralism and call for their immediate end. We 
also  appeal  to  all  States  to  refrain  from  recognizing 
such  measures  or  laws  and  to  support  the  claim  of 
affected  countries  to  compensation  for  any  damage 
incurred  as  a  result  of  this  breach  of  internationally 
agreed norms of conduct. 

This year, the President of the General Assembly 
has  wisely  chosen  as  the  theme  for  the  Assembly’s 
sixty-fifth  session  “Reaffirming  the  central  role  of  the 
United  Nations  in  global  governance”.  But  that  can 
only  happen  if  all  countries  of  the  United  Nations 
respect the rules that govern multilateralism and refrain 
from  taking  measures  that  defy  the  principles  of  the 
Charter, the norms of international law and respect for 
sovereignty,  territorial  integrity,  good-neighbourliness 
and mutual trust. The embargo imposed by the United 
States  of  America  against  Cuba  undoubtedly  runs 
counter to those principles and  raises many questions. 
How can a country put up obstacles to the freedom of 
commerce  of  one  of 
it 
continuously calls for nations to trade freely? How can 
a  country  impose  limits  on  the  right  of  its  people  to 
travel  when  it  strongly  advocates  the  freedom  of 
movement? The Non-Aligned Movement is bewildered 
by those apparent contradictions and believes that they 
should be promptly rectified. 

To that end, the United States should once and for 
all end its embargo against Cuba. It is the longest and 
toughest system of sanctions that the United States has 
ever applied against any country throughout its history. 
This is not only the demand of Cuba or of the members 
of the Non-Aligned Movement, as clearly expressed by 
the 
their  heads  of  State  and  Government  at 
its  neighbours  when 
2 

10-60252 


Movement’s  fifteenth  summit  conference  held 
in 
Sharm el-Sheikh, Egypt, in July 2009; it is the demand 
of 187 countries of the United Nations, which last year 
voted  in  favour  of  resolution  64/6,  the  eighteenth 
resolution to be adopted by the Assembly on the issue. 
We  once  again  urge  the  United  States  to  immediately 
and 
fully  comply  with  all  General  Assembly 
resolutions  calling  for  the  immediate  end  of  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
against Cuba. 

I  am  sure  that  members  will  agree  with  me  that 
there  is  no  need  for  a  detailed  exposé  of  the  damage 
that the embargo is causing to the economic and social 
development of Cuba and to the welfare of its people. 
We  are  all  aware  of  the  detrimental  repercussions  of 
the embargo, not only on the financial, banking, trade, 
investment and tourism sectors of the Cuban economy 
but  also  on  health,  nutrition,  water  quality,  education 
and  culture.  The  evidence  on  the  ground  is  a  stark 
reminder  of  what  the  embargo  has  done  to  Cuba. 
Furthermore,  this  unilateral  blockade  has  an  extended 
effect  on  companies  and  citizens  from  third  countries. 
It  thus  violates  the  sovereign  rights  of  many  other 
countries.  The  Non-Aligned  Movement  reiterates  its 
deep  concern  over  the  widening  of  the  extraterritorial 
nature  of  the  embargo,  which  we  consider  an  added 
argument in favour of the prompt elimination of those 
unjustified sanctions. 

The  Chair  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  has 
stood  here  before  the  Assembly  year  after  year  and 
urged the United States to remain true to the words that 
the  founding  fathers  of  the  United  Nations  clearly 
inscribed  in  the  Charter  by  taking  the  necessary  steps 
to swiftly lift the embargo it is imposing against Cuba. 
In  a  period  increasingly  characterized  by  international 
cooperation to address challenges to our very existence 
and  to  ensure  the  welfare  of  our  peoples,  maintaining 
the embargo seems to be part of an era long gone. The 
United  States  Administration  should  now  more  than 
ever  match 
its  statements  about  openness  and 
engagement  with  the  outside  world  to  actions  that 
would  be  welcomed  by  the  international  community, 
which  will  soon  vote  in  favour  of  the  draft  resolution 
on  the  necessity  of  ending  the  embargo  on  Cuba 
(A/65/L.3). The Non-Aligned Movement will continue 
to  send  this  message  to  the  United  States:  end  the 
blockade  now.  I  express  the expectation  that  this  time 
our call will not go unheard. 
A/65/PV.36
the  necessity  of  ending 
Mr.  Bowler  (Malawi):  It  is  with  great  pleasure 

that  I  address  the  General Assembly.  Let  me  join  my 
colleague who spoke before me to add Malawi’s voice 
and  that  of  the  Group  of  African  States  to  the  call 
regarding 
the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba, which has been 
on the United Nations agenda for the past 18 years. 

Speaking  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African 
States,  the  continent  of  Africa  and  as  Chair  of  the 
African Union, I  reiterate  the decision  of the fifteenth 
Summit  of  the  African  Union  Heads  of  State  and 
Government,  which  met  in  Kampala,  Uganda,  on 
27 July  2010.  On  taking  a  decision  on  the  issue  of 
sanctions  on  Cuba,  the African  Union  called  upon  the 
Government of the United States of America to remove 
the long-standing and unjustifiable economic and trade 
embargo  imposed  on  the  Republic  of  Cuba,  thereby 
enabling  that  country  to  enjoy  all  the  legitimate 
prospects for its sustained development, which is long 
overdue. 

In  his  address  before  a  plenary  meeting  of  the 
General  Assembly  on  23  September  2010,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Bingu Wa  Mutharika,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Malawi  and  Chairman  of  the  African 
Union,  stated  categorically  that  sanctions  have  caused 
great  economic  hardship,  especially  for  the  poor  and 
vulnerable  in  targeted  countries,  including  Cuba.  On 
behalf  of  the  African  Union,  he  challenged  those 
concerned 
to  promote  social  progress  and  better 
standards  of  life,  as  set  forth  in  the  Preamble  to  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  We  in  Africa  believe 
that it is now time to give dialogue a chance and allow 
Cuba to continue to effectively contribute its fair share 
to  global  development,  and  the  United  States  should 
lift its long-standing embargo. 

The  countries  of Africa,  like  the  majority  of  the 
countries and Member States of the United Nations, as 
can be seen from the voting trend over the years in the 
General Assembly, are of the view that it is high time 
that  the  embargo  on  the  people  of  Cuba  were  lifted, 
considering that it has now been 50 years since it was 
imposed  on  the  innocent  people  of  that  country. 
Children  born  after  1960,  who  are  now  men  and 
women,  have  not  known  anything  else  except  the 
embargo  on  this  beautiful  country  that  has  so  much 
potential and goodwill. 
10-60252 

3 
continue 
to 
reiterate 
itself  with 
the  African  Union  have 
the  General  Assembly  on  behalf  of 
A/65/PV.36 

It  is  time  for  change.  Now  is  the  time.  The 

African  Group  and 
the 
confidence that President  Obama’s Administration can 
and should bring this change. Once again, the African 
Group,  the African  Union  and  indeed  Malawi  call  for 
the  immediate  lifting  of  the  embargo  on  beautiful 
Cuba. 
Ms.  Bethel  (Bahamas):  I  have  the  honour  to 

the 
address 
the  Caribbean  Community 
14 member  States  of 
(CARICOM),  which  also  aligns 
the 
statements  made  by  the  representative  of Yemen,  who 
spoke on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, and by 
the representative of Egypt, who spoke on behalf of the 
Non-Aligned Movement. 
As we have done in the past, CARICOM member 

States 
their  unequivocal 
opposition  to  the  United  States  imposition  of  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba,  which  has  been  opposed  by  the  overwhelming 
majority  of  the  international  community  for  the  past 
18 consecutive  years.  The  unilateral  imposition  of 
extraterritorial laws on third States is contrary to both 
the letter and the spirit of  the United Nations Charter. 
The  embargo  itself  runs  counter  to  the  principles  of 
multilateralism, international law, sovereignty and free 
trade, which this body traditionally champions. 

The  stubborn  persistence  of  the  embargo  is 
apparently  impervious  to  the  sustained  chorus  of 
international  criticism  or  to  the  logic  of  a  world  that 
has  changed  immeasurably  over  the  past  four  and  a 
half decades since the imposition of the blockade. The 
embargo has now outlived the Cold War by 19 years. It 
has  outlasted  the  terms  of  eight  Presidents  of  the 
United States and that of Cuban President Fidel Castro. 
Over  70  per  cent  of  Cubans  alive  today  were  born 
under the embargo. CARICOM considers the embargo 
an anachronism that has succeeded only in contributing 
to the suffering of generations of ordinary Cubans and 
is  unnecessarily 
the 
United  States  and  Cuba.  It  serves  no  justifiable  legal, 
political or moral purpose in the twenty-first century. 

The punitive  embargo is of particular  concern to 
CARICOM,  which  shares  a  history,  culture  and 
sisterhood  with  the  people  of  Cuba.  Cuba  is  the  most 
populous State of the Caribbean region and an integral 
part of the pan Caribbean process. Caribbean ties with 
Cuba  have  historical  significance,  cemented  by  years 
tensions  between 
increasing 

through  a  wide 
infrastructure  and  human 
of  active  cooperation  at  various  levels.  The  member 
to  maintain  close 
States  of  CARICOM  continue 
relations  with  Cuba 
range  of 
programmes  of  cooperation  in  areas  including  trade, 
health  care, 
resource 
development.  In  many  ways,  our  future  regional 
development depends upon our collective advancement 
and progress. In that context, we view the embargo not 
just  as  a  punitive  act  against  Cuba  but  as  an 
impediment to our shared regional development. 

This year’s report of the Secretary-General on the 
implementation  of  resolution  64/6  (A/65/83),  like 
previous reports on this matter, outlines responses from 
an overwhelming majority of Member States that share 
a  common  perspective  as  to  the  continued  unilateral 
embargo  against  Cuba.  Indeed,  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General demonstrates that the embargo even 
affects the manner in which organs and agencies of the 
United  Nations  system  carry  out  their  work  in  Cuba. 
CARICOM  States  therefore  reaffirm  the  positions  of 
the  Group  of  77  and  China  and  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement  in  opposing  such  unilateral  actions.  We 
maintain the position that constructive engagement and 
peaceful  negotiations  remain 
the  only  acceptable 
means for advancing long-term peace stability. 

The annual resolution, which has been repeatedly 
adopted  by  the  General  Assembly,  also  constitutes  a 
blot  on  the  credibility  and  efficacy  of  the  United 
Nations. There is probably no single issue on which the 
United  Nations  has  made  such  sustained,  strong  and 
unambiguous  pronouncements.  Yet 
the  embargo 
continues,  in  the  face  of  overwhelming  international 
reproach. CARICOM believes that the President of the 
additional 
General  Assembly 
mechanisms 
the 
resolution. The continued  disregard  for  the will of the 
General Assembly will only complicate the President’s 
stated goal of improving the role of the United Nations 
in matters of global governance. 
The  significance  of  the  embargo  on  the  Cuban 

economy  continues 
to 
CARICOM. The humanitarian impact on the people of 
Cuba, especially in the area of health care and food, is 
especially saddening. The inability of Cuba to acquire 
necessary medical equipment, spare parts and the latest 
generation  medications  because  of 
the  embargo 
continues  to  affect  the  health-care  system,  where 
treatment remains free of charge to the Cuban people. 
should 
to  operationalize 
explore 
the  words  of 
to  be  of  great  concern 
4 

10-60252 
equipment 
and  heavy 
starting  with 
regarding  origin  and 



With the strengthening and more frequent storms 
and hurricanes wrought by climate change and Cuba’s 
geographic susceptibility to these natural disasters, the 
unacceptable  humanitarian  impact  of  the  embargo 
becomes  even  more  acute.  Additionally,  construction 
materials 
are  becoming 
increasingly  inaccessible  to  Cuba  because  of  stringent 
rules 
restrictions  against 
corporations  based  outside  of  the  United  States.  The 
negative effects on the Cuban economy and its growth 
are  obvious  and  tangible.  The  embargo  has  now  cost 
Cuba almost $100 billion since it was imposed in 1962. 

It is remarkable that, even as Cuba struggles with 
the  recent  unfortunate  string  of  natural  disasters  and 
the continued impacts of the global economic crisis, it 
continues  to  assist  other  nations  in  the  developing 
world, 
immediate  Caribbean 
neighbours.  Thousands  of  Caribbean  students  have 
attended Cuban universities without charge. Thousands 
have  received  free  surgery  and  medical  assistance  in 
Cuba. And  thousands  more  have  been  treated  in  their 
home countries by Cuban doctors and nurses. We have 
benefited  from  technical  expertise,  capacity-building 
programmes,  infrastructure  assistance  and  from  the 
selfless generosity of the Cuban people. The people of 
Cuba have threatened no one, and neither the embargo 
nor its deleterious side effects has prevented them from 
continually  extending  a  hand  of  friendship  and 
solidarity, even across ideological divides. 

Given Cuba’s peaceful, generous and cooperative 
international  stance,  it  should  not  be  isolated  or 
in 
excluded 
and 
hemispheric  processes.  CARICOM 
its 
unwavering  support  for  the  right  of  the  Cuban  people 
to  self-determination,  in  a  manner  beneficial  to  their 
social  and  economic development. We  call once  again 
for the end to an embargo that has preserved a state of 
tension  between 
two  neighbouring  countries  and 
generated concern, disquiet and discomfort throughout 
the Caribbean. 

CARICOM  States  continue  to  enjoy  friendly 
relations with both Cuba and the United States. Those 
two neighbours, a mere 90 miles apart, have produced 
great  scholars,  scientists  and  global  leaders.  The  two 
countries  possess  proud  and  noble  histories,  and  are 
populated  by  friendly,  open  and  loving  peoples.  As 
such,  in  spite  of  a  long  history  of  dashed  hopes, 
CARICOM  continues  to  believe  that  a  new  beginning 
regional 
reiterates 
participation 
its 
from 
A/65/PV.36
in 
the 
the 
relationship  between 
the  draft  resolution  on 
is  possible 
Governments of Cuba and the United States. 

However, we consider the  lifting of the  embargo 
to  be  a  prerequisite  of  any  meaningful  rapprochement 
between the two countries, not a negotiated end result. 
While there have been some recent positive indications 
of  flexibility,  there  have  also  been  reminders  of 
unilateral rigidity. 

We  remain  guardedly  optimistic  that  the  United 
States  recent  recommitment  to  multilateralism  will 
result  in  an  increased  willingness  to  consider  the 
opinions  and  concerns  of  its  global  friends  and 
partners.  On  this  issue,  global  opinion  can  hardly  be 
conveyed  in  a  more  convincing  or  consistent  manner. 
As such, our faith in the recent pronouncements of the 
United  States  Government  carries  with 
it  an 
expectation  that  these  few  remaining  historical  and 
unilateral wrongs will be righted expeditiously. 
It  is  within  this  context  that  CARICOM  States 

unstintingly  support 
the 
necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba (A/65/L.3). 
Mrs. Dunlop (Brazil) (spoke in Spanish): I have 

the honour to speak on behalf of the member States of 
the  Southern  Common  Market  (MERCOSUR)  and 
Venezuela, a State that is in the process of joining the 
bloc.  The  associated  States  of  Bolivia,  Chile, 
Colombia, Ecuador and Peru align themselves with this 
statement. 

First  of  all,  I  would  like  to  express  a  warm 
welcome  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez 
Parrilla, Cuba’s Minister for Foreign Affairs. 
MERCOSUR  was  founded  on  the  principles  of 

solidarity, 
interdependence  and  good-neighbourly 
relations. We believe that tolerance is the basis for the 
historic  convergence  in  our  continent  of  peoples  from 
every corner of the world. We are joined with our Latin 
American  neighbours  by  the  desire  to  live  in  peace, 
promote  mutual 
the 
independence,  equality  and  sovereignty  of  States  and 
promote  respect  for  international  law.  These  ideals 
have  historically  guided  the  relationship  among  Latin 
American States and societies and are enshrined in the 
charter of the Organization of American States. 
understanding, 
defend 
10-60252 

5 
We 
on 
law, 
reject 
principle 
international 
the  rules  of 
A/65/PV.36 


In  that  regard,  we  have  welcomed  efforts  and 
decisions taken last year, including the easing of travel 
restrictions,  the  removal  of  limits  on  remittances  and 
the  relaxation  of  conditions  for  sending  packages. 
However,  it  is  nevertheless  unfortunate  that  further 
steps  in  that  direction  have  not  been  applied  recently, 
that  the  embargo  against  Cuba  continues  unchanged 
and  that  conditions  are  once  again  being  placed  along 
the path towards greater openness and direct dialogue. 

MERCOSUR  and  its  associated  States  believe 
that  the  embargo  against  Cuba  is  contrary  to  the 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations and that 
it  contravenes 
in 
particular  in  relation  to  the  equality  of  States,  the 
principle of non-interference in internal affairs and the 
peaceful  solution  of  conflicts.  Moreover,  the  embargo 
is  contrary  to  the  principles  of  justice  and  human 
rights, for it punishes an entire innocent population for 
no apparent reason. 

and 
extraterritorial measures that cause irreparable harm to 
the  welfare  of  peoples  and  obstruct  the  process  of 
regional integration. 
We  once  again  reaffirm  our  unequivocal  support 

for 
the  draft 
(A/65/L.3). 
MERCOSUR  and  its  associate  States  reiterate  their 
commitment to multilateralism as a legitimate tool for 
resolving disputes and as  an effective  way to promote 
international  cooperation  and  understanding  among 
peoples. 
The economic, commercial and financial embargo 

against  Cuba  is  just  another  example  of  an  outdated 
policy  that  does  not  belong  in  today’s  world.  By 
adopting  the  draft  resolution  before  us,  the  General 
Assembly  will  bear  witness  once  again  to  its  resolute 
political  will  in  defence  of  the  ideals  of  freedom, 
solidarity and respect for sovereignty and international 
law. 
Ms.  Rovirosa  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  For 

19  consecutive  years,  the  Government  of  Mexico  has 
come  to  this  forum  to  reiterate  its  rejection  of  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba  and  to  reaffirm  its  opposition  to  the  use  of 
coercive  actions  that  have  no  legal  foundation  in  the 
United Nations Charter. 
resolution  before  us 
unilateral 

to 
its 
reaffirm 

In 1992, the Government of the Republic of Cuba 
submitted  a  draft  resolution  for  consideration  and 
adoption  by  the  General Assembly  in  order  to  put  an 
end to the embargo imposed by the Government of the 
United  States.  Ever  since,  Mexico  has  come  to  this 
forum 
long-standing  position  of 
principle  that  any  kind  of  political,  economic  or 
military  sanctions  to  be  imposed  on  States  can  flow 
only  from  decisions  or  recommendations  made  by  the 
General  Assembly  or  the  Security  Council  once  they 
have  determined  that  such  actions  are  necessary  in 
accordance  with  the  United  Nations  Charter  and 
international law. 

Mexico  believes  that  unilateral  measures  applied 
in  an  extraterritorial  fashion  on  third-party  countries 
have  severe  humanitarian  consequences, 
in  open 
contradiction  of  the  goals  that  supposedly  drive  them. 
Moreover, such measures also signal the abandonment 
of  diplomacy  and  dialogue  as  appropriate  ways  of 
resolving disputes among States. 

Multilateralism, respect for international law and 
for  the  rules  and  principles  that  regulate  coexistence 
between nations, as well as respectful dialogue remain 
the  best  way  to  resolve  disputes,  guarantee  peaceful 
coexistence  among  States  and  ensure  an  international 
climate of peace. 
Various organs and entities of the United Nations 

the 
system  have  noted  the  negative  impact  that 
embargo  has  on  Cuba’s  economic  and 
social 
development,  as  evident  in  the  economic,  commercial 
and financial transactions that this country undertakes. 
They have also noted the damaging effects on sensitive 
areas  that  have  a  direct  impact  on  the  lives  of  Cuba’s 
people,  as  well  as  the  indirect  repercussions  on  third-
impossibility  of 
party  countries  owing 
interacting  with  Cuba  when 
to  many 
economic and social activities. 

That  is  why  Mexico  has  always  supported  all 
initiatives against the embargo and unilateral measures 
in various forums, at the United Nations and the United 
Nations Conference on Trade and Development as well 
as  in  others  such  as  the  Organization  of  American 
States,  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  Economic 
System,  the  Ibero  American  Summit  and  the  Rio 
Group. We will continue to support Cuba’s inclusion in 
global  economic,  commercial  and  financial  dialogue 
and  trade  mechanisms  in  line  with  that  country’s  own 
it  comes 
the 
to 
6 

10-60252 
that 
to  foster 


desire  and  sovereign  decisions,  so  as 
cooperation and development. 

The Government of Mexico bases its bilateral and 
multilateral  relations  on  the  overarching  principles  of 
international  law  that  govern  peaceful  and  civilized 
coexistence  among  sovereign  States  in  the  modern 
world.  Those  principles  have  preserved  the  same 
solidarity  and  continuity  over  time  in  the  relations 
between  Mexico  and  Cuba,  two  States  that  have 
maintained steadfast historical ties in an atmosphere of 
renewed  trust  and  unfailingly  following  the  purposes 
and  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations. 

Based on what I have said here, Mexico reiterates 
that  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  blockade 
imposed by the United States of America on Cuba must 
come  to  end,  given  that  the  embargo  is  based  on  a 
policy  that,  extended  for  almost  half  a  century,  has 
affected the people of Cuba in a silent, systematic and 
cumulative  manner.  Mexico  believes 
the 
observance  of  international  law  and  the  rules  and 
principles  governing  coexistence  among  nations,  as 
well  as  respectful  dialogue  irrespective  of  imbalances 
or  differences,  are  necessary  tools  for  overcoming 
differences  between  States  and  for  ensuring  a  climate 
of international peace. 

From our own experience we know that societies 
evolve 
their  own 
circumstances,  and  not  as  the  result  of  arbitrary  or 
coercive  measures  imposed  from  outside.  In  the  light 
of  this,  the  Mexican  Government  again  reiterates  its 
firm  commitment 
to  contributing  actively  and 
decisively to the rule of international law as it pertains 
to this item on the General Assembly’s agenda. We will 
support  the  draft  resolution  (A/65/L.3)  that  has  been 
proposed at this session. 
Mr.  Wang  Min  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  At 

the  outset,  I  would  like  to  welcome  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  submitted  under  this  agenda  item 
(A/65/83).  The  Chinese  delegation  associates  itself 
with  the  statement  made  by  the  representative  of 
Yemen on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 
For  18  consecutive  years,  by  an  overwhelming 

majority, 
adopted 
resolutions urging all countries, in compliance with the 
United  Nations  Charter  and 
the  principles  of 
international  law,  to  repeal  or  invalidate  all  laws  and 
measures  with  extraterritorial  effect  that  compromise 
the  General  Assembly  has 
according 
change 
and 
to 
A/65/PV.36
financial 
rights  and 
the 
the  sovereignty  of  other  States,  undermine 
legitimate 
interests  of  entities  and 
individuals  under  the  jurisdiction  of  those  States  and 
affect the freedom of trade and navigation. 

Regrettably,  however,  those  resolutions  have  not 
been  effectively  implemented  over  the  years,  and  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba  imposed  by  the  country  concerned  is  yet  to  be 
lifted.  This  constitutes  a  serious  violation  of  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter,  adversely 
affects  normal  commercial  and 
trade  exchanges 
between  Cuba  and  other  countries  and  impedes  the 
operations  of  the  agencies  of  the  United  Nations 
system  in  Cuba.  What  is  more,  it  also  seriously 
undermines  the  Cuban  people’s  rights  to  survival  and 
development. 

The information obtained from Governments and 
international  organizations  in  the  Secretary-General’s 
report  shows  that  over  the  past  year  the  economic 
embargo  against  Cuba  has  remained  substantially 
unchanged.  It  thus  continues  to  inflict  enormous 
economic  and 
losses  on  Cuba,  which 
immeasurably  limit  the  Cuban  people’s  efforts  to 
eradicate  poverty,  promote  economic  and  social 
development and achieve the Millennium Development 
Goals. The international community is now faced with 
multiple  serious  challenges  posed  by  the  financial, 
food  and  energy  crises,  as  well  as  climate  change, 
making the embargo and sanctions against Cuba all the 
more unreasonable. 

independent  and  peaceful 
foreign policy, and is committed to developing friendly 
relations  with  all  countries  on  the  basis  of  the  five 
principles of peaceful coexistence. We are of the view 
that  every  sovereign  State  is  entitled  to  independently 
choose  its  own  suitable  social  system  and  path  to 
development.  No  country  has  the  right  to  unilaterally 
impose  military,  political,  economic  or  other  forms  of 
sanctions  on  other  countries.  Experience  shows  that 
sanctions usually fail to achieve their expected results; 
on the contrary, they may end up victimizing civilians, 
in  particular  the  most  vulnerable  groups,  such  as 
women and children. 

the 
democratization  of  international  relations  have  taken 
root  in  people’s  hearts,  while  openness,  cooperation, 
mutual benefit and win-win progress have become the 
consensus  of 
international  community.  When 
today’s  world,  multilateralism  and 
China  pursues  an 
the 
In 
10-60252 

7 

(spoke 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  by 
A/65/PV.36 

disputes  arise,  dialogue  on  an  equal  footing,  with 
friendly  consultation,  represents  the  best  path  to  a 
settlement.  The  Chinese  Government  has  always 
maintained that countries should develop their relations 
in  compliance  with  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
United Nations Charter. 

It  is  always  our  hope  that  in  State-to-State 
relations,  dialogue  will  replace  confrontation,  and 
engagement  and exchange will replace embargoes and 
sanctions. The  Chinese  Government  urges  the  country 
concerned  to  terminate  its  economic,  commercial  and 
financial embargo against Cuba as soon as possible. In 
this connection, China will support the draft resolution 
(A/65/L.3) that has been submitted by Cuba under this 
agenda item. 
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

in  Spanish):  The  Bolivarian 
Venezuela) 
Republic of Venezuela aligns itself with the statements 
made  this  morning  by  the  representative  of  Egypt  on 
behalf  of 
the 
representative of Yemen on behalf of the Group  of 77 
and China and by the representative of Brazil on behalf 
of  the  Southern  Common  Market.  I  would  like, 
however,  to  raise  the  voice  of  my  country  at  this 
historic moment. 

During  the  sixty-fourth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  the  overwhelming  majority  of  Member 
States  voted 
the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  blockade  that  has  lasted  a 
half  century  and  seeks  to  limit  the  right  of  the  Cuban 
people  to  decide  their  own  destiny.  Those  countries 
forcefully  call  for  respect  of  the  sovereignty  and  self-
determination of peoples and strongly condemn threats 
to the political independence of States, as inconsistent 
with the principles of the United Nations Charter. 

Will  the  imperialist  Government  of  the  United 
States  continue  to  ignore  the  will  of  this  Assembly, 
which has  repeatedly  condemned the blockade  against 
our  sister  Republic  of  Cuba?  In  reaffirming  its  long-
standing  commitment  to  the  values  of  humanism  and 
solidarity  among  peoples,  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela  rejects  the  aggression  against  the  Cuban 
people,  which  undermines  the  peaceful  coexistence  of 
nations and international law. 

The change of administration in the United States 
generated  great  expectations  for  a  new  policy  that 
would  respect  the  sovereignty  of  nations.  There  is 
nothing,  however,  that  suggests  that  there  have  been 
in  favour  of  ending 
in 
to  be 
their  subsidiaries 
in  force.  Through 
substantial changes in the foreign policy of the United 
States, in particular with regard to the blockade against 
Cuba.  The  United  States  Government  continues  to 
ignore  the  voices  of  the  peoples  of  the  world,  which 
demand the end of that genocidal policy as a violation 
of the most basic human rights. 

It  is  noteworthy  that  the  Torricelli  and  Helms-
Burton  Acts,  which  prevent  Cuban  trade  with  United 
third 
States  companies  and 
countries,  continue 
the 
extraterritorial application of United States legislation, 
the  blockade  affects  the  legitimate  interests  of  any 
sovereign  State  that  legitimately  decides  to  become  a 
business partner of the Republic of Cuba. 

The  devastating  collateral  damage  inflicted  each 
day  on  the  brotherly  people  of  the  island  by  the 
blockade  policy  is  unjustifiable.  As  noted  by  the 
American Association  for  World  Health,  the  blockade 
would cause a massive humanitarian disaster in Cuba if 
that nation did not have an extraordinary public health 
system. The blockade against Cuba has diverse impacts 
on the daily lives of women and men, children and the 
elderly. It manifests itself harshly in the way it affects 
the quality of life of children with acute lymphoblastic 
leukaemia, who must do without the standard treatment 
for  this  disease.  The  blockade  also  makes  it  difficult 
for people to enjoy their housing rights. It hinders the 
import  of  building  materials  needed  to  replace  and 
repair  the  huge  number  of  buildings  damaged  by 
hurricanes. The blockade causes millions in losses each 
year  in  Cuba’s  basic  industries,  sugar,  steelwork  and 
tourism. 

In  short,  the  blockade  represents  a  repeated  and 
unilateral  denial  by  a  signatory  to  the  United  Nations 
Charter of the right to development of another Member 
State  and  its  people,  without  the  aggrieved  State  ever 
having  committed  aggression  of  any  kind  against  the 
aggressor  State.  And  what  is  the  reason  for  the 
recurring  hostility  against  the  Cuban  people?  The 
answer was given by Ernesto Che Guevara on 9 April 
1961,  when  he  said  that  the  heroic  Cuban  people  had 
risen  up  against  the  “despotic  rule  of  imperialism, 
which crushes national identity, insults patriotic feeling 
and colonizes the economy”. The heroism of the Cuban 
people  is,  therefore,  an  example  of  the  struggle  for 
dignity  and  sovereignty  of  nations.  The  imperialists 
have  not  been  able  and  will  not  be  able  to  break  that 
patriotic spirit. 
8 

10-60252 
the 
Despite 
strongly 
embraces 
the  criminal  blockade, 



the  Cuban 
Government  and  people  have  provided  extraordinary 
support  to  the  plans  and  programmes  developed  in 
Venezuela  to  achieve  social  justice.  The  Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela  wishes  to  express  its  gratitude 
for that invaluable solidarity. 

This  is  a  special  day  at  the  United  Nations.  We 
are  discussing  an  issue  of  cardinal  importance  to  the 
peoples  of  the  world.  The  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela 
sovereignty, 
independence and dignity of nations, and therefore we 
strongly  support  the  draft  resolution  presented  by  our 
sister  Republic  of  Cuba  (A/65/L.3),  which  again 
demands  the  suspension  of  the  economic,  commercial 
and financial embargo imposed by the United States on 
Cuba. 
Mr.  Khazee  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  The 

Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  subscribes  to  the  statements 
made on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement and the 
Group  of  77  and  China  on 
the  subject  under 
consideration. We would also like to cordially welcome 
the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of 
Cuba to this meeting. Many of the rights of nations and 
people are of an economic and social nature. Attempts 
to deprive people and countries of those rights infringe 
on 
therefore 
illegitimate.  Indeed, 
the  main  feature  of 
sanctions as we know them today. 

Economic  blockades  and  sanctions  have  to  be 
viewed  as  illegitimate  for  at  least  the  following 
reasons:  First,  there  is  no  single  case  where  certain 
Powers  have  not  been  behind  economic  sanctions 
against  developing  countries  or  territories.  Sanctions 
have  turned  out  to  be  a  tool,  not  to  spur  international 
peace and security but to impose hegemonic intentions 
of big Powers against other countries and populations. 
Therefore, the imposition or prolongation of sanctions 
or their extension against any State under the pretext of 
securing  international  peace  and  security  but  with  the 
real aim of achieving the political objectives of one or 
a  few  States  is  deplorable.  Secondly,  worst  of  all, 
sanctions  always  end  up  targeting  the  daily  lives  of 
ordinary people. They have a dramatic impact on rights 
recognized in the International Covenant on Economic, 
Social  and  Cultural  Rights.  For  instance,  they  often 
cause significant disruption in the distribution of food, 
pharmaceuticals and sanitation supplies, jeopardize the 
quality  of  food  and  the  availability  of  clean  drinking 
water,  severely  interfere  with  the  functioning  of  basic 
rights  and  are 
is 
their  basic  human 
that 
A/65/PV.36
innocent  civilians 
sanctions  have  been 
The  victimization  of 
health and education systems, and undermine the right 
to work. 

in 
instances  where 
imposed, 
including  ostensibly  legitimate  ones,  remains  a  matter 
of  serious  concern  and  dismay.  There 
is  ample 
evidence  that  sanctions,  first  and  foremost,  put  the 
economic  growth  and  prosperity  of  people  in  peril. 
They  are  simply  misguidedly  punitive.  Thirdly, 
notwithstanding all the harm that sanctions cause, they 
have also proven to be futile. There is no strong proof 
that  independent  countries  compromise  their  revered 
national interests and yield to the antagonistic wills of 
hegemonic  Powers  because  of  sanctions.  Fourthly,  the 
argument  that  sanctions  are  a  better  option  than  more 
forceful  measures  has  also  proven  to  be  irrelevant. 
the 
Certain  Powers  are  not  concerned  about 
consequences  of  punitive  measures,  nor  do 
they 
conform in their actions to the provisions of the United 
Nations  Charter. They  make  their  cases  independently 
of  the  concerns  of  the  international  community  and 
tend  to  misuse  the  available  means  in  the  Charter  to 
address  their  narrowly  defined  interests.  Whenever 
they  deem  it  necessary,  they  without  fail  resort  to 
force,  with  or  without  first  exercising  sanctions  or 
other non-violent measures and with or without United 
Nations  approval.  Sanctions  will  not  stop  them  from 
exercising  force,  should 
it 
desirable. 

Yet, the most unjustifiable and deplorable form of 
sanctions is the imposition of unilateral blockades and 
extraterritorial  application  of  domestic  laws  by  one 
State, which  happens, unsurprisingly, to be the United 
States of America. Such actions against others have an 
effect  not  only  on  the  population  under  sanctions  but 
also  on  the  interests  of  the  third  parties,  who  are 
disproportionately  and  unreasonably  being  punished. 
Numerous  international  documents  have  asked  for  the 
swift  invalidation  of  all  such  measures.  This  Hall  has 
witnessed  during  the  past  19  years  the  overwhelming 
support 
and 
countries — coming from every region and part of the 
world — to the call made through 18 resolutions so far 
to  annul  the  inhumane  and  futile  measures  imposed 
against the Government and people of Cuba. 

Indeed,  one  may  wonder  what  more  could  be 
done to convince the United States to lift the economic 
blockade. What more could be said to argue that those 
illegal  measures  flagrantly  violate  the  United  Nations 
themselves  find 
international 
community 
they 
of 
the 
10-60252 

9 

in  so  many 
A/65/PV.36 

Charter,  the  rule  of  international  law,  the  multilateral 
trading  system,  the  norms  and  principles  governing 
relations among States, as well as the clear will of the 
international 
community?  That  will  has  been 
unequivocally  expressed 
resolutions 
adopted by this body. 

The economic, commercial and financial embargo 
imposed by the United States against Cuba, which has 
lasted  for  decades,  serves  no  purpose  other  than  to 
inflict tremendous hardship and suffering on the people 
of Cuba, especially women and children. The embargo 
has  seriously  jeopardized  the  legitimate  rights  and 
interests  of  Cuba  and  other  States.  The  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba  runs 
counter  to  the  principles  of  international  law  and 
contradicts  the  letter  and  spirit  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations.  Such  measures  continue  to  adversely 
affect  the  living  conditions  and  human  rights  of  the 
Cuban  people  and  to  hamper  the  efforts  of  the  Cuban 
Government  to  achieve  its  development  goals  —  in 
particular  the  eradication  of  poverty  and  hunger  and 
the  promotion  of  health  and  education  —  as 
indispensable means for achieving economic and social 
development. 

The Islamic Republic of Iran strongly rejects and 
opposes  the  application  of  unilateral  economic  and 
trade  measures  imposed  by  one  State  against  another, 
as well as the extraterritorial application and effects of 
national legislation on the  sovereignty of other States. 
We  oppose  and  condemn  such  measures  and  laws  and 
their  continued  application.  We  will  do  everything  to 
effectively  thwart  them  and  urge  other  States  to  do 
likewise  by  refraining  from  recognizing,  adopting  or 
implementing  extraterritorial  or  unilateral  coercive 
measures  or 
including  unilateral  economic 
sanctions,  other  intimidating  measures  and  arbitrary 
travel  restrictions  that  seek  to  exert  pressure  on  other 
sovereignty  and 
countries  — 
independence  and 
trade  and 
investment  and  preventing  them  from  exercising  their 
right to decide, by their own free will. 

The Islamic Republic of Iran shares the concerns 
of  the  Cuban  people  and  Government  and  therefore 
emphasizes  the  urgent  need  to  put  an  end  to  such 
measures against Cuba and other developing countries 
and  calls  for  the  full  implementation  of  the  relevant 
General Assembly resolutions. 
their 
freedom  of 
threatening 
their 
laws, 
and 
the 
financial 
the  continuation  of 
the  profound  will  of 

In  conclusion,  sanctions,  whoever  imposes  them 
under  whatever  pretext  or  disguise,  continue  to  be 
illegitimate, futile and misguidedly punitive. 
Mr.  Benmehidi  (Algeria):  Algeria  aligns  itself 

with  the  statements  made  by  the  representatives  of 
Egypt on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement and of 
Yemen  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China.  I 
would also like to warmly welcome His Excellency Mr. 
Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of Cuba. 
Algeria  would  like  to  reiterate  that  it  is  deeply 

the  economic, 
concerned  by 
commercial 
embargo  unilaterally 
imposed against Cuba by the United States of America 
for  nearly  half  a  century.  The  consecutive  annual 
adoption  by  almost  all  members  of  the  General 
Assembly of a resolution, virtually the same each year, 
calling  for  the  lifting  of  the  embargo  against  Cuba 
reflects 
international 
community  to  put  an  end  to  that  situation,  which  has 
lasted far too long. 

In  accordance  with  the  principles  of  its  foreign 
policy,  Algeria  has  always  condemned  the  imposition 
of extraterritorial applications of laws and all forms of 
coercive  economic  and  trade  measures,  such  as  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba,  which  contradicts  international  law  and  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.  Every  Member  State  should  respect  the 
principles  of  the  Charter,  including,  in  particular,  the 
sovereign  equality  of  States, 
integrity, 
non-intervention  and  non-interference  in  the  internal 
affairs of any other State. 

It  is  a  fact  that  that  blockade  is  causing  huge 
material loss and economic damage to Cuba. It is also 
negatively  affecting  the  well-being  of  the  Cuban 
people  on  a  daily  basis.  Those  consequences  are 
exacerbated by the adverse effects of the current global 
economic  and  financial  crisis,  which  have  seriously 
compromised  Cuba’s 
as 
highlighted  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
(A/65/83),  based  on 
information  provided  by 
134 Governments  and  25  organs  and  agencies  of  the 
United  Nations  system,  on  the  implementation  of 
resolution 64/6. 

It is important to recall the long-standing position 
of the Non-Aligned Movement on the issue, confirmed 
again at the fifteenth summit, which rejected the use of 
development 
territorial 
efforts, 
10 

10-60252 


economic  measures  of  coercion  and  extraterritorial 
applications  of  law  imposed  on  developing  countries. 
The  heads  of  State  and  Government  of 
the 
Non-Aligned Movement also urged the Government of 
the  United  States  of  America  to  put  an  end  to  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba,  in  strict  compliance  with  the  United  Nations 
General  Assembly  resolutions  on  that  issue,  adopted 
annually since 1992. 

Therefore,  it  is  with  conviction  that Algeria  will 
vote  in  favour  of  the  draft  resolution  submitted, 
A/65/L.3,  entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba”. 
Mr. Sangqu (South Africa): For almost 50 years, 

the  people  of  Cuba  have  suffered  as  a  result  of  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  blockade  by  the 
United  States  of America,  which  is  a  major  hindrance 
to the development of Cuba. That blockade constitutes 
a  violation  of  international  law,  and  its  imposition 
shows  disregard  for  the  noble  and  abiding  principles 
enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
international  community  has  consistently  opposed  the 
embargo  against  Cuba.  The  unity  with  which  the 
international community reacted to that embargo when 
it condemned it with a record vote of 187 to 3 in 2009 
is testimony to the  outright rejection of  that unilateral 
act, which has gone on for far too long and must come 
to an end. 

In  that  regard,  South  Africa  supports  the  draft 
resolution before us (A/65/L.3), entitled  “Necessity of 
ending 
financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against  Cuba”.  We  do  so  because  that  relentless  and 
unilateral  action  has  caused  untold  suffering  to  the 
people of Cuba. 

the 
statements delivered by the representatives of Egypt on 
behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  of  Yemen  on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China and of Malawi on 
behalf of the African Group. We also wish to extend a 
warm welcome to His Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodríguez 
Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba,  and, 
through  him,  our  fraternal  greetings  to  the  loving 
people of Cuba. 

For South Africa and its people, together with our 
entire  region,  we  continue  to  be  humbled  by  the 
historic  role  that  Cuba  played  in  our  liberation  and 
the  economic,  commercial  and 
itself  with 
My  delegation 
associates 
A/65/PV.36
freedom.  True  to  their  commitment  to  international 
solidarity,  justice,  freedom and  equality,  the  people  of 
Cuba did not stand by as spectators when others were 
oppressed.  For  that  reason,  we  owe  it  to  Cuba  and  its 
people to join the progressive forces of the world and 
unequivocally  condemn  the  continued  illegal  embargo 
imposed by the United States of America against Cuba. 

South Africa has repeatedly joined the majority of 
countries  in  expressing  its  disagreement  with  and 
opposition  to  the  embargo  imposed  by  the  United 
States against Cuba. In so doing, South Africa has been 
guided  by  the  basic  norms  of  international  law  and 
conduct  in  its  principled  support  for  the  need  to 
eliminate  punitive  economic  measures  as  a  means  of 
political  and  economic  coercion.  South  Africa  views 
the  continued  imposition  of  an  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba  as  a  violation  of 
the principle of the sovereign equality of States. 

In  spite  of  that  embargo,  the  Cuban  people  have 
extended  a  hand  of  friendship  and  solidarity  to  other 
people  around  the  world.  Cuba’s  outstanding  work  in 
the areas of health, education and biotechnology in the 
developing world, particularly in Africa, is recognized 
by the international community. South Africa and Cuba 
have maintained long-standing cordial relations, which 
continue to expand through increased cooperation on a 
wide range of issues, including economic, commercial 
and  financial  collaboration.  The  South  Africa-Cuba 
Joint  Consultative  Mechanism  and  the  South  Africa-
Cuba  Joint  Bilateral  Commission  continue  to  serve  as 
strategic  platforms  for  the  expression  of  our  strong 
bilateral relations. 

We  all,  without  exception,  acknowledged  the 
hardship that we and our respective peoples have faced 
after  the  onset  of  the  financial  crisis,  which  to  date 
continues  to  endure.  The  extremely  harsh  global 
financial and economic crisis, as well as the embargo, 
only worsen the fate of the Cuban people and stifle the 
outstanding contribution by Cuba to the economic and 
social  development  of  the  poor.  The  international 
community should, therefore, take meaningful steps to 
free  the  Cuban  people  from  the  devastating  effects  of 
the embargo. 

South Africa calls on the United States to end its 
unilateral isolation of Cuba. We urge the United States 
to  engage  in  a  meaningful  dialogue  with  Cuba.  We 
further  call  for  accelerated  action  to  dismantle  the 
unjust  sanctions  regime  against  Cuba.  Our  collective 
10-60252 

11 

the 
from 
Yet  again, 
recognizing 
A/65/PV.36 

message  should,  therefore,  be  loud  and  clear  to  the 
United  States,  namely,  that  it  should  end  its  embargo 
and sanctions. 

South  Africa  reiterates  its  support  for  the  draft 
resolution  before  us  today,  and  calls  on  all  States  to 
refrain 
the  unilateral  coercive 
measures  and  laws  that  defy  the  principles  of  the 
Charter and the norms of international law. 
Mr.  Kleib  (Indonesia):  In  contributing  to  the 

debate  on  agenda  item  41  concerning  the  necessity  of 
ending the embargo imposed against Cuba since 1961, 
the  delegation  of  Indonesia  wishes  to  associate  itself 
with  the  statement  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China 
delivered  earlier  by  the  representative  of  Yemen  and 
with  the  statement  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
delivered by the representative of Egypt. 

the  General  Assembly  has  been 
convened  to  consider  the  impact  of  the  50  year 
economic, commercial and financial embargo that was 
unilaterally imposed on Cuba during the long Cold War 
of 
twentieth  century.  Although  unilaterally 
imposed, the embargo has also impacted the economic 
and commercial relations of third countries. Much has 
changed  since  the  initial  imposition  of  the  embargo. 
The world of 2010 is very different from that of 1961. 
Even  with  the  impact  of  recent  crises  on  the  global 
economy,  nations  have  opted  to  work  together  to 
overcome the difficulties created by those crises. That 
testifies  to  the  fact  that  globalization  has  created  the 
conditions  for  true  global  solidarity  and  partnership 
among  nations.  The  embargo  against  Cuba  runs 
contrary to that spirit of unity and solidarity, which is 
taking root in the world today. 

Viewed  from  the  perspective  of  the  United 
Nations  Charter  and  international  law,  the  embargo 
lacks  fairness  and  respect  for  the  equality  that  should 
exist among and between sovereign States. The Charter 
is  clear  on  the  need  for  nations  to  develop  friendly 
relations  among  themselves.  It  is  equally  emphatic 
about the need for nations  to refrain from actions that 
will  threaten  the  political  independence  of  others  or 
lead  to  intervention  in  matters  that  are  essentially 
within the domestic jurisdiction of a particular State. 

The embargo infringes on those principles. It has 
a  sharp  political  edge,  which  undermines  relations 
between  the  main  parties.  Instead  of  a  dialogue  to 
resolve  differences,  what  we  have  is  an  unwanted 
stand-off that does not allow for an exchange of views 
respect 
principle 
its  right 
to normalize relations. Not only does the embargo give 
rise  to  political  complications,  but  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  hardships  that  it  causes  can 
hardly be justified on any humanitarian ground. It is a 
great burden for any developing country, whose people 
would  benefit  so  much  more  from  cooperation  than 
from confrontation. 

Indonesia  remains  steadfast  in  its  opposition  to 
the embargo imposed unilaterally against Cuba. While 
it  is  true  that  some  small  meaningful  changes  in  the 
embargo  have  occurred  in  recent  times,  such  as  the 
easing of travel restrictions to Cuba and the removal of 
obstacles  to  the  transfer  of  remittances,  the  preferred 
resolution to the dispute is certainly for the embargo to 
be  lifted  completely.  The  time  is  ripe  for  relations 
between  the  two  main  parties  to  be  transformed 
through constructive engagement. 

Lifting  the  embargo  would  also  be  in  keeping 
with  the  spirit  of  the  times.  It  would  demonstrate 
unambiguously 
of 
non-intervention,  as  embodied  in  the  United  Nations 
Charter and international law. Cuba would then be able 
to  exercise 
to  develop,  unhindered  by 
restrictions  to  its  trade  and  other  business  activities. 
The  tensions  that  now  exist  between  the  two  nations 
would also dissolve. 

It  is  Indonesia’s  hope  that  in  the  near  future  we 
will see a thawing of the frosty relations that now keep 
those  two  important  neighbouring  States  apart.  We 
believe that it is time for peaceful coexistence. 
Mr.  Beck  (Solomon  Islands):  I  take  the  floor  to 

speak  on  agenda  item  41,  “Necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by  the  United  States  of  America  against  Cuba”.  My 
delegation  begins  first  of  all  by  associating  this 
statement  with 
the 
representative of Yemen on behalf of the Group of 77. 

For  the  last  19  years,  resolutions  on  lifting  the 
51-year  embargo  on  Cuba  have  come  before  this 
Assembly.  Likewise, 
international  community 
annually  pronounces  on  the  resolution,  calling  for  the 
lifting  of  the  embargo.  The  embargo  continues  to  be 
cloaked in such an ideological suit that opportunities to 
relax and bring about its lifting continue to elude us. 

It  is  even  sadder  that  that  is  happening  between 
geographical neighbours. We continue to witness Cuba 
trying  to  adapt  to  the  challenge  of  living  under  trying 
statement  made 
the 
the 
for 
the 
by 
12 

10-60252 
into 
take  on 
the  embargo 


circumstances without asking for a lighter burden. We 
continue  to  be  deeply  touched  by  that,  as  new 
generations  born 
the 
responsibility  before  them  with  a  common  sense  of 
purpose. That testifies to a committed population, with 
a  host  of  approaches  aimed  at  cutting  up  the  huge 
challenge  into  bits  and  pieces  and  managing  those 
challenges within their own means. 

My  delegation  hopes  that  the  principle  of  good-
neighbourliness will win the day and that the people of 
our  partner  country,  the  United  States,  will  restore, 
renew,  revive,  reclaim  and  redeem  friendship  and 
respect  for  Cuba’s  sovereignty  within  the  letter  and 
spirit of the United Nations Charter. 

At the end of the day, it is people who remain at 
the centre of the Charter of the United Nations, which 
begins with the words “We the peoples”. We members 
of the United Nations must continue to give humanity a 
chance.  We  must  continue  to  do  what  is  necessary  in 
the name of peace and security and in the preservation 
of the rights of the Cuban people to development. The 
imposition  of  the  embargo  is  stuck  in  time,  and  we 
must  not  leave  it  to  time  or  chance  to  see  change. 
Rather, it is up to us, the Member States, to effect that 
change  by  calling  for  the  lifting  of  the  blockade.  Our 
action on that noble request is also a declaration of our 
character, our wish to reach out to all. 

Therefore, Solomon Islands closes by calling for 
the  unconditional  lifting  of  the  blockade  against  the 
Cuban  people  and  replacing  it  with  genuine  dialogue 
and  cooperation.  In 
the  spirit  of  friendship  and 
outreach  to  all,  we  call  for  carrying  out  that  humble 
request in the name of humanity. 
Mr. Raja (India): India associates itself with the 

statements  made  by  the  representatives  of  Yemen  on 
behalf of the  Group of 77  and China and of Egypt on 
behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement.  My  delegation 
would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  the 
comprehensive  report  on 
item  under 
consideration today (A/65/83). 

This is the nineteenth year in succession that this 
Assembly  has  been  deliberating  the  almost  five-
decade-old  economic,  commercial  and 
financial 
embargo  imposed  on  Cuba.  In  all  those  years,  this 
Assembly  has  repeatedly  rejected  the  imposition  of 
laws and regulations with an extraterritorial impact and 
all other forms of coercive economic measures, which 
the  agenda 
A/65/PV.36
freedom  of 
hurt the progress and prosperity of the people the world 
over. 

The  General  Assembly  has  also  called  upon  all 
States  to  respect  their  obligations  under  the  United 
Nations Charter and international law and to repeal and 
invalidate  laws  and  measures  that  have  extraterritorial 
effects on the sovereignty of other States and affect the 
legitimate  interests  of  entities  or  persons  under  their 
jurisdiction  and  on 
trade  and 
navigation.  Despite  the  repeated  calls  of  the  General 
Assembly,  its  resolutions  remain  unimplemented,  in 
contravention of world opinion. Such callous disregard 
of  the  will  of  the  United  Nations  undermines  the 
credibility of this body and weakens multilateralism. 

Meanwhile,  more  importantly,  the  Cuban  people 
continue to face the hardships induced by the embargo 
in their daily lives. The embargo and its extraterritorial 
aspects  continue  to  remain  in  full  force.  In  particular, 
domestic  United  States  laws,  such  as  the  Cuban 
Democracy Act  of  1992  and  the  Helms-Burton Act  of 
1996,  have  enhanced  the  extraterritorial  reach  of  the 
embargo, encompassing foreign companies and foreign 
subsidiaries of United States companies doing business 
with Cuba or Cuban entities. 

its 
extraterritorial  effects,  is  adversely  affecting  the  lives 
of the Cuban people and their efforts to move forward 
with the socio economic development of their country. 
The embargo has denied Cuba access to United States 
markets, investment, technology, financial services and 
scientific,  educational,  cultural  and  sports  institutions. 
In the past five decades, Cuba has had to pay enormous 
extra costs to obtain products, technology and services 
from  third  countries  located  thousands  of  kilometres 
away.  The  extraterritorial  application  of  the  United 
States 
investment, 
technology and its transfer and sale, and other forms of 
business  collaboration  between  Cuba  and 
third 
countries. 
Health  care,  one  of  the  commitments  of  the 

Millennium  Development  Goals, 
is  particularly 
affected  owing  to  the  continuous  denial  of  critical 
medical  equipment,  medicines, 
technologies  and 
diagnostic  aids  to  Cuban  hospitals.  Cuba’s  efforts  to 
provide  health  assistance 
fellow  developing 
countries  as  part  of  South-South  cooperation  has  also 
suffered  from  the  embargo,  making  that  yet  another 
discouraged 
particularly 
embargo, 
embargo 
has 
The 
through 
the 
to 
10-60252 

13 
and 
development 
A/65/PV.36 

unexpected  negative  extraterritorial  impact  of  the 
embargo. 

In  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General,  various 
United Nations entities have detailed the impact of the 
embargo  and  its  extraterritorial  effects.  The  United 
Nations Resident Coordinator in Havana has noted the 
high  cost  and  negative  impact  of  the  embargo  on 
humanitarian 
cooperation 
implemented  by  the  United  Nations  system  in  Cuba. 
The Economic Commission for Latin America and the 
Caribbean  has  stated  that  the  embargo  considerably 
affects  the  standard  of  living  of  Cuban  citizens  and 
may threaten Cuba’s food security in the future. 

The United Nations Development Programme has 
noted  that  the  effects  of  the  embargo  can  be  observed 
in all spheres of Cuba’s social and economic activities, 
including the lives of the most vulnerable. The United 
Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and  Development  has 
stated  that  the  impact  on  trade  of  the  extraterritorial 
application is considerable owing to significant United 
States interests in transnational corporations. In recent 
years, the financial, food and energy crises have made 
the impact of the embargo even more acute. 

Geography  indicates  that  there  ought  to  be 
normal relations in trade and investment between Cuba 
and the United States of America. Despite the embargo, 
the  United  States  continues  to  be  a  major  source  of 
food  imports  for  Cuba,  insofar  as  permitted  by  the 
United  States  Trade  Sanctions  Reform  and  Export 
Enhancement Act of 2000. That only confirms the high 
potential for trade, commerce and investment between 
those countries. 

two 
countries  remains  severely  curtailed.  The  lifting  of 
United  States  travel  restrictions  on  Cuba  would  bring 
immense benefits to the Cuban tourism sector and to its 
people.  Congressional  efforts  in  the  United  States  to 
relax or lift the embargo and the substantial interest in 
United States business circles for unhindered access to 
the  Cuban  market  lend  further  credence  to  the  annual 
United Nations resolutions calling for the lifting of the 
United States embargo against Cuba. 
Before concluding, permit me to reiterate India’s 

opposition  to  unilateral  measures  by  countries  that 
impinge  on 
the  sovereignty  of  another  country, 
including  attempts  to  extend  the  application  of  a 
country’s  laws  extraterritorially  to  other  sovereign 
nations. 
People-to-people  contact  between 
the 


India  joins  all  other  nations  in  calling  for  an 
immediate  end  to  the  United  States  embargo  against 
Cuba.  India  supports  the  draft  resolution  moved  by 
Cuba today (A/65/L.3). 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  The  Russian  delegation  welcomes 
the 
presence  of  the  Minister  for  Foreign Affairs  of  Cuba, 
Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla,  at  today’s  discussion. 
We thank the Secretary-General for his comprehensive 
report  on  the  issue  before  us  (A/65/83).  The  opinions 
of  the  Member  States  presented  in  the  document 
clearly show their disagreement with and objections to 
the  introduction  of  the  unilateral  and  exterritorial 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba. 

Russia’s position of principle with  respect to the 
draft resolution (A/65/L.3) is well known. Our country 
fully shares the view of the overwhelming majority of 
Member  States  of  the  international  community  in 
firmly  rejecting  the  United  States  embargo  against 
Cuba and in  calling for its lifting as  soon as possible. 
We  are  convinced  that  ending  the  embargo  against 
Cuba  and  normalizing  United  States-Cuban  relations 
would generally help to improve the island’s situation. 
We  believe  that  the  maintenance  of  the  commercial, 
economic  and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba  by  the 
United  States  is  counterproductive,  anachronistic  and 
not in keeping with current realities. 

Last year, President Obama’s Administration took 
steps to lift  a number of  restrictions on visits to Cuba 
by United States citizens who have relatives there and 
on  monetary  and  postal  transfers  to  Cubans  from  the 
United  States,  as  well  as  steps  to  resume  dialogue  on 
migration issues. We therefore expect other actions that 
will  improve  relations  between  the  two  countries  and, 
ultimately  of  course,  put  a  complete  end  to  the  long 
obsolete  commercial  and  economic  embargo  against 
Cuba. 

For the time being, we feel that we must continue 
our  policy  of  voting  in  favour  of  the  draft  resolution 
calling  for  the  lifting  of  the  embargo,  guided  by  the 
fundamental  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  on  the  inadmissibility  of  any  discriminatory 
measures  or  interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of 
States. 
14 

10-60252 


Mr.  Kapambwe  (Zambia):  Zambia  will  vote  in 

favour of draft resolution A/65/L.3, as we have done in 
the past and for the reasons listed in the statements by 
the representatives of Malawi on behalf of the African 
Group,  of  Yemen  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and 
China,  and  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement, with which we would like to be associated. 

On 12 June 1987, President Ronald Reagan made 
a  statement  that  has  remained  indelibly  etched  in  the 
history of the Cold War era. Addressing himself to the 
President of the Soviet Union, he said “Mr. Gorbachev, 
tear  down  this  wall”,  in  reference  to  the  Berlin  Wall. 
Today,  for  the  sake  of  the  suffering  people  of  Cuba, 
including  women  and  children,  we  wish  to  make  an 
earnest and simple appeal: President Obama, please do 
the  right  thing  and  lift  the  United  States  embargo 
against  Cuba.  It  is  time  to  be  on  the  right  side  of 
history. 
Mrs. Waffa-Ogoo (Gambia): The Gambia wishes 

to  associate  itself  with  the  statements  made  by  the 
representatives of Yemen on behalf of the Group of 77 
and  China,  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement,  and  of  Malawi  on  behalf  of  the  African 
Group. 

Last  year,  my  delegation  joined  members  of  the 
Assembly in calling for an immediate end to one of the 
most  protracted  political  sanctions  regime  that  the 
Assembly  has  ever  known. We  spoke  in  the  hope  that 
the  opportunity  had  finally  arrived  for  the  embargo  to 
become  a  thing  of  the  past.  To  our  bewilderment,  the 
half-century-old  regime  is  still  intact,  with  occasional 
cosmetic  tweaks  made  to  resemble  real  change.  Real 
change is long overdue. 

Foreign Minister said: 

At  this  year’s  general  debate,  the  Gambia’s 

“The United States embargo against Cuba is 
one of the longest running political disputes that 
this  Assembly  has  needed  to  address  for  almost 
two decades. It is embarrassing that such a cruel 
and  outmoded 
in 
international  relations 
in  place.  The 
embargo  has  no  legitimacy  or  appeal,  and  it  is 
time  for  those  that  imposed  it  to  show  genuine 
leadership by ending it.” (A/65/PV.20) 
form  of  settling  scores 
is  still 
In  the  coming  months,  we  will  look  forward  to  the 
exercise  of  true  leadership  towards  ending  that  penal 
regime. 
A/65/PV.36
are 
the  Secretary-General’s  report 
and  people  of  Cuba 
in 
The  devastating  effects  of  the  embargo  on  the 

amply 
Government 
documented 
in 
document  А/65/83.  It  is  also  clear  that  the  United 
Nations  system,  too,  is  paying  a  heavy  price  in  its 
activities  with  Cuba,  especially  when  it  comes  to  the 
travel  of  Cuban  United  Nations  personnel,  visa 
restrictions  and  higher  procurement  costs  directly 
associated with the embargo. 

Cuban  agriculture  is  not  spared.  Cuban  health 
care,  medical  and  scientific  research,  educational 
cooperation,  cultural  exchanges  and 
intellectual 
property  rights  are  all  adversely  affected  by  the 
extraterritorial reach of the embargo. 

Cuban  companies,  United  States  companies  and 
third-country  companies  continue  to  be  penalized  for 
doing business in Cuba. Travel to Cuba continues to be 
restricted  in  ways  that  make  the  cost  prohibitive 
because  of  cumbersome  procedures  that  visitors  are 
required to meet. Financial transactions between Cuba 
and  other  countries  have  also  not  been  spared.  The 
odious  nature  of  that  embargo  is  apparent  to  all.  Its 
continuation therefore cannot serve any useful purpose. 
Even children are not spared by the embargo. The 

the  hurdles 
Secretary-General’s 
encountered  by  United  Nations  agencies 
the 
procurement  of  Ritonavir,  a  paediatric  antiretroviral 
drug. It states that the HIV/AIDS programme has also 
been  affected  by  the  lack  of  procurement  of  the 
antiretroviral  drugs  used  in  children,  Kaletra  and 
Norvir,  both  produced  by  Abbott,  which  is  a  United 
States-based company. 

The  Cuba  we  know  does  not  deserve  those 
sanctions.  It  is  a  leader  in  humanitarian  assistance 
around  the  world  and  in  providing  health  care  and 
education to millions all over the world. The Cuba we 
know is not a threat to any country’s national security. 
The Cuba we know is a country that promotes friendly 
relations among its peoples and the countries of every 
region represented in this Assembly. 

the 
Government and people of the Gambia will today stand 
in  solidarity  with  Cuba  by  voting  for  draft  resolution 
A/65/L.3.  It  is  once  again  our  hope  that  those  who 
impose and maintain that inhumane embargo will find 
it  in  their  hearts  to  call  for  its  total  and  unconditional 
lifting. It is time to consign the Helms-Burton Act and 
the Torricelli Act to the dustbin of history. A regime of 
is  no  coincidence, 
report  highlights 
in 
It 
therefore, 
that 
10-60252 

15 

in 
imposition  and 
We  associate  ourselves  with 
A/65/PV.36 

friendly  relations  and  good-neighbourliness  should 
finally replace them in the birth of a new era of Cuban-
American  relations.  We  call  on  other  countries  to 
support  the  draft  resolution  and  to  further  support 
efforts to dismantle that intricate web of extraterritorial 
sanctions. 
Mr.  Christian  (Ghana):  Ghana  welcomes  the 

presence  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez 
Parrilla, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba. 

the  statements 
delivered today by the representatives of Yemen, Egypt 
and  Malawi  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China, 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  and  the  African  Group, 
respectively. 
As  in  the  past,  Ghana  has  asked  for  the  floor  to 

join  other  speakers  in  expressing  its  concern  at  the 
continued 
implementation  of  an 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba  by  the  United  States.  Last  year,  members  of  the 
Assembly  voted  overwhelmingly 
favour  of 
resolution 64/6, calling for an end to this blockade. The 
strong  solidarity  demonstrated  year  after  year  in  the 
Assembly speaks for itself — those restrictions against 
a Member State by a Member State should end. 
In  fulfilment  of  Ghana’s  commitment  to  the 

purposes  and  principles  enshrined 
the  United 
Nations  Charter  and  in  international  law,  we  have 
steadfastly  refrained  from  promulgating  and  enforcing 
laws whose  extraterritorial effects adversely affect  the 
sovereignty  of  other  States,  the  legitimate  interests  of 
entities  or  persons  under  their  jurisdiction,  and  their 
freedom  of  trade  and  navigation.  Indeed,  Ghana  and 
Cuba  enjoy  excellent  bilateral  relations,  based  on  our 
shared  goals  and  responsibilities  towards  an  equitable 
world in the spirit of cooperation and multilateralism. 

Our  long-standing  cooperation  with  Cuba  in  the 
areas  of  health,  education  and  sports  continues  to 
expand,  and  currently  there  are  more  than  200  Cuban 
medical  professionals  working  in  hospitals  across 
Ghana  and  also  teaching  in  some  of  our  universities. 
Cuba  continues  to  offer  scholarships  to  Ghanaian 
students  to  study  in  Cuba  in  sectors  that  are  deemed 
critical  to  the  development  agenda  pursued  by  the 
Government of Ghana. 

The  embargo,  in  place  for  more  than  a  half 
century,  has  taken  its  toll  on  the  well-being  of  the 
ordinary  people  of  Cuba,  women  and  children.  They 
in 
by 
For 
those 
the 
statements 
itself  with 
reasons,  Barbados  opposes 
The  purposes  and  principles  of 
are counting on the support of the rest of the world for 
an  end  to  the  embargo,  which  has  had  a  debilitating 
effect  on  their  lives.  Ghana  has  chosen  to  offer  that 
support  today  in  the  spirit  of  fellow  feeling  for  our 
brothers  and  sisters  in  Cuba,  and  urges  the  United 
States to end its embargo. 
Mr.  Goddard  (Barbados):  Barbados  wishes  to 

associate 
the 
representatives by Yemen on behalf of the Group of 77 
and China and by the Commonwealth of the Bahamas 
on behalf of the Caribbean Community. 

the  United 
Nations  Charter  call  for  respect  for  the  sovereign 
equality  of  States,  non-interference  in  their  internal 
affairs,  the  right  of  peoples  to  self-determination,  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes and the maintenance of 
friendly  relations  among  States.  The  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security  and  the  peaceful 
coexistence  of  States  require  that  all  Member  States 
adhere  to  the  rule  of  law,  including  the  principles 
enshrined in the United Nations Charter. 

the 
imposition  of  unilateral  punitive  measures,  especially 
where  they  involve  the  extraterritorial  application  of 
legislation  that  violates  international  law  and  restricts 
freedom  of  trade  and  navigation  and  the  sovereignty 
and  freedom  of  States.  Barbados  views  the  continued 
imposition  of  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo against the Republic of Cuba as a violation of 
the principles of the United Nations Charter. 
The  Government  of  Barbados  fully  embraces 

Cuba  as  an  important  partner  in  the  Caribbean  region 
and  remains  committed  to  a  policy  of  constructive 
engagement with its Government and people. We fully 
respect 
its  full 
integration into the hemisphere. We do not believe that 
efforts  to  isolate  Cuba  or  measures  that  create  greater 
hardship  for  the  Cuban  people,  such  as  the  decades-
long  economic  embargo,  will  foster  change  in  that 
country. 

The embargo inhibits the development of normal 
economic  and  cultural  relations.  It  distorts  trade  and 
investment  flows  and  impedes  legitimate  business 
opportunities among neighbouring States. Furthermore, 
as  the  response  of  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
states: 
its  sovereign  rights  and  support 
16 

10-60252 



its 
creating 
“The  impact  of  the  embargo  can  be  observed  in 
all  spheres  of  the  country’s  social  and  economic 
activities, affecting opportunities for national and 
and 
local  development 
economic 
hardship.” (A/65/83, p. 121) 

Barbados  maintains  excellent  relations  both  with 
the United States of America and with Cuba and places 
great  value  on 
long-established  and  friendly 
relations with both countries. In that spirit, we join the 
international  community  in  calling  for  an  immediate 
end  to  the  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  on 
Cuba  and  its  people. We  further  urge  the  Government 
of  the  United  States  of  America  to  engage  in  a 
constructive  dialogue  with  the  Government  of  Cuba 
aimed at normalizing relations with Cuba. Such a step 
would  remove  a  source  of  tension  and  conflict  and 
would  improve  the  prospects  for  peace,  development 
and cooperation within our region. 

In  support  of  the  principles  of  international  law 
and  the  United  Nations  Charter,  as  in  previous  years, 
Barbados  will  vote  in  favour  of  the  draft  resolution 
(A/65/L.3) before us today. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Bruno  Eduardo 
Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Cuba, to introduce draft resolution A/65/L.3. 
in 

Spanish):  Serious  and  imminent  dangers  threaten  the 
existence  of  our  species.  To  preserve  human  life,  we 
must  preserve  peace.  The  use  of  only  a  small  part  of 
the  world’s  enormous  nuclear  arsenal  would  mean  the 
end  of  the  species.  The  only  guarantee  that  nuclear 
weapons  will  not  be  used  by  any  State  or  any 
individual 
the 
generation  of  conventional  weapons  of  an  almost 
similar lethal power developed of late. 

The  only  solution  is  disarmament.  To  survive,  a 
leap  in  humanity’s  awareness  is  crucial.  That  is 
possible  only  through  the  dissemination  of  truthful 
information  on  such  issues,  which  most  politicians 
conceal  or  ignore,  which  the  press  do  not  publish  and 
which for the people are so horrendous that they seem 
unbelievable. 

We are in a new era, and in our opinion, it is for 
this  General Assembly  of  the  United  Nations  to  lead, 
with utmost urgency — and as Fidel Castro ceaselessly 
asks — a world mobilization to demand respect for the 
their  destruction,  along  with 
Mr.  Rodríguez  Parrilla
(Cuba) 
(spoke 
is 
A/65/PV.36
The 
solution 
to  conflicts 
rejection  by  Latin  America  and 
right  of  human  beings  and  of  peoples  to  live.  Let  us 
build a different world order. Let us institute a common 
ethic based on human solidarity and justice. Let us find 
a 
through  dialogue  and 
cooperation.  Let  selfishness  and  plundering,  which 
lead to war and the use of force, cease. In the face of 
the serious threat, let us put aside that which confronts 
us  or  divides  us  and  let  us  unite  to  save  peace,  the 
planet and the life of future generations. 

Under  those  circumstances  in  particular,  the 
United  States  policy  against  Cuba  does  not  have  any 
ethical  or  legal  basis,  credibility  or  support.  That  is 
demonstrated  by  the  more  than  180  votes  in  the 
Assembly, which in recent years have called for an end 
to the economic, commercial and financial blockade. In 
the  Secretary-General’s  report  made  available  to  us 
(A/65/83), more than 180 countries and agencies of the 
United  Nations  system  document  their  opposition  to 
that policy. 

the 
Caribbean  is  forceful  and  unanimous.  The  Unity 
Summit  of  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean,  held  in 
Cancún  in  February  2010,  stated  that  resolutely.  The 
leaders of the region have conveyed that directly to the 
current American President. It is clear that the express 
rejection  of  the  blockade  and  the  Helms-Burton  Act 
characterizes, as few items do, the political heritage of 
the region. 

Equally  unequivocal  views  have  been  endorsed 
by the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries, the Ibero 
American  summits,  the  European  Union  and  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  summits,  the African  Union, 
the  summits  of  the  African,  Caribbean  and  Pacific 
States  and  virtually  any  group  of  nations  that  has 
declared  its  adherence  to  international  law  and  to 
observance  of  the  principles  and  purposes  of  the 
United Nations Charter. 

in 
American  society  and  the  Cuban  emigrants  in  that 
country against the blockade and in favour of a change 
of policy towards Cuba. Recent polls show that 71 per 
cent  of  United  States 
the 
normalization  of  relations  between  Cuba  and  the 
United States, while 64 per cent of them and a similar 
proportion of Cuban residents in south Florida oppose 
the  Cuba  travel  ban,  which  violates  their  citizens’ 
rights. 
is  broad  and  growing  consensus 
advocate 
citizens 
There 
10-60252 

17 

to 
A/65/PV.36 


As  with  other  issues,  two  years  after  the  United 
States  President  announced  a  new  beginning  with 
Cuba, the facts confirm that nothing has changed. The 
President has not used his extensive privileges to relax 
the blockade. The sanctions against Cuba remain intact 
and are strictly implemented. 

The  economic  siege  was  tightened  in  2010,  and 
its  daily  impact  continues  to  be  seen  in  all  aspects  of 
life  in  Cuba.  Its  consequences  are  particularly  serious 
in  areas  that  are  sensitive  for  the  population,  such  as 
health and food. Cuban ophthalmologic services cannot 
perform  transpupillary  thermotherapy,  which  is  done 
through  a  surgical  microscope, 
treat  children 
suffering  from  retinoblastoma,  that  is,  cancer  of  the 
retina. It is impossible to obtain the equipment for that 
treatment,  which  can  only  be  bought  from 
the 
American  company  Iris  Medical  Instruments.  Without 
that technology, it is impossible to treat a retina tumour 
and to save a child’s affected eye. 
Cuban  children  have  no  access  to  a  medicine 

called  Sevofluorane, 
the  most  advanced  general 
inhalation  anaesthetic  agent,  that  is,  an  anaesthetic  to 
operate  on  children,  because  its  manufacturer,  the 
American  company  Abbott,  is  not  allowed  to  sell  to 
Cuba.  Nor  can  an  optical  coherence  tomographer  be 
obtained  from  the  German  company  Carl  Zeiss  to 
examine the retina and the optical nerve because it has 
components  supplied  by 
the  American  company 
Humphrey. 

The  prevailing  onerous  and  discriminatory 
conditions  for  purchases  of  American  foodstuffs  — 
which  are  supposedly  protected  as  a  humanitarian 
exception,  while  all  international  trade  standards  are 
violated — resulted in the dramatic reduction of those 
operations in the past year. That reality harms not only 
our people, but also American farmers. 

It  would  be  untruthful  for  anyone  in  this  Hall  to 
again describe as a trading partner a country to which 
Cuba cannot sell a single dose of medicine or a single 
gram of nickel. 

selectively 
authorized  some  cultural,  academic  and  scientific 
exchanges,  they  are  still  subject  to  severe  restrictions, 
and  many  such  projects  could  not  be  carried  out 
because licences, visas and other permits were denied. 
It is not widely known that Cuban artists are prohibited 
from  receiving  payment  for  their  performances  in  this 
country. 
Although  Washington  has  very 
those 
involving 
transfers 
total  more 
among  other  States, 

Persecution  with  regard  to  Cuban  property  and 
assets  and  commercial  and  financial  transfers  to  and 
from  Cuba  or 
institutions  or 
individuals based in our country has intensified. In the 
past  year,  Treasury  and  Justice  Departments  fines  on 
firms of their country and Europe for transactions with 
Cuba, 
than 
$800 million.  In  a  clear  escalation,  the  American 
Government  has  also  appropriated 
in 
currencies  of  third  countries,  such  as  the  euro.  The 
confiscation  of  a  transfer  of  more  than  €107,000 
belonging to  the company  Cubana de Aviación, which 
was  made  through  the  Banco  Popular  Español  from 
Madrid to Moscow, was true theft. 

The direct economic damage caused to the Cuban 
people  by  the  implementation  of  the  blockade  in  the 
past  50  years  exceeds  $751  billion  dollars  at  that 
currency’s current value. 

Despite  universal  rejection  of  that  policy,  high 
officials of that Government have reiterated that it will 
remain  unchanged.  On  2  September,  President  Obama 
himself ratified the sanctions against Cuba, referring to 
the  alleged  national  interest  of  the  United  States. 
However,  everyone  knows  that  the  White  House 
continues  to  pay  more  attention  to  the  well-funded 
special  interests  of  a  tiny  minority  that  has  made  the 
policy against Cuba a very profitable business. 

It is clear that the United States has no intention 
whatsoever  of  lifting  the  blockade.  There  is  no  sign 
that the Government has any will to dismantle the most 
irrational  aspects  of  what 
the  most 
comprehensive  and  long-lasting  set  of  sanctions  and 
coercive  economic  measures  ever  applied  against  any 
country. Traditionally, whenever the pretexts brandished as 
alleged  obstacles  to  lifting  the  blockade  against  Cuba 
collapse,  new  excuses  replace  them  in  order  to  justify 
the continuation of a policy that is unsustainable from 
every viewpoint. 

to  several  news  agencies,  very 
According 
recently, on 19 October, President Obama described all 
the  practices  that,  in  his  view,  are  currently  taking 
place  in  Cuba  as  insufficient  and  made  any  new  step 
conditional on internal changes that they would like to 
see  in  our  country.  The  President  is  wrong  to  assume 
that  he  has  the  right  to  interfere  and  to  rate  processes 
taking  place  in  Cuba  today.  It  is  regrettable  that  he  is 
so misinformed and ill advised. 
is  already 
18 

10-60252 
A/65/PV.36
No 
The 
transformations 



that  we  Cubans  are 
embarking  on  today  are  in  tune  with  our  aspirations 
and the sovereign decisions of our people. They seek to 
update  our  economic  model  and  make  it  efficient,  to 
improve  our  society,  extend  our  culture  and  develop 
our  socialism.  Those  changes  do  not  seek  to  appease 
the desires or satisfy the interests of the United States 
Government, which have always been contrary to those 
of the Cuban people. For the super-Power, any process 
that  does  not  lead  to  the  establishment  of  a  regime 
subordinated to its interest will be inadequate. But that 
is  not  going  to  happen,  because  many  generations  of 
Cubans  have  dedicated  and  continue  to  dedicate  the 
best  of  their  lives  to  defending  the  sovereignty  and 
independence of Cuba. 
The  United  States  Government  has  also  ignored 

the  many  declarations  and  proposals  submitted  by  the 
Cuban Government — both in public and in private — 
that  bear  witness  to  our  willingness  to  establish  a 
serious  and  constructive  dialogue  under  conditions  of 
equality and with full respect for our independence. 
to 
the  new 

response  has  been  given 
cooperation  projects  proposed  by 
the  Cuban 
Government  in  the  course  of  the  year  2010,  aimed  at 
making  progress  in  areas  of  common  interest  such  as 
the  fight  against  drug  trafficking  and  terrorism,  the 
protection  of  the  environment,  the  prevention  of 
natural  disasters, 
addressing  possible 
accidents  that  may  result  from  oil  exploration  in  the 
Gulf of Mexico. An opportunity to advance in areas of 
mutual  benefit  to  our  peoples  has,  once  again,  been 
missed. On the contrary, the United States Government 
has  continued  its  arbitrary  practices  of  adding  Cuba’s 
name  to  spurious  lists,  including  those  of  States  that 
allegedly  sponsor  international  terrorism,  produced  by 
the State Department to classify the behaviour of other 
nations. That country does not have the moral authority 
to draft such lists; as a rule, its name should appear at 
the  top  of  them  all.  There  is  no  reason  whatsoever  to 
include Cuba on any of those lists. 

The  United  States  Government  likewise  has 
upheld  the  unjust  conviction  against  the  five  Cuban 
antiterrorist  fighters  who  have  been  imprisoned  for 
more than 12 years and whose cause has inspired broad 
solidarity  within  the  international  community.  Cuba, 
which has been and is still a victim of State terrorism, 
calls  for  that  Government  to  put  an  end  to  the  double 
standards and impunity enjoyed in its own territory by 
the  confessed  perpetrators  of  acts  of  terrorism  that 
including 

is 
to  weaken 
the  economic 
were organized as part of the anti Cuban policy of that 
country,  which  was  conceived 
to  destabilize  our 
country during the 1960s and which included sabotage, 
kidnapping, assassination and armed aggressions. That 
would  be  a  genuine  contribution  to  the  international 
struggle against the scourge of terrorism. 

It is both outrageous and abnormal that the policy 
of  sanctions  and  subversion  applied  by  the  United 
States  against  Cuba  continues  to  be  guided  by  the 
thinking  contained  in  the  memorandum  by  the  former 
Deputy  Assistant  Secretary  of  State,  Lester  Mallory, 
written on 6 April 1960, which was declassified a few 
years ago. I quote: 


“The majority of Cubans support Castro [...] 
There is no effective political opposition [...] The 
only  foreseeable  means  of  alienating  internal 
the  Government] 
support 
through 
[from 
disenchantment 
and  disaffection  based  on 
economic dissatisfaction and hardship. 
Every possible means should be undertaken 

promptly 
life  [...] 
denying money and supplies to Cuba, to decrease 
monetary  and  real  wages,  to  bring  about  hunger, 
desperation and overthrow of government.” 

This quote reveals a cruel and aggressive policy, 
absolutely  contrary  to  international  law,  that  this 
Government  insists  on  maintaining,  knowing  that  it 
causes  harm  and  suffering  and  violates  the  human 
rights of an entire people. 

This  is  not  a  bilateral  issue,  as  is  constantly 
repeated  by  representatives  of  the  United  States.  Its 
distinct  extraterritorial  character  is  endorsed  by  laws, 
and there are many examples of the implementation of 
coercive  measures  against  citizens  and  entities  from 
third countries. 

its  nature  and  scope, 
qualifies  as  an  act  of  genocide  under Article  II  of  the 
Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of  the 
Crime of Genocide, adopted in 1948, and also as an act 
in  accordance  with 
of  economic  warfare, 
the 
Declaration  concerning 
the  Laws  of  Naval  War, 
adopted  in  1909.  It  is  a  hostile  and  unilateral  act  that 
should be ceased unilaterally. 

Once  again,  on  behalf  of  the  people  of  Cuba,  I 
ask  the  representatives  of  all  the  countries  gathered 
here  to  vote  in  favour  of  draft  resolution  A/65/L.3, 
which I am honoured to present, entitled “Necessity of 
The  blockade,  given 
10-60252 

19 

the  development  of 
the  economic,  commercial  and 
the  promotion  of  gender  equality; 
A/65/PV.36 

ending 
financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba”. 

We Cubans feel proud of our work. Although this 
economic  warfare  causes  hardships,  the  fact  that  has 
not  taken  a  toll  on  human  lives  or  managed  to  cause 
widespread and traumatic harm to our people is thanks 
to  the  efforts  and  sacrifices  made  by  Cubans  and  the 
willingness and determination of its Government. 

Although  the  economic  persecution  constitutes 
the  main  obstacle  hindering  the  development  of  our 
country and the improvement of the living standards of 
our  people,  Cuba  shows  undeniable  results  in  the 
eradication  of  poverty  and  hunger;  in  health  and 
education  indices,  which  serve  as  a  global  point  of 
reference; 
the 
freedom  and  equal  well-being  of  Cubans;  social 
consensus;  the  democratic  participation  of  citizens  in 
the  country’s  decisions;  the  reversal  of  environmental 
degradation  and 
international 
cooperation  with  about  100  countries  of  the  third 
world. 
A few weeks ago Cuba was able to declare in this 

Hall  that  it  had  largely  and  exceptionally  complied 
with the Millennium Development Goals. Such results 
are still a utopia for a large segment of the population 
on this planet. 

We  Cubans  face  our  historical  destiny  with 
optimism, commitment and creativity. We are inspired 
by  the  feelings  of  peace,  justice  and  solidarity  that 
have  characterized  our  people  and  the  friendship  that 
the whole world feels for our free and rebellious island. 
Cuba  will  continue  to  be  ready  to  enter  into  peaceful 
and respectful relations with the United States, as it has 
with  the  overwhelming  majority  of  the  international 
community and the entire hemisphere. 

Cuba  will  never  cease  to  denounce  the  blockade 
or  to  demand  its  people’s  legitimate  right  to  live  and 
work  for 
its  socio  economic  development  under 
conditions  of  equality,  in  cooperation  with  the  rest  of 
the  nations  and  without  economic  siege  or  external 
pressures. 

Cuba  expresses  its  gratitude  to  the  international 
community  for  its  firm  solidarity  with  our  people, 
convinced  that,  someday,  justice  will  be  served  and 
that  this  draft  resolution  will  then  no  longer  be 
necessary. 
increased 
respect 
rights 
for  human 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 

have heard the last speaker in the debate on this item. 
We  shall  now  proceed  to  consider  draft  resolution 
A/65/L.3. 

In  that  connection,  I  have  two  requests  to  speak 
in  explanation  of  vote  before  the  vote.  Before  giving 
the floor to the speakers in explanation of vote before 
the vote, may I remind delegations that explanations of 
vote are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by 
delegations from their seats. 
Mr.  Godard  (United  States  of  America):  The 

United States of America, like most Member States, is 
firmly committed to supporting the desire of the Cuban 
people to freely determine their country’s future. 
The  United  States  of  America,  like  all  Member 

States, has the sovereign right to conduct its economic 
relationships  with  other  countries  as  it  sees  fit.  The 
United  States  economic  relationship  with  Cuba  is  a 
bilateral  issue  and  part  of  a  broader  set  of  relations 
meant to encourage a more open environment in Cuba 
and 
and 
fundamental  freedoms.  Respect  for  those  rights  and 
freedoms  are  part  of  this  Organization’s  core  values. 
We  should  not  lose  sight  of  that  in  a  debate  mired  in 
the  rhetorical  arguments  of  the  past  and  focused  on 
tactical  differences  —  a  debate  that  does  nothing  to 
help the Cuban people. 

My  delegation  regrets  that  the  delegation  from 
Cuba continues, year after year, to inappropriately and 
incorrectly  label  United  States  trade  restrictions  on 
Cuba as an act of genocide. Such an egregious misuse 
of the term diminishes the real suffering of victims of 
genocide  elsewhere  in  the  world.  Additionally,  those 
who  charge  the  United  States  sanctions  as  being  the 
cause  of  deprivation  among  the  Cuban  people  should 
be reminded that the United States holds no restriction 
on  humanitarian  aid  to  Cuba  and  remains  Cuba’s 
largest provider of food. 
in 

agricultural  products,  medical  devices,  medicine  and 
wood  to  Cuba  in  2009.  In  agricultural  products  alone, 
the  United  States  exported  $526  million  in  goods  to 
Cuba.  Once  again,  in  2009,  Cuba  reported  that  the 
United  States  was  its  fifth  largest  trading  partner. The 
United  States  in  2009  also  authorized  $237  million  in 
private  humanitarian  assistance  in  the  form  of  gift 
parcels  filled  with  food  and  other  basic  necessities, 
The  United  States 
sold  $533  million 
20 

10-60252 
of 
the 
ability 
United 


non-agricultural  humanitarian  donations  and  medical 
donations. 

It  is  equally  important  to  note  that  the  United 
States has demonstrated that we are prepared to engage 
the  Government  of  Cuba  on  issues  that  affect  the 
security  and  well-being  of  both  our  peoples.  In April 
2009,  President  Obama  stated  that  the  United  States 
seeks a new beginning with Cuba, but there is a longer 
journey that must be travelled to overcome the decades 
of mistrust. Over the past 21 months, the United States 
has  begun  to  make  progress  on  the  vision  that  the 
President has outlined. We lifted restrictions on family 
visits  and  remittances  and  expanded  the  amounts  of 
humanitarian  items  that  the  American  people  can 
donate  to  individuals  in  Cuba.  The  United  States  has 
enhanced 
States 
telecommunication companies to pursue agreements to 
provide  service  to  Cuba  and  has  made  it  easier  for 
United States agricultural producers to pursue contracts 
with  Cuban  buyers.  Furthermore,  we  have  resumed 
bilateral  discussions  on  migration,  we  have  initiated 
talks  to  re  establish  direct  mail  service  between  the 
United States and Cuba, and we have increased artistic 
and  cultural  exchanges  between  our  countries, 
consistent  with  our  long-standing  support  for  freedom 
of  expression.  In  the  wake  of  the  tragic  earthquake  in 
Haiti,  the  United  States  coordinated  with  Cuba  to 
address  the  medical  needs  of  Haitians  as  part  of  the 
international relief efforts there. 

President  Obama  has  stated  publicly  that  the 
release of political prisoners and economic reforms are 
positive steps for the Cuban people. The United States 
hopes to see the fulfilment of those promises soon, as 
well  as  a  broader  opening  by  the  Cuban  Government 
signalling its willingness to engage constructively with 
its  own  people.  However,  it  is  the  view  of  the  United 
States that  a  new era in  United States-Cuban relations 
cannot  be  fully  realized  until  the  Cuban  people  enjoy 
the  internationally  recognized  political  and  economic 
freedoms that this body has done so much to defend in 
other countries around the world. 

My  delegation  will  vote  against  draft  resolution 
A/65/L.3.  Indeed,  the  United  States  believes  that  it  is 
high  time  for  this  body  to  focus  its  energies  on 
supporting  the  Cuban  people  in  their  quest  to  freely 
decide their own future and move beyond the rhetorical 
posturing that this draft resolution represents. 
A/65/PV.36
Mrs. Rubiales de Chamorro (Nicaragua) (spoke 

in Spanish): Nicaragua will explain why it is going to 
vote  in  favour  of  draft  resolution A/65/L.3,  presented 
by  comrade  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba,  whom  we  thank  for  having 
updated the General Assembly on the harm and damage 
that  President  Barack  Obama’s  Administration 
continues  to  inflict  on  the  people  of  Cuba  with  the 
most  criminal  blockade  that  has  existed  in  the  history 
of humankind. 

Before  I  do  that,  I  wish  to  express  our  eternal 
gratitude  to  the  people  and  Government  of  Cuba  for 
their unconditional solidarity and for their most recent 
noble initiative of solidarity that was carried out in my 
country,  Nicaragua.  The  President  of  our  country  has 
just  awarded  the  Rubén  Darío  order  of  cultural 
independence  to  the  Todos  con  Voz  Cuban  medical 
brigade,  which  completed  the  historic  mission  of 
diagnosing  and  recording  all  Nicaraguan  brothers  and 
sisters  with  disabilities 
throughout  our  national 
territory.  I  quote  the  words  of  Commander  Daniel 
Ortega  Saavedra,  President  of  Nicaragua,  when  he 
made the award: 

“To 
the  Todos  con  Voz  medical  brigade, 
exemplary  exponents  of  the  model  of  scientific 
development  and  public  health,  humanism  and 
solidarity of Fidel and Raúl’s Cuba, recognized as 
one  of  the  best  in  the  world  and  the  pride  of  all 
the world’s revolutionaries.” 
The  people  and  Governments  represented  here 

think  of  Cuba  as  a  kindred 
island,  people  and 
Government,  and  recognize  Cuba  for  its  heroism, 
solidarity,  humanism,  generosity  and  devotion  when 
faced with other people’s suffering, for its readiness to 
lend  a  friendly  hand  when  we  need  help. That  is  why 
we will once again today express ourselves to demand 
that  the  country  that  blockades  Cuba,  prevents  its 
development and threatens those that go near it — the 
country  which  from  the  very  first  day  of  the  Cuban 
revolution  initiated  aggression  against  it  —  cease  this 
absurd and inhuman policy. 

the  General 
Assembly 
together 
the 
international  community  and 
the 
nineteenth  consecutive  time,  that  the  Government  of 
the  United  States  put  an  end  to  this  criminal  and 
inhuman  blockade  against  the  heroic  generous  people 
and Government of Cuba. 
the  voices  of 
to  demand,  for 
We  meet  once  again 
to  bring 
today 
in 
10-60252 

21 

transactions.  We  can  see  how 
A/65/PV.36 


Any country would understand this, simply from 
reading the Secretary-General’s report (A/65/83) on the 
replies  of  Governments  and  bodies  of  the  United 
Nations  system.  All  but  one  of  us  understands.  Once 
again,  the  Government  of  the  United  States  will  be 
isolated  in  the  international  community.  Once  again, 
the world will stand by Cuba and its people in defence 
of its sovereignty and its unstoppable revolution and in 
demanding  an  end  to  the  inhuman  blockade.  Latin 
America and the Caribbean defend Cuba with a single 
voice.  We  have  closed  ranks  with  Cuba  so  that  the 
Government  of  the  United  States  will  reconsider  and 
correct its historical error, which is an anachronism in 
our region. 

Not  only  does  the  United  States  continue  to 
ignore  the  will  of  the  General  Assembly;  it  has 
tightened  the  main  elements  of  the  embargo  against 
Cuba.  That  is  reflected  in  the  increase  in  economic 
sanctions  and  the  targeting  of  Cuban  business  activity 
and  financial 
the 
chokehold  policy  on  Cuba  is  being  carried  out  to  the 
letter  by  the  new  Obama  Administration,  just  as 
previous  Administrations  have  done.  Where  is  the 
change of which so much mention was made during the 
campaign?  There  has  been  no  change  at  all.  This 
Administration  is  increasingly  isolated  in  its  obstinate 
imperial policy. 
We have just heard the words of our colleague the 

Minister  for  Foreign Affairs  of  Cuba,  representing  his 
worthy  people  and  Government.  He  has  again  told  us 
that the blockade continues to be the major obstacle to 
the  economic  and  social  development  of  his  country, 
and  that  its  full  effects  on  the  Cuban  economy  is 
approximately $751,363,000,000. 

In  addition  to  its  criminal  blockade,  the  United 
States  continues  its  policy  of  State  terrorism  by 
supporting admitted terrorists who freely move through 
the  cities  of  the  United  States,  planning  and  carrying 
out 
the 
Government  of  Cuba.  At  the  same  time,  the  United 
States  is  assailing  freedom  and  human  rights  by 
insisting  on  keeping  in  its  jails  five  heroic  Cuban 
patriots  whose  only  crime  was 
their 
motherland  from  terrorists  acts  committed  from  the 
territory  of  the  United  States  of America. We  demand 
the immediate release of these five Cuban anti terrorist 
heroes.  To  them  and  their  families  we  express  our 
respect and admiration on their heroic struggle against 
terrorist  actions  against 
the  people  and 
to  defend 
terrorists who try to destroy Cuba  and its unstoppable 
socialist revolution. 

With  our  vote,  we  shall  once  again  express  our 
emphatic  condemnation  of  the  blockade  against  Cuba 
and of all coercive measures of a unilateral nature and 
with extraterritorial impact that contradict international 
law  and  the  accepted  norms  of  free  trade.  Such 
practices  pose  a  grave  threat  to  multilateralism.  We 
will also be condemning the use of coercive unilateral 
measures,  such  as  illegal  sanctions  against  developing 
countries  aimed  at  preventing  them  from  exercising 
their  right  to  determine  their  own  political,  economic 
and social systems. 

Nicaragua  will  vote  in  favour  of  draft  resolution 
A/65/L.3. We call on the community of nations to once 
again  stand  by  Cuba  by  voting  in  favour,  thereby 
sending a message of peace, solidarity, respect for the 
Charter  of  the  Organization  and  for  non-interference 
and non-intervention  and,  of course, for an immediate 
and unilateral halt to the cruel and inhuman blockade. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 

have  heard  the  last  speaker  in  explanation  of  vote 
before the voting. 

resolution  A/65/L.3.  A 
requested. 

In favour: 

The Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
recorded  vote  has  been 
A recorded vote was taken. 
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Botswana,  Brazil, 
Brunei  Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso, 
Burundi,  Cambodia,  Cameroon,  Canada,  Cape 
Verde,  Central  African  Republic,  Chad,  Chile, 
China,  Colombia,  Comoros,  Congo,  Costa  Rica, 
Côte  d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech 
Republic,  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea,  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo, 
Denmark,  Djibouti,  Dominica,  Dominican 
Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  El 
Salvador, 
Equatorial  Guinea,  Eritrea,  Estonia,  Ethiopia, 
Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Gabon,  Gambia,  Georgia, 
Germany,  Ghana,  Greece,  Grenada,  Guatemala, 
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, 
22 

10-60252 


A/65/PV.36
Liechtenstein, 
Hungary,  Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic 
Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, 
Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kiribati,  Kuwait, 
Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic, 
Latvia,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Liberia,  Libyan  Arab 
Jamahiriya, 
Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Madagascar,  Malawi,  Malaysia, 
Maldives,  Mali,  Malta,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mexico,  Monaco,  Mongolia,  Montenegro, 
Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia, 
Nauru,  Nepal,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand, 
Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Norway,  Oman, 
Pakistan, Panama, Papua New Guinea, Paraguay, 
Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal,  Qatar, 
Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova, 
Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Rwanda,  Saint 
Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and 
the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Sao  Tome 
and  Principe,  Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Serbia, 
Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore,  Slovakia, 
Slovenia,  Solomon 
Islands,  Somalia,  South 
Africa,  Spain,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan,  Suriname, 
Swaziland,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  Syrian  Arab 
Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand, 
former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-Leste, 
Togo,  Tonga,  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Tunisia, 
Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu,  Uganda,  Ukraine, 
United Arab  Emirates, United Kingdom  of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of 
Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe 
the 
Israel, United States of America 
Against: 

Abstaining: 



Marshall  Islands,  Micronesia  (Federated  States 
of), Palau 
  Draft  resolution  A/65/L.3  was  adopted  by 
187 votes  to  2,  with  3  abstentions  (resolution 
65/6).
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I shall 

now call on those representatives who wish to explain 
their votes. May I remind delegations that explanations 
of vote are limited to 10  minutes and should be made 
by delegations from their seats. 

speak on behalf of the European Union (EU). 
Mr.  Grauls  (Belgium):  I  have  the  honour  to 

The  European  Union  believes  that  the  United 
States  trade  policy  towards  Cuba  is  fundamentally  a 
bilateral  issue.  However, American  legislation  such  as 
the  Cuban  Democracy  Act  of  1992  and  the  Helms-
Burton  Act  of  1996  has  extended  the  effects  of  the 
United  States  embargo  to  third-party  countries.  As  a 
matter of principle, the European Union has firmly and 
continuously opposed such extraterritorial measures. 

While  recognizing  the  decision  by  the  United 
States  Government  to  lift  restrictions  on  remittances 
and  family  travel  to  Cuba,  we  cannot  accept  that 
unilaterally  imposed  measures  impede  our  economic 
and  commercial  relations  with  Cuba.  To  address  this 
problem,  the  European  Union  Council  of  Ministers 
adopted,  in  November  1996,  a  regulation  and  a  joint 
action  to  protect  the  interests  of  natural  or  legal 
persons residing in Europe against the consequences of 
these  Acts.  Furthermore,  at  the  May  1998  European 
Union-United  States  Summit  held 
in  London,  a 
package  was  agreed  that  also  sought  to  alleviate  the 
problems  with  extraterritorial  legislation.  It  covered 
waivers to titles III and IV of the Helms-Burton Act, a 
commitment by the United States Government to resist 
future  extraterritorial  legislation  of  that  kind,  and  an 
understanding 
the 
strengthening  of  investment  protection.  The  European 
Union  reiterates  its  call  on  the  United  States  to 
implement this agreement. 

The  European  Union’s  policy  towards  Cuba  was 
set out in a common position in 1996. Reaffirming the 
validity of this common position, the European Union, 
in June 2008, lifted the restricted measures imposed on 
Cuba  in  2003.  The  dialogue  with  the  authorities  in 
Havana was resumed without preconditions and on the 
basis  of  reciprocity  and  non-discrimination.  Full 
political  dialogue  ministerial  sessions  have  been  held 
with  the  Cuban  Government  to  address  issues  of 
common interest, including human rights, a question at 
the core of relations with all third countries, including 
Cuba. 

The  European  Union  reaffirms  its  determination 
to  pursue  a  results-oriented  comprehensive  dialogue 
the  Cuban  authorities  as  well  as  with 
with 
representatives 
peaceful 
pro-democracy  opposition,  in  accordance  with  EU 
policies.  The  European  Union  reiterates  the  right  of 
Cuban citizens to make decisions independently  about 
their future. 
disciplines 
regarding 
society 
and 
of 
civil 
for 
10-60252 

23 

is  encouraged  by 
The  European  Union 
A/65/PV.36 


the 
ongoing  release  of  52  political  prisoners  from  the 
group imprisoned in 2003, and reiterates its call to the 
Cuban  Government 
to  unconditionally  release  all 
political prisoners. The European Union also reiterates 
its  call  on  the  Cuban  Government  to  fully  grant  its 
citizens  internationally  recognized  civil,  political  and 
economic  rights  and  freedoms,  including  the  freedom 
of  expression  and  free  access  to  information,  to  ratify 
the  International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political 
Rights  and  the  International  Covenant  on  Economic, 
Social and Cultural Rights, and,  following the visit of 
the  United  Nations  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  right  to 
food, to extend invitations to other rapporteurs to visit 
Cuba. 
The  existing  restrictions  on  rights  and  freedoms 

undermine  and  offset  Cuban  achievements  in  health 
care  and  education.  Similarly,  domestic  Cuban 
economic  policy  seriously  hampers  its  own  economic 
development.  In  this  context,  the  European  Union 
looks  forward  to  the  implementation  of  the  economic 
reforms  announced  by  the  Cuban  Government,  and 
expresses its hope that these reforms will be extended 
and implemented in a manner that will address the key 
concerns of the Cuban population. 

The economic, commercial and financial embargo 
imposed  by  the  United  States  contributes  to  the 
economic  problems  in  Cuba,  negatively  affecting  the 
living  standards  of  the  Cuban  people.  The  European 
Union  therefore  believes  that  the  lifting  of  the  United 
States embargo would open up the Cuban economy to 
the benefit of the Cuban people. 

We  again  express  our  rejection  of  all  unilateral 
measures  directed  against  Cuba  that  are  contrary  to 
commonly  accepted  rules  of  international  trade.  The 
European  Union  urges  the  Cuban  authorities  to  bring 
about  real  improvements  in  all  the  areas  I  have 
mentioned. 
In  spite  of  continued  concerns  and 
criticisms about the human rights situation in Cuba, the 
European  Union  unanimously  voted  in  favour  of 
resolution 65/6. 
Mr. Cancela (Uruguay) (spoke in Spanish): As in 

previous  years,  Uruguay  voted  in  favour  of  the  draft 
resolution  presented  by 
the  delegation  of  Cuba 
(A/65/L.3),  adopted  as  resolution  65/6,  since  we 
consider  that  the  embargo  against  that  country  is 
counter to the purposes and principles of the Charter of 
the United Nations and that it contravenes the rules of 
like 
to 
its 
of 
context 
reiterate 
international  law,  in  particular  norms  that  regulate 
international  trade  and  those  that  are  binding  on  the 
members of the World Trade Organization. 
The  position  of  Uruguay  is  in  keeping  with  the 

broader 
defending  multilateralism, 
non-intervention and the peaceful solution of disputes, 
which are the fundamental principles of our diplomacy. 
The  Eastern  Republic  of  Uruguay  has  expressed  on 
numerous  occasions,  and  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity 
to  reiterate,  that  we  are  against  the 
economic, commercial and financial blockade that has 
been  maintained  against  Cuba,  which  has  affected  the 
well-being of the Cuban people. 

As  a  matter  of  principle,  Uruguay  rejects  and 
does  not  recognize  in  its  national  legislation  the 
extraterritorial  application  of  the  domestic  legislation 
of  other  States.  In  this  regard,  we  condemn  the 
application  of  unilateral  coercive  measures  by  the 
United States against Cuba. These measures constitute 
a form of pressure that is an obstacle to dialogue. 
In  voting  in  favour  of  this  resolution,  Uruguay 

would 
to 
multilateralism  as  a  legitimate  instrument  to  resolve 
disputes between States and as an effective mechanism 
in  promoting  international  cooperation,  human  rights, 
security and mutual understanding between peoples. 
Mr. Solón (Plurinational State of Bolivia) (spoke 

in  Spanish):  The  blockade  against  Cuba  has  failed. 
Almost  50  years  after  the  imposition  of  that  inhuman 
siege, far from having isolated the small island and its 
heroic  people,  the  blockade  has  in  fact  triggered  the 
broadest possible show of international  solidarity. The 
clearest  example  of  that  solidarity  was  the  General 
Assembly’s  adoption,  for  the  nineteenth  time,  of  a 
resolution on this subject. 

One  hundred  and  eighty-seven  countries  —  that 
is,  97.39  per  cent  of  the  Member  States  of  the 
Organization — have rejected the blockade imposed by 
the forces of imperialism against a nation that had the 
courage  to  speak  with  its  own  sovereign  voice.  The 
resolution  that  has  been  adopted  today  (resolution 
65/6)  is  a  recognition  of  the  dignity,  resolve  and 
resistance of a nation, that, in the face of adversity, has 
not fallen to its knees.  

The  United  States,  which  claims  to  be  the 
defender  of  liberty,  violates  that  very  fundamental 
principle  itself  through  this  blockade.  The  only  thing 
commitment 
24 

10-60252 


that  this  blockade  does  is  violate  the  human  rights  of 
the  people  of  Cuba  and  generate  economic  losses  that 
have already exceeded $750 billion. 

It  is  unacceptable  to  defend  the  extraterritorial 
application of a legal standard sanctioned by a State in 
order  to  govern  another  without  the  approval  of  that 
State, as is the case with the well-known Helms-Burton 
Act.  The  United  States  Congress  cannot  regulate  the 
political  life  of  another  sovereign  State.  That  is  in 
absolute  contravention  of  every  founding  principle  of 
the United Nations. 

In  the  debate  preceding  the  adoption  of  the 
resolution,  we  were  struck  by  the  fact  that  the 
representative  of  the  United  States  said  that  the 
blockade  will  end  when  the  Cuban  people  enjoy  the 
freedoms  that  the  Government  of  the  United  States 
deems appropriate according to its own vision. This is 
a  confession  by  the  Government  of  the  United  States 
that  it  is  using  the  blockade  to  impose  its  hegemonic 
vision on the Cuban people. No country has the right to 
impose its own vision or principles on another country. 
We all have an obligation to respect the sovereignty of 
all the Member States of the United Nations. 

Cuba’s  response  in  the  face  of  the  imperialist 
blockade  is  an  example  for  all  humankind.  Cuba  has 
reacted  by  showing  solidarity  to  every  country  of  the 
world  that  has  requested  it.  Its  doctors  and  teachers 
have helped to save thousands from illiteracy, darkness 
and death in every region of the world. The most recent 
example  of  that  solidarity  is  the  widescale  support  it 
provided to the kindred Republic of Haiti. 

The greatest success of the blockade against Cuba 
has  been  to  isolate  the  United  States,  as  we  note  here 
today in the General Assembly. The arrogance and the 
imposition of sanctions by a reactionary and imperialist 
minority  in  the  United  States  will  never  defeat  the 
countries of  the world that have taken  Cuba into their 
hearts. 
Mr.  Gaspar  Martins  (Angola):  As  in  previous 

years, Angola voted in favour of resolution 65/6, which 
was presented to the Assembly by Minister for Foreign 
Affairs  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla  of  Cuba,  whose 
presence in the Assembly today we welcome. 

In  his  statement,  he  very  vividly  and  clearly 
described to us the dramatic impact of the sanctions on 
the  Cuban  population.  The  result  of  the  vote  is  very 
eloquent.  I  am  pleased  to  say  that  Angola  joins  the 
A/65/PV.36
adopted 
the 
long-term 
their 
freedom  of 
resolutions  urging 
international community once again in condemning the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by  the  United  States  of  America  against  Cuba.  We 
appeal  for  its  end. The  embargo,  which  has  lasted  for 
half a century, is a flagrant and systematic violation of 
the human rights of the Cuban people. 

For consecutive years, the General Assembly has 
overwhelmingly 
all 
countries,  in  compliance  with  the  United  Nations 
Charter  and  the  principles  of  international  law,  to 
retract  all  laws  and  measures  with  extraterritorial 
effects that compromise the sovereignty of other States, 
undermine the legitimate rights and interests of entities 
and  persons  under  the  jurisdiction  of  those  States  and 
trade  and  navigation. 
affect 
Regrettably,  however, 
economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba is still in place, 
in violation of those resolutions and in blatant violation 
of the principles of the United Nations Charter and the 
norms of international law. The General Assembly has 
today adopted a resolution — a result that is really very 
clear. 

the  United  States 
Administration  in  relation  to  a  few  aspects  of  the 
embargo  have  neither  been  relevant  nor  sufficient  to 
lessen  the  scope  of  the  economic  and  social  problems 
resulting from the embargo. There is a need to continue 
to  move  towards  the  lifting  of  the  embargo.  We 
encourage the United States Government to pursue this 
in  a  positive  direction.  We  look  forward  to  the  day 
when  the  General  Assembly  will  no  longer  need  to 
include this item on its agenda. 

By  adhering  to  the  principles  enshrined  in  the 
United  Nations  Charter  and  by  fulfilling  all  the 
pertinent resolutions adopted by the General Assembly, 
we 
the  norms  of 
international  law  by  supporting  the  need  to  eliminate 
coercive  economic  measures  as  a  means  of  political 
and economic persuasion. 
reaffirm  our  commitment 
The  changes  adopted  by 
to 


Programme of work 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

should like to inform members that,  at  10 a.m. in this 
Hall on Friday, 29 October, the General Assembly will 
consider draft resolution A/65/L.7, entitled “Review of 
the United Nations peacebuilding architecture”, jointly 
under  agenda 
item  13,  entitled,  “Integrated  and 
10-60252 

25 

A/65/PV.36 

coordinated  implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the 
outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and 
summits  in  the  economic,  social  and  related  fields”, 
and  agenda  item  115,  entitled  “Follow-up  to  the 
outcome of the Millennium Summit”. I wish to remind 
members  that,  as  scheduled,  we  will  hold  the  joint 
debate on those items on Tuesday, 23 November. 



  The meeting rose at 1 p.m. 
26 

10-60252 
