
A/65/PV.13
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

13th plenary meeting 
Friday, 24 September 2010, 9 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 
to  ensure 
This  week  has  been  rich  in  meetings  and  discussions 
on  environmental  issues.  I  should  like  particularly  to 
stress  the  appeal  that  was  made  at  the  high-level 
meeting  on  biodiversity 
that  concrete 
measures  are  taken  to  slow  the  alarming  loss  of 
biodiversity  across  the  globe.  This  was  an  important 
outcome  for  small  island  developing  States,  whose 
economies  are  highly  dependent  on  industries  such  as 
fisheries and tourism.  

Today,  it  is  on  the  specific  problems  of  small 
island  developing  States  that  we  wish  to  concentrate 
our  attention.  Small,  isolated  and  lacking  resources, 
these  States  are  also  increasingly  exposed  to  global 
environmental crises. Tsunamis, earthquakes and other 
natural disasters affect them in a totally disproportionate 
manner. Years and even decades of development can be 
simply  erased.  The  threat  of  rising  sea  levels  to  low-
lying atolls can leave nobody indifferent.  

In  the  face  of  these  challenges,  in  1994  in 
Barbados  the  international  community  adopted  the 
Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development 
of  Small  Island  Developing  States.  In  2005,  that 
Programme  was  enhanced  by  the  adoption  of  the 
Mauritius  Strategy.  Since  then,  major  progress  has 
been  made 
the 
environment. I note with pleasure that the Millennium 
Development  Goal  concerning  the  environment  is  on 
the  way  to  being  achieved.  But  the  overall  state  of 
affairs  is  less  promising.  Indeed,  for  other  objectives, 
particularly  poverty  reduction,  the  battle  is  far  from 
won. 
those  countries 
to  preserve 
in 





  The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m. 





High-level Review Meeting on the implementation of 
the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation 
of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable 
Development of Small Island Developing States 
Agenda item 20 (continued) 
Sustainable development 
  (b)  Follow-up to and implementation of the 
the  Mauritius  Strategy 
Mauritius Strategy for the Further 
Implementation of the Programme of Action for 
the Sustainable Development of Small Island 
Developing States 
  Draft resolution (A/65/L.2) 

The President (spoke in French): I declare open 

the High-level Review Meeting on the implementation 
of 
the  Further 
Implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action  for  the 
Sustainable  Development  of  Small  Island  Developing 
States.  This  meeting  is  held  in  accordance  with 
resolution 64/199 of 21 December 2009  and decisions 
64/555  of  15 April  2010  and  64/566  of  13  September 
2010. 

I  have  chosen  titles  for  each  of  my  introductory 
statements. For this morning’s meeting, I should like to 
suggest  the  following  title:  “In  the  family  of  nations, 
the most vulnerable deserve particular attention”.  

It is a great honour for me to take the floor as we 
conduct the five-year review of the Mauritius Strategy. 
for 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-54953 (E) 
*1054953* 


in 
and 
difficulties 
encountered 
A/65/PV.13 

We will devote the next two days to reviewing the 

progress 
the 
implementation of the Mauritius Strategy. That should 
allow us to move ahead, and I hope that this discussion 
will  lead  to  an  enhanced  political  will  to  reduce  the 
vulnerabilities  of  the  small  island  developing  States.  I 
call  on  members  to  reflect  on  ways  of  providing 
international  support  in  a  coordinated  manner  and  to 
establish partnerships, because in the family of nations 
the most vulnerable deserve particular attention. I hope 
that these discussions will be productive. 

I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  Secretary-General  of 
the United Nations, His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon. 
The Secretary-General: I am pleased to join the 

President  of  the  General  Assembly  in  welcoming 
participants  to  the  five-year  review  of  the  Mauritius 
Strategy.  Adopted  in  2005,  the  Strategy  sets  forth 
actions  and  strategies  for  advancing  the  sustainable 
development  needs  of  small  island  developing  States. 
Nineteen  priority  areas  are  addressed  in  it,  including 
the  original  themes  of  the  Barbados  Programme  of 
Action adopted in 1994. We are here to review progress 
made  towards  achieving  the  goals  of  the  Mauritius 
Strategy, and to examine what gaps remain and how we 
can address them with urgency and efficiency. 

The international community has long recognized 
the unique and particular vulnerabilities of small island 
developing  States  (SIDs).  These  arise  from  intrinsic 
characteristics  —  their  small  size,  isolation,  narrow 
resource  base,  limitations  on  economies  of  scale,  and 
high exposure to global environmental threats. 

In the past five years, these States have suffered, 
like  all  countries,  from  the  financial,  food  and  energy 
crises.  They  have  also  been  especially  vulnerable  to 
climate  change.  Some  small  islands  have  experienced 
loss  of  agricultural  land  and  infrastructure  already. 
There  have  been  negative  impacts  on  the  fishing  and 
tourism 
loss  of  biodiversity,  saltwater 
intrusion  and  degradation  of  terrestrial  and  wetland 
habitats,  and  destruction  of  human  settlements.  Some 
people  have  lost  their  livelihoods  and  felt  negative 
impacts on their health and access to fresh water. With 
the  threat  of  rising  sea  levels,  some  people  have  even 
emigrated to build lives elsewhere. 

We  have  seen  some  progress  made  in  redressing 
these  problems  through  the  Mauritius  Strategy.  The 
political  commitment  of  each  State  to  sustainable 
development has increased. National plans and policies 
industries, 
to 
the 
the  need 
for  SIDs 
to  simplify  and  streamline 
now reflect key principles of sustainable development, 
as  set  out  in  the  Mauritius  Strategy.  Several  countries 
have  embarked  on  economic  reforms  to  enhance  their 
resilience 
impacts  of  globalization.  The 
strengthening  of  regional  institutional  frameworks  has 
been  noted  in  some  subregions.  Commodity  exporters 
in  some  small  islands  have  seen  growth  in  trade 
opportunities.  The  export  growth  of  resource-poor 
islands,  however,  remains  well  below 
the  world 
average.  

On the whole, however, SIDs still lack sufficient 
access to financing for the dramatic changes they need 
to  make,  including  for  achieving  their  targets  in  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  They  also  need 
increased  financial  assistance  to  cope  with  external 
shocks. In view of their small size and limited capacity, 
we  need 
financing 
mechanisms,  especially  during  and  after  natural 
disasters such as the one we saw in Haiti.  
The review processes at the national and regional 

to 
levels  have  emphasized 
mainstream  climate  change  adaptation  plans 
into 
national  development  strategies.  They  also  need 
increased  access 
technologies  and 
technology  transfer  initiatives.  They  need  improved 
data  collection  and  information  systems  to  facilitate 
informed  decision-making.  Let  us  use  this  meeting 
today 
to  devise  new  ways  of  approaching  and 
redressing these issues. 

The  United  Nations  is  committed  to  supporting 
small  island  developing  States  at  the  international 
policy level and on the ground through its agencies and 
technical  cooperation  projects.  As  we  begin 
this 
meeting  following  the  successful  completion  of  the 
high-level  events  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals 
International  Year  of 
Biodiversity, let us bear in mind the synergies between 
intergovernmental  meetings  and  processes. 
these 
Progress 
the  Mauritius 
Strategy will bring us closer to the achievement of the 
MDGs  and  biodiversity  goals,  and  vice  versa.  I  wish 
the General Assembly a successful meeting. 

Secretary-General for his statement. 

I  should  like  to  turn  to  some  organizational 
matters  pertaining  to  the  conduct  of  the  High-level 
Review  Meeting.  With  regard 
length  of 
statements, I remind members that, in accordance with 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  thank  the 
implementation  of 
(MDGs)  and 
low-carbon 
in 
the 
to 
the 
to 
the 
2 

10-54953 


decision  64/566,  statements  will  be  limited  to  five 
minutes.  I  appeal  to  all  speakers  to  respect  that  time 
limit because we have a very busy day ahead of us and 
we  would  like  to  give  every  speaker  on  the  list  the 
same opportunity to give their message. In the light of 
that  given  time  frame,  I  appeal  to  speakers  to  deliver 
their statements at a normal speed so that interpretation 
may  be  provided  properly,  but  to  respect  the  five-
minute time limit. To assist speakers in managing their 
time, a light system has been installed on the speaker’s 
rostrum. I appeal for the cooperation of all speakers in 
observing the time limit on their statements.  

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Marcus  Stephen,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Nauru,  who  will  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
small island developing States. 
President Stephen: I have the honour to speak on 

behalf  of  the  Pacific  small  island  developing  States 
(SIDs) represented at the United Nations: the Federated 
States  of  Micronesia,  Fiji,  Kiribati,  the  Marshall 
Islands,  Palau,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Samoa,  Solomon 
Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu, and my own country, 
Nauru.  The  Pacific  SIDs  align  themselves  with  the 
statements  to  be  delivered  by  the  Honourable Tillman 
Thomas,  Prime  Minister  of  Grenada  on  behalf  of  the 
Alliance  of  Small  Island  States,  and  the  Honourable 
Edward Natapei, Prime Minister of Vanuatu, on behalf 
of the Pacific Islands Forum. 

that  SIDs  have  had  meaningful 
achievements,  and  I  commend  those  countries  that 
have made progress towards sustainable development. I 
also  want  to  thank  our  development  partners  working 
in the Pacific for their dedicated support.  

sustainable 
towards 
development has been considerably below expectations 
overall.  In  the  absence  of  concrete  targets  in  the 
Mauritius Strategy, the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs) offer useful insight. While some countries are 
on  track  to  meet  some  of  their  MDGs,  most  Pacific 
SIDs  are  severely  lagging  behind  other  groupings. 
Most alarmingly, the vast majority of Pacific SIDs are 
not  on  track  to  reduce  basic-needs  poverty.  In  some 
countries,  the  level  of  poverty  incidence  may  have 
actually  increased.  Our  vision  from  Barbados  has  not 
been  realized.  I  say 
the 
considerable  work  done  by  all  members  of  our  global 
community, but because  I  want to be very clear  about 
the gravity of the situation facing SIDs. 
to  minimize 
Regrettably, 
this  not 
is  clear 
progress 
It 
A/65/PV.13
the 
economic 
and 
isolation 
geographical, 
the  part  of 
to  eligibility  criteria 
from  major  markets, 
The  major  obstacle  to  progress  is  the  lack  of 

understanding  on 
international 
community regarding the many vulnerabilities that are 
unique and particular to SIDs. Our special combination 
of 
environmental 
characteristics  makes  many  of  our  development 
challenges  especially  complex  and  severe.  This 
includes 
small 
population  sizes  and  economies,  vulnerability 
to 
natural  disasters,  fragile  fresh  water  supplies,  narrow 
resource  bases,  costly  infrastructure,  and  extreme 
vulnerability to climate change and sea-level rise.  

Today,  SIDs  are  seeking  concrete  action,  and  I 
call on the international community to create a formal 
SIDs  category  with  structural  support  mechanisms  in 
the  areas  of  trade  and  finance.  These  mechanisms 
should specifically address the vulnerabilities of SIDs. 
We  ask  the  Secretary-General  to  lead  this  process  so 
that it receives the attention it deserves. 

Adequate financial support is necessary to enable 
the  sustainable  development  of  our  islands.  We  face 
major  obstacles  in  accessing  international  finance 
owing 
that  do  not  always 
accommodate  small-scale  projects.  In  addition,  the 
application  and  monitoring  requirements  are  often 
beyond  our 
limited  capacity.  Moreover,  official 
development  assistance  remains  short  of  the  agreed 
target  of  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national  income  —  a 
goal  set  40  years  ago  by  this  body.  The  global 
economic  crisis  should  not  deter  developed  countries 
from  providing  the  assistance  necessary  to  alleviating 
poverty  and  meeting  their  commitments.  A  small 
amount saved today will end up costing all of us much 
more tomorrow. Some of us are already paying a high 
price in terms of human suffering. In the words of the 
Secretary-General, “We should not balance budgets on 
the backs of the poor” (A/65/PV.3).  

serious 
shortcomings in United Nations institutional assistance 
to  SIDs.  Earlier 
for 
Development  Policy  analysed  United  Nations  support 
for  SIDs  and  concluded 
insufficient 
information  regarding  the  work  of  several  organs  and 
bodies of the United Nations and the World Bank. For 
those agencies that have been working on SIDs-related 
issues,  the  extent  to  which  their  work  was  guided  by 
the  Barbados  Programme  of  Action  or  the  Mauritius 
Strategy was not clear. It is essential that we critically 
and  comprehensively  evaluate  United  Nations  support 
review  has  also  highlighted 
the  Committee 
this  year, 
that 
it  had 
This 
10-54953 

3 

areas,  our 
efforts  need 
A/65/PV.13 

for  SIDs,  which  should  include  a  review  of  the 
mandates of the specialized agencies. The Pacific SIDs 
consider this to be an essential element of the political 
declaration that we will adopt tomorrow. 

The Pacific SIDs are highly dependent on marine 
resources  for  food  security  and  economic  growth,  yet 
these  resources  are  being  depleted  by  actions  beyond 
our control. While the Pacific has shown leadership in 
marine  biodiversity  conservation  through  the  creation 
of  protected 
to  be 
complemented by the elimination of global overfishing 
and  destructive  fishing  practices.  We  also  require 
foreign  investment  in  our  small  fishing  industries  so 
that  we  can  receive  a  more  equitable  share  of  the 
economic  benefit  from  our  valuable  fish  stocks.  This 
proposal would assist in our economic self-sufficiency. 

We  cannot  talk  meaningfully  about  sustainable 
development  without  also  addressing  climate  change. 
There  is  a  concerted  effort  in  some  quarters  to  lower 
expectations,  not  only  for  the  sixteenth  Conference  of 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change (UNFCCC) in Cancún, but for the 
UNFCCC  process  in  general.  This  is  deeply  alarming 
and  jeopardizes  sustainable  development  prospects, 
and in many cases the very survival of Pacific SIDs. I 
ask  all  nations,  developed  and  developing  alike,  to 
arrive  in  Cancún  ready  to  make  progress  on  a  fair 
solution that will ensure the survival of our islands.  

As leaders, we have a responsibility to protect the 
security  and  well-being  of  our  people.  We  cannot  fail 
them on this critical issue. We must also ensure that all 
United Nations organs, including the Security Council, 
respond actively to the climate crisis. Earlier this year, 
the  Pacific  SIDs  wrote  to  members  of  the  Security 
Council,  asking  them  to  put  climate  change  on  their 
agenda  in  accordance  with  the  resolution  this  body 
adopted  last  year. As  the  primary  organ  of  the  United 
Nations  entrusted  with  preserving  international  peace 
and security,  the Security Council must have a role in 
responding to the climate change crisis. 

In  conclusion,  I  extend  a  warm  invitation  to  His 
Excellency Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon to visit the 
Pacific  and  see  first-hand  the  realities  of  what  life  is 
really  like  in  our  islands  and  why  we  urgently  need  a 
formal  SIDs  category  and  an  ambitious  agreement  on 
climate change that provides our islands with a realistic 
prospect of survival. 
respectively, 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency 
Mr. Tillman Thomas,  Prime  Minister  of  Grenada,  who 
will  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Alliance  of  Small  Island 
States. 
Mr.  Thomas  (Grenada):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak  on  behalf  of  the  43  States  members  of  the 
Alliance  of  Small  Island  States  (AOSIS).  AOSIS 
wishes to associate itself with the statement to be made 
by the representative of Yemen on behalf of the Group 
of 77 and China. 

I  am  honoured  to  join  other  delegations  in 
congratulating  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as  President 
of  the  General Assembly  at  its  sixth-fifth  session.  Let 
me  assure  you  of  the  unconditional  support  of AOSIS 
as you guide  these important and crucial deliberations 
towards  a  fruitful  and  tangible  conclusion.  I  also  take 
this opportunity to extend our thanks and appreciation 
to  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Sylvie  Lucas  and  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Vanu  Gopala  Menon,  Permanent 
Representatives  of  Luxembourg  and  Singapore  to  the 
their  excellent 
United  Nations, 
leadership  as  co-facilitators 
informal 
consultations  of 
the  draft  political  declaration 
(A/65/L.2)  on  the  five-year  review  of  the  Mauritius 
Strategy for Implementation to be adopted at the end of 
this high-level meeting.  

We  would  also  like  to  renew  our  support  to 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, and to thank him for 
fulfilling resolution 62/191, which again pointed to the 
continued high vulnerability of small island developing 
States (SIDs) to external shocks, the adverse impacts of 
climate  change  and  natural  disasters,  and  the  setbacks 
experienced  as  a  result  of  the  recent  global  food,  fuel 
and financial crises.  

As  AOSIS  approaches  its  twentieth  anniversary, 
we  have  had  the  opportunity  carefully  to  review  our 
progress  within  the  context  of  the  implementation  of 
the  Mauritius  Strategy,  and  it  is  not  encouraging. The 
goal of my statement today is to draw attention to key 
areas  of 
to 
development  partners  have  been  denied.  The  truth  is 
that  we  have  great  difficulty  understanding  why  these 
requests  were  denied  given 
the  current  suite  of 
sustainable  development  challenges 
facing  small 
islands. 
the  Strategy  where  our 
for 
lead 
requests 
to 
the 
4 

10-54953 



the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation: 

According  to  the  Secretary-General’s  report  on 
considered 
ineligible 
increasingly 
the  access  of  SIDs 
in  a  number  of  small 

“Increasing  debt  burdens  have  been  causes 
for  concern 
island 
developing  States,  especially  in  the  Caribbean… 
Public  debt  levels  are  also  very  high,  above  100 
per  cent  of  GDP  in  several  cases.  In  contrast  to 
the  least  developed  countries  and  certain  other 
groups,  the  small  island  developing  States  that 
are not listed among the least developed countries 
have  not  qualified  for  debt  relief  assistance  and 
are 
for 
development aid.” (A/65/115, para. 41) 

Some of us have put mechanisms in place at the 
regional  level  to  help  promote  business  development, 
including  a  $250-million  development  fund  created  in 
2008  by  the  Caribbean  SIDs.  However,  the  lack  of 
capacity  has  constrained 
to 
international financing mechanisms, such as the Global 
Environment  Facility  and 
the  clean  development 
mechanism.  

We in SIDs consider climate change to be public 
enemy  number  one.  AOSIS  was  formed  to  provide  a 
vehicle  to  help  us  fight  for  our  very  survival.  It  was 
crystal clear to our members that if we did not agitate 
for a legally binding agreement to slow or stem global 
warming,  we  could  all  face  disappearance  below  the 
sea, like our brothers and sisters from parts of Kiribati, 
Tuvalu and the Maldives islands. It is as if many of us 
are already in the departure lounge of destruction; that 
is how serious the matter is.  

That is why we feel disregarded when we are told 
that our disappearance is something for the future. We 
say  “no” 
that  our 
disappearance  from  the  globe  is  happening  right  now. 
We  stood  by  helplessly  in  1999  and  watched  the 
disappearance  of  islands  in  Tuvalu,  and  today  we  are 
sadly  seeing  the  disappearance  of  burial  grounds  near 
the coast of the Marshall Islands and in Grenada. It is a 
fact that the SIDs are likely to be the largest economic 
losers,  with  large  displaced  populations  if  average 
global  temperatures  increase  beyond  1.5°  C  from 
pre-industrial levels. Such increases would correspond 
to greenhouse gas concentrations beyond 350 parts per 
million,  which  is  considered  the  threshold  for  the 
continued 
to 
livelihoods in small island States. 
that  belief.  The  fact 
survival  of 
ecosystems 
essential 
to 
is 
A/65/PV.13
to  occur 
that  more 

We  believe  that  the  192  parties  should  continue 
the  debate  on  a  long-term  temperature  target  and  a 
specific  time  frame  in  which  it  must  be  achieved. We 
also again request the preparation of a report based on 
the best scientific evidence available on the impacts of 
the  survival  of  SIDs  and  other  vulnerable  countries 
from  a  2°  C  average  increase  in  global  temperature 
above pre-industrial levels.  

One hundred and six States members of this body 
support  the  call  to  keep  the  average  temperature 
increase below 1.5° C, and of the remaining countries, 
41  are  undecided.  This  means 
than 
147 countries are not supporting the 2° C limit, and yet 
we  cannot  get  an  agreement  on  a  scientific  study  for 
the  1.5°  C  —  a  study,  not  a  policy,  not  a  binding 
agreement,  not  a  resolution.  The  question  is:  Why  is 
there opposition to the study and why has this request 
been  denied?  In  our  view,  completing  such  a  study 
would be a win-win proposition for all parties. 

Based  on  more  recent  scientific  evidence,  the 
time  for  significant  reductions  in  greenhouse  gas 
to 
emissions 
is  now.  According 
the 
International  Plant  Protection  Convention 
(IPPC) 
global  greenhouse  gas  emissions  must  be  on  a 
downward  trajectory  by  2015.  Therefore,  we  ask  that 
the  resolution  to  be  adopted  at  this  sixty-fifth  session 
include  the  fact  that  SIDs  need  1.5°  C  to  stay  alive. 
The tagline “1.5° to stay alive” must be considered as 
one  of 
the  most  serious  statements  offered  for 
consideration at this session of the General Assembly.  

Finally, on the issue of climate change, I ask that 
we  pause  to  keep  in  mind  and  thought  the  current 
suffering  and  death  from  weather-related  events  that 
our  brothers  and  sisters  across  the  globe  are  facing, 
from  Pakistan  to  China,  from  the  Marshall  Islands  to 
Central America and beyond, and in Russia. 

Despite  having  vast  renewable  energy  resources, 
including  our  tropical  oceans,  our  largest  natural 
resource, we are yet to derive significant benefits from 
their  use,  and  thus  far  we  have  missed  opportunities 
and  have  made  very  limited  progress  in  successfully 
transferring  key 
these 
resources.  

SIDs more than any other group have the highest 
energy  costs  in  the  world  because  of  our  more  than 
90 per cent dependency on imported petroleum for our 
survival.  Far  too  frequently  these  days,  we  find 
ourselves  defending  our  unique  and  particular 
technologies 
to  develop 
10-54953 

5 

for 
for 
supporting 
it  has  very 
reorganization, 
The  Mauritius  Strategy 
institutional  entities 
the 
A/65/PV.13 

vulnerabilities,  which  require  a  special  case  for 
development.  We  are  therefore  very  disappointed  that 
the  request  for  consideration  of  a  special  United 
Nations  category  for  SIDs  was  also  denied.  We  are, 
however, encouraged by the statements made by some 
of  our  partners  supporting  our  special  and  unique 
vulnerabilities. 

Implementation 
review  shows  a  clear  need  for  accountability  and  to 
consolidate  the  existing  responsibilities  of  the  various 
United  Nations 
share 
that 
responsibility 
sustainable 
development  of  SIDs.  We  need  to  put  an  end  to  the 
business-as-usual  institutional  arrangement.  Absent  at 
the  moment  is  an  effective  coordination  mechanism 
that links the work in SIDs of various agencies tasked 
with  implementation.  It  is  recognized  that  while  the 
Small  Island  Developing  States  Unit  is  or  has  been 
undergoing 
limited 
operational capacity within the SIDs. In this regard, we 
look forward to the Secretary-General’s report on how 
the  current  United  Nations  system  could  be  better 
organized  more  effectively  to  support  sustainable 
development in small island developing States. 
The  President:  Mr.  Prime  Minister,  I  would  ask 

you  to  come  to  a  conclusion.  You  have  already  used 
double the time allowed to a speaker. 
Mr.  Thomas  (Grenada):  Mr.  President,  we  wish 

you a very productive presidency, which we know will 
have an agenda that will certainly require your full and 
utmost attention. As you guide these deliberations to a 
close,  we  ask  that  issues  affecting  SIDs,  particularly 
those mentioned earlier, be iterated and supported with 
appropriate action, and that this will be reflected at this 
sixty-fifth  session  in  the  new  political  declaration 
(A/65/L.2)  crafted  by  the  members  of  the  General 
Assembly. May we move forward with our best efforts 
and the much-needed support of our partners. 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  The 
Honourable  Edward  Natapei,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic  of Vanuatu,  who  will  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
Pacific Islands Forum. 
Mr.  Natapei  (Vanuatu):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak  on  behalf  of  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum.  At  the 
outset, allow me to convey our appreciation to you, Sir, 
for  convening  this  high-level  conference  on  the  five-
year  review  of  the  Mauritius  Strategy  for  the  Further 
review  of 
the  10-year 
Implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action. 
Allow me  also to align my statement on behalf of the 
Pacific small  island developing States  (SIDs) with the 
address made by the Honourable Mr. Tillman Thomas, 
Prime Minister of Grenada, on behalf of the Alliance of 
Small Island States.  

It  is  timely  that  this  conference  is  being  held 
back-to-back  with 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  given  its 
inextricable  link  with  the  Mauritius  Strategy  as  a 
programme  for  how  small  island  developing  States 
might  be  supported  in  achieving  the  targets  of  the 
MDGs  and  other  sustainable  development  goals, 
despite the significant challenges before us.  

In view of the time constraints, I will go straight 
to  the  points  raised  in  my  statement.  The  Mauritius 
Strategy  review  for  the  Pacific  SIDs  concluded  that 
while performance has been good in terms of efforts at 
the  national  and  regional  levels  to  implement  the 
Strategy,  the  vulnerability  of  Pacific  SIDs  —  as 
underscored  by  the  impacts  of  the  global  economic 
crisis,  climate  change  and  natural  disasters  —  is 
increasing  while  their  ability  to  cope  is  not.  This 
conclusion  is  partly  drawn  from  the  Asia-Pacific 
regional  MDG  report  of  2009-2010,  which  shows  that 
the Pacific is one of the least successful performers in 
the  Asia-Pacific  region  regarding  the  MDGs  and 
remains the most vulnerable. 

including 
capacity  and  institutional  constraints  and  governance 
arrangements.  But  they  also  include  many  inherent 
peculiarities  of  the  Pacific  SIDs,  such  as  isolation, 
small area and population sizes, lack of resources, the 
high frequency of natural disasters, and vulnerability to 
the  impacts  of  climate  change.  These  challenges  and 
vulnerabilities  have  been  compounded  by  the  recent 
fuel,  food  and  financial  crises  and  will  continue  to 
worsen with the impacts of climate change. 

The  Mauritius  Strategy  review  has  identified  the 
following issues and priorities, in particular for Pacific 
SIDs:  climate  change;  fossil  fuel  dependency;  natural 
disasters; infrastructure, transport and information and 
communications 
least  developed 
countries  graduation;  fisheries;  national  development 
planning;  the  Pacific  Plan;  development  assistance; 
South-South  cooperation;  and  external  trade.  I  have 
merely listed the issues, but I hope that the details can 
be included in the statement later.  
There  are  many  reasons  for 
technology; 
this, 
the 
6 

10-54953 
and 
common 
challenges 



As  for  the  role  of  institutions,  the  Mauritius 
Strategy review calls on the United Nations and Pacific 
regional organizations to work more collaboratively in 
the  further  implementation  of  the  Strategy.  In  the 
Pacific region, the development and implementation of 
the Pacific Plan, endorsed by leaders in 2005, has taken 
on  the  role  of  facilitating  the  implementation  of  the 
Strategy,  with  a  particular  focus  on  strengthening 
regional cooperation and integration.  

It  remains  for  me  then  respectfully  to  ask  our 
international  partners,  friends  and  family  of  Pacific 
SIDs  to  put  the  political  declaration  (A/65/L.2)  into 
action  and,  in  doing  so,  to  recognize  that  while  SIDs 
share  many 
inherent 
constraints,  we  also  have  our  individual  peculiarities 
and  thus,  ultimately,  must  be  supported  from  the 
ground  up.  Our  own  national  plans  and  capacity 
should, wherever possible, be the focus of our partners’ 
engagement. Our own regional policies and institutions 
should be the focus wherever there is merit in gaining 
more  through  regional  approaches.  Finally,  when  our 
partners  contribute  to  global  efforts  and  programmes, 
they should be sure to reflect the particular and special 
needs of SIDs so that there is a level playing field for 
all of us, large or small, isolated or linked to the rest of 
the world. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdullah  Alsaidi, 
floor 
Permanent  Representative  of  the  Republic  of  Yemen, 
who  will  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and 
China. 
Mr. Alsaidi  (Yemen):  I  have  the  distinct  honour 

and  privilege  to  address  the  General  Assembly  on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China. The Group of 77 
and China attaches great importance to this High-level 
Review  Meeting  on 
the 
Mauritius  Strategy  for  the  Further  Implementation  of 
the  Programme  of  Action 
the  Sustainable 
Development of Small Island Developing States. 
The  Group  of  77  and  China  welcomes  the 

to  review 
convening  of 
the  Mauritius 
progress 
Strategy 
the 
Barbados Programme of Action. The Group of 77 and 
China  remains  concerned,  however,  that  despite  the 
acknowledged, unique and particular vulnerabilities of 
the  small  island  developing  States,  insufficient  steps 
have  been  taken  at  the  international  level  to  address 
the 
the  Further 
this  High-level  Meeting 
Implementation  of 
implementation  of 
implementation  of 
in 
for 
the 
for 
10-54953 

7 
and 
A/65/PV.13
levels  of 
committed 
themselves 
countries 
increased 
their  vulnerability  and  to  support  their  sustainable 
development.  
In  Barbados  in  1994  and  Mauritius  in  2005, 

to 
developed 
providing 
financial  support, 
technology  transfer  and  capacity-building  to  support 
the sustainable development of small island developing 
States.  However,  these  promises  and  commitments 
remain largely unfulfilled. The Group of 77 and China 
remains concerned over the state of implementation of 
the  Barbados  Programme  of Action  and  the  Mauritius 
Strategy.  Despite  the  progress  made  by  small  island 
developing States at the national and regional levels in 
building 
institutional  capacity  for  sustainable 
development by formulating strategies and action plans 
and  carrying  out  policy  reforms,  they  nevertheless 
continue  to  encounter  many  serious  problems  and 
constraints  that  have  slowed  down  or  impeded  the 
process of implementation. 

As the Secretary-General has stated, several small 
island developing States are not on track to achieve the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  some  have  even 
regressed.  In  particular,  the  impact  of  the  multiple 
global  crises  continues  to  threaten  progress  and  has 
further widened growing socio-economic disparities in 
many small island developing States. There is no doubt 
island 
that 
developing  States  have  become  more,  not 
less, 
complex in the past few years.  

Small  island  developing  States  continue  to  be 
particularly  vulnerable  to  natural  disasters  and  their 
resource  constraints  are  exacerbated  by  growing 
population  pressures, 
the 
continuous rise of sea levels, which pose a significant 
risk to small island developing States in their efforts to 
achieve  sustainable  development,  and,  for  some, 
represent  the  gravest  of  threats  to  their  survival  and 
viability.  

Moreover,  the  lack  of  financial,  technical  and 
human resources, relative to the enormous scale of the 
tasks 
to  be  accomplished,  represents  a  common 
challenge  faced  by  small  island  developing  States 
across 
needed 
infrastructure projects that require large investments — 
such  as  in  air  and  maritime  transport,  adaptation  to 
climate  change  and  sea-level  rise,  waste  management, 
energy, 
and 
regions.  Many 
the  challenges 
infrastructure, 
the  small 
faced  by 
critically 
tourism 
road 
climate 
change 
and 
the 
all 

A/65/PV.13 

telecommunications  infrastructure  —  lie  beyond  the 
resources of most small island developing States.  

The  negative  impact  of  the  global  financial  and 
economic  crisis  has  been  particularly  devastating  to 
small island developing States, given their openness to 
the  global  financial  and  economic  system  and  high 
dependence  on  a  narrow  range  of  income-generating 
sectors, such as tourism. 

The Group of 77 and China urges all development 
partners,  in  particular  developed  countries,  to  honour 
and  urgently  scale  up  all  commitments  related  to  the 
small island developing States, and in particular to the 
provision  of  new  and  additional  financial  resources, 
technology transfer and capacity-building. That will be 
necessary  if  small  island  developing  States  are  to 
achieve  the  objective  of  sustainable  development,  as 
set  out  in  the  Barbados  Programme  of Action  and  the 
Mauritius Strategy. In view of the unique and particular 
vulnerabilities  of  small  island  developing  States,  the 
Group  also  urges  the  international  community  and  the 
United  Nations  system  to  support  their  to  achieve 
sustainable development through the full and effective 
implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action 
and the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation. 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Heinz 
Fischer, Federal President of the Republic of Austria. 
President  Fischer:  Let  me  first  underline  that  I 

fully  associate  myself  with  the  statement  that  will  be 
given  shortly  by  Her  Excellency  Lady  Ashton  on 
behalf of the European Union.  

Austria  highly  values  today’s  High-level  Review 
Meeting  as  an  opportunity  to  conduct  a  thorough 
assessment  of  the  progress  made,  lessons  learned  and 
challenges  encountered  in  the  implementation  of  the 
Mauritius  Strategy  and  the  Barbados  Programme  of 
Action.  We  are,  after  all,  optimistic  that  the  political 
declaration to be adopted at this event (A/65/L.2) will 
create new momentum for tackling the challenges that 
small 
island  developing  States  (SIDs)  face.  The 
political  declaration  reaffirms  our  commitment  to  the 
Mauritius  Strategy  and  launches  important  analytical 
work 
and 
environmental progress more measurable. 

According  to  the  Secretary-General’s  report  on 
the  review  of  the  Mauritius  Strategy  (A/65/115),  the 
picture  five  years  after  the  Mauritius  conference  is 
that  will  make 
economic, 
social 
to 
to 
Institute 
the  efforts 
to  achieve 
mixed.  The  greatest  challenge 
the  sustainable 
development  and,  in  the  case  of  some  lower-lying 
countries, even the survival of SIDs is climate change. 
While  small 
island  developing  countries  are  not 
responsible  for  the  causes  of  the  problem,  SIDs  are 
among the first to confront its adverse impacts, such as 
environmental  degradation, 
loss  of  biodiversity, 
increased  water  scarcity  and  rising  sea  levels. Austria 
remains  committed  to  combating  climate  change  by 
working  towards  an  ambitious,  comprehensive  and 
legally binding treaty as soon as possible.  

Climate  protection,  as  we  all  know,  is  closely 
linked  with  other  areas  of  development  cooperation. 
Therefore,  Austrian  Development  Cooperation  treats 
climate change as a cross-cutting issue, integrated into 
programmes and projects in various sectors.  
Energy  is  one  of  the  sectors  closely  linked  to 

climate  change  and 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  Access  to  clean  and 
renewable  energy  is  key  to  ecologically,  economically 
and  socially  sustainable  development.  Thus,  energy  is 
one  of  the  priority  sectors  of  Austrian  Development 
Cooperation. In our bilateral programmes and projects, 
we  are  especially  focusing  on  renewable  energy  and 
energy efficiency. Within the United Nations, we have 
been  pushing  for  greater  recognition  of  energy  in  the 
context  of  development  policy  and  cooperation  for 
many  years.  We 
the 
Secretary-General’s  global 
ensure 
universal access to energy by 2030. In addition, Austria 
supports  the  work  of  UN-Energy  both  through  staff 
secondment  and  through  our  advocacy.  The  work  of 
Director-General  Kandeh  Yumkella 
is  very  much 
appreciated in Austria.  

Austria is also one of the countries supporting the 
Global Energy Assessment, an initiative established by 
the 
for  Applied  Systems 
Analysis.  In  our  cooperation  with  SIDs,  we  have,  for 
example,  forged  a  successful  Pacific  partnership, 
together  with  Italy  and  the  city  of  Milan,  which  is 
delivering  concrete  renewable  energy  projects  on  the 
ground  based  on  national  priorities.  This  programme, 
which started in 2007, has been prolonged for a further 
three years. 
Let me conclude by assuring you, Mr. President, 

that  Austria 
in 
international  efforts  to  strengthen  cooperation  with 
small island developing States and to have their special 
therefore  strongly  support 
to  participating 
is  committed 
International 
campaign 
8 

10-54953 


needs integrated into the main international events and 
negotiations. 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Danny 
Faure,  Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Seychelles, 
who  will  speak  on  behalf  of Africa,  the  Indian  Ocean 
and Mediterranean regions. 
Mr.  Faure  (Seychelles):  Seychelles  associates 

itself  with  the  statements  made  by  the  Prime  Minister 
of  Grenada  on  behalf  of  the Alliance  of  Small  Island 
States  (AOSIS);  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Yemen on behalf of the Group of 77 and China; and by 
the  President  of  Nauru  on  behalf  of  the  Pacific  small 
island developing States (SIDs). 
The five-year review of the Mauritius Strategy of 

Implementation comes at a time when, as I said in my 
speech  at  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  summit 
(see A/65/PV.5),  many  small  island  developing  States 
are  wondering  how  they  are  going  to  build  further  on 
what they have achieved without getting further mired 
in  unsustainable  debt.  That  is  why  Africa,  the  Indian 
the 
Ocean  and  Mediterranean 
international  community 
thorough 
assessment  of  the  progress  made,  lessons  learned  and 
constraints encountered in implementing the Mauritius 
Strategy  and  to  agree  on  what  needs  to  be  done  to 
further address the vulnerabilities of SIDs.  

In  the  meantime,  we  continue  to  argue  that  the 
inherent vulnerabilities and priority concerns of Africa, 
the  Indian  Ocean  and  Mediterranean  regions  and  of 
SIDs elsewhere, such as those related to small size and 
isolation, which cannot be changed, have to be factored 
into  the  multilateral  development  agenda  and  work 
programmes.  There  is  also  a  need  for  the  special 
circumstances  of  SIDs 
the 
international  governance  review  processes,  including 
in 
the  planned  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development 2012.  
Africa,  the  Indian  Ocean  and  Mediterranean 

regions  therefore  welcome  the  initiative  of  the  Indian 
Ocean Commission and the United Nations Department 
of  Economic  and  Social  Affairs 
to  work  out  a 
monitoring  and  evaluation  mechanism  that  could  be 
extended to cover all SIDs. Our islands also call for a 
review of the United Nations system’s support to SIDs, 
accompanied  by  the  integration  of  the  SIDs-related 
issues into the work programmes of all United Nations 
agencies. The gross domestic product or gross national 
to  be  considered 
regions  call  on 
the  context  of 
to  conduct  a 
in 
A/65/PV.13
funding 
On  climate  change, 
income  per  capita  criteria  that  currently  govern  the 
international aid delivery system disqualify most SIDs 
from  accessing  concessionary  financing.  Africa,  the 
Indian Ocean and Mediterranean regions argue that this 
is  misleading  and  does  not  reflect  the  multifaceted 
challenges  associated  with  our  economic,  social  and 
environmental vulnerabilities.  

for  adaptation 
remains  a  challenge  giving  rise  to  the  idea  of  an 
African,  Indian  Ocean  and  Mediterranean  regional 
implementation  programme  on  climate  change  and 
development  that  could  learn  from  the  experiences  of 
the Caribbean and Pacific SIDs. The programme could 
primarily  focus  on  the  establishment  of  an  African, 
Indian  Ocean  and  Mediterranean  regional  centre  of 
excellence for climate change and development and the 
implementation of pilot programmes for adaptation and 
low-carbon  development  programmes  at  the  national 
and local levels. 

At  this  stage,  Seychelles  would  like  to  echo  the 
call  of  the  Chair  of AOSIS  for  the  global  temperature 
increase  to  be  kept  well  below  1.5°  C  above  pre-
industrial levels, and for greenhouse gas concentrations 
in the atmosphere to be kept well below 350 parts per 
million  of  carbon  dioxide  equivalent.  I  must  humbly 
alert  everyone  in  this  Hall  today  that  the  small  island 
developing States will never tire of repeating this. How 
can we do so, when the AOSIS mantra of “1.5 to stay 
alive” means exactly what it says?  

A  special  challenge  for  us  in  Africa,  the  Indian 
Ocean  and  Mediterranean  regions  that  is  not  faced  by 
the Caribbean or Pacific islands is that we do not have 
a regional organization to bring us together so that we 
can  defend  and  promote  our  interests  as  a  group. The 
island  developing  States  of  Africa,  the  Indian  Ocean 
and Mediterranean regions are situated as far afield as 
the Atlantic Ocean off West Africa, the Western Indian 
Ocean  off  East  Africa,  the  Eastern  Indian  Ocean  and 
South  Asia.  Our  islands  thus  feel  the  need  for  an 
intraregional mechanism to support us in our countries’ 
respective  national  pursuit  of  sustainable  development 
and 
regional 
programmes, initiatives and partnerships. 

the 
international community to fulfil its commitment to the 
Mauritius Strategy for Implementation. On Wednesday, 
at  the  end  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
summit,  we  heard  world  leaders  —  from  Chinese 
to  end  with  an  appeal  for 
the  development  of 
Allow  me 
facilitate 
to 
10-54953 

9 
Japan  has 
(SIDs)  with  which 
A/65/PV.13 

Premier Mr. Wen Jiabao to American President Barack 
Obama  —  call  on  developed  countries  to  fulfil  their 
commitments in good faith and to put an end to hollow 
promises that are not kept. The small island developing 
States  ask  that  the  international  community  do  the 
same for the Mauritius Strategy for Implementation. 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will now hear an address by His Excellency Mr. Naoto 
Kan, Prime Minister of Japan. 
Mr. Kan (Japan) (spoke in Japanese; English text 

provided by the delegation): It is a  pleasure  for me to 
have  had  the  opportunity  today  to  meet  and  speak  in 
person with so many leaders of small island developing 
States 
created 
partnerships  in  a  wide  range  of  fields.  Once  again,  I 
wish  to  pay  a  deep  tribute  to  the  organizers  of  this 
High-Level Review Meeting. 

Overcoming the vulnerabilities of SIDs remains a 
challenge  that  the  international  community  urgently 
needs to address. Japan is an island country consisting 
of four major islands and more than 6,800 islets. Japan 
and  small  island  countries  have  inherited  from  our 
ancestors  beautiful  scenery,  the  blessings  of  bountiful 
oceans,  unique  biodiversity  and  indigenous  cultures. 
Because  the  people  of  Japan  are  islanders  ourselves, 
we  want  to  help  our  friends,  the  people  of  SIDs, 
overcome  their  vulnerabilities  and  achieve  sustainable 
development.  I should like to express Japan’s resolve 
in that regard and touch on the efforts Japan has made 
to  promote  the  sustainable  development  of  SIDs,  with 
particular  emphasis  on  measures  relating  to  natural 
disasters  and  climate  change.  I  also  wish  to  reaffirm 
our determination to make progress on this issue. 

Many  SIDs  are  located  in  disaster-prone  areas 
and  continue  to  be  wracked  by  earthquakes,  tsunamis, 
hurricanes and other natural calamities. The enormous 
damage  caused  by  the  earthquake  in  Haiti  in  January 
only  served  to  remind  us  of  the  magnitude  of  the 
damage  a  small  island  State  can  suffer  when  a  major 
disaster  strikes.  Immediately  after  the  earthquake, 
Japan  dispatched  disaster  relief  teams  to  the  stricken 
area, followed by a unit of Japan’s Self-Defense Forces 
(SDF)  consisting  of  approximately  330  engineers, 
which  was  sent 
the  United  Nations 
Stabilization Mission in Haiti. The SDF unit remains in 
Haiti,  engaged  in  reconstruction  work,  including  the 
removal  of  debris  and  road  repairs.  Japan  will  also 
implement  swiftly  and  effectively  the  approximately 
to  assist 

the  highest  priorities  of 
SIDs  are  particularly  vulnerable 
$100  million  in  assistance  it  previously  announced  it 
would  provide  for  Haiti’s  reconstruction. At  the  State 
and regional levels, efforts to build a disaster-resistant 
country  will  be important. Japan has much experience 
in  fighting  disasters  and  will  continue  to  support 
countries stricken by disaster. 

to  climate 
change. The rise in the sea level is a serious challenge 
and in many instances a threat to their very existence. 
Japan has been deeply moved by the urgent appeals of 
these island States and believes that assistance to SIDs 
must  be  one  of 
the 
international community in addressing climate change. 
The international community as a whole needs to act to 
counter  the  impact  of  climate  change. To  that  end  we 
must  establish  a  fair  and  effective 
international 
framework in which all major economies participate. It 
hardly  needs  to  be  pointed  out  that  SIDs  need  such  a 
framework  even  more  desperately 
than  do  other 
countries. For its part, Japan will cooperate with SIDs 
to  ensure  the  success  of  the  sixteenth  Meeting  of  the 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, which will 
be held in Mexico at the end of this year.  

the  spirit  of  partnership,  Japan  attaches 
importance  to  engaging  in  dialogue  with  SIDs  so  that 
the  assistance  it  provides  will  accord  with  their 
individual  needs  and  priorities.  Thus,  we  have 
extended  assistance  for  the  self-help  efforts  of  Pacific 
Island  countries,  and  hosted  the  Pacific  Island  leaders 
meeting  five  times  since  1997.  Next  month  in  Tokyo, 
Japan  will  host  an  interim  ministerial  meeting  in 
preparation  for  the  sixth  leaders  meeting  in  2012. 
Furthermore,  on  2  September  Japan  and  the  States 
members  of  the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM) 
held  the  second  Japan/CARICOM  ministerial  level 
conference in Tokyo and agreed to further enhance our 
partnership. 

Finally,  Japan  has  been  providing  assistance  to 
African  SIDs,  ensuring  that  their  specific  needs  are 
reflected in the measures implemented as in the context 
of  the  Tokyo  International  Conference  on  African 
Development process. 

At the heart of this dialogue and cooperation with 
SIDs is the concept of human security, which Japan has 
vigorously  promoted.  Human  security  focuses  on 
individual human beings who are seriously affected by 
the  wide  range  of  issues  —  the  environment,  health, 
In 
10 

10-54953 
into 
small 
Small 
those 
issues 
traditions 
these  assets 
comprehensively 
the  vulnerabilities  of 
the  challenges  remaining 
that  are  confronting  small 


education  — 
island 
developing  States.  It  emphasizes  the  importance  of 
addressing 
and 
promoting  active  cooperation  among  Governments, 
local  authorities, 
international  organizations,  non-
governmental organizations, and private institutions. 

island  States  have  beautiful  natural 
environments  and  age-old 
they  have 
inherited  from  their  ancestors,  and  they  need  to 
preserve 
the  future  while  also 
resolving the challenges they currently face. Japan will 
therefore  continue  to  be  a  firm  supporter  of  all  small 
island developing States.  
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Peter  Kent,  Minister  of 
State of Foreign Affairs of Canada. 
Mr.  Kent  (Canada)  (spoke  in  French):  Canada 

welcomes  this  important  opportunity  to  focus  on  the 
progress  made  and 
in 
addressing 
island 
developing States. 
(spoke in English) 

It  has  been  five  years  since  the  adoption  of  the 
Mauritius  Strategy,  and  while  much  has  been 
accomplished, there is still work to be done. Today, we 
are  here  to  help  strengthen  the  ability  of  small  island 
developing  States 
their  specific 
challenges  through  a  renewed  partnership  between 
them  and 
international  community.  Canada 
recognizes  that  small  island  developing  States  have 
demonstrated 
promoting 
sustainable  economic  and  development  principles  in 
their  development  strategies. We  applaud  the  progress 
that  has  been  made  in  the  implementation  of  the 
Mauritius Strategy. 

Canada  is  committed  to  helping  small  island 
States in their efforts through the provision of targeted 
assistance.  For  instance,  Canada  has  provided  $100 
million  to  the  World  Bank  Pilot  Programme  for 
Climate  Resilience,  targeting  funding  to  the  small 
island developing States in the Pacific, Caribbean, and 
Africa;  $400  million  for  international  climate  change 
efforts  this  fiscal  year,  with  support  to  the  most 
vulnerable  in  mind;  $20  million  —  the  largest  single 
contribution  —  for 
the  World  Bank’s  Caribbean 
Catastrophe  Risk  Insurance  Facility;  and  $600  million 
over  10  years 
the 
in  development  assistance 
commitment 
to 
respond 
to 
the 
their 
to 
A/65/PV.13
financial 
institutions, 
international  support.  One  of 
Caribbean Community (CARICOM) region. Given our 
long-standing historical and cultural ties to the country, 
Canada  has  made  aid  to  Haiti  a  particular  priority, 
providing  more  than  $500  million  in  assistance  to  the 
country. 

As  we  all  know,  efforts  at  the  national,  bilateral 
and  regional  levels  need  to  be  complemented  by 
effective 
the  key 
strengths of the United Nations is its broad network of 
experts,  making  it  uniquely  placed  to  address  the 
concerns and vulnerabilities of small island developing 
States. We must work to ensure that the United Nations 
continues  to  provide  strong  leadership,  and  that  the 
United Nations system gives due attention to and is an 
effective  partner  for  small  island  developing  States  in 
their efforts for sustainable development.  
In addition, all development actors, including the 

international 
regional 
development banks, the private sector and civil society, 
must  work  together.  The  private  sector  can  play  a 
particularly  important  role  by  encouraging  private 
sector  entrepreneurship  and  connection  to  markets  in 
order 
to  alleviate  debt,  create  employment  and 
facilitate  economic  integration.  An  example  in  this 
regard 
the 
Partnership for CARICOM Private Sector Development, 
which  seeks  to  improve  and  support  private  sector 
participation and investment in key areas and to enable 
financial  institutions  to  increase  their  provision  of 
loans  to  micro-,  small  and  medium-sized  enterprises. 
Canada  also  supports  the  secretariats  of  CARICOM 
and  the  Organization  of  Eastern  Caribbean  States  in 
their  policy  development  capacity  and 
building 
strengthening 
regional  and 
subregional market integration. 

In conclusion, it is only through cooperation and 
by working collectively to meet the objectives put forth 
in  the  Mauritius  Strategy  that  small  island  developing 
States  will  continue  to  make  progress  towards  its  full 
implementation.  As 
the 
international  community,  we  must  work  together,  as 
well  as  with  partners  in  the  private  sector,  to  address 
the challenges faced by small island developing States 
so  that  the  objectives  enshrined  in  the  Mauritius 
Strategy can be realized. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor  to  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Stefania  Prestigiacomo, 
Minister of Environment, Land and Sea of Italy. 
is  our  $20-million  commitment 
responsible  members  of 
the  management  of 
to 
to 
10-54953 

11 

to 
that 
political 
commitments 
review  shows 
Ms.  Prestigiacomo  (Italy):  Italy  wishes 
A/65/PV.13 


to 
associate  itself  with  the  statement  to  be  made  by  the 
High Representative of the European Union. 

Five  years  ago  in  Mauritius,  the  international 
community made a number of commitments to meeting 
the sustainable development goals and priorities of the 
Barbados  Programme  of  Action,  recognizing 
that 
sustainable  development  must  be 
the  national 
responsibility of small island developing States (SIDs) 
and  that  the  international  community  must  provide 
financial  and  technical  support  for  the  success  of  the 
Strategy.  The  present 
these 
commitments  have  to  some  extent  been  fulfilled 
compatibly  with  constraints  deriving  from  the  global 
crises  —  such  as  the  economic,  energy  and  food 
crises —  that  have  had  and  continue  to  have  serious 
implications for geographically isolated SIDs. 

Very  positive  results  have  indeed  been  achieved 
in  all  regions.  Most  SIDs  have  substantially  increased 
their 
sustainable 
development,  as  well  as  public  awareness  of  their 
importance.  They  have  made  considerable  efforts  to 
integrate  sustainable  development  principles 
into 
national  development  and  sectoral  strategies.  Most 
SIDs  have  adopted  policies  for  climate  change 
mitigation and adaptation, which in some cases include 
the achievement of the carbon neutrality objective and 
envisage a robust promotion of renewable energy. SIDs 
have  also  shown  strong  leadership  in  the  area  of 
protection  of  biodiversity  and  achieved  significant 
results  in  establishing  protected  marine,  coastal  and 
terrestrial areas.  

In  addition,  the  present  review  has  shown  that 
progress,  although  uneven  among  SID,  has  also  been 
made  in  the  areas  of  gender,  health  and  education,  as 
well  as  towards  the  achievement  of  environmental 
sustainability.  We  commend  in  particular  the  progress 
made in most regions for creating an enabling regional 
institutional  framework  aimed  at  maximizing  national 
efforts  in  key  areas,  such  as  the  containment  of  the 
climate  change 
the  prevention  and 
management of risks associated with natural disasters. 

In terms of financing, the review has shown that, 
while  on  the  one  hand  most  SIDs  have  indeed  used 
their  own  resources  in  the  implementation  of  the 
Mauritius  Strategy,  on  the  other  the  international 
community has played an important role in support of 
threat  and 
in 
of 
that 
inherent 
the  fact 
these  efforts  by  providing  financial  and  technical 
assistance in key strategic areas.  

Much,  however,  remains  to  be  done. The  review 
has  clearly  demonstrated  that,  in  spite  of  the  great 
efforts  made,  the  results  achieved  are  limited  with 
respect  to  expectations.  The  global  crises  of  the  past 
five  years  have  greatly  contributed  to  the  erosion  of 
progress  made.  Climate  change  adaptation  and  sea-
level rise remain among the greatest challenges to SIDs 
and a threat to their very existence. 
Italy  has  long  been  aware  of  the  indisputable 

injustice 
island  States 
contribute  the  least  to  global  climate  change,  yet  are 
affected  the  most  by  its  negative  consequences.  For 
this  reason,  we  have  concentrated  our  commitment  to 
the  sustainable  development  of  SIDs  in  the  area  of 
climate  change  and  related  sectors.  Italy  has  in  fact 
supported  a  number  of  key  initiatives,  such  as  the 
establishment 
the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM)  Climate  Change  Centre.  The  Centre  has 
become  a  lead  enabling  regional  institution  and  has 
laid  the  groundwork  for  a  regional  strategic  approach 
to climate change.  

Rising  sea  levels,  together  with  the  associated 
coastal  erosion  and  salt-water  intrusion,  escalation  in 
the  frequency  and  intensity  of  tropical  storms  and 
hurricanes,  and  disruptions  in  rainfall  and  freshwater 
supply  threaten  the  very  existence  of  the  CARICOM 
countries.  Our  hope  is,  of  course,  that  the  lessons 
learned from the establishment of the Centre and from 
the  concrete  actions  taken  by  that  institution  will  be 
valued  by  other  regions  seeking  to  maximize  the 
impact  of  scarce  national  resources  and  to  streamline 
the search for a solution to common threats. 
In addition, while the international community is 

still  debating  the  shape  of  the  global  agreement  that 
will  ensure 
in 
addressing  climate  change  mitigation,  Italy  has  begun 
to act by supporting a programme in the Pacific region 
that  stands  out  as  a  pragmatic  attempt  to  address  the 
urgency  of  adaptation  and  a  search  for  practical 
solutions  to  the  great  challenge  of  this  century.  The 
cooperation  programme  on  climate  change  and 
renewable 
the 
Municipality  of  Milan  and  the  Pacific  SIDs  has 
become,  after  only  three  years  of  implementation,  a 
successful  model  for  international  cooperation.  The 
the  equitable  participation  of  all 
energy  between 
Italy,  Austria, 
12 

10-54953 
from 
to  which 
the  success  stories  of 


programme is ongoing, and thus the lessons generated 
so far are preliminary.  

Nevertheless,  some  important  conclusions  can 
already  be  drawn.  We  believe  that  the  success  of  the 
programme is basically due to the strict application of 
the  ownership  principle,  according 
the 
development strategy remains in the hands of national 
Governments. Within the general goal of adaptation to 
climate  change  and  the  development  of  renewable 
energy,  each  participating  SIDs  has  established  the 
priorities  needed  to  build  resilience  vis-à-vis  its  own 
perception  of  national  and  local  vulnerability.  These 
priorities  derive  from  the  sustainable  development 
policies  and  strategies  established  by  the  Pacific  SIDs 
and  are  fully  taken  on  board  by  the  cooperation 
programme,  which  has  been  able  to  focus,  since  its 
inception, on the achievement of measurable, concrete 
results.  

Italy  will  continue  to  be  committed  to  the 
sustainable  development  of  SIDs.  We  will  spare  no 
effort  to  ensure  that  the  positive  lessons  that  can  be 
drawn 
Italian 
programme can be repeated and strengthened by other 
bilateral  and  multilateral  organizations  seeking  to 
maximize the impact of international aid programmes. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Gómez-
Robledo,  Deputy  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
United Mexican States. 
Mr. Gómez-Robledo (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): 

It is a pleasure for me to speak of behalf of Mexico at 
this  High-level  Review  Meeting.  As 
incoming 
President of the sixteenth Conference of the Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change  and  the  sixth  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
Kyoto Protocol that will take place in Cancún, Mexico, 
later  this  year,  I  should  like  to  address  the  challenges 
that  small  island  developing  States  face  as  a  result  of 
climate change. 

Mexico  welcomes  the  declaration  on  progress  in 
reducing  the  vulnerabilities  of  island  States.  As  a 
developing  country  with  more  than  11,000  kilometres 
of coast, we share many of the challenges facing small 
island  developing  States.  Their  challenges  are  also 
ours. Addressing the threats arising from disasters and 
water  scarcity,  improving  the  management  of  waste 
and coastal and marine resources, and reducing the loss 
of biodiversity, while at the same time seeking to fulfil 
the 
A/65/PV.13
in 
that 
the 
implementation  of 
aspirations  to  development  and  combating  climate 
change,  are  shared  priorities.  These  are  areas  that 
require  enhancing  existing  international  cooperation 
projects  and  strengthening  partnerships  with  small 
island developing States. 

I  recognize  the  role  that  small  island  developing 
States  have  played  in  positioning  their  challenges  and 
expectations in the international agenda, as reflected in 
the  adoption  of the Barbados Programme of Action in 
1994 and the Mauritius Strategy of 2005. However, we 
are  concerned 
these 
collective  decisions  has  been  partial,  to  say  the  least. 
Mexico  considers  that  the  international  community 
must  honour  our  commitments  and  take  concrete 
actions  for  the  effective  implementation  of  these 
proposals.  
The food, energy and financial crises have further 

strengthened  arguments 
favour  of  promoting 
sustainable  development  in  those  countries.  In  a 
globalized  world,  meeting  their  challenges  is  meeting 
our own. I should like to acknowledge the constructive 
and  lead  role  of  small  island  developing  States  in  the 
current  negotiations  on  climate  change.  Their  voices 
are  a  constant  reminder  of  the  tangible  and  serious 
risks of climate change, and of the urgency of reaching 
agreements on this matter.  

As  we  all  know,  Mexico  will  short  host  the  two 
conferences  on  climate  change.  In  Cancún,  we  will 
have a unique opportunity to make substantial progress 
in  our  fight  against  climate  change.  We  cannot  afford 
to  squander  that  opportunity.  There  are  encouraging 
signs  of  progress  in  such  key  areas  as  adaptation, 
financing,  technology  transfer,  capacity-building  and 
reforestation.  We  must  find  a  solution  to  these  global 
challenges  through  a  multilateral  system  in  which  all 
participate.  We  must  not  only  adopt  an  ambitious, 
comprehensive  and  balanced  package  that  will  lead  to 
effective action, but also establish the framework for a 
better  implementation  of  the  existing  climate  change 
regime. 

We are in a critical phase of negotiations. Time is 
short. It is imperative to make effective use of the brief 
time 
and 
irreconcilable  positions.  The  worst  scenario  would  be 
not 
island 
developing  States  will  be  the  first  to  benefit  if  we  do 
reach 
change. 
Negotiators  require  guidance  from  the  ministers  here 
reach  any  agreement.  The  small 
available,  moving 
agreements 
differences 
past 
to 
to 
combat 
climate 
10-54953 

13 

shall 
take  decisions 
A/65/PV.13 

present.  We 
and  make 
compromises.  At  the  end  of  the  day,  that  is  the  only 
way  we  can  make  progress  on  the  multilateral  track. 
We  cannot  afford  to  wait.  The  scientific  evidence  is 
clear. As time goes by, the opportunities to achieve our 
goals will be fewer and the costs will be greater.  

With  the  support  of  the  entire  international 
community  and  a  pragmatic  approach  aimed  at 
immediate action, Cancún 2010 could be the dawn of a 
new era of agreements on climate change. We must act 
with  the  sense  of  the  urgency  that  the  situation 
demands.  We  must  avoid  a  situation  where  those 
procrastinating  in  fulfilling  their  obligations  find  new 
excuses 
to  keep  on  doing  so.  Our  vulnerability 
threatens substantive damage to infrastructure, the loss 
of human lives and, for many nations, a step backwards 
in their march towards development. It is also a threat 
to  their  very  survival.  Economically,  it  is  not  only 
better but less expensive to act without delay. With that 
in  mind,  we  cannot  delay  reaching  agreements  in 
Cancún.  The  only  missing  piece  in  this  scenario  is 
political  will.  The  time  to  demonstrate  that  political 
will  is  at  the  upcoming  negotiations  to  take  place  in 
China a few days from now. 

floor 
Secretary-General of the Commonwealth of Nations. 
Mr.  Sharma  (Commonwealth  of  Nations):  On 

behalf  of  the  Commonwealth,  I  sincerely  thank  you, 
Sir,  for  giving  me  the  opportunity  to  speak  today. 
Almost  last  is  by  no  means  least,  because  26  of  the 
Commonwealth’s 54 member countries are small island 
developing States (SIDs), and because the Commonwealth 
can  claim  to  have  pioneered  the  very  science  of  the 
small State. It has worked alongside its member States 
and  with  partners  such  as  the  World  Bank.  With  the 
Bank, it produced two ground-breaking reports in 2000 
and  2005  on  the  inherent  vulnerabilities  and  strengths 
of  small  States,  and  particularly  of  remote  islands. 
From  the  Caribbean  and  Mediterranean  seas  to  the 
Atlantic,  Indian  and  Pacific  Oceans,  this,  then,  is  our 
constituency. Further, it is our place of work. From two 
countries  central  to  our  discourse,  I  shall  present  two 
examples 
of 
Commonwealth assistance, worth some £60 million, to 
small island developing States in the past five years.  

First,  I  cite  our  support  for  the  recasting  of 
national  export  strategies  —  for  instance,  in  being  a 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 
to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kamalesh  Sharma, 
transformative 
power 
of 
the 
their 
real  gross  domestic  product 
partner with Mauritius in its diversification from being 
a  mono-crop  sugar  economy  to  being  a  seafood  hub, 
upmarket  garments  exporter  and  a  centre  for  financial 
services,  distance  education  and  tourism.  Secondly,  I 
point  to  the  Commonwealth  support  in  trade  and 
tourism  —  for  instance,  in  helping  Barbados  to 
upgrade  its  trade  facilitation  systems  to  international 
to  bring 
standards,  and  also 
local  producers, 
entrepreneurs  and  communities 
its  national 
into 
tourism  strategy.  A  third  example  I  could  cite  is  the 
2 million  additional  square  kilometres  of  seabed  that 
we have helped 14 of our member countries claim right 
here in the United Nations. Imagine the prospects and 
the livelihoods that these can yield. 

For 30 years, starting long before Mauritius 2005 
or  Barbados  1994,  the  Commonwealth  has  been  a 
trusted  and  active  partner  in  the  cause  of  small  island 
developing  States,  both  in  speaking  and  in  acting  on 
their  behalf.  Yet  their  vulnerability  persists.  We  knew 
this well before our current economic woes. Growth in 
Commonwealth small States has long lagged behind. In 
2009, 
(GDP) 
contracted  by  1.74  per  cent,  compared  with  a  0.6  per 
cent  contraction  in  the  world  economy  and  a  2.4  per 
cent  growth 
in  developing  ones.  Investment  and 
remittances  went  down  and  inflation  went  up  —  in 
some countries doubling. 
It  is  the  Commonwealth’s  firm  belief  that  the 

policies and  programmes  of the international financial 
institutions  and  of  the  international  community  as  a 
whole  need  particularly 
special 
vulnerabilities  of  the  small  island  developing  States 
into  account  in  practical  ways.  Here,  very  briefly,  are 
four.  

First, and we believe foremost, SIDs need a way 
forward  on  trade,  on  which  they  are  so  dependent  but 
in  which 
they  face  great  human,  financial  and 
institutional  resource  constraints.  As  the  trade  debate 
continues,  the  impact  of  smallness  is  not  yet  fully 
acknowledged.  Some  key  small  agenda  objectives 
include  achieving  consensus  on  development-oriented 
international  trade  rules  and  ways  to  let  small  States 
bring their goods and services to larger markets. 

Secondly,  we  need  special  debt-relief  packages 
for  SIDs,  which  are  among  the  most  highly  indebted 
countries  in  the  world  —  some  with  public-debt-to-
GDP ratios of more than 100 per cent and many unable 
to  access  concessional  financing.  They  also  need 
take 
the 
to 
14 

10-54953 
to 
implementation  of 
in  accessing  export 
them  by.  The  Commonwealth 


solutions 
their  challenges 
finances and the money market.   

Thirdly,  SIDs  need  a  stronger  voice  in  the 
negotiation  and 
international 
agreements. They are willing to meet the standards set 
by  the  international  community,  but  if  they  are  to  do 
so — and thereby to benefit — they need to be given a 
reasonable  time  frame  in  which  to  meet  their  new 
requirements. They need to be part of the dialogue, not 
apart from it. 
Fourthly,  SIDs  need  access  to  climate  change 

finance.  For  some  Commonwealth  countries,  rising 
water  levels  pose  an  imminent  threat  that  is,  quite 
literally,  existential.  Many  have  taken  proactive  and 
principled  first  steps  towards  decarbonizing  their  own 
economies,  despite  being  among  the  smallest  emitters 
in the world, and yet most climate finance to date has 
passed 
is  already 
working  towards  practical  solutions;  the  wider  world 
must, too. 
The  Commonwealth  commits  to  working  closely 

with 
and  with 
development  partners  to  empower  its  and  the  world’s 
small 
recognizing 
vulnerabilities  and  strengths  alike,  we  can  build 
resilience,  and  resilience  will  speed  recovery  and 
strengthen sustainability. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kenneth  Baugh,  Deputy 
Prime Minister of Jamaica, who will speak on behalf of 
the Caribbean Community. 
Mr.  Baugh  (Jamaica):  I  speak  on  behalf  of  the 

the  Caribbean  Community 
14 States  members  of 
(CARICOM) 
the  United  Nations. 
CARICOM  delegations  associate  themselves  with  the 
statements  delivered  earlier  by 
the  Permanent 
Representative of Yemen on behalf of the Group of 77 
and  China  and  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  Grenada  on 
behalf of the Alliance of Small Island States.  

CARICOM  welcomes  the  convening  of  this 
High-level  Review  Meeting. We  consider  it  opportune 
to review the gains achieved, the challenges faced and 
the gaps to be filled in the implementation of the 2005 
Mauritius  Strategy  for  the  Further  Implementation  of 
the Barbados Programme of Action for the Sustainable 
Development of Small Island Developing States.  
island  developing  States.  By 
represented  at 
international 
the 
community 
A/65/PV.13
financial 
in  which 
to  achieve 
that  continue 
to  beset  small 
constraints  —  human, 

It is our hope that this Meeting will build on the 
1994  Barbados  Programme  of  Action,  which  remains 
the  development  blueprint  for  small  island  developing 
States (SIDs). It is no coincidence that this Meeting is 
being  held  in  the  same  week  in  which  our  leaders 
deliberated  on  ways 
the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by the target 
date of 2015. There is a symbolic relationship between 
the  MDGs  and  the  Barbados  Programme  of  Action. 
Progress  in  achieving  both  the  Programme  of  Action 
and  the  MDGs  goes  hand  in  hand.  If  the  challenges 
facing small island developing States are not addressed 
within the holistic rubric of achieving the MDGs, then 
most  small  island  States  will  be  in  danger  of  missing 
their MDG targets.  
While  SIDs  have  experienced  some  measure  of 

progress,  many  aspects  of  the  Mauritius  Strategy  still 
remain  unfulfilled  due 
to  significant  constraints 
affecting  its  implementation,  which  in  several  cases 
have only worsened with time. This is reflective of the 
and 
capacity 
technical — 
island 
developing  States.  These  constraints  are  made  worse 
by  the  debilitating  effects  of  successive  waves  of 
global crises that have buffeted our countries and have 
exposed  our  limited  coping  capabilities.  Indeed,  the 
inherent  vulnerabilities  of  small  island  States  make 
them  the  least  resilient  and  the  most  susceptible  to 
external shocks such as the food, energy, financial and 
environmental crises that in recent years have retarded 
the  growth  prospects  and  sustainable  development  of 
our countries.  

The adverse effects of the economic and financial 
crises  on  small  States  are  particularly  felt  in  trade, 
investment,  aid,  tourism  and  remittance  flows,  which 
are  critical  to  the  economic  livelihood  of  small  island 
developing  States.  We  acknowledge  the  assistance  of 
the development partners and regional and multilateral 
institutions in helping SIDs to address these challenges 
and constraints. It is evident, however, that much more 
sustained  attention  and  targeted  action  are  needed  to 
ramp  up  support  for  this  group  of  countries.  SIDs  are 
highly  motivated  to  help  themselves,  but  in  order  to 
empower SIDs to bridge that existing gap and thereby 
increase their social and economic resilience, action on 
several fronts is required. 

The  first  is  development  financing.  Financial 
resources  and  investment  in  small  island  developing 
States  are  critical.  We  urge  development  partners  to 
10-54953 

15 

is 
Second 
sustainability.  With 
their  previous  commitments 
A/65/PV.13 

fulfil 
in  respect  of 
financing.  This  should  be  additional  to  the  resources 
especially  earmarked  for  small 
island  developing 
States.  There  must  also  be  broader  recognition  of  the 
vulnerabilities  of  small  island  developing  States  that 
have  been  categorized  as  middle-income  countries. 
This represents a specific  challenge for States such  as 
Jamaica,  as  this  categorization  hinders  access  to 
sources  of  concessionary  financing  and  restricts  or 
even  removes  access  to  development  financing.  The 
use of gross domestic product or gross national income 
as an indicator is not an adequate measure of the state 
of development of the majority of SIDs. Other factors, 
such  as  high  energy  and  transportation  costs  and 
vulnerability  to  natural  hazards  and  disasters,  must  be 
included in this equation. 

a 
debt 
classification  as  middle-  and  high-income  countries, 
these  small  States  do  not  have  access  to  international 
debt-relief initiatives. In this context, CARICOM once 
again urges international recognition of the underlying 
debt problem of highly indebted small island States so 
as to facilitate access to financing that can ensure debt 
sustainability  and  provide  the  necessary  fiscal  space 
for  economic  empowerment  and  capacity-building. 
This includes concessionary loans and grants and debt-
for-equity swaps.  
Third are expansion and access to export markets. 

We  fully  recognize  that  trade  is  key  to  the  economic 
growth  of  small  island  States.  A  worrying  factor  for 
many  States  is  persistent  trade  deficits,  which  have 
worsened  since  the  financial  crisis.  Reversing  this 
trend will require strategies to build up the productive 
capacities  of  SIDs,  the  diversification  of  markets  and 
the  development  of  small  and  medium  enterprises, 
among  others.  It  is  important  in  this  context  that  our 
development  partners  scale  up 
their  aid-for-trade 
initiatives  to  support  the  building  of  supply-side 
capacity  and  infrastructure.  We  also  call  for  the 
conclusion  of  the  Doha  Round  of  trade  negotiations 
with continued focus on the development dimension. 
Fourth  is  sustainable  development.  Support  for 

the  sustainable  development  of  SIDs 
its 
dimensions must be at the core of our actions if we are 
meaningfully to address the multiple challenges facing 
them,  as  well  as  new  and  emerging  concerns. 
Addressing  poverty  and  investing  in  resources  for 
development,  including  human  and  natural  resources, 
is critical to attaining sustainable development. 
in  all 
Fifth 
are 
climate 
including 
change 
to 
adaptation 
and 

mitigation.  A  major  challenge 
the  sustainable 
development  of  small  island  States  is,  of  course, 
climate  change.  As  we  are  all  aware,  small  island 
States are the most affected by yet have contributed the 
least  to  the  problem  of  climate  change.  Tackling  the 
impact of climate change requires resources beyond the 
capabilities  of  most  small  island  States  to  implement 
the  necessary  adaptation  and  mitigation  measures.  It 
requires  the  provision  of  adequate  financing,  support 
for  adaptation,  capacity-building  and 
technology 
the  development  of  renewable 
transfer, 
energy sources and green technology. 

Sixth is the strengthening of institutional support. 
CARICOM  joins  others  in  calling  for  a  review  of  the 
United  Nations  systems  delivery 
to  SIDs.  This 
evaluation should include ways in which to mainstream 
SIDs-related  issues  in  the  programmes  of  the  United 
Nations.  We  also  urge  the  provision  of  adequate 
financing  and  staffing  to  strengthen  the  Small  Island 
Developing States Unit in the Department of Economic 
and  Social Affairs  in  order  to  ensure  that  appropriate 
attention  is  given  to  SIDs-related  issues. At  the  same 
time,  for  Caribbean  countries  it  is  important  that  the 
regional  coordinating  mechanism  of  the  Economic 
Commission  for  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean 
subregional  headquarters  in  Port  of  Spain  receive  the 
requisite funding to allow it to carry out its mandate. 

Many  challenges  continue  to  confront  small 
island  developing  States.  We  are,  however,  optimistic 
that 
the 
island  developing 
international  community,  small 
States  will  be  able  significantly  to  overcome  their 
challenges  and  chart  a  renewed  course  with  the  full 
implementation  of  various  commitments  contained  in 
the Mauritius Strategy and the Barbados Programme of 
Action. It is our hope that this High-level Review will 
signal  the  start  of  a  renewed  partnership  aimed  at 
supporting the growth and sustainable development of 
small island developing States. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor  to  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Catherine  Ashton,  High 
Representative  of  the  European  Union  for  Foreign 
Affairs and Security Policy. 
Ms. Ashton (European Union): I am delighted to 

be at this important meeting in order to demonstrate the 
European  Union’s 
support  of 
development and the Programme of Action.  
partnership  with 
commitment 
continued 
through 
in 
16 

10-54953 
At 
The  European  Union 



this  week’s  summit,  we  all  agreed  on 
facilitating  steps  to  ensure  that  we  will  reach  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015. The 
European  Union  will  continue  to  play  its  part  in  this 
important  endeavour.  In  our  new  MDG  initiative,  the 
European  Union  will  offer  to  the  African,  Caribbean 
and  Pacific  countries  most  committed  and  in  need  a 
targeted  plan  of  up  to  €1  billion  to  achieve  better 
results  in  meeting  the  most  off-track  Millennium 
Development Goals. The Mauritius Strategy provides a 
unique  and  exclusive  cooperation  framework.  The 
European Union welcomes this and remains committed 
to supporting the implementation of its priorities.  

Small island  developing States  (SIDs), not being 
a  homogenous  group,  still  face  significant  and  quite 
diverse challenges. The report of the Secretary-General 
(A/65/115),  while  recording  substantial  progress,  also 
notes that efforts to address gaps in the basic exposure 
and vulnerability of SIDs are still required.  

long-standing 
cooperation  in  place  to  help  SIDs  address  their 
challenges — for example, the Global Climate Change 
Alliance, in which SIDs, together with least developed 
countries,  are  identified  as  the  priority  beneficiary 
group for cooperation on climate change. We have also 
established  a  coordinated  series  of  measures  that  help 
to  cushion  the  human  impact  of  the  economic  crisis 
and boost economic growth in developing countries.  

Climate  change  is  one  of  the  major  challenges 
faced by small island developing States. It threatens the 
very  existence  of  some  islands,  combining  additional 
development  challenges  with  potentially  significant 
security  challenges.  In  the  climate  negotiations,  our 
ultimate  goal  remains  an  ambitious,  comprehensive, 
legally-binding  global 
framework.  We  encourage 
others to join us in this effort.  

Members  may  rest  assured  that  the  European 
Union’s commitment to fighting climate change has not 
diminished  since  Copenhagen.  We  have  inscribed  our 
20-per cent pledge into law. We are willing to increase 
our  target  to  30  per  cent,  and  this  could  be  part  of  a 
second commitment period under Kyoto, but only if all 
developed 
developing 
countries  do  their  fair  share  of  emission  reduction 
efforts  and  if  we  address  properly  the  weaknesses 
currently  undermining  the  environmental  integrity  of 
the Kyoto Protocol.  
countries 
has 
and 
advanced 
10-54953 

A/65/PV.13

We  should  follow  the  guidance  of  our  heads  of 
State  under  the  Copenhagen  Accord,  supported  by 
almost  140  countries  accounting  for  more  than  80  per 
cent  of  global  emissions.  Copenhagen  is  our  compass 
and  provides  the  basis  for  significant  short-term  and 
long-term financing of climate action. We are keeping 
our promises to provide €2.4 billion between 2010 and 
2012  period  for  fast-start  financing  activities,  with  a 
balanced  allocation between adaptation and mitigation 
and  with  special  emphasis  on  the  least  developed 
countries, small island States and Africa. For 2010, we 
have already confirmed pledges of €2.39 billion. 

Let  me  conclude  by  reiterating  the  European 
Union’s full engagement in this process. We are in this 
for the long haul. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor to His Excellency Ambassador Frederick Barton, 
representative  of  the  United  States  of  America  to  the 
Economic and Social Council. 
Mr.  Barton  (United  States  of  America):  The 

United  States  applauds  the  progress  small  island 
developing  States  (SIDs)  have  made  in  fulfilling  the 
Mauritius  Strategy  over  the  past  five  years.  We 
appreciate the opportunity to reflect on progress made 
and we are proud of our robust partnerships with SIDs 
throughout  the  world.  We  look  forward  to  working 
together  to  address  the  steps  remaining  to  achieve  the 
goals  of  sustainable  development.  In  particular,  the 
United  States  wants  to  highlight  its  partnering  with 
SIDs  on  work  in  disaster  preparedness,  biodiversity 
and climate change. 

The  United  States  seeks  to  help  SIDs  build 
resiliency against both extreme natural events — such 
as  hurricanes, 
tsunamis  and  earthquakes  —  and 
unknown future  challenges. We work  closely with our 
partners in the Caribbean and the Pacific to support the 
collection  of  data  using  sensors  and  satellites, 
recorders  and  buoys,  weather  balloons  and  water 
samples, and in using that data to conduct the research 
it takes to improve our collective understanding of the 
Earth systems we depend on and our ability to predict 
and forecast normal and extreme events.  
Our  SIDs  partners  are  key  to  these  efforts.  The 

areas of our planet that are least observed are the large 
expanses  of  ocean.  These  areas  are  essential  to  our 
understanding  of  the  climate  system,  and  therefore  to 
our  ability  to  understand  what  we  can  expect  from  a 
changing climate, making it possible for us all to take 
17 
sustainable 
increase 
livelihoods, 
the  partnership’s 
strategic  priorities 
A/65/PV.13 

action to mitigate and adapt in the face of that change. 
That  would  not  be  possible  without 
the  active 
engagement  of  SIDs  and  regional  collaboration  in  a 
global context.  

The  United  States  shares  the  SIDs’  commitment 
to  the  preservation  of  biodiversity.  The  United  States 
contributes  more  than  $300  million  annually  to  our 
development partners for biodiversity conservation. We 
applaud  the  strong  leadership  demonstrated  by  SIDs 
through their own efforts and by their focusing global 
attention  on  coral  reefs  and  marine  conservation 
through such initiatives as the International Coral Reef 
Initiative,  the  Micronesia  Challenge  and  the  Coral 
Triangle Initiative. The United States has supported the 
Global Island Partnership since its launch in 2006. We 
share 
for 
integrating  policy  and  action  on  island  conservation 
and 
ecosystem-based 
adaptation and mitigation, and addressing the threat of 
invasive alien species.  

SIDs  are  especially  vulnerable  to  the  impacts  of 
invasive  alien  species  on  biodiversity,  ecosystems, 
agriculture,  trade  and  human  health.  Invasive  alien 
species 
the  vulnerability  of  native  and 
endemic  species  in  SIDs  to  extinction.  From  70  per 
cent  to  95  per  cent  of  the  world’s  terrestrial  species 
extinctions have occurred on islands, and most of these 
were directly caused or facilitated by invasive species. 
However, the physical isolation of islands allows them 
to  implement  measures  that  prevent  the  establishment 
of  invasive  alien  species  or  eradicate  them  after 
introduction.  The  United  States  recognizes  the  truly 
cross-cutting  nature  of  threats  posed  by  invasive  alien 
species and the continuing need to address them on the 
regional and global scales. We will continue to partner 
with  SIDs  in  developing  methods  and  lessons  learned 
in  addressing  invasive  alien  species  that  could  be 
applied to non-SIDs as well. 

President  Obama  believes  that  the  future  lies  in 
our  making  the  transition  to  a  green  economy. As  the 
United States pursues multiple paths towards achieving 
this  goal,  it  will  continue  to  support  SIDs  in  their 
efforts  to  green  their  economies.  Many  SIDs  are 
endowed  with  extensive  potential  renewable  energy 
resources.  Renewable  energy  promises  to  reduce  the 
dependence  of  SIDs  on 
for 
transportation and electricity generation that has led to 
severe  trade  imbalances.  The  United  States  continues 
to support technical assistance, as well as international 
imported 
fuels 

to 
in  Copenhagen  at 
financing efforts, including access to investment funds, 
to  assist  SIDs  in  developing  their  renewable  energy 
resources  and  achieve  their  sustainable  development 
goals. 

President Obama is also committed to addressing 
climate  change  more  broadly  through  the  balance  that 
he  and  others  agreed 
the 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change.  The 
United  States  strongly  believes  that  this  balance  must 
be maintained if we are to move forward on the issue. 
We are firmly committed to working with SIDs to put 
in  place  a  robust,  comprehensive  and  sustainable 
regime  that  delivers  significant  mitigation  actions  by 
all  major  economies,  ensures  that  such  actions  are 
carried  out  in  a  transparent  manner,  and  provides  a 
framework of support for developing countries in their 
efforts  to  mitigate  and  adapt  to  the  adverse  effects  of 
climate change. 

On  this  last  point,  the  United  States  recognizes 
the  significant  threat  that  climate  change  poses  to  the 
development of SIDs and, for certain low-lying island 
States,  their  long-term  viability.  For  instance,  we 
recognize that access to clean water is made even more 
challenging by climate change due to rising sea levels, 
salt-water 
in  precipitation 
patterns.  The  economic  challenge  of  providing 
adequate  water  and  wastewater  infrastructure  is  a 
serious  burden  for  many  SIDs.  We  take  these  threats 
seriously and are making SIDs a focus of our efforts to 
expand bilateral and multilateral adaptation assistance. 
In  the  fiscal  year  2010-2011,  we  will  commit  $100 
million  to  help  vulnerable  SIDs  to  adapt  and  build 
resilience to the impacts of climate change. 

When  we  met  in  Mauritius  in  2005,  we  were  in 
the middle of the immediate aftermath of the tsunami. 
Today, we recall other recent disasters: the earthquake 
that  struck  Haiti  and  the  tsunami  that  struck  Samoa, 
Tonga and American Samoa. In each of these tragedies, 
we  take  strength  from  the  collective  efforts  of  the 
international community to prepare and respond to the 
disasters.  We  do  not  know  what  the  future  holds.  We 
can assume that we will be surprised by unanticipated 
events.  The  Mauritius  Strategy  provides  a  guide  to 
preparing  for  that  unknown  future.  The  United  States 
seeks to be a reliable partner with SIDs as they achieve 
their sustainable development goals and prepare for the 
challenges ahead. 
intrusion  and  changes 
18 

10-54953 
The  President


in  French):  Before 

adjourning  the  meeting,  let  me  remind  representatives 
that  round  table  1,  entitled  “Reducing  vulnerabilities 
and strengthening resilience of small island developing 
States” will take place at 3 p.m. in Conference Room 2  

(spoke 
A/65/PV.13
of the North Lawn Building. I wish participants a most 
productive round table discussion.  

  The meeting rose at 11.10 a.m. 




10-54953 

19 
