
A/65/PV.38
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

38th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 28 October 2010, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 
family  of  our  dear  brother  and  friend,  His  Excellency 
the  Honourable  David  Thompson,  Prime  Minister  of 
Barbados. 

It was only in July, in Kampala, that the African 
Union hosted representatives from the Caribbean at its 
Fifteenth  Summit.  It  is  therefore  unimaginable  that 
today,  three  months  later,  we  bid  farewell  to  a  dear 
brother,  who  stood  and  spoke  so  passionately  of 
Afro-Caribbean bonds. 

Premier  Thompson’s  death  is  a  loss  not  only  to 
the people of Barbados, but also to the people of Africa 
and  the  Caribbean.  It  is  a  tragedy  to  lose  someone  so 
young.  Premier  Thompson  was  Prime  Minister  of 
Barbados at such a young age and sadly departed at a 
time  when  he  was  involved  in  so  many  world  affairs. 
So  much  was  on  the  agenda  between  Africa  and  the 
Caribbean through his initiatives, and it is a tribute to 
his  legacy  that  we  who  still  survive  should  fulfil  his 
vision. 

Africa has lost a true friend, and Africa will miss 
him very much. Our thoughts and prayers are with his 
dear wife and three daughters, as well as the people of 
Barbados  and  the  whole  Caribbean  region.  May  his 
soul rest in peace. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call on the representative of China, who will speak on 
behalf of the Asian States. 
Mr.  Wang  Min  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  We 

learned with sadness of the untimely death of the Prime 
Minister  of  Barbados,  The  Honourable  David 





  In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Francisco 
Carrión-Mena (Ecuador), Vice-President, took the 
Chair. 


  The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m. 

Tribute to the memory of His Excellency Mr. David 
Thompson, Prime Minister of Barbados 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): Before 

proceeding  to  the  items  on  our  agenda,  it  is  my  sad 
duty  to  pay  tribute  to  the  memory  of  the  late  Prime 
Minister  of  Barbados,  His  Excellency  David 
Thompson, who passed away on Saturday, 23 October. 
On  behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  request  the 
representative  of  Barbados  to  convey  our  condolences 
to the Government and people of his country and to the 
bereaved family of His Excellency David Thompson. 

I now invite representatives to stand and observe 
a  minute  of  silence  in  tribute  to  the  memory  of  His 
Excellency David Thompson. 

  The members of the General Assembly observed a 
minute of silence. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give the floor to the representative of Malawi, who will 
speak on behalf of the African Group. 
Mr.  Bowler  (Malawi):  It  is  with  a  heavy  heart 

that, I, on behalf of the African Group, His Excellency 
Ngwazi  Professor  Bingu  Wa  Mutharika,  President  of 
the Republic of Malawi and Chairperson of the African 
Union, my fellow Ambassadors and indeed on my own 
behalf,  express  Africa’s  heartfelt  condolences  to  the 


This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-60667 (E) 
*1060667* 



A/65/PV.38 

Thompson.  As  the  Chairman  of  the  Asian  Group,  I 
would like to extend, on behalf of  all the members  of 
the  Group,  our  sincere  sympathy  and  condolences  to 
his  family  and 
the  Government  and  people  of 
Barbados. 

Prime  Minister  Thompson  was  an  outstanding 
statesman.  Together  with  the  people  of  Barbados,  he 
made  tremendous  efforts  to  overcome  the  severe 
impact of the international financial crisis and achieved 
great  progress  in  building  their  country.  Under  his 
leadership, Barbados also played a very positive role in 
promoting political solidarity and regional cooperation 
in the Caribbean Community (CARICOM). 

Prime Minister Thompson demonstrated his long-
standing  commitment  to  the  advancement  of  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations.  As  a 
member  of 
the  High-level  Panel  on  Global 
Sustainability,  he  made  a  great  contribution  to  the 
United  Nations  and  the  international  community  in 
tackling  climate  change  and  ensuring  sustainable 
development. 
The death of Prime Minister Thompson is a great 

the  people  of  Barbados  and 
loss,  not  only 
CARICOM  but  also  to  the  entire  United  Nations.  We 
will never forget him. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call on the representative of Croatia, who will speak on 
behalf of the Eastern European States. 
Mr.  Vilović  (Croatia):  On  behalf  of  the  Eastern 

European Group of States and in my personal capacity, 
I have the sad duty to extend our heartfelt condolences 
to  the  family,  the  people  and  the  Government  of 
Barbados  on  the  death  of  their  Prime  Minister,  His 
Excellency Mr. David Thompson. 
During  his  short  term  as  the  Prime  Minister  of 

Barbados,  Mr.  Thompson  demonstrated 
strong 
leadership  within  the  Caribbean  Community  family 
and  was  firmly  committed  to  the  region’s  goals.  His 
love  for  the  people  and  country  of  Barbados  was 
unconditional.  As  a 
leader  with  a  mission,  his 
legacy —  which  extends  far  beyond  that  of  a  Prime 
Minister  and  the  finite  margins  of  this  world  —  will 
remain with us. 
Although  Mr.  Thompson’s  potential  as  an 

outstanding 
the 
Caribbean  region  was  unjustly  cut  short,  we  can  all 
benefit  from  the  vision  of  this  talented  individual  and 
leader  of  Barbados  and  within 
to 

The  Eastern  European  Group  hopes 
his  leadership,  integrity  and  friendship,  which  was 
inspirational to so many. 

that 
Mr. Thompson’s  leadership  will  be  continued  in  the 
future to benefit the countries of the Caribbean region 
and the world as a whole. All our thoughts remain with 
the people of Barbados in their time of mourning. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call on the representative of Trinidad and Tobago, who 
will  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean States. 
Mr.  Charles  (Trinidad  and  Tobago):  I  have  the 

sad  duty  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  States  as 
the  General 
Assembly  pays  tribute  to The  Honourable  David  John 
Howard  Thompson, 
former  Prime  Minister  of 
Barbados. 

Prime Minister Thompson was a very outstanding 
lawyer, orator and skilled debater. He was the protégé 
of  Barbados’  founding  Prime  Minister,  the  late  Errol 
Walton Barrow. At the young age of 25, he succeeded 
his  mentor  as  the  parliamentary  representative  of  the 
rural St. John constituency. He represented that district 
from 1987 until his untimely passing last Saturday. An 
affable  personality,  he  was  highly  regarded  by  his 
constituents,  who  viewed  him  as  a 
loving  and 
compassionate  individual,  and  one  who  was  always 
accessible. 

Prime Minister Thompson was very committed to 
the transformation of his country during a very difficult 
world economic and financial crisis. But he never lost 
faith  in  the  ability  of  his  people  to  overcome  those 
challenges,  challenges  that  were  largely  driven  by 
external forces. As an integrationist, he championed the 
cause of regional integration and the full and effective 
implementation  of  the  Caribbean  Community  Single 
Market  and  Economy.  However,  he  envisioned  an 
integration  movement  that  would  eventually  embrace 
the  wider  Caribbean  region,  in  partnership  with  Latin 
America. 

Our  region  has  lost  one  of  its  young,  brilliant 
minds,  a  member  of  the  new  generation  of  leaders 
charged with the responsibility to continue to build our 
Caribbean  civilization  as  an integral and equal  part  of 
the international community. 
The  untimely  passing  of  any  leader  is  always 

marked  with  sadness  and  outpourings  of  grief. 
10-60667 
2 



However,  it  is  even  more  profound  when  that  leader 
dies at the relatively young age of 48. More difficult to 
comprehend  is  a  situation  where  that  leader  was 
revered by his people and displayed great passion and 
love for his country and region. 

We, the members of the Group of Latin American 
and Caribbean States, while mourning the loss of Prime 
Minister  Thompson,  are  consoled  by  the  fact  that 
although  he  was  at 
the  helm  of  his  country’s 
Government for little more than two years, he made a 
significant  contribution  to  his  country  and  region. We 
are confident that the footprints left by Prime Minister 
Thompson  will  be  used  as  a  beacon  by  successive 
generations  in  their  quest  to  make  a  meaningful 
contribution  to  the  development  of  Barbados  and  the 
region. 

On  behalf  of  the  Group  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  States,  I  wish  to  extend  my  condolences  to 
the delegation of Barbados, the family of the late Prime 
Minister Thompson and the Government and people of 
Barbados.  May  this  outstanding  Caribbean  visionary 
rest in peace. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give the floor to the representative of Spain, who will 
speak on behalf of the Group of Western European and 
other States. 
Mr. Yáñez-Barnuevo (Spain) (spoke in Spanish): 

On behalf of the Group of Western European and other 
States, and also on behalf of my country and myself, I 
wish  to  convey  to  the  people  and  Government  of 
Barbados our deepest condolences for the loss of their 
Prime  Minister,  Mr.  David  John  Howard  Thompson. 
Mr. Thompson  was  an  important  figure  in  his  country 
and will be remembered for, among many other things, 
promoting community action and propelling integrated 
regional  action  in  the  Caribbean,  as  well  as  his 
contribution  to  the  tasks  of  the  United  Nations, 
particularly  with  regard  to  development  and  global 
sustainability. 

a 
distinguished  politician  as  well  as  an  eminent  lawyer. 
After  receiving  his  law  degree  from  the  University  of 
the  West  Indies,  he  worked  as  a  lawyer  and  law 
professor  for  many  years,  until  his  election 
to 
Parliament  in  1987.  He  was  appointed  Minister  of 
Community  Development  and  Culture  in  1991,  and 
Minister  of  Finance 
the 
opposition  between  1994  and  2003,  and  after  a  brief 
Prime  Minister  David  Thompson  was 
in  1992.  After 
leading 
A/65/PV.38
to 
the 
for 
the  entire 
region  and 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 
period  in  which  he  returned  to  the  bar,  he  was 
appointed Prime Minister in 2008. 

The members of the Group of Western European 
and  other  States  wish  to  voice  our  appreciation  and 
gratitude 
the  significant  contribution  Prime 
Minister David Thompson made, not just to his country 
but 
international 
community. We would like to express to his family and 
the whole people of Barbados our affection and sincere 
condolences.  Our  thoughts  and  sympathies  are  with 
them at this difficult time. 

give the floor to the representative of Barbados. 
Mr.  Goddard  (Barbados):  I  wish  to  thank  you, 

Mr. Vice-President, and to commend your graciousness 
in  arranging  for  the  Assembly  to  honour  the  late 
beloved  Prime  Minister  of  Barbados,  The  Honourable 
David  John  Howard  Thompson,  Queen’s  Counsel  and 
Member of the Parliament of Barbados. I also wish to 
thank my colleagues, who spoke so eloquently, kindly 
and  movingly  in  tribute  to  the  life,  contributions  and 
achievements of the late Prime Minister. On behalf of 
the Thompson family, the Government of Barbados and 
the  people  of  Barbados,  I  acknowledge  the  many 
condolences received. All this I do with profound pain 
and sincere humility. 
I  believe  it  is  appropriate  that  I  shed  some  light 

on the life of David John Howard Thompson and on his 
achievements  and  contributions  to  Barbados,  and,  of 
course, to the wider Caribbean and the world. 

He  was  born  in  London  on  25  December  1961, 
but  grew  up  and  was  schooled  in  Barbados.  He  was 
awarded  one  of  our  highest  academic  honours,  a 
Barbados Exhibition, while at Combermere School. He 
subsequently returned to his alma mater to teach for a 
short period before entering the law faculty at the Cave 
Hill  campus  of  the  University  of  the  West  Indies, 
graduating with honours in 1984. He obtained his legal 
education  certificate  from  the  Hugh  Wooding  Law 
School  in  Trinidad  in  1986.  It  was  at  Combermere 
School  that  his  debating  and  public-speaking  skills 
were  honed,  where  his  insatiable  appetite  for  reading 
developed,  and  where  his  wide  knowledge,  self-
confidence  and  emerging  maturity  were  publicly 
noticed. 

Returning to Barbados in 1986, he joined the law 
firm headed by Errol Barrow, another great and revered 
10-60667 

3 
The  Democratic  Labour  Party 
A/65/PV.38 

Barbadian, who led Barbados to independence in 1966. 
It was at this time, between 1986 and 1988, that David 
Thompson  was  a  part-time  law  tutor  at  his  old  law 
faculty. 

He was elected to serve as President of the youth 
arm of the Democratic Labour Party between 1980 and 
1982.  In  1987,  following  the  death  of  Prime  Minister 
Errol Barrow, David Thompson successfully contested 
the  constituency  of  St.  John,  which  he  continued  to 
represent  until  his  death.  David  Thompson  was 
appointed  to  his  first  Cabinet  position  in  1991,  as 
Minister  of  Community  Development  and  Culture.  He 
held  the  portfolio  of  Minister  of  State  in  the  Ministry 
of  Finance  in  1991  and  1992  and  of  Minister  of 
Finance in 1993 and 1994. 

the 
Government  and  Thompson  became  leader  of  the 
opposition, a position he held between 1994 and 2003. 
After subsequently losing two consecutive elections, he 
relinquished  the  post  of  opposition  leader  in  2003, 
returning  to  the  helm  of  the  party  in  2006  to  capture 
the  Government  in  January  2008.  He  became  Prime 
Minister of Barbados at age 46. 

Along  with  his  wide-ranging  portfolio  as  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  of  Finance,  Economic  Affairs 
and  the  Civil  Service,  he  also  held  lead  responsibility 
for the implementation of the Caribbean Single Market 
and  Economy  in  the  Caribbean  Community  quasi-
cabinet. 

It was not only in public service and politics that 
David  John  Howard Thompson  excelled.  He  headed  a 
substantial  legal  practice  whose  specialties  include 
insurance,  property, 
and 
corporate  law.  In  addition,  he  undertook  consultations 
across  the  region  and  beyond,  including  consultations 
for 
the  Caribbean 
Community Secretariat, the Commonwealth Secretariat 
and the Commonwealth Parliamentary Association. 

range of civic, cultural and sporting organizations. 

David Thompson  endeared  himself  to  the  people 
because  he  was  firmly  grounded.  There  was  nothing 
about  him  that  was  artificial,  contrived  or  insincere. 
Despite  his  many  achievements,  he  remained  humble, 
approachable and possessed of an inimitable dry wit. 

Minister,  his 
Despite  the  brevity  of  his  tenure  as  Prime 
the 
The  late  Prime  Minister  was  affiliated  with  a 
the  Caribbean  Law  Institute, 
legacy  would  have 
to 
include 
international  business 

lost 
financial 
the  cause  of 
following.  He  promoted  the  family  as  the  basic  and 
crucial  social  unit  with  his  Family  First  project.  He 
conceived  and  promoted  the  Friends  of  Barbados 
programme,  a  project  aimed  at  mobilizing 
the 
goodwill,  skills  and 
the 
resources  of 
Barbadian  diaspora  to  the  collective  benefit  of  the 
island.  He  promoted  HELP,  meaning  “housing  every 
last  person”,  a  housing  solutions 
initiative.  He 
introduced  free  bus  transportation  for  schoolchildren 
and  summer  camp  for  school-age  children,  including 
preschoolers.  He  championed 
the 
physically  challenged  and  the  cause  of  youth.  He 
initiated  the  transformation  of  the  Barbados  economy 
into  a  green  economy.  Finally,  he  drafted  his  wife,  a 
professionally  qualified  physical  educationist, 
to 
spearhead the fight against non-communicable diseases 
through  lifestyle  changes,  especially  in  relation  to 
exercise and diet. 

This sketch provides a background, a context for 
the outpouring of grief and the sense of disappointment 
and  loss  among  the  people  of  Barbados,  as  well  as 
among  our  brothers  and  sisters  across  the  Caribbean 
and  indeed  the  wider  international  community  on  the 
death of the Prime Minister. He was widely respected, 
greatly  admired  and  deeply  loved.  His  death  evoked 
expressions of sorrow, regret and disbelief from every 
sector and corner of Barbados as well as the Caribbean 
region. 

The late Prime Minister Thompson was a staunch 
believer in multilateralism and the United Nations. He 
also believed that small States were the glue that kept 
the  fabric  of  the  multilateral  system  together  and  that 
no  effort  should  be  spared  to  defend  the  principles 
upon which this great Organization was founded. 

It  was  in  this  spirit  that  he  graciously  accepted 
the  invitation  from  the  Secretary-General  to  serve  on 
the  High-level  Panel  on  Global  Sustainability.  He 
shared  the  vision  of  the  Secretary-General  that  a  new 
paradigm  for  sustainable  growth  and  prosperity  was 
required  to  ensure  environmental  sustainability  and 
social development. The late Prime Minister Thompson 
was  prepared  to  offer  the  Barbados  model  as  an 
example for developing countries. 

To be cut down in the prime of life, to pass away 
while at your professional zenith, to succumb while at 
the  pinnacle  of  your  political  achievement  would  to 
some  appear  as  mere  mockery  of 
legitimate 
expectations  of  a  life.  Naturally,  such  a  situation 
4 

10-60667 
regret, 


conjures  up  emotions  of 
sadness  and 
disappointment.  Let  us  resign  ourselves  to,  and  take 
solace in, accepting that the deeds of the Almighty are 
not to be questioned. 

In closing, I respectfully suggest that in the death 
of  Prime  Minister  Thompson  the  world  has  lost  an 
ardent  defender  of  democracy,  human  rights,  social 
progress for all and multilateralism. The Caribbean has 
lost a committed regionalist. Barbados has lost a leader 
of  great  promise.  Margaret  and  Howard  have  lost  a 
loving  son.  Siblings  have  lost  an  exemplary  mentor. 
Worst of all, his wife Mara and daughters Osha, Misha 
and  Oya-Marie,  have  lost  the  centre  of  their  world.  I 
have  lost  a  close  neighbour  and  a  true  friend.  May  he 
rest in peace — gone but not forgotten. 





Agenda item 70 
Report of the International Court of Justice 

  Report of the International Court of Justice 
(A/65/4) 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/65/309) 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

General Assembly  will  now  consider  the  report  of  the 
International Court of Justice covering the period from 
1 August 2009 to 31 July 2010, which is contained in 
document  A/65/4.  May  I  take  it  that  the  General 
Assembly  takes  note  of  the  report  of  the  International 
Court of Justice? 
It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  In 

connection  with  this  agenda  item,  the  Assembly  also 
has  before  it  a  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  his 
Trust  Fund  to  Assist  States  in  the  Settlement  of 
Disputes  through  the  International  Court  of  Justice, 
which has been circulated in document A/65/309. 

International Court of Justice. 
Mr.  Owada:  Before  starting  my  presentation 

today,  I  wish  to  associate  myself,  on  behalf  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  with  the  tributes  and 
condolences  expressed  by 
the  representatives  of 
different  regional  groups  at  the  loss  of  the  Prime 
Minister of Barbados, Mr. David Thompson. 

It is an honour and privilege for me to address the 
General Assembly for the second time as the President 
I  call  upon  Mr.  Hisashi  Owada,  President  of  the 
A/65/PV.38
of the International Court of Justice and to present the 
report of the Court for the period from 1 August 2009 
to 31 July 2010 (A/65/4). 

I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate 
Mr. Deiss on his election as President of the Assembly 
at its sixty-fifth session, as well as the Vice-Presidents 
of  the  Assembly  at  this  session  on  their  respective 
elections. I wish them all every success in their offices. 

As  is  traditional,  I  would  like  to  turn  to  an 
overview  of  the  judicial  activities  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  during  the  past  year.  The  Court  is 
gratified  to  note  that  the  international  community  of 
States  continues  to  place  its  trust  in  the  Court  with 
respect to a wide variety of legal disputes. 
Since I addressed the Assembly last October (see 

A/64/PV.30),  the  Court  has  rendered  one  judgment  on 
the  merits,  in  the  case  concerning  Pulp  Mills on  the 
River  Uruguay  (Argentina  v.  Uruguay),  and  has  given 
one  advisory  opinion,  in  the  case  concerning  the 
Accordance  with  international  law  of  the  unilateral 
declaration  of  independence  in  respect  of  Kosovo.  It 
also has handed down an order on the admissibility of 
a counterclaim in Jurisdictional immunities of the State 
Italy)  and  an  order  discontinuing 
(Germany  v. 
in  Certain  Questions 
concerning 
proceedings 
diplomatic relations (Honduras v. Brazil). 
in 

hearings  and  deliberations  in  a  number  of  cases, 
including  the  case  concerning  Ahmadou  Sadio  Diallo 
(Republic  of  Guinea  v.  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
the 
Congo), 
International  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All 
Forms  of  Racial  Discrimination  (Georgia  v.  Russian 
Federation)  and  the  case  concerning  Territorial  and 
Maritime Dispute (Nicaragua v. Colombia). 

These cases have involved States from all regions 
of  the  world,  and  the  subject  matter  has  been  wide-
ranging,  extending  from  classical 
issues  such  as 
diplomatic protection and sovereign immunity to issues 
of  contemporary  relevance  such  as 
international 
environmental law. 

As  members  will  no  doubt  note,  in  one  case, 
concerning  the  Accordance  with  international  law  of 
the unilateral declaration of independence in respect of 
Kosovo,  the  Court  was  requested  by  the  General 
Assembly  to  give  an  advisory  opinion.  This  case 
received  active  and  lively  attention  from  the  United 
the  case  concerning  Application  of 
the  Court  has  been  engaging 
Moreover, 
10-60667 

5 

the  mills  and 
A/65/PV.38 

Nations and its Member States, including many of the 
States  represented  in  this  Hall  today.  The  Court  is 
grateful  for  the  cooperation  it  received  from  the 
Secretariat  and  the  Member  States  that  participated  in 
the proceedings at the written and oral stages. 

In  the  autumn  of  2009,  following  my  address  to 
the Assembly, the Court continued its deliberations in a 
great  number  of  cases  filed  before  it.  As  a  result  of 
those  deliberations,  the  Court’s  first  decision  during 
the period under review was reached on 20 April 2010, 
when the Court rendered its judgment in Pulp Mills on 
the  River  Uruguay  (Argentina  v.  Uruguay).  The  case 
involved 
the  planned  construction,  authorized  by 
Uruguay,  of  the  Celulosas  de  M’Bopicuá  S.A.  (CMB) 
pulp mill and the construction and commissioning, also 
authorized by Uruguay, of the Orion pulp mill, on the 
River Uruguay. 

Argentina argued that the authorizations to build, 
the  actual  construction  and,  where  applicable,  the 
commissioning  of 
their  associated 
facilities  constituted  violations  of  obligations  arising 
under  the  Statute  of  the  River  Uruguay,  a  bilateral 
treaty  signed  by  the  parties  on  26  February  1975.  It 
was  alleged  by  the  applicant  that  those  acts  had  been 
taken  by  Uruguay  in  violation  of  the  mechanism  for 
prior  notification  and  consultation  prescribed  by 
articles  7  to  13  of  the  Statute  —  that  is  to  say, 
procedural  violations. Those  allegations  were  made  in 
respect  of  both  the  CMB  mill,  whose  construction  on 
the  River  Uruguay  was  ultimately  abandoned,  and  the 
Orion mill, which is currently in operation. 

Argentina further contended, on the subject of the 
Orion mill and its port terminal, that Uruguay had also 
violated  three  provisions  of  the  Statute  that  related  to 
the  protection  of 
the  river  environment.  It  was 
Argentina’s  contention  that  the  industrial  activities 
authorized by Uruguay had, or would have, an adverse 
impact on the quality of the waters of the river and the 
area  affected  by  it  and  had  caused  significant  damage 
to the quality of the waters of the river and significant 
transboundary  damage  to  Argentina  —  that  is  to  say, 
substantive violations. 

Uruguay,  for  its  part,  argued  that  it  had  violated 
neither  the  procedural  nor  the  substantive  obligations 
laid down by the Statute. 

In the light of the extensive scientific evidence at 
issue  in  the  case,  the  question  arose  of  the  precise 
status  of  scientific  experts.  That  issue  came  up  in 
particular  because  certain  scientific  experts  presented 
evidence  to  the  Court  in  the  oral  hearings  as  counsel 
rather  than  as  experts  or  witnesses.  On  that  issue,  the 
Court stated, in paragraph 167 of its judgment: 

in 
their 
as 
counsel 
“Regarding those experts who appeared before it 
as counsel at the hearings, the Court would have 
found it more useful had they been presented by 
the  Parties  as  expert  witnesses  under Articles  57 
and  64  of  the  Rules  of  Court,  instead  of  being 
included 
respective 
delegations.  The  Court  indeed  considers  that 
those  persons  who  provide  evidence  before  the 
Court  based  on  their  scientific  or  technical 
knowledge  and  on  their  personal  experience 
should 
the  Court  as  experts, 
witnesses  or  in  some  cases  in  both  capacities, 
rather  than  as  counsel,  so  that  they  may  be 
submitted  to  questioning  by  the  other  Party  as 
well as by the Court.” 
Another 
issue  raised 
the  context  of 
testify  before 
in 

the 
scientific  evidence  was  that  of  how  the  Court  should 
determine  the  authority  and  reliability  of  the  studies 
and  reports  submitted  by  the  parties,  which  were 
sometimes  prepared  by  experts  and  consultants 
retained  by  the  respective  parties,  and  at  other  times 
prepared  by  outside  experts,  such  as  the  International 
Finance  Commission.  Assessing  those  expert  reports 
could  be  particularly  complicated  because  they  often 
contain conflicting claims and conclusions. 

Ultimately,  the  Court  concluded  that  for  the 
purposes of the judgment, it did not find it necessary to 
enter  into  a  general  discussion  on  the  relative  merits, 
reliability and authority of the studies prepared by the 
experts and consultants of the parties. On that point the 
judgment concluded, in paragraph 168, that 

“despite the volume and complexity of the factual 
information submitted to it, it is the responsibility 
of 
the  Court,  after  having  given  careful 
consideration to all the evidence placed before it 
by  the  Parties,  to  determine  which  facts  must  be 
considered  relevant,  to  assess  their  probative 
value,  and  to  draw  conclusions  from  them  as 
appropriate”. 

As  the  Court  is  expected  regularly  to  consider 
environmental  cases  in  the  future,  it  will  increasingly 
have  to  consider  complex  scientific  evidence,  and  in 
some  cases  it  may  find  it  difficult  to  come  to  a 
conclusion  on  such  material  without  the  assistance  of 
6 

10-60667 


expert  testimony.  In  that  regard,  I  might  recall  a 
provision  in  the  Resolution  concerning  the  Internal 
Judicial  Practice  of  the  Court  (1976),  which  in  its 
article 1 states: 
the 
the  assistance, 
is  held  at  which 
“After the termination of the written proceedings 
and before the beginning of the oral proceedings, 
a  deliberation 
judges 
exchange views concerning the case, and bring to 
the  notice  of  the  Court  any  point  in  regard  to 
which  they  consider  it  may  be  necessary  to  call 
for  explanations  during  the  course  of  the  oral 
proceedings.” 

Such deliberation could be more fruitful in highly 
technical cases if it could afford an opportunity for the 
Court  to  discuss  the  technical  ideas  of  the  issue 
involved,  with 
if  appropriate,  of 
objective  experts,  so  that  the  Court  could  develop  the 
most accurate account of what further material it would 
like  the  parties  to  produce  and  whether  it  would  be 
useful for the Court to hear experts at the oral hearings. 

As far as the procedural violations are concerned, 
the  Court  noted  that  Uruguay  had  not  informed  the 
Administrative  Commission  of  the  River  Uruguay  of 
the  projects  as  prescribed 
the  Statute.  The 
Administrative Commission of the River Uruguay is a 
body  established  under  the  Statute  for  the  purpose  of 
monitoring the river, including assessing the impact of 
proposed  projects  on  the  river.  It  is  known  by  the 
Spanish  acronym  “CARU”.  The  Court  concluded  that 
by  not  informing  CARU  of  the  planned  works  before 
the  issuing  of  the  initial  environmental  authorizations 
for each of the mills and for the port terminal adjacent 
to  the  Orion  mill  and  by  failing  to  notify  the  plans  to 
Argentina  through  CARU,  Uruguay  had  violated  the 
1975 Statute. 

With  respect  to  the  substantive  violations,  the 
Court  found,  based  on  a  detailed  examination  of  the 
parties’ arguments, that there was 

“no  conclusive  evidence  in  the  record  to  show 
that  Uruguay  has  not  acted  with  the  requisite 
degree  of  due  diligence  or  that  the  discharges  of 
effluent  from  the  Orion  (Botnia)  mill  have  had 
deleterious  effects  or  caused  harm  to  living 
resources  or  to  the  quality  of  the  water  or  the 
ecological balance of the river since it started its 
operations in November 2007”. 
in 
A/65/PV.38
Italy  has  violated 

Consequently,  the  Court  concluded  that  Uruguay 
had  not  breached  substantive  obligations  under  the 
Statute. In addition to that finding, however, the Court 
emphasized  that  under  the  1975  Statute,  the  parties 
have  a  legal  obligation  to  continue  their  cooperation 
through CARU and to enable it to devise the necessary 
means to promote the equitable utilization of the river, 
while protecting its environment. 

On 6 July 2010, the Court handed down its order 
on  the  admissibility  of  a  counterclaim  submitted  by 
Italy  in  the  case  concerning  Jurisdictional  Immunities 
of  the  State  (Germany  v.  Italy).  This  case,  which  was 
filed  by  Germany  in  December  2008,  concerns  a 
dispute  over  whether 
the 
jurisdictional  immunity  of  Germany.  The  applicant 
argued  that  the  respondent,  by  allowing  civil  claims 
against  Germany  in  Italian  courts  on  the  alleged 
ground of violations of international humanitarian law 
by  the  German  Reich  during  the  Second  World  War, 
committed  an  internationally  wrongful  act  against  the 
applicant. 

In  its  counter-memorial  filed  on  23  December 
2009, Italy presented a counterclaim with respect to the 
question  of  the  reparation  owed  to  Italian  victims  of 
grave  violations  of  international  humanitarian  law 
committed by forces of the German Reich. In its order 
of  6  July  2010  on 
that 
counterclaim, the Court concluded that the dispute that 
Italy  intended  to  bring  before  the  Court  by  way  of  its 
counterclaim  related  to  facts  and  situations  existing 
prior to the entry into force, as between the parties, of 
the  European  Convention  for  the  Peaceful  Settlement 
of  Disputes  of  29 April  1957,  which  formed  the  basis 
of  the  Court’s  jurisdiction.  For  that  reason,  the  Court 
gave  a  decision  stating  that  the  counterclaim  did  not 
come  within 
temporis  as 
required  by  article  80,  paragraph  1,  of  the  Rules  of 
Court, and was thus inadmissible. 

On 22 July 2010, the Court rendered its advisory 
opinion  on  the  Accordance  with  international  law  of 
the unilateral declaration of independence in respect of 
Kosovo. As  I  mentioned  earlier,  this  advisory  opinion 
was  given  in  response  to  the  request  made  by  the 
General Assembly  in  its  resolution  63/3  of  8  October 
2008,  that  the  Court  provide  an  opinion  on  the 
following question: 
the  admissibility  of 
jurisdiction  ratione 
its 
10-60667 

7 

A/65/PV.38 


of 
filed 
independence 
the  authors  of 
“Is the unilateral declaration of independence by 
the  Provisional  Institutions  of  Self-Government 
of Kosovo in accordance with international law?” 

A considerable number of States from all regions 
of  the  world  took  part  in  the  case.  In  all,  36  Member 
States of the United Nations filed written statements on 
the  question,  and 
the  unilateral 
declaration 
a  written 
contribution.  Fourteen  States  offered  their  written 
comments  on  the  written  statements  by  States  and  the 
written contribution by the authors of the declaration of 
independence.  The  authors  of 
the  declaration  of 
independence  also  submitted  a  written  contribution 
regarding  the  written  statements  by  States.  In  the 
public hearings stage, 28 States and the authors of the 
unilateral  declaration  of  independence  participated  in 
the proceedings. The procedure was thus truly a global 
one  and  represented  an  important  form  of  interaction 
between the General Assembly and the Court. 

In  its  advisory  opinion  delivered  on  22  July  this 
year,  the  Court  concluded  that  the  declaration  of 
independence of Kosovo, adopted on 17 February 2008 
did not violate international law. 
the  Court  first 

addressed 
it  possessed 
jurisdiction  to  give  the  advisory  opinion  requested  by 
the General Assembly. The position the Court reached 
on  that  preliminary  question  was  that  the  question 
asked  was  referred  to  the  Court  by  the  General 
Assembly,  which is authorized to  request the Court to 
give  an  advisory  opinion  on  any  legal  question  under 
Article  96,  paragraph  1,  of  the  Charter,  and  that 
because  that  question  was  a  legal  question  within  the 
meaning of Article 96 of the Charter and Article 65 of 
its  Statute,  it  had  jurisdiction  to  give  an  advisory 
opinion in response to the request. 

The Court then dealt with the question, raised by 
a  number  of  participants  on  various  grounds,  as  to 
whether  the  Court  should  nonetheless  decline,  as  a 
matter of discretion, to exercise its jurisdiction to give 
an  advisory  opinion.  After  detailed  examination  of 
various aspects of the issues involved in this question, 
the  Court  concluded  that  in  light  of  its  established 
jurisprudence, there were “no compelling reasons for it 
to  decline  to  exercise  its  jurisdiction”  (see  A/64/881, 
para. 48). 
In  addressing  the  question  referred  to  it  by  the 

General  Assembly,  the  Court  carefully  examined  the 
the  question  of  whether 
its  conclusion, 
In  reaching 
regard 
to 
the 
to 
that 
reference 
international 
law  prohibited 
to  answer  amounted 
precise scope and meaning of the question put to it. In 
particular,  with 
the 
Provisional Institutions of Self-Government of Kosovo 
in  the  request  for  an  advisory  opinion  formulated  by 
the General Assembly, the Court stated that it was part 
of its judicial function to decide, proprio motu, whether 
the declaration of independence had been promulgated 
by  a  body  of  that  designation  or  by  any  other  entity. 
The Court also concluded that the question that it had 
to  a  strictly 
been  asked 
circumscribed  question  of  whether  a 
rule  of 
a  declaration  of 
international 
independence,  and  not 
the  question  of  whether 
international law conferred a positive entitlement upon 
Kosovo to declare independence. 
It was on the basis of that careful circumscription 

of  the  issues  presented  to  the  Court  that  the  Court 
assessed  whether  the  declaration  of  independence  was 
in  accordance  with  general  international  law.  It  noted 
that  State  practice  during  the  eighteenth,  nineteenth 
and  early  twentieth  centuries  points  clearly  to  the 
conclusion 
law  contained  no 
prohibition of declarations of independence. 

The Court declared that the scope of the principle 
of  territorial  integrity  is  confined  to  the  sphere  of 
relations  between  States.  It  further  analysed  three 
Security  Council  resolutions  that  were  cited  by  some 
participants  as  evidence  for  the  proposition  that  the 
declaration  of 
independence  was  prohibited  by 
international  law,  and  concluded  that  no  general 
prohibition  of  declarations  of  independence  could  be 
deduced  from 
the  Security  Council 
resolutions  in  question  were  addressed  to  specific 
situations where declarations of independence had been 
made  in  the  context  of  an  unlawful  use  of  force  or  a 
violation of jus cogens norm. 

The Court thus concluded  that the declaration of 
independence  as  such  was  not  prohibited  by  general 
international law. 
The  Court  then  analysed  whether  the  declaration 

of 
in 
independence  of  Kosovo 
accordance  with  Security  Council  resolution  1244 
(1999)  of  10  June  1999.  It  determined  that  the  object 
and purpose of resolution 1244 (1999) was to form “a 
temporary, 
regime  which … 
superseded  the  Serbian  legal  order  …  on  an  interim 
basis” (ibid., para. 100). 
in  question  was 
them,  since 
exceptional 
legal 
8 

10-60667 
form  of 
the 
framework  of 
the 
Since 
As  such, 
Analysing 
the  content  and 
the  resolution  constituted  a 



legal 
framework in relation to the institutions established by 
the  Constitutional  Framework  under  resolution  1244 
(1999).  The  question  to  be  examined,  therefore,  was 
whether the authors of the declaration of independence 
could  act  outside  that  Framework.  The  Court,  in  this 
context,  carefully  analysed  whether  the  authors  of  the 
declaration  of  independence  were  the  Provisional 
Institutions  of  Self-Government  of  Kosovo,  as 
mentioned  in  the  request  from  the  General Assembly, 
or otherwise. 

the 
declaration,  as  well  as  the  context  in  which  it  was 
declared,  the  Court  came  to  the  conclusion  that  the 
authors of the declaration of independence were not — 
were  not  —  the  Provisional  Institutions  of  Self-
Government but, rather, “persons who acted together in 
their  capacity  as  representatives  of  the  people  of 
Kosovo  outside 
interim 
administration” (ibid., para. 109). 

On  that  basis,  the  Court  came  to  the  conclusion 
that the declaration of independence of Kosovo did not 
violate  resolution  1244  (1999)  on  the  following  two 
grounds.  First,  the  resolution  and  the  declaration  of 
independence  operate  on  a  different 
level,  since 
resolution  1244  (1999)  remains  silent  as  to  the  final 
status  of  Kosovo,  whereas 
the  declaration  of 
independence  was  an  attempt  to  determine  that  final 
status.  Secondly,  resolution  1244  (1999)  imposes  only 
very  limited  obligations  on  non-State  actors,  but  none 
of  those  obligations  contains  a  general  prohibition  on 
Kosovo to declare independence. 

the  declaration  of 
independence  were  not  the  Provisional  Institutions  of 
Self-Government  of  Kosovo, 
the 
declaration  of  independence  were  not  bound  by  the 
Constitutional Framework established under resolution 
1244 (1999) and thus their declaration of independence 
had  not  violated  that  Framework.  Consequently,  the 
Court concluded that the adoption of the declaration of 
independence  did  not  violate  any  applicable  rule  of 
international law. 

just 
In  addition 
summarized,  the  Court  also  held,  during  the  period 
covered  by  this  annual  report,  oral  proceedings  and 
deliberations  in  the  case  concerning  Ahmadou  Sadio 
Diallo (Republic of Guinea v. Democratic Republic of 
the  Congo).  That  case  concerns  claims  for  diplomatic 
the  authors  of 
the  authors  of 
to 
the  cases 
that  I  have 
A/65/PV.38
to 
protection made by Guinea on behalf of Mr. Ahmadou 
Sadio Diallo, a Guinean businessman who alleges that 
he was unlawfully arrested, detained and expelled from 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  where  he  had 
been living and conducting business for over 30 years, 
since 1962. 

The  Court  had  already  disposed  of  the  issue  of 
preliminary  objections  raised  by  the  respondent  in  its 
2009  judgment.  The  public  hearings  it  held  in  April 
this  year  thus  related  to  the  merits  of  the  case.  The 
Court is now deliberating on its judgment on the merits 
of this case, and the judgment will be rendered in due 
course. 

Another  case  that  the  Court  had  to  deal  with 
during  the  period  covered  by  the  report  is  the  case 
between  Honduras  and  Brazil.  The  Assembly  may 
recall that, in my address last year (see A/64/PV.30), I 
mentioned  that  the  Court  had  received  just  one  day 
earlier  an  application  instituting  proceedings  by  the 
Republic of  Honduras against the Federative Republic 
of  Brazil  relating 
legal  questions  concerning 
diplomatic  relations  and  associated  with  the  principle 
of  non-intervention  in  matters  which  are  essentially 
within the domestic jurisdiction of any State. 

This case was unique in that the Court was faced 
with  conflicting  contacts  coming  from  competing 
governmental  authorities,  both  purporting  to  be  acting 
on  behalf  of  Honduras  in  a  situation  of  political 
uncertainty.  Immediately  after 
the  application  of 
28 October  2009  was  made  in  the  name  of  the 
Government  of  Honduras  as 
its 
ambassadors  in  the  Netherlands  and  France,  allegedly 
acting  as  agents  and  co-agents,  another  letter  of  the 
same  date,  in  the  name  of  the  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs  of  the  Republic  of  Honduras,  stated  that  the 
agents and co-agents of the Republic of Honduras who 
had  filed  the  first  application  of  28  October  had  been 
relieved of their duties. 

In  spite  of  that  notice,  however,  a  subsequent 
letter  of  2  November  —  signed  by  one  of  the  agents 
who  had  reportedly  been  relieved  of  his  duties 
according  to  the  letter  from  the  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs — informed the Court that “the Government of 
the Republic of Honduras … [had] appointed … to act 
as  its  Agent”  the  other  of  the  agents  who  had  been 
relieved  of  their  duties  in  that  previous  letter.  Under 
those unclear circumstances, the Court decided that no 
represented  by 
10-60667 

9 

that 
A/65/PV.38 

further  action  would  be  taken  in  the  case  until  the 
situation in Honduras was clarified. 

The  matter  was  finally  settled  when  the  Court 
received  a  letter  dated  30  April  2010,  in  which  the 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the  Republic  of 
Honduras  informed  the  Court  that  the  Honduran 
Government  was  “not  going  on  with  the  proceedings 
initiated  by  the Application  filed  on  28  October  2009 
against  the  Federative  Republic  of  Brazil”  and  that 
“insofar  as  necessary, 
the  Honduran  Government 
accordingly [was] withdraw[ing] this Application from 
the Registry”. 

In the light of that communication, which put an 
end to the complex situation, the Court, in its order of 
12  May  2010,  while  noting 
the  Brazilian 
Government had not in the meantime taken any steps in 
the proceedings in the case, took an official decision to 
record the discontinuance by the Republic of Honduras 
of  the  proceedings  it  had  instituted  and  ordered  the 
removal of the case from the General List. 

In addition to those cases that the Court has dealt 
with,  three  new  contentious  cases  were  filed  in  the 
relevant  period,  and  the  Court  also  received  one  new 
request for an advisory opinion. 
the  Kingdom  of 

Belgium 
the  Swiss 
Confederation  in  the  case  concerning  Jurisdiction and 
Enforcement  of  Judgments  in  Civil  and  Commercial 
Matters,  which  relates  primarily  to  the  interpretation 
and  application  of 
the  Lugano  Convention  of 
16 September 1988 on jurisdiction and the enforcement 
of  judgments  in  civil  and  commercial  matters.  In 
particular,  the  case  involves  a  dispute  between  the 
main  shareholders  in  Sabena,  the  former  Belgian 
airline.  Belgium  argues  that  Switzerland  is  breaching 
the  Lugano  Convention  and  other 
international 
obligations  by  virtue  of  the  decision  of  its  courts  to 
refuse to recognize a decision in a Belgian court on the 
liability  of  the  Swiss  shareholders  to  the  Belgian 
shareholders,  including  the  Belgian  State  and  three 
companies owned by the Belgian State. The parties are 
now in the process of preparing their written pleadings. 

Secondly,  in  April  2010,  the  Court  received  a 
request  for  an  advisory  opinion  from  the  International 
Fund 
(IFAD),  a 
specialized agency of the United Nations, concerning a 
judgment  rendered  by  the  Administrative  Tribunal  of 
the  International  Labour  Organization  (ILO)  requiring 
for  Agricultural  Development 
initiated  proceedings  against 
in  December  2009, 
First, 
Thirdly,  at  the  end  of  May  2010,  Australia 
IFAD  to  pay  a  staff  member  two  years’  salary  plus 
moral  damages  and  costs  for  the  abolishment  of  the 
post of that staff member. 

That request for an advisory opinion falls within 
the framework of a special procedure under which the 
Court is given the power of engaging in the review of 
judgments  of  administrative  tribunals  of  the  United 
Nations family in the form of an advisory opinion — a 
procedure that has given rise to four advisory opinions 
since 1946. 
The  Court  has  set  29  October  2010  as  the  time 

limit for the submission of written statements by IFAD 
and  its  member  States  entitled  to  appear  before  the 
Court,  the  States  parties  to  related  United  Nations 
conventions  entitled  to  appear  before  the  Court,  and 
those  specialized  agencies  of  the  United  Nations  that 
have made a declaration recognizing the jurisdiction of 
the ILO Administrative Tribunal. 

initiated proceedings against Japan concerning 

“Japan’s  continued  pursuit  of  a 
large-scale 
program of whaling under the Second Phase of its 
Japanese Whale Research Program under Special 
Permit in the Antarctic (‘JARPA II’), in breach of 
obligations 
the 
International  Convention  for  the  Regulation  of 
Whaling 
its  other 
international  obligations  for  the  preservation  of 
marine mammals and the marine environment”. 

Australia  alleges  in  its  application  that  whales 
caught  in  the  JARPA  II  programme  are  ultimately 
being placed  on commercial sale  and that the scale of 
whaling  under  the  programme  is  in  fact  bigger  than 
existed before the moratorium on commercial whaling 
under  the  International  Convention  for  the  Regulation 
of  Whaling, 
international 
obligations  under  the  international  conventions  that  it 
cites  in  its  application.  The  parties  are  now  preparing 
their written pleadings. 

Finally, on 20 July 2010, Burkina Faso and Niger 
jointly  submitted  to  the  Court  a  territorial  dispute 
relating  to  the  boundary  between  them,  pursuant  to  a 
special  agreement  signed  in  Niamey  on  24  February 
2009, which entered into force on 20 November 2009. 
In  the  special  agreement,  the  Court  is  requested  to 
determine the course of the boundary between the two 
countries  from  Tong-Tong  to  the  beginning  of  the 
(‘ICRW’),  as  well  as 
in  violation  of  certain 
Japan  under 
assumed  by 
10 

10-60667 
reflects 
the  broad  substantive  scope 


Botou bend. The parties have also requested the Court 
to take cognizance of the parties’  agreement to follow 
the  recommendations  of  a  joint  technical  commission 
with  regard  to  two  other  sectors  of  their  common 
border. 

As the Assembly can see, all these different cases 
raise  a  great  variety  of  divergent  issues  of  public 
international law. I can say that the work of the Court 
truly 
that 
international law now covers. 
As  I  stated  at  the  beginning  of  this  presentation, 

the  international  community  of  States  continues  to 
place its trust in the Court to handle a wide variety of 
legal disputes coming from all geographical regions of 
the  world.  The  Court’s  docket  of  pending  cases  has 
been consistently increasing in number in recent years, 
now  standing  at  16  cases  involving  approximately 
30 different States. 
Moreover,  the  coverage  of  the  cases  that  the 

Court is entrusted to deal with is also broader in scope 
than ever, with each case presenting distinct legal and 
factual  elements.  The  increased  recourse  by  States  to 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  for  the  judicial 
settlement  of  their  disputes  testifies  to  the  growing 
consciousness  among  political  leaders  of  those  States 
of the importance of the rule of law in the international 
community. 

the 
Indeed, 
importance  of  the  rule  of  law  in  the  contemporary 
international community is growing rapidly, against the 
backdrop of the deepening process of  globalization. It 
is  no  exaggeration  to  say  that  the  rule  of  law  now 
permeates  every  aspect  of  the  activities  of  the  United 
Nations, from the maintenance of peace and security to 
the  protection  of  human  rights,  and  from  the  fight 
against  poverty 
the  global 
environment, including the case of climate change. 

While every part of the Organization has a role to 
play in the promotion of the rule of law, the Court, as 
the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations,  is 
expected to play a central role in this area. By working 
to  strengthen  the  rule  of  law,  the  Organization  can 
strengthen  its  moral  fibre  which  is  so  essential  to 
uniting  an  increasingly  interconnected  world.  In  this 
situation,  the  Court  greatly  appreciates  the  trust  that 
Member States have continued to place in its work. 
it  must  be  emphasized 
the  protection  of 
that 
to 
A/65/PV.38
to 
less 
the  Court,  which,  with 
than  1,600  applications 

I  wish  in  particular  to  express  my  deep  and 
sincere  gratitude  to  the  General  Assembly  and  its 
member States in this context for the recent decision to 
provide the Court with additional P-2 legal officers so 
that now each judge can benefit from the assistance of 
a dedicated law clerk. I am particularly happy to report 
that  the  new  law  clerks  have  been  selected  through  a 
most  rigorous  recruitment  process  in  which  the  Court 
received  no 
for 
6 vacancies, and they have just taken up their functions 
at the beginning of September 2010. 
Those additional staff members provide essential 

assistance 
its  rapidly 
increasing workload, badly needs support to be able to 
continue  to  produce  the  quality  work  that  is  expected 
of  it.  That  added  research  support  not  only  helps  the 
Court  as  it  deals  with  its  increased  caseload,  but  also 
assists  it  enormously  in  strengthening  the  high  degree 
of  collegiality  and  confidentiality  between  Chambers 
within the Court, as a collegial body of judges who are 
dedicated  to  the  cause  of  promoting  justice  in  the 
contemporary world. On behalf of the entire Court, let 
me express our deep appreciation for that assistance. 

Looking  ahead,  I  pledge  that  the  Court  will 
continue to do its utmost to achieve its mandate, as set 
out  under  the  Charter  and  the  Statute,  in  assisting  the 
Member  States  in  the  pacific  settlement  of  their 
disputes.  It  is  my  hope  that  Member  States  will 
continue to place their trust in the Court, not only with 
the  submission  of  new  disputes,  but  also  through 
acceptance  of  the  Court’s  jurisdiction,  be  it  through  a 
declaration  under  Article  36,  paragraph  2,  of  the 
Statute,  or 
the  many 
multilateral treaties which now contain compromissory 
clauses  that  refer  disputes  as  to  the  interpretation  or 
application of those treaties to the Court. 

Let  me  close  my  brief  presentation  of  recent 
activities  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  by 
thanking  the Assembly  for  this  opportunity  to  address 
it  today.  I  wish  the Assembly  a  productive  sixty-fifth 
session. 

For  our  part,  the  Court  will  continue  to  dedicate 
its fullest efforts to the promotion of the rule of law in 
the  international  community  at  the  international  level 
and the peaceful settlement of disputes among Member 
States of the United Nations. 

the President of the International Court of Justice. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I thank 
the  signature  of 
through 
10-60667 

11 

is  fundamental  for 
A/65/PV.38 

Mr.  Rönquist  (Sweden):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak  on  behalf  of  the  five  Nordic  countries:  Finland, 
Iceland,  Norway,  Denmark  and  my  own  country, 
Sweden. 

Let  me  first  thank  President  Owada  for  his 
presentation of the report of the International Court of 
Justice  (A/65/4).  The  Nordic  countries  attach  great 
importance to the Court as the principal judicial organ 
of  the  United  Nations.  The  peaceful  resolution  of 
disputes 
the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.  The  Court  has 
fulfilled  that  task  during  the  past  65  years  and  has 
acquired  a  solid  reputation  as  an  impartial  institution 
with the highest legal standards, in accordance with its 
mandate under the Charter of the United Nations. 

The submission of a dispute to the Court must not 
be  regarded  as  a  hostile  act,  but  rather  as  an  act  that 
reflects the obligation of States to settle their disputes 
peacefully.  In that  context, the  Nordic  countries recall 
the  recommendation  of  the  2005  World  Summit  that 
States  not  yet  having  done  so  consider  accepting  the 
jurisdiction of the Court, in accordance with its Statute. 
We welcome the attention given to that issue during the 
meeting  of  legal  advisers  this  week,  including  in 
relation to the possibility of reconsidering reservations 
to Article 36 of the Court’s Statute. 

the 
cornerstone  of  international  legal  order.  Its  mere 
existence,  as  well  as  its  practice,  has  strengthened  the 
rule  of  law  and  has  contributed  to  the  prevention  and 
resolution  of  international  disputes.  In  support  of  the 
obligation  to  settle  disputes  peacefully,  the  increasing 
caseload  before  the  Court  is  encouraging.  The  many 
different  geographical  regions  from  which  those  cases 
appear are also a testament to the growing recognition 
of the Court’s vital role in that regard. 

The  report  of  the  Court  clearly  illustrates  the 
confidence  States  put  in  the  Court,  as  shown  by  the 
number  and  scope  of  cases  entrusted  to  it  and  the 
Court’s  growing  specialization  in  complex  aspects  of 
public  international  law.  The  Court’s  relevance  in 
today’s legal  challenges  has been shown, inter  alia, in 
the advisory opinion rendered on the Accordance with 
international  law  of  the  unilateral  declaration  of 
independence in respect of Kosovo. 

The development of the Court’s jurisprudence has 
proven  to  be  most  useful  to  States,  not  only  for  those 
who  participate  as  parties  to  the  proceedings,  but  for 
International  Court  of  Justice 
The 
is 
to 
reaffirm 
to  facilitate 
all  States  for  which  guidance  is  needed  on  the 
interpretation  of  international  law.  The  progressive 
development of international law is welcomed, and the 
Court’s  contribution 
the  ongoing  development 
towards  an  international  legal  order  based  on  the  rule 
of law is significant. 

Having said that, we must ensure that the Court is 
not  overburdened  for  lack  of  sufficient  resources.  In 
order 
judicial  settlement  of  disputes 
through  the  Court,  some  of  the  Nordic  States  have 
contributed  to  the  Secretary-General’s  Trust  Fund  to 
Assist States in the Settlement of Disputes through the 
International Court of Justice. 

The Nordic countries welcome all efforts made to 
rationalize  the  Court’s  working  methods,  for  example 
by introducing the system of law clerks who are at the 
disposal  of  the  members  of  the  Court.  We  need  to 
ensure  that  the  Court  has  adequate  resources  for  its 
important work. 

The  Nordic  countries  would  also  like  to  express 
their  appreciation  for  the  Court’s  informative  website, 
which  gives  instant  access  to  past  and  pending  cases, 
judgments and opinions, thus contributing to the wider 
study,  recognition  and  dissemination  of  the  Court’s 
work. 

support for the International Court of Justice. 
Mr.  McLay  (New  Zealand):  First  of  all,  New 

Zealand  would  like  to  associate  itself  with  the  earlier 
comments  on  the  sad  death  of The  Honourable  David 
John Howard Thompson and extends its condolences to 
his  family  and 
the  Government  and  people  of 
Barbados. 
On  behalf  of  Canada,  Australia  and  my  own 

country,  New  Zealand,  I  thank  the  President  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  Judge  Owada,  for  his 
helpful  report  on  the  work  of  the  Court  over  the  past 
year. I also thank him and Vice-President Judge Tomka 
for their leadership of the Court over that period. 

Canada,  Australia  and  New  Zealand  (CANZ) 
congratulate Judges Xue and Donoghue on their recent 
election  to  the  Court.  We  acknowledge  the  judicial 
service  of 
Judges  Shi  and 
Buergenthal,  both  of  whom  resigned  during  the  last 
year,  and  thank  them  for  their  valuable  work  during 
their terms of office. 
The  Nordic  countries 
their  predecessors, 
their  strong 
12 

10-60667 
international 
The  Court’s  second 



CANZ  takes  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  its 
strong  support  for  the  work  of  the  Court  as  the 
principal judicial organ of  the United Nations. One of 
the  primary  goals  of  the  United  Nations,  as  stated  in 
the  Preamble  to  the  United  Nations  Charter,  is  to 
establish conditions under which justice and respect for 
the obligations of international law can be maintained. 

The  International  Court  of  Justice,  as  the  only 
international  court  with  general 
law 
jurisdiction,  is  uniquely  placed  to  further  that  goal.  It 
plays  an  essential  role  in  the  peaceful  resolution  of 
disputes between States. As the Court’s record reports, 
disputes  have  been  submitted  to  it  by  a  variety  of 
States from many regions. This diversity, together with 
the  wide-ranging,  significant  and  complex  subject 
matter under deliberation and pending before the Court 
over  the  past  year,  bears  testament  to  the  importance 
that  Member  States  attach  to  the  role  of  the  Court  in 
resolving international disputes. 

function,  of  providing 
advisory  opinions  on  legal  questions  referred  to  it  by 
organs of the United Nations and specialized agencies, 
continues to fulfil the important role of  clarifying key 
international law issues. 

CANZ  encourages  Member  States  who  have  not 
yet  done  so  to  declare  their  acceptance  of  the  Court’s 
compulsory  jurisdiction.  Its  report  records  that  fewer 
than  half  of  the  States  parties  to  the  Statute  of  the 
Court  have  declared 
that 
jurisdiction.  As  more  States  accept 
the  Court’s 
jurisdiction,  it  will  have  more  time  to  consider  the 
substance  of  cases,  rather  than  objections  to  its 
jurisdiction. 

CANZ  recognizes  that,  every  year,  the  Court 
handles  a  significant  and  complex  range  of  cases  and 
advisory opinions, and that it has successfully cleared a 
case  backlog.  We  acknowledge  and  appreciate  the 
Court’s  efforts  to  enhance  its  efficiency,  which  will 
enable  it  to  sustain  an  increasing  workload  and  to 
manage,  simultaneously,  a  demanding  schedule  of 
cases.  CANZ  is  pleased  that  additional  staff  positions 
have  been  made  available  to  the  Court  and  that  the 
upgrade  of  technical  equipment  at  the  Peace  Palace 
will  be  realized.  We  hope  that  this  will  improve  the 
Court’s  working  environment  and  ease  the  processing 
of its heavy caseload. 
CANZ values the contribution of the International 

Court  of  Justice  in  promoting  the  rule  of  law  and  the 
their  acceptance  of 
A/65/PV.38
peaceful  resolution  of  international  disputes,  thus 
fulfilling  the  critical  Charter  objective  of  establishing 
conditions  under  which  justice  and  respect  for  the 
obligations of international law can be maintained. 
Mr. Christian (Ghana): The Ghanaian delegation 

feels  honoured  to  speak  under  agenda  item  70,  in 
relation  to  the  report  (A/65/4)  of  the  International 
Court of Justice, which the President of the Court, His 
Excellency  Judge  Hisashi  Owada,  presented 
this 
morning  in  an  admirably  comprehensive  and  lucid 
manner. We applaud the work done by the International 
Court  of  Justice  during  the  reporting  period  under  his 
able presidency. 

Ghana  welcomes  the  election  of  Judge  Xue  and 
Judge Donoghue and wish them success on the Court. 
We  believe  that  these  distinguished  Judges  will  also 
make a significant impact on the work of the Court and 
build  on  the  remarkable  contribution  made  by  Judge 
Shi Jiuyong, former President of the Court, and Judge 
Thomas Buergenthal, respectively, whom they replace. 

The  report  of  the  Court  before  the  Assembly 
today reminds us that the International Court of Justice 
is  not  only  an  organ  of  the  United  Nations  —  its 
principal judicial organ for that matter — but also the 
only  international  court  of  a  universal  character  with 
general  jurisdiction.  The  regional  and  cross-regional 
diversity  of  the  great  number  of  cases,  contentious  or 
otherwise,  that  the  Court  has dealt  with  in  the  past  or 
which are still pending reflects the Court’s universality 
and  demonstrates 
the 
international  community  speaks  one  language:  the 
language of international law. The breadth and depth of 
the  subject  matter  of  which  the  Court  is  seized  — 
ranging  from  the  environment,  territorial  disputes, 
jurisdictional 
racial 
discrimination  and  human  rights  to  the  interpretation 
and application of treaties — illustrate the importance 
of  the  Court  in  promoting  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes  and  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and security and the rule of law. 
thorough 

law 
knowledge  of 
requires 
and 
obviously certain disciplines of international law, such 
as  the  jurisdictional  immunities  of  States  and  the 
immunities of high-ranking State officials from foreign 
criminal  jurisdiction  need  further  clarification.  The 
languages,  having  a 
language  of 
education 
As  with  all 
the 
constant 
international 
learning, 
immunities  of 
that  before 
the  Court 
the  State, 
and 
10-60667 

13 

As  Chair  of 
A/65/PV.38 

relevant  jurisprudence  of  the  Court  will  no  doubt  be 
invaluable in achieving this goal. 

the  United  Nations  Advisory 
Committee  on  the  United  Nations  Programme  of 
Assistance  in  the  Teaching,  Study,  Dissemination  and 
Wider  Appreciation  of  International  Law,  Ghana 
attaches  great  importance  to  the  need  for  a  more 
holistic  approach  to  the  wider  dissemination  and 
progressive  development  of  international  law  and  its 
codification.  We  would  therefore  urge  that  greater 
resources be  given to the  Codification  Division of the 
Office  of  Legal  Affairs,  as  well  as  the  International 
Law Commission (ILC), to ensure that they contribute 
more  effectively  to  promoting  a  better  understanding 
and  appreciation  of  international  law.  This  would 
include providing resources for ILC special rapporteurs 
and  the  Audiovisual  Library  of  International  Law,  as 
well as increasing the funds in the Trust Fund to Assist 
States  in  the  Settlement  of  Disputes  through  the 
International  Court  of  Justice.  The  conditions  for 
accessing the Trust Fund should be less restrictive. 

We are encouraged by the initiatives taken by the 
Court  to  improve  its  working  methods  to  enhance  its 
efficiency  and  effectiveness  in  the  management  of  its 
caseload and to increase its legitimacy through its real 
and  perceived  impartiality  and  fairness.  Programmes 
such as the panel discussion on the topic of compulsory 
jurisdiction  held  during  this  week’s  International  Law 
Week  meeting  of  legal  advisers  of  Member  States  are 
also  steps  in  the  right  direction.  The  reports  of  the 
Court  also  help  to  demystify  the  procedures  and  rules 
of  the  Court.  Enhancing  access  to  the  Court  will  not 
only  depend  on  resources  but  also  on  building  the 
capacity of States through training and knowledge. 

In  closing,  I  wish  to  observe  that  the  debate  on 
the report of the International Court of Justice is taking 
place  at  a  time  when  the  United  Nations  has  given 
pride of place to the promotion of the rule of law at the 
national  and 
levels.  The  continued 
success  of  the  Court  will  serve  as  an  inspirational 
model to the regional courts that have been established, 
help  to  bridge  the  fragmentation  of  international  law 
and  serve  as  a  bulwark  for  the  rule  of  raw  at  the 
regional level. 

In  keeping  with  Ghana’s  motto  “Freedom  and 
Justice”,  the  Government  and  people  of  Ghana  will 
continue  to  contribute  in  any  way,  shape  or  form  to 
help  create  conditions  in  which  the  Court  will  be 
international 
the 
to 
seeking 
the  current  situation  of 
accorded  the  respect  and  resources  it  deserves  within 
the  United  Nations  and  among 
international 
community. We  shall  continue  to  support  the  Court  as 
an  anchor  for  the  peaceful  settlement  to  disputes  so 
that justice will surely reign to enable the peoples and 
States  of  the  world  to  live  and  be  at  peace  with  each 
another. 
Mr.  Sumi  (Japan):  I  would  like  to  express  my 

gratitude  to  President  Hisashi  Owada  for  his  in-depth 
report  summarizing 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice  (A/65/4).  As  a  State 
resolutely devoted to peace and firmly dedicated to the 
promotion  of  the  rule  of  law  and  respect  for  the 
principle  of  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  Japan 
appreciates the strenuous efforts and work of the Court 
presided over by Judge Owada in delivering decisions 
and opinions based on exhaustive deliberation. 
We are especially impressed by the wide regional 

range  of  Member  States 
resolve 
international  legal  disputes  by  referring  cases  to  the 
Court. This fact illustrates the universality of the Court 
and the great importance that Member States attach to 
it. I am especially glad to see that the Court’s docket of 
pending  cases  has  grown  consistently  in  recent  years 
and  now  stands  at  16  cases,  involving  approximately 
30 different States, as Judge Owada mentioned. 

The variety of the subject matter of recent cases, 
from the frontier dispute to the obligation to prosecute 
or  extradite  —  aut  dedere  aut  judicare  —  also 
demonstrates the significant role played by the Court in 
solving 
international  disputes  between  States  and 
providing 
important  questions  of 
international law. In this regard, we commend the work 
of  the  Court  on  the  advisory  opinion  regarding  the 
question  of  the  Accordance  with  international  law  of 
the unilateral declaration of independence in respect of 
Kosovo. 

international  community,  where  we 
In 
continue  to  witness  armed  conflicts  and  acts  of 
terrorism,  the  firm  establishment  of  law  and  order 
remains  indispensable.  In  this  regard,  the  role  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  as  the  principal  judicial 
organ  of  the  United  Nations  is  paramount  and  cannot 
be overstated. 

In concluding my remarks, I wish to reiterate the 
great importance the international community attaches 
to  the  lofty  cause  and  work  of  the  International  Court 
of Justice and to draw the Assembly’s attention to the 
its  opinion  on 
the 
14 

10-60667 
their 


importance  of  strengthening  the  functioning  of  the 
Court,  including  the  provision  of  additional  P-2  legal 
officers. Japan, for its part, will continue to contribute 
to  the  invaluable  work  and  the  efficient  and  effective 
operation of the Court. 
Mr.  Hernández  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

The delegation of Mexico  would like to commend the 
International  Court  of  Justice  for  the  difficult  work  it 
carried out this year. Moreover, Mexico welcomes the 
appointment of Xue Hanqin and Joan Donoghue as the 
new Judges of the Court, replacing Judges Shi Jiuyong 
and  Thomas  Buergenthal,  respectively,  to  whom  we 
express  our  sincere  gratitude  for 
important 
contributions to international justice and jurisprudence. 

My delegation believes it appropriate to highlight 
the  four  new  contentious  cases  and  the  recent  request 
by the International Fund for Agricultural Development 
for an advisory opinion. Likewise, we would highlight 
the ruling in the Pulp Mills on the River Uruguay case 
and  the  advisory  opinion  regarding  the  Accordance 
with  international  law  of  the  unilateral  declaration  of 
independence  in  respect  of  Kosovo,  issued  during  the 
period  under  review.  These  important  developments 
demonstrate 
international 
community  has 
the  principal 
international judicial body. 

My  country  also  welcomes  the  periodic  review 
carried  out  by  the  Court  over  the  past  few  years  with 
regard to its procedures, working methods and practice 
directions,  aimed  at  enhancing  the  effective  handling 
of  cases.  This  has  been  crucial  to  this  judicial  body 
being able to sustain its level of activity. 

Mexico  also  welcomes  the  General  Assembly’s 
willingness  to  increase  the  Court’s  number  of  law 
clerks  and  security  personnel  and  to  establish  a  new 
telecommunications  technician  post  in  the  General 
Service category. In this regard, Mexico calls upon the 
General Assembly  to  continue  to  provide  tools  to  the 
Court in order for it to achieve optimal performance as 
the principal judicial organ of the United Nations. 

The  report  under  review  (A/65/4)  today  clearly 
and  concisely  lays  out  the  disputes  before  the  Court, 
showing  beyond  a  doubt  its  universal  nature.  In  this 
regard,  my  delegation  wishes  to  stress  that  out  of  the 
17  cases  that  the  Court  considered  during  this  period, 
five had to do with States from Latin America and the 
Caribbean. Additionally, one of them was resolved this 
year.  This  demonstrates  our  region’s  commitment  to 
the  confidence 
the  Court  as 
that 
the 
in 
A/65/PV.38
impact 
constitutes 
assessment 
international  law  and  to  the  principle  of  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes. 

Mexico  would  like  to  highlight  the  substantial 
legal significance that the Court’s rulings have for the 
States  parties  to  a  dispute.  It  also  represents  the 
establishment  of  international  jurisprudence  that  is  of 
interest  for  the  entire  international  community.  The 
Court  has  an  essential  role  in  the  development  of 
international  law.  The  ruling  in  the  Pulp  Mills  on  the 
River Uruguay case is a clear example of this. 
In  the  oral  and  written  proceedings  concerning 

the  request  for  an  advisory  opinion  submitted  by  the 
Council  of  the  International  Seabed  Authority  to  the 
Seabed Disputes Chamber of the International Tribunal 
of the Law of the Sea on the subject of responsibilities 
and  obligations  of  States  sponsoring  persons  and 
entities  with  respect  to  activities  in  the  International 
Seabed  Area,  several  States  referred  to  the  Court’s 
opinion on the Pulp Mills on the River Uruguay  case. 
They  stated  that  the  condition  of  undertaking  an 
environmental 
a 
requirement  under  general  international  law  whenever 
the  risk  of  a  planned  industrial  activity  might  have 
significant adverse impacts in a cross-border context. 

Without  prejudice  to  the  decision  of  the  Seabed 
Disputes Chamber of the International Tribunal for the 
Law of the Sea regarding the advisory opinion, Mexico 
believes  that  this  procedure  will  demonstrate  how  the 
Court,  in  developing  good  principles  in  its  decisions 
and opinions, can enrich the work of other international 
legal  bodies,  thus  furthering  the  development  of 
international law as a whole. 

In Mexico’s view, this indicates that the existence 
of  multiple  international  courts  and  tribunals  does  not 
necessarily lead to a fragmentation of international law. 
Rather, it opens doors for inter-judicial dialogue. Based 
on mutual respect for the competences of each judicial 
to 
organ, 
strengthen 
in 
particular with a view to making it more efficient and 
dynamic 
the  proliferation  of  global 
challenges. 
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  reiterating  Mexico’s 

support  for  the  International  Court  of  Justice  as  the 
principal  judicial  body  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes and as a principal organ of the United Nations. 
that  dialogue  has  enormous  potential 
judiciary  as  a  whole, 
international 
facing 
in 
10-60667 

15 

the 
international 
turned 
law 
institutions  and 
A/65/PV.38 

Mr. Kim Hyungjun (Republic of Korea): At the 

outset,  on  behalf  of  my  delegation,  I  would  like  to 
express  our  gratitude  to  President  Hisashi  Owada  for 
his comprehensive report on the judicial developments 
and activities of the International Court of Justice. We 
also  express  our  appreciation  and  support  for  the 
Court’s  achievements  during  the  period  under  review. 
In  addition,  we  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
extend  our  congratulations  to  Judge  Xue  Hanqin  and 
Judge Joan Donoghue on their election as judges of the 
Court.  We  are  confident  that  the  two  judges  will  be 
able  to  draw  upon  their  extensive  experience  to  make 
positive contributions to the Court. 
Following  the  Cold  War  era,  in  the  1990s  both 

to 
public  and  scholarly  circles  naturally 
to 
international 
provide  solutions.  Driven  by  rapid  globalization  and 
drastic  change  in  the  international  order,  debates 
between States on a variety of issues — ranging  from 
territorial  disputes 
to  environmental  conflicts  — 
emerged  on 
international  political  arena,  as 
international  law appeared to be the inescapable wave 
of the future. 

In this context, what is, or can be, the role of the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  the  primary  judicial 
organ of the United Nations? To prevent the occurrence 
of  discrepancies  and 
incongruent  development  of 
international  law,  we  expect  that  the  Court  can  act  as 
the  anchor  for  the  harmonization  of  the  international 
judiciary.  Sixty-five  years  ago,  the  Court’s  role  as  the 
central  judicial  body  was  enshrined  in  the  United 
Nations Charter. We expect to see the Court continue to 
seize  that  mandate  in  providing  its  legal  wisdom  and 
experience to the international community. 

The  increasing  number  of  cases  brought  to  the 
Court  serve  clearly  to  illustrate  the  respect  and 
confidence that States have in the Court. Allow me to 
recapitulate current developments in a couple of cases 
that are of particular importance to our delegation. 

judgment 
concerning the Pulp Mills on the River Uruguay case. 
The  case 
includes  questions  of  environmental 
implications  in  the  utilization  of  the  part  of  the  river 
that constitutes the countries’ joint boundary, as well as 
the 
there  was  a  violation  of 
obligations  under  the  treaty  signed  between  the  States 
parties.  The  Court  separated 
its 
procedural obligations from its substantive obligations 
the  Court  delivered 
issue  of  whether 
the  breach 
Recently, 
its 
in 
the 
importance  of 
We  also  note 
under  the  relevant  articles  of  the  treaty  in  this 
judgment.  The  delivery  of  this  decision  illustrates  the 
Court’s in-depth judicial analysis in providing the most 
adequate decision for this case. 

We also take  note of the advisory opinion of the 
Court on the Accordance with International Law of the 
Unilateral  Declaration  of  Independence  in  Respect  of 
Kosovo. The opinion presents an important opportunity 
for Kosovo and Serbia to open a new phase of relations 
through  constructive  and  sincere  dialogue.  We  hope 
that  sustainable  solutions  can  be  reached  to  establish 
peace and stability in the Balkans in the near future. 

Among  the  various  contentious  cases  we  are 
interested  in,  the  Whaling  in  the  Antarctic  case  has 
attracted  our  attention.  We  expect  that  the  Court  will 
suggest  reasonable  standards,  based  on  its  judicial 
prudence,  to  interpret  international  conventions  and 
obligations  for  the  preservation  of  marine  mammals 
and the marine environment. 

the  case 
concerning  the  Jurisdictional  Immunities  of  the  State
because  of  its  unique  historical  background.  The  case 
foreshadows  the  possibility  of  the  Court  playing  an 
important  role  in  providing  judicial  guidance  in  the 
settlement  of  unfortunate  historical  grievances.  It  is 
essential  to  reconcile  and  settle  the  past  in  a  way  that 
individuals  can  also  be  consoled  and  compensated  in 
order  to  rebuild  amicable  and  friendly  future-oriented 
relations between States. 

My delegation noted and appreciated the Court’s 
efforts to enhance its efficiency. Recently, the General 
Assembly  contributed  to  sustaining  those  efforts  by 
providing  an  appropriation  for  the  replacement  of 
information technology equipment. That will cover the 
cost  of  installing  information  technology  resources, 
which  can  improve  work  efficiency,  but  additional 
funds  are  still  needed.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation 
would  like 
to  underscore  the  importance  of  the 
contributions of Member States, including their respect 
for the Court’s decisions and their cooperation with the 
Court’s efforts to promote the rule of law. 
In  concluding  my  statement,  I  expect  that  the 

and 
Court  will 
responsibilities based on its experience in creating and 
interpreting  international  law  for  65  years.  I  reaffirm 
that the delegation of the  Republic of  Korea will be a 
steadfast  supporter  and  contributor  to  the  invaluable 
work of the Court. 
continue 
extend 
role 
its 
to 
16 

10-60667 
important 
the  United  Nations, 


Ms.  Gendi  (Egypt):  Let  me  begin  by  expressing 

the  deep  condolences  of  Egypt  to  the  people  and 
Government  of  Barbados  on  the  enormous  loss  of  the 
late  Prime  Minister  of  Barbados,  The  Honourable 
David John Howard Thompson. 

I  would  like  to  also  take  this  opportunity  to 
express  the  appreciation  of  Egypt  to  Mr.  Hisashi 
Owada, President of the International Court of Justice, 
for his comprehensive presentation of the report of the 
Court  (A/65/4)  on  its  activities  over  the  past  year.  I 
should  also  like  to  reaffirm  Egypt’s  support  for  the 
Court’s key role in ensuring the implementation of the 
provisions  of  international  law,  adjudicating  disputes 
between  States  and  providing  advisory  opinions  to 
States and international organizations to guide them on 
how to best assume their roles and functions. 
Since  its  establishment  as  the  principal  judicial 

the  Court  has 
organ  of 
strengthened 
legal  principles  and  rules 
through  its  advisory  opinions  on  the  Legality  of  the 
the  Legal 
Threat  or  Use  of  Nuclear  Weapons, 
Consequences  of  the  Construction  of  a  Wall  in  the 
Occupied  Palestinian  Territory,  the  Accordance  with 
International  Law  of  the  Unilateral  Declaration  of 
Independence in Respect of Kosovo and other decisions 
on  territorial  and  maritime  border  disputes.  Those 
opinions  have  contributed  to  the  settlement  of  several 
disputes around the world and to preventing them from 
escalating into armed conflicts. 

The delegation of Egypt therefore emphasizes the 
need  to  encourage  States  and  United  Nations  organs 
and  specialized  agencies  to  request  advisory  opinions 
from  the  Court  on  important  legal  questions  arising 
within  the  scope  of  their  activities,  as  these  opinions 
encompass developments in and the codification of the 
rules  of  international  law.  Owing  to  their  high  moral 
and  legal  values,  they  contribute  to  consolidating  the 
principles  of  justice  and  equality  at  the  international 
level,  which  reflect  positively  on  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. Egypt considers that it 
is  important  to  provide  the  Court  with  an  opportunity 
to  consider  the  legality  of  encroachment  by  certain 
principal organs of the Organization on the competence 
of  other  principal  organs  that  are  more  representative 
and democratic in nature. 

In  the  same  vein,  it  is  necessary  to  monitor  and 
assess the implementation of the Court’s decisions and 
to  enhance  international  recognition  of  the  moral  and 
10-60667 

A/65/PV.38
in 
legal values of its advisory opinions. This can be done 
by  establishing  a  mechanism  for  that  purpose  within 
the  United  Nations  to  examine  the  extent  of  States’ 
implementation  in  good  faith,  as  required  under  the 
Charter of the United Nations, of the advisory opinions 
issued  by  the  Court  at  the  request  of  one  of  the 
principal  organs,  as  well  as  to  monitor  the  damage 
caused  by  failures 
implementation  and  adopt 
modalities  for  compensating  affected  States.  Such  a 
mechanism  would  be  similar  to  the  one  established  to 
assess  the  damages  caused  by  the  construction  of  the 
wall  and  determine  the  required  compensation,  which 
so far still faces major obstacles. 

Furthermore,  the  delegation  of  Egypt  expresses 
its  appreciation  for  the  pioneering  role  played  by  the 
Court in consolidating the principle of the rule of law. 
We  also  stress  the  need  to  draw  on  the  experience  of 
the Court in  consolidating established legal rules with 
respect  to  the  responsibility  of  States  to  protect  their 
citizens and respect international law, both with regard 
to  diplomatic  protection  or  consular  relations  and  the 
distinction  between  legitimate  armed  struggle  in  the 
framework  of  the  right  to  self-determination  and 
terrorism. 

Egypt also welcomes the steps taken by the Court 
to increase its effectiveness in dealing with the steady 
increase  in  cases  before  it.  We  support  its  request  for 
six  positions  for  law  clerks  from  the  regular  budget. 
Egypt  will  work  with  other  States  in  the  Fifth 
Committee  to  respond  to  that  request,  especially  as  it 
comes  at  a  time  of  increasing  international  efforts  to 
utilize  good  governance  at  the  international  level  as  a 
means to fulfil the commitments of the Court. 

In that regard, Egypt also welcomes the reference 
in  the  Court’s  report  to  the  ongoing  work  with  regard 
to the technological updating of the Peace Palace halls 
and  the  replacement  and  modernization  of  the  audio-
visual  equipment  in  its  historic  courtroom  and  nearby 
rooms in order to enable the Court to perform its tasks 
in conformity with its international standing. 

In conclusion, Egypt expresses its appreciation to 
all  the  judges  of  the  Court  and  to  the  Registrar  and 
staff for their efforts in the year covered by the report. 
We wish them success in performing the envisaged role 
of the Court in the future. 
Mr. Cabactulan (Philippines): Before I proceed, 

I  also  would  like  to  express  the  condolences  and 
sympathies  of  my  delegation  to  the  Government  and 
17 

A/65/PV.38 

people  of  Barbados  on  the  sad  demise  of  their  Prime 
Minister, The Honourable David Howard Thompson. 

I am pleased and honoured to address the General 
Assembly during its  consideration of the report of the 
International  Court  of  Justice  (A/65/4).  Likewise,  I 
take  this  opportunity  to  commend  Judge  Hisashi 
Owada, President of the International Court of Justice, 
for  his  dedicated  stewardship  of  the  world  Court  and 
for  the  comprehensive  and  detailed  report  he  has 
presented  to  us.  On  behalf  of  the  Philippines,  I  also 
take  this  opportunity  to  welcome  the  election  to  the 
Court  of  Judge  Xue  Hanqin  of  China  and  Judge  Joan 
Donoghue  of  the  United  States.  They  —  and  all  the 
Court’s judges — possess a breadth of experience and 
depth of expertise that is crucial in the exercise of the 
Court’s mandate. 

The Philippines reaffirms its support for the work 
of  the  Court  and  the  invaluable  role  it  plays  in 
promoting  an  international  legal  order  founded  on  the 
primacy of the rule of law and the peaceful settlement 
of  disputes.  As  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the 
United  Nations,  the  Court  is  the  primary  institution 
tasked  with  ensuring  respect  for  the  rule  of  law  in 
international relations. 

The Court’s importance cannot be overstated. The 
cases referred to the Court come from diverse regions, 
deal  with  extremely  varied  subject  matter  and  are 
growing in legal and factual complexity. Yet, the Court 
has remained steadfast in its efforts to further increase 
its efficiency. 
In  that  regard,  the  Philippines  commends  the 

Court for taking steps that have allowed it to sustain its 
level  of  activity. The  continuous  re-examination  of  its 
procedures and working methods, the regular updating 
of  its  practices  adopted  in  2001  for  use  by  States 
appearing  before  it,  and  the  setting  of  an  exacting 
schedule have all enabled the Court to clear its backlog 
of cases, and thus increase the confidence placed in it 
by  States  submitting  a  dispute  for  fair  and  timely 
resolution. 

My delegation has taken due note of the General 
Assembly’s  contributions  to  sustaining  the  Court’s 
efforts at streamlining and making its working methods 
more efficient by approving the establishment of much-
needed additional posts in the Court’s Registry in 2009. 
The Philippines reiterates its call for Member States to 
continue to provide the Court with the necessary means 
to ensure its proper and efficient functioning. 
that 
Our 
threats 
its  user 
for 
the 
rule  of 
law  and 
increasingly 
the  request 
interdependent 
the  Philippines  notes 

My delegation again reiterates its approval of the 
work  done  by  the  world  Court  aimed  at  making  the 
Court  and  its  decisions  more  widely  accessible  to  the 
public  through  traditional  media  and  information  and 
communications 
technology.  The  Court’s  website 
continues  to  undergo  dynamic  changes  in  both  its 
content  and 
interface.  The  Philippines 
welcomes  the  inclusion  on  the  Court’s  website  of  its 
entire  jurisprudence  and  that  of  its  predecessor,  the 
Permanent Court of International Justice. 

In  order  to  strengthen  the  foundations  for  global 
respect 
its  effective 
implementation,  transparency  and  accessibility  must, 
along  with  integrity  and  independence,  be  the  Court’s 
cornerstones.  Yet,  transparency  and  accessibility  must 
never  compromise  the  Court’s  security.  It  is  on  that 
point 
to 
strengthen  the  Court’s  security  team  to  enable  it  to 
confront  new 
technological 
in  respect  of 
information systems security. 

world 
underscores  the  need  for  the  rule  of  law.  The  cases 
brought  before  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
illustrate  the  variety  and  complexity  of  the  issues  we 
face.  New  and  emerging  subjects  of  specialization  in 
international  law  demand  thorough  consideration  in 
order  to  ensure  that  rights  are  not  encumbered  and 
obligations are carried out. 

In  recent  years,  we  have  witnessed  a  steady  rise 
in the resorting by States, entities and even individuals 
to  specialized  tribunals  and  forums,  in  attempts  to 
address  the  increasing  demands  of  interdependence. 
My  delegation  views  this  development  as  a  reflection 
of increased confidence in, and recourse to, the rule of 
law, which the International Court of Justice has helped 
to  propagate.  In  that  regard,  we  count  on  the  Court’s 
function  of  elucidating  norms  to  provide  a  basic 
framework  of  case  law  and  norms,  as  well  as  to 
harmonize  jurisprudence  in  general  international  law, 
in order to provide guidance for specialized tribunals. 

In conclusion, the Philippines views the increased 
workload  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  as  a 
positive sign  of the trust and confidence placed in the 
Court’s  legal  supremacy. Therefore,  in  the  exercise  of 
its mandate as the only international court of universal 
character  with  general  jurisdiction,  we  must  continue 
to  provide  the  support  crucial  for  maintaining  and 
18 

10-60667 
the 
territorial 


strengthening the rule of law, which underpins peaceful 
relations between States. 
Mr. Gutiérrez (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): I would 

like to thank the President of the International Court of 
Justice,  Judge  Hisashi  Owada,  for  being  here  with  us 
this  morning  and  for  his  interesting  briefing  on  the 
hard work carried out by the Court over the past year. 

States  should  resolve  their  disputes  by  peaceful 
means and in accordance with the principles of justice 
and international law. To achieve that goal, the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  itself  recognizes  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  as  a  general  principle  of 
international law whereby States must refrain from the 
use or the threat of the use of force. To emphasize the 
supreme  importance  that  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations ascribes to maintaining international peace and 
security  and  to  the  development  of  friendly  relations 
and  cooperation,  States  declared  as  a  principle,  in 
resolution  2625  (XXV),  that  in  international  relations 
they would refrain from resorting to the threat or use of 
force  against 
integrity  or  political 
independence  of  any  State  —  or  in  any  other  manner 
inconsistent  with  the  purposes  of  the  United  Nations. 
Likewise,  they  deemed  it  imperative  for  all  States  to 
settle their international disputes by peaceful means in 
accordance with the Charter. 

The very establishment of the International Court 
of Justice was intended to contribute to the creation of 
a  universal  system  at  the  service  of  States  for  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  their  disputes,  in  accordance 
with 
the  Court’s 
decisions  resolve  the  legal  disputes  brought  to  it  by 
States  and  contribute  to  international  peacebuilding. 
Similarly, by means of its advisory opinions, the Court 
contributes to the development of international law and 
the primacy of the rule of law. 

Despite  the  sensitivity  of  the  issues  that  are  the 
subject  of  disputes  among  States  —  including,  among 
others, 
and  maritime 
demarcation,  diplomatic  protection,  environmental 
issues,  the  exercise  of  jurisdiction  and  the  system  of 
immunities — States have consistently chosen to come 
before  the  Court  to  resolve  such  disputes  definitively. 
That  shows  that,  thanks  to  the  judicial  quality  of  its 
decisions  and  its  independence  and  impartiality,  the 
Court enjoys a great degree of legitimacy. 
the 

International  Court  of  Justice  is  expressed  in  the 
Peru’s  commitment 
the  work  of 
territorial 
international 
law.  To 
that  end, 
questions 
of 
to 
10-60667 

A/65/PV.38
American  Treaty  on  Pacific  Settlement  of  1948, 
otherwise known as the Pact of Bogota, whereby States 
parties  agreed  always  to  avail  themselves  of  peaceful 
proceedings  to  resolve  disputes,  including  turning  to 
the  Court.  Peru  has  also  recognized  the  Court’s 
unconditional  competence  in  disputes,  in  accordance 
with  Article  36,  paragraph  2,  of  the  Statute  of  the 
Court. 

Similarly, the Manila Declaration on the Peaceful 
Settlement  of  International  Disputes,  adopted  by 
consensus  in  resolution  37/10,  established  that,  as  a 
general  rule,  disputes  of  a  legal  order  should  be 
brought before the International Court of Justice by the 
parties,  and  that  such  submissions  should  not  be 
considered  as  unfriendly  acts  among  States.  In 
accordance  with  this  acknowledgement,  Peru  deems  it 
of  the  highest  importance  that  the  Court’s  jurisdiction 
be  universally  accepted.  As  the  report  contained  in 
document  A/65/4  indicates,  currently  66  States  have 
issued  statements  acknowledging 
the  compulsory 
jurisdiction of the Court, although in many cases such 
statements  have  been  made  with  reservations.  In  that 
connection,  Peru  appeals  to  States  that  have  not  yet 
done  so  to  accept  the  Court’s  compulsory  jurisdiction 
on disputes. 

As States, we are obliged to respect the decisions 
of the Court. As a State respectful of international law, 
Peru  therefore  reiterates  its  commitment  to  comply 
with  the  obligations  stemming  from  the  Statute  of  the 
Court  and  urges  other  States  to  comply  with  its 
decisions. 

As  we  reaffirm  our  full  support  for  the  work  of 
the  Court,  we  must  also  acknowledge  the  outstanding 
work of its judges. Both their superior legal skills and 
efficient  management  have  made  it  possible  for  the 
Court  to  adopt  measures  aimed  at  allowing  it  to  carry 
out its tasks more easily, despite the greater number of 
cases before it. 

In  terms  of  disputes,  the  Court  has  had  a  heavy 
docket  over  the  course  of  the  past  year  with  the 
submission  of  four  new  cases  and  one  request  for  an 
advisory  opinion.  Those  new  cases  must  be  added  to 
the  pending  cases,  which  bring 
the  number  of 
proceedings to 17 and two advisory procedures during 
the current period. 

We  must  also  emphasize  the  important  outreach 
work  done  by  the  Court,  especially  by  means  of  its 
official publications and its Internet portal, which is an 
19 

the 
that 
States  must  ensure 
that  benefits  and  enriches 
A/65/PV.38 

invaluable  tool.  Similarly,  the  dialogue  between  the 
Court and various institutions such as the International 
Law  Commission,  various  national  and 
regional 
tribunals and academic bodies enables an exchange of 
opinions 
legal 
community and the promotion of the rule of law at both 
the international and national levels. 

the  Court  enjoys 
sufficient  resources  to  carry  out  the  tasks  entrusted  to 
it.  Thus  we  welcome  the  fact  that  in  2009,  additional 
posts  requested  for  legal  and  technical  assistants  were 
approved, as was the replacement and modernization of 
the equipment. However, a request remains pending for 
the  creation  of  additional  security  posts,  which  will 
make it possible to reinforce the performance of tasks 
and  confront  new  technological  threats  to  the  security 
of the Court’s information systems. In that context, we 
believe  the  request  referred  to  in  the  Court’s  report  is 
completely reasonable and should be heeded as swiftly 
as possible. 

Peru expresses its gratitude to those countries that 
have  contributed  to  the Trust  Fund  to Assist  States  in 
the  Settlement  of  Disputes  through  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  and  joins  in  the  appeal  of  the 
Secretary-General  to  all  States  and  relevant  bodies  to 
cooperate with the Fund. 

Lastly,  I  would  not  like  to  conclude  without 
putting  on  record  my  country’s  congratulations  to  the 
Court’s  two  new  Judges,  Xue  Hanqin  and  Joan  E. 
Donoghue.  We  also  wish  to  express  our  warmest 
gratitude  to  retiring  Judges  Shi  Jiuyong  and  Thomas 
Buergenthal  and  to  thank  them  for  their  valuable 
contribution. 
Mr. Sene (Senegal) (spoke in French): Allow me 

at the outset to thank the President of the International 
Court  of  Justice,  Mr.  Hisashi  Owada,  for  his  rich  and 
detailed  presentation  of  the  activities  of  that  body  for 
the  period  from  1  August  2009  to  31  July  2010.  I 
would also like to extend my thanks to all the staff of 
the Court. 

I  wish  to  say  how  pleased  my  delegation  is  to 
take  part,  once  again  this  year,  in  the  annual  meeting 
that gives us an opportunity to review the report of the 
International  Court  of  Justice  (A/65/4).  For  Senegal, 
this  gathering  is  a  timely  opportunity  to  focus  on  the 
constructive action of the Court in promoting the ideals 
of  peace  and  justice,  which  are  at  the  base  of  the 
creation  of  the  United  Nations.  The  emergence  of  a 
link 
in 
law  and 
international 
character  with 
general 
the  main 
fairer  and  more  peaceful  world  requires  in  particular 
promoting respect for the rule of law and the peaceful 
settlement of disputes. 

It goes without saying that the International Court 
of  Justice,  which  is  the  only  international  body  of  a 
jurisdiction, 
universal 
undoubtedly  constitutes 
the 
international legal order. Its everyday activities help in 
the promotion of international justice, the development 
of 
the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. 

Senegal,  firmly  committed  to  promoting  justice 
and  the  rule  of  law,  reiterates  its  confidence  in  the 
International  Court  of  Justice. And  that  confidence  is 
undoubtedly  best  reflected  by  its  recognition  of  the 
compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  Court,  pursuant  to 
Article 36 of its Statute. 

My  delegation  welcomes  the  high  number  of 
applications  submitted  to  the  Court,  which  reflects, 
moreover,  the  growing  acceptance  of  the  primacy  of 
law throughout the world and of the interest that States 
accord to the peaceful settlements of disputes. 

The  importance  of  the  role  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  as  the  principal  legal  organ  of  the 
United Nations in dispute settlement can be gauged by 
the  increasing  confidence  placed  in  it  today  by  States 
turning  increasingly  to  the  wisdom  of  its  judges.  In 
promoting  the  legal  settlement  of  disputes,  the  Court 
helps to mend relations between States and contributes 
considerably  to  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security. 

Along  the  same  lines,  basing  its  work  on  the 
promotion of the rule of law, the International Court of 
Justice also contributes to respect for the rule of law at 
the  international  level.  Moreover,  the  orders  and 
decisions  handed  down  by  the  Court  in  serving 
jurisprudence  and  legal  rationale  in  several  situations 
helps to enhance, codify and unify international law. 

For all of those reasons, my delegation reiterates 
its full support for the International Court of Justice. It 
commends  its  praiseworthy  efforts  to  enhance  its 
efficacy  and  calls  for  it  to  be  given  the  necessary 
resources to duly carry out its noble missions. 

The  review  of  the  report  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  seems  also  to  be  a  timely  moment  to 
recall  —  if  that  were  still  necessary  —  that  the 
beneficial effects of the peaceful settlement of disputes 
20 

10-60667 
has 
a 
(Sudan) 
(spoke 
Mr.  Ali
the  United  Nations  and 
Our  Organization,  which 


no  longer  need  to  be  proven.  The  reference  in  the 
United Nations Charter to the settlement of disputes by 
peaceful  means  in  conformity  with  the  principles  of 
justice  and  international  law  as  one  of  the  essential 
goals  of 
the  principal 
instrument  for  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security sums up in itself all its importance. 

special 
responsibility  in  the  sphere  of  promoting  dispute 
settlement, should continue its efforts to help Member 
States  submit  their  disputes  before  the  International 
Court of Justice. 
in  Arabic):  Our 

delegation  welcomes  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  in  document A/65/309,  and  the  report  on  the 
work of the International Court of Justice in document 
A/65/4, which covers the period from 1 August 2009 to 
31  July  2010.  We  also  welcome  the  presence  of 
Mr. Hisashi  Owada,  President  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  and  his  presentation  on  the  work  of 
the Court. 

The  report  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
reaffirms the positive developments in the work of the 
Court  and  the  fact  that  it  is  considering  a  growing 
number  of  cases  submitted  to  it.  That  is  proof  of  the 
Court’s increasing importance to this Organization and 
to Member States. 

high 
professionalism  of  the  judges  of  the  Court  and  its 
rulings  and  advisory  opinions  and  the  high  quality  of 
the  Court’s  work,  which  qualifies  it  to  continue  its 
function in support of international peace. 
While  we  reiterate  the  important  role  of  the 

International  Court 
continued 
impartiality  —  in  which  we  are  confident  —  has 
continued 
international 
community,  as  indicated  by  the  growing  number  of 
cases  on  its  docket. We  also  commend  the  active  role 
played  by  the  Court  and  its  advisory  opinions  in 
support  of  the  principles  of  State  sovereignty  and 
non-interference  in  the  affairs  of  other  States,  in  line 
with  the  principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and 
established norms of international law. 

Our  delegation  also  welcomes  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General on the Trust Fund to Assist States in 
the  Settlement  of  Disputes  through  the  International 
Court  of  Justice 
the 
(A/65/309).  We  welcome 
commends 
delegation 
to  gain 
the 
trust  of 
the 
Our 
the 
of 
Justice, 
its 
A/65/PV.38
takes 
Chile 
this  opportunity 
information  it  contains  and  call  for  providing  more 
support to the Court so that it may maintain its judicial 
role. 

In  conclusion,  we  also  want  to  express  our 
confidence  that  the  Court  will  continue  its  judicial 
process,  which  has  been  distinguished  by  objectivity, 
professionalism  and  impartiality,  in  the  service  of 
protecting international law from politicization. 
Mr. Errázuriz (Chile) (spoke in Spanish): First, I 

wish  to  join  in  the  expressions  of  condolence  offered 
by  the Ambassador  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  speaking 
for the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States, 
on  the  unfortunate  death  of  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Barbados,  David  John  Howard  Thompson.  Our  entire 
region  is  in  mourning.  On  behalf  of  my  Government 
and  on  my  own  behalf,  I  wish  to  extend  our  most 
sincere  condolences  to  the  Government  and  people  of 
Barbados and to the family of the late Prime Minister. 
to  express  our 

appreciation to the President of the International Court 
of  Justice  for  presenting  the  comprehensive  report 
covering  the  period  from  1  August  2009  to  31  July 
2010 (A/65/4). 

The  significant  work  done  by  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  as  the  highest  judicial  organ  of  the 
United  Nations  and  the  mission  entrusted  to  it  by  the 
Charter for the peaceful settlement of disputes and for 
advisory functions have been highlighted in the report 
introduced  by  its  President  this  morning.  The  Court 
makes an outstanding contribution, in the framework of 
the  multilateral  system  of  peace  and  security,  to 
consolidating  relations  of  peace  and  friendship  among 
countries  and  to  strengthening  the  international  legal 
order  based  on  respect  for  the  law,  which  the  United 
Nations has, in the Charter, as its fundamental pillar. 

The  Court  has  a  huge  task  to  perform  in  the 
current  international  context,  because  of  the  existence 
of  numerous  multilateral  treaties  requiring  judicial 
settlement  of  disputes  as  well  as  of  the  application  of 
mechanisms  accepted  by  countries  in  their  unilateral 
declarations or in bilateral treaties. 

As  in  previous  years,  we  reiterate  that  the 
advisory 
is  particularly 
important,  as  demonstrated  by  its  opinions  based  on 
international law, which provide substantive support to 
the work of the United Nations.  
function  of 
the  Court 
10-60667 

21 

to 
A/65/PV.38 


Our  country  continues  to  believe  that  the  Court 
should  be  given  the  necessary  material  and  human 
means and resources to deal correctly with the increase 
in  its  caseload  and  with  the  responsibilities  which  it 
must assume in the context of international law. 

We  also  express  our  appreciation  for  the  Court’s 
efforts to widely publicize its work and make it broadly 
accessible 
international  public  opinion,  using 
modern  methods  and  technologies.  Thanks  to  those 
efforts, international law itself is strengthened, and we 
must  give  ongoing  and  broad  support  to  the  activities 
of  the  Court.  We  emphasize  our  interest,  shared  with 
the  Ibero-American  community,  in  making  available  a 
Spanish-language  version  of  the  judgments  of  the 
International Court of Justice. 

As regards the case brought against Chile before 
the  International  Court  of  Justice,  my  Government 
once  again  expresses  its  confidence  in  the  efficacy  of 
international law and in respect for treaties. 

I shall conclude by reiterating our recognition of 
the commendable work of the Court and its invaluable 
contribution to the observance of international law. 
Mr.  Gevorgian  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  Allow  me  to  express  our  gratitude  to  the 
President  of 
International  Court  of  Justice, 
Mr. Hisashi Owada, for his introduction of the Court’s 
report (A/65/4). 

The  past  year,  like  previous  years,  was  very 
productive  for  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  The 
caseload  considered  by  the  Court  was  unprecedented, 
which  reflects  the  increasing  level  of  confidence  of 
States  in  the  principal  legal  organ  of  the  United 
Nations. 
to  speak 

regarding  the  Court’s  activities  at  a  closed  meeting  of 
the  Security  Council.  We  spoke,  inter  alia,  of  our 
position regarding the advisory opinion of the Court on 
the question of the legality of the unilateral declaration 
of  independence  by  Kosovo. An  important  part  of  the 
advisory  opinion  is  the  confirmation  of  the  fact  that 
Security  Council  resolution  1244  (1999)  continues  to 
be  in  force  and  continues  to  apply  to  the  situation  in 
Kosovo.  In  effect,  the  opinion  confirms  that  the 
process  for  defining  the  final  status  of  Kosovo  is  not 
over and that talks on the issue must continue. 

case 
Currently  the  Russian  Federation  is  a  party  to  a 
International 
entitled  Application  of 
Yesterday  we  had  an  opportunity 
the 
the 
regarding 
Convention  on  All  Forms  of  Racial  Discrimination 
(Georgia v. Russian Federation), instituted by Georgia 
against  Russia.  The  Russian  Federation  has  submitted 
its  preliminary  objections 
the  Court’s 
jurisdiction  over  this  case.  A  month  ago  the  oral 
hearings  on  the  case  were  completed.  Now  we  are 
awaiting the Court’s decision. 

I  would  like  to  briefly  outline  our  grounds  for 
arguing  that  the  Court  does  not  have  jurisdiction  over 
this case. 
In order to recognize the jurisdiction of the Court 

on  the  Convention  on  Racial  Discrimination,  two 
conditions  need  to  be  met:  first,  the  presence  of  a 
dispute pertaining to the Convention, and secondly, the 
applicant State must institute proceedings as envisaged 
under Article  22  of  the  Convention,  which  states  that 
prior  to  filing  an  application  with  the  International 
Court of Justice, talks must be held and the Committee 
on  the  Elimination  of  Racial  Discrimination  must  be 
addressed. Neither circumstance is present in this case. 
Prior to Georgia’s filing the application with the Court, 
no  dispute  existed  between  Russia  and  Georgia  over 
racial  discrimination  in  Abkhazia  and  South  Ossetia. 
Nor  has  Georgia  ever  brought  that  matter  up  with  the 
Committee 
of  Racial 
Discrimination. 

On  those  grounds  we  have  every  reason  to 
believe  that  this  case  has  been  artificially  tied  to  the 
Convention  and  brought  before 
the  Court  with 
exclusively spurious political motives. 
In  addition,  the  case  in  question  has  unique 

features 
the  Court  has  never  previously 
encountered  in  its  practice.  For  the  first  time  in  the 
history  of  international  jurisprudence,  a  suit  has  been 
brought against a State that is not a party to the dispute 
but  a  formerly  internationally  recognized  peacemaker 
and mediator in negotiations. Moreover, Georgia itself 
recognized  Russia’s  peacekeeping  mission,  requested 
such  help  through  official  channels  and  has  never 
attempted 
the  Russian  peacekeeping 
forces’  mandate.  And  there  is  another  unique  feature 
here.  The  suit  was  cynically  brought  by  a  State  that 
attempted  to  settle  an  inter-ethnic  conflict  by  using 
armed  brute  force,  both  against  civilians  and  against 
peacekeepers  who  were  acting  with  its  consent  and 
under an international mandate. 
We sincerely hope that these factors will be duly 

taken into consideration in the decision on the question 
Elimination 
terminate 
that 
the 
on 
to 
22 

10-60667 
in 
its 
in 
to 
the 
recognizing 
jurisdiction  of 


of  jurisdiction  in  the  case  of  Georgia  v.  Russia. 
Otherwise, this would send an incorrect signal to States 
that  might  wish  to  resolve  their  disputes  by  peaceful 
means,  as  envisaged  by  the  United  Nations  Charter. 
Besides  that,  it  would  undermine  the  standing  of  the 
Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination 
and  other  bodies  working  in  the  area  of  human  rights 
that  were  specifically  created  to  settle  contentious 
issues.  The  result  would  be  that  the  carefully  honed 
methods  of  settling  international  disputes,  which  have 
been  developed  over  many  years,  could  simply  be 
ignored,  and  people  would  resort 
the  Court 
immediately. 

Furthermore, this could send a negative signal to 
peacekeeping  States,  whose  peacekeeping  contingents 
could  almost  always  be  accused  of  violating  the 
provisions  of  the  International  Convention  on  the 
Elimination  of  All  Forms  of  Racial  Discrimination. 
There is also the risk that States would be much more 
cautious 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice  regarding  international 
agreements.  We  hope  that  the  Court  will  take  into 
account  all  of  these  points  when  formulating  its 
decision  on 
the  case  under 
discussion. 

We  should  note  that  the  Russian  Federation  is 
firmly  committed  to  the  principle  of  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  international  disputes.  We  are  confident 
that the International Court of Justice, as the main body 
of  international  justice,  will  continue  to  demonstrate 
the  highest  standards  of  jurisprudential  practice  and 
will  remain  a  paragon  of  objective  and  independent 
international  justice,  whose  authoritative  opinion  on 
the most complex issues will continue to contribute to 
strengthening international order. 
Mr. Riyan (India): Before I start, I would like to 

express my sincere condolences to the Government and 
people of Barbados on the sad demise of their beloved 
Prime Minister, The Honourable David Thompson. 

It gives me great pleasure to address this plenary 
meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the  report 
(A/65/4)  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  the 
principal judicial organ of the United Nations. I would 
like  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Court  for  his 
comprehensive and lucid presentation of the report. 

Justice  was 
established,  along  with  other  organs  of  the  United 
Nations, to save future generations from the scourge of 
International  Court 
jurisdiction 
The 
of 
A/65/PV.38
judicial 
institutions  have 
war  and  to  find  a  way  to  settle  inter-State  disputes 
through  peaceful  means  by 
the  application  of 
international  law.  The  Court  still  remains  the  only 
judicial  body  whose  legitimacy  is  derived  from  the 
Charter and enjoys general jurisdiction, while all other 
international 
specific 
competences  and  lack  jurisdiction  of  a  universal 
nature.  The  Statute  of  the  Court  has  been  made  an 
integral  part  of  the  Charter,  a  status  that  is  unique  to 
the Court and not held by any other international court 
or tribunal to date. 

All  States  are  free  to  approach  the  Court  for 
resolution  of  their  disputes  with  other  States.  Under 
Article  36  of  the  Charter,  the  Security  Council  may 
also  recommend  that  the  parties  refer  their  legal 
disputes to the Court, while the General Assembly and 
the  Security  Council  may  seek  its  advisory  opinions. 
Those provisions clearly indicate the central role given 
to the Court within the United Nations system. 

The Court’s judgements have played an important 
role  in  the  interpretation  and  clarification  of  the  rules 
of  international  law,  as  well  as  in  its  progressive 
development 
codification.  The  Court  has 
and 
performed 
judicial  functions  while  remaining 
careful  to  respect  political  realities,  the  sentiments  of 
States  and  its  own  Statute.  It  has  emphasized  the  rule 
of  law  and  the  role  of  international  law  in  regulating 
inter-State  relations,  despite  the  fact  that  inter-State 
relations are necessarily political in nature. It has also 
contributed  significantly  to  settling  legal  disputes 
between  sovereign  States,  thus  promoting  the  rule  of 
law in international relations. 

India  firmly  believes  that,  owing  to  the  Court’s 
unique position in the United Nations, no other judicial 
organ  in  the  world  possesses  its  capacity  to  deal  with 
international  problems.  Since  its  inception,  the  Court 
has dealt with a wide variety of complex legal issues. It 
has  pronounced  judgment  in  areas  covering  territorial 
and  maritime  delimitation,  diplomatic  protection, 
environmental  concerns,  racial  discrimination, 
the 
violation  of  human  rights  and  the  application  of 
international treaties and conventions. Such judgments 
have  played  an  important  role  in  the  progressive 
development and codification of international law. 

At  present,  there  are  four  new  contentious  cases 
and  one  new  advisory  proceeding  before  the  Court. 
Those  cases  deal  with  a  diversity  of  subjects,  ranging 
from  diplomatic 
and 
jurisdiction 
relations 
its 
to 
10-60667 

23 

The  growing 
acceptance  of 
A/65/PV.38 

enforcement  of  judgments  in  civil  and  commercial 
matters  and  to  an  administrative  matter  related  to  the 
International  Labour  Organization.  The  Court  is  also 
dealing  with  geographic  issues,  as  in  the  case  of 
whaling  in  Antarctica.  The  cases  before  it  involve 
countries  from  all  over  the  world,  including  States  in 
Europe,  Latin  America,  Africa  and  Asia,  and  thus 
reflect its universality. 

the  Court’s 
jurisdiction by States further highlights the importance 
of  the  Court  and  the  confidence  of  the  States  in  the 
Court’s ability to resolve their legal disputes. This has 
greatly  increased  the  workload  of  the  Court.  As  of 
31 July  2010,  the  number  of  contentious  cases  on  the 
docket of the Court stood at 15, as compared to 13 one 
year earlier. 

To  enable  the  Court  to  fulfil  its  task,  it  is 
necessary  that  the  Court  be  provided  with  adequate 
resources,  so  that  it  can  respond  efficiently  and  in  a 
timely manner to the expectations of States that submit 
their disputes to it for settlement. 
Mr. Tang (Singapore): My delegation would like 

to  express  its  thanks  to  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  for  the  comprehensive  and  informative  report 
on  its  work  from  1  August  2009  to  31  July  2010 
(A/65/4).  It  is  evident  that  the  Court  has  had  an 
extremely  busy  year  dealing  with  a  myriad  of  legal 
issues.  It  is  therefore  a  testament  to  the  leadership  of 
President  Hisashi  Owada,  whom  my  country  had  the 
honour to receive as a guest speaker earlier this year at 
the  Singapore  Academy  of  Law,  that  the  Court  has 
been able to discharge its duties with the highest levels 
of competence and professionalism. 

that 
international relations must be governed by the rule of 
law  in  order  to  preserve  international  peace  and 
stability.  Fundamental  to  the  rule  of  law  is  the  notion 
that disputes must be resolved through peaceful means. 
Where disputes — in particular those that have become 
intractable  over  time  —  cannot  be  resolved  through 
informal  processes  such  as  negotiations  or  mediation, 
serious  consideration 
to 
the 
adjudication of the dispute by a neutral third party. 

Needless  to  say,  the  Court  plays  a  vital  role  in 
that regard. Under international law, there is no formal 
hierarchy  among  the  various  judicial  mechanisms  and 
international tribunals, but it is incontrovertible that the 
Court commands immense prestige and authority. First, 
firmly  held  view 
should  be  given 
is  Singapore’s 
It 
of 
and 
such 
there  have  been 
issues  have  been 
provisional  measures 
it is the only international court of a universal character 
with  general  jurisdiction.  Secondly,  it  is  the  principal 
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations  and  draws  on  a 
heritage  dating  back  to  the  Permanent  Court  of 
International  Justice.  Its  judgments  have  been,  and 
continue  to  be,  extremely  influential  and  have  a  deep 
impact  on  the  development  of  international  law.  The 
Court  therefore  plays  a  fundamental  role  in  ensuring 
that  the  rule  of  law  in  international  relations  is 
maintained and strengthened. 

During  the  period  covered  in  the  report  under 
consideration, 
a  number  of 
jurisprudential  developments  of  particular  interest  to 
my  delegation.  We  note  that  the  Court  has  taken  the 
opportunity to clarify the jurisprudence  relating to the 
seeking 
other 
jurisdictional  issues,  given  the  number  of  cases  in 
which 
raised.  These 
clarifications  are  useful  in  this  developing  area  of 
international law and, given the increase in the number 
of  cases  where  such  arguments  are  being  made,  we 
anticipate  that  there  will  be  other  occasions  in  the 
future  for  further  elaboration  and  development.  We 
also  note  the  increasing  number  of  disputes  involving 
issues  of  environmental  law  that  are  being  brought 
before  the  Court.  We  look  forward  to  receiving  the 
views of the Court on those issues, given the dynamic 
growth  of  that  area  of  law  and  their  pertinence  to  the 
global community. 
We have also keenly followed the deliberations of 

the  Court 
the  unilateral 
declaration  of  independence  in  respect  of  Kosovo, 
since  this  is  an  area  of  law  which  is  of  importance  to 
all  countries.  As  we  have  observed  on  previous 
occasions, this issue involves a complex factual matrix, 
and  in  that  regard,  we  were  gratified  that  the  Court 
took great care to seek the views of the actors involved 
in that declaration in order to ascertain the complex set 
of events that led to it. We likewise welcomed the fact 
that  numerous  countries  took  an  active  role  in  the 
deliberations and provided their views on the issues at 
hand. That inclusive process displayed the seriousness 
with  which  the  Court  undertook  its  duties  in  the  case 
and also demonstrated the high level of engagement of 
the  international  community  in  an  issue  of  deep  legal 
importance and augurs well for the continued strength 
of the rule of law at the international level. 
With  regard  to  the  administration  of  the  Court, 

my delegation applauds the continuing steps taken by it 
the  case  concerning 
in 
24 

10-60667 


to  streamline  its  procedures  and  to  clear  its  backlog. 
That  will  further  assist  in  assuaging  the  concerns 
expressed in certain quarters in relation to the pace of 
proceedings before the Court. My delegation urges the 
Court not to let up in that regard, and in particular, to 
arrange  for  the  commencement  of  oral  proceedings  as 
soon  as  possible  after  the  conclusion  of  the  written 
phase  of  the  proceedings.  We  are  also  encouraged  to 
read  that  work  is  proceeding  on  the  modernization  of 
the Great Hall of Justice, including the introduction of 
information technology resources on the judges’ bench 
and we look  forward to the speedy completion of that 
work. 

Singapore  notes  the  request  made  by  the  Court 
for  additional  security  posts  in  paragraph  26  of  its 
report. It is the view of my delegation that that request  

A/65/PV.38
was  not  made  lightly,  given  that  it  was  pursuant  to  a 
security  audit  triggered  by  the  heightened  risk  of 
terrorist  attacks.  Unfortunately,  those  risks  have  not 
lessened  with  time.  Given  the  central  role  that  the 
Court  plays  and  the  range  of  issues  that  it  must  deal 
with,  including  some  of  a  highly  controversial  nature, 
it is only right and prudent that we support that request. 

In  conclusion,  Singapore  reiterates  its  belief  that 
the  Court  plays  a  vital  role  in  ensuring  the  existence 
and  maintenance  of  the  rule  of  law  in  international 
relations. We continue to hold the Court in our deepest 
regard  and  pledge  our  continued  support  for  its  work. 
We  wish  the  Court  every  measure  of  success  in 
meeting its future challenges and in the discharge of its 
duties for the year ahead. 

  The meeting rose at 1 p.m. 
10-60667 

25 
