
A/65/PV.39
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

39th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 28 October 2010, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 
  In the absence of the President, Mrs. Rubiales de 
Chamorro  (Nicaragua),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

  The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m. 












Agenda item 70 (continued)
Report of the International Court of Justice 

their  significant  contribution 
  Report of the International Court of Justice 
(A/65/4) 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/65/309) 

Mr. Böhlke (Brazil): Let me start by thanking the 

President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  Judge 
Hisashi Owada, for his comprehensive  briefing on the 
work of the Court. I commend the judges of the Court 
for 
the  effective 
application  of  international  law.  I  also  wish  every 
success  to  the  recently  elected  members  of  the  Court, 
Judges Xue Hanqin of China and Joan E. Donoghue of 
the United States of America. 

I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  Registrar  of  the 
Court  for  his  important  work.  As  we  know,  the 
Registrar  performs  a  central  function  in  providing 
administrative  services  to  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  and  in  acting  as  an  officer  in  the  daily  legal 
activities of the Court. 

Nations, all Member States made a clear commitment 
In  the  Preamble  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
to 
“to  establish  conditions  under  which  justice  and 
respect  for  the  obligations  arising  from  treaties 
and  other  sources  of  international  law  can  be 
maintained”. 
Furthermore, numerous other provisions of the Charter 
make specific reference to the importance of upholding 
the  principles  and  norms  of  international  law  and 
ensuring the peaceful settlement of disputes. 

The  International  Court  of  Justice  is  a  key 
element  in  the  efforts  to  achieve  those  goals.  By 
resolving  international  disputes  and  issuing  advisory 
opinions, the Court not only strengthens the rule of law 
on  a  global  scale,  thus  enhancing  predictability  and 
stability in international relations, but also contributes 
to the maintenance of international peace and security. 

The  International  Court  of  Justice  has  been 
addressing  cases  whose  subject  matter  touches  a  wide 
range  of  sensitive  issues,  such  as  territorial  and 
maritime 
concerns, 
jurisdictional  immunities  of  the  State,  violation  of 
territorial  integrity,  racial  discrimination  and  human 
rights  violations.  Over  the  past  year,  the  Court  has 
taken  up  four  new  cases  and  received  one  request  for 
an advisory opinion. The number of  contentious  cases 
on  the  docket  remains  high,  standing  at  15  at  the 
moment,  compared  to  13  in  the  previous  year.  Also 
noteworthy  is  that  the  contentious  cases  come  from 
various parts of the world. 

Those  remarkable  aspects  of  the  recent  work  of 
the Court testify to its true universal character, its wide 
acceptance  and  the  trust  placed  by  the  international 
environmental 
delimitation, 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-61026 (E) 
*1061026* 


A/65/PV.39 

community  upon  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the 
United Nations. In order to maintain confidence in the 
Court, States that are parties to a case need to comply 
with  the  relevant  decision  made  by  that  organ,  in 
accordance with the Charter. 

My  delegation  welcomes  the  continued  efforts 
made  by  the  Court  to  increase  its  efficiency  and 
thereby enable it to cope with the steady increase in its 
workload. We note that the cases referred to the Court 
are  growing  in  factual  and  legal  complexity,  as  have 
the  several  phases  of  the  process,  which  may  include 
preliminary objections or requests for the indication of 
provisional  measures.  However,  justice  needs  to  be 
served speedily in order to strengthen the rule of law at 
the international level. 

Brazil  notes  with  satisfaction  that  the  General 
Assembly responded positively to the request made by 
the International Court of Justice to establish new law 
clerk posts with a view to enabling each member of the 
Court  to  benefit  from  personalized  legal  support  and 
thus to devote more time to reflection and deliberation. 
We  also  welcome  the  creation  of  posts  to  manage  the 
new  telecommunications  infrastructure  of  the  Court 
and  better  assist  the  Registrar.  The  Court  should  be 
granted  all  the  assistance  it  needs  to  discharge  its 
functions  in  an  expeditious,  effective  and  impartial 
manner. 

In conclusion, I wish to reiterate the unwavering 
support  of  my  delegation  for  the  work  undertaken  by 
the  Court  and  its  significant  contribution  to  the 
continued  strengthening  of  a  rules-based  international 
system.  The  Court  has  played  a  key  role  in  the 
fulfilment  of  the  purposes  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  and  will  continue  to  do  so  in  the 
future  as  the  world  becomes  more  integrated  and 
interconnected. 
Mr.  Ojo  (Nigeria):  The  delegation  of  Nigeria 

wishes  to  join  all  other  delegations  in  expressing  its 
condolences  to  the  family  of  the  late  Prime  Minister, 
Mr.  David  Thompson,  as  well  as  to  the  Government 
and  the  good  people  of  Barbados,  on  the  untimely 
death of Mr. Thompson. 
The Nigerian delegation welcomes and expresses 

its  appreciation  to  the  President  of  the  International 
Court of Justice, His Excellency Judge Hisashi Owada, 
for the leadership he has provided, and we congratulate 
the new Judges that were elected earlier this year. 
and 
application 
of 

We  commend  the  report  contained  in  document 
A/65/4,  which  has  comprehensively  summed  up  the 
activities of the Court for the period under review. My 
delegation also notes that the Court, which is not only 
a  principal  organ  of  the  United  Nations  but  also  an 
international  court  of  universal  character  with  general 
jurisdiction,  has  over  time  successfully  mainstreamed 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  on  a  growing 
number of diverse issues, while excluding all political 
considerations.  The  scope  of  cases  handled  by  the 
Court  encompasses  a  wide  variety  of  subjects  ranging 
from  territorial  and  maritime  delimitation,  diplomatic 
protection,  environmental  concerns, 
jurisdictional 
immunities  of  States,  violation  of  territorial  integrity, 
racial  discrimination,  violation  of  human  rights,  and 
interpretation 
international 
conventions and treaties. 

The increased recourse to the Court by States for 
judicial  settlement  of  disputes  on  diverse  issues  is  a 
clear demonstration of the confidence they have in the 
Court  and  the  acceptability  of  this  judicial  institution. 
We  are  pleased  with  the  commitment  of  the  Court  to 
improve  its  efficiency  in  order  to  cope  with  its 
increasing workload. We note with satisfaction that the 
Court  has  continued  to  re  examine  its  procedures  and 
working  methods.  It  is  heartening  to  note  that  efforts 
are  being  made  to  strengthen  the  staff  of  the  Court’s 
Registry,  to  improve  on  skills  and  efficiency  of 
delivery, and to provide incentives to Judges. 

On  the  issue  of  recognition  of  the  Court’s 
compulsory jurisdiction, my delegation  wishes to note 
that  States  parties  cannot,  on  one  hand,  establish  the 
Court  as  the  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations  in  a 
mandatory manner, while at the same time viewing the 
recognition  as  a  matter  of  voluntary 
issue  of 
acceptance  by 
therefore 
saddening that many decades after the establishment of 
the  Court,  only  66  declarations  of  recognition  have 
been received. 
We therefore appeal to all the countries that have 

yet to do so to accede to the declaration of recognition 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  in  view  of  the 
Court’s central role in the consolidation of the  rule  of 
law  at  the  international  level. The  referral  of  cases  to 
the  Court  offers  more  peaceful  options 
the 
settlement  of  disputes  between  States  than  do  the 
costly  exchange  of  hostilities.  Nigeria’s  acceptance  of 
the  Court’s  judgment  in  the  celebrated  Bakassi  case 
with the Republic of Cameroon is worthy of emulation. 
individual  nations.  It 
is 
in 
2 

10-61026 
effective  mechanisms 
in  addressing  disputes  between  States, 



However, we also wish to use this opportunity to 
emphasize that the Court should endeavour to develop 
more 
for  monitoring 
implementation of the Court’s decisions as well as for 
evaluating the moral and legal outcomes of its advisory 
opinions. 
Mr.  Zaimov  (Bulgaria):  Let  me  first  thank 

President  Owada  for  his  presentation  of  the  report  of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  covering  the  period 
from 1 August 2009 to 31 July 2010 (A/65/4). 
Bulgaria attaches great importance to the Court as 

the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations  and 
the  only  international  court  of  a  universal  character 
with  general  jurisdiction.  Since  its  establishment,  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  has  played  an  important 
role 
thus 
contributing  to  the  development  of  international  law 
and the promotion and strengthening of the rule of law. 
By  being  a  cornerstone  for  the  peaceful  resolution  of 
disputes, which is fundamental for the maintenance of 
international peace and security, the Court has acquired 
a  solid  reputation  as  an  impartial  institution  with  the 
highest legal standards, in accordance with its mandate 
under the Charter of the United Nations. 

Over  the  past  few  years,  the  number  of  cases 
pending before the Court has increased, standing at the 
present moment at 15. Contentious cases have grown in 
factual  and  legal  complexity  and  come  from  all  over 
the  world,  which  is  an  illustration  of  the  regional 
diversity  of  the  Court’s  cases  and  its  universality. 
Member States continue to reaffirm their confidence in 
the  Court’s  ability  to  resolve  their  disputes.  The 
Court’s advisory opinions carry great weight and moral 
authority, often serving as an instrument of preventive 
diplomacy,  and  have  an  ever-increasing  value  for  the 
clarification  of  the  status  of  international  law  on 
different issues. 

The increasing caseload before the Court, coming 
from  so  many  different  geographical  regions  is  not 
only  a  testament  to  the  growing  recognition  of  the 
Court’s vital role in the settlement of disputes, but also 
proof of the confidence that States have in the Court. 
A  case  in  point  in  that  regard  is  the  changing 

docket  of  cases  entrusted  to  the  Court,  the  scope  of 
cases  and 
in 
complex  aspects  of  public  international  law.  While  in 
the  past  most  of  the  cases  brought  before  the  Court 
related to territorial and maritime delimitation disputes, 
the  Court’s  growing  specialization 
A/65/PV.39
to  accept 
least, 
Last  but  not 
In  conclusion,  Bulgaria  reaffirms 
a  growing  number  of  new  types  of  cases  have  been 
referred to it recently, such as jurisdictional immunities 
of the State, jurisdiction and enforcement of judgments 
in  civil  and  commercial  matters,  whaling  in  the 
Antarctic, aerial herbicide spraying, and so on. 

It is worth noting that regard that the time needed 
for rendering decisions and advisory opinions has been 
decreasing. 

On  behalf  of  my  Government,  I  would  like  to 
take this opportunity to encourage all States  that have 
not  done  so 
the  Court’s  compulsory 
jurisdiction under Article 36 of the Statute of the Court 
in  order  to  further  enhance  its  role  in  contributing  to 
the maintenance of international peace and security and 
the rule of law. 

let  me  also  note  with 
satisfaction the recent election of two judges, whom we 
congratulate.  They  are  the  first  female  judges  to  sit 
concurrently  on  the  Court,  which  we  consider  to  be  a 
positive  step  in  addressing  the  gender  balance  of  the 
Court. 

support for the International Court of Justice. 
Mr. Tladi (South Africa):  I thank you,  Madame, 

for affording us the opportunity to deliver a statement 
on  the  report  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
(A/65/4).  I  also  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Court, Judge Owada, for his presentation of the Court’s 
report. 
our  warm 

congratulations and welcome to Judge Xue Hangin and 
Judge Joan Donoghue upon their election to the Court. 
At 
thank  Judges  Shi  and 
Buergenthal  for  the  contribution  that  they  have  made 
over the years to the Court. 

This  delegation  has,  on  a  number  of  occasions, 
stressed  the  importance  of  judicial  settlement  for  the 
promotion  of  the  rule  of  law  and  the  pursuit  of  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.  The  willingness  of  States  to  refer  matters  to 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  facilitates 
the 
development  of  international  law  as  an  instrument  for 
creating a better world for everyone. This, after all, is 
the  very 
the  existence  of  modern 
international  law  beyond  the  State-centred  pre-Second 
World  War  international  law.  It  is  for  that  reason  that 
we note with pleasure that the number of cases on the 
Allow  me 
the  same 
time,  we 
reason 
for 
its  strong 
also 
to 
extend 
10-61026 

3 

of 
develops 
principles 
A/65/PV.39 

Court’s docket continues to grow. We welcome the four 
new submissions made to the Court in the period under 
review, while noting that a fifth has been withdrawn. 

In  our  previous  statement  on  the  report  of  the 
Court,  we  made  specific  reference  to  cases  involving 
environmental  protection  on 
the  Court’s  docket, 
namely  the  cases  entitled  Pulp  Mills  on  the  River 
Uruguay (Argentina v. Uruguay) and Aerial Herbicide 
Spraying  (Ecuador  v.  Colombia).  We  stated  our 
eagerness for the judgments to be handed down in the 
hope that they will build on the already rich wealth of 
jurisprudence on the environment in international law. 
Indeed,  the  Court’s  decision  on  the  Pulp  Mills  case 
further 
international 
environmental  law.  While  the  Court’s  determination 
that  there  was  an  obligation  to  cooperate  is  based 
principally  on  treaty  obligations  under  the  Statute  of 
the  River  Uruguay,  the  Court  clearly  draws  upon 
general  principles,  in  particular  in  making  the  link 
between  obligations  that  are  both  procedural  and 
substantive. 

The principle of prevention, enunciated in earlier 
Court decisions, notably in the Corfu Channel (United 
Kingdom v. Albania) case and in the Advisory Opinion 
on the Legality of the Use or Threat of Use of Nuclear 
Weapons, was drawn upon significantly by the Court in 
reaching  this  decision. This  principle,  which  was  first 
enunciated in that famous arbitral decision in the Trail 
Smelter  case,  is  also  contained  in  both  the  Stockholm 
Declaration  on  the  Human  Environment  and  the  Rio 
Declaration  on  Environment  and  Development.  The 
Pulp  Mills  on  the  River  Uruguay  case  illustrates, 
therefore,  the  Court’s  continuing  contribution  to  this 
constantly developing area of international law. 
Allow me to digress momentarily. The Pulp Mills

case  is  important  not  only  for  the  environmental 
principles  it  enunciates,  but  also  with  respect  to  the 
question of the Court’s assessment of evidence. In that 
respect,  we  have  taken  note  of  the  joint  dissenting 
opinion  of  Judges  Al-Khasawneh  and  Simma,  which 
suggests that in such cases there is a need for the Court 
to  appoint  its  own  experts  to  assess  the  evidence.  We 
recall that in 2006, then-President of the Court Higgins 
noted  the  particular  difficulties  that  the  Court,  which 
was  not  designed  to  evaluate  evidence,  faced  when 
parties  to  a  dispute  presented  conflicting  and  often 
complex evidence. This is an issue that will need to be 
addressed  one  or  way  or  another.  Nonetheless,  we 
keenly  await  the  Court’s  judgment  in  the  Aerial 
Herbicide  Spraying  case  and  hope  that  it  will  also 
make a contribution to the relevant principles. 

We  have  also  noted  that  another  environmental 
case has been added to the Court’s docket, namely, the 
Whaling in the Antarctic (Australia v. Japan) case, and 
are looking forward to the Court’s decision in that case, 
which,  we  hope,  will  similarly  contribute  to  the  body 
of  law  governing  the  environment,  in  particular  in 
respect of the law of the sea. 

South Africa  has,  on  a  number  of  occasions  and 
in  various  forums,  spoken  of  the  importance  of 
advisory opinions as a tool for the peaceful settlement 
of  disputes.  An  advisory  opinion  that  was  eagerly 
anticipated  in  many  quarters  is  the  Advisory  Opinion 
on  the  Accordance  with  international  law  of  the 
unilateral  declaration  of  independence  in  respect  of 
Kosovo.  My  delegation  had  already  expressed  its 
eagerness  for  the  release  of  that Advisory  Opinion  in 
our  statement  at 
the  sixty-fourth  session.  Many 
international  law  experts,  including  those  supporting 
the  unilateral  declaration  of  independence  and  those 
opposed to it, felt somewhat disappointed or, to put it 
mildly,  somewhat  underwhelmed  by 
the  Opinion. 
Many  of  us  had  expected  the  Court  to  make  a 
significant  contribution 
in 
particular  by  exploring  the  intersection  of  various, 
sometimes  conflicting,  principles  of  law.  We  had 
anticipated,  for  example, 
the 
relationship  between  territorial  integrity,  the  right  to 
self-determination  and 
sovereignty,  among  other 
things.  While  the  Court,  of  course,  declared  the 
principle  of  territorial  integrity  to  be  limited  only  to 
inter-State relations, we can find no a priori reason for 
that  conclusion.  We  had  anticipated,  also,  that  the 
Court would shed some light on the applicability of the 
right to self-determination and its confines beyond the 
context of colonialism. 

Instead,  the  Court,  as  we  heard  this  morning, 
decided  to  interpret  narrowly  —  and  remarkably 
literally — the question put to it, in such a manner that 
the  Opinion,  in  the  final  analysis,  does  little  to  assist 
either  the  General  Assembly  or  the  international 
community of States in grappling with the real question 
that the drafters of the question had intended to seek an 
opinion  on.  We  must  recall  that  the  purpose  of  an 
advisory opinion is to assist the author of the request. 
While  a  purely  literal  interpretation  might  justify  the 
narrow  approach  adopted  by  the  Court,  the  Court  has 
itself  noted  in  this  and  other  advisory  opinions  —  for 
the  exploration  of 
international 
law, 
to 
4 

10-61026 
in 


instance in the Legal Consequences of the Construction 
of  a  Wall 
the  Occupied  Palestinian  Territory 
question  —  that  it  may  “broaden,  interpret  and  even 
reformulate the question”. 

If the Court felt it inappropriate for other reasons 
to deliver an opinion on the real question, then, as the 
dissenting  opinion  of  Judge  Bennouna  mentions,  the 
Court could,  as its jurisprudence allows, have decided 
not  to  exercise  its  jurisdiction,  even  though  legally  it 
had such jurisdiction. However, my delegation stresses 
that this discretion should be exercised sparingly. 

Nonetheless,  we  are  pleased  that  the  various 
dissenting  and  separate  opinions  of  the  Court,  most 
notably  the  dissenting  opinion  of  Judge  Koroma,  the 
separate  opinions  of  Judges  Yusuf  and  Trindade,  and 
the declaration of Judge Simma, provide a rich source 
of analysis of the legal issues in question, and we hope 
that delegations will consult them, as they continue to 
discuss  and  consider  the  question  of  a  unilateral 
declaration of independence. 

Finally,  we  are  pleased  to  note  the  various  other 
non-judicial  activities  of  the  Court,  including  the 
hosting  of  a  number  of  visits  and  the  publications  of 
the Court. 
Mr.  Tsiskarashvili  (Georgia):  My  delegation 

would like to join previous speakers in welcoming the 
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  His 
Excellency  Hisashi  Owada,  and  to  commend  him  for 
the informative presentation he made earlier today (see 
A/65/PV.38).  Georgia  takes  note  of  the  report  of  the 
International Court of Justice (A/65/4) presented to the 
General  Assembly  today  for  its  consideration.  The 
report  briefly  outlines  developments  concerning  the 
case 
the  Russian 
Federation in 2008 with regard to the latest violation of 
its obligations under the Convention on the Elimination 
of All Forms of Racial Discrimination by orchestrating 
ethnic cleansing and discrimination involving violence 
and 
to 
deprivation  of their  fundamental  rights, including safe 
and dignified return to their homes in two provinces of 
their  country,  namely, 
the  Tskhinvali  region  and 
Abkhazia. 

its  written  and  oral 
arguments  to  the  International  Court  of  Justice  in 
compliance  with  the  schedule  set  by  the  Court.  From 
13  to  17  September  2010,  the  Court  held  a  public 
hearing  on  the  case,  where  both  sides  presented  their 
subjection  of  numerous  Georgians 
instituted  by  Georgia  against 
Georgia  has  submitted 
the 
A/65/PV.39
in 
to 
justice  for  hundreds  of 
legal  arguments  voiced  earlier 
respective positions. At this stage, the deliberations on 
jurisdiction  for  consideration  of  the  case  by  the  Court 
are pending. Therefore, we will refrain  from rebutting 
the 
this  Hall. 
Georgia’s  written  and  oral  submissions  are  fully 
available  on  the  website  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice.  We  have  full  confidence  in  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  and  respect  for 
its  rules  and 
procedures. 

This conflict has generated almost two decades of 
human  suffering,  and  the  Court  is  the  last  resort  and 
symbol  of 
thousands  of 
Georgians  who  have  been  denied  their  basic  rights, 
including their right to return to their homes. There is a 
dispute  between  Russia  and  Georgia  under 
the 
International  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All 
Forms  of  Racial  Discrimination,  and  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  is  the  most  appropriate  forum  for  the 
resolution  of  that  dispute.  In  conclusion,  I  would  like 
to reiterate our strong support for the Court in its role 
as  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations. 
As  has  been  mentioned  here,  the  Court  plays  a  vital 
role in the peaceful settlement of international disputes 
and in strengthening the international legal order. 
Mr.  Argüello  (Nicaragua)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Before making our comments, allow me to express, on 
behalf  of 
the  Government  of  Reconciliation  and 
National  Unity,  the  deepest  condolences  of  the  people 
of  Nicaragua  in  view  of  the  untimely  passing  of  the 
former President of Argentina, Néstor Kirchner. 

to  His 
Excellency  Judge  Hisashi  Owada,  President  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  for  his  report  (A/65/4). 
The  fact  that  the  judicial  year  of  2009  to  2010  was  a 
year  of  great  activity  and  that  it  is  anticipated, 
moreover,  that  the  next  year  will  be  equally  intense, 
confirms  the  relevance  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  as  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations  and  as  the  only  international  court  of  a 
universal character with general jurisdiction. 
In this regard, we underscore that the work of the 

Court  contributes  not  only 
the  promotion, 
strengthening and spread of the rule of law but also to 
the enhancement of global security, as it promotes the 
settlement of disputes by peaceful means, which is the 
fundamental  purpose  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
permanent hope of humankind. 
its  gratitude 
Nicaragua 
expresses 
10-61026 

5 
through 
available 
render 
the  means 
jurisdiction  of 
the  Court  and 
A/65/PV.39 

We  regret  the  fact  that  to  date,  as  is  reflected  in 

the 
the  report,  only  66  States  have  recognized 
compulsory 
that, 
furthermore,  a  number  of  those  recognitions  contain 
in  many  cases 
reservations,  which 
the 
acceptance  of 
that 
jurisdiction  meaningless.  We 
encourage  all  States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to 
recognize  the  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  and,  thus,  to 
contribute to the strengthening of the rule of law at the 
international level. 

Nicaragua has anchored its international relations 
in friendship, solidarity and reciprocity among peoples 
and  that  is  why  we  have  not  only  recognized  the 
principle  of  the  peaceful  settlement  of  international 
disputes 
under 
international  law,  but  have  also  made  use  of  those 
means on many occasions and continue to do so. In the 
past 26 years, Nicaragua has participated as a plaintiff 
or as a defendant in seven major cases and a number of 
smaller  cases brought before the Court. Those matters 
range  from  the  cases  of  the  military  and  paramilitary 
actions  in  and  against  Nicaragua  in  Nicaragua  v.  the 
United States of America, decided by the Court in June 
1986,  to  the  current  pending  case  of  Nicaragua  v. 
Colombia,  in  which  public  hearings  were  held  last 
week  in  order  to  address  the  applications  to  testify 
submitted by both Costa Rica and Honduras. Nicaragua 
has  thus  not  demonstrated  not  only  its  confidence  in 
international  justice  by  responding  to  its  call  and 
availing  itself  of  it  on  repeated  occasions,  but  also  its 
willingness  to  make  proposals  to  strengthen  and 
promote  mechanisms  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes. 

In that regard, allow us to recall that the initiative 
to  declare  the  United  Nations  Decade  of  International 
Law was launched by Nicaragua, which presented that 
initiative through the Non-Aligned Movement in 1988. 
initiative  contained  a  fundamental  element, 
That 
namely 
the  promotion  of  universal  compulsory 
mechanisms for the peaceful settlement of disputes, in 
particular  through  recourse  to  the  International  Court 
of  Justice.  A  ministerial  meeting  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement was convened to that end, in The Hague in 
June 1989, which culminated in a declaration by more 
than  80  Member  States,  representing  at  that  time  a 
significant  majority  of  the  membership  of  the  United 
Nations, which included the adoption of an initiative to 
present  the  proposal  of  the  Decade  of  International 
Law to the General Assembly. 


The raison d’être of that initiative was to restore 
the  spirit  that  had  imbued  the  first  two  International 
Peace  Conferences,  convened  in  The  Hague  in  1899 
and  1907,  which  sought  to  establish  a  universal 
compulsory  mechanism  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes. That mechanism, which could not in the end 
be  established  at  those  first  Conferences,  is  today 
crystallised  in  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  and 
our  work  today  is  to  ensure  that  the  Court  truly 
becomes  a  universal  compulsory  mechanism  without 
any loopholes that could hamper the compulsory nature 
of  its  jurisdiction  and  with  the  proper  resources  to 
guarantee compliance with its decisions. 

Nicaragua  is  of  the  view  that  what  has  not  been 
possible  to  establish  in  the past,  owing  perhaps  to  the 
international  situation  that  prevailed  at  the  end  of  the 
1980s,  should  be  taken  up  again  in  order  to  promote 
the universal acceptance of the compulsory jurisdiction 
of  the  Court. To  that  end,  Nicaragua,  once  again,  will 
take steps to revive that 25-year-old initiative. 

In  conclusion,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
express its great satisfaction with the work of the Court 
and  convey,  once  again,  our  gratitude  to  President 
Owada for the presentation of this report. 
Mr.  Martinsen  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Before I begin, I would like to thank the representative 
of  Nicaragua,  who  took  the  floor  before  me,  for  the 
words  of  condolence  and  sympathy  that  he  expressed 
to  the  nation  of Argentina  in  relation  to  the  untimely 
passing yesterday morning of the former head of State, 
Néstor Kirchner, who led the Argentines between 2003 
and 2007 and who was the spouse of our current head 
of  State,  Cristina  Fernández  de  Kirchner.  We  are 
grateful  for  those  remarks  as  well  as  for  all  the  other 
expressions of condolences that we have received since 
this sad event. 

the  Argentine  delegation 
would  like,  first  and  foremost,  to  commend  the 
recently  elected  judges  to  the  International  Court  of 
Justice,  Ms.  Xue  Hanqin  and  Ms.  Joan  Donoghue,  for 
their election. The Republic of Argentina wishes them 
the greatest success in their endeavours. 
the 

International Court of Justice, Mr. Hisashi Owada, for 
the presentation of the report (A/65/4) of the Court on 
its work during the past year, in particular, with regard 
to  the  case  between  Argentina  and  Uruguay  on  the 
construction of pulp mills on the left bank of the River 
Before  proceeding, 
the  President  of 
Argentina  also 
thanks 
6 

10-61026 


Uruguay,  in  which  the  Court  issued  its  judgment  this 
past 20 April. 

In  relation  to  that  case,  the Argentine  delegation 
recalls  that  Argentina  had  initiated  the  proceedings 
before the International Court of Justice in connection 
with  the  violation  by  Uruguay  of  its  procedural  and 
substantial  obligations  under  the  Statute  of  the  River 
Uruguay  of  1975  in  authorizing,  unilaterally  and 
without prior consultation, the construction of two pulp 
mills and a port terminal on the left bank of the River 
Uruguay  in  disregard  of  its  obligations  in  terms  of 
information  and  prior  consultation  provided  for  in  the 
Statute, as well as in connection with the considerable 
harm done to the River Uruguay and its riparian areas 
as a result of the functioning of one of mills, the Orion 
plant,  although  the  other  mill,  that  of  the  Empresa 
Nacional de Celulosas de España, was not, in the end, 
constructed. 

As  recalled  by  the  President  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  in  his  statement  this  morning,  the 
Court  found 
that  Uruguay  had,  as  claimed  by 
Argentina,  repeatedly  violated  the  rules  of  the  Statute 
by failing to inform the Administrative Commission of 
the  River  Uruguay 
granting 
authorization for the construction of the plants and the 
port  terminal  and  by  failing  to  notify  Argentina  of 
those projects through the Commission. 

statements 
concerning scientific evidence, which, as he indicated, 
was  extensively  presented  by  the  parties,  Argentina 
concurs that the evaluation of reports of that kind can 
be  particularly  complex,  especially  if  they  contain 
divergent  arguments  and  conclusions.  In  that  regard, 
Argentina  agrees  that,  in  controversies  related  to  the 
environment  in  which  it  is  increasingly  necessary  to 
assess  complex  scientific  evidence,  it  will  be  difficult 
for the Court to arrive at a conclusion without recourse 
to  the  tools  provided  by  the  resolution  concerning  the 
internal  judicial  practice  of  the  Court  of  1976,  which 
President  Owada  mentioned.  Beyond  that,  it  is  also 
relevant to mention the provisions of Article 50 of the 
Statute of the Court and of article 67 of its rules. In that 
light,  clearly  the  Court  should  in  our  case  have 
considered the technical problems and arguments, with 
the  assistance  of  objective  technical  experts,  so  as  to 
form  its  own  opinion  on  the  scientific  evidence 
provided. 
the  President’s 
(CARU) 
before 
regard 
With 
to 
A/65/PV.39

Perhaps  because  it  did  not  bring  those  means  to 
bear,  the  Court  in  our  case  —  despite  the  scientific 
evidence  provided  by  Argentina  —  could  not 
conclusively  establish  Uruguay’s  violation  of 
the 
substantive  norms  of 
the 
the  1975  Statute  and 
significant  harm  already  done  to  the  River  Uruguay 
and its surrounding areas. 

Nevertheless,  the Argentine  delegation  wishes  to 
underscore  the  importance  of  paragraph  281  of  the 
Judgment, in which the Court instructs both parties as 
follows: 
(spoke in English) 

“[T]he  Court  points  out  that  the  1975  Statute 
places the Parties under a duty to co operate with 
each other, on the terms therein set out, to ensure 
the  achievement  of  its  object  and  purpose.  This 
obligation  to  co  operate  encompasses  ongoing 
monitoring  of  an  industrial  facility,  such  as  the 
Orion  (Botnia)  mill.  In  that  regard  the  Court 
notes  that  the  Parties  have  a  long-standing  and 
effective 
tradition  of  co  operation  and  co 
ordination  through  CARU.  By  acting  jointly 
through  CARU,  the  Parties  have  established  a 
real  community  of  interests  and  rights  in  the 
management  of  the  River  Uruguay  and  in  the 
protection  of  its  environment.  They  have  also 
coordinated 
joint 
mechanism  of  CARU,  in  conformity  with  the 
provisions  of 
the  1975  Statute,  and  found 
appropriate  solutions  to  their  differences  within 
its  framework  without  feeling  the  need  to  resort 
to the judicial settlement of disputes provided for 
in Article 60 of the Statute until the present case 
was brought before the Court.” 
their  actions 
through 
the 
(spoke in Spanish) 

Argentina  is  pleased  to  report  that,  in  order  to 
start  the  implementation  of  the  mandate  provided  by 
the Court in paragraph 281 of its Judgment, Argentina 
and  Uruguay  have  concluded  agreements  at 
the 
presidential  and  ministerial  levels  for  implementing  a 
plan  for  the  continuous  monitoring  of  the  functioning 
of the Orion (Botnia) pulp mill — currently owned by 
UPM — and of its effects on the River Uruguay. 
Mr. Morejón (Ecuador) (spoke in Spanish): First 

of all, allow me to express solidarity — as many have 
this  morning  and  this  afternoon  —  with  our  brother 
country Barbados for the untimely passing of its Prime 
10-61026 

7 

of 
Barbados, 
Government 
the  people 
sets  out 
the 
the  work  of 
solidarity  with 
the  President  of 
A/65/PV.39 

Minister  David  John  Howard Thompson,  who  has  left 
this world too soon, and to express the solidarity of the 
people  and  Government  of  Ecuador  with  the  people 
and 
especially 
Mr. Thompson’s family. 

We must also take this opportunity to express our 
solidarity  with Argentina. We were deeply affected by 
the  news  of  the  passing  of  our  friend  and  colleague 
Néstor  Kirchner.  Yesterday, 
the 
Republic of Ecuador, in his capacity as the pro tempore 
Chair of the Union of South American Nations, issued 
on behalf of the people and Government of Ecuador a 
statement  of 
and 
Government  of  Argentina,  in  particular  to  Cristina 
Fernández  and  her  children.  May  Mr.  Kirchner  rest  in 
peace. 

The  delegation  of  Ecuador  wishes  to  convey  its 
particular gratitude to the President of the International 
Court  of  Justice,  Mr.  Hisashi  Owada,  for  the  valuable 
report  he  has  submitted  on 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice  over  the  past  year 
(A/65/4),  which 
important  work 
accomplished by the Court in addressing many delicate 
cases  under  its  jurisdiction.  Ecuador  wishes  also  to 
gratefully acknowledge the work of Judges Shi Jiuyong 
and  Thomas  Buergenthal,  whose  contributions  now 
form part of the acquis  and prestige of the Court, and 
welcomes  the  appointment  of  the  new  Judges  of  the 
Court,  Ms.  Xue  Hanqin  and  Ms.  Joan  Donoghue,  to 
whom  we  wish  every  success  as  they  take  up  their 
sensitive duties.  
The  variety  of  legal  disputes  brought  before  the 

Court  reaffirms 
the 
procedures  of  that  fundamental  organ  of  the  United 
Nations.  Moreover,  we  cannot  but  note 
from 
Mr. Owada’s  report  that  a  third  of  the  issues  and 
disputes  currently  under  consideration  by  the  Court 
involve countries of the Latin American and Caribbean 
region,  which  shows 
is  firmly 
committed  to  compliance  with  international  law  and 
above all to the principle of the peaceful settlement of 
disputes. 

and 
competence of the International Court of Justice, based 
on  the  constitutional  principle  of  the  recognition  of 
international law as a norm governing conduct. In that 
vein,  we  underscore  the  importance  that  we  attach  to 
the  advisory  function  of  the  Court,  given  that  its 
the  prevailing  confidence 
that  our  region 
Ecuador 
recognizes 
the 
jurisdiction 
in 
targeting 
opinions  are  a  fundamental  basis  for  the  undertakings 
of the United Nations as a whole. 

We  agree  with  those  delegations  that  today  have 
stressed  the  need  to  ensure  that  the  Court  is  equipped 
with all necessary resources, both human and material, 
if  it  is  to  handle  the  increase  in  its  workload  and 
responsibilities.  Ecuador  also  commends  the  Court’s 
outreach  activities 
international  public 
opinion  about  its  work.  This  also  reflects  a  genuine 
dissemination of international law. 
To conclude, we wish to underline the importance 

of Mr. Owada’s words when he notes in his statement 
that 

“[i]t is no exaggeration to say that the rule of law 
now  permeates  every  aspect  of  the  activities  of 
the  United  Nations,  from  the  maintenance  of 
peace  and  security  to  the  protection  of  human 
rights,  and  from  the  fight  against  poverty  to  the 
protection  of  the  global  environment,  including 
the case of climate change” (A/65/PV.38). 
for 
thanks 
Justice  during 
President  Owada 
We therefore share the view that in the realm of action, 
the  role  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  is 
fundamental. 
Ms.  Adams  (United  Kingdom):  The  United 

Kingdom 
his 
comprehensive and thorough report on the work of the 
International  Court  of 
the  past 
12 months (A/65/4) and for his statement this morning. 

I  would  like  to  start  by  reaffirming  the  United 
Kingdom’s  strong  support  for  the  International  Court 
of  Justice  in  the  vital  role  it  plays  as  the  principal 
judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  The  four  new 
contentious  cases  initiated  this  year,  which  involve 
States from Australasia, Latin America, Africa, Europe 
and  Asia,  underline  the  continuing  confidence  that 
States  place  in  the  Court  as  a  forum  for  dispute 
resolution.  The  range  of  cases  also  illustrates  that  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  is  truly  a  world  Court 
whose jurisdiction is respected in all parts of the globe. 
That fact has been further emphasized by the numerous 
expressions of support for the Court during our debate 
today. 

The past 12 months have been a busy year for the 
Court.  The  trend  of  an  increasing  workload  shows  no 
sign  of  abating.  Against  that  background,  the  United 
Kingdom welcomes the Court’s continued commitment 
its 
to  enhancing 
its  efficiency  and  re-examining 
8 

10-61026 


procedures and working methods, and we congratulate 
the Court again on having cleared its backlog of cases. 
However,  the  annual  report  also  notes  that  the  cases 
referred  to  the  Court  are  growing  in  factual  and  legal 
complexity.  It  may  therefore  be  that  the  Court  will 
need to explore further reforms to enable it to continue 
to  deal  with  such  complex  cases  in  an  efficient  and 
effective manner. 

The United Kingdom believes that the role played 
by the Court would be further enhanced if more States 
were  to  accept  its  compulsory  jurisdiction.  We  note 
that 
the  number  of  States  accepting  compulsory 
jurisdiction  still  stands  at  66,  including  the  United 
Kingdom itself. We continue to encourage other States 
to  accept  the  Court’s  compulsory  jurisdiction  while 
acknowledging that other mechanisms exist for dispute 
resolution. 

Briefly,  with  regard  to  the  advisory  opinion  on 
the Accordance with international law of the unilateral 
declaration  of  independence  in  respect  of  Kosovo,  the 
United  Kingdom  has  noted 
the  views  of  other 
delegations  expressed  during  this  debate.  The  United 
Kingdom  does  not  dispute  that  Security  Council 
resolution 1244 (1999) remains in force, but we do not 
draw the same conclusion from that fact as others. We 
that  Kosovo’s 
welcome 
declaration 
violate 
international  law,  and  we  believe  that  the  opinion’s 
publication  should  mark  an  end  to  discussions  on 
Kosovo’s status. 

In conclusion, I would like to reiterate the United 
Kingdom’s  sincere  appreciation  for  the  work  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  and  to  assure  President 
Owada  of  the  United  Kingdom’s  continued  strong 
support  for  the  important  role  played  by  the  Court  in 
the international system. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

representative  of  Serbia  has  requested  to  speak  in 
exercise  of  the  right  of  reply.  May  I  remind  her  that 
statements  in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are 
limited  to  10  minutes  for  the  first  intervention  and  to 
5 minutes  for  the  second  intervention,  and  should  be 
made by delegations from their seats. 
Mrs.  Lalic  Smajevic  (Serbia):  My  delegation 

would like to exercise its right of reply in response to 
the  statement 
the 
the  United  Kingdom  and  other 
representative  of 
remarks and comments on the Court’s advisory opinion 
the  Court’s  affirmation 
just  been  made  by 
independence 
that  has 
of 
did 
not 
A/65/PV.39
international 
on Accordance with international law of the unilateral 
declaration of independence in respect of Kosovo. 

We  believe  that  opening  a  debate  on  the  Court’s 
opinion on an issue of great sensitivity and complexity 
in the light in which it was not meant to be understood 
can only be counterproductive and misleading, not only 
in this case but in numerous similar cases of ethnically 
based separatism in the world. 

Let  me  point  out  that  the  Court  stated  in 
paragraph  51  of  the  opinion  that  it  took  a  “narrow” 
approach to the question of the General Assembly. The 
Court in particular underlined that its advisory opinion 
does  not  deal  with  the  legal  consequences  of  the 
unilateral  declaration  of  independence  of  Kosovo  and 
that it does not address the validity of the legal effects 
of the recognition of Kosovo by third States. 

It  is  precisely  within  this  scope  and  meaning  of 
the  question  that  the  Court,  in  paragraph  84  of  the 
advisory opinion, stated that “the Court considers that 
general 
law  contains  no  applicable 
prohibition  of  declarations  of  independence”.  On  that 
basis,  the  Court  concluded  that  the  declaration  of 
independence  of  17  February  2008  did  not  violate 
general international law. 

Furthermore, it should be noted that the Court did 
not  consider  that  it  was  necessary  to  address  such 
issues as whether or not the declaration has led to the 
creation  of  a  State  or  the  status  of  the  acts  of 
recognition  in  order  to  answer  the  question  of  the 
General Assembly. 

In this context, it should be noted that the Court 
clearly  specified  in  paragraph  56  of  the  advisory 
opinion that the Court is not required by the question it 
has  been  asked 
take  a  position  on  whether 
international  law  confers  a  positive  entitlement  on 
Kosovo  to  unilaterally  declare  its  independence  or  a 
fortiori on whether international law generally confers 
an  entitlement  on  entities  situated  within  a  State 
unilaterally to break away from it. 

The  Court  underlined  that  it  is  entirely  possible 
for  a  particular  act,  such  as  a  unilateral  declaration  of 
independence,  not  to  be  in  violation  of  international 
law  without  necessarily  constituting  the  exercise  of  a 
right  conferred  on  it.  Additionally,  by  its  advisory 
opinion, 
that  both  Security 
Council  resolution  1244  (1999)  and  the  Constitutional 
Framework  of  Kosovo  promulgated  by  the  Special 
the  Court  reaffirmed 
to 
10-61026 

9 

A/65/PV.39 

Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  are  in  force 
and continue to apply. 

With this in mind, it is clear that the province of 
Kosovo  remains  a  territory  subject  to  an  international 
regime  whose  final  status  is  undetermined,  since  the 
political  process  designed 
to  determine  Kosovo’s 
future,  envisaged  in  paragraph  11  (a)  of  resolution 
1244 (1999), has not run its course. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): May I 

take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General Assembly  to 
conclude its consideration of agenda item 70? 

It was so decided. 





Agenda item 73 
Report of the International Criminal Court 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/65/313) 

  Report by the Secretary-General (A/65/315) 

The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I give 

the  floor  to  Mr.  Sang-Hyun  Song,  President  of  the 
International Criminal Court. 
Mr. Sang-Hyun Song: It is a great honour for me 

to address the General Assembly for the second time as 
the President of the International Criminal Court (ICC) 
and  to  present  the  Court’s  sixth  annual  report  to  this 
forum (see A/65/313). 

At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  offer  my  deepest 
condolences  to  the  Republic  of  Barbados  on  the 
untimely  passing  of  The  Honourable  Mr.  David  John 
Howard  Thompson,  the  late  Prime  Minister  of  that 
great country. 

The  past  year  has  been  very  eventful  for  the 
Court,  including  the  first  Review  Conference  of  the 
Rome  Statute,  the  first  arrest  warrant  issued  for  the 
crime  of  genocide,  the  first  situation  brought  to  the 
Court at the Prosecutor’s own initiative, the start of the 
second  trial,  and  the  voluntary  appearance  of  three 
suspects before the Court, as well as the first decision 
declining  to  confirm  charges  against  a  suspect.  Since 
my 
the  General  Assembly  (see 
A/64/PV.29),  four  more  nations  have  joined  the  ICC, 
bringing  the  total  number  of  States  parties  to  114.  I 
warmly  welcome  Bangladesh,  Seychelles,  Saint  Lucia 
and  Moldova 
the  ICC  family  of  countries 
dedicated to justice and ending impunity. 
last  briefing 
into 
to 
item  was 

Despite  the  impressive  progress  that  has  been 
achieved,  significant  challenges  remain  before  us, 
especially  with  respect  to  the  cooperation  of  States, 
which  is  the  backbone  of  the  ICC’s  work.  Since 
members have the Court’s report (see A/65/313) before 
them,  I  will  focus  my  remarks  on  a  few  key  areas. 
First, I will discuss the landmark event of this year: the 
Review  Conference  of  the  Rome  Statute  held  in 
Kampala,  Uganda.  Secondly,  I  will  give  an  update  on 
the activities of the Court, including a discussion of the 
challenges posed by State cooperation and a review of 
our work with respect to victims. Thirdly, I will discuss 
progress  towards  the  global  impact  of  the  Rome 
Statute. 

The first Review Conference of the Rome Statute 
was  held  from  31  May  to  11  June  in  Kampala.  In 
accordance  with  the  Statute,  the  Review  Conference 
was  convened  by  the  Secretary-General.  “The  old  era 
of impunity is over”, he said in his memorable opening 
speech, and continued, “In its place, slowly but surely 
the  birth  of  a  new  age  of 
we  are  witnessing 
accountability”.  The  main  agenda 
the 
possible amending of the Rome Statute with respect to 
the  crime  of  aggression,  which  States  were  unable  to 
agree  upon  at  the  Rome  Conference  in  1998.  An 
agreement  was  reached  on  the  last  day  with  the 
adoption  of  a  definition  of  the  crime  of  aggression 
based on General Assembly resolution 3314 (XXIX) of 
1974. The  Court’s  ability  to  exercise  jurisdiction  over 
the  crime  of  aggression  will  be  subject  to  a  new 
decision  to  be  taken  by  States  parties  after  1  January 
2017. 

A  pledging  ceremony  and  a  stocktaking  exercise 
were held in Kampala, creating significant potential for 
further enhancing the effectiveness of the Rome Statute 
system.  The  three  key  areas  that  require  continued 
attention are cooperation with the Court, strengthening 
national 
of 
complementarity,  and  global  ratification  of  the  Rome 
Statute.  The  Review  Conference  was  a  powerful 
reminder  of  the  strong  connection  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Court.  Several  high-level  United 
Nations  officials  participated  in  the  stocktaking  on 
international  criminal  justice  in  Kampala,  drawing 
attention to the invaluable role that the United Nations 
plays in promoting the rule of law, peace and justice in 
the world. 
Let  me  now  proceed  to  the  update  on  the 

activities of the Court. Its first trial, that of Mr. Thomas 
jurisdictions 
principle 
under 
the 
10 

10-61026 
in 


Lubanga  Dyilo,  is  approaching  its  conclusion.  He  is 
charged  with  the  recruitment  of  child  soldiers  under 
15 years  of  age  into  forces  under  his  command  and 
with  using  them  in  hostilities  in  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo.  Mr.  Lubanga’s  defence  began 
presenting its evidence on 7 January. 

The  second  trial  before  the  Court  started  on 
24 November  2009.  This  is  the  case  of  Mr.  Germain 
Katanga  and  Mr. Mathieu  Ngudjolo Chui, two  alleged 
former  military  leaders  charged  with  murder,  rape, 
attacks  on  civilians,  the  use  of  children  in  hostilities 
and  a  number  of  other  war  crimes  and  crimes  against 
humanity  allegedly  committed 
the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo. 

With  respect  to  the  situation  in  the  Central 
African  Republic,  Mr.  Jean-Pierre  Bemba  Gombo  is 
charged  with  murder,  rape  and  pillage  in  his  alleged 
capacity  as  a  military  commander.  His  trial  is  now 
ready  to  start,  after  the Appeals  Chamber  dismissed  a 
challenge  last  week  to  the  admissibility  of  the  case 
before the Court. The trial will begin on 22 November. 
This decision is but one example of the growing body 
of  jurisprudence  that  is  fortifying  the  Court’s  legal 
stability. 

In  the  situation  in  Darfur,  the  Sudan,  which  was 
referred  to  the  International  Criminal  Court  by  the 
Security  Council, 
three  people  have  appeared 
voluntarily  before  the  Court.  In  one  case,  that  of 
Mr. Bahr  Idriss  Abu  Garda,  the  Pre-Trial  Chamber 
declined  to  confirm  the  charges  against  the  suspect. 
This clearly demonstrates the total independence of the 
judges  and  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  from  each 
other.  The  hearing  on  the  confirmation  of  charges 
against 
two  other  persons,  Mr.  Abdallah  Banda 
Abakaer  Nourain  and  Mr.  Saleh  Mohammed  Jerbo 
Jamus, is scheduled to commence on 8 December. 

A  new  investigation  was  opened  during  the  past 
year  concerning  the  2007  2008  post  election  violence 
in  Kenya.  Seven  years  after  the  ICC’s  establishment, 
it  at 
this 
the 
Prosecutor’s 
subsequent 
authorization  by  the  Pre-Trial  Chamber.  Of  the  other 
four situations before the Court, three were referred by 
the  situation  countries  themselves,  and  one  by  the 
Security Council. 

judicial 
proceedings unfolding in its courtrooms, the Prosecutor 
is continuing his investigations into the five situations 
the  first  situation  brought 
the  growing  number  of 
initiative,  with 
Beyond 
own 
to 
is 
A/65/PV.39
in 
before the Court. He publicly announced that he would 
present two new cases in the Kenya situation before the 
end  of  this  year.  He  is  also  proactively  gathering  and 
analysing  information  on  crimes  that  may  have  been 
committed within the jurisdiction of the Court in other 
situations. The Prosecutor has publicly announced that 
he  is  looking  into  situations  concerning  Colombia, 
Georgia,  Afghanistan,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Palestine  and 
Guinea. 

Let  me  now  turn  to  the  question  of  cooperation 
with the Court, which is of paramount importance to its 
ability  to  fulfil  its  mandate.  I  am  delighted  to  report 
that  less  than  three  weeks  ago,  the  French  authorities 
apprehended  Mr.  Callixte  Mbarushimana,  a  Rwandan 
citizen and alleged senior member of the armed group 
Forces  démocratiques  de 
libération  du  Rwanda 
(FDLR), suspected of being criminally responsible for 
a wide  range  of  crimes against the civilian population 
in  the  Kivu  region  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo. His transfer to the seat of the Court is pending. 
The arrest of Mr. Mbarushimana was an excellent 

example  of  multilateral  collaboration 
to 
concrete  results  in  the  pursuit  of  international  justice. 
In  addition  to  France,  cooperation  was  provided  by 
other  States  parties,  as  well  as  non-parties,  including 
Germany,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and 
Rwanda.  At 
the  ICC  Prosecutor 
provided cooperation to the German authorities in their 
investigation  of  other  alleged  senior  leaders  of  the 
FDLR who were arrested in Germany last year. This is 
a clear example of positive complementarity in action. 

the 
Democratic  Republic  of 
latest 
developments  provide  hope  for  more  stability  and  the 
prevention of future crimes, which is the ultimate goal 
of 
the  Rome  Statute  system.  However,  another 
commander sought by the Court, Mr. Bosco Ntaganda, 
is  still  reported  to  be  at  large  in  Goma,  allegedly 
contributing  to  ongoing  crimes.  This  arrest  warrant 
must  be  executed,  and  I  call  on  all  relevant  actors  to 
cooperate to that effect. 

the 
International  Criminal  Court  are  outstanding  against 
eight  people.  This  is  having  a  devastating  effect  on 
victims  and  the  communities  affected  by  the  crimes 
under  the  Court’s  jurisdiction.  Four  of  those  avoiding 
the  Lord’s 
justice  are  alleged  commanders  of 
Resistance  Army  sought 
the 
After  years  of  continuous  violence 
in  connection  with 
arrest  warrants 
the  Congo, 
issued  by 
the  same 
leading 
these 
time, 
In 
total, 
10-61026 

11 

their  families,  even  before 
reparations ordered by the Court as a result of its trials, 
as  well  as  to  provide  physical  and  psychological 
rehabilitation  and  other  support  for  the  benefit  of 
victims  and 
judicial 
proceedings  are  concluded.  This  strikes  me  as  a  most 
important quality of the Trust Fund for Victims — the 
ability, at a very early stage, to engage in support of the 
victims of crimes in situations before the Court. 

At present, the Fund is reaching out to more than 
40,000  direct  and  many  more  indirect  beneficiaries  in 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Northern 
Uganda  and,  as  of  next  year,  the  Central  African 
Republic.  In  Ituri,  for  example,  the  Fund  has  been 
supporting  an  accelerated  learning  programme  and  a 
day-care  centre  for  girls  who  have  been  abducted  and 
raped and who have given birth while in captivity. For 
these  young  women,  their  babies  can  be  a  source  of 
stigma,  an  impediment  to  their  education  and  a 
constant  economic  burden.  The  Trust  Fund-supported 
school  gives  these  girls  a  chance  to  regain  the 
education they lost while in captivity and to develop a 
positive bond with their children. 

This example demonstrates the unique role of the 
Trust  Fund  at  the  crossroads  of  international  justice 
and  humanitarian  concern  for  victims,  acknowledging 
their  plight  and  restoring  their  human  dignity.  I 
consider  the  actions  of  the  Fund  to  be  highly  relevant 
to  the  ICC’s  overall  mission  and  worthy  of  the 
continued financial support of States and other donors. 

As  the  Secretary-General  said  at  the  opening  of 
the  Review  Conference,  the  ICC  must  have  universal 
support if it is to become an effective deterrent. While 
it  is  remarkable  that  as  many  as  114  States  from  all 
regions  of  the  globe  have  joined  the  Statute,  the  fact 
remains  that  large  parts  of  the  world’s  population  are 
for the time being outside the protection offered by the 
ICC system. 

I  hope  that  non-States  parties  will  consider 
possible ratification of the  Statute with an open mind. 
The lack of legal capacity should not be an obstacle for 
ratification.  Technical  assistance  for  that  purpose  is 
widely available from a variety of sources. Joining the 
ICC not only sends out a strong signal of commitment 
to  the  rule  of  law,  peace  and  justice,  but  it  also  gives 
the State in question the right to participate fully in the 
ICC’s  work.  Elections  for  the  post  of  Prosecutor  and 
six  vacancies  for  judges  will  be  held  in  2012;  now 
the  ICC 
Additionally, 
the 
arrest  warrants 
A/65/PV.39 

situation  in  Uganda;  the  warrants  for  their  arrest  have 
been  outstanding  for  more  than  five  years.  I  urge  the 
international community to intensify its efforts to bring 
these people to justice. 

In  the  situation  in  Darfur,  two  arrest  warrants 
have  been  pending  against  Mr.  Omar  Hassan  Ahmad 
Al-Bashir  since  the  Pre-Trial  Chamber  in  his  case 
issued  the  first  warrant  for  his  arrest  for  genocide 
before the Court on 12 July. Lastly, the arrest warrants 
issued  in  2007  against  Mr. Ahmad  Muhammad  Harun 
and Ali Muhammad Ali Abd-Al-Rahman have still not 
been  acted  upon,  and  on  25  May  the  ICC  Pre  Trial 
Chamber  decided  to  refer  the  matter  of  the  Sudan’s 
non-compliance  with  its  obligation  to  cooperate  with 
the Court to the Security Council. 

in  August, 
ICC  Pre-Trial 
Chamber  informed  the  Security  Council  and  the  ICC 
Assembly of States Parties, of Mr. Al-Bashir’s visits to 
two States parties, Kenya and Chad, despite the Court’s 
outstanding 
against  him.  The 
transmittal of this question to the Security Council and 
the  Assembly  of  States  Parties  underlines  the  purely 
judicial  nature  of  the  Court,  which  is  safeguarded  by 
the  option  to  refer  matters  with  potential  political 
implications to the appropriate political bodies for their 
consideration. 

The  situation  with  respect  to  the  outstanding 
arrest  warrants  is  deeply  troubling.  As  the  Assembly 
knows, 
is  completely  reliant  on  State 
cooperation  in  the  enforcement  of  its  orders  and 
decisions.  If  States  do  not  provide  the  cooperation 
necessary  for  the  Court’s  functioning  in  accordance 
with their legal obligations, the Court will not be able 
to  fulfil  its  mandate  and  impunity  will  continue  to 
flourish. 

is  of 
unprecedented value and is steadily expanding. One of 
the  greatest  innovations  of  the  Rome  Statute  was  to 
allow  the  participation  of  victims  in  the  proceedings 
even  when  they  are  not  called  as  witnesses.  In  the 
countries  where  we  have  active  cases,  the  ICC’s 
outreach  programme  communicates  with  the  local 
population,  informing  victims  of  their  rights  and 
helping  communities  generally  understand  the  Court’s 
mandate and proceedings. 

We  also  have  the Trust  Fund  for Victims,  which 
was  established,  pursuant  to  the  Rome  Statute,  to 
to  administer 
collect  voluntary  contributions  and 
The  ICC’s  engagement  with  victims 
12 

10-61026 


would be an excellent time to join and shape the future 
course of the ICC’s development. 

Let  me  recall  that  the  ICC  is  not  intended  to 
substitute  for  national  justice  systems.  The  Rome 
Statute  makes  it  very  clear  that  national  criminal 
jurisdictions  have  the  primary  responsibility  for  the 
prosecution  of  international  crimes,  the  ICC  being 
merely  a  safety  net.  The  domestic  justice  systems  of 
each  State  should  be  so  well  equipped  to  deal  with 
international  crimes  that  they  serve  as  the  main 
deterrent  worldwide.  This,  I  believe,  is  an  objective 
shared  by  all  States,  whether  they  are  parties  to  the 
Rome Statute or not. 

The  Review  Conference  created  significant 
momentum for broadening and deepening the Statute’s 
influence with respect to national jurisdictions, but that 
is  merely  the  beginning.  Far  more  needs  to  be  done, 
and  I  am  glad  to  see  discussion  starting  on  the 
mainstreaming of Rome Statute issues into rule of law 
and  judicial  reform  capacity-building.  The  United 
Nations is uniquely placed to facilitate that process. 

Another  momentous  year  is  behind  us,  and  the 
ICC  has  continued  its  progress  on  many  fronts.  This 
would  not  have  been  possible  without  the  relentless 
commitment of the international community, for which 
I  am  deeply  grateful.  Let  us  continue  to  build  on  our 
shared  values  so  that  we  may  move  a  step  closer  to 
eradicating impunity for the gravest crimes of concern 
to all of humanity. Member States should embrace the 
ICC — it is their court. 
Mr. Grauls (Belgium) (spoke in French): I have 

the honour to speak on behalf of the European Union. 
The  candidate  countries  Croatia  and 
the  former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia;  the  countries  of  the 
Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidates  Albania,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  and 
Montenegro;  and  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  Ukraine 
and Georgia align themselves with this statement. The 
European  Union  thanks  the  International  Criminal 
Court  (ICC)  for  its  sixth  annual  report  to  the  United 
Nations covering the period 1 August 2009 to 31 July 
2010 (see A/65/313). 
This  year,  four  new  States  from  four  different 

continents — Bangladesh, Seychelles, Saint Lucia and 
the Republic of Moldova — joined the circle of States 
parties  to  the  Rome  Statute,  bringing  that  number  to 
114. The European Union welcomes the new members 
to  achieve 
and  pledges 
to  continue 
its  efforts 
A/65/PV.39
into 
several 
that 
incidents 
universality  and  preserve  the  integrity  of  the  Rome 
Statute. 

During  the  period  under  consideration,  the  ICC 
launched  an  investigation  into  a  new  situation,  that  of 
Kenya; it conducted three trials; and in relation to the 
situation  in  Darfur,  it  took  a  decision  declining  to 
confirm  charges  against  a  suspect,  organized  the 
voluntary appearance of two other suspects, and issued 
a  second  arrest  warrant  for  President  Al-Bashir  on 
charges of crimes of genocide. 
Moreover,  the  Prosecutor  initiated  preliminary 

investigations 
the 
international  community  had  forcefully  condemned, 
including  the  atrocities  committed  on  28  September 
2009  in  Conakry,  Republic  of  Guinea.  Despite  certain 
difficulties, the past year has seen the Court make fresh 
progress towards meeting the hope placed in it  by the 
States  parties  and  the  victims  of  the  most  serious 
crimes. 

In  the  year  of  the  reporting  period,  the  first 
Review Conference of the Rome Statute was convened 
from 31 May to 11 June in Kampala by the Secretary-
General  in  his  capacity  as  depositary  of  the  Rome 
Statute.  The  European  Union  thanks  the  Ugandan 
authorities  and  commends  their  efforts  in  organizing 
that event in their country. The warm welcome and the 
positive  and  constructive  spirit  manifested  by  all 
delegations  present  were  certainly  instrumental  to  its 
success. 

The Kampala Conference successfully concluded 
its  discussions  on  three  amendments  to  the  Rome 
Statute:  the  first  on  article  124,  the  second  aimed  at 
extending  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  over  war  crimes  in 
situations  of  non-international  armed  conflict,  and  the 
third on the crime of aggression. The European Union 
commends  the  spirit  of  consensus  that  has  prevailed 
and  has  enabled  a  final  agreement  to  be  reached.  We 
can now say that the work initiated in Rome has finally 
reached fruition. 

Furthermore,  the  first  Review  Conference  of  the 
Rome  Statute  was  a  major  milestone  that  provided  a 
forum  for  the  States,  international  organizations  and 
representatives  of  civil  society 
in 
Kampala  to  reaffirm  their  resolve  to  promote  the 
Statute,  make  specific  pledges  to  that  end  and  submit 
themselves  to  a  stocktaking  of  international  criminal 
justice.  That  stocktaking  addressed  four  fundamental 
issues  in  the  Rome  Statute  system  and  culminated  in 
in  attendance 
10-61026 

13 
is  seized, 
A/65/PV.39 

the  adoption  of  two  resolutions  and  a  declaration.  It 
also clearly identified the  areas on which we ought to 
concentrate our efforts. 

Nevertheless, the recent report of the ICC, while 
commendable  insofar  as  it  describes  the  efforts  the 
Court has made in fulfilling its mission, raises serious 
questions. The number of acts of violence that continue 
to  be  perpetrated,  in  particular  against  women  and 
children  and  including  in  country  situations  of  which 
the  ICC 
is  extremely  worrying.  The 
international community must concentrate its efforts to 
ensure  that  the  Court  is  effective  in  punishing  those 
crimes and preventing them in the future. 

In  that  regard,  we  should  recall  one  of  the 
fundamental  principles  of  the  Rome  Statute,  namely, 
complementarity,  according  to  which  it  falls  first  and 
foremost to each State to investigate and prosecute the 
presumed  perpetrators  of  the  most  serious  crimes 
against  the  international  community.  The  Court  may 
exercise  its  powers  only  in  the  event  that  a  State  is 
unable or unwilling to do so. The European Union and 
its  member  States  are  determined  to  carry  out  their 
commitments 
for 
effective 
implementation of the Rome Statute. 

The  Court’s  report  underlines,  in  particular,  the 
need  to  reinforce  our  collective  and  individual  efforts 
to  ensure  that  the  international  arrest  warrants  issued 
by  it  are  enforced.  Particularly  in  that  regard,  the 
European  Union  also  recalls  that  Security  Council 
resolution  1593  (2005)  imposed  obligations  on  a 
non-State  party,  namely,  the  Sudan,  to  cooperate  with 
regrets 
the  Court.  The  European  Union 
the 
infringements  by 
international 
its 
obligations  and  commends  the  reaffirmation  by  the 
Kampala Review Conference of the need for all States 
parties  to  fully  meet  their  obligations  under  Part  9  of 
the Rome Statute. Accordingly, it expresses its concern 
about the difficulties raised by certain States parties in 
relation to the enforcement of those obligations. 

Unless  all  the  stakeholders  in  the  international 
community,  ranging  from  States,  whether  parties  or 
not,  to  international  organizations  to  civil  society,  put 
up  a  united  fight,  the  objectives  of  the  Rome  Statute, 
and more generally, the purposes and principles of the 
United  Nations  Charter 
promoting 
international  peace,  security  and  international  well-
being  will  not  be  achieved.  Despots  will  continue  to 
live  in  impunity  and  use  their  influence  to  continue 
the  Sudan  of 
aimed 
at 
to 
that 
end 
the 

their  activities  unchallenged.  As  for  the  victims,  they 
can  only  hope  that  justice  will  be  done  and  that  they 
will receive some form of compensation. 

The  support  that  the  Court  receives  from  the 
United  Nations  is  broadly  described  in  the  Court’s 
report. The European Union welcomes that support and 
calls on other international organizations to follow that 
example by stepping and formalizing their cooperation. 

The  European  Union  and  its  member  States 
undertake  for  their  part  to  pursue  their  efforts  in  the 
area  of  the  fight  against  impunity,  in  particular  by 
giving the Court all the diplomatic support it needs and 
by  continuing  dialogue  with  its  different  partners  to 
clear  up  any  misunderstandings  and  dispel  any 
concerns.  The  European  Union  has  been  relentless  in 
its efforts to date and undertakes to pursue them. 
Mr.  Kapambwe  (Zambia):  Let  me  begin  by 

conveying  the  condolences  of  my  Government  to  the 
Government  of  Barbados  on  the  recent  passing  of  the 
Prime Minister and to the Government of Argentina on 
the passing of the former President. 

At  the  outset,  the  African  States  parties  to  the 
Rome Statute wish to affirm their support for the fight 
against 
those  who  are 
implicated in the most serious crimes must be brought 
to account. We are committed to the universality of the 
Rome Statute and call on all States to ratify it. 

The  African  States  parties  welcome  the  sixth 
annual report of the International Criminal Court (ICC) 
as  submitted  to  the  United  Nations  in  document 
A/65/313. 

The  first-ever  Review  Conference  of  the  Rome 
Statute of the ICC, which took place in Kampala from 
31  May  to  11  June  2010,  can  be  seen  as  a  critical 
milestone  in  the  evolution  of  international  criminal 
justice,  as  it  amended  the  Rome  Statute  to  include  a 
definition of the crime of aggression and the conditions 
under which the Court could exercise jurisdiction with 
respect to that crime. The Kampala Review Conference 
should also be seen  as a continuation of the legacy  of 
Rome,  as  we,  States  parties,  continue  to  strive  for  a 
more  humane  world  in  which  we  do  not  commit 
heinous  crimes  against  one  another  and  in  which  we 
can  impose  severe  sentences  on  those  who  breach  the 
minimum  standards  of  treatment  that  we  have  set  for 
ourselves. 
impunity  and  assert 
that 
14 

10-61026 
involved 
is  unfairly 
in  establishing 
targeting  Africa.  But 



Turning  to  the  issue  of  cooperation,  we  concur 
with  those  who  say  that  the  fact  that  all  five  of  the 
Court’s current situations are in Africa, three of which 
were  self-referrals,  is  not  a  negative  reflection  on  the 
continent. On the contrary, it illustrates the high regard 
that those States have for the protection and promotion 
of the rule of law in that they have availed themselves 
of  the  judicial  assistance  provided  by  the  Court  in 
cases which, owing to their complexity and/or political 
sensitivity,  lend  themselves  to  being  better  dealt  with 
by the Court. 

But  we  also  need  to  avoid  the  perception  of 
seeing the ICC as targeting Africa. A central complaint 
by  some  African  officials  is  that  the  ICC’s  exclusive 
focus  on  investigations  in Africa  to  date  suggests  that 
the  Court 
this 
complaint  should  not  obscure  the  consistent,  active 
backing  for  the  ICC  among African  Governments  and 
civil society across the continent. 
It  is  well  known  that African  Governments  were 

actively 
the  ICC.  More 
importantly,  more  States  are  parties  to  the  Court  in 
Africa  than  in  any  other  region.  This  August,  yet 
another African State, the Seychelles, ratified the Rome 
Statute,  bringing  the  number  of  African  States  that 
have  done  so  to  31.  In  addition,  at  the  first  Review 
Conference  of  the  ICC  in  May  and  June  in  Kampala, 
African Governments reinforced strong African support 
for the Court’s work. African States parties participated 
actively,  often  represented  by  high-level  officials,  and 
made  strong  statements  in  support  of  the  work  of  the 
Court. 

However,  we  should  bear  in  mind  that  much  of 
the  African  Union’s  concern  with  regard  to  the  ICC 
relates to the Security Council’s inaction. The African 
Union  has  premised  its  call  for  non-cooperation  with 
the  ICC  on  the  Security  Council’s  ignoring  its  July 
2008  request  to  defer  the  case  against  President 
Al-Bashir  of  the  Sudan.  Even  among  officials  who 
strongly support the ICC concern has mounted that the 
Security Council has shown disrespect for the African 
Union  by  failing  to  respond  either  positively  or 
negatively  to  its  deferral  request.  Resolution  of  this 
issue is the only way to facilitate cooperation between 
the African Union and the ICC. 

In  the  light  of  the  foregoing,  we  implore  all 
stakeholders to become activists and urge the Security 
Council to respond to the request by the African Union. 
A/65/PV.39
appreciated 
by 
the 
and 
The 
important  role  played  by 
the  African  States  parties  reiterate 
The integrity of the Court and even that of the Security 
Council itself is at stake. 

international 
criminal justice  as  embodied in the  work of the Court 
and similar criminal tribunals, such as the International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda, 
the  International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  former  Yugoslavia  and  the 
Special Court for Sierra Leone, in establishing respect 
for  the  rule  of  law,  thus  bringing  about  peace,  order 
and  stability  in  conflict-torn  societies,  is  one  of  the 
greatest achievements of our time. 

The  African  States  parties  welcome  the  efforts 
made  by  the  Court  to  further  implement  its  strategic 
plan  and 
to  foster  cooperation  with  States  and 
international  and  regional  organizations.  Those  steps 
are  vital,  if  the  activities  of  the  Court  are  to  be 
understood 
diverse 
constituencies  that  it  was  created  to  serve.  In  that 
regard, 
their 
commitment  to  the  objectives  of  the  ICC  and  call  for 
the  establishment  of  a  suitable  mechanism  to  enhance 
cooperation between the Court and States parties. 
On  the  issue  of  geographical  representation  and 

gender  balance  in  the  recruitment  of  ICC  staff,  the 
African  States  parties  would  like  to  see  that  nationals 
of all States parties are given equal opportunity to work 
at the Court. The system of recruitment  should not be 
based  on  how  much  a  State  party  contributes  to  the 
Court,  since  the  Court  is  an  independent  judicial 
institution. It is worth noting that all the situations that 
the  Prosecutor  is  now  handling  are  situated  in  the 
territories  of 
least  developed  countries.  It  must 
therefore be ensured that those countries are adequately 
represented  at  senior  levels  in  the  Court.  Justice  must 
not  only  be  done,  it  must  be  seen  to  be  done. 
Therefore,  the  ICC,  being  at  the  peak  of  criminal 
justice  globally,  should  be  seen  to  be  fair,  not  only  in 
its decisions, but also in its recruitment policies. 

to 
cooperate  and  support  the  ICC  and  call  on  all  States 
parties 
for 
appointment  to  the  bench  and  other  positions  of  the 
Court,  which  would  enhance  the  efficiency  of  the 
Court.  The  Court  must  remain  independent  and  free 
from  any  kind  of  political  interference,  so  that  its 
decisions can in turn be universally respected. 

we  wish 
Mr.  Charles  (Trinidad  and Tobago):  First  of  all, 
those 
The  African  States  parties  will  continue 
identify  well-qualified  personnel 
to  express  our  appreciation 
to 
to 
10-61026 

15 

A/65/PV.39 

delegations  that  offered  words  of  condolence  on  the 
death  of  the  Prime  Minister  of  Barbados  and  join 
others  in  expressing  our  own  condolences  to  the 
delegation  of  Argentina  on  the  death  of  its  former 
President. 

I have the honour of speaking today on behalf of 
the  States  members  of  the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM) that are parties to the Rome Statute of the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC).  We  commend  the 
President  of  the  Court  for  the  presentation  of  his 
comprehensive  report  prepared  under  article  6  of  the 
Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United  Nations 
and the ICC (see A/65/313). CARICOM States parties 
view  the  report  as  an  important  instrument  to  convey 
essential  information  on  the  activities  of  the  Court 
during  the  preceding  year,  not  only  for  the  benefit  of 
States  parties,  but  also  for  the  benefit  of  the  wider 
membership of the United Nations. 

During  the  reporting  period,  States  parties  and 
others witnessed the hosting in Kampala of the Review 
Conference  of  the  Rome  Statute,  a  landmark  occasion 
that was eagerly anticipated. It provided an opportunity 
for  States  parties  and  other  entities  to  recommit 
themselves  to  the  principles  that  led  to  the  adoption 
and  conclusion  of 
the 
establishment of the Court. 

CARICOM States parties were represented at the 
Conference  both  at  the  level  of  States  parties  and 
signatory  States 
the  CARICOM 
secretariat.  Our  representation  was  a  demonstration  of 
our  resolve  to  assist  the  Court  in  its  mandate  to 
prosecute  those  alleged  to  have  committed  grave 
crimes under the Rome Statute and to contribute to the 
promotion and maintenance of international peace and 
justice. 

The Conference also provided an ideal forum for 
engaging  in  an  exercise  of  stocktaking  with  regard  to 
international criminal justice. We found the exchanges 
on  the  issue  of  cooperation  to  be  very  useful.  For  us, 
the  principle  of  cooperation  is  essential  to  the  long-
term  success  and  survival  of  the  Court.  Without  the 
cooperation of States parties and others in areas such as 
witness protection, enforcement of sentences, and most 
importantly, 
the  execution  of  outstanding  arrest 
warrants,  the  Court  will  be  unable  to  bring  to  justice 
the  principal  offenders  who  commit  genocide,  war 
crimes and crimes against humanity. CARICOM States 
parties  were  thus  encouraged  that  among  the  many 
the  Rome  Statute  and 
through 
and 
the 
international 
levels,  we  welcomed 
pledges  made  at  the  Conference  were  the  expressions 
of  the  willingness  of  States  and  others  to  cooperate 
with  the  Court.  We  hope  that  those  pledges  will  be 
fulfilled as soon as possible. 

Pursuant to the provisions of articles 121 and 123 
of the Statute, the Conference considered proposals for 
amendments  submitted  by  States  parties.  It  was 
gratifying to witness the exchange of views in both the 
plenary and the informal sessions of the Conference on 
the  various  proposals.  CARICOM  States  parties  and 
observers were satisfied with the open and transparent 
manner in which the consultations were conducted. As 
strong supporters of the rule of law at both the national 
and 
the 
amendment  to  article  8,  paragraph  2(e),  of  the  Rome 
Statute.  It  is  our  view  that  that  amendment  has 
strengthened  existing  international  humanitarian  law, 
and  we  therefore  pay  tribute  to  the  delegation  of 
Belgium for proposing that very timely amendment. 
Since  the  beginnings  of  the  discussions  on  the 

ICC,  CARICOM  has  been  encouraged  by 
the 
willingness  of  participants  to  work  in  a  spirit  of 
compromise.  Consequently,  while  we  were  among  the 
advocates for the removal of article 124 of the Statute, 
we  recognized  that  the  decision  on  that  topic  was 
reached  after  tremendous  debate  and  in  a  spirit  of 
compromise.  Nevertheless,  it  is  our  expectation  that, 
when the matter is reviewed in 2015, States parties will 
recognize 
that  provision  as  being  anachronistic, 
tantamount to a reservation, and will therefore agree to 
its deletion. 

In  1998  at  the  Rome  Diplomatic  Conference  on 
the  ICC,  States  parties  agreed  to  include  the  crime  of 
aggression  under  article  5  of  the  Statute  but  did  not 
agree  on  a  definition  of  the  crime  and  the  conditions 
under  which  the  Court  would  be  able  to  exercise 
jurisdiction  of  that  crime.  The  matter  was  left  to  a 
future  event.  That  event  was  the  Kampala  Review 
Conference,  which  ended  a  process  that  included  the 
work  of  the  Special  Working  Group  on  the  Crime  of 
Aggression,  the  intersessional  meetings  at  Princeton 
University as well as other forums. 

After  exhaustive  discussions  spanning  many 
years  on  the  utility,  practicality  or  timing  of  the 
adoption  of  a  definition  of  the  crime  of  aggression,  a 
breakthrough was achieved at the Review Conference. 
While  some  delegations  remain  dissatisfied  with  the 
outcome and ask whether we have arrived at a less than 
16 

10-61026 
now 
the  crime  of  aggression  pursuant 


perfect solution, CARICOM States parties are satisfied 
that the Rome Statute has been duly amended through 
the  relevant  provisions  of  articles  8  bis,  15  bis,  and 
15 ter.  More  importantly,  article  5,  paragraph  2,  has 
been  deleted  forever.  The  Statute  now  provides  a 
definition of the crime of aggression and for State party 
referral,  proprio  motu  investigation  by  the  Prosecutor, 
as  well  as  Security  Council  referral.  In  our  view,  that 
represents a true spirit of compromise and a reflection 
of  the  mood  of  the  international  community  at  this 
time. 

The success achieved in Uganda was due not only 
to the willingness of States parties to compromise, but 
also  to  the  skill  employed  by  the  President  of  the 
Assembly  of  States  parties,  Ambassador  Christian 
Wenaweser, and his team,  which included Prince Zeid 
Ra’ad  Zeid  Al-Hussein, 
the  Permanent 
Representative to the United Nations of the Hashemite 
Kingdom  of  Jordan. We,  as  CARICOM  States  parties, 
await  the  convening  in  2017  of  the  meeting  at  which 
States parties, following the prescribed procedure, will 
decide whether to activate the jurisdiction of the Court 
over 
the 
the  Review 
amendment 
Conference. 

The Court is at a critical point in its short life. We 
continue to observe the judicial proceedings, which are 
being conducted in keeping with the highest traditions 
of  due  process,  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  Rome 
Statute and other rules. We must continue to offer our 
support  and  protection  to  the  ICC.  Such  protection  is 
essential  to  ward  off  often  unnecessary  criticisms  on 
the part of its detractors. That support should not only 
be  based  on  our  legal  obligations  but  should  also  be 
derived  from  the  commitment  by  all  United  Nations 
Member States to end impunity. 

CARICOM  States  parties  will  continue  to  work 
for  the  universalization  of  the  Rome  Statute.  During 
the past year we were elated that a Member State, Saint 
Lucia, became the latest CARICOM State party to the 
Rome Statute. 

It  is  our  expectation  that  all  CARICOM  States 
will,  in  the  near  future,  become  parties  to  the  Rome 
Statute  and  complete  this  most  important  dream  that 
was  begun  in  1989  by  my  former  Prime  Minister, 
Mr. Arthur Napoleon Robinson. 
Mr. McNee (Canada): I have the honour to speak 

today  on  behalf  of  the  CANZ  group,  namely,  Canada, 
that  was  adopted  at 
to 
A/65/PV.39
on 
the 
topics 
of 
and 
improving 
the  Court 
Australia  and  New  Zealand.  Before  speaking  on  the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC),  may  I  offer  the 
condolences of that group on the sad passing of former 
President Kirchner to the Government of Argentina. 
The year 2010 has been a significant one for the 

this  year, 
International  Criminal  Court.  Earlier 
delegations 
from  States  parties,  observer  States, 
international organizations and civil society, as well as 
officials  from  other  international  courts  and  tribunals, 
met in Kampala for the first Review Conference of the 
Rome  Statute.  The  delegations  participated 
in  a 
stocktaking event that gathered the world’s experts on 
international  criminal  justice  for  a  frank  and  sincere 
discussion 
cooperation, 
complementarity,  victims  and  affected  communities, 
and peace and justice. We hope to see appropriate and 
continued  follow up  on those themes over the coming 
years. 

States  parties  at  the  Review  Conference  also 
worked  in  a  spirit  of  compromise  with  the  aim  of 
strengthening 
the 
international criminal justice system. They adopted, by 
consensus,  amendments  to  article  8  of  the  Statute,  as 
well  as  provisions  on  the  crime  of  aggression.  The 
adoption  of  the  provisions  on  the  crime  of  aggression 
marked  the  culmination  of  years  of  discussion  and 
reflects 
to 
operationalize  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  in  a  practical 
and balanced manner. 

States  parties  at  the  Review  Conference  also 
endorsed  the  Kampala  Declaration,  reaffirming  their 
commitment to the basic principles of the Rome Statute 
and  the  role  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  in  a 
multilateral system that aims to end impunity, establish 
the  rule  of  law,  promote  and  encourage  respect  for 
human rights and achieve sustainable peace. 
(spoke in French) 
It  has  become  trite  to  say  that  the  Court  cannot 

the 
effectively  accomplish 
necessary  cooperation  from  States  parties  and  others. 
This past year has witnessed both accomplishments and 
challenges in the sphere of cooperation. 

Just weeks ago, authorities in France successfully 
apprehended  Callixte  Mbarushimana,  pursuant  to  a 
sealed  warrant  of  arrest  issued  by  the  Court.  Canada, 
Australia  and  New  Zealand  welcome  that  arrest  and 
commend France for the actions that it has undertaken. 
the  strong  desire  of  States  parties 
its  mandate  without 
10-61026 

17 

In 
A/65/PV.39 

We  further  welcome  the  cooperation  shown  in  that 
arrest  by  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and 
other States in the region as a concrete example of their 
commitment to justice. 
(spoke in English) 

The  situation  in  the  eastern  provinces  of  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  is  alarming.  The 
use of sexual violence as a weapon of war and as a tool 
in  the  systematic  intimidation  and  control  of  local 
populations  must  be  stopped.  Canada,  Australia  and 
New Zealand call upon all parties involved to take the 
necessary  steps  to  prevent  the  commission  of  such 
crimes  and  to  protect  civilian  populations.  Ensuring 
criminal accountability for the perpetrators is a crucial 
element  in  stopping  those  crimes.  Those  who  are 
responsible  must  be  brought  to  justice,  and  that 
includes  not  only  direct  perpetrators,  but  also  those 
who are responsible for planning and coordinating such 
reprehensible attacks. 

that  regard,  Canada,  Australia  and  New 
Zealand  are  also  encouraged  by  the  arrest  of  Sadoke 
Kokunda  Mayele  by  United  Nations  and  Congolese 
forces and urge the Democratic Republic of the Congo 
to continue, and to  enhance, its cooperation with  both 
the United Nations and the Court. Where necessary, the 
ICC  can  play  a  vital  role 
investigating  and 
prosecuting  those  who  bear  the  greatest  responsibility 
for the commission of serious crimes. We also urge the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo to pursue domestic 
avenues  of  investigation  and  prosecution  for  other 
perpetrators. 

We hold  out  hope that such recent developments 
may prove to be a basis for complementarity in action, 
with  a  coordinated  response  between  the  ICC,  the 
United  Nations,  national  authorities,  regional  actors 
and  the  international  community  as  whole.  It  has 
become  clear  that  all  of  those  entities  must  work 
together to ensure accountability and to bring justice to 
victims. 

While  the  recent  arrests  in  relation  to  crimes 
committed  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo 
are  encouraging,  we  must  also  acknowledge  that 
cooperation has been lacking in relation to other cases 
and situations. The arrest  warrant  for Bosco Ntaganda 
remains outstanding, as do the four arrest warrants for 
the leaders of the Lord’s Resistance Army. 
in 
The  early 
jurisprudence  of 

With regard to the arrest warrants that have been 
issued  in  the  Darfur  situation,  namely,  for  Ahmad 
Harun, Ali Kushayb and President Omar Al-Bashir, we 
continue to call upon States parties to fulfil their legal 
obligations  under  the  Rome  Statute  to  cooperate  with 
the  Court  in  the  execution  of  those  warrants.  Canada, 
Australia and New Zealand also note the obligation to 
cooperate  with  the  Court  under  Security  Council 
resolution  1593  (2005)  and  urge,  more  broadly,  all 
States and relevant regional organizations to cooperate 
fully with the Court. 

the  Court  has 
demonstrated  that  the  rights  of  the  accused  are  being 
protected  at  both  the  procedural  and  the  substantive 
levels. The legitimate place to contest charges is before 
the Court itself, and not in the political arena. 

Looking  forward,  Canada,  Australia  and  New 
Zealand  anticipate  that  the  upcoming  ninth  Assembly 
of  States  Parties  will  be  a  fruitful  meeting.  We 
anticipate  further  discussions  on  the  administrative 
issues  of  budget  and  governance.  In  that  respect,  we 
underline  the  important  role  of  the  Assembly  in 
providing  oversight  and  guidance  on  those  matters  as 
prescribed  by  the  Rome  Statute.  The  Court  and  the 
to  work 
Assembly  must 
together 
continue 
to  establishing  and 
constructively  with  a  view 
maintaining 
framework 
of 
permanent, 
the  respect  and 
independent 
confidence of the international community. 
Mr.  Park  In-Kook  (Republic  of  Korea):  At  the 

outset, I should like to express our special recognition 
to President Judge Sang-Hyun Song and the other staff 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  for  their 
outstanding  efforts  and  achievements  in  making  the 
Court  function  on  a  broad  track.  Through  their  work 
and  dedication, 
the  ICC  has  made  a  significant 
contribution  to  the  attainment  of  the  goals  envisioned 
in the Rome Statute. The Republic of Korea welcomes 
the four new members and hopes that the new members 
will help to promote the universality of the Court  and 
the integrity of the Rome Statute. 

I should like to commend the Secretary-General’s 
report  (see  A/65/313),  which  highlights  the  Court’s 
most  important  work  over  the  past  year. Thus  far,  the 
Court  has  made  notable  achievements  through  its 
involvement in five situations, namely, in Uganda, the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, the Central African 
Republic, Kenya and the Sudan. 
the 
institution 
a 
that  has 
18 

10-61026 



This year, we witnessed another historic moment 
with  the  Review  Conference  in  Kampala,  where  we 
successfully amended several provisions and discussed 
key  issues  for  future  implementation.  The  success  of 
the Review Conference is proof that the ICC has left its 
fledgling stage and is now entering an era of full-scale 
development. 
I would like to take this opportunity to welcome 

the  new 
judges,  Silvia  Alejandra  Fernández  de 
Gurmendi  and  Kuniko  Ozaki.  We  believe  that  the 
newly  appointed 
judges  will  make  a  remarkable 
contribution, building on the progress made to date. 

I  would  like  to  comment  on  the  proceedings 
regarding  the  situation  in  the  Congo.  Since  the  first 
ICC arrest warrant was issued and sealed by Pre Trial 
Chamber I in early spring 2006, the Lubanga trial has 
experienced  several  short  suspensions.  I  hope  that, 
based on the assessments made so far, the ICC will be 
able to proceed with Lubanga and other cases, and thus 
move  forward  effectively  with  the  deliberate  speed  of 
international criminal justice. 

I would like to cite another case, that relating to 
the situation in Darfur, where international cooperation 
is  still  needed,  despite  Security  Council  resolution 
1593  (2005)  and  legal  obligations  under  the  Rome 
Statute.  In  that  context,  I  would  like  to  draw  the 
Assembly’s  attention  to  the  importance  of  gathering 
political will in order to further the work of the ICC. 

I  would  also  like  to  commend  the  ICC  for 
providing  substantial  assistance  to  the  Special  Court 
for Sierra Leone from its inception up until today. That 
shows  that  the  ICC  may  be  on  its  way  to  becoming  a 
central hub for international tribunals in the future. For 
that  purpose,  further  communication  and  coordination 
between 
is 
required. 
Beyond  all  scepticism  and  frustration,  the  ICC 

was  established 
the 
international  community  for  justice.  We  are  very 
pleased by the progress the Court has arduously made 
towards that goal. The Republic of Korea will continue 
to  be  a  strong  supporter  of  the  ICC  as  it  solidifies  its 
place as an important international mechanism and the 
sole permanent criminal court. 
Mr. Sumi (Japan): I would like to thank Mr. Sang-

Hyun  Song  for  his  in  depth  report  on  the  most  recent 
work  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  (see 
the  Special  Tribunals 
the  Court  and 
the  hopes  of 
to  enshrine 
A/65/PV.39
initiated 
addition, 
the  Congo  and 
the  Prosecutor  has 
A/65/313),  as  well  as  to  congratulate  the  Court  on  its 
increasingly important role in the fight against impunity 
in the international community. 

The  ICC  was  established  in  2002  as  the  first 
permanent international criminal court in the history of 
the  world,  to  which  any  State  party  or  the  Security 
Council  could  decide  to  refer  a  situation.  Since  the 
establishment  of  the  Court,  eight  years  ago,  three 
States  parties  —  namely,  Uganda,  the  Democratic 
Republic  of 
the  Central  African 
Republic — have referred their respective situations to 
the  ICC.  The  Security  Council  has  referred  one 
situation — that of Darfur, the Sudan — to the Court. 
In 
an 
investigation  on  the  Kenyan  situation.  That  progress 
shows that the ICC is on a path of growth. Today, we 
would  like  to  raise  several  points  on  the  work  of  the 
ICC. 

First,  one  of  the  most  important  principles  to  be 
kept  in  mind  is  that  of  complementarity.  Every  State 
has  a  duty  to  exercise  its  criminal  jurisdiction  over 
those responsible for the most serious crimes. The role 
of the ICC is complementary to such national criminal 
jurisdictions.  States  parties  must  do  their  best  to 
exercise  their  national  jurisdiction  over  a  situation 
before referring it to the ICC. 

Secondly,  the  experience  of  the  ICC,  although 
relatively  short,  has  reaffirmed  the  importance  of 
cooperation  by  States.  In  those  cases  in  which  full 
cooperation has been extended by the States concerned, 
the  ICC  is  making  steady  progress.  Where  such 
cooperation has not been forthcoming, the ICC is faced 
with serious challenges. Cooperation by States with the 
ICC is therefore essential for the effective investigation 
and prosecution of cases by the Court, in particular as 
regards  the  arrest  and  surrender  of  suspects  and  the 
collection of evidence. 

Thirdly,  Japan  would  like  to  emphasize  the 
importance of efficient and effective administration of 
the  Court.  In  that  regard,  Japan  is  of  the  view  that 
States parties should seek to clarify the responsibilities 
of the different organs of the Court and the relationship 
between the Court and the Assembly of States Parties, 
as well as the judicial procedure of the Court. 

indeed  a  matter  of  historic 
significance  that  we  achieved  the  codification  of  the 
crime  of  aggression  at  the  Rome  Statute  Review 
Conference,  held  in  Kampala  this  year.  In  order  to 
Fourthly, 
it 
is 
10-61026 

19 

A/65/PV.39 

make that success legally stable, we must continue our 
efforts to avoid, to the maximum extent possible, legal 
ambiguity  in  the  amendments  adopted,  taking  into 
account  the  nature  of  international  criminal  justice, 
which requires strict legal rigour. 

Finally,  let  me  return  to  the  matter  of  the 
universality of the membership of the Rome Statute. As 
a  result  of  the  recent  ratifications  by  Saint  Lucia, 
Seychelles  and  Moldova,  114  States  are  currently 
parties to the Rome Statute. Japan is pleased to see the 
steady increase in the number of States parties. In order 
to  enhance  the  role  of  the  ICC  in  the  international 
community,  however,  the  Court’s  membership  should 
be universal. It is therefore important that more States 
become parties to the Rome Statue, especially States in 
the Asian region, where the number of States parties is 
much lower than in other regions. 

In March 2010, Japan co sponsored a round-table 
meeting  of  legal  experts  with  the  Government  of 
Malaysia  and  the  Asian-African  Legal  Consultative 
Organization  in  Putrajaya,  Malaysia,  that  included  an 
inaugural  address  by  Judge  Kuniko  Ozaki.  At  that 
meeting,  the  Republic  of  Korea,  Kenya  and  Japan 
shared  with  non-party  States  their  experiences  in 
ratifying  the  Rome  Statute.  Japan  will  continue  its 
efforts  to  increase  the  number  of  States  parties,  in 
particular  from  the  Asian  region,  with  a  view  to 
achieving the universality of the ICC. 

Japan sincerely hopes that the points it has raised 
today  will  be  given  serious  consideration  by  the  ICC, 
States parties, other States and civil society in order to 
foster an ICC that is more efficient, effective, universal 
and systematically sustainable. 

the  sincere 
appreciation  of  Japan  for  the  work  that  the  ICC  has 
accomplished to date. It is our hope that the Court will 
continue 
the  fight  against 
impunity and consolidate its credibility and reputation. 
In  that  regard,  Japan  is  determined  to  continue  and 
strengthen  its  contribution  to  the  ICC,  and  thereby  to 
the  establishment  of  the  rule  of  law  throughout  the 
international community. 
Ms. Gendi (Egypt): At the outset, I would like to 

express  Egypt’s  appreciation  to  the  President  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  for  submitting  the 
report  under  consideration  today  (see  A/65/313).  I 
would  also  like  to  thank  the  Court  for  playing  an 
important  role  in  the  development  of  international 
to  work  diligently 
let  me  express 
In  conclusion, 
in 
criminal  law  concepts  to  address  heinous  crimes 
committed against peoples and societies. 

International  criminal  tribunals  are  becoming 
increasingly important in the enforcement of the rule of 
law  —  in  particular  with  regard  to  international  law, 
international  humanitarian  law  and  human  rights  law 
— with a view to maintaining international peace and 
security. The role of the ICC should be complementary 
to  that  of  national  judiciaries,  which  have  inherent 
jurisdiction  to  prosecute  citizens  who  commit  such 
crimes.  That  emanates  from  the  principle  of  the 
responsibility  of  a  State  to  ensure  the  safety  and 
security of its citizens. It also flows from the fact that 
sovereignty  equals  responsibility  —  the  responsibility 
of every nation and Government to protect their people 
from crimes. 

Against  that  backdrop,  Egypt  is  of  the  view  that 
there is an increasing need to adhere to the established 
norm of international law by which the implementation 
of  a  convention  is  conditioned  by  a  State’s  accession 
thereto.  States  should  therefore  not  be  obligated  to 
follow the provisions of the Rome Statute if they have 
not of their own free will explicitly accepted to do so. 
Obliging States to act otherwise constitutes a violation 
of 
is 
incompatible with the concept of State sovereignty and 
the  freedom  of  States  to  choose  the  treaties  to  which 
they become party. 

In  the  same  vein,  the  delegation  of  Egypt  takes 
note of the outcomes of the Review Conference of the 
Rome  Statute,  convened  from  31  May  to  11  June  in 
Kampala,  at  which  States  parties  made  significant 
pledges on a wide range of issues. One of those was to 
arrive at a definition of the crime of aggression, taking 
into account the importance of the issue, especially as 
circumstances  and  developments  on  the  international 
scene  point  to  the  need  to  establish  such  a  definition. 
That  will  enable  the  Court  to  exercise  its  jurisdiction 
over  that  crime  in  the  same  way  that  it  does  over  the 
other crimes falling within its jurisdiction. 

The  Court  can  also  benefit  from  the  ongoing 
discussions  in  the  International  Law  Commission  on 
the  immunity  of  State  officials  from  foreign  criminal 
jurisdiction, with a view to enriching the dialogue and 
exchange  of  views  between  international  legal  and 
framework  of 
judicial  bodies  working 
multilateralism.  That 
to  enhance 
the  principle  of  pacta  sunt  servanda  and 
in 
should 
the 
serve 
20 

10-61026 
as 
to 
ensure 
transparency 
The  delegation  of  Egypt  also  stresses 


conformity  and  complementarity  in  the  work  of  those 
bodies. 

the 
importance  of 
the  International  Criminal  Court’s 
continued pursuit of a balanced approach in its work by 
adopting  a  policy  that  accentuates  its  judicial  nature 
and  avoids  the  politicization  of  its  work,  so  as  to 
ensure its impartiality and independence and to allow it 
to meet its legal and moral obligations. 

In that regard, Egypt reaffirms the importance of 
the Court remaining strictly transparent. It should also 
refrain  from  recourse  to  confidential  lists  of  names  of 
accused, 
so 
and 
accountability. 
Furthermore,  the  procedures  for  investigating, 

gathering evidence and authenticating documents need 
to be improved, especially with regard to investigating 
crimes  and  providing  strong  material  evidence  that 
confirms the consistency of the crimes committed and 
those defined in the Statute. It is of similar importance 
not  to  proceed  with  the  legal  classification  of  facts 
based on incomplete or partial examinations thereof, or 
on  examinations 
legal 
considerations into account. 

Consequently,  the  delegation  of  Egypt  reiterates 
that  the  Court  should  respect  the  considerations  to 
which  I  have  referred  when  dealing  with  the  African 
cases  referred  to  it.  Moreover,  it  is  important  that  the 
Court  consider  cases  from  other  parts  of  the  world. 
Otherwise, 
the  continued  consideration  of  cases 
focused on only one region of the world may give the 
wrong 
that  crimes  against 
humanity  are  being  committed  only  in  Africa  or  that 
the  Court  does  not  target  other  regions  where  those 
crimes are also being committed. 

In that context, Egypt expresses its concern over 
the consequences of the indictment by the International 
Criminal Court of the President of the Republic of the 
Sudan, taking into consideration the delicate nature of 
the  peace  processes  under  way  in  the  Sudan  and  the 
ongoing  efforts  aimed  at 
the  early 
resolution of the conflict in Darfur. We also support the 
call  by  the African  Union  on  the  Security  Council  to 
defer  the  process  initiated  by  the  ICC  in  accordance 
with the provisions of Article 16 of the Rome Statute. 

In  order  to  avoid  being  selective  in  referring 
cases  to  the  ICC,  it  is  imperative  that  the  Security 
impression,  namely, 
that  do  not 
facilitating 
take  all 
the 
A/65/PV.39
Council not politicize its work. It is also necessary that 
the  Prosecutor  expedite  the  decision  to  begin  an 
investigation of the crimes against humanity committed 
in the occupied Palestinian territories. We reaffirm the 
responsibility of the international community to follow 
up  the  recommendations  of  the  report  (A/HRC/12/48) 
of  the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the 
Gaza  Conflict,  as  recommended  by 
the  General 
Assembly  in  resolutions  64/10,  of  5  November  2009, 
and  64/254,  of  26  February  2010.  In  that  regard,  the 
Court  should  ensure  that  no  one  enjoys  impunity.  It 
should  also  uphold  the  letter  of  the  law  and  the 
established legal norms that we all strive to implement, 
as well as consolidate the application of the rule of law 
to all peoples and communities without exception. 
Mr. Wenaweser  (Liechtenstein):  I  would  like  to 

thank the President of the International Criminal Court 
(ICC),  Judge  Sang  Hyun  Song,  for  presenting  the 
report  of  the  Court  (see  A/65/313)  today,  which 
illustrates  the  impressive  range  of  activities  in  which 
the Court has been engaged over the past year. We are 
satisfied  to  see  yet  again  that  the  Court  has  made 
further progress in its proceedings and that it continues 
to work in the manner in which it was conceived that it 
would,  namely,  as  an 
independent  and  effective 
international  court  committed  to  the  highest  standards 
of justice and working within its jurisdiction and on the 
basis of the principle of complementarity. 
As  a  State  party  to  the  Rome  Statute,  we  fully 

respect 
the  Court  and  will 
therefore not comment on the specifics of cases before 
it. 

States  parties  have  also  strengthened  the  Rome 
Statute system through the successful conclusion of the 
Review Conference in Kampala in June. 

In the area of universality, which must remain our 
long-term goal, we were particularly pleased about the 
ratifications  of  Bangladesh,  Seychelles,  Saint  Lucia 
and  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  which  increased  the 
number of States parties to 114. 

the  Review 
Conference  is  a  milestone  in  the  development  of 
international  criminal  justice.  States  parties  were  able 
to  complete  the  work  left  unfinished  by  the  United 
Nations Diplomatic Conference of Plenipotentiaries on 
the  Establishment  of  an  International  Criminal  Court 
by  adopting 
the  crime  of 
aggression.  I  would  like  to  thank  all  the  negotiating 
successful  outcome  of 
the  amendments  on 
independence  of 
The 
the 
10-61026 

21 

A/65/PV.39 

partners  for  their  constructive  engagement  on  this 
difficult  issue,  which  allowed  us  to  adopt  both  the 
definition of the crime of aggression and the conditions 
for  the  exercise  of  jurisdiction,  and  to  do  so  by 
consensus.  This  is  truly  a  historic  achievement  that 
strengthens  the  rule  of  law  at  the  international  level 
and goes to the core of the purpose of the Organization. 
In  that  context,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  unwavering  personal  commitment  to 
the International Criminal Court. 

The  Government  of  Liechtenstein  has  already 
taken a decision in principle to ratify the amendments 
on  the  crime  of  aggression  as  soon  as  possible.  We 
hope  that  many  other  States  parties  will  do  the  same. 
We were also encouraged by the strong participation of 
non-States  parties  in  the  proceedings  of  the  Kampala 
Conference.  We  hope  that  some  of  them  will  find  the 
completion of the Rome Statute useful on their way to 
joining  it.  In  Kampala,  we  as  States  parties  kept  the 
promise  made  in  Rome  that  we  would  complete  the 
Statute at the first Review Conference. 

When we adopted the Statute, in 1998,  we knew 
that  the  crimes  to  be  dealt  with  by  the  Court  — 
genocide,  crimes  against  humanity,  war  crimes  and, 
indeed,  the  crime  of  aggression  —  were  inextricably 
linked  to  situations  of  armed  or  political  conflict,  and 
would thus give rise to controversial and strongly held 
views  by  all  those  affected.  Indeed,  the  expanding 
activities of the Court have evoked both strong support 
and adverse reactions by stakeholders involved. This is 
an  illustration  of  the  relevance  of  the  activities  of  the 
Court and should not be seen as a distraction from the 
significant  underlying  consensus  in  the  international 
community  —  whether  States  have  already  decided  to 
join  the  Rome  Statute  or  not  —  that  there  can  be  no 
impunity for the worst crimes of international concern. 
As  our  discussions  in  Kampala  on  peace  and  justice 
have shown, we all stand by this principle, while it can 
be difficult to apply in practice. 
The Review Conference has set in motion highly 

productive  discussions  on  how  we  can  do  better  in 
implementing  that  principle,  and  has  culminated  in 
concrete 
the 
Kampala Declaration and individual pledges. The area 
of complementarity is where we hope that the greatest 
progress can be made in the near future. States parties 
have 
to 
prosecute  perpetrators  of  genocide,  crimes  against 
humanity and war crimes. National jurisdictions are at 
commitments  undertaken 
responsibility 
through 
reaffirmed 
their  primary 
22 

its  domestic 
the  heart  of  the  fight  against  impunity. The  Court  has 
already had an important catalytic function that has led 
to the strengthening of national jurisdictions. We note, 
for example, the intention of the Democratic Republic 
of  the  Congo  to  try  the  recently  arrested  militia 
commander Mayele and other suspected war criminals 
in 
judicial  system.  Indeed,  genuine 
domestic  proceedings  are  not  only  an  obligation 
stemming from the Geneva Conventions, they are also 
the preferred option under the Rome Statute. 

The  multitude  of  United  Nations  actors  and 
others  engaged  in  rule  of  law  capacity-building  and 
technical  assistance  play  a  very  important  role  in  that 
respect.  Those  efforts  must  be  strengthened  and  their 
coordination must be improved, under the leadership of 
the  Rule  of  Law  Coordination  and  Resource  Group. 
Again,  it  is  important  to  stress  that  States  are  obliged 
under  treaty  law  and  customary  international  law  to 
domestically  prosecute  genocide,  crimes  against 
humanity and war crimes, irrespective of whether they 
are  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  or  not.  Improving 
technical  assistance  in  that  respect  is  thus  a  necessity 
that  should  be  seen  independently  from  the  daily 
business of the Court. Indeed, it goes to the very heart 
of the mandate of the United Nations itself. 

Cooperation  is  another  area  where  progress  can 
and must be made. The Court’s effectiveness is wholly 
dependent  on  the  cooperation  of  States,  international 
organizations  and  civil  society.  We  welcome  the 
continued cooperation extended by States, in particular 
with regard to the situation in the Democratic Republic 
of the Congo, as recently underscored by the arrest of 
Callixte Mbarushimana in France. 

At the same time, there is concern about the lack 
of  support  for  the  Court’s  activities  in  a  number  of 
other  situations,  most  prominently  the  investigation 
mandated  by  the  Security  Council  regarding  Darfur. 
That  lack  of  cooperation  poses  a  challenge  to  the 
authority  of  the  Security  Council  and  also  puts  into 
question  the  legal  obligations  underwritten  by  States 
parties to the Rome Statute. We note in particular that 
no  State  party  can  be  relieved  of  those  obligations  by 
virtue  of  a  competing  obligation  outside  of  the  Rome 
Statute.  We  therefore  hope  that  States  parties  will 
engage  in  a  constructive  dialogue  on  how  to  improve 
cooperation  across  the  board,  including  in  situations 
where  such  cooperation  entails  difficult  political 
decisions. It is also our hope that the Security Council 
will  live  up  to  its  obligation  to  consider  the  issue  of 
10-61026 
the  outset, 


cooperation  in  the  one  case  where  it  has  deferred  a 
situation to the Court. 

The Court continues to stand as a beacon of hope 
for victims of mass atrocities around the world. We are 
pleased  that  the  paradigm  shift  reflected  in  the  Rome 
Statute 
towards  a  more  victim-centred  approach 
continues  to  be  put  into  practice  by  the  Court.  In  that 
context,  Liechtenstein  places  particular  importance  on 
the  activities  of  the  Trust  Fund  for  Victims  and  has 
pledged to continue its financial support for it. 
Mr.  Appreku  (Ghana):  I  wish  to  thank  you, 

Madame,  for  giving  me  the  floor  to  deliver  the 
statement of the Ghana delegation on agenda item 73, 
with regard to the report of the  International Criminal 
Court  (see  A/65/313).  At 
the  Ghana 
delegation  wishes  to  align  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Zambia 
on behalf of the African group of States parties to the 
Rome  Statute.  We  would  also  like  to  make  a  few 
additional comments in our national capacity. 
My  delegation  welcomes  the  sixth  annual  report 

of 
the  International  Criminal  Court.  The  Ghana 
delegation  wishes  to  commend  the  President  of  the 
Court, His Excellency Judge Sang Hyun Song, for his 
remarkable presentation of the report of the Court. My 
delegation 
the 
presidency of Judge Song, the Court continues to make 
significant  progress  in  fulfilling  the  aspirations  of  the 
framers  of  the  Rome  Statute  to  promote  international 
criminal  justice  in  order  to  ensure  accountability  and 
end  impunity  in  respect  of  grave  crimes  of  the  most 
serious  concern  to  the  international  community,  in 
particular  genocide,  war  crimes,  crimes  against 
humanity and acts of aggression. 
The first Review Conference of the Rome Statute 

of  the  International  Criminal  Court,  held  in  Kampala 
from 31 May to 11 June, has been hailed as a historic 
event,  as  it  provided  an  opportunity  to  introduce 
amendments to the Rome Statute to include a definition 
of  the  crime  of  aggression  and  the  conditions  under 
which  the  Court  could  exercise  jurisdiction  with 
respect  to  that  crime.  My  delegation  applauds  the 
Secretary-General  for  ably  discharging  his  mandate, 
conferred under the Rome Statute, to convene the first 
Review  Conference.  We  also  commend  all  concerned 
who  contributed  to  the  success  of  the  Conference, 
notably  Ambassador  Christian  Wenaweser 
of 
Liechtenstein, who is the President of the Assembly of 
is  gratified 
that  under 
learn 
to 
A/65/PV.39
the 
countless 
States Parties, and Ambassador Prince Zeid Ra’ad Zeid 
Al-Hussein of Jordan, who chaired the special working 
the  crime  of  aggression.  We  also 
group  on 
acknowledge 
non-governmental 
organizations  and  civil  society  groups  that  played  an 
important role in mobilizing the participation of people 
to show interest in the Review Conference. 

The  Kampala  Review  Conference  offered  States 
parties  and  non-States  parties  alike  a  rare  moment  to 
take  stock  of  the  Rome  Statute  system  since  the 
holding of the Rome Conference. The challenge ahead 
is  to  address  in  a  dispassionate  manner  some  of  the 
lingering  issues  arising  from  Kampala  and  to  ensure 
that there is a common and better understanding of the 
amendment that was agreed to in Kampala in respect to 
the  crime  of  aggression,  including  the  role  of  the 
Security  Council  in  the  determination  of  an  act  of 
aggression,  in  the  absence  of  which  a  charge  of  the 
crime  of  aggression  might  be  difficult  to  sustain.  The 
forthcoming  session  of  the Assembly  of  States  Parties 
in  New  York  should  provide  another  platform  to 
continue the dialogue with a view to further clarifying 
the amendment adopted in Kampala. 

Ghana  supports  the  need  for  further  improving 
the interaction and relationship between the Court and 
the Assembly of States Parties, with due regard for the 
principle of judicial independence and impartiality. The 
principle  of  complementarity,  which  underpins  the 
Rome  Statute,  means  that  the  need  for  capacity-
building at the national level must be given top priority 
as  well.  While  perpetrators  of  serious  crimes  must  be 
brought  to  justice,  equal  attention  must  be  paid  to  the 
need to create conditions to address the root causes of 
conflicts, including enhancing the rule of law, with the 
ultimate aim of preventing violent conflicts that tend to 
foster the crimes the Rome Statute was meant to punish 
or deter. 
I wish to conclude by commending the Secretary-

General,  supported  by 
the  United  Nations  Legal 
Counsel,  for  his  continued  commitment  to  promoting 
cooperation between the Court and the United Nations 
and for upholding the principle that justice is essential 
to the maintenance of international peace and security, 
which 
sustainable 
development. 

We  are not  about to forget to acknowledge, with 
our deepest appreciation, the efforts of the Government 
and  people  of  Uganda 
the  Review 
turn  necessary 
in  hosting 
are 
in 
for 
10-61026 

23 

A/65/PV.39 

Conference  on  African  soil,  thus  underscoring  our 
continent’s  dedication  to  the  advancement  of  the  rule 
of  law,  justice  and  accountability. African  States  were 
instrumental in bringing the Rome Statute into force in 
significant numbers, and an African country has hosted 
the first Review Conference. 

Going  forward,  the  key  challenges  will  include 
the  promotion  of  the  universality  of  the  Rome  Statute 
and  effective  international  cooperation  to  strengthen 
the  fight  against  impunity,  which  ought  to  be  the 
collective  responsibility  of  all  peoples  and  States. 
Ghana  hopes  and  believes  that  the  outstanding  issues 
preventing  the  opening  of  an  International  Criminal 
Court  liaison  office  in  Addis  Ababa  and  greater 
cooperation  between  the  Court  and  the  continent  will 
be resolved sooner rather than later, to  enable African 
States to lead the effort towards the universality of the 
Rome  Statute,  as  was  envisaged  by  the  Assembly 
decades  ago  when  it  first  considered  the  idea  of 
establishing  a  permanent  international  criminal  court 
that  left  no  Member  State  behind  or  beyond  the  reach 
of justice and accountability. 
Mr.  Hernández  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Mexico  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
International Criminal Court, Judge Sang-Hyung Song, 
for  the  presentation  of  the  Court’s  sixth  annual  report 
(see A/65/313) to the General Assembly. 
We  welcome  the  recent  accession  of  four  States 

to 
the  Statute,  namely,  Bangladesh,  Saint  Lucia, 
Seychelles  and  the  Republic  of  Moldova.  There  are 
now 114 States parties to the Rome Statute, which is a 
clear indication of the Court’s universalization. 

The  year  2010  marks  an  important  step  for 
international  criminal  justice  and  for  the  system  built 
on  the  Rome  Statute. The  holding  of  the  first  Review 
Conference and its successful results are proof of this. 
The  adoption  by  consensus  of  amendments  to  the 
Statute,  particularly  those  related  to  the  crime  of 
aggression, is in itself a success that demonstrates both 
political  will  and  illustrates  the  responsible,  inclusive 
and  comprehensive  participation  of  delegations  at  the 
Conference. 
In Kampala, we had the opportunity to reflect on 

the  current 
that 
international criminal justice faces eight years after the 
entry  into  force  of  the  Rome  Statute.  Similarly,  we 
reaffirmed  our  commitment  to  the  Court  with  pledges 
aimed  primarily  at  guaranteeing  effective  cooperation. 
the  challenges 
situation  and 
It is now up to States parties to implement the Kampala 
outcomes,  thereby  strengthening  the  operation  and 
independence  of  the  Court  above  and  beyond  any 
political  considerations.  The  first  Review  Conference 
should be seen as the beginning of a permanent process 
of  evaluation  and  improvement  of  the  international 
criminal justice system that allows us to strengthen the 
Court’s work and the provisions of the Rome Statute. 

On  this  point  I  would  like  to  reiterate  my 
country’s  belief  that  the  Rome  Statute  will  not  be 
complete until the use of nuclear weapons is classified 
as a war crime. We will therefore continue to promote 
that  cause  in  the  working  group  to  be  established  by 
the Assembly of States Parties during its next session. 

Six years have passed since the establishment of 
the  judicial  system  provided  for  under  the  Rome 
Statute. In spite of the great efforts by the staff of the 
Court,  there  is  still  a  long  way  to  go.  Nine  arrest 
warrants still remain to be executed, and the challenges 
in the field are countless. We should not forget that the 
International Criminal Court will be able to exercise its 
mandate  only  if  it  can  rely  on  the  full  and  effective 
cooperation of the international community. 

My  delegation  believes  it  is  important  to  stress 
that  refusal  to  cooperate  with  the  Court  amounts  to  a 
clear  violation  of  international  obligations  under  the 
Rome Statute and, in certain circumstances, the Charter 
itself.  Non-cooperation 
tough 
measures  be  taken  by  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties 
and,  in  some  cases,  by  the  Security  Council.  In  that 
regard,  Mexico  considers 
to  develop 
mechanisms 
the 
provisions  set  out  in  article  87,  paragraph  7,  of  the 
Statute. 
My  delegation  is  convinced  that  the  challenges 

the  Court  faces  in  becoming  a  role  model  for  justice 
will be overcome only if we have a solid, efficient and 
effective  institution.  Now,  almost  10  years  since  the 
Court was established, the time has come to assess its 
institutional  operation.  Through  a  constructive  and 
structured  dialogue  among  the  Assembly  of  States 
Parties and the various bodies of the Court, we should 
identify options that can improve the governance of the 
Court  and  strengthen  its  institutional  framework  and 
judicial independence. 

However,  I  also  wish  to  emphasize  that  a  role 
model  for  justice  must  also  be  a  model  in  the  area  of 
resources.  Rationalizing 
human 
that  can  effectively 
implement 
it  urgent 
financial 
and 
thus 
requires 
that 
24 

10-61026 


expenditures,  achieving  judicial  proceedings  that  are 
more  effective,  efficient  and  responsive,  as  well  as 
promoting  the  transparency  and  accountability  of  all 
the  Court’s  bodies,  are  measures  that  will  result  in 
better use of the available resources. For these reasons, 
Mexico  calls  upon  the  Court’s  various  bodies  and 
officers to reflect on its real needs and to propose their 
own  internal  budget  austerity  measures,  taking  into 
account  the  financial  sacrifices  they  may  entail,  as  a 
sign of their  willingness to work towards a Court that 
can carry out its functions efficiently in terms of costs. 
A/65/PV.39

More  than  60  years  have  passed  since  the 
adoption  of  the  Convention  on  the  Prevention  and 
Punishment  of  the  Crime  of  Genocide,  in  which  the 
idea  of  a  permanent  international  criminal  court  was 
first conceived. Today that ideal is a reality. Now it is 
up to the international community to work together in 
order to maintain the efficacy, efficiency and integrity 
of  the  Rome  Statute,  while  it  falls  to  the  Court  to 
establish itself as a role model for justice that makes a 
meaningful  contribution  to  the  prevention  of  the  most 
heinous. Mexico will support the Court in its efforts. 


  The meeting rose at 5.55 p.m. 
10-61026 

25 
