
A/65/PV.56
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

56th plenary meeting 
Monday, 6 December 2010, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 
necessary reform. Revitalizing the work of the General 
Assembly is part of that effort. 

Progress  has  already  been  made  in  a  number  of 
areas.  For  example,  the  practice  of  electing  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  least  three 
months  before  he  takes  office  allows  him  better  to 
prepare himself for the role. Similarly, the prerogative 
of the President to organize informal thematic debates 
is an effective way to involve the General Assembly in 
matters  of  global  debate  and  to  ensure  an  effective 
working relationship with other players in the arena of 
global governance. 

Since assuming my functions as President, I have 
also  had  regular  interactions  with  all  the  successive 
Presidents of the Security Council for this year and the 
President of the Economic and Social Council. But, as 
noted  in  the  draft  resolution  introduced  for  discussion 
today, progress still needs to be made in a great number 
of areas, from the procedure for the nomination of the 
Secretary-General  to  the  working  methods  of  the 
Assembly. 
The  importance  of  these  issues  should  not  be 

risks 
underestimated.  An 
undermining 
the  debate.  The 
organization  of  too  many  high-level  meetings,  for 
example, dilutes the attention given to each individual 
one.  In that  context,  I  followed with great interest the 
efforts  undertaken  by 
to 
rationalize  its  agenda.  I  am  convinced  that  that 
approach is an example to be followed for the General 
Assembly.  
the  Second  Committee 
the  quality  of 
overloaded 
agenda 





  The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m. 



(spoke 
that  context,  I 
The  President
Agenda items 117 and 118 
Implementation of the resolutions of the  
United Nations 
Revitalization of the work of the General Assembly 

in  French):  The 
revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General Assembly  is 
an important topic that has now been on the agenda for 
several  sessions.  In 
thank  Their 
Excellencies  Ambassadors  Sanja  Štiglic  and  Jorge 
Argüello  for  their  effective  work  as  co-Chairs  of  the 
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  the  sixty-fourth  session.  Their 
efforts  led  to  the  adoption  of  the  Working  Group’s 
report  (A/64/903)  and  of  resolution  64/301.  Those 
documents will be useful to our discussion today. 

On  several  occasions  since  the  opening  of  this 
session, I have restated my vision of a strong General 
Assembly  that  serves  as  the  preeminent  forum  for 
global  debate.  I  have  noted  with  satisfaction  that  that 
vision  is  shared  by  many.  The  holding  of  informal 
debates  before  and  after  the  Group  of  Twenty  (G-20) 
Summit, which happened on 16 and 22 November and 
sought  build  a  bridge  between  the  G-20  and  the 
General  Assembly,  is  one  way  of  reaffirming  the 
central role of our Organization in global governance. 

Another  element,  which  is  just  as  important,  is 
that  of  ensuring  that  our  Organization  is  equipped  to 
meet 
the 

it  faces  and  undertake 
the  challenges 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-67395 (E) 
*1067395* 




thank 
the  Group’s  work.  I 
A/65/PV.56 


This  initiative  is  in  the  Assembly’s  hands.  I 
expect  today’s  debate  to  lead  to  a  clear  willingness  to 
move forward on initiatives to be taken to revitalize the 
Assembly, which will give useful signposts to the new 
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  Revitalization  of  the 
General Assembly,  the  Chairs  of  which, Ambassadors 
Dalius  Čekuolis  and  Camillo  Gonsalves,  have  agreed 
to  steer 
them  most 
particularly  and  assure  them  of  my  support  in  their 
work.  
Mr. Grauls (Belgium) (spoke in French): I have 

the honour to speak on behalf of the European Union. 
The candidate countries Turkey, Croatia and the former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia;  countries  of  the 
Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidates Albania,  Montenegro  and  Serbia;  countries 
of  the  European  Free Trade Association  and  members 
of  the  European  Economic  Area  Liechtenstein  and 
Norway, as well as the Republic of Moldova, Armenia 
and Georgia, endorse this statement. 

Mr.  President,  the  European  Union  first  of  all 
thanks your predecessor, Mr. Ali Treki, President of the 
General Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session.  We  also 
thank  Ms.  Sanja  Štiglic  and  Mr.  Jorge  Argüello,  the 
Permanent Representatives of Slovenia  and Argentina, 
respectively, for their work as Co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly.  The  European  Union  also  thanks  you,  
Mr.  President,  for  the  prompt  appointment  of  the 
Permanent  Representative  of 
the  Republic  of 
Lithuania,  Mr.  Dalius  Čekuolis,  and  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines, 
Mr.  Camillo  Gonsalves,  as  Co-Chairs  of  the  Working 
Group.  

Mr.  President,  you  devoted  your  statement 
opening the general debate of the sixty-fifth session to 
restoring the central role of the United Nations and the 
General  Assembly 
(see 
A/65/PV.11).  In  your  opening  address,  you  stressed 
that  too  often  public  opinion  views  the  General 
Assembly  as  a  powerless  forum,  with  no  real  impact. 
You voiced the hope that the sixty-fifth session would 
show  that  the  Assembly  is  capable  of  making  a 
difference.  The  European  Union  shares  your  frank 
assessment of the situation.  

Nevertheless,  the  change  that  you  call  for,  Sir, 
cannot  be  achieved  without  effort.  The  General 
Assembly  will  prove  the  skeptics  wrong  and  return  to 
in  global  governance 
is  convinced 
Mr.  President, 
The  European  Union 
that  concern  public  opinion  and 
the  heart  of  global  governance  only  if  the  Member 
States  affirm  their  willingness  to  review  their  habits 
and  working  methods  in  order  to  focus  fully  on  the 
questions 
the 
international community as a whole.  
That  exercise  will  require  difficult  choices  in 

revising 
the  Assembly’s  priorities  and  working 
methods,  particularly  in  terms  of  rationalizing  and 
reducing  the  number  of  resolutions.  Those  efforts 
should nevertheless allow us to devote ourselves more 
to  substantive  political  debates  on  emerging  issues  on 
which the United Nations — and the General Assembly 
in particular — are called to take action. 

the  European  Union  stands 
resolutely  at  your side in  your  efforts to revitalize the 
General  Assembly  and  reaffirms 
its  support  for 
effective  multilateralism,  of  which  the  United  Nations 
is  a  central  actor.  The  Lisbon  Treaty,  which  entered 
into  force  one  year  ago,  further  stresses  that  aspect. 
Bolstering the United Nations therefore remains one of 
the European Union’s principal priorities.  

the 
General  Assembly,  as  one  of  the  main  bodies  of  the 
United  Nations,  should  demonstrate  its  relevance  by 
concentrating  on  issues  that  are  in  the  interest  of  the 
Member  States,  the  international  community  as  a 
whole and public opinion.  

The  European  Union  has  always  believed  that  it 
is  vital  to  develop  specific  initiatives  designed  to 
improve  the Assembly’s  performance. That  is  why  we 
note  with  satisfaction  the  fact  that  the  latest  report  of 
the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the 
General Assembly,  as  called  for  by  resolution  64/301, 
includes  an  in-depth  review  of  the  inventory  table  of 
all the relevant proposals on this subject, as well as on 
the status of their implementation.  

The  debate  on  the  working  methods  of  the 
Second Committee, which took place at the opening at 
the Committee’s work during the sixty-fifth session, is 
another  example  of  concrete  progress 
the 
European  Union  welcomes.  That  initiative  should  be 
extended to the other Committees. 

In conclusion, the European Union wants to stress 
the  fundamental  role  played  by  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  General Assembly 
and  will  continue  to  engage  in  a  pragmatic  manner  in 
the  work  of  the  Working  Group.  In  that  context,  the 
that 
that 
2 

10-67395 
is 
the 
primary 
the 
policymaking 
the  United  Nations. 


European Union is pleased to contribute to the crafting 
of a plan of work. 
Mr.  Le  Luong  Minh  (Viet  Nam):  I  have  the 

honour to speak on behalf of the 10 States members of 
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN): 
Brunei  Darussalam,  Cambodia,  Indonesia,  the  Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Malaysia,  Myanmar, 
the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Viet Nam.  
ASEAN is consistent in its view that the General 

and 
Assembly 
It 
representative  body  of 
recognizes  the  role  of  the  General  Assembly  in 
addressing issues of international peace and security in 
accordance  with  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
Therefore,  ASEAN  underlines 
imperative  of 
revitalizing  the  work  of  the  Organization  with  a  view 
to  further  enhancing  the  role,  authority,  effectiveness 
and  efficiency  of  the  General Assembly. That  requires 
the commitment and political will of all Member States 
and should be conducted in a comprehensive, inclusive 
and transparent manner.  

In  that  regard, ASEAN  joins  the  call  for  the  full 
implementation  of  resolution  64/301,  adopted  on  
13 September 2010, on the revitalization of the work of 
the  General Assembly. ASEAN  appreciates  the  efforts 
of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of 
the  General  Assembly  that  resulted  in  its  report 
contained in document A/64/903, of 8 September 2010.  

the  vital 
importance  of 
information  flow,  cooperation  and 
coordination among the principle organs of the United 
Nations.  ASEAN  therefore  encourages,  inter  alia,  the 
continued  holding  of  periodic  meetings  between  the 
Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  Security 
Council and the Economic and Social Council, as well 
as  of  informal  meetings  of  the  Security  Council 
President  with  all  Member  States  before 
the 
preparation of Council’s annual report, as has been the 
case  in  2008,  2009  and  2010.  We  support  efforts  to 
promote  positive,  effective  and  balanced  working 
relationships among the principal organs of the United 
Nations,  especially  between  the  Security  Council  and 
the  General Assembly,  as  set  out  in Article  24  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  so  as  to  ensure  the 
effective discharge of their respective mandates, duties 
and functions. 
The  strengthening  of  the  Office  of  the  President 

of  the  General  Assembly  remains  essential  to  the 
ASEAN  cannot  emphasize  enough 
A/65/PV.56
process  of  revitalization.  That  includes,  among  other 
things,  the  strengthening  of  its  institutional  memory, 
adequate  budgetary  allocation  in  accordance  with 
existing  procedures,  and  the  provision  of  appropriate 
protocol and security services and office space for the 
President, within existing resources. In that connection, 
ASEAN  believes  it  necessary  to  ensure  both  the 
sufficient  provision  and  efficient  use  of  financial  and 
human resources for the Office in order to improve its 
substantive work. 

The  selection  and  appointment  of  the  Secretary-
General is yet another issue of great interest and deep 
concern  to  the  international  community.  ASEAN’s 
view  is  that  that  issue  should  be  addressed  in  a 
comprehensive  and  transparent  way  that  includes  all 
Member  States,  with  due  regard  to  regional  rotation 
and gender equality. 

ASEAN  urges  Member  States  to  strictly  observe 
Article  97  of  the  Charter,  as  well  as  provisions  of 
Assembly  resolutions  11(I)  of  24  January  1946  and 
51/241  of  31  July  1997,  concerning  the  role  of  the 
General Assembly, in appointing the Secretary-General 
upon  the  recommendation  of  the  Security  Council. 
Furthermore,  we  encourage 
the 
General  Assembly  to  consult  with  Member  States  to 
identify and endorse potential candidates, then forward 
the results to the Security Council. 

The  General  Assembly  should  assume  a  more 
proactive  role  in  dealing  with  issues  of  common 
concern  to  the  international  community,  including 
international  peace  and  security  and  the  economy,  as 
well  as  issues  relating  to  the  new  peacebuilding 
architecture, which has made immense contributions to 
the purposes and principles of the Charter and the goals 
of the Organization. 

We welcome the General Assembly’s initiative in 
convening timely and relevant meetings in response to 
the global crisis, such as the Conference on the World 
Financial  and  Economic  Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on 
Development,  in  June  2009.  ASEAN  encourages  the 
Assembly to further build on those practices. 

In today’s world of multi-stakeholder interaction, 
it  is  essential  that  the  General  Assembly’s  role  and 
authority  be  revitalized  to  contribute  to  strengthening 
and  universal 
the  United  Nations’ 
representation 
is 
committed to working actively and constructively with 
all other partners towards that end. 
in  global  governance.  ASEAN 
the  President  of 
legitimate 
10-67395 

3 

reiterates 
the  outset, 
revitalization  of 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement 
the 
the  validity  and  relevance  of 
Mr.  Benmehidi  (Algeria):  I  have  the  honour  to 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
A/65/PV.56 


speak  on  behalf  of 
(NAM). 

At 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
congratulates  His  Excellency  Ambassador  Camillo 
Gonsalves, Permanent Representative of Saint Vincent 
and  the  Grenadines,  and  His  Excellency  Ambassador 
Dalius  Čekuolis,  Permanent  Representative  of  the 
Republic  of  Lithuania,  upon  their  appointment  as 
co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  of  the 
Revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  during  the 
sixty-fifth  session.  Allow  me  also  to  express  the 
gratitude  of  the  members  of  the  Movement  to  Her 
Excellency  Ambassador  Sanja  Štiglic,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Slovenia,  and  His  Excellency 
Ambassador Jorge Argüello, Permanent Representative 
of Argentina, for their excellent work in co-chairing the 
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  during 
the  sixty-fourth 
session. 
the 

the  General 
importance  of 
Assembly  and 
its 
principled  position  with  regard  to  that  process.  The 
Movement underlines that the revitalization process is 
of a political nature aimed mainly at strengthening the 
role of the General Assembly as the chief deliberative 
policymaking  and  representative  organ  of  the  United 
Nations  and  its  position  in  the  wider  United  Nations 
system. The  process  should  therefore  be  conducted  in 
an inclusive, transparent and efficient manner. 

The Non-Aligned Movement emphasizes the need 
for  Member  States  to  fully  respect  the  functions  and 
powers of  each principal organ of the  United Nations, 
in  particular  the  General Assembly,  and  to  maintain  a 
balance  among  those  organs  within  their  respective 
Charter-based functions and powers. In that regard, the 
Security  Council  must  fully  observe  all  Charter 
provisions  and  all  General  Assembly  resolutions  that 
clarify  the  Council’s  relationship  with  the  Assembly 
and with other principal organs. 

Once  again,  NAM  expresses  its  concern,  raised 
during previous sessions, about the continuous attempt 
of  the  Security  Council  to  encroach  on  powers  and 
prerogatives of the General Assembly. Article 24 of the 
Charter does not provide the Security Council with the 
competence  to  address  issues  that  fall  within  the 
functions and powers of the General Assembly and the 
Economic and Social Council. 
in 
reiterates 
including  for 

The  General  Assembly,  as  the  policymaking 
organ  of  the  Organization,  has  the  authority  and  the 
essential  role  for  drawing  the  framework,  setting  the 
principles  and  identifying  the  objectives  for  the  wider 
United  Nations  system, 
its  numerous  organs, 
agencies and programmes.  

The  General  Assembly  should  maintain  its  role 
and  mandate  in  setting  the  priorities  of  the  United 
Nations in considering all budgetary and administrative 
issues  and  reforms,  including  its  absolute  authority  to 
allocate  and  reallocate  financial  and  human  resources 
and  in  the  appointment  of  senior  officials  in  the 
Secretariat, in accordance with the Charter and relevant 
Assembly  resolutions.  In  that  regard,  the  prerogatives 
of  the  Assembly  as  the  chief  oversight  organ  of  the 
Organization, 
the  management  and 
procurement  of  peacekeeping  operations,  must  be 
respected.  

The Non-Aligned Movement, while expressing its 
readiness  to  continue  to  support  all  ongoing  efforts  to 
strengthen the central role and authority of the General 
Assembly,  wishes  to  state  that  it  will  oppose  any 
approach  that  seeks  to  undermine  or  minimize  the 
Assembly’s  achievements  or  diminish  its  current  role 
and  functions,  or  that  raises  questions  about  its 
relevance and credibility. 

the 
adoption  of  resolution  64/301  in  September,  by  which 
the  General  Assembly,  inter  alia,  established  the  Ad 
Hoc  Working  Group  to  discuss,  during  the  current 
session,  issues  related  to  the  revitalization  of  the 
General Assembly and to assess in particular the status 
of  the  implementation  of  the  Assembly’s  previous 
resolutions on this matter.  
the  validity  and 

relevance  of  all 
its 
willingness to contribute effectively and constructively 
to  the  activities  of  the  Working  Group  in  order  to 
identify  ways  and  means  to  strengthen  the  role  and 
authority  of 
thorough 
evaluation of the status of implementation of Assembly 
resolutions and a clear identification of the underlying 
causes  behind  any  lack  of  implementation  are  of  the 
utmost  importance  in  order  to  progressively  eliminate 
the  constraints 
the  process  of 
revitalization  of  the  Assembly  from  achieving  all  its 
potential. 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  welcomes 
its  positions  and  reaffirms 
the  General  Assembly.  A 
that  still  prevent 
The  Movement 
4 

10-67395 
It 
is 
in 
that  regard, 
The  Movement  recalls, 



It  is  obvious  that,  while  the  prerogatives  of  the 
President  of  the  General Assembly  have  not  changed, 
his  or  her  role  and  activities  have  drastically  evolved 
over  the  years,  both  in  adapting  to  the  growing 
activities  and  initiatives  of  the  Assembly  and  in 
performing official and protocol functions and making 
the  Assembly’s  work  more  visible. 
the 
Movement’s  view  that  that  increase  in  the  workload 
should  be  matched  with  the  necessary  human  and 
financial resources. 

that 
resolution  64/301  requests  the  Secretary-General  to 
submit  proposals  in  the  context  of  the  proposed 
programme  budget  for  the  biennium  2012-2013  to 
review  the  budget  allocation  to  the  Office  of  the 
President of the General Assembly, and emphasizes the 
importance  of  ensuring  the  effectiveness  of  the  Office 
of  the  President,  including  through  strengthening  its 
institutional  memory.  While  noting  with  appreciation 
the progress already achieved in that regard, we are of 
the  view  that  a  particular  effort  should  be  devoted  to 
the  implementation  of  the  already  existing  resolutions 
on  this  matter  as  well  as  to  identifying,  during  the 
upcoming discussions in the Working Group, ways and 
means  to  pursue  this  objective  progressively  and  with 
determination. 

NAM  reaffirms  the  need  for  the  selection  of  the 
Secretary-General to be more transparent and inclusive 
of  all  Member  States  so  as  to  allow  the  General 
Assembly  to  participate  effectively  and  efficiently  in 
the  Secretary-
the  selection  and  appointment  of 
General, 
the  United  Nations 
Charter. 

NAM is of the view that, in full compliance with 
Article 97 of the Charter, one useful step to strengthen 
the  Assembly’s  role  in  the  selection  process  is  to 
encourage it to consult with Member States in order to 
identify  and 
formal 
presentation  before  the  Assembly  of  candidatures  for 
the  position  of  Secretary-General  will  undoubtedly 
allow for effective and useful interaction with Member 
States.  The  President  of  the  General Assembly  could, 
for  that  purpose,  convene  a  meeting  of  the Assembly 
for  an  exchange  of  views  and  dialogue  with  all 
candidates.  The  outcome  of 
the  consultations, 
including a possible endorsement of candidates, would 
then be forwarded to the Security Council. 
to  endorse  candidates.  A 
in  conformity  with 
I 
take 
A/65/PV.56
contribute 
and 
in 
the 
like 
theme 
at 
its 
sixty-fifth 
discussion 
to 
include 
constructive 
significantly 
(Egypt):  At 
In  conclusion, 
Mr.  Abdelaziz 
I  would 
for  your  decision 

NAM  is  aware  also  that  that  mechanism,  when 
adopted,  will  require  a  transitional  period  and  might 
not  be  immediately  applicable  to  the  next  process  of 
selection and appointment of the Secretary-General.  

the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
reaffirms  that  a  reinvigorated  General Assembly,  fully 
exerting  its  role  and  authority  in  a  more  responsive 
environment,  would 
to 
strengthening  the  wider  United  Nations  system  and  to 
the  improvement  of  international  governance  and  the 
enhancement  of  multilateralism.  NAM  is  ready  to 
cooperate  and  to  engage  with  other  delegations  in 
fruitful 
a 
comprehensive,  thorough  and  transparent  manner  on 
this agenda item. 
outset, 

to  express  Egypt’s 
Mr. President, 
appreciation 
the 
revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General Assembly  in 
the  main  priorities  and  as  an  essential  element  of  the 
Assembly’s 
session, 
"Reaffirming  the  central role of the United Nations  in 
global governance". 

thank  Her 
Excellency  Ambassador  Sanja  Štiglic,  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Slovenia,  and  His  Excellency 
Ambassador 
Permanent 
Representative  of  Argentina,  for  their  excellent  work 
and  dedication  in  co-chairing  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  General Assembly 
during  the  sixty-fourth  session,  and  to  pledge  full 
support  for  the  newly  appointed  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad 
Hoc  Working  Group  for  the  sixty-fifth  session,  His 
Excellency  Ambassador  Dalius  Čekuolis, 
the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Lithuania,  and  His 
Excellency  Ambassador  Camillo  Gonsalves, 
the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines, in pushing the process of revitalization of 
the work of the General Assembly forward. 

I would like to associate Egypt with the statement 
made by His Excellency the Permanent Representative 
of  Algeria  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement, 
and to highlight some additional remarks Egypt deems 
necessary for the success of the process of revitalizing 
the General Assembly. 

consensus  more 
containing 
Since  1993,  Member  States  have  adopted  by 
resolutions 
at 
aimed 
than  16  consecutive 
agreed  measures 
Jorge  Argüello, 
this  opportunity 
to  also 
the 
10-67395 

5 
specific 

in 
the  main  objectives  set 
A/65/PV.56 

improving  and  enhancing  the  work  of  the  General 
Assembly  as  the  chief  deliberative,  policymaking  and 
representative  principal  organ  of  the  United  Nations 
and at strengthening its role in the process of standard-
setting and the codification of international law. 

Unfortunately,  those  agreed  measures  have  not 
been  implemented.  Furthermore,  we  have  failed  to 
achieve 
the  relevant 
paragraphs  of  the  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution 
55/2) and the 2005 World Summit Outcome (resolution 
60/1).  No  concrete  results  have  been  achieved  on  this 
important topic thus far. That is mainly due to the lack 
of  political  will  to  ensure  that  the  General  Assembly 
plays  its  leading  role  in  strict  observance  of  the 
delicate  balance  established  by  the  Charter  among  all 
principal organs, in particular as concerns the Security 
Council. 

Therefore,  Egypt  believes  that  the  first  and 
crucial  step  to  carry  forward  the  process  of  the 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  would  be  to 
focus  on  the  honest  implementation  of  all  previous 
resolutions adopted by consensus on this matter and on 
new  proposals  adopted  during  the  current  session.  In 
that  regard,  and  in  accordance  with  paragraph  3  of 
resolution  64/301,  we  expect  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group to conduct a thorough evaluation of the status of 
implementation  of  previous 
the 
Secretary-General to submit an update on the status of 
implementation  of  all  those  resolutions,  as  well  as 
specific proposals to ensure their full implementation. 
The  relationship  between  the  General  Assembly 

the  Security  Council  should  centre  on 
the 
and 
respective 
application  by  both  organs  of 
mandates.  Unfortunately, 
the  Security  Council 
continues to encroach on the role and functions of the 
General Assembly in many aspects. On the other hand, 
the  Assembly  does  not,  and  sometimes  cannot,  fully 
exercise its responsibilities enshrined in the Charter. 

The General Assembly should actively undertake 
its  role  and  respond  to  emerging  situations  that 
endanger international peace and security, as stipulated 
in  Articles  10  to  14  and  35  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter,  and  should  use  the  procedures  set  out  in 
rules 7,  8,  9  and  10  of  the  rules  of  procedure  of  the 
Assembly, which enable swift and urgent action by the 
Assembly,  bearing  in  mind  that  the  Security  Council 
has  the  primary  responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security.  
resolutions,  and 
their 
lead 
in 
the 
to 
take 
the 
issues  related 
the  ability  of 
illustrations  of 
the  competence  of 
The  adoption  of  resolution  63/301,  on 

the 
situation  in  Honduras,  and  of  resolutions  64/10  and 
64/254,  on  the  follow-up  to  the  report  of  the  United 
Nations Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict, are 
the  General 
clear 
Assembly 
to 
maintaining  international  peace  and  security  without 
encroaching  on 
the  Security 
Council.  This  trend  on  the  part  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  its  President  should  be  encouraged  and 
even developed, particularly when the Security Council 
fails  to  address  cases  involving  genocide,  ethnic 
cleansing, crimes against humanity, grave violations of 
international  humanitarian  law  and  the  cessation  of 
hostilities  between  belligerent  parties,  in  fulfilment  of 
its  primary  responsibility  and  in  accordance  with 
paragraphs  138  and  139  of  the  2005  World  Summit 
Outcome. 

The reform of the Security Council is imperative, 
at the same time, in order to make it more democratic 
through  enlargement  and  the  total  elimination  of  the 
veto,  starting  with  cases  of  major  crimes.  Achieving 
that  objective  will  solidify  the  commitment  of  the 
Council’s  permanent  members,  including  the  new 
permanent members, and of all members of the General 
Assembly to protect peoples from such heinous crimes. 

Egypt stresses that the General Assembly remains 
the  principle  organ  to  conduct  reviews  of  subsidiary 
bodies,  including  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  in  accordance  with  its 
relevant  resolutions.  On  29  October  the  Assembly 
concluded 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  with  a  consensus  (see 
A/65/PV.41),  and  Egypt  stresses  that  the  result  of  the 
review  process  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  should 
also be adopted by consensus.  

The  General  Assembly  should  also  increase  its 
interaction  with  civil  society  and  non-governmental 
organizations and the private sector on relevant issues. 
In that regard, Egypt appreciates the steps taken by the 
President of the Assembly at its sixty-fourth session in 
convening thematic debates on topics including water, 
disarmament  and  non-proliferation  and  peacekeeping 
operations, which also contributed positively to public 
awareness of the Assembly and to its visibility. We also 
commend  you,  Mr.  President,  for  continuing  that 
practice,  starting  with  a  thematic  debate  on  disaster 
risk  reduction 
in  February  2011,  which  will  be 
followed by other debates on strengthening the central 
the  process  of 
review  of 
6 

10-67395 
the  General  Assembly  upon 


role  of  the  United  Nations  in  global  governance  and 
other issues. 

Ensuring  the  effectiveness  of  the  Office  of  the 
President of the General Assembly is also essential for 
improving  the  role  and  the  authority  of  the Assembly, 
including  through  enhancing  the  institutional  memory 
of  the  Office.  In  that  regard,  we  look  forward  to  the 
Secretary-General’s  report  to  be  submitted  in  the 
context  of  the  proposed  programme  budget  for  the 
biennium 2012-2013, to review the budget allocation to 
the  President’s  Office  so  that  the  General  Assembly 
may  take  a  decision  ensuring  that  the  financial  and 
human  resources  allocated  to  the  Office  match  the 
expanded workload of the Assembly.  

The  process  of  the  selection  and  appointment  of 
the Secretary-General is becoming less transparent and 
less  inclusive  over  time.  Article  97  of  the  Charter  is 
clear  in  stating  that  “the  Secretary-General  shall  be 
appointed  by 
the 
recommendation  of  the  Security  Council”.  However, 
the  Security  Council  —  in  particular  the  permanent 
members  —  has  assumed  too  much  power  over  the 
years  in  this  matter,  which  is  considered  one  of  the 
many  aspects  of  its  encroachment  on  the  prerogatives 
of the Assembly.  

Moreover,  it  has  been  proved  that  resolution 
11 (1)  of  1946  has  shortcomings  in  addressing  the 
growing  concern  of  Member  States.  For  that  reason, 
there  is  an  urgent  need  for  a  genuine  improvement  in 
the current process through the honest implementation 
of  the  relevant  provisions  of  Assembly  resolutions 
51/241 and 60/286. That will allow the Assembly to be 
more  involved  at  early  stages  of  the  selection  process 
when identifying candidates for this key post. The veto 
should  not  be  used  in  the  selection  of  the  Secretary-
General. 

On  the  other  hand,  the  report  of  the  Joint 
Inspection  Unit  on  selection  and  conditions  of  service 
of  executive  heads  in  the  United  Nations  system 
organizations, contained in document JIU/REP/2009/8, 
should  constitute  a  solid  basis  for  discussion  among 
Member  States,  within  the  framework  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly, about ways to enhance the Assembly’s role 
in the selection of the Secretary-General. 

Our  focus  should  not  be  directed  only  towards 
procedures  and  working  methods  but  rather  towards 
substantive  measures.  Therefore,  the  best  way  to 
10-67395 

7 
to 
A/65/PV.56
to  enhance 
enhance and promote multilateralism is to revitalize the 
General  Assembly  by  identifying  and  implementing 
further  measures 
its  role,  authority, 
effectiveness  and  efficiency,  consistently  building  on 
previous resolutions and the progress made during past 
sessions. As  the  credibility  of  the  United  Nations  and 
its  capacity  to  fulfil  its  responsibilities  is  increasingly 
linked  to  the  ability  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
exercise  its  institutional  prerogatives,  Egypt  stresses 
the  urgent  need  for  strong  political  will  in  support  of 
international  good  governance  based  on  equality, 
transparency and accountability. 
Mr. Delgado Sánchez (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 

My delegation fully supports the statement made by the 
representative of Algeria on behalf of the Movement of 
Non-Aligned  Countries.  We  would  like  to  add  a  few 
comments in our national capacity. 

First,  we  welcome  the  commendable  efforts  of 
the co-chairmanship of the Ad Hoc Working Group on 
the Revitalization of the General Assembly during the 
sixty-fourth  session,  the  report  of  the  Working  Group 
in  document A/64/903,  and  the  adoption  of  resolution 
64/301.  We  also  congratulate  the  Ambassadors  of 
Lithuania  and  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  for 
assuming  the  co-chairmanship  during  the  sixty-fifth 
session, and we assure them of our full cooperation and 
help. 

The  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  is  a 
key element for the true reform of the United Nations. 
Until  the  Assembly  fully  exercises  its  functions  and 
powers,  we  cannot  be  satisfied  with  our  work.  We 
cannot  speak  of  an  organization  that  responds  to  the 
current  state  of  international  relations  unless  we  turn 
the  Assembly 
the  centre  of  discussion  and 
multilateral work.  

The main problem in revitalizing the work of the 
General  Assembly  is  the  lack  of  political  will  on  the 
part of certain States that want to impose their narrow 
political 
the  majority  democratic 
viewpoint of the international community. That is why 
the  revitalization  of  the  Assembly  is  not  a  technical 
matter,  as  some  would  have  us  believe,  but  an 
essentially political matter.  

That is the key to raising such important issues as 
the  non-implementation  of  many  General  Assembly 
resolutions, which, although they collectively represent 
a  significant  body  of  standards,  remain  inert  in  many 
the  many 
cases.  That  situation  also  applies 
interests  over 
into 
it 
is 
its 
should  be  paid 
Special  attention 
the  exclusive  responsibility  of 
A/65/PV.56 

resolutions  on  the  revitalization  of  the  Assembly, 
which have likewise seen limited implementation.  

the 
to 
implementation  of  resolutions  and  recommendations 
concerning the election of the Secretary-General and to 
the  search  for  practical  measures  to  ensure  their 
enforcement. As  we  have  said  on  other  occasions,  the 
work  of  revitalizing  the  General  Assembly  cannot  be 
limited to speeches. The Assembly enjoys all the legal 
prerogatives to take action. We hope that in the course 
of  this  year  the Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  will  adopt  a 
broad  and  flexible  working  agenda,  enabling  us  to 
achieve concrete results. 

We  have  to  guarantee  the  appropriate  balance 
among  the  principle  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  in 
accordance  with 
its  Charter.  We  are  particularly 
concerned  by  the  frequent  attempts  by  the  Security 
Council  to  establish  legal  standards  and  definitions, 
overlooking the fact that according to Article 13 of the 
Charter 
the 
Assembly to encourage the progressive development of 
international law and its codification. Those dangerous 
trends  and  attempts  to  broaden  the  Security  Council’s 
agenda  beyond 
jurisdiction  must  be  halted 
immediately,  because,  among  other  reasons,  they  are 
clear violations of the United Nations Charter.  

principle 
deliberative,  policymaking  and  most  representative 
body  of  the  United  Nations.  It  enjoys  legitimacy  and 
prestige  due  to  its  broad  membership  and  democratic 
character  as  the  ultimate  expression  of  the  sovereign 
equality  of  States. The  revitalization  of  its  work  is  an 
issue of the utmost importance. 

Only  a  body  with  the  characteristics  of  the 
General  Assembly  can  face  up  to  today’s  global 
problems,  which 
limited 
capacities of any one State or even group of States, no 
matter how strong they may believe themselves to be. 
Global  problems  call  for  global  solutions,  with  the 
participation  of  everyone.  If  we  fail  in  this,  the  price 
could be the very existence of humankind. The General 
Assembly  is  the  only  body  that  can  orchestrate  such 
efforts. 

Mr. Hardeep Singh Puri (India): I am honoured 
to address the General Assembly on behalf of India at 
today’s  joint  debate.  We  believe  that  the  issue  of  the 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  has  assumed 
particular  significance  in  recent  years.  My  delegation 
The  General  Assembly 
require  more 
than 
the 
is 
the 

transnational 
issues.  This  was 
was therefore encouraged by the theme chosen by you, 
Mr.  President,  for  the  general  debate  at  the  sixty-fifth 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  in  September  this 
year,  namely,  “Reaffirming  the  central  role  of  the 
United  Nations  in  global  governance”.  Indeed,  we 
would like to place on record our appreciation for that. 
We also welcome your personal attention to matters of 
badly  needed  institutional  reform,  in  particular  the 
reform of the Security Council and the revitalization of 
the work of the General Assembly. 

The starting point of my delegation’s position on 
the  issue  of  revitalizing  the  General  Assembly  is  the 
firm  belief  that  this  will  be  possible  only  when  the 
Assembly’s  position  as 
the  chief  deliberative, 
policymaking  and  representative  organ  of  the  United 
Nations  is  respected  in  both  letter  and  spirit.  The 
General  Assembly  should  take  the  lead  in  setting  the 
global agenda and restoring the centrality of the United 
Nations  in  formulating  multilateral  approaches  to 
resolving 
the  role 
intended  for  the  Assembly  under  Article  10  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  —  that  it  discuss  any 
questions  or  matters  within  the  scope  of  the  present 
Charter or relating to the powers and functions of any 
organs  provided  for  in  the  Charter,  that  is  to  say:  the 
Security  Council,  the  Economic  and  Social  Council, 
the Trusteeship Council and the International Court of 
Justice, as well as the Secretariat. 

the 
deliberations  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  at  the  sixty-
fourth session. We provided a number of inputs at the 
meetings  held  during  the  past  session.  Those  inputs 
were  provided  in  a  spirit  of  constructive  engagement, 
and we are pleased that they were taken on board in the 
negotiations  leading  to  the  adoption  of  resolution 
64/301. 

I  am  happy  to  place  on  record  our  appreciation 
for the good work done by the co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc 
Working  Group  last  year,  Ambassadors  Sanja  Štiglic, 
of Slovenia, and Jorge Argüello, of Argentina. Equally, 
I  would  like  to  place  on  record  my  delegation’s 
appreciation  for  the  work  done  by  the  Algerian 
delegation as the Non-Aligned Movement chair on this 
issue, as well as for the other negotiating partners who 
worked in a spirit of cooperation. 

While  we  are  generally  happy  that  resolution 
64/301  has  been  able  to  highlight  some  of  the 
My  delegation  participated  actively 
in 
8 

10-67395 
to  place  on  record 
the  Republic  of  Lithuania, 
that  you,  Mr.  President,  have  chosen 


important  steps  required  on  our  collective  journey 
towards  a  revitalized  General  Assembly,  we  firmly 
believe that we still have some distance to travel. 

Let me place on record my delegation’s resolve to 
continue to actively participate in the deliberations on 
this issue in the current session. We are enthused by the 
fact 
two 
outstanding  and  distinguished  colleagues  of  mine,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Camillo  Gonsalves,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines, 
and  His  Excellency  Mr.  Dalius  Čekuolis,  Permanent 
Representative  of 
to 
co-chair this year’s Ad Hoc Working Group. They can 
count  on  the  Indian  delegation  as  they  go  about  their 
important task. 

Without  prejudging  the  proceedings  of  the  Ad 
Hoc Working Group, which should start soon, I would 
like 
the  Indian  delegation’s 
considered  views  on  some  important  aspects  of  the 
issue  of  the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly. 
First  of  all,  it  is  critical  that  we  establish  a  proper 
relationship  of  respect  for  the  respective  mandates  of 
the General Assembly and the Security Council, in the 
spirit  of  the  Charter.  Here,  it  is  particularly  important 
that the Council not encroach upon the mandate of the 
General  Assembly  by  making  extremely  wide  and 
permissive  interpretations  of  what  constitutes  a  threat 
to  international  peace  and  security,  a  breach  of  the 
peace,  an  act  of  aggression  or  a  situation  in  which  it 
can take action under Chapter VII of the Charter of the 
United Nations. 

As we prepare to rejoin the Security Council after 
a  hiatus  of  19  years,  it  is  clear  that  the  Council’s 
agenda is, to say the least, overburdened because it has 
anointed itself with the  responsibility for dealing with 
issues that, although seemingly important, leave it with 
less  time  to  deal  with  the  real  hotspots  that  constitute 
the real threats to international peace and security. The 
balance between the General Assembly and the Council 
is  only  one  of  the  dimensions  of  what  needs  to  be 
addressed. We  propose  to  raise  these  issues  in  the Ad 
Hoc Working Group. 

The  Assembly  must  have  a  greater  say  in  the 
process  of  selecting 
the  Secretary-General.  The 
continued  circumscription  of  the Assembly’s  role  and 
responsibilities  in  the  process  of  the  selection  and 
appointment of the Secretary-General needs to change, 
in the interests of the United Nations system in general 
A/65/PV.56
in 
and the Assembly’s prerogatives in particular. As it was 
the General Assembly that limited its own role, it will 
have  to  be  the  Assembly  that  claws  back  its  rightful 
place in the process of selecting the Secretary-General. 
The  Assembly  and  the  other  entities  that  form 

the  United  Nations  system  must  reflect 
part  of 
diplomatic  best  practices 
their  day-to-day 
functioning.  They  have  a  lot  to  learn  from  Member 
States in that regard. 

In  conclusion,  let  me  re-emphasize  the  need  to 
discuss substantive measures that would strengthen the 
role  of  General  Assembly  as  the  most  representative 
and  chief  deliberative,  legislative  and  policymaking 
body  at  the  disposal  of  the  international  community. 
The General Assembly can expect India’s constructive 
support and participation in those efforts. 

Mrs. Dunlop (Brazil): At the outset, allow me to 
express  our  gratitude  to Ambassadors  Sanja  Štiglic  of 
Slovenia  and  Jorge  Argüello  of  Argentina  for  their 
diligent  work  at  the  helm  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  General Assembly 
during  the  sixty-fourth  session.  Under  their  wise 
leadership,  the  General  Assembly  adopted  resolution 
64/301, which represents an important step towards the 
revitalization of the General Assembly. We welcome its 
provisions,  especially  in  relation  to  the  role  of  the 
General Assembly  in  the  process  of  the  selection  and 
appointment 
the 
strengthening  of  the  institutional  arrangements  for  the 
Office  of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
the  proposal  to  review  the  working  methods  of  the 
plenary and the Main Committees. 

I  would  also  like  to  extend  a  warm  welcome  to 
Ambassadors Camillo Gonsalves, of Saint Vincent and 
the  Grenadines,  and  Dalius  Čekuolis,  of  Lithuania,  as 
the  co-Chairs  of 
the 
Revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  during  the 
present  session.  I  pledge  my  delegation’s  full  support 
to them. 

As the most representative decision-making body 
of  the  United  Nations,  the  General  Assembly  is  the 
natural  political  forum  for  the  consideration  of  all 
relevant 
Its 
legitimacy,  drawn  from  the  universal  nature  of  its 
membership  and  its  democratic  status,  also  confers 
upon the General Assembly a central role in overseeing 
the  implementation  of  the  mandates  accorded  by 
Member  States  and  the  United  Nations  system.  In  our 
the  Working  Group  on 
international  agenda. 
Secretary-General, 
issues  on 
the 
of 
the 
10-67395 

9 

individual  bodies  and 
As  we  have  previously  noted, 
A/65/PV.56 

endeavours  to  improve  and  strengthen  the  multilateral 
system,  it  is  vital  to  ensure  the  vigour,  efficacy  and 
relevance of the work of the General Assembly. 

Brazil  believes  that  the  principal  organs  of  the 
United Nations should work in close coordination and 
in  a  mutually  reinforcing  and  integrated  manner. 
Focusing  solely  on 
their 
functions and duties will not suffice. It is necessary to 
promote  better  coordination  and  collaboration  among 
them, in full compliance with the letter and the spirit of 
the Charter. 

the  Security 
Council’s  work  needs  to  be  complemented  by  actions 
by  the  General  Assembly,  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  and  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  in  order 
for  the  system  to  be  fully  effective.  The  General 
Assembly  itself  should  do  more  to  meet  the  global 
challenges that beset the international community. The 
need  to  improve  the  functioning  of  the  governing 
bodies  of  the  United  Nations  system  is  therefore 
increasingly  clear.  It  is  crucial  that  the  different 
governance entities of the system function not only in 
an integrated but also in a complementary manner. 

Enhancing the direct interaction between Member 
States  and  the  Secretariat  should  also  be  at  the 
forefront  of  the  process  of  the  revitalization  of  the 
General Assembly.  More  frequent  and  direct  dialogue 
between 
internal  system-wide 
coordination mechanisms, such as the Chief Executives 
Board, would be an important step in that direction. 
The role of the General Assembly in the process 

of  selecting  and  appointing  the  Secretary-General 
should reflect its position as the main governing body 
of  the  United  Nations.  We  must  build  on  existing 
resolutions  in  order  to  enhance  the  current  procedure. 
The  full  membership  should  have  an  opportunity  to 
meet  and  interact  with  prospective  candidates  in  a 
structured manner, prior to endorsement. 
Also,  we  would  strongly  support  more  in-depth 

consideration of the role of the General Assembly with 
respect to the procedures for selecting, appointing and 
confirming  the  heads  of  major  specialized  agencies, 
funds and programmes, with a view to ensuring greater 
the  participation  of 
transparency  and  enhancing 
Member  States.  We  believe 
that  more  balanced 
regional  representation  and  rotation  across  senior 
positions  within  the  United  Nations  system  could  be 
considered in the interest of the whole membership. 
the  Assembly  and 
to  enhancing 

Mr. Tashibayev (Kazakhstan): First of all, let me 
thank  you,  Mr.  President,  for  organizing  this  joint 
debate,  which  gives  Member  States  an  opportunity  to 
reaffirm  their  commitment  to  strengthen  the  United 
Nations  with  a  view 
its  authority, 
efficiency  and  capacity  to  address  effectively  the  full 
range  of  global  challenges  through  one  of  its  key 
deliberative  and  policymaking  organs,  namely,  the 
General Assembly. 
In  an  ever  increasingly  complex  world,  with  the 

escalating  proliferation  of  pressing 
issues  of  an 
unprecedented  nature,  it  is  all  the  more  imperative  to 
revitalize  the  role  and  authority  of  this  body  through 
the political will and commitment of all Member States 
to enable it to perform optimally and to fully exercise 
the  power  granted  to  it  in  the  United  Nations  Charter. 
The  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  is  a  core 
element  of  the  entire  reform  process  of  the  United 
Nations, which, in turn, would lead to the reform of its 
other main bodies and their working methods. 

Notwithstanding  the  equal  division  of  functions 
of the three principal organs, as reflected in the United 
Nations  Charter,  there  continues  to  be  debate  about 
their relative powers based on different interpretations 
of the respective provisions described in the Charter. 

The  costs  of  delay  in  strengthening  the  General 
Assembly  are  extremely  high.  On  the  other  hand, 
overcoming  differences  does  not  entail  the  same  high 
through  strong 
toll,  and  can  be  easily  achieved 
collective  political  determination  on 
the  part  of 
Member States. 

Kazakhstan  takes  note  of  measures  to  improve 
the  efficiency  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  wish  to 
highlight the work done thus far by the two co-Chairs, 
the  Permanent  Representatives  of  Slovenia  and 
Argentina. We are grateful for their detailed analysis of 
the  status  of  existing  resolutions  and  decisions  on 
revitalizing the Assembly. 

Assembly’s 
constructive strategy for delivering results. 
A sound and professionally competent Secretariat 

a 
the 
is 
recommendations 
the  General 
Assembly.  It  must  therefore  be  staffed  with  the  most 
qualified  personnel  to  perform  the  multifarious  tasks 
demanded of it efficiently and effectively. 
Member  States  need  to  examine  the  General 
inadequate  performance  and  offer  a 
implementing 
revitalizing 
non 
for 
sine 
qua 
for 
10 

10-67395 
We  commend 
the  positive 
initiative  of 
representatives  of 
Other  welcome  measures 



the 
President of the General Assembly to meet periodically 
with  the  Presidents  of  the  Security  Council  and  the 
Economic and Social Council, with a view to ensuring 
increased cooperation, coordination and synergy in the 
work  of  the  three  key  organs.  We  would  also  like  to 
acknowledge the proactive stance taken in recent years 
by  former  Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly  in 
addressing  critical  global  issues  through  thematic 
debates and informal plenary meetings. We expect that 
the  President  of  the  sixty-fifth  session  will  lead 
constructive  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the 
reform  of  the  Security  Council,  which  is  one  of  the 
most vital issues in the process of reforming the entire 
Organization. 
include  Main 

Committees’  use  of 
interactive  debates,  panel 
discussions  and  question  periods  to  enhance  informal 
and  in-depth  deliberations  and  bring  together  experts 
from various fields. These have enabled a dynamic and 
candid  exchange  of  views  between  heads  of 
departments  and  offices, 
the 
Secretary-General  and  special  rapporteurs,  thereby 
enriching  the  decision-making  processes  of  the  Main 
Committees.  However,  we  are  of  the  view  that  those 
initiatives  should  not  replace  reforms  aimed,  first  and 
foremost, at strengthening the authority of the General 
Assembly. 

My  delegation  has  repeatedly  voiced  strong 
support for a greater role for the General Assembly — 
through  debates  among  Member  States  —  in  the 
process  of  selecting  the  Secretary-General,  as  well  as 
for 
to  require 
candidates  to  present  their  views  before  the  entire 
Assembly. 

In  June  2010,  Member  States  welcomed  the 
President’s proposal to the Ad Hoc Working Group on 
the  Revitalization  of 
the  General  Assembly  on 
strengthening  the  institutional  memory  of  his  Office. 
During  a 
thematic  meeting  held  on  18  June, 
Kazakhstan  supported 
to 
review  the  budgetary  allocation  for  that  purpose  — 
including a regular budget for staffing, protocol, safety 
and security and other pertinent requirements — and to 
consider establishing a trust fund. 
(spoke in French) 

the  resolutions 
We  need  to  continue  to  analyse  the  reasons  that 
the 
the  establishment  of  a  procedure 
that  have  been  adopted  on 
the  President’s  proposal 
A/65/PV.56
revitalization  of  the  General Assembly  have  not  been 
implemented.  Resolution  64/301,  which  has  just  been 
adopted,  is  the  second  substantive  resolution  on  the 
revitalization of the General Assembly in the span of a 
few years. It addresses most of the issues that we have 
taken up and includes our conclusions. In adopting that 
document,  we  welcomed  the  tenacity  and  expertise  of 
the co-Chairs and the goodwill of the many delegations 
that made the resolution possible. 

We  need  to  raise  the  profile  of  the  work  of  the 
General Assembly.  We  must  continue  to  look  into  the 
reasons for the seeming lack of interest in the work of 
the  Assembly  on  the  part  of  the  public  by  proposing 
cooperation  with  major  media  outlets  and  by  using 
modern communication technologies.  
(spoke in English) 
We endorse and call for enhancing public awareness of 
the  work  and  decisions  of  the  Assembly  through 
intensive  mass  media  outreach,  supported  by  greater 
documentation and new technologies. Of equal priority 
are  the  General  Assembly’s  relationship  with  the 
Secretariat  and  the  need  to  focus  on  devising  voting 
and balloting options and processes that are more time-
effective, reliable, efficient and secure. 

to  conclude  by 
expressing  its  hope  that  concrete  and  significant 
progress  on  revitalizing  the General Assembly  will  be 
achieved during the sixty-fifth session. 
Mrs.  Kolontai  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian): 

Revitalizing 
the  General  Assembly 
continues  to  be  a  relevant  issue  and  a  priority  for  the 
delegation  of  the  Republic  of  Belarus.  Our  common 
efforts  are  geared  towards  strengthening  the  role  and 
status  of 
the  main 
deliberative,  guiding  and  representative  body  of  the 
United Nations. We believe that it is necessary to focus 
on  creating  conditions  conducive  to  enhancing  the 
effectiveness of the General Assembly and bringing its 
mandate  into  line  with  the  requirements  of  the  times 
and the international situation. 

The  delegation  of  Belarus  welcomes  the  report 
(A/64/903)  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Revitalization  of 
the 
outcomes  of  the  Group’s  work  during  the  sixty-fourth 
session. We believe that, in order to take advantage of 
the  progress  made  in  past  years,  we  must  define  new 
approaches  during  this  session  to  strengthen  the  role, 
the  General  Assembly  and 
the  General  Assembly  as 
My  delegation  would 
the  work  of 
like 
10-67395 

11 

A/65/PV.56 

authority, efficiency and effectiveness of the Assembly 
on the basis, among other things, of the resolutions that 
have  been  adopted  and  the  assessments  of  their 
implementation. 

We  share  the  view  set  out  in  the  Group’s  report 
that  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General 
Assembly  is  primarily  a  political  issue  that  requires 
Member States to show the necessary will to make the 
anticipated changes. We wish to note the important role 
of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  in  the  negotiating 
process  on  the  revitalization  of  the  Assembly’s  work 
and the development of constructive decisions.  

In general, efforts in recent years to enhance the 
work of the General Assembly are starting to bear fruit. 
Thematic  debates  and  interactive  dialogues  of  the 
Assembly  are  held  regularly  on  current  international 
issues  that  are  of  particular  relevance  to  Member 
States. The delegation of Belarus welcomes the timely 
circulation  by  the  President  of  the  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fifth session of a list of debates to be held in the 
context  of  this  session.  In  our  opinion,  that  practice 
should be retained in the future. Moreover, we believe 
that  it  would  be  useful  for  the  President  to  hold 
consultations  with  Member  States  on  the  selection  of 
topics to be considered.  
Significant  attention  has  begun  to  be  paid  to 

improving 
relationship  with  other 
principal  bodies,  including  the  Security  Council  and 
the  Secretariat.  Monthly  meetings  are  held  with  the 
participation of the President of the Assembly and the 
rotating  presidency  of  the  Security  Council,  during 
which  the  President  of  the  Assembly  regularly  briefs 
members  of  the  Organization.  The  periodic  briefings 
by the Secretary-General on his work in the context of 
informal  plenary  meetings  are  proof  of  the  enhanced 
work  of  the  General Assembly  and  the  importance  of 
its role and status.  

the 
Assembly  itself  are  now  more  transparent  and  receive 
more attention in countries’ mass media. Among other 
things, 
the 
organization  of  meetings  between  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  regional  groups,  which  has 
facilitated  exchanges  of  opinion  on  the  priority  issues 
of the sixty-fifth session, its working methods and the 
interaction  between  Member  States  and  the  President 
and his Office. We believe that that practice should be 
developed in the future.   
transparency  has  facilitated 
the  President  and  of 
The  activities  of 
the  working 
increased 
for 
tool 
important 
to  be  an 

However,  much  still  remains  to  be  done.  The 
delegation  of  Belarus  supports  further  strengthening 
the  role  of  the  President,  improving  the  working 
methods  of  the  Assembly  and  the  mechanisms  for 
selecting  the  Secretary-General  and  modernizing  the 
voting  system,  thereby  ensuring  effectiveness  and 
transparency in the work of the Assembly. We support 
further  analysis  and  review  of  the  implementation  of 
the resolutions on the revitalization of the work of the 
General  Assembly  in  order  to  identify  and  focus  on 
elements that continue to hamper our work. 

The  Republic  of  Belarus  considers  the  activities 
of the Special Committee on the Charter of the United 
Nations  and  on  the  Strengthening  of  the  Role  of  the 
Organization 
the 
revitalization of the work of the General Assembly and 
the  reform  of  the  United  Nations.  We  firmly  believe 
that,  as  a  universal  and  democratic  forum, 
the 
Committee should be at the centre of activities related 
to  the  legal  aspects  of  United  Nations  reform.  The 
delegation of Belarus believes that it is now high time 
to  ensure  the  substantive  content  of  the  work  of  the 
Committee  in  order  to  improve  its  effectiveness  and 
meet  Member  States’  expectations,  namely,  ensuring 
the  legal  elements  of  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of 
the General Assembly and United Nations reform as a 
whole. 
The  delegation  of  Belarus  is  consistent  in  its 

position  that  strengthening  the  role  of  the  General 
Assembly should in no way infringe upon the role and 
powers of the Security Council and the other principle 
organs of the United Nations. Strengthening that role is 
a logical step in the development and democratization 
the  functional 
of 
interaction  between 
the 
the  General 
Economic  and  Social  Council  and 
Assembly and preventing the duplication of work will 
certainly  have  a  positive  impact  on  the  efforts  of  the 
United Nations to give effect to its main principles and 
purposes. 

Many  delegations  have  today  underscored  the 
progress  made  towards  revitalizing  the  work  on  the 
General Assembly. That is certainly a positive element. 
Many  Member  States  have  also  expressed 
their 
readiness to continue to  work jointly on  the issue. All 
that gives us hope that we are on the right track. At the 
same  time,  we  must  not  waste  time.  We  believe  that 
only the joint energetic and effective efforts of Member 
States  will  help  us  to  achieve,  on  the  basis  of  the 
the  United  Nations.  Improving 
the  Security  Council, 
12 

10-67395 
too,  must  endeavour 


United  Nations  Charter,  the  goal  of  strengthening  the 
role  and  status  of  the  General Assembly  and,  thereby, 
that of the entire Organization. 
Mr.  Ang  (Singapore):  Darwin’s  law  of  natural 

selection,  commonly  known  as  the  survival  of  the 
fittest, emphasized the need for constant adaptation and 
evolution by  species to suit the changing environment 
or  face  the  possibility  of  elimination  and  extinction. 
The  General  Assembly, 
to 
demonstrate  its  relevance  and  adapt  to  changes  and 
challenges in the global environment. 

The world faced many global challenges last year. 
Among others, the economic crisis and the influenza A 
(H1N1) pandemic were acute examples of how dangers 
today  have  a  global  reach  and  impact.  Even  as  the 
United Nations debates whether it has a role to play in 
dealing with those crises, it is telling that the delivery 
of 
the  General  Assembly’s  core  expertise  — 
development  assistance  —  has  yet  to  achieve  real 
effectiveness.  The  Least  Developed  Countries  Report 
2010  of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and 
on  
Development,  which  was 
25  November,  showed 
that 
least 
developed  countries  had  doubled  over  the  past  30 
years, with 421 million people living below the poverty 
line  in  2007. That  is  a  sober  reminder  that  the  United 
Nations must do better to meet long-standing and new 
challenges,  as  they  affect  the  struggle  of  the  United 
Nations to find its role in providing global governance 
and  leadership.  The  reform  and  strengthening  of  the 
General Assembly cannot be more timely or urgent.  

We  must  remember  that  we  are  the  United 
Nations. United means that all 192 Member States are 
bound by common goals  and  a shared  vision of peace 
and  security,  sustainable  development  and  human 
rights,  which  make  up  the  three  pillars  of  the  United 
Nations.  The  General  Assembly  should  not  create 
artificial  divisions  between  “them”  and  “us”,  whether 
based  on  region  or  development  status.  We  need  to 
constantly  remind  ourselves  of  the  need  to  work 
towards the common goals we set out to achieve in the 
first  place. We need to  continually  repeat to ourselves 
the necessity for prospering thy neighbour. The recent 
global  economic  crisis  and  A  (H1N1)  pandemic  are 
stark  reminders 
increasingly 
in  an 
interconnected and interdependent world. 

The  word  “nations”  means  that  the  General 
Assembly provides a level playing field for all Member 
just 
published 
the  number  of 
that  we 
live 
10-67395 

A/65/PV.56
States. It places large countries alongside, and on equal 
terms  with,  small  and  medium-sized  ones. The  beauty 
of  universal  multilateralism  lies  in  giving  each  nation 
an  equal  voice.  That  right  to  an  equal  voice  must  be 
preserved.  “United  Nations”  therefore  means  that  all 
nations,  regardless  of  size,  must  pull  together  in 
solidarity  at  all  times.  In  delivering  his  report  on  the 
work  of  the  Organization  (A/65/1)  in  September,  the 
Secretary-General  said 
that  “the  soul  of  global 
governance”  is  “a  collective  stand,  principled  and 
pragmatic,  against  forces 
that  would  divide  us” 
(A/65/PV.11, p. 1). Regardless of which other organizations 
or institutions we belong to, we must continue to proudly 
wear  our  badges  as  Member  States  of  the  United 
Nations,  and  remember  the  reasons  that  first  made  us 
part of it. 

In order to be effective, resolutions passed by the 
Organization  need  teeth,  and  the  General  Assembly 
must  be  empowered  to  ensure  their  implementation. 
Each  year,  we  gather  together  and  spend  many  hours 
seeking  consensus,  which  means  the  lowest  common 
denominator among us; and each year, we go around in 
circles  discussing  the  same  issues  with  little  progress. 
That cannot be the aim of our work. Resolutions should 
have  clear  action  plans  and  realistic  timelines.  Most 
important, there needs to be a responsible commitment 
to  action  on  the  part  of  all  Member  States.  The 
Assembly’s  agenda  should  also  be  reviewed  and 
refreshed  regularly  to  ensure  its  continued  relevance. 
Member States should regularly review resolutions that 
are traditionally introduced in the Assembly, to ensure 
that  the  items  they  address  are  of  continued  relevance 
and importance. 

There has been much talk here about cooperation 
with  other  bodies  such  as  regional  communities, 
associations  and  organizations.  However,  we  should 
first consider whether the United Nations is a valuable 
partner  for  such  organizations  before  we  think  of 
strengthening  partnerships  with  them.  We  need  to  get 
our  own  house  in  order.  The  General  Assembly  must 
add  value  and  concentrate  on  issues  in  which  it 
possesses comparative advantages. This would result in 
greater efficiency in the multilateral process, including 
at the United Nations itself. 

While  we  are  on  the  topic  of  reform,  we  cannot 
ignore that the heart of reform lies in strengthening the 
relationship  between  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security Council. My delegation has stressed on many 
occasions the need for decision-making to be inclusive, 
13 

in 
A/65/PV.56 

participatory  and  representative  of  all  Member  States. 
That  is  the  value  of  the  Assembly,  where  we  are  all 
equals. Under the Charter, the Security Council is part 
of the United Nations and is bound to work towards its 
goals.  The  Council  is  neither  supernumerary  to  the 
United  Nations  nor  a  body  standing 
isolated 
splendour  apart  from  it.  In  order  to  more  effectively 
achieve  its  goals  and  its  duties  to  Member  States,  it 
must  be  transparent  and  inclusive,  with  early  and 
increased  consultation  with,  and  the  participation  of, 
all  Member  States.  Better  cooperation  between  the 
Council  and 
the  Assembly  will  strengthen  our 
capacities and improve the delivery of United Nations 
services to people in need. 

In  tune  with  the  theme  for  this  year,  it  is  my 
delegation’s  hope  that  the  General  Assembly  will 
continue to remain a strong voice in global governance 
for many years to come. In the fight for the survival of 
the  fittest,  the  Assembly  must  go  from  strength  to 
strength  and  become  a  truly  indispensable  global 
institution of the twenty-first century. 

Mr.  Sumi  (Japan):  At  the  outset,  allow  me  to 
express  my  gratitude  to  His  Excellency  Ambassador 
Joseph  Deiss,  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  for 
convening  today’s  meeting  to  discuss  one  of  the  most 
crucial  tasks  on  the  Assembly’s  agenda,  namely,  the 
revitalization  of  its  work.  I  also  wish  to  thank  the 
co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Revitalization of the General Assembly at the previous 
session, Ms.  Sanja Štiglic  and Mr. Jorge Argüello, the 
Permanent Representatives of Slovenia  and Argentina, 
for 
in  document 
A/64/903  and  their  work  on  resolution  64/301.  I  also 
extend  a  warm  welcome  to  the  now  co-Chairs  of  this 
process,  Mr.  Dalius  Čekuolis  and  Mr.  Camillo 
Gonsalves, the Permanent Representatives of Lithuania 
and  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  with  whom  I 
intend  to  cooperate  closely  in  order  to  move  forward 
our work on the most pressing issues. 
The General Assembly, where all Member States 

participate,  is  the  most  representative  organ  of  the 
United  Nations.  Except  under 
the  circumstances 
described in Article 12, paragraph 1, of the Charter of 
the  United  Nations, 
is 
empowered to address all issues and questions that fall 
under the responsibilities assigned to it by the Charter. 
Japan  has  devoted  serious  effort  to  advancing  the 
process  of  revitalizing  the Assembly  and  continues  to 
contribute to the activities directed to that end. 
their  excellent  report  contained 
the  General  Assembly 
14 

Japan  greatly  appreciates 

It  is  our  firm  hope  that  the  relationship  between 
the General Assembly and the other principal organs of 
the  United  Nations  —  the  Security  Council  and  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  —  and  mutual 
coordination  between  them  will  be  further  enhanced 
and  strengthened  as  the  revitalization  process  goes 
forward. 

the  submission  of 
annual  reports  by  the  Security  Council  to  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  regular  consultations  between  the 
Presidents  of  the  Council  and  the  Assembly.  We 
welcomed  this  year’s  report  of  the  Council  (A/65/2), 
prepared  by  Nigeria,  and  commended  that  country’s 
efforts  to  interact  with  non-Council  members  in  the 
report’s  preparation.  As  urged  in  resolution  64/301, 
such  interaction  has  taken  place  more  often  in  recent 
years.  In  addition,  this  year’s  report  was  prepared  in 
line with the Council President’s note (S/2010/507) on 
that body’s working methods. 

In  selecting  the  Secretary-General,  the  United 
Nations  Charter  clearly  provides  distinct  roles  and 
responsibilities  for  the  Council  and  the  Assembly.  In 
that  context,  we  should  focus  our  discussions  on  the 
role  of  the  Assembly  in  ensuring  the  transparency  of 
the  process  and  taking  into  account  past  Assembly 
resolutions and existing practices. In that regard, Japan 
would like to recall paragraph 60 of resolution 51/241, 
which states: 


“Without  prejudice  to  the  prerogatives  of 
the Security Council, the President of the General 
Assembly  may  consult  with  Member  States  to 
identify  potential  candidates  endorsed  by  a 
Member  State  and,  upon  informing  all  Member 
States of the results, may forward those results to 
the Security Council.” 
In addition, in paragraph 20 of resolution 60/286, 

the General Assembly 


“Also  encourage[d]  formal  presentation  of 
candidatures for the position of Secretary-General 
in  a  manner  that  allow[ed]  sufficient  time  for 
interaction  with  Member  States,  and  request[ed] 
candidates  to  present  their  views  to  all  States 
members of the General Assembly”. 
In  following  up  on  resolution  64/301,  it  would  be 
useful to take stock of past experiences with regard to 
the 
those  General  Assembly 
resolutions in order to facilitate our discussion.  
implementation  of 
10-67395 
At 
that 
the  relationship  with 
We  are  well  aware  of 
the  sixty-fourth  session  of 



the  necessity  of 
strengthening the institutional memory of the Office of 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  and  have 
welcomed the efforts deployed by the current and past 
Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly  to  reinforce  the 
role  and  functions  of  the  President  and  the  Office. 
Recognizing  the  importance  of  the  issue,  Japan  is 
prepared  to  join  in  further  discussions  as  to  how  to 
realize  that  objective  in  an  efficient  and  cost-effective 
manner within the proposed programme budget for the 
biennium 2012-2013. 
the  General 

the 
Assembly,  we  also  discussed  strategies 
Assembly  could  apply 
to  raise  public  awareness 
concerning its activities. Possible ideas were presented, 
such  as  strengthening 
the 
Department  of  Public  Information  or 
the  United 
Nations  Correspondents  Association.  However,  it  is 
Japan’s  position  that  the  most  critical  way  to  enhance 
the visibility of the General Assembly is for it to work 
effectively  towards  addressing  the  world’s  challenges. 
At  the  same  time,  we  need  to  provide  the  press  with 
accurate  information  on  topics of  interest  to  it. As  we 
are  all  aware,  the  President  of  the  Security  Council 
participates  in  press  stakeouts  after  almost  every 
consultation. Accordingly,  in  order  to  raise  the  profile 
of the work of the General Assembly, the President of 
the Assembly, the Chairs of the Main Committees and 
other  interested  parties,  such  as  the  facilitators  of 
particular  events  or  resolutions,  should  perhaps  be 
encouraged  to  address  the  press  at  stakeouts  more 
frequently and hold more frequent press conferences. 

Looking  forward  to  constructive  and  fruitful 
discussions in the Ad Hoc Working Group meetings to 
be  convened  by  the  co-facilitators,  my  delegation 
to 
reiterates 
the 
revitalization of the work of the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Mashabane  (South  Africa):  Our  delegation 

aligns  itself  with  the  statement  delivered  by  the 
Permanent Representative of Algeria, who spoke in his 
capacity 
the  Non-Aligned 
Movement’s working group on the revitalization of the 
General Assembly. 

South Africa joins other delegations in expressing 
sincere  gratitude  to  the Ambassadors  of  Slovenia  and 
Argentina,  who  so  ably  facilitated  the  work  of  the Ad 
Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the 
General  Assembly  during  the  sixty-fourth  session. 
its  commitment 
to  contributing 
as 
coordinator 
of 
A/65/PV.56
Their  patient  leadership  made  it  possible  for  the 
Working Group to adopt a substantive resolution on the 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  during  that 
session. 

Similarly, my delegation further wishes to convey 
its congratulations to the Permanent Representatives of 
Lithuania  and  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  on 
their appointment as co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  General Assembly 
for the sixty-fifth session. 
South Africa will continue to participate actively 

in the deliberations of the Working Group, with the aim 
of  making  the  General  Assembly  more  democratic, 
transparent  and  responsive.  My  delegation  will  also 
work with the President in an effort to ensure that the 
Ad Hoc Working Group delivers concrete results. 
The President has set as the theme for our work at 

this  sixty-fifth  session  of 
the  General  Assembly 
“Reaffirming the central  role of the United Nations in 
global  governance”.  As  our  Minister  of  International 
Relations  and  Cooperation,  Ms.  Nkoana-Mashabane, 
said  in  her  statement  during  the  general  debate  in 
September 2010, our delegation  

“supports  the  choice  of  this  theme,  and  we  wish 
to  reiterate  our  belief  in  the  centrality  of  the 
United Nations and the system of multilateralism.  

“Despite  the  challenges  that  face  humanity 
in  the  twenty-first  century,  the  relevance  of  the 
United  Nations  as  a  multilateral  mechanism 
through which a myriad of complex world affairs 
can  be  administered  and  resolved  cannot  be 
overemphasized” (A/65/PV.17, p. 26). 

It is our view that the  full reform of the United 
Nations  cannot  be  achieved  without  the  proper  and 
effective  revitalization  of  the  General Assembly.  This 
body  is  the  chief  deliberative,  policymaking  and 
representative organ of the United Nations and fulfils a 
critical role in the codification of international law. It is 
here  where  the  principle  of  the  sovereign  equality  of 
States, on which the United Nations was founded, finds 
its clearest expression. 
The  General  Assembly  is  the  only  universally 

representative  body  in  the  world  and  it  therefore  has 
the specific responsibility of addressing the challenges 
we  face.  In  our  work  to  revitalize  this  body,  our  aim 
should  be  to  ensure  the  effectiveness  of  the  General 
Assembly in representing the world’s population and in 

10-67395 

15 

A/65/PV.56 

addressing  their  needs,  especially  those  of  the  most 
vulnerable.  

That  is  also  true  with  regard  to  the  role  of  the 
General Assembly  in  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security. There have been several occasions 
over  the  past  years  where  the  General  Assembly  has 
acted  promptly  in  matters  of  international  peace  and 
security.  We  would  urge  the  Assembly  to  remain 
vigilant  in  these  matters  and  to  act  when  the  Security 
Council fails, which can be done without the Assembly 
usurping the mandate of the Council. 

If we are going to be successful in reasserting the 
central  role  of  the  United  Nations,  meaningful  reform 
of  the  Organization,  including  the  Security  Council, 
has  to  be  introduced  as  a  matter  of  urgency.  We 
therefore  call  on  this  body  to  ensure  that  the  reform 
happens sooner than later. 

Turning  to  the  report  (A/64/903)  of  the Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group,  my  delegation  was  pleased  that  the 
sixty-fourth session of the General Assembly was able 
to  adopt  the  report  of  the  Working  Group  along  with 
resolution  64/301,  earlier 
this  year.  We  were 
particularly  pleased  that  the  resolution  is  the  first 
substantive  resolution  on  the  revitalization  of  the 
General Assembly in almost five years. 

The  resolution  adopted  in  September  addresses 
several  areas  of  importance,  namely,  the  role  and 
authority  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  role  of  the 
General Assembly in the selection and appointment of 
the  Secretary-General, 
the 
institutional  memory  of  the  Office  of  the  President  of 
the General Assembly, and the working methods of the 
General Assembly. We can accelerate the revitalization 
of 
to 
recommendations 
implement 
contained  in  the  resolution  in  all  four  of  those 
categories. 

the  General 
Assembly has a central role to play in the appointment 
of  the  Secretary-General.  We  urge  Security  Council 
members 
the  recommendations  we 
adopted in resolution 64/301, especially the decision to 
allow 
time  and 
opportunity  to  engage  with  all  the  candidates  being 
considered  by  the  Security  Council  in  its  selection 
process.  
redoubling  our  efforts 
important 
the  Assembly  by 
the  many 
the  General  Assembly  sufficient 
South  Africa  emphasizes 
the  strengthening  of 
implement 
that 
to 
to 
In  conclusion,  we  believe 
the  four  categories  addressed 

With regard to the forthcoming session of the Ad 
Hoc Working Group, we reiterate the call made by the 
Non-Aligned Movement that the work schedule of the 
Working  Group  needs  to  allow  enough  time  for 
interactive discussion on the issues before it so that  it 
can  conclude  its  work  in  a  timely  manner.  That  will 
allow  the Working  Group  to  move  its  agenda  forward 
and be in a position to adopt a substantial report and a 
substantive  resolution  at  the  conclusion  of  its  work. 
Such a resolution must move the revitalization process 
forward  by  adopting  positions  that  are  concrete  and 
practical. 
In our view, one area that can be improved upon, 

in  addition 
in 
resolution 64/301, is the review of the implementation 
of  General  Assembly  resolutions.  We  have  noted 
improvements  with  regard  to  the  reporting  on  the 
implementation  of  resolutions,  and  we  will  work  with 
our  partners  in  the Working  Group  to  look  at  ways  of 
further  improving  the  implementation  of  resolutions 
and  the  review  of  agenda  items  in  the  sixty-fifth 
session. 

the  General 
Assembly  has  not  always  leveraged  its  strengths  in 
service  of  the  people  we  represent.  It  is  therefore  my 
delegation’s  aim,  in  collaborating  with  our  partners  in 
the Ad Hoc Working Group, to identify areas where the 
work  of  the  General Assembly  can  be  improved  upon 
and made more effective. 
Mr. Park Chul-min (Republic of Korea): Let me 

begin  by  thanking  you,  Mr.  President,  for  convening 
this  debate  and  for  providing  the  membership  with  an 
opportunity 
the 
General Assembly during the sixty-fifth session. 
the  new 

co-Chairs,  Ambassador  Dalius  Čekuolis,  Permanent 
Representative  of  the  Republic  of  Lithuania,  and 
Ambassador 
Permanent 
Representative of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines. 

At  the  same  time,  I  would  like  to  express  our 
gratitude to the two outgoing co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc 
Working  Group, Ambassador  Sanja  Štiglic,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Slovenia,  and  Ambassador  Jorge 
Argüello,  Permanent  Representative  of  Argentina,  for 
their excellent work during the past session. 

The  2004  High-level  Panel  on  Threats, 
Challenges  and  Changes  concluded  that  the  General 
the  revitalization  of 
to  congratulate 
I  would  also 
to  consider 
Gonsalves, 
Camillo 
that 
like 
16 

10-67395 
that 


Assembly had lost its vitality and often failed to focus 
effectively  on  the  most  compelling  issues  of  the  day. 
We should note, however, that the 2005 World Summit 
Outcome  Document  (resolution  60/1)  acknowledged 
the  central  position  of  the  General  Assembly  as  the 
chief  deliberative,  policymaking  and  representative 
organ  of  the  United  Nations.  Indeed,  my  delegation 
believes 
the  General  Assembly  should  be 
revitalized,  so  that  it  can  properly  play  its  intended 
role,  as  acknowledged  in  the  2005  World  Summit 
Outcome Document. 

First,  my  delegation  shares  the  view  that  more 
efforts  are  required  to  thoroughly  review  existing 
resolutions.  Every  year  many  resolutions  are  adopted, 
but  many  of  them  are  not  substantially  different  from 
previous  resolutions.  Many 
texts  have  not  been 
significantly  revised  in  decades. Therefore,  we  should 
examine  what  has  been  achieved  so  far  and  what 
remains to be done. 

In  that  regard,  the  inventory  chart  developed  at 
the  sixty-second  and  sixty-third  sessions  would  be  a 
good base from which to start. My delegation believes 
that, by updating the chart on a regular basis, we would 
be  able  to  easily  identify  areas  that  need  further 
implementation. 
further 

biennialization, 
and 
elimination  of  items  on  the  agenda  of  the  General 
Assembly should be explored in detail. 

Secondly,  my  delegation  supports  the  idea  of 
organizing  the  General  Assembly  agenda  around  a 
number  of  thematic  issues  with  a  view  towards  more 
in-depth discussions. Thematic debates should focus on 
the  most  pressing  contemporary  challenges  to  the 
public 
interest  and  should  produce  more  action-
oriented results. 

Furthermore,  we  would  like  to  encourage  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  to  work  closely 
with  Member  States  to  decide  specific  themes  and  set 
the calendar of thematic debates in a more transparent 
and  effective  manner.  We  would  also  like  to  suggest 
that  the  General Assembly  should  undertake  a  review 
process  examining  past  thematic  debates  so  as  to 
evaluate  how  much  value  has  been  added  so  far. That 
would provide us  with  a guide in preparing the  future 
thematic debates in a more streamlined and productive 
manner. 
triennialization, 
Furthermore, 
possibility 
clustering 
the 
of 
A/65/PV.56
by 
organs 
regular 
through 
strengthening 
the  General  Assembly 
the  authority  and  functionality  of 
Assembly 
Thirdly,  my  delegation  welcomes  the  actions  to 

the 
strengthen 
General 
its 
interrelationships  with  other  principal  United  Nations 
organs, such as the Security Council and the Economic 
and Social Council. 

To  that  end,  the  General  Assembly  needs  to 
coordinate the agendas and thematic debate items of all 
United  Nations 
and 
institutionalized  consultations.  That  would  make  the 
General  Assembly  a  more  meaningful  venue  for 
discussion and also enhance organizational synergy by 
avoiding the duplication and repetition of discussions. 
In  that  connection,  we  would  like  to  encourage 

the  President  of 
to  meet 
periodically with the Secretary-General, the Presidents 
of  the  Security  Council  and  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council,  and  the  Chairs  of  the  Main  Committees  and 
then  share  the  outcomes  of  those  interactions  with 
Member States. In that regard, we support the practical 
initiative  of  the  Secretary-General  to  provide  timely 
briefings  for  the  General  Assembly  on  his  activities 
and the work of the United Nations. 
Fourthly,  having  held  the  presidency  of  the 

the 
General  Assembly  at 
Republic  of  Korea  has  a  particular 
in 
strengthening the role and authority of the Office of the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly.  My  delegation 
believes  that  ensuring  the  effectiveness  of  the  Office, 
including  through  the  strengthening  of  its  institutional 
memory, is important, particularly given the short term 
of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
limited number of long-term staff. 
My  delegation  therefore  supports  the  idea  of  the 

the 
incumbent  President  submitting  a 
President-elect,  including  specific  recommendations 
and lessons learned during the previous session. 

In conclusion, my delegation wishes to stress that 
the revitalization of the work of the General Assembly 
should  be  a  continuous  and  action-oriented  process. 
My  delegation  looks  forward  to  tangible  results  from 
the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of the 
General  Assembly  during  the  current  session,  and  I 
assure  you,  Mr.  President,  of  our  full  cooperation  and 
support 
that 
endeavour. 
its  fifty-sixth  session, 
interest 
successful  completion  of 
report 
to 
for 
the 
10-67395 

17 

As 
A/65/PV.56 


Mr.  Haroon  (Pakistan):  I  wish  to  felicitate 
Mr. Dalius  Čekuolis,  Permanent  Representative  of  the 
Republic  of  Lithuania,  and  Mr.  Camillo  Gonsalves, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines,  for  their  appointment  as  co-Chairs  of  the 
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the 
General  Assembly.  We  assure  them  of  our  fullest 
cooperation in achieving our shared objectives. 

the  principal  deliberative,  policymaking, 
norm-setting  and  only  truly  universal  and  democratic 
body  of  the  United  Nations,  the  General  Assembly’s 
status  should  be  unquestioned.  It  is,  however,  an 
abiding irony that the only universal principal organ of 
the  United  Nations  that  can  be  regarded  the  world 
parliament is  engaged in  a  seemingly  endless exercise 
to  have  its  status  recognized  adequately.  The  realities 
on the ground being what they are, we would be doing 
a  disservice  to  the  General Assembly  by  downplaying 
the  problem  or  by  thinking  that  lip  service  is  a 
substitute for concrete action. 

What  emerges,  inter  alia,  from  the  deliberations 
of the Ad Hoc Working Group on the Revitalization of 
the  General Assembly  is  that  a  number  of  resolutions 
related  to  the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly 
have  been  implemented,  since  their  implementation 
required  either  one-time  action  or  merely  procedural 
adjustments.  That  should  not,  however,  lull  us  into 
believing  that  some  momentous  progress  has  been 
made.  Polemics  and  palliatives  notwithstanding,  the 
fact remains that the General Assembly does not enjoy 
its rightful place in the scheme of things. 

At  the  same  time,  the Assembly  is  quite  content 
with  the  pro  forma  exercise  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working 
Group’s  deliberations,  which  culminate  in  an  annual 
resolution,  while  practical  progress  remains  elusive. 
That brings us to the heart of the matter, which is that, 
in  the  absence  of  genuine  political  will,  General 
Assembly revitalization will continue to be an exercise 
replete  with  clichés,  while  offering  little  in  terms  of 
substance.  One  cannot  help  discern  a  perennial 
perceptual  gap,  if  not  a  chasm,  between  different 
stakeholders.  While  the  General  Assembly  rightly 
complains  of  erosion  in  its  status  and  power,  the 
Security  Council  evidently  feels  that  the  General 
Assembly should not impinge upon its domain.  

Some  issues  that  fall  entirely  within  the  General 
Assembly’s  domain  have  now  been  taken  up  by  the 
Security Council. Some feel that the General Assembly 
in 
the  various  resolutions 
should  conform  to  a  corporate  model  of  productivity 
and  efficiency  in  order  to  be  considered  a  worthwhile 
organization.  Needless  to  say,  that  is  not  why  the 
United  Nations  was  formed  or  conceived.  Differences 
in  perception  and  difficulties  notwithstanding,  the 
General  Assembly  alone  offers  a 
forum  whose 
deliberations can boast of being of universal character. 
In  today’s  highly  interconnected  and  interdependent 
world  it  is  all  the  more  necessary  to  strengthen  the 
General Assembly and ensure that participation in this 
body is equitable and across the board. 

With regard to the implementation of resolutions 
related  to  revitalization,  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group 
should  concentrate  on  areas  that  require  action. There 
should  be  a  special  unit  in  the  Office  of  the  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  to  assess  the  status  of  the 
implementation  of 
the 
intersessional period. 

The  much  vaunted  rationalization  of  the  General 
Assembly’s  work  should  be  approached  with  caution. 
The General Assembly’s agenda should remain open to 
the  insertion of new items and new thoughts. Divisive 
and arbitrary concepts like the sunset clause should be 
eschewed  and  removed.  In  any  event,  no  item  should 
be considered for deletion from an agenda without the 
express agreement of concerned States. 

As  for  the  selection  of  the  Secretary-General, 
there  is  a  need  to  find  a  middle  road  between  the 
General Assembly’s  desire  to  have  a  greater  role  and 
the  requirements  of  Article  97  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter.  We  must  remember  that  whoever  makes  the 
appointment  ultimately  should  be  sure  that  the  person 
concerned will reflect on what is being put before him. 

On the question of strengthening the Office of the 
President of the General Assembly, we have noted with 
interest,  Sir,  the  recommendations  given  by  your 
predecessor,  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki.  It  would  be 
beneficial  if  those  issues  were  examined  by  a  group 
consisting  of  the  outgoing,  incumbent  and  future 
General  Assembly  Presidents.  In  any  event, 
the 
President  of  the  premier  United  Nations  organ  should 
not  be  handicapped  by  inadequate  budgetary  and 
human  resources. At  the  same  time,  strengthening  the 
institutional  memory  of  the  Office  of  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  should  not  unduly  constrain 
flexibility  in  the  selection  of  staff  by  the  incoming 
President of the General Assembly. 
18 

10-67395 
A/65/PV.56



In conclusion, I would like to stress that General 
Assembly  revitalization  should  be  a  high  priority  for 
members  of  the  General  Assembly  in  general  and 
developing countries, including my own, in particular. 
We are convinced that a balanced relationship between 
the various organs of the United Nations will enable us 
to  move  beyond  procedural  wrangling  and  tackle  the 
vexing  questions  that  beset  humanity,  including  peace 
and  security,  disarmament,  development,  poverty 
alleviation,  disease  control,  climate  change  and  the 
many other issues that daunt the world today and make 
us believe that it will never change. 
Mrs.  Morgan  Sotomayor  (Mexico)  (spoke  in 

Spanish):  Mexico  welcomes  the  report  of  the Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly  (A/64/903)  and  notes  the  excellent  work  of 
the  co-Chairs,  Permanent  Representatives  Ms.  Sanja 
Štiglic  of  Slovenia  and  Mr.  Jorge  Argüello  of 
Argentina.  Similarly,  my  delegation  welcomes  the 
adoption  of  resolution  64/301  in  September,  in  which 
we  established  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Revitalization  of  the  General Assembly  for  the  sixty-
fifth  session  of 
the  Assembly.  We  congratulate 
Mr. Camillo  Gonsalves,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  and  Mr.  Dalius 
Čekuolis,  Permanent  Representative  of  Lithuania,  on 
their appointment as co-Chairs for the current session. 

Mexico devotes special attention to strengthening 
the  General  Assembly  as  the  universal  body  par 
excellence  and  the  main  forum  for  the  adoption  of 
international  standards.  It  is  certain  that  revitalizing 
and strengthening this body require the political will of 
Member States as well as their commitment to produce 
substantive  results  in  the  short  term.  My  delegation 
notes that there has been progress made in that area. It 
is  disturbing,  however,  that  important  issues  remain 
unresolved in the area of revitalizing and strengthening 
the  General  Assembly.  The  important  contribution, 
provided by the co-Chairs in their report (A/63/959) on 
the implementation status of the resolutions in that area 
has not been used at all. In that respect we support the 
initiative  to  carry  out  a  comprehensive  review  of  the 
inventory  so  as  to  identify,  first  of  all,  the  provisions 
that  have  been  implemented  with  respect  to  the 
revitalization  of  the  General Assembly  and,  secondly, 
those  awaiting  implementation,  including  the  reasons 
why  they  have  not  been  implemented. That  should  be 
done in order to avoid further delay in actions aimed at 
It 
is  also 
enhancing  the  role  of  this  important  United  Nations 
organ. 

Mexico  believes  that  it  is  important  that  the 
agenda of the General Assembly reflect the priorities of 
the international community. Rationalizing  the agenda 
items of the General Assembly would make it easier to 
distribute  the  workload  more  efficiently,  both  in  the 
plenary  and  the  Main  Committees.  That  goal  can  be 
achieved  only  if  it  is  agreed  to  by  the  General 
Assembly as a whole, because it requires that Member 
States express their willingness to reduce appropriately 
the number of items that are dealt with in this forum. 

We  reiterate  our  view  that  one  of  the  most 
feasible ways to achieve that goal would be to address 
agenda  items  every  two  or  three  years,  and  it  would 
seem  worthwhile  therefore  to  continue  that  exercise. 
That approach would of course also depend on the will 
of the membership as a whole. 
to  continue  analyzing 

important 
innovative  proposals  to  improve  the  manual  voting 
method within the Organization so as to ensure that the 
process  is  always  reliable  and  credible  and  that  the 
vote  remains  confidential.  Another  aspect  we  must 
continue  to  work  on  in  order  to  move  forward 
decisively  is  the  relationship  between  the  General 
Assembly and the other principal organs of the United 
Nations.  Greater  and  more  efficient  interaction  and 
coordination  among 
the 
Security Council and the Economic and Social Council 
is  needed,  especially  in  areas  that  affect  international 
peace and security. 

With respect to the selection and appointment of 
the  Secretary-General,  my  delegation  feels  that  the 
process  should  be  carried  out  more  openly,  more 
transparently and with the full and active participation 
of  Member  States.  However,  the  reality  that  the 
Security  Council  holds  the  power  with  respect  to  the 
important decision of selecting a candidate for that post 
and  that  the  General  Assembly  simply  sanctions  that 
decision must be acknowledged. Pursuant to Article 97 
of the Charter and relevant resolutions adopted in that 
area, the appointment of the Secretary-General falls to 
the  General Assembly,  which  takes  that  decision  after 
listening 
the  Security 
Council. 

To  fully  comply  with  that  decision,  the  General 
Assembly must have prior and extensive knowledge of 
all  of  the  candidates  with  respect  to  their  professional 
the  General  Assembly, 
to 
the  recommendation  of 
10-67395 

19 
dialogue 
that  would 
enable 
My  delegation 
is  prepared 
to  continue 
that  has  not  been 
A/65/PV.56 

experience,  depth  of  knowledge  and  commitment,  as 
well  as  their  vision  of  the  United  Nations  and  what  it 
represents.  Unfortunately, 
the 
practice. Paragraph 14 of resolution 64/301 states that 
the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  at  the  sixty-fifth  session 
should  continue  its  consideration  of  the  revitalization 
of  the  role  of  the  General  Assembly  in  the  selection 
and  appointment  of  the  Secretary-General.  Mexico 
believes that it is important to achieve swift, clear and 
concrete  progress  in  that  regard,  which  is  one  of  the 
main  reasons  for  the  establishment  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working Group. 

to 
cooperate  in  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Revitalization of the General Assembly, with a view to 
focusing  further  on  elements  that  strengthen  the  most 
representative and universal organ that we the Member 
States  have.  That  would  promote  a  broader  and  more 
constructive 
the 
Organization  to  respond  in  a  more  effective  and 
legitimate  manner  to  the  global  challenges  facing  the 
international community today. 

Mr.  Simanjuntak  (Indonesia):  Allow  me  to 
deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the  Permanent 
Representative of Indonesia, Ambassador Hasan Kleib. 

Our  deliberations  today  are  relevant  and  in  sync 
with the theme of the current session, “Reaffirming the 
central 
in  global 
governance”, which my delegation endorses. 

My  delegation  wishes  to  align  itself  with  the 
statements made earlier by the Ambassador of Algeria, 
as  Non-Aligned  Movement  coordinator  on  this  issue, 
and by the Ambassador of Viet Nam, on behalf of the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations. 

Indonesia  would  like  to  welcome  the  recent 
appointment  of  Ambassador  Dalius  Čekuolis of 
Lithuania and Ambassador Camillo Gonsalves of Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines as co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  the  sixty-fifth  session.  We  congratulate 
them  on 
to 
resolutely assist them in their undertaking. 

Our  endeavour  to  revitalize  the  work  of  the 
General Assembly  has  spanned  a  period  of  more  than 
two  decades.  We  should  build  upon  the  achievements 
and  make  progress  based  on 
the  constructive 
compromises we have made to reach consensus on the 
their  appointment  and  stand  ready 
the  United  Nations 
role  of 

many  converging  issues  concerning  the  Assembly’s 
reinvigoration. 

In  that  regard,  we  would  like  to  commend  the 
work of the previous co-Chairs of the Ad Hoc Working 
Group,  the  Permanent  Representatives  of  Argentina 
and  Slovenia,  for  successfully  steering  the  dynamic 
process in the Working Group that led to the adoption 
of resolution 64/301. That reflects the zeal of Member 
States  to  continue  to  underscore  the  gravity  of  the 
reform  process  of  the  General  Assembly,  a  critical 
principal  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  The  resolution 
highlights  elements  that  are  important  to  further 
advancing  the  work  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group 
during this session. We should focus on those elements 
at this session. 

First,  it  is  vital  to  carry  out  the  mandate  of  the 
Working  Group,  which  in  particular  has  been  referred 
to  as  undertaking  a  comprehensive  review  of  the 
inventory contained in the annex to the report of the Ad 
Hoc  Working  Group  submitted  at  the  sixty-third 
session  (A/63/959).  The  inventory  charts  annexed  to 
the  annual  reports  of  the  Working  Group  have  been  a 
very useful tool, which we should continue to use. We 
should  also  continue  our  work  to  translate  into  action 
the  many  resolutions  and  decisions  that  have  been 
agreed on the subject of the Assembly’s revitalization. 

Secondly,  the  Working  Group  has  a  mandate  to 
identify  further  ways  to  enhance  the  role,  authority, 
effectiveness and efficiency of the Assembly, inter alia 
by building on previous resolutions and evaluating the 
status  of  their  implementation.  It  should  be  ensured 
that all agreed resolutions in this area are implemented. 
Where they have not been fulfilled, the Working Group 
should  further  identify  gaps,  with  a  view  to  finding 
ways  and  means 
to  address 
the  challenges  and 
obstacles to their implementation. 

Thirdly,  Indonesia  welcomes  the  positive  intent 
of the resolution that requests the Secretary-General to 
submit  proposals  in  the  context  of  the  proposed 
programme  budget  for  the  biennium  2012-2013,  to 
review  the  budget  allocation  for  the  Office  of  the 
President of the General Assembly in accordance with 
existing  procedures. That  is  in  line  with  the  efforts  to 
strengthen the institutional memory and function of the 
Office  of  the  President  by  providing  it  with  separate 
and dedicated resources. 
Fourthly, the report emphasizes the importance of 

balance  among  the  principal  organs,  in  particular 
10-67395 
20 



between the Assembly and the Security Council. It also 
points  out  that  the  discussion  on  the  relationship 
between  the  two  organs  can  be  considered  in  the 
context  of  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security 
Council  reform  in  informal  plenary  meetings  of  the 
General  Assembly.  That  recommendation 
is  very 
realistic  and  sensible. As  the  issue  of  the  relationship 
between  those  two  important  organs  has  been  dealt 
with  as  one  of  key  issues  in  the  debate  on  Security 
Council  reform,  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Revitalization of the General Assembly could focus on 
other important issues before it. 

Lastly,  the  report  touches  upon  the  issue  of  the 
appointment of Secretaries-General. We recognize that 
the  Assembly  has  an  instrumental  role  in  making  the 
process of selection transparent, inclusive and open for 
consultation  by  the  wider  membership.  While  the 
existing  selection  process  has  produced  distinguished 
and  commendable  Secretaries-General,  that  does  not 
mean that the process itself is perfect. In giving effect 
to  democratic  principles,  there  is  always  room  for 
improvement.  Without  prejudice  to  Article  97  of  the 
United Nations Charter, we share the views on the need 
for  substantive  interaction  by  candidates  with  the 
Assembly,  in  which  due  regard  will  continue  to  be 
given to regional rotation. 

In  conclusion,  let  me  assure  you,  Mr.  President, 
that Indonesia, for its part, is committed to continuing 
to  work  constructively  with  all  delegations  in  our 
common  efforts 
role,  authority, 
effectiveness and efficiency of the General Assembly. 

Mr.  Loulichki  (Morocco)  (spoke  in  French): At 
the  outset,  my  delegation  would  like  to  commend  the 
efforts  undertaken  by  Mr.  Jorge  Argüello,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Argentina,  and  Ms.  Sanja  Štiglic, 
Permanent Representative of Slovenia, in their capacity 
as  co-Chairs  of  the  Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the 
Revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  would  also 
like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  their  successors, 
Ambassador 
Permanent 
Representative  of  Lithuania,  and Ambassador  Camillo 
Gonsalves, Permanent Representative of Saint Vincent 
and the Grenadines.  

My delegation associates itself with the statement 
made  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Algeria  on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

of 
Today’s  debate  has  a  central  place  in  the  reform 
the  major 
the  United  Nations. 
It  addresses 
to  enhance 
Čekuolis, 
Dalius 
the 
A/65/PV.56
their  roles, 
challenges before us, namely, the balance between the 
different  United  Nations  organs, 
the 
responsibility  and  efficiency  of  the  General Assembly 
in  the  context  of  its  fundamental  mission  and  the 
modernization of its working methods.  
The  General Assembly  has  a  central  role  to  play 

as 
the  main  deliberative  organ,  with  particular 
responsibility for steering the Organization, developing 
international cooperation on economic, social, cultural 
and  educational  matters  and  establishing  norms  and 
codifying international law. Over the past 20 years, the 
Assembly  has  adopted  various  measures  to  strengthen 
its role and its authority, as well as that of its President. 
We welcome those developments.  

The  General Assembly  has  also  devoted  itself  to 
refocusing its work in order to better respond to current 
and  future  challenges  facing  it,  namely,  strengthening 
international  peace  and  security,  combating  terrorism, 
strengthening  the  means  to  prevent  crises  and  combat 
their  recurrence,  and  preventing  the  destruction  of  the 
environment  and 
its  biodiversity.  The  resolutions 
adopted to date by the General Assembly have allowed 
us to make some progress towards the revitalization of 
the  General Assembly.  However,  a  great  deal  remains 
to be done. 

Improving the practices and working methods of 
the  Main  Committees,  strengthening  the  role  and 
institutional  memory  of  the  Office  of  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly,  consolidating  the  role  and 
authority of the President and further rationalizing the 
agenda  of 
the  General  Assembly  are  strategic 
objectives on which we must continue to work to make 
the  Organization’s  primary  deliberative  body  strong, 
credible,  effective  and  up  to  the  task  of  meeting  the 
new  challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century.  In  that 
pursuit,  we  should  of  course  fully  respect 
the 
provisions of the Charter  and the balance between the 
General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  as  the 
body  with 
the 
maintenance of international peace and security. 
While  strengthening  the  role  and  impact  of  the 

General  Assembly 
and 
organizational  measures,  it  will  also  require  that  the 
decisions  of  summits  and  special  sessions  are 
implemented effectively, beginning with those relating 
to the Millennium Development Goals and the Middle 
East. 
responsibility 
the  primary 
structural 
calls 
for 
for 
10-67395 

21 
is 
to 
in  order 
in  multilateralism,  which 
A/65/PV.56 

Greater  efforts  need  to  be  made  in  the  area  of 

rationalization 
to  bridge  gaps,  avoid 
duplication  and  strengthen  the  effectiveness  of  the 
General Assembly,  while  bearing  in  mind  the  need  to 
minimize the financial burden on developing countries. 
My  country  remains  convinced 
that  under  your 
leadership  this  year,  Mr.  President,  which  you  have 
focused on the overarching theme of international good 
governance,  Member  States  will  continue  to  devote 
greater effort to advancing the process of revitalization. 

We  must  not  lose  sight  of  the  fact  that,  through 
the  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
reform  of  the  Security  Council,  the  international 
re-establish  and  strengthen 
community  hopes 
confidence 
the  only 
framework  capable  of  ensuring  that  the  legitimate 
interests and aspirations of all of the Member States of 
the  United  Nations  are  taken  into  account  in  an 
inclusive, differentiated and balanced way. 

Mr. Salsabili (Islamic Republic of Iran): I should 
like to express my gratitude to you, Mr. President, for 
according  due  attention 
longstanding  and 
important  issue  of  revitalizing  the  General  Assembly 
by  placing  it  at  the  core  of  the  agenda  for  the 
Assembly’s work at its sixty-fifth session. 

While  my  delegation  associates  itself  with  the 
statement  delivered  by  the  Permanent  Representative 
of Algeria on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement,  I 
should also like to elaborate on a few points in greater 
depth.  
The  fact  that  a  great  number  of  United  Nations 

resolutions  deal  with  the  revitalization  of  the  role  and 
authority of the General Assembly clearly demonstrates 
the importance that the general membership attaches to 
enhancing  the  role  and  authority  of  this  organ.  We 
should 
to  explore 
concrete ways and means to fully realize the functions 
and  powers  of  the  General  Assembly  as  stipulated  in 
the Charter of the United Nations. 

With  regard  to  the  relationship  between  the 
General Assembly and the other principal organs of the 
United Nations, the particular relationship between the 
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  has  been  a  matter 
of  extensive  debate,  especially  in  the  context  of  the 
various efforts to reform the United Nations over many 
years. A good number of General Assembly resolutions 
set  out  certain  criteria  to  clarify  the  relationship 
therefore  redouble  our  efforts 
the 
to 

in 
step 
areas 
beyond 
definitions 
functions  and 
between  these  two  important  principal  organs  of  the 
United Nations. 

The  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  itself  confers 
important 
responsibilities  on  both 
organs.  However,  we  have  seen  a  constant  and 
progressive  encroachment  by  the  Security  Council 
upon  the  functions,  powers  and  prerogatives  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  other  organs,  in  areas  ranging 
from legislation and administrative issues to budgetary 
matters.  In  that  respect,  forming  a  study  group  to 
engage on all aspects of this issue could be considered 
as  a  positive 
towards  understanding  and 
addressing 
the  concerns  of  Member  States.  Of 
particular  relevance  here  are  the  practices  of  the 
Security  Council  of  setting  norms,  making  laws  and 
establishing 
its 
competence.  Let  me  recall  paragraph  1, Article  13,  of 
the Charter, in which the General Assembly, as the sole 
universal  and  representative  organ  comprising  all 
Member  States  of  the  United  Nations,  is  tasked  with 
the  progressive  development  of  international  law  and 
its codification. 

During the previous session, the President of the 
General  Assembly  submitted  a  valuable  report  on 
strengthening  the  institutional  memory  of  his  Office. 
While  we  emphasize  that  the  institutional  memory  of 
his  Office  has  a  profound  link  with  other  substantial 
issues at hand, it is noticeable and quite alarming that 
the  budget  of  that  Office  has  not  increased  since 
1998 — a period during which the budget of the United 
Nations  increased  three-fold.  While  any  voluntary 
funds  for  correcting  this  budget  situation  would  be 
appreciated, the need for funding to be predictable and 
sustainable and the need to preserve the impartiality of 
the Office oblige us to ask that a greater proportion of 
the regular budget be dedicated to the Office. 
According  to  Article  10  of  the  Charter  of  the 

United  Nations, 
the  Assembly  may  discuss  any 
questions within the scope of the Charter or relating to 
the powers and functions of any organs provided for in 
the  Charter.  Since 
the  process  of  selecting  and 
appointing  the  Secretary-General  is  not  outside  the 
scope of the Charter, it can be raised and discussed in 
the Assembly as one of this body’s basic roles. 

The appointment of the Secretary-General, which 
is  supposed  to  be  approved  by  the  authority  or 
agreement  of 
the  General  Assembly,  should  be 
arranged  through  a  process  or  a  systematic  series  of 
22 

10-67395 
Paragraphs  56 


actions. In our view, the great majority of the Members 
of the Organization share a strong will to articulate and 
improve  the  selection  procedure  of  the  Secretary-
General through granting the General Assembly a more 
meaningful and determining role. 

resolution  51/241 
to  61  of 
prescribed  a  set  of  provisions  that,  if  implemented, 
would  strengthen  the  role  of  the  General Assembly  in 
the  selection  of  the  Secretary-General.  In  particular, 
paragraph  56  reaffirms  the  need  for  the  process  to  be 
made  more  transparent.  In  fact,  that  is  a  major  matter 
for  the  entire  international  community,  which  regards 
the Secretary-General as its highest representative. His 
legitimacy and credibility should therefore be based on 
the widest support of its members. 

Finally,  as  part  of  the  comprehensive  reform  of 
the  United  Nations,  the  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly  is  a  dynamic  and  continuous  process.  We 
should  remain  committed  and  constructive  throughout 
this ongoing exercise, with a view to strengthening the 
role  and  authority  of  the  Assembly  as  the  chief 
deliberative, policymaking and representative organ of 
the United Nations. 

Mr.  Dabbashi  (Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke 
in  Arabic): At  the  outset,  I  wish  to  align  myself  with 
the statement delivered earlier by the representative of 
Algeria  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  on 
the  functions  and  matters  assigned  to  the  General 
Assembly under the Charter. I also wish to emphasize 
the need for the General Assembly to fully carry out its 
mandate. We  should  all  work  together  to  put  a  halt  to 
the Security Council’s encroachment on the mandate of 
the General Assembly, and even enhance that mandate. 

Unfortunately,  we  have  seen  how  the  end  of  the 
Cold  War  has  served  as  justification  for  the  Security 
Council  to  encroach  upon  the  mandate  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  to  marginalize  its  role  in  important 
matters, such as the selection of the Secretary-General, 
the  admission  of  new  members  and  other  matters 
relating  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security.  That  is  unacceptable  in  the  light  of  the 
increasing  changes  in  the  international  scene  in  all 
areas. 

We  welcome  the  establishment  of  the  Ad  hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly.  We  believe  it  should  focus  on  considering 
ways  to  implement  General Assembly  resolutions  and 
end  the  encroachment  on  its  mandate  and  functions. 
A/65/PV.56
the  Charter 
that 
limit 
resolutions  of 
resolutions.  The 
The  Articles  of 
The  Assembly’s  functions  should  be  enhanced  and 
expanded  so  that  it  is  the  main  body  to  adopt 
international 
the 
General  Assembly  should  be  binding  on  all  Member 
States  and  all  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  including 
the Security Council, which should ultimately serve as 
a  tool  for  the  implementation  of  the  Assembly’s 
resolutions. General Assembly resolutions are the most 
legitimate  resolutions  in  the  United  Nations  system 
because the Assembly is the most representative body. 
It  is  therefore  a  world  parliament  of  sorts,  and  should 
be  the  supreme  legislative  body  to  which  all  States 
submit. 

the 
functions  of  the  General Assembly  should  be  changed 
so  that  the Assembly  is  not  held  hostage  to  decisions 
adopted  by  the  Security  Council  on  certain  issues. 
Subjecting the will of 192 States to the decisions of the 
five  permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council  is  a 
situation that should not be allowed to continue. That is 
the  only  way  of  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security. 

In  conclusion,  Libya,  which  was  honoured  to 
preside  over  the  previous  session  of  the  General 
Assembly, feels that there is an urgent need to support 
the  Office  of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly, 
both  in  terms  of  financial  and  human  resources 
support. Given the various financial obligations of the 
past few years, the current resources are insufficient to 
cover  the  expenses  of  the  Office.  The  State  presiding 
over  the  General  Assembly  therefore  finds  itself 
financing  the  activities  of  the  General  Assembly.  In 
short,  we  should  increase  the  financial  and  human 
resources devoted to the Office of the President of the 
General Assembly. 

Mr. Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My  delegation  aligns 
itself with the statement made by the representative of 
Algeria on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  also 
welcomes  the  appointments  of  Ambassador  Camillo 
Gonsalves, Permanent Representative of Saint Vincent 
and the Grenadines, and Ambassador Dalius Čekuolis, 
Permanent  Representative  of 
the  Republic  of 
Lithuania, as the new co-Chairs of the Ad hoc Working 
Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  General Assembly. 
Allow  me  also  to  acknowledge  the  work  done  by 
Ambassador  Sanja  Štiglic,  Permanent  Representative 
10-67395 

23 

and  Ambassador 
the  General  Assembly.  A 
A/65/PV.56 

of  Slovenia, 
Jorge  Arguëllo, 
Permanent Representative of Argentina, as co-Chairs of 
the Group during the sixty-fourth session. 

The  previous  session  revealed  the  full  validity 
and importance of the issues dealt with by the Working 
Group. Those include the selection and appointment of 
the  Secretary-General,  the  role  and  authority  of  the 
General Assembly,  budgetary  matters,  the  relationship 
between the General Assembly and the other organs of 
the  United  Nations  and  improving  the  Assembly’s 
working  methods.  Those  issues,  which  continue  to  be 
part of the Group’s deliberations during the sixty-fifth 
session,  should  be  addressed  in  a  comprehensive 
manner. 

The  selection  and  appointment  of  the  Secretary-
General  is  a  fundamental  matter  in  terms  of  the 
revitalization  of 
few 
proposals were made on this issue during the previous 
session.  My  delegation  would  like  to  emphasize  the 
responsibility  that  the  General  Assembly  should  have 
in  that  regard.  Venezuela  believes  that  the  monopoly 
exercised  by  the  Security  Council  in  electing  the 
Secretary-General  is  an  anti-democratic  practice  that 
does  not  enable  effective  participation  by  the  General 
Assembly 
the  decision-making  process.  The 
selection process must be inclusive and transparent and 
involve  the  General  Assembly  at  every  stage  of  the 
process. 

Likewise, my delegation would like to emphasize 
the  need  for  the  Secretariat  to  act  in  accordance  with 
the  terms    of  the  Charter  and  the Assembly’s  rules  of 
procedure  and  on  the  basis  of  what  is  agreed  and 
adopted  by  Member  States.  That  would  guarantee 
credibility  and  legitimacy  for  the  Organization,  but 
also  for  the  Secretary-General  as  he  carries  out  his 
functions. 

Complaints  have  been  raised  in  the  Working 
Group on various occasions with regard to the need to 
halt 
the  Security  Council 
encroaching  upon  issues  that  are  solely  within  the 
purview of the General Assembly, thereby minimizing 
the role of the Assembly relative to that of the Council. 
Not everything that happens in the world is a threat to 
international  peace  and  security,  and  not  everything 
should  be  handled  and  controlled  by  the  Security 
Council.  
Skewed  perspectives  lead  to  skewed  responses. 

Only the General Assembly can devise comprehensive 
the  harmful 
trend  of 
in 
to 
in 
regard 
role  of 
Mr.  Feleke  (Ethiopia):  As  “Reaffirming 
approaches  to  situations  that  deserve  much  more  than 
just responses divorced from reality as it is experienced 
on the ground.  

Strengthening  the  General  Assembly  requires 
enabling  it  to  fully  exercise  its  powers  in  the  area  of 
international  peace  and  security  as  set  out  in Articles 
10  through  14  of  the  United  Nations  Charter.  The 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  welcomes 
the 
progress  achieved  by  resolution  64/301,  adopted  in 
September of last year. We are prepared to expand the 
Group’s  work,  especially  with 
the 
implementation  of  the  resolutions  that  have  been 
adopted. We can only vote effectively if we analyze the 
true  causes  that  have  hampered  their  implementation 
and if those responsible for the lack of implementation 
meet  their  responsibilities  and  commitments  with  a 
view to success in genuinely strengthening the General 
Assembly.  

The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela once again 
pledges  its  full  cooperation  and  willingness  to  work 
with the President and the two co-facilitators. 

the 
in  global 
central 
governance”  is  the  theme  of  the  sixty-fifth  session  of 
the  General  Assembly,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
take this opportunity once again to emphasize the need 
to  revitalize  the  role  and  authority  of  the  General 
Assembly 
the  multidimensional 
challenges  that  the  global  community  faces  today.  In 
that connection, Mr. President, Ethiopia fully supports 
the timely and appropriate reaffirmation of the central 
role of the United Nations and the priorities set for this 
session under your presidency. 

the 
My  delegation  aligns 
statement  delivered  by  the  Permanent  Representative 
of Algeria on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

Ethiopia  strongly  believes  that  there  is  a  shared 
sense  of  purpose  and  expectation  among  Member 
States that the General Assembly will be revitalized to 
assume,  as  it  should,  its  rightful  responsibility  as  the 
chief  deliberative,  policymaking  and  representative 
organ of the United Nations. Enhancing the role of the 
General Assembly is a matter of urgent and paramount 
importance  if  the  Organization  is  to  tackle  global 
challenges  such  as  poverty,  climate  change,  conflict 
and  other  pressing  concerns  facing  the  international 
community. 
the  United  Nations 
itself  fully  with 
addressing 
24 

10-67395 



We also believe that the role and authority of the 
General Assembly  in  setting  norms  across  the  United 
Nations  system,  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  of 
the  United  Nations  Charter,  has  to  be  preserved  and 
enhanced. In that regard, the growing encroachment of 
the  Security  Council  upon  the  purview  of  the  General 
Assembly  is  a  concern  for  many  States,  including 
mine.  It  is  obvious  that  this  undesirable  trend  in  the 
Security Council derives from progressively redefining 
the  scope  and  nature  of  threats  to  international  peace 
and security.  It is high time that we reverse that trend 
and restore the General Assembly to its rightful place, 
enabling it to address issues that fall within its domain. 

Moreover,  the  role  of  the  General  Assembly  in 
the process of selecting the Secretary-General is not in 
keeping with the status of the General Assembly. There 
is  a  widely  held  view  that  the  process  does  not  offer 
for 
sufficient  opportunity 
the 
membership 
to  select 
the  Secretary-General.  My 
delegation  is  therefore  of  the  view  that  undertaking  a 
comprehensive  review  of  the  Assembly’s  role  in  that 
process is timely and appropriate. 

As  the  issue  of  the  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly is a political process, the commitment of all 
Member States and, more important, engaging political 
will  at  the  highest  levels  are  critically  important  to 
achieving  our  desired  goal  as  a  matter  of  priority.  In 
that  respect,  in  order  to  bring  about  tangible  progress 
in  moving 
the  Assembly’s  revitalization  process 
forward, it is important to focus on urgent and specific 
issues,  including  an  assessment  of  the  status  of 
implementation  of  past  General  Assembly  resolutions 
on revitalization. Also, a priority must be to streamline  
the  majority  of 
A/65/PV.56
emerging 
issues, 
including 
the Assembly’s  agenda  to  focus  on  the  most  pressing 
issues  and  those  of  the  greatest  relevance  to  the 
membership and the international community. 

The  holding  of  thematic  debates  on  issues  of 
international  significance  and  interest  to  the  United 
Nations  should  continue  in  the  course  of  this  session. 
My  delegation  is  of  the  view  that,  in  order  to  avoid 
overlapping  and  duplication  of  discussions  across  the 
Organization, 
the 
maintenance of international peace and security, should 
deserve  our  utmost  attention  in  setting  the  agenda. As 
has  been  stated  by  Member  States  on  numerous 
occasions, when thematic debates lead to the adoption 
of  resolutions,  ideas  proposed  by  Member  States 
during  thematic  discussions  need  to  be  incorporated 
properly in the resolutions. 

In  conclusion,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
underline  that  improving  the  working  methods  of  the 
Assembly with a view to strengthening its role remains 
an  urgent  priority.  The  effective  and  efficient 
implementation of the Charter-mandated functions and 
responsibilities  of  the  General  Assembly  has  a  direct 
relevance  and  credibility.  Due 
bearing  on 
consideration 
to 
improving 
the  Assembly 
conducts its business. 
The President (spoke in French): We have heard 

the last speaker in this debate. The Assembly has thus 
concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of  agenda 
items 117 and 118. 



  The meeting rose at 12.40 p.m. 
therefore  be  accorded 
the  methods  whereby 
its 
should 
10-67395 

25 
