
A/65/PV.53
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

53rd plenary meeting 
Monday, 29 November 2010, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 
  The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m. 






Agenda item 37 
Question of Palestine 







  Report of the Committee on the Exercise  
of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian 
People (A/65/35) 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/65/380 
and Add.1) 
  Draft resolutions (A/65/L.14, A/65/L.15, 
A/65/L.16, A/65/L.17 and A/65/L.24) 
The President (spoke in French): We meet today 

to  address  the  painful  and  persistent  question  of 
Palestine.  Today,  29  November,  we  also  observe  the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People.  For  that  occasion,  I  addressed  the  Committee 
on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the 
Palestinian  People 
the 
sustained  and  resolute  commitment  of  the  United 
Nations  General  Assembly  to  the  Palestinian  people, 
the peoples of the region and the peace process. 

It is in that same spirit of firm determination that 
I  open  the  debate  on  the  question  of  Palestine  this 
afternoon. As the Assembly knows, 29 November is the 
day on which, in 1947, the General Assembly adopted 
resolution  181  (II),  which  divided  the  territory  known 
as  mandatory  Palestine  into  two  States;  one  Jewish, 
one Arab. 
this  morning. 
recalled 
I 
then, 
Since 
the  General  Assembly 

has 
consistently  ensured  that  a  peaceful  settlement  of  the 
conflict continues to be a priority on the agenda of the 
international community. The Assembly has repeatedly 
stated  that  it  considers  that  a  solution  in  accordance 
with resolution 181 (II) would be the most viable — a 
solution  whereby  the  Israelis  and  the  Palestinians  live 
side  by  side  in  peace  and  security  within  recognized 
borders.  We  must  spare  no  effort  in  supporting  both 
Israel and the Palestinian Authority in achieving a just 
and  lasting  solution  after  decades  of  confrontation, 
conflict and violence. 

Today, after 63 years of suffering inflicted on the 
people  of  the  region,  we  must  ask  ourselves  how  we 
will  explain  to  future  generations  our  inability,  for  all 
these  years,  to  realize  what  all  believe  to  be  just  and 
beneficial  for  all.  We  must  come  together  to  begin  a 
credible and sincere dialogue and seek the compromise 
that will lead us to that solution. 

their  desire  for 
the  parties 
engagement, but more must be done. It is necessary to 
go  beyond  good  intentions  and  get  past  the  deadlocks 
that  have  developed  over  time.  Lastly,  honest  and  fair 
negotiations  must  be  conducted.  Violence  and  acts  of 
terror must cease. International law and United Nations 
resolutions  must  be  respected.  Any  action  that  could 
worsen the situation and fuel a climate of suspicion and 
mistrust must stop. 

That  is  not  an  easy  task.  Difficult  choices  and 
sacrifices  will  be  necessary  on  both  sides.  But  we 
absolutely  must,  finally,  find  the  strength  and  courage 
I  encourage 
in 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-65551 (E) 
*1065551* 

I  encourage 
the  Near  East. 
A/65/PV.53 

to  respond  to  the  aspirations  of  the  peoples  of  the 
region to live together in dignity and security. The time 
has come to make peace. 

In  the  short  term,  we  must  take  steps  to  relieve 
the  suffering  of  the  Palestinian  people.  The  General 
Assembly  has  repeatedly  expressed  its  concern  about 
the  humanitarian  conditions  in  the  Gaza  Strip  and  the 
West  Bank.  Without  swift  progress,  the  humanitarian, 
economic  and  security  conditions  of  the  Palestinian 
people  will  continue  to  deteriorate.  I  call  on  all 
Member  States  to  support  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations  Relief  and  Works  Agency  for  Palestine 
Refugees 
the 
international community to provide financial, technical 
and  political  support  that  will  alleviate  the  distress  of 
the Palestinian people. The stakes are high, but there is 
no  alternative  to  a  peaceful  solution  to  the  situation. 
Our debate today must affirm our determination. 

I now give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Abdou 
Salam  Diallo  of  Senegal,  who  will  speak  in  his 
capacity as Chairman of the Committee on the Exercise 
of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People, and 
who  will  also  introduce  draft  resolutions  A/65/L.14, 
L.15, L.16 and L.17. 
the 

Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of 
the Palestinian People (spoke in French): It is my great 
honour  and  pleasure  to  address  the  General Assembly 
for  the  first  time,  in  my  new  capacity  as  Chairman  of 
the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable 
Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People,  on  the  important 
agenda item on the question of Palestine. 

Allow me at the outset to express on behalf of the 
Committee  my  sincere  appreciation  to  all  who  took 
part 
the 
Committee  in  observance  of  the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity with the Palestinian People. 

Before  I  introduce  the  four  draft  resolutions 
drafted  by  our  Committee  under  the  agenda  item,  I 
would  like  to  make  a  few  remarks  about  the  situation 
in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories,  including  East 
Jerusalem, and developments in the political process. 

the  Jewish  settlements 
is 
receiving increasing attention, particularly as it affects 
the  prospects  for  resuming  direct  Israeli-Palestinian 
negotiations.  The  Committee  calls  upon  Israel  to 
restore 
it 
this  morning’s  special  meeting  of 
(Senegal),  Chairman  of 
settlement  moratorium, 
The  situation  of 
Mr.  Diallo
the 
extend 
in 
in 

the 
role 
in  support  of 
is  deeply  alarmed  by 
indefinitely  and  apply  it  also  to  East  Jerusalem.  The 
Committee 
the  unilateral 
measures  intended  to  alter  the  political,  demographic 
and  legal  realities  in  that  Holy  City,  as  well  as  by 
movement  restrictions  and  checkpoints  aimed  at 
creating  a  divide  between  East  Jerusalem  and  the  rest 
of the occupied West Bank. 
The humanitarian crisis in the Gaza Strip, caused 

particularly  by 
Israeli  economic  blockade, 
continues  to  be  a  source  of  great  concern  to  the 
Committee. That is why the Committee wishes to recall 
that the United Nations has a permanent responsibility 
towards the question of Palestine until it is resolved in 
all  its  aspects  in  a  satisfactory  manner  in  accordance 
with international legitimacy. 
For  its  part,  the  Committee  intends  to  continue 

playing  a  constructive 
the 
international  community’s  efforts  to  bring  about  a 
peaceful  solution  of 
the  question  of  Palestine. 
the  Committee  has  been  a  strong 
Specifically, 
supporter  of 
two-State  solution,  whereby  an 
the 
independent,  sovereign  State  of  Palestine  will  be 
established  within 
the  1967  borders,  with  East 
Jerusalem as its capital, living side by side with Israel 
in peace and security. Such a solution should also bring 
peace  and  security  to  the  Israeli  people  and  open  the 
way  for  Israel’s  full  integration  into  the  region,  in 
keeping with the Arab Peace Initiative. 

I would now like to introduce to the Assembly the 
four  draft  resolutions  adopted  by  the  Committee  and 
circulated  under 
item:  A/65/L.14, 
A/65/L.15, A/65/L.16 and A/65/L.17. 

The first three draft resolutions are related to the 
work  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the 
Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People,  the 
Division  for  Palestinian  Rights  of  the  Secretariat,  and 
the  special  information  programme  on  the  question  of 
Palestine of the Department of Public Information, also 
of the Secretariat. They reaffirm the important missions 
entrusted to those entities by the General Assembly. As 
in  the  past,  the  Committee  intends  to  make  sure  that 
resources  made  available  to  it  are  employed  in  the 
optimum manner for all authorized activities. The three 
drafts have been updated. 

The  fourth  draft,  A/65/L.17,  entitled  “Peaceful 
settlement  of  the  question  of  Palestine”,  reiterates  the 
position  of  the  General  Assembly  with  regard  to  the 
essential elements of such a settlement and refers to the 
agenda 
this 
2 

10-65551 
Israel 
and 
outline 
agreements 
between 
the 
floor 
I  now  give 
positions,  mandates 


developments  of  the  past  year.  It  reaffirms,  inter  alia, 
the  General  Assembly’s  full  support  for  the  Middle 
East  peace  process  based  on  the  relevant  United 
Nations  resolutions,  the  Madrid  terms  of  reference,  in 
particular,  the  principle  of  land  for  peace,  the  Arab 
Peace  Initiative,  the  Quartet’s  road  map  and  the 
existing 
the 
Palestinians. 
The  four  draft  resolutions  that  I  have  just 

introduced 
and 
programmes  that  are  of  special  importance.  I  would 
like to call on the General Assembly to vote in favour 
of  them  and  support  the  important  goals  contained 
therein. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  thank  the 

Chairman  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the 
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People. 
to  His  Excellency  

the 
Mr.  Saviour  Borg  of  Malta,  Rapporteur  of 
Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of 
the Palestinian People. 
Mr.  Borg  (Malta),  Rapporteur  of  the  Committee 

on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the 
Palestinian  People:  It  is  an  honour  for  me,  in  my 
capacity  as  Rapporteur  of  the  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People, to present to the General Assembly the annual 
report  of  the  Committee,  contained 
in  document 
A/65/35. Allow  me  to  summarize  each  section  of  the 
report. 

In  chapters  I  through  III,  the  report  covers  the 
Committee’s  mandate  and  objectives,  as  well  as  its 
general perspective on the events that have taken place 
in the course of the year. The Introduction to the report 
refers to the origins of the Committee, which this year 
marked 
thirty-fifth  anniversary,  having  been 
established in 1975. 

It is to be noted that throughout its existence, the 
Committee, through its reports, has continued to stress 
that  a  comprehensive,  just  and  lasting  solution  to  the 
question  of  Palestine  —  the  core  of  the  Arab-Israeli 
conflict  —  must  be  based  on  the  relevant  United 
Nations resolutions and a series of essential principles. 
The  most  important  of  those  principles  are,  first,  that 
Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  must  withdraw  from  the 
Palestinian  territory  occupied  since  1967,  including 
East  Jerusalem,  and  from  the  other  occupied  Arab 
its 
A/65/PV.53
territories. Secondly, the right of all States in the region 
to  live  in  peace  within  secure  and  internationally 
recognized  boundaries  must  be  respected. Thirdly,  the 
inalienable  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  must  be 
recognized  and  exercised.  Moreover,  the  Committee 
has  consistently  supported  a  peaceful  solution  of  the 
question  of  Palestine,  welcoming,  among  other 
initiatives,  the  1991  Madrid  Peace  Conference,  the 
Arab Peace Initiative and the Quartet’s road map. 

Under chapter IV, the report reviews the situation 
relating  to  the  question  of  Palestine,  as  monitored  by 
the  Committee  during  the  year.  It  contains  a  detailed 
factual  account  of  events  that  have  taken  place  in  the 
period  under  review. An  important  development  to  be 
mentioned in particular is the Israeli-Palestinian peace 
negotiations, which saw the critical role undertaken by 
the  United  States  in  May  2010  to  facilitate  indirect 
talks between the parties. This chapter also portrays in 
some  detail  the  grave  situation  persisting  on  the 
ground,  especially  in  and  around  Gaza,  and  the  daily 
difficulties  being  faced  by  the  population  in  the 
occupied  territory  as  a  result  of  restrictions,  illegal 
settlements  activities,  demolitions,  increased  violence 
by  Israeli  settlers,  the  continued  construction  of  the 
wall  in  the  West  Bank,  including  in  and  around 
occupied East Jerusalem, and the acute water shortage. 

Chapter  V  reviews  the  action  taken  by  the 
Committee,  including  the  Chairman’s  participation  in 
General  Assembly  and  Security  Council  debates, 
statements  issued  by  the  Committee  and  its  Bureau, 
and the continued dialogue between the Committee and 
intergovernmental organizations. 

the  mandated 
activities  carried  out  by  the  Division  for  Palestinian 
Rights  and  on  international  meetings  and  conferences 
organized by the Committee and the Division with the 
main  objective  of  raising  international  awareness  of 
various  aspects  of  the  question  of  Palestine  and 
international  support  for  the  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people  and  the  peaceful  settlement  of  the  question  of 
Palestine. 

In  that  respect,  it  is  important  to  note  the 
convening  last  February  in  Malta  of  the  International 
Meeting  in  Support  of  the  Israeli-Palestinian  Peace, 
which  for  the  first  time  was  co-organized  with  the 
Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the  Mediterranean,  the 
seminar and the meeting of civil society held in Vienna 
in  March,  the  international  meeting  and  public  forum 
The  chapter  also  reports  on 
10-65551 

3 

the 
through 
and 
with 
through 
the 
increase 
parliaments 
including  dissemination 
Chapter  V  also  highlights 
A/65/PV.53 

held in Istanbul last May, and the African meeting held 
in Rabat in July. 

in  
the  close  cooperation  between  the  Committee  and 
intergovernmental  organizations,  with  civil  society 
organizations 
and 
interparliamentary organizations. 

Of  special  mention  in  this  chapter  is  the  active 
and  valid  involvement  of  the  Division  for  Palestinian 
Rights  in  the  research,  monitoring  and  publications 
programme, 
the 
Internet. User-friendly measures for the United Nations 
Information  System  on  the  Question  of  Palestine 
(UNISPAL)  are  being  expanded  and  developed, 
including 
incorporation  of  additional 
multimedia  content  and  RSS  and  Twitter  feeds.  That 
continues  to  improve  and  facilitate  the  use  of  modern 
technology  in  the  transmittal  of  information  to  the 
international  community  at  large  on  the  unstinting 
efforts by the United Nations and the Committee on the 
question of Palestine. 

Chapter  VI  provides  an  overview  of  the  work 
done  over  the  year  by  the  Department  of  Public 
Information 
in  accordance  with  General 
Assembly resolution 64/18 of 2 December 2009 and in 
the 
special 
information 
programme on the question of Palestine. 

That chapter provides information on the valuable 
coverage  given  by  DPI  in  the  past  12  months  to  raise 
awareness  of  the  question  of  Palestine,  especially 
through  UN  Radio  and  the  United  Nations  News 
Centre,  the  organization  of  the  annual  International 
Media Seminar on Peace in the Middle East, which was 
held  in  Lisbon  this  year,  the  training  programme  for 
young  Palestinian 
the  digitization  of 
documents  for  UNISPAL,  and  the  dissemination  of 
information and the organization of outreach activities. 

the 
conclusions and recommendations of the Committee, in 
which,  among  other  things,  the  Committee  expresses 
its  opposition 
illegal 
construction  in  Israeli  settlements  in  the  West  Bank. 
The  Committee  also  expresses  its  concern  over  the 
continued  construction  of  the  separation  wall  and  the 
impunity  with  which  Israel’s  legal  obligations,  as 
confirmed by the advisory opinion of the International 
Court  of  Justice,  have  been  flouted.  It  calls  upon  the 
international  community to take the required action to 
last  chapter,  contains 
the  resumption  of 
implementation  of 
Chapter  VII, 
journalists, 
the 
to 
(DPI) 
its 
the 
that 
reiterates 
the  situation 
ensure  respect  for  and  compliance  with  the  Court’s 
ruling, the Fourth Geneva Convention, and the relevant 
United Nations resolutions. 
The  Committee  expresses  its  serious  concern 

about 
in  occupied  East  Jerusalem, 
including  the  acceleration  of  settlement  construction 
and  expansion,  demolitions  of  houses,  revocations  of 
residency rights, eviction of Palestinian citizens, settler 
extremism  and  threats  to  Jerusalem’s  holy  sites  and 
historical  heritage.  The  Committee 
its 
position 
Israel’s  dangerous  and  provocative 
policies in  East Jerusalem are prone to  spark negative 
reactions  on  the  ground  and  in  the  region  and  by 
Muslims  worldwide,  leading  to  violence  and  even 
armed conflict. 

The  Committee  reiterates  that  East  Jerusalem  is 
an  integral  part  of  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory, 
and a negotiated solution of the question of Jerusalem, 
based on international law, is essential to resolving the 
Israeli-Palestinian  conflict  and  crucial  for  a  durable 
peace in the whole region. 

The Committee further reiterates its condemnation 
of the continued Israeli blockade of the Gaza Strip as a 
severe  form  of  collective  punishment  of  the  entire 
population  of  Gaza.  The  Committee  also  reiterates  its 
condemnation  of  the  firing  of  rockets  and  mortar 
rounds  by  Palestinian  militants 
from  Gaza  and 
reiterates  its  call  for  the  release  of  Israeli  corporal 
Gilad Shalit. 

The  Committee  urges  Israel  to  open  all  of  the 
border  crossings  with  the  Gaza  Strip  for  the  flow  of 
humanitarian  aid,  import  and  export  of  commercial 
goods, 
and 
movement of persons in accordance with international 
humanitarian  law,  the  November  2005  Agreement  on 
Movement and Access and Security Council resolution 
1860 (2009). 
the  value  of 

Israeli  military 
internal 
offensive against Gaza of 2008 and 2009 and the Free 
Gaza  flotilla  incident  of  May  2010,  as  well  as  their 
follow-up. At the same time, the Committee calls for a 
comprehensive, credible and independent investigation 
into  the  violations  of  international  law  committed  and 
demands follow-up action. 

It  also  appeals  to  all  the  high  contracting  parties 
to  the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention  to  fulfil  their 
The  Committee  acknowledges 
reconstruction  materials, 
investigations 
including 
into 
the 
4 

10-65551 


obligations  in  accordance  with  common  article  1, 
which  requires  the  high  contracting  parties  to  respect, 
and  to  ensure  respect  for,  the  Convention  in  all 
circumstances. 

The  Committee  welcomed  the  resumption  of  the 
direct negotiations between Israel and the Palestinians 
on  all  permanent  issues  and  notes  the  important  role 
played  here  by  the  United  States,  Egypt  and  Jordan. 
The  Committee  also  stresses  the  importance  of  those 
negotiations  being  based  on  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions, the Madrid terms of reference and the Arab 
Peace Initiative, and of regional partners being directly 
involved in them. In that respect, the continued support 
by  the  international  community,  in  particular  by  the 
Quartet  and  its  individual  members,  is  key  to  moving 
forward  the  Israeli-Palestinian  negotiations  on  all 
permanent status issues. 

The  Committee  supports  the  Palestinian  State-
building  efforts  by  advocating  sustained  and  generous 
donor  commitment,  highlighting  the  actual  needs  on 
the  ground  and  providing  the  Palestinian  Authority 
with  the  opportunity  to  present  its  assessment  to  the 
wider international community. 
The  Committee,  while  remaining  concerned  that 

the  divisions 
factions 
profoundly  affect  the  legitimate  Palestinian  national 
aspirations 
for 
invigorated  efforts  by  all  Palestinian  factions  to  help 
reconcile their positions on the basis of the prevailing 
consensus  on  the  need  to  achieve  the  two-State 
solution,  which  would  lead  to  the  exercise  by  the 
Palestinian people of its inalienable rights. 

The  Committee  will  focus  its  programme  of 
international  meetings  and  conferences  for  2011  on 
widening international support for the permanent status 
negotiations  and  on  contributing  to  the  creation  of  a 
favourable  international  atmosphere  for  their  conduct 
in good faith. 
The  Committee  will  aim  to  mobilize  increased 

international  scrutiny  of  developments  on  the  ground, 
in particular as regards a halt to all settlement activities 
in the West Bank and East Jerusalem and an end to all 
other  illegal  Israeli  policies  and  practices  in  the 
occupied  Palestinian  territory.  The  Committee  also 
aims  to  support  global  campaigns  to  challenge  Israeli 
impunity  and  promote 
Israeli 
accountability  for  its  actions  towards  the  Palestinian 
people. It will pay special attention to highlighting the 
statehood  and  peace,  calls 
the  concept  of 
the  Palestinian 
among 
for 
A/65/PV.53
international 
Finally, 
to 
in  accordance  with 
the  Committee  will  promote 
plight  of  the  most  disadvantaged  Palestinians,  such  as 
Palestine  refugees,  Palestinians  living  in  Gaza  and 
Palestinian political prisoners. The Committee aims to 
contribute to efforts towards ending incitement on both 
sides,  provide  a  venue  for  the  narratives  to  be  heard 
and  reconciled  and,  with  the  help  of  civil  society, 
promote  peace  education. 
It  will  place  special 
emphasis on the inclusion and empowerment of women 
and their organizations in that process. 
The Committee will undertake to further develop 

its  cooperation  with  parliamentarians  and 
their 
umbrella  organizations, as  it considers that lawmakers 
have  a  special  responsibility  to  ensure  that  their 
Governments  actively  promote  and  support 
the 
realization of the two-State solution and ensure respect 
law 
for 
their 
international obligations. 

the 
continuation  of  civil  society  initiatives  in  support  of 
the  Palestinian  people,  and  would  encourage  them  to 
work  closely  with  their  national  Governments  and 
other  institutions  with  a  view  to  gaining  their  full 
support  for  the  work  of  the  United  Nations,  including 
the activities and programmes of the Committee, on the 
question of Palestine. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  the  hope 
that the annual report of the Committee that I have just 
presented  will  be  of  assistance 
the  General 
Assembly  in  its  deliberations  on  the  question  of 
Palestine. 

floor 
Jamahiriya to introduce draft resolution A/65/L.24. 
Mr.  Dabbashi  (Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke 

in  Arabic):  The  General  Assembly  is  once  again 
considering  the  question  of  Palestine.  It  has  done  so 
continuously  since  1947,  without  any  hope  of  the 
Palestinians establishing their own State or of returning 
to 
international 
community’s  help  to  serve  justice  and  avert  threats  to 
international peace and security in the region. 

The particular nature of the question of Palestine 
imposes on the international community the obligation 
to deal with it differently — on the basis of historical 
facts,  current  practices  and  the  search  for  solutions  in 
the context of the principles of international law. Based 
on  that  premise,  today  the  Libyan  delegation  seeks  to 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 
the  Libyan  Arab 
to 
their  homeland,  and  without 
the  representative  of 
the 
10-65551 

5 

to  resolving 
A/65/PV.53 

focus  the  attention  of  the  international  community  on 
the  right  approach 
the  question  of 
Palestine,  rather  than  continuing  on  a  futile  path  of 
closed  doors  and  dreaming  of  the  mirage  of  the 
so-called two-State solution. 

Allow me to go back in history — not to the past 
3,000 years exploited by Zionism to create the tragedy 
we  see  today  in  Palestine;  but  to  the  past  100  years, 
evidence  of  which  clearly  still  exists  throughout 
historical  Palestine  —  in  order  to  demonstrate  the 
extent  of  the  injustice  meted  out  to  the  Palestinian 
people  and  to  find  an  exemplary  way  to  serve  justice 
and  avert  war  and  destruction  in  Palestine  and  the 
entire region. 

In  1917  Jews  made  up  9  per  cent  of  the 
population  of  historical  Palestine,  which  was  also 
comprised  of  Muslims  and  Christians.  The  Jewish 
population  possessed  only  2.5  per  cent  of  Palestinian 
territory.  Owing 
intensified  Jewish  migration 
financed  by  the  Zionist  movement  and  encouraged  by 
the British Mandate, in 1947 Jews accounted for 32 per 
cent of the total population of Palestine and possessed 
6.2 per cent of territory. 

In  the  same  year,  the  General Assembly  adopted 
resolution  181  (II),  which  divided  Palestine  into  two 
States and by virtue of which 56 per cent of Palestinian 
territory  was  handed  over  by  the  Assembly  to  the 
Jewish minority. Palestinian Arabs, who made up more 
than two thirds of the population, received 44 per cent. 
However, the resolution did not please Zionist leaders, 
who  had  further  ambitions. They  wanted  to  benefit  as 
much  as  possible  from  the  sympathy  of  the  great 
Powers  because  of  what  had  happened  to  them  at  the 
hands of the Nazis. 
therefore  established 

armed terrorist organizations, turned them into an army 
and  declared  the  establishment  of  the  State  of  Israel, 
which  attacked  all  Arab 
in  Palestine. 
Between  1948  and  1949  it  dominated  77  per  cent  of 
Palestinian territory, following the bloody slaughter of 
Palestinians, the destruction of their villages  and their 
expulsion from the occupied territories. 
Not satisfied with that state of affairs, and while 

failing 
resolution 
dividing  Palestine  and  occupying  additional  territory, 
in  1967  Israel  waged  a  ferocious  war  against  Arab 
States  during  which  it  seized  the  rest  of  the  historical 
Palestinian territory and parts of other Arab territories. 
The  Zionist  movement 
the  Assembly’s 
to 
implement 
to 
territories 
6 

In that connection, I only wish to reaffirm that in 1917 
the  Jews  possessed  only  2.5  per  cent  of  Palestinian 
territory.  By  1967  the  Jews  possessed  and  dominated 
all of the Palestinian territory. 

Let us now summarize what has happened to the 
Palestinians  over  the  past  60  years.  Seventy-five  per 
cent  of  them  left  their  land  after  it  was  occupied  in 
1948. About a quarter of a million Palestinians left the 
West  Bank  and  Gaza  after  their  occupation  in  1967. 
About 400,000 Palestinians left the occupied territories 
because of the racist  and illegal Israeli  practices there 
after  1967,  when  all  were  either  expelled  or  coerced 
into  leaving  their  villages.  Now  about  5  million 
Palestinian refugees live in 59 refugee camps under the 
supervision  of  the  United  Nations,  most  of  them  in 
neighbouring  States,  while  about  2  million  live  in 
various other countries. 

Of  course,  the  Israeli  occupying  authorities  did 
not  allow  the  return  of  any  Palestinian  refugees, 
despite  General  Assembly  resolutions  194  (III),  of 
1948,  and  181  (II),  of  1947,  whose  provisions  Israel 
was  committed  to  implementing,  since  they  were  a 
condition for its admission as a Member of the United 
Nations. 

Let us see what is happening now. Israel’s policy 
based  on  force  put  pressure  on  the  international 
community  to  forget  the  roots  of  the  Palestinian 
question and recognize only 22 per cent of Palestinian 
territory  as  occupied  since  1967.  In  other  words, 
Palestinian leaders had to accept less than a quarter of 
their  land  on  which  their  people  had  the  right  to 
establish a State. They had an agreement with Israel — 
in  fact,  more  than  10  agreements  between  1993  and 
2005 — but Israel implemented none of them. 
Instead, Israel persisted in  its well-known policy 

of getting rid of the Palestinians by  confiscating land, 
demolishing  houses,  prohibiting  construction,  razing 
fields,  depriving  the  inhabitants  of  the  necessities  of 
life and limiting movement. Under that policy, Israel’s 
occupying authority has seized about 50 per cent of the 
territory  of  the  West  Bank  to  build  149  settlements, 
along  with  the  necessary  infrastructure.  It  has  also 
established  special  security  and  closed  military  areas 
and  what  are  termed  natural  reservations,  as  well  as 
special roads reserved for Jews, not Palestinians. And it 
is  building  the  racist  separation  wall,  which  alone 
occupies about 10 per cent of the territory of the West 
Bank. 
10-65551 
laws  and 
the  water 
regulations 


The  Israeli  occupying  authorities  in  the  West 

Bank  control 
resources  and  deprive 
Palestinians of access to the waters of the Jordan River. 
They  exploit  87  per  cent  of  the  groundwater  in  the 
West  Bank  for  use  by  settlements,  leaving  2.5  million 
Palestinians  to  live  on  the  remaining  13  per  cent. 
Palestinians  receive  less  than  60  litres  of  water  daily 
per  person,  while  Jews  receive  between  274  and 
450 litres. 

We  have  here  an  anomaly  whereby  Israel  has 
turned the international community’s efforts to resolve 
the  Palestinian  question  into  a  sort  of  theatre  of  the 
absurd,  with  the  sole  purpose  of  perpetuating  a  fait 
accompli, reinforced daily at the expense of the rights 
of the Palestinian people. There is no room to establish 
a Palestinian State side by side with Israel owing to the 
fact  that  Israeli  settlements  have  ravaged  half  of  the 
territory of the West Bank and dismembered it so that 
Palestinians are forced to live in separate cantons like 
the racist Bantustans of South Africa in the past. 
That  effort  has  been  underscored  by  a  recent 

series  of 
Israeli 
authorities  have  sought  to  impose,  among  them  a 
change  in  what  is  known  as  the  citizenship  law  that 
forces non-Jews to declare loyalty to Israel as a Jewish 
State.  Another  law  would  deny  residency  rights  to 
Palestinians  who  marry  Palestinians  living  in  the 
occupied  territories  since  1948,  while  another  would 
prohibit  incitement  and  imprison  anyone  who  rejects 
the  principle  of  Israel  as  a  Jewish  State. Another  law, 
on  acceptance 
reject 
applications  for  residence  in  villages  and  towns  if 
applicants’ attitudes were considered to be inconsistent 
with  those  of  the  Zionist  town  in  question.  There  is 
also a law to prohibit the establishment of associations 
that do not conform to Israeli policies. Those are but a 
few  examples  of  some  of  the  laws  aimed  at  ethnic 
cleansing  in  Palestine,  which  are  daily  bolstered  by 
concrete steps to demolish Palestinian homes and expel 
their  inhabitants.  Such  practices  have  recently  been 
concentrated on Jerusalem and the Jordan Valley. 

In  its  resolution  3379  (XXX),  of  10  November 
1975,  the  General  Assembly  declared  Zionism  as  a 
form of racial discrimination. This was not a fallacy, as 
some  have  unsuccessfully  tried  to  prove.  In  reality, 
Zionism is the worst form of racism, given its practices 
of  racial  discrimination  and 
in  ethnic 
cleansing  in  Palestine  as  a  way  of  establishing  an 
exclusively Jewish State there. 
into  municipalities,  would 
its  belief 
that 
the 
A/65/PV.53
its  occupation  of 

I  have  here  the  report  of  the  Human  Sciences 
Research  Council  of  South Africa,  which  conducted  a 
detailed legal study in the context of international law 
and the laws that applied in Palestine prior to and since 
the occupation, with a view to answering the question 
of  whether  or  not  Israel  was  a  State  that  practised 
apartheid. The study, which has been published online, 
along  with  a  summary,  for  those  who  wish  to  read  it, 
concluded that 

“Israel,  since  1967,  has  been  the  belligerent 
occupying  Power  in  the  [occupied  Palestinian 
territory],  and  … 
these 
territories has become a colonial enterprise which 
implements a system of apartheid.” 

It has become clear that the Israeli entity refuses 
to  recognize  the  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  and 
constantly  attempts  to  render  its  full  occupation  legal, 
rejecting the establishment of a viable Palestinian State 
and  seeking  by  any  means  to  dominate  every  inch  of 
Palestinian  territory  so  that  Israel  can  expand  and 
become  entrenched  as  a  racist  State  with  Jews  alone 
living in it, all Palestinians having been expelled. 
The  two-State  solution  promoted  by  various 

United  States  Administrations,  and  enthusiastically 
received  by  many,  is  therefore  rendered  impossible 
because of Israeli intransigence and the overlapping of 
Jewish  and  Palestinian  populations,  including  the 
shrinking  and  dismemberment  of 
remaining 
Palestinian  land.  Moreover,  the  two  parties  believe  in 
their  right  to  all  the  territories  of  historical  Palestine. 
The Israelis claim that they were there 3,000 years ago, 
and 
their 
continuous  presence  in  the  territories  for  hundreds  of 
years. 
Because  of  that  deadlock,  it  has  become  critical 

to  consider  another  solution,  one  that  takes  into 
account the principles of justice and is modelled on the 
elimination  of  apartheid  in  South Africa  and  based  on 
the  establishment  of  one  State  on  the  whole  of  the 
territory  of  historical  Palestine:  a  State  where  all 
Palestinian refugees would return and where Arabs and 
Jews  would  live  in  peace,  enjoy  the  same  rights  and 
bear  the  same  responsibilities.  That  State  would  be 
disarmed and would live in peace with its neighbours. 

The  Israeli  entity’s  practices  leave  no  hope  for 
any other than the one-State solution. Hence, we have 
to choose either the present racist State imposed by the 
Zionists and limited to the Jews alone or a democratic 
the  Palestinians  base 
their  claim  on 
the 
10-65551 

7 

to 
reaffirm 
concerning 
the  principle  of 
A/65/PV.53 

State  imposed  by  the  international  community,  where 
the Arabs  and  the  Jews  would  coexist  and  where  they 
would  have  the  same  rights  and  responsibilities.  That 
model  reflects  what  has  taken  place  in  South  Africa, 
where a democratic State was established on the rubble 
of  the  apartheid  regime  and  where  blacks  and  whites 
now  coexist  after  long  decades  of  animosity  and 
bloodshed. 
The  Libyan  delegation  has  prepared  draft 

resolution  A/65/L.24, 
the  one-State 
solution, which will be put to the General Assembly for 
a  vote.  We  hope  that  it  will  receive  the  necessary 
support  from  all  delegations  and  be  adopted  in  the 
service  of  regional  and 
international  peace  and 
security. 

The  draft  resolution  proposes  that  the  General 
Assembly, proceeding from the principles of the United 
Nations  Charter, 
the 
inadmissibility of the acquisition of territory by force. 
It also stresses the inalienable rights of the Palestinian 
people, including their right to return to their homeland 
and 
to  establish  an 
independent  State  on  their  territory.  It  underlines  the 
tragic  consequences  of  Israel’s  policy  of  force  and  it 
refers  to  the  failure  of  all  the  initiatives  aimed  at 
establishing  a  just  and  lasting  peace  between  the 
Jewish and the Palestinian peoples, as well as to what 
the Palestinians suffer as a result of the occupation and 
the loss of the remaining Palestinian land. 

The  draft  resolution  seeks  to  achieve  justice  and 
to  avert  more  tragedies  and  disasters  in  the  region.  It 
recognizes  that  the  present  situation  in  Palestine  will 
not allow for the establishment of two viable States, as 
I  have  just  explained.  It  notes  that  Jews  have  lived 
among Arabs  and  Muslims  in  peace  and  harmony  for 
centuries in different countries, before the establishment 
of  the  Zionist  entity,  which  has  unfortunately  created 
animosities between Muslims, Arabs and Jews. 

follows: 

The operative part of the draft resolution reads as 
self-determination  and 

“Confirms  its  commitment  to  attaining  a 
just,  lasting  and  comprehensive  solution  to  the 
conflict in Palestine; 

“Emphasizes the right of all inhabitants who 
were born in, or whose fathers or ancestors were 
born in, the historical territory of Palestine to live 
in  the  territory  and  recover  their  property  and  to 

8 




the 
enjoy  their  human  rights  as  proclaimed  in  the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  the 
International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political 
Rights  and 
International  Covenant  on 
Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, regardless 
of their religion or ethnic origin; 

“Affirms  the  right  of  all  refugees  and 
displaced  persons,  as  a  result  of  the  fighting 
which  erupted  in  1948  and  1967  and  subsequent 
hostilities,  to  return  to  their  homes  and  previous 
abodes; 

“Also affirms that the time is ripe to find a 
peaceful, just, lasting and comprehensive solution 
to the conflict between the Palestinian and Jewish 
peoples  that  safeguards  the  legitimate  rights  of 
the two sides; 

“Decides that there is no viable option other 
than  the  establishment  of  a  single  democratic, 
multiracial  and  multicultural  State  for  both  the 
Jews  and  the  Palestinians,  based  on  equal  rights 
and  equal  obligations,  which  shall  be  disarmed 
and  shall  live  in  peace  with  its  neighbours,  and 
calls on the two parties to start, without delay and 
with  support  from  the  international  community, 
negotiations for the realization of such a State; 

“Invites  all  Member  States  and  United 
Nations organs, including the Security Council, to 
provide support for the establishment of a single 
State for both the Jews and the Palestinians which 
upholds  the  right  of  return  for  all  refugees  and 
displaced  persons  and  embraces  the  values  of 
democracy, justice and human rights; 
“Requests  the  Secretary-General  to  follow 

up  on 
the  present 
resolution and to submit to the General Assembly, 
at its sixty-sixth session a report in that regard; 

“Decides to remain seized of the matter.” 

There  is  no  doubt  that  this  draft  resolution 

reflects justice and seeks to establish peace. We believe 
that  all  delegations  that  represent  peace-loving  States 
and aspire to security will vote in favour of it, although 
we know that much pressure will be brought to bear on 
those States. 

floor to the Permanent Observer of Palestine. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 
implementation  of 
the 


10-65551 
item 
that  has  been  on 


Mr. Mansour (Palestine): At the outset, I wish to 

convey  Palestine’s  appreciation  to  you,  Mr.  President, 
for your wise leadership and guidance of the important 
work  of  the  General  Assembly  during  the  sixty-fifth 
session, including its efforts with regard to the question 
of  Palestine,  an 
the 
Organization’s  agenda  since  its  inception  and  that, 
tragically, remains unresolved and continues to demand 
urgent attention by the international community. 

I  also  wish  to  reaffirm  our  deep  appreciation  to 
the  members  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the 
Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian People, its Bureau 
and  its  current  and  previous  Chairmen,  respectively, 
Ambassadors  Abdou  Salam  Diallo  and  Paul  Badji  of 
Senegal,  as  well  as  its  Vice-Chairmen,  Ambassadors 
Zahir Tanin of Afghanistan and Pedro Núñez Mosquera 
of Cuba, and its Rapporteur, Ambassador Saviour Borg 
of  Malta.  We  are  grateful  for  their  tireless  efforts  to 
assist the Palestinian people in their struggle to realize 
their  right  to  self-determination  —  a  core  principle  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  —  as  well  as  their 
efforts  to  mobilize  international  support  for  the  just 
cause of Palestine and peace. 

We  thank  the  Rapporteur  for  his  presentation  of 
the  Committee’s  report  (A/65/35),  which  gives  a 
thorough  overview  of 
the  Committee’s  work, 
developments  on  the  ground  and  the  political  process 
over the past year. 

We also express our appreciation to the Division 
for  Palestinian  Rights  and  the  Department  of  Public 
Information  for  their  efforts  to  enhance  international 
awareness  of  this  serious  issue  in  all  its  aspects.  We 
also  reiterate  our  appreciation  to  His  Excellency 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  contributions 
on  behalf  of  the  United  Nations  towards  a  peaceful 
resolution  of 
the 
Arab-Israeli conflict as a whole. 

Today, 29 November 2010, marks 63 years since 
the General Assembly’s adoption of resolution 181 (II), 
by  which  it  partitioned  mandated  Palestine  into  two 
States  —  a  decision  that  dramatically  transformed  the 
landscape and future of the Middle East. Although that 
resolution  led  to  the  establishment  of  the  State  of 
Israel, more than six decades later the independence of 
the  Palestinian  Arab  State  continues  to  unjustly  be 
obstructed  and  the  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people 
continue to be flagrantly denied and violated. 
the  question  of  Palestine  and 
A/65/PV.53

To  this  day,  the  Palestinian  people  continue  to 
suffer  the  consequences  of  the  1948  Al-Nakba,  in 
which  they  were  uprooted  and  dispersed  from  their 
homeland,  with  more  than  half  of  the  Palestinian 
population,  now  approximately  4.8  million  people, 
continuing  to  live  as  refugees,  the  majority  still  in 
camps  established  to  shelter  them  more  than  60  years 
ago. The question of Palestine has thus remained at the 
core of the Arab-Israeli conflict, a burning issue on the 
international  agenda  and  a  symbol  of 
injustice 
worldwide. 

It  is  the  very  State  that  the Assembly  created  by 
resolution 181 (II) — Israel — that  continues to deny 
the  existence  of  the  nation  of  Palestine  and  the  rights 
of  its  people,  including  to  self-determination  and  to 
return  to  their  homes  to  live  in  peace  with  their 
neighbours. It is that State that continues to undermine 
all  initiatives  aimed  at  justly  resolving  the  conflict 
according to  international  law and the  relevant United 
Nations  resolutions.  Clearly,  for  Israel,  the  United 
Nations  served  its  purpose  in  1947  and  1948,  only  to 
be ignored, disdained and even vilified thereafter. 

The  inability  of  the  international  community  to 
uphold  the  law  vis-à-vis  this  conflict  and  to  enforce 
consequences  on  Israel  for  its  defiance  of  the  Charter 
and its legal obligations has had a disastrous impact on 
the Palestinian people and the region. It has fostered a 
fervent  sense  of  Israeli  impunity  which,  since  1967, 
has  allowed  for  the  continuation  of  Israel’s  43-year-
long  military  occupation  of  Palestinian 
territory, 
including East Jerusalem since 1967. 

The  years  have  deepened  the  conflict,  causing 
vast suffering and losses among the Palestinian people, 
both under occupation and in exile in the diaspora, and 
imposing  a  constant  state  of  crisis,  instability  and 
insecurity in the region. That is the reason we are here 
once again today to appeal for measures to bring a halt 
to Israeli violations against the Palestinian people  and 
for serious efforts to bring an end to this conflict on the 
basis of the relevant United Nations resolutions. 

As we stand here before the Assembly today, our 
people  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory,  including 
East  Jerusalem,  continue  to  endure  the  systematic 
violation of their human rights by Israel, the occupying 
Power.  They  continue  to  be  subjected  to  all  forms  of 
oppression,  including  collective  punishment  and  mass 
imprisonment, and to the colonization and confiscation 
of  their  land  by  the  occupying  Power.  It  is  a  situation 
10-65551 

9 

in 
the 
efforts 
A/65/PV.53 

that  is  both  unsustainable  and  extremely  volatile. 
Indeed,  despite  their  resilience  over  the  years,  the 
Palestinian people are rapidly losing hope in the peace 
process and its prospects for delivering them from the 
prolonged state of conflict, suffering and dispossession 
imposed  upon  them  and  for  restoring  their  rights  and 
freedom. 
Unfortunately,  in  spite  of  the  international  and 

the  recent  period, 
regional  efforts  for  peace 
including 
the  United  States 
of 
Administration  of  President  Barack  Obama  and  the 
other members of the Quartet, including the European 
Union, the Russian Federation and the United Nations, 
as  well  as  the  League  of  Arab  States  and  all  other 
concerned  members  of  the  international  community, 
Israel  remains  intransigent  in  its  pursuit  of  illegal 
policies  and  practices  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory.  The  Israeli  Government  continues  to  prove 
that  it  is  unable  and  unwilling  to  shake  the  mentality 
and behaviour of occupier and aggressor and to commit 
to the path of peace and the international consensus on 
the  two-State  solution.  And  there  is  an  international 
consensus on the two-State solution. 

It  continues  to  use  arbitrary,  irrational,  fictitious 
and  even  racist  pretexts  to  absolve  itself  of  its  legal 
the 
responsibilities, 
international  community 
issues, 
prolonging  the  conflict  and  further  exacerbating  the 
situation on the ground. 

There  is  no  more  stark  illustration  of  that  point 
than  Israel’s  continued  pursuit  of  its  settlement  and 
colonization  campaign 
the  occupied 
Palestinian territory, including East Jerusalem, in direct 
violation  of  international  humanitarian  law,  United 
Nations  resolutions  and  the  Road  Map  obligation  to 
freeze  all  settlement  activities,  including  so-called 
natural growth. 

Moreover, that policy is being carried out in total 
defiance  of  the  global  calls  to  completely  cease  that 
illegal  and  destructive  campaign,  which  rejects  the 
fundamental  peace process principle of  land for peace 
and  blatantly  contradicts  the  objective  of  the  peace 
process. 

Once  again,  Israel  has  chosen  its  expansionist 
agenda over the goal of peace and security by refusing 
to 
the 
negotiations to be convened in September and refusing 
to  extend  its  so-called  moratorium  on  settlement 
the  circumstances 
the  attention  of 
that  allowed 
to  distract 
throughout 
the  core 
respect 
from 
for 
to  destroy 
The  situation 
in  and  around 
the  Old  City  and 
Israeli  announcement  of  plans 
activities.  Since  expiration  of 
the  moratorium, 
settlement  activities  have  intensified  exponentially, 
especially in occupied East Jerusalem. 

Israel’s continued construction of settlements and 
the  annexation  wall,  the  confiscation  of  land  and 
exploitation of natural resources, and the imposition of 
hundreds  of  checkpoints  continue 
the 
contiguity,  integrity  and  unity  of  the  Palestinian  land 
and are rapidly destroying the viability of the two-State 
solution. 
in  occupied  East  Jerusalem, 

including 
the 
neighbourhoods  of  Silwan,  Al-Bustan  and  Sheikh 
Jarrah,  remains  most  critical,  as  evidenced  by  the 
recent 
the 
construction  of  yet  another  1,300  settlement  units  in 
the illegal settlement of Har Homa on Palestinian land 
known historically as Jabal Abu Ghneim. 
It must be recalled that it was the construction of 

that settlement and the  failure of the Security Council 
to  address  that  illegal  action  that  led  to  the  tenth 
emergency special session of the General Assembly in 
1997. 

Israel’s  settlement  campaign  in  and  around  the 
Holy  City  is  clearly  intended  to  dramatically  alter  the 
demographic 
and  Palestinian  Arab 
character  and  identity  of  East  Jerusalem  and  to 
physically  isolate  and  sever  the  Holy  City  from  its 
natural Palestinian environs. 

We  condemn  that  unlawful  campaign  and  all 
related  measures  and  reaffirm  our  rejection  of  Israel’s 
annexation  of  East  Jerusalem,  a  measure  that  has  not 
been  recognized  by  the  international  community  and 
has  been  determined  by  the  Security  Council  and  the 
General Assembly to be null and void. 

activities, 
Palestinians in occupied East Jerusalem continue to be 
subjected  to  the  demolition  of  their  homes,  evictions, 
revocation  of 
rights  and  other 
provocations  by  Israeli  settlers,  Government  officials 
and even religious leaders, who continue immorally to 
glorify  and  justify  that  crime  of  colonizing  another 
people’s land. 

Moreover,  settlers,  who  increased  by  another 
8,000 in number during the “moratorium” period alone, 
continue 
intimidate  Palestinian 
civilians  and  to  destroy  and  vandalize  Palestinian 
terrorize  and 
composition 
settlement 
residency 
addition 
their 
the 
In 
to 
to 
10 

10-65551 
the  2004  Advisory  Opinion  of 


property,  including  homes,  mosques  and  agricultural 
fields. All of that is fuelling already high tensions and 
inflaming  religious  sensitivities  and  gives  further 
credence to the serious doubts about Israel’s credibility 
as a peace partner. 

At  this  point,  we  must  reiterate:  a  halt  to  all 
Israeli settlement activities in the occupied Palestinian 
territory,  including  East  Jerusalem,  is  essential  for  the 
resumption  of  a  credible  process  aimed  at  achieving 
the two-State solution based on the pre-1967 borders. 
What  we  are  talking  about  is  not  some  kind  of 

Palestinian “precondition” for the peace process; rather 
it is a mandatory legal obligation binding on Israel, the 
occupying Power, under the Fourth Geneva Convention, 
which  prohibits  colonization  activities,  in  accordance 
with numerous Security Council and General Assembly 
resolutions, 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  and  the  Road  Map 
formulated  by  the  Quartet,  all  of  which  have  deemed 
Israeli settlement activities to be illegal and have called 
for their complete cessation. 
At the same time, Israel continues to pursue other 

the  occupied 
illegal  measures  and  policies 
Palestinian territory, subjecting the Palestinian civilian 
population  to  systematic  human  rights  violations, 
collective  punishment,  displacement  and  constant 
affronts 
their  human  dignity  and  completely 
violating  the  principle  of  and  obligation  for  the 
protection  of  civilians  in  armed  conflict,  including 
situations of foreign occupation. 
The  occupying  Power  continues  to  arbitrarily 

detain and imprison thousands of Palestinian civilians, 
including  children  and  women.  Palestinian  prisoners 
and  detainees  continue  to  be  held  in  unhygienic  and 
inhumane  conditions,  subject  to  physical  and  mental 
ill-treatment, including abuse, solitary confinement and 
torture,  and  continue  to  be  denied  family  visits, 
adequate  medical  care  and  food,  in  violation  of 
international humanitarian and human rights law. 

The situation in the Gaza Strip also remains most 
critical. The continuing impact of Israel’s blockade and 
the  consequences  of  Israel’s  military  aggression  last 
year  still  gravely  affect  every  aspect  of  life  in  Gaza, 
with the movement of persons and goods and recovery 
continuing  to  be  impeded  and  poverty,  unemployment 
and food insecurity still at high levels. 
in 
to 
A/65/PV.53
to 
inflict 
suffering  on 
In 
that 
the  Palestinian 
in  accordance  with 
regard,  we  continue 
the  Goldstone  Report 
The trauma and destruction inflicted by Israel, the 

occupying  Power,  on 
civilian 
population,  thousands  of  whom  have  been  killed  and 
injured,  and 
its  continued  obstruction  of  Gaza’s 
rehabilitation and reconstruction is gravely harming the 
well-being  and  stability  of  the  society  as  a  whole, 
particularly  the  most  vulnerable,  such  as  the  refugees, 
who constitute the majority of the population there. 

for 
to  call 
accountability for the war crimes committed by Israel, 
the occupying Power, and continue our efforts to move 
action  forward  in  the  follow-up  to  the  report  by  the 
United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza 
Conflict, 
(A/HRC/12/48), 
emphasizing  the  need  to  end  Israeli  impunity  and  to 
realize justice for the victims. 
We  continue  to  call  for  the  full  lifting  of  the 

Israeli  blockade 
international 
humanitarian  law,  Security  Council  resolution  1860 
(2009) and the Agreement on Movement and Access of 
November  2005.  The  persistence  of  that  shameful 
situation  continues 
the 
population  in  Gaza  and  to  stoke  feelings  of  injustice 
and despair and it must be ended. 

That  unjust  situation  has  also  prompted  greater 
solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  people  in  Gaza  from 
around  the  world,  including  those  civilians  that  were 
on  board  the  Gaza  Freedom  flotilla  in  May  this  year, 
attempting to deliver much-needed humanitarian aid. 

We reiterate our condemnation of Israel’s military 
attack on the  flotilla, in violation of international  law, 
including  humanitarian  and  human  rights  law,  which 
resulted in the killing of nine Turkish nationals, and we 
also reiterate our calls for accountability for that crime 
perpetrated against civilians in international waters. 

We  are  undeniably  at  a  crossroads  in  our  long 
search for a just settlement of the question of Palestine 
and  peace  and  security  in  the  Middle  East. The  status 
quo is untenable, and we  must choose  a way  forward, 
knowing that the path chosen will determine the future 
prospects  for  peace  and  stability  in  the  Middle  East 
region and beyond. 

The  first  path  is  clear:  to  seize,  with  full 
determination, the opportunity before us to resume and 
accelerate the peace process on the basis of its agreed 
terms  of  reference.  That  path  can  move  us  forward 
towards  the  achievement  of  a  final,  just  resolution  of 
10-65551 

11 
Jerusalem, 
the  Palestine 
refugees,  and 
A/65/PV.53 

all core issues in the Israeli-Palestinian conflict — the 
refugees, 
settlements,  borders,  water, 
security  and  prisoners  —  bringing  a  definitive  end  to 
the  Israeli  military  occupation  that  began  in  1967,  the 
independence  of  the  State  of  Palestine,  with  East 
Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  a  just  and  agreed  solution  to 
the  plight  of 
the 
establishment  of  peace  and  security  between  Palestine 
and Israel and throughout the Middle East. That is the 
path  preferred  and  supported  by  the  international 
community and it must be pursued with urgency. 

The  second  path  is  also  clear:  to  allow  the 
violations and impunity of Israel, the occupying Power, 
to sabotage the prospects  that remain  for realizing the 
two-State solution for peace. If forced down that path, 
we  will  witness  only  more  violence,  suffering  and 
instability  for  the  Palestinian  and  Israeli  peoples  and 
the  entire  region  and  will  be  taken  further  away  than 
ever  from  our  noble  goal  of  peace.  The  Palestinian 
people and their leadership reject that path and reaffirm 
their  commitment  to  the  first  path  with  a  view  to 
achieving a just, lasting and peaceful settlement on the 
basis of the two-State solution. 

We come, therefore, before the Assembly today to 
again  urge  the  international  community  to  uphold  its 
responsibilities.  Serious  efforts  must  be  undertaken, 
including  by  the  Security  Council,  to  uphold  the 
international 
responsibility 
towards resolving justly the question of Palestine in all 
aspects. The  political  will  and  courage  must  be  found 
to  follow  through  on  the  legal  positions  adopted,  the 
principled declarations made and the commitments and 
pledges  made  to  uphold  the  law  in  all  circumstances 
and to make peace a reality. Peace and security in the 
Middle  East  depend  on 
the  credibility  of 
international  law  and  of  our  international  system, 
including  the  Security  Council  of  the  United  Nations, 
depends on it. 

The  conflict  is  not  an  intractable  one  for  which 
there  is  no  solution,  as  the  occupying  Power  would 
have us believe in the hope that the drive for peace will 
be  abandoned  and  the  status  quo  accepted. A  just  and 
viable  solution  can  be  found  in  the  many  relevant 
Security  Council  and  General  Assembly  resolutions, 
including  the  resolution  entitled  “Peaceful  settlement 
of 
is  adopted 
annually  under  this  agenda  item,  as  well  as  in  the 
landmark  Advisory  Opinion  of  2004  of 
the 
International Court of Justice. That solution is the clear 
the  question  of  Palestine”,  which 
community’s  ongoing 
it; 

long  as 
objective  of  the  internationally  supported  Middle  East 
peace  process  based  on  the  relevant  United  Nations 
resolutions,  the  Madrid  terms  of  reference,  including 
the  land  for  peace  principle,  the Arab  Peace  Initiative 
and the Road Map. 

We  fully  understand,  of  course,  the  need  for  the 
negotiation  of  a  peace  settlement  between  the  Israeli 
and Palestinian sides. While actively implementing our 
State-building  programme,  despite  all  obstacles,  in 
preparation  for  our  independence,  which  we  believe 
has  reached  the  point  of  inevitability,  the  Palestinian 
leadership  has  also  repeatedly  reaffirmed  its  readiness 
to  resume  the  negotiation  process  in  an  environment 
that is actually conducive for achieving  peace, that is, 
one  in  which  actions  that  run  counter  to  peace  are 
halted, including settlement activities. 

At  the  same  time,  however,  we  continue  to 
reaffirm  the  duty  of  the  international  community  to 
fulfil  its  international  covenant  to  the  Palestinian 
people, made decades ago, beginning with the League 
of  Nations  mandate  and  continuing  with  General 
Assembly  resolution  181  (II)  and  all  subsequent 
resolutions.  As 
remains 
unfulfilled, peace will remain elusive, for peace cannot 
take  hold  in  a  land  where  injustice  prevails.  Israeli 
breaches  of  the  law  and  contempt  for  the  will  of  the 
international  community  can  no  longer  be  tolerated. 
Israel  must  be  compelled  either  to  choose  the  path  of 
peace or to bear responsibility for its obstruction. 

With such a commitment to international law and 
the  true  principles  of  justice  and  peace,  it  will  be 
possible  to  overcome  the  current  impasse  and  resolve 
the  prolonged,  tragic  conflict  in  our  region.  But  the 
window of opportunity is narrow, and we must act now. 
It is only with collective action that we can achieve the 
visionary  goal  set  by  United  States  President  Barack 
Obama before this Assembly in September, namely, the 
realization in the coming year of the membership in the 
United  Nations  of  an  independent,  sovereign  State  of 
Palestine,  living  side  by  side  with  Israel  and  all  other 
neighbours  in  peace  and  security.  We  express  our 
deepest hopes that that vision will indeed be the reality 
when the Assembly meets at the next session to address 
the question of Palestine. 

this 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People,  we  express  deepest  gratitude  for  all  of  the 
support  and  solidarity  extended  to  us  over  the  many 
the  occasion  of 
conclusion,  on 
that  covenant 
In 
12 

10-65551 
the 
the 
inalienable 
international  community’s  resolve 
legitimate 
rights  of 


years  by  the  international  community,  a  support  that 
has  been  and  will  continue  to  be  central  to  the 
resilience and steadfastness of the Palestinian people in 
the pursuit of their just cause for the fulfilment of their 
legitimate national aspirations and rights, including the 
independence  of  their  State  of  Palestine,  with  East 
Jerusalem as its capital. 
Mr.  Abdelaziz  (Egypt):  I  have  the  pleasure  to 

address  the  General Assembly  today  on  behalf  of  the 
118  States  members  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
(NAM)  on  agenda  item  37,  entitled  “Question  of 
Palestine”.  Today  is  a  very  important  day  in  that  it 
coincides with the International Day of Solidarity with 
the Palestinian People and represents an opportunity to 
to 
solidify 
achieve 
the 
Palestinian  people,  foremost  of  which  is  their  right  to 
establish an independent, sovereign and viable State of 
Palestine,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  based  on 
the  two-State  solution,  the  relevant  Security  Council 
and  General  Assembly 
the  Madrid 
resolutions, 
principles and the Arab Peace Initiative. 

Unfortunately, our meeting today also comes at a 
time  when  Israel  continues  to  carry  out  its  illegal 
actions  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory,  including 
East  Jerusalem,  seriously  aggravating  the  situation  on 
the  ground  and  undermining  efforts  to  revive  the 
political process that will lead to a final solution of the 
conflict.  Despite  all  serious  efforts  by  concerned 
international  and  regional  parties  seeking  to  maintain 
continuous,  effective  direct  negotiations  on 
the 
Palestinian  track  and  towards  achieving  just  and 
comprehensive solutions on all core final status issues, 
progress continues to be obstructed by Israel’s negative 
positions and unlawful actions. 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  condemns  Israel’s 

persistence 
the  construction  and 
expansion  process  in  many  settlements  in  the  West 
Bank, which has been most intense in and around East 
Jerusalem. The occupying Power’s blatant contempt of 
the unanimous position of the international community 
and  absolute  disrespect  for 
its  obligations  under 
international  law,  including  international  humanitarian 
law,  has  been  more  evident  than  ever  since  the 
expiration  date  of  the  so-called  partial  moratorium  on 
settlement  activities.  It  is  widely  known  that  such 
illegal  colonization  activities  have  caused  grave 
damage 
the 
Palestinian  territory  occupied  by  Israel  since  1967, 
the  contiguity  and 
in  continuing 
integrity  of 
to 
A/65/PV.53
the 
realizing 
for  physically 
including  East  Jerusalem,  and  grave  damage  to  the 
prospects 
two-State 
solution. 

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  is  also  alarmed  by 
the continuous and persistent attacks by Israeli settlers 
against Palestinian civilians, Islamic and Christian holy 
sites  and  worship  places,  including  the  uprooting  of 
thousands  of  olive  trees,  vandalism  and  theft  of 
agricultural  equipment  and  crops  under  the  protection 
of Israeli forces. 
Moreover,  the  NAM  remains  deeply  concerned 

about  Israel’s  practice  of  certifying  and  labelling 
products  originating  from  Israeli  settlements  in  the 
occupied  Palestinian  territory  as  “Made  in  Israel”,  in 
direct violation of international law, international trade 
law  and  other  regulations  on  the  rules  of  origin  of 
various  commodities.  The  Movement  therefore  calls 
upon  the  international  community  and  Member  States 
to  take  necessary  measures  to  verify  the  origin  of 
Israeli products, including enabling customs officials to 
travel to Israel and the occupied Palestinian territory to 
ensure  that  the  entry  of  settlement  products  into  their 
markets  is  brought  to  a  swift  and  resolute  end,  thus 
halting  subsidization  of 
illegal  colonization 
enterprise. 

that  Israel 
remove  all  checkpoints  and  roadblocks  from  all  parts 
of  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory.  Those  measures 
continue  to  restrict  the  movement  of  persons  and 
goods, 
the  Palestinian 
territory  through  an  attempt  to  isolate  East  Jerusalem 
from its natural Arab surroundings in the West Bank. In 
that  regard,  the  Movement  also  demands  that  Israel 
comply  fully  with 
the 
International Court of Justice and cease construction of 
its  annexation  wall,  which  is  severely  impacting  the 
human  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  worsening 
humanitarian conditions in addition to its grave impact 
on the contiguity of the Palestinian territory. 

The Non-Aligned Movement also expresses deep 
concern  with  regard  to  the  serious  and  tense  situation 
in  occupied  East  Jerusalem  as  a  result  of  ongoing 
settlement  activities  and  other  illegal  measures.  The 
Movement  demands  the  immediate  cessation  of  home 
demolition and revocation of the residency rights of yet 
more  Palestinians,  particularly  those  from  Jerusalem, 
including  elected  Palestinian  Legislative  Council 
representatives.  Those  illegal  actions  represent  clear 
thus  seriously  fragmenting 
the  Advisory  Opinion  of 
the  NAM  demands 
Furthermore, 
that 
10-65551 

13 
the 
in 
to  be 
resolute 
the  future 
to  prejudge 
the  outcome  of 
international  consensus 
A/65/PV.53 

attempts 
permanent status negotiations and must be rejected. 

The Non-Aligned Movement reiterates its call for 
the 
international  community 
in 
demanding  that  Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  abide 
forthwith  by  its  legal  obligations  under  the  Fourth 
Geneva  Convention, 
relevant  United  Nations 
resolutions  and  the  Road  Map.  Israel  must  cease  all 
colonization  practices  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory, including East Jerusalem — that means that it 
must  completely  freeze  all  settlement  and  wall 
construction  and  other  related  measures,  including  in 
East  Jerusalem.  Israel  cannot  continue  to  ignore  and 
defy 
that  regard, 
including  calls  from  the  United  Nations,  the  United 
States,  the  European  Union,  the  Quartet  and  other 
international  bodies,  without  any  consequences.  That 
main obstacle on the path to peace must be removed. 

The Non-Aligned Movement is also disturbed by 
the  many  United  Nations  and  independent  reports 
regarding  human  rights  violations  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territory,  which  indicate  that  a  culture  of 
impunity  has  reigned 
illegal 
violations  that  have  infringed  on  a  wide  scope  of 
rights, 
to 
self-determination,  the  right  to  freedom  of  movement 
and the right to life. 

The Movement strongly  condemns the  continued 
imprisonment  of  nearly  10,000  Palestinians  in  Israeli 
jails  and  other  detention  facilities,  where  ill-treatment 
and  torture  are  widely  used.  It  is  the  Movement’s 
conviction  that  those  prisoners,  who  include  children 
and  women,  should  be  released  immediately  and  that 
proper 
their  current 
condition  should  be  a  priority  of  the  United  Nations 
and the international community. 

The  Movement  also  remains  gravely  concerned 
by  the  situation  in  the  Gaza  Strip,  which  continues  to 
be one of its top priorities. The continued imposition of 
collective  punishment  by 
the  entire 
Palestinian  civilian  population  has  created  a  critical 
human  rights  and  humanitarian  situation  there.  The 
population  continues  to  suffer  and  endure  serious 
hardship as a result of the ongoing Israeli blockade and 
the 
the  brutal  military  aggression  of 
2008-2009. 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement 

demands that Israel completely lift its illegal blockade 
inspection  of 
this  regard, 
international 
to  repeated 
impact  of 
alia, 
the 
right 
including 
inter 
In 

in 
allowing 
inflamed 
including 
Israel  enable 
the  situation, 
that  regard  under 
that 
revival  by 
and  fully  implement  Security  Council  resolution  1860 
(2009), General Assembly resolution ES-10/18 and all 
other  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions,  and  respect 
its  obligations 
international 
humanitarian  law.  Israel  must  open  all  of  its  crossing 
points  with  Gaza  for 
the  sustained  and  regular 
movement  of  persons  and  goods.  The  Movement  also 
stresses the urgency of the reconstruction of Gaza and 
reconstruction  and 
demands 
economic 
importation  of 
reconstruction materials, including those necessary for 
reconstruction  of  United  Nations  facilities  and  the 
schools  of  the  United  Nations  Relief  and  Works 
Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East. 

While  the  Palestinian  Authority  has  repeatedly 
affirmed  its  determination  to  pursue  the  path  of  peace 
and  undertake  all  measures  to  ensure  security,  Israel 
continues  to  violate  its  legal  obligations  and  blatantly 
impedes efforts to resume direct negotiations through a 
series  of  unlawful,  provocative  measures  that  have 
only 
repeated 
inflammatory remarks by Government officials and the 
racist bill recently passed by the Israeli cabinet on the 
Jewish loyalty oath, in clear violation of the legal and 
religious freedoms of the Arab population in Israel. 
Moreover,  the  passage  of  the  most  recent  bill  of 

the 
Israeli  Parliament,  which  set  stringent  new 
conditions  before  any  withdrawal  from  the  occupied 
Arab  territories  illegally  annexed  by  Israel  can  occur, 
contradicts  and  grossly  violates,  yet  again, 
its 
obligations  under  international  law.  Despite  preaching 
about  peace,  Israel  continues  to  send  clear  negative 
messages to the world  about its intentions to  continue 
its occupation of the Arab lands occupied in 1967 and 
to  entrench  all  of  the  obstacles  that  would  prevent 
withdrawal,  thus  preventing  achievement  of  peace  in 
the Middle East. 

The Non-Aligned Movement stresses that serious 
and  genuine  negotiations  cannot  be  conducted,  while 
Israel  continues  to  carry  out  its  illegal  actions  in  the 
occupied  Palestine  territory,  including  East  Jerusalem, 
particularly  its  settlements  activities.  We  reiterate  our 
demand to Israel to promote an environment conducive 
for  peace,  including  by  refraining  from  provocations 
and actions aimed at altering the status of the occupied 
Palestinian territory in the West Bank, particularly East 
Jerusalem,  and  from  prejudging  the  outcome  of  the 
final  status  negotiations,  and  to  constructively  engage 
with  international  efforts  to  ensure  the  resumption  of 
leading 
Israel  on 
14 

10-65551 


negotiations and the achievement of a just, lasting and 
comprehensive  solution  to  the  conflict  in  the  Middle 
East. 
The international community must act to prevent 

the 
the 
total  demise  of  direct  negotiations  on 
Palestinian track. The Non-Aligned Movement stresses 
the  need  for  the  international  community  to  remain 
united  in  its  demand  that  Israel  respect  its  legal 
obligations  as  an  occupying  Power  and  ceases 
forthwith its violations. 
Accountability at the current stage is imperative, 

and the international community must not waver in its 
demands. That is in the interest of both the Palestinian 
and  the  Israeli  peoples,  as  well  as  of  the  Middle  East 
region as a whole and beyond. 

Indeed,  such  respect  is  imperative  for  achieving 
the  two-State  solution  based  on  the  agreed  terms  of 
reference,  namely,  Security  Council  resolutions  242 
(1967),  338  (1973),  1397  (2002),  1515  (2003)  and 
1850 (2008), the Madrid terms of reference, including 
the  principle  of  land  for  peace,  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative  and  the  Road  Map,  which  will  enable  us  to 
realize  a  just,  lasting,  comprehensive  and  peaceful 
settlement of the question of Palestine, the core of the 
Arab-Israeli conflict. 

its 
unwavering  commitment  to  a  just  and  comprehensive 
solution  to  the  question  of  Palestine  and  to  the 
immediate  restoration  of  the  inalienable  rights  of  the 
Palestinian  people,  including  their  right  to  exercise 
self-determination 
their 
independent,  viable  State  of  Palestine  with  East 
Jerusalem as its capital. 
Mr.  Grauls  (Belgium):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU).  The 
candidate  countries  Turkey,  Croatia,  and  the  former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia;  the  countries  of  the 
Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidates  Albania,  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina, 
Montenegro  and  Serbia;  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the 
Republic  of  Moldova  and  Armenia  align  themselves 
with this statement. 

the  negotiation  process 
between  Israel  and  the  Palestinian  side,  which  took 
place in Washington on 2 September 2010, gave rise to 
much  hope  and  many  expectations  on  all  sides  of  the 
international community. 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement 
The  relaunching  of 
sovereignty 
reaffirms 
and 
in 
A/65/PV.53
is  no  alternative 

The  High  Representative  of  the  European  Union 
for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Security  Policy,  Catherine 
Ashton,  stated  on  3  September  that  the  parties  must 
engage in that process with determination to overcome 
the  obstacles  and  work  fast  and  hard  on  all  the  final 
status issues to meet the Quartet’s call for a negotiated 
settlement within one year. 

Similar  calls  were  heard  from  many  other  actors 
in  the  international  community,  and  the  importance  of 
creating  mutual  trust  and  confidence  between  the 
parties  was  underlined  many  times,  not  least  by  the 
European  Union.  On  21  September  2010,  the  Middle 
East  Quartet  itself  stated  unequivocally  that  both 
parties  need  to  promote  an  environment  conducive  to 
progress,  including  by  refraining  from  provocative 
actions and inflammatory rhetoric. 

Today,  we  meet  at  a  moment  when  efforts  are 
being  undertaken  to  overcome  the  current  deadlock  in 
those  negotiations.  There 
to  a 
negotiated  two-State  solution.  The  European  Union 
calls  on  all  parties  to  seek  earnestly  for  a  satisfactory 
way to keep the negotiation process active and moving, 
and then, to gather momentum. 

The  European  Union  recalls  that  settlements  in 
the  occupied  territory  are  illegal  under  international 
law,  constitute  an  obstacle  to  peace  and  threaten  to 
make a two-State solution impossible. We reiterate our 
call on Israel to end all settlement activities, including 
in East Jerusalem. 

If there is to  be a genuine  peace,  a way  must be 
found  through  negotiations  to  resolve  the  status  of 
Jerusalem  as  the  future  capital  of  two  States.  The 
European  Union  continues  to  call  for  a  complete  stop 
to  all  violence,  in  particular,  rocket  fire  and  terrorist 
attacks. 

When the Union’s High Representative, Catherine 
Ashton, visited the region in the beginning of October, 
she discussed with the Palestinian Authority the work it 
is  doing  to  build  the  institutions  for  statehood.  The 
European Union takes note of the assessment made by 
the  World  Bank,  which  stated  that,  if  the  Palestinian 
Authority  maintains  its  current  performance,  it  is 
well-positioned for the establishment of a State at any 
point in the near future. 

the  crucial 
importance of the continuation of the Palestinian State-
building  process,  which  the  Union  will  continue  to 
The  European  Union 
stresses 
10-65551 

15 

A/65/PV.53 

actively  support,  including  the  implementation  of  the 
Fayyad  plan.  Political  and  financial  support  from  the 
entire international community is essential. The Union 
urges  those  who  have  made  financial  commitments  to 
deliver  on  their  promises.  All  efforts  in  support  of 
President  Mahmoud  Abbas  aimed  at  achieving 
Palestinian reconciliation must also be accelerated. 

The  European  Union  welcomes  recent  measures 
taken  to  ease  restrictions  on  movement  in  the  West 
Bank and the entry of goods into Gaza, and stresses the 
need  for further steps to be taken in that regard. Such 
steps  would  improve  living  conditions  and  could 
promote  Palestinian  economic  development.  The 
European Union reminds Israel and all other parties of 
their  obligation  to  respect  the  human  rights  of  the 
Palestinian population in the occupied Arab territories. 

As  regards  Gaza  in  particular,  the  European 
Union  calls  for  the  full  implementation  of  Security 
Council resolution 1860 (2009), for the full respect of 
international  humanitarian  law  and  for  an  immediate, 
sustained  and  unconditional  opening  of  crossings  for 
the  flow  of  humanitarian  aid,  commercial  goods  and 
persons  to  and  from  Gaza,  including  goods  from  the 
West Bank. 
In that context, the European Union calls for the 

full 
implementation  of 
the  2005  Agreement  on 
Movement and Access. The Union welcomes the recent 
measures  announced  by  the  Israeli  Government  as  an 
important step forward. However, more is needed. 

The European Union calls for full implementation 
and  complementary  measures  in  order  to  achieve  a 
fundamental  change  of  policy  that  allows  for  the 
reconstruction  and  economic 
recovery  of  Gaza, 
including  through  exports.  The  European  Union  has 
offered  its  assistance  for  achieving  that  objective,  and 
it  calls  for  a  solution  addressing  Israel’s  legitimate 
security concerns. 

The  European  Union  reiterates  its  readiness  to 
contribute  substantially  to  the  comprehensive  and 
sustainable solution to be found with the State of Israel 
and an independent, democratic, contiguous and viable 
State  of  Palestine  living  side  by  side  in  peace  and 
security. 
Mr. Al-Jarman (United Arab Emirates) (spoke in 

Arabic):  I  am  pleased  that  we  meet  each  year  at  this 
time  to  mark  the  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with 
the Palestinian People and to renew our commitment to 
their 
include 
all 
the 
the 
last  session  of 
the 
in  particular 
inalienable  rights  of 
right 
the 
the  realization  of 
Palestinian  people, 
to 
self-determination  and  their  right  to  establish  an 
independent State, like other peoples. 

Today,  more  than  six  decades  after  the  adoption 
of that resolution, we find that the question of Palestine 
remains  unresolved.  Despite 
sustained 
international  and  regional  efforts  made  so  far  — 
including the recent intensive efforts sponsored by the 
United  States,  which  led  to  the  resumption  of  direct 
talks  between  the  Palestinian  and  Israeli  sides  on  
2  September  2010  after  seven  rounds  of  indirect 
primary  talks  —  the  situation  remains  critical  and 
dangerous.  Soon  after  those  talks  began,  they  were 
inevitably  hampered  by  the  ongoing  illegal  settlement 
activities  in  the  Palestinian  territories  undertaken  by 
Israel, the occupying Power. The most serious of those 
activities  since 
the  General 
Assembly  was  perhaps  the  construction  of  more  than 
600 housing units in 60 illegal settlements in the West 
Bank and East Jerusalem. 

Israeli practices and acts of aggression against the 
Palestinian  people  are  not  limited  to  the  serious 
expansion  of  illegal  settlements  in  the  Palestinian 
territories  and  the  transfer  of  Israeli  settlers  to  those 
settlements.  They  also 
repeated  military 
incursions  into  Palestinian  territories,  restrictions  on 
the  movement  of  Palestinian 
illegal 
detentions,  the  granting  of  impunity  to  extremist 
settlers  responsible  for  acts  of  violence  against  the 
Palestinians  and  the  ongoing  blockade  of  the  Gaza 
Strip.  Such  practices  and  acts  further  include  the 
blocking  of  repair,  maintenance  and  rebuilding  plans 
for Palestinian homes and institutions destroyed during 
the  Israeli  war  against  Gaza  in  2008,  including 
infrastructure  projects  relating  to  electricity  networks 
and  sewage  treatment  plants,  as  well  as  educational, 
health and social institutions supervised by the United 
Nations  Relief  and  Works  Agency  for  Palestine 
Refugees  in  the  Near  East  and  other  United  Nations 
programmes and international organizations. 

Therefore,  the  United  Arab  Emirates  renews  its 
strong condemnation of all those Israeli practices. They 
warrant  total  rejection  because  they  are  undertaken  in 
flagrant  violation  of  provisions  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter and international law, as well as of resolutions 
of 
international 
humanitarian  law,  in  particular  the  Fourth  Geneva 
Convention of 1949. 
citizens, 
international 
legitimacy 
and 
16 

10-65551 
the 
their 
relevant 
reaffirm 
While  we 
international 
its  siege  against 
the  primary  and 
those  violations  and 



Furthermore,  we  wish  to  express  our  concern 
about  the  international  community’s  ongoing  inability 
to  address 
serious 
consequences. 

joint 
responsibility of the United Nations and its specialized 
agencies  vis-à-vis 
the  question  of  Palestine,  we 
demand  that  the  Security  Council  and  the  Quartet 
shoulder their responsibilities for addressing the Israeli 
violations.  They  must  adopt  a  set  of  procedures  and 
concrete measures that pressure Israel and compel it to 
implement 
resolutions, 
including those calling for halting the illegal settlement 
campaign in the Palestinian territories, dismantling the 
separation  wall,  and  halting  measures  of  extreme 
violence  and  closures  and 
the 
Palestinian people. Those steps must be taken in order 
to  prepare  the  right  climate  for  resuming  direct 
negotiations,  in  compliance  with  Israel’s  obligations 
under  the  principles  of  the  Oslo  Conference,  the 
understandings  of  Sharm  el-Sheikh,  the  terms  of 
reference of the Road Map and relevant United Nations 
resolutions. 

While we look forward to  seeing  Israel  abide by 
its  recent  decision  to  withdraw  from  the  northern  part 
of  the  Lebanese  village  of  Al-Ghajar,  in  accordance 
with resolution 1701 (2006), we wish to emphasize that 
a just, permanent and comprehensive resolution of the 
Palestinian  question  and  the  Middle  East  problem  can 
be  achieved  only  through  ending  the  occupation  and 
through  a  full  and  unconditional  withdrawal  of  Israel 
from  all  the  Palestinian  and  Arab  territories  it  has 
occupied  since  1967,  including  East  Jerusalem,  the 
Syrian Golan Heights and the Lebanese area of Shab’a, 
and  through  the  fair  settlement  of  the  Palestinian 
refugee  problem  and  halting  daily  breaches  of 
Lebanese sovereignty. 

In that regard, we hope that current peace efforts 
are  strengthened  with  a  view  towards  reinvigorating 
Arab-Israeli  peace  negotiations 
in 
fulfilment of commitments under international law and 
the  resolutions  of  international  legitimacy  and  in 
accordance  with  the  principle  of  land  for  peace  based 
on the 1967 borders and the Arab Peace Initiative. The 
goal is to achieve the vision of establishing two States, 
Israel  and  Palestine,  living  side  by  side  within  secure 
borders  and  mutual  recognition,  bringing  stability, 
prosperity, cooperation and development to the peoples 
of the entire region. 
the  region, 
in 
A/65/PV.53
to 
support, 
alleviate 
in  order 
to  express 

The  United  Arab  Emirates  will  continue  its 
support  for  the  Palestinian  people  and  the  Palestinian 
Authority  led  by  President  Mahmoud  Abbas  as  they 
endeavour  to  put  an  end  to  Israel’s  occupation  of 
Palestine. We call upon the international community to 
increase its support of all kinds, including political and 
economic 
the 
humanitarian suffering of the Palestinian people and to 
enable them to rebuild and reconstruct their Palestinian 
national institutions. 

We hope that all members will vote in  favour of 
the draft resolutions under agenda items related to the 
Palestinian  question  and  the  situation  in  the  Middle 
East. 
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 

Arabic):  My  delegation  wishes 
its 
appreciation  of  the  Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the 
Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian  People  and  its 
Chairman, the Division for Palestinian Rights, and the 
special  information  programme  on  the  question  of 
Palestine  of  the  Department  of  Public  Information  of 
the  Secretariat  for  their  efforts  to  implement  the 
resolutions  of  international  legitimacy  on  the  question 
of  Palestine,  which  resolutions  all  call  for  putting  an 
end  to  the  more  than  six  decades-old  plight  and 
suffering of the Palestinian people. 

international  community 
reaffirmed its solidarity with the Palestinian people and 
its  commitment  to  support  them  in  their  struggle 
in  favour  of 
against 
self-determination, 
their 
independent State and the restoration of the totality of 
their legitimate rights. 

The suffering of the Palestinian people continues 
as  a  result  of  the  continuing  occupation  by  Israel  and 
its  racist  settlement  policy,  as  well  as  its  acts  of 
aggression,  including  the  killing  of  children  and 
women, 
the  ravaging  of  holy  places,  collective 
punishment,  the  inhumane  blockade,  the  building  of 
the  apartheid  separation  wall, 
the  detention  of 
the  cancerous 
thousands  of 
the 
settlement  act 
Palestinian 
occupied 
Jerusalem, aimed at erasing the cultural identity of that 
Holy City. 

Despite  the  adoption  by  the  United  Nations  of 
hundreds  of  resolutions  calling  on  Israel  to  end  its 
occupation  of  the  Palestinian  and Arab  territories  and 
innocent  people  and 
that  has  been  decreed 
in 
the  Israeli  occupation  and 
This  morning 
establishment 
territories, 
especially 
in  all 
of 
the 
the 
10-65551 

17 
respect 
the 
relevant 
through 
the  application  of 
independent  State  on 
its  Member  States  bear 
A/65/PV.53 

to stop its aggressive policies, Israel persists in defying 
international 
law  and 
rejects  compliance  with 
international resolutions. 

In the light of those tragedies, reflected in Israel’s 
defiance  and  rejection  of  the  will  of  the  international 
community,  on  the  one  hand,  and  in  the  continuing 
plight of the Palestinian people, on the other, it is now 
more  necessary  than  ever  for  the  United  Nations  to 
face  its  responsibilities  concerning  the  question  of 
Palestine 
its  relevant 
resolutions. Indeed, this international Organization was 
the very entity that adopted resolution 181 (II) in 1947. 
Consequently,  all 
the 
consequences of the lack of its implementation thus far. 

We would like to recall that resolution 273 (III), 
adopted  on  11  May  1949,  defined  the  conditions  for 
accepting  Israel’s  membership  in  the  United  Nations. 
Israel was to comply with the principles of the Charter 
and 
resolutions,  especially 
Assembly  resolutions  181  (II)  and  194  (III),  which 
both  stress  the  right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to 
establish  an 
their  national 
territory  and  the  right  of  the  Palestinian  refugees  to 
return  to  their  homeland,  from  which  they  were 
expelled by coercion. 

When accepting Israel as a Member of the United 
Nations,  the  General  Assembly  took  note  of  Israel’s 
statements  before  the  ad  hoc  Political  Committee  and 
its  commitment  to  implement  the  two  resolutions  just 
mentioned.  However, 
has 
disappeared,  as  noted  in  the  queries  addressed  by  the 
international  community  to  Israel.  That  sends  the 
wrong  message  to  Israel  from  the  Member  States  and 
implies  that  Israel  is  above  the  law,  consequently 
encouraging it to persist in its practices that violate all 
international laws and norms. 

In Israel, they speak of peace with hypocrisy, but 
their acts reveal that hypocrisy. They commit acts that 
are in contravention of the simplest principles of peace. 
They  continue  in  their  condemned  settlement  policy, 
the most recent development being the declaration that 
in  East 
they  will  build  1,300  settlement  units 
Jerusalem. 
they  seek 
negotiations  for  peace  on  the  basis  of  the  two-State 
solution.  Those  are  mere  words,  without  any  actual 
meaning, given the wanton settlement campaign being 
carried out in that land, which they claim is going to be 
the land of peace. 
commitment 
they  say 
that 
In 
Israel, 
that 


We  refer  in  particular  to  Israel’s  action  in 
Jerusalem.  It  has  intensified  its  efforts  to  Judaize  the 
city,  expel  its  Palestinian  inhabitants  and  support  and 
protect  the  extremist  acts  committed  by  hordes  of 
settlers,  thus  jeopardizing  the  security  and  safety  of 
that historic place. 

We  would  like  to  address  the  tragic  situation  in 
Gaza. As  everyone  knows,  it  is  a  result  of  the  Israeli 
act  of  aggression  against  Gaza,  which  resulted  in  the 
murder of hundreds of innocent persons. That has been 
stated  in  many  international  reports,  including  the 
Goldstone report (A/HRC/12/48), which stated frankly 
that Israel has targeted innocent civilians and described 
those  acts  of  aggression  as  war  crimes,  serious 
violations of international humanitarian law and crimes 
that  could  be  considered  crimes  against  humanity. 
Israel imposed a brutal siege on the people of Gaza and 
blocked  the  entry  of  essential  goods.  That  affected 
daily  life  inside  the  territory  of  Gaza  and  caused  a 
great deal of human suffering. 

That situation was condemned by the international 
community,  including  by  countries  friendly  to  Israel, 
which  called  for  the  lifting  of  the  siege  and  the 
reconstruction  of  what  Israel  destroyed.  But  Israel 
persisted  in  its  policy  of  siege  through  its  act  of 
aggression  against  the  freedom  flotilla  that  was  on  its 
way to Gaza on a purely humanitarian mission. It was 
an  initiative  by  the  international  civil  community  to 
provide  the  necessary  food,  medicine,  construction 
materials  and  educational  supplies  for  the  inhabitants 
of Gaza. Israel intercepted the flotilla’s ships and killed 
nine  peace  activists  on  board,  in  addition  to  injuring 
and detaining hundreds more. 
the 

Here,  we 
objectivity  of 
the  United  Nations 
Fact-Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict and we are 
awaiting  the  results  of  the  international  panel  of 
inquiry established by the Secretary-General. That has 
provided, in particular, the legal framework for taking 
into consideration the fact that Turkey has presented its 
report,  while  Israel,  as  usual,  has  not  presented  any 
information to the panel. 

At a time when the Arab States seek peace, Israel 
still 
responds  by  continuing 
inimical 
practices,  which  have  recently  reached  serious  stages. 
Thus,  it  shows  its  true  face  to  the  international 
community,  which  we  have  been  trying  to  expose  for 
decades. It still rejects peace and challenges those who 
register  our  satisfaction  at 
the  report  of 
its  many 
18 

10-65551 
the 
that 
international 
My  delegation  calls  on 
through  national  dialogue  so 


call  for  peace;  it  believes  in  racism,  aggression, 
settlement  and  occupation.  It  leads  the  peace  and 
security of the entire region into unknown territory. 

international 
community to pressure Israel by all possible means so 
that it might cease its acts of aggression, the blockade 
and  settlement  activity,  and  withdraw  from  all  the 
occupied Arab territories to the lines of 4 June 1967. 

The  Syrian  Arab  Republic  seeks  a  just  and 
comprehensive  peace  and  respect  for  all  Arab  rights, 
including  the  total  withdrawal  by  Israel  from  all  the 
occupied Arab territories to the borders of 4 June 1967, 
the establishment of a Palestinian State with Jerusalem 
as  its  capital,  the  settlement  of  the  question  of 
Palestinian  refugees  in  accordance  with  the  relevant 
resolutions  of 
legitimacy,  especially 
resolution  194  (III)  and  Security  Council  resolutions 
242 (1967), 338 (1973), and the Arab Peace Initiative. 
We reiterate the need to restore national unity in 

Palestine 
the 
necessary  negotiations  in  Palestine  can  take  place  and 
so  that  the  will  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  exercise 
their just rights can be achieved. 
(Indonesia):  Let  me  begin  by 

expressing  my  delegation’s  appreciation 
the 
Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of 
the  Palestinian  People  for  its  annual  report  (A/65/35), 
and  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his  reports  on  the 
peaceful  settlement  of 
the  question  of  Palestine 
(A/65/380  and  Add.1)  and  on  the  situation  in  the 
Middle East (A/65/379 and A/65/380 and Add.1). 

My delegation wishes to associate itself with the 
statement  made  earlier  by  the  representative  of  Egypt 
on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

One year after we last met to deliberate on these 
two agenda items — the question of Palestine and the 
situation  in  the  Middle  East  —  the  dynamics  on  the 
ground in the Middle East, with particular reference to 
Palestine,  have  not  changed.  The  harrowing  story  of 
appalling 
humanitarian 
conditions  all  over  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory 
continues. 

In the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, Palestinians 
continue  to  be  deprived  and  to  suffer  socio-economic 
dislocation and hardships. Obstacles and blockades that 
prevent  access  by  the  Palestinian  people  to  their 
resources  remain  firmly in  place. Mobility restrictions 
deteriorating 
Mr.  Kleib
still 
and 
to 
A/65/PV.53
is 
and 
viable, 
One  of 
territory, 
sovereign 
the  greatest  challenges 
facing 
the  unending  growth 
and  closure  policies  imposed  by  Israel  have  affected 
them  socially  as  well  as  economically.  Palestinians 
have  had  difficulties  in  accessing  essential  emergency 
humanitarian assistance. That collective punishment of 
an entire people is simply unjustifiable and should not 
stand. 

the 
Palestinian  people 
in 
settlements. Israel’s settlement policies and practices — 
which  are  aimed  at  altering 
the  demographic 
composition,  physical  character  and  status  of  the 
Palestinian 
including  Jerusalem  —  are 
nothing  but  blatant  violations  of  international  law. 
Israel’s  determination  to  continue  such  obnoxious 
policies  as  illegal  settlements,  construction  of  the 
separation  wall  and  restriction  of  the  Palestinian 
people’s rights is the greatest obstacle to establishing a 
physically 
independent 
Palestinian State, and thus to achieving peace. 

The  Middle  East  conflict,  with  the  question  of 
Palestine  at  its  core,  remains  unsettled  despite  many 
efforts  made  in  various  quarters.  It  remains  the  most 
volatile  conflict  in  the  world  today  and  continues  to 
pose a clear danger to international peace and security. 
The  intractability  of  the  conflict  is  a  matter  of  deep 
concern 
that 
unprecedented  steps  should  be  taken  by  all  parties 
concerned to end it. 
Hopefully  sooner,  not  later,  there  will  come  a 

moment  when  a  once-and-for-all  solution 
the 
conflict  is  agreed  on  and  found  acceptable  by  all 
parties.  At  the  present  stage,  however,  it  is  hard  to 
imagine  the  victory  of  peace  emerging  from  an 
extraordinary, one-time, lofty solution. We can always 
hope for an Oslo or Madrid or Annapolis type of effort, 
but  at 
to  appreciate  and 
encourage  positive  developments,  on  any  scale,  that 
keep the peace process in motion. 

Indonesia  therefore  joins  others  in  keeping  a 
close  eye  on  the  direct  political  negotiations  that 
resumed  between  Israel  and 
in 
September. We hope all the parties will take advantage 
of  the  opportunity  and  not  let  it  slip  from  their  grasp. 
We  are  therefore  greatly  concerned  about  Israel’s 
failure 
the  moratorium  on  settlement 
construction, as that is an obstacle that the direct talks 
may not be able to surmount. 
to  my  delegation.  We  believe 
this  moment  we  have 
the  Palestinians 
to  extend 
to 
10-65551 

19 
law  and 
international 
troop-contributing  countries 
A/65/PV.53 


If Israel has a genuine commitment to peace, not 
mere propaganda statements, it must stop all settlement 
construction,  expansion  and  planning  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territory,  including  East  Jerusalem,  and 
dismantle  the  settlements  built  there,  in  compliance 
with 
the  relevant  Security 
Council  resolutions.  Israel  must  avoid  putting  any 
obstacles  in  the  way  of  achieving  peace  and  must 
operate  within  the  ambit  of  international  law,  not 
outside or above it. 

A  truly  comprehensive  and  lasting  peace  in  the 
Middle East requires a solution not only to the conflict 
between  Israel  and  Palestine,  but  also  on  the  Israel-
Lebanon and Israel-Syria tracks. 

On the Israel-Lebanon track, much remains to be 
done  in  order  to  realize  the  goals  of  a  permanent 
ceasefire  and  a  long-term  solution,  as  envisioned  in 
Security Council resolution 1701 (2006). As one of the 
major 
the  United 
Nations  Interim  Force  in  Lebanon,  Indonesia  will 
continue  to  support  the  early  achievement  of  those 
goals.  Meanwhile,  it  is  also  obvious  that  negotiations 
on the Israel-Syria track require new vigour if they are 
to  recommence.  Signs  of  reinvigoration 
through 
indirect  talks  are  now  discernible,  however,  and  we 
encourage them. A comprehensive peace in the Middle 
East must have progress on those two tracks, based on 
the relevant resolutions of the Security Council. 

For far too long the Middle East conflict has been 
a blemish on international peace. For far too long it has 
been  an  obstacle  to  the  creation  of  a  peaceful  and 
liveable  region.  For  more  than  60  years,  the  illegal 
Israeli  occupation  has  made  the  region  a  theatre  of 
tension  and  violence.  The  international  community 
must  raise  its  voice  and  rise  in  cooperation  to  ensure 
that  Israel  stops  its  inhuman  policies  and  to  bring  the 
illegal Israeli occupation to an end. 

Today’s  observance  of  the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity with the Palestinian People therefore provides 
an  opportunity  for  the  international  community  to 
reflect on its role in and contributions to advancing the 
objective of a two-States vision. It is the day when the 
international  community  reaffirms  its  commitment  to 
the  Palestinian  people  and  to  the  establishment  of  an 
independent,  viable  and  sovereign  State  of  Palestine, 
living  side  by  side  in  peace  and  security  with  its 
neighbours. 
to 


Indonesia, for its part, is committed to the efforts 
to  find  a  peaceful,  just,  lasting  and  comprehensive 
settlement  to  the  conflict,  based  on  the  relevant 
Security  Council  resolutions,  the  Madrid  terms  of 
reference  and  the  principle  of  land  for  peace,  and  the 
Arab Peace Initiative. 

Let  me  conclude,  Mr.  President,  by  expressing 
our  fervent  hope  that  2011  will  be  the  year  that  the 
international community will fulfil its obligation to the 
Palestinian  people,  and  a  year  of  remarkable  progress 
and transformation in the history of the Middle East. 
Mr.  Alsaadi  (Yemen)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 

outset,  I  would  like  to  say  that  it  is  a  pleasure  to 
observe  the  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian  People. This  tradition  has  certain  political, 
moral  and  humanitarian  implications  that  have  been 
put  forth  by  our  Organization  for  half  a  century. 
Foremost  among  them  is  support  for  those  oppressed 
peoples  struggling  under  the  yoke  of  occupation. 
Today’s celebration confirms once more the legitimacy 
of the struggle of the Palestinian people and their right 
to resist occupation and establish an independent State 
on their national territory, with Jerusalem as its capital. 

The  tragic  situation  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories  results  from  assassination,  genocide,  State 
terrorism,  policies  of  deportation  and  the  construction 
of  the  separation  wall  on  Palestinian  land,  as  well  as 
Israel’s  persistence  in  building  settlements,  enforcing 
isolation and siege and imposing collective punishment 
on  an  entire  population. All  such  policies  run  counter 
to  the  principles  of  international  law,  the  Fourth 
Geneva Convention and the relevant resolutions of the 
General Assembly and the Security Council. 

All  those  aggressive  practices  could  bury  alive 
the  peace  process  and  the  efforts  of  the  Quartet, 
supported by the international community. In addition, 
real  dangers  result  from  such  escalation  that  could 
plunge the region into a cycle of violence and terrorism 
and  could  jeopardize  the  stability  and  security  of  the 
region and the world. 

My  delegation  appreciates  the  position  declared 
by  United  States  President  Barack  Obama  in  his 
statement before the General Assembly on 23 September 
2010  (see  A/65/PV.11),  and  we  hope  that  it  will  be 
translated 
including 
recognition  of  an  independent  Palestinian  State  along 
the  borders  of  4  June  1967,  with  Jerusalem  as  its 
capital. 
into  action  on 
the  ground, 
20 

10-65551 



We also call on the United States Administration 
to  continue  its  efforts  to  pave  the  way  for  putting  the 
peace  process  back  on  track,  beginning  with  prompt 
and unconditional cessation of all settlement activities, 
including  in  East  Jerusalem, so  that  the  peace  process 
can 
resume.  The  unprecedented  construction  of 
settlements  in  the  occupied  Arab  territories  is  a 
provocation  directed  against  efforts  to  revive  the 
climate for a peaceful resolution and is an escalation of 
Israeli  activity,  while  the  peace  negotiations  have 
reached  an  impasse.  That  is  proof  of  the  Israeli 
Government’s intentions to establish settlements, not a 
just  and  comprehensive  peace  in  the  region.  Israel 
bears  direct  responsibility  for  the  collapse  of  peace 
efforts through such provocative acts. 
I would like to reiterate that a comprehensive and 

just  peace  can  be  realized  only  through  complete 
Israeli withdrawal from the occupied Arab territories to 
the  lines  of  4  June  1967,  including  the  Syrian  Golan 
and remaining Lebanese land, and the establishment of 
an independent Palestinian State, with Jerusalem as its 
capital, in accordance with United Nations resolutions. 
In that context, we call on the United Nations and 

the 
international  community 
their 
responsibilities  to  ensure  the  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people  and  to  compel  Israel  to  end  its  policy  of 
violence  and  State  terrorism  and  to  act  in  accordance 
with 
international 
legitimacy  and  other  initiatives,  including  the  Arab 
Peace Initiative, so as to restart peace negotiations for 
achieving peace in the region. 

three  years  Gaza  has  been 
enduring  the  illegal  and  inhuman  siege  that  has 
paralysed  its  economy  and  led  to  the  deterioration  of 
the living, health, human and social conditions of more 
than  1,700,000  Palestinian  civilians. We  therefore  call 
on  the  international  community  to  take  the  necessary 
steps  to  end  the  intolerable,  oppressive  and  inhumane 
siege of Gaza as soon as possible. 
Mr.  Salam  (Lebanon)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In 

September,  Barack  Obama,  President  of  the  United 
States,  declared  from  this  rostrum  his  hope  that  a 
Palestinian  State  will  have  become  a  member  of  the 
United  Nations  by  the  next  session  of  the  General 
Assembly (see A/65/PV.11). There is no doubt that the 
establishment  of  a  Palestinian  State  on  Palestinian 
territory,  together  with  the  right  of  its  people  to 
the  resolutions,  agreements  of 
For  more 
shoulder 
than 
to 
A/65/PV.53
territories, 
their  right 
to  exercise 
implementing 
self-determination, are inalienable rights recognized by 
the United Nations in resolution 3236 (XXIX). 

On  this  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the 
Palestinian  People,  we  wish  to  reaffirm  in  turn  in  the 
central  importance  of  establishing  a  Palestinian  State, 
with Jerusalem as its capital, and the right of return of 
Palestinian refugees, in accordance with resolution 194 
(III), as part of a lasting and comprehensive solution to 
the Arab-Israeli  conflict. That  requires  the  withdrawal 
of  Israel  from  all  occupied  Arab 
in 
accordance with the provisions of international law, the 
Security  Council  resolutions,  the  Madrid  terms  of 
reference  and  the  principle  of  land  for  peace,  and  the 
Arab  Peace  Initiative.  In  that  connection,  we  wish  to 
commend  the  praiseworthy  efforts  of  the  international 
Quartet,  particularly  the  United  States  of America,  to 
resume the peace negotiations. 

However,  today  we  must  question  the  nature  of 
the  obstacles  that  still  prevent  us  from  reaching  a 
lasting  and  comprehensive  solution,  mainly  to  enable 
the  Palestinian  people 
to 
self-determination  as  enshrined  in  the  Charter,  which 
necessitates 
and 
respecting the provisions of international law. We wish 
to make the following 10 observations. 

First, the Charter prohibits aggression and the use 
of  force  to  resolve  conflicts.  Resolution  2625  (XXV), 
on  the  principles  of  international  law  concerning 
friendly  relations  and  cooperation  among  States, 
prohibits military occupation by force and recognition 
of the legitimacy of acquisition of any land in that way. 
In  fact,  Israel,  in  defiance  of  those  principles  and  the 
provisions  of  Security  Council  resolution  242  (1967), 
has persisted for 43 years in its occupation through its 
armed  aggression  against  the  Arab,  Palestinian  and 
Syrian territories and its annexation of East Jerusalem 
and the Golan. 

Second, the second paragraph of Article 1 of the 
Charter  and  common  article  1  of  the  International 
Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights and 
the  International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political 
Rights  provide  for  respect  of  peoples’  right 
to 
self-determination.  The  greatest  obstacle  to  achieving 
this  is  Israel’s  continuing  occupation  of  Palestinian 
land and other Arab territories. 

Third,  the  General  Assembly  has  called  for 
putting an end to colonialism, in resolution 1514 (XV), 
the  crime  of  apartheid  and 
and  for  suppressing 
resolutions 
the 
10-65551 

21 
in 
that 
describes 
its  perpetrators, 
A/65/PV.53 

punishing 
resolution  3068 
(XXVIII).  Article  7  of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court 
racial 
discrimination as a crime against humanity. We wish to 
mention  that,  in  his  report  this  year  (see  A/65/331),  
Mr.  Richard  Falk,  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  situation 
of  human  rights  in  the  Palestinian  territories  occupied 
since  1967,  like  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Jean  Dugard,  in 
his  report  to  the  Human  Rights  Council  in  January 
2007  (see  A/HRC/4/17),  noted  the  ongoing  Israeli 
occupation  and 
resembled 
colonialism  and  apartheid,  owing  to  the  continuation 
and  expansion  of  the  settler  policy,  on  the  one  hand, 
and 
and 
discriminatory  policies  on  citizenship,  ownership  of 
property,  courts  of  law  and  freedom  of  movement,  on 
the other hand. 

Council 

Fourth,  in  its  resolution  446  (1979)  the  Security 
“determines that the policy and practices of Israel 
in  establishing  settlements  in  the  Palestinian  and 
other  Arab  territories  occupied  since  1967  have 
no 
legal  validity  and  constitute  a  serious 
obstruction  to  achieving  a  comprehensive,  just 
and lasting peace in the Middle East” 
its  perpetuation 
regulations 
adoption 
laws, 
the 
of 


Fifth,  Security  Council  resolution  252  (1968), 
after  recalling  General  Assembly  resolutions  2253 
that 
(ES-V)  and  2254  (ES-V)  and  “reaffirming 
acquisition  of 
is 
inadmissible”, states that  
territory  by  military  conquest 

their 
It  has 
renewing 
intensified  settlement 
“all  legislative  and  administrative  measures  and 
actions taken by Israel, including expropriation of 
land and properties thereon, which tend to change 
the legal status of Jerusalem are invalid”.  
It also  
“calls  upon  Israel  to  rescind  all  such  measures 
already taken and to desist forthwith from taking 
any  further  action  which  tends  to  change  the 
status of Jerusalem”. 

Neither that resolution nor similar resolutions that 
followed it deterred Israel from its quest to change the 
demographic,  legal  and  infrastructure  situation  in 
Jerusalem. 
in  East 
Jerusalem, where settlers now number around 200,000. 
Moreover,  Israel  has  brought  pressure  to  bear  on  the 
native Palestinian citizens, aimed at expelling them by 
not 
residence  permits  and  by 
demolishing  their  houses.  More  dangerous  than  that, 
Israel  has  annexed  East  Jerusalem  and  has  considered 
that,  by  virtue  of  legislation  it  passed  in  1980, 
Jerusalem is the unified, indivisible capital of Israel in 
perpetuity.  That  concept  was  condemned  by  Security 
Council  resolution  478  (1980),  but  that  did  not  deter 
Israel  from  continuing  its  attempt  to  Judaize  East 
Jerusalem  and  its  surroundings  through  intensified 
settlement activity and to harass its Arab inhabitants in 
Ras  al-Amud,  Sheikh  Jarrah  and  Silwan,  as  we  have 
recently witnessed. 

Sixth,  the Advisory  Opinion  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  on  the  separation  wall  considers  the 
construction  of 
in  violation  of 
international law, especially given Israel’s responsibility 
to  respect  the  territorial  integrity  of  the  land  it  has 
occupied.  It  also  undermines  the  Palestinians’  right  to 
self-determination. Israel continues in wilful repudiation 
of  international  law  to  build  the  wall  and  to  seize  the 
territories  between 
the  Green  Line, 
in 
preparation for annexing the settlements in that area. 
the  Fourth  Geneva 

Convention  prohibits 
the  occupying  Power  from 
moving parts of its own population into the territory it 
occupies.  Article  33  of  that  Convention  prohibits 
Seven,  article  49  of 
the  wall 
it  and 
to  be 
and 

to  rescind 
“calls  once  more  upon  Israel,  as  the  occupying 
Power, to abide scrupulously by the 1949 Fourth 
Geneva  Convention, 
its  previous 
measures  and  to  desist  from  taking  any  action 
which  would  result  in  changing  the  legal  status 
and  geographical  nature  and  materially  affecting 
the  Arab 
the  demographic  composition  of 
territories  occupied 
since  1967, 
including 
Jerusalem, and, in particular, not to transfer parts 
of  its  own  civilian  population  into  the  occupied 
Arab territories”. 
Neither  that  resolution  nor  any  of  the  many  other 
similar  ones  that  followed  has  stopped  Israel  from 
maintaining  its  settlement  policy.  The  latest  statistics 
show that the number of Israeli settlements in the West 
Bank has reached 144, the number of illegal posts has 
reached  102  and  that  the  number  of  settlers  has 
surpassed  517,000.  That  number  has  increased  by  
4.9  per  cent  annually  since  1990,  while  the  overall 
Israeli  population  growth  was  about  1.5  per  cent 
annually. 
22 

10-65551 


collective punishment, a practice Israel has used in its 
blockade of Gaza since the middle of 2007. Article 55 
of the Convention provides that “to the fullest extent of 
the means available to it, the occupying Power has the 
duty  of  ensuring  the  food  and  medical  supplies  of  the 
population”.  The  regular  reports  issued  by  the  United 
Nations  Office  for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian 
Affairs  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories  indicate 
that  the  occupation  authorities  do  not  respect  that 
principle  of  the  Convention.  Of  the  inhabitants  in  the 
whole  occupied  West  Bank,  79  per  cent  lack  food 
supplies.  It  is  interesting  that  the  percentage  in  the 
West  Bank  is  greater  than  that  in  blockaded  Gaza, 
where it is 61 per cent. 

Eight,  in  addition  to  the  fact  that  Israel  does  not 
respect  the  principles  of  international  humanitarian 
law,  it  is  no  exaggeration  to  say  that  there  is  not  a 
single  aspect  of  human  rights,  as  set  down  in  the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights, 
the 
International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights 
and  the  International  Covenant  on  Economic,  Social 
and  Cultural  Rights,  that  Israel  is  not  violating.  It 
violates  the  human  dignity  of  people  in  subjecting 
them  to  discrimination,  intimidation  and  arbitrary 
detention, disrespecting their safety and property, while 
depriving  them  of  fair  trials,  personal  freedoms  and 
freedom  of  movement.  All  of  those  practices  are 
affirmed  in  the  periodic  reports  of  international  and 
United  Nations  bodies,  and  they  are  also  noted  in 
reports  of  international  human  rights  organizations, 
such  as  Amnesty  International  and  Human  Rights 
Watch. Those practices also appear in last year’s report 
of  the  United  Nations  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the 
Gaza  Conflict  (A/HRC/12/48)  under  the  chairmanship 
of Judge Richard Goldstone. 

Council, after  
Nine,  in  its  resolution  497  (1981)  the  Security 
“reaffirming  that  the  acquisition  of  territory  by 
force  is  inadmissible,  in  accordance  with  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  the  principles  of 
international  law  and  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions”,  
decided  
“that  the  Israeli  decision  to  impose  its  laws, 
jurisdiction  and  administration  in  the  occupied 
Syrian  Golan  Heights  is  null  and  void  and 
without international legal effect”  
and demanded that  
A/65/PV.53
“Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  should  rescind 
forthwith its decision”. 

As  is  the  case  in  East  Jerusalem,  Israel  did  not 
comply with Security Council resolutions and persisted 
in imposing its laws, jurisdiction and administration in 
the Golan Heights. In the West Bank it did not respect 
article  47  of  the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention  to  cease 
moving  its  inhabitants  into  the  occupied  territories, 
establishing  34  settlements  in  the  Golan  with  about 
20,000  settlers. Worse  than  that,  Israel  adopted  a  new 
law  on  22  November  that  requires  the  agreement  of 
two thirds of the members of the Knesset or a national 
referendum to approve any withdrawal from the Golan 
or  East  Jerusalem.  Israel  continues,  thereby,  to  reject 
its international responsibility, as set out in the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  and  General  Assembly  and 
Security  Council  resolutions,  in  contravention  of  all 
provisions of international law. 

Ten,  Security  Council  resolution  1701  (2006), 
adopted  after  Israel’s  aggression  against  Lebanon  in 
2006, calls for the withdrawal of Israeli troops from all 
Lebanese  territories,  but,  in  the  four  years  following 
the  adoption  of  the  resolution,  Israel  has  continued  to 
occupy  the  north  of  the  village  of  al-Ghajar  and  the 
area around it. It has not accepted to withdraw from the 
Shab’a  Farms  and  the  hills  of  Kfar  Shuba.  It  has 
rejected  our  proposals 
territories 
temporarily  under  United  Nations 
supervision. 
Moreover,  that  is  just  part  of  Israel’s  violation  of  the 
sovereignty of Lebanon by land, air and sea. 

In  the  light  of  those  obstacles  that  prevent  the 
achievement of a comprehensive and just peace in the 
Middle  East,  the  foremost  of  which  is  preventing  the 
Palestinians 
to 
self-determination,  there  is  no  doubt  that  the  best 
formula  for  showing  solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
people  would  be  for  the  United  Nations  to  actually 
unite  and  overcome  its  inability  to  implement  its  own 
resolutions. 
Mr. Núñez Mosquera (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 

Cuba  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement (NAM). 

On  this  occasion,  when  we  are  celebrating  the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People,  it  is  timely  that  the  international  community 
exercising 
from 
to  place 
those 
their 
right 
10-65551 

23 

It 
timely 
is  equally 
This  year, 
A/65/PV.53 

reaffirms  its  support  for  the  heroic  efforts  of  the 
Palestinian  people  in  their  struggle  to  exercise  their 
inalienable right to self-determination. 

that  we  reaffirm  our 
commitment  to  redouble  our  efforts  to  end  that 
injustice and to resolve the question of Palestine in all 
its  aspects,  including  a  just  solution  to  the  difficult 
situation of the Palestinian refugees. 

Cuba reiterates its solidarity with the Palestinian 
people  and condemns the  continued illegal occupation 
of its territory by Israel, which is the main obstacle to 
attaining a just, lasting and comprehensive peace in the 
region. 

We note with deep concern the increased number 
of  poor  people  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territories 
whose  basic  needs  are  not  being  met.  Currently,  the 
poverty  rate  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory  is 
65.8  per  cent  and  in  the  besieged  Gaza  Strip  it  has 
reached  80  per  cent  of  the  population.  There,  the 
majority  depends  on  food  aid  in  order  to  survive  and 
more than 40 per cent are unemployed. 

the  occupied 
in 
Palestinian  territory,  including  East  Jerusalem,  has 
continued to deteriorate. Israel has continued to violate 
international 
international 
humanitarian  law.  As  a  result  of  the  Israeli  operation 
Cast  Lead  towards  the  end  of  2008  and  the  beginning 
of 2009, it was calculated that 280 of the 641 schools 
in Gaza were damaged and 18 were destroyed. 

More  than  half  of  the  inhabitants  of  Gaza  are 
under  the  age  of  18,  and  the  interruption  of  their 
education  owing  to  the  damage  caused  during  the 
operation  and  as  a  result  of  the  Israeli  blockade,  has 
had a devastating effect. 

Reconstruction  work  in  Gaza  following  the  war 
has still not begun, because of the array of bureaucratic 
procedures and restrictions that the Israeli Government 
has imposed on access to construction equipment. 

As part of the inhumane blockade the residents of 
the  Gaza  Strip  are  subject  to,  Israel  has  continued  to 
severely limit the movement of Palestinians, imposing 
a  humiliating  and  discriminatory  network  of  hundreds 
of  control  points  and  has  continued  its  policy  of 
closing  crossings,  erecting  physical  barriers  on  the 
roads used by Palestinians, limiting the movement both 
of persons and of goods, such as foods, medicine, fuel, 
among other essential humanitarian supplies. 
law,  human  rights  and 
situation 
the 
the 
the 
continued 
to 
Israel  has 
Unfortunately, 
that  continues 
Cuba  condemns 
the  super-Power 
repeated  calls  by 
that  aggressive  policy 
that 

ignores 
international 
community  and  the  successive  resolutions  adopted  by 
various bodies of the United Nations. We call on Israel 
to immediately lift the Gaza blockade. 

The impunity with which the Israeli Government 
acts  is  only  possible  because  of  the  protection  it 
receives  from 
to 
provide  it  with  financial  resources  and  arms  that 
sustain its aggressive policy. 
the  Security  Council  remains 

unable  to  seriously  address  the  Palestinian  question, 
owing  to  the  application  of  double  standards  and  the 
exercise  of  the  constant  threat  of  veto  by  one  of  its 
permanent members with regard to any draft resolution 
that seeks to meet that objective. 

erect  barricades 
throughout  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory,  thus 
fragmenting  and  deeply  undermining  the  territorial 
integrity  and  contiguity  of  Palestine.  It  has  fully 
isolated East Jerusalem from the rest of the West Bank, 
which,  in  turn,  has  severely  damaged  Palestine’s 
economy and society as a whole. 
The  occupying  Power  has  maintained  intensive 

colonization  measures, 
ongoing 
confiscation  of  large  areas  of  land,  the  building  and 
extension of Israeli settlements and the building of the 
wall,  which  is  now  59  per  cent  completed.  Israel  has 
continued  to  build  the  wall,  flagrantly  flouting  and 
defying  the  Advisory  Opinion  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  and  violating  General  Assembly 
resolution  ES-10/15  of  20  July  2004,  which  reaffirms 
the  illegal  nature  of  the  construction  of  the  separation 
wall in the West Bank and East Jerusalem. 

In spite of the moratorium decreed by the Israeli 
Government, settlement activities continue, in particular 
in  the  West  Bank.  Those  activities  are  aimed  at 
modifying the demographic composition, the character, 
and the nature of the Palestinian lands, leading to their 
de  facto  annexation  through  the  confiscation  of  broad 
areas. 

The building and extension of illegal settlements 
belies  Israel’s  commitments  to  the  peace  negotiations 
and endangers the outcome of that process. In practical 
terms,  those  policies  prevent  the  existence  of  a 
Palestinian  State  with  pre-1967  borders  and 
the 
such 
as 
the 
24 

10-65551 
its  support  for 
the 
just  cause  of 
to  self-determination  and 


possibility  of  finding  a  just  solution  to  the  Israeli-
Palestinian conflict. 

Cuba  condemns  those  policies  and  practices, 
which  violate  international  law,  including  the  Fourth 
Geneva  Convention,  United  Nations  resolutions  and 
the  Advisory  Opinion  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice, and demands that Israel immediately end those 
illegal practices. 

On  this  occasion,  when  we  are  gathered  once 
again  to  address  the  Palestinian  question,  more  than  
60  years  after  the  beginning  of  this  debate,  Cuba 
reaffirms 
the 
Palestinian  people  and  their  efforts  to  attain  their 
legitimate national aspirations. 
Cuba  shall  continue  to  support  the  Palestinian 

people  in  their  struggle  to  put  an  end  to  the  Israeli 
occupation that began in 1967 and in their quest for a 
just,  peaceful  and  lasting  solution  to  the  Israeli-
Palestinian  conflict.  We  shall  not  rest  until 
the 
Palestinian  people  exercise  their  inalienable  rights, 
including 
to 
sovereignty as an independent State based on the 1967 
borders and with East Jerusalem as its capital. 
Mr. Reuben (Israel): What is most striking about 

today’s  debate  is  not  its  one-sidedness,  nor  its  rote 
condemnations of Israel that are divorced from facts on 
the  ground,  nor  the  fact  that  the  biased  resolutions 
before  us  reflect  nothing  more  than  the  negative 
political  dynamics  that  exist  in  the  United  Nations. 
Instead,  what  really  stands  out  this  afternoon  is  how 
little  today’s  debate  accomplishes  in  assisting  the 
Palestinian  people  to  realize  peace,  pursue  prosperity 
and  enjoy  self-determination  in  the  context  of  a 
two-State solution. 

As  we  have  seen  year  after  year,  today’s  debate 
offers  shallow  support  for  its  stated  purpose;  for  it  is 
clear 
the 
fundamental road to security and prosperity for Israelis 
and Palestinians alike. Instead of working to bring the 
parties 
in  meaningful  negotiations  and 
preparing  the  Palestinians  to  make  the  tough  choices 
that will be required to reach an agreement, this forum 
engages in the same ritual condemnation of Israel, thus 
feeding Palestinian notions of victimhood. So I say to 
my colleagues this evening: let us turn away from the 
destructive  rhetoric  that  continues  to  characterize  this 
annual  Day  of  Solidarity  and  begin  a  new  discussion 
serious,  direct  negotiations  are 
the  right 
that 
together 
A/65/PV.53
that  provides  meaningful  support  for  the  Palestinian 
people. 

The  modern  State  of  Israel  has  made  clear  from 
its  inception  that  we  believe  it  is  both  necessary  and 
possible  to  live  in  peace  with  our  neighbours.  This  
was  solemnly  emphasized 
in  our  Declaration  of 
Independence and has been proven through our historic 
peace 
treaties  with  Egypt  and  Jordan.  And  our 
commitment  to  that  principle  remains  steadfast  as  we 
continue to pursue peace in the region. 
But  it  takes  two  to  tango.  Israel  cannot  achieve 

that peace on its own. We can only achieve peace with 
the  Palestinians 
through  compromise  and  direct, 
bilateral  negotiations.  We  can  only  move  forward 
through bilateral negotiations that address the concerns 
of  both  sides. Any  peace  agreement  must  be  based  on 
the  fundamental  principles  of  mutual  recognition  and 
security.  After  generations  of  denying  the  Jewish 
people’s  historic  connection  to  the  land  of  Israel,  the 
Palestinians  must  unambiguously  abandon  their  quest 
to  make  that  land  their  homeland  alone  —  both  now 
and in the future. 
Unfortunately,  one  can  still  raise  questions  as  to 

whether the notion of living side-by-side with a Jewish 
State has been fully accepted by the Palestinian people. 
For example, in a recent poll, almost two thirds of the 
Palestinians  expressed  their  hope  that  eventually  a 
single  Palestinian  State  would  emerge  in  the  region, 
even if they supported a two-State solution in the short 
term. 
the  Palestinian 

leadership  must  be  clear  about  their  ultimate  aims. 
They must recognize Israel as the Jewish State for the 
Jewish people and turn away from messages of hatred 
and  delegitimization,  in  favour  of  educating  future 
generations about peace and coexistence. 

Any  peace  agreement  must  also  clearly  address 
Israel’s  legitimate  security  concerns,  which  stem  from 
the  difficult  reality  facing  our  citizens  on  the  ground. 
Practically  every  day  the  Israeli  civilian  population  is 
exposed  to  the  serious  threat  of  rockets  and  terror 
attacks  from  Palestinian  militants,  who  are  supported 
by  the  Iranian  and  Syrian  regimes  through  training, 
financing and arms. 

Let  me  mention  in  that  regard  that,  after  Israel 
dismantled  all  of  its  settlements  in  the  Gaza  Strip,  it 
received only terrorism and rocket fire on its towns and 
lasting  peace, 
To  establish 
10-65551 

25 

A/65/PV.53 

communities in return. Thousands of rockets have been 
launched  from  the  Hamas-controlled  area  since  2001, 
with  most  of  the  launchings  occurring  after  Israel 
withdrew from Gaza in 2005. Weapons continue to be 
transferred to terrorist organizations in Gaza daily. 

Any future agreement must address those security 
threats. To that end, the international community must 
unambiguously  confront  those  Member  States  that 
provide  extensive  support  for  the  enemies  of  peace  in 
our  region.  In  particular,  we  must  address  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  which  continues  to  export  violence, 
hatred and instability to the Middle East and beyond. 

My country has continued to show throughout the 
past  year  that  it  is  willing  to  take  bold  measures  to 
pursue  peace. 
to  encourage 
impressive  growth  in  the  Palestinian  economy  and 
removed  hundreds  of  roadblocks  and  checkpoints  in 
the West Bank. 
In  the  Gaza  Strip,  we  relaxed  the  restrictions 

imposed on the passage of civilian goods into the area 
and  expanded  the  inflow  of  materials  available  for 
projects  under 
international 
organizations,  which  provide  humanitarian  assistance 
for  a  Palestinian  population  that  remains  hostage  to  a 
hostile terrorist entity. 
Israel  has  helped 
supervision  of 
the 
I 
It 
that 
Given 
is  clear 
real  dialogue  around 
the  opportunities  before  us, 

feel 
compelled  to  once  again  call  on  the  Palestinians  and 
our other Arab neighbours to join Israel in making real 
compromises  and  taking  courageous  action  to  bring 
peace  to  our  region. As  such,  we  are  hopeful  that  the 
Palestinian Authority will return, without preconditions, 
to  direct  peace  negotiations  with  Israel,  which  were 
broken off two months ago. 

the 
negotiating table — and not the tired diatribe that has 
characterized  this  forum  —  is  the  only  path  to  peace 
for our two peoples. However, establishing peace is not 
a one-way, but a two-way street. Compromises on both 
sides will be necessary for meaningful negotiations. 

The  General  Assembly  has  a  clear  choice  to 
make.  It  can  continue  to  adopt  the  same  distorted 
narrative about Israel in pursuit of a politicized agenda 
that  does  nothing  to  further  the  stated  purpose  of 
today’s  debate.  Or  it  can  take  a  more  constructive 
approach  and  work  to  bring  the  parties  together  to 
pursue peace, recognizing  that that is  the fundamental 
way to support the rights of the Palestinian people. 

The meeting rose at 6 p.m. 
26 

10-65551 
