
A/65/PV.45
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

45th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 4 November 2010, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 








  In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Ndong  Mba 
(Equatorial  Guinea),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m. 




  Report of the Secretary-General (A/65/552) 
  Draft resolution (A/65/L.9) 
Mr.  McLay
Agenda item 38 (continued)
The situation in Afghanistan 



(New  Zealand):  New  Zealand 
welcomes  the  opportunity  to  contribute  to  this  debate 
and  thanks  Germany  for  facilitating  negotiations  on 
today’s  draft  resolution  (A/65/L.9),  which  we  are 
happy to co-sponsor. 

It  has  been  nearly  10  years  since  New  Zealand 
first committed its Special Forces, and then provided a 
Provincial  Reconstruction  Team  in  Bamyan  Province, 
to 
strong 
international  support  to  meet  its  many  challenges. We 
did so acutely aware that as well as almost continuous 
internal  war, Afghanistan  had,  in  recent  memory,  seen 
the  1978  coup,  the  1979  Soviet  invasion  and  a 
repressive  Taliban  regime  that  brutalized  the  Afghan 
population,  oppressed  women,  quashed  education, 
supported global terrorism  and harboured an Al-Qaida 
insurgency.  Those  are  just  a  few  milestones  in  a 
difficult  history  in  which,  since  1978,  2  million 
civilians  have  died  and  many  more  have  fled  as 
refugees. 
support  an  Afghanistan 
that  needed 
to 
this 
them 
topic 
the  measure  of 

Afghanistan  has  come  a  long  way  since  then. 
Even  in  the  year  since  this  General  Assembly  last 
debated 
there  have  been  significant 
developments  —  parliamentary  elections,  the  London 
and  Kabul  conferences  and  the  Peace  Jirga  being 
notable  examples  of  events  that  have  contributed  to  a 
more secure country. 

Many  aspects  of  the  situation  in  Afghanistan 
might be addressed today, but in the interests of time I 
will  focus  on  just  four:  First,  New  Zealand  applauds 
those  millions  of  Afghans  who  voted  in  the  recent 
parliamentary  elections,  many  of 
facing 
intimidation  and  defying  threats  of  violence  to  elect 
their  parliament.  We  cannot  —  and  do  not  —  hold 
Afghanistan 
long-standing, 
established,  mature  democracies,  but  we 
are 
disappointed  that,  in  some  areas,  voting  could  not  be 
conducted  because  of  security  concerns  and  other 
deliberate obstruction of polling. 

On the other hand, while it is very troubling that 
almost  a  quarter  of  a  million  votes  cast  were 
invalidated  by  the  Independent  Electoral  Commission, 
it is positive that that action resulted from an oversight 
system that seems to be working and that Afghanistan 
was  able  to  conduct  those  elections  itself,  including 
keeping  the  level  of  violence  well  below  what  many 
had feared. It is also positive that the quota for women 
that, 
members  of  parliament  was  exceeded  and 
generally, 
diverse 
backgrounds and included a significant number of new 
candidates. All  that  said,  the  electoral  process  had  its 
shortcomings. We  would  now  call  on  the  Independent 
elected 
those 
came 
from 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-62052 (E) 
*1062052* 

tested 
A/65/PV.45 

Electoral Commission and others involved to maintain 
and  enhance  their  rigorous  oversight  over  all  such 
elections. Those who courageously voted are entitled to 
see  that  same  resolve  mirrored  in  those  they  elected 
and  to  expect  that  their  new  Parliament  and  all  levels 
of  Government  will  show  they  can  work  on  behalf  of 
and  be  accountable  to  all Afghans. That  would  ensure 
that the will of the people is reflected in the actions of 
the  Government  and  that  the  central  Government  and 
the provinces are connected as a cohesive whole. 

Secondly,  an  essential  element  of  capable  and 
credible  governance  is  the  elimination  of  corruption. 
Corruption is corrosive — it undermines domestic and 
international  confidence,  destroys  capacity,  hinders 
growth  and  has  sorely 
the  capacity  of 
contributing  nations  to  maintain  or  enhance  their 
contributions  to Afghanistan.  We  call  on  the  agencies 
of central Government and the new Parliament to set a 
priority on seeking out and eliminating corruption. 
Thirdly, while there have been improvements, we 

remain  concerned  at 
the  security  situation.  The 
parliamentary  elections  were  held  during  one  of 
Afghanistan’s  most  violent  periods  since  the  Taliban 
was  driven  from  power  —  violence  that  has  affected 
Afghans,  the  United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  in 
Afghanistan  (UNAMA), 
the  International  Security 
Assistance Force (ISAF) and others. Indeed, even with 
two months still to go, 2010 has already been for ISAF 
the deadliest year of the war. 

However, although the security situation remains 
tenuous, there have been some positive  developments. 
The  faster  than  expected  build-up  of  the  Afghan 
National  Security  Forces  and  this  year’s  increase  of 
nearly 40,000 ISAF troops are providing dividends that 
New Zealand believes must be reinvested in improved 
governance, 
economic 
development.  Those  dividends  will  also  help  ensure 
that  primary  responsibility  for  Afghanistan’s  security 
can  be  transferred  to  the  Afghan  National  Security 
Forces,  thus  allowing  international  forces  to  draw 
down  and  shift  the  focus  of  international  efforts  to 
building civilian capacities. 

For  its  part,  in  Bamyan  province,  New  Zealand 
leads  the  Provincial  Reconstruction  Team  and,  in 
Kabul,  our  special  forces  are  mentoring  the  Afghan 
Crisis  Response  Unit.  Bamyan  is  a  leading  candidate 
for  transition,  and  New  Zealand  is  committed  to 
programmes 
social 
and 

and 
rights 
hard-fought 
the  reconciliation  process  and, 
ensuring  that  the  province  can  assume  responsibility 
for its own security, governance and development. 

Fourthly,  the  security  challenges  in  Afghanistan 
are  a  reminder  that  fighting  alone  will  not  secure 
Afghanistan’s  future.  There  must  also  be  a  political 
solution  in  which  hard-core  insurgency  leaders  are 
further  isolated,  while  the  majority  are  integrated  into 
mainstream  society.  Accommodation  will  be  required 
on  all  sides  but  should  never  go  so  far  as  to 
compromise 
freedoms, 
especially  those  of  women  and  minorities. Those  who 
have put themselves in harm’s way in Afghanistan have 
not  done  so  to  witness,  again,  officially  sanctioned 
restrictions on human rights. 

The  High  Council  for  Peace  will  play  an 
important role in any such political settlement, as will 
Afghanistan’s  neighbours.  In  January,  New  Zealand 
was  encouraged  when  Pakistan  announced  its  backing 
for 
likewise,  we 
welcomed  the  June  Afghan-Pakistan  declaration  on 
bilateral  cooperation.  Pakistan  has  an  interest  in  a 
stable  State  on  its  western  border,  and  it  is  clear  that 
pressure  from  Pakistan  on  insurgents  could  be  critical 
in encouraging them to lay down their arms. Achieving 
peace  and  reconciliation  is  the  ultimate  responsibility 
of the Government and people of Afghanistan, but we 
also  look  forward  to  positive,  closer  engagement  of 
Pakistan  and  Afghanistan’s  other  near  neighbours  in 
that process. 

The situation in Afghanistan affects many of us in 
this  Assembly  —  whether  through  involvement  with 
UNAMA or ISAF, geographic proximity or because of 
the  insidious  effects  of  the  terrorism  that  was  once 
nurtured  on Afghan  soil. While  it  is  the  responsibility 
of  the Afghan  Government  to  lead  efforts  to  improve 
governance, stamp out corruption and foster a political 
solution to the conflict, all of us have a supporting role 
to  play.  For  its  part,  New  Zealand  is  committed  to 
supporting the Government and people of Afghanistan 
in Bamyan province, in Kabul and elsewhere. 

New Zealand soldiers were among the first to join 
the  campaign  against  terrorism  nearly  10  years  ago; 
New  Zealanders  were  among  the  first  to  commit  to 
Afghanistan’s  reconstruction;  and,  today,  we  continue 
to stand with the people of Afghanistan. They have our 
support  as  they  grow  as  a  nation,  and  they  have  our 
support in securing a better future for all Afghans. 
2 

10-62052 
to  oppose 


Mrs.  DiCarlo  (United  States  of  America):  The 

United States is pleased to join other Member States in 
co-sponsoring the General Assembly’s draft  resolution 
(A/65/L.9)  on  the  situation  in  Afghanistan.  The  draft 
resolution recognizes the progress made by the Afghan 
people 
in  building  a  stronger  Afghanistan  and 
acknowledges that much important work remains. 

We commend the significant contributions of the 
United  Nations  to  Afghanistan,  noting  especially  the 
crucial  roles  played  by  the  Secretary-General,  his 
Special  Representative  and  the  staff  of  the  United 
Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) 
and  other  United  Nations  agencies  on  the  ground. We 
also  salute  the  bravery  of  the  Afghan  security  forces 
and the International Security Assistance Force (ISAF), 
who are helping to build a more secure Afghanistan. 

Violent  attacks  by  the  Taliban,  Al-Qaida  and 
other  extremist  and  criminal  groups  threaten  our 
common efforts to achieve stability and security. Those 
groups  use  violence 
the  Afghan 
Government’s  vision  of  an Afghanistan  that  is  stable, 
secure, just and prosperous. 
the  draft 

resolution’s  firm  condemnation  of  such  violence, 
including the 23 October attack on the United Nations 
compound in Herat. We applaud the decisive response 
of  Afghan  security  forces  and  ISAF  to  that  attack, 
which averted greater bloodshed, and we welcome the 
United  Nations 
to 
Afghanistan, even in the face of such violence. 
The  United  States  joins  the Afghan  Government 

in  its  efforts  to  seek  a  political  resolution  to  the 
violence in Afghanistan through reconciliation, insofar 
as  insurgents  agree  to  cut  ties  to  Al-Qaida,  renounce 
violence against the Afghan State by laying down arms 
and  agree 
the  Afghan  Constitution, 
including  its  provisions  guaranteeing  the  rights  of 
women and all ethnic groups and religions. 
We  strongly  support  Afghanistan’s  sovereignty 

and  territorial  integrity  and  are  committed  to  a  long-
term partnership with Afghanistan. In that connection, 
we have more than tripled the number of United States 
civilians  working  in Afghanistan  from  320  in  January 
2009 to more than 1,000 today. 

The efforts of the United States, NATO and other 
ISAF contributor nations have focused increasingly on 
providing trainers  and  funding to develop and support 
that  vision  and  echo 
to  abide  by 
commitment 
We  share 
unwavering 
A/65/PV.45
the  Afghan  National  Security  Forces,  in  line  with 
President  Karzai’s  goal  to  have Afghanistan  take  over 
the  lead  security  responsibility  throughout  the  nation 
by  2014.  That  transition  will  be  governed  by  careful 
assessments  of  conditions  on  the  ground  and  the 
capacity of the Afghan forces. 

This July more than 60 nations and international 
organizations  recommitted  themselves  to  building  a 
stronger Afghanistan at the Kabul Conference. We call 
on  all  Member  States  to  redouble  their  efforts  to 
promote stability and prosperity for the Afghan people, 
along with peace and security for the region. 
We know there are great challenges ahead but the 

United  States  and  our 
international  partners  are 
working  closely  with  the  Afghan  people  to  support 
their  efforts  to  lay  the  foundation  for  a  better,  more 
stable and prosperous future. 
Mr.  Rivard  (Canada):  Canada  is  pleased  to 

co-sponsor  the  draft  resolution  before  us  on  the 
situation  in  Afghanistan  (A/65/L.9).  Once  again  this 
year,  we  warmly  welcome  the  fact  that  the  draft 
resolution  will  be  adopted  by  consensus, 
thus 
reaffirming the collective commitment of all the United 
Nations  Member  States  to  Afghanistan.  The  draft 
resolution  expresses  our  hope  and 
that 
Afghanistan,  with  the  support  of  the  international 
community,  will  continue 
in 
achieving a better life for its people. 

the  security 
situation  in  the  country,  but  we  note  that,  in  spite  of 
continued  challenges,  the  Afghan  National  Security 
Forces  are  growing 
in  confidence,  capacity  and 
capability.  Canada  will  continue  working  with  the 
Afghan  people  to  help  set  the  conditions  for  a 
successful  transition  to  greater  Afghan  leadership  on 
security.  We  strongly  support  the  Kabul  process  in 
charting 
towards  Afghanistan’s 
sustainable development, as well as the supporting role 
of  the  Joint  Coordination  and  Monitoring  Board.  We 
look  forward  to  working  with  the  Government  of 
Afghanistan  and  our  partners  in  the  international 
community  in  realizing  the  objectives  of  the  process 
and  delivering  concrete  results  for  the  people  of 
Afghanistan. 
Promoting and protecting human rights, including 

is  a  core  element  of  Canada’s 
women’s  rights, 
in  Afghanistan.  The  good  work  of 
engagement 
institutions  such  as  the  Afghan  Independent  Human 
remains  concerned  by 
to  make  progress 
the  way  forward 
Canada 
resolve 
10-62052 

3 
look 
results  by 
the 

A/65/PV.45 

Rights  Commission  is  an  important  expression  of 
Afghanistan’s  own  commitment  to  universal  human 
rights.  Canada  welcomes  the  Afghan  Government’s 
recent  decision  to  provide  the  Commission  with  core 
budget  support;  we  urge  it  do  so  in  a  manner  that 
preserves the independence of that body. 
(spoke in French) 

The  recent  parliamentary  elections  are  a  step  in 
the  country’s  ongoing  democratic  transition  as  the 
Government  of  Afghanistan  continues  to  strengthen 
governance  and  democratic  institutions.  We  note  with 
concern  the  allegations  of  electoral  irregularities  and 
fraud,  and  we 
to  Afghanistan’s  electoral 
institutions to address them in an open and transparent 
manner.  Canada  looks  forward  to  the  release  of  final, 
certified 
Independent  Electoral 
Commission  following  the  adjudication  of  complaints 
by  the  Electoral  Complaints  Commission.  In  the  long 
term,  the  institutional  and  professional  capacity  of 
electoral bodies must continue to develop, the public’s 
awareness  of  their  political  rights  must  increase,  and 
the  needs  of  key  civil  society  organizations  must 
continue  to  be  supported.  Those  form  the  foundations 
of  the  democratic  process  and  improved  elections  in 
the future. 

We  recognize  that  many  challenges  remain  in 
Afghanistan’s  development,  but  we  are  hopeful  about 
the progress made to date. Canada and the international 
community  remain  committed  to  helping  Afghans 
rebuild  Afghanistan 
that  enjoys 
prosperity, sound governance, peace and security. 
Mr.  Koterec  (Slovakia):  Slovakia  aligns  itself 

with  the  statement  delivered  by  the  representative  of 
Belgium  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union.  We  stand 
firmly  behind  the  Union’s  Common  Position  on  the 
situation in Afghanistan. 

the 
comprehensive  draft  resolution  presented  by  Germany 
(A/65/L.9).  The  number  of  sponsors  underlines  the 
scope  of  the  support  extended  to Afghanistan.  I  thank 
Germany for its fruitful efforts to facilitate a consensus 
within  the  international  community  on  the  renewed 
message  of  encouragement  that  covers  all  aspects  of 
the country’s achievements and needs, with a principal 
focus  on  transition.  On  this  occasion,  I  would  like  to 
point out some aspects of particular importance to my 
country. 
the  sponsors  of 
into  a  country 
is  one  of 
Slovakia 
ISAF 
forces 

Afghanistan, a country torn by war for 30 years, 
is  indisputably  a  priority  for  all  of  us.  Slovakia  is 
committed  to  assisting Afghanistan  and  contributes  to 
its  stability  and  security  within  the  International 
Security Assistance Force (ISAF) and through civilian 
development  activities.  Together  with  other  countries, 
Slovakia  will  remain  engaged  as  long  as  needed  and 
requested,  until  Afghanistan  is  able  on  its  own  to 
sustain  the  security  that  will  pave  the  way  for 
development. 

As  agreed  at  the  Kabul  Conference,  we  consider 
the phased transition of security responsibilities to the 
Afghan  leadership  to  be  our  primary  task.  This  past 
spring,  Slovakia  increased  its  troop  contribution  to 
ISAF  to  300,  and  we  are  now  preparing  another 
increase.  Yesterday,  3  November, 
the  Slovak 
Government  agreed  to  a  new  mandate  for  our  troops. 
Our  new  military  contribution  will  be  primarily 
focused on supporting the transition process, including 
the  training  and  stand-up  of  the  Afghan  National 
Security Forces. We will deploy an explosive ordnance 
disposal  team  for  the  purpose  of  protecting  the  civil 
population  and 
from  mines  and 
improvised  explosive  devices,  which  cause  huge 
human  casualties.  At 
time,  we  are 
withdrawing  our  national  caveats  for  most  of  our 
troops. 
Apart  from  our  military  engagement,  we  are 

expanding  all  components  of  our  comprehensive 
approach  to  Afghanistan.  It  is  among  three  priority 
programme  countries  of  Slovak  official  development 
assistance,  and  we  plan  to  review  by  the  end  of  2010 
how  our  assistance  can  be  better  distributed.  We  are 
currently  establishing  a  mechanism  allowing 
the 
deployment of civilian personnel in Afghanistan. 

I  wish  to  mention  a  number  of  projects  that  the 
Slovak  Government,  together  with  non-governmental 
organizations,  universities  and  the  private  sector,  has 
recently  completed  or  is  actively  working  on.  They 
include  reintegrating  displaced  persons  and  returnees 
in  Qarah  Bagh;  establishing  a  gastroenterological 
centre in Kabul; educating mothers on how to take care 
of  healthy  or  sick  children  through  publicly  available 
teaching  panels  and  building  capacities  at  Kabul 
Polytechnic University; supporting the socio-economic 
development of rural communities in Parwan province 
through  the  active  involvement  of  women;  expanding 
the  urgent-care  capacities  of  the  hospital  in  Lodin; 
building  a  cultural,  educational  and  social  centre  in 
the  same 
4 

10-62052 


Kunduz  province;  and  educating  inhabitants  of  rural 
communities on more effective ways of profiting from 
agriculture. 

We believe that, through targeted projects that are 
well coordinated and aligned with the priorities of the 
Afghan  Government, we can improve the daily life  of 
the  Afghan  people.  We  can  bring  hope  and  convey 
assurances that support is given not only at the highest 
but at all levels. We need the understanding and trust of 
the Afghans to fulfil our common goal of establishing a 
secure, stable and prosperous country. 

In  conclusion,  let  me  express  my  hope  that  the 
international  community,  united  behind  the  United 
Nations  Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan,  remains 
committed  to  assisting  the Afghan  Government  in  the 
quest  for  lasting  peace  and  security  and  to  achieving 
full  Afghan  ownership  of  the  reconstruction  and 
development of Afghanistan. 
Mr.  Wang  Min  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 

China associates itself with the statement made by the 
representative of Kazakhstan on behalf of the Shanghai 
Cooperation Organization and welcomes the Secretary-
General’s  report  on 
in  Afghanistan 
(A/65/552). 

In  recent  years,  thanks  to  the  leadership  of  the 
Afghan  Government,  the  help  of  the  international 
community  and  the  untiring  efforts  of  the  Afghans 
themselves,  reconstruction  in  the  country  has  made 
headway. 

The  success  of  the  International  Conference  on 
Afghanistan  in  Kabul  this  July  marked  an  important 
step 
the 
reconstruction  process  in  the  right  direction.  The 
smooth  and  successful  holding  of  the  parliamentary 
elections on 18 September was a major political event 
that  demonstrated  the  notable  progress  towards  the 
establishment  of  an  Afghanistan  run  by  the  Afghans 
themselves. 

At the same time, we should not lose sight of the 
fact  that  the  Afghan  reconstruction  process  is  still 
fraught  with  many  challenges 
the 
continued  efforts  of  the  Afghan  Government  and 
people  and  the  sustained  attention  and  support  of  the 
international community. 

Every step forward in Afghanistan is the result of 
the  serious  commitment  and  vigorous  support  of  the 
international community. We appreciate what has been 
the  Kabul  process  and  pointed 
that  call  for 
the  situation 
in 
A/65/PV.45
support 
Thirdly, 
the 
the  Government 
done by the United Nations in promoting Afghanistan’s 
reconstruction  and 
the  United  Nations 
coordinating  role.  I  should  like  to  highlight  the 
following five points in that regard. 
First,  in  order  to  achieve  peace,  stability  and 

development, 
and  people  of 
Afghanistan need to be in the driver’s seat with a view 
to  full  Afghan  ownership.  We  support  the  Afghan 
Government’s efforts in capacity-building, with a view 
to  exercising  its  full  and  effective  control  over  the 
entire territory. 

Secondly,  in  order  to  advance  the  Kabul  process 
and  further  progress,  balanced  efforts  should  be  made 
in  economic  development,  security,  stability,  national 
reconciliation,  good  governance,  the  rule  of  law  and 
the fight against narcotics. 

international  community  should 
continue  to  help  the  Government  of  Afghanistan  to 
enhance  its  capacity  to  ensure  national  security  and 
facilitate the building of its military and police forces. 
China is very concerned about the deterioration of the 
security  situation  and  increased  security  incidents  that 
have  resulted  in  a  significant  number  of  civilian 
casualties.  The  transfer  of  responsibility  for  security 
should  be  preceded  by  the  securing  of  the  country’s 
stability. 
Fourthly, on the basis of respect for Afghanistan’s 

independence,  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity,  the 
international 
its 
commitment  to  assisting  that  country  in  the  spirit  of 
consensus  reflected  in  the  communiqué  of  the  Kabul 
Conference. The international community should align 
its  assistance  with  the  Afghan  National  Development 
Strategy  and  the  priority  areas  identified  by  the 
Afghans. 
Fifthly,  the  narcotics  problem  is  a  malignant 

tumour  endangering 
security  and 
stability, and is spreading to Afghanistan’s neighbours. 
The 
should  pay  more 
attention  to  Afghanistan’s  fight  against  narcotics  and 
help  with  the  implementation  of  the  national  counter-
narcotics strategy. 

Afghanistan is a friendly neighbour of China. We 
respect  Afghanistan’s  independence,  sovereignty  and 
territorial integrity. We closely follow developments in 
the country and actively support, facilitate and engage 
in  its  reconstruction.  From  2002  to  2009,  China 
international  community 
the  country’s 
community 
should 
honour 
10-62052 

5 

an 
the  help  of 
A/65/PV.45 

provided  more  than  ¥900  million  in  grant  assistance, 
cancelled  $19.5  million  in  mature  debts,  and  was 
involved in seven construction projects. Since January 
this  year,  China  has  provided 
additional 
¥160 million  in  grant  assistance  in  such  fields  as 
infrastructure,  health  care,  sanitation  and  education. 
The  two  countries  exchanged  letters  of  zero-tariff 
treatment for certain Afghan exports to China, covering 
more than 4,000 items. In addition, China will continue 
to  step  up  the  training  of  Afghan  professionals, 
implement  more  projects,  and  provide  assistance  to 
those areas in the country which most urgently require 
it. 
We  believe  that,  with  the  efforts  by  the  Afghan 

Government  and  people  and 
the 
international community, Afghanistan will emerge from 
the  shadow  of  war  very  soon,  embark  on  the  path  to 
sustainable  development  and  contribute  to  regional 
peace and prosperity. 
Mr.  Šćepanović  (Montenegro):  Since  this  is  the 

first time my delegation is taking the floor, allow me to 
congratulate  Mr.  Deiss  on  his  assumption  of  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth 
session.  We  are  confident 
that,  under  his  able 
leadership,  this  session  will  come  to  a  successful 
conclusion  and  make  a  meaningful  contribution  to  the 
achievement of our common goals. 

Montenegro fully aligns itself with the statement 
made by the representative of Belgium on behalf of the 
European  Union.  In  addition,  allow  me  to  make  some 
additional points in my national capacity. 
Facing  up  to  the  modern  world  involves  many 

great  challenges,  and  even  small  countries 
like 
Montenegro  have  their  share  of  responsibility.  It 
remains  crucial,  particularly  with  respect 
the 
challenges  posed  by  the  situation  in  Afghanistan,  for 
the international community to stay actively engaged in 
the  recovery  phase  of  that  country,  as  it  will  have 
profound impact on its future. It is important to stress 
that we have so far been able to take this process in the 
right  direction,  but  at  the  same  time  we  have  to  be 
prepared for the long and hard road ahead. 
Montenegro  is  certainly  committed  to  seeking 

progress towards the achievement of the ultimate goal, 
shared 
international 
community,  of  establishing  a  stable  and  secure 
Afghanistan. In this context, allow me to highlight the 
ways  in  which  Montenegro  is  contributing  to  the 
by  Afghanistan 
and 
the 
to 
the 
the 
contribution 
in  Afghanistan, 
total  number  of 
the  excellent  cooperation  and  support 
overall  process  of  rebuilding  the  country  and  moving 
forward on the development of its democratic society. 

Soon after Montenegro regained its independence 
in  2006,  my  country  donated  light  weapons  and 
ammunition  to  Afghanistan.  In  addition,  since  March 
this year, a Montenegrin infantry and medical team has 
been  stationed  in  northern  Afghanistan,  within  a 
Hungarian contingent and under German command, as 
part  of  the  International  Security  Assistance  Force 
mission.  We  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
thank these two countries, as well as our other partners, 
for 
they 
continuously provide us. 
international  forces 

In 
engaged 
of 
Montenegro is symbolic. However, it constitutes 2 per 
cent  of  our  armed  forces,  which  themselves  are  going 
through  a  dynamic  process  of  reform.  Moreover, 
together  with  Croatia,  my  country  has  launched  an 
initiative  to  explore  the  possibility  of  training  a  joint 
team of instructors that would provide assistance to the 
Afghan  Security  Forces. This  initiative  is  open  for  all 
other Balkan countries to join. 

the  London 
Conference  in  January  and  the  Kabul  Conference  in 
July,  thus  showing  its  dedication  to  participating 
actively  in  seeking  a  sustainable  solution  for  the 
successful  conclusion  of  the  transition  process.  We 
believe  that  reconciliation  and  the  strengthening  of 
trust  among  different  ethnic  and  political  structures  in 
Afghanistan are of crucial importance to the credibility 
of this process. It is also of utmost importance that all 
countries,  big  and  small,  be  willing  and  ready  to  join 
these  efforts  and  provide  assistance  within 
their 
capacities,  so 
the  ongoing  process  can  be 
successfully and fully achieved. 

in 
Afghanistan  (A/65/L.9)  is  yet  another  step  aimed  at 
sending  a  clear  signal  of  support  to  the  efforts  of  the 
international community to assist the Afghan people in 
defence of their country and in building a better, more 
prosperous and safer Afghanistan based  on the rule of 
law. In co-sponsoring the draft resolution, Montenegro 
joined  a  large  cross-regional  group  of  countries  and 
once again showed its full support and commitment to 
the Afghan people and the situation in Afghanistan. In 
that light, we expect to see the draft resolution adopted 
by consensus as a sign of the unity and solidarity of the 
Montenegro  also 
resolution  on 
The  draft 
situation 
took  part 
in 
that 
the 
6 

10-62052 
Turkey 
commends 
Mr.  Apakan
the  Government 
the  Government  of  Afghanistan,  with 


United Nations and the whole international community 
with Afghanistan. 

(Turkey):  Let  me  begin  by 
expressing  our  appreciation  for  and  satisfaction  with 
the  draft  resolution  before  us  (A/65/L.9).  We  would 
like to thank the Permanent Mission of Germany for its 
efforts  as  facilitator  to  find  common  ground  and  to 
reach a consensus. We are pleased to be co-sponsoring 
the  draft  resolution,  which  is  a  balanced  document 
reflecting achievements so far, as well as the remaining 
challenges in Afghanistan. 

The  situation  in  Afghanistan  continues  to  be 
serious. Constant, intensive and coordinated efforts are 
required  to  maintain  the  initiative. We  are  glad  to  see 
that 
the 
assistance  of  the  international  community,  has  been 
doing just that. 

of 
Afghanistan  for  holding  the  second  parliamentary 
elections  since  2001  on  18  September,  as  planned,  in 
spite  of  the  difficult  security  conditions,  and  the 
Afghan people for their interest and participation in the 
elections.  We  condemn  all  attacks  and  attempts  to 
undermine the election process with violence and offer 
our condolences for those who lost their lives. 
We  are  very  appreciative  of  the  efforts  of  the 

the 
United  Nations 
assistance  provided  during  the  elections,  and  are 
heartened  that  the  United  Nations  is  determined  to  do 
its  utmost,  even  in  the  face  of  attacks.  Turkey 
condemns  the  terrorist  attack  on  the  United  Nations 
compound  in  Herat  on  23  October  in  the  strongest 
terms. Such deliberate terrorist attacks should not deter 
us;  they  should  only  strengthen  our  determination  to 
assist  the Afghan  people  in  establishing  lasting  peace 
and  stability.  We  salute  the  courage  of  the  United 
Nations  and  Afghan  staff  and  assure  them  of  our 
continued support and solidarity. 
The  elections  were  another  step  forward  in  the 

consolidation  of  Afghanistan’s  democratic  institutions 
and  national  unity.  The  holding  of  the  elections  was 
made possible by the determined efforts of the Afghan 
authorities  and 
international 
community  to  that  Afghan-owned  and  Afghan-led 
process. After the election process has been completed 
in  full,  the  Afghan  Government  and  the  international 
community  will  be  able  to  focus  in  greater  depth  on 
Afghanization. 
the  support  of 
in  Afghanistan, 
in  particular 
A/65/PV.45
Lasting  peace  and  stability 

Ensuring the durability of the achievements made 
so  far  in  Afghanistan  is  directly  linked  to  cementing 
Afghan  ownership,  as  well  as  empowering  Afghans. 
The  Kabul  Conference  was  a  turning  point  in  that 
regard.  The Afghan  Government  and  the  international 
community should now focus on the implementation of 
the  Kabul  process,  the  most  important  message  of 
which is Afghan ownership. In that regard, we are glad 
to  see  that  the Afghan  Government  is  showing  strong 
political will to take that process forward. On the other 
hand,  the  international  community  should  be  steadfast 
in its commitments and assist the Afghan Government 
in a manner that conforms to the conditions, priorities 
and requirements on the ground. 

in  Afghanistan 
ultimately require political reconciliation. That process 
should  seek  to  embrace  all  segments  of  society,  give 
them  fair  opportunities  to  serve  the Afghan  cause  and 
enable  their  representation. Afghanistan  can  overcome 
the hurdles it has encountered for so long only through 
enhanced unity and solidarity at the national level. 

Turkey  has  maintained  the  most  comprehensive 
assistance  programme  in  its  history  with  various 
civilian  and  military  capabilities 
in  support  of 
Afghanistan’s historic process of transformation. What 
is  vital  in  Afghanistan  is  to  win  over  the  hearts  and 
minds  of  the  Afghan  people.  Comprehensive  civilian 
efforts  are  essential  in  that  regard.  Accordingly,  our 
efforts are directed primarily at helping to improve the 
quality  of  life  of  the  Afghans.  In  that  regard,  we  put 
particular 
and 
agricultural development, as well as capacity-building. 

Turkey  is  also  particularly  active  in  support  of 
regional  cooperation.  To  that  effect,  we  strive  to 
reinvigorate  the  cooperation  between Afghanistan  and 
its neighbours, as well as across the region, with a view 
to encouraging the countries involved to jointly address 
the  challenges  that  affect  them  as  a  whole. We  firmly 
believe 
the 
irreversibility of the process under way in Afghanistan 
is  directly  linked  to  ensuring  better,  result-oriented 
cooperation at the regional level. 

In  that  vein,  before  the  year  ends  we  will  have 
hosted no less than 20 major international meetings in 
support of regional and international cooperation, with 
a particular focus on Afghanistan. Those include three 
summit-level and several ministerial meetings. We very 
recently  hosted 
fourth  Regional  Economic 
that  an  essential  pillar  of  ensuring 
education,  health 
emphasis  on 
the 
the 
10-62052 

7 

A/65/PV.45 

Cooperation  Conference  on  Afghanistan  in  Istanbul, 
and  held  the  Academic  Platform  for  Afghanistan 
meeting  with  the  participation  of  academics  from 
countries represented at the Conference. 

Turkey  is  confident  that  Afghanistan’s  stability 
and social and political harmony will grow stronger in 
the  future.  The  Kabul  Conference  was  an  important 
milestone  towards  the  attainment  of  those  goals.  The 
implementation  of  the  process  requires  determined 
leadership on the part of the Afghan authorities and the 
close  coordination  of  Afghanistan’s  partners.  For  its 
part, Turkey is ready to do its utmost. 
Mr. Čekuolis  (Lithuania):  Lithuania  aligns  itself 

with  the  statement  made  by  the  representative  of 
Belgium  on  behalf  of  the  European  Union. We  would 
also like to express our appreciation for the successful 
facilitation  efforts  of  Germany  and  are  proud  to  join 
the  impressive  list  of  sponsors.  I  would  like  to  thank 
the  President  for  convening  this  meeting  because  this 
debate  gives  us  a  good  opportunity  to  renew  the 
international  community’s  message  of  solidarity  and 
support  for  the  Afghan  people  on  their  path  towards 
peace, security and democracy. 

Lithuania  welcomed  the  decision  of  the  Security 
Council  in  October  to  extend  the  authorization  of  the 
International  Security  Assistance  Force  (ISAF)  in 
Afghanistan for one year (see S/PV.6395). In our view, 
the  presence  of 
in 
Afghanistan,  and  of  ISAF  in  particular,  is  essential  to 
supporting the efforts of the Afghan people in building 
a stable and secure Afghanistan. The implementation of 
development  projects  and  administrative  capacity-
building are impossible without the stabilization of the 
security situation in that country. 
Lithuania  welcomes  the  decisions  of  the  London 

and  Kabul  Conferences,  which  set  a  clear  agenda  and 
agreed criteria for the transition to full responsibility of 
the  Afghan  people.  The  political  will  of  the  Afghan 
President  and  Government  to  meet  the  commitments 
undertaken  on 
is  highly 
important. 

The  recent  parliamentary  elections  showed  the 
potential  of  the  Government  to  take  responsibility  for 
the administration of the country. In the context of that 
transition,  the  United  Nations  and  its  agencies  must 
continue  to  offer  all  necessary  support  and  assistance, 
which  will  be  even  more  important  as  the  process  of 
transition to Afghan-led security will start next year. 
international  community 
the  country 
reforming 
the 
leading 
a 
building 
local 
capabilities, 
have 
been 
like 
to  see 
An  assessment  of 
the  situation  shows 
local  government  and 

the 
enormous  scope  of  the  tasks  ahead.  However,  dealing 
adequately with the tasks of improving overall security, 
implementing  development  projects  tailored  to  local 
needs, 
improving 
governance and administration, and fighting corruption 
demand  that  continuous  and  balanced  attention  be 
given  to  all  provinces;  if  it  is  not,  our  gains  in  some 
areas risk being undercut by a lack of progress, or even 
regression, in others. 

We  have  seen  this  ourselves  in  Ghor  province, 
where  we 
provincial 
reconstruction  team  since  2005.  The  lack  of  attention 
to  the  province’s  real  needs  on  the  part  of  the  central 
Government  creates  tensions  within  local  society  and 
between 
local  people.  We 
therefore  would 
the  United  Nations 
Assistance  Mission  in  Afghanistan  (UNAMA)  more 
vigorously encourage the Afghan Government not only 
to concentrate on national programmes but to be more 
active  in  the  regions,  leaving  no  forgotten  pockets  on 
the map of that large country. 

Through its 23 field offices, UNAMA has proven 
to be an invaluable support to the Afghan Government 
in  its  efforts  to  improve  security,  governance  and 
economic  development  across  the  country. We  believe 
that manning the field offices with additional numbers 
of  dedicated  expert  advisers  would  be  strongly 
welcomed  by  local  authorities  and  representatives  of 
the 
the  ground.  An 
enhanced  UNAMA  presence  in  the  provinces  would 
undoubtedly  benefit  the  Afghan  people  and  help  the 
authorities  to  better  prepare  for  taking  over  full 
responsibility for the country. 

Let  me  also  stress  the  need  to  combine  and 
coordinate  the  work  undertaken  by  various  countries 
and  international  organizations  in Afghanistan.  Closer 
cooperation 
the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
(OSCE)  and  other  international  organizations,  as  well 
as 
including  Afghanistan’s 
neighbours,  would  benefit  the  people  of  Afghanistan. 
Building 
the 
transformation  of  Afghanistan  should  be  a  key 
guideline for further United Nations action. 

For  Lithuania,  which  will  assume  OSCE 
chairmanship in 2011, the regional dimension is highly 
pertinent.  We  are  currently  considering  how  we  can 
regional  and  global  consensus  on 
international  community  on 
the  United  Nations, 
among 
regional 
players, 
8 

10-62052 
a 
is 
transition 
cooperation 
Development 


enhance the OCSE role in Central Asia, including joint 
OSCE  projects  and  initiatives  on  border  management 
and  travel  document  security  in  the  region  bordering 
Afghanistan. 

powerful 
instrument in helping to build administrative capacities 
and  in  developing  local  economies  and  civil  society. 
We  believe  that  there  is  room  to  further  improve 
coordination  and  cooperation  among  donor  countries. 
For  our  part,  we  are  happy  to  be  jointly  working  on 
development  cooperation  projects  in  Ghor  province 
with our partners from Japan, the United States, Greece 
and other countries. 

In  this  context,  let  me  remind  the Assembly  that 
Lithuania  will  hold  a  development  cooperation 
ministerial  conference  on  the  theme  “The  road  to 
successful 
in  Afghanistan,  province  by 
province”,  which  will  take  place  on  12  November  in 
Vilnius,  the  capital  of  Lithuania.  The  conference  will 
focus  on  development  cooperation  potential  as  an 
instrument  for  the  implementation  of  the  transition 
process.  We  hope  that  the  conference  will  help  to 
contribute to the success of implementing the goals and 
objectives  of  Afghanistan’s  transition  to  peaceful, 
secure and democratic development. 
Mr. Ashour  (Libyan Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke  in 

Arabic):  We  are  gathered  here  once  again  to  consider 
the  situation  in  Afghanistan  against  the  backdrop  of 
ongoing  suffering  and  insecurity  in  that  country  and 
continued  unjustified  murders  of  civilians  by  the 
Taliban and the international forces. Innocent civilians, 
unfortunately,  are  still,  as  always,  the  victims.  We 
condemn  the  tragic  and  repeated  incidents  that  have 
targeted civilians in Afghanistan, including women and 
children.  Despite  successive  calls  for  the  necessary 
measures to be taken to end them, these very troubling 
incidents persist. We therefore call on the international 
forces  to  act  swiftly  to  prevent  these  tragic  incidents 
and  their  consequences  from  recurring.  Independent, 
fair and impartial inquiries must be carried out in order 
to charge those responsible and deny them impunity. 

We  are  deeply  concerned  by  the  failure  of  the 
international  forces  to  achieve  peace  in  Afghanistan, 
given  that  the  strategies  are  focused  on  and  aimed  at 
achieving  a  military  victory 
there,  regardless  of 
civilian losses. Many Afghans are driven into the ranks 
of the rebels in reaction to the murder of civilians and 
10-62052 

9 
for 
A/65/PV.45
aimed 
at 
achieving 
The 
international  community 
their  feelings  of  social  and  political 
because  of 
marginalization. 

My delegation reiterates its belief that a solution 
to the situation lies not in enhancing military strength, 
but  in  a  comprehensive  solution  to  the  situation  in 
Afghanistan  on  the  basis  of  comprehensive  national 
reconciliation 
the  overall 
development of the country. In this respect, we support 
calls  by  some  political  leaders  in Afghanistan  for  the 
conclusion  of  a  ceasefire  with  the  Taliban  as  a  step 
towards  achieving  stability  in  the  country.  It  goes 
without  saying  that  if  the  money  that  has  been  and  is 
still  being  spent  on  the  war  in  Afghanistan  had  been 
spent  on  development  projects,  peace  and  prosperity 
would  already  have  been  achieved  and  Afghanistan 
would not be what it is today. 

is  focused  on 
helping the Afghan people to build a democratic, stable 
and  prosperous  State.  The  war  is  not  being  waged 
against  the  Taliban  or  other  parties,  particularly  since 
an  approach  based  on  the  use  of  force  cannot,  by  its 
very  nature,  ensure  security  and  stability  if  it  is  not 
matched  by  efforts  to  establish  a  dialogue  aimed  at 
achieving  national  reconciliation  among  all  sectors  of 
the  Afghan  population,  repudiating  violence,  fighting 
corruption and combating drug trafficking. 

That  is  why  the  international  community  must 
support  programmes 
allow 
Afghanistan  to  fulfil  all  its  responsibilities  as  a 
sovereign  country  capable  of  providing  security  and 
offering  a  life  of  dignity  to  all  its  citizens,  as  well  as 
creating the conditions necessary for the withdrawal of 
foreign forces. That last condition is a sine qua non for 
the achievement of national reconciliation. 
the 

International  Security  Assistance  Force  must  be 
urgently strengthened and provided with the necessary 
resources.  Support  for  a  larger  presence  of  and  more 
efficient contribution by United Nations agencies must 
be provided, in particular in terms of development and 
reconstruction  programmes  in  Afghanistan,  not  to 
mention State-building. We hope that the international 
community  will  continue 
to  support  and  assist 
Afghanistan  more  effectively  with  a  view  to  ensuring 
full stability and sustainable development. 

the 
withdrawal of international forces from Afghanistan is 
national 
a 
the  role  and  mandate  of 
Creating  an  environment 
In  addition, 
precondition 
favourable 
to 
achieving 
and 
activities 
that 
basic 

A/65/PV.45 

reconciliation,  which  cannot  be  achieved  while  the 
foreign  occupation  continues.  We  are 
therefore 
reassured  by  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
(A/65/552),  which  takes  note  of  the  political  progress 
represented  by  the  recent  convening  of  the  Kabul 
Conference,  which  sought  primarily  to  promote  the 
capacity  of  Afghans  to  take  a  leading  role  in  and 
responsibility for their own future as soon as possible. 

In  conclusion,  we  hope  that  due  regard  will  be 
given to the Secretary-General’s evaluation of progress 
made  in  the  implementation  of  the  mandate  of  the 
United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan, and 
of the Mission’s own priorities, which it submitted in a 
report  to  be  issued  by  the  Secretary-General  to  the 
Security Council in December. We hope that that report 
will take account of progress made in all areas with a 
view to helping Afghanistan finally escape the vicious 
cycle  of  violence  that  has  persisted  for  more  than  30 
years. 

have heard the last speaker in the debate on this item. 

resolution A/65/L.9. 

Secretariat to announce additional sponsors. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 
The Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Mr.  Zhang  Saijin  (Department  for  General 

Assembly  and  Conference  Management):  I  would  like 
to inform the Assembly that, since the issuance of draft 
resolution  A/65/L.9,  the  following  countries  have 
become 
sponsors:  Albania,  Argentina,  Belarus, 
Cambodia, China, Croatia, Cyprus, Egypt, El Salvador, 
Eritrea,  Fiji,  France,  Georgia,  Guatemala,  Haiti, 
Hungary,  Indonesia,  Iraq,  Israel,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan, 
Kuwait,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Malaysia,  Mali, 
Mauritius, the Federated States of Micronesia, Monaco, 
Morocco,  Oman,  Palau,  the  Philippines,  Qatar,  the 
Republic  of  Korea,  the  Russian  Federation,  Saint 
Lucia,  San  Marino,  Saudi  Arabia,  Serbia,  Sweden, 
Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, 
Togo,  Ukraine,  the  United  Arab  Emirates,  Viet  Nam 
and Yemen. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  A 

similar  resolution  on  this  item  was  adopted  without  a 
vote  at  the  previous  session  (resolution  64/11).  May  I 
take  it  that  the  Assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft 
resolution A/65/L.9? 

Draft resolution A/65/L.9 was adopted (resolution 
65/8). 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

General Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration of agenda item 38. 



  The meeting rose at 4.10 p.m. 
10 

10-62052 
