
A/65/PV.9
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

9th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 22 September 2010, 3 p.m. 
New York 





Co-Chair: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki . . . . . . .
Co-Chair: Mr. Joseph Deiss . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(President of the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session)
(President of the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session) 










  The meeting was called to order at 3.25 p.m. 
High-level Plenary Meeting on the Millennium 
Development Goals 
Agenda items 13 and 115 (continued)
Integrated and coordinated implementation of and 
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United 
Nations conferences and summits in the economic, 
social and related fields 
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit 
  Draft resolution (A/65/L.1) 

The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The General Assembly will now hear an address by His 
Excellency  Mr.  Alan  García  Pérez,  President  of  the 
Republic of Peru. 
President García Pérez (spoke in Spanish): Our 

country, Peru, is proud to appear before this Assembly 
to  share  the  important  advances  and  achievements  we 
have made towards the Goals established 10 years ago 
in  the  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2). They 
have  been  sustainable  advances,  attained  within  a 
democratic 
strengthens 
institutions in the face of political self-interest and that 
recognizes the strength of the global economy, seizing 
its  opportunities  instead  of  opposing  it,  and  engaging 
with 
insular 
development supported by unsustainable subsidies. 
the  world 
trusting 
system, 
system 
rather 
than 
that 
in 
a 

The  United  Nations  has  thus  performed  the  role 
of planner and organizer of goals, bringing order to the 
social work done by our Governments. That is why we 
must  congratulate  it  and  encourage  it  to  continue  in 
that  work  and  in  publicly  monitoring  its  performance 
before our public opinion and before our peoples. 

In  Peru,  the  noble  Goals  set  forth  by  the  United 
Nations  have  been  incorporated  as  priorities  into  the 
national  agenda.  They  have  guided  various  specific 
public policies and focused social programmes — such 
as “Together”, our direct monetary support programme 
for  the  poorest;  “Building  Peru”,  our  programme  to 
provide jobs through social works; our “Water for All” 
and  rural  electrification  programmes;  and  our  “Own 
Roof”  programme  —  in  which  representatives  of  the 
State  and  society  as  a  whole  have  participated.  Those 
were  programmes  established  in  order  to  ensure  that 
the benefits of economic growth are distributed among 
all Peruvians. 

But  the  best  anti-poverty  programme  has  been 
our  creation  of  2.1  million  jobs  in  four  years  and  the 
investment of the largest part of the State’s income in 
infrastructure  work.  We  have  undertaken  130,000 
infrastructure  projects  so  far,  all  to  benefit  the  poor. 
These  include  road,  electric  light  and  potable  water 
projects, all productive works, as opposed to opting for 
the  easy  but  unsustainable  approach  of  current 
expenditures, public salaries and subsidies. 

It is, of course, also our responsibility to speak of 
pending  challenges  and  to  reaffirm  our  commitment 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-54527 (E) 
*1054527* 

A/65/PV.9 

and  desire  to  continue  to  make  progress  in  achieving 
goals  that  can  overcome  social  gaps.  We  must  also 
promote  new  and  more  ambitious  targets  that  we  can 
also achieve by 2015.  

In recent years, we have proven that our societies 
and  Governments  can  organize  themselves  around 
those  social  goals.  We  can  make  use  of  the  years 
remaining  until  2015  to  incorporate  new  and  more 
ambitious goals, such as early detection of cancer, the 
reduction  of  transportation  accidents  that  result  in 
millions  of  victims  every  year  around  the  world,  and 
the reduction of per capita expenditure on weapons and 
the military. 

Few  countries  can  boast  of  having  grown,  on 
average, 6.5 per cent in the last five years, even in an 
era of crisis, let alone that that growth has taken place 
in  the  social  sphere,  in  keeping  with  our  country’s 
national  interest  in  focusing  on  promoting  more  jobs 
and  reducing  poverty.  In  2009,  the  worst  year  of  the 
crisis, Peru’s economic activity grew by 1 per cent and 
employment  by  2  per  cent,  and  poverty  was  also 
reduced by 2 per cent. For this year, we hope for 8 per 
cent  growth  in  the  economy  and  infrastructure,  which 
will contribute to reducing poverty and destitution.  

Peru has made, and continues to make, progress, 
despite contractions due to difficulties in the developed 
economies 
international 
development assistance. We continue to make progress 
because  of  our  investments  in  infrastructure  and  our 
public  anti-poverty  policies,  organized  around  the 
Millennium Goals. 

In  terms  of  the  Goal  of  eradicating  extreme 
poverty  and  hunger,  Peru  has  achieved  a  rate  of 
compliance of 99 per cent, as recognized in the United 
Nations  report  on  compliance  with  the  Goals.  It  has 
achieved the Target of reducing by half the percentage 
of individuals living under the extreme poverty line. In 
2003, 24 per cent of the population was in that group. 
By  2008,  that  figure  had  gone  down  to  12.6  per  cent, 
and by 2009 to 11.5 per cent. In 2001, our country had 
an overall poverty rate of 54.4 per cent; in 2004, it was 
still at 48 per cent.  
Today,  thanks  to  the  strength  of  the  national 

economy,  that  figure  has  fallen  to  34  per  cent,  which 
means  that  there  has  been  a  14  per  cent  reduction  in 
five  years.  It  also  means  that  more  than  3.5  million 
Peruvians  have  emerged  from  poverty.  The  United 
Nations  report  certifies  that  Peru  has  achieved  78  per 
cutbacks 
and 
the 
in 

cent  of  its  objectives.  We  trust  that  by  2011  we  will 
achieve  our  goal  of  30  per  cent,  and  our  efforts  will 
continue.  When  we  celebrate  the  bicentenary  of  our 
independence  in  2021,  we  hope  to  have  achieved  the 
goal  of  lowering  the  poverty  rate  to  less  than  10  per 
cent of our country’s population. 

In  the  past  four  years,  the  public  sector  has 
invested  $24  billion  in  more  than  130,000  projects, 
tripling  public  investment  in  infrastructure,  schools, 
health  centres,  roads  linking  remote  towns  and  the 
basic  services  of  potable  water  and  electricity  for  the 
poorest. But that public investment has been supported 
and  augmented  through  private  investment  of  more 
than  $74  billion.  More  than  2  million  jobs  have  been 
created, largely in the formal economy.   

In  terms  of  access  to  water  and  sanitation 
services, I can say that in the last five years the public 
sector  in  Peru  has  benefited  4  million  Peruvians  who 
previously  had  little  or  no  potable  water.  It  has  also 
built  sewers  for  3  million.  If  we  continue  at  the  same 
pace, in the next 10 years we will be able to close the 
gap  between  those  who  have  potable  water  and  those 
who do not. 

for  All” 
programme,  we  have  benefited  3  million  Peruvians  in 
more  than  7,000  towns  that  did  not  have  electricity 
before,  and  we  are  continuing  to  work  on  adding 
another  5,000  towns.  Next  year,  12,000  towns  will  be 
connected to electrical power and 80 per cent of homes 
in Peru will have electricity.  
Thus  with  water  and  light,  more  schools  and 

more electrical and highway infrastructure projects, we 
will have built a more equitable country and will have 
ensured more rights for all. Only in this way will more 
Peruvians become part of the democratic life of Peru. 

With regard to universal primary education, I can 
say that in Peru that Goal has largely been achieved. In 
the  last  10  years,  enrolment  in  primary  schools  grew 
from 90 to 97.6 per cent, and the net rate of attendance 
went  from  90  to  94  per  cent. We  are  now  thinking  of 
establishing 
secondary 
education, with direct support for the poorest families.  

We  have  also  reduced  illiteracy  to  5  per  cent  of 
the population. We began with 14 per cent of Peruvians 
being illiterate. After adding 1.4 million citizens to the 
ranks  of  the  literate,  we  believe  that  by  next  year  the 
illiteracy  rate  will  have  dropped  to  below  4  per  cent, 
through  our  “Light 
Furthermore, 
compulsory 
universal 
2 

10-54527 


and  Peru  will  thus  be  a  country  free  of  illiteracy  by 
2011. 

With regard to promoting gender equality and the 
empowerment  of  women,  it  is  worth  highlighting  the 
greater  participation  of  women  in  education.  I  am 
proud to say that women’s participation is now 10 per 
cent  greater  than  that  of  men  in  secondary  and  higher 
education. Women’s participation in the labour market 
and  in  the  political  life  of  the  country  has  also 
increased,  especially  in  the  legislative  branch,  where 
the proportion of seats occupied by women in Congress 
went from 14 per cent to 29 per cent today.  

Concerning  Goals  4,  5  and  6  —  to  reduce 
mortality  for  children under five, to improve maternal 
health,  and 
fight  AIDS,  malaria  and  other 
diseases —  what  we  have  achieved  so  far  is  positive, 
although not sufficient.  

Chronic  infant  malnutrition  was  reduced  from 
25.4 per cent to 18.3 per cent in the last five years, and 
the  proportion  of  children  with  weight  deficiencies  or 
general  malnutrition  dropped  from  7.1  per  cent  to 
4.2 per  cent  in  2009.  Infant  mortality  —  those  under 
one year of age — was reduced from 33 per thousand 
in  2003 
in  2008.  Orderly 
programmes have been instituted to eliminate parasites, 
replace  wood-burning  kitchens  with  modern  kitchens 
and  replace  latrines  in  order  to  reduce  gastrointestinal 
infections  and  bronchopulmonary  illnesses,  which  are 
behind  malnutrition  in  children.  Mortality  among 
children under five years of age has also been reduced, 
from  92  cases  per  every  thousand  born  in  1990  to 
31 per  thousand  in  2008.  That  means  that  we  have 
achieved the Goal set for 2015.  

Maternal  mortality  dropped  from  265  cases  per 
100,000  births  in  the  base  year  1990  to  103  cases 
today,  which  means  that  the  Goal  set  has  been 
achieved.  The  percentage  of  births  assisted  by 
specialized health personnel has increased from 59 per 
cent in 2000 to 82 per cent in 2009.  

for 
the  vaccination 
children  and  adults  has  enabled  us,  according  to  the 
World  Health  Organization,  to  eradicate  measles  and 
rubella  and  reduce  yellow  fever  and  hepatitis  B,  thus 
improving the life expectancy of the population.  

The  morbidity  rates  for  malaria  and  tuberculosis 
have  also  been  reduced,  but  not  sufficiently.  We  now 
have cases that are resistant to an array of drugs, so the 
to  18  per 
thousand 
to 
Expanding 
campaigns 
A/65/PV.9
international  cooperation  of 
Government will have to expend greater efforts in that 
area. 

We  have  started  a  new  system  of  compulsory 
universal  health  insurance,  which  includes  all  service 
providers  in  order  to  provide  insurance  coverage  for 
90 per  cent  of 
illnesses,  medicine  and  surgery. 
Coverage  includes  various  types  of  cancers  and  other 
diseases that were previously not covered. In these five 
years,  we  have  been  able  to  provide  cataract  surgery 
free  of  cost  for  120,000  cases,  and  early  detection  of 
the more frequent cancers has been doubled.  

Those achievements have been made possible by 
the  investments  of  the  State  and  the  public  sector. 
However, we must recognize the important role played 
by 
institutions  and 
countries,  which  has  been  essential.  It  has  allowed  us 
to  reach  the  most  remote  areas  with  social  projects  in 
order achieve the Millennium Goals.  
Today, we propose that the Assembly make use of 

the  lessons  learned  and  of  what  has  already  been 
achieved 
to  set  for  ourselves  bigger  and  more 
ambitious  objectives  for  2015:  the  early  detection  of 
and  cure  for  intrauterine,  prostate  and  gastrointestinal 
cancer,  which  would  allow  us  to  save  three  million 
lives in the next four years; the eradication of cataracts 
through surgery at a very low cost, which would allow 
the elderly to get their sight back in the next four years; 
and  the  reduction  of  transit  accidents  in  urban  areas, 
which  is  the  easiest  goal  because  it  is  a  matter  of 
regulations,  which  would  allow  us  to  save  from  death 
and  disability  two  of  every  6,000  people  in  the  next 
four years.  

We  know  that  there  are  still  many  concerns  and 
challenges that demand greater social investment, with 
more social programmes involving monetary transfers. 
We  can  succeed  in  that,  fulfilling  the  Millennium 
Goals,  but  above  all  fulfilling  the  great  goals  of  the 
General Assembly and of the United Nations: to live in 
peace  and  defeat  the  build-up  of  arms  —  the  worst 
enemy of the Millennium Goals and the worst scourge 
of  the  poor  —  ensuring  that  our  countries  free 
themselves  from 
to  buy 
weapons  and  from  the  tragedy  of  enormous  military 
expenditures,  which  prevent  the  development  of  our 
countries. 

Living  in  peace,  reducing  the  arms  build-up  and 
ensuring  that  people  who  produce  the  weapons  stop 
producing  them  —  the  time  has  come  to  make  these 
the  ominous  obligation 
10-54527 

3 

on 
A/65/PV.9 

considerations  a  supreme  goal  of  our  peoples  in  this 
Millennium.  Weapons  only  bring  confrontation, 
scourges and misery to our peoples.  

We  come  before  the  world  to  say  that  we  have 
made a great deal of progress, but much remains to be 
done.  We  will  continue  to  do  this  work  within 
democracy, realism and freedom. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The General Assembly will now hear an address by the 
Chair  of  the  Presidency  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina, 
His Excellency Mr. Haris Silajdžić. 
Mr.  Silajdžić:  It  is  an  honour  to  participate  in 

this  High-level  Meeting 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). Allow me to express my 
gratitude to Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki for having ably 
presided  over  the  General  Assembly  during  the  past 
year  and  to  congratulate  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss  on  being 
elected  President  of  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth 
session. 

Ten  years  ago,  the  Governments  of  the  world 
agreed  to  ensure  a  new  vision  in  order  to  change 
reality,  creating  a  crucial  platform 
for  global 
cooperation in the twenty-first century. At that historic 
moment,  by 
the  Millennium 
Declaration  (resolution  55/2),  the  key  challenges  that 
humanity  faced  were  set  out  and  concrete  measures 
were  defined  for  assessing  progress  in  attaining  the 
interrelated 
associated  with 
development,  governance,  peace,  security  and  human 
rights. 

Our gathering here today presents an opportunity 
to answer two important questions. The first is: “What 
is the status of the progress made toward fulfilling the 
commitments we assumed at the Millennium Summit?” 
And the second is: “Can we be satisfied with what we 
have achieved?” 
To be sure, the results achieved so far are not to 

be  underestimated,  but 
from 
satisfactory.  Moreover,  the  results  achieved  are  being 
compromised  by  the  new  challenges  and  problems  we 
are  facing:  economic  crises,  conflicts,  the  effects  of 
climate change and other global issues. 

Bosnia and Herzegovina is fully committed to the 
attainment of the Millennium Development Goals. As a 
country  that  recently  suffered  major  devastation  from 
war  and  thereafter  received  significant  international 
support  for  reconstruction,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina 
the  adoption  of 
they  are  still 
goals 
tasks 
and 
far 
poverty 
indicators 
into 
its 
especially 
framework 
importance 
for  defining 
the  development  strategy  and 
now  invests  in  efforts  to  achieve  sustainability  and  to 
fully assume its own responsibilities. 

In order to overcome current problems and create 
conditions for improving social circumstances, various 
activities are being implemented and planned in Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina.  The  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina 
National  Human  Development  Report  on 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  included  quantitative 
estimates  on  MDG  achievement  by  2015.  We  also 
established  a 
long-term 
strategic  priorities,  as  well  as  a  framework  for 
harmonizing  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  with 
the  social  programmes  of  the  European  Union.  Our 
National Human Development Report focuses on MDG 
for  Bosnia  and 
priorities  of  high 
Herzegovina, 
reduction, 
development  humanization  and  development  support 
enhancement. 

In  2003,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  incorporated 
MDG 
first  Medium-Term 
Development Strategy 2004-2007. The achievement of 
the  MDGs  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  thus  became  a 
vital  part  of 
its 
implementation. The final report on the implementation 
of  the  measures  planned  in  the  action  plans  indicates 
that  the  progress  in  the  achievement  of  MDGs  was 
made in that medium-term period. 

In  this  regard,  we  have  developed  two  strategic 
documents:  the  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  2010-2013 
Development Strategy and the Bosnia and Herzegovina 
Social  Inclusion  Strategy.  These  documents  have  now 
been  finalized  and  are  to  be  adopted.  The  purpose  of 
the  two  strategies  is  to  provide  for  a  more  stable, 
efficient  and  competitive economy; to reduce poverty; 
and 
in  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  as  well  as  integration  into  the  European 
Union. 

Both  strategies  have  been  drafted  with  the  full 
participation  of  all  levels  of  Government  and  of  the 
civil  society  sector.  The  goals  and  priorities  of  the 
strategies  are 
the  MDGs.  The 
implementation  of  these  strategies  will  be  of  great 
importance  for  our  future  progress  towards  achieving 
the MDGs. 

2010-2014 
Employment  Strategy  is  currently  in  the  consideration 
of  public  comments  phase.  We  have  also  adopted  the 
2008-2010 
Decent  Work  Country  Programme 
to  achieve  social 
and  Herzegovina 
The  Bosnia 
line  with 
inclusion 
in 
4 

10-54527 
the  decision  on 
the  ratification  of 


document,  which  defines  a  set  of  policies  targeted  at 
mitigating problems in the field of employment. 

With  regard  to  solving  social  issues  related  to 
possible  consequences  of  the  energy  sector  reforms, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  adopted  the  Social  Action 
Plan  on  the  Memorandum  of  Understanding  on  Social 
Issues  in  the  Context  of  the  Energy  Community.  The 
goal of this Plan is to ensure the protection of our most 
vulnerable citizens in the event of increases in the price 
of electric power and to provide adequate measures for 
the  protection  and  care  of  a  possible  surplus  of 
employees in this sector. 

In  addition  to  these  measures,  the  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  disability  policy  created  basic  conditions 
for creating solutions aimed at ensuring a higher level 
of social inclusion for this especially vulnerable group 
and  enabling  it  to  gain  access,  among  other  things,  to 
the labour market. 
The  Presidency  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina 

adopted 
the 
Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities, 
while 
the  State  Ministry  of  Human  Rights  and 
Refugees  is  working  on  establishing  a  council  for 
persons with disabilities. 

A  project  aimed  at  strengthening  the  system  of 
children’s  social  protection  and  social  inclusion  is 
currently 
and 
Herzegovina.  It  aims  to  create  a  model  of  integrated 
child 
through  multisectoral 
cooperation.  With  the  support  of  Save  the  Children 
UK,  we  are  also  currently  implementing  a  project  on 
the  standardization  of  services  in  the  field  of  child 
protection.  These  two  projects  will  greatly  contribute 
to  harmonizing  regulations  and  improving  practice  in 
the field of social and child protection. 

A  war  of  aggression  was  waged  against  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina  from  1992  to  1995,  resulting  in 
genocide  and  mass  ethnic  cleansing  and  destruction. 
Only  a  fraction  of  the  refugees  and  displaced  persons 
who  were  forcibly  expelled  from  their  homes  have 
returned,  and  they  feel  that  their  basic  rights  are  still 
being  violated.  That  remains  a  huge  and  difficult 
challenge that must be addressed. 

international 
conventions  and  declarations,  of  the  Law  on  the 
Protection  of  the  Rights  of  Persons  Belonging  to 
National Minorities, adopted in 2003 at the State level, 
the  basis  of  a  series  of 
implemented 
social 
protection 
being 
in  Bosnia 
A/65/PV.9
and of the document on the Decade of Roma Inclusion 
2005-2015,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  developed  an 
Action  Plan  on  the  Educational  Needs  of  the  Roma, 
who  represent  the  biggest  national  minority  in  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina.  However,  for  various  reasons,  the 
results are not satisfactory, and much still remains to be 
done,  particularly  in  the  areas  of  education  and 
employment of Roma. 

The  Millennium  Development  Goals  reflect  the 
essence  of  all  the  activities  to  which  the  United 
Nations is  committed. It is, therefore, vital for Bosnia 
and Herzegovina to maintain the current positive trend 
by including these Goals in our policies and strategies. 
We are fully determined to continue working with our 
partners  in  the  international  community  in  order  to 
strengthen local self-responsibility and stimulate long-
term  development  on  the  path  to  full  membership  in 
the European Union. 

Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  is  a  country  rich  in 
human  and  natural  resources,  especially  in  water, 
agricultural  resources  and  renewable  energy.  We  have 
not yet been able to fully realize our country’s potential 
because  our  dysfunctional  ethnoterritorial  arrangements 
hinder  our  efforts  and  prevent  us  from  progressing  at 
the  desired  pace.  In  addition,  we  are  currently 
witnessing an escalation of open calls for secession of 
one  part  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  which  has  a 
destabilizing effect on the entire region. In order to be 
able 
fully  utilize  our  potential,  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  needs  to  carry  out  constitutional  reforms 
that will create a single economic space and make our 
Government functional and rational, so that it can meet 
the  needs  of  our  citizens.  The  support  of 
the 
international  community  in  this  reform  process  is 
essential. 

In conclusion, in order to make real progress, it is 
necessary  to  improve  the  quality  of  support  and 
coordination  among  donors,  including  both  financial 
and technical support, to ensure full support by United 
Nations  organizations  and  to  strengthen  partnerships 
among the public and private sectors and civil society. 
If  these  things  are  done,  I  am  hopeful  that  we  can 
achieve the Millennium Development Goals by 2015. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency Mr. Batbold Sukhbaatar, Prime Minister of 
Mongolia. 
to 
On 
10-54527 

5 
resources, 
renewed 
commitment 

is  encouraging 
that 
loud  and  clear 
A/65/PV.9 

Mr.  Sukhbaatar:  Over  the  past  three  days  we 

have discussed what has been achieved and what needs 
to  be  done  to  bridge  the  gaps  to  ensure  a  full  and 
timely  achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  Several  messages,  in  my  view,  came 
in  our  discussion.  With 
through 
adequate 
and 
intensified  collective  action,  the  MDGs  can  and  must 
be  achieved.  It 
this  shared 
conclusion  represents  the  main  thrust  of  the  draft 
outcome  document  entitled  “Keeping  the  promise: 
united to achieve the Millennium Development Goals” 
(A/65/L.1),  to  be  adopted  shortly  by  this  Summit.  My 
Government aligns itself fully with this document and 
stands ready to do its part. 
It goes without saying that our journey ahead will 

not  be  smooth  or  easy.  The  world  has  already  been 
grappling  with  multiple  and 
interrelated  crises, 
including  the  financial  and  economic  crisis,  volatile 
energy and food prices and ongoing concerns over food 
security, as well as the increasing challenges posed by 
climate  change.  Their  combined  effects  have  reversed 
hard-earned  development  gains, 
thus  heightening 
vulnerabilities  and  inequalities  in  many  developing 
countries. 

To withstand these and other emerging challenges 
requires  an  effective  and  enhanced  global  partnership 
for  development  that  recognizes  national  ownership 
and 
that  delivers  on 
commitments  already  made,  including  those  made  at 
Monterrey  and  Doha,  a  partnership  that  takes  into 
account  the  special  needs  of  and  challenges  faced  by 
vulnerable  countries,  including  landlocked  developing 
countries.  In  addition,  concerted  efforts  in  other  areas 
of  Goal  8  ought  to  be  vigorously  pursued  at  the 
international  level,  including  further  reform  of  the 
international  financial  institutions,  early  conclusion  of 
the  Doha  Round  with 
and 
development-oriented  outcome,  strengthened  regional 
integration  and 
trade  and  sustainable  debt-relief 
measures  for  developing  countries,  especially  at  times 
of multiple crises. 

As  the  past  decade  of  MDG  implementation 
efforts  around  the  world  seems  to  reveal,  sustained 
economic  growth  per  se  is  not  sufficient.  It  must  also 
enable everyone, in particular the poor, to participate in 
and benefit from economic opportunities and must lead 
to  job  creation  and  be  complemented  by  effective 
social  policy.  Mongolia,  for  one,  is  endeavouring  to 
leadership,  a  partnership 
a 
comprehensive 
6 

implement  such  a  policy  with  a  view  to  ensuring  full 
implementation of its MDGs. 

Recently my Government concluded, via its third 
national  report  on  MDGs,  a  thorough  analysis  of  our 
progress  and  set  its  priorities  for  the  next  five  years 
and  beyond.  The  report  found  that  66  per  cent  of  our 
MDGs are on track. I am pleased to note that Mongolia 
succeeded early in achieving such targets as the ratio of 
girls  to  boys  in  secondary  schools,  the  percentage  of 
children  covered  by  basic  immunizations  and  the 
reduction of infant and under-five mortality rates. The 
overall  progress  we  have  made  is  the  result  of 
mainstreaming MDGs into our long-term development 
policy  document  and  budgetary 
framework,  and 
establishing  a  single  government  agency  responsible 
for  coordinating  the  implementation  of  MDGs  and 
creating a broad database for their assessment. 

Nonetheless,  the  report  also  sends  a  warning 
signal that the achievement of other targets is slow  or 
regressing.  The  most  challenging  among  these  are 
poverty  reduction,  gender  equality  and  environmental 
sustainability.  To  effectively  address  these  challenges 
and ensure that economic growth benefits every one of 
Mongolia’s citizens, my Government is taking a host of 
policy  measures.  Let  me  cite  here  some  of  the  most 
pertinent ones. 

Boosting  productive  employment,  especially 
among  youth,  through  supporting  job  creation  in 
labour-intensive industries is a high priority. There are 
a  number  of  industries  such  as  mining  and  road 
construction  where  the  labour  market  has  potential 
absorptive  capacity  for  young  people  with  a  set  of 
technical  skills.  Last  month,  my  Government  took  an 
important  decision 
investment, 
starting  this  fall,  into  vocational  schools  to  provide 
training for thousands of rural young people to prepare 
them for jobs in these industries. 

In promoting the equitable distribution of income 
and  opportunities  to  more  effectively  reach  those  in 
need,  my  Government  will  pay  special  attention  to 
improving  the  targeting  of  government  interventions 
aimed at strengthening health systems, providing better 
educational  opportunities,  generating  employment, 
supporting  nutrition  and  enhancing  social  protection, 
including through conditional cash transfers. 

Investment  in  rural  development  is  crucial  for 
sustaining  the  livelihood  of  some  40  per  cent  of  the 
population that lives off nomadic livestock-breeding, a 
to  channel  more 
10-54527 
transparent  and 
responsible  way 


highly climate- and weather-sensitive activity. Just this 
past winter, harsh weather constituted a natural disaster 
that  exacted  a  heavy  toll  on  thousands  of  herders, 
leaving them  without sources of income. This disaster 
has  critically  exposed  the  country’s  economic  and 
ecological  vulnerability  and  has  directly  affected  the 
implementation of the MDGs. 

Financing  these  policies  will  be  a  formidable 
task.  My  Government  will  continue  working  with  our 
development  partners  and  seeking  their  assistance, 
especially to offset our vulnerability to external shocks 
and  the  disadvantages  of  our  landlocked  location. 
Domestic  resource  mobilization  will,  however,  be 
crucial.  We  therefore  set  up  a  human  development 
fund, whereby revenues and royalties from the mining 
industry  will  be  pooled  to  support  health,  education 
and  other  social  services,  in  addition  to  our  efforts  to 
promote economic diversification. The recently passed 
fiscal  stability  law  is  another  tool  that  we  will  use  to 
manage the revenue inflows from our mining wealth in 
a 
to  mobilize 
resources for combating poverty. 

Serious  problems  of  land  degradation,  especially 
desertification  and  overgrazing,  deforestation  and 
illegal logging, water scarcity, loss of biodiversity and 
urban air pollution are causes for concern. The impact 
of  climate  change  on  land  conditions  in  Mongolia  is 
unmistakable.  Desertification  has  affected  more  than 
70  per  cent  of  our  land.  Water  scarcity  is  a  growing 
problem  and,  when  coupled  with  natural  disasters,  it 
directly threatens the human security of those affected. 
As  a  result  of  our  firm  commitment  to  combating  the 
impacts  of  environmental  degradation,  especially 
desertification, my Government held a special meeting 
in the Gobi Desert late last month. 

The  challenges  in  meeting  the  MDGs  are  many, 
so building enduring partnerships is  essential  for their 
effective  implementation.  This  should  involve  local 
Governments,  the  national  Government,  the  private 
sector and civil society at home, and our international 
development  partners,  both  bilateral  and  multilateral. 
Only  by  working  together  —  while  holding  ourselves 
mutually  accountable  —  will  we  be  able  to  deliver 
tangible  and  sustainable  results. And  let  me  conclude 
where  I  began,  my  Government  stands  ready  to  do  its 
part to achieve these results. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
A/65/PV.9
Excellency  Mr.  Wen  Jiabao,  Premier  of  the  State 
Council of the People’s Republic of China. 
Mr.  Wen  Jiabao  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 

World  leaders  at  the  United  Nations  Millennium 
Summit made a solemn commitment to make the right 
to  development  a  reality  for  everyone  and  free  the 
entire  human  race  from  hunger  and  poverty.  The 
progress  towards  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  over  the  past  decade  has  been  uneven  in 
different regions and fields. Many countries have yet to 
make  visible  headway  in  improving  the  health  of 
women  and  children,  achieving  gender  equality  and 
protecting  the  environment. A  considerable  number  of 
developing  countries  have  been  hit  hard  by  the  global 
financial crisis, natural disasters and volatilities in the 
food  and  energy  markets.  And  the  global  population 
living  in  hunger  has  increased.  Achieving  the  MDGs 
therefore remains a long and uphill journey. 

China,  an  active  and  sustained  supporter  of  the 
United  Nations  initiative,  has  made  tireless  efforts  to 
reach  the  MDGs.  Since  1978,  the  number  of  Chinese 
living  in  absolute  poverty  has  been  reduced  by  over 
200  million,  accounting  for  75  per  cent  of  the  total 
population 
in  developing 
countries. At  the same time, we  are keenly aware that 
China is a country with a large population and a weak 
economic  foundation.  We  are  confronted  with  the 
problem  of  imbalances  in  development  and  we  have 
tens  of  millions  of  people  living  in  poverty.  We  will 
further 
through 
development and we are confident that the MDGs will 
be achieved as scheduled in China. 

Over  the  years,  the  Chinese  Government  has 
provided  sincere  and  selfless  assistance  in  multiple 
forms  to  other  developing  countries  to  the  best  of  the 
country’s  ability.  We  will  further  strengthen  and 
improve  foreign  assistance  and  contribute  our  due 
share 
the  MDGs 
throughout the world. 
First,  let  me  address  the  issue  of  helping  to 

improve 
in  developing 
countries. In the coming five years, China will take the 
following  steps  in  support  of  better  livelihoods  for 
people in other developing countries: we will build 200 
schools,  dispatch  3,000  medical  experts,  train  5,000 
local  medical  personnel 
and  provide  medical 
equipment  and  medicine  to  100  hospitals,  build  200 
clean  energy  and  environmental  protection  projects, 
the  early  achievement  of 
lifted  out  of  poverty 
alleviation 
the 
livelihood  of  people 
to 
step 
up 
poverty 
10-54527 

7 
to  help 
them  counter 
Thirdly,  with  regard 
A/65/PV.9 

and  increase  assistance  to  small  island  developing 
States  in  disaster  prevention  and  mitigation  to  help 
build  up  their  capacity  in  countering  climate  change. 
Here, I would like to announce that China will, within 
the  next  three  years,  donate  US$14  million  to  the 
Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. 

Secondly, with regard to reducing and cancelling 
the  debts  of  the  least  developed  countries  (LDCs),  by 
the  end  of  2009, 
the  Chinese  Government  had 
cancelled debts worth 25.6 billion RMB yuan owed by 
50 heavily indebted poor countries and least developed 
countries.  We  will  cancel  their  debts  associated  with 
the  outstanding  governmental  interest-free  loans  that 
mature in 2010. 

to  deepening  financial 
cooperation  with  developing  countries,  China  has 
provided  $10  billion  in  concessional  loans  to African 
countries  and  $15  billion  of  credit  support  to  some 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN) 
countries 
international 
financial  crisis.  We  have  committed  to  contributing 
US$50  billion  to  the  International  Monetary  Fund 
resources  increase  with  an  explicit  request  that  the 
funds be used, first and foremost, to help LDCs. China 
will  continue  to  extend  a  certain  scale  of  financing 
support 
the  form  of 
concessional  loans  and  preferential  export  buyer’s 
credit.  

Fourthly, with regard to broadening economic and 
trade ties with developing countries, China has made a 
commitment 
to 
products  listed  under  95  per  cent  of  all  tariff  items 
from  relevant  LDCs.  Since  July  2010,  we  have  given 
zero-tariff  treatment  to  the  exports  from  33  LDCs 
under  more  than  4,700  tariff  items,  covering  the  vast 
majority  of  the  products  from  these  countries.  In  the 
future,  we  will  give  zero-tariff  treatment  to  more 
products  and  let  more  countries  benefit  from  this 
arrangement.  We  will  continue  to  encourage  Chinese 
companies 
in  developing 
countries.  

Fifthly,  with  regard  to  strengthening  agricultural 
cooperation with developing countries, in the next five 
years,  China  will  dispatch  3,000  agricultural  experts 
and  technical  staff,  provide  5,000  agriculture-related 
training  opportunities  in  China  and  enhance,  on  a 
priority  basis,  cooperation  with  other  developing 
countries 
rice, 
in  agricultural  planning,  hybrid 
to  developing  countries 
in  zero-tariff 
to  expand 
investment 
to  phase 
treatment 
the 
in 

and 
regard 
for  people 
conservancy 
Sixthly,  with 
farmland  water 
aquaculture, 
agricultural machinery.  

to  helping  developing 
countries  develop  human  resources,  in  the  next  five 
years, China will train another 80,000 professionals in 
various  fields  for  developing  countries.  We  will 
increase  the  number  of  scholarships  and  mid-career 
Master’s  degree  programmes 
from 
developing countries and provide training opportunities 
in China to 3,000 school principals and teachers. 
Since July this year, in order to support Pakistan’s 

efforts  in  fighting  floods  and  rebuilding  the  country, 
China has decided to provide it with 320 million RMB 
yuan  of  humanitarian  assistance  and  has  sent  a  relief 
team  to  the  disaster-stricken  areas.  I  wish  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  announce  that  China  will,  on  top  of  its 
pledged assistance, provide an additional $200 million 
to assist Pakistan. 
The  next  five  years  will  be  crucial  to  achieving 

the  MDGs. The  international  community  must,  with  a 
greater  sense  of  urgency  and  responsibility,  take 
decisive  steps  in  the  following  areas  to  achieve 
common  progress.  In  identifying  work  priorities,  the 
international  community  should  give  high  priority  to 
helping  Africa 
to  eliminate  poverty  and  achieve 
development  and  to  increasing  support  to  the  least 
developed  countries.  Developing  countries  should 
consider  poverty  eradication  through  development  a 
central 
to  strengthen  national 
development  capacities.  Developed  countries  must 
honour  their  commitments  in  good  faith,  raise  the 
official  development  assistance  share  of  their  gross 
national  income  to  0.7  per  cent  at  an  early  date,  and 
provide  long-term,  stable  and  predictable  financial 
assistance  to  developing  countries.  Assistance  should 
be selfless and have no strings attached. 

To  improve  implementation  mechanisms,  the 
United Nations should continue to play a central role in 
international  development  cooperation.  It  is  important 
to establish an MDG assessment mechanism at an early 
date  and  to  strengthen  international  cooperation  and 
coordination.  In  order  to  establish  sustainable  peace, 
all  countries  and  nations  should  relinquish  past 
grievances,  resolve  disputes  by  peaceful  means,  and 
create conditions for peaceful development. 

The  adoption  of  the  Millennium  Declaration 
(resolution 55/2) brought light to people suffering from 
poverty around the world. Let us work more diligently 
task  and  continue 
8 

10-54527 


and  strengthen  cooperation  in  order  to  attain  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  on  schedule  and  to 
support 
the  development  and  progress  of  all 
humankind.  
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency Mr. Lars Løkke Rasmussen, Prime Minister 
of the Kingdom of Denmark. 
Mr.  Rasmussen  (Denmark):  The  Millennium 

Development  Goals  (MDGs)  are  critical  to  our  global 
effort to meet the challenges posed by poverty, disease 
and  conflict.  Since  their  adoption  10  years  ago,  the 
world has undergone significant changes, yet the Goals 
are  as  important  as  ever.  Despite  the  emergence  of  a 
new global landscape, they remain a common reference 
point for our joint effort to create a better tomorrow for 
the poorest and most vulnerable. 

At  this  High-level  Plenary  Meeting,  we  have 
reaffirmed our resolve to meet and achieve the MDGs 
by 2015. This is a strong message following a period of 
global  crisis  that  has  affected  all  of  us.  We  have 
learned  that  business  as  usual  is  no  longer  good 
enough.  And  this  lesson  is  just  as  relevant  when  it 
comes 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  Luckily,  we  now  know  what 
works and what does not work. Therefore, we must all 
focus  on  implementation  during  the  remaining  five 
years. 

The  private  sector  is  instrumental  to  creating 
sustainable economic growth and employment. Without 
private sector-driven growth, we will not be successful 
in  eradicating  poverty  or  mobilizing  the  necessary 
domestic  resources  for  education,  health  and  other 
social  services.  We  must  ensure  that  the  benefits  of 
growth  reach  the  poor  and  that  they  generate  freedom 
and opportunities for individuals to change their lives. 
This is particularly important in Africa. 

the  Africa 
Commission  with  the  participation  of  African  leaders 
and key stakeholders. The  Commission underlined the 
importance of growth and employment, particularly for 
young people, who represent a huge untapped resource. 
Based  on  the  work  of  the  Commission,  Denmark  is 
doubling  its  support  for  private  sector  development  in 
Africa. To  move  this  agenda  forward,  I  was  honoured 
to  co-sponsor  an  event  on  inclusive  growth  and 
employment  in Africa  this  morning  with  the  President 
of  Liberia  and  the  Prime  Minister  of  Tanzania.  Our 
In  2008,  Denmark  established 
fulfilment  of 
the 
to 
A/65/PV.9
The 
international 
community  must 
geographic  and  economic  points  of  departure  may  be 
different,  but  we  see  eye  to  eye  on  the  importance  of 
inclusive economic growth that generates employment. 

also 
acknowledge  that  conflict is a barrier to development. 
In many areas affected by conflict, achieving long-term 
development  and  economic  growth  remains  a  distant 
goal, full of barriers and risks of setback.  

We are sending a clear message at this summit – 
women are agents of development. Equality and equal 
opportunities  for  women  are  a  vital  engine  for 
economic  and  social  development. There  is  no  chance 
whatsoever  of  achieving 
the  MDGs  without  a 
strengthened  focus  on  women’s  empowerment.  If 
women  are  to  make  use  of  their  full  potential,  they 
must  be  able  to  decide  freely  if  and  when  they  want 
children,  and they must have access to health services 
when  giving  birth.  Denmark  supports  developing 
countries  in  their  realization  of  women’s  sexual  and 
reproductive health and rights.  
Mr. Deiss, Co-Chair, took the Chair. 


Developing countries must take responsibility for 
their  own  development.  I  am  pleased  that  many 
developing  countries  have  turned  the  MDGs  into 
national  targets.  At  the  same  time,  donor  countries 
must live up to their commitments. Denmark is one of 
only five countries in the world that exceeds the target 
of  0.7  per  cent  of  their  gross  national  income  for 
official development assistance.  

We  will  continue  to  work  to  ensure  that  our  aid 
achieves  results  and  makes  a  difference. This  requires 
focus  and  a  willingness  to  prioritize  our  development 
cooperation.  Our  global  partnership 
is  constantly 
evolving.  New  actors  are  emerging.  We  are  seeing 
increased  South-South  cooperation  and 
increased 
public-private  collaboration.  And  we  have  witnessed 
how  private  foundations  have  shown  the  way  on 
important development issues. We must ensure that all 
of  these  efforts  are  directed  towards  the  same  goal  — 
the  achievement  of 
the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. 

We have gained valuable experience over the past 
10  years.  The  challenge  has  been  clearly  defined.  We 
now have five years left. We have to do it right and we 
have  to  start  today.  Denmark  stands  ready  to  do  its 
part. 
10-54527 

9 
The  MDGs  have  become 
A/65/PV.9 

The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Alik  L.  Alik,  Vice  President  of  the 
Federated States of Micronesia 
Mr. Alik  (Federated  States  of  Micronesia):  I  am 

deeply honoured to share with the Assembly today the 
experience of my country in pursuit of the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  This  is  a  story  of 
achievements as well as challenges for my country, the 
Federated  States  of  Micronesia.  During  the  2000 
Millennium  Summit,  we  committed  ourselves 
to 
establishing  a  new  global  partnership 
to  reduce 
extreme poverty and hunger, to improve the quality of 
education and health, to pursue gender equality and to 
promote  environmental  integrity  and  sustainability, 
among other tasks. Five years later, that commitment to 
the MDGs was reaffirmed. 

framework 
document  guiding  concrete  measures  undertaken  by 
countries in different parts of the globe. The ambitious 
expectation is that by 2015 millions of people will rise 
out of hunger and extreme poverty and have access to 
better  educational  opportunities,  safe  water,  sanitation 
and  health  care  and  treatment.  While  achievements 
have  been  made  in  various  sectors,  the  recent  global 
financial and economic crises have imposed enormous 
impediments to meeting the targets and indicators. 

I am happy to report that the alarming population 
growth  rate  of  my  country  was  reduced  during  the 
1990s by almost 50 per cent and is now maintained at 
3.28  per  cent  annually.  But  we  cannot  take  full 
satisfaction in this one index alone. We know only too 
well  that  we  need  to  do  better  in  terms  of  per  capita 
income 
development. 
Employment  and  income  are  at  the  very  heart  of 
poverty  reduction.  The  creation  of  job  opportunities 
will  require  policy  reforms.  The  establishment  of  a 
regulatory environment conducive to trade and private 
sector development is also important. Our policy is to 
streamline the size of Government; in so doing, we are 
taking  care  to  ensure  that  essential  services  are  not 
adversely impacted in a wholesale manner.  

to  our  development 
partners  and  friends  for  their  support  and  cooperation 
over the years, we realize that we must face reality and 
chart 
economy 
overwhelmingly  dominated  by  a  large  public  sector,  a 
major  part  of  the  challenge  to  our  efforts  to  meet  the 
While  we  are  grateful 
generation 
human 
our 
own 
course.  With 
our 

MDGs  is  the  reduction  in  our  resources  of  traditional 
bilateral  assistance.  In  this  respect,  I  underscore  the 
importance  of  the  international  community  honouring 
its  commitment  to  provide  0.7  per  cent  of  gross 
national income for official development assistance. 

Micronesia  has  a  special  partnership  agreement 
with  the  United  States  that  is  enshrined  in  a  treaty 
called  the  Compact  of  Free  Association.  The  treaty 
includes an economic package upon which we pin high 
hopes to stimulate our efforts towards the attainment of 
the  MDGs  through  improvement  in  the  health  and 
education sectors. 

Despite  our  best  efforts,  economic  activity  in 
Micronesia  since  the  amended  Compact  went  into 
effect  in  2004  has  been  unsteady  and  sporadic.  For 
example, real gross domestic product (GDP) recovered 
from  a  decline  of  3.4  per  cent  in  previous  years  to  a 
positive  1.6  per  cent  growth  between  2004  and  2005. 
That  brief  positive  growth  was  again  followed  by  a 
decline  in  the  ensuing  years  until  2009,  when  GDP 
slightly  recovered  with  a  0.4  per  cent  growth.  That 
modest  growth  in  GDP  is  further  offset  by  three 
observable  trends:  sluggishness  in  real  per  capita 
income,  reduction in employment and increase in out-
migration. 

Applying the  definition or  criteria of the MDGs, 
it  is  estimated  that  30  per  cent  of  our  population  live 
below the national poverty line. It seems unlikely that 
my  country  will  halve  this  proportion  by  2015.  I  am 
pleased  to  note  that,  consistent  with  our  strategic 
development  plan,  addressing  poverty  through  job 
creation  remains  part  of  our 
long-term  national 
objective.  In  addition,  a  poverty  alleviation  strategy 
would  be  needed  in  order  to  reverse  the  ongoing 
process  of  out-migration  and  the  potential  adverse 
impact  of  the  expansion  of  the  informal  economic 
sector. 

In  education,  I  am  pleased  to  report  that  we  are 
achieving  high  enrolment  rates  at  the  primary  school 
level. Gross and net enrolment is over 90 per cent. The 
near  parity  between  girls  and  boys  in  elementary 
schools  and  the  higher  levels  of  enrolment  of  girls  in 
high  schools  are 
in  my 
country. The literacy rate for persons 15 to 24 years old 
is  over  90  per  cent,  and  is  slightly  higher  for  females 
than  for  males.  My  Government  is  committed  to 
placing  high  priority  on  further  improving  the  quality 
of education in the coming years. It is for this reason, 
important  achievements 
10-54527 
the 
and 
10 

in 
the 
labour 


among  others,  that  we  need  to  direct  significant 
attention  to  the  remaining  5  per  cent  of  our  children 
who are still outside our education system.  

I  believe  that  the  increased  access  to  education 
has  helped  to  considerably  narrow  the  gender  gap. 
However,  more  efforts  are  needed  to  increase  the 
participation  of  women 
force. 
Improvements 
in  women’s  health  are  a  priority, 
including better access to reproductive health care and 
reducing 
the  prevalence  of  non-communicable 
diseases, notably in our outer islands. 

I  believe  that  the  ratification  of  the  Convention 
on  the  Elimination  of  All  Forms  of  Discrimination 
against Women has certainly helped to raise the profile 
of  women  in  our  island  communities.  We  have  taken 
other  initiatives  to  address  issues  relating  to  women’s 
political  representation,  maternity  leave  and  domestic 
violence.  Legislation  creating  a  national  commission 
on the status of women was also recently introduced in 
our national congress. 

The  challenges  to  achieving  the  MDGs  in  the 
health  sector  are  in  the  areas  of  child  mortality  and 
improving maternal health. It is urgent to address both 
areas  effectively.  In  my  country,  reducing  child 
mortality has been a long-standing priority, and we are 
on track to achieve MDG 4. That effort will be further 
bolstered  with  targeted  interventions  in  the  primary 
health care system and in communities. It is necessary 
to increase the number of pregnant women who receive 
adequate  prenatal  care  and  to  reduce  post-neonatal 
deaths  by  improving  living  conditions.  The  Federated 
States  of  Micronesia  is  also  on  track  to  achieve  the 
maternal mortality rate target. However, more attention 
needs  to  be  given  to  universal  access  to  reproductive 
health  services,  especially 
the 
population is widely dispersed. 

is  a  national 
priority,  and  a  national  strategic  plan  to  address  the 
issue  has  been  prepared.  Programmes  operate  at  both 
the  national  and  the  state  levels,  and  focus  has  been 
given  to  prevention,  community-based  planning  and 
care  for  persons  living  with  HIV/AIDS. We  have  also 
focused  on 
the  number  of  cases  of 
tuberculosis,  diabetes,  heart  disease  and  cancer.  A 
comprehensive  and  coordinated  non-communicable 
disease  programme  is  ongoing.  More  awareness  is 
necessary  to  reduce  behavioural  risk  factors,  such  as 
The  prevention  of  HIV/AIDS 
in  areas  where 
reducing 
A/65/PV.9
the  necessary  commitments 
tobacco  use,  alcohol  abuse  and  lack  of  physical 
activity. 

I  have  highlighted  our  achievements  and 
challenges,  but  there  is  a  far  larger  challenge  that 
would  render  all  our  achievements  irrelevant.  We 
cannot  meaningfully  talk  about  the  MDGs  unless  the 
international community addresses the real danger that 
Micronesia  and  other  small  island  developing  States 
will  disappear  because  of  the  adverse  impacts  of 
climate  change.  In  short,  we  are  the  least  responsible 
but most vulnerable. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency Mr. Nick Clegg, Deputy Prime Minister of 
the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern 
Ireland. 
Mr. Clegg (United Kingdom): It is an honour for 

me to address the General Assembly today for the first 
time as Deputy Prime Minister of the United Kingdom. 
It is a privilege to be here to discuss how, together, we 
can reach the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 
and  make 
towards 
eradicating  the  problems  that  blight  the  world  we 
share:  poverty,  hunger,  disease  and  the  degradation  of 
our natural environment. 

the  progress, 
assessing  the  obstacles  and  agreeing  a  framework  for 
action  to  meet  our  targets.  Those  are  the  technocratic 
terms  in  which  Governments  must  necessarily  trade, 
but  let  us  be  clear.  Behind  the  officialese  of  summits 
lies our single, common purpose to uphold the dignity 
and  security  that  is  the  right  of  every  person  in  every 
part of the world. 

In  the  end,  development  is  about  freedom.  It  is 
about freedom from hunger and disease; freedom from 
ignorance;  and  freedom  from  poverty.  Development 
means  ensuring  that  every  person  has  the  freedom  to 
take their own life into their own hands and determine 
their  own  fate.  The  past  decade  has  seen  some 
important  progress.  That  progress  has,  however,  been 
uneven  and,  on  a  number  of  our  Goals,  we  remain 
significantly off track. So, my message today from the 
United Kingdom Government is that we will keep our 
promises  and  we  expect  the  rest  of  the  international 
community  to  do  the  same.  For  our  part,  the  new 
coalition  Government  has  committed 
to  reaching 
0.7 per  cent  of  gross  national  income  devoted  to  aid 
from  2013  —  a  pledge  that  we  will  enshrine  in  law. 
This  week,  we  are  reviewing 
10-54527 

11 

time  of  significant  difficulty 
A/65/PV.9 

That  aid  will  be  targeted  in  ways  that  we  know  will 
make the biggest difference. 

I  am  pleased  to  announce  today  that  the  United 
Kingdom  will  be  stepping  up  our  efforts  to  combat 
malaria.  In  Africa,  a  child  dies  from  that  easily 
preventable disease every 45 seconds. So we will make 
more money available and ensure that we get more for 
our  money,  with  the  aim  of  halving  malaria-related 
deaths in 10 of the worst affected countries. 

The  United  Kingdom  Government  is  also  proud 
to  be  boosting  our  contribution  to  the  international 
drive on maternal and infant health, spearheaded by the 
Secretary-General. Our new commitments will save the 
lives  of  50,000  mothers  and  a  quarter  of  a  million 
babies by 2015. 
The United Kingdom makes such commitments at 

a 
in  our  domestic 
economy.  The  new  Government  has  inherited  a  £156-
billion  budget  deficit,  so  increasing  our  international 
aid  budget  is  not  an  uncontroversial  decision.  Some 
critics have questioned that decision,  asking why,  at a 
time  when  people  at  home  are  making  sacrifices  in 
their pay and their pensions, we are increasing aid for 
people in other countries.  

But  we  make  that  choice  because  we  recognize 
that  the  promises  that  the  United  Kingdom  has  made 
must hold in the bad times as well as the good, and that 
they  are  even  more  important  now  than  they  were 
before;  because  we  understand  that,  while  we  are 
experiencing  hardship  on  our  shores,  it  does  not 
compare  to  the  abject  pain  and  destitution  of  others; 
because  we  take  seriously  the  fact  that  the  new 
coalition  Government  is  the  last  Government  able  to 
deliver on our country’s promises in time for the 2015 
MDG deadline; and because we know that doing so is 
in our own, enlightened self-interest. 

When  the  world  is  more  prosperous,  the  United 
Kingdom  will  be  more  prosperous.  Growth  in  the 
developing  world  means  new  partners  with  which  to 
trade and new sources of global growth. Equally, when 
the  world  is  less  secure,  the  United  Kingdom  is  less 
secure within it. 

Climate  change  does  not  somehow  stop  at  our 
borders.  When  pandemics  occur,  we  are  not  immune. 
And when poverty and poor education fuel the growth 
of global terrorism, our society bears the scars too. 
their 
commitments, 
to  show  equal 

Twenty-two  of  the  34  countries  furthest  from 
reaching  the  MDGs  are  in  the  midst  of  or  emerging 
from violent conflict. These are fragile spaces, such as 
Afghanistan,  where  hate  can  proliferate  and  terrorist 
attacks can be planned, where organized criminals can 
harvest  the  drugs  that  ravage  our  streets,  and  where 
families  are  persecuted,  displaced  and  pushed  to  seek 
refuge with us.   So  we  do  not  see  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  just  as  optimistic  targets  for 
faraway  lands.  They  are  not  simply  charity,  nor  are 
they  pure  altruism.  They  are  also  the  key  to  lasting 
safety  and  future  prosperity  for  the  people  of  the 
United Kingdom and, of course, for people right across 
the globe. 

We  welcome  the  General  Assembly’s  agreement 
to  annually  review  the  progress  made  against  the 
commitments  agreed  at  this  summit.  The  United 
Kingdom will stand up to that test, and today I call on 
others 
resolve.  The  Millennium 
Development  Goals  must  be  a  priority  for  each  and 
every  nation  represented  in  this  Hall.  Developed 
nations  must  honour 
and 
developing  nations  must  understand  that  they  will  not 
receive a blank cheque.  
Developing  countries  and  donors  must  work 

together  as  equal  partners 
towards  securing  our 
common  interest. They  will  be  expected  to  administer 
aid  in  ways  that  are  accountable,  transparent  and 
responsible,  creating  the  conditions  for  economic 
growth  and  job  creation;  prioritizing  national  budgets 
on health, infrastructure, education and basic services; 
managing  natural  resources,  particularly  biodiversity, 
in an environmentally sustainable way; and improving 
the  lives  of  women  and  girls  —  empowering  them, 
educating them, and ensuring healthy mothers can raise 
strong children. There can be no doubt that women and 
girls  hold  the  key  to  greater  prosperity  for  their 
families, their communities and their nations, too. 

If we each step up, we can meet the Millennium 
Development Goals. We can liberate millions of people 
from  daily  suffering,  and  give  them  the  resources  to 
take  control  of  their  lives  and  their  destinies.  May 
future generations look back and say that they inherited 
a better world because, at this critical moment, at this 
difficult  moment,  we  did  not  shrink  from  our 
responsibilities.  Let  them  say  that  we  rose  to  the 
challenge and that we kept our promise. 
12 

10-54527 
living  up 
to  work  for 


The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency Mr. Barack Obama, President of the United 
States of America. 
President  Obama:  In  the  Charter  of  this  United 

Nations,  our  countries  pledged 
the 
promotion of the economic and social advancement of 
all  peoples.  In  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights,  we  recognized  the  inherent  dignity  and  rights 
of  every  individual,  including  the  right  to  a  decent 
standard of living. And a decade ago, at the dawn of a 
new  millennium,  we  set  concrete  goals  to  free  our 
fellow men, women and children from the injustice of 
extreme poverty. 

Those are the standards that we set, and today we 
must  ask:  Are  we 
to  our  mutual 
responsibilities?  With  our  economies  struggling,  so 
many people out of work and so many families barely 
getting  by,  I  suspect  that  some  in  wealthier  countries 
may  ask,  “Why  a  summit  on  development”?  The 
answer  is  simple.  In  our  global  economy,  progress  in 
even  the  poorest  countries  can  advance  the  prosperity 
and  security  of  people  far  beyond  their  borders, 
including my fellow Americans. 

When  a  child  dies  from  a  preventable  disease,  it 
shocks all of our consciences. When a girl is deprived 
of an education or her mother is denied equal rights, it 
undermines  the  prosperity  of  their  nation.  When  a 
young  entrepreneur  cannot  start  a  new  business,  it 
stymies the creation of new jobs and markets not only 
in  that  entrepreneur’s  country,  but  also  in  our  own. 
When  millions  of  fathers  cannot  provide  for  their 
families,  it  feeds  the  despair  that  can  fuel  instability 
and  violent  extremism.  When  a  disease  goes 
unchecked,  it  can  endanger  the  health  of  millions 
around the world. 

that 
development  is  mere  charity  that  does  not  serve  our 
interests.  Let  us  reject  the  cynicism  that  says  certain 
countries  are  condemned  to  perpetual  poverty,  for  the 
past  half-century  has  witnessed  more  gains  in  human 
development than at any time in history. A disease that 
had  ravaged  generations,  smallpox,  was  eradicated. 
Health  care  has  reached  the  far  corners  of  the  world, 
saving  the  lives  of  millions.  From  Latin  America  to 
Africa  and Asia,  developing  nations  have  transformed 
into leaders in the global economy. 
the  old  myth 
let  us  put 
to  rest 
So 
A/65/PV.9
towards 
achieving 
Nor  can  anyone  deny  the  progress  that  has  been 

made 
certain  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  The  doors  of  education 
have  been  opened  to  tens  of  millions  of  children  — 
boys  and  girls.  New  cases  of  HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and 
tuberculosis  are  down. Access  to  clean  drinking  water 
is up. Around the world, hundreds of millions of people 
have been lifted out of extreme poverty. That is all for 
the  good,  and  it  is  a  testimony  to  the  extraordinary 
work that has been done both within countries and by 
the international community. 

Yet  we  must  also  face  the  fact  that  progress 
towards other Goals that were set has not come nearly 
fast  enough  for  the  hundreds  of  thousands  of  women 
who lose their lives every year simply giving birth; for 
the  millions  of  children  who  die  from  the  agony  of 
malnutrition;  and  for  the  nearly  1  billion  people  who 
endure the misery of chronic hunger. 

That  is  the  reality  that  we  must  face.  If  the 
international  community  just  keeps  doing  the  same 
things  the  same  way,  we  may  make  some  modest 
progress  here  and  there  but  we  will  miss  many 
Development  Goals.  That  is  the  truth.  With  10  years 
down  and  just  five  years  before  our  development 
targets are due, we must do better. 

Now,  I  know  that  helping  communities  and 
countries realize a better future is not easy. I have seen 
it in my own life. I saw it in my mother as she worked 
to  lift  up  the  rural  poor  from  Indonesia  to  Pakistan.  I 
saw  it  on  the  streets  of  Chicago,  where  I  worked  as  a 
community 
up 
underdeveloped  neighbourhoods  in  this  country.  It  is 
hard work, but I know progress is possible. 

As President, I have made it clear that the United 
States will do our part. My National Security Strategy 
recognizes  development  not  only  as  a  moral 
imperative, but as a strategic and economic imperative. 
Secretary  of  State  Clinton  is  leading  a  review  to 
strengthen and better coordinate our diplomacy and our 
development  efforts.  We  have 
re-engaged  with 
multilateral  development 
institutions,  and  we  are 
rebuilding  the  United  States  Agency  for  International 
Development  as  the  world’s  premier  development 
agency.  In  short,  we  are  making  sure  that  the  United 
States  will  be  a  global 
international 
in 
development in the twenty-first century. 
However,  we  also  recognize  that  the  old  ways 

will  not  suffice.  That  is  why,  in  Ghana  last  year,  I 
organizer 
leader 
trying 
to 
build 
10-54527 

13 
our 
To  pursue 
new  United 
to  development 
A/65/PV.9 

called  for  a  new  approach 
that 
unleashes  transformational  change  and  allows  more 
people to take control of their own destiny. After all, no 
country  wants  to  be  dependent  on  another.  No  proud 
leader  in  this  Hall  wants  to  ask  for  aid.  No  family 
wants to be beholden to the assistance of others. 

that  vision,  my  Administration 
conducted  a  comprehensive  review  of  America’s 
development  programmes.  We  listened  to  leaders  in 
Government, non-governmental organizations (NGOs), 
civil society, the private sector, philanthropy, Congress 
and  our  many  international  partners. And  today,  I  am 
announcing 
States  Global 
Development  Policy  —  the  first  of  its  kind  by  an 
American  Administration.  It  is  rooted  in  America’s 
enduring  commitment  to  the  dignity  and  potential  of 
every  human  being,  and  it  outlines  our  new  approach 
and  the  new  thinking  that  will  guide  our  overall 
development efforts, including the plan that I promised 
last  year  and  that  my Administration  has  delivered  to 
pursue the Millennium Development Goals. Put simply, 
the United States is changing the way we do business. 

changing  how  we  define 
development.  For  too  long,  we  have  measured  our 
efforts  by  the  dollars  that  we  spent  and  the  food  and 
medicines  that  we  delivered.  But  aid  alone  is  not 
development.  Development 
to 
actually develop — moving from poverty to prosperity. 
And we need more than just aid to unleash that change. 
We need to harness all the tools at our disposal — from 
our  diplomacy  to  our  trade  policies  to  our  investment 
policies. 

Secondly,  we  are  changing  how  we  view  the 
ultimate goal of development. Our focus on assistance 
has saved lives in the short term, but it has not always 
improved those societies over the long term. Consider 
the  millions  of  people  who  have  relied  on  food 
assistance for decades. That is not development; that is 
dependence,  and  it  is  a  cycle  that  we  need  to  break. 
Instead  of  just  managing  poverty,  we  have  to  offer 
nations and peoples a path out of poverty. 

Now,  let  me  be  clear.  The  United  States  of 
America has been and will remain the global leader in 
providing  assistance.  We  will  not  abandon  those  who 
depend on us for life-saving help, whether it is food or 
medicine.  We  will  keep  our  promises  and  honour  our 
commitments. In fact, my Administration has increased 
assistance  to  the  least  developed  countries.  We  are 
is  helping  nations 
First,  we 
are 

to 
to 
funds 
increase 
working with partners to finally eradicate polio. We are 
building  on  the  good  efforts  of  my  predecessor  to 
continue 
fight  HIV/AIDS, 
increasing  those  funds  to  record  levels  —  and  that 
includes  strengthening  our  commitment  to  the  Global 
Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. And we 
will lead in times of crisis, as we have done since the 
earthquake in Haiti and the floods in Pakistan. 

But  the  purpose  of  development  —  what  is 
needed  most  right  now  —  is  creating  the  conditions 
where assistance is no longer needed. So we will seek 
partners  that  want  to  build  their  own  capacity  to 
provide for their people. We will seek development that 
is  sustainable. And  building  in  part  on  the  lessons  of 
the  Millennium  Challenge  Corporation,  which  has 
helped  countries  such  as  El  Salvador  to  build  rural 
roads  and  raise  the  incomes  of  its  people,  we  will 
invest in the capacity of countries that are proving their 
commitment to development. 

Remembering the lessons of the green revolution, 
we  are  expanding  scientific  collaboration  with  other 
countries  and  investing  in  game-changing  science  and 
technology to help spark historic leaps in development. 
For  example,  instead  of  just  treating  HIV/AIDS,  we 
have invested in pioneering research to finally develop 
a  way  to  help  millions  of  women  actually  prevent 
themselves  from  being  infected  in  the  first  place. 
Instead  of  simply  handing  out  food,  our  food  security 
initiative  is  helping  countries  such  as  Guatemala, 
Rwanda  and  Bangladesh  to  develop  their  agriculture, 
improve crop yields and help farmers get their products 
to  market.  Instead  of  simply  delivering  medicine,  our 
Global  Health  Initiative  is  also  helping  countries  such 
as Mali and Nepal to build stronger health systems and 
better deliver care.  

And  with  financial  and  technical  assistance,  we 
will  help  developing  countries  embrace  the  clean 
energy  technologies  they  need  to  adapt  to  climate 
change and pursue low-carbon growth. In other words, 
we  are  making  it  clear  that  we  will  partner  with 
countries  that  are  willing  to  take  the  lead  because  the 
days  when  their  development  was  dictated  by  foreign 
capitals must come to an end. 

Now,  this  brings  me  to  a  third  pillar  of  our  new 
approach. To  unleash  transformational  change,  we  are 
putting a new emphasis on the most powerful force the 
world  has  ever  known  for  eradicating  poverty  and 
creating  opportunity.  It  is  the  force  that  turned  South 
14 

10-54527 
countries 
like  Sierra  Leone 
like  Ethiopia,  Malawi 


Korea from a recipient of aid to a donor of aid. It is the 
force  that  has  raised  living  standards  from  Brazil  to 
India.  And  it  is  the  force  that  has  allowed  emerging 
African 
and 
Mozambique  to  defy  the  odds  and  make  real  progress 
towards achieving the Millennium Development Goals, 
even  as  some  of  their  neighbours  —  such  as  Côte 
d’Ivoire — have lagged. 

The  force  I  am  speaking  about  is  broad-based 
economic  growth.  Now  every  nation  will  pursue  its 
own  path  to  prosperity,  but  decades  of  experience  tell 
us  that  there  are  certain  ingredients  upon  which 
sustainable  growth  and  lasting  development  depend. 
We  know  that  countries  are  more  likely  to  prosper 
when  they  encourage  entrepreneurship,  when  they 
invest  in  their  infrastructure,  and  when  they  expand 
trade and welcome investment. So we will partner with 
countries 
to  create  business 
environments  that  are  attractive  to  investment  and  do 
not scare it away. We will work to break down barriers 
to regional trade and urge nations to open their markets 
to  developing  countries.  We  will  keep  pushing  for  a 
Doha  Round  that  is  ambitious  and  balanced,  and  that 
works  not  just  for  major  emerging  economies,  but  for 
all economies. 

We  also  know  that  countries  are  more  likely  to 
prosper  when  Governments  are  accountable  to  their 
people.  So  we  are  leading  a  global  effort  to  combat 
corruption, which in many places is the single greatest 
barrier to prosperity and which is a profound violation 
of  human  rights. That  is  why  we  now  require  oil,  gas 
and  mining  companies  that  raise  capital  in  the  United 
States  to  disclose  all  payments  they  make  to  foreign 
Governments,  and  it  is  why  I  urged  the  Group  of 
Twenty  to  put  corruption  on  its  agenda  and  make  it 
harder  for  corrupt  officials  to  steal  from  their  own 
people and stifle their nation’s development. 

The  United  States  will  focus  our  development 
efforts  on  countries  like  Tanzania  that  promote  good 
governance  and  democracy,  the  rule  of  law  and  equal 
administration  of  justice,  transparent  institutions  with 
strong  civil  societies  and  respect  for  human  rights. 
Because  over  the  long  run,  democracy  and  economic 
growth go hand in hand. 

We will reach out to countries making transitions 
from  authoritarianism  to  democracy  and  from  war  to 
peace. The people of Liberia, for example, have shown 
that  even  after  years  of  war,  great  progress  can  be 
A/65/PV.9
achieved. And  as  others  show  the  courage  to  put  war 
behind  them  —  including,  we  hope,  in  the  Sudan  — 
the  United  States  will  stand  with  those  that  seek  to 
build and sustain peace. 

We  also  know  that  countries  are  more  likely  to 
prosper  when  they  tap  the  talents  of  all  their  people. 
That  is  why  we  are  investing  in  the  health,  education 
and rights of women and working to empower the next 
generation  of  women  entrepreneurs  and 
leaders. 
Because  when  mothers  and  daughters  have  access  to 
opportunity, that is when economies grow; that is when 
governance improves. 

And  it  is  why  we  are  partnering  with  young 
people,  who  in  many  developing  countries  make  up 
more  than  half  the  population.  We  are  expanding 
educational  exchanges,  like  the  one  that  brought  my 
father  here  to  America  from  Kenya.  And  we  are 
helping  young  entrepreneurs  succeed  in  a  global 
economy. As  the  final  pillar  of  our  new  approach,  we 
will  insist  on  more  responsibility  —  from  ourselves 
and  from  others.  We  insist  on  mutual  accountability. 
For  our  part,  we  will  work  with  Congress  to  better 
match our investments with the priorities of our partner 
countries.  Guided  by  the  evidence,  we  will  invest  in 
programmes that work; we will end those that do not. 
We need to be big-hearted but also hard-headed in our 
approach to development. 

To my fellow donor nations, I say: Let us honour 
our  respective  commitments.  Let  us  resolve  to  put  an 
end  to  hollow  promises  that  are  not  kept.  Let  us 
commit  to  the  same  transparency  that  we  expect  from 
others.  Let  us  move  beyond  the  old,  narrow  debate 
over how much money we are spending and instead let 
us focus on results — whether we are actually making 
improvements in people’s lives. 

Now, to developing countries I say: This must be 
your moment of responsibility as well. We want you to 
prosper and succeed. It is not only in your interest; it is 
in  our  interests.  We  want  to  help  you  realize  your 
aspirations  as  nations  and  the  individuals  in  each  of 
your  countries.  But  there  is  no  substitute  for  your 
leadership.  Only  you  and  your  people  can  make  the 
tough  choices  that  will  unleash  the  dynamism  of  your 
country.  Only  you  can  make 
sustainable 
investments that improve the health  and well-being of 
your  people.  Only  you  can  deliver  your  nations  to  a 
more  prosperous  and  just  future.  We  can  be  partners, 
but ultimately you have to take the lead. 
the 
10-54527 

15 
A/65/PV.9 


Finally,  let  me  say  this.  No  one  nation  can  do 
everything everywhere and still do it well. To meet our 
goals, we must be more selective and focus our efforts 
where  we  have  the  best  partners  and  where  we  can 
have the greatest impact. And just as this work cannot 
be done by any one Government, it cannot be the work 
of Governments alone. In fact, foundations, the private 
sector and NGOs are making historic commitments that 
have redefined what is possible. 

And this gives us the opportunity to forge a new 
division  of  labour  for  development  in  the  twenty-first 
century. It is a division of labour where, instead of so 
much  duplication  and 
inefficiency,  Governments, 
multilaterals  and  NGOs  are  all  working  together.  We 
each do the piece that we do best — as we are doing, 
for example, in support of Ghana’s food security plan, 
which will help more farmers get more goods to market 
and earn more money to support their families. 

That is the progress that is possible. Together, we 
can collaborate in ways unimaginable just a few years 
ago. Together, we can realize the future that none of us 
can  achieve  alone.  Together,  we  can  deliver  historic 
leaps  in  development.  We  can  do  this,  but  only  if  we 
move  forward  with  the  seriousness  and  sense  of 
common purpose that this moment demands. 
We  need  development  that  offers  a  path  out  of 

poverty 
child  who  deserves  better; 
development  that  builds  the  capacity  of  countries  to 
deliver the health care and  education that their people 
need;  development  that  unleashes  broader  prosperity 
and  builds  the  next  generation  of  entrepreneurs  and 
emerging  economies;  development  rooted  in  shared 
responsibility,  mutual  accountability  and,  most  of  all, 
concrete  results  that  pull  communities  and  countries 
from  poverty  to  prosperity.  These  are  the  elements  of 
America’s new approach. This is the work that we can 
do  together. And  this  can  be  our  plan,  not  simply  for 
meeting  our  Millennium  Development  Goals,  but  for 
exceeding 
for 
generations to come. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency Mr. Naoto Kan, Prime Minister of Japan. 
Mr.  Kan  (Japan)  (spoke  in  Japanese;  English 

interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  an 
honour  for  me  to  address  the  General  Assembly, 
representing my country, Japan. 
them  and 
them 
then 
sustaining 
for 
that 

themselves 
those  who  committed 

Ten  years  have  passed  since  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) were launched here at the 
United  Nations.  We  came 
together  under  one 
objective —  the  attainment  of  the  MDGs  —  and  we 
have  worked  together  to  fight  poverty.  During  this 
decade,  we  have  achieved  remarkable  victories.  The 
under-five  child  mortality  rate  has  been  decreased  by 
more  than  3.7  million  child  deaths  per  year,  as 
compared with 1990. An additional 37 million children 
have come to enjoy the benefits of primary education. I 
would like, at the outset, to express my respect for the 
efforts  of 
to 
achieving these outcomes. 

Such  advances  notwithstanding,  the  challenge  of 
achieving the Goals is not yet won. Today, in order to 
address  areas  where  progress  has  been  particularly 
slow, I will announce concrete promises in the field of 
health, including maternal and child health, as well as 
in  the  field  of  education,  including  basic  education.  I 
call this initiative the Kan commitment. 

Last June, on becoming Prime Minister, I made a 
pledge  to  the  people  of  Japan  that  I  would  achieve  a 
society  in  which  human  suffering  was  reduced  to  a 
minimum. I believe that the role of political leaders is 
to  minimize,  to  the  extent  possible,  sources  of  misery 
such  as  disease,  poverty  and  conflict.  In  other  words, 
their  role  is  to  establish  a  society  in  which  human 
suffering  is  reduced  to  a  minimum.  I  have  long  held 
that  belief,  and  I  think  that  it  resonates  with  the 
philosophy  behind  the  MDGs.  Only  when  such  a 
society  is  realized  can  each  and  every  individual  find 
his  or  her  own  way  of  life  and  take  on  challenges  for 
the fulfilment of personal dreams. 

My first promise based on this philosophy is that 
Japan will make contributions in the field of health in 
order to protect people’s lives. First of all, let me touch 
upon the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and 
Malaria, which Japan helped to found. 

Earlier  this  month,  I  visited  the  Global  Fund’s 
photo exhibition, “Access to Life”, which was held in 
Japan.  When  I  was  Minister  of  Health  and  Welfare,  I 
acknowledged  for  the  first  time  the  responsibility  of 
the  Government  concerning  the  issue  of  HIV/AIDS 
infection  caused  by  contaminated  blood  products.  I 
apologized  to  all  patients  and  reached  a  settlement. 
That  experience  made  me  even  more  powerfully 
interested  in  issues  associated  with  various  diseases, 
including HIV/AIDS.  
16 

10-54527 
The 
At 
that,  at 
the 
its 
intention 
treatment 
to  make 



recent  photo  exhibition  gave  me  an 
opportunity  to  renew  my  awareness  that  in  Asia, 
Africa,  South  America  and  many  other  places  in  the 
world  a  large  number  of  people  affected  by AIDS  are 
still losing their lives. At the same time, I should also 
note that, thanks to the development of new medicines, 
adequate 
can  prevent  mother-to-child 
transmission  of  HIV,  as  well  as  return  many  people 
living with HIV to society.  

The Global Fund has been playing an outstanding 
role,  and  I  would  like  to  pay  sincere  tribute  to  it.  I 
hereby  promise 
third  replenishment 
conference,  scheduled  for  next  month,  Japan  will 
announce 
contributions 
amounting to $800 million in the coming years. 

Another  major  cause  for  concern  is  the  fact  that 
the number of deaths among children under the age of 
five  remains  high  and  that  the  reductions  achieved  to 
date  in  the  mortality  rate  for  infants  and  pregnant 
women  are  still  far  short  of  the  targets  set  in  the 
MDGs.  We  need  to  exert  additional  drastic  efforts. 
Japan  will  provide  assistance,  in  the  amount  of 
$5 billion  over  five  years  beginning  in  2011,  to 
contribute  to  the  achievement  of  the  health-related 
MDGs. We make this contribution in order to save the 
lives of 680,000 mothers and 11.3 million children, in 
cooperation  with  other  partners.  Specifically,  Japan 
will  provide  intensive  assistance  centred  on  three 
pillars:  maternal  and  child  health, 
three  major 
infectious  diseases  and  measures  to  address  global 
threats such as new influenza viruses.  

time,  Japan  will  propose  an 
assistance model in maternal and child health that will 
give  people  in  need  access  to  appropriate  preventive 
services  and  medical  care. 
that  model 
EMBRACE  —  which  stands  for  Ensure  Mothers  and 
Babies Regular Access to Care — virtually to embrace 
mothers  and  children.  This  model  aims  to  deliver  a 
sequence  of  health  services,  including  prenatal  care 
with  routine  examinations  and  neonatal  care  at 
facilities with quality equipment and human resources, 
improved  access  to  hospitals  and  the  provision  of 
immunizations.  This  is  an  approach  to  ensure  a 
continuum  of  care  from  pregnancy  to  post-delivery.  I 
emphasized  the  importance  of  this  model  at  the 
Muskoka Summit of the Group of Eight, and obtained 
the endorsement of participating countries. I now take 
this  opportunity  to  call  once  again  on  developing 
countries  to  adopt  this  model,  and  on  donors  and 
the  same 
I  call 
A/65/PV.9
international organizations to make concerted efforts to 
implement optimal assistance measures in maternal and 
child health.  

I  am  convinced  that  Japan’s  world-class  medical 
services  and  leading  technologies  will  also  contribute 
to  the  solution  of  health  issues.  For  instance,  a 
Japanese  company  that  plays  a  leadership  role  in  my 
country’s  business  community  has  provided  tens  of 
millions  of  long-lasting  insecticide-treated  nets  to 
African countries. This product has its roots in Japan’s 
traditional life wisdom. A cutting-edge technology has 
made  it  possible  for  the  anti-insect  effect  to  be  long-
lasting. That has made an immeasurable contribution in 
the  struggle  to  eradicate  malaria.  As  that  example 
demonstrates,  the  role  to  be  played  by  civil  society, 
including  the  private  sector  and  non-governmental 
organizations,  is  very  significant.  I  fully  support  such 
endeavours on the part of civil society, now and in the 
future.  

For  its  part,  education,  in  conjunction  with  good 
health, provides the basis for participation in society. It 
is a cause of great dismay that in the world today there 
are  many  children  who  are  forced  into  hard  labour  or 
are  deprived  of  opportunities  to  receive  an  education 
due 
to  poverty  and  conflict.  Without  a  proper 
education,  young  people  cannot  realize  their  potential 
or  take  an  active  part  in  their  society. They  lose  hope 
and, in turn, society loses dynamism.  

Japan will provide $3.5 billion in assistance over 
five years beginning in 2011, so as to contribute to the 
achievement  of  the  education-related  MDGs  and  to 
provide  an  education  to  all  the  children  of  the  world, 
including those who have been marginalized and those 
living  in  conflict  areas.  To  that  end,  Japan  will 
cooperate with developing countries and other partners. 
This  assistance  will  provide  a  quality  education 
environment for at least 7 million children. Japan will 
also  pay  careful  attention  to  post-primary  education, 
namely,  secondary  education,  vocational  training  and 
tertiary education. Assistance for education leads to the 
creation  of  jobs  and  social  vitality,  which  I  consider 
essential. 

therefore  proposes  a  basic  education 
assistance model which encourages coordinated efforts 
among schools, communities and Governments for the 
comprehensive 
learning 
environment  in  such  areas  as  quality  of  teachers, 
school  management,  treatment  of  girls  and  disabled 
improvement 
Japan 
the 
of 
10-54527 

17 

A/65/PV.9 

students,  nutrition,  sanitation  and  child  physical 
fitness.  I  call  this  model  “School  for  All”,  and  I  am 
confident  that  the  introduction  of  this  model  in 
developing  countries  will  lead  to  the  diffusion  of 
sustainable  education.  I  call  on  donor  countries  and 
international organizations to work together to support 
children  around  the  world  in  accordance  with  this 
model.  Japan  will  definitely  be  standing  at 
the 
forefront of such efforts. 

Japan  attaches  importance  to  assistance  in  the 
field of health and education because it can serve as a 
basis  for  developing  countries  to  achieve  sustained 
development.  From  that  perspective,  achieving  the 
MDGs with an emphasis on these two fields is crucial. 
We must make the utmost effort to this end.  

It  is  important  to  follow  up  on  this  High-level 
Plenary  Meeting.  With  that  in  mind,  my  country 
proposes  to  hold  an  international  conference  in  Japan 
next year in  order to strengthen coordination among  a 
broad range of stakeholders, not only Governments but 
also  international  organizations  and  non-governmental 
organizations.  
Today,  I  have  announced  the  Kan  commitment, 

which  consists  of  concrete  measures  that  Japan  will 
take, particularly in the fields of health and education. 
This  is  our  promise  to  the  next  generation,  who  bear 
the  world’s  hopes  for  the  future.  The  MDGs  are  the 
promises  that  our  generation  must  keep  to  future 
generations.  The  path  to  their  achievement  overlaps 
with  the  path  towards  a  society  in  which  human 
suffering  is  reduced  to  a  minimum.  The  Goals  are 
interrelated,  and  much  more  needs 
to  be  done. 
However,  little  time  remains. We,  the  Member  States, 
need  to  renew  our  commitment  to  achieve  the  MDGs 
by 2015 and take action. Let us work together towards 
achieving this critical aim. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Han  Seung-
soo,  Presidential  Envoy  of  the  Republic  of  Korea  and 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-sixth 
session. 
Mr. Han Seung-soo (Republic of Korea): We are 

gathered here today at a moment well past the midway 
point  in  our  journey  to  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  by  the  2015  target  date. 
The  past  decade  has  witnessed  impressive  progress 
towards  meeting 
the  Goals.  However,  we  must 
continue  to  address  the  unmet  and  under-met  targets 
Following 
on 
Financing 
Conference 
in  Monterrey,  Mexico, 
across  sectors,  countries  and  regions,  so  that  we  can 
break  with  the  destiny  syndrome:  “where  you  live 
determines how you live”. 

To keep our promise to achieve the MDG targets 
by  2015,  it  will  be  critical  to  secure  adequate, 
consistent  and  predictable  financial  resources  for 
development. Donor countries must honour their long-
standing  promises  and  deliver  on  their  commitments. 
At  the  same  time,  development  financing  has  to  be 
broad-based,  going  beyond  official  development 
assistance (ODA), as we agreed at the United Nations 
International 
for 
Development 
in  2002,  a 
conference I had the honour of hosting in my capacity 
as  President  of  the  General Assembly  at  its  fifty-sixth 
session. 

Financing the MDGs has to start at home, too. We 
need to raise and allocate more domestic resources and 
revenues  through  improved  tax  systems  and  financing 
mechanisms.  Innovative  financing  mechanisms  also 
have much to offer to scale up existing resources. For 
its part, the Republic of Korea is taking concrete steps 
to fulfil its commitment to increase the volume of ODA 
to 0.25 per cent of its gross national income, about $3 
million,  by  2015.  We  are  also  utilizing  innovative 
financing mechanisms to increase our support to health 
sectors. 

Of  equal  importance  is  the  effective  use  of 
development resources. The call for more development 
resources  needs  to  go  hand  in  hand  with  the  effort  to 
improve  the  quality  and  effectiveness  of  development 
assistance 
through  enhanced  national  ownership, 
alignment,  harmonization,  managing  for  results  and 
mutual accountability. 
the  High-level  Forums  on  Aid 

Effectiveness  held  in  Rome,  Paris  and  Accra,  Korea 
will  host  the  fourth  such  meeting,  in  Busan,  Korea, 
next  year.  At  that  fourth  High-level  Forum,  we  will 
assess 
the  principles  on  aid 
effectiveness,  based  on  hard  data  and  on  close 
monitoring  of 
those  principles.  However,  our 
discussion  will  not  stop  there.  We  need  to  go  even 
further, moving beyond the aid effectiveness agenda at 
the Forum. Indeed, we have to broaden our concept of 
development 
on 
development  itself. What  ultimately  matters  is  not  the 
effectiveness of aid, but rather the development results 
it brings about. 
focus  more 
the 
relevance  of 
cooperation 
to 
18 

10-54527 
While 
these  MDG 
targets  are  pivotal 
in  his  report,  “Keeping 


We strongly support the Secretary-General’s view 

expressed 
the  Promise” 
(A/64/665),  that  the  intricately  interwoven  nature  of 
the MDGs calls for a holistic approach to development. 
Improvement  in  one  sector  will  carry  the  momentum 
over to other closely related Goals. For instance, Korea 
fully understands the far-reaching impact of health and 
education  on  development,  based  on 
its  own 
development  experiences.  Similarly,  gender  equality 
and  women’s  empowerment  will  have  a  multiplier 
effect for development.  
to 

development, 
their  progress  has  been  mostly 
disappointing.  To  partake  in  the  global  efforts  to 
remedy  these  shortfalls,  we  have  recently  joined  the 
Muskoka  Initiative  on  Maternal,  Newborn  and  Child 
Health. In a similar vein, we welcome and support the 
Secretary-General’s  Global  Strategy  for  Women’s  and 
Children’s Health. In addition, Korea has been a solid 
supporter  of  the  International  Drug  Purchase  Facility 
(UNITAID)  and  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS, 
Tuberculosis  and  Malaria.  I  am  also  pleased 
to 
announce that this year Korea became a new supporter 
of the GAVI Alliance — formerly known as the Global 
Alliance  for  Vaccines  and  Immunization  —  which 
focuses  on  improving  rates  of  child  mortality  through 
vaccination  for  those  under  five  years  old.  Korea  will 
be  the  first  Asian  country  to  participate  in  the  GAVI 
Alliance.  

Another  area  where  we  are  strengthening  our 
development  cooperation  is  addressing  environmental 
degradation and climate change, on which the future of 
humanity  so  critically  depends.  Korea  has  been 
implementing  the  East  Asia  Climate  Partnership  to 
support the efforts of Asia Pacific countries to address 
the challenges posed by climate change. We have also 
launched  a  low-carbon  green  growth  initiative  to 
contribute to the promotion of green industries, which 
will  be  integral  to  realizing  inclusive  and  equitable 
growth.  In  order  to  promote  low-carbon  green  growth 
and  to  share  our  experience  with  developing  and 
emerging  economies, 
the  Global  Green  Growth 
Institute was established in Korea three months ago. 
Our action plans need to be further focused on the 

regions  falling  behind  on  progress.  Most  of  the  sub-
Saharan  African  countries  and  the  least  developed 
countries  are  seriously  off  track  on  most  of  the  MDG 
targets.  While  Asia  remains  the  focus  of  Korea’s 
increasing  our 
development  cooperation,  we  are 
A/65/PV.9
inclusive 
and 
the 
including 
support  to  Africa  and  to  least  developed  countries  in 
other  regions.  In  this  regard,  we  are  implementing  a 
Korea-Africa  initiative  as  a  multi-year  programme  for 
partnership with African countries. The least developed 
countries  continue 
to  be  prominent  development 
partners  with  Korea.  Thus,  about  50  per  cent  of 
Korea’s bilateral assistance has been allocated to low-
income  countries, 
least  developed 
countries. 

By  investing  in  the  MDGs,  we  invest  in  global 
economic  growth.  The  growth  we  harness,  however, 
must  be 
equitable.  Sustainable 
achievement  of  poverty  eradication  comes  only  when 
we  obtain  inclusive  and  equitable  growth,  where 
people  across  every  sphere  of  society  are  allowed  to 
participate in the process of development and equitably 
enjoy the benefits of growth. 

Achieving the MDGs cannot be seen as an end in 
itself. Our work does not stop at achieving the MDGs. 
We must aim at sustaining them in the long run. It is in 
this  context  that,  at  the  forthcoming  Group  of Twenty 
(G  20)  summit  in  Seoul  in  November,  we  will 
deliberate on the ways to ensure development through 
sustainable  growth.  We  will  utilize  our  comparative 
advantage  as  a  group  of  major  global  economies  by 
concentrating  on  laying  the  foundations  for  growth, 
such  as 
trade,  human 
resources  development  and  financial  inclusion.  Thus, 
the G 20 will focus on increasing the sustainability of 
growth  by  enhancing  the  capacity  of  developing 
countries  and  by  securing  resilience  in  times  of 
financial and economic crisis. This will in turn further 
contribute to a sustained achievement of the MDGs. 

The road ahead will likely be more difficult than 
the  road  already  travelled.  But  with  the  renewed 
resolution  forged  today,  I  am  confident  that  we  will 
turn our global visions into reality as we chart our path 
to  2015.  Korea,  for  its  part,  remains  very  much 
committed  to  serving  in  a  leadership  role  in  bridging 
the  gap  between 
the  developed  and  developing 
countries. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now give the floor to His Excellency Mr. S.M. Krishna, 
Minister for External Affairs of India. 
Mr. Krishna (India): I am honoured to be present 

at this august gathering and to speak on the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  an  aspiration  that  so 
fittingly  captures  the  global  vision  and  promise  for 
infrastructure, 
investment, 
10-54527 

19 

A/65/PV.9 

humanity  in  the  twenty-first  century.  Allow  me  to 
begin  by 
thanking  you,  Mr.  Co-Chair,  for  your 
stewardship,  guidance  and  support  of  the  expansive 
development  agenda  of  the  United  Nations,  including 
the Millennium Development Goals. 

In his message on United Nations Public Service 
Day five years ago, our Prime Minister, Mr. Manmohan 
Singh, said: 


“The  Millennium  Development  Goals  that 
we  have  set  for  ourselves  cannot  be  met  unless 
Governments  are  proactive.  No  Government  in 
any  civilized  society  can  ignore  the  basic  needs 
of  people.  The  goal  of  the  development  process 
must  be  to  include  every  last  member  of  our 
society in that process.” 

As we take stock of the MDGs, we note that the 
world  as  a  whole  has  made  substantial  gains  but  that 
the  progress  is  uneven  and  falls  short  of  expectations. 
This  is  particularly  visible  in  the  so-called  forgotten 
MDGs, the MDGs that deal with women and children’s 
health.  We  are  therefore  happy  that  the  Secretary-
General has set out a Global Strategy for Women’s and 
Children’s Health. 

Natural  disasters  have  also  taken  a  toll  on  MDG 
achievement.  The  death  and  destruction  in  Haiti  and 
Pakistan  have  been  on  an  unprecedented  scale.  As  a 
fellow  developing  country  that  has  itself  seen  a  huge 
impact from such disasters, we responded, duty-bound 
in  solidarity,  to  assist  the  Governments  and  people  in 
the  affected  countries  to  the  best  of  our  ability  and  in 
keeping with their priorities. 

A  growing  concern  is  the  impact  of  climate 
change  on  vulnerable  communities  and  regions  in  our 
country.  Rain-fed  agriculture  accounts  for  60  per  cent 
of  crop  area  in  India.  Climate  change  has  aggravated 
the  situation  in  traditionally  drought-  and  flood-prone 
regions in the country. The National Rural Employment 
Guarantee  Scheme  was  designed  to  provide  relief  to 
affected  farming  communities  in  the  country.  We  in 
India are alive to the challenges of climate change, and 
remain  committed  to  mounting  appropriate  national 
and  regional  responses.  Our  national  action  plan  on 
climate  change  will  increase  the  share  of  clean  and 
renewable  energy  in  our  energy  mix,  increase  energy 
efficiency  across  the  economy  and  expand  our  forest 
cover. 

With  just  five  years  to  go  until  the  MDG  target 
year,  and  given  our  record  of  mixed  success,  it  is 
imperative that we significantly step up our individual 
and  collective  commitments  and  efforts  for 
the 
realization of the MDGs. 

Our  collective  efforts  have  certainly  borne  fruit 
towards  the  goal  of  poverty  eradication  at  the  global 
level.  But  more  than  60  million  people  slipped  back 
into  poverty  in  2009  following  the  economic  and 
financial  crisis  of  2008.  This  has  certainly  had  a 
regressive impact on the MDGs. 

It  is,  therefore,  important  that  we  ensure  that 
global  economic  recovery  is  durable,  balanced  and 
sustainable.  This  is  also  critical  for  achieving  the 
MDGs and for us to be able to effectively address the 
challenges of food and energy security, climate change 
and natural disasters. As far as India is concerned, our 
economy has shown resilience and is expected to grow 
by 8.5 per cent in 2010-2011, and by over 9 per cent in 
2011-2012. 

The  Millennium  Development  Goals  Report 
2010,  published  by  the  United  Nations,  notes  that 
India’s efforts on poverty reduction have been a major 
contributor  to  a  reduction  in  global  poverty  levels; 
some 188 million people in India will be out of poverty 
by 2015. We need, however, to be cognizant of the fact 
that  the  largest  concentration  of  poor  in  the  world 
remains in India and South Asia. The long distance we 
still  have  to  travel  to  put  poverty  behind  us  in  India 
should not be underestimated. 
Our efforts, therefore, are aimed at pushing push 

for  growth  while  ensuring  that  the  fruits  of  growth 
reach  out  across  our  society.  That  is  what  we  call 
inclusive growth. This indeed is the main objective of 
India’s 
development 
programmes. 

Rural 
Employment  Guarantee Act,  with  an  annual  budget  of 
$8  billion,  is  the  largest  cash  for  work  poverty 
alleviation  programme  in  the  world  and  has  benefited 
50 million rural households in India thus far. 

By  law,  all  Indian  children  aged  6  to  14  years 
must  now  receive  free  education.  Sarva  Shiksha 
Abhiyan, a universal elementary education programme 
with  an  annual  budget  of  $3  billion,  has  dramatically 
increased  primary  school  enrolment.  To  ensure  that 
children  remain  in  school,  and  that  this  also  benefits 
The  Mahatma  Gandhi  National 
ambitious 
socio-economic 
20 

10-54527 
in 
that 
seats 
in  parliament 
Enormous  strides  have  been  made 


them nutritionally, we also run the largest school lunch 
programme  in  the  world.  This  is  being  supplemented 
by  Saakshar  Bharat,  a  special  programme  focused  on 
female literacy launched in 2009.  

the 
empowerment  of  women.  India  has  embarked  on 
perhaps the most ambitious affirmative action initiative 
ever  by  mandating  that  one  third  of  all  elected 
positions  in  local  government  be  reserved  for  women. 
We  are  striving  to  raise  this  figure  even  higher.  More 
than  a  million  women  representatives  already  hold 
elected  positions  in  India.  Legislation  to  extend  the 
reservation  of 
is  under 
consideration. 

India  faces  enormous  challenges  in  the  areas  of 
women’s  and  children’s  health.  The  Government  of 
India  adopted  a  multi-pronged  strategy  under  the 
National Rural Health Mission in 2005 to provide rural 
area  health  care 
is  accessible,  affordable, 
accountable,  effective  and  reliable.  This  Mission  is 
fully  focused  on  improving  our  standing  on  maternal 
and child health indicators. Under the umbrella of this 
Mission, recently, in order to accelerate progress, new 
initiatives  have  been  identified,  namely,  the  name-
based  tracking  of  pregnant  women,  a  maternal  death 
review,  an  adolescent  reproductive  and  sexual  health 
programme, differential planning and an annual health 
survey.  

Janani  Suraksha  Yojana,  our  dedicated  safe 
motherhood  programme,  has  so  far  benefited  28 
million  women.  As  a  result  of  ongoing  efforts,  the 
maternal  mortality  rate  in  India  has  come  down  from 
301  per  100,000  live  births  during  the  period  2001-
2003 to 254 during the period 2004-2006, a decline of 
47 points over a period of three years. Though we are 
still  some  distance  away  from  the  target  of  109  by 
2015,  given  the  rate  of  decline  in  the  past  and 
comprehensive  efforts  being  made  across  the  country, 
it appears that India is on the right track with regard to 
MDG  5.  We  are  also  trying  to  take  similar  strides  on 
the infant mortality rate. 

India  has  made  notable  progress  on  combating 
HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  other  diseases.  The  HIV 
epidemic  has  reached  a  plateau  in  India,  and  we  now 
have the prevalence rate down to 0.34 per cent. 

India  has  made  valuable  use  of  technology  to 
bring  the  benefits  of  development  to  our  people. 
Teledensity in India has increased from 0.67 per cent in 
A/65/PV.9
already 
various 
registered  with 
courses, 
and 
1991 to 37 per cent in 2009. Our innovative  and low-
cost  technology  solutions  in  the  field  of  information 
technology and telecommunication have brought about 
development  benefits,  not  just  in  India,  but  also  to 
people in Africa, Latin America and elsewhere. 

In August 2010, we launched the second phase of 
the Pan-African e-network project. The network project 
will  link  all  53  countries  in  Africa  with  centres  of 
excellence in India for telemedicine and tele-education 
services.  More  than  1,700  students  from  African 
countries  have 
Indian 
universities 
for 
regular 
telemedical consultations have started between African 
doctors and Indian specialists. 

The  lack  of  progress  on  building  a  robust  global 
partnership  needs  to  be  urgently  addressed.  Unmet 
financial  commitments  by  developed  country  partners 
have  widened  the  financing  for  development  gap.  We 
call upon them to fulfil the commitment made long ago 
to  devote  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national  income  to 
official  development  assistance.  Equally  urgent  is  the 
need  to  transfer  technology  and  undertake  capacity-
building in developing countries.  

The quantum leap in South-South cooperation has 
significantly  complemented  global  resources  targeted 
at the development agenda, but it cannot be a substitute 
for North-South cooperation. We are happy that India’s 
development  partnership  with  countries  in  the  South 
today  goes  beyond  technical  cooperation.  Our  annual 
outlay on concessional lending and grants is well over 
$1 billion and covers countries in our region, in Africa 
and  beyond.  In  addition,  $5  billion  has  been  extended 
in  lines  of  credit  since  2003.  We  are  committed  to 
doing  more  in  the  coming  years  with  our  partners  in 
the  South  and  to  stepping  up  our  support  to  South-
South  cooperation,  both  on  the  development  side  and 
in support of humanitarian needs. 

India  is  seized  of  the  MDG  challenges  that  lie 
ahead  of  us.  Our  commitment  remains  resolute.  Our 
national goal of inclusive growth and the larger idea of 
a more humane and just global society that underlines 
the Millennium Declaration will continue to inspire us 
to work untiringly to achieve the MDGs by 2015. 

In  the  final  march  towards  the  attainment  of  the 
MDGs,  let  us  be  inspired  by  the  belief  of  Mahatma 
Gandhi 
limitless  potential  of  human 
achievement. He said that “a small body of determined 
spirits  fired  by  an  unquenchable  faith  in  their  mission 
the 
in 
10-54527 

21 

A/65/PV.9 

can  alter  the  course  of  history”.  That  should  be  the 
driving force for nations around the world. To that we 
dedicate ourselves. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I 

now give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Xavier Espot 
Miró,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Institutional 
Relations of the Principality of Andorra. 
Mr.  Espot  Miró  (Andorra)  (spoke  in  Catalan; 

French text provided by the delegation): We are here in 
New  York  today  in  the  same  Hall  where  we  met 
10 years  ago,  when  all  Member  States  made  promises 
in  the  form  of  concrete  goals  to  combat  poverty  and 
work on behalf of the world’s most vulnerable people. 
At that time, we spoke of global solidarity rising above 
national  interests.  We  also  spoke  of  fair  globalization 
as a cornerstone for peace and security.  

Today  we  face  promises  that  may  not  be  able  to 
be  met.  If  we  are  optimistic,  we  may  note  some 
progress, even if it has been unequal. People who have 
fallen  victim  to  violent  conflict  and  those  most 
vulnerable 
to  natural  disasters  have  once  again 
remained on the sidelines of development. World Bank 
statistics  show  that  in  recent  years  the  number  of 
people  in  extreme  poverty  has  fallen  by  28  per  cent. 
That decrease was concentrated mainly in Eastern Asia, 
while  the  regions  of  Western  Asia  and  sub-Saharan 
Africa saw movement in the opposite direction.  

The  situation  is  critical  when  we  talk  about 
hunger and malnutrition. We must not forget today that 
billions of people are victims of hunger — an alarming 
figure.  The  current  financial  crisis  has  only  served  to 
exacerbate  the  situation,  in  particular  in  sub-Saharan 
Africa, where salaries have fallen and prices for staples 
continue to rise.  

In  the  area  of  education,  the  2010  Education  for 
All Global Monitoring Report, published by UNESCO, 
reveals  that  much  headway  has  been  made  in  the  past 
10  years.  Nonetheless,  there  are  still  72  million 
children in the world who do not receive schooling. 

With  regard  to  gender  equality,  we  welcome  the 
creation  of  the  United  Nations  Entity  for  Gender 
Equality  and 
the  Empowerment  of  Women  (UN 
Women). I hope that this new tool will make it possible 
to  improve  women’s  participation  in  the  political  and 
economic spheres. 
In the area of health, we have not yet resolved the 

problem of the HIV/AIDS epidemic. At the same time, 
22 

80  per  cent  of  diseases  are  the  result  of  pollution  and 
shortages  of  water.  Every  day,  more  than  5,000 
children under the  age of five die due to water that is 
not  safe  to  drink.  The  right  to  drinking  water  is  a 
fundamental  right.  We  hope  that,  in  line  with  the 
fundamental  right  to  water  and  sanitation,  we  will  be 
able  to  step  up  efforts  to  guarantee  better  access  to 
drinking water. 

We have indeed made progress, but the results are 
relative  and  still  fall  far  short  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. Moreover, collective security, the 
fight against terrorism, financial stability and the issue 
of  commodity  prices  can  be  added  to  the  list  of 
objectives.  We  all  recognize  that,  year  after  year,  we 
are becoming increasingly dependent upon each other. 
We  know  that  shared  prosperity  translates  into  shared 
security.  Why  is  it  so  difficult  to  make  available  the 
resources required to achieve the Goals?  

In  Andorra,  the  achievement  of  the  MDGs  is 
endorsed and respected by the entire society. Moreover, 
we  engage  in  cooperation  so  that  the  Goals  can  be 
achieved throughout the world, while at the same time 
taking  into  account  the  situation  of  our  own  country. 
Our  Development  Cooperation  Service,  which  I  have 
the honour to lead, was established in 2001. Today, the 
Ministry for Foreign Affairs and Institutional Relations 
allocates  23  per  cent  of  its  financial  resources  to 
development  cooperation.  Andorra’s  development  aid 
plan,  which  governs  our  cooperation, 
into 
account the Millennium Development Goals, which are 
included as priority areas for our cooperation. Andorra 
promotes  solidarity  among  human  beings  at  both  the 
community  and  the  Government  levels.  Andorran 
associations  are  also  making  their  contribution  to 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals. 

We  have  entered  the  home  stretch  of  a  race  that 
will conclude in five years. We face difficulties that are 
more serious than expected. The efforts we have made 
to  date  have  not  been  sufficient. The  word  “crisis”  in 
Chinese  is  made  up  of  two  characters.  One  means 
danger and the other means opportunity.  

We must try to get back on track. This requires all 
States  to  be  able  to  carry  out  their  own  development 
policies adapted to their needs. Accordingly, the role of 
the United Nations and all of its specialized agencies is 
crucial. 
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  express  my 

Government’s support for the draft outcome document 
takes 
10-54527 



of  this  Meeting  (A/65/L.1). We  hope  that  each  one  of 
us will find the ways and means to achieve a multiplier 
effect and reverse the current trends. We are convinced 
that we can make the most of this. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I 

now  give  the  floor  to  the  His  Excellency  Mr.  Hugo 
Roger Martínez Bonilla, Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
the Republic of El Salvador. 
Mr.  Martínez  Bonilla  (El  Salvador)  (spoke  in 

Spanish):  In  fulfilment  of  the  commitments  entered 
into  with  respect  to  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs),  it  is  a  priority  for  El  Salvador  to 
comply with the Goals’ indicators. 

We know that it is possible to achieve the Goals 
if  they  are  fully  addressed  through  public  economic 
and  social  policies  that  promote  the  inclusion  in  the 
development  process  of  all  citizens  as  their  advocates 
and  beneficiaries,  especially 
the  more  vulnerable 
sectors.  

In  this  regard,  the  model  of  economic  growth 
with social inclusion which President Carlos Mauricio 
Funes  Cartagena  has  launched  emphasizes,  among 
other  things,  the  strengthening  of  personal  and  social 
capacities, access to basic public goods, the rebuilding 
of  the  social  fabric  and  the  creation  of  employment 
opportunities.  

The  elimination  of  poverty  and  hunger,  the 
achievement  of  universal  primary  education  and  the 
improvement  of the health  of the population are some 
of the key elements in the national five-year plan that 
we  are  promoting 
in  El  Salvador.  Furthermore, 
President  Funes  has  proposed  that  these  development 
initiatives  be  taken  to  a  regional  level  in  Central 
America  through  a  social  compact  which  will  make  it 
possible  to  improve  the  standard  of  living  and  the 
development of our peoples and to turn us into a more 
prosperous  and  inclusive  region  in  the  concert  of 
nations. 

We  are  pleased  with  the  recognition  made  by 
President  Obama  of  the  efforts  being  made  by  El 
Salvador and other countries in striving to achieve the 
MDGs.  Efforts  aimed  at  eradicating  poverty  mainly 
require  investments  in  basic  education,  sanitation,  the 
supply of drinking water,  decent housing, food supply 
and  adequate  infrastructure  for  a  population  that  is 
rapidly  growing.  We  also  want  to  create  jobs  for  the 
growing  number  of  young  people  joining  the  labour 
A/65/PV.9
temporary 
income 
support; 
the  coverage  of 
force at a time when unemployment becomes a threat, 
especially in urban areas.  

Even  though  this  was  an  extraordinary  year, 
given the global economic crisis, the problems in terms 
of  security  and  the  high  exposure  to  natural  disasters, 
we  were  able,  through  measures  implemented  during 
this  period,  to  make  some  considerable  gains,  which 
deserve  mention.  For  example,  I  would  underline  the 
launching  of  a  real  estate  guarantee  fund;  agricultural 
kits  for  small  producers;  delivery  of  land  titles;  a 
programme  of 
the 
implementation  of  a  rural  communities  solidarity 
programme,  which  has  reached  100  extremely  poor 
municipalities  and  delivered  health  and  education 
vouchers  to  106,000  families;  the  issuing  of  universal 
basic  pensions,  starting  in  November  2009,  to  7,000 
adults over 70 years old in 32 municipalities suffering 
severe  extreme  poverty.  These  actions  are  all  steps 
taken in support of MDG 1.   
With  respect  to  MDG  2,  we  can  mention  the 

expansion  of 
the  school  food 
programme,  which serves on the national level almost 
5,000 schools and which benefits more than 1,330,000 
students.  

the 
issuance  of  unemployment  certificates,  beginning  in 
February  2010,  which  guarantee  workers  who  have 
been laid off six months of health care services and the 
regional  provision  of  essential  medicines  to  health 
units. Similarly, the elimination of the fee required for 
access  to  the  public  health  system  contributed  to  a 
40 per cent increase in the demand for health services. 

The  Government  of  El  Salvador  has  been 
developing  a  thorough  reform  of  its  health  system 
which  during  decades  had  been  abandoned.  This 
reform is motivated by the recognition that health is a 
public good and a fundamental human right, which the 
State must therefore guarantee to all its population. We 
will  continue  to  create  spaces  for  the  active  social 
participation  of  all  sectors,  particularly  those  which 
have been traditionally excluded. This step, which was 
announced  this  week  by  President  Funes,  will  take 
health  to  the  homes  of  Salvadorans  and  will  open  up 
job opportunities for 14,000 health professionals. 

Another  of  the  most  relevant  examples  of  this 
inclusive policy which takes human rights into account 
is the national response to the HIV/AIDS epidemic led 
by  the  Government  of  El  Salvador,  with  the  decisive 
to  other  MDGs,  we  note 
With  respect 
10-54527 

23 

and  other 
technical 
and 
in 
the  MDGs.  In 
this  framework, 
treatment  of  sexually 
A/65/PV.9 

support  of  the  Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on 
HIV/AIDS 
financial 
cooperation agencies, in order to work on the country’s 
policy  in  the  promotion,  prevention,  early  detection, 
follow-up  and 
transmitted 
infections  and  diseases  as  well  as  of  HIV/AIDS.  The 
Government  has  thus  committed  itself  to  undertaking 
relevant  measures  and  actions  to  achieve  the  targets 
proposed 
the 
awareness of the population concerning a reduction in 
stigma and discrimination, the reduction of mother-to-
child  transmission,  the  free  and  mass  HIV  testing  and 
access  to  antiretroviral  therapy,  also  free  of  cost,  by 
persons  who  need  it  are  placing  the  country  on  the 
right path to achieve MDG 6. 
In emphasizing these results, I would like to say 

that experience shows us that in order for these policies 
to be effective, they must include a gender perspective 
as  well  as  one  of  social  inclusion  while  making 
deliberate  efforts  to  offer  incentives  to  civil  society 
institutions  to  participate  with  the  strategies  that 
address the basic needs of the population.  
To  this  end,  we  promote  the  participation  of  the 

and 
young 
other 
non-governmental 
stakeholders, 
the  delivery  of  promotion  and 
in 
prevention  programmes  to  reduce  health  risks,  to 
prevent dropping out of school, to expand the coverage 
of services, and to contribute to the prevention of harm 
or risky behaviour. 

Another  measure  was  the  devising  of  social 
programmes  as  part  of  a  universal  protection  system, 
which  gave  rise  to  policies  that  promoted  broad 
coverage 
example,  we 
eliminated voluntary quotas in hospitals and started the 
mass  distribution  of  free  medicines  as  part  of  the 
national  health  system.  In  the  area  of  preventive 
medicine, the Government trebled the use of vaccines. 
We  also  doubled  the  investment  in  vaccines  by 
introducing  the  pneumonia  vaccine.  Similarly,  during 
President Funes’s administration we will have brought 
into  the  health  system  thousands  of  women  employed 
as  domestic  workers,  who  are  mostly  single  mothers 
and heads of household.  
the  Government 

implemented 
the  most  ambitious  programme  of 
assistance  to  low-income  families  ever  carried  out  in 
El Salvador.  The  school  kit  includes  uniforms,  shoes 
the  area  of  education, 
inclusiveness.  For 
schools 
among 
organizations, 
communities, 
population, 
and 
In 
than  40,000  artisans, 
in  exchange  for  which 
and  school  supplies  for  students  attending  public 
school. This major programme was designed so as  not 
only to assist families but also to promote employment. 
More 
family  businesses, 
microenterprises  and  cooperatives  participated  in  the 
sewing  of  uniforms  and  the  manufacture  of  shoes  as 
well as distributing raw materials and products. 

To  strengthen  aid  to  the  neediest  areas  of  the 
country,  we  extended  the  solidarity  initiative  for  rural 
communities  to  cover  the  100  poorest  municipalities. 
Moreover, in the 32 poorest municipalities in the rural 
zones,  we  initiated  the  universal  basic  pension  for 
persons over  70 years of age without means, who had 
never before received Government help. 

Given  the  threat  of  the  exponential  growth  of 
urban poverty as a result of the global financial crisis, 
urban  solidarity  communities  were  created,  which 
included  two  pilot  programmes.  One  is  the  temporary 
income aid programme, which consists of a stipend of 
$100  per  month  for  unemployed  youth  and  women 
heads  of  household, 
the 
recipients  offer  four  days  of  productive  community 
work and attend a day of job training.  Four 
hundred 
twenty  thousand  agricultural  kits,  with  seeds  and 
fertilizer,  have  been  distributed 
rural 
producers who cultivate up to 0.7 hectares of land for 
their  own  consumption  to  help  them  with  their  family 
finances. 

While  recognizing  that  each  country  must  take 
responsibility for its own development agenda, we are 
also  convinced  that  —  because  it  is  a  commitment  on 
the part of the international community — all national 
efforts  must  be  supported  and  complemented  by  the 
solidarity  and  cooperation  of 
international 
community. In this context we commend and we share 
the  vision  of  the  Secretary-General,  who  recently 
stated that the priority for  the next  five  years must be 
to increase assistance to projects that can yield the best 
results.  We  therefore  support  the  establishment  and 
maintenance  of  a  global  alliance  for  development  that 
is  united  and  generous  and  takes  into  account  the 
capacities,  resources  and  limitations  —  and  above  all, 
the  commitment  —  of  each  Government  towards 
meeting  the  MDGs  as  criteria  to  support  the  flow  of 
assistance needed to achieve those Goals.  

El  Salvador  shares  the  vision  that  all  Member 
States will attain, through achieving the MDGs, better 
to  small 
the 
24 

10-54527 


standards of living for their peoples, but above all  for 
the most vulnerable groups.  
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I 

now give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Kevin Rudd, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Australia. 
Mr.  Rudd  (Australia):  As  nations  we  have  a 

responsibility to do that which we say we will do — a 
responsibility  to  keep  our  promises  to  fellow  Member 
States  and  a  responsibility  to  turn  our  commitments, 
solemnly given in this great Hall, into concrete actions 
that change the lives of the poorest of the poor across 
the world. A decade ago, we, the nations of the world, 
assembled here to offer the world’s poor a fairer share 
in  the  world’s  future.  A  decade  later  we  gather  once 
again to take stock and to celebrate that which we have 
done, but also honestly to admit where we have failed. 

I want to begin with a story of two children. The 
first  is  about  a  young  girl  I  met  on  Monday,  here  in 
New York.  Her  name  is  Nthabiseng.  She  was  born  in 
Soweto.  Nthabiseng  is  a  beautiful  little  girl  with  the 
brightest of smiles. She is 12 years old. But when she 
was seven, her mother died. Normally, that would have 
consigned her to a life of poverty. But Nthabiseng was 
determined  to  get  an  education.  She  said,  “When 
children  are  stopped  from  going  to  school,  they  are 
losing their future and they are losing their tomorrow.” 
Now  she  is  doing  very  well  in  school  and  has  a  very 
bright  future.  Children  like  Nthabiseng  will  benefit 
from the  United Nations One Goal  programme, which 
seeks to make education a reality for all the children in 
the world, not just some. 

The second story is of a young boy who has never 
been to New York. He too lost his mother — she died 
giving birth to him. His family ekes out a living in the 
slums of one of the world’s developing mega-cities, not 
far  from  the  skyscrapers  of  its  booming  financial 
district.  This  little  boy’s  days  are  spent  not  in  school 
but in the traffic of the city, begging for spare change 
at  car  windows  when  cars  stop  at  the  lights. We  have 
all  seen  him  in  our  travels.  I  have  not  given  him  a 
name. He has thousands of names. And right now, he is 
without hope. 
Why do I tell these stories? Because they are the 

human faces of what happens when the world acts with 
compassion  —  and  when  it  does  not.  The  first  story 
inspires  us  to  further  action. The  second  should  make 
us determined to act for all. 
A/65/PV.9

At  the  turn  of  the  millennium  we,  the  States 
Members of the United Nations, made a compact with 
one another. We said we would put our shoulders to the 
wheel  to  lift  a  billion  people  out  of  poverty. And  we 
said  we  should  be  measured  by  these  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) in 2015: to halve poverty 
and hunger, to give every girl and boy the chance of a 
good  education,  to  make  big  cuts  in  the  number  of 
women  dying  in  childbirth  and  children  dying  from 
easily preventable diseases, to promote gender equality 
and empower women, to combat HIV/AIDS, to ensure 
sustainability  and 
global 
to  develop  a  global 
partnership for development. 

Ten  years  on,  it  is  time  to  reflect  on  the  report 
card  of  our  progress.  The  truth  is  we  are  not  yet  on 
track  to  register  even  the  barest  of  passing  marks. 
Successes  in  some  areas  —  poverty  reduction  and 
school  enrolment  —  must  be  weighed  against  failures 
in  other  areas,  including  maternal  health  and  child 
nutrition. 

Our failures have attracted vocal critics — those 
who say that international aid does not work, that it is 
wasted  that  it  is  poorly  managed,  that  there  is  just  no 
point. This is not Australia’s view. Our view is that the 
richest among us have a profound responsibility to help 
the  poorest  members  of  the  human  family  out  of 
poverty. 
is 
dehumanizing. Poverty destroys human dignity. 

As  the  Secretary-General  reminded  us  in  his 
report  “Keeping  the  promise”  (A/64/665),  the  MDGs 
are  an  expression  of  basic  human  rights,  the  rights  of 
everyone  to  good  health,  education  and  shelter.  I 
believe that these truths are in fact self-evident. But for 
those who doubt that there is any self-evident truth in 
this  concept  of  social  justice  we  should  consider  the 
following.  

Eliminating  extreme  poverty  boosts  global 
growth for all. It grows the global cake. It grows trade 
and  investment.  It  grows  jobs.  It  acts  against  political 
and  religious  extremism  and  radicalization.  It  builds 
peace. It enhances stability. And it reduces dangerous, 
irregular  movements  of  people  around  the  world.  In 
other  words,  eliminating  extreme  poverty  is  good  for 
the entire human family, and it is good for all nations. 

As  members  of  the  family  of  nations,  we  cannot 
stand  idly  by  while  70  million  children  are  unable  to 
attend school. We cannot stand idly by when hundreds 
of  thousands  of  women  die  in  childbirth  —  an 
degrading. 
Poverty 
Poverty 
is 
10-54527 

25 
that 
idly  by  while 
the  global  economic  environment 
A/65/PV.9 

estimated 358,000 in the year before last. Nor can  we 
stand 
infectious  diseases  cut  a 
devastating swath through the communities of the poor. 
The  chilling  fact  is  that  more  than  half  of  the  800 
million  people  in  the  least  developed  countries  of  the 
world are still living in extreme poverty. 

Let  us  be  honest.  Donor  countries  have  made 
commitments 
they  have  not  honoured.  For 
example,  less  than  half  of  the  funding  pledged  to 
Africa  five  years  ago  in  the  Gleneagles  declaration  of 
the  Group  of  Eight  has  been  delivered. The  answer  is 
not  to  push  our  commitments  even  further  into  the 
future, nor is it simply to sweep it all quietly under the 
international carpet. The answer is to do that which we 
say that we will do: to honour our commitments, even 
when 
is  hard, 
because  for  the  poorest  of  the  poor,  it  is  even  harder. 
This is what Australia seeks to do. 

Several years ago, halfway to the 2015 deadline, 
we in Australia saw that our efforts were not sufficient. 
We realized that we had to do much more. By 2015, on 
current projections, our aid budget will double, just as 
it  doubled  between  2005  and  2010.  That  will  make 
Australia  the  fastest-growing  donor  country  in  the 
Organization 
and 
Development.  We  have  maintained  our  commitment, 
including a 200 per cent increase in aid to Africa alone, 
despite the impacts of the financial crisis. 

The  Australian  Government,  under  Prime 
Minister Gillard, puts the MDGs at the heart of our aid 
programme, and, as Australia’s aid programme doubles 
over  the  next  five  years,  we  will  increase  our  support 
to the least developed countries through the MDGs. 

Today I am committing Australia to work towards 
providing 0.15 per cent of our gross national income in 
aid  to  the  least  developed  countries,  in  line  with 
international 
targets.  Across  our  entire  overseas 
development  assistance  programme,  Australia  expects 
between  now  and  2015  to  allocate  A$5  billion  to 
education,  A$1.6  billion  to  women’s  and  children’s 
health, A$1.8 billion to food security, and A$1.2 billion 
to  action  on  climate-change  adaptation  and  mitigation 
in  developing  countries,  including  the  39  small  island 
developing States that are the most exposed to, but the 
least responsible for, that great threat to our planet — 
climate change. 
Australia will also work to open world markets to 

least  developed  countries  in  order  to  enable  private 
for  Economic  Cooperation 

through 
commerce,  trade  and  investment  to  help  lift  these 
countries  out  of  poverty. All  that  is  made  possible  by 
necessary  governance  measures  to  provide  transparency 
and  accountability.  Those  elements  are  the  necessary 
stepping stones to development. 

I  began  with  a  story  of  two  children,  one  with 
opportunities  and  one  without.  The  Australian  people 
by  instinct  want  to  see  that  all  the  little  ones  of  the 
world  are  given  a  fair  go.  Through  their  generous 
private  donations  and 
the  official  aid 
programme  paid  for  by  taxes,  Australians  want  to 
provide opportunities for all the peoples of the world to 
live  a  decent 
life.  Australian  non-governmental 
organizations  (NGOs)  are  active  across  the  world  — 
NGOs 
including  World  Vision,  Oxfam,  Caritas, 
ChildFund,  Plan  International,  the  Red  Cross  and  the 
Oaktree Foundation. 

Let me conclude by quoting a third child — this 
time a young Australian, a 10-year-old girl who wrote 
to me with the following: 


“I  think  kids  in  other  countries  have  the 
same rights as kids here — yes, that’s right. Kids 
everywhere  should  have  the  same  things  we 
have —  like  good  teachers,  doctors,  houses  and 
clean water.” 

The  Governments  of  the  world  cannot  let  down 
the  children  of  the  world.  If  we  want  to  reform  this 
great 
this 
parliament of humankind — we should not begin with 
another  grand  plan. We  should  simply  begin  by  doing 
that which we say we will do. We in Australia want to 
do just that. We want to play our part in bringing these 
Millennium Development Goals into reality, to make a 
fundamental  difference  to  the  world’s  poor,  and  to 
make  a  fundamental  difference  to  the  future  of  all 
humankind. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I 

now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mourad 
Medelci,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  People’s 
Democratic Republic of Algeria. 
Mr.  Medelci  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Our 

meeting  today  is  an  excellent  opportunity  to  evaluate 
the  efforts  to  implement  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs). At the same time, it allows us to  note 
the  obstacles  that  hamper  their  achievement,  to  learn 
lessons and to renew commitments as part of our future 
work. 
these  United  Nations, 
institution  — 
26 

10-54527 
that  have  made  considerable  efforts 
the  main  MDG  and  broadly  determines 



Today, although we can express satisfaction at the 
progress  made  by  some  countries  in  the  five  years 
since the first evaluation meeting and five years before 
the  2015  deadline,  we  must  also  note  that  many 
countries  are  not  going  to  achieve  the  Goals.  Further 
complicating  matters  is  the  slowdown  resulting  from 
the  food,  climate  and  economic  crises  from  which 
African  countries,  in  particular,  have  suffered  — 
countries 
to 
implement the MDGs.  

It is therefore not surprising that the most recent 
African  Union  Summit,  in  Kampala,  focused  its  work 
on  the  MDGs,  especially  maternal  and  child  health. 
Nonetheless,  the  people  of  Africa  are  responsible  for 
their  own  development,  as  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development  has  affirmed.  However,  that 
responsibility should be shared with  and supported by 
the international community. 

In that context, all considerations concerning our 
future  actions  should,  in  my  view,  keep  in  mind  two 
key points. First, the eradication of poverty and hunger 
is 
the 
implementation of the rest of the Goals, and secondly, 
the crucial need to overcome poverty and hunger in the 
world  puts  the  mobilization  of  resources,  particularly 
financial  resources,  at the core of any action aimed  at 
implementing the MDGs.  

These  key  points  have  led  me  to  propose  the 
following ideas for our action in future, as part of the 
efforts  to  improve  the  performance  of  developing 
countries in achieving the MDGs. 
First, the flow of official development assistance 

(ODA)  must  double 
line  with 
international commitments, particularly those made by 
the  Group  of  Eight.  For  many  countries  ODA  plays  a 
key  role  in  poverty  reduction.  Secondly,  we  need  to 
move 
for  struggling 
developing  countries  in  order  to  complement  those 
multilateral and bilateral initiatives already adopted to 
cancel or mitigate the debt burden for the poorest and 
least  developed 
should 
encourage  industrialized  countries  to  increase  their 
foreign direct investment in the poorest countries. And 
fourthly,  we  should  improve  access  to  developed 
countries’ markets for developing countries’ exports. 
As  far  as  Algeria  is  concerned,  we  are  firmly 

the  MDGs  by  putting 
committed 
economic  and  social  development  at  the  heart  of  the 
towards  a  delay  on  debt 
countries.  Thirdly,  we 
to  achieving 
to  bring 
into 
it 
A/65/PV.9
for 
(spoke 
new  investment  programme  for  2010  to  2014.  Today, 
we  can  state  that  my  country  —  which  has  just 
presented 
its  second  national  report  on  progress 
towards  implementing  the  MDGs  —  has  already 
achieved  several  Goals,  particularly  in  the  areas  of 
fighting  poverty  and  of  education.  That  is  why  our 
poverty  levels  have  dropped,  from  7.1  per  cent  in  the 
1990s  to  5  per  cent  in  2009,  and  why  more  than  a 
million  housing  units  were  built  during  the  five-year 
period from 2005 to 2009, in large part to help abolish 
substandard  housing.  In  the  area  of  education,  the 
school  enrolment  rate  for  six-year-olds  has  risen  from 
93 per cent in 1999 to 96.97 per cent in 2009. 

The challenges we face today demand that we all 
increase our efforts to do better, and faster. More than 
ever, that requires of us self-reliance through solidarity, 
through  developing  everybody’s  capacities,  and 
through  partnership 
the  poorest  and  most 
underprivileged. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I 

now  give  the  floor  to  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Márcia 
Helena  Carvalho  Lopes,  Minister 
for  Social 
Development  and  the  Fight  Against  Hunger  of  the 
Federative Republic of Brazil. 
in  Portuguese; 

English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  an 
honour to represent President Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva 
at this meeting of great global interest. After seven and 
a half years of President Lula’s Government, Brazil has 
consolidated  a  model  for  fairer  and  more  equitable 
economic  growth,  with  social  participation  and 
inclusion.  We  are  thus  repaying  our  immense  debt  to 
the Brazilian people and achieving excellent results in 
seeking  to  meet  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). 

In  spite  of  the  sectorial  advances  in  some 
countries,  it  seems  clear  that  if  the  current  trends  are 
maintained, we will not achieve all the MDGs by 2015. 
It  is  up  to  this  meeting,  therefore,  to  identify  the 
necessary  and  urgent  strategies 
the 
international  community’s  efforts  to  meet  the  Goals. 
However, Brazil considers that meeting the MDGs will 
not  be  possible  without  the  allocation  of  significant 
additional 
stable  and 
predictable  manner,  particularly 
the  poorest 
countries. 
the 

established  agreements  to  promote  development,  in 
Few  developed  countries  have  fulfilled 
to  accelerate 
Ms.  Lopes
in  a 
to 
resources 
financial 
(Brazil) 
10-54527 

27 
It 
that 
is  our  understanding 
A/65/PV.9 

particular their commitment to allocate 0.7 per cent of 
their  gross  national  income  to  official  development 
assistance.  Brazil  firmly  believes  that  all  countries 
must fulfil their international obligations.  

international 
cooperation  must  be  accompanied  by  substantive 
reform of the international economic system, including 
in  the  area  of  governance.  We  also  consider  it 
necessary  to  overcome  the  obstacles  presented  by 
agricultural subsidies and tariffs, restrictive patents and 
unsustainable debt. 

Brazil’s progress is the result of a combination of 
structured,  nationwide  social  policies  that  enjoy  the 
active  participation  of  civil  society.  We  set  a  goal  for 
ourselves, more ambitious than the Goal established in 
2000,  to  eradicate  hunger  and  to  reduce  extreme 
poverty  by  three  fourths  by  2015.  That  goal  was 
reached  in  2007  and  surpassed  in  2008,  when  the 
percentage of the population living in extreme poverty 
dropped  to  4.8  per  cent  —  less  than  one  fifth  of  the 
1990  level  of  25.6  per  cent.  In  2008,  we  also  reduced 
our  country’s  historical  inequality,  with  Brazil’s  Gini 
index reached 0.544, its lowest level ever. 

The Lula Government put in place a wide-ranging 
social protection system that reaches 70 million people 
every  month.  The  Family  Stipend  programme  today 
benefits  12.6  million  families,  guaranteeing  income 
upon their meeting conditions in the areas of education, 
maternal  and  child  health,  and  avoidance  of  child 
labour. 
the  Unified  Social 

Assistance  System  and  the  National  System  of  Food 
and Nutritional Security. The minimum wage has been 
significantly 
income  of 
workers,  retirees  and  pensioners.  The  internal  market 
income-
was  expanded 
generating 
recent 
international financial crisis. The promotion of policies 
aimed  at  ensuring  decent  work  for  all  and  racial 
equality have also been priority issues. 

With regard to education, 95 per cent of Brazilian 
children  are  in  school,  and  the  conditions  attached  to 
the  Family  Stipend  have  increased  the  time  that  they 
remain  there.  In  terms  of  gender  equality  and  the 
empowerment  of  women,  the  indicators  for  education 
are positive. In the labour force, the wage gap between 
men  and  women  has  been  shrinking  in  the  last  five 
years. However, high levels of violence against women 
through  employment  and 
the 
implementing 
improving 
increased, 
We  are 
the 
policies, 
even 
during 

continue to pose a challenge. In light of that, Brazil is 
fully committed to the Unite to End of Violence against 
Women campaign. 

Brazil has constantly improved the largest unified 
universal and free public health system, the “SUS”. We 
will have the opportunity to share our experiences with 
other  countries  in  two  international  conferences  that 
Brazil  will  host:  the  first,  this  coming  December,  on 
universal  social  security  systems,  and  the  second,  in 
October of 2011, on the social determinants of health. 
An important result in the area of health has been 

the  58  per  cent  decrease  in  the  mortality  rate  of 
children under the age of five, meeting the Goal before 
the deadline. Addressing maternal mortality is a major 
challenge  for  the  Brazilian  Government.  In  spite  of  a 
decrease  since  1990,  it  is  still  high  in  Brazil,  thus 
requiring more targeted policies. 

Over  the  past  few  years,  there  has  been  a 
decrease in Brazil in the incidence of tuberculosis and 
of  deaths  resulting  from  that  disease,  as  well  as  a 
decrease  in  the  incidence  of  malaria  in  the  Amazon 
region.  The  Brazilian  Government,  with 
the 
participation  of  civil  society,  implements  free  and 
universal  programmes  of  information  dissemination 
regarding  HIV/AIDS. 
preventive 
materials and ensures access to anti-retroviral drugs to 
around 220,000 people. The incidence of HIV/AIDS in 
children  has  fallen  drastically  as  a  result  of  actions 
adopted  in  Brazil  to  reduce  vertical  transmission  of 
HIV. 
reduced 

deforestation  levels  in  the  Amazon  and  established  a 
system  to  monitor  the  deforestation  in  the  cerrado  — 
the  Brazilian  savanna.  Forty-five  per  cent  of  our 
internal energy supply comes from renewable sources. 
Our  levels  of  carbon  dioxide  emissions  originating 
from fossil fuels are at half the global average. 

Brazil  has  achieved  its  goal  of  halving  the 
proportion  of  the  population  without  access  to  safe 
drinking water in urban areas. Sixty-six per cent of this 
population  today  has  adequate  living  conditions,  as 
opposed to 51 per cent in 1992. 
Brazil  is  increasingly  contributing  to  the  global 

partnership 
successful 
experiences  and  deepening  cooperation  through  a 
South-South  perspective.  Between 2003 and 2009, the 
Brazilian Government concluded over 400 cooperation 
Regarding  MDG  7,  Brazil  has 
for  development, 
distributes 
sharing 
It 
28 

10-54527 


agreements  with  other  developing  countries.  We 
granted $1.25 billion in debt relief to those countries. 

Since  the  launch  of  the  global  Action  against 
Hunger  and  Poverty  and  the  creation  of  the  pilot, 
Brazil has actively participated in innovative financing 
mechanisms,  including  through  significant  financial 
contributions. 

No country should be allowed to fall short of the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  because  of  lack  of 
financial  resources. Any  country’s  inability  to  achieve 
its  national  goals  is  also  our  responsibility.  There  are 
many  challenges  still  ahead  of  us,  but  Brazil  remains 
committed  to  promoting  the  achievement  of  all  the 
MDGs and to ensuring a more just world for all women 
and men. We can all do better. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by 
Mr. Muhammad Mumuni,  Minister  for  Foreign Affairs 
and Regional Integration of the Republic of Ghana. 
Mr. Mumuni (Ghana): At the turn of the century, 

in  September  2000,  Ghana,  along  with  189  Member 
States  of 
the 
Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2)  that  laid  out 
the vision for a world of common values and renewed 
determination  to  achieve  peace  and  a  decent  standard 
of  living  for  every  man,  woman  and  child.  The  eight 
goals  that  emanated  from  the  Millennium  Declaration 
were  expected 
to  generate  unprecedented  and 
coordinated  action  within  the  United  Nations  system, 
including  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions,  and  within 
the wider donor community. 

Ghana  has  since  mainstreamed  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  into  its  medium-term 
development  policy  frameworks:  the  Ghana  Poverty 
Reduction  Strategy  I,  2003-2005,  and  the  Growth  and 
Poverty  Reduction  Strategy  II,  2006-2009.  The  two 
focused  on  macroeconomic 
policy 
stability,  gainful 
resource 
development,  the  provision  of  basic  services,  the 
vulnerable and the excluded. Other areas included good 
governance, 
stability, 
private sector competitiveness and civic responsibility. 

Ghana’s development agenda has been focused on 
growth  and  poverty  reduction,  with  the  MDGs  being 
adopted  as  the  minimum  requirements  for  socio-
economic  development.  It  was  estimated  that  the  total 
resources needed to implement the Growth and Poverty 
this  august  Organization,  adopted 
continued  macroeconomic 
employment,  human 
frameworks 
A/65/PV.9
shocks  arising 
low  productivity 
rise,  droughts  and 
Reduction  Strategy  II  over  the  period  2006-2009  was 
$8.06  billion,  with  considerable  proportions  of  these 
funds  allocated  towards  the  implementation  of  MDG-
related programmes and projects. 

Achieving the MDGs is no mean task. For Ghana, 
halving the proportion of people below the poverty line 
alone will require an annual investment expenditure of 
approximately $1.9 billion over the period 2005-2015. 
In  addition,  the  country  also  needs  to  address  critical 
infrastructure  gaps,  especially  in  energy,  information 
and communications technology, rural roads, water and 
sanitation, 
in  agriculture,  and 
improving business and investment climate. 

Although poverty levels have declined, inequality 
exists  between  and  within  regions  and  districts, 
together  with  other  challenges.  The  country  continues 
to depend on primary commodity exports such as cocoa 
and gold with limited diversification or processing, and 
now  there  is  concern  that  the  discovery  of  oil  may 
aggravate  the  situation.  Ghana  is  also  vulnerable  to 
external 
from  commodity  price 
volatility,  as  well  as  challenges  posed  by  climate 
change  manifested  through  high  temperatures,  sea-
level 
floods,  which  affect 
agricultural output with repercussions for other sectors 
of the economy. 

Despite  these  constraints,  Ghana  continues  to 
strive  towards  achieving  the  MDGs.  Ghana’s  current 
socio-economic  development  agenda 
to  attain 
middle-income  status  by  2020  within  a  decentralized 
democratic  environment.  This 
is  being  pursued 
simultaneously with the adoption of a social protection 
policy  aimed  at  empowering  the  vulnerable  and  the 
excluded,  especially  women,  to  contribute  to  and  also 
share 
the  benefits  of  economic  growth.  To 
underscore  Ghana’s  commitment  to  the  attainment  of 
the MDGs, the 2010-2013 Medium Term Development 
Policy Framework — the successor to the Growth and 
Poverty Reduction Strategy II — has  also harmonized 
national development priorities with the MDGs. 
The  Government  continues  to  work  aggressively 

towards 
improving  and  sustaining  macroeconomic 
stability,  enhancing  the  nation’s  competitiveness  in 
industry and service sectors, and achieving agricultural 
modernization,  infrastructural  transformation,  human 
resources 
and 
accountability.  The  Parliament  of  Ghana  also  does  its 
bit through its Committee on Poverty and the MDGs by 
development 
and 
transparency 
is 
in 
10-54527 

29 

A/65/PV.9 

sensitizing  ministries,  departments  and  agencies  to 
make  provision  in  their  budget  proposals  to  support 
MDG and other pro-poor programmes. 

We are approximately four and a half years from 
the  2015  target  date  for  achieving  the  MDGs,  and 
Ghana’s progress is encouraging. According to a report 
released  by 
the  British  Overseas  Development 
Institute,  an  international  think  tank,  Ghana  is  firmly 
on track to achieve MDG 1, halving poverty, MDG 2, 
achieving universal basic education, and part of MDG 
3,  ensuring  gender  parity  especially  at  the  primary 
school  level,  before  the  target  date  2015.  The  report 
further  states  that  “Ghana  outperformed  all  other 
countries  around  the  world  by  reducing  hunger  across 
its  population  by  nearly  three-quarters,  from  34  per 
cent to 9 per cent between 1990 and 2004. The report 
points  out  that  Ghana  is  on  course  to  be  the  first 
African  country  to  achieve  MDG  1,  halving  poverty 
and hunger by 2015. 

Significant  progress  has  been  made  towards 
achieving the MDG 4 target, reducing both infant  and 
under-five mortality rates by two thirds by 2015, and it 
is possible for Ghana to achieve that target if we scale 
up  efforts  and  sustain  the  child  survival  interventions 
which brought about the current improvement. Despite 
heightened  efforts  over 
the  maternal 
mortality  rate  is  still  unacceptably  high,  currently 
standing  at  451  deaths  per  100,000  live  births,  which 
means  that  Ghana  is  unlikely  to  attain  the  target  of 
reducing the maternal mortality ratio by three quarters 
by 2015, despite improvements in maternal health care 
over the past 20 years. 

is  covered  by 
MDG 6,  in  Ghana  fell  from  3.2  per  cent  in  2006  to 
2.2 per cent in 2008 but the challenge to meet the 2015 
target  of  halting  and  reversing  the  spread  of  the 
epidemic remains daunting though not insurmountable. 
A  great  deal  needs  to  be  done  in  terms  of  educational 
campaigns  and  other  HIV/AIDS  programmes 
to 
promote significant behavioural change. 

The incidence of malaria remains a serious public 
health concern. It is still considered a leading cause of 
mortality  and  morbidity  particularly  among  pregnant 
women and children aged under five. 

Ghana  is  also  on  track  to  achieve  the  MDG  7 
target  of  reducing  by  half  the  proportion  of  people 
without  access 
improved  water  before  2015. 
However,  critical  challenges  exist  in  providing  access 
HIV/AIDS  prevalence,  which 
the  years, 
to 
school 
and 
improves 
30 

10-54527 
the 
to  improved  sanitation  and  reducing  the  proportion  of 
the  urban  population  living  in  slum  areas.  Although 
access  to  improved  sanitation  has  been  increasing, 
Ghana  is  unlikely  to  achieve  the  targets  unless  extra 
effort  is  made  to  accelerate  the  pace  of  policy 
implementation. 

With respect to MDG 8, what is of essence is the 
political  will  to  fulfil  pledges  already  made.  The 
success  stories  in  a  number  of  developing  countries 
show that rapid progress towards achieving the MDGs 
is  still  possible  when  sound  national  development 
policies  are  supported  effectively  by  development 
partners  and 
international  community  with 
adequate  financial  and  technical  assistance.  Existing 
international  commitments  can  extend  these  success 
stories  and  facilitate  achievement  of 
the  MDGs. 
Approximately two years ago, it was said that meeting 
the MDGs, especially reducing poverty by one half by 
2015, would require raising the annual flow of official 
development  assistance  to  poor  countries  by  at  least 
$50  or  $60  billion  above  the  prevailing  level.  We  are 
mindful of the adverse consequences unleashed by the 
global  financial,  oil  and  food  crises  on  major 
economies,  but  $60  billion  is  a  sum  that  definitely 
pales  by  comparison  with  the  domestic  bailouts  and 
other  response  measures  adopted  by  the  advanced 
economies in the wake of the crises at home. 
This notwithstanding, the supportive environment 

for achieving the MDGs remains strong in Ghana, and 
I  believe  this  is  also  true  in  many  other  developing 
countries.  Besides 
reduction 
expenditures,  the  Government  is  also  implementing 
policies  and  programmes  that  have  high  potential  to 
support  wealth  creation  and  sustainable  poverty 
today,  social 
reduction.  For 
protection  programmes 
the  Livelihood 
Empowerment Against Poverty project, which supports 
extremely  poor  households  with  monthly  cash 
transfers.  The  improved  National  Health  Insurance 
Scheme ensures quality access to health care for all at 
affordable  or  no  cost.  The  enhanced  capitation  grant 
guarantees every child of school-going age the right to 
free basic education. The supply of free exercise books 
and 
to  deprived  communities 
encourages  school  attendance  and  ensures  retention. 
And  the  expansion  of  the  School  Feeding  Programme 
enhances 
the 
nutritional and health status of children. 
in  Ghana 
such  as 
the  direct  poverty 
school  uniforms 
enrolment 
instance, 
this 
on 
summit 


The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I 

now give the floor to His Excellency Mr. João Gomes 
Cravinho,  Secretary  of  State  for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
Cooperation of the Portuguese Republic. 
Mr.  Cravinho  (Portugal):  On  behalf  of  my 

Government, allow me to thank you, Mr. Co-Chair, for 
convening 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  It  is  essential  that  we  seize  this 
moment  to  strengthen  international  cooperation  and 
galvanize  action  towards  the  implementation  of  the 
commitments that we agreed upon ten years ago. 

In  the  aftermath  of  this  High-level  Plenary 
Meeting, Portugal will be hosting a ministerial meeting 
on the mobilization of financial resources for the least 
developed  countries,  in  Lisbon  on  2  and  3  October 
2010. This will be an opportunity to come back to the 
main  issues  of  this  summit,  to  put  at  the  core  of  our 
attention  the  vulnerabilities  and  the  needs  of  the  least 
developed  countries,  and  to  assess  the  best  ways  in 
which we can collectively help to address them.  
We must reinforce the principle of ownership and 

is  primarily 
reaffirm  clearly 
social 
responsible 
for 
development. But at the same time, we  must redouble 
efforts  to  generate  appropriate  international  support 
mechanisms. 
Ten  years  ago,  in  an  atmosphere  of  confidence 

and growth, the common concern for the development 
and  dignity  of  all  peoples  in  the  world  led  to  the 
affirmation  of  a  shared  and  global  commitment,  the 
Millennium  Declaration.  For  the  past  10  years,  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  have 
represented  a  shared  agenda,  involving  the  mutual 
responsibility  and  accountability  of  developed  and 
developing  countries,  guided  in  their  policies  by  their 
commitments  to  the  MDGs.  The  political  and  policy 
relevance  of  this  agenda  is  unquestionable,  and  it  is 
imperative 
reference 
framework,  thus  allowing  for  measuring  and  tracking 
results. 

Where do we stand in 2010? I believe that we can 
refer  both  to  results  and  to  shortcomings.  There  has 
been significant progress by many countries, including 
in Africa,  in  many  areas,  but  much  still  remains  to  be 
done  by  all  parties  if  the  Goals  are  to  be  attained  by 
2015. 
that  each  country 
its  own  economic  and 
the  MDGs 
remain  a 
that 
A/65/PV.9
in 
that 
influencing 

The  world  has  changed  dramatically  since  the 
Millennium Declaration was adopted, and the forces of 
change  have  accelerated  with  the  financial  crisis  that 
we  have  experienced  in  the  past  couple  of  years.  The 
geostrategic balance and the development paradigm are 
now  very  different  from  what  we  faced  10  years  ago 
when we adopted the MDGs. Developed economies are 
struggling  with  growth  and  deficits  while,  all  over, 
emerging  economies  are 
the  world 
economy  and  playing  an  increasing  role  at  the  global 
level.  Clearly,  we  now  live  in  a  multi-polar  world, 
although  our  institutional  frameworks  and  even  our 
language and mindsets still remain to be updated to this 
reality.  

In this new international context, a much greater 
role  must  be  taken  on  by  organizations  of  regional 
integration 
the  emerging  global  governance 
architecture.  These  organizations  constitute  the  best 
framework in which to voice concerns and put forward 
proposals 
reflect  different  experiences  and 
particular  ways  of  facing  the  challenges  ahead  of  us. 
The  complexity  of  the  world  obliges  us  to  test  new 
concepts for action and to take advantage of diversity.  

The  clear  North-South  divide  in  which  the  old 
development paradigm was embedded is now no longer 
so  evident.  The  sooner  we  adapt  to  this  reality,  the 
better  we  will  collectively  manage  the  many  global 
challenges that stand before us. 

In the next five years, we must also address new 
and global challenges, such as the increased impact of 
climate  change,  the  financial  and  economic  crisis  and 
food  security.  New  geopolitical  tensions  in  different 
regions  are  conditioning  the  development  of  hundreds 
of  millions  of  people.  These  have  become  critical  for 
the  MDGs  and  for  the  post-2015  agenda. While  some 
of these challenges call for a longer-term involvement, 
we cannot afford to postpone action. 

First, on climate change: its impacts, particularly 
on  the  most  vulnerable  countries,  such  as  the  least 
developed  countries  and  small 
island  developing 
States,  are 
the 
negative  effects  of  climate  change  claim  thousands  of 
human lives and important livelihood stocks. The very 
existence  of  some  island  States  is  even  threatened. 
Building  resilience  and  reducing  vulnerabilities  to 
climate change effects is therefore vital. 
Portugal  is  strongly  involved  in  the  global  effort 

on renewable energies, and we believe that low-carbon 
increasingly  evident.  Every  day, 
10-54527 

31 

A/65/PV.9 

development strategies are a key feature of sustainable 
growth and will significantly contribute to attaining the 
MDGs.  To  this  end,  Portugal  remains  committed  to 
developing  a  competitive,  knowledge-based,  inclusive 
and  eco-efficient  global  economy,  contributing  to  the 
implementation of adaptation and mitigation actions, in 
particular  in  small  island  developing  States,  least 
developed  countries  and  on  the  African  continent,  in 
the  framework  of  the  fast  start  financing  that  was 
agreed upon in Copenhagen. 

Another  important  challenge  is  the  financial  and 
economic  crisis  and  its  impact  and  consequences, 
especially,  but  not  only,  for  the  least  developed 
countries. The effects of this are of various types, from 
trade  to  investment  and  financing.  Nevertheless,  I 
would like to particularly highlight the deep structural 
changes  that  affect  the  way  we  look  upon  economic 
growth and development over the next few decades. It 
is evident that a new paradigm for our global economy 
is  needed,  and  such  a  paradigm  cannot  be  dissociated 
from greater justice and equity in the use of resources 
and in the distribution of wealth.  

In this context, the MDGs constitute an essential 
framework  for  our  common  future.  This  must  remain 
uppermost  in  our  minds  as  we  all  strive  to  reach  the 
MDG  targets  by  2015,  and  that  is  why  mobilizing 
financial resources, domestic or external, traditional or 
innovative, is essential at this stage. 

While  keeping  our  aid  pledges  and  working  for 
increased  quantity  and  quality of  official  development 
assistance,  Portugal  supports  the  ongoing  work  on 
innovative sources of financing, and we join our voice 
to others before us in calling for the creation of a new 
tax  on  financial 
to 
development, 
the  fight  against  climate 
change. 

My  final  word  goes  to  the  role  of  the  emerging 
economies and new actors in cooperation in achieving 
the MDGs by 2015. Due to its own historic experience, 
Portugal  is  particularly  well-positioned  to  understand 
the  spirit  of  solidarity  that  should  guide  cooperation 
with developing countries. The current aid architecture 
is  evolving,  quite 
the 
contributions  and  opportunities  that  arise  from  the 
involvement of emerging economies. We stand ready to 
engage  in  a  constructive  dialogue  with  them,  open  to 
the  concerns  of  the  poorest  countries.  Let  me  assure 
transactions,  a 
tax  allocated 
incorporate 
including 
rightly, 
to 
that  made 
them  vulnerable,  given 
you  that  Portugal  continues  to  be  fully  committed  to 
the MDGs. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jorge  Lara 
Castro,  Deputy  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Republic of Paraguay. 
Mr. Lara Castro (Paraguay) (spoke in Spanish): 

Today’s  world  is  truly  in  a  process  of  transition 
towards  a  new  world  order.  Global  change 
is 
accelerating,  and  the  financial,  energy,  social  and 
environmental  crises  have  revealed  the  contradictions, 
conflicts and strategic interests of the great Powers, as 
well  as  the  weaknesses  of  dependent  countries  and 
countries of intermediate development. There is talk of 
strategic  alliances  at  various 
levels  within 
these 
interdependent relationships and of failed States.  

Paraguay is among those nation States that, over 
the  course  of  history,  have  fallen  prey  to  various 
factors 
their 
geographic  situation  and  historical  experiences.  As  a 
landlocked  State,  Paraguay  has  been  weakened  by  a 
historic  model  of  socio-economic  development  based 
on the looting of its natural and strategic resources and 
administered 
structural 
dependence.  

Our  country  has  one  of  the  largest  freshwater 
reserves, the Guaraní aquifer, and many other valuable 
water  resources  that  we  share  with  our  neighbours. 
These  strategic  resources  require  genuine  energy 
integration  to  foster  capacities  to  produce  clean  and 
renewable energy on a fair and equitable basis for all.  

to  focus  on  sustainable 
development  that  will  meet  our  present  needs  without 
compromising 
future 
generations.  Paraguay  believes  that  sustainable  human 
development  is  possible  to  the  extent  that  the  planet 
itself  is  sustainable.  Living  in  harmony  with  Mother 
Earth  must  be  an  imperative  for  all  peoples  and  a 
historic responsibility towards future generations.  

At  the  international  level,  globalization  poses  a 
challenge  to  countries  like  Paraguay,  and  all  the  more 
so in a world of unequal relationships where developed 
economies  weigh  heavily  on  developing  economies. 
This situation, at the dawn of the twenty-first century, 
entails  various  responsibilities  but  only  one  common 
objective  —  that  of  sharing  the  effort  to  uphold  the 
humanity of our peoples.  
resources  available  of 
Paraguay’s  goal 
relations 
through 
the 
of 
is 
32 

10-54527 
fight  against  poverty,  pandemics, 



For  Paraguay,  which  has  been  a  Member  of  this 
Organization from the outset, and in particular for the 
current  Government  of  President  Fernando  Lugo,  the 
principles  and  purpose  of  maintaining  international 
peace  and  security,  established  in  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations, are crucial. We are certain that only an 
effective  multilateral  discussion  of  such  problems  as 
the 
terrorism, 
international  organized  crime  and  inequalities  among 
nations,  as  well  as  the  growing  threat  of  the  loss  of 
cultural  identities  and  other  global  threats,  such  as 
climate change, will enable us to design and implement 
an agenda to promote these important goals.  

It  is  therefore  politically  important  for  global 
leaders  to  heighten  their  awareness  of  the  need  to 
address  these  challenges  and  commitments.  A  key 
component and catalyst for the renewed United Nations 
agenda  are 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs), which we adopted 10 years ago as a synthesis 
of all the proposals made at our high-level summits of 
the  1990s.  Through  these  Goals,  we  salvaged  and 
renewed the commitments, values and principles of our 
United Nations. Meeting the Millennium Development 
Goals and implementing the necessary actions to do so 
will 
and 
integration;  secondly,  international  social  justice;  and 
thirdly, human rights and democracy.  
Thus,  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  recall 

the  commitments  made  both  at  the  level  of  our 
Governments  as  well  as  within  the  United  Nations 
development  system.  It  is  thus,  too,  that  we  conclude 
that  declarations  are  not  sufficient,  but  that  we  must 
further  define  these  commitments  on  the  basis  of 
specific responsibilities and give them substance. 

The  noble  Millennium  Development  Goals 
represent  the  broadest  consensus  ever  achieved  by 
humankind on how to improve the quality of life of the 
citizens of the world over a short period of time. Today, 
that time is shorter than ever, as we are now counting 
down the days. Only 1,825 remain.  

Paraguay reaffirms its commitment to continuing 
to strive to meet the established Goals. By shouldering 
its  responsibility  for  the  MDGs,  our  Government  has 
worked  in  a  participatory  manner  with  representatives 
of the public sector, the private sector and civil society 
in  developing  a  draft  public  policy  on  social 
development for the period 2010-2020. The 2020 plan, 
known  as  “Paraguay  for  All”,  provides  the  guiding 
cooperation, 
solidarity 
require, 
first, 
A/65/PV.9
framework of our current Government’s social policies, 
and is based on four main elements.  

The  first  concerns  universal  access  to  social 
goods  and  services  provided  by  the  State,  and  is 
founded  on  the  recognition  of  the  peoples’  right  to 
universal  access  to  quality  social  goods  and  services. 
The  second  element  addresses  the  poor,  excluded  and 
vulnerable population, whose access to universal social 
services has diminished. In designing specific policies, 
we  seek  to  progressively  ensure  greater  equality  in 
access  to  social  services.  The  third  element  provides 
for  an  inclusive  development  model  that  encourages 
social and economic equity among the population. The 
final element is aimed at strengthening institutions and 
improving the effectiveness of social investment.  

With regard to the progress made and challenges 
encountered  in  meeting  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  in  Paraguay,  next  year  we  will  celebrate  our 
bicentennial. We hope to celebrate that important event 
with  a  significant  reduction  in  the  level  of  extreme 
poverty,  pursuant  to  prior  commitments  made  by  our 
country’s previous representatives.  
However,  as  a  result  of  the  State’s  lengthy 

periods  of  delinquency,  we  have  accrued  a  significant 
social  deficit  in  Paraguay.  In  Paraguay,  we  refer  to 
almost two and a half decades — the 1980s, 1990s and 
part of the first decade of the twenty-first century — as 
lost  decades.  Our  gross  domestic  product  decreased 
during that time and social policy was more a matter of 
rhetoric than of real action on the ground. As a result, 
our attainment of the Goals has been delayed. 

society  have 
understood  the  validity  of  the  arguments  favouring 
more and better social investment to eradicate poverty. 
The  underpinning  ethical  argument 
the 
universalization  of  human  rights  must  constitute  the 
bedrock  of  a  nation  that  seeks  to  ensure  equity  and 
equality  for  its  citizens. The  political  argument  is  that 
social  investment  is  an  instrument  to  promote  social 
cohesion  and  democratic  governance.  Finally,  the 
economic  argument  is  that  social  investment  is  a 
powerful  tool  for  economic  and  productive  growth  in 
the  medium  and  the  long  terms.  It  is  therefore 
important  for  developed  countries  to  cooperate  with 
developing  countries 
innovative  financing 
mechanisms. 
While  the  MDGs  are  more  than  the  work  of 

Governments,  we  are  convinced  that  by  2013,  when 
Both  Government  and  civil 
through 
that 
is 
10-54527 

33 
respect 
to 
our 

With 
education, 
A/65/PV.9 

our  Government  will  have  completed  its  mandate,  we 
will have brought change to Paraguay as it becomes a 
more  prosperous,  equitable  and  sustainable  country 
with  a  comprehensive  social  policy  focused  on 
territorial  coverage  and  enshrined 
in  a  stronger, 
institutionalized  and  transparent  public  administration 
that responds to needs and demands without exception. 

The  change  to  which  we  are  committed  will 
include  people  living  in  poverty  in  the  development 
process  in  order  to  improve  their  quality  of  life, 
generate  comprehensive  development,  promote  and 
build  capacity  to  facilitate  access  to  employment, 
eradicate  illiteracy,  and  guarantee  food  security  and 
universal access to health care, primary schooling, safe 
water and basic sanitation. In turn, as a priority matter, 
we  shall  establish  mechanisms  to  guarantee  the  rights 
of children, adolescents and indigenous peoples.  

explicit 
commitment  is  to  achieve  an  illiteracy  rate  of  only 
1.9 per  cent  by  2013.  We  shall  complete  the  process 
launched at the advent of democracy in Paraguay in the 
field  of  access  to  education,  and  in  the  coming  years 
we will focus on improving the quality of education.  

In the area of gender equality and empowerment 
of women, we can say that there have  been  highs  and 
lows.  We  have  almost  achieved  gender  equality  in 
basic and secondary education, but with respect to the 
labour  market  and  women  in  political  positions,  there 
is  still  room  for  improvement  in  order  to  achieve 
greater equality between men and women. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss):  I  am  sorry,  but 

speeches  are  timed  to  be  five  minutes.  You  have 
spoken  for  15  minutes  now,  and  there  are  many  other 
interventions. 

minutes. 
(spoke in Spanish) 
In  the  context  of  our  Government’s  programme, 

civil society organizations are crucial in supporting the 
policies  of  structural  reform  and  promoting  social 
conditions 
that  will  guarantee  fundamental  rights 
through the dovetailing of the Government’s work with 
civil society. 

With respect to the environment, at the upcoming 
sixteenth  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to 
Mr.  Castro  (Paraguay):  I  will  finish  in  two 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki):  May  I  remind 
that  statements  should  not  exceed  five 
take  place  in  Cancún,  Mexico,  our  negotiators  will 
again,  as  they  did  Copenhagen,  undertake  the  urgent 
and  overdue  mission  of  making  real  change  for  the 
future of humankind. 

To conclude, we wish to emphasize that by 2013, 
the  Government  of  President  Fernando  Lugo  Méndez, 
through  the  public  policy  for  social  development 
known  as  2020  Plan:  Paraguay  for  All,  to  which  I 
referred to at the start of my statement, has committed 
to deploying its greatest efforts to meet and overcome 
our  historic  challenges  and  to  fulfil  our  commitments 
made at the Millennium Summit. Having learned from 
the  errors  of  the  past  and  now  building  on  present 
achievements,  we  firmly  believe  that  we  are  sowing 
fertile fields so that our future generations will inherit 
a better world.  

speakers 
minutes. We have too many speakers on our list. 
(spoke in Arabic) 

I  now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Paul 
Badji,  Permanent  Representative  of  the  Republic  of 
Senegal. 
Mr. Badji (Senegal) (spoke in French): Assessing 

the  progress  made  in  implementing  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  reminds  us  once  again 
that our ambitious mission to build a world free of the 
scourges  of  poverty  and  famine  has  not  yet  been 
accomplished.  In  the  unusual  current  circumstances, 
where  the  combined  effects  of  the  recent  crises 
continue  to  burden  the  economies  of  developing 
countries  and  our  States’  capacities,  this  assessment 
recalls us to our duty to act as soon as possible in the 
final  stretch  towards  2015.  It  is  not  too  late  to 
transform  the  act  of  faith  symbolized  by  the  MDGs 
into  positive  and  tangible  results  that  will  benefit  all, 
including the wealthy countries.  

My  country  remains  committed  to  that  path  and 
intends to pursue bold reforms and the implementation 
of  necessary  policies  to  improve  the  daily  living 
conditions  of 
the  most 
vulnerable groups. 

That  is  why  Senegal  has  made  progress  in  such 
areas  as  the  fight  against  malnutrition,  education, 
combating HIV and other infectious diseases, access to 
drinking  water  and  sanitation,  the  empowerment  of 
women  and  gender  equality.  However,  the  context  of 
in  particular 
its  people, 
34 

10-54527 
to  pursue 
three  areas 


the  global  crises  could  further  compromise  these 
achievements  and  have  a  negative  impact  on  attaining 
the  goals.  In  other  words,  many  challenges  remain 
despite the non-negligible achievements made. Thus, in 
Senegal we have undertaken to refocus our efforts and 
prioritize  the  path  to  success.  This  has  led  the 
Government 
for  priority 
intervention  in  order  to  promote  development  while 
bearing in mind new challenges. 

The  first  priority  is  to  pursue  lasting  economic 
growth.  It  is  clear  that  while  we  must  strive  to  meet 
social demands, we must also invest in growth in order 
to facilitate young people’s access to employment and 
enable  a  fairer  distribution  of  income  and  services, 
including  to  those  most  socially  disadvantaged.  We 
have  therefore  designed  our  strategy  and  economic 
development  guidelines  for  the  long  term,  focusing  in 
particular  on  investment  in  human  resources,  high-
quality  major  infrastructure  and  the  promotion  of  a 
climate  conducive  to  unleashing  private  initiative.  We 
seek  to  consolidate  growth  in  order  to  accelerate  the 
creation of wealth and sustainable jobs, particularly for 
women and young people, and to strengthen the bases 
of  long-term  development,  supported  by  a  far-sighted 
policy of good governance and the rule of law. 

Our second priority  is to develop and modernize 
agriculture  in  order  to  eliminate  the  vulnerability  and 
lack  of stability that  afflict the millions  of individuals 
who  work  in  that  sector.  Since  three-fourths  of  the 
population  depends  on 
increased 
investments  will  be  crucial  to  raising  productivity, 
winning the fight against hunger and food security, and 
maintaining  employment  in  rural  areas,  thus  ensuring 
farmers  a  permanent  livelihood  and  limiting  their 
exodus. 

Our  major  agricultural  programme  for  food  and 
abundance, known as Goana — which was launched in 
2008  and  for  which  we,  following  the  success  of 
previous  years,  have  started  the  third  phase  of  its 
implementation  —  reflects  our  desire  to  foster  a  rural 
revolution.  It  will  make  agriculture  a  lever  for  the 
economic  promotion  of  farmers,  in  particular  through 
their unionization and the establishment of rural banks, 
which will enable them to access credit and financing. 

Our  third  priority  involves  the  acceleration  and 
expansion  of  the  provision  of  basic  social  services, 
education, and, above all, health care, with a particular 
focus  on  strengthening  health  care  systems  and 
this 
sector, 
A/65/PV.9
respect 
through 
the  difficulties 
universal  access  to  health  care  services.  This  is  a 
prerequisite  to  meeting  the  challenge  of  eradicating 
infectious diseases and achieving the Goals of reducing 
maternal  and  child  mortality 
rates,  as  well  as 
improving the food and nutrition situation. 

Here, I solemnly commend the excellent initiative 
of  the  Secretary-General,  who  had  the  ingenious  idea 
of  submitting  to  us  the  Global  Strategy  for  Women’s 
and  Children’s  Health.  The  Strategy  will  certainly  be 
an  important  benchmark  for  our  collective  effort  to 
inspire the future work of States as we round this final 
bend. 

Clearly,  we  have  no  option  but  to  work  together 
to  maintain  our  positive  achievements  and,  above  all, 
to  overcome 
the  pooled, 
concerted  and  unified  efforts  of  the  international 
community as a whole, underpinned by a global agenda 
in which each person can play his or her own role. 
It  goes  without  saying  that  in  this  exercise,  the 

support  of  wealthy  countries  and 
for 
commitments  undertaken  in  the  context  of  various 
partnerships  will  be  critical  to  removing  the  obstacles 
that  hamper  the  achievement  of  the  MDGs.  In  this 
great endeavour, Senegal is more determined than ever 
to work with all its partners for the achievement of the 
better world to which we are so looking forward. 
The Co-Chair (Mr. Treki) (spoke in Arabic): We 

shall now hear brief reports of the Chairs of the round 
tables. 

We begin with the Co-Chair of round table 1, Her 
Excellency  Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
People’s Republic of Bangladesh. 
Sheikh  Hasina  (Bangladesh):  We  concluded  the 

deliberations of round table 1 on 20 September. At the 
outset, I would like to thank the heads of delegations, 
civil society, experts and academia for their invaluable 
contribution  to  our  discussion.  The  round  table  was  a 
huge success. Before summarizing our deliberations, I 
would also ask Member States to set a new goal for the 
implementation  of  what  we  have  decided  in  our 
deliberations. 
We agree that the achievement of the Millennium 

Development  Goals  (MDGs),  and  in  particular  the 
eradication of poverty, hunger and malnutrition and the 
promotion  of  gender  equality,  is  essential  to  our 
economic  and  social  development  efforts.  Concrete 
national  and  international  actions  and  investments  are 
10-54527 

35 

Member  States  commit 
A/65/PV.9 

needed  to  accelerate  progress  towards  achieving  the 
Goals  and 
to  strengthen  global  partnerships  for 
development. 

to  pursuing  gender-
sensitive policies for inclusive and equitable economic 
growth and sustainable development. Priority attention 
must be given to alleviating the adverse effects on the 
poor,  especially  women,  of  the  multiple  global  crises 
and the challenge of climate change. 

Actions  must  be  comprehensive  and  enhance 
national  ownership  of  development  processes.  We 
commit 
to  mobilizing  private  and  public  sector 
resources, scaling-up good practices and strengthening 
national  and  local  capacity  for  service  delivery  and 
infrastructure  development.  Such  actions  should  be 
supported  by  increased  development  assistance  and 
reinforced 
and 
by  gender-sensitive  monitoring 
accountability mechanisms at the national level. 
We  recognize  that  the  promotion  of  gender 

equality and women’s human rights is a key driver for 
achieving all MDGs and has a multiplier effect across 
all  sectors.  We  commit 
the  elimination  of 
discrimination  and  violence  against  women,  the  full 
and  equal  participation  of  women  at  all  levels  of 
accelerated 
decision-making  processes, 
the 
implementation  of  gender-responsive 
laws 
and 
policies. 

We  agree  that  broad-based  employment  policies 
for  full  and  productive  employment  and  decent  work 
for  all  are  central  to  our  responses.  Priority  attention 
should focus on promoting job-intensive recovery. This 
will  require  targeted  labour  market  support  and  skills 
development,  including  programmes  that  enhance  the 
full  and  equal  participation  of  women  in  the  formal 
economy.  Ensuring  universal  access  to  social  services 
and comprehensive systems of social protection at the 
national  level  is  critical  to  reducing  poverty,  hunger 
and  inequality.  Innovative  and  inclusive  financial 
services, such as microfinancing and microcredit, must 
be made available to the poor, especially women. 

We  resolve  to  pay  much  greater  attention  to 
improving  agricultural  productivity  and  ensuring  food 
and  nutrition 
in  developing  countries, 
especially  for  those  living  in  extreme  poverty  and 
hunger. Coordinated responses to the food crisis should 
focus  on  addressing  food  price  volatility  and  on 
adopting  measures  encouraging  greater  resilience  to 
shocks. At the global  and  national levels, efforts must 
security 
and 
to 
history 
today 
by 
adopting 
improved 
redoubled 
investment 
to  achieve  greater 
infrastructure,  better  access 
be 
in 
agriculture.  We  must  invest  in  smallholder  agriculture 
through 
to 
markets, imports, financial services, skills, technology 
and  reserves.  It  is  critical  to  ensure  that  women  and 
marginalized groups have full and equal access to land 
and property. 

Since this is a summary statement, I will not add 
any  further  points  here.  What  I  will  emphasize  is  the 
realization  of  what  we  have  resolved.  Let  us  make 
poverty and gender inequality history. To that end, we 
must  make 
the 
recommendations  of  round  table  1  in  the  outcome 
document of the plenary. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Gert 
Rosenthal,  Permanent  Representative  of  Guatemala  to 
the  United  Nations,  who  will  make  a  presentation  on 
behalf of the Co-Chair of round table 2. 
Mr. Rosenthal (Guatemala) (spoke in Spanish): I 

have the honour to present, on behalf of the President 
of Guatemala and the Prime Minister of Kuwait, some 
of the highlights of the discussions in round table 2 on 
meeting  the  goals  of  health  and  education.  The 
numerous  statements  covered  diverse  points  of  view 
and 
to 
distinguish  areas  that  gave  rise  to  agreement  from 
those that did not. 

First,  it  was  underscored  that  education  and 
health  go  hand  in  hand.  For  instance,  it  is  said  that  a 
one-year increase in women’s education translates into 
an almost 10-per cent drop in infant mortality.  

Second,  noting  that  education  and  health  are 
central  to  poverty  reduction  and  to  achieving  all  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  most 
speakers stressed that those two sectors must be closely 
coordinated in national development plans.  

Third, it was emphasized that inequities in health 
and  education  are  a  barrier  to  attaining  the  MDGs.  It 
was  therefore  felt  that  improving  access  to  quality 
education and health services — especially for women 
and  girls,  the  residents  of  rural  and  remote  areas,  the 
vulnerable  and  poorest  populations,  and  persons  with 
disabilities  —  is  crucial  to  overcoming  disparities 
within countries. 
Fourth,  since  improvements  in  health  depend  on 

multi-pronged  strategies,  many  speakers  expressed 
issues,  and  no  attempt  has  been  made 
36 

10-54527 


their  commitment  to  strengthening  health  systems; 
improving  access  to  good  health  care  and  quality, 
community-based  sanitation  interventions;  increasing 
access  to  clean  water  and  sanitation;  and  expanding 
immunization coverage. 

Fifth,  in  general,  speakers  made  it  clear  that 
important  progress  has  been  made  towards  achieving 
universal  primary  education,  stressing 
that  many 
countries  have  passed  the  90-per  cent  enrolment 
threshold.  It  must  also  be  recognized,  however,  that 
more attention must be paid to expanding access to all 
levels  of  education,  from  early  childhood  to  higher 
levels,  particularly  for  girls,  and  to  improving  the 
quality  of  education,  including  by  improving  teacher 
training. 

Sixth, one point frequently raised was the need to 
increase  funding  for  reducing  maternal,  child  and 
newborn  mortality,  and 
for  achieving  universal 
reproductive  health  by  2015,  including  by  expanding 
access  to  family  planning,  emergency  obstetric  care 
and  skilled  birth  attendants.  The  Secretary-General’s 
Global  Strategy  for  Women’s  and  Children’s  Health 
was warmly welcomed. 

Seventh,  it  was  suggested  that  partnerships  are 
the  way  forward,  and  that  we  must  continue  working 
together,  mobilizing  stakeholders  at  all  levels  and 
across  sectors  in  order  to  align  with  and  support 
Government-led  processes,  to  develop  and  implement 
comprehensive national health and education plans. 

It  was  also  widely  recognized  that  mobilizing 
sufficient  resources  remains  a  challenge.  National  and 
international financial commitments must be honoured, 
despite  the  current  financial  crisis.  The  need  to  meet 
the  Abuja  targets  for  health,  to  support  large-scale 
initiatives such as Muskoka and Education for All, and 
to  explore 
innovative  financing  mechanisms  was 
frequently  mentioned.  Several  delegations  called  for 
the replenishment of the Global Fund. 
Lastly,  the  announcement  of  specific  commitments 

over the next five years was welcomed. These include 
the  World  Bank’s  pledge  to  devote  more  than  $600 
million to maternal and child health, plus an additional 
$750 million to education, as well as Germany’s offer 
to  provide  €400  million  to  combat  maternal  and  child 
mortality. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I 

now give the floor to Her Excellency Mrs. Etta Banda, 
A/65/PV.9
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Malawi, 
who  will  make  a  statement  on  behalf  of  the  Co-Chair 
of round table 3. 
Mrs. Banda (Malawi): I present to members the 

summary  of  discussions  held  at  the  summit’s  round 
table 3, entitled “Promoting sustainable development”. 

Member  States  acknowledged  the  interdependence 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and 
affirmed  that  achieving  them  would  demand  a  more 
balanced  and  coherent  approach  that  integrates  the 
economic,  social  and  environmental  dimensions  of 
sustainable  development.  We  reiterate  that  eradicating 
poverty  and  enhancing  the  quality  of  life  for  the 
poorest  and  most  vulnerable  remains  the  overarching 
development objective. 

Sustainable  development  is  the  answer  to  the 
MDGs.  Social,  economic  and  environmental  policies 
need to be better integrated, including through a green 
economy approach. Linkages between environment and 
development  are 
therefore  critical  and  must  be 
strengthened  in  preparation  for  the  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development in 2012.  

National ownership of the Development Goals is 
crucial,  and  a  commitment  to  improved  governance 
essential  to  more  effectively  promoting  integrated 
development  planning,  ensuring  broad  participation 
among  major 
strengthening 
institutions and national capacities to  more effectively 
deliver  services.  Greater  attention  should  be  given  to 
national sustainable development strategies to promote 
transformation towards sustainable development. 

Water  plays  a  central  role  in  ensuring  increased 
food  production  to  combat  hunger,  reduce  mortality, 
facilitate  education  and  promote  gender  equality  and 
the 
empowerment  of  women.  Member  States 
acknowledged  the  importance  of  the  supply  side  to 
progress in implementing the MDGs, and agreed that it 
must  be  adequately  addressed  if  all  is  to  go  well. 
Member  States  committed  to  enhancing  water  access 
and affordability and to improving sanitation services. 
Integrated  water  resources  management  is  central  to 
ensuring  sustainable  and  equitable  access  to  safe 
drinking water and basic sanitation. 
to 

sustainable 
become 
environmentally  sustainable,  socially  responsible  and 
economically productive. Improving the lives of slum-
urbanization.  Cities  must 
to  pay  greater  attention 
We 
resolved 
stakeholders, 
and 
10-54527 

37 
into 
the  progress 
forest  management 
A/65/PV.9 

dwellers  is  essential  to  achieving  the  MDGs.  We 
therefore  commit  to  addressing  the  most  fundamental 
rights of slum-dwellers, including  access to water and 
sanitation,  adequate  shelter,  nutrition,  health  care  and 
education. 

We underscore the urgent need for investment in 
our ecological infrastructure, including ecosystems and 
biodiversity,  taking  into  account  the  importance  of 
natural  resources,  including  forests,  in  combating 
climate  change.  We  welcome 
in 
integrating  the  ecosystem  approach,  biodiversity  and 
water resources to ensure environmental sustainability. 
We  also  welcome  support  for  the  incorporation  of 
sustainable 
national 
development  plans 
through  fiscal  and  non-fiscal 
incentives to Governments. 

We reaffirm that strong global partnership and the 
support  of  the  donor  community  and  development 
institutions  are  vital  to  progress  in  achieving  the 
MDGs.  Such  support  should  be  mobilized  to  promote 
the  transfer  of  skills,  improve  national  capacities  to 
deliver  services,  and  facilitate  technology  transfer. 
International  support  should  be  based  on  priorities 
identified  at 
improved 
coordination  of  existing  initiatives  is  crucial  at  all 
levels. 

Finally,  we  recognize  the  importance  of  peace 
and  stability  as  essential  preconditions  for  sustainable 
development and the improvement of the quality of life 
for all. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Co-
Chair  of  round  table  4,  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Tarja 
Halonen, President of the Republic of Finland. 
President Halonen: It is an honour to present, on 

behalf of His Excellency Mr. Danilo Türk, President of 
the 
Slovenia,  and  myself,  a  summary  of 
rich 
discussions  on 
and 
evolving 
approaches.  I  also  convey  our  warm  thanks  to  all  the 
participants. 

First,  regarding  climate  change,  participants 
shared the view that the transition to a green economy 
with  high  growth  and 
reduced  greenhouse  gas 
emissions  is  both  necessary  and  feasible.  Several 
participants  welcomed  the  launch  of  the  High-level 
Panel on Global Sustainability in that regard. 
the  national 
level.  The 
emerging 
issues 

its 
root  causes, 
The urgent need to increase access to modern and 

Several  participants  stressed  that  adaptation  and 
mitigation  will  require  additional  financial  assistance, 
beyond  existing  official  development  assistance 
commitments,  sharing  technological  know-how  and 
building institutional capacity. It was noted that public 
financing  is  not  enough  to  cover  adaptation  and 
mitigation  needs,  but  the  contribution  of  the  business 
sector,  as  well  as  non-governmental  organizations,  is 
required. 

sustainable energy services was highlighted. 

Secondly, a more comprehensive approach to the 
global  financial  and  economic  crisis  was  called  for. 
With a fragile and uneven recovery and the threat of an 
unprecedented global jobs crisis, participants called for 
a  rethink  of 
the  current  economic  development 
paradigm.  The  immediate  challenge  is  to  implement 
appropriate policies to cement the recovery, strengthen 
resilience  against 
future 
shocks,  and  gradually 
withdraw stimulus policies. 
A  long-term  solution  to  the  crisis  will  require 

addressing 
reviewing 
regulatory oversight, continuing the ongoing reform of 
the  financial  and  economic  system,  and  placing  job 
creation 
the  heart  of 
macroeconomic policies.  
Providing  basic  social  protection  floors  is  an 

important  element  in  combating  poverty  and  growing 
inequalities within countries. While emerging from the 
crisis may take time, job creation is an immediate and 
critically  important  task.  The  need  to  fully  tap  the 
potential  of  civil  society  and  the  private  sector, 
especially 
innovative  solutions,  was 
stressed. 

Thirdly, the importance of food security has very 
often  been  underestimated.  Medium-  and  long-term 
investment  needs  to  be  scaled  up  to  feed  a  growing 
world  population  and  to  improve  rural  livelihoods. 
Such investment should focus on smallholder farmers, 
particularly women, to enable them to build profitable 
businesses and to promote access to nutritious food for 
the most vulnerable. 

There are also other major emerging issues, such 
as enhancing accountability on all sides and increasing 
policy  coherence,  which  require  our  urgent  collective 
attention. 
and  decent  work 
in  providing 
including 
at 
38 

10-54527 
are 
among 
Other 
needed 
include 
approach 
issues  emphasized 
innovative  sources  of 



The  human  and  social  dimensions  of  policy 
choices  and  indices  are  easily  forgotten.  For  example, 
economic growth helps people best if it increases jobs. 

the  nexus 
between conflict and development, energy systems and 
energy  access,  cross-border  movements  of  people 
seeking  jobs  and  a  better  life,  and  the  importance  of 
exploring 
financing  while 
honouring official development assistance commitments. 
Also,  the  fact  that  preventing  and  responding  early  to 
conflict is less expensive, and more human, than crisis 
management, was mentioned many times. 

In summary,  the overall sense of the round table 
was that there is an urgent need for a new development 
paradigm, with environmental sustainability and social 
inclusion  at  its  centre.  A  true  partnership  and  a 
coordinated 
all 
stakeholders:  Governments,  civil  society,  research  and 
academia,  and  the  private  sector. There  was  a  broadly 
held view that the United Nations has a key role to play 
in  a  rapidly  changing  and  interdependent  world  with 
many  evolving  challenges 
for  global 
responses. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I 

now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Winston 
Baldwin  Spencer,  Prime  Minister  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda, Co-Chair of round table 5. 
Mr.  Spencer  (Antigua  and  Barbuda):  I  am 

honoured  to  present  a  summary  of  the  discussion  in 
round  table  5,  on  addressing  the  needs  of  the  most 
vulnerable. 

It was observed that the promotion and protection 
of human rights is a prerequisite for the achievement of 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). We must 
spare  no  effort 
to  advance  equality  and  non-
discrimination  with  regard  to  gender,  age,  disability, 
ethnicity, geographic location and HIV/AIDS status. It 
was noted that to answer the question of who the most 
vulnerable  are,  and  what 
their 
vulnerability are, we need more disaggregated data. 

The  representatives  of  small  island  developing 
States  and  landlocked  countries  pointed  out  their 
special  vulnerability 
to  climate  change,  natural 
disasters  and  high  energy  and  transportation  costs. To 
fight climate change, more investment should be made 
in  mitigation  and  adaptation  mechanisms,  reducing 
the  causes  of 
that  call 
A/65/PV.9
to 
resources 
financial 
capacity-building 
dependency  on  fossil  fuels  and  increasing  investment 
in renewable energies. 

The  international  community  is  urged  to  assist 
vulnerable  countries, 
least  developed  countries, 
landlocked  developing  countries  and  small  island 
developing  States  in  addressing  their  specific  needs 
and development challenges. Urgent action must focus 
on effective aid and trade policies, the fulfilment of all 
official  development  assistance  commitments  and 
for 
further  mobilization  of 
development, 
including 
and 
technology  transfer.  Countries  in  conflict  and  post-
conflict situations are especially vulnerable, and are in 
need  of  renewed  focus  on  peacebuilding,  including 
consolidation  of  State  institutions  and  assistance  to 
internally displaced people and refugees. 

Member  States  recognize  that  ensuring  equitable 
access  to  economic  opportunities  and  social  services 
for the poor  and those in  vulnerable situations is vital 
for  the  achievement  of  the  MDGs.  We  should  devote 
adequate  resources 
tackling  basic  sources  of 
vulnerability,  such  as  lack  of  access  to  adequate 
nutrition, education, skills training, health services and 
decent  jobs.  More  efforts  are  needed  to  ensure  access 
to  financial  services,  including  microfinancing,  credit 
and  insurance  for  all,  especially  those  in  vulnerable 
situations. 

Governments also underscore that comprehensive 
systems  of  social  protection  are  essential  to  reducing 
inequality and vulnerability, to achieving development 
goals  and  to  shielding  those  most  vulnerable  in  times 
of  economic  crisis.  Some  also  noted  that  conditional 
and  unconditional  cash  transfers  can  be  effective  in 
reducing  vulnerability.  More  international  cooperation 
is needed to support policies and programmes aimed at 
reducing 
living  with 
HIV/AIDS,  through  prevention,  treatment,  care  and 
support  strategies,  including  special  efforts  to  address 
stigmatization and discrimination. 

and 
minorities,  should  be  empowered  and  represented  in 
national  parliaments  and  included  in  the  development 
process.  Vulnerability 
the  context  of  peace 
negotiations  was  also  noted.  The  special  needs  of 
Palestinian refugees merit special attention. 

that,  without 
addressing  the  special  needs  of  the  most  vulnerable 
countries and people, the MDGs cannot be achieved. 
In  conclusion,  we  all  agree 
the  vulnerability  of  people 
Vulnerable  groups, 
especially  women 
in 
10-54527 

39 
A/65/PV.9 

The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now  give  the  floor  to  Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Tiina 
Intelmann,  Permanent  Representative  of  the  Republic 
of Estonia, who will make a presentation on behalf of 
the Co-Chair of round table 6. 
Mrs.  Intelmann  (Estonia):  On  behalf  of  the 

President  of  Estonia,  Co-Chair  of  round  table  6,  I  am 
pleased  to  provide  a  summary  of  the  round  table 
discussions on widening and strengthening partnerships. 
It was acknowledged that progress has been made 

the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
in  achieving 
(MDGs),  especially  in  the  area  of  reducing  extreme 
poverty.  However,  it  was  also  acknowledged  that  the 
recent  global  climate  and  food  crisis  has  had  an 
adverse impact on development. Effective partnerships 
are now more crucial to achieving the MDGs, and there 
was  commitment  to  enhancing  the  global  partnership 
for development and accelerating efforts to deliver and 
fully implement existing commitments, as called for in 
MDG 8. 

It  was  emphasized  that  responsibility  lies  with 
both  developed  and  developing  countries.  Developed 
countries  were  called  on  to  support  development  by 
meeting  their  commitments,  as  set  by  the  Gleneagles 
meeting of the Group of 8, the United  Nations targets 
of 0.7 per cent of gross national income (GNI) by 2015 
and  0.5  per  cent  of  GNI  by  2010,  with  clear  and 
accountable 
traditional 
development cooperation, the increasing importance of 
South-South cooperation was stressed, and the fact that 
development  has  become  more  globalized  was 
welcomed.  In  this  sense,  the  role  of  civil  society  and 
the  private 
investment, 
non-governmental  organizations  and  local  communities, 
was  acknowledged.  Participants  emphasized 
that 
the  effectiveness  and  quality  of  aid, 
increasing 
including  reducing 
in 
accordance  with  the  Paris  Declaration  and  the  Accra 
Agenda, was most essential. 

Ultimately, Governments are responsible for their 
own  development.  National  strategies  and  leadership, 
effective  policies  for  reaching  the  poorest,  increased 
domestic 
and 
strengthening  capacity-building  were  mentioned  as 
critical to development. 

The  call  was  made  to  treat  development  as  a 
human right for all. The role of women, with an equal 
voice  and under equal  conditions, was  also mentioned 
the  fragmentation  of  aid, 
through  greater 
promoting 
timelines. 
In  addition 
to 
revenues, 
growth 

as  essential  for 
long-term  development.  Another 
precondition  for  effective  aid  and  development  was  a 
stable  and  secure  environment.  Therefore,  the  rule  of 
law,  the  fight  against  crime,  corruption,  terrorism  and 
trafficking in illegal drugs, weapons and human beings 
were  presented  as  most  essential  if  we  are  to  have 
accountable and effective institutions. 

A  fair  and  equitable  multilateral  trading  system 
remains critical to strengthening the global partnership 
for  development  by  ensuring  market  access  through 
full  and  unconditional,  duty-free  and  quota-free 
treatment  for  exports  originating  in  least  developed 
countries.  The 
timely  and  development-oriented 
conclusion  of  the  Doha  Round  of  trade  negotiations 
would be essential.  

It was recognized that many countries are in debt 
distress  and  that  debt  initiatives  must  be  expanded 
beyond the poorest countries and strengthened to strive 
for  more  broadly  applicable  sovereign  debt  work-out 
mechanisms.  The  special  needs  of  small 
island 
developing  States  and  least  developed  countries  were 
recognized,  especially  their  vulnerability  to  external 
shocks,  for  example  natural  disasters,  and  to  the 
negative effects of climate change.  
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French): 

The General Assembly will now turn to draft resolution 
A/65/L.1,  entitled  “Keeping  the  promise:  united  to 
achieve the Millennium Development Goals”. We shall 
now proceed to consider the draft resolution. 

In  connection  with  draft  resolution  A/65/L.1,  I 
wish  to  put  on  record  the  following  statement  of 
financial  implications,  in  accordance  with  rule  153  of 
the rules of procedure of the General Assembly. Under 
the terms of the draft resolution’s operative paragraph, 
the  General  Assembly  would  adopt 
the  outcome 
document  of  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  of  the 
sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
Millennium Development Goals. 
the  draft  outcome 

In  paragraph  77  (p)  of 
document,  heads  of  State  and  Government  would 
commit themselves to accelerating progress in order to 
achieve  Goal  7,  including  through  working  towards  a 
successful  United  Nations  conference  on  sustainable 
development in 2012. 

Further,  in  paragraph  79  of  the  draft  outcome 
document,  heads  of  State  and  Government  would 
request the President of the sixty-eighth session of the 
10-54527 
sector, 
40 

to 
on 
united 
submit 
achieve 
regarding 
Conference 
later  stage 


General Assembly  to  organize  a  special  event  in  2013 
to  follow  up  on  efforts  made  towards  achieving  the 
Millennium Development Goals. 

At  the  present  time,  there  is  no  clarity  on  the 
scope,  modalities,  format  and  organization  of  the 
United  Nations 
Sustainable 
Development  in  2012  and  the  special  event  in  2013 
which could enable the Secretariat to determine the full 
potential financial implications for the biennium 2012-
2013.  Once  the  General  Assembly  takes  a  specific 
decision  at  a 
the  scope, 
modalities,  format  and  organization  of  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  and 
the  special  event,  the  Secretary-General  would  at  that 
time 
statements  of  programme  budget 
implications to the General Assembly. 

The  General Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision 
on  draft  resolution  A/65/L.1,  entitled,  “Keeping  the 
promise: 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals”.  May  I  take  it  that  the Assembly 
wishes to adopt the draft resolution? 

Draft resolution A/65/L.1 was adopted (resolution 
65/1). 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

congratulate  members  on  having  adopted  resolution 
65/1. 

I  should  like  to  express  sincere  appreciation  to 
His Excellency Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki, President of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session  and 
Co-Chair  of  this  High-level  Plenary  Meeting,  for  his 
extraordinary  efforts 
this  Meeting  a 
resounding success. He deserves a round of applause. 

My  appreciation  is  also  extended  to Ambassador 
Carsten Staur of Denmark and Ambassador Paul Badji 
of Senegal, who have so ably and patiently conducted 
the  discussions  and  complex  negotiations 
the 
informal  consultations  on  draft  resolution  A/65/L.1, 
and 
their  valuable 
contributions  to  the  successful  completion  of  the 
outcome document. 

closing of the meeting. 

I  now  yield  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr. Ali 
Abdussalam Treki,  President  of  the  General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-fourth  session  and  Co-Chair  of  the  High-
level Plenary Meeting. 
I  will  reserve  my  substantive  remarks  for  the 
to  all  Member  States 
to  make 
for 
in 
A/65/PV.9
that 
that 
This 
ideas 
specific 
agreement 
recognizes 
to  ensure 
the  global  partnership 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

These  past  three  days  have  shown  a  common  spirit  in 
the  international  community  to  meet  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  by  2015.  Many  of  you, 
colleagues, have spoken of the progress you have made 
and  the  challenges  that  still  confront  you.  But  all  of 
you agree that achieving the MDGs by 2015 is possible 
if we are committed to do so.  

The  agreement  which  we  adopted  today  as 
resolution  65/1  captures  this  commitment  and  the 
resolve of all members to achieve the Goals. It was the 
result of consensus, inclusiveness and openness and is 
an  expression  of 
is 
highlighted in MDG 8. It conveys the sense of urgency 
that  only  five  years  remain,  and  it  outlines  an  agenda 
for  action  with 
the 
implementation  of  our  commitments  to  attain  the 
Goals. 

national 
ownership and responsibility for establishing priorities 
and  the  strategies  needed  to  achieve  them  is  the 
foundation  of  development.  It  is  also  highlights, 
throughout  the  resolution,  that  inclusive  and  equitable 
growth and the promotion of trade and investment are 
necessary  for  reaching  the  MDGs  and  sustaining 
poverty  reduction.  It  recognizes  women  as  important 
agents of development and that gender equality and the 
empowerment  of  women  have  a  multiplier  impact  on 
all the Goals. 
It  focuses  on  smallholder  agriculture  as  an 

important  basis 
the 
infrastructure to feed their own populations and for the 
poor  to  lift  themselves  out  of  poverty.  It  goes  beyond 
the  specific  Goals  on  health  and  calls  for 
the 
strengthening  of  health  systems  to  deliver  equitable, 
accessible  and  high-quality  health  care  services  to  all. 
It  also  recognizes  the  special  needs  of  Africa  in 
achieving  the  MDGs,  as  well  as  those  of  least 
developed countries elsewhere. 

I would like to thank you all for your support and 
for your commitment to reaching this agreement before 
the  start  of  the  summit.  We  should  be  proud  of  this 
achievement; we need to use it as a common platform 
from which to strive to achieve all the MDGs by 2015. 
to  express,  on  behalf  of  all 

participants,  my 
to  His 
Excellency Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon as well as 
to members of the Secretariat and all of those working 
thanks  and  appreciation 
I  cannot  fail 
for  countries 
to  develop 
10-54527 

41 

like 
I  should 
In  closing, 
the  private  sector  and 
A/65/PV.9 

with  it  for  the  support  that  they  have  provided 
throughout our efforts to achieve these goals. 

to  express  our 
appreciation to the President of the General Assembly 
for  the  efforts  that  he  has  made.  I  wish  him  every 
success in his future endeavours. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now  give  the  floor  to  the  Secretary-General  of  the 
United Nations, His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon. 
The  Secretary-General  (spoke  in  French):  My 

congratulations  go  to  you  all.  This  summit  has  laid  a 
solid foundation for the progress we need in our quest 
to  achieve 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  by  the  internationally  agreed  deadline  of 
2015.  Through  the  participation  of  a  large  number  of 
heads  of  State  or  Government  and  leaders  from  civil 
society, 
the  philanthropic 
community, 
this  event  has  galvanized  worldwide 
attention.  The  summit  outcome  document  (resolution 
65/1) sends a clear sign that you remain committed to 
the Goals even in a difficult international environment. 

Special  thanks  go  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ali 
Abdussalam Treki,  President  of  the  General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-fourth  session,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Joseph 
Deiss,  President  of  the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-
fifth  session,  and  the  Co-Chairs  of  the  round  tables.  I 
also  commend  the  organizers  and  participants  of  the 
more than 80 side events,  which added great vibrancy 
to the summit. 

The  two  co-facilitators  —  Ambassador  Staur  of 
Denmark and Ambassador Badji of Senegal — worked 
tirelessly over the past few months to reach agreement 
on the summit outcome document. 
Last  but  not  least,  I  would  like  to  express  my 

deepest  appreciation  to  the  members  of  the  MDG 
Advocacy  Group.  Their  participation  has  brought  a 
new level of hope to the MDG Action Agenda. 
(spoke in English) 
That  Agenda  gives  us  a  road  map  for  dramatically 
accelerating MDG progress. Many of you have already 
committed  to  launching  new  initiatives.  Others  have 
pledged  to  do  so  in  the  near  future.  I  am  very 
encouraged to note that many Member States used this 
summit to announce concrete support. 
All  the  key  issues  and  ideas  have  been  on  the 

table,  were  part  of  the  discussion  and  are  now  part  of 
needless 
suffering 
and 
despair, 
the outcome document. Jobs, and especially green jobs, 
inclusive  and  sustainable  development,  the  need  for  a 
successful  Doha  Trade  Round  outcome,  smallholder 
farming, food and nutrition security, inclusive financial 
services,  women’s  health  and  empowerment,  a 
rejuvenated  global  partnership:  all  of  this  and  more  is 
where it should be: at the forefront of our attention as 
we ready ourselves for the push that begins now — this 
very minute. 

In the past, we have seen that when the spotlights 
are  switched  off,  world  attention  quickly  moves  on  to 
other  issues.  With  only  five  years  left,  we  cannot  let 
that  happen.  Between  now  and  2015,  we  must  make 
sure  that  promises  made  became  promises  kept.  The 
consequences  of  doing  otherwise  are  profound:  death, 
illness, 
lost 
opportunities for millions upon millions of people. We 
must hold each other accountable. The United Nations 
system and I personally will do our utmost to promote 
accountability on all sides. 

The  MDGs  were  never  meant  to  be  a  one-way 
street:  something  that  rich  countries  do  for  poor  ones. 
Quite 
for 
development  in  general  has  always  been  based  on 
global solidarity, on a shared interest, a powerful sense 
of  community  and  linked  fates  in  an  interconnected 
world. 

Much of our focus has been on 2015. In a rapidly 
changing international environment, we must also look 
ahead  beyond  the  deadline  for  the  Goals.  And  so,  in 
response  to  your  request  in  the  outcome  document,  I 
intend  to  initiate  a  process  that  will  result  in  a  post-
2015  framework  for  the  development  work  of  the 
United Nations. I ask that all of you also consider the 
long term even as you intensify your efforts to achieve 
the goals in the next five years. 

summit a great success. 

thank the Secretary-General for his statement. 

speakers for the High-level Plenary Meeting. 

Given  the  lateness  of  the  hour,  I  kindly  remind 
speakers to respect the time limit that has been agreed. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 
Thank  you  again  for  your  role  in  making  this 
We  shall  now  continue  with 
longstanding  work 
the  contrary.  Our 
the  remaining 
42 

10-54527 
Mr.  Boucher
(Organization 
for  Economic  Cooperation 
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  observer  of  the 
and 



Organization 
Development. 
for  Economic 

Cooperation and Development): With five years to go, 
with  famine  and  poverty  still  rampant,  we  face  a 
defining moment for development. Can we learn from 
the past, from both our successes and our failures, and 
improve  on  our  historic  commitment 
to  achieve 
substantial progress by 2015? 
Over  the  past  decade,  hundreds  of  millions  of 

people  have  emerged  from  poverty  to  build  new  lives 
based  on  their  own  energy  and  enterprise.  But  gains 
have been uneven within and across borders. Too many 
mothers and children still die during childbirth. Fragile 
and conflict-ridden States have yet to achieve a single 
Millennium  Development  Goal.  In  parts  of  Africa, 
15 per cent of the children die under the age of five and 
only  one  out  of  three  children  attends  secondary 
school. These children deserve a chance. Their parents 
deserve the tools to give their children a decent future. 

At this moment, the economic crisis, the threat of 
climate  change  and  the  volatility  of  food  prices 
compound the challenge. If we are to achieve our goals 
by 2015, we urgently need to intensify our efforts. We 
need  to  ask: What  can  we  do  better? What  can  we  do 
differently? 

First,  we  need  to  concert  our  efforts  to  provide 
new  economic  opportunities.  Everyone  has  a  stake  in 
the  lives  of  the  poorest  among  us;  everyone  benefits 
from 
for 
Economic  Cooperation  and  Development  (OECD),  we 
pledge  to  welcome  to  our  discussions  all  those  who 
want to enlist economic forces on the side of the poor. 
To  do  that,  developing  countries  must  maintain  the 
pace  and  scope  of  their  far-reaching  political  and 
economic  reforms 
that  have  created  millions  of 
opportunities for trade, jobs and enterprise. Developed 
countries must complement those efforts with stronger 
action  in  key  areas  such  as  taxation,  combating  illicit 
capital  flows,  keeping  markets  open  and  moving 
forward  on  multilateral 
for 
development. 

Each of us can build on our own experience and 
the  experience  of  fellow  countries  in  terms  of  what 
works and what does not. This approach forms the core 
of  the  OECD  raison  d’être:  sharing  best  practices 
among  all  who  want  to  identify  and  implement  better 
their  enrichment.  At 
the  Organization 
trade 
liberalization 
A/65/PV.9
policies  for  better  lives.  We  should  pay  particular 
attention to critical areas like investment and trade and 
mobilizing  domestic 
resources,  advancing  gender 
equality, educating girls and achieving environmentally 
sound growth. 

Secondly,  technical  cooperation  and  financial 
assistance will continue to play a vital role in meeting 
the  needs  of  the  poorest  of  the  poor  and  helping 
Governments  create  the  infrastructure,  education  and 
systems that people need to better their lives. It is vital 
that  developed  countries  meet  their  aid  targets.  We 
cannot  backslide  on  commitments  at  this  critical 
juncture.  We  have  highlighted  some  recent  slippage, 
but  we  also  note  that  assistance  from  developed 
countries  has  grown  by  55  per  cent  over  the  last 
10 years. South-South cooperation is also a vital factor 
now in development. 

Thirdly,  we  need  to  ensure  the  coherence  of  our 
efforts.  In  a  rapidly  changing  international  landscape, 
new donors, philanthropic organizations and innovative 
finance  are  playing  a  growing  role. That  is  good.  But 
as  the  global  aid  system  grows  more  fragmented  and 
complex, we urgently need to improve the coherence of 
all  the  different  programmes  and  policies. The  OECD 
has  been  leading  in  this  regard  through  the  Paris 
Declaration on Aid Effectiveness and the Accra Agenda 
for Action. In Korea next year, we can turn the OECD’s 
fourth  High-Level  Forum  on Aid  Effectiveness  into  a 
key  platform  to  deliver  on  Millennium  Goal  8,  on 
building a global partnership for development. 

We  also  can  improve  the  effectiveness  of  both 
domestic  and  private  investment  by  putting  in  place 
comprehensive  systems  to  prevent,  detect  and  punish 
corruption,  which  steals  from  the  poor  and  victimizes 
the  most  vulnerable. The  OECD  will  continue  to  lead 
in this effort as well. 
The  financial  and  economic  crisis  should  not 

divert  us 
from  our  aid  commitments  or  our 
commitments  to  sound  policy  reforms.  At  the  OECD 
we feel a special responsibility towards the Millennium 
Development Goals, which were born out of our 1996 
International Development Goals, which were meant to 
crystallize 
into 
development  objectives  that  could  be  measured  and 
monitored.  And  measurement  and  monitoring 
is, 
precisely, one of our central responsibilities.  
But  beyond  that,  we  are  committed  to  a  broad 

range  of  efforts,  with  a  broad  range  of  partners,  to 
commitments 
international 
aid 
10-54527 

43 

Mr.  Swing
(International  Organization 
A/65/PV.9 

distil  and  promote  international  best  practices  and  to 
support effective policy based on the experience of our 
current membership and that of the broader community 
of nations. We will work with partners to integrate the 
development agenda into all aspects of our work — for 
example, as we look at finance flows, taxation, private 
sector development, governance and gender issues. 

Only  with  better  coordination,  better  assistance 
and  better  policy  joined  together  can  we  progress 
towards  achieving  the  Goals  by  2015  and  honour  our 
commitment  to  the  world’s  poorest,  who  struggle  so 
hard to make their lives better. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now give the floor to the observer of the International 
Organization for Migration. 
for 

Migration): When the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs)  were  conceived  10  years  ago,  there  was  no 
mention  of  migration.  And  I  think  that  this  in  itself 
tells a story, because at that point migration was not yet 
on 
the  global  scene.  In  fact, 
there  were  only 
150 million migrants at that time.  

Today, at the 10-year mark, there are more people 
on the move than at any other time in recorded history: 
including 
214  million 
12 million 
internal 
migrants —  in  other  words,  a  total  of  one  billion 
people  on  the  move,  or  roughly  one  in  every  seven 
human beings. 

MDGs. Let me share several examples.  

One example is migrant remittances, which touch 
MDGs 1, 2, 4, 5 and 6. Migrant remittances — in other 
words,  the  money  sent  home  —  help  reduce  poverty. 
Migrant  remittances  provide  families  in  countries  of 
origin  with  additional,  often  vital,  income.  Migrant 
remittances  are  directly  linked  to  the  achievement  of 
ending  poverty  and  hunger  —  MDG  1.  The  official 
remittance flows to developing countries last year was 
$316  billion.  That  is  twice  the  totality  of  overseas 
development  aid.  It  is  roughly  equal  to  the  annual 
foreign  direct  investment  and  it  is  equal  to  the  gross 
domestic  product  (GDP)  of  several 
industrialized 
nations.  For  at  least  a  dozen  countries,  migrant 
remittances represent 30 per cent of annual GDP. 
There is another type of remittance called “social 

remittances”. In other words, in addition to the money 
Migration  cuts  across  most,  if  not  all,  of  the 
international  migrants, 
and  740  million 
refugees, 
is 
In 
The 
third 
leading 
example 
to  greater 
that  comes  back,  there  are  also  skills,  knowledge  and 
experience.  These  foster  innovation,  trigger  learning 
processes, build networks and facilitate the transfer of 
knowledge and technology to countries of origin. 

The  second  example  is  the  feminization  of 
migration, which touches directly MDG 3. Women are 
increasingly  migrating  independently  of  family,  or  as 
the  breadwinner,  thereby  playing  a  part  in  MDG  3  — 
promoting  gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of 
women.  Nearly  half  of  the  world’s  migrants  today  are 
women.  Female  migration 
is  challenging  gender 
stereotypes  and 
independence. 
However,  migration  can  also  pose  obstacles  to  the 
achievement of gender equality. Women face an entire 
set of issues: vulnerability along the path to their new 
life and trafficking and smuggling of female migrants, 
as well as the lack of access to health or legal services. 

environmental 
sustainability.  MDG  7  can  serve  as  an  adaptation 
strategy  for  communities  vulnerable  to  the  effects  of 
environmental  degradation. 
several  countries, 
migrants  are  using  the  savings  and  skills  they  have 
acquired  abroad  to  address  environmental  degradation 
in their homeland. 

The  final  example  is  migration  partnerships, 
which  addresses  MDG  8.  The  development  of 
partnerships  through  diaspora  communities  across  the 
globe is fostering development in their home countries 
through  investments  and  knowledge  and  technology 
transfers.  Partnership  is  pivotal  to  developing  more 
accessible formal channels for remittance transfers and 
beneficial trade linkages. 

Let  me  conclude  quickly.  Migration  is  one  of 
humankind’s oldest freedoms. Migration has long been 
the  individual’s  poverty  reduction  strategy.  Migration 
is  a  powerful  demonstration  of  a  person’s  right  to 
development. Migration will continue to influence and 
shape  development  prospects  and  the  MDGs  in  the 
years  ahead.  However,  we  will  need  to  work  closely 
together  to  mitigate  the  potential  negative  effects  of 
migration  on  development,  and  we  will  need  to  work 
together  to  realize  migration’s  full  potential  —  the 
potential  to  advance  human  development  and  the 
MDGs. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French)  I 

now give the floor to the observer of the International 
Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.  
44 

10-54527 
of 
the 
achievement 


Mr.  Gelete  (International  Federation  of  Red 

Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies):  In  the  interest  of 
time  I  will  be  reading  only  a  few  paragraphs  of  my 
presentation,  and  the  full  text  will  be  circulated 
tomorrow. 

The  International  Federation  of  Red  Cross  and 
Red  Crescent  Societies  and  its  186  member  national 
societies  are  fully  committed  to  contribute  effectively 
towards 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  The  International  Federation,  its 
member  national  societies  and  community-based 
volunteers  are  a  unique  bridge  between  Governments, 
civil  society  and  vulnerable  people.  With  their  skills, 
compassion and unrivalled local knowledge, Red Cross 
and  Red  Crescent  volunteers  can  reach  and  transform 
the lives of those most in need, especially those facing 
discrimination and living on the margins of society. 

I  have  been  visiting  many  national  societies  and 
talking  to  their  dedicated  staff  and  volunteers.  I  have 
witnessed  the  strength  of  their  commitment  to  the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
and  I  have  seen  the  important  work  done  at  the 
community 
these 
commitments  within  our  mandate,  experience  and 
expertise, and we will continue to do so. 

We  will  continue  to  strive  to  achieve  excellence 
in our well-known role as the world’s leading actor in 
humanitarian  action  and  disaster  response.  In  2009 
alone,  the  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  reached 
13.5 million  people  in  113  countries  with  our  disaster 
preparedness  and  risk  reduction  programmes.  From 
experience,  we  believe  that  the  professional  estimate 
that  one  dollar  spent  on  risk  reduction  saves  four 
dollars  in  response  is  true.  We  will  also  continue  to 
build  on  our  strengths  in  established  community 
service delivery, and we resolve to do more to promote 
development at the community level by preventing and 
reducing the underlying causes of vulnerability. 

Our world is changing continuously, and we face 
many  entwined  challenges.  Food  insecurity,  disasters, 
climate  change,  poverty  and  rapid  urbanization  are 
today’s major humanitarian challenges, which are also 
impacted by today’s social and economic challenges.  

On the positive side, minds and attitudes are also 
changing. Communication and information technology 
is  having  a  great  influence,  especially  on  the  way 
young  people  think  and  go  about  doing  things,  as  we 
learn  from  our  young  volunteers.  By  utilizing  the 
level.  We  have  delivered  on 
A/65/PV.9
including 
and 
other 
importance 
We  also  attach  great 
to  extend  our  heartfelt 
power  of  communication  and  information  technology 
we can change minds and attitudes and thus overcome 
some  of  the  intractable  barriers  to  progress,  including 
those  that  are  social,  cultural  and  behavioural.  Young 
people  are  leading  the  changes  in  their  communities, 
and we need to empower them. 

Last  but  not  least,  I  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity 
thanks  and 
appreciation for Member States’ continued support and 
confidence  in  the  work  of  the  staff  and  volunteers  of 
the 
International  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent 
Movement  around 
the  world.  We  attach  great 
importance  to  this  unique  and  distinctive  relationship 
between the components of the International Red Cross 
and  Red  Crescent  Movement  and  States. At  the  same 
time,  we  emphasize  that  our  commitment  to  our 
fundamental  principles, 
independence, 
neutrality  and  impartiality,  provides  the  best  available 
means  to  gain  the  confidence  of  all  in  order  to  have 
access to those in need. 

to  our 
partnerships  with  other  humanitarian  actors,  including 
the  United  Nations 
international 
organizations,  non-governmental  organizations  and 
civil  society,  as  well  as  with  the  private  sector.  Such 
partnerships  are  essential  to  address  effectively  the 
needs  of  vulnerable  people  worldwide,  in  the  spirit  of 
working together for humanity. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now give the floor to the observer of the International 
Olympic Committee. 
Ms.  El  Moutawakel  (International  Olympic 

Committee):  On  behalf  of  the  International  Olympic 
Committee  (IOC),  I  thank  the  General  Assembly  and 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for giving the IOC the 
opportunity  to  contribute  more  effectively,  through 
sports, to the important work of the United Nations as a 
Permanent Observer. The Assembly’s decision to grant 
observer  status  to  our  organization  was  a  resounding 
acknowledgement  by  Member  States 
the 
international  community  as  a  whole  of  the  positive 
power of sports. The additional recognition of sports in 
the  Outcome  Document  of  this  summit  (resolution 
65/1) 
is  another  cause  for  our  appreciation  and 
inspiration. 
I am here today to contribute to the discussion on 

the  Millennium 
the  role  of  sports 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  We  are  now  just  five 
in  achieving 
and 
10-54527 

45 

is  still 
long.  The 
A/65/PV.9 

years away from the deadline set by the United Nations 
for  achieving  the  Goals.  Time  is  short  and  the  list  of 
needs 
International  Olympic 
Committee  shares  the  Assembly’s  sense  of  urgency. 
Many  of  the  Committee’s  development  projects  are 
closely  aligned  with  the  MDGs. We  are  working  hard 
to  eradicate  poverty  and  extreme  hunger  by  using 
sports  to  support  community  development  and  school 
food programmes in Africa and Asia. 

In  May,  the  International  Olympic  Committee 
opened the first Olympic Youth Development Centre in 
Zambia. This  innovative  project  addresses  community 
needs  by  combining  sports  with  education  and  health-
care programmes. We are working to achieve universal 
primary education by collaborating with UNESCO and 
other relevant partners to provide education to children 
and  also  to  youth  of  disadvantaged  communities.  We 
are  supporting  values-based  education  in  Africa,  in 
Asia,  in  Latin  America,  in  the  Caribbean  islands  and 
also in Oceania. 

The  International  Olympic  Committee  is  also 
using  sports  to  promote  gender  equality  and  the 
empowerment  of  women  and  girls.  In  this  regard,  we 
congratulate  the  United  Nations  for  its  decision  to 
establish  the  entity  UN  Women.  We  look  forward  to 
working  closely  with  the  organization  as  soon  as  it  is 
up  and  running.  The  goal  of  gender  equality  in  and 
through sports is included in the Olympic Charter, the 
Olympic  Movement’s  guiding  document.  With  the 
addition  of  more  women’s  events  to  the  Olympic 
programme,  women  will  participate  in  every  sport  at 
the  next  Olympic  Games,  to  be  held  in  London  in 
2012. 
is 

contributing, 
the  fight  against  HIV/AIDS  and 
malaria,  as  well  as  other,  non-communicable  diseases, 
through extensive education programmes in partnership 
Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on 
with 
HIV/AIDS, 
the  World  Health  Organization, 
the 
International  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Movement 
and other partners from civil society. 

We  are  also  working  to  ensure  environmental 
sustainability by making sustainability an integral part 
of  the  planning  process  for  the  Olympic  Games  and 
other  sports  activities.  In  1994  International  Olympic 
Committee adopted the environment as the third pillar 
of  the  Olympic  Movement,  alongside  sports  and 
International  Olympic  Committee 
The 
the 
to 
culture. The Committee is proud to be part of a global 
partnership for development.  

The  Olympic  Movement  is  composed  of  the 
International  Olympic  Committee,  the  International 
and  National  Sport  Federations  and  the  205  National 
Olympic Committees. They are all using the power of 
sports  to  promote  the  MDGs  in  countries  across  the 
world  and  they  cooperate  to  that  end  with  all  sectors, 
including  Governments,  United  Nations  agencies, 
funds and programmes, non-governmental organizations, 
the business community and civil society at large. 

While we indeed are doing our best, we are fully 
aware  that  more  must  and  can  be  done.  All  of  us  in 
sports  can  and  must  do  more. This  is  a  clarion  call  to 
sports organizations and to the billions of sportspersons 
and  their  supporters  and  fans  throughout  the  world  to 
play their part fully. 

As  it  has  done  for  more  than  a  century  now,  the 
International  Olympic  Committee,  and  the  Olympic 
Movement at large, will continue to look for new ways 
to use the power of sports to bring people together, to 
inspire  them  to  be  the  best  they  can  be,  to  encourage 
healthy  lifestyles,  to  foster  peace,  to  promote  values-
based education — in short, to make better citizens of 
our youth and the world a better place for all of us. 

Sport  cannot  solve  all  of  the  world’s  problems, 
but it can help this honourable institution in its mission 
to serve and to save humanity. I thank the Assembly for 
advancing  the  causes  of  peace,  development  and 
human  rights  throughout  the  world.  Thank  you  for 
recognizing  the  importance  of  sports  in  achieving  the 
MDGs  and  for  giving  sports 
to 
contribute to this noble agenda. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now give the floor to the observer for the International 
Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance.  
for 
Institute 

Democracy and Electoral Assistance): The Millennium 
Declaration  (resolution  55/2)  affirms  that  the  United 
Nations will spare no effort to promote democracy. For 
the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral 
Assistance 
the  only 
intergovernmental organization with a specific mandate 
to  support  democracy  worldwide,  it  is  significant  that 
this world body draws the link between democracy and 
development. 
the  opportunity 
Mr.  Helgesen
(International 
International 
(IDEA), 
as 
46 

10-54527 
that 
link 
The  rationale  for 



is  evident.  For 
democracy  to  be  genuinely  sustainable,  it  must  be 
owned and led by those whose development is at stake. 
Profound  development,  like  democracy,  can  only  be 
driven from within and below. For that to happen there 
is a need for open, inclusive, accountable structures for 
participation in society. 

Democracy  serves  the  cause  of  development 
because  it  reinforces  the  social  contract  between 
citizens  and  decision-makers.  It  provides  for  the 
necessary  democratic  ownership  of  the  development 
process.  A  critical  but  often  weak  link  in  ensuring 
democratic  ownership  is  certain  key  political  actors, 
notably  political  parties  and  parliaments.  Too  often 
they  fail  in  their  responsibility  to  capture  citizens’ 
needs and aspirations and transform them into policies 
that can deliver on development. Too often they fail in 
their  responsibility  to  hold  the  executive  to  account. 
And  too  often  the  international  community  fails  in  its 
responsibility  to  support  the  strengthening  of  such 
democratic  accountability  processes  through  existing 
development cooperation frameworks. 

the 
the  next  years  of  efforts 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  are  to  be 
more  successful,  sustaining  aid  levels  is  not  enough. 
Getting  out  of  the  global  economic  crisis  is  also  not 
enough. If development is to be truly nationally owned, 
it 
responsive  national  democratic 
politics.  Responsive  politics  must  include  increased 
political participation of women. One of the intolerable 
democratic  deficits  worldwide  that  is  also  a  barrier  to 
human  development  is  the  continuing  gross  under-
representation of women in politics. Fifteen years after 
from the Beijing target of 30 per cent representation by 
women in parliaments, only 24 parliaments worldwide 
have reached that target. 

Democratic principles of participation, inclusion, 
regular  free  and  fair  elections  and  an  independent 
judiciary  are  more  likely  to  bring  about  development 
gains  than  other  systems  of  governance.  Democratic 
participation  supports  development  in  three  ways. 
First,  elections  empower  people  to  articulate  their 
interests.  In  elections  governments  will  be  held 
accountable  if  they  do  not  attend  to  the  needs  of  the 
poor. Secondly, democracy requires freedom of speech 
transfer  of 
and  association  and 
information 
the  needs, 
the  poor.  Thirdly, 
aspirations  and  preferences  of 
in 
democratic  Governments  are  more  efficient 
facilitates 
the  Government  about 
requires  more 
to  attain 
thus 
If 
to 
A/65/PV.9
the 
to  support 
providing public goods such as education, health care, 
job  training,  a  clean  environment  and,  most  critically, 
the  rule  of  law.  That  is  why  democracy  is  the  most 
desired  and  desirable  form  of  governance.  Democracy 
is  good  for  development.  The  opposite  is  also  true: 
development is good for democracy. 

In International IDEA’s experience it is critically 
important 
integrity  of  electoral 
processes,  the  centrality  of  parliaments  and  political 
parties,  and 
the  effectiveness  of  sector-specific 
democratic  dialogue  for  making  sure  that  democracy 
delivers  on  key  areas  of  human  development  such  as 
health, education or community security. 
Our  work  also  shows  that  the  rich  democracy-

building  experiences  from 
the  global  South  can 
contribute to a better understanding of the relationship 
between  the  quality  of  democracy  over  time  and 
country-level performance on the MDGs. 
In  conclusion,  I  reiterate  International  IDEA’s 

commitment  to  contributing  to  the  achievement  of  the 
MDGs,  in  partnership  with  national,  regional  and 
global  actors  and  to  deepen  our  strategic  partnership 
with the United Nations in that endeavour. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now give the floor to the observer of the International 
Organization of la Francophonie. 
Mr.  Benessahraoui  (International  Organization 

in  French):  Since 
of 
la  Francophonie) 
September  2000,  the  International  Organization  of  la 
Francophonie 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  the  guiding  principle  of 
the  actions  of  all  its  missions.  Since  then  it  has 
contributed,  to  the  extent  that  its  means  allow,  to 
achieving  the  Goals  with  an  approach  that  provides 
added  value  and  effective  solidarity.  That  approach  is 
based  on  assisting  member  countries, 
including 
through sharing its rich wealth of experiences and good 
practices displayed in all four corners of our world. 

In  working  to  achieve  the  MDGs,  the  OIF  is 
working  at  the  same  time  for  the  emergence  of  a 
sustainable institutional and political context based on 
a 
solidarity  among  States, 
especially between the North and the South, solidarity 
among current generations within States, and solidarity 
everywhere towards future generations.  
All told, the approach of la Francophonie is part 

of a vision that takes into account the world’s diversity. 
(OIF)  has  made 
solidarity: 
tripartite 
(spoke 
10-54527 

47 

in 
has 
been 
terms 
There 
progress 
A/65/PV.9 

It is based on a dialogue of cultures and recognizes that 
culture  is  a  crucial  component  of  human  development 
and  represents  a  source  of  identity,  innovation  and 
creativity for individuals and communities. It is also a 
factor for reconciliation and social cohesion.  

of 
implementing several MDGs in the francophone sphere 
and elsewhere in the developing world. Some countries 
are  on  the  right  path  to  achieve  at  least  some  of  the 
MDGs  by  the  2015  deadline.  However,  it  must  be 
noted  that  despite  efforts  made  and  the  tangible 
progress  noted,  achieving  the  MDGs  remains  out  of 
reach in many regions, particularly in Africa. The road 
before us is long if we  are to ensure that every single 
child in the human family enjoys his fundamental right 
to education and health care.  

Much  remains  to  be  done,  be  it  with  regard  to 
education  and  health  care  for  all  or  to  eradicating 
poverty;  whether  it  concerns  gender  equality  or,  more 
broadly,  the  emergence  of  a  more  fertile  global 
partnership  that  is  more  resolutely  based  in  solidarity, 
with  renewed  planetary  governance  that  is  fairer  and 
more democratic.  

More  than  ever,  these  worrying  observations 
require the collective, focused and ongoing attention of 
the  international  community  in  order  to  renew  and 
increase  the  global  efforts  being  made  in  terms  of 
official  development  assistance,  and 
to  find  and 
mobilize additional resources and innovative financing 
commensurate  with  a  challenge  that  imperils  the  very 
survival of an entire branch of the human family.  

Finally, the review of the MDGs two-thirds of the 
way to their deadline highlights the need to find ways 
and  means  to  improve  synchronization  of  actions, 
targets and goals, and to adapt them to the diversity of 
situations and developments. With these improvements, 
and  by  taking  into  consideration  cultural  factors  and 
access  to  energy,  the  MDGs  must  continue  to  be  a 
vector  for  and  a  common  thread  of  the  renewed 
commitment  of 
to 
combating poverty and giving specific and measurable 
meaning to solidarity with the most disadvantaged.  
The  renewal  of  the  international  commitment, 

which la Francophonie vigorously urges, is particularly 
necessary 
financial, 
economic,  energy  and  food  crisis  that  has  shaken  the 
world  for  the  past  three  years  threatens  to  destroy  the 
achievements  that  have  been  made  since  2000.  The 
international  community 
the  multifaceted 
because 
the 
The 
result, 
serious 
if  nothing 
crisis also threatens to destroy the praiseworthy efforts 
of the less developed countries, which will suffer, still 
more than others, the effects of the crisis. 
On  the  other  hand,  the  environmental  crisis, 

which  will  certainly  and 
irreversibly  exacerbate 
climate  change  and  the  erosion  of  biodiversity,  is 
another source of concern, whose multiple impacts will 
ultimately 
is  done 
everywhere,  in  the  unfair  aggravation  of  poverty,  in 
particular  in  developing  countries.  This  worrisome 
context therefore requires more commitment and more 
boldness  in  consolidating  governance,  both  at  the 
national and the international levels. 

is 
necessary;  the  need  for  regulation  is  more  urgent  and 
imperative  than  ever.  While  the  establishment  of  the 
Group of Twenty can be considered to be progress with 
respect to the Group of Eight, much remains to be done 
to  strengthen  cooperation  on  the  rules  governing  the 
world  economy,  allowing  everyone  to  become  active 
partners in an improved form of shared Government. 
In  a  word,  we  must  ensure  that  all  our  efforts 

to 
converge  for  managed  globalization  designed 
sustainably  inaugurate  an  era  of  responsibility  and 
shared prosperity. As our Secretary General, Mr. Abdou 
Diouf, has affirmed,  

emergence  of  global  governance 
“by  calling  on  the  international  community  to 
implement its commitments, la Francophonie also 
shows its own determination to work along these 
lines, as has been proved already by the desire of 
its Heads of State and Government to address this 
question  at 
la 
Francophonie, which will take place next 22 to 24 
October in Montreux, Switzerland”. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now give the floor to the observer of the International 
Union for the Conservation of Nature. 
Ms. Marton-Lefèvre (International Union for the 

Conservation  of  Nature):  I  have  the  privilege  of 
representing the world’s oldest and largest international 
conservation network, and speak on behalf of its 1,200 
members  —  big  and  small,  sovereign  States  and  non-
governmental organizations — which are all united by 
a  common  vision  of  a  just  world  that  values  and 
conserves nature. 

made  an  unprecedented  commitment 
At  the  turn  of  the  millennium,  world  leaders 
to  ensuring 
summit  of 
thirteenth 
the 
48 

10-54527 
in 
framework 


environmental sustainability and to making sustainable 
development  an  overarching 
for  all 
development  efforts.  Participants  may  ask  themselves 
what  could  possibly  be  the  connection  between  a 
nature  conservation  organization  and  the  global  quest 
for  economic  growth  and  social  progress  that  are 
enshrined 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). 

The  International  Union  for  the  Conservation  of 
Nature  (IUCN)  has  been  working  on  the  development 
paradigm  for  many  years,  especially  since  our  1980 
World  Conservation  Strategy,  which  stressed 
the 
interdependence of conservation and development, thus 
being the first to give currency to the term “sustainable 
development”. 

The concept is now commonplace, but it seems as 
though,  10  years  after  nearly  200  nations  agreed  to 
integrate  environmental  sustainability  into  all  major 
policy  decisions,  we  are  still  trying  to  make  the  case 
for  it  rather  than  getting  on  with  the  actual  task  at 
hand.  IUCN  echoes  the  concerns  of  many  in  this  Hall 
that, despite progress made in some areas and in some 
regions, the achievement of MDG 7 — and the MDGs 
overall — may be compromised. 

to  make  a  difference. 
Groundbreaking  research  and  practical  experience  on 
the  ground  tell  us  that  the  key  to  not  just  one  but 
several  MDGs  may  well  be  found  in  rethinking  the 
relationship  between  biodiversity,  ecosystems  —  or 
simply what nature provides — and human well-being. 

Food  security  and  the  livelihoods  of  the  poor 
directly depend on functioning ecosystems like forests, 
mangroves  and  coastal  areas.  Global  water  and 
sanitation  targets  can  be  achieved  only  by  sustaining 
ecosystems that ensure the supply of clear, safe water, 
whilst  improved  management  of  local  watersheds  can 
reduce child deaths from water-borne diseases.  

By  providing  sustainable  energy  alternatives  we 
can  reduce  the  time  that  children,  especially  girls, 
spend  collecting 
studying. 
Empowering  women  to  manage  natural  resources 
sustainably  can  contribute  to  improving  food  safety 
and  security,  as  would  alleviating  the  hardships  of 
other  vulnerable  groups,  especially  children  and 
indigenous peoples. 

Climate  change,  recognized  as  a  threat  and 
challenge for achieving development, is closely linked 
We  have  five  years 
instead  of 
firewood 
A/65/PV.9
commercially 
to  the  need  for  robust  ecosystems.  By  acknowledging 
the  role  of  healthy  nature  in  extreme  events  such  as 
droughts  and  floods,  we  improve  our  resilience  and 
capacity  to  adapt  to  climate  change.  In  other  words, 
investing in nature is investing in development and, at 
the  same  time,  investing  in  the  achievement  of  the 
MDGs. 

The  landmark  study  entitled  “The  Economics  of 
Ecosystems and Biodiversity” has gone  a long way in 
helping us understand the contribution of nature to our 
well-being and put it in language that is understood by 
economists,  business  people,  politicians  and  citizens 
worldwide.  For  example,  tropical  forests  that  provide 
livelihoods  for  over  1  billion  of  the  world’s  poorest 
people  are  being  lost  at  an  alarming  rate.  In  addition, 
deforestation  accounts  for  about  17  per  cent  of 
greenhouse  gas  emissions,  and  halting  deforestation 
would  save  some  $3.7  trillion  in  terms  of  avoided 
greenhouse  gas  emissions.  Fish  provides  the  main 
source of protein for more than one-sixth of humanity. 
By  redirecting  the  financial  flows  that  currently  drive 
most 
to 
overexploitation, we could improve the performance of 
global  fisheries  by  an  estimated  $50  billion  annually. 
“The  Economics  of  Ecosystems  and  Biodiversity”  has 
many, many more examples of this type. 
requires 

The 
by 
refocusing 
Governments  and  other  actors,  including  civil  society 
and the private sector. The opportunity is not lost, but a 
different 
environmental 
sustainability is at the heart of development efforts, is 
desperately needed if we are to meet our commitments 
in five years’ time. Let us bring to the world a renewed 
leadership  to  realize  sustainable  development  —  for 
people, for nature and for the planet, our unique home. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now  give  the  floor  to  the  observer  of  the  Asian 
Development Bank. 
Mr.  Kuroda  (Asian  Development  Bank):  The 

Asian  and  Pacific  region  encompasses  nearly  three-
fifths  of  humankind.  No  global  effort  to  achieve  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  will  succeed 
unless our region succeeds. 

than  500  million  people  having 
overcome  poverty  since  1990,  the  region’s  target  for 
reducing extreme income poverty is in sight. However, 
as home to two-thirds of the world’s poor, it still faces 
achievement  of 
efforts  made 
the  MDGs 
With  more 
and 
redoubling 
in  which 
valuable 
fish 
stocks 
approach, 
10-54527 

49 
The  MDGs  represent  a  global  compact 
A/65/PV.9 

enormous  challenges.  Almost  2  billion  people  in  the 
region  still  live  without  basic  sanitation,  and  nearly 
half  a  billion  without  safe  drinking  water.  Infant 
mortality  in  some  countries  is  more  than  10  times 
higher  than  in  developed  nations.  In  South  Asia, 
illiteracy  rates  are  among  the  highest  in  the  world, 
slum-dwellers  comprise  40  per  cent  of  the  urban 
population,  and  women  are  still  deprived  of  the 
benefits of growth. 

The region’s  environment  faces daunting threats, 
including  a  decline  in  forest  cover  and  the  steady  rise 
of  greenhouse  gas  emissions.  Recent  catastrophic 
floods  that  have  brought  misery  to  millions  highlight 
the  need  for  stronger  measures  to  counter  climate-
related  vulnerabilities  and  better  adapt  to  climate 
change. 

to 
eradicate  these  deprivations  and  threats,  and  we  must 
all  do  our  part.  National  Governments  must  make 
growth  more  inclusive.  They  must  provide  better 
access to basic services and engage the private sector, 
civil  society,  and  communities  in  order  to  help  ensure 
better  service  delivery.  They  must  expand  basic 
infrastructure to provide access to electricity, roads and 
other  essential  services  so  that  the  poor  can  access 
health care, education and economic opportunities. And 
they must move quickly towards low-carbon growth. 

At  the  regional  level,  traditional  donors  and 
newly  emerging  ones  alike  can  do  more  to  help  their 
regional 
less-developed 
cooperation 
in 
investment, 
knowledge and technology can also help bridge gaps in 
resources  and  capacities.  While  the  region  overall  is 
progressing,  many  countries  within  Asia  and  the 
Pacific  are  falling  behind.  Linking  those  worse-off 
countries  to  larger  subregional  and  regional  markets 
will  spur  faster  growth,  create  economic  opportunities 
and facilitate the sharing of regional resources, such as 
energy and water. 
is 

committed 
regional  and  global 
partnerships  to  achieve  the  MDGs.  We  are  increasing 
our support for roads, electricity, water, sanitation and 
education.  We  have  established  dedicated  funds  to 
promote environmentally sustainable growth and tackle 
climate  change.  Our  financing  for  clean  energy  has 
grown  to  more  than  $1  billion  a  year,  and  we  plan  to 
double  that  to  more  than  $2  billion  per  year  by  2013. 
neighbours.  Expanding 
the  areas  of 
trade, 
The  Asian  Development  Bank 
(ADB) 
to  strengthening 

ADB’s  projects  in  the  areas  of  water  and  sanitation 
have  benefited  more  than  130  million  people  in  the 
past  five  years,  and  we  plan  to  further  increase  our 
operations.  Our  school 
improvement  projects  are 
expected  to  benefit  more  than  22  million  students  in 
the next three years, and we also intend to scale up our 
assistance for education, which is one of our core areas 
of operation. 

The  Asian  and  Pacific  region  represents  the 
world’s  best  help  for  achieving  the  MDGs,  but  it 
cannot do it alone. The international community must, 
above  all,  live  up  to  the  commitment  of  the  historic 
Millennium Declaration of 2000 (resolution 55/2). The 
Declaration  promised  a  better  life  to  millions  of  poor 
people  in  the Asian  and  Pacific  region  and  across  the 
globe.  Our  collective  action  today  can  make  that 
promise a reality. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now  give  the  floor  to  the  observer  of  the  Sovereign 
Military Order of Malta. 
Mr. Shafer (Sovereign Military Order of Malta): 

The  Sovereign  Hospitaller  Military  Order  of  Malta 
appreciates  the  opportunity  to  address  this  High-level 
Plenary  Meeting,  and  I  shall  be  very  brief. The  Order 
would  also  like  to  congratulate  the  Secretary-General 
and  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  on  their 
wise  guidance  in  organizing  this  important  high-level 
event  and  for  bringing  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs) directly into the spotlight that shines on 
the United Nations every September. 
The Order has continued to pledge and strengthen 

our  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations  on  these 
issues,  particularly 
the  fields  of  humanitarian 
assistance  and  sustainable  development,  and  we 
reiterate  that  pledge  today.  The  Order  considers  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  to  be  an  example  of 
the  preferential  option  for  the  poor  that  we  firmly 
believe  in.  Combating  poverty,  disease  and  suffering, 
regardless  of  race,  religion  or  nationality,  has  been  at 
the  heart  of  the  Order’s  activities  for  900  years.  The 
Order’s 13,000 members, 80,000 permanent volunteers 
and  professional  medical  staff,  and  20,000  doctors, 
nurses  and  stretcher-bearers  make  up  an  exceptional 
network working in 120 countries. 

With respect to Goal 1, the Order is saddened by 
the  dire  situation  of  more  than  1  billion  people  living 
in  extreme  poverty  and  hunger  and  by  the  inequities 
between  and  within  countries.  This  is  a  scandal  to 
in 
10-54527 
50 

diarrhoea,  malaria,  measles 


humankind  and  one  of  the  most  significant  challenges 
facing  the  world  today.  Extreme  poverty  and  hunger 
are  the  cause,  symptoms  and  effects  of  the  issues  the 
MDGs  address,  and  progress  on  this  Goal  is  most 
crucial. 

I would also like to state that, in our view, Goals 
4, 5 and 6 are interconnected on every level. Failure on 
any  one  of  them  is  likely  to  endanger  progress  on 
others. It is an inexcusable reality that five diseases — 
pneumonia, 
and 
HIV/AIDS —  account  for  half  the  deaths  of  children 
under  five.  Low-cost  prevention  and  treatment  could 
save most of these children. 

I should also point, however, to bright spots. The 
Order’s Holy Family Maternity Hospital in Bethlehem 
will  soon  be  delivering  its  50,000th  baby.  In  the  20 
years since its first delivery, the Holy Family Hospital 
has  gone  from  1,000  births  annually  to  more  than 
4,000.  It  is  the  only  hospital  of  its  kind  in  the  West 
Bank.  Its  intensive  care  unit  is  the  only  one  in  the 
entire  region.  The  hospital  has  facilitated  Israeli-
Palestinian  cooperation  in  the  medical  field,  and  the 
Palestinian Ministry of Health has designated the Holy 
Family Hospital as a training centre for young doctors. 

We also immediately expanded our hospital in the 
North of Haiti when the horrible earthquake occurred. 
We added more than 400 beds, and helicopters brought 
many  of  the  worst  injured  people  there  from  Port-au-
Prince.  Our  planes  left  Cologne  the  day  after  the 
earthquake  and  landed,  bringing  German  and  Swiss 
doctors and supplies for 50,000 people. I should like to 
conclude by saying that without peace the development 
of  peoples  will  never  come  about  just  as  without 
development 
there  will  never  be  peace.  And  I 
congratulate you all for bringing these issues before us 
today. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now  give  the  floor  to  the  observer  of  the  Partners  in 
Population and Development. 
and 
(Partners 

Development):  Thank  you  very  much,  Sir,  for  giving 
me the opportunity to make a few comments on behalf 
of  the  Partners  in  Population  and  Development  (PPD) 
at  this  landmark  High-level  Plenary  Meeting.  Because 
of time constraints, I will not read out the whole of my 
prepared statement. 
Mr.  Rao
Population 
in 
A/65/PV.9
As 
an 
training, 
Partners 
in  Population 
organization 
intergovernmental 
knowledge-sharing 

of 
24 developing countries committed to the promotion of 
South-South cooperation in the field of population and 
development,  PPD  has  been  actively  promoting  the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs) and the goals of the International Conference 
on  Population  and  Development  (ICPD),  especially  in 
its  member  countries.  A  number  of 
international 
organizations  and  foundations,  including  the  United 
Nations Population Fund (UNFPA), continue to support 
the  activities  of  PPD,  and,  on  this  occasion,  the  PPD 
would  like  to  put  on  record  its  appreciation  for  the 
Fund’s continued collaboration and support. 

and  Development 
recognizes  that  all  the  MDGs  are  interlinked,  thereby 
facilitating  an  integrated  and  comprehensive  approach 
to achieving the goals, as many have noted. Bearing in 
mind that it is a networking and partnership institution, 
PPD  is,  in  line  with  its  mandate,  encouraging  and 
supporting  activities  in  the  programme  priority  areas 
substantive  areas  by  focusing  on  capacity-building 
through 
through 
documenting and disseminating innovative practices in 
population  and 
information 
exchange,  and  advocacy  for  population,  reproductive 
health and development. 

Partners  in  Population  and  Development  would 
like  to  draw  attention,  as  others  have  done  at  this 
Meeting,  to  the  slow  rate  of  progress  in  such  areas  as 
improving  maternal  and  reproductive  health  and 
reducing  maternal  mortality,  MDG  5,  and  advancing 
gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of  women  and 
girls, MDG 3. At the same time, PPD notes with great 
satisfaction  the  renewed  interest  shown  by  Member 
States  in  maternal  health  and  family  planning  as 
evidenced by the discussions at the last meeting of the 
Group  of  Eight  in  Canada  and  at  the  African  Union 
Summit,  which  took  place  in  July  of  this  year  in 
Kampala.  Likewise,  the  Secretary-General’s  Global 
Strategy  on  Women’s  and  Children’s  Health  is  most 
timely and should be commended. Given that maternal 
mortality  rates  are  still  high,  however,  a  concerted 
effort is required if accelerated progress on the relevant 
Goal  is  to  be  achieved  by  2015.  In  this  regard,  PPD 
would like to reiterate the recommendations contained 
family  planning, 
in 
the  outcome  document  on 
emergency  obstetric  care  and 
related 
services. 
However,  PPD  notes  with  deep  concern  that  the 
funding for family planning is lower today than it was 
reproductive  health, 
10-54527 

51 
indicates 
that 
first-rate 
implications 
it  will  have  serious 
through  South-South  and 
their  part  since  1994,  when 
A/65/PV.9 

in 1995. As UNFPA has cautioned, if that trend is not 
reversed, 
for 
countries’  abilities  to  address  unmet  needs  for  family 
planning  and  reproductive  health.  Urgent  action  is 
required in this regard. 

In  the  context  of  achieving  the  MDGs  and  the 
ICPD goals, the role of South-South cooperation needs 
to be highlighted. The Ministerial Meeting of the high-
level  segment  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  in 
July of this year highlighted the growing importance of 
South-South  cooperation  and  noted  that  it  currently 
accounts  for  around  10  per  cent  of  all  development 
cooperation. 
Partners  in  Population  and  Development  have 

been  doing 
it  was 
established  at  the  time  of  the  ICPD  in  Cairo.  PPD 
experience 
technical 
capabilities  exist  in  the  population  and  reproductive 
health  field  in  many  developing  countries  and  greater 
efforts  should  be  made  to  fully  capitalize  on  such 
capabilities 
triangular 
cooperation.  For  example,  the  Governments  of  Egypt, 
Morocco and India have offered long-term fellowships 
and  China  and  South  Africa  are  offering  short-term 
fellowships  to  train  population,  family  planning  and 
health  experts.  The  Government  of  Bangladesh 
continues to host and support the secretariat of the PPD 
in  Dhaka.  In  addition,  PPD  member  countries  have 
built  a  network  of  world-class  institutions  that  can 
provide  a  whole  range  of  training,  research  and 
technical support opportunities. 

In closing, PPD would like to express its fervent 
hope that the great potential that exists for South-South 
cooperation  in  many  developing  countries  will  be 
utilized  and  play  an  enhanced  and  critical  role  in 
contributing  to  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  by  2015,  and, 
to 
sustainable development and international cooperation. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now give the floor to the observer of the Parliamentary 
Assembly of the Mediterranean. 
Mr.  Amoruso  (Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the 

Mediterranean) (spoke in Italian; English text provided 
by  the  delegation):  It  is  with  great  pride  that  the 
Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the  Mediterranean  (PAM) 
participates today in the High-level Plenary Meeting on 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs), 
exercising for the first time its observer status, which it 
indeed, 

obtained  last  December  at  the  sixty-fourth  session  of 
the General Assembly. Established in 2006 after some 
20  years  of  collaboration  among 
the  countries 
bordering the Mediterranean Sea, under the aegis of the 
Inter-Parliamentary  Union,  the  Parliamentary  Assembly 
of the Mediterranean now  has 25 member parliaments 
from  around  the  Mediterranean,  whose  joint  hope  for 
the Mediterranean is to improve the quality of life for 
some,  to  preserve  a  way  of  living  for  others,  and  to 
ensure the peaceful coexistence of all in a region that is 
prosperous and stable. 

Security-related political concerns and economic, 
social  and  environmental  issues  are  crucial  for  our 
Assembly,  which  has  placed  the  human  dimension  at 
the  heart  of  its  concerns.  Achieving  the  MDGs  is  a 
global  endeavour  bolstered  by  one  of 
the  most 
ambitious  programmes  developed  by  humanity,  to 
which  the  parliamentarians  of  the  Mediterranean  have 
decided  to  devote  their  steadfast  dedication.  The 
various aspects of poverty and suffering can be clearly 
seen in our region. Within the region, there are widely 
differing  levels  of  development,  which  could  threaten 
regional  stability  and  trigger  population  shifts  or 
conflict. The region must therefore step up its efforts in 
support of the attainment of the eight MDGs.  

Ten  years  after  the  Millennium  Summit,  a  great 
deal  of  progress  has  been  seen  in  our  region.  But  it 
varies widely across the region, and a great deal more 
effort  is  still  needed.  While  official  development 
assistance to the Mediterranean countries has increased 
considerably, 
some 
countries seem unlikely to be able to achieve the Goals 
set for 2015 unless additional efforts are made. 

The economic crisis, which is often invoked as an 
excuse,  cannot  be  taken  as  a  valid  justification  for 
failing  to  seize  the  opportunity  before  us  to  help  the 
poorest populations on the required scale and eradicate 
extreme poverty. 

The  American  economist  Jeffrey  Sachs  recently 
highlighted the gaps that must be bridged to attain the 
Millennium Development Goals. I would like to focus 
on  one  of  them  that  is  still  of  great  concern  in  our 
region:  access  to  drinking  water  and  basic  sanitation. 
Just to mention one figure, the Mediterranean accounts 
for 60 per  cent of the world’s water-poor populations, 
with access to less than one thousand cubic metres per 
person  per  year.  Water  management  here  has  a 
significant  impact  on  life,  health,  agriculture,  energy 
inadequate.  And 
remains 
it 
52 

10-54527 


production, transportation and, hence, on the economy, 
the environment and biodiversity. 

Mindful  that  our  region  must  seriously  address 
the  problem  of  collective  water  management,  the 
Parliamentary Assembly resolved in 2008 to publish an 
annual  report  on  water  in  the  Mediterranean.  Its 
resolution on water was adopted unanimously in 2009 
at  its  meeting  in  Istanbul.  It  specifically  requires 
member Parliaments to take action to ensure as soon as 
possible that the right of access to water by all may be 
recognized as an essential human right. 

We  are  very  proud  to  note  that  last  July  the 
General Assembly adopted resolution 64/292, declaring 
that  the  right  to  safe  and  clean  drinking  water  and 
sanitation is a human right that is essential for the full 
enjoyment  of the  right to life. The PAM congratulates 
the  General Assembly  on  this  historic  decision,  which 
makes it possible to complete one stage leading to the 
attainment of the Millennium Goals. 

However, this stage is only theoretical and PAM’s 
concerns remain unchanged. By emphasizing water and 
access  to  clean  water  today,  I  am  solemnly  requesting 
in 
the 
Mediterranean  that  this  historic  resolution  not  be 
allowed to remain a dead letter, but will, rather, lead to 
the establishment of tangible rights, making it possible 
for  several  hundreds  of  millions  of  people  to  truly 
improve  their  living  conditions. The  Goals  provide  us 
with  a  unique  opportunity  to  achieve  this  ambition  by 
2015. 
We, as Parliamentarians, are ready to use all our 

powers to legislate, oversee our executives and vote on 
budgets  to  ensure  that  this  is  achieved  in  our  region, 
thereby underpinning the efforts being deployed by the 
United Nations. 

now  give 
to 
Commonwealth Secretariat. 
Mr.  Smith  (Commonwealth  Secretariat):  The 

Commonwealth is honoured to make a statement at this 
High-level  United  Nations  General Assembly  Meeting 
to review the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 

The Commonwealth is a voluntary association of 
54 countries on five continents. We account for a third 
of the world’s population, a quarter of its countries and 
a  fifth  of  its  trade.  We  are  rich  and  poor,  large  and 
small — diverse countries with varied peoples aspiring 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 
the 
the  Parliamentarians  of 
the  observer  of 
the  name  of 
the 
floor 
A/65/PV.9
from 
the  achieving  of 
and  underpin  development 
to  the  shared  goals  of  freedoms  and  rights  which 
emanate 
and 
democracy. 
And  with  our  membership  containing  16  least 

in  sub-Saharan 
developed  countries,  19  countries 
Africa,  32  small  States, 
the 
Millennium Development Goals is an imperative for all 
Commonwealth citizens. 

The  Commonwealth’s  commitment  to  the  MDGs 
is  deep.  The  MDGs  embody  the  fundamental  rights 
which  underpin  our  association.  They  provide  an 
essential  guiding  light  for  the  Commonwealth’s  work 
among its members. 

Since  2000,  when  the  international  community 
embarked  on  this  unique  human  endeavour,  many 
countries in the Commonwealth have made significant 
progress.  The  incidence  of  tuberculosis  has  fallen  in 
most  Commonwealth  developing  States,  rates  of 
primary  education  have  risen  significantly  in  a  large 
number  of  Commonwealth  countries,  especially  in 
sub-Saharan  Africa.  Two  thirds  of  Commonwealth 
developing  countries  have  already  eliminated  gender 
disparities in primary and secondary education. 

However,  it  is  also  clear  that  looking  across  the 
Commonwealth as a whole, much remains to be done. 
To  illustrate:  there  are  20  million  people  in  the 
Commonwealth living with HIV. In addition, two thirds 
of  all  maternal  deaths  take  place  in  Commonwealth 
countries. 

Time  is  now  short  to  attain  the  MDGs.  Current 
circumstances  demand  now  more  than  ever  that  the 
flame that was lit in 2000 be kept alive. We must now 
redouble  our  efforts  to  ensure  that  the  MDGs  are 
achieved  and  that  this  takes  place  within  the  agreed 
timeframe. 

In the Commonwealth, our Heads of Government 
and Ministers, especially those in health, education and 
women’s  affairs,  have  looked  hard  at  the  challenges 
our  countries  face  in  meeting  the  MDGs.  They  have 
highlighted  the  need  for  action  in  a  number  of  areas, 
four of which I will now specifically draw attention to 
and which are also reflected in the outcome document. 
First,  there  is  a  need  for  increased  levels  of 

development 
finance.  With  global  pressure  on 
development  budgets,  there  is  urgent  need  for  the 
global  community  and  its  members  to  consider  and 
10-54527 

53 
to 
conclusion 
A/65/PV.9 

implement new, innovative mechanisms for generating 
development finance. 

Secondly,  a  new  emphasis  is  needed  on  the  role 
of women in development. Both Commonwealth health 
ministers  and  women’s  affairs  ministers  stressed  the 
urgency of addressing shortcomings in maternal health 
provision. More midwives are desperately needed. But 
women  are  also  important  economic  agents.  As  the 
women’s affairs ministers have emphasized, they need 
new  and  innovative  ways  to  be  supported  as  wealth 
creators if the MDGs are to be met. 

Thirdly,  trade  is  well  recognized  as  essential  to 
support  economic  growth  and  promote  poverty 
reduction.  The  will  must  be  found  to  deliver  a  fair, 
development-oriented 
the  DOHA 
Development  Round.  Regional  and  other 
trading 
arrangements must be pursued and concluded on bases 
that strengthen productive capacity and improve access 
to markets, especially for women, youth entrepreneurs 
and small business owners. 
Fourthly,  new  and  innovative  partnerships  are 

essential 
the 
Commonwealth,  we  champion  the  linking  together  of 
our governmental, business and civil society networks. 
This  is  a  model  with  global  relevance.  Our  technical 
cooperation  work is built  on sharing  best practice and 
south-south cooperation. These provide a new basis for 
sustainable development cooperation. 

In its work on the MDGs, the Commonwealth and 
its  Secretariat  are  guided  by  the  recognition  that 
democracy  and  development  are 
interdependent. 
Democracy at the national and local level promotes the 
transparency  and  accountability  essential  to  efficient 
and  effective  delivery  of  public  services  and  the 
economic  growth  which  reduces  poverty.  We  strongly 
believe  that  achieving  the  MDGs  requires  the  full 
for  both  “people 
engagement  of  all  citizens, 
ownership”  of 
“country 
ownership” are essential. 

We acknowledge and support the commitment of 
the  United  Nations  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-
moon,  the  United  Nations  as  an  organization,  and  so 
many millions across the globe to maintaining the hope 
that  inspired  the  MDGs  in  2000.  We  trust  that  this 
meeting  and  the  outcome  document  will  serve  to 
galvanize the global community, and particularly those 
most able to do so, into providing the human, technical 
these  objectives 
the  MDGs. 
and 
to 
delivering 
In 

less 
The overarching goal that is still within our grasp 
than  saving  present  and  future 
and  financial  resources  necessary  to  the  task  ahead 
which is assuring the attainment of the MDGs. 

is  nothing 
generations of the world’s people from wasted lives. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now  give  the  floor  to  the  observer  of  the  Common 
Fund for Commodities. 
Mr. Mchumo (Common Fund for Commodities): 

It  is  a  great  honour  for  the  Common  Fund  for 
Commodities  (CFC),  and  for  myself,  to  address  this 
meeting  to  present  the  perspective  of  the  Common 
Fund with regard to the achievement of the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs).  

By  its  very  creation,  the  core  business  of  the 
Common  Fund  for  Commodities  is  essentially  to 
combat  poverty  in  developing  countries  by  ensuring 
greater  productivity,  increased  income,  and  enhanced 
export  earnings  from  commodities,  which  constitute 
the  base  of  the  economies  of  the  majority  of  the 
developing countries. The CFC undertakes projects on 
commodity  diversification  and  value  addition,  disease 
and  pest  control  for  higher  productivity,  and  other 
commodity development  measures.  Our main mandate 
is  to  enhance  the  socio-economic  development  of 
commodity  producers,  giving  priority  to  assisting 
small-holder  commodity  producers.  The  projects 
financed  by  the  Common  Fund,  therefore,  are  aligned 
to make a tangible contribution to the attainment of the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 

Currently, three quarters of the world’s extremely 
poor, estimated to be about 800 million people, live in 
rural  areas  and  depend  on  commodities  and 
commodity-related 
jobs 
livelihoods. 
their 
Commodities  are  central 
the  economies  of 
developing countries, being a major source of income, 
employment,  trade  and  Government  revenues.  Of  a 
total  of  141  developing  countries,  95  depend  on 
commodities  for  at  least  50  per  cent  of  their  export 
earnings,  and  approximately  half  the  countries  in 
Africa  derive  over  80  per  cent  of  their  merchandise 
export income from commodities.  

that  backdrop  —  where  many 
developing  countries,  especially  the  most  vulnerable, 
are  heavily  dependent  on  commodities  —  one  cannot 
effectively  address  the  implementation  of  the  MDGs 
Considering 
for 
for 
54 

10-54527 
in 
the 
trading 
Although 
non-discriminatory 
targets.  Goal  8  — 


and  combat  poverty  without  taking  into  account  the 
imperative of commodity development. 

the  MDGs 
context  of 
commodities  are  particularly  important  for  attaining 
Goal 1 — to eradicate poverty and hunger — they have 
a cross-cutting relevance, affecting many of the agreed 
MDG 
to  develop  a  global 
partnership  for  development  —  is  another  with  regard 
to  the  targets  addressing  the  needs  of  least  developed 
countries  (LDCs)  and  developing  an  open,  rule-based, 
predictable, 
system. 
Statistics from the United Nations Conference on Trade 
and  Development  show  that  about  80  per  cent  of  the 
agreed exports of LDCs are comprised of commodities 
and  that  for  landlocked  developing  countries,  that 
number is 70 per cent. 

A  fairer  international  system  for  commodities 
trade  would  result  in  more  opportunities  for  poor 
farmers and thus directly influence the socio-economic 
conditions  in  many  of  the  world’s  poorest  countries. 
Market barriers and volatile commodity prices have led 
many  producers  in  developing  countries  to  abandon 
their farms and migrate to urban areas to look for new 
economic opportunities. That creates pressure on urban 
areas,  particularly 
like  health, 
in  basic  services 
education, drinking water and housing.  

Women  constitute  a  significant  majority  of  the 
workforce 
production. 
Implementing  commodity  measures  therefore  has  a 
significant  effect  on  promoting  gender  equality  and 
empowering women, which is Goal 3, and that is why 
the gender dimension is an integral part in the appraisal 
process of CFC projects.  

Commodities  also  have  an  indirect  impact  on 
social development, especially in education and health. 
Maintaining  sustainable  and  productive  commodity 
systems  provides  farmers  and  their  families  with  food 
security and cash income and effects the general health 
and  education  of  the  family.  Raising  the  incomes  of 
commodity  growers  and  ensuring  that  those  incomes 
are predictable could promote rural social development 
in general, because farmers will be more likely to send 
their  children  to  school.  That  would  contribute  to  the 
implementation  of  Goal  2  —  universal  primary 
education.  It  would  also  guarantee  that  children  are 
better nourished, thus facilitating the reduction of child 
mortality, as set under Goal 4.  
commodity 
involved 
in 
A/65/PV.9
are 
revenues 
commodities 
the  main 
in  developing 
Furthermore,  it  cannot  be  overemphasized  that 

source  of 
export 
Government 
countries, 
providing a major source of public resources to finance 
social policies. 

In  order  to  implement  the  MDGs,  the  following 
issues  should  be  taken  into  account:  first,  the  supply 
capacity limitations under which commodity producers 
operate,  including  infrastructure  issues;  second,  the 
lack of diversification in commodity production; third, 
the  effective  participation  of  producers,  especially 
small-holders;  fourth,  appropriate 
instruments  for 
tackling  fluctuation  in  commodity  prices;  fifth,  an 
including  an 
international  enabling  environment, 
equitable,  predictable  and  rule-based 
international 
trade  system;  sixth,  effective  mobilization  of  capital 
and  increased  public  spending  in  order  to  assist 
commodity producers; and finally, additional resources 
in 
international  official  development  assistance, 
especially targeting the commodity sector. 

Finally, as repeatedly stated, commodities have a 
multifaceted dimension and a cross-cutting impact that 
in general permeate all the targets set in the MDGs. It 
is necessary to make commodities a growth factor and 
to  unlock  the  potential  which  is  embedded  in  rich 
natural and human resources.  

Through  its  Five-Year Action  Plan,  the  Common 
Fund for Commodities provides a modest contribution 
to  the  achievement  of  the  MDGs,  but  the  challenge  is 
greater  than  the  resources  available.  More  resources 
need  to  be  committed  in  commodity  development 
assistance by the international community.  
We at the CFC are at a crossroads, as our member 

countries  are  now  discussing 
the 
organization.  In  line  with  the  General  Assembly’s 
resolution on commodities (resolution 64/192), adopted 
in  December  2009,  we  hope  that  we  will  be  given 
enough resources to continue making a modest impact 
in  international  development  and  the  achievements  of 
the MDGs towards 2015 and beyond. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now  give  the  floor  to  Mrs.  Melinda  French  Gates, 
Co-Chair  and  Trustee  of  the  Bill  and  Melinda  Gates 
Foundation. 
Mrs. Gates (Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation): 

I  am  honoured  to  join  the Assembly  at  the  conclusion 
of  this  critical  dialogue  among  world  leaders  about 
the  future  of 
10-54527 

55 

that  we  will  change 
A/65/PV.9 

what  I  believe  is  one  of  the  most  urgent  challenges 
facing the world today: how to accelerate the progress 
toward the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).  

Over the past week I have heard some people say 
we  will  never  meet  the  MDGs.  Sometimes,  our 
impatience  with  the  way  the  world  is  leads  us  to  be 
pessimistic  about  our  ability  to  change  it.  But  at  the 
Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, we believe we can 
be  very  impatient  with  the  way  the  world  is  and  very 
optimistic 
it.  The  MDGs 
themselves  embody  this  impatient  optimism.  They 
recognize  how  much  there  is  to  be  done,  while  at  the 
same time signalling the scale and scope of the world’s 
ambition. 

One reason I am optimistic is the progress I have 
seen in the 10 years since the MDGs were agreed to as 
part of the historic Millennium Declaration (resolution 
55/2).  The  world  is  not  called  on  to  conjure  progress 
from a void. Instead, it is called on to learn from very 
real progress on nearly all the MDGs, to expand it and 
to speed it up.  

One  refrain  I  hear  is  that  we  are  off  track  on 
many  of  the  Goals.  That  statement  is  technically 
accurate. Not every country will meet every Goal, and 
there is a risk that some of the Goals will not be met. 
But  that  binary  outlook  —  with  total  success  on  one 
side  and  total  failure  on  the  other  and  people  on  both 
sides blaming each other — obscures the extraordinary 
progress  driven  by  extraordinary  people  across  the 
globe. 
Take  the  MDG  for  child  mortality. The  goal  is  a 

two-thirds reduction, and we may not reach it by 2015. 
But have we failed when 4 million children who would 
have died in 1990 will survive in 2010? Have we failed 
when  we  have  reduced  polio,  a  crippling  childhood 
disease, by 99 per cent in the past 20 years? 

Another complaint I hear a lot is that progress is 
not  spread  evenly.  Some  people  dismiss  the  fact  that 
1.3 billion people have lifted themselves out of poverty 
by  pointing  out  that  most  of  them  live  in  China  and 
India,  not  in  African  countries.  I  believe  that  when 
poor people lift themselves out of poverty, we ought to 
celebrate, no matter where they come from. Bill and I 
started our foundation because we believe that all lives 
have equal value, and I am not comfortable comparing 
one person’s suffering to that of another.  
that  provide  maximum  value 

While it is true that some  countries  are  reducing 
poverty  more  quickly  than  others  —  and  some,  sadly, 
have moved backwards — eight African countries have 
already  achieved  the  Goal  on  poverty  reduction,  and 
several more are on schedule to do so by 2015. Across 
nearly every Goal, there are inspiring examples of even 
the  poorest  countries  making  dramatic  improvements 
in short periods of time. 

The  task  ahead  is  to  learn  what  the  most 
successful  countries  are  doing  right,  so  that  we  can 
spread their best practices. In difficult economic times, 
it  is  imperative  that  we  increase  support  for  effective 
interventions 
for 
money —  and  not  shift  even  bigger  burdens  to  the 
poorest by cutting back on development spending. 

Recently,  we  have  seen  some  of  these  proven, 
cost-effective  approaches  gaining  momentum,  for 
example,  agricultural  development.  More  than  three 
quarters  of  the  poor  people  in  the  world  depend  on 
farming  for  their  food  and  income,  which  is  why 
agriculture is such an effective weapon against hunger 
and  poverty.  The  Gates  Foundation  is  supporting 
partners  like  the  Alliance  for  a  Green  Revolution  in 
Africa to work with donors and developing countries to 
create new agricultural opportunities for small farmers. 
The  Group  of  Eight  (G8)  and  Group  of  20  countries 
increased  their  commitments  to  agriculture  last  year, 
and many developing country Governments, especially 
in Africa, have followed up with spending increases of 
their own. 

To take another example, women’s and children’s 
health,  we  know  that  investments  in  women  and 
children  generate  huge  returns. A  healthy  mother  who 
can  give  her  children  a  healthy  start  in  life  has  a 
tremendous  ripple  effect  on  development.  Earlier 
today, 
the  Global 
Strategy  for  Women’s  and  Children’s  Health,  which 
builds  on  the  financial  commitments  made  at  the  G8 
meeting in Canada this summer.  

Along with Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and 
Deputy  Prime  Minister  Nick  Clegg,  I  was  proud  to 
announce  that  the  Gates  Foundation  has  formed  a 
partnership  with 
for 
International  Development, 
the  United  Kingdom 
Department  for  International  Development  and  the 
Australian  Government  Overseas  Aid  Program 
to 
coordinate our efforts on the ground in poor countries. 
the  United  States  Agency 
the  Secretary-General 
launched 
56 

10-54527 
Mr.  Gupta
(International  Chamber 


The  synergy  will  help  all  of  us  make  a  bigger 
difference in the lives of more women and children. 

So  I  am  impatient.  I  am  impatient  because  the 
world  is  not  getting  better  fast  enough,  or  for  enough 
people.  But  I  am  also  optimistic.  I  am  optimistic 
because  there  are  proven  and  affordable  ways  to 
decrease hunger and poverty, to help mothers and their 
babies  thrive,  and  to  make  rapid  progress  on  all  the 
MDGs. 

And  I  am  optimistic  about  one  more  thing.  I  am 
optimistic  that  our  impatience  will  lead  us  all  to  be 
more motivated, not less. I am optimistic that our sense 
of  urgency  will  inspire  us  to  work  together,  not  to 
isolate  ourselves.  For  if  we  are  motivated,  if  we  are 
inspired, if we work together, then we can meet again 
in  five  years  to  celebrate  achievements  that  few  of  us 
might have dared to imagine. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now  give  the  floor  to  Mr.  Rajat  Kumar  Gupta, 
Chairman of the International Chamber of Commerce. 
of 

Commerce): As Chairman of the International Chamber 
of  Commerce  (ICC),  it  gives  me  great  pleasure  to 
speak on behalf of the global business community and 
the International Chamber.  

When  I  spoke  five  years  ago  in  the  General 
Assembly  (see A/60/PV.3),  the  role  of  business  in  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  was  just 
emerging. Now we have many successes. For example, 
we  stand  here  today  knowing  that  we  have  made  a 
dramatic  impact  in  saving  mothers  and  children  from 
malaria.  In  the  past  10  years,  we  have  saved  nearly 
three  quarters  of  a  million  children  across  Africa. 
Technological  solutions  were  made  available  through 
long-lasting  insecticide-treated  nets,  and  Governments 
provided additional financing through the World Bank 
and  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis  and 
Malaria.  

But  what  was  critical  to  the  success  was  a 
private-sector  approach  scale  up  efforts  to  achieve 
universal  coverage  by  2010,  employing  a  war-room 
type  strategy  to  meet  that  Goal  through  better  supply 
chain  planning, 
innovative 
financing  approaches,  and  more.  If  that  attitude  is 
maintained  through  2015,  we  can  save  an  additional 
three  million  lives.  Those  gains  are  truly  critical 
because  success  has  a  multiplier  effect  in  making 
improved 
logistics, 
A/65/PV.9
the  World  Bank’s 
To  capture  and  encourage 
Africa  a  successful  destination  for  investment  and 
economic growth. 

Business does need to step up through innovative 
partnerships,  co-investment  and  direct 
financial 
contributions.  I  have  spent  much  of  my  life  in  a 
dialogue  among  business,  government  and  civil 
society,  and  I  speak  to  this Assembly  today  as  a  true 
believer in the ideal that when all three work together 
in  public-private  partnerships,  our  world  does  work 
better. 
In 2006, for example, Nestle began working with 

local  communities  in  India,  Pakistan  and  Africa  on 
water  efficiency.  That  partnership  has  expanded 
through 
International  Finance 
Corporation, McKinsey and Company and a number of 
other  companies.  They  are  now  working  with 
Governments to solve the water problem, watershed by 
watershed. Those partnerships bring results for society 
by  expanding  community  access 
to  water  and 
improving both quality and efficiency. 

the  benefits  of 
increased  private-sector  investment,  Governments  and 
development  agencies  need 
to  work  much  more 
directly  with  business 
investment 
to 
impediments and remedies and to enhance the capacity 
to  create  business-enabling  environments.  However, 
mistrust  and  misunderstanding  sometimes  prevent  us 
from  working  together  more  often  in  those  types  of 
endeavours.  When  that  happens,  we  all  lose:  business 
loses opportunity and government loses credibility, but 
society  loses  most  of  all.  We  must  overcome  this 
mistrust, and I commit, as Chair of the ICC, that I will 
thousands  of 
advocate  among  our  hundreds  of 
members 
the 
achievement of the MDGs. 

Public-private  partnerships  will  get  us  closer  to 
the MDGs, but economic growth, entrepreneurship and 
job  creation  are  absolutely  fundamental.  Global  trade 
and  investment  are  the  engines  to  move  hundreds  of 
millions  of  people  out  of  poverty  and  to  achieve  the 
MDGs  —  which  is  why  the  Governments  need  to 
create  this  enabling  environment.  The  biggest  lesson 
from emerging economies and less developed countries 
is  that  the  greatest  source  of  development  has  been 
business,  enterprise  creation,  productivity  growth  and 
job creation. 
In  the  most  underdeveloped  economies,  the  aid 

and innovative financing provided by the rich countries 
increase  our  contribution 
identify 
to 
to 
10-54527 

57 

for 
resist 
should 
them  down, 
A/65/PV.9 

can  create  a  minimum  threshold  required  for  the 
private  sector  to  truly  prosper.  And  in  every  country, 
leaders like those gathered here set the framework for 
local  entrepreneurship:  for  setting  up  businesses,  for 
closing 
formalizing  national 
economies,  and  so  on.  Further,  Governments  set  the 
framework  for  national  competitiveness,  for  how  to 
protect  workers,  enforce  contracts  and  protect 
intellectual property and for other initiatives. 

That  is  why  it  is  important  for  Governments  to 
create  a  level  playing  field:  to  create  an  enabling 
environment  for  enterprises  of  all  sizes  and  sectors  to 
develop,  to  create  jobs  and  to  pursue  technological 
innovation and cooperation. Economic growth and our 
ambitions  for  the  eradication  of  poverty  depend  upon 
the energy and drive of business and commerce. We at 
ICC  are  committed  to  trade,  investment  and  job 
creation,  and  we 
the  urges  of 
protectionism in these challenging economic times.  

Now  let  me  talk  about  a  topic  that  is  often  not 
linked  to  the  MDGs  but  is  critically  important.  The 
world  is  undergoing  the  largest  wave  of  urban  growth 
in  history. As  of  2008,  more  than  half  of  the  world’s 
population was living in towns and cities. By 2030 that 
number  will  swell  to  almost  5  billion,  with  urban 
growth  concentrated  in Africa  and Asia.  While  mega-
cities have captured much public attention, most of the 
new  growth  will  occur  in  smaller  towns  and  cities, 
which  have  fewer  resources  with  which  to  respond  to 
the magnitude of the change. 

Poverty is now growing faster in urban areas than 
in  rural  areas.  One  billion  people  live  in  urban  slums, 
which  are 
typically  overcrowded,  polluted  and 
dangerous  and  lack  the  basic  services  such  as  clean 
water  and  sanitation.  The  MDGs  cannot  be  achieved 
without solving the smart-urbanization problem.  

Addressing the challenges  of meeting the MDGs 
by 2015 will require concerted efforts and partnerships 
by all actors in society. My message to Governments is 
that 
they  cannot  hope  for  development  without 
business,  but  business  needs  Governments 
to  be 
successful.  Whenever  we  see  evidence  of  the  private 
sector  driving  development,  in  every  single  case  the 
Government  got  the  conditions  right.  Governments, 
and Governments alone, get to set those conditions that 
enable  business  to  grow  and,  in  turn,  societies  to 
prosper. 
I  believe 
too  high,  but 
innovative  approaches 

I would urge  Government leaders to have higher 
expectation  of  what  business  can  deliver.  We  must 
bring 
to  education,  health, 
municipal  services,  and  so  on.  Such  approaches  could 
include  the  normal  business  incentives  for  the  private 
sector  to  rapidly  ramp  up  and  provide  much  needed 
capacity  in  all  such  fields.  That  may  sound  like 
aspirations  aimed 
that 
development that fails to leverage the best of business 
is development aimed too low. 

In  summary,  I  believe  that  the  success  of  the 
MDGs  is  possible  and  that  public-private  partnerships 
are part of that success. But we cannot forget that our 
greatest chance of achieving the MDGs will be through 
economic  growth,  which  requires  us  to  fundamentally 
address  access  to  education,  universal  health  care, 
environmentally responsible growth and the challenges 
of urbanization. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now give the floor to Ms. Zhou Lu, who will speak for 
Friendship across Frontiers. 
Ms.  Zhou  Lu  (Friendship  across  Frontiers): The 

co-founder  of  the  London  School  of  Economics, 
George  Bernard  Shaw,  once  said  that  progress  is 
impossible  without  change,  and  those  who  cannot 
change  their  minds  cannot  change  anything.  We  are 
here  today.  That  is  the  best  proof  of  progress  that 
reflects far more change than just the change of minds.   

Not so long ago, the prevalent notion of business 
was that the only social responsibility of business is to 
make  profits.  Yet  today,  business  leaders  from  many 
developing countries, such as my country, China, have 
shown that true sustainable value does  not come  from 
profits  but  from  making  a  real  difference.  We  all 
realize  that  Governments  alone  cannot  tackle  many  of 
the problems that we face today. The collaboration and 
commitment  of  the  private  sector  and  civil  society, 
working 
in  partnership  with  Governments,  are 
indispensable to achieve the Millennium Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  —  a  collaboration  based  on  solidarity, 
not charity. 

the 
That 
commitment  to  address  the  challenges  of  the  MDGs 
and  to  do  so  collaboratively  with  all  concerned 
stakeholders  —  Governments,  business  and  non-
governmental  partners  —  and  to  do  it  in  a  way  that 
ensures  national  ownership  and  the  empowerment  of 
the poor. 
is  why  we  are  here 
today  with 
58 

10-54527 
to  using 
them  effectively  and 
to  create  a  shared  value 


We  need  to  commit  to  mobilizing  the  requisite 

resources  and 
to 
enhancing South-South cooperation. We know the gaps 
and we know what works and what does not. We know 
that a fairer trading system and private investment are 
essential,  not  just  external  aid.  We  cannot  wait.  It  is 
time to join efforts, to partner and to collaborate.  

It is time for the private sector and civil society to 
explore  new  forms  of  multi-stakeholder  partnerships 
that  are  focused  on  investing  in  the  underprivileged. 
This  important  event  is  an  opportunity  to  invite  the 
private  sector 
to  develop  business  models  and 
strategies for achieving the MDGs, using the rigours of 
the  market  place,  its  management  expertise  and  its 
logistic  systems  to  move  beyond  corporate  social 
responsibility 
for  all 
stakeholders. 

Since  we  all  recognize  that  the  MDGs  are  a 
responsibility for all citizens, we should encourage all 
citizens and civil society to create a culture of personal 
responsibility  and  encourage  social 
to 
achieve the Millennium Development Goals. 
I  urge  participants,  in  their  different  roles,  to  be 

more 
forms  of 
partnerships for the achievement of the MDGs. I come 
from China, the world’s workshop,  and  I am proud of 
what we have achieved with hard work, ingenuity and 
expanding  partnerships.  Some  700  years  ago,  a  group 
of  Venetians  left  their  homeland  and  headed  for  the 
East. It took them 24 years to return to their homeland, 
and Marco Polo said “I have not told half what I saw”. 
Today  we  have  many  more  resources  than  previously. 
Therefore, we need to repeat that endeavour and come 
form  every  corner  of  the  world  and  work  with  each 
other.  There  is  a  wealth  of  promise  and  potential  that 
can benefit us all in our endeavours to lift people from 
poverty.  

The world is so interconnected. What happens in 
one part ripples and  affects another part, and we need 
to keep that in mind in our efforts and our promise to 
achieve the MDGs and, as the Secretary-General said, 
make it happen. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

now come to  the final remarks of the President of the 
sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly, for which I 
have chosen the title “We will do more to achieve the 
Millennium Development Goals”.  
in  considering  new 
innovation 
innovative 
A/65/PV.9
is 
that 
important 
assistance, 
to  develop 

Our High-level Meeting is coming to an end. By 
adopting the final document (resolution 65/1), we have 
reaffirmed  that  keeping  the  promise  made  in  the  year 
2000  and  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals is a moral duty. It is an essential contribution to 
global  peace, 
security  and  prosperity.  We  are 
determined to fulfil that duty. 

That  message  is  clear  to  all  participants,  and  I 
have heard it from all participants. I welcome the many 
new  proposals  and  commitments  that  were  made 
during  our  debate,  commitments  to  increase  official 
development 
innovative 
financing  and,  in  particular,  to  mobilize  domestic 
resources. 

However,  it  is  not  financial  resources  that  make 
the  difference.  It 
the  policies 
implemented  at  the  international  and  national  levels 
promote  development,  through  opening  of  markets, 
improving  governance  and  giving  priority  in  national 
budgets to public spending to promote the Millennium 
Development Goals. 

What matters now is that  our words be followed 
by  action  and  that  they  have  concrete  results  for  the 
millions of men, women and children living in poverty. 
We will have to closely monitor the implementation of 
our commitments. The annual reports of the Secretary-
General  will  allow  us  to  measure  the  results.  The 
General  Assembly  will  play  its  role,  in  particular 
through a special event to take place in 2013. 

That is how we will show that we are trustworthy 
partners,  credible  and  responsible.  That  is  essential, 
and  I  said  so  in  my  statement  at  the  opening  of  this 
Plenary Meeting. If we want to succeed, we must work 
together.  The  commitment  of  both  donors  and 
recipients  is  needed,  as  an  authentic  partnership. That 
partnership  should  extend  to  civil  society  and  the 
private sector. 

In  that  regard,  I  am  impressed  by  the  strong 
commitment of civil society and private sector partners 
to 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Over 
150 events  have  been  organized  here  in  New York  by 
the partners. A broad range of questions fundamental to 
development  have  been  addressed.  That  profusion  of 
events  facilitated  the  exchange  of  lessons  learned  and 
good  practices  and  strengthened  partnerships.  We  are 
stronger as we continue. 
10-54527 

59 

that  will  allow 
A/65/PV.9 


Formation  of  partnerships  between  the  public 
sector  and  the  private  sector  is  a  powerful  tool  for 
development.  The  roles  of  both  those  actors  are 
complementary.  Governments  must  establish 
the 
conditions 
to 
the  private  sector 
innovate,  invest  and  create  jobs. That  is  the  condition 
for  lasting  success.  It  is  heartening  to  note  that  today 
companies  are  exploring  innovative  models  that  are 
better adapted to meeting the needs of the poor. 

This  afternoon  I  attended  the  launch  of  one 
example of a broad partnership, the Global Strategy for 
Women’s  and  Children’s  Health,  entitled  “Every 
woman, every child”. At the initiative of the Secretary-
General, the Global Strategy is united around the same 
goal  and  includes  not  only  the  192  United  Nations 
Member  States,  but  also  representatives  of  civil 
society,  the  private  sector  and  foundations.  Such 
initiatives  are  encouraging.  I  take  this  opportunity  to 
thank all of those who have made a commitment to the 
Millennium Development Goals, and I hope that others 
will follow their example. 

to  prove  our 
determination.  But  if  we  want  to  strengthen  our 
progress,  we  must  make  a  greater  investment  in  

five  years  more 
We  have 
is  sustainable  and 
respectful  of  humanity  and 
disaster  prevention  and  risk  reduction.  An  earthquake 
in  Haiti,  forest  fires  in  Russia,  floods  in  Pakistan  — 
unfortunately, that list is not exhaustive. This year, the 
enormous human, social,  economic and environmental 
cost of natural disasters has been demonstrated far too 
often.  Real  success  will  be  achieved  only 
if 
if  our  economic 
development 
structures  are 
its 
environment. 
After  these  three  days  of  debate,  I  remain 

optimistic.  We  will 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  Ladies  and  gentlemen,  I  am 
counting on you. 

Before adjourning this meeting, I wish to remind 
members  that  the  closing  meeting  of  the  High-level 
Plenary  Meeting  as  a  contribution 
the  2010 
International  Year  of  Biodiversity  will  take  place 
immediately  after  the  adjournment  of  this  meeting  in 
this Hall. 

of the sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly. 




I  declare  closed  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting 
The meeting rose at 10.05 p.m. 
achieve 
to 
60 

10-54527 
