
A/65/PV.16
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

16th plenary meeting 
Saturday, 25 September 2010, 9 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 





  The meeting was called to order at 9 a.m. 


Address by Mr. Jurelang Zedkaia, President of the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands 

The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of the Marshall Islands. 

  Mr. Jurelang Zedkaia, President of the Republic of 
the  Marshall  Islands,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jurelang 
Zedkaia,  President  of  the  Republic  of  the  Marshall 
Islands, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 

“Yokwe” from the Republic of the Marshall Islands. 

Every  September  since  the  country  became  a 
member  of  the  United  Nations  in  1991,  leaders  of  the 
low-lying  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands  have  been 
reminding the international community of the need for 
full global action on climate change. 

We  have  no  mountains  or  high  ground;  we  have 
only our narrow archipelago resting a metre above the 
ocean.  There  has  been  enough  talk,  and  too  much 
repetition.  It  is  now  time  for  meaningful  action, 
creative  cooperation  and  visible  results  to  address 
climate  change.  If  we  fail  in  the  short-term,  the 
economic and moral costs for our low-lying islands — 
President Zedkaia: I bring the warm greetings of 
The  global  commitment  at  Copenhagen 
and  eventually  the  whole  world  —  will  be  beyond 
calculation. 

to 
safeguard the most vulnerable faces a true litmus test: 
will  our  local  communities  see  visible  results  leading 
towards  a  climate-resilient  future?  I  urge  that  by  the 
time  of  the  climate  change  talks  in  Cancún  nations 
build  political  trust  through  “fast  start”  finance,  by 
providing transparent information and actively turning 
commitments into results. 

We cannot wait for the uncertain path to achieve 
a  full  multilateral  climate  agreement,  and  we  cannot 
allow  laggards  to  set  us  back.  Those  most  vulnerable 
and  those  willing  to  confront  the  challenges  facing  us 
must take leadership in this process by putting forward 
our  own  agreement  spelling  out  real  and  ambitious 
commitments  and  actions  to  address  climate  change. 
And we urge others to follow. 
To  work  in  true  partnership  we  must  first  show 

our 
Islands 
own 
Government  has  endorsed  a  new  climate  change  road 
map,  spelling  out  specific  actions  to  cut  our  own 
emissions  by  40  per  cent  by  2020,  and  concrete 
strategies  to  ensure  that  the  growth  of  our  local 
communities is safeguarded from climate impacts. 
important 

several  Millennium 
progress 
Development  Goals,  but  much 
to  be 
accomplished. With our international partners, we must 
also better address climate change risks in the context 
of our core development. 
Islands  has  made 
achieving 
commitment.  The  Marshall 
The  Marshall 
remains 
towards 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-55103 (E) 
*1055103* 


A/65/PV.16 


Practical  and  “shovel  ready”  adaptation  actions 
taken now — water security, resource conservation and 
infrastructure  protection  —  will  sharply  reduce  the 
long-term risks to our security and sovereignty. But we 
cannot  ignore  such  threats.  It  should  be  a  matter  of 
serious  concern  to  the  Secretary-General  that  we  are 
actively  contemplating  risks  to  our  territorial  integrity 
and  United  Nations  membership, 
that  we  are 
considering  options  to  safeguard  our  population’s 
political rights if our land —and our thin water table — 
becomes unusable in the face of rising seas. 

The Republic of the Marshall Islands is known to 
the United Nations as a small island developing State, 
but we are first and foremost a large ocean nation. Our 
thin atolls may appear tiny on a map, but our exclusive 
economic zone is over 2 million square kilometres. As 
Chair of the Parties to the Nauru Agreement, I address 
the United Nations on behalf of a unified political bloc 
vested  in  ensuring  the  future  of  the  Western  and 
Central Pacific, the world’s largest viable tuna fishery. 

The  development  pathways  of  the  Parties  to  the 
Nauru  Agreement  are  narrow  and  limited,  and  at  the 
highest levels we have committed to putting a firm stop 
to the unrestricted global harvest of our resources. The 
status  quo  of  overfishing  is  unacceptable;  it  has 
strangled our development and threatened the viability 
of  our  resources.  We  have  closed  off  surrounding 
pockets of international waters, and if our development 
and  ecosystem  needs  so  demand,  we  will  close  off 
more. 

We  currently  realize  only  a  tiny  fraction  of  a 
multibillion-dollar  industry  —  only  one  penny  from 
each can of Pacific tuna — and we are seeking global 
support and economic partnership to grow our benefit. 
Without political and economic cooperation in regional 
fisheries  decision-making,  and  unless  fishing  targets 
are  in  line  with  science,  the  collective  economic 
development  of  the  Parties  to  the  Nauru  Agreement 
will  remain  at  a  standstill  as  our  coastal  resources 
decline. We have already driven our partners to achieve 
positive  action.  However,  far  greater  efforts  are 
needed,  from  both  United  Nations  agencies  and 
regional 
to 
identify  time-bound  strategies  which  assist  us  in 
realizing  a  greater  share  of  benefits  from  our  own 
resources. 
fisheries  management  organizations, 
2 

reflecting  modern 
The  United  Nations  must  make  faster  progress 

towards 
twenty-first-century 
dynamics. The Security Council should be restructured 
to  accommodate  those  nations  whose  size,  leadership 
and  responsibility  —  in  particular,  the  Group  of  Four 
of  Japan,  Germany,  India  and  Brazil  —  indicate  a 
deserved  role  as  permanent  members.  Further  efforts 
should  also  ensure  that  Africa  and  small  nations, 
including island States, have an improved voice. 

The  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands  welcomes 
the  progress  achieved  on  both  sides  of  the  Taiwan 
Straits. The pragmatic and moderate actions of Taiwan 
should  not  be  overlooked  by  the  United  Nations,  and 
deserve further encouragement. I call upon the United 
Nations system and Member States to be open-minded 
and  identify  appropriate  means  to  accept  Taiwan’s 
participation within specialized agencies, including the 
International  Civil  Aviation  Organization,  and  in  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change.  In  particular,  recognizing  the  commitment  to 
reduce  emissions  by 
the  23  million  people  of 
Taiwan —  a  fellow  island  nation  —  in  addressing 
climate change is in the common interest of us all. 

The  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands  welcomes 
the  leadership  of  the  United Arab  Emirates  as  host  of 
the  International  Renewable  Energy Agency.  We  look 
forward  to  pursuing  increased  partnership  with  the 
United  Arab  Emirates  and  to  establishing  a  dialogue 
with the Arab League on investment  and development 
assistance in the Pacific region. 

Finally,  I  must  address  one  of  this  year’s  most 
important  issues  within  the  United  Nations.  Member 
States  and  leaders  must  improve  progress  towards 
achieving  the  goal  of  stopping  the  spread  of  nuclear 
weapons and pursue the peace and security of a world 
without them. 

The  Marshall  Islands  has  a  unique  reason  for 
seeking  the  goal  of  a  world  free  of  nuclear  weapons. 
During  our  time  as  a  United  Nations  Trust  Territory, 
67 large-scale  surface  tests  of  nuclear  weapons  were 
conducted  on  our  homeland,  explicitly  authorized 
under  two  United  Nations  resolutions,  in  1954  and 
1956.  No  people  should  ever  bear  such  a  burden.  For 
decades,  we  have  told  the  United  Nations  about  our 
communities  who  are  still  displaced,  about 
the 
deliberate  use  of  our  people  in  scientific  experiments 
and  of  ongoing  health  impacts  inherited  through 
generations.  We  continue  to  face  the  challenges  of  a 
10-55103 
that 
storage 
in  ensuring 
taken  by  partners, 


United  Nations-era  nuclear  waste 
site, 
surrounded  by  rising  waters,  towards  dealing  with 
which we lack resources or technical capacity. 
We  acknowledge  important  and  positive  actions 

already 
including  our  former 
administrator,  the  United  States,  but  we  need,  and 
deserve,  improved  attention  and  assistance  from  the 
United  States,  as  well  as  from  the  United  Nations 
system and multilateral bodies. 

I  also  acknowledge  the  support  of  the  Pacific 
Islands Forum, including the leadership of the outgoing 
the  Non-Aligned 
chair,  Australia,  as  well  as  of 
Movement, 
this  year’s  Review 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  acknowledged 
the  need  to  address  sites  contaminated  by  testing.  I 
fully expect that Member States of the United Nations 
will  be  willing  to  further  recognize  that  a  special 
responsibility  exists  towards  former  United  Nations 
Trust Territories  adversely  affected  by  nuclear  testing. 
As  the  United  Nations  maps  a  global  future  of 
non-proliferation,  the  past  legacy  of  nuclear  activities 
can no longer be ignored. 

The  message  is  the  same  for  nuclear  weapons, 
global security and freedom from terrorism, or climate 
change: international law is not an empty promise. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the Republic of the Marshall Islands for the statement 
he has just made. 

  Mr. Jurelang Zedkaia, President of the Republic of 
the  Marshall  Islands,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 

Address by Mr. Nicholas Joseph Orville Liverpool, 
President of the Commonwealth of Dominica 

The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Commonwealth of Dominica.

  Mr.  Nicholas  Joseph  Orville Liverpool,  President 
of the Commonwealth of Dominica, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nicholas 
Joseph  Orville  Liverpool, 
the 
President 
of 


A/65/PV.16
Commonwealth  of  Dominica,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly. 

President  Liverpool:  I  begin  by  congratulating 
you, Sir, on your well-deserved election to preside over 
the  sixty-fifth  session  of 
the  General  Assembly. 
Additionally,  I  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  Mr.  Ali 
Abdussalam Treki of Libya for his effective, strong and 
dynamic leadership during the sixty-fourth session and 
to  salute  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his 
tremendous efforts in promoting global peace, security 
and development. 
I address the Assembly as we confront the second 

decade  of 
this  millennium,  which  brings  such 
tremendous  opportunities  for  mankind.  Scientific  and 
technological innovations have made the world a truly 
global village characterized by continuing connectivity 
and  unimagined  possibilities  for  facilitating  global 
development.  These  technologies,  integrating  as  they 
do  even  the  smallest  and  traditionally  most  distant 
countries  into  the  day-to-day  activities  of  the  world 
community,  have  the  potential  to  combat  hunger, 
eradicate  poverty,  generate  employment,  and  elevate 
the standard  of living of people throughout the world, 
without  compromising  the  integrity  of  our  ecosystem 
and planet Earth. 

However,  in  order  to  realize  the  full  potential  of 
these  opportunities,  the  community  of  nations  now 
needs 
to  pursue  with 
determination reforms in international and multilateral 
institutions  such  as  the  United  Nations  which  will 
ensure equality of treatment, and bring the benefits of 
development to those countries which, in consequence 
of  small  size,  are  often  the  least  endowed,  and  most 
vulnerable in today’s world community. 
The  formulation  and  pursuit  of  the  Millennium 

Development  Goals  (MDGs)  has  brought  the  world’s 
attention to the main issues of development, especially 
the  challenges  faced  by  developing  countries.  It  also 
brought  to  the  fore  the  nexus  which  exists  between 
financial, social and economic development on the one 
hand and the sustainable use of natural resources on the 
other. 
By  and  large,  we  in  the  developing  world  have 

lived  up  to  the  commitments  which  we  made,  by 
mobilizing 
for 
development  and  making  major  structural  changes, 
even  in  the  face  of  an  increasingly  hostile  economic, 
financial  and  trading  system.  Those  efforts  have  been 
the  courage 
to  muster 
resources 
domestic 
financial 
10-55103 

3 

A/65/PV.16 

coupled  with  international  resources  for  development 
in  the  form  of  foreign  direct  investment  and  official 
development  assistance. The  results  to  date  have  been 
encouraging when one considers where we were at the 
beginning  of  the  millennium.  There  still  remain, 
however,  a  number  of  unresolved  global  issues  which 
have  stymied  the  efforts  to  attain  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

We  suggest,  therefore,  that  the  next  five  years 
before  the  target  date  of  the  MDGs  must  see  a 
reconfiguration  and  acceleration  of  efforts  by  all 
Member  States.  This  should  begin  with  the  fulfilment 
of commitments already given by developed countries, 
and  South-South  cooperation  must  be  strengthened  in 
keeping  with 
the  kind  of  solidarity  now  being 
demonstrated  by  Venezuela,  Cuba,  China,  Brazil  and 
other such developing countries. 

Negotiation  of  the  Doha  Development  Round 
must  be  concluded  within  a  reasonable  time,  and  in 
that  regard  the  very  small  States  of  the  developing 
world  must  continue  to  insist,  even  as  others  resist  it, 
on meaningful recognition by the global community of 
the  principle  of  special  and  differential  treatment, 
rather  than  a  “one  size  fits  all”  approach,  as  a  central 
principle  permitting  beneficial  economic  adjustment 
for  countries 
like  my  own.  This  will  provide 
developing countries with an opportunity to compete in 
the  global  trading  system  and  place  greater  emphasis 
on trade rather than aid. 
The phenomenon of climate change has been well 

documented  by 
the  United  Nations  and  other 
institutions  over  the  past  decade.  In  fact,  we  in  the 
Caribbean and other small island developing States can 
speak of our experience with the increasing intensity of 
hurricanes,  droughts,  floods,  destruction  to  coastal 
areas  and  rising  sea  levels.  These  have  had  severe 
impacts  on  our  agriculture,  tourism,  and  physical 
infrastructure,  especially  along  our  coasts,  leading  to 
an increasingly high cost for adaptation and mitigation, 
resulting  in  the  diversion  of  funds  which  otherwise 
would  have  been  used  for  social  and  economic 
development. Climate change, therefore, has become a 
major threat to the ability of most developing countries 
to achieve the MDGs. 
For  almost  two  decades  the  United  Nations  has 

and 
recognized 
environmental 
island 
developing  States.  Since  the  Mauritius  meeting  in 
vulnerabilities 
economic, 
the 
special 
social 
of 
small 
the  achievement  of 
Despite  our  many  challenges,  small 
2005, their situation has become even more precarious. 
The impacts of the world food and fuel crises in 2007 
and  the  financial  and  economic  crisis  in  2008  have 
clearly demonstrated the open and vulnerable nature of 
our  economies.  This,  coupled  with  the  impact  of 
climate  change,  strengthens  the  case  for  a  unique 
position for small island developing States and hence a 
more  prominent  place  within  the  United  Nations 
system as a recognized category, with all the attendant 
benefits and obligations. 

island 
developing  States  continue 
to  demonstrate  strong 
leadership,  particularly  in  the  area  of  climate  change 
and  in  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  in  general. 
Significant progress has been made in the areas of the 
protection  of  biodiversity,  strategies  for  promoting 
renewable  energy,  and 
the 
Millennium Development Goals. These efforts need to 
be  complemented  both  by  the  United  Nations  system 
and by other  Member States, especially the developed 
countries. 

It  is  regrettable  that  to  date  no  consensus  has 
been  reached  on  the  best  way  to  deal  with  what  we 
consider a clear and present danger to our planet. The 
failure at Copenhagen should be further motivation for 
all countries to work assiduously towards an agreement 
in Mexico. 

We  commend  the  efforts  being  made  towards  a 
consensus  on  climate  change;  however,  we  maintain 
that  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate  Change  should  be  the  primary  forum  for 
negotiating  the  global  response  to  climate  change. We 
therefore  call  upon  all  Member  States  to  work  within 
this  framework  in  order  to  arrive  expeditiously  at  a 
binding agreement which will recognize the shared but 
differentiated responsibilities of Member States. 

Since  its  establishment,  the  United  Nations  has 
played,  as  it  continues  to  play,  a  critical  role  in 
fostering  greater  understanding  among  nations  and 
maintaining  peace  and  security  throughout  the  world. 
The  United  Nations  has  also  been  able  to  reduce 
conflict  and  minimize  tensions  between  countries  and 
peoples.  These  efforts  have  been  buttressed  by  other 
significant  efforts,  such  as 
the 
the  Treaty  on 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  and 
the 
Programme  of  Action 
to  Prevent,  Combat  and 
Eradicate  the  Illicit  Trade  in  Small  Arms  and  Light 
Weapons in All Its Aspects. 
4 

10-55103 
the 
that 
larger  nations  of 



In  May  this  year  the  United  Nations  held  the 
Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons.  Dominica 
supports the outcome of the Conference, and calls upon 
all  Member  States  to  adhere  to  the  obligations  of  the 
Treaty.  We  call  for  a  world  free  of  nuclear  weapons, 
and join the calls for total disarmament. 

Small arms and light weapons continue to pose a 
major  threat  to  peace  and  security  throughout  the 
world. Dominica is very concerned over the increase in 
that  illicit  trade  in  the  Caribbean  region.  We  are  not 
convinced 
the  world 
comprehend  the  extent  of  the  inability  of  smaller 
nations  like  my  own,  which  bridge  the  producers  and 
consumers  of  narcotic  substances,  to  cope  with  this 
new horror. 

The  continued  demand  in  the  North  for  drugs 
produced  in  the  South,  and  the  growth  of  the  related 
trade in small arms and light weapons, have placed us 
in the crossfire of these illicit activities. Yet it appears 
to  us  that  the  larger  nations  of  the  world  only  take 
decisive  steps  to  cope  with  this  situation  when  it  has 
become  untenable  for  themselves.  In  that  context,  we 
do not believe that sufficient consultation now exists to 
ensure  that  the  smaller  States  are  provided,  on  a 
continuous  basis,  with  the  capabilities  needed  for 
persistent  attention  to  the  problems  that  arise  in  our 
jurisdictions. This is yet another aspect of the case for 
special  and  differential  treatment  in  the  security  and 
social development spheres. 

The  threat  of  terrorism  is  of  concern  throughout 
the  world.  Radical  extremism  has  created  an 
environment 
religious 
misunderstandings  and  misplaced  anger  have  claimed 
the lives of thousands. We extend our sympathy to all 
the  Member  States  which  have  lost  citizens  at  the 
hands  of 
to  destabilize 
Governments and to instil fear in the rest of humanity. 
By its very nature, the fight against terrorism requires 
global  action.  This  must  involve  the  efforts  of  the 
United  Nations 
in  fostering  a  culture  of  peace, 
tolerance  and  understanding  among  the  peoples  of  the 
world. 

During last year’s general debate (see A/64/PV.7), 
Dominica  recognized  the  important  role  of  the  United 
Nations in the rebuilding process of our sister nation of 
Haiti.  We  also  called  upon  those  Member  States  that 
had pledged assistance to make good on their promises 
those  who  have  sought 
in  which 
cultural 
and 
A/65/PV.16
for 
the 
support 
In  March 
reconstruction 
the  United  Nations  hosted 
in  order 
to  foster  Haiti’s  social  and  economic 
development.  Today,  the  challenges  facing  Haiti  have 
been  magnified  to  a  degree  which  requires  further 
commitments  from  all  Member  States  of  the  United 
Nations.  The  destruction  wrought  in  Haiti  by  the 
earthquake  in  January  has  made  the  need  for  resource 
mobilization a matter of extreme urgency. 
the 

International  Donors’  Conference 
towards  a  New 
Future  for  Haiti.  Dominica  wishes  to  commend  the 
organizers  and  the  contributors  to  this  initiative. 
During the Conference several Member States pledged 
their 
efforts. 
Commitments  of  several  billion  dollars  were  made. 
Sadly, to date the Government and people of Haiti have 
been  able  to  access  only  a  fraction  of  those  pledges. 
We  call  on  all  Member  States  to  make  good  their 
promises so as to ensure that the rebuilding process can 
continue  and  to  avoid  further  deterioration  of  the 
political, social and economic situation of that country. 

The focus in rebuilding Haiti should be not solely 
on physical infrastructure, but also on the building and 
rebuilding of institutions to strengthen the governance 
of Haiti and to empower its people through technology 
transfer  and  capacity-building.  It  should  also  include 
development of the productive sectors to place Haiti on 
a path to economic independence. 

Most  important,  the  international  community 
must  recognize  and  accept  that  the  Government  and 
people  of  Haiti  must  be  placed  at  the  centre  of  the 
reconstruction  process  so  as  to  engender  a  spirit  of 
unity  of  purpose,  ownership 
and  meaningful 
partnership, even at these most challenging times. 
The crisis in  Haiti presents both a  challenge and 

international 
an  opportunity,  not  only 
community, but also to the Governments and financial 
institutions  to  which  that  country  remains  heavily 
indebted.  We  call  on  those  international  financial 
institutions  and  Governments  to  cancel  the  remaining 
debt  owed  by  Haiti  in  order  to  provide  more  latitude 
for that country to fully realize its recovery efforts. As 
regards  trade,  we  urge  all  Member  States  to  liberalize 
trading regimes so as to allow greater access of Haitian 
products into their markets without barriers. 

Earlier  I  spoke  of  the  threats  which  plague 
mankind in the era of globalization. I also highlighted 
the  need 
for 
cooperation  between  States.  Those  challenges  can  be 
for  multilateralism  and 
the  need 
the 
to 
10-55103 

5 

the 
right 
to  our 
law.  Adherence 
for  sovereignty  and 
A/65/PV.16 

overcome  only  in  a  global  environment  where  there 
exist respect  for each other’s territorial  integrity; non-
interference  in  each  other’s  domestic  affairs;  and 
respect 
to  self-
determination. It is in this context that Dominica again 
calls on the United States of America to discontinue its 
economic blockade against the people of the Republic 
of Cuba. 
The  rule  of  law  is  an  important  aspect  of 

international 
international 
obligations  is  important  to  the  maintenance  of  peace 
and security and to ensuring that all persons, regardless 
of  race,  nationality,  creed  or  gender,  continue  to 
believe  in  the  international  system  and  to  recognize 
that  this  system  is  for  the  benefit  of  all  peoples  and 
nations,  whether  large  or  small.  That  is  why  the 
situation  in  which  our  sister  nation  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda has been placed vis-à-vis its dispute with the 
United States of America is extremely unfortunate and 
must  be  remedied  as  quickly  as  possible. We  urge  the 
parties involved to quickly seek to resolve the situation 
and  arrive  at  a  negotiated  settlement  that  is  fair  and 
just. 

to 
recognize  that  new  developments  in  technology  have 
brought  an  interdependence  among  peoples  and  States 
as  they  vigorously  pursue  the  development  of  their 
separate countries. They have also come to realize that 
there  must  be  increasing  cooperation  between  nations 
in order to ensure a deliberate and planned approach to 
the  maintenance  and  development  of  the  resources  of 
this  planet.  In  that  connection,  regional  processes  of 
cooperation have increasingly come to characterize the 
conduct of nations. 

But  as  the  technology  of  communication  has 
increased  international  connectiveness,  it  has  also 
become  apparent 
regionalism  often  proves 
insufficient,  and  that  a  global  approach  must  be  taken 
to  new  issues  which  arise.  Therefore,  my  country 
strongly  supports  the  principle  that  it  is  the  United 
Nations, to which all countries turn in times of crises, 
that must play the fundamental role in the surveillance 
of all developments affecting our planet. Consequently, 
we hereby reaffirm our commitment to the central role 
that 
in  global 
governance. 
the  United  Nations  should  play 
this  planet  have  come 
The  citizens  of 
that 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Commonwealth  of  Dominica  for  the  statement  he 
has just made. 

  Mr.  Nicholas  Joseph  Orville  Liverpool,  President 
of the Commonwealth of Dominica, was escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall. 


King  Mswati:  It  is  a  pleasure  for  me  to  address 
Address by His Majesty King Mswati III, Head of 
State of the Kingdom of Swaziland 

The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 
will  hear  an  address  by  the  Head  of  State  of  the 
Kingdom of Swaziland. 

  His Majesty King Mswati III, Head of State of the 
Kingdom  of  Swaziland,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the United Nations His Majesty King Mswati III, Head 
of  State  of  the  Kingdom  of  Swaziland,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly. 

the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session. 

We meet following the historic review summit on 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), the High-
level Plenary Meeting of the Assembly, which gave us 
the  opportunity 
share 
experiences  and  ideas  on  how  best  to  achieve  our  set 
goals  and  objectives  for  2015.  As  we  return  to  our 
respective  countries  we  go  with  renewed  commitment 
to keep working harder to meet the MDGs. 

I would like at the outset to extend our thanks and 
appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  and  the  United 
Nations  agencies  for  their  presence  around  the  world. 
We  commend  the  active  participation  of  the  United 
Nations  in  various  missions,  such  as  efforts  to  restore 
peace  in  conflict  areas,  and  its  role  in  disaster  relief 
and in various exercises to fight hunger and poverty. 

We  pledge  ourselves  to  continue  to  support  the 
United  Nations  in  its  primary  role  of  ensuring  that  all 
the nations of the world live peacefully with each other 
while supporting nation-building through development 
projects. 

session, 
The 
“Reaffirming the central  role of the United Nations in 
global governance”, came at a most opportune time in 
review  progress  and 
sixty-fifth 
theme 
this 
for 
to 
6 

10-55103 


the  life  of  the  United  Nations,  since  we  have  been 
calling for all our voices to be heard. I must hasten to 
state that all the wars and conflicts that we see around 
the  world  can  only  be  resolved  through  peaceful 
dialogue  and  negotiations.  The  United  Nations  is  the 
organization  best  positioned  for  this  task.  There  is  no 
place for unilateralism. 

It  is  on  this  basis  that  the  Kingdom  of  eSwatini 
reaffirms  our  call  for  the  finalization  of  the  United 
Nations  reforms,  with  particular  reference  to  the 
Security  Council.  It  should  be  appreciated  that  the 
world  today  faces  a  new  set  of  challenges,  different 
from  those  that  it  faced  when  our  Organization  was 
founded  in  1945;  thus  the  urgent  need  for  the  United 
Nations to remain dynamic and transform itself to meet 
today’s challenges. 

One  of  the  major  organs  that  require  immediate 
reform  is  the  Security  Council,  which  has  seen  a 
number  of  regions  expressing  a  desire 
to  gain 
membership, 
to  ensure  wider  representation.  The 
Kingdom of eSwatini stands by the African position, as 
clearly  stated  in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus,  that  Africa 
should  have  two  permanent  and  five  non-permanent 
seats. We hope that during this session this matter will 
be finalized. 

We  in  the  African  continent  are  committed  to 
resolving  all  conflicts  through  peaceful  dialogue.  The 
coordination  and  cooperation  between  the  African 
Union  and  its  various  regional  blocs  is  beginning  to 
pay handsome dividends. We now approach issues as a 
collective  for  better  results.  We  are  happy  that  the 
United  Nations  continues  to  work  and  cooperate  with 
us  in  effecting  our  programmes  for  peacebuilding  and 
peacekeeping. 
The General Assembly will know that the African 

Union  declared  2010  to  be  our  Year  of  Peace  and 
Security. We have made it clear that all perpetrators of 
coups and civil wars and all forms of conflict should be 
dealt  with  squarely  and  decisively.  Indeed,  we  are 
committed to the promotion of lasting peace, because it 
is a prerequisite for achieving sustainable development. 
We appreciate the support of the United Nations in our 
resolve  to  ensure  that  peace  prevails  in  the  continent 
and, indeed, the whole world. 

I  am  happy  to  say  that  I  personally  had  the 
honour  of  lighting  and  hoisting  the  African  flame  of 
peace twice this year. The Swazi nation prides itself on 
this, because we are a peaceful nation, which is telling 
A/65/PV.16
is 
the  best 
formula 
for 
the 
that 
issue 
that  peace 
reconstruction  of 
the  world 
development. 

touches  upon  global 
Another 
governance  is  that  of  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco.  It  is 
our  considered  view  that  the  United  Nations,  working 
with  relevant  regional  organizations,  should  work  on 
the issue and find a lasting solution. 

We  note  with  concern  the  continued  conflicts  in 
Madagascar,  Somalia,  Darfur,  the  Middle  East  and 
Afghanistan,  to  mention  just  a  few.  We  call  for  the 
restoration  of  peace  in  all  those  areas,  as  it  is  always 
disturbing to see people undergo so much suffering due 
to conflicts. 
While Afghanistan is  still  undergoing its process 

reconciliation  and 
its 
of 
institutions,  it  is  depressing  to  note  that  there  are  at 
times pockets that seem to disturb the peace process in 
that  country.  We  must  continue  to  work  hard  to  find 
lasting solutions, because such instability affects peace 
and  prosperity,  not  only  in  Afghanistan,  but  also  in 
neighbouring States and the region. 

The  Kingdom  of  eSwatini  draws  hope  from  the 
promising  developments 
that  country 
continues  on  the  road  to  peace  through  restoration  of 
its important institutions for self-determination. 

Furthermore,  we  are  also  following  with  keen 
interest  efforts  to  ensure  peace  between  Israel  and 
Palestine.  We  are  pleased  to  note  the  concerted 
mediation  efforts  led  by  the  United  States  of America 
in  bringing  the  parties  together  in  pursuit  of  peace  in 
the  Middle  East.  We  support  this  process,  and  remain 
optimistic  that  it  will  reach  its  desired  conclusion,  so 
that  the  Israelis  and  Palestinians  can  live  together  in 
harmony.  In  order  to  concentrate  all  their  efforts 
towards development and peaceful coexistence, we call 
upon  them  to  reach  a  compromise  and  place  the  best 
interests of peace and security above everything else. 

Developments  in  cross-straits  relations  between 
the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  and  the  People’s 
Republic  of  China  continue 
to  be  a  source  of 
inspiration to us all. We note with appreciation that the 
Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  and 
the  People’s 
Republic  of  China  have  made  impressive  strides  to 
promote  mutual  understanding  leading  to  more  trade 
and  interaction  between  them.  I  am  happy  to  say  that 
Taiwan highly appreciates being allowed to participate 
as  an  observer  in  the  World  Health  Organization. 
in  Iraq,  as 
10-55103 

7 

A/65/PV.16 

Hopefully, this will also lead to Taiwan’s participating 
in  a  similar  manner  in  all  other  United  Nations 
agencies.  Of  particular  interest  is  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change. 

Our world today continues to be concerned about 
nuclear  proliferation  and  the  threat  that  weapons  of 
mass  destruction  pose  to  human  existence,  world 
peace,  economic  development  and  the  environment. 
The  spread  of  nuclear  weapons  makes  a  mockery  of 
our  efforts  for  world  peace  and  protection  of  the 
environment. 

It  is  a  disheartening  fact  that  currently  efforts  to 
ensure  accountability  and  compliance  with  United 
Nations resolutions are hindered by an apparent lack of 
impartiality  in  the  processes  meant  to  completely  rid 
the  world  of  deadly  nuclear  weapons.  I  call  upon  the 
United  Nations  to  strengthen  the  capacity  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  to  enable  the 
inspectors  to  do  their  work  more  effectively,  with  the 
involvement  of  all 
the  countries  with  nuclear 
capability. 

The  United  Nations  must  never  compromise  the 
implementation of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear Weapons;  it  must  ensure  that  all  countries, 
without exception, comply. Countries must be made to 
comply and be accountable within clear time frames. 
It is my suggestion that we eliminate all weapons 

of mass destruction, because they present an uncertain 
future.  Indeed,  we  need  a  fresh  start  so  that  we  may 
regain the moral high ground in deterring whoever may 
have ambitions for nuclear capability in the future. For 
example,  if  we  compel  everyone  to  dismantle  their 
nuclear  capacity  we  will  be  able  to  rein  in  other 
countries  which  may  still  be  developing  their  arsenal, 
without being accused of unfairness or bias. 

A  world  free  of  nuclear  and  other  weapons  of 
mass destruction will allow us to concentrate on issues 
of sustainable development. 

As a developing nation, the Kingdom of eSwatini 
is  following  with  keen  interest  the  issues  surrounding 
the  effects  of  climate  change. As  an  agriculture-based 
economy, 
is  also  a  victim  of 
environmental degradation. We therefore look forward 
to the climate change Conference to be held in Mexico 
later this year. I trust that the ongoing negotiations will 
result  in  agreements  acceptable  to  all  parties. What  is 
of paramount importance is for the developed world to 
the  Kingdom 

limiting  exportation  of 
honour  pledges  to  assist  developing  countries  in  their 
mitigation and adaptation efforts. 

It  is  a  known  fact  that  access  to  international 
markets for our products is one of the ways to grow our 
economies  in  our  quest  to  eradicate  poverty.  We  are 
encouraged  that  the  developed  nations  have  opened 
their  markets  for  some  products  from  developing 
countries.  We  look  forward  with  optimism  to  an 
amicable  conclusion  of  the  Doha  Round  of  talks,  an 
outcome  essential  to  boost  global  trade  and  economic 
recovery for the developing world. 

As  part  of  our  development  and  poverty 
alleviation  strategy,  the  Kingdom  is  ready  to  explore 
and  exploit  existing  and  emerging  markets.  Our  focus 
is  on 
raw  material  by 
emphasizing the production of finished goods. 

The Kingdom continues to promote equality in all 
sectors  of  our  development  spheres.  We  therefore 
welcome  the  recent  establishment  of  the  new  United 
Nations  entity  for  gender  equality:  UN  Women. 
Women  the  world  over  continue  to  play  key  roles  in 
contributing 
the  socio-economic  and  political 
development of our nations. 

We are meeting as a family of nations that seeks 
to promote peace and coexistence among all nations of 
the  world  and  bring  hope  for  the  future.  Our  people 
look  to  us,  as  leaders,  to  take  the  lead  in  promoting 
peace, as enshrined in the Charter. 
the 

challenges.  They 
include  poverty,  unemployment, 
disease and global warming, but the major challenge is 
to  make  peace  within  and  among  all  nations  happen. 
By finding solutions, we shall indeed guarantee a clear 
road 
sustainable 
development  by  all  the  nations  of  the  world. We  shall 
achieve that noble goal if we all reaffirm and adhere to 
the  central  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  global 
governance. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Head  of 
State of the Kingdom of Swaziland for the statement he 
has just made. 

  His Majesty King Mswati III, Head of State of the 
Kingdom  of  Swaziland,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
achievement  of 
towards 
We  must  find 
lasting  solutions 
to  all 
to 
the 
8 

10-55103 


the 


Address by Mr. Boris Tadić, President of the 
Republic of Serbia 

The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Serbia. 

  Mr.  Boris  Tadić,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Serbia,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 
the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Boris  Tadić, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Serbia,  and  to  invite  him 
to address the Assembly. 

President  Tadić:  I  stand  before  the  Assembly 
gratified and in a position to salute it for playing a very 
important part in the process towards reconciliation in 
my region, and for supporting the consolidation of the 
new,  modern  Serbia.  In  a  few  days,  we  will  proudly 
celebrate 
tenth  anniversary  of  our  peaceful 
democratic revolution. 

In  a  world  confronted  by  so  many  threats,  the 
United  Nations  must  constantly  reaffirm  its  original 
purpose  and  adapt  to  new  challenges.  The  United 
Nations has confronted, through its many agencies, the 
scourges  of  discrimination,  disease,  hunger,  poverty 
and  environmental  degradation.  In  other  words,  the 
United Nations has built a capacity to create rules that 
transcend frontiers, rules that we all respect. 

One thing that we have all embraced, as Member 
States  of  the  United  Nations,  is  the  wish  to  find 
solutions  to  all  challenges  through  peaceful  means, 
dialogue and consensus. 

I opened with a specific reference to the General 
Assembly. A few weeks ago it adopted by acclamation 
resolution  64/298,  proposed  by  Serbia  and  sponsored 
by  the  27  States  members  of  the  European  Union, 
acknowledging  the  content  of  the  advisory  opinion  of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  (ICJ)  regarding  the 
unilateral declaration of independence of Kosovo. 
The  resolution  is  fundamentally  status-neutral 

with  regard 
the  status  of  Kosovo.  All  other 
interpretations  do  not  correspond  to  the  truth.  The 
resolution  welcomed  the  readiness  of  the  EU  to 
facilitate  a  process  of  dialogue  between  the  parties. 
Serbia  welcomes  the  resolution.  We  look  forward  to 
engaging  in  the  process  that  will  hopefully  lead  to  a 
to 
A/65/PV.16

lay 
to 
the 
through 
mutually  acceptable  compromise  solution 
problem of Kosovo. 

  Mr.  Ould  Hadrami  (Mauritania),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair. 
We feel vindicated in our contention that the path 

to  dialogue 
the  natural  process  of 
international legitimacy. The General Assembly sought 
an opinion from the International Court of Justice. The 
ICJ  delivered  an  opinion.  The  General  Assembly  has 
now, as a consequence, called for dialogue. Moreover, 
that  request  comes  as  a  consequence  of  a  joint  effort 
between Serbia and the European Union. 

In the light of that, we sought reaffirmation of the 
validity of the international system as we know it. We 
feel  proud  that  our  faith  in  this  process  has  produced 
results.  We  have  always  said  that  we  are  ready  to 
engage  in  dialogue.  But  that  dialogue  must  be  framed 
by rules and accountability, and this has been achieved 
through the latest vote of the General Assembly. 

Many have been involved in this process, and we 
are grateful for the contributions of all those who in the 
debate on the draft resolution expressed understanding 
for the position of Serbia. Our issue has been the first 
test of the new post-Lisbon institutions of the European 
Union,  which  we  consider  our  natural  and  eventual 
home.  We  are  encouraged  by  the  commitment  and 
sense  of  purpose  of  the  leadership  of  these  new 
institutions. 

We  should  be  very  clear.  Serbia  has  always 
maintained  that  the  attempt  to  secede  unilaterally  is  a 
violation  of  the  basic  principles  of  the  Charter,  the 
Helsinki  Final  Act  and  Security  Council  resolution 
1244  (1999).  A  vast  majority  of  United  Nations 
Member  States  refrained  from  recognizing  Kosovo’s 
unilateral  declaration  of  independence.  They  have 
continued  to  abide  by  their  Charter  obligations  to 
respect  the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  my 
country.  On  behalf  of  the  Republic  of  Serbia,  I  once 
again  sincerely  thank  those  countries  for  their  support 
and solidarity. 

remains  unchanged.  The 
unilaterally declared independence of Kosovo will not 
be recognized by Serbia explicitly or implicitly. This is 
enshrined in our Constitution. We have repeatedly said 
that  we  seek  dialogue,  but  within  a  framework  of 
globally  acknowledged  law,  the  law  of  the  United 
Nations. For this reason, we insisted on the process of 
Serbia’s  position 
10-55103 

9 
the 
for  Provisional  Self-Government 
A/65/PV.16 

seeking  the  opinion  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  and 
subsequent  General  Assembly 
resolution related to the Court’s opinion. 

Let me be very clear as to what the Court did and 
did  not  say.  Its  advisory  opinion  reaffirmed  that 
Kosovo remains under the interim administration of the 
United  Nations,  and  that  Security  Council  resolution 
1244  (1999)  and  the  United  Nations  Constitutional 
Framework 
in 
Kosovo stay in force and continue to apply. That means 
that  this  part  of  our  territory  remains  subject  to  an 
international regime mandated by the Security Council. 

The  centrality  and  leading  role  of  the  Security 
Council  in  determining  the  comprehensive  settlement 
of  the  Kosovo  issue  remains  paramount,  and  will 
provide legitimacy to the result. The Court also did not 
endorse  the  view  that  Kosovo’s  unilateral  declaration 
of independence was sui generis — a unique case. Nor 
did  it  endorse  any  avowed  right  to  self-determination 
for the province’s ethnic Albanians. 

The  Court  chose  to  examine  the  language  of 
Kosovo’s  unilateral  declaration  of  independence,  and 
held the view that the text of the declaration itself did 
not  contain  anything  that  violates  international  law. 
The Court, thus, did not approve the province’s right to 
secession from Serbia, nor did it support the claim that 
Kosovo is a sovereign State. 

The  Court’s  opinion  is  clear:  the  unilateral 
declaration  of  independence  was  only  “an  attempt  to 
determine  finally  the  status  of  Kosovo”  (A/64/881, 
advisory  opinion,  para.  114).  The  General  Assembly 
resolution 
opinion 
acknowledged  this  content  of  the  Court’s  advisory 
opinion.  It  is  within  this  framework  that  we  are  ready 
to follow the Assembly’s resolution and to engage in a 
dialogue. 

We  are  now  ready  to  talk,  and  we  will  do  so  in 
good faith. Therefore, Serbia asks all Member States to 
engage fully in the spirit of their vote in the Assembly, 
in which they called for a dialogue to be facilitated by 
the European Union. 

A  dialogue  requires  trust.  Soon  the  two  parties 
will be talking to each other for the first time in many 
years.  We  must  be  patient  and  seek  out  those  issues 
which allow confidence to be built on each side. There 
will be many issues to discuss, and some of them will 
be complicated. 
the  Court’s 
relating 
to 

require 
legitimized, 
creative 
respect 
All  Member  States  can  contribute 

to  an 
atmosphere  that  creates  trust. We  are  entering  a  phase 
solutions 
in  which 
political 
imagination, 
for  our  own  democratic 
institutions and great skill. I trust that it can be a phase 
in  which  all  parties  leave  behind  them  anachronistic 
analyses and diplomatic ambushes. We must be able to 
build confidence to have trust. 

Serbia  believes  that  the  continued  pursuit  of 
recognition is futile and counter-productive to the spirit 
in  which  we  now  enter  this  phase.  All  those  who 
wanted  to  make  their  point have  made  it,  and  we  still 
do not have a clear settlement. I want to underline that 
it is of critical importance for Member States that have 
not  recognized  Kosovo’s  unilateral  declaration  of 
independence  to  stay  the  course  on  non-recognition 
throughout  the  dialogue  process.  That  will  be  a 
significant  contribution  to  ensuring  that  unilateral 
attempts  to  impose  outcomes  of  ethnic  and  territorial 
disputes  are  not 
thereby  preventing 
Kosovo’s  unilateral  declaration  of  independence  from 
becoming a dangerous and destabilizing precedent. 

Until  now,  statehood  has  never  been  attained 
without  the  consent  of  the  parent  State.  A  durable 
settlement  on  an 
issue  of  such  magnitude  and 
sensitivity has never been the product of compulsion; it 
always necessitates consent. 
It  would  be  equally  harmful  if  there  were 

attempts 
the  ground  while 
discussions get under way. Any attempt to change these 
realities  through  the  use  of  force  would  bring  an 
immediate end to the process of dialogue. 

I  address  the  Assembly  today  as  a  leader  who 
believes  that  the  future  lies  in  seeking  reconciliation. 
Our National Assembly adopted a historic Declaration 
on Srebrenica: a crime was condemned and an apology 
was  extended.  There  is  little  precedent  for  such  an 
action,  and  I  am  proud,  in  that  it  demonstrates  the 
maturity of the democracy of Serbia. 

I  hope  that  more  such  gestures  throughout  the 
region  will  help  us  create  a  new  region  in  which  our 
shared history will unite us morally rather than divide 
us  politically.  For  this,  surely,  is  the  foundation  upon 
which the future will be built. 

My  guiding  light  is  the  history  of  the  European 
Union. It should be for the entire region of South-East 
Europe.  The  European  Union  has  been  a  story  of 
to  alter  realities  on 
10 

10-55103 
through 
it 
its  own  changes, 


reconstruction  and  reconciliation.  That  story  is  not 
over.  The  Union  faces  its  own  challenges,  and  we  in 
our region must assume the responsibility of emulating 
it.  We  must  absorb  the  values  and  culture  of  today’s 
Europe in order that the Union absorbs us. 

This is a delicate exercise, in which expectations 
must be carefully nurtured. The EU is evolving. But so 
is our region. In this dynamic, we have to assume that 
the  European  Union  will  remain  true  to  its  word  that 
the  inhabitants  of  the  region  now  referred  to  as  the 
Western  Balkans  will  all  become  citizens  of  the 
European Union. It would be a geographical, historical 
and cultural aberration if this were not so. However, as 
the  region  goes 
is 
particularly sensitive to the signals that it receives from 
the  European  Union.  We  hope  that  as  the  new 
institutions  of  the  Union  take  shape,  we  will  have  an 
increasingly  clear  communication  from  and  with  the 
EU. 

It  is  also  true  that  our  region  is  changing.  To  a 
very large extent, it is changing to the good. We should 
recognize  the  many  new  levels  of  cooperation  that 
exist in our region. The Western Balkans — which has 
been  affected  by  the  financial  crisis  —  is  a  story  of 
many  small  and  larger  incremental  successes.  In  fact, 
relations  have  never  been  better.  But  the  region  must 
also acknowledge that as it develops its successes can 
generate new challenges. 

There  is  one  area,  therefore,  on  which  I  wish  to 
speak with a clarity that may be deemed undiplomatic. 
Organized crime is now a global industry. It is the dark 
side  of  globalization.  It  attaches 
to  weak 
societies.  It  attaches  itself  to  political  and  religious 
extremists. It attempts to buy and subvert democracies. 
Like water, it spreads to where it finds least resistance. 
It is global and globalized in its interconnections. 

Organized  crime, I want to state  emphatically, is 
in the Western Balkans. I consider it to be the greatest 
single  challenge  to  my  country  and  to  the  whole 
region.  It  always  has  been  present,  and  it  was  given 
solid  foundations  because  of  the  wars  in  our  region. 
But I fear that it is developing capabilities — acquired 
from 
to 
technology  —  at  a  much  faster  pace.  The  criminals 
concerned are bringing drugs, guns, human trafficking 
and corruption into our societies. In doing so, they are 
using  our  region  to  spread  into  Europe.  I  fear  that  we 
are  in  a  race  against  time  in  our  region.  The  stark 
the  globalization  of  crime  and  access 
itself 
A/65/PV.16
choice is that South-Eastern Europe will become either 
a valuable bridge between Europe and vital areas to the 
East  or  it  will  become  the  beachhead  of  organized 
crime trying to reach Europe. 

We  have  a  common  responsibility  as  leaders  in 
our  region  to  eliminate  this  scourge  on  our  societies, 
and Serbia will spare no effort in our quest to eradicate 
this threat. It is our responsibility to all our neighbours. 
For  this  reason  there  has  been  a  growing  number  of 
meetings and consultations between us in the region on 
this matter. 

But today I want to say that this issue cannot be 
addressed  tactically  and  occasionally.  It  is  a  strategic 
issue  that  affects  all  of  Europe.  I  am  therefore  asking 
that  we  all  become  alert  to  the  next  generation  of 
threat. 

In our region, we have a responsibility to create a 
strategic  alliance  against  organized  crime.  We  hope 
that  all  Western  Balkan  States  will  make  fighting  it  a 
priority. We owe this to our citizens, we owe it to our 
neighbours  in  the  European  Union,  and  we  owe  it  to 
the next generation. 

Serbia  has  historically  been  part  of  global 
movements.  That  is  why  we  are  totally  engaged  in 
achieving membership of the European Union. That is 
why  we  support  the  United  Nations  system.  It  is  also 
why  we  are  now  moving  to  reactivate  the  many 
relationships  that  we  built  historically,  as  part  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement (NAM). 

My country is the largest successor to a founding 
member  of  the  Movement.  Serbia’s  capital,  Belgrade, 
was  the  site  of  the  First  NAM  Summit  in  1961.  1  am 
proud  that  one  of  the  capstone  events  marking  the 
Movement’s  fiftieth  anniversary  will  be  celebrated  in 
Belgrade next September. 

As  part  of  our  commitment  to  the  Millennium 
Development Goals, we are strengthening many of our 
engagements and commitments worldwide through the 
Movement. We shall contribute to those countries that 
would  welcome  assistance,  and  we 
to  an 
intensification of cooperation. I hope that this is a clear 
signal that my Government believes in an active global 
engagement 
to  both  global 
solidarity  and  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 
that  will  contribute 
look 
10-55103 

11 

A/65/PV.16 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Serbia for the statement he 
has just made. 

  Mr.  Boris  Tadić,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Serbia,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 



to 
to 
of 
to  address 
invite  him 
Address by Mr. Desiré Delano Bouterse, President of 
the Republic of Suriname 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will hear an address by the President of the 
Republic of Suriname. 

President  Bouterse:  On 
the  people  of 
  Mr.  Desiré  Delano  Bouterse,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Suriname,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 
behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Desiré Delano Bouterse, President of the Republic 
of  Suriname,  and 
the 
Assembly. 
behalf 
the 

Government  and 
the  Republic  of 
Suriname,  I  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate 
Mr. Joseph  Deiss  on  his  election  to  preside  over  this 
sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  am 
pleased to see Switzerland, one of the newest members 
of 
this  high  office, 
especially  since  his  country  has  a  long-standing  and 
constructive  record  regarding  international  neutrality 
and respect for international order. I am convinced that 
his  diplomatic  experience,  as  well  as  his  well-known 
in-depth knowledge of current international issues, will 
enable  him  to  successfully  discharge  the  important 
responsibilities of his office. As one of the Vice-Chairs, 
Suriname  pledges  its  full  support  for  his  work  agenda 
for this session. 

Abdussalam  Treki  for  his  unwavering  efforts 
steering 
session. 

I  also  pay  tribute  to  the  Secretary-General, 
Mr. Ban  Ki-Moon,  for  his  leadership  and  guidance  of 
this  Organization  throughout  the  past  years  of  crisis 
and turbulence. 
I  wish  to  express  our  appreciation  to  Mr.  Ali 
in 
its  sixty-fourth 
the  Organization,  occupying 
the  Assembly’s  work  at 

It  is  a  great  honour  for  me  today  to  address  the 
Assembly, as a leader who recently received a mandate 
from  the  Surinamese  people  to  realize  sustainable 
economic  and  social  development  through  our  own 
efforts and with the support of all friendly nations. 

address the Assembly. I then stated: 

Twenty-seven  years  ago  I  had  the  honour  to 
“by the same token, we are dismayed by the fact 
that, in spite of the presence of the Organization 
on 
international  scene  for  almost  four 
decades, its lofty goal of creating an international 
order  based  on  respect  for  international  law  and 
the peaceful settlement of disputes seems today to 
be as elusive as ever”. (A/38/PV.28) 
the 
that 
refrain 
things  have  not 
from  using  military 
Today  we  can  conclude 
fundamentally changed. 

The challenge we face is that of striking a proper 
balance between full recognition of the sovereignty of 
the  individual  Member  States  of  the  United  Nations 
and the apparent need for global governance regarding 
the global issues that endanger the very survival of our 
planet  and  its  inhabitants. We  are  not  there  yet.  It  has 
become  obvious  to  Suriname  that  this  balance  can  be 
achieved  only  when  participants  in  the  international 
arena 
force  and/or 
economic  coercion.  We  have  even  seen  States  abuse 
their  own  legal  system  to  force  their  political  will  on 
another nation. 

Restricting ourselves to the Caribbean region, the 
Republic  of  Suriname  is  deeply  concerned  about  the 
persistence of the imposition for almost half a century 
of  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed  against  Cuba  with  the  aim  of  changing 
developments  of  that  nation’s  political,  economic  and 
social  road  map.  Those  coercive  measures  cause 
unnecessary  hardship  and  have  severe  effects  on  the 
rightful  development  and  well-being  of  the  Cuban 
people. Suriname therefore joins Member States which 
since  1992  have  consistently  been  calling  in  vain  for 
the  rejection  of  the  unilaterally  imposed  embargo 
against Cuba. As is the case on the national level, the 
international  community  will  prosper  only  when  all 
values  protected  by  the  rule  of  law  are  distributed 
equally, 
that 
characterizes international relations. 
notwithstanding 
asymmetry 
the 
12 

10-55103 



My  country  finds  itself  at  a  crossroads  in  its 
history.  The  electorate  gave  its  leaders  a  mission  to 
create  a  society  in  which  everyone  participates  and 
everyone  shares  in  what  the  country  has  to  offer, 
meeting  their  basic  material  means,  and  in  which 
solidarity  prevails.  The  aim  is  the  creation  of  a  just 
society  in  which  people  can  develop  themselves  to 
their  highest  potential  and  become  international  role 
models  and  leaders  in  areas  in  which  our  society 
excels.  No  one  will  be  left  behind  in  this  task  of 
nation-building. My Government pledges not to waste, 
but  to  protect,  our  national  inheritance  and  assets  for 
future  generations  and  the  world.  Moreover,  we  will 
seize  every  opportunity  to  generate  greater  national 
wealth. 
We will devote special attention to groups who in 

the  past  have  had  limited  scope  for  development.  In 
this  regard,  I  refer  to  our  indigenous  peoples  and  our 
countrymen living in tribal communities. Our intention 
is  to  gradually  break  the  cycle  of  their  isolation  and 
considerably improve their quality of life. 

When  we  look  at  the  many  national  challenges 
facing  us,  it  is  clear  that  our  task  will  not  be  easy.  In 
almost all sectors of the economy and society we have 
suffered  enormous  neglect,  and  there  has  been  a 
decline, stagnation and reversal of national growth. As 
a  result,  today  many  segments  of  our  society  have 
become  desperate  and  hopeless.  We  therefore  need  a 
bold  new  visionary  approach  to  give  our  people  what 
they  justly  deserve  as  co-owners  of  a  nation  endowed 
and blessed with so many riches. 

two  huge 
challenges  that  since  decolonization  have  haunted  and 
blighted our national destiny as a people. 
First,  we  must  dismantle  any  lingering  remnants 

of the colonial police State which blocks and obstructs 
the  establishment  of  a  free,  democratic,  constitutional 
State based on the pillars of an independent judiciary, a 
Government  free  of  corruption,  a  legislature  that  acts 
in 
the  people,  and  a  free  and 
independent 
honest 
committed 
dissemination of information. 
Another  major  challenge  that  we  face  is  the 

transformation of our society from an economy which 
is merely a source of profit for foreign interest groups 
into  one 
is  based  and  built  on  a  healthy 
interdependence.  Suriname  needs  a  new  national 
interests  of 
press 
However,  we  need 
to  overcome 
that 
the 
to 
the 
A/65/PV.16
on 
decisions 
technology 
responsible 
economic  approach  created  by  Surinamers  and  for 
Surinamers. 

We  realize  that  we  are  part  of  the  global 
community,  which  as  a  result  of 
is 
gradually  turning  into  a  global  village,  fostering 
intensive  relations  in  both  a  negative  and  a  positive 
sense.  Despite  all  the  resources  and  knowledge  at  our 
disposal,  we  are  still  faced  with  what  seems  an 
insurmountable challenge:  to rid the world of  extreme 
poverty, to ensure adequate education for our children, 
to stem the tide of infectious and other diseases, or to 
take 
environmental 
sustainability.  We  have  to  recognize  that  with  today’s 
interdependence  many  challenges  transcend  national 
borders  and  that  the  ability  of  countries,  in  particular 
developing countries, to make progress on many of the 
international  development  goals  does  not  merely 
depend  on  domestic  policy  choices.  An  international 
enabling  environment  in  this  regard  is  of  increased 
significance. 
Climate change is  a global threat that will affect 

developing  countries 
in  a  most  devastating  way. 
Suriname,  with  its  low-lying  coast,  belongs  to  the  top 
10  countries  which  will  be  seriously  affected  by  sea-
level  rise. This  is  ironic,  because  we  are  not  culpable 
for  the  excessive  levels  of  greenhouse  gases  in  the 
atmosphere,  but  we  are  about  to  bear  a  heavy  part  of 
the brunt. 

According  to  the  United  Nations  Environment 
Programme,  global  biodiversity  loss  is  high,  so  high 
that  2010  has  been  declared  the  International  Year  of 
Biodiversity  by  the  United  Nations  in  order  to  attract 
attention  to  this  global  problem.  In  this  respect, 
Suriname  could serve  as  an example  for the world, as 
its  laws  to  save  forest  and  biodiversity  date  from  the 
middle of the past century. We are proud to state here 
today  that  Suriname  is  rightly  called  the  greenest 
country on Earth for its 90 per cent forest cover. 

That having  been said, it is ironic that  a country 
such  as  Suriname,  with  such  a  good  environmental 
track record, is overlooked and that the world’s efforts 
are  concentrated  on  countries  that  are  using  their 
resources  unsustainably,  thereby  sending  the  wrong 
message globally. We believe that we should tackle this 
problem head on, starting at home, moving towards our 
immediate neighbours and from there to the subregion 
of  South  America  and  the  Caribbean,  thus  creating  a 
10-55103 

13 
rising 
incidence 
that,  we  promise 
the  Commonwealth, 
financial  crisis  and 
A/65/PV.16 

substantial force at the world forum dealing with the ill 
effects of climate change. 

It seems that the standing forest and the wealth of 
Suriname’s biodiversity are being taken for granted by 
the  global  community,  as  there  are  no  structures  in 
place  to  provide  incentives  to  continue  on  the  path  of 
sustainability.  Despite 
that  our 
choices  for  development  will  duly  respect  a  proper 
balance between nature and development. 

Various high-level meetings have been organized 
to address issues of common concern, such as the fight 
against  HIV/AIDS,  the  negative  effects  of  climate 
change,  arms  proliferation,  the  effects  of  the  global 
economic  and 
transnational 
organized crime and its associated ills. 

At  this  time  it  is  necessary  to  draw  special 
attention  to  the  issue  of  non-communicable  diseases, 
which is of great concern to all of us. The initiative of 
Caribbean  Community  leaders,  subsequently  endorsed 
by 
to  organize  a  high-level 
meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  in  2011  to  address 
the 
of 
important.  It 
non-communicable  diseases 
highlights  the  ever-growing  need  for  the  international 
community  to  join  forces  in  addressing  this  global 
barrier to development. 
are 

currently  not  a  part  of  the  indicators  for  assessing 
progress 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs), they undoubtedly have a 
negative  impact  on  those  Goals.  We  can  no  longer 
ignore 
crisis,  which 
disproportionately impacts the poorest people, pushing 
them  further  into  poverty  and  deprivation.  Therefore, 
the  global  development  agenda  needs 
include 
measures to address this problem, if we do not wish to 
jeopardize  the  accelerated  achievement  of  the  MDGs 
by 2015. 
We  are  aware  of  poverty  and  extreme  human 

suffering 
from  natural  disasters.  We 
empathize  with  the  peoples  of  Haiti,  Pakistan,  China, 
Chile  and  all  other  countries  where  major  weather 
patterns  have  wreaked  havoc.  Suriname  is  of  the 
opinion 
that  all  nations  should  effectively  and 
adequately  contribute  to  the  alleviation  of  the  dire 
needs of our fellow citizens of the world. These people 
deserve  more  than  expressions  of  sympathy;  they 
deserve to see that promises made to them are kept. 
the  achievement  of 
non-communicable 
and 
is  very 
prevalence 
this 
emerging 
health 
Although 
in 
resulting 
diseases 
to 



Finally,  we  want  to  share  our  thoughts  on  the 
structural causes of poverty and the resulting ill effects 
on  societies.  My  Government  believes  that  education 
related to survival skills and production is the only way 
to  effectively  eradicate  poverty.  Money  given  to  poor 
people  for  the  sake  of  one’s  own  conscience  is  an 
absolute waste. Accordingly, we ask ourselves whether 
we  should  continue  to  use  the  phraseology  “fighting 
poverty” or should instead start talking about pursuing 
wealth.  Therefore,  the  slogan  of  my  country  in  our 
lingua  franca  is:  “Broko  a  pina,  tek  yu  gudu”,  which 
means “Break away from poverty, by pursuing wealth”. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of 
the 
statement he has just made. 

  Mr.  Desiré  Delano  Bouterse,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Suriname,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
the  Republic  of  Suriname  for 


to 
Address by Mr. Malam Bacai Sanhá, President of the 
Republic of Guinea-Bissau 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 

Assembly will hear an address by the President of the 
Republic of Guinea-Bissau. 

  Mr.  Malam  Bacai  Sanhá,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Guinea-Bissau, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Malam  Bacai  Sanhá,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Guinea-Bissau,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly. 
President  Sanhá  (spoke  in  Portuguese;  English 

text  provided  by  the  delegation):  First,  I  congratulate 
Mr. Joseph  Deiss  on  his  election  to  preside  over  the 
Assembly  at  this  sixty-fifth  session.  I  am  convinced 
that  our  work  will  be  crowned  with  success  thanks  to 
his proven competence and experience. 

To the former President, Mr. Ali Treki, I express 
my  recognition  of  the  wise  manner  in  which  he 
conducted the Assembly’s work during its sixty-fourth 
session. 

the  Secretary-
General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  and  the  entire  United 
Nations team, the women and men who, on our behalf 
My  compliments  also  go 
to 
14 

10-55103 
in 
for 
resulting 


and on behalf of the nations and peoples of the world, 
work  throughout  the  four  corners  of  the  planet  to 
preserve  human  dignity,  in  which  are  expressed  the 
values  of  peace  and  security, 
the 
development of friendly relations among nations and in 
international  cooperation.  To  them  all  I  express  our 
respect  and  admiration 
their  courage  and 
selflessness. 

Similarly,  I  congratulate  the  Assembly  on  the 
recent adoption of resolution 65/1, on the achievement 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  10  years  after 
their adoption. This important document will certainly 
create  a  new  climate  for  the  achievement  of  the  eight 
Goals by 2015. 

My  compliments  to  all  those  present  are  also 
extended on behalf of the people of my country, which 
just  yesterday,  24  September,  celebrated  its  thirty-
seventh  year  as  a  sovereign,  independent  State.  The 
country has undergone a series of transformations, but 
we  must  recognize  that  there  remains  much  to  be 
desired  in  terms  of  meeting  legitimate  aspirations  for 
social  and  economic  progress.  Such  progress  would 
translate  into  improved  quality  of  life  and  well-being 
for  our  combatant  people,  on  whose  behalf  Amílcar 
Cabral  spoke  from  this  rostrum  more  than  40  years 
ago,  in  an  historic  statement  in  the  fight  against 
colonial domination. 

Thus at the present session, when the peoples of 
the  world  meet  to  evaluate  the  fulfilment  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  to  define  new 
strategies  to  achieve  them  by  2015,  Guinea-Bissau  is 
still  dealing  with  essential,  basic  factors  for  the 
achievement of goals that are so fair and that everyone 
deserves: stability, peace and security. 
Less than a year ago we  dealt with tragic events 

that  had  a  major  impact  on  Guinea-Bissau’s  internal 
and  external  image  and  led  to  early  presidential 
elections,  which  exactly  a  year  and  seven  days  ago 
resulted  in  my  starting  to  guide  the  country’s  destiny. 
The  heinous  acts  to  which  I  refer  were  unanimously 
condemned.  The  international  community  supported 
the country in its efforts to prepare and hold elections 
which  ultimately  were  considered  to  be  free,  fair  and 
transparent, and at the same time to consolidate peace 
and  internal  security,  particularly  with  reforms  of 
public  administration,  of  defence  and  security  and  of 
judicial power, and with support for the State budget. 
A/65/PV.16
people 
and 
is  now, 
their 
it 
democratically 
in  New  York;  and 

There  was  a  positive  trend  in  projecting  the 
image of the country and dealing with new challenges: 
the promotion of internal and institutional dialogue; the 
mobilization of development partners; the organization 
of  a  high-level  meeting 
the 
preparation of a planned donors’ round table, scheduled 
to  be  held  before  the  end  of  this  year,  to  discuss  the 
development of Guinea-Bissau. 

Unfortunately,  that  trend  contrasted  with  the 
incident of 1 April this year, which of course was to be 
condemned.  The  handling  of  the  incident  and  its 
consequences  did  not  receive  the  understanding  of  all 
the  partners  of  Guinea-Bissau,  despite  the  country’s 
authority  having  been  maintained  with  a  dynamic 
harmonization  at  the  local,  bilateral,  regional  and 
international  levels.  In  this  world  body,  let  me  appeal 
to  all  our  partners  to  proceed  in  the  same  spirit  of 
friendship,  solidarity,  assistance  and  cooperation  with 
our 
elected 
in  our  current 
institutions,  because 
circumstances,  that  our  country  most  needs  such 
support. 

The  reform  that  we  desire  in  our  defence  and 
security sector, for which we have sought international 
assistance, has become a  matter of prime urgency and 
extreme  sensitivity.  The  main  target  is  the  very  men 
and women who 40 years ago bartered their youth and 
education  —  in  other  words,  their  future  —  for  our 
national  liberation:  the  same  armed  forces  who  were 
then so applauded and admired for their determination 
and  courage  in  forging  the  freedom  and  independence 
of the peoples of Guinea and Cape Verde, as well as for 
their  intervention  in  other  theatres  of  war,  following 
their  international  vocation.  Today,  an  appropriate 
structure  to  attend  to  their  basic  needs  is  lacking, 
resulting in an erosion of dignity already won, and thus 
in a threat to the peace, stability and well-being of our 
people. 

Another  consideration  is  that  Guinea-Bissau  has 
an  insular  platform  comprising  more  than  80  islands 
and reefs, where a confluence of favourable waters and 
winds  creates  an  ideal  microclimate  for  much  of  the 
world’s  fauna,  in  what  could  and  should  be  a  true 
paradise.  Instead,  due  to  an  assumed  inability  of  the 
authorities to exercise effective control, there is a risk 
that  it  may  become  a  sanctuary  of  evil-doers  who  use 
and abuse the space and the local people, leading to a 
regrettable situation, giving us a terrible reputation and 
10-55103 

15 

A/65/PV.16 

potentially  compromising  the  proper  functioning  of 
Government institutions. 

The  Assembly  may  find  those  facts  frightening 
and  deserving  of  condemnation.  They  are  tragic  and 
completely  alien  to  the  people  of  my  country.  A 
coordinated  regional  and  global  response  is  needed  in 
order to take advantage of all the synergies that can be 
mobilized. 

However, to this body of nations, of which we are 
proud  to  be  an  integral  part,  we  bring  more  than  a 
lament in the hope of an appropriate response not only 
commensurate with the problems but at the level of the 
capacity  that  mankind  has  already  demonstrated.  We 
are  making  our  contribution  as  a  people  that  is 
confident, mobilized and determined, a people proud of 
its past and determined to reverse the current situation. 
We  bring  a  guarantee  of  multifaceted  involvement  in 
harmonizing  an  extensive  internal  dialogue,  whose 
foundations we have just laid jointly with the Guinean 
parliament:  an  initiative  on  ways  to  consolidate  peace 
and  development.  This  will  culminate  with  a 
conference  on  national  reconciliation,  to  restore  the 
promise of a positive and lasting commitment. 

Despite  the  current  serious  situation,  for  which 
we take full responsibility, we have never confused our 
internal  problems  with  those  of  our  friends,  and  we 
take great pride in our present stable relations with our 
neighbours.  Similarly,  we  are  proud  of  the  peaceful 
spirit  of  our  people,  who  never  blame  others  for  our 
own  problems  and  do  not  feel  any  animosity  towards 
the thousands of world citizens who continue to choose 
our country as a place in which to settle. 

instability  we  have 
nonetheless preserved some 15 per cent of our territory 
as  a  protected  area  and  nature  reserve,  as  has  been 
highlighted in particular by international organizations 
such  as  UNESCO, 
for 
Conservation  of  Nature  and  others.  That  is  a  major 
contribution  to  meeting  the  universal  concern  for  the 
preservation  of  biological  and  ecological  balance  in 
this  International  Year  of  Biodiversity,  within  the 
context of severe climate change that affects us all. 
So, we call urgently for the solidarity and support 

that Member States can give my people. We appreciate 
and express the warmest gratitude for the attention we 
have  received  from  our  regional  organization,  the 
Economic  Community  of  West  African  States 
(ECOWAS), headed by Nigeria, in the form not only of 
International  Union 
the  period  of 
During 
the 
Within 
the  same  framework,  we  salute 
stabilization initiatives, but also of concrete support for 
Government  programmes.  We  similarly  salute  the 
follow-up and attention provided by the Community of 
Portuguese-speaking Countries, which shows a spirit of 
determination at the bilateral and multilateral levels, as 
evidenced  by  the  restoration  of  a  climate  of  trust 
conducive to peace, stability and development. 

the 
contribution  of  Portugal  and  Brazil,  again  at  both  the 
bilateral and multilateral levels, to keeping the world’s 
attention  focused  on  giving  Guinea-Bissau  another 
chance.  This  extends  to  various  other  countries  and 
institutions  that  maintain  with  us  a  relationship  based 
on  partnership  and  cooperation.  I  think  particularly  of 
Senegal,  Libya,  China,  Cuba, 
the  United  States, 
France,  Algeria,  Morocco  and  South  Africa,  among 
others, as well as ECOWAS, the African Union and the 
European Union, along with the United Nations itself, 
through  the  United  Nations  Integrated  Peacebuilding 
Office in Guinea-Bissau. 
The unstable internal socio-political environment 

that  I  have  outlined  has  a  negative 
impact  on 
management  of  my  country’s  public  finances,  despite 
the  Executive’s  great  and  broadly  acknowledged 
efforts. This  means  that  our financial  situation  is  very 
difficult,  despite  some  recovery  in  our  growth  rate, 
which stood at 2.7 per cent in 2007 and 3.5 per cent in 
2008. 

The international crisis of 2009 had a small direct 
impact, and the country registered growth of 3 per cent 
thanks  to  a  good  agricultural  year.  The  increase  in 
international  basic 
in  2008 
accelerated inflation, which reached an annual average 
of 10.4 per cent, though it retreated in 2009. The good 
performance  in  2008-2009  in  the  export  of  cashew 
nuts,  representing  90  per  cent  of  exports,  led  to  an 
improvement  in  the  balance  of  payments,  including 
donations. 

However,  the  external  debt  burden  continued  to 
be unsustainable. At the end of 2009 it was equivalent 
to 126 per cent of the corrected gross domestic product 
and 640 per cent of exports of goods and services. The 
fact  that  we  were  unable  to  complete  the  Heavily 
Indebted  Poor  Countries  (HIPC)  Initiative  resulted  in 
an accumulation of delays in paying the external debt. 

In  2008  the  Government  concluded  with  the 
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF)  a  post-conflict 
programme,  later  extended  to  2009,  which  successive 
commodity  prices 
16 

10-55103 
A/65/PV.16




IMF  missions  evaluated  as  being  broadly  satisfactory. 
Hence,  on  7  May  this  year  the  IMF  Executive  Board 
approved  a  three-year  agreement  with  my  country 
based  on  a  credit  facility  which  will  cover  the  period 
2010-2012. 

The  public  administration  of  Guinea-Bissau  has 
earned  a  very  positive  evaluation  by  the  IMF  and  the 
World Bank,  which reflects the extraordinary  effort in 
fulfilling  the  programmatic  targets  set  with  regard  to 
cleaning  up  public  finances  and  regularizing  major 
expenses.  Therefore,  it  is  essential  that  partners  show 
no hesitation that might jeopardize the fulfilment of the 
decision-point requirements of the HIPC Initiative. 

We  are  coming  to  the  end  of  the  first  decade  of 
the  millennium,  which  had  been  declared  a  decade  of 
globalization,  with  the  promotion  of  a  lasting  peace 
and aimed at a new international order. We cannot slide 
backwards,  nor  can  we  show  weakness  in  the  face  of 
the challenge that we have set ourselves in addressing 
problems such as migration, human trafficking and the 
trafficking  of  organs  and  trying  to  find  ethically 
acceptable responses to them. 
We support the efforts being made to resolve the 

conflicts  in  the  Middle  East,  through  coexistence  of  a 
Palestinian  State  with 
the  State  of  Israel.  Our 
membership of the Alliance of Civilizations and of the 
Community  of  Democracies  in  particular  is  based  on 
the rules of peaceful coexistence among ethnicities and 
religions, and on the promotion of human rights. 

We support global efforts to rehabilitate Haiti and 
we  also  follow  with  great  attention  and  interest  the 
process  that  will  lead  to  the  restructuring  of  the 
Security  Council.  We  hope  that  this  will  result  in  a 
more  equitable  representation  of  the  world  and  be  a 
factor  in  the  ascent  of  the  African  continent  towards 
peace, democracy and development. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Guinea-Bissau  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

  Mr.  Malam  Bacai  Sanhá,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Guinea-Bissau, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall. 



to 
Address by Mr. Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed, 
President of the Transitional Federal Government of 
the Somali Republic 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the  Transitional  Federal  Government  of  the  Somali 
Republic. 

  Mr. Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed, President of the 
Transitional  Federal  Government  of  the  Somali 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Sheikh  Sharif  Sheikh  Ahmed,  President  of  the 
Transitional  Federal  Government  of 
the  Somali 
Republic, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 

President  Ahmed  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  the 
grand occasion of the general debate of  the sixty-fifth 
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  congratulate  the 
new President of the Assembly, Mr. Joseph Deiss, who 
is known for  his political skills and wise leadership.  I 
would  also  like  to  extend  my  appreciation  to  his 
predecessor,  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki,  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session,  for 
the able manner in which he led our work. I hope this 
successfully 
session  will 
produce 
recommendations  and  resolutions 
that  will  serve 
humanity and the world at large. 

I  further  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
strong  and  genuine  interest  in  and  commitment  to 
addressing  the  critical  international  issues  facing  the 
world, and Somalia in particular. 
This  annual  gathering  brings  together  world 

leaders  and  their  representatives  in  order  to  highlight 
positive  and  praiseworthy  accomplishments  and 
developments,  and 
identify  common  global 
challenges,  emerging  problems  and  their  causes,  and 
consequently to discuss and seek appropriate solutions 
for them. 

This  meeting  comes  at  a  critical  moment,  when 
our  contemporary  world  faces  a  series  of  challenges 
ranging  from  economic  crises  to  natural  disasters  and 
bloody  wars  that  threaten  international  peace  and 
stability,  as  well  as  other  international  issues  that 
require  timely  resolutions  and  serious  work  from  the 
end 
and 
to 
10-55103 

17 

and 
snow 
storms 
including 
the  violent  floods 
A/65/PV.16 

General Assembly to design strategies to avoid them in 
the future. 

In  our  world  today,  known  for  its  technological 
advancement  and  modern  science,  we  are  confronted 
by  many  challenges  resulting  from  climate  change, 
global  warming  and  their  effects,  such  as  devastating 
floods, drought, forest fires, landslides, desertification, 
earthquakes, 
so  on.  Such 
environmental  problems  have  occurred  recently  in 
many  countries, 
in 
Pakistan  and  China  and  the  destructive  forest  fires  in 
Russia,  alongside  other  problems  worldwide.  We  feel 
great  compassion  for  the  countries  affected  by  these 
natural  disasters,  and  we  must  cooperate  with  and 
provide them the assistance they need while we express 
our grief and condolences for their suffering. 

A  few  centuries  ago,  the  peoples  of  the  world 
suffered  from  the  horror  of  colonial  slavery,  injustice 
and oppressive cultures in which the strong preyed on 
the  weak,  as  well  as  from  horrific  wars  that  spared 
nothing. It was through the collective will of victorious 
nations  around  the  world  that  this  fine  institution  was 
established in 1945 in order to ensure lasting peace and 
security and to protect human rights, the sovereignty of 
nations  and  the  rights  of  people  to  self-determination, 
as well as justice, freedom of thought and expression. 

However,  65  years  since  its  inception,  we  must 
ask  ourselves  whether  the  world  is  more  secure  or 
nations  are  more  at  peace  with  one  another.  Has 
humankind  attained  its  ambition  of  a  good  life, 
development  and  sustainable  prosperity?  The  answer, 
clearly,  is  no.  We  see  destructive  wars  being  fought 
throughout the world, causing the suffering of millions, 
as well as the horrors of global terrorism, especially in 
the developing world. 

Somalia  is  the  weaker  link  in  this  scenario  and 
therefore  suffers  from  the  worst  kinds  of  international 
terrorism  perpetrated, 
inter  alia,  by  Al-Shabaab, 
Al-Qaida and the foreign criminal elements supporting 
them.  Al-Qaida  boasted  of  its  responsibility  for  the 
horrible  acts 
in  Mogadishu  on 
3 December 2009 at the Benadir University graduation 
ceremony,  where  many  graduating  doctors  died  at  a 
time  when  the  country  needed  them  most.  Professors, 
ministers,  families  and  guests  also  died  at 
that 
ceremony. 
that  occurred 
These  beastly  massacres 
the  African  Union  headquarters 
Other  heinous  acts  include  the  explosion  at  the 

Muna  Hotel, 
in 
Mogadishu,  as  well  as  the  explosion  in  Kampala, 
Uganda, which killed over 70 innocent people who had 
come  to  watch  the  World  Cup  match  that  was  then 
taking place in South Africa. 

carried  out  by 
Al-Shabaab and Al-Qaida terrorists turn the stomach of 
any  person  with  a  conscience.  This  movement  carries 
out such acts in Mogadishu and other Somali cities on 
a  daily  basis,  in  plain  public  sight  and  in  places  of 
worship,  killing  Somali  civilians,  hacking  off  their 
limbs,  hands  and  ears  and  cutting  their  throats.  It  has 
also  carried  out  unspeakable  crimes  against  humanity, 
such as cutting off the heads of victims and disposing 
of  them  somewhere  else.  It  has  also  committed  rape 
and theft and caused great damage to property. 

This movement does not believe in Somalia as a 
nation  and  does  not  support  the  creation  of  a  national 
Government in Somalia; rather, it seeks to establish the 
Horn of Africa as a terrorist hub that is managed by its 
Al-Qaida  partners  and  whose  intention  is  to  wreak 
havoc on the entire region and the world beyond. 

type  of 
terrorism  —  piracy,  perpetrated  by  pirates  and 
extremist  movements  in  the  Red  Sea  and  the  Indian 
Ocean — threatens navigation and sea trade. Maritime 
terrorism 
land-based 
terrorism;  many  United  Nations  Member  States  have 
had their ships hijacked by pirates who attack merchant 
or  passenger  vessels  and  then  blackmail  them  and 
demand  millions  in  ransom.  While  military  convoys 
attempt  to  protect  shipping  in  the  Indian  Ocean,  they 
are unable to uproot this ongoing threat or eliminate its 
root causes. 

There is a close connection between those pirates 
and  armed  extremist  elements  in  Somalia.  Such  ships 
can  be  destroyed  at  any  time  and  their  crews  killed 
rather  than  be  held  for  ransom.  All  of  this,  again, 
requires a solution to the problems in Somalia, because 
the root causes of these problems lie not at sea but on 
land.  No  partial  solution  to  the  problems  of  Somalia 
can  succeed  no  matter  how  strong  and  effective  it  is; 
only  a  comprehensive  solution  of  these  problems  will 
work. 

The President returned to the Chair. 
less  dangerous 
land,  another 
terrorism  on 
Besides 
is  no 
than 
18 

10-55103 
the 
for 
together 
terrorism, 
of 
terrorism 
locally, 
I  would  also 
like 
regionally 
in  confronting 
to  draw  attention 
including  Al-Qaida 
further  opportunities 
the  health  of  Somalia’s  citizens  and 



to  a 
phenomenon  even  more  dangerous  to  the  Somalis  in 
the long term than piracy. This is illegal fishing and the 
dumping of toxic waste along the Somali coast, which 
harm 
its 
environment. We have already begun to see symptoms 
and illnesses that did not previously exist in Somalia. 

One function  of the General Assembly is to deal 
with  hotbeds  of  tension  and  threats  to  international 
peace and security. I therefore appeal to world leaders 
to  stand 
threat  of 
international 
and 
Al-Shabaab,  as  well  as  organized  crime.  We  must 
eliminate  this  scourge  so  that  it  will  not  expand  and 
worsen, and bear in mind that any delay or compromise 
will  provide 
terrorism, 
prolong its life and allow it to spread. Beyond this, we 
need  to  solve  the  political,  economic  and  social  root 
causes 
and 
internationally. 
After  many  years  of  dispute  and  conflict,  the 

Somali  parties  met 
in  Djibouti  and  reached  an 
agreement,  endorsed  by  the  international  community, 
that  led  to  the  creation  of  a  broad-based  national 
Government  that  included  all  the  conflicting  parties 
who participated in the Djibouti peace conference. This 
Government  has  inherited  a  heavy  burden  and  many 
challenges  and  obstacles,  but  it  has  managed  to 
shoulder  those  responsibilities.  However,  it  continues 
to wage a bitter struggle against such hostile elements 
as  Al-Qaida  and  its  allies,  Al-Shabaab  and  Hizbul 
Islam. 

Here, we should note that the Transitional Federal 
Government (TFG), while only in its second year, has 
managed to counter and repel these enemy attacks and 
to  achieve  reconciliation  and  several  agreements  with 
members of Hizbul Islam and Ahlu Sunna Wal Jama’a. 
Thus the TFG has achieved some success in its goals, 
especially  following  its  recent  ministerial  change, 
which brought in members of Ahlu Sunna Wal Jama’a, 
who have been assigned important ministerial positions 
in  the  new  Government.  I  note  that  the  national 
reconciliation achieved in Djibouti remains a strategic 
choice for us, and we reach out to all those who desire 
peace and security in Somalia. 

We have  also formed strategic plans in  the areas 
of  politics,  security  and  social  reform.  We  must 
produce  a  public  budget 
that  covers 
for  2010 
A/65/PV.16
to 
intended  for 
implement  because 
rehabilitate  Government  ministries 
economic,  political  and  social  affairs  and  State 
management  expenses,  as  well  as  reconstruction.  We 
must 
and 
institutions  and  economic  structures,  such  as  the 
central  bank,  and  encourage  a  free-market  economy. 
We  must  provide  food  and  humanitarian  assistance  to 
the  needy  and  those  displaced  by  river  floodings, 
drought  or  desertification.  This  plan  has  been 
particularly  difficult 
the 
Al-Shabaab  movement  has  blocked  the  distribution  of 
humanitarian aid and food to the areas it controls, and 
has  raided  and  stolen  from  aid  organizations  and 
hijacked  vehicles  carrying  food 
the 
hungry. 

We must further create opportunities to empower 
young people to play leadership roles, and furnish them 
with  the  skills  necessary  to  manage  Government 
institutions. We need to increase the skills and abilities 
of  Government  employees  and  foster  a  spirit  of 
sacrifice  for  the  homeland  and  devotion  to  work  and 
transparency  in conducting the country’s business. We 
must  build  capacity  in  the  security  sector  and  train 
police and security forces to protect the Somali people 
and  their  independence  and  territorial  integrity.  We 
need to prepare a permanent constitution that can serve 
as the foundation for law, democracy and the guarantee 
of  basic  human  freedoms.  The  constitution  will  be 
submitted for a referendum so that it can be applied as 
soon  as  possible.  We  must  revitalize  our  judicial 
institutions  and  train  judges  and  legal  assistants,  as 
well  as  reconstruct  and  rehabilitate  support  centres 
such as police stations, criminal courts and prisons. We 
should  create  an  environment  conducive  to  dialogue, 
reconciliation,  negotiation  and  collective  work,  and 
halt  the  continuing  violence  in  Somalia,  which  has 
lasted  more  than  two  decades  now,  so  that  peace  and 
security  can  be  restored.  Finally,  we  must  end  the 
internal  disputes  that  continue  to  erupt  within  our 
national  institutions  —  for  instance,  among  members 
of Parliament — and resolve them peacefully. 

These  are  but  a  few  of  the  issues  that  we  have 
selected  from  among  the  many  on  which  our  strategic 
plans  are  focused.  However,  a  shortage  of  funds, 
resources  and  expertise  hinders 
from 
implementing  many  of  them.  From  this  rostrum,  I 
appeal  to  the  world’s  leaders  and  the  international 
community to continue to come forward to help us stop 
the  bloodshed  in  Somalia  and  to  provide  us  with  the 
the  TFG 
10-55103 

19 

A/65/PV.16 

emergency  assistance  necessary  to  save  our  citizens 
and Government, especially in the following areas. 

First, in the field of security, the Somali security 
forces need to be armed and trained in an effective way 
so that they are capable of taking the security initiative 
in  their  country,  and  provided  with  the  salaries  and 
health care they need if they are to protect citizens and 
establish Government authority throughout the country. 

Second,  the  African  Union  forces  in  Somalia 
must be strengthened and reinforced by the addition of 
new forces. 

Third,  a  military  strategy  must  be  designed  and 
implemented  by  the  United  Nations,  including  the 
dispatch  of  an  international  force  to  Somalia  with  the 
purpose  of  restoring  security  and  stability  throughout 
the country. 

the  Security  Council  should  adopt 
Fourth, 
resolutions  aimed  at  saving  Somalia  and  liberating  it 
from Al-Qaida  and  any  other  terrorist  movements  that 
conspire  against  the  restoration  of  peace  and  security 
there.  On  the  political  front,  we  would  also  ask  for 
continued  United  Nations  support  for 
the  TFG, 
allowing  it  to  remain  a  focal  point  for  reconciliation 
between 
the 
international  community.  The  TFG  should  also  be 
given  the  support  it  needs  to  discharge  its  duties  and 
manage its budget, so that it can stand on its own two 
feet and carry out its economic projects and extend its 
authority throughout the country. 

Fifth, the Somali Government should  be assisted 
in  rebuilding  the  infrastructure  that  was  destroyed  in 
the civil wars. 
should 

reconstruction  and 
participate  and  assist 
rehabilitation  of  Somali  State  institutions,  such  as 
schools, hospitals and educational centres. 

and its faltering institutions developed. 

Finally, I would like to extend my gratitude to the 
international  community  for  its  assiduous  efforts  to 
restore  peace  and  stability  in  Somalia.  Nevertheless,  I 
would like to point out that all that has been offered to 
date  is  still  not  commensurate  with  what  Somalia 
deserves. Somalia is a country that has lost everything, 
including  its  State  infrastructure.  We  hope  that  the 
international  community  will  assume  its  humanitarian 
Seventh,  the  Somali  economy  must  be  promoted 
international  community 
the  various  parties 
in  Somalia  and 
Sixth, 
the 
the 
in 


the 
that 
turn 
its  promises  and 
is  also  our  hope 
responsibility towards our country and assist in ending 
its  suffering,  which  has  now  entered  its  twenty-first 
international 
year.  It 
community  will  fulfil 
its 
resolutions  and 
recommendations  —  past  and 
present — into actual, implementable deeds. 

I would especially like to thank the Governments 
of Uganda and Burundi, which have sent their troops to 
Somalia  to  bring  peace  to  the  situation  there.  I  would 
also like to thank the Governments of the United States 
of America  and  the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain 
and  Northern  Ireland,  the  European  Union  and  the 
brotherly Arab States, as well as the African Union, all 
of  which  have  contributed  to  security  and  stability  in 
my country. Our thanks also go to the international and 
regional  organizations,  including  the  United  Nations, 
for  their  support. We  hope  that  we  will  all  succeed  in 
restoring  security  and  stability  very  soon  because  the 
continued 
is 
unacceptable. 

In  conclusion,  I  pray  to  God  that  the  efforts  of 
this  session  of  the  General Assembly  will  be  crowned 
with  success  and  that  Somalia  will  attend  the  next 
session having resolved its chronic crisis. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Transitional  Federal  Government  of  the  Somali 
Republic for the statement he has just made. 

  Mr. Sheikh Sharif Sheikh Ahmed, President of the 
Transitional  Federal  Government  of  the  Somali 
Republic,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
the  Somali  people 
suffering  of 
from 
Address by Mr. Haris Silajdžić, Chairman of the 
Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Chairman  of  the 
Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 

  Mr.  Haris  Silajdžić,  Chairman  of  the  Presidency 
of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was escorted into the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Haris Silajdžić, 
and 
Chairman  of 
Herzegovina,  and 
the 
Assembly. 
the  Presidency  of  Bosnia 
to  address 
invite  him 
to 

20 

10-55103 
then,  and 
I 
to 
thank 
feel  obliged 


Mr.  Silajdžić:  It  is  an  honour  to  address  the 

General Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session. Allow  me 
to  express  my  gratitude  to  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki 
for having ably presided over this body during the past 
year  and  to  congratulate  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss  on  being 
elected the new President of the General Assembly. 

Fifteen  years  ago,  the  Dayton  Peace  Agreement 
ended  the  aggression  in  and  brought  peace  to  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina.  My  country  has  come  a  long  way 
since 
the 
Governments,  organizations  and 
individuals  who 
assisted us in travelling down this road. 

When we asked the General Assembly to support 
us  in  becoming  a  member  of  the  Security  Council,  it 
honoured us with almost unanimous support, for which 
we offer our thanks. That support demonstrated that the 
Assembly  holds  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  in  high 
esteem, and we are proud of that. As a member of the 
Security  Council,  we  are  doing  our  best  to  meet  the 
Assembly’s expectations and honour its trust. 
Thanks  to  the  generous  assistance  of  many 

and 
Governments 
of 
Herzegovina 
reconstruction  relatively  quickly,  particularly  in  the 
light of the level of devastation. But the rebuilding of 
our  devastated  society  has  proved  to  be  much  more 
difficult.  From  1992  to  1995,  an  age-old,  genuinely 
multicultural  society  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  was 
brutally  and  intentionally  torn  apart  by  force.  Half  of 
the population of Bosnia and Herzegovina had to leave 
their  homes 
lives.  Some 
1,300,000  of 
remain  outside  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina.  Systematic  obstructions  were  the  cause 
of  failure  of  return  programmes,  and  they  are  still  an 
obstacle to those who want to return. Those who made 
it  back  to  their  homes  are  often  confronted  with 
blockade  walls  or  with  outright  violations  of  basic 
rights.  That  makes  the  restoration  of  our  pluralist 
society the single most difficult task ahead of us. 

upcoming 
constitutional  changes  will  lay  a  foundation  for  the 
new  generation  to  be  able  to  bridge  the  divides.  No 
matter  what,  we  will  continue  to  revive  the  pluralist 
character and tolerant spirit of our society because we 
strongly believe that cultural pluralism is humankind’s 
most precious treasure.  
A  healthy  economy  can  be  a  powerful  tool  for 

achieving  that  goal.  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  is  a 
represented 
completed 
the  main 
in  order 
to  save 
their 
remains 
that 
But 
hope 
them 
here, 
Bosnia 
process 
the 
A/65/PV.16
the  other  hand,  our  rising 
country  rich  in  water  and  other  energy-generating 
resources.  We  have  undertaken  studies  and  invited 
international  investors  to  participate  in  developing 
these resources. Once completed, these projects will be 
the  driving  engine  of  our  economy,  enabling  us  to 
make  progress  in  other  areas,  such  as  health  care  and 
social services. 

We  continue  to  develop  our  infrastructure  and 
agricultural  resources,  but  not  at  a  desirable  pace. 
Although  generally  improved,  our  education  system 
remains  in  some  aspects  hostage  to  divisive  political 
influences.  On 
trade 
activities have resulted in improving our relations with 
the countries in the region, and great opportunities can 
be  unlocked 
through  more 
intensive  and  more 
confident regional cooperation. 

As  is  the  case  in  other  societies,  our  greatest 
resource  is  our  youth,  educated  in  our  country  and 
abroad,  and  ready  to  take  over  once  our  economy  is 
able  to  absorb  their  skills  and  talents.  I  am  confident 
that,  in  the  coming  years,  employment  opportunities 
will grow in proportion to the development of the vast 
untapped resources of Bosnia and Herzegovina. 

Defence  reform  is  commonly  seen  as  one  of  our 
greatest  post-Dayton  successes  because  it  resulted  in 
unified, modern armed  forces. Here again, we have to 
express  our  appreciation  to  our  friends  and  allies 
whose assistance made this achievement possible. In a 
short amount of time, our armed forces have managed 
to  earn  the  trust  and  respect  of  the  United  Nations 
through their participation in peacekeeping missions. 

Like everywhere else, the citizens of Bosnia and 
Herzegovina  desire  peace,  stability  and  prosperity,  as 
well  as  a  better  future  for  themselves  and  their 
children. There is great potential for development, and 
opportunities  are  there  to  be  seized.  Yes,  there  are 
reasons for optimism, but there are reasons for concern 
too. 
Our progress is hindered by the remnants of those 

who  still  believe  in  the  completion  of  the  political 
project that brought catastrophe not only to Bosnia and 
Herzegovina,  but  to  the  whole  region.  In  short,  they 
think  that  the  world  has  forgotten  the  atrocities 
committed  against 
the 
concentration camps, the rape camps and the genocide. 
After hundreds of thousands of non-Serb civilians were 
killed  and  expelled  from  one  part  of  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina,  they  are  now  publicly  calling  for  the 
the  civilian  population, 
10-55103 

21 
in 
They  will,  however, 
the  Hague.  What  a  monument 
A/65/PV.16 

secession  of  that  part.  They  hope  and  dream,  as  they 
say, that the world will somehow recognize that entity 
as  an  independent  State.  Instead  of  feeling  shame, 
these  disciples  of  Milošević,  Karadžić  and  Ratko 
Mladić are now ready to come and ask the international 
community  to  reward  the  genocide  in  Srebrenica, 
Prijedor,  Zvornik,  Sarajevo,  Mostar  and  other  sites  of 
horrific  crimes  for  which  Karadžić  is  now  being  tried 
at  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former 
Yugoslavia 
to 
inhumanity that would be! 

Of  course,  they  will  not  succeed.  They  can  no 
longer  count  on  the  mighty  armies  of  Slobodan 
Milošević because those armies were defeated through 
our  heroic  struggle.  They  do  count  on,  as  they  say, 
favourable geopolitical circumstances. But they fail to 
take  one  thing  into  account,  as  Milošević  did.  Bosnia 
will be defended. 

continue  obstructing 
progress  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  and  they  will 
found 
continue  destabilizing 
inspiration 
the 
international  community,  whose  patience  they  have 
been  testing  for  the  past  15  years.  So,  our  collective 
resolve  to  prevent  the  escalation  and  opening  of  fresh 
wounds  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  is  being  tested 
again. We must not fail this time. 

This dangerous adventurism aside, I believe and I 
know that the train of progress cannot and will not be 
stopped. There is no doubt in my mind that Bosnia and 
Herzegovina  and  our  entire  region  will  maintain 
stability  and  achieve  prosperity  in  the  coming  years, 
thus  fulfilling  the  dreams  and  desires  of  every  one  of 
our citizens. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly I wish to thank the Chairman of 
the  Presidency  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

  Mr.  Haris  Silajdžić,  Chairman  of  the  Presidency 
of Bosnia and Herzegovina, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall. 
region.  They 
response  of 
inadequate 
in 
the 
the 


The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will now hear an address by the Prime Minister of the 
Republic of Slovenia. 

  Mr.  Borut  Pahor,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic 
of Slovenia, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  great 

pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Borut 
Pahor, Prime Minister of the Republic of Slovenia, and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly. 

Mr.  Pahor  (Slovenia):  I  am  indeed  honoured  to 
address  this  Assembly  for  the  first  time  as  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Slovenia.  I  reaffirm  my 
country’s  commitment  to  the  United  Nations  and  its 
Charter. 

Let  me  also  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fifth  session.  We  all  rely  on  your  political 
wisdom  and  experience,  and  I  assure  you  of  my 
country’s  utmost  support  in  the  coming  weeks  and 
months. 

In  the  past  few  years,  numerous  national  leaders 
have  spoken  in  this  very  Assembly  about  new  global 
challenges  that  threaten  our  security,  prosperity  and 
freedom.  There  is  a  general  consensus  that  more 
effective  and  coordinated  global  action  is  required  to 
address  such  challenges.  For  Slovenia,  strengthening 
global  governance  means  renewing  our  common 
commitment  to  multilateralism  and  its  principles  of 
inclusion, legitimacy and transparency. 
The  United  Nations  must  keep  its  place  at  the 

core  of  global  governance  structures.  However,  this 
Organization  also  needs  to  adapt  to  the  contemporary 
reality  of  an  interconnected  world  and  the  resulting 
new challenges and threats. As many of my colleagues 
have  already  said,  reform  of  the  United  Nations  has 
been 
the 
Security Council is visibly out of date and the work of 
the General Assembly needs revitalization. Progress in 
peacekeeping reform would strengthen all other United 
Nations  activities  relating  to  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security,  including  preventive 
diplomacy and post-conflict peacebuilding. 

international  economic  and 
financial systems must continue at an accelerated pace, 
reflecting  global  development  needs.  Our  endeavours 
should  aim  at  increasing  accountability,  responsibility 
and solidarity, while taking into account the need for a 
long  undervalued.  The  composition  of 
The  reforms  of 
10-55103 


Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate 


  Address by Mr. Borut Pahor, Prime Minister 
of the Republic of Slovenia 

22 



stronger  voice 
for  and  better  participation  of 
developing  countries,  which  should  be  fully  included 
in the international response to the crisis. Together, we 
must  build  a  world  in  which  economic  indicators  are 
not the  only  measure of  a  prosperous society. Human, 
social  and  environmental  values  should  also  become 
principal elements of our criteria. In this connection, I 
encourage closer cooperation and coordination between 
the United Nations and the Bretton Woods institutions 
and between the United Nations and the Group of 20 in 
finding the best possible responses to the crisis and in 
addressing the needs of the most vulnerable. 

It  is  unfortunate  that,  as  a  result  of  far-reaching 
developments,  we  continue  to  face  an  even  greater 
challenge in climate change. Indeed, the past year has 
been a year of lost opportunities. However, this should 
not be a reason to lower our ambitions. Climate change 
is  real,  the  loss  of  biodiversity  is  unprecedented and 
the  consequences  are  already  being  felt  by  far  too 
many people around the world. In some cases, the very 
existence  of  individual  countries,  States  Members  of 
the United Nations, is at stake. This year, we must do 
better and do more in Cancún to reach a comprehensive 
post-2012  climate  agreement  that  will  limit  global 
warming  to  below  2°C,  as  stated  in  the  Copenhagen 
Accord,  and improve  adaptation to the  adverse effects 
of  climate  change.  Our  responsibilities  differ,  but  we 
must all shoulder our share of the common burden. 

After the fall of the Berlin Wall, the countries of 
Western  Europe  decided  to  open  their  ranks  to  the 
States  of  Central  and  Eastern  Europe.  This  decision 
was  instrumental  in  building  a  modern  Europe  of  key 
democratic values. The choice of enlargement of Euro-
Atlantic  institutions  was  thus  a  choice  for  stability  on 
the continent. 

Unfortunately,  the  financial  and  economic  crisis 
and  international  debates  in  many  European  States 
pushed aside some of the topics that are important and 
of  strategic  interest  to  the  continent  as  a  whole.  The 
need  for  a  continued  process  of  enlargement  of  the 
European  Union  and  NATO  is  one  of  them.  I  would 
therefore  like  to  underline  that  the  commitment  to 
enlargement  to  the  Western  Balkans  needs  to  be 
honoured, and all the more so since the situation in the 
region  today  has  changed  for  the  better.  Obvious  and 
tangible progress has been made. 

a  couple  of  weeks  ago 
In this connection, I would like to recall that only 
this  Assembly  adopted 
A/65/PV.16
is 
the  Western  Balkans 
resolution  64/298  by  consensus,  acknowledging  the 
content  of  the  advisory  opinion  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice,  which  was  rendered  in  response  to  a 
submitted  request  on  the  issue  of  the  declaration  of 
independence  of  Kosovo.  I  am  particularly  glad  that 
the  resolution  paved  the  way  for  dialogue,  which  the 
European Union is ready to facilitate. It is the historic 
responsibility  of  the  democratically  elected  leaders  of 
the  countries  of 
to  pursue 
reconciliation and the rebuilding of mutual trust. 

In  order  to  promote  the  necessary  confidence,  I 
therefore decided, together with the Prime Minister of 
Croatia,  to  launch  the  so-called  Brdo  process  several 
months  ago  in  Slovenia.  I  think  the  results  and 
consequences  of  this  decision  have  so  far  been  very 
good.  Our  aim 
to  encourage  dialogue  and 
cooperation among the political leaders with a view to 
discussing mutual support and further steps on the road 
to  the  Euro-Atlantic  integration  of  the  entire  region.  I 
believe  that  we  are  on  the  right  track,  and  we  will 
continue to work in this direction. 

Slovenia plays an  active role in the international 
community  and  takes  its  responsibilities  seriously.  I 
would  therefore  like  to  confirm  once  again  our 
dedication  to  our  candidacy  for  a  non-permanent  seat 
on  the  Security  Council,  for  the  period  of  2012-2013, 
at the  elections to be held next year in  this Assembly. 
Slovenia  views  its  candidature  as  an  opportunity  to 
contribute  further  to  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security,  as  well  as  the  peaceful  settlement 
of  disputes.  We  intend  to  build  on  our  international 
commitments  and  experience  gained  in  recent  years. 
We are committed to upholding the rule of law, respect 
for  human  rights,  international  law  and  international 
humanitarian  law,  and  we  continue  to  foster  open  and 
transparent  international  dialogue  in  the  spirit  of 
cooperation and consensus-building. 

Our  candidature  therefore  underscores  the  great 
significance Slovenia attaches to the role of the United 
Nations in an increasingly interdependent and complex 
world.  Furthermore,  it  indicates  Slovenia’s  desire  to 
utilize  its  rich  multilateral  experience  to  enhance  the 
goals  and  principles  of  this  universal,  international 
Organization. 

Finally, let me say once more how honoured I am, 
as the Prime Minister of Slovenia, to be present in this 
Assembly. Extraordinary historical circumstances have 
shaped 
the  development  of  my  country,  which 
10-55103 

23 




A/65/PV.16 

therefore  attaches  great  importance  to  the  constant 
promotion  of  the  noble  purposes  and  principles  of 
international relations, as defined in the Charter of the 
United Nations. I am therefore all the more pleased to 
have  been  able  to  participate  in  the  general  debate 
devoted  to  the  reaffirmation  of  the  central  role  of  this 
Organization in global governance. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 
the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Slovenia for the statement 
he has just made. 

  Mr.  Borut  Pahor,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic 
of Slovenia, was escorted from the rostrum. 
  Address by Mr. José Socrates, Prime Minister 
of the Portuguese Republic 

The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 
will now hear an address by the Prime Minister of the 
Portuguese Republic. 

  Mr.  José  Socrates,  Prime  Minister  of 
the 
Portuguese Republic, was escorted to the rostrum. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  great 
pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  José 
Socrates,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Portuguese  Republic, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly. 

Mr.  Socrates  (Portugal)  (spoke  in  Portuguese; 
English  interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  I 
wish  to  begin  by  congratulating  you,  Sir,  on  your 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly.  The 
Assembly  is  the  central  body  of  the  United  Nations 
architecture.  Here,  all  Member  States  are 
truly 
represented and each has a vote, irrespective of its size, 
population  or  economic  power.  Here  is  where  the 
central decisions that determine the functioning of the 
other  bodies  are  made.  Here,  we  are  all  permanent 
members,  embodying  the  principle  of  the  sovereign 
equality of all States. 

Here in the General Assembly, Portugal is guided 
by  the  objective  of  doing  its  best  to  strengthen  the 
United  Nations.  There  are  no  true  alternatives  to  the 
Organization. Its unique role in managing international 
relations is more evident than ever, and it is our duty to 
further enhance this role in order to attain a progressive 
and solid strengthening of the United Nations. I repeat, 
there  are  no  alternative  mechanisms  to  the  United 
Nations.  For  this  reason,  all  Member  States  should 
work to reinvigorate the Organization. 

in 
cooperation 
international 
The  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security, 

Portugal  is  guided  by  the  principles  of  national 
independence,  respect  for  human  rights,  equality 
among  States,  peaceful  solutions  to  conflicts  and 
international  cooperation  as  the  main  elements  that 
drive  development  and  the  progress  of  humankind. 
These  principles  are  all  inscribed  in  the  Portuguese 
Constitution. 

These are also the purposes and principles of the 
United Nations Charter. Allow me to underline some of 
them,  which  today  are  more  important  than  ever: 
maintaining 
the 
development  and  progress  of  all  peoples,  friendly 
relations  among  all  nations  based  on  sovereign 
equality, 
solving 
economic,  cultural  and  humanitarian  crises  and  the 
promotion of human rights and fundamental freedoms. 

international  peace  and 
security, is surely one of the noblest of our objectives. 
The  Charter  defines  the  way  we,  the  United  Nations, 
should  act  together  to  prevent  or  remove  threats  to 
peace and how to respond to acts of aggression or other 
violations of our universal principles. 
Portugal has been an active contributor to United 

Nations peacekeeping  and peacebuilding operations in 
Europe,  Asia,  Africa  and  Oceania.  Our  efforts  have 
always been global and generous. Tens of thousands of 
Portuguese  have  participated  in  peace  operations.  We 
are  now  present  in  places  as  diverse  as  Afghanistan, 
South  Lebanon,  Timor-Leste,  the  Western  Balkans, 
Chad and the Democratic Republic of Congo. 
We  participate  in  United  Nations  peacekeeping 

operations  and  other  missions  according  to  our  means 
and, quite frequently, above and beyond what our size, 
would require. Nevertheless, we continue doing it with 
the  firm  conviction  that  collective  security  calls  for 
collective  efforts.  Moreover,  the  United  Nations  can 
continue to count on the Portuguese contribution to this 
collective endeavour. 
Looking at the present challenges to international 

peace and security, allow me to refer to the situation in 
the  Middle  East,  a  conflict  involving  many  negative 
influences in the relations between several peoples and 
cultures. The coming year will be critical to the peace 
process.  The  choice  is  clear:  peace  or  a  return  to 
instability. 

We  welcome  the  return  to  direct  negotiations 
aimed at reaching a two-State solution. We all have to 
24 

10-55103 
to 
support 
reconstruction 
the  creation  of  an 
in  Lisbon,  with  a  view 


join  efforts  for 
independent, 
democratic,  contiguous  and  viable  Palestinian  State 
living side by side, in mutual peace and security, with 
the State of Israel. 

I  would  also  like  to  mention Afghanistan  where 
the  international  community  has  assumed  a  firm 
commitment 
and 
development. The results of the Kabul Conference will 
have  to  be  complemented  at  the  upcoming  NATO 
summit 
to  ensuring  a 
sustainable  transition  process,  mainly  led  by  the 
Afghans themselves. 

International peace and security require effective 
multilateral  action  among  United  Nations  bodies. 
Effective multilateralism needs to be based on working 
structures  with  which  every  Member  State  feels 
comfortable.  The  United  Nations  is  indispensable.  It 
alone is capable of confronting global threats, it alone 
has  the  capacity  to  respond  to  acute  natural  disasters, 
as  we  have  seen  in  several  recent  situations,  like  the 
Haitian earthquake or the Pakistan floods, and it alone 
can  effectively  shelter  and  feed  millions  of  refugees 
worldwide,  thanks  to  the  outstanding  work  of  the 
Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees, led by 
António  Guterres,  one  of  the  most  distinguished 
Portuguese political leaders. 

It  is  especially  urgent  to  reform  the  United 
Nations and to adapt it to today’s international realities. 
Any  reform  must  be  based  on  the  objectives  that 
inspired  its  creation.  Its  pivotal  place  at  the  centre  of 
the  international  architecture  has  to  be  preserved,  for 
the  United  Nations  is  the  only  forum  where  no  one 
feels  excluded, 
the  only  body  where  all  States, 
including small and medium-sized countries, have their 
own  voice  and  their  own  say  in  solving  global 
problems. 

Peacebuilding 
The 
Commission — an idea put forward by Portugal — was 
a  significant  step  in  the  reform  process.  But  we  also 
have to look at the Security Council with a view to its 
enlargement. I sincerely believe that we can all succeed 
in 
it  more 
representative, more efficient and more transparent. 

  Mr.  Ould  Hadrami  (Mauritania),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair. 
the  Council  and  making 
reshaping 
establishment 
of 
the 
A/65/PV.16
of 
The 
(MDGs) 
implementation 

In  our  view,  it  is  illogical  that  countries  like 
Brazil  or  India,  which  have  an  irreplaceable  role  in 
today’s  international  economic  and  political  life,  are 
still not permanent members of the Security Council. 

Africa,  as  well,  has  to  be  considered  in  this 
enlargement of the permanent membership. It is of the 
utmost  importance  that Africa  be  fairly  treated,  given 
the remarkable political and economic progress we all 
have witnessed on that vast continent — continent with 
which  Portugal  feels  a  permanent  affinity.  It  is  only 
natural  that  we  have  been  so  closely  linked  to  the 
strengthening  of  relations  between  Africa  and  the 
Europe  Union  (EU),  having  hosted  the  summit  in 
Lisbon  where 
the  Joint  Africa-EU  Strategy  was 
designed.  We  are  now  looking  forward  to  the  third 
Africa-EU summit.
the  Millennium 

Development  Goals 
is  urgent.  Let  me 
congratulate the Secretary-General and the members of 
the  General  Assembly  on  the  results  achieved  at  the 
recent High-level Meeting. We are firmly committed to 
applying the agreed political vision to mobilize efforts 
to meet the targets over the next five years. 

International  stability  cannot  be  achieved  and 
maintained  without  economic  and  social  prosperity 
worldwide.  The  present  economic  and 
financial 
situation  shows  that  we  all  benefit  from  common 
solutions to global problems. In this context, I call for 
a  reinforced  participation  of  developing  countries  and 
regional  groupings  and  communities 
in  ongoing 
debates,  including  the  reform  of  the  international 
financial  organizations  and  their  interaction  with  the 
United Nations system. 

Another  field  where  interdependence  urges  us  to 
act jointly is climate change. It is a matter of survival. 
We shall do our part to ensure that the Cancún summit 
is a step in the right direction. Portugal has consistently 
worked  to  reduce  its  carbon  footprint  by  investing 
solidly  in  renewable  energy.  I  am  proud  to  be  able  to 
announce  that  we  have  already  met  the  target  that  my 
country  announced  here  last  year.  Portugal  is  already 
producing  45  per  cent  of  its  electricity  from  local 
renewable  sources,  and  by  2020  it  intends  to  reach 
66 per  cent.  It  now  holds  the  fifth  place  in  Europe  — 
and  in  the  world  —  in  terms  of  use  of  renewable 
energy.  It  has  the  largest  wind  park  in  Europe  —  and 
the  second  largest  in  the  world  —  and  it  holds  the 
record  for 
the  highest  amount  of  wind  energy 

10-55103 

25 

international  community 
A/65/PV.16 

generated.  It  has  the  largest  photovoltaic  park  in  the 
world  and  is  a  leader  in  the  area  of  electric  vehicles. 
Portugal  is  now  considered  one  of  the  10  most 
promising countries for energy investment. 

Portugal has been sharing this experience and this 
knowledge with a number of developing countries, and 
we  continue  to  intensify  this  cooperation  through 
concrete  partnerships  and  technology  transfer  and 
knowledge,  supporting  efforts  towards  adaptation  and 
mitigation, in accordance with the commitments made 
in  Copenhagen.  Some  of  our  partners  are 
least 
developed  countries  and  small 
island  developing 
States. They are among those that pollute the least but 
suffer  the  most  from  climate  change.  It  is  urgent  that 
the 
take 
the  necessary 
measures to reduce their vulnerability. 

This  year  marks  the  beginning  of  the  United 
Nations  Decade  for  Deserts  and  the  Fight  Against 
Desertification. Portugal recognizes the right to water, 
as well as the right to education, adequate housing and 
health. Ensuring that every human being has access to 
drinking  water  and  adequate  sanitation  is  also  a  good 
way  of  accelerating 
the 
Millennium Development Goals. 

My  country,  an  independent  State  for  almost 
1,000 years, commemorates this year the centennial of 
the  Portuguese  Republic.  We  are  today  a  democracy 
with  solid  credentials  in  terms  of  human  rights  and 
their  promotion  worldwide.  We  firmly  believe  in  the 
rule  of  law  and  have  learned  through  our  own 
experience that peace and prosperity are attainable only 
when they are truly and freely shared by all States. 

Portugal  is  also  a  country  that  is  accustomed  to 
listening  to  its  partners.  We  are  members  of  the 
European  Union, 
the 
the  Atlantic  Alliance,  and 
Portuguese-speaking  Countries, 
Community 
of 
currently  presided  over  by  Angola,  which 
I 
congratulate.  Portuguese  is  the  fifth  most  widely 
spoken  language  in  the  world  and  is  present  on  all 
continents. Portugal also participates in the Alliance of 
Civilizations,  a  forum  that  is  at  the  forefront  of  the 
much-needed  intercultural  dialogue  among  regions, 
which  is  ably  led  by  Jorge  Sampaio,  former  President 
of my country. 

Portugal’s  action  at  the  United  Nations  is  rooted 
in  our  capacity  for  open  dialogue  with  every  Member 
State  and  in  our  ability  to  build  bridges  and  forge 
consensus.  We  always  seek  to  defend  our  values 
implementation  of 
the 
in 
through  dialogue,  not  by  imposing  our  views.  Our 
attitude is not driven by any temporary need to please 
some  constituencies.  We  aspire  to  be  judged  by  our 
actions.  This  is  our  motivation  for  seeking  active 
participation in all United Nations bodies for which the 
composition is rotational. 

This universal vision of dialogue and openness to 
the  world  characterizes  our  current  candidature  for  a 
non-permanent seat on the Security Council. 
We  belong  to  the  United  Nations  because  we 

its  values,  objectives  and 
strongly  believe 
universality;  because  we  maintain  that  mutual  respect 
should  be  the  cornerstone  of  international  action;  and 
because  we  think  that  the  strengthening  of  the  United 
Nations  and  its  activities  is  surely  one  of  the  most 
noble  and  idealistic  objectives  of  all  those  who,  like 
the Heads of State and Government participating here, 
strive each and every day to achieve a better world. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Portuguese  Republic  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

  Mr.  José  Socrates,  Prime  Minister  of 
Portuguese  Republic,  was  escorted 
from 
rostrum. 
  Address by Mr. Jan Peter Balkenende, Prime 
Minister and Minister for General Affairs  
of the Kingdom of the Netherlands 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 
Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  General  Affairs  of  the 
Kingdom of the Netherlands. 

  Mr.  Jan  Peter  Balkenende,  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister for General Affairs of the Kingdom of the 
Netherlands, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  have 

great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jan 
Peter  Balkenende,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for 
General  Affairs  of  the  Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Balkenende  (Netherlands):  The  Headquarters 

of the  United Nations is  currently undergoing a major 
renovation, and that is a good thing. It is good because 
the  building  no  longer  meets  the  requirements  of  the 
new century. In the meantime, work goes on as usual, 
the 
the 




26 

10-55103 


and  here  we  all  are,  discussing  the  big  issues  of  the 
day. 

Of  course,  the  parallel  is  obvious.  The  United 
Nations  system  itself  has  now  reached  a  certain  age 
and  is  also  in  need  of  renovation.  And  in  this  sense, 
too, the day-to-day work of the United Nations must go 
on, for we cannot afford to take a break from tackling 
the global problems we face. The United Nations may 
be  under  renovation,  but  it  still  has  to  stay  open  for 
business. 
It  was  65  years  ago  that  the  United  Nations  was 

established  in  San  Francisco.  There,  and  at  Bretton 
Woods,  the  world’s  leaders  laid  the  foundations  for  a 
multilateral  system  that  would  be  built  upon  the 
smoking  ruins  of  the  Second  World  War.  This  system 
has demonstrated its usefulness, but it is based on post-
war realities, not on the international balance of power 
and the global problems of today. 
I  use  the  word  “renovation”,  because  we  do  not 

need to build from scratch. Over the past 65 years, the 
system  has  more  than  proved  its  worth.  There  is 
nothing  wrong  with  the  foundations  or  the  basic 
structure.  Besides,  experience  has  taught  us  that  a 
practical step-by-step approach is a more effective way 
to reform a large organization than reliance on a “big-
bang”  strategy.  Or,  as  Dag  Hammarskjöld,  one  of  the 
great  leaders  of  the  United  Nations,  put  it,  “Constant 
attention by a good nurse may be just as important as a 
major operation by a surgeon”. 

Today, I would like to look briefly at three of the 
core tasks of the United Nations in order to show how 
the Dutch Government views various concrete reforms 
in  practical  terms. Those  tasks  relate  to  human  rights, 
the  international  legal  order,  and  peace  and  security. 
Let  me  begin,  however,  with  the  background  to  these 
renovations,  using  my  own  experience  as  a  guide, 
starting with the question of why they are necessary. 

In human terms, 65 years is often an age at which 
we start to take things easier. Unfortunately, that is not 
an  option  for  the  United  Nations,  for  despite  all  our 
efforts, 
and 
development  are  still  not  guaranteed  for  everyone.  In 
fact,  since  the  United  Nations  was  established,  the 
global  challenges  facing  us  have  only  grown  larger. 
Consider  the  climate  crisis,  or  the  energy  and  food 
crisis,  or  the  international  economic  crisis  that  has 
shown  so  clearly  how  closely  connected  everything  is 
in our time. We need each other more than ever before, 
certainty 
security, 
peace, 
legal 
A/65/PV.16
thanks 
replaced 
the  word 
lagging  far  behind, 
and  we  need  the  United  Nations  as  the  organization 
uniting us more than ever before. 

In  this  light,  I  applaud  the  choice  of  theme  for 
this  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General  Assembly: 
“Reaffirming the central  role of the United Nations in 
global governance” — although I must confess I would 
have 
“reaffirming”  with 
“recovering”, because ground has clearly been lost, as 
has  become  especially  apparent  in  the  last  few  years. 
The Group of 20, and not the United Nations, has taken 
the  lead  in  tackling  the  economic  crisis,  for  example. 
The United Nations Climate Change Conference could 
have delivered more if the world had been able to unite 
behind the tough decisions. And where the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  are  concerned,  we  see 
mixed  results.  A  lot  has  been  achieved,  but  on  some 
Goals  we  are 
to  a 
fragmented and defective international aid architecture. 
We  discussed  this  earlier  in  the  week  at  the  MDG 
summit. 

What  these  examples  show  is  that  the  United 
Nations  is  losing  its  position  —  and  its  convening 
power — as the obvious global platform for discussion 
and decision-making. It pains me to say that. However, 
I  also  have  every  faith  that  the  United  Nations  can 
continue  in  the  future  to  claim  its  vital  role  as  the 
world’s overarching governance organization. 

In  my  view,  the  end  of  the  cold  war  freed  the 
United Nations from a long period of confrontation and 
stagnation.  In  its  wake  the  international  agenda  was 
redefined with great speed and vigour. Relatively new 
topics like the environment and climate change, social 
themes and gender issues began to claim our attention. 
The international legal order was strengthened by new 
international tribunals, the International Criminal Court 
and  a  growing  number  of  peace  missions  under  the 
United  Nations  flag  —  and  of  course,  in  setting  the 
MDGs at its Millennium Summit (resolution 55/2), the 
United Nations showed how ambitious it can be. 

The  United  Nations  is  only  able  to  achieve  such 
things because every country is involved and everyone 
has  a  voice.  That  is  the  power  of  the  United  Nations, 
but also its greatest weakness. Inclusion does not only 
foster  legitimacy  —  the  unique  selling  point  of  the 
United  Nations.  It  also  leads  to  sluggish  decision-
making,  politicized  relationships  and  a  bureaucratic 
structure that lacks transparency. I believe that anyone 
10-55103 

27 

A/65/PV.16 

familiar  with  the  international  circuit  over  the  past  10 
years will recognize this picture. 

It  is  often  said,  “If  the  United  Nations  did  not 
exist  it  would  have  to  be  invented”  —  and  indeed,  a 
global  organization  with  universal  membership  is 
essential.  Still,  no  matter  how  representative  an 
organization may be, it will lose its relevance if it does 
not  deliver  sufficient  results.  In  short,  legitimacy  and 
effectiveness are two sides of the same coin. 

The  Dutch  Government  is  convinced  that  the 
United  Nations  can  improve  its  effectiveness  and 
decisiveness  and  so  increase  its  legitimacy  and  public 
support.  This  can  be  done  by  utilizing  the  United 
Nations  and  its  process  to  solve  problems  and  by 
putting  practical  considerations  first  when  problems 
are tackled. The Netherlands wants to see that happen 
and  will  work  to  make  it  happen.  We  will  do  so  as  a 
founding  Member  of  the  United  Nations  but  also 
together  with  our  partners  in  the  European  Union,  of 
which  we  also  are  a  founding  member.  The  European 
Union is strongly committed to the United Nations, and 
we subscribe to its contributions to secure the future of 
the United Nations. 

That brings me to the first of the three core tasks 
I  mentioned  at  the  start  of  my  speech:  human  rights. 
This, without question, is an area in which the United 
Nations has achieved great success in setting standards, 
with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights as an 
unshakeable  basis.  Unfortunately,  though,  it  still  falls 
short in enforcing those standards. We still hear reports 
every day of torture, unfair trials, curbs on freedom of 
expression  and  other  human  rights  violations.  The 
Dutch  Government  considers  it  unacceptable 
that 
people, often women, are still being stoned to death in 
2010.  We  must  continue  to  resist  this  practice  with 
every ounce of our being. 

The Dutch Government urges that the capacity of 
the  human  rights  machinery,  and  particularly  the 
Human Rights Council, be strengthened. To start with, 
a  clear  division  of  tasks  between  the  Human  Rights 
Council  and  the  Third  Committee  of  this  General 
Assembly is needed. Overlap and lack of clarity make 
it too easy for some regimes to distract attention from 
human rights violations. The Netherlands will press for 
clarity. 

Of course, human rights are closely related to the 
international  legal  order,  the  second  area  I  want  to 
touch on. As you know, this is a subject very close to 
to 
cooperation  on 
investigations 
increasing  compliance  with 
the  Netherlands’  heart.  The  city  of  The  Hague  is  not 
only the centre of Dutch democracy, it is also known as 
the  legal  capital  of  the  world  —  and  we  are  proud  of 
that. More important, though, of course, is the fact that 
the  international  institutions  based  in  The  Hague  are 
sending a clear message with the work they undertake. 
The  international  community  will  not  allow  human 
rights  violations  and  crimes  against  humanity  to  go 
unpunished.  That  applies 
the  various  ad  hoc 
tribunals,  such  as  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal 
for  the  Former  Yugoslavia.  It  also  applies  to  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  and  of  course  the 
International Criminal Court (ICC). 

Over  the  last  20  years  international  criminal  law 
has developed at an impressive rate. Today, those who 
commit the most terrible crimes, wherever in the world 
they may be, know that their chances of being called to 
account  are  growing  by  the  day.  Now  we  must  act 
boldly. We must strengthen these institutions’ visibility, 
credibility and authority. We can do that by improving 
and 
international 
prosecutions,  by 
the 
relevant  Security  Council  resolutions  and  by  pushing 
for  as  many  countries  as  possible  to  sign  the  Rome 
Statute and to conduct themselves according to both its 
letter  and  its  spirit.  With  that  in  mind,  I  say  that  it  is 
unacceptable  to  the  Dutch  Government  that  someone 
like President Al-Bashir of the Sudan, against whom an 
arrest  warrant  is  outstanding,  should  be  allowed  to 
move freely in a country that is an ICC partner. 

In closing, I would like to say a few words about 
the broad topic of peace and security. At this moment, 
there  are  some  100,000  people  taking  part  in  United 
Nations  peace  missions  around  the  world.  So  no  one 
can deny that the United Nations plays a leading role in 
this  area  —  and  rightly  so,  because  it  is  precisely  in 
matters  of  war  and  peace  that  legitimacy  and  resolve 
are  most  essential.  Such  legitimacy  and  resolve  can 
only  be  provided  by  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Security Council. 

We  saw  only  recently,  in  the  incident  involving 
the Republic of Korea’s naval ship, the Cheonan, how 
difficult and shaky the position of the Security Council 
can  sometimes  be.  On  the  one  hand,  the  Council 
condemned  the  attack  unanimously  and  in  strong 
terms, and that has to be applauded. On the other hand, 
the  Council  remained  silent  on  the  question  of  blame, 
which  is  an  extremely  hard  thing  to  bear  for  the 
survivors and the victims’ loved ones. 
28 

10-55103 
immediately 
that  countries 
the  price  of  greatness 



It is precisely in order to guarantee the legitimacy 
and strength of the Security Council in the future that 
the Dutch Government continues to support reforms of 
the  Council  that  reflect  the  geopolitical  realities  of 
today  and  not  of  1945.  Naturally,  the  exact  substance 
of those reforms is still open to debate. But it is clear 
to the Netherlands that there should be more room for 
more  countries  to  join  the  discussions  and  exert 
influence:  room  for  large  countries  that  in  1945  were 
not  yet  large  enough  or  were  not  yet  Members  of  the 
United Nations; but also room for smaller nations that, 
as troop-supplying countries or as interested parties in 
a  particular  region,  should  have  the  right  to  speak.  I 
would  add 
that  want 
influence  should  realize  that  this  entails  financial, 
political  and  moral  obligations.  Or,  in  the  words  of 
Winston  Churchill, 
is 
responsibility. 

I have briefly sketched why the United Nations is 
in need of renovation. I hope I have made clear that its 
relevance  is  tied  not  only  to  its  legitimacy  but  also  to 
its effectiveness. And I have suggested the direction the 
renovation might take in three specific areas. One thing 
I  have  not  yet  done,  however,  is  to  reaffirm  that  the 
Netherlands,  in  keeping  with  its  long  international 
tradition,  will  continue  to  work  for  quality  in  the 
United  Nations  system. Together  with  others,  together 
with  all  represented  in  this  Hall,  we  will  work  in  the 
knowledge  that  this  renovation,  like  all  our  activities, 
requires  us  to  pool  our  resources.  Or,  as  the  United 
Nations  Charter  says:  “unite  our  strength”  and 
“combine  our  efforts”.  Let  those  words  inspire  us  in 
the work that lies ahead. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime Minister and Minister for General Affairs of the 
Kingdom  of  the  Netherlands  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made. 

  Mr.  Jan  Peter  Balkenende,  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister for General Affairs of the Kingdom of the 
Netherlands, was escorted from the rostrum. 
  Address by His Excellency Mr. Mahmoud 
Abbas, Chair of the Executive Committee  
of the Palestine Liberation Organization and 
President of the Palestinian Authority 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the Chair of the 
the  Palestine  Liberation 
Executive  Committee  of 



A/65/PV.16
and  President  of 
the  Palestinian 
Organization 
Authority. 


of 
the 
Palestine 
  Mr.  Mahmoud  Abbas,  Chair  of  the  Executive 
Committee 
Liberation 
Organization  and  President  of  the  Palestinian 
Authority, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  have 

in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
great  pleasure 
Mr. Mahmoud  Abbas,  Chair  of 
the  Executive 
Committee  of  the  Palestine  Liberation  Organization 
and President of the Palestinian Authority, and inviting 
him to address the Assembly. 

Mr. Abbas (Palestine) (spoke in Arabic): It gives 
me  pleasure  to  congratulate  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss  on  his 
election  to  the  presidency  at  this  session  and  to  wish 
him every success in fulfilling his important tasks. We 
would also like to convey through you, Sir, our thanks 
to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki  for  his 
valuable  efforts  during  his  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-fourth session. 

We  would  like  also  to  express  our  thanks  and 
appreciation  to  His  Excellency  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon  for  his  tireless  efforts  in  strengthening  the 
role  and  work  of  the  United  Nations  and  its  bodies  in 
various  fields.  In  particular,  we  greatly  appreciate  his 
efforts,  and  those  of  the  United  Nations  entities, 
especially 
the  United  Nations  Relief  and  Works 
Agency for Palestine Refugees in the Near East, which 
continues  to  work  to  provide  essential  services  to 
Palestinian  refugees,  who  have  been  waiting  for  more 
than  60  years  for  redress  of  their  plight  and  the 
realization  of  their  right  to  return  to  their  homes  and 
properties. 

I  am  well  aware  that  the  agenda  of  the  General 
Assembly is filled with matters and issues of pressing 
concern  to  the  entire  human  race  and  to  our  planet, 
particularly  those  relating  to  armed  conflict,  wars  and 
the  struggle  of  people  under  foreign  occupation  to 
realize  their  right  to  self-determination,  as  well  as 
climate  change,  global  warming,  natural  disasters  and 
the global economic and financial crises. 

All  of  this  is  happening  at  a  time  when  we  are 
witnessing  rightful  demands  for  the  revitalization  of 
the United Nations, particularly reform of the Security 
Council  aimed  at  making  it  more  representative  and 
truly  reflective  of  the  current  international  situation. 
This  is  especially  important  in  the  light  of  the 
10-55103 

29 
them 
towards 
in 

investment 
these  resolutions; 
A/65/PV.16 

emergence  of  new  Powers,  which 
should  be 
represented in the Security Council in order to enhance 
its  role  and  effectiveness  in  maintaining  international 
peace and security. 

There  is  also  significant  discontent  over  some 
States’  non-compliance  with  Security  Council  and 
General  Assembly  resolutions.  This  demands  that  the 
international  community 
take  vigorous,  effective 
measures  to  compel  those  countries  to  respect  and 
implement 
to  end  colonization, 
occupation  and  exploitation  in  our  world  so  as  to 
promote  the  values  of  freedom,  justice,  tolerance  and 
coexistence;  and  to  combat  extremism  and  terrorism. 
Indeed,  the  United  Nations  has  a  fundamental  role  to 
play in promoting cooperative relations among peoples 
and  guiding 
the 
development of societies and infrastructure, as well as 
in  fighting  poverty,  unemployment,  desertification, 
disease  and  epidemics  and  the  lethal  human  and 
environmental  risks  they  pose  for  humanity  and  the 
future of our planet. 

Our  people,  our  homeland,  Palestine,  and  our 
region,  the  Middle  East,  are  facing  extremely  serious 
problems that continue to push them towards violence 
and  conflict,  wasting  chance  after  chance  to  seriously 
address  the  issues  faced  by  the  peoples  of  the  region 
and to arrive at comprehensive and bold solutions. This 
is  the  result  of  the  expansionist  and  hegemonic 
mentality that still prevails in the ideology and policies 
of Israel, the occupying Power, whose standard policy 
is  non-compliance  with 
legitimate 
resolutions,  including  those  of  the  General  Assembly 
and the Security Council. Such disrespect has rendered 
those 
the 
credibility  of  the  United  Nations  and  bolstered  the 
prevailing  view  that  double  standards  are  in  effect, 
particularly regarding the Palestinian question, and that 
Israel  is  a  State  above  the  law,  flouting  all  these 
resolutions  and  engaging 
in  oppression,  arrests, 
detentions,  killings,  destruction,  demolition  of  homes, 
blockades, settlement expansion and the establishment 
of 
the  annexation  apartheid  wall,  violating  and 
undermining the existence and the rights of our people 
in their own homeland. 

The ancient city of East Jerusalem, capital of the 
independent  State  of  Palestine  and  designated  by 
UNESCO as a world heritage site requiring protection, 
is  being  subjected  by  Israel,  the  occupying  Power,  to 
actions  that  alter  and  distort  realities  on  the  ground. 
internationally 
undermined 
ineffective, 
resolutions 
is 
to 
to 
in  addition 
Such  actions  destroy  landmarks,  cemeteries  and  the 
religious,  spiritual  and  historical  identity  of  the  holy 
city in every aspect and as quickly as possible, aiming 
to  erase  its  historical  character  and  pre-empt  final 
status  negotiations.  This 
the 
continuous excavations under the Al-Aqsa mosque, the 
demolition  of  homes,  the  deportations  and  revocation 
of  the  residency  rights  of  its  population  and  the 
imposition of a siege on the city in an attempt to isolate 
it from its natural Palestinian Arab surroundings and to 
control it geographically and demographically. 

This  situation  is  a  provocation  to  our  people.  It 
antagonizes them and gives rise to anger, especially in 
the Arab and Islamic world. It creates instability in our 
region  and  constitutes  a  serious  obstacle 
the 
achievement of peace and security. All of these illegal 
Israeli measures and practices must cease. 

This  is  also  the  case  with  regard  to  the  situation 
in  the  Gaza  Strip,  which  has  been  subjected  to  an 
unjust,  illegal  and  unprecedented  land,  air  and  sea 
blockade  in  violation  of  international  law  and  United 
Nations resolutions. It is also the target of harsh Israeli 
military  aggression  that  has  severely  damaged  its 
infrastructure.  This  illegal  blockade  and  aggression 
have  resulted  in  the  destruction  of  the  infrastructure 
and productive capacity of Gaza and destroyed 25 per 
cent  of  its  homes  and  nearly  75  per  cent  of  its  jobs, 
leading  to  widespread  unemployment  and  dependence 
on international aid. The Israeli blockade is preventing 
our  people  in  Gaza  from  rebuilding  their  homes,  even 
though the international donor community has pledged 
some  $5  billion 
reconstruction.  The 
blockade  against 
lifted 
immediately  and  completely,  and  the  tragic  suffering 
being  inflicted  on  our  people  there  must  be  ended  as 
soon as possible. 

We  welcome  the  efforts  of  the  international 
independent  fact-finding  mission  established  by  the 
Human Rights Council concerning the Israeli attack on 
the Freedom Flotilla, which was carrying humanitarian 
assistance  for  our  people  in  the  Gaza  Strip.  We 
welcome  the  conclusions  reached  by  the  mission,  and 
we also look forward to the submission by the Panel of 
Inquiry  established  by  the  Secretary-General  of  its 
findings to the Security Council. 

To all of this I must add the fact that thousands of 
Palestinian  prisoners  and  detainees  remain  in  Israeli 
jails  and  detention  centres.  They  are  all  fighting  for 
to 
the  Gaza  Strip  must  be 
finance 
30 

10-55103 
We 
and 
to 
lead 
to 
the 
trees 
that 
reach 
ready 
are  willing 
the  splinters  of 


freedom. They must be released and an end must be put 
to  their  suffering.  This  is  essential  for  creating  a 
positive  environment  for  the  attainment  of  peace.  We 
cannot  reach  a  peace  agreement  that  does  not  liberate 
all of them from their chains and their imprisonment. 

In  spite  of  all  of  this  and  despite  the  historic 
injustice that has been inflicted upon our people, their 
desire  to  achieve  a  just  peace  that  guarantees  the 
realization  of  their  national  rights  in  freedom  and 
independence  has  not  and  will  not  diminish.  Our 
wounded hands are still able to carry the olive branch 
picked  from 
the 
occupation forces uproot every day. Our people aspire 
to  live  in  security,  peace  and  stability  on  their 
Palestinian national soil, to build the lives and future of 
our generations. 

a 
comprehensive, just and lasting peace, based on rights 
and  justice  and  on  the  resolutions  of  international 
legitimacy.  Such  a  settlement  must 
the 
withdrawal of Israel, the occupying Power, from all the 
Arab  and  Palestinian  territories  occupied  since  1967, 
including East Jerusalem, so that the State of Palestine, 
with  East  Jerusalem  as 
their  capital,  can  enjoy 
independence  and  sovereignty  and  so  that  peace  can 
prevail throughout the Middle East. 

to  attain  a 
comprehensive peace in the region, we have decided to 
enter into final status negotiations. We will exert every 
effort  to  reach  an  agreement  for  Palestinian-Israeli 
peace  within  one  year, 
the 
resolutions of international legitimacy, the Arab Peace 
Initiative, the road map and the vision of the two-State 
solution.  On  behalf  of 
the  Palestine  Liberation 
Organization,  we  have  reaffirmed  our  commitment  to 
the  option  of  just  peace  and  our  determination, 
seriousness  and  sincere 
these 
negotiations succeed, in spite of all the difficulties and 
obstacles before us. 

The international community should draw lessons 
from  the  reasons  for  the  faltering  of  the  political 
process  and  the  inability  to  achieve  its  goals  in  the 
past.  Restoring  the  credibility  of  the  peace  process 
mainly  requires  compelling  the  Government  of  Israel 
to  comply  with  its  obligations  and  commitments.  In 
particular,  the  Government  of  Israel  must  cease  all 
settlement  activities 
the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory,  especially  in  and  around  East  Jerusalem; 
Because  of  our  genuine  desire 
in  accordance  with 
to  make 
intention 
in 
A/65/PV.16
illegal 
in  all 
dismantle  the  apartheid  annexation  wall;  and  put  an 
end to the policy of blockade and closures that restrict 
the lives and movement of our people and deprive them 
of their basic human rights. 

Our  demands  for  the  freezing  of  settlement 
activities, the lifting of the blockade and an end to all 
other 
Israeli  practices  do  not  constitute 
preconditions  that  are  alien  to  the  political  process. 
Rather, they are consistent with the implementation of 
previous  obligations  and  commitments  which  have 
been  repeatedly  reaffirmed 
the  resolutions 
adopted since the start of the political process. 

Israel’s  implementation  of  these  obligations  and 
commitments will lead to the creation of the necessary 
environment  for  the  success  of  the  negotiations  and 
will give credibility to its pledge to implement the final 
agreement.  Israel  must  choose  between  peace  and  the 
continuation of settlements. 
From  this  rostrum,  I  reaffirm  that  we  will 

continue,  as  we  have  always  done,  to  make  every 
possible  effort  so  that  these  negotiations  will  achieve 
the  desired  objective  of  realizing  peace  by  addressing 
all  final  status  issues,  namely  Jerusalem,  refugees, 
settlements, borders, water, security and the release of 
all  prisoners  and  detainees.  This  must  be  done  in  a 
manner  that  will  achieve  freedom,  independence  and 
justice  for  the  Palestinian  people  in  their  homeland, 
rectify  the  historical  injustice  inflicted  upon  them, 
achieve  security  and  safety  for  all  their  neighbours, 
lead  to  a  just  peace  throughout  the  Middle  East, 
including on the Syrian and Lebanese tracks, and thus 
usher  in  a  new  era  of  stability,  progress,  prosperity, 
coexistence and good-neighbourliness. 

The political process will be put back on the right 
track  only  if  the  international  community  assumes  the 
main  responsibility  for  ending  the  Israeli  occupation, 
the  longest  occupation  in  modern  history;  ensures  our 
people’s 
their 
independent  sovereign  State  based  on  the  borders  of 
4 June  1967,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital;  and 
finds  a  just  and  agreed  solution  to  the  plight  of  the 
Palestinian  refugees.  This  must  all  be  carried  out 
through  the  implementation  of  the  principles  of  the 
Charter,  the  relevant  Security  Council  and  General 
Assembly  resolutions,  the  advisory  opinion  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  and  the  provisions  of 
international  law,  including  international  humanitarian 
and  human  rights  law,  on  the  ground  in  the  occupied 
self-determination 
right 
to 
in 
10-55103 

31 

A/65/PV.16 

Palestinian  territory,  including  East  Jerusalem.  All  of 
these measures constitute the legitimate political terms 
of reference for any successful negotiation leading to a 
final peace settlement. 

Our  people,  despite  the  profound  and  continued 
suffering  they  have  endured,  hold  steadfast  to  their 
rights,  their  land  and  their  national  soil.  At  the  same 
time, they are determined to restore national unity and 
the bonds between the two parts of our homeland. We 
are  making  every  effort  to  restore  unity  through 
dialogue  and  the  good,  honourable  efforts  of  our 
brothers  and  friends,  especially  the  Arab  Republic  of 
Egypt. On our part, we will spare no effort to end the 
division  resulting  from  the  coup  against  Palestinian 
legitimacy  and  to  establish  democracy  as  an  essential 
foundation of our body politic. 

We  will  also  assume  our  responsibility  for 
building national institutions for our independent State 
and  national  economy,  and  for  ensuring  the  security 
and  safety  of  our  citizens  under  a  national  authority 
based  on  the  rule  of  law,  accountability,  transparency 
and  justice.  We  will  also  continue  to  fulfil  our 
obligations  under  the  road  map  and  the  agreements 
reached between the two sides. 
In  conclusion,  it  is  imperative  in  this  context  to 

express  our  appreciation 
those  who  have 
contributed  to  sponsoring  and  supporting  the  peace 
process.  Here,  I  would  like  to  express  my  special 
thanks to His Excellency Mr. Barack Obama, President 
of  the  United  States  of America,  who  affirmed  in  his 
statement  before  the  Assembly  (see  A/65/PV.11)  two 
days ago the two-State solution and the need to freeze 
settlement  activities  and  establish  the  independent 
State  of  Palestine  with  full  membership  in  the  United 
Nations  next  year.  On  this  occasion,  we  reaffirm  our 
readiness  to  cooperate  fully  with  his  country’s  efforts 
for  a  successful  political  process 
to  achieve  a 
comprehensive and just peace in the region. 

We  must  also  pay  tribute  to  the  United  Nations 
for preserving our cause and extending a helping hand 
to  our  people  through  its  resolutions  and  decisions, 
which constitute an unshakeable foundation for peace. 
From  this  rostrum,  we  call  on  the  United  Nations  to 
continue  its  pivotal  role  until  justice  is  upheld,  our 
people  have  regained  their  usurped  rights  and  peace 
prevails 
in  our  entire  region.  We  reiterate  our 
appreciation  for  the  Organization’s  tireless  efforts  to 
stand in solidarity with the just cause of Palestine, and 
to  all 




of 
the 
and  President  of 
we reaffirm our faith in the peace to which we and all 
the peoples in the region aspire. We ask God to bless us 
with a future in which we will all enjoy peace, security 
and stability. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Chair  of  the  Executive  Committee  of  the  Palestine 
Liberation  Organization 
the 
Palestinian  Authority  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

  Mr.  Mahmoud  Abbas,  Chair  of  the  Executive 
Committee 
Liberation 
Organization  and  President  of  the  Palestinian 
Authority, was escorted from the rostrum. 
  Address by Mr. Moulaye Ould Mohamed 
Laghdaf, Prime Minister of the Islamic 
Republic of Mauritania 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania. 

Palestine 
in  Arabic):  At 
the  outset,  allow  me 
  Mr.  Moulaye  Ould  Mohamed  Laghdaf,  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Mauritania, 
was escorted to the rostrum. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  have 

great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr. 
Moulaye  Ould  Mohamed  Laghdaf,  Prime  Minister  of 
the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, and inviting him to 
address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Ould  Mohamed  Laghdaf  (Mauritania) 

(spoke 
to 
congratulate,  on  behalf  of  Mr.  Mohamed  Ould  Abdel 
Aziz, President of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania, 
and  on  my  own  behalf,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Joseph 
Deiss  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session  and  to  wish  him 
every  success 
in  his  new  duties.  I  have  great 
confidence that his diligent efforts will have a positive 
impact  on  our  Organization,  as  did  those  of  his 
predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki, 
whose  praiseworthy  labours  strengthened  the  ties  of 
cooperation, 
the 
universal  principles  of  peace  and  dialogue  within  the 
General Assembly. 

It  also  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  express  my 
thanks  and  appreciation  to  His  Excellency  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon for his serious efforts to achieve 
the  bonds  of  brotherhood,  and 
32 

10-55103 
citizens, 


the objectives of the Organization and to strengthen the 
pillars of peace, security and prosperity in the world. 

Mauritania  fulfilled  its  constitutional  obligation 
by  selecting  Mr.  Mohamed  Ould  Abdel  Aziz  as 
President  of  the  Republic  through  elections  in  which 
the  Mauritanian  people  expressed  their  will  freely, 
impartially and maturely. Today, for the first time in its 
history,  my  country  has 
taken  a  comprehensive 
qualitative  leap  forward  into  a  new  era  —  which  we 
call “the era of serious work” — to improve the living 
conditions  of  Mauritanian 
consolidate 
democracy and build a State that is on good terms with 
its  citizens  and  its  neighbours  on  the  basis  of  justice, 
equality and the values of the Republic. 

In this new era, there are no political prisoners in 
Mauritania and the pluralistic Parliament plays its full 
role in legislating and in supervising the Government. 
The  press  exercises  its  freedom  without  censorship  or 
constraint,  as  do  political  parties,  unions  and  civil 
society institutions. 
Inspired  by  the  electoral  platform  of  President 

Mohamed  Ould  Abdel  Aziz, 
the  Government  of 
Mauritania  has  devoted  itself  to  implementing  an 
ambitious  development  policy  with  clearly  visible 
goals,  including  the  elimination  of  corruption  and  its 
consequences;  the  promotion  and  use  of  the  country’s 
resources  in  a  rational,  responsible  and  transparent 
manner;  ensuring  respect  for  the  rule  of  law  and  the 
country’s  prestige;  providing  security 
throughout 
society;  offering  basic  services,  and  constructing 
essential 
the  country’s 
development. 
the  confidence  and 

and 
support  of  Mauritania’s  brothers, 
table 
development  partners,  who,  at 
meeting  in  Brussels  in  June,  blessed  our  ambitious 
development programme and pledged financial support 
totalling  $3.2  billion  over  three  years.  In  this  regard, 
we  thank  them  sincerely  for  having  made  every  effort 
to ensure the success of the round table and for all their 
support for our development programmes. 

In the course of implementing these programmes, 
Mauritania  became  a  hub  of  activity  as  roads  and 
health and education facilities were built and integrated 
projects  established  for  the  purpose  of  empowering 
women  and  youth  in  order  to  contribute  to  the  socio-
economic  development  of  the  country  and  to  improve 
conditions  for  the  poor  and  the  marginalized,  who 
This  policy  has  earned 
friends 
their  round 
infrastructure  needed 
for 
A/65/PV.16
excess 
and 
that 
rejects 
We  believe 
the  fight  against 
rejoiced  at  the  election  of  our  President  and  have 
granted  him  the  nickname  “President  of  the  poor”  for 
his great devotion to and care for the people. 

Mauritania,  like  other  countries,  is  confronted 
with  terrorism  and  transnational  organized  crime. 
Terrorism is a global phenomenon that is not tied to a 
particular  country,  continent,  religion  or  society.  Any 
attempt  to  conflate  Islam  with  this  phenomenon  is 
rejected,  unacceptable  and 
illogical.  Those  most 
affected by terrorism are, after all, the Muslims and the 
Islamic world. 

terrorism 
requires  progress  in  social  justice,  the  training  of 
young  people  and  their  integration  into  an  active  life. 
This  will  give  them  hope  so  that  they  do  not  become 
easy  recruiting  targets  for  terrorists  and  extremist 
organizations. 

My country is making diligent efforts on all these 
fronts  and  promoting  the  role  of  our  prominent 
scholars  to  debate  in  the  best  possible  manner  and  to 
provide the correct image of Islam, which is a religion 
of  tolerance,  virtue  and  acceptance  of  others  and  one 
that 
extremism.  Moreover, 
Mauritania, far from being at war with anyone, as His 
Excellency 
the  Republic  has 
repeatedly said, will spare  no effort to  maintain peace 
and  security  for  its  citizens  and  ensure  the  necessary 
conditions  for  the  development  of  the  country  in 
security and stability. 

The establishment of a united Arab Maghreb is a 
strategic  option  for  the  peoples  of  the  region,  and 
failure to maintain such unity will reflect negatively on 
the future of that vital region of the world. There is no 
doubt  that  finding  a  timely  solution  to  the  issue  of 
Western Sahara and obtaining the consent of the parties 
concerned would contribute to accelerating the pace of 
integration of the united Maghreb and enable it to play 
its  full  role  as  an  indispensable  and  effective  regional 
partner. 

On the other hand, conscious of the importance of 
the  United  Nations  as  an  irreplaceable  forum  for  the 
voices  of  Member  States  and  other  members  of  the 
international  community,  big  and  small,  powerful  and 
weak,  as  well  as  for  resolving  difficult  international 
issues  and  coordinating  and  supporting  development 
efforts,  Mauritania  supports  efforts  to  reform  the 
Organization  and  its  organs,  especially  the  Security 
Council. 
the  President  of 
10-55103 

33 

it 
is  neither 
just  and  permanent  and 
A/65/PV.16 

We  call  for  the  expansion  of  the  Council  to 

include  permanent  representation  for 
the  African 
continent and the Arab Group, because democracy is an 
international  requirement  and  not  only  a  national 
practice  or  objective.  Given  their  cultural,  human  and 
strategic  significance, 
logical  nor 
acceptable not to grant permanent seats on the Security 
Council to the African continent and the Arab world. 

The  Arab-Israeli  conflict  remains  a  source  of 
tension and a threat to international peace and security 
in  an  extremely  sensitive  and  vital  area  of  the  world. 
That  region  will  know  no  stability  until  a  definitive 
solution to the conflict is found. Such a solution must 
be 
in  accordance  with 
resolutions  of  international  legitimacy.  It  must  allow 
the  brotherly  Palestinian  people  to  exercise  their  full 
right to establish their independent and viable State in 
Palestine,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  It  must 
also  ensure  the  restoration  of  all  occupied  Arab 
territories, including the Syrian Golan Heights and the 
Lebanese Shab’a farms.

Mauritania  hopes  that  the  direct  negotiations 
between the Palestinians and the Israelis, sponsored by 
the United States, will conclude in tangible results and 
an  acceptable  time  frame.  There  is  no  people  in  the 
Middle East that needs peace more than the Palestinian 
people.  My  country  has  called  for  the  lifting  of  the 
unjust  siege  on  Gaza  and  for  an  end  to  its  collective 
and inhumane punishment. Restoring rights and justice 
to their owners and between nations and cultures is the 
best means to achieve peace and security in the world. 

Before  concluding,  allow  me  to  reiterate  what  I 
stated  a  few  days  ago  —  the  development  challenges 
before us all will be exacerbated unless we all assume 
our 
fulfil  our  commitments. 
Developing countries require the urgent attention of the 
international  community  if  they  are  to  achieve  the 
stability,  development  and  progress  that  will  enable 
them to integrate into the global economic system. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Mauritania 
for the statement he has just made. 

  Mr.  Moulaye  Ould  Mohamed  Laghdaf,  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Mauritania, 
was escorted from the rostrum. 
responsibilities  and 

34 

if 
the 
founded  65  years 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Guido  Westerwelle,  Vice-
Chancellor  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Federal Republic of Germany. 

Mr.  Westerwelle  (Germany)  (spoke  in  German; 
interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  an 
honour for me to speak to the General Assembly today. 
The  world  has  changed  dramatically  since  the 

United  Nations  was 
ago. 
International 
trade  and  exchange  are,  of  course, 
nothing new. What is new, however, is how quickly the 
changes  affect  everybody’s  lives.  Only  if  we  in  the 
United Nations are and remain able to act can we shape 
these  global  changes.  We  will  manage 
to  solve 
problems relating to security and economic, social and 
ecological  development  only 
international 
community stands united. Germany is ready to assume 
global  responsibility  within  the  framework  of  the 
United Nations. 

Germany’s  foreign  policy  is  firmly  embedded  in 
the  international  community.  In  Europe,  a  system  of 
cooperation has replaced the confrontation that cruelly 
divided  our  continent  for  centuries.  The  European 
Union is successful because, in Europe, all peoples and 
States  meet  on  an  equal  footing.  The  United  Nations, 
too,  brings  together  nations  large  and  small,  rich  and 
poor, those that are more powerful and those with less 
influence.  Cooperation  between  equals  on  an  equal 
footing  is  our  guiding  principle  also  for  work  here  at 
the  United  Nations.  Each  and  every  country  must 
respect all others. 

German foreign policy is a policy of peace. This 
autumn,  Germany  will  stand  for  election  as  a 
non-permanent  member  of 
the  Security  Council 
because  the  Council  is  the  ideal  forum  in  which  to 
cooperate  in  the  cause  of  peace  and  development. 
Peace  is  more  than  the  absence  of  war.  In  today’s 
globalized  world,  people  are  just  as  vulnerable  to  the 
consequences  of 
and 
to  violence  and 
underdevelopment  as 
oppression. 

Climate  change  has  a  direct  impact  on  each  and 
every  one  of  us.  Countless  people  are  already 
personally 
social 
consequences.  In  their  letter  to  the  Security  Council, 
the  Pacific  island  States  rightly  warned  us  in  no 
uncertain 
just  how  much  climate  change 
threatens everyone’s security. Everyone must play their 
change,  poverty 
they  are 
economic 
climate 
feeling 
terms 
its 
and 
10-55103 
for 
change 
into 
an  opportunity 


part  to  protect  the  climate.  In  Germany,  we  have  just 
adopted a forward-looking energy strategy. By the year 
2050,  80  per  cent  of  our  electricity  production  will 
come  from  renewable  sources.  Germany  has  also 
pledged to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 40 per 
cent by the year 2020, compared to the 1990 baseline. 
Even  now,  we  have  reduced  our  carbon  dioxide 
emissions by almost 30 per cent. We are pioneers in the 
field  of  climate  protection.  We  are  helping  those  who 
are now most adversely affected by climate change. We 
are  particularly  concerned  about  the  fate  of  small 
island States. 

Anyone  who  is  serious  about  combating  climate 
change  has  to  build  on  innovation,  new  technologies 
and exchange. Developed and developing nations alike 
can  profit  from  cooperation  on  future  energies. 
Germany will contribute its technological expertise, for 
example, in the fields of renewable energy and energy 
efficiency. In this way, we are turning the challenge of 
climate 
fair 
development and enhanced cooperation. Climate policy 
is a cornerstone of any sustainable development policy. 
The  recent  summit  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  laid  down  the  next  steps  forward  in  our  global 
partnership for development. 

development. 
Development  needs  education.  Education  protects 
people  from  discrimination  and  oppression.  Education 
fights  prejudice  and  thereby  fosters  peace.  Education 
also creates products and markets; education is the path 
to  prosperity.  The  true  wealth  of  many  nations  is  no 
longer found in their raw materials but in the minds of 
their people. Education is a human right. It is because 
education  will  determine  whether  societies  succeed  or 
fail  in  tomorrow’s  world  that  Germany  is  one  of  the 
major  international  partners  for  learning.  By  building 
on education, we are building bridges to the future for 
the young people of today. 

The United Nations itself must also keep up with 
the pace of change. Today’s world order is not properly 
reflected 
if  Africa  and  Latin  America  are  not 
permanently represented on the Security Council. Asia, 
too, rightly considers itself to be underrepresented. The 
entire  continent,  not 
is 
developing  at  breathtaking  speed.  We 
take  our 
partnerships  seriously,  both  the  old  and  the  new. 
Germany, 
to  assume  greater 
responsibility. 
too,  remains  ready 
just 
individual  States, 
Education 
is 
the 
key 
to 
A/65/PV.16
the  Secretary-General 

Disarmament  and  nuclear  non-proliferation  are 
not  issues  of  the  past  but  challenges  of  our  time. 
Disarmament  and  nuclear  non-proliferation  are  two 
sides of the same coin. We have to do all we possibly 
can to ensure that weapons of mass destruction do not 
become  the  bane  of  globalization.  Unlike  the  Review 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear Weapons  five  years  ago, 
this  May’s  Review  Conference  was  a  success.  If  we 
work together to maintain this momentum, it will be in 
our  power  to  ensure  that  this  decade  does  not  see  a 
build-up  of  arms  but  becomes  a  decade  of 
disarmament.  A  world  without  nuclear  weapons  is  a 
long-term vision, but even a marathon begins with the 
first step. 
There  is  now  movement  in  the  disarmament 

debate. The group of States founded here in New York 
on  Wednesday  to  advance  disarmament  and  arms 
control  does  not  stand  alone.  For  over  10  years,  the 
Conference  on  Disarmament  in  Geneva  was  not  even 
able to agree on an agenda. That is not the way to live 
up to our shared responsibility. We met yesterday at the 
invitation  of 
the 
deadlock  binding  the  Geneva  Conference.  Our  world 
will  be  a  more  secure  place  when  the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  enters  into  force  and  the 
production of fissile material is ended once and for all. 

German  peace  policy  stands  for  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  regional  conflicts.  Germany  is  doing  its 
utmost  to  ensure  that  the  direct  talks  between  Israel 
and the Palestinians are a success. We will continue to 
strengthen  the  forces  of  reason  and  reconciliation. 
During  this  vital  period  for  the  peace  process  in 
particular, I urge both sides to refrain from taking any 
action that might block the path to peace. We condemn 
any  form  of  violence  that  has  the  sole  aim  of 
torpedoing  the  peace  talks. At  the  same  time,  we  call 
for  the  moratorium  on  settlement  construction  to  be 
extended. Lasting peace will be achieved only through 
a two-State solution, with Israel and a Palestinian State 
living peacefully side by side within secure borders. 

Iran,  like  every  other  country,  naturally  has  the 
right  to  use  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes. 
However,  the Tehran  leadership  itself  has  sown  doubt 
about  the  civilian  nature  of  its  nuclear  programme. 
Iran, by demonstrating openness and transparency, can 
allay that doubt. Our offer of dialogue still stands. It is 
now up to Iran to grasp our outstretched hand. 
to  break 
10-55103 

35 

A/65/PV.16 


The conference aimed at establishing a zone free 
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  in  the  Middle  East, 
planned  for  2012,  will  be  a  major  opportunity  to 
strengthen peace and security in the region. Germany is 
encouraging  all  countries  in  the  region  to  take  part  to 
ensure  that  the  conference  is  a  success.  We  are 
committed to a nuclear-weapon-free Middle East. 

Germany  is  one  of  the  major  supporters  of  a 
peaceful  and  secure  Afghanistan.  As  we  agreed  in 
London  and  Kabul,  we  want  to  transfer  security 
responsibility  for  the  whole  of  Afghanistan  to  the 
Afghan Government by 2014. To make progress in that 
country,  so  long  ravaged  by  war  and  civil  strife, 
effective  measures  must  be  taken  to  prevent  the 
violence. However, military means alone will not bring 
success.  We  favour  a  comprehensive  approach  and 
above  all  a  political  solution. All  sides  now  need  the 
courage and the stamina to engage in reconciliation. 

The  German  Government  assists  when  people 
anywhere  in  the  world  are  struck  by  natural  disasters 
and  emergencies.  However,  a  country’s  conscience  is 
to be found in the hearts of its citizens. I am proud that 
my  fellow  Germans  donate  so  generously  at  times  of 
greatest  need.  Humanity  and  solidarity  are  global 
values;  humanity  and  solidarity  make  no  distinction 
based  on  skin  colour  or  religious  beliefs.  When  the 
tsunami devastated coastlines around the Indian Ocean, 
when  the  Haiti  earthquake  destroyed  the  work  of 
decades,  or  just  recently,  when  the  horrific  floods  in 
Pakistan  left  havoc  in  their  wake,  we  Germans  shared 
the victims’ pain and helped in the most heartfelt way 
possible.  We  will  stand  by  Pakistan  over  the  coming 
months  and  years  to  ensure  that  the  country  has  a 
promising economic future. 

We  are  working  towards  a  peaceful  order  in  the 
Sudan,  now  and  after  the  referendum  early  next  year. 
We are looking for ways of achieving stable conditions 
in Yemen  and  are  particularly  active  in  the  Friends  of 
Yemen  group.  We  are  working  hard  to  combat  piracy 
off the Horn of Africa and to bring peace and stability 
to Somalia. 

in  devastated  regions 
cannot bring success overnight. Similarly, for societies 
torn by war and civil strife, the route to life in dignity 
leads  through  peace  and  reconciliation.  There  can  be 
true  peace  only  when  human  rights  are  respected.  For 
us,  such  principles  as  the  rule  of  law,  freedom  of 
opinion,  freedom  of 
for 
the  press  and  respect 
Reconstruction  efforts 
inalienable  human  rights  are  essential.  The  protection 
of human rights remains a task for all societies. 

It  is  a  fundamental  tenet  of  the  United  Nations 
that women determine their own lives and help decide 
the  fate  of 
their  countries.  Ethnic  or  religious 
minorities  enrich  their  societies.  Tolerance  is  one  of 
Germany’s  guiding  principles.  Everyone  wins  in  the 
competition  for  the  best  ideas;  in  a  clash  of  cultures, 
there can only be losers. 

United  Europe  can  make  a  valuable  contribution 
on  our  continent  and  beyond.  Germany  is  working  to 
ensure  that,  in  the  future,  the  European  Union  shall 
cooperate  even  more  closely  with  other  regions  in 
Latin  America,  Africa  and  Asia,  and  live  up  to  its 
global  responsibility.  Germany  is  the  third-largest 
development  cooperation  donor.  We  have  practically 
recovered  from  the  financial  and  economic  crisis  and 
are  on  the  right  track  due  to  our  robust  economic 
growth. This strong economy makes Germany a strong 
global partner. 

If  all  countries,  small  and  large,  work  together, 
we will be able to master the pressing challenges of our 
world. 
(spoke in English) 
They  can  count  on  Germany.  They  can  rely  on 
Germany. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ahmed  Aboul  Gheit, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Arab  Republic  of 
Egypt. 
Mr. Aboul Gheit (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): The 

beginning  of  the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  coincides  with  the  preparations  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM),  chaired  by  my 
country, to celebrate 50 years of achievements. During 
those  years,  the  Movement  has  greatly  helped  to 
reinforce  international  and  multilateral  action  under 
changing regional and international circumstances. The 
Movement’s  work  over  those  years  has  demonstrated 
the  ability  of  developing  countries 
to  contribute 
effectively  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and  security,  make  progress  in  development,  and 
promote  human 
the 
furtherance  of  good  governance  at  the  international 
level. 
freedoms  and 
rights,  basic 
36 

10-55103 
the 
that 
theme 
the  main 
interaction  with 
the  elements  of 
Egypt  appreciates 



This week’s NAM ministerial meeting represents 
the  point  of  departure  for  a  major  celebration,  to  be 
hosted by Indonesia in April or May 2011. The meeting 
will chart a clear and integrated future course, drawing 
impetus  for  future 
on  past  achievements  as  an 
endeavours.  It  will  define 
the 
Movement’s  future  commitment  to  greater  openness 
towards  and 
international 
community,  in  the  context  of  fairness  and  mutual 
interest, to ensure that the aspirations and hopes of our 
countries and peoples are met. 

the 
President  proposed  for  discussion  at  this  session. 
Global  governance 
touches  on  many  political, 
economic  and  social  issues.  Egypt  believes  that  the 
elected organs of the United Nations should handle the 
principal tasks in that area. We must all ensure that the 
United  Nations  discharges  such  roles  effectively  and 
wisely. 

In the political field, for example, it is no longer 
acceptable  for  permanent  membership  of  the  Security 
Council,  the  main  organ  entrusted  with  maintaining 
international peace and security, to continue to operate 
under obsolete rules of an era long past. Similarly, it is 
unacceptable  for  the  work  of  the  Council  or  its 
mechanisms  to  continue  to  be  characterized  by  a  lack 
of transparency or balance. 

A serious approach to current historic challenges 
requires  more  balanced,  conscious  and  responsible 
management  of  this  core  issue.  The  Security  Council 
has  made  numerous  grave  mistakes,  resulting  in  the 
loss of innocent lives. Many resolutions that have been 
blocked  by  the  Council  would  have  corrected  the 
disparities,  returned  rights  to  victims  and  restored  the 
confidence  of  world  public  opinion  in  the  Council’s 
performance and impartiality. 

Turning to the economic sphere, we note that the 
United  Nations,  and  even  the  key Bretton  Woods 
international  financial  institutions,  no  longer  lead  in 
managing the top international economic issues. Other 
international  bodies  are now beginning to assume that 
role. 
At its summit last year, the Group of 20 declared 

itself  the  forum  to  coordinate  global  economic  policy. 
Such  a  development  prompts  us  to  be  cautious  of  its 
repercussions,  since  that  forum  or  any  other  assuming 
such  a  responsibility  should  have  the  geographical 
representation necessary to ensure the fair airing of all 
A/65/PV.16
and 
to 
joint 
action 
address 
trends  and  approaches  prevailing  in  the  international 
community.  It  must  also  ensure  fair  participation  in 
formulating  policy  and 
in  providing  a  balanced 
approach  to  current  challenges.  Marginalization  is  no 
longer  acceptable.  Countries  of  the  South  have  rights 
and must have a voice and participate in any forum that 
deals with the international situation. 

Egypt  will  continue  its  tireless  work  to  achieve 
the  wider  and  more  balanced  participation  of  the 
developing  world  in  international  economic  decision-
making. Our world has experienced successive years of 
poor  economic  performance  and  stubborn  crises.  That 
has  aggravated  the  current  inequities  and  heightened 
the  challenges  faced  by  all  countries,  developing 
countries  in  particular.  It  requires  us  all  to  support 
coordinated 
the 
shortcomings and inequities and to achieve sustainable 
and balanced global growth. 

In  that  context,  we  welcome  the  outcome  of  the 
recent  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly  on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  at 
which  the  delegation  of  Egypt  expressed  its  view  on 
the  Goals  and  the  extent  to  which  we  will  be  able  to 
achieve  them.  We  hope  that  the  conclusions  of  the 
summit will provide us with the necessary momentum 
to speed up the achievement of the Goals ahead of the 
final review in 2015. 

The fact that Egypt is part of the Islamic world is 
common  knowledge.  We  feel  the  pain  of  Muslims 
wherever 
joys  and 
celebrations;  we  grieve  with  them  and  we  feel  their 
pain.  There  is  no  doubt  that  regrettable  and  appalling 
incidents  against  Muslims  and  Islam  are  increasingly 
frequent,  and  systematic  in  certain  cases.  They  have 
ranged  from  attacks  on  the  symbols  and  sanctities  of 
the faith to the harassment of Muslims. In general, we 
find the West being drawn into a clash with the Muslim 
world.  Such  a  clash  would  serve  no  one  except 
extremists  and  those  who  hold  perverse  ideas  on  both 
sides.  It  would  not  be  in  the  interest  of  security  and 
stability in the world. It would not be in the interests of 
moderates.  In  such  a  clash,  the  winner  is  a  loser  and 
the victor is defeated. 

Need  I  remind  this  gathering  of  the  need  for 
coordinated  action  among  the  influential  advocates  of 
religious,  civilizational  and  cultural  moderation  in 
order  to  eliminate  the  threat  before  it  becomes  more 
ominous and destroys much of everything? We can no 
they  are.  We 
share 
their 
10-55103 

37 

respect 
tolerance, 
A/65/PV.16 

longer  accept  pretexts  to  condone  practices  against 
Islam and its followers — such as the right to freedom 
of  expression  —  which  are  surprisingly  naïve, 
excessive in essence and offensive in nature. 

Egypt  will  continue  to  do  its  utmost  at  the 
political,  cultural  and  religious  levels  to  address  such 
threats.  We  call  on  all  countries, 
in  particular 
Governments,  to  play  their  part  in  highlighting  the 
potential  horror  of  a  terrible  clash  of  faiths  and 
civilizations.  We  call  on  them  to  spread  a  culture  of 
enlightenment  based  on 
for 
differences  and  the  renunciation  of  fanaticism,  hatred 
and  zealotry.  Laws  must  be  enacted 
to  protect 
minorities  and  their  beliefs  from  the  aggression  of 
extremists and promoters of strife. 

With regard to matters of international peace and 
security, disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation are 
priorities  on  Egypt’s  agenda.  Only  a  few  months  ago, 
the Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on 
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons successfully 
concluded its work. It adopted an important document 
on  the  Middle  East  that  included  an  action  plan  and 
measures  to  implement  the  1995  resolution  on  the 
Middle  East.  Egypt  will  closely  follow  all  steps  taken 
to 
serious 
preparations for the 2012 conference. 

Once again, let me reiterate Egypt’s position that 
adopting  double  standards  on 
the  question  of 
non-proliferation  will  result  in  a  continued  threat  to 
world stability. In the Middle East particularly, we note 
increasing  efforts  to  add  to  the  commitments  of 
non-nuclear-weapon  States  that  are  signatories  to  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons, 
while  the  need  for  the  Treaty  to  become  universal  in 
our  region  and  for  all  nuclear  installations  in  the 
Middle  East  to  be  subjected  to  the  comprehensive 
safeguards  system  of  the  International Atomic  Energy 
Agency is disregarded. This uncomfortable situation is 
a source of concern to us. We will work with all like-
minded  parties  to  address  and  redress  this  situation  in 
relevant international forums. 

Year  after  year,  we  return  to  the  United  Nations 
to  debate  the  question  of  Palestine  and  the  ongoing 
Arab-Israeli  conflict.  Every  year,  our  words  swing 
between  the  hope  for  a  complete  but  unrealized 
breakthrough,  and  the  fear  of  a  deterioration  and  an 
explosion that would compound the pain and suffering 
of the Palestinian people and aggravate the dangers of 
that  plan, 
implement 
including 
the 
the  sponsor  of 
overreaching  extremism,  militancy  and  violence  faced 
by our region. 

This  year  is  no  different.  It  is  true  that  there  is 
hope  in  the  wake  of  the  start  of  direct  negotiations 
between  the  Palestinian  and  Israeli  sides;  however, 
chances for success remain slim. Despite the agony of 
the  road  to  negotiations,  Egypt  believes  that  their 
relaunch  may  represent  an  important  opportunity  that 
should not be squandered. 

It  is  important  for  the  Israeli  side  to  realize  that 
negotiations  are  not  an  end  in  themselves.  They  are 
neither a game nor a waste of time. A serious approach 
must  be  the  basis  and  distinguishing  mark  of  the 
negotiating  process.  Without  the  required  seriousness 
and  credibility,  the  process  will  soon  lose  the  little 
support it enjoys from the public on both sides. Egypt 
believes that these negotiations should seek to end the 
Israeli  occupation  of  Palestinian  territories  and  the 
implementation  of  the  two-State  solution  through  the 
establishment of an independent Palestinian State, with 
East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital  and  its  borders  based  on 
the lines of 1967, as has been confirmed by the United 
States, 
the 
international  Quartet  on  all  occasions  and  mentioned 
by President Obama a few days ago. 

in 
Washington,  D.C.,  and  later  in  Sharm  el-Sheikh,  we 
heard  Israel’s  assurances  of  its  commitment  to  the 
required  seriousness. Therefore,  we  call  on  the  Israeli 
side  to  take  the  difficult  and  necessary  decisions,  as 
President Mubarak said two days ago, to achieve a just 
political  settlement  that  would  allow  the  peoples  and 
countries of the region to transcend decades of conflict, 
victimization and wasted resources. 
There  is  no  doubt  that  a  freeze  in  Israeli 

settlement  activity 
the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories  has  become  a  major  factor  in  determining 
the  intentions  of  the  Israeli  side  and  its  level  of 
commitment to the success of the negotiations. Should 
Israel fail in its commitment to prolong the moratorium 
on  its  settlement  activities,  it  would  expose  the 
to  collapse  and  bear 
negotiation  process 
full 
responsibility  before 
regional  and  world  public 
opinion, as well as the sponsor, for wasting a valuable 
opportunity  afforded  by  a  major  United  States  effort. 
Israel  would  also  bear  responsibility  for  any  negative 
consequences. Were  Israel  to  pass  this  test,  we  would 
look  forward  to  a  quick  resolution  by  both  parties  of 
round  of  negotiations 
the  negotiations,  and 
During 
first 
the 
in 
38 

10-55103 
reach 
territories 
consequently 
and 
implement 


the question of borders between them. The solutions in 
this  respect  are  known  to  all.  Settling  the  matter  of 
borders  would  enable  us  to  take  important  steps 
towards settling the conflict as a whole. 

Egypt  also  supports  any  serious  effort  to  resume 
direct  negotiations  on  the  Syrian  and  Lebanese  tracks 
in a way that would allow both countries to regain their 
occupied 
a 
comprehensive  peace, 
the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative and end the Arab-Israeli conflict once and for 
all. 

Brotherly  Sudan  is  currently  facing  the  most 
difficult juncture since its independence. In addition to 
developments  in  Darfur,  the  referendum  on  self-
determination  for  Southern  Sudan  is  drawing  near. 
Egypt  follows  this  situation  with  the  greatest  interest, 
given  our  common  border  with  that  country.  Our 
interest  is  based  not  only  on  the  close  brotherly 
relations  between  our  two  peoples,  but  also  on  our 
anticipation  of  any  possible  consequences  of  the 
referendum.  Egypt  will  pursue  its  efforts  to  preserve 
the unity of the Sudan as long as that is the choice of 
the  majority  in  that  country.  But  if  the  wish  of  the 
Southern  Sudanese,  who  are  also  our  brothers,  were 
any  different,  Egypt  would  respect  the  outcome  and 
work  with  all  parties  in  the  interests  of  development 
and stability. 

The  security  of  the Arab  Gulf  is  one  of  Egypt’s 
major  concerns  and  foreign  policy  priorities.  Apart 
from our age-old relations, Egypt understands that it is 
of  strategic  importance  for  its  Arab  brethren  in  the 
Gulf.  Egypt  will  therefore  continue  to  work  with  the 
Gulf  Cooperation  Council 
the 
maintenance of Arab national security in the region and 
to ensure that any security arrangements reached are in 
consonance  with  the  requirements  and  concerns  of 
Arab countries. 

Egypt affirms the urgent need to reach a political 
settlement on the Iranian nuclear issue, especially since 
its dangerous escalation would threaten an eruption of 
the situation that could endanger peace and stability in 
that  vital  region  of  the  world.  While  it  is  true  that 
threats  against  a  State  member  of  the  Organization  of 
the 
Islamic  Conference  are  not  acceptable,  we 
nevertheless ask Iran to refrain from any measure that 
could  exacerbate  the  situation  in  the  region,  and 
specifically 
to  a 
confrontation  with  different  forces  in  the  international 
the  Gulf  area,  and 
countries 
lead 
for 
A/65/PV.16
interests.  On 
community. All parties must adhere to negotiations as a 
way  to  a  peaceful,  political  settlement  of  this  issue. 
Such  a  settlement  would  guarantee  Iran’s  legitimate 
right to the peaceful uses of nuclear energy and enable 
the  international  community  to  verify  that  Iran  is  in 
compliance with its obligations under the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons.  No  evidence 
has yet been seen to suggest otherwise. 

The  southern  strait  of  the  Red  Sea  is  an  area  of 
strategic  importance  for  Egypt.  It  leads  to  the  Suez 
Canal,  a  vital  waterway  at  the  centre  of  the  world. 
Securing this critically important area is at the heart of 
Egyptian 
that  basis,  Egypt  has 
participated  extensively  in  all  international  efforts  to 
combat piracy off the Somali coast and in the Arabian 
Sea  and  the  Indian  Ocean.  Egypt  has  also  provided 
support to some countries of the region in areas such as 
the  development  of  coast  guard  capacity,  raising 
awareness  about  the  prevention  of  piracy,  and  the 
implementation  of  a  media  and  communications 
strategy to combat piracy. In the same vein, continued 
fratricidal  fighting  in  Somalia  has  consequences  for 
stability in the Horn of Africa and, as such, remains a 
source of concern to us. 

in 
outreach,  to  further  raise  international  interest  in 
Somalia  with  a  view  to  achieving  a  ceasefire  and 
proceeding  to  a  comprehensive  and  peaceful  political 
settlement. Such a settlement will be conditional on the 
existence  of  the  political  will  of  the  Somali  parties  to 
achieve  peace  and  on  the  commitment  of  external 
parties  to  refrain  from  interfering  in  Somali  affairs 
while  seriously  participating  in  efforts  to  achieve  a 
political settlement. 

In  conclusion,  Egypt  is  a  country  of  many 
civilizations, features and characteristic, from its Arab 
nationalist  to  its  deep-rooted  Islamic  and  Coptic 
identities,  and  from 
the 
historical  Mediterranean.  All  have  intermingled  over 
the years and left their mark on Egypt’s foreign policy. 
All  these  influences  define  our  overlapping  interests 
and  guide  our  thinking  and  action  in  addressing 
problems and crises. 

Egypt will continue to work for the achievement 
of peace and stability in the Middle East and the world. 
It  will  do  its  utmost  for  the  well-being  of  its  people, 
nation  and  region.  We  will  continue  the  struggle  for 
balanced  and  sustainable  development.  We  will  also 
the  genuine  African 
is  pursuing 
its  efforts, 
including 
Egypt 
to 
in 
10-55103 

39 

to 
A/65/PV.16 

pursue our serious work for the benefit of the countries 
of the South. 

Our  delegation  looks  forward  to  working  with 
Members  in  a  spirit  of  openness  to  ensure  the 
successful outcome of this session. We extend our hand 
to all countries, with an open mind and a sincere desire 
to achieve the international agenda before us. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kevin  Rudd,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Australia. 

Mr.  Rudd  (Australia): This  great  body  has  been 
in existence for two thirds of a century — three times 
longer  than  its  predecessor  body,  the  League  of 
Nations, and longer than previous attempts to fashion a 
continuing  collective  approach 
the  common 
problems  of  nation  States.  The  question  we  must  ask 
ourselves today is whether the United Nations remains 
effective in confronting the challenges of our time. 

The  United  Nations  was  established  in  the  grim 
aftermath  of  the  two  deadliest  conflicts  in  human 
history, in which close to 80 million people were killed 
and  entire  families  and  almost  entire  generations  lost 
for all time. The world came together out of necessity. 
There had to be a better way, and in the decades since 
we  first  met  at  San  Francisco,  we  have  managed  to 
avoid another world war, although at times that seemed 
less than certain. 

Today,  we  are  faced  with  a  different  set  of 
challenges  and  in  different  strategic,  political  and 
economic circumstances. We now live in a world that is 
more  multipolar  and  more  interconnected  than  ever 
before. We are confronted with the double-edged sword 
of  globalization.  The  transformation  of  the  global 
economy  has  increased  living  standards  and  lifted 
many hundreds of millions out of poverty. 

At  the  same  time,  the  increased  interdependence 
of  global  financial  markets  ensured  that  no  country 
connected to the world economy was spared the impact 
of  the  global  financial  crisis.  Furthermore,  the  rapid 
transformation  of  global  communications  and  the 
radical  increase  in  global  people  movements  have 
improved the well-being of all humankind. But equally, 
they  have  created  or  at  least  amplified  a  new  set  of 
security  threats  to  all  humankind:  pandemic  diseases, 
transnational organized crime and the continuing threat 
of  global  terrorism. There  is  also  the  global  challenge 
of climate change. The unconstrained carbon emissions 
thus 
imperative 
and,  most 
realities  create  an 
representative 
of  one  State  impact  on  the  long-term  survival  of  all 
respects  no  national  or 
States.  Climate  change 
geographic  boundaries 
and 
simultaneously 
demands both national and integrated global responses. 

So two thirds of a century after our formation, we 
the  United  Nations  now  face  increasingly  complex 
global challenges in an increasingly fragmented world 
and  a much  more  contested international space. These 
for 
new  global 
responsive, 
critically, 
effective systems of global governance. 

If we fail to make the United Nations work and to 
make its institutions relevant to the great challenges we 
all now face, the uncomfortable fact is that the United 
Nations will become a hollow shell. Nation States may 
retain its form, but will increasingly seek to go around 
it and deploy other mechanisms to achieve real results. 

And that is the question we all face today. It is a 
question  of  our  collective  political  will  to  make  the 
existing institutions work and combine the existing and 
unique legitimacy of the United Nations system with a 
new-found  effectiveness  on  security,  development  and 
climate change. 

The  United  Nations  has  most  of  the  essential 
structures in place, but if the structures are to work we 
must harness the political will necessary to make them 
work.  In  other  words,  we  must  enable  the  institutions 
we  have  created  to  do  the  job  for  which  they  were 
created. Put even more starkly, we must do that which 
we  say.  If  we  have  a  Conference  on  Disarmament,  it 
should  do  disarmament  —  not  pretend.  If  we  have  a 
convention  on  climate  change,  it  must  do  the  job  to 
tackle  climate  change  —  not  just  talk  about  it,  and 
similarly  with  development.  Otherwise,  the  credibility 
of the United Nations in the eyes of the world and our 
own citizens will eventually collapse. The international 
community can no longer tolerate the actions of a few 
dissenting  States  to  roadblock  the  common  resolve  of 
the many. 

The international community faces the continuing 
challenge  of  international  terrorism.  Terrorism  knows 
no  geographic  or  political  boundaries.  We  are  now  in 
the tenth year since terrorists launched their murderous 
attack  on  this  great  city  of  New  York.  The  threat  of 
international  terrorism  remains  alive.  It  continues  to 
challenge  civilized  norms, 
to  generate  fear  and 
insecurity,  and  to  take  innocent  civilian  lives  in  many 
parts of the world. 
40 

10-55103 
is 
The 
result 
that  Afghanistan  no 



The outlawing of terrorist organizations under the 
provisions of the relevant Security Council resolutions, 
together  with  the  individual  and  cooperative  measures 
taken  by  Member  States,  reflect  the  unprecedented 
levels  of  international  collaboration  in  responding  to 
the worldwide threat of terrorism. 

As  part  of  the  effort  to  combat  terrorism,  many 
Member  States  have  their  armed  forces  and  other 
personnel  committed  to Afghanistan,  again  sanctioned 
by  Security  Council  resolutions. These  brave  soldiers, 
police  officers  and  aid  workers,  representing  so  many 
of  the  countries  represented  here  in  the  General 
Assembly,  including  Australia,  remain  in  Afghanistan 
following many years of conflict. 

longer 
represents an unimpeded base for the global operations 
of  terrorist  organizations  such  as Al-Qaida. The  result 
is  also  that  we  are  all  contributing  to  the  security  and 
stability  of  Afghanistan  as  a  nation.  This  has  been  a 
difficult  war,  but  our  collective  resolve  is  strong 
enough 
to  prevent  Afghanistan  from  once  again 
becoming a base for the export of terrorism. 
to 

remain a threat to people of all faiths and civilizations. 
We must remain nationally and internationally vigilant 
against  the  possibility  of  further  terrorist  attacks.  The 
threat remains real. 

the 
continued challenge of nuclear proliferation. Violations 
of  the  non-proliferation  regime  by  States  such  as  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and  Iran 
represent a potent and potential threat to us all. It is for 
this reason that Australia provides robust support to the 
United  Nations  sanctions  regime  against  both  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea and Iran. 
The  United  Nations  has  played  a  critical  role  in 

promoting 
the  goal  of  a  world  without  nuclear 
weapons.  Non-proliferation  and  nuclear  disarmament 
are  mutually  reinforcing  processes  and  cannot  be 
separated. 

Australia’s  activism  on  arms  control  and 
disarmament remains undiminished. And there remains 
much  urgent  work  to  be  done.  In  1996,  Australia 
sponsored the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty 
in  this  Assembly  to  ensure  its  adoption.  Since  then, 
182 States have signed the Treaty and 153 have ratified 
it. Nine more States are needed to ratify in order for the 
We  must  equally  be  concerned  about 
Beyond  Afghanistan, 
terrorism  continues 
A/65/PV.16
for 
the 
to 
and 
both 
adopt 
consider 
blueprint 
Indonesia  and 
Treaty  to  enter  into  force.  Australia  welcomes  recent 
statements  by 
the  United  States 
concerning  their  intention  to  ratify  the Treaty,  and  we 
would urge all States that to date have failed to indicate 
their intention to ratify the Treaty to do so in order to 
enable it to enter into force. 

The  most  recent  Treaty  on  the  Non-proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  Review  Conference  was 
held  earlier  this  year.  Australia  and  Japan  worked 
closely  together  in  the  lead-up  to  the  Conference, 
including  through  the  jointly  sponsored  report  of  the 
International  Commission  on  Nuclear  Non-proliferation 
and  Disarmament  (ICNND),  prepared  by  the  former 
Foreign  Minister  of  Australia,  Gareth  Evans,  and  his 
Japanese 
counterpart,  Yoriko  Kawaguchi.  This 
significant  report  provided  substantial  momentum  in 
the lead-up to the Review Conference. We believe that 
the  Evans-Kawaguchi  report  of  the  ICNND  also 
the  most  comprehensive,  practical  and 
represents 
contemporary 
international 
community 
a 
comprehensive  arms  control  and  non-proliferation 
agenda. 

The  Review  Conference  agreed  by  consensus  on 
64  sets  of  actions.  And  Australia  and  Japan  took  the 
initiative this week in New York to jointly host a cross-
regional meeting of Foreign Ministers, with the aim of 
working  towards  the  implementation  of  those  64 
actions.  The  potential  catastrophe  of  nuclear  conflict 
means  that  the  status  quo  is  not  an  option.  We  must 
move  ahead  with  the  negotiation  of  a  fissile  material 
cut-off  treaty,  and  we  must  ensure  that  the  United 
Nations disarmament machinery is doing its job. 

On the wider question of security, the Australian 
Government,  under  Prime  Minister  Gillard,  warmly 
welcomes  the  statement  to  this  Assembly  by  the 
President of the United States concerning his efforts to 
achieve a comprehensive, just and sustainable peace in 
the  Middle  East  (see A/65/PV.11). Australia’s  position 
remains  constant:  such  a  settlement  must  allow  both 
Israel and a future Palestinian State to live side by side 
in  peace  and  security. Australia  calls  on  all  parties  to 
put  their  shoulders  to  the  wheel,  to  seize  the  historic 
opportunity  that  now  presents  itself  to  bring  about  a 
lasting  peace.  All  States  members  of  the  General 
Assembly  should  welcome  the  prospect  of  both  an 
Israeli and a Palestinian State being represented at the 
sixty-sixth  session  of  the  Assembly,  to  be  held  next 
year. 
10-55103 

41 
in 
the 

Over 
the  active  membership 
A/65/PV.16 


the  past  several  years,  Australia  has 
promoted  the  concept  of  an  Asia-Pacific  community 
involving 
future 
architecture of our region of both the United States and 
the  Russian  Federation.  Australia  therefore  welcomes 
the  imminent  membership  of  the  United  States  and 
Russia in the East Asia Summit. The East Asia Summit 
leaders  will  take  this  historic  decision  in  Hanoi  in 
October. Australia,  as  a  founding  member  of  the  East 
Asia  Summit,  looks  forward  to  contributing  to  the 
evolution of this wider sense of community across this, 
the most dynamic region of the world. 

On  questions  of  wider  human  security, Australia 
remains  fully  engaged  on  international  and  regional 
challenges,  including  irregular  movements  of  people, 
organized crime and people-smuggling. 

The  most  immediate  and  pressing  threat  to  the 
physical security of Australia’s wider region lies in the 
scourge  of  natural  disasters.  The  Asia-Pacific  region 
has  seen  tsunamis,  earthquakes,  volcanoes  and  floods 
on  a  massive  scale.  Australia  proposes 
the 
international  community  consider  afresh  our  capacity 
to  respond  rapidly,  coherently  and  proportionately  to 
large-scale natural disasters. 

Within our own region, Australia argues that this 
would also represent an effective benefit to the peoples 
and  countries  of  our  region,  which  are  particularly 
prone  to  natural  disasters.  It  would  also  in  time 
constitute a valuable confidence- and security-building 
measure  among  the  armed  forces,  emergency  services 
and  security  agencies  of  the  various  nation-States  of 
the  Asia  Pacific.  The  magnitude  of  what  I  witnessed 
last  week  when  I  was  in  Pakistan  underlines  the 
importance  of  better  planning,  preparation  and 
coordination  to  deal  with  natural  disasters  on  a  mass 
scale. We cannot afford simply to wait for another such 
disaster to occur before realizing that the resources  of 
the  United  Nations  and 
its  agencies  are  simply 
incapable  of  meeting  challenges  of  such  an  order  of 
magnitude. 

to  global  economic  stability 
remain  significant.  The  full  impact  of  the  global 
financial crisis is not yet clear. There are still systemic 
problems  within  the  global  financial  system.  These 
must be dealt with through the appropriate national and 
international  institutions  if  we  are  to  remove  the 
underlying causes of the crisis that began in the United 
The  challenges 
that 
the  nations  of 
Last  December, 
States in September 2008 and then proceeded to ravage 
the economies and the working people of the world. 

Beyond  the  specific  reforms  necessary  in  the 
global financial system, the parallel problem of global 
financial  imbalances  must  also  be  addressed.  These 
have formed part of the Group of 20 (G-20) agenda, in 
which  Australia  is  active.  The  objectives  of  the 
Framework  for  Strong,  Sustainable  and  Balanced 
Growth agreed to by the G-20 States at their Pittsburgh 
summit  in  September  2009  remain  essential  and  must 
be  implemented  if  we  are  to  act  on  the  causes  of  the 
recent crisis. 

the  world 
assembled  in  Copenhagen  for  the  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change  (UNFCCC).  Australia  was  an 
active  participant  at  Copenhagen.  Together  with  a 
number  of  other  States, Australia  worked  tirelessly  to 
produce  the  Copenhagen Accord.  The Accord  did  not 
represent  all  that  the  international  community  needed 
then in order to bring about a comprehensive response 
to  the  continuing  challenge  of  climate  change.  It  did, 
however, represented four significant advances. 

For  the  first  time,  the Accord  entrenched  2°C  or 
less  as  the  limit  beyond  which  global  temperatures 
could  not  be  allowed  to  rise  in  order  to  avoid 
irretrievable climate change for the planet. 

For the first time, both developed and developing 
countries  accepted  that  they  had  responsibilities  to 
bring about this outcome. 

For  the  first  time,  developed  and  developing 
countries  agreed  to  develop  a  framework  for  the 
measurement,  reporting  and  verification  of  mitigation 
actions. 
And  for  the  first  time,  developed  countries 

to  mobilizing  an  amount 
committed 
approaching  $30  billion 
international  public 
financing for immediate action in developing countries 
to  2012,  and  to  work  towards  a  goal  of  mobilizing 
$100  billion  annually  by  2020  in  funding  from  all 
sources. 
Much,  however,  remains  to  be  done.  Australia 

believes  the  international  community  must  urgently 
address the particular climate-change adaptation needs 
of the world’s most vulnerable States, in particular the 
island  countries  of  the  Pacific,  the  Caribbean  and  the 
Indian Ocean. 
themselves 
in 
42 

10-55103 
represents  about  one 
is  called 



One  significant  area  of  progress  in  the  period 
ahead  lies  in  the  proper  protection,  preservation  and 
reforestation  of  the  world’s  rainforests.  Collectively, 
rainforest  degradation  and  deforestation  in  developing 
countries 
fifth  of  global 
greenhouse gas emissions. Australia stands ready to act 
with  other  States,  including  Norway,  to  build  on  the 
work  already  done,  in  order  to  achieve  an  effective 
outcome  in  this  area  as  rapidly  as  possible.  The 
international  community  needs  to  see  an  early  sign  of 
real  success  in  our  international  efforts  to  combat 
climate  change.  We  believe  that  action  on  rainforests, 
through  what 
the  REDD-plus  set  of 
initiatives — on reducing emissions from deforestation 
and  forest  degradation  in  developing  countries  — 
represents one such area of possible early advance. 

Australia  is  now  active  on  both  the  Secretary-
General’s  High-level  Panels,  on  global  sustainability 
and  on  climate  change  finance.  This,  added  to  our 
continued  participation  in  the  UNFCCC,  means  that 
Australia will continue to be among the most globally 
active  States  in  global  forums  for  bringing  about  a 
comprehensive and effective global response to climate 
change. In doing so, the Governments of the world will 
have  to  closely  consider  new  growth  models  that 
incorporate  both  the  concept  and  the  reality  of  lower-
carbon economies. 
this 

transformation  —  which  some  have  called  the  next 
an 
industrial 
unprecedented 
and 
employment  as  the  global  economy  embraces  new 
renewable  energy 
efficiency  measures  and  new 
strategies.  The 
to 
embrace  a  new  way  of  looking  at  climate  change, 
which  sees  action  on  climate  change  providing  new 
industries,  new  investment  and  new  job  opportunities 
for the future. 

All  Governments  represented  in  the  Assembly 
participated  in  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  Australia 
fully embraces the MDG framework. 

This  week,  in  New  York,  we  said  that  our  aid 
programme has doubled over the last five years and is 
projected to double again by 2015. Over time, more of 
our aid will go to the least developed countries, and we 
will  continue  to  give  high  priority  to  assisting  the 
international  community  needs 
revolution  — 
opportunity 
also 
for 
represents 
investment 
economies  of 
the  world, 
For 
the 
10-55103 

A/65/PV.16
world’s  small  island  States,  particularly  our  Pacific 
neighbours, in recognition of their special needs. 

We expect to invest some $5 billion in education 
by  2015,  including  support  for  universal  primary 
education.  Australia  also  expects  to  invest  at  least 
$1.6 billion  in  women’s  and  children’s  health  up  to 
2015. 

Australia  applauds  the  initiative  to  create  a  new 
institution  entitled  UN  Women,  under  the  capable 
leadership  of 
the  new  Under-Secretary-General, 
Michelle Bachelet, former President of Chile. Australia 
looks forward to working with UN Women on the vast 
array  of  challenges  which  half  of  humanity  faces  and 
for  which  our  existing  international  frameworks  have 
been found wanting. The education of women and girls 
and the security of women and girls from violence and 
sexual abuse and exploitation must now become a core 
part of our global campaign for a fairer world. 
Human  rights  abuses  and  humanitarian  crises  in 

failing States continue to plague us. We must enhance 
the  negotiations  on  the  responsibility  to  protect  and 
support  the  mandate  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court.  We  must  also  continue  to  speak  out  against 
flagrant abuses. 

Often  it  is  the  indigenous  peoples  of  the  world 
who suffer most. I am proud of Australia’s apology to 
our own indigenous peoples and  our policy of  closing 
the  gap  between 
indigenous  and  non-indigenous 
Australians. I am also proud of Australia’s support for 
the  Declaration  on  the  Rights  of  Indigenous  Peoples. 
Australia  is  making  a  major  effort  in  the  treatment  of 
our  indigenous  peoples,  although  we  still  have  a  long 
way to go. 

Australia  is  a  founding  Member  of  the  United 
Nations. We have been active in this institution for the 
last 65 years. 

We are also a candidate for the Security Council 
for  the  2013-2014  term.  Australia  has  contributed 
65,000  of  our  number  to  52  different  peacekeeping 
missions across the world. We remain active in several 
such  peace  operations  today,  including  in  Cyprus, 
Sudan, Timor-Leste and Afghanistan. 

Over  the  years, Australia  has  a  led  a  number  of 
significant  United  Nations  initiatives,  including  the 
Cambodia  peace  settlement  and  the  conclusion  of  the 
Comprehensive  Test-Ban  Treaty  and  the  Chemical 
Weapons Convention, as well as leading the force that 
43 
including 
institutions, 
its  people  voted  for 
A/65/PV.16 

stabilized  Timor-Leste  after 
independence. 

Australia  remains  intimately  engaged  in  all  the 
funds,  programmes  and  specialized  agencies  of  the 
in  other 
United  Nations.  We  are  also  active 
international 
the 
Commonwealth. 

Australia is the twelfth largest source of funding 
for  the  United  Nations  budget.  Australia  pays  in  full 
and on time. We always seek to do that which we say 
we will do. 

Australia  wants  to  be  part  of  the  solution  to  the 
many challenges that the international community now 
faces, not just point to the problems. Australia believes 
in the power of creative ideas and active diplomacy to 
solve  long-standing  international  problems.  Australia 
values  good  international  citizenship.  It  is  for  these 
reasons  that  Australia  has  been  committed  to  the 
United Nations since the very beginning. 

The  United  Nations  is  inevitably  imperfect.  As 
the  Organization’s  second  Secretary-General  —  the 
great  Swede,  Dag  Hammarskjöld  —  famously  said, 
“The United Nations was not created in order to bring 
us to heaven, but in order to save us from hell”. 

Our responsibility today is to fulfil the vision that 
our  forebears  had  for  this  great  institution  65  years 
ago.  Our  responsibility  is  to  make  the  United  Nations 
fulfil  its  mission  —  to  make  the  United  Nations  work 
through  the  combined  political  will  of  all  Member 
States. 

Excellency  Mr. Kanat  Saudabayev,  Minister 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Kazakhstan. 
Mr.  Saudabayev
in 

Russian):  First  of  all, 
to  offer 
congratulations 
sixty-fifth 
anniversary  of  the  United  Nations.  For  an  individual 
person,  65  is  an  age  when  life  experience  turns  into 
wisdom.  As  the  great  Goethe  once  said,  it  is  our 
experience  that  teaches  us  to  truly  appreciate  life. 
Today,  the  United  Nations,  with  its  65  years  of 
experience  gained  in  the  noble  work  for  peace  and 
progress, 
relevant 
international organization there is. Each State Member 
of the United Nations,  regardless of its  size or  power, 
seeks to contribute to building a safer and better world. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 
for 
(Kazakhstan) 
I  would 
reputable  and 
the  most 
upcoming 
(spoke 
is 
on 
the 
like 

has 
initiative 
resolution 
reaffirmed 
effectively 
to  adopt  a 

On 29 August 1949, the first atomic explosion on 
the  ancient  Kazakh  land  was  carried  out  near  the  city 
of  Semipalatinsk,  unleashing  an  insane  nuclear  arms 
race and inflicting enormous suffering on the people of 
Kazakhstan.  On  29  August  1991,  the  President  of 
Kazakhstan, Mr. Nursultan Nazarbayev, issued a decree 
that unilaterally shut down, once and for all, one of the 
world’s largest nuclear test sites. 

It  is  highly  symbolic  that  18  years  later,  the 
General Assembly  at  its  preceding  session  acted  upon 
his 
resolution  establishing 
29 August  as  the  International  Day  against  Nuclear 
Tests  (resolution  64/35).  The  unanimous  adoption  of 
the 
the 
commitment  of  the  international  community  to  the 
process of reducing the nuclear threat. 

The  April  visit  of  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon  to  Kazakhstan  started  with  a  tour  of  the 
former  Semipalatinsk  nuclear  test  site.  Standing  right 
on the former Ground Zero, he urged the international 
community to redouble its efforts to create a world free 
of nuclear weapons. 
For the people of Kazakhstan, who know only too 

well all the horrors of nuclear tests, the issue of a total 
ban  on  such  tests  is  particularly  relevant.  Over  the 
course of 40 years, some 490 nuclear explosions were 
carried  out  at  the  Semipalatinsk  test  site,  affecting 
more than half a million people and damaging territory 
as large as today’s Germany. 

Today we call upon States that have not signed or 
ratified  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty 
(CTBT)  to  do  so  as  soon  as  possible.  The  entry  into 
force of the CTBT will become one of the key areas of 
effective 
the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  an 
important  instrument  forming  a  foundation  for  the 
security of all humanity. 

We are satisfied that the States parties to the NPT 
were  able  to  adopt  a  final  document  last  May  at  the 
conclusion  of  the  latest  NPT  Review  Conference.  But 
new  and  more  decisive  steps  are  needed  today  for 
nuclear  disarmament.  An  early  drafting  of  a  Fissile 
Material  Cut-off  Treaty,  which  along  with  the  CTBT 
should  become  an  important  pillar  of  the  NPT,  is  one 
such step. 
implementation  of 
the  Treaty  on 
44 

10-55103 
in 
in 
to 
binding 
including 
providing 
instrument 
the  establishment  of 



We  believe  that  it  is  extremely  important  to 
begin,  as  soon  as  possible,  to  draft  an  international 
legally 
security 
assurances  by  nuclear  Powers  to  non-nuclear-weapon 
States.  Only  such  assurances  can  effectively  keep  in 
check  the  aspirations  of  certain  non-nuclear  States  to 
acquire  nuclear  weapons,  which  they  regard  as  a 
guarantee of their own security. 
The establishment of new zones free from nuclear 

weapons, 
the  Middle  East,  would 
represent another step towards achieving the goal of a 
nuclear-free  world.  We  are  convinced  that  a  focused 
that  direction  would 
and  progressive  move 
contribute 
trust  among 
neighbours in the region and lay the foundations for a 
radical  change  in  the  situation  of  that  long-suffering 
region. 

Addressing  the  Assembly  from  this  rostrum,  I 
would like to reaffirm the urgency and relevance of the 
initiative of the President of Kazakhstan, Mr. Nursultan 
Nazarbayev,  to  draft  a  universal  declaration  on  a 
nuclear-free  world,  which  would 
the 
commitment  of  all  States  to  firmly  and  consistently 
move towards a nuclear-weapon-free world. 

We support the legitimate and inalienable right of 
each State party to the NPT to develop nuclear energy 
for peaceful purposes. However, such activities should 
be carried out in a transparent manner and on the basis 
of  strict  compliance  with  all  requirements  of  the 
International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and under 
its  control.  Kazakhstan,  the  world’s  largest  uranium 
producer,  intends  to  contribute  to  the  development  of 
nuclear  energy  and  is  ready  to  host  an  international 
nuclear fuel bank, under the auspices of the IAEA, and 
to commit itself to its safe storage. 

As  2010  Chairman-in-Office  of  the  Organization 
for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE), 
Kazakhstan, in the interests of all participating States, 
has  emphasized  efforts  to  shape  not  a  security  space 
but  a  security  community,  free  of  dividing  lines  and 
zones with different levels of security. 

The  promotion  of  an  atmosphere  of  trust  in  the 
interests  of  all  and  strengthening  consensus  on  key 
issues  in  all  three  dimensions  of  OSCE  activities  has 
made  it  possible  to  reach  a  historic  consensus  on  an 
OSCE summit, to be held on 1 and 2 December 2010 in 
the capital of Kazakhstan. It will be the first such event 
in the past 11 years. I have no doubt that this upcoming 
reflect 
A/65/PV.16
in 
an 
and 
efforts 
by 
favours 
landmark 
enhanced 
the 
Astana  summit  will  become  a 
progressive  movement  of 
the  OSCE  participating 
States towards shaping a truly common and indivisible 
security  community  in  the  Euro-Atlantic  and  Eurasian 
zones,  based  on  shared  values,  principles  and 
commitments. 

In  that  regard,  we  view  the  discussion  at  this 
OSCE  summit  of  the  issue  of  the  stabilization  and 
social and economic rehabilitation of Afghanistan as an 
important  contribution  to  regional  and  global  security. 
Time  has  proven  that  a  purely  military  solution  to  the 
Afghan  problem  does  not 
exist.  Accordingly, 
Kazakhstan 
the 
international  community  to  adapt Afghanistan  to  post-
war  development.  On  the  initiative  of  our  head  of 
State, an educational programme has begun this year to 
train  some  1,000  Afghan  nationals  in  the  educational 
institutions  of  Kazakhstan  for  careers  in  medicine, 
agriculture  and  construction.  We  have  allocated 
$50 million to that purpose. 

The  serious  political  crisis  in  Kyrgyzstan,  which 
could  have  extremely  negative  consequences  not  only 
for  Central  Asia  but  also  far  beyond  its  borders,  has 
demonstrated 
and 
comprehensive  mechanism  to  prevent  such  conflicts. 
That is why the forthcoming OSCE summit provides a 
unique  opportunity 
appropriate 
the  great  potential  and 
mechanism,  drawing  on 
experience of the OSCE, the United Nations and other 
multilateral institutions. 

In  the  context  of  countering  new  challenges  and 
threats,  primarily  terrorism  and  drug  trafficking,  we 
pay  close  attention  to  the  implementation  of  counter-
terrorism 
Security  Council 
resolutions,  and  we  support  early  adoption  of  a 
comprehensive  convention  on  international  terrorism. 
Kazakhstan has actively supported the Global Initiative 
to  Combat  Nuclear  Terrorism.  At  the  initiative  of 
President  Nursultan  Nazarbayev,  Kazakhstan  put 
forward  at  the  global  Nuclear  Security  Summit  in 
Washington, in April 2010, a proposal for a conference 
on countering the financing of terrorism. 

That  phenomenon  is  closely  linked  to  drug 
trafficking,  and  thus  combating  that  scourge  is  one  of 
our  top  priorities.  Accordingly,  Kazakhstan  attaches 
great 
the  Central  Asian  Regional 
Information  and  Coordination  Center  (CARICC)  for 
combating 
in  narcotic  drugs, 
to  develop 
conventions 
importance 
trafficking 
effective 
illicit 
of 
an 
the 
lack 
to 
10-55103 

45 
the 
and 
and 
intercultural 
initiative  of 
the  Organization  of 
the  framework  of  our  activities 
A/65/PV.16 

psychotropic  substances  and  their  precursors,  located 
in Almaty,  Kazakhstan.  We  believe  that  CARICC  can 
and should become a platform for interaction between 
regional anti-drug agencies. 
We  also  intend  to  take  those  issues  forward 

within 
in  other 
international  organizations,  including  the  upcoming 
2011-2012 Kazakhstan chairmanship of the Ministerial 
Conference  of 
Islamic 
Conference  (OIC).  One  of  the  universally  accepted 
themes is the promotion of the ideas of tolerance, non-
discrimination, 
interfaith 
dialogue.  At 
the  President  of 
Kazakhstan, Astana has become the venue for a unique 
forum, 
the  Congress  of  Leaders  of  World  and 
Traditional Religions, recognized today as an effective 
platform  for  dialogue  to  promote  ideas  of  interfaith 
peace and harmony. 

As a sponsor of resolution 62/90, we welcome the 
efforts  of  Member  States,  UNESCO  and  other 
international  organizations  to  conduct  activities  in 
observance  of 
the 
Rapprochement of Cultures. 

the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations  and  stand  ready  to  continue  to  actively 
cooperate with it to promote the goals and objectives of 
the Alliance at the international level. 

Based on its experience, Kazakhstan supports the 
active  use  of  the  capacity  of  authoritative  regional 
arrangements,  such  as  the  OSCE  and  the  OIC,  in 
efforts  to  overcome  nationalism,  religious  intolerance, 
racism,  xenophobia  and  anti-Semitism,  and  we  intend 
to  work  for  the  adoption  of  concrete  decisions  within 
those  organizations.  We  are  deeply  convinced  that 
today security cannot be for a single country, region or 
continent alone. Therefore Kazakhstan believes that all 
existing  structures  of 
international 
security  must  coordinate  their  efforts  and  cooperate 
actively together. 

In  this  context,  I  would  like  to  note  with  great 
satisfaction that the first meeting of the Conference on 
Interaction  and  Confidence-building  Measures  in Asia 
and  the  OSCE,  which  was  held  in  June  2010  in 
Istanbul,  has 
future 
transcontinental  security  belt.  It  appears  that  the  level 
of institutional development of the Conference and the 
growing  interest  in  its  activities  on  the  part  of  Asian 
International  Year 
We  commend 
regional  and 
the  work  of 
foundation 
for  a 
laid 
the 
for 

in 
countries  will  allow  us  to  consider  that  forum  as  a 
prototype of a collective security system in Asia. 

Today,  the  world  is  slowly  but  surely  emerging 
from  a  severe  financial  and  economic  crisis.  At  this 
juncture,  it  is  critically  important  to  ensure  that  the 
development  of  a  post-crisis  model  of  development  is 
not  limited  to  cosmetic  measures.  Instead,  it  should 
produce a qualitative restructuring of the entire system 
of international economic relations. We believe that all 
the  world’s  economic  problems  are  rooted  in  the 
inefficiency  of  the  existing  world  monetary  system, 
which no one controls and which is not democratic. 

Kazakhstan’s  leader  has  proposed  that  a  new 
financial  architecture  be  developed,  with  a  global 
regulatory  system  to  oversee  financial  markets  at  its 
core.  Such  a  mechanism  would  allow  us  to  avoid 
speculative  interflows  of  resources  that  exist  only  on 
paper and a situation in which developing countries are 
actually  financing  consumption 
the  developed 
countries.  The  establishment  of  a  more  stable 
macroeconomic  model,  in  our  view,  calls  for  the 
introduction  of  a  single  supranational  currency,  under 
the auspices of the United Nations. 

Finding  an  urgent  solution  to  environmental 
problems  is  one  of  our  main  responsibilities  to  future 
generations.  It  is  also  a  prerequisite  of  preserving  life 
on  Earth.  In  this  context,  we  have  initiated  plans  for 
holding  ministerial  conferences  for  the  Economic  and 
Social  Commission  for  Asia  and  the  Pacific  and  the 
Economic  Commission  for  Europe  in  2010  or  2011  in 
Astana.  The  goal  of  these  events  is  to  build  a  “green 
bridge”  between  Europe  and  Asia  and  to  harmonize 
programmes 
and 
environmental protection. 
We  appreciate  the  assistance  provided  by  the 

international community, including the United Nations 
and  its  specialized  agencies  and  programmes,  to  our 
country’s 
effects  of 
environmental  disasters 
the  Aral  Sea  and 
Semipalatinsk  regions.  Given  their  global  nature,  they 
call  for  an  effective  new  approach  on  the  part  of  the 
donor community to solve these problems. 
the 

democratization  of  its  society  and  building  a  State 
based  on  the  rule  of  law.  In  February  this  year,  our 
country  successfully  passed  its  first  universal  periodic 
review  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  intends  to 
fully  implement  its  recommendations.  Reaffirming  its 
to  overcome 
development 
Kazakhstan 
sustainable 
committed 
efforts 
firmly 
the 
for 
to 
in 
is 
the 
the 
46 

10-55103 


commitment  to  open  and  constructive  cooperation  in 
the  area  of  human  rights,  Kazakhstan  has  sent  a 
standing  invitation  to  all  mandate  holders  of  the 
Council’s special procedures. 

Our  country  has  always  been  and  still  remains 
open  to  cooperation  with  the  international  community 
in  the  protection  and  realization  of  individual  rights 
and  freedoms.  With  those  values  and  ideals  in  mind, 
Kazakhstan  has  put  forward  its  candidature  to  the 
Human Rights Council for the 2012-2015 term, which 
we hope will be supported. 
A/65/PV.16

Over  the  past  65  years  the  United  Nations  has 
made  an  enormous  contribution  to  international  peace 
and  security  on  the  Earth  and  to  the  solution  of  many 
social,  economic,  humanitarian  and  other  problems.  It 
is  in  our  common  interests  that  the  United  Nations 
continue to demonstrate leadership in promoting peace 
and  cooperation  and  sustainable  progress  on  Earth. 
Kazakhstan  not  only  has  consistently  supported  and 
supports  the  activities  of  the  United  Nations,  but 
always seeks to contribute to the attainment of the lofty 
goals set by our respected Organization. 




  The meeting rose at 2.15 p.m. 
10-55103 

47 
