
A/65/PV.23
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

23rd plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 29 September 2010, 9 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 





  The meeting was called to order at 9.10 a.m.  


Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Wilfred  Elrington,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade of Belize. 
Mr. Elrington (Belize): Please permit me, Sir, on 

behalf of the Belize delegation to congratulate you on 
your  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  sixty-fifth 
session  of  the  United  Nations  General  Assembly.  As 
much  as  our  peoples  share  common  values  of  peace 
and democracy, your country and my own could not be 
more  different.  Switzerland  is  landlocked  with  a  land 
mass  twice  the  size  and  a  population  25  times  that  of 
my  coastal  country.  Belize  has  a  $1  billion  economy 
and Switzerland has a $400 billion economy. Nominal 
gross  domestic  product  per  capita  in  Switzerland  is 
estimated  at  $67,000,  while  in  Belize  that  figure  is 
roughly $4,000.  

I  bring  up  the  differences  between  Belize  and 
Switzerland  because  they  are  illustrative  of  the  stark 
differences  that  epitomize  today’s  world.  We  in  this 
Hall  tout  sovereign  equality,  but  we  experience  social 
and  economic  disparity  on  a  daily  basis,  across  the 
globe.  Inequality  persists  between  nations  and  within 
nations. Poverty proliferates in the midst of plenty. 

In  my  own  country,  although  real  output  per 
capita  grew  over  the  past  10  years,  so  too  did  the 
proportion of Belizeans living in poverty. In other words, 
the  commensurate 
we  experienced  growth  without 
development of our people. 

Belize  accepts  that  development  is  a  matter  of 
national  responsibility.  However,  our  contemporary 
reality now renders questions that were hitherto matters 
of  national  concern,  matters  of  global  concern.  As  a 
consequence  of  globalization, 
the  management 
capacity of a State has diminished. Our macroeconomic 
policy  and  fiscal  capacity  cannot  adequately  address 
the  multiple  exogenous  shocks  occasioned,  inter  alia, 
by the triumvirate of the financial, food and fuel crises. 

Adequate and appropriate international support at 
this time is therefore critical if we are to avoid drifting 
further  and  further  away  from  the  attainment  of  our 
development  goals.  In  that  connection,  developed 
nations  urgently  need  to  make  good  their  promise  to 
deliver  0.7  per  cent  of 
their  GDP  for  official 
development assistance (ODA). 

For  Belize,  meaningful  international  support  is 
becoming  increasingly  harder  to  come  by  because  of 
our designation as a middle-income country. While we 
continue  to  benefit  from  ODA  and  foreign  direct 
investment in our quest to further integrate Belize into 
the  global  economy,  for  the  most  part  expensive 
foreign  and  local  commercial  debt  has  in  fact  fuelled 
the country’s development strategy. 

Thus,  in  the  past  15  years,  Belize  has  built  up  a 
high  level  of  public  debt,  with  high-cost  long-term 
financing.  The  ratio  of  public  debt  to  GDP  grew 
steadily,  from  about  27  per  cent  in  1995  to  70.3  per 
cent in 2008, with a peak of 87 per cent in 2005. That 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-55396 (E) 
*1055396* 


in  one 
slippage 
threatens 
A/65/PV.23 

debt-led  strategy,  which  was  the  model  of  many  other 
countries,  will  surely  become  an  unwelcome  and 
unwanted burden for our children. 

Perennial debt-servicing obligations constrain my 
Government’s  capacity  to  increase  social  investments, 
especially in those areas where they are most needed. It 
is  therefore  not  surprising  that  Belize  finds  itself  off 
track 
in  meeting  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  on  poverty,  hunger,  education  and 
the 
empowerment  of  women.  Considering  the  synergies 
between  Goals, 
the 
achievement of others. 
The  terms  of  engagement  between  international 

financial 
institutions  and  middle-income  countries 
must  be  revised  if  countries  such  as  my  own  are  to 
break  away  from 
the  vicious  cycle  of  debt-led 
development.  While  those  terms  will  necessarily  have 
to  provide  for  suitable  risk-mitigation  strategies,  they 
should not be so burdensome as to constrain our policy 
space. They must respect the national ownership of our 
development  initiatives.  International  cooperation  and 
support therefore must complement, rather than dictate, 
the way forward. 

long 
provided valuable assistance, for which we will always 
be grateful, we are now benefiting from new modalities 
of  cooperation,  which  are  yielding  more  direct  and 
immediate returns for our people. Belize’s cooperation 
experience  with  Taiwan  exemplifies  a  model  of 
cooperation based on partnership. With the help of the 
Government  of Taiwan,  Belize  has  steadily  developed 
its  capacity 
in  agricultural  research,  aquaculture, 
education and social-sector investment. 

In  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  region, 
cooperation  has  long  been  based  on  that  approach. 
Belize has benefited immensely from partnerships with 
Cuba,  Brazil,  Mexico  and  Venezuela.  Of  special 
significance  is  the  cooperation  in  the  health  sector.  In 
fact,  today  the  progress  that  we  can  claim  on  the 
health-related  MDGs  is  a  testament,  in  part,  to  those 
partnerships. 

Beyond our hemispheric relations, we are forging 
new  partnerships.  We  recently  received  two  years’ 
worth  of  emergency  relief  materials  from  the  United 
Arab  Emirates,  for  which  we  are  most  appreciative, 
given  the  frequency  of  hurricane  visitations  to  our 
shores  in  recent  years.  Through  those  partnerships, 
Belize  is  being  enabled  to  pursue  its  broader  national 
traditional  donors  have 
While  Belize’s 
Current 
structures 
decision-making 
development  objectives.  Our  experience 
is  being 
replicated the world over, as we see in other examples 
of  South-South  cooperation.  We  need  now  to  make 
those partnerships the standard for global cooperation. 

At  the  United  Nations,  we  have  long  focused  on 
official  development  assistance  as  being  synonymous 
with global partnerships. That myopic view needs to be 
broadened,  and  we  must  disabuse  ourselves  of  the 
donor-driven  dialectic.  The  United  Nations  has  the 
responsibility to craft a new orientation, from a donor-
recipient culture to one of true partnership with mutual 
respect.  

As  every  speaker  in  this  debate  has  emphasized, 
in  order  for  this  institution  to  meet  that  challenge,  it 
must itself reform. 

and 
organization tend towards a North-South polarity. That 
dynamic imperils cooperation and renders debate more 
ceremony than meaningful dialogue. Over the 65 years 
of 
the  United  Nations  existence,  our  world  has 
changed.  We  are  dealing  with  new  realities.  The 
Organization  is  nearly  universal,  with  192  countries 
represented here. The club of nuclear-power States has 
expanded,  and  may  yet  continue  to  expand.  Global 
integration  has  deepened  with  technology,  market 
liberalization  and  the  freer  movement  of  capital.  Our 
interdependence has generated global systemic risks.  

We  need  a  United  Nations  that  reflects  more 
equitable  North-South  representation  and  that  can 
effectively  deliver.  That  means  that  the  organs  of  the 
United  Nations  must  be  reformed.  The  process  of 
decision-making  must  ensure  coherence  and  be 
inclusive.  Above  all,  equity  and  justice  must  inform 
our mechanisms for delivery. The reform we seek goes 
much  deeper  than  the  changing  of  the  guards;  it  is  a 
reform  that  would  rebuild  trust  among  each  other  and 
confidence in the system. 

Belize is crafting a twenty-first century vision for 
a  modern,  green  and  sustainable  economy  predicated 
human 
on 
development  and 
is 
working  towards  building  domestic  capital  through 
social  investments,  job  creation,  improved  access  to 
credit and combating crime and violence. 

To  that  end,  we  have  launched  project  Restore 
Belize, which encompasses a comprehensive anti-crime 
initiative 
socio-economic 
innovation.  Our  Government 
capacity-building, 
complemented 
dignity, 
human 
by 
a 
2 

10-55396 
for 
for 
the 
adults, 
onward 
lending 
through 
education 
corporation 
that  we  achieve 
the  provision  of  skills 


component  aimed  at  restoring  the  social  fabric  of  our 
society 
training, 
continuing 
infrastructure 
development  and  fostering  civic  pride.  We  have 
instituted  school  feeding  programmes,  subsidies  for 
students  of  secondary  schools,  seed  programmes  for 
farmers  and  capitalization  of  our  own  development 
finance 
to 
entrepreneurs.  

The  Government  has  also  undertaken  a  national 
multiparty  and  multisectoral  consultative  process  to 
redefine  our  national  development  objectives  in  our 
Horizon  2030  project.  In  addition,  the  Prime  Minister 
has  established  a  council  of  science  advisers  to  better 
inform the Horizon 2030 process on the integration of 
science  and  technology  in  the  national  development 
agenda. 

Belize  is  resolutely  embracing  its  responsibility 
for  its  national  development.  Our  efforts  are  aimed 
towards  ensuring 
type  of 
development  that  genuinely  affords  all  our  people  the 
opportunity to realize their true potential with dignity. 
To  that  end,  we  seek  only  empathy  and  partnership 
from the United Nations, not charity. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor to His Excellency Mr. S. M. Krishna, Minister for 
External Affairs of India. 
Mr.  Krishna  (India):  Allow  me  to  begin  by 

congratulating  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as  President 
of  the  General  Assembly  and  by  assuring  you  of  the 
full  cooperation  of  my  delegation.  In  the  interest  of 
saving  the  Assembly’s  valuable  time,  I  will  read  out 
only part of my address, the full text of which has been 
circulated.  

The United Nations was created, 65 years ago, to 
save  succeeding  generations  from  the  scourge  of  war, 
to  affirm  faith  in  fundamental  rights,  to  establish 
conditions  under  which  respect  for  international  law 
can be maintained  and to  promote social progress and 
better standards of life in larger freedom. Six and a half 
decades later, globalization has made the world a much 
smaller  place.  It  has  also  created  conditions  whereby 
the  problems  and  challenges  of  one  country  or  region 
can very quickly become those of the larger community 
of nations. 

Terrorism  and  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of 
mass  destruction,  maritime  piracy,  pandemics  and 
the 
10-55396 

3 
A/65/PV.23
the 
those 
circumstances 
realities  and 
truly  revitalize 
We  must  also 
the  negotiations 
to  an  early  and 
epidemics,  organized  crime  and  narcotics  smuggling 
recognize  no  borders  or  boundaries.  Similarly,  the 
fallout  of  intra-State  conflicts,  failed  States,  climate 
change,  natural  disasters,  food  shortages  and  financial 
and  economic  crises  transcend  countries  and  regions. 
Under 
international 
community  looks  to  the  United  Nations  to  overcome 
the  common  challenges  of  humankind  through  the 
harmonized actions of nations, as stated in the Charter. 

The  United  Nations  is  the  only  organization  that 
can  be  at  the  centre  of  an  international  governance 
system.  However,  it  needs  urgent  reform  to  reflect 
contemporary 
to  effectively  meet 
emerging global challenges. The first step has to be the 
reform  of  the  Security  Council.  The  overwhelming 
majority  of  the  membership  has  been  clear  in  seeking 
an expansion in both the permanent and non-permanent 
categories  of  membership.  It  is  imperative  that  we 
bring 
logical 
conclusion. 

the  General 
Assembly. It must reclaim its position on vital matters 
such  as  the  appointment  of  the  Secretary-General  and 
the  relationship  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Bretton  Woods  institutions. Along  with  the  Economic 
and Social Council, the General Assembly should also 
set  the  paradigms  of  multilateral  engagement  for  the 
global 
and 
developmental cooperation.  

It is matter of much satisfaction that this year we 
have significantly advanced the United Nations reform 
agenda  in  the  areas  of  gender  equality  and  women’s 
empowerment. 
strong 
commitment to UN Women and to its strengthening.  
We  also  need  to  ensure  that  the  review  of  the 

Human Rights Council this year adds to the Council’s 
role  as  an  effective,  credible  and  premier  United 
Nations mechanism dealing with human rights.  
My  Government  accords  the  highest  priority  to 

the  attainment  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
Our  development  challenges  were  exacerbated  by  the 
financial  and  economic  crisis  that  started  in  2008. 
Acting  in  concert,  the  Group  of  20  (G-20),  which 
includes 
largest  developed  and  developing 
countries,  reacted  promptly  and  purposefully  to  stem 
the  global  slowdown  and  send  a  strong  message  of 
confidence  and  stability.  India  believes 
the  
G-20 — the premier forum for international economic 
reiterate  our 
development 
economy 
I  wish 
that 
and 
for 
to 

It 
its 
respective  capabilities. 
A/65/PV.23 

cooperation  —  can  help  catalyse  strong,  balanced  and 
sustainable growth for the benefit of everyone. 

As a country vulnerable to, and already suffering 
from,  the  impacts  of  climate  change,  India  has  an 
important stake in the success of ongoing international 
negotiations in that regard. There is no substitute to the 
United  Nations-led  process,  with 
inherent 
inclusiveness  and  transparency,  to  lead  us  to  an 
ambitious  and  equitable  outcome  that  respects  the 
the  United  Nations 
provisions  and  principles  of 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
in 
particular  the  principle  of  common  but  differentiated 
responsibilities  and 
is 
important that there be acceptance of equal sharing of 
the resource of the atmosphere for all human beings. 

India  has  an  abiding  commitment  to  achieve 
universal  and  non-discriminatory  nuclear  disarmament 
within a specified time frame — a vision that was most 
eloquently  articulated  in  the  Assembly  by  Prime 
Minister Rajiv Gandhi in 1988. More than two decades 
later, that goal still remains distant. Meanwhile, newer 
threats have emerged, including the danger of terrorists 
gaining access to weapons of mass destruction. 
India  introduced  a  working  paper  on  nuclear 

disarmament 
in  2006,  which  contained  specific 
proposals  that  reflect  the  spirit  and  substance  of  the 
Rajiv Gandhi action plan. We call for an intensification 
of  discussion  and  dialogue  among  Member  States  and 
the  larger  non-governmental  community,  so  as  to 
strengthen  an  international  consensus  that  can  be 
translated  into  concrete  action  to  achieve  nuclear 
disarmament.  

India  remains  committed  to  the  negotiations  in 
the  Conference  on  Disarmament  on  a  multilateral,  
non-discriminatory and internationally verifiable fissile 
material  cut-off  treaty  that  meets  India’s  national 
security interests. We hope that the Conference will be 
able  to  commence  negotiations  at  an  early  date.  We 
remain  committed 
to  a  unilateral  and  voluntary 
moratorium on nuclear-explosives testing. 

Terrorism has emerged as one of the most serious 
threats to international peace and security. To defeat it, 
it  is  imperative  for  the  global  community  to  build  on 
international  cooperation  and  take  concerted  action 
against  terrorists  and  their  sponsors.  There  can  be  no 
justification for terrorism, just as there can be no good 
or bad terrorists. We urge Member States to display the 
necessary  political  will  to  finalize  and  adopt  the 
comprehensive convention on international terrorism. 
Peace  and  stability  in  South  Asia  is  one  of  our 

to  good-
highest  priorities.  We  are  committed 
neighbourly 
relations  with  all  our  neighbours, 
including Pakistan. In that spirit of solidarity with the 
people  of  Pakistan  in  their  hour  of  need  we  pledged 
$25  million  in  aid,  which  is  being  channelled  through 
the  United  Nations  for  flood  relief  efforts  in  that 
country.  As  a  neighbour,  we  wish  to  provide  succour 
and  relief  in  a  timely  manner  to  the  victims  of  that 
natural disaster. We are saddened by the loss of life and 
property  that  Pakistan  has  suffered  as  a  result  of  the 
unprecedented floods. 

It  is  well  known  that  many  countries  have  deep-
rooted concerns about the growth and consolidation of 
militancy  and  terrorism  in  Pakistan.  We  share  those 
concerns,  particularly  because  Jammu  and  Kashmir, 
which is an integral part of India, has been the target of 
such  Pakistan-sponsored  militancy  and  terrorism  for 
many  years  now.  Pakistan  must  fulfil  its  solemn 
commitment  not to  allow territory under its control to 
be  used  for  terrorism  directed  against  India.  Credible 
and  firm  action  by  Pakistan  against  terrorist  groups 
operating from its soil is in the interest of the region, as 
it is in Pakistan’s own interest.  

to  us  on 
impart 
democracy  and  human  rights.  If,  however,  Pakistan 
were to live up to its commitment not to allow the use 
of territory under its control by terrorists acting against 
India,  that  would  significantly  help  reduce  the  trust 
deficit that impedes the development of better bilateral 
relations  between  our 
two  countries.  We  are 
neighbours, and as neighbours we have an obligation to 
work together. 

successfully  concluded 
parliamentary  elections.  We  believe  the  international 
community  needs  to  be  steadfast  in  its  engagement 
with  Afghanistan 
its 
reconstruction  efforts  and 
its  emergence  as  a 
democratic,  pluralistic  and  prosperous  society.  The 
continuing existence of safe havens and sanctuaries for 
terrorists  beyond  Afghanistan’s  borders  is  the  major 
impediment to the restoration of peace and security in 
Afghanistan.  That  should  be  a  primary  focus  of  the 
international community. 

Minister, said in 1948:  
Pandit  Jawaharlal  Nehru,  India’s  first  Prime 
Pakistan  cannot 
the  success  of 
Afghanistan 
lessons 
recently 
to  ensure 
4 

10-55396 



“The fundamental principles on which the United 
Nations  is  based  are  right  principles. We  believe 
in those fundamental principles and want to help 
the Organization in following these principles.” 
The Government and the more than 1 billion people of 
India  have  stood  by  that  commitment.  I  would  like  to 
solemnly  reaffirm  our  faith  in  the  principles  that 
underlie the United Nations, and in the United Nations 
system itself. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor to His Excellency Mr. Luis Almagro, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Uruguay. 
Mr. Almagro (Uruguay) (spoke in Spanish): Our 

goals at the national level are goals we also want to see 
achieved  in  the  international  community.  They  are 
goals  that  the  international  community  must  tackle  as 
priorities.  They  include  eradicating  indigence  and 
reducing and eliminating poverty and its root causes, as 
well  as  ensuring  a  dignified  life  and  favourable 
working  conditions 
for  all.  We  also  want  an 
international  system  that  is  more  democratic  and 
efficient. We  want the issues that I have mentioned to 
be  resolved  through  cross-cutting  policies.  We  can 
work  to  promote  democracy  in  every  country  of  the 
system,  but  we  are  badly  off  indeed  if  the  law  of  the 
strongest prevails in the overall system.  
Uruguay  will  always  take  a  moral  and  ethical 

approach  to  every  issue,  whether  with  regard  to  the 
environment, human rights or international security. In 
every instance, the ultimate guide is the human person. 
We  must  in  the  end,  therefore,  always  rely  on  our 
conscience. However, the functioning of the system is 
crucial, for that is what generates social, territorial and 
gender inequality. 

At  the  outset,  we  welcome  the  election  of  the 
Argentine  Republic  as  Chair  of  the  Group  of  77  and 
China.  Argentina  is  a  brotherly  country  that  shares 
common principles and values with us. 

Uruguay,  in  keeping  with  its  historical  path  and 
traditions, reaffirms its commitment to the principles of 
international  law.  I  would  like  to  underscore  in 
particular our firm support for the peaceful solution of 
conflicts; 
the 
principles  of  non-intervention  and  of 
the  self-
determination  of  peoples;  respect  for  human  rights; 
international 
and 
the  sovereign  equality  of  States; 
socio-economic 
cooperation; 
A/65/PV.23
and 
human 
rights 
relating 
to 
the 
protecting 
environment 
Uruguay  has  a 
multilateralism.  The  maximum  expression  of  those 
principles is to be found in this Organization. 

I  would  also  like  to  express  our  rejection  of  the 
use or the threat of use of force, of terrorism and of all 
types  of  violence,  and  of  the  application  of  coercive 
measures in contravention of the Charter of the United 
Nations,  such  as  the  economic,  financial  and  trade 
embargo against Cuba by the United States, which we 
firmly  reject.  That  unilateral  measure  is  contrary,  not 
only to the Charter but also to international law and to 
one of the most dearly held principles of my country’s 
foreign  policy,  namely,  the  peaceful  settlements  of 
disputes. 
Uruguay  is  party  to  the  principal  international 

conventions 
and 
sustainable development. Thus, we have reaffirmed our 
responsibility for the protection of the environment as 
a  human  right  and  a  fundamental  component  for 
achieving truly sustainable development. 
long  history  of  defending, 

promoting 
and 
international  humanitarian  law.  Those  principles  are  a 
central priority of the State, enshrined in the traditional 
pillars  of 
foreign  policy,  which 
constitute the political and institutional foundations of 
the  country.  We  welcome  the  progress  made  this  year 
in  Kampala,  Uganda,  which  has 
the 
strengthening  of  the  regime  established  under  the 
Statute of the International Criminal Court. Uruguay is 
among the countries that have subscribed to the widest 
range  of  conventions  in  the  area  of  human  rights  and 
international humanitarian law. 

Uruguay’s  long-standing  tradition  of  defending 
those  principles  has  allowed  us  to  take  a  leading  role 
in, among other areas, the protection and promotion of 
the rights of children. We believe it is vitally important 
that  we  continue  to  focus  our  efforts  to  promote  the 
defence  and  protection  of  children  and  to  ensure  their 
well-being. 

the 
integration of a gender perspective into all policies and 
programmes  of  the  United  Nations  system.  In  that 
respect,  we  welcome  the  adoption  of  the  resolution 
(resolution  64/289)  on  the  coherence  of  the  United 
Nations  system,  which,  in  particular,  created  the  new 
United  Nations  Entity  for  Gender  Equality  and  the 
Empowerment  of  Women.  We  would  also  like  to 
express  our  satisfaction  with  the  appointment  of  
We  also  reaffirm  our  full  support  for 
the  Republic’s 
led 
to 
10-55396 

5 
to 
the 
and 
control 
Likewise, 
advocated 
and  without  prejudice 
A/65/PV.23 

Ms.  Michelle  Bachelet,  former  President  of  Chile,  as 
Under-Secretary-General  for  UN  Women.  We  are 
confident that her experience will serve as a vital asset 
for the new Entity. 

Uruguay has a steadfast commitment to the cause 
of  peace  and  our  country’s  foreign  policy  bears 
testimony to that fact. We have given decisive support 
to  all  measures  aimed  at  the  elimination  of  nuclear 
arms and other weapons of mass destruction. We have 
also 
reduction  of 
conventional weapons. We underscore, once again, the 
importance  of  the  swift  universal  implementation  of 
these agreements. 

the 
reaffirmation  of  our  hope  to  see  a  Nuclear  Weapons 
Convention, we believe that the entry into force of the 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  and  a  fissile 
material  cut-off  treaty  during  the  present  year,  would 
constitute  decisive  steps  in  the  consolidation  and 
deepening  of  the  progress  made  in  the  area  of 
disarmament.  We  must  not  stop,  because  to  stop  is  to 
go  backwards,  and  to  go  backwards  is  to  expose 
humanity  to  the  horrendous  and  unacceptable  risk  of 
nuclear holocaust. 

It is our hope that, in 2012, a conference will be 
held,  without  further  delay  or  conditions,  in  which  all 
of  the  States  of  the  Middle  East  will  participate,  with 
the  aim  of  establishing  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone, 
free  of  all  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction  as  well, 
through freely agreed arrangements between the States 
of the region, with the full support and commitment of 
those  States  that  possess  nuclear  weapons.  Similarly, 
Uruguay  supports  the  Secretary-General’s  five-point 
initiative for a world free of nuclear weapons. 
the  United 

Nations  multilateral  system  of  peacekeeping  and 
maintenance  of  international  security,  as  well  as  in 
efforts to defend human rights and uphold international 
humanitarian  law  through  peacekeeping  operations, 
based on our conviction that these are a solid testimony 
to  the  collective  commitment  of  the  international 
community as a whole. That commitment on the part of 
my  country  can  be  seen  both  on  the  ground,  through 
our  deployment  of  more  than  2,500  Blue  Helmets, 
deployed  principally  in  Haiti  and  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, and in its work on the political 
level here at Headquarters. 
Uruguay  actively  participates 
in 

for 
to  achieve 
responsibility 
We recognize that the Security Council holds the 

primary 
the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.  But  we  believe  it  is 
extremely  important  to  promote  a  closer  relationship 
between  the  Council  and  the  General  Assembly.  The 
greater the distance between them, the more difficult it 
is  for  peacekeeping  operations 
their 
objectives  and  for  their  complex  mandates  to  be 
effectively implemented. 

In  this  respect,  the  existing  gap  between  the 
complexity of the mandates and the resources available 
poses a challenge that we must confront every day. We 
are convinced that is of fundamental importance for us 
to  ensure  that  adequate  consideration  is  given  to  the 
allocation  of  the  resources  needed  for  the  proper 
functioning of those operations. The conditions offered 
by  the  system  also  need  to  be  updated,  so  that  the 
United  Nations  has  at  its  disposal  the  equipment  and 
human  resources  that  it  needs.  That  subject  affects 
developing  countries  in  particular,  since  it  is  they 
which provide the large majority of the troops and thus 
the  viability  of  their  participation  in  missions  is  at 
stake. 

The  case  of  Haiti  probably  provides  one  of  the 
best  illustrations  of  the  need  for  a  cross-cutting 
political  effort  to  lift  a  country  out  of  a  situation  of 
crisis and institutional and social stagnation. 

the 
challenges  that  this  brotherly  country  has  had  to 
confront and continues to confront today. From 2004 to 
date,  we  have  deployed  more  than  10,000  military 
personnel  to  the  United  Nations  Stabilization  Mission 
in  Haiti,  who  have  faithfully  carried  out  the  mandate 
approved  by  the  Security  Council  for  the  stabilization 
process in that country. 

In its role as coordinator of the Group of Friends 
of Haiti, Uruguay has for some years been advocating 
for  a  mandate  that,  without  neglecting  the  urgent 
security  needs,  permits  at 
the 
establishment  of 
for 
strengthening  the  productive  capacity  of  the  country, 
which  was  seriously  affected  by  the  earthquake  of  
12 January 2010. 

In our view, greater emphasis should be placed on 
providing  teachers,  doctors,  engineers,  agronomists, 
experts  in  information  technologies  and  volunteer 
workers,  who  could  contribute  effectively  to  solving 
the  problems  of  the  Haitian  population.  Investing  in 
time 
conditions  necessary 
Uruguay  has  never  been 
indifferent 
the  same 
the 
to 
6 

10-55396 


human resources in Haiti is of fundamental importance 
for the future development of the country. 

Over  the  past  two  years,  there  has  been  an  open 
process  of  restructuring  the  peacekeeping  system, 
which was necessary given the new reality that we are 
facing. That process must be viewed as part of a larger 
project  of  reform  of  the  Organization,  which,  through 
various initiatives, seeks to be more effective, to work 
in  a  more  coordinated  manner  and  to  enjoy  greater 
legitimacy. 
Uruguay  reiterates  its  adherence  to  that  process 

of  reform  of  the  United  Nations.  The  process,  begun 
during the 2005 Summit, which gave rise to the creation 
of  two  new  structures  within  the  Organization  —  the 
Human  Rights  Council  and 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  —  should  be  brought  to  completion 
through 
the  consideration  of  various  outstanding 
topics,  including  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council. 
The current international reality is such that that body 
needs  to  be  more  representative  and  democratic.  We 
must therefore take steps to effect its expansion, while 
guarding  against  an  extension  of 
the  historical 
obstacles  that  run  contrary  to  the  principle  of  the 
sovereign equality of States, such as the right of veto. 

A  very  clear  example  of  Uruguay’s  commitment 
to  the  United  Nations  reform  process,  which  seeks  to 
establish greater effectiveness and coordination within 
the system, is its direct participation in the “Delivering 
as  One”  programme.  Three  years  after  the  pilot 
programme was launched in Uruguay, we have recently 
completed  the  country  evaluation  and  can  affirm  that 
the  design,  implementation,  follow-up  and  evaluation 
of 
the  national 
Government’s  efforts  to  strengthen  the  coordination 
among 
joint 
programming  exercise,  which  made  possible  greater 
interaction  between  agencies,  the  Government  and  the 
United Nations system. 

Uruguay  has  formally  expressed  its  aspiration  to 
occupy  a  seat  as  a  non-permanent  member  of  the 
Security Council for the period 2016-2017. We are the 
only  candidate  country  in  the  region  at  the  present 
time.  Since  its  accession  to  the  United  Nations  as  a 
founding Member and despite having pursued a foreign 
policy  inspired  by  the  same  purposes,  principles  and 
ideals  enshrined 
the  United  Nations  Charter, 
Uruguay  has  occupied  a  seat  in  the  Security  Council 
only once, which was during the period 1965-1966. 
the  process  have  contributed 
the  various  State  bodies 
through  a 
to 
in 
A/65/PV.23
in 
in 
long 
towards  building 
the  short,  medium  and 

Presenting one’s candidacy to the body  in which 
the  international  community  has  entrusted  the  current 
global  collective  security  system  constitutes  the  most 
demanding  test  of  a  State’s  foreign  policy.  In  the 
present  context,  which 
is  profoundly  marked  by 
multiple  global  crises,  it  is  imperative  that  we  work 
jointly 
long-term  strategies  and 
solutions  that  will  lead  us  to  more  just  and  equitable 
societies. 

In  that  regard,  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in 
international  economic  and  financial  governance  is 
fundamental 
terms  of  democratizing  decision-
making  and  ensuring  equal  participation  in  global 
decisions that affect us all and directly impact strategic 
planning 
term. 
Coordinated,  transparent  and  harmonious  decision-
making  is  essential  for  achieving  tangible  results  that 
improve  the  living  conditions  and  situation  of  the 
world’s  citizens.  Our  country  deems  it  important  to 
promote  dialogue  in  order  to  foster  bridge-building 
among the various decision-making forums.  

We must be aware that without a healthy natural 
environment, all other development efforts will have a 
limited  effect.  In  that  context,  the  global  phenomenon 
of  climate  change  is  perhaps  the  most  urgent  and 
dramatic challenge currently facing humanity. It poses 
additional  challenges  to  development  and  forces  us  to 
urgently  consider  the  need  to  implement  measures  to 
adapt 
its  adverse  effects.  Such 
measures  require  changes  in  production  methods  and 
seriously  compromise  the  distribution  of  domestic 
resources. 

Achieving  sustainable  development  that  takes 
into  account  the  economic,  social  and  environmental 
dimensions 
long-term 
results  and  a  healthy  environment  for  present  and 
future  generations  as  well  as  sustained  economic 
growth. That  goal is  also a necessary precondition for 
reducing  disparities  between  the  developed  world  and 
the developing world, particularly in the quality of life, 
income 
development 
indicators. 

In  closing,  Uruguay  would  like  to  reaffirm  the 
imperative  necessity  of  renewed  political  commitment 
aimed  at  achieving  an  open  and  equitable  multilateral 
trade system based on clear rules that would permit all 
countries  to  benefit  from  the  potential  provided  by 
international  trade  as  the  engine  of  development. 
to  and  mitigate 
is  fundamental 
to  ensuring 
distribution 
and 
human 
10-55396 

7 

the  unanimous 
A/65/PV.23 

Hunger  eradication,  food  production  and  agricultural 
trade  are  closely  related  and  must  be  strengthened 
through a predictable multilateral system that provides 
guarantees  to  producers  and  ensures  food  availability 
to  the  most  vulnerable  sectors.  In  that  context,  the 
elimination  of  subsidies  and  other  non-tariff  barriers 
that  hinder  access  to  markets  is  essential,  as  is  a 
successful  conclusion  of  the  Doha  Round  based  on  a 
development perspective. 
The President (spoke in French): I give the floor 

to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jean-Marie  Kacou  Gervais, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs and African Integration of 
Côte d’Ivoire. 
Mr.  Kacou  Gervais  (Côte  d’Ivoire)  (spoke  in 

French): I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your 
brilliant  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  sixty-fifth 
session of the General Assembly. That election is a sign 
of 
recognition  of  your  personal 
commitment  to  promote  the  role  of  this  Organization 
and to defend its ideals. It is also the crowning moment 
in  a  talented  diplomatic  career  that  you  have  led  with 
skill  and  tact.  It  is  therefore  to  you  as  a  skilled 
diplomat that I would like to pay warm homage.  

to  your 
predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki, 
my  delegation’s  appreciation  for  the  quality  of  the 
work  he  undertook  and  the  results  achieved  under  his 
presidency.  Finally,  allow  me  to  pay  tribute  to  the 
Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  personal 
commitment  and  tireless  efforts  to  support  peace  and 
development  throughout  the  world.  Furthermore,  I 
wish to convey my deep gratitude to him as well as the 
gratitude  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Laurent  Gbagbo, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Côte  d’Ivoire,  as  well  as 
that of the people and Government of Côte d’Ivoire for 
his  commitment  to  reach  a  settlement  of  the  crisis  in 
Côte d’Ivoire.  

By proposing the theme of reaffirming the United 
Nations  central  role  in  global  governance  for  this 
session,  Mr.  President,  you  celebrate  the  primacy  of 
multilateralism  over  unilateralism  as  a  method  for 
managing  global  affairs  in  the  best  possible  manner. 
Moreover,  you  are  transforming  our  Organization  into 
the  forum  of  choice  for  dealing  with  issues  of  global 
concern. That vision is, without any doubt, in line with 
that of developing countries in general and my country, 
Côte d’Ivoire, in particular and can only take shape if 
the United Nations retains its credibility by adapting to 
is  also  my  pleasure 
to  express 
It 
it 
reform,  because  we  believe 
an international context that has considerably changed 
since  its  founding  in  1945.  This  requires  urgent  and 
thorough 
that  our 
Organization  has  resisted  the  widespread  changes  in 
the world that it was established to serve.  

Because  the  United  Nations  is  at  the  crossroads 
of  all  of  the  world’s  problems,  it  is  here  that  we  can 
fully  assess  what  has  happened  since  it  was  founded. 
This  is  the  appropriate  place  to  assess  the  progress 
achieved as well as the failings. It is also here that we 
can  envisage  solutions  to  problems  that  now  confront 
the  world.  Those  issues  include  poverty,  which  is  the 
source of all evils, and which remains an open wound 
on humanity, which continues to make progress to the 
point  where 
is  already  considering  human 
settlements on the moon. But unfortunately, at the same 
time,  humanity  is  forgetting  that  more  than  a  billion 
men  and  women  across  the  planet  Earth  suffer  from 
hunger.  Women’s  lives  are  lost  as  they  give  life. 
Millions  of  children  die  before  reaching  the  age  of  5, 
and  access  to  drinking  water  is  limited  in Africa. The 
AIDS  epidemic  and  the  malaria  epidemic  kill  more 
people  than  all  the  wars  combined.  If  the  world  is 
powerless,  the  United  Nations  must  be  adapted  to 
provide proper responses to those imbalances, because 
there are not two worlds, there is just one world, which 
is our common heritage. Managing that world must be 
done in a joint manner, and it must be shared equitably. 
The United Nations must demonstrate the example and 
show the path forward. 

regard,  my  country’s  position  has 
remained  unchanged.  For  Côte  d’Ivoire,  that  long-
sought reform must aim for balance in the main bodies 
of  the  United  Nations,  including  in  particular  a  larger 
Security  Council  and  improvement  in  its  working 
methods. That is why my delegation places much hope 
in  the  successful  outcome  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations 
the  General 
Assembly on reform of the Organization in general and 
the Security Council in particular. 

This session of the Assembly is taking place at a 
moment  when  the  global  economy  is  beginning  a 
fragile  recovery,  following  the  most  serious  economic 
crisis the world has faced since the Great Depression of 
the  1930s.  That  crisis  has  shown,  and  indeed  has 
exacerbated,  the  vulnerability  of  integrated  world 
economies,  ruined  development  efforts  and  threatened 
collective security. Many countries, mainly developing 
countries,  are  continuing  to  suffer  the  effects  of  the 
launched  by 
that  were 
that 
In 
8 

10-55396 
My 
delegation 
therefore 
on 


crisis  through  a  drop  in  the  purchasing  power  of  their 
people,  the  growing  shortage  of  official  development 
assistance, falling foreign direct investment and growth 
in unemployment.  

If, as the experts tell us, the global economy has 
begun to recover this year, it nevertheless continues to 
be fragile, with a growth rate of a mere 2.2 per cent. In 
such  a  situation,  we  must  seek,  in  solidarity  and  by 
combining  our  efforts,  the  most  appropriate  solutions 
to  consolidate  that  tendency  to  growth.  Meeting  that 
fundamental  requirement  will  allow  us  to  establish 
throughout  the  world  societies  that  are  safer,  more 
equitable, more inclusive and more stable.  

the 
calls 
industrialized  countries  to  make  a  reality  of  their 
commitments  with  regard  to  developing  countries, 
especially  in  terms  of  official  development  assistance, 
if the developing countries are to reach the Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015. 

Côte  d’Ivoire  also  hopes  to  see  the  diligent 
implementation  of  the  conclusions  of  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on 
the  World  Financial  and 
Economic  Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on  Development, 
which  was  held  here  from  24  to  26  June  2009, 
particularly those calling for reform and strengthening 
of  the  financial  and  economic  system  and  of  the 
international  financial  architecture  in  order  to  adapt 
them to current difficulties.  
that 
that reform should not only allow developing countries 
in  general  and  those  of  Africa  in  particular  to  have 
more adequate representation in international financial 
institutions,  but  should  also  promote  economic  and 
financial policies that are better adapted to their needs.  

Along  those  lines,  I  would  like  to  pay  tribute  to 
the  summit  of  the  Group  of  Eight  (G-8)  held  in  June 
2010 in Muskoka, Canada, which reaffirmed, inter alia, 
the  commitments  of  the  G-8  with  regard  to  official 
development  assistance  and  the  guarantee  of  aid 
effectiveness. It called for the effective mobilization of 
all public and private resources for the achievement of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
also 
emphasized  the  urgent  need  for  collective  action  to 
achieve 
in 
maternal health and reduction of infant mortality.  

On that specific  point, my delegation would like 
to  welcome  the  creation  within  the  United  Nations 
system  of  UN  Women,  a  special  body  responsible  for 
gender  issues  and  the  advancement  of  women.  That 
the  MDGs,  particularly 
It  also  desires 
improvement 
It 
A/65/PV.23
new  body  and  the  establishment  of  a  trust  fund  to 
support  initiatives  for  women  is  a  real  cause  for  hope 
for  developing  countries,  particularly  those  in  Africa, 
in  their  struggle  against  poverty,  discrimination  and 
social inequalities.  
In  that  connection,  I  wish  to 
warmly  congratulate  Ms.  Michelle  Bachelet  on  her 
appointment to head UN Women and assure her of the 
full  cooperation  of  the  authorities  of  Côte  d’Ivoire  in 
fulfilling her mandate. 

Food  insecurity,  which  now  affects  more  than  
1  billion  people,  mainly  in  developing  countries,  is  a 
major  and  immediate  obstacle  to  development  and  a 
threat to world peace and security.  

In the face of that situation, for which the entire 
international  community  is  responsible,  we  need  to 
find innovative, effective and lasting solutions in terms 
of  financing  for  agriculture.  My  delegation  welcomes 
the  efforts  being  made  by  the  World  Bank,  regional 
development  banks  and  the  specialized  funds  and 
agencies  of  the  United  Nations  for  financing  the 
agricultural sector. Similarly, it welcomes the launching 
in 2009 of the L’Aquila Food Security Initiative, which 
allowed  the  G-8  to  mobilize  $22  billion  to  finance 
agriculture  in  developing  countries  over  a  period  of 
three years. 

The  delegation  of  Côte  d’Ivoire  welcomes, 
finally,  the  reform  under  way  of  the  Committee  on 
World  Food  Security  and  the  launching  of  the  Global 
Agriculture and Food Security Programme.  

Similarly,  I  would  like  to  recall  the  proposals 
made  by  President  Laurent  Gbagbo,  at  the  meeting  of 
the Group of 77 and China that was held in June 2008 
at  Yamoussoukro, 
to  set  up  a  mutual  support 
mechanism  for  providing  food  products  to  importing 
countries  by  producing  countries  while  aiming  to 
create  in  the  United  Nations  a  stabilization  fund  for 
food products. 

Climate  change  is  rightly  seen  as  a  global 
problem  and  today  represents  a  serious  threat  to 
humankind’s  equilibrium.  It  therefore  requires  clear 
and  committed  responses  at  the  international  level. 
Thus it is important that we rapidly find solutions that 
can  ensure  that  future  generations  will  have  a  world 
that  is  better  balanced  and  guarantees  a  better  future 
for humankind. 

welcomes 
In  that  regard,  the  delegation  of  Côte  d’Ivoire 
the  United 
the  significant  progress  of 
10-55396 

9 

forests,  and 
A/65/PV.23 

Nations Conference on Climate Change, held from 7 to 
18  December  2009  in  Copenhagen.  Although  the 
principle  of  a  legally  binding  accord  to  succeed  the 
Kyoto  Protocol  after  2012  was  not  reached,  the  hopes 
promoted  by  that  meeting  largely  justified  its  being 
held.  Moreover,  the  significant  progress  achieved 
confirms us in that opinion. 

Among  the  advances  made  we  would  mention, 
inter alia, the consensus on the goals for stabilizing the 
temperature rise at 2°C, the creation of a mechanism to 
mobilize  financial  resources  for  the  absorption  of 
greenhouse  gas  emissions  by 
the 
commitment  of  developed  countries 
to  provide  
$30  billion  for  the  period  2010  to  2012,  and  $100 
billion  as  of  2020  for  measures  to  adapt  to  climate 
change in developing countries.  

The  diligent  implementation  of  those  measures 
should  allow  vulnerable  States  such  as  my  own  to 
establish  plans  to  combat  climate  change,  which  is 
becoming increasingly evident throughout the world in 
an  upsurge  in  natural  disasters  related  to  drought, 
flooding and coastal erosion. The effects of all of those 
events  on  the  health  of  populations  and  on  the 
availability of land  and potable water  compromise the 
economic  and  social  development  of  many  States  that 
have  already  been  weakened  by  poverty  and 
pandemics.  The  United  Nations,  in  line  with  its 
Charter, has the duty to carry out the negotiations that 
were begun in Copenhagen and must work resolutely to 
that end. 

Respect  for  human  rights  is  a  concern  for  my 
country,  which  has  endorsed  the  set  of  international 
instruments  in  that  regard.  Though  it  was  affected  by 
the socio-political  crisis, the human rights situation in 
my country is today on a path to normalization, thanks 
especially 
the  valuable  help  of  national  and 
international  non-governmental organizations involved 
in  that  area.  The  international  community  could  see 
that on 3 December 2009 in Geneva, when the Working 
Group  on  the  universal  periodic  review  took  up  Côte 
d’Ivoire. That review led to the adoption on 18 March 
2010  of  a  final  report  that  earned  my  country  the 
support  and  encouragement  of  the  States  members  of 
the Human Rights Council for our stated will to pursue 
efforts to improve human rights. 

The  persistence  of  numerous  armed  conflicts 
around  the  world  continues  to  threaten  international 
peace and security. Once again, the role of the United 
to 
to  move 
Nations is vital to resolving those conflicts, which are 
hindering  the  harmonious  development  of  the  world. 
That is particularly true in Africa, a region that, shaken 
by  hotbeds  of  tension,  cannot  ensure  its  peaceful 
economic and social development, despite its enormous 
potential.  

In that  regard, allow me to stress how happy we 
are that the peace so much hoped for is now a reality in 
Côte  d’Ivoire,  following  the  implementation  of  the 
Ouagadougou  Political  Agreement,  which  will  permit 
the organization of free, transparent and open elections. 
The  first  round  of  presidential  elections  has  been  set 
for  31  October  2010.  Besides  setting  that  date,  the 
signing  on  9  September  2010  of  a  presidential  decree 
finalizing  the  ballot  list  allows  for  the  distribution  of 
national  identity  and  voting  cards  to  the  5,725,720 
Ivorians who are on the list that has been validated by 
the Independent Electoral Commission and the Special 
Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  of  the  United 
Nations.  

Those signs of progress in the peace process and 
the  proven  determination  of  political  players  and  the 
Ivorian  people 
towards  free,  open  and 
transparent  elections  allow  us 
to  envisage,  with 
optimism,  the  holding  of  the  presidential  election  on 
the appointed date and thus of Côte d’Ivoire emerging 
from its crisis. 

On that hopeful note, I would like to conclude by 
recalling  that  the  various  crises  of  security,  food, 
energy  and  finances,  compounded  by  the  threat  of 
climate change, demonstrate the extent to which in the 
existence, balance and future development of humanity 
are now threatened more than ever. In that context the 
United  Nations  has  a  crucial 
in 
strengthening indispensable international solidarity and 
in  seeking  effective,  collective  and  appropriate 
solutions to those crises and challenges.  

However, to be fully engaged with its time and to 
remain  true  to  the  objectives  of  its  founding  65  years 
ago,  the  United  Nations  must  adapt  to  the  realities  of 
the  contemporary  world  if  it  wants  to  remain  the 
guarantor of international peace and security and of the 
world’s  socio-economic  development. To  that  end,  we 
must  strengthen  the  foundations  of  this  Organization 
and — as the theme of this session invites us to do — 
reaffirm  its  central  role  in  global  governance.  Côte 
d’Ivoire  therefore  calls  for  international  solidarity  so 
that our common Organization may find the necessary 
to  play 
role 
10 

10-55396 
to  extend 


solutions to offer to coming generations the hope of a 
fruitful and peaceful future. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Seyoum  Mesfin,  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Federal Democratic Republic 
of Ethiopia. 
Mr.  Mesfin  (Ethiopia):  Allow  me,  Sir,  at  the 

outset, 
to  you  my  delegation’s  warm 
congratulations  on  your  election  to  the  presidency  of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session. I would 
like  to  assure  you  of  my  delegation’s  full  cooperation 
in  the  discharge  of  your  high  responsibilities.  My 
delegation would like to register our appreciation to the 
outgoing  President,  Mr.  Ali  Treki,  for  his  able 
leadership  during  the  sixty-fourth  session.  We  would 
also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our 
appreciation  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon,  for 
his tireless efforts to ensure that the Organization lives 
up to the purposes and principles set out in its Charter.  

Allow  me  to  begin  my  statement  today  by 
reviewing  some  salient  aspects  of  the  political  and 
economic transformation in Ethiopia.  

Such a review should of necessity begin with the 
democratization  process  in  Ethiopia,  which  is  now 
almost  completing  its  second  decade.  In  the  political 
transformation  in  Ethiopia  over  the  past  two  decades, 
our  single-minded 
focus  has  been  on  building 
institutions  of  democracy,  good  governance  and  the 
rule  of  law. The  essence  of  all  our  endeavours  in  that 
regard has been the devolution of power to the people. 
Our  federal  democratic  order,  built  on  the  basis  of 
unity  in  diversity,  has  laid  the  foundation  for  lasting 
peace  and  security.  The  democratization  process  that 
Ethiopia has embarked on is irreversible and is taking 
deep  root  at  the  level  of  the  State  and  the  society  at 
large. 

Still, a democratization process in any country is 
not an end in itself. The whole purpose is to create an 
environment  conducive  to  bringing  about  a  better  life 
for  the  people.  That  inevitably  leads  me  to  our 
economic  policy  and  strategy.  Today  in  our  country 
accelerated  development  is  in  full  swing,  while  a 
democratic  culture  and  its  institutional  underpinnings 
are developing at the grass-roots level.  

The  successful  results  achieved  during  the  last 
seven  years  and  the  challenges  and  experience  gained 
in  the  process  of  implementing  the  previous  five-year 
A/65/PV.23
in 
celebrate, 
just 
last  week,  was 
together  with 
the  economic  and  social  goals 
economic  plan  have  helped  in  the  formulation  of  the 
next five-year plan — officially called the Growth and 
Transformation Plan — covering the period of 2011 to 
2015. The objective of that plan is to lay the necessary 
basis for nation-building by creating and strengthening 
a  stable,  democratic,  developmental  State  and  to 
achieve 
the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).  

At the end of the five-year period the net result of 
all  our  efforts  will  be  that  poverty  in  our  country  has 
been  made  history. We  are  confident  that  by  that  time 
our  people  will 
the 
international  community,  the  end  of  an  era  of  food 
insecurity  and  dependency  on  food  aid.  That  historic 
event  will  give  us  an  opportunity  to  extend  our  deep 
gratitude  to  all  our  partners for  their  assistance  in  our 
difficult  times.  We  pledge  to  redouble  our  efforts  and 
utilize  their  assistance  for  rapid  development  of  our 
country that will extricate us from food insecurity once 
and for all. 

As  regards  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  of  the  sixty-fifth 
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  held  here  in  New 
York 
timely.  The  outcome 
document of that forum (resolution 65/1) should not be 
just an appeal but a new pact, binding on stakeholders 
with respect to renewed commitment to ensure that the 
collective  promises  made  at  the  dawn  of  the  new 
millennium  are  kept.  The  action  agenda  designed  to 
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  by  2015 
must 
and 
accountability of all stakeholders.  
We in Ethiopia have made substantial progress on 

all 
fronts 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals. We have taken full charge of our 
destiny,  devised  our  own  strategy  and  maximized  the 
mobilization  of  our  domestic  resources  to  achieve  the 
MDGs. The results so far have been very encouraging. 
Over the past seven years, the Ethiopian economy has 
performed  well,  having  achieved  an  annual  average 
growth  rate  of  11.6  per  cent.  The  robust  economic 
growth  we  have  achieved  has  created  the  basis  for 
similarly robust growth in social indicators, and hence 
on progress in achieving the Millennium Development 
Goals. 

Assessing the state of the MDGs today would not 
be  complete  without  some  reflections  on  Africa  from 
the  perspective  of  economic  and  social  development 
towards 
achieving 
ensure 
the  mutual 
responsibility 
10-55396 

11 

A/65/PV.23 

and its organic link to the MDGs. In that connection, I 
can  do  no  better  than  to  refer  to  what  Mr.  Zoellick, 
President  of  the  World  Bank,  said  at  the  High-level 
Plenary  Meeting  on  the  MDGs  (see  A/65/PV.3).  The 
most important point he made was that  he believed in 
Africa  and  that Africa  can  be  a  global  pole  of  growth 
and  attract  investment  on African  terms.  That  is  what 
we  have  been  saying  all  along.  He  also  said  that  one 
needs to work with developing countries as clients, not 
as  development  models  from  textbooks,  and  to  help 
them  to  solve  problems,  not  to  test  theories.  We  in 
Africa  know  what  we  can  do;  we  want  to  know  what 
the  rest  of  the  world  will  do  to  help  us  achieve  our 
goals. 

The  issue  of  climate  change  remains  among  the 
most critical challenges facing humankind today. Much 
has been said, from Rio to Kyoto to Copenhagen. What 
has been promised has thus far resulted in far less than 
the urgency of the matter merits. We believe that time 
is  running  out,  and  we  are  concerned  that  national 
agendas  of  zero-sum  preferences  are  overshadowing 
the  real  urgency  of  addressing  the  matter  in  an 
accelerated  and  coordinated  manner.  The  upcoming 
Cancún meeting on climate change should be different 
from its predecessors. It should come up with a legally 
binding commitment, coupled with the political will, to 
allocate  the  necessary  resources  for  adaptation  and 
mitigation  efforts,  especially  for  the  most  vulnerable 
and exposed countries. 

On  energy  and  development,  it  has  always  been 
self-evident  that  access  to  energy  is  key  to  fighting 
poverty.  It  is  central  to  development.  Yet,  1.4  billion 
people worldwide are without electricity, 80 per cent of 
whom live in rural areas. Given the urgency of this dire 
situation, we fully support the goal of universal energy 
access by 2030, as set by the United Nations. 
As  the  prevalence  of  conflicts  around  the  world 

clearly 
is  of 
paramount importance to complement the efforts of the 
United  Nations  in  the  area  of  peace  and  security.  In 
that  regard,  Ethiopia,  as  a  founding  Member  of  the 
United  Nations,  has  always  been  at  the  forefront  in 
discharging its responsibilities in the area of peace and 
security.  Since  the  early  1950s,  Ethiopia  has  been  an 
active  participant  in  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations.  At  the  moment,  Ethiopia  is  among  the 
major  troop-contributing  countries  to  United  Nations 
peacekeeping missions. 
international  cooperation 
indicates, 
Among 
the  challenges 
that 
the 
The 
Council 
of  Ministers 

international 
community  faces  in  the  area  of  peace  and  security  is 
the scourge of terrorism. Like many other countries, we 
have  been  at  the  receiving  end  of  this  problem.  We 
believe that unreserved international cooperation is the 
only  viable  way  to  combat  terrorism.  Ethiopia  will 
continue to do its level best in that regard. 

Any  discussion  of  peace  and  security  on  the 
international  scene  today  will  inevitably  have  to  take 
up the situation in the Horn of Africa. It is regrettable 
that we still cannot talk about the situation in Somalia 
with a great deal of optimism. On one hand, the threat 
of  extremism  continues  unabated  in  Somalia,  as  does 
the  danger  posed  by  international  terrorist  networks 
and  their  sponsors  to  Somalia,  and  beyond.  On  the 
other  hand,  it  is  clear  that  there  is  little  chance  for 
making progress in Somalia until there is harmony and 
greater  seriousness  of  purpose  at  the  highest  level 
within the Transitional Federal Institutions of Somalia. 

the 
Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), 
which  met  here  in  New  York  on  22  September 
preceding  the  mini-summit  on  Somalia  convened  by 
the  Secretary-General  on  23  September,  expressed  its 
regret  with  regard  to  differences  within  the  leadership 
of the Transitional Federal Government. It called upon 
them to strengthen their cohesion and work together to 
address  the  multiple  challenges  facing  the  country. 
Furthermore,  the  Council  of  Ministers  reaffirmed  the 
Djibouti  process  as  the  sole  basis  for  peace  and 
reconciliation in Somalia, expressed concern about the 
proliferation  of 
the  United 
Nations  and  other  stakeholders  to  engage  within  the 
region and with IGAD. 

With  regard  to  the  situation  in  the  Sudan, 
Ethiopia  is  of  the  firm  view  that  conceivably  there  is 
no other conflict on the continent today comparable to 
that of the Sudan. Hence, we believe that success in the 
Sudan  will  mean  significant  success  for  Africa  as  a 
whole. By the same token, failure may entail a serious 
catastrophe  for Africa. That  is  why  the African  Union 
has  given  its  unreserved  attention  to  the  issue,  as 
illustrated 
the  High-Level 
Implementation  Panel  led  by  former  President  Thabo 
Mbeki.  We  would  like  to  express  our  appreciation  to 
the  Secretary-General  for  holding  a  timely  high-level 
meeting  on  the  Sudan  here  on  24  September.  The 
outcome of the meeting has been encouraging. 
initiatives  and  urged 
effort  of 
of 
by 
the 
12 

10-55396 
the 
terms  of 
that, 
to  recognize 
irrespective  of 
the  outcome  of 
in  conformity  with 



It  goes  without  saying  that  the  referendums  in 
Southern Sudan and Abyei should be held on time and 
strictly 
the 
Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement.  However,  we 
believe 
the 
referendums  and  without  in  any  way  detracting  from 
the historic significance of that date, the parties should 
not  fix  their  minds  solely  on  9  January  2011.  The 
parties  ought 
that  here  are  several 
commonalities, interests, bonds and values between the 
peoples  of  the  Sudan,  north  and  south,  that  transcend 
the decision to be taken in January 2011. That is why it 
is  of  paramount  importance  that  negotiations  on  post-
referendum  issues  should  be  conducted  in  earnest  and 
with the seriousness of purpose that the issues deserve. 

When  we  talk  of  security  in  the  Horn  of Africa 
region  and  the  southern  Red  Sea,  we  cannot  avoid 
raising  our  concern  once  again  about  the  destructive 
role  that  the  Government  of  Eritrea  has  continued  to 
play since independence. We in the IGAD region have 
time and time again warned the United Nations, as well 
as  the  international  community,  that  the  Eritrean 
regime  is  the  principal  destabilizer  in  our  subregion, 
with  its  utter  contempt  for  international  law  and  the 
norms of international behaviour.  

It  is  indeed  regrettable  that  the  Security  Council 
is  not  taking  the  necessary  steps  to  compel  Eritrea  to 
live  up  to  what  is  expected  of  it  under  Council 
resolution  1907  (2009).  Despite  the  sanctions,  Eritrea 
is  still  the  principal  architect  of  the  complicated 
situation  in  Somalia,  through  its  training,  arming  and 
nurturing  of  extremist  elements  such  as  Al-Shabaab 
and  Hizb  al-Islam,  who  are  causing  havoc  in  that 
country today.  

That  reprehensible  conduct  on  the  part  of  the 
regime  has  been  by  no  means  isolated  or  confined  to 
our  subregion.  On  the  contrary,  it  has  been  standard 
behaviour  for  the  Eritrean  regime,  extending  far 
beyond  the  subregion,  to  other  parts  of  the  continent 
and sometimes even outside it. 

Consistent  with  its  innate  character,  the  regime 
committed acts of aggression against practically all its 
neighbours  in  the  space  of  only  a  few  years  after  its 
independence.  That  is  unprecedented  for  any  newly 
independent  State,  giving  Eritrea 
the  dubious 
distinction  of  being  an  international  pariah  in  the 
family  of  nations.  Therefore,  if  we  are  to  achieve  a 
breakthrough  in Somalia, the time is long overdue for 
A/65/PV.23
the Security Council to take resolute action and see to 
it that its decisions are complied with. 


Since its founding more than six decades ago, the 
United  Nations,  as  the  principal  global  player  on  the 
international  scene  with  multifarious  responsibilities, 
has, under the circumstances, lived up to the vision set 
for  it  in  the  Charter.  There  is  no  gainsaying  the  fact 
that if the United Nations did not exist, we would have 
had  to  create  it.  It  is  an  indispensable  Organization, 
particularly  for  us  in  the  developing  world.  However, 
while underscoring its importance, we should not lose 
sight  of  the  need  for  its  reform,  which  is  an  ongoing 
process. That is how we can ensure the Organization’s 
viability.  Ethiopia  will  always  be  ready  to  give 
whatever support is necessary to that end.  

When  we  talk  of  the  United  Nations  as  a  global 
actor,  the  importance  of  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  our  continental  organization,  the 
African  Union,  need  hardly  be  emphasized.  Of 
particular  significance  is  the  ongoing  cooperation  and 
consultation  between  the  United  Nations  Security 
Council  and  the  African  Union  Peace  and  Security 
Council, in line with the provisions of Chapter VIII of 
the Charter of the United Nations. We should continue 
that  cooperation,  and  Ethiopia  will  do  whatever  is 
necessary in that regard. 

In  conclusion,  let  me  reiterate,  as  a  founding 
Member, Ethiopia’s enduring commitment to the ideals 
of our Organization and the fulfilment of its objectives, 
as  set  out  in  the  Charter,  which  remains  a  living 
document  and  a  source  of 
the 
international community. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor to His Excellency Mr. Héctor Lacognata, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Paraguay. 
Mr.  Lacognata  (Paraguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Mr.  President,  let  me  first  convey  on  my  own  behalf 
and on behalf of the Republic of Paraguay our wishes 
for  every  success  in  your  sensitive  and  important 
function  at  the  helm  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fifth  session.  I  would  also  like  to  express  my 
delegation’s  recognition  of  Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki, 
President  of  the Assembly  at  the  sixty-fourth  session, 
for the significant achievements made. 

its 
transition,  begun  21  years  ago,  with  the  transfer  of 
Paraguayan  democracy  has 
inspiration 
completed 
for 
10-55396 

13 
comes 
to 
this 
general 
Paraguay 
A/65/PV.23 

power  from  one  political  force  to  another  in  recent 
elections  held  under  international  observation.  In  that 
way  we  have  consolidated  a  process  of  strengthening 
public freedoms, thereby affirming that those freedoms 
are fully guaranteed in my country today. 

debate 
reaffirming  its  importance  and  calling  for  progress  in 
strengthening  the  United  Nations  as  the  body  capable 
of representing the interests of all Member States in the 
urgent  quest  for  a  fairer,  more  united  and  equitable 
world, guaranteed by the full force of international law.  

We are very pleased that some great Powers have 
returned to the path of multilateralism, for some of the 
problems  that  afflict  mankind  can  be  resolved  only 
with  the  involvement  of  every  State.  It  has  been 
demonstrated  again  that  in  the  search  for  a  better 
civilization, the solution has not, cannot and will never 
be  found  by  a  handful  of  nations.  Thus  the  recent 
financial  crisis  can  be  resolved  satisfactorily  only 
through measures that are universal and taken with the 
agreement  of  the  great  majority.  Once  again,  it  is  the 
General  Assembly  that  will  have  to  make  its  guiding 
voice heard on this issue. 

We  also  applaud  the  Secretary-General’s  timely 
decision  to  hold  the  High-level  Meeting  for  review  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  The 
Republic of Paraguay believes that while achievements 
have  been  made  with  regard  to  the  MDGs,  we  cannot 
avoid  the  fact  that  there  are  still  inequalities  all  over 
the  world  and  millions  continue  to  live  in  abject 
poverty. The situation has been exacerbated by sudden 
increases  in  food  prices  and  the  consequences  of 
climate change. 

In Paraguay we are betting on the globalization of 
democracy with social development. We are betting on 
the  universalization  of  security  based  on  respect  for 
human  rights  as  an  unwavering  commitment  and  on 
dignifying  human  life.  In  that  spirit  we  celebrate  the 
recent designation of a Paraguayan citizen as a member 
of  the  Committee  on  the  Elimination  of All  Forms  of 
Discrimination  against  Women.  We  appreciate  the 
support  she  received,  which  further  strengthens  our 
commitment to ensuring the inclusion of women in all 
areas of public life.  

regional 
community  in  the  context  of  a  global  union  that  in 
solidarity and together devotes its efforts to eradicating 
hunger  and  abject  poverty,  cooperating  effectively  to 
to  create  a 
We  would 
thus 
like 

the 
to  prioritize 
The  Republic  of  Paraguay 
promote the participation of all in building sustainable 
prosperity through quality education and the provision 
of a social protection system that excludes no one. 
its 

reiterates 
commitment 
implementation  of 
programmes  for  economic  development  with  social 
justice.  The  national  Government  is  approaching  with 
dedication  the  development  and  implementation  of 
social  policies  to  address  needs  in  this  area,  with 
special  emphasis  on  the  most  vulnerable  and  most 
needy  of  our  population.  That  effort  at  the  national 
level  also  requires  international  solidarity,  enhanced 
through 
the  processes  of  regional  and  sovereign 
integration  of  the  people,  as  well  as  through  a  new 
international  financial  architecture  whose  institutions 
contribute to job creation and to fairer, more equitable 
trade conditions among the world’s nations. 

We note with great concern that many citizens of 
our countries have had to migrate to other parts of the 
world,  particularly  Europe  and  North  America,  in 
search of new opportunities for happiness and personal 
fulfilment. We take this occasion to show our solidarity 
with the peoples who at this moment are suffering from 
the  consequences  of  mistaken  discriminatory  and 
violent immigration policies, particularly as applied by 
countries of the so-called first world.  

Migration  policy  is  not  a  domestic  issue  but 
rather a question that must respect international human 
rights  norms  and  standards.  Therefore  we  call  on  all 
countries  that  receive  migrants  to  deal  in  a  spirit  of 
humanitarianism, fraternity and hospitality with all our 
fellow citizens who today seek to share in the right to 
work  and  to  a  life  of  dignity  far  from  their  respective 
countries. We  propose  a  deepening  of  dialogue  on  the 
issue  in  international  forums  to  highlight  the  human 
dimension  of  migration  processes  and  find  a  just  and 
equitable solution to that reality of globalization. 

Full  employment  and  decent  work  are  universal 
goals,  and  to  reach  them  requires  focusing  national 
efforts  and  improving  international  cooperation  to 
address  macroeconomic  and  trade  issues  involved  in 
the solution to that problem. Bilateral and multilateral 
institutions for development assistance should insist on 
employment  taking  a  place  of  prominence  in  their 
policy decisions and implementation.  

Disarmament, non-proliferation and arms control 
are  not  only  essential  factors  to  ensure  international 
peace and security, but they also guarantee sustainable 
14 

10-55396 
among 


economic  and  social  development  for 
the  most 
vulnerable countries. Only through a sound multilateral 
system  with  strict  adherence  to  international  law  and 
respect  for  the  sovereignty  and  self-determination  of 
peoples can we guarantee our mutual security.  

In  that  vein,  we  condemn  coercive  economic 
measures  that  prevent  countries  from  exercising  their 
sovereign right to choose their own political, economic 
and social systems. We reject the unilateral application 
of  measures  against  the  Republic  of  Cuba,  and  we 
reiterate  our  support  for 
the  General  Assembly 
resolutions to put an end to the economic, commercial 
and  financial  blockade  against 
that  nation.  The 
blockade  against  Cuba  undermines  the  fundamental 
norms of international law, the principles of sovereign 
equality 
non-intervention,  
non-interference  in  domestic  affairs,  freedom  of  trade 
and international navigation and the self-determination 
of peoples, as enshrined in instruments of international 
law.  

We  also  demand  that  the  Government  of  the 
United  States  adopt  necessary  measures  to  put  an  end 
to the irregular situation of five Cuban citizens who are 
currently deprived of their liberty as they sit in United 
States  jails  and  who  have  denounced  the  violation  of 
their human rights. 

its 
commitment to international peace and security. In that 
context  we  reaffirm  our  political  will  to  increase  our 
contribution to peacekeeping missions and to continue 
our efforts to train and equip forces in accordance with 
the 
to 
progressively 
those 
operations. 
My country is aware of the serious  and complex 

threats  of  climate  change  around  the  world.  We  have 
watched  with  concern  the  growing  negative  effects  of 
irregular  climate  phenomena 
that  produce  drastic 
consequences  that  contribute  to  increased  poverty  and 
displacement  of  persons,  among  other  irreparable 
effects  that  must  be  urgently  and  uncompromisingly 
addressed.  We  subscribe  to  the  Declaration  of  the 
Cochabamba summit on climate change and call for an 
urgent, coordinated and responsible global response to 
find  ways  to  mitigate,  lessen  and  reverse  the  tragic, 
devastating consequences of climate change. Likewise, 
we proclaim the sovereign rights of peoples over their 
natural resources, interpreted in the broadest sense.  
The  Republic  of  Paraguay 
increase  our  participation 
this  Organization, 
standards  of 
reiterates 
States, 
so  as 
in 
A/65/PV.23
that 
to  Paraguay’s 

A  new  international  financial  architecture  is 
needed,  one  that  seeks  a  system  of  fair  trade  and 
efficient  regulation  mechanisms.  We  also  need  new 
paradigms for integration that attack the root causes of 
obstacles  to  integration,  such  as  inequitable  exchange 
rates  and  the  unequal  conditions  of  international 
relations,  the  weight  of  unpayable  debt  and  the 
imposition  of  structural  changes  that  undermine  the 
bases  of  social  and  political  assistance.  We  are 
convinced 
the  United  Nations,  as  a  global 
institution,  should  play  a  central  role  to  guarantee  the 
success  of  our  efforts  to  achieve  better  international 
coordination  and  coherence  in  the  economic  and 
financial spheres.  
The  issue  of  landlocked  developing  countries  is 

foreign  policy.  The 
fundamental 
asymmetries  and  disadvantages  created  by  and  still 
being  created  by  that  geographical  situation  can  be 
offset  only  to  the  extent  that  they  are  internationally 
recognized  and  that  there  be  special,  individualized 
treatment  for  such  countries  on  the  part  of  developed 
economies  on  their  integration  into  the  globalized 
world.  

It  is  essential  that  the  United  Nations  implement 
the  needed  reforms  with  the  goal  of  adapting  its 
structure  to  the  current  needs  of  global  society.  With 
that  desire  for  evolution,  the  Republic  of  Paraguay 
supports  the  process  of  reform  of  the  Organization  so 
as to strengthen the General Assembly and recover the 
functions  conferred  on  it  by  the  Charter,  as  the  most 
representative organ of the Organization.  
Paraguay  has  also  been  watching  with  great 

interest 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  about  equitable  representation  on  and 
increasing the membership of the Security Council and 
other  related  issues.  We  advocate  full  adherence  to 
multilateralism,  the  sovereign  equality  of  States  and 
inviolable respect for the rule of law. Accordingly, we 
need  a  Security  Council  that  is  more  democratic,  and 
thus its expansion cannot be put off in order to make it 
more equitable and inclusive. 

As  a  contribution  from  Paraguay  to  promoting 
respect  and  fraternity  —  values  that  strengthen  any 
organization made up of individuals and nations — we 
have proposed to share with the world our tradition of 
celebrating  friendship.  To  that  end,  Paraguay  has 
presented to the United Nations a proposal to proclaim 
rounds  of 
recent 
the 
10-55396 

15 

A/65/PV.23 

30  July  as  World  Friendship  Day,  in  order  to  renew 
appreciation and recognition among our peoples.  

Sixty-five years ago we said, “We the peoples of 
the  United  Nations”,  and  Paraguay  was  among  them. 
Hence we reaffirm each and every precept enshrined in 
the remarkable Preamble to our Charter. We will be at 
the  side  of  all,  because  we  believe  in  the  equality  of 
nations 
large  and  small,  which  will  allow  us 
progressively  to  improve  the  conditions  under  which 
justice  can  be  maintained  and  thereby  better  the 
standards  of  life  in  larger  freedom.  That  is  our 
mandate. We are committed to fulfil it.  
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Kasit  Piromya,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Kingdom of Thailand. 
Mr. Piromya (Thailand): Please allow me, Sir, to 

extend  to  you,  on  behalf  of  the  delegation  of  the 
Kingdom of Thailand, our wholehearted congratulations 
on  your  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-fifth session. You can rest assured 
of my delegation’s full support and cooperation. 

We  live  in  a  world  of  divides.  Although  the 
predominantly  ideological  divide  of  the  Cold War  has 
ended, new divides have come to the fore — politico-
security,  socio-economic,  digital  or  even  based  on 
beliefs.  Such  divides  present  challenges  to  peace, 
security,  prosperity  and  human  dignity.  Overcoming 
them  requires  that  nations  work  together  as  one; 
overcoming them requires a United Nations. 

international 
cooperation depends upon the strength and willingness 
of  individual  nations  themselves.  Thailand  is  such  a 
nation,  willing 
cooperate  with 
international  partners  to  help  bridge  such  divides  and 
help the world cross into a better future. 

Of  course,  we  are  under  no  illusions  about 
Thailand’s  own  difficulties  and  our  own  current 
divides.  But  history  has  shown  that  Thailand  is  a 
resilient  country,  and 
its  people  are  capable  of 
overcoming  whatever  challenges  are  thrown  before 
them.  Thailand  remains  a  functioning  democracy,  but 
we  are  a  relatively  young  one.  Like  many  other 
democracies,  ours  will  develop  and  mature  with  time. 
The Thai  Government  is  committed  to  that  and  to  the 
principles  of  democracy, 
the  practice  of  good 
governance and respect for human rights. 
the  effectiveness  of  such 
ready 
But 
and 
to 
the 
looking 
tragic  events  earlier 

Have no doubt that our Government is resolutely 
working to heal the political and social divisions in my 
country.  We  are  working  to  address  any  legitimate 
socio-economic  grievances,  with  a  view  to  bringing 
back national unity and confidence. We have launched 
a  national  reconciliation  plan  and  set  up  independent 
committees,  led  by  eminent  persons  with  the  utmost 
integrity, to propose ways to reform the country and its 
democratic  institutions.  We  will  bridge  our  country’s 
divide. 

Human  rights  remain  the  cornerstone  of  the 
Government’s  policy.  We  are 
into  any 
wrongdoings  in  the  past  and  will  ensure  that  they  do 
not recur and that justice is done. To that end, we have 
set up an independent fact-finding commission to look 
into 
this  year.  Other 
independent  organs,  such  as  our  human 
rights 
commission,  also  play  a  key  and  active  role  in 
safeguarding human rights. 

The Thai  Government  well  recognizes  that  some 
political  grievances  mainly  arise  from  the  economic 
disparities  in  our  society.  That  is  a  serious  issue,  and 
the  Government  is  working  to  bridge  economic  and 
social gaps. We are creating social safety nets through 
our universal health-care schemes and by providing 15 
years  of  free  education,  training  programmes  for  the 
unemployed  and  support  for 
low-income  earners, 
farmers,  the  elderly  and  people  with  disabilities.  Our 
stimulus  packages  will  benefit  not  only  the  overall 
economy  but  especially  those  who  are  economically 
and socially disadvantaged and disenfranchised. 

Despite  our  troubles,  the  Thai  economy  remains 
robust, as it and our exports continue to grow steadily. 
However,  we  are  not  complacent,  as  much  remains  to 
be done. We need to better spread economic and social 
well-being and vitality throughout Thailand, which will 
also contribute to the reconciliation, trust and stability 
of  the  country.  To  that  end,  we  seek  to  strengthen 
Thailand’s  creative  economy  by  utilizing  our  rich 
cultural  and  historical  heritage  and  the  creativity  of 
both  urban  and  rural Thais  to  add  more  value  to Thai 
products  and  services,  so  that  our  productivity  and 
competitiveness  are  enhanced  and  our  wealth  more 
widely spread. 

I think we have proven to the world the strength 
of  our  national  character  and  the  resilience  of  our 
nation.  Despite  the  tragic  incidents,  Thailand  has 
continued to move forward, not merely for the benefit 
16 

10-55396 
integration 
in 
should  be  enhanced  and 


of  the  country  but  also  for  that  of  the  international 
community. It is evident that we remain an active and 
responsible  Member  of  the  United  Nations,  ready  to 
enhance our present partnerships and build new ones to 
help create a better future for the world.  

I  will  now  expand  upon  how  Thailand  has 
contributed, and can further contribute, internationally 
to help bridge the world’s divides. 

Many  a  conflict,  whether  inter-  or  intra-State, 
stems  from  development  disparities  and  the  suffering 
caused  by  economic  injustice.  The  world  is  divided, 
not simply into have and have-not countries but, rather, 
into have-more and have-less ones, and into North and 
South. Thailand therefore believes that in bridging the 
development  gap,  global  economic  growth  should  be 
balanced and inclusive, regional economic cooperation 
and 
the 
disadvantaged  and  dispossessed  should  not  be  left 
behind. 

The  recent  global  financial  crisis  served  as  a 
valuable  wake-up  call  for  all,  reminding  us  to  live 
within  our  means.  Thailand  believes  that  people-
centred  development,  moderation 
economic 
behaviour  and the optimal use of limited resources  — 
as  stipulated  in  His  Majesty  the  King  of  Thailand’s 
“sufficiency  economy”  philosophy  —  are  essential  if 
we are to have sustainable economic development and 
growth. Thailand has embarked upon that path, and we 
urge others to follow. 

The  financial  crisis  has  also  alerted  us  to  the 
necessity of better global governance and the need for 
reform  of  international  financial  institutions,  with  due 
consideration for the interests of developing nations, as 
they  are  the  ones  affected  the  most.  Countries  must 
work  more  closely  together  to  better  coordinate  fiscal 
and monetary policies and to improve the regulation of 
financial institutions. 
On  our  part,  Thailand  has  engaged  actively  in 

the 
regional  and 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), the 
ASEAN+3  process,  the  Group  of  20  (G-20)  and  the 
United  Nations.  As  ASEAN  Chair,  Thailand  was 
invited to the G-20 Summits in London and Pittsburgh 
last  year  to  share  ASEAN’s  experiences  and  lessons 
learned from the 1997 financial crisis.  

Thailand believes that regional initiatives like the 
Chiang  Mai  Initiative  Multilateralization,  the  Asian 
forums  such  as 
international 
A/65/PV.23
Bond  Markets  Initiative  and  the  ASEAN  Economic 
Community  would  all  help  to  complement  ongoing 
global cooperation to achieve balanced and sustainable 
growth,  as  well  as  to  promote  a  resilient  international 
financial  system  that  also  addresses  the  concerns  of 
developing countries. We believe that ASEAN, through 
the  ASEAN  Chair,  will  continue  to  contribute  to  the 
forum its relevant experiences in achieving those goals. 

As  a  developing  country  itself,  Thailand  stands 
ready  to  help  others  in  need.  We  believe  in  greater 
South-South  cooperation,  for  it  is  fellow  developing 
countries that best understand what is required to help 
push  development  forward.  We  are  also  active  in 
building  partnerships  between 
the  developed  and 
developing  world,  providing  a  bridge  between  them 
through triangular cooperation by adapting technology 
from  developed  countries  to  match  the  needs  of 
developing  ones.  We  have  achieved  most  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals, and we stand ready to 
share  our  knowledge  and  experience,  especially  in 
alleviating  poverty  and  improving  well-being  in  other 
countries. 

We  have  already  done  so  in  our  region  by 
cooperating  with  our  neighbours  to  improve  social 
welfare and build essential infrastructure. Through the 
Thailand-initiated  Master 
on  ASEAN 
Connectivity,  the  initiative  for  an ASEAN  Integration 
Strategic  Framework, 
the  East-West  Economic 
Corridor,  the  Greater  Mekong  subregion  projects  and 
bilateral  cooperation,  we  have  striven  to  promote 
greater  technical  cooperation  in  the  region  and  to 
create  and  upgrade  transport  and  telecommunication 
networks  to  facilitate  greater  economic  activity.  Such 
initiatives  ultimately  help  narrow  the  developmental 
divide within the region. 

Of  the  problems  of  development,  food  security 
ranks as one of the most important. For people to live, 
mouths  must  be  fed.  As  a  major  food  exporter, 
Thailand  can  contribute  to  ensuring  greater  food 
security.  We  also  believe 
regional 
cooperation.  The  ASEAN  Plus  Three  emergency  rice 
reserve stands as a model for other regions to emulate. 

Climate  change  is  undeniable.  It  is  happening 
now.  We  are  all  experiencing  its  effects,  which  have 
exacerbated  the  world’s  woes,  including  food  scarcity 
and natural disasters. Thailand is a developing country 
actively  pursuing  voluntary  climate-change  mitigation 
efforts.  We  plan  to  increase  our  forest  area  through 
in  greater 
Plan 
10-55396 

17 
is 
transfer 
technology 
A/65/PV.23 

reforestation  and  afforestation,  as  well  as  our 
renewable energy usage. Indeed, our eleventh national 
social  and  economic  development  plan,  for  the  years 
2012  to  2016,  now  being  drafted,  aims  to  move 
Thailand towards becoming a low-carbon society. 

We  are  also  aiming  for  green  economic  growth, 
with  energy  used  more  efficiently  and  wisely.  But  the 
developed  world  must  also  play  its  part  in  helping 
others become better equipped to fight climate change. 
Greater 
thus  a  must.  We 
sincerely  hope  that  the  sixteenth  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change, to be held in Cancún, will lead to 
more  concrete  and  comprehensive  results  in  our  fight 
against climate change. 

Development  is  linked  to  human  security,  which 
is  linked  to  human  rights.  People  must  have  freedom 
from want as well as from fear. But while fundamental 
human  rights  are  universal,  how  they  are  guaranteed 
and  promoted  differs  from  country  to  country  in 
accordance  with  different  belief  systems  and  cultures. 
that  we  should  bridge  such 
Thailand  believes 
differences  by  working 
towards  a  more 
common  understanding  of  human  rights  and  how  they 
must  be  protected.  To  this  end,  forums  such  as  the 
interfaith  dialogues  and  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations 
are 
to  greater  common 
understanding. 

I  stress  again  that  human  rights  are  a  core 
principle of the Government of Thailand and its foreign 
policy.  Thailand’s  election 
the  Human  Rights 
Council for the years 2010 to 2013, and its election by 
acclamation to the presidency of the Council in June, is 
clear 
international 
community  in  Thailand’s  active  and  positive  role  in 
promoting  and  protecting  human  rights. As  a  member 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  Thailand  aims  to 
reinvigorate  the  Council  to  address  more  effectively 
human  rights  problems  worldwide.  To  this  end,  as 
President  of  the  Council,  we  hope  to  see  the  review 
process through to completion by next year. We believe 
the Council should adopt a more even-handed approach 
through  greater  cooperation  and  engagement  with  the 
concerned  countries  themselves,  to  establish  greater 
dialogue between States as well as regions and to try to 
forge consensus among them. 

the 
imposition of values seen as foreign, we must reach out 
Instead  of  offering  mere  criticism  and 
invaluable  contributions 
the  faith  of 
testament 
together 
the 
to 
to 

to 
of 
for 
the 
has 
end 
also 
2009, 
rendered 
Thailand 
to persuade the countries concerned to understand that 
human  rights  are  shared  values  and  common  to  all. 
Only through true engagement can the Council have a 
real  impact  on  the  betterment  of  people’s  lives  and 
ultimately help pave the way towards peace. Only then 
can we ensure that the rights of man do not again fall 
hostage to the wrongs of humankind. 

Thailand  has  striven  for  this  regionally  as  well. 
Under  Thailand’s  chairmanship  of  ASEAN  from  July 
2008 
the  ASEAN 
Intergovernmental  Commission  on  Human  Rights  was 
created  to  protect  and  promote  human  rights  and  to 
uphold  human  dignity.  We  have  also  contributed  to 
setting international human rights norms in the area of 
improving  the  lives  of  female  inmates,  through  Her 
Royal Highness Princess Bajrakitiyabha Mahidol’s, the 
draft United Nations rules for the treatment of women 
prisoners  and  non-custodial  measures  for  women 
offenders,  which  have  been  submitted 
the 
Assembly’s consideration (see A/C.3/65/L.5). 

humanitarian 
assistance  to  preserve  human  well-being  and  dignity 
injured  by  natural  disasters,  not  only  in  nearby  places 
such  as  Myanmar,  China  and  Pakistan,  but  also  as  far 
afield  as  Haiti  and,  most  recently,  Chad.  We  remain 
ready  to  offer  our  facilities  as  a  staging  centre  for 
humanitarian assistance in our region. 

The  flames  of  war  can  be  sparked  for  many 
reasons,  but  none  are  as  combustible  as  the  security 
divides  and  power  imbalances,  real  or  perceived,  that 
exist between nations as well as within them. Thailand 
believes that global disarmament and non-proliferation 
are essential in order to level the security playing field, 
to  dispel  that  sense  of  an  imbalance  of  power  and 
security.  The  United  Nations  must  continue  its  active 
role to that end, but major Powers and regional entities 
must  also  do  their  fair  share:  the  Southeast  Asian 
Nuclear-Weapon-Free  Zone  Treaty  is  a  good  case  in 
point. 

Thailand  supports  international  efforts  towards 
the  disarmament  and  non-proliferation  of  weapons  of 
mass  destruction.  We  have  consistently  abided  by  the 
relevant  Security  Council  resolutions  and  are  gravely 
concerned  about  the  threat  of  the  spread  of  such 
weapons  to  terrorists.  That  is  why  Thailand  has 
recently joined the Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear 
Terrorism. 
18 

10-55396 
The  maintenance  of 



international  peace  and 
security is a serious and costly endeavour, and history 
has  shown  that  the  international  community  has  often 
acted  too  late,  enforcing  and  keeping  the  peace  rather 
than  making  it.  We  believe  that  more  should  be 
invested  in  peacemaking  and  preventive  diplomacy, 
which are much less expensive than peace enforcement 
and  peacekeeping.  It  is  much  better  to  hold  talks  than 
to wage war. It is also far less likely for a community 
of  nations  to  wage  war  within  itself.  That  is  why 
ASEAN 
is  steadfastly  becoming  a  community: 
economically, socially, culturally and politically. 

But in cases where peacekeeping has been and is 
necessary, Thailand  has  also  done  its  part.  In  the  past 
two decades, we have contributed nearly 20,000 troops, 
police  officers  and  civilian  staff  to  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  operations  worldwide:  from  Cambodia 
and Timor-Leste  to  Haiti  and  very  soon  Darfur  in  the 
Sudan. Thailand has also recently sent a counter-piracy 
task  force  to  assist  international  efforts  in  patrolling 
and protecting ships from pirate attacks in the Gulf of 
Aden  area.  These  are  our  contributions 
the 
maintenance of peace and security worldwide, and we 
are  prepared  to  do  more.  Rest  assured  that  as  long  as 
there  is  peace  to  be  kept,  the  Thais  will  be  ready  to 
help keep it. 

However, peacekeeping alone is not enough. The 
conditions for sustainable peace must be built in post-
conflict societies to ensure that blood is not shed again. 
We  believe  that  sustainable  development  is  crucial  to 
perpetual peace. This is what Thailand is working for, 
by  helping  lay  the  foundations  for  peace  through 
development  during  the  peacekeeping  phase  —  from 
the transfer of agricultural know-how in Timor-Leste to 
the building of essential infrastructure in Burundi. We 
have also striven for this goal through our membership 
of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission. Thailand  envisages 
that body playing a greater role in ensuring sustainable 
peace worldwide. 
Thailand itself is poised to play a greater role in 

ensuring  international  peace  and  security.  We  have 
presented our candidature for a non-permanent seat on 
the Security Council for the term 2017-2018, for which 
we  ask  members’  invaluable  support. Thailand  aspires 
to  work  closely  with  our  international  partners  to 
ensure  that  the  path  towards  war  is  never  trodden 
again, but is rerouted towards peace. 
to 
A/65/PV.23
As 
a  medium-sized 
indispensable  role 
While we believe that the Security Council has so 

far  played  an 
in  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security,  we  also  believe  that 
the  Council  should  be  adjusted  to  better  reflect  world 
realities  in  order  to  tackle  today’s  global  challenges 
more effectively. Thailand envisions a Security Council 
working  with  greater  efficiency,  transparency  and 
engagement with concerned parties, be they countries, 
regional organizations or other United Nations bodies. 
We  believe  that,  through  such  reforms,  the  Council 
would become more effective in maintaining peace and 
security worldwide. 

Thailand  is  wholly  committed  to  the  United 
Nations  and  its  lofty  ideals.  Since  the  birth  of  the 
Organization  over  six  decades  ago,  Thailand  has 
worked  closely  with  the  United  Nations  to  advance 
peace  and  security,  development  and  human  rights 
around  the  world.  And  we  will  continue  to  do  so.  In 
spite  of  our  problems,  our  commitment  and 
determination have never wavered. 

and  middle-income 
developing  country,  Thailand  is  ready  to  engage  
with  —  and  serve  as  a  connection  between  —  North 
and South, East and West. As a country with substantial 
experience  in  addressing  today’s  problems,  we  are 
ready 
in 
development,  human  rights  and  security.  Thailand 
believes that the time to act is now, and we stand ready 
with our partners to act as a bridge between worlds and 
to help bridge the world’s divides. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor 
to  His  Excellency  Archbishop  Dominique 
Mamberti,  Secretary  for  Relations  with  States  of  the 
Observer State of the Holy See. 
Archbishop  Mamberti  (Holy  See)  (spoke  in 

French):  On  behalf  of  the  Holy  See,  I  am  pleased  to 
warmly  congratulate  you,  Mr.  President,  on  your 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fifth session, and to offer our best wishes for the 
successful  fulfilment  of  your  mandate.  In  this  new 
period of work for the General Assembly, the Holy See 
wishes to offer its genuine collaboration in tackling the 
numerous  challenges 
international 
community.  The  65  years  of  existence  of  the  United 
Nations  are  a  unique  event  in  history  in  and  of 
themselves,  particularly  when  contrasted  with  the 
annihilation  of  hopes  placed  in  the  peace  conferences 
international  gaps 
to  help  narrow 
the 
faced  by 
the 
10-55396 

19 

A/65/PV.23 

of  the  beginning  of  the  twentieth  century,  and  later  in 
the League of Nations. 

The  existence  of  the  United  Nations  shows  that 
humankind has found in the Organization a response to 
the terrifying tragedies of the two World Wars. Despite 
the  imperfection  of  its  structures  and  its  way  of 
functioning,  the  United  Nations  has  sought  to  bring 
solutions  to  international  problems  in  the  economic, 
social,  cultural  and  humanitarian  fields,  and  has  tried 
to fulfil the mandate given to it by its Charter, namely 
to  be  a  centre  for  the  coordination  of  the  action  of 
States  with  a  view  to  the  maintenance  of  peace  and 
friendly relations among peoples. 

The dialogue among the representatives of States 
that is renewed every year in the plenary of the General 
Assembly, which remains  open and lively in the other 
bodies and agencies of the United Nations family, has 
been  the  basic  tool  for  fulfilling  this  mandate.  There 
have  been  times  when  this  dialogue  has  been,  more 
than  anything  else,  a  clash  of  opposing  and 
irreconcilable  ideologies  and  positions.  However,  the 
United Nations has become irreplaceable in the life of 
the people of the world in the search for a better future 
for all the inhabitants of the planet. 
It  is  from  the  perspective  of  this  productive 

international  dialogue  carried  out 
the 
discussions  and  deliberations  that  take  place  in  this 
Hall that I would like to recall important developments 
related  to  international  peace  and  security  that  took 
place during the sixty-fourth session of the Assembly. 
First of all, the Holy See welcomes the entry into 

force  on  1  August  of  the  Convention  on  Cluster 
Munitions.  This  instrument,  which  the  Holy  See  was 
among  the  first  States  to  ratify,  does  represent  an 
important 
for  multilateralism,  based  on 
constructive cooperation among Governments and civil 
society, 
connection  between 
humanitarian law and human rights.  
the  positive 

conclusion  last  May  of  the  eighth  Review  Conference 
of the Parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear Weapons with the publication of a consensus-
based  document  that  provides  for  different  actions 
related  to  the  three  main  pillars  of  the  treaty:  nuclear 
disarmament, the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons 
and the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. Among these, 
an  important  sign  of  hope  was  a  decision  to  convene, 
before  2012,  a  conference  to  establish  a  Middle  East 
result  was 
important 
as  well 
Another 
through 
result 
the 
as 
In 
the 
and 
context 
spirit  of 
zone  free  of  nuclear  weapons  and  other  weapons  of 
mass destruction.  

Furthermore,  also  in  the  area  of  peace  and 
disarmament, the first meeting, last July, in New York, 
of the Preparatory Committee for a Conference on the 
Arms Trade Treaty, which is set for 2012 is also worth 
mentioning.  This  meeting  showed  that  the  process, 
which has begun for the treaty,  is shared by all States 
that are aware of the need to legally settle the issue of 
the  arms  trade  for  reasons  of  peace,  humanitarian 
protection and social and economic development. 

successful 
international  dialogue,  we  should  also  welcome  the 
signing  of  the  New  START  treaty  between  the  United 
States  and  the  Russian  Federation.  That  signing  is  a 
step  forward  in  relations  among  the  nuclear  Powers, 
and the Holy See hopes that it will open new prospects 
and  lead  to  substantial  arms  reductions  in  the  future. 
Similarly, during this session of the General Assembly, 
a  High-level  Meeting  was  held,  some  days  ago,  on 
revitalizing disarmament negotiations, which was very 
useful  for  discussing  ways  to  give  new  life  to  the 
Conference on Disarmament and to continue to build a 
consensus  on  the  major  obstacles  to  agreement  on 
disarmament, 
the  Comprehensive 
Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty  and  the  Fissile  Material  Cut-
off Treaty. We must do everything possible to achieve a 
world  free  from  nuclear  weapons,  and  the  Holy  See 
supports all efforts along these lines. 

During  the  previous  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  the  United  Nations  made  an  unprecedented 
contribution  to  international  cooperation  and  peace  in 
Haiti,  where,  during  the  earthquake  of  12  January 
2010, 
the  United  Nations  Mission, 
Ambassador  Hédi  Annabi,  died,  as  did  his  assistant, 
Mr.  Luiz  Carlos  da  Costa,  along  with  82  other  civil 
servants  and  members  of  the  peacekeeping  forces.  On 
behalf  of  the  Holy  See,  I  would  like  to  extend  our 
sincere  condolences  to  the  Secretary-General  and  the 
national  authorities  of  the  States  of  the  persons  who 
died,  as  well  as  their  families  and  colleagues.  Their 
sacrifice  should  serve  as  an  impetus  for  a  new  global 
commitment to maintaining peace.  

The  Holy  See  has  always  recognized  and 
appreciated  actions  carried  out  by  United  Nations 
peacekeeping 
in 
requests  for  intervention  in  recent  years  shows  the 
increased  confidence  in  United  Nations  activities  in 
in  particular, 
the  head  of 
forces.  The 
important 
increase 
20 

10-55396 
Likewise, 
the  action  of 


cooperation  with  regional  organizations,  but  it  also 
highlights  the  importance  of  the  growing  role  played 
by  the  United  Nations  and  regional  organizations  in 
preventive diplomacy.  

the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  remains  fundamental  to  rebuilding  the 
social, legal and economic fabric that was destroyed by 
war and to avoiding the relapse into conflict. Initiatives 
to prevent conflicts, to peacefully resolve conflicts, to 
separate warring parties and to promote reconstruction 
deserve generous political  and economic support from 
all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations.  Support 
from all would be an eloquent show of confidence in a 
destiny based on solidarity for humankind.  

If  we  think  that  normative  developments  with 
regard  to  disarmament  and  the  non-proliferation  of 
weapons  have  shown  signs  of  progress,  there  are 
reasons for concern with respect to the many obstacles 
to  global  security  and  peace.  Above  all,  military 
spending  in  the  world  continues  to  be  excessive  and 
even  to  increase.  The  problem  of  the  exercise  of  the 
legitimate  right  of  States  to  the  peaceful  development 
of  nuclear  energy 
in  accordance  with  effective 
international  monitoring  of  non-proliferation  remains 
relevant. The Holy See encourages all parties involved 
in settling various ongoing controversies, in particular 
those  with  respect  to  the  Korean  peninsula  and  the 
Persian  Gulf  region,  as  well  as  adjoining  regions,  to 
carry  out  an  honest  in-depth  dialogue  that  would  be 
able to harmoniously reconcile all rights of the nations 
concerned.  

in 
Pakistan add to the difficulties caused by conflicts that 
have beset that region. In addition to the humanitarian 
response,  which  must  be  generous,  and  other 
associated  measures,  there  must  also  be  a  broader 
effort at mutual and deeper understanding of the causes 
of the hostilities. 

Moreover, genuine dialogue, trust and generosity 
in  putting  aside  peripheral  or  short-term  interests  are 
the  way  to  achieve  a  lasting  solution  to  the  conflict 
between  the  State  of  Israel  and  the  Palestinians. 
Dialogue and understanding among the various parties 
involved is also the only way to achieve reconciliation 
in  Iraq  and  Myanmar,  for  example,  as  well  as  to 
resolve  ethnic  and  cultural  problems  in  Central  Asia 
and the regions of the Caucasus and to calm recurring 
terrible  natural  catastrophes 
The 
recent 
A/65/PV.23
themselves 
The  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on 
tensions  in  Africa,  such  as  in  the  Sudan,  just  before 
decisive elections. 

There  is  a  significant  economic  component  to 
most  of  those  conflicts.  Substantially  improving  the 
living  conditions  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  other 
peoples  living  under  civil  or  regional  wars  will  no 
doubt  make  a  crucial  contribution  to  transforming 
violent opposition into patient and peaceful dialogue. 

the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  took  place 
here  several  days  ago. All  Member  States  once  again 
solemnly  committed 
to  make  every 
necessary  effort  to  achieve  the  MDGs  by  2015.  The 
Holy  See  welcomes  the  reiterated  will  to  uproot 
poverty, which it hopes will resolutely be brought to an 
end.  However,  it  is  important  to  underscore  that  we 
will not achieve the Goals without fulfilling two great 
moral imperatives.  
On  the  one  hand,  it  is  essential  that  rich  and 

emerging  countries  fully  honour  their  development 
assistance commitments and immediately establish and 
operationalize  a  financial  and  trading  framework  that 
on  the  whole  favours  the  weakest  countries.  On  the 
other hand, rich and poor alike should ensure an ethical 
political  and  economic  change  that  guarantees  good 
governance  and  eradicates  all  forms  of  corruption. 
Otherwise,  we  risk  reaching  the  year  2015  not  having 
achieved sufficient results, except — and this would be 
sad  and  paradoxical  —  in  the  areas  of  population 
control 
as 
introduced  in  certain  paragraphs  of  the  recently  held 
summit.  In  that  case,  the  Millennium  Goals  would 
become  a  veritable  fraud  vis-à-vis  the  comprehensive 
human development of peoples. 
With  regard  to  the  environment,  which  is  the 

subject of Millennium Goal 7, the participation of more 
than  115  heads  of  State  and  Government  at  the 
Conference  of  the  States  Parties  to  the  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change held in Copenhagen in 
December  2009  demonstrated 
the  attention  and 
importance  attached  to  an  issue  as  complex  as  the 
climate  on  the  international  agenda.  The  Holy  See 
hopes  that  the  next  session  of  the  Conference  of  the 
States  Parties  will  take  a  political  decision  that  will 
make  the  negotiations  on  a  legally  binding  agreement 
more concrete. 
At the heart of that debate is the establishment of 

a  development  model  based  on  a  new  energy  system. 
and  promoting  minority 
lifestyles, 
10-55396 

21 

A/65/PV.23 

Nevertheless, it is important to recall the ethical issues 
associated  with  this  matter.  It  is  not  just  about 
achieving  a  world  less  dependent  on  fossil  fuels  and 
more  devoted  to  energy  efficiency  and  alternative 
fuels,  but  about  changing  unbridled  and  irresponsible 
consumption  behaviour.  As  my  delegation  has  often 
observed with regard to the Millennium Goals, it is that 
behaviour,  and  not  population  growth  and  improving 
living  conditions  in  less  developed  countries,  that 
places  a  growing  and  unsustainable  burden  on 
resources and on the environment. 

The positive results achieved by the international 
community  in  the  course  of  the  Assembly’s  previous 
session would not have been possible without dialogue 
among  Governments,  which  are  being  joined  with 
growing  determination  and  effectiveness  by  civil 
society  interlocutors.  However,  to  be  honest  and 
effective, that dialogue must be genuinely dia-logos — 
an  exchange  of  wisdom  and  wisdom  shared.  The 
dialogue  must  move  quickly  from  an  exchange  of 
words  and  a  search  for  balance  among  opposing 
interests  towards  a  genuine  sharing  of  wisdom  for  the 
common good. 

It is precisely for that reason that Article 1 of the 
Charter  links  the  promotion  of  human  rights  with  the 
defence of peace, settlement of disputes and resolving 
international problems of an economic nature. Nations 
are  not  separate  entities,  independent  of  the  peoples 
who comprise them. The fundamental national interest 
of  all  Governments  should  be  the  establishment  and 
maintenance  of  the  necessary  conditions  for  the  full 
development  of  the  material  and  spiritual  good  of 
every  inhabitant  of  their  countries.  The  promotion  of 
and respect for human rights are therefore the ultimate 
goal of dialogue and international affairs, as well as the 
indispensable  conditions  for  genuine  and  fruitful 
dialogue among countries.  

The  Holy  See  is  also  attentively  following  the 
work  of  the  Assembly’s  Third  Committee  and  of  the 
Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights. 
This  statement  in  the  general  debate  is  also  an 
opportunity  for  me  to  express  our  support  for  the 
Office of the High Commissioner for Refugees and all 
specialized  agencies  and  bodies  working  in  the  broad 
field of human and humanitarian rights. In that regard, 
the  Holy  See  also  believes  that,  although  slow,  the 
progress made in the discussions on the principle of the 
responsibility 
for  hope. 
Nevertheless,  resolute  and  effective  attention  is  still 
to  protect 
cause 
is 
its  numerous  bodies, 
lacking with regard to the problems of refugees, people 
who  have  been  forcibly  expelled  and  large-scale 
displacements.  

The  history  of  the  development  of  human  rights 
itself illustrates that respect for religious freedom is the 
cornerstone  of  the  entire  human  rights  architecture. 
When  that  freedom  is  lacking,  absent  too  will  be  the 
recognition of the transcendent nature of every human 
person, which entails a dignity that existed before, and 
is  superior  to,  the  political  and  normative  awareness 
and that creates an irrepressible framework of freedom 
and  responsibility.  If  religious  freedom  falters,  all 
human  rights  are  at  risk  of  becoming  something  that 
government grants — or, at best, the result of a balance 
of social forces, which are variable by nature, because 
they  will  have  no  foundation  other  than  balance  or 
agreement itself. 

Beyond criticism of the organizational limitations 
and lack of effectiveness of the United Nations, we see 
that there is a universally shared awareness of the need 
for  the  Organization,  as  well  as  a  universal  feeling  of 
gratitude  for  its  efforts. All  of  us  understand  that,  by 
virtue  of 
the  Organization 
constitutes  an  essential  forum  for  dialogue  and 
understanding  between  nations.  The  best  way  of 
guaranteeing that the United Nations continues to carry 
out its historic mission of coordinating and keeping all 
States  united  around  the  common  goals  of  peace, 
security and comprehensive human development for all 
will be to continuously focus on the dignity of all men 
and  women  and  effectively  respect  it,  beginning  with 
the right to life — even of the weakest, such as unborn 
children  and 
ill  —  and  religious 
freedom. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor to His Excellency Mr. Bakary Fofana, Minister of 
State  for  Foreign  Affairs,  African  Integration  and  la 
Francophonie of the Republic of Guinea 
Mr.  Fofana  (Guinea)  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 

the  honour  to  speak  before  the  General  Assembly  to 
convey 
the  people  and 
Government of Guinea, and most especially that of His 
Excellency General Sékouba Konaté, interim President 
of  the  Republic,  President  of  the  Transition.  On  this 
happy occasion, I would first of all like to congratulate 
you,  Sir,  on  your  election  to  the  presidency  of  the 
sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly. I wish you 
every  success  and  assure  you  in  advance  of  my 
the  warm  greetings  of 
terminally 
the 
22 

10-55396 
our 
to 
your 
gratitude 
inspire  our  work  at  a 


delegation’s 
support.  Your  undeniable  personal 
qualities,  in  conjunction  with  proven  ability,  will 
certainly 
time  when  our 
Organization  faces  numerous  challenges  involving  the 
entire  international  community.  I  would  also  like  to 
extend 
predecessor,  
Mr. Abdussalam Treki, for the skill and dedication that 
he showed in carrying out his mandate. 

Here,  we  would  like  to  express  our  gratitude  to 
our  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his 
tireless  efforts  to  promote  the  noble  ideals  of  the 
United  Nations  and,  in  particular,  for  his  personal 
involvement in settling the crisis in my country. 

On  assuming  power  on  23  December  2008 
against a background  of political and economic  crisis, 
the  new  Guinean  authorities  had  to  deal  with  many 
difficulties, 
in  particular  poor  governance,  State 
crimes, widespread insecurity and the proliferation and 
circulation  of  small  arms  and  light  weapons.  That 
worrying  situation  led  to  the  adoption  of  various 
measures  to  restore  order  and  security,  build  national 
unity and establish a regime respectful of human rights 
and individual and public freedoms.  

In  that  specific  context,  the  agreement  signed  in 
Ouagadougou  on  15  January  2010  enabled  the  people 
of  Guinea,  of  all  inclinations,  to  embark  on  a  path  of 
peace  and  dialogue  and  implement  a  political  plan 
ensuring the return to constitutional order based on the 
rule of law and good governance. Despite pitfalls, that 
process of democratization led to the establishment of 
transitional  bodies,  specifically,  a  Government  of 
national  unity,  led  by  a  Prime  Minister,  a  head  of 
Government  coming  from 
the 
National  Transitional  Council  and  the  Independent 
National Electoral Commission, as well as a timetable 
setting the deadline for organizing free and transparent 
elections. 

In  a  show  of  great  commitment,  following  the 
adoption of the new Constitution, the people turned out 
in  force  on  27  June  2010  for  the  most  free  and 
democratic  presidential  election  that  the  country  had 
known  since  its  independence  in  1958.  The  second 
round  of  that  important  election  is  planned  for  the 
coming weeks. 
Here, from this rostrum, I would like to launch an 

urgent  appeal 
international 
communities to continue to support Guinea with a view 
to  strengthening  peace,  stability  and  security  in  the 
the  Forces  vives, 
the  African  and 
to 
A/65/PV.23
the 
the 
recent 
d’Ivoire, 
In  Côte 
the  African  Union  and 
subregion. I would also like to pay warm tribute to the 
Facilitator,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Blaise  Compaore, 
President  of  Burkina  Faso,  for  his  tireless  efforts  to 
promote  the  democratic  process  in  Guinea.  I  also 
extend  that  tribute  to  the  International  Contact  Group 
on  Guinea  and,  through  it,  the  member  States  of  the 
Economic  Community  of  West  African  States  and  of 
the African Union, the international community and all 
friendly  countries  that  are  working  with  us  at  this 
critical time. 

Peace  and  security  continue  to  be  threatened  in 
some  parts  of  the  African  continent  and  the  world. 
Somalia  continues  to  be  subject  to  a  fratricidal  and 
painful war. In the Sudan, peace remains fragile despite 
the  huge  sacrifices  and  the  investments  granted.  We 
urge 
international 
community  to  continue  their  efforts  for  a  prompt  and 
lasting settlement of those conflicts. 

political 
developments  have  made  it  possible  for  that  friendly 
neighbouring country to move towards the presidential 
election  planned  for  31  October.  That  important  step 
forward,  in  conjunction  with  the  positive  outcomes  of 
the peacebuilding process in Sierra Leone and Liberia, 
give us real cause for encouragement and hope for the 
peoples of the Mano River Union.  

With  regard  to  Western  Sahara,  my  Government 
supports the efforts of the United Nations and remains 
firmly  committed  to  the  Moroccan  initiative  on  the 
negotiation  of  a  status  of  autonomy  for  the  Sahara 
region.  It  urges  the  stakeholders  to  find  a  lasting  and 
mutually beneficial political solution. 

The  upsurge  in  threats  and  terrorist  violence  in 
Africa  are  a  source  of  serious  concern  to  Guinea.  My 
country  supports 
the  prompt  establishment  of  a 
consultative  framework  for  action  to  eradicate  that 
scourge. 

In  the  Middle  East,  my  delegation  welcomes  the 
direct talks between the Palestinian authorities and the 
Israeli  Government  under  the  auspices  of  the  United 
States of America. It hopes that those talks will lead to 
the  establishment  of  an  independent  and  sovereign 
Palestinian  State,  living  side  by  side  in  peace  with 
Israel. The Guinean Government believes that peace in 
that region can be achieved only in a climate of mutual 
trust and with a will to implement the agreements and 
relevant  resolutions  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security  Council.  From  that  viewpoint,  Israel  must 
10-55396 

23 

A/65/PV.23 

withdraw from the occupied Palestinian territories and 
end its settlement policy. 

Only  a  week  ago,  in  this  Hall,  the  international 
community reiterated its commitment to the billions of 
people  who  are  expecting  it  to  make  a  reality  of  the 
promise of a better world expressed in the Millennium 
Declaration  (resolution  55/2).  Guinea  welcomes  the 
holding  of  that  summit,  which  allowed  our  heads  of 
State  and  Government  and  our  partners  to  reaffirm 
their  will  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs) within the agreed time frame. 

My country remains convinced that achieving the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  is  within  reach.  That 
is borne out by the remarkable progress made in many 
areas  by  countries  that  are  among  the  poorest  on  the 
planet.  Barely  five  years  from  the  2015  deadline,  we 
must  step  up  the  pace,  particularly  in  the  countries 
facing  major  challenges,  in  order  to  consolidate  the 
achievements  and  make  even  more  effective  progress 
than we have to date.  

In  order  to  take  up  the  many  challenges  of  the 
twenty-first  century,  development  partners  and  the 
international community have no choice but to step up 
efforts  to  work  together  to  lend  new  impetus  to 
international  cooperation.  My  country  urges  all 
stakeholders  to  assume,  at  the  national,  regional  and 
international  levels,  their  share  of  responsibility  in 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals.  
The  Republic  of  Guinea  welcomes  the  progress 

made 
to  official 
development  assistance. However, it regrets that long-
standing  commitments  and  those  entered  into  more 
recently are far from being met. It is vital to reflect on 
all standard and supplementary sources of financing for 
development.  Innovative  financing  is  becoming  an 
increasingly  important  means  to  mobilize  additional, 
predictable and stable resources to supplement official 
development assistance. 
Guinea,  which  attaches  great  importance  to  an 

increase  in  official  development  assistance,  reiterates 
its  proposal  on  organizing  an  African  conference  on 
innovative  financing  and  drawing  up  a  draft  African 
declaration  on  transparency  of  financial  governance 
and  fighting  illegal  capital  flows. The  purpose  of  that 
conference would be to promote strategies to mobilize 
innovative financing as a complement to traditional aid 
and the domestic resources needed to fund the MDGs. 
The  draft  African  declaration  on  transparency  of 
recent  years  with 
regard 
in 
trade 
distort 
significantly 
financial  governance  and  fighting  illegal  capital  flows 
would seek to stem the immense capital outflows from 
Africa by redirecting them towards development of the 
continent. 

Those  proposals  were  warmly  welcomed  by 
various  African  bodies  and  the  Leading  Group  on 
Innovative  Financing  for  Development.  They  also 
received support at the twenty-fifth summit of heads of 
State  and  Government  of  Africa  and  France  and  the 
backing of the African Union at its fifteenth summit in 
Kampala.  My  delegation  hopes  that  those  initiatives 
will  feature  among  the  proposals  for  action  on Africa 
during this sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly.  

Regarding  international  trade,  we  hope  for  a 
prompt conclusion of the Doha Round negotiations on 
the basis of an agreement that is both far-reaching and 
fair to all stakeholders, in particular the least developed 
countries.  We  again  call  for  developed  countries  to 
respect their commitment to remove by 2013 all export 
subsidies 
and 
agricultural  production  in  developing  countries.  My 
country  welcomes  the  substantial  progress  made  with 
respect  to  debt  relief  and  urges  the  international 
community  to  continue  its  endeavours  to  effectively 
implement 
Indebted  Poor  Countries 
Initiative. 

The  subject  of  climate  change  quite  rightly 
occupies  a  central  place  on  the  international  agenda, 
given  that  phenomenon’s  devastating  effects.  That 
reveals  the  emergence  of  a  collective  awareness  and 
the 
to 
humankind.  
for 

Given 
concerted  and  courageous 
to 
alleviate  the  suffering  of  victims,  particularly  the 
vulnerable  populations  of  poor  countries.  The 
commitments  undertaken  with  regard  to  developing 
countries  in  terms  of  financial  resources,  technology 
transfer and capacity-building must be fulfilled, so that 
the appropriate measures can be undertaken to adapt to 
climate  change  and  to  mitigate  its  effects  in  those 
countries. In that connection, my delegation hopes that 
the climate conference to be held at the end of the year 
in  Cancún,  Mexico,  will 
to  an  ambitious 
agreement that will commit States to concrete action.  

As  it  is  fully  aware  of  the  pressing  need  to  act, 
the Guinean Government, for its part, is determined to 
assume  its  share  of  the  responsibility,  especially  since 
that  urgency,  my  country  calls 
international  efforts 
that  phenomenon  poses 
the  Heavily 
lead 
that 
real 
threat 
that 
24 

10-55396 
role  of 
the  United  Nations 
to  make 


Guinea  plays  a  leading  role  in  implementing  all 
policies  and  strategies  aimed  at  achieving  sustainable 
development  and  restoring  ecological  balance 
in 
western African. As  the  source  of  over  20  rivers  that 
irrigate  the  West  African  region,  including  the  Niger, 
Senegal,  Gambia  and  Makona  Rivers,  Guinea  is  a 
veritable  water  tower  for  Western  Africa  and  the 
crucible for an incredibly rich biodiversity. 
The main theme of this session, “Reaffirming the 

central 
in  global 
governance”, is extremely timely. We acknowledge that 
most  gratefully.  In  a  highly  interdependent  world  that 
is  marked  by  the  combined  effects  of  many  crises,  a 
new culture of international solidarity is essential.  

Likewise, a profound reform of our Organization 
is  needed 
it  more  democratic,  more 
representative and transparent. Sixty-five years after its 
creation,  the  United  Nations  does  indeed  need  to  be 
reformed in order to become more effective and better 
placed  to  meet  the  aspirations  of  our  peoples.  Let  us 
make it an effective instrument in the service of peace, 
security,  development  and  human  rights.  Only  in  that 
way will current and future generations in all countries 
and all regions of the world see their hopes of living in 
peace  realized  in  a  world  that  is  free  and  prosperous, 
without fear, poverty or need. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 

His  Excellency  Daw  Penjo,  Foreign  Secretary  of  the 
Kingdom of Bhutan. 
Mr. Penjo (Bhutan): I would like to congratulate 

you, Mr. President, on your election to the presidency 
of  the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session. We 
are confident that with your vast academic and political 
experience,  you  will  provide  the  Assembly  with  the 
necessary  leadership  in  the  year  ahead.  Allow  me  to 
also  commend  your  predecessor,  His  Excellency  
Mr. Ali Treki, for his many initiatives and guidance in 
steering 
to  a  successful 
conclusion. 

My  delegation  welcomes  your  proposal  on 
“Reaffirming the central  role of the United Nations in 
global governance” as the theme for the general debate 
of  this  session.  That  theme  is  most  appropriate,  as  it 
comes  at  a  time  when  the  world  looks  to  the  United 
Nations  for  its  stewardship  in  addressing  the  multiple 
global crises, the devastating effects of climate change 
and  the  issue  of  the  maintenance  of  global  peace  and 
security. The United Nations has long been recognized 
the  sixty-fourth  session 
A/65/PV.23
the 
as  an  indispensable  global  Organization  due  to  its 
mandate,  and  must  continuously  adapt  itself  to  deal 
with  the  challenges  confronting  the  world  so  that  its 
pivotal  role  in  global  governance  is  maintained.  No 
other  multilateral  organization  or  intergovernmental 
grouping,  without 
legitimacy  of  universal 
membership,  can  hope  to  replace  the  centrality  of  the 
United Nations in global affairs. 

The  vast  majority  of  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  are  small  States.  The  principle  of  sovereign 
equality  enshrined  in  the  United  Nations  Charter 
establishes  that  all  States,  regardless  of  size,  wealth, 
relative power, population or level of development, are 
accorded  equal  opportunity 
to  participate  and 
contribute  to  the  work  of  the  United  Nations,  its 
principal organs and its high-level posts. That, in fact, 
is the bedrock upon which this House was founded 64 
years  ago.  It  is  a  principle  that  must  remain  in  the 
forefront  and  help  chart  our  course  further  as  our 
dialogue on United Nations reform continues.  

How can we, as Members of the United Nations, 
credibly  espouse  equity  among  nations  and  peoples  if 
we  fail  to  practise  it  among  ourselves? After  39  years 
of  membership,  Bhutan  continues  to  believe  that  the 
United  Nations  still  has  room  and  a  role  for  smaller 
States, as equal partners in global affairs, including in 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
For  that  reason,  Bhutan  is  seeking  membership  in  the 
Security Council in a non-permanent seat for the term 
2013 and 2014. 

Last week at the High-level Plenary Meeting, our 
heads  of  State  and  Government  acknowledged  the 
plight  of  millions  of  people  living  in  poverty  and 
agreed to recommit themselves to keeping their pledge 
on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  The 
successful  achievement  of  the  MDGs  by  all  Member 
States  will  serve  as  a  measure  of  the  effectiveness  of 
the United Nations. The United Nations must therefore 
continue  to  provide  the  necessary  leadership  to  foster 
renewed global partnership to enable the realization of 
all the MDGs by 2015. 

On  20  September,  Bhutan’s  Prime  Minister 
highlighted to this gathering the need to move beyond 
conventional  development  practices  (see  A/65/PV.3). 
He therefore proposed the inclusion of happiness as the 
ninth Millennium Development Goal. My delegation is 
hopeful  that  that  proposal  of  my  Prime  Minister  will 
receive the support of the United Nations membership. 
10-55396 

25 

in 
is  not  only  one  of 
A/65/PV.23 


My  delegation  is  pleased  to  note  that  the  reform 
agenda initiated following the World Summit in 2005 is 
beginning to yield results. In that regard, we welcome 
the  Assembly’s  unanimous  adoption  of  the  resolution 
on system-wide coherence (resolution 64/289) early in 
July  2010,  which,  inter  alia,  established  UN  Women. 
The creation of UN Women effectively consolidates all 
the existing mandates and functions relating to women 
and  constitutes  an  important  step  in  fulfilling  the 
commitments  undertaken 
the  Fourth  World 
Conference  on  Women,  held  in  Beijing.  We  are 
confident that that entity will address the global issues 
of  gender  equality  and  women’s  empowerment  with 
great vigour. 

Bhutan  has  long  been  convinced  that  no  society 
can be a happy one if it is not inclusive. Promoting the 
conditions  that  will  enable  the  pursuit  of  national 
happiness  by  all  our  citizens,  so  that,  regardless  of 
race,  sex,  language,  religion,  politics  or  other  status, 
they may enjoy a good quality of life in a progressive 
and  prosperous  country 
the 
objectives  of  government,  it  is  our  moral  obligation. 
This  spirit  is  further  reaffirmed  by  our  Constitution, 
which  guarantees 
rights  of  all 
Bhutanese, 
is 
committed  to  building  an  inclusive  society,  one  that 
enables all Bhutanese, including those with disabilities, 
to lead fulfilling lives, to contribute and to participate 
as  full  members  of  society.  My  Government  was 
therefore  particularly  pleased 
the  United 
Nations  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  Persons  with 
Disabilities on 21 September 2010. 

We are also pleased to note that resolution 64/289 
on  system-wide  coherence  will  contribute  to  the 
enhancement of the operational activities of the United 
Nations,  making  the  funding  system  more  systematic 
and harmonizing the overall governance structure. This 
would  improve  the  capacity  of  the  United  Nations  to 
more  effectively  deliver  assistance  to  countries,  thus 
strengthening its development pillar. 

My  delegation  recognizes  the  important  role  of 
the General Assembly in setting the global agenda and 
dealing with many of the important issues confronting 
the  international  community  today.  With  each  passing 
year,  the  responsibilities  entrusted  to  the  General 
Assembly, as the chief deliberative and policy-making 
body of the United Nations, continue to grow, and we 
believe  that  the  authority  of  the  General  Assembly 
the 
must  be  simultaneously  enhanced 
thus  demonstrating 
that  Bhutan 
fundamental 
to  assume 
to  sign 
the 
to 
it 
it.  We 
realities 
and  make 
the  permanent  and 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
growing  mandate  entrusted 
therefore 
appreciate  the  progress  made  by  the Ad  Hoc Working 
Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  General Assembly, 
where  a  number  of  key  issues  have  been  highlighted, 
especially  the  strengthening  of  the  Office  of  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  are  confident 
that, with the political determination of Member States, 
those  deliberations  will  result  in  a  stronger  United 
Nations. 
We are encouraged that, in the past year, the five 

rounds  of 
the 
question  of  equitable  representation  in  and  larger 
membership of the Security Council and other matters 
related to the Council, held under the chairmanship of 
Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  of  Afghanistan,  is  making 
good  progress.  My  delegation  supports  the  expansion 
of  both 
the  non-permanent 
membership  of  the  Security  Council  to  reflect  the 
contemporary 
a  more 
representative  body.  We  believe  that  India,  Japan, 
Germany  and  Brazil  plus  two  countries  from  the 
African  continent,  which  have 
the  capacity  and 
resources to shoulder the onerous responsibilities with 
regard  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security, should be granted permanent membership. 

the 
international  community  to  the  MDGs  with  a  view  to 
improving  the  lives  of  the  people  in  the  poorest 
countries,  it  is  most  timely  that  the  Fourth  United 
Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries 
should  take  place  in  2011  in  Turkey.  We  thank  the 
Government  of  Turkey  for  its  generous  offer  and 
assistance  in  hosting  this  important  Conference.  We 
also appreciate the efforts of the United Nations Office 
of  the  High  Representative  for  the  Least  Developed 
Countries,  Landlocked  Developing  Countries  and 
Small 
in  coordinating 
preparations for the Conference. 

As  we  undertake  preparations  for  this  event,  we 
will  look  to  you,  Mr.  President,  for  your  support  and 
direction, so that the least developed countries (LDCs) 
together with all our development partners cannot only 
ensure  a 
successful  outcome,  but  also,  more 
importantly, give their people a chance for a better life. 
We are confident that the Conference will build on the 
successes  of  the  Programme  of  Action  for  the  Least 
Developed  Countries  for  the  Decade  2001-2010  and 
adopt new measures and strategies for the development 
of the LDCs in the next decade. 
Island  Developing  States 
commitment  of 
renewed 
Given 
the 
26 

10-55396 
lead 



As  most  fittingly  described,  the  other  defining 
challenge of our time, namely, climate change, requires 
the  collective  and  coordinated  effort  of  all  nations,  as 
its devastating effects know no bounds. My country has 
full  faith  in  the  leadership  of  the  United  Nations  and 
believes  in  the  centrality  of  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
in 
addressing  climate  change.  We  are  confident  that  the 
to  a  concrete, 
ongoing  negotiations  will 
comprehensive  and  equitable  agreement  at 
the 
sixteenth session of the Conference of the Parties to the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change  in  Cancún  later  this  year,  as  envisaged  under 
the  Bali  Action  Plan.  Success  will  be  essential  in 
Cancún for small and vulnerable countries such as my 
own,  which  bears  a  heavier  burden  as  the  result  of 
climate change. We must have the necessary resources 
for mitigation and adaptation. 

With  the  severe  threats  and  damaging  effects 
caused  by  climate  change  in  South  Asia,  as  recently 
occurred  in  Pakistan,  it  was  no  coincidence  that  the 
sixteenth  Summit  of  the  South  Asian  Association  for 
Regional  Cooperation  (SAARC),  which  Bhutan  was 
honoured to host in April this year, appropriately chose 
climate change as its theme. In addition to adopting the 
Thimphu Silver Jubilee Declaration, entitled “Towards 
a  Green  and  Happy  South  Asia”,  the  Summit  also 
adopted  the  Thimphu  Statement  on  Climate  Change. 
The  Statement  outlines  important  initiatives  to  further 
strengthen  and 
to 
address the adverse impacts of climate change in South 
Asia.  One  of  the  important  outcomes  of  the  Thimphu 
Summit  is  the  formulation  of  a  common  SAARC 
statement  on  climate  change,  which  Bhutan,  as  the 
current SAARC Chair, will present at the forthcoming 
Conference of the Parties in December in Cancún. 
that,  as  Bhutan 

third  year  as  a  democratic 
progresses 
constitutional  monarchy, 
for  a 
sustainable  and  vibrant  democracy  are  growing 
stronger.  The  institutional  arrangements  for  the  three 
branches  of  Government,  as  required  under  our 
Constitution,  are  now  complete  and  functioning  with 
the  establishment  of  the  Supreme  Court  earlier  this 
year.  Likewise,  all  the  constitutional  bodies  with 
oversight  functions  have  been  firmly  established,  and 
the media is performing its role as the fourth estate in 
an atmosphere of freedom. 
regional  cooperation 
We  are  pleased 
foundations 
to  report 
intensify 
into 
its 
the 
A/65/PV.23

There  is  no  doubt  that,  given  the  challenges 
confronting our increasingly interdependent world, the 
role  of  the  United  Nations  is  vital  in  addressing  those 
issues.  In  order  to  do  so,  the  United  Nations  requires 
the  full  support  and  commitment  of 
the  entire 
membership. Only then will it be able to truly reaffirm 
its  central  role  in  global  governance.  I  therefore 
conclude  by  assuring  you,  Mr.  President,  of  my 
delegation’s  full  support  and  cooperation,  as  you 
embark on a year-long journey of further strengthening 
this Organization. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor to His Excellency Mr. Pak Kil Yon, Vice-Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea. 
Mr. Pak Kil Yon (Democratic People’s Republic 

of Korea) (spoke in Korean; interpretation provided by 
the  delegation):  Mr.  President,  on  behalf  of  the 
delegation  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea, I would like, first of all, to congratulate you on 
your  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  United  Nations 
General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session. In the same 
vein,  I  believe  that  your  able  leadership  will  bring 
success to this session. 

This year marks the sixty-fifth anniversary of the 
founding  of  the  United  Nations.  The  founding  of  the 
United  Nations  laid  down  an  international  legal  basis 
for  preventing  the  recurrence  of  catastrophes,  such  as 
the 
immeasurable 
sufferings on humankind, for safeguarding world peace 
and  security  and 
for  achieving  socio-economic 
progress. The most important meaning of the founding 
of  the  United  Nations  is  the  establishment  of  the 
principle  of 
international 
relations,  which  has  enabled  all  States  on  this  planet, 
large  and  small,  to  join  their  efforts  for  peace  and 
development. 

The  history  of  the  United  Nations,  spanning  65 
years,  is  the  history  of  continued  challenges  to  the 
purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter. 
The  logic  and  politics  of  power,  which  seek  to  negate 
sovereign equality, still remain in sight in international 
relations,  even  today  after  the  turn  of  the  century. 
International  law  and  order  are  trampled  on  by  the 
arbitrariness  and  high-handedness  of 
individual 
Powers.  Military  invasions  of  sovereign  States,  arms 
build-ups  and 
threats  of  use  of  force  continue 
sovereign  equality 
two  World  Wars 
inflicted 
that 
in 
10-55396 

27 

the  Security  Council 
A/65/PV.23 

unchecked  and,  what  is  more,  a  series  of  pretexts  are 
used to justify them. 

Despicable  trickery  and  attempts  to  overthrow 
other  countries’  socio-political  systems  have  become 
ever  more  rampant.  The  banner  of  human  rights 
protection  and  the  institutional  mechanism  of  the 
United  Nations  General  Assembly  are  abused  to  that 
end. To deny the right of other countries to choose their 
own  systems  constitutes  in  itself  a  violation  of  the 
human rights of their people. The Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea is one of those victimized countries. 

That reality requires a strengthening of the role of 
the  United  Nations,  in  conformity  with  the  changed 
times and situation, which, in our view, is possible only 
after  a  more  dynamic  and  appropriate  reform  of  the 
United  Nations.  The  composition  and  the  rules  of 
procedure  of 
should  be 
restructured  and  revised  in  such  a  way  that  the 
representation  and  will  of  the  entire  United  Nations 
membership  are  correctly  reflected,  in  particular,  by 
the full representation of the non-aligned countries and 
other  developing  countries.  The  representation  of  a 
new  group  of  United  Nations  Member  States  that 
achieved independence after the founding of the United 
Nations should also be ensured. 

The authority of the General Assembly should be 
enhanced  decisively.  The  General Assembly,  which  is 
the  most  democratic  organ  in  the  United  Nations,  has 
less  power  than  the  undemocratic  Security  Council. 
That abnormal situation should no longer be allowed to 
continue.  In  addressing  key  issues  such  as  peace  and 
development, the broad and active participation of the 
developing countries and their interests should be duly 
promoted. 
The  Korean  peninsula,  like  the  Middle  East,  has 

long been a chronic hot spot seriously affecting world 
peace  and  security.  The  United  Nations  has  included 
the Korean issue as a major item on its agenda for over 
30  years.  This  led  to  the  adoption  of  resolution  
3390 (XXX) in 1975, calling for the dissolution of the 
the 
United  Nations  Command 
withdrawal  of  all  foreign  forces 
the 
replacement  of  the Armistice Agreement  with  a  peace 
agreement,  as  a  measure 
tension  and 
maintain lasting peace on the Korean peninsula. 

Another  35  years  have  elapsed  since  then.  The 
Korean  peninsula  is  nevertheless  still  in  a  state  of 
armistice,  which  means  that  there  is  neither  war  nor 
in  South  Korea, 
there  and 
to  reduce 
security  and  promote 
peace.  While  the  aforesaid  resolution  is  yet  to  be 
implemented,  the  sovereignty  and  the  efforts  of  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
towards 
peaceful  development  are  constantly  threatened  and 
undermined,  as  explosive  situations  leading  to  the 
brink  of  war  are  created  periodically  on  the  Korean 
peninsula. The most recent example is the farcical huge 
sabre-rattling arms build-up and threat  of use  of  force 
waged  on  a  massive  scale  by  the  United  States  and 
South Korean authorities on the Korean peninsula and 
its  surroundings  by  taking  advantage  of  the  Cheonan
incident. 

The touch-and-go situation created some time ago 
in  North-East  Asia,  including  the  Korean  peninsula, 
proved  once  again  without  a  doubt  that  the  United 
States  is  not  a  defender,  but  a  disruptor  of  peace. As 
long  as  the  United  States  nuclear  aircraft  carriers  sail 
around  the  seas  of  our  country,  our  nuclear  deterrent 
can  never  be  abandoned,  but  should  rather  be 
strengthened further. That is the lesson we have drawn. 

The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
regards it as its noble duty as a Member State to safeguard 
peace  and 
socio-economic 
development and common prosperity in and around the 
Korean peninsula. Had it not been for the powerful war 
deterrent  built  by  the  Songun  politics  of  the  great 
leader of our people, General Kim Jong Il, the Korean 
peninsula  would  have  already  been  turned  into  a 
battlefield  scores  of  times,  thus  destroying  regional 
peace and stability. 

A  peaceful  environment  is  most  urgently  needed 
for  the  Government  and  people  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  as 
they  are  now 
concentrating  all  efforts  on  economic  development  in 
order  to  open  the  gate  for  a  powerful  and  prosperous 
State in 2012, which marks the centennial anniversary 
of the birth of the great leader, President Kim Il Sung. 
This year, which falls on the sixtieth anniversary of the 
outbreak  of  the  Korean  War,  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  again  proposed  respectfully  to  the 
parties  to  the  Armistice  Agreement  to  begin  talks  as 
early as possible with a view to replacing the Armistice 
Agreement with a peace agreement. If that proposal is 
realized, 
the 
implementation  of  its  historic  resolution  adopted  35 
years  ago.  The  conclusion  of  a  peace  agreement  will 
represent 
the  most  effective  confidence-building 
measure for removing distrust among the parties to the 
Armistice  and  serve  as  a  powerful  driving  force 
the  General  Assembly  will 
see 
28 

10-55396 
in 
is 
the  Korean 
the  denuclearization  of 


guaranteeing 
peninsula. 

There  is  no  change  in  the  position  of  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
its 
opposition  to  nuclear  war,  the  nuclear  arms  race  and 
nuclear  proliferation.  The  denuclearization  of 
the 
Korean  peninsula 
the  policy  goal  maintained 
consistently  by  the  Government  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  for  peace  and  security  in 
North-East Asia and the denuclearization of the world. 
The denuclearization of the Korean peninsula, referred 
to in the Joint Statement of the Six-Party Talks issued 
on  19  September  2005,  means  the  process  of  turning 
the whole Korean peninsula into a nuclear-weapon-free 
zone  by  completely  eliminating  the  real  external 
nuclear threats on the Korean peninsula in a verifiable 
manner. As  already  clarified,  our  nuclear  weapons  do 
not serve as a means to attack or threaten others, but as 
a self-defensive deterrent, for all intents and purposes, 
to counter aggression and attacks from outside. 

As  a  responsible  nuclear-weapon  State,  we  are 
willing  to  join  in  the  international  efforts  for  nuclear 
non-proliferation  and  the  safe  management  of  nuclear 
material on an equal footing with other nuclear-weapon 
States.  It  is  the  long-cherished  desire  of  the  entire 
Korean  nation  to  put  an  end  to  the  history  of 
disgraceful  division  forced  upon  it  by  foreign  forces 
and to live peacefully on a reunified land. 

In  the  new  century,  important  progress  towards 
reconciliation,  common  prosperity  and  reunification 
has  been  achieved  in  inter-Korean  relations.  The 
historic  inter-Korean  summit  between  the  North  and 
the South in 2000 and its resultant adoption of the joint 
declaration  of  15  June,  followed  by  another  inter-
Korean  summit  in  2007  and  the  publication  of  the 
declaration of 4 October, constitute a good programme 
for reunification, unprecedented in our national history. 
Those historic declarations were welcomed and warmly 
supported by the United Nations General Assembly.  

present  South  Korean 
authorities  reject  this  grand  reunification  programme 
and  are  driving  inter-Korean  relations  towards  a 
rupture by bringing forward the so-called “three-phase 
unification  proposal”,  which  is  anti-reunification  and 
confrontational. They are stepping up an atmosphere of 
war  against  their  fellow  countrymen  in  collusion  with 
foreign  forces  with  a  view  to  rationalizing  their 
confrontational  policy 
the  North.  The  
Unfortunately, 
against 
the 
A/65/PV.23
anti-reunification  forces  have  no  place  on  the  Korean 
peninsula and, as such, the anti-peace forces should not 
be  offered  a  place  in  the  international  community.  In 
the future, the Government of the Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea will thoroughly implement the joint 
declaration of 15 June and the declaration of 4 October, 
and  thus  achieve  the  reconciliation  and  unity  of  the 
nation,  which  will  surely  open  a  new  era  of 
independent reunification, peace and prosperity. 

The ideal of the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea’s  foreign  policy  is  independence,  peace  and 
friendship.  It  accords  with  the  ideas  of  the  United 
Nations. In accordance with that ideal, the Government 
of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  will 
further strengthen and develop friendly and cooperative 
relations with all Member States and fully discharge its 
responsibilities  for  ensuring  peace  and  security  in  the 
Korean peninsula and the rest of the world. 

In  conclusion,  my  delegation  totally  rejects  the 
provocative  statement  delivered  by  the  South  Korean 
delegation  on  25  September  (see  A/65/PV.17),  which 
referred  to  the  Cheonan  incident  again  and  distorted 
the  presidential  statement  of  the  Security  Council  of  
9  July  2010  (S/PRST/2010/13  and  S/PV.6355).  The 
truth of the Cheonan incident is still under cover. The 
results  of  the  unilateral  investigation  of  South  Korea, 
have  raised  one  doubt  after  another  since  its  release, 
following  scientific  military  analysis  and  growing 
manifold criticism inside and outside South Korea. The 
South  Korean  authorities  have  persistently  refused  to 
accept our proposal to send a field inspection group for 
scientific and objective verification of the truth of the 
incident. 

The Security Council, in its presidential statement 
dated  9  July  2010,  took  note  of  responses  from  other 
relevant  parties,  including  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea, which has stated that it had nothing 
to  do  with  the  incident  and  encouraged  the  settlement 
of all outstanding issues by peaceful means to resume 
direct  dialogue  and  negotiations.  South  Korea  is 
advised  not  to  create  tension  on  the  Korean  peninsula 
by  waging  war  exercises  with  outside  forces  and 
pursuing a confrontational approach in defiance of the 
concerns  of  the  international  community.  It  should 
immediately embark on North-South dialogue so as to 
find 
as 
recommended  by  the  presidential  statement  of  the 
Security Council.  
all  outstanding 
solutions 
issues, 
to 
10-55396 

29 

to  maintain 
A/65/PV.23 

The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor to His Excellency Mr. Vitaly Churkin, head of the 
delegation of the Russian Federation. 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  The  current,  sixty-fifth  session  of 
the 
General  Assembly  has  started  with  an  unprecedented 
number  of  events  covering  the  full  range  of  the  most 
topical  international  issues.  It  is  encouraging  that,  in 
the light of the numerous challenges facing mankind, a 
positive unified platform for collective action has been 
taking  shape,  with  the  United  Nations  playing  the 
central  role.  Having  learned  from  the  dramatic  events 
of  recent  decades  and  having  realized  that  attempts  to 
cut  the  Gordian  knot  by  force  in  violation  of  the 
Charter  will  only  lead  to  deadlock,  the  international 
community  has  concluded  that  there  is  no  alternative 
but  to  address  political,  economic  and  other  problems 
through  joint  efforts  based  on  international  law.  And 
the  United  Nations  provides  a  universal  platform  to 
strengthen this positive trend in international relations.  
The  Security  Council  is  a  key  instrument  of  this 

Organization 
international  peace  and 
security. The high-level Security Council meeting held 
on 23 September (S/PV.6389) reaffirmed its members’ 
intention  to  enhance  that  body’s  efficiency,  not  only 
through  direct  involvement  in  conflict  settlement  but 
also  by  creating  prerequisites  for  the  non-recurrence 
and  prevention  of  crises.  This  proves 
the 
comprehensive  approach 
international 
security  is  gaining  ground,  as  it  reflects  modern 
realities  and  is  based  on  the  principles  and  provisions 
of the United Nations Charter. 

The United Nations faces unprecedented, serious 
and multifaceted tasks in the key area of peacekeeping. 
While  paying  tribute  to  the  efforts  and  sacrifice  of 
thousands  of  men  and  women  Blue  Helmets,  joint 
efforts should continue to refine the theory and practice 
of peacekeeping under United Nations auspices and to 
improve  the  quality  of  planning  and  the  conduct  of 
peacekeeping  operations  with  adequate  political 
control by the Security Council. 

It  is  encouraging  that  the  United  Nations  is 
working  towards  this  goal  on  a  truly  collective  basis. 
Member States have quite a few constructive ideas on 
their 
to 
revitalize  the  Military  Staff  Committee  in  order  to 
improve  the  military  expertise  of  Security  Council 
decisions. 
include  Russia’s 
table,  which 
to  ensuring 
initiative 
that 

This year has been marked by progress in nuclear 
disarmament.  The  2010  Treaty  between  the  United 
States  of  America  and  the  Russian  Federation  on 
Measures  for  the  Further  Reduction  and  Limitation  of 
Strategic  Offensive Arms,  signed  by  the  Presidents  of 
Russia  and  the  United  States  in  Prague,  is  a  real 
contribution  by  our  two  countries  to  strengthening 
international  security  and  strategic  stability.  It  is  also 
the result of  positive changes in the relations between 
Russia and the United States that have placed Russian-
American interaction in world affairs on a qualitatively 
new level.  

We  hope  that  the  strong  impetus  provided  by 
Moscow  and  Washington  to  the  nuclear  disarmament 
process  will  be  followed  similarly  by  all  nations, 
primarily by nuclear-weapon States. 

Pursuant to Russia’s policy towards strengthening 
the United Nations role in global security, disarmament 
and confidence-building, we intend to table three draft 
resolutions  during 
the  current  General  Assembly 
session:  one  on  transparency  and  confidence-building 
measures  in  outer  space  activities,  co-sponsored  with 
China;  a  draft  resolution  on  developments  in  the  field 
of  information  and  telecommunications  in  the  context 
of  international  security;  and  a  Russia-United  States 
co-sponsored  draft  resolution  on  bilateral  strategic 
offensive  arms  reductions  and  the  new  framework  for 
strategic  relations.  We  call  for  their  adoption  by 
consensus. 

the  
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  and  its 
guaranteed 
the 
cornerstone 
international  
non-proliferation  regime.  In  that  context,  the  search 
must  continue  for  an  effective  solution  to  the  Iranian 
nuclear problem on the basis of NPT provisions and the 
norms  of  international  Law.  The  Iranian  side  must 
ensure 
transparency  and 
cooperation  with  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (IAEA),  which  is  acting  on  behalf  of  the 
international  community  with  the  Security  Council’s 
support. 

Clarifying  the  outstanding  questions  about  the 
Iranian  nuclear  programme  would  not  only  meet  the 
goal  of  strengthening  the  non-proliferation  regime  but 
would  also  quite  obviously  promote  the  interests  of 
Iran. Russia sees no reasonable alternative to a political 
and  diplomatic  settlement  of 
the  Iranian  nuclear 
implementation 
a 
The  universalization  of 
the  Treaty  on 
strengthened 
strict 
of 
level  of 
comprise 
the 
requisite 
30 

10-55396 
to 


problem through constructive dialogue between Tehran 
and  the  six  countries  involved.  The  meeting  of  the 
Foreign  Ministers  of  the  six  countries  in  New  York 
helped to consolidate the shared intention to ensure the 
earliest  resumption  of  such  a  dialogue.  We  will 
continue to do our utmost to achieve this goal. 

As  far  as  the  sanctions  instrument  is  concerned, 
sanctions are not a goal in themselves. The objective of 
the  sanctions  regime  established  by  the  Security 
Council is to signal to Iran that it must fully cooperate 
with  IAEA,  and  to  give  an  impetus  to  the  negotiating 
process.  All  members  of  the  international  community 
must  show  solidarity  based  on  mutual  responsibility. 
We  strongly  reject  a  situation  in  which  unilateral 
decisions — including ex-territorial ones that undermine 
the very foundation of further joint efforts — are made 
with regard to sanctions in parallel to collective efforts 
by  the  United  Nations  Security  Council. We  must  put 
an  end 
that  practice,  which  runs  counter 
to 
international law and has negative political effects. 

Even  more  obvious,  the  economic  and  financial 
trade  blockade  of  Cuba,  whose  lifting  the  General 
Assembly  has  demanded  for  a  number  of  years,  is 
clearly  an  anachronism.  The  codification  of 
the 
principle  of  equal  and 
is 
security 
indispensable to productive international efforts in this 
field,  which 
the  precise  goal  of  President 
Medvedev’s initiative to conclude a treaty on European 
security. The proposal targets the complete transition of 
Euro-Atlantic policy from its old Cold War agenda to a 
new  one,  as  well  as  a  firm  legal  foundation  for  the 
principle  of 
the  
Euro-Atlantic  region  proclaimed  in  the  1990s.  We 
welcome  the  substantive  dialogue  on  this  important 
Russian 
in  various 
international forums. 
A  comprehensive  settlement  in  the  Middle  East 

towards 
would  make 
strengthened  global 
stability.  The  parties  must 
demonstrate  political  will  and  extend  every  effort  to 
promote the success of the resumed direct Palestinian-
Israeli  talks.  The  results  of  the  ministerial  Quartet 
meeting  of  major  international  mediators  held  on  
21 September demonstrated that appropriate support to 
the  Israelis  and  Palestinians  will  continue,  but  the 
ultimate  responsibility  for  a  successful  outcome  rests 
with them. 
initiative,  which  has  started 
indivisible  security 
contribution 
indivisible 
for  all 
crucial 
in 
is 
a 
A/65/PV.23

In  this  connection,  the  decision  by  the  Israeli 
authorities  to  not  extend  the  moratorium  on  Israeli 
settlement activities has raised serious concern. A way 
out  of  the  current  impasse  should  be  found  so  as  to 
ensure that negotiations continue. Our proposal to hold 
an  international  conference  on  the  Middle  East  in 
Moscow  is  aimed  at  advancing  the  Middle  East 
settlement. This proposal has gained the support of all 
interested  parties  and  the  United  Nations  Security 
Council.  If 
the  direct  Palestinian-Israeli  dialogue 
becomes stable, the preparations for the Moscow forum 
can  get  under  way,  which  should  also  substantively 
examine the Syrian and Lebanese tracks, as well as the 
prospects  for  the  multilateral  aspects  of  the  Middle 
East settlement. 
The development of a  comprehensive  strategy to 

address the interconnected problems of the Middle East 
is  on  the  agenda.  It  is  necessary  to  continue  working 
towards  an  international  conference  in  2012  on  the 
establishment  of  a  zone  free  of  nuclear  weapons  and 
other weapons of mass  destruction  and their means of 
delivery in the Middle East, pursuant to the decision of 
the Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on 
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. 
Russia  supports  the  international  strategy  for  a 

comprehensive 
for  post-conflict 
rehabilitation  of  Afghanistan  adopted  by  the  Kabul 
Conference,  which  envisages  a  stage-by-stage  transfer 
of  responsibility  for  the  situation  in  that  country  to 
Afghan  authorities,  as  effective  governing  structures 
are established in the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. 
The  future  of Afghanistan  must  be  determined  by  the 
Afghan 
international 
community  must  continue  to  provide  its  assistance, 
with  an  important  role  being  played  by  the  United 
Nations. 

and 
throughout  the  region  will  be  impossible  without 
resolving  the  drug  problem.  The  dimension  of  the 
danger posed by narcotics emanating from Afghanistan 
represents  a  clear  threat  to  international  peace  and 
stability and requires more resolute actions throughout 
the  entire  chain  of  the  production  and  proliferation  of 
narcotics  —  from  the  destruction  of  drug  crops  to  the 
suppression  of  precursor  supplies,  including  drug 
traffickers on the sanction lists of the Security Council. 
It  is  also  necessary  to  move  to  a  new  level  of 
international 
to 
establish  financial  and  counter-narcotics  security  belts 
cooperation.  Russia’s 
themselves.  The 
in  Afghanistan 
stabilization 
settlement 
initiative 
Lasting 
people 
and 
10-55396 

31 

the 
the 
to 
is 
The 
The 
the  Sudan 
the  parties 
settlement  process 
regional  dimension  of 
A/65/PV.23 

along  the  perimeter  of  Afghan’s  borders  is  consistent 
with those goals. 

long-term 
stabilization  of  Afghanistan  is  becoming  ever  more 
topical. To that end, we must fully engage the potential 
of  relevant  organizations  that  are  actively  working  in 
close  contact  with  Kabul  on Afghan  issues,  including 
the  Collective  Security  Treaty  Organization  and  the 
Shanghai Cooperation Organization. 

is 
in 
approaching  an  important  milestone.  As  the  date  of 
referendum  on  the  self-determination  of  the  South  of 
that  country  draws  closer, 
the 
Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement  must  redouble  their 
efforts to overcome the problems that still divide them. 
We  should  also  give  new  impetus  to  the  Darfur 
settlement  process.  At  stake 
the  stability  of 
conditions  in  the  Sudan  and  throughout  the  vast 
African  continent.  We  welcome 
the  constructive 
attitude  demonstrated  by  the  Sudanese  and  other 
participants in the high-level meeting on the Sudan that 
was held here recently. 
In  Somalia,  the  confrontation  continues  between 

the Transitional Federal Government, supported by the 
international  community,  and  extremists  and  terrorist 
groups linked with Al-Qaida. The lack of a settlement 
on land is fuelling the problem of piracy off the coast 
of  Somalia.  A  more  resolute  pursuit  of  the  political 
process  and  stronger  assistance  to  the  peacekeeping 
operation  of  the  African  Union  and  further  counter-
piracy  efforts,  including  the  criminal  prosecution  of 
pirates,  are  priorities  in  international  efforts  on  the 
Somali 
recent  
mini-summit on Somalia, which Russia fully supports. 

The  results  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals summit have reaffirmed the important role of the 
United Nations on development matters and must help 
mobilize  political  support  and  financial  resources  for 
the 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  That  requires 
joint 
efforts  by  Governments,  international  financial  and 
trade  institutions,  the  private  sector  and  civil  society, 
based  on  the  principles  of  global  partnership  and 
shared responsibility. 

It is obvious that most global problems, including 
the  achievement  of  the  MDGs,  cannot  be  resolved 
without  engaging  innovations,  advanced  technologies 
and  modernization  solutions.  The  same  is  valid  for 
reiterated  during 
achievement 
track,  as 
timely 
of 
of 
the 
interests 
involving 
is  prepared 
forward.  This  year, 
such  challenges  as  climate  change,  energy  and  food 
security and the fight against diseases. The engagement 
of  the  enormous  potential  of  the  United  Nations,  its 
family  and system of specialized  agencies in this  area 
will allow the Organization to become a catalyst in the 
and  development  of  multilateral 
establishment 
modernization  alliances.  Russia 
to 
participate actively in that work. 

To live up to expectations, the United Nations must 
continuously renew itself. The reform of the Organization 
is  progressively  moving 
the 
negotiations  on  strengthening  system-wide  coherence 
were  completed  successfully.  In  particular,  the  new 
important United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and 
the Empowerment of Women has been established. 

Negotiations  will  continue  at  the  current  session 
of  the  General  Assembly  on  the  expansion  of  the 
composition  of  the  Security  Council.  This  is  an 
extremely important issue on the reform agenda of the 
Organization, 
the 
overwhelming  majority  of  States.  For  that  reason,  the 
final  formula  for  Security  Council  reform  should  be 
based  on  compromise  and 
the  broadest  possible 
agreement  in  the  United  Nations.  This  requirement  is 
also  fully  applicable  to  all  other  aspects  of  United 
Nations reform. 

This year marks the sixty-fifth anniversary of the 
United Nations, as well as that of the end of the Second 
World  War,  from  the  ashes  of  which  the  world 
Organization was born. For the sake of the memory of 
the  millions  of  victims  and  in  order  to  prevent  a 
repetition of such scourges, we must suppress attempts 
to  falsify  the  events  associated  with  that  historic 
calamity.  That  is  the  aim  of  a  well-known  Russian 
initiative  in  the  United  Nations.  We  count  on  the 
broadest support for a draft resolution on the topic. 

The  United  Nations  is  our  common  and  unique 
Organization.  It  is  up  to  all  of  us  to  determine  how 
productive and really useful its future work will be for 
humankind. By pulling our efforts together, we will be 
able  to  renew  the  United  Nations  effectively  and 
provide  it  with  all  the  necessary  resources.  We  are 
convinced that reasonable resources spent on that goal 
will  bring  tangible  dividends  to  all  members  of  the 
international community in the form of durable peace, 
security, cooperation and prosperity all over the globe. 

  The meeting rose at 12.30 p.m. 
32 

10-55396 
