
A/65/PV.7
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

7th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 22 September 2010, 9 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 
is 
accomplished 
in  biodiversity, 
the  product  of 
that  we  breathe 
jeopardizes 
achieving 
threatened  by  a  decline 
water due to a process of filtering through the soil. The 
oxygen 
the 
photosynthesis of algae and green plants.  

Today,  biodiversity  is  declining  throughout  the 
world, and humankind’s activities are to a large extent 
responsible.  Climate  change  is  further  worsening  the 
problem.  Moreover,  the  deterioration  of  many  vital 
the 
services  rendered  by  ecosystems 
progress 
towards 
the 
Millennium Development Goals. Indeed, while we are 
all 
the 
consequences  will  be  even  more  onerous  for  the 
poorest among us. Many areas rich in biodiversity are 
in  developing  countries,  the  people  of  which  are 
particularly  dependent  on  agriculture,  fishing  and 
forestry for their subsistence.  

It  is  heartening  to  note  that  the  international 
community  is  mobilizing  to  deal  with  this  threat. The 
adoption in 2002 of the 2010 biodiversity target was an 
important  milestone.  That  target,  which  was  also 
incorporated  into  the  Millennium  Development  Goal 
on  environment,  has  not  been  achieved,  but  many 
States  that  have  been  inspired  by  it  to  take  specific 
measures  to  protect  biodiversity.  Furthermore,  myriad 
initiatives  are  aimed  at  better  reconciling  biodiversity 
and economics and at assessing the economic value of 
services provided by ecosystems.  

A  better  awareness  of  the  cost  of  the  loss  of 
biodiversity  is  essential  if  our  actions  to  protect 
biodiversity are to be more effective. It is essential for 
companies  to  understand  the  benefits  of  biodiversity 





  The meeting was called to order at 9 a.m. 




to 
the  2010 
High-level plenary meeting as a contribution to the 
2010 International Year of Biodiversity 
Agenda item 20 
Sustainable development 
  (f)  Convention on Biological Diversity 
The President (spoke in French): I declare open 

the  one-day  high-level  plenary  meeting  as  a 
contribution 
International  Year  of 
Biodiversity, held in accordance with resolution 64/203 
of 21 December 2009 and decisions 64/555 of 15 April 
2010 and 64/567 of 13 September 2010.  

Biodiversity  is  at  the  very  heart  of  life.  In 
declaring  2010  the  International  Year  of  Biodiversity, 
the General Assembly launched an appeal to celebrate 
life  on  Earth  and  the  value  of  biodiversity.  The 
International Year of Biodiversity is an invitation to act 
this  year  and  in  the  years  to  come  to  safeguard  the 
biodiversity of life on Earth. I am very pleased that, at 
this beginning of the sixty-fifth session, we are holding 
a meeting of the General Assembly as a contribution to 
the  International  Year  of  Biodiversity,  and  I  welcome 
everyone most sincerely.  
Throughout  time,  biodiversity  has  been  essential 

to human existence, but it is often difficult to grasp its 
importance, and particularly of the risks run by losing 
it.  And  yet,  we  are  nourished  by  plants  and  animals, 
and  insects  carry  out  pollination  and  are  an  essential 
link  in  the  food  chain.  Rain  water  becomes  drinking 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-54515 (E) 
*1054515* 




to 
the 
response 
friendly  and 
A/65/PV.7 

and  move  towards  modes  of  production  that  are  more 
environmentally 
towards  a  green 
economy. We need to persevere in our efforts. 

Quite recently, last June in Busan in the Republic 
of  Korea,  the  international  community  decided  to 
establish an intergovernmental science-policy platform 
aimed  at  filling  the  gap  between  scientific  knowledge 
on the deterioration of the natural environment and the 
actions  of  Governments.  That  was 
a  major 
breakthrough  towards  organizing  a  consistent  and 
effective  multilateral 
loss  of 
biodiversity.  Next  month  in  Nagoya,  Japan,  the  tenth 
meeting  of  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
Convention  on  Biodiversity  will  be  held.  A  new 
strategic plan for the Convention will be adopted there. 
It  is  my  hope  that  our  discussions  today  at  this  high-
level  meeting  will  make  a  useful  contribution  to  the 
negotiations  to  be  undertaken  in  Nagoya  in  order  to 
ensure that the new plan will be exhaustive, ambitious 
and feasible. 

Preserving  biodiversity  is  inseparable  from  the 
fight against poverty, improving health, prosperity and 
security  of  present  and  future  generations,  as  well  as 
from  the  fight  against  climate  change.  Preserving 
biodiversity is not a luxury; it is a duty. 

General Ban Ki-moon.  
The  Secretary-General:  I  commend  the  General 

Assembly  for  convening 
this  high-level  meeting. 
Conserving  the  planet’s  species  and  habitats,  and  the 
goods  and  services 
to 
the  Millennium 
sustainable 
and 
Development  Goals.  This  year 
is  not  only 
the 
International  Year  of  Biodiversity;  it  is  also  the 
deadline  by  which  the  international  community  had 
pledged to substantially reduce the rate of biodiversity 
loss. The 2010 target will not be met. Indeed, as we see 
from the third edition of Global Biodiversity Outlook, 
issued  by  the  Convention  on  Biological  Diversity,  the 
global  decline  in  biodiversity  is  accelerating.  Science 
tells us that our actions have pushed extinctions up to 
1,000 times the natural background rate.  
The  reason  is  simple:  human  activities  —  yours, 

mine  and  everyone’s.  The  main  causes 
include 
deforestation, changes in habitat and land degradation. 
The growing impact of climate change is compounding 
the problem.  
I now give the floor to His Excellency Secretary-
they  provide, 
development 
is  central 
subsidy  provided  by 

As  with  most  emergencies,  those  hardest  hit  are 
the poor. We have all heard of the web of life. The way 
we  live  threatens  to  trap  us  in  a  web  of  death.  Too 
many people still fail to grasp the implications of this 
destruction. They do not see why we need to preserve 
an obscure frog here or an endangered owl there. Many 
still think that the Earth is ours to use as we like. 

This argument betrays a woeful ignorance of the 
importance  of  ecosystems  to  our  well-being  as  a 
species, to climate regulation, to water supplies and to 
food  security.  In  this  International  Year,  we  need  to 
demonstrate  the  concrete  benefits  of  investing  in 
biodiversity.  Ecosystem  services  are  directly  linked  to 
the bottom line. They are our natural capital. We need 
to show that protecting ecosystems can help us achieve 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  build 
resilience to climate change.  
All  over  the  world,  ecosystem  services  are  a 

massive  undervalued 
the 
environment.  When  we  lose  these  services  through 
mismanagement,  crops 
fail,  profits  drop,  people 
become  poorer  and  economies  suffer.  Let  us  think  of 
the  human  cost  of  deforestation  in  countries  such  as 
Haiti  and  Ethiopia  or  the  dust-bowl  in  this  country  in 
the 1930s.  

Last year’s financial crisis was a wake-up call to 
Governments  on  the  perils  of  failing  to  oversee  and 
regulate  complex  relationships  that  affect  us  all.  The 
biodiversity  crisis  is  no  different.  We  are  bankrupting 
our  natural  economy.  We  need  to  fashion  a  rescue 
package before it is too late.  

Next  month,  193  parties  to  the  Convention  on 
Biological Diversity will meet in Nagoya, Japan. They 
will  adopt  a  new  strategic  plan  on  biodiversity  and  a 
2050 
overarching 
international  biodiversity  framework  is  the  result  of  a 
comprehensive and inclusive two-year process. It calls 
for concrete national targets before the United Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  2012,  the 
engagement  of  all  stake-holders  and  the  inclusion  of 
biodiversity  considerations  across  all  sectors  of  our 
society.  It  includes  the  means  of  implementation,  as 
well as monitoring and evaluation mechanisms. It will 
address  the  important  issues  of  access  to  genetic 
resources  and  the  equitable  sharing  of  the  benefits 
derived from them.  

leadership 
It  is  a  solid  plan  on  paper,  but  it  will  need 
from 
biodiversity 
to  bring 
life,  not 
vision. 
This 
just 
to 
it 
2 

10-54515 
economic 
and 
the 
floor 
production 
I  now  give 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  thank  the 


environmental ministers but from finance and planning 
ministers, 
transport 
ministers,  and  health  and  social  welfare  ministers. 
Moreover,  we  must  stop  thinking  of  environmental 
protection as a cost. It is an investment that goes hand 
in hand with the other investments that heads of State 
and  Government  must  make  to  consolidate  economic 
growth  and  human  well-being  in  their  countries. 
Maintaining  and  restoring  our  natural  infrastructure 
can  provide  economic  gains  worth  trillions  of  dollars 
each  year.  Allowing  it  to  decline  is  like  throwing 
money out of the window.  

I  urge  all  leaders  present  today  to  commit  to 
reducing  biodiversity  loss.  That  will  be  their  legacy 
and their gift to generations to come. 

Secretary-General for his statement. 

to  His  Excellency 
Mr. Abdullah  Alsaidi,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Yemen to the United Nations. 
Mr. Alsaidi  (Yemen):  I  have  the  distinct  honour 

and  privilege  to  address  the  General  Assembly  on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China.  
This is the first time in the history of the United 

issue  of  biodiversity 
is  being 
Nations 
that 
addressed  at 
level  of  heads  of  State  and 
Government.  Our  meeting  today  provides  not  only  a 
unique opportunity to highlight the challenges we face, 
but also the opportunity that managing the resources of 
biodiversity  offers, 
to 
eradicating  poverty  and  improving  the  livelihood  of 
millions  of  people.  Biodiversity  is  a  key  element  of 
development.  
As the natural wealth of the poor, biodiversity is 

critical  to  developing  countries. The  poorest  and  most 
vulnerable 
in  developing  countries  depend  on 
biodiversity for a range of services — from health and 
nutrition  to  serving  as  a  safety-net  when  faced  with 
climate variability and natural disaster — and even for 
their 
time,  developing 
countries are a treasure trove of biodiversity and home 
to  some  of  the  rarest  and  most  unique  species  that  in 
turn hold valuable genetic resources. Today, species are 
disappearing  at  up 
the  natural 
background  rate  of  extinction,  undermining  nature’s 
ability  to  provide  us  with  the  good  services  we  so 
greatly depend on.  
in  particular  as 
livelihoods.  At 
the  same 
to  1,000 
times 
the 
the 
it  relates 
A/65/PV.7
to 
to 
important 
three  pillars  of 
increase  poverty 

It  is  the  poor  of  the  world  who  will  suffer  the 
most  if  we  do  not  stop  the  loss  of  our  biological 
resources, since the poor depend disproportionately on 
biodiversity for their day-to-day livelihoods. Continued 
biodiversity loss, including through unsustainable use, 
threatens 
and  undermine 
development. Biodiversity can no longer be seen as an 
issue  separate  from  efforts  to  tackle  poverty  and 
improve the health, wealth and security of present and 
future generations. This  can happen only if we  finally 
give biodiversity the priority it deserves.  

Now more than ever, the Group of 77 and China 
calls  for  the  urgent  implementation  of  the  three 
objectives  of 
the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
Biological  Diversity  in  a  mutually  supportive  manner. 
Indeed, the conservation of biological diversity cannot 
be  achieved  without  the  sustainable  use  and  fair  and 
equitable  sharing  of  the  benefits  arising  from  genetic 
resources.  Not  only  are  all 
the 
the  development  of 
Convention 
developing  countries,  but  they  also  provide  important 
tools  in  our  fight  against  poverty.  To  that  end,  an 
effective  international  framework  must  be  in  place  to 
ensure enhanced implementation of the three objectives 
of  the  main  multilateral  instrument  on  this  matter,  the 
Convention  on  Biological  Diversity.  These  objectives 
are  conservation,  the  sustainable  use,  and  the  fair, 
equitable  sharing  of  benefits  arising  from  the  use  of 
biodiversity.  

We  must  strengthen  global  partnerships  and 
international  commitment  to  ensure  that  owners  of 
biodiversity  resources  and  the  traditional  knowledge 
associated with them, which are mainly the developing 
countries,  receive  the  benefits  arising  from  the  use  of 
those  resources.  Furthermore,  developing  countries 
will  not  achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
without  addressing,  along  with 
the  developed 
countries,  the  international  threat  to  biodiversity,  in 
particular  the  misappropriation  of  genetic  resources 
and biopiracy.  

To  this  end,  the  adoption  of  the  protocol  on 
access  and  benefit  sharing  at  the  next  meeting  of  the 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Convention  on 
Biological Diversity, to be held next month in Nagoya, 
Japan,  is  of  strategic  importance. The  adoption  of  the 
protocol  will  be  key  to  the  success  of  the  new 
biodiversity strategic plan for 2011-2020 to be adopted 
in  Nagoya. This  new  biodiversity  vision  for  2050  and 
10-54515 

3 
to 
target 
require 
the  need 
to  underscore 
this  year’s  celebration  of 
A/65/PV.7 

the  2020  biodiversity 
the  urgent 
mobilization of new and additional financial resources.  

The success of the Aichi Nagoya summit will be 
the  best  gift 
the 
International Year of Biodiversity and a good omen for 
the  success  of 
the  United  Nations  decade  on 
biodiversity. However, the challenges of the continued 
loss  of  biodiversity,  compounded  by  climate  change, 
require the full engagement of all stakeholders, as well 
as  the  active  engagement  of  all  Governments  without 
exception.  The  Group  of  77  and  China  would  like  to 
reiterate its call on the sole remaining country that has 
yet  to  accede  to  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
Biological  Diversity  to  do  so  as  soon  as  possible. 
Indeed,  universal  participation  in  the  Convention  on 
life on Earth is an idea whose time has indeed come. 

The Convention on Biological Diversity will hold 
its  tenth  Conference  of  the  Parties  in  Nagoya  next 
October.  The  Group  of  77  and  China  takes  this 
opportunity 
for  great 
mobilization  and  political  will  so  that  we  will  be  able 
to adopt the protocol on access and benefit sharing and 
ensure  that  the  post-2010  targets  are  able  to  be  met 
through  new,  additional  and  sufficient 
financial 
resources and the transfer of technology to developing 
countries.  

At  the  Nagoya  Conference,  parties  are  expected 
to  boost  the  implementation  of  the  Convention.  The 
success  of  our  ongoing  commitment  to  the  cause  of 
biodiversity  will  rest  upon  ensuring  a  balanced  and 
effective outcome in Nagoya that will provide the tools 
for  addressing  the  challenges  facing  biodiversity.  In 
this  regard,  agreement  in  two  broad  areas  —  the 
successful  conclusion  of  negotiations  on  the  protocol 
on  access  and  benefit  sharing,  and  the  successful 
conclusion of the discussion on the post-2010 strategic 
plan  of  the  Convention  and  a  resource  mobilization 
to  a  successful 
strategy  — 
level  of 
implementation  of 
ambition 
reducing 
biodiversity  loss  in  this  plan  should  be  matched  by 
equal 
implement  such 
commitments. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  is  committed  to 
finalizing the draft multi-year plan of action for South-
South cooperation on biodiversity for development, as 
mandated by the ninth Conference of Parties, and calls 
on  all  parties  to  demonstrate  commitment  and  support 
the  Convention.  The 
for 
establishing 
targets  for 
the  means 
is  key 
leading 
targets 
to 
in 
to 

to 
secretariat 
the  Convention 
for  its  adoption  at  the  tenth  meeting  of  the  Parties  to 
the  Convention.  In  this  context,  we  welcome  the 
convening of the First South-South Cooperation Forum 
on Biodiversity for Development to be held in Nagoya, 
Japan,  on  17  October  2010.  We  also  express  our 
appreciation 
for 
establishing  a  strategic  partnership  with  the  Group  of 
77 and for its support in elaborating the multi-year plan 
of  action,  which  provides  a  unique  opportunity  to 
enhance  the  solidarity  and  global  cohesion  of  the 
Group in support of the new biodiversity strategy.  

More  than  ever,  the  establishment  of  a  global 
alliance  for  protecting  life  on  Earth  is  required.  This 
unique event offers us a unique opportunity as leaders 
of  the  world  to  provide  leadership  and  to  lead  by 
example for the benefit of life on Earth. The Group of 
77 and China is fully committed to playing its role and 
calls  on  its  partners,  as  well  as  the  United  Nations 
system, to support the new biodiversity strategy for the 
next  decade  so  as  to  ensure  that  our  children  will 
continue to benefit from the vital services provided by 
our planet. 

Finally, the Group of 77 and China looks forward 
to  the  successful  outcome  of  the  Nagoya  meeting  and 
reiterates that the post-2010 strategic plan, along with a 
strategy 
resource  mobilization  and  a  new 
international regime on access to genetic resources and 
the fair and equitable sharing of the benefits from their 
use, are indivisible components of an improved global 
that 
policy 
conserves 
components 
sustainably, and ensures that the benefits from the use 
of  the  genetic  resources  of  our  planet  are  shared 
equitably.  
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor to Her Excellency Ms. Izabella Teixeira, Minister 
of the Environment of Brazil. 
Ms. Teixeira (Brazil): In 2006, Brazil hosted the 

eighth Conference of the Parties to the Convention on 
Biological Diversity. For us, that initiative was steeped 
in political and symbolic meaning, given the enormous 
responsibility  Brazil  has  towards  biodiversity.  As  a 
megadiverse  country,  Brazil  is  aware  of  the  strategic 
value  of  biodiversity  and  of  the  attention  and  urgency 
we  should  dedicate  to  it.  Most  scientists,  politicians, 
business people and civil society understand the role of 
biodiversity as the basis for sustainability. For no other 
purpose  did  the  General  Assembly  adopt  resolution 
for  biodiversity  policy 
biodiversity, 
framework 
uses 
for 
its 
4 

10-54515 


62/203,  declaring  2010  the  International  Year  of 
Biodiversity, and for no other reason do we meet here 
today.  

This is definitely the time to transform our words 
and  political  discussions  into  action.  We  should  pave 
the way for a more sustainable society, since what we 
have  at  present  is  quite  a  disturbing  picture.  We  have 
been  unable  to  reduce  the  rate  or  speed  of  the  loss  of 
biodiversity,  as  called  for  in  the  2002  Johannesburg 
Plan  of  Implementation.  Not  only  has  there  been  an 
absence of relevant signs of a reduction in biodiversity 
loss,  but  indicators  portray  a  growing  deterioration  of 
biodiversity worldwide. 

One of the key messages of the 2005 Millennium 
Ecosystem Assessment was that, over the past century, 
certain  economic  sectors  have  benefited  from  the 
conversion  of  natural  ecosystems  and  the  exploitation 
of biodiversity. But these  gains have been achieved  at 
the  cost  of  increasing  losses  to  biodiversity,  the 
degradation  of  ecosystem  services,  and  an  increase  in 
and spread of poverty. We need strong and determined 
responses and political will to change this scenario, in 
particular 
the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  2012.  The 
conservation  and 
sustainable  use  of  biological 
resources  are  crucial  not  only  to  ensuring  continued 
benefits to local and indigenous communities, but also 
to  creating  opportunities  for  sustainable  development 
and poverty eradication for all. 

Brazil  is  doing  its  part.  According  to  the  latest 
edition of Global Biodiversity Outlook, Brazil is one of 
the  few  countries  to  have  contributed  to  clearing  up 
this  picture.  Under  President  Lula’s  leadership,  Brazil 
has  achieved  significant  results.  We  have  created  the 
greatest number of new protected areas in recent years 
and  have  managed 
lows 
deforestation  rates  in  the  Amazon  region.  But  much 
remains to be done. 

I  should  highlight  the  important  outcome  we 
reached  in  South  Korea  for  the  establishment  of  the 
intergovernmental 
on 
biodiversity  and  ecosystem  services.  By  creating 
adequate  links  between  science,  policymaking  and 
capacity-building through the provision of credible and 
relevant 
ecosystem 
services,  the  platform  will  improve  our  understanding 
of  the  need  for  immediate  action  against  the  loss  of 
biodiversity, as well as of the consequences of inaction.  
information  on  biodiversity 
science-policy 
to  historical 
the  run-up 
to  reduce 
in 
to 
platform 
A/65/PV.7
fundamental 
to  overcoming 
technology.  These 

The  lasting  success  of  our  efforts  will  rest  on 
decisions  to  be  taken  at  the  tenth  meeting  of  the 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Convention  on 
Biological  Diversity 
in  Nagoya.  We  have  been 
negotiating  a  protocol  on  access  and  benefit  sharing 
that  will  be 
the 
implementation  deficit  of  the  Convention  and  to 
combating  biopiracy.  We  have  been  discussing  a  new 
strategic  plan  for  the  period  post-2010  and  a  new 
strategy for resource mobilization. A central part of our 
future efforts must include support for national agendas 
to  reach  targets  on  biodiversity,  ensuring  country 
ownership and supported by predictable, additional and 
sufficient  resources  and 
three 
elements — the protocol on access and benefit sharing, 
the  strategic  plan  and  the  new  strategy  for  resource 
mobilization  —  are  part  of  an  indivisible  package  for 
the  tenth  meeting  of  the  Conference.  They  should  be 
considered, discussed and negotiated with the attention 
and urgency that the matter deserves. 

If  there  is  one  reason  for  discussing  the  issue  of 
biodiversity at a high level, as we are doing here today, 
it  should  be  to  rescue  the  spirit  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development, which led to 
such  significant  results  as 
the 
Convention  on  Biological  Diversity.  I  call  on  all  to 
renew  that  same  sentiment  of  commitment,  political 
will, and ethical-moral responsibility for the well-being 
of current and future generations.  

We  need  a  deal  in  Nagoya.  The  news  from 
Montreal was a sign that we are quite far from a deal. 
Some  countries  are  not  fully  committed 
to  an 
agreement on access and benefit sharing. At this high-
level  meeting,  we  should 
the  profile  of 
raise 
biodiversity  and  galvanize 
the  political  will  and 
engagement  of  all  countries  in  support  of  this  call  for 
action. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor to His Excellency Mr. Norbert Roettgen, Federal 
Minister for the Environment, Nature Conservation and 
Nuclear Safety of Germany. 
Mr.  Roettgen  (Germany):  In  this  International 

Year of Biodiversity, the loss of species and habitats is 
continuing  at  a  dramatic  pace.  Second  by  second, 
minute  by  minute,  we  are  destroying  the  natural 
foundations of our lives. During the time of my speech 
alone,  the  equivalent  of  170  football  fields  will  have 
been deforested. More than 900 tons of fish will have 
the  adoption  of 
10-54515 

5 

is  vital 
A/65/PV.7 

been taken from the world’s oceans. One more species 
might even have vanished from our planet forever.  

And  we  let  it  happen.  We  let  it  happen  even 
though we value these plants and animals as part of our 
world,  and  even  though  we  know  that  biological 
diversity 
to  feeding  humans.  Biological 
diversity  is  the  foundation  of  our  very  own  survival. 
Every day, without a second thought, we use numerous 
services provided by nature and thus by biodiversity — 
clean  air  and  water,  fertile  soils,  pollinating  insects, 
natural  coastal  protection,  and  carbon  dioxide  storage 
in  forests,  wetlands,  soils  and  the  seas.  Conserving 
biological  diversity  is  not  a  luxury;  it  is  a  necessary 
insurance  and  an  investment  in  our  future  and  our 
lives.  

The conservation of biological diversity does not 
yet receive the same amount of attention as the issue of 
climate  change,  but  attention  is  a  precondition  for 
political  action.  Conserving  biological  diversity 
worldwide  requires  committed  and  long-term  action. 
And  it  requires  cooperation  among  the  international 
community.  
At today’s high-level meeting, let us send a signal 

and make a global pact for biological diversity. Let us 
do  so  by  recognizing  the  value  of  biological  diversity 
for human well-being and for the global economy and 
by 
into  our  economic  policies, 
instruments and accounting; by massively reducing our 
ecological footprint and restructuring production, trade 
and  consumption;  by  making  greater  use  of  biological 
diversity  as  a  basis  for  sustainable  innovations,  and 
ensuring  equitable  sharing  of  the  benefits  resulting 
from the use of genetic resources; by strengthening the 
global  network  of  protected  areas,  especially  those  at 
sea,  to  give  nature  the  space  to  retreat;  by  improving 
the  knowledge  of  biological  diversity  and  making  it 
available  to  political  decision-makers  in  a  suitable 
form;  and,  not  least,  by  strengthening  the  financial 
foundations  for 
the 
national and international levels. 

In  the  framework  of  our  presidency  of  the  ninth 
meeting  of  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
Convention  on  Biological  Diversity,  we  have  striven 
together  with  all  our  partners  actively  to  promote  this 
process. Most recently in Geneva, in an unprecedented 
meeting  with  the  previous  and  future  presidencies  of 
the  Conference  of  the  Parties,  we  adopted  a  call  for 
action  addressed  to  the  participants  here  today.  In  the 
these  challenges  at 
integrating 
tackling 
it 
is  being 
rate.  Currently,  swathes  of 
Mr.  Maehara  (Japan)  (spoke 
spirit of that call for action, let us lay the foundations 
here  in  New York  and  at  the  upcoming  tenth  meeting 
Conference of the Parties to halt the loss of biological 
diversity in the coming decade. Let us follow the path 
of biodiversity — a path lined with forests and oceans 
and the most diverse and vibrant life forms our planet 
has to offer for our joy and for our children’s survival. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor to His Excellency Mr. Seiji Maehara, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Japan. 
in  Japanese; 

English interpretation provided by the delegation): On 
the occasion of this important meeting today, I express 
my  heartfelt  appreciation 
to  you,  Sir,  for  your 
leadership.  

At  present  many  species  on  Earth,  which  has 
sustained  life  for  more  than  four  billion  years,  are 
lost  at  an 
dying  out  and  biodiversity 
unprecedented 
forest 
equivalent  to  one-third  of  the  area  of  Japan  are 
vanishing  from  Earth  every  year.  If  the  destruction  of 
the ecosystem continues at this pace, in the near future 
mankind  could  lose  most  of  nature’s  bounty  for  all 
eternity.  If  that  should  happen,  we  will  not  be  able  to 
pass  on  the  blessings  of  nature  to  future  generations. 
As 
International  Year  of 
Biodiversity,  we  should  understand  that  the  loss  of 
biodiversity has been caused by none other than human 
activities. We now need to be aware that we must take 
new action and change our behaviour so as to halt this 
loss. 

In  October,  Japan  will  host  the  tenth  meeting  of 
the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Convention  on 
Biological  Diversity  in  Nagoya  city, Aichi  prefecture, 
aimed  at  achieving  a  global  agreement  on  launching 
new  actions.  One  of  the  main  objectives  of  the 
Conference  is  to  set  global  targets  for  2020  and  2050 
as  common  guidelines 
formulating  national 
strategies.  It  is  important  that  we  paint  a  clear  picture 
of  the  concerted  action  to  be  taken  over  the  next  10 
years so that coming generations will be able to enjoy 
the blessings of nature.  
At  the  tenth  meeting  of  the  Conference,  we  will 

also negotiate with a view to reaching agreement on a 
new  international  regime  in  the  area  of  access  and 
benefit sharing as related to genetic resources, as well 
as on international rules with regard to living modified 
organisms.  In  particular,  negotiations  on  access  and 
this  year  marks 
the 
for 
6 

10-54515 


benefit  sharing  could  be  affected  by  the  differing 
interests  of 
the  users  and  suppliers  of  genetic 
resources.  However,  if  the  parties  can  agree  on  a  new 
regime,  it  could  be  an  epoch-making  agreement  to 
facilitate  the  flow  of  funds  for  habitat  conservation, 
and  thus  contribute  to  the  benefit  of  the  entire  planet. 
Japan  will  do  its  utmost  as  Chair  to  ensure  that 
agreements are reached on these issues at the meeting, 
and we request the support of all parties concerned. 

Japan  will  contribute  to  global  efforts,  acting  on 
its own innovative initiative. First, Japan proposes the 
adoption of a resolution on a United Nations decade of 
biodiversity  at  this  session  of  the  General  Assembly. 
The  resolution  would  call  for 
the  promotion  of 
concerted  action  over  the  next  10  years,  not  only 
within  the  framework  of  the  Convention,  but  also 
throughout  the  entire  United  Nations  system.  Japan 
will  also  strive  for  the  adoption  at  this  session  of  a 
resolution  on  the  intergovernmental  science-policy 
platform on biodiversity and ecosystem services. Once 
established,  the  platform  is  expected  to  provide  a 
scientific  basis  for  biodiversity  conservation  policies 
and to lead to a broad understanding of the importance 
of such policies. 

Japan  will  also  lead  international  efforts  in 
promoting  conservation  and  the  sustainable  use  of  the 
natural  environment  in  regions  that  have  been  created 
through  such  human  activities  as  agriculture,  forestry 
and fisheries. Japan will propose this approach, which 
we  refer  to  as  the  Satoyama  initiative,  at  the  tenth 
meeting  of  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
Convention  on  Biological  Diversity,  with  a  view  to 
enabling  the  experiences  and  practices  developed  in 
different 
shared 
internationally. Japan will put to good use its expertise 
and experience in supporting other countries.  

In  addition,  Japan  intends  to  propose  assistance 
measures to support developing countries in the steady 
formulation and implementation of national strategies, 
if a global common target is agreed upon at meeting of 
the  Conference.  In  consultation  with  other  countries, 
Japan  will  consider  appropriate  measures  that  will 
exploit its knowledge and technologies. 

Japan  has  long  valued  living  in  harmony  with 
nature  through  the  ingenious  utilization  of  nature’s 
abundant  gifts  in  our  daily  lives  and  activities. As  the 
Earth and humankind are in crisis caused by the loss of 
biodiversity, we are urged to address the root cause by 
regions  of 
the  world 
to  be 
A/65/PV.7
making  our  lifestyles  and  behaviour  more  harmonious 
with nature. By taking advantage of our experience in 
living  with  nature,  Japan  is  committed  to  being  at  the 
forefront  of  the  global  action  to  be  initiated  at  the 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Convention  on 
Biological  Diversity.  I  looking  forward  to  seeing  all 
present here again and to engaging in discussions with 
them  at  that  meeting,  which  will  be  held  under  the 
theme “Living in harmony with nature”.  
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor to His Excellency José Manuel Barroso, President 
of the European Commission, who will speak on behalf 
of the European Union. 
Mr. Barroso (European Union): On behalf of the 

European  Union,  I  have  the  honour  to  speak  today  in 
this  meeting,  which  is  a  very  important,  unique  and 
welcome  opportunity  to  celebrate  the  International 
Year of Biodiversity. It is  also perhaps  one of the last 
opportunities  to  exchange  views  before  the  Nagoya 
meeting, at which important decisions will be taken to 
set the  course of global biodiversity  policy and  action 
for the next decade. 
It  is  significant  that  our  meeting  today  should 

coincide  with  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  summit.  Biodiversity  and 
the  ecosystem 
services it provides cut across many of the MDGs, and 
not just one. Our ability to end poverty and hunger and 
improve  child  and  maternal  health  depends  on  the 
long-term  availability  of 
food, 
medicine  and  raw  materials  that  nature  provides. This 
comprehensive  and  holistic  approach  makes  it  also 
clear  that  the  €1-billion  MDG  initiative  I  announced 
here  two  days  ago  can  also  benefit  biodiversity.  It  is 
also  clear  that  we  will  not  be  able  to  mitigate  climate 
change  or  adapt 
to  prevent 
desertification  and  land  degradation,  if  we  do  not 
protect  our  ecosystems  and  biodiversity.  And  yet, 
despite these interlinkages, we have collectively failed 
to  reach  our  2010  biodiversity  target.  Instead,  we 
continue 
lose  biodiversity  worldwide  at  an 
unprecedented rate. 

We  are  standing  at  a  crossroads.  Either  we  take 
concerted action to reverse biodiversity loss as soon as 
possible, or we compromise our own future and that of 
generations not yet born. Nagoya is our chance to turn 
the situation around. It is our chance to make decisions 
that  will  strengthen 
the 
Convention’s three key objectives.  
implementation  of 
fresh  water, 
impacts,  or 
the 
to 
the 
to 
its 
10-54515 

7 

transparency, 
is  supported  by  all 
A/65/PV.7 


First,  it  is  important  that  we  adopt  a  new  and 
effective  strategic  plan  that  encourages  collective 
action  and 
those  who  use 
biodiversity and whose activities have an impact on it. 
This  plan  must  be  sufficiently  ambitious  to  force  all 
parties to the Convention to raise their game, to tackle 
the  key  drivers  of  biodiversity  loss,  and  to  prevent 
ecological tipping points from being reached. 

Secondly, it is important that we finally conclude 
negotiations  on  the  protocol  on  access  and  benefit 
sharing, as we have pledged to do on several occasions. 
The  protocol  should  ensure 
legal 
certainty and predictability for those seeking access to 
genetic  resources,  as  well  as  the  fair  and  equitable 
sharing  of  the  benefits  derived  from  them.  I  am 
reassured by the spirit of collaboration and partnership 
exhibited during the negotiations in Montreal in recent 
days. However, hard work is still ahead of us if we are 
to  find  answers  to  the  unresolved  questions. Agreeing 
on a meaningful protocol will require the full political 
commitment  of  all  parties  and  the  willingness  to 
compromise. 

Thirdly, it is important that we agree on how best 
to build  capacity and mobilize  resources — scientific, 
technological,  human  and  financial  —  to  enable  all 
parties  to  implement  their  commitments  under  the 
Convention.  The  European  Union  has  committed,  as 
part  of  its  2020  biodiversity  target,  to  step  up  its 
contribution to averting global biodiversity loss. From 
2002  to  2008,  we  provided  more  than  $1  billion 
annually for global biodiversity. In addition, European 
Union  member  States  contributed  significantly  to  the 
recent  replenishment  of 
the  Global  Environment 
Facility,  of  which  $1.2  billion  is  earmarked  for 
biodiversity.  That  represents  a  28  per  cent  increase 
compared to the last replenishment.  

additional  public  finance 
to  further  enhance 
implementation  of  our  commitments  under 

Of course, there  are other ways beyond new and 
the 
the  
Convention. We need to explore  all options, including 
the  reform,  elimination  and  reorientation  of  subsidies 
harmful  to  biodiversity,  and  private  funding  such  as 
payments  for  ecosystem  services  and  other  market-
based instruments. The European Union is prepared to 
work  together  with  all  parties  to  improve  and  ensure 
long-term  sustainable  support  for  implementation.  But 
it  is  also  our  view  that  this  responsibility  should  be 
shared  by  all  parties.  Indeed,  increased  efforts  are 
needed  on  the  part  of  all  of  us  to  ensure  that 
biodiversity  objectives  are  given  sufficient  priority  in 
Government plans and programmes.  

The  messages  in  the  international  study  on  the 
economics  of  ecosystems  and  biodiversity  are  clear. 
Valuing  biodiversity  and  ecosystem  services  should 
come  naturally.  After  all,  investing  in  biodiversity  is 
not  a  luxury;  it  is  a  sound  investment  that  can  bring 
multiple benefits. 

Let  me  conclude  by  saying  that  the  European 
Union  welcomes  the  decision  reached  in  the  Republic 
of  Korea  last  June  on  the  need  to  establish  an 
intergovernmental 
on 
biodiversity  and  ecosystem  services. We  look  forward 
to a positive decision by the General Assembly before 
the  end  of  the  year  on  establishing  this  important 
platform in 2011. 

the last speaker for this meeting.  

remind 
representatives  that  the  thematic  panel  “The  way 
forward  in  achieving  the  three  objectives  of  the 
Convention 
the 
internationally  agreed  biodiversity  goals  and  targets” 
will  take  place,  immediately  following  this  plenary 
meeting,  in  Conference  Room  2  of  the  North  Lawn 
Building. 

discussion. 

The President (spoke in French): We have heard 
I  wish  all  participants  a  most  productive  panel 
on  Biological  Diversity 
The meeting rose at 10 a.m. 
science-policy 
Before  adjourning 
this  meeting, 
I 
platform 
and 
8 

10-54515 
