
A/65/PV.18
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

18th plenary meeting 
Saturday, 25 September 2010, 6 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss 


. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 

The meeting was called to order at 6.30 p.m. 






High-level Review Meeting on the implementation of 
the Mauritius Strategy for the Further Implementation 
of the Programme of Action for the Sustainable 
Development of Small Island Developing States 
Agenda item 20 (continued) 
Sustainable development 
  (b)  Follow-up to and implementation of the 
Mauritius Strategy for the Further 
Implementation of the Programme of Action for 
the Sustainable Development of Small Island 
Developing States:  
  Draft resolution (A/65/L.2) 


The  President  (spoke  in  French):  This  is  the 
closing  plenary  of  the  High-level  Review  Meeting  on 
the  implementation  of  the  Mauritius  Strategy  for  the 
Further  Implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action 
for  the  Sustainable  Development  of  Small  Island 
Developing  States.  I  would  like  to  welcome,  once 
again,  all of  our guests  who have joined us today. We 
have had two full days of rich discussions. 

I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  Deputy  Secretary-
General,  Her  Excellency  Ms. Asha-Rose  Migiro,  who 
will  present  a  summary  of  the  round  tables  and 
interactive  dialogue  that  took  place  over  the  past  two 
days. 
The  Deputy  Secretary-General:  On  behalf  of 

the  Secretary-General,  I  am  pleased  to  address  the 
closing  plenary  of  this  High-level  Review  Meeting  on 
the Mauritius Strategy. 
I  congratulate  all  participants  on  the  productive 

and thought-provoking discussions they held during the 
multi-stakeholder round tables and interactive dialogue 
of  the  past  two  days.  The  discussions  reflect  the 
renewed commitment of small island developing States 
(SIDS)  to  address  their  vulnerabilities  and  build 
resilience through sustainable development.  

I  also  commend  the  international  community  for 
its  continuing  determination  to  support  SIDS  in  this 
endeavour.  I  am  very  encouraged  by  the  action-
oriented  suggestions  we  have  heard.  It  is  now  my 
pleasure to  provide a  brief  overview of the key issues 
that were discussed during these past two days. 

The Review  Meeting reaffirmed the need for the 
international  community  to  continue  to  address  and 
support  the  unique  and  particular  vulnerabilities  of 
SIDS, which were recognized at the Rio Earth Summit 
in 1992 and underscored in Barbados in 1994 and again 
in Mauritius five years ago. 

in 
progress 
implementing  the  Mauritius  Strategy,  which  is  directly 
linked to achieving the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs).  However,  renewed  efforts  are  needed  to  live 
up  to  promises  and  commitments  made  in  the  recent 
past. Economic, environmental and social vulnerabilities 
have further worsened in the past 10 years. As a result, 
the  economic  development  and  progress  of  SIDS  in 
achieving the MDGs are threatened by external shocks, 
including  the  adverse  impacts  of  the  global  financial, 
been  made 
Substantial 
has 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-55116 (E) 
*1055116* 

SIDS 
have 
strong 

including 
enhancing 
to  SIDS, 
demonstrated 
strategic  partnerships 
A/65/PV.18 

food and fuel crises. Climate change further exacerbates 
these  vulnerabilities,  leaving  the  viability  and  very 
physical existence of some SIDS at stake. 

political 
commitment  to  continuing  to  do  their  part  in  building 
resilience  to  their  special  vulnerabilities.  However, 
there is a clear need to bridge gaps in implementation 
with  coordinated  and  sustainable  support  from  the 
international community. 

this  High-level  Review 
Discussions  during 
Meeting  highlighted  a  number  of  priorities,  including 
defining measurable goals and indicators for monitoring 
and  evaluation,  and  strengthening  capacities  for  data 
collection  and  analysis;  scaling  up  resources  made 
available 
for  meeting  new 
challenges; 
and 
monitoring  and  coordination  mechanisms,  especially  at 
the regional level and within the United Nations system, 
through,  for  example,  the  United  Nations  Development 
Assistance  Framework  and 
the  Commission  on 
Sustainable  Development;  strengthening  South-South 
cooperation,  including  among  SIDS;  and  placing  a 
special  focus  on  a  number  of  sub-areas,  including 
climate  change  mitigation  and  adaptation,  biodiversity, 
natural disasters, sustainable energy, transport and trade, 
marine and coastal resources, fisheries, tourism, finance 
and debt sustainability. 

Highly  vulnerable  SIDS  face  a  number  of 
practical  challenges,  and  yet  are  often  not  eligible  for 
special financing or other resources. In this respect, the 
discussion  today  highlighted  the  need  to  develop  a 
SIDS  vulnerability  index.  Middle-income  SIDS  face 
special  challenges  in  the  absence  of  international 
support  measures  commensurate  with 
their  high 
vulnerability.  In  this  context,  it  was  felt  by  many 
discussants  that  consideration  should  be  given  to 
exploring  formal  United  Nations  recognition  of  SIDS 
as  a  special  category,  to  be  tied  to  preferential 
treatment  and  access  to  concessionary  financing,  debt 
relief,  trade,  special  programmes  and  development 
assistance,  without  prejudice  to  the  needs  of  other 
vulnerable economies. 

The  review  also  highlighted  shortcomings  in 
institutional  support  for  SIDS  and  constraints  to  the 
implementation  of  the  Mauritius  Strategy  and  the 
Barbados  Programme  of  Action.  A  comprehensive 
review  of  the  Strategy  and  concrete  recommendations 
for action are needed. 
look  forward 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  thank  the 

Participants have demonstrated their commitment 
to  advancing  the  implementation  of  the  Mauritius 
Strategy towards the sustainable development of SIDS. 
They  have  agreed  on  key  priorities  for  action  and 
proposed suggestions on the way forward. 

The  United  Nations,  in  partnership  with  the 
members  of  the  Inter-agency  Consultative  Group  on 
Small  Island  Developing  States,  which  includes  all 
United  Nations  agencies  and  other  intergovernmental 
and  regional  organizations,  is  committed  to  providing 
strong,  coherent  and  coordinated  support  to  these 
efforts. 

The  issues  facing  SIDS  are  truly  global  issues 
that  affect  us  all.  Let  us  work  together  to  make  small 
island  developing  States  a  model  for  sustainable 
development  with  lessons  and  benefits  for  all.  The 
Secretary-General  and  I 
to  seeing 
participants’ continuing commitment and leadership in 
action. 

Deputy Secretary-General for her statement. 

The Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution A/65/L.2, entitled “Outcome document of the 
High-level  Review  Meeting  on  the  implementation  of 
the  Mauritius  Strategy  for  the  Further  Implementation 
of  the  Programme  of  Action  for  the  Sustainable 
Development of Small Island Developing States”. 

draft resolution A/65/L.2? 

Draft resolution A/65/L.2 was adopted (resolution 
65/2). 
The President (spoke in French): I am personally 

very  happy  that  this  Meeting  has  enabled  Member 
States 
their  political  and  financial 
commitment to addressing the special vulnerabilities of 
the  small  island  developing  States.  The  sustainable 
development  of  those  States  is  inextricably  linked  to 
the sustainable development of all Member States. We 
have  only  one  planet,  and  we  must  be  united  to 
preserve it and to live in harmony. It is my hope that, in 
the  months  and  years  to  come,  States  Members  of 
United Nations will work together to this end. We will 
thus  show  that  we  all  share  a  common  vision  of  a 
world where the well-being of each and every one of us 
depends on the well-being of all.  
May  I  take  it  that  the Assembly  wishes  to  adopt 
to  reconfirm 
2 

10-55116 



I  would  like  to  express  sincere  appreciation  to 
Ms.  Sylvie  Lucas,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Luxembourg, and Mr. Vanu Gopala Menon, Permanent 
Representative  of  Singapore,  who  effectively  and 
patiently  conducted 
the  discussions  and  complex 
negotiations  in  the  consultations  on  resolution  65/2.  I 
also  thank  all  Member  States  for  their  valuable 
contributions,  without  which  the  outcome  document 
could not have been successfully completed. 
A/65/PV.18
for 
the  Further 
Implementation  of 

I  now  declare  closed  the  High-level  Review 
Meeting  on  the  implementation  of  the  Mauritius 
Strategy 
the 
Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development 
of Small Island Developing States. 

consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda item 20. 

The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
The meeting rose at 6.40 p.m.
10-55116 

3 
