
A/65/PV.43
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

43rd plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 3 November 2010, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 








  In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Ntwaagae 
(Botswana), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m. 

Agenda item 63 (continued)
Report of the Human Rights Council 



  Report of the Human Rights Council (A/65/53 
and Corr.1 and A/65/53/Add.1) 
Mr.  Leucă
(Republic  of  Moldova):  The 

delegation of the Republic of Moldova associates itself 
with  the  statement  delivered  earlier  today  by  the 
representative  of  Belgium  on  behalf  of  the  European 
Union.  I  should  now  like  to  add  some  remarks  in  my 
national capacity. 
First,  I  would  like  to  thank Ambassador  Sihasak 

Phuangketkeow,  President  of 
the  Human  Rights 
Council, for introducing the Council’s report (A/65/53 
and A/65/53/Add.1)  to  the  General Assembly,  as  well 
as  to  congratulate Ambassador  Ivan  Šimonović  on  his 
assignment  as Assistant  Secretary-General  for  Human 
Rights to lead the Office of the High Commissioner for 
Human  Rights  in  New  York.  Their  leadership  in 
managing  the  complexity  of  human  rights  activities 
and  instruments  under  the  United  Nations  umbrella  is 
of great importance for the effective realization of the 
goals  of  the  Council,  as  voiced  and  shared  by  all 
Member States. 

the  diversity  and 
The report of the Human Rights Council reflects 
the  human  rights 
intricacy  of 
through 
situations in various States, as well as the multiple and 
sustained  measures  undertaken  both  by  Governments 
and the United Nations system to improve and promote 
human  rights  around  the  world.  The  Council  has 
registered  considerable  progress 
thematic 
resolutions  related  to  torture,  human  trafficking,  the 
rights  of  the  child  and  violence  against  women  that 
have  a  positive  impact  on  the  ground.  These  policies 
will be supported by every country, and jointly by the 
international community. 
One of the recent accomplishments of the Human 

Rights  Council  was  the  consensus  adoption  of  the 
United  Nations  declaration  on  human  rights  education 
and  training,  initiated  by  the  Platform  on  Human 
Rights  Education  and  Training.  We  hope  that  this 
declaration  will  serve  as  an  important  engine  for  the 
implementation of the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights  and  as  a  practical 
for  promoting 
understanding  and  disseminating  information  about 
human rights. 

Although  since  its  establishment,  in  2006,  the 
credibility  and  capacity  of  the  Council  to  address 
human rights issues at the global level effectively and 
without selectively has been subjected to controversial 
debates  on  several  occasions,  the  Human  Rights 
Council  has  proved  its  relevance  and  vital  role  in 
promoting  the  fundamental  values  of  human  rights 
enshrined  in  the  United  Nations  Charter.  We  believe 
that 
become  more 
constructive  and  that,  in  the  framework  of  the  review 
process,  we  have  to  strike  a  sensible  balance  between 
what has been accomplished already and the gaps and 
discussions 
should 
these 
tool 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-61876 (E) 
*1061876* 


My  country  has 
implementation  of 
the  application  of  new  and 
A/65/PV.43 

limitations  we  must  overcome  in  order  to  achieve  the 
commitments articulated in resolution 60/251. 

As  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  the 
Republic  of  Moldova  strongly  advocates  in  favour  of 
the  appropriate 
the  Council’s 
institution-building  package,  adopted  in  2007,  along 
with 
transformative 
elements of the Universal Periodic Review Mechanism, 
the Advisory Committee, the complaints procedure and 
the  special  procedure  mechanisms.  These  instruments 
are  essential  for  the  prevention  of  human  rights 
violations and for carrying out country evaluations and 
advancing  tailored  recommendations.  The  interactive 
dialogue  with  Special  Rapporteurs, 
concluded 
yesterday  in  the  Third  Committee,  confirmed  the 
valuable  inputs  brought  by  the  special  procedure 
mechanism for the protection of human rights and the 
increasing  interest  of  Member  States  to  cooperate  and 
work closely with the special mandate holders. 

its  own  experience  of 
cooperating  under  the  special  procedures  with  the 
Special Rapporteur on torture and other cruel, inhuman 
or  degrading  treatment  or  punishment  and  the  Special 
Rapporteur  on  violence  against  women,  who  visited 
Moldova  in  2008  and  2009  upon  the  invitation  of  the 
Government. We  are  pleased  that  this  exercise  was  of 
benefit to the Government in helping to highlight areas 
where additional resources, capacity-building activities 
and  the  adoption  of  relevant  laws  were  required.  The 
commitment  of  my  Government  to  further  increase 
cooperation  under  special  procedures  resulted  in  the 
extension  of  a  standing  invitation  to  the  relevant 
mandate  holders,  as  we  entrusted  them  with  the 
important 
role  of  safeguarding,  monitoring  and 
advising on the human rights agenda. In the same vein, 
we will present our national report under the Universal 
Periodic Review Mechanism in 2011. 

in  accurately  carrying  out 
special  procedures  include  the  requirements  to  strictly 
follow 
rely  on  existing 
instruments and standards in the field of human rights 
and  pursue  country  assessments  and  reporting  in 
accordance with those directives. That must be done to 
ensure that the mechanism does not go beyond existing 
regulations  or  alter  the  meaning  and  the  aim  of  the 
special procedures. 

While special mandate holders’ recommendations 
are important for the streamlining of the human rights 
the  mandates  assigned, 
Important  factors 
for 
for 
their 
and 
support 
time, 
strengthening 
the  Mechanism 
the  Council  and 
follow-up  mechanism 
rights  while  preserving 
protection agenda, it is equally essential to put in place 
the  elaboration  of 
a 
guidelines 
practical 
implementation.  In  this  respect,  we  envisage  close 
cooperation  between 
the  High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  to  assist  States  in 
upholding  human 
the 
independence of the High Commissioner, in conformity 
with the mandate adopted by the General Assembly in 
resolution 48/141. 

The  implementation  of  the  Universal  Periodic 
Review  Mechanism  as  a  unique  tool  to  review  the 
human rights record of each Member State is currently 
the  pre-eminent  State-driven  process  whereby  all 
countries  are  treated  equally  and  on  the  basis  of 
objective  and  consistent  reporting  information. At  the 
same 
and 
enhancing  the  High  Commissioner’s  role  in  building 
national  capabilities  for  the  implementation  of  action-
oriented  recommendations  is  the  key  modality  to 
accelerate and improve the functioning of the Council. 
Accordingly,  while  assessing  the  performance  of  the 
Council,  it  is  essential  to  streamline  the  Mechanism’s 
review  sessions  to  ensure  more  constructive  and 
substantial  discussions  by  Member  States.  Moreover, 
provided  that  in  2011  the  Council  will  have  reviewed 
the  human  rights  records  of  every  country,  we  will 
need to consider measures to help States to implement 
the  recommendations  emanating  from  the  review,  as 
well as international instruments in the field of human 
rights,  through  technical  assistance,  best  practices  and 
lessons learned. 

Along the same lines, we consider it necessary to 
generate more synergy between the Council and United 
Nations  human  rights  agencies  and  instruments  in 
order to avoid duplication of activities and projects in 
the  field.  Ensuring  cohesion  in  the  United  Nations 
system  in  this  area  is  a  complex  exercise,  but  it  is  of 
great  importance  for  strong  United  Nations  human 
rights action  to meet the expectations of peoples. It is 
therefore  up  to  us  to  encourage  all  Member  States  to 
vigorously  cooperate  in  order  to  ensure  that  the 
dialogue  established  under  the  Universal  Periodic 
Review  Mechanism  is  indeed  universal  and  inclusive 
of all. 

In conclusion, I would like to highlight that, as a 
member of the Human Rights Council, the Republic of 
Moldova  is  committed  to  continuing  to  fulfil  its 
individual pledges and to doing its utmost to strengthen 
2 

10-61876 
its 
to 
and 
body 
some 
important 
acknowledge 
Mr.  McLay


this 
results-oriented 
mechanisms,  including  ensuring  its  impartiality  and 
universality. 
(New  Zealand):  New  Zealand 

welcomes the President of the Human Rights Council, 
Ambassador  Phuangketkeow,  and 
thanks  him  for 
presenting  the  Council’s  fifth  annual  report  (A/65/53 
and  A/65/53/Add.1).  We  would  also  like  to  take  this 
opportunity to thank, and acknowledge the work of, his 
predecessor, Ambassador Alex Van Meeuwen. 
New  Zealand  remains  a  firm  supporter  of  the 

Human Rights Council, which plays an important role 
as  the  principal  human  rights  body  of  the  United 
Nations.  As  we  take  stock  of  another  year,  we  are 
pleased 
recent  positive 
developments  in  the  Council’s  work.  In  particular,  an 
increased spirit of cross-regionalism has been evident, 
such as with the resolution establishing a new mandate 
on the freedom of assembly and association, which was 
brought  to  the  Council  by  a  group  of  seven  States 
representing five different regional groups. 

In  New  Zealand’s  case  this  year,  we  were 
honoured to work in partnership with Burkina Faso and 
Colombia  on 
initiatives  on  preventable 
maternal  mortality  and  morbidity  and  human  rights. 
This shows that, working cross-regionally, the Council 
can  avoid  some  of  the  problems  that  plagued  its 
predecessor,  the  Commission  on  Human  Rights,  and 
enable it better to fulfil its mandate. 

The  credibility  of  the  Council  will  of  course 
always  be  judged  by  its  ability  to  respond  to  serious 
human  rights  violations.  We  welcome  the  fact  that, 
over  the  past  year,  the  Council  has  increasingly  used 
the various tools at its disposal in formal and informal 
sessions.  The  recent  discussions  on  mass  rapes  in  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  and  the  debate  on 
Somalia  are  good  examples  of  the  Council  using  a 
range  of  different  tools  to  consider  critical  situations 
effectively and in a timely manner. 

We  also  regard  the  Universal  Periodic  Review 
Mechanism,  the  ninth  session  of  which  is  presently 
under  way,  as  a  useful  addition  to  the  United  Nations 
human  rights  machinery.  We  continue  to  see  great 
value in the Council’s system of special procedures. 

New Zealand is among those countries that have 
extended  standing  invitations  to  special  procedures 
mandate  holders.  This  year,  we  were  pleased  to 
several 
A/65/PV.43
be 
that 
could 
elements 
to  enhance 
to  consider  how 
welcome  to  New  Zealand  Professor  James  Anaya, 
Special  Rapporteur  on  the  situation  of  human  rights 
and  fundamental  freedoms  of  indigenous  people.  The 
scrutiny  afforded  by  the  special  procedures  system 
allows  for  engagement  with  leading  human  rights 
experts. That visit was a welcome opportunity to assess 
progress on indigenous rights in New Zealand. 

We  appreciate  these  and  other  positive  elements 
of the Council’s work, but much remains to be done. In 
that  regard,  the  Council’s  ongoing  review  of  its  work 
and  functioning  provides  all  stakeholders  with  an 
opportunity 
the 
effectiveness  of  the  Council.  This  is  an  important 
opportunity, although it must be borne in mind that the 
institutional  structure  contains 
Council’s  existing 
under-utilized 
better 
implemented. 

Turning now to the review itself, we are carefully 
considering  all  of  the  proposals  made  in  Geneva  last 
week  during  the  first  session  of  the  open-ended 
working  group  on  the  work  and  functioning  of  the 
Council.  Our  aim  for,  and  our  expectation  of,  that 
review  is  simple:  to  improve  the  Council’s  ability  to 
promote and protect human rights. In particular, we see 
value  in  proposals  that  would  improve  the  Council’s 
ability  to  address  critical  human  rights  situations, 
wherever  they  occur;  improve  the  action-oriented 
nature  of  the  Council’s  work  while  allowing  for 
follow-up  where  necessary  and  enhanced  coordination 
with  other  branches  of  the  United  Nations  system, 
including 
the  Third  Committee  and  specialized 
agencies;  provide  for  a  more  balanced,  transparent, 
predictable  and  streamlined  programme  of  work  and 
enhance  the  universality  of  the  Universal  Periodic 
Review Mechanism and make better use of the work of 
special procedures. 
input  of  other  Council 

regard 
stakeholders, 
including  of  national  human  rights 
institutions  and  civil  society,  as  integral  to  the  review 
process  as  it  is  to  the  Council’s  work  in  general.  We 
support the President’s aim of completing the review of 
the work and functioning of the Council in Geneva by 
March 2011, thus allowing sufficient time here in New 
York for the related review of the Council’s status. 

New  Zealand  congratulates  the  President  on  his 
able  efforts  to  lead  the  review  process  during  his 
informal  consultations  and  at  last  week’s  working 
group  meeting.  We  commend  especially  his  role  in 
We 
the 
10-61876 

3 

the 
Human  rights  constitutes  one  of 
A/65/PV.43 

bringing  together  the  various  regional  groups  and 
building a basis for consensus. 

three 
fundamental  pillars  on  which  the  United  Nations  was 
founded.  Mainstreaming  human  rights  throughout  the 
United Nations system is at the heart of the mandate of 
the  Human  Rights  Council.  New  Zealand  is  hopeful 
that  the  positive  elements  we  have  observed  this  year 
will  continue  and  that  the  review  of  the  Council  will 
move it further towards the objectives for which it was 
originally established. 
Mr.  Apakan  (Turkey):  First  of  all,  I  wish  to 

extend  our  gratitude  to  the  President  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  for  his  statement  today. We  appreciate 
his able leadership of the Council. He has Turkey’s full 
support.  Yesterday,  we  made  a  statement  in  the  Third 
Committee on the report of the Human Rights Council. 
Therefore, today I will keep my remarks brief. 
We  welcome  the  Human  Rights  Council  report 

contained in document A/65/53 and its addendum. The 
report  and  addendum  contain  many 
important 
resolutions  and  decisions.  However,  I  wish  to  draw 
attention to one in particular. Resolution 15/1 concerns 
the  follow-up 
the  Independent 
International  Fact-Finding  Mission  on  the  31  May 
incident.  The 
report 
(A/HRC/15/21)  of  the  mission,  which  was  tasked  to 
investigate  violations  of  human 
law  and 
the 
international  humanitarian 
Israeli 
the 
international humanitarian convoy to Gaza. During the 
attack, Israeli forces killed nine civilians and wounded 
many others. 

International  Fact-Finding 
Mission  consisted  of  highly  reputable  international 
legal  personalities  and  issued  its  report  after  having 
interviewed 
over 
20 nationalities,  in  Geneva,  London,  Istanbul  and 
Amman.  The  findings  and  conclusions  of  the  report 
therefore reflect a meticulous study and analysis of the 
situation.  It  also  contains  compelling  legal  arguments 
based  on  international  law,  including  international 
human rights law and humanitarian law. 


Among other things, the Mission concluded that 

“The  conduct  of  the  Israeli  military  and 
other  personnel  towards  the  flotilla  passengers 
was not only disproportionate to the occasion but 
law  resulting  from 
international  waters  on 
112  witnesses, 
representing 
to 
the  report  of 
The 
Independent 
attack 
in 
rights 
resolution 
endorses 
the 


Israel  of 
the  Secretary-General 
demonstrated  levels  of  totally  unnecessary  and 
incredible violence.” (A/HRC/15/21, para. 264) 
The report further stated, 
“Such conduct cannot be justified or condoned on 
security  or  any  other  grounds.  It  constituted  a 
grave  violation  of  human 
rights 
law  and 
international humanitarian law.” (ibid.) 

The  Mission  also  concluded  that  the  following 
crimes  had  been  committed:  wilful  killing,  torture  or 
inhuman  treatment  and  the  wilful  causing  of  great 
suffering  or  serious  injury  to  body  or  health.  In 
addition,  the  report  went  on  to  enumerate  a  series  of 
violations  by 
its  obligations  under 
international  human  rights  law.  It  also  reaffirmed  the 
illegality  of  the  blockade  on  Gaza.  We  note  that  the 
vast  majority  of  the  international  community  supports 
the findings and conclusions of the report, which gives 
a  fair  account  of  the  events  based  on  solid  facts  and 
legal documents. 
Meanwhile,  our  commitment  to  the  Panel  of 

Inquiry  established  by 
in 
accordance  with  the  Security  Council’s  presidential 
statement  of  1  June  (S/PRST/2010/9)  continues.  On 
1 September,  we  submitted  our  interim  report  to  the 
Panel  of 
substantive  attachments 
including  autopsy  reports  and  witness  accounts.  Our 
interim report resulted from an objective study carried 
out  by  the  Turkish  Commission  of  Investigation  by 
inspecting  three  of  the  convoy’s  ships,  taking  verbal 
and  written  testimonies  from  many  witnesses  and 
analysing the legal implications of the attack. 

After having received the Turkish interim report, 
the  Panel  submitted  its  first  progress  report  to  the 
Secretary-General  in  mid-September.  However,  Israel 
has yet to present its own report to the Panel. We call 
on  Israel  to  acknowledge  its  mistakes  and  to  act 
accordingly. Had the Israelis met our expectations of a 
formal apology and compensation for the wounded and 
the  families  of  the  deceased,  we  would  not  be  at  this 
stage. The sooner the Israelis act responsibly, the faster 
relations will normalize. 

Until  then,  we  will  continue  to  closely  follow 
developments  in  this  matter.  Depending  on  Israel’s 
attitude  in  the  coming  weeks,  we  can  revisit  our 
position, in consultation with other relevant groups and 
countries,  on  how  to  pursue  this  issue  in  the  General 
Assembly.  Moreover,  if  Israel  does  not  implement  the 
Inquiry,  with 
4 

10-61876 


conclusions and recommendations of the report before 
March  2011,  the  issue  will  inevitably  become  one  of 
the major agenda items of the sixteenth session of the 
Human Rights Council. In that respect, we also expect 
the  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  to  reflect 
steps taken by Israel to that end, if any, in its report to 
the sixteenth session in March 2011. 

We  also  welcome  Human  Rights  Council 
resolutions 15/6 and 13/9, with regard to the report of 
the  United  Nations  Independent  International  Fact-
Finding  Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict.  We  will 
continue  to  follow  up  the  implementation  of  the 
recommendations contained in the Goldstone report. 

In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  refer  to  the  significance 
of fighting impunity and establishing accountability in 
the  context  of  this  Organization.  If  we  are  to  speak 
about  justice,  we  need  to  end  impunity  and  ensure 
accountability.  Otherwise,  we  cannot  speak  about 
peace and stability, let alone credibility. 
Mr.  Sangqu  (South  Africa):  Let  me  extend  a 

warm  welcome  to  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sihasak  Phuangketkeow, 
and  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  him  for  his 
term of office during the Council’s fifth cycle year. We 
wish  to  reassure  him  of  South Africa’s  support  in  his 
endeavour  to  guide  the  Council’s  work  during  this 
cycle year. 

Allow me to also express our sincere appreciation 
to the former President of the Council, His Excellency 
Mr.  Alex  Van  Meeuwen,  and  to  the  members  of  his 
Bureau  who  have,  in  an  exceptional  manner,  steered 
the  work  of  the  Council  during  the  reporting  period 
covered  in  the  annual  report  before  us  (A/65/53  and 
A/65/53/Add.1). 

We  attach  great  importance  to  the  work  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  as  a  body  of  first  instance 
responsible  for  universal  respect  for  the  promotion, 
protection  and  fulfilment  of  all  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms.  In  that  regard,  we  wish  to 
emphasize the imperative need for the Council’s work 
to  be  solidly  grounded  on  the  fundamental  principles 
that  underpin 
the  1993  World 
Conference  on  Human  Rights,  namely,  the  Vienna 
Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action.  The  Council’s 
work  must  evolve  to  deal  with  the  contemporary 
challenges  facing  the  peoples  of  the  world,  which  are 
deeply 
the  debilitating  poverty  and 
underdevelopment that still defines the world order. 
the  outcome  of 
rooted 
in 
A/65/PV.43
for 
realization 
of 
and 
without 
international 
rights.  The  notion  of 
recognition 
inextricability 

South  Africa  has  always  advocated  the  need  to 
consider all human rights issues on an equal footing. In 
that  regard,  my  delegation  encourages  the  Human 
Rights Council to accord balanced attention and focus 
on both civil  and political  rights as well as economic, 
social  and  cultural 
the 
justiciability  of economic,  social  and  cultural  rights is 
also  an  integral  thread,  especially  given  the  looming 
deadline 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  in  order  to  make  the 
practical enjoyment of all human rights a reality for all. 

In  our  view,  the  achievement  of  the  MDGs  is 
of 
inconceivable 
the 
intersectionality 
between 
development and human rights. It is equally important 
that  the  Council  seriously  examine  the  possibility  of 
establishing a mechanism or structure to positively and 
comprehensively  contribute 
to  General  Assembly 
processes  that  aim  to  fast-track  the  realization  of  the 
MDGs, which, in our view, are human rights. 
The Council must equally continue to strengthen 

existing 
law,  norms  and  standards, 
particularly where there are substantive gaps in relation 
to  the  contemporary  challenges  facing  all  victims  of 
human  rights  abuses  worldwide.  That  can  only  add 
value  to  the  mandate  of  the  Council  in  terms  of  the 
promotion and protection of human rights. 

We are encouraged by the commencement of the 
process  of  review  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  to 
which  the  President  referred  earlier. We  are  cognizant 
of all of the other parallel activities and efforts that are 
taking  place  in  various  regions  of  the  world  to 
deliberate  on  this  subject.  However,  it  remains  our 
hope that the intergovernmental working group created 
for  that  purpose  will  continue  to  serve  as  a  forum  for 
such discussions, which must continue to be guided by 
the  principles  of 
transparency  and 
comprehensiveness.  We  must  congratulate  both  the 
Presidents of the General Assembly and of the Human 
Rights Council for ensuring that through joint efforts, a 
coherent and coordinated review process will emerge. 

The  review  of  the  Council  should  take  a  victim-
oriented  approach  and  aim  to  prevent  violations  of 
human  rights,  rather  than  react  to  those  issues.  In  the 
same  vein,  it  is  our  hope  that,  in  line  with  resolution 
48/141, the realignment of the relationship between the 
Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights 
and  the  Human  Rights  Council  will  serve  to  produce 
inclusivity, 
10-61876 

5 
in 

two 
those 
the  efforts  of 
A/65/PV.43 

complementarity 
institutions. 

Similarly,  the  Council  is  faced  with  an  odd 
situation  of  a  cycle  year  that  begins  in  the  middle  of 
the year and month. That presents a serious anomaly in 
its  work,  with  the  concomitant  result  of  a  sitting 
President presenting an annual report covering a period 
over  which  he  has  not  presided.  This  is  an  issue  that 
my  delegation  raised  during  the  earlier  institution-
building processes. We will continue to follow up on it 
in  the  context  of  the  review  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council. 

Of  equal  importance  is  the  Universal  Periodic 
Review Mechanism, which remains the hallmark of the 
Council’s work. Its universality must be preserved and 
strengthened,  particularly  with  respect  to  the  uniform 
standard  questionnaire,  which  must  be  developed  as  a 
tool  to  assess  all  States.  The  role  of  the  special 
procedures  must  remain  ever  so  relevant,  particularly 
with  respect  to  the  examination  of  all  situations  in  an 
equal  manner.  It  is  our  firm  view  that  no  State  is 
immune from human  rights violations, hence the need 
for regional mandates remains a necessity. 

The remaining process of review will commence 
soon in New York. Our view is clear, that here in New 
York  our  discourse  should  relate  to  the  issues  on  the 
status of the Council as stipulated in resolution 60/251. 

Another  area  of  realignment  that  remains  key  to 
my  delegation  is  the  question  of  the  relationship 
between  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly in general, and with the Third Committee in 
particular.  In  that  regard,  we  should  address  the 
question  of  how  the  Committee  is  supposed  to  deal 
with  the  report  of  the  Council.  These  issues,  in  our 
view, fall within the purview of the review of the status 
of  the  Council.  My  delegation  stands  ready  to  work 
closely  and  in  a  constructive  manner  on  the  matter  of 
the  review  of  the  Human  Rights  Council.  We  look 
forward  to  fostering  such  cooperation  during  this 
process. 
Mr.  Weisleder  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

We  are  grateful 
(A/65/53  and 
A/65/53/Add.1)  that  has  been  introduced  to  us  on  the 
work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council.  We  particularly 
appreciate  the  opportunity  to  discuss  it  in  plenary 
meeting  of  the  General  Assembly.  My  delegation 
believes  that  it  is  necessary  to  coordinate  the  work  of 
the Third Committee and the full Assembly, in order to 
report 
the 
for 
In 
the 
that 
rights. 
connection, 
institutional  structure  for 
facilitate  an  in-depth  consideration  of  this  important 
document. 

Historically,  Costa  Rica  has  had  a  profound 
commitment  to  respect,  protect,  observe  and  promote 
human 
full 
implementation  and  effect  of  human  rights  constitute 
the main pillar of our domestic and foreign policies. 

Costa  Rica’s  national  development  plan  for  the 
period 2006 to 2010, which is still being implemented, 
establishes  human  rights  as  a  cross-cutting  aspect  of 
State  activities  and  objectives.  Despite  the  difficulties 
that  Costa  Rica  faces  as  a  middle-income  developing 
country that receives very little international assistance 
in  carrying  out  social,  cultural  and  economic  projects, 
by  devoting  public  resources  we  have  been  able  to 
continue  to  improve  our  people’s  living  standards  and 
to  build  a  strong 
the 
protection of  human rights. Such protection is equally 
afforded  to  immigrants,  who  comprise  around  10  per 
cent of our total population. 

With  regard  to  the  most  recent  session  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council,  we  would  like  to  highlight 
once  more  the  adoption  of  resolution  15/11,  entitled 
“World  Programme  for  Human  Rights  Education: 
adoption  of  the  plan  of  action  for  the  second  phase”. 
The  resolution  was  introduced  by  the  Platform  for 
Human  Rights  Education  and  Training,  which 
comprises 
the  delegations  of  Costa  Rica,  Italy, 
Morocco, 
the  Philippines,  Slovenia,  Senegal  and 
Switzerland. 
Human rights education and training is a lifelong 

process  that  contributes  to  the  establishment  and 
strengthening  of  societies  that  are  more  tolerant  and 
peaceful, in which all human beings and their inherent 
and indivisible human rights are valued, respected and 
protected. It also promotes mutual understanding, helps 
to prevent conflicts and violations of human rights and 
fundamental  freedoms  on  the  ground  and  enhances 
participation and democratic processes. 

Costa  Rica  attaches  high  priority  to  the  review 
process  of  the  work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council. 
From  our  standpoint  as  an  observer  State  to  date,  we 
has  been  deeply  involved  in  the  discussions  that  have 
been taking place in that regard. We have presented to 
the  Third  Committee  some  general  ideas  on  the 
process,  but  I  would  also  like  to  share  with  Member 
States two of my country’s specific proposals, namely, 
6 

10-61876 
implement 
the  examined  country  can 


with  regard  to  the  Universal  Periodic  Review  and 
special procedures. 

Based  on  our  own  experience  in  the  Universal 
Periodic Review, we believe that it requires some fine-
tuning.  Currently,  recommendations  for  each  country 
examined  are  treated  unequally  and  in  a  disjointed 
manner.  This  situation  has  an  impact  on  the  way  in 
which 
the 
recommendations. We propose improving the operation 
of the troika and improving the support provided by the 
Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Human  Rights  by  way  of  a  guide  for  clustering  and 
filtering recommendations. 

We have proposed improving the classification of 
recommendations,  as  well  as  consolidating  them  so 
they  appear  only  once  in  a  catalogue  that,  once  it  has 
been accepted by a State, genuinely reflects a country’s 
progress  and  the  challenges  it  faces  in  the  area  of 
human  rights.  The  content  of  each  recommendation 
should be sufficiently clear to allow the relevant State 
and the other stakeholders concerned to implement it. 

We believe that special procedures are crucial for 
improving  the  situation  on  the  ground.  In  addition  to 
underlining the need for a standing invitation from all 
Member  States,  Costa  Rica  has  therefore  proposed  to 
the Council the establishment of region-specific special 
procedures  as  an  option  to  ensure,  through  broad  and 
equitable  monitoring,  an  integral  approach  to  human 
rights in all countries and regions. This proposal would 
not  only  help  to  strengthen  the  principles  of  non-
selectivity, objectivity and impartiality; it would allow 
for  better  oversight  of  actual  conditions  from  the 
perspective  of  the  universality,  interdependence  and 
indivisibility  of  human  rights.  It  could  also  serve  as  a 
formula for enhancing States’ willingness to cooperate 
in the process. 

We  would  like  to  recall  that  Costa  Rica  has 
presented its candidacy for the Human Rights Council 
for  the  period  2011-2014.  We  are  a  country  that 
respects 
diversity, 
international  law  and  the  multilateral  system.  We  are 
committed 
in  a  responsible,  systematic, 
transparent and constructive manner in the Council. If 
we achieve our aspiration, we will maintain a dedicated 
position on human rights while also being receptive to 
information, arguments and positions from all sides, in 
a transparent and equitable manner. 
pluralism, 
tolerance, 
to  work 
peace, 
A/65/PV.43
through 
to  enable  our 
to  mature  and  endure 
Mr.  Mohamed  (Maldives): The  Maldives  would 

like  to  thank  His  Excellency  Ambassador  Sihasak 
Phuangketkeow  for  his  work  in  presiding  over  the 
fifteenth session of the Human Rights Council and for 
his  report  presented  to  us  here  today  (A/65/53  and 
A/65/53/Add.1).  The  Maldives  is  proud  to  have  been 
elected  to  the  Council  in  May  of  this  year.  We  are 
cognizant of the trust and responsibility conferred upon 
us through the overwhelming support demonstrated by 
United Nations Members across all regions. 

The  decision  by  the  Maldives  to  seek  a  seat  on 
the  Human  Rights  Council  was  a  measured  one  that 
fledgling 
reflected  our  ambition 
democracy 
the 
development  of  institutions  that  promote  and  protect 
the political,  social  and  cultural  rights of our  citizens. 
It  was  also  rooted  in  the  notion  that  this  increasingly 
globalized world calls for tolerance, understanding and 
respect  for  human  dignity  as  we  collectively  strive  to 
free  ourselves  from  those  burdens  that  have  long 
deprived  humankind  of  a  world  free  from  hunger, 
poverty, ignorance and insecurity. 

We  believe  that  these  objectives  can  only  be 
achieved through a process of positive engagement that 
comprehensively  addresses  the  needs  and  sensitivities 
of  the  most  vulnerable,  whom  we  have  pledged  to 
protect.  Moreover, 
the 
exchange  and  self-directed  adoption  of  best  practices 
that  ensure  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights.  The  Maldives  believes  that  the  Human  Rights 
Council  and  the  Third  Committee  are  the  appropriate 
deliberative bodies for promoting such processes. 

The Maldives became a subject of the Council as 
we  undertook  our  own  Universal  Periodic  Review  in 
Geneva  very  early  this  morning.  We  consider  this 
exercise  an  opportunity  to  enhance  human  rights 
protections at home. This recent experience only serves 
to strengthen our firm belief that the review process is 
one of the most successful tools in the Council’s initial 
arsenal  of  human  rights  instruments.  Furthermore,  our 
experiences this morning reaffirmed the notion that the 
medium  for  these  reviews  is  true  dialogue.  We  assert 
that these presentations serve not only to inform, but to 
engage  in  a  dialogue  that  allows  for  meaningful 
examination  of  and  reflection  upon  one’s  challenges 
and their solutions. 

Lastly on this point, we would like to emphasize, 
as we did this morning, that the Maldives has extended 
this  process  must 
inspire 
10-61876 

7 
together  with 
the  honour  of 
The  Maldives  had 
A/65/PV.43 

standing  invitations  to  all  Special  Rapporteurs.  Our 
Government  has  made  sweeping  changes  in  the  past 
two  years,  and  we  do  not  believe  that  these  positive 
developments  are  produced  by  ephemeral  flashes  of 
insight  in  isolation.  Rather,  we  maintain  that  the 
success of our ongoing efforts to evolve is the result of 
both internal pressures and the introduction of external 
observations and solutions that help us to produce new 
and improved ways of protecting and empowering our 
citizens. 

As Ambassador Phuangketkeow stated yesterday, 
the  Council  undertook  an  ambitious  agenda  in  pursuit 
of its mandate. The Maldives delegation in Geneva set 
out  to  contribute  constructively  to  this  work  by 
pursuing  our  stated  objective  of  promoting  issues  of 
particular  national  concern,  namely,  the  rights  of 
the  prevention  of 
women  and  children, 
torture, 
environmental  rights, 
the  rights  of  persons  with 
disabilities and the independence of the judiciary. 
jointly 

the  United  States  of 
introducing, 
America,  a  draft 
to 
strengthen the enjoyment of civil and political rights by 
establishing  a  new  United  Nations  Special  Rapporteur 
to  aid  in  further  protecting  the  right  of  expression  of 
political  opinions,  engage  in  literary  and  artistic 
pursuits,  form  trade  unions  and  elect  accountable 
leaders that represent those interests. 

In  pursuit  of  our  priority  to  promote  gender 
equality, the Maldives worked closely with Mexico and 
Colombia  to  establish  a  new  United  Nations  human 
rights  mechanism  designed  to  monitor,  modify  and 
eliminate  national 
that  discriminate  against 
women.  We  also  endorsed  the  follow-up  to  the  report 
of  the  Independent  International  Fact-Finding  Mission 
on the Gaza flotilla attack, voted in favour of continued 
United  Nations  engagement  with  the  human  rights 
situation 
the  Sudan  and  co-sponsored  various 
resolutions  that  we  believe  will  bolster  our  own 
national  efforts  to  strengthen  institutions  that  protect 
the basic tenets of our democracy and the social rights 
of our people. 

While we are proud of the achievements we have 
witnessed  as  an  observer  and  then  member  of  the 
Human Rights Council during these past four years, we 
readily  acknowledge 
requires 
improvements 
international  body 
whose  form  and  function  meet  the  challenges  of  its 
that  produce  an 
that  endeavours 
that 
the  Council 
laws 
in 
resolution 

that  although 
stated  mission.  We  maintain 
total 
overhaul is not necessary, much can be done to ensure 
a  more  engaging  and  positive  process  in  Geneva  that 
translates improvements on the ground into real human 
rights. 

For  example,  we  believe  that  any  review  of  the 
Council  should  facilitate  the  active  engagement  of  all 
small States with the work of the Council. The unique 
geopolitical  circumstances  of  these  entities  produce 
unique needs and perspectives that must be reflected in 
deliberations  that  have  implications  for  everyone. 
Moreover,  we  believe  that  improving  our  methods  for 
dealing  with  country-specific  human  rights  situations 
and reflecting on a more comprehensive picture of the 
status  of  human  rights  that  includes  success  stories  in 
ensuring  the  full  enjoyment  of  human  rights  would 
result  in  a  more  constructive  process.  Lastly,  on  the 
matter  of  reform,  we  would  like  to  assert  our  support 
for  maintaining  a  minimum  of  three  regular  sessions 
throughout the year for the Council’s work, as reducing 
the  current  number  of  sessions  would  constrain  the 
Council’s  ability  to  respond  to  human  rights  issues  as 
they emerge. 

The  Maldives  believes  that  real  security  and 
sustainable  and  equitable  development  are  predicated 
on the existence of a system anchored by human rights. 
We  will  therefore  continue  to  pursue  initiatives  that 
protect  and  strengthen  the  rights  of  victims,  improve 
preventive  measures  and  encourage  constructive 
dialogue.  Moreover,  we  will  continue  to  promote  our 
positive experiences by encouraging countries to adopt 
a method of honest self-reflection when thinking about 
the  human  rights  challenges  they  face,  while  making 
use of an open and honest dialogue in order to develop 
solutions that translate into real success at home. 
Mr.  Gutiérrez  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 

delegation  thanks  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council, Ambassador  Sihasak  Phuangketkeow,  for  the 
presentation  of  his  report  to  the  General  Assembly 
(A/65/53  and A/65/53/Add.1).  Peru  is  pleased  to  note 
that  the  outcome  of  the  work  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council  makes  a  major  contribution  to  the  promotion 
and  protection  of  human  rights.  Although  there  are 
many important topics for my delegation flowing from 
the report of  the Human Rights Council, I should like 
to refer to a few of them specifically. 

that 
Peru  deeply  deplores  the  passage  of  legislation 
the 
criminalizes 
migration, 
irregular 
8 

10-61876 
treated 
their  migratory  status,  should  be 


implementation of which  affects the human rights and 
the  dignity  of  migrants.  We  express  our  profound 
concern at the arbitrary arrests and detentions that are 
taking  place. We  reiterate  that  all  migrants,  regardless 
of 
in 
accordance  with  the  standards  of  international  human 
rights  law.  We  call  on  States  to  eliminate  these 
measures,  which  without  a  doubt  will  exacerbate  the 
problem of migration, thus encouraging trafficking and 
slavery  and  increasing  even  more  the  level  of  poverty 
of migrants and their families. 

The elimination of discrimination against women 
is  an  issue  to  which  Peru  also  attaches  special 
importance. We continue to be concerned at the lack of 
equality before the law that women suffer from in some 
parts of the world, which only limits their development 
and the opportunities open to them. For this reason, we 
call  on  States  to  comply  with  their  international 
obligations. In accordance with the commitments made 
within  the  framework  of  the  Convention  on  the 
Elimination  of  All  Forms  of  Discrimination  against 
Women,  the  Beijing  Declaration  and  Platform  for 
Action  and  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  we 
call  upon  them  to  set  aside  laws  that  discriminate 
against women and increase their social, economic and 
political vulnerability. 

their 
progress. It should therefore be condemned, no matter 
what  the  forms  and  circumstances  might  be,  and 
effective  measures  should  be  taken  to  eliminate  and 
prevent it. 
Another  topic  closely  related  to  women  is  the 

renewed 
eliminate 
preventable  mortality  and  morbidity  associated  with 
childbearing.  This  issue  is  also  dealt  with  in  the 
Council,  and  Peru  has  already  supported  the  ensuing 
resolution. 

We  highlight  the  handling  of  the  human  rights 
situation after the earthquake in Haiti and the renewal 
of the mandate of the independent expert on that topic. 
As  part  of  the  group  of  friends,  Peru  supports  the 
mandate, which is focused on technical assistance and 
capacity-building  and  respects  the  decisions  adopted 
by the Haitian Government on that process. 

Furthermore, in spite of the progress achieved at 
the  global  level  in  eradicating  extreme  property,  it 
continues to be a very serious problem and undermines 
the  human  dignity  of  millions  of  people.  The 
Violence  against  women  also 
commitment 
of  States 
limits 
to 
A/65/PV.43
in  Geneva,  and 
eradication of extreme poverty is closely linked to the 
promotion  and  protection  of  the  full  enjoyment  of 
human  rights.  In  that  sense,  it  is  the  responsibility  of 
States and the international community to contribute to 
the eradication of extreme poverty. 

Given the importance of this subject, Peru will, as 
in  previous  years,  once  again  present  to  the  Third 
Committee  during  this  session  a  draft  resolution  on 
human  rights  and  extreme  poverty,  which  will  be 
linked  to  and  support  the  work  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council. 
Peru  is  part  of  the  group  of  friends  on  human 

rights  and  extreme  poverty, 
is 
committed  to  supporting  the  efforts  of  the  High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights.  We  support  her 
consultations  on  the  report  on  the  draft  principles  and 
guidelines  on  extreme  poverty  and  human  rights  in 
accordance  with  the  mandate  of  the  Council,  and  we 
call for States and other prominent international actors 
to join in that task. 

My delegation welcomes the establishment of the 
two  special  procedures  mandates,  the  post  of  special 
rapporteur on the right of freedom of association and of 
assembly and the working group on the elimination of 
discrimination  against  women  in  law  and  in  practice. 
Peru  reiterates 
their 
respective  areas  of  work  and  the  rest  of  the  special 
procedures  and  working  groups  mandated  by  the 
Council. My country also highlights the importance of 
that  work  being  completed  in  a  fully  independent 
fashion. 

As  a  founding  member  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council, Peru has actively participated in the Council’s 
institution-building process, with the basic objective of 
promoting  universal  respect  for  and  protection  of 
fundamental  human  rights  in  full  accordance  with  the 
principles  of  legitimacy,  without  discrimination  or 
political selectivity. 
With the experience garnered at the time as well 

as that gained from our current status as observer, Peru 
has  presented  its  candidature  to  the  Human  Rights 
Council for the 2011 to 2014 term. Whether as member 
or  observer,  as  we  are  currently,  my  country  will 
continuously  cooperate  with 
is 
convinced that, if elected, we will be able to contribute 
even further to the Council’s work. 
the  Council  and 
its  commitment 
to  support 
10-61876 

9 

be 
should 
Instead, 
avoided. 
institutions  and 
regional  organizations 
the  General  Assembly  and 
the  programme  of  work  and 
A/65/PV.43 


My  country  has  been  participating  in  the  review 
process  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  in  Geneva.  We 
have  supported 
its 
modalities,  as  presented  by  the  President  of  the 
Council.  Although  that  process  is  led  by  States,  my 
delegation  attaches  great  importance  to  its  inclusive 
nature, which enables civil society and national human 
rights 
to 
participate. 

In  that  context,  we  appreciate  the  results  of  the 
first  session  of  the  intergovernmental  working  group 
on the review of the Council, which recently took place 
in Geneva. We believe duplication of efforts among the 
the  Third 
Council, 
Committee 
a 
complementary  aspect  should  be  promoted,  which 
would  make  it  easier  to  promote  and  protect  human 
rights on the ground and to strengthen the mechanisms 
of the Council. 

In  that  respect,  my  delegation  shares  the  view 
that the review process should be practical and realistic 
and  should  primarily  focus  on  considering  to  what 
degree  the  Council  has  complied  with  the  mandate 
entrusted to it. We also believe that the review should 
be  a  long-term  process.  It  should  not  conclude  at  this 
stage,  but  rather  a  new  review  should  take  place  five 
years after the conclusion of the current one. 

The  implementation  of  the  Universal  Periodic 
Review  Mechanism  is  one  of  the  elements  that  have 
contributed  to  strengthening  the  universal  system  of 
human 
that 
Mechanism can be improved, one cannot deny that it is 
one of the achievements brought about by the creation 
of the Council. However, its true dimensions should be 
evaluated  in  the  light  of  States  heeding  the  comments 
made to them during the periodic review. 

In  line  with  our  ongoing  commitment  to  the 
universal,  indivisible  and  interdependent  nature  of 
human  rights,  Peru  will  continue  to  direct  its  efforts 
towards greater and better consolidation of the work of 
the  Human  Rights  Council  and  towards  making  that 
body  complementary 
the  Third 
Committee. We will do so without, of course, ignoring 
the political principle of the unswerving promotion and 
protection  of  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms 
and respect for democracy and the rule of law that Peru 
has always had. 
rights.  Although  we  believe 
the  work  of 
that 
to 
for 
forward 
to  carry 
the  process 
this  opportunity 
We  avail  ourselves  of 
Mr.  Sial  (Pakistan):  We  would  like  to  welcome 

the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  thank 
him for the presentation of the report of the Council for 
the  2009-2010  period  (A/65/53)  and  its  addendum 
(A/65/53/Add.1).  We  would  also  like  to  express  our 
appreciation 
the  cooperative  approach  and 
professionalism  of  the  officials  of  the  Office  of  the 
High Commissioner for Human Rights. 

to 
congratulate  Ambassador  Phuangketkeow  on  his 
election as the President of the Human Rights Council. 
In a short time, he has established his credentials as an 
able  leader  who  can  facilitate  consensus  in  difficult 
situations 
in  a 
non-controversial  manner.  Pakistan  will  continue  to 
support his constructive approach and sincere efforts in 
taking  the  agenda  of  human  rights  forward  in  a 
consensual and impartial manner. 

The  Human  Rights  Council  is  in  its  fifth  year. 
With  all  its  perceived  shortcomings,  the  Council  has 
made tremendous progress both in terms of progressive 
development of human rights standards and in dealing 
with human rights situations around the globe. We are 
aware of the views concerning the need for measures to 
enable 
to  address  various  complex 
situations.  However,  in  our  view,  the  Council  is  well 
equipped with all the necessary tools. What is lacking 
is  their  transparent,  impartial  and  non-selective  use  in 
different situations. 

During  the  recent  interactive  dialogue  with  the 
High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  in  the  Third 
Committee  we  welcomed  her  pledge  and  efforts  to 
improve  the  relationship  between  her  Office  and  the 
Council. We  believe an enhanced and institutionalized 
relationship benefits all. Accordingly, we welcome the 
presidential  statement  on 
the 
fifteenth session of the Council (A/HRC/PRST/15/2). 

This  is  also  a  year  in  which  the  Council  has  to 
undergo  a  major  review  exercise,  concerning  both  its 
work 
status.  While 
acknowledging the importance of the ongoing work on 
that  issue,  we  agree  with  the  views  expressed  this 
morning  by  the  President  that  it  is  only  a  review  and 
not  a  reform  exercise  (see  A/65/PV.42).  Accordingly, 
we  would 
adventurous 
approaches  that  may  compromise  the  very  balanced 
and  well-crafted  package  contained 
in  Council 
resolution  5/1. The  first  session  of  the  working  group 
the  subject  during 
the  Council 
functioning 
caution 
against 
taking 
and 
and 
its 
10 

10-61876 
is 
and 
some  of 


on the review has brought forward a diversity of views 
on  this  important  subject,  and  we  look  forward  to  the 
role  of  the  facilitators  in  sifting  through  that  diversity 
in  a  manner  that  serves  to  improve  the  work  and 
functioning  of  the  Council  in  a  way  that  is  consistent 
with the package. 

As for the review process to be conducted in New 
York,  we  support  streamlining  and  taking  appropriate 
steps  that  can  help  the  Council  to  have  enough 
resources  at  its  disposal  without  delays  to  effectively 
carry out its mandated tasks. 
The crown jewel of the Human Rights Council’s 

work 
the  Universal  Periodic  Review.  That 
mechanism has proved that meaningful progress can be 
achieved  on  all  human  rights 
in  a  cooperative, 
non-accusatory  manner.  While 
respectful 
addressing 
the  procedural  difficulties 
concerning  time  management,  adoption  of  reports  and 
so  forth,  we  must  preserve  the  cooperative  and  peer-
review  approach  of  the  Review.  Due  attention  must 
also  be  given  to  effective  follow-up  to  agreed-on 
recommendations. 
Special procedures contribute to and complement 

the  Council’s  important  work. Accordingly,  they  must 
work  within  the  agreed  framework  of  their  mandates 
and  the  code  of  conduct.  While  fully  acknowledging 
the  independent  nature  of  their  work,  we  must  also 
avoid  duplication  of  mandates  and  urge  impartial 
assessment  of  various  human 
situations. 
Country-specific  resolutions  remain  the  bane  of  the 
Commission  era.  We  must  learn  from  the  positive 
examples  of  the  Universal  Periodic  Review  that  the 
true  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  are 
better  achieved 
through  a  non-politicized  and 
cooperative approach. 

Again,  meaningful  promotion  and  protection  of 
human rights can be achieved only if all human rights 
are  given  equal  importance,  as  they  are  interlinked, 
interdependent  and  mutually  reinforcing.  Economic, 
social  and  cultural 
rights  must  be  addressed 
concomitantly  with  civil  and  political  rights.  We 
commend the work done by the Council on the right to 
development, and we call for a cooperative approach to 
achieve that important right as a priority. 

The  Council  must  also  pay  more  attention  to 
combating  the  growing  trend  of  racial  and  religious 
intolerance. 
instances  of  xenophobic 
discourse  and  policies  have  resulted  in  lowering  the 
Increased 
rights 
A/65/PV.43
of 
60/251. 
Since 
contained 
resolution 
therein  will 
input  and  hope 
they  will  continue 
safeguards  for  the  promotion  and  protection  of  the 
rights  of  migrants  and  minorities  and  undermining 
secular and multicultural values. 

An  important  facet  of  the  Council’s  work  is  the 
space provided to non-governmental organizations and 
their meaningful contribution in almost all areas of the 
work of the Human Rights Council. We recognize their 
valuable 
to 
participate and contribute in accordance with the well-
established  criteria  laid  down  in  Economic  and  Social 
Council resolution 1996/31. 

In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  express  our 
support  for  the  adoption  of  this  year’s  report  by 
consensus  and  hope  that  both  the  resolutions  and 
recommendations 
be 
implemented. 
Mr. Balé (Congo) (spoke in French): I would like 

to thank the President for organizing this debate on the 
report  of  a  body  whose  importance  has  reinforced  the 
correctness 
its 
establishment  in  2006,  the  Human  Rights  Council  has 
shown  itself  to  be  a  useful  tool  for  the  effective 
promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights.  Today’s 
debate, which is part of the 2011 review process of the 
status,  activities  and  functioning  of  the  Council,  is  of 
the  highest  interest  to  the  Congo,  in  the  light  of  the 
important  responsibilities  that  that  organ  shoulders  in 
promoting  and  protecting  human  rights  around  the 
world. 

My delegation would like to take this opportunity 
to  congratulate  the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights,  as  well  as  all  mandate  holders, 
rapporteurs,  special  representatives  and  independent 
experts whose reports allow us to improve and pursue 
our  efforts  to  promote  human  rights  —  all  human 
rights. 
My delegation takes note of the Council’s report 

the  addendum  (A/65/53/Add.1)  and 
A/65/53  and 
to 
corrigendum  (A/65/53/Corr.1)  and  would 
express  its  appreciation  of  the  efforts  the  Council  has 
made towards fulfilling the mission established for it in 
resolution  60/251.  We  also  thank  the  President  of  the 
Council  for  his  introductory  statement  this  morning 
(see  A/65/PV.42).  The  report  is  a  compilation  of  the 
Council’s  resolutions,  decisions  and  conclusions  from 
the Universal Periodic Reviews. It can, however, serve 
to give a complete picture of the range and number of 
activities undertaken by the Council. 
like 
10-61876 

11 

strengthen, 
its  confidential 
The  various  contributions 
A/65/PV.43 


from  States  — 
members  and  non-members  of  the  Council  —  United 
Nations  institutions  and  civil  society  allow  us  to 
glimpse  a  world  in  which  the  universality  of  human 
rights and their interdependence will grow day by day. 
That  trend  should  be  a  factor  for  progress  in  the 
understanding  and  analysis  of  human  rights  situations 
in  a  world  faced  with  numerous  challenges,  above  all 
by crises that constitute serious threats to international 
peace  and  security  and  that  impede  development 
efforts, particularly the achievement of the Millennium 
Development  Goals.  In  that  context,  my  delegation 
pays tribute to the efforts of the Human Rights Council 
to 
through  a  multilateral  approach, 
cooperation  in  every  aspect  of  the  area  of  human 
rights. 

After  the  review  of  its  national  report  in  the 
Universal Periodic Review in May 2009, the Republic 
of  the  Congo  threw  itself  into  the  implementation  of 
the resulting recommendations. The Council’s decision 
to complete the review of the human rights situation in 
my  country  during 
in 
September 2009 reflects, in our opinion, its recognition 
of 
to 
promoting  and  protecting  human  rights.  At  the  same 
time, that endorsement by the international community 
was  also  seen  by  the  authorities  in  my  country  as  the 
irreversible  impulse  of  a  process  aimed  at  building  a 
modern  State 
law  and 
democratic  rules.  The  Congolese  Government 
is 
committed to that  and  knows it  can rely on assistance 
from both its national and international partners. 

Beyond the guarantee of civil and political rights 
that  it  has  undertaken  to  assure  to  all  its  citizens,  my 
Government is determined to promote and protect their 
economic, social and cultural rights. The recent socio-
economic  measures  taken  on  the  occasion  of  the 
fiftieth  anniversary  of 
the 
Republic of the Congo are part of that commitment to 
ensure the right to well-being of the people of Congo, 
particularly  in  regard  to  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

With  regard  to  protecting  children’s  rights,  my 
country  has  just  ratified  the  Optional  Protocol  to  the 
Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  concerning  the 
involvement of children in armed conflict. That follows 
our  ratification  last  year  of  the  Optional  Protocol 
concerning  the  sale  of  children,  child  prostitution  and 
child pornography. 
the  Congolese  Government’s  commitment 
independence  of 
founded  on 
session 
respect 
for 
the 
This  year 
introduce  a 
the  Congo  will 

law 
concerning  the  promotion  and  protection  of  the  rights 
of indigenous peoples. The current visit to my country 
by  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  situation  of  the 
human rights and fundamental freedoms of indigenous 
people, Mr. James Anaya, which began on 2 November, 
will  give  him  the  opportunity  to  discuss  the  human 
rights of indigenous peoples with representatives of the 
Government, indigenous communities and civil society 
groups.  His  report  will  eventually  clarify  for  us  ways 
and  means  of  committing  to  further  promote  and 
protect the rights of my indigenous countrymen. 

Congo  would  like  to  reaffirm  once  more  its 
willingness to hold to all its international commitments 
in  the  area  of  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights  and  to  support  the  international  community’s 
efforts to that end. That is why my country has decided 
to submit its candidature for the Human Rights Council 
for the 2011 to 2014 period, and to that end would like 
to request the support of all the States represented here 
in the elections, which will be held in May 2011. 

The  year  2011  is  crucial  for  the  Human  Rights 
Council.  We  will  undertake  two  review  processes  of 
that important body, here in New York and in Geneva. 
Those two processes will, we hope, mutually reinforce 
and  complement  each  other  in  a  coordinated  way  to 
ensure  that  there  are  tangible  and  effective  results  in 
terms  of  improving  the  work  and  functioning  of  the 
Council and its monitoring mechanisms. My delegation 
will support any measure in line with that perspective. 
And  we  must  also  ensure  that  during  that  exercise  we 
review  in  depth  the  relationship  between  the  Human 
Rights Council and other United Nations bodies with a 
view  to  streamlining  and  improving  the  effectiveness 
of our institution. 

My  delegation  continues  to  believe  strongly  that 
those two processes will lead to enhancing the Human 
Rights  Council  and  will  demonstrate  its  relevance  in 
terms  of  protecting  and  promoting  human  rights  more 
than ever. 
Ms.  Tvedt  (Norway):  Let  me  start  by  thanking 

the  Human  Rights  Council  for 
the  President  of 
presenting 
and 
A/65/53/Add.1).  The  promotion  and  protection  of 
human rights is one of the principal aims of the United 
Nations.  Together  with  the  promotion  of  peace  and 
security, it constitutes one of the pillars upon which the 
United  Nations  was  founded.  Norway  is  therefore 
the  Council’s 
(A/65/53 
report 
12 

10-61876 
raise 
the 
and  groups 
to 


honoured  to  be  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council. 

A  reinvigorated  vision  for  human  rights  was  at 
the heart of the Secretary-General’s agenda for United 
Nations  reform,  which  the World  Summit  endorsed  in 
2005.  The  Human  Rights  Council  was  created  to 
strengthen the United Nations human rights machinery. 
Norway  took  an  active  part  in  the  negotiation  of 
resolution  60/251,  establishing  the  Council  and  in  the 
negotiation of the institution-building package. We are 
also actively participating in the ongoing review of the 
Council. 

In  the  day-to-day  work  of  the  Council  we  have 
aimed at working constructively with partners from all 
regions 
credibility, 
effectiveness  and  visibility  of  the  Council.  We  have 
done so through making full use of the existing system. 

In  assessing  the  Council,  we  would  like  to 
highlight  both  important  achievements  —  some  of 
which can be further improved — and shortcomings. 

Among the key achievements is, in our view, the 
almost  standing  nature  of  the  Council.  By  meeting 
regularly throughout the year in three regular sessions, 
the  Council  has  the  ability  to  address  human  rights 
situations  in  a  timely  and  effective  manner.  We  also 
view  the  Universal  Periodic  Review  as  a  success.  If 
used 
the 
implementation  gap.  It  can  bring  the  work  of  the 
United Nations and the Council to the field — to rights 
holders 
in  partnership  with 
Governments. 
The system of special procedures continues to be 

the 
jewel 
the  crown.  The  Council’s  review, 
rationalization  and  improvement  process  has  worked 
well. The visibility, relevance and impact of the system 
of special procedures have been improved through the 
Universal  Periodic  Review  as  well  as  through  the 
almost standing nature of the Council. 

Promoting  the  mainstreaming  of  human  rights 
within the United Nations system is an essential part of 
the Council’s mandate and is fundamental to achieving 
the  goals  of  United  Nations  reform.  The  Council 
should devote more time to its mainstreaming mandate. 

A  key  shortcoming  is  the  selectivity  in  dealing 
with urgent situations. Human rights violations in some 
parts  of  the  world  trigger  immediate  reaction  by  the 
Council; violations in other parts of the world are met 
and  victims  — 
full  potential, 
it  can  close 
to 
its 
in 
A/65/PV.43
with  complete  silence.  That  remains  a  fundamental 
shortcoming  and  affects  the  credibility  of  the  Council 
in  all  issues.  We  need  objectivity  and  clearly  defined 
thresholds for action. 

We  look  forward  to  a  continued  inclusive  and 
transparent review process in the Council as well as in 
the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Lukiyantsev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke in 

Russian):  The  Russian  Federation  is  grateful  to  the 
President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  Ambassador 
Phuangketkeow,  for  the  detailed  presentation  of  the 
report  on  the  work  of  the  Council  (A/65/53  and 
A/65/53/Add.1). For our part, we are ready to provide 
the  President  with  the  greatest  assistance  possible  in 
carrying out his important mandate. The responsibility 
of  his  mandate  is  particularly  high,  given  the  review 
process of the work of the Council  and  also decisions 
on its status. 
Last week in Geneva the review process officially 

started, and the open-ended intergovernmental working 
group,  established  on  the  initiative  of  the  Russian 
Federation,  began  its  work.  Much  remains  to  be  done 
in  the  intersessional  consultations,  which,  with  the 
assistance of the coordinators, should help us to reach 
mutually  acceptable  decisions  during 
the  second 
session of the working group. 
Nevertheless,  informal  discussions  on  this  issue 

have  been  taking  place  in  various  formats  for  more 
than a year already, and we would like to express how 
we view some of the elements of that process. 

It  can  now  confidently  be  said  that  the  Council 
has demonstrated its ability to carry out the task given 
to  it.  It  has  justified  the  trust  of  the  international 
community and does not need any far-reaching reform. 
The  reviews  should  serve  as  an  instrument  for  fine-
tuning  and  should 
removing  specific 
shortcomings  that  have  come  to  light  during  the  first 
years of its work. 

The  main  challenge  is  to  remove  any  remaining 
elements  of  politicization,  selectiveness  and  double 
standards.  In  that  regard,  we  believe  that  the  central 
theme  of  the  review  should  be  enhancing  the  spirit  of 
cooperation  and  dialogue  both  in  the  work  of  the 
Council  and  in  the  area  of  human  rights  as  a  whole. 
That  should  lead  to  the  depoliticization  of  the  United 
Nations international human rights agenda. 
focus  on 
10-61876 

13 

its 
in  2007  during 
institution-building  package  of 
A/65/PV.43 


For  that  it  is  important  to  preserve  the  positive 
experience and balance achieved by the Human Rights 
Council 
institution-building, 
including  in  terms  of  establishing  new  human  rights 
standards and also in the work of the main specialized 
procedures, including the  code of  conduct. One of the 
Council’s  undeniable  achievements  has  been 
the 
unique  mechanism  of  the  Universal  Periodic  Review 
by  peers.  It  has  become  an  effective  instrument  for 
identifying human rights problems in specific countries 
through  constructive  dialogue  and  jointly  identifying 
the means to remedy them with the direct participation 
of the concerned States. 
We  believe  that  the  review  of  the  Human  Rights 

Council  should  be  based  on 
the  principles  of 
transparency,  openness,  objectivity  and  pragmatism. 
We  must  try  to  ensure  that  the  outcome  of  the  review 
enjoys  the  greatest  possible  support.  We  must  avoid 
revisiting 
the 
Human  Rights  Council,  which  would  only  lead  to 
confrontation.  We  believe  that  the  future  outcome 
document  of 
should  be 
supplemental  to  that  package,  based  only  on  specific 
proposals  by  States  and  following  the  structure  of  the 
Council’s institution-building document. 

The  provisions  of  resolution  60/251  define  the 
arrangements  and  bodies  responsible  for  conducting 
the review of the functioning and status of the Human 
Rights Council. The issue  of the status of the Council 
comes  under  the  purview  of  the  General  Assembly. 
Nevertheless,  we  believe  it  would  be  logical  that  it 
should  be  reviewed  in  the  Assembly  only  after  the 
review  of 
functioning  has  been 
completed.  We  welcome  the  understanding  reached 
between  the  President  of  the  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly on that issue. Furthermore, the Council itself 
has the procedural capacity and expertise to allow it to 
draw up its own recommendations for the Assembly on 
the question of its status. 
the  division  of  powers 

recognizing 
between  the  Council  and  the  General  Assembly  in 
terms  of  the  review,  we  would  like  to  stress  that 
cooperation  and  coordination  between  Geneva  and 
New  York  is  both  useful  and  necessary.  We  welcome 
the  attention  given  by  the  coordinators  in  New  York, 
the  Permanent  Representatives  of  Morocco  and 
Liechtenstein, to the Geneva process. 
the  working  group 
the  Council’s 
the 
While 
actively 
to  work 
interested  parties  for 

Still on the theme of the review status,  it should 
be stressed that we are opposed to considering, in that 
context, membership criteria for the Council. By long-
standing  United  Nations  practice,  elections  to  limited 
membership  United  Nations  bodies  are  by  a  simple 
majority in the regional groups. To attempt to introduce 
any  additional  criteria  is  not  only  unrealistic  but  is  in 
conflict  with  accepted  practice.  We  are  against  the 
leading  human  rights  body  of  the  United  Nations 
system becoming a club of the chosen few. 

There are elements that could be used to improve 
the electoral procedures for the Council. For example, 
there is an interesting proposal to establish a time limit 
for  submitting  candidates  to  elections,  which  could 
make the pre-election process more transparent. 
In conclusion I would like to express the Russian 

and 
Federation’s 
readiness 
constructively  with  all 
the 
successful  review  of  the  functioning  and  status  of  the 
Human Rights Council. 
Mr.  Dabbashi  (Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke 

in  Arabic):  First  of  all,  I  would  like  to  welcome  the 
President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  to  thank 
him  for  his  statement  (see  A/65/PV.42)  and  for  his 
administration of the Council. I would also like to pay 
tribute  to  the  work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
during the last year and to the High Commissioner for 
Human  Rights  for  her  work 
in  promoting  and 
protecting human rights. 

Five years after the creation of the Human Rights 
Council  we  hope,  like  other  Member  States,  for  a 
Council that is strong, that demonstrates integrity, that 
deals  with  human  rights  issues  in  an  impartial  and 
in  a  spirit  of 
constructive  way  and 
cooperation.  Priority 
the 
fundamental  rights  of  people  as  established  under 
international  law  and  to  the  elimination  of  foreign 
occupation,  since  that  is  the  worst  violation  of  human 
rights. We hope that the Universal Periodic Review that 
began  in  Geneva  will  become  a  mechanism  that  can 
indeed promote and protect human rights and enhance 
the role of the Human Rights Council. 
The creation of the Human Rights Council led to 

a  new  phase  of  international  efforts  to  promote  and 
protect  human  rights  and  to  establish  justice  and 
equality  through  objective,  neutral  action  devoid  of 
double  standards  or  selectivity  or  politicization  — 
that  works 
should  be  given 
to 
14 

10-61876 
Over 
the  past  five  years, 


which  has,  unfortunately,  shackled  joint  international 
efforts in various forums. 

In  conducting  a  review  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council over the course of this year, in conformity with 
resolution  60/251,  we  must  recognize  and  commend 
the  work  carried  out  by  the  Council  since  it  was 
established, in terms of decisions and consultations and 
of the procedures it has adopted, as well as the support 
given to Member States and the positive outcomes that 
have  been  achieved  thanks  to  the  mechanism  of  the 
Universal  Periodic  Review.  I  must  also  mention  the 
remarkable role being played by that mechanism in the 
examination  of  complaints,  and  by 
the  Special 
Rapporteurs, which all help to promote and consolidate 
the principles of human rights. 

the  Council  has 
conducted  its  work  and  has  established  its  institutions 
and the Universal Periodic Review Mechanism, which 
seeks  to  deal  with  human  rights  issues  in  all  States  in 
an  equal  and  impartial  way,  without  any  politicization 
and avoiding political disputes. We hope that all States 
will take account of that principle and will not abrogate 
the  defence  of  human  rights  under  any  pretext, 
particularly  the  daily  violations  that  occur  in  the 
occupied  Palestinian  territories  because  of  the  Israeli 
occupation. 

Libya had the honour of being elected last May to 
the  Human  Rights  Council.  We  highly  appreciate  the 
honour 
international 
community  has  placed  in  us,  which  lays  on  us  the 
responsibility  to  promote  and  protect  human  rights, 
both  nationally  and  internationally.  The  Libyan  Arab 
Jamahiriya  has  supported 
international  peace  and 
security  as  a  member  of  the  Security  Council  during 
the  past  two  years  and  will  now,  as  a  member  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council,  work  hard  to  promote  and 
protect  human  rights  at  the  international  level,  in 
cooperation with other Member States. 

The  international  community  is  encountering 
enormous  challenges  in  on  the  area  of  human  rights, 
particularly 
the 
violations  of  human  rights  that  the  Palestinian  people 
are  suffering  under  the  Zionist  occupation  are  unique 
and  require  constant  monitoring  by  the  Human  Rights 
Council, in order that an end can be put to the killing 
of  Palestinian  civilians,  to  detentions,  even  of  women 
and  children,  to  the  destruction  of  houses  and  the 
in  areas  of  conflict.  However, 
confidence 
that 
and 
the 
A/65/PV.43
of 
of 
the 
implementation 
Archbishop  Chullikatt  (Holy  See):  As 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
razing  of  agricultural  land  and  to  the  expulsion  of 
Palestinians from their own land. 

More important, an end should be put to the war 
crimes  and  crimes  against  humanity  that  are  being 
perpetrated in the Gaza Strip and the other Palestinian 
occupied  territories.  Those  responsible  for  such  acts 
should be brought to justice so that similar acts can no 
longer  be  repeated.  There  should  also  be  constant 
monitoring 
the 
recommendations  contained  in  the  Goldstone  report 
(A/HRC/12/48)  and  other 
reports  dealing  with 
investigations  into  Zionist  crimes  committed  against 
the  Palestinian  people.  We  also  look  forward  to  the 
implementation  of 
the  Council’s  decisions  and 
recommendations,  which  are  included  in  the  report  of 
the  Human  Rights  Council  before  us  (A/65/53  and 
A/65/53/Add.1) and in previous reports. 

observer of the Holy See. 

the 
General  Assembly  takes  up  this  agenda  item,  on  the 
report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  my  delegation 
once  again  affirms  the  importance  of  the  Council  for 
promoting  universal  respect  for  the  protection  of  all 
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  for  all, 
without distinction of any kind, and in a fair and equal 
manner. 

Recognition  of  the  dignity  of  each  and  every 
person  —  which  the  Human  Rights  Council  was 
formed  to  protect  and  promote  —  entails  full  respect 
for the inner and transcendent dimension of the human 
person, which is an integral part of what it means to be 
a  human  being.  Through 
free  exercise  of 
conscience  and  moral  decision-making,  human  beings 
are  able  to  transform  themselves  into  living  members 
of  social  life,  whose  goodwill,  charity  and  hope 
promote the dignity and well-being of every member of 
the human family. 
Intrinsically  linked  to  the  freedom  of  conscience 

is the freedom of religion, by which human beings are 
able to pursue the most important relationship of their 
life,  that  is,  their  relationship  with  God.  Freedom  of 
religion necessarily entails the freedom to subscribe to 
a  set  of  beliefs,  to  adopt  or  change  one’s  religion,  to 
profess  one’s  faith  and  to  practise  that  faith  fully, 
openly and publicly. 
the 
10-61876 

15 

that 
it  must  respect 
sanctuary  of  human 
A/65/PV.43 


Governments  have  a  solemn  responsibility  to 
safeguard  rather  than  ridicule  that  inalienable  right. 
Since  the  State  is  not  the  author  of  any  fundamental 
human  right, 
intimate  and 
fundamental 
the 
freedom, 
conscience, and to allow each conscience its fullest and 
highest  expression  in  the  free  exercise  of  religious 
faith. 

International  instruments  and  declarations  have 
affirmed the responsibility of States in that regard. One 
need  only  to  call  to  mind,  for  example,  the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  which  affirms  the  right 
to freedom of thought, conscience and religion, which 
includes  freedom  to  change  one’s  religion  or  belief, 
and  freedom  —  either  alone  or  in  community  with 
others,  in  public  or  private  —  to  manifest  one’s 
religion  or  belief  in  teaching,  practise,  worship  and 
observance. 

Like every other freedom, the freedom of religion 
must fit harmoniously into the context of all legitimate 
and  authentic  human  freedoms.  This  vital  freedom 
must also develop harmoniously, with attentive respect 
for the  freedom of religion of others in  the context of 
just  laws  that  apply  to  all.  Governments  have  a 
responsibility  to  promote  and  guarantee  this  general 
atmosphere of responsible freedom. 

religious 
intolerance,  discrimination  and  violence  directed 
against  members  of  many 
religious  minorities, 
including  Christians,  in  various  parts  of  the  world,  in 
the  form  of  attacks  on  religious  sites  in  violation  of 
international law and suppression of individuals’ public 
expression of their beliefs. 

that  regard,  my  delegation  recalls  with 
profound sorrow the recent siege of the Church of Our 
Lady  of  Deliverance,  the  Syrian  Catholic  cathedral  in 
Baghdad,  which  caused  the  violent  death  of  so  many 
Christian faithful — some of whom I knew personally, 
including  the  two  priests  who  were  murdered,  Tha’ir 
Saad and Boutros Wasim. 

The  response  to  that  latest  example  of  brutal 
attacks  against  Christians,  in  total  contempt  for  their 
lives and their dignity, needs to be complete respect for 
the  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  of  every 
individual.  Constitutional  and  legislative  systems  are 
unjust when they fail to provide adequate and effective 
guarantees  of  freedom  of  thought,  conscience  and 
religion  to  all.  Each  and  every  Government  needs  to 
instances  of 
remain 
Today 
there 
In 
this  right 
instruments,  but 
Education,  especially  of  young  people, 
work  all  the  more  to  guarantee  fully  the  right  to  life, 
freedom  of  thought,  conscience,  religion  or  belief  for 
each and every person. 

Not only do Governments bear responsibility, but 
individuals and communities likewise need to promote 
tolerance, mutual understanding and respect among the 
followers of the various faith traditions. 

is 
important  in  promoting  such  a  culture  of  peaceful 
coexistence,  with  parents  having 
the  primary 
responsibility  for  the  upbringing  and  development  of 
their  child.  Their  right  to  do  so  is  secured  by 
international 
is  often 
compromised  by  the  will  of  the  State.  In  that  regard, 
parents  must  be  fully  respected  in  their  freedom  to 
ensure  the  religious  and  moral  education  of  their 
children, in conformity with their own convictions. 

The importance of education, especially of young 
people, in promoting values and mutual respect among 
persons  brings  to  mind  the  important  role  of  those 
engaged  in  educational  efforts,  especially  the  primary 
role  of  parents.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation  cannot 
but  be  dismayed  by  the  most  recent  report  of  the 
former  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  right  to  education 
(see  A/65/162)  and  his  thoughts  on  comprehensive 
sexual  education,  especially  in  the  context  of  the 
family  and  the  community.  That  is  contrary  to  long-
established  and 
juridical 
norms  that  protect  fundamental  and  universal  human 
rights. 
We  know  that  a  man  and  a  woman  united  in 

marriage,  together  with  their  children,  form  a  family, 
which  is  the  natural  and  fundamental  unit  of  society. 
The  institution  of  marriage  is  prior  to  any  recognition 
by  public  authority,  which  has  an  obligation 
to 
recognize and protect it. In the family the child is able 
to  learn  moral  values,  begin  to  honour  God  and  make 
good  use  of  freedom.  Family  life  is  thus  an  initiation 
into life in society. 

International  instruments  consistently  affirm  the 
right  and  responsibility  of  parents  in  the  education  of 
their children. Such instruments rightly affirm that the 
decision regarding the education of the child rests with 
the  parents.  In  that  regard,  it  is  important  that  those 
who  hold  mandates  to  report  on  certain  aspects  of 
human rights be faithful to the principles of the United 
Nations  Charter  and  the  applicable  human  rights 
internationally  acclaimed 
16 

10-61876 
the  parents,  who  have 


instruments.  To  do  otherwise 
fundamental human rights. 

The  best  interests  of  the  child  are  the  basic 
concern  of 
the  primary 
responsibility  for  the  upbringing  and  development  of 
their children. Any attempt to create a division between 
the  primary  responsibility  of  parents  and  the  best 
interests  of  their  children,  as  the  report  of  the  Special 
Rapporteur  appears  to  do,  does  a  disservice  to  the 
child,  the  parents,  marriage  and  the  family,  as  well  as 
to the future generation overall. 

What is needed instead is respect for the child by 
the  support  of  the  family,  which  for  the  child  is  the 
healthiest  environment  in  which  to  be  raised.  It  is  not 
the  State  but  parents  who  have  primary  responsibility 
for the education of their children. My delegation takes 
this  opportunity 
intergenerational 
importance of this responsibility. 
restate 
the 
to 
is 
to 
imperil  all 
A/65/PV.43
A  fundamental  respect  for  human  rights 

Human rights are based on the inherent dignity of 
the human person. Those inalienable rights are founded 
in  the  natural  moral  order,  and  they  are  discernible 
through right reason, which is universal. My delegation 
must be candid: human rights do not change any more 
than human nature can change. 

is 
enshrined  in  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  other 
international  instruments.  States  are  called  to  fully 
respect  these  rights,  and  the  Human  Rights  Council 
exists  to  assist  them  in  that  regard.  The  more  the 
Human  Rights  Council  is  faithful  to  its  purpose,  the 
more it will be able to be of service to all, rather than 
to just some. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker  in  the  debate  on  this  item. The Assembly  has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 63. 


  The meeting rose at 4.45 p.m. 
10-61876 

17 
