
A/65/PV.8
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

8th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 22 September 2010, 10 a.m. 
New York 





Co-Chair: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki . . . . . . .
Co-Chair: Mr. Joseph Deiss . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(President of the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session)
(President of the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session) 





  The meeting was called to order at 10 a.m. 





High-level Plenary Meeting on the Millennium 
Development Goals 
Agenda items 13 and 115 (continued) 
Integrated and coordinated implementation of and 
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United 
Nations conferences and summits in the economic, 
social and related fields 
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit 
  Draft resolution (A/65/L.1) 

The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French): 

The General Assembly will now hear an address by His 
Excellency  Mr.  Viktor  Yanukovych,  President  of 
Ukraine. 
President  Yanukovych  (spoke  in  Ukrainian; 

English interpretation provided by the delegation): The 
adoption of the United Nations Millennium Declaration 
was  crucial  to  the  world’s  Governments’  recognizing 
the common global nature of development goals and to 
resolving  the  problems  facing  humankind.  Solidarity 
among  States,  mutual  support  and  responsibility  are 
key to the well-being of each country and of the world 
as a whole. 

the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  have  become  the  real 
agenda  for  global  human  development  and  a  general 
imperative  for  all  Governments.  From 
this  high 
Today,  we  can 
that 
say 
to 
the 
reach 
rostrum, I wish to reaffirm the will of the new political 
leaders  of  Ukraine 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals, as well as our commitment to the 
broadest  international  cooperation  under  the  auspices 
of the United Nations. 

The  action  plan  of  the  new  Government  of 
Ukraine and the programme of reforms initiated by me 
as  President  both  have  a  social  orientation.  They  are 
therefore closely associated with the implementation of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Ukraine  has  set 
itself 
task  of  carrying  out  comprehensive 
modernization  of  its  economy  and  an  active  social 
policy.  We  have  launched  systemic  structural  reforms 
to  establish  a  powerful  and  modern  technology-based 
economy,  ensure  high  living  standards  and  protect  the 
most vulnerable groups. 

Mr.  Haroon  (Pakistan),  Vice-President  of  the 
General Assembly, took the Chair. 

The  Millennium  Development  Goals  are  both 
guidelines and a system of priorities to implement the 
strategy of reforms in Ukraine, as they reflect the most 
dramatic  problems 
today. 
Committed  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
Ukraine  considers  their  achievement  to  be  a  major 
target  for  its  national  economy.  The  priorities  of  this 
policy  are  to  ensure  the  well-being  of  the  people, 
reduce  poverty,  achieve  high  health  care  standards, 
combat  HIV/AIDS 
ensure 
accessibility  to  high  quality  education,  safeguard  the 
environment and promote gender equality. 
that  our  society  faces 
tuberculosis, 
and 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-54521 (E) 
*1054521* 

social 
the  MDGs.  Most 
A/65/PV.8 


Ukraine  has  established  national  targets  for  a 
number of the Millennium Development Goals that are 
even  higher  than  the  international  ones.  Over  the  past 
10 years, Ukraine has adopted a number of sectoral and 
intersectoral  programmes  aimed  at  implementing  the 
Millennium Development Goals. The Goals themselves 
have  become  a  cornerstone  of  our  social  development 
strategy  and  a  conceptual  framework  for  Ukraine’s 
cooperation  with  international  contributors.  We  have 
submitted  to  the  Secretariat  our  national  report  on  the 
Millennium  Development  Goal  indicators  that  were 
established  for  Ukraine.  As  can  be  seen  from  the 
report, Ukraine has made substantial progress. 
In  general,  Ukraine  is  successfully  meeting  its 

important,  by 
objectives  under 
standards,  we  have 
increasing  minimum 
significantly  reduced the percentage  of  our population 
living  below  the  poverty  line.  Ukraine  also  performs 
quite well in the area of education, where we continue 
to carry out reforms.   The  health  care  situation  has 
improved  substantially,  with  notable  achievements  in 
reducing  child  mortality  and 
improving  maternal 
health.  Our  current  objectives  are  to  keep  working  on 
gender  equality  and  improving  the  environment.  Our 
utmost  concern 
the 
HIV/AIDS  epidemic,  a  problem  on  which  we  must 
focus special efforts. 
As  in  most  other  countries,  our  work  to  achieve 

the  Millennium  Development  Goals  was  severely 
the  global  economic  crisis,  which 
hampered  by 
affected  almost  all  sectors  of 
the  economy  and 
thousands  of  businesses  and  painfully  impacted  the 
well-being of millions of our fellow citizens. With pre-
crisis sources of rapid growth exhausted, the only way 
for  Ukraine  to  achieve  sustainable  development  is  to 
carry  out  decisive  and  comprehensive  reforms  to 
improve 
the  competitiveness  of  our  economy, 
combined with a reasonable and balanced social policy. 
We  thank  the  international  community  and  the 

organizations  and  Governments 
the 
development  process  in  our  country.  We  are  open  to 
further cooperation. At the same time, we are ready to 
continue 
the 
international  community  in  resolving  global  problems 
and achieving the Millennium Development Goals. 

We feel a sense of responsibility for meeting the 
challenges  of  the  world  food  crisis.  Last  year  for  the 
first time, Ukraine became a contributor to the United 
to  work  as  a  reliable  partner  of 
the  situation  concerning 
that  support 
is 

this  year  our  country  has  been  able 
Nations World Food Programme. I am convinced that, 
in  the  very  near  future,  our  robust  agricultural  sector 
can  make  our  country  an  important  player  in  global 
efforts to overcome hunger in a number of the world’s 
regions. 
Despite  the  difficulties  caused  by  the  financial 

crisis, 
to 
accumulate  resources  and  assist  the  people  of  Haiti 
through 
the  United  Nations  Central  Emergency 
Response  Fund.  Assisting  countries  in  trouble  is  our 
traditional and constant practice at the bilateral level. 

I believe that the Millennium Development Goals 
are realistic and attainable. To reach them, we need to 
seek  consistent  internal  efforts  by  each  country  and 
close cooperation between all the nations of the world. 
Ukraine is ready for such efforts and cooperation. 
The Acting Chair: The Assembly will now hear 

an address by His Excellency Mr. Mahinda Rajapaksa, 
President  of  the  Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri 
Lanka. 
President Rajapaksa: Ten years ago, at the dawn 

of the new millennium, we reaffirmed our commitment 
to  consolidating  efforts  in  the  spirit  of  collective 
responsibility  in  order  to  free  our  world  from  hunger, 
uphold  human  dignity 
sustainable 
coexistence  with  mother  nature.  We  set  for  ourselves 
the  goal  of  advancing  progress  in  eight  key  areas  by 
the year 2015.  

Today, with just five years left, we have obtained 
mixed  results.  Amidst  the  multiple  interrelated  and 
worsening global crises that have confronted our world 
in  the  past  few  years,  some  countries  have  suffered 
setbacks  in  achieving  those  goals,  while  others  have 
scored  remarkable  success.  Yet  we  still  have  time  to 
renew the political will and look for a way forward to 
reach  the  targets  that  have  been  set  by  harnessing  our 
synergies.  It  is  in  that  context  that  this  High-level 
Meeting  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations 
assumes special significance. 

Although  each  individual  country  has  a  sacred 
responsibility  to  ensure  the  welfare  of  its  people,  we 
cannot  survive 
increasingly 
interconnected  and  globalized  world.  We  cannot 
survive  in  isolation.  Hence,  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  is  ever  more  important  to  the 
collective interest. 
isolation 
in  an 
ensure 
and 
in 
2 

10-54521 
to 
to 
sources 
continue 



The  recent  global  economic  and  financial  crisis 
has  severely  reduced  access  to  external  resources  and 
private capital flows for developing countries. In such 
circumstances, there should be genuine commitment to 
fulfilling  donor  obligations.  Unfortunately,  the  trend 
towards more restrictions and protectionist measures in 
trade, debt relief  and  access to technology is posing  a 
challenge  to  development.  We  therefore  need  to  act 
with  a  sense  of  urgency  and  partnership. At  the  same 
time,  it  is  important  for  development  assistance  from 
external 
encourage 
sustainability. 

Our  national  policy  has  been  developed  within 
the  framework  of  global  priorities  that  we  consider  to 
be appropriate at this time. In the South Asian context, 
some  of  our  urgent  concerns  include  food  security, 
energy  security  and  global  warming.  Building  up 
buffer stocks of essential food items and ensuring price 
stabilization  and  the  continuity  of  supplies  calls  for  a 
more systematic approach to international cooperation. 

We are convinced that, if economic development 
is  to  be  sustainable,  it  must  include  emphasis  on  the 
protection  of  the  environment.  Green  technology  in 
industrial  production  is  therefore  one  of  the  central 
needs  of  our  time.  Improving  infrastructure  in  our 
villages 
social 
advancement  are  necessary 
to  discourage  mass 
movements  of  populations  from  rural  areas  into  our 
towns.  Gender  equality  and  the  breakdown  of  social 
barriers  are  features  of  a  peaceful  society. We  believe 
that equity with regard to the distribution of wealth and 
access to essential services are hallmarks of long-term 
stability. 

Since independence, social development goals in 
Sri  Lanka,  such  as  free  health  care  and  access  to 
education,  have  been  embedded  in  our  country’s 
overall policy framework. In addition, through my own 
vision  spelled  out  in  the  Mahinda  Chinthana  —  or 
“Vision  for  the  Future”  —  we  have  embarked  upon  a 
10-year  pro-poor-  and  development-oriented  framework 
to  further  consolidate  and  accelerate  socio-economic 
progress, which is equally important. 

It  is  our  deep  conviction  that  the  wellsprings  of 
our  civilization,  nurtured  by  the  Buddhist  tradition, 
should  guide  our  approach  to  economic  and  social 
policymaking.  At  the  core  of  that,  there  must  be  a 
sound scale of values. Nowhere is that better expressed 
than  in  the  Mahaparinibbana  Sutta,  the  final  sermon 
and  providing  opportunity 
for 
A/65/PV.8
preached  by  Gauthama  the  Buddha,  in  which  he 
declares  that  the  moral  worth  of  any  society  can  be 
assessed by a clear yardstick that consists of the quality 
of  treatment  meted  out  to  women  and  children.  In 
building  a  caring  and  compassionate  society  over  the 
centuries, we have never lost sight of that ideal. 

Sri  Lanka  has  incorporated  key  performance 
indicators  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs) into our national budget policies. As a result, 
Sri  Lanka  has  already  attained  or  is  on  track  to 
attaining the MDGs despite formidable odds, including 
almost 30 years of a violent terrorist movement and the 
December  2004  Indian  Ocean  tsunami,  which  brought 
massive devastation to my country. 

In  terms  of  universal  primary  enrolment  and 
completion, we had recorded a level of almost 100 per 
cent  by  2007.  Gender  parity  in  primary  education  has 
reached  99  per  cent.  In  secondary  and 
tertiary 
enrolment,  the  ratio  of  girls  to  boys  exceeds  100  per 
cent.  The  challenge  now  is  to  further  enhance  the 
quality of our education to empower and prepare young 
people  for  productive  employment.  We  have  also 
undertaken  vigorous  measures  to  enhance  computer 
literacy 
called 
Nenasala —  “wisdom  centres”  —  covering  mostly 
rural areas. 

In  the  health  sector,  our  endeavour  is  to  ensure 
that  every  expectant  mother  has  a  safe,  attended 
delivery and to immediately increase the current 98 per 
cent  rate  in  such  births  to  100  per  cent.  Infant  and 
under-five mortality rates decreased from 32 per 1,000 
births  in  1990  to  11.3  per  1,000  in  2009.  While  our 
focus has been on countering tropical epidemics, such 
as  malaria  and  other  vector-borne  diseases,  we  now 
need  to  pay  adequate  attention  to  forms  of  non-
communicable diseases that pose a serious challenge to 
our health sectors. We  would therefore  urge that there 
be  access  to  medicines  at  a  reasonable  cost  and  more 
predictable 
to 
develop local capacities in order to improve conditions 
for patients. 

While  we  strive  to  achieve  reasonable  living 
standards,  we  must  not  forget  the  need  to  avoid 
treading  heavily  on  the  natural  environment.  The 
current spate of natural disasters and frequent floods in 
countries  throughout  the  world  are  stark  reminders  of 
the  effects  of  environmental  degradation.  We  must, 
with a sense of urgency, reach consensus on curtailing 
a  nation-wide  project 
technical  assistance 
financial  and 
through 
10-54521 

3 

While  posing  a 
A/65/PV.8 

global warming based on the principle of common but 
differentiated responsibility and the Bali Action Plan. 

threat,  every  crisis  brings 
opportunity as well. Let us therefore resolve to use the 
opportunity  afforded  by  this  High-level  Meeting  to 
forge the strongest possible global platform to achieve 
the goals so necessary for our common good. 
The Acting Chair: The Assembly will now hear 

an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Valdis  Zatlers, 
President of the Republic of Latvia. 
President  Zatlers:  With  five  years  left  to  reach 

the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  this 
High-level  Plenary  Meeting  is  a  key  opportunity  to 
strengthen our political engagement to reach the MDGs 
by 2015. 

Significant  progress  has  been  made  thus  far 
towards  attaining the Millennium Development Goals. 
Still,  there  are  many  countries  and  areas  where 
additional  efforts  are  needed.  Improving  results  and 
targeting  key  sectors  —  such  as  gender,  education, 
health  and  food  security  —  are  of 
the  utmost 
importance.  Latvia  believes  that  in  order  to  accelerate 
progress  towards  the  MDGs,  there  is  a  need  for  a 
strengthened  global  partnership  for  development,  as 
reflected in MDG 8. 

National  ownership  and  a  holistic  approach  that 
takes  into  account  individual  goals  and  cross-cutting 
issues,  such  as  good  governance,  peace  and  security, 
human 
should  be 
maintained  for  the  achievement  of  the  MDGs.  As  a 
member  of  the  European  Union  (EU),  Latvia  can 
affirm  the  readiness  of  the  EU  to  focus  efforts  on  the 
countries  most  off-track. At  the  same  time,  we  should 
continue to reward good performance. 

We  have  not  managed  to  reach  the  goals  of 
development  financing, which must be  met during the 
next  five  years.  However,  financial  aid  alone  is  not 
enough  to  ensure  development  progress  in  partner 
countries.  Much  greater  emphasis  must  be  placed  on 
improving  aid  effectiveness.  The  cost  of  aid 
fragmentation and duplication can reach several billion 
euros annually. 

Latvia is a new donor. We are gradually building 
our aid policy. But it is already clear that, if a country 
of  our  size  is  to  have  a  positive  impact,  we  have  to 
concentrate on providing development aid in a smaller 
number of partner countries. In addition, we have to go 
rights  and  gender  equality, 
the 
and 
policy 
Development  aid  can  be  effective  only 
into  sectors  where  our  presence  provides  the  most 
added  value  and  our  experience  and  expertise 
correspond to the needs of the partner country. 

As  a  member  of  the  EU,  we  see  the  transfer  of 
our  still  recent  transition  experience  to  our  partner 
countries  in  the  EU  eastern  neighbourhood  and  the 
Central Asia region as our comparative advantage and 
our  particular  niche  in  the  EU’s  development  policy. 
Our  efforts  have  proved  to  be  a  valuable  contribution 
that  helps  to  promote  good  governance  practices  and 
sustainability  in  partner  countries.  Latvia  is  fully 
committed  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  all 
the  more  so  owing  to  the  fact  that  Latvia’s  European 
Union presidency in the first half of 2015 will coincide 
with a pivotal year for global development policy. 
in 

countries  where 
institutional 
environment  is  conducive  to  poverty  reduction  and 
sustainable  economic  development.  Our  responsibility 
is  to  support  partner  countries  in  their  domestic 
capacity-building  efforts.  Latvia  therefore  welcomes 
Afghanistan’s  national  development  strategy.  Latvia 
has  been  actively  involved  in  supporting  development 
processes in Afghanistan in the areas of the rule of law, 
the  social  and  economic  empowerment  of  women, 
water  and  sanitation.  Together  with  our  European 
partners, we remain committed to supporting the long-
term  development  of  Afghanistan  and  providing 
expertise  that  could  be  useful  to  Afghan  domestic 
capacity-building efforts. 

The  road  to  development  is  not  easy. The  global 
community  faces  unexpected  challenges  to  achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  people  of 
the  devastating 
Latvia  were  deeply  shocked  by 
earthquake 
and 
contributed 
immediate  assistance.  I  am  proud  that  Latvia  also 
finances  Haiti’s  long-term  development  by  funding  a 
targeted  recovery  and  rebuilding  project  in  the  central 
part of the country. 

Achieving  the  MDGs  requires  political  will  and 
broad  public  support.  That  challenge  is  particularly 
true  today  when  we  face  the  impact  of  the  global 
economic  and  financial  crisis.  We  have  to  make  an 
even greater effort to promote global awareness among 
politicians,  especially  parliamentarians,  and  the  wider 
public.  We  highly  value  the  efforts  of  the  European 
Commission, and especially of Commissioner Piebalgs, 
as  well  as 
those  of  Latvian  non-governmental 
struck  Haiti, 
that 
4 

10-54521 
call 
Global 
challenges 


organizations, in educating society on issues associated 
with the Millennium Development Goals. 

collective 
for 
responsibility  to  be  assumed  by  all  stakeholders, 
including  civil  society,  social  partners,  the  private 
sector  and  multilateral  organizations.  We  are  the  ones 
who have to demonstrate strong and concrete political 
commitment  to  stepping  up  efforts  to  reach  the 
Millennium  Development Goals.  It is  our opportunity. 
It is our duty. 
The Acting Chair: The Assembly will now hear 

an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ivan  Gašparovič, 
President of the Slovak Republic. 
President Gašparovič (spoke in Slovak; English 

interpretation provided by the delegation): The United 
Nations  High-level  Meeting  on 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  is  taking  place  at  a  time 
of  exceptional  global  challenges.  In  the  immediate 
aftermath  of  the  global  economic  downturn,  this 
summit provides us with an opportunity to reaffirm the 
determination  of  developed  countries  to  participate  in 
the  development  of  partner  countries.  In  my  view,  it 
can also give new impetus to our debate on experiences 
in the process of achieving the MDGs and the lessons 
learned from the global crisis. 

In  this  new  situation,  Slovakia  attaches  the 
utmost importance to the fulfilment of the Millennium 
Development  Goals.  They  reflect  the  most  sensitive 
problems of our global world which, unless addressed, 
will  hamper  any  endeavour  to  achieve  sustainable 
security  and  social  and  economic  stability  and  to 
ensure  the  quality  of  the  planet’s  environment.  Their 
successful 
conditions 
favourable  to  the  efficient  pursuit  of  the  principles  of 
the  protection  of  human  rights  and  freedoms,  whose 
absence  makes  the  building  of  a  just  and  prosperous 
society impossible. 

The achievement of the Millennium Development 
Goals  and  sustainable  development,  including  the 
economic  development  of  our  partner  countries, 
depends on national ownership and good governance in 
developing  countries.  Each  country  is  responsible  for 
its own economic and social development. All national 
development  policies  and  strategies  must  respect  that 
basic  principle,  and  all  domestic  resources  must  be 
effectively mobilized and utilized to that end. 
achievement  will 
create 
A/65/PV.8
to 
improve 
importance  are  efforts 

Progress  to  date  shows  that  the  achievement  of 
the  Goals  has  been  uneven  in  geographical  and 
thematic  terms.  Moreover,  the  Goals  are  intertwined; 
the fulfilment of one is contingent upon the fulfilment 
of  others.  Progress  is  lagging  behind,  primarily  on 
Goal  1,  on  the  eradication  of  extreme  poverty  and 
hunger; Goal 2, on universal primary education, mainly 
on the gender aspect of access to education; Goal 3, on 
gender  equality,  chiefly  the  empowerment  of  women; 
and,  in  particular,  Goal  5,  on  maternal  health.  Serious 
challenges in this regard persist in sub-Saharan Africa 
in  particular,  and  in  the  least  developed  countries  in 
general. On the other hand, we have been hearing good 
news  from  South,  South-East  and  East  Asia,  where 
robust  economic  growth  is  fuelling  poverty-reduction 
endeavours across the region. 

I am sure that most would agree that, based on a 
thorough  analysis  of  the  situation  in  the  poorest 
countries of Africa, or of the world for that matter, the 
key  task  is  to  support  economic  growth  and  the 
creation  of  new  jobs  in  developing  countries.  Of  no 
lesser 
the 
environment  for  good  political  governance,  eliminate 
corruption  and  prevent  armed  conflicts.  Two-thirds  of 
the countries with the greatest difficulties in achieving 
the  Development  Goals  are  those  that  have  recently 
experienced  or  are  currently  experiencing  armed 
conflict.  

I  wish  to  highlight  the  importance  of  domestic 
efforts  to  be  made  by  partner  countries.  In  order  to 
increase  domestic  revenue,  it  is  necessary  to  improve 
tax administration and the transparency of tax policies, 
combat tax evasion and create conditions conducive to 
the  inflow  of  foreign  direct  investment.  One  problem 
lies  in  the  continued  failure  to  reach  an  agreement  in 
multilateral  trade  negotiations;  the  remaining  barriers 
hinder  the  developing  countries’  access  to  world 
markets.  

Climate  change  is  the  reason  that  the  issue  of 
food  security  is  becoming  increasingly  important. 
Natural  disasters  have  thrown  millions  into  extreme 
poverty  and  hunger.  I  believe  it  necessary  to  continue 
investing  in  education  and  health  care,  in  particular 
vaccinations.  The  persistently  high  maternal  mortality 
in  the  countries  of  sub-Saharan  Africa  is  particularly 
alarming. 

eradicate  gender 
Slovakia supports efforts to reduce and eventually 
to 
inequalities.  Factors  relating 
10-54521 

5 

and 
for  Gender  Equality 
their  countries’  commitments 
A/65/PV.8 

women are of key importance to the implementation of 
the MDGs, since women represent two-thirds of those 
living  in  extreme  poverty.  That  is  why  Slovakia 
welcomes  the  recent  establishment  of  the  United 
Nations  Entity 
the 
Empowerment  of  Women,  and  appreciates  the  United 
Nations endeavours in the field of gender equality. 

If the MDGs are to be achieved in all countries, it 
is necessary to look  for ways to  ensure  more  efficient 
financing,  with  particular  emphasis  on  the  key  role  of 
the private sector. The recent Third World Conference 
of  Speakers  of  Parliament  confirmed  that,  within  the 
framework  of  debates  concerning  the  drafting  of 
national  budgets,  national  parliaments  should  exert 
pressure and actively encourage national Governments 
to  honour 
towards 
achieving the MDGs. 

The Slovak Republic, as an industrialized nation, 
is  aware  of  its  responsibility  for  global  development. 
Within  the  framework  of  its  medium-term  policy  for 
official  development  assistance 
(ODA),  Slovakia 
annually allocates specific funds to support developing 
countries  and  those  in  transition,  despite  its  tight 
budgetary  constraints.  We  are  determined  to  uphold 
this  policy  going  forward.  Although  the  ODA  thus 
provided  is  not  huge  in  terms  of  volume,  our  partner 
countries  highly  appreciate  the  activities  and  results 
achieved  thanks  to  our  funding.  This  is  due  in 
particular  to  our  efficient  system  of  aid  provision, 
based  on  profound  knowledge  of  local  conditions  and 
the identification of needs in partner countries. 

As  an  example,  let  me  mention  the  area  of 
Southern  Sudan,  where  Slovakia  contributes,  under 
Goal 2, to the effort to reduce illiteracy through gender 
equality-based  projects  for  the  education  of  children 
and  adults.  Other  projects  in  the  region  focus  on  the 
prevention  of  HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  other  diseases. 
In  Kenya,  Ethiopia,  Cambodia,  Viet  Nam,  Uganda, 
Zambia and Haiti, the development projects sponsored 
by  Slovakia  address  the  provision  of  comprehensive 
health  and  social  care 
those  diagnosed  with 
HIV/AIDS,  thus  contributing  towards  achieving  Goal 
6.  The  main  objective  of  these  projects  is  to  provide 
decent living conditions to HIV-negative newborns and 
to improve the quality of life of HIV-positive mothers, 
children  and  adults.  A  significant  part  of  the  aid 
provided  by  the  Slovak  Republic  has  been  directed 
towards  achieving  sustainable  development,  mainly  in 
Kenya,  Afghanistan,  Mozambique  and  Mongolia. 
to 
I  wish 
that 
to  emphasize 
President  Martinelli  Berrocal
the  fulfilment  of  such 
of  mankind, 
Slovakia’s  development  aid  is  focused  on  the  most 
vulnerable and the poorest segments of society. 

the  provision  of 
development aid is a responsibility not only of national 
Governments,  but  also  of  all  components  of  civil 
society.  The  Government  of  Slovakia  is  in  regular 
discussions  with  all  stakeholders  and  places  a 
particular  emphasis  on  building  awareness  in  order  to 
win broad popular support for these activities. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  effusively  thank 
those  representatives  and  delegations  that  have  been 
actively  involved  in  the  preparation  of  the  final 
document of this summit (A/65/L.1) for their work and 
effort.  I  believe  that  the  document  will  give  strong 
impetus  to  all  towards  mobilizing  the  necessary  effort 
and resources for the final stages of the process leading 
important  and  noble 
to 
resolutions 
as 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals undoubtedly are. 
The Acting Chair: The Assembly will now hear 

an  address  by  His  Excellency  Ricardo  Martinelli 
Berrocal, President of the Republic of Panama. 
in 

Spanish): It is an honour to address Member States and 
the  international  community.  I  have  come  here  to 
reaffirm  that  the  Republic  of  Panama  is  making 
progress 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  by  the  established  deadline.  The 
Goals  are  a  platform  and  common  vision  for  fair 
human  development.  if  they  are  to  be  achieved,  they 
will have to be shared by the countries represented here 
in  an  alliance  of  Governments,  political  forces,  the 
private sector and citizens.  

Our  strategy  for  development  is  based  on  two 
pillars.  The 
to  deepen  our  economy’s 
involvement in the international context; the second is 
to  strengthen  our  human  and  productive  capacities. 
Human resources are the key. In the midst of a global 
economic  crisis,  Panama  has  maintained  significant 
growth thanks to good policies and competitiveness. As 
a  result  of  Panama’s  coherent  and  balanced  fiscal 
reform  and  a  sustained  country  strategy,  the  three 
credit  rating  agencies  —  Standard  &  Poor’s,  Moody’s 
and  Fitch  —  rated  Panama  at  the  level  of  investment 
grade  this  year.  Recently,  the World  Economic  Forum 
moved  us  up  by 
the  Global 
Competitiveness  Index.  We  rose  from  59  to  53,  the 
largest  jump  in  the  past  five  years  and  the  second 
six  points 
achieving 
towards 
first 
is 
(spoke 
in 
6 

10-54521 


largest in Latin America. We have established Panama 
in  the  eyes  of  the  world  as  an  excellent  place  to  do 
business and to invest.  

Our  economic  growth  is  generating  more  and 
better  jobs  for  our  population.  It  is  also  attracting 
international  companies  and  providing  domestic 
companies  with  the  opportunity  to  grow  further.  This 
raises  our  income,  which  means  that  we  can  invest 
increasing amounts in social programmes.  

We  have  made  significant  progress  in  achieving 
the Millennium Development Goals. The most relevant 
of  these  are  the  ones  we  would  like  to  mention  now. 
For example, in terms of the population living on less 
than  one  dollar  a  day,  we  have  reduced  the  national 
figure from 19.6 per cent in 1997 to 12.63 per cent in 
2008.  
We  have  increased  preschool  enrolment  in  order 

to  ensure  universal  primary  education  and 
the 
eradication of illiteracy. We have ensured that 93.2 per 
cent of the population has access to the basic services 
of  drinking  water  and  sanitation.  We  have  created  a 
“solidarity  housing  voucher”  in  order  to  enable  a 
significant  portion  of  those  in  the  formal  economy  to 
buy a family home.  
We  have  made  significant  progress  in  bringing 

about  gender  equality  by  reaching 
the  goal  of 
providing  access  to  education  in  non-indigenous  areas 
of  the  country.  We  have  reduced  unemployment  and 
provided social security coverage for more than 70 per 
cent of our population.  

We  have  reduced  mortality  from  measles  and 
other  infectious  diseases  by  90  per  cent  thanks  to  a 
vaccination programme for children under five years of 
age.  We  have  reduced  the  maternal  mortality  rate  to 
below 
the 
Caribbean. We provide free anti-retroviral medications 
to those infected with HIV/AIDS. 

We are fighting hunger and malnutrition, creating 
22,000 vegetable gardens for schools and families. We 
have  created  the Advisory  Council  on  Infancy,  which 
promotes breast-feeding and healthy eating habits, thus 
preventing  chronic  diseases  and  decreasing  the  child 
mortality rate.  

We have begun a programme called “100 for 70”, 
which is a system that gives $100 a month to more than 
92,000  people  above  age  70  who  do  not  have  a 
retirement  pension  or  social  security.  We  have  also 
for  Latin  America  and 
the  average 
A/65/PV.8
a 
programme 
the  same 
increasing 
in 
low-productivity 
rural  areas. 
called  Network 
We  have  created 
of 
than  70,000 
established 
Opportunities,  which  benefits  more 
families living in extreme poverty.  

the  Universal  Scholarship 
programme,  which  will  benefit  800,000  students  who, 
regardless  of  political  leanings,  can  have  access  to 
education,  thus  reducing  school  attrition  rates  and 
strengthening  the  team  that  is  made  up  of  educators, 
parents  and  students.  We  have  reformed  the  primary 
and  secondary  school  curriculum, 
the 
quality  of  education.  This  is  the  real  driver  behind 
equal opportunity and true social mobility. 

We still have many challenges before us in order 
to  achieve  the  MDGs  by  2015.  This  is  why  we  must 
strengthen  our  fight  against  poverty  in  indigenous 
regions  and 
In 
indigenous areas, 58 per cent of the population lives in 
extreme  poverty,  only  66  per  cent  have  access  to 
drinking  water  and  43  per  cent  have  access  to 
sanitation services.  

We  are  creating  a  network  of  free  medical  care 
centres  across  the  country,  particularly  in  indigenous 
areas.  We  are  building  eight  hospitals  in  key  areas  of 
the  country.  At 
time,  we  are  adding 
37 innovative  primary  health  care  centres,  called 
MINSA-CAPSI, 
social-security-funded 
polyclinics.  We  are  also  building  a  modern  Hospital 
City  in  the  capital,  which  will  ensure  better  medical 
care  for  the  country  and  improve  all  of  our  health 
indicators. 
Panama,  with  the  support  of  all  world  leaders 

together, will promote various health technologies and 
endeavour  to  ensure  that  medicines  reach  all  the  most 
needy sectors of the population. We will also continue 
to close the technology gap by providing free access to 
all  marginalized  sectors  of  the  population. We  are  the 
first country in the world to have free border-to-border 
wireless Internet coverage available to all.  
We  undertake  to  conclude  the  Doha  Round  as 

soon as possible in order to shore up the work of local 
producers  and  open  up  international  markets.  We  will 
also  work  towards  the  shared  vision  of  and  efforts 
aimed  at  reaching  a  significant  agreement  on  global 
climate change. 

The  Millennium  Development  Goals  are  not 
negotiable, nor are they subject to conditions. They are 
above  political  and  personal  interests.  I  am  very 
and 
eight 
10-54521 

7 
A/65/PV.8 

grateful for the support the United Nations system has 
given us, as well as the support of its various entities in 
helping  us  to  pursue  these  priorities.  It  is  up  to  us  to 
ensure that they are fulfilled without excuses, because 
they  are  essential 
the  social  policy  of  my 
Government, and we will continue forging ahead until 
we achieve them. 
The Acting Chair: The Assembly will now hear 

an address by His Excellency General François Bozizé, 
President of the Central African Republic. 
President Bozizé (spoke in French): The Central 

African  Republic,  through  me,  is  honoured  to  meet 
today with other countries of the world to take part in 
this exceptional event exclusively devoted to reviewing 
the progress made by each one of us over the past ten 
years  towards  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs).  

Before I address the subject at hand, allow me to 
commend the Secretary-General for this very welcome 
initiative. I will also take this opportunity to convey to 
the  delegations  present  the  gratitude  of  the  people  of 
the Central African Republic for the attention given to 
our  country  by  all  the  members  of  the  international 
community during the trying ordeals we endured at the 
beginning of this third millennium and for the support 
they have provided to us. 
The  Central  African  Republic  entered  the  third 

millennium  with  a  major  handicap.  It  was  already 
bearing  the  marks  of  serious  trauma  and  was  on  a 
downward spiral towards genuine chaos. The political, 
security  and  economic  situation  in  2000  was  so 
disastrous that when, along with other stakeholders, we 
committed  to  this  historic  declaration,  our  domestic 
capacities had hit rock bottom.  

Life  expectancy  at  birth  in  the  Central  African 
Republic  had  dropped  from  52  years  in  1990  to  45 
years  in  2000,  that  is,  10  years  below  the  African 
average  and  an average loss of more than one year of 
life  every  two  years.  Nearly  80  per  cent  of  our 
population  was 
in  abject  poverty.  The 
institutions  of  the  Republic  were  merely  a  shadow  of 
their  former  selves.  Insecurity  reigned  throughout 
much of the country. It was particularly pronounced in 
those  regions  that  bordered  neighbouring  countries, 
which 
throes  of  armed 
rebellions,  where  the  circulation  of  small  arms  and 
light  weapons  flourished.  On  this  specific  and  no  less 
vital point, at the time we were facing, with practically 
themselves  were 
living 
in 
the 
to 

resources, 
What have we thus been able to accomplish since 
non-existent 
the  double  challenge  of 
providing  security  for  our  citizens  within  our  borders 
while trying to contain the effects of both internal and 
external armed rebellions. 

In short, we already had a great lag compared to 
many other countries. Therefore, we had to reconstruct 
the bases of a State worthy of the name. We needed to 
reconstruct  a  State  rid  of  the  demons  of  division  and 
destruction,  a  State  capable  of  providing  its  people 
with  essential  basic  services,  and  one  capable  of 
restoring its domestic forces in all areas of social life in 
order  to  address  poverty,  the  true  root  cause  of  this 
insecurity and instability. 

2003? 

Our  country  report  details  the  different  steps 
taken over in seven years, while taking a hard look at 
the  challenges  that  we  have  not  been  able  to  address 
over  the  last  10  years.  It  also  takes  into  account  the 
new  challenges  and  underscores  the  magnitude  of  the 
efforts necessary to remain on track for the MDGs. 

We are aware that with this great lag it will only 
be with great difficulty that we will be able to achieve 
one or two indicators, and then only if we continue our 
efforts.  The  statistics  tell  us  that  only  the  targets 
concerning access to drinking water and schooling for 
girls  in  primary  school  show  encouraging  trends. 
However, I have reservations regarding those statistics 
because the poverty rates in our country continue to be 
very  alarming  from  all  points  of  view.  Despite  all 
efforts to identify the constraints facing us, the level of 
actions  to  address  pockets  of  poverty  has  remained 
extremely  low,  particularly  in  rural  areas  where  mere 
road infrastructure is sorely lacking. 

As  we  have  all  observed,  restoring  security  and 
building peace are essential to solidify our institutions 
and  to  strengthen  the  relations  between  our  fellow 
citizens  and  their  institutions  and  social  cohesion. 
Those  requirements  are  necessary  for  any  long-term 
effort  towards  socio-economic  development.  In  fact, 
that consideration constitutes a heavy burden for post-
conflict  countries  in  general,  one  that  quite  frequently 
absorbs the bulk of the available domestic resources or 
resources have been mobilized by our partners. It also 
has  to  do  with  a  complex  relationship  between  the 
goals of peace and of development. 
8 

10-54521 
in 
the 



From  the  standpoint  of  political,  economic  and 
financial  governance,  the  measures  implemented  with 
the  assistance  of  our  technical  and  financial  partners 
have  enabled  us  to  make  progress.  Nevertheless,  in 
certain  areas  such  as  security  the  reforms  undertaken 
have not advanced at the desired pace, given the perils.  

We are resolved to implement the priority steps of 
our  peacebuilding  strategy  in  order  to  ensure  the  best 
possible conditions to allow us to make up for the lag. 
But  we  are  depending  on  a  more  active  partnership, 
directed  towards  tangible  results  in  terms  of  peace 
dividends  for  our  people.  That  is  what  motivates  our 
participation 
international  dialogue  on 
peacebuilding and strengthening of the State. 

We  endorsed  the  Paris  Declaration  in  2006,  and 
we  participate  actively  in  the  dialogue  with  the  entire 
international  community  on  fragile  States  in  the  g7+. 
We are convinced that if the resolutions resulting from 
all the consultations over the last three years are fully 
implemented, our hope will not be in vain. 

The  situation  in  the  Central African  Republic  is 
not  hopeless,  but  the  specific  experience  of  my 
country, and certainly that of many other post-conflict 
countries,  clearly  demonstrates  that  a  lengthy  post-
conflict  recovery  period  inevitably  exposes  States  to 
greater  vulnerability.  Such  a  situation  is  fraught  with 
unforeseen  perils  that  greatly  affect  the  meagre  gains 
made and increase the risk of a reverse. 

We  are  aware  that  achieving  the  MDGs  in  the 
Central  African  Republic  is  a  challenge,  for  the 
financing  needs  have  been  estimated  to  be  at  least 
$5.5 billion.  If  we  add  to  that  the  costs  of  various 
urgent  matters  arising  from  past  and  future  natural 
disasters or humanitarian crises,  as well as the loss of 
resources  related  to  various  external  shocks,  the  costs 
of financing  our MDG programmes  will be more than 
$10 billion. 

Nevertheless, we are determined to achieve some 
of  those  Goals  and  believe  we  can  if,  together,  we 
focus our efforts and dedicate the appropriate means to 
the  following  four  key  areas.  One,  we  must  provide 
security  throughout  the  country  and  build  peace. 
Secondly,  we  must  strengthen  the  State  by  increasing 
administrative  capacities  and  the  capacities  of  the 
young institutions of the Republic. Thirdly, we need to 
rapidly  address  the  basic  social  service  needs  of  our 
people,  particularly  in  rural  areas,  which  have  been 
clearly  identified  in  our  development  programme. 
A/65/PV.8
for  many  countries 
President  Chinchilla  Miranda
Fourthly, we must mobilize the resources necessary to 
cover  the  needs  identified  by  the  integrated  strategic 
framework,  which  harmonizes  peacebuilding  and 
economic reconstruction programmes. 

Sharing  the  same  concerns  of  all  fragile  States, 
the people of the Central African Republic are counting 
on international solidarity and appeal for agreement on 
a  special  partnership  programme  for  fragile  States. 
That programme must be sufficiently inclusive to take 
into account our respective needs. I therefore urge the 
development  partners  gathered  here  to  support  our 
efforts with rapid response instruments and appropriate 
resources so that 2015 will not be just one more failed 
meeting 
in  difficulty,  and 
particularly for the Central African Republic. 
Long live international cooperation! 

The Acting Chair: The Assembly will now hear 

an  address  by  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Laura  Chinchilla 
Miranda, President of the Republic of Costa Rica. 
in 
(spoke 

Spanish):  Ten  years  ago  this  Assembly  produced  a 
document  that  gave  hope  to  many  peoples.  The 
Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2),  which  was 
ratified  at  that  time,  endorsed  six  fundamental  values: 
freedom,  equality,  solidarity,  tolerance,  respect  for 
nature  and  a  sense  of  shared  responsibility.  On  that 
basis  world  leaders  adopted  eight  clear  commitments: 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  which 
placed  human  beings  at  the  core  of  our  national  and 
global responsibilities. 

Today, I come to render account to the Assembly 
and to my people on what Costa Rica has achieved in 
that  process.  My  assessment  is  optimistic.  We  are 
rightly confident that we will achieve the Goals despite 
the  difficult  circumstances  and  the  fact  that,  as  a 
middle-income  country,  we  receive  no  share  of 
international  cooperation  flows.  However,  we  are  also 
aware  of  our  national  challenges  and 
that  any 
achievement must be a spur for the future. 

The  first  Goal  called  on  us  to  eradicate  extreme 
poverty  and  hunger  by  2015.  In  1990,  9  per  cent  of 
Costa  Rican  homes  were  in  such  a  situation.  In  2007, 
we  had  brought  that  down  to  just  3.3  per  cent.  The 
world economic crisis had an impact on that indicator, 
but the growth trend is being maintained, and we want 
to further improve it. Our moral imperative is that not a 
10-54521 

9 

A/65/PV.8 

single  Costa  Rican  should  lack  the  means  to  feed 
himself. 

Goal 2, on universal primary education, has been 
fully accomplished. All our school-age children attend 
educational  centres.  However,  we  are  concerned  that 
only  90  per  cent  of  them  complete  the  cycle,  and  we 
are  working  towards  all  of  them  achieving  that  by 
2015. 

The  challenge  is  greater  in  secondary  education. 
While it draws 83.6 per cent of our young people, only 
40 per cent of them complete it. However, that dropout 
rate  has  been  falling,  thanks  to  transparent  funding 
programmes  for  young  people  with  limited  resources. 
In  addition,  the  Ethics,  Aesthetics  and  Citizenship 
Project makes the learning process more attractive and 
relevant 
through  sports  and  artistic  and  service 
activities.  We  hope  that  in  five  years  secondary 
education  will  include  89  per  cent  and  that  the 
percentage of graduates will have greatly increased. 

We are also working towards universal preschool 
education, a greater impetus to technical education and 
vocational  training,  regular  use  of  information  and 
communications  technologies  in  classrooms,  homes 
and communities, and universal, good quality access to 
digital networks. 

To  make  progress  on  all  those  goals,  we  have 
substantially  increased  investment  in  several  areas. 
Resources  allocated  to  education  have  increased  from 
3.8  per  cent  of  the  gross  domestic  product  in  1990  to 
6.8 per cent last year, and we are committed to raising 
that  to  8  per  cent  of  the  gross  domestic  product  by 
2014. 

As  the  first  woman  President  in  the  history  of 
Costa Rica, I feel particularly proud of our progress on 
Goal  3:  the  participation  of  women  in  public  life, 
which has increased year by year. Today, nearly 40 per 
cent  of  parliamentarians  are  women.  Also,  almost 
30 per  cent  of  the  members  of  the  Supreme  Court  of 
Justice  are  women.  Our  participation  in  the  labour 
market  has  increased  from  30  per  cent  in  1990  to 
42 per cent last year, and it continues to grow higher. 

Nevertheless,  women  are  still  the  most  affected 
by unemployment and work instability and irregularity. 
To  a  great  extent,  that  is  due  to  our  difficulties  in 
combining  productive  and  reproductive  roles.  To 
overcome that obstacle, we are developing a childcare 
early 
together  with 
a 
increased 
Our  commitment 
to 
learning  network, 
and 
comprehensive care network for the elderly. 

With  regard  to  Goals  4,  5  and  6,  all  related  to 
health,  we  continue  to  make  steady  progress  under  a 
strong  national  commitment  and  policies  developed 
over  many  decades.  We  are  proud  to  have  one  of  the 
lowest  child  mortality  rates  in  the  entire  American 
continent.  However,  we  are  still  not  satisfied.  That  is 
why  we  are  working  towards  a  mortality  rate  for 
children under five years of 2 per 1,000 live births by 
2015, and for those under one year, 9 per 1,000. We are 
also  highly  committed  to  reducing  maternal  mortality 
to 20 per every 100,000 pregnant women by 2015. 

The  impact  of  HIV/AIDS  in  the  country  is  low, 
but we continue to strengthen prevention measures. In 
particular,  we  have 
the  monitoring  of 
pregnant  women,  and,  since  1998,  through  social 
security,  we  have  provided  antiretroviral  treatment  to 
those who suffer from the disease. 

the  environment  and 
sustainable  development  preceded  by  far  the  seventh 
Millennium  Development  Goal.  Thanks  to  measures 
taken over more than four decades, almost 25 per cent 
of  the  national  territory  is  under  an  environmental 
management  or  conservation  scheme.  We  have 
recovered forest cover. We are investing to increase the 
proportion  of  electricity  generated  from  renewable 
sources  and  the  proportion  of  clean  energy  in  overall 
energy  use.  My  Government  is  promoting  several 
initiatives so that we can generate all of our electricity 
from fully renewable sources in the next 10 years. We 
are  working  to  reduce  greenhouse  gases,  and  we  have 
proposed being a carbon-neutral country. 

Today, practically 100 per cent of the population 
has  access  to  water  from  improved  sources,  but  we 
want  that  water  to  reach  decent  homes  in  all  cases 
everywhere  through  mortgage  credit  schemes  and 
subsidies for low- and medium-income families. 
Costa  Rica  recognizes,  and  has  demonstrated  to 

the world, that sustainable human development must be 
supported  through  democratic  governance,  the  rule  of 
law, transparency, respect for human rights, and peace 
and  security.  It  also  requires  an  intelligent  linkage 
among  growth  in  production,  education,  health  care, 
innovation,  respect  for 
the 
reduction  of  poverty.  We  take  those  responsibilities 
very  seriously,  and  we  do  not  blame  others  for  our 
problems. 
the  environment  and 
10 

10-54521 
serious  challenge:  organized  crime, 



Nevertheless,  sustainable  human  development 
also  requires  a  true  global  partnership.  Hence,  the 
eighth  Goal,  which  involves  adequate  and  effective 
international cooperation. It concerns us that still very 
few developed countries are allocating 0.7 per  cent of 
their  gross  domestic  product 
to  development 
assistance. At the same time, while we understand that 
such  assistance  must  focus  on  the  more  vulnerable 
countries, 
it  should  not  exclude  medium-income 
countries,  which,  thanks  to  their  efforts,  have  been 
progressing towards higher development levels but are 
still vulnerable. 
As President of Costa Rica, I am concerned about 

another 
in 
particular  drug  cartels.  If  we  do  not  stop  their 
involvement,  the  advances  in  development  will  be 
worth  very  little.  From  this  rostrum  of  commitments 
and hope, I call on the developed countries, especially 
the  big  consumers  of  drugs,  to  collaborate  effectively 
with those of us that suffer from a problem that was not 
created by us. 

Owing  to  our  historic  commitment  to  collective 
well-being, Costa Rica is well on track to achieve and 
even  exceed  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  by 
2015.  But  this  is  not  enough.  Our  efforts  are  also 
directed  to  the  constant  expansion  of  opportunities,  to 
the  reduction  of  social  and  regional  disparities,  to 
transparency, accountability, solidarity and freedom. 

I  would  like  to  thank  the  United  Nations  system 
for its generous help accompanying us in this process, 
and  I  urge  all  countries  that  we  advance  jointly  along 
this bright path. 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  Her  Excellency  Roza  Otunbaeva, 
President of the Kyrgyz Republic. 
President  Otunbaeva  (spoke  in  Russian):  From 

this  high  rostrum,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  the 
commitment of the Kyrgyz Republic to the Millennium 
Declaration (resolution 55/2) and to the achievement of 
its lofty Goals.  

In  spite  of  all  the  political  and  socio-economic 
hardships  faced  by  my  country,  we  continue  to  make 
efforts towards achieving the Millennium Development 
Goals 
the 
country’s  national  development  strategy  and  action 
plans. We are confident that by working at the national 
level  for  the  achievement  of  the  Development  Goals, 
incorporating 
(MDGs)  by 
them 
into 
A/65/PV.8
issues  as  combating 
we  are  making  the  world  secure,  the  social  fabric 
strong and the life of our citizens fitting for the twenty-
first  century.  Our progress  is stimulated,  inter  alia,  by 
our neighbours and allies, who until only recently were 
developing  States  but  today  are  among  the  engines  of 
global economic growth. 

The events  of the past six  months in Kyrgyzstan 
have  clearly  demonstrated  the  inseparable  link  among 
such  elements  as  development,  democracy  and 
security. Life itself has put on the agenda of the current 
Government  such 
rampant 
corruption,  implementing  serious  reforms,  depoliticizing 
governance and restoring the rule of law. As a result of 
the  violent  inter-ethnic  conflict  that  broke  out  in  the 
south of Kyrgyzstan — instigated by destructive forces 
and supporters of the failed regime — over 300 people 
were killed, thousands were wounded and about 2,000 
homes  and  327  public  buildings  were  damaged  or 
burned. 

We  are  making  every  possible  effort  for  the 
rehabilitation and recovery of the areas affected by the 
conflict.  We  very  sincerely 
thank  all  countries, 
organizations 
the  United  Nations  system  and 
international banks that during the time of hardship for 
Kyrgyzstan have manifested their readiness to provide 
urgent 
and  humanitarian 
assistance  to  mitigate  the  negative  impacts,  to  restore 
security and safety and to achieve social and economic 
stability. 

We are hopeful that commitments made this past 
summer  at  the  donor  conference  in  Bishkek  will  be 
fully  met.  In  turn,  our  Government  is  committed  to 
ensuring  full  transparency  and  the  highest  degree  of 
control over the use of any support funds provided. We 
believe  it  extremely  important  to  learn  from  the 
experience  of  countries  emerging  from  conflict  that 
have  succeeded 
the  process  of  peacebuilding, 
particularly  those  that  have  been  able  to  restore  the 
fabric  of  civil 
implement  post-conflict 
rehabilitation  and  put  in  place  effectively  functioning 
governing structures. 

The  Kyrgyz  Republic  attaches  great  importance 
to  developing  open  and  responsible  governance, 
improving  policy 
implementation  and  eradicating 
mechanisms  of  corruption  in  areas  of  private  business 
and  public  administration.  We  intend  to  involve  in 
governance  new  management  personnel,  free  from 
corrupt practices. To this effect, we are creating a civil 
operational, 
financial 
society, 
in 
in 
10-54521 

11 

is 
the 
third 
country 
elections, 
Kyrgyzstan 
A/65/PV.8 

service  fund,  drawing  initially  on  financial  support 
from the Government of the Russian Federation. 

the 
in 
Commonwealth  of  Independent  States  to  successfully 
implement 
the  Extractive  Industries  Transparency 
Initiative. Drawing on that model, we intend to develop 
and  put  into  practice  transparency  principles  into  the 
energy sector as well.  

The  country  is  making  definite  progress  in  the 
area  of  the  empowerment  of  women.  Kyrgyzstan’s 
upcoming  parliamentary 
to  be  held 
10 October 2010, will be conducted on the basis of the 
election code, which obliges political parties to observe 
and  follow  the  30  per  cent  quota  requirement  for 
women in party lists. One can clearly see the increase 
of the number of women professionals who occupy the 
highest  government  offices,  including  the  President, 
Supreme  Court  chief  justice,  the  national  bank  chair, 
the  deputy  vice  prime  ministers,  ministers  and 
governors.  Kyrgyzstan  welcomes  the  creation  of  the 
new entity, UN Women, which, we are certain, is going 
to  open  up  space  for  the  successful  promotion  and 
development  of  the  world’s  women  in  the  twenty-first 
century. 

We  hope  for  the  early  recovery  of  all  countries 
from  the  economic  crisis.  We  emphasize  in  particular 
the  strengthening  of  the  financial  sector  to  bring  new 
life  and  mobilize  all  creative  mechanisms  in  order  to 
promote  an  international  environment  conducive  to 
sustainable development. Supported by our partners in 
the  Group  of  Landlocked  Mountain  Developing 
Countries, which are vulnerable to frequent and diverse 
natural 
the  practical 
implementation  of 
the  debt-for-environment  swap 
mechanism.  We  urge  the  United  Nations  specialized 
organizations, 
the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme,  to  take  the  lead  in  the 
implementation  of  such  programmes  in  the  Central 
Asian region. 
Experience  shows  the  great  role  of  trade  in 

achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
Economic  growth  has  been  closely  interlinked  with 
trade,  while  poverty  can  be  eradicated  only  by 
economic  development. 
for  us 
developing  countries  with  growing  levels  of  trade  to 
enjoy open borders as a way to free trade.  
in 

Kyrgyzstan  has  sustainable  access  to  drinking  water, 
Some  90.4  per  cent  of 
calamities,  we 
the  population 
It 
is 
important 
particularly 
advocate 
12 

including 99.4 per cent of the urban population. We are 
situated  at  the  origin  of  the  mountain  rivers  that  give 
life to many  millions in the countries of Central Asia. 
Therefore  we  believe  that  the  preservation  of  glaciers 
and  fresh  water  sources  is  a  major  responsibility,  one 
shared by the downstream countries. 

We support the Global Strategy for Women’s and 
Children’s  Health  just  launched  by  Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon.  This  new  initiative  and  the  focused 
investments  in  this  direction  will  be  necessary  for  the 
practical achievement of the Millennium Development 
Goals. Even though more than half of the State budget 
in  Kyrgyzstan  is  devoted  to  social  needs,  we  still  fall 
short  of  achieving  any  visible  reduction  of  the  child 
and maternal mortality rates. Public-private partnership 
in maternity protection remains underdeveloped.  

We  believe  that  the  global  partnership  is  about, 
inter  alia,  volunteer  activities  of  doctors  from  the 
developed  nations,  exchanging  experiences  in  new 
treatment practices, and charitable activities sponsored 
by  the  global  pharmaceutical  companies  providing 
access 
to 
the  essential  drugs  and  new  medical 
equipment. 

The  Millennium  Development  Goals  are  every 
nation’s  development  goals.  They  are  the  goals  of 
survival and the preservation of life, of universal, high-
quality  education,  of  equal  opportunities  for  all, 
particularly  those  who  are  most  vulnerable.  They  are 
also  the  goals  for  a  dignified  quality  of  life.  My 
country is committed to making every possible effort to 
bring  positive  changes  for  every  citizen,  in  the  next 
few years, today and right now. We will work tirelessly 
in  synergy  with  the  world,  and  we  will  do  everything 
we can to not fall behind. 
The Acting Chair: The Assembly will now hear 

an 
Jóhanna 
address  by  Her  Excellency  Ms. 
Sigurðardóttir,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of 
Iceland. 
Ms.  Sigurðardóttir  (Iceland):  Ten  years  ago  a 

milestone was reached in international cooperation: the 
adoption  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  providing  common  universal  objectives  for 
the  global  fight  against  poverty.  Those  Goals  have 
helped  us  draw  the  world’s  attention  to  our  mutual 
responsibility:  the  responsibility  of  all  nations  to  help 
the  poorest  and  most  deprived  citizens  of  the  world. 
We need to listen to the voices of women and children 
worldwide. We need to hear the poor and marginalized. 
10-54521 
from 
serious 
the  most 


It  is  our  responsibility,  as  leaders  accountable  to  our 
fellow citizens, to act in all of their interests. 

During the last decade the global community has 
faced  serious  challenges,  such  as  famine,  disease, 
natural  disasters  and  wars.  Now  we  are  slowly 
recovering 
international 
economic  crisis  in  decades.  We  have  learned  a  hard 
lesson  from  the  financial  turmoil,  and  it  has  most 
affected  those  who  are  most  vulnerable.  We  must  not 
lose sight of fundamental values, such as a fair and just 
society.  Short-term  policies  and  benefits  must  not 
replace  sound  economic  management  and  long-term 
stability. 

But  the  challenges  that  developed  countries  face 
must not divert our attention from the burning issues at 
hand.  Our  attention  should  be  focused  on  the  extreme 
needs of those in the poorest regions of the world. No 
child should be homeless; no child should be deprived 
of  nourishment  or  water.  No  child  should  be  denied 
schooling  or  suffer  from  a  disease  that  is  preventable. 
That  is  the  crisis  that  must  remain  at  the  top  of  our 
collective agenda.  
Many  developing  countries  have  made  great 

strides to improve the lives of their people. Their hard 
work  and  success  stories  are  a  reminder  that  progress 
can be achieved. 
Gender equality and the empowerment of women 

are key to the success of the Millennium Development 
Goals, not only as a specific target, but for the Goals in 
general.  Women  bear  a  heavier  burden  of  the  world’s 
poverty  than  men  because  of  the  discrimination  they 
face in education, health care, employment and control 
of  assets.  Women  are  also  particularly  defenceless 
against violence and exploitation in conflict situations. 
UN  Women  —  the  United  Nations  Entity  for  Gender 
Equality  and  the  Empowerment  of  Women  —  is  an 
historic step. We need to make it a strong and effective 
agent for the needs of women and girls worldwide. 
The  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights 

states that all human beings are born free and equal in 
dignity and rights. Respect for human rights is vital to 
a more peaceful, prosperous and just world. We need to 
make a common international effort and respond more 
efficiently when human rights are not being respected. 
With leadership and political will we can achieve real 
progress and make a world free of poverty a reality. 
A/65/PV.8
Labour, 
to  achieving 
The Acting Chair: The Assembly will now hear 

an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ralph  Gonsalves, 
Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Finance,  Planning, 
Economic  Development, 
Information, 
Grenadine  and  Legal Affairs  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines. 
Mr. Gonsalves (Saint Vincent and the Grenadines): 

The  purpose  of  this  United  Nations  summit  is  to 
consider our individual and collective progress towards 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  which 
we committed to achieving by the year 2015. We have 
also  gathered,  as  we  have  in  the  past,  to  reiterate  our 
political  commitment 
the  MDGs. 
However,  the  threadbare  rhetoric  of  good  political 
intentions  is  meaningless  without  a  demonstrated  and 
tangible fulfilment of past pledges. 

Over  the  past  10  years,  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines  has  made  tremendous  strides  in  achieving 
many  of  the  MDGs.  Indeed,  even  in  the  face  of  an 
increasingly difficult international economic environment, 
we  have  achieved  many  of  the  Goals  far  ahead  of 
schedule.  
For  example,  Goal  1  codifies  the  overarching 

goal  of  our  global  pact  —  namely,  the  elimination  of 
hunger  and  poverty.  The  standard  set  by 
the 
international  community  was  that  by  2015,  each 
country  should  reduce  by  half  the  number  of  people 
who live in extreme poverty. I am proud to report that 
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines has far exceeded this 
Goal, well in advance of the 2015 deadline. In the past 
decade,  extreme  poverty  has  been  reduced  from 
roughly 26 per cent of the population to a mere 2.9 per 
cent. That amounts to an almost 90 per cent reduction 
in  indigence.  To  be  sure,  poverty,  more  broadly 
defined,  remains  a  stubborn  and  vexing  challenge  in 
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines.  We  have  reduced 
non-indigent  poverty  by  one  fifth  in  the  past  decade, 
but 30 per cent of our population continue to struggle 
with less extreme forms of poverty. 

Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  has  also  far 
exceeded  the  Goal  of  universal  primary  education. 
Indeed,  we  have  achieved  universal 
secondary 
education,  improving  access  from  39  per  cent  to 
100 per cent in just five years. By 2015, Saint Vincent 
and the Grenadines will have achieved universal access 
to  primary,  secondary  and  early  childhood  education. 
Our  ongoing  education 
the 
revolution 
remains 
10-54521 

13 

A/65/PV.8 

cornerstone  of  my  Government’s  people-centred 
development policy. 

Our health ministry has worked diligently to meet 
the  relevant  MDGs.  Under-five  child  mortality  has 
been  reduced  by  almost  half  and  now  approaches 
developed  world  standards.  The  spread  of  HIV  has 
stabilized  in  my  country,  and  we  remain  hopeful  that 
we will begin to claim measurable success in reversing 
its prevalence in the coming years. We have increased 
access to pipe-borne water from 70 per cent to over 98 
per  cent  through  prudent  infrastructure  investments. 
Internet  connectivity  has  tripled,  and  we  now  have 
more  active  mobile  phone  subscriptions  than  we  have 
citizens. 

Despite  these  tremendous  development  strides, 
many obstacles still remain to achieving and sustaining 
the  MDGs  in  our  national,  regional  and  international 
context.  The  collapse  of  the  world  economy,  climate 
change,  inequitable  trade  regimes  and  the  impact  of 
transnational crime all threaten our fragile gains. 

From  the  perspective  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines, the most woefully unmet MDG is Goal 8, 
on  a  “global  partnership  for  development”.  While 
developing  countries  continue  their  heroic  struggle  to 
advance 
increasingly  difficult  economic 
environment,  many  of  our  development  partners  have 
replaced  their  firm  and  measurable  commitments  of 
assistance  with  platitudes  and  empty  rhetoric.  The 
United  Nations  has  reported  that  the  developed  world 
has  provided 
the  development 
assistance  that  it  pledged  to  deliver.  The  developing 
world  received  $120  billion  in  2009,  far  short  of  the 
$300  billion  that  was  pledged.  The  Group  of  Eight 
Gleneagles  commitments  to  Africa  are  $20  billion 
short.  The  official  development  assistance  pledge  of 
0.7 per cent of gross national income remains a cruelly 
unfulfilled  promise  for  all  but  a  few  countries.  The 
limited  trickle  of  available  assistance  is  unreliable, 
unevenly  distributed  and  heavily 
influenced  by 
political, rather than development, considerations. The 
financial  crisis  and  the  failed  Doha  Development 
Round  belie  the  Goal  8  pledge  to  develop  an  open, 
rule-based, predictable, non-discriminatory trading and 
financial  system.  From  the  perspective  of  the  small, 
heavily  indebted  States  of  the  Caribbean  Community, 
the  Goal  8  commitment  to  debt  relief  rings  similarly 
hollow. 
than  half  of 
in  an 
less 

Further,  I  must  emphasize  that  much  of  the 
developing  world  remains  mired  in  a  situation  that  is 
not  of  our  making.  The  developed  world’s  unmet 
pledges  of  development  assistance  were  made  well 
before  those  same  countries  plunged  the  world  into  a 
global  economic  and  financial  crisis. And  their  words 
of  commitment  were  uttered  before  we  had  the  full 
measure  of  the  impacts  of  climate  change.  Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines had no role in creating the 
financial  and  economic  crisis.  We  are  blameless  in 
causing  climate  change.  Further,  the  responsibility  for 
the crises in food and fuel prices is not ours. 

Yet,  in  a  brazenly  illogical  and  indefensible 
manner,  those  who  are  culpable  for  those  crises 
unacceptably cite the very calamities that they created 
as  the  basis  upon  which  they  would  avoid  their 
commitments  to  developing  countries.  They  point  to 
the  fact  that  poverty  and  unemployment  are  rising 
drastically in the world’s major economies. They resort 
to thinly disguised code words like “aid effectiveness” 
and  “governance  structures”  to  mask  their  failings  in 
meeting their own assistance targets. Somehow, we are 
expected  to  soldier  on,  with  less  assistance  than 
promised  and  in  an  international  environment  that  is 
hostile to development, while the creators of the crises 
and  the  deliverers  of  empty  promises  often  look 
askance at our development needs. 
The  achievement  of  the  MDGs  is  at  a  critical 

juncture.  My  Government’s  people-centred  strides 
towards  these  Goals  are  vulnerable  and  potentially 
reversible in this period of increasing global economic 
hardship.  Internationally,  the  MDGs  are  unattainable 
and  unsustainable  without  a  shrinking  of  the  yawning 
credibility  gap  between  what  is  pledged  and  what  is 
delivered  by  our  development  partners.  For  the  next 
five  years,  Goal  8  must  be  the  engine  of  further 
development and the fulcrum by which we leverage our 
own  national  and 
regional  best  practices.  The 
difference  between  achievement  of  the  MDGs  and 
failure is the difference between real commitments and 
empty promises, between responsibility and avoidance. 

The  great  American  President  Abraham  Lincoln 
once  said,  “you  cannot  escape  the  responsibility  of 
tomorrow  by  evading  it  today”.  As  2015  approaches, 
no  one  is  served  by  evasive  words  and  deeds  by  our 
friends,  our  development  partners.  A  renewed  global 
partnership for development, evidenced by measurable 
and demonstrable efforts to honour past commitments, 
14 

10-54521 


is  the  only  sure  way  that  we  can  collectively  attain 
meaningful and sustainable global development. 
The Acting Chair: The Assembly will now hear 

an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jan  Peter 
Balkenende,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  General 
Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. 
Mr.  Balkenende  (Netherlands):  Today  we  are 

looking  back  at  the  10  years  since  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  were  agreed.  But  we  are 
also  looking  forward.  We  still  have  five  years  to  go: 
five years to make a difference for all those people for 
whom poverty, hunger and shortages are still everyday 
realities. 

Looking  back,  we  have  good  reason  to  be 
satisfied  with  what  we  have  achieved  in  some  areas 
over  the  past  10  years.  Poverty,  child  mortality  and 
malaria have all been reduced. More girls are attending 
school. And more people have access to clean drinking 
water  —  a  subject  to  which  the  Netherlands  and,  in 
particular, our Crown Prince are deeply committed. 

At  the  same  time,  there  is  cause  for  concern, 
because our aims are ambitious, but we are moving too 
slowly.  That  applies  in  particular  to  the  MDGs  on 
reducing  maternal  mortality  and  achieving  equality 
between  men  and  women.  Progress  is  lagging  far 
behind, and we cannot allow that to happen, so we will 
have  to  do  better.  And  we  can  do  better,  if  we  are 
prepared to think and work outside the box. 

Too often the Millennium Development Goals are 
still 
responsibility  of  non-
seen  as 
governmental 
and 
multilateral organizations. That is unwise, because the 
commitment  of 
to 
achieving  them.  Its  knowledge  and  expertise  in  fields 
such  as  science,  logistics  and  innovation  enable  us  to 
push  forward  boundaries  in  development.  Above  all, 
however,  the  private  sector  is  both  a  source  of  and  a 
stimulus  to  employment,  sustainable  development  and 
economic growth. 

Research  shows  that  economic  growth  accounts 
for 80 per cent of poverty reduction in the world. When 
per capita income increases, the poorest 20 per cent of 
the  population  also  benefit,  and  the  higher  the  growth 
is and the longer it lasts, the faster poverty rates drop.  

The  same  free  market  principles  also  operate  at 
grass-roots level. We will speak about that later today, 
when  I  host  a  side  event  on  inclusive  finance  in  the 
the 
organizations,  Governments 
the  private  sector 
is  crucial 
sole 
A/65/PV.8
in 
statement 
support  of  private 
presence of Her Royal Highness Princess Máxima, the 
Secretary-General’s  Special  Advocate  for  Inclusive 
Financing for Development. 

So,  we  know  that  within  certain  parameters  the 
mechanisms  of  the  free  market  are  essential  for 
development.  But  we  also  know  that  investing  in 
developing  countries  is  still  regarded  by  many  as  a 
risky business. So, to get economic growth in gear, the 
private  sector  needs  a  helping  hand.  That  is  why  the 
Dutch  Government  is  strongly  in  favour  of  public-
private  partnerships.  We  recently  drafted  a  bilateral 
donors 
sector 
partnerships for development. Rather than viewing the 
private sector merely as a cash dispenser, the statement 
recognizes  that  it  is  an  equal  partner  in  development. 
We  are  in  this  together  with  the  Governments  of 
Austria, Denmark, Germany, Sweden, Switzerland, the 
United  Kingdom  and 
the  United  States.  The 
International  Finance  Corporation  and  the  United 
Nations Development Programme are also involved. 

The Governments of the Netherlands Antilles and 
Aruba strongly support this policy of working with the 
private  sector  to  achieve  the  MDGs.  The  upcoming 
Netherlands  Antilles  MDG  report  will  not  only 
emphasize 
this  but  will  also  strengthen  existing 
partnerships. 

In a recent letter to co-facilitators written jointly 
with  the  Chief  Executive  Officers  of  several  Dutch 
multinationals, the Dutch  Government  emphasized the 
importance of innovative partnerships:  

believes 
greater 
“The  Netherlands 
collaboration  between  government  and  business 
could  be  instrumental,  as  it  would  combine  the 
knowledge  and  experience  of  the  public  sector 
with the creative solutions and technical expertise 
of the private sector.” 
that 
I am proud that so many Dutch companies are here at 
this  week’s  summit  to  prove  that  our  approach  really 
works. 

To  achieve  the  MDGs,  innovative  thinking  is 
needed  in  every  field.  This  applies  in  particular  to 
MDG  3  and  MDG  5.  Every  year  more  than  350,000 
women still die during pregnancy or childbirth, and in 
many  cases  women  are  still  denied  equal  rights. 
Shortly  before  my  departure  for  New  York,  I  was 
presented with a petition signed by thousands of Dutch 
mothers  who  find  it  unacceptable  that  during  this 
10-54521 

15 

A/65/PV.8 

summit  more  than  4,400  women  will  die  during 
pregnancy or childbirth. 

Like those Dutch mothers, the Dutch Government 
believes — and I believe — that ensuring equal rights 
and opportunities for women brings the achievement of 
most of the other MDGs closer. Burkina Faso is a good 
example.  By  addressing  harmful  practices  and 
discrimination  against  women,  by  expanding  and 
improving  family  planning  services,  by  committing 
itself to removing obstacles to health care, that country 
was  able  to  reduce  the  number  of  needless  deaths 
substantially. 

Human  rights  play  a  crucial  role  on  the  road  to 
2015. By ensuring equality and non-discrimination, we 
will  give  the  poorest  and  most  vulnerable  groups 
access  to  basic  services.  Accountability,  the  right  to 
participate and freedom of information will enable our 
efforts  to  meet  the  real  needs  of  the  population.  And 
making  things  accessible  and  affordable  will  ensure 
that the MDGs are more than a short-term success. 

The  key  is  that  we  must  combine  our  strengths 
and  efforts  as  Members  of  the  United  Nations,  as 
donors  and  developing  countries  and  especially  as 
Governments and businesses. 
The Acting Chair: The Assembly will now hear 

an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Emil  Boc,  Prime 
Minister of Romania.  
Mr.  Boc  (Romania):  It  is  a  great  pleasure  to 

participate in this High-level Meeting dedicated to the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). The adoption 
of the MDGs 10 years ago was a high achievement for 
United  Nations  Member  States  and  indeed,  for  the 
whole of humanity. In Romania’s view, the MDGs are 
one of the most important acts to reform international 
relations of the past two decades. 

Today  we  have  gathered  not  only  to  measure 
progress  and  to  speak  about  challenges  ahead,  but  to 
garner  our  collective  wisdom  and  will  to  push  for  the 
attainment of the MDGs by 2015. We are here today to 
demonstrate that solidarity is not only a slogan and that 
our work on behalf of our citizens bears the full mark 
of  responsibility.  At  a 
time  when  science  and 
technology are flourishing and the potential for human 
development  has  never  been  higher,  it  is  a  moral 
imperative  for  all  of  us  to  find  solutions  in  order  to 
eradicate  extreme  poverty,  hunger  and  the  worst 
diseases. 
towards 
the  MDGs,  reinforced 
in 
its  accession  experience  and 
In  2007,  Romania  became  a  member  of  the 
irreversible 
large 
the 
I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  commend  the 

current  and  previous  Presidents  of 
the  General 
Assembly  for  chairing  the  meeting,  as  well  as  the 
Secretary-General and the entire Organization for their 
dedication  and  commitment  to  the  crucial  task  of 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals. 

European  Union  (EU).  It  has  made 
progress 
measure  by 
programmatic mechanisms of the process. 

In speaking of the MDGs, we must underline the 
tight linkages among them. The objective to eliminate 
poverty cannot be emphasized without noting its strong 
connection  to  health  care  and  education. At  the  same 
time,  no  prosperous  and  equitable  society  can  ever  be 
the 
built  without  ensuring  gender  balance  and 
empowerment  of  women.  I  would 
like  also 
to 
underscore the interdependence between the MDGs on 
the one hand, and human rights, democracy, rule of law 
and good governance on the other hand.  

Ignoring  or  sidelining  the  basic  principles  of 
human rights breeds violence and poverty. Democracy 
and  the  rule  of  law  are  the  immune  system  of  human 
society.  Like  a  disease  that  cannot  be  overcome  if 
immunity  is  low,  poverty  thrives  in  corrupt  places. 
Achieving  gender  equality,  health  care,  universal 
education  or  a clean  environment is a  matter not  only 
of  resources  but  of  putting  the  building  blocks  of 
human 
in  place.  Equally 
important,  maintenance  of  peace  and  security,  doing 
better  work  on  conflict  prevention  and  acting  more 
strongly 
post-conflict 
reconstruction matters are crucial factors for achieving 
the development goals. 

The notion of sustainable development based on a 
fundamental  connection  between  economic  and  social 
development  and  protection  of  the  environment  is 
another  hallmark  of 
current  development 
framework.  In  this  context,  I  would  like  to  recall  the 
perspective of the World Commission on Environment 
and Development, which in its 1987 report (A/42/427, 
annex) 
sustainable 
development  by  affirming  that  it  implies  meeting  the 
needs of the  present without compromising the  ability 
of future generations to meet their own needs.   
This  year,  Romania  will  celebrate  55  years  of 

membership  of  the  United  Nations.  This  membership 
rights  and  democracy 
peacebuilding 
and 
the 
on 
expressed 
the 
essence 
of 
16 

10-54521 


has  been  a  good  opportunity  for  Romania  to  prove  its 
commitment  to  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
United Nations Charter. Indeed, during all of this time 
Romania  and  its  citizens  have  been  firm  believers  in 
the merit of nations working together for peace and the 
welfare of humankind. 

My  country  has  a  proud  history  of  pleading  for 
tolerance  and  of  building  bridges  and  trust  within  the 
international  arena.  Whether  by  bringing  together 
parties  to  conflict,  overcoming  dividing  lines  between 
East  and  West  or  promoting  cooperation  between 
developed  and  developing  countries,  Romania  has 
stepped  forward  at  every  opportunity  to  enhance 
multilateralism. 

Taking  into  account  the  remarkable  cooperation 
achieved  over  the  years  at  the  global  and  regional 
levels, Romania has tried to use its best experiences to 
support  the  efforts  of  countries  in  transition.  In  this 
context, I would like to stress the importance attached 
by  my  country  to  regional  cooperation  as  an  efficient 
means  of  sharing  expertise  among  participating 
countries.  
In  anticipation  of  this  year’s  High-level  Plenary 

Meeting  on  the  MDGs,  the  Government  of  Romania 
decided  to  draw  up  a  national  report  on  progress  in 
achieving  the  MDGs. The  report  will  be  a  useful  tool 
for fostering national efforts in this field. It reviews the 
accomplishments at the national level as well as ways 
to accelerate the process. This initiative is based on the 
Romanian determination to act in favour of the MDGs 
from both a national and an international perspective. 

I would like to further highlight the importance of 
global  partnerships  for  development  in  the  overall 
efforts towards the MDGs. It is essential, in our view, 
that  both  donors  and  partner  States  assume  equitable 
development 
responsibility 
assistance  actions  and 
the 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals by 
2015. 
The Acting Chair: The Assembly will now hear 

an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sebastian  Piñera 
Echeñique, President of the Republic of Chile.  
President Piñera Echeñique (spoke in Spanish): 

In this Hall, where the histories and hopes of the whole 
world converge, I wish to speak on behalf of the heads 
of  State  or  Government  of  Latin  America  and  the 
resources  aimed  at 
ownership 
and 
of 
A/65/PV.8
to 
regard 
Caribbean and in my capacity as President pro tempore 
of the Rio Group. 

Without a doubt, this year, in which much of our 
continent is commemorating 200 years of independence, 
is an excellent opportunity to assess the progress made 
thus  far,  to  renew  our  commitments  and  to  face  what 
the  future  holds.  We  therefore  hope  that  this  meeting 
will offer the opportunity for an exchange of proposals 
and  successful  experiences  with 
the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), in particular 
in  combating  poverty.  One  of  every  three  Latin 
Americans  live  in  poverty  today,  and  the  inequalities 
they  face  are  excessive  and  a  challenge  that  we  will 
have to deal with. 

I believe that never before has our continent had 
a better opportunity to face the challenge of eradicating 
poverty  and  underdevelopment.  We  have  almost 
everything:  a  generous,  large  and  fertile  territory; 
abundant  natural  resources;  two  brother  languages; 
increasingly stable democracies; and peoples that want 
to face this challenge and deal with the difficulties on 
the path towards development, peace and democracy.  
As  President  of  Chile,  I  should  like  to  offer  a 

brief  assessment  of  the  Millennium  Goals. As  regards 
achieving  universal  education,  Chile  has  a  system  of 
12 years  of  compulsory 
is 
practically  universal.  We  have  made  enormous 
progress  with  regard  to  higher  education:  7  out  of 
10 students enrolled in institutions of higher education 
are  the  first  in  their  families  to  be  so.  The  challenge 
now is thus to ensure quality, not coverage.  

We  are  also  working  to  promote  gender  equality 
and empower women,  and  we are doing so first of all 
by ensuring full access the labour force by women, as 
well  as  their  access  to  the  public  sphere:  over  60  per 
cent of the jobs created in our country are for women. 
As  regards  domestic  violence,  an  evil  that  afflicts  the 
entire  world,  the  “Chile  Protects”  programmes  deliver 
coverage  aimed  at  freeing  us  from  this  scourge.  The 
same  is  true  for  the  issue  of  including  women  in  the 
public sphere, where we are witnessing a true renewal. 
Here, I should like to congratulate the former President 
of  Chile,  Michelle  Bachelet,  for  having  assumed  the 
position  of  Under-Secretary-General  and  Executive 
Director  of  the  United  Nations  Entity  for  Gender 
Equality  and 
the  Empowerment  of  Women  (UN 
Women), where she has a great challenge ahead of her, 
and where I am sure she will do a wonderful job.  
free  education 
that 
10-54521 

17 

As 
A/65/PV.8 


We have also achieved infant mortality indicators 
that  are  compatible  with  the  most  highly  developed 
countries  on  Earth.  On  combating  HIV  and AIDS,  we 
are  reaching  the  target  concerning  prevalence  among 
pregnant  women,  which  means  that  no  Chilean  child 
today  will  contract  this  disease  through  transmission 
from the mother.  

As  regards  environmental  protection,  we  are 
working  simultaneously  on  three  fronts,  including  an 
ambitious  plan  for  energy  savings  and  an  ambitious 
plan  to  promote  renewable  energy,  in  which  Chile  is 
extraordinarily  rich.  There  is  great  potential  for  solar 
energy,  as  we  have  the  sunniest  deserts  in  the  world; 
for ocean energy, as we have over 5,000 kilometres of 
coast;  for  geothermal  energy,  as  we  have  so  many 
volcanoes; for wind power; and for bio-energy. We are 
also  developing  the  relevant  institutions  with  the 
creation of a new Environment Ministry.  

regards  extreme  poverty,  we  have  set 
ourselves  the  goal  of  eradicating  extreme  poverty 
during this Government’s tenure, that is to say, over the 
coming  four  years,  and  to  end  poverty  in  our  country 
before the end of the decade. We are doing this through 
two  types  of  mechanisms:  those  that  attack  the  root 
causes  of  poverty,  creating  better  jobs,  improving  the 
quality of education and strengthening families; and, so 
that  these  mechanisms  have  time  to  work,  those  that 
soften  the  impact  of  poverty,  through  the  Ethical 
Family Income programme, which will supplement the 
existing  incomes  of  the  most  vulnerable  families  so 
that  they  are  able  to  overcome  their  poverty.  The 
challenge of eradicating poverty is not simply a moral 
imperative, it is the best investment that any country in 
the  world  can  make 
to  strengthen  democracy, 
consolidate  social  peace  and  promote  economic 
development. 

Finally,  in  addition  to  the  pillars  of  stable 
democracies, economies that allow for the full exercise 
of  liberty  and  enterprise  for  our  citizens  and  the 
achievement  of 
equal 
opportunities, the challenges of the twenty-first century 
involve investing more and better resources in science, 
technology, innovation and enterprise.  

I believe that with such programmes, we will be 
able  to  achieve  goals  that  have  eluded  us  during  the 
first  200  years  of  our  independence  and  be  able  to 
recommit  ourselves  to  meeting  each  and  every  one  of 
the  Goals  that  the Assembly  has  set  for  itself  for  the 
society  with  more 
a 
to 
In 
like 
take 
this  regard,  I  would 
millennium that has just begun. In this way, we hope to 
create  true  opportunities  for  material  and  spiritual 
progress  for  all  of  our  compatriots  and  for  Latin 
America that, I am sure, have never before been seen. 
With the help of God, we will achieve these Goals.  
The Acting Chair: The Assembly will now hear 

an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Denzil  Douglas, 
Prime  Minister,  Minister  of  Finance,  Minister  of 
Sustainable  Development  and  Minister  of  Tourism, 
Sports and Culture of Saint Kitts and Nevis.  
Mr. Douglas (Saint Kitts and Nevis): It is indeed 

a  pleasure  for  me  to  represent  the  Government  and 
people  of  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  as  we  undertake  this 
very  necessary  and  important  collective  review  of 
progress  made  towards  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  These  are  significant 
goals  to  which  we  agreed  a  decade  ago,  to  free  our 
peoples from want.  
this 

opportunity  to  do  three  things.  First,  I  would  like  to 
share  with  you  the  extent  of  my  Government’s  work 
and its ongoing commitment to human security and the 
dignity of all people; secondly, to reiterate our call for 
structured  and  meaningful  global  partnerships  and 
cooperation to tackle the many challenges confronting 
our  peoples;  and,  thirdly,  to  remind  countries  to  fulfil 
their own pledges. 

I  need  not  remind  this Assembly  that  Saint  Kitts 
and  Nevis  is  the  smallest  independent  nation  in  the 
Western  Hemisphere,  with  a  population  just  under 
50,000  and  a  land-mass  of  104  square  miles.  Yet 
smallness has never been a deterrent to progress nor is 
it  an  excuse  not  to  adhere  to  the  highest  standards  of 
democratic  governance,  strict  observance  of  human 
rights, sound economic principles and commitment to a 
high standard of living. 

I am pleased to say that since the late 1990s, we 
have  implemented  internal  mechanisms  and  policies 
which,  coupled  with  citizenship  engagement,  has 
allowed  us  on  an  ongoing  basis  to  be  able  to  assess 
progress  in  fulfilling  our  own  development  needs, 
which coincide with the MDGs. What is this progress I 
refer to? 

First,  according  to  the  latest  Country  Poverty 
Assessment Report, extreme poverty in Saint Kitts and 
Nevis fell from 11 per cent in 2000 to  1.4 per cent in 
2009.  Second,  since  1972,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  has 
18 

10-54521 
in 
terms 
of 
the 
and, 
even 
Sixth, 
before 
projects. 
Seventh, 


enjoyed  compulsory  universal  access  to  primary  and 
secondary  education  and  is  presently  a  leader  in 
universal  early  childhood  education  as  well.  Third, 
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  was  among  the  first  in  the 
to  establish  a  Ministry  of 
Western  Hemisphere 
Women’s  Affairs 
political 
independence 27 years ago, there were women in high 
office  and  decision-making  roles.  Today,  women’s 
empowerment and participation in all levels of policy-
making and governance is the norm, and gender is not 
a  limiting  factor  for  assignment  to  key  posts  in  Saint 
Kitts and Nevis. Fourth, the infant mortality rate in the 
last  decade  has  shown  an  appreciable  downward 
positive  trend.  Fifth,  maternal  mortality  has  been 
negligible  during  the  period  under  review  due  to  my 
Government’s  steady  investment  in  the  health  sector, 
including  capacity-building  consistent  with  its  own 
commitment  to  improve  the  quality  of  life  of  its 
citizens. 
environmental 
sustainability,  our  determined  policies  have  already 
resulted  in  implementation  of  geothermal  and  wind 
energy 
Pan-Caribbean 
Partnership  against  HIV/AIDS,  of  which  Saint  Kitts 
and Nevis is a member, is regarded by the Joint United 
Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS  as  an  international 
best  practice  in  combating  HIV/AIDS.  It  is  also 
renowned for its practices in prevention, treatment and 
care and, indeed, as an advocate for the elimination of 
all  forms  of  discrimination  against  people  affected  by 
the disease. Eighth, on the issue of global partnership, 
due  to  diminishing  official  development  assistance 
(ODA),  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  has  had  to  fund  and 
sustain  MDG  programmes  mainly  from  the  scarce 
resources  of  the  State.  Therefore,  we  welcome  the 
contribution  of  the  Government  and  people  of Taiwan 
and  others  to  our  national  efforts  to  meet  the  MDGs 
through  investment  in  agriculture,  food  security  and 
technology.  Such  partnership,  I  emphasize,  could  be  a 
model  for  developed  countries,  some  of  which  have 
failed to live up to their own commitments. 
I  want  to  assure  the  President  that  our  progress 

towards  achieving  the  2015  MDGs  is  the  result  of 
careful  planning  and  prudent  management.  However, 
we are living in complex times with myriad challenges 
where, 
calibrated 
macroeconomic  policies,  fiscal  prudence  and  financial 
programmes,  our  best  efforts  and  best  practices  are 
often  undermined  by  external  forces,  as  we  have 
witnessed  since  the  onset  in  2008  of  the  global 
financial  crisis  and  economic  meltdown.  Likewise, 
carefully 
despite 
our 
very 
A/65/PV.8
progress  made  through  costly  investments  can  be 
blown  away  in  a  matter  of  minutes  leaving  our  small 
vulnerable  economy  to  the  mercy  of  an  already  tight 
financial  market  and  the  unavailability  of  grants  or 
concessional  loans.  This  has  been  exacerbated  by  the 
unfair calculation of our gross domestic product (GDP) 
per  capita,  which  places  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  in  a 
higher bracket than reality justifiably supports. 

Like  other  nations,  despite  our  careful  efforts  to 
craft  and  implement  our  own  stimulus  packages,  this 
issue of the GDP per capita remains a major handicap, 
one  that  predates  the  global  financial  and  economic 
crises. In this forum, once again, I emphasize that it is 
unfair,  arbitrary, 
indefensible  and  economically 
destabilizing.  For,  while  we  manage  our  affairs 
responsibly,  efficiently  and  competently,  we  are  still 
denied access to crucial concessional loans. 

In the case of Saint Kitts and Nevis, the crushing 
burden  of  the  high  cost  of  borrowing;  the  economic 
and social dislocations resulting from the closure of the 
sugar  industry  five  years  ago;  the  downturn  in  the 
global  economy  and  the  drying  up  of  investment 
capital; the assault on our service sector; and the rising 
level  of  commercial 
to 
undermine our progress in  fulfilling the  MDGs and to 
unravel  that  success  of  our  small  but  progressive  yet 
vulnerable country. 

In addition to this and the impact of the economic 
downturn,  as  we  speak,  hurricanes  swirl  throughout 
this  hemisphere.  The  regularity  and  ferocity  of  floods 
and  hurricanes,  the  incidence  of  sea-level  rise  and 
other catastrophic events are all bold reminders that the 
consequences of climate change are real. 

that  we  are  so  greatly 
concerned  about  the  unravelling  of  the  progress  made 
at  this  point  in  our  review,  just  five  years  before  the 
target  date  for  the  achievement  of  the  MDGs,  is  not 
consistent  with 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals. I am not convinced that it is at all 
indicative of the constructive multilateral collaboration 
that we have been speaking about so boldly for the past 
10 years. 
So, I hereby encourage nations assembled for this 

review  summit  process  to  take  appropriate  action, 
whether  in  their  legislative  bodies  or  in  multilateral 
agencies,  to  promote  the  kind  of  collaborative  efforts 
that advance  the common  good, place  real partnership 
above  parochialism,  and  move  our  peoples  further 
indebtedness  all 
spirit  of 
However, 
the  fact 
threaten 
the 
10-54521 

19 

targets 
A/65/PV.8 

along the path to personal growth and the fulfilment of 
their individual potential. 
The  Acting  Chair:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency Mr. Tonio Borg, Deputy Prime Minister and 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Malta. 
Mr. Borg (Malta): Ten years ago, we gathered in 

this  same  Assembly  Hall  to  launch  a  process  to  give 
new  hope  to  humankind.  By  adopting  the  Millennium 
Declaration  (resolution  55/2)  and  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  our  Heads  of  State  and 
Government  promised  our  peoples  to  meet  eight 
important 
to  eradicate  or  reduce  extreme 
poverty, hunger, illiteracy and disease, and to engage in 
a  partnership  for  development.  Our  leaders  acted 
collectively  and  with  determination.  Through  our 
political  commitment  to  action,  we  gave  the  poor  and 
vulnerable populations hope and aspirations for a better 
future,  especially  by  overcoming  the  challenges  that 
they  continue  to  face  as  a  result  of  the  global 
economic, financial and food crises, conflicts and man-
made and natural calamities. 

With  only  five  years  remaining  in  which  to 
achieve our promises and our commitments to meet the 
targets  of  the  MDGs  by  2015,  this  High-level  Plenary 
Meeting of the General Assembly provides us with the 
critical  opportunity 
review  our  actions  and 
contributions so far, to ensure that the progress gained 
in the past 10 years is sustained and maintained, and to 
agree on a coherent and cohesive strategy for achieving 
the MDGs in the next five years and beyond.  
The  Secretary-General  has  defined  2010  as  the 

“year of development”.  It is therefore  appropriate that 
this  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  has  been  focusing  on 
what needs to be done to accelerate the momentum to 
achieve 
the  estimated 
1.4 billion  people  still  living  in  extreme  poverty,  the 
830  million  people  still  undernourished,  and  the  more 
than  42  million  refugees  and  persons  displaced  by 
conflict  or  persecution.  Indeed,  Malta  received  a 
number of those refugees during the past year.  

The  Meeting  has  also  focused  on  ways  of 
reducing the risk of death, disability or economic loss 
owing  to  natural  disasters,  including  climate  change; 
increasing  opportunities 
for  universal  education; 
continuing  to  improve  gender  parity  in  enrolment  in 
education;  sustaining  and  accelerating  the  decline  in 
the  number  of  8.8  million  child  deaths;  achieving  the 
5.5-per-cent  annual  decline  in  maternal  mortality; 
the  MDGs  by 
reducing 
to 
development 
complemented 
policies 
the 
strategies, 
by 
improving maternal health; and lowering the 2 million 
AIDS-related  deaths.  It  has  also  considered  how  to 
ensure environmental sustainability by reducing the 30 
billion  metric  tons  of  global  emissions  of  carbon 
dioxide.  
The Millennium Development Goals Report 2010 

indicates  that  progress  in  achieving  those  Goals  and 
towards  meeting  the  MDGs  in  some  regions  of  the 
world  has  been  made.  Those  achievements  are  real, 
even  if  they  are  uneven.  However,  by  putting  as  a 
priority  the  concept  of  human  development  through 
what  the  Secretary-General  describes  as  nationally 
and 
owned 
programmes, 
overseas 
development aid of international development partners, 
the  international  community  has  gone  a  long  way 
towards  ensuring  that  the  benefits  of  progress  are 
widely and, where possible, equally shared. 

At  the  same  time,  considering  the  financial  and 
economic upheavals that States Members of the United 
Nations  have  been  facing  for  many  months,  it  would 
seem  that  the  road  ahead  is  likely  to  be  even  more 
challenging. Therefore, a renewed effort must be made 
to strengthen our partnership so that, through unity and 
cooperation,  we can achieve the MDGs, which,  as the 
Secretary-General stated in the foreword to the Report, 
“will  put  us  on  a  fast  track  to  a  world  that  is  more 
stable, more just and more secure”.  

in 
acknowledging  the  need  to  exert  ourselves  more 
strongly 
the  MDGs  by  2015.  The 
achievement  of 
that 
populations  in  middle-  and  low-income  countries, 
including the small and fragile States, would enjoy the 
basic essentials and necessities of a decent life. While 
the  MDGs  were  established  during  relatively  stable 
times,  when  planning,  growth  and  aid  were  relatively 
predictable,  we  are  now  navigating  in  unknown  and 
uncertain waters. As we move closer to 2015, it is more 
than  likely  that  the  international  community  will  have 
to devise and adopt an adjusted framework, as well as 
innovative  approaches, 
for  and 
mobilization of development mechanisms to respond to 
those changes. 

It  would  not  be  appropriate  to  take  for  granted 
continued  support  for  the  MDGs,  even  beyond  2015, 
without  responding  to  the  concerns  and  criticism 
voiced  by  several  stakeholders.  No  development  is 
the  Goals  would  ensure 
other  Member 
to  achieve 
in 
the 
search 
Malta 
joins 
States 
20 

10-54521 


possible without building an environment conducive to 
security  and  cooperation,  and  no  long-term  security 
can  be  guaranteed  without  further  developing  the 
global  partnership  for  development.  Malta  therefore 
believes that it is of vital importance that the review of 
the  success  and  failures  of  the  MDGs  should  be  a 
constant  process  that  reflects  our  changing  political, 
economic  and  social  environment,  with  the  main 
priority of offering support for sustainable progress in 
poverty reduction. 

Malta  continues  to  fully  accept  its  commitments 
and  responsibilities  both  as  a  State  Member  of  the 
United  Nations  and  as  a  signatory  of  the  Millennium 
Declaration. As a member State of the European Union 
and in its national capacity, Malta continues to provide 
its  modest  share  of  assistance  in  contributing  to  the 
development of developing countries.  

The  basis  of  that  policy  is  Malta’s  belief  that 
education, health and food security are the foundations 
of  human  and  sustainable  development,  acting  as 
catalysts  for  the  achievement  of  all  development 
objectives.  For  that  reason,  the  Government  of  Malta 
ensures  that  its  development  policy  focuses  primarily, 
but not exclusively, on countries in the Horn of Africa 
and  in  sub-Saharan  Africa  that  are  facing  major 
obstacles and difficulties in attaining the MDGs.  

Indeed,  over  the  past  two  years,  among  other 
contributions,  Malta 
several 
humanitarian  projects  in  Africa,  Asia  and  Central 
America.  Based  on  the  notion  of  fighting  poverty 
through  development,  such  projects  address  the  most 
basic  needs  of  local  populations  and  communities  and 
include  a  rainwater  harvesting  project  in  Uganda,  a 
number of housing, educational and medical centres in 
Ethiopia,  various  educational  institutions  in  Kenya, 
medical  and  educational  facilities  in  Tanzania,  and 
other projects in India, Sri Lanka, Pakistan, Guatemala, 
Peru and the Philippines. 

and 
partnership,  Malta  will  work  assiduously  and  closely 
with  other  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  to 
fulfil  the  Millennium  promise  to  bring  to  reality  the 
Millennium Development Goals. 
The  Acting  Chair:  I  now  give  the  floor  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Kanat  Saudabayev,  Secretary  of  State 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of 
Kazakhstan. 
commitment 
co-financed 
continued 
Through 
has 
a 
A/65/PV.8
In 
(spoke 
(Kazakhstan) 
Mr.  Saudabayev
in 

Russian): This summit takes on particular significance 
as  part  of  the  implementation  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  set  by 
the  General 
Assembly  10  years  ago,  since  people  throughout  the 
world  expect  decisions  and  outcomes  from  it  that  live 
up to their hopes for peace, security, development and 
prosperity. 

Kazakhstan believes that the summit provides an 
opportunity  for  us  to  eliminate  the  gap  between  the 
socio-economic  development  of  developed 
and 
developing  countries. 
that  regard,  we  attach 
particular  importance  to  the  completion  of  the  Doha 
Round of trade talks. Moreover, today,  measures must 
be  taken  to  stabilize  and  even  out  the  levels  of 
countries’ technological development.  

Today’s  meeting  of  the  international  community 
should  address  issues  threatening  the  planet,  such  as 
the  growing  global  energy  crisis  and  the  increasing 
threat  of  adverse  climate  change.  In  that  connection, 
speaking  from  this  rostrum,  the  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Kazakhstan,  Nursultan  Nazarbayev, 
proposed  discussions  to  elaborate  a  global  energy  and 
environment  strategy  for  discussion  at  the  World 
Summit  on  Sustainable  Development  in  2012.  In  our 
view,  energy  and  environmental 
forecasting  and 
developing  an  active  partnership  among  civilizations 
on  that  basis  are  the  most  essential  elements  of  a 
radical  and  innovative  revitalization  of  the  world 
community. 

Today,  as the State chairing the Organization for 
Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe,  Kazakhstan  is 
contributing  significantly  to  the  achievement  of  the 
United  Nations  goals.  We  are  undertaking  security, 
economic  and  humanitarian  initiatives  both  nationally 
and  internationally.  Under  the  leadership  of  its  first 
President,  Nursultan  Nazarbayev,  Kazakhstan’s 
successful  economic,  social  and  political  development 
in 19 years of independence shows than the MDGs can 
be  achieved  with  a  clear  development  strategy,  the 
political will of States and the close cooperation of the 
international community.  

in 
achieving  the  MDGs,  but  in  taking  on  additional 
obligations  in  various  areas  as  part  of  MDG+.  Thus, 
since  the  adoption  of  the  Millennium  Declaration 
(resolution  55/2)  10  years  ago,  Kazakhstan  has 
demonstrated  strong  economic  growth.  It  had  already 
Kazakhstan  has  made  progress  not  only 
10-54521 

21 

to 
the 
Under 
sustain 
its  natural 
economic  growth, 
A/65/PV.8 

doubled  its  economy  by  2007  compared  to  2000,  and 
we  intend  to  triple  it  by  2015.  Owing  to  current 
economic  measures  and  sound  financial  reserves  of 
more  than  $50  billion,  accumulated  as  a  result  of  the 
effective  management  of 
resources, 
Kazakhstan  has  successfully  overcome  all  effects  of 
the  global  financial  crisis. At  the  same  time,  we  have 
managed 
reduce 
unemployment and fully meet all social obligations. 

the  State  programme  of  accelerated 
industrial  and  innovative  development,  we  intend  to 
continue 
technological  modernization  of  our 
economy.  In  the  past  decade,  the  number  of  people 
with  an  income  below  subsistence  level  has  been 
reduced to one fourth of what it was. Hunger has long 
ceased to be an issue in Kazakhstan. 

There  has  been  a  steady  increase  in  expenditure 
on  education  and  health,  more  than  eightfold  in  the 
past  10  years. The  infrastructure  of  the  education  and 
health  systems  has  been  upgraded. A  unified  network 
of modern schools and medical facilities is being set up 
throughout 
the  country.  Enrolment  of  secondary 
schoolchildren is nearly 100 per cent. The literacy rate 
in the country stands at 99.6 per cent. 

Health  indicators  have  improved  significantly. 
Life expectancy has increased from 65 to 68 years. The 
incidence of tuberculosis has decreased by 30 per cent. 
Maternal mortality has been halved, and the birth rate 
has increased by a one and half times. 

We have attached particular importance to women 
having  a  greater  role  in  the  State’s  political  life.  The 
goal  is  to  have  women  in  30  per  cent  of  decision-
making positions by 2016. 

Kazakhstan  has  also  made  some  progress  in 
meeting  its  commitments  on  ensuring  environmental 
sustainability.  A  sustainable  development  strategy  to 
2020 is being successfully implemented in the country. 
In  order 
together  European  and  Asian 
processes  of  transition  to  sustainable  development, 
Kazakhstan  has  launched  the  Green  Bridge  initiative, 
which  provides  for  wide-ranging  cooperation  on  the 
protection  of 
transborder  ecosystems  and  climate 
change adaptation. It will be submitted in greater detail 
during 
on 
environment,  economy  and  social  protection  of  the 
countries  of  the  United  Nations  Economic  and  Social 
Commission  for  Asia  and  the  Pacific,  to  be  held  in 
Astana next week. 
sixth  Ministerial  Conference 
to  bring 
the 
the 
the 
and 
system 
in  addressing 
importance  of 
themselves  have 
We  appreciate  the  assistance  provided  by  the 

United  Nations 
international 
community  to  overcome  the  effects  of  ecological 
disasters in the Aral Sea and Semipalatinsk regions. We 
the  new  comprehensive 
note 
development-oriented  approach 
the 
existing set of tasks. 

This  summit  is  a  test  of  our  collective  political 
will  to  implement  the  Millennium  Declaration.  Of 
course,  countries 
the  primary 
responsibility  for  achieving  the  MDGs.  However,  the 
international  community  can  and  should  support 
national  efforts.  To  achieve  the  MDGs,  the  quantity 
and quality of official development assistance must be 
increased.  We  welcome  the  steps  taken  by  many 
developed  countries  to  meet  the  commitment  to  bring 
their official development assistance to 0.7 per cent of 
gross domestic product by 2015. 

Until quite recently, Kazakhstan received foreign 
aid, but today, thanks to successful economic reforms, 
our  country  has  already  joined  the  group  of  States 
known  as  new  donors.  We  provide  assistance  to 
countries  in  the  Central  Asian  region.  In  the  case  of 
Afghanistan,  Kazakhstan  provides  $50  million 
in 
grants  to  train  a  thousand  Afghan  specialists  in  our 
universities  and  vocational  schools,  which  will 
certainly  help  that  country  to  achieve  the  MDGs.  We 
believe that the joint efforts of the entire international 
community  to  further  promote  global  solidarity  and 
assistance  to  developing  countries  are  needed  to 
achieve the MDGs. 

The draft political outcome document (A/65/L.1) 
to be adopted at the end of this Meeting is a step in the 
right  direction.  It  will  reaffirm  the  commitment  by  all 
Member  States 
the  MDGs  and  reinforce  our 
collective  efforts  and  partnerships  aimed  at  attaining 
all  that  we  have  set  for  ourselves  by  2015.  The 
Assembly  has  been  mandated 
the 
acceleration of progress towards achieving the MDGs. 
Kazakhstan  is  ready  to  contribute  actively  to  this 
process  and  has  set  an  example  that  proves  that  the 
Millennium Goals are achievable. 
The Acting Chair: The Assembly will now hear 

an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Boyko  Borissov, 
Prime Minister of the Republic of Bulgaria. 
Mr.  Borissov  (Bulgaria)  (spoke  in  Bulgarian; 

English  interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation): 
From  this  high  rostrum  I  would  like  to  salute  the 
facilitate 
to 
to 
22 

10-54521 
for 
today 
celebrates 


Bulgarian  nation,  which 
its 
independence day. For 102 years this Bulgarian holiday 
has  remained  convincing  proof  that  an  entire  nation 
can  stand  up 
its  sovereignty  and  develop 
successfully.  I  congratulate  all  Bulgarian  citizens  in 
Bulgaria  and  throughout  the  world  on  the  occasion  of 
this  Bulgarian  holiday  and  salute  them  for  having 
never,  ever  denied  help  to  those  who  were  weaker  or 
needier. 

All  of  us  gathered  here  to  discuss  the  global 
challenges  that  affect  mankind  recognize  that  the 
modern  world  combines  at  the  same  time  remarkable 
accomplishments  which  improve  the  lives  of  people 
around the world and deficiencies in our development, 
tending to downgrade it.  

It cannot be denied that much has been achieved 
during  the  past  two  decades.  Over  1.6  billion  people 
gained  access  to  drinking  water,  over  400  million 
people  were  relieved  of  the  burden  of  poverty  and 
advances 
in  science  and  medicine  have  made 
vaccinations  against  incurable  diseases  possible  while 
other diseases have been eradicated. At the same time, 
however,  humankind  spends  $1.5  trillion  each  year  in 
order  to  guarantee  peace  and  security  while  one 
eleventh  of  that  sum  is  invested  in  development 
assistance.  We  cannot  shy  away  from  the  fact  that 
millions of people in the  developing world survive on 
10  litres  of  water  per  day;  against  this,  there  are 
installations and equipment in the developed world that 
expend  tens  of  times  more  water  per  hour.  Such  a 
world needs change. 

From  this  high  rostrum  I  would  like  to  state 
categorically that Bulgaria is fully aware of the global 
need  for  development.  We  shall  contribute  within  our 
capacity 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs), because we are only too 
conscious  of 
importance  of  solidarity  as  a 
fundamental principle of policy. 

Bulgaria’s  policy  of  engagement  in  international 
development  cooperation  clearly  indicates  our  resolve 
to live up to the commitments undertaken at the major 
United  Nations 
international 
development issues, as well as the June 2005 decision 
of the European Council on new targets for the volume 
of  official  development  assistance  provided  by 
European  Union  (EU)  member  States.  In  spite  of  the 
additional  economic  and  financial  challenges  that  we 
the  achievement  of 
conferences 
to 
the 
on 
A/65/PV.8
face,  my  country  continues  to  build  its  capacity  as  a 
donor of international assistance.  

We in Bulgaria are ourselves confronted by many 
challenges,  including  problems  relating  to  our  own 
development  and  living  standards.  Nevertheless,  we 
consistently  fulfil  the  commitments  we  have  made  in 
the  field  of 
international  development  assistance, 
because  we  are  very  well  aware  of  how  important 
international  solidarity  is  when  one  must  resolve  vital 
problems affecting the well-being of people around the 
world.  

My country relies heavily on European solidarity 
and  the  opportunities  it  offers  for  developing  our 
economy  and  improving  the  living  standards  of  the 
Bulgarian  people.  That  is  exactly  why  we  are  fully 
conscious of the significance of solidarity and why we 
stand ready to provide it to other regions of the world 
that are in need. All our efforts to promptly restore the 
dynamism  and  economic  prosperity  of  Bulgaria’s 
economy  as  part  of  the  overall  European  economic 
recovery process have proved the most efficient way of 
generating  additional  resources  for  development,  as 
well. 
Currently,  the  geographic  focus  of  Bulgaria’s 

development  assistance 
the  countries  of  our 
neighbourhood:  the  Balkan  and  Black  Sea  regions. 
However,  through  our  financial  contribution  to  the 
tenth  European  Development  Fund  we will  support  as 
well — although indirectly — the development efforts 
of  countries  in  Africa  and  the  Caribbean  and  Pacific 
regions. 
Poverty  eradication  with  all  its  implications  and 

dimensions 
the  main  objective  of  Bulgaria’s 
development  cooperation  policy.  The  sectors  of 
education,  socio-economic 
transition,  health  care 
reform, 
environmental 
protection and the preservation of cultural diversity are 
among  the  priorities  of  our  development  assistance 
efforts.  For  all  of  this  to  happen,  we  need  more  than 
just  financial  resources.  We  need  experts;  we  need 
specialists; we need know-how. It is with such forms of 
assistance 
that  countries  with  moderate  financial 
resources,  such  as  Bulgaria,  can  generate  maximum 
added  value,  operating  within  a  framework  of  better 
coordinated international mechanisms. 

Here  I  would  like  to  express  my  conviction  that 
improving  the  quality  of  aid  is  no  less  important  for 
achieving  the  MDGs  than  increasing  its  volume.  That 
infrastructure 
projects, 
is 
is 
10-54521 

23 
It 
is 
of 
the 
achievement 
that  we  hold 
in  our  own  hands 
A/65/PV.8 

is  why  our  development  policy  is  based  on  the 
principles of aid effectiveness which were laid down in 
the Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness and further 
reaffirmed in the Accra Agenda for Action. 

the 
opportunity  to  change  the  world  we  live  in.  Hence,  I 
am convinced that with a collective effort we can reach 
our common goal, namely poverty eradication. In fact, 
through 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals we can do more: we can right the 
wrong; we can stand the world on its feet, as it should 
be.  Let  us  not  deprive  ourselves  of  this  priceless 
opportunity. 
The Acting Chair: The Assembly will now hear 

an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Musa  M. 
Abdussalam  Kousa,  Secretary  of  the  General  People’s 
Committee  for  Foreign  Liaison  and  International 
Cooperation  of  the  Socialist  People’s  Libyan  Arab 
Jamahiriya. 
Mr.  Kousa  (Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke  in 

Arabic): At  the  outset,  I  would  like,  on  behalf  of  my 
delegation,  to  express  our  deep  appreciation  and 
gratitude  for 
this 
important  Meeting.  I  would  like  to  convey  special 
thanks to the Secretary-General for his comprehensive 
and accurate report (A/64/665) on the follow-up to the 
outcome of the Millennium Summit, entitled “Keeping 
the promise”, which indeed defines the purpose of our 
Meeting.  I  congratulate  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly on his election to the presidency at the sixty-
fifth  session  and  wish  him  success  in  carrying  out  his 
formidable tasks during the session. 

I  would  also  like  to  express  my  appreciation  to 
the  outgoing  President  for  his  efforts  to  make  this 
Meeting 
Permanent 
Representative  of  Senegal,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Paul 
Badji,  and  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Denmark, 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Carsten  Staur,  for  their  key  roles 
and tireless efforts  as facilitators for the meetings and 
negotiations that led to consensus on the draft outcome 
document (A/65/L.1). 

I  express  our  deep  gratitude  to  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  our  sister  country  Yemen,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Abdullah  M.  Alsaidi,  for  his  wise 
stewardship of the Group of 77 and China and his role 
during  the  negotiations  in  defending  the  interests  and 
objectives  of  developing  countries  in  their  efforts  to 
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  In  this 
the  efforts  made 
to  organize 
successful 
and 
the 
to 

the 
related 
science 
industry, 
technology, 
the  challenges 
the  developing  and 
context,  my  delegation  would  like  to  associate  itself 
with 
statement  made  by  His  Excellency 
Mr. Abubakr A. Al-Qirbi,  Minister  for  Foreign Affairs 
of Yemen, on behalf of the Group of 77 and China and 
to note that my country will have the honour of hosting 
the Group’s Third South Summit early in 2011. 

Ten  years  have  passed  since  the  international 
community assembled here at the Millennium Summit 
in  order  to  consider  the  situation  of  the  world’s  most 
deprived people — those living in poverty, affected by 
disease,  and  held  back  by  illiteracy,  gender  inequality 
and  other  socio-economic  conditions 
to 
underdevelopment — and issues of international peace 
and  security,  in  particular  in  Africa  and  the  Middle 
East.  The  concept  for  that  meeting  grew  out  of  the 
international community’s realization that, because the 
world has now become one village, all States bear the 
responsibility  for  dealing  with 
to 
sustainable  socio-economic  development. At  the  same 
time, the recent financial and economic crises affecting 
agriculture, 
and 
economics in the developed countries have doubled the 
burden  on 
least  developed 
countries,  which  have  already  spent  decades  suffering 
the consequences of socio-economic underdevelopment 
and  confronting  obstacles  to  their  efforts  to  build  and 
maintain peace and security. 
We are holding this Meeting at a time when it is 

possible to consider the options that are available to the 
international community and agree on a plan of action 
for the next five years to review and assess the pledges 
and  commitments  made  as  part  of 
the  global 
partnership  for  sustainable  development  framed  by 
Member  States 
the  Millennium  Declaration 
(resolution  55/2)  and  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  This  Meeting  is  also  being  held  to  discuss  the 
social challenges faced by developing countries due to 
the  financial  and  economic  crises  resulting  from 
injudicious  economic  and  monetary  policies  and 
financial  speculation  in  the  markets  of  the  major 
industrialized  countries.  This  is  in  addition  to  price 
fluctuations in energy, agriculture and food, as well as 
climate  change, 
lack  of  security  and 
instability, 
particularly in Africa and the Middle East. 
These  crises  negatively  impacted  the  resources 

and 
necessary 
counteracted 
the 
vigorous efforts of the developing countries, which had 
managed to make some progress towards achieving the 
for 
the  gains  made  so  far,  despite 
development 
programmes 
in 
24 

10-54521 
in 
the 
that  people’s 


Millennium Development Goals. Full attainment of the 
Goals  will  remain  elusive  unless  the  political  will 
matches  the  promises  and  commitments  made  to  the 
developing  countries.  How  otherwise  will  we  be  able 
to eliminate poverty for more than half a billion people 
before 2015?  

We recognize that official development assistance 
registered  an  overall  30  per  cent  increase  to  $120 
billion between 2004 and 2009 and that several of the 
poorest  countries  benefited  from  debt  cancellation. 
However,  the  majority  of  donor  States  were  unable  to 
meet  the  target  of  0.7  per  cent  of  their  gross  national 
product. 

While  achieving  a  reasonable  economic  growth 
rate is important, it is even more critical to bring about 
a 
infrastructure  and  social 
real  change 
framework  so 
lives,  food  security, 
environment and health improve and the conditions for 
attaining  all  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  are 
enhanced.  This  can  only  be  done  by  integrating 
confidence-building  and  cooperation  in  development 
efforts at the national level, including through bilateral 
and  multilateral  partnerships,  and  by  enhancing  and 
strengthening the role of the United Nations.  

In this regard, we cannot deny the part played by 
the  Group  of  Twenty  in  financial  and  economic 
governance  at  the  international  level.  However,  the 
United  Nations  will  continue  to  play  its  leading  and 
comprehensive  role  in  the  efforts  of  the  international 
contain 
community 
transboundary  crises.  This 
the 
Organization’s  international  legitimacy,    its  wealth  of 
experience  and  its  capacity  to  deal  with  the  costly 
global crises which require comprehensive responses at 
all levels. 

The risk of a second economic crisis remains very 
real  in  view  of  the  relative  recoveries  of  some 
economies,  which  do  not 
social 
repercussions of the financial and economic crisis. The 
best  example  of  this  is  the  sovereign  debt  crisis  that 
affected 
The 
macroeconomic  indicators  do  not  fully  reflect  the 
social  and  humanitarian  situation  in  the  developing 
countries,  especially  in  Africa,  including  increased 
unemployment,  malnutrition,  famine,  child  mortality, 
setbacks 
illegal 
immigration,  trafficking  in  persons  and  drugs,  and 
transboundary crime, not to mention desertification and 
affecting  women 
is  because  of 
fight  poverty 
industrialized 
and  youth, 
countries. 
reflect 
some 
and 
to 
to 
the 
A/65/PV.8
their 
issues  and 
international 
independence 
self-determination, 
drought.  These  issues  have  exacerbated  political  and 
security  tensions,  not  only  in  some  communities  and 
countries,  but,  what  is  even  more  worrying,  at  the 
regional and international levels. 

In  this  context,  my  country  affirms  the  right  of 
countries  and  peoples  under  foreign  occupation  to 
achieve 
and 
sovereignty  and  to  attain  their  social,  economic  and 
political  goals.  We  are  thinking  above  all  of  the 
Palestinian people. The reference to “recovery for all” 
should be taken to mean vulnerable peoples in a broad 
sense  rather  than  a  narrow  and  selective  sense.  We 
associate  ourselves  with  the  Global  Pulse  initiative  of 
the  Secretary-General  and  the  aim  of  issuing  early 
warnings  about  crises  and  narrowing  the  information 
gap,  thereby  enabling  the  Assembly  to  adopt  timely 
decisions.  

All  these  matters  have  been  agreed  to  by  my 
country as part of its support for the role of the United 
Nations,  and  in  particular  the  General  Assembly,  to 
address 
impact  on 
development.  Such  issues  include  the  concept  of 
comprehensive  international  economic  regulation  to 
address the financial, social, humanitarian and security 
aspects of development. 

Africa  has  suffered  harsh  economic,  social  and 
environmental  conditions  relative  to  other  continents. 
As  a  result  of  drought,  famine  is  a  threat  in  many 
regions,  especially  in  the    Sahara  and  West  Africa, 
which  also  suffer  from  inadequate  investment  in 
infrastructure projects, especially in terms of roads and 
transportation.  My  country  has  taken  the  initiative  of 
investing  in  agriculture,  mineral  resources  and  also 
social  infrastructure,  including  clinics,  schools  and 
roads, the most important roads being those that cross 
the desert  and lead to the landlocked countries.  

My  country  has  also  established  and  financed 
national  entities  to  carry  out  many  projects  in  such 
fields 
and 
communications    through  the  establishment  of  the 
Libya-Africa 
capital 
totalling  $5  billion.  This  portfolio 
represents  a 
consortium  which  owns  a  group  of  companies,  banks 
and  funds  with  responsibility  for  financing  projects 
that  support  national  development  programmes  in 
many  African  countries.  My  country  also  contributes 
large  amounts 
financing 
institutions at the regional and international levels. 
Investment  Portfolio,  with 
to  many  development 
energy,  mineral 
resources 
as 
10-54521 

25 
in 
fair 
and 
hunger 
and 

poverty 
A/65/PV.8 


With regard to social and economic development 
efforts  in  Libya,  we  have  begun  to  reconsider  our 
economic  structure  and  political  and  economic 
international  relations 
line  with  regional  and 
international  economic  and  political  transformations 
and our own geo-economic proximity to the European 
Union,  the African  Union,  the  Mediterranean  Sea,  the 
Middle  East  and  Africa,  as  well  as  our  status  as  an 
energy- exporting country, with harsh climate climatic 
conditions, located in the vast Saharan region. Through 
our  social  security  and 
income-distribution 
programmes,  our  national  efforts  have  been  aimed  at 
achieving improvement in living standards, eradicating 
extreme 
expanding 
development to remote areas. Our country has adopted 
a  number  of  policies  to  increase  family  income  by 
setting  a  minimum  wage,  establishing  a  national 
programmes  for  small-  and  medium-sized  enterprises 
and providing microfinancing for youth and women. 
With  regard  to  education,  the  percentage  of 

students  enrolled  in  basic  primary  schools  stood  at 
98.2 per  cent  in  2007,  of  which  girls  represented  48.4 
per  cent  and  boys  51.6  per  cent.  That  was  achieved 
thanks  to  a  free  compulsory  primary  education  policy 
for  all  citizens.  Our  gender  equality  policy,  which  is 
applied  in  the  social,  economic,  political  and  military 
sectors, gives women their rights and provides support 
for the approach adopted by the State and communities 
to  implement  those  rights  at  the  cultural,  social  and 
economic levels. 

With  regard  to  reducing  child  and  maternal 
mortality,  Libya  has  made  remarkable  progress  by 
implementing intensive vaccination programmes in the 
areas of vaccination, eradicating such diseases such as 
child  polio  and  controlling  measles.  Our  country  is 
seeking  to  increase  medical  care  in  rural  areas  and  to 
improve medical services in general, so as to follow up 
pregnancies and child deliveries under special medical 
supervision.  The  percentage  of  women  provided  with 
prenatal medical care stands at 98 per cent. Currently, 
life expectancy is at 78 years for women and 76 years 
for  men.  That  reflects  a  significant  improvement  in 
living standards and medical health services in Libya. 
immunodeficiency 
With 

syndrome 
for 
communicable  and  endemic  disease  preventions 
monitors  a  national  programme  for  the  prevention  of 
AIDS.  The  programme  has  been  successful 
in 
identifying  infections,  raising  awareness  about  the 
regard 
(AIDS), 
to  acquired 
national 
centre 
our 
for 
and 
desertification 
large-scale  projects 
disease  and  promoting  preventive  measures  among 
citizens  and  our  large  numbers  of  illegal  immigrants 
alike. 

It  is  no  exaggeration  to  say  that  our  concern  for 
the  environmental  situation  in  Libya  is  based  on  the 
fact  that  Libya  occupies  a  very  large  geographic 
expanse with  very few water resources  and is situated 
in the so-called desert belt. In fact, Libya’s experience 
is  important  and  unique  in  that  it  has  implemented  an 
enormous man-made river and transport system project 
that  runs  from  its  desert  interior  through  its  entire 
national  territory.  The  project’s  4,000  kilometres  of 
underground  pipes  provide  water 
for  drinking, 
irrigation, and urban use. Our country aims to develop 
other  parallel 
seawater 
desalination  and  waste  water  reuse.  However,  our 
neighbouring  Saharan  countries  and  our  Saharan 
environment  as a whole  remains subject to the risk of 
drought, 
environmental 
vulnerability. 

I  would  be  remiss  if  I  concluded  my  statement 
without  referring  to  the  importance  that  my  country 
attaches  to  the  development  of  a  world  partnership  at 
the  bilateral,  regional  and  international  levels  with  a 
comprehensive vision for cooperation and development 
integrating the social, economic, political and security 
dimensions. There can be no sustainable peace without 
sustainable  development.  Democratic  governance  and 
respect  for  human  rights  cannot  be  achieved  without 
the  implementation  fulfilment  of  the  obligations  and 
pledges  that  the  international  community  has  assumed 
in international resolutions and forums. This is a shared 
responsibility to which my country is committed. 
The  Acting  Chair:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His Excellency Mr. Luis Almagro, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs  representative    of  the  Eastern  Republic  of 
Uruguay. 
Mr.  Almagro  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  At 

the outset, I would like to express my gratitude for the 
convening  of  this  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on  a 
review of the progress made and pending challenges in 
achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). 

The  set  of  public  policies  and  measures  carried 
out  by  our  national  Government  have  substantially 
contributed  to  achieving  progress  in  meeting  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  However,  with  only 
five  years  remaining  towards  the  deadline  set  by  the 
26 

10-54521 
As 
the 
living 
in  mind 
to  groups 
to  address 
a  medium-income 


Millennium Declaration, despite the efforts made there 
is still a long way to go in achieving the Goals. 

Uruguay  is  seriously  committed  to  reducing 
poverty,  eliminating  extreme  poverty  and  moving 
towards  greater  economic  and  social  equity.  To  that 
end, we have made serious efforts to eradicate poverty 
by implementing a series of social policies such as our 
social  emergency  plan,  which  provides  temporary 
monetary  assistance 
in  extreme 
poverty.  That  plan  was 
followed  by  a  more 
comprehensive  equity  plan,  which  aims  to  expand  the 
changes already begun, restructure the social protection 
system  and  initiate  more  wide-scale  social  reforms. 
Likewise,  keeping 
importance  of 
continuing  work  the  effort  to  provide  dignified  and 
productive  employment  for  all  social  sectors,  we  are 
currently developing our Uruguay work plan. 

country,  Uruguay 
participates  in  the  One  United  Nations  Initiative,  an 
interesting  undertaking 
inequality  and 
support  emerging  trends  that  serve  to  promote  social 
development. 
However,  we  still  face  serious  challenges  in 

continuing to address the needs of the most vulnerable 
groups and ensure the provision of food to groups that 
are in at critical stages of their life stages related to the 
process  because  of  biological  reproduction  and  or 
social integration, as they are the ones most affected by 
insufficient nutrition.  

Moreover, with regard to the international goal on 
education,  I  am  pleased  to  report  that  my  country  has 
achieved  that  target.  Nevertheless,  there  are  still 
serious  challenges  with  regard  to  our  national  goal  of 
universalizing  secondary  education  and  expanding 
tertiary  education.  Likewise,  our  country  is  making 
efforts  to  improve  the  quality  of  education,  raise  the 
salaries  of  educators  and  invest  in  necessary  basic 
infrastructure. In that connection, we have put in place 
innovative educational programmes that have produced 
very positive results. Those include the Ceibal plan to 
provide  one  laptop  per  child,  which  has  reduced  the 
digital  gap  by  providing  an 
Internet-connected 
computer to every child. 

Moreover,  in  meeting  the  international  goal  to 
promote  gender  equality  and  empower  women, 
Uruguay  has  demonstrated 
to 
achieving  its  national  goal  for  eliminating  gender 
inequalities  in  work  opportunities  and  conditions  and 
its  commitment 
A/65/PV.8
is 
in 
there 
still  an 
imbalance 
in  recent  years 
in  public  and  private  decision-making.  In  that  regard, 
although  between  2005  and  2009  we  significantly 
reduced  the  unemployment  rate  for  both  men  and 
women, 
their 
unemployment levels. 

To  promote  gender  equality  and  women’s 
empowerment,  Uruguay  has  adopted  a  series  of 
measures  for  reaching  the  Goals,  such  as  the  first 
national plan for equal opportunities and rights and the 
National  Coordinating  Council  for  Public  Policies  on 
Gender  Equality.  In  2009,  we  created  a  gender 
information system. 

Uruguay  places  fundamental  importance  on  the 
Goal  of  reducing  the  under-five  mortality  rate.  In 
recent  decades,  major  progress  has  been  made  thanks 
to  control  of  diarrhoeic  diseases  and  respiratory 
infections. Although the indicators in this area are very 
satisfactory, 
the  Government  has 
strengthened its policies and health programmes geared 
towards young children, which has reduced the under-
one mortality rate by half over the period 1990 to 2008.   

Through  the  creation  of  our  national  integrated 
health  system,  we  are  aiming  to  improve  health 
coverage  to  population  sectors  that  are  considered 
priority,  such  as  children  and  adolescents.  We  would 
like to mention other programmes directed at  children 
and  adolescents  that  have  been  implemented,  such  as 
the  National  Children’s  Health  Programme, 
the 
National  Adolescent  Health  Programme  and 
the 
National Women’s and Gender Programme. 
for  enhancing 

services  for  pregnant  women,  for  children  under  three 
and for the most vulnerable sectors of society, as well 
as  a  tobacco  control  programme,  as  tobacco  is  one  of 
the  most  important  factors  in  determining  children’s 
birth weight. 

reducing  maternal 
mortality by three quarters between 1990 and 2015, our 
country is on its way to reaching the Goal through the 
implementation  of  programmes 
active 
prevention  and  monitoring  policy  among  pregnant 
women.  The  implementation  of  activities  such  as  a 
contraception  programme,  a  programme  on  health 
initiatives  to  prevent  unsafe  abortions,  a  programme 
for comprehensive women’s care and plans for sex and 
reproductive  health  education,  among  other  activities, 
have in recent years led to a significant reduction in the 
maternal  mortality  rate.  It  is  also  worth  noting  that  in 
There  are  also  programmes 
the  Goal  of 
Regarding 
and 
an 
10-54521 

27 

the 
among 
A/65/PV.8 

Uruguay, care is provided in 90 per cent of pregnancies 
in the first and second trimesters and almost all births 
are medically assisted. 

The  fight  against  HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  other 
diseases  is  a  subject  of  particular  importance  for 
Uruguay.  Outstanding 
achievements 
obtained  in  halting  the  advance  of AIDS  and  slowing 
its spread is the reduction in cases of infection through 
blood  contact  and  of  mother-to-child  transmission.  In 
the  area  of  prevention,  a  national  programme  for 
prevention  of  sexually 
transmitted  diseases  and 
HIV/AIDS has been developed. There are a number of 
actions  to  prevent  sexually  transmitted  infections  by 
means  of  early  diagnosis,  treatments  for  drug  abuse 
and greater access to AIDS treatments. 
We  also  seek  to  increase  prevention  through 

continuous  public  awareness  campaigns  on 
the 
feminization of the HIV/AIDS epidemic, as well as on 
the  provision  of  antiretroviral  treatment  for  those  in 
need; these are mainly aimed at the youngest and most 
vulnerable sectors of the population. 

Concerning  other  diseases,  Uruguay  has  seen  no 
cases  of  diphtheria,  yellow  fever,  polio,  neonatal 
tetanus  or  autochthonous  malaria.  The  data  show  a 
sustained  decrease  in  cases  of  echinococcosis  and  a 
reduction  in  tuberculosis.  This  has  been  the  result  of 
the  national 
tuberculosis  control  programme  and 
vaccination campaigns, in particular for hepatitis A and 
B  and  pneumococcal  diseases.  In  addition  to  those 
diseases, Uruguay is engaged in a major follow-up and 
prevention effort for non-transmittable diseases such as 
cancer,  diabetes,  cardiovascular  disease  and  chronic 
lung and kidney disease, because of their considerable 
prevalence among the Uruguayan population. 
Environmental  sustainability  is  essential  in  the 

design  of  for  long-term  development  and  growth 
strategies.  Our  country  faces  serious  challenges  in 
terms  of  innovation  and  production  of  renewable 
energy.  For  this  reason,  international  cooperation  and 
technology  transfer  are  particularly  important.  Here, 
we  would  like  to  highlight  the  increase  in  industrial 
energy  consumption  and  the  decrease  in  residential 
energy use. These significant and positive data mean a 
more  efficient  use  of  energy.  It 
is  also  worth 
mentioning  Government  efforts  to  improve  sanitation 
services and to extend their coverage to all parts of the 
country. 
like 
to  stress 
trade, 
technology 
International 
Finally,  Uruguay  would 

the 
importance  of  reaffirming  the  global  partnership  for 
development. The attainment of Goal 8 is essential for 
achieving  the  other  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
since  the  commitment  to  development  must  be  a 
collective one. 

transfer, 
affordable access to medicine and an enduring solution 
to the problems of external debt are some of the areas 
that  must  be  addressed  in  order  to  achieve  the  goals 
that have been set. Efforts made at all levels are crucial 
to achieve development. We also believe it is necessary 
to  strengthen  and  establish  millennium  goals  in  the 
areas  of  culture  and  science.  Such  new  goals  in  the 
cultural  sphere  would  enormously  advance  social 
integration,  and  scientific  goals  would  be  of  great 
importance,  as  science  is  the  only  path  to  sustainable 
development in both the short and long terms. 
The Acting Chair: The Assembly will now hear 

an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sali  Berisha,  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Albania. 
Mr. Berisha (Albania): It is a special pleasure for 

me to address this audience today and to present to the 
General Assembly the recent developments in Albania, 
along with our challenges and achievements in terms of 
reaching the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 

But  before  I  do  that,  I  would  like  to  extend 
cordial  greetings  to  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss,  along  with  my 
heartfelt congratulations on his election as President of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session. Special 
thanks  go  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  the 
excellent  organization  of 
this  General  Assembly 
session. 

As I was standing in this Hall today and watching 
this meeting unfold, suddenly memories of the General 
Assembly  in  September  1992  came  to  mind. As  then-
President of my country, I represented Albania: at that 
time, one of the poorest countries on the planet, with a 
per capita annual income of only $204 dollars, a totally 
failed economy and a level of unemployment as high as 
80 per cent. Albania was a country where chronic and 
massive  starvation  were  still  present,  where 
life 
expectancy  at  birth  was  getting  shorter  with  passing 
time and where child and maternal mortality remained 
among the highest in the world. It was a country that, 
in  the  previous  45  years,  had  built  3.5  times  more 
bunkers  than  residential  apartments  for  its  citizens. 
That was Albania 18 years ago. 
28 

10-54521 
revised 
the 
to 
and  upgraded 
As  scholars  have  written, 



the  unimaginable 
happens  once  in  20  years.  But  in  my  country,  the 
unimaginable happened in less than 20 years. Today in 
this  Hall,  I  am  addressing  this  audience  as  the  Prime 
Minister  of  a  country  that  in  this  short  period  of  time 
has  increased  its  per  capita  income  tens  of  times  and 
now  belongs  to  the  group  of  countries  with  middle  to 
upper income levels. Albania was once the most hyper-
collectivized country on Earth; now, more than 80 per 
cent  of  its  gross  domestic  product  is  generated  by  the 
private  sector.  During  the  past  10  years,  Albania  has 
reduced  poverty  from  25  per  cent  to  12  per  cent,  and 
extreme poverty from 4.2 per cent to 1.3 per cent. 

Five  years  ago,  taking  into  consideration  its 
priority  project  of  European  Union  (EU)  integration, 
Albania 
its  Millennium 
Development  Goals  in  order  to  realign  them  with  the 
requirements  of  the  EU  integration  objectives. To  that 
end, in the past four years alone, Albania has increased 
budgetary spending for health care by 40 per cent, for 
education  by  60  per  cent  and  for  social  assistance  by 
80 per cent. We take great pleasure in noting that over 
90  per  cent  of  pupils  who  completed  the  obligatory 
nine-year 
have 
continued  their  education  by  enrolling  in  high  school, 
and  that  70  per  cent  of  the  youngsters  who  graduated 
from 
the  country’s 
universities.  The  number  of  university  students  has 
tripled,  and  the  Internet  is  accessible  in  every  school 
throughout the country. 

Life expectancy in Albania has increased to 77.96 
years,  and  maternal  mortality  is  several  times  lower 
than  it  is  in  some  of  the  most  developed  countries. 
Child  mortality  has  also  shown  a  drastic  decrease; 
nevertheless, it is still not at the level it should be. The 
level of child immunization in Albania has been among 
the highest in the world. 

There  has  been  tremendous  progress  in  the  area 
of  environmental  protection.  Ninety-eight  per  cent  of 
electricity  and  energy  in  my  country  comes  from 
renewable  sources.  Despite  the  major  world  financial 
crisis,  our  country’s  economy  has  continued 
to 
maintain  positive  growth,  standing  at  3.5  per  cent  in 
2009.  Exports  have  grown  by  62  per  cent  this  year. 
Budgetary  revenues  are  13  per  cent  higher  than  they 
were last year, with overall economic growth expected 
to be 4 to 5 per cent. 
latter  were  admitted 
programme 
education 
primary 
A/65/PV.8
its 
Building 
the  country  and 

Albania  has  created  a  very  friendly  environment 
for business and investment. At the moment, we are the 
European country with the lowest fiscal burden. In just 
the  past  two  years,  my  country  has  signed  several 
billion euros in investments and concessions. Albania’s 
infrastructure  has  been  totally  transformed  —  for 
instance,  when  it  comes  to  our  road  network  and  our 
water  supply,  energy,  telecommunications  and  health 
care systems. My country is today a member of NATO 
and  is  making  solid  progress  in  the  process  of 
integration into the European Union. 

Prominent persons in the world’s global economy 
and  finances  have  labelled  Albania’s  development  as 
having made a quantum leap. But I remain fully aware 
that,  despite  all  those  achievements,  our  country  still 
has  a  long  and  difficult  road  ahead.  Thousands  of 
people  in  my  country  are  still  struggling  against 
unemployment,  which  stands  at  11  per  cent,  whereas 
others  face  poverty,  and  even  extreme  poverty,  and 
endure  the  pain  and  despair  and  the  tears  they  cause 
daily. 

infrastructure 
necessitates more capital investment. Albania’s path is 
in  no  way  a  beautifully  paved  highway.  That  is  why 
reaching, or even going beyond, the MDG targets is for 
my  country  a  secure  path  to  a  new  horizon  of 
development and EU integration. 

These achievements by Albanian citizens are due 
first  of  all  to  their  free  initiative. They  came  about  as 
the  result  of  their  hard  work  and  rivers  of  sweat,  for 
which I would like to take this opportunity to pay my 
most  heartfelt  tribute.  But  they  were  also  made 
possible  due  to  the  deep  and  comprehensive  reforms 
carried  out  in  my  country  during  recent  years  in  the 
areas  of  the  economy,  health,  education  and  social 
policy  in  general.  In  particular,  they  were  due  to  our 
uncompromising  fight  against  corruption  and  due  to 
the reforms linked with that fight. 

Anti-corruption  reforms  are  crucial  to  ensuring 
the success and results of all other reforms. For me, the 
fundamental  condition  for  reaching  or  going  beyond 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
is  first  and 
foremost  a  permanent  fight  against  corruption.  I 
believe that corruption is today the worst enemy of free 
people  and 
the 
uncompromising  fight  against  corruption  has  allowed 
us  to  double  public  revenue  in  less  than  five  years. 
Anti-corruption  reforms  have  helped  economic  and 
In  my  country, 
free  societies. 
10-54521 

29 

the 
those  countries, 
their  Governments  and 
A/65/PV.8 

other  reforms  to  transform  Albania  into  a  secure 
country  in  Europe  and  into  one  of  the  most  attractive 
places for foreign investors. I invite business people to 
seriously consider visiting my country and investing in 
Albania. 

I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  my  deep 
appreciation  to  the  United  Nations  for  its  continuous 
efforts  against  corruption,  and  in  particular  for  the 
Convention  against  Corruption  and 
recent 
establishment  of  the  Anti-Corruption  Academy  in 
Vienna. 

On their way to building a democratic system and 
a  free  market  economy,  Albania  and  its  people  have 
had  extraordinary  help  and  solidarity  from  many 
friendly  countries  around  the  world.  I  would  like  to 
take this opportunity to express my deepest gratitude to 
all 
their 
taxpayers, for the great generosity they  showed to my 
nation as it strived to emerge from the worst isolation 
that  the  world  has  known.  From  the  bottom  of  my 
heart, I would also like to thank the United Nations and 
its  agencies,  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions  and  the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme  for  all  the 
invaluable help they have provided Albania throughout 
this period. 

Special  thanks  go  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-
moon  and  his  team  for  selecting  my  country  to  be  a 
pilot  country  in  the  “delivering  as  one”  project.  I 
assure  the  Assembly  that  our  selection  has  brought 
efficient  cooperation  between  my  country  and  United 
Nations agencies to the highest level, producing much 
better  implementation  of  dozens  of  joint  projects  in 
numerous  fields,  which  has  helped  my  country  to 
achieve the Millennium Goals and move ahead towards 
EU integration. 
The  Acting  Chair:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Paul  Antoine  Bohoun  Bouabré, 
Minister  of  Planning  and  Development  of  Côte 
d’Ivoire. 
Mr.  Bohoun  Bouabré  (Côte  d’Ivoire)  (spoke  in 

French):  It  is  a  privilege  and  great  honour  for  me  to 
address the Assembly on behalf of Côte d’Ivoire and of 
President Laurent Gbagbo. 

The  report  before  the  Assembly  (A/64/665)  is 
commendable,  as  it  clearly  and  courageously  sets  out 
the  challenges  we  face  in  attaining  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  as  well  as  the  measures 
for  example,  Government  policies 
to be taken to address — and perhaps to solve — them, 
only  five  years  from  the  deadline  we  have  set.  On 
behalf  of  my  delegation,  I  should  like  to  convey  my 
sincere  congratulations  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-
moon  for  the  work  that  has  been  accomplished  and 
especially  for  the  initiative  to  hold  this  High-level 
Meeting. 

As  we  take  stock  10  years  on,  we  must  concede 
that  there  is  still  a  long  way  to  go  for  the  majority  of 
African countries, and that the chances of attaining all 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  by  the  2015 
deadline  are  slim.  In  spite  of  a  domestic  situation 
characterized  by  a  crisis  unprecedented  in  our  short 
history,  Côte  d’Ivoire  has  steadfastly  committed  to 
implementing  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
While  the  results  of  Government  activities  do  not,  of 
course,  entirely  reflect  the  efforts  that  have  been 
deployed,  encouraging  advances  have  been  made 
thanks  to  the  various  programmes  under  way.  In 
education, 
to 
strengthen  human  resources  on  the  one  hand  and  to 
promote  primary  education  on  the  other  have  allowed 
us to attain a net enrolment rate of 56 per cent over the 
period from 2002 to 2008. 

The goal of gender equality is one that, without a 
doubt, we have a real chance of attaining by the 2015 
deadline.  In  fact,  the  present  ratio  of  8  girls  for  every 
10  boys  represents  real  progress  due  to  our  primary 
education  gender  policy.  The  empowerment  and 
the 
promotion  of  women  remains  a  priority  for 
Government.  We  give  pride  of  place 
to 
the 
independence,  participation  and  empowerment  of 
women at all levels of national life and in the broadest 
range of areas and activities. 

Significant  progress  has  also  been  seen  in  the 
health sector, but it is still not enough for us to expect 
attainment of the goal of reducing under-five mortality. 
In  order  to  improve  the  chances  for  success  in  this 
area,  Côte  d’Ivoire  has  decided 
to  prioritize 
comprehensive  vaccination  campaigns,  to  improve 
epidemiological  monitoring 
strengthen 
integrated care for childhood and infant diseases. 

With regard to HIV/AIDS, the commitment of the 
President of the Republic  has led to the establishment 
of a ministry specifically dedicated to the fight against 
the  pandemic.  Carrying  out  public 
awareness 
campaigns and providing care for sufferers, as well as 
strengthening  coordination,  follow-up  and  assessment, 
and 
to 
30 

10-54521 
and 
in 
if 
that, 
have 
increases 
announced 
The  HIV/AIDS,  malaria 


have  all  yielded  notable  results.  We  note  that  the 
overall  progression  of  the  pandemic  has  been  curbed, 
as prevalence has fallen significantly from 6.9 per cent 
in 2000 to 3.7 per cent in 2008. 

tuberculosis 
pandemics continue to pose great  challenges to Africa 
in  general  and  to  Côte  d’Ivoire  in  particular.  We  all 
agree that these pandemics are not only a public health 
problem;  they  also  seriously  constrain  economic  and 
social  development  across  the  continent.  Therefore, 
sustained  efforts  are  needed  to  improve  the  quality  of 
care  and  to  improve  treatment  outcomes,  along  with 
continuing public awareness campaigns.  

We take this opportunity to support the plea for a 
significant increase in the resources of the Global Fund 
to  Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria.  In  this 
regard,  I  should  like  to  welcome  the  commitments 
made  by  the  succession  of  donors  who,  from  this 
rostrum, 
their 
contributions.  I  remain  convinced 
these 
promises  are  kept,  they  will  greatly  contribute  to  the 
success  of  the  fight  against  these  pandemics  in  the 
beneficiary countries. 

In  the  decade  since  the  MDGs  were  adopted, 
poverty  has  not  decreased  in  Côte  d’Ivoire;  quite  the 
contrary.  Even  though  the  trend  has  been  slightly 
reversed over the past two years, thanks in particular to 
the  renewed  momentum  of  economic  growth,  the 
poverty index is not what we had hoped. Having been 
38.4 per cent in 2002, the index was determined to be 
48.9  per  cent  in  2008.  That  having  been  said,  despite 
current  financial  problems  and  the  constraints  of 
managing 
is 
continuing  in  its  efforts  to  improve  the  quality  of  life 
of the people by connecting rural areas to the national 
electricity  grid  and  by  implementing  drinking  water 
provision programmes. 

In the area of environmental preservation, efforts 
are being carried out to halt deforestation and to create 
conservation  parks  and  nature  reserves.  We  welcome 
the  presence  of  the  German  Agency  for  Technical 
Cooperation,  which  manages  the  Taï  National  Park  in 
south-western Côte d’Ivoire. 

To  conclude,  I  should  like  to  underscore  the 
importance  of  the  ongoing  economic  reform  in  our 
country for implementing the MDGs and especially for 
ensuring  that  the  results  are  long-lasting.  The  success 
of  reforms  and  the  immediate  prospects  for  reducing 
recurring  crises, 
the  Government 
A/65/PV.8
and 
community 
international 
the  presidential  elections 
the  debt  burden,  which  is  56  per  cent  of  our  gross 
domestic  product,  under  the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor 
Countries  Debt  Initiative  will  enable  the  Government 
to  increase  the  resources  available  for  basic  social 
services and to step up attainment of the MDGs. 

Five years away from the 2015 deadline, it would 
not be very realistic to wager that all of the MDGs will 
be met. However, domestic efforts must continue, and 
we  must  focus  on  the  challenges  of  the  MDGs,  post-
crisis  reconstruction,  robust  recovery  of  economic 
growth  and  sustainable  development.  In  this  context, 
Côte d’Ivoire knows that it can count on the support of 
the 
strengthened 
partnerships  with  donor  countries  to  keep  up  the 
momentum  and  give  new  hope  to  our  people.  In  this 
regard, 
to  be  held  on 
31 October 2010 hold great promise for Côte d’Ivoire. 
The  Acting  Chair:  The  General  Assembly  will 

now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Winston 
Baldwin  Spencer,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Antigua and Barbuda. 
Mr.  Spencer  (Antigua  and  Barbuda):  Ten  years 

ago,  over  100  heads  of  State  or  Government  gathered 
here  in  this  grand  Hall  to  adopt  the  Millennium 
Declaration (resolution 55/2), which was described as a 
milestone  in  international  cooperation. With  a  15-year 
time  span  for  its  implementation,  the  Declaration  was 
widely  expected  to  inspire  development  and  directly 
improve  the  lives  of  hundreds  of  millions  of  people. 
These  are  people  who  are  struggling  to  eke  out  the 
most  basic  living  and  who  are  suffering  the  effects  of 
poverty, gender inequities, ill health and environmental 
degradation. 

Ten  years  have  passed  and  we  heads  of  State  or 
Government  —  more  than  100  of  us  —  are  gathered 
here  again 
the 
obstacles and gaps and agree on concrete strategies and 
actions  to  meet  the  very  same  Goals  and  targets  most 
of  us  agreed  to  in  2000. Ten  years  have  gone  by,  and 
what  do  we,  as  a  global  community,  have  to  show  in 
terms  of  concrete  results?  No  matter  from  what 
perspective  one  looks  at  it,  something  seems  terribly 
amiss. 

There  are  countless  voiceless  others  not  in  this 
Hall  who  are  also  wondering  and  asking  what  has 
happened  to  our  global  commitment  to  achieve  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). They want to 
know  why  our  global  partnerships  for  development 
to  review  progress,  assess 
today 
10-54521 

31 
and 
in  maternal 
A/65/PV.8 

have  not  delivered  on  their  stated  promises. With  less 
than  five  years  to  go  before  2015,  why  have  the 
commitments  related  to  the  most  important  global 
Declaration  made  to  the  world’s  most  vulnerable 
people not been fulfilled? Could it be that the globally 
agreed  expectation  that  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  would  spur  action  for  poverty  reduction, 
reductions 
child  mortality, 
improvements 
in  education,  gender  equality  and 
environmental  sustainability  remains  just  that  —  an 
expectation? 

Despite the overwhelming evidence that progress 
towards achieving the MDGs, when measured in terms 
of  concrete  milestones,  is  fragmentary,  I  am  not 
without  hope  that  we  as  a  community  can  deliver  on 
these  commitments.  Let  me  therefore  be  very  clear.  I 
am  not  here  to  pronounce  the  MDGs  dead  or  to  bury 
them. Rather, I remain convinced that they can still be 
revived  and  achieved  with  a  massive  infusion  of 
focused efforts and resources.  

If there is one fact that we can all agree on, it is 
that  something  dramatic  needs  to  be  done,  and  done 
urgently,  if  the  globally  agreed  MDGs  are  to  be  met. 
Ten years on, the inescapable truth that confronts us all 
is  that  the  MDGs  are  on  critical  life  support,  and  the 
international  community  needs  to  collectively  step  up 
the  pace  of  action  to  achieve  them.  If  we  do  not  do 
that,  the  MDGs  could  remain  forever  abandoned  and 
lost  in  that  graveyard  of  lost  and  failed  commitments. 
If,  as  many  speakers  before  me  have  said,  the  MDGs 
are of critical importance to mankind, then it behooves 
us  all  to  ensure  that  they  do  not  simply  wither  on  the 
proverbial vine and die an ignoble death. 

I  believe  that  the  Goals  represent  human  needs 
and  basic  rights  that  every  individual  on  this  planet 
should be able to enjoy. These needs and rights include 
freedom  from  extreme  poverty  and  hunger,  quality 
education, particularly for girls, productive and decent 
employment,  good  health  and  shelter,  the  right  of 
women to give birth without risking their lives, and the 
right to an environment that is sustainable. 

With  five  years  to  go,  we  are  at  a  critical 
juncture. We are at a point where we can look back at 
what went wrong and take corrective action. We know 
that  developing  countries,  such  as  my  own  nation  of 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  were  told  repeatedly  that  the 
MDGs  were 
owned 
development strategies, policies and programmes were 
achievable 
nationally 
if 

is 
in 
that 
the  simple  fact 
the  great  vision  embodied 
supported  by  international  development  partners.  We 
have  developed  the  national  strategies,  policies  and 
programmes.  Sadly,  the  support  of  our  international 
development  partners  has  either  been  slow  in  coming 
or has not come at all.  

We  know  that  the  MDGs  were  intended  to 
improve  the  lives  of  the  poor,  but  such  improvements 
have been painfully slow and any miniscule gains have 
been  eroded  by  the  climate  change,  food  security  and 
global  economic  crises.  What  makes  this  particularly 
heartbreaking 
the  world 
possesses  the  resources  and  knowledge  to  ensure  that 
even  the  poorest  countries,  and  others  held  back  by 
disease,  geographic  isolation  or  civil  strife,  can  be 
empowered  to  achieve  the  MDGs.  Simply  put,  after 
10 years,  billions  of  people  are  looking  to  us  to  help 
them  realize 
the 
Millennium Declaration. The simple but stark question 
is:  Will  we,  as  a  global  community,  summon  the 
courage  to  take  the  actions  necessary  to  keep  that 
promise? 

As  we  look  ahead  to  2015,  critical  building 
blocks, particularly in the areas of trade and debt relief, 
which many in the developing world need if they are to 
achieve the MDGs, will have to be put into place. The 
Doha Round  of trade negotiations must  be completed. 
Progress  towards  reaching  the  targets  of  providing  all 
the  least  developed  countries  with  duty-free  market 
access  for  their  exports  has  to  be  accelerated.  And  a 
fair  number  of  the  middle-  and  upper  middle-income 
countries,  which  are  in  dire  need  of  substantial 
amounts of debt relief, need help to create more fiscal 
space for spending targeted towards the MDGs. 

I  believe  that  a  renewed  emphasis  on  trade  is  a 
critical  element  for  developing  countries  seeking  to 
rescue their battered economies and lift their people up 
out  of  poverty.  One  very  important  way  in  which  our 
partners  in  the  developed  countries  can  help  is  to 
adhere  to  their  international  obligations.  This  could 
make  a  significant  contribution  to  the  maintenance  of 
peace  and  security  and  towards  ensuring  that  all 
persons,  regardless  of  race,  nationality,  creed  or 
gender, continue to believe in the international system 
and recognize that this system is for the benefit of all. 

It  is  therefore  important  that  the  people  of  small 
developing  countries  be  given  good  reason  to  believe 
that  the  international  system  is  just  and  that  it  works 
for them just as it does for large, powerful, developed 
32 

10-54521 


nations.  That  is  why  one  situation  in  which  a  small 
Caribbean  nation  has  been  placed 
is  extremely 
unfortunate  and  must  be  remedied  as  quickly  as 
possible. 

My  small  developing  nation  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda  has  sought  to  ensure  that  the  trade  rules 
agreed to by a majority of the international community, 
including  the  United  States,  are  adhered  to.  In  that 
spirit,  after  extensive  consultations  and  negotiations, 
we  brought  a  matter  against 
the  United  States 
concerning  online  gaming  before  the  World  Trade 
Organization Dispute Settlement Body. Despite having 
been successful repeatedly at that level, we have yet to 
benefit.  I  therefore  call  on  the  United  States  to  work 
with us to quickly resolve the situation and to arrive at 
a settlement that is fair and just to both sides. 

The  food  crisis  and  the  global  financial  crisis 
have  exacerbated  the  external  financing  needs  of 
countries  like  ours  and  have  further  constrained  our 
capacity to service growing debts. Many countries now 
have debt-servicing obligations that are comparable in 
size  to  their  gross  national  product  or,  in  some  cases, 
that dwarf the value of their total output. For them, my 
own country included, the need for debt relief is a top 
priority. For many of those countries, the debt distress 
has been caused by global crises not of their making. 

This  year  alone  an  additional  64  million  people 
will  fall  into  extreme  poverty.  The  number  of  hungry 
people has risen above 1 billion for the first time ever. 
We therefore need to build a bridge between available 
food  supplies  and  people  who  are  hungry.  The  bridge 
of safety nets is not something we can abandon. That is 
why in many developing countries, including my own, 
subsidized  free  school  meals,  nutrition  support  for 
mothers  and  young  children  and  health,  job  training 
and community development programmes must remain 
national  priorities.  Those  programmes  are  not  only  to 
combat  starvation  and  malnutrition;  they  also  have 
multiplier  effects  in  supporting  health,  education  and 
economic development. 

the  school  meals 
programme has proven to be one of the most powerful 
food-based safety nets ever implemented. Those meals 
are  often  the  only  assured  source  of  food  for  the 
children  of  disadvantaged  households.  And  feeding 
programmes  deliver  much  more  by  increasing  school 
attendance, 
educational 
achievement. 
In  Antigua  and  Barbuda, 
equality 
gender 
and 
A/65/PV.8
to 
to  recommit 
international  community 

I  am  from  a  region  where  natural  disasters  such 
as  hurricanes  and  earthquakes  are  commonplace. 
Disaster  preparedness  through  building  resilience  and 
promoting adaptation and risk reduction is therefore an 
urgent  priority.  We  are  constantly  seeking  ways  and 
means to develop and deploy risk management tools to 
mitigate  the  negative  effects  of  climate  change  and 
other  natural  disasters.  Unlike  our  developed-country 
partners,  we  cannot  avail  ourselves  of  international 
insurance,  capital  markets  or  government  budgets  that 
act  as  contingency  funds  to  minimize  losses  from 
natural disasters. 

A mere five years remain until the target date for 
the Millennium Development Goals. I therefore call on 
the 
the 
accelerated implementation of the MDGs. 

The range of actions that must be taken includes 
supporting  country-led  development  and  effective 
governance; fostering inclusive and pro-poor economic 
growth,  including  access  to  modern  energy  services; 
increasing  public  investments  in  education,  health, 
water, sanitation and infrastructure; scaling up targeted 
interventions, 
including 
and 
employment  programmes; 
in  expanded 
opportunities for women and girls and advancing their 
economic, legal and political empowerment; enhancing 
low-carbon 
access 
development; 
resource 
mobilization  to  finance  the  MDGs;  and  ensuring  that 
the global partnership creates an enabling environment 
for  the  MDGs,  particularly  by  delivering  on  official 
development assistance commitments. 

I  want  to  thank  the Assembly  for  its  attention.  I 
trust that we are all sufficiently motivated to renew our 
commitment  to  making  the  world  outside  this  Hall  a 
better place by achieving the noble yet practical Goals 
we have set in this regard. 
The  Acting  Chair:  I  must  make  a  request.  We 

have very little time left. At 3 p.m., another meeting is 
being  convened  here  in  which  the  President  of  the 
United States and many other senior people will speak. 
In view of the fact that there are still many speakers on 
the list, I must request that the Assembly conclude this 
meeting.  I  ask  that  speakers  restrict  their  speeches  to 
five  minutes.  If  they  do  not,  I  will  have  to  start 
enforcing the time limit. We will not finish otherwise.  
social 
investing 
accelerating 
to 
energy 
protection 
and 
promoting 
domestic 
10-54521 

33 

A/65/PV.8 


I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs and Cooperation of the Republic of the Congo, 
Mr. Basile Ikouebe. 
Mr.  Ikouebe  (Congo)  (spoke  in  French):  Five 

years  from  the  deadline  for  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs), the opportunity afforded 
by this meeting is clear: we have to evaluate what we 
have  done  during  the  last  10  years  and  to  trace  the 
broad  lines  of  what  remains  to  be  done  to  accelerate 
implementation.  
The  draft  resolution  (A/65/L.1)  submitted  for 

adoption  at  the  end  of  our  work  clearly  indicates  the 
goal  envisaged:  to  keep  the  promises  made  to  our 
people, because the results mixed. Undeniable progress 
has  been  made  and  successes  achieved,  but  in  an 
uneven  way.  Many  efforts  are  still  required  to  make 
success universal at the right time.  

We  have  taken  on  commitments  at  the  national, 
subregional, regional and international levels. Many of 
our countries have made great sacrifices to move in the 
right  direction.  They  have  had  to  overcome  various 
obstacles: lack of resources, weak national economies, 
natural  disasters,  wars,  economic  and  financial  crises, 
and so on. However, none of those obstacles should be 
used  as  an  excuse  or  as  a  pretext  for  inaction.  On  the 
contrary, they should galvanize our energies.  
It is time to call on our partners of the North, to 

invite  them  to  keep  their  promises,  particularly  in 
terms  of  official  development  assistance,  investments 
and  the  trade  competitiveness  necessary  for  sustained 
economic  growth,  without  which  the  MDGs  will  be 
illusory for many of us. 

When  the  MDGs  were  adopted  10  years  ago, 
Congo  was  just  emerging  from  a  long  period  of  civil 
war  that  destroyed  the  socio-economic  fabric  and 
infrastructures  like  roads,  bridges,  railroads,  schools 
and  clinics.  We  therefore  had  to  rebuild  everything, 
often  at  our  own  expense.  Our  post-conflict 
development 
and 
implemented. After  long  years  of  negotiation  with  the 
International  Monetary  Fund  and  the  World  Bank,  we 
are  now  just  at  the  completion  point  of  the  Heavily 
Indebted  Poor  Countries  Initiative.  We  would  like  to 
thank all of our partners who have supported us in this 
long effort.  

With  the  cancelling  of  most  of  our  foreign  debt, 
today we can accelerate the pace of implementing our 
programme  was 
adopted 
programme  for 
the  poorest  citizens,  which  was 
launched  a  number  of  years  ago.  That  is  why  we 
remain  aware  of  our  ability  to  achieve  in  five  years  a 
reasonable performance rate for the MDGs. 

On  the  whole,  Congo,  following  the  example  of 
other African countries, has made remarkable progress 
in  achieving  the  MDGs,  especially  in  the  areas  of 
universal  primary  education,  fighting  HIV/AIDS  and 
promoting sustainable development, even as we remain 
aware of the scope of the challenges that still must be 
met.  However,  more  efforts  are  needed  to  combat 
extreme  poverty  and  hunger,  and  maternal,  infant  and 
child mortality, and to promote gender equality and the 
empowerment of women.  

To  meet  those  challenges,  the  Government  is 
trying to bring the proportion of the population below 
the poverty level from 50.7 per cent to 35 per cent by 
2015.  The  setting  up  of  the  national  food  security 
programme  2008-2012  and  of  the  support  fund  for 
developing  agriculture  is  part  of  this  effort  to  reduce 
the proportion of the population that is suffering from 
hunger. In addition, Congo has invested in diversifying 
its  non-petroleum  sector  and  is  implementing  support 
programmes  for  income-generating  activities  for  the 
most  vulnerable  people. 
the  business 
environment  is  also  one  of  the  priority  areas  in  our 
efforts  to  promote  the  private  sector  and  thereby  to 
expand the national economy’s productive capacity. 
On  the  occasion  of  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of 

independence,  President  Denis  Sassou 
Congo’s 
Nguesso 
has 
at 
strengthening 
ongoing 
programmes.  In  particular,  that  entails  raising  low 
incomes  by  increasing  the  minimum  wage  by  25  per 
cent  and  adopting  more  favourable  salary  scales  for 
State employees, beginning in 2011. In order to bridge 
the gaps in the education system, primary education for 
all  children  will  be  provided  and  the  primary  school 
enrolment rate, which still stood at 72 per cent in 2008, 
will  be  raised.  Free  access  to  textbooks  and  primary 
education will henceforth be provided. 

Above and beyond the basic issue of rights, we in 
Congo  consider  gender  equality  a  prerequisite  to 
sustainable  development.  Our  national  gender  policy 
and  action  plan  will  therefore  be  supplemented  by  a 
law  on  women’s  representation  in  decision-making 
forums.  The  law,  whose  goal  is  to  enshrine  gender 
parity,  will  contribute  to  lifting  social  and  cultural 
announced  measures 
and 
Improving 
speeding 
aimed 
up 
all 
34 

10-54521 
that  so 
intended 
involved 
achieving 
  hampered 
to  preserve 
treatment  centre 


impediments 
far  have 
achievement of full gender equality. 

Maternal  and  child  health  is  also  the  object  of 
specific  social  measures.  Those  include  free  malaria 
treatment  for  pregnant women and  for  children up the 
age  of  15,  the  ongoing  construction  of  a  large 
comprehensive 
for  women  and 
children,  free  caesarean  care  and  fistula  surgery  and 
other major pregnancy and delivery interventions. The 
goal of those measures is to ensure that women giving 
birth  to  new  life  do  not  die  on  the  occasion  of  such  a 
momentous  event.  Lastly,  we  also  provide  free 
HIV/AIDS  treatment,  especially  as  part  of  preventing 
mother-to-child transmission. 

For  quite  some  time  Congo  has  clearly  realized 
the 
stakes 
sustainable 
development.  We  therefore  began  very  early  on  to 
implement  policies 
and 
sustainably manage the forest ecosystems of the Congo 
River  Basin.  As  everyone  understands,  this  is  a 
significant  contribution  to  the  global  fight  against 
climate change.  
The  Congolese  Government  is  steadfast  in  its 

commitment  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. For President Denis Sassou Nguesso, combating 
poverty  is  the  cornerstone  to  securing  human  dignity 
and  the  country’s  independence.  Nevertheless,  the 
success  of  our  efforts  will  depend  in  large  part  on 
achieving 
and 
developing  countries  on  mutual  responsibility,  and  on 
future  innovative  measures  that  might  be  identified, 
especially in the area of development assistance. 

As  we  all  hope,  therefore,  this  summit  should 
serve  to  reiterate  our  commitments  to  the  MDGs  and 
lead  our  Governments  to  intensify  their  efforts  and 
consolidate  a  more  dynamic  partnership  to  overcome 
hurdles  and  speed  up  progress  in  achieving  the  Goals 
for a more just world of solidarity. The outcome of our 
work  here  must  be  a  commitment  to  keeping  our 
promises. 
The Acting  Chair:  I  would  like  to  reiterate  that 

time is running out. I ask speakers to be considerate of 
those who follow them. 

I  now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr. 
Mamadou  Tangara,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs, 
International Cooperation and Gambians Abroad of the 
Gambia.  
developed 
consensus 




in 
between 
A/65/PV.8
the 
Mr.  Tangara  (Gambia):  It  is  indeed  a  great 

privilege for me to stand here to deliver the message of 
His  Excellency  Al  Hadji  Yahya  A.J.J.  Jammeh, 
President of the Republic of the Gambia.  

a 
for 
framework 
review  of 

“It  is  10  years  since  the  holding  of  the 
Millennium  Summit,  in  September  2000,  when 
we, who constitute the leadership of the Member 
States  of  this  body,  adopted  the  Millennium 
Declaration  (resolution  55/2).  That  Declaration 
provides 
international 
collaboration  in  meeting  goals  and  targets  to 
address  poverty  and  environmental  challenges, 
while  putting  all  countries  on  the  path  towards 
lasting socio-economic growth and development. 
It  was  most  important  for  a  twenty-first  century 
world  where  millions  of  people  have  their  lives 
and  true  dignity  threatened  by  poverty,  hunger 
and  disease  and  die  of  the  hopelessness,  despair 
and destitution that come with those threats.  
“Ten years on, we are gathered here again to 

undertake  a  comprehensive 
the 
progress  made  and,  with  five  years  to  go  to  the 
target  date  of  2015,  to  map  out  a  course  for 
accelerated  action  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). 

“It  is  heartening  that,  despite  their  general 
lack  of  resources,  many  of  the  world’s  poorest 
countries  have  made  some  progress,  signifying 
the  importance  that  we  in  that  group  of  nations 
attach,  and  will  continue  to  attach,  to  the  MDGs 
and their attainment in record time. However, our 
ability  to  register  more  progress  was  openly 
challenged by the global surge in food prices and 
the 
attendant 
consequences  that  those  have  on  mobilizing 
resources and enhancing general resource flows. 

“I  am  happy  to  inform  the  Assembly  that 
since the Summit, the Government of the Gambia 
has not relented in considering poverty reduction 
and  enhanced  growth  as  the  cornerstone  of  our 
national development priorities. Over that period, 
despite  resource  gaps,  we  have  mobilized  a 
significant  level  of  partnership  with  genuine 
friends of the Gambia, both bilaterally and at the 
multilateral  level,  in  the  strides  taken  so  far  in 
that direction.  

planning  capacities  with 
“Those  include  strengthening  our  national 
the  creation  of  a 
crisis,  with 
financial 
the 
10-54521 

35 
A/65/PV.8 


and 
and 
earnings 
planning  commission  in  December  2006  and  the 
recent  transformation  of  that  commission  into  a 
ministry  in  charge  of  directing  national  planning 
efforts, using the MDG-based Poverty Reduction 
Strategy  Paper  for  the  period  2007  to  2011, 
including the Vision 2020 development blueprint, 
as the basis. I would like to take this opportunity 
to  applaud  the  support  of  all  our  development 
partners  in  this  drive,  especially  that  of  United 
Nations agencies. 

“With  70  per  cent  of  my  country’s 
population dependant upon agriculture — a sector 
where  the  possibilities  for  large-scale  earnings 
are  generally  lower  than  in  other  sectors  of  the 
economy  —  my  Government  will  continue  to 
promote  investments  that  enhance  agricultural 
productivity 
create 
opportunities  for  enhanced  increases  in  living 
standards for the poor.  
“I  should  like  to  share  with  the  Assembly 

that  we  have 
launched  a  back-to-the-land 
operation known as the Feed Yourself campaign. 
That  effort 
is  yielding  benefits  for  us,  as 
evidenced 
food 
production,  especially  cereals,  registered  during 
the past season. It is also helping to make us one 
of the few countries of the world that is on track 
to meeting the target set in Goal 1 of halving the 
proportion  of  people  who  suffer  from  hunger. 
Similar  advances  have  been  made  and  will 
continue  to  be  made  with  regards  to  all  the 
MDGs. 

“With regard to Goal 2, I wish to share the 
following  achievements.  We  have  a  77  per  cent 
net  enrollment  ratio  in  primary  education,  with 
62.9  per  cent  of  people  who  start  in  grade  one 
making it to the last grade of primary education. 
With  regard  to  gender  parity,  there  are  almost 
more girls than boys. That was made possible by 
the  deliberate  creation  of  a  girls’  education  trust 
fund  and  the  pioneering  of  the  highly  successful 
President’s  Empowerment  of  Girls  Education 
Project,  which  is  promoting  broader  enrolment 
and retention of girls in school.  
“The  Gambia continues to  be committed to 

and 
ideals  of  gender 
the 
the 
equality 
empowerment  of  women.  That 
is  amply 
manifested  in  our  commitment  to  international 
the  modest 
increase 
in 
in 








36 

due 
deaths 
respect 
to  malaria 
of  All  Forms 
the  Elimination 
includes  strategies 
obligations, including, notably, in the Convention 
on 
of 
Discrimination  against  Women  and  the  Protocol 
to  the African  Charter  on  the  Rights  of  Women. 
Earlier  this  year,  I  signed  into  law  the  Women’s 
Act 2010. Our successful hosting of the regional 
Beijing Plus 15 Conference in November of 2009 
further  demonstrates  our 
for  and 
commitment to the empowerment of women.  

“The Gambia has made significant progress 
over  the  years  in  reducing  infant  and  under-five 
mortality  and  is  on  track  to  meeting Targets  4.A 
and 5.A of Goals 4 and 5. However, we continue 
to  grapple  with  the  problems  of  combating 
preventable 
and 
tuberculosis  and  of  putting  in  place  a  robust 
environmental  sanitation  system  and  a  modern, 
state-of-the-art drainage infrastructure.  

“With  respect  to  the  spread  of  HIV  and 
AIDs,  our  approach 
for 
enhanced  access  to  treatment  using  a  well-
integrated national HIV/AIDS policy with pillars 
addressing  home-based  care,  creating  support 
groups, voluntary counseling and testing services, 
preventing  mother-to-child 
transmission  and 
providing antiretroviral therapy.  

“The Gambia is a beneficiary of the Global 
Environment Facility, and, in response to growing 
environmental  challenges,  the  Government  has 
the 
formulated 
adopted 
Gambia 
Environmental  Action  Plan 
(GEAP)  as  a 
framework 
enhancing 
environmental 
management.  To  complement  the  GEAP,  other 
cross-cutting  policies  and  strategies  dealing  with 
environmental issues have been developed in the 
Gambia.  

“With  support  from  the  United  Nations 
Industrial Development Organization, the Gambia 
is  exploring 
the  possibility  of  promoting 
renewable energy to reduce the impact of carbon 
the  environment  and 
dioxide  emissions  on 
sector 
encouraging  a  deeper  private-public 
partnership. 
currently 
implementing  the  first  phase  of  a  participatory 
slum  upgrading  programme,  funded  by 
the 
European  Commission,  in  response  to  the  needs 
of urban slum dwellers, a Target of Goal 7.  
The  Gambia 
and 
for 
is 
10-54521 







it  favourably 

“With  regard  to  the  global  partnership  for 
development,  the  Gambia  received  external  debt 
relief  upon  reaching  the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor 
Countries Initiative decision point in 2007. It was 
approved  for  a  budget  support  programme  with 
the  World  Bank  and  the  African  Development 
Bank  in  2009,  as  well  as  for  a  budget  support 
programme  from  the  European  Union,  foreign 
direct  investment  and  the  Global  Fund.  All  this 
places 
to  develop  a  stronger 
partnership and collaboration with the rest of the 
world, with a view to accelerated socio-economic 
growth  and  development.  I  recognize,  though, 
that the global financial meltdown has eroded the 
gains of debt relief and reduced funding from its 
traditional development sources.  

“Even though the Gambia is among the best 
performers  in Africa  insofar  as  progress  towards 
meeting some of the MDG Targets is  concerned, 
there  daunting  tasks  and  challenges  lie  ahead  in 
the  countdown  to  2015.  The  Gambia  intends  to 
respond  to  those  challenges  in  a  more  structured 
and  targeted  manner  through  a  programme  for 
accelerated growth and employment that will run 
from 2012 to 2014.  

“My  delegation’s  comment  on  the  draft 
outcome document (A/65/L.1) being tabled at this 
High-level Plenary Meeting on the MDGs is that 
the  document 
for 
accelerated action. However, we wish to add our 
voice to those of other Governments to urge that 
it  reflect  a  stronger  commitment  to  specific 
actions  set  out  in  the  document,  as  well  as 
realistic  timelines  and  requisite  financing  to 
deliver on those very important Goals.  

“It is high time that the wealthier countries 
provide  added  and  committed  assistance  to  less 
endowed  and  poverty-stricken  nations.  It  is  high 
time  to  prove  to  all  those  for  whom  the  MDGs 
must provide a true and realistic meaning to their 
life  that  we  meant  what  we  promised  them.  I 
therefore wish to urge that our discussion during 
this  Meeting  should  be  guided  and  directed 
towards  addressing  the  MDG  promise  that  come 
2015,  the  poor  are  able  to  celebrate  an  historic 
millennium victory.  

“I  wish  to  acknowledge  with  gratitude  the 
strong and consistent support that the Gambia has 
indeed  a  great 
is 
item 
A/65/PV.8


been  receiving  from  the  United  Nations  system 
agencies  towards  achieving  the  MDGs  and  from 
all  our  partners  —  from  non-governmental 
organizations,  civil  society  and 
faith-based 
organizations  to  friendly  countries,  including  the 
Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan,  which  has  our 
respect  and  recognition  for 
its  development 
experience with the global community. 

“I  wish  to  remark  that  while  there  are 
certainly are many challenges to achieving all of 
the  MDGs,  there  is  no  other  way  than  to 
recognize that the Goals represent a true hope for 
the  hundreds  of  millions  of  poor  and  largely 
marginalized  people  across  the  world  who  yearn 
for a better world than the one they live in.  

“Taiwan is an active player in international 
cooperation  and  development,  given  the  volume 
of assistance that it provides in support of public 
projects  and 
towards  social,  agriculture  and 
private  sector  development.  It  is  for  this  reason 
that  the  Gambia  wishes  to  reiterate  the  need  for 
the  United  Nations  to  find  ways  to  accept 
Taiwan’s  participation  so  that  the  MDG  Targets 
can be better achieved.”  
The  Acting  Chair:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Royal Highness Prince Mohamed Bolkiah, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs and Trade of Brunei Darussalam. 
Prince Mohamed Bolkiah (Brunei Darussalam): 

I  bring  the  best  wishes  of  His  Majesty  the  Sultan  and 
the  people  of  Brunei  Darussalam,  together  with  our 
warmest greeting to our fellow Members of the United 
Nations.  I  congratulate  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session  on  his  election  and 
wish  him  great  success  in  the  coming  year.  I  also 
express my appreciation to Mr. Treki for his work over 
the  past  year,  and  my  thanks  to  the  Secretary-General 
and the United Nations agencies for their help, advice 
and expertise. 
Like  every  country,  we  have  learned  several 

lessons in our work over the last 10 years, and I would 
briefly like to go through the main ones.  

First,  we  have  learned  how  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  can  bring  our  people 
together — our Governments, our business people, our 
professionals and our families and communities. So far, 
the  Goals  have  done  this  very  successfully.  We  are 
starting  to  feel  new  confidence  in  the  future,  and  I 
10-54521 

37 

is 
this 
Another 
lesson  has 
taught  us  a 
A/65/PV.8 

think we are less frightened by many challenges. As a 
result,  our  Government  has  strengthened  policy  and 
legislation, our public  and private sectors are working 
together  in  health  and  education,  and  all  ministries 
have  set  long-term  development  programmes.  When 
we  add  all 
to  our  comprehensive  housing 
programme and our commitment to the rule of law, we 
can see that working towards the goals has done a great 
deal to strengthen social welfare. 

lot  about 
ourselves. We are a developing nation, and, more than 
that,  we  are  a  small  one. We  cannot  do  everything  on 
our own, and we need others. This is why our regional 
association is very important to us. It has a great role to 
play  and  I  think  that  is  because  it  also  has  a 
development target. This challenges us to become what 
we  call  an  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations 
community.  In  fact,  the  immediate  target  date  is  the 
same  as  that  for  the  Millennium  Goals,  2015.  Our 
method 
to  establish  what  we  describe  as 
connectivity, and I am sure that nothing will give us a 
stronger  connection  than  achieving  the  Millennium 
Goals  together  as  partners. After  all,  the  Goals  are  at 
the heart of any real community, and the lesson here is 
an inspiring  one: it shows they can be  both a national 
and a regional guide. 

There  is,  however,  another  lesson  we  are  still 
trying  to  learn.  It  concerns  the  targets  that  we  are 
finding  difficult  to  reach. This  is  particularly  the  case 
with 
in  general  and, 
specifically, biodiversity. Even though we have signed 
key international agreements, I must say that we have a 
very  real  problem.  It  can  be  summed  up  quite  simply. 
We  do  not  know  enough.  Statistics  often  contradict 
each  other.  Basic  facts  are  frequently  disputed.  Even 
when we are satisfied with the information we get, we 
cannot  implement  recommendations.  We  can  do  the 
planning and pass the legislation; we can even provide 
much  of  the  physical  infrastructure.  But  there  is  very 
little  else  we  can  do  if  we  do  not  have  enough  highly 
skilled people. 

This is always going to be a big problem because 
of our low population and our small domestic market. 
So,  unless  that  situation  changes,  some  of  the  goals 
will  be  very  hard  to  achieve. This  means  that  success 
cannot  depend  entirely  on  each  individual  country. As 
many  speakers  here  have  said,  deep 
levels  of 
cooperation  are  called  for,  especially  in  sharing  ideas 
and expertise. We see this as the biggest single lesson 
the  natural  environment 
we  have  learned  in  the  last  10  years.  We  are  very 
pleased that the United Nations is promoting this, and 
we will do whatever we can to strengthen these efforts. 

Finally, I would like to thank the Co-Chairs very 
much  for  bringing  us  together  this  week.  We  much 
appreciate  the  chance  it  gives  us  to  learn  from  each 
other  and  to  judge  our  efforts  to  date  from  an 
international perspective. 
The  Acting  Chair:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency Mr. Ali Jarbawi, Minister for Planning and 
Administrative  Development  of 
the  Palestinian 
Authority. 
Mr.  Jarbawi  (Palestine):  In  paragraph  2  of  the 

United Nations Millennium Declaration, world leaders 
acknowledged their collective responsibility 

“to  uphold  the  principles  of  human  dignity, 
equality and equity at the global level. As leaders 
we  have  a  duty  therefore  to  all  the  world’s 
people,  especially  the  most  vulnerable  and,  in 
particular, the children of the world, to whom the 
future belongs” (resolution 55/2). 
for 
and 
foreign 
domination 
freedom  and 
We  must  also  recall  that  world  leaders  rededicated 
themselves to support all efforts to uphold “the right to 
self-determination  of  peoples  which  remain  under 
colonial 
occupation” 
(resolution 55/2, para. 4). 

Palestine is heartened by this commitment, as we 
continue to strive for the realization of our just national 
aspiration 
independence.  The 
Palestinian National Authority is determined to deliver 
social justice  and equality to the Palestinian people in 
the  Occupied  Palestinian  Territory,  including  East 
Jerusalem.  We  are  committed  to  adhering  to  the 
principles enshrined in the Millennium Declaration and 
to  promoting 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) in Palestine. We are doing 
this  despite  the  prolonged  military  occupation  of  our 
land  by  Israel.  This  is  an  illegal  occupation,  it  is  the 
major  obstacle  to  our  attainment  of  the  MDGs,  and  it 
must end. 

As requested by the United Nations, we reported 
our  progress  towards  achieving  the  MDGs  in  a  report 
published  in  June.  Universal  primary  education  and 
gender  equality 
in  education  have  already  been 
achieved, and we are making great strides in improving 
maternal  health  care.  These  achievements  have  been 
made  despite  the  fact  that  children  and  pregnant 
the  attainment  of 
38 

10-54521 
the 
issued 


women  are  still  routinely  held  up  at  Israeli  military 
checkpoints  as  they  travel  to  school  and  health-care 
facilities,  while  many  of  them  are  completely  denied 
access to those vital social institutions. 
Moreover,  improvements  in  basic  services  are 

being  achieved 
through  significant  and  ongoing 
investment  in  public  infrastructure,  with  the  generous 
support  of 
international  donor  community. 
Regrettably,  however,  these  essential  investments  are 
often  obstructed,  and  sometimes  indefinitely  delayed, 
by  a  complex  web  of  restrictions  imposed  by  the 
occupation  that  undermines  our  development  in  all 
sectors. 
In addition to imposing restrictions on Palestinian 

governance  and  socioeconomic  development, 
the 
Israeli  occupation  authority,  and  Israeli  settlers,  are 
also  systematically  exploiting  our  natural  resources  to 
the detriment of the Palestinian people. According to a 
World  Bank  report 
last  year,  per  capita 
withdrawals  by  Palestinians  from  our  water  sources 
amounted to only one quarter of the amount withdrawn 
by  Israelis.  The  same  report  concluded  that,  by 
regional standards, Palestinians have the least access to 
fresh  water.  This  is  just  another  example  of  how  the 
occupation  breeds 
inequality,  with 
significant  negative  social,  economic  and  political 
ramifications.  In  this  regard,  in  concluding  our  MDG 
progress  report,  we  have  highlighted  our  firm  belief 
that  if  the  occupation  ends  and  we  are  able  to 
consolidate  Government  in  our  own  sovereign  and 
independent  State,  we  can  not  only  meet  but  in  fact 
exceed most of the MDGs before 2015. 
Furthermore, in the Gaza Strip, as reported by the 

International  Monetary  Fund 
the 
unemployment  rate  now  stands  at  37  per  cent  —  the 
highest in the world. The private sector in Gaza is still 
denied  basic  raw  materials  needed  to  rebuild  the 
businesses destroyed by the Israeli military aggression 
of 2010 and 2009 and the ongoing illegal blockade. In 
the  West  Bank,  however,  where  our  private  sector  is 
beginning 
jobs  and 
sustainable  livelihoods,  the  unemployment  rate  is  at 
16 per  cent  —  its  lowest  level  since  the  turn  of  the 
millennium. 

We all know that high unemployment rates drive 
poverty,  hunger  and  other  serious  social  problems.  If 
the  current  status  quo  is  allowed  to  continue,  the 
socioeconomic  inequalities  that  exist  between  Gaza 
to  recover  and 
injustice  and 
this  week, 
is  creating 
A/65/PV.8
in 
to  ensuring 
and  the  West  Bank  will  widen  to  unprecedented 
proportions,  with  tragic  consequences  for  the  civilian 
population, particularly children, women and the abject 
poor.  The  blockade  on  the  Gaza  Strip  must  be 
completely lifted and we must be allowed to begin its 
recovery  and  reconstruction.  Otherwise,  not  only  will 
our path towards the attainment of the MDGs continue 
to be obstructed but we shall likely regress. 

In  conclusion,  I  must  draw  your  attention  to  the 
fact  that,  wherever  we  look  across  the  Occupied 
Palestinian  Territory,  whether 
the  West  Bank, 
including  East  Jerusalem,  or  the  Gaza  Strip,  we  see 
human  suffering,  injustice  and  inequality,  entrenched 
by  years  of  occupation  and  colonization.  We  also  see 
vast  challenges  to  our  development  as  a  result  of  the 
occupation’s illegal policies and practices. 
This suffering, injustice and inequality must end. 

We  are  committed 
that  Palestinian 
families —  men,  women  and  children  —  enjoy  their 
human rights, equal rights and equal opportunities. We 
are striving to do so in line with international law and 
the  true  spirit  of  the  United  Nations  Millennium 
Declaration and will continue to move forward on this 
path. 

We  believe  that  equality  and  justice  for  all  our 
citizens  can  only  be  achieved  in  an  independent  State 
of  our  own,  in  which  we  can  live  in  freedom  and 
dignity.  We  know  this  is  a  vision  we  share  with  the 
international  community,  and  Palestine  expresses  its 
sincere  gratitude  to  all  nations  that  have  supported  us 
in  this  just  endeavour.  Your  support  is  needed  now 
more  than  ever  as  we  push  forward  to  complete  the 
process  of  developing 
the 
institutions  of  our  State  before  next  year’s  General 
Assembly. 

This  is  the  cornerstone  of  our  aspirations  to 
independence and inclusion as a permanent member in 
the family of nations, in which we will play an active 
and  positive  role  in  upholding  the  rule  of  law  and 
fulfilling shared goals, including the MDGs. 
The  Acting  Chair:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Alberto  D’Alotto,  Vice-Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Argentine Republic. 
Mr.  D’Alotto  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

When,  in  the  year  2000,  the  international  community 
met  in  this  very  city  at  the  Millennium  Summit,  a 
significant step was taken on the path towards a more 
strengthening 
and 
10-54521 

39 

A/65/PV.8 

just  and  equitable  world.  For  the  first  time,  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  established 
basic,  objective,  concrete  and  tangible  parameters  for 
development  and  the  eradication  of  poverty.  These 
parameters then became measurable goals. 

In making a commitment to achieving the Goals, 
we  acted  with  the  firm  conviction  that  a  collective 
effort,  cooperation  and  solidarity  were  essential  to 
resolve  the  most  urgent  and  serious  development 
problems  affecting  the  world’s  peoples.  They  were 
ambitious  goals  in  some  cases,  but  attainable.  Above 
all,  they  were  crucial  in  the  quest  for  human  dignity 
and respect for fundamental human rights.  

Although  the  goals  were  ambitious  for  many 
Member States, it is also true that some  of the  agreed 
goals  set  the  bar  too  low  for  developed  countries  and  
many  middle-income  countries.  For  this  reason,  the 
Argentine  Republic  assigned  itself  a  few  additional 
parameters. 

Thus we identified job creation as a distinct goal. 
We  considered  this  crucial  in  our  efforts  to  achieve 
positive results, which we have in fact attained thus far, 
and  as  a  central  element  in  a  set  of  policies  which 
would  enable  us  to  make  substantial  progress  in 
reducing  extreme  poverty  and  poverty  and 
in 
improving all social indicators. 
In  2007,  Argentina  reached  the  unemployment 

goal which had been set for 2015. Furthermore, despite 
the  international  crisis  which  has  recently  affected 
labour  markets  in  the  majority  of  countries, Argentina 
managed  to  maintain  employment  levels,  and  the 
unemployment rate  remained below the 2015 target. In 
the  Argentine  strategy,  the  importance  of  productive 
and  quality  work  was  complemented  by  a  decisive 
direct  income  transfer  policy,  which  found  maximum 
expression  in  the  launching  of  a  social  protection 
programme  of  universal  income  for  children,  which 
today  covers  more  than  3.6  million  minors.  These 
results have been more than promising. 

the  Argentine 
the  outset, 
Government set up specialized MDG structures within 
the  office  of  the  presidency,  thus  undertaking  a  joint 
and  multidisciplinary  effort  involving  all  the  different 
departments of our public administration.  

indicators  of  Argentina’s 
progress towards the MDGs, I would like to point out 
the  following.  With  respect  to  the  eradication  of 
Furthermore,  from 
reviewing 
the 
In 
those 
as 
With 
respect 
to 
besides 
the  fact 
With 
a  view 
to 
diseases, 
ensuring 
a 
in 
such 
education: 
tuberculosis 
in  particular, 
extreme  poverty  and  hunger,  the  goal  of  reducing 
poverty by at least 20 per cent by 2015 was reached in 
the  second  half  of  2008,  when  was  already  below 
15 per  cent. At  that  time,  the  rate  of  extreme  poverty 
had dropped by 84 per cent to 4.4 per cent.  

the 
achievement  of  universal  primary  education,  which 
was  one  of  the  most  accessible  goals  for  our  country, 
given 
that  primary  education  has  been 
mandatory and free of charge for more than a century, 
we  have  made  considerable  progress  towards  even 
more  demanding  goals, 
for 
secondary  education,  where  we  have  reached  some 
intermediate targets.  

In the fight against HIV/AIDS, by 2007 the rates 
had  decreased    to  the  levels  targeted  for  2015.  We 
that  Argentina  has  made 
should  also  point  out 
the  fight  against  other 
considerable  progress 
endemic 
and 
trypanosomoiasis, which we included within this goal. 

sustainable 
environment,  Argentina  has  set 
targets  for  2015 
requiring  all  national  policies  and  programmes  to 
integrate the principles of sustainable development. We 
are  also  remedying  the  loss  of  natural  resources, 
reducing by two thirds the percentage of the population 
that have no access to drinking water or to sewage. In 
addition,  we  have  reduced  by  half  the  percentage  of 
people who have substandard housing or unacceptable 
living conditions. 
in  reducing  child 

mortality,  both  the  general  rate  and  the  rate  of  those 
under five, by two thirds. Maternal mortality has been 
decreased by 75 per cent.  

In  the  Millennium  Declaration,  on  the  basis  of 
central  values  and  principles  which  give  meaning  to 
multilateralism,  we 
to 
strengthen  respect  for  human  dignity  and  to  promote 
better  living  conditions  for  all.  Since  2000,  we  have 
periodically  met  to  review  the  progress  we  have 
achieved  in  this  undertaking,  including  at  the  2005 
Millennium Summit. 

A  decade  from  the  establishment  of  the  MDGs 
and  only  five  years  from  the  deadline  to  attain  them, 
we should carry out a candid and thorough review and 
readjust  the  course  of  our  action  if  necessary.  We  do 
not  believe  in  magic  or  easy  formulas.  Rather  we 
We  have  been  successful 
the  commitment 
reiterate 
40 

10-54521 


believe  in  the  virtues  of  multilateralism,  the  power  of 
solidarity and the value  of  resolve, in  order to honour 
our commitments. We believe in the multiplyier effect 
of good practices and successful results.  

If  we  are  to  be  successful,  this  is  not  an 
undertaking in which countries can go it alone. For this 
reason,  my  country  is  convinced  that  we  need  to 
strengthen 
integration  and  cooperation  processes, 
particularly  in  the  area  of  the  Southern  Common 
Market  (MERCOSUR)  and 
the  Union  of  South 
American Nations.  

For  these  reasons,  it  is  our  hope  that  the  nations 
represented here, and in particular those with the most 
resources,  the  developed  countries,  will  honour  the 
commitments  that  they  made  in  different  forums  as  a 
result of the Millennium Declaration, in terms of both 
financial  assistance  and  international  cooperation.  If 
they  do  not,  many  of  the  efforts  that  have  been  made 
thus  far  to  reach  the  Goals  by  2015  will  be  seriously 
jeopardized.  
The  Acting  Chair:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr. Afelee  F.  Pita,  chair  of  the  delegation 
of Tuvalu. 
Mr.  Pita  (Tuvalu):  Earlier  this  month,  Tuvalu 

commemorated the tenth anniversary of its membership 
in the United Nations, as the 189th Member State. Our 
admission  as  a  full  member  of  this  body  was  an 
expression of trust, hope and commitment to the noble 
ideals  and  fundamental  pillars  of  the  United  Nations. 
Our hope was also underpinned by and coincided with 
the adoption of the Millennium Declaration (resolution 
55/2)  by  world 
the  United  Nations 
Millennium  Summit  held  10  years  ago. As  one  of  the 
smallest  Members  of  the  United  Nations,  Tuvalu 
considers 
the  Millennium 
Declaration —  with  its  promise  of  an  agreed  set  of 
time-bound  and  measurable  goals  and  targets  for 
combating 
illiteracy, 
environmental  degradation  and  discrimination  against 
women — to be a critical challenge. 

Today, we are pleased to participate in this High-
level Plenary Meeting of the General Assembly on the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  fully 
recognize  the  need  to  review  and  accelerate  progress, 
renew our commitments and rebuild our partnerships to 
achieve  the  MDGs  by  2015. We  also  see  the  need  for 
this  body  to  agree  on  an  ambitious  road  map,  with 
concrete  actions  to  be  pursued  vigorously  by  Member 
leaders  at 
adoption 
poverty, 
disease, 
hunger, 
the 
of 
A/65/PV.8
first 
the 
In 
rates 
requires 
in  primary 
commitment  of 
States,  as  a  way  forward  to  achieve  the  MDGs  by  the 
target date. 

From  the  perspective  of  Tuvalu,  meeting  the 
MDGs 
its 
Government  to  ensuring  that  the  appropriate  policies 
and  systems  are  in  place  to  facilitate  that  task. 
Secondly,  not  only  must  such  commitment  be 
complemented and supported by development partners, 
but,  more  importantly,  the  developed  countries  must 
deliver their commitments in a timely manner. 
limited 

the  case  of  Tuvalu,  despite  our 
resources,  coupled  with  our  unique  challenges  as  a 
small  island  developing  State  (SIDS)  and  a  least 
developed country (LDC), and thus among those most 
vulnerable 
to  external  shocks  and  environmental 
disasters,  we  have  been  able  to  make  at  least  some 
progress towards achieving some of the MDGs during 
the past 10 years. 
In  that  context,  our  population  does  not  suffer 

from  extreme  poverty  and  hunger. We  have  very  high 
participation 
education.  The 
participation  of  women  in  our  society  is  prominent, 
although representation in Parliament remains an issue. 
Progress in reducing child mortality is somewhat slow. 
Access  to  adequate  health  care  remains  an  issue. 
Similarly,  improvements  in  maternal  health  care  are 
also  limited.  With  regard  to  combating  HIV/AIDS, 
malaria and other diseases, Tuvalu has been moderately 
successful,  but 
significant 
improvement. 
There  is  one  very  clear  lesson  that  we  have 

learned from our review of the MDGs. It relates to the 
fact  that,  while  we  have  made  progress  towards 
achieving the MDGs, these successes can be easily and 
very  quickly  reversed  by  our  particular  economic  and 
this  context  of 
environmental  vulnerability. 
economic  vulnerability, 
financial  and 
economic crisis has had an enormous adverse effect on 
Tuvalu’s  economy.  Tuvalu’s  principal  source  of 
Government  expenditure  is  through  its  trust  fund, 
which 
investments.  These 
investments  were  severely  affected  by  the  crisis  and 
will 
recover.  Furthermore, 
Government  expenditure  declined  dramatically,  and 
efforts  to  achieve  the  MDGs  were  therefore  adversely 
affected. In a small island economy where there is little 
opportunity 
is 
is  based  on  overseas 
investment,  Tuvalu 
the  global 
internal 
room 
there 
take 
some 
time 
to 
is 
for 
for 
In 
10-54521 

41 

A/65/PV.8 

extremely  vulnerable  to  economic  circumstances  well 
beyond its control. 

Matched  with  the  decline  in  income  has  been  a 
rise  in  the  cost  of  energy  production.  Importing  fossil 
fuel to provide electricity for our population is a major 
drain  on  the  economy  of  Tuvalu.  We  are  in  desperate 
need  of  renewable  energy  and  energy  efficiency 
technologies  that  are  appropriate  to  the  conditions  of 
Tuvalu.  In  this  context,  I  would  like  to  acknowledge 
the  support  of  the  Italian  Government  in  assisting  in 
the provision of solar energy for our main Government 
high school. 

Another significant burden on Tuvalu’s economic 
sustainability  is  the  effect  of  illegal,  unreported  and 
unregulated  (IUU)  fishing.  At  a  recent  maritime 
security  meeting  in  Hawaii,  it  was  noted  that  an 
estimated  20  per  cent  of  the  reported  catch  from  the 
Pacific  comes  from  IUU  fishing.  IUU  fishing  in  our 
economic  exclusive  zone  by  distant-water  fishing 
nations  robs  us  of  one  of  the  few  sources  of  foreign 
revenue  available  to  us.  Addressing  the  issue  of  IUU 
fishing  is  another  crucial  component  of  ensuring 
progress in our efforts to achieve the MDGs. 

We all know that all of the MDGs are interrelated 
and that their achievement requires strong partnerships 
between  developed  and  developing  countries.  This  is 
articulated 
in  MDG  8,  which  asserts  collective 
responsibility 
and 
assistance  to  achieve  all  the  MDGs.  Unfortunately, 
Tuvalu’s progress towards MDG 8 has been mixed. 
the  broader  aspects  of 

international  partnership,  we  must  acknowledge  with 
great  dismay  that  the  lack  of  progress  in  addressing 
climate  change  is  one  of  the  greatest  challenges  to 
achieving  the  MDGs.  Despite  this  undeniable  fact, 
many  key  greenhouse  gas-emitting  countries  are  not 
taking  substantive  steps  to  reduce  their  production  of 
greenhouse gases. We were deeply disappointed by the 
outcomes  of 
in 
Copenhagen  in  December.  The  so-called  Copenhagen 
Accord  was  a  statement  of  discord.  Promises  of  two 
years  of  funding  for  adaptation  and  mitigation  in 
exchange  for  half-baked  commitments  to  reducing 
emissions  are  not  a  recipe  for  long-term  action  to 
address climate change.  

In this context, we need a strong signal from the 
major  greenhouse  gas-emitting  countries  that  their 
Governments are committed to taking decisive actions 
the  Climate  Change  Conference 
In  consideration  of 
international 
for 
cooperation 
to 
its 
to  address  climate  change.  Without  such  commitment 
and action, we are unlikely to come anywhere near to 
meeting  the  MDGs  by  2015,  and  may  well  slip 
backwards from the achievements we have made so far. 

For  Tuvalu,  addressing  climate  change  in  a 
substantial  way  is  fundamental  for  our  sustainable 
development. We  cannot  allow  the  next  conference  in 
Cancún to be another failure like Copenhagen. Tuvalu 
is undoubtedly one of the countries most vulnerable in 
the world to the impacts of climate change, especially 
sea  level  rise.  Our  very  survival  is  threatened  by  that 
phenomenon,  and  hence  our  progress 
towards 
achieving  the  MDGs  is  seriously  challenged.  As  a 
small  coral  atoll  nation,  our  entire  existence  is  based 
on  a  natural  and  living  system,  and  without  its 
continuation our land would disappear. 
In  the  context  of  MDG  8,  Tuvalu  strongly  feels 

that, 
in  addition 
traditional  donors  and 
development  partners  that  are  members  of  the  United 
Nations,  Taiwan  plays  a  crucial  and  instrumental  role 
in assisting  many countries, including Tuvalu, in their 
efforts  to  achieve  the  MDGs.  In  the  spirit  of  global 
cooperation  and  partnership,  Taiwan’s  continuous 
endeavours in this regard should be fully recognized by 
the  United  Nations.  Therefore,  Tuvalu  humbly  calls 
upon  the  United  Nations  and  its  subsidiary  bodies  to 
find  appropriate  ways  within  their  respective  systems 
to  accept  and  accommodate  Taiwan’s  meaningful 
participation and contribution, so that the MDG targets 
can be better achieved. 

As we look forward towards 2015, I would like to 
conclude with two key considerations. First, the unique 
situation  and  needs  of  SIDS  and  LDCs  like  Tuvalu 
must be given special attention. Despite the significant 
progress  we  have  made  in  achieving  some  of  the 
MDGs,  our  extreme  vulnerability  makes  it  highly 
likely  that  these  achievements  could  easily  be  lost 
entirely, overnight. 

Secondly,  we  must  direct  our  attention  to  the 
responsibilities  of  the  developed  world.  Much  of  the 
discussion  around 
focused  on 
developing countries and the actions they need to take 
to  address  their  deficiencies  in  achieving  the  MDGs. 
Regrettably, little attention has been given to the clear 
role  that  the  developed  world  needs  to  play  to  avoid 
exacerbating  the  problems  of  developing  countries. 
Failure  to  address  these  issues  will  result  in  poor  and 
small countries like Tuvalu bearing the burden. 
the  MDGs  has 
42 

10-54521 
of 
the 
signed 


The  Acting  Chair:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Robert  Guba  Aisi,  chairman  of  the 
delegation of Papua New Guinea. 
Mr. Aisi  (Papua  New  Guinea):  On  behalf  of  the 

Government  of  Papua  New  Guinea,  I  thank  the 
President  of  the  General Assembly  and  the  Secretary-
General  for  convening  this  summit  to  review  our 
performance  and  look  at  ways  to  accelerate  progress 
towards 
the  Millennium 
achievement 
Development Goals (MDGs). 
In  2000,  Papua  New  Guinea,  along  with  189 

other  Member  States, 
the  Millennium 
Declaration (resolution 55/2), committing ourselves to 
achieving the eight Millennium Goals by 2015. Papua 
New  Guinea  has  adapted  and  localized  the  MDGs  by 
establishing  15  targets  and  67  indicators  within  our 
medium-term  development  strategy  for  the  period 
2005-2010.  Our  efforts  to  implement  the  MDGs  are 
reflected  in  our  first  national  MDG  report,  of  2004. 
Our second MDG report was completed recently and is 
under review. Those reports indicate that we have been 
able  to  make  significant  progress  on  some  of  the 
national  MDGS  targets,  especially  on  Goals  2  and  4. 
Other  MDGs  remain  works  in  progress  and  include 
challenges. 

In  order  to  attain  the  MDGs,  the  Government 
Papua  New  Guinea  is  currently  focused  on  a  20-year 
strategy of transforming the rural sector, where 86 per 
cent  of  the  country’s  population  lives.  Our  country’s 
development  strategic  plan  for  the  period  2010-2030 
has identified 10 areas, or  corridors, of  poverty in the 
country.  The  aim  is  to  transform  those  corridors  into 
robust  socio-economic  areas  with  improved  basic 
services, 
infrastructure 
linkages, within the next 20 years. 

Our  aim  is  to  achieve  a  much  higher  level  of 
human development in the next 20 years. By 2030, we 
want  to  become  a  middle-income  economy,  with  our 
human  development  index  improving  from  its  current 
0.51  to  0.7,  along  with  much  higher  gross  domestic 
product  per  capita.  Papua  New  Guinea’s  development 
strategic  plan  and  medium-term  development  plan  for 
the  period  2011-2015  are  aligned  to  attain  those 
objectives.  It  is  within  that  context  that  our  country 
will achieve the MDGs. In doing so, we have made the 
MDGs part of our national development policy. In the 
remaining five years, Papua New Guinea will scale up 
its efforts in an attempt to meet the 2015 deadline. 
including  roads  and  vital 
A/65/PV.8
that  proposal  will  empower  women 

In  addition  to  the  efforts  I  have  mentioned, 
important initiatives are being pursued that should help 
us  make  progress  along  the  path  to  achieving  the 
MDGs.  Those  initiatives  include  the  current  proposal 
to  appoint  22  women  representatives  to  our  National 
Parliament,  our  universal  basic  education  policy,  the 
creation of the Office and Ministry of Climate Change, 
a proactive approach to forging partnerships with civil 
society  organizations,  and  the  identification  of  the  10 
corridors of poverty, to which I have just referred. 

Gender equality is important to attaining MDG 3. 
In  that  respect,  a  proposal  is  before  the  National 
Parliament to appoint 22 women representatives. Once 
adopted, 
to 
participate  in  the  political  decision-making  process  of 
our country. 

Papua New Guinea is committed to up-scaling its 
efforts  to  achieve  MDG  2,  on  universal  primary 
education. To that end, the Government has introduced 
its  universal  primary  education  policy  and  is  working 
to endure free primary-level education for all children 
by  2015.  The  Government  is  committing  substantial 
funds every year to realize this important policy, which 
will contribute to attaining the MDGs. 

Like  other  countries,  Papua  New  Guinea’s 
development  agenda  is  challenged  by  climate  change 
and 
in 
Bougainville,  and  the  Duke  of  York  Islands,  in  East 
New  Britain  Province,  are  two  cases  in  which  our 
islands  are  seriously  affected  by  sea 
level  rise. 
Therefore,  addressing  the  issue  of  climate  change  is 
important,  both  through  adaptation  and  mitigation 
projects  as  well  as  by  protecting  our  vast  tropical 
rainforests. The Government has created the Office  of 
Climate  Change  and  recently  appointed  a  Minster  for 
Climate  Change.  That  decision  by  the  Government  is 
targeted towards the achievement of MDG 7. 

A  large  percentage  of  health  and  education 
services is provided by churches. The Government has 
engaged  civil  society  and  churches  by  signing 
development  partnerships.  Funding  those  partnerships 
is  now  catered  for  through  the  national  Government’s 
annual budget. 

The role of the private sector is also important to 
the achievement of the MDGs, in particular in creating 
employment  and  raising  the  standard  of  living  of  our 
people.  To  that  end,  the  Government  has  adopted  a 
rise.  The  Carteret 
Islands, 
level 
sea 
10-54521 

43 

focused  on 
improvement  programme,  which 
A/65/PV.8 

policy  of  public-private  partnerships  to  facilitate  the 
private sector’s contribution. 

The  challenges  we  face  in  pursuing  our  MDGs 
are  compounded  by  the  difficult  terrain  and  physical 
landscape of Papua New Guinea. More than 86 per cent 
of our people live in rural areas. Infrastructure, human 
resources and rural development are therefore national 
priorities.  Since  2008,  deliberate  efforts  through  the 
national  budget  have  been 
rural 
programmes.  That  has  been  done  through  our  district 
services 
includes 
district markets, rural water supplies, agriculture, rural 
telecommunications  and 
the  provision  of  energy, 
including renewable energy. So far, about $500 million 
has been spent on our rural interventions programme.  

Papua  New  Guinea  is  committed  to  continuing 
the programme, which will improve the quality of life 
of  our  rural  population.  In 
that  connection,  we 
acknowledge  the statement made by Ms. Helen Clark, 
Administrator  of  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme,  about 
improving 
accessibility to basic services for the rural majority. We 
have  demonstrated  our  commitment  by  funding  our 
pro-MDG  programmes,  simply  because 
is  our 
development priority as well. 
importance  of 
the 
it 
to 
them 
implement,  our 

In  the  next  five  years,  the  Government  of  Papua 
New Guinea will commit substantial funds through its 
medium-term  development  plan  for  the  period  2011-
2015 to accelerate the achievement of the MDGs. Four 
provinces have been identified as pilot provinces to try 
out new programmes aimed at fast-tracking the MDGs. 
We would like to remind our development partners of, 
and  encourage 
joint 
commitments  under  the  Paris  Declaration  and  the 
Accra  Agenda  for  Action  to  pool  and  align  our 
resources so that we can fast-track the achievement of 
the MDGs and ensure their sustainability beyond 2015. 

issues  of  regional  collaboration  and 
partnership,  such  as  South-South  cooperation,  are 
critically  important.  Those  principles  were  articulated 
at  the  Asia-Pacific  ministerial  meeting  on  the  MDGs 
held  in  Jakarta,  Indonesia,  on  3  and  4 August,  which 
culminated  in  the  adoption  of  the  Jakarta  declaration, 
which my delegation fully supports and commends for 
consideration  by  the  General  Assembly.  We  thank 
Indonesia for its leadership in that regard. 



The meeting rose at 2.50 p.m. 
Lastly, 
44 

10-54521 
