
A/65/PV.12
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

12th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 23 September 2010, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 
peace 
talks  have  resumed  between  Israelis  and 
Palestinians. This is a very important moment, because 
they resume precisely when many people had given up 
hope for a just and lasting peace in the Middle East. 

The  road  to  peace,  security,  and  justice  is  still  a 
long  one.  The  remaining  obstacles  are  enormous.  But 
the goal is so noble and necessary that no effort should 
be spared. That is why today I would like to pay tribute 
to all those who are taking risks for peace. Yes, risks. 
Because  peace  is  never  obvious,  never  easy.  That  is 
certainly  true  in  the  Middle  East,  and  it  is  true  in  my 
region as well. 

One  of  our  common  goals,  then,  must  be  to 
enable those  risk-takers who have the courage to defy 
conventional  wisdom  and  forge  new  paths  to  peace. 
Peace is not an easy way. But peace is the only way. 

As  the  President  of  a  young  democracy  that 
recently  suffered  from  war  and  invasion  and  is  still 
under  partial  occupation  of  an  important  part  of  its 
territory by a nuclear super-Power, I can say this: peace 
is  our  most  precious  common  goal  and,  at  the  same 
time, our only path towards the other goals we share. 

To those here and in my own country who see no 
way to reverse the armed occupation or reduce regional 
tensions, I say: peace is not only the goal, it is also the 
means to any goal. 
Today my region is at a crossroads. For too long, 

it  has  suffered  from  division, 
injustice,  conflict, 
colonization  and  violence.  Today,  however,  change  is 
possible. In fact, change is already taking place. I came 








  In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Kleib 
(Indonesia), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m. 
Address by Mr. Mikheil Saakashvili, President of 
Georgia 

hear an address by the President of Georgia. 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

Mr. Mikheil Saakashvili, President of Georgia, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mikheil  Saakashvili, 
President  of  Georgia,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly. 

President  Saakashvili:  It  is  always  a  great 
honour  for  me  to  address  the  annual  gathering  of  the 
General Assembly. 

In  uncertain  times  such  as  ours,  cooperation  is 
more  necessary  than  ever.  Unless  we  stand  together 
and invent new approaches to the global challenges we 
all  face,  we  shall  be  torn  apart  by  fear  and  self-
destructive interests. Gatherings such as this, therefore, 
are valuable only if they allow us to shape a common 
vision for concrete action towards peace, development, 
solidarity and justice. 

This  month,  thanks  to  the  coordinated  efforts  of 
the  international  community  and  the  leadership  of 
President Obama and Secretary of State Clinton, direct 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-54833 (E) 
*1054833* 



and 
created 
authorities 
A/65/PV.12 

here  to  speak  about  this  change  and  to  promote  a 
specific vision — a vision of a free, stable and united 
Caucasus. 

From the times of Pushkin, Lermontov or Tolstoy 
to the present day, the Caucasian mountains have been 
a symbol of wilderness and paradoxes, a region where 
individuals  and  souls  were  fundamentally  free,  but 
where  citizens  were  brutally  oppressed;  where  people 
tolerant,  but  where 
and  cultures  were  deeply 
Governments 
artificial 
divisions;  where  shepherds  would  cross  5,000-metres-
high mountains, but where rulers erected walls nobody 
could  cross.  I  have  come  here  today  to  tell  the 
Assembly  that  those  times  are  vanishing,  that  the 
dream of unity and peace is possible. 

When I addressed the Assembly two years ago — 
in the aftermath of a full-scale invasion, and when the 
Russian  Foreign  Minister  was  openly  discussing  with 
foreign diplomats and the international community the 
possibility  of  Georgia’s  total  annihilation  —  few 
people  believed  that  our  country  would  survive  as  an 
independent and democratic State. Few people thought 
that  our  Government  would  endure,  that  our  economy 
would  survive  the  war  and  the  global  crisis,  that  our 
reforms could continue with renewed vigour, or that we 
would  make  steady  progress  towards  the  European 
Union and Euro-Atlantic structures. 

Well, I am proud to tell the Assembly, two years 
later,  that  we  have  succeeded  against  all  the  odds, 
thanks to the  commitment of the Georgian people and 
to  the  support  of  friends  and  allies. Today,  Georgia  is 
back. 

reform and social transformation. 

More than ever, we are committed to the promise 
at  the  heart  of  the  Rose  Revolution  to  turn  a  failed 
State into a modern European one. Our local elections 
last  May  were  proof  of  that  transformation  and  a 
milestone for our democracy, the result of seven years 
of patient, constant, tireless reform. 

institutionalized 
governance. 

My  term  as  President  ends  in  2013.  These 
changes  will  survive  my  presidency  and  the  current 
Government,  because  we  are  not  speaking  only  about 
changes of leadership or reforms of institutions; we are 
Georgia is back, first, as a laboratory for political 
to  create  a  more 
liberal 
democratic 
is  clear: 
of 
Our  objective 
system 

the 
speaking  about  something  deeper  and  stronger  — 
something  that  The  Economist  of  London  recently 
branded as Georgia’s “mental revolution”. 
The  Georgian  people  have  tasted  freedom,  the 

absence  of  corruption, 
fruits  of  economic 
development,  the  emergence  of  a  true  meritocracy. 
They have changed their behaviour, their vision of the 
world, their dreams even, and they will mightily resist 
any  attempts  to  reverse  those  changes  —  no  matter 
whether  those  attempts  come  from  inside  or  from 
abroad. 

This  is  our  great  victory:  we  helped  to  create 
something that goes far beyond the leaders and parties 
that  led  the  Rose  Revolution.  We  helped  to  create  a 
revolution of the heart and the mind. 

Once  one  of  the  most  corrupt  countries  of  the 
post-Soviet  world,  Georgia  has  made  greater  gains  in 
the 
fight  against  corruption,  as  witnessed  by 
Transparency  International,  than  any  other  country 
over  the  past  five  years.  Once  a  place  where  foreign 
investors  were  kidnapped  by  gangs  and  mafias, 
Georgia  is  now  ranked  by  the World  Bank  as  number 
11 for ease of doing business in the world — a ranking 
we  hope  to  further  improve  this  year  —  and  the 
number  1  in  Eastern  and  Central  Europe.  These 
rankings  make  clear  why  Georgia’s  only  interest  is  a 
peaceful resolution of conflicts: Georgia is winning the 
peace — Georgia is winning through peace. 

Our  northern  neighbour  expected  us  to  change 
our path when it imposed on us a full embargo in 2006, 
invaded  us  in  2008,  ethnically  cleansed  Georgian 
regions  and  illegally  occupied  20  per  cent  of  our 
territory,  an  occupation  that  continues  to  this  day. All 
these  actions  had  one  objective: 
the 
Georgian  laboratory  of  political,  economic  and  social 
reform — to prevent the region from changing. 

relentless  attacks  by 
reinvigorating our reforms, opening our economy even 
more,  and  accelerating  our  social  transformation. This 
is  our  policy,  and  no  provocation  will  ever  make  us 
change  it.  Thanks  to  this  commitment  to  reform, 
Georgia is now a responsible international player. 

fighting 
international  terrorism  in  Afghanistan.  I  pay  tribute 
here to our nearly 1,000 soldiers who are risking their 
lives every day in the south of Afghanistan to help the 
Afghan people secure a stable, terror-free future. I pay 
that  my  nation 
We  answered 
I  am  proud 
to  destroy 
those 
is 
2 

10-54833 


a  special  tribute  today  to  company  commander  First 
Lieutenant  Mukhran  Shukvani,  who  died  earlier  this 
month.  Mukhran  was  killed  in  the  cause  of  peace, 
while serving alongside NATO forces in the dangerous 
Helmand province of Afghanistan. 

We  are  fighting  other  common  scourges,  now 
focusing  especially  on  the  terrible  danger  of  nuclear 
trafficking.  Many  times  over  the  past  seven  years  we 
have intercepted criminals who had in their possession 
the essential ingredients for nuclear devices. Every step 
of  the  way,  we  have  cooperated  with  our  allies  in  the 
international  community  to  ensure  that  Georgia  is 
doing  everything  possible  to  confront  this  global 
danger. 

Here  I  must  pause  to  draw  attention  to  a  grave 
problem that resulted from the partial occupation of my 
country  —  a  problem  that  everybody  should  worry 
about,  even  those  who  overlook  and  do  not  care  too 
much about violations of international law, who forget 
500,000  internally  displaced  persons  and  refugees; 
even  those  who  dismiss  repeated  assaults  on  basic 
human rights, civil liberties and the environment. 
I  am  speaking  of  the  lawlessness  bred  by  the 

Russian occupation. Our two occupied regions exist in 
a  black  hole  of  governance.  Today,  in  those  lands, 
criminals act with impunity. The most elemental human 
rights  are  abused.  Drugs  and  weapons  are  smuggled. 
People  are  trafficked. And  potential  weapons  of  mass 
destruction  are  moved  in  and  out  of  the  territories, 
posing a threat to us all. 
Three  days  ago,  we  met  in  this  very  place  to 

discuss  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  our 
progress in meeting them over the past decade. I shall 
not tire the Assembly with a recitation of our efforts to 
achieve the Goals, the strides we have made in halving 
our  poverty  rate  and  decreasing  by  two  thirds  our 
extreme poverty, reforming our educational system and 
improving health care. 
But  I  will  tell  the  Assembly  that  all  those 

successes  remain  bittersweet  for  me,  because  they 
cannot be savoured by all the people of Georgia — not 
by  those  who  live  in  fear  for  their  basic  rights  in  the 
occupied territories, nor fully by the 500,000 internally 
displaced  persons  and  refugees  who  were  expelled 
from their homes and cannot go back and regain their 
property. 
A/65/PV.12

For the last two years the Russian Federation has 
been  violating  the  ceasefire  agreement  brokered  in 
August  2008  by  my  good  friend  French  President 
Nicolas Sarkozy, who was acting at the time on behalf 
of  the  European  Union.  The  Russian  army  has  not 
withdrawn  as  required  by  the  ceasefire.  European 
Union monitors cannot enter Russian-occupied areas of 
Georgia,  where  a  constant  military  build-up  is  taking 
place.  Hundreds  of  thousands  of  internally  displaced 
persons,  victims  of  the  ethnic  cleansing  campaign  led 
by the Russian forces, are still prevented from entering 
their homes. 

How  did  Georgia  respond  to  those  violations  of 
international law and human rights? We answered with 
patience  and  calm.  We  implemented  —  fully  —  the 
ceasefire  agreement  and  went  beyond  our  obligations, 
without  ever  using  as  a  pretext  Russia’s  refusal  to 
comply.  Last  month,  the  head  of  the  European  Union 
Monitoring  Mission  in  Georgia,  Ambassador  Haber, 
publicly  praised  Georgian  policy  as  “constructive 
unilateralism”. 
What  does  constructive  unilateralism  mean?  It 

refers,  for 
to  our  calm  when  militias 
supported  by  Russia’s  federal  security  service  (FSB) 
killed  our  policemen  at  the  occupation  line,  or  to  our 
willingness 
the 
occupation regime when the other side was kidnapping 
teenagers  who  wanted  to  visit  their  empty  house  just 
after their school time. 

Constructive unilateralism means that we behave 
in  a  civilized  and  patient  way,  even  when  our  enemy 
uses barbaric methods or implements an impulsive and 
irrational  policy.  It  means  that  —  even  if  peace 
requires both sides to come to the negotiating table — 
one can pave the way to  peace on one’s own, without 
the other side’s cooperating. 

This  constructive  unilateralism  is  based  on  the 
idea  that  peace  is  in  the  supreme  interest  of  Georgia, 
that peace is the only path to the de-occupation of our 
country.  It  forms  the  substance  of  the  strategy  on 
occupied  territories  that  my  Government  has  put  in 
motion  to  engage  the  populations  held  hostage  by  the 
Russian  occupiers,  on  the  other  side  of  the  new  Iron 
Curtain that illegally divides our country. 

Like the Berlin Wall, walls like the one dividing 
Georgia will be brought down not by bombs, but by the 
commitment  of  citizens 
to  build  a  free,  united 
country —  and  by  the  commitment  of  the  world 
free  criminals  working 
for 
instance, 
to 
10-54833 

3 
law  and 
the 

international 
A/65/PV.12 

community 
to  enforce 
principles of the Charter. 

This  commitment  is  expressed  in  the  refusal  of 
nearly  the  entire  world  to  legitimize  the  Russian 
occupation  and  the  result  of  ethnic  cleansing  by 
recognizing  the  so-called  independence  of  Abkhazia 
and  the  Tskhinvali  region,  a  de  facto  annexation  of 
Georgian territories by the Russian Federation. 

It  is  noticeable  that,  despite  enormous  pressure 
and multiple threats from Moscow, not a single former 
Soviet republic has recognized this dismemberment of 
Georgia. It shows — to the great surprise of those who 
describe  the  fall  of  the  Soviet  empire  as  the  worst 
catastrophe  of  the  twentieth  century  —  that  the  old 
times  are  definitely  over.  It  shows  that  the  change  I 
evoked earlier has already taken root. It shows that all 
the  former  captive  nations  of  Soviet  times  are  now 
independent  States  that  can  determine  their  own 
policies.  It  is  noticeable  —  and  it  is  noticed  in 
Moscow. 

I  solemnly  call  today  on  those  three,  isolated 
Member  States  that  recognized  Russia’s  de  facto 
annexation  of  our 
the 
Russian-led  ethnic  cleansing  of  around  500,000 
citizens,  to  acknowledge  that  it  is  never  too  late  to 
reverse  a  bad  policy.  The  dismemberment  of  Georgia 
has  failed  categorically  —  and  even  the  Russian 
Federation  will  one  day  need  to  reverse  its  disastrous 
policy. Imagine how uncomfortable those leaders from 
faraway countries will be when Moscow itself chooses 
to  comply  with  international  law  and  withdraw  its 
troops. Because that day will come. 

Those  who  claimed  a  military  victory  in  2008 
now  face  a  diplomatic  and  political  defeat.  And  in 
Moscow  the  occupation  and  annexation  will  soon  be 
debated.  They  are  in  fact  already  debated  in  the 
corridors  of  the  Kremlin,  because  this  situation  is  not 
sustainable, even for the Russian leadership. 
We  have  now  in  our  country  Russian  soldiers 

deserting  their  units  and  fleeing  to  the  Georgian  side 
through  the  wall  erected  by  their  superiors,  just  as 
Soviet  soldiers  did  in  Berlin  during  the  cold  war.  In 
which direction is history moving? Certainly not in the 
direction  of  those  who  can  deploy  thousands  of  tanks 
in a very short time, but who cannot even take care of 
their soldiers or prevent them from fleeing. 
territories  and 
legitimized 

Those who refuse to modernize their society and 
to  open  their  political  system  may  have  an  interest  in 
war  and  instability.  But  in  Georgia  we  know,  and  we 
have  always  known,  that  peace  is  our  interest  —  the 
very precondition of our survival and our success. 
I have three calls to make today. 

My  first  call  is  addressed  to  my  fellow  citizens, 

ethnic Abkhaz  and  Ossetian,  who  live  behind  the  new 
Iron Curtain that divides our common nation. I want to 
tell them once again: We will protect your rights, your 
culture, your history — we will work with you, we will 
work  for  you.  You  are  part  of  a  common  history,  a 
common  culture  and  a  common 
future.  Your 
differences  enrich  our  proud  national  tapestry.  Rather 
than  see  you  succumb  to  annexation  by  the  emerging 
Russian empire, we invite you to build together with us 
a  multicultural  and  multi-ethnic  society  that  will  be  a 
regional model for tolerance and respect. 
I  dream  about  the  day  when  —  as  has  happened 

several times in our common history — an Abkhaz or 
Ossetian  citizen  of  Georgia  becomes  President  and 
leader of a democratic and European Georgia. And this 
dream  will  become  possible  in  a  reunited  and  free 
Georgia,  a  Georgia  that  will  build  positive  relations 
and  even 
the  Russian 
Federation,  a  Russian  Federation  acting  as  a  rational 
international  player  and  not  as  a  revisionist  or 
revanchist  Power;  a  Russian  Federation  that  will  have 
chosen  cooperation  instead  of  confrontation  and  has 
dropped the politics of embargoes and intolerance, and 
instead of imposing crackdowns will be a good partner 
to cooperate with. 

My  second  call  is,  therefore,  to  the  Russian 
leadership,  to  whom  I  say:  You  face  a  choice.  Either 
you take a major part in the ongoing transformation of 
our common region, accepting that other countries are 
your  partners  and  not  vassals,  or  this  transformation 
will  happen  without  you. We  all  want  —  I  personally 
want — Russia as a great partner and not as an enemy. 
That  is  why  the  Georgian  Government  supports  the 
reset  policy  of  the  United  States  and  the  European 
Union’s engagement with Russia. Nobody has a greater 
stake than we have in seeing Russia turn into a country 
that  truly  operates  within  the  concert  of  nations, 
respects 
is  often 
connected — upholds basic human rights. 
I  want  to  tell  the  Russian  people  that  they  will 

always be welcome in Georgia, as tourists, as students, 
intense  cooperation  with 
law  and  — 
international 
this 
4 

10-54833 


as businessmen, as journalists or simply as friends, but 
never  as  occupation  forces.  And  I  want  to  tell  the 
Russian leaders that they should care more about their 
citizens and less about our diplomatic orientation, more 
about  developing  the  Northern  Caucasus  —  a  region 
that is exploding as I speak — than about undermining 
our  development.  They  are  welcome  to  come  too  if 
they  want,  in  order  to  understand  how  a  post-Soviet 
society can turn into a European one.  We invite them 
to come, with notebooks rather than with missiles, with 
iPads rather than Kalashnikovs. 

I  was  pleased  to  note  that  some  of  our  reforms 
inspired a few recent presidential speeches in Moscow. 
Instead of fighting each other, we should excel together 
in  modernizing  our  common  region.  And  instead  of 
secretly  copying  or  envying  our  reforms,  they  should 
cooperate with us in building a stable and free region, 
building stable and free countries. Because by looking 
over the best pupil’s shoulder one might not get the full 
picture  of  what  modernization  means.  The  complete 
picture is rather simple: lasting stability and prosperity 
cannot  be  achieved  without  respecting  some  basic 
principles. 

Modernization  without  freedom  is  not  sustainable. 
One  cannot  hope  to  diversify  and  develop  one’s 
economy  when  one  sends  one’s  most  talented  and 
successful  businessmen  to  the  Gulag,  as  happened  to 
Mikhail  Khodorkovsky.  Computers  are  not  enough 
without  free  minds  to  use  them.  So  let  us  free  our 
minds from our common Soviet past in order to build a 
common future. 

My third and final call is to every member of the 
international community: help us to secure peace — in 
Georgia, but also in our broader region. We Georgians 
have learned tragically how a so-called frozen conflict 
can very quickly become a hot one. 

If  there  is  clear  support  from  the  international 
community, I am convinced that a lasting peace can be 
secured  in  the  Caucasus.  I  am  convinced  that  if  the 
world  shows  the  same  commitment  to  a  peaceful 
resolution of conflicts in my region as in other parts of 
the  world  we  can  accomplish  wonders.  It  is  in 
everybody’s  interest  to  see  this  strategic  region,  this 
crossroads  of  civilizations,  become  more  stable, 
prosperous and open. 

that  wars  can  erupt 
quickly — but also that brave leaders can secure peace 
where  nobody  would  ever  believe  that  conflicts  could 
History  has 
taught  us 
A/65/PV.12
be  resolved.  History  has  taught  us  that  regions  that 
were  torn  apart  by  armed  conflicts  and  contaminated 
by hate — starting with Europe — can achieve lasting 
peace through cooperation, interdependence and unity. 
History  has  taught  us  that  dreams  are  often  more 
realistic than resignation. 

I  strongly  believe  that  a  common  market,  shared 
interests  and  political  and  economic  interdependence 
will  one  day  give  birth  to  a  united  Caucasus.  That  is 
what I call for today. 
We share a similar history of oppression, but we 

have also in common a deep, essential and undefeated 
aspiration  for  freedom.  Let  us  capitalize  on  this 
aspiration.  Our  region  will  never  be  truly  free  if  it  is 
not united. 

It will of course require a long and difficult series 
of efforts and gestures, from all of us, but the objective 
is worth every sacrifice. As happened a long time ago 
with the European Union — that amazing geopolitical 
revolution  we  aspire  to  join  one  day  —  the  historic 
move towards Caucasian unity will start with concrete 
projects, in the energy sector, in the education and the 
cultural fields and in the civil society sphere. 

We  should  begin  with  more  people-to-people 
exchanges.  It  is  time  we  got  to  know  each  other  and 
forged  links  that  will  bring  us  together  without 
changing existing inter-State borders. 

is 
inhabited  by  Caucasians  of  every  religion  and  every 
ethnicity.  Together  they  form  a  living  example  of 
tolerance and cooperation. So it is possible. We leaders 
have  to  learn  from  this  cohabitation  of  peoples  and 
translate it into geopolitics. 
Our  unity  would  not  be  directed  against  anyone. 

Once again, we will not aspire to change any borders. 
That needs to be emphasized. 

We  may  belong  to  different  States  and  ethnic 
groups,  and  live  on  different  sides  of  the  mountains, 
but  in  terms  of  human  and  cultural  space  there  is  no 
North and South Caucasus; there is only one Caucasus, 
which  belongs  to  world  civilization  and  Europe  and 
will  one  day  join  the  big  European  family  of  free 
nations, following the Georgian path. 

We,  the  Caucasians,  driven  by  legitimate  or 
imaginary threats of assimilation or attacks from other 
Powers,  or  from  each  other,  hoped  too  often  to  be 
town  and  our  capital,  Tbilisi, 
My  birth 
10-54833 

5 

A/65/PV.12 

protected  by  neighbouring  empires.  This  anxious 
search  for  foreign  shelter  led  us  to  subjugation, 
assimilation,  annexation  and  historical  tragedy.  It 
authorized foreign leaders to artificially emphasize and 
manipulate our divisions. 

We  —  Caucasian  people  —  all  made  the  same 
mistake through history. It is time to change. It is time 
to  stick  together,  to  help  each  other  to  survive  and 
progress.  It  is  time  to  understand  that  our  region  has 
sufficient resources and potential for all of us. It is time 
to  rely  on  ourselves,  on  the  human  potential  of  our 
citizens, on development of our own education system, 
and time to organize our own development. 

The  Caucasus  is  one  of  the  birthplaces  of  world 
civilization.  It  is  time  to  show  that  the  energy  of  our 
ancestors  does  not  belong  only  to  an  iconic  past,  and 
that we have something to give to our children and to 
the  world.  It  is  time  to  stop  fighting  and  weakening 
each  other  and  to  realize  that  our  strength  consists  in 
unity. It is time for unity  and peace. It  is time to stop 
being  prisoners  of  the  past  and  to  move  towards  our 
common future. 
In  the  past,  Georgian  citizens  perceived  our 

border with the Ottoman Empire as an absolute threat. 
Today,  we  have  passport-free  customs;  we  can  enter 
each  other’s  country  without  passports  and  visas.  We 
have  a  joint  airport  and  free  trade  with  Turkey,  and 
very  friendly  relations.  Tomorrow,  the  citizens  of 
Armenia  and  Azerbaijan  will  be  able  to  cross  our 
borders  without  passports.  Even  today  there  is  a  very 
simplified  procedure;  they  do  not  even  have  to  leave 
their cars. 

Recently,  a  foreign  diplomat  told  me  that  after 
crossing  our  only  legal  crossing  point  with  Russia  he 
encountered  dozens  of  roadblocks  where  dangerous-
looking,  unshaven  local  militiamen  and  FSB  agents 
kept  blocking  the  passage  from  one  valley  to  another, 
from  one  village  to  another,  aggressively  preventing 
individuals  from  circulating  in  their  own  country. 
There  is  also  talk  about  the  eventuality  of,  and 
preparation for, a new war with Georgia. 

It is time to replace those people, barbed wire and 
roadblocks by open borders and passport-free customs, 
to  replace  camps  for  internally  displaced  persons  by 
joint 
the 
Kalashnikov  by  computers,  and  to  replace  missiles  by 
books or television sets. 
schools  and  universities, 
replace 
to 



In  2008,  thousands  and  thousands  of  tanks, 
armoured  vehicles,  artillery  platforms,  troops  and 
militias  crossed  the  Caucasian  mountains,  bringing 
destruction,  death  and  hatred.  Now  it  is  time  for 
ideas —  the  ideas  of  freedom  and  unity  that  we  all 
cherish — to cross the same mountains, bringing hope, 
life and even love. 

As I speak, thousands of tanks, armoured vehicles 
and  missile  platforms  are  entrenched  or  moving  all 
across the Caucasus. If we remain on our own, isolated 
from  each  other,  they  surely  will  prevail.  But  if 
everybody  holds  his  neighbour’s  hand,  if  tens  of 
millions  of  unarmed  people  peacefully  stand  together, 
shoulder  to  shoulder,  being  the  continuation  of  each 
other, just like the Caucasian mountains, then no brutal 
force  will  ever  break  through  this  chain  of  awakened 
human spirits and this irresistible thirst for freedom. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of Georgia for 
the statement he has just made. 

  Mr.  Mikheil  Saakashvili,  President  of  Georgia, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, President 
of the Islamic Republic of Iran 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  hear 

an address by the President of the Islamic Republic of 
Iran. 

  Mr.  Mahmoud  Ahmadinejad,  President  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mahmoud  Ahmadinejad, 
President of the Islamic Republic of Iran, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly. 
President Ahmadinejad (spoke in Farsi; English 

the  delegation):  I  am 
interpretation  provided  by 
grateful  to  the Almighty  God  who  has  granted  me  the 
opportunity to appear before this world Assembly once 
again. 

I wish to begin by commemorating those who lost 
their  lives  in  the  horrible  flood  in  Pakistan  and 
expressing  my  heartfelt  sympathy  with  the  families 
who  lost  their  loved  ones,  as  well  as  with  the  people 
6 

10-54833 


and  the  Government  of  Pakistan.  I  urge  everyone  to 
assist their fellow men and women as a humane duty. 

Let  me  thank  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki,  who 
presided over the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth 
session,  for  all  his  efforts  during  his  tenure.  I  also 
congratulate  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss  on  being  elected  to 
preside  over  the  current  session,  and  wish  him  every 
success. 

In  past  years,  I  have  spoken  to  the  Assembly 
about  some  hopes  and  concerns;  some  concerns 
involve family crises, the security challenge, disrespect 
for  human  dignity,  the  deterioration  of  the  world 
economy,  climate  change  and  disregard  for  human 
aspirations to achieve justice and lasting peace. 
After  about  a  hundred  years  of  domination,  the 

capitalist  system  and  the  existing  world  order  have 
proved to be unable to provide appropriate solutions to 
the  problems  of  societies;  thus  their  demise  has  come 
about.  I  shall  try  to  examine  several  causes  of  this 
failure and picture features of an ideal order. 

The  first  cause  of  failure  relates  to  our  attitudes 
and beliefs. As the Assembly is well aware, the divine 
prophets  had 
to 
monotheism, love and justice and to show mankind the 
path  to  prosperity.  They  invite  men  to  contemplation 
and to seek knowledge in order to better appreciate the 
truth and to refrain from atheism and egoism. 
The essence of the message of all prophets is one 

and 
the 
the 
messenger before him, and gave glad tidings about the 
prophet  to  come,  who  presented  a  more  complete 
version  of  the  religion  in  accordance  with  man’s 
capacity at the time. This trend continued until the last 
messenger of God, who presented the perfection of an 
all-inclusive religion. 

In  opposition  to  the  call  by  the  prophets,  the 
egoist and the greedy stood up against their clear call, 
revolting  against  their  messages.  Nimrod  countered 
Hazrat Abraham, Pharaoh countered Hazrat Moses, and 
the  greedy  countered  Hazrat  Jesus  Christ  and  Hazrat 
Muhammad — may peace be upon all our prophets. 
In recent centuries, human ethics and values have 

been  rejected  as  a  cause  of  backwardness.  They  were 
even  portrayed  as  opposing  wisdom  and  science, 
because the proclaimers of religion in the dark ages of 
the  West  inflicted  man  with  backwardness.  Therefore, 
same.  Every  messenger  endorsed 
to  call  everyone 
the  mission 
A/65/PV.12
instinct, 
rather 
than  developing 
man’s  disconnection  from  heaven  has  detached  him 
from his true self. 

Man  —  with  his  potential  to  understand  the 
secrets  of  the  universe,  his  instinct  to  seek  truth,  his 
aspirations  for  justice  and  perfection,  his  quest  for 
beauty and purity, and his capacity to represent God on 
Earth  —  has  been  reduced  to  a  creature  restricted  by 
the  materialistic  world  with  a  mission  to  maximize 
individualistic  pleasures.  Human 
then, 
replaced true human nature. 
Human  beings  and  nations  are  considered  rivals, 

and the happiness of an individual or a nation is upheld 
at the cost of others, to the point of even eliminating or 
suppressing  others; 
a 
constructive and evolutionary method of cooperation, it 
was replaced by a destructive struggle for survival. The 
lust  for  capital  and  domination  replaced  monotheism, 
which is the gateway to love and unity. 
This  widespread  clash  of  the  egoist  with  the 

divine  values  gave  way  to  slavery  and  colonialism. A 
large part of the world came under the domination of a 
few  Western  States.  Tens  of  millions  of  people  were 
taken into slavery, and tens of millions of families were 
shattered  as  a  result. All  the  resources,  the  rights  and 
the  cultures  of  the  colonized  nations  were  plundered. 
Lands  were  occupied  and  the  indigenous  people  were 
humiliated and mass-murdered. 

Yet,  nations  rose  up,  colonialism  was  alienated, 
and the independence of nations was recognized. Thus, 
the  hope  for  respect,  prosperity  and  security  was 
revived  among  nations.  In  the  beginning  of  the  past 
century  beautiful  motives  of  freedom,  human  rights 
and  democracy  created  hopes  for  healing  the  deep 
wounds of the past. Today, however, not only are those 
dreams not realized, but memories, even at times more 
bitter than before, have been recorded in our history. 

As a result of the two World Wars, the occupation 
of  Palestine,  the  Korean  and  Viet  Nam  wars,  the  Iraq 
war  against  Iran,  the  occupation  of  Afghanistan  and 
Iraq,  as  well  as  many  wars  in  Africa,  hundreds  of 
millions  of  people  were  killed,  wounded  or  displaced. 
Terrorism,  illicit  drug  production,  poverty  and  social 
gaps  have  increased.  The  dictatorial  and  coups  d’état 
Governments 
committed 
unprecedented crimes, with the support of the West. 

Instead  of  disarmament,  the  proliferation  and 
stockpiling  of  nuclear,  biological  and  chemical 
Latin  America 
in 
10-54833 

7 

the 
and 
important 
system 
figures 
the  current 
footages  of 
One  can  analyse 
A/65/PV.12 

weapons  expanded,  putting  the  world  under  a  bigger 
threat.  As  a  result,  the  very  same  old  goals  of 
colonialists  and  the  slave  masters  were  pursued,  but 
this time around with a new façade. 

The  second  cause  of  the  failure  of  the  existing 
world  order  and  capitalism  has  to  do  with  the  current 
global  management  and  its  ruling  structures.  The 
League  of  Nations  and  then  the  United  Nations  were 
established  with  the  promise  of  bringing  about  peace, 
security  and  the  realization  of  human  rights,  which  in 
fact meant a global management. 

for 
governance of world affairs by examining three events. 

The  first  event  is  that  of  11  September  2001, 
which  has  affected  the  whole  world  for  almost  a 
decade. We recall that at the time suddenly the news of 
an  attack  on  the  Twin  Towers  was  broadcast  using 
incident.  Almost  all 
numerous 
Governments 
strongly 
condemned  this  incident.  But  then  a  propaganda 
machine  came  into  full  force;  it  was  implied  that  the 
whole  world  was  now  exposed  to  a  huge  danger  — 
terrorism  —  and  that  the  only  way  to  save  the  world 
was  to  deploy  forces  into  Afghanistan.  Eventually 
Afghanistan and shortly thereafter Iraq were occupied. 
I  ask  the  Assembly  please  to  take  note:  It  was 

said 
that 
some  3,000  people  were  killed  on 
11 September, for which we are all very saddened. Yet 
so far in Afghanistan and Iraq hundreds of thousands of 
people  have  been  killed,  while  millions  have  been 
wounded  and  displaced,  and  the  conflict  is  still  going 
on and expanding. 

the 
11 September attack, there were three viewpoints. The 
first  was  that  a  very  powerful  and  complex  terrorist 
group, able to successfully cross all layers of American 
intelligence and security, carried out the attack. That is 
the  prevalent  viewpoint  advocated  by  American 
statesmen. 

The  second  viewpoint  was  that  some  segments 
within  the  United  States  Government  orchestrated  the 
attack to reverse the declining American economy and 
its  grip  on  the  Middle  East  in  order  also  to  save  the 
Zionist regime. The majority of the American people as 
well  as other  nations  and politicians around the world 
agree with this view. 
responsible 
identifying 
In 
those 
for 
identify 
to  conclusively 
the  viewpoint  of 
Secondly,  assuming 
this  viewpoint  has 
Regardless  of  each  of  those  three  viewpoints, 

The  third  viewpoint  was  that  the  attack  was 
carried out by a terrorist group, but that the American 
Government  supported  and  took  advantage  of  the 
situation.  Apparently, 
fewer 
proponents. 

The  main  evidence  for  that  viewpoint  links  the 
incident  to  a  few  passports  found  in  the  huge  volume 
of rubble and a video of an individual whose place of 
domicile  was  unknown,  but  it  was  announced  that  he 
had  been  involved  in  oil  deals  with  some  American 
officials. It was also covered up and said that due to the 
explosion  and  fire  no  trace  of  suicide  attackers  was 
found. 

there remain a few questions to be answered. 

First, would it not have been sensible that first a 
thorough investigation should have been conducted by 
independent  groups 
the 
elements  involved  in  the  attack  and  then  map  out  a 
rational plan to take measures against them? 

the 
American Government, is it rational to launch a classic 
war through widespread deployment of troops that led 
to  the  death  of  hundreds  of  thousands  of  people  to 
counter a terrorist group? 

Thirdly,  was  it  not  possible  to  act  in  the  way  in 
which Iran conducted the operations fighting the Riggi 
terrorist  group,  who  killed  and  wounded  400  innocent 
people?  In  the  Iranian  operation  no  innocent  person 
was harmed. 

It  is  proposed  that  the  United  Nations  set  up  an 
independent  fact-finding  group  in  regard  to  the  event 
of  11  September  to  ensure  that  the  different  views 
about it are not banned from future discussions. 

I wish to announce here that next year the Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  will  host  a  conference  to  study 
terrorism  and  the  means  to  confront  it.  I  invite 
officials,  scholars,  thinkers,  researchers  and  research 
institutes of all countries to attend the conference. 

The  second  cause  of  the  demise  of  the  existing 
world  order  is  the  occupation  of  the  Palestinian 
territories.  The  oppressed  people  of  Palestine  have 
lived  under  the  rule  of  an  occupying  regime  for 
60 years, and have been deprived of freedom, security 
and the right to self-determination, while the occupiers 
are  given  recognition.  On  a  daily  basis,  houses  are 
8 

10-54833 
to  announce 


being destroyed over the heads of innocent women and 
children.  People  are  deprived  of  water,  food  and 
medicine in their own homeland. 

The  Zionists  have  imposed  five  all-out  wars  on 
the  neighbouring  countries  and  on  the  Palestinian 
people.  The  Zionists  committed  the  most  horrible 
crimes  against  defenceless  people  in  the  wars  against 
Lebanon  and  Gaza.  The  Zionist  regime  attacked  a 
humanitarian  flotilla  in  a  blatant  defiance  of  all 
international  norms  and  killed  civilians.  This  regime, 
which  enjoys  the  absolute  support  of  some  Western 
countries,  regularly  threatens  the  countries  in  the 
region  and  continues  publicly 
the 
assassination  of  Palestinian  figures,  while  Palestinian 
defenders and those opposing the regime are pressured, 
labelled  as  terrorists  and  called  anti-Semites.  All 
values, even the freedom of expression, which seem to 
matter so much in Europe and in the United States, and 
to be so important, have been sacrificed at the altar of 
Zionism. 

Solutions are doomed to fail because the right of 
the Palestinian people is not taken into account. Would 
we have witnessed such horrendous crimes if instead of 
the occupation being recognized, the sovereign right of 
the Palestinian people had been recognized? 

Our  unambiguous  proposition  favours  the  return 
of  the  Palestinian  refugees  to  their  home  land  and  a 
vote  by  the  people  of  Palestine,  all  Palestinians,  to 
exercise  their  sovereignty  and  decide  on  their  type  of 
governance. 
The  third  cause  of  the  demise  of  the  existing 

order  has  to  do  with  the  outlook  on  nuclear  energy. 
Nuclear energy is clean and cheap and a heavenly gift 
which  is  among  the  most  suitable  alternatives  to  cut 
pollution 
fuels.  The 
Non-Proliferation  Treaty  (NPT)  allows  all  States 
parties  to  use  nuclear  energy  without  limits,  and  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
is 
mandated  to  provide  such  States  with  technical  and 
legal support. 

The nuclear bomb is the worst inhumane weapon, 
and  must  be  totally  eliminated.  The  NPT  prohibits  its 
development  and  stockpiling,  and  calls  for  nuclear 
disarmament.  Nonetheless,  some  permanent  members 
of  the  Security  Council  and  other  nuclear  Powers  — 
those that possess the nuclear bomb — have resorted to 
the  following  measure.  They  have  equated  nuclear 
energy with the nuclear bomb, and have removed such 
emanating 
from 
fossil 
(IAEA) 
10-54833 

A/65/PV.12
energy from the reach of  most nations  by establishing 
monopolies  and  pressuring  IAEA.  At  the  same  time, 
they  have  continued  to  maintain,  expand  and  upgrade 
their  own  nuclear  arsenals.  The  Assembly  may  have 
heard  that  in  the  current  year  the  United  States 
Administration has asked for $80 billion to maintain its 
nuclear bombs. 

The  situation  that  I  have  described  has  entailed 
the  following:  Not  only  has  nuclear  disarmament  not 
been realized, but also nuclear bombs have proliferated 
in  some  regions,  including  by  the  occupying  and 
intimidating  Zionist  regime.  Here  I  would  like  to 
propose  that  2011  be  proclaimed  the  year  of  nuclear 
disarmament  and  nuclear  energy  for  all,  nuclear 
weapons for none. 

In all the cases to which I have referred, I admit, 
the  United  Nations  has  been  unable  to  take  any 
effective, viable course of action. Unfortunately, in the 
decade proclaimed as the “International Decade for the 
Culture  of  Peace”  hundreds  of  thousands  have  been 
killed  and  injured  as  a  result  of  war,  aggression  and 
occupation,  and  hostilities  and  antagonism  have 
increased. 

Very  recently  the  world  witnessed  an  abhorrent 
and inhumane act of burning the Holy Koran. The Holy 
Koran is the Divine Book and the eternal miracle of the 
Prophet of Islam. It calls for worshipping the One God, 
justice,  compassion  towards  people,  development  and 
progress,  reflection  and 
the 
oppressed  and  resistance  against  oppressors;  and  it 
names  with  respect  the  previous  Messengers  of  God, 
such  as  Noah,  Abraham,  Isaac,  Joseph,  Moses  and 
Jesus Christ — may peace be upon all the prophets — 
and endorses them. The Koran was burned to burn  all 
those truths and good judgements. 

However, the truth cannot  be burned. The Koran 
is eternal, because God and truth are everlasting. This 
act and any other act that widens the gap and distances 
between  nations  is  evil.  We  should  wisely  avoid 
playing  into  the  hands  of  Satan.  On  behalf  of  the 
Iranian  nation,  I  pay  respect  to  all  divine  books  and 
their followers. In one hand I hold up the Koran and in 
the  other  the  Bible.  We  pay  respect  to  both  books,  as 
both are dear to us. 

For  years  the  inefficiency  of  capitalism  and  the 
existing  world  management  structures  have  been 
exposed  enough for us to  understand what they mean. 
The majority of States and peoples have begun a quest 
thought,  defence  of 
9 
is 
In 
The  United  Nations 
the  past  several  decades,  at 
A/65/PV.12 

for fundamental changes and to allow justice in global 
relations to prevail. 

The cause of the United Nations ineptitude is its 
unjust  structure.  Major  Powers  have  monopolized  the 
Security  Council,  due  to  their  veto  privilege,  and 
sidelined  the  General  Assembly,  which  is  the  main 
pillar of the Organization. 

least  one 
permanent member of the Security Council has always 
been a party to a conflict. When both the judge and the 
prosecutor are on the same side of a conflict, how can 
one  expect  justice?  They  feel  immune  in  aggression 
owing  to  the  structure  of  the  United  Nations.  For 
example, if Iran enjoyed the veto privilege, would the 
Security Council and the IAEA Director General have 
taken the same position on the nuclear issue? 

the  key  centre  for 
coordinating common global management. Its structure 
needs  to  be  reformed  in  such  a  manner  that  all 
independent States and nations may participate actively 
and constructively in global governance. 

The  veto  privilege  should  be  revoked.  The 
General Assembly should be the highest body, and the 
Secretary-General  should  be  the  most  independent 
official  and  all  his  positions  and  activities  should  be 
taken  with  the  approval  of  the  General Assembly  and 
should  be  directed  towards  promoting  justice  and 
eliminating discrimination in the world order. 

The  Secretary-General  should  not  come  under 
pressure  from  Powers  and/or  the  country  hosting  the 
Organization  for  stating  the  truth  and  administering 
justice.  It  is  proposed  that  the  General  Assembly 
should,  within  a  year  and  in  the  framework  of  an 
extraordinary  session,  finalize  the  reformation  of  the 
Organization’s structure. The  Islamic Republic of  Iran 
has clear suggestions in this regard and stands ready to 
participate actively and constructively in the process. 

I  announce  clearly  that  the  occupation  of  other 
countries under the pretext of freedom and democracy 
is an unforgivable crime. The world needs the logic of 
compassion  and  justice  and  inclusive  participation 
instead of the logic of force, domination, unilateralism, 
war  and  humiliation. The  world  needs  to  be  governed 
by virtuous people like the Divine Prophets. 

The two vast geographical spheres of Africa  and 
Latin America have experienced historic developments 
during  past  decades,  developments  that  have  changed 

the 
their face. The new approaches in these two continents, 
based on an increasing level of integration and unity, as 
well  as  on  localizing  the  growth  and  development 
models, have borne considerable fruits for the peoples 
of  those  regions.  The  awareness  and  wisdom  of  the 
leaders  of  the  two  continents  have  overcome  the 
regional  problems  and  crises,  free  of  the  domineering 
interference of non-regional Powers. 

The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  has  expanded  its 
relations  with  Latin America  and Africa  in  all  aspects 
in recent years. 

And  now  I  speak  about  the  glorious  Iran.  The 
Tehran  Declaration  was  a  hugely  constructive  step  in 
confidence-building  efforts,  a  step  made  possible 
through the admirable good will of the Governments of 
Brazil  and  Turkey,  along  with  the  close,  sincere  and 
honest  cooperation  of 
Iranian  Government. 
Although  there  was  an  inappropriate  reaction  to  the 
Declaration  by  some  Western  Powers,  and  it  was 
followed by an unlawful resolution, it is still valid. 

We  have  observed  the  IAEA  regulations  beyond 
the  requirements  of  our  commitments,  yet  we  have 
never submitted to illegally imposed pressures, nor will 
we ever do so. 

It has been said that there is a desire to pressure 
Iran  into  a  dialogue. Well,  first,  Iran  has  always  been 
ready  for  a  dialogue  based  on  respect  and  justice. 
Secondly, methods based on disrespecting nations have 
long  been 
ineffective.  Those  who  have  used 
intimidation  and  sanctions  in  response  to  the  clear 
logic of the Iranian nation are in real terms destroying 
the  remaining  credibility  of  the  Security  Council  and 
the trust of nations in it, proving once again how unjust 
is the Council’s function. 

When  those  concerned  threaten  a  great  nation,  a 
great  people,  such  as  Iran,  which  has  been  known 
throughout  history  for  its  scientists,  poets,  artists  and 
philosophers,  and  whose  culture  and  civilization  are 
synonymous  with  purity,  submission  to  God  and 
seeking justice, how can they ever expect other nations 
to have confidence in them? 

that  domineering 
methods — and mainly capitalism — in managing the 
world have failed. Not only has the era of slavery and 
colonialism and dominating the world passed, the path 
to reviving old Empires is blocked, too. 
It  goes  without 
saying 
10 

10-54833 
thoughts  and 



We  have  announced  that  we  stand  ready  for  a 
serious and free debate with the American statesmen in 
this  very  venue  to  express  our  transparent  views  on 
issues  of  importance  to  the  world.  It  is  proposed  here 
that in order to have a constructive dialogue, an annual 
free debate be organized within the General Assembly. 

In conclusion, the Iranian nation and the majority 
of the world’s nations and Governments are opposed to 
the  current  discriminatory  management  of  the  world. 
The inhumane nature of that management has led it to a 
dead end, and it requires a major overhaul. 

Reforming the world’s affairs and bringing about 
tranquillity and prosperity requires the participation of 
all,  pure 
the  divine  and  humane 
management that we have been given. We are all of the 
view that justice is the basic element for peace, durable 
security  and  the  spread  of  love  among  peoples  and 
nations.  It  is  in  justice  that  mankind  seeks  the 
realization  of  his  aspirations,  rights  and  dignity,  since 
he is wary of oppression, humiliation and ill-treatment. 

The true nature of mankind is manifested in love 
for  fellow  humans  and  love  for  all  the  good  in  the 
world.  Love  is  the  best  foundation  for  establishing 
relations among people and among nations. As Vahshi 
Bafgi, the great Iranian poet, says, “From the fountain 
of  youth,  drink  a  thousand  sips/You’ll  still  die  if  you 
don’t  have  love’s  grip”.  In  making  a  world  full  of 
purity, safety and prosperity, people are not rivals, but 
companions. Those who see their happiness only in the 
sorrow  of  others  and  their  welfare  and  safety  only  in 
others’ insecurity, those who see themselves as superior 
to  others,  are  out  of  the  path  of  humanity  and  are  in 
evil’s course. 
Economy  and  materialistic  means  are  only  some 

to  serve  others, 
to  create  friendship  and 
tools 
strengthen  human  connections  for  spiritual  perfection. 
They  are  not  tools  for  showing  off  or  means  of 
dominating others. 
Men and women complement each other, and the 

family unit, with pure, loving and long-lasting relations 
of the spouses, becomes the centre and the guarantee of 
the continuity and bringing up of generations, for true 
pleasures,  for  spreading  true  love  and  for  reforming 
society. 

Woman  is  a  reflection  of  God’s  beauty  and  the 
source  of  love  and  care.  She  is  the  guardian  of  purity 
and  exquisiteness  of  society. The  tendency  to  toughen 
A/65/PV.12
the  souls  and  behaviours  of  women  deprives  them  of 
their  very  basic  right  of  being  a  loving  mother  and  a 
caring wife. It will result in a more violent society with 
irreversible defects. 

Freedom is a divine right that should serve peace 
and  human  perfection.  Pure  thoughts  and  the  will  of 
the righteous are keys to the gates of a pure life full of 
hope,  liveliness  and  beauty.  This  is  the  promise  of 
God — that the Earth will be inherited by the pure and 
the righteous. And the people free from selfishness will 
take up the management of the world. Then there will 
be  no 
trace  of  sorrow,  discrimination,  poverty, 
insecurity and aggression. The time for true happiness 
and  the  blossoming  of  the  true  nature  of  humankind, 
the way God has intended, will arrive. 

All  those  seeking  justice  and  all  the  free  spirits 
have  been  waiting  for  this  moment  and  have  been 
promised  such  a  glorious  time.  The  complete  human, 
the true servant of God and the true friend of mankind, 
whose  father  was  from  the  generation  of  the  beloved 
Prophet of Islam and whose mother was from the true 
believers  of  Jesus  Christ,  shall  wait  along  with  Jesus, 
the  son  of  Mary,  and  the  other  righteous  to  appear  on 
those brilliant days and assist humanity. In welcoming 
them, we should join ranks and seek justice, as would 
be befitting of man. 

Praise  to  love  and  worship,  praise  to  justice  and 
freedom, praise to true humanity, the complete human, 
the  true  companion  of  humankind.  I  say  to  all  those 
listening: “Peace be upon you and all the righteous and 
the pure.” 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Islamic 
Republic of Iran for the statement he has just made. 
Mr.  Mahmoud  Ahmadinejad,  President  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


Address by His Excellency Mr. Ivan Gašparovič, 
President of the Slovak Republic 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Slovak 
Republic. 
Mr.  Ivan  Gašparovič,  President  of  the  Slovak 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
10-54833 

11 

in  one  voice  at 
A/65/PV.12 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Ivan Gašparovič, President 
of the Slovak Republic, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly. 
President Gašparovič (spoke in Slovak; English 

interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  Let  me 
congratulate  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss  on  his  election  to 
preside  over  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth 
session. May the United Nations, under his leadership, 
confirm  its  central  role  in  global  events.  Slovakia 
stands  prepared  to  support  him.  I  also  appreciate  the 
work done by his predecessor at the previous session. 

The  Slovak  Republic  fully  aligns  itself  with  the 
European  Union’s  statements.  We  are  pleased  that  27 
European  member  States,  plus  other  associated 
countries,  speak 
this  universal 
international forum. This is a good prerequisite to clear 
the  way  for  widely  anticipated  effective  cooperation 
between the Union and the United Nations. 

Let  me  now  share  with  the  Assembly  several 
remarks on certain global and regional issues from the 
perspective of the Slovak foreign policy priorities. 

The  foreign  policy  of  Slovakia,  as  a  United 
Nations  member,  is  based  on  respect  for  the  core 
democratic  values,  international  law  and  effective 
multilateralism. We therefore welcome and support the 
main theme of the sixty-fifth session: “Reaffirming the 
central 
in  global 
governance”. This topic is all the more important since 
we  often  witness  failure  to  respect  binding  decisions 
taken by United Nations bodies, and from time to time 
even among the various United Nations institutions. 

One of the most important missions of the United 
Nations  is  to  act  as  a  guarantor  of  the  formulation, 
protection  and  implementation  of  the  principle  of 
collective security of States. Hence, the preservation of 
international  peace  and  security  at  a  global  level  and 
within  the  bounds  of  international  law  must  remain  at 
the  core  of  United  Nations  activities.  For  peace  and 
security  become  particularly  vulnerable  in  times  of 
global  financial  and  economic  crises.  They  require 
increased attention on our part in order to remain under 
the control of States and the international community. 

The  process  of  arms  control  and  disarmament 
represents  the  most  important  instrument  for  the 
prevention  of  war  and  other  conflict.  The  progress 
the  United  Nations 
role  of 
the 
trade 
reason 
We  appreciate 
important  role  played  by 
achieved in the area of non-proliferation of weapons of 
mass  destruction  gives  us 
for  cautious 
optimism.  Our  duty  is  to  continue  the  effort  and  to 
strengthen  the  global  system  of  non-proliferation  of 
weapons  of  mass  destruction.  Yet  the  risk  of  such 
weapons  falling  into  the  hands  of  terrorists  remains 
high.  We  are  also  prepared  to  cooperate  with  our 
partners  on  a  number  of  priorities,  such  as  the  entry 
into  force  of  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty. 

the  new  post-START  Treaty 
between the Russian Federation and the United States. 
We  believe  that  the Treaty  will  invigorate  the  process 
of  disarmament,  which  is  getting  off  the  ground,  and 
increase pressure on certain States to desist from their 
ambitions to own nuclear weapons. In particular, I wish 
to  underscore 
the 
Conference on Disarmament, which is described as the 
sole multilateral disarmament negotiating forum. 

In  the  area  of  conventional  weapons,  it  is 
necessary  to  continue  negotiations  leading  to  the 
adoption  of  a  new,  effective  arms 
treaty. 
Adequate attention must also be paid to small arms, the 
uncontrolled  spread  of  which  may  have  devastating 
consequences  for 
the  maintenance  of  peace  and 
security, particularly in conflict areas. 

operations 
represent  one  of  the  most  visible  activities  of  the 
United  Nations  in  its  efforts  to  preserve  peace  and 
security in the world. Slovakia, as an active contributor 
to  United  Nations  missions  and  other  international 
crisis  management  operations  based  on  a  United 
Nations mandate, welcomes the steps towards reviving 
the reform of peacekeeping operations  as described in 
the document “ A New Partnership Agenda: Charting a 
New Horizon for UN Peacekeeping”. 

I  believe  that  the  new  Global  Field  Support 
Strategy will contribute, in real terms, towards a more 
rapid deployment of peacekeeping missions and, at the 
same time, ensure a more efficient utilization of human 
and financial resources. 

Proper  coordination  between  the  United  Nations 
and  regional  organizations  plays  an  important  role. 
There  is  room  for  improvement,  for  example,  when  it 
comes to cooperation between the EU and NATO at the 
operational 
level,  but  also  for  a  more  effective 
coordination at strategic level. 
United  Nations 
peacekeeping 
12 

10-54833 
this 
the  usefulness  of 



The  United  Nations  must  also  play  a  key  role  in 
the  prevention  of  conflicts.  Slovakia  supports  the 
prevention  and  mediation  role  of  the  United  Nations 
and  its  capacity-building.  It  is,  however,  necessary  to 
exert  synergic  efforts  taking  due  account  of  the 
interests  of  all  stakeholders  at  the  local,  regional  and 
global  levels  in  order  to  eliminate  sources  of  conflict 
and proceed directly with establishing peace. 

The establishment of the United Nations Regional 
Centre  for  Preventive  Diplomacy  for  Central  Asia, 
which  is  headed  by  a  Slovak  diplomat,  was  a  step  in 
the  right  direction.  The  recent  events  in  Kyrgyzstan 
confirmed 
instrument  and 
underscored the need to support it further. 

Slovakia takes an active part in peace  processes. 
Since  our  non-permanent  membership  in  the  Security 
Council  in  2006  and  2007,  we  have  continued  our 
involvement in security sector reform. We are glad that 
since then several strategic papers have been produced 
and  that  progress  has  been  made  in  building  the 
requisite  capacities,  particularly  in  cooperation  with 
African countries. 
As  the  chair  of  the  Group  of  Friends  of  security 

sector  reform,  we  continue  to  actively  work  towards 
strengthening  the  relations  in  this  matter  between 
Member States and the Secretariat. In the course of the 
sixty-fourth  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  we 
teamed  up  with  our  partners  from  Argentina  and 
Indonesia  to  hold  regional  workshops  dealing  with 
security  sector  reform  in  the  broader  context  of 
preserving  and  building  peace  and,  at  the  same  time, 
establishing  a  link  between  its  global  and  regional 
aspects.  We  are  determined  to  uphold  this  effort  in 
cooperation  with  the  Inter-agency  Task  Force  on 
Security Sector Reform, as well as with other Member 
States and subregional organizations. 

Under the Charter, the primary responsibility for 
international  peace  and  security  lies  with  the  Security 
Council.  The  process  of  its  reform  could  almost  be 
called  a  never-ending  story.  We  are  therefore  pleased 
that  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security 
Council  reform  were  given  a  clearer  shape.  It  must 
stand  on  the  following  pillars:  representativeness, 
effectiveness in fulfilling its mission and transparency 
of  its  working  methods,  while  allowing  for  possible 
enforcement of its decisions by sanctions. 
The global financial and economic crisis laid bare 

the  weak  spots  in  the  existing  structures  of  the  world 
A/65/PV.12
At 
Everyday 
the  quality  of 
education, 
life  also  shows  us 
the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on 
economic  order.  The  key  role  of  the  United  Nations 
and  its  Member  States  must  also  be  confirmed  in  this 
financial and economic dimension at the global level. 

the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  we  shared  the  view 
that  since  our  efforts  in  achieving  these  Goals  started 
some 10 years ago they had not become less topical or 
less 
important.  Eradicating  poverty  and  hunger, 
improving 
adequate 
employment, 
improving  health-care  services  and 
housing,  improving  maternal  health,  gender  equality 
and  environmental  sustainability  remain  among  the 
central concerns of United Nations programmes, funds 
and specialized agencies. 

that  creating 
conditions  for  equitable  and  sustainable  development 
must  go  hand  in  hand  with  respect  for  nature  and  its 
rules.  There  is  an  inherent  link  between  the  two,  and 
both have an impact on the life of individuals, who are 
part of the universal system. 

The  people  of  Slovakia  had  the  misfortune  to 
witness  nature’s  power  as  floods  of  an  unprecedented 
scale ravaged our country earlier this summer. A proper 
balance  must  be  struck  between  development  and 
respect  for  nature,  based  on  well-reasoned  arguments 
supported  by  proper  analysis,  and  without  giving  way 
to  the  influence  sought  by  certain  narrowly  focused 
transnational  organizations 
themselves 
environmentalists. 

For the first time this year, Slovakia took part in 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council  meetings  as  a 
member.  Our  experience  shows  that  we  need  to 
strengthen the links between the Economic and Social 
Council and other organizations of the United Nations 
system  and  beyond,  provided  they  work  towards  the 
same objectives. 

of 
UN Women  —  the  United  Nations  Entity  for  Gender 
Equality and Empowerment of Women. We believe that 
this entity will help curb all forms of violence against 
women.  We  also  extend  our  good  wishes  for  a 
successful  mandate  to  the  Secretary-General’s  Special 
Representative on Sexual Violence in Conflict. 
Slovakia rejects any and all forms of intolerance, 

xenophobia,  discrimination, 
racism  and  extreme 
nationalism.  We  are  devoted  to  the  protection  of  and 
support  for  human  rights  at  both  the  national  and 
Slovakia  welcomes 
establishment 
that 
call 
the 
10-54833 

13 

the  situation  and 
Slovakia  closely  watches 
A/65/PV.12 

international  level.  We  play  a  leading  role  in  the 
interregional initiative aimed at the adoption of a new 
optional  protocol  to  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of 
the Child. 

Slovakia fully supports the fight to end impunity 
for  the  perpetrators  of  the  most  serious  crimes  under 
international  law,  such  as  genocide,  war  crimes  and 
crimes  against  humanity.  As  a  facilitator  for  the 
universality and implementation of the Rome Statute of 
the  International  Criminal  Court,  we  actively  work 
towards increasing the number of States Parties to the 
Rome Statute and towards its proper implementation. 

problems in individual regions of the world. 
The long-term effort to reach lasting peace in the 

Middle East has failed to yield the expected results. At 
this  stage,  we  appreciate  the  contributions  of  all 
facilitators involved in reconciling the demands of both 
sides  by  way  of  direct  Israeli-Palestinian  talks  that 
were  launched  recently.  We  are  hopeful  that  the 
Palestinian  and  Israeli  leaders  will  find  a  way  of 
coming  to  an  agreement  that  will  lay  down  the  final 
arrangement of their mutual relations. This is necessary 
for world peace. 

Africa,  as the most troubled continent, continues 
to  call  for  special  attention  by  the  international 
community.  We  need  to  address  the  origin  and  the 
essence  of  the  problems,  not  only  their  consequences. 
On  the  other  hand,  we  are  pleased  to  see  the  progress 
made in the stabilization and development of countries 
such as Ghana, Benin, Togo, Mauritius and others. 

As members of the United Nations, we all have to 
support  respect  for  the  binding  nature  of  Security 
Council  resolutions  —  particularly  when  it  comes  to 
preserving peace around the globe. For this reason, we 
support  diplomatic  negotiations  on  the  Iran  issue,  as 
well as on the situation on the Korean peninsula, which 
is a matter of concern. 
Slovakia welcomed the conclusions of the Kabul 

International  Conference 
on  Afghanistan.  The 
Conference  marked  a  new  phase  of  partnership 
between the Afghan Government  and the international 
community,  based  on  the  principle  of  a  gradual 
Afghanistanization of the country, that is, the transition 
to  full  Afghan  leadership  and  responsibility  to  be 
achieved  in  the  Kabul  Process.  Slovakia  will  continue 
to  participate  in  the  stabilization  and  development  of 


and 
training 
and 
operations 
Afghanistan  by  contributing  to  NATO-  and  EU-led 
stabilization 
by 
implementing  humanitarian  and  development  aid 
projects. 

Slovakia  remains  a  staunch  supporter  of  a 
peaceful and just settlement of the Cyprus issue under 
the  auspices  of  the  Secretary-General.  More  than 
20 years  of  our  support  for  negotiations  and  the 
continued  involvement,  since  2001,  of  the  largest 
contingent  of  the  Slovak  armed  forces  in  the  United 
Nations  Peacekeeping  Force  in  Cyprus  within  the 
United  Nations  crisis  management  operations,  bear 
witness to our engagement in this respect. 

As  for  the  Western  Balkans,  we  are  looking  to 
strengthen  stability  and  support  democratic  processes. 
We wish for the European integration processes of the 
Western  Balkan  countries  to  move  forward.  We  also 
wish  for  the  Balkans  to  see  peace  agreements  and  not 
imposed solutions. 

The  United  Nations  must  be  able  to  effectively 
respond  to  the  current  challenges  of  the  twenty-first 
century.  This  calls  for  synergies  across  all  United 
Nations  bodies,  programmes,  funds  and  specialized 
agencies.  But,  more  importantly,  since  Member  States 
determine  their  activities  and  their  direction,  we  need 
to  build  synergies  among  us.  The  people  of  our 
countries are looking to see positive results. 

the  Assembly 
President’s  leadership,  the  United  Nations  will  make 
great strides in advancing its cause. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Slovak 
Republic for the statement he has just made. 

  Mr.  Ivan  Gašparovič,  President  of  the  Slovak 
Republic,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
I  am  confident 
that,  under 
from 
Address by His Majesty King Abdullah II Bin 
Al Hussein, Head of State of the Hashemite Kingdom 
of Jordan 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  hear 

an  address  by  the  Head  of  State  of  the  Hashemite 
Kingdom of Jordan. 

14 

10-54833 




  His  Majesty  King  Abdullah  II  Bin  Al  Hussein, 
Head  of  State  of  the  Hashemite  Kingdom  of 
Jordan,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Majesty King Abdullah II Bin Al Hussein, 
Head  of  State  of  the  Hashemite  Kingdom  of  Jordan, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
King  Abdullah:  More  than  ever  before,  our 

world  is  confronting  multiple  global  crises  which 
cannot be effectively addressed without a coordinated, 
multilateral  action.  No  country  can  face  these  crises 
and  provide  for  its  future  in  isolation. The  threats  are 
global,  and  so  are  the  solutions. A  strong,  central  role 
for the United Nations is essential. 

It is also essential to resist forces of division that 
spread  misunderstanding  and  mistrust,  especially 
among  peoples  of  different  religions.  The  fact  is  that 
humanity  everywhere  is  bound  together,  not  only  by 
mutual interests, but by shared commandments: to love 
God and neighbour; to love the good and neighbour. 

This week, my delegation, with the support of our 
friends  on  every  continent,  will  introduce  a  draft 
resolution  for  an  annual  World  Interfaith  Harmony 
Week. What we propose is a special week during which 
the  world’s  people,  in  their  own  places  of  worship, 
could  express  the  teachings  of  their  own  faith  about 
tolerance, respect for the other, and peace. I hope that 
the draft resolution will have the Assembly’s support. 

for  United  Nations 
leadership  is  peace  —  and  one  peace  hangs  in  the 
balance  today.  With  direct  negotiations  between  the 
Palestinians  and  the  Israelis,  a  door  opens  to  a  final, 
two-State settlement of the Palestinian-Israeli conflict. 
And  the  establishment  of  an  independent,  viable  and 
sovereign  Palestinian  State,  living  side  by  side  with 
Israel, will pave the way for a comprehensive regional 
peace. An end to this conflict is long overdue. 

No  regional  crisis  has  had  a  longer  or  broader 
impact  on  global  security  and  stability.  No  such  crisis 
has  been  longer  on  the  United  Nations  agenda,  or  has 
frustrated  peacemakers  more.  Every  resource  spent  in 
this conflict is a resource lost for investing in progress 
and prosperity. Every day spent is a day lost to forces 
of violence and extremism that threaten all of us in the 
region and beyond. 
Another  critical  area 
A/65/PV.12

People  are  wary  of  disappointment,  and  spoilers 
are  doing  everything  they  can  to  make  us  fail.  We 
cannot underestimate the importance of success, or the 
painful cost of failure. All of us need to support swift 
action, hard choices and real results. The alternative is 
more suffering and deeper frustrations, with spreading, 
more-vicious warfare. Such a catastrophic scenario will 
continue  to  drag  in  the  whole  world,  threatening 
security  and  stability  far  beyond  the  borders  of  the 
Middle  East.  To  prevent  that,  the  talks  must  be 
approached with commitment, sincerity and courage. 

There  should  be  no  provocative  or  unilateral 
actions  that  can  derail  the  negotiations.  Instead,  the 
parties must work hard to produce results, and quickly. 
That  means  addressing  all  final-status  issues,  with  a 
view  to  ending  the  occupation  and  reaching  the  two-
State solution, the only solution that can work, as soon 
as  possible.  The  status  quo  is  simply  unacceptable  — 
enough injustice, enough bloodshed. 

Jordan and the rest of the Arab and Muslim world 
are  committed.  In  the Arab  Peace  Initiative,  we  reach 
out  to  Israel  with  an  unprecedented  opportunity  for  a 
comprehensive settlement, a settlement that will enable 
Israel  to  have  normal  relations  with  57  Arab  and 
Muslim  States,  one  third  of  the  United  Nations.  Now 
we  reach  out  to  our  fellow  members  of  this  United 
Nations. All stand to lose if the talks fail; all gain when 
peace is achieved. Our global and collective influence 
is key. Together we must tip the balance towards peace. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Head  of  State  of  the 
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan for the statement he has 
just made. 

  His  Majesty  King  Abdullah  II  Bin  Al  Hussein, 
Head  of  State  of  the  Hashemite  Kingdom  of 
Jordan,  was  escorted  from  the  General Assembly 
Hall. 

Address by Mr. Joseph Kabila Kabange, President of 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  hear 

an address by the President of the Democratic Republic 
of the Congo. 

  Mr.  Joseph  Kabila  Kabange,  President  of  the 
Democratic Republic of  the  Congo, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall. 



10-54833 

15 

to 
independence.  This 
A/65/PV.12 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Joseph  Kabila  Kabange, 
President  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Kabila  Kabange  (spoke  in  French):  I 

begin  by  congratulating  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss  on  his 
election  to  preside  over  the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the 
General  Assembly,  and  I  also  congratulate  his  entire 
Bureau  on  their  election.  I  also  congratulate  the 
President’s predecessor, Mr. Ali Treki, on the devotion 
and  skill  with  which  he  carried  out  his  mandate,  to 
great general satisfaction. 

Finally,  I  pay  a  heartfelt  tribute  to  the  Secretary-
General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his praiseworthy, tireless 
efforts to uphold and promote the purposes and principles 
of  the  Charter.  The  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo 
thanks  him  for  having  agreed  to  be  present  in  Kinshasa 
during  the  celebration  of  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  our 
accession 
is  proof  of  his 
commitment and that of the United Nations, together with 
the  Congolese  people,  in  the  search  for  peace,  stability 
and development. My country reaffirms its determination 
to support him in his efforts to bring about a world that is 
safer for all of us. 
The President took the Chair. 

This session is being held at a time of particular 

difficulty  for  all  humanity,  which  is  in  crisis,  marked 
by  challenges  to  the  basic  principles  of  international 
relations, worsened by the self-interest of nations. The 
outcome  document  adopted  yesterday  on  accelerating 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals, 
while  being  a  message  of  hope,  nevertheless  gives  a 
sense of the gap separating the wealthy countries from 
the  poor  countries  as  we  seek  better  living  conditions 
for our peoples. 

The  food  crisis  and  famine  afflict  many  peoples 
of  the  planet.  Endemic  diseases  that  had  almost 
disappeared are now resurfacing, and new scourges are 
appearing.  In  particular,  we  see  a  plethora  of  natural 
disasters  in  the  wake  of  climate  change,  which  is 
proving to be even more devastating. 

The  grim  picture  that  I  have  just  painted  should 
motivate us to be more united in mobilizing our efforts 
in  a  spirit  of  constructive  solidarity  in  order  to  find 
agreed,  comprehensive  solutions  measuring  up  to  the 
vast challenges that we must meet. 

The  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  makes  a 
pressing  appeal  to  all  States  to  work  together  at  long 
last  for  a  better  world,  while  tirelessly  trying  to  bring 
peace wherever areas of tension persist. 

The  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  also 
commends  all  the  efforts  made  by  a  number  of  States 
under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations  to  restore 
peace, security, democracy and development to certain 
regions  of  the  Middle  East,  the  Balkans,  the  Horn  of 
Africa, Central Africa and other regions of the world. 
My  country  is  emerging  from  a  multifaceted 

crisis  worsened  by  the  various  wars  that  ravaged  it 
until recently. Like many other African nations, it also 
suffers  from  the  harmful  consequences  of  the  global 
economic  and  financial  crisis. As  I  told  my  people  on 
30 June, on the occasion of the  fiftieth  anniversary of 
our  independence,  poverty  and  a  precarious  situation 
are neither inevitable nor irreversible. 
The Democratic Republic of the Congo wants the 

next 50 years to be much brighter and more promising. 
It  undertakes,  to  that  end,  to  make  its  contribution  to 
the  forward  march  of  humankind  towards  a  better 
world. 
respect 
the  global  challenges  of 

With 
preserving 
the  planet,  my  country,  wondrously 
endowed  and  blessed  by  nature,  reaffirms  its  solemn 
commitment  to  defend  its  biodiversity  in  its  policies 
and its national development plan. 

The  Government  of  my  country,  whose  forests 
provide  the  world  with  its  second  set  of  “lungs”, 
believes  that  the  issue  of  climate  change  and  the 
environment will require the establishment of a global 
environment  authority,  which  should  involve  both 
public  and  private 
institutions,  civil  society  and 
scientific circles. 

With  respect  to  establishing  and  consolidating 
peace,  my  country  welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s 
acceptance  of  our  request  to  establish  in  Libreville  in 
the  Republic  of  Gabon  a  United  Nations  office  for 
Central Africa, which clearly will help bring the United 
Nations closer and ensure better coordination between 
it  and  the  countries  of  the  region.  Issues  of  peace, 
security, humanitarian assistance and development will 
be  considered 
implementation  of 
measures adopted will receive the necessary urgency. 
It  is  up  to  us  to  consolidate  peace  everywhere, 

through  international  and  regional  mechanisms  and 
speedily,  and 
to 
16 

10-54833 
the  Congo 
repatriations  have 


instruments  for  the  maintenance  of  peace  and  the 
prevention and settlement of conflict. 

is 
The  Democratic  Republic  of 
resolved to eradicate the phenomenon of foreign armed 
groups in its national territory. This is the framework in 
which  should  be  understood  the  military  operations 
that  we  have  carried  out  systematically  since  2009  to 
force such groups to lay down their arms for good. Due 
to  military  pressures  and  awareness-raising  and 
outreach  campaigns,  and  also  because 
the  were 
displace  far  from  their  own  borders  of  origin,  the 
volunteer 
intensified  and  will 
continue to do so. 

The question of the Lord’s Resistance Army is no 
longer a matter of defence; rather, it is now a matter of 
public  order.  Nevertheless,  given  the  crimes  and 
atrocities  that  it  still  commits  against  our  civilian 
populations,  we  shall  remain  mobilized  and  vigilant. 
The  ultimate  aim  is  to  put  that  group  in  a  situation  in 
which it can no longer do any harm. 

the 
Together  with  our  efforts 
insecurity  in  the  eastern  part  of  our  national  territory, 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  is  working  to 
strengthen  the  rule  of  law,  democracy  and  good 
governance. 

With respect to justice in particular, I should like 
to dwell a little on the ordeal of Congolese women in 
the  Provinces  of  North  and  South  Kivu.  The  lack  of 
security  is  the  primary  cause  of  the  tragedy.  Armed 
groups,  which  benefit  from  the  illegal  exploitation  of 
raw  materials,  are  at  the  very  root  of  the  scourge. We 
have decided upon appropriate measures to address this 
unacceptable situation. 

The  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  is  now 
addressing  the  causes  of  the  violence  against  women 
and the causes of recurrent conflict. At the same time, 
it is enhancing its judiciary in order to address together 
peace, justice and security.  The  fight  against  impunity 
continues  to  be  of  prime  importance  in  Government 
actions. 

My Government is working within the framework 
of achieving the Millennium Development Goals to do 
its  utmost  to  meet  the  basic  needs  of  our  people: 
health, 
basic 
infrastructures,  electricity  and  drinking  water  for  all, 
not 
to  mention  fighting  malaria,  HIV/AIDS  and 
poverty.  I  appreciate  the  commitment  of  our  partners 
self-sufficiency, 
to  eradicate 
education, 
food 
A/65/PV.12
time 
frames, 
electoral 
respecting 
With  regard 
who  are  supporting  us  in  achieving  my  country’s 
development priorities. 

Because  of  the  complex  nature  of  the  various 
tasks  that  need  to  be  carried  out  on  our  territory  of 
more  than  several  million  square  kilometres,  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  is  a  vast  building 
site, requiring multiple contributions for reconstruction 
and  modernization.  Such  contributions  are  welcome, 
particularly  in  the  framework  of  a  partnership  that  we 
want  to  be  respectful  and  proactive  with  the  private 
sector. 

Today the economic indicators are changing in a 
positive  manner.  Several  key  actions  have  been 
successfully  taken.  The  credit  for  this  success,  which 
gives us the means for a new start, lies above all with 
the  Congolese  people.  It  also  stems  from  the  valuable 
contributions and cooperation of our partners. 
to  political  and  administrative 

to  hold  presidential  and 
management,  we  plan 
legislative  elections  in  2011.  My  Government  is 
making  it  a  point  of  honour  to  consolidate  democracy 
by 
ensuring 
accountability of the highest order and completing the 
establishment  of  the  institutions  provided  for  by  the 
Constitution  within 
the 
decentralization process. 
My country supports the process of reforming our 

universal  Organization.  The  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo  reaffirms  that  the  Member  States  should 
work  resolutely  within  that  trend.  United  Nations 
reform,  including  Security  Council  reform,  should 
therefore  be  undertaken  without  delay,  because  that 
would  support  the  achievement  of  our  dreams,  given 
the new challenges and changes that affect our planet. 

Expansion  of the  Security Council  is  a  democratic 
requirement.  This  vision  needs  to  be  strengthened  by 
affirming the authority of the General Assembly, in order 
to enable its President to play a key role in the quest for 
solutions to the problems of our time. 

It  is  said  that  nature  will  give  man  only  those 
challenges  that  are  within  the  reach  of  his  creative 
potential,  which  has  produced  tremendous  inventions. 
Despite our diversity, the time has now come to put our 
human  resources  at  the  service  of  our  collective 
creativity. 
We  should  not  leave  the  controls  of  the  global 

economy to unbridled capitalism, which recognizes no 
framework 
the 
of 
10-54833 

17 

A/65/PV.12 

regulation  of  movements  of  capital,  and  is  motivated 
only  by  the  profit  motive.  It  is  our  duty  also  to 
globalize the universal values of justice, solidarity and 
altruism  that  contribute  to  international  peace  and 
security. 

Together  we  can  give  humanity  better  times,  if 
day  after  day  we  work  to  achieve  the  ideals  of  our 
Organization. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the 
statement he has just made. 

  Mr.  Joseph  Kabila  Kabange,  President  of  the 
Democratic Republic of  the  Congo, was escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall. 
the  Congo  for 




Address by Mr. Ilham Heydar oglu Aliyev, President 
of the Republic of Azerbaijan 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Azerbaijan. 

  Mr.  Ilham  Heydar  oglu  Aliyev,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Azerbaijan,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ilham  Heydar 
oglu Aliyev,  President  of  the  Republic  of Azerbaijan, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Aliyev:  I  have  the  honour  to  join 

previous  speakers  in  congratulating  you,  Sir,  on  your 
election  to  the  post  of  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session;  I  wish  you  every 
success in that highly responsible post. I would like as 
well  to  thank  your  predecessor,  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam 
Treki,  for  his  productive  work.  I  also  express  my 
profound  respect  and  gratitude 
the  Secretary-
General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his 
leadership and dedication in reviving the Organization. 

Azerbaijan  recognizes  the  central  role  of  the 
United  Nations  in  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security,  promoting  sustainable  development  and 
advocating fundamental freedoms for the people of the 
world. Azerbaijan believes that the United Nations has 
to be stronger and more capable in engaging in a range 
of global issues in every part of the world, as well as in 
to 
international 
the  fulfilment 
in  good  faith  of 
the  aspirations  and  concerns  of  each 
addressing 
Member State. 

As  a  country  suffering  from  the  devastation  of 
war  and  occupation, Azerbaijan  strongly  believes  that 
faithful  observance  of  universally  accepted  norms  and 
principles  of 
law  concerning  good-
neighbourliness, friendly relations, cooperation among 
States  and 
the 
obligations  assumed  by  States  are  of  the  greatest 
importance  for  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and  security.  The  ongoing  armed  conflict  between 
Armenia and Azerbaijan still represents a major threat 
to  international  and  regional  peace  and  security.  The 
conflict  has  resulted  in  the  occupation  of  one  fifth  of 
the territory of Azerbaijan and has made approximately 
one  out  of  every  nine  people  in  my  country  an 
internally displaced person or a refugee. 

It  has  been  internationally  recognized  that  the 
Republic  of  Armenia  bears  the  primary  responsibility 
for  occupying Azerbaijan’s  territories,  committing  the 
most  serious  international  crimes  during  the  conflict, 
carrying  out  ethnic  cleansing  and  trying  to  create  a 
mono-ethnic  culture 
the  captured  Azerbaijani 
territories.  The  Security  Council  has  adopted  four 
resolutions  and  has  expressed  its  full  support  for  the 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of Azerbaijan  and 
the 
the 
acquisition  of  territories.  It  has  also  recognized  that 
Nagorny Karabakh is part of Azerbaijan and has called 
for  the  immediate,  full  and  unconditional  withdrawal 
of the occupying forces from all occupied territories of 
Azerbaijan.  The  General  Assembly 
and  other 
international organizations, including the Organization 
for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE),  the 
Council  of  Europe,  the  European  Parliament  and  the 
Organization  of  the  Islamic  Conference,  have  adopted 
similar 
the 
consolidated  position  of  the  international  community, 
Azerbaijani 
remain  under 
occupation. 

Armenia  so  far,  instead  of  negotiating  in  good 
faith  with  a  view  to  finding  a  durable  solution  to  the 
conflict  as  soon  as  possible,  has  preferred  escalation, 
with  unpredictable  consequences.  Despite  ongoing 
political efforts towards the earliest possible resolution 
of  the  conflict,  activities  in  the  occupied  areas  of 
Azerbaijan  are  in  gross  violation  of  international  law 
and serve to  further  consolidate the current status quo 
of  the  occupation,  securing  the  results  of  ethnic 
positions.  Unfortunately, 
the  use  of  force  for 
territories  continue 
inadmissibility  of 
despite 
in 
to 
18 

10-54833 
to 
into 
to  move 
to  discourage  any  further  settlement  of 


cleansing  and  colonization  of  the  captured  territories, 
and  causing  serious  obstruction 
the  peaceful 
resolution of the conflict. 

Thus,  over  the  period  since  the  beginning  of  the 
conflict,  significant  numbers  of  settlers  have  been 
encouraged 
the  occupied  areas 
depopulated  of  their  Azerbaijani  inhabitants.  In  2005 
to 
OSCE  dispatched  a  fact-finding  mission 
the 
occupied 
found 
territories  of  Azerbaijan,  which 
evidence  of  the  presence  of  settlers  there  and  made  a 
call 
the 
occupied  territory  of  Azerbaijan.  Measures  are  also 
being  consistently  undertaken  by  Armenia  with  the 
purpose  of  altering  the  historical  and  cultural  features 
of the occupied areas in an attempt to remove any signs 
testifying  to  their  original  Azerbaijani  cultural  and 
historical  roots.  As  a  result,  not  a  single  Azerbaijani 
historic or cultural monument has been left undamaged 
and  no  sacred  site  has  escaped  vandalism  in  the 
occupied territories. Implantation of settlers as well as 
destruction  and  appropriation  of  the  historical  and 
cultural  heritage  in  the  occupied  areas,  along  with 
various  other  forms  of  illegal  activity  there,  directly 
affect 
internally  displaced 
persons. 
The  lack  of  agreement  on  political  issues,  the 

protracted  nature  of 
the  conflict  and  prolonged 
negotiations  should  not  be  used  as  pretexts  for  not 
addressing other problems deriving from continued and 
deliberate disrespect for international humanitarian law 
and international human rights law in connection with 
the conflict. 

The  earliest  possible  resolution  of  the  armed 
conflict in and around the Nagorny Karabakh region of 
Azerbaijan  remains  a  primary  task  for  us.  The  OSCE 
Minsk Group Co-Chair countries are engaged in efforts 
to bring peace and stability to the region. Resolution of 
the  conflict  envisages  the  withdrawal  of  Armenian 
forces from the occupied Azerbaijani territories within 
a 
all 
communications,  return  of  all  refugees  and  internally 
displaced persons to their places of origin, international 
security guarantees, including peacekeeping forces, and 
interim status for Nagorny Karabakh. We are ready to 
continue the talks in good faith for finalizing the status 
of  Nagorny  Karabakh  within 
the  Republic  of 
Azerbaijan. 
the  property  rights  of 
framework, 
restoration 
fixed 
time 
of 
A/65/PV.12
to 
in  an 
Azerbaijan  highly  appreciates 

The step-by-step approach introduced to Armenia 
and Azerbaijan in December 2009 by the OSCE Minsk 
Group Co-Chairs is accepted by Azerbaijan in principle 
as  a  basis  for  achieving  a  lasting  resolution  of  the 
Armenia-Azerbaijan  Nagorny  Karabakh 
conflict. 
Unfortunately,  Armenia  is  still  delaying  a  definite 
answer to the Co-Chairs’ proposal. 

the  principled 
stand  of  Member  States  on  issues  of  vital  importance 
for  Azerbaijan  pertaining 
its  sovereignty  and 
territorial integrity. We rely on the continued solidarity 
of the international community with the just position of 
Azerbaijan  and  on  valuable  support  for  our  initiatives 
within  the  United  Nations,  aimed  at  addressing  the 
existing  challenges 
impartial,  open  and 
comprehensive manner. 

Despite  the  unresolved  conflict  over  Nagorny 
Karabakh  and  occupied  territories,  the  Government  of 
Azerbaijan  has  succeeded  in  guaranteeing  political 
stability, democratic development, economic prosperity 
and social welfare in the country. Today, Azerbaijan is 
one  of  the  most  rapidly  developing  economies  in  the 
world. Within the last five years alone, Azerbaijan has 
nearly tripled its gross domestic product. The strategic 
geographic location of Azerbaijan at the intersection of 
major  trade  routes  along  the  emerging  East-West  and 
North-South transport and energy corridors provides an 
important asset to turn the country into an energy and 
infrastructure hub. 

Azerbaijan possesses considerable proven oil and 
natural  gas  reserves  and  has  good  prospects  for  new 
discoveries.  Modern  infrastructure  for  transporting 
hydrocarbons to international markets has already been 
created in Azerbaijan and has been used for exporting 
oil and natural gas, which can diversify supply sources 
and  strengthen  international  energy  security.  This  is 
particularly  crucial  for  gas  supplies.  With  proven 
reserves of 2 trillion cubic metres of natural gas and a 
potential  of  up  to  5  trillion  cubic  metres  or,  and 
perhaps  even  more, Azerbaijan  is  ready  to  provide  its 
own  contribution  to  ensure  the  stable  development  of 
the world natural gas market. 

Another  globally  important  project,  on  which 
Azerbaijan 
its 
neighbours  is  building  and  enhancing  the  regional 
railroad  infrastructure.  This  railroad  connection  will 
open  an  enormous  opportunity  for  transporting  all 
kinds of cargo between Asia and Europe. 
is  working  very 
intensively  with 
10-54833 

19 
the  Group  of  Friends  of 
A/65/PV.12 


As  a  very  active  member  of  the  Extractive 
Industries  Transparency  Initiative,  Azerbaijan,  in  an 
open and transparent manner, uses its energy revenues 
for  the  development  of  the  country,  particularly  in 
building  human  capital  and  working  to  eradicate 
reducing  poverty.  Thus,  we  were  able  to  achieve  a 
dramatic  poverty  reduction,  from  49  per  cent  in  2003 
to  11  per  cent  in  2009.  And  I  strongly  believe  that 
through sustainable development Azerbaijan will attain 
even more in this field in upcoming years. 

Azerbaijan  has  always  been  a  place  of 
coexistence  and 
tolerance  among  different  faiths, 
ethnic  groups  and  philosophies. As  an  active  member 
of 
the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations, Azerbaijan  contributes  to  the  promotion 
of  inter-religious  and  intercultural  dialogue  based  on 
mutual  respect  and  understanding.  Azerbaijan  hosted 
the  World  Summit  of  Religious  Leaders,  with 
participants  from  32  States,  in  the  spring  of  this  year 
and has put forward an initiative to host a world forum 
for intercultural dialogue in April 2011. 

One of the most serious and long-term challenges 
that  can  affect  every  part  of  the  globe  is  climate 
change.  We  in  Azerbaijan  proclaimed  2010  a  year  of 
ecology and adopted various special programmes in the 
field of environmental protection. 

and 
Azerbaijan  demonstrates 
undertakes  ceaseless  efforts  for  the  promotion  of 
sustainable  development  and  global  prosperity  for  all, 
paying  particular  attention  to  addressing  the  special 
needs  and  vulnerabilities  of  the  developing  and  least 
developed  countries,  as  well  as  of  those  who  are 
recovering  from  natural  disasters.  Azerbaijan  will 
continue 
the 
Millennium  development  goals  and  objectives  agreed 
within the United Nations. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the  General  Assembly  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Azerbaijan  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

  Mr.  Ilham  Heydar  oglu  Aliyev,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Azerbaijan,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
the  realization  of 
to  contribute 
support 
full 
to 



into 
role  of 
the  United  Nations 
President  Martinelli  Berrocal
Address by Mr. Ricardo Martinelli Berrocal, 
President of the Republic of Panama 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Panama. 

  Mr. Ricardo Martinelli Berrocal, President of the 
Republic  of  Panama,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ricardo 
Martinelli  Berrocal,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Panama, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
in 
(spoke 

Spanish):  I  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  to 
preside  over  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth 
session. We fully endorse your proposal to analyse the 
central 
in  global 
governance.  The  United  Nations  is  the  international 
forum in which to exchange ideas and adopt measures 
that  strengthen  the  pillars  upon  which  our  governance 
stands. 

Panama’s  geography  has  allowed  my  country  to 
serve  as  a  bridge  between  and  meeting  point  of  the 
most  diverse  cultures  and  civilizations.  Thanks  to  the 
discovery  of  our  special  privileged  position  in  1513 
and  the  opening  of  the  Panama  Canal  in  1914,  today 
we connect Europe, the Americas and the East. That is 
how  our  story  has  been  written.  Five  hundred  years 
later, we are still working for the benefit of the world’s 
maritime commerce. 

Our  ethnic  diversity  is  a  symbol  and  example  of 
our national  unity. Panama is committed to promoting 
economic growth and social justice. We make possible 
the  peaceful  coexistence  of  all  ethnicities  and  creeds. 
We Panamanians love peace, and we manage our canal 
with  scrupulous  careful  neutrality.  Our  foreign  policy 
is  defined  by  respect,  the  defence  and  promotion  of 
democracy,  human  rights,  and  international  peace  and 
international  security,  all  within  the  framework  of  the 
doctrine of human security. 
Panama has played an active role in favour of the 

international  community  at  important  United  Nations 
forums.  Among  these  are  the  Security  Council,  the 
Commission  on  Human  Rights,  the  Human  Rights 
Committee,  and  the  Committee  on  the  Elimination  of 
Discrimination against Women. Our pacifism does not 
10-54833 



20 

traffickers 


imply  passivity  in  the  face  of  situations  that  affect 
international  security  and  the  governance  of  peoples. 
Change is in the air all over the globe. People demand 
even  more  of  their  public  servants.  Our  political  and 
diplomatic  activities  are  founded  on  the  principles  of 
international  cooperation  and  the  strengthening  of 
global multilateralism. 

Trafficking in drugs, weapons, human organs and 
persons — associated with illegal migration — as well 
as money-laundering, banditryism and terrorism are the 
work of criminal organizations that seek to destabilize 
our democracies. The trafficking and illegal possession 
of  weapons  have  a  devastating  effect  on  human 
security and governance in our countries. 

For  Panama  and  the  Central  American  region, 
drugs  are  our  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  are  a 
vital issue. Drug traffickers filter through our land and 
sea  borders,  polluting  our  young  people  with  their 
poison.  Additionally,  our  region  is  being  used  by 
networks  of  human 
that  steer  mixed 
migratory  flows  of  persons  from  other  continents 
through our borders. 
In  the  face  of  these  challenges,  my  country  and 

the other members of the Central American Integration 
System  have  decided  to  create  a  regional  security 
coordination  centre.  These  regional  efforts  to  fight 
transnational organized crime, based in my country, are 
already yielding encouraging results. 

We  understand  that  it  is  vital  to  work  jointly  to 
improve  the  functioning  of  international  institutions, 
for  the  benefit  of  humanity.  In  this  regard,  I  find  it  a 
very positive sign for the region that President Porfirio 
Lobo  of  Honduras 
this 
Assembly.  In  order  to  count  on  a  world  that  is  more 
stable  and  secure,  we  must  set  aside  our  differences. 
Stability  requires  us  to  work  together  to  strengthen 
human security, both regionally and globally. 

of 
convergence among the diverse various economies; this  
will continue for some years. While the previous stage 
of  globalization  lasted  some  60  years,  we  believe  that 
the  one 
its 
readjustments  by  mid-century.  It  is  also  necessary  to 
note that as a result of this process of convergence, we 
have suffered during the past two years the effects of a 
significant crisis. 
in  1990  will  conclude 
is  participating  fully 
Globalization 
that  began 
entered 
in 
has 
a 
period 
A/65/PV.12
free 
through 
the  negotiation  of 

This  global  crisis  demands  newer  and  better 
forms  of  government  for  our  societies.  This  global 
crisis demands the expansion of our markets and better 
management of our intergovernmental relations. In this 
context,  we  appreciate  the  efforts  towards  developing 
the  exchange  of  goods,  workers, 
tourists  and 
investments across the China Straits, which offer a new 
thrust  to  achieving  the  full  potential  of  our  trade 
relations with that region. 
For  its  part,  Panama  is  also  expanding  its  trade 

relations 
trade 
agreements  with  Peru  and  Colombia.  We  are  also 
actively pursuing free trade agreements negotiated with 
Canada,  and  the  United  States  of  America  and  an 
association  agreement  between  Central  America  and 
the  European  Union. Accordingly,  I  wish  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  ask  for  the  support  of  all  Governments 
involved,  with  a  view  toward  their  approval  and 
ratification of all these treaties. 

We  are  on  the  threshold  of  an  era  of  economic 
growth  and  opportunity  in  Latin  America.  Thus,  we 
renew  our  commitment  to  a  more  just  and  inclusive 
free  trade  that  offers  economic  opportunities  and 
prosperity  to  all  our  peoples. With  change  and  reform 
sweeping  the  region,  we  have  more  than  enough 
reasons  to  promote  a  new  age  of  cooperation  and 
working 
this 
face  our  common 
opportunity  and  successfully 
challenges. 

Panama  enjoys  very  healthy  and  strong  relations 
with its main partner, the United States of America — a 
partner that is committed to our region’s success. Such 
an  engaged  partner  is  crucial  for  the  region’s  success. 
On both trade and security issues, the United States is 
and always has been an ally and a willing friend. 

the 
for 
comprehensive  development  of  trade  relations  and  the 
strengthening  of  our  economies,  more  measures  are 
required to ensure effective tax collection. To this end, 
Panama  has  signed  agreements 
to  avoid  double 
taxation  and  prevent  tax  evasion.  This  is  part  of  a 
national  strategy  that  seeks  to  strengthen  transparency 
and  the  competitiveness  of  our  country’s  international 
services.  We  have  already  signed  agreements  with 
Mexico,  Barbados  and  Portugal,  and  a  while  ago  with 
the State of Qatar. We have also concluded negotiations 
with  Italy,  Belgium,  the  Netherlands,  Spain,  France, 
Luxembourg, the Republic of Korea and Singapore. 
together.  Together,  we  can  seize 
Additionally,  we  understand 
that 
10-54833 

21 
the 
and 

to  achieve 
The  Government  of  Panama  welcomes 
A/65/PV.12 


We  want  to  offer  the  Panamanian  experience  as 
an  example  to  the  world.  It  is  an  economic  story  of 
reform  at  home  along  with  strong  international  trade 
and business relations across the region; these have had 
excellent results and have proved fruitful. 

the 
adoption  of  resolution  65/1,  entitled  “Keeping  the 
promise:  —  united 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals”,  and,  at  the  same  time,  we 
reaffirm our commitment to that document. 
In  a  little  less  than  a  year  in  Government,  we 

have  developed  structural  reforms  and  programmes  to 
meet the needs of our people, focusing particularly on 
society’s  most  vulnerable  groups.  Among 
these 
programmes, allow me to highlight one that consists of 
grants  to  elderly  people  who  lack  retirement  funds  or 
pensions. Additionally, we have established a system of 
universal  scholarships  to  support  our  young  people 
with  a  monthly  stipend  from  the  first  to  the  twelfth 
grades. Whether the student attends a public school or 
a  private  school  with  modest  tuition  fees,  the  State  is 
reducing 
strengthening 
relationships among teachers, parents and students. 

Moreover,  in  December  2009,  we  decreed  the 
highest  largest  minimum  wage  increase  in  the  past 
50 years.  We  are  thus  helping  workers  in  the  private 
and  public  sectors  who  were  earning  very  low  wages. 
Additionally, we established a solidarity fund to assist 
Panamanians  of  limited  means  in  buying  their  first 
home. 
Panama  will  invest  more  than  $13  billion  in 

public  infrastructure  over  the  next  five  years.  This 
effort  will  include  the  building  of  hospitals,  the 
development  of  roads,  the  expansion  of  Tocumen 
International Airport, the building of other airports, and 
the  establishment  of  the  MetroBus,  as  well  as  the 
construction  of  a  modern  subway  system  in  Panama 
City. That first subway line will raise the quality of life 
for Panamanian families, who will thus have more time 
to share and strengthen family values. 

These projects, together with the expansion of the 
Canal and the responsible and sustainable exploitation 
of  our  natural  resources,  will  cost  more  than  $20 
billion in the coming years and will generate thousands 
of  jobs  that  the  country  so  sorely  needs. All  of  these 
public  works  projects  will  be  developed  with  the 
highest environmental standards and will contribute to 
dropout 
rate 
to  play  a  central  role 
for  Latin  America  and 
a more dynamic economy for Panama and the region as 
a whole. 

The  theme  chosen  for  this  debate  could  not  be 
more  appropriate;  we  concur  that  the  United  Nations 
has  a  calling 
in  global 
governance. To that end, we need to deepen the process 
of  reforms  begun  within  the  Organization.  Panama  is 
committed  to  making  its  contribution  to  this  process, 
placing  its  geographical  position  and  its  logistics 
infrastructure at the service of the Organization. 
In  this  regard,  my  Government  has  two  key 

projects, namely, the establishment of a United Nations 
inter-agency  centre 
the 
Caribbean  and  the  creation  of  a  regional  logistics 
centre  for  humanitarian  assistance,  both  to  be  located 
in Panama. The first will promote more coherence and 
synergy  between  all  regional  offices,  with  greater 
efficiency  in  the  use  of  resources.  The  second  will 
improve  the  regional  capacity  to  respond  to  natural 
disasters  and  humanitarian  crises,  and  will  be  the  site 
of  warehouses  for  the  United  Nations,  and  the  Red 
Cross and Red Crescent. 
We  reaffirm  our  conviction  that  the  United 

Nations is the international forum for the exchange of 
ideas  and  for  adopting  measures  that  strengthen  the 
pillars upon which world governance rests. The United 
Nations is also a forum of goodwill where nations can 
work  together  on  shared  goals.  In  our  region  that 
means jobs, opportunity and security for our peoples. It 
also  means  modernizing  economies,  reforming  the 
Government, and ensuring social well-being. 

Panama is a good example of this success. Today, 
my  country  reaffirms  its  belief  in  and  solidarity  with 
the  United  Nations  system.  I  say  this  unambiguously 
and  with  great  certainty.  We  are  fully  prepared  and 
willing  to  offer  all  the  peoples  of  the  planet  the  best 
possible service and utility and, as a product of that, to 
develop our citizens. That is Panama’s mission, and we 
will accomplish it. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Republic  of  Panama  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

  Mr. Ricardo Martinelli Berrocal, President of the 
Republic  of  Panama,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 

22 

10-54833 


into 


Address by Mr. Paul Biya, President of the Republic 
of Cameroon 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Paul 
Biya, President of the Republic of Cameroon. 

  Mr.  Paul  Biya,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Cameroon,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Paul  Biya, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Cameroon,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly. 
President  Biya  (spoke  in  French):  I  would  like 

first to extend my hearty congratulations to you, Sir, on 
your  unanimous  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session.  With  your  rich 
experience in international affairs, we believe you will 
succeed in your task. I would also like to pay tribute to 
your  predecessor,  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalem  Treki,  for  his 
commitment  and  skill  in  discharging  his  challenging 
functions during the previous session, and I convey to 
him my special thanks. 

I  also  wish  to  thank  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon  and  his  aides  for  their  untiring  efforts  in  the 
service  of  peace  and  development  throughout  the 
world, particularly in the least developed countries. 

As  the  first  decade  of  the  twenty-first  century 
draws  to  a  close,  it  is  certainly  worthwhile  to  review 
the  ground  covered  since  we  proclaimed,  some 
10 years ago in this very Hall, our common resolve to 
cut  poverty  in  half  by  2015,  worldwide. We  all  recall 
the 
solemn 
commitment. 

Today,  we  are  forced  to  note  that  we  are  still 
quite far off the track. More than one billion people are 
still  living  in  extreme  poverty.  The  development  gap 
between  the  countries  of  the  North  and  those  of  the 
South  continues 
instead  of  narrowing. 
International  assistance  is  stagnating  and  remains 
below  the  level  of  commitment  made  by  developed 
countries to devote 0.7 per cent of their gross national 
product to it. The  results in the eight priority  areas of 
the Millennium Development Goals  are  disappointing, 
even unsatisfactory, while  the deadline  of 2015 is just 
around the corner. 
engendered 
enthusiasm 
to  widen 
that 
by 
A/65/PV.12
to 
all 
express 
slowdown 
jeopardize 
it  continues 
solidarity  with 
in  financial  markets 
So  what  happened?  The  economic  crisis  caused 

is 
the  recent  upheavals 
by 
to  blame.  The 
in  activity 
certainly 
in  some  cases,  recession  — 
worldwide  —  and, 
monopolized  the  attention  of  the  countries  of  the 
North.  They  gave  priority  to  reviving  their  own 
economies  and  solving  their  own  social  problems. 
However, even though we can understand that, it does 
not explain everything. 

In  fact,  the  awareness  shown  at  the  turn  of  the 
century  of  the  disastrous  consequences  of  deepening 
poverty  in  the  third  world  seems  to  have  waned 
significantly.  Yet  the  situation  has  not  only  failed  to 
improve, 
to  deteriorate.  On  several 
occasions,  from  this  rostrum  and  elsewhere,  I  have 
drawn  the  attention  of  the  international  community  to 
the problem posed by the growth in poverty worldwide. 
I have pointed out that, for ethical reasons, it behooves 
us 
the  most 
underprivileged. I have further indicated that this is, of 
course,  in  everyone’s  interests,  for  the  ever-widening 
gap between the rich and the poor can only exacerbate 
tensions  and 
international  peace  and 
security. 

I will be pardoned, I am sure, if I dwell a little on 
the case of Africa. It is undeniably the continent most 
affected  by  extreme  poverty,  which 
is  generally 
accompanied by food shortages, epidemics, population 
movements and insecurity. Is it any wonder, then, that 
such profound misery sometimes explodes, as was the 
case two years ago during what were dubbed the food 
riots?  The  international  community  cannot  remain 
indifferent to such a threat, which could undermine our 
efforts 
to  advance  democracy  and  ensure  our 
development. 
Let  me  make  myself  clear.  It  is  not  a  matter  of 

engaging 
the  sake  of  any 
ideology, of ascribing motives to this or that country or 
group of countries, or of sermonizing. I am the first to 
acknowledge  that  the  United  Nations  and  its  agencies 
have provided assistance and guidance to our continent 
since  independence;  that  most  countries  of  the  North 
have,  through  their  cooperation,  financial  assistance 
and  debt  cancellation,  lent  and  continue  to  lend 
irreplaceable  support  to  Africa;  and  that  emerging 
countries  have  taken  over. We  are,  of  course,  grateful 
to all of them. 
in  recriminations  for 
10-54833 

23 

lacked 
that  we  have 
the  celebration  of 
A/65/PV.12 


However, that obviously is not enough. I am not 
trying  to  apportion  blame  for  this  state  of  affairs.  I 
merely  want  to  say  that  the  solutions  applied  were 
perhaps not the best. I would add that from the African 
perspective,  we  have  been  burdened  with  too  many 
historical handicaps — slavery, colonization, economic 
dependence and internal and external conflicts — and, 
of  course, 
toughness  and 
steadiness of mind. 

For reasons of mutual interest mentioned earlier, I 
think  we  should  review  the  issue  thoroughly,  without 
ulterior  ideological  motives  or  political  or  economic 
prejudices. No matter what is said, Africa has changed 
significantly over the past 50 years and seems to me to 
be  ready  for  a  wide-ranging  ideological  debate  on  the 
issue,  provided  that  it  is  conducted  in  a  true  spirit  of 
partnership. Through  this  approach  we  can  realize  the 
famous  Marshall  Plan  for  Africa,  which  is  often 
mentioned but has yet to see the light of day. 

That  concern  led  Cameroon  to  organize  an 
international conference — Africa 21 — in Yaoundé on 
fiftieth 
the  occasion  of 
anniversary  of 
that 
conference the 50 years of African independence were 
objectively  assessed  and  the  future  opportunities  for 
our  continent  were  evaluated.  The  conference  was 
attended  by  several  Heads  of  State  and  Government, 
former  Prime  Ministers,  high-level  representatives  of 
international  organizations,  experts  of  world  renown, 
major  corporate  executives  and  Nobel  Peace  Prize 
winners. 

The final declaration of the conference, which my 
delegation  has  made  available,  can  serve  as  a  kind  of 
guide  for  the  rehabilitation  of  Africa,  with  regard  to 
both  its  economic  recovery  and  its  participation  in 
international  life.  That  is  what  it  is  all  about  — 
ensuring  that  our  continent  does  not  remain  forever 
aid-dependent  and  that  it  plays  its  rightful  role  in 
international affairs. 

Allow  me,  in  this  Hall,  to  emphasize  the  second 
point.  How  can  we  today  explain  why  Africa  is  the 
only  continent  without  a  permanent  member  on  the 
Security  Council?  How  can  we  explain  that  Africa  is 
unable  to  make  its  voice  heard  when  its  problems  are 
examined  in  global  economic  and  financial  bodies 
while the decisions made there will be imposed on it? 
At  a  time  when  emerging  countries  are  rightly  calling 
for  a seat on  the Security  Council commensurate with 
its  achieving  sovereignty.  At 
the 

true  sense  of 
their economic and political weight, Africa as a whole 
should not be forgotten. 

For a long time our continent has been treated, I 
dare say, as an object of international relations. Yet, it 
is  directly  affected  by  most  of  the  major  problems 
confronting  humanity  today,  be  they  migratory  flows, 
global  warming,  economic  and  financial  regulation, 
terrorism, et cetera. In short, it is sometimes the victim 
of  phenomena  for  which  it  is  not  responsible.  From 
that standpoint also, there is a need to get out of the rut 
in which major negotiations appear to be bogged down. 
Africans  seek  more  understanding  and  sympathy 

in 
the 
the  words.  The  delayed 
development from which they suffer cannot be reduced 
to  the  Millennium  Goals. Admittedly,  they  want  to  be 
less  poor  and  to  eat  their  fill,  but  above  all,  to  be 
protected  from  fear  and  want,  to  be  freer  and  to 
imagine a future without anxiety. In short, they want to 
live  in  a  society  that  guarantees  them  those  minimum 
conditions for existence and well-being. 

Most  African  countries  have  embarked  on  this 
path. For its part, over the last decades Cameroon has 
set  up  representative  institutions,  established  the  rule 
of  law  and  ensured  respect  for  human  rights.  On  the 
economic  and  social  front,  significant  progress  has 
been made in the areas of public finance, education and 
health.  Should  this  trend  continue,  our  country  can 
expect,  in  the  medium  term,  to  attain  the  status  of  an 
emerging country. 
That  to  me  seems  to  be  the  mindset  of  most 

international 
African 
community  has  a  role  to  play  in  supporting  them  in 
their  effort  to  join  the  global  society. To  that  end,  the 
international 
show  more 
solidarity  and,  of  course,  more 
understanding, 
fraternity. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the Republic of Cameroon for the statement he has just 
made. 

  Mr.  Paul  Biya,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Cameroon,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
countries.  Certainly, 
community  needs 
from 
the 
to 
24 

10-54833 




Address by Mr. Sebastian Piñera Echeñique, 
President of the Republic of Chile 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Chile. 

  Mr. Sebastian Piñera Echeñique, President of the 
Republic of Chile, was  escorted  into the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sebastian 
Piñera  Echeñique,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Chile, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President Piñera Echeñique (spoke in Spanish): 

I  wish 
to  begin  by  conveying  our  heartfelt 
congratulations to you, Mr. President, on your election 
to guide the work of the General Assembly at its sixty-
fifth session. Your human and professional qualities are 
a  guarantee  of  success  in  the  Assembly’s  important 
tasks. 

I  come  to  this  rostrum  as  the  representative  of 
Chile, a country that is far away on the map but that is 
inhabited  by  a  people  that  is  close  and  that  is  in 
solidarity  and  brotherhood;  a  country  geographically 
narrow  but  with  a  big  and  generous  heart;  a  country 
physically  surrounded  by  an  arid  desert  to  the  north, 
majestic mountains to the east, a huge sea to the west 
and  the  magnificent  Antarctica  to  the  south.  Despite 
that,  it  is  a  people  with  a  permanent  and  steadfast 
commitment and calling to integration in the world. It 
is  a  country  that  like  many  others  has  experienced 
division  and  discord  among  its  children  but  that  is 
today  fully  united  and  reconciled;  a  country  with  a 
fearless 
possessing 
indomitable  determination  and  valour;  a  country  of 
warriors and heroes but that has enjoyed uninterrupted 
peace for 130 years. It is a young country but with age-
old 
the  present  with 
confidence and the future with optimism. 

Chile  is  a  country  that  today  is  living  through 
times that are historic and dramatic and offer enormous 
opportunities.  I  say  historic  times  because  only  five 
days  ago  we  commemorated  our 
two-hundredth 
anniversary  of  independence  and  opened  the  doors  to 
our  third  century  of  republican  life. We  did  so  as  one 
big family saluting the same flag, honouring the same 
heroes  and 
same  national  anthem 
institutions,  and 
it  views 
character 
singing 
the 
and 
earthy 
but 
A/65/PV.12
to  school  because 
irrespective  of  our  political  ideas,  religious  beliefs, 
ethnic origin or economic situation. 

But Chile is also living through dramatic times of 
adversity  and  sadness. A  few  months  ago  our  country 
suffered  one  of  the  five  worst  earthquakes  in  human 
history, followed by tidal waves on our coastlines. Five 
hundred  and  twenty-one  of  our  fellow  citizens  lost 
their  lives  and  many  are  still  missing.  More  than 
2 million  Chileans  were  affected.  Entire  cities  and 
villages  were  demolished.  Hundreds  of  hospitals, 
clinics,  bridges  and  ports  are  still  unusable.  One  of 
every three children — 1.25 million — were unable to 
return 
the  schools  had  been 
destroyed or badly damaged. Total losses amounted to 
about  $30  billion,  equivalent  to  about  18  per  cent  of 
our national product. Without doubt, it was the largest 
catastrophe  with  the  biggest  damage  ever  suffered  by 
our  country  in  the  history  of  its  200  years  of 
independence. 

But  from  those  ruins  rose  a  people  united  in 
solidarity. After a mere 45 days all children and young 
people had returned to school. In only 60 days we were 
able  to  restore  proper  health-care  services  in  the 
affected  areas.  In  only  90  days  we  had  built  more 
emergency  housing  than  we  had  built  throughout  our 
country’s  prior  history.  In  100  days  we  had  entirely 
restored  connections, providing full or partial services 
to  airports,  ports,  roads,  bridges  —  everything  the 
earthquake  had  destroyed.  In  120  days  our  economy 
had  recovered 
to  grow  and  create 
employment with greater strength than ever. 

Certainly, reconstruction has only just begun and 
will  require  years  of  effort.  But  to  that  end  we  will 
continue  to  work  tirelessly  until  we  have  rebuilt  the 
last  school,  the  last  hospital  or  the  last  home  that  had 
been  destroyed.  Because  for  a  country  such  as  Chile, 
which has been shaped by adversity, determination and 
hard  work,  however  difficult  a  crisis  may  be  or  how 
painful  its  consequences,  it  always  represents  an 
opportunity — the opportunity to build a better country 
together. 

In  addition  to  being  historic  and  dramatic,  these 
are  times  of  enormous  opportunities.  That  is  because 
this  generation  of  Chileans  — 
the  bicentennial 
generation  —  is  in  position  to  fulfil  the  dream  our 
parents  and  grandparents  had  always  cherished  but 
never  achieved.  That  dream  is  to  succeed  in  making 
Chile, before the end of this decade, a country able to 
the  capacity 
10-54833 

25 

and 
is 
encourage 
innovation 
level 
the  political 
for  material 
A/65/PV.12 

defeat  poverty,  to  defeat  underdevelopment  and  to 
create  opportunities 
spiritual 
development  for  all  of  its  children,  which  Chile  has 
never before known. 

How will we do this? First, by strengthening the 
three basic pillars so that development germinates and 
opportunities  flourish.  At 
that 
requires  a  stable,  participatory,  transparent  and  vital 
democracy;  at  the  economic  level,  a  social  market 
economy  open  to  the  world  and  trusting  unreservedly 
in  the  economic  entrepreneurship  and  creativity  of  its 
citizens;  and  at  the  social  level,  a  State  that  is  strong 
and  effective  in  the  fight  against  poverty  and  in 
promoting greater equality of opportunities. 
But we will build upon rock, and not upon sand. 

insufficient.  We  must 
What  was  done  before 
strengthen 
the  pillars  of  society,  knowledge  and 
information.  I  am  thinking  about  the  development  of 
our  human  capital,  which  is  the  greatest  wealth  we 
possess.  We  must 
and 
entrepreneurship,  which  are  the  only  truly  renewable 
and  inexhaustible  natural  resources  that  we  have.  We 
must  invest  in  science  and  technology,  which  will 
create unimaginable opportunities for the future we all 
face, and we must promote more dynamic and flexible 
markets  and  institutions  in  order  to  confront  the 
changes  and  opportunities 
the 
challenges of the modern world. 
For  those  reasons,  almost  65  years  ago,  Chile, 

together  with  50  other  countries,  attended 
the 
formation  of  this  United  Nations,  whose  goal  was  to 
maintain peace, security and international cooperation. 
That  was  the  post-war  period,  when  our  planet  was 
crossed  and  divided  by  two  walls.  One  was  the  iron 
curtain running from north to south, dividing the world 
for a long time into two irreconcilable blocs, each with 
sufficient war-making capacity to annihilate our planet 
several times over. But there was another wall, the one 
running from east to west, which separated the rich and 
prosperous  countries  of  the  North  from  the  poor  and 
underdeveloped nations of the South. 

Both walls fell before our eyes as the sun set on 
the  twentieth  century. The  first  wall  was  in  Berlin,  in 
Central  Europe,  and  the  second  one  in  Silicon Valley, 
Bangalore,  Singapore,  New  Zealand  and  in  the  main 
technological centres throughout the world. But the fall 
of these walls uncovered a third wall, less visible than 
the  previous  ones  but  equally  or  more  harmful  and 
that  have  become 
are 
there 
explains  why 
damaging.  That  wall  has  existed  in  our  countries  and 
peoples forever, separating the older souls who live in 
nostalgia and fear the future from the young souls who 
are creative and entrepreneurial and embrace the future 
fearlessly  and  always  believe  that  the  best  is  still  to 
come. 

That  wall  prevented  many  of  our  nations  from 
joining  the  Industrial  Revolution  in  the  nineteenth 
still 
century.  That 
underdeveloped  countries  while  others,  fewer 
in 
number, managed to demolish that wall in time and to 
join that revolution. 

But today we are confronted by a new revolution, 
more powerful and more significant than the Industrial 
Revolution:  the  revolution  of  knowledge,  technology 
and  the  information  society.  It  has  been  knocking  at 
our doors for several years. It will be very generous to 
the countries that want to embrace it, but tremendously 
indifferent  and  even  cruel  to  those  that  ignore  it  or 
simply  let  it  pass.  And  in  order  to  deepen  our 
integration  and  to  govern  globalization  better  —  lest 
globalization should end up governing us — the crisis 
must be addressed differently. 

The  financial  crisis  has  ceased  to  be  a  national 
problem  and  has  acquired  regional  and  often  global 
implications.  The  evils  of  modern  society  such  as 
terrorism,  drug  trafficking  and  organized  crime  know 
no  frontiers  or  territories  or  jurisdictions.  And  any 
attempts  to  effectively  tackle  global  warming,  natural 
disasters,  health  emergencies,  hunger  or  extreme 
poverty  are  going  to  require  action  that  is  much  more 
attentive,  concerted  and  effective  on  the  part  of  the 
community of nations. 

So  the  United  Nations  and  other  institutions 
deriving  from  the  Bretton  Woods  consensus,  such  as 
the World  Bank  and  the  International  Monetary  Fund, 
urgently need to modernize and adapt to the new times 
if  they  want  to  play  a  leading  role  and  not  be  mere 
spectators of events to which we will be witnesses and 
principal  actors.  Those  new  times  are  the  changes 
already taking place in this new century. 

As  in  1945,  when  Chile  participated  in  the 
creation  of  this  Organization,  and  with  the  authority 
conferred  on  us  by  the  fact  of  having  actively 
participated in each one of its forums — peacekeeping 
operations and humanitarian missions — today we also 
want  to  participate  in  encouraging  and  promoting  the 
great reform and modernization that the United Nations 
26 

10-54833 
this  regard,  we  reiterate  our  appeal  for 


and the international order require. That must be done 
by  creating  a  much  more  demanding  and  efficient 
institution in terms of goals and expectations, one more 
flexible and effective in structure and more determined 
and committed in the defence of the ideals for which it 
was created. 

In other words, we need a United Nations able to 
meet  the  challenges  and  needs  of  the  twenty-first 
century,  which  we  all  know  are  genuine  peace, 
sustainable  progress  and  respect  for  the  dignity  of  all 
those  who  inhabit  our  planet.  Such  reforms  require 
modernizing  the  Security  Council  so  that  it  is  more 
pluralistic and representative of the new global reality. 
In 
the 
incorporation  of  other  emerging  countries,  such  as 
Brazil, on our own continent. 

I should also like to take this opportunity to offer 
my  very  sincere  congratulations  to  my  predecessor  as 
President  of  Chile,  Michelle  Bachelet,  on  her  recent 
appointment  as  Under-Secretary-General  for  Gender 
Equality  and  the  Empowerment  of  Women,  and  to 
express  my  pride  and  that  of  my  whole  nation  at  the 
fact that a compatriot will be head of a global effort to 
achieve greater equality between men and women. I am 
sure  that,  given  her  human  and  professional  qualities, 
she  will  lead  the  new  gender  entity  brilliantly  and 
effectively. 

I  also  wish  to  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  the 
principles  that  have  always  governed  and  guided  our 
foreign  policy,  including  full  respect  for  international 
law,  the  inviolability  of  treaties,  the  juridical  equality 
of  States,  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  the 
self-determination  of  peoples,  which  are  unquestionably 
essential 
international  stability  and 
peaceful coexistence among nations. 

I  also  stress  the  importance  of  the  promotion  of 
democracy and respect for human rights at all times, in 
all  places  and  in  all  circumstances,  and  our  lasting 
commitment  to  multilateralism  and  open  regionalism 
that  promote  constructive  and  more  cooperative 
economic  practices  among  the  countries  of  the  world 
and  of  our  region.  Chile  will  never  cease  to  raise  its 
voice  in  all  international  gatherings  and  forums  to 
defend these principles. 
Here  at  the  United  Nations  today,  I  also  wish  to 

sincerely 
the  aboriginal  peoples  who 
inhabited  our  lands  thousands  of  years  before  the 
European  explorers  and  conquistadors  arrived. We  are 
foundations  of 
recognize 
A/65/PV.12
their 
very  proud  to  be  a  multicultural  nation,  but  we 
recognize  that  we  failed  for  centuries  to  give  our 
aboriginal peoples the opportunities they deserved and 
needed.  That  is  why  we  in  Chile  are  promoting  the 
constitutional recognition of all our aboriginal peoples, 
abandoning  the  strategy  of  assimilation  and  moving 
towards  that  of  integration.  Such  a  strategy  respects, 
values  and  protects 
languages,  culture  and 
traditions,  which  are  part  of  our  deepest  national 
wealth. Along  with  this  constitutional  recognition,  we 
have established a dialogue involving the Government, 
civil  society  and  our  aboriginal  peoples,  in  particular 
the  Mapuche,  to  strengthen  the  agenda  for  historic 
rediscovery  with  the  most  powerful  initiative  ever 
launched  in  Chile  on  this  subject  —  the  Araucanía 
Plan. 

I would also like to recall that only weeks ago my 
country  was  shaken  by  an  event  heard  around  the 
world. A  rockslide  of  more  than  100  million  tons  left 
33  miners  trapped  deep  under  a  mountain  in  the 
Atacama  desert.  From  that  moment,  our  Government 
and  country  committed  themselves  body  and  soul  and 
made  their  very  best  efforts  to  launch  a  search-and-
rescue  operation.  Seventeen  anguishing  days  later,  we 
were able to reach the trapped miners. They sent up a  
message that filled all my compatriots’ hearts with joy: 
“We are okay, we are safe, the 33”. This represents the 
whole  paradox  of  our  country.  We  have  struggled  so 
hard to save the lives of the 33 miners, and yet at the 
same time we have 34 Mapuche herders who are on a 
hunger strike that is killing them. 
I  wish  to  conclude  by  telling  those  assembled 

here that the example of courage and perseverance set 
by our 33 miners will light the path to the future. The 
future is always an adventure. For pessimists, it means 
fear;  for  sceptics,  it  means  doubt;  but  for  all  men  and 
women  of  good  will,  it  always  means  challenges  and 
opportunities  that  we  must  meet  together  in  order  to 
build a better world than the one we inherited from our 
parents, and which we have a duty to  bequeath to our 
children. That challenge, my friends, is for us, and it is 
now, because if it is not now, when, and if not for us, 
then for whom? 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Republic  of  Chile  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 
10-54833 

27 
A/65/PV.12 





  Mr. Sebastian Piñera Echeñique, President of the 
Republic of Chile, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall. 
  Mr.  Tanin  (Afghanistan),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 


Address by Mr. Bamir Topi, President of the 
Republic of Albania 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Albania. 

  Mr.  Bamir  Topi,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Albania, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bamir  Topi,  President  of 
the  Republic  of Albania,  and  to  invite  him  to  address 
the Assembly. 
President  Topi  (spoke  in  Albanian;  English 

interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  a 
special honour for me to address the sixty-fifth session 
of  the  General Assembly.  I  would  like  to  congratulate 
the President on his election to this important position. 
His experience and continuing commitment strengthen 
my conviction that he will take the achievements of his 
predecessor  even  further.  Albania  will  fully  support 
him as he fulfils his mandate. I take this opportunity to 
express  our  special  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  continuing  efforts  to  revitalize  the 
global role of the United Nations, as well as to reform 
the Organization. 

Albania is of the view that the role of the United 
Nations  remains  powerful,  coherent  and  irreplaceable 
as  the  centre  of  effective  global  action.  It  must 
continue to be encouraged and supported in its efforts 
the  challenges  of  achieving  open 
to  overcome 
international  cooperation, 
sustainable  peace  and 
security,  ongoing  development  and  greater  respect  for 
human rights and fundamental freedoms. 

We  live  in  a  global  world,  interconnected  and 
interdependent,  where  States  and  nations  must  assist 
and  support  each  other 
for  a 
comprehensive  answer  to  the  common  problems  and 
new challenges that we face. Multilateralism remains a 
priority  for  the  entire  international  community.  In  this 
context,  a  reformed  United  Nations  —  revitalized, 
the  search 
in 

the 
and 
terrorism, 
issues  of 
dynamic,  powerful  and  effective  —  is  crucial  to  the 
complicated process of global governance. In this path 
of cooperation around the world, the role of the United 
Nations is irreplaceable, especially in regard to how we 
make use of our human and material resources. 

Rapidly  evolving  issues  throughout  the  world, 
each  with  positive  and  negative  consequences  that 
must inevitably influence the challenges the future will 
bring,  must  be  given  special  priority  and  approached 
with  special  care.  The  United  Nations  challenging 
agenda must focus on strengthening peace and security, 
fighting 
stable 
development,  climate  change,  poverty  reduction,  the 
non-proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction, 
natural  disasters,  human  rights,  migration,  and  others. 
Albania  remains  committed  to  contributing  to  this 
agenda. 

The lead role of the Organization and its agencies 
in  administering  its  budgetary  and  human  resources 
should be responsive to the requests of Member States. 
The  establishment  of  the  United  Nations  Entity  for 
Gender  Equality  and  the  Empowerment  of  Women  is 
the most recent example of tangible success in United 
Nations  reform.  Strengthening  the  role  of  women  in 
society will not only enhance political life but also help 
their emancipation and harmonious development. 

The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) are 
a  priority  in  our  work.  Following  the  adoption  of  the 
Millennium Declaration (resolution 55/2) a decade ago, 
Albania  has  advanced  towards  meeting  the  MDGs  in 
all  areas  and  with  respect  to all  indicators.  It  has  also 
made  great  efforts  to  incorporate  the  MDGs  into  its 
national development strategy. 

We are fully committed to reaching the goals set 
forth  in  the  acquis  communautaire  of  the  European 
Union  (EU),  which  requires  increasing  investment  in 
social issues, establishing local and central governance 
systems, and enhancing development capacity in order 
to  guarantee  the  ongoing  improvement  of  the  well-
being  of  the  Albanian  people.  However,  as  a  full-
fledged  member  of  NATO  and  in  the  light  of  its 
internal  democratic  stability,  Albania  is  now  seeking 
greater  standing  in  the  world  as  a  way  to  bolster  its 
development in the long term. 

Delivering as one is a crucial factor in the reform 
designed  to  assist  in  development  around  the  world. 
United  Nations  efforts 
to  establish  system-wide 
coherence  offer  a  real  possibility  to  make  the  United 
28 

10-54833 
has 
Albania 
a  memorandum 


Nations more effective. As a pilot country, Albania is a 
success  story,  having  committed  itself  fully  from  the 
onset.  The  One  United  Nations  concept  in Albania  is 
being  developed  in  complete  harmony  with  national 
sovereignty  and  national  ownership  of  development, 
while  responding  to  the  specific  needs  of  the  country. 
The  responsibility  of  being  a  pilot  country  further 
encourages  us  to  make  this  initiative  a  success.  It  is 
also  an  opportunity  for  us  to  contribute  to  the  overall 
reform of the United Nations. 

of 
signed 
understanding  with  the  United  Nations  Department  of 
Peacekeeping  Operations.  As  a  NATO  member, 
Albania is a force for peace and stability in the region. 
Not  only  does  Albania  follow  a  policy  of  good-
neighbourly  relations  and  strive  for  the  preservation 
and strengthening of stability in its own region, it also 
has  shown  its  interest  in  and  commitment  to  stability 
and  peace  in  other  parts  of  the  world  by  contributing 
military  and  civilian  personnel  to  the  peacekeeping 
missions of various international security organizations 
and  of  the  United  Nations,  including  the  United 
Nations  Mission  in  the  Central  African  Republic  and 
Chad  and  missions  in  Afghanistan  and  Iraq.  We  are 
thus  willing 
troops 
anywhere in the world under the auspices of the United 
Nations and regional security organizations like NATO. 

to  peace, 
international  security  and  world  order.  The  fight 
against terrorism remains a priority that requires great 
determination  resolve.  This  global  threat  may  be 
prevented  and  addressed  through  collective  action, 
strong  responses  and  the  mobilization  of  all  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations.  We  must  show  our 
nations  that,  as  a  part  of  our  responsibility,  we  shall 
stand  resolute  and  united  against  terrorism.  Together, 
we  must  define  a  collective  platform  and  strategy  for 
victory  in  the  war  against  terror  by  strengthening  the 
international system and order. 
We praise and appreciate the work of the Security 

Council  and  its  committees  for  their  engagement  with 
and  active  support  for  Member  States  through  their 
effective  implementation  of  the  Council’s  counter-
terrorism  resolutions,  in  particular  resolutions  1269 
(1999),  1373  (2001),  1540  (2004)  and  1624  (2005). 
Albania  remains  fully  committed  to  cooperating  with 
the Security Council in this regard. 
to  contribute  peacekeeping 
Terrorism  remains  a  major 
threat 
A/65/PV.12
to 
live 
take 
Albania 
the  desire 
appreciates 

the  Secretary-General’s 
contributions  to  addressing  the  issue  of  the  Middle 
East, particularly in the discussions aimed at achieving 
a  sustainable  solution  acceptable  to  all  parties.  All 
peoples  share 
in  peace,  and 
Governments  have  an  obligation  to  guarantee  it.  We 
support the relaunched dialogue process and hope that, 
with  the  commitment  of  the  international  community, 
the  Palestinians  and  Israelis  will 
the  steps 
necessary  to  achieving  stable  peace  in  that  important 
region. 

Albania believes that the Alliance of Civilizations 
is a political means for the United Nations to promote 
peace and harmony among civilizations and to build an 
inclusive society through education, understanding and 
mutual  knowledge.  As  a  member  of  the  Group  of 
Friends, we shall take active part because we believe in 
dialogue  and  contacts  among  different  cultures,  in  the 
need  to  know  and  respect  each  other,  and  in  the 
necessity  of  defending  the  unique  as  part  of  the 
richness  of  the  whole.  Our  approved  national  strategy 
for  intercultural  dialogue  and  the  holding  of  the 
Inter-Religious Forum in Tirana in January have served 
to enrich our experience. However, our participation in 
the Third Global Forum of the Alliance of Civilizations 
led  us 
job  of  fighting 
stereotypes and prejudice is still needed, as are greater 
efforts  to  make  modern  multicultural  societies  more 
cohesive. 

Albania’s integration into and membership of the 
European Union is a key priority of our foreign policy, 
where  there  has  rarely  been  a  broader  political  and 
social consensus. The important steps taken by Albania 
towards EU membership and the phases of cooperation 
under  the  framework  of  the  integration  process  have 
shown a great deal of potential. 

The  end  of  this  year  promises  to  be  decisive  as 
we  approach  two  decisions  of  great  importance:  the 
completion  of  the  visa  liberalization  process  with  the 
EU  and  the  achievement  of  candidate  status  for  EU 
membership. Albanians will finally be able to enjoy the 
real  freedom  for  which  they  fought  and  sacrificed 
longer  and  more  deeply  than  any  other  European 
nation.  The  near-unanimous  decision  of  the  European 
Parliament’s  Committee  on  Foreign Affairs  to  remove 
the requirement that Albanians obtain visas to enter the 
EU not only gives us great joy, but also confers greater 
responsibility  on  us  to  fulfil  our  commitments  as  we 
prepare for EU membership. 
that  a  better 
to  believe 
10-54833 

29 
for 
the 
in  NATO 
responsibility 
Albania’s  membership 
A/65/PV.12 


We guarantee that the seriousness with which we 
completed  the  EU  questionnaire  and  our  responsible 
approach  to  our  relations  with  all  European  Union 
institutions  and  member  countries  will  remain  the 
hallmarks of our efforts to earn the status of candidate 
country at the earliest possible date. 

its 
integration  into  the  European  Union  are  important 
regional processes inseparable from the full integration 
of  the  region.  We  believe  that  every  Western  Balkan 
country is entitled to play a role in contributing to and 
assuming 
integration  and 
emancipation of the region. I am happy to acknowledge 
that the high level of regional cooperation and political 
awareness  show  that  the  only  way  forward  is  through 
Euro-Atlantic integration. 

These are hopeful and promising times, now that 
the  bitter  past  of  that  part  of  Europe  has  been 
consigned  to  history.  Albania  and  Albanians  will 
continue  to  contribute  to  stability,  security,  long-term 
peace and economic growth by encouraging integration 
policies  related  not  just  to  security  and  economic 
development, but also to coexistence among countries, 
peoples and nations, cultures, traditions and history. 

A  few  days  ago,  a  rare  occurrence  took  place  in 
this  very  Hall  with  the  adoption  by  consensus  of 
resolution 64/298 on the international legitimacy of the 
declaration of Kosovo’s independence. That was a very 
important  event  for  Kosovo,  Serbia,  the  Western 
Balkans,  a  united  Europe  and  the  United  Nations.  I 
would like to express my gratitude for the commitment 
and  engagement  of  all  international  actors,  especially 
the European Union, which imbued the resolution with 
the contemporary philosophy and openness of Europe. 
The  European  Union  showed  its  cohesiveness  and 
proved  that  the  integration  policies  of  our  region  are 
unstoppable and full of hope, and that the only way to 
unite with Europe is through dialogue and cooperation 
among neighbouring countries. 

Now that the matter of the status of Kosovo and 
its  borders  has  been  settled  definitively,  it  is  time  to 
begin a dialogue on practical issues. We hope that the 
message  enshrined  in  the  resolution  will  immediately 
be put into practice by the two independent countries. 
We support the immediate launch of dialogue between 
Kosovo  and  Serbia.  We 
sincere  and 
constructive  dialogue  to  resolve  practical  issues  of 
interest  to  the  daily  concerns  of  their  citizens,  to  help 
support 

and 
resolve 
the  problems  and 
them and to facilitate and even calm the situation of the 
respective Albanian  and  Serbian  minorities.  It  is  time 
to 
issues  concerning 
representation,  language  and  education,  among  others, 
in the spirit and vision of a common European future. 

Albania  considers  the  consensus  adoption  of 
resolution  64/298  to  be  an  important  step  not  only  in 
respect  of  the  advisory  opinion  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  and  the  authority  of  the  United 
Nations,  but  also  for  the  consolidation  of  the  State  of 
Kosovo  and  its  democratic  and  European  institutions, 
its  independence  and  integrity,  and  its  future  as  a 
Member of the United Nations. 

Albania  appreciates  the  work  of  the  Security 
Council in its engagement towards the implementation 
of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  international  law, 
to  peaceful  coexistence  and 
which  are  essential 
cooperation  among  Member  States 
in  addressing 
common  challenges  and  contributing  to  international 
peace and security. 

The  advisory  opinion  of  the  International  Court 
of  Justice  legally  confirmed  that  the  independence  of 
Kosovo  remains  a  sui  generis  case  that  does  not  set  a 
precedent for situations in other countries. Now is the 
time  to  prove  with  concrete  facts  that  we  respect  the 
United Nations and the values that have united us here 
today.  Today  is  the  day  to  testify  that  we  support  its 
authority  and  its  independent  institutions.  Today  is  a 
golden opportunity to accept the truth and to declare it 
loudly. 
Today, we have a responsibility towards a country 

and a people that rightly wish to be among us and have 
given ample evidence that they truly deserve it. I take 
this  opportunity  to  appeal  to  my  colleagues,  whose 
countries have not yet recognized the independence of 
Kosovo, to recognize it now, by assuring them that this 
is the only way to contribute to long-term stability and 
peace, not just in the region but also globally. 
In conclusion, I would like to confirm once again 

that  Albania  is  determined  to  continue  to  support  the 
United Nations agenda and the stronger functioning of 
the Organization at all levels. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Albania for the statement he has just made. 
30 

10-54833 





  Mr.  Bamir  Topi,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Albania, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 

into 
Address by Mr. Leonel Fernández Reyna, President 
of the Dominican Republic 
The Acting  President:  The Assembly  with  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Dominican 
Republic. 

  Mr.  Leonel  Fernández  Reyna,  President  of  the 
Dominican  Republic,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Leonel  Fernández  Reyna, 
President of the Dominican Republic, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly. 
President Fernández Reyna (spoke in Spanish): 

Eight years after Switzerland became a full Member of 
the  United  Nations,  we  are  delighted  to  see  that  the 
presidency  of  this  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth 
session  fell  to  the  2004  President  of  the  Swiss 
Confederation, Mr. Joseph Deiss, to whom we wish the 
greatest success in his tenure. 

In  1998,  the  twentieth  special  session  of  the 
General  Assembly  was  held  to  contribute  to  the 
elimination  or  substantial  reduction  of  the  illegal 
production of drugs and drug abuse by 2008. Ten years 
later,  at  a  follow-up  review  meeting  supported  by  this 
prestigious  world  body,  the  conclusion  was  reached 
that  little  progress  had  been  made  regarding  the 
proposed goals and that there were therefore plenty of 
reasons 
to  be 
concerned about the growing threat posed by the global 
drug  problem.  It  was  determined  that  a  new  10-year 
plan was needed to  cover  the period  until 2019, when 
the General Assembly will have once again to convene 
Member  States  in  order  to  assess  the  outcome  of 
measures  implemented  to  eliminate  the  most  serious 
threat to our citizens’ safety at the dawn of the twenty-
first century: transnational organized crime and illegal 
drug trafficking. 
Today,  almost  250  million  people  between  the 

ages of 15 and 64 consume drugs worldwide. Although 
that  consumption  extends  to  many  regions  around  the 
world,  the  highest  concentration  of  users  is  found  in 
areas  with  the  most  pronounced  economic  and  social 
international  community 
the 
for 
A/65/PV.12
the  gross  domestic  product  of  122  of 
development,  such  as  the  United  States,  Western 
Europe and Central Asia. 

Drug  consumption  is  harmful  to  health,  causing 
personality  disorders  that  often  lead  to  loss  of  will, 
apathy and the development of pathological behaviour. 
Furthermore,  tens  of  thousands  of  people  die  every 
year  as  a  direct  result  of  drug  consumption,  while 
others,  depending  on  the  way  these  toxic  substances 
are  consumed,  are  affected  by  diseases  such  as 
HIV/AIDS and hepatitis C. 
Today, illegal drug trafficking constitutes a global 

black  market,  a  kind  of  underground  or  hidden 
economy for the growth, manufacture, distribution and 
sale  of  this  merchandise  in  the  form  of  marijuana, 
opium,  heroin,  cocaine,  methamphetamines  and  other 
varieties  of  such  substances  and  others.  That  market, 
which is ruled like any other by the laws of supply and 
demand,  now  amounts  to  the  astronomical  sum  of 
approximately  $400  billion  a  year.  That  astronomical 
sum  means  that  the  global  drug  trade  is  worth  more 
than 
the 
184 countries  that  appear  on  the  annual  World  Bank 
economic  index.  Every  year,  the  global  drug  market 
generates  more  wealth  than  countries  such  as  Chile, 
Denmark,  Egypt,  Finland,  Israel,  South  Africa  and 
Portugal.  But,  at 
is  more 
economically  powerful  than  many  of  the  world’s 
leading petroleum producing countries such as Kuwait, 
Qatar,  Iraq, 
the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. 

In pursuit of its goals of conquering markets and 
accumulating wealth, transnational organized crime has 
begun  availing  itself  of  a  new  type  of  unprecedented, 
inhumane  and  cruel  violence.  Drug  trafficking  uses 
kidnapping,  contract  killings,  torture  and  beheadings 
both  in  battles  between  drug  trafficking  groups  and 
against  the  people  and  institutions  that  confront  them. 
Drug trafficking sows fear and terror. It executes public 
servants  as  well  as  ordinary  citizens.  It  murders 
journalists, teachers, doctors, students and housewives. 
Drug  trafficking  knows  no  limits  or  borders;  it  knows 
only horror, barbarism, bloodshed and crime. 

It  is  so  powerful  that  it influences  and  interferes 
in vital areas of government, such as the armed forces, 
the police, intelligence services and the justice system, 
in  its  attempt  to  make  State  institutions  serve  its 
macabre and sinister interests. 
the  United  Arab  Emirates  and 
the  same 
time, 
it 
10-54833 

31 

A/65/PV.12 


In the face of all of this, some people are right to 
wonder  whether  transnational  organized  crime  and 
illegal international drug trafficking can be defeated. Is 
it really possible to tackle and defeat all that this form 
of international crime entails? 

Our response is: yes, it is possible. It is possible 
to take it on and to defeat it. It is possible to reduce it 
and to mitigate its harmful effects. However, to do so, 
several  elements  need  to  be  in  place.  First,  we  need 
genuine  commitment  at  the  global  level  and  authentic 
and  genuine  political  will  at  the  level  of  national 
Government. 

We  also  need  a  paradigm  change  or  a  new 
strategic  vision  that  will  focus  our  efforts  to  fight  the 
problem,  not  only  on 
the  supply  side,  as  has 
fundamentally  been  the  case  so  far,  but  also  on  the 
demand and consumption side.  

It  is  imperative  that  we  curb  indiscriminate  gun 
sales  and  human  trafficking.  We  need  to  implement 
exchange and cooperation policies among the narcotics 
producer,  transit  and  consumer  countries.  We  need  to 
introduce  new  technologies,  strengthen  intelligence 
systems,  better  train  and  enhance  the  professionalism 
of  those  in  charge  of  ensuring  public  safety,  design 
prevention  mechanisms, 
educational 
opportunities,  reduce  poverty  and  create  jobs,  and  get 
communities  involved  in  building  protective  networks 
against crime. 

the  General 
Assembly  convenes  its  member  States  to  evaluate  the 
outcome  of  its  new  10-year  Plan  of  Action  on 
International  Cooperation  towards  an  Integrated  and 
Balanced Strategy to Counter the World Drug Problem 
(see resolution 64/182), we will be in a position to say, 
for  the  sake  of  our  families,  our  young  people,  our 
societies and, ultimately, of humanity as a whole, “We 
have prevailed. We have defeated the leading threat to 
the security our peoples at the beginning of the twenty-
first century. We have beaten drugs.” 

It  is  important  also  to  note  that  the  human  and 
material  losses  experienced  as  a  result  of  natural 
disasters in 2010 are a great cause for concern. To date, 
we  have  seen  47  floods  and  landslides,  affecting 
countries  as  far  apart  as  India  and  Brazil,  China  and 
Colombia,  Russia  and  Congo,  Kazakhstan  and 
countries of East Africa, Mexico and Central America, 
Pakistan, Yemen and the Sudan. 
in  2019,  when 
We  hope 
generate 
that, 

To date, there have been 12 hurricanes, cyclones 
and  typhoons,  affecting  countries  such  as  Mexico, 
India,  the  Solomon  Islands  and  Madagascar.  To  date, 
we  have  suffered  eight  serious  droughts,  followed  by 
fires,  in  Bolivia,  California,  the  Caribbean,  China, 
Spain  and  Russia.  To  date,  there  have  been  seven 
earthquakes,  from  the  tragedy  in  Haiti  to  China,  from 
Tajikistan to Chile, and from Afghanistan to Mexico. 

That  does  not  include  the  volcanic  eruptions  — 
these too made no distinction between rich and poor. In 
the case of Iceland, the volcano led to the most serious 
interruption of air traffic since the Second World War. 
In addition, we need to take into account the numerous 
cold  snaps,  avalanches  and  storms  that  have  occurred 
and their resultant epidemics — foremost among them, 
cholera  in  Africa  and  dengue  fever  in  Latin  America 
and the Caribbean. 

As  we  can  see,  vulnerability  to  natural  disasters 
around the world is on the rise, and development levels 
are  falling  quickly  as  a  result.  Most  of  these  natural 
disasters  are  caused  by  climate  change  or  global 
warming. It is therefore imperative that this world body 
adopt,  as  soon  as  possible,  guidelines  to  regulate  the 
emission of  carbon dioxide and to protect the planet’s 
biodiversity. 

There is much work to be done around the world 
to  draw  up  and  adopt  policies  and  practices  that  will 
enable us to prevent the impact of natural disasters. In 
this  context, 
risk 
management  into  development  and  land-use  planning. 
We  need  to  design  and  implement  early  warning 
systems  in  coastal  areas,  cities  at  risk,  schools  and 
hospitals.  And  we  need  urgently  to  re-equip  critical 
infrastructure to ensure that it is adequate to withstand 
future catastrophes and to minimize human loss. Faced 
with this situation, the Dominican Republic intends to 
participate actively in the work of the Global Platform 
for  Disaster  Risk  Reduction,  whose  next  meeting  will 
take place in Geneva, Switzerland, in May 2011. 

Likewise,  with  advisory  assistance  from  the 
United  Nations  Development  Programme  and  New 
York’s  Columbia  University,  in  October  we  will  be 
meeting with the ministers responsible for social policy 
as well as the mayors of cities at greatest risk in order 
to  review  ongoing  activities  in  the  integration  and 
planning of natural disaster risk management. 
Finally,  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 

suggest, as we did during a visit to L’Aquila, Italy, that 
incorporate 
is  crucial 
to 
it 
32 

10-54833 


the  United  Nations  system  create  a  world  alliance  of 
countries  at  risk  in  order  to  exchange  experiences, 
knowledge  and ideas,  and to pass  along  best practices 
learned during catastrophes. We are convinced that this 
would  be  a  major  contribution  to  the  design  and 
implementation  of  measures  that  will  help  save  lives 
and minimize material damage. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly  I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Dominican  Republic  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

  Mr.  Leonel  Fernández  Reyna,  President  of  the 
Dominican  Republic,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
from 




Address by Ms. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of the 
Republic of Lithuania 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Lithuania. 

  Ms. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of the Republic 
of  Lithuania,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Dalia  Grybauskaitė, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Lithuania,  and  to  invite 
her to address the Assembly. 
President  Grybauskaitė:  I  am  delighted  and 

privileged to address this Assembly. I believe that this 
is  the  right  place  to  discuss  the  issues  of  greatest 
concern  to  the  international  community.  Recent  years 
have  been  marked  by  many  challenges. All  countries, 
large  and  small,  had  to  tackle  the  financial  and 
economic  downturn.  They  also  had  to  deal  with  the 
painful  consequences  of  natural  and  man-created 
disasters.  In  a  global  world,  all  our  countries  must 
share  responsibility  for  the  future.  The  scale  of  our 
deeds  and  the  openness  of  our  hearts  will  make  the 
difference, not the size of our countries and territories. 
Here, I would like to share some views of my country, 
Lithuania. 

Let  me  start  with  our  proposals  in  the  fields  of 
security  and  the  environment.  Lithuania  has  launched 
an  initiative  to  introduce  in  the  General  Assembly  a 
draft  resolution  on  sea-dumped  chemical  weapons. 
Lithuania  wants  to  strengthen  international  efforts  in 
A/65/PV.12
is  another 
Gender  equality 
raising  public  awareness  about  dangerous  munitions 
buried  in  the  sea.  It  is  in  every  country’s  interest  to 
support  a  voluntary  information  exchange  in  order  to 
strengthen  common  security.  Everyone  must  be  aware 
how  lethally  dangerous  these  dumped  chemicals  still 
are.  We  need  to  have  guidelines  on  how  to  behave  in 
case  of  disaster.  That 
is  why  United  Nations 
involvement  and  an  eventual  resolution  on  this  issue 
are so indispensable. That is why I call on the United 
Nations  to  take  a  much  more  active  role  in  very 
concrete  projects,  even  if  they  may  not  seem  big 
enough for global attention. 

topic  of  vital 
importance for the nations of the world. We decided to 
promote  it  in  the  framework  of  the  Community  of 
Democracies.  That  is  another  example  of  precisely 
focused  action.  Gender  equality  issues  are  rarely 
associated  with  issues  like  overcoming  the  economic 
crisis or stopping climate change. However, it has been 
estimated that the elimination of gender discrimination 
in  the  labour  market  in  Europe,  for  example,  could 
increase gross domestic product by as much as 30 per 
cent. 

It seems that the Lithuanian people have decided 
to  test  this  estimate  in  practice,  and  I  can  give  an 
example.  It  is  no  surprise  to  us  that  women  in 
Lithuania hold a number of top positions in politics and 
business. It is only natural that Lithuanian women have 
made  their  own  the  famous  saying:  When  the  going 
gets tough, the tough get going. But we still need much 
more  coordinated  effort.  Gender  equality  on  a  global 
scale will become possible only when a certain level of 
security and economic development is achieved. Let us 
all  put  all  our  efforts  together  to  eradicate  intolerance 
and  discrimination,  which  so  often  are  the  main 
reasons  for  the  many  conflicts  in  the  world.  By  doing 
this we also pave the road to achieving the Millennium 
Development  Goals  that  we  all  aspire  to.  European 
Union  activities  such  as  the  European  Institute  for 
Gender Equality, based in Lithuania, can serve to lead 
other  regions.  I  strongly  hope  that  the  high-level 
meeting  on  gender  equality  issues  which  will  be  held 
within 
the  Community  of 
Democracies  in  Vilnius,  Lithuania,  on  30  June  next 
year  will  explore  many  more  new  ideas  and  good 
practices. 

Security, the environment and gender equality: all 
are  interdependent,  and  all  need  to  be  adequately 
addressed  on  the  international  agenda.  That  is  a 
framework  of 
the 
10-54833 

33 

limited 
the  national  security 
A/65/PV.12 

prerequisite for ensuring sustainable development. The 
European  Union  has  been  for  years  the  largest  and 
most  responsible  donor  worldwide,  the  best  example 
for  any  country  willing  to  contribute. These  European 
values  are  very  dear  to  my  country,  which  has  been  a 
member  of  the  European  Union  since  2004.  Lithuania 
has 
resources,  but  we  have  provided 
humanitarian aid to Haiti, Pakistan, Moldova, Ukraine, 
Russia and other countries. 
We  have  engaged  in  such  difficult  initiatives  as 

the 
training  of 
forces  of 
Afghanistan. Working together with the people of Ghor 
province  in  Afghanistan,  Lithuania  has  funded  a 
number  of  community-based  education  programmes, 
built 19 schools which have opened up their doors also 
for  girls,  founded  the  first  public  library  in  the 
province’s capital of Chaghcharan. That is our modest 
contribution, but it works. I am sure that each time we 
implement  a  concrete  project  we  move  closer  to 
achieving our global objectives all together. 

I invite all the leaders gathered here to contribute. 
We  should  welcome,  support  and  multiply  any  and 
every  constructive  effort,  however  small  it  may  seem 
to us. Only joint efforts and concrete deeds will bring 
positive change to international politics. Let us develop 
initiatives, let us implement them, let us implement the 
best practices and let us work together. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Lithuania for the statement she has just made. 

  Ms. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of the Republic 
of  Lithuania,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 



Address by Mr. Evo Morales Ayma, President of the 
Plurinational State of Bolivia 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Plurinational 
State of Bolivia. 

  Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma,  President  of 
the 
Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia,  was  escorted  into 
the General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma, 
President  of  the  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 

President  Morales  Ayma  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

This is the first time I have participated in the general 
debate  since  the  declaration  of  the  Plurinational  State 
of Bolivia and my fifth as President — since I took on 
enormous  responsibilities  towards  my  people,  acting 
through social movements. 

I would like to quickly say that in four and a half 
years in government, we have begun to bring profound 
structural  and  social  change  to  Bolivia.  Fortunately, 
two  weeks  ago,  the  United  Nations  recognized  that 
extreme poverty had decreased from 41 to 32 per cent. 
In  four  and  a  half  years,  our  small  country  of 
10 million  inhabitants  has  seen  its  national  reserves 
grow  from  $1.7  billion  to  $9  billion.  The  rate  of 
economic growth is currently 5 per cent, while before I 
arrived it was barely 3 per cent. 

There has been a democratization of the national 
economy,  with  grants  and  subsidies  that  have  allowed 
for  the  improvement  of  the  economic  situation  of  the 
poorest  and  most  abandoned  —  in  particular  those  of 
the  rural  and  indigenous  movement,  but  also  our 
brothers  and  sisters  the  workers,  and  our  brothers  and 
sisters from the barrios of Bolivia’s big cities. 

However,  the  improvement  of  our  economy  has 
basically  come  with  the  recovery  of  our  oil  and  gas 
reserves,  and  with  the  nationalization  of  these  natural 
resources.  Let  me  say  that  earlier,  and  unfortunately, 
under  instructions  from  the  International  Monetary 
Fund  (IMF),  our  natural  resources  were  privatized. 
Moreover, the IMF contracts stated that the owner, the 
transnational oil company, would have the rights from 
the wellhead. The Fund Governors were telling us that 
as long as the oil or gas was underground, it belonged 
to the Bolivian State and the Bolivian people, but that 
once it was taken out and reached the wellhead, it was 
the  property  of 
these 
mega-fields the oil transnationals received 82 per cent 
of  the  gas  and  oil  revenue,  while  the  Bolivian  people 
were left with only 18 per cent. 

It  is  a  matter  of  responsibility.  Countries  that 
invest  have  the  right  to  recover  their  investment  and 
they have the right to make profits, but not 82 per cent 
of all of the profits from our oil and gas resources. On 
1  May  2006,  the  Government  decreed,  first,  that  the 
State  would 
take  control  of  all  oil  fields.  We 
nationalized  them.  Secondly,  so  that  the  investing 
company, seeking to recover their investment, could do 
so  and  make  a  profit.  We  looked  at  the  numbers 
transnationals.  From 
the 
34 

10-54833 


carefully in order to ensure that the company would not 
be  harmed.  Our  data  showed  that  with  18  per  cent  of 
the  profit,  they  would  recover  their  investment  and 
they would even have access to profits. 

What I did with our supreme decree, after taking 
total State control of gas and oil, was to ensure that the 
State, the Bolivian people, received 82 per cent of the 
profits  and  the  investing  oil  company,  18  per  cent. 
These companies continue to be present in our country 
and  continue  to  invest  in  Bolivia.  We  had  discovered 
that  there  was  an  ongoing  sacking  of  our  natural 
resources  and  this  alone  has  brought  changes  to  our 
economy.  For  example,  since  1940,  Bolivia  had  never 
had  a  budget  surplus,  only  deficits.  But  once  we  had 
nationalized  oil  and  gas,  in  2006,  the  first  year  of  my 
administration, we had a surplus. With this surplus, we 
were  able to  provide grants and subsidies for some of 
the most vulnerable sectors of the population, namely, 
young people and the elderly. 

In February 2003, when I was a union leader and 
National  Deputy,  the  International  Monetary  Fund 
instructed  the  then  Government  to  institute  an  income 
tax  or  to  increase  fuel  prices  in  order  to  decrease  the 
budget deficit — not to eliminate it, but to decrease it. 
The  Government  decided  to  institute  an  income  tax. 
There  was  an  uprising  by  those  affected  by  this  tax, 
and in two days of confrontation there were 15 dead. 

I  would  like  to  say  from  here  at  the  United 
Nations  to  the  world  and  to  the  Bolivian  people  that, 
without  income  taxes  and  without  increasing  fuel 
prices,  we  had  a  surplus  in  the  first  year  of  our 
administration.  It  was  so  important  to  have  recovered 
our  natural  resources  and  to  have  recovered  our 
companies providing basic services. 
Sooner  or  later  the  International  Monetary  Fund 

has to redress the damage it has done to Bolivia and to 
Latin  America.  But  it  appears  that  the  International 
Monetary  Fund,  under 
the  pretext  of  structural 
adjustment,  is  continuing  to  impose  policies  on  some 
countries  —  policies  of  pillaging  natural  resources.  It 
did  us  great  harm.  I  am  demanding  officially  that  the 
International  Monetary  Fund  pay  for  the  economic 
damage and the damage to human beings that resulted 
from  these  impositions  which,  in  Bolivia,  resulted  in 
death, injury and hunger. 

  Ms. Lucas (Luxembourg), Vice-President, took the 
Chair. 

A/65/PV.12

So  I  am  very  pleased  that  we  have  begun  to 
change Bolivia. Of course, it is impossible to meet all 
the  demands  that  our  indigenous  brethren  have  been 
making for 500 years, or that other brethren or regions 
have  been  making  for  hundreds  of  years  —  or  indeed 
the  demands  which  have  arisen  from  20  years  of 
neoliberal Government in our country. 

We  are  living  in  times  of  deep  and  sweeping 
changes. We have an enormous responsibility to future 
generations. The fate of Planet Earth depends on what 
we do or do not do. 
We  know  ourselves.  We  have  many  ideological 

differences.  We  have  many  differences 
in  our 
programmes,  our  cultures  and  our  societies.  We  have 
many  differences  from  one  continent  to  another.  The 
economic asymmetries are profound. But despite these 
differences  we  at  the  United  Nations  must  work 
together,  united.  Why  united?  We  must  be  united  so 
that  human  rights  will  be  well  and  truly  protected 
around the world. I come here to propose an alliance of 
all  presidents  and  Governments  so  that  we  can  save 
humankind  and  save  Planet  Earth  —  or  save 
humankind by saving Planet Earth. 

There are four main objectives, the first being the 
protection  of  human  rights.  I  commend  the  many 
Governments  that  last  week  adopted  a  proposal  from 
the  Government  of  the  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia 
that water be recognized as a human right. Next will be 
energy  and  after  that  communication.  We  must  move 
the  most 
forward  and  respond 
vulnerable  — 
the 
migrants.  All  basic  services  in  Bolivia  are  a  human 
right  under  the  Constitution.  And  we  are  currently 
translating  that  concept  into  practice,  so  that  all  these 
basic services will truly be a human right. That is why 
I think it important to have an alliance now, in this new 
millennium, to see that human rights are guaranteed for 
all. 

I should also like to say that it is indefensible in 
the  twenty-first  century  to  continue  to  persecute  and 
expel  migrants  —  whether  they  are  migrants  because 
of economic problems or because of climate change or 
a natural disaster. I would like to take this opportunity 
to  say  that  I  learned  from  the  media  that  President 
Obama is rejecting the Arizona law. We must recognize 
the  need  to  put  an  end  to  policies  —  wherever  they 
originate,  including  the  return  policies  of  Europe  — 
that  have  the  effect  of  expelling  migrants.  When  our 
the  needs  of 
the  disenfranchised, 
to 
the  poor, 
10-54833 

35 

A/65/PV.12 

ancestors  migrated  because  of  war  or  famine  from 
Europe  to  Latin  America  there  was  no  expulsion  of 
migrants.  Those  European  migrants 
took  over 
thousands  of  hectares  and  pillaged  natural  resources, 
and  no  one  said  anything.  But  now  that  our  brothers 
and sisters, driven by lack of work, emigrate in search 
of  jobs  in  the  United  States  or  Europe,  they  suffer 
persecution,  discrimination  and  expulsion. This  has  to 
stop. Our alliance must also examine the fate of these 
brothers and sisters. 

I  have  also  heard  it  said  that  walls  or  fences  are 
being  built  in,  for  example,  Mexico  and  Palestine. As 
far  as  I  know,  fences  are  only  built  to  keep  in  cattle, 
sheep and cows. We cannot confuse human beings with 
animals and build fences to keep them in. It makes no 
sense.  But  I  also  want  to  say:  how  can  we  prevent 
human  beings  from  going  from  one  continent  to 
another? We have heard much opinion in this debate on 
the subject of free-market policies. Are commodities to 
circulate  freely  around  the  world  but  not  human 
beings?  What  type  of  discriminatory  policies  do  we 
have? Those walls of shame must disappear. I listened 
carefully  to  the  address  by  the  Secretary-General.  He 
wants  the  United  Nations  to  be  strong  in  the  interests 
of  good  governance.  I  share  that  opinion  but  believe 
that  we  can  only  achieve  this  when  we  resolve  the 
problems of the world’s most defenceless people, who 
are  migrants  in  this  case.  And  that  is  why  it  is 
important for us to be rid of these walls. 

But there is something else that is unthinkable in 
the  twenty-first  century:  the  economic  blockade  of 
Cuba.  Everyone  calls  for  the  lifting  of  this  embargo, 
imposed  because  Cuba  was  a  Communist  or  socialist 
country.  I  want  you  to  know  that  I  too  preside  over  a 
Government  that  is  anti-capitalist,  which,  I  think,  is 
why  the  United  States  Department  of  State  tries  to 
marginalize  and  exclude  us.  That  is  not  a  solution. 
People  will  continue  to  rebel  against  systems  and 
economic  models  that  do  not  resolve  the  problems  of 
the  majority  in  all  our  countries.  I  respectfully  ask 
President  Obama  to  put  an  end  to  the  economic 
blockade  of  Cuba  and  the  economic  blockade  of  the 
Gaza  Strip  in  Palestine.  If  the  United  States  is  —  and 
we all know  this to be the case — the  supreme world 
Power, it has the authority to end this injustice and this 
violation  of  the  human  rights  of  millions  around  the 
world. 
this  alliance  of 

Governments  to  save  humanity  is  its  most  important 
The  second  objective  of 
live 
right 
in  harmony  with  Mother  Earth, 
responsibility: determining how to save  Mother Earth. 
What  concerns  me  greatly  is  that  some  countries, 
instead  of  conserving  Nature,  are  looking  at  how  to 
make a business out of climate change, putting a price 
on Nature. We must not privatize our forests; we must 
not sell carbon bonds as if the forest’s only role were to 
absorb  carbon  dioxide.  Any  country  that  does  so  is 
making a grave mistake. 

I  want  to  share  something  from  our  culture  and 
our experience in the indigenous world. We indigenous 
peoples 
in 
harmony with Nature. Why do we live in harmony with 
Nature? We came from the Earth, we live on the Earth 
and  to  earth  we  will  return.  The  Earth,  Planet  Earth, 
Nature,  “Pachamama”,  Mother  Earth  —  this  is  our 
home, this is our mother. The Earth gives us life: water, 
natural  resources,  the  abundance  of  Nature.  How  can 
we turn Mother Nature into a business? 

Because  of  the  discussion  I  have  with  social 
movements  around 
the  world,  particularly  with 
indigenous movements, I am convinced that the planet 
can  exist  without  human  beings,  but  human  beings 
cannot exist without the planet. As human beings have 
rights,  like  the  right  to  life,  so  too  does  the  planet, 
Mother Nature, have the right to life. Just as we human 
beings 
to 
regenerate.  For  these  and  many  other  reasons  besides, 
we have the obligation to save Planet Earth. 

Within that context, our proposal is quite simple. 
Here at the United Nations we must develop a project 
to  protect  the  rights  of  Mother  Earth.  This  morning 
President  Obama  referred  to  the  adoption  in  1948  of 
the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  at  the 
United Nations. That was 62 years ago; before that we 
did not have rights. Later civil, economic and political 
rights  were  adopted.  Three  years  ago  the  rights  of 
indigenous  peoples  were  adopted  here.  Now  in  this 
millennium  we  should  adopt  the  rights  of  Mother 
Earth. And if we do not do this, we will be responsible 
for a world disaster. 

To take an example: in a plane some people travel 
in  first  class,  others  in  business  class,  while  the 
majority  travel  in  coach,  economy  class.  If  the  plane 
crashes,  no  one  survives  —  neither  the  first-class 
passenger  nor  the  economy-class  passenger.  Is  that 
what  we  want?  It  will  be  the  same  if  we  do  not  save 
Mother  Earth. The  transnational  company  with  lots  of 
money,  the  millionaire  —  all  of  us  will  be  equally 
reproduce,  biodiversity  has  a 
36 

10-54833 


affected by the environmental problems that come with 
climate change. 

That is why I want to tell you how important it is 
that we prepare for Cancún, where we will have a great 
opportunity.  I  will  propose  there  that  we  have  an 
alliance of all the presidents and heads of government 
of  the  world,  headed  by  the  Secretary-General  of  the 
United Nations. What will the alliance be for? So that 
together we can determine how to cool the planet. We 
are talking about global warming. How can we cool the 
planet?  We,  as  peoples  and  Governments,  are 
responsible for humankind. The people, at a summit in 
Cochabamba,  Bolivia,  said  that  we  must  stabilize  the 
temperature 
increase  at  1  degree  Celsius.  The 
developed  countries,  which  are  primarily  responsible 
for  global  warming,  must  commit  to  reducing  their 
greenhouse  gas  emissions  by  50  per  cent  during  the 
second period of the Kyoto Protocol. Let us assume our 
responsibilities to cool Planet Earth. 

I  would  like  to  discuss  the  serious  situation  in 
which my country finds itself. We sometimes buy drills 
to  deal  with  droughts,  and  yet  even  by  drilling  we 
cannot find water. And if we do find it, it is buried ever 
deeper  and  occurs  in  ever-smaller  quantities.  Soon, 
despite all our drilling to obtain water, we will not find 
it. So what use will the drills be then? Our mountains 
are losing their snow fields. This is extremely serious. I 
therefore  find  it  extremely  important  that  we  stabilize 
the  temperature  increase  at  1  degree  Celsius,  as  the 
people of the world have said. 

The  third  objective,  so  frequently  mentioned  in 
statements, is peace. We are all fighting for peace. We 
are all fighting for freedom, but the basis of freedom is 
equality  and  justice  for  all  peoples.  There  will  not  be 
peace  without  social  justice.  Moreover,  peace  is  not 
made  with  military  bases;  peace  is  not  ensured  by 
military  interventions  undertaken  on  the  pretext  of 
fighting  against  drug  trafficking  and  terrorism  but 
really  aimed  at  developing  geopolitical  interests  — 
aims  I  do  not  share.  Yes,  we  must  combat  drug 
trafficking.  The  best  way  to  do  so,  I  would  say,  is  to 
put  an  end  to  banking  secrecy.  It  is  not  right  that  the 
United  States  Government  should  decertify  countries 
that are not following the capitalist line. The Bolivian 
Government is making an  effort to reduce coca crops. 
But  while  the  major  cocaine-producing  countries  are 
certified,  the  country  that  makes  a  real  effort  against 
drug trafficking, a small country, is decertified. 
is 
10-54833 

37 
A/65/PV.12
the 
interventions 
to 
is  not  recognized,  which 

These are, of course, political decisions, and that 
is  why  I  draw  the  conclusion  that  anti-imperialist, 
anti-capitalist  countries  will  never  be  certified  by  the 
United  States  Government.  In  the  end,  this  does  not 
concern  or  affect  my  Government.  We  are  convinced 
that  there  will  be  this  type  of  scare  tactic,  harassment 
and  intimidation.  That  has  always  existed.  But  there 
are  contradictions  here  as  well.  The  United  Nations 
tells  us  that  coca  cultivation  has  increased  by  1  per 
cent, while the United States Department of State says 
that coca crops have increased by 9.4 per cent. Whom 
are  we  to  believe  —  the  United  States  or  the  United 
Nations? Imagine the spin that is put on this to penalize 
a  Government  or  a  country. The  reports  recognize  the 
strong  efforts  undertaken  by  the  national  Government 
in the fight against drug trafficking. For example, dried 
coca is down to 43,000 tons from 43,500. But even this 
effort 
is  why  we  are 
convinced that this is clearly a political problem. 
I believe that it is important to put an end to the 

acts  of  aggression, 
in  such 
countries as Afghanistan and Iraq, and to the threats to 
Iran.  Let  us  put  an  end  to  the  entire  nuclear  arsenal, 
because  the  nuclear  arsenal  is  a  threat  to  life.  Let  us 
begin with the United States and then continue with all 
the  other  countries. And  this  is  not  merely  an  attempt 
to punish a country that may wish to implement other 
policies. Instead of spending so much money allegedly 
on defence and security, in the end it is for war. If we 
are  responsible 
to  humankind,  we  must  change 
everyone’s mindset. 
The  last  objective  of  this  alliance  would  be  to 

work together to strengthen the United Nations, but we 
also have to  begin to democratize the  United Nations. 
This is a very difficult task, of course. We have heard 
statements  made  by  heads  of  government  and  by 
presidents.  Some  anti-capitalist  presidents  are  accused 
of being authoritarian or totalitarian, of being dictators. 
Delegations  know,  and  the  world  knows,  how  a  coup 
d’état  in  a  country  such  as  Honduras  can  be  ensured 
here.  This  morning  President  Obama  talked  about 
working  with  countries  that  fight  against  poverty.  In 
Bolivia  we  have  greatly  reduced  poverty,  and  yet 
investments are cut. He has said that he will work with 
democratic  Governments.  In  Bolivia,  in  five  years  I 
have won two referendums and three elections, all with 
more than 50 or 60 per cent of the vote. Where is the 
dictatorship?  Where 
the  authoritarianism?  The 
authoritarianism  is  here  at  the  United  Nations.  Some 

A/65/PV.12 

Governments,  some  countries  have  permanent  seats 
with the right to veto. That is authoritarianism, and that 
is  why  we  must  begin  to  democratize  the  United 
Nations  if  we  want  to  move  ahead  with  a  democratic 
mindset  or  focus.  We  must  start  by  practising 
democracy  here.  But,  above  all,  I  want  to  tell  you, 
brothers  and  sisters  present  here,  that  we  must  work 
together  to  ensure  that,  sooner  or  later,  the  United 
Nations becomes an anti-capitalist Organization, if we 
are to save humankind. If we do not do that, we will be 
held  responsible.  And  I  assume  my  responsibility  by 
telling  you  this  in  a  direct  and  straightforward  way.  I 
am  not  at  all  scared  because  I  know  what  the 
consequences  of  capitalism  are  —  in  particular,  with 
regard to the destruction of Mother Earth. 
I was thinking that our United Nations — and as 

a President I feel part of the United Nations — should 
have  a  slogan,  a  war  cry  for  the  effort  to  save 
humankind.  I  propose 
its 
President  that  our  war  cry  should  be  “The  planet  or 
death; we shall win!” And I wish to say that, from what 
I have learned in my four and a half years as President 
of my country, if there is the political will to serve the 
people  of  the  world,  the  people  of  the  world  can  be 
saved. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

  Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma,  President  of 
the 
Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia,  was  escorted  from 
the General Assembly Hall. 
the  Assembly  and 
to 



Address by Mr. Ernest Bai Koroma, President of the 
Republic of Sierra Leone 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Sierra Leone. 

  Mr. Ernest Bai Koroma, President of the Republic 
of  Sierra  Leone,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Ernest  Bai  Koroma,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Sierra Leone. 
to 

for  me 
to  address 
President  Koroma:  Once  again,  it  is  a  great 

honour  and  pleasure 
this 
distinguished Assembly. Let me start by congratulating 
Mr.  Joseph  Deiss  on  his  assumption  of  the  presidency 
at the sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly  and 
assuring  him  of  my  delegation’s  full  support  and 
cooperation.  I  would  also  like  to  convey  my  sincere 
appreciation to his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Ali 
Abdussalam  Treki,  for  his  efficient  and  effective 
conduct of the previous session. My gratitude also goes 
to the Secretary-General for his comprehensive account 
of  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  and  his  analysis  of 
the challenges facing our global community. 

In  my  statement  I  would  like  to  talk  both  about 
the  successes  that  my  country  has  achieved  with  the 
help  of  the  international  community  and  about  the 
reforms  we  now  need  to  make  in  the  way  we  interact 
and  govern  ourselves  globally.  My  Government  is 
sincerely  grateful  for  the  international  community’s 
engagement  with  Sierra  Leone’s  efforts  to  put  the 
country  on  a  path  to  sustained  economic  growth  and 
development.  Building  on 
this  engagement,  our 
country  has  significantly  improved  our  international 
standing in many areas. 

The Global Peace Index now ranks Sierra Leone 
as  the  fifty-third  most  peaceful  country  in  the  world. 
The  Mo  Ibrahim  Index  records  that  we  are  one  of  the 
five  crisis-affected  countries 
that  have  made  a 
significant  leap  forward  in  democratic  governance.  A 
recent  International  Monetary  Fund  review  shows 
improvement  in  our  public  finances,  with  our  4  per 
cent  annual  economic  growth  rate  higher  than  the 
average  rate  of  2  per  cent  for  sub-Saharan Africa. We 
have  also  made  steady  progress  in  our  rankings  on 
doing  business,  corruption  perception  and  democracy. 
In  addition,  earlier  this  year  I  was  the  proud  recipient 
on behalf of the people of Sierra Leone of a peace prize 
awarded  by  ACCORD,  the  African  Centre  for  the 
Constructive  Resolution  of  Disputes.  And  only  last 
week my country received a Millennium Development 
Goal Award  for showing  outstanding leadership in the 
fight against HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases. 

My Government has also continued to emphasize 
the protection of the basic rights of the people of Sierra 
Leone.  We  have  put  in  place  comprehensive  justice 
sector reforms in response to both national and global 
demands,  to  ensure  that  the  rights  of  citizens  are 
preserved,  and that they have  access to justice for  all. 
And  the  Human  Rights  Commission  of  Sierra  Leone 
38 

10-54833 
Sierra  Leone 
is  among 
from  conflict 
is  determined 
(2000)  and  1820 
the 
that  have 


has assumed a lead role in advising my Government on 
building  a  culture  of  human  rights.  It  ensures  that  the 
Government ratifies international treaties and protocols 
and  fulfils  its  reporting  obligations. A  case  in  point  is 
our  recent  validation  of  the  common  core  document 
that  forms  the  basis  for  all  reporting  on  international 
treaties. 

few  countries 
emerging 
formulated  a 
comprehensive  action  plan 
for  Security  Council 
resolutions  1325 
(2008).  My 
Government 
to  ensure  effective 
implementation  of  the  action  plan,  particularly  in 
addressing gender-based violence as well as enhancing 
women’s participation in politics and the public sector. 

My  Government’s  commitment  to  free  media  is 
equally  strong.  No  journalist  has  been  imprisoned  in 
my country since I assumed office. We have transformed 
the Government-owned broadcasting services into what is 
only the second independent public service broadcaster in 
Africa, 
the  Sierra  Leone  Broadcasting  Corporation. 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon witnessed the launch of 
this  historic,  groundbreaking  initiative  in  June.  It  is  the 
beginning of a new era of access to independent, unbiased 
and impartial information in our country. 

My  Government  is  also  delivering  results  on  the 
key priorities in my Agenda for Change to improve the 
lives  of  all  Sierra  Leoneans.  We  have  launched  free 
health  care  for  pregnant  and  lactating  women,  as  well 
as children under five, for the first time in our history, 
improving access to around 300,000 women and more 
than a million children. We have also begun the serious 
commercialization  of  agriculture,  the  mainstay  of  our 
economy, particularly through smallholder farmers, for 
whom  we  are  facilitating  improved  mechanization, 
irrigation 
farming 
cooperatives.  We  have  successfully  made  significant 
progress on road construction and the rehabilitation of 
electricity supply in key provincial cities and towns, to 
generate economic activity across the country. We have 
made  great  strides  in  attracting  large-scale  private 
sector 
companies, 
following  the  Sierra  Leone  Trade  and  Investment 
Forum  in  London  last  year.  Furthermore,  to  maintain 
macroeconomic stability and make those achievements 
sustainable,  my  Government  also  remains  firmly 
committed to the fight against corruption. 
establishment 
investors 
from 
international 
and 
the 
of 
A/65/PV.12

Despite that progress, many challenges remain. I 
am proud of what Sierra Leone has achieved so far. But 
we  need  to  further  enhance  our  capacity  to  promote 
and  protect  human  rights,  establish  good  governance 
and managerial capacity across the whole public sector 
and  fight  corruption  and  trafficking  in  narcotic  drugs. 
For  all  that,  our  country  will  need  further  technical 
assistance and cooperation, private capital investments 
and technology transfer. 

Most  importantly,  we  are  not  oblivious  to  the 
imperative  of  consolidating  peace  through  enhanced 
political  dialogue,  tolerance  and  ensuring  a  free  and 
fair  electoral  process.  With  those  elements  and  our 
political  resolve,  we  will  make  further  progress 
towards  peace,  security  and  a  stable  and  open 
democracy. 

I  shall  now  turn  to  the  theme  of  the Assembly’s 
sixty-fifth  session:  reaffirming  the  central  role  of  the 
United Nations in global governance. It could not have 
been  better  timed,  at  a  moment  when  the  global 
community is grappling with myriad challenges facing 
the  international  system.  The  end  of  the  cold  war, 
together  with  an  explosion 
information  and 
communication  technologies,  gave  rise  to  a  new 
paradigm  of  flexible  or  loose  functional  coalitions 
involving  State  and  non-State  actors.  A  new 
configuration 
relationships, 
economic,  social,  political  and  ethnic  in  nature,  has 
emerged from those historic circumstances. 

There  are  fears  that  globalization  nurtures  the 
dominance  of  power  politics,  a  growing  disparity 
between  the  North  and  the  South,  intolerance  of 
different values, a tendency to resort to force to solve 
international conflicts, and neglect of the environment. 
At the same time, globalization has led to a multilevel 
system  of  governance  that  is  beginning  to  address 
global issues ranging from economic interdependence, 
migration,  financial  crises  and  drug  trafficking  to  the 
pandemics  of  tuberculosis,  avian  flu,  HIV/AIDS  and 
malaria. 

It  is  in  recognition  of  the  imperative  to  promote 
multilateralism and build synergies with both State and 
non-State  actors  that  I  commend  the  choice  of  theme. 
We  support  the  United  Nations  more  than  any  other 
organization  as  a  centre  of  global  governance.  It  has 
the  unique  characteristics  of  a  global  mandate  and 
universal membership. Those characteristics make it an 
indispensable and neutral  catalyst for the achievement 
interdependent 
of 
in 
10-54833 

39 
resulting 
from 

recession 
The  Assembly,  meeting  at 
the 
that  reforming 
international  peace  and  security  and  for 
A/65/PV.12 

of  international  cooperation  in  solving  international 
problems  of  an  economic, 
social,  cultural  or 
humanitarian character. The centrality of the role of the 
United  Nations 
in  global  governance  cannot  be 
overemphasized. 

The  recently  concluded  High-level  Meeting  on 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  revealed  that 
progress  has  been  uneven  and 
that  developing 
countries,  particularly  those  in  Africa,  continue  to  be 
most  vulnerable  to  the  effects  of  globalization.  The 
prevailing  global 
the 
economic  and  financial  crisis  that  struck  developed 
economies  has  further  compounded  that  challenge.  In 
this  context,  my  Government  believes  that  the  United 
Nations  remains  the  crucial  hub  for  norm-setting  and 
harmonizing the actions of nations for the maintenance 
of 
the 
attainment of our development goals. 

turn  of 
the 
millennium,  decided 
the  Security 
Council  and  making  it  more  accessible,  transparent, 
equitably  representative  and  accountable  was  long 
overdue.  That  brings  me  to  the  crucial  issue  that  has 
led us in Africa to consistently reiterate that there can 
be  no  meaningful  reform  of  the  Council  without 
allocating permanent seats to the continent. 

No  one  continent  should  have  an  exclusive 
monopoly  over  membership  of  the  Security  Council. 
There is no justification for a discriminatory allocation 
of  seats,  nor  can  we  debate  endlessly  and  ignore  the 
realities of our rapidly changing global circumstances. 

While the fifth round of talks has not truly led to 
a compromise-oriented solution, distilling all positions 
into  a  single  negotiating  document  has  been  a 
significant step in the right direction. We in Africa look 
forward  to  and  support  a  process  that  will  allow  the 
text  to  evolve  during  the  next  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  in  an  open,  inclusive  and  balanced  manner, 
towards  a  solution  that  can  garner  the  widest  possible 
political  acceptance  by  Member  States.  We  urge  all 
delegations  to  muster  the  political  will  required  for 
progress. 
I  wish  to  conclude  my  statement  by  saying  that 

the  moment  has  come  for  us  to  address  the  historical 
injustice inflicted on Africa by allocating the continent 
no  less  than  two  seats,  with  all  their  attributes  and 
in  both 
privileges,  and 
the 
the 
non-permanent  and  permanent  categories  of 
two  additional  seats 

Council.  I  do  not  need  to  emphasize  that  at  the 
inception of the United Nations, most of Africa was not 
represented  and  that  as  a  result Africa  remains  to  this 
day the only continent without a permanent seat in the 
Council.  To  ensure  greater  relevance  of  the  Security 
Council  within  a  revamped  United  Nations  system, 
Africa  demands  permanent  representation  on 
the 
Security Council, with all the requisite attributes. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Sierra  Leone  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

  Mr. Ernest Bai Koroma, President of the Republic 
of  Sierra  Leone,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 


to 
Address by Mr. Jalal Talabani, President of the 
Republic of Iraq 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Iraq. 

  Mr.  Jalal  Talabani,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Iraq,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Jalal  Talabani,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Iraq, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President Talabani (spoke in Arabic): Allow me 

at  the  outset  to  congratulate  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session,  and  the 
friendly  people  of  Switzerland,  on  his  election.  Our 
delegation will cooperate with him to its fullest extent 
in  the  performance  of  his  task.  We  are  confident  that 
his experience and wisdom will be important factors in 
the  success  of  the  Assembly’s  work  and  in  the 
achievement  of  the  purposes  of  the  United  Nations.  I 
also  thank  his  predecessor,  my  close  friend  Mr.  Ali 
Abdussalam Treki,  for presiding over the Assembly  at 
its last session. 

The political process in Iraq since the collapse of 
the  dictatorial  regime  in  2003  has  resulted  in  radical 
political change, as well as in the building of a federal, 
democratic, independent and united Iraq with respected 
constitutional institutions and a Government elected in 
accordance  with  the  Constitution. Achieving  that  goal 
40 

10-54833 
transnational 


was  neither  easy  nor  simple.  Iraq  faced  many 
challenges, 
foremost  of  which  was  confronting 
extremist, sectarian and factional forces and countering 
terrorist  groups  and  groups  of  the  former  dictatorial 
regime that are attempting to take Iraq back to the dark 
era of mass graves and fruitless wars. 

Those groups have used various means, including 
the  most  heinous  crimes,  and  have  allied  themselves 
with  organized  crime  and 
terrorist 
networks  in  order  to  destabilize  the  security  situation 
in Iraq. The main task of the Government of Iraq was 
to  provide  security  throughout  the  country  and  to 
strengthen national unity and the rule of law. 

There have been significant developments in Iraq 
since  I  stood  before  the Assembly  last  year. This  year 
and  last  have  witnessed  a  significant  decrease  in 
violence and a marked improvement in security in Iraq. 
Although  there  were  some  terrorist  acts  targeting 
innocent civilians in different places in the country, the 
overall security situation has improved, and that paved 
the  way  for  the  withdrawal  of  United  States  combat 
forces operating in Iraq. The complete pullout of those 
forces on 31 August 2010 was based on the Agreement 
Between 
the 
Republic  of  Iraq  On  the  Withdrawal  of  United  States 
Forces  from  Iraq  and  the  Organization  of  Their 
Activities  during  Their  Temporary  Presence  in  Iraq, 
signed by both parties on 17 November 2008. 

This  year  has  also  seen  successful  legislative 
elections,  which  were  held  on  7  March  with 
considerable  Arab,  regional  and  international  interest. 
The United Nations Assistance Mission for Iraq and the 
the  Islamic 
observers  from 
Conference, 
the 
international  community  and  civil  society  organizations 
all  expressed  their  belief  that  the  elections  were 
transparent, free and fair. 

The  principal  political  parties  have  been  in 
continuous  communication  with  the  aim  of  holding  a 
fruitful  session  of  the  newly  elected  Iraqi  Council  of 
Representatives 
the  new 
parliament  and  the  President  of  the  Republic  of  Iraq, 
after  which,  according  to  the  provisions  of  the  Iraqi 
Constitution,  the  elected  President  will  ask  a  new 
Prime  Minister  to  form  a  Government.  It  is  our  hope 
that  that  new  Government  will  be  formed  as  soon  as 
possible,  as  any  delay  will  negatively  affect  the 
security situation, reconstruction and prosperity. 
the  United  States  of  America  and 
the  League  of  Arab  States, 
to  elect  a  Speaker  for 
the  Organization  of 
A/65/PV.12
its 
through 
strengthening 

The  improved  security  situation  in  Iraq  has 
encouraged  many  Arab  and  other  countries  to  reopen 
their  diplomatic  missions  and  has  helped  to  develop 
Iraqi  relations  regionally  and 
internationally.  The 
appointment  of  new  Iraqi  ambassadors  to  various 
countries around the world has also helped to promote 
and  broaden  the  horizons  of  those  relations.  Iraq’s 
assuming  the  presidency  of  the  current  session  of  the 
Arab  League  and  of  the  Arab  Summit  Conference  in 
March  of  next  year  will  promote  Iraq’s  regional  role 
and  will  be  considered  an  important  step  in  its  efforts 
to  regain  its  global  standing  as  an  effective  and 
responsible  member  of  the  international  community. 
The  Government  of  Iraq  will  continue  to  move  in  that 
direction 
friendships, 
cooperation  and  good-neighbourly  efforts,  thus  creating 
greater opportunity for stability and security in the region. 

In  the  development  arena,  on  4  April  2010  the 
Government  of  Iraq  initiated  a  national  development 
plan  for  the  five-year  period  from  2010  to  2014.  It 
contains  around  2,700  strategic  projects  in  various 
sectors  at  a  total  cost  of  $186  billion.  That  plan  will 
help  to  develop  the  Iraqi  economy  and  enhance  the 
quality of services provided to Iraqis. It will also create 
4 million jobs, thus helping the unemployment problem 
in Iraq. 

The  national  development  plan  will  also  help 
Iraqi  refugees  return  to  their  homes.  The  Government 
of  Iraq  believes  that  the  real  solution  for  the  problem 
of  Iraqi  refugees  and  displaced  persons  lies  in  their 
return  to  their  homeland  and  their  residences.  Iraq 
needs the experience of all its citizens to help build the 
country’s  future.  We  therefore  call  upon  countries 
hosting  Iraqi  refugees,  international  organizations  and 
civil society organizations to promote awareness of the 
culture of voluntary return. 

Iraqi  women  enjoy  important  status  in  the  new 
federal and united Iraq and enjoy political rights equal 
to those of men. Women have been granted 25 per cent 
of  the  seats  in  the  Iraqi  Council  of  Representatives. 
Additionally,  for  the  first  time  in  many  decades,  the 
women  of 
important 
ministerial positions and have represented their country 
as  ambassadors,  this  after  having  been  deprived  of 
those  rights  for  more  than  30  years.  The  Constitution 
also  guarantees  that  women  grant  their  nationality  to 
their children. 
Iraq  have  assumed  many 
10-54833 

41 

in 
is  a 
legitimate 
resolutions 
aimed 
to  secure 
their 
the  resolutions  of 
the  Arab  League  and 
inalienable 
A/65/PV.12 


The  Constitution  formulated  the  basic  principles 
of  Iraq’s  foreign  policy,  which  focuses  on  observing 
good-neighbourliness  and  non-interference 
the 
internal  affairs  of  other  States,  the  resolution  of 
disputes  by  peaceful  means  and  the  establishment  of 
international  relations  based  on  shared  interests  and 
respect  for  Iraq’s  international  obligations.  On  that 
basis,  we  seek  to  establish  the  best  relations  with 
sisterly Arab  and Islamic  countries and  are committed 
to 
the 
Organization of the Islamic Conference. 
In  this  spirit  we  support  the  Palestinian  people’s 

just  struggle 
rights, 
including  the  establishment  of  a  Palestinian  State  on 
the  land  of  Palestine,  as  we  work  to  implement  the 
internationally 
at 
returning the occupied Arab territories. We consider the 
Arab  Peace  Initiative  to  be  a  practical  step  towards 
resolving 
the  Arab-Israeli  conflict  and  achieving 
security, peace and stability in the Middle East. 

We  also  call  for  making  the  Middle  East  a  zone 
free  of  nuclear  weapons  and  weapons  of  mass 
destruction,  which  would  enhance  the  prospects  for 
peace and security in the region. We call on all States 
that have not yet done so to accede to the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  and 
comply with its provisions. 

With  regard  to  the  Iranian  nuclear  issue,  Iraq 
believes in the legitimate right of States to use nuclear 
energy 
right 
guaranteed by international conventions, including the 
NPT. We  stress  the  importance  of  reaching  a  peaceful 
solution  to  that  issue,  and  that  dialogue  and  quiet 
diplomacy  are the most  effective ways  to achieve that 
goal.  Any  escalation  would  harm  the  interests  of  all 
parties and would endanger regional security. 

The most important issue Iraq continues to face is 
the removal of the burden created by Security Council 
resolutions adopted against it under Chapter VII of the 
United  Nations  Charter.  By 
those 
resolutions,  in  accordance  with  Council  resolution 
1859  (2008)  and  in  response  to  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  in  document  S/2009/385,  we  have 
been working diligently with our friends and members 
of  the  Council  to  settle  all  the  outstanding  issues 
concerning the situation in Iraq. 
At the forefront of those issues are the remaining 

restrictions  on  Iraq  in  the  field  of  disarmament,  the 
for  peaceful  purposes.  That 
reviewing 
42 

conclusion  of  the  remaining  contracts  under  the  Oil-
for-Food  programme  and  finding  the  right  mechanism 
for guaranteeing Iraqi funds following the replacement 
of the Development Fund for Iraq and the International 
Advisory  and  Monitoring  Board  for  Iraq.  Iraq  would 
like to see those dossiers closed by the end of this year. 

The  newly  elected  Iraqi  Government  will  also 
deal  with  the  situation  between  Iraq  and  sisterly 
Kuwait and related issues, such as the maintenance of 
border  pillars,  compensation  and  missing  Kuwaiti 
persons  and  properties.  We  will  work  seriously  with 
our  Kuwaiti  brothers,  other  stakeholders  and  United 
Nations  organs  to  reach  a  settlement  that  satisfies  all 
parties  without  prejudice  to  our  obligations  under 
Security  Council  resolutions,  concerning  which  we 
emphasize our respect and commitment. 

The  situation  in  Iraq  has  changed  as  a  result  of 
the important positive developments since the collapse 
of the former regime and the end of the dictatorship. It 
is drastically different from the situation at the time the 
Security  Council  adopted  resolution  661  (1990).  For 
that  reason,  and  following  the  adoption  of  resolution 
1859  (2008)  and  the  publication  of  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  pursuant  to  paragraph  5  of  that 
resolution  (S/2009/385),  we  believe  that  the  time  is 
ripe  for  the  Council  to  act  in  accordance  with  the 
Secretary-General’s  report  and  the  mandate  set  out  in 
resolution  1859  (2008).  Also,  in  keeping  with  its 
responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security, it is time for the Council to review 
resolutions  pertaining  specifically  to  Iraq,  beginning 
with resolution 661 (1990), with a view to helping Iraq 
achieve  the  international  standing  it  enjoyed  before 
those resolutions were adopted. 

The  current  political  process  in  Iraq  aims  at 
building a federal, democratic, independent and united 
Iraq,  where  citizens  work  within  a  constitutional 
framework  that  guarantees  the  rule  of  law,  where 
human  rights  are  protected  and  where  all  segments  of 
the Iraqi people are treated with full respect. We have 
great faith in our ability and potential, as a country rich 
in  natural  and  human  resources,  to  achieve  those 
objectives. 

However, at this important stage in the life of the 
Iraqi  people,  we  continue  to  need  the  political  and 
economic  support  of  and  cooperation 
the 
international  community  in  order  to  stand  on  a  firm 
foundation  —  one  that  will  enable  us  to  advance 
from 
10-54833 




towards a future in which not only can we promote our 
country’s  and  our  people’s  stability,  progress  and 
prosperity, but also contribute fully as a member of the 
international  community  to  the  achievement  of  peace, 
security and sustainable development for all nations. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Iraq  for  the  statement  he 
has just made. 

  Mr.  Jalal  Talabani,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Iraq,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 

Address by Lieutenant-General Salou Djibo, 
President of the Supreme Council for Restoration of 
Democracy, Chief of State, President of the Council 
of Ministers of the Republic of the Niger 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the  Supreme  Council  for  Restoration  of  Democracy, 
Chief  of  State  and  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers of the Republic of the Niger. 

  Lieutenant-General  Salou Djibo,  President of the 
Supreme  Council  for  Restoration  of  Democracy, 
Chief  of  State,  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers  of  the  Republic  of  the  Niger,  was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome  to  the  United  Nations  Lieutenant-General 
Salou  Djibo,  President  of  the  Supreme  Council  for 
Restoration of Democracy, Chief of State and President 
of  the  Council  of  Ministers  of  the  Republic  of  the 
Niger, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President Djibo (spoke in French): At the outset, 

on behalf of the Republic of the Niger, I would like to 
extend to Mr. Joseph Deiss my sincere congratulations 
on  his  outstanding  election  as  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at 
its  sixty-fifth  session.  His 
country, the Swiss Confederation, is known for its long 
tradition  in  the  area  of  international  relations,  and  his 
own  career  reveals  proven  skill  and  a  wealth  of 
personal  experience.  Because  of  that,  we  believe  that 
under  his  leadership  the  work  of  this  session  will  be 
crowned  with  success.  I  can  assure  him  of  the  full 
support and complete cooperation of my delegation in 
carrying out his noble and lofty mission. 
A/65/PV.12

To  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki, 
representative  of  the  great  Socialist  People’s  Libyan 
Arab  Jamahiriya,  I  would  like  to  pay  particular  and 
fully merited tribute to him for the exemplary way and 
the talent with which he led the work at the Assembly’s 
last session. 

Finally,  with  consideration  and  admiration,  I 
commend  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  a 
promoter  of  peace,  for  his  tireless  investment  in  the 
search  for  the  most  appropriate  solutions  to  the  many 
challenges that assail the world today and cry out daily 
to  the  individual  and  collective  consciences  of  its 
leaders.  The  particular  attention  he  gives  to  the 
situation of the most vulnerable countries, his constant 
advocacy  for  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  and  his  recent  journey  to  Africa  deserve  to  be 
commended. 

The  world  will  recall  that  on  18  February  2010, 
in  the  face  of  an  anti-constitutional  drift  imposed  on 
democratic  and  republican  institutions  of  my  country 
by the Government in place, and the grave and certain 
risk of the disintegration of national cohesiveness, the 
defence and security forces of the Niger were obligated 
to intervene on the political scene. 

This was not the intervention of an army hungry 
for  power,  but  that  of  officers  who  were  concerned 
with  safeguarding  the  unity  and  integrity  of  their 
country,  which  had  been  endangered  by  the  Head  of 
State at the time, who, through sheer self-interest, had 
decided  to  ignore,  by  undertaking  a  civilian  coup 
d’état, all of  the laws of the Republic, beginning with 
the  Constitution 
itself,  which  was  replaced  with 
another  that  would  have  generously  extended  the 
presidential mandate for three years, which was to have 
ended on 22 December 2009. It was therefore for good 
reason  that  our  arrival  was  welcomed  by  national  and 
international opinion. 

Having  headed  the  country  since  18  February 
2010,  the  Supreme  Council  for  the  Restoration  of 
Democracy,  over  which  we  have  the  great  honour  to 
preside,  immediately  set  itself  the  primary  goal  of 
taking all decisions necessary to bringing peace to the 
socio-political  life  of  the  country.  It  was  precisely  to 
that  end  that  it  drew  up  its  programme  for  governing 
on  the  basis  of  three  pillars:  the  restoration  of 
democracy;  cleaning  up  the  country’s  political  and 
economic  situation  by  fighting  against 
impunity, 
10-54833 

43 

after 
accepted 
to  assist 
the  Niger  and 
international  community 
the  Supreme  Council  for 
A/65/PV.12 

corruption  and  bribery;  and  the  reconciliation  of  the 
people of the Niger. 

With  a  view  to  restoring  a  normal  constitutional 
regime, the National Independent Electoral Commission, 
which  was  created  to  that  end,  drew  up  and  proposed  a 
schedule  for  general  elections  and  a  draft  budget  for 
organizing  seven  planned  elections  to  the  Government 
and 
the  Restoration  of 
Democracy,  which 
slight 
them 
modifications. According  to  that  timetable,  the  electoral 
process will take place from 31 October 2010 to 6 April 
2011 and will include a constitutional referendum as well 
as local, legislative and presidential elections. 

I am pleased to recall here that, by an ordinance 
of  11  March  2010,  we  decided  to  make  ineligible 
members of the defence and security forces, as well as 
members  of  the  transitional  Government.  I  should 
therefore  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  make  an 
urgent  appeal 
to 
continue 
its  National 
Independent Electoral Commission in the organization 
of  the  programme  of  elections  that  I  have  just 
elaborated.  This  assistance  is  crucial  if  we  are  to 
achieve within the established time frame the core goal 
of 
transitional 
Government  of  restoring  constitutional  order  in  the 
Niger, following the outcome of the electoral process. 
Moreover, with a view to guaranteeing free, fair, 

transparent  and  credible  elections, 
the  Supreme 
Council  for  the  Restoration  of  Democracy  and  the 
Government of the Niger, solemnly request through me 
the  participation  of 
the  United  Nations  and  all 
interested  international  institutions  in  observing  the 
various elections. 
I was determined to make this trip to New York, 

despite 
the  many  urgent  needs  and  constraints 
associated  with  the  transitional  agenda  under  way  in 
the Niger, to  solemnly reaffirm before this august and 
honourable  Assembly  that  the  commitments  we  made 
following the events of 18 February 2010 are now at a 
very  advanced  stage  of  implementation  and  that,  God 
willing, they will be upheld within the established time 
frame and with international support. In this respect, I 
note  and  welcome  the  fact  that,  in  the  report  he 
represented  to  the  Security  Council  on  13  July  2010 
(S/2010/324), 
the 
Secretary-General  for  West  Africa  stressed  that  the 
the  Special  Representative  of 
the  Supreme  Council  and 
to 
the 
the 
at 
the 
fully 
level, 
Finally, 
international 
the  Niger  have 
transitional  authorities 
in 
respected their commitments. 

In accordance with the second commitment made 
by 
the  Supreme  Council  for 
the  Restoration  of 
Democracy,  on  11  May  2010  we  established  a 
commission  to  combat  economic,  financial  and  fiscal 
crime  and  to  promote  good  governance,  which  is 
currently implementing a programme to restore the rule 
of  law  in  the  Niger.  In  parallel,  a  high  authority  for 
reconciliation and consolidation of democracy has been 
created.  This  new  institution  is  working  with  all  the 
necessary  care  to  achieve  the  third  goal,  which  is  to 
consolidate our national unity. 

since 
18 February  we  have  clearly  reaffirmed  the  Niger’s 
commitment to the universal values of peace, security, 
good-neighbourliness,  human  rights,  the  rule  of  law, 
democracy,  international  solidarity,  strict  compliance 
with the Charter of the United Nations, the Charter of 
the  African  Union,  the  statutes  of  the  Economic 
Community  of  West  African  States  and  all  other 
relevant international legal instruments. 
Poor economic and  financial governance and the 

political and institutional crisis were, unfortunately, not 
the  only  threats  facing  the  Niger.  Sadly,  there  was 
another  scourge  that  was  even  more  dangerous  and 
called for urgent countermeasures, but whose existence 
was  long  concealed  by  the  authorities  of  the  time.  I 
refer to the very serious situation of food insecurity in 
which my country finds itself. 
On  10  March,  an  urgent  appeal  was  made  to  the 

entire  national  and  international  community  for  major 
support  to  be  given  to  our  country  in  its  efforts  to 
address  this  disaster.  With  the  prompt  and  concrete 
support  of  the  Niger’s  development  partners  and 
through the national mechanism for the prevention and 
management of food crises, action to mitigate the crisis 
has  been  diligently  undertaken.  Of  particular  note 
among  these  efforts  are  the  cash-for-work  operations, 
the sale of reasonably priced grain, the free distribution 
of  food,  seed  and  livestock  feed  assistance,  and  care 
for malnourished children. 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  convey  to  all  our 

generous  donors  the  profound  gratitude  of  the  people 
of the Niger, the Supreme Council and the transitional 
Government  for  that  commendable  and  unforgettable 
show  of  solidarity. We  hope  to  see  it  continue  so  that 
we  can  address  the  emerging  situation  resulting  from 
44 

10-54833 
It 
is  obvious 


floods  wreaking  havoc  in  several  regions  of  our 
country. We are also pleased to see that food security is 
high  on  the  list  of  issues  on  which  the  General 
Assembly  will  focus  during  its  current  session  and 
among  the  priorities  set  for  the  Organization  in  2010 
by the Secretary-General. 

At  this  stage,  I  welcome  the  initiative  of  Under-
Secretary-General  John  Holmes  to  come  to  the  Niger 
and visit isolated rural areas in order to see for himself 
the desperate situation into which the people and their 
livestock  have  been  plunged.  During  his  visit,  he  was 
able to assess the scale of the crisis  and its impact on 
people  —  in  particular  on  children  —  and  livestock. 
The  appeal  he  made  to  the  international  community, 
advocating the mobilization of $130 million to provide 
urgent  assistance  to  the  populations  affected,  remains 
highly urgent. We know, however, that we can count on 
the  understanding  and  ongoing  concern  of  our 
development  partners,  which  have  already  been 
reflected in the gradual resumption of their cooperation 
with the Niger. 

that  my  country  has  serious 
socio-economic  problems,  but  the  people  of  the  Niger 
are  determined  to  overcome  them  with  the  support  of 
the  international  community.  My  country  is  young.  It 
has  just  celebrated  its  fiftieth  year  of  independence 
without  fanfare  because  of  the  food  crisis.  Its  people 
are  young,  but  they  are  also  dynamic  and  resolved  to 
begin their march on the path to development. 

This  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General Assembly 
is  taking  place  in  an  international  context  of  strong 
contrasts. Indeed, while tangible progress continues to 
be made daily in many areas of concern, we face many 
numerous and varied challenges in many other areas. 
In  Africa,  positive  developments  have  been 

recorded. I welcome the holding of free, transparent and 
fair  elections,  in  particular  in  the  Sudan  and  Burundi.  I 
welcome the decision of the authorities of Côte d’Ivoire 
to organize presidential elections very soon. It is my hope 
that  the  electoral  process  under  way  will  be  a  success. 
Indeed, that is the only way that Côte d’Ivoire will restore 
the  stability  and  calm  that  will  allow  it  to  fully  play  its 
role as a driving force in West Africa. 

Finally,  I  note  that  the  peace  and  security 
architecture  of  our  continental  organization  is  being 
strengthened  with  the  support  of  our  partners,  such  as 
the  European  Union  and  the  United  Nations,  in 
particular  with  imminent  operationalization  of  the 
A/65/PV.12
the 
African peace force and the early warning mechanism. 
It is my ardent hope that significant progress shall soon 
be  made  on  the  political  front  in  other  friendly 
countries,  such  as  the  Central  African  Republic,  the 
Comoros, Somalia and Madagascar, in the Great Lakes 
region and Darfur. 

In the Middle East, the launch of direct  bilateral 
negotiations  should,  we  hope,  lead  to  comprehensive 
peace  based  on 
two-State  solution,  with  an 
independent and viable Palestine living side by side in 
peace  and  security  with  Israel  and  other  neighbouring 
countries. From this rostrum, I wish full success to the 
direct negotiation process among officials of those two 
countries, sponsored by President Barack Obama of the 
United States of America. 

Other  threats  to  international  peace  and  security 
continue to confront us on a daily basis. I refer above 
all  to  terrorism,  drug  trafficking  and  the  proliferation 
of small arms and light weapons. West Africa — and in 
particular  the  Sahelo-Saharan  region,  of  which  the 
Niger  is  an  integral  part  —  is  currently  suffering  the 
bitter nexus of terrorism and trafficking of all types. In 
spite  of  the  efforts  made,  it  must  be  recognized  that 
national  and  regional  authorities  continue  to  have 
difficulty  neutralizing 
these  armed  groups.  The 
abduction  last  week  of  foreign  nationals  in  northern 
Niger reminds us of the gravity of the situation and of 
the  urgent  need  for  the  measures  necessary  to  deal 
effectively  with  this  threat  to  peace,  security  and 
development in our country. 

Indeed, with each passing day, terrorism grows in 
scale  in  our  subregion  and  threatens  to  tarnish  the 
image  of  the  Sahel  countries,  compromise  tourist 
revenues  and  exacerbate  our  people’s  poverty  and 
insecurity. We all know that poverty and desolation are 
fertile  grounds  for 
therefore 
recognize  the  urgent  need  to  promptly  strengthen 
international  cooperation  and  economic  and  social 
development  programmes  in  these  areas  in  order  to 
eradicate these scourges. The response to all these evils 
must  be  coordinated.  That  is  why  the  countries 
concerned created a mechanism to coordinate counter-
terrorism  activities  following  a  ministerial  meeting 
held  in  Algiers  on  16  March.  With  respect  to  drug 
trafficking, the Economic Community of West African 
States  has  adopted  a  plan  of  action  to  combat  it,  and 
urgently  appeals  to  the  international  community  to 
assist in its implementation. 
terrorists.  We  must 
10-54833 

45 
in 
a 
effective 
rights  are 
cannot  be 
A/65/PV.12 


It  has  been  widely  understood  since  the  2005 
World  Summit  that  peace,  security,  development  and 
human 
interdependent  and  mutually 
reinforcing. In other words, peace, security and human 
rights 
context  of 
underdevelopment  and  poverty.  It  is  clear  that  the 
Secretary-General fully shares this view because he has 
made  sustainable  development  one  of  his  highest 
priorities throughout 2010 through the achievement of 
this 
internationally  agreed  development  goals.  In 
respect, 
the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on 
the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), held from 20 
to  22  September,  was  a  real  opportunity  for  the 
international  community  to  address  many  subjects  of 
major concern more thoroughly. 
As  the  participants  in  the  High-level  Meeting 

firmly  highlighted  and  I  would  note,  there  is  a  clear 
link  between  the  availability  of  resources  and  the 
achievement of the MDGs. From my point of view, the 
achievement  of  the  MDGs  remains  possible  for  the 
Niger, as I emphasized at the Meeting, but only to the 
extent  that  substantial  financial  resources  are  made 
available,  in  particular  through  an  expanded  and 
enhanced 
international 
community. That  is  why  I  appeal  for  the  mobilization 
of  the  resources  necessary  through  compliance  with 
commitments  made  in  the  Millennium  Declaration 
(resolution 
the  Monterrey  Consensus 
(A/CONF.198/11),  and  in  the  Outcome  Document  of 
the  Doha  International  Conference  on  Financing  for 
Development (A/CONF.212/L.1/Rev.1*). 
The  terrible  earthquake  that  struck  Haiti  with 

such  force  on  12  January;  the  deadly  floods  that 
continue  to  affect  Pakistan,  India  and  the  People’s 
Republic of  China; the terrible droughts and floods in 
the Sahel; and the heatwave in Russia have all made us 
aware  of  our  collective  vulnerability 
to  natural 
disasters  and 
their  underlying  causes,  such  as 
environmental degradation and climate change. 
In this respect, as highlighted by the participants 

at 
the 
International Year of Biodiversity, the protection of the 
environment  should  be  everyone’s  priority.  It 
is 
necessary  to  follow  up  on  the  voluntary  commitments 
made in the Copenhagen Declaration, in particular with 
respect 
financing  adaptation  and  mitigation 
measures. 
the  20  September  high-level  meeting  on 
partnership  with 
55/2), 
the 
to 

that,  on  30  June, 

With  respect  to  United  Nations  reform,  it  is 
encouraging  to  note  the  significant  progress  made  in 
the empowerment of women, governance and financing 
activities  to  operationalize  development.  Let  us  not 
forget 
the  General  Assembly 
established  the  composite  Entity  for  Gender  Equality 
and  the  Empowerment  of  Women,  which,  as  of 
1 January  2011,  will  be  responsible  for  addressing 
gender issues in place of the four institutions that have 
hitherto  worked  to  promote  gender  equality  and  the 
empowerment  of  women.  This  is  an  important  act 
which  we  dare  to  hope  will  lead  Member  States  to 
advance  in  other  sectors  of  United  Nations  reform,  in 
particular reform of the Security Council. 

I  am  convinced  that  this  will  strengthen  the 
Organization’s legitimacy and capacity for action in the 
service of international peace and security. Indeed, if it 
is  to  be  up  to  this  immense  and  delicate  task,  the 
United  Nations  must  be 
just,  representative  and 
democratic. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Supreme  Council  for  the  Restoration 
of Democracy, Chief of State, President of the Council 
of  Ministers  of  the  Republic  of  the  Niger  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

  Lieutenant-General  Salou Djibo,  President of the 
Supreme  Council 
the  Restoration  of 
Democracy,  Chief  of  State,  President  of  the 
Council of Ministers of the Republic of the Niger, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall. 
for 


Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Steven  Vanackere,  Deputy  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
Institutional Reform of Belgium. 
Mr.  Vanackere  (Belgium)  (spoke  in  French): 

History has shown us that words can change the face of 
the  world.  It  has  proven  that  the  spoken  word  can 
influence  the  future,  but  only  when  they  go  beyond 
rhetoric. What is our global governance worth if it does 
not  go  beyond 
the  expression  of  ambitions  and 
intentions?  Words  remain  ineffectual  if  they  are  not 
followed  up  with  action. We  must  therefore  act.  I  say 
“we”, the nations united, because no country, no matter 


46 

10-54833 
is  about 
That 
is  why 
is 
limited 
to  a  single  country, 


how  large,  can  respond  alone  to  the  great  challenges 
facing  humanity.  I  say  “we”  because  no  large-scale 
problem 
leaving 
untouched  the  lives  of  those  who  live  elsewhere.  The 
obligation to act is a shared, global responsibility. 
(spoke in English) 
today  my  message 

responsibility and increased accountability. 

At  the  heart  of  any  form  of  governance  lies 
responsibility,  be 
local,  national  or 
international.  But 
Indeed, 
governance  is  not  only  about  behaving  responsibly;  it 
is  also  about  being  accountable. This  applies  not  only 
at the level of the single State, but also at the level of 
our United Nations. 

Human  rights,  security  and  development  are  at 
the core of the mandate of the United Nations. Former 
Secretary-General Kofi Annan pointed out the fact that 
the three are inextricably linked when he said: 

“There  will  be  no  development  without  security 
and  no  security  without  development.  And  both 
development and security also depend on respect 
for  human 
law.” 
rights  and 
(A/59/2005, annex, para. 2) 
it  global  or 
this 
is  not  enough. 
the 
rule  of 
It  has  indeed  become  common  knowledge  that  human 
rights  are  unlikely  to  be  protected  in  an  insecure  and 
underdeveloped  environment  and 
that  economic 
development  cannot  be  durably  sustained  in  a  society 
where there is no rule of law. 

Accountability  in  international  affairs  is  about 
respecting  international  law  —  the  rules  that  govern 
relations  among  States.  Without  a  solid  legal  basis, 
international  cooperation  remains  optional  and  falls 
short  of  the  necessary  transparency  and  long-term 
sustainability.  Important  steps  have  been  taken  to 
uphold  the  rule  of  law  at  the  international  level  over 
the past decades. 

Belgium  pleads  for  the  universal  acceptance  of 
the  competence  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
and  the  International  Criminal  Court.  If  all  countries 
were willing to follow up on this appeal, we would be 
a  step  closer  to  having  an  effective  and  accountable 
international system. 

Meeting our responsibilities in the field of human 
rights means ensuring efficient means and mechanisms 
to  ensure  their  protection.  We  need  to  instil  more 
A/65/PV.12
and 
regional 
International 
Human rights are universal. My country strongly 
coherence to our action. Unfortunately, today we focus 
our  attention  all  too  often  on  how  to  react  to  human 
rights  violations  while  we  should  focus  more  on 
prevention and on the root causes of those violations. 

opposes any form of relativism in this respect. 
rights 

human 
instruments  need  to  be  strengthened.  The  evaluation 
within the Human Rights Council in 2011 should give 
important momentum to that strengthening. 

There  is  also  a  need  for  increased  accountability 
in  the  field  of  security,  another  pillar  of  the  United 
Nations.  Over  the  past  year,  important  progress  has 
been  made.  The  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to 
the Non-Proliferation Treaty came to a substantial and 
balanced  result.  Respect  for  Non-Proliferation  Treaty 
provisions  and  cooperation  with 
the  International 
Atomic  Energy Agency  are  accountability  in  practice. 
Unfortunately,  the  non-acceptance  or  non-respect  of 
these provisions by countries like North Korea and Iran 
threatens the international non-proliferation regime. 

In  particular,  Belgium  welcomes  the  entry  into 
force  earlier  this  year  of  the  Convention  on  Cluster 
Munitions.  The  prohibition  of  the  production  and  use 
of  cluster  munitions  has  become  the  international 
standard.  I  am  pleased  and  proud  to  announce  that 
Belgium  has  recently  destroyed  its  entire  stock  of 
cluster munitions. 

The Millennium Development Goals  and climate 
negotiations  are  at  the  top  of  our  twenty-first  century 
agenda,  and  rightly  so. We  are  all  responsible  for  our 
planet.  In  fact,  we  are  all  accountable  to  current  and 
future  generations,  especially  in  the  field  of  poverty 
reduction  and  environmental  protection.  Let  us  not 
forget the ancient Native American saying: “We do not 
inherit the Earth from our ancestors; we borrow it from 
our children”. 

Creating  a  world  that  is  equitable,  a  world  that 
will  last,  is  our  common  responsibility.  Belgium  is 
doing so by spending 0.7 per cent of its gross domestic 
product on development cooperation. 
If  we  indeed  accept  the  need  to  be  accountable 

for the results we do or do not obtain, we should have 
the  courage  to  evaluate  and  adapt  the  institutions  and 
instruments  at  our  disposal.  In  that  respect,  Belgium 
fully  supports  the  efforts  of  the  European  Union  to 
10-54833 

47 
If 
it 

is 
to 
the 
that 
forget 
lead  us 
to  contribute  effectively 
A/65/PV.12 

participate in a timely and effective manner in the work 
of the General Assembly. 

to  global 
governance and to take up its global responsibility, the 
United Nations needs to continue its efforts to become 
more representative and more efficient. The creation of 
UN  Women  was  a  welcome  development,  and  it  has 
my country’s full support. Of course, gender will need 
to  remain  a  mainstream  theme  influencing  the  actions 
of each and every United Nations institution. 
Important  discussions  on  the  reform  of  the 

Security  Council  have  been  ongoing  for  quite  some 
time.  Belgium  hopes  that  the  negotiations  will  soon 
lead to concrete results. 
I  have  talked  about  institutions,  and  concerns 

about  institutions  are,  of  course,  legitimate.  But  they 
should  never 
first 
accountability  of  humankind 
is  not  created  by 
abstractions or institutions, but by the face of a person 
in  dire  need;  of  the  man,  woman  or  child  who  is  the 
victim of violence; of those who suffer the violence of 
nature, or from violence perpetrated by other men. 

When  it  comes  to  humanitarian  protection  and 
aid,  responsibility  and  accountability  have  never  been 
is  why  United  Nations 
more  necessary.  That 
peacekeeping  missions  with 
strong  mandates, 
especially in the field of the protection of civilians, are 
important  and 
the  necessary 
instruments, not least in the context of the fight against 
sexual  violence.  In  this  context,  Belgium  strongly 
supports  Security  Council  resolution  1325  (2000)  and 
its  goals  of  ensuring  the  participation,  protection  and 
promotion of women in peace and security. 

The  concept  of  sovereignty  cannot  be  used  as  a 
justification  for  human  rights  violations  against  the 
citizens  of  any  country.  On  the  contrary,  sovereignty 
implies  the  responsibility  to  protect,  and  we  support 
the  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  to  further  put  this 
principle into practice. 

My  key  message  of  increased  responsibility  and 
accountability  also  applies  to  certain  situations  in  the 
world 
the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Afghanistan  and 
Pakistan. 
to  address  briefly: 
should  be  given 
that  I  would 
like 
to  choose 
the  Congo 
(spoke in French) 

The  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  independence  of 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  has  been  an 
opportunity  to  measure  the  unquestionable  progress 
made over recent years. What is important as we move 
forward is the consolidation of peace and democracy in 
the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo.  Belgium  is 
pleased  that  the  mandate  of  the  United  Nations 
Organization  Stabilization  Mission  in  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo has incorporated the element of 
peacebuilding alongside that of peacekeeping. 
The  elections  in  2006  allowed  the  Democratic 

Republic  of 
the  path  of 
democratization.  The  Congolese  authorities  have 
expressed their determination to persevere on this path 
in confirming their intention to hold elections in 2011. 
That deserves our full support. 

Despite  all  this  progress,  it  is  clear  that  many 
challenges  remain.  In  spite  of  the  rapprochement 
among  its  neighbours,  the  situation  in  the  East  of  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo remains worrisome. 
We  were  reminded  of  this  by  the  shocking  reports  of 
widespread rape in Luvungi. 

The fight against impunity, which is crucial to my 
country, hinges first and foremost on the strengthening 
of 
the  primary 
responsibilities  of  the  authorities,  but  here,  too,  the 
support  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  international 
community 
the 
international  community  to  continue  to  assume  its 
responsibility. 
(spoke in English) 

Like in every country, the Afghan Government is 
held  accountable  by  the Afghan  people.  We  hope  that 
last  weekend’s  elections  contributed  to  this.  However, 
the  Afghan  authorities  do  not  stand  alone.  The 
international  community,  with  a  central  role  for  the 
United  Nations,  assists  the  Afghan  Government  in 
enhancing the level of accountability to its population. 
Gradually, the Afghan authorities need to take on more 
responsibility,  especially  in  the  field  of  security.  This 
transfer  is  welcome,  but  rather  than  being  calendar-
driven, it should be results-driven. 

The  Belgian  Government  has  decided  to  extend 
its  current  military  and  civilian  presence  until  the  end 
of  2011.  We  believe  that  2011  will  be  of  crucial 
security 
importance 
crucial.  Belgium 
the  rule  of 
transferring 
is  one  of 
calls  on 
law.  It 
further 
in 
is 
48 

10-54833 


responsibilities.  The  focus  of  the  Belgian  presence 
beyond 2011 will therefore likely be more and more on 
civilian assistance. 

Nobody can remain untouched by the devastation 
and human suffering caused by the floods in Pakistan. 
As  members  of  the  international  community,  we  have 
to 
take  on  our  responsibility.  This  “slow-motion 
tsunami”, as the Secretary-General called it, demands a 
long-term  and  strategic  answer.  Belgium  therefore 
welcomes  the  three-step  approach  —  the  meeting  last 
Sunday  in  New  York,  the  meeting  in  Brussels  next 
month  of  the  Friends  of  Democratic  Pakistan,  and  the 
donor event in November — which clearly sets out the 
framework for reconstruction. 

We have to move beyond the stage of emergency 
aid. In this respect, I am glad to say that the European 
Union last week took the firm commitment to improve 
market  access  for  Pakistan  as  a  concrete  measure  to 
reinvigorate Pakistan’s economy. 

Allow  me  to  conclude  by  recalling  John  F. 
Kennedy’s  observation  that  the  only  reward  for  a 
politician is a good conscience. It may be true that not 
many other rewards should be expected for politicians. 
But even so, the conscience of a politician cannot free 
him from the obligation of being accountable to those 
he wants to serve, to the people he wants to represent 
and to the country he wants to lead. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Jean-Marie  Ehouzou,  Special 
Envoy of the Republic of Benin. 
Mr. Ehouzou (Benin) (spoke in French): I bring 

a message on behalf of the President of the Republic of 
Benin,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Boni  Yayi,  who  was  not 
able  to  come  to  New  York  because  of  scheduling 
conflicts. He shares the ambition of the President of the 
General Assembly  at  the  sixty-fifth  session  to  build  a 
United  Nations  that  is  strong,  inclusive  and  open  as  a 
guarantor  of  global  governance.  I  am  convinced  that 
the  productive  experience  of  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at 
the  Swiss 
Government,  which  enabled  his  beautiful  country  to 
enter the United Nations, will be a valuable asset to us. 
From this perspective, Benin will make its contribution 
to the work of this session and, in so doing, will strive 
to  promote  the  ideals  of  the  Charter,  to  which  my 
country reiterates here its full support. 
the  head  of 
A/65/PV.12
loyal  service 
to 
the 

I  would  also  like  to  express  to  Mr.  Deiss  my 
warm  congratulations  on  his  election  as  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  the  sixty-fifth  session.  His 
predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ali  Treki,  who 
brilliantly  led  the  work  of  the  General Assembly  with 
respect to Africa, strove to find appropriate solutions to 
the  great  challenges  facing  humankind  with  skill  and 
tact throughout his mandate. We pay tribute to him for 
his  good  and 
international 
community. 

I would also like to welcome the courageous and 
determined action of His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon, 
Secretary-General of the United Nations, and commend 
him  for  having  taken  the  measure  of  the  grave  crises 
affecting the world and for his ongoing commitment to 
the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals 
by  2015.  Thanks  to  his  bold  initiatives  to  promote 
international  cooperation,  he  has  been  able  to  revive 
the  virtues  of  multilateralism  as  the  optimum  way  to 
manage world affairs in an inclusive and participatory 
framework  that  stresses  the  uniqueness  of  our  world 
and  the  common  responsibility  of  human  beings  to 
maintain  the  fundamental  balances  on  which  human 
survival on Earth depends and the sustainability of the 
biosphere. 

The  trail  blazed  by  the  founding  fathers  of  the 
United Nations in the areas of international peace and 
security, 
rights  and 
development  is  that  of  dialogue,  cooperation  and  a 
global  partnership  to  promote  the  common  good  of 
humankind. 

The  raison  d’être  of  the  United  Nations  is  not 
only to provide a framework of reference and universal 
convergence  to  coordinate  national  policies,  but  also 
and  above  all  to  address  interests  with  respect  to  the 
parameters 
tension  between 
aspirations and the demands of our peoples and States 
in all their diversity. 

If the United Nations did not exist it would have 
to  be  created,  because  we  cannot  imagine  a  world 
today  without  the  United  Nations.  I  would  therefore 
like 
the 
irreplaceable role of the United Nations and its funds, 
agencies, 
specialized 
institutions,  which  provide  an  invaluable  service  to 
humankind  as  a  secular  extension  of  our  collective 
conscience. 
the  promotion  of  human 
that  define  areas  of 
express  Benin’s 
commitment 
to 
to 
programmes 
and 
various 
10-54833 

49 

to 
the 
achievements  of 
The  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on 
A/65/PV.12 


the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) convened  by 
the  Secretary-General  defined  a  programme  of  action 
to  achieve  the  Goals  by  2015.  In  implementing  these 
measures,  it  is  important  to  take  continuously  into 
account  the  deadlines  set  for  the  achievement  of  the 
MDGs in the light of the additional difficulties related 
to  the  current  crises  of  the  financial  and  economic 
system and to previous crises. 

It  is  the  duty  of  the  international  community  to 
mobilize  the  resources  necessary  to  address  the  grave 
distortions 
these  crises.  Vulnerable 
that  caused 
countries  must  make 
relaunch 
investments 
sustainable  agricultural  production  and  maintain 
sustained  growth  capable  of  generating  long-term 
prosperity  and 
sustainable  human  development, 
because 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals must be guaranteed in perpetuity. 

The  United  Nations  must  now,  and  with  a  sense 
of urgency, use its full influence to provide the means 
to  help  countries  in  difficulty  ensure  the  survival  of 
threatened  populations  and  vulnerable  groups  that 
could be decimated by famine and disease if nothing is 
done  to  help  them.  The  time  has  come  to  give 
substance 
is 
unacceptable  that  hunger  should  persist  among  the 
causes  of  human  suffering  in  the  twenty-first  century. 
In 
term,  priority  focus  should  be  on 
strengthening social protection systems in low-income 
countries and on reactivating dormant local production 
capacity  by  promoting  small  and  medium-sized 
agricultural  businesses  in  order  to  avoid  a  drastic 
increase  in  the  number  of  people  living  in  extreme 
poverty. 

In the medium and long terms, it is necessary to 
rethink  policies  to  promote  investments  in  agriculture 
in order to re-establish the balance between cash crops 
and  food  products  and  thus  ensure  food  security  in 
countries, 
into 
account. 

to 
The 
evaluate  the  effectiveness  of  its  strategic  monitoring 
mechanisms  in  order  to  strengthen  their  ability  to 
foresee systemic shocks. What is predictable should be 
predicted  in  order  to  define  a  long-term  approach  and 
to  build,  on  the  basis  of  available  scientific  data,  a 
desirable  future  for  our  countries  and  peoples,  who 
must cooperate to that end. 
international  community  must  begin 
their  cultural  specificities 
food  because 
the  short 
taking 
right 
the 
to 
to 
it 
to 
In 
increase 
the  desired 
this  respect, 
the  proposal 

the 
agricultural share of official development assistance from 
3  per  cent  to  10  per  cent  is  a  strategic  approach  that 
should  be  implemented  with  common  political  will 
commensurate  to  the  challenge.  Here,  I  pay  tribute  to 
countries  that  have  already  made  concrete  commitments 
to providing additional resources to that end. 

Benin  is  an  agricultural  country,  and  agriculture 
must serve as a springboard for its development. In that 
regard, the Government of Benin is working to promote 
synergistic growth and the fight against poverty in order 
to align democracy and new-found freedoms with shared 
prosperity  by  carrying  out  the  social  transformations 
necessary  to  ensure  the  effective  participation  of  all 
sectors in national development efforts. 

The Government of Benin is working to promote 
agricultural  mechanization,  but  given  that  the  latter 
cannot  have 
impact  without  water 
management,  we  are  also  planning  for  rational 
management  of  that  resource  in  order  to  maximize  its 
use  and  ensure  its  sustainability.  These  investments 
will allow us to make the work of farmers less difficult 
and to limit post-harvest losses in order to ensure that 
agricultural  production  covers  national  needs  and 
generates surplus for export. 

to  diversify 
agricultural  production,  the  Government  of  Benin  is 
also  working  to  promote  crops  for  marginal  farming 
land  to  produce  biofuel.  The  goal  is  to  reduce 
dependence  on  and  the  rising  cost  of  hydrocarbons, 
which  have  been  exacerbated  by  the  drastic  drop  in 
hydroelectric  power  caused  by  climate  change,  which 
has  also  seriously  affected  the  country’s  economic 
activity in recent years. 
West  Africa  has  been  deeply  affected  by  soil 

degradation, coastal erosion and the effects of frequent 
floods  due  to  climate  change.  Here,  we  express  our 
appreciation  for  the  awareness-raising  undertaken  by 
the  secretariat  of  the  United  Nations  Convention  to 
Combat Desertification. It is important to devote more 
resources  to  implementing  the  Convention  in  the 
framework of fighting climate change. 
Adaptation  and  mitigation  measures  should  be 

implemented  with  a  sense  of  heightened  urgency  in 
order 
regions  affected.  Financial  and 
development  institutions  should  pay  special  attention 
to  programmes  to  revitalize  soil  and  to  promote 
irrigation farming and reforestation, using species that 
framework  of  efforts 
to  help 
the 
In 
50 

10-54833 


can 
increase  food  availability.  We  reaffirm  our 
sympathy for countries that have been struck this year 
by  natural  disasters,  in  particular  earthquakes,  and 
Haiti  in  particular,  with  which  we  share  close  lineage 
and cultural ties. 

My  country,  Benin,  will  hold  presidential  and 
legislative  elections  in  March  2011. After  20  years  of 
democracy during which elections have been organized 
on  the  basis  of  manually  recorded  lists,  my  country’s 
Government,  in  collaboration  with  the  United  Nations 
and  its  development  partners,  has  finally  decided  to 
create a computerized permanent electoral list that will 
ensure  transparent  elections  and  significantly  reduce 
complaints  and  other  post-electoral  difficulties.  The 
political  class  of  Benin  agrees  unanimously  on  the 
need  for  such  a  computerized  list,  but  differences 
remain  with  respect  to  the  process,  the  timing  of  its 
implementation  and  its  use  for  the  presidential  and 
legislative elections in March 2011. 

I am confident that, through dialogue and Benin’s 
creative genius, which ensured the outstanding success 
of  the  national  conference  of  political  stakeholders  in 
February  1990,  Benin  will  be  able  to  meet  this 
challenge  and  once  again  surprise  the  world.  I  call  on 
the United Nations and the international community to 
continue  to  support  the  efforts  of  the  Government  of 
Benin  to  work  successfully  to  address  the  major 
challenges of today and the future. 

international  peace  and 
security. This is the first of the major tasks assigned to 
the United Nations. In spite of the tireless efforts of the 
Organization 
organizations, 
humankind  continues  to  suffer  as  a  result  of  ongoing 
armed  conflicts,  the  destructiveness  of  which  leads  to 
unimaginable suffering for affected populations. 

condemn  without 
reservation  in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations,  also 
continues  to  indiscriminately  afflict  innocent  civilian 
including  humanitarian  workers  and 
populations, 
United  Nations  personnel  despite 
specific 
international protection they enjoy. 

We are concerned by these serious infringements 
of  the  humanitarian  principles  relevant  to  conflict 
situations. We must work to strengthen the authority of 
international  humanitarian  law  and  the  multilateral 
international  justice  institutions  in  order  to  increase 
their deterrence capacity with respect to serious crimes. 
Terrorism,  which  we 
We  must  maintain 
alongside 
regional 
the 
A/65/PV.12

Here  my  country  reiterates  the  importance  it 
assigns  to  the  responsibility  to  protect,  and  we  will 
spare  no  effort  to  ensure  its  operationalization  in 
accordance  with  the  fundamental  principles  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations. 

We appeal to all peoples and to all citizens of the 
world to respect the value of human life and to work in 
a spirit of peaceful coexistence and good-neighbourliness 
to  resolve  their  disputes  through  cooperation,  exchange 
and seeking mutual understanding, promoting a culture of 
peace and dialogue among religions for the common good 
of all humankind, at peace with itself. 

To  this  end,  we  must  pay  greater  attention  to 
efforts  to  eradicate  the  underlying  causes  of  conflict 
and  in  particular  to  put  an  end  to  the  illicit  trade  in 
small  arms  and  light  weapons  that  leads  to  their 
proliferation  and  thus  to  lawlessness  and  insecurity  in 
our towns and countryside. 
Respect  for  human  rights  and  civil  liberties 

means that human beings must be placed at the centre 
of sustainable development efforts, and it is the duty of 
the  international  community  to  ensure  this.  It  is 
essential that respecting human rights become a way of 
life  and  the  essential  standard  that  validates  human 
behaviour  on  a  daily  basis  so  as  to  promote  mutual 
respect,  equal  opportunities 
the  full 
realization of the potential of every individual. 

In  this  context,  I  would  like  to  highlight  the 
important  role  young  people  and  women  have  to  play 
in  the  development  of  our  countries.  In  declaring  the 
year  that  began  12  August  2010  as  the  International 
Year  of  Youth,  the  General  Assembly  highlighted  the 
contribution  that  young  people  make  to  society.  We 
urge  all  Member  States  to  give  concrete  substance  to 
the  International  Year  of  Youth,  in  line  with  the 
situation in their countries. 

The  theme  of  the  Year,  “Dialogue  and  Mutual 
Understanding”,  aims,  moreover,  to  foster  alliances 
among  the  generations.  The  Government  of  Benin  is 
determined 
its  modest  contribution  by 
supporting the effective holding of the United Nations 
Conference  on  Youth,  which 
is  currently  being 
prepared, to mark the Year. 

With  a  view  to  ensuring  that  the  potential  of 
women, who represent more than half of the population 
of my country, is fully realized, the Government has set 
up a National Institute for the Promotion of Women. A 
to  make 
life  and 
in 
10-54833 

51 

the 
stability  of 
this  programme  has  helped 
A/65/PV.12 

microcredit  programme  for the  poorest  women  was  also 
launched  to  ensure  the  promotion  of  their  economic 
activities.  To  date, 
to 
empower  almost  600,000  women  by  providing  income-
generating  activities.  The  programme 
should  be 
expanded, which will require additional financial support 
from the international community and, in particular, from 
technical and financial partners. 

Promoting  the  rule  of  law  at  the  international 
level requires the effective participation of all peoples 
in  the  management  of  world  affairs  in  the  interest  of 
current  and  future  generations.  In  particular, 
the 
representation  of  developing  countries  should  be 
strengthened  in  the  decision-making  bodies  of  the 
international  financial  institutions,  as  should  their 
accountability.  Their  institutional  mandates  should  be 
redefined so that they better help to mobilize resources 
in  support  of  the  development  of  the  least  developed 
countries,  while  ensuring 
the 
international financial system. 

The  Security  Council  is  an  essential  instrument 
for  global  governance.  Its  long-awaited  reform  cannot 
be  postponed  indefinitely.  Reform  efforts  are  being 
held  hostage  by  the  inherent  contradictions  in  today’s 
international  relations  and  remain  hopelessly  at  a 
standstill  despite 
importance  we  all 
recognize  them  to  have  for  the  effectiveness  of  the 
Organization. The ongoing negotiations towards reform 
must be carried out in good faith and with a keen sense 
of responsibility in order to preserve the credibility of 
the  Organization,  which  has  been  beset  by  heavy 
liabilities. 

Let  us  avoid  trite  formulations  that  evade the  very 
essence  of  reform,  which  is  to  ensure  the  equitable 
representation of States in both categories of membership 
and  to  guarantee  that  the  Council’s  decisions  have  the 
transparency,  legitimacy  and  authority  necessary  for  it 
more  effectively  to  uphold  its  primary  responsibility  for 
the maintenance of international peace and security. 
this 

this  respect,  Benin  reaffirms,  from 
rostrum,  Africa’s 
aspirations.  The 
democratization  of  the  United  Nations  also  means  a 
stronger  commitment  to  respect  for  national  and 
international law on the part of Member States. 

Here  Benin  renews  its  firm  commitment  to 
continuing  to  contribute  to  the  ongoing  adaptation 
efforts  of  the  Organization,  which  is  solidly  anchored 
in  its  main  principles  of  the  sovereign  equality  of 
the  crucial 
legitimate 
In 
fiftieth 
celebrate 
anniversary  of 
States,  respect  for  human  dignity,  the  promotion  of 
development  cooperation  and  the  search  for  the  best 
solutions to the world’s problems. 

In this spirit, I should like to conclude by making 
an urgent  appeal for the strengthening of international 
cooperation. International cooperation is neither a form 
of social assistance nor an organized hybrid system of 
begging  and  deception.  It  should  be  based  on 
legitimate  mutual  interests  —  a  joint  effort  towards  a 
contract  of  solidarity,  which  would  enable  us  together 
to attain the means to forge conditions for humanity to 
live in greater dignity and with ever-greater creativity. 
This  is  the  thought  that  inspires  us  in  this  year  when 
we 
the 
independence of 17 African countries. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  We 

have  heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  general  debate  for 
this meeting. 
Two  representatives  have  asked  to  speak  in 

exercise  of  the  right  of  reply.  May  I  remind  members 
that  statements  made  in  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply 
are limited to 10 minutes for the first intervention and 
5  minutes  for  the  second  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats. 
Mr.  Salsabili  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  This 

evening,  the  delegation  of  Belgium  made  baseless 
allegations  against 
Iranian  nuclear 
programme  by  considering  it  as  a  threat  to  the 
international  non-proliferation  regime.  In  this  regard 
and in exercise of right of reply, I should like to state 
the following. 

First, these allegations are without any foundation. 
Iran’s  nuclear  activities  are  and  always  have  been  for 
peaceful  purposes,  and  the  International Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (IAEA)  has  repeatedly  confirmed  the  peaceful 
nature of Iran’s nuclear programme. 

the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  the 
development  of  peaceful  nuclear  energy 
is  an 
inalienable  right  of  every  Member  State,  and  my 
country  is  no  exception  in  this  regard.  In  exercising 
this  right,  Iran  takes  its  responsibilities  seriously.  Our 
commitment to non-proliferation remains intact. 

And,  finally,  unwarranted  focus  on  the  peaceful, 
safeguarded  nuclear  facilities  of  the  Islamic  Republic 
of Iran, rather than addressing the existing proliferation 
threat  posed  by  the  secret,  non-safeguarded  nuclear-
Secondly,  according 
the  Treaty  on 
the  peaceful 
the 
to 
52 

10-54833 
installations  of 


is 
weapon 
counterproductive 
a  dangerous 
distraction. We urge Belgium to refrain from turning a 
blind  eye  to  that  genuine  proliferation  threat  and,  in 
this  context,  to  abandon  its  inconsistent  approach  to 
non-proliferation. 
the  Zionist 
constitutes 
and 
regime, 
A/65/PV.12
Mr. Grauls (Belgium): I would like to remind the 

representative of Iran that Belgium, as a member of the 
European  Union, 
the  position 
repeatedly  expressed  by  the  European  Union  with 
regard to the Iranian nuclear issue. 
The meeting rose at 3.10 p.m. 

fully  adheres 
to 
10-54833 

53 
