
A/65/PV.26
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

26th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 5 October 2010, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 
its Member States. The United Nations Charter asks the 
Secretariat  to  observe  the  principles  and  carry  out  the 
programmes in a thorough and impartial manner. 

If we consider multilateralism to be at the core of 
the United Nations, then the United Nations should be 
considered as an Organization that is owned and run by 
its  whole  membership,  as  is  well  symbolized  in  the 
General  Assembly.  The  ownership  and  conduct  of  its 
work  are  envisaged  through  the  three  main  pillars  of 
United  Nations  activities  as  clearly  defined  in  the 
Charter  and  reaffirmed  by  Member  States  in  several 
international agreements. Those need to be treated in a 
balanced  manner  and  seen  as  an  integral  part  of  the 
Organization’s agenda. 
In  this  sense,  it  is  expected  that  promoting  the 

role  of 
the  most 
representative  policy-making  organ  of  the  United 
Nations will be placed at the top of the agenda of this 
report,  owing  to  the  need  to  enhance  multilateralism. 
However,  in  our  view,  that  has  not  received  proper 
attention  in  the  report,  despite  improvements  made 
during  the  past  year  through  the  work  of  the Ad  Hoc 
Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly. The Working Group approved by consensus 
the  enhancement  of  the  role  of  the  General Assembly. 
In  fact,  the  revitalization  of  the  General Assembly  as 
an  integral  part  of  the  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
United  Nations  is  a  dynamic  and  continuous  process. 
Thus,  we  should  remain  constructively  committed  to 
this ongoing process, with a view to strengthening the 
role and authority of the Assembly.  
the  General  Assembly 
as 







In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Ndong  Mba 
(Equatorial Guinea), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 


for  all  of 
Agenda item 108 (continued) 
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the 
Organization (A/65/1) 
Mr. Khazaee (Islamic Republic of Iran): I would 

first like to express my appreciation for the opportunity 
to  consider  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the 
work  of  the  Organization,  contained  in  document 
A/65/1.  At  the  outset,  allow  me  to  pay  tribute  and 
express  my  sympathy 
the  dedicated 
colleagues  and  United  Nations  officials  and  experts 
who lost their lives in different nations in the past year. 

I would like to limit myself to some of the major 
issues  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report  that  we  found 
worthy of mentioning. One of the most important parts 
of  the  report  addresses  creating  a  stronger  United 
Nations.  On  this  issue  we  share  the  vision  of  the 
Secretary-General that: 

just  a 

collection  of  buildings,  a  sequence  of  meetings,  a 
set of reports and consultations” (A/65/1, para. 165).  

But  we  believe  that  this  is  one  side  of  the  coin 
when it comes to strengthening the United Nations. We 
are also of the view that the Organization stands for its 
commitments  to  the  peoples  of  the  world  through  its 
principles and programmes as endorsed and adopted by 
“The  Organization 
is  more 
than 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-56786 (E) 
*1056786* 


in 
the 
role 
international 
A/65/PV.26 


The tendency to overemphasize some areas at the 
expense of others will harm the equilibrium of United 
Nations activities and thus its image as an Organization 
that  works  for  all.  Regrettably,  the  substantive  part  of 
the  report  reflects  the  existence  of  such  imbalance  in 
United  Nations  activities  in  the  areas  of  development 
and  global  partnerships  to  strengthen  the  United 
Nations 
financial  and 
economic system in the aftermath of the crisis. 

We  align  ourselves  with  the  view  expressed  by 
the  Secretary-General  on  the  negative  impact  of  the 
ongoing economic and food crises on human rights. In 
much  of  the  developing  world,  national  development 
efforts  to  provide  a  better  life  for  the  people  have 
lagged under the weight of such crises. We believe that 
the  response  of  the  United  Nations  system  to  these 
challenges should also embrace the acknowledgment of 
the  right  to  development.  Furthermore,  we  share  the 
report’s  concerns  over  the  increasing  incidents  of 
xenophobia and discrimination against non-citizens. 

On  the  issue  of  peacekeeping  operations,  we 
welcome  the  news  that  the  number  of  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  missions  is  not  going  to  substantially 
increase in the future and that it is time to consolidate 
and  deepen  our  work  on  existing  ones.  If 
this 
prediction  is  to  be  considered  as  a  basis  for  United 
Nations  policies  and  action  on  peacekeeping  in  the 
coming  years,  it  is  incumbent  upon  us  to  make  every 
effort to ensure that expanding peacekeeping processes 
in different targeted countries and regions is the result 
of  close  consultations  among  major  stakeholders, 
including the General Assembly, the Secretariat, troop-
contributing  countries  and  representatives  of  host 
countries.  

Furthermore,  due  attention  should  be  paid  to  the 
fact  that  all  strategies  and  policies  of  the  Secretariat 
concerning  the  issue  of  peacekeeping  should  be  the 
product  of  an  open  and  inclusive  dialogue  with  the 
intergovernmental  bodies, 
relevant  United  Nations 
the  General  Assembly  and 
especially 
its  Special 
Committee on Peacekeeping Operations. 

It  is  also  important  to  note  that  a  number  of 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  have  been 
created  following  acts  of  military  aggression  against 
certain nations and the illegal occupation of their lands. 
In  that  regard,  all  three  existing  United  Nations 
peacekeeping missions in the Middle East, namely, the 
United  Nations  Disengagement  Observer  Force,  the 
vague, 
undefined 
prioritizing 
United  Nations  Interim  Force  in  Lebanon  and  the 
United  Nations  Truce  Supervision  Organization,  were 
initiated  after  a  certain  regime  illegally  and  forcibly 
occupied the lands of three other nations in the region.  

Needless  to  say,  the  only  way  to  lead  these 
missions  to  a  successful  conclusion  is  to  put  pressure 
on the occupying Power and force it to accept the will 
of  the  international  community,  as  reflected  in  dozens 
of  United  Nations  resolutions,  and 
to  withdraw 
unconditionally from all occupied lands. This is among 
the main prerequisites for the establishment of a lasting 
and durable peace in the region. 

With  regard  to  developing  new  concepts  in  the 
report,  we  should  avoid  entertaining  and  even 
artificially 
and 
controversial  notions  that  are  still  under  review  and 
consideration  by  the  general  membership,  such  as  the 
concept  of  the  responsibility  to  protect  or  of  global 
goods. No doubt, the international community must be 
vigilant  not  to  let  the  horrors  of  mass  killings  and 
genocide  of  the  past  be  repeated  in  the  future.  This 
should  not,  however,  be  done  in  a  manner  that 
prejudices  the  established  principles  of  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations,  particularly  the  principles  of 
respect  for  the  sovereignty,  territorial  integrity  and 
political  independence  of  States  and  non-intervention 
in their internal affairs.  

The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  believes  that  the 
notion  of  the  responsibility  to  protect  needs  to  be 
further  discussed  and  clearly  defined  and  refined. The 
debates held on this notion thus far clearly indicate that 
there 
concerns 
surrounding this concept, which need to be addressed. 
Having  said  that,  we  cannot  endorse  the  way  this 
notion has been referred to in the report. We therefore 
expect  the  Secretary-General  to  reconsider  the  format 
of future reports, to maintain their devotion to the three 
main pillars of United Nations activities. 

many 
underrepresented developing countries, continues to be 
concerned  about  the  failure  of  the  Secretariat  to  meet 
equitable  geographic  representation  goals  vis-à-vis  its 
staff, in particular in senior management positions. We 
continue  to  urge  the  Secretary-General  to  engage  his 
Office  to  this  end  and  improve  the  international 
character of the Secretariat. 
Finally,  we  welcome  the  cooperation  of  the 

United Nations with regional organizations, taking into 
still  many  questions 
delegation, 
and 
are 
My 
along 
with 
2 

10-56786 
its 
of 
the 
of 
office 
thanks 
(spoke 
including  Asian 


account  the  principles  and  objectives  of  the  United 
Nations  as  enshrined  in  the  Charter.  We  also  call  for 
expanding the geographical scope of such cooperation 
in  a  way  that  incorporates  all  active  and  willing 
regional  organizations, 
regional 
organizations,  in  particular  the  Economic  Cooperation 
Organization in the West Asian region. 
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

in  Spanish):  The  Bolivarian 
Venezuela) 
Republic  of  Venezuela  expresses 
to 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  having  submitted 
his annual report to the General Assembly (A/65/1) on 
the  work  of  the  Organization. We  appreciate  the  good 
offices  of  the  Secretary-General,  which  enabled  the 
reactivation 
the  Personal 
Representative of the Secretary-General on the Border 
Controversy  between  Guyana  and  Venezuela.  A 
distinguished  Jamaican,  Mr.  Norman  Girvan,  was 
appointed  to  that  post  to  encourage  dialogue  on  the 
dispute  between  Venezuela  and  Guyana  over  the 
Guyana-Essequibo territory. 

Despite  what  is  stated  in  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General,  the  global  financial  and  economic 
crisis  of  capitalism  continues  to  intensify.  That  crisis 
was  caused  by 
the 
complicity of the world’s most powerful Governments 
and the Bretton Woods institutions. 

the  United  Nations  should 
promote a development model based on values such as 
solidarity, justice, social inclusion, equality, respect for 
human rights and citizen participation. 

Venezuela  calls  for  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council, which requires an immediate expansion in its 
membership  to  include  representatives  of  countries  in 
Africa,  Asia,  Latin  America  and 
the  Caribbean. 
Venezuela  demands  the  elimination  of  undemocratic 
privileges  related  to  the  use  of  the  veto,  which  were 
inherited  from  the  Second  World  War  and  the  Cold 
War. 

the  General 
Assembly,  as  a  body  that  is  representative  of  all 
countries,  reclaims  its  rightful  role,  which  has  been 
usurped  by  the  Security  Council.  We  also  call  for  the 
direct and universal participation of all countries on an 
equal footing in the selection of the Secretary-General. 

According  to  Article  100  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations, the Secretary-General and the staff of 
financial  speculators,  with 
Venezuela  also  demands 
We  believe 
that 
that 
A/65/PV.26
is 
can 
that 
that 
consensus 
Venezuela’s  aspiration 
the  Secretariat  “shall  not  seek  or  receive  instructions 
from  any  Government  or  from  any  other  authority 
external to the Organization”. It is clear, therefore, that 
the  Secretary-General  should  represent 
the  entire 
Organization  and  ensure  that  the  interests  of  powerful 
countries  are  not imposed  on the most  vulnerable. We 
believe that it is not appropriate to attempt to introduce 
into  the  work  of  the  Organization  agreements  reached 
at  other  forums  for  negotiation,  such  as  the  Group  of 
20 or the Group of Eight.  

the  upcoming 
summit  on  climate  change  to  be  held  in  Cancún  later 
this  year  will  reach  a  legally  binding  and  ambitious 
agreement  that  scrupulously  respects  the  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change  and 
the  Kyoto 
Protocol, which some wish to ignore. 

The Secretary-General states in paragraph 108 of 
his report that, in the framework of the United Nations 
Climate  Change  Conference 
in  Copenhagen, 
“Important  progress  was  achieved  in  building  a  broad 
political 
invigorate  global 
negotiations”.  He  also  states,  in  the  next  paragraph, 
that  negotiations  on  climate  change  should  “build  on 
the  elements  of  agreement 
from 
Copenhagen”.  Alarmingly,  however,  he  makes  no 
mention of the Kyoto Protocol.  

We  wish  to  recall  that  the  President  of  the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  Mr.  Hugo  Chávez 
Frías,  expressed  the  disagreement  of  the  member 
countries of the Bolivarian Alliance for the Peoples of 
Our America  with  the  undemocratic  manner  in  which 
the Copenhagen Accord was adopted.  

It  is  of  concern  that  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  includes  the  concept  of  the  responsibility  to 
protect,  all  the  more  so  if  it  is  seen,  in  the  words  of 
paragraph 85, as a “prerequisite[] for the promotion of 
human welfare” and as “permit[ting] the realization of 
a  stable  polity”.  In  resolution  63/308,  Member  States 
agreed  to  continue  evaluating  and  considering  this 
concept. We wish to emphasize that the concept of the 
responsibility  to  protect  is  still  under  discussion  by 
Member  States.  It  is  therefore  questionable  that  there 
already  exist  in  the  United  Nations  offices  and  staff 
dedicated  to  promoting  the  concept.  We  wonder  what 
resolution gave the mandate for that. 
The  concept  of  the  responsibility  to  protect  is  a 

intervention, 
sophisticated  variant  of  humanitarian 
which  has  already  been  rejected  in  this  forum.  This 
that  emerged 
10-56786 

3 

to 
impose 
is  a  group  of  countries 
A/65/PV.26 

concept erodes the principles of sovereignty, territorial 
integrity and non-interference in the internal affairs of 
other States, which are enshrined in the Charter of the 
United  Nations.  Without  these  principles,  developing 
countries  would  be  at  the  mercy  of  the  schemes  of 
imperialist  Powers,  which  seek 
their 
economic,  political  and  military  interests,  often  by 
force. 

Venezuela, Mr. Hugo Chávez Frías, has declared that  

The  head  of  State  of  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of 
that  believe 
“here 
themselves  superior  to  us  in  the  South,  to  us  in 
the Third World, to us the underdeveloped — or, 
as the great writer Eduardo Galeano has said, we 
the  countries  crushed  as  if  by  the  train  of 
history”.  

It is therefore regrettable that there are imperialist 
countries that believe themselves to be the repositories 
of  moral  greatness,  truth  and  freedom,  and  disrespect 
the  historical,  cultural  and  religious  truths  of  other 
nations.  

The  United  Nations  as  it  is  today  reflects  the 
unfair and inequitable power relations that exist in the 
world.  We  have  already  said  so.  It 
to  
re-establish  the  United  Nations.  It  is  time  to  prevent 
the  Organization  from  continuing  to  be  a  tool  of 
powerful  countries.  It  is  time  that  it  expresses  the 
interests  of  all  countries,  especially  developing 
countries. 
Mr.  Sangqu  (South  Africa):  My  delegation 

thanks the Secretary-General for his report contained in 
document A/65/1. South Africa is of the view that  the 
debate  on  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the 
work  of  the  Organization  is  an  apt  way  to  start  our 
activities  in  the  General  Assembly,  as  it  allows  us  to 
take stock and reflect on the work we are doing as an 
Organization,  both  as  Member  States  and  as  the 
Secretariat. 

General that 

I wish to refer to the conclusion of the Secretary- 

just  a 
collection of buildings, a sequence of meetings, a set 
of  reports  and  consultations  or  even  a  set  of 
principles  and  programmes.  Fundamentally,  the 
Organization is about its people” (A/65/1, para. 165). 
“The  Organization 
is  more 
time 
than 
is 
in 
to 
the 
fulfil 
three, 
namely, 
themselves 
to  achieving 
implementation 
its  decisions  and 
to  all  Member  States 
If  indeed  the  Organization  is  about  its  people,  it 

should  always  reflect 
their 
implementation  the  interests  of  the  people,  especially 
the poorest of the poor. 

There  are  many  important  issues  highlighted  in 
the report of the Secretary-General. But I will highlight 
only 
of 
commitments,  climate  change  and  international  peace 
and security. 

We  have  just  concluded  a  successful  High-level 
Plenary  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
integrated  and  coordinated  implementation  of  and 
follow-up  to  the  Millennium  Summit,  in  which  our 
leaders  recommitted 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  by  2015.  In 
this  regard,  it  is  crucial  that  international  cooperation 
be  enhanced  and  global  partnerships  strengthened  in 
order  to  achieve  all  eight  MDGs  by  2015.  We  repeat 
our  call 
their 
commitments, especially developed countries.  

We hear too often of very generous pledges being 
made, but the implementation of those commitments is 
lacking. Commitments and pledges are taken seriously 
by  recipient  Governments,  which  seriously  rely  on 
them  in  their  programmatic  efforts  to  deliver  much-
needed services to their peoples. For example, we have 
taken  note  that  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
states that fewer than half of the member States of the 
Organization 
and 
Development have met their target of donating 0.15 to 
0.20  per  cent  of  gross  national  income  to  the  least 
developed countries. 
is 
the 

to  my  delegation 
projected  official  development  assistance 
(ODA) 
shortfall  of  $16  billion  committed  to  the  African 
continent at the Group of Eight meeting at Gleneagles 
in 2005. The Secretary-General correctly observes that, 
“A decade of deep commitment to reform and political 
and economic stability is beginning to have an impact 
on  Africa’s  development  path”  (ibid.,  para.  32). 
However,  the  report  also  notes  the  special  needs  of 
Africa  and  the  impact  that  the  decline  in  ODA  and 
reduced economic growth rate will have on addressing 
these needs and challenges in Africa and on our hard-
won stability. 

We cannot agree more with the Secretary-General 
when  he  states  that  “Africa’s  people  need  neither  pity 
nor charity” (ibid., para. 35). In this relation, we need 
for  Economic  Cooperation 
Of  equal  concern 
4 

10-56786 


support and tools to address the challenges that face us, 
not  only  to  improve  the  lives  of  all  the  people  on  our 
continent  but  also  to  ensure  sustained  stability  and 
economic  growth.  It  is  South  Africa’s  long-standing 
position  that  the  world  cannot  fully  progress  and 
achieve its potential if Africa is left behind. We remain 
committed  to  the  goals  and  objectives  of  the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development,  and  we  will 
continue  to  promote  them  during  our  participation  at 
the sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly and its 
Main Committees. 

One of the major challenges also identified in the 
Secretary-General’s report is climate change. The issue 
of climate change is among key issues on the agenda of 
this  Organization.  We  note  the  Secretary-General’s 
efforts  to  ensure  that  participation  in  the  climate 
change  discourse  is  a  strategic  imperative  for  world 
leaders.  My  delegation  supports  the  Copenhagen 
Accord,  which  contains  the  elements  for  a  political 
agreement within the framework of the United Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  and  can 
serve as the basis for a dual-track negotiating process. 
We  should  build  on  the  gains  already  achieved  and 
enhance  the  momentum  so  as  to  arrive  at  a  legally 
binding agreement at the Conference on climate change 
to be held later this year in Mexico. 

All  our  efforts  towards  sustainable  development 
will  only  have  marginal  impact  if  we  cannot  ensure 
peace  and  security  for  our  people.  The  Secretary-
General  has  correctly  stated  that  the  duty  to  maintain 
international  peace  and  security  through  prevention, 
containment and the resolution of conflict is enshrined 
in  the  Charter  of  this  Organization  and  is  an  integral 
part  of  its  work.  My  delegation  has  noted  with 
satisfaction the efforts of the Secretary-General and the 
Organization  to  assist  with  preventative  diplomacy, 
including through mediation efforts and initiatives such 
as  post-conflict  peacebuilding  and  capacity-building, 
especially  in  Africa  and  the  Middle  East.  While 
progress has been recorded in the efforts of the United 
Nations  to  work  with  the African  Union  in  support  of 
peace efforts on our continent, much more still remains 
to be done in implementing the Prodi report on Chapter 
VIII of the Charter. 

the  fiftieth  anniversary  of 
resolution 1514 (XV) on the granting of independence 
to  colonial  countries  and  peoples.  That  resolution 
asserted  the  inalienable  right  of  countries  and  peoples 
to  complete  freedom,  the  universal  respect  for  human 
This  year  marks 
A/65/PV.26
in 
their  right 
rights and the right to self determination. South Africa 
regrets  the  fact  that  the  promise  contained  in  the 
United  Nations  Charter  and  that  resolution  has  not 
been  fully  realized  in  Africa  with  respect  to  Western 
Sahara,  the  last  remaining  colony  on  the  continent  of 
Africa.  The  people  of  Western  Sahara  are  entitled  to 
fully  exercise  their  right  to  self-determination  and 
deserve nothing less. In that regard the United Nations 
must play a meaningful role in ensuring that the people 
of  Western  Sahara  exercise 
to  self-
determination. 

The  United  Nations  must  continue  to  work 
towards  the  attainment  of  a  lasting  and  peaceful 
settlement  in  the  Middle  East.  While  the  first  few 
rounds  of  direct  Israeli-Palestinian  talks  held  during 
September  2010  appeared  to  demonstrate  a  clear 
intention by both parties to effectively move the peace 
process  forward,  my  Government  has  noted  with 
serious concern that the partial moratorium imposed by 
the  Israeli  Government  in  November  2009  on  the 
further  construction  of  Israeli  settlements 
the 
occupied Palestinian West Bank has not been renewed. 
We  call  on  the  Israeli  Government  to  honour  its 
previous  international  commitments  by  putting  an  end 
to all further settlement construction in the Palestinian 
West  Bank  indefinitely.  In  so  doing,  Israel  would 
demonstrate  its  serious  intention  to  bring  about  the 
establishment  of  a  viable  and  fully 
independent 
Palestinian  State,  existing  side  by  side  in  peace  with 
Israel  within  internationally  recognized  borders.  The 
people of Palestine have for too long had their dreams 
dashed  by  half-hearted  measures  and  by  each  new 
peace  process  that  fails  to  deliver  a  viable  and  fully 
independent Palestinian State. 

In our view, the Organization is in desperate need 
of reform in order to be more effective and efficient in 
responding  to  matters  relating  to  international  peace 
and security. In this connection, we must continue our 
efforts to revitalize the General Assembly. 
increased  cooperation 

between  this  body  and  the  Security  Council  and 
encourage  the  Organization  to  continue  to  strengthen 
its  efforts  to  respond  to  matters  of  international 
concern, including peace and security. We do not wish 
to see the General Assembly usurp the mandate of the 
Security  Council,  but  we  do  believe  that  the  Security 
Council  —  working  hand  in  hand  with  the  General 
Assembly  —  can 
to 
international crises. 
respond  more  effectively 
We  acknowledge 
the 
10-56786 

5 

A/65/PV.26 


We  believe  that  a  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  is  necessary  and  urgent.  Africa  and 
Latin America have waited too long to gain permanent 
representation.  The  Security  Council  must  therefore 
expand in both its categories, especially the permanent 
one, in order to redress that historical injustice. 

We  have  just  completed  the  general  debate 
segment  of  the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly. The theme for the debate was “Reaffirming 
the  central  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  global 
governance”. South Africa reiterates its commitment to 
the principle of multilateralism and the central role that 
the  United  Nations  plays  in  global  governance.  As 
Member States, we must redouble our efforts to ensure 
that  all  the  principal  organs  of  the  Organization  are 
focused  on  addressing  the  needs  of  our  people, 
especially the most vulnerable. 

In conclusion, my delegation wishes to thank the 
Secretary-General and the Secretariat for their services 
to  the  Organization,  and  we  convey  to  the  Secretary-
General, the Secretariat, the President of this Assembly 
and  all  Member  States  our  commitment  to  ensuring 
that we progress closer to our shared goal of achieving 
a better world for all. 
Mr.  Sinhaseni  (Thailand):  First  of  all,  I  would 

like  to  add  my  voice  to  those  thanking  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  report  (A/65/1).  Thailand  had  studied 
the  report  carefully.  We  agree  with  the  Secretary-
General’s  assessment  that  the  global  recovery  we  are 
experiencing is fragile and uneven and that it requires 
political will and leadership to enhance the well-being 
of all, especially the poor and the vulnerable. 

Thailand  believes  that  multilateralism  is  not  an 
option  but  a  must,  if  we  are  to  realize  our  common 
goals.  The  United  Nations,  with 
its  universal 
membership, can and should do more to provide global 
leadership  and  coordinate  global  actions.  In  that 
regard,  as  reflected  in  the  statement  of  Thailand’s 
Foreign  Minister  during  the  general  debate,  Thailand 
will  continue  to  be  a  strong  supporter  of  the  United 
Nations in pursuing our common goals, consistent with 
the  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter.  Furthermore, 
through  our  active  participation  in  the  Association  of 
Southeast  Asian  Nations 
and  other 
multilateral  forums,  we  will  ensure  that  that  message 
resonates within our region and beyond. 
Thailand  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 

share our views on some issues that we feel are critical. 
(ASEAN) 
reminds  us 
the 
realization  of 
the  United  Nations  and 
First,  on  development,  we  are  concerned  that  the 
impacts  of  the  recent  global  financial  and  economic 
crisis  may  derail  progress  towards  achievement  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  in  many 
countries around the world. The recent global financial 
crisis 
that  development  should  be 
measured,  not  by  nominal  growth  numbers,  but  rather 
by its ability to achieve balanced, inclusive, green and 
integrated  growth,  where  extra  care  is  given  to  the 
disadvantaged  and  the  vulnerable.  In  that  connection, 
Thailand  encourages  the  United  Nations  to  accelerate 
its  efforts  to  promote  achievement  of  the  MDGs  by 
2015, with people-centred development, moderation in 
consumption  and  optimal  use  of  resources  as  guiding 
principles. 
Of  the  eight  MDGs,  we  feel  that  international 

cooperation, as called for in MDG 8, is most crucial to 
ensure 
the  MDGs  by  2015. 
International  cooperation  must  be  demand-oriented.  It 
should take into account local conditions and facilitate 
transfer  of  knowledge  and  technology.  Additionally, 
regional  cooperation,  as  well  as  enhanced  partnership 
regional  and 
between 
subregional  groups,  should  further  accelerate 
the 
achievement of the MDGs. 
In  South-East Asia, ASEAN  integration,  through 

infrastructure, 
enhanced  connectivity  of  physical 
to  narrow 
institutions  and  people, 
development  gaps  and  promote  local  socio-economic 
empowerment. Furthermore, the entry into force of the 
Chiang  Mai  Initiative  Multilateralization  Agreement 
and  the  creation  of  a  regional  economic  surveillance 
mechanism  are  two  notable  examples  of  regional 
cooperation  aimed  at  helping  to  ensure  economic 
growth and resilience. While committed to a strong and 
fully integrated ASEAN, Thailand continues to call for 
and  promote  closer  and  action-oriented  partnership 
between ASEAN and the United Nations, especially on 
social and economic development. 
Secondly,  on  peace  and  security,  Thailand 

commends the efforts of the United Nations in the past 
year  in  the  areas  of  conflict  prevention,  peacekeeping 
and  peacebuilding.  We  would  like  to  stress  that  close 
consultations  between 
the  United  Nations  and 
concerned Member States, as well as ownership in both 
the  process  and  the  outcome,  are  crucial  to  achieving 
sustainable  peace  on  the  ground. Any  intervention  by 
the United Nations should be guided by the needs and 
consent of the host country. 
is  expected 
6 

10-56786 
and 
taking 
and  hopes 
that 



Regarding  disarmament, Thailand  commends  the 
Secretary-General  for  convening  the  recent  high-level 
meeting on revitalizing the work of the  conference on 
disarmament 
forward  multilateral 
disarmament  negotiations 
the 
Conference  will  soon  make  progress  on  substantive 
issues.  We  also  reiterate  the  call  for  expansion  of  the 
membership  of  the  Conference  on  Disarmament  and 
the appointment of a special coordinator on expansion 
of the membership of the Conference for 2011. 

Thirdly, human rights form a core principle of the 
Thai  Government  and  its  foreign  policy.  We  believe 
that  only  engagement  and  dialogue  can  make  a  real 
impact on improving people’s lives and can ultimately 
help  pave  the  way  towards  peace. The  creation  of  the 
ASEAN  Intergovernmental  Commission  on  Human 
Rights  reflects  our  region’s  determination  to  promote 
and  protect  human  rights.  United  Nations  support  for 
that  effort  can  further  advance  the  cause  of  human 
rights within the region and beyond. 

As  the  report  by  the  Secretary-General  rightly 
states,  women  are  one  of  the  greatest  forces  for 
positive  change  in  the  world.  In  that  regard, Thailand 
welcomes the creation of UN Women and is confident 
that,  under  the  leadership  of  Her  Excellency  Ms. 
Michelle  Bachelet,  marked  improvement  in  global 
gender  equality  and  women’s  empowerment  will  be 
made. 

On  a  related  note,  Thailand  also  commends  the 
United  Nations  initiative  to  ensure  more  equitable 
gender  representation  within 
the  United  Nations 
system. 

For  our  part,  Thailand  has  done  what  it  can  to 
contribute  to  international  human  rights  norm-setting, 
an  example  of  which  has  already  been  recommended 
by the Economic and Social Council for adoption at the 
current  session  of  the  General Assembly. Through  the 
initiative 
Princess 
Bajrakitiyabha  Mahidol’s  draft  United  Nations  Rules 
for 
and  
Non-custodial Measures for Women Offenders, soon to 
be submitted by the Third Committee to the Assembly 
for adoption, we hope that the specific needs of women 
prisoners, not only in Thailand but also in correctional 
facilities throughout the world, will be catered to. 

the  Organization, 
Thailand believes that Member States should be closely 
consulted  and  kept  informed  about  the  work  and 
the  Treatment  of  Women  Prisoners 
of  Her  Royal  Highness 
Fourthly,  on 
the  work  of 
A/65/PV.26
the  definition  of 
initiatives  of  the  Secretariat,  United  Nations  mandate 
holders, agencies, funds and programmes, on a regular 
basis  and  in  a  transparent  manner,  especially  when 
changes  involve  the  creation  of  new  mandates,  the 
expansion  of  existing  mandates,  the  initiation  of  new 
concepts  and 
their  application. 
Without  a common understanding on the way forward 
and  the  direction  of  the  Organization  and  without 
general  support  of  the  United  Nations  membership, 
despite  good  intentions,  such  changes  could  bring 
unintended  consequences  and  might  be  detrimental  to 
the overall work of the Organization. 

the  Secretary-
Lastly,  Thailand  agrees  with 
General that the United Nations must adapt to the new 
environment by becoming more efficient, effective and 
more  accountable,  while  at  the  same  time  ensuring 
coherence  and  coordination  among  all 
relevant 
agencies  in  the  system.  Nevertheless,  the  United 
Nations  cannot,  and  should  not,  do  everything.  The 
United  Nations  must  prioritize 
its  work  and 
responsibilities  and  work  closely  with  Member  States 
and partners in all of the various sectors. 
Mr. Elshareef (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): At the 

outset,  I  should  like  to  express  our  deep  thanks  and 
appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for  his  annual 
report on the work of the Organization, as contained in 
document  A/65/1.  We  appreciate  the  efforts  of  the 
Secretary-General  across  a  range  of  areas,  especially 
now that our world is facing various challenges. 

The  report  mentions  what  has  been  achieved  by 
the  Organization  in  many  fields,  such  as  work  to 
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 
and  other  internationally  agreed  development  goals. 
However, there are great disparities between countries 
in  that  respect,  and  in  order  to  realize  the  MDGs,  the 
international community must fulfil its commitment to 
expedite progress towards that end. 

In  the  area  of  peacekeeping,  we  underscore  the 
positive  cooperation  and  the  valuable  contributions  of 
the  United  Nations  through  its  two  Missions  in  the 
Sudan, 
the  African  Union-United  Nations  Hybrid 
Operation in Darfur and the United Nations Mission in 
the  Sudan  —  especially  for  their  contributions  during 
the  elections  held  last  April,  among  the  various 
international  efforts  taking  place  in  the  country.  We 
also  appreciate  the  announcement  and  the  will  shown 
by the United Nations and the international community 
to  cooperate  in  order  to  ensure  the  success  of  the 
10-56786 

7 

A/65/PV.26 

referendum on self-determination in Southern Sudan to 
be held in January 2011. 

On  this  occasion,  we  call  on  the  United  Nations 
and the international community to fulfil their promises 
to support all of the efforts to implement the remaining 
parts  of  the  Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement  and  to 
support the peace process in Darfur. In this respect, we 
commend  the  constructive  cooperation  between  the 
United  Nations  and  the  African  Union,  on  the  one 
hand, and my country on the other hand, with a view to 
overcoming  all  of  the  obstacles  and  to  enhancing 
constructive  consultations  between  the  Sudan  as  the 
host country and all of the participating parties in order 
to  fulfil  the  mandate  of  the  Mission.  Here,  I  am 
referring  to  the  various  meetings  of  the  tripartite 
mechanism,  which  comprises  the  United  Nations,  the 
African Union and the Sudan and last met here in New 
York on 27 September 2010 to discuss the situation of 
the  Mission,  with  the  participation  of  the  Under-
Secretaries-General  for  Peacekeeping  Operations  and 
Field Support, the Permanent Secretary of the Ministry 
for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the 
representatives  of  the  African  Union.  In  that  context, 
all  of  the  participants  at  that  meeting  commended  the 
the  competent 
spirit  of  cooperation  shown  by 
authorities 
the 
implementation of the Mission’s mandate, and stressed 
the need to strengthen mechanisms for cooperation and 
consultation. 

We  also  wish  to  note  that,  by  virtue  of  that 
cooperation,  Mission  deployment  has  now  passed  80 
per cent, and marked improvement has been seen in the 
security and humanitarian situation in Darfur. 

With reference to what is mentioned at the end of 
paragraph  54  of  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
under consideration: 

“restrictions  on  the  freedom  of  movement  of  the 
African  Union-United  Nations  Hybrid  Operation 
in  Darfur  continued  to  hamper  the  Operation’s 
(A/65/1, 
ability 
to 
 para. 54). 

This situation is the result of incidents that affect 
some of the work owing to the prevalence of criminals, 
bandits  and  members  of  the  rebel  movements,  which 
have 
security 
precautions  to  be  taken  in  order  to  safeguard  the 
interests  of  the  Missions,  as  well  as  their  personnel, 
and  of  other  humanitarian  organizations  working  in 
splintered.  This 
requires  certain 
in  my  country 
in  assisting 
implement 
its  mandate” 
the  Sudan 
and 
in 
In  conclusion,  allow  me 
Darfur,  so  that  they  are  not  subject  to  kidnapping  and 
any aggressive acts against them and their property. 

My Government reaffirms its commitment not to 
hamper  the  work  of  the  Mission  and  reiterates  its 
commitment  to  cooperate  fully  with  all  parties  and 
stakeholders  concerned  to  fulfil  the  mandate  of  the 
Mission. We also wish to stress that negotiations in the 
peace process are continuing in Doha, Qatar. From this 
rostrum,  we  reiterate  our  invitation  and  call  upon  the 
United  Nations  and  the  international  community  to 
exert  pressure  on  the  rebel  movements  that  have 
refused to participate in the Doha peace negotiations to 
ensure that peace prevails throughout Darfur.  

to  emphasize  my 
country’s  principled  position  to  achieve  peace  and  to 
conduct  the  referendum  on  the  date  stipulated  in  the 
Comprehensive  Peace Agreement. We  also  call  on  the 
international  community  and  the  United  Nations  to 
fulfil their obligations to the peace process and support 
the  negotiations  in  order  to  achieve  stability  in  my 
country. We reiterate our thanks and appreciation to the 
Secretary-General  for  all  of  the  efforts  exerted  in  the 
various fields covered in the report. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call on the observer of the Observer State of the Holy 
See. 
Archbishop  Chullikatt  (Holy  See):  The  past 

year has seen an increase in the number of challenges, 
both  at  the  United  Nations  and  within  the  greater 
global  community,  but  my  delegation  remains  hopeful 
that  this  Organization  will  respond  to  its  Charter 
responsibilities  and  commit  itself  to  taking  decisive 
action in fulfilling its purposes as spelled out in Article 1. 

financial  and 
economic crisis is beginning to show signs of recovery, 
many of the poorest within society still remain beyond 
the  reach  of  its  benefits,  and  an  additional  64  million 
people will fall into extreme poverty by the end of the 
year.  This  challenge  calls  for  a  new  focus  by  the 
international  community  and  a  return  to  authentic 
humanitarian  programmes  and  financial  systems  that 
place  people  at  the  centre  rather  than  forcing  them  to 
serve the programmes and systems. 

The  financial  crisis  has  proved  to  be  a  growing 
challenge to the efforts of developed countries to fund 
their official development assistance commitments and 
at  the  same  time  provide  programmes  to  rebuild  and 
international 
Today,  as 
the 
8 

10-56786 


renew  their  own  financial  and  labour  markets.  While 
that  challenge  is  real,  it  is  not  insurmountable,  if 
nations  would  move  resources  from  programmes 
designed  to  destroy  to  those  that  foster  life  and 
development. This task is in fact within the capacity of 
the Members of this noble Organization. 

In 2007, $1.3 trillion was spent globally on arms 
and  other  military  expenditures,  and 
that  figure 
increased  in  2009  during  a  global  economic  crisis  to 
over $1.5 trillion. The limitless ability to find funds for 
military programmes highlights yet  again the need  for 
individuals  and  governmental  leaders  to  refocus  their 
priorities and financial commitments.  

Those expenditures are even more troubling when 
we consider the facts that over 1.4 billion people in the 
world live on less than $1.25 per day, even though this 
could  be  remedied;  that  universal  primary  education 
remains  unattained,  even  though  that  too  could  be 
addressed; and that access to clean drinking water and 
sanitation  continues  to  go  unmet,  even  though  the 
capacity to provide remains within our grasp. Midway 
to the ambitious goal of 2015, as we discuss the need 
to  find  adequate  funding  sources  for  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  we  must  acknowledge 
that 
from  military 
transferring 
programmes 
long-term 
sustainable development has become an urgent matter. 
Such  spending  demonstrates  that  development,  peace 
and security are inherently interlinked.  

in 
While  United  Nations  efforts 
preventive  diplomacy  and  respond  to  crises  have 
provided  some  welcomed  successes,  those  successes 
will  prove  to  be  only  temporary  if  governmental 
leaders and the United Nations bodies are unwilling to 
find  ways  to  fulfil  their  responsibility  to  protect  and 
give all nations an effective voice directed towards the 
betterment of all members of the human family.  

The  increasingly  interconnected  nature  of  the 
international  community  requires  an 
international 
political  authority 
focusing 
international  cooperation  and  responding  to  economic 
crisis  in  such  a  way  as  to  avoid  deterioration  of  the 
present  crisis  and  the  greater  imbalances  that  could 
result.  It  must  also  seek  to  bring  about  integral  and 
timely  disarmament, 
security  and  peace, 
guarantee  protection  of  the  environment  and  regulate 
migration.  Such  a  body  must  be  regulated  by  the 
principles  of  just  laws,  subsidiarity,  solidarity  and 
resources 
that  promote 
financial 
to 
to  engage 
those 
that 
is  capable  of 
food 
A/65/PV.26
pursuit  of  the  common  good,  while  at  the  same  time 
making  a  commitment  to  secure  authentic  integral 
human development inspired by the values of charity in 
truth  —  a  truth  that  respects  every  member  of  the 
human family. 

Promoting human and economic development and 
greater  cooperation  between  States  also  requires  a 
commitment  to  fundamental  and  authentic  human 
rights that respect the true nature of the human person. 
Chief  among  those  rights  is  the  fundamental  right  to 
life.  Population  measures  and  health  services  that  fail 
to recognize the right to life and the right to establish 
and  raise  a  family  undermine  the  inherent  dignity  of 
the human person. Concepts of reproductive health and 
sexual  rights  that  incorporate  access  to  abortion  or 
other  forms  of  life-destroying  services  or  research 
foster the flawed logic of a culture of death instead of 
one  that  respects  and  embraces  life  and  a  better  more 
sustainable future of humankind. 

In  addition,  human  rights  must  recognize  the 
inherent  social  and  spiritual  nature  of  the  human 
person and respect the rights of individuals to practise 
freely their faith. Religious freedom encompasses more 
than  the  mere  toleration  of  religion  and  religious 
beliefs  but  also  requires  the  freedom  to  worship  and 
express  one’s  faith  publicly  within  society.  In  that 
light, religious intolerance and violence in the name of 
religion or in the name of God must be condemned. It 
is  therefore  important  that  concepts  such  as  the 
defamation of religion be  re-examined so as to ensure 
that  religious  intolerance  and  incitement  to  violence 
are  rightly  condemned  without  hindering  the  right  to 
genuine religious freedom, which is beneficial to all. 

The need to extend universally humanity’s ability 
to care for one another is also an important means for 
allowing  global  neighbours  to  become  worldwide 
brothers and sisters. In that regard, my delegation calls 
for universal solidarity in favour of those most in need. 
Today,  international  emergencies  around  the  world 
receive  financial  and  technical  assistance  from  all 
corners of the globe. As the response to the earthquake 
in  Haiti  and  the  floods  in  Pakistan  demonstrates,  the 
international  community,  when  it  has  good  intentions 
and commits itself, can make the world a smaller place, 
capable of caring for people in any corner of the globe. 

the  United 
Nations  system  and  national  political  leaders  play  an 
important role in ensuring that aid reaches those most 
those  responses, 
In  coordinating 
10-56786 

9 
to 
in 
situations. 
emergency 
The  United  Nations  has  made 
A/65/PV.26 

in  need 
the  most  effective  manner  possible. 
However,  that  coordination  must  also  recognize  the 
particular  role  of  local  and  faith-based  providers  in 
responding 
Those 
organizations’  long-term  commitment  to  and  activity 
within  affected  communities  provide  understanding  of 
local  needs  and  foster  respect  for  local  customs  and 
traditions. 

important 
contributions  to  fostering  development  and  greater 
peace  and  security.  However,  the  Organization  must 
continue  to  revitalize  its  work,  so  as  to  be  more 
capable  of  responding  to  the  future  needs  of  the 
international  community  in  a  manner  consistent  with 
the purposes as set out in the Charter. During the past 
year the United Nations system responded to a number 
of difficult humanitarian emergencies, the International 
Criminal  Court  nearly  finalized  an  amendment  on  the 
crime  of  aggression,  progress  was  made  on  nuclear 
disarmament, and negotiations on an arms trade treaty 
began.  However,  those  welcome  developments  were 
accompanied  by  the  lack  of  a  final  outcome  from  the 
Copenhagen  Conference  on  Climate  Change, 
the 
lagging  global  financial  recovery,  continuing  nuclear 
proliferation 
in  defiance  of  national  and  global 
security,  and  ongoing violence in many  corners of the 
world.  The  Holy  See  reiterates  its  commitment  to  the 
principles and ideals set down at the foundation of the 
United Nations and will continue to work to ensure that 
the  Organization  will  increasingly  serve  as  a  sign  of 
unity  between  States  and  an  instrument  of  service  to 
the entire human family. 

have heard the last speaker in the debate on this item. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 


May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  takes 
note of the report of the Secretary-General on the work 
of the Organization contained in document A/65/1? 
It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this  stage  of  its  agenda 
item 108. 




Agenda item 3 (continued) 
Credentials of representatives to the sixty-fifth 
session of the General Assembly 
  (a)  Appointment of the members of the Credentials 
Committee 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Rule 

28 of the rules of procedure provides that the General 
Assembly  at  the  beginning  of  each  session  shall 
appoint, on the proposal of the President, a Credentials 
Committee consisting of nine members. 

Accordingly, it is proposed that, for the sixty-fifth 
session,  the  Credentials  Committee  should  consist  of 
the  following  Member  States:  the  Bahamas,  China, 
Finland,  Gabon,  Guatemala,  Kenya, 
the  Russian 
Federation,  Singapore  and 
the  United  States  of 
America. 

May  I  take  it  that  these  States  that  I  have  just 
mentioned  are  hereby  appointed  members  of  the 
Credentials Committee? 
It was so decided. 


  The meeting rose at 4.15 p.m. 
10 

10-56786 
