
A/65/PV.52
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

52nd plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 23 November 2010, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 








  In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Kleib 
(Indonesia), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m. 

Agenda items 13 and 115 (continued) and 120 
Integrated and coordinated implementation of and 
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United 
Nations conferences and summits in the economic, 
social and related fields 

Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit 

  Notes by the Secretary-General (A/65/362, 
A/65/394 and A/65/394/Add.1) 
  Draft resolution A/65/L.12 






Strengthening of the United Nations system 

  Note by the Secretary-General (A/65/71 and 
A/65/71/Add.1) 
The Acting President: In connection with agenda 

items  13  and  115,  members  will  recall  that  the 
Assembly  adopted  resolution  65/7  at  its  41st  plenary 
meeting on 29 October. 

of Korea to introduce draft resolution A/65/L.12. 
Mr. Park In-Kook (Republic of Korea): We have 

held a great number of United Nations conferences and 
summits in the past two decades that have had a huge 
impact  on  our  thinking,  priorities  and  especially  our 
actions. Clearly, all of the discussions and outcomes of 
I  now  call  on  the  representative  of  the  Republic 
the 
our 
from 
in  order 
However, 
perspective, 
the  next  five  years 
these  major  conferences  and  summits  have  been 
channelled  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  which  have  become 
international 
community’s most comprehensive and powerful action 
plan.  Just  two  months  ago,  in  this  same  venue,  world 
leaders reaffirmed their commitment to the MDGs and 
set out a concrete action plan for achieving those Goals 
by  2015.  One  of  the  tangible  achievements  of  the 
summit  was  undoubtedly  to  raise  over  $40  billion  in 
resources  over 
to 
strengthen child and maternal health. 

another 
important  milestone  that  our  leaders  set  up  was  to 
deliver a clear message to the global community about 
the  type  of  economic  growth  that  will  lead  to  poverty 
eradication and the achievement of the MDGs. We note 
that  growth  is  an  important  driving  force  for  the 
achievement of the MDGs and poverty eradication, but 
not  every  kind  of  growth  has  been  as  effective  as  we 
expected. 

There  are  key  policies  or  mechanisms  that  can 
translate  growth  into  progress  on  the  MDGs.  First,  in 
order to contribute to poverty eradication and progress 
on  the  MDGs,  needless  to  say,  growth  should  be 
sustained without any halt or reversal. 

Secondly,  if  growth  does  not  guarantee  the 
participation  of  the  broadest  possible  spectrum  of 
people and excludes marginalized people or regions, it 
cannot  properly  expedite  poverty  reduction  and  may 
weaken national unity. Therefore, growth should be as 
inclusive as possible. 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-64830 (E) 
*1064830* 


A/65/PV.52 


Thirdly,  growth  cannot  be  a  central  strategy  for 
fighting  poverty  if  it  does  not  evenly  distribute  the 
opportunities  and  gains  it  offers.  As  a  recent  survey 
shows,  in  circumstances  where  the  poverty  rate  and 
growth  rate  are  the  same,  an  inequitable  society  may 
take six times longer to eradicate poverty than a more 
equitable  society  might.  That  is  why  world  leaders 
have  declared  that  sustained,  inclusive  and  equitable 
economic growth is the key to poverty eradication and 
the achievement of the MDGs. They have sent a clear 
message that economic growth should enable everyone, 
in particular the poor, to participate in and benefit from 
economic  opportunities  leading  to  job  creation  and 
income  opportunities,  complemented  by  effective 
social policies. 
Now it is our turn to carry this message forward. 

In  this  regard,  I  have  the  honour  and  privilege  to 
introduce  for  adoption  today  the  draft  resolution 
contained  in  document A/65/L.12,  entitled  “Sustained, 
inclusive  and  equitable  economic  growth  for  poverty 
eradication  and  achievement  of 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals”  on  behalf  of  the  70  sponsors 
listed  in  the  document,  including  the  Government  of 
the Republic of Korea. 

At this time, I would also like to name the other 
countries that have since  signed on  as sponsors of the 
draft  resolution  but  are  not  listed  in  the  text  itself. 
Those  countries  are  Andorra,  Armenia,  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina, Brazil, Croatia, the Dominican Republic, 
El  Salvador,  Guatemala, 
Israel,  Liechtenstein, 
Madagascar,  Mexico,  Qatar,  the  Russian  Federation, 
Serbia, South Africa, Togo and Uzbekistan. 

their 
thank  all  sponsoring  countries 
unwavering  support  and  cooperation.  In  particular,  I 
would  like  to  express  special  appreciation  to  the 
12 countries  — Brunei Darussalam, Cambodia, China, 
the  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Indonesia,  Japan, 
Republic,  Malaysia,  Myanmar, 
the  Philippines, 
Singapore,  Thailand  and  Viet  Nam  —  that  together 
initiated  the  draft  resolution  from  scratch  and  closely 
cooperated as needed. 

All  sponsors  share  the  view  that  we  need  to 
strengthen  discussion  on  the  economic  dimension  of 
development 
to  complement  and  create 
synergy with the discussion of the human dimension of 
development. Also, we concur that, in order to translate 
into  action  our  leaders’  declaration  on  the  importance 
of  sustained,  inclusive,  equitable  growth,  we  urgently 
in  order 
I 
for 
institutions  and  policies  favourable 
need  to  formulate  policy  guidelines  that  aim  to 
encourage 
to 
sustained  growth,  maximize  the  impact  of  growth  on 
health,  education  and  gender  equality,  and  devise 
specific policies that will necessarily allow the poor to 
gain their fair share. 

The draft resolution that we are introducing today 
is a follow-up to the High-level Plenary Meeting of the 
General Assembly on the MDGs and also a procedural 
resolution  that  asks  for  the  facilitation  of  an  active 
discussion  on  sustained, 
inclusive  and  equitable 
economic growth. In order to do that, the draft seeks to 
facilitate  this  discussion  by  inviting  Member  States  to 
share  best  practices  and  lessons  learned,  inviting 
regional  commissions  to  facilitate  a  discussion  of  this 
issue  in  each  region,  requesting  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  to  hold  a  panel  discussion  during  the 
2011  substantive  session  and,  finally,  requesting  the 
Secretary-General  to  include  policy  recommendations 
on  this  issue  in  his  annual  report  on  the  MDGs  by 
2015.  Based  on  the  expected  discussion,  we  will  be 
able  to  extract  important  and  detailed  policy  elements 
for  the  successful  achievement  of  sustained,  inclusive 
and equitable economic growth. 

Before closing, I would like once again to express 
my  deep,  sincere  gratitude  to  the  many  sponsors  and 
supporters of the draft resolution. I now call upon the 
General Assembly to give its unequivocal support to its 
adoption. 
Mr.  Le  Luong  Minh  (Viet  Nam):  I  have  the 

honour  to  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the 
13 initial  sponsors  of  draft  resolution  A/65/L.12  on 
sustained, inclusive and equitable economic growth for 
the  eradication  of  poverty  and  the  achievement  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  namely, 
Brunei  Darussalam,  Cambodia,  China, 
Indonesia, 
Japan, 
the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic, 
Malaysia,  Myanmar,  the  Philippines,  the  Republic  of 
Korea, Singapore, Thailand and Viet Nam. 

We attach great importance to the achievement of 
the  MDGs  while  promoting  regional  integration  and 
narrowing 
the  development  gap.  We  provided 
constructive  inputs  based  on  regional  experiences  to 
the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  of 
the  General 
Assembly with a view to accelerating progress towards 
the  MDGs,  especially  through  strengthened  global 
partnership. 
2 

10-64830 
On 
sharing 
for 
experiences 
At 
the  same 
partnership, 
the  sidelines  of 



the  High-level  Plenary 
Meeting, we — the 13 countries from South-East Asia 
and  East  Asia  —  hosted  a  ministerial-level  panel 
discussion on 21 September on “Achieving the MDGs 
through 
and 
challenges 
in  Asia”,  chaired  by  His  Excellency 
Mr. Kasit Piromya, the Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
Thailand,  and  moderated  by  Ms.  Nila  Moeloek,  the 
Indonesian  President’s  Special  Envoy 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  Among  measures 
identified in the resulting way forward, we agreed that 
“emphasis  should  be  placed  on  reducing  poverty 
through sustained economic growth”. 

While  recognizing  the  diversities  within  and 
among  countries,  including  on  how  to  achieve  the 
MDGs, we are united in the view that economic growth 
should  be  given  higher  priority  in  the  discussions  on 
the  MDGs.  Despite  slow  and  fragile  global  recovery 
from  the  worst  international  financial  crisis,  the  East 
Asian  economies  were  among  the  first  to  rebound 
soundly  and  became  some  of  the  key  drivers  of  the 
global economic recovery. 

time,  we  are  placing  greater 
emphasis on the kind of growth that enables everyone 
to  benefit  equally  from  economic  development,  with 
job  creation  and  social  protection  measures  aiming  at 
protecting  and  empowering  people  and  communities, 
the  most  vulnerable  groups  in  particular.  This  is  a 
lesson learned from the Asian monetary and economic 
crisis that our region experienced in the late 1990s. 

the 
seventeenth  Summit  of 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) held 
in  Hanoi,  Viet  Nam,  on  28  October  2010  adopted  the 
Master  Plan  on  ASEAN  Connectivity,  which 
emphasizes  that  policies  for  sustained  strong  growth 
will have to be complemented by targeted interventions 
and  will 
in  basic 
infrastructure, health care and education. Furthermore, 
the  thirteenth  ASEAN+3  Summit  held  in  Hanoi, 
Viet Nam,  on  29  October  2010 
the 
importance 
economic 
competitiveness and equitable economic development. 

We  are  pleased  that  the  notion  of  “sustained, 
inclusive  and  equitable  economic  growth”  was 
included  in  the  Outcome  Document  of  the  United 
Nations  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on  the  MDGs 
(resolution  65/1),  and  further  encouraged  by  the 
support given to draft resolution A/65/L.12 to promote 
require 
increased 
investment 
Recently, 
the 
reaffirmed 
of 
promoting 
regional 
A/65/PV.52
the  sharing  of  national  experiences  and  best  practices 
on this subject, taking into account the fact that there is 
no one-size-fits-all solution. 

We  are  pleased  to  announce  that  the  draft 
resolution  is  currently  co-sponsored  by  75  countries. 
We wish to thank all the sponsors for their constructive 
engagement and contributions. We encourage all other 
Member States to consider joining the ownership of the 
draft  resolution.  By  initiating  the  draft  resolution,  we 
hope  that  useful  policy  guidelines  will  be  shared,  and 
we  look  forward  to  the  contributions  of  the  regional 
commissions  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
panel  discussion.  We  remain  fully  committed 
to 
supporting  this  process  with  a  view  to  contributing  to 
poverty eradication and the achievement of the MDGs 
within the established time frame. 
Mr.  Al-Shami  (Yemen):  The  Group  of  77  and 

China  is  pleased  to  participate  in  this  morning’s  joint 
debate  under  the  agenda  item  “Follow-up  to  the 
outcome of the Millennium Summit”. 

The Group of 77 and China places a high priority 
on global public health and the achievement of health-
related  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  We 
welcome  the  significant  achievements  made  in  some 
areas, but also note that much more needs to be done to 
achieve the health-related Goals, as was evident at the 
High-level  Plenary  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly 
held in September. 

Factors such as poverty, coupled with the effects 
of the global food, financial and economic crises, have 
severely  hampered  the  efforts  of  developing  countries 
in  implementing  the  internationally  agreed  development 
goals  and  commitments,  including  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

Health and poverty are interlinked and are central 
to  sustainable  development,  as  recognized  in  the 
Ministerial  Declaration  of 
the  2009  High-level 
Segment  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council.  The 
emergence  of  non-communicable  diseases, 
the 
prevalence  of  which  is  increasing  faster  in  poor 
countries, highlights the connection between health and 
poverty  and 
impact  on  social  and  economic 
development.  Thus,  the  Group  of  77  and  China  will 
focus  its  statement  on  the  issue  of  non-communicable 
diseases, one of the main challenges to development in 
the twenty-first century. 
its 
10-64830 

3 

faced  by  developing  countries 
the  World  Health  Assembly  on 
A/65/PV.52 


The Group of 77 and China thank the Secretary-
General  for  the  transmission  of  the  report  of  the 
Director-General  of  the  World  Health  Organization 
(WHO)  on  the  global  status  of  non-communicable 
diseases,  with  a  particular  focus  on  the  development 
challenges 
(see 
A/65/362). 
We note all the relevant resolutions and decisions 

adopted  by 
the 
prevention and control of non-communicable diseases. 
The  Group  of  77  and  China  support  the  call  for 
continued  implementation  of  the  2008-2013  Action 
Plan  for  the  Global  Strategy  for  the  Prevention  and 
Control  of  Non-communicable  Diseases,  the  WHO 
Framework  Convention  on  Tobacco  Control  and  the 
Global Strategy on Diet, Physical Activity and Health. 
We  also  recognize  the  role  of  the  United  Nations 
system,  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions,  the  private 
sector  and  civil  society  in  the  promotion  of  public 
health at all levels. 

The  General Assembly’s  unanimous  adoption  on 
13  May  of  resolution  64/265,  on  the  prevention  and 
control  of  non-communicable  diseases,  which  was 
submitted  under  agenda  item  114,  “Follow-up  to  the 
outcome  of 
clearly 
underscored 
for  concerted  action  and 
coordinated responses to this issue. 

As  the  report  of  the  Director-General  of  WHO 
details, non-communicable diseases affect countries in 
every  region  of  the  world,  from  the  Americas  to  the 
Eastern  Mediterranean,  Europe,  South-East  Asia  and 
the Western Pacific. While we take note of the various 
national  and  regional  initiatives  undertaken  on  the 
prevention and control of non-communicable diseases, 
the  statistics  are  daunting  and  paint  a  clear  picture  of 
the  great  human  suffering  and  the  financial  toll  these 
diseases are exacting on our populations, particularly if 
seen from a gender perspective. This fact was noted by 
the Secretary-General in his report entitled “Review of 
the  implementation  of  the  Beijing  Declaration  and 
Platform  for Action,  the  outcomes  of  the  twenty-third 
special  session  of  the  General  Assembly  and  its 
contribution  to  shaping  a  gender  perspective  towards 
the  full  realization  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals” (E/CN.6/2010/2). 

for  an 
estimated  35  million  deaths  every  year,  including  the 
premature  deaths  of  an  estimated  8  million  persons 
Non-communicable  diseases  account 
the  Millennium  Summit”, 
the  need 
systems 
and 
Given 
the 
increased 
the  African 
the  socio-economic 
region  alone,  deaths 
before  the  age  of  60.  Over  90  per  cent  of  these 
premature  deaths  occur  in  developing  countries,  in 
particular  among  the  poorest  and  most  disadvantaged 
populations. 

The  World  Health  Organization  predicts  that,  by 
2015,  non-communicable  diseases  will  increase  by  90 
per  cent  and  will  contribute  significantly  to,  among 
others, 
loss  of  productivity,  slow 
economic  growth,  rapid  rise  in  health-care  costs, 
overwhelmed  national  health 
an 
unprecedented level of poverty if we, the international 
community,  do  not  take  immediate  and  concerted 
action  at  the  national,  regional  and  global  levels  to 
address  the  development  challenges  posed  by  these 
factors. 

In 
from 
non-communicable  diseases  are  predicted  to  increase 
by more than 20 per cent by 2015 while, in South-East 
Asia  and 
the  Western  Pacific,  non-communicable 
diseases  account  for  an  estimated  54  per  cent  of  the 
14.7  million  annual  deaths  and  over  75  per  cent  of 
deaths, respectively. 
impact  of  non-

communicable  diseases  and  its  link  to  health  and 
poverty, the Group of 77 and China cannot underscore 
enough  the  importance  of  strengthening  international 
cooperation  in  the  area  of  public  health. We  also  urge 
developed  countries, 
their 
commitments, to meet the agreed target of 0.7 per cent 
of  gross  national  product  for  official  development 
assistance to enable developing countries to meet their 
internationally agreed development goals. 

In  the  case  of  global  public  health,  there  is  an 
urgent  need  for  increased  and  sustained  levels  of 
assistance to, among other things, build the capacity of 
public health systems; to improve access to affordable, 
safe,  effective  and  high-quality  medicines;  to  train, 
recruit  and  retain  skilled  public  health  personnel;  and 
to  develop  necessary  infrastructure  and  the  transfer  of 
technology  if  we  are  to  tackle  the  growing  threat  of 
non-communicable diseases. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  supports  the  call,  in 
the report of the WHO Director-General before us, for 
global  development 
the 
prevention  and  control  of  non-communicable  diseases 
as  one  of  the  priorities  to  be  included  as  an  integral 
part  of  the  global  development  agenda,  including 
through poverty reduction initiatives. 
in  accordance  with 
to  consider 
initiatives 
4 

10-64830 
the 
and 
diseases 
non-communicable 
Mr.  De  Bassompierre  (Belgium):  I  have  the 



In  conclusion,  the  Group  of  77  and  China  was 
pleased to join consensus on resolution 64/265 and its 
call for a high-level meeting of the General Assembly, 
with 
the  participation  of  heads  of  State  and 
Government,  to  be  convened  in  September  2011  to 
address 
their 
socio-economic  impact.  We  welcome  the  appointment 
of  the  Permanent  Representatives  of  Jamaica  and 
Luxembourg  as  co-facilitators  of 
informal 
consultations  under  way  on  the  scope,  modalities, 
format  and  organization  of  the  high-level  meeting  of 
the  General  Assembly  to  be  convened  in  September 
2011. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  is  participating 
actively in the consultations and, given the enormity of 
the crisis facing us, looks forward to the adoption of a 
resolution that reflects the views of all Member States, 
and  which  will  result  in  a  satisfactory,  targeted  and 
action-oriented outcome of the process. 

honour to speak on behalf of the European Union. 

Due  to  the  nature  of  the  joint  debate  today,  my 
remarks  will  bear  on  two  different  points,  the  first 
being  on  the  draft  resolution  on  growth  (A/65/L.12) 
and the second on non-communicable diseases. 

The  candidate  countries  Turkey,  Croatia  and  the 
former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia; the countries 
of  the  Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and 
potential  candidates Albania,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina 
and  Montenegro;  as  well  as  Ukraine,  the  Republic  of 
Moldova, Armenia  and  Georgia  align  themselves  with 
this declaration. 

The European Union is pleased to co-sponsor the 
General  Assembly  resolution  on  sustained,  inclusive 
and  equitable  economic  growth  for  poverty  reduction 
and  achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs). We would like to take this opportunity 
to thank the Republic of Korea and other sponsors for 
taking the initiative of formulating this draft resolution. 

Growth plays a particularly important role in our 
common  endeavour  to  eradicate  poverty,  achieve  the 
MDGs 
development. 
Economic  growth,  provided  it  is  socially  inclusive, 
produces  a  much  greater  effect  in  terms  of  poverty 
reduction than direct transfer of resources. It can have 
a  multiplier  effect  through  employment  creation  and 
social protection. As for development aid, it should act 
sustainable 
promote 
and 
A/65/PV.52
in 
the 
link  established 
the  Director-General  of 
increasingly  as  a  catalyst,  supporting  the  efforts  of 
developing  countries  to  generate  growth.  Adequate 
national policies that create an environment conducive 
to growth play an important role in this respect. 

The sustainability of growth is also a major factor 
that we have to take into consideration; hence the vital 
importance  of 
the  MDG 
outcome  document  (resolution  65/1)  between,  on  the 
one  hand,  sustained,  inclusive  and  equitable  growth, 
and  on  the  other,  sustainable  development  in  its  three 
economic, social and environmental components. 

The policy message that the General Assembly is 
sending  with  this  draft  resolution  is  an  important  one. 
It  shows  the  capacity  of  the  United  Nations  to  tackle 
the  main  issues  and  challenges  of  our  time.  The 
European  Union  looks  forward  to  continuing  our 
discussions  on  sustained, 
inclusive  and  equitable 
growth. 
(spoke in French) 

I  would  now  like  to  discuss  the  note  by  the 
Secretary-General  (A/65/362),  transmitting  the  report 
of 
the  World  Health 
Organization  (WHO)  on  the  global  status  of  non-
communicable  diseases.  The  candidate  countries 
Turkey,  Croatia  and  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia;  the  countries  of  the  Stabilization  and 
Association  Process  and  potential  candidates  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina  and  Montenegro;  as  well  as  the 
Republic  of  Moldova  and  Armenia  align  themselves 
with this declaration. 

a 
considerable  and  worsening  burden  on  world  health, 
including  in  low-  and  medium-income  countries.  This 
has  been  made  unambiguously  clear  in  the  recent 
report  of  WHO  transmitted  by  the  Secretary-General. 
The  European  Union  itself  has  a  high  incidence  of 
non-communicable  diseases  —  such  as  cancer, 
diabetes, cardiovascular disease and obesity — that can 
be attributed to the convergence of a number of factors, 
including  smoking,  alcohol  abuse,  unhealthy  diets, 
pollution and physical inactivity. We are convinced that 
prevention  is  vital  to  easing  the  growing  burden  of 
non-communicable  diseases,  and  involves  strategies 
and  mechanisms  oriented  towards  the  critical  risk 
factors  for 
lifestyle  and 
hygiene, as well as general environmental, commercial, 
economic and social factors. 
these  diseases,  such  as 
Non-communicable 
represent 
diseases 
10-64830 

5 
Next 
year, 
the 
are 
ready 
attention  on 
high-level  meeting 
the  recent  High-level  Meeting  on 
A/65/PV.52 


Multisectoral  integrated  approaches  are  essential 
if we wish to tackle these illnesses successfully, given 
that  many  of  them  are  issues  that  elude  health-care 
systems. We also believe that national health strategies 
and  strengthened  health  systems  must 
take  non-
communicable  diseases  into  account  within  a  broader 
framework of efforts to improve health and conditions 
generally. In this regard, we welcome the commitment 
made  at 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  to  improving  the 
efficiency  of  health-care  systems  and  giving  greater 
support to interventions and initiatives that are clearly 
effective  in  dealing  with  increased  health  challenges, 
including  the  growing  impact  of  non-communicable 
diseases. 
on 

non-communicable  diseases  will  give  us  an  excellent 
opportunity to debate these subjects and to focus more 
challenge  of 
world  public 
the 
non-communicable  diseases.  We 
to 
participate  actively  and  constructively  in  both  the 
meeting and its preparation. 
Ms.  Millard-White  (Trinidad  and  Tobago):  The 

Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM)  is  honoured  to 
take  part  in  this  joint  debate  under  agenda  item  115, 
“Follow-up 
the  Millennium 
Summit”, and aligns itself with the statement made by 
the representative of Yemen on behalf of the Group of 
77 and China. 

is  of 
fundamental  importance  to  our  subregion.  CARICOM 
continues  to  strive  at  the  national,  regional  and 
international levels to ensure the health and well-being 
of our citizens. To this end, earlier this year CARICOM 
heads  of  Government  approved  the  establishment  of 
the  Caribbean  Regional  Health  Agency  (CARPHA), 
which  will  replace  and  build  on 
the  work  of 
CARICOM’s  existing  five  regional  health  institutions. 
CARPHA  will  facilitate  a  coordinated  approach  to 
regional health issues and prevent duplication of effort 
and resources. 
that  presents 

development 
significant 
that 
of 
challenges 
non-communicable 
particular 
cardiovascular  diseases,  cancer,  diabetes  and  chronic 
respiratory  diseases.  In  the  Caribbean,  the  prevalence 
and  mortality  rates  of  non-communicable  diseases  are 
issue,  however, 
and 
issue  of  global  public  health 
the  outcome  of 
social, 
for 
One  health 
economic 
our 
subregion 
is 
diseases, 
in 
to 
The 

among  the  highest  in  the  world,  having  accounted  for 
62 per cent of all deaths in the region in 2004, 40 per 
cent  of  which  could  have  been  prevented.  Even  more 
alarming  is  that  deaths  from  these  diseases  in  the 
Caribbean  are  expected  to  increase  to  68  per  cent  in 
2015 if urgent action to address them is not taken. 

Non-communicable  diseases  disproportionately 
affect the poorest in our societies, due to their limited 
ability  to  lead  healthy  lifestyles  and  access  affordable 
health  care.  There  is  also  sufficient  evidence  to  show 
that  non-communicable  diseases  further  contribute  to 
poverty, due to loss of household income in many cases 
and  the  overwhelming  cost  of  health  care  associated 
with the treatment of such diseases. 

The  Caribbean,  however,  is  not  alone  in  facing 
these  challenges.  CARICOM  welcomes  the  report  of 
the Director-General of the World Health Organization 
(WHO),  transmitted  by  the  Secretary-General’s  note 
dated  13  September  (A/65/362).  The  report  indicates 
that  non-communicable  diseases  account  for  60  per 
cent of all deaths worldwide, more than 80 per cent of 
which occur in developing countries, particularly low- 
and  middle-income  countries.  WHO  also  estimates 
that, globally, deaths from non-communicable diseases 
are expected to increase by 17 per cent over the next 10 
years, the greatest increase being expected in Africa. 

The  fact  that  a  large  percentage  of  all  deaths 
related  to  non-communicable  diseases  occur  at  the 
highest rates in low- and middle-income countries, and 
that  they  are  all  preventable,  establishes  the  strong 
connection  between  addressing  these  challenges  and 
the 
Further, 
non-communicable diseases are emerging worldwide as 
a  serious  macroeconomic  and  development  challenge 
due  to  loss  of  productivity,  rapidly  rising  health-care 
costs  and  links  to  poverty,  as  confirmed  in  the  WHO 
Director-General’s report. 
No single institution, organization or country has 

sufficient  resources  and  capacity 
this 
growing epidemic, which requires concerted global and 
intersectoral responses. Consequently, there is a critical 
need 
and 
international  collaboration 
inter  alia,  promote 
partnerships  for  the  prevention  and  control  of  these 
diseases;  monitor  them  and  their  determinants  at  all 
levels;  and  strengthen  health  care  for  persons  with 
non-communicable  diseases  by  strengthening  health-
care  systems.  This  is  in  addition  to  influencing  the 
increased  political 
to, 
development 
commitment 
to  reverse 
agenda. 
global 
for 
6 

10-64830 
to  express 
to  be  held 
the  role  of 
to  recognize 
this  process  and 


public policies of non-health sectors and implementing 
effective  mechanisms  for  intersectoral  action  in  such 
areas  as  agriculture,  food  production,  education, 
finance, trade and sport. 

It  is  for  these  reasons  that  CARICOM  members 
brought  the  issue  to  the  attention  of  the  General 
Assembly  in  2009.  We  are  further  pleased  to  have 
participated in the adoption of resolution 64/265 on the 
prevention  and  control  of  non-communicable  diseases 
on 13 May. The resolution called for the convening of 
a  high-level  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on 
non-communicable  diseases,  with  the  participation  of 
heads  of  State  and  Government, 
in 
September 2011. 
CARICOM  would  like  to  avail  itself  of  this 

the  WHO 
opportunity 
throughout 
its  deep 
appreciation  for  the  continuous  support  and  technical 
assistance  provided  to  Member  States  thus  far,  in 
particular  by  the  Organization’s  Pan American  Health 
Organization office located here in New York. 

In  addition,  we  look  forward  to  the  positive  and 
successful  outcomes  of  the  regional  meetings  being 
convened  on  the  issue  of  non-communicable  diseases 
in  preparation  for  the  September  2011  high-level 
meeting, and anticipate the release of the WHO report, 
which  will  provide  further  valuable  information  to 
guide the process leading up to the high-level meeting 
in  September  2011.  CARICOM  also  supports  the 
development of indicators to monitor the way in which 
Member  States  address  this  issue,  the  importance  of 
which has been underscored by WHO. 

CARICOM  will  continue  to  be  fully  engaged  in 
negotiations  currently  taking  place  under  the  able 
leadership  of 
the  Permanent  Representatives  of 
Jamaica  and  Luxembourg  to  determine  the  scope, 
modalities,  format  and  organization  of  the  high-level 
meeting. 
In conclusion, as agreed at the High-level Plenary 

Meeting  on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  in 
September  2009,  we  reiterate  our  commitment  to 
undertaking  concerted  action  and  a  coordinated 
response  at  the  national,  regional  and  global  levels  in 
order to adequately address the development and other 
challenges  caused  by  non-communicable  diseases  as 
we work towards a successful high-level meeting of the 
General Assembly in 2011. 
A/65/PV.52
the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on 
Mr.  Benítez  Versón  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Despite  attempts  to  gloss  over  current  circumstances, 
the  global  situation,  especially  since  the  devastating 
effects  of  the  world  economic  and  financial  crisis, 
continues to be extremely complex. No one is surprised 
that  the  measures  adopted  to  boost  growth  and  world 
economic  recovery  have  not  always  responded  to  the 
needs  of  the  poor  and  the  most  vulnerable.  Quite  the 
opposite  is  true;  despite  the  promises  made,  many 
developed  countries  have  resorted  to  protectionism  as 
part of their policies created in response to the crisis, to 
the detriment of underdeveloped economies. 

The billions of dollars in fiscal stimulus packages 
applied  hurriedly  to  rescue  banks  and  other  private 
companies  responsible  for  the  crisis  contrast  with  the 
ever-decreasing  amount  of  resources  for  development, 
including  official  development  assistance. The  current 
international  economic  order,  plunged  into  financial 
and fiscal chaos caused by years of neoliberal policies, 
is  deeply  unfair  and  unsustainable  and  should  be 
replaced. 

the 
At 
Millennium  Development  Goals  that  took  place  in 
September, 
the 
majority of States will not be able to meet these modest 
objectives.  The  requests  for  new  and  additional 
financial  resources  to  try  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development Goals in the scant time remaining before 
2015 were ignored by rich countries. They did not even 
allow a single mention of this situation in the outcome 
document of the High-level Meeting (resolution 65/1). 

the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  go  unmet,  but  other 
internationally  agreed  development  goals  will  also 
elude  us.  We  need  radical  changes  in  the  patterns  of 
production and consumption of Northern societies and 
the  establishment  of  a  new  international  economic 
order on the basis of new development paradigms. That 
is the only way to make real progress towards fulfilling 
the  targets  and  goals  to  which  we  have  committed.  In 
this  context,  the  establishment  of  a  new  international 
financial  architecture  should  be  a  priority  of  United 
Nations deliberations. 

The  aforementioned  scenario  highlights  the  need 
to strengthen the central role of the United Nations in 
international  affairs.  So-called  global  governance 
cannot marginalize the most democratic mechanisms of 
the  Organization,  nor  should  certain  groups  of 
it  was  clearly  demonstrated 
this  path,  not  only  will 
If  we  follow 
that 
10-64830 

7 

in 
to 
the 
the  reform  of 
longer  postpone 
A/65/PV.52 

countries  proclaim  themselves  the  decision-making 
nucleus  for  the  majority.  The  General  Assembly,  the 
body  in  which  we  all  participate  in  equal  conditions 
and where there is no veto, should be strengthened. We 
also  advocate  greater  coherence  in  the  actions  of  all 
bodies  of  the  United  Nations  system,  in  strict  respect 
for mandates and the principle of national leadership in 
the field of development assistance. 
With  respect  to  the  Secretariat  and  the  staff  of 

funds  and  programmes,  we  need 
take  urgent 
measures to end such harmful practices as the fact that 
a small group of developed countries control the main 
management  positions 
system’s  bodies. 
Regarding the work of funds and programmes, we can 
no 
the  resident 
coordinator  system  through  decentralization  and  a 
fairer  distribution  of  responsibilities  among  different 
agencies in the field. 

Cuba has carried out, before the agreed date, the 
majority  of  the  targets  set  under  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  despite  the  unfair  and  criminal 
economic  and  financial  blockade  imposed  by  the 
Government of the United States. That blockade is the 
main  obstacle  to  greater  development  in  Cuba  and  to 
raising  the  standard  of  living  of  our  population.  The 
results achieved by Cuba demonstrate its determination 
to  continue  fostering 
the  achievement  of  higher 
standards  of  living  and  well-being  for  our  population 
and  channelling  our  limited  resources  towards  those 
areas of greater socio-economic impact. 

Achieving human development has always been a 
priority  for  Cuba.  In  that  context,  it  should  be 
emphasized  that  the  Human  Development  Report, 
published annually by the United Nations Development 
Programme, should reflect the concepts and indicators 
that have intergovernmental consensus and acceptance. 
The  Human  Development  Report  should  abstain  from 
using  partial  and  politically  biased  sources.  It  should 
also  strictly 
that 
resolution  states,  consultations  with  Member  States  to 
draw  up  the  Human  Development  Report  should  be 
broad,  transparent  and  substantive  and  should  not  be 
limited to mere information sessions on how the Report 
was  drawn  up.  If  we  aspire  to  maintaining  the 
credibility  of  the  Human  Development  Report,  the 
criteria of Member States should be duly respected. 
resolution  57/264.  As 
respect 
is 
the 
time 
law,  will  we 

Allow  me  to  conclude  by  emphasizing  that  only 
with the participation of all, with genuine political will 
to  confront  the  current  pressing  problems  and  with  a 
strengthened  United  Nations,  a  firm  defender  of 
international 
comply  with  our 
responsibility  to  build  a  better  world  for  future 
generations. 
Mr.  Barton  (United  States  of  America):  The 

United  States  would  like  to  commend  Member  States 
for  the  success  of  the  September  High-level  Plenary 
Meeting  on 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs).  Now 
to  work  collectively, 
bilaterally  and  at  the  national  level  to  accelerate 
progress  towards  achieving  the  MDGs  and  other 
internationally agreed development goals. 

During his address on 22 September at the MDG 
summit  (see  A/65/PV.9),  President  Obama  unveiled  a 
new  United  States  development  strategy  that  strongly 
supports the full realization of the MDGs and reaffirms 
the  commitment  of  the  United  States  to  sustainable 
development and poverty alleviation. 

Our  strategy  is  an  outcome-  and  results-based 
approach  grounded  in  the  fact  that  sustained  and 
inclusive economic growth is the surest path to poverty 
alleviation  and  development.  It  stresses  the  need  to 
foster  innovation  and  deploy  new  technologies  to 
confront 
disease, 
undernutrition, climate change and other environmental 
challenges. Our strategy emphasizes country ownership 
and  national 
for  development  — 
principles that require accountability both from donors 
and  partner  countries.  We  are  working  with  our 
development  partners,  United  Nations  agencies, 
international 
non-governmental 
organizations  and  the  private  sector  towards  those 
goals. 
As tangible steps in that regard, the United States 

including  our 
introduced  major 
has 
$63 billion  Global  Health 
our 
$3.5 billion  Feed  the  Future  Initiative.  We  were  also 
pleased  to  announce  on  5  October  a  new  $4  billion 
multi-year  pledge  to  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS, 
Tuberculosis  and Malaria  — a 38 per  cent increase in 
the  United  States  investment  over  the  preceding  three 
years. 

We  were  honoured  to  join  the  international 
community as it demonstrated its support for maternal 
and  child  health  at  the  22  September  event  led  by  the 
responsibility 
institutions, 
initiatives, 
including 
Initiative 
threats, 
global 
and 
8 

10-64830 
Under 
agenda 
to  urge 
to 
tackle 
item  13, 
“Integrated 
The  United  States  continues 
the  Millennium  Declaration, 


Secretary-General,  and  we  look  forward  to  working 
with our partners to implement the strategy. 

and 
coordinated  implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the 
outcomes of the major United Nations conferences and 
summits in the economic, social and related fields”, we 
support  the  further  discussion  of  best  practices  and 
lessons  learned  in  the  pursuit  of  sustained,  inclusive 
and  equitable  economic  growth,  as  highlighted  in  the 
MDG summit outcome document (resolution 65/2). 
We  look  forward  to  the  high-level  meeting  on 

non-communicable  diseases  next  fall  and  support  a 
strong  preparatory  process,  including  a  development 
and  sector-wide  approach  with  a  socio-economic 
impact; 
the  prevention,  mitigation  and 
treatment  of  non-communicable  diseases.  The  United 
States is committed to a successful event and focused, 
tangible outcomes. 
full 

implementation of the outcomes of other major United 
summits, 
Nations  development  conferences  and 
including 
the 
Johannesburg Plan of Implementation, the 2005 World 
Summit  Outcome,  and  the  Monterrey  Consensus  and 
the Doha Declaration on Financing for Development. 

With  appropriate  and  needed  streamlining  of  its 
agenda items, the Economic and Social Council has an 
important role to play in the follow-up to the outcomes 
to major United Nations conferences and summits. The 
strengthening  of  the  annual  ministerial  review  and  its 
focus on key thematic issues related to the achievement 
of the Millennium Development Goals ensured that the 
Council played a vital role in the MDG summit. 

The United States is pleased to have joined others 
this year in making our national voluntary presentation 
on gender equality and women’s empowerment and to 
have  an  opportunity  to  exchange  views,  valuable 
information and experiences with other delegations. 

While  there  has  been  important  progress  in  the 
follow-up to major conferences and summits, including 
the Millennium Summit, much more needs to be done. 
The  United  States  looks  forward  to  continuing  the 
dialogue with other Member States on how to achieve 
the ambitious goals we have set for ourselves. 
Mr.  Rossi  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French):  My 

statement will address agenda item 115, “Follow-up to 
the outcome of the Millennium Summit”. 
A/65/PV.52
is  contributing 

Switzerland welcomes this opportunity to go back 
over  the  issues  of  the  effectiveness,  efficiency  and 
coherence of the United Nations development system. 

Since the publication in 2006 of the report of the 
High-level  Panel  on  United  Nations  System-wide 
Coherence  (see  A/61/583),  great  progress  has  been 
achieved at both global and national levels in terms of 
coordination  and  coherence  of  United  Nations 
development operations. For example, we can confirm 
that thanks to the “delivering as one” initiative, United 
Nations  development  assistance  has  become  more 
relevant.  Indeed,  it  has  been  confirmed  through  the 
recent  evaluations  conducted  by 
the  One  United 
Nations  pilot  countries  that  the  “delivering  as  one” 
approach 
to  renewed  Government 
leadership in United Nations programmes as well as to 
those  programmes  being  better  aligned  to  national 
priorities. 

That  is  encouraging.  But  is  it  enough?  As 
shareholders of the United Nations system, can we now 
simply sit back and hope for the best? 

Seeking better coherence and coordination is not 
enough, nor is it in itself our final objective. We have 
to  continue  to  work  together  to  optimize  development 
activities through a more efficient and effective United 
Nations  system.  To  do  that,  the  United  Nations 
operational  system  needs  to  improve  the  way  partner 
capacities  are  assessed  and  strengthened,  risks  are 
detected  and  managed,  and  results  are  monitored  and 
evaluated.  That  is  why  Switzerland  will  continue  to 
to  strengthen  and  harmonize 
insist  on 
evidence-based 
and 
programming,  monitoring 
evaluation systems within and across agencies. 

that  context,  my  country  awaits  with 
impatience the upcoming review of the experiences of 
countries  that  have  voluntarily  undertaken  the  reform 
process.  The  findings  will  supplement  the  experience 
of  the  United  Nations  operational  system  in  the 
national  application  of  the  reform,  with  a  view  to  the 
triennial  comprehensive  policy  review  of  operational 
activities  for  development  of  the  United  Nations 
system  in  2012.  That  will  contribute  to  informed 
decision-making  by  Member  States  on  how  to  keep 
improving  the  United  Nations  system  and  the  reform 
agenda so as to achieve better development results. 

The  sustained  will  of  Member  States  is  essential 
to making this reform a success, but it has to go hand 
in hand with  complete commitment of  United Nations 
the  need 
In 
10-64830 

9 
the  most  prominent  of  all  being 
A/65/PV.52 

agencies  and  strong  national  leadership.  As  Member 
States,  we  must  continue  to  encourage  and  guide  the 
system with coherent and action-oriented messages and 
decisions.  

Switzerland, for its part, hopes that the individual 
agencies  and  the  United  Nations  Development  Group 
(UNDG)  as  a  whole  will  continue  to  improve  the 
functioning  of  the  United  Nations  country  teams.  We 
believe  that  the  role  of  the  resident  coordinators  is 
essential in that regard. Therefore  we  urge the UNDG 
to put in place incentives and selection mechanisms to 
ensure  that  the  resident  coordinators’  positions  are 
granted  to  the  most  committed  and  competent  staff  in 
the United Nations agencies. 

Finally,  we  are  pleased  that  the  system-wide 
coherence  process  has  shown  impressive  institutional 
results, 
the 
establishment  of  a  new  United  Nations  agency  for 
women.  In  our  view,  UN  Women  presents  a  real 
opportunity  for  the  advancement  of  gender  equality 
worldwide. We have a shared responsibility to provide 
it with the means that enable it to act effectively. It will 
fall 
it  with 
outstanding  operational  and  technical  guidance  to 
ensure  that  it  is  able  to  pursue  its  mission  and 
contribute to bettering women’s lives. 
Mr. Al-Kuwari  (Qatar)  (spoke  in Arabic):  Qatar 

is grateful for the opportunity to speak in the debate on 
this agenda item. 

the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Yemen  on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 

to 
implement  the  resolutions  adopted  by  the  United 
Nations  and  how  to  improve  the  lives  of  millions  of 
people 
to  concentrate 
fundamentally on those most vulnerable to danger and 
poverty.  We  have  to  unite  to  fight  increasing  poverty, 
especially  in  developing  countries.  We  have  to  work 
together 
the  world  development 
programme,  including  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs),  making  progress  that  we  can  review 
and compare. 

Therefore  we  have  to  work  together  to  make 
comprehensive  economic  growth  a  goal  available  to 
all, especially to the poor, within the framework of the 
United  Nations.  We  need  to  concentrate  especially  on 
the  outset,  Qatar  aligns 
the  world.  We  have 
the  Executive  Board 
to  provide 
The  challenge 
that  we  all  face 
is  how 
to 
implement 
itself  with 
to 
At 
in 

and 
sustainable  development 
its  main  pillars, 
economic,  social  and  environmental.  That  is  our 
common responsibility, on which the credibility of the 
United Nations rests. 

The Monterrey Consensus that we agreed upon in 
2002  in  Mexico  and  reaffirmed  in  2008  at  the  Doha 
Review Conference in Qatar points to certain principal 
subjects  that  must  be  followed  up  and  implemented. 
We have to study the strategies and practical measures 
that can help us to implement ongoing progress in this 
vital  sphere.  We  also  have  to  accelerate  progress 
towards  achieving  the  MDGs.  We  have  to  strengthen 
sustainable  growth  to  enable  everyone,  including  the 
poor,  to  participate  in  and  benefit  from  economic 
opportunities.  That  should  provide  job  opportunities 
and increase incomes. We have to accelerate our efforts 
to fight poverty and to achieve the MDGs and enhance 
sustainable development. 

We  have  to  make  use  of  the  international  and 
national  efforts  already  made  towards  international 
partnership. That is vital for achieving the progress we 
all  aspire  to  in  this  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly.  Two  months  ago  we  held  the  High-level 
Plenary Meeting on implementation of the Millennium 
Development  Goals,  which  made  clear  what  we  can 
achieve globally through opportunities and prospects. 

The  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2) 
and  other  documents, 
the  Monterrey 
Consensus,  the  2005  Summit  Outcome  (resolution 
60/1)  and  the  Doha  Declaration  on  Financing  for 
Development  (resolution  63/239,  annex),  have  all 
urged us to face the main global challenge, which is to 
combat  poverty  and 
the  benefits  of 
development  available  to  all.  In  various  parts  of  the 
world  some  progress  towards  the  MDGs  has  been 
achieved,  but  developing  countries,  including  those  in 
sub-Saharan Africa,  have  not  been  able  to  acquire  the 
means that would allow them to achieve the Goals by 
2015. 

We have marched two thirds of the way to 2015, 
and the path forward to the MDGs has changed. We in 
Qatar  believe  that  the  main  engine  for  achieving  the 
MDGs will be finding international partnerships and a 
new, innovative mechanism to help people in the fields 
of  health,  education  and  appropriate  and  dignified 
employment for all. 
The  challenges  facing  us  are  greater  than  what 

was expected at the Monterrey Conference. On a daily 
to  make 
including 
10 

10-64830 
in 
terms  of 


basis we find new, unexpected challenges that threaten 
peace  and  security,  especially  in  the  economic  field. 
The most recent financial crisis happened too fast even 
for  those  who  are  experienced  in  dealing  with  such 
crises. The repercussions of what was called a financial 
problem  in  the  largest  industrial  country  in  the  world 
have  affected  all  the  other  countries  and  led  to  lower 
levels of productivity and to unemployment. 

The  progress  that  had  been  achieved  has  been 
reversed.  The  least  developed  countries  are  now  even 
more  vulnerable.  The  financial  transfers  to  those 
countries  have  been  reduced  by  half  or  more  in  some 
cases.  Even  the  income  of  some  of  the  oil-producing 
developing  countries  has  decreased.  The  fact  is  that, 
besides  the  issue  of  debt  alleviation,  we  can  say  that 
the  amount  of  real  official  development  assistance 
(ODA)  has  been  reduced.  The  challenge  is  to  respect 
the  pledges  of  the  Group  of  Eight,  which  seeks  to 
increase  ODA  by  $50  billion  and  to  double  assistance 
to Africa by 2010. 

I am pleased to mention that although the State of 
Qatar is a developing country, it has exceeded 0.7 per 
cent 
financial,  developmental  and 
humanitarian assistance. We have established rules and 
regulations  to  help  people  in  the  areas  of  health,  the 
economy, the environment and the diversity of income. 

Finally, I would like to say that the State of Qatar 
has joined the sponsors of draft resolution A/65/L.12. 
Ms. Tan (Singapore): I have the honour to deliver 

this  statement  on  draft  resolution  A/65/L.12,  entitled 
“Sustained,  inclusive  and  equitable  economic  growth 
for  poverty  eradication  and  achievement  of 
the 
Millennium Development Goals”, tabled under agenda 
item 13. 

Singapore  is  pleased  to  align  itself  with  the 
statements  delivered  earlier  by Viet  Nam  on  behalf  of 
the  13  Member  States  that  first  proposed  the  draft 
resolution, and that of the Republic of Korea, on behalf 
of the draft resolution’s 88 sponsors. 

its 
implementation,  we  hope  to  encourage  a  greater 
emphasis and attention and an exchange of experiences 
and expertise on the role of economic growth strategies 
in  efforts  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs). Why? 
First,  there  are  direct  and  indirect  connections 

between  the  eight  MDGs;  progress  in  one  area  often 
resolution 
Through 
draft 
this 
and 
A/65/PV.52
in 
have 
to 
for 
choose, 
instance, 
has  a  positive  effect  on  others.  Similarly,  we  see  a 
basic  correlation  between  sustained,  inclusive  and 
equitable  economic  growth  and  each  of  the  MDGs. 
Growth  is  often  an  indispensable,  though  insufficient, 
condition  for  development.  It  is  what  helps  generate 
the  long-term  national  resources  for  achieving  the 
MDGs. Progress on the MDGs front would in turn help 
to  promote  economic  growth.  For  instance,  gender 
equality  in  all  spheres,  including  in  education  and  the 
workforce,  could  help  reduce  poverty  and  drive 
growth. It is therefore useful for countries, in pursuing 
growth and the MDGs, to take into account that close, 
complex  and  often  positive  relationship 
their 
national development plans and strategies. 

That  may  sound  like  common  sense  to  most. 
However,  in  the  real  world  of  scarce  resources, 
compartmentalization  in  policy-making  and  stovepipe 
bureaucracies,  countries  are  sometimes  presented  with 
a  false  choice  between  those  goals.  Countries  should 
not 
between 
environmental sustainability and economic growth. We 
need  to  work  smarter  to  find  complementarities  and 
achieve both, because there will be no good long-term 
prospects for one without the other. 

Secondly,  we  see  benefits  in  greater  cross-
regional  exchanges  of  views  and  expertise  on  this 
issue.  The  United  Nations,  with 
its  universal 
membership  and  the  deep  expertise  and  wide  reach  of 
its 
this 
exchange. And while the food, fuel and financial crises 
of recent years have significantly slowed development 
efforts, key regions have shown strong improvement in 
niche areas. Africa and Latin America have made great 
strides  towards  education  and  gender  equality.  Those 
regions offer valuable lessons for Asia. 

to 
participate  and  offer  some  of  their  lessons  learned. A 
key  message  would  be  the  critical  need  for  national 
efforts, including pro-growth strategies and supportive 
social policies aimed at lifting millions out of poverty 
and  hunger.  In  Asia,  national  strategies  and  regional 
cooperation  often  go  hand 
in  hand.  Regional 
integration has undoubtedly played an important role in 
boosting  trade,  investment  and  development.  One 
example of that regional approach to collective growth 
is the ASEAN Connectivity Initiative. It seeks to close 
the  gaps  in  road  and  rail  links  and  aviation  and 
maritime services in order  to allow people, goods and 
services to flow more freely within the region. In then 
in  Asia  would  also  be  keen 
is  well  placed 
to  facilitate 
institutions, 
Countries 
10-64830 

11 
On 
in 
have 
formed 
partnerships  with 
A/65/PV.52 

linking  up  with  the  broader  East  Asian  region  and 
international markets, we bring more opportunities for 
trade,  investment,  tourism  and  development  to  our 
people. 

Open  markets  and  free  trade  are  linchpins  of 
Asia’s growth. The region’s belief in the importance of 
an  open  international  trading  system  is  undiminished 
despite the fact that the Doha Development Round has 
stalled.  Countries  in  Asia  have  embarked  on  an 
ambitious series of free trade negotiations, which will, 
hopefully, bring impetus to global trade talks. 

the 
the  whole,  regional  cooperation 
economic,  social,  political  and  security  spheres  have 
provided  a  uniquely  enabling  environment.  This 
regional  approach  to  development,  particularly  within 
the  context  of  South-South  cooperation,  is  one  that 
other regions may find relevant. 

Thirdly,  Singapore  has  worked  bilaterally  within 
the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), 
with Japan and Korea and with others outside of Asia. 
We 
various 
organizations of the United Nations system, such as the 
Economic  and  Social  Commission  for  Asia  and  the 
Pacific,  the  United  Nations  Development  Programme, 
the  International  Monetary  Fund,  the World  Bank,  the 
International  Maritime  Organization,  the  World  Trade 
Organization  and 
the  World  Intellectual  Property 
Organization  to  provide  technical  assistance  to  other 
developing  countries  in  macroeconomic  and  financial 
management,  urban  development,  trade  and  tourism 
promotion, 
resource 
development, et cetera. 

With the adoption of this draft resolution and its 
implementation,  Singapore  hopes  to  do  more,  to  learn 
from other countries and work with them to contribute 
towards 
inclusive  and  equitable 
economic growth of all countries. 
Mr.  Savostianov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  The  focused  and  effective  action  of  health-
care  systems  was  one  of  the  major  tasks  of  the  High-
level  Plenary  Meeting  this  year.  Therefore,  in  my 
statement,  I  want  to  deal  with  one  of  the  important 
aspects  of  this  matter,  and  that  is  the  prevention  and 
control of non-communicable diseases (NCDs). 

In  May  2009  the  General  Assembly  adopted  a 
resolution on this issue (resolution 64/265) for the first 
time. The increasing attention in the United Nations is 
port  management, 
sustained, 
human 

fully  justified:  NCDs  are  one  of  the  most  topical 
problems  of  global  development.  Recently  we  have 
seen  a  trend  towards  rising  rates  of  sickness  and 
mortality  from  non-communicable  diseases  in  the 
populations of all countries. According to World Health 
Organization  (WHO)  data,  cardiovascular  disease, 
cancer,  diabetes  and  chronic  lung  disease  claim  the 
lives  of  36  million  people  annually,  and  of  those,  9 
million  are  under  the  age  of  60. The  lack  of  effective 
measures  in  that  area  could  result  in  an  increase  of 
almost 20 per cent in the incidence of those diseases in 
developing  countries  by 
the  year  2015.  Also,  a 
decrease  in  life  expectancy  and  a  deterioration  in  the 
quality  of  life  goes  along  with  a  growing  economic 
burden on both States and households. 
A  direct  link  has  now  been  proven  between  the 

most  widespread  NCDs  and  living  conditions  and 
lifestyles,  in  particular  the  four  main  risk  factors: 
smoking, alcohol consumption, unhealthy diet and lack 
of  exercise.  The  possibility  of  effectively  preventing 
non-communicable  diseases  by  controlling  those  risk 
factors has been clearly established. Therefore, bearing 
in  mind  the  entire  range  of  economic,  social,  gender, 
behavioural, environmental and political aspects of the 
problem, 
be 
effectively  fought  only  with  a  multisectoral  approach. 
A  solid  foundation  for  collective  work  in  that  area  is 
the  WHO  2008-2013  Action  Plan  for  the  Global 
Strategy  for  the  Prevention  and  Control  of  Non-
Communicable Diseases. 

Resolution  64/265  on  prevention  and  control  of 
non-communicable  diseases,  which  calls  for  a  high-
level  meeting  of  the  General Assembly  on  the  subject 
in  September  2011,  is  an  important  step  forward.  As 
one of the sponsors of that resolution, Russia supports 
the  initiative  for  holding  a  summit  and  is  prepared  to 
participate  actively 
its  preparation.  A  critical 
challenge is to agree on the thematic scope, the format 
and  the  modalities  for  the  conduct  of  that  event.  We 
trust the capable leaders of the negotiating process, the 
Permanent  Representatives  of  Luxembourg 
and 
Jamaica,  to  prepare  the  relevant  General  Assembly 
draft  resolution.  The  success  of 
in 
September  2011  will  largely  depend  on  the  quality  of 
the organization and the fleshing out of the preparatory 
process. We believe that a leading role must be played 
by  WHO.  We  support  holding  regional  consultations 
under  WHO  auspices  in  preparation  for  the  summit, 
with  the  participation  of  the  private  sector  and  non-
non-communicable 
the  summit 
diseases 
can 
in 
the 
12 

10-64830 
preparatory 
process 
the  Russian  authorities 


governmental organizations, as well as the preparation 
of  informational  and  analytical  materials  and  reports, 
including 
the  first  global  WHO  report  on  non-
communicable diseases. 

The  first  global  conference  on  healthy  lifestyles 
and  NCDs,  to  be  held  at  the  ministerial  level  in 
Moscow  from  28  to  30  April  2011,  will  make  an 
important  contribution  to  advancing  the  international 
dialogue  on  NCD  issues,  determining  priorities  for 
cooperative  efforts  and  achieving  agreement  on 
principles. In resolution 64/265 the Assembly took note 
with appreciation of that initiative by the Government 
of  the  Russian  Federation.  The  conference  will  be 
organized  by 
in  close 
cooperation  with  WHO.  Priority  attention  will  be 
focused  on  organizing  an  open, 
transparent  and 
very 
inclusive 
close 
in 
coordination  with  WHO  and  with 
the  broad 
participation  of  Member  States  and 
international 
partners.  To  that  end,  preparations  for  the  conference 
the  Russian  organizing 
will  be  coordinated  by 
committee 
the 
international 
executive 
committee, comprised of 22 experts from all regions of 
the world. The regular meeting of that committee will 
be held in Oslo tomorrow, 24 November, on the eve of 
the 
European 
on 
non-communicable diseases. 
We will need to formulate the goals and issues for 

the  Moscow  conference  and  to  discuss  its  agenda, 
programme of work, format, and the parameters of the 
working  and  final  documents.  We  anticipate  that  the 
format  of  the  conference  will  be  a  plenary  meeting, 
working  meetings  and  a  drafting  group,  with  parallel 
round tables. A partners forum with the participation of 
all interested parties will be organized on the margins. 
At  the  end  of  the  conference  a  ministerial  declaration 
will be adopted. 

Invitations  to  the  Moscow  conference  on  behalf 
of  the  Government  of  the  Russian  Federation  and  the 
Director General of WHO will be sent out at the end of 
November, once agreed to by the executive committee. 
The invitation will be accompanied by a concept paper, 
a draft agenda and a draft programme of work for the 
conference. We are convinced that the conference will 
make  a  serious  and  substantive  contribution  towards 
the preparation of the United Nations summit on non-
communicable  diseases,  and  we  invite  all  countries  to 
participate actively in the Moscow event. 
consultations 
and  by 
WHO 
A/65/PV.52
Mr.  Wetland  (Norway):  I  will  be  addressing 

agenda item 115 this morning. We know that the global 
burden  of  disease  is  changing.  Non-communicable 
diseases (NCDs) account for almost 90 per cent of the 
disease burden in the European region and for about 60 
per cent of all deaths worldwide. Part of the reason for 
that  is  that  we  have  been  successful  in  combating 
communicable  diseases,  as  we  have  often  heard  in 
recent  years,  and  part  of  the  reason  is  that  we  live 
longer  than  we  did  a  few  decades  ago.  We  have  also 
experienced  an  economic  growth  that  allows  more 
people — regrettably — to pursue unhealthy lifestyles. 
Tobacco consumption, obesity, unhealthy diet, physical 
inactivity and alcohol are key contributing factors. 

We  have  increasingly  solid  data  on  the  situation 
of  NCDs  in  poor  countries.  According  to  the  World 
Health  Organization  (WHO),  mortality  from  NCDs  is 
going to increase over the next 10 years, most rapidly 
in  low-  and  middle-income  countries.  It  is  therefore 
timely to address NCDs as a global challenge. 

The considerable progress that has been achieved 
in  global  health  over  the  past  decade  shows  that 
concerted efforts produce results. Child mortality is on 
the decline, there is better access to vaccines and life-
saving  antiretrovirals,  and  the  health  workforce  has 
been recognized as the most valuable asset of national 
health  systems,  not  simply  an  expenditure.  However, 
several  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs), in particular those that concern women’s and 
children’s  health  and  well-being,  are  still  far  from 
being  reached  and  require  sustained  attention  and 
commitment. That will be particularly important in the 
next  few  years  as  the  world  enters  the  final  drive  to 
deliver on the MDGs by 2015. 

In  that  regard  it  is  important  to  note  that 
communicable diseases, such as HIV, tuberculosis and 
malaria,  and  the  conditions  that  cause  maternal  and 
child  mortality  still  constitute  a  greater  share  of  the 
burden  of  disease  borne  by  the  poorest  segments  of 
populations.  Common  communicable  diseases  and 
malnutrition are still the main causes of high child and 
maternal mortality in the poorest countries. The MDGs 
and  their  focus  on  poverty  must  therefore  continue  to 
be given top priority by the global community, and the 
Norwegian Government will certainly do so. 

It  is  therefore  essential  that  we  move  ahead  in  a 
way  that  reinforces  national  and  global  public  health 
systems  and 
fragmentation  and 
that  we  avoid 
10-64830 

13 
is 
the 

there 
First, 
should 
support 
external 
A/65/PV.52 

competition  for  scarce  resources.  In  that  regard,  there 
are  useful  lessons  to  be  drawn  from  our  experience 
with  MDG-related  global  health  initiatives.  I  would 
like to focus on a few of them in particular. 

importance  of  designing 
international  initiatives  so  that  they  are  driven  by 
countries themselves: national Governments must take 
the  lead.  That  is  particularly  important  for  NCDs 
because  an  effective  response  requires  cross-sectoral 
action, including national legislation and regulation. 
Secondly,  we  wish  to  draw  attention  to  the 

importance of strengthening national health systems to 
address  infectious  and  non-communicable  diseases 
holistically: 
contribute 
systematically to strengthening national health systems 
and  avoid  the  fragmentation  that  we  see  too  often  in 
the health sector. 

Thirdly,  global  health  initiatives  have  to  a  large 
extent  focused  on  service  delivery  and  individual 
interventions, and much less on prevention. By forcing 
us  to  prioritize  health  promotion  and  cross-sectoral 
action,  action  to  combat  NCDs  can  add  significant 
value  through  the  resulting  strengthening  of  public 
health  functions  and  the  stewardship  role  of  health 
ministries. 

the  start,  Governments  must 
establish  inclusive  partnerships  with  civil  society  and 
the private sector. That has been key to success in the 
AIDS  response  and  has  also  been  our  experience  in 
Norway regarding NCDs. 

Fifthly,  it  is  more  true  than  ever  before  that 
money  matters  —  but  money  alone  is  not  sufficient. 
Many countries are in constrained economic situations, 
with  public  budgets, 
those  for  official 
development  assistance,  under  severe  pressure.  The 
emerging  NCD  movement  is  well  placed  to  produce 
integrated  plans,  with  realistic  resource  needs,  that 
emphasize  value  for  money  and  focus  on  actions  that 
are  needed  in  that  phase.  In  the  years  leading  up  to 
2015  we  must  expand  the  evidence  base  needed  for 
decision makers; support national leadership and cross-
sectoral  capacity;  and  document  what  works 
in 
different contexts. 

We  fully  support  the  WHO  Global  Strategy  for 
the  Prevention  and  Control  of  NCDs.  It  provides  an 
excellent framework for the work ahead. We encourage 
WHO  to  continue  providing  evidence  and  data  in 
Fourthly,  from 
including 
for 
the  meeting, 
preparation  for  the  High-level  Meeting  on  NCDs  in 
September  next  year.  Later  this  week,  as  part  of  the 
preparations 
the  Norwegian 
Government is hosting the United Nations Department 
of  Economic  and  Social  Affairs-WHO  regional  high-
level  consultation  on  NCDs  in  Oslo.  The  53  member 
States of WHO’s European region have been invited to 
attend. 

Next  year’s  High-level  Meeting  offers  a  key 
opportunity  to  galvanize  Member  States  into  action  to 
reduce premature mortality from NCDs, with particular 
focus  on 
the  developmental  challenges  faced  by 
developing countries. We look forward to an inclusive 
meeting involving many partners, where we can agree 
on near-term actions and on a way to ensure that NCDs 
in  the  longer  term  are  aligned  with  the  health  MDGs 
and  can  support  the  strengthening  of  national  health 
systems in an effective and sustained way. 
Mr. AlMehaini  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  We 

are  pleased  to  be  participating  in  the  debate  on  the 
follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of  major  United  Nations 
conferences and the High-level Plenary meeting on the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  at  the  sixty-
fifth  session  of  the  General Assembly. We  would  also 
like 
to  express  our  support  for  draft  resolution 
A/65/L.12  on  the  follow-up  to  commitments  for  the 
MDGs, which ratifies the  outcome document (A/65/1) 
of the High-level Conference held in September on the 
MDGs. 

We  also  reiterate  our  support  for  the  outcome 
document  of  the  thirty-fourth  Annual  Meeting  of  the 
Ministers  for  Foreign Affairs  of  the  Group  of  77  and 
China, held here at the United Nations in New York, on 
addressing 
facing 
developing countries. My delegation would also like to 
thank  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
for  his 
comprehensive report dealing with both the challenges 
and  the  progress  made  in  keeping  promises  and  the 
agreed programme of work for the MDGs in 2015. 

At  the  High-level  Summit  in  September  in  New 
York, the world’s leaders discussed the implementation 
of  the  MDGs  and  concluded  that  progress  towards 
achieving  Goal  1,  namely,  eliminating  poverty  and 
hunger, is lagging, given that in 2009 there were more 
than  one  billion  people  in  the  world  living  in  poverty 
and hunger. We must also step up our efforts to achieve 
the  other  two  MDGs  regarding  maternal  and  child 
health  and  work 
the  expected 
development 
challenges 
to  make 
together 
the 
14 

10-64830 
a 
identified 
increasing 
leaders  also 
to  cooperate  with 


progress.  The  world 
the 
challenges  that  the  international  community  has  been 
facing during the past few years, such as rises in food 
prices, the world financial and economic crisis, and the 
fluctuations in energy prices, as well as other problems 
that  require  all  States,  especially  developed  countries, 
to honour their commitments to allocate 0.7 per cent of 
gross domestic product (GDP) for official development 
assistance (ODA). In this context, we would like to pay 
tribute  to  the  donor  countries  that  have  committed  to 
0.7 per cent of their GDP for ODA. 

Kuwait understands that sustainable development 
requires  national  development,  and,  as  such,  has 
drafted 
comprehensive  national  development 
programme for the period 2010-2014. The plan aims at 
improving  the  areas  of  education,  health,  human 
resources, institutions and infrastructure, among others. 
Nor  have  we  failed  in  our  international  commitments 
ever  since  we  pledged 
the 
international community to achieve the lofty MDGs by 
the deadline, Kuwait has increased its contribution, as 
well  as 
its  assistance 
to  developing 
countries to 1.31 per cent of our GDP. 

In  regard  to  Africa  and  efforts  to  combat  the 
scourges  that  affect  it,  particularly  increasing  disease 
and  poverty,  we  have  allotted  $300  million  to  the 
Islamic  Development  Bank,  as  well  as  another 
$100 million for Kuwait’s decent living fund, aimed at 
providing  rapid  food  supplies  for  the  needy  and 
increasing  harvests  and  agricultural  products, 
in 
cooperation with other similar initiatives. 

Aware  of  the  need  to  diversify  and  expand 
assistance to developing countries, the Emir of Kuwait 
has implemented a support fund for small and medium-
sized  enterprises  with  a  capital  endowment  worth 
$2 billion.  Five  hundred  million  dollars  of  its  capital 
will  be  used  to  create  employment  opportunities  for 
Arab  youth  and  the  fight  against  poverty.  It  will  also 
underpin  the  Kuwait  Development  Fund  by  focusing 
on 
financing  development  and 
infrastructure  projects  in  more  than  100  countries  to 
the tune of some $15 billion. 

With  regard  to  reviewing  the  progress  towards 
reaching 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  we 
believe that it is still possible to attain the Millennium 
Development  Goals  by  2015  despite 
the  global 
challenges  for  the  international  community.  Everyone 
was  unanimous  in  stating  that  political  will,  joint 
supporting  and 
A/65/PV.52
the 
global 
burden 
highlights, 
Mr.  Quinlan  (Australia):  My  delegation 
action and respect for the commitments were needed to 
achieve the Goals. 

Despite  the  difficulties  hampering  the  efforts  of 
States  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
we agree with the Secretary-General when he says that 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  are  still  possible 
and achievable, with a view to creating a better world 
where the gaps resulting from differences and divisions 
are  narrowed  and  the  prospects  for  cooperation  and 
partnership are widened and where peace and security 
prevail. 
is 

honoured  to  be  a  sponsor  of  the  draft  resolution  in 
document  A/65/L.12  on  sustained, 
inclusive  and 
equitable economic growth, and we look forward to its 
adoption. 

This morning, however, I want to comment on the 
vital  issue  of  non-communicable  diseases.  As  the 
report  transmitted  in  the  Secretary-General’s  note 
(A/65/362) 
of 
non-communicable  diseases  constitutes  one  of  the 
major  challenges  for  development  in  the  twenty-first 
century,  impacting  particularly  developing  countries. 
Cardiovascular  diseases,  cancer,  chronic  lung  diseases 
and  diabetes  have  emerged  as  major  public  health 
of 
problems, 
incidence 
non-communicable 
and 
poor 
vulnerable  groups 
inequalities 
within  and  among  countries.  In  Australia’s  own 
immediate  region,  non-communicable  diseases  are  the 
leading  cause  of  death  in  the  Pacific  island  countries, 
where they account  for  over 75 per  cent of the deaths 
every  year.  The  rate  of  diabetes,  in  particular  in  the 
counties  of  the  Pacific,  is  among  the  highest  in  the 
world. We should all be warned of the dangers of those 
diseases, including diabetes. I should say that I wish I 
had listened to my own doctor. I am a diabetic, and, if I 
had listened to his warnings at a much earlier stage in 
my life, I would not face the prospects that I now face. 

International 
Development is working closely with partner countries 
in our region to lower the incidence and impact of non-
communicable 
through 
strengthening  national  health  systems,  scaling  up 
preventative  health  and  health  promotion  programmes 
and improving access to health services. In Nauru, for 
example,  Australia  has  supported  the  development  of 
legislation 
for 
diseases 
among 
is  widening  health 
The  Australian  Agency 
increasing 
including 
disease, 
address 
and 
the 
for 
to 
the 
risk 
factors 
10-64830 

15 
to 
and 
tackle  maternal 
A/65/PV.52 

non-communicable  diseases,  including,  in  particular, 
through  a  new  tobacco  bill;  in  Samoa,  we  support  a 
programme of health promotion and disease prevention 
at  the  community  and  institutional  levels;  and  in 
Tonga,  we  are  working  to  reduce  the  prevalence  of 
non-communicable  disease  risk  factors,  in  particular, 
obesity and tobacco use. 

Australia  is  very  encouraged  that  health  issues 
are  being  given  an  increasingly  high  priority  on  the 
United Nations agenda. At the launch of the Secretary-
General’s Global Strategy  on Women’s  and Children’s 
Health  during  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
summit in September, we committed to scaling up our 
efforts 
child  health 
internationally  (see  A/65/PV.9),  and  we  will,  in  fact, 
spend  an  additional  $1.6  billion  over  the  next  five 
years to contribute to that project. 

In  June  2011,  10  years  after  the  United  Nations 
first  special  session  of  the  General  Assembly  on 
HIV/AIDS,  we  will  gather  to  review  progress  and 
reaffirm our commitment to achieving universal access 
to  HIV  prevention,  treatment,  care  and  support.  The 
high-level  meeting  on  non-communicable  diseases  in 
September  will  provide  a 
to 
consider  how  to  scale  up  our  actions  to  prevent  and 
control non-communicable diseases. 

There are many steps that we can take to reduce 
the  risk  factors  and  improve  access  to  health  care  for 
those affected by non-communicable diseases, and it is 
crucial that the challenge be given greater attention in 
national  health  plans  and  development  strategies.  We 
must  also  recognize 
the  chronic  nature  of  such 
diseases, and that multisectoral efforts will be required 
over  many  years  before  we  see  a  change  in  the 
incidence of non-communicable diseases. 
Australia, for its part, will do what it can to help 

reduce 
the  global  burden  of  non-communicable 
diseases. We very much welcome the initiative to hold 
the high-level meeting in September next year, and we 
will  continue  to  play  a  constructive  role  in  the 
preparations for that meeting. 
Mr.  McLay  (New  Zealand):  I  wonder  if  I  might 

crave  the  President’s  indulgence  for  a  moment  and 
express  thanks  to  the  many  delegations  that  have 
conveyed sympathy and concern to New Zealand at the 
plight of the 29 trapped miners. We are grateful for the 
thoughts  and  prayers  conveyed 
to  us  by  many 
delegations at this very difficult time. 
timely  opportunity 

towards 
that  better, 
faster  progress 

On  19  October  2010,  this  General  Assembly 
adopted  a  resolution  endorsing  the  outcome  of  the 
High-level Plenary Meeting of the sixty-fifth session of 
the General Assembly on the Millennium Development 
Goals (MDGs) (resolution 65/1). 

Today, we debate the follow-up to that resolution. 
In  its  statement  on  20  September  2010  at  that  High-
level  Plenary  Meeting,  New  Zealand  expressed  the 
view 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  is  achievable  (see 
A/65/PV.4).  We  stressed  the  need  to  place  a  higher 
premium  on  outcomes  and  cooperation. We  noted  that 
more  money  alone  would  not  solve  all  the  problems 
and that a much greater focus on aid effectiveness was 
required.  We  also  highlighted  the  connection  between 
the  MDGs  and  sustainable  economic  development, 
which  is  a  priority  for  New  Zealand’s  own  aid 
programme. 

Those points  have been well captured within the 
MDG  outcome  document,  which  was  endorsed  by  the 
General  Assembly  last  month.  They  are  critical  to 
advancing  our  commitment  to  achieving  the  MDGs 
and, as such, I suggest that outcomes, cooperation and 
aid effectiveness should be central to our debate today. 

We  are  acutely  aware  that,  of  the  eight  MDGs, 
MDG 4  and  MDG 5 on health and MDG 3 on gender 
are  the  most  challenging.  I  come  from  the  South 
Pacific — a region that is second only to sub-Saharan 
Africa  in  terms  of  the  lack  of  progress  towards 
achieving the MDGs. While infant and child mortality 
rates  have  improved  in  most  Pacific  island  countries, 
maternal deaths have increased in Papua New Guinea, 
for 
to 
reproductive  health  and  gender  equality  continues  to 
elude many Pacific island countries. 

The MDG High-level Plenary outcome document 
sets  out  very  clear  steps  to  guide  us  in  keeping  the 
promise  to  achieve  the  MDGs.  For  its  part,  New 
Zealand intends to work harder on donor coordination, 
for example, through our Cairns Compact engagement, 
in  order  to  focus  more  on  results  and  practical 
interventions  that  improve  economic  and  social  well-
being. 

Without  detracting  from  any  other  MDG-related 
issues,  I  should  highlight  a  relevant  health  and 
development  concern  that  is  exercising  New  Zealand 
and our Pacific neighbours, that is, the growing burden 
of  non-communicable  diseases,  referred  to  in  two 
instance,  and  achieving  universal  access 
16 

10-64830 
of 
and 
health 
systems 


paragraphs  of 
the  outcome  document,  namely, 
paragraph  73  (k),  which  calls  for  strengthening  the 
effectiveness 
proven 
interventions  to  address  evolving  health  challenges 
such  as  the  increased  incidence  of  non-communicable 
diseases;  and  paragraph  76  (i),  which  calls  for 
concerted  action  and  a  coordinated  response  at  the 
national,  regional  and  global  levels  to  adequately 
address  the  developmental  and  other  challenges  posed 
by non-communicable diseases, namely, cardiovascular 
diseases,  cancers,  chronic  respiratory  diseases  and 
diabetes. In New Zealand, cancer and heart disease are 
the  main  causes  of  death,  and  disparities  between 
ethnic  groups  are  particularly  worrying  —  notably 
among our Maori and Pasifika populations. 
In the Pacific, more than 70 per cent of deaths are 

due 
to  non-communicable  diseases,  and  rates  of 
non-communicable disease-related blindness, disability 
and renal failure are also increasing. 

In  response  to  the  growing  burden  of  non-
communicable diseases globally, the New Zealand Aid 
Programme and New Zealand researchers and scientists 
have been working collaboratively with partners to find 
solutions  to  stem  that  epidemic  and  avoid  the  dire 
social and economic consequences that can ensue. 

Earlier  this  year,  New  Zealand  co-sponsored  the 
resolution  in  which  the  General  Assembly  decided  to 
hold  a  high-level  meeting  on  the  prevention  and 
control  of  non-communicable  diseases  in  September 
2011. New Zealand is committed to engaging actively 
and  productively  in  all  the  processes  relating  to  that 
meeting,  including  negotiations  on  the  resolution  on 
modalities that are currently under way. 

New Zealand stands committed and ready to play 
its part in assisting the global community in addressing 
the challenge presented by chronic, non-communicable 
diseases, 
the  equally  chronic  and 
associated  cycles  of  debt  and  illness,  and  thus,  in 
achieving more equitable human development. 
Mr. Manjeev Singh Puri (India): At the outset, I 

would like to add my voice to the others in extending 
our sympathies to New Zealand for the situation of the 
trapped miners. 
In  addition,  our  heartfelt  condolences  go  to  the 

Government  and  people  of  Cambodia 
the 
significant number of tragic deaths in the stampede that 
has been reported in today’s media. 
in  addressing 
A/65/PV.52
through  an 

My  delegation  wishes  to  thank  the  President  for 
organizing  today’s  joint  debate  on  agenda  items  13, 
115  and  120.  The  issues  they  deal  with  are  central  to 
our collective efforts to strengthen the United Nations 
system  and  even  more  relevant  for  the  theme  that  the 
President  has  chosen  for  the  current  session  of  the 
General  Assembly,  namely,  “Reaffirming  the  central 
role of the United Nations in global governance”. 

India  has  all  along  emphasized  that  sustaining 
economic  growth  is  key  for  poverty  eradication.  It  is 
also  imperative  that  the  fruits  of  development  reach 
across the board and result in inclusive growth and the 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. 

We  are,  therefore,  happy  to  co-sponsor  draft 
resolution A/65/L.12, entitled “Sustained, inclusive and 
equitable economic growth for poverty eradication and 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals”, 
for adoption by the General Assembly later today. 
In that regard, we recognize the crucial role of the 

Economic  and  Social  Council 
in  pushing  for  a 
comprehensive  development  agenda  at  the  United 
Nations 
integrated  and  coordinated 
approach. 

We  align  ourselves  with  the  statement  by  the 
Chairperson of the Group of 77 and China on the 2010 
Human  Development  report  of  the  World  Health 
Organization  (WHO),  which  I  will  now  address.  Like 
many  other  countries, 
is  also  undergoing 
epidemiologic transition with the initial high burden of 
disease  and  mortality  owing  to  infectious  diseases 
gradually  giving  way  to  non-communicable  diseases, 
injuries  and  geriatric  problems  as  the  main  burden  of 
disease. 

It  is  estimated  that  42  per  cent  of  all  deaths  in 
India today are due to non-communicable diseases, and 
we have lost millions of potentially productive years of 
life,  owing 
caused  by 
cardiovascular  disease  in  the  35  to  64  year-old  age 
group.  That  also 
the 
challenge  we  face.  There  is  also  emerging  evidence 
that  poor  people  are  particularly  vulnerable 
to 
non-communicable  diseases,  owing  to  high  rates  of 
smoking  and  tobacco  use,  occupational  risks,  and 
living conditions. 

The Government of India has accorded very high 
priority  to  health  care  in  our  country.  Our  flagship 
National Rural Health Mission is using innovative and 
to  premature  deaths 
the  enormity  of 
illustrates 
India 
for 
10-64830 

17 

for 
including  national  programmes 
A/65/PV.52 

decentralized  approaches  to  public  health  with  strong 
involvement of local communities. The Indian Ministry 
of  Health  and  Family  Welfare  has  also  formulated 
various  national  programmes  for  non-communicable 
diseases, 
the 
prevention  and  control  of  diabetes,  cardiovascular 
disease  and  cerebral  vascular  diseases,  as  well  as  the 
National  Cancer  Control  Programme  and  the  National 
Mental  Health  Programme.  While  obviously  much  is 
being invested in the prevention and health promotion 
side,  we  need,  of  course,  to  tackle  the  need  for 
affordable treatment. With non-communicable diseases 
becoming  a  major  issue  globally,  it  is  imperative  that 
policies with regard to access to safe drugs also ensure 
their affordability for all. We look forward to the high-
level  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  in  September 
2011, as it will give us an opportunity to bring global 
attention to this important and growing developmental 
challenge. 
My  delegation  also  welcomes  the  report  of  the 

Joint  Inspection  Unit  (JIU)  on  the  selection  and 
conditions of service of executive heads in the United 
Nations  system  organizations.  It  is  a  long  overdue 
evaluation of the legal and institutional framework and 
practices followed in the selection and appointment of 
such senior officials. We are firmly of the view that the 
relevant  legislative  bodies,  whether  it  be  the  General 
Assembly, in the case of the Secretary-General, or the 
governing  bodies,  as 
the  funds, 
programmes  and  specialized  agencies,  should  have  a 
greater  role  in  such  appointments.  My  delegation  has 
repeatedly  voiced  our  strong  support  for  a  greater  say 
on the part of the General Assembly in  the process  of 
selection of the Secretary-General, most recently in the 
context  of  our  discussion  on  the  revitalization  of  the 
General Assembly. 

The  report  of  the  JIU  should  give  an  impetus  to 
the  discussion  among  Member  States  to  enhance  the 
role  of  the  General  Assembly  in  selection  of  the 
Secretary-General. 

The situation is not much different in the case of 
executive  heads  of  the  funds  and  programmes.  The 
process  of  consulting  the  governing  bodies  must 
involve  real  engagement  with  Member  States.  We 
would  not  like  to  see  it  reduced  to  a  mere  pro  forma 
exercise, which is, regretfully, the case at present, with 
Member  States  given  unrealistically  tight  time  frames 
to  react  to  the  Secretary-General’s  recommendations. 
My  delegation  believes  the  JIU  has  offered  useful 
the  case  of 
in 
effective, 
Ms.  Filip
transparent, 
system  more 
recommendations  on  the  selection  and  conditions  of 
service  of  executive  heads  in  the  United  Nations 
system. It supports the objective of making the process 
and 
and 
accountable by involving its principal stakeholders. We 
urge Member States to give it careful consideration. 
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

General  Assembly  resolution  57/32  of  19  November 
2002,  I  now  call  on  the  observer  of  the  Inter-
Parliamentary Union. 
(Inter-Parliamentary  Union):  The 

subject of today’s joint debate is too vast to be covered 
satisfactorily  in  a  single  statement. At  the  same  time, 
this  may  not  be  the  time  and  place  to  recount  in  any 
great  detail  the  actual,  concrete  work  that  the  Inter-
Parliamentary  Union  (IPU)  is  doing  in  follow-up  to 
major  United  Nations  conferences,  much  of  which  we 
have covered in other recent statements or is reflected 
in the biennial report of the United Nations Secretary-
General  on  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations, 
national parliaments and the IPU. I will thus focus my 
remarks  on  one  issue  that,  by  and  large,  remains 
critical  to  the  follow-up  and  implementation  of  global 
commitments  emanating  from  major  United  Nations 
conferences, namely the issue of national ownership. 

Global  commitments  by  definition  are  binding 
primarily  on  Governments,  but  they  become  tangible 
only  when  all  stakeholders  are  made  to  feel  involved 
and empowered to play their role. That in turn requires 
that  national  actors  comprehend  what  is  at  stake,  the 
various  ramifications  of  the  commitments  taken,  the 
policy  prescriptions 
those 
commitments,  and  the  specific  actions  that  must  be 
undertaken  to  help  Governments  make  good  on  their 
promises  here  at  the  United  Nations.  Our  experience 
over the last few years tells us that there must be more 
buy-in at the national level for global commitments to 
take hold. Parliaments provide a case in point on how 
necessary that is and how it can be achieved. 

The  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs), 
which  originated  with  the  Millennium  Declaration 
(resolution  55/2),  are,  of  course,  very  high  on  our 
agenda,  but  the  action  of  the  IPU  extends  to  other 
issues  as  well,  from  HIV  and  AIDS  to  the  least 
developed countries (LDCs), climate change and trade, 
to  mention 
support  parliamentary 
engagement  on  those  issues,  the  IPU  employs  several 
modalities  —  some  well  tried  and  consecrated,  others 
that  are  embedded 
in 
a 
few.  To 
18 

10-64830 
to 
include 
the 
legislators 
to  exchange 
last  year 
the 
substantive  exercise 
the  occasion  of 


more  innovative,  which  we  hope  to  put  to  the  test  in 
the coming years. 

There  is  a  growing  practice  on  the  part  of 
Member  States 
in  national 
delegations  to  major  United  Nations  conferences  and 
reviews. On such occasions, we find that there is value 
in  bringing 
those  members  of  parliament  (MPs) 
together 
ideas  and  experiences  and 
identify  avenues  for  follow-up  action  within  their 
parliaments  back  home.  A  recent  illustration  of  that 
was  a  parliamentary  meeting  at  the  MDG  Summit, 
where  some  70  members  of  parliament  from  relevant 
select committees met to examine the Summit outcome 
document  and  to  compare  notes  on  their  own  work  in 
relation  to  the  MDGs.  Similarly,  the  IPU  will  be 
holding  a  one-day  parliamentary  meeting  on  climate 
change  on  6  December  in  Cancún,  building  on  the 
in 
positive  and 
Copenhagen  on 
fifteenth 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change. 

Within  the  IPU’s  regular  programme  of  work, 
briefings  and  panel  discussions  are  held  at  IPU 
conferences  and  assemblies,  where  members  engage 
with United Nations officials and among themselves in 
preparation for or in follow-up to major United Nations 
processes.  A  recent  example  of  that  is  a  thematic 
session held last month at the 123rd IPU Assembly in 
Geneva  within  the  Committee  on  United  Nations 
Affairs and with the participation of the United Nations 
the  Least  Developed 
High  Representative 
for 
Countries,  which  sought 
the  views  of 
parliamentarians  on  their  concerns  and  priorities  with 
respect  to  a  new  programme  of  action  for  the  LDCs. 
The outcome of that debate, also circulated here among 
United  Nations  Member  States,  will  help  inform  the 
IPU  contribution  to  the  process  leading  up  to  the 
Istanbul Summit next year. 
Another  modality  whereby  the  IPU  seeks  to 

implementation  of  major  global 
advance 
commitments is directed at enhancing the capacity and 
institutional mechanisms for parliaments to mainstream 
the  outcomes  of  international  conferences  and  related 
commitments.  Earlier  this  year,  for  example,  the  IPU 
conducted a  comparative study on how parliaments as 
institutions  deal  with  the  MDGs.  The  results  varied 
greatly,  from  parliaments  that  have  no  particular 
follow-up  mechanism  to  parliaments  that  have  set  up 
specialized  MDG  committees  or  caucuses.  One  of  the 
to  elicit 
A/65/PV.52
throughout 
such  as  health,  education  or 
findings of the study is that huge global agendas, such 
as the MDGs, which cut across many policy areas, are 
through  established  committees  of 
best  pursued 
parliaments, 
the 
environment,  and  that  those  committees  must  be 
provided with the necessary information and expertise. 
The  parliamentary  committees  are  a  home  for  the 
MDGs,  provided  that  they  do  not  work  in  isolation 
from one another. If a specialized committee or caucus 
for the MDGs needs to be established, one of its main 
functions  is  precisely  to  help  ensure  coherence  and 
coordination 
the  parliamentary  system 
when developing an integrated approach to the MDGs. 

Another area of particular importance for the IPU 
has to do with the type of role that parliaments can and 
should play in the review of implementation of existing 
international 
commitments.  When  dealing  with 
national  reviews  of  progress  towards  meeting  the 
MDGs or international commitments in the area of the 
LDCs  or  HIV  and  AIDS,  it  is  helpful  when  progress 
reports are also placed on the agendas of parliaments. 

Perhaps  one  of  the  most  successful  mechanisms 
that we have been able to develop thus far involves the 
United  Nations  human  rights  treaty  body  system,  and 
in particular the Convention on the Elimination of All 
Forms of Discrimination against Women (CEDAW). In 
that  case,  the  IPU  works  with  the  parliaments  of  the 
countries under review, so that they can take part in the 
review  process  at  the  national  level,  provide  input  to 
the  national  report,  attend  the  session  of  the  CEDAW 
Committee and receive the United Nations findings for 
further  consideration  and  action  by  the  parliament 
concerned. We feel that that exercise is one that can be 
replicated in other areas as well. 

In conclusion, from our perspective, another way 
to look at the question of follow-up to United Nations 
conferences  is  through  the  larger  prism  of  how  the 
United  Nations  as  a  system  engages  with  national 
parliaments and with the IPU. What we have described 
now is just one dimension of a much larger debate that 
we can expect to have in this Hall in just a few weeks’ 
time.  Please  allow  me  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
remind  delegations 
resolution  on 
cooperation  between  the  two  organizations  has  been 
tabled  on  the  basis  of  a  very  substantive  report  of  the 
Secretary-General of the United Nations. We invite all 
delegations 
that  report  for  a  more 
comprehensive  overview  of  how  we  are  working  to 
that  a  draft 
to  consider 
10-64830 

19 

The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
A/65/PV.52 

support  the  implementation  of  global  commitments  at 
both the policy and the operational levels. 

speaker in the debate on this agenda item. 

The  Assembly  will  now  take  action  on  draft 
resolution A/65/L.12, entitled “Sustained, inclusive and 
equitable economic growth for poverty eradication and 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals”. I 
give the floor to the representative of the Secretariat to 
announce the additional co-sponsors. 
Mr.  Zhang  Saijin  (Department  for  General 

Assembly and Conference Management): I should like 
to  announce  that,  in  addition  to  the  sponsors  listed  in 
draft resolution A/65/L.12 and those announced by the 
representative  of  the  Republic  of  Korea  when  he 
introduced the draft resolution, the following countries 
have  also  become  sponsors  of  A/65/L.12:  Guyana, 
Montenegro, the Republic of Moldova, San Marino and 
Ukraine. 
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 

Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/65/L.12? 
adopted

Draft 
(resolution 65/10). 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  has  thus 

concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of  agenda 
items 13, 115 and 120. 
resolution  A/65/L.12  was 




for 
agenda 
“Global 
dialogue 
Agenda item 15 (continued)
Culture of peace 
  Draft resolution A/65/L.8 

The Acting President: Members will recall that, 

at its 32nd and 33rd meetings on 18 October 2010, the 
Assembly considered in a joint debate agenda item 14, 
entitled 
among 
civilizations”,  and  agenda  item  15,  and  that  at  its 
34th meeting  on  20  October  2010 
the  General 
Assembly adopted resolution 65/5. 
I  now  give  the  floor  to  Mr.  Mahmood  Ali, 

Member  of  Parliament  and  Chairman  of 
the 
Parliamentary  Standing  Committee  of  the  Ministry  of 
Foreign  Affairs  of  Bangladesh,  to  introduce  draft 
resolution A/65/L.8. 
Mr. Ali  (Bangladesh):  I  take  this  opportunity  to 

express our sincere condolences to the Government and 
the people of Cambodia for the tragic loss of life in the 
It 
to 
the 
Bosnia 
list  of 
Belarus, 
Bahamas, 
Since  2001, 
the  water  festival 
is  now  my  privilege 
stampede  on  a  bridge  during 
yesterday. 

introduce  draft 
resolution  A/65/L.8,  entitled  “Implementation  of  the 
Declaration and Programme of Action on a Culture of 
Peace”,  dated  29  October  2010,  at  this  year’s  session 
on  behalf  of  the  sponsors.  Since  the  drafting  of  the 
draft  resolution,  the  following  countries  have  joined 
sponsors:  Afghanistan,  Argentina, 
the 
Azerbaijan, 
and 
Herzegovina,  Burkina  Faso,  China,  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  Egypt,  El  Salvador, 
Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mongolia,  Nepal,  Peru,  Qatar, 
Russian  Federation,  Seychelles,  Singapore,  Sri  Lanka, 
Sudan, Turkey and Viet Nam. 

this  draft  resolution  has  been 
submitted  and  adopted  each  year  by  consensus.  That 
shows the commitment of the entire global community 
to making the world safe for future generations. Here, 
let me quote from the statement delivered by our Prime 
Minister,  Sheikh  Hasina,  at  this  year’s  general  debate 
of the United Nations: 

“Our  unflinching  commitment  to  peace  finds 
expression 
in  our  annual  flagship  Assembly 
resolution  on  the  culture  of  peace.  Recent  years 
record  of 
have 
sponsorships  because  of 
to 
International  Mother  Language  Day.  Ever  since 
the Day was adopted by UNESCO in recognition 
of  the  language  martyrs  who  gave  their  lives  in 
1952 for Bangla, their mother tongue, it has been 
celebrated  throughout  the  world  with  growing 
fervour every year.” (A/65/PV.17, p. 17) 

Given  that  backdrop,  it  is  important  to  continue 
dialogue  among  civilizations  and  to  create  a  mindset 
and environment of tolerance, respect for diversity and 
cultural values, since most conflicts and wars begin at 
the  level  of  the  heart.  It  is  therefore  necessary  to 
solidify  and  strengthen  a  sense  of  tolerance  and 
sensitivity, and a strong relationship between different 
cultures, ethnicities, languages and civilizations for the 
betterment  of  all.  In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to 
mention  Bangladesh’s  modest 
the 
International  Decade  for  a  Culture  of  Peace  and 
Non-violence  for  the  Children  of  the  World  (2001-
2010)  (resolution  53/25).  Bangladesh  will  continue  to 
play a constructive role in that area. 
extraordinary 
initiative, 
reference 
shown 
an 
20 

10-64830 
in 
(resolution  53/243).  Bangladesh  had 



The culture of peace is a set of values, attitudes, 
modes  of  behaviour  and  ways  of  life  that  reject 
violence and prevent conflicts through dialogue among 
individuals, groups and nations. We firmly believe that 
a  world  order  informed  by  a  culture  of  peace  is 
conducive to the attainment of our development goals, 
including the Millennium Development Goals. We see 
great  value  in  the  principles  of  tolerance,  respect  for 
diversity,  democracy  and  understanding.  Those  ideals 
were  endorsed  by  Member  States 
the  1999 
Declaration and Programme of Action on a Culture of 
Peace 
the 
privilege of steering that process. 

As  we  come  to  the  end  of  the  International 
Decade  for  a  Culture  of  Peace,  we  should  start  taking 
stock  of  what  we  have  achieved  since  it  began.  I 
believe that that 10-year exercise has had some impact 
on  our  psyche  in  making  a  peaceful  world  for  all, 
especially for the children of the future, and that in the 
days  ahead  we  should  focus  on  implementation.  The 
Programme  of  Action  enjoys  universal  support.  I 
sincerely believe that the draft resolution before us will 
advance  a  culture  of  peace 
in  eight  areas  of 
cooperation. 

One of the areas that should be stressed is that of 
raising  public  awareness  and  disseminating  public 
information  about  a  culture  of  peace. The  Department 
of  Public 
launch  a  special 
information  strategy  for 
that 
purpose,  we  believe 
the  Department  needs 
adequate resources at its disposal. At the national level, 
individual Governments can work to promote a culture 
of peace, using both the print and electronic media, in 
collaboration with the relevant ministries. 

Proper  coordination  among  the  various  United 
Nations agencies is vital. In particular, we welcome the 
fact that the UNESCO Executive Board will provide a 
specific  budget 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  (PBC)  to  reflect  a  culture 
of  peace  strategy  through  relevant  programmes  of 
action  at  the  country  level.  As  the  coordinator  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  caucus 
the 
Commission, we have raised the subject repeatedly, all 
the more so since the NAM Summits have endorsed it. 

We wish to express our profound gratitude to all 
the  stakeholders  who  have  contributed,  and  are 
contributing,  to  the  promotion  of  a  culture  of  peace. 
Special  thanks  go  to  UNESCO,  the  lead  agency  in 
that  end.  We  call  on 
its  promotion.  For 
Information  should 
(NAM)  on 
that 
to 
A/65/PV.52
In 
the  new 
carrying  out  programmes  promoting  the  idea  all  over 
the  world.  Our  sincere  thanks  also  go  to  the  non-
governmental  organizations  and  members  of  civil 
society  who  are  taking  the  idea  of  a  culture  of  peace 
around the world. We commend the submission of the 
Civil  Society  Report  on  the  Decade  for  a  Culture  of 
Peace,  in  particular  the  role  of  the Working  Group  on 
the  Culture  of  Peace  at  the  United  Nations.  In  that 
quest, academics and the media also have an important 
role  to  play.  We  need  to  involve  young  people  and 
children  in  the  process. We  should  first  listen  to  them 
and  then  take  appropriate  measures  for  the  betterment 
of their lives. 

There have been some changes in this year’s draft 
resolution  on  the  implementation  of  the  Declaration 
and  Programme  of Action  on  a  Culture  of  Peace.  We 
have  added  three  new  preambular  paragraphs  and  one 
new  paragraph,  as  well  as  amending  five  other 
paragraphs. 
fourteenth  preambular 
paragraph,  we  welcome  the  summary  report  of  the 
United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural 
Organization High Panel on Peace and Dialogue among 
Cultures, convened by UNESCO’s Director-General on 
18 February, as contained in document A/65/299. In the 
new  seventeenth  preambular  paragraph,  we  encourage 
the  continued  and  increasing  efforts  and  activities  on 
the  part  of  civil  society  organizations  throughout  the 
world  aimed  at  advancing  the  culture  of  peace  as 
envisaged in the Programme of Action on a Culture of 
Peace. 

Of  the  five  amended  paragraphs,  paragraph  1 
states that the objective of the effective implementation 
of the Programme of Action on a Culture of Peace is to 
strengthen further the global movement for a culture of 
peace  following  the  observance  of  the  International 
Decade  for  a  Culture  of  Peace  and  Non-violence  for 
the Children of the World (2001-2010), and calls on all 
concerned to give renewed attention to that objective. 
Amended  paragraph  11  welcomes  the  efforts 

the  United  Nations  Educational, 
undertaken  by 
Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization  to  continue  to 
enhance  communication  and  outreach, 
including 
through  its  culture  of  peace  website,  along  with  its 
efforts  to  coordinate  and  implement  its  activities  to 
promote  the  objectives  of  the  International  Decade  at 
the regional and global levels. 

Bangladesh 
the 
of 
father  of  our  nation, 
independence 
Immediately 
in  1971, 
after 
the 
10-64830 

21 




As 
a  member 
In  conclusion,  I  would 
A/65/PV.52 

Bangabandhu  Sheikh  Mujibur  Rahman,  pursued  a 
policy  of  friendship  towards  all  and  malice  towards 
none  in  the  conduct  of  the  country’s  international 
relations.  That  principle  has  always  guided  us  in  our 
relations  with  countries  around  the  globe,  especially 
our neighbours. Our peacekeepers are assisting United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations,  even  at  the  cost  of 
their  lives  in  difficult  terrain  in  various  parts  of  the 
world  in  the  simple  pursuit  of  peace.  They  also  carry 
the idea of the culture of peace in their hearts and are 
putting the idea into action. 

of 
the  United  Nations 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  we  are  discharging  our 
responsibilities  there  with  those  same  ideas  in  mind. 
We  believe  that  a  culture  of  peace  holds  the  key  to 
sustainable  peace  in  post-conflict  societies.  Even  in 
societies that are enjoying peace or apparent peace, we 
have  to  nurture  that  idea,  so  that  no  one  can  even 
consider violating the peace. 

to  extend  our 
profound  gratitude  to  all  the  Member  States  that  have 
shown  their  solidarity  by  co-sponsoring  this  annual 
draft  resolution  over  the  last  10  years.  Last  year,  we 
had as many as 118 sponsors, and I hope this year the 
number  of  sponsors  will  be  even  higher. The  increase 
in the number of sponsors in each successive year has 
been a matter of great encouragement to the delegation 
of Bangladesh. 

In  view  of  the  time  constraints,  the  current  draft 
resolution  was  not  able  to  enjoy  the  endorsement  of 
more  sponsors.  I  would  request  my  colleagues  from 
other  Missions  to  co-sponsor  the  draft  resolution  by 
providing their valuable endorsement to it now. 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

take  action  on  draft  resolution  A/65/L.8,  entitled 
“Implementation of the Declaration and Programme of 
Action  on  a  Culture  of  Peace”.  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/65/L.8? 

Draft resolution A/65/L.8 was adopted (resolution 
65/11). 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  has  thus 

concluded  this  stage  of  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 15. 
like 

22 

the 
the 
this 
item, 
text  of 
In  connection  with 
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Agenda item 73 (continued)
Report of the International Criminal Court 
  Draft resolution A/65/L.13 

The Acting  President:  Members  will  recall  that 

the Assembly  heard  the  debate  on  this  agenda  item  at 
its 39th and 41st meetings on 28 and 29 October 2010, 
respectively. 
the 
Assembly now has before it a draft resolution issued as 
document A/65/L.13. 

Netherlands to introduce draft resolution A/65/L.13. 
Mr. Schaper (Netherlands): I have the honour to 

item  73  draft  resolution 
introduce  under  agenda 
International 
A/65/L.13,  entitled  “Report  of 
Criminal  Court”.  Let  me  begin  by  saying  that,  in 
addition  to  the  85  countries  mentioned  in  document 
A/65/L.13,  which  contains 
the  draft 
resolution, the following countries have indicated their 
wish  to  be  included  as  its  sponsors:  Bangladesh, 
Barbados,  Botswana,  Central  African  Republic, 
Dominica,  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Georgia, 
Japan,  Mauritius,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia, 
Saint  Vincent  and 
the  Grenadines,  Senegal  and 
Uruguay, which brings the total number of sponsors to 
exactly 100. 
the 

International  Criminal  Court,  Judge  Sang-Hyun  Song, 
presented  the  sixth  annual  report  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC)  to  this  body.  Subsequently,  we 
had  a  very  constructive  and  in-depth  debate,  a  few 
elements of which I would like to mention here. 
First,  in  order  to  ensure  the  Court’s  success, 

universal  adherence 
the 
International  Criminal  Court  remains  crucial.  We  are 
therefore  pleased  to  welcome  the  countries  that  have 
recently  become  a  party  to  the  Rome  Statute  — 
Bangladesh,  Seychelles,  Saint  Lucia  and  the  Republic 
of  Moldova.  The  addition  of  those  new  parties  brings 
the total number of States that have ratified or acceded 
to the Rome Statute to 114. It is our sincere hope that 
others will join soon. 

Secondly, the debate on 28 and 29 October made 
it clear once again that the establishment of the Court 
was  the  most  significant  development  of  the  last 
decade  in  our  long  and  ongoing  struggle  to  eradicate 
impunity,  a  struggle  that  still  continues.  Considerable 
On  28  October  2010, 
the  Rome  Statute  of 
the  President  of 
to 
10-64830 
to 
the  debate 
in 
that  crime.  The  participation  of 


attention was given to the landmark event of this year, 
the  Review  Conference  of  the  Rome  Statute,  which 
was  held  from  31  May  to  11  June  in  Kampala.  The 
main  outcome  of  the  Conference  was  the  adoption  of 
amendments to the Rome Statute that sought to define 
the crime of aggression and establish conditions under 
which  the  Court  could  exercise  jurisdiction  with 
respect 
the 
Secretary-General,  who  convened  and  opened  the 
Conference,  and  several  high-level  United  Nations 
officials  served  as  a  powerful  reminder  of  the  strong 
connection between the United Nations and the Court. 
Thirdly, the International Criminal Court’s annual 

report  and 
the  General  Assembly 
underlined the role of the Court in our common efforts 
to build an international community characterized, not 
only  by  the  rule  of  law  and  respect  for  human  rights, 
but  also  by  peace  and  security.  Sustainable  peace 
cannot  be  achieved  if  perpetrators  of  the  most  serious 
crimes are not brought to justice. Peace and justice are 
complementary and both are necessary. 

The fourth element I would like to highlight is a 
fact  that  the  President  of  the  ICC  drew  attention  to, 
namely, that, despite the recent successful arrest of an 
accused,  the  situation  with  respect  to  the  outstanding 
arrest  warrants  is  deeply  troubling.  The  Court  is 
completely 
the 
enforcement  of  its  orders  and  decisions.  If  States  do 
not  provide  the  cooperation  necessary  for  the  Court’s 
functioning in accordance  with their legal obligations, 
it  will  not  be  able  to  fulfil  its  mandate,  and  impunity 
will continue to flourish. 

international 
cooperation 
organizations  and  civil  society  is  essential  to  the 
Court’s  functioning,  not  only  in  relation  to  the  arrest 
and  surrender  of  accused  persons,  but  also  in  relation 
to  the  provision  of  evidence,  the  protection  and 
relocation  of  victims  and  witnesses,  and 
the 
enforcement  of  sentences.  We  are  therefore  pleased 
that  the  United  Nations  has  continued  over  the  past 
year  to  assist  the  Court  in  its  endeavours  through 
implementation  of  the  Relationship  Agreement.  We 
also  welcome  the  assistance  provided  so  far  by  States 
parties  and  non-States  parties  and  call  on  all  States  to 
continue to support the Court’s efforts in that respect. 
Last  but  not  least,  it  was  stressed  during  the 

debate 
its 
independence and its judicial nature. At the same time, 
reliant  on  State  cooperation 
the  hallmark  of 
the  Court 
is 
that 
in 
The 
of 
States, 
A/65/PV.52
justice.  Finally, 
that  judicial  institution  operates  within  a  political 
world,  and  it  needs  States  to  cooperate  with  it  while 
also  respecting,  protecting  and  enhancing  its  judicial 
independence. 

The  draft  resolution  before  us  serves  three  main 
objectives. First, the draft resolution serves to provide 
political support for the International Criminal Court as 
an organization, for its mandate and aims, and for the 
work it is carrying out. Secondly, it serves to underline 
the  importance  of  the  relationship  between  the  Court 
and the United Nations on the basis of the Relationship 
Agreement,  as  both  the  United  Nations  and  the  Court 
have  a  central  role  in  enhancing  the  system  of 
international  criminal 
the  draft 
resolution serves to remind States and international and 
regional  organizations  of  the  need  to  cooperate  with 
the Court in carrying out its tasks. 

The  Netherlands  hopes  that  the  draft  resolution 
will  be  adopted  by  consensus  and  that  it  will  lead  to 
even  greater  support  for  the  International  Criminal 
Court in the fight against impunity and in its attempts 
to hold perpetrators of very serious crimes accountable 
for their actions. 
The Acting  President: We  shall  now  proceed  to 

consider draft resolution A/65/L.13, entitled “Report of 
the  International  Criminal  Court”.  Before  giving  the 
floor to speakers in explanation of vote before the vote, 
may I remind delegations that explanations of vote are 
limited 
to  10  minutes  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats. 
Mr.  Ajawin  (Sudan):  My  delegation  would  like 

to  take  this  opportunity  to  dissociate  itself  from  draft 
resolution A/65/L.13 on the report of the International 
Criminal Court (ICC) for the following reasons. 

Principally,  the  Sudan  is  not  a  member  of  the 
Rome Statute and I would therefore like to remind this 
body of the provisions of the 1969 Vienna Convention 
on  the  Law  of  Treaties,  which  clearly  exempts  States 
that are not party to an international treaty from being 
bound  by  legal  obligations  under  that  treaty.  Having 
carefully  studied 
the 
International  Criminal  Court,  which  covers  the  period 
from 1 August 2009 to 31 July 2010 (A/65/313) and on 
which  the  proposed  draft  resolution  is  based,  my 
delegation  was  greatly  disappointed  at  the  distorted 
information  regarding  my  country  contained  in  that 
report. 
the  sixth  annual  report  of 
10-64830 

23 

the 
We  believe 
A/65/PV.52 


those  unfounded  allegations  are 
baseless,  lack  strong  legal  justification  and  must 
therefore be seen as politically motivated. However, it 
is  precisely 
International  Criminal  Court’s 
partiality  and  its  politicization  and  double  standards 
under  the  guise  of  administering  international  justice 
that  have  made  my  country  adamant  in  refusing  to 
cooperate with the Court. 

The referral of the case of Darfur by the Security 
Council  to  the  Court  was  heavily  influenced  by 
political  considerations  on  the  part  of  some  countries 
and not based on legal reasoning. The Security Council 
is  a  political  organ,  and  it  will  be  fit  to  refer  cases  to 
any  relevant  international  legal  institutions  only  when 
it  has  been  reformed  and  its  composition  is  truly 
reflective  of  the  four  corners  of  the  world,  based  on 
equitable  geographical  representation,  which  include 
granting  Africa  two  permanent  seats  with  all  the 
privileges that come with being a permanent member. 

The  Sudan  played  an  instrumental  role  in  the 
initial  drafting  of  the  Rome  Statute,  which  eventually 
led  to  the  formation  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court,  and  the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute  in  1998. 
The  behaviour  and  practices  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  to  date  are  contrary  to  the  principles, 
objectives and spirit on which the Court was founded. 
It  is  to  be  recalled  that,  during  the  early  stages  of 
establishment  of  the  Court,  my  country  sounded  the 
alarm  about  the  possible  politicization  of  legal  issues 
by  the  Court  and  voiced  concern  that  the  relationship 
between  the  Court  and  the  Security  Council,  in 
accordance  with  article  13  (b)  of  the  Rome  Statute, 
could be used and monopolized by some countries as a 
Trojan  horse  in  order  to  advance  their  own  political 
interests,  with  the  possibility  of  violating  the  norms 
and customs of international law. 

Today,  our  predictions,  made  after  the  initial 
drafting of what became the Rome Statute, have come 
true. The selectivity of justice and the double standards 
shown by the Court in respect of Africa have generated 
condemnation  from  the  highest  political  organ  of  a 
leading regional organization. The Organization of the 
Islamic  Conference,  the Arab  League  and  the African 
union  have 
resolutions 
condemning  the  Court  and  its  Pre-Trial  Chamber  for 
issuing 
arrest  warrant.  Decision 
245 (XIII)  of  the  Assembly  of  the  African  Union 
explicitly and unequivocally states in paragraph 10 that 
African Union member States 
statements 
the 
so-called 
issued 
and 
24 


“shall not cooperate pursuant to the provisions of 
Article 98 of the Rome Statute of the ICC relating 
to  immunities,  for  the  arrest  and  surrender  of 
President Omar El Bashir of the Sudan”. 
to 
It  has  created  the  perception  that  the  Court  is  not  a 
neutral  institution  legally  speaking,  but  is  indeed 
heavily  politicized,  which  therefore  politicizes  the 
concept  of  justice  as  well.  Without  a  shadow  of  a 
doubt, that politicization of the concept of justice will 
eventually  lead  to  the  militarization  of  international 
relations  and  disregard  for  multilateralism,  along  with 
the  erosion  of  the  commitment  to  the  United  Nations 
Charter and the cardinal principles of international law. 
The targeting of some African heads of State and 

other  African  officials  entitled 
jurisdictional 
immunity  is  an  affront  to  the  sovereign  equality  of 
African  States.  That  affront  will  lead  to  injustice  and 
undue  harassment  of  African  dignitaries  and  will 
constrain  the  capability  and  competence  of  African 
States  to  act  as  subjects  of  international  law  with 
international  legal  personalities  that  enable  them  to 
conduct  foreign  affairs  and  participate  in  international 
affairs. 

It  is  of  imperative  importance  to  note  that  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  has,  in  some  instances, 
reaffirmed  the  rights  of  diplomatic  immunity  as  a 
cardinal  principle  of  customary  international  law. 
Nevertheless,  the  Court  is  of  the  contrary  view  with 
regard  to  the  immunity  of  heads  of  State,  which  is 
evident  in  last  year’s  report  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (A/64/356),  in  which  the  Court  stated 
that  the  status  of  the  President  of  the  Republic  of  the 
Sudan, His Excellency Omar Hassan Ahmad Al-Bashir, 
“as Head of a State not party to the Rome Statute had 
no  effect  on  the  Court’s  exercise  of  jurisdiction” 
(para. 15). That statement contradicts the provisions of 
article  98,  paragraph  1,  of  the  Rome  Statute,  which 
states that 

“The  Court  may  not  proceed  with  a  request  for 
surrender  or  assistance  which  would  require  the 
requested  State  to  act  inconsistently  with  its 
obligations  under  international  law  with  respect 
to the State or diplomatic immunity of a person or 
property  of  a  third  State,  unless  the  Court  can 
first obtain the cooperation of that third State for 
the waiver of the immunity.” 
The Court has also blatantly ignored the sovereignty of 
the  Sudanese  State  by  acting  unilaterally  to  waive  the 
10-64830 


President’s immunity before seeking the consent of that 
State, as required under article 98 of the Rome Statute. 

The statement by the Court regarding the exercise 
of its jurisdiction upon an acting head of State without 
obtaining cooperation from the State concerned clearly 
demonstrates the excessive and abusive powers vested 
in the Prosecutor of the Court. The ICC Prosecutor has 
become  a  law  unto  himself  and  even  an  interpreter  of 
the  provisions  of  the  Rome  Statute  according  to  his 
own  wishes,  without  due  consideration  for  the  norms 
and practices of international law, peace and security. 

It is precisely because of that unchecked power of 
the Prosecutor that the ICC is in danger of substituting 
the tyranny of Government for the rule of judges. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  only 

speaker  in  explanation  of  vote  before  the  vote.  The 
Assembly will now take a decision on draft resolution 
A/65/L.13. May I take it that the Assembly decides to 
adopt draft resolution A/65/L.13? 

Draft 
(resolution 65/12). 
The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
its 
resolution  A/65/L.13  was 
the  General  Assembly 
to  conclude 

wish  of 
consideration of agenda item 73? 

It was so decided. 
adopted


Programme of work 
The  Acting  President:  I  should  like  to  consult 

members  regarding  an  extension  for  the  work  of  the 
Second Committee. Members will recall that, at its 2nd  


A/65/PV.52
the 
recommendation  of 
plenary  meeting  on  17  September  2010,  the  General 
Assembly  approved 
the 
General  Committee  that  the  Second  Committee  would 
complete  its  work  by  Tuesday,  23  November  2010. 
However,  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  has 
been  informed  by  the  Chairperson  of  the  Second 
Committee  that  the  Committee  will  not  be  able  to 
finish  its  work  by  today,  23  November  2010.  It  is  my 
understanding  that  the  Committee  will  need  to  meet 
until  Wednesday,  1  December  2010.  May  I  therefore 
take it that the General Assembly agrees to extend the 
work  of  the  Second  Committee  until  Wednesday,  1 
December 2010? 
It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President:  I  would  also  like  to 

inform  members  that  the  consideration  of  agenda 
item 117,  “Implementation  of  the  resolutions  of  the 
United Nations”, and agenda item 118, “Revitalization 
of  the  work  of  the  General Assembly”,  scheduled  for 
Thursday,  2  December  2010,  has  been  postponed  to 
Monday, 6 December 2010. 

I  also  wish  to  remind  delegations  that  they  are 
invited  to  complete  the  survey  of  conference  services 
in order to improve the quality of services provided by 
the Department for General Assembly and Conference 
Management.  The  survey  may  be  accessed  until 
Monday, 13 December 2010 from a number of United 
Nations  websites,  including  the  General  Assembly 
website. More information in this regard can be found 
in the United Nations Journal. 


  The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m. 
10-64830 

25 
