
A/65/PV.10
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

10th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 22 September 2010, 10 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 





  The meeting was called to order at 10.05 p.m. 




High-level plenary meeting as a contribution to the 
2010 International Year of Biodiversity 
Agenda item 20 (continued) 
Sustainable development 
  (f)  Convention on Biological Diversity 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  This  is  the 

closing  plenary  of 
the  high-level  meeting  as  a 
contribution to the International Year of Biodiversity. I 
wish  to  welcome  all  the  high-level  guests  who  have 
joined  us  today.  We  have  had  fruitful  discussions 
throughout the day. 
(spoke in English) 

Today, as a contribution to the International Year 
of Biodiversity, world leaders met for the first time for 
a  high-level  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on 
biodiversity and reaffirmed the political will to reverse 
the alarming  loss of biodiversity occurring throughout 
our planet. I am very pleased to present a summary of 
today’s  meaningful  discussions,  which  I  will  transmit 
to the tenth meeting of the Conference of the Parties to 
the Convention on Biological Diversity, to be held next 
month in Nagoya, Japan. 

First,  Member  States  and  other  participants 
emphasized the importance of biodiversity and healthy 
ecosystems for achieving the Millennium Development 
Goals,  especially  in  poverty  eradication.  They  drew 
attention to the fact that continued biodiversity loss can 
for 
the 
for  biodiversity,  and 
have  a  particularly  adverse  impact  on  the  poor  and 
other populations that depend on such natural resources 
as  fisheries  and  agriculture.  In  order 
to  protect 
biodiversity  and  its  many  services,  including  clean 
water,  medicine  and  a  buffer  against  natural  disasters, 
Member  States  and  other  participants  noted  that  it  is 
important  fully  to  achieve  the  three  objectives  of  the 
Convention on Biological Diversity.  

In this regard, they attached great significance to 
securing  successful  outcomes  at  the  tenth  meeting  of 
the  Conference  of  the  Parties.  That  meeting  will 
address  three  interconnected  issues:  access  to  and 
benefit  sharing  of  genetic  resources,  a  post-2010 
strategic  plan 
international 
implementation  of  biodiversity 
support 
strategies  in  developing  countries.  They  recognized 
that progress on one issue would depend upon progress 
on the other two.  

While  noting  the  progress  made  to  date  towards 
the  negotiation  of  the  draft  protocol  on  access  to  and 
benefit  sharing  of  genetic  resources,  Member  States 
and  other  participants  shared  the  concern  that  some 
issues  are  still  outstanding. They  called  for  a  stronger 
political  impetus  and  flexibility  on  the  part  of  all 
parties in the negotiations to ensure the adoption of an 
effective protocol at the Nagoya meeting. 
The  tenth  meeting  of  the  Conference  of  the 

to 
Parties  will  present  an 
develop  a  post-2010  strategic  plan 
that  contains 
ambitious,  measurable  and  time-bound  biodiversity 
targets  for  2020.  That  plan  would  provide  a  common 
important  opportunity 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-54533 (E) 
*1054533* 

for 

at 
from 
issues, 
terrestrial 
implementation  of 
action  on  biodiversity 
A/65/PV.10 

framework 
the 
international,  regional,  national  and  local  levels  and 
across  various 
species 
protection  to  the  halting  of  ocean  acidification.  If  the 
strategic  plan  is  to  be  translated  into  a  concrete 
outcome,  it  will  need  to  be  integrated  into  national 
biodiversity targets and strategies.  

A decade for biodiversity, as well as the proposed 
South-South  multi-year  plan  of  action,  would  support 
the 
the  new  strategic  plan. 
Furthermore,  noting  the  important  linkage  between 
scientific  knowledge  and  effective  policy-making, 
Member  States  and  other  participants  stressed  the 
importance  of  establishing  an 
intergovernmental 
science-policy platform for biodiversity and ecosystem 
services,  and  welcomed  the  progress  achieved  at  the 
intergovernmental  and  multi-stakeholder  meeting  held 
in  June  2010  in  Busan,  Republic  of  Korea,  and 
facilitated  by 
the  United  Nations  Environment 
Programme. 
The true economic values of biodiversity and the 

ecosystem  services 
it  underpins  are  now  being 
identified to their full extent. Member States and other 
participants 
such 
investigation  continue  as  a  matter  of  priority.  They 
called  for  strengthening  the  biodiversity  and  economy 
nexus  by  incorporating  the  true  values  of  biodiversity 
into 
and 
investments  in  all  sectors,  as  well  as  in  policy  and 
planning processes at all levels. 

The green economy, the economics of ecosystems 
and biodiversity, and payments for ecosystem services 
were  mentioned  as  important  concepts  and  initiatives. 
Member  States  and  other  participants  also  recognized 
that  biodiversity  and  healthy  ecosystems  are  an 
essential  part  of  the  solution  to  the  challenges  of 
climate  change.  They  noted  that  there  are  substantial 
benefits to be gained from the coherent implementation 
three  Rio  conventions,  as  well  as  other 
of 
biodiversity-related 
example, 
initiatives  for  reduced  emissions  from  deforestation 
and  forest  degradation  could  provide  co-benefits  for 
biodiversity  and 
livelihoods.  The  upcoming 
Nagoya  and  Cancún  meetings  later  this  year  and  the 
United  Nations 
Sustainable 
Development 2012 will provide timely opportunities to 
ensure 
related 
conventions are mutually supportive. 
financial  planning 
that  measures 
taken  under 
conventions. 
Conference 
considered 
important 
economic 
theory, 
local 
it 
that 
on 
the 
and 
and 
lack 
scientific 
to  address 
Recognizing 
that  many  countries 
future  presidencies  of 

the 
resources  and  capabilities  effectively  to  implement 
their biodiversity strategies and commitments, Member 
States and participants called for bold action to ensure 
that  these  countries  have  access  to  financial  resources 
and technology transfer. They also called for increased 
capacity-building 
technical 
cooperation.  In  addition,  Member  States  and  other 
participants  emphasized  the  need  to  mobilize  civil 
society  and  the  private  sector.  Indigenous  and  local 
communities,  women  and  youth  should  be  fully 
involved in the implementation of the new biodiversity 
strategic plan.  
Finally,  noting  that  the  Geneva  call  for  action 

issued  by  past  and 
the 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Convention  on 
Biological  Diversity,  Member  States  and  participants 
noted  that  if  current  rates  of  biodiversity  loss  are  not 
reversed, there will be drastic consequences for human 
societies.  They  recognized  the  need  for  coordinated 
and urgent action across all sectors of Government and 
society 
the  underlying  drivers  of 
biodiversity loss. There is a need to reform our means 
of  production,  consumption  and  economic  growth  to 
ensure  that  we  live  within  the  ecological  limits. 
Together,  we  can  find  ways  to  protect  Mother  Earth 
and live in harmony with nature. 
(spoke in French) 

Republic of Venezuela. 
Ms.  Salerno  Caldera  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

country, 
Venezuela) 
Mr. President,  wishes  to  recognize  your  efforts  in 
putting together today’s talks. We have a question. Is it 
possible  to  modify  the  language  of  the  summary  you 
have  just  read  out?  We  feel  that  the  paragraph 
concerning the platform on technical services is not an 
exact 
and 
presentations.  May  I  ask  you  clarify  this  so  that  I  can 
then explain further? 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  We  note  the 

statement made by the representative of the Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela. My summary does not mention 
the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  so  I 
would  be  perfectly  happy  to  listen  to  any  additional 
comment she may wish to make now. I might add that 
the  summary  I  read  out  is  a  summary  of  the  debate 
I  call  on  the  representative  of  the  Bolivarian 
Spanish):  My 
reflection  of 
conversations 
today’s 
(spoke 
in 
the 
For 
2 

10-54533 


prepared by those who organized it; it is not an official 
document of the General Assembly. 
Ms.  Salerno  Caldera  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

Venezuela)  (spoke 
in  Spanish):  The  question  of 
biological diversity is a substantive and essential issue 
comprised  of  many,  highly  technical  components.  At 
this time, the issue of the platform is on the substantive 
agenda  of  the  discussions  to  take  place  at  the  Nagoya 
Conference. 

that  Member  States 
stressed the importance of establishing a platform. That 
prejudges  the  results  of  the  Nagoya  Conference  and 
does  not  reflect  the  fact  that  various  States,  including 
my  country,  pointed  out  that,  first,  the  Committee 
concluded that the question had not been addressed and 
we  believed  that  it  should  have  been;  and  that,  

The  summary  mentions 
A/65/PV.10
secondly, the text does not reflect our position that not 
all  Member  States  have  recognized  the  importance  of 
establishing such a platform.  

My  country  in  particular  would  like  to  know 
whether  it  would  be  possible  to  amend  the  language. 
We  believe  that  it  would  be  better  to  say  that  some 
States  considered  the  importance  of  establishing  a 
platform.  In  that  way,  the  interactive  debate  we  held 
today would not be prejudging the outcome of Nagoya. 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

takes note of the statement made by the representative 
of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. As I said, the 
substantive discussion will take place in Nagoya. 

the  end  of  our 
deliberations. I thank all participants for their patience, 
and especially those who have stayed to the very end.  



The meeting rose at 10.20 p.m. 
We  have  now  come 
to 
10-54533 

3 
