
A/65/PV.30
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

30th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 14 October 2010, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 



The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m. 




the  work  of 
taking 
and 
Agenda item 7 
Organization of work, adoption of the agenda and 
allocation of items 

  Second report of the General Committee 
(A/65/250/Add.1) 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  The  General 

Committee  decided  to  recommend  to  the  General 
Assembly  that  an  additional  item  entitled  “Follow-up 
to the high-level meeting held on 24 September 2010; 
the  Conference  on 
revitalizing 
Disarmament 
forward  multilateral 
disarmament  negotiations”  be  included  in  the  agenda 
of the current session under heading G (Disarmament). 

May  I  take  it  that  the  General Assembly  decides 
to include this item in the agenda of the current session 
under heading G? 
It was so decided. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  The  General 

Committee further decided to recommend that the item 
be allocated to the plenary and to the First Committee, 
on the understanding that, in the plenary, the Assembly 
would  hold  the  debate  on  the  item  and  the  First 
Committee would consider any proposals on the item. 

May I take it that the General Assembly decides to 
allocate  this  item  to  the  plenary  and  to  the  First 
Committee, on the understanding that, in the plenary, the 
Assembly will hold the debate on the item and the First 
Committee will consider any proposals on the item? 
It was so decided. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  The  item 

entitled  “Follow-up  to  the  high-level  meeting  held  on 
24  September  2010;  revitalizing  the  work  of  the 
Conference  on  Disarmament  and 
taking  forward 
multilateral  disarmament  negotiations”  becomes  item 
162 on the agenda of the current session. 
The  Chairman  of  the  First  Committee  will  be 

informed  of  the  decision  just  taken  by  the  General 
Assembly. 

The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  its 
consideration  of  the  second  report  of  the  General 
Committee. 

Agenda items 62 and 12 
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: progress 
in implementation and international support 
  (a)  New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 

progress in implementation and  
international support 
  Reports of the Secretary-General (A/65/165 and 
A/65/167) and notes by the Secretary-General 
(A/65/62 and Add.1) 
  (b)  Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/65/152) 










This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-58121 (E) 
*1058121* 




A/65/PV.30 

2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/65/210) 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  Our  debate 

today will be devoted to several topics of importance to 
Africa.  I  believe  that  this  is  particularly  opportune.  I 
hope  that  our  discussion,  along  with  the  excellent 
reports  prepared  by  the  Secretariat,  will  form  part  of 
the  follow-up  to  the  summit  on  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. It  is  essential that  throughout the 
sixty-fifth  session  our  discussions  should  reflect  the 
importance  of  these  themes,  in  order  to  maintain  the 
political  momentum  for  the  achievement  of  the  Goals 
that  was  generated  at  the  summit.  Today  we  have  a 
good opportunity to do this. 

Achieving the goals of the Global Malaria Action 
Plan  has  an  impact  on  almost  all  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  The  issue  is  critical:  every  year, 
nearly a million people fall victim to malaria, mainly in 
Africa,  and this is simply unacceptable. It is therefore 
important  to  support  the  efforts  of  the  Roll  Back 
Malaria  Partnership  and  of  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight 
AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria,  which  provide  good 
examples  of  partnership  and  coordination  between  the 
various bodies and institutions of the public and private 
sectors which are active in this field. 
With  regard  to  the  New  Partnership  for Africa’s 

Development,  established  in  2001,  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  on 
implementation  offers  a 
number of positive elements: progress has been made, 
overall,  in  implementing  the  Partnership,  and  the 
establishment  of  a  new  planning  and  coordination 
mechanism  should 
increased  managerial 
efficiency. 

However,  the  report  stresses  the  need  to  devote 
increased  financial  and  technical  resources  to  certain 
priority areas — particularly agriculture — in order to 
increase  the  potential  of  African  countries  to  achieve 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  need  to  do 
more  for  the  empowerment  of  women  and  for  the 
establishment of a business climate more favourable to 
the development of the private sector is also stressed. 

I  invite  the  Assembly  to  consider  and  comment 
on  all  the  conclusions  and  recommendations  in  the 
report  of  the  Secretary-General.  I  believe  that  it  is 
important to stress that the recommendations call for a 
lead 
its 
to 
to 
a 
to 
ensure 
options 
in  order 
and  makes 
the  monitoring  process 
true spirit of partnership, since they are addressed both 
to development partners and to African countries. 

The  same  spirit  is  found  in  the  proposal  for  an 
improved  monitoring  mechanism 
review 
commitments  for  Africa’s  development.  Five  years 
before the deadline of 2015 for the achievement of the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  increased  monitoring 
is  essential 
that  mutual 
accountability is not a meaningless phrase and that the 
commitments  undertaken  have  concrete  effects  for 
disadvantaged populations. 

The  proposed  mechanism  is  based  on  existing 
processes  —  this  should  be  stressed  —  and  its  value 
added will derive primarily from leveraging the political 
authority and legitimacy of the General Assembly. 
The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  describes 

number 
of 
various 
institutional 
recommendations  concerning  possible 
is 
arrangements,  whether 
placed under the authority of the General Assembly or 
under that of the Economic and Social Council. I invite 
you  to  share  your  views  on  the  various  options 
proposed.  Resolution  63/1  calls  for  the  establishment 
of  an  improved  review  mechanism  during  the  sixty-
fifth session. It is my hope — and I promise to do my 
utmost  —  that  real  progress  will  be  made  in  this 
regard. 
reports, 

particularly 
importance  of  partnerships,  are 
reflected in the report of the Secretary-General  on the 
implementation  of  the  recommendations  contained  in 
the report on the causes of conflict and the promotion 
of  durable  peace  and  sustainable  development  in 
Africa. 

Going  forward,  this  in-depth  report  stresses  that 
certain areas require increased attention and that during 
the  decades  to  come  some  aspects  will  constitute  real 
challenges,  particularly  small-scale  conflicts  within 
States triggered by the exclusion of significant portions 
of 
in  political 
institutions and from access to economic resources. 

The  activities  of  the  United  Nations  will  focus 
increasingly  on  the  question  of  social  justice.  The 
report calls on the United Nations to acknowledge the 
limitations of its action and the need to cooperate and 
better  coordinate  with  regional  organizations,  local 
governments, civil society and the private sector. 
the  population  from  participation 
Many  aspects 
two 
raised 
in 
the 
the 
2 

10-58121 
of 
in 
A/65/PV.30
rights 
Mechanism and the Comprehensive Africa Agriculture 
Development Programme. In this context, we welcome 
the recent embedding of the NEPAD programme within 
the structure of the African Union and its Commission. 

The  promotion  of  democratic  and  transparent 
systems  of  government  and  respect  for  human  rights 
and  fundamental  freedoms  are  key  components  of  the 
Joint Africa-European  Union  Strategy.  The  aim  of  the 
partnership in this area is to facilitate an open, broad-
based dialogue on all pertinent issues, including human 
rights  and  the  full  enjoyment  of  such  rights  by  all 
women, men and children. Democracy and democratic 
governance must form part of this dialogue, too. 

Within  the  framework  of  this  partnership,  the 
European  Union  will  soon  launch  with  our  African 
partners a joint platform for dialogue on governance, to 
strengthen  the  Africa-European  Union  dialogue  on  a 
number of key issues regarding democratic governance 
and human rights. 

Here,  one  issue  that  I  would  like  to  draw 
particular  attention  to  is  the  situation  of  women  in 
Africa.  Women’s 
are 
fundamental  for  peacebuilding,  economic  growth, 
development  and  well-being,  and  there  are  now  a 
number  of  continental  initiatives  under  way  to  do 
something  with  more  impact  in  these  areas,  including 
the  ongoing  Africa-UNiTE  campaign  to  end  violence 
against women and girls. 

to  a  strong 
partnership  for  development  in  Africa,  the  European 
Union  recently  reaffirmed  its  commitments  to  reach  a 
collective  official  development  assistance  target  of 
0.7 per  cent  of  gross  national 
income  by  2015, 
channelling  at  least  50  per  cent  of  its  collective  aid 
increases to Africa. 

The  European  Union  also  continues  to  work  on 
improving coherence among EU policies in the areas of 
resource mobilization and more effective development 
assistance. 

Trade  is  a  prerequisite  for  economic  growth  and 
sustainable  efforts  against  poverty.  Together  we  must 
continue  promoting  a  market-oriented  world  trading 
system.  Access  for  African  goods  and  services  to 
international  markets  needs 
improved.  A 
successful conclusion of the Doha Round is crucial and 
remains  a  top  priority  for  the  European  Union.  The 
As  part  of  our  commitment 
and  opportunities 
to  be 
I  hope 
that 
importance 
fundamental 
the  countries  of 
Despite  many  unresolved  challenges 



today’s  debate  will  make  a 
constructive contribution to those various issues, which 
are 
for  Africa’s 
development. 
Mr.  Charlier  (Belgium):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak on behalf of the European Union. The candidate 
countries  Turkey,  Croatia  and  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia; 
the 
Stabilization  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidates  Albania,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Serbia 
and Montenegro; as well as the Republic of Moldova, 
align themselves with this statement. 

the 
aftermath of the global financial crisis, Africa has over 
recent  years  demonstrated  impressive  progress  in  the 
areas  of  peace,  political  governance  and  economic 
growth.  But  Africa,  like  no  other  continent,  remains 
heavily affected by the challenges of food security and 
climate change. 

The Joint Africa-European Union Strategy agreed 
in  2007  forms  the  basis  of  our  steadily  expanding 
cooperation.  The  upcoming 
third  Africa-European 
Union  Summit,  to  be  held  in  Libya  on  29  and  
30  November,  will  build  on  the  political  framework 
provided by the Joint Africa-European Union Strategy 
and add fresh impetus to our future cooperation. 
the  European  Union’s 

partnership with Africa is the continent’s responsibility 
for  its  own  development.  Similarly,  this  is  the  core 
principle  of  the  African  Union’s  socio  economic 
programme. 

Support  from  the  international  community  must 
be  aimed  at  helping  African  institutions  and  African 
countries  develop 
to  promote 
continental,  regional  and  national  projects  and  to 
mobilize  the  necessary  resources  for  the  priorities 
identified. Our aim is to support Africa’s own political 
and  economic  integration  agenda,  through  regional 
trade  and  political  partnership,  and  to  strengthen  the 
links between regional economic communities. 

The  European  Union  recognizes  the  added  value 
of  the  African  Union  and  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  in  the  definition  of 
continental  projects  and  as  monitor  of  commitments 
towards African development needs, including in such 
areas as governance and agriculture, where NEPAD has 
taken 
the  African  Peer  Review 
A  basic  premise  of 
the 
lead  with 
their 
capacities 
10-58121 

3 
to  seize 

that 
However,  as 
the  WHO 
treatment  and 
insecticide  can  achieve 
the  business  opportunities 
A/65/PV.30 

ability 
international trade offers also needs to be enhanced. 

Health in Africa remains another major challenge 
for  us  all.  Africa  continues  to  face  a  huge  burden  of 
potentially  preventable  and  treatable  diseases,  which 
cause  avertable  deaths  and  untold  suffering,  while 
blocking  economic  development  and  damaging  the 
continent’s social fabric. 

We know that malaria — alongside other diseases 
such  as  HIV/AIDS  —  inflicts  a  heavy  burden  on 
Africa. But, as the World Health Organization (WHO) 
report  transmitted  by  the  Secretary-General  notes, 
significant  progress  has  been  made  in  the  global  fight 
against  malaria  in  recent  years,  including  in  Africa. 
Countries  such  as  Rwanda,  Eritrea  and  Zambia  have 
shown  how  long-lasting  insecticidal  mosquito  nets, 
indoor 
effective  artemisinin-based 
spraying  with 
impressive 
results.  A  clear  focus  on  effective 
interventions, 
adequate  funding  and  political  determination  has 
proved to be successful. 

report  also  notes, 
significant  financial  gaps  remain  despite  financial 
commitments to malaria control increasing fivefold over 
the period 2003-2009, with a particularly large increase 
last  year. As  the  world’s  largest  donor  both  in  general 
and  in  the  health  sector  in  particular,  the  European 
Union will continue to lead the global efforts to sustain 
financial  commitments  in response  to  malaria,  and  will 
work through national Governments, the Global Fund to 
Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria,  the  United 
Nations  system  and  other  relevant  organizations  and 
mechanisms, including non-governmental organizations. 
In this regard, the European Union welcomes the 

$11.7  billion 
the  Global  Fund 
replenishment conference for the next three years, with 
the European Union and its member States representing 
over 30 per cent of this commitment. 
Combating  diseases  such  as  malaria,  through 

strengthened national health systems, will, in our view, 
be one of the most effective ways to alleviate poverty 
and  promote  equitable  and  sustainable  economic 
progress.  We  need  to  further  invest  in  the  health 
workforce and build capacity for prevention, treatment 
and  care,  which  will  also  help  us  accelerate  progress 
towards achievement of Millennium Development Goal 
(MDG) 4, concerning child health, MDG 5, concerning 
maternal  health,  and  MDG  6,  concerning  combating 
raised 
through 
To  conclude, 
the  European  Union 
HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  other  diseases.  The  European 
Union  continues 
to  work  closely  with  African 
Governments to enable them to fulfil their commitment 
to  allocate  15  per  cent  of  State  budgets  to  health,  in 
line with the 2001 Abuja Declaration. 

is  fully 
committed  to  supporting  African  countries  and  their 
peoples in their quest for peace, democratic governance 
and  human 
rights  and  sustainable  development. 
Partnership  in  these  fields  is  a  contribution  to  peace 
and  stability  in  Africa,  too,  because  it  addresses  the 
root  causes  of  conflict.  The  European  Union  will 
continue  to  support  the  positive  developments  of  the 
last decade. 

Despite  slow  progress  in  many  areas,  the  recent 
High-level  Meeting  on  the  MDGs  showed  us  that 
achieving  the  MDGs  in  Africa  is  possible  if  we 
accelerate our efforts for the final stretch leading up to 
2015. 
Mr.  Al-Saadi  (Yemen):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  (G-77)  and  China 
on agenda item 62. 

The year 2010 has been a remarkable one for the 
African  Union  (AU)  and  its  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD).  It  will  be  recalled 
that  extensive  efforts  to  integrate  NEPAD  into  the 
structures  and  processes  of  the AU  finally  culminated 
in  the  decision  of  the  fourteenth AU  summit,  held  in 
Addis  Ababa,  Ethiopia,  to  formally  establish  the 
NEPAD  Planning  and  Coordinating  Agency  as  a 
technical body of the African Union. 

As  mandated  by  the  African  Union  Assembly 
decision, the Agency’s role as a planning unit will be to 
aim  to  facilitate  and  coordinate  implementation  of 
continental  and  regional  programmes,  and  mobilize 
resources  for  the  implementation  of  Africa’s  priority 
programmes  and  projects.  The  Agency’s  role 
in 
conducting  and  coordinating  research  and  knowledge 
management will be to create an enabling environment 
to  achieve  food  security  and  agricultural  development 
in the next five years. 

We  have  had  the  opportunity  this  year  to  reflect 
on 
the  situation  and  challenges  of 
the  African 
continent.  The  High-level  Meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly  on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs), held from 20 to 22 September, was one such 
4 

10-58121 
effectively 
implemented 


occasion, when the Group of 77 and China stressed the 
need for the international community to be 

“fully committed to assisting those countries that 
are lagging behind, especially the least developed 
countries,  the  landlocked  developing  countries 
and the small island developing States, as well as 
Africa.” (A/65/PV.4, p. 55) 

In  their  thirty-fourth  Ministerial  Declaration,  the 
Ministers  for  Foreign Affairs  of  the  member  States  of 
the  Group  of  77  and  China  recognized  the  special 
needs  of  Africa,  and  called  for  the  full  and  timely 
implementation  of  all  commitments  so  as  to  enable 
African  countries  to  achieve  the  MDGs  by  2015.  The 
Ministers further recalled the commitment of all States 
to  establish  a  monitoring  mechanism  to  follow  up  on 
all  commitments  by 
international  community 
related  to  the  development  of  Africa,  as  contained  in 
the  political  declaration  on  Africa’s  development 
needs,  and  stressed  that  all  commitments  to  Africa 
should  be 
and  given 
appropriate  follow-up  by  the  international  community 
and Africa itself. 
importance  of 

accelerating sustainable broad-based economic growth, 
which is pivotal to bringing Africa into the mainstream 
of  the  global  economy.  To  that  end,  they  underscored 
the  urgent  need  to  address  the  special  needs  of Africa 
based  on  a  partnership  among  equals,  and  underlined 
the  need 
resources, 
technology  transfer  and  capacity-building  to  African 
countries, 
sustainable 
development. 

Today,  five  years  from  2015,  the  target  date  for 
achieving the MDGs, Africa unfortunately remains the 
only continent not on track to achieve the Millennium 
Development Goals by that target date. 

had 
tremendous  negative  effects  on  African  economies, 
increasing  the  level  of  poverty  and  unemployment  on 
the continent as well as reversing the progress African 
countries  have  made  in  recent  years.  The  global 
financial  and  economic  crises  had  a  profound  adverse 
impact  on  African  development.  The  poor  African 
countries,  with  their  high  dependence  on  agricultural 
commodity  exports,  are  among  the  most  adversely 
impacted by the failure of the global trade negotiations 
and  the  continued  application  of  massive  subsidies  by 
developed countries. 
to  provide  new  additional 
The  Ministers  underlined 
economic 
financial 
support 
crisis 
their 
The 
and 
to 
the 
the 
and 
10-58121 

A/65/PV.30
and 
This 
entails 
situation 
and 
for 
obviously 
enhancement  of 
development, 
further 

the  global 
strengthening 
partnership 
vigorous 
implementation  of  all  development  commitments 
without any further delay, in particular implementation 
of  the  promises  that  have  been  made  in  support  of 
Africa. Today,  inadequacy  of  resources  is  widely  seen 
as the main constraint on African development. Despite 
serious,  sincere  and  consistent  efforts  by  the  African 
countries to implement NEPAD, Africa is still far from 
realizing  the  levels  of  support  required  under  the 
Partnership. If we are to succeed in eradicating poverty 
and  hunger  in Africa,  urgent  and  concerted  action  by 
developed countries and the international community is 
needed. 
African  countries  have  taken  concrete  steps  to 

implement 
for  Africa’s 
Development,  through  the  development  of  sectoral 
policy frameworks, the design of specific projects and 
the  establishment  of  expenditure  targets  in  NEPAD 
priority areas. Through NEPAD, African countries have 
fundamentally changed the development paradigm. The 
narrow  approach  of  the  Poverty  Reduction  Strategy 
Papers has been expanded to include a comprehensive 
and  holistic  approach  to  development  through African 
ownership.  In  fact,  most  African  countries  now  have 
their  own  national  development  strategies.  These 
efforts  require  an  enabling  national  and  international 
environment  conducive  to  growth  and  development 
with the participation of the multi-stakeholders. 

heads of State and Government said: 

In the 2010 world summit outcome document the 
the  New  Partnership 
“more  attention  should  be  given 
to  Africa, 
especially  those  countries  most  off  track  to 
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  by 
2015.  Progress  has  been  made  in  some  African 
countries,  but  the  situation  in  others  remains  a 
grave  concern,  not  least  because  the  continent  is 
among  the  hardest  hit  by  the  financial  and 
economic  crisis.  …  However,  [aid]  still  lags 
behind  the  commitments  that  have  been  made. 
We  therefore  strongly  call  for  the  delivery  of 
those commitments.” (resolution 65/1, para. 33) 
Those commitments include doubling aid to Africa. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  are  of  the  view  that 
resources  must  be  mobilized  for  African  States,  the 
regional economic communities and the African Union 
in order to support efforts to achieve the MDGs within 
5 
reiterate 
to 
to 
the  urgent 
follow  up  on 
the  urgent  need 
implementation  of 
towards  sustaining  development 
A/65/PV.30 

the  framework  of  national  development  programmes 
and  to  implement  NEPAD. We  have  taken  note  of  the 
outcome  document  of  the  MDGs  summit,  and  look 
forward 
the 
commitments that were stated. 

In  this  regard,  the  Group  of  77  and  China  once 
again 
to  establish  a 
monitoring  mechanism 
all 
commitments  related  to  the  development  of Africa,  as 
contained  in  the  review  process  of  the  political 
declaration  on Africa’s  development  needs  (resolution 
63/1)  and  as  recommended  in  the  Secretary-General’s 
report.  In  our  view,  the  process  will  be  under  the 
auspices of the General Assembly. The implementation 
of the commitments of African Governments and their 
development  partners  will  be  reviewed,  beginning  at 
the sixty-sixth session of the General Assembly. 

in 
Africa  requires,  among  other  things,  writing  off  the 
insupportable  debt  of  African  countries  by  both 
bilateral and multilateral donors. Reaching the target of 
reducing  poverty  in  half  by  2015  would  require  a 
growth rate, on average, of 7 per cent to 8 per cent per 
annum. To achieve that rather high rate of growth, we 
call  for  a  number  of  measures  towards  mobilizing 
external  resources. We  emphasize  the  imperative  need 
for  increased  official  development  assistance,  which, 
of  course,  needs  to  be  combined  with  a  set  of  other 
policy  measures  to  advance  developing  countries  in 
Africa. 

As  far  as  the  environment  is  concerned,  we 
recognize 
in  an 
interrelated  and  mutually  supportive  manner  the  three 
dimensions of sustainable development. In this regard, 
the  G-77  and  China  strongly  call  for  strengthened 
measures to enhance assistance to the African countries 
in  their  fight  against  land  degradation,  drought  and 
desertification by multilateral and bilateral donors and 
through public and private partnership. 
Finally, the Group is pleased that United Nations 

agencies  have  organized 
into  various 
clusters in line with NEPAD priority areas as a way to 
increase  coordination  and  cooperation  in  their  work 
related  to  NEPAD.  Additionally,  a  number  of  these 
agencies play a critical role in supporting the work  of 
NEPAD,  especially  in  areas  such  as  agriculture,  trade 
and market access, infrastructure development, science 
and technology, among others. We welcome the United 
importance  of  addressing 
Progress 
the 

into 
Africa, 
to  mainstream  NEPAD 
the  ancient  home  of  man, 
Nations  present  support  for Africa,  but  we  call  on  the 
United  Nations 
its 
normative and operational activities. 
Mr. Talbot (Guyana): I have the honour to speak 

on  behalf  of  the  member  States  of  the  Caribbean 
Community  (CARICOM)  in  this  debate  on  the  New 
Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD). 

CARICOM  welcomes  this  opportunity  to  renew 
solidarity with the cause of peace and development for 
the  people  of Africa. The  people  of  the  Caribbean  are 
linked to our  brothers and  sisters in Africa by age-old 
bonds of history and culture, by common struggles and 
shared  aspirations.  Our  Community  maintains  an 
abiding  interest  in  the  quest  of  the African  people  for 
socio-economic  transformation  and  the  consolidation 
of durable peace. 

is  now 
emerging as a new frontier of development and human 
progress.  Its  nearly  1  billion  people  deserve  the 
opportunity  to  fully  realize  the  aspirations  they  share 
with all humanity to fulfil the promise of their potential 
in conditions of peace and stability, free from fear and 
from  want.  Many  of  these  aspirations  find  expression 
in  the  New  Partnership,  which  represents  a  collective 
vision  and  a  strategic  framework  for  socio-economic 
development in Africa. 
The support of CARICOM for NEPAD is guided 

by  a  fundamental  respect  for  Africa’s  ownership  and 
leadership  of  its  own  development  process.  This  we 
view  as  a  key  principle  for  development  effectiveness 
and cooperation. 

The Caribbean Community is pleased to note that 
the  story  of  Africa  is  increasingly  one  of  promise. 
Nevertheless, the continent faces the greatest risk in all 
the developing world of falling short in achievement of 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Based on 
current  data,  despite  increased  economic  growth  since 
2000,  there  has  not  been  commensurate  progress  by 
Africa towards attainment of the MDGs, and the region 
is  acknowledged  as  being  the  most  off-track  in  this 
regard. Africa  will  therefore  necessarily  remain  a  key 
focus for development efforts over the next five years. 

Africa  is  also  the  locus  of  the  major  part  of 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding 
efforts. Indeed, the quest for durable peace continues to 
require the most patient and active engagement so that 
the spectre of conflict and division will yield to a new 
themselves 
6 

10-58121 
The  prospects 


paradigm where the vast resources of this great people 
are  used  to  serve  their  welfare,  and  to  lay  the 
foundations for enduring progress. 

for  such  an  outcome  have 
improved  in  recent  times.  CARICOM  is  heartened  by 
the  successes  recorded  in  recent  years  in  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  on  African  soil.  We  are 
encouraged that more African countries have emerged, 
or  are  emerging,  from  conflict,  though  recovery  in 
some instances is fragile and the risk of relapse is still 
very  present.  This  brings  into  obvious  relief  the 
importance  of  United  Nations  peacebuilding  efforts 
and  renders  imperative  the  creation  of  the  necessary 
conditions  both  within  and  outside  the  continent  for 
those efforts to have the best chance of success. 

In  many  ways,  therefore,  Africa  represents  a 
beacon of opportunity for cooperation and partnership. 
The Caribbean Community stands ready to play its part 
as  a  partner  with  Africa  in  the  advancement  of  our 
mutual  objectives.  Even  as  we  speak,  CARICOM 
collaboration  with  Africa  finds  expression  in  the 
political, economic, social, environmental and cultural 
domains,  and  in  forums  such  as  the Africa,  Caribbean 
and  Pacific  Group  of  States,  the  Alliance  of  Small 
Island  States,  the  Group  of  77,  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement  and  the  Commonwealth,  and  indeed  in  the 
United Nations. 

CARICOM  shares  with  Africa  a  commitment  to 
deepening  regional  integration  in  the  context  of  a 
challenging global environment. Our two regions have 
been responding to several of the challenges that have 
emerged  in  the  process  of  strengthening  integration. 
This  endeavour  has  made  it  necessary  that  more 
appropriate structures for regional governance be put in 
place. 

challenges in common, not least in the area of health. 

The  scourge  of  HIV/AIDS  has  had  a  major 
impact  on  our  respective  populations.  Africa  and  the 
Caribbean  respectively  have  the  first  and  second 
highest  incidences  of  HIV  infections  globally.  This 
unwelcome 
an 
opportunity  for  collaboration  and  the  exchange  of 
experience  and  best  practice.  CARICOM  stands  ready 
to learn from our African counterparts and to share our 
own experience in this vital area. For its part, the Pan 
Caribbean Partnership against HIV and AIDS has been 
identified  by  the  Joint  United  Nations  Programme  on 
Africa and the Caribbean face a number of other 
nevertheless 
provides 
reality 
A/65/PV.30
and 
child  health.  Overcoming 
HIV/AIDS  as  best  practice  in  regard  to  a  regional 
response to the pandemic. 

Africa continues to grapple with other challenges 
in  the  area  of  health,  notably  relating  to  malaria  and 
maternal 
those 
challenges  will  be  an  important  catalyst  for  Africa’s 
future progress. 

Our region is grateful for the support extended by 
African  countries  to  the  CARICOM  initiative  on  the 
prevention and control of non-communicable diseases. 
Available  data  establish  this  as  an  area  of  present  and 
growing concern, not only in Africa and the Caribbean, 
but  also  in  other  regions  of  the  world.  Indeed,  it  is  a 
situation  that  warrants  the  immediate  and  concerted 
attention of the international community. 

CARICOM also welcomes the Declaration of the 
Assembly of the African Union on the situation in the 
Republic  of  Haiti,  adopted  during  the  Assembly’s 
fourteenth  ordinary  session,  following  the  devastating 
earthquake that struck our sister CARICOM country in 
January  this  year. We  take  this  opportunity  to  express 
our appreciation for the  active solidarity and financial 
and  material  support  extended  by African  countries  to 
Haiti. 

the  agreement  of 
African  leaders  to  focus  policy  interventions  on  the 
priority areas of agriculture and food security, transport 
and energy development, and climate change. 

The  development  of  agriculture  is  critical  to 
Africa’s  development  prospects.  CARICOM  strongly 
supports and encourages the work currently under way 
to  promote  an African  green  revolution.  We  welcome 
the  commitment  of  African  leaders  to  institute  new 
measures  to  ensure  that  within  five  years  Africa  can 
produce  enough  food  to  feed  its  people.  We  urge  the 
international community to continue and strengthen its 
support for Africa’s efforts to realize those objectives. 

CARICOM  and  Africa  share  a  vital  interest  in 
addressing the challenge posed by climate change. The 
need  for  an  ambitious  and  comprehensive  global 
response is especially urgent for the many countries in 
Africa,  the  Caribbean,  the  Pacific  and  elsewhere  that 
are  on  the  front  lines  of  this  looming  catastrophe. We 
call  for  an  urgent  scaling  up  of  international  action  to 
ensure a credible response to this threat and for speedy 
delivery on fast-start financing. 
takes  note  of 
CARICOM 
10-58121 

7 
to 
the 
the 

In 
this 
to 
improve 
economic 
international  efforts 
strengthen  mechanisms 
The  continued  support  of 
A/65/PV.30 


CARICOM  is  ever  mindful  of  the  complex 
interrelationships  between  governance,  peace  and 
development.  We  support  ongoing  efforts  by  African 
countries 
and  political 
governance,  and 
for 
participation, 
inclusion  and  empowerment  of  all 
segments  of  African  society  in  the  political  and 
development  processes  on 
continent.  We 
acknowledge  the  role  of  the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism  as  an  instrument  for  advancing  good 
governance  in  Africa,  and  note  that  an  increasing 
number  of  African  countries  now  subscribe  to  the 
Mechanism. 

CARICOM  also  believes  that  focused  efforts 
must continue to be made to eliminate the combination 
of  internal  and  external  factors  that  engender  conflict 
and stymie development. 

international 
community  remains  vital  as  Africa  charts  its  way 
forward. 
regard,  CARICOM  encourages 
intensified 
the 
development of Africa. We take note of the Secretary-
General’s report on a monitoring mechanism to review 
commitments towards Africa’s development needs. We 
anticipate  early  agreement  on  such  a  mechanism,  in 
keeping  with  resolution  64/258,  in  order  to  encourage 
the implementation of the commitments, promotion of 
partnership and mutual accountability, the fulfilment of 
pledges 
the 
enhancement of aid effectiveness. 

In  closing,  I  note  that  in  2011  the  international 
community will mark the International Year for People 
of  African  Descent,  with  a  view  to  strengthening 
national  actions  and 
international 
cooperation  for  the  benefit  of  people  of  African 
descent. We  believe  that  this  observance  can  make  an 
important  contribution 
that 
engenders  greater  Afro-optimism  and  help  to  realize 
what  Mr.  Bingu  Wa  Mutharika,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Malawi  and  Chairperson  of  the  African 
Union,  has  described  as  the  “Africa  of  the  new 
beginning”. 
Mr.  Kleib  (Indonesia):  I  have  the  honour  and 

privilege to address the General Assembly on behalf of 
the  10  member  States  of  the Association  of  Southeast 
Asian  Nations 
(ASEAN):  Brunei  Darussalam, 
Cambodia,  Indonesia,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
to  a  paradigm  shift 
regional  and 
development 
to 
support 
of 
assistance, 
and 
the  Philippines, 
Republic,  Malaysia,  Myanmar, 
Singapore, Thailand and Viet Nam. 

ASEAN aligns itself with the statement made by 
the representative of Yemen on behalf of the Group of 
77 and China. 

We  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
insight  and  his  comprehensive  reports  under  agenda 
item  62,  “New  Partnership  for Africa’s  Development: 
progress in implementation and international support”. 

ASEAN  attaches  great  importance  to  friendship 
and cooperation with Africa. Through the decades, the 
relationships  between  ASEAN  and  African  countries 
have  been  consolidated  and  enhanced  in  a  spirit  of 
solidarity,  close  cooperation,  and  mutual  respect. 
Through  cooperation,  both  regions  have  experienced 
significant changes and development for the benefit of 
their peoples. 

ASEAN  strongly  supports  the  implementation  of 
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD), and considers it an important tool to address 
poverty  and  underdevelopment  throughout  the African 
continent. NEPAD has provided a collective vision and 
a strategic socio economic development framework for 
Africa.  It  is  a  home-grown  effort  of  the  African 
continent  to  implement  a  comprehensive  and  holistic 
approach to development. 

ASEAN  welcomes  the  significant  progress  made 
through  the  efforts  of  African  peoples  and  leaders 
towards  some  sectoral  priorities  of  NEPAD  and  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  such  as 
education, health, infrastructure, and agriculture. Such 
progress shows the determination of Africa to promote 
sustainable growth and achieve the MDGs, even in the 
face  of  tremendous  challenges.  It  has  certainly  helped 
to  change  the  image  of  Africa.  Despite  the  valiant 
efforts,  however,  the  hard-won  progress  has  still  not 
reached  expected  levels.  Africa’s  efforts  should  be 
continuously encouraged and supported. 

As emphasized in the Secretary-General’s reports, 
most  African  countries  face  serious  challenges  in 
reaching  the  MDGs,  particularly  in  the  current  fragile 
and  uncertain  global  economic  recovery.  ASEAN 
acknowledges that much needs to be done in support of 
Africa’s implementation with regard to NEPAD and the 
MDGs.  Continued  attention  to,  and  assistance  for, 
Africa  should 
international 
development action plans and programmes. 
remain  a 
focus  of 
8 

10-58121 
food 
agriculture, 
infrastructure, 



In that regard, ASEAN reaffirms its commitment 
to  strengthen  its  cooperation  and  collaboration  with 
Africa.  We  are  ready  to  enhance  the  relationship  and 
partnership  with  Africa  for  the  achievement  of  the 
MDGs  and  sustainable  development.  We  believe  that, 
through  mutual  support,  sharing  of  experiences  and 
best  practices  in  socio  economic  development,  both 
ASEAN and Africa can achieve those objectives. 

ASEAN  has  been  doing  its  utmost  to  promote 
South-South  cooperation  with  African  partners  as  a 
complement  to  North-South  cooperation  in  promoting 
trade, 
security, 
communication and health  care in Africa. ASEAN has 
also  been  working  hard  to  explore  and  implement 
concrete steps to ensure successes for both ASEAN and 
Africa. 

We  believe  that  South-South  cooperation  is  the 
best  strategy  to  promote  an  ASEAN  and  African 
partnership.  South-South  cooperation  in  key  strategic 
areas  such  as  the  Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture 
Development Programme would significantly contribute 
to Africa’s development and integration, in terms of the 
eradication of poverty and hunger, agriculture and rural 
development, as well as mitigation of, and adaptation to, 
climate change. 

Within  the  context  of  scaling  up  efforts  in 
implementing NEPAD and achieving the MDGs, Africa 
has  a  daunting  task.  It  has  to  maintain  peace,  security 
and a politically stable environment. Meanwhile, there 
are  also 
tasks  of  consolidating 
development  strategies;  strengthening  leadership  and 
ownership; 
capacity-development; 
mobilizing more resources at national and international 
levels; and developing strategic partnerships. 
In  that  connection,  the  recent  integration  of 

NEPAD into the structures and processes of the African 
Union,  and  the  establishment  of  the  NEPAD  Planning 
and  Coordinating Agency  (NPCA),  mark  a  significant 
stage in NEPAD’s implementation. It is a good way to 
facilitate 
and 
coordination of the implementation of Africa’s regional 
and  continental  priority  programmes  and  projects, 
promising  better  outcomes  of  Africa’s  development 
process. 

However,  NEPAD  and  NPCA  need  adequate 
human and financial resources to meet their objectives. 
Developed  partners  need  to  do  more  in  response  to 
their needs. 
the  management 
enhancing 
important 
improve 
and 
the 
A/65/PV.30
in 
investment 
agriculture, 
infrastructure, 
implementing  Aid 
climates,  particularly 

Meeting  international  commitments,  particularly 
on  the  essential  issues,  includes  increasing  official 
development  assistance  flows  to  Africa,  especially 
implementing  the  promises  by  the  Group  of  Eight  at 
Gleneagles  and  Canada  to  double  aid  to  Africa  by 
2010,  and  mobilizing  an  additional  fund  of  $5  billion 
over  the  next  five  years  to  achieve  the  MDGs; 
facilitating foreign direct investment flow to Africa and 
for 
improving 
investments 
rural 
development  and  food  security;  and  promoting  trade 
with  Africa  by 
for  Trade 
programmes and commitments. 

More efforts need to be made to reach agreement 
in the Doha Round of World Trade Organization trade 
negotiations,  especially  on  agricultural  market  access 
and  reduction  of  agricultural  subsidies,  which  have 
profound implications for Africa. 

That having been said, ASEAN fully supports the 
conclusion  and  recommendations  of  the  Secretary-
General  in  his  reports  regarding  proper  ways  and 
means  to  scale  up  the  implementation  of  NEPAD  and 
build  on  the  momentum  of  international  support  for 
Africa’s development. In addition, we also support the 
recommended  establishment  of  a  review  process  as  a 
mechanism 
to  Africa’s 
development. 

ASEAN  welcomes  every  positive  initiative  to 
advance  the  common  development  agenda  between 
ASEAN and Africa for the benefit of our peoples. We 
stand  ready  to  strengthen  cooperation,  collaboration 
and  solidarity  with 
international  community, 
particularly  with  Africa,  to  realize  the  internationally 
agreed  development  goals,  including  the  MDGs.  We 
are confident that Africa can carry out NEPAD for the 
peace, security, prosperity and sustainable development 
of Africa and the world. 
Mr. Abdelaziz (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): At the 

outset, I have the pleasure of aligning myself with the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Yemen  on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China, and with that to 
be made by Malawi on behalf of the African Group. 
Our meeting today comes less than a month after 

the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals 
outcome 
document (resolution 65/1) emphasized the urgent need 
to address the special development needs of Africa, the 
continent  lagging  behind  the  most  in  reaching  the 
to  monitor  commitments 
(MDGs),  whose 
the 
10-58121 

9 
to 
address 
is  due 
to 
countries 
the  crisis 
crisis  on 
the  developing 
A/65/PV.30 

internationally  agreed  development  goals,  particularly 
the MDGs. The meeting also underlined the unfulfilled 
commitments  and  the  urgent  need  to  bridge  the 
delivery gap that is shadowing their fulfilment. 
The  adverse  impact  of  the  world  financial  and 

economic 
countries, 
particularly  in  Africa,  has  affected  the  efforts  of 
African countries to achieve the internationally agreed 
the  negative 
development  goals.  That 
consequences  of 
for  export  earnings, 
remittances  and  foreign  direct  investment,  as  well  as 
for  the  ability  of  the  African  countries  to  pay  their 
debts. 
In  the  meantime,  the  crisis  has  revealed  the 

resolve  of  African 
the 
repercussions  of  the  crisis  through  adjusting  their 
economic and management structures and restoring an 
average growth rate that was estimated to be more than 
4  per  cent  in  2010,  after  being  around  2  per  cent  in 
2009  due  to  the  crisis.  Although  growth  rates  remain 
below  pre  crisis  levels  —  as  well  as  below  the  level 
required  to  make  significant  improvements  in  social 
conditions and to achieve the MDGs — Africa can take 
vigorous  steps  along  the  road  to  economic  recovery 
that 
if 
international support is extended and commitments are 
fulfilled. 

The  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD)  has  been  among  the  main  vehicles  for 
enhancing  such  structures.  Through  NEPAD 
the 
African  countries  have  taken  big  strides  in  various 
aspects  of  development,  such  as 
infrastructure, 
agriculture,  food  security,  health,  education,  and 
information and communications technology. There has 
also  been  significant  progress  in  respect  for  human 
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms,  including  through 
the  activities  of  the African  Peer  Review  Mechanism. 
That  Mechanism  now  comprises  30  countries, 
including  Egypt,  reflecting  Africa’s  progress  in  good 
governance,  improving  the  human  rights  situation  and 
strengthening democracy. 

In  that  context,  there  is  an  urgent  need  for  our 
development partners to fulfil all official development 
assistance  (ODA)  and  other  commitments  made  in 
different  forums  to  support  development  in  Africa. 
They must lift all barriers, whether related to subsidies 
or  other  technical  barriers,  that  cause African  exports 
to  be  at  a  disadvantage  and  increase Africa’s  share  of 
expectations, 
particularly 
exceed 
all 

review 
reform  of 
forward  on  a 
recommendations 
to 
the 
trade-related  aid.  Our  partners  should  facilitate  access 
to  world  markets  and  make  additional  efforts  to  bring 
the  Doha  Round  of  global  trade  negotiations  to  a 
comprehensive and development-oriented conclusion. 
Furthermore, Egypt stresses that the improvement 

of 
the  continent’s  development  situation  remains 
incomplete without affirming the necessity of seriously 
moving 
the  existing 
deficiencies  and  shortcomings  in  the  international 
economic  and  financial  system.  Such  a  reform  must 
end  the  marginalization  of  the  African  continent  in 
international  economic  decision-making  and  enhance 
the continent’s voice and participation. The status quo, 
which  deprives  the  countries  of  the  continent  of  their 
right  to  effectively  participate  in  managing  the  global 
economic system, cannot continue at a time when that 
system  gravely  affects  their  economic  situation.  We 
cannot  accept  a  new  system  that  consecrates  such 
marginalization instead of addressing it. 
In  that  context,  Egypt  welcomes  the  Secretary-

on 
a  monitoring 
General’s 
mechanism 
implementation  of 
commitments  to  Africa’s  development  needs.  Egypt 
believes that the General Assembly provides a suitable 
framework  for  that  mechanism,  which  would  also 
reflect  the  great  importance  that  the  United  Nations 
membership  attaches 
the  cause  of  enhancing 
development  in  Africa.  In  the  meantime,  any  future 
agreed  mechanism  must  put  more  emphasis  on 
following  up  and  monitoring  the  implementation  of 
ODA and other aid-related commitments to Africa. 

Despite  the  significant  improvement  that  Africa 
has  achieved  in  the  areas  of  peace  and  security, 
development,  and  respect  for  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms,  it  still  faces  many  complex 
challenges.  They 
intra  State  conflicts, 
unconstitutional  changes  of  Government,  election-
related  violence  and  illicit  trafficking  in  small  arms, 
light  weapons  and  drugs.  In  addition,  there  is  the 
mounting  negative 
influence  of  other  emerging 
challenges,  such  as  terrorism,  threats  to  maritime 
security,  climate  change  and  food  security.  Those 
threats  and  challenges  could  undermine  African 
endeavours to achieve stability and development. 

To  address  those  challenges,  Egypt  believes  that 
the  United  Nations,  the  African  Union  and  African 
subregional  organizations  should  combine  all  their 
preventive diplomacy, peacekeeping and peacebuilding 
include 
to 
10 

10-58121 
of 
the  work 
the  fruits  of 


tools  and  should  emphasize  the  linkage  among  the 
political, economic and social development aspects, as 
proposed  by  the  Secretary-General  in  his  report.  It  is 
therefore  of  paramount  importance  that  all  pledges  to 
support development in Africa be fully implemented. 

The  growing  cooperation  between  the  African 
Union  and  the  United  Nations  has  been  crucial  in 
addressing  many  of  the  challenges  to  peace  and 
security in Africa. The joint efforts of the two bodies to 
deal with the situations in Kenya and Zimbabwe in the 
past  and  with  the  current  situations  in  Guinea  and  the 
Niger, as well as other forms of cooperation such as the 
African  Union-United  Nations  Hybrid  Operation  in 
that  partnership. 
Darfur,  exemplify 
Furthermore, 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  to  support  four  African  countries  that 
have  emerged from  conflict underlines the importance 
of  joint  work  towards  peacebuilding  in  post-conflict 
situations. 

In that regard, Egypt attaches great importance to 
enhancing the annual consultative mechanism between 
the  Security  Council  and  the  AU  Peace  and  Security 
Council. 

In  addition,  we  believe  that  the  review  process 
under way regarding the implementation of the 10 year 
capacity-building  programme  for  the  African  Union 
will  further  enhance  United  Nations  support  to  build 
the capacities of the African institutions in the areas of 
peace  and  security,  socio-economic  development  and 
peacebuilding and peacekeeping. 
Enhancing  peace,  security  and  development  in 

Africa  has  always  been  among  the  top  priorities  of 
Egyptian  foreign  policy.  One  manifestation  of  that 
commitment  to  the  causes  of  our  continent  has  been 
Egypt’s  significant  contribution  to  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  operations  in  Africa,  which  has  made 
Egypt among the top five troop-contributing countries. 

In  the  same  vein,  in  August  Egypt  hosted  the 
2010  High-Level  Retreat  on  the  Promotion  of  Peace, 
Security  and  Stability 
in  Africa,  which  brought 
together  United  Nations  and  African  Union  envoys 
under  the  theme  “Making  peace  happen  in  Africa  in 
2010  and  beyond:  developing  common  strategies  and 
enhancing  coordination”.  The  forum,  which  adopted 
the  “Cairo  Call  for  Peace”,  provided  an  excellent 
opportunity for deliberations and interaction among the 
officials 
two 
organizations  on  how  to  maximize  the  synergies  of 
and  high-level 
envoys  of 
the 
A/65/PV.30
Since 
launched 
in  order 
in  Africa, 
relevant  bodies, 
in  109  countries  reaffirms 
their work to address challenges to peace and security 
in various parts of the African continent. 

the 
the  Millennium  Summit 
Decade to Roll Back Malaria in Developing Countries, 
Particularly 
international  efforts  have 
succeeded  in  eliminating  the  disease  in  nearly  half  of 
the  malaria-infected  countries.  In  addition,  a  marked 
reduction  in  infection  rates  has  been  achieved  in  a 
number  of  other  countries  as  a  result  of  programmes 
being  implemented  in  cooperation  with  the  United 
Nations  and  other 
international 
financial  institutions,  non-governmental  organizations, 
civil  society  and  the  private  sector,  and  as  a  result  of 
the increase in available funding for such programmes. 

However,  the  continuing  proliferation  of  the 
disease 
the  need  for 
continued support. It also reaffirms the need to ensure 
the  sustainability  of  funding 
to  reduce 
mortality rates by half in 2010, with a view to reaching 
a  75  per  cent  reduction  in  mortality  rates  by  2015. 
There  is  also  a  need  to  address  the  spread  of  the 
disease  in  Africa,  where  infection  rates  have  reached 
alarming levels of 91 per cent, the highest in the world. 

Those  facts  underline  the  dire  need  to  support 
efforts  to  revamp  the  infrastructure  of  the  economic, 
educational  and  health  systems  in  African  countries. 
There  is  also  a  serious  need  to  transfer  the  necessary 
technical  knowledge  to  support  those  efforts  and 
ensure the early diagnosis, treatment and prevention of 
the  disease  through  the  participation  of  all  forces  of 
society. That entails intensifying awareness campaigns 
at  national 
implementation  of 
prevention  and  treatment  programmes.  It  also  entails 
working to improve health-care systems and to provide 
medicines  and  vaccinations  and  to  train  qualified 
cadres. 
Such  undertakings  are  beyond  the  capacity  of 

many  Governments  unless 
foreign 
assistance, particularly in Africa, where many countries 
are  overburdened  by  malaria.  Egypt  calls  on  the 
international  community  to  deliver  on  commitments 
made  at  different  international  forums  to  support 
efforts to combat the spread of malaria. 

Egypt  commends  the  initiative  of  Tanzania  to 
establish  the  African  Leaders  Malaria  Alliance,  thus 
reaffirming  the  commitments  of  African  leaders  to 
combat  the  spread  of  malaria.  The  Alliance’s  recent 
successful  efforts  to  promote  preventive  measures  to 
levels,  alongside 
they 
receive 
10-58121 

11 

or 
the 
being 
community  has 
Indeed, 
shoulder 
developed. 
to 
international  community 
A/65/PV.30 

combat the spread of malaria and increase accessibility 
to  diagnostic  and  treatment  measures  require  parallel 
commitments  by 
to 
provide support at all levels. 

Furthermore,  building  national  capacities  must 
take place in tandem with building regional capacity, in 
order  to  address  the  transboundary  dimensions  of  the 
disease.  It  was  in  that  context  that  Egypt  launched  its 
initiative  to  establish  an  African  centre  to  promote 
cooperation and to exchange knowledge in the field of 
disease  control  and  to  serve  as  a  liaison  between 
specialized  African  centres.  That  initiative  has  been 
fully endorsed by African summits since 2005. 

It  is  also  imperative  to  resolve  the  trade-related 
aspects of the intellectual property rights with regard to 
malaria  medications  and  vaccines  currently 
in 
the 
circulation 
international 
that 
responsibility  so  as  to  ensure  effectiveness  of  the 
efforts to eliminate malaria and to thwart the risk of its 
reintroduction  so  that  we  may  realize  our  common 
goals,  especially  MDG  6,  by  the  targeted  date,  and  in 
all States, with no exceptions. 
Mr.  Wang  Min  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  I 

welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  reports  under  these 
agenda items. 
The  Chinese  delegation  endorses  the  statement 

made by the  representative of Yemen on behalf of the 
Group of 77 and China. 

Today  Africa  faces  both  important  opportunities 
and grave challenges in peace and development. Since 
the 
the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  nine  years  ago,  with  the 
vigorous  support  of  the  international  community,  the 
African  countries  have  made  great  progress  in  such 
areas  as  infrastructure,  agriculture,  health,  education, 
the  environment  and  information  and  communications 
technology.  Nevertheless,  under  the  impact  of  the 
financial,  food  and  energy  crises,  and  of  climate 
change, Africa still faces an uphill task in achieving the 
Millennium Development Goals by 2015. 

Today  most  of  the  original  hot  spot  issues 
affecting  Africa’s  peace  and  stability  are,  in  the  final 
analysis, attributable to poverty and underdevelopment. 
China  believes  that  development  is  the  basis  for  the 
attainment of peace in Africa. 
launch  of 
the 
right 
the  African 
First,  commitment 
Secondly,  African  countries’ 

The  international  community  should  increase  its 
support for Africa, and help it attain greater progress in 
the  implementation  of  NEPAD,  and  thus  promote 
stability and prosperity in Africa. 

to  assistance  should  be 
delivered  promptly.  Despite  the  slight  increase  in  its 
volume, 
total  official  development  assistance 
(ODA) for Africa in recent years still falls far short of 
that  pledged  by  the  international  community  and 
Africa’s  actual  needs. The  developed  countries  should 
expeditiously  raise  their  ODA  level  to  0.7  per  cent  of 
their gross national income, further open their markets 
to African products, reduce or cancel debt, and increase 
technology  transfer  and  investment  so  as  to  improve 
Africa’s capacity for independent development. 
to  self-

determination  should  be 
respected.  The  African 
countries  have  made  major  headway  through  vigorous 
efforts  to  increase  unity  for  greater  strength,  seek 
regional peace and stability and bring about economic 
reinvigoration.  In  providing  assistance  to  Africa,  the 
international  community  should  show  greater  respect 
for the real situation on the ground and the aspirations 
of 
remove 
conditionalities 
the 
predictability  and  transparency  of  such  assistance  and 
redress  the  power  imbalance  between  donors  and 
recipients. 

Thirdly,  South-South  cooperation  should  be 
expanded.  As  a  useful  complement  to  North-South 
cooperation,  South-South  cooperation  has  become  an 
effective  engine  for  Africa’s  economic  development. 
Recent years have seen brisk financial and commercial 
exchanges between countries in the South; the creation 
of various models of cooperation based on equality and 
mutual  benefit  in  areas  such  as  sharing  knowledge, 
exchange  of  experience, 
technology 
transfer;  and  contributions  in  kind  and  soft  loans, 
which  have  further  enhanced  and  revitalized  South-
South cooperation for Africa’s development. 

Fourthly,  the  role  of  international  institutions 
must  be  strengthened.  The  United  Nations  system  is 
playing  an irreplaceable role in supporting NEPAD. It 
is imperative to further deepen the system’s partnership 
with the African Union, the African Development Bank 
and regional economic communities, and to ensure that 
the  focus  of  various  bodies  of  the  United  Nations 
system  is  aligned  with  the  priorities  of  NEPAD.  The 
training  and 
countries, 
attached 
increase 
further 
to 
aid, 
12 

10-58121 
important  role 


international  financial  institutions  and  international 
development agencies should also step up their support 
for Africa. 

Fifthly,  the  realization  of  lasting  peace  in Africa 
should be promoted. At present over 60 per cent of the 
items  on  the  Security  Council’s  agenda  are  related  to 
Africa,  and  75  per  cent  of 
the  Organization’s 
international  peacekeepers  are  deployed  in  Africa. 
China believes that the international community should 
vigorously support the African countries in their efforts 
to  solve  their  disputes  through  peaceful  consultations 
and  support  the  efforts  of  the  regional  organizations, 
such  as  the  African  Union,  in  strengthening  their 
capacity-building 
in  peacekeeping.  The  peaceful 
resolution of the hot spot issues in Africa should not be 
interrupted  or  hindered  by  any  means.  The  United 
Nations should play a more proactive role in the  field 
of  peace  and  development  in Africa,  and  the  Security 
Council  should  play  a  more 
in 
maintaining peace, security and stability there. 

China  and  Africa  enjoy  a  profound  tradition  of 
friendship.  China  has  always  been  committed  to  the 
cause  of  peace  and  development  on  the  African 
continent. Since the establishment of the China-Africa 
Cooperation  Forum 
strategic 
partnership with Africa has developed in depth; after a 
decade’s efforts, fruitful results have been achieved in 
many areas. 

In  recent  years  the  Chinese  Government  has 
implemented  various  measures  in  its  Africa-related 
assistance and cooperation. 

the  Chinese  Government 
announced, at the Fourth Ministerial Conference of the 
China-Africa  Cooperation  Forum, 
series  of 
policy measures  in  support  of  Africa’s  development. 
They  include  $10  billion  of  preferential  loans  to 
African  countries;  cancellation  of  the  unpaid  interest-
free  loans  —  expired  at  the  end  of  2009  —  owed  by 
heavily  indebted  poor  countries  and  least  developed 
countries  (LDCs)  in  Africa  with  diplomatic  ties  with 
China; and progressive granting of duty-free treatment 
for  95  per  cent  of  the  products  of African  LDCs  that 
have  diplomatic  ties  with  China,  with  the  treatment 
applied to 60 per cent of such products as the first step 
in 2010. 

China  fully  supports  the  call  to  increase  global 
control  of  malaria.  Between  2006  and  2009,  China 
provided RMB 300 million in grants to help Africa in 
in  2000,  China’s 
Last  November 
a 
A/65/PV.30
the fight against malaria. From now until 2012, China 
will continue to provide its 30 malaria prevention and 
control centres in Africa with anti-malaria supplies and 
invite experts and technicians of the recipient countries 
working in those centres to train in China so that these 
development projects become sustainable. 

In  September,  the  second  round  of  Ministerial 
Political Consultations between China and Africa took 
place  at  United  Nations  Headquarters.  China  has 
always  engaged,  and  will  continue  to  engage,  in 
constructive  good  offices  and  make  efforts  to  address 
the  hot  spot  issues  facing  Africa.  It  will  support  the 
Security  Council  in  playing  an  important  role  in 
helping  resolve  conflicts  in  the  African  region  and 
support and participate in United Nations peacekeeping 
operations  in  Africa.  It  calls  upon  the  international 
community  and  United  Nations  entities,  including  the 
Security  Council, 
to  make  more  proactive  and 
constructive contributions for the maintenance of peace 
and security in Africa. 
We  are  convinced that the  people of Africa  have 

the  wisdom  and  ability 
to  achieve  economic 
revitalization  and  social  progress  through  their  own 
unflagging  efforts.  China  is  ready  to  join  the African 
countries 
in 
continuing  to  contribute  to  the  cause  of  peace  and 
development in Africa. 
the 

Secretary-General  for  the  reports  presented  under  the 
agenda  items  that  we  are  debating.  I  also  take  this 
opportunity to commend the Secretary-General and his 
Special  Envoy  for  their  work  in  mobilizing  global 
support  for  action  on  malaria,  particularly  as  we  seek 
to  fulfil  the  health-related  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs). 
We meet today to discuss the New Partnership for 

Africa’s  Development 
in 
implementation  and  international  support,  as  well  as 
causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace 
and sustainable development in Africa and the Decade 
to  Roll  Back  Malaria 
in  Developing  countries, 
Particularly in Africa. 

Yemen on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 

NEPAD  was  conceived  as  a  blueprint  for 
establishing a socio-economic development framework 
We  align  ourselves  with  the  statement  made  by 
(South  Africa): 
Mr.  Sangqu
international 
community 
(NEPAD), 
and 
the 
I 
thank 
progress 
10-58121 

13 

for 
through 
the  Programme 
A/65/PV.30 

for Africa. It has been able to identify priority areas of 
action in line with the NEPAD objectives. 

South Africa  is  thus  encouraged  by  the  progress 
made 
Infrastructure 
Development  in  Africa,  which  provides  a  framework 
for regional and continental transport networks, energy, 
water and information and communications technology. 
In this regard, we commend the international financial 
institutions  and  development  banks  that  have  pledged 
to increase their financial commitments to Africa by at 
least $15 billion in the next two to three years. 

However, we are concerned that, although Africa 
will need infrastructure investment totalling $93 billion 
a  year,  it  currently  spends  $45  billion  annually.  It  is 
therefore  critical  that  we  secure  support  for  the 
remaining financing gap of $48 billion. 

In  the  context  of  NEPAD,  the  Comprehensive 
Africa Agriculture Development Programme (CAADP) 
was  developed,  and  several  African  countries  are 
benefiting from Group of Eight funding pledged at the 
L’Aquila  2009  Summit  through  ensuring  that  CAADP 
national investment plans are in place. 

In  addition  to  other  endeavours  to  facilitate 
development,  we  have  seen  the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism  (APRM)  process  go  from  strength  to 
strength. That  is  manifested  by  the  increase  in APRM 
membership,  which  now  stands  at  29.  This  uniquely 
designed  peer  review  mechanism  has  proved  to  be  an 
effective tool for the advancement of good governance 
on the continent. 

South  Africa  further  commends  the  progress 
made  thus  far  towards  the  full  integration  of  the 
NEPAD  Planning  and  Coordinating  Agency  into  the 
African Union Commission structures and processes. 

the 
international  community  to  provide  adequate  support 
for  African-led  conflict-resolution  strategies  in  line 
with the priorities of the African Union (AU). 

Despite the numerous challenges that Africa still 
confronts, the continent has over the past decade made 
outstanding improvements in many areas, including the 
building of sustainable institutions. 

The  creation  of  the  African  Union  and  its 
subsidiary organs, which include the African Peace and 
Security  Architecture,  signal  the  strong  commitment 
The  Secretary-General  has  called  on 
to 
14 

10-58121 
and 
progressive 
peacebuilding 
resources  within  countries, 
and  political  will  of African  leaders  to  advance  peace 
and security throughout the continent. 

The  African  Union  Post-Conflict  Reconstruction 
and Development (PCRD) programme has proved to be 
a 
development 
mechanism that should be meaningfully supported and 
sustained.  South  Africa  is  privileged  to  lead  the 
pioneering  work  of  this AU  programme  in  the  Sudan. 
What  is  urgently  required  now  is  for  the  United 
Nations  to  continue  its  support  and  assistance  to  the 
AU  in  line  with  the  recommendations  of  the  Prodi 
Report. 

Since  1994,  South  Africa  has  made  its  humble 
contribution towards conflict resolution on the African 
continent. To this end, in line with the objectives of the 
PCRD,  South  Africa  has  played  a  significant  role  in 
post-conflict  reconstruction  and  capacity-building  in 
countries such as Burundi, the Sudan, the Sahrawi Arab 
Democratic  Republic  and  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the Congo. 
Among  other  things,  the  inequitable  distribution 

of 
income  and 
the 
politicization  of  ethnicity,  asymmetric  distribution  of 
political  power,  and  absence  of  the  voice  of  the 
majority  in  decision-making  are  systemic  causes  of 
many  conflicts  that  threaten  the  hard-won  peace  and 
stability of African States. In this context, we appeal to 
the  international  community  to  focus  its  conflict-
resolution 
the  structural 
issues, instead of choosing the easy way of addressing 
proximate causes that usually last for a short time. For 
a  durable  solution  there  is  a  need  to  recognize  the 
importance of development as a catalyst for peace and 
security. 
We  therefore  call  on  the  United  Nations  and  the 

wider  international  community  to  work  in  partnership 
with African States in actualizing their political, social 
and economic development potential. 
In 2009 the African leaders launched the African 

Leaders  Malaria  Alliance,  and  they  continued  to  put 
malaria control high on their agenda for 2010. 

The  establishment  of  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight 
AIDS, Tuberculosis  and  Malaria  and  commitments  by 
members of the international community, including the 
World  Bank  and  other  agencies,  have  contributed 
immensely 
the  scaling  up  of  malaria  control 
initiatives  on  addressing 
the 
of 
I 
to 
We 
factories 
producers 
encourage 
in  establishing 
South  Africa  calls  upon 


interventions  and  have  led  to  noticeable  reductions  in 
the burden of malaria. 

international 
community  to  support  national  efforts  by  providing 
technical  assistance 
improve  monitoring  and 
evaluation  systems  in  order  to  track  and  report  on 
changes  in  coverage  and  subsequent  reductions  in  the 
burden of malaria. 

long-lasting 
insecticide-treated  nets  to  provide  technology  transfer 
to developing countries. We also invite the World Bank 
and  private-sector  partners  to  assist  malaria-endemic 
countries 
to  scale  up 
production of the nets. 
South  Africa  welcomes  the  recognition  that  the 

use  of  DDT  for  indoor  residual  spraying  has  been 
found to be successful. Countries should be allowed to 
continue  to  use  DDT,  as  long  as  it  is  used  in 
accordance  with  international  rules,  guidelines  and 
standards. 

In  conclusion,  my  delegation  recognizes  that  the 
support  of  the  international  community  is  critical  for 
the success of Africa’s development. We will continue 
to  work  together  with  the  international  community  in 
fulfilling  the  vision  of  a  prosperous  Africa  free  from 
the burden of conflict, poverty and disease. 
the 

Secretary-General for his comprehensive reports on the 
important issues before us today. 
We  align  ourselves  with  the  statement  made  by 

the representative of Yemen on behalf of the Group of 
77 and China. 

Africa has made  remarkable achievements in the 
implementation  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development 
the 
collective  vision  for  Africa’s  strategic  development. 
The  recent  integration  of  NEPAD  into  the  African 
Union  structures  has  generated  a  new  momentum 
towards the implementation of its priority areas. 

Steady  progress  has  been  made  in  the  political, 
economic  and  social  sectors  on  the African  continent. 
The  elements  of  good  governance  have  been  well 
embraced.  The  adoption  of  political  pluralism,  the 
holding  of  regular,  free  and  fair  elections,  respect  for 
the  rule of law and human rights, and the  adoption of 
the African Peer Review Mechanism by many African 
(NEPAD),  which 
Mr.  Christian
represents 
commend 
(Ghana): 
A/65/PV.30
that 
reduced 
countries  in  the  past  decade  testify  to  the  accountable 
political leadership and deepened democratic ethos that 
prevail on the continent. 

Between  2002  and  2007  gross  domestic  product 
grew annually by some 6.5 per cent, the highest rate in 
more than 30 years. Moderate or low levels of inflation 
and  macroeconomic  stability  accompanied  the  growth 
take-off in most countries. What was striking about this 
upswing  was 
it  was  broad-based  and  not 
concentrated in just a few countries. 
Commendable  achievements  have  been  made  in 

the  health  and  education  sectors.  Public  health 
successes include the elimination of river blindness and 
leprosy, and substantive control of the transmission of 
polio,  Guinea  worm  and  measles.  Many  African 
countries  have  significantly 
their  AIDS 
prevalence  rate,  and  a  growing  number  of  Africans 
living  with  the  virus  are  undergoing  antiretroviral 
treatment. 

In spite of the progress, health systems in Africa 
remain underfunded, understaffed and ill-equipped, and 
vaccination  coverage  is  weak.  Armed  conflicts  and 
drug  trafficking  are  still  affecting  our  society.  The 
world’s  economic  and  financial  crisis  has  caused  a 
reduction  in  export  prices,  remittances  and  foreign 
investments, and a depreciation of local currencies, as 
well  as  an 
in  Africa’s  debt.  Official 
development  assistance  (ODA)  is  about  $14  billion 
short  of  the  original  Gleneagles  commitment. Africa’s 
ability to raise resources for development has therefore 
been negatively affected. 

ODA is very important to Africa, now more than 
ever  before.  Total  resource  flows  to  Africa  remained 
less  diversified  than  in  other  developing  areas,  and  it 
also  has  a  relatively  smaller  share  of  other  resource 
flows,  such  as  foreign  direct  investment,  bonds  and 
portfolio  equity,  as  compared  to  ODA.  The  sharp 
slowdown 
revenue  combined  with 
declining export revenue and remittances, as well as a 
loss  of  access 
international  capital  markets, 
underlines the critical need for more resources from the 
international  community,  particularly  ODA.  What  is 
needed currently in Africa is not a renewal of pledges 
but 
the  delivery  of  commitments  made  by  our 
development partners. 

the 
implementation  of  measures  to  curtail  illicit  financial 
flows  at  all  levels,  enhancing  disclosure  practices  and 
in  domestic 
resourced 
increase 
through 
Africa 
can 
be 
to 
10-58121 

15 
towards 
the 
in 
financial 
to  enhance 
a  balanced 
transparency 
expeditiously 
We  call  on 
to  African  countries 
international  community 
A/65/PV.30 

promoting 
information. 
Strengthening  national  and  multinational  efforts  to 
address  this  issue,  including  support  and  technical 
assistance 
their 
capacities,  is  crucial.  Additional  measures  should  be 
implemented  to  prevent  the  transfer  abroad  of  stolen 
assets and to  assist in the  recovery and return  of such 
assets  to  Africa,  consistent  with  the  United  Nations 
Convention against Corruption. 

Africa desires to move away from aid dependency 
in future. This can be achieved if we can trade our way 
out of poverty. Fully supporting and further developing 
a  universal, 
rules-based,  open,  non-discriminatory, 
equitable and transparent multilateral trading system, by 
working 
and 
ambitious,  comprehensive  Doha  outcome  document, 
will bring benefits to Africa and contribute to enhancing 
its integration into the world economic system. 

to 
emphasize  aid  for  trade  in  order  to  strengthen  and 
enhance  the  trade  capacity  and  competitiveness  of 
African  countries  so  as  to  ensure  equitable  benefits 
from  increased  trading  opportunities  and  to  foster 
economic growth. 

Malaria  continues  to  take  its  deadly  toll  on 
Africans, in particular vulnerable children and pregnant 
women.  It  also  deprives  us  of  significant  resources 
meant  for  accelerated  economic  development.  We 
believe that together with our partners we can win the 
fight  against  malaria.  We  must  therefore  keep  up  that 
fight. 

Development  of  the  continent  requires  shared 
responsibilities. African Governments need to enhance 
domestic  resource  mobilization  as  well  as  to  pursue 
deep reforms that contribute to development. 

In conclusion, Ghana is of the view that the way 
forward to meet Africa’s development needs is to take 
coordinated, balanced and integrated action at all levels 
to attain the Millennium Development Goals in full and 
in a timely manner and to comprehensively address all 
challenges to Africa’s development. 
Mr. Núñez Mosquera (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 

On  10  October  our  country  commemorated 
the 
beginning  of  the  first  war  of  independence,  in  1868. 
This historic event, which marked forever the course of 
our  national  history,  was  accompanied  by  one  of  the 
most  momentous  acts  of  justice  in  our  history:  Carlos 

fighting 
centuries 
the  father  of 
Manuel  de  Céspedes, 
the  Cuban 
homeland,  set  his  slaves  free.  Independence  and  our 
African heritage are therefore inextricably linked to the 
Cuban national identity. 

As President Raúl Castro has stated, Africa is not 
a  legend  distant  in  space  and  time  —  it  is  dignity, 
sacrifice, courage and endurance. 

Over  one  and  a  half  million  enslaved  Africans 
arrived in our island, coming from territories occupied 
today  by  many  African  countries,  including  Angola, 
Benin,  Burkina  Faso,  Cape  Verde,  Congo,  Côte 
d’Ivoire,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
Gabon,  Gambia,  Ghana,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau, 
Kenya, 
Liberia,  Malawi,  Mali,  Mauritania, 
Mozambique, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, Togo and 
the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania.  We  are  therefore 
proud  to  declare  that  the  Cuban  people  have  directly 
and  naturally  inherited  the  gallantry,  bravery  and 
culture  of  resistance  of  Africa,  which  has  been 
heroically 
to  overcome 
for 
challenges that still persist. 

The  deepest  internationalist  convictions  of  the 
Cuban  Revolution  have  made  it  possible  for  our 
country  to  be  always  at  the  side  of  Africa,  from 
unconditional support for the anti colonial struggles to 
cooperative projects in many aspects of the continent’s 
socio-economic  development.  Over  381,000  Cuban 
combatants fought selflessly to defend the integrity and 
sovereignty  of  sister  African  nations  for  almost  three 
decades.  We  returned  from  Africa  with  only  the 
remains  of  our  fallen  comrades  and  the  honour  of 
having fulfilled our duty. 

Today, more than 2,400 Cubans are helping in 35 
African nations with the promotion of development in 
diverse  areas 
including  public  health,  education, 
agriculture, sports and construction. 
Our  country  will  continue  to  contribute  human 

its  cooperation  with 
capital  and  experience 
the 
numerous 
countries  of 
Comprehensive Health Programme alone, around 1,120 
Cuban doctors and health-care technicians are working 
in 23 African countries, offering their services to more 
than 48 million people. 

Today  more  than  2,200  young  people  from  45 
African  countries  are  studying  in  our  universities  and 
polytechnic institutes; over 32,000 young people  from 
the continent have graduated in various specialities. 
continent. 
in 
the 
In 
16 

10-58121 
It 
is 
to 
the 
fail 
change 
to  meet 
imperative 
that  hinders 
trade  regime 



Cuba  has  always  stood  with  Africa,  and  Africa 
with Cuba. In the more than 50 years of the unjust and 
cruel blockade of Cuba, the African Governments  and 
peoples  have  closed  ranks  18  times  in  the  General 
Assembly to stand up for the right of the Cuban people 
to determine their own destiny. 

The  statements  we  make  here  are  to  no  avail  if 
the  African  countries  are  then  forced  to  spend  five 
times  more  on  shameful  foreign  debts  than  on  health 
and education programmes. 
current 

international  order,  in  which  powerful  multinationals 
strive  to  control  the  mineral  resources  of  the  African 
continent,  and  in  which  the  rich  countries,  with  a  few 
exceptions, 
their  modest  official 
development  assistance  commitments  and  cling  to  an 
unjust  patent  and 
the 
development of African nations. 
To  address  Africa’s  problems,  it  is  necessary  to 

eliminate  the  profit-at-any-cost  philosophy  supporting 
the current international system. 

Our country  will continue to support the African 
Union and all the regional coordination mechanisms in 
their endeavour to find their own solutions to Africa’s 
problems. However, Africa also needs the firm support 
of  the  international  community.  And  from  the  United 
Nations it needs an integrated approach to solving the 
continent’s  problems  related  to  its  peace,  security  and 
development. 

We  demand  for  Africa  not  paternalism,  but 
equality  of  opportunities,  as  part  of  a  more  just  and 
equitable international order. That is what is needed for 
the  countries  of  Africa  and  the  other  developing 
nations to be able to face the challenge of working for 
the well-being of our peoples. 

and respect. 
Mr. Mwanyula (Malawi): Speaking on behalf of 

the African Group, I take this opportunity to thank the 
Secretary-General 
the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development:  progress  in 
implementation and international support; on causes of 
conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and 
sustainable  development  in Africa;  and  on  the  Decade 
to  Roll  Back  Malaria 
in  Developing  Countries, 
Particularly in Africa. 
Above  all,  Africa  needs  and  deserves  solidarity 
reports  on 
for  his 
A/65/PV.30
and 
establish 
itself  with 
coordinating 
the  NEPAD  Planning 
The  African  Group  aligns 

the 
statement made by Yemen on behalf of the Group of 77 
and China. 

The year 2010 has been a remarkable one for the 
African  Union  and  its  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD) programme. It will be recalled 
that  extensive  efforts  to  integrate  NEPAD  into  the 
structures  and  processes  of  the  African  Union  finally 
culminated  in  the  decision  of  the  fourteenth  African 
Union  summit,  held  in  Addis  Ababa,  Ethiopia,  to 
formally 
and 
Coordinating Agency as a technical body of the African 
Union. 

As  mandated  by  the  African  Union  Assembly 
decision,  the Agency’s  role  as  a  planning  unit  aims  at 
facilitating 
implementation  of 
regional  and  continental  programmes  and  mobilizing 
resources  for  the  implementation  of  Africa’s  priority 
programmes  and  projects.  The  Agency’s  role 
in 
conducting  and  coordinating  research  and  knowledge 
management  will  create  an  enabling  environment  to 
achieve  food  security  and  agricultural  development  in 
the next five years. 
taken  huge  steps  to 

implement 
for  Africa’s 
Development. The past year has witnessed progress in 
the  implementation  of  NEPAD  projects  in  key  sectors 
such  as 
the  Comprehensive  Africa 
Agriculture  Development  Programme,  education  and 
and 
training, 
the 
communications 
and 
technology. Equally, there has been progress in moving 
forward the African Peer  Review Mechanism, with 30 
countries acceding and 12 countries reviewed. 
The  just  concluded  High-level  Plenary  Meeting 

on 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 
highlighted  the  reality  that  no  country  in Africa  is  on 
track  to  meet  all  the  MDG  targets  by  2015.  In  this 
regard, the summit called for more attention to Africa, 
as  the  continent  is  the  only  region  where  poverty  is 
increasing. 

This  scenario  is  worsened  by  multiple  crises, 
including  the  global  financial  and  economic  crisis, 
increasing  food  and  energy  prices  and  the  impact  of 
climate  change.  In  order  to  mitigate  and  forestall  the 
impacts  of 
the  multiple  crises,  most  African 
Governments  have  been  forced  to  divert  their  limited 
information 
and 
science 
environment, 
technologies 
African  countries  have 
the  New  Partnership 
infrastructure, 
10-58121 

17 
in 
towards 
their  progress 
the  50  per  cent 
A/65/PV.30 

resources  to  short-term  solutions.  This  has  led  to  a 
reversal of the development gains. 

Therefore,  there  is  an  urgent  need  for  renewed 
commitments  to  support  Africa  in  meeting  its  special 
needs,  in  order  to  mitigate  the  multidimensional 
impacts  of  the  crises  and  help  African  countries 
recover  ground 
the 
implementation of NEPAD and the achievement of the 
MDGs.  In  particular,  development  partners  should 
deliver  on  their  aid  commitments.  According  to  the 
Secretary-General’s  report  on  NEPAD,  since  2004 
Africa  has  received  between  32  per  cent  and  35  per 
cent  of  the  total  increase  in  official  development 
assistance,  well  below 
increase 
committed to in Gleneagles. Africa is likely to receive 
only  about  $12  billion  of  the  $25  billion  increase 
envisaged at Gleneagles. 

Although Africa produces only 4 per cent of total 
global  carbon  dioxide  emissions,  it  is  the  region  most 
vulnerable to global climate change and least equipped 
to  deal  with  its  consequences.  Changes  in  weather 
patterns  have  a  direct  bearing  on  water  availability, 
agricultural  output  and  food  security.  As  climate 
change  intensifies  and  its  impacts  deepen,  adaptation 
among 
is  becoming 
increasingly challenging. 

Due  to  lack  of  adequate  financial  resources,  of 
capacity-building  and  of  appropriate 
technology, 
environmental management is a serious challenge. As a 
result, 
to  witness 
desertification,  deforestation,  dust  storms,  pollution 
and 
rapid 
urbanization. Africa is currently losing large swathes of 
forest every year. 

of 
infrastructure.  That  deficit  is  preventing  the  continent 
from  realizing  its  full  potential  for  economic  growth, 
global competitiveness and achievement of the MDGs, 
including  poverty  reduction.  Modern  infrastructure 
services  are  largely  inaccessible  to  the  poorest. About 
60 per cent of the rural population in African countries 
is poor and unable to access health care, education and 
gainful employment. Therefore, there is an urgent need 
to  scale  up  investments  in  the  infrastructure,  as  it  is 
critical to economic growth and development. 
and 

profitability  has  great  potential 
economic 
development  in  a  rural  continent.  More  than  90  per 
cent  of  the  continent’s  food  supply  is  produced  by 
loss  of  ecosystems  caused  by 
the  communities 
productivity 
agricultural 
a 
severe 
in  Africa 
Africa 
suffers 
from 
Improved 
the 
continent 
continues 
lack 
for 

NEPAD recognizes the critical role of the private 
the 
smallholder  farmers  in  rural  areas.  Yet  more  than 
50 per  cent  of 
the  food-insecure  population  are 
smallholder  farmers,  in  addition  to  the  landless  poor 
and the urban poor. 

To address poverty and reduce hunger across the 
continent,  sustained  agricultural  growth  is  a  high 
priority,  as  envisaged  by  the  Comprehensive  Africa 
Agriculture  Development  Programme.  Hunger  and 
health  are  inextricably  linked  to  the  realization  of  the 
MDGs. Malnourishment devastates children and stunts 
their  potential,  leading  to  cyclical  deprivation  and 
hunger. 

Africa  faces  challenges  in  meeting  the  health-
related  MDGs  by  2015.  Access  to  essential  services, 
such  as  family  planning,  maternal  health  care,  and 
malaria and HIV prevention and treatment, remain dire. 
As  a  result,  death  rates  among  African  women  from 
complications  of  pregnancy  and  childbirth  are  very 
high.  However,  the  reality  on  the  ground  is  a  critical 
shortage  of  health  workers  in Africa,  and  weak  health 
systems severely underfunded due to a lack of national 
and international budgetary commitments. 

sector,  both  domestic  and  foreign-owned,  as 
continent’s engine of economic growth. 

Africa continues to be plagued by long-term, and 
in  some  cases  interrelated,  crises  and  violent  conflicts 
which have caused immense human suffering. In light 
of  the  serious  implications  of  conflict  on  several 
aspects  of  the  development  of Africa,  initiatives  such 
as  peacebuilding  and  post-conflict  reconstruction  and 
development  have  been  launched  on  a  continent-wide 
and regional level to address conflict issues. 

A  central  theme  in  the  African  Union/NEPAD 
agenda  is  the  bringing  together  of  the  issues  of  peace 
and  security,  governance,  constitutionalism,  economic 
development  and  international  partnerships.  In  this 
regard,  the  African  Group  once  again  reiterates  the 
urgent  need  to  establish  a  monitoring  mechanism  to 
follow  up  on  all  commitments 
the 
development  of  Africa,  as  contained  in  the  political 
declaration  on  Africa’s  development  needs  review 
process  and  as 
the  Secretary-
General’s  report.  In  our  view,  the  process  should  be 
the  General  Assembly.  The 
under 
implementation  of 
the  commitments  of  African 
Governments and their development partners would be 
reviewed, beginning at the Assembly’s next session. 
the  aegis  of 
recommended 
related 
to 
in 
the 
18 

10-58121 
First, 
is  being 
Africa 
to  provide  an 
the  New  Partnership 


Mr. O’Brien (Australia): We thank the President 

for convening this joint debate on the New Partnership 
for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) and the Decade to 
Roll  Back  Malaria 
in  Developing  Countries, 
Particularly in Africa. I will address each item in turn. 
for  Africa’s 

Development  continues 
important 
framework to address the critical challenges facing the 
African  continent.  We  welcome  the  integration  of 
NEPAD into the structures and processes of the African 
Union.  This  represents  a  new  era  for  NEPAD  in  the 
implementation  of  its  priorities  for  the  attainment  of 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 

The  Australian  Government  is  pleased  to  be 
supporting Africa’s  own  efforts  to  achieve  the  MDGs 
by  2015.  We  have  doubled  our  overseas  development 
assistance  to  Africa  over  the  last  three  years,  and  on 
current projections our development budget will double 
again by 2015. In this, we have aligned our efforts with 
those of African Governments, institutions, multilateral 
partners  and  other  donors,  in  order  to  ensure  the 
effectiveness of our increased cooperation with Africa. 

Australia’s  four-year  $100  million  food  security 
programme 
in 
partnership  with  key  regional  organizations  under 
NEPAD’s 
Agriculture 
Development Program (CAADP). Australia recognizes 
that  CAADP 
for 
implementing  the  L’Aquila  principles  on  global  food 
security,  and  sees  NEPAD  as  an  important  tool  for 
moving it forward. 

In  dealing  with  water  and  sanitation  —  another 
key  NEPAD  priority  area  —  Australia’s  efforts  are 
aligned  with  African-owned  and  -driven  priorities, 
especially  achievement  of  the  Africa  Water  Vision 
2025. 

Australia  is  also  strengthening  its  partnership 
with  the African  Union  more  broadly.  Last  month,  we 
were pleased  to sign a memorandum of understanding 
with  the  African  Union  Commission  which  should 
serve  to  strengthen  coordination  and  cooperation  in 
in  Africa.  By  way  of 
areas  of  mutual 
illustration,  Australia  will  work  closely  with 
the 
African Union Commission as part of our $140 million 
programme  to  support  maternal  and  child  health  in 
Eastern  Africa,  in  recognition  of  the  Commission’s 
unique  role  in  continent-wide  advocacy  on  those 
issues. 
represents  a  key  mechanism 
Comprehensive 
implemented 
in  Africa 
interest 
A/65/PV.30
of 
the 
shares 
Australia 
trade  negotiations.  Australia 
improved  monitoring  mechanism 
As  Foreign  Minister  Rudd  said  during 

Secretary-General’s 
frustration with the lack of progress being made in the 
Doha  Round  of 
is 
pursuing  an  outcome  that  is  good  for  development, 
good  for  agricultural  trade  reform  and  good  for  the 
multilateral  trading  regime.  Such  an  outcome  in  the 
Doha  Round,  together  with  effective  aid-for-trade 
activities in the region, will help Africa to trade its way 
out of poverty. 

the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  summit  last  month, 
donor  countries  need  to  do  what  we  say  we  will  to 
honour our commitments. That is what Australia seeks 
to  do.  Thus  we  look  forward  to  discussing  with  other 
Member  States  the  Secretary-General’s  suggestion  for 
an 
the 
commitments  to  Africa’s  development,  to  strengthen 
the sense of partnership and mutual accountability that 
should  exist  between  donor  and  recipient  Member 
States. 

I turn now to the Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing  Countries.  As  we  near  the  end  of  the 
Decade,  the  disease  continues  to  have  a  serious 
economic and human impact across the globe. Malaria 
fuels the cycle of poverty, afflicting primarily the poor 
and most vulnerable. It is an unacceptable tragedy that 
malaria remains a major killer of African children. 

We  can  draw  some  encouragement  from  the 
progress  that  has  been  made  in  combating  the  disease 
and  by  the  results  that  we  are  beginning  to  see.  The 
reduction  in  malaria  cases  and  deaths  in  those  high-
burden  African  countries  that  have  achieved  high 
coverage  of 
their  populations  with  bednets  and 
treatment  programmes  demonstrates  that  we  know 
what  is  needed  to  combat  this  disease.  Our  efforts, 
however, must continue. 

The Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and 
Malaria  is  a  critical  player  in  combating  malaria  in 
developing  countries.  Last  week, Australia  announced 
its  commitment  of  $210  million  over  three  years  to 
support  the  critical  work  of  the  Global  Fund.  That 
commitment  represents  a  55  per  cent  increase  over 
Australia’s  last  three-year  pledge  to  the  Global  Fund 
and demonstrates our commitment to supporting global 
efforts to build on the successes of the past decade and 
to reverse the incidence of malaria worldwide.  
Australia’s bilateral programmes complement our 

support  to  the  Global  Fund.  Australia  is  playing  a 
10-58121 

19 
A/65/PV.30 

leading role in reducing the malaria burden in the Asia-
Pacific  region,  where  around  62  per  cent  of  malaria 
cases outside of Africa occur. 
Through  the  Pacific  Malaria  Initiative, Australia 

is  providing 
technical  and  management 
support  to  assist  Governments  to  implement  their 
national malaria action plans. This initiative is already 
making  impressive  progress.  In  Solomon  Islands,  the 
incidence of malaria has been reduced from 199 cases 
per 1,000 people in 2003 to 77 cases per 1,000 in 2009; 
while in Vanuatu the rate has fallen from 74 to 15 cases 
per 1,000. The initiative has highlighted the importance 
of  working  within  partner  Government  systems,  of 
strong political leadership and of providing appropriate 
technical  expertise. Australia  will  continue  to  support 
malaria control in the Asia-Pacific region and globally. 
We aim to build on successes so far and to achieve the 
goals set for us in MDG 6 by 2015. 
Mrs.  Pessôa  (Brazil):  I  wish  to  thank  you, 

Mr. President,  for  convening  this  joint  debate  on  the 
implementation of and international support to the New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  and 
the  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  in  Developing 
Countries. I take this opportunity to convey our sincere 
appreciation for the quality of all the reports and notes 
presented  by  the  Secretary-General  for  both  items 
under  our  consideration  today  (A/65/152,  A/65/165, 
A/65/167, A/65/62, A/62/Add.1 and A/65/210). 

Brazil  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  delivered 
by the representative of Yemen on behalf of the Group 
of 77 and China. 

Brazil has supported NEPAD as an example of an 
African-owned and -driven initiative. The high priority 
we attribute to NEPAD is reflected in a wide range of 
technical 
in 
partnership  with  various  African  countries.  Our 
cooperation  projects  are  always  aimed  at  transferring 
skills,  building  local  capacity  and  empowering  local 
workers,  with  the  full  engagement  and  ownership  of 
African Governments. 

In  2009,  Brazilian  cooperation  projects  in Africa 
represented  51  per  cent  of  our  overall  investments  in 
technical  cooperation with other developing countries. 
partnership  with 
Initiatives 
Portuguese-speaking 
alone 
represented 
63 per  cent  of  that  total. The  wide  variety  of  areas  of 
technical cooperation with Africa encompasses projects 
in  areas  such  as  education,  agriculture  and  livestock 
in 
countries 
implemented 
implemented 
cooperation 
projects 
targeted 

It 
is 
husbandry,  science,  energy  and  health.  Currently, 
Brazil partners with African countries on 117 projects. 

Our  cooperation  with  Africa  is  consistent  with 
NEPAD’s  focus  on  agriculture  as  a  means  to  generate 
wealth and eradicate poverty. The Brazilian Agricultural 
Research  Corporation  —  a  State  company  —  recently 
established an office in Accra, with a view to supporting 
the  technological  and  productive  improvement  of  the 
African  savannah. 
the  most  comprehensive 
collection  of  data  on  tropical  agriculture  and  has 
provided assistance to over 30 countries in the region. 

Projects  aimed  at  improving  local  capacity  in 
livestock husbandry are being carried out together with 
Cape  Verde,  Senegal  and  Zambia.  Initiatives 
to 
improve family farming and rural professional training 
are  under  way  in  Angola,  Cameroon,  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
Liberia, Mozambique and Nigeria. Also in the field of 
agriculture training, the Brazilian Cooperation Agency 
offers a programme, open to all African countries, that 
is  structured  around  three  major  areas,  namely,  public 
agricultural policies,  agricultural  research and training 
of local producers. 

Mr.  Kleib  (Indonesia),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

Brazil has been a steadfast advocate for an early, 
development-geared  conclusion  of  the  Doha  Round. 
No other economic sector is more central to sustainable 
development than agriculture. In the framework of the 
Round,  Brazil  has  decided  to  unilaterally  grant  duty-
free  and  quota-free  access  for  exports  from  least 
developed countries, two thirds of which are in Africa. 
Furthermore, in order to increase the access of African 
producers  to  the  cotton  chain,  raise  the  income  of 
farmers and favour the expansion of job offers, Brazil 
has  engaged  in  technology-transfer  projects  with  the 
“cotton  4”  countries  —  namely,  Benin,  Burkina  Faso, 
Chad and Mali. 

We have also been working to strengthen regional 
political dialogue, with a view to broadening the scope 
and  number  of  developing  partners.  In  that  sense,  the 
Africa-South  America  Summit  constitutes  a  good 
example of innovative platforms for increased dialogue 
and cooperation. In the past six years, trade across the 
two regions has increased from $6 to $36 billion, thus 
contributing to the development of both South America 
and Africa. 
20 

10-58121 
Interregional  dialogue  has  also 



in 
improved cooperation on infrastructure, one of the key 
areas  of  NEPAD.  The  Declaration  of  Nueva  Esparta, 
signed in September 2009, encourages the exchange of 
experiences and initiatives in the area of infrastructure 
between  South  American  agencies  —  such  as  the 
Initiative for the Integration of Regional Infrastructure 
in  South America  and  the  Board  of  Infrastructure  and 
Planning of the Union of South American Nations and 
NEPAD. 

The  implications  of  health  for  the  overall  efforts 
to  promote  development  are  clear  and  have  been 
reaffirmed  in  a  number  of  internationally  agreed 
documents,  such  as 
the  Millennium  Declaration 
(resolution  55/2).  NEPAD  rightly  recognizes  the  close 
links  among  health,  poverty, 
social  exclusion, 
marginalization  and  environmental  degradation 
in 
Africa.  Brazil  fully  agrees  with  the  basic  principle  of 
NEPAD’s health strategy, namely, that preventable and 
treatable  diseases  not  only  cause  unnecessary  deaths 
and  untold  suffering,  but  also  represent  significant 
expenditures  of  national  resources,  which  further 
hampers economic and social development. 

Brazilian  cooperation  initiatives  therefore  attach 
great importance to creating and developing capacities 
in the area of health. We are currently partnering with 
Mozambique  to  develop  a  pharmaceutical  facility  to 
produce  antiretroviral  drugs  to  be  used  in  various 
African 
being 
implemented  in  countries  such  as  Liberia,  Burkina 
Faso, Botswana, Ghana and Zambia in order to support 
the improvement of national health systems. 
The  Brazilian  Government  is  deeply  committed 

fight  against  malaria.  Our 
the 
to 
engagement 
through  both  bilateral 
cooperation  and  participation  in  multilateral  efforts. 
Our  active  participation  in  the  Roll  Back  Malaria 
Partnership,  the  international  drug-purchasing  facility 
UNITAID,  and  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS, 
Tuberculosis and Malaria reflects that commitment. 

has  made 
remarkable progress in the past few years in the pursuit 
of  the  goals  of  achieving  universal  coverage  for 
malaria prevention and treatment by 2010 and reducing 
global  malaria  deaths  to  near  zero  preventable  deaths 
by  2015.  In  addition 
the  use  of 
insecticide-treated  nets,  it  is  imperative  that  national 
Governments  and  the  international  community  put  in 
countries.  Other 
is  manifested 
to  expanding 
international 
international 
projects 
are 
The 
community 
resulted 
A/65/PV.30
is  committed 
The  Brazilian  Government 
place mechanisms to ensure universal access to free or 
affordable  medicines  for  the  treatment  of  malaria  for 
those who are already affected. 

As  in  many  other  regions  of  the  world,  cases  of 
malaria  infections  in  Brazil  are  associated  with  the 
process of colonization. Today, the largest numbers of 
new  infections  are  found  in  cities.  However,  in  our 
national experience, it is possible to reduce the number 
of  cases  by  expanding  health  services  and  integrating 
control and care activities. 
to 

further strengthening the prevention and control of the 
infection in order to maintain a sustained reduction in 
cases  of  infection,  especially  in  the  most  vulnerable 
cities.  To  that  end,  we  have  launched  a  national 
programme for malaria control. With resources granted 
by  the  Global  Fund,  the  programme  aims  at  reducing 
by 50 per cent the number of cases of malaria in the 47 
municipalities  that  are  responsible  for  70  per  cent  of 
the infections recorded in Brazil. 

As  one  of  the  countries  afflicted  by  the  disease, 
Brazil  is  determined  to  work  with  the  international 
community  and  other  developing  countries,  especially 
in Africa,  in  order  to  free  the  world  of  the  scourge  of 
malaria. 
Mr. Benmehidi (Algeria) (spoke in French): This 

debate  on  the  implementation  of  the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development 
the 
international support it has received is taking place at a 
time  marked  by  the  ongoing  economic  and  social 
crisis, whose effects continue to be most pronounced in 
the  poorest  countries,  especially  in Africa,  despite  the 
emergence  of  some  encouraging  signs  of  resumed 
economic  growth.  This  meeting  is  also  being  held  on 
the heels of the General Assembly’s High-level Plenary 
Meeting  on  progress  in  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development Goals, which provided an opportunity to 
highlight  the  problems  and  challenges  facing  African 
countries  and  the  sorts  of  steps  needed  to  integrate 
them into the world economy. 
Algeria,  one  of  the  countries  that  contributed  to 

promoting 
for  Africa’s 
Development, would like to emphasize the importance 
of  this  innovative  mechanism,  which  provides  an 
appropriate  framework  for  developing  partnerships 
based  on  a  new  approach 
to  cooperation  and 
development in Africa. 
the  New  Partnership 
(NEPAD) 
and 
10-58121 

21 

and 
that 
technologies, 
A/65/PV.30 

NEPAD  is  both  an  integrated  strategy  and  a 

development  framework 
incorporates  Africa’s 
commitment to undertake effective leadership in taking 
control of its destiny and all aspects of its development 
process,  with  the  ultimate  goal  of  consolidating  good 
governance,  peace  and  security  and  regional  and 
continent-wide  integration.  Policies  in  that  framework 
are  focused  on  priority  issues  like  macroeconomic 
stability,  the  establishment  of  basic  infrastructure,  the 
promotion of human development and information and 
communications 
combating 
pandemic diseases. 

Africa is a major economic development hub that 
is increasingly considered as a new area for investment 
and  global  economic  growth.  That  is  due  both  to  the 
continent’s  substantial  natural  resources  and  to  the 
progress  made  in  economic  governance  as  a  result  of 
major  efforts  to  reform  monetary,  budgetary  and 
financial  policies  and  of  the  macroeconomic  stability 
enjoyed  by  many  African  countries.  Consequently, 
Africa  should  no  longer  remain  on  the  sidelines  of 
international  decision-making  processes  or  be  content 
to passively endure the adverse consequences. 

As  part  of  its  institutional  process  to  implement 
NEPAD, the African Union has put in place a Planning 
and  Coordinating  Agency  to  replace  the  NEPAD 
secretariat,  thereby  signalling  the  effective  transition 
from  the  awareness-raising  stage  to  those  of  carrying 
out  regional  and  continent-wide  projects  and  of 
integrating  NEPAD  into  the  Union’s  structures.  That 
integration-based 
greater 
effectiveness  in  taking  responsibility  for  programmes 
and  activities  and  in  encouraging  our  development 
partners to fully honour their commitments with regard 
to the implementation of NEPAD. 
NEPAD  as  an  African  strategy  for  sustainable 

development  and 
the  Peer  Review  Mechanism 
established by it to strengthen good governance and the 
rule  of  law  in  the  continent  are  major  assets  in  the 
annals  of  Africa’s  substantial  achievements.  The  Peer 
Review  Mechanism  is  continuing  to  strengthen  its 
position  as  a  tool  to  promote  good  governance  in 
Africa. More than 30 African countries have adhered to 
it  to  date,  and  14  have  been  examined.  Algeria  was 
among the first African countries to voluntarily submit 
itself  to  the  Peer  Review  Mechanism,  reflecting  our 
desire to enshrine good governance in all areas. 
approach 
ensure 
can 
and 
level  of 
information 
infrastructure 

Also, in spite of the gaps and obstacles yet to be 
overcome, Africa  is  today  in  a  position  submit  a  very 
respectable report on the results it has achieved in the 
various priority areas. 
Key sectors such as agriculture, the environment, 

basic 
and 
telecommunication technologies are now the subject of 
ongoing  attention  in  Africa.  Projects  in  those  areas 
require significant financing, which African economies 
can  only  partially  mobilize.  Infrastructure  investment 
needs  in Africa  amount  to  $93  billion  annually,  while 
the continent is only able to devote $45 billion a year 
to them. 

The fight against pandemic diseases is among the 
priorities  of  African  leaders  and  has  been  integrated 
into NEPAD strategies. Malaria continues to kill nearly 
1 million Africans every year. It also affects millions of 
people,  most  of  them  pregnant  women  and  young 
children.  In  addition,  the  costs  in  terms  of  investment 
losses  amount  to  some  $12  billion. Algeria  welcomes 
the  initiative  by  some African  countries  to  launch  the 
African Leaders Malaria Alliance, which is intended to 
complement  efforts  to  combat  that  disease  at  the 
highest 
local 
policies  and  strategies.  Its  success  will  depend  upon 
the  degree  of  involvement  of  African  countries  in 
implementing it, but above all on the type of assistance 
to be provided by development partners. 

In addition, significant progress has been made in 
implementing  the  Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture 
Development Programme, thanks to the fact that many 
countries  have  honoured  their  commitment  to  devote 
10 per cent of their budgets to agriculture. 

Moreover, the information and telecommunications 
technologies action plan for Africa was firmly supported 
at the African Union Summit held in Kampala in 2010. 
The  support  of  the  international  community  to 

to  be 
African  countries  nevertheless  continues 
the  marked 
insufficient,  especially 
backwardness  resulting  from 
long 
marginalization from the world economy and the major 
challenges  to  be  overcome  in  the  various  sectors.  My 
delegation  is  convinced  that  relaunching  sustained 
economic growth on the African continent will depend 
upon the implementation of a strengthened partnership 
with  development  partners 
the  reforms 
undertaken  by  African  countries  are  matched  by 
sustained support from developed countries. 
international,  national  and 
the  continent’s 
in  view  of 
in  which 
22 

10-58121 
to 


Developed  countries  must  take  concrete  steps  to 

relaunch  African  economies.  Such  steps 
include 
facilitating  access  to  their  markets,  especially  for 
agricultural  products,  so  as 
increase  Africa’s 
participation  in  world  trade.  They  must  also  honour 
their commitments with regard to official development 
assistance  (ODA),  especially  with  regard  to  devoting 
0.7 per cent of gross national product to ODA, as well 
as  commitments  made  in  more  restricted  forums  such 
as the Group of Eight. 

Other  measures  by  developed  countries  should 
include  encouraging  more  foreign  direct  investment 
flows  to African  countries  with  a  view  to  relaunching 
economic  growth,  creating  jobs  and  contributing  to 
poverty  reduction.  There  should  be  debt  relief  or 
cancellation for least developed African countries. 

In  conclusion,  Algeria  would  like  to  express  its 
appreciation  for  the  contributions  and  commitment 
shown  by  numerous  partners,  which  have  made  it 
possible  to  make  progress  in  the  areas  of  good 
governance  and  sustainable  development.  We  call  for 
greater such efforts. 
Mr.  Reuben  (Israel): At  the  outset,  Israel  would 

like  to  congratulate  the  President  on  his  election.  We 
look forward to his successful stewardship of the work 
of  the  General  Assembly.  I  would  also  like  to  thank 
him for convening this important debate. 

Israel  welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s  eighth 
consolidated  progress  report  on  the  New  Partnership 
for Africa’s Development (A/65/167). The report raises 
important issues and highlights significant projects that 
are  positively  affecting  the  development  trajectory  of 
African  countries.  In  the  wake  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals summit, today’s debate offers new 
opportunities 
the  development 
challenges unique to African countries and to recommit 
ourselves to programmes that will be successful in the 
region. 
Israel  has  long-standing  ties  to  Africa.  In  fact, 

Theodor  Herzl,  the  father  of  Zionism,  wrote  in  his 
1902  book  Altneuland,  “once  I  have  witnessed  the 
redemption  of  the  Jews,  my  people,  I  wish  also  to 
assist in the redemption of the Africans”. Many of our 
strong cooperative relationships in the region began in 
1958 during an historic visit to the newly independent 
States  of  Africa  by  Golda  Meir,  Israel’s  Foreign 
Minister  at 
time.  Recently,  Foreign  Minister 
Avigdor  Liberman  visited  a  number  of  African 
to  home 
in  on 
the 
A/65/PV.30
Israel’s 
international 
to  deepen  Israel’s 
countries  as  part  of  a  drive 
commitment to development on the continent. 

agency, 
development 
MASHAV, is at the heart of our development efforts in 
Africa. MASHAV works closely with many partners on 
the continent in areas such as sustainable development, 
public  health,  food  security,  education  and  gender 
equality,  while  placing  significant  focus  on 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  Allow  me  to  share 
with the Assembly some of Israel’s development efforts 
on the continent. 

Israel is providing its significant expertise in the 
area of agriculture to partner with African countries to 
fight  hunger  and  extreme  poverty. As  an  arid  country 
with a climate similar to many regions in Africa, Israel 
continues  to  offer  lessons  learned  during  its  own 
development  through  a  number  of  programmes  and 
partnerships. One such venture, the Techno-agricultural 
Innovation  for  Poverty  Alleviation,  trains  farmers  in 
the use of simple and inexpensive techniques, such  as 
crop rotation and drip irrigation, in order to maximize 
output on formerly overused or arid land. 
In  addition,  Israel  recently  launched  a  trilateral 

partnership  with  the  Governments  of  Germany  and 
Ethiopia to assist Ethiopian farmers to adopt advanced 
agricultural  practices,  which  will  help 
to  ensure 
sustainable  development  and  improve  food  security. 
That  trilateral  collaboration  highlights  the  significant 
value of diversifying partnerships. 
its  co-sponsored  biennial 

for 
resolution  entitled  “Agricultural  Technology 
Development”,  Israel  has  been  working  to  further 
develop  and  expand  such  partnerships.  The  resolution 
calls upon Member States to cooperate and collaborate 
to  develop  and  implement  sustainable  agricultural 
technologies as a means to combat poverty and hunger 
and  to  ensure  better  production  and  safer  land  use.  In 
pursuing  the  call  of  the  resolution,  Israel  has  been 
working  to  ensure  that  agricultural  technologies  reach 
areas  where  they  can  have  the  greatest  development 
impact. 

Empowering  women  in  Africa  is  essential  for 
achieving  a  model  of  truly  sustainable  development. 
Israel is engaged in a number of efforts to that end. We 
are promoting women’s entrepreneurship in small-scale 
agriculture by providing specialized courses for women 
across  the  continent  and  by  improving  education 
through teacher-training programmes. 
implementing 
In 
10-58121 

23 

in 
treating  HIV 
A/65/PV.30 

Israel  is  also  working  to  empower  women  by 

improving  prenatal  and  neonatal  care 
through  a 
concept known as tipat chalav, which means  “drop of 
milk”  in  Hebrew.  Currently  being  implemented  in 
Kumasi,  Ghana,  the  tipat  chalav  model  includes  the 
use  of  community-based  prenatal  and  healthy-baby 
clinics  staffed  primarily  by  public  health  nurses.  This 
model  has  demonstrated  dramatic  improvements  in 
health,  including  reductions  in  the  rates  of  infant  and 
maternal mortality. 

In  the  area  of  health,  Israel  is  also  closely 
engaged  in  the  fight  to  combat  HIV/AIDS  in  Africa. 
Israel’s role in that effort includes training health-care 
professionals 
and  managing 
educational  programmes  to  promote  sexual  health 
among  adolescents,  who  are  at  the  greatest  risk  of 
contracting the disease. 

Israel  recognizes  the  need  to  devote  further 
attention to these matters moving forward. To that end, 
Israel  is  marking  International  Development  Day  by 
organizing  a  round-table  discussion  on  the  challenges 
of development. 
The  challenges  before  us  are  great,  but  Israel 

remains  deeply  committed  to  collaborating  with  other 
nations to achieve the Millennium Development Goals 
in Africa. Israel recognizes that pursuing the Goals will 
not only bring enhanced peace and security for all, but 
will  also  affirm  the  timeless  value  of  tikkun  olam,  a 
Jewish  principle  that  mandates  us  to  repair  the  world, 
to  help  those  in  need  and  to  better  the  lives  of  those 
around the globe. 
Mr. Charan Das Mahant (India): I am honoured 

to speak on behalf of India at today’s joint debate on the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD). 
Let me begin by thanking the Secretary-General for his 
reports  on 
items  under  discussion  (A/65/152, 
A/65/165),  including  the  eighth  consolidated  progress 
report  on  implementation  and  international  support  for 
NEPAD (A/65/167). 

We  align  ourselves  with  the  statement  delivered 
by the representative of Yemen on behalf of the Group 
of 77 and China. 

The  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
articulates both a vision and a strategic socio-economic 
development  framework  for  Africa.  It  reflects  the 
commitment  of  African  countries  to  undertake  their 
the 
in 
the 
into 
Despite 
implementation  of 
for  Africa’s  Development 
own development programmes and the commitment of 
the international community to support those efforts. 

India  applauds  the  progress  achieved  by African 
countries 
the  NEPAD 
priorities  through  the  various  multisectoral  initiatives. 
We  further  welcome  the  integration  of  the  New 
Partnership 
the 
structures and processes of the African Union through, 
inter  alia,  the  establishment  of  the  NEPAD  Planning 
and  Coordinating  Agency  as  a  technical  body  of  the 
African Union. 

those  positive  developments,  serious 
challenges  remain  to  be  addressed  before  the  African 
continent can achieve sustainable peace and prosperity. 
Most African countries remain off track with respect to 
achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs).  Conflict,  poverty,  lack  of  adequate  nutrition 
and other malaises continue to shackle the tremendous 
potential of the African people. 

It  is  universally  acknowledged  that  addressing 
Africa’s  development  needs  and  challenges  requires 
unwavering  commitment  and  resolute  action  not  only 
from  within  Africa,  but,  equally  important,  from 
outside  the  continent  by  its  partners.  That  must  take 
place  through  sustained  cooperation  that  includes  the 
transfer  of  resources  and  technology  and  an  enabling 
international environment. The role of the international 
community  in  Africa’s  development  is  indispensable 
and crucial. 

That  is  recognized  in  a  number  of  multilateral 
and  bilateral  initiatives  directed  at  Africa.  It  is  also 
recognized  in  a  number  of  international  conferences 
and summits, including the General Assembly’s recent 
High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  that  brought  into  sharp  focus  the 
special needs of Africa and the urgency of galvanizing 
international  efforts.  It  is  further  articulated  in  a 
number of declarations, resolutions and plans of action 
in  support  of  Africa 
to  which 
international 
community has pledged adherence. 

In spite of the commitments and initiatives, there 
is  a  gap  between  promise  and  delivery  on  the  part  of 
the international community that needs to be addressed 
on a priority basis. 

First  and  foremost,  NEPAD  can  succeed  only  if 
the  global  partnership  delivers  in  terms  of  resources. 
The  picture  on  the  ground  is  not  inspiring.  It  is 
the 
24 

10-58121 
the  entire 
development, 


estimated that official development assistance to Africa 
reached $44 billion in 2009. That leaves a shortfall of 
$16  billion  relative  to  the  target  set  by  the  Group  of 
Eight at the Gleneagles summit in 2005. We would like 
to stress the importance of the urgent fulfilment of the 
commitments made by the G-8 in 2005. 

India’s own links with Africa go back a long way 
and are anchored in a history of contact and friendship 
of civilizations across the Indian Ocean. Our friendship 
and  cooperation  have  been 
further  strengthened 
through  a  common  journey  of  anti  colonial  struggle 
and post-colonial nation-building. 

Today,  our  long  and  historic  relationship  has 
evolved  into  a  sustainable  and  enduring  partnership 
that  embraces 
spectrum  of  human 
engagement. In the economic realm, it translates into a 
vibrant  economic  partnership  that  covers,  inter  alia, 
infrastructure 
capacity-building, 
agriculture,  health,  food  security,  development  of 
small-  and  medium-sized  enterprises,  and  information 
and communications technology. 

India  has  so  far  extended  over  $3  billion  in 
concessional lines of credit to countries in Africa. They 
have been used in projects as prioritized by the African 
countries  themselves.  During  the  India-Africa  Forum 
Summit held in April 2008 in New Delhi, India decided 
to extend additional lines of credit of $5.4 billion over 
the  next  five  years, 
including  an  allocation  of  
$300  million  to  be  utilized  by  the  African  Union  in 
support of NEPAD objectives. That line of credit is in 
addition to the $200 million line of credit extended to 
NEPAD in 2002, most of which stands utilized. 

At  the  same  time,  India  proposed  to  undertake 
projects  against  grants  in  excess  of  $500  million  over 
the next five to six years. They are being implemented 
in consultation with our African partners. India is also 
unilaterally  making  available  duty-free  and  quota-free 
market  access  for  goods  from  34  least  developed 
countries (LDCs) in Africa. That covers 94 per cent of 
India’s  total  tariff  lines  and  provides  preferential 
market  access  on  tariff  lines  that  comprise  92.5  per 
cent of global exports of all LDCs. 
The Pan African e-Network Project is another far-

reaching  initiative  undertaken  by  India  in  Africa.  It 
aims  at  sharing  our  expertise  in  health  care  and 
education. 
to 
transferring skills and technology to Africa by bridging 
the digital divide within the framework of South-South 
India’s  commitment 
It  symbolizes 
A/65/PV.30
the 
our 
long-term 
Indian  Technical 
India  has  also  been  at 
The President returned to the Chair. 
Through 
cooperation.  It  will  connect  53 African  countries  into 
one  network 
through  satellites,  fibre  optics  and 
wireless  links  to  provide  tele-education,  tele-medicine 
and  voice  and  video  conference  facilities.  We  expect 
the  project  to  bring  major  benefits  to  Africa  in 
capacity-building. 

forefront  of 
contributing  to  Africa’s  human  resource  development 
efforts.  The 
and  Economic 
Cooperation  Programme  has  benefited  thousands  of 
experts  and  students  from  Africa  who  have  been 
coming  to  India  since  1964  for  training  courses  at 
professional institutions. Apart from providing experts, 
we  are  also providing  training to African personnel in 
diverse fields, such as agriculture and agro-processing, 
entrepreneurship  development, 
tool  design,  small 
business creation, the promotion of rural industries and 
information  technology.  In  addition,  several  thousand 
African  students  are  currently  studying  in  Indian 
universities and colleges. 


in 
peacekeeping efforts on the continent over the past six 
decades, India has also been a steadfast contributor to 
the  maintenance  of  peace  and  security  in  conflict-torn 
regions  of  Africa.  Presently,  India  has  over  7,000 
peacekeepers  serving  in  Africa,  including  a  4,000-
strong  contingent  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo.  India’s  first  all-female  police  unit  serves  with 
distinction  in  Liberia.  It  has  earned  laurels  for  its 
pioneering  role  in  this  regard  which,  in  addition  to 
normal  peacekeeping,  has  included  their  successful 
outreach to vulnerable  sections of society, particularly 
women and children. 
India  is  steadfastly  committed  to  the  peace, 

stability  and  socio  economic  development  of  Africa. 
India and Africa are joined together in a common quest 
for sustainable economic growth and development. The 
Delhi Declaration and the Africa-India  Framework for 
Cooperation,  which  was  adopted  during  the  landmark 
India-Africa  Forum  Summit  held  in  Delhi  in  April 
2008,  contain  a  blueprint  for  further  intensifying  the 
engagement  between  India  and  Africa.  We  will 
continue to accord the highest priority to furthering our 
multidimensional  partnership  with  Africa,  which 
encompasses 
the 
developmental goals of Africa. 
involvement 
priority 
sectors 
integral 
to 
10-58121 

25 

in 
to 
associates 
take  part 
itself  with 
My  delegation 
that  have  arisen 
A/65/PV.30 

Mr. Iziraren (Morocco) (spoke in French): I am 

pleased 
these  discussions  on 
development  in  the African  continent,  and  I  thank  the 
Secretary-General for the  quality of his reports on the 
subject (A/65/152, A/65/165 and A/65/167). 

the 
statements  made  by  the  representative  of  Yemen  on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  and  by  the 
representative  of  Malawi  on  behalf  of  the  African 
Group. 
The countries of Africa have shown genuine will 

and have established bold policies leading to real gains 
in  solidifying  democratic  progress  and  the  realization 
of  development  goals.  That  will  and  those  policies 
have  nevertheless  come  face  to  face  with  the  several 
crises 
in  recent  years.  African 
countries  have  been  unable  to  mobilize  the  necessary 
resources to carry out the reform that has been started. 
What  is  more,  delivery  on  the  pledges  made  by  their 
development  partners  has  considerably  dipped  at  the 
very  moment  when Africa  especially  needs  continued 
international  assistance.  Much  of  what  has  been 
achieved  towards  the  realization  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) has thus been set back by 
the  immediate  effects  of  the  various  crises  and  by 
diminished  aid  from  partners.  In  addition  to  those 
challenges  we  must  also  add  climate  change,  which 
will  certainly  affect  the  development  prospects  of  the 
continent. 

The  economic  difficulties  brought  on  by  the 
financial  crisis  have  adversely  affected  African 
economies  and  significantly  limited  their  ability  to 
finance  their  development.  Mean  economic  growth 
rates  in Africa  in  2008  and  2009  —  4.5  per  cent  and 
1.6  per  cent  respectively  —  and  the  estimated  2010 
rate of 4.3 per cent are still well below the 7 per cent 
considered  necessary  for  African  nations  to  achieve 
their  development  goals.  Moreover,  financial  flows  to 
the  continent,  whether  official  development  assistance 
or foreign direct investment, have not reached the level 
necessary to sustain the efforts of African countries or 
to meet their development needs. 

In  terms  of  official  development  assistance,  it 
should be noted that the economic report on Africa for 
2010  emphasizes  that  aid  to  Africa,  which  grew  by 
only 11 per cent in 2008, could experience a decrease 
in  2010,  and  that  anticipated  reduction  in  aid  flow 
in 
to 
conducive 
investment 
international 
in  achieving 
endangers  the  achievement  of  the  MDGs  in  the  poor 
countries of the continent. 

Africa  has  also  been  among  the  continents  most 
affected  by  retrenchment  in  foreign  direct  investment, 
with a reduction of 35 per cent from 2008 to 2009. It is 
not  by  chance,  then,  that  Africa,  which  receives  only 
about 2 per cent of total foreign direct investment, lags 
behind 
the  MDGs.  Establishing  an 
environment 
and 
entrepreneurship  in  Africa  is  therefore  critical.  To 
promote investment on the continent, where the need to 
fight  poverty  is  overwhelming,  Morocco  proposes  the 
convening, in the framework of the General Assembly, 
of a high-level meeting on investment in Africa. 

Any  delay  in  concluding  the  Doha  Round  trade 
agreements  can  only  penalize  African  economies, 
whose  participation 
trade  hardly 
exceeded  3.2  per  cent  in  2008.  Putting  in  place  a 
multilateral  trading  system  that  honours  the  centrality 
of  development  and  is  more  favourable  to  African 
countries  is  of  vital  importance.  Improving  access  to 
markets  for  African  countries,  while  necessary,  is 
nonetheless insufficient. Any progress in market access 
must be accompanied by aid focused on strengthening 
African  countries’  capacity  for  both  production  and 
trade. 

to 
greenhouse  gas  emissions  is  negligible  —  barely  over  
4  per  cent  —  is  highly  vulnerable  to  the  effects  of 
climate  change. Agriculture,  the  driving  force  of  most 
African  economies,  making  up  around  50  per  cent  of 
the  continent’s  exports  and  21  per  cent  of  its  gross 
domestic  product,  is  especially  vulnerable  to  climate 
change.  The  Intergovernmental  Panel  on  Climate 
Change  has  projected  a  50  per  cent  reduction  in  rain-
fed agriculture in Africa, very likely provoking serious 
socio  economic  tensions  in  the  countries  of  the 
continent.  In  that  regard,  the  international  community 
is  clearly  called  on  to  redouble  its  efforts  to  make 
available  to  Africa  the  means  necessary  to  adapt  to 
climate change and to attenuate its social and economic 
impact. 

The  outcome  document  of  the  Meeting  on  the 
MDGs  (resolution  65/1)  underlined  that Africa  should 
receive  greater  attention.  It  also  constituted  a  call  for 
the  pledges  of  aid  made  to  the  continent  to  be 
honoured, inasmuch as assistance is currently not at the 
levels 
these 
that  have  been  pledged.  Given 
Moreover,  Africa,  whose 
contribution 
26 

10-58121 
it 
is  of 
to  Africa 
for  not  honouring  pledges 


circumstances, 
the  utmost  urgency  for 
development  partners  to  honour  their  commitments  to 
Africa on official development assistance, starting with 
the pledges made at the Gleneagles Summit. 

Morocco welcomes the Muskoka Initiative, which 
was  launched  by  the  Group  of  Eight  to  accelerate 
progress  in  attaining  the  Millennium  Goals  on  infant 
mortality and maternal health in the next five years. We 
believe  that  implementing  the  Initiative  is  of  the 
highest importance. 
While  the  economic  crisis  should  not  be  an 

excuse 
for  African 
development,  new  instruments  of  international  aid 
should  receive  careful  attention.  The  search  for 
innovative 
financing,  which  has  proven  very 
promising,  would  allow  us  to  supplement  traditional 
financing.  Innovative  initiatives  undertaken  thus  far 
have  proven  ever  more  successful,  encouraging  more 
exploration.  Ensuring  regular  and efficient delivery  of 
the  commitments  made 
is  of  critical 
importance  so  as  to  allow  the  continent  to  achieve  its 
development objectives. 
In  that  regard,  Morocco  thanks  the  Secretary-

General  for  his  report  on  a  monitoring  mechanism  to 
review  commitments  towards  Africa’s  development 
needs  (A/65/165).  The  report  informs  us  of  important 
aspects of follow up on pledges of aid to the continent 
and  also  contains  incisive  proposals  for  an  improved 
follow  up  mechanism  that  would  allow  us  to  better 
evaluate  the  effectiveness  of  development  aid  to 
Africa. 

His Majesty Mohammed VI, King of Morocco, in 
his  speech  at  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
summit  held  on  20  and  21  September,  underlined  that 
Morocco  had  “made  human  development  and  the 
achievement  of  the  MDGs  the  core  of  a  practical, 
innovative  South-South  cooperation  policy,  especially 
with regard to sister African nations” (A/65/PV.4, p. 6). 

Human  development  is  one  of  the  key  thrusts  of 
Morocco’s  cooperation  with  its  African  partners,  by 
which  we  have  established  and  carried  out  specific 
projects 
the 
achievement  of  the  MDGs,  such  as  health,  drinking 
water,  agriculture  and  irrigation  techniques,  fisheries, 
food 
infrastructure, 
training,  transport  and  housing.  The  private  sector  in 
Morocco  also  promotes  such  cooperation  through  the 
investment  and  expertise  that  it  brings,  making  an 
in  areas  with  a  direct  bearing  on 
security,  combating 
locusts, 
A/65/PV.30
to 
like 
I  would 
In  conclusion, 
the  ongoing  economic 
enormous  contribution 
impact. 

In  terms  of  training,  more  than  9,000  foreign 
students  from  73  countries,  including  37  African 
nations,  are  now  studying  in  Morocco  in  public  post-
secondary,  technical  and  vocational  institutions.  More 
than 80 per cent of those students receive scholarships 
from the Moroccan Government. 

With  respect  to  promoting  trade  within  Africa, 
Morocco,  under  a  royal  decree  of  2000,  has  taken  the 
decision  to  open  its  national  markets  to  exports  from 
Africa’s least developed countries, free of excise duties 
and  restrictions.  That  decision  has  had  a  positive 
impact  on  exports  from  such  countries  to  Morocco. 
Also  thanks  to  royal  directives,  Morocco  has  forgiven 
the  bilateral  debt  of  a  number  of African  countries  on 
several  occasions.  Emergency  humanitarian  aid  is 
another  priority  for  His  Majesty  the  King,  who  has 
responded 
to  every  appeal  for  assistance  during 
disasters. 

to  emphasize 
Morocco’s  ongoing  commitment  to  developing  the 
African continent. I reiterate my country’s call for the 
establishment  of  a  genuine  global  partnership  for 
Africa  that  is  capable  of  dealing  with  the  challenges 
facing  the  continent  and  that  includes  a  specific 
timetable  for  implementation  and  an  effective  follow-
up mechanism. 
Mr. Ndiaye (Senegal) (spoke in French): It is my 

pleasant duty to congratulate you, Mr. President, and to 
wish  you  the  greatest  success  in  your  presidency.  On 
behalf  of  Senegal,  I  would  also  like  to  thank  you  for 
convening 
the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),  as 
well  as  to  express  my  delegation’s  thanks  to  the 
Secretariat and the Secretary-General for the quality of 
the  reports  before  us  (A/65/152,  A/65/165,  A/65/167) 
and the relevant recommendations they contain. 
NEPAD,  based  on  an  African  culture  of 

development,  is  the  bearer  of  a  new  concept  of  the 
nature and orientation of the relationship Africa should 
have with the rest of the world, that is, one based on a 
true  partnership  going 
forward.  This  ambitious 
programme  involves  not  only  Africa,  which  bears 
primary  responsibility  for  its  own  development,  but 
also  calls  for  action  by  the  rest  of  the  international 
community  to  support  our  continent  in  its  untiring 
important  debate  on 
this 
10-58121 

27 
to  free 
the 

itself  from 
trap  of  endemic 
A/65/PV.30 

efforts 
underdevelopment. 

It  has  been  said  today  that  during  the  first  nine 
years  of  NEPAD’s  existence,  Africa  has  made 
significant progress on many fronts, particularly in the 
areas  of  eliminating  hot  spots  and  returning 
to 
economic growth, good governance and democracy, as 
well  as  promoting  human  rights  and  gender  equality. 
We  must,  however,  agree  that  despite  encouraging 
signs  mentioned  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report 
(A/65/167),  progress  continues 
to  be  slow  and 
difficulties  continue  to  be  a  drag  on  our  continent’s 
future.  Indeed,  in  many  other  areas  the  picture  is  a 
sombre  one,  aggravated  by  the  recent  crises  that  have 
kept Africa mired in inextricable difficulties and put it 
at a crossroads in its quest for development. 

Even more disturbing and serious are the soaring 
statistics  on  poverty,  which  now  affects  almost  two 
fifths of Africa’s population; HIV infections, afflicting 
more than 20 million people; malaria, with nine deaths 
out of 10, on a global scale, occurring in Africa; and on 
infant  and  maternal  mortality.  To  these  recurring 
problems are added the familiar litany of other factors 
that  continue  to  vex  the  international  debate  on 
development.  Among  others,  we  have  rising  famine 
and  unemployment,  farming  subsidies  that  severely 
undermine  free  trade,  an  intolerable  debt  burden  and 
the  energy  crisis,  which  results  in  collateral  damage 
such  as  abrupt,  uncontrolled  fluctuations  in  oil  prices. 
Clearly,  Africa  will  have  a  tough  time  getting  its 
economy  to  take  off  if  it  cannot  leave  behind  these 
innumerable constraints. 

It is by respecting its promises and its consequent 
financing  efforts  that  the  international  community  can 
really help Africa,  as the  Secretary-General has  called 
for.  Today,  the  implementation  of  NEPAD’s  sectoral 
priorities  has  opened  up  several  areas  whose  success 
requires  genuine 
support.  As  one 
example,  according 
the  World  Bank,  Africa’s 
infrastructure  needs  have  now  reached  $93  billion, 
while the continent itself can provide only $45 billion. 
That  is  just  one  of  many  possible  examples  that  show 
that  the  hoped-for  effects  of  the  global  partnership 
have  been  slow 
level  of  declared 
expectations and ambitions. As I noted previously, the 
need for international support does not diminish in any 
way the primary responsibility that each State bears for 
implementing its own development. 
international 
to  reach 
the 
to 
is  a  powerful 

With  regard  to  the  report,  Senegal  welcomes  the 
Secretary-General’s  recommendations,  which  call  on 
African countries to strengthen the capacity of regional 
economic communities to carry out NEPAD’s regional 
projects. Almost  a  decade  since  NEPAD’s  launch,  the 
integration of its executive secretariat into the African 
Union  and  the  creation,  in  February,  of  the  NEPAD 
Planning  and  Coordination  Agency  are  a  response  to 
African  countries’  firm  determination  to  strengthen 
their institutional capacity. That desire is also reflected 
in  the  strengthening  of  the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism,  which 
instrument  for 
promoting good governance; the 10 per cent increase in 
public  agricultural  spending,  in  accordance  with  the 
Maputo  Declaration;  and  the  effort  to  protect  the 
environment through the ambitious project to build the 
Green Wall, which will cross the Sahel from Dakar to 
Djibouti. 

Development  in  Africa  of  necessity  requires  the 
establishment  of  stability  and  lasting  peace.  In  this 
regard,  we  welcome  the  return  of  our  neighbour 
Guinea-Bissau  to  constitutional  order,  as  well  as  the 
democratization process that has unfolded in our sister 
republic of Guinea, which is preparing to organize the 
second round of its presidential elections in the coming 
weeks.  Senegal,  which  has  an  unshakable  faith  in  the 
genius of the Guinean people, reiterates its unswerving 
support  in  brotherhood  and  friendship  for  Guinea  at 
this  delicate  stage  in  its  journey  towards  stability, 
harmony and progress. 

the 
is 
upcoming  presidential  election  to  be  held  in  Côte 
d’Ivoire.  We  have  no  doubt  that  this  great  African 
people, in a glorious surge of patriotism, will do what 
they  must  to  demonstrate  once  more  to  the  watching 
world  their  capacity  to  outdo  themselves,  as  well  as 
their  attachment  to  the  cardinal  virtues  of  democracy, 
justice and peace, so dear to the founding father of the 
Ivorian State, former President Houphouët Boigny. We 
express the same desire for peace and restored stability 
for  the  Niger,  Madagascar,  Somalia  and  the  Sudan, 
which  all  deserve  the  constant  attention  of  the  United 
Nations for a definitive return to peace. 
In  her  well-known  work  entitled  What  if  Africa 

Rejected  Development?,  about  which 
the  most 
informed analysts on issues of African development are 
divided,  writer  Axelle  Kabou  asks  sceptically  about 
Africa’s  future  while  also  questioning  all  the  actors 
involved.  For  us  in  Senegal  the  answer  is  no.  No,  we 
likewise  pleased  with 
My  country 
28 

10-58121 
far 
the 
Organization 
During  a  ministerial  meeting  on 


are  not  rejecting  development.  Africa,  that  strangled 
continent, to paraphrase René Dumont, is moving with 
great  determination  and  selfless  abnegation  to  emerge 
from  the  labyrinth  of  poverty.  However,  Africa  is 
running  up  against  major  obstacles,  both  of  its  own 
making  as  well  as  caused  by  outside  forces. The  only 
way for Africa to extricate itself from that situation is 
through  a  framework  of  a  genuine,  sincere,  fair  and 
equitable  partnership, 
from  seldom 
removed 
respected promises and commitments. 

least 
developed  countries  held  recently in Lisbon, Portugal, 
Director-General  of  the  United  Nations  Industrial 
Development 
Kandeh  Yumkella 
expressed  his  astonishment  at  the  fact  that  “Africa  is 
both  the  richest  and  the  poorest  continent”  on  Earth 
with, inter alia, 25 per cent of the world’s oil reserves 
and  30  to  40  per  cent  of  its  bauxite  reserves.  That 
speaks to the urgency of the need for the international 
community  to  correct  this  major  contradiction  and  to 
seriously work for Africa to economically take off. 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian): The priority given today to African issues in 
the work of the United Nations and other international 
forums,  including  the  Group  of  Eight  (G-8)  and  the 
Group of 20, is absolutely appropriate. On the African 
continent, developments are unfolding that will define 
not  only  the  face  of Africa  for  the  long  term  but  also 
the general progress of humankind in implementing the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  The  search 
for  effective  solutions  aimed  at  ensuring  sustainable 
socio-economic  development  in Africa  was  justifiably 
considered  a  key  challenge  at  September’s  High-level 
Plenary Meeting on the MDGs. 

We  have  managed  to  achieve  some  positive 
results in the past five years. At the same time, there is 
a  serious  delay  in  implementing  the  MDGs  in  areas 
such as reducing child and maternal mortality, curbing 
the  HIV/AIDS  epidemic  and  achieving  health  and 
sanitation  targets.  It  is  important  that,  in  the  summit 
outcome  document  (resolution  65/1),  we  clearly 
reiterated  our  commitment  to  achieving  the  MDGs  in 
Africa,  which  is  disproportionately  suffering  from  the 
negative  consequences  of  the  global  financial  and 
economic  crisis,  from  food  and  energy  insecurity  and 
from climate change. 

One  of  the  critical  challenges  to  the  timely 
achievement of the MDGs in Africa is to implement the 
A/65/PV.30
the 
funds 
allocated 
the  goals  of 
for  ensuring  peace  and 
President  Dmitry  Medvedev, 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD). 
Russia has consistently championed this African Union 
initiative, which reflects the desire of African States to 
independently determine their future and take on major 
responsibility 
security, 
managing  the  economy,  the  rational  use  of  natural 
resources,  combating  corruption  and  effectively 
utilizing 
for  development 
assistance. 

congratulating 
African  leaders  on Africa  Day,  welcomed  their  steady 
progress  towards  deepening  political  and  economic 
integration  within 
the  African  Union  and  other 
organizations,  calling  it  a  credible  instrument  for 
dealing with the many challenges facing the region. 

The United Nations system has an important role 
with  regard  to  international  support  for  NEPAD.  We 
are  pleased  to  note  the  progress  achieved  by  the 
Organization  in  this  area,  as  well  as  the  uninterrupted 
and  coherent  nature  of  its  work  in  promoting  the 
implementation  of 
the  partnership. 
Mobilizing financial resources in support of NEPAD is 
of  critical  importance.  Unfortunately,  in  spite  of  the 
increase  in  assistance  to Africa  in  the  past  few  years, 
the  volume  of  assistance  still  does  not  meet  the 
commitments made. 

Russia  will  continue  to  make  its  contribution  to 
international  efforts  in  this  area.  To  date,  our  country 
has  written  off  $20  billion  worth  of  our  African 
partners’  debt.  Consultations  on  establishing  a 
mechanism for debt-for-aid swaps are being conducted 
with  Benin,  Zambia,  Madagascar,  Mozambique, 
Tanzania and Ethiopia. The total forecasted write-off is 
about  $547  million.  We  anticipate  a  Russian 
contribution  of  $50  million  to  the  Rapid  Social 
Response  Multi  Donor  Trust  Fund 
to  support 
vulnerable  countries,  especially  sub  Saharan  African 
States, 
the 
consequences  of  the  global  financial  and  economic 
crisis.  Countries  in  that  region  are  receiving  targeted 
humanitarian  assistance.  The  Russian  gross  domestic 
product  contribution  of  the  past  two  years  has  been 
used to help Guinea, Zimbabwe, Ethiopia, Somalia and 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 

Russia’s  financial  participation  is  continuing  in 
other  Africa-focused  efforts  in  the  G-8  and  under 
World Bank programmes and multilateral international 
initiatives on health, education and poverty eradication. 
to  provide  assistance 
in  overcoming 
10-58121 

29 

A/65/PV.30 

African  countries  also  enjoy  wide-ranging  preferential 
trade  treatment.  Traditional  export  goods  from  least 
developed countries are not assessed Russian import or 
customs 
tariffs.  Trade  with  Russia  has  exceeded 
$6 billion. 

Programmes  are  continuing  to  assist  in  the 
training  of  staff.  At  present,  Russian  institutions  of 
higher learning host more than 4,500 African students, 
about half of whom receive financial support from our 
federal  budget.  African  students  were  allocated  750 
Russian State scholarships for the 2009-2010 academic 
year. 

the  challenges  of  socio  economic 
progress  and  increasing  the  level  of  well-being  in 
Africa  can  be  promoted  as  well  by  developing 
investment  partnerships  with  Russian  companies.  The 
scope  of  such  partnerships  has  increased  significantly 
in  a  whole  range  of  economic  sectors,  including 
developing  oil  and  gas  deposits,  extracting  minerals 
and building hydroelectric and atomic energy facilities, 
as  well  as  in  more  sophisticated  fields  such  as  outer 
space, high-tech astrophysics and nuclear research. The 
volume  of  Russian  investment  in  Angola,  Algeria, 
Gabon,  Guinea,  Egypt,  Congo,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Libya, 
Namibia, the Niger, Nigeria and South Africa is in the 
billions of dollars. 
Meeting 

Russia attaches great importance to implementing 
the  goals  of  the  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria.  By  the 
end of this year, we will have completed the payment of 
our contribution of $20 million for the implementation 
of  the  World  Bank  programme  for  malaria  control  in 
Africa. We have also set aside $4 million for the World 
Health Organization’s programme to that end. 

In  that  regard,  Russia’s  contributions  have  been 
focused  on  Zambia  and  Mozambique  and  have  been 
used  for  the  purchase  of  about  300,000  long-acting 
mosquito  nets.  The  overall  efforts  of  the  international 
community  have  meant  that  in  Zambia,  for  example, 
malaria  is  no  longer  the  major  cause  of  early  infant 
mortality.  During  the  recent  meeting  of  the  third 
Voluntary  Replenishment  of  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight 
AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria,  Russia  stated  its 
intention to contribute up to $60 million for the period 
2011-2013, bringing our aggregate support to the Fund 
to $310 million. 

We  value  our  multifaceted  ties  with  Africa,  our 
reliable  and  time-tested  partner.  Russia’s  policy  is  to 
focus on further developing its interaction with Africa 
to  make  it  long-term  and  strategic.  President  Dmitry 
Medvedev  reiterated  that  policy  in  his  July  address  to 
African leaders, in which he especially emphasized the 
ever-broadening  nature,  new  positive  momentum  and 
diversified nature of our cooperation. 

The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m.
30 

10-58121 
