
A/65/PV.20
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

20th plenary meeting 
Monday, 27 September 2010, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 





  The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m. 

Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate 



  Address by Sir Michael Somare, Prime Minister 
of Papua New Guinea 

The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Papua New Guinea. 

Sir  Michael  Somare,  Prime  Minister  of  Papua 
New Guinea, was escorted to the rostrum. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  great 
pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Sir  Michael 
Somare,  Prime  Minister  of  Papua  New  Guinea,  and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
Sir  Michael  Somare  (Papua  New  Guinea):  First 

of  all,  let  me  join  other  delegations  in  offering 
congratulations to His Excellency Mr. Joseph Deiss on 
his  election  to  the  post  of  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-fifth session. With your guidance, 
Sir, my delegation is confident that we can discuss, in 
the spirit of cooperation, the different global challenges 
confronting us in order to further the common good of 
humankind. 

We are meeting at a time when the world is going 
through  some  mixed  developments.  While,  on  some 
parts  of  the  globe,  countries  are  experiencing  relative 
peace,  in  other  parts  they  are  embroiled  in  armed 
conflict. While  some  countries  are  enjoying  economic 
in 
the  progress 
to  continuing 
Papua  New  Guinea, 
growth  and  budget  surpluses,  others  are  experiencing 
economic stagnation or contraction. 

The focus at this session of the General Assembly 
on reviewing the progress on the implementation of the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 
is  most 
appropriate. The achievement of the eight cross-cutting 
Goals  we  set  for  ourselves  would  improve  the  quality 
of  life  of  all  of  our  peoples.  Just  last  week,  we 
concluded  a  stocktaking  of 
the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. 
While  the  results  on  the  scorecard  are  mixed,  the 
commitment  of  Member  States 
to 
implement  measures 
the  Millennium 
to  achieve 
Development Goals by 2015 is unequivocal. 

like  many  developing 
countries,  has  had  measured  success.  As  many  noted 
last  week,  the  global  economic  crisis  has  had  an 
adverse bearing on the implementation of the MDGs. I 
would add, however, that had the resources promised in 
2000 for implementing the MDGs been made available, 
the  assessment  sheet  for  many  developing  countries 
would  have  looked  more  positive.  Papua  New  Guinea 
applauds  the  commitment  of  $40  billion  for  poverty 
alleviation, especially to improve the health of children 
and  women.  It  is  our  hope  that  this  will  be  a  new 
resource 
old 
commitments. 

We  have  noted  the  calls  for  countries  to  take 
greater  ownership  of  the  implementation  of  the  eight 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  Papua  New  Guinea 
has  accepted  these  challenges. We  will  continue  to  do 
repackaged 
envelope 
and 
not 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-55128 (E) 
*1055128* 


A/65/PV.20 

all  we  can  to  meet  the  obligations  we  assumed  when 
we  joined  others  in  2000  to  adopt  the  Millennium 
Declaration (resolution 55/2).  

The  Permanent  Representative  of  Papua  New 
Guinea  to  the  United  Nations  outlined  in  detail  last 
week  our  country’s  efforts  to  achieve  the  MDGs  by 
2015. Allow  me  to  reiterate  some  of  the  main  actions 
we  are  taking.  Papua  New  Guinea  has  adapted  and 
localized  the  MDGs  by  establishing  15  targets  and  67 
indicators  within  our  medium-term  development 
strategy  for  the  period  2005  to  2010.  We  have 
calibrated  our  2011-2015  medium-term  development 
plan  and  designed  our  development  strategic  plan  to 
achieve  the  MDGs.  In  addition,  we  have  drafted  our 
2050  Vision  Statement  to  be  consistent  with  the 
Millennium Development Goals. 

Our  official  development  assistance  programmes 
with  our  donor  partners  are  being  gradually  realigned 
to  enable  Papua  New  Guinea  to  eventually  meet  its 
MDG targets. On a wider scale, we urge donor partners 
to  abide  by  the  principles  of  the  Paris  Declaration  on 
Aid Effectiveness and the Accra Agenda for Action. In 
the  Pacific,  we  have  adopted  the  Cairns  Compact  to 
better coordinate development assistance and to ensure 
effective  delivery.  Developed  countries  also  need  to 
raise  their  official  development  assistance  to  0.7  per 
cent  of  their  gross  national  income,  in  line  with  their 
commitments. 

In line with our commitment towards MDG 3, my 
Government  has  submitted  proposed  legislation  to  the 
Papua  New  Guinea  legislature  to  reserve  22  seats  for 
women  in  the  national  Parliament.  With  respect  to 
MDG  2,  we  have  introduced  a  universal  primary 
education policy and aim to achieve free primary-level 
education for all of our children by 2015. 

Papua  New  Guinea  is  under  no  illusion  that  the 
achievement  of  the  MDGs  is  a  unilateral  undertaking. 
This  is  a  joint  undertaking  between  developed  and 
developing  countries,  just  as  it  is  a  cooperative  effort 
between 
society 
organizations.  It  is  for  this  reason  that  my  country  is 
disappointed  that  MDG  8  on  a  global  partnership  for 
development  appears  to  attract  little  serious  interest 
from  the  developed  countries.  We  note  that  the  real 
value  of  aid  has  remained  constant  and  that  the  Doha 
Development Round remains an unfinished affair. 
Also  of  concern  to  us  is  the  inability  of  many 

developing countries to enjoy equitable treatment from 
the  Government 
and 
civil 
2 

the  Bretton  Woods  institutions.  Our  efforts  to  reduce 
deforestation  in  tropical  rain  forest  countries,  which  I 
will  touch  on  later,  have  met  with  the  same  apathetic 
response.  Despite  the  best  of  efforts  within  the World 
Trade  Organization  and  Asia  Pacific  Economic 
Cooperation forum processes, the international trading 
environment  continues 
to  be  characterized  by 
inequalities.  Often  less  visibly  but  still  harmfully, 
global  trade  continues  to  be  encumbered  by  trade 
protectionist measures. 

In the area of international peace and security, the 
world, unfortunately, is no safer today than it was when 
the  United  Nations  was  established.  War  continues  to 
be waged in Afghanistan. Iraq continues to suffer from 
regular  suicide  bombings.  The  Korean  peninsula 
continues to be a flashpoint in the Asia region, and the 
Middle East continues to be a hotbed of tension. 

Likewise,  regional  conflicts  and  ethnic  tensions 
continue  to  erupt  in  many  parts  of  Africa,  Latin 
America  and  Eastern  Europe.  The 
international 
community needs to do more to address these conflicts, 
especially the Afghanistan and Iraq issues. The fragile 
peace  and  global  security  environment  is  further 
exemplified by the continued presence of Blue Helmets 
in many parts of world. 

Papua  New  Guinea  commends  the  efforts  of 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  forces,  many  of  which 
have to operate in very trying circumstances. We wish 
to  thank  the  troop-contributing  countries  for  bearing 
this onerous responsibility on all our behalves. For our 
part,  I  am  pleased  to  announce  that  my  Government 
has  enacted  the  International  Obligations  Bill 
to 
provide  the  legal  framework  for  Papua  New  Guinea’s 
participation 
peacekeeping 
operations. 

Acts  of  terrorism  continue  and  the  threat  of 
another  terror  attack  on  a  scale  similar  to  that  of  9/11 
remains  real.  The 
international  community  must 
continue  to  strengthen  its  cooperation  to  address  this 
scourge. 

Nuclear weapons continue to cause anxiety in our 
security  considerations.  While  some  may  argue  that 
nuclear weapons are the reason why the world has not 
fought  another  world  war,  my  Government  believes 
that these weapons of mass destruction are unnecessary 
and need to be eliminated. As part of that process, we 
support efforts to strengthen the mechanisms aimed at 
the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. 
in  United  Nations 
10-55128 



As  for  other  countries  of  the  Pacific  region, 
climate  change  is  of  great  concern  to  Papua  New 
Guinea. We need no scientist to tell us of the negative 
impact  of  climate  change.  We  live  it  and  we  suffer 
from it. Many of our islands, such as the Carterets, and 
coastal  habitats  like  my  own  home  area  of  the  Murik 
Lakes  are  being  gradually  submerged  by  rising  sea 
levels. The result is that people living in these areas are 
becoming  environmental  refugees.  Lowland  diseases 
such as malaria are now occurring in the highlands of 
Papua New Guinea. Unusual weather patterns, such as 
increased 
incidences  of  cyclones,  frequent  heavy 
flooding  and  mudslides,  are  causing  havoc  in  our 
economies and exacting untold suffering on our people. 

All these attendant climate change challenges are 
taxing  the  budgetary  resources  of  our  countries  and 
undermining  our development plans. The international 
community has rightly recognized the insidious effects 
of climate change and agreed to take concerted  action 
under  the  ambit  of  the  Kyoto  Protocol,  the  Bali  Road 
Map and the Copenhagen Accord to address the issue. 
Papua New Guinea urges our developed partners 

to 
shoulder  greater 
reducing 
greenhouse gas emissions and for assisting developing 
countries,  particularly  small  island  States,  to  adapt  to 
climate change and its effects. 

and  mitigation 
measures, particularly those committed in Copenhagen, 
must  be  made  more  readily  available  to  developing 
countries.  We  note  the  initiative  announced  by  Japan 
last week during the MDG review and look forward to 
further  details  of  what  it  constitutes.  We  also  applaud 
the  financial  commitments  and  policy  initiatives  that 
China  announced  to  assist  developing  countries  to 
implement the Millennium Development Goals. 

Mr.  Ndong  Mba  (Equatorial  Guinea),  Vice-
President, took the Chair. 

As  for  Papua  New  Guinea,  with  our  colleagues 
from  the  Coalition  for  Rainforest  Nations,  we  have 
committed  ourselves  to  a  programme  of  reducing 
emissions  from  deforestation  and  forest  degradation, 
more  commonly  known  as  REDD-plus. As  this  is  the 
International  Year  of  Biodiversity,  let  me  say  that  the 
REDD-plus  initiative  will  assure  the  protection  of 
important biodiversity. 

In  addition,  at  the  national  level  Papua  New 
Guinea  has  adopted  an  action  plan  for  climate-
compatible  development  and  established  the  Office  of 
responsibility 
adaptation 
Resources 
for 
for 
A/65/PV.20
Climate Change and Development explicitly to oversee 
our  actions  on  climate  change  issues.  As  part  of  our 
strategy  to  reduce  our  carbon  footprint,  we  are  now 
aggressively seeking to develop more hydropower and 
geothermal  sources  for  our  energy  requirements.  We 
have  also  embarked  on  a  major  commercialization 
exercise of our gas reserves to deliver a cleaner energy 
alternative to the world. 

Many  of  us  here  have  recognized  the  need  to 
reform  the  United  Nations  in  order  to  take  account  of 
the changed circumstances under which it operates, as 
well  as  the  new  and  emerging  challenges  that  it  must 
address. We  note  and  commend  the  Secretary-General 
for the ongoing administrative and institutional reforms 
he  is  undertaking  to  improve  the  efficiency  of  the 
United  Nations  in  better  serving  Member  States.  We 
urge  all  stakeholders  in  the  Security  Council  reform 
agenda  to  demonstrate  courage  and  leadership  so  that 
the  composition  and  workings  of  the  Council  can  be 
reformed  in  ways  that  are  equitable  and  reflect  the 
current geopolitical and economic realities. 

Papua  New  Guinea  has  previously  stated  at  this 
Assembly  that  we  believe  that  the  expansion  of  the 
membership of the Security Council is logical to allow 
for 
from  certain  developed  and 
developing countries. In that regard, I wish to reaffirm 
Papua New Guinea’s support for Germany and Japan to 
be  included  as  permanent  members  in  an  expanded 
Security Council. 

Finally,  the  inequities  that  exist  in  the  global 
trading  system  today  are  daunting,  but  they  can  be 
resolved.  With  genuine  partnership,  we  can  and  shall 
overcome them. The world may not be any safer today 
than  it  was  when  the  United  Nations  was  established 
some  65  years  ago,  but  having  been  able  to  avert 
another  world  war 
the 
international  community  has  the  political  will  to 
address  tensions  and  discord  in  a  measured  way.  The 
United Nations and the international legal architecture 
that  it  has  achieved,  developed  and  promoted  have 
played  a  significant 
thus 
underscoring the continuing relevance of this body. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime Minister of Papua New Guinea for the statement 
he has just made. 

Sir  Michael  Somare,  Prime  Minister of  Papua 
New Guinea, was escorted from the rostrum. 
representation 
testimony 
is  ample 
regard, 
role 
that 
in 
that 
10-55128 

3 

A/65/PV.20 



  Address by Mr. Batbold Sukhbaatar, Prime 
Minister of Mongolia  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of Mongolia. 

Mr.  Batbold  Sukhbaatar,  Prime  Minister  of 
Mongolia, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I have 

great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  
Mr.  Batbold  Sukhbaatar,  Prime  Minister  of  Mongolia, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr. Sukhbaatar (Mongolia): This session of the 

General  Assembly  is  taking  place  at  a  time  when 
certain  signs  of  recovery  are  being  observed  in  the 
wake  of  the  global  economic  and  financial  crisis,  and 
come  on  the  heels  of  sharp  spikes  in  food  and  energy 
prices.  Although  the  world  is  still  grappling  with  the 
effects of those multiple and interrelated crises, the call 
of last week’s summit on the Millennium Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  for  intensified  collective  action  gives 
hope for optimism. 
As  the  world  plunged  into  the  worst  economic 

crisis  since  the  Great  Depression,  the  best  minds 
around the globe sought clear answers as to what went 
wrong  and  what  needed  to  be  rectified.  Many  argued 
that the economic theories referred to as neoliberalism 
or  market  fundamentalism,  which  have  prevailed  for 
the  past  quarter  century,  were  flawed.  Their  main 
premise  —  based  on  the  notion,  for  instance,  that 
markets  are  self-correcting  and  that  regulation  is 
accordingly unnecessary — seems to have been proved 
wrong. 
The experience of countries and regions that have 

in  poverty 
achieved  rapid  growth  and  progress 
reduction  has  shown  that  the  State  can  deliberately 
intervene  in  the  economy  and  even  correct  market-
based incentives in such a way as to promote inclusive 
growth  and  sustainable  development.  Hence,  a  new 
concept  of  development  is  emerging  that  envisions  a 
reversal in the thinking on the roles of the State and the 
market. 
As  a  generator  of  the  new  and  innovative  ideas 

and  development  notions  that  have  changed  the  world 
in the past, the United Nations is, in our view, the right 
place 
such 
fundamental concepts, which could have a huge impact 
on  the  development  policies  and  prospects  of  its 
in  nurturing 
to  engage 
intimately 
to 
for 
It 
and 
live 
this  and 
universal, 
legitimate 
Member  States.  That  could  prove  to  be  an  important 
aspect of the deliberations that the President proposed 
as the theme for this debate — “Reaffirming the central 
role of the United Nations in global governance”. 

It has been widely recognized that today’s global 
challenges  require  global  solutions.  The  underlying 
principles  and  characteristics  of  the  United  Nations 
make  it  an  indispensable  part  of  the  evolving  global 
governance system. The United Nations is the world’s 
authoritative 
most 
for  global 
organization  and  a  political  centre 
cooperation. 
represents  a  unique 
forum 
for 
synthesizing  solutions  to  global  problems,  ranging 
from  nuclear  weapons 
to  climate  change,  and 
development  to  human  rights.  It  is  at  the  United 
Nations  that  we  see  world  leaders  commit  themselves 
to  making  the  world  a  safer,  fairer,  more  prosperous 
and  greener  place 
future 
generations. 

Yet, it is a fact that there are challenges that have 
found or are seeking to find solution outside the United 
Nations. A  legitimate  question  would  be:  why?  There 
may be many factors at play and many facets to cover 
in  finding  an  easy  answer  to  that  question.  But  what 
has  emerged  as  obvious  from  our  deliberations  is  the 
fact that, if the United Nations is to reaffirm its central 
role  in  global  governance,  it  will  have  to  be  efficient 
and its reform vigorously pursued. 

The  revitalization  of  the  General Assembly  must 
be  further  pursued  so  that  our  deliberations  and 
decisions have a more practical and meaningful impact 
on the lives of the people in whose name we act here. 
The role of the Economic and Social Council in global 
economic  decision-making  must  be  enhanced.  The 
reform  of  the  Security  Council,  aimed  at  making  it 
more representative of the world’s current reality, will 
certainly  be  a  critical  boost  to  reaffirming  the  central 
role  of  the  United  Nations  in  global  governance. 
Mongolia  stands  for  a  just  and  equitable  enlargement 
of  the  Security  Council  by  increasing  the  number  of 
permanent  and  non-permanent  seats  and  ensuring  the 
fair 
representation  of  developing  and  developed 
countries alike. 

Development,  peace  and  security,  and  human 
rights are the three main pillars of the United Nations. 
Mongolia  welcomes  the  revitalization  of  the  United 
Nations  development  agenda,  as  attested  by  the  High-
level Plenary Meeting of the General Assembly on the 
4 

10-55128 


Millennium  Development  Goals  last  week  and,  most 
importantly,  by  the  vibrant  international  debate  in  the 
lead-up to the summit. As a result, we are clearly in a 
much  better  place  today  as  regards  world  leaders’ 
commitment  to  intensifying  the  efforts  towards  the 
achievement of the MDGs by 2015. 

On  our  part,  my  Government  recommitted  itself, 
at  the  Summit,  to  the  acceleration  of  our  efforts 
towards  poverty 
reduction,  gender  equality  and 
environmental  sustainability,  the  three  MDGs  where 
we  are  lagging  behind.  We  have  committed  ourselves 
to  a  multisectoral,  participatory  and  people-centred 
approach  to  the  implementation  of  the  MDGs,  to 
improved  governance  as  a  foundation  for  successful 
development  outcomes,  and  to  better  monitoring  and 
evaluation of our work as we move forward. 

As  we  intensify  our  poverty  reduction  efforts  at 
home,  we  plan  to  focus  more  on  issues  of  gender 
equality  and  the  empowerment  of  women  as  a  critical 
part  of  success.  My  Government  is  confident  that  the 
newly created UN Women will be an important partner 
in  this  endeavour.  This  year,  Mongolia  presented  its 
national voluntary presentation on gender equality and 
the  empowerment  of  women  to  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  and  will  proceed  to  improve  the 
legislative framework enabling women to realize more 
fully  their  economical  and  political  potential,  have 
better access to health services for themselves and their 
children,  and  participate  more  visibly  in  democratic 
governance. 

Attending  to  the  needs  of  the  most  vulnerable  is 
at the core of the United Nations development agenda. 
As  a  landlocked  developing  country,  Mongolia,  along 
with  other  fellow  Members,  strives  to  advocate  the 
interests  of  that  group  of  countries.  Despite  the 
progress  in  implementing  the  priorities  of  the Almaty 
landlocked  developing 
Programme  of  Action, 
countries 
to 
from 
international  trade.  They  still  experience  higher  costs 
of  moving  goods  across  borders,  which  puts  their 
products at a competitive disadvantage and discourages 
foreign investment. 

With  a  view  to  maximizing  our  coordinated 
efforts for the full and effective implementation of the 
Almaty  Programme  of Action  and  the  MDGs  through 
enhanced  analytical  capability  and  home-grown 
research  on  our  specific  needs,  Mongolia  initiated  the 
establishment  of  the  International  Think  Tank  for  the 
be  marginalized 
continue 
the 
A/65/PV.20
the  Office 
of 
including 
for 
foreign  affairs  of 
the 
stakeholders, 
territory  has  been 
extend  my  Government’s 
to  all 
Landlocked  Developing  Countries.  I  am  delighted  to 
inform  Member  States  today  that  the  multilateral 
agreement  for  that  institution  was  endorsed  by  the 
ministers 
landlocked 
developing  countries  last  week  at  their  ninth  annual 
sincere 
meeting. 
I 
the 
appreciation 
Secretary-General, 
the  High 
Representative  for  the  Least  Developed  Countries, 
Landlocked  Developing  Countries  and  Small  Island 
Developing  States,  and  our  fellow  members  for  their 
unwavering support. 
Climate change is another critical area for global 

governance.  Building  on  progress  achieved 
in 
Copenhagen  in  shaping  a  broad  political  consensus,  it 
is  imperative  now  to  invigorate  global  negotiations 
under  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change in the lead-up to the sixteenth session 
of  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  in  Cancún  later  this 
year. 

The  impact  of  climate  change  on  Mongolia  is 
undeniable.  In  less  than  20  years,  more  than  70  per 
cent  of  our 
affected  by 
desertification.  Hundreds  of  rivers,  springs  and  lakes 
have dried up, causing water shortages and biodiversity 
loss.  Yet,  climate  change  adaptation  and  mitigation 
techniques suitable for scaling up to meet the country’s 
needs  have  yet  to  be  fully  identified  and  introduced. 
The strategies and programmes in place have failed to 
yield the desired results, and the emergence of mining 
as a major industry has only heightened concerns over 
the  environment.  The  sustainable  management  of 
the  country’s 
natural 
ecological  vulnerability  will 
therefore  need  our 
sustained  focus  in  the  years  ahead.  Four  issues  — 
enforcement,  dedication,  financing  and  development 
cooperation — stand out as our priorities in addressing 
these challenges. 

Last  month,  my  Government  held  a  special 
Cabinet  meeting  in  the  sands  of  the  Gobi  Desert. 
Desertification is an issue of vital concern to more than 
1 billion people in over 100 countries. Continued land 
degradation, be it from climate change or unsustainable 
agriculture, is a serious threat to the food security and, 
ultimately,  the  human  security  of  those  affected. 
Through the message sent from Gobi, my Government 
expressed 
to  effectively  address 
desertification  within  the  framework  of  the  United 
resources  and  addressing 
its  firm  resolve 
10-55128 

5 

nuclear 
and 
territory 
disarmament 
its 
A/65/PV.20 

Nations  Decade  for  Deserts  and  the  Fight  Against 
Desertification. 

In  2010,  we  have  seen  renewed  international 
optimism  with  regard  to  the  multilateral  disarmament 
agenda. This shift in climate was reinforced by the new 
START  agreement  and  the  outcome  of  the  Nuclear 
Security Summit, both of which were welcomed by my 
Government  and  reflected  in  the  outcome  of  the 
Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT).  The 
Conference  agreed  on  forward-looking  action  plans 
that impart much-needed momentum to the vision of a 
world  free  of  nuclear  weapons.  Mongolia  welcomes 
this  outcome  and  is  proud  of  the  contribution  it  made 
nuclear  
towards 
non-proliferation  by  declaring 
to  be 
nuclear-weapon-free. This status is fully recognized by 
the  international  community,  as  attested  by  the  final 
document of the NPT Review Conference. 
Mongolia  welcomes  the  increasing  role  of  the 

International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
in 
contributing  to  freedom  from  fear  and  freedom  from 
want.  The  achievement  of  the  MDGs  will  depend  to 
some extent on the contribution of nuclear applications 
in  such  areas  as  nuclear  energy,  health  care,  and  food 
and environmental security. Mongolia is expanding its 
cooperation  with  the  Agency,  especially  in  human 
resource  development  and  nuclear  applications  in 
health  and  agriculture.  Our  2009-2014  country 
programme  framework,  signed  last  year  with  the 
Agency,  added  the  development  of  nuclear  energy 
infrastructure  and  the  country’s  uranium  reserves  as 
priority areas of cooperation. 

This  year,  Mongolia  has  been  designated  one  of 
the  eight  Programme  of  Action  for  Cancer  Therapy 
model  demonstration  site  countries.  This  will  help 
Mongolia  to  most  effectively  address  the  increasing 
cancer epidemic and to share its experience with other 
developing  countries.  I  would  like,  therefore,  to  take 
this opportunity to express my Government’s gratitude 
to  IAEA  and  its  Director  General  for  their  valuable 
support. 

Mongolia  welcomes  the  second  review  of  the 
United  Nations  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy, 
which,  while  emphasizing  national  implementation, 
stressed  the  importance  of  assisting  Member  States  in 
this task. Mongolia takes seriously its responsibility to 
contribute  to  the  global  counter-terrorism  endeavour 
(IAEA) 
in 
the  vital 
importance  of 
and is party to all anti-terrorism instruments. Last May, 
the  United  Nations,  a 
we  hosted, 
together  with 
subregional  workshop  on 
the 
implementation  of 
Security  Council  resolution  1373  (2001).  We  firmly 
believe 
furthering 
development, democracy and respect for human rights 
in  fighting  terrorism  and  in  building  States’  capacities 
to combat it. 

Peacekeeping  is  an  important  tool  for  global 
governance  in  the  hands  of  the  United  Nations.  Since 
its 
inception,  United  Nations  peacekeeping  has 
contributed 
to  preventing  and  managing  violent 
conflicts  and  supporting  nations  in  protecting  and 
building peace in a post-conflict environment. Over the 
past  decade,  it  has  undertaken  important  reforms  to 
make  peacekeeping  stronger,  more  effective  and 
comparatively  cost-efficient.  Mongolia  wishes  to  see 
more  coherent  interaction  between  the  peacekeeping 
and peacebuilding efforts of the United Nations. 

the  past  decade,  Mongolia  has 
taken 
deliberate  steps  to  enhance  its  participation  in  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  missions.  Mongolia  now 
participates 
six  United  Nations-mandated 
peacekeeping  operations  — 
the  most 
challenging  ones  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo, Chad and Darfur — and stands ready to further 
expand its participation. 
In  the  recent  past,  Mongolia  has  been  an  active 

participant 
international  activities  aimed  at 
strengthening  institutions  and  processes  of  democratic 
governance,  protecting  human  rights  and  promoting 
democratic  consolidation.  The  1992  Constitution  of 
Mongolia 
people 
fundamental  freedoms  and  human  rights.  Mongolia  is 
party 
rights 
instruments.  An  independent  National  Human  Rights 
Commission  was  set  up,  and  a  national  human  rights 
action  programme  adopted 
is  being 
implemented.  The  programme 
is  a  main  policy 
document  that  aims  at  improving  the  capacity  and 
accountability  of 
the 
participation  of  civil  society,  mass  media  and  the 
private  sector;  and  encouraging  public  motivation  for 
strengthening human  rights protections and combating 
human  rights  violations. All  in  all,  our  efforts  can  be 
summed  up  by  affirming  that  political  commitment  to 
the  protection  and  promotion  of  human  rights,  along 
with the setting of standards, is in place in Mongolia. 
the  authorities;  enhancing 
international  human 
the  Mongolian 
to  all  major 
guarantees 
in  2003 
Over 
in 
in 
including 
6 

10-55128 
and 
the  national  and 
implementation.  We  have 



However,  as  has  been  rightly  said,  no  human 
rights record is perfect. The implementation of human 
rights commitments in my country is hampered largely 
by two gaps, namely, a knowledge gap and a capacity 
gap.  Furthermore,  emerging  transboundary  threats, 
such  as  the  spread  of  HIV  and  AIDS  and  other 
infectious  diseases,  human  trafficking,  migration  and 
others,  require  an  adequate  collective  response  based 
on  effective  regional  and  international  cooperation. 
Mongolia  looks  forward  to  constructive  engagement 
with  the  Human  Rights  Council  as  it  prepares  to 
consider  our  national  human  rights  report  under  the 
Universal  Periodic  Review  in  early  November  this 
year. 
Direct  civic  engagement  is  essential  to  any  type 

the 
of  governance,  at  both 
international  levels.  My  Government  endeavours  to 
actively engage civil society and communities in policy 
development 
a 
partnership  agreement  with  civil  society  and,  through 
our  open  Government  website,  citizens  relay  their 
views and comments to assist in drafting policy papers 
and laws prior to their consideration by the Cabinet. 

Over  the  past  two  months,  I  have  travelled 
extensively  across  the  country  to  see  first  hand  the 
development challenges being faced in the countryside 
and to hear views at the grass-roots level. This kind of 
direct  interaction  is  essential  to  identifying  people’s 
immediate and long-term needs alike and to reflecting 
their  concerns  in  the  Government’s  activities.  Earlier 
this  year,  through  the  Mongolia  Economic  Forum,  we 
also  had  an  extensive  discussion  on  economic  and 
development  issues  with  businesses,  civil  society  and 
media to set our priorities for the years ahead. 
The President returned to the Chair. 


To have people employed, educated and healthy — 
in  other  words,  human  development  —  is  at  the  heart 
of  the  policies  and  activities  of  my  Government. 
Towards this end, my Government is pursuing policies 
to  accelerate  inclusive  economic  growth  through  wide-
scale industrialization and by undertaking mega-projects 
in  mining  and  infrastructure  development.  National 
wealth will be distributed to each and every citizen of 
Mongolia 
through  a  newly  established  human 
development fund in the form of regular allowances, as 
well  as  through  health  care,  education  and  housing 
benefits. 
A/65/PV.20
I 
reiterate  Mongolia’s 

Mongolia has the honour and privilege to assume 
the  chairmanship  of  the  Community  of  Democracies 
next  year,  and  looks  forward  to  a  strong  collaboration 
with fellow members and other global stakeholders. In 
conclusion,  may 
strong 
commitment to and support for the United Nations — a 
strong,  inclusive  and  open  United  Nations  as  the 
guarantor of global governance. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Mongolia for the statement 
he has just made. 

Mr.  Batbold  Sukhbaatar,  Prime  Minister  of 
Mongolia, was escorted from the rostrum. 



  Address by Mr. Winston Baldwin Spencer, 
Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of Antigua and Barbuda 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Antigua and Barbuda. 

Mr. Winston Baldwin Spencer, Prime Minister and 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  great 

pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Winston 
Baldwin  Spencer,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs  of Antigua  and  Barbuda,  and  inviting 
him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Spencer  (Antigua  and  Barbuda):  Let  me  at 

the  outset  commend  you,  Sir,  on  your  unanimous 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fifth session. I pledge my delegation’s support for 
your  efforts  to  successfully  move  forward  the  agenda 
of 
to  commend  your 
predecessor,  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki,  President  of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session, for his 
stewardship,  and  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for 
his leadership of the Secretariat. 

Your  choice  of  theme  for  our  general  debate  —
”Reaffirming the central  role of the United Nations in 
global  governance”  —  is  both  appropriate  and  timely. 
After 65 years of operations, there is sufficient history 
to  provide  material  for  objective  review  and  enough 
future to justify such a rigorous assessment. 
this  session.  I  also  wish 
10-55128 

7 

the 
long  eluded 
A/65/PV.20 


In my own view, arising from the many successes 
of the United Nations in a wide range of areas, one of 
the most enduring lessons the past 65 years have taught 
us as a global community is the wisdom and supremacy 
of  multilateralism.  Even  where  multilateralism  has 
failed to secure lasting solutions to some of the world’s 
problems, it has laid unshakable foundations on which 
bilateral understanding can be built. 
The resolution of the conflict in the Middle East, 

for  example,  has 
international 
community. This is why we are hopeful with regard to 
the  latest  efforts  at  peaceful  negotiations  between 
Israel  and  Palestine  being  brokered  by  the  current 
United  States Administration.  If  there  is  to  be  lasting 
peace  in  the  Middle  East,  there  must  be  two  States, 
Israel  and  Palestine,  living  side  by  side  in  peace  and 
security.  There  must  be  direct  negotiations  with  both 
parties,  Israel  and  Palestine,  at  the  same  table.  Israel 
must  heed  the  international  community’s  unanimous 
call to extend the moratorium on disputed settlements, 
which  would  contribute  positively  to  the  negotiations. 
And all the countries of that region must commit to and 
work towards a lasting and durable Middle East peace. 

Today,  global  governance  relates  not  only  to 
concerns  about  peace,  security  and  political  self-
determination. 
governance 
embraces  such  imperatives  as  the  elimination  of 
hunger,  disease  and  ignorance;  administering  a  stable 
and robust international financial system; and ensuring 
fair trade, adequate shelter and the preservation of our 
very delicate environment. 

Never  in  the  history  of  human  existence  has  our 
planet been faced with a greater urgency to meet these 
objectives.  The  scale  of  poverty,  conflicts,  global 
warming, the economic and financial crisis, migration, 
pandemics,  terrorism  and  international  crime  demands 
a  collective  global  effort  employing  common  and 
coordinated  strategies.  The  extent  of  these  problems 
and  the  enormity  of  their  consequences  are  clearly 
beyond  the  resource  and  management  capabilities  of 
any one nation. 

I  believe  that  our  United  Nations,  with  its  near 
universal membership, is the only global body that has 
the  legitimacy  and  operational  structures  to  undertake 
the  necessary  political  and 
the 
task  of  forging 
economic  consensus 
to  effectively 
these 
problems. 
tackle 
Importantly, 
global 

A mere three years ago, we heads of Government 
described  climate  change  as  the  defining  challenge  of 
our  era.  Three  years  on  it  remains  so,  especially  for 
those countries that are particularly vulnerable. And yet 
we  hear  from  some  who  have  a  responsibility  to  act 
that  they  will  only  do  so  when  others  have  taken 
action.  While  everybody  waits  for  somebody  else  to 
act, the peoples of the world are made to suffer. 

If  ever  a  challenge  requires  an  urgent  global 
solution, this one does. Small island developing States 
such  as  Antigua  and  Barbuda  face  a  unique  set  of 
vulnerabilities  related 
to  our  small  size:  relative 
isolation,  narrow  resource  base  and  high  exposure  to 
global  environmental  threats.  To  compound  this,  over 
the last five years we have suffered disproportionately 
from  the  financial,  food  and  energy  crises.  Our 
economies  have  been  battered  and  many  of  our 
productive sectors wiped out. 

But  the  hardship  that  has  ensued  for  our  people 
from  all  this,  will  pale  into  insignificance,  if  the 
international  community  does  not  quickly  address  the 
looming  threat  of  climate  change,  which  is  already 
having  a  devastating  impact  all  over  the  world. We,  the 
small island developing States, have already experienced 
loss of agricultural land and infrastructure — so too have 
many countries in Africa. 

Our  fishing  and  tourism  industries  are  being 
impacted  negatively. There  has  been  considerable  loss 
of our biodiversity, saltwater intrusion and devastation 
of  terrestrial  and  wetland  habitats  and  the  destruction 
of  human  settlements.  Even  the  once-distant  threat  of 
rising  sea-level  is  now  a  reality,  forcing  some  of  our 
people to emigrate and rebuild their lives elsewhere. 

The most notable action, so far, has been repeated 
promises  of  abundant  financing  to  address  the  most 
urgent problems. Sadly, most of these remain just that: 
promises.  There  are 
to 
undertake 
aggressive  greenhouse  gas  emissions 
reductions  with  the  caveat  of  “only  if  others  do  so  as 
well”. This approach has created a dangerous stalemate 
that can only be to the further detriment of small island 
developing States, such as my own. 
Not  willing  to  allow  this  dangerous  situation  to 

continue  forever,  my  own  country  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda  has  pledged  to  reduce  its  already  miniscule 
greenhouse  gas  emissions  by  25  per  cent  below  1990 
levels by 2020. 
too  many  commitments 
8 

10-55128 
in 
This 
is  within 
the  range  specified  by 



the 
Intergovernmental  Panel  on  Climate  Change,  which 
has  recommended  that  overall  reductions  should  be 
within  the  range  of  25  per  cent  to  40  per  cent  below 
1990  levels  by  2020.  We  have  also  declared  that  we 
will  work  towards  making  Antigua  and  Barbuda  a 
green economy by 2020. 

However,  much  remains  to  be  done,  and  we  are 
painfully aware that we cannot do it alone. I therefore 
call on all countries, both developed and developing, to 
join  us 
this  endeavour  by  announcing  real, 
meaningful emission reductions targets, so that we can 
move this seemingly endless debate forward and reach 
a  comprehensive,  binding  agreement  in  the  very  near 
future. 

The  year  2010  has  not  been  without  its  share  of 
catastrophes.  The  year  began  with  a  devastating 
earthquake  in  Haiti  —  one  of  the  worst  disasters  in 
history.  The  death  toll  has  been  put  at  some  220,000 
out of a population of around 9 million. The earthquake 
has been estimated to cost $8 to $14 billion, according 
to the Inter-American Development Bank. Against this 
backdrop,  many  countries  pledged  assistance  —  up  to 
$1.5  billion.  Sadly,  only  10  per  cent  of  the  amount 
pledged  has  been  received  by  Haiti.  In  the  midst  of 
these unfulfilled commitments, the humanitarian needs 
of our sister island remain dire. 

Since  charity  begins  at  home,  we,  the  member 
States  of  the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM),  of 
which Haiti is a member, have been contributing within 
our very limited capacity our fair share of assistance to 
Haiti,  including  direct  budgetary  support.  I  call  on 
those  nations  that  pledged  assistance  to  Haiti,  to 
honour  their  commitments.  Those  pledges  are  needed 
urgently, now that the rebuilding phase is getting under 
way in that devastated country. 

In  Chile,  a  huge  earthquake  moved  the  city  of 
Concepción  at  least  10  feet,  or  3  metres,  to  the  west. 
Between  500  and  700  persons  were  killed.  Total 
recovery  costs  could  exceed  $15  billion.  In  the 
People’s Republic of China, a series of snowstorms and 
freezing  weather  have  affected  the  western  region  of 
the  country  since  December  2009.  The  storms  have 
affected  millions  and  resulted  in  30  deaths.  This  year 
alone,  severe  flooding  and  a  major  earthquake  killed 
hundreds  of  people  and  rendered  thousands  more 
homeless. 
A/65/PV.20
inherent 
economic 

In  Pakistan,  devastating  floods  have  resulted  in 
over 1,600 deaths and more than 6 million people have 
been  affected.  That  country  has  sought  international 
assistance  to  cope  with  the  catastrophe.  Despite  mass 
evacuations, there are fears that the death toll will rise 
as  flooding  reaches  the  southern  parts  of  the  country 
and  the  risk  of  an  outbreak  of  waterborne  diseases 
increases  in  many  areas.  These  disasters  and  their 
aftermaths  serve  to  reaffirm  the  need  to  ensure  that 
addressing  the  humanitarian  consequences  of  today’s 
disasters  and  emergencies  remains  a  United  Nations 
priority.  And  those  countries  in  a  position  to  do  so 
should  pledge  their  support  to  assist  Pakistan  and  to 
honour their pledges. 

Antigua  and  Barbuda  continues  to  commiserate 
with  the  Governments  and  people  of  these  and  other 
nations,  who  have  been  affected  by  natural  and  other 
disasters. 

In my region of Latin America and the Caribbean, 
our  Governments  are  taking  bold  steps  to  overcome 
some  of  our 
social 
vulnerabilities  by 
forging  economic  partnerships 
designed  to  help  lift  our  people  out  of  poverty.  The 
Single  Market  and  Economy  being  developed  at  the 
level  of  the  15-member  Caribbean  Community  is  one 
such valiant initiative. 

At  the  subregional  level  of  the  Organization  of 
Eastern  Caribbean 
economic 
integration  is  proceeding  at  an  even  more  rapid  pace 
with our commitment to creating an economic union by 
next year. 

and 
Both 
Economy,  as  well  as  the  OECS  Economic  Union,  are 
enormous  undertakings  by  small  island  nations  with 
very limited resources. We therefore invite the support 
of  our  development  partners  to  assist  us  with  the 
technical  and  financial  resources  necessary  to  move 
these economic initiatives forward. The leaders of our 
region see the building of strong economic alliances as 
being vital to the creation of wealth and prosperity for 
our people. 

We  are  convinced  that  the  capacity  of  our 
national Governments to deliver critical social services 
for  our  populations  can  be  improved  through  greater 
economic  and  technical  cooperation  at  the  regional 
level. It is for that reason, and with the interest of our 
people in mind, that the countries of Latin America and 
the Caribbean agreed at our meeting in Mexico earlier 
the  CARICOM  Single  Market 
(OECS), 
and 
States 
10-55128 

9 

survival,  economic  development  and 
A/65/PV.20 

this  year  to  create  the  Community  of  Latin American 
and Caribbean States, which will unite members of the 
the  Caribbean  Community.  This 
Rio  Group  and 
Community  of  nations  will  coexist  with 
the 
Organization  of  American  States, 
in  which  we 
participate along with our North American partners. 

The economic challenges facing all the people of 
our hemisphere are too many and their implications too 
great  for  us  to  contemplate  the  creation  of  any 
economic  community  of  Latin  America  and 
the 
Caribbean that excludes any one country of our region. 
It  is  in  that  spirit  that  Cuba  remains,  and  will  always 
remain,  a  vibrant  participant  in  any  broad  economic 
arrangement for Latin America and the Caribbean. 

We may not all share similar political views and 
political  systems.  However,  the  right  of  all  the  people 
of Latin America and the Caribbean to an equal chance 
at 
social 
advancement  is  absolute  and  non-negotiable.  For  that 
reason,  the  Governments  and  the  people  of  Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean  continue  to  regard  as 
unjust,  counterproductive  and 
the 
maintenance of the ongoing economic embargo against 
Cuba. As  a  political  strategy  or  economic  manoeuvre, 
that act of economic strangulation is unjustifiable. We 
condemn  the  embargo  in  the  strongest  possible  terms, 
as  its  continued  enforcement  by  the  United  States 
severely  hampers  the  development  of  Cuba  and  its 
people. 

Antigua  and  Barbuda  therefore  reiterates  its  call 
for the United States to immediately end its economic 
embargo against the Cuban people. 

More  than  20  years  after  the  fall  of  the  Berlin 
Wall, democracy has emerged as the preferred form of 
government  all  over  the  world. And  people  everywhere 
have strongly opposed attempts to seize Governments — 
any Government — through undemocratic means. Such 
attempts,  whenever  and  wherever  they  occur,  must  be 
condemned 
terms.  We 
therefore condemn the undemocratic moves such as the 
recent  coup  d’état  in  Honduras  and  call  for  the 
unconditional 
former  President  Zelaya 
without harm to his physical person. That is a sine qua 
non  for  the  full  normalization  of  relations  between 
Honduras and most of the countries of the region. 

As  I  said  in  my  statement  during  the  review  of 
the Millennium Development Goals (see A/65/PV.8), a 
renewed emphasis on trade is a critical pillar on which 
the  strongest  possible 
reprehensible 
return  of 
in 
to 
their 
to  rescue 
developing  countries  are  seeking 
their 
battered economies and lift their people out of poverty. 
In that respect, it is essential that all participants in the 
global  trading  system,  including  our  partners  in  the 
developed  countries,  adhere 
international 
obligations. If that is not done, the people of our small 
developing  countries,  despite  the  encouragement  of 
their  leaders,  will  have  no  faith  in  the  international 
system.  They  will  have  no  reason  to  believe  that  the 
multilateral system is just and that it works for them in 
the  same  way  it  does  for  large,  powerful,  developed 
nations. 

The non-resolution of the ongoing gaming matter 
within  the  World  Trade  Organization  (WTO),  despite 
repeated  rulings  in  favour  of Antigua  and  Barbuda  by 
the  Dispute  Settlement  Body  of  WTO,  is  a  case  in 
point.  Let  us  not  forget  that,  like  the  United  Nations, 
WTO  and  other  bodies  such  as  the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions  are  essential  elements  of  the  multilateral 
system and vital pillars of the accepted architecture of 
global governance. In the spirit of preserving that vital 
architecture  of  global  governance,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda  reiterates  its  call  for  our  friend  and  partner, 
the  United  States,  to  work  with  us  to  quickly  resolve 
the situation and reach a settlement that is fair and just 
to both parties. 

Trade is a critical engine of economic growth. If 
for  no  other  reason  but  that,  we  must  complete  the 
Doha  Round  of  trade  negotiations  so  as  to  ensure  a 
balanced outcome. Now more than ever, after some 10 
years  in  the  making,  Doha  must  lead  to  economic 
expansion,  development  in  the  poorest  countries,  and 
an end to distorting subsidies and protectionist barriers. 

A  number  of  the  countries  classified  as  middle- 
and upper-middle-income countries are in dire need of 
substantial  amounts  of  debt  relief  in  order  to  create 
fiscal  space  for  spending 
their 
development. Many of those countries now have debt-
servicing  obligations  that  are  comparable  in  size  to 
their  gross  national  product  or,  in  some  cases,  dwarf 
the  value  of  their  total  output.  For  them  —  my  own 
country included — the need for urgent debt relief is a 
top priority. 

For many of those countries the debt distress has 
been  caused  by global  crises not of their making. The 
global  financial  and  economic  tsunami,  the  likes  of 
which  has  not  been  seen  since  1929,  has  impacted 
negatively on every sphere of life for about 90 per cent 
targeted 
towards 
10 

10-55128 
the 
larger 
territories  of 
to 
the  situation 


of  humankind.  In  some  instances,  entire  national 
economies  collapsed  and  commercial  and  private 
sectors have been decimated. For some, the downward 
spiral  has  no  end  in  sight.  Many  countries  are 
struggling to maintain a minimal level of normalcy. For 
others,  attempting  to  stave  off  financial  collapse,  the 
social  upheaval  and  chaos  are  unravelling  the  very 
fabric  of  modern  societies  and  jeopardizing  sanity, 
sovereignty, independence, and the dignity and pride of 
their people. 

The  effects of the global financial  and  economic 
crisis  on 
the  Caribbean 
Community  are  evident  in  their  economic,  fiscal  and 
social statistical data. For the smaller territories of the 
Eastern  Caribbean, 
is  even  more 
devastating. Permit me to relate the facts pertaining to 
my own country, Antigua and Barbuda. 

In  addition  to  the  direct  and  indirect  impact  that 
the  global  economic  contagion  has  had  on  our 
economy, we have had to endure the collapse of two of 
the  leading  insurance  companies,  which  not  only  held 
normal  policies  but  also  annuities  and  life  savings  for 
individuals,  as  well  as  large  cash  investments  for 
national  statutory  corporations  totalling  approximately 
$150  million.  At  the  same  time,  the  leading  private-
sector  employer  and  second  largest  employer  in  the 
nation after the Government has collapsed. 

All  that  was  added  to  a  financial  sector  that  has 
been  suffering  from  a  sustained  campaign  by  the 
and 
Organization 
Development 
in 
taxation,  an  area  into  which  we  had  diversified  our 
economy,  which  was  previously  dependent  almost 
entirely  on  tourism.  That  action  by  OECD  resulted  in 
the loss of hundreds of the most lucrative jobs and an 
estimated loss of hundreds of millions in direct revenue 
to our economy. 

We  note  the  recent  removal  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda  from  the  so-called  Grey  List.  Our  current 
listing  among  the  countries  that  have  substantially 
implemented  internationally  agreed  taxation  standards 
is  a  belated  recognition  of  the  steps  taken  by  the 
current  Government  of  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  over 
several  years,  to  be  in  full  compliance  with  all 
international standards in this respect. 

In  the  light  of  those  realities  of  substantial 
revenue  decline  and  severe  economic  dislocation, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda  recently  engaged  the  Paris  Club 
for  Economic  Cooperation 
(OECD) 
reduce  competition 
10-55128 

A/65/PV.20
from  our  development  partners. 
in  discussions  on  our  country’s  $133  million 
outstanding  debt  to  that  group  of  creditors.  Our 
engagement  with  the  Paris  Club  was  assisted  by  a 
stand-by  arrangement  previously  approved  by  the 
International  Monetary  Fund  (IMF).  We  have  reached 
an  agreement  by  which  some  90  per  cent  of  that  debt 
will  be  restructured.  Our  next  step  will  be  to  enter 
bilateral  negotiations  with  Paris  Club  member 
creditors. 

With  the  economic  challenges  I  have  outlined, 
our  efforts  to  meet  human  development  needs  are 
severely  strained  and  challenged  in  unprecedented 
ways.  That  makes  our  attainment  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals, 
though  possible,  extremely 
difficult  without  a  more  realistic  and  flexible  direct 
commitment 
I 
therefore call on the Group of Seven, the Group of 20, 
IMF  and  the  World  Bank,  in  their  bilateral  and 
multilateral  commitments  to  the  Caribbean,  to  give  a 
more  compassionate  and  favourable  response  to  the 
New  Arrangement  to  Borrow,  with  specific  focus  on 
the  Group  of  20  agreement  of  2  April  2010.  That 
agreement was to triple the fund’s lending capacity to 
$750  billion.  This  approach  has  already  been  taken 
with  some  other  regions  and  nations.  The  institutions 
are  being  called  on,  too,  to  accord  to  our  region 
consideration of broader and more comprehensive debt 
cancellation  to  spur  economic  revival  and,  in  some 
cases, survival. 

The  General  Assembly  meets  once  again  as  the 
chief  deliberative,  policymaking  and  representative 
organ  of  the  United  Nations.  We  meet  in  this  unique 
forum,  which  bestows  equality  on  each  of  its  192 
Members, in order to engage in multilateral discussions 
to advance the interests of all peoples of the world. But 
reaffirming  the  central  role  of  the  United  Nations  in 
global  governance  cannot  be  done  without  due  regard 
to the myriad challenges facing all its Members. 

For us to achieve that reaffirmation — which most, 
if  not  all,  of  us  believe  is  a  very  notable  objective  —  I 
believe  we  must  act  now.  I  therefore  call  on  the 
Assembly to develop at this session the modalities that 
will  enable  our  nations  to  be  able  to  resolve  conflicts 
and  promote  peace  and  stability,  foster  a  more 
prosperous  world 
through  balanced  growth  and 
prosperity among developed and developing countries, 
encourage  all  Member  States  to  pursue  a  cleaner, 
greener,  more  sustainable  world  for  our  children,  and 
create a safer world, free of nuclear weapons. 
11 

A/65/PV.20 


The  65-year  history  of  this  noble  institution 
establishes beyond a doubt that we can. And the future 
of  our  generation  and  generations  of  our  peoples  to 
come  behoves  us  to  embark  on  that  mission  with 
urgency and immediacy. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the  General  Assembly,  I  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Antigua  and  Barbuda  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

Mr. Winston  Baldwin  Spencer,  Prime  Minister  of 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 



  Address by His Excellency Mr. Jaume 
Bartumeu Cassany, Head of Government  
of the Principality of Andorra 

The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Head  of  Government 
of the Principality of Andorra. 

Mr. 
Jaume  Bartumeu  Cassany,  Head  of 
Government  of  the  Principality  of  Andorra,  was 
escorted to the rostrum. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  great 

pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jaume 
Bartumeu  Cassany,  Head  of  Government  of 
the 
Principality of Andorra, and inviting him to address the 
General Assembly. 
Mr.  Bartumeu  Cassany  (Andorra)  (spoke  in 

Catalan;  Spanish  and  French  texts  provided  by  the 
delegation):  It  is  certainly  a  great  opportunity  for  the 
Principality of Andorra and the Government I represent 
to  address  the  Assembly.  The  United  Nations  is  the 
forum  that,  true  to  its  origins,  today  represents  the 
greatest source of hope for many people, countries and 
Governments. 

In Andorra,  we  are  aware  of  what  being  a  small 
Member country of the United Nations involves — that 
is, a determination to engage in cooperation, hard work 
and  honest  efforts.  The  world  is  the  sum  of  our 
possibilities  and  our  efforts,  and  of  the  aspirations  of 
each of us. 

The  world  in  the  twenty-first  century  is  neither 
better nor worse; it has the same defects, contrasts and 
virtues as in earlier centuries, but the rules of play are 
more  dynamic.  Thanks  to  new  technology  and  social 
networks,  citizens  now  have  greater  weight  than  in 
12 

earlier  times  in  alerting  and  motivating  the  political 
and  economic  leaders  and  seeing  that  they  remain 
active. 

Despite  all  that,  today  we  live  in  a  world  of 
patent  contrasts,  where  hunger  continues  to  be  one  of 
our worst evils. More than a billion people suffer from 
malnutrition  and  poverty.  The  consequences  of  the 
food,  environmental  and  economic  crises  have 
compounded  the  situation  of  the  most  vulnerable 
populations. 
During  the  World  Summit  on  Food  Security  in 

Rome last November, we decided to adopt measures to 
halve  by  2015  the  number  of  people  suffering  from 
malnutrition and hunger, combining all possible efforts 
to  achieve  the  first  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  In  the  Group  of  20  (G20)  meeting  in  Toronto, 
the  Secretary-General  defended  the  position  of  the 
most  vulnerable  populations  and  asked  the  20  leading 
world  Powers  to  develop  new  policies  for  combating 
poverty. 

The struggle to combat climate change, however, 
is still unresolved. The natural disasters that the people 
of Haiti and Pakistan have had to deal with show how 
devastating the effects of climate change can be. It is a 
phenomenon  that  jeopardizes  the  poorest  populations, 
affects  access  to  water,  compounds  malnutrition  and 
leads to violence. The economic impact on developing 
States is terrible. 

While  the  threats  are  real,  the  solutions  are  real 
too. The possibility of dealing with them exists. During 
the  Copenhagen  Conference,  the  States  parties  to  the 
Climate  Change  Convention  initiated  negotiations  for 
an  agreement.  We  hope  that  at  the  Conference  on 
Climate Change to be held in Cancún in December, an 
effective  and  scientifically  ambitious  text  will  be 
adopted that will make it possible to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions. 

in  activities  aimed  at 
Andorra 
combating climate change, particularly water treatment 
and  reduction  of  substances  that  deplete  the  ozone 
layer.  In  the  next  few  months  our  Government  also 
plans  to  approve  ratification  of  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change. 

It is clear is that the current crisis is forcing us to 
rethink the structures of the global financial system to 
make  it  more  equitable,  more  ethical  and  at  the  same 
time more sound, in order to ensure that world leaders’ 
is  engaging 
10-55128 
the 
and 
cooperation 
international 
financial  activities  and  of 


aspirations can — little by little, but more each time — 
converge  and  agree  on  what  the  most  vulnerable 
peoples, countries and democracies truly need. 

Andorra  has  succeeded  in  moving  off  the  Grey 
List of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and 
Development  (OECD),  thanks  to  the  signing,  between 
September  2009  and  February  2010,  of  17  bilateral 
agreements  on  the  exchange  of  tax  information.  Our 
firm  commitment  to  the  recommendations  of  OECD 
and  the  international  community  as  a  whole,  as 
expressed at the G20 meetings, has laid the foundations 
for  our  business  structure  and  boosted  confidence  in 
Andorra’s financial sector. 
We  wish  to  move  forward  on  the  road  to 

transparency 
in 
combating  tax  fraud.  We  therefore  believe  that  a 
permanent  European  mechanism  for  financial  stability 
should be established, as well as very strict regulation 
of the products known as derivatives. It would also be 
desirable  to  create  a  European  agency  to  rate  the 
solvency  of 
its 
administrations. 
We  also  wish  to  continue  to  work,  from  a 

perspective  of  respect,  in  an  Organization  such  as  the 
United  Nations,  reformed  and  consolidated,  able  to 
help  the  international  community  to  move  forward  at 
this  stage  of  its  history,  avoiding  any  exacerbation  of 
the inequalities that fuel violence and hatred. 

We  therefore  need  to  promote  an  international 
definition  of  minimum  social  guarantees  for  all 
mankind.  Andorra  firmly  believes  that  the  United 
Nations  can  ensure  the  necessary  equilibrium,  respect 
for all States — regardless of their economic, political 
or  military  power  —  and 
the  application  of 
international  law.  The  United  Nations  Charter  urges 
Member States to apply tolerance and to combine their 
efforts to maintain international peace  and security  — 
in short, to ensure that the aspirations and needs of all 
coincide. 

In the last 65 years, the United Nations has taken 
many  actions  to  promote  disarmament,  development 
and  the  rule  of  law  and  democratic  practices,  and  it 
continues  to  do  so.  The  Organization  and  its  Member 
States  have  been  supported  by  non-governmental 
organizations  and  grass-roots  movements,  which  have 
worked  to  ensure  that  the  tragic  experiences  of  the 
twentieth century are not repeated. 
and 
any 
To  mark 
the 
the  prohibition  of 
twentieth  anniversary  of 

One of the features of my country is that we have 
no army. For more than 700 years Andorra has lived in 
peace,  without  a  single  armed  conflict.  Today, 
determined  to  show  our  international  commitment  to 
disarmament,  Andorra  intends  very  soon  to  ratify  the 
Convention on Cluster Munitions. 

Let  us  remember  that  the  founding  principles  of 
our  Organization  are  equality,  the  defence  of  human 
rights 
form  of 
discrimination. 
The Human Rights Council is the principal forum 

for  the  discussion  of  the  defence  of  human  rights. 
Thanks  to  the  Universal  Periodic  Review,  all  Member 
States  are  subject  to  a  unique  exercise  in  dialogue, 
which  encourages  us  to  respect  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms.  This  process  is  proving  to  be 
effective, but there are still a number of challenges to 
overcome.  Andorra  will  undergo  this  review  for  the 
first time in the coming month of November. 

the 
Convention on the Rights of the Child, Andorran civil 
society  and, 
the  Andorra  National 
Committee  for  UNICEF  have  carried  out  many 
activities  jointly  with  Andorran  institutions  to  raise 
awareness  of  that  text  and  educate  the  population  on 
the importance of defending the rights of the child. 
Combating violence against women is one of the 

priorities  of  the  Government  that  I  represent.  On  
14  April  this  year,  we  created  the  Secretariat  for 
Equality 
the  objective  of 
coordinating  the  range  of  actions  aimed  at  promoting 
the  status  of  women  and  establishing  new  policies  in 
the  area  of  gender.  This  year,  we  are  celebrating  the 
fifteenth anniversary of the adoption of the Declaration 
and  Platform  for  Action  at  the  Fourth  Conference  on 
Women, held in Beijing. 

the 
Commission  on  the  Status  of  Women,  we  recognized 
that women have an essential role to play in promoting 
broad  and  sustainable  socio-economic  development. 
Progress  has  been  made  on  improving  the  status  of 
women,  but,  unfortunately,  it  is  not  enough.  We  must 
continue  promoting  the  rights  of  women  and  fighting 
domestic violence. 

According  to  a  report  by  the  United  Nations 
Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  (UNODC),  the  most 
profitable 
is  human 
and  Welfare,  with 
the  March  2010 
illegal  activity 
During 
session  of 
A/65/PV.20
in  particular, 
10-55128 

13 
in  Europe 

A/65/PV.20 

trafficking.  Eighty-four  per  cent  of  the  victims  of 
human trafficking in Europe have been enslaved for the 
purposes of sexual exploitation. It is important to focus 
on  that  issue  from  the  perspective  of  protecting 
victims,  which  will  certainly  be  integrated  into  the 
development  of  the  United  Nations  Plan  of Action  to 
Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons,  adopted  on  30  July 
2010 (resolution 64/293). 

Over the  coming months, Andorra will ratify the 
Council  of  Europe  Convention  on  Action  against 
Trafficking  in  Human  Beings,  which  is  a  compelling 
demonstration of our State’s international commitment 
to  this  fight  and  of  our  will  to  support  international 
instruments  aimed  at  protecting  human  rights  and 
preserving  the  fundamental  values  of  our  democratic 
societies. 

The  Government  that  I  represent  commends  the 
recent  decision  by  the  United  Nations  to  create  the 
United  Nations  Entity  for  Gender  Equality  and  the 
Empowerment  of  Women  (UN Women).  I  wish  this 
new body the greatest success; it can count on the full 
support of my country, and we will work in solidarity 
with Michelle Bachelet. 

At  present,  we  are  all  experiencing  a  profound 
global  economic  crisis,  which  threatens  the  European 
model of society. This crisis is also cultural and affects 
values such as solidarity. 
As we celebrate 2010 as the International Year for 

the  Rapprochement  of  Cultures,  we  have 
the 
opportunity  to  remember  the  relevance  of  cultural 
diversity.  Learning about others, tolerance and respect 
for human rights and human dignity are the ingredients 
needed to build a harmonious and peaceful society. 

Perhaps  as  a  result  of  the  small  size  of Andorra, 
or  of  its  geographical  surroundings  —  abrupt  and 
extremely  beautiful  —  in  the  Pyrenees,  we  have  been 
able to develop natural and strong human relationships, 
through  which  our  attachment,  commitment  or 
disagreement  with  all  people  is  shown  sincerely, 
without  filters  and  without  doublespeak.  Therefore, 
when large-scale natural disasters, humanitarian crises 
or  international  emergencies  occur, Andorra  responds, 
and  it  does  so  sincerely,  with  voluntary  contributions 
commensurate with international norms and additional 
contributions when called for by the situation. Andorra, 
in  accordance  with  its  national  budget,  is  always 
present  and  always  does  its  part.  Based  on  this 
international 
solidarity,  we  support  and  promote 
development  cooperation,  and  our  country  has  a 
number of non-governmental organizations that devote 
vigorous efforts to working in this area. 

The  challenges  we  are  forced 
to  face  are 
numerous. We  have  the  good  fortune  of  being  able  to 
work together in order to overcome them. It is indeed a 
great responsibility, but it is also a great opportunity. It 
is  an  opportunity  to  come  up  with  solutions  that  meet 
the needs of those worst off. 

In conclusion, I should like to wish you, Sir, the 
best  of  luck  and  the  greatest  of  success  over  the 
coming year. I am convinced that you will make great 
progress 
the 
individual  and 
collective impact of our Organization. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Head  of 
Government  of  the  Principality  of  Andorra  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr. 
Jaume  Bartumeu  Cassany,  Head  of 
Government  of  the  Principality  of  Andorra,  was 
escorted from the rostrum. 
improving 
towards 



  Address by Mr. Edward Natapei, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Vanuatu 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will now hear an address by the Prime Minister of the 
Republic of Vanuatu. 

Mr.  Edward  Natapei,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Vanuatu, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  great 

pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Edward 
Natapei,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Vanuatu, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Natapei  (Vanuatu):  Vanuatu  is  very  pleased 

that we are meeting under your presidency, Sir, and, on 
behalf  of  my  Government  and  of  the  Pacific  Islands 
Forum, I extend my warm congratulations to you, and 
we  wish  to  assure  you  of  our  full  confidence  and 
cooperation. 

I should also like to take a moment to pay tribute 
to  your  predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ali 
Abdussalam  Treki,  for  his  exceptional  service  and 
leadership  during 
the 
General  Assembly  and  for 
the  considerable  and 
important achievements of that session. 
the  sixty-fourth  session  of 
14 

10-55128 
the  Secretary-General 


In the same spirit, I take this opportunity also to 

commend 
for  his  vision, 
leadership  and  tireless  efforts  in  working  towards 
achievements in the common interest of all humanity. 

Many innocent lives continue to be wasted, with 
good  people  killed  or  wounded  and  multitudes 
displaced  by  heinous  acts  designed  to  undermine  and 
destabilize  the  collective  efforts  of  the  international 
community  to  achieve  peace  and  security  for  our 
societies.  These  many  unprecedented  events  continue 
to test the very foundation of our Organization. 

As we prepare to enter the second decade of this 
twenty-first century, it is vital now more than ever that 
our membership affirms its confidence and faith in the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is 
important  that  we  continue  to  assert  our  support  for 
fundamental human rights and the peaceful coexistence 
of our nations. The range and urgency of the challenges 
that  now  confront  the  international  community  in  our 
globalized  and  interdependent  world  demand,  at  the 
very least, our steadfast support for and commitment to 
peace  and  security  for  our  communities  and  peoples, 
and for future generations. 

If  we  are  to  effectively  guarantee  human  rights 
and  achieve  peace  and  security  and  social  and 
economic  justice  for  all,  we  need  to  be  united  in  this 
endeavour,  and  our  cooperation  and  multilateral  joint 
efforts  need 
to  be  durable  and  effective.  My 
Government and people of Vanuatu are steadfast in our 
belief that the United Nations remains uniquely suited 
to  the  pursuit  and  coordination  of  global  initiatives  to 
attain these objectives. 

Vanuatu  hosted  the  forty-first  annual  Pacific 
Islands Forum in our capital, Port Vila, last month. As 
current  Chair,  I  wish  to  inform  the Assembly  that  the 
Pacific  Islands  leaders  again  noted  that  transnational 
crime  remains  a 
to  national  and  regional 
stability,  in  particular  the  proliferation  of  small  arms 
and  light  weapons  and  illicit  drugs.  Consequently,  the 
Pacific Islands Forum has strengthened cooperation in 
counter-terrorism  measures  and  emphasized  national 
efforts  and 
in  combating 
transnational  organized  crime  and  in  strengthening 
border  control  capacities.  The  Pacific  Islands  Forum 
remains  committed  to  collective  arrangements  and 
mechanisms to assist regional Governments recovering 
from  national  conflicts  and  crises.  The  value  of  those 
efforts is evident in the positive results of the Regional 
regional  cooperation 
threat 
A/65/PV.20
Assistance  Mission  to  the  Solomon  Islands,  created 
under  the  Biketawa  Declaration  with  the  assistance  of 
contributing  member  States,  which  would  not  have 
been  successful  without  the  strong  leadership  and 
commitment of the Solomon Islands Government. 
While  many  of  our  member  countries  have  not 

ratified 
the  United  Nations  Convention  against 
Corruption  (UNCAC),  Forum  leaders  recognize  the 
important  role that the Convention offers in providing 
an internationally agreed framework for effective anti-
corruption activities around the world. I am pleased to 
say  that  our  regional  organizations  are  working  with 
the  various  United  Nations  agencies  to  advance  work 
to promote the Convention. 

While  known  as  a  region  characterized  by 
oceanic  isolation,  smallness  and  general  vulnerability, 
the Pacific region is one of only a few in the world to 
have  experienced  nuclear  weapons  testing.  Therefore, 
advancing  the  cause  of  nuclear  non-proliferation  and 
the  South  Pacific  Nuclear  Free  Zone  Treaty  —  also 
known  as  the  Treaty  of  Rarotonga  —  remains  critical 
and relevant to our signatory member States. The South 
Pacific Nuclear Free Zone Treaty reflects our region’s 
deep  commitment  not  only  to  international  peace  and 
security  but  also  to  collective  international  action  to 
ensure  peace  and  security.  In  endorsing  the  successful 
outcome of the 2010  Non-Proliferation Treaty Review 
Conference,  Forum 
the 
announcement  by  the  United  States  of America  of  its 
intention  to  ratify  all  protocols  of  the  Treaty  of 
Rarotonga. 

Notwithstanding  their  size,  national  obligations 
and  circumstances,  our  respective  Forum  members 
value  and  are  proud  of  their  contributions  to  United 
Nations peacekeeping efforts. My own country is proud 
to contribute to United Nations peacekeeping missions 
in  East  Timor,  Haiti,  the  Sudan,  Bosnia,  the  Peace 
Monitoring  Group  and  the  Bougainville  Transition 
Team  in  Bougainville,  and  to  the  Regional Assistance 
Mission to the Solomon Islands. 

Terrorism is an offence to humanity and contrary 
to  the  core  values  of  the  United  Nations. We  must  be 
resolute in our national and collective efforts to combat 
terrorism  in  all  its  forms.  For  my  own  country,  I 
reaffirm  our  strong  support  for  the  relevant  Security 
Council 
terrorism.  Those 
resolutions provide a clear signal of our determination 
leaders  also  welcomed 
resolutions 
against 
10-55128 

15 
to  achieve 
A/65/PV.20 

to  suppress  terrorist  activities,  including  training, 
international movement and financing. 

All  of  us  present  here  today  have  described  the 
various  stages  of  our  progress 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  For  our 
island countries, our increasing vulnerability to threats 
and  challenges,  underscored  by  the  impacts  of  the 
global  economic,  financial,  fuel  and  food  crises,  is 
exacerbated  by  the  current  and  impending  impacts  of 
climate change, as well as our inherent limited capacity 
to  respond.  This  is  not  to  say,  however,  that  we  have 
not  made  progress  in  achieving  any  of  those  goals. 
With respect to Goal 2, the primary education systems 
of 
the  Pacific  region  are  characterized  by  high 
enrolment,  with  six  of  our  countries  currently 
displaying  net  enrolment  ratios  of  over  90  per  cent. 
Most,  if  not  all,  of  our  Pacific  island  countries  are 
expected  to  meet  the  goal  of  gender  equality  in 
education by 2015. We have been able to achieve those 
goals  because  we  have  localized  the  global  indicators 
by  adjusting  them  to  suit  our  local  circumstances  and 
priorities. 

While we remain concerned about the pace of our 
progress  towards  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
we  are  committed  to  accelerating  progress  towards 
achieving them by 2015. The Port Vila Declaration on 
Accelerating  Progress  on  the  Achievement  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals, which was adopted by 
Pacific Forum leaders at their meeting in Vanuatu last 
month,  recognizes  that 
the  MDGs  are  extremely 
important,  as  is  also  the  incremental  path  towards 
achieving those Goals — a path that should recognize 
and  accommodate 
the  special  circumstances  and 
challenges  we  face  in  the  Pacific.  The  Port  Vila 
Declaration 
importance  of 
mainstreaming  the  programme  of  support  for  the 
sustainable  development  of  small  island  developing 
States  —  which 
the  Barbados 
Programme of Action for the Sustainable Development 
of  Small  Island  Developing  States  and  the  Mauritius 
Strategy 
the 
Barbados Programme of Action — as an accelerator for 
achieving the MDGs in the Pacific and addressing the 
specific  vulnerabilities  that  we  face.  To  ensure  the 
success  of  the  Port  Vila  Declaration,  we  call  for  the 
support,  collaborative  action  and  commitment  of  the 
international community and our development partners — 
particularly  an  improved  understanding  of  and  ability 
Implementation  of 
also  highlights 
for 
the  Further 
the 
is  captured 
in 

improved 
to  address  our  vulnerabilities  and  for 
coordination of efforts towards achieving the MDGs. 

Advancing the Pacific islands’ work with respect 
to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  is  closely  and 
inextricably  linked  to  the  Mauritius  Strategy.  The 
development  and  endorsement  of  the  Pacific  Plan  by 
the  Forum  leaders  in  2005  underscored  the  critical 
need for creating stronger and deeper linkages between 
our  countries  and  for  identifying  sectors  where  the 
region could gain the most by sharing resources in the 
area of governance and by aligning policies. While we 
believe that  we have made some  excellent progress in 
effectively implementing the Mauritius Strategy at the 
national and regional levels, we also acknowledge our 
shortcomings,  some  of  which  are  beyond  our  control. 
The  growing  vulnerabilities  of  our  Pacific  island 
countries are exacerbated by the impacts of the global 
economic  crisis,  climate  change  and  natural  disasters, 
and those factors affect our abilities to respond. 

Climate change remains the greatest threat to the 
livelihoods,  security  and  well-being  of  the  peoples  of 
the Pacific. Continuing and concerted efforts by Forum 
members  are  being  made  at  the  national,  regional  and 
international  levels  to  address  the  impacts  of  climate 
change  on  Pacific  communities  and  peoples.  The 
degree  of  urgency  for  real  commitments  to  emissions 
reduction must be commensurate with the science and 
with  the  associated  impacts  of  climate  change  on  the 
most  vulnerable  communities.  This  issue  must  not  be 
viewed with an eye to short-term impacts on traditional 
industrial  growth  or  political  tenure,  but  rather  with  a 
longer-term  consideration  of 
the  sustainability  of 
economies,  societies  and  peoples  the  world  over.  A 
meaningful,  legally  binding  agreement  on  emissions 
reduction must be reached urgently and without delay. 
Recognizing  the  importance  of  effective  coordination 
and  implementation  of  climate  change  adaptation  and 
mitigation efforts at all levels — and particularly at the 
national level — Forum leaders have endorsed a set of 
principles  that  will  guide  Forum  island  countries  and 
development  partners  in  this  regard,  bearing  in  mind 
existing  and  ongoing  efforts  in  the  region.  Those 
principles  are consistent with the Cairns Compact  and 
the  Pacific  Islands  Framework  for  Action  on  Climate 
Change, and they reflect recognition by Forum leaders 
of  the  important  role  that  regional  and  international 
arrangements  play  in  supporting  national  adaptation 
and  mitigation  through  the  enhancement  of  capacity 
and access to resources. 
10-55128 
16 

in 
increase 
bringing 
representation  and 



I am also pleased to say that, ahead of the Cancún 
climate change meetings this November and December, 
the Government of Kiribati will be hosting the Tarawa 
Climate  Change  Conference 
in  November.  We 
anticipate 
of 
representatives 
together 
countries  vulnerable  to  the  impact  of  climate  change, 
as well as representatives of major economies. 

Allow me at this juncture to make a few remarks 
pertinent to Vanuatu’s position on a number of issues. 
We  are meeting here  at this Assembly session to once 
again renew our commitment to the United Nations and 
to the principles enshrined in its Charter. However, the 
need  to  reform  the  United  Nations  to  ensure  that  it 
effectively  responds  to  the  needs  of  its  Members 
remains imperative. 

In that regard, I wish to commend the Secretary-
General  for  advancing  the  work  on  the  reform  of  the 
Security Council. We note the work done by the Chair 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  question 
of  equitable 
the 
membership of the Security Council and other matters 
related  to  the  Council.  So  we  join  all  like-minded 
States  in  encouraging  the  United  Nations  to  pursue 
equitable  reforms 
to 
minimize  the  democratic  deficit  in  the  multilateral 
arena. 

My  Government  also  joins  all  other  heads  of 
Governments  that  are  Members  of  the  United  Nations 
family  in  congratulating  the  Secretary-General  on 
bringing  to  a  reality  the  efforts  over  four  years  to 
create the office of UN Women, a new entity formally 
established by the General Assembly within the United 
Nations created in July of this year. That decision gives 
more  prominence  to  women  and  their  place  in  our 
society.  

Vanuatu celebrated 30 years of political freedom 
last  July.  This  year  marks  the  end  of  the  Second 
International  Decade 
of  Decolonization.  My 
Government  wishes  to  question  the  progress  on  some 
important  processes  of  self-determination. 
is 
disturbing  to  think  that  we  may  legitimize  practices 
that  contravene  the  very  principles  on  which  this 
Organization has been founded. Are we to assume that 
decolonization  issues  may  be  ignored  in  the  years  to 
come so as not to unsettle the status quo? 

to  decolonization  and  severe 
human  rights  violations  must  be  effectively  and 
impartially addressed. We call upon the United Nations 
Issues  relating 
institutions 
in  order 
in 
its 
A/65/PV.20
are 
respect 
to  and 
suppressed 
to  strengthen  its  efforts  in  working  towards  full 
decolonization  of  Territories  that  are  still  under  the 
control  of  administrating  Powers.  Where  there  are 
serious  reports  of  human  rights  violations,  there  must 
be  a  stronger  United  Nations  role  in  investigating  all 
allegations of human atrocity. We are reminded that the 
noble  task  of  our  multilateral  Organization  is  to 
reaffirm  our  commitment 
for 
fundamental human rights and the dignity of the human 
person. 

We are encouraged to see emerging nations, such 
as Kosovo, rising from the turmoil of restraint to take 
up  their  position  in  the  midst  of  the  independent 
nations  of  the  world.  It  is  in  the  spirit  of  democratic 
freedom  that  justice  must  prevail  for  those  peoples 
whose  right  to  political  freedom  continues  to  be 
suppressed  by  colonial  and  illegitimate  administrating 
Powers.  That  includes  for  those  countries whose 
political  freedom  to  claim  their  rights  to  territorial 
sovereignty  under  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the Law of the Sea and those whose political freedom 
to rightfully claim an extended continental shelf under 
the  Convention 
colonial 
administrative rule. 

As  we  applaud  calls  for  a  peaceful  resolution  of 
the  conflict  between  Israel  and  Palestine,  my  country 
also calls for the lifting of the embargo on Cuba, which 
will  enable  the  good  people  of  Cuba  to  improve  their 
lives. 

My  country,  together  with  other  least  developed 
countries in the Pacific, has consistently argued in this 
forum  that  the  mechanisms  and  criteria  for  assessing 
graduation  eligibility  must  not  be  isolated  from  the 
permanent and inherent vulnerabilities of our countries. 
It is unrealistic for United Nations agencies to look at 
the  progress  and  make  projections  without  taking  into 
consideration  the  issues  of  permanent  vulnerabilities 
and  capacity  to  sustain  growth  in  our  countries. 
Indicators  for  most  Millennium  Development  Goals 
clearly  demonstrate 
in  human 
development.  Climate  change,  volcanic  eruptions  and 
other  disasters  will  continue  to  be  significant  factors 
inhibiting  human  development  in  our  islands.  Such 
factors  are  critical,  and  we  therefore  reiterate  our 
position  that  they  must  be  carefully  weighed  in  the 
vulnerability graduation criteria. 

In the case of our very close neighbour, Fiji, my 
Government  believes  that  all  players  are  interested  in 
little  progress 
by 
It 
10-55128 

17 

A/65/PV.20 

seeing  positive  political  progress  there,  which  must 
continue  to  genuinely  engage  the  good  people  of  Fiji. 
We  have  learned  that  multilateralism  offers  some 
constructive  innovations  in  diplomatic  practice,  but  it 
may  also  complicate  conflict  resolution  by  increasing 
tension between actors. 

Finally, in the spirit of reconciliation through the 
Pacific  way,  I  call  upon  all  international  and  regional 
diplomatic  actors  to  assist  in  ways  that  will  not 
polarize the region. Instead, our diplomatic approaches 
should help to give genuine dialogue and engagement a 
more  credible  opportunity.  There  should  be  genuine 
and  renewed  commitment  to  fostering  relations  in  the 
Pacific  region,  commitment  that  promotes  greater 
freedom, 
and 
integration, as envisaged in the Pacific Plan document. 

In  conclusion,  I  take  this  opportunity  to  express 
my  gratitude  to  all  our  development  partners  for  the 
support 
in  building  our 
economies.  I  believe  more  can  be  done  to  assist  the 
Pacific  island  countries  in  addressing  the  growing 
challenges confronting the region. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Republic  of Vanuatu  for  the  statement 
he has just made. 

Mr.  Edward  Natapei,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic  of  Vanuatu,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
they  are  providing 
cooperation, 
friendship 
regional 
that 



  Address by Mr. Tillman Thomas, Prime 
Minister and Minister of National Security, 
Information and Legal Affairs of Grenada 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  of  National  Security,  Information  and  Legal 
Affairs of Grenada. 

Mr. Tillman Thomas, Prime Minister and Minister 
of  National  Security,  Information  and  Legal 
Affairs of Grenada, was escorted to the rostrum. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  great 
pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Tillman 
Thomas,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  of  National 
Security,  Information  and  Legal  Affairs  of  Grenada, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
is 
the 
Mr.  Thomas  (Grenada):  I  am  honoured 
to 

address  this  body.  I  do  so  at  a  time  when  the  world 
continues  to  face  multiple  challenges,  foremost  of 
which  for  small  island  developing  States  such  as 
financial  and 
Grenada 
fragile  economic, 
ecological  situation.  But  despite 
those  difficult 
circumstances,  the  people  of  Grenada  demonstrate 
tremendous  resilience.  Resourcefulness,  patience  and 
abiding  faith  in  God  keep  us  going  forward.  We  will 
therefore  not  relent.  Our  resolve  is  firm.  Dedication, 
creativity,  renewed  commitment  to  our  fellow  beings, 
unwavering  commitment  to  multilateralism  and,  most 
of all, solidarity will help us survive these trying times. 

Indeed,  as it  did in the past, this body  can again 
prove to be the perfect partner in our quest to solve our 
problems,  if  only  we  commit  ourselves  to  cooperate 
more with each other. Carefully targeted technical and 
other  forms  of  assistance  to  countries  most  in  need 
would make a vast difference in the lives of millions. 

It  is  in  that  spirit  that  I  join  the  many  speakers 
who preceded me in congratulating you, Mr. President, 
on  your  election  to  guide  the  General Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fifth session. You have Grenada’s full support. 

We  commend  the  outgoing  President,  Mr.  Ali 
Abdussalam Treki, for his dedication and able handling 
of the Assembly’s work in the year just ended and wish 
him  the  very  best  for  the  future.  In  addition,  Grenada 
recognizes  the  tireless  stewardship  and  leadership  of 
the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, as the United 
Nations  tackles  the  very  complex  array  of  global 
issues. 
In  her  July  address  to  the  United  Nations,  Her 

Majesty  Queen  Elizabeth 
the 
Commonwealth  of  Nations,  concluded  her  remarks 
with  customary  clarity  and  insightfulness,  affirming 
that  the  United  Nations  is  a  real  force  for  common 
good 
that 
statement. 
At  the  very  inception  of  the  Organization,  65 

years ago, its objectives were to avoid future wars and 
maintain  the  peace,  and  to  partner  with  developing 
countries  in  their  social  and  economic  development. 
Grenada is satisfied that after more than six decades of 
existence,  those  goals  remain  worthy  of  continuing 
pursuit. 

In  times  of  conflict,  strife,  natural  disasters  and 
other  humanitarian  matters,  the  United  Nations  has 
(see  A/64/PV.105).  Grenada  supports 
head 
II, 
of 
18 

10-55128 
I  am  hopeful 


been  the  first  place  to  turn  to.  Its  relevance,  role  and 
involvement  in  global  affairs  remain  unquestionable. 
Any  weakening  of  its  authority  and  effectiveness 
cannot  be  in  our  best  interests.  The  United  Nations 
must  remain  the  premier  organization  for  global 
diplomacy  and  negotiations.  We  must  do  nothing  to 
hinder the United Nations continuing as a real force for 
good  in  the  world.  Indeed,  the  United  Nations  must 
lead, not follow, in global governance. 
Times  have  changed.  The  world  is  facing  new 

realities,  and 
the  United  Nations  must  adjust 
accordingly. For that reason, the recent advances made 
in  United  Nations  system-wide  coherence  deserve 
special commendation. The formation of the new body, 
UN Women,  aimed  principally  at  promoting  the  rights 
of women and girls and equality between the sexes, is 
an  early  success  of  United  Nations  reform  and  is 
embraced  by  Grenada.  Our  desire 
to  actively 
participate  in  the  fulfilment  of  the  noble  objectives  of 
UN Women  has  led  us  to  seek  membership  on  its 
Executive  Board. 
that  Grenada’s 
candidacy will receive strong support and be elected. 

Similarly, the United Nations must recognize the 
inherent  imperatives  of  democracy.  Continued  failure 
to meaningfully reform the Security Council will deny 
that  body  the  political  legitimacy  it  needs  to  maintain 
and  indeed  enhance  its  leadership  role.  Grenada  joins 
with the Caribbean Community and calls for a Security 
Council seat for small island States as soon as possible. 

Climate change is rightly described as one of the 
most urgent issues facing humanity and must remain at 
the  top  of  the  global  diplomatic  and  negotiating 
agenda.  Left  unchecked,  its  potential  consequences 
could  be  catastrophic,  particularly  for  small  island 
developing States. Recent studies confirm that over the 
past five decades the planet has heated up and that 93 
per  cent  of  this  warming  has  occurred  in  the  oceans. 
The consequential rise in sea level is already affecting 
low-lying countries in the Caribbean and beyond and is 
undermining  small  economies,  ruining  their  societies 
and threatening their very existence. 

In  that  connection,  we  continue  to  call  for 
ambitious  mitigation  targets  and  to  welcome  climate 
financing.  Fast-start 
the  amount  of  
$30  billion,  announced  in  2009  and  intended  to  assist 
developing  countries,  especially  the  most  climate-
vulnerable nations, has reached only a small percentage 
of developing countries, and just a fraction of promised 
funding 
in 
A/65/PV.20
for 
for 
Grenada  welcomes 
the  empanelling  of 
the  Mauritius  Strategy 
the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting 
funds  has  been  released.  Clearly,  that  situation  has  to 
be  corrected, 
financial  assistance  must  be 
commensurate  with  the  scale  of  the  threat  faced  and 
should  be  sustained,  especially  for  small 
island 
developing States. 

the 
Secretary-General’s  High-level  Advisory  Group  on 
Climate Change Financing and the High-level Panel on 
Global  Sustainability.  We  anticipate  that  in  their 
reports the matter of appropriate and sustainable levels 
of climate-change financing will be properly addressed 
and promoted. 
What  an  important  review  year  2010  is.  We 

applaud 
on 
biodiversity (see A/65/PV.7 and PV.10) and support the 
call to halt species loss. We welcome the convening of 
the High-level Review Meeting on the implementation 
of 
the  Further 
Implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action 
for  the  Sustainable  Development  of  Small  Island 
Developing  States  (MSI+5)  (see  A/65/PV.13  and 
PV.18). In its capacity as Chair of the Alliance of Small 
Island  States,  Grenada  was  privileged  to  play  a 
coordinating role in that important review process, and 
we  thank  all,  including  our  development  partners  and 
the  United  Nations,  for  undertaking  the  process  with 
us.  Now  that  this  body  has  endorsed  the  political 
declaration,  we  call  for quick  and  full  implementation 
of the MSI+5 decisions. 
Similarly,  Grenada  welcomes  the  Millennium 

Development  Goals 
its 
determination to achieve them. Our report submitted in 
the just-concluded review process indicated that while 
Grenada has made progress, there is much more to be 
done  to  achieve  the  established  Goals  within  the  five 
years that remain. 

It is our view that if our countries are to eliminate 
poverty and realize their true potential, there must be a 
comprehensive  review  of  the  criteria  for  determining 
middle-income  status.  Many  countries  placed  in  that 
category,  including  Grenada,  are  highly  indebted  and 
to  achieve 
deserve 
sustainable  development.  Small 
island  developing 
States  cannot  attain  their  full  potential  if  they  are 
prematurely set adrift in the development ocean with a 
false diagnosis of full preparedness. No matter what its 
growth  pattern  or  level,  a  country  with  37  per  cent 
poverty and debt-to-GDP ratio of over 100 per cent — 
special  attention 
in  order 
and 
remains 
firm 
in 
10-55128 

19 
towards 

A/65/PV.20 

as is the case with Grenada — cannot be ready to sail 
the high seas of development financing autonomy. That 
day will come, but it is not yet here. 

Grenada registers its strong support for the call for a 
United Nations high-level meeting on non-communicable 
diseases — NCDs. Currently, NCDs constitute the main 
cause  of  morbidity  and  mortality  in  our  region.  Life 
expectancy depends to a great extent on the avoidance 
of  such  illnesses,  and  thus  preventative  policies  must 
be aimed at promoting changes in lifestyles. Therefore, 
we view with a great degree of satisfaction the progress 
made  by  our  Caribbean  representatives  here  at  the 
United  Nations  in  articulating  the  need  for  such  a 
meeting  in  2011.  I  pledge  Grenada’s  participation  at 
the highest level. 

Grenada  has  confidence  in  the  United  Nations 
and in the work it can do. We unreservedly support the 
pursuit  of  international  peace  and  security,  the  rule  of 
law, the promotion of democracy and human rights, the 
fight against terrorism, the fight against the illicit drug 
trade and the many other issues that threaten our world. 

We also believe in justice. The economic progress 
and  realization  of  the  full  potential  of  a  fellow 
Caribbean  nation  continues  to  be  stifled  by  a  now 
infamous  economic  embargo  of  over  45  years.  As  a 
result,  its  people  are  humiliated  by  shortages  and 
deprived of basic necessities essential to decent human 
existence. The  vast  majority  of  countries  in  the  world 
have  consistently  and  overwhelmingly  voted  in  this 
very forum for its removal, but the irony persists. 
Grenada again urges the United States of America 

to  do  what  is  right  and  completely  lift  the  harsh 
economic measures against the people of Cuba, if only 
on humanitarian grounds. In the spirit of fair trade and 
good-neighbourliness, Grenada also calls on the United 
States  to  honour  the  recent  decision  in  favour  of 
Antigua and Barbuda in the World Trade Organization, 
as  that  too  would  show  respect  for  the  decisions  of 
international tribunals. 
Grenada  reminds  the  world  of  the  Caribbean 

Community’s 
response  and 
continuing presence in Haiti, following the devastating 
earthquake  earlier  this  year. The  successful  rebuilding 
of Haiti will  benefit  all,  and Grenada  calls  for a  swift 
delivery  of  the  pledged  commitments  made  to  that 
sister Caribbean nation. 
instant  and  pivotal 
is  particularly  pleased 

We are obliged to work selflessly to preserve the 
world  for  future  generations.  The  avoidance  of  a 
nuclear  confrontation  is  one  sure  way.  We  therefore 
congratulate  the  Government  of  the  United  States  and 
all  other  Governments  that  have  put  much  time  and 
effort 
the  non-proliferation  of  nuclear 
weapons. 

We  are  also  encouraged  by  recent  positive  signs 
of  engagement  between  warring  parties,  and  we  hope 
that  political  and  military  conflicts  around  the  world 
and, moreover, in the Middle East will soon come to an 
end.  Grenada 
the 
Palestinians  and  Israelis  are  prepared  to  resume  talks 
over their long-standing dispute with a view to finding 
a lasting peace once and for all. 

We empathize with the many countries that have 
had to cope with recent natural disasters: Chile, China, 
Pakistan, New Zealand and Guatemala. 
Over the decades, the United Nations has played 

critical  roles  in  almost  every  facet  of  global  affairs: 
political,  economic  and  social. That  is  its  strength,  its 
enduring mission. Grenada remains ready to work with 
all who are partnering in political, economic and social 
development and seeing the United Nations as a forum 
for working through all thorny issues. 

However,  there  will  be  no  international  peace  and 
stability  if  people  are  unhappy,  if  they  have  no  food  or 
clothing,  if  they  have  no  potable  water  or  shelter  from 
adverse  climatic  conditions. There  will  be  no security  if 
disputes cannot be settled amicably, if nations are not free 
to determine their own destiny and if diversity among us 
is  not  recognized  and  fully  respected.  The  world  would 
certainly  be  a  better  place  if  we  shared  our  world’s 
resources to assist the more vulnerable among us. 

I  challenge  this  Organization,  for  another  65  years 
starting  with  this  sixty-fifth  session,  to  harness  our 
strengths and continue to make the United Nations what 
we all want it to be — a real force for good in the world. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister 
of  National  Security, 
Information  and  Legal  Affairs  of  Grenada  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr. Tillman Thomas, Prime Minister and Minister 
of  National  Security,  Information  and  Legal 
Affairs  of  Grenada,  was  escorted 
the 
rostrum. 
and  Minister 
that 
from 
20 

10-55128 




to  rededicate  efforts 
  Address by Ms. Kamla Persad-Bissessar, MP, 
Prime Minister of the Republic of Trinidad  
and Tobago 

The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 
will now hear an address by the Prime Minister of the 
Republic of Trinidad and Tobago. 

Ms. Kamla Persad-Bissessar, MP, Prime Minister 
of  the  Republic  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  was 
escorted to the rostrum. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  great 

pleasure  in  welcoming  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Kamla 
Persad-Bissessar,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of 
Trinidad  and  Tobago,  and  inviting  her  to  address  the 
General Assembly. 
Ms.  Persad-Bissessar  (Trinidad  and  Tobago): 

First,  I  offer  my  congratulations  on  your  election,  
Mr. President. I also take this opportunity to recognize 
the  leadership  of  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon, 
whose  influence  brought  to  this  sixty-fifth  session  of 
the  General  Assembly  139  heads  of  State  or 
Government 
to  achieve 
the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015. 

It is with a sense of hope for a better world that I 
address this Assembly of leaders and decision makers. 
I join the Assembly and the international community in 
echoing  the  call  for  a  world  where  people  are  again 
placed  at  the  centre  of  our  actions,  where  the  care  of 
children is given greater priority, where poverty is seen 
as  an  enemy  of  human  dignity,  where  peace  can  be 
achieved  without  bloodshed,  where  conversations 
resulting  in  greater  tolerance,  mutual  respect  and 
understanding  would  motivate  cooperation  and  unity, 
and  where  selflessly  sacrificing  one’s  best  skills  and 
resources for the benefit of fellow human beings would 
be the primary purpose of our actions. I believe that all 
of  this  is  possible  if  we  recommit  ourselves  to  the 
founding  principles  upon  which  the  United  Nations 
was built. 

The  United  Nations  must  continue  to  provide  a 
voice to all States whether small or large, developed or 
developing,  industrialized  or  agrarian.  The  Charter  of 
the United Nations provides for the sovereign equality 
of all States. It must be at the centre of all discussions 
and  decisions  geared  towards  meeting  the  demands  of 
its  membership  in  this  third  millennium.  For  that 
reason,  we  welcome  the  theme  of  this  year’s  debate: 
A/65/PV.20
“Reaffirming the central  role of the United Nations in 
global governance”. 

We  are  of  the  view,  as  are  many  of  you,  that  no 
nation  will  be  safe  and  no  democracy  will  prevail  if 
there is no mutual cooperation towards global stability, 
fashioned by opportunity for all, equity and the ability 
to  feed,  provide  health  care,  clothing,  housing  and 
education  for  people  everywhere.  We  are  all  in  this 
together. We shall rise or fall together. 

Let us not take for granted the significance of our 
presence here. That we  can sit in one Hall means that 
we  can  also  work  together  to  achieve  those  noble 
objectives, which foster and promote global peace and 
stability. 
To  realize  those  goals,  our  debate  of  this  topic 

must  not  be  reduced  to  empty  rhetoric  and  nice 
language.  We  must  reaffirm  the  essential  role  of  the 
United Nations in resolving global issues and make the 
United Nations more accountable. So we must look at a 
wider definition of global governance. 

It  is  our  respectful  view  that  global  governance 
must not only mean agreement on a body of rules, laws 
or practices that place the United Nations at the centre 
of  all  matters  which  confront 
international 
community; it must also mean that we hold our leaders 
and  institutions  more  accountable  for  their  actions, 
delivering  a  better  quality  of  life  for  all  our  peoples. 
No nation large or small must be exempted. 

Global  governance  cannot  be  limited  to  the 
crafting  of  instruments  related  to  the  promotion  of 
democracy. A  key  component  must  be  the  creation  of 
fair  and  equitable  rules  to  enhance  the  development 
prospects  of  developing  countries  as  well.  We 
recognize  the  rules  governing  membership  of  groups 
such as the Group of 20 (G20), but a mechanism must, 
we  believe,  be  established  to  insert  the  voice  of  the 
United  Nations  in  the  activities  of  those  groups,  such 
that the concerns and needs of all Members are actively 
considered. Trinidad and Tobago therefore calls for the 
establishment  of  predictable  and  regular  channels  to 
facilitate  dialogue  between 
the  G20  nations  and 
Members  of  the  United  Nations,  which  constitute  the 
“Group of 192” or the “G192”. It is our hope that some 
of  those  issues  will  be  examined  at  the  next  G20 
Summit, scheduled in November of this year. 

At the same time, Trinidad and Tobago, as Chair-
in-Office  of  the  Commonwealth,  calls  on  the  General 
the 
10-55128 

21 
vulnerable 
to 

economies.  The 
A/65/PV.20 

Assembly to recognize the important work being done 
by the Commonwealth, especially as it relates to small 
and 
international 
community  must  do  more  to  deal  with  the  economic 
plight  of  its  most  vulnerable  Members,  which  depend 
heavily on the flow of international capital and trade to 
ensure  that  their  development  needs  are  met. Trinidad 
and Tobago  intends  to  use  its  position  as  Chair  of  the 
Commonwealth 
to  promote  enhanced  cooperation 
between the United Nations and the Commonwealth so 
as 
facilitate  measures  aimed  at  providing 
development  financing  in  a  predictable  manner  to 
developing  countries.  This  would  mean  a  willingness 
on  the  part  of  international  financial  institutions  to 
re-examine  whether  some  of  their  policies  have  been 
creating a perpetual cycle of poverty for small nations. 
Such a cycle must not be allowed to continue. 

A  few  days  ago  I  participated  here  in  the  High-
level Plenary Meeting on the Millennium Development 
Goals. Since then, the question that keeps lingering in 
my mind is whether we would have to convene another 
meeting in the future — shortly — to restate the urgent 
need to provide the necessary assistance to developing 
countries,  so  that  they  can  meet  the  MDGs.  While  I 
applaud  the  noble  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  in 
providing  an  enabling  environment  for  leaders  to 
exchange  ideas  and  to  formulate  solutions  on  the 
subject, I must confess that over the years we have had 
ample rhetoric but insufficient action on this matter. 

In my country we have put in place a Ministry of 
the People to deal with poverty eradication and hunger 
as a priority. This is just one vehicle aimed at placing 
us in a position to honour our commitments to reduce 
poverty.  However,  we  are  of  the  firm  view  that 
international  cooperation 
is  also  essential.  Good 
governance  requires  that  developed  countries  fulfil 
their commitments made at the Millennium Summit to 
provide  assistance  to  developing  countries,  so  that 
those countries can achieve the MDGs by the deadline 
set. The  deficit  in  commitment  has  to  be  addressed  if 
real advances are to be made. We all have a duty to the 
future.  It  will  be  measured  by  how  we  fulfil  our 
responsibilities today. 
My  Government  has  created  the  Children’s  Life 

Fund to provide funding and critical support for children 
needing  life-saving  surgery.  It  is our  belief  that  children 
must not die in our country — or in any other country — 
because they cannot afford health care — not in the year 
2010.  There  must  be  new  arrangements  and 
My  colleague 
relationships  between  countries  that  have  advanced 
medical technology and those without, so that children 
of  the  poorest  nations  can  grow  as  healthy  human 
beings and achieve their full potential. It is only when 
this is done that the world will progress. 

spoke  about  
from  Grenada 
non-communicable  diseases.  Trinidad  and  Tobago, 
joined by other members of the Caribbean Community 
(CARICOM),  has  reiterated  that  call  for  international 
attention on the issue of the prevention and control of 
non-communicable  diseases.  We  have  agreed  that  in 
September  2011  a  high-level  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly  on  non-communicable  diseases  will  be 
convened  (resolution  64/265).  Much  work  remains  to 
be  done,  if  we  are  to  have  a  successful  meeting  next 
year. In order to achieve the desired results, the United 
Nations  will  have  put  in  place  a  common  set  of 
principles  to  tackle  this  important  concern  of  global 
public health. 

On  the  issue  of  climate  change,  we  say  that 
Trinidad  and  Tobago,  as  a  small  island  developing 
State,  seeks  to  promote  and  safeguard  the  welfare  of 
our  planet  from  the  harmful  effects  of  climate  change 
and  supports  measures  aimed  at  mitigating  the  effects 
of  climate  change,  which  threaten  our  environment, 
economic  livelihood,  territorial  integrity  and  the  very 
survival  of  many  States. Although  the  United  Nations 
continues  to  be  at  the  forefront  of  discussions  to 
confront  this  formidable  challenge,  progress  has  been 
much  too  slow.  In  making  our  contribution  to  the 
process,  we  wish  to  reiterate  the  position  of  the 
Alliance  of  Small  Island  States,  namely,  that  there 
should  be  deep  and  ambitious  cuts  in  greenhouse  gas 
emissions  by  developed  countries  amounting  to  about 
40  to  50  per  cent  by  the  year  2020  and  85  to  90  per 
cent by 2050. 

In order for there to be meaningful advancement 
at the sixteenth session of the Conference of the Parties 
to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change, to be held in Mexico, we must utilize 
the 
coming  United  Nations  Climate  Change 
Conference,  to  be  held  in  China,  to  agree  on  the 
identification  of  additional  and  predictable  sources  of 
finance,  institutional  issues  related  to  finance  and  the 
form  of  the  final  agreement.  It  is  our  respectful  view 
that  urgent  and  concerted  action  is  the  only  viable 
option 
the  upcoming 
negotiations. 
to  bring  about  results  at 
22 

10-55128 
to 
I 
say 
the 
the 
incidence  of 
this 
Respectfully 
to  provide  assistance 
international  community  with 



I turn now to the issue of natural disasters. One of 
the  first  problems  I  encountered,  almost  immediately 
after taking the oath of office four months ago, was the 
issue  of  unprecedented  and  widespread  flooding  that 
resulted  in  tremendous  financial  and  other  losses  to 
victims and placed a strain on the resources of the local 
emergency  management  services.  My  Government 
continues 
the  affected 
communities,  while  we  devise  long-term  strategies  to 
reduce 
type  of  flooding. 
Nevertheless, I recognize that we are not alone to have 
been  faced  with  this  grave  problem.  Recent  events  in 
Haiti,  Pakistan  and  Russia  have  demonstrated  that 
greater  international  action  is  needed  to  provide  relief 
to 
those  affected  by  flooding  and  other  natural 
disasters. 
In  the  Caribbean  the  case  of  a  devastated  Haiti 

provides 
the 
opportunity  not  only  to  be  compassionate,  but  to  also 
learn  major  lessons  on  disaster  preparedness  and 
management. 
that  — 
notwithstanding  the  valuable  work  being  done  by  the 
Central  Emergency  Response  Fund  (CERF),  to  which 
Trinidad and Tobago has made annual contributions — 
more action is required to provide the agency with the 
requisite  resources  in  the  face  of  ever  increasing 
natural disasters. In this regard, I respectfully call upon 
those  States  that  are  in  a  position  to  do  so  to  make 
financial contributions to CERF, so that it can respond 
more efficiently and effectively to humanitarian crises 
due to floods and other natural disasters. 
There  is  another  persistent  matter  receiving  the 

attention  of  my  Government  and  others  of 
the 
CARICOM region, which is the illegal proliferation of 
small arms and light weapons and their ammunition. In 
our  attempts  to  address  this  problem,  we  have  had  to 
divert  financial  resources  that  we  could  have  used 
otherwise  for  economic  and  social  development.  We 
have  observed  an  increase  in  gang-related  violence, 
homicides,  the  illegal  narcotics  trade  and  organized 
crime. The origin of the illicit trade in those weapons is 
beyond  our  national  borders.  It  is  of  international 
dimension and therefore requires a global response. We 
are  encouraged  by  the  attempts  of  the  United  Nations 
to conclude a legally binding agreement to regulate the 
trade in conventional weapons. It is our view that this 
instrument must also make provision for regulating the 
trade 
thereby 
preventing their illegal diversion. 
in  small  arms  and 
light  weapons, 
10-55128 

A/65/PV.20

Trinidad  and  Tobago  also  calls  for  a  strong  and 
effective  implementation  regime  to  ensure  proper 
compliance  with  the  provisions  of  the  treaty  to  be 
drafted.  It  must  also  include  a  proper  verification 
mechanism  and  a  sanctions  regime  for  breach  of  its 
terms.  Such  safeguards  would  assist  in  preserving  the 
object and purpose of the agreement. 

We  have  partnered  with  other  members  of  the 
international  community  to  establish  rules  governing 
the  non-proliferation  of  nuclear,  chemical  and  other 
types of weapons, which could create untold suffering 
for humanity. However, in the Caribbean, our weapons 
of  mass  destruction,  are,  ironically,  small  arms  and 
light weapons. Therefore I implore all those States that 
have  been  reticent  about  the  need  for  an  arms  trade 
treaty  to  join  us  in  this  undertaking.  I  pledge  the 
commitment  of  my  Government  to  work  with  other 
like-minded  States  to  ensure  a  successful  outcome  of 
the  Preparatory  Committee  for  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty  and  ultimately 
the Conference itself, scheduled to take place in 2012. 

Tied  together  with  the  issue  of  small  arms  and 
ammunition is drug trafficking. Regulating the trade in 
small  arms  and  light  weapons  is  not  an  end  in  itself. 
Urgent  international  action  must  also  be  taken  to  deal 
with  the  issue  of  international  drug  trafficking.  We 
cannot  allow  our  young  people  to  continue  to  fall 
victim to this monster, which has fuelled transnational 
organized  crime  and  resulted  in  cross-border  armed 
violence,  threatening  the  political  and  social  stability 
of  many  nations.  National  Governments  alone  cannot 
solve  this  problem  because  of  its  global  dimension. 
Governments  are  forced  to  divert  scarce  resources, 
which should be used for social programmes, in order 
to  confront  the  challenge  posed  by  narco-trafficking. 
We need urgent action to address this problem. 

In 1989, the Honourable Arthur Robinson, former 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Trinidad  and 
Tobago,  took  the  political  initiative  to  reintroduce  on 
the  agenda  of  the  General Assembly  the  need  for  the 
establishment  of  a  permanent  International  Criminal 
Court  (ICC).  The  Court  has  since  been  established. 
However,  his  call  for  international  drug  trafficking  to 
be  included  as  a  crime  within  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
ICC  has  not  yet  been  realized.  Today,  I  say  that  it  is 
even  more  critical  for  this  to  be  done.  I  therefore 
respectfully  call  upon  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations which are States parties to the Rome Statute of 
the  ICC  to  include  international  drug  trafficking  as  a 
23 
Finally,  10  years  ago 
A/65/PV.20 

crime within the jurisdiction of the ICC. The ICC is the 
only  credible  international  judicial  organ  with  the 
competence  to  prosecute  those  who  perpetrate  this 
crime. 

In closing, I wish to raise one area of reform that 
I  hold  very  dearly.  That  is  the  establishment  of  
UN Women, an entity which consolidates four previous 
agencies.  I  am  confident  that  this  venture,  which  will 
become fully operational by January 2011, will provide 
a  coherent  approach  in  attending  to  issues  affecting 
women  internationally.  It  is  my  hope  that  UN Women 
will receive the support of all States. 

the  Security  Council 
adopted  resolution  1325  (2000)  on  women  and  peace 
and  security,  acknowledging  that  there  can  be  no 
sustainable peace and security without the involvement 
and  contribution  of  women.  Trinidad  and  Tobago  is 
committed to advancing the peace and security agenda 
of the United Nations, and my country’s attachment to 
the promotion of women is equally strong. That is why 
I wish to state that Trinidad and Tobago will introduce 
in  the  First  Committee  of  the  General  Assembly, 
devoted 
international  peace  and 
security,  a  resolution  on  women,  disarmament,  arms 
control  and  non-proliferation.  I  pledge  the  support  of 
the  Government  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago  for  this 
initiative. 

We have spent a decade in this third millennium. 
In retrospect, have we advanced as a world community 
in ways that will create a sustainable environment and 
secure  the  lives  of  people  everywhere?  Yes,  we  have 
made 
communications 
technology;  yes,  we  are  a  global  village  as  a  result  of 
improvements; but, regrettably, we cannot say that we 
are  our  neighbours’  keepers.  There  are  still  too  many 
fences  between  us  —  fences  of  politics,  ideology, 
religion,  ethnicity,  culture  and  traditions.  As  human 
beings,  we  have  the  unique  capacity  to  reason  and  on 
the  basis  of 
to  develop  deeper 
understandings.  Today,  I  respectfully  say:  Let  us 
pledge to use this understanding gained from reasoning 
to promote conversations between nations and peoples; 
conversations 
threats; 
conversations geared towards finding peaceful ways to 
deal  with  differences;  conversations  borne  out  of 
mutual  respect  for  each  other  as  people  and  nations; 
conversations  founded  upon  respect  for  diversity; 
conversations  that  ensure  the  survival  of  the  human 
race and the planet as their purpose. 
replace  aggression  and 
to  disarmament, 
tremendous 
strides 
in 
that 
reasoning 
to 


As I end my contribution to this debate, I wish to 
compliment  the  United  Nations  for  all  of  the  work 
designed  to  revitalize  this  unique  global  body.  I  also 
affirm  our  support  for  efforts  and  policies  aimed  at 
revitalizing  the  central  role  of  the  United  Nations  in 
global governance. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago  for 
the statement she has just made. 

Ms.  Kamla  Persad-Bissessar,  Prime  Minister  of 
the  Republic  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  was 
escorted from the rostrum. 



  Address by Ms. Jadranka Kosor, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Croatia 

The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 
will now hear an address by the Prime Minister of the 
Republic of Croatia. 

Ms.  Jadranka  Kosor,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Croatia, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  great 

pleasure  in  welcoming  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Jadranka 
Kosor, Prime Minister of the Republic of Croatia, and 
inviting her to address the General Assembly. 
Ms.  Kosor  (Croatia): At  the  outset,  I  would  like 

to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as  President 
of  the  General  Assembly,  and  to  stress  that  you  can 
count on the full support of the Croatian delegation in 
the  coming  year.  At  the  same  time,  I  would  like  to 
thank  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki  for  his  successful 
work  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  over  the 
past  year  and  for  the  results  achieved  under  his 
leadership. 
The  consequences  of  the  serious  threats  facing 

the 
the  modern  world  — 
terrorism  and 
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction 
to 
humanitarian  crises  and  climate  change,  to  mention 
just a few — reach far beyond the original framework 
within  which  they  began.  Without  exception,  they  are 
acquiring  global  proportions.  In 
the  same  way, 
contemporary  social  and  economic  relationships  have 
grown  far  beyond  narrow  national  frameworks  and, 
through the flow of people, goods, services and capital, 
are  creating  a  global  network  of  mutual  relations  and 
influence.  Does  the  recent  eruption  of  the  volcano  on 
Iceland  not  testify  to  this  in  as  vivid  a  manner  as  the 
from 
24 

10-55128 
This 
of 
accelerated 
development 


joint  humanitarian  actions  undertaken  in  response  to 
recent terrifying natural disasters? 

the 
contemporary world, and especially the challenges and 
threats to which it is exposed, call on all of us to take 
swift  action,  shoulder  joint  responsibility  and  foment 
new  solidarity.  There  is  no  alternative  to  working 
together in today’s world. 

In that vein, the theme you have chosen, Sir, for 
the  opening  of  the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  reminds  us,  in  focusing  on  the  concept  of 
global  governance,  of  the  role  of  the  Assembly  in 
formulating  the  global  response  to  the  challenges  we 
face in today’s world. At the same time, your proposal 
calls for an examination of our own contribution to the 
formulation of responses to these challenges. 

During  its  membership  of  the  Security  Council, 
Croatia promoted the ideas that are the backbone of all 
civilized  governance  and  therefore  also  of  global 
governance: the importance of the rule of law and the 
law, 
protection  and  promotion  of 
especially  human 
rights, 
international humanitarian law and transparency in the 
work of the main bodies of the United Nations. 

Within  the  rich  legal  heritage  of  the  United 
Nations,  the  Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2) 
has  particular  significance.  That  document  confirms 
the  global  strategy  of  the  United  Nations  in  areas 
crucial to the life and well-being of a large proportion 
of humankind, and unites the activities of the relevant 
institutions  in  this  sphere.  For  Croatia,  implementing 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  is  of  additional 
importance  because  of  their  strong  link  with  the 
priorities related to the process of our accession to the 
European Union, which has entered its final phase. 

Croatia  has  decided  to  confirm  its  readiness  to 
participate  in  the  international  activities  aimed  at 
achieving 
its  financial 
contribution  to  the  programmes  and  activities  of  the 
United  Nations.  In  that  context,  allow  me  to  mention 
the  Republic  of  Croatia’s  successful  shift  from 
recipient  to  provider  of  international  aid.  Croatia  has 
aimed its support at the neighbouring region of South-
East Europe, where our knowledge and experience may 
be most useful to the recipient countries. 

Along  with  its  contribution  of  peacekeeping 
troops,  police  and  military  experts  to  14  international 
these  goals  by 
and  minority 
international 
increasing 
rights 
A/65/PV.20
like 
reform  and 
to  emphasize 
I  would  particularly 
founding  member  of 
the  United  Nations 
missions  led  by  the  United  Nations,  NATO  and  the 
European  Union,  Croatia  is  also  ready  to  share  its 
experience  with  States  emerging  from  armed  conflict 
by offering expert advice and other services in the field 
of  security  and  defence  sector 
in 
reintegrating demobilized persons into civilian society. 

that 
peacebuilding  support  for  countries  emerging  from 
armed  conflict  is  one  of  the  most  important  and 
complex challenges confronting the United Nations. In 
that  light,  Croatia  strongly  supports  the  work  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  the  report  (A/64/868, 
annex) drawn up by the co-facilitators of the process of 
reviewing 
peacebuilding 
architecture  and  the  work  of  the  Commission.  Croatia 
was  a 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  and,  wishing  to  continue  contributing  to 
the  significant  efforts  being  made  in  this  area,  has 
announced  that  it  will  be  a  candidate  for  membership 
of the Commission for the period 2012-2013. 

However important our joint action at the global 
level  may  be  to  finding  responses  to  the  many 
challenges  that  confront  us,  it  is  imperative  when  it 
comes  to  attempting  to  find  a  deterrent  to  the  use  of 
nuclear weapons. In recent years, we have witnessed a 
renewed desire within the international community for 
a  world  without  nuclear  weapons,  which  Croatia  also 
recognized  in  the  historic  Security  Council  summit  of 
September 
the 
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  with 
President Barack Obama presiding (see S/PV.6191). 

Making  its  own  contribution  to  the  significant 
efforts aimed at preventing the proliferation of nuclear 
weapons, in June the Republic of Croatia successfully 
organized  a  regional  workshop  on  the  implementation 
of Security Council resolution 1540 (2004). Of course, 
in  Croatia  we  are  aware  that  mere  words  and  adopted 
documents are not enough, especially to preventing the 
direct  threat  posed  by  the  possibility  of  terrorists 
getting  hold  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  We 
therefore  welcome  the  concrete  steps  being  taken  by 
the nuclear States to reduce their nuclear capacities and 
to  increase  the  transparency  and  security  of  nuclear 
reserves. 

At  the  same  time,  we  must  not  forget  that,  in 
parallel  with  the  existence  of  a  nuclear  threat,  the 
illegal trade in small arms and light weapons has taken 
many  human  lives.  Croatia  most  strongly  condemns 
the  prevention  of 
last  year  on 
10-55128 

25 

two  years.  During 
A/65/PV.20 

terrorism  and  is  wholly  dedicated  to  preventing  this 
threat  in  all  its  various  forms  at  the  national,  regional 
and global levels. In an attempt to make a contribution 
to  these  efforts,  during  its  time  as  a  member  of  the 
the  Counter-
Security  Council  Croatia  chaired 
Terrorism  Committee  for 
its 
presidency of the Security Council in December 2008, 
Croatia organized a debate on the subject of threats to 
international peace and security caused by terrorist acts 
(see  S/PV.6034).  The  Council 
then  adopted  a 
presidential statement (S/PRST/2008/45) calling on all 
Members of the United Nations to show the same level 
of  solidarity  they  displayed  immediately  after  the 
tragic events of 11 September 2001. 

As  a  member  of  NATO  and  a  future  member  of 
the  European  Union,  Croatia  is  strongly  engaged  in 
securing peace and stability in South-East Europe. This 
is  also  precisely  the  reason  why  we  advocate  a  clear 
Euro-Atlantic  perspective  for  all  the  States  in  the 
region. To realize that perspective, it is first necessary 
to  accept  and  fully  apply  the  principles  on  which 
European  integration  was  initiated  60  years  ago: 
cooperation, dialogue and mutual respect. 

In  that  spirit,  Croatia  and  Slovenia  last  year 
agreed  on  a  solution  to  their  long-running  border 
dispute 
international  arbitration.  By  my 
agreement with Slovenian Prime Minister Borut Pahor, 
a new page was turned in Croatian-Slovenian relations, 
and at the same time a way was opened for all the other 
countries of South-East Europe to realize their right to 
a European future through dialogue and cooperation. 
In  that  sense,  I  would  like  here  to  welcome  the 

decision  by 
to  adopt  by 
consensus  a  resolution  on  Kosovo  (64/298)  sponsored 
by  Serbia  and  the  European  Union.  In  this  way,  a 
completely  new  European  paradigm  of  cooperation, 
peace  and  progress  is  being  created  in  South-East 
Europe.  Croatia  will  lead  the  way  in  supporting  and 
promoting  these  values  throughout  the  region,  and 
especially  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  which  also  has 
the  right  to  a  Euro-Atlantic  perspective  as  a  united 
State  of  three  constitutive  and  equal  peoples. There  is 
no real alternative to the Euro-Atlantic future, and any 
attempt  to  go  back  to  the  old  and  failed  ways  of  the 
past  would  be  extremely  harmful.  This  is  the  only 
sphere of peace and security ensuring prosperity in the 
Euro-Atlantic  zone  whose  doors  will  be  open  to  the 
countries  of  South-East  Europe 
the 
the  General  Assembly 
that  meet 
through 
them. 
that 
I  especially  welcome 
conditions for membership of NATO and the European 
Union. 

With  this  in  mind,  the  Republic  of  Croatia 
advocates the accepted concept of responsibility for the 
protection  of  civilians  against  genocide,  ethnic 
cleansing, war crimes and crimes against humanity. We 
welcome, support and follow with special attention the 
work  of  the  International  Criminal  Court.  In  the  same 
vein,  allow  me  to  point  out  here  that  the  Republic  of 
Croatia supports the work of the International Criminal 
Tribunal  for  the  Former Yugoslavia  and  welcomes  the 
Tribunal’s exit strategy. 

Finally,  this  is  an  opportunity  for  me  to  say  that 
the  Republic  of  Croatia,  in  line  with  its  focus  to  date 
on  human  rights,  will  continue  its  activities  to  protect 
and  promote 
the 
establishment  of  UN Women  as  an  important  and 
welcome  new  body  within  the  Organization,  aimed  at 
supporting  gender  equality  and  strengthening 
the 
position of women. 
In  closing,  allow  me  to  end  this  address  by 

asserting 
lasting  and  civilized  governance, 
especially  insofar  as  it  includes  the  United  Nations, 
must  arise  from  the  individual  and  return  to  the 
individual. The protection of the dignity of human life, 
and the dignity and identity of each nation, is the firm 
foundation  on  which  the  United  Nations  can  fulfil  its 
task 
today’s 
globalized world. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of 

the  General  Assembly,  I  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of 
the  Republic  of  Croatia  for  the  statement  she  has  just 
made. 

Ms.  Jadranka  Kosor,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic  of  Croatia,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Zalmai  Rassoul,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. 
join  previous 

speakers in congratulating you, Sir, on your election as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth 
session. 
that,  under  your  able 
stewardship, our deliberations will be fruitful. 

Sixty-five  years  ago,  the  creation  of  the  United 
Nations  heralded  hope  for  global  peace,  security  and 
to  promote  peace  and  security 
Mr.  Rassoul  (Afghanistan):  I 
I  am  confident 
in 
26 

10-55128 
the  most  effective  universal  body 


respect  for  human  dignity.  Today,  the  United  Nations 
remains 
for 
preserving  the  principles  upon  which  it  was  founded. 
As one of its earliest Member States, Afghanistan fully 
and  consistently  subscribes  to  the  centrality  of  the 
United Nations and to the principles of multilateralism 
that  guarantee  a  democratic  international  order  in 
which  we  all  have  an  equal  voice  and  participation  in 
decisions impacting our world. 

Today more than ever before, our world demands 
a  commitment  to  working  together  so  that  we  may 
overcome  the  multifaceted  challenges  and  threats  to 
our  survival  and  well-being.  The  United  Nations  is 
pivotal to our ability to translate our common sense of 
purpose  and  determined  political  will 
to  replace 
desperation  with  hope,  poverty  with  prosperity, 
injustice with justice and violence with peace. 

Last week, the High-level Plenary Meeting on the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  adopted  an 
outcome  document  and  plan  of  action  for  the  full 
realization  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(resolution  65/1).  Fifteen  years  ago  when  the  MDGs 
were  adopted,  we  recognized  that  comprehensive  and 
collective  effort  was  essential  to  the  attainment  of  the 
Goals. Last week’s summit again underscored the need 
for 
and 
coordination  in  order  to  achieve  human  development 
and well-being. 

Afghanistan  remains  fully  committed  to  meeting 
its MDG targets. We have made some progress, but the 
scourge  of 
insecurity  and 
threats  to  the  rule  of  law  and  governance  remain 
enormous challenges to promoting human development 
in Afghanistan. 
On  the  eve  of  the  ninth  anniversary  of  the 

declaration of the global war on terror in October 2001, 
the international community’s promise to the people of 
Afghanistan  of  a  life  free  from  the  fear  of  the  threat 
and  exploitation  of  international  terrorism  remains 
unfulfilled.  Afghans  continue  to  suffer  from  horrific 
acts of terrorist violence on a daily basis. 

On many occasions from this rostrum, the Afghan 
delegation has drawn the global community’s attention 
to  the  reality  that  terrorism  and  the  ideologies  of 
extremism  and  radicalism  are  spawned  beyond  the 
borders of Afghanistan. In spite of the combined efforts 
of  our  military  allies,  terrorists  continue  to  infiltrate 
our  borders  with  the  intent  of  inflicting  harm  on  our 
international 
international 
cooperation 
terrorism, 
enhanced 
A/65/PV.20
they  must 
in  a  strategy 
look  beyond  villages 
people  and  the  brave  soldiers  of  partner  countries. As 
long  as  certain  State  and  non-State  actors  provide  
Al-Qaida  and  affiliated  individuals  and  entities  with 
sanctuary,  arms  and  financing, 
they  will  remain 
formidable and murderous adversaries. 

Terrorism  in  our  region  is  a  growing  threat  to 
world peace and security. The audacity and geographic 
scope  of  extremist  and  terrorist  groups  harboured  in 
our  region  continue  to  expand.  If  our  international 
partners  and  allies  wish  to  win  the  global  war  on 
terrorism, 
in 
Afghanistan  and  engage 
that  will 
effectively  and  decisively  dismantle  organizations  and 
networks  that  continue  to  support  terrorist  and  radical 
militants  with  impunity.  Terrorism  remains  a  global 
challenge that can be defeated only through a concerted 
international effort. 
In  this  context,  Afghanistan  is  committed  to 

expanding  counter-terrorism  cooperation  with 
the 
Government of Pakistan and with other countries in our 
region. 

The people of Afghanistan have known too much 
violence and too much despair. We have seen too many 
of our young people lose their lives as a result of war 
and conflict. The Afghan people  crave peace, stability 
and  security.  Although  our  fight  against  those  who 
menace  the  lives  and  well-being  of  our  people  will 
continue unabated, we recognize that the success of our 
efforts  for  development  and  prosperity  will  depend 
largely  on  our  ability  to  achieve  sustainable  peace  in 
our country. 

the  Afghan 
Government  convened  a  National  Consultative  Peace 
Jirga in June of this year. The Jirga fulfilled President 
Karzai’s promise to consult and engage all Afghans in 
Jirga  —  which 
peacebuilding 
assembled 
and 
representatives  of  provincial  councils,  businesses  and 
civil  society,  and  had  over  20  per  cent  female 
participation  —  helped  to  jump-start  a  representative 
peace and reconciliation process that will be pursued in 
conformity  with  our  Constitution  and  human  rights 
commitments. 

The  Consultative  Peace  Jirga  agreed  on  a 
framework  to  encourage  the  rank  and  file  of  the 
Taliban to end violence and to join a reconciliation and 
reintegration  process.  It  defined  the  conditions  for  a 
peace  dialogue  with  Taliban  leaders  and  endorsed  the 
leaders,  parliamentarians, 
initiatives.  The 
this  objective 
With 
in  mind, 
tribal 
10-55128 

27 

to 
to 
the 
Over 
remain 
critical 
realized 
commitment 
and  obstacles 
A/65/PV.20 

establishment  of  a  peace  commission  to  oversee  the 
reintegration  of  armed  opposition 
fighters  who 
renounce  violence,  resume  civilian  life,  accept  our 
Constitution and embrace our democracy. 
the  past  eight  years,  we  and  our 

international  partners  have 
substantial 
achievements,  but  also  have  made  mistakes.  Many 
challenges 
ensuring 
sustainable  security  for  the  people  of Afghanistan  and 
to meeting their aspirations to a better life and future. 
At the London and Kabul Conferences held earlier this 
year,  the  international  community  not  only  reaffirmed 
its 
safeguarding  Afghanistan’s 
sovereignty,  territorial  integrity  and  stability,  but  also 
recognized 
importance  of  Afghan 
ownership  and  leadership  to  consolidating  our  joint 
achievements  and  engaging  the  greater  confidence  of 
the Afghan people. 

By building on the mutual commitments made at 
the  milestone  Conferences  in  London  and  Kabul  to 
transfer  security  and  development  responsibilities  to 
the Afghans,  and  by  pursing  comprehensive  economic 
development,  security,  governance  and  our  inclusive 
reconciliation strategies, we are convinced that we will 
successfully  combat  the  efforts  of  extremists  and 
terrorists seeking to regain hold of Afghanistan. 

For  our  part,  the  Government  of  Afghanistan  is 
steadfast  in  its  commitment  to  pursuing  the  reform 
agenda  that  President  Karzai  outlined  in  his  inaugural 
speech.  We  are  committed  to  reinforcing  our  social 
compact  with 
the  people  of  Afghanistan  by 
strengthening  our 
judiciary,  combating  corruption, 
revitalizing  our  economy  and  promoting  good 
governance  at  all  levels  of  the  Government.  As 
demonstrated  by 
the  recently  held  parliamentary 
elections, 
the  people  of 
Afghanistan are steadfast in advancing our democracy. 

the  support  and  collaboration  of  our 
international  partners  and  allies,  we  are  committed  to 
enhancing  the  capacity  and  ability  of  the  Afghan 
Security Forces to assume greater responsibility for the 
protection and security of our country. In this context, I 
wish  to  acknowledge  the  enhanced  effort  of  our 
military allies to protect our civilian populations from 
the  detrimental  effects  of  military  operations  against 
the terrorists and militants. 
The people of Afghanistan embrace the challenge 

of  building  a  better  future.  However,  the  insidious 
the  Government  and 
With 
fight  against 
dangers  of  extremism  and  terrorism  and  their  ever-
increasing link to narcotics pose a serious threat to the 
security  and  stability  of  our  country  and  our  region. 
Alongside  our 
terrorism,  we  are 
committed to working closely with our neighbours and 
other international partners to win the war on narcotics. 

To  complement  our  efforts  to  eliminate  poppy 
production,  we  wish  to  see  greater  action  to  counter 
smuggling of precursors into our country and to reduce 
the  demand  for  and  consumption  of  drugs  in  other 
countries. 

Recent  climate-induced  disasters  experienced  in 
our region, such as the catastrophic floods in Pakistan, 
not  only  pose  severe  challenges  for  local  populations 
and  national  Governments,  but  may  also  have 
ramifications  for  the  economies  of  countries  in  the 
region  and  for  global  security.  We  see  increased 
urgency for effective regional collaboration on disaster 
mitigation and response. 

At various international, regional and subregional 
gatherings,  we  have  emphasized  the  importance  of  a 
stable,  democratic  and  moderate  Afghanistan  to  the 
economic  development  of  our  region  and  global 
security.  By  virtue  of  its  location  at  the  crossroads  of 
four  geostrategically  important  regions  —  Central 
Asia,  South  Asia,  China  and  the  Middle  East  — 
Afghanistan could play an important role in facilitating 
increased 
the 
enormous  potential  of  our  region.  We  will  work 
towards further gains in trade and transit with countries 
in the region. 

the  Afghanistan-
Pakistan- Transit Trade Agreement  and  the  signing  by 
the  heads  of  State  of  Turkmenistan,  Afghanistan, 
Pakistan  and  India  of  an  agreement  on  a  gas  pipeline 
project 
regional 
cooperation.  In  addition,  we  have  concluded  the 
feasibility  study  for  a  Central Asia-South Asia  project 
for  the  transfer  of  electricity  from  Kyrgyzstan  and 
Tajikistan 
to  Afghanistan  and  Pakistan.  These 
initiatives will contribute greatly to peace, security and 
stability in our region. Afghanistan stands ready to step 
up  cooperation  with  all  its  neighbours  on  economic, 
political and crime-related issues. 

I  have  spoken  of  the  desire  of  the  people  of 
Afghanistan for peace and stability and of our right to 
them. We are, however, acutely aware that for over half 
a  century  our  brothers  and  sisters  in  Palestine  have 
transit  and  unleashing 
recent  conclusion  of 
are  milestones 
trade  and 
increased 
The 
for 
28 

10-55128 
to 
the 
revitalize 


been denied their right to an independent State living in 
peaceful  coexistence  with  its  neighbours.  We  are 
encouraged  by  the  resumption  of  direct  talks  between 
the  Israeli  and  Palestinian  leadership,  which  give  us 
hope that sustainable peace in the Middle East may be 
secured. 

To  conclude,  I  thank  the  States  members  of  this 
Assembly for their solidarity and their support for the 
liberty  and  well-being  of  the  people  of  Afghanistan. 
The Afghan people will never forget the generosity and 
great  sacrifices  of  the  United  States,  NATO  and  other 
international  partners,  whose  men  and  women  have 
bravely  stood  with  us  to  defend  our  common  security 
and ensure peace and stability for Afghanistan. 

I  thank  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his 
efforts 
sense  of  partnership, 
cooperation  and  confidence  between  Afghanistan  and 
the international community. I also thank the dedicated 
and  committed  staff  of  the  United  Nations  and  its 
specialized  agencies  for  helping  the  Afghan  people 
build a peaceful, secure and prosperous future. 
The  President (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 

His Excellency Mr. Samuel Santos López, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Nicaragua. 
in 

Spanish): In the name of the Nicaraguan people and of 
Comrade  President  Commander  Daniel  Ortega 
Saavedra, I convey my warmest brotherly greetings to 
you, Sir, and to each and every one of the peoples and 
Governments represented in the General Assembly. 

As the shadows of apocalyptic threats darken the 
world stage, we begin to doubt the capacity for reason 
and the strength of the most noble sentiments of human 
beings  to  face  up  to  the  serious  problems  confronting 
humanity.  Various 
are 
manipulated  by  the  global  communications  media  in 
order to  continually discredit the independence  efforts 
of the Governments of the South. They disseminate the 
idea  that  humanity  is  impotent  in  the  face  of  the 
present  state  of  disaster  and  that  we  must  prepare  for 
the worst. Furthermore, what is worse is that they tell 
us  that  no  one  is  responsible  and  that  it  is  a  faceless 
disaster,  seeking  thus  to  exonerate  the  industrialized 
countries of the North. 

However,  we  know  full  well  that  the  underlying 
cause  of  the  serious  crises  we  are  experiencing  is  the 
nature  of  the  system  of  economic,  political  and  social 
Mr.  Santos  López
(Nicaragua) 
information 
(spoke 
types 
of 
A/65/PV.20
relations established by global capitalism and the effort 
to have that system accepted as a universal paradigm. 

In  this  regard,  the  poor  countries,  which  are 
referred  to  by  the  euphemism  “developing  countries”, 
can  strip  away  the  masks  of  those  who  —  driven  by 
greed, selfishness and the desire for absolute power in 
the  name  of  manifest  destiny  or  of  divine  reason  — 
have brought humankind to the brink of extinction. 

Nicaragua,  which  has  experienced  the  pain  and 
injustice  of  war  first-hand,  is  against  war.  We  do  not 
accept  the  failure  of  reason. We  do  not  accept  war  as 
the  obligatory  language  among  peoples.  Nicaragua 
rejects  war  as  a  solution  to  conflicts  between  States. 
We reject war as a means for appropriating the planet’s 
natural  resources  or  for  imposing  the  hegemony  of  a 
few over the majority of the world’s nations. War will 
never  lead  to  solutions  partial  or  full,  much  less 
definitive. The invasion of Iraq by foreign troops under 
false pretexts has brought neither peace nor stability to 
that country. On the contrary, it has left that country in 
ruins and failed to bring greater stability to the region. 

The  war  in Afghanistan  has  become  a  dead  end 
for  the  occupiers.  At  the  same  time,  it  has  also  had 
negative  effects  on  its  neighbours.  Security  Council 
resolution  1929  (2010),  which  imposes  new  sanctions 
on  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  has  only  served  to 
increase 
large-scale  military 
conflict  with  unforeseeable  consequences.  The  war 
games  on  the  Korean  peninsula  increase  tensions  in 
that  region,  jeopardizing  the  gains  achieved  between 
the  two  Koreas.  Neither  Europe  nor  the  Persian  Gulf 
has  escaped  the  expanding  zone  of  militarization. 
Similarly,  the  establishment  of  military  bases  and  the 
deployment of naval and air power on Latin American 
soil threaten the political stability of our nations. 

“Among  individuals,  as  among  nations,  respect 
for the rights of others is peace”. This saying of Benito 
Juárez,  President  of  Mexico  and  the  first  indigenous 
president 
the 
conception of and will for peace among the peoples of 
the  world.  This 
should  guide  our 
Organization,  and  in  particular  the  Security  Council, 
ensuring  that  their  actions  adhere  strictly  to  the 
purposes and principles of the United Nations. 

Moreover, Nicaragua believes that there is a close 
relation  between  disarmament  and  development.  Our 
commitment  to  security  includes  a  commitment  to  the 
promotion  of  human  rights,  which  we  interpret  as 
the  Americas,  clearly 
the  possibility  of  a 
apothegm 
reflects 
in 
10-55128 

29 

indispensable 
the  attainment  of 
A/65/PV.20 

tantamount  to  sustainable  development  centred  on  the 
human  being  and  implemented  in  an  environment  of 
good  governance  with  direct  citizen  participation  and 
social  equality,  which  are 
to  real 
development. 

From our point of view, the resources freed up as 
a  result  of  disarmament  efforts  should  be  directed  to 
ensuring 
the  national  social 
development  goals  of  each  of  our  countries.  One  only 
has  to  take  a  brief  glance  at  the  trillions  of  dollars 
spent  on  war  to  realize  how  many  human  problems 
could  be  solved  with  these  funds,  alleviating  the  pain 
caused by poverty and exclusion. The global economic 
and financial crisis has had little or no effect on global 
military spending. 

Nicaragua  remains  actively  committed  to  the 
cause of general and complete disarmament. Nicaragua 
believes  that  only  a  climate  of  fundamental  trust  and 
solidarity  can  guarantee  strict  compliance  with  arms 
control  and  disarmament  accords  with  a  view  to 
attaining  complete  disarmament  —  and  especially 
nuclear  disarmament  —  as 
the  only  option  for 
achieving  real  and  lasting  world  peace.  Nicaragua 
supports  the  inalienable  right  of  the  parties  to  the 
Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons to 
use  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes  and  without 
discrimination.  Nicaragua  encourages  actions 
to 
promote the exchange of material resources, equipment 
and technology for the peaceful use of  nuclear  energy 
in  order 
the  sustainable  economic 
development of every nation and the world. 

this  belief,  Nicaragua 
demands that neither Iran nor any other nation be taken 
to task for developing nuclear programmes for peaceful 
purposes. It is possible to build trust based on dialogue 
and  negotiation.  In  this  context,  Nicaragua  joins  the 
general support expressed for the tripartite declaration 
of  Brazil,  Turkey  and  Iran,  which  constitutes  an 
alternative for promoting regional and world peace. 

That  which  was  a  warning  yesterday  is  today  a 
reality. The present international context is leading to a 
global  political  crisis.  The  entire  political  model 
constructed  and  articulated  around  the  paradigm  of 
neo-liberalism,  globalization  and  the  free  market  is  in 
question.  At  the  global  level,  we  need  more  decisive 
action  to  affirm  multilateralism  as  the  new  paradigm. 
Such  multilateralism  must  listen  to  the  voices  of 
peoples 
and 
Precisely  because  of 
to  guarantee 
extreme 
poverty 
living 
in 
of 
and 
States, 
Community 
intervention, 
underdevelopment.  It  must  take  the  new  political 
realities  into  account  and  effectively  democratize  the 
world  order,  beginning  with 
this  Organization, 
including the Security Council and the United Nations 
as  a  whole;  re-establish  the  representational  and 
democratic  rights  of  its  192  Member  States;  and 
identify the rights and obligations that are common to 
all  States  without  undermining 
their  sovereignty, 
independence  and  self-determination,  regardless  of 
their size. 

In Latin America and the Caribbean, this trend is 
manifest in the process of integration and unity taking 
place  among  our  peoples.  We  have  already  made  the 
historic  decision  to  create  the  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean 
whose 
institutionalization  will  begin  next  year  and  conclude 
in 2012. This is further and unquestionable proof of the 
profound changes taking place in the world. 

The  Bolivarian  Alliance  for  the  Peoples  of  Our 
America  has  become  the  vanguard  of  this  process  of 
change. The  struggle  against  intervention  of  all  kinds, 
including  military 
the 
maintenance  and  re-establishment  of  peace  is  an 
essential  component  of  the  Alliance’s  action  in  its 
relations with the world, and strengthens its capacity to 
guarantee the national sovereignty of its peoples. 

Nicaragua  joins  the  brotherly  people  of  Puerto 
Rico in waving the flag of its independence which has 
been  unjustly 
trampled.  The  criminal  economic 
blockade  by  the  Government  of  the  United  States  of 
America against the brotherly people and Government 
of  heroic  Cuba  must  stop  immediately,  and  the  five 
Cuban 
combatants 
imprisoned  in  United  States  jails,  must  be  released 
now. 

We  express  our  solidarity  with  the  brotherly 
people  of  Argentina  in  their  demand  for  sovereignty 
over  the  Malvinas  Islands  and  with  the  brotherly 
people  of  the  Democratic  Arab  Saharan  Republic  in 
their quest to be recognized as an independent State. 

The war and State terrorism against the people of 
Palestine must immediately cease. All Security Council 
and  General  Assembly  resolutions  concerning  Israel 
must be respected and complied with. We must tie the 
hands  of  those  who  fan  the  flames  of  hatred  and  war 
and are capable of attacking a humanitarian flotilla — 
an  act  that  has  been  denounced  by  the  Human  Rights 
Council commission of inquiry. 
counter-terrorism 
heroes, 
for 
30 

10-55128 
the 
We  salute 
invitation  extended  by 



the 
international community to Taiwan to participate in the 
work  of  some  United  Nations  specialized  agencies 
directly  related  to  the  well-being  of  the  23  million 
Taiwanese.  In  this  regard,  we  call  on  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
and  the  International  Civil  Aviation  Organization  to 
adopt a similar position. 

Never  before  have  we  had  so  much  information 
or,  I  hope,  been  so  conscious  of  the  severity  of  the 
environmental  crisis  affecting  our  planet.  Our 
awareness  of  the  gravity  of  the  situation  makes  it 
indispensable that we forge a coalition of forces based 
on  the  common  values  and  inspiring  principles  that 
serve  as 
the  ethical  foundation  and  catalyst  for 
practices  to  promote  a  sustainable  way  of  life.  The 
Earth, with its minerals and sources of energy; with its 
land, water, forests and marine life; with its ecosystems 
and  micro-organisms,  must  be  recognized  as  our 
supreme  and  universal  benefactor  and  an  integral  part 
of humankind, and not only as a source of survival. 

Global  capitalism,  with  its  logic  of  competition 
and  unlimited  growth  and  its  unsustainable  modes  of 
production  and  consumption,  separates  human  beings 
from nature and establishes a relationship of dominion 
over  it. This  situation  must  change  and  be  restored  to 
the right track before it is too late for us all. 

The  meeting  in  Copenhagen  demonstrated  the 
power  of  the  interests  that  block  decisive  action  on 
climate  change  and  the  rights  of  Mother  Earth.  It  left 
us with the unpleasant feeling that we had wasted our 
time  and  that  those  who  impede  the  urgent  solutions 
needed to address the critical state of Mother Earth are 
uncommitted  to  change. With  our  eyes  fixed  on  hope, 
we continue to promote our commitments based on the 
fundamental  principle  of  common  but  differentiated 
responsibilities.  These  should  be  proportional  to  the 
greenhouse gas emissions accumulated since the onset 
of  the  Industrial  Revolution  and  not  since  last  year. 
Those who have historically caused the damage should 
assume most of the responsibility.  

In  that  hope,  Nicaragua  was  the  first  country  of 
the  world  to  have  signed  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
the  Rights  of  Mother  Earth,  and  calls  on  all  the 
countries  of  the  world  to  sign  it.  It  was  also  in  that 
hope  that  Nicaragua  signed  the  People’s  Agreement 
adopted  in  Cochabamba  in  April  during  the  World 
People’s Conference on Climate Change and the Rights 
A/65/PV.20
reaffirm 
to  determine  our  own  paths 
of Mother Earth. It is in that hope that Nicaragua trusts 
that,  when  we  arrive  in  Cancún,  we  will  be  united  in 
seeking  agreements  that  will  at  least  partially  reverse 
the  harm,  and  in  taking  a  path  that  re-establishes  the 
lost or gravely endangered balance between humankind 
and Mother Earth. 

Although  it  is  proclaimed  without  much  support 
that  the  worst  of  the  global  economic  and  financial 
crisis is behind us, its most serious effects remain and 
continue  to  greatly  affect  our  peoples.  We  should  not 
continue to accept the imposition of economic models 
based on the pillage and exploitation of our riches. 

For  all  of  those  reasons,  Nicaragua  and  most  of 
the Latin American nations are dedicated to building an 
alternative model of economic sovereignty, a sphere of 
interdependence  and  solidarity  that  will  enable  us  to 
face global capitalism’s profound crisis and to recover 
our  capacity 
to 
development.  We 
the  development 
strategies of each country are their own responsibility, 
that 
they  should  have  national  ownership  and 
leadership,  and  that  foreign  cooperation  should  be  in 
line  with  the  strategies,  plans  and  objectives  of  the 
country that receives it. 

In  connection  with  the  urgent  need  to  create  a 
new model, we reiterate our support for the outcome of 
the  Conference  on  the World  Financial  and  Economic 
Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on  Development  of  June  2009 
(resolution 63/303, annex). There can be no economic 
recovery  or  balance  in  the  inequality  with  the  present 
model,  which  concentrates  the  income  and  wealth 
among and within nations. 

All  of  this  should  take  place  in  a  framework  of 
mutual respect, devoid of punitive political  conditions 
against  our  peoples  that  would  block  and  stifle  the 
development of the countries of the South. 

Besides the hundreds of millions of people in the 
world  who  suffer  from  hunger,  we  have  before  us  the 
terrifying 
in  developing  countries,  
10.9  million  children  under  the  age  of  five  die  every 
year.  Malnutrition  and  hunger-related  diseases  cause  
60 per cent of those deaths. The cost of malnutrition to 
national  economic  development 
is  estimated  at 
between $20 and $30 billion per year. That intolerable 
situation  must  stop.  The  developed  countries  must 
fulfil  their  commitments  to  eliminate  the  suffering  of 
millions of human beings. 
reality 
that 
that 
10-55128 

31 

sovereignty, 
the 
different 
forms 
reiterates 
the  peoples’ 
interests  and 
to  perpetuate 
A/65/PV.20 


Nicaragua reaffirms its decision to confront, with 
the  means  available  to  it  and  in  the  context  of  its 
national 
of 
transnational  organized  crime,  which  have  become  a 
permanent threat to domestic and international security. 
Similarly,  Nicaragua 
its  position  of 
combating terrorism in all its forms and whatever their 
source. 

There  are  several  processes  that  are  hampering 
necessary  and  urgent  changes.  The  most  prominent  is 
the suppression of information — not saying anything 
in  order 
ignorance.  And  when 
information  is  made  available,  it  is  distorted  and 
always  against 
their 
legitimate aspirations and experiences, thus converting 
lies into truths and vice versa, converting a smile into a 
sneer,  words  into  noise  and  an  objective  fact  into 
virtual reality. 

The  universal  citizen  is  witness,  through  global 
communication,  to  a  real  war  for  truth  and  freedom, 
forced  to  confront  a  permanent,  slanderous  campaign 
against  change,  against  hope  and  against  the  proper 
evolution  of  history. That  campaign  has  far-reaching 
implications and has the goal of destroying the process 
of  direct  popular  democracy  and  of  the  profound  and 
revolutionary  social  transformations  that  are  taking 
place  in  our  countries  as  a  result  of  the  triumph  of 
revolutionary  political  forces,  as 
in 
Nicaragua  with 
the  Sandinista  Front.  We  must 
denounce  the  campaign  waged  by  hegemonic  and 
selfish  interests  in  a  few  countries  in  an  attempt  to 
undermine  the  legitimacy  of  our  political  system  and 
our people’s Government. 
Nicaragua proclaims its right to live in peace and 

to  combat 
illiteracy,  hunger  and 
malnutrition  generated  by  historic  exclusion  and  the 
imposition  of  an  economic  and  political  model  that  is 
alien  to  our  reality.  Nicaragua  declares  its  dignity, 
sovereignty,  self-determination,  respect,  unity  and 
solidarity  with  all  the  peoples  of 
the  Earth,  as 
guaranteed by the United Nations Charter. Nicaragua is 
working  to  develop  a  social  awareness  of  solidarity 
identified  with 
justice, 
freedom and democracy for all, without exception. 

From  this  forum,  Nicaragua  makes  a  vehement 
call  for  world  peace,  for  the  survival  of  the  human 
species,  for 
the  noblest 
the  dignified  future  of 
ideals  of  humankind, 
the  poverty, 
is 
the  case 
the 
takes 
My  delegation 
aspirations  of  men  and  women.  That  is  the  only 
possible future. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 

His Excellency Mr. Peter Shanel Agovaka, Minister for 
Foreign  Affairs  and  External  Trade  of  the  Solomon 
Islands. 
Mr. Agovaka  (Solomon  Islands):  It  is  indeed  an 

honour for me to congratulate you, Sir, on behalf of the 
Government  and  people  of  Solomon  Islands,  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  our  sixty-fifth 
session.  Your  term  in  office  coincides  with  economic 
turmoil, the impacts of climate change, growing social 
and security concerns and threats of unilateralism that 
are  challenging  multilateralism  from  all  fronts.  My 
delegation  is  pleased  with  the  manner  in  which  you 
have  convened  and  concluded 
three  high-level 
meetings,  on 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs), biodiversity and the Mauritius Strategy. That 
is a clear indication of why we are confident in you and 
of  your  vast  experience  as  you  oversee  this  principal 
body of the United Nations for the next 12 months. 

to 
this  opportunity 
acknowledge  as  well  the  leadership  and  contributions 
of  your  predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ali 
Abdussalam Treki. His support for multilateralism has 
placed us on firm footing in preparing for this session. 

We  see  around  us  the  growth  of  democracy, 
corporate power and the emergence of new powers, all 
offering  new  perspectives  and  opportunities.  New 
international  cooperation 
linking  development, 
finance, raw  materials  and markets. That development 
calls for increased collaboration and a new framework 
to  facilitate  the  emergence  of  a  new  economic  order. 
Solomon  Islands,  under  its  new  foreign  policy,  will 
establish  relationships  with  all  six  regions  of  the 
United Nations. 

Solomon  Islands  believes  in  multilateralism  and 
acknowledges  the  importance  and  value  of  having  a 
closer  working 
the  United 
Nations  and  Member  States.  My  Government  stands 
ready and committed to work with the United Nations 
in  enhancing  its  presence  in  my  capital.  In  that 
connection,  we  renew  our  call  to  upgrade  the  United 
Nations  Sub-office  in  Honiara  and  appoint  a  resident 
representative as its head. 

My  delegation  acknowledges  United  Nations 
outreach to Solomon Islands this year by convening the 
relationship  between 
is 
32 

10-55128 
to  note 


United Nations national  competitive recruitment exam 
in  December.  We  welcome  that  engagement,  as  it 
provides  an  opportunity  for  successful  citizens  to  fill 
our  national  quota  of  international  civil  servants 
serving our family of nations. 

Democracy  is  one  of  the  core  principles  of  the 
United  Nations  Charter.  People  continue  to  be  the 
source  of  the  legitimacy  of  this  Organization  and 
remain the basis of authority of this Assembly. 

Solomon  Islands  registers  its  appreciation  of  the 
Secretariat’s  Department  of  Political  Affairs  and  the 
United Nations Development Programme for their role 
in  coordinating  some  400  local  and  international 
observers who monitored last month’s general election. 
We  are  equally  pleased 
the  positive 
pronouncement  by  the  various  local  and  international 
monitors  that  Solomon  Islands’  national  election  was 
conducted  in  a  free  and  fair  manner.  A  number  of 
electoral reform recommendations were made, and my 
Government will act on them with a view to improving 
our national electoral system. 

The  essence  of  progress  and  prosperity  lies  in 
having  a  clear  and  firm  leadership,  an  obedient 
bureaucracy and a sense of vision. My Government is 
committed  to  providing  those,  and  we  will  work 
tirelessly to offer our people a life of normality, dignity 
and freedom. 

The  challenge  of  nation-building  is  huge  and 
costly  for  any  developing  country.  For  that  reason, 
each country has to define for itself the type and form 
of democracy it wants to adopt, for democracy cannot 
be  imposed.  In  that  connection,  Solomon  Islands 
continues 
and 
engagement with Fiji over confrontations and sanctions 
and to support Fiji’s effort to determine its destiny. 

international 
community in calling for the lifting of the 49-year-old 
economic  embargo  against  Cuba.  Such  an  embargo 
belongs to a different time and era. It is our hope that 
the power of reaching out to our neighbours will break 
down artificial ideological barriers. 

Solomon Islands will be undergoing the universal 
periodic  review  during  this  session.  My  delegation 
takes  this  opportunity  to  reaffirm  the  commitment  of 
Solomon  Islands  to  the  principles  and  purposes  of  the 
United  Nations  Charter,  including  respect  for  human 
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  for  all.  Solomon 
Solomon 
advocate 
dialogue 
genuine 
Islands 
joins 
the 
to 
A/65/PV.20
to  divide 
in  enhancing 
the  quality  of 
Islands  finds  it  regrettable  to  see  those  principles 
sacrificed  by  some  who  continue 
this 
Assembly.  Solomon  Islands  recognizes  the  Geneva-
based  Human  Rights  Council  and 
its  role  and 
impartiality  as  the  appropriate  institution  to  deal  with 
issues of human rights. 

This  year  marks  the  seventh  anniversary  of  my 
country’s  relationship  with  the  Regional  Assistance 
Mission  to  Solomon  Islands  (RAMSI).  The  current 
partnership framework promotes greater coherence and 
predictability 
the 
cooperation  to  meet  the  country’s  development  needs. 
The  relations  between  Solomon  Islands  and  RAMSI 
have brought political and financial stability. However, 
the  underlying  causes  of  conflict  remain  unaddressed. 
Issues of tolerance and respect for our diverse cultures 
have  placed  much  stress  on  our  road  to  peace.  My 
Government  remains  committed  to  addressing  those 
issues. 

In  June  this  year,  the  Foreign  Minister  of  the 
United Arab  Emirates,  His  Highness  Sheikh Abdullah 
Bin  Zayed Al  Nahyan,  brought  together  Pacific  small 
island developing States and our Middle East brothers 
to  discuss  cooperation,  including  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative in the Middle East. Solomon Islands supports 
all  peace  initiatives,  including  proposals  to  normalize 
relations between the entire Arab region and Israel. The 
complexity of the Middle East conflict needs a regional 
solution,  and  we  strongly  feel  that  parties  to  the 
conflict  will  need  to  sow  conditions  for  peace  as  we 
work to have a two-State solution. We are heartened to 
see  negotiations  proceeding.  However,  we  would  like 
to see all stakeholders involved in the process. 
My  delegation  welcomes  the  outcome  of  this 

summer’s 
Review 
Conference.  The  existence  of  nuclear  weapons 
continues  to  pose  a  significant  threat  to  humanity. 
History  has  shown  the  deep  horror  and  devastation  of 
nuclear  weapons.  Solomon  Islands  supports  the  total 
elimination of all nuclear weapons as the only absolute 
guarantee for a safe and secure world. 

The  urgency  of  agreeing  to  a  legally  binding 
agreement  on  climate  change  in  Cancún,  Mexico, 
cannot be overemphasized. It is a common concern that 
binds 
is  already 
absorbing  more  heat  and  getting  warmer.  The  global 
temperature  has  risen  by  0.7°C  in  the  past  century. 
Under  current 
the 
together.  Our  planet 
Non-Proliferation 
trends,  science 
the  world 
tells  us 
Treaty 
that 
10-55128 

33 
to 
It 
takes 
levels. 
restrict 
reaching 
irreversible 
island  developing  States 
A/65/PV.20 

temperature  will  further  increase  by  4  to  7°C  by  the 
end  of  this  century,  threatening  the  survival  of  many 
States, including Solomon Islands. It is critical that we 
have  a  clear  plan  for  stabilizing  greenhouse  gas 
emissions.  Solomon  Islands  supports  the  call  of  the 
small 
the 
temperature  rise  to  below  1.5°C  and  to  bring  down 
greenhouse  gas  concentration  to  well  below  350  parts 
per million. 

Noting  that  there  is  limited  atmospheric  carbon 
space left, a carbon-budget approach is an option for a 
just  and  fair  way  to  prevent  the  global  temperature 
from 
into 
consideration 
the  development  needs  and  space 
concerns  of  developing  countries  and  our  shared 
responsibilities  and  rights  in  meeting  the  demands  of 
the health of our atmosphere. 

On  the  issue  of  United  Nations  system-wide 
coherence, the General Assembly in July established a 
new gender entity, UN Women. That body will further 
strengthen United Nations capacity and effectiveness in 
advancing  the  status  of  women  worldwide.  Solomon 
Islands  looks  forward  to  cooperating  with  the  new 
entity. 

reform,  my 
delegation is pleased to see informal intergovernmental 
negotiations  carried 
session. 
Negotiations are now focused on a common text, which 
we  hope  will  be  further  streamlined  in  achieving  our 
goal  of  making  that  principal  United  Nations  organ 
more  representative,  efficient  and  responsive  to  the 
emerging global threats of this century. 

The  Pacific  Ocean  covers  a  third  of  the  world’s 
surface  and  accounts  for  a  quarter  of  the  world’s  tuna 
industry.  In  May  this  year,  eight  Pacific  small  island 
developing  States,  including  Solomon  Islands,  set  up 
the  secretariat  of  the  Parties  to  the  Nauru  Agreement 
(PNA)  in  the  Marshall  Islands.  The  PNA  countries 
agreed to coordinate the management and conservation 
of their tuna resources, so as to guarantee sustainability 
and  greater  economic  benefits  from  their  resources. 
The  closing  off  of  the  high  seas  pockets  within  the 
respective  countries’  exclusive  economic  zones  is  to 
prevent illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing and 
to provide a safe haven for fish to breed. 

On  the  issue  of  the  establishment  of  a  regional 
marine scientific centre, in accordance with the United 
Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  my 
regards  Security  Council 
forward 
As 
into 
this 

to 
joint 
submission 
the  Secretary-General’s 
delegation is pleased to note that the matter is reflected 
report.  The  Pacific 
in 
subregion values such a centre, which my Government 
offers  to  host.  We  will  pursue  this  regionally  and 
internationally, in the spirit of the Convention and the 
Mauritius Strategy Initiative. 

This  year  Papua  New  Guinea,  the  Federated 
States  of  Micronesia  and  Solomon  Islands  made  a 
presentation  on  our 
the 
Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf. We 
hope to do the same with our remaining submissions at 
an appropriate time. 

Solomon  Islands  is  encouraged  by  the  further 
growth  of  positive  developments  and  engagements 
with  regard  to  the  Taiwan  Strait.  That  must  be 
internationally recognized, commended and supported. 
The moderate and pragmatic path adopted by both the 
People’s  Republic  of  China  and  Taiwan  about  the 
Taiwan  Strait  contributes  to  international  peace  and 
security. 

Solomon  Islands  continues  to  support  Taiwan’s 
meaningful  participation  within  the  United  Nations 
system.  My  delegation  is  heartened  to  note  Taiwan’s 
participation  as  an  observer  at  the  World  Health 
Assembly in both 2009 and 2010. That is a gesture of 
the 
relations.  Taiwan  has 
registered  its  interest  in  participating  in  two  United 
Nations  treaty  organizations  this  year:  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
(UNFCCC)  and 
International  Civil  Aviation 
Organization.  My  country  supports  such  participation. 
The two organizations deal with two global issues that 
are  of  common  concern  to  all  the  world.  Climate 
change and aviation issues need the participation of all 
countries  for  aviation  safety  and  the  health  of  our 
atmosphere. My delegation finds it regrettable that the 
UNFCCC secretariat has adopted a narrow position on 
a matter that requires the parties to the Convention and 
to the Kyoto Protocol to decide on. 

The Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) are 
internationally  agreed  development  benchmarks.  The 
Solomon Islands scorecard remains mixed, uneven and 
generally off track in terms of meeting our 2015 Goals. 
The  international  programme  for  the  Solomon  Islands 
for  achieving  the  MDGs  is  defined  in  the  Mauritius 
Strategy  and  the  Brussels  Programme  of Action.  Both 
frameworks  outline 
the  Solomon  Islands’  special 
improved  cross-Strait 
the 
34 

10-55128 
that 
to  ensure 
international 
that  support 
requires  special 


situation,  one 
attention. 

The  review  of  the  Mauritius  Strategy  held  last 
week  revealed  that  international  commitments  to  the 
Barbados  Programme  of  Action  remain  wanting  and 
disappointing.  The  vulnerability  of  small 
island 
developing States (SIDS) has worsened. To address this 
partnership  gap,  Solomon  Islands  calls  for  a  special 
category  for  SIDS  within  the  United  Nations  system. 
There is also a need for a firmer link between the SIDS 
Programme  and  the  United  Nations  Development 
Assistance  Framework, 
is 
received from within our Organization. 
This  session  will  also  see  the  convening  of  the 

Fourth  United  Nations  Conference  on 
the  Least 
Developed  Countries,  in  May  2011.  We  are  equally 
pleased that the General Assembly launched a process 
of national, regional and global reviews during the last 
session.  We  look  forward  to  working  with  all  in 
achieving  a  comprehensive,  action-oriented  and 
meaningful outcome to the Conference. 

Mr.  Francisco  Carrión-Mena  (Ecuador),  Vice-
President, took the Chair. 

My  delegation  wishes  to  acknowledge  our  new 
partners  Luxembourg  and  Portugal,  for  their  support, 
respectively,  for  the  Melanesian  Spearhead  Group  and 
Solomon Islands external students. We remain grateful 
to  all  partners  from  the  South  and  North,  including 
Cuba,  Italy,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Taiwan  and  our 
traditional  partners  the  European  Union,  Australia, 
New Zealand, Japan and my regional neighbours. 

In conclusion, I would like to assure the President 
of the support and cooperation of the Solomon Islands 
during his term in office. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Micheál  Martin, 
T.D.,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of 
Ireland. 
Mr.  Martin  (Ireland):  Let  me  begin  by  warmly 

congratulating  President  Joseph  Deiss  on  his  election 
and extending the best wishes of the Irish Government 
for a successful term in office. 
We  gather  this  year  against  a  backdrop  of  grave 

challenges 
community. 
Foremost among them is the continuing crisis of global 
hunger and poverty. We recognize the obligation upon 
confronting 
global 
the 
A/65/PV.20
of 
universality 
responses.  The 
us to fulfil the commitments made to the world’s most 
vulnerable  people  when  the  Assembly  adopted  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) in 2000. Our 
Governments  have  to  contend  with  the  most  severe 
global  recession  in  many  decades,  but  we  must  limit 
the  impact  of  the  crisis  on  those  in  greatest  need. We 
must  also  maintain  our  commitment  to  halving  the 
proportion  of  people  living  in  extreme  poverty  and 
hunger by 2015. 

Firmer  action  is  also  called  for  in  responding  to 
the  threat  posed  by  climate  change.  If  the  global 
community fails to act now on that issue, we will face 
a steadily escalating threat to our planet and to human 
survival.  In  recent  months,  we  have  also  seen  the 
devastating  consequences  that  natural  catastrophes, 
such as those that have afflicted Pakistan and Haiti, can 
unleash on vulnerable populations. 

As with so many of the challenges and threats to 
our  common  security,  it  is  to  this  great  Organization 
that  we  instinctively  turn  in  searching  for  effective 
collective 
its 
membership  gives 
the  United  Nations  a  unique 
legitimacy  and  authority.  It  brings  the  nations  of  the 
world  together  under  a  common  roof.  It  provides  an 
invaluable  framework  for  common  reflection  and 
decision-making. With the necessary political will, the 
Member  States  can  use  the  authority  and  reach  of  the 
United  Nations  to  fashion  a  more  peaceful,  equitable 
and secure world. 
One  area  requiring  our  close  attention  is  reform 

of 
the  United  Nations 
the 
effectiveness  of  the  Organization,  we  need  to  ensure 
that its structures are fit for their purpose and adjusted 
to  twenty-first-century  realities.  Ireland  has  actively 
championed the reform agenda at the United Nations in 
recent years, and we will continue to do so. 

the 
establishment  of  UN Women.  Ireland  is  committed  to 
supporting  that  important  new  body  within  the  United 
Nations system, as it promotes greater gender equality 
and  works  to  enhance  the  rights  and  well-being  of 
women  worldwide.  Also,  the  benefits  to  be  had  from 
the “delivering as one” programme — greater coherence 
in  United  Nations  development  activities  and  improved 
delivery of services at the country level — are clear and 
tangible.  The  valuable  work  done  in  those  areas 
demonstrates  that  reform  can  be  achieved  when  it  is 
clearly shown to be in our collective interest. 
I  warmly  welcome 
itself.  To 
improve 
regard, 
that 
In 
10-55128 

35 

A/65/PV.20 


We need to do more, however. There is a pressing 
need  for  a  Security  Council  that  is  more  properly 
reflective of twenty-first-century realities and that can 
function  better  and  with  increased  transparency.  The 
constructive  deliberations  on  that  issue  within  the 
informal  plenary  of  the  General  Assembly  should  be 
intensified, with a view to identifying whether there is 
a model for reform that can command broad consensus. 

The  system  for  apportioning  the  expenses  of  the 
Organization  should  better  reflect  the  principle  of 
capacity  to  pay.  Ireland  and  its  European  Union 
partners have highlighted that issue in recent years, and 
we will continue to follow it closely. I look forward to 
positive  results  from  the  review  of  the  existing  scale 
methodology  that  the  General  Assembly  has  been 
mandated to carry out. 

Perhaps the greatest challenge we face as a global 
community  is  to  take  effective  action  to  eliminate 
poverty  and  hunger.  We  set  ourselves  clear  targets  in 
adopting the Millennium Development Goals 10 years 
ago.  Here  in  New  York  we  have  reviewed  progress 
over the past week. We have welcomed the remarkable 
progress that has been generated through our collective 
action in areas such as education, child health and the 
treatment  of  HIV  and  AIDS.  But  the  reality  remains 
that the actual numbers of people living in poverty and 
hunger in our world continue to increase. 

In  recent  times,  economic  crisis  and  uncertainty 
have  devastated  the  lives  of  communities  already 
facing  extreme  poverty  at  the  same  time  that  they 
impose pressure on development budgets worldwide. It 
is  therefore  imperative  that  developed  and  developing 
countries,  in  partnership,  now  examine  rigorously 
which actions have worked in the fight to end poverty 
and  which  can  be  pursued  more  effectively.  We  also 
need to focus more clearly on key sectors. 

Since  the  publication  of  our  Hunger  Task  Force 
report  two  years  ago,  Ireland  has  been  arguing  that  a 
more concerted, comprehensive approach is required to 
end the continuing crisis of world hunger. The number 
of  chronically  hungry  people  has  risen  to  almost  one 
billion. One in four children in the developing world is 
undernourished.  Failure 
is 
undermining  progress  across 
range  of 
development goals. And yet the means are available, at 
an  affordable  cost,  to  end  that  scandal.  We  need  to 
mobilize the political will to do so. 
that  crisis 
full 
to  address 
the 
the  United  Nations 
speaks 

Last  week,  with  the  United  States  Secretary  of 
State,  I  hosted  a  meeting  of  international  leaders  to 
build a partnership focusing on nutrition in the first one 
thousand days of life, from pregnancy to two years of 
age.  We  recognized  and  will  give  our  full  support  to 
the  Scaling  Up  Nutrition  Initiative  of  the  Secretary 
General.  Our  determination  to  maintain  international 
attention to that issue is driven by the conviction that it 
is  possible  in  the  five  years  remaining  to  deliver 
measurable  progress  on  our  commitment  to  halve  the 
proportion  of  people  suffering  from  extreme  poverty 
and hunger by 2015. 

One  of  the  core  tasks  of  this  Organization  is  to 
contribute  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and  security.  War  and  conflict  are  not  merely 
profoundly destabilizing for the regions in which they 
occur;  they  also  threaten  the  collective  security  of 
mankind.  Mobilizing  effective  international  responses 
to armed conflict, as and when it occurs, and providing 
peacekeeping and peacebuilding support in that context 
are  high  on  the  United  Nations  agenda.  In  that  vitally 
important  area, 
record  of 
accomplishment 
itself,  as  explicitly 
acknowledged  through  the  awarding  of  the  Nobel 
Peace Prize in 2001. 

There  is  one  conflict  that,  more  than  most, 
requires  the  sustained  engagement  of  the  international 
community  at  the  present  time. The  direct  talks  under 
way  between  Israeli  and  Palestinian  leaders  present  a 
historic  opportunity  to  make  progress  towards  a  just 
and lasting  peace  in the  Middle East.  I have no doubt 
that  progress  towards  a  comprehensive  settlement 
based on the two-State solution would contribute more 
to  improving  global  security  than  any  other  single 
peacebuilding effort. 

I  want  to  salute  the  leadership  and  commitment 
demonstrated  by  President  Obama,  Secretary  of  State 
Clinton  and  Special  Envoy  Mitchell  in  persuading 
Israel  and  the  Palestinian  Authority  to  resume  direct 
negotiations.  While  there  have  been  many  critical 
junctures in the Middle East peace process in the past, 
there  can  be  no  doubting  the  significance  of  the 
initiative  which  is  under  way  at  present.  It  represents 
what is possibly the final opportunity to achieve a just 
settlement  based  on  two  States  living  side  by  side  in 
peace and security. 

are  also 
President  Abbas  and  Prime  Minister  Netanyahu 
their  personal 
to  be  commended 
for 
for 
36 

10-55128 
and 
measure 


commitment to this process. I encourage both sides to 
stay  the  course  and  not  to  be  deterred  by  those  who 
seek  to  derail  the  process.  In  particular,  I  urge  all 
parties  to  refrain  from  any  actions  which  could 
endanger the  negotiation process. It is vital that every 
effort  be  made  to  keep  the  process  intact.  Our  own 
experience  in  the  Northern  Ireland  peace  process  has 
shown  that  political  progress  can  only  be  achieved 
through  dialogue.  Maximum  restraint  for  the  duration 
of these talks, which are intended to be — and should 
be — completed in 12 months, would be a small price 
for  lasting  peace.  In  this  regard,  I  echo  the  statement 
made  earlier  today  by  the  High  Representative  of  the 
European Union (EU), Catherine Ashton, regretting the 
Israeli  decision  not  to  extend  the  moratorium  on 
settlements.  There  could  be  no  greater 
single 
confidence-building 
practical 
demonstration of commitment to peace than a decision 
to  desist  from  all  settlement  construction  in  the  West 
Bank and East Jerusalem. 

We  must  not  forget  Gaza  at  this  critical  time.  I 
witnessed for myself the appalling humanitarian plight 
of  the  people  of  Gaza  when  I  visited  the  region  last 
February.  Eighty  per  cent  of  them  live  below  the 
poverty line. The deprivation and hardship that they are 
suffering  because  of 
the  blockade  are  painfully 
obvious.  Yet  the  people  of  Gaza  show  a  remarkable 
dignity  and  resilience  in  the  face  of  living  conditions 
which are quite simply unacceptable. 

I  welcome  the  steps  taken  so  far  to  improve  the 
delivery of humanitarian and consumer goods to Gaza. 
However, the reality remains that much more needs to 
be  done  in  terms  of  rebuilding  Gaza  and  allowing 
normal  commercial  activity  to  resume.  In  particular, 
exports must be allowed to resume from Gaza; the vital 
work  of  recovery  and  reconstruction,  which  has  been 
effectively  on  hold  for  almost  two  years,  must  be 
facilitated;  and  key  infrastructural  projects  identified 
by the United Nations must be allowed to proceed. 
the 

I  would  also  urge  greater  support  for 
invaluable  work  performed  by  the  United  Nations 
Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the 
Near East (UNRWA), and its brave and dedicated staff, 
on  behalf  of  the  Palestinian  people.  I  and  others  who 
have visited Gaza in recent months, such as Secretary-
General Ban and European Union High Representative 
Ashton, can testify to the importance of what UNRWA 
is  doing  to  support  the  welfare  of  Gaza’s  inhabitants 
A/65/PV.20
and to provide them with some basis for confidence in 
a better future. 

The lack of progress in resolving the differences 
between the international community and Iran over that 
country’s  nuclear  programme  is  a  source  of  great 
concern.  I  urge  the  Iranian  authorities  to  engage 
constructively  on  this  issue  and  to  comply  with  the 
clear  requirements  set  out 
in  numerous  Security 
Council  and  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA)  resolutions,  most  recently  in  Security  Council 
resolution 1929 (2010). There is a sincere wish on the 
part  of  all  of  us 
to  negotiate  seriously  and 
constructively  with  Iran  on  these  and  other  important 
international issues. I look forward to such a dialogue 
resuming in the near future. 

Any  discussion  with  Iran  would  also  need  to 
include  the  human  rights  situation  there,  about  which 
there continue to be the gravest concerns. Iran must do 
considerably  more  than  it  has  done  up  to  now  to 
respect  and  fulfil  the  international  obligations  it  has 
undertaken  in  the  field  of  human  rights.  Recent  cases 
of human rights abuses are profoundly disturbing, and 
Iran must be held fully accountable for them. 

The global security which we all wish to achieve 
depends  crucially  on  the  eradication  of  the  means  of 
conflict. Efforts to achieve nuclear disarmament and to 
prevent  the  further  proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons 
have been key objectives for the United Nations since 
its  inception.  They  have  also  been  a  major  foreign 
policy  priority  for  successive  Irish  Governments. 
Ireland  was  the  first  country  to  sign  and  ratify  the 
Nuclear  Non-Proliferation  Treaty 
(NPT).  The 
successful  outcome 
last  May’s  NPT  Review 
Conference  has  reinvigorated  the  Treaty  and  is  an 
important  milestone  on  the  road  towards  the  eventual 
elimination  of  all  nuclear  weapons. A  key  priority  for 
Ireland is implementation of the action plan on nuclear 
disarmament agreed there. 

I  am  pleased  that  Ireland  made  an  important 
contribution  at  the  Review  Conference.  In  particular, 
we  were  able  to  facilitate  progress  in  relation  to 
implementation  of  the  1995  resolution  on  a  zone  free 
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  in  the  Middle  East.  I 
hope that the strong spirit of compromise evident at the 
Review Conference will be maintained  and built upon 
in  the  preparations  for  the  2012  conference  on  the 
Middle East resolution. 
to 
10-55128 

37 
implementation  of 
A/65/PV.20 


Ireland  is  also  satisfied  with  the  progress  made 
over  the  past  couple  of  years  on  the  issue  of  cluster 
munitions.  The  Convention  on  Cluster  Munitions, 
which  was  negotiated  in  Dublin  in  May  2008,  has 
entered  into  force  as  of  1 August  this  year.  This 
landmark development brings closer the prospect of the 
elimination  of  all  cluster  munitions  and  of 
the 
unacceptable  harm  to  civilians  they  cause.  We  must 
now  move  ahead  with 
the 
Convention  and  promotion  of  the  widest  possible 
adherence to its provisions. 

Ireland is actively supporting preparations for the 
first  meeting  of  States  Parties  of  the  Convention  in 
Vientiane  in  November.  We  will  continue  to  show 
leadership on this issue and to do all we can to ensure 
the worldwide elimination of these atrocious weapons. 

This  year  marks  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the 
first  deployment  of  Irish  troops  under  the  United 
Nations  flag.  In  1960,  just  five  years  after  we  joined 
this  Organization,  Ireland  decided  to  participate  in  a 
peacekeeping  mission  to  what  was  then  the  newly 
independent  Congo.  This  began 
and 
distinguished  tradition  of  service  in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  operations  in  a  wide  variety  of  conflict 
situations  around  the  globe.  We  will  continue  to 
contribute  personnel  to  such  missions  and  to  play  our 
part  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security. I welcome the constructive discussions which 
have  taken  place  within  the  Special  Committee  on 
Peacekeeping  Operations  on  ways  of  improving  the 
future  conduct  and  management  of  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  missions,  following  on  from  Secretary-
General  Ban’s  recent  paper  on  the  New  Horizon 
Initiative. 

This  year,  Ireland  was  honoured  when  our 
Permanent 
Representative,  Ambassador  Anne 
Anderson, took on the role of co-facilitator, along with 
South  African  and  Mexican  colleagues,  of  a  major 
review 
peacebuilding 
architecture. We were very pleased to be able to make 
our  contribution  to  this  important  and  wide-ranging 
reflection  on 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  five  years  after  its  establishment.  The 
three  co-facilitators  have  submitted  a  report  which 
aims to revitalize the Commission and give it renewed 
focus  and 
to  positive 
consideration by Member  States of this report and the 
recommendations it makes. 
the  United  Nations 
the  work  of 
forward 
impact. 
long 
a 
of 
I 
look 

in 
important 
conducting 

Ireland has also been active in relation to another 
set  of  issues  which  have  a  significant  bearing  on 
conflict resolution and peacebuilding. This year marks 
the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  Security 
Council  resolution  1325  (2000),  which,  for  the  first 
time,  explicitly  acknowledged  the  key  role  of  women 
in conflict resolution and peacebuilding. We have been 
working  hard  to  raise  international  awareness  of  this 
resolution and to encourage greater implementation of 
its provisions by Member States. 

As  part  of  our  focus  on  resolution  1325  (2000), 
we have been pleased to work with Liberia and Timor-
Leste 
lessons-learned 
exercises. A  report  will  be  presented  to  the  Secretary-
General  shortly  on  the  key  findings  made  in  this 
process.  We  are  also  working  to  finalize  our  national 
action  plan  on  women,  peace  and  security  in  the  very 
near future. 

Ireland strongly supports the vital role played by 
the United Nations in upholding and defending human 
rights  around  the  world.  Next  year’s  review  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  provides  an  opportunity  to 
assess  the  Council’s  performance  to  date  and  to 
consider  how  it  might  be  improved  and  strengthened. 
As a candidate for election in 2012, we look forward to 
making our own contribution to the work of enhancing 
the Council’s performance. 
Ireland  is  also  deeply  supportive  of  the  work  of 

the 
the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  and 
International  Tribunals 
justice  and 
combating impunity. I welcome the successful outcome 
to the recent Kampala Review Conference of the Rome 
Statute  of  the  International  Criminal  Court,  including 
in  relation  to  defining  the  crime  of  aggression,  and  I 
urge the fullest cooperation on the part of all Member 
States  with  both 
the  International 
Tribunals. 

The appalling human tragedy of Darfur continues 
to challenge the international community. I applaud the 
courageous efforts of the United Nations personnel and 
all  of  the  others  on  the  ground  in  Darfur  who  are 
working to provide vital humanitarian services. 
We  hope  that  all  sides  in  Sudan  will  continue  to 

engage  in  the  fullest  cooperation  in  support  of  the 
United  Nations/African  Union  mediation  efforts  in 
Darfur  and  also  in  the  preparations  for  the  historic 
referendum  in  southern  Sudan  early  next  year.  Full 
implementation  of  the  2005  Comprehensive  Peace 
the  ICC  and 
in  promoting 
38 

10-55128 


Agreement still remains fundamental to securing peace 
and stability in Sudan as a whole and in the region. 

The continuing unjust detention of Aung San Suu 
Kyi  in  Burma  epitomizes  the  fate  of  prisoners  of 
conscience everywhere who seek to uphold the values 
of democracy and free speech. I call for her immediate 
and unconditional release. I also call for the release of 
all  other  political  prisoners  in  Burma  and  for  the 
launching  of  a  genuine,  inclusive  national  dialogue. 
And I very much endorse Secretary-General Ban’s call 
on  Burma’s  leaders  to  create  the  conditions  in  which 
free and fair elections can take place. 

In  a  world  where  we  continue  to  face  enormous 
peacebuilding  challenges,  the  Northern  Ireland  peace 
process  is  an  example  of  what  can  be  achieved  with 
patience, imagination and strong international support. 
This  year  saw  a  hugely  significant  step  forward  in 
Northern  Ireland  with  the  devolution  of  policing  and 
justice powers to a locally elected Minister accountable 
to the Northern Ireland Assembly. That is a major step 
towards  fulfilling  the  vision  of  the  Good  Friday 
Agreement, which was signed 12 years ago. 
That  Agreement  provides  a  genuine  possibility 

for political inclusion for all who reject violence. It is 
the  framework  within  which  the  Irish  Government, 
working  in  partnership  and  full  cooperation  with  the 
British  Government 
Ireland 
Executive,  is  helping  to  build  economic  prosperity, 
assist  communities  to  move  beyond  conflict  and  sow 
the seeds for a shared future for all. 
The  European  Union  and  its  27  member  States 

are  firmly  committed  to  effective  multilateralism  with 
a strong United Nations at its core. We look forward to 
further  consultations  with  the  Member  States  of  this 
Organization  on  proposed  changes  to  the  status  of  the 
European  Union  in  the  General  Assembly.  These 
modest  adjustments  will  help  the  Union  to  make  a 
more  effective  contribution 
the 
Assembly  and  of  the  United  Nations.  A  European 
Union speaking with a clear and coherent voice on the 
great  global  challenges  that  this  Organization  must 
address  will,  I  believe,  strengthen  the  impact  and 
effectiveness of the United Nations as a whole. That is 
something to which Ireland and its EU partners attach 
the utmost importance. 

We  live  in  times  of  profound  and  unsettling 
change and daunting global challenges. As we struggle 
to deal with these challenges and to chart ways forward 
the  Northern 
the  work  of 
and 
to 
A/65/PV.20
for 
to 
and 
for 
Ireland 
is 
It 
remains 
leading 
resource. 
committed 
steadfastly 
international  consensus-building  and 
in  an  insecure  world,  the  United  Nations  is  an 
increasingly  valuable 
the 
international  organization  with  the  greatest  potential 
for 
the 
framing  of  collective  strategies  and  solutions.  At  its 
heart  are  the  fundamental  principles  embodied  in  the 
United  Nations  Charter,  principles  which  have 
underpinned the conduct of international relations over 
the  past  65  years  and  whose  strength  and  validity  is 
more apparent today than ever before. 

this 
Organization and the principles and values on which it 
rests.  I  very  much  welcome  the  General  Assembly 
President’s emphasis on the need for a strong, inclusive 
and  open  United  Nations,  and  we  look  forward  to 
taking part in the consultations which he has indicated 
he will be convening. We look to the United Nations as 
indispensable  forum  for  developing  effective 
the 
multilateralism 
international 
endeavours  towards  the  creation  of  a  more  peaceful, 
prosperous and secure world. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call on His Excellency Mr. Mamadou Tangara, Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs,  International  Cooperation  and 
Gambians Abroad of the Republic of the Gambia. 
Mr.  Tangara  (Gambia):  It  is  indeed  a  great 

honour and privilege for me to stand here and speak on 
behalf of the Gambia and the President of the Republic 
of the Gambia, His Excellency Al Hadji Yahya A. J. J. 
Jammeh. 
First  of  all,  I  thank  Allah,  may  He  be  glorified 

and exalted, for the opportunity of this moment, as we 
gather  here  to  deliberate  on  ways  to  foster  peaceful 
cooperation  and  development  across  the  world.  On 
behalf  of  my  delegation  and  the  Government  and  the 
people  of  the  Gambia,  I  wish  to  thank  the  General 
Assembly  for  the  warm  welcome  my  delegation  and  I 
have  received  since  our  arrival.  I  also  wish  to  offer 
deep  congratulations 
to  His  Excellency  Mr. Ali 
Abdussalam  Treki  of  the  Libyan Arab  Jamahiriya,  for 
his  courage  and  for  the  outstanding  and  efficient 
leadership  he  demonstrated  during  the  sixty-fourth 
session  of  the  General  Assembly.  We  welcome  His 
Excellency  Mr. Joseph  Deiss  of  Switzerland  as  
Mr.  Treki’s  successor  as  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session.  We  would  assure 
Mr.  Deiss  of  the  Gambia’s  support  for  his  presidency. 
My delegation would also like to thank  the Secretary-
10-55128 

39 
A/65/PV.20 

General for his tireless efforts in leading and managing 
the  affairs  of 
this  highly  complex  Organization. 
Finally, I convey to all participants the good wishes of 
the Government and the people of the Republic of the 
Gambia. 

It is clear that the recent upheavals and crises in 
the  global  arena  have  put  into  sharp  focus  what  the 
United Nations can and must do as the springboard for 
coordinating  global  responses  and  solutions  to  global 
issues. For this reason, the theme that the President has 
chosen  for  the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly, namely, “Reaffirming the central role of the 
United Nations in global governance”, is very apt and 
timely.  Any  reaffirmation  of  the  pivotal  role  of  the 
United Nations must start with respect for the purposes 
and  principles  of  its  Charter.  In  the  same  vein,  the 
Organization  must  continue  to  implement  the  set  of 
reforms  that  were  introduced  at  the  2005  World 
Summit and other related United Nations summits and 
conferences.  Without  reform, 
the  United  Nations 
cannot be of relevance in the twenty-first century. 

One of the major reforms that we all agreed on is 
that the size, composition and working methods of the 
Security Council should be improved. In the absence of 
action  to  implement  the  reform,  the  legitimacy  of  the 
actions of that body will be open to question. Africa’s 
demand  for  greater  representation  in  all  categories  of 
Council  membership  is  rooted  in  the  need  for  justice 
and  for  an  end  to  its  marginalization.  It  is  therefore 
high  time  to  stop  consigning  Africa  to  the  fate  of 
second-class  membership  within  the  United  Nations 
through  its  perpetual  exclusion  from  the  important 
decision-making 
the  Security 
Council. 

For many years, I have called for a greater voice 
for  developing  countries  in  international  and  financial 
economic  matters,  and  today  I  renew  that  call  with  a 
deep  sense  of  urgency.  As  developing  countries,  we 
believe  that  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  should 
be 
the  discussion  and 
formulation  of  global  policies  in  the  economic  and 
social fields. 

The achievement of the Millennium Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  remains  a  major  priority  of  my 
Government.  Through  various  interventions,  policies 
and  programmes,  we  are  poised  to  achieve  and  even 
surpass some of the Goals. However, as we run the last 
stretch  before  2015,  the  critical  need  for  greater 
leading  platform  for 
takes  place 
that 
the 
in 

international  solidarity  and  partnership  cannot  be 
overemphasized.  I  am  confident  that  the  Gambia  will 
attain  all  the  Goals  by  2015,  as  we  are  already  on 
course to do so. 

We  should  remind  ourselves  that  the  United 
Nations  was  created  to  unify  the  world,  and  not  to 
divide  it.  The  Organization  should  be  seen  to  provide 
the most potent avenue for allaying fears and restoring 
hopes  and  aspirations,  fighting  for  the  rights  of 
oppressed  and  desperate  people  the  world  over,  and, 
above  all,  restraining  bullies  who  seek  to  skew 
international  politics,  growth  and  development,  most 
often using might and tyranny as weapons. 

International  criminal  law  and  its  institutions 
have  a  crucial  role  to  play  in  global  governance  and 
hence  the  need  to  avoid  selective  prosecution  and  the 
politicization  of  court  processes.  In  the  world  today, 
there is ample evidence to suggest the existence of the 
widespread abuse of power, oppression and violation of 
human rights through illegitimate wars and other forms 
of excessive intervention. There are times when strong 
nations attack and trample upon the sovereignty of the 
weak,  while  the  United  Nations  and  the  world  watch 
helplessly,  doing  nothing,  except  for  a  few  who  raise 
their voices in isolation. 
This  will  not  deter  us  or  discourage  us  from 

highlighting 
International 
Criminal  Court  is  supposed  to  set  right.  If  that 
institution gives way to undue pressure or demonstrates 
weakness,  its  cracks  may  undermine  the  credibility  of 
the international judicial system. 

We know that there are leaders, past and present, 
who  deserve  to  be  dragged  into  the  International 
Criminal Court for prosecution but they go about their 
business  as  if  they  were  above  the  law.  I  ask  whether 
this is acceptable. 

As  a  consequence  of  all  this,  global  governance, 
from  the  perspective  of  the  United  Nations,  has  to  go 
beyond  political  systems  aimed  at  exposing  and 
neutralizing  the  strategies  employed  to  subdue  fragile 
States. Good governance, as the West prefers to refer to 
it,  needs  to  permeate  the  finance  structures  —  of  the 
World  Bank  and  the  International  Monetary  Fund,  for 
example  —  in  order  to  render  them  more  effective  in 
offsetting the imbalances created through exploitation, 
control  and  protectionism.  Indeed,  these  international 
financial  powerhouses  should  be  transformed  into 
injustices 
that 
the 
the 
40 

10-55128 
should 
engage 
for 
mitigating 
the 
effects 
to  punish 
legitimately 
imposition  of  sanctions 


conduits 
underdevelopment and poverty the world over. 

It  is  lamentable  that  the  assessment  criteria  for 
providing  assistance  to  needy  people  or  nations  in 
distress  are  tied  to  political  affiliations  cloaked  in 
inexplicable, good governance issues. 
The  Security  Council  has  contributed  to  the 

unfair 
that  have  direct 
consequences for the lives of civilians. Such measures, 
often  taken  to  bring  down  Governments,  continue  to 
expose  this  Organization  and  the  ploys  it  subtly 
executes  at 
the  behest  of  powerful  nations.  We 
condemn such sanctions and recommend that thorough 
consultations  and  sounder  procedures  precede  any 
sanctions  that  may  have  direct,  negative  impact  on 
innocent lives. 

Similarly,  we  condemn  indiscriminate  use  of 
banned  weapons  with  impunity  while  the  Security 
Council  does  nothing 
the  culprits. 
Combatants 
enemy 
combatants, and reckless attacks on defenceless people 
must not be condoned. 

There  are  regional  structures  in  almost  every 
corner of the globe. The United Nations must recognize 
those  structures  and  work  closely  with  them  to  quell 
unrest wherever it erupts. To illustrate this point, let me 
observe that the Economic Community of West African 
States and the African Union (AU) have demonstrated 
ability, if adequately supported, to handle unrest on the 
African continent. I wish to call on the United Nations 
to  intensify  its  collaboration  with  those  groupings  in 
crucial State and inter-State interventions. 

subregional 
the 
organizations in Africa  have opened  up many avenues 
for  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations,  especially  in 
the area of preventive diplomacy. We would like to see 
greater support for the activities of the United Nations 
Office for West Africa. 

It  is  an  open  secret  that West Africa  is  suffering 
an  onslaught  of  drug  traffickers. We  are  committed  to 
the  fight  against  illegal  narcotics,  not  only  in  the 
Gambia,  but  also  in  the  whole  of  Africa,  as  illegal 
narcotics  traffickers  are  holding  some  West  African 
States hostage. 

The dangers of narcotics transcend boundaries, as 
they  provide  a  lot  of  money  to  dangerous  criminals, 
including terrorists, who have no regard for human life. 
The  African  Union 
of 
A/65/PV.20
Given the enormous challenges that lie ahead of us in 
this  battle,  our  security  forces  are  alert  and  ready  to 
cooperate with our neighbours and all those who share 
our concerns. We are determined more than ever to turn 
West  Africa  into  a  living  hell  for  terrorists,  drug 
traffickers  as  well  as  organized  criminal  gangs  and 
human  traffickers.  This  is  a  battle  we  must  win,  and 
win right. 

Let me turn to the phenomenon of Islamophobia. 
It  is  important  to  note  that  the  message  of  Islam  is 
universal  peace  and  progress,  love  for  humanity  and 
total submission to the will of Allah. History teaches us 
that Islamic civilization, which has flourished for 1,400 
years,  has  always  exhibited  its  unique  capacity  for 
peaceful coexistence, tolerance and compassion among 
global  religions,  manifested  in  the  vast  expanse  of  its 
dominions, cutting across parts of Europe, Africa, Asia 
and Eastern Europe, among other regions. 

Islamic  teachings  condemn  terrorism  in  all  its 
manifestations  and  view  such  acts  as  not  only  savage 
but  also  criminal.  Islam  regards  human  life  as  sacred 
and condemns the killing of innocents. The world, and 
in particular the West, should therefore be wary of the 
actions  of  a  small  few,  including  those  who  abuse  the 
Holy  Koran  and  even  threaten  to  burn  it,  thereby 
insecurity.  Their  actions 
fuelling 
tensions  and 
constitute  manipulations 
to 
its 
followers in the wrong way. We must not allow bigots, 
racists  and  evil  entities 
that  are 
masquerading  as  nationalists  and  far  right  elements  to 
spread a global war of religion. If this were to happen, 
the entire human race would suffer. Therefore, Western 
Governments  should  do  more  to  stop  these  real 
terrorists who are on the rampage. 

We maintain that the United Nations should play 
a  lead  role  in  combating  terrorism  through  means 
approved  by 
that 
terrorism  is  a  global  challenge,  no  unilateral  action 
based on any form of doctrine should be taken by any 
nation  against  another,  nor  must  the  United  Nations 
succumb to external pressure from any single nation in 
pursuit  of  national  gains  or  interests.  Conversely,  we 
support 
the  use  of  multilateral  diplomacy  and 
cooperation  to  complement  internal  measures  where  a 
particular nation is the target of terrorism. 

My  delegation’s  position  on  the  issues  raised  in 
this  statement  is  to  see  to  it  that  the  United  Nations 
reviews  its  governance  structures  in  order  to  become 
the  General  Assembly.  Noting 
judge  Islam  and 
the  West 
in 
and 
10-55128 

41 
that 
require 
A/65/PV.20 

more  democratic.  This  would 
the 
representation  quotas  for  various  regions,  particularly 
Africa  and  Asia,  be  redefined  on  the  basis  of  the 
principles of fair play and justice, and not on the basis 
of sheer economic or military might. 

We  recommend  that  the  laws  and  procedures 
governing  the  issue  of  arrest  warrants,  prosecution 
procedures and legal representation at the International 
Criminal  Court  also  be  reviewed  objectively,  in  order 
to  avoid  politicization  and  the  selective  targeting  of 
individuals. 

We also urge that all sovereign States that have a 
legitimate  Government  based  on  the  will  and  consent 
of their people be admitted to the United Nations, and 
this  applies  in  particular  to  the  Republic  of  China  on 
Taiwan.  We  commend  the  countries  on  both  sides  of 
the  Strait  for  their  continuous  progress  in  pursuing 
peace  and  shelving  disputes  over  the  past  two  years. 
While both States deserve special recognition and more 
encouragement,  the  United  Nations  also  needs  to  be 
cognizant  of  the  efforts  by  Taiwan  in  this  peaceful 
process. It is important to note that Taiwan’s invitation 
to  participate  in  the  World  Health  Assembly  as  an 
observer 
in  2009  and  2010  not  only  enhanced 
international  health  and  medical  care  networks,  but 
also  set  a  positive  example  for Taiwan’s participation. 
We  therefore  urge  all  Member  States  to  ensure  that 
other  specialized  agencies  are  opened  up  to  Taiwan’s 
meaningful  participation  in  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations. 

the 
international community through trade, investment, air 
transport, finance, telecommunications technology and 
environmental  protection  in  the  spirit  of  international 
cooperation.  Therefore,  we  call  upon 
the  United 
Nations  to  find  a  proper  way  to  accept  Taiwan’s 
participation in all its specialized agencies, notably the 
International  Civil  Aviation  Organization  and 
the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change. 

The  international  community  needs  to  recognize 
that  Taiwan  has  adopted  and  pursued  a  pragmatic, 
moderate  and  steady  foreign  policy,  and  we  therefore 
encourage  United  Nations  specialized  agencies  to  be 
open-minded  with  regard  to  Taiwan’s  participation  in 
their  activities.  It  is  our  collective  responsibility  to 
enable  the  23  million  people  of  Taiwan  to  participate 
is  contributing 
immensely 
Taiwan 
to 

to 
that 
is  still 
running  political  disputes 
more visibly and make them able to function within the 
international system. 

The United States embargo against Cuba is one of 
the 
longest 
this 
Assembly  has  needed  to  address  for  almost  two 
decades.  It  is  embarrassing  that  such  a  cruel  and 
outmoded  form  of  settling  scores  in  international 
relations 
in  place.  The  embargo  has  no 
legitimacy  or  appeal,  and  it  is  time  for  those  that 
imposed it to show genuine leadership by ending it. 
It  is  worth  noting  that  the  development  of  the 

African  Union  has  shown  that  African  leadership  on 
African  issues  is  the  key  to  finding  solutions  to  the 
problems  that  continue  to  plague  the  continent.  From 
climate  change 
the  undemocratic  change  of 
Governments,  from  peacekeeping  to  peacemaking, 
from  development  to  regional  integration,  Africa  has 
shown that it is ready to chart its destiny with dignity. 
That is what we are committed to, and all we ask of the 
international  community  is  fulfilment  of  the  pledges 
made to Africa. We are willing to cooperate with those 
that  are  willing  to  do  so  respecting  the  dignity  of  our 
countries, without humiliating conditionalities. 

The Gambia’s commitment to peace and stability 
across  Africa  has  been  manifested  not  only  in  troop 
contributions,  but  also  in  our  readiness  at  all  times  to 
find  peaceful  solutions 
the 
African  continent.  We  call  on 
international 
community to lend its full support to the efforts of the 
African  Union  and  the  United  Nations  to  consolidate 
peace and stability across the Sudan. 
As for  Somalia,  we  recognize  the  need  to 

empower  the  Government  of  Somalia,  so  that  it  can 
assert  its  authority  over  its  territory,  achieve  lasting 
peace  and,  thus,  address  the  problem  of  piracy. 
Supporting one faction against another is not a worthy 
solution to the Somali problem. 

A  major  development  in  the  evolution  of  the 
United  Nations  this  year  has  been  the  creation  of 
UN Women. As a firm believer in gender equality and 
women’s empowerment, my Government will do all in 
its power to support that entity. We wish the new board 
well  and  urge  them  to  assign  centre  stage  to  gender 
issues and policies without politics. 

Finally, we believe that there is no substitute for 
the  United  Nations,  a  body  whose  role  in  global 
governance  we  consider  critical. The  missing  link  has 
to  conflicts  plaguing 
the 
42 

10-55128 


been the absence of a global governance framework to 
embrace universality and representation. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Manuel  Salvador  dos 
Ramos,  Minister  for  Foreign Affairs,  Cooperation  and 
Communities of the Democratic Republic of Sao Tome 
and Principe. 
Mr.  Salvador  dos  Ramos  (Sao  Tome  and 

Principe)  (spoke  in  Portuguese;  English  text  provided 
by  the  delegation):  Allow  me  to  convey  to  the 
President  and  to  this  noble Assembly  the  greetings  of 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Fradique  Bandeira  Melo  de 
Menezes, the President of the Democratic Republic of 
Sao Tome and Principe, who cannot attend this meeting 
for  scheduling  reasons.  Since  this  is  his  last  term  as 
President  on  constitutional  grounds,  President  de 
Menezes  would  have  much  liked  to  participate  in  this 
sixty-fifth  session  in  order  to  personally  express  his 
sincere  and  heartfelt  thanks  for  the  support  and 
cooperation  of  our  Organization  provided  to  him 
during the period of his presidency. 

On  behalf  of  the  delegation  of  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  Sao Tome  and  Principe,  which  I  have  the 
honour  to  lead,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  on  his  election  to 
chair  this  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General Assembly. 
His election is proof that the Member countries of this 
Organization recognize the contribution that he and his 
country, Switzerland, have made to the cause of peace 
and 
ideals  of  freedom, 
democracy  and  human  rights  in  the  world.  We  are 
therefore  convinced  that  he  will  guide  our  work  with 
dexterity, clarity and success. We also congratulate him 
for the relevance of the theme “Reaffirming the central 
role  of  the  United  Nations  in  global  governance”, 
which  merits  the  attention  of  all  present  here  on 
account of its timeliness. 

the  very  distinguished  Secretary-
General  of  the  United  Nations,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for 
the  efforts,  dedication  and  skill  with  which  he  has 
guided  our  Organization,  despite 
the  enormous 
political, economic and social challenges that the world 
is  facing,  in  particular  with  regard  to  the  issues  of 
peace, 
underdevelopment, 
extreme poverty, climate change, food security and the 
continuation  of  some  regional  conflicts.  It  is  our  deep 
conviction  that,  in  order  to  collectively  face  such 
challenges,  we  must  reaffirm  and  strengthen  our 
to  upholding 
international 
We  salute 
the  noble 
security, 
A/65/PV.20
in  preventing  and 
confidence  in  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in 
promoting peace and justice in the world. 

is  of  vital 
The  defence  of  multilateralism 
importance in seeking solutions based on the principles 
of  the  United  Nations  Charter. The  role  of  the  United 
Nations 
resolving  conflicts, 
promoting  peace  and  supporting  development  should 
be bolstered. In that regard, it is vital to strengthen the 
role  of  the  United  Nations,  including  reforming  the 
system  and  the  Security  Council,  in  order  to  provide 
responses that are more consistent with the challenges 
facing humanity today. 

We echo the concerns expressed in this Assembly 
Hall by the President of Malawi and Chairperson of the 
African Union in that regard. The consensus to date on 
the  question  of  Western  Sahara  leads  us  to  urge  the 
parties involved to continue on the path of dialogue in 
pursuit of a peaceful settlement of that conflict. 
Our  global  security  is  vital  to  the  sustainable 

development  of  our  countries.  The 
international 
community  must  be  cautious  and  aware  of  the  risks 
that the Palestinian conflict could spread and endanger 
the  entire  Middle  East 
region  and  ultimately 
international peace and security in the larger world. 
Sao Tome and Principe welcomes the resumption 

of 
the  dialogue  on 
the  Palestine  question  and 
encourages  the  Government  of  the  State  of  Israel  and 
the Palestinian Authority to continue on that course in 
the  hope  that  the  peoples  of  Israel  and  Palestine  will 
live  side  by  side  in  peace  in  the  future.  My  country 
would  also  like  to  acknowledge  and  welcome  the 
personal  commitment  of  President  Barack  Obama  to 
finding a permanent solution to that conflict. 

The world faces other risks, such as transnational 
crime,  piracy  and  drug  trafficking.  For  us,  a  small 
country surrounded by a vast expanse of sea, that is a 
significant reason for concern. Sao Tome and Principe 
will therefore continue to pay particular attention to the 
regional integration organizations to which we belong, 
as  well  as  to  give  priority  to  conflict-prevention,  -
management  and  -resolution  mechanisms  in  order  to 
ensure security and peace in Central Africa. 

taking 
in 
international politics, which are the result of structural 
changes  in  the  global  economy  and  have  important 
geopolitical  implications,  have  been  affecting  Sao 
Tome  and Principe in various ways. As a  small island 
profound 
changes 
place 
The 
10-55128 

43 

A/65/PV.20 

State, Sao Tome and Principe therefore calls for greater 
access to various economic opportunities, in particular 
official  development  assistance  and 
international 
investment.  Moreover,  we  support  the  conclusion  of  a 
new international trade agreement on a more equitable 
and fairer basis, as well as the conclusion of the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change. 

We  welcome  the  appointment  of  Ms.  Michelle 
Bachelet, former President of Chile, to oversee matters 
relating to women and gender with a view to promoting 
their participation in global challenges. 

At the Millennium Summit in 2000, world leaders 
committed  themselves  to  creating  an  environment 
conducive  to  development  and  the  eradication  of 
poverty,  both  nationally  and 
internationally.  The 
adoption  of  the  Millennium  Declaration  was  followed 
by  other  international  conferences,  which,  although 
they  reaffirmed  the  commitment  of  both  the  donor 
community  and  the  countries  receiving  aid  to  seek 
innovative  funding  sources  and  alternatives,  did  not 
have  the  desired  effect  of  alleviating  world  poverty 
levels.  However,  it  is  vital  that  we  create  a  new  spirit 
of  partnership  and  a  better  concept  of  cooperation  for 
development. To that end, there is a need for additional 
efforts in the area of official development assistance. 

The High-level Meeting that has just taken place 
here  in  New  York  is  proof  of  our  concern  about  the 
benchmarks  to  be  achieved  for  the  attainment  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  For  our  part,  the 
results  in  the  area  of  education  and  health  are  fairly 
encouraging,  particularly  when  it  comes  to  reducing 
child mortality and combating HIV/AIDS, malaria and 
other diseases. 

With regard to education for all, our net enrolment 
rate in the first cycle of primary education — for children 
aged  one  to  four  —  is  estimated  at  98  per  cent. 
Literacy  rates  in  the  15  to  24  age  group  are  high  as 
compared  to  most  African  countries,  namely,  96  per 
cent for females and 95 per cent for males. 

The results in reducing child mortality have been 
equally  encouraging.  In  2009,  we  recorded  38  deaths 
per  1,000  live  births.  That  is  a  significant  reduction 
compared with past years. For example, there were 61 
per  1,000  live  births  in  2002.  The  mortality  rate  for 
children  under  five  fell  from  138  to  101  deaths  per 
1,000  live  births  in  2002,  further  dropping  to  63  in 
2009.  The  number  of  children  immunized  against 
treaty  regulating 
the 
44 

10-55128 
the  process  of  building 
measles  has  increased  substantially,  with  84  per  cent 
vaccinated in 2009 as compared to 70 per cent in 2000. 

With regard to the prevalence of HIV/AIDS, it is 
still  contained  but  can  spread  rapidly.  The  prevalence 
rate in the 15 to 24 year age range is 0.7 per cent, but 
among the total population aged 15 to 49 it is 1.5 per 
cent. The prevalence rate  of malaria has been reduced 
dramatically,  from  478  cases  per  1,000  inhabitants  in 
2002 to about 34 cases in 2009. 

It  is  true  that  our  country  has  made  significant 
progress  in  the  areas  I  have  mentioned,  but  we  are 
aware  that  much  more  remains  to  be  done  in  order  to 
achieve the Millennium Development Goals. 

Sao  Tome  and  Principe  believes  that  it  is  our 
collective  responsibility  to  take  measures  to  address 
the  adverse  effects  of  climate  change,  although  we 
welcome the political willingness of Member States to 
continue 
the  necessary 
consensus  on  the  various  themes  discussed  at  the 
Copenhagen Summit. We recognize the efforts made at 
the  recent  meeting  held  in  Bonn,  as  well  as  the 
prospects  for  the  opening  meeting  to  be  held  in 
Mexico.  
Sao  Tome  and  Principe  expresses  its  concern  at 

attempts 
to  use  nuclear  energy  for  non-peaceful 
purposes.  We  hope  that  those  who  utilize  nuclear 
energy  do  so  in  accordance  with  existing  mechanisms 
for international regulation and supervision. 

Climate  change  has  caused  imbalances  in  the 
microclimate  of  our  country,  with  dramatic  impact  on 
our  domestic  production.  That  poses  a  threat  to  the 
food  security  of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe.  The 
authorities  of  my  country  would  therefore  like  to 
continue  to  count  on  the  invaluable  support  and 
willingness  so  far  expressed  by  the  international 
community, in general, and in particular by specialized 
bodies of the United Nations. 

I  would  be  remiss  if  I  concluded  my  statement 
without  addressing  the  situation  along  the  Taiwan 
Strait.  We  recognize  the  efforts  made  by  both  sides 
along the Strait aimed at reducing political tension and 
creating  a  favourable  climate  that  is  conducive  to 
peace, security and development in the region. Despite 
those  positive  developments  —  including  the  signing 
trade  relations 
of  an  economic 
to 
between 
commercial 
links 
two  sides,  opening  up  airspace 
traffic  and  promoting  stronger 
those 
In  consolidating 
two  forums  will  strengthen  both 


between the two peoples — there are still some aspects 
that  must  be  addressed  in  order  to  allow  greater 
involvement by Taiwan in the international community. 

We  call  on  Members  of  the  United  Nations,  and 
in  particular  its  specialized  agencies,  to  find  ways  to 
make  possible  Taiwan’s  greater  participation 
in 
specialized  agencies  and  other  bodies  and  machinery, 
such  as  the  International  Civil  Aviation  Organization 
and  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change. We believe that Taiwan’s participation 
in 
those 
mechanisms and better serve our common interests. 

the 
its  democratic  process, 
Democratic  Republic  of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  has 
just  conducted  yet  another  elections  process,  from 
which a new Government and Assembly have emerged. 
The new Government, whose programme has just been 
approved by the National Assembly, has identified four 
key  areas  for  attention,  namely,  good  governance, 
credibility  and  combating  corruption;  economic 
growth;  national  cohesion  and  organization;  and  State 
authority. To achieve those objectives, the Government 
of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  would  very  much  like  to 
count  on  the  continued  support  of  the  international 
community. 

We believe that the international community, and 
in particular the United Nations system, knows how to 
respond to the new challenges of a changing world by 
seeking  out  mechanisms,  instruments  and  policies 
aimed 
cooperation, 
innovative  partnerships  and  international  solidarity.  In 
that collective effort, I want to reaffirm that Sao Tome 
and  Principe 
its 
contribution  to  the  realization  of  the  noble  principles 
and objectives that were at the heart of the creation of 
the United Nations. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  General  Antoine 
Gambi,  Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs,  Regional 
Integration,  and  of  the  Francophonie  of  the  Central 
African Republic. 

Mr. Gambi (Central African Republic) (spoke in 
French):  The  Central  African  Republic  would  like, 
through  me,  to  commend  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss  on  his 
election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General Assembly  at 
its  sixty-fifth  session.  We  congratulate  him  and  offer 
him  our  support  in  fulfilling  his  great  responsibility. 
His  predecessor,  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki  of  the 
is  ready  and  willing 
to  make 
at 
promoting 
international 
A/65/PV.20
Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya,  also  deserves  our  heartfelt 
commendation  and  gratitude  for 
the  outstanding 
contribution  he  made  during  his  term  of  office  in 
revitalizing the General Assembly. Lastly, on behalf of 
His  Excellency  Army  General  François  Bozizé, 
President and Head of State of our country, allow me to 
convey  our  sincere  congratulations 
to  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon,  who  has  been  tireless  in 
carrying  out  his  extremely  important  role  to  promote 
the ideals of the Organization. 

The  sixty-fifth  session  is  taking  place  at  a  time 
when  the  world  faces  many  challenges.  In  addition  to 
the armed conflicts that affect almost every continent, 
there  are  also  the  food,  energy  and  financial  crises, 
which  have  made  the  lives  of  the  most  vulnerable 
people 
increasingly  precarious.  There  are  also 
challenges when it comes to respect for human rights, 
the  rule  of  law  and  good  governance,  which  are  the 
foundations of lasting peace and security and a healthy 
environment.  Today,  we  are  aware  that  systematic 
violations  of  human  rights  and  the  glaring  absence  of 
the  rule  of  law  are  often  the  root  causes  of  conflicts 
and  other  social  crises.  States  and  non-State  actors 
confront  each  other.  Warlords,  terrorists  and  criminal 
gangs  dictate  their  own  rules.  Civilians,  rather  than 
soldiers,  become  the  first  targets.  Security  policy  can 
no  longer  be  confined  to  the  traditional  framework  of 
the State; it must be focused first and foremost on the 
security of individuals. 

As  the  President  rightly  said  in  his  opening 
speech to this session of the General Assembly by way 
of  referring  to  the  special  theme  for  the  sixty-fifth 
session, “we must reinstate the United Nations and the 
General Assembly  at  the  centre  of  global  governance. 
The  challenges  we  face  today  have  acquired  a  global 
dimension and require global solutions.” (A/65/PV.1)  
to 

believe 
that  preventing  and  peacefully  resolving 
conflicts  are  the  best  way  to  maintain  international 
peace and security. Many other challenges also require 
the  attention  of  the  international  community.  We 
should  provide  responses  tailored  to  those  challenges 
in  order  that  together  we  can  build  a  better  world, 
starting with the issue of climate change. 

Today more than ever before, the survival of the 
planet is threatened by changes to the climate that have 
a  serious  impact  on  living  conditions  in  developing 
countries — owing mainly to desertification, the silting 
The  Central  African  Republic  continues 
10-55128 

45 

A/65/PV.20 

up of rivers, ecosystem deterioration, shortened winters 
and floods. Faced with that danger, it is not a matter of 
raising  questions  about  respective  responsibilities;  we 
must  rather,  first  and  foremost,  put  in  place  suitable 
emergency measures to confront the challenge. 

In  that  connection,  the  outcomes  of  the  Bali 
Conference are as relevant as ever and they should be 
implemented. Although, unfortunately, the Copenhagen 
summit was the scene of selfishness and inconsistency 
on the part of States vis-à-vis international cooperation 
and climate policy, we hope that the upcoming meeting 
at  Cancún,  Mexico,  will  find  appropriate  answers  to 
those worrying issues. 

The  HIV/AIDS  and  malaria  pandemics  are 
another  challenge  to  which  we  must  give  particular 
attention,  as  they  pose  a  serious  threat  to  the  survival 
of  humankind,  in  particular  on  the  African  continent. 
With regard to HIV/AIDS, we must truly redouble our 
efforts  and  determination  to  implement  the  2001 
Declaration  of  Commitment  on  HIV/AIDS  and  the 
outcomes  of  the  high-level  meetings  on  AIDS.  Child 
and maternal mortality rates in Africa, whose increase 
is yet another cause for concern, should also enjoy the 
same  attention  as  the  other  issues.  All  of  those 
meetings have emphasized the gravity of the situation, 
underscoring the importance of acting and the need to 
mobilize  resources  accordingly  to  fight  those  health 
threats. 

Achieving  Millennium  Development  Goal  1  on 
time — namely, reducing by half the number of people 
who suffer from hunger by 2015 — compels us to put 
in  place  a  new  approach  and  policy 
towards 
international  cooperation  that  is  based  on  support  for 
agriculture,  rather  than  on  providing  food  assistance, 
which  should  only  be  provided 
in  exceptional 
circumstances, and then in a timely manner. 

it 
provides  for  lasting  food  security  also  necessarily 
entails controlling water, the availability of equipment, 
access  to  raw  materials  for  producers  and  proper 
organization  of  the  means  of  producing,  storing, 
transforming  and  marketing  agricultural  products. The 
Central  African  Republic,  a  country  endowed  with 
abundant  natural  resources,  would  easily  be  able  to 
take its place as an agricultural country, were it not for 
the  handicaps  it  faces  owing  to  its  landlocked  status 
and the scarcity of means at its disposal. 
Developing  agriculture 
in  Africa  so 
that 
Agriculture 
in  my  country 

is  essentially  a 
subsistence  affair  that  performs  poorly  despite  the 
country’s enormous potential. That includes 15 million 
arable  hectares,  of  which  only  600,000  are  cultivated 
annually,  as  well  as  16  million  hectares  of  range  land 
for  a  herd  of  2  million  animals.  We  also  have  at  our 
disposal  a  vast  network  of  rivers  and  streams,  as  well 
as  abundant  rainfall  amounting  to  1,200  to  1,800 
millimetres per year. Agriculture employs more than 75 
per cent of working people in our country, contributing 
about 53 per cent of our gross domestic product. 

In the Central African Republic, about 72 per cent 
of  the  poor  and  hungry  live  in  rural  areas,  where 
agriculture  plays  a  crucial  role,  feeding  communities 
but  providing  employment  that  offers  only  meagre 
incomes.  Nevertheless,  in  spite  of  the  enormity  of  the 
need  and  the  growing  food  insecurity,  assistance  to 
agriculture  continues  to  decrease,  having  dropped 
significantly in the past 20 years. 

The Central African Republic has maintained the 
strengthening  of  human  capital  as  one  of  its  priorities 
under the fourth pillar of its national poverty-reduction 
strategy.  Under  that  pillar,  education,  health  and 
employment  are  considered  priority  sectors,  in  line 
with the Millennium Development Goals. Assessments 
of  the  programmes  that  have  been  launched  seem  to 
reveal  shortcomings  in  the  results.  For  instance,  adult 
literacy rates are poor, at 57 per cent, while the overall 
primary  school  attendance  rate  is  also  low,  at  55  per 
cent. 

The  Central  African  Republic  is  among  the 
countries of the world most affected by the HIV/AIDS 
pandemic,  even  though  we  are  continuing  efforts  to 
bring its prevalence under control. 
Given  those  outcomes,  it  is  clear  that,  if  our 

country 
the 
priorities of our development plan, we need significant 
support from our development partners. 
the 

proliferation crisis we are experiencing constitutes the 
greatest  threat  to  international  peace  and  security 
today.  Nuclear  disarmament  and  nuclear  proliferation 
in  all  their  aspects  should  be  at  the  centre  of  our 
debate.  We  should  resolve  to  prioritize  the  use  of 
nuclear energy for peaceful civilian purposes. 

interconnectedness  of 
to  nuclear  disarmament, 
than 
ever 
the  crises 
implementation  of 
Today  more 
is 
to  pursue 
the 
With 
regard 
before, 
faced  by 
the 
the 
46 

10-55128 
the  outcome  of 
including  collective  efforts  at 


international community underscores the need to inject 
new impetus into efforts to achieve international peace 
and  security, 
the 
international level. 

With  regard  to  reforming  the  United  Nations 
system,  the  Central African  Republic  shares  the  view 
that the current system no longer reflects the ambitions 
of the founders. Our country therefore once again calls 
for  full  representation  for  Africa  in  the  system’s 
decision-making  bodies,  in  particular  the  Security 
Council.  Whatever 
the  ongoing 
negotiations on this matter, my delegation continues to 
believe that any viable reform of the Security Council 
must take into account Africa’s numerical and political 
significance in the General Assembly, especially given 
the two types of situations considered by the Council. 
The  Central  African  Republic  held  elections  in 

2005,  which  were  heralded  by 
international 
community for having met all the necessary standards. 
It  should  be  pointed  out  that  those  held  in  2010 
experienced  various  difficulties 
to  be 
examined.  Therefore,  on  the  basis  of  a  political 
consensus, the National Assembly adopted a law based 
on  a  constitutional  court  opinion.  This  constitutional 
arrangement extends the term of office of our country’s 
President,  as  well  as 
the 
Assembly,  until  the  holding  of  elections,  now  set  for  
23 January 2011. 
the 

disarmament,  demobilization  and 
reintegration  of 
former  combatants  has  made  considerable  progress  in 
the  central  and  north-western  parts  of  our  country. 
Nevertheless,  the  Central  African  Republic  continues 
to  face  security  problems  in  the  north-east  of  the 
country, as a result of the consequences of the conflict 
in  Darfur,  as  well  as  in  the  south-east,  owing  to  the 
raging  Ugandan  rebellion  by  the  Lord’s  Resistance 
Army (LRA). 

This alarming situation has resulted in a growing 
number  of  refugees  and  internally  displaced  persons 
from various areas, who have fled to the cities from the 
fighting.  Having  been  pushed  out  of  Uganda,  LRA 
rebels have regrouped in the south-east of our country, 
where  they  carry  out  all  sorts  of  violence  and  spread 
terror  among  the  people.  It  is  important  to  point  out 
that  the  Central  African  Republic  does  not  have  any 
borders with Uganda. 
those  of  members  of 
that  need 
the 
In  another  area, 
the  programme 
for 
A/65/PV.20
to 
in 
the 
strengthening 
therefore  appeals 
for  assistance 

The Central African Republic therefore welcomes 
the  decision  by  the  United  States  Government  with 
regard  to  disarming  the  LRA.  Nevertheless,  we  hope 
that  the  United  States  Administration  will  focus  in 
particular on the case of the Central African Republic, 
which is a post-conflict country that still needs United 
States  assistance,  given  the  danger  posed  by  the  LRA 
on the ground in our country and the disastrous social 
consequences it has already had. 
The President returned to the Chair. 

The  United  Nations  Mission  in  the  Central 

African Republic and Chad, whose mandate will expire 
on  31  December  2010,  requires  particular  attention. 
The  Central  African  Republic’s  defence  and  security 
forces will take over from international forces in order 
to  ensure  the  continuity  of  operations.  However,  they 
are  in  desperate  need  of  military  equipment  and 
supplies.  The  Government  of  the  Central  African 
international 
Republic 
community 
the 
operational capacities of our armed forces. 

I cannot conclude without once again thanking all 
those  whose  commitment,  courage  and  determination 
continue  to  be  of  assistance  in  helping  my  country  to 
emerge from crisis to lasting peace and development. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor to His Royal Highness Prince Mohamed Bolkiah, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Trade  of  Brunei 
Darussalam. 
Prince Mohamed Bolkiah (Brunei Darussalam): 

I  would  like  to  congratulate  you,  Mr.  President,  on 
your  election.  I  also  thank  Mr.  Treki,  the  outgoing 
President,  for  his  strong  leadership  in  support  of 
United Nations reform. 

I would also like to express our great sympathy to 
the  Government  and  people  of  Pakistan  and  to  our 
fellow  United  Nations  Members  whose  people  have 
suffered the terrible effects of natural disasters over the 
past  year.  I  also  thank  the  Secretary-General  and  his 
staff for coordinating international relief efforts. 

We have had a long week of formal meetings and 
sideline discussions, and there is still much more to be 
done before we all go home. So, at this time, I would 
like  to  be  brief  and  offer  a  statement  of  support  for 
what our people regard as the most important aspect of 
the  work  of  the  United  Nations.  By  this  I  mean  the 
work  of  our  United  Nations  agencies,  their  experts, 
10-55128 

47 

A/65/PV.20 

their  advisers  and  above  all  their  volunteers  in  the 
field. 

I think the theme for this year’s debate underlines 
the  importance  of  their  work.  It  asks  us  to  recognize 
the  central  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  global 
governance  and  I  have  no  difficulty  in  doing  this. 
Achieving  security,  progress  and  development  is,  of 
course,  our  own  individual  responsibility.  But  as  last 
week’s  high-level  discussions  on 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals made extremely clear, many of the 
challenges  we  face  reach  beyond  single  nations  and 
even  single  regions.  They  are  international  in  the  full 
sense of the word. 

So  we  need  help,  experience  and  expertise  and 
for me, this is what the United Nations agencies offer. 
As we all know, their support continues all year, every 
year. In my own country it is taking place right now as 
we  speak,  through  the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme, 
the  United  Nations  Environment 
Programme, UNESCO, UNICEF and the World Health 
Organization  and  we  are  most  grateful  for  their  help. 
They  work  in  vital  areas  of  national  development, 
education,  health,  agriculture,  communications  and 
infrastructure.  They  meet  with  people  directly,  they 
train  and 
listen, 
encourage.  They  work  closely  with  our 
local 
authorities and sometimes they do even more than that. 

I  think  that  we  learned  this  during  last  year’s 
influenza A (H1N1) health crisis. As the Assembly can 
imagine,  for  a  small  nation  like  ours  this  was  very 
serious  indeed.  It  could  have  almost  closed  us  down 
and could have certainly caused widespread panic. But 
it did not. I think this was very largely due to one fact: 
our people knew that they were not alone. They had the 
guidelines  given 
the  World  Health 
Organization  and  this  gave  them  the  confidence  they 
needed during that extremely worrying time; we could 
not have made it without them. 

Returning to our theme this year: it invites us to 
reaffirm and, as I have said, I am happy to do this and I 
do  it  without  reservation.  I  reaffirm  our  respect  and 
deep  appreciation  for  the  work  of  all  United  Nations 
agencies.  We  are  delighted  to  be  working  with  them 
and  we  warmly  congratulate  the  Secretary-General  on 
their work. 

In  the  words  of  our  theme,  the  United  Nations 
does indeed play a central role. In my view, without its 
agencies the concept of global governance can only be, 
they  discuss,  and 
to  us  by 
teach, 
they 
previous 
speakers 
Balói 
itself  with 
at best, an idea and, most of the time, only words. It is 
the agencies that help us turn ideas into real substance 
and  to  change  words  into  actions  that  our  people 
understand, respect and welcome. 

In fact, I would like to end by saying that they are 
much  more  than  agencies.  For  countries  such  as  ours, 
they  can  help  us  to  become  far  more  than  small 
developing  nations.  I  think  this  can  be  summed  up 
simply:  they  make  us  part  of  a  United  Nations  that  is 
truly united. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 

His Excellency Mr. Oldemiro Marques Balói, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of the Republic of 
Mozambique. 
Mr. 
(Mozambique):  Mozambique 

associates 
in 
congratulating you, Sir, on your unanimous election to 
preside  over  the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  United 
Nations  General  Assembly.  Indeed  we  feel  confident 
that  your  wisdom  and  diligence  will  provide  positive 
leadership  and  success  for  our  deliberations.  We 
reaffirm  our  commitment  to  support  your  presidency 
and pledge to fully cooperate with you and all the other 
members of the Bureau in the discharge of your noble 
mission. 

to  your 
predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki 
of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, for his commitment to 
our  Organization  and  for  his  strong  leadership  in 
carrying  out  the  work  of  the  United  Nations,  both 
productively  and  effectively  during 
the  previous 
General Assembly session. 
Equally, I would like to commend the Secretary-

General,  Ban  Ki-moon, 
in 
promoting  peace  and  justice  and,  in  particular,  for  his 
tireless efforts to mobilize the United Nations family to 
adequately  address  the  global  challenges  facing  the 
world  and  humanity  through  concerted  multilateral 
approaches. 

Recognizing  the  steering  role  of  the  United 
Nations  in  global  governance  and  highly  appreciating 
the wise choice of reflecting this important and timely 
item  during 
the  present  debate,  I  request  your 
indulgence  to  seize  this  opportunity  to  share  some 
information  about  developments  in  Mozambique.  As 
we move steadily towards strengthening the democratic 
institutions  in  Mozambique,  we  are  proud  to  see  that 
to  express  our  gratitude 
for  his  engagement 
We  wish 
48 

10-55128 
to 
thanks 
Indeed, 
immensely 
in  place,  have  contributed 
the  socio-economic  spheres  of 
that  Mozambique  currently  enjoys, 


there  have  been  significant  achievements  in  both  the 
political  and 
the 
country. 
the  strengthened  political 

stability 
the 
Government  is  undertaking  a  comprehensive  public 
sector  reform  and  decentralization  process  in  the  area 
of public administration. Similarly, political and social 
stability  and  good  macroeconomic  management, 
supplemented  by  the  attractive  investment  legislation 
already 
to 
creating  conditions  conducive  to  promoting  economic 
growth and sustainable development. 

Our main goal is to eradicate poverty, as it is one 
of  the  major  challenges  facing  our  people  in  their 
efforts to improve their living conditions. We are fully 
aware  that  in  fighting  poverty  we  need  also  to 
simultaneously  address  other 
related  challenges, 
namely,  climate  change, 
the  energy  crisis,  food 
insecurity and the global economic and financial crisis, 
whose 
impacts  constitute  an  enduring  challenge, 
especially  for  developing  economies  such  as  that  of 
Mozambique. All those challenges are interrelated and 
have  multiplier  effects  on  our  competitiveness  and 
growth efforts. 
The  threats  posed  by  the  negative  impact  of 

climate  change  on  our  environment  need 
to  be 
continuously  dealt  with  as  a  priority  and  should  be 
comprehensively 
national, 
subregional,  regional  and  international  levels.  The 
devastation  due  to  problems  originating  in  climate 
change is degrading our environment at an astonishing 
pace. In fact, Mozambique and many other countries in 
sub-Saharan  Africa  are  being  ravaged  by  cyclical 
natural  disasters  that  destroy  major  arable  lands  and 
thus reduce land productivity. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  small  island  developing 
countries face the risk of disappearing from the world 
map. At the same time, it is also important to recognize 
the  plight  of  coastal  developing  countries 
like 
Mozambique,  which  are  suffering  from  the  rise  in  sea 
levels. 
The  heavy  burden  resulting  from  the  adverse 

effects  of  climate  change  constrains  the  ability  of  our 
Governments  to  allocate  the  necessary  financial  and 
human resources to decisively address problems related 
to  the  environment.  Hence,  developing  countries, 
particularly  sub-Saharan  countries,  do  not  have  the 
addressed 
at 
the 
A/65/PV.20
to 
required financial resources to undertake the necessary 
steps to mitigate the impact of climate change. To that 
end,  we  are  committed  to  continue  working  in  a 
concerted  manner  with 
international  development 
partners,  especially  the  United  Nations  and  other 
stakeholders  with  a  focus  on  creating  conditions  for 
adaptation and  local  community  resilience  to  the 
impact of climate change. 

Bearing  in  mind  the  principle  of  common  but 
differentiated responsibility, we would like to underline 
that  our  association  with  the  Copenhagen  Accord  on 
climate change is based precisely on our understanding 
that the global nature of climate change demands a true 
multilateral  response.  In  that  regard,  we  look  forward 
to a successful outcome of the sixteenth Conference of 
the  Parties 
the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change  — COP 16 —  to  be 
held in Cancún later this year. We commend the active 
role of the Secretary-General of the United Nations to 
ensure  a  meaningful  result  of  the  climate  change 
negotiations. 

In  addressing  all  the  aforementioned  challenges, 
strong  and  able  global  governance  is  of  utmost 
importance  to  ensure  the  spurring  of  the  political  will 
needed for concrete actions. The United Nations is the 
only  intergovernmental  organization  with  a  universal 
character  and  the  ability  to  mobilize  such  a  capacity. 
That 
to 
strengthen  the  central  role  of  the  United  Nations  in 
global  governance  are  required,  through  providing  it 
with 
authority 
commensurate  with  its  global  responsibility  to  fully 
respond to the growing global needs. 

Mozambique will remain engaged in the ongoing 
process  of  reforming  the  United  Nations  to  ensure  its 
efficiency  and  effectiveness,  to  increase  its  credibility 
and legitimacy as a representative of the people of the 
world. 

In  that  regard,  the  revitalization  of  the  role  and 
the  authority  of  the  General  Assembly  as  the  most 
representative  and  legitimate  organ  of  the  United 
Nations  cannot  be  overemphasized.  It  is  here  where 
everyone is represented and every vote counts in deciding 
on matters of common interest. So it is here where all the 
most important decisions should be taken — from issues 
related  to  the  maintenance  of  peace  and  security,  the 
promotion  of  economic  cooperation  and  social  and 
humanitarian matters to the promotion of human rights. 
is  why  we  believe 
that  concrete  steps 
resources 
adequate 
and 
the 
10-55128 

49 

in 
the  security  necessities  of 
A/65/PV.20 

Everyone should abide by and implement all decisions 
and resolutions taken here. Therefore, we need a strong 
General  Assembly,  well  resourced  and  with 
the 
necessary  authority  to  assume  its  responsibilities  on 
behalf of the international community. 

Another  important  track  of  reform  that  we  are 
very  much  attached  to  is  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council.  Although  there  is  no  agreement  yet  on  the 
level  of  attainment,  we  all  agree  that  reform  of  the 
Council  should  be  a  priority  in  the  whole  United 
Nations reform process. It is clear that we need a more 
balanced  representation  in  the  Council.  Moreover,  we 
are  of  the  view  that  a  Council  that  is  more  fair  and 
its  decisions  and  actions  would 
democratic 
adequately  meet 
the 
international community. 

For a meaningful reform of the Security Council, 
it is imperative that the historic injustice with regard to 
the African  continent  be  corrected.  Indeed,  today  it  is 
no  longer  acceptable  that  a  continent  that  represents 
almost  30  per  cent  of  the  whole  United  Nations 
membership  and  whose  concerns  constitute  more  than 
60 per cent of the Council’s agenda is not represented 
in  the  category  of  permanent  member.  In  that  light, 
Africa deserves to be allocated permanent seats in any 
Security  Council  reform,  based  on 
the  Ezulwini 
Consensus. 

There  is  also  a  need  for  a  more  coherent  and 
effective United Nations system, capable of efficiently 
addressing  and  advancing  durable  solutions  for  the 
pressing  economic,  social  and  humanitarian  problems 
currently facing the world. Member States should also 
continue  to  discuss  and  find  measurable  solutions  on 
how to ensure coherence between policy decisions and 
the  implementation  of  commitments  agreed  in  United 
Nations  international  conferences  and  summits  in  the 
field of development. 

In  that  regard,  Mozambique  is  proud  of  the 
progress  made  by  the  General  Assembly  on  system-
wide  coherence.  In  particular,  we  commend 
the 
Assembly for its recent major step in the establishment 
of UN Women. I seize this opportunity to reiterate our 
congratulations 
to  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Michelle 
Bachelet  on  her  appointment  as  Under-Secretary-
General  of  the  new  entity  and  pledge  our  full  support 
for  and  readiness  to  collaborate  on  the  successful 
accomplishment of the task of bringing gender equality 
that 
is 
initiative 
and the empowerment of women to the forefront of the 
United Nations work. 

It  is  also  a  fact  that,  although  we  are  open  to 
seeing  the  result  of  the  independent  evaluation  of  the 
One  United  Nations  pilot  country  initiative,  it  is  our 
strong  belief  that  the  progress  made  so  far  in  the 
implementation  of 
extremely 
encouraging. Therefore  we  call  on  the  United  Nations 
to  support  all  countries  that  voluntarily  decide  to 
embark  on  the  process  of  making  the  United  Nations 
system work in a more coherent manner at the country 
level. 

With  regard  to  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security,  Mozambique  is  committed  to 
continuing  to  share  its  experience  in  the  peaceful 
resolution of  conflicts, particularly in southern Africa. 
In our subregion, we share important responsibilities in 
the  promotion  of  peace  and  security,  as  well  as  with 
regard  to  regional  integration  as  part  of  subregional 
and regional efforts to promote international peace and 
security and sustainable development. 

We  advocate  international  peace  and  security 
because  we  truly  believe  that  they  are  part  of  the 
enabling conditions that allow countries to concentrate 
their  attention  on  dealing  with  other  pressing  needs, 
such as the fight against HIV/AIDS, malaria and other 
diseases, the fight against international crime and drug 
trafficking,  addressing  poverty-related  problems  and 
the promotion of sustainable development. 

It  is  worth  noting  that  the  political  situation  and 
stability in Southern Africa have improved. Indeed, the 
process  of 
the  Global  Political 
Agreement  in  Zimbabwe  has  made  significant  strides. 
We  also  remain  committed,  under  the  auspices  of  the 
Southern African Development Community, to finding 
a  peaceful  and  lasting  solution  to  the  conflict  in 
Madagascar. 

We are encouraged by the progress being made in 
stabilizing  the  political  situation  in  Guinea-Bissau, 
especially the ongoing reform of the armed forces and 
the public administration. I take this opportunity to call 
on the international community to continue supporting 
the  ongoing  efforts  of  the  Community  of  Portuguese-
speaking Countries and of the United Nations to find a 
sustainable and lasting peace in that sister country. 

Mozambique  reiterates  its  support  for  the  efforts 
of  the  international  community  to  find  a  lasting 
implementing 
50 

10-55128 
Mozambique 
is  concerned 
the 
to  deprive 
realization  of 


solution to the problem of Western Sahara, and for the 
right of that country’s people to self-determination. 

that  despite  all 
continued international efforts, it has not been possible 
to  bring  about  peace  and  stability  in  the  Middle  East. 
Mozambique  is  deeply  concerned  about  the  volatile 
situation  in  that  region,  where  the  conflict  between 
Israel  and  Palestine  continues 
the 
Palestinian  people  of 
their 
fundamental  human  rights,  including  the  right  to  their 
own  land  and  resources  and  to  live  in  peace  with  all 
neighbouring countries, including, obviously, Israel. 

We need a strong United Nations that can play a 
central  role  in  mobilizing  Member  States  and  the 
international  community  at  large  to  commit  and  fully 
contribute  to  regional  and  international  peace  and 
security  and  to  an  enabling  environment  for  the 
promotion of sustainable development. 
That  is  why  we  believe  in  multilateralism.  We 

reiterate our commitment to work in collaboration with 
all  States  Members  of  the  Organization  in  the  pursuit 
of our common goals to make the world a better place 
for all humanity. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 

His Excellency Mr. Bhim Bahadur Rawal, Minister for 
Home  Affairs  of  the  Federal  Democratic  Republic  of 
Nepal. 
Mr. Rawal (Nepal): I wish to extend our sincere 

congratulations  to  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth 
session.  I  also  thank  the  President  at  the  sixty-fourth 
session  for  his  excellent  stewardship  of  that  session. 
His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon, Secretary-General of 
the  United  Nations,  deserves  our  sincere  appreciation 
for his commitment and dedication. 
The  message  of  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting 

of 
last  week 
this 
Assembly:  the  continuing  poverty  and  hunger  in 
today’s world, where we have made great strides in all 
our endeavours, is unacceptable and must be brought to 
an  end  without  delay.  It  is  quite  disheartening  to  note 
that the number of poor has surpassed one billion and 
that they are concentrated in certain regions and groups 
of  countries,  mostly  in  least  developed  countries 
(LDCs). 
leaders 

attending  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  last  week 
The  commitments  expressed  by 
reverberating  around 
is  still 
A/65/PV.20
in  a 
rekindled  our  hope  that  it  will  be  a  different  world  in 
2015.  Otherwise, 
the  Millennium  Declaration 
(resolution 55/2) and many other vital documents will 
remain  only  a  compilation  of  lofty  promises.  Let  us 
hope that we match our commitments with our deeds. 

International  peace  and  security  are  our  shared 
desire and a common responsibility. The challenges are 
multiple  and  complex.  In  an  ever-changing world,  the 
sources  and  the  threats  are  varied,  and  so  are  the 
actors.  Political  and  social  conflicts  have  been 
aggravated  by  abject  poverty  and  disparity. Therefore, 
the  stabilization  of  global  peace  and  security  also 
demands ensuring freedom from want and hunger as a 
basic human right and enabling people to realize their 
that 
full  human  potential.  Thus  we  believe 
development,  peace  and  security  are 
inextricably 
linked with one other. 

Nepal  has  consistently  and  unequivocally  called 
for  general  and  complete  disarmament  of  all  weapons 
of  mass  destruction,  under  effective 
international 
control.  Nepal  stands  for  the  complete  elimination  of 
nuclear  weapons 
time-bound  manner.  The 
operationalization of the Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-
Ban  Treaty and  the  early  conclusion  of  a  fissile 
materials  cut-off  treaty  should  be  our  priority.  We 
support  efforts  for  the  non-proliferation  of  small  arms 
and light weapons. 

We welcome the signing in April this year of the 
New  START  treaty  between  the  United  States  and  the 
Russian  Federation  on  strategic  offensive  arms.  We 
welcome  the  successful  outcome  of  the  2010  Review 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons.  However,  we 
call for reinvigorating the Conference on Disarmament 
as  a  multilateral  body, 
to  start  discussions  on 
substantive issues. We also appreciate the efforts of the 
Secretary-General  to  advance  nuclear  disarmament  on 
the basis of the five-point action plan he has proposed. 

Nepal strongly believes that regional mechanisms 
complement efforts to promote the global disarmament 
agenda. The United Nations Regional Centre for Peace 
and Disarmament in Asia and the Pacific, which we are 
proud  to  host,  must  be  strengthened  in  order  to 
revitalize the Kathmandu process to facilitate dialogue 
and deliberations on confidence-building in the region. 
In  today’s  world,  devastating  conflicts  are  a 

constant 
international  security.  Despite 
progress  on  many  fronts,  violence  and  civil  wars 
threat 
to 
the 
10-55128 

51 
A/65/PV.20 

continue  unabated.  It  is  a  matter  of  concern  that 
intra-State  conflicts  and  extremism  have  steadily 
grown over the years. We should work collectively. In 
accordance  with  the  principles  and  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  we  should  all  contribute  to  resolving 
such conflicts through peaceful means and should help 
stabilize situations through peacebuilding efforts. 

In  the  Middle  East,  we  are  encouraged  by  the 
recent  direct  dialogue  between  the  Israelis  and  the 
Palestinians.  We  look  forward  to  the  success  of  the 
dialogue  leading  towards  an  independent  Palestinian 
State alongside a secure Israel. We would like to see a 
peaceful resolution to disputes in the Korean peninsula 
through dialogue. 

Terrorism  is  a  threat  to  all  and  knows  no 
geographical  boundary.  We  unequivocally  condemn 
terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations  and  call 
for resolute international  actions to fight it. Nepal has 
been implementing the United Nations Global Counter-
Terrorism  Strategy  and  is  party  to  the  South  Asian 
Association 
for  Regional  Cooperation  Regional 
Convention  on  Suppression  of  Terrorism  of  1987  and 
its Additional Protocol. 

Legitimacy, universality and common ideals have 
been  the  defining  features  of  the  United  Nations. 
Continued  adherence 
its  core  principles  and 
purposes  will  reinforce  sovereign  equality,  territorial 
integrity,  non-interference  and  the  peaceful  settlement 
of  disputes.  The  inspiring  values  and  the  lofty  ideals 
that  underpin  the  United  Nations  Charter  remain  as 
relevant as ever. 
We  live  in  an  era  of  continuous  change.  The 

economic 
the 
emergence  of  new,  yet  vibrant,  poles  of  growth. 
Globalization  has  changed  the  pattern  of  economic 
relations,  although  its  benefits  are  not  widely  and 
equitably distributed. 

The  effectiveness  of  the  United  Nations  depends 
on  our  collective  will  to  act  and  to  deal  with  global 
issues  resolutely.  In  the  face  of  new  and  emerging 
challenges,  it  is  urgent  that  the  ideals  of  the  United 
Nations  be  translated  into  action  effectively  and  in  a 
coherent  manner.  The  theme  of  this  year’s  general 
debate  —  “Reaffirming  the  central  role  of  the  United 
Nations 
that 
essence. 
in  global  governance”  —  captures 
is  also  changing  with 
landscape 
to 

is 

We underline the centrality of the United Nations 
not only in maintaining peace and security, but also in 
promoting  international  cooperation  for  development. 
Its  role  in  shaping  policy  debate  on  and  establishing 
global norms for economic and financial matters must 
not be sidelined. The reform agenda needs to strike the 
right balance to promote stability in the broadest sense. 
Just  as  security  and  peace  are  critical  for 
the 
international  community,  so 
the  development 
agenda. It must be given a focused priority within the 
United Nations system. 

United  Nations  reform  should  be  pursued  in  a 
systematic  and  holistic  manner  to  further  enhance  the 
Organization’s global standing.  

The realities of the contemporary world call for a 
change in the composition and working methods of the 
Security  Council.  We  support 
the  expansion  of 
membership in the Council in both categories to reflect 
the  current  realities  of  the  world.  We  also  call  for 
transparency  in  its  working  methods.  We  welcome 
recent  efforts  to  structure  the  debates  with  a  view  to 
starting  negotiations  by  taking  into  account  the  views 
of all Member States. 

We  welcome  the  ongoing  discussions  on  the 
revitalization of the General Assembly in the context of 
the  balance  between  the  various  organs  of  the  United 
Nations, as envisioned by the founders. The role of the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  must  be  enhanced  in 
promoting global economic relations and in advancing 
the development agenda, in close cooperation with the 
Bretton  Woods 
relevant 
institutions. The Development Cooperation Forum and 
the annual ministerial review are a welcome change in 
that body. 
We  need  to  make  the  United  Nations  more 

effective in ensuring coherence and consistency in the 
global  economic,  financial  and  trading  systems.  We 
call  for  special  support  for  counter-cyclical  measures, 
social  safety  nets  to  protect  the  vulnerable,  and  fiscal 
space  to  mitigate  the  crisis. We  should  make  all  these 
steps particularly responsive to the needs and concerns 
of vulnerable countries, such as LDCs. 
Nepal welcomes the adoption of the resolution on 

system-wide coherence by the General Assembly at its 
sixty-fourth  session,  with  a  view  to  strengthening  and 
streamlining  the  operational  activities  of  the  United 
Nations 
the  field  of  development  (resolution 
64/289).  We  also  welcome  and  strongly  support  the 
institutions  and  other 
in 
52 

10-55128 
to 
in  United  Nations 


establishment  of  UN Women  as  a  single  consolidated 
entity to deal with issues pertaining to gender equality 
and the empowerment of women. 
Global peace and stability are our cherished goal. 

Guided  by 
that  principled  objective,  Nepal  has 
extended  unflinching  support  to  all  major  United 
Nations initiatives for the maintenance of international 
peace  and  security  through  its  active  and  consistent 
participation 
peacekeeping 
operations  around  the  world.  In  2008,  we  celebrated 
the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  our  association  with  United 
Nations peacekeeping operations with a view to further 
consolidating  our  contributions 
the  cause  of 
international  peace  and  security.  Today,  more  than 
5,000  Nepalese  peacekeepers  work  in  13  different 
peacekeeping  missions  around  the  world.  Nepal’s 
involvement  in  United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions 
has  been  one  of  the  remarkable  features  of  its 
international  engagement.  We  continue  to  participate 
with dedication. 
In  line  with  our  solemn  commitment  to  the 

United  Nations  Charter  and  our  contribution 
to 
promoting its ideals, I have the pleasure of announcing 
at this Assembly that the Government of Nepal has put 
forward  the  candidacy  of  Mr.  Kul  Chandra  Gautam, 
adviser  to  the  Prime  Minister  of  Nepal  on  the  peace 
process and international affairs, for the presidency of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session. 

the  number  of 
peacekeeping  missions  is  an  indicator  of  the  sombre 
fact that the number of conflicts around the world has 
increased  in  recent  years.  The  sustainable  way  to 
resolve  conflicts  is  to  look  at  them  comprehensively 
and remove the factors that generate and sustain them. 

Nepal’s  commitment to human rights is resolute. 
We  are  party  to  major  international  human  rights 
instruments. We are fully aware that the protection and 
promotion  of  all  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms  strengthen  the  sustainability  of  peace  and 
progress. The National Human Rights Commission, an 
independent  judiciary,  a  vibrant  civil  society  and  the 
media  have  all  played  an  important  role  in  promoting 
awareness and protecting human rights in Nepal. 

Our fellow South Asian country Pakistan recently 
suffered  tragic  loss  of  lives  and  destruction  due  to 
unprecedented  floods.  Similarly,  fellow  LDC  Haiti 
faced  a  devastating  earthquake.  Those  disasters  have 
wiped out hard-earned gains, and therefore we call for 
The  gradual 
increase 
in 
A/65/PV.20
is  a 
My  country,  which 
full  sympathy  and  support  to  them  in  their  hour  of 
need. 

Climate change has become a challenge to human 
existence,  a  multidimensional  threat  to  human  lives 
and all living things, the global ecosystem and human 
civilization.  It  has  a  direct  impact  on  our  efforts  to 
eradicate  poverty  and  hunger  and  to  preserve  the 
ecological balance. 

least  developed 
landlocked country with mountainous terrain, is highly 
vulnerable  to  climate  change.  The  Himalayas  remain 
the  perennial  source  of  freshwater  for  over  a  billion 
people  living  in  South  Asia.  Global  warming  has 
precipitated  the  melting  of  snow  in  the  Nepalese 
Himalayas,  and  about  two  dozen  of  our  glacial  lakes 
could burst their banks any time, causing a huge loss of 
lives and property. Moreover, we face extreme weather 
events,  floods,  soil  degradation  and  desertification. 
Because  of  their  fragility,  mountain  countries  face 
special vulnerability to climate change. 

Countries  like  Nepal  contribute  the  least  to 
climate change, yet we bear a disproportionate impact, 
and it is the poor and vulnerable people among us who 
face  its  severe  effects.  We  cannot  wait  for  action 
forever.  At 
level,  we  are  pursuing 
afforestation  programmes  and  promoting  the  use  of 
alternative  sources  of  energy,  as  well  as  hydropower 
generation. 
There  is  an  urgent  need  to  make  progress  on 

climate  negotiations 
through  an  ambitious  and 
comprehensive  outcome  in  Cancún,  Mexico,  later  this 
year.  The  international  community  should  agree  on 
substantially 
new,  predictable, 
enhanced 
fast-track 
for  mitigation, 
provision 
adaptation,  technology  transfer,  reducing  emissions 
from  deforestation  and  degradation  —  REDD-Plus — 
and capacity-building in the least developed countries. 
LDCs  must  be  given  priority  so  that  they  may 
withstand  the  sweeping  impact  of  climate  change  on 
their people’s livelihoods. 

International  responses  to  the  special  needs  and 
concerns  of  LDCs  have  had  limited  success.  The 
implementation  of  the  Brussels  Programme  of  Action 
has  produced  mixed  results.  The  overall  performance 
of  LDCs  in  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and 
other  internationally  agreed  development  goals  stands 
well  below  their  expectations,  despite  some  progress. 
resource  mobilization  and  a 
to 
the  national 
transparent 
resources 
and 
ensure 
10-55128 

53 
of 
heavy 
and 
reliance 
balanced, 
ambitious, 
industrialization, 
scaled-up  global  partnership 
A/65/PV.20 

That is primarily because we continue to face structural 
handicaps and constraints, as well as a critical resource 
gap in our development efforts. 

Mutually  reinforcing  and  exacerbating  food, 
energy,  economic  and  financial  crises,  together  with 
the  adverse  and  disproportionate  impacts  of  climate 
change, have further worsened the conditions of LDCs. 
Limited  economic  activity,  stagnant  growth,  the  early 
stage 
on 
subsistence agriculture as the mainstay of the national 
economy  and  a  lack  of  employment  opportunities  in 
other  sectors  have  made  poor  countries  highly 
vulnerable to external shocks. 
Such  challenges  cannot  be  overcome  without  a 

renewed 
for 
development.  The  fulfilment  of  all  commitments  to 
official  development  assistance 
in  a  predictable, 
transparent  and  accountable  manner,  the  enhanced 
provision of duty- and quota-free market access for all 
LDCs,  and  the  early  conclusion  of  the  Doha  Round 
with 
and 
development-oriented  outcome  and  early  results  in 
provisions aimed at LDCs will help generate economic 
growth  through  equitable  trade.  Enhanced  debt  relief 
measures,  an 
foreign  direct 
investment,  technology  transfer  and  investment  in 
building 
long-term  productive  capacity  will  be 
critically important in order to ensure resources for the 
financing of sustainable development in LDCs. 

The  United  Nations  will  host  the  fourth  United 
Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries 
in Istanbul next year. The Conference must aim to have 
an  ambitious,  comprehensive,  forward-looking  and 
results-oriented  outcome.  As  the  Chair  of  the  LDC 
Coordinating  Bureau,  I  call  upon  the  international 
community  to  make  the  Istanbul  outcome  a  turning 
point  in  addressing  the  multidimensional  challenges 
and  constraints  that  LDCs  face  today.  The  success  of 
the Conference will be measured by its contributions to 
making a difference in the conditions of the millions of 
poor in our countries. 

Nepal is also a landlocked country. Therefore, our 
development  challenges  are  further  compounded  by 
that 
the  cost  of  our 
international  trade  substantially.  Therefore,  specific 
support  measures  to  improve  infrastructure  and  trade 
facilitation  in  line  with  the  Almaty  Programme  of 
reality,  which 
increased 
increases 
equitable 
flow  of 
an 

of 
From  a 
assemblies.  The  Assembly 
the  Constituent  Assembly 
Action  for  landlocked  developing  countries  will  be 
critical to promoting their development needs. 

I will now touch on the political situation and the 
ongoing peace process in my country. Nepal is passing 
through  the  arduous  transition  from  a  10-year  conflict 
to  sustainable  peace  and  stability  with  a  nationally 
driven peace process. We have come a long way since 
June 2006, when the peace process started, with some 
ups  and  downs,  which  is  only  natural  for  a  complex 
peace  process. Yet  our  national  determination  remains 
strong and unwavering, and we are fully committed to 
bringing  the  ongoing  peace  process  to  a  meaningful 
conclusion by resolving all outstanding issues. 

longer-term  perspective,  Nepal  has 
achieved  some  remarkable  progress  since  the  signing 
of  the  Comprehensive  Peace Accord  on  21  November 
2006. The promulgation of the interim constitution, the 
election 
and, 
subsequently,  the  declaration  of  Nepal  as  a  federal 
democratic republic stand as notable achievements. 

Today, the 601-member Constituent Assembly of 
Nepal, a third of whom are women, is one of the most 
inclusive 
comprises 
representation  from  different  ethnic  groups,  backward 
regions  and  traditionally  marginalized  communities, 
among others. 
Historic  and  unique  as  it  is,  Nepal’s  peace 

process is not confined only to the issue of signing the 
Peace  Accord  and  the  elections  to  the  Constituent 
Assembly.  The  next  important  task  is  to  write  a  new 
constitution  for  the  newly  born  republic.  That  will 
consolidate 
in 
establishing 
real  source  of 
sovereignty  and  State  authority  and  in  guaranteeing 
multiparty democracy, human rights, a federal structure 
and 
the  process 
encompasses  a  much  broader  agenda,  leading  towards 
the  historic 
transformation  of  Nepal’s  political, 
economic and social structure. 
The people of Nepal nurture the hope of a better 

future,  which 
deserve.  Political 
transformation  needs  to  be  complemented  by  social 
transformation 
economic  prosperity.  While 
ensuring  political  stability,  we  are  making  efforts  to 
revive  the  economy  with  new  and  focused  initiatives 
for  the  acceleration  of  economic  activities,  including 
through the celebration of Nepal Tourism Year in 2011. 
We hope that visitors will enjoy the flora and fauna of 
the  gains  made  over 
the  people  as 
inclusive  governance.  Therefore, 
the  years 
rightly 
they 
and 
the 
54 

10-55128 
four  months,  under 
We  anticipate  accomplishing 
Recently  we  have  made  some  progress 


Nepal,  including  tours  to  Lumbini  in  Nepal,  the 
birthplace  of  Lord  Buddha.  To  that  end  and  to 
revitalize and accelerate our economy, we look forward 
to ambitious recovery measures with support from the 
international community. 

in 
addressing  the  core  issues  of  the  integration  and 
rehabilitation of the former Maoist combatants. In that 
context, I am pleased to inform the Assembly that the 
Government  and  the  Unified  Communist  Party  of 
Nepal-Maoist  have  agreed  to  complete  the  process 
within 
the  monitoring  and 
supervision  of  the  Special  Committee,  formed  on  the 
basis of national consensus, as per the Constitution. 

the  outstanding 
basic tasks in the peace process within the coming four 
months,  with  the  positive  contributions  of  national 
stakeholders  and  the  goodwill  and  support  of  the 
international  community.  Earlier  this  year,  we  also 
achieved  remarkable  success,  with  the  help  of  the 
United  Nations,  in  releasing  the  disqualified  minors 
living in cantonments, based on the action plan signed 
on 16 December 2009. 

The  United  Nations  Mission  in  Nepal  has  been 
involved in support of Nepal’s nationally driven peace 
process.  We  express  our  appreciation  to  the  United 
Nations for its consistent support of our peace process. 

the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  is  total  and 
unflinching.  For  us,  the  United  Nations  is  the  best 
expression  of  multilateralism.  It  has  served 
the 
international  community  in  the  past  and  continues  to 
work as a linchpin of international relationships today. 
We have no doubt as to its indispensability. 

However,  it  needs  to  do  more  in  this  globalized 
world.  Global  problems  require  global  solutions. That 
is  possible  only  through  multilateralism,  based  on 
inclusiveness and equity. We look for an enhanced and 
coherent role of the United Nations in dealing with all 
global  issues,  but  in  particular  those  that  affect  the 
lives and livelihoods of the poor around the world. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Kalombo  Mwansa,  Minister  of 
Defence of the Republic of Zambia. 
Mr.  Mwansa  (Zambia):  I  stand  before  this 

Assembly  as  an  envoy  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Rupiah 
Bwezani Banda, President of the Republic of Zambia. 
Nepal’s  commitment 
to 
A/65/PV.20
is 
is 
felt 
international 
This  session 

Zambia  wishes  to  align  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered  by  His  Excellency  Ngwazi  Professor  Bingu 
Wa  Mutharika,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Malawi 
and current Chairperson of the African Union. 

taking  place  amid  global 
challenges such as climate change, loss of biodiversity, 
environmental  degradation, 
terrorism, 
piracy, HIV/AIDS, extreme poverty and hunger, among 
others.  It  is  an  occasion  for  all  Member  States  to 
collectively  engage  in  dialogue  aimed  at  finding 
solutions  to  the  challenges  that  our  countries  are 
facing,  in  order  to  contribute  to  the  socio-economic 
development and well-being of our people. 

The Assembly’s theme this year is appropriate, as 
it  provides  an  opportunity  to  reaffirm  the  central  role 
of the United Nations in global governance. The role of 
the  United  Nations 
in  areas  such  as 
peacekeeping, security, human rights, the promotion of 
gender  equality  and  the  fight  for  social  justice  and 
equality. However, emerging global challenges, such as 
the recent financial and economic crisis, also call for a 
greater role for the United Nations in global economic 
governance. In that regard, our Government would like 
to see a strengthening and enhancing of capacity in the 
United Nations to enable it to deal with some of those 
challenges. 

Allow  me  to  express  Zambia’s  gratitude  to  the 
Secretary-General  for  organizing  the  important  high-
level meetings that preceded the general debate. 

the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  provided  an  opportunity 
for  the  international  community  to  take  stock  of 
existing  gaps  and 
the 
attainment  of  the  MDGs. At  that  meeting  I  elaborated 
on  the  progress  Zambia  has  made  and  the  challenges 
we continue to face in our efforts to attain the MDGs. 
In  spite  of 
the 
macroeconomic  environment  and  putting  in  place 
development  frameworks,  the  incidence  of  poverty  in 
my  country  remains  high,  partly  because  our  efforts 
alone are not enough. I therefore wish to reiterate calls 
to  the  international  cooperating  partners  to  honour  all 
of  their  commitments  to  ensure  that  the  2015  targets 
are realized. 

Let  me  also  add  that  the  measures  that  the 
Zambian Government has adopted to address the issue 
of  hunger  and  poverty  include  devising  agricultural 
farming 
sector  policies 
that  enable  smallholder 
the  strides  made 
the  challenges 
in 
improving 
faced 
in 
review 
The 
summit 
to 
10-55128 

55 
investing 
including  Zambia, 
A/65/PV.20 

households  to  improve  their  productivity.  In  that 
connection,  this  year  Zambia  has  recorded  a  bumper 
harvest  of  maize,  which  is  our  main  food  crop.  That 
will  ensure  food  security  and  increased  incomes  for 
smallholder farmers, who constitute the majority of the 
farming community. 

We are mindful, however, of the fact that climate 
change, as evidenced by persistent periods of droughts 
and  floods  in  our  countries,  poses  one  of  the  most 
serious  threats  to  the  agricultural  sector  and  thus  to 
overall food production. While as a Government we are 
doing  everything  possible,  such  as 
in 
agricultural research and irrigation methods, the debate 
on climate change should not lose sight of the need to 
assist  developing  countries, 
in 
building  capacities  to  adapt  in  order  to  mitigate 
negative  impacts  on  the  agricultural  sector.  Without 
those, poverty and hunger will persist in my country. 

Zambia  shares  the  concerns  of  the  Secretary-
General  regarding  current  global  resource  loss  and 
ecosystem  degradation.  It  is  important  that  mankind 
reverse the ongoing trends of natural resource loss and 
ecosystem  degradation  as  a  commitment  to  protect 
biodiversity.  That  will  be  achieved  only 
if  all 
stakeholders  step  up  their  efforts  and  meet  the  MDGs 
and other internationally agreed development goals. 

positive 
developments that have occurred in the past year in the 
area  of  arms  control  and  disarmament.  The  Security 
Council’s  convening  of  a 
to  address 
disarmament  issues,  the  Secretary-General’s  launch  of 
a  five-point  nuclear  disarmament  proposal,  the  entry 
into  force  of  treaties  establishing  nuclear-weapon-free 
zones in Central Asia and Africa, and the convening of 
a 
to  discuss  nuclear 
disarmament and non-proliferation, among others, must 
indeed  be  commended.  We  hope  those  efforts  and  the 
momentum generated will be sustained and will lead to 
the  resolution  of  all  outstanding  issues  in  the  area  of 
disarmament. 

Zambia, however, continues to face difficulties in 
controlling the inflow of small arms and light weapons. 
The  illicit  trade  in  small  arms  threatens  security  and 
retards  social  and  economic  development 
in  our 
country. Zambia therefore calls for the establishment of 
a strong and legally binding international instrument on 
the  arms  trade.  We  strongly  support  the  convening  of 
the  United  Nations  conference  in  2012  to  establish 
delegation  welcomes 
in  Washington 
summit 
summit 
My 
the 

that 
role 
that  women  play 
The  Government  of  Zambia  recognizes 
legally binding common international standards for the 
import, export and transfer of conventional arms, with 
specific measures against defaulters. 

On  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations,  in  particular 
the Security Council, Zambia reaffirms its support for the 
African position, as espoused in the Ezulwini Consensus 
and  the Sirte Declaration, that Africa  should  be  granted, 
among others, not less than two permanent seats, with all 
of  the  prerogatives  and  privileges  including  the  right  of 
veto,  and  two  additional  non-permanent  seats. Africa  is 
the only continent without permanent seats, and yet it has 
the  second  largest  membership  of  the  United  Nations. 
Granting  Africa  permanent  seats  will  redress 
that 
historical injustice. 
the 

in  attaining 
important 
development.  Furthermore,  we  recognize 
the 
empowerment  of  women  and  their  inclusion  in  the 
decision-making  process  have  enhanced  their  role  in 
development.  That  is  why  Zambia  has  integrated 
women  of  all  sectors  of  society  in  decision-making 
positions, and we are committed to doing even more. 
Our  Government  welcomes  the  establishment  of 

UN Women,  the  United  Nations  Entity  for  Gender 
Equality  and  the  Empowerment  of  Women,  and  the 
appointment  of  Ms.  Michelle  Bachelet,  the  former 
President  of  Chile,  to  head  it.  It  is  our  hope  that  the 
new Entity will have a strong and effective presence at 
country  level  and  will  help  Member  States  implement 
standards and will provide them with the much-needed 
financial  and  technical  support  required  to  achieve 
women’s empowerment, equality and equity. 

As  the  Assembly  is  aware,  Zambia  has  been 
hosting refugees prior to and since its independence in 
1964  and  is  party  to  all  refugee  conventions.  My 
country was among the first on the African continent to 
host  a  refugee  camp.  Zambia  is  committed  to  hosting 
refugees,  and  our  experience  has  demonstrated  that 
voluntary  repatriation 
is  a  desirable  and  durable 
solution.  However,  as  an  under-resourced  and  least 
is  a  major 
developed  country,  hosting  refugees 
challenge 
the 
international community to provide financial assistance 
to enable us to discharge that responsibility through the 
provision of minimum standards of care. 

In addition to the question  of refugees, the issue 
of internally displaced persons, which has continued to 
increase  worldwide,  especially  in Africa,  equally  calls 
therefore  call  upon 
for  us.  We 
56 

10-55128 


for  our  attention.  The  adoption  by  the  African  Union 
last  year  of  the  Convention  for  the  Protection  and 
Assistance of Internally Displaced Persons in Africa is 
an important landmark that requires the support of the 
international community at large. 

The sanctions imposed on Zimbabwe continue to 
cause great suffering to the people of that country and 
to the southern Africa region as a whole. Similarly, the 
embargo  that  the  United  States  has  imposed  on  Cuba, 
which  the  United  Nations  has  condemned  through 
numerous  General  Assembly  resolutions,  has  caused 
untold hardship to the people of Cuba. Zambia calls on 
this body to ensure that the sanctions on Zimbabwe and 
the United States embargo on Cuba are lifted. 

democratic 
governance, Zambia is in the process of enacting a new  

consolidate 
an 
In 
effort 
to 
A/65/PV.20
constitution.  The  National  Constitutional  Conference 
that  was  established  to  oversee  the  process  concluded 
its  work  and  submitted  a  draft  constitution,  which 
awaits tabling before Parliament. As the Assembly may 
be  aware,  Zambia  will  hold  presidential  and  general 
elections in 2011. As in the past, international election 
observers,  including  those  from  the  United  Nations, 
will be invited. 

As we reaffirm the role of the United Nations in 
global governance, let us not be complacent in the face 
of  great  suffering  and  hardship  in  our  world.  Let  that 
be the force that drives us to action, where all nations 
will work together in meeting the goals and aspirations 
of our peoples. 


  The meeting rose at 9 p.m. 
10-55128 

57 
