
A/65/PV.21
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

21st plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 28 September 2010, 9 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 
indicates in no uncertain terms the progress the United 
Nations  has  made  under  his  leadership  and  guidance, 
for which Malta is extremely grateful. 

During  the  past  12  months,  the  international 
community  has  been  overwhelmed  by  the  global  and 
financial  crises.  The  crises  have  been  exacerbated  by 
many humanitarian tragedies around the world. Natural 
disasters, terrorist attacks, armed violence and internal 
conflicts have continued to produce havoc, destruction, 
loss  of  life  and  the  increased  forced  displacement  of 
people  worldwide.  In  the  face  of  these  negative 
realities,  our  Organization  has  continued  to  be  the 
refuge  of  the  most  vulnerable  and  deprived  of  our 
societies, to address increasing inequalities, to respond 
cohesively and rapidly to disasters and calamities, and 
to seek to improve the very nature of the existence and 
survival  of  humankind.  It  is  an  accepted  norm  that 
there  is  no  development  without  security,  no  security 
without  development,  and  neither  without  respect  for 
human rights. 
Important  achievements  have  been  registered  in 

recent  months 
the  area  of  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation. The new Treaty on Measures for the 
Further  Reduction  and  Limitation  of  Strategic 
Offensive Arms, designed to replace the 1991 START I 
agreement  and  signed  in  Prague  in  April  by  the 
Presidents  of  the  United  States  and  the  Russian 
Federation, created the appropriate political momentum 
for  preparing  the  way  for  a  successful  outcome  to  the 
2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on 
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). 
in 





  The meeting was called to order at 9 a.m. 


Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor to His Excellency Mr. Tonio Borg, Deputy Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Republic of Malta. 
Mr. Borg (Malta): Mr. President, I would like to 

join  other  delegations  that  have  preceded  me  in 
offering my congratulations and those of my delegation 
on your election as President of the General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-fifth  session.  I  am  convinced  that  your 
political experience and diplomatic skill will assist and 
guide  this Assembly  in  its  deliberations,  especially  in 
addressing 
the 
international agenda. 

I  also  congratulate  your  predecessor,  Mr.  Ali 
Abdussalam  Treki,  for  the  excellent  manner  in  which 
he  presided  over  the  sixty-fourth  session  of  the 
Assembly.  Through  his  commitment  and  leadership 
role,  Mr.  Treki  successfully  guided  the  Assembly  in 
dealing  effectively  with  a  number  of  priority  issues 
facing our Organization. 

I also take this opportunity to express our sincere 
appreciation to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his 
dedication  and  untiring  efforts  to  ensure  that  our 
Organization lives up to the purposes and principles of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  His  comprehensive 
report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization  (A/65/1) 
important  and  critical 
issues  on 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-55264 (E) 
*1055264* 

the  Secretary-General, 
the  NPT  States  parties  of 
A/65/PV.21 


Malta  is  particularly  pleased  that  among  the 
agreed  actions  taken  by  the  Conference  was  the 
endorsement  by 
the 
the  Russian 
convening  by 
Federation, the United Kingdom and the United States, 
in  consultation  with  the  countries  of  the  region,  of  a 
conference in 2012 to address the establishment in the 
Middle  East  of  a  zone  free  of  nuclear  and  all  other 
weapons of mass destruction. 

The  General  Assembly’s  resolutions  recognize 
that positive developments worldwide, but particularly 
in  Europe,  the  Maghreb  and  the  Middle  East,  can  be 
enhanced by closer Euro-Mediterranean cooperation in 
all  spheres.  Thirty-five  years  ago,  on  1  August  1975, 
the  Conference  on  Security  and  Cooperation 
in 
Europe —  now  the  Organization  for  Security  and 
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) — meeting in Helsinki, 
Finland,  adopted  the  Final  Act,  incorporating  an 
important  chapter  dedicated  exclusively 
the 
Mediterranean  that  affirmed,  among  other  things,  that 
security  in  the  Mediterranean  is  closely  linked  to 
European security, as well as to international peace and 
security. 

Malta,  a  European  country  but  nonetheless 
Mediterranean,  has  worked  for  many  years,  and  even 
since  becoming  a  Member  of 
this  Organization, 
towards  a  Euro  Mediterranean  foreign  policy  that 
embraces  confidence-  and  security-building  initiatives 
that further enhance dialogue and understanding in our 
region.  Indeed,  my  country  has  been  present  at  the 
creation  of  all  the  Mediterranean  forums  in  existence 
today. Through its membership of the European Union, 
Malta  has  solidified  these  efforts  in  a  manner  that 
promotes  the  ever-increasing  connectedness  of  the 
European-Mediterranean partnership. 

the  European 
Commission-League  of  Arab  States  Liaison  Office, 
which  has  formalized  relations  between  the  European 
Commission  and  the  Arab  world  in  a  way  that  has 
never  been  done  before.  Indeed,  Malta  has  translated 
its character as an interlocutor with a European identity 
and  Mediterranean  characteristics  into  the  role  of  a 
political  and  cultural  bridge  to  our  neighbours  to  the 
North and South, and even beyond. 

the  Mediterranean 
dimension does not stop there. Malta continues to seize 
every opportunity to contribute further to this dialogue 
of partners. This has certainly been the case within the 
But  our  commitment 
Today,  Malta 
is 
the  host  of 
to 

to 
Union  for  the  Mediterranean,  where  Malta  has  played 
an active part in ensuring that the requisite momentum 
is  maintained  despite  occasional  political  hurdles.  In 
the institutional domain, Malta has nominated a Deputy 
Secretary-General,  an  honour  accorded  to  six  Union 
members.  The  Maltese  Deputy  Secretary-General  has 
been  entrusted  with  the  portfolio  covering  social  and 
civil affairs, an area undoubtedly of vital interest to all 
Union partners. 

Next  month,  Malta  will  host  the  Mediterranean 
Conference  of  the  Organization  for  Security  and 
Cooperation  in  Europe,  which  will  address,  from  a 
Mediterranean  perspective, 
issues  currently  being 
debated within the OSCE in the dialogue on the future 
of European security. On 8 and 9 November, Malta will 
be  the  venue  for  the  first  regional  conference  for  the 
Mediterranean  of  the  United  Nations  Alliance  of 
Civilizations.  The  regional  conference  is  expected  to 
adopt  a  strategy  document  and  an  action  plan 
expressing the commitment of the Group of Friends of 
the Alliance to advancing goals in concrete terms in a 
region  where  intercultural  dialogue  and  cooperation 
have great potential for success in overcoming the big 
challenges the region faces. 

In  the  first  half  of  2011  Malta,  a  member  of  the 
Western  Mediterranean  Forum  since  1991,  intends  to 
host  the  second  Summit  of  Heads  of  State  and 
Government  of  the  Forum,  known  as  the  5+5.  The 
convening  of  the  Summit,  the  second  of  its  kind  in 
seven  years,  should,  among  other  purposes,  serve  to 
reaffirm  the  relevance  of  the  5+5  dialogue  in  the 
current  context.  Malta  continues  to  attach  great  value 
to this informal mechanism as a platform for open and 
frank discussion between North and South. 

It  is  also  of  satisfaction  to  record  the  successful 
first  joint  International  Meeting  in  Support  of  Israeli-
Palestinian  Peace,  held  in  Malta  last  February,  and 
organized  by  the  United  Nations  Committee  on  the 
Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights  of  the  Palestinian 
People  and 
the 
Mediterranean.  In 
to 
recognize the importance of resolution 64/124, adopted 
by the General Assembly in December  2009, whereby 
the  Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the  Mediterranean, 
whose seat is in Malta, was granted observer status and 
invited  to  participate  in  the  sessions  and  work  of  the 
General Assembly. 
the  Parliamentary  Assembly  of 
like 
this  context  I  would 
2 

10-55264 
to 
of 
contribution 
the  United 


That  brings  me  to  an  issue  that  closely  involves 

the  Mediterranean  region.  I  am  referring 
the 
situation  in  the  Middle  East,  with  the  Palestinian 
question at its core. Malta joins other Member States in 
welcoming  the  decision  reached  last  month  between 
the  Israelis  and  the  Palestinians  to  resume  direct 
negotiations to resolve all permanent status issues. The 
launching  of  direct  negotiations  on  2  September  in 
Washington,  D.C.,  followed  by  the  Sharm  el-Sheikh 
and  Jerusalem  meetings,  has  renewed  the  sense  of 
urgency  and  expectation  for  the  resolution  of  an  issue 
that has been on the international agenda for these last 
62  years.  The  intense  and  unstinting  efforts  made 
during  these  past  few  months  by  the  Quartet,  the 
Secretary-General and the Arab League, as well as the 
Israelis and Palestinians themselves, in addition to the 
valuable 
States 
Administration,  have  opened  new  possibilities  for  the 
emergence  of  an  independent,  democratic  and  viable 
Palestinian  State  living  side  by  side  in  peace  and 
security  with  Israel. As  a  member  of  the  international 
community, Malta will continue to play its part within 
the  United  Nations,  the  European  Union  and  other 
international,  regional  and  subregional  forums 
to 
support  the  creation  of  the  right  conditions  for  all 
peoples  of  the  Mediterranean  and  the  Middle  East  to 
live in peace and prosperity. 

This  year  has  brought  us  stark  reminders  of  the 
devastation  and  loss  of  life  that  we  can  expect  from 
climate  change  if  it  continues  unabated.  Yet,  despite 
such warnings, the international community has yet to 
adopt  a  sufficiently  ambitious  response  strategy  that 
would  bind  us  all  to  contributing  fairly  to  mitigating 
climate  change,  keeping  it  within  manageable  limits. 
Important  steps  have  indeed  been  taken  over  the  past 
two  decades,  but  the  great  expectations  of  a  decisive 
push  forward  in  Copenhagen  last  year  were  not 
realized.  Nevertheless,  we  must  persevere  on  the  road 
ahead  — 
than 
dramatically. Copenhagen did produce several seeds of 
agreement 
in 
December,  where  operational  decisions  could  advance 
action  on  several  fronts  of  broad  interest  to  Member 
States. 

Integrating the expected climatic impacts into our 
vision  of  the  future  is  in  fact  a  requirement  for  all  of 
us,  large  and  small. Yet  the  topic  often  lingers  on  the 
sidelines of policymaking. We must give adaptation the 
political and economic attention it deserves and ensure 
that  can  be  harvested 
perhaps  more 
pragmatically 
in  Cancún 
A/65/PV.21
well-targeted  financial  support  to  vulnerable  countries 
or communities most in need of it. I would also like to 
underline 
the  potential  of  cooperative  action  on 
adaptation  at  regional  levels,  and  it  is  in  this  context 
that  Malta  is  supporting  the  Mediterranean  Climate 
Change  Initiative  announced  by  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Greece. 

The  protection  of  the  human  being  continues  to 
constitute a top priority for my country. In this regard, 
we  have  witnessed  during  the  past  year  important 
developments  within  the  United  Nations  that  will 
significantly contribute to delivering results for a more 
just  world  and  to  putting  system-wide  coherence  into 
practice.  We  note 
the  progress,  small  but  most 
welcome,  on  the  discussion  on  the  responsibility  to 
protect. It will be recalled that five years ago, the 2005 
World Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1) called for an 
expansion  of  the  United  Nations  capabilities  for  early 
warning  and  assessment  of  possible  genocide,  war 
crimes,  ethnic  cleansing  and  crimes  against  humanity, 
in addition to supporting the establishment of an early 
warning  capability.  Malta  therefore  highly  commends 
the  interactive  dialogue  that  took  place  in  July  and 
commends the initiative of the Secretary-General to set 
up  a  United  Nations  joint  office  to  deal  with  the 
prevention  of  genocide  and  the  wider  range  of  crimes 
and violations covered by the responsibility to protect. 

Another  important  development  has  been  the 
United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  against 
Trafficking  in  Persons  (see  resolution  64/293,  annex). 
Still  another  aspect  of  human 
the 
smuggling  of  human  beings.  The  phenomenon  of 
illegal  immigration,  stoked  by  the  greed  and  callous 
operations  of  organized  criminal  groups 
the 
Mediterranean,  is  putting  at  risk  the  lives  of  hundreds 
of  immigrants  on  the  threshold  of  Europe.  Malta  has 
for  some  years  now  been  a  country  of  destination, 
attracting 
illegal 
immigrants  and  asylum-seekers.  Malta’s  need  for 
assistance  in  providing  beneficiaries  of  international 
protection with a durable solution has been recognized 
by  many.  While  Malta  affirms  its  commitment  to 
abiding  by  its  international  obligations,  at  the  same 
time  we  reiterate  our  calls  on 
international 
community  to  continue  to  assist  us  in  the  process  of 
resettling these unfortunate people. 

While  not  new  phenomena,  piracy  and  armed 
robbery at sea against vessels continue to be an issue of 
grave  concern  for  international  navigation  and  the 
a  disproportionate 
influx  of 
trafficking 
the 
in 
is 
10-55264 

3 

A/65/PV.21 

safety of commercial maritime routes. Malta, as one of 
the  leading  flag  States  in  the  world,  is  very  much 
concerned  about  the  increase  in  the  frequency  and 
ferocity  of  pirate  attacks  on  merchant  ships  off  the 
coast of Somalia. It is to address that concern that we 
intend  to  promote  a  debate  within  the  international 
community on new issues, such as piracy, in the sphere 
of the law of the sea which have cropped up since the 
adoption of the United Nations Convention on the Law 
of the Sea in 1982. 

We  intend  to  launch  a  fresh  and  constructive 
debate  among  like-minded  States  on  the  question  of 
human  responsibilities.  Even  though  we  are  here 
treading  on  ground  that  may  prove  to  be  difficult,  we 
believe that while the fundamental rights and freedoms 
of  the  individual  form  the  cornerstone  of  a  free  and 
democratic  society,  so  do  human  responsibilities. 
Rights and duties are two sides of the same coin. Our 
commitment  to  duties  should  be  as  firm  as  that  to 
rights.  Stressing  the  rights  of  society  and  our  duties 
towards others — which in no case should overshadow 
our  attention  to  the  rights  of  the  individual  —  puts 
emphasis  on  that  which  keeps  society  together.  Malta 
shall  take  up  this  matter  to  achieve  a  measure  of 
progress in this field in the international community. 

Before  concluding,  allow  me  to  pay  a  tribute  in 
memory  to  President  Guido  de  Marco,  one  of  my 
predecessors,  who  as  Deputy  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister for Foreign Affairs, and as President of Malta, 
bestowed  honour  on  his  country  and  the  people  of 
Malta,  which  he  loved  dearly.  His  passing  away  last 
month  left  a  great  void  not  only  among  the  Maltese 
population,  but  also  for  the  many  who  worked  with 
him  for  the  betterment  of  those  in  the  international 
community who are oppressed, weak and vulnerable. 

Twenty  years  ago,  this Assembly  elected  him  to 
serve as President at the forty-fifth session. His strong 
belief  in  and  steadfast  support  of  the  United  Nations 
can  be  encapsulated  in  his  own  words  at  the  opening 
plenary of the session on 18 September 1990 when, in 
referring to the enormous challenges that lay ahead, he 
stated that 

“equally  enormous 
to 
guarantee  that  mankind’s  destiny  is  safeguarded 
not only by individual countries, but by a strong 
United Nations” (A/45/PV.1, p. 22). 
His election as President ushered in, among other 

things,  new  initiatives  for  the  revitalization  of  our 
the  political  will 
is 
and 
(Yemen) 
(spoke 
supporting 
to  express 
Mr.  Al-Qirbi
this  Organization 
General Assembly  —  a  legacy  that  has  continued  and 
continues today. By following Guido de Marco’s vision 
for  and  love  of  the  United  Nations,  my  country  shall 
continue 
its 
Secretary-General to make our world a better place for 
present and future generations. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  join  in  the 

tribute to former General Assembly President Guido de 
Marco  expressed  by  the  Deputy  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Malta. 
I  now  call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abubakr  Al 

Qirbi,  Minister  for  Foreign Affairs  of  the  Republic  of 
Yemen. 
in  Arabic): 

Mr. President, on behalf of the Government of Yemen, 
I  am  pleased 
to  you  our  warm 
congratulations  on  your  assumption  of  the  presidency 
of  the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session. We 
are  confident  that  your  abilities  and  wisdom,  Sir,  will 
lead  to  the  success  of  this  session  in  fulfilment  of  its 
desired goal. 

I also wish to refer with appreciation and pride to 
the  good  work  of  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki,  the 
previous  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  and 
congratulate  him  for  his  tireless  efforts  that  led  the 
previous  session  to  a  successful  conclusion,  not  the 
least  of  which  was  his  participation  in  the  High-level 
Plenary  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 

We  also  wish  to  thank  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon, Secretary-General of the United Nations, for 
his  continuous  efforts  to  reform  our  Organization  and 
increase  its  role  in  the  humanitarian  and  development 
fields  and  in  the  achievement  of  international  peace 
and security. 

The  Republic  of  Yemen  is  witnessing  complex 
development  and  political,  social  and  environmental 
challenges.  A  number  of  factors  and  circumstances 
have led to their formation, including the international 
financial crisis, with its negative effect on the Yemeni 
economy,  and  a  decline  in  our  progress  towards  the 
achievement  of  the  MDGs. There  is  a  severe  shortage 
of available resources owing to the low production and 
low price of oil, on which the Government depends as 
a main source of income, representing 75 per cent of its 
general  income.  There  has  also  been  a  decline  in 
remittances from expatriates and in tourism, in addition 
4 

10-55264 
A  number  of  administrative, 


to  overpopulation,  paucity  of  water  resources,  and 
limited  contributions  from  development  partners  for 
funding anti-poverty programmes and providing decent 
standards of living for our citizens. 

Yemen’s  pro  rata  share  of  official  development 
assistance  (ODA)  is  the  lowest  of  the  least  developed 
countries  in  the  world.  With  a  view  to  achieving 
economic  development  and  conducting  financial  and 
economic reforms, my country has recently concluded 
an agreement with the International Monetary Fund to 
implement  a  programme  that  will  lead  to  financial 
straightening  out  of  the  budget  deficit  and  stem  the 
progressive decline in Government level of support for 
fuel  in  a  manner  that  would  contribute  to  alleviating 
the general budgetary burden falling on the State. 

financial  and 
judiciary reforms have been adopted, as have efforts to 
combat  corruption  and  to  apply  decentralization  of 
power.  My  Government  is  now  trying  to  develop  its 
fourth  five-year  development  plan  for  the  years  2011-
2015.  We  have  started  a  political  dialogue  with 
opposition parties in order to find agreement on how to 
address all the challenges faced by Yemen. We have set 
up  election 
introduced  a  number  of 
constitutional  reforms,  called  for  the  formation  of  a 
National  Unity  Government, 
for 
conducting parliamentary elections next April. 

Last  week,  there  were  a  number  of  meetings  in 
New  York  on  a  new  initiative  regarding  cooperation 
with  Yemen,  under  the  name  of  Friends  of  Yemen. 
Participants 
the  Gulf 
Cooperation  Council,  the  European  Union,  the  five 
permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council,  along 
with Turkey, Jordan and Egypt, as well as international 
donor  funds  and  institutions.  The  purpose  of  the 
meeting  was  to  garner  support  for  our  efforts  to 
achieve development and combat extremism, terrorism 
and piracy. We are confident that this cooperation will 
strengthen  our  security  capabilities  to  carry  out  our 
development  plans,  reinforce  our  ability  to  combat 
terrorism and protect sea lanes in the Gulf of Aden and 
the  southern  part  of  the  Red  Sea  from  piracy  and 
protect our borders. 

Among  the  challenges  Yemen  has  faced  are  the 
difficult political developments following a rebellion in 
the Governorate of Sa’dah, which has complicated the 
Government’s  efforts  at  achieving  national  peace  and 
reconstruction.  This  rebellion,  in  addition  to  six  wars 
included  representatives  of 
laws  and 
in  preparation 
A/65/PV.21
forced 
thousands  of  citizens  and 
imposed  on  Yemen,  have  caused  the  displacement  of 
tens  of 
the 
establishment  of  refugee  camps  in  coordination  with 
international relief organizations. The conflict came to 
an end once the rebel group accepted the six conditions 
that  the  Government  posed,  including  the  release  of  a 
great  number  of  prisoners  and  agreeing  to  the  Doha 
Accords, the time frame and implementation of which, 
as sponsored by sisterly Qatar, we are in the process of 
carrying  out.  The  Government  has  responded  by 
peacefully  reaching out to the  rebels, while upholding 
the  principle  of  sovereignty  and  the  rule  of  law 
throughout the country. The country upheld the right to 
confront  any  groups  that  violate  the  Constitution  and 
the  rule  of  law,  or  that  practise  terrorism,  violence  or 
sabotage. 

My  country  is  also  suffering  from  the  terrorist 
activities  of  Al-Qaida,  which  has  been  carrying  out 
new  operations,  such  as  assassinating  leaders  in  our 
security  sector.  It  is  trying  to  entrench  its  position  on 
the Arabian  Peninsula  by  cooperating  with  opponents 
to  Yemeni  unity,  such  as  the  southern  secessionists, 
who  call  for  secession  in  defiance  of  the  will  of  the 
majority  of  the  Yemeni  people.  They  also  support 
subversive  elements  in  Sa’dah,  in  service  of  the 
interests of Al-Qaida, and seek to spread instability and 
anarchy in the country through their terrorist activities 
targeting Yemen, the region and the rest of the world. 

Our  security  apparatus  has  managed  to  make 
headway in arresting many terrorists and aborting their 
operations. These  terrorists  now  live  in  a  state  of  fear 
and  are  unable  to  carry  out  their  terrorist  plans. As  a 
complement  to  the  efforts  to  liquidate Al  Qaida,  there 
remains  a  pressing  and  important  need  to  build  and 
foster national abilities and coordinate intelligence and 
security activities. 

Experience  has  proven  that  outside  interference 
designed  to  combat  terrorism  further  compounds  the 
situation  and  paves  the  way  for  local  sympathy  for 
terrorist groups. Yemen is an effective partner with the 
international  community  in  combating  terrorism.  Our 
success  today  in  waging  pre-emptive  strikes  against 
Al-Qaida  requires  that  the  international  community 
take  a  strong  stand  by  providing  us  with  its  full 
backing and support. 

Since  its  assumption  of  the  chairmanship  of  the 
Group  of  77  and  China,  the  Republic  of  Yemen  has 
enthusiastically  and  willingly  tried  to  reach  consensus 
10-55264 

5 

It 
is 
A/65/PV.21 

on a number of issues of interest to the Group and that 
will maintain the unity and solidarity of the Group and 
further  its  relations  with  the  developed  countries. 
Recently, Yemen led the difficult negotiations to arrive 
at  the  outcome  document  of  the  High-level  Plenary 
Meeting  of  the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(resolution  65/1),  which  contains  a  work  programme 
for  the  coming  five  years.  Yemen’s  leadership  of  the 
Group  enabled  it  to  achieve  much  of  the  South’s 
agenda,  which  serves  the  interests  of  all  developing 
countries. 
leading  other,  highly  complex 
negotiations  on  conventions  having  to  do  with  the 
environment and climate change. 

We are proud to have chaired the meetings of the 
Group  of  77  and  China  on  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change.  Our 
effective  participation  in  the  work  of  the  relevant 
committees  has  led  to  a  compromise  and  middle 
ground  that  we  hope  will  lead  to  the  success  that  has 
thus far remained out of reach. 

We  must  focus  on  the  suffering  of  more  than 
20 million  Pakistanis  caused  by  the  recent  floods, 
calling on the international community, particularly the 
super-Powers, to shoulder their responsibilities towards 
the  Pakistani  people  as  well  as  their  responsibility 
vis-à-vis the impact of climate change in the future and 
its  potential  destructive  effects.  We  call  upon  all 
Member  States  to  responsibly  stand  by  the  sisterly 
Government of Pakistan with a view to alleviating the 
suffering of its internally displaced persons. 

I would like to take this opportunity to extend our 
warmest  condolences  to  the  Governments  and  peoples 
of  States  that  have  recently  been  affected  by  natural 
disasters,  particularly  Pakistan,  China,  the  Russian 
Federation and Haiti. 

It  is,  of  course,  a  fact  that  the  Arab-Israeli 
conflict  threatens  international  stability  and  security. 
The  history  of  efforts  to  solve  this  conflict  shows 
clearly 
the  Israeli 
Government’s settlement policies, as well as its refusal 
to  abide  by  the  internationally  legitimate  resolutions 
and  the Arab  Peace  Initiative  or  ensure  the  legitimate 
rights  of  the  Palestinians  are  the  main  barriers  to  the 
achievement of peace. 

The  international  community,  in  particular  the 
main  sponsors  of  the  peace  talks  and  especially  the 
United  States,  should  give  Israel  one  last  chance  to 
recalcitrance  and 
that  Israeli 
its 
threat 
its  expansion  and 
abide  by  all  of  the  resolutions,  previous  agreements 
and  calls  relating  to  the  promulgation  of  peace  in 
addition to the establishment of a sovereign Palestinian 
State  on  its  soil  and  the  cessation  of  settlement-
building.  Furthermore,  if  Israel  continues  to  reject 
peace, the Security Council should impose a solution to 
the  conflict  in  accordance  with  relevant  resolutions  of 
international  legitimacy  and  under  Chapter  VII  of  the 
Charter.  Israel  must  also  accede  to  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  and  enter  into 
serious  talks  with  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency aimed at making the Middle East a region free 
from  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  to  assert  the 
right  of  States  in  the  region  to  the  peaceful  use  of 
nuclear technology. 
Despite  the  numerous  meetings  of  the  Security 

Council  and 
the  International  Contact  Group  on 
Somalia,  the  situation  in  Somalia  remains  dangerous 
and  threatening  to  the  security  and  stability  of  the 
region.  It  is  regrettable  that,  given  the  growing  piracy 
phenomenon, 
to 
international  navigation,  the  international  community 
has  not  taken  effective  steps  to  support  the  temporary 
Somali  Government,  enable  it  to  build  its  State  and 
institutions, support its security capacity and army and 
support the African peacekeeping force. This has made 
the  Somali  Government  and  people  feel  embittered, 
having  witnessed 
the 
its  commitments  and 
international  community  of 
obligations to the Somali Government. 

Yemen  bears  the  burden  of  the  outflow  of 
thousands of refugees from the Horn of Africa, most of 
whom  are  from  Somalia.  We  are  well  aware  of  the 
effects  of  the  security,  political  and  humanitarian 
situation  in  Somalia  on  Yemen  and  the  region.  The 
United  Nations  and  the  Security  Council  in  particular 
should  shoulder  their  responsibility  to  restore  security 
and stability to Somalia. 

Here, we acknowledge the efforts of the Sudanese 
Government  to  bring  about  the  success  of  dialogue 
with the opposition forces, and we commend the Qatari 
mediation  efforts  to  achieve  peace  in  Darfur  and  the 
Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement  with  the  South. 
Dialogue is the only means to maintain the unity of the 
Sudan and achieve security and stability there. We call 
upon 
their 
responsibilities  and  to  effectively  participate  in  the 
dialogue  in  a  manner  that  fulfils  the  high  national 
all  Sudanese  parties 
fulfilment  by 
the  non 
shoulder 
to 
6 

10-55264 
to 
that 
it  was  necessary 


interests of the Sudanese people and retains their social 
integrity and unity. 

We  call  for  the  revocation  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  warrant  against  his  Excellency 
President  Omer Al  Bashir,  since  this  does  not  respect 
the  sovereignty  of  the  State  and  impedes  efforts  to 
achieve peace in the Sudan. 

The  parliamentary  elections  in  Iraq  reflected  the 
Iraqi  people’s  support  for  the  democratic  option  and 
the  Iraqi  Constitution. We  are  confident  that  they  will 
employ  dialogue  to  solve  all  of  their  differences  and 
avoid all sectarian and factional conflicts and disputes. 
We  are  hopeful  that  the  Iraqi  national  leadership  will 
agree to the formation of the Government and put Iraq 
on  the  road  towards  development,  construction  and 
stability. 

The  Republic  of  Yemen  hosted  a  ministerial 
meeting of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
at the beginning of last month. At that meeting, it was 
reiterated 
strengthen 
cooperation  among  its  member  States  in  the  fields  of 
trade,  investment,  tourism,  culture  and  education, 
fisheries;  and  efforts  to  combat  epidemics,  natural 
disasters,  the  challenges  of  climate  change  and  piracy 
on the high seas. 
We  also  hosted  the  extraordinary  ministerial 

for  Cooperation, 
meeting  of 
emphasizing the need to achieve security and stability 
in the Horn of Africa and the south of the Red Sea, and 
to combat extremism, piracy and terrorism in the Horn 
of Africa and the Arabian Sea. 

We  have  hosted  these  and  other  ministerial  and 
regional  meetings  based  on  our  desire  to  achieve 
collective  cooperation  in  order  to  maintain  peace  and 
security  among  the  peoples  of  the  region  and  the 
world, in accordance with the lofty goals of the United 
Nations. 

Despite all the appeals to achieve the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  the  humanitarian 
themes 
international 
situation,  which  has  been  affected  by  the  financial 
crisis,  the  fluctuation  of  energy  prices  and  natural 
disasters leading to increases in the price of crops and 
other  foodstuffs,  has  dissuaded  developed  countries 
from  fulfilling  their  obligations  to  assist  and  support 
the  least  developed  countries.  There  is  fear  that  the 
specified time frame for achieving the MDGs will pass 
the  Sana’a  Forum 
the  Goals, 
included 
in 
the 
A/65/PV.21
and  the  developed  countries  will  not  fulfil  their 
obligations towards the developing and least developed 
countries. 

In  Yemen,  we  have  positively  dealt  with  these 
Goals  in  accordance  with  our  limited  capacity.  Our 
Government  has  adopted  a  national  strategy 
to 
eradicate  poverty.  This  has  been  reflected  in  our 
national  development  plans.  We  are  trying  our  best, 
with the cooperation of the international community, to 
implement  this  strategy.  Our  Government  has  taken  a 
number  of  measures  to  increase  the  allocation  of 
budgetary  funds  for  education  and  to  build  more 
schools  as  well  as  to  enhance  the  educational  cadres, 
developing  primary  education,  encouraging  education 
for  girls  and  widening  the  scope  of  adult  illiteracy 
reduction.  We  are  trying  to  improve  gender  equality 
and  the  empowerment  of  women  to  participate  in 
political life. We have provided health care for mothers 
and children,  spreading  cultural  and health awareness. 
This  has  led  to  low  infant  mortality  rates.  We  have 
conducted  health  campaigns  to  eliminate  epidemics 
and the spread of AIDS. 

Yemen  suffers  from  scarce  water  resources  and 
overpopulation,  which 
the 
sustainability  and  soundness  of  the  environment.  We 
have  therefore  made  national  plans  to  study  the 
situation,  better  understand  the  problems,  and  protect 
the  environment  as  part  of  our  national  plans  for 
development. 
We have spent a great deal on imposing the rule 

of 
law  and  on  combating 
terrorism  and  other 
subversive  elements.  We  have  taken  in  more  than 
700,000  refugees  from  the  Horn  of Africa,  which  has 
limited  our  expenditure  on  development  and  poverty 
reduction, on improving the standards of living of our 
citizens,  on  providing  employment  for  our  youth,  on 
improving  education  and  health  care  and  on  the 
achievement  of  the  MDGs.  We  therefore  call  on  our 
friends, partners, international donors and international 
organizations  and  financial  institutions  to  help  us 
combat  terrorism.  They  must  fulfil  their  obligations 
and extend the necessary support to Yemen to help  us 
achieve 
the 
socio-economic  and  political  stability  to  which  we 
aspire. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 

His  Excellency  Mr. Avigdor  Liberman,  Deputy  Prime 
Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Israel. 
development 
sustainable 
adversely 
affect 
and 
10-55264 

7 

A/65/PV.21 

Mr. Liberman (Israel): When I arrived yesterday 

in New York, I received a phone call from the chairman 
of one of the Jewish organizations, who asked me how 
I was coping with all the pressure that is being placed 
on Israel. “Surely”, he said, “it must be very difficult”. 
I  recalled  an  old  joke,  which  tells  of  five  Jews  who 
changed  the  way  we  see  the  world:  Moses,  law  is 
everything;  Jesus,  love  is  everything;  Marx,  money  is 
everything;  Freud,  sex  is  everything;  and  Einstein, 
everything is relative. So, I told him that everything is 
relative. On one hand, it is very difficult. On the other 
hand,  it  is  easier  than  before,  because  now  we  have  a 
stable coalition and a stable Government and we have 
the  support  of  a  majority  of  Israel’s  citizens.  We  are 
ready for a fair solution and we are ready to cooperate 
with the international community. However, we are not 
ready to compromise our national security or the vital 
interests of the State of Israel. 

At the outset, I want to  emphasize that,  contrary 
to  what  is  often  presented  in  the  international  media, 
the  political  arena  in  Israel  is  not  divided  between 
those  who  seek  peace  and  those  who  seek  war. 
Everyone  wants  peace,  and  the  controversy  in  Israel 
centres on the specific question of how to achieve this 
peace, how to reach security and stability in the region. 
And  the  question  is:  why,  in  the  17  years  since  we 
signed  the  Oslo  Accords,  have  we  not  arrived  at  a 
comprehensive  agreement  signifying  the  end  of  the 
conflict and the removal of future mutual claims? 

Despite  all  of  the  efforts  of  all  the  good  people 
with  the  best  of  intentions,  including  Yitzhak  Rabin, 
Shimon Peres, Benjamin Netanyahu, Ehud Barak, Ariel 
Sharon and Ehud Olmert; despite the summit meetings 
at Camp David between Ehud Barak and Yasser Arafat 
with the presence of former President Bill Clinton; and 
despite  the  Annapolis  Summit  between  Ehud  Olmert 
and Mahmoud Abbas, we are today still in deadlock. 

In  fact,  contrary  to  the  prevalent  view  that  the 
Israeli-Palestinian conflict is the heart of the instability 
in  the  Middle  East  or  is  the  main  reason  for  the 
region’s  numerous  conflicts,  the  reality  is  entirely 
different.  More  than  90  per  cent  of  the  wars  and  war 
victims of the Middle East since the Second World War 
did  not  result  from  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict  and 
are  in  no  way  connected  to  Israel.  Rather,  they  stem 
from conflicts involving Muslims or conflicts between 
Arab States. The Iran-Iraq war, the Gulf war, the wars 
between  North  and  South Yemen,  the  Hama  atrocities 
The 
second 
flawed 
for 
and 
the  problem 
is 
conflict  between 
explanation 
Israel 
the  so-called  occupation, 
in Syria, and the wars in Algeria and Lebanon — these 
are just a few examples from a list that goes on and on. 

the 
long-standing 
the 
Palestinians  that  has  gained  popularity  is  that  the  root 
of 
the 
settlements  in  Judea  and  Samaria  and  the  settlers 
themselves.  Only  the  establishment  of  an  independent 
Palestinian  State  in  Judea,  Samaria  and  Gaza,  so  the 
argument goes, will ensure peace in the region. 
It  is  sufficient  to  state  a  number  of  well-known 

facts  in  order  to  refute  that  claim.  First,  all  of  Judea, 
Samaria  and  Gaza  were  under  Arab  control  for 
19 years,  between  1948  and  1967.  During 
those 
19 years,  no  one  tried  to  create  a  Palestinian  State. 
Peace  agreements  were  achieved  with  Egypt  and 
Jordan,  despite  the  presence  of  settlements.  And  the 
opposite  is  also  true:  we  evacuated  21  flourishing 
settlements  in  Gush  Katif  and  transferred  more  than 
10,000 Jews. And, in return, we have Hamas in power 
and  thousands  of  missiles  landing  on  Sderot  and 
southern Israel. 
Another misguided argument is the claim that the 

Palestinian  issue  prevents  a  determined  international 
front against Iran. This argument is not only flawed, it 
is  completely  irresponsible. The  same  argument  could 
be  made  that  the  Palestinian  issue  prevents  action  on 
North Korea, piracy in Somalia, the humanitarian crisis 
in Sudan or the challenge of Afghanistan. 

Just  as  the  Khomeini  Revolution  had  nothing  to 
do  with  the  Palestinian  issue,  neither  is  the  Iranian 
decision  to  develop  nuclear  weapons  related.  In  truth, 
the connection between Iran and the Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict is precisely the contrary. Iran can exist without 
Hamas,  Islamic  Jihad  and  Hizbullah,  but  the  terrorist 
organizations  cannot  exist  without  Iran.  Relying  on 
those  proxies,  Iran  can,  at  any  given  time,  foil  any 
agreement  between  Israel  and  the  Palestinians  or  with 
Lebanon. 

Thus,  in  searching  for  a  durable  agreement  with 
the  Palestinians,  one  that  will  deal  with  the  true  roots 
of  the  conflict  and  will  endure  for  many  years,  one 
must  understand  that,  first,  the  Iranian  issue  must  be 
resolved. One must deal first with the root cause of the 
problem,  and  not  its  symptoms.  There  are,  of  course, 
yet  other  problems  that  must  be  solved;  solving  that 
one  would  not  be  sufficient,  but  it  is  nevertheless  a 
necessary condition. 
8 

10-55264 
intermediate  agreement,  something 



In  trying  to  resolve  the  conflict  between  Israel 
and the Palestinians, we are dealing with two types of 
problems: emotional problems and practical problems. 
That is why the solution must also be a two-stage one. 

The  emotional  problems  are,  first  and  foremost, 
the  utter  lack  of  confidence  between  the  sides  and 
issues  such  as  Jerusalem,  recognition  of  Israel  as  the 
nation-State of the Jewish people, and refugees. Under 
those conditions, we should focus on coming up with a 
long-term 
that 
could  take  a  few  decades.  We  need  to  raise  an  entire 
new generation that will have mutual trust and will not 
be  influenced  by  incitement  and  extremist  messages. 
To  achieve  a 
final  status  agreement,  we  must 
understand  that  the  primary  practical  obstacle  is  the 
friction between the two nations. 

As  is  true  everywhere,  where  there  are  two 
nations, two religions or two languages with competing 
claims  to  the  same  land,  there  is  friction  and  conflict. 
Countless examples of ethnic conflict around the world 
confirm  this,  whether  in  the  Balkans,  the  Caucasus, 
Africa,  the  Far  East  or  the  Middle  East.  Where 
effective  separation  has  been  achieved,  conflict  has 
either  been  avoided  or  has  been  dramatically  reduced 
or resolved. Consider the cases of the former Yugoslav 
republics,  the  split-up  of  Czechoslovakia  and  the 
independence of East Timor as cases in point. Thus, the 
guiding principle for a final status agreement must not 
be  land-for-peace  but  rather,  exchange  of  populated 
territory. Let me be very clear: I am not speaking about 
moving  populations,  but  rather  about  moving  borders 
to better reflect demographic realities. 

This is not an extraordinary insight and is far less 
controversial  than  some  may  seek  to  claim.  In  fact, 
precisely  this  notion  —  that  a  mismatch  between 
borders and nationalities is a recipe for conflict — has 
long been accepted as a virtual truism in the academic 
community.  Leading  scholars  and  highly  respected 
research institutions have even coined the term “right-
sizing  the  State”  to  capture  the  idea  that  States  and 
nations  must  be  in  balance  in  order  to  ensure  peace. 
This  is  not  a  controversial  political  policy.  It  is  an 
empirical truth. 

But  beyond  empirical  truth  there  is  historical 
truth, namely, the almost 4,000 years during which the 
Jewish  people  were  born  in  the  land  of  Israel  and 
developed 
intellectual 
treasures  that  have  been  instrumental  in  the  rise  of 
the  corpus  of  ethical  and 
A/65/PV.21
interim 
conquest 
Western  civilization.  The  2,000  years  of  forced  exile 
and 
by  Byzantines,  Arabs, 
Mamelukes, Ottomans and others cannot and never will 
impair  the  unbreakable  bonds  of  the  Jewish  people  to 
its homeland. Israel is not only where we are, it is who 
we are. 

In closing, let me remind everyone in this Hall of 
the quote on the plaza across from the United Nations, 
words spoken in Jerusalem almost 3,000 years ago by 
the Jewish prophet Isaiah: 

“They shall beat their swords into plowshares and 
their  spears  into  pruning  hooks;  nation  shall  not 
lift  up  sword  against  nation,  neither  shall  they 
learn war any more.” (Isaiah 2:4) 
Inspired  by  the  deep  wisdom  embodied  in  these 

words,  let  us  hope  that  the  path  to  true  peace 
prophesied by Isaiah will guide our two peoples, in two 
nation-States, living in peace and security. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Hor  Namhong,  Deputy  Prime 
for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
Minister  and  Minister 
International  Cooperation  of 
the  Kingdom  of 
Cambodia. 
Mr. Hor (Cambodia): At the outset, allow me to 

join  the  previous  speakers  in  expressing  my  sincere 
congratulations  to  His  Excellency  Joseph  Deiss  of 
Switzerland  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  sixty-
fifth  session  of  our  General Assembly.  I  am  confident 
that  under  his  able  leadership  our  Assembly  will  be 
crowned  with  significant  progress  on  many  global 
issues of international concern. Likewise, I would like 
to  His 
to 
tribute 
Excellency  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki 
for 
the 
professionalism  and  dedication  with  which  he 
conducted 
the  previous  session  of  our  General 
Assembly. 

This sixty-fifth session is particularly significant, 
combining in a timely manner two important high-level 
meetings,  namely,  the  high-level  meeting  on  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and the High-
level Review of the Mauritius Strategy for the Further 
Implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action  for  the 
Sustainable  Development  of  Small  Island  Developing 
States. Those  important  meetings  remind  us  that  there 
is  no  better  entity  than  the  United  Nations  to  address 
global challenges and that multilateralism is relevant in 
addressing the world’s interconnected and proliferating 
this  opportunity 
to  pay 
take 
10-55264 

9 

as 
the 
and 
food 
including 
economic 
A/65/PV.21 

the  global  economic  and 
challenges, 
financial  crisis,  climate  change, 
security, 
international peace and security, regional conflicts and 
others. 

The  global  economic  and  financial  storm  seems 
to  be  over,  but  the  task  of  restoring  confidence  and 
promoting economic recovery is far from complete and 
remains a daunting task,  especially  for  the developing 
countries.  However,  achievement  of  the  MDGs  is 
uncertain  owing  to  the  fragile  economic  recovery  of 
those  countries.  Failure  to  meet  the  MDGs  by  2015 
will  leave  millions  of  people  locked  in  the  cycle  of 
poverty.  Therefore, 
recovery 
continues,  a  joint  effort  towards  concrete  action  is 
needed  to  further  boost  confidence  and  maintain  the 
momentum of global economic growth. 

In Cambodia we adopted our own MDGs in 2003, 
known  as  Cambodian  MDGs  and  have  thus  achieved 
the  MDG  targets  on  reducing  child  mortality  and 
HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases. According to a 
recent  study  issued  by  the  Overseas  Development 
Institute 
the  United  Nations  Millennium 
Campaign,  Cambodia  ranks  among  20  countries  that 
have made the most absolute progress on the MDGs. 

Our  world  today  is  facing  most  serious  global 
challenges. Climate change presents a major threat for 
every  country,  although  it  is  more  severe  for  poor 
countries.  Daily,  we  see  an  increase  in  headline  news 
and  reports  on  chaotic  weather  occurring  worldwide, 
with  record  heat  and  cold  waves,  unusual  torrential 
rains  leading  to  apocalyptic  floods  and  landslides  and 
mudslides  that  kill  hundreds  and  displace  millions  of 
people.  Intense  forest  fires  resulting  from  to  extreme 
heat indicate that Mother Nature is raging. 
The  confluence  of  those  natural  calamities  also 

means  that  the  agricultural  sector,  which  depends 
largely on weather, has been hit most often, resulting in 
adverse impacts on food security. All those events have 
aggravated  poverty  and 
illegal 
immigration,  which  has  already  become  a  serious 
human security problem. 

the 
fifteenth  session  of  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  in 
Copenhagen  last  year  failed  to  achieve  a  binding 
agreement, it established a good foundation at the least 
to  enhance  international  cooperation  on  a  number  of 
key issues, such as deforestation, renewable energy and 
financial  support  for  the  world’s  poorest  countries  to 
the  much  awaited  summit  of 
increased 
Although 
led 
to 
to 
at 
provide 
financial 
commitments 
mitigate  and  adapt  to  climate  change.  We  regret, 
however, that the pledges have not been actualized. 

It  is  still  uncertain  whether  a  binding  agreement 
will  be  secured  in  Cancún  this  year.  In  particular,  the 
principle of common but differentiated responsibilities 
for  developed  and  developing  nations  should  serve  as 
the foundation for negotiations. Such a principle is key 
to rebuilding mutual trust among nations, which is the 
most urgent task needed to achieve a meaningful result 
at the Cancún Conference. The spirit of compromise is 
absolutely necessary for the sake of humanity. Climate 
change has already reached a point of no return. 
Cambodia  urges  developed  countries  to  honour 

their 
and 
technological  aid  to  developing  nations  for  the  fight 
against  climate  change  and  to  take  the  lead  and  cut 
their  respective  carbon  dioxide  emissions,  so  that  the 
Conference  in  Cancún  can  produce  tangible  results. 
Fruitful outcomes in Cancún will depend on efforts by 
all  to  save  humankind  from  much  more  serious 
catastrophes. Climate change is not a vital problem of 
only  one  country  or  one  region,  but  of  the  world  as  a 
whole. 
the  group  of 

countries  for 
the  Copenhagen 
Accord. We have launched our own initiative called the 
Cambodian  Climate  Change  Alliance,  which  focuses 
on  capacity-building  and 
strengthening  national 
institutions.  Cambodia  has  also  steadily  implemented 
projects 
from 
deforestation  and  forest  degradation  and  will  continue 
to assume its share of responsibility in curbing carbon 
dioxide  emissions  and  bringing  about  adaptation  and 
mitigation measures. 
Cambodia  believes  that  the  problem  of  food 

security  also  deserves  great  attention.  At  the  World 
Summit  on  Food  Security  in  November  2009  it  was 
disclosed that the number of hungry people had already 
reached  1  billion. That  number  will  certainly  increase 
day  by  day  with  the  augmentation  of  the  world 
population,  thus  further  aggravating  food  security  in 
the world, particularly in the poorest countries. 
to 

agriculture, the lack of access to agrotechnologies and 
the  irrational  use  of  water  resources  are  among  the 
catalysts of the food crisis. At the same time, as a result 
of recent high fuel oil prices, agricultural land has been 
diverted  to  grow  bioenergy  crops  to  meet  increasing 
lack  of  financial  resources  devoted 
is  pleased 
implementation  of 
Cambodia 
emissions 
reducing 
aimed 
join 
The 
to 
10 

10-55264 
that 
the 
food. 
and  more 
Furthermore, 
assistance 
focused  on 


demand  for  fuel,  while  the  world  population  needs 
more 
official 
(ODA)  has  not  been 
development 
sufficiently 
agricultural  production. 
Therefore,  Cambodia  hopes 
international 
community  will  turn  its  attention  to  redirecting  and 
increasing  ODA  to  emphasize  food  security.  At  the 
same  time,  adequate  and  timely  measures  must  be 
taken to address the various obstacles to food security, 
in order to avoid recurrence of food crises in the future. 

In  this  context,  the  pledge  of  $20  billion  over 
three years made at the 2009 Group of Eight Summit in 
L’Aquila  to  support  agricultural  production  in  poor 
countries  was  extremely  opportune  and  offered  much 
hope,  not  only  with  regard  to  narrowing  the  food 
shortage  but  also  for  progress  towards  the  MDGs  and 
poverty  reduction  in  general.  Still,  respecting  that 
commitment through timely disbursement and efficient 
utilization  of  that  funding  are  absolutely  essential. 
Within Cambodia, food production is the top priority of 
our  Government  policy,  and  agriculture  and  irrigation 
are  being  aggressively  promoted  as  a  springboard  for 
broader  economic  development,  with  the  ambition  of 
turning Cambodia into a more important rice-exporting 
country. 

issues  of  grave 
concern in many parts of the world. Terrorism remains 
a  very  serious  threat  to  the  world,  killing  innocent 
people  every  day  in  many  parts  of  the  world.  The 
regional security landscape in Asia and the Middle East 
constitutes  a  concern  for  the  international  community, 
compelling us to be ever vigilant. 

the  Korean  peninsula  still 
presents  a  threat  to  peace  and  security  in  that  region. 
Cambodia earnestly calls on the parties to refrain from 
any  act  that  could  escalate  tensions,  with  a  view  to 
promoting  conditions  that  could  enable  the  Six-Party 
Talks to resume as soon as possible. Peace will prevail 
only as a result of negotiations aimed at re-establishing 
the  confidence  necessary 
to  a  peaceful  Korean 
peninsula. 

The  Israeli-Palestinian  issue  remains  one  of  the 
longest  and  most  explosive  running  conflicts  in  the 
Middle East. Year after year the Palestinian people are 
denied  their  right  to  establish  a  Palestine  State  living 
side  by  side  in  peace  with  the  people  of  Israel.  Year 
after year this Assembly urges the parties concerned to 
comply with the relevant Security Council resolutions, 
Peace  and  security  remain 
The  situation 
in 
A/65/PV.21
the 
Israel  and 
international  community 
while  the  whole  world  waits  impatiently  for  a  peace 
agreement  between 
the  Palestinians. 
Cambodia  urges  both  parties  to  act  with  utmost 
restraint  and  to avoid  any  act of provocation, in  order 
to pave the way for a peaceful solution. 

Cambodia  warmly  welcomes  the  recent  direct 
peace talks between the Israeli Prime Minister and the 
Palestinian President in Washington and in Egypt, as a 
step in the right direction for bolstering an atmosphere 
of  trust  between  the  two  sides.  Cambodia  shares  the 
view  of 
that  new 
settlements in the West Bank present the main obstacle 
to efforts towards a peaceful settlement of the conflict. 
Cambodia hopes that both  sides  can finally look  for a 
compromise on this crucial issue in order to achieve a 
breakthrough  for  the  sake  of  a  lasting  peace  in  the 
Middle East. 

With  regard  to  the  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United  States  of  America  against  Cuba,  Cambodia 
firmly supports the resolutions of our Assembly on the 
necessity  of  ending  that  embargo  and  calls  upon  all 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  to  implement  those 
resolutions  in  order  to  end  the  prolonged  suffering  of 
the innocent people of Cuba. 

Mr. MacDonald (Suriname), Vice-President, took 
the Chair. 
Given 
should  be 
to  effectively  manage 
emerging  global 

challenges,  the  United  Nations  must  be  ready  to  fulfil 
its  growing  responsibilities  to  tackle  those  complex 
worldwide  issues.  The  functioning  of  every  organ  of 
the  United  Nations 
readjusted  and 
reinvigorated  so  as 
the 
complexity  of  the  world  today  to  overcome  all  the 
challenges  in  order  to  build  a  suitable  world  for  all. 
Regarding  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations  Security 
Council,  Cambodia  is  of  the  view  that  priority  should 
be given to increasing the representation of developing 
countries, which comprise a vast majority of the United 
Nations  membership.  For  many  years,  many  have 
raised the matter of reform, but unfortunately particular 
interests have prevailed over the world’s concerns and 
prevented the reform from taking place. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Theodore  Brent  Symonette,  Deputy 
Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Commonwealth of the Bahamas. 
the  very 
serious 
10-55264 

11 

to 
in 
I 
take 
this  opportunity 
A/65/PV.21 

Mr.  Symonette  (Bahamas):  On  behalf  of  the 

Government  and  people  of  the  Commonwealth  of  the 
Bahamas,  I  congratulate  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss  on  his 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fifth  session,  and  I  assure  him  of  my  country’s 
and  my  delegation’s  full  support  and  cooperation.  I 
also  extend  sincere  congratulations  to  his  predecessor 
for  his stewardship of this Assembly during the sixty-
fourth session. 

express 
also 
condolences  on  behalf  of  the  Government  and  the 
people  of  the  Bahamas  to  the  Government  and  people 
of Pakistan for the loss of lives and property sustained 
as a result of devastating floods affecting their region. 
The Government and the people of the Bahamas stand 
in solidarity with Pakistan. 

One  of  the  greatest  challenges  of  the  global 
economic and financial crisis has been the loss in speed 
towards  achieving  the  development  goals,  including 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  We 
are 
encouraged  by  the  decline  in  the  number  of  people 
living  in  absolute  poverty  and  the  reported  increased 
access  to  primary  and  secondary  education  for  some. 
We  are  mindful  that  high  levels  of  infant  mortality, 
unsatisfactory  reduction 
the  rate  of  maternal 
mortality, continued high incidences of sexual violence 
against  women  and  a  rise  in  the  prevalence  of  HIV 
continue to persist in many countries. 
The  World  Health  Organization  forecasts  that 

between 
from 
non-communicable  diseases  will  increase  worldwide 
by  some  17  per  cent.  The  increasing  risks  and  high 
prevalence of non-communicable diseases are exacting 
heavy tolls on finances and health systems of countries 
like the Bahamas. Hence  we welcome  the adoption  of 
resolution 64/265, which calls for a high-level plenary 
meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  next  September  to 
address 
prevention 
of 
non-communicable diseases. 

The  Bahamas  continues  to  pledge  the  highest 
priority  on  attaining  and  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. We fully expect to achieve most if 
not all of the goals and targets identified. Still, we are 
not  out  of  the  woods.  The  fallout  from  the  global 
economic  and  financial  crisis  continues  to  impact  the 
chief  engine  and  principal  employer  in  our  country, 
tourism,  and  to  slow  recovery  and  expansion  in  other 
segments  of  our  economy.  My  Government  has 
control 
deaths 
2006 
and 
2015, 
the 
and 
the 
implementation  of 
accelerated 
a  planned 
programme  of  national  infrastructure  upgrade  and 
expansion,  with  a  view  to  upgrading  the  country’s 
infrastructure in order to accommodate new growth and 
development when the global economy rebounds. 

We  believe  it  is  critical  that  greater  attention  be 
given  to  achieving  a  more  transparent  international 
credit  rating  system  that  takes  fully  into  account  the 
needs  and  concerns  of  developing  countries.  Greater 
participation  by  developing  countries  is  also  required 
in key international  norm- and standard-setting  bodies 
in  financial  regulation  and  supervision,  including  the 
Financial Stability Board and the Basel Committee on 
Banking Supervision. It is also our view that there is an 
important  role  for  the  United  Nations  in  this  process, 
particularly in the area of institutional strengthening. 

We  are  pleased  by  the  considerable  progress 
made  in  enhancing  our  social  safety  net,  expanding 
unemployment  benefits  and  introducing  a  national 
prescription  drug  programme  designed  to  ensure  that 
the  most  vulnerable  sectors  of  our  society  —  infants 
and  school-age  children,  and  the  elderly  —  receive 
prescription  medication,  regardless  of  their  ability  to 
pay.  And  we  are  also  pleased  that,  notwithstanding 
forced  reductions  in  Government  expenditures  across 
the board, every child in the Bahamas continues to be 
assured  of  a  place  in  Government-operated  schools, 
from primary to high school. 

Overshadowing  our  successes  is  the  ever-present 
threat  posed  by  climate  change.  The  Bahamas  is  the 
fifth  most  vulnerable  country  to  rising  sea  levels.  We 
are  a  country  of  negligible  greenhouse  gases  and 
negligible  gas  emissions; 
suffer 
catastrophic results if  emissions are not  stabilized and 
reduced  worldwide.  Indeed,  science  demonstrates  that 
a two degree Celsius change in temperature will result 
in  a  sea-level  rise  of  more  than  two  metres.  Such  an 
occurrence  would  submerge  80  per  cent  of  our 
territory. 

The  Bahamas  therefore  joins  with  other  small 
island  developing  States  (SIDS)  in  reiterating  the  call 
to  the  international  community,  and  particularly  to 
developed  countries,  to  undertake  urgent  and  decisive 
action 
reduce  emissions  of  all 
greenhouse  gases,  and  also  to  implement  fast  action 
strategies. We similarly call for increased financial and 
technological  support  of  SIDS,  and  our  particularly 
vulnerable  countries,  as  we  struggle  to  adapt  to  the 
to  significantly 
still,  we  will 
12 

10-55264 
anticipation 
considerable 


adverse  impacts  of  climate  change. As  such,  we  look 
forward  with 
the 
December Conference in Cancún. 
The  Bahamas  draws  attention  to  the  importance 

of 
the 
the  Barbados  Programme  of  Action  for 
Sustainable  Development  of  Small  Island  Developing 
States,  as  that  programme  remains  the  blueprint  for 
action  on  sustainable  development  for  SIDS,  as  was 
subsequently  reaffirmed  in  the  Mauritius  Strategy.  In 
the  Bahamas  we  have  an  unwavering  political 
commitment  to  sustainability  as  the  cardinal  principle 
for national development strategies. And in the area of 
biodiversity, significant achievements have been made 
in  establishing  and  expanding  marine,  coastal  and 
terrestrial protected areas. We are also well along with 
the  development  of  a  national  energy  policy,  with 
potential for renewable energy. 

It  is  impossible  for  my  country  to  note  the  high 
incidence  of  catastrophic  natural  disasters  being 
experienced around the world and not acknowledge the 
plight  of  our  great  neighbour,  Haiti.  Haiti  and  its 
people are a priority concern for the Bahamas and the 
Caribbean  Community  subregion,  as  they  are  for  the 
entire  international  community.  None  of  us,  however, 
were  under  any 
the  recovery  and 
reconstruction of Haiti, in the wake of the devastating 
January  earthquake,  would  be  anything  less  than  a 
Herculean  task.  In  the  immediate  aftermath  of  the 
disaster, billions of dollars were pledged and the wider 
community  of  nations  vowed  to  stay  the  course  and 
work to ensure that Haiti gained a footing on the path 
to sustainable growth and development. 

There  has  been  some  progress  in  Haiti  over  the 
past nine and a half months — but not nearly enough. 
Millions  of  internally  displaced  people  continue  to 
languish  in  makeshift  tent  cities,  with  inadequate 
shelter or protection, and most of the rubble from that 
January  earthquake  still  lies  where  it  fell.  It  is 
imperative, therefore, that the United Nations continue 
in its pivotal role of mobilizing international assistance 
for  Haiti  and  assisting  with 
recovery  and 
reconstruction. 

International peace and security remain a concern 
to  all  of  us.  The  recently  held  second  review  of  the 
United  Nations  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy 
underscored that we must renew our efforts to combat 
terrorism  in  an  effective  and  integrated  manner.  I 
reiterate  my  Government’s  commitment 
full 
illusion 
that 
the 
to 
to 
A/65/PV.21
in  cooperation  with 
implementation  of  the  Strategy  and  renew  the  call  for 
completion  of  negotiations  on  a  comprehensive 
convention on international terrorism. The Bahamas is 
a  full  partner  in  the  international  fight  to  combat 
terrorism  and  other  transnational  criminal  activities. 
We  currently  serve  as  Chair  of  the  Inter  American 
Committee against Terrorism. We were also pleased to 
host this past June a subregional workshop on counter-
terrorism  financing,  organized  by  the  Organization  of 
American  States 
the  United 
Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. 

The  Security  Council  is  central  to  international 
efforts aimed at fostering peace and improving security 
around the globe. We believe that the Council’s efforts 
in this regard would be strengthened if its composition 
better  reflected  the  geopolitical  realities  of  the  world. 
Towards  that  end,  the  Bahamas  lends  its  voice  to  the 
call  for  increased  urgency  in  efforts  to  make  the 
Security  Council  more  representative,  accountable, 
democratic and transparent. 

Crime and threats to security continue to occupy 
the minds of the people of the Bahamas and indeed of 
the  Caribbean  subregion.  International  traffic  in  illicit 
drugs  and  the  illicit  trade  in  small  arms  and  light 
weapons  have  for  many  years  disrupted  the  lives  of 
peace-loving  citizens  of  the  Caribbean.  Governments 
like my own  have been required to dedicate increased 
portions  of  our  annual  budgets  to  the  fight  against 
crime. The seemingly unlimited resources of the illegal 
cartels  continue  to  render  our  efforts  insufficient. 
Hence,  we  look  forward  with  anticipation  to  the  2012 
Conference,  whose  objective  is  the  conclusion  of  an 
arms trade treaty. We fully endorse, in that regard, calls 
from  fellow  Caribbean  countries  for  the  treaty  to  be 
comprehensive 
in  scope,  with  provisions  for  all 
categories of weapons. 

My Government also confirms its commitment to 
the  Programme  of  Action  to  Prevent,  Combat  and 
Eradicate  the  Illicit  Trade  in  Small  Arms  and  Light 
Weapons in All Its Aspects. We were pleased with the 
outcome  document  of  the  Fourth  Biennial  Meeting  of 
States (A/CONF.192/BMS/2010/3), which was adopted 
by consensus in June. 

I  record  the  appreciation  of  my  Government  for 
the  technical  assistance  recently  received  from  the 
United  Nations  Regional  Centre 
for  Peace  and 
Disarmament  in  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  in 
the  area  of 
firearms  destruction  and  stockpile 
10-55264 

13 
A/65/PV.21 

management. We look forward always to assistance in 
the future. 

The  Bahamas  applauds  the  General  Assembly’s 
proclamation of the year beginning on 12 August 2010 
as the International Year of Youth, under the theme of 
dialogue and mutual understanding. We believe that the 
overwhelming  majority  of  our  young  people  are 
creative  and  law-abiding  citizens. They  will  doubtless 
contribute and be a credit to their community and their 
country.  Regrettably,  however,  a  significant  minority, 
not unlike troubled youth throughout the world, find it 
difficult  to  overcome  the  challenges  presented  by 
poverty,  weak  educational  achievement,  risky  social 
behaviours, including drug and alcohol abuse, criminal 
activity and rising unemployment. 

A  recent  report  of  the  International  Labour 
Organization  found  that  young  people  aged  15  to 
24 accounted  for  22  per  cent  of  the  increase  in  the 
number of unemployed persons since the beginning of 
2007.  My  Government  is  therefore  seeking  to  further 
expand  educational  programmes  and  career-oriented 
training  opportunities  for  our  youth  by  enhancing  our 
secondary  school  curriculum  and  by  strengthening  the 
programmes  available  at  the  Bahamas  Technical  and 
Vocational Institute. 

the 
Organization  to  continue  to  bring  focus  to  women’s 
issues. We  applaud  the  adoption  of  resolution  64/289, 
which established a new gender entity — UN Women. 

We  also  applaud  the  recent  launch  of  the  United 
Nations  Global  Plan  of Action  to  Combat  Trafficking 
in  Persons.  Human 
a  growing 
phenomenon  in  our  region  and  is  increasingly  a 
challenge  for  us  in  the  Bahamas,  as  we  are  an 
archipelagic  nation  with  porous  borders.  My 
Government  is  therefore  committed  to  combating  that 
activity  and  to  intercepting  and  prosecuting  to  the 
fullest extent of the law those engaged in it. 
Building  on  its  ratification  in  2008  of  the 

Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in 
Persons, Especially Women and Children, the Bahamas 
enacted  child  protection  and  trafficking  legislation 
specially  designed  to  work  on  counter-trafficking.  We 
are fortunate that financing has been made available to 
representatives  of  relevant  Government  agencies  and 
key stakeholders. 
The  Bahamas  welcomes 
trafficking 
efforts 
by 
is 

thinking 
to  make 
in  realizing 

The Bahamas believes that the United Nations is 
working  diligently  under  its  mandate  to  facilitate 
increased  international  dialogue,  realizing  the  noble 
goals  set  out  in  its  Charter.  The  Bahamas  has  taken 
note  of  the  Secretary-General’s  announcement  of  a 
High-level  Panel  on  Global  Sustainability  as  a 
blueprint  for  a  liveable,  prosperous  and  sustainable 
future for all. 

My  delegation  fully  endorses  the  Secretary-
General  in  his  assertion  that  the  time  for  narrow 
agendas  and  narrow 
is  over.  As  an 
Organization,  we  must  continue  to  chart  a  course  that 
will enable us to meet unprecedented global challenges 
and translate our efforts into actions for the benefit of 
all.  The  rhetoric  must  become  reality.  We  all  have  a 
contribution 
the  goals  and 
objectives of the United Nations, based on the purposes 
and principles outlined in the Charter. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Nyan  Win,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Union of Myanmar. 
Mr. Win (Myanmar) (spoke in Burmese; English 

text  provided  by  the  delegation):  May  I,  on  behalf  of 
the Myanmar delegation and on my own behalf, begin 
by extending to the President our warm congratulations 
on  his  well-deserved  election  to  the  presidency  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session.  We  are 
confident  that  under  his  wise  and  able  leadership  our 
deliberations  will  produce  fruitful  results.  Allow  me 
also  to  express  my  delegation’s  appreciation  to  his 
predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki 
of the Libyan Arab Jamahiriya. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  the  United  Nations  is  the 
best forum for practising multilateralism to address the 
challenges  facing  the  world  today.  The  near-universal 
participation of the world’s nations in this global body 
is a living testimony to that. At the heart of its Charter 
lies the maintenance of international peace and security 
as the main noble purpose of the United Nations, which 
all Member States are committed to strive for. 
While  the  United  Nations  has  been  devoting  the 

larger  portion  of 
to  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security,  new  forms  of  global 
challenges  such  as  climate  change,  poverty,  hunger, 
water and energy insecurity have emerged and demand 
the 
international  community’s  urgent  and  careful 
attention. At the same time, humankind’s shared dream 
of  making  the  world  a  prosperous,  peaceful,  just  and 
its  attention 
14 

10-55264 
to 
to  stress 
for 
internal 
reform  measures, 
the  pressing  need 


secure place remains elusive. The world today remains 
full  of  inequality,  injustice,  conflict,  instances  of  the 
use  of  force,  interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of 
States  and  attempts 
impose  domination  on 
developing nations. 

Against that backdrop, the pre-eminent role of the 
United  Nations  in  advancing  peace,  security  and 
development must be asserted and enhanced in order to 
effectively  address  those  daunting  challenges.  We 
therefore  wish 
for 
strengthening  the  United  Nations  with  speedy  reform 
measures,  adapting  it  to  present-day  realities  in  order 
to  make  it  more  democratic  and  effective  in  meeting 
growing challenges. 

Myanmar  firmly  believes  that  any  reform  effort 
must  be  aimed  at  strengthening  the  central  role  of  the 
United  Nations  in  global  governance.  We  share  the 
widespread  view  that  the  United  Nations  must  be 
reformed  to  reflect  its  increasing  membership  and  to 
push 
including 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  and  reform  of 
the Security Council. We share the view that the reform 
of  the  Council  must  be  designed  to  make  it  more 
transparent,  more  efficient  and  more  accountable.  We 
also  support  the  idea  of  expanding  both  categories  of 
Council membership. 

With  only  five  years  remaining  before  the  target 
deadline, the international community must step up its 
efforts  to  realize  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs) by 2015. We therefore welcome the successful 
convening  of  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on  the 
MDGs and its sideline activities last week here in New 
York. While  important  improvements  have  been  made 
globally, progress towards  achieving our MDG targets 
is not sufficient as yet. 

Progress  remains  uneven  and  varies  from  region 
to  region.  While  national  Governments  have  the 
primary 
the 
international  community  must  help  by  creating  an 
environment that would enable developing countries to 
make  greater  strides  on  their  road  to  development. 
International  assistance  plays  an  important  catalytic 
role  in  the  developing  countries’  efforts  to  attain  their 
development goals. 

that 
fulfilment  by  developed  countries  of  their  official 
development 
increased 
investment flows, market access and resolution of debt 
to  ensure  progress, 
to  emphasize  here 
We 
therefore  wish 
responsibility 
assistance 
commitments, 
A/65/PV.21
problems  are  essential  to  enabling  the  developing 
countries  to  realize  their  MDG  targets.  It  is  high  time 
that  the  unjust  and  coercive  economic  measures  and 
trade  embargoes  that  are  hampering  the  attainment  of 
the  MDGs  and  the  development  of  the  developing 
countries, and thus hurting the people, be removed. 

We  are  pleased  to  report  that  despite  challenges, 
Myanmar has made certain progress towards achieving 
most of the eight MDGs in varying degrees, especially 
in areas such as poverty alleviation, food security and 
the promotion of education and health. 

As a party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  and  to  the  Treaty  on  the  South-
East Asia Nuclear Weapon Free Zone, Myanmar has all 
along recognized the legitimate right of every State to 
the  use  of  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes. 
However,  we  firmly  oppose 
the  proliferation  or 
production  of  nuclear  weapons  and  strongly  support 
any  efforts  leading  to  realization  of  the  vision  of  a 
nuclear-weapon-free world. 

Therefore  we  heartily  welcomed  the  signing  of 
the  New  START  treaty  by  the  leaders  of  the  United 
States  and  the  Russian  Federation  with  a  view  to 
reducing  their  respective  nuclear  arsenals.  It  gave  us 
hope and expectation with respect to the elimination of 
nuclear  weapons  and  further  reduction  and  limitation 
of  strategic  offensive  arms.  We  also  join  others  in 
calling  for 
into  force  and  full 
implementation of the New START treaty. 

In  our  noble  fight  against  growing  transnational 
crime and terrorism, no single country can act alone, as 
it requires a global solution and concerted action by the 
world’s nations. Myanmar unequivocally condemns all 
forms  and  manifestation  of  terrorism. We  are  working 
closely with the international community to strengthen 
our efforts and cooperation in regional and multilateral 
frameworks  in  order  to  prevent  and  combat  terrorism 
and transnational crime, such as illicit drug trafficking, 
trafficking  in  persons  and  cybercrime.  We  are  also 
working 
the 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  to  step  up 
efforts  to  deal  with  prevention,  control,  preparedness 
and response to pandemic diseases in our region. 

The  issue  of  climate  change  has  become  a 
pressing  global  challenge  that  threatens  humankind. 
The  environmental  problem  knows  no  national 
boundaries;  no  country  can  be  insulated  from  the 
consequences  of  climate  change.  The  unprecedented 
fellow  members  of 
the  early  entry 
together  with 
10-55264 

15 

to 
take 
technology 
together  with 
this  opportunity 
A/65/PV.21 

frequency and severity of recent natural disasters, such 
as the earthquake in Haiti, floods in China and Pakistan 
and heat waves around the world, clearly testify to the 
consequences of global climate change. 

Myanmar was also a victim of climate change in 
May 2008, when it was hit by the devastating Cyclone 
Nargis,  the  strongest  ever  in  our  history.  After  more 
than two years we are pleased to say that we have now 
passed  the  emergency  relief  stage  and  successfully 
rebuilt better in the affected areas through our massive 
reconstruction  efforts, 
the  United 
Nations,  ASEAN  and  the  international  community.  I 
wish 
to  express  our 
appreciation to the international community for all the 
humanitarian assistance to Myanmar in response to that 
natural disaster. 

In addressing the pressing global issue of climate 
change we must redouble our efforts not only to reduce 
harmful  greenhouse  gas  emissions  but  also  to  provide 
financial  resources  and 
to  developing 
countries  so  that  they  might  take  effective  mitigation 
and  adaptation  measures.  Although 
industrialized 
countries  are  mainly  responsible  for  climate  change, 
the developing countries are the most severely affected 
by  its  consequences.  Myanmar  therefore  believes  that 
any approach to address climate change must be based 
on 
the  principle  of  common  but  differentiated 
responsibilities and respective capabilities. 

We therefore look forward to the United Nations 
Climate  Change  Conference  in  Cancún,  Mexico,  later 
this year. We hope the negotiations in that Conference 
will  result  in  fruitful  outcomes  that  will  translate  into 
concrete  action  on  commitments  made  by 
the 
developed  countries  to  reduce  substantive  emissions 
and  to  assist  developing  countries  in  their  mitigation 
and adaptation efforts. 

May I take this opportunity to briefly apprise this 
Assembly  of  ongoing  political  developments  in  my 
country, Myanmar. 
Today,  Myanmar  is  at  a  critical  phase  of  its 

political 
transformation.  The  multiparty-democracy 
general  elections  are  set  to  be  held  on  7  November 
2010,  as  the  fifth  step  of  our  charted  political  road 
map.  A  total  of  37  political  parties,  including  those 
representing  various  ethnic  nationalities  and  groups, 
will take part. Over 3,000 candidates will contest for a 
total  of  1,171  seats  in  the  Peoples’  Parliament,  the 
National  Parliament  and  state/regional  parliaments. 
that 
closer 
Such a large participation has made it crystal clear that 
the elections have become virtually inclusive. Political 
parties  have  already  started  their  campaign  activities. 
The people will exercise their democratic right to elect 
the  representatives  of  their  choice  who  can  best  serve 
their interests. 

Based  upon  its  ample  experience  and  lessons 
learned 
in  holding  multiparty  general  elections, 
Myanmar  is  confident  of  its  ability  to  conduct  the 
elections  in  an  orderly  manner.  Whatever  challenges 
may face us, we are committed to do our best to hold 
successful,  free  and  fair  general  elections  in  the  best 
interest of the country and its people. 
As  our  new  State  Constitution  subscribes  to  the 

present  foreign  policy,  we  believe 
the  new 
Government to emerge after the elections will continue 
to embrace the policy of maintaining and strengthening 
friendly relations with all nations and will work closely 
with  the  United  Nations.  Myanmar  looks  forward  to 
strengthening 
the 
engagements  with 
international community in the post election era. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  George  Yeo,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Singapore. 
the  global 

economic  situation  has  improved  considerably,  it  is 
still  fragile.  Much  of  the  relief  has  come  from  the 
massive liquidity that has been pumped into the global 
financial system by national Governments. That bought 
us  time  to  restructure  our  economies  and  correct  the 
underlying imbalances that led to the crisis in the first 
place. 

is  happening  fast 
enough  is,  however,  still  an  open  question.  The 
economist 
Joseph  Schumpeter  viewed  economic 
downturns  as  the  system  renewing  itself,  a  process  he 
described as creative destruction. In theory, that sounds 
good.  In  practice,  it  is  difficult  for  political  leaders  to 
stand  idly  by  when  companies  go  bust  and  jobs  are 
lost.  Everyone  likes  the  creative  part.  Destruction, 
however,  can  mean 
losing  an  election,  which 
politicians invariably try to avoid. 

The  repricing  of  production  factors  such  as  real 
estate and labour is politically sensitive in any country, 
and Governments get blamed for it. Adjusting relative 
factor costs through the exchange rate is usually easier 
to  achieve,  although  currency  devaluation  can  create 
(Singapore):  Although 
the  restructuring 
Mr.  Yeo
Whether 
16 

10-55264 
in 
has 
that 
the  world 
become  more 


other  problems  such  as  inflation.  The  argument  over 
fair  exchange  rates 
today  reflects 
competing  domestic  pressures  to  ease  the  pain  of 
restructuring  in  different  countries.  Thus  the  United 
States wants China to revalue the yuan renminbi, while 
China protests that it is being blamed for the economic 
weaknesses of other countries. 

Of  course,  if  the  whole  world  were  to  use  the 
same currency, the only way countries would be able to 
adjust  would  be  through  improved  productivity  and 
repricing.  Exchange  rate  adjustments  can  facilitate 
structural  adjustment,  provided 
the  deeper 
economic  problems  are  also  tackled.  With  the  world 
global  macroeconomic 
becoming  multipolar, 
coordination 
complicated. 
Recognizing the inability of the Group of Seven or the 
Group  of  Eight  to  achieve  such  coordination,  the 
Group  of  20  (G-20)  was  formed  two  years  ago  when 
the  global  economy  stared  into  an  abyss  after  the 
collapse of Lehman Brothers. Without the G-20 acting 
in concert, the economic crisis could well have led to a 
global depression. The G-20 — the members of which 
collectively  account  for  some  85  per  cent  of  total 
global  gross  domestic  product  —  is  therefore  a  vital 
grouping in the community of nations. 

Going  forward,  the  G-20  has  to  go  beyond  the 
reform of international financial institutions and better 
coordination  of  fiscal,  monetary  and  exchange  rate 
policies. Without fundamental restructuring of the real 
economy,  we  may  experience  a  double  dip.  Without 
fundamental  restructuring,  increased  liquidity  in  the 
global system will end up  creating  new  asset  bubbles, 
some of which we already see forming in Asia. For this 
restructuring  to  take  place,  the  international  trading 
system must be kept open. Only then can markets make 
adjustments  and  prices  find  their  right  levels.  In 
fighting protectionism in all its forms, the leadership of 
the  G-20  is  critical.  If,  for  lack  of  political  will,  the 
G-20 is unable to avert the crisis of a second dip, crisis 
will in the end force it to act, and by then it will be at 
much greater human cost to all of us. 

For  precisely  that  reason,  we  must  not  allow 
interest  in  the  Doha  Development  Agenda  to  flag. 
When  the  Doha  Round  was  launched  in  November 
2001, a key consideration was development. For many 
of  us  who  were  in  Doha  during  the  negotiations,  the 
Millennium Development Goals were uppermost in our 
minds.  I  remember  Tanzanian  trade  minister  Iddi 
Simba  insisting,  on  behalf  of  the  African,  Caribbean 
A/65/PV.21
in 
to 
take 
into  account, 
and Pacific countries, that the word “development” be 
explicitly incorporated into the name of the new round. 

It  has  been  10  years  since  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  were 
launched.  While  some 
countries  have  done  well,  many  others  have  not.  The 
G-20  countries  must 
their 
deliberations,  the  interest  of  all  countries,  not  only  of 
their  own.  The  G-20,  which  together  accounts  for 
80 per  cent  of  international  trade,  has  to  play  a 
leadership  role  in  breaking  the  current  impasse  in  the 
Doha  negotiations.  In  particular,  we  must  ensure  that 
the needs of developing countries, especially the needs 
of  the  least  developed  countries  (LDCs),  are  met. 
Freeing up agricultural trade, for example, will make a 
huge difference to their welfare. 

With those concerns in mind, a loose grouping of 
countries  calling  itself  the  Global  Governance  Group, 
or  3G,  was  established  more  than  a  year  ago.  Its 
objectives were spelled out in a document circulated to 
the  Members  of  the  United  Nations  on  1  March.  The 
basic stance of the Group is to support the work of the 
it  accountable 
G-20  and  hold 
the  general 
membership  of 
the  United  Nations.  Permanent 
Representatives within the 3G Group meet regularly in 
New  York,  including  before  and  after  G-20  meetings, 
to  present  views  and  make  suggestions,  which  are 
the  United  Nations. 
circulated 
Depending  on 
invite 
individual  members  of  the  G-20  to  join  us  at  our 
meetings.  For  example,  in  preparation  for  the  coming 
G-20  Summit  in  Seoul,  the  3G  Group  had  several 
meetings  with  senior  Korean  officials,  including  their 
G-20  “Sherpa”,  to  convey  some  of  our  views  and 
concerns. 

A major concern of the countries of the Group is 
development.  In  this  regard,  we  have  prepared  inputs 
to  be  submitted  to  the  G-20  working  group  on 
development. It is good that both Korea as the current 
Chair of the G-20 and France as the incoming Chair are 
pushing development on the agenda. 

Let  us  be  clear  at  the  outset  that  development  is 
not  principally  about  aid. Whether  a  people  is  able  to 
lift itself from the depths of poverty depends more on 
internal  than  external  factors.  Good  governance  is,  of 
course,  paramount.  Investing  in  the  inherent  potential 
of  citizens  and  creating  a  favourable  environment  for 
that  potential  to  be  realized  are  central  to  good 
governance.  We  would  like  to  commend  President 
the  subjects  discussed,  we 
to  everyone  at 
10-55264 

17 

A  critical  element 
in  good  governance 
A/65/PV.21 

Deiss on his decision to make “Reaffirming the central 
role  of  the  United  Nations  in  global  governance”  the 
theme of this General Assembly. It is most timely. 

is 
education.  With  education,  individuals  are  able  to 
acquire  the  information  and  knowledge  they  need  to 
add value to the world. Aid that helps a people to build 
up  its  internal  strength  is  valuable.  Aid  that  creates 
dependency  is  harmful.  With  education,  a  citizenry  is 
more  able  to  insist  on  democratic  safeguards  against 
the  abuse  of  power  and  corruption.  Taking  full 
advantage of globalization and information technology, 
we  can  now  spread  education  into  remote  corners  of 
the world. 

One  of  the  most  important  developments  in  the 
world  today  is  the  widespread  availability  of  cheap 
mobile  phones,  often  with  built-in  cameras.  Mobile 
phones  have  altered  traditional  power  relationships 
everywhere  where  they  are  available.  No  longer  can 
individuals  be  kept  ignorant  and  exploited  for  long, 
because they have alternatives. As smart phones fall in 
price  —  which  they  are  bound  to  do  —  social 
networking 
like  Facebook,  which 
already  has  half  a  billion  users  in  the  world,  will 
radically  change  the  world  we  live  in.  Without  being 
planned  for  or  financed  by  any  national  Government, 
Facebook 
important  social 
infrastructure  in  the  world  today.  It  is  an  astonishing 
phenomenon.  Yet,  it  is  only  one  wave  of  many  more 
waves to come. 

Whether  we  like  it  or  not,  the  revolution  in 
technology — not only information technology but also 
in  genetics,  material  science  and  other  fields  —  will 
cause  the  creative  destruction  that  many  politicians 
dread.  Communities  and  Governments  that  work  with 
technological  change  will  surge  ahead,  while  those 
fighting  change  will  be  left  behind.  In  this  new  age, 
those who are wedded to dogma and ideology become 
stuck  in  the  past.  Therefore,  when  we  talk  about 
development, the key is education. 

We must make sure that basic conditions are met, 
that  children  are  fed  and  healthy  and  that  no  group  is 
discriminated against on the basis of ethnicity, religion 
or  gender.  The  knowledge  needed  for  development  is 
already  available  in  the  world,  and  delivery  systems 
can be readily put into place. 
Unfortunately, there are many obstacles impeding 

the  flow  of  knowledge.  Protectionism  is  a  major 
infrastructures 
is  arguably 
the  most 
as 
an 
centres 
the 
organic 
process 
Urbanization 
knowledge-intensive 
obstacle.  It  slows 
the  spread  of  education  and 
knowledge. Throughout history, every time a new trade 
route is established, knowledge flows along it, enabling 
the  relatively  backward  to  catch  up.  Our  inability  to 
move  the  Doha  Development  Agenda  forward  is 
particularly injurious to LDCs. 

An  important  way  to  help  communities  acquire 
more knowledge and use information better is to foster 
the  growth  of  liveable  cities.  To  develop,  countries 
have to urbanize, and in the coming decades large parts 
of  the  world  will  be  urbanized  on  every  continent. 
China  during  Mao  Zedong’s  time  was  20  per  cent 
urban. Today, it is almost half urban. In 20 years’ time 
it  will  reach  the  same  level  of  urbanization  as Taiwan 
or  countries  like  Korea  and  Japan,  which  are  over  90 
per cent urban. 

of 
development can be healthy or unhealthy. Cities can be 
energy-efficient, 
of 
production,  education  and  sustainable  living,  or  they 
can  be  hellholes  festering  with  poor  education, 
unemployment, 
inequality,  crime  and  pollution. 
Because  of  the  specific  challenges  that  we  had  to 
overcome in our own development, Singapore has been 
promoting 
sharing  of  urban  developmental 
experiences  as  a  practical  way  to  help  countries 
develop 
in  areas  such  as  public  administration, 
low-cost  housing,  water  management,  transportation 
planning and better logistics. Developing countries that 
are  urbanizing  rapidly  —  and  they  have  to  do  so  in 
order  to  develop  —  should  not  have  to  repeat  the 
mistakes of those who have gone before them. 

All of us have a vested interest in  the growth of 
liveable cities in the third world. For example, carbon 
emissions 
reduced  without  healthy 
urbanization. We hope that fostering liveable cities will 
become  a  major  objective  of  the  G-20  countries.  The 
best  form  of  aid  we  can  provide  is  knowledge  and 
training.  Two  years  ago,  Singapore  signed  an 
agreement  with  the  World  Bank  to  establish  an  urban 
hub for the dissemination of knowledge about liveable 
cities. 

urban 
A 
development  is  good  water  management,  which  has 
become  a  major  challenge  in  various  parts  of  the 
world.  We  should  do  much  more  to  learn  from  one 
another’s experiences, especially in the face of growing 
weather  volatility.  Last  Friday,  Slovenia  convened  a 
requirement 
cannot  be 
for 
healthy 
basic 
18 

10-55264 


Green  Group  meeting  involving  a  small  group  of 
countries  to  discuss  the  subject  of  water  management, 
which  we  hope  will  be  given  more  attention  in  the 
future. 
Despite  the  concerns  about  the  global  economy, 

never  before  have 
the  prospects  of  bringing 
development  into  every  continent  been  so  promising. 
This  is  not  to  say  that  outcomes  will  be  equalized. 
Human  beings  as  individuals  and  in  groups  are 
competitive  by  nature,  and  we  must  expect  that  some 
will do better than others at any point in time. Indeed, 
by  learning  from  the  successes  and  mistakes  of  front-
runners,  human  communities  often  leapfrog  over  one 
another,  and  this  is  a  historical  process.  Competition, 
however,  should  be  conducted  in  a  civilized  way  and 
within  an  overall  global  framework  and  value  system 
that recognizes our global humanity and destiny. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Walid  Al  Moualem,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Syrian Arab Republic. 
Mr. Al-Moualem  (Syrian Arab  Republic)  (spoke 

in Arabic): Allow me to congratulate Mr. Joseph Deiss 
personally,  as  well  as  his  country,  Switzerland,  on  his 
election  to  the  presidency  of  the  sixty-fifth  session  of 
the General Assembly. His experience and competence 
qualify him to ably discharge his responsibilities, and I 
wish him every success in his endeavours. I also thank 
his predecessor, Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki, and extend 
to  him  and  his  fraternal  country  our  appreciation  for 
his  skilful  stewardship  of  the  work  of  the  General 
Assembly  during  the  previous  session.  I  would  also 
like 
the  Secretary-General  our 
appreciation  and  wishes  for  success  in  fulfilling  the 
tasks entrusted to him. 
The  Middle  East  region  has  been  rife  with 

tensions  for  many  decades.  It  has  survived  major 
events  and  numerous  wars. The  policies,  interests  and 
trends that have unfolded on its soil have converged at 
times  but  clashed  at  others.  Due  to  its  geographic 
location,  the  Middle  East  influences  neighbouring 
countries  in  Asia,  Europe  and  Africa  and  is,  in  turn, 
influenced by them. Syria, which lies at the heart of the 
Middle  East,  has  experienced  these  tensions,  policies, 
events and outcomes and has reacted to them. 

This fact — which has spelled both positive and 
negative consequences for the Syrian Arab Republic — 
prompted  us  to  define  our  perspective  in  addressing 
the  nature  of  our 
external 
issues,  particularly 
to  express 
to 
A/65/PV.21
as 
to 
opposed 
insularity, 
that  peace 
international  relations.  Safeguarding  and  sustaining 
Syrian and Arab interests is our priority. Therefore, our 
door  remains  open  for  an  in  depth  and  meaningful 
dialogue  aimed  at  reconciling  differences  with  others 
and  reaching  common  ground  on  the  basis  of  which 
progress  can  be  made.  That  was  our  response  when 
Syria  endured  attempts  to  isolate  and  blockade  it,  a 
response we reaffirm today as Syria discharges its role 
as a major player in matters related to the security and 
stability  of  the  region.  We  believe  that  civilized 
international  relations  must  be  built  on  openness  and 
dialogue 
isolation, 
confrontation  and  aggression.  This  is  our  approach, 
which  we  hope  will  prevail  in  a  world  driven  by 
multiple  interests  and  perspectives,  overwhelmed  by 
problems  and  complications,  yet  at  the  same  time 
sustained by hopes and noble visions. 

The  world  has  declared  that  it  is  determined  to 
achieve a just and comprehensive peace in the Middle 
East,  and  has  stressed 
is  an  urgent 
prerequisite  for 
the  maintenance  of  security  and 
stability  in  the  region.  In  Israel,  there  is  much  talk 
about  peace,  yet  the  drums  of  war  continue  to  sound. 
Land  appropriation  for  settlement-building  goes  on 
unabated. Peace negotiations, we are told, are currently 
under  way  on  the  basis  of  the  two-State  solution,  but 
settlement  activities  are  about  to  make  this  two-State 
solution a dead letter that stands no chance of survival. 
Israel  is  intensely  pursuing  its  Judaization  plans  for 
Jerusalem  in  order  to  depopulate  it  of  its  Palestinian 
inhabitants.  Israeli  actions  threaten 
the  safety  of 
Jerusalem’s  holy  sites.  Through  settlement  activities, 
actions  and  declarations  concerning  Jerusalem,  Israel 
pursues a fait accompli policy on the basis of which it 
imposes  its  will  regardless  of  whether  negotiations 
continue or stall. 

Peace  can  be  genuine  only  if  there  is  a  genuine 
will  to  make  peace.  That  is  the  litmus  test.  Political 
manoeuvres during negotiations under the umbrella of 
the desire for peace strain and exacerbate the situation 
and may make it more volatile and explosive. 
Syria  seeks  a  just  and  comprehensive  peace 

achieved 
implementation  of  Security 
Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 338 (1973), and the 
Arab  Peace  Initiative.  Our  position  has  been  known 
and declared for years. We have the will to make peace 
and  we  are  the  masters  of  our  decision,  which  is 
unwavering.  The  occupied  Syrian  Golan 
is  not 
negotiable  nor  is  it  a  bargaining  chip.  Recognition  of 
through 
the 
10-55264 

19 

through 
improvement 
they  stopped, 
(A/HRC/15/21).  We 
A/65/PV.21 

the  fact  that  it  must  be  returned  fully  is  the  basis  on 
which  peacemaking  arrangements  should  be  made. 
Syria  is  ready  to  resume  peace  negotiations  from  the 
point  where 
the  Turkish 
mediator, if it finds in Israel a partner committed to the 
terms of reference of peacemaking, and if that partner 
has the political will to achieve peace. 

We note with satisfaction the objective opinion of 
the  report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  fact-finding 
mission investigating the Israeli attack on the freedom 
flotilla  that  was  headed  to  Gaza  on  an  exclusively 
humanitarian  mission 
look 
forward to the conclusions to be drawn from the report 
of the international commission now that the necessary 
legal  grounds  and  supporting  evidence  have  been 
established by the Human Rights Council’s fact-finding 
mission. 

Syria  is  a  fraternal  Arab  neighbour  of  Iraq.  For 
us, Iraq thus  remains  a subject of interest and a cause 
for  concern,  particularly  when  the  situation  there 
deteriorates.  We  embrace  any 
in 
conditions  there  with  a  major  sense  of  relief.  The 
restoration of Iraq’s full sovereignty and independence, 
the  preservation  of  its  Arab  and  Islamic  identity,  the 
unity  of  its  people  and  its  territorial  integrity  are  of 
utmost  priority  for  our  approach  towards  Iraq  and  its 
future.  Undoubtedly,  national  unity 
remains 
the 
cornerstone of a secure, prosperous and strong Iraq. 

We  have  called  for  the  withdrawal  of  all  foreign 
forces from Iraq. In this context, the partial withdrawal 
of  the  American  forces  from  Iraq  constitutes,  in  our 
view,  a  positive  first  step  in  the  direction  of  Iraq’s 
assumption  of  its  power  over  its  own  affairs  and  the 
restoration  of  its  full  sovereignty  over  its  territories. 
We  hope  that  Iraq  will  ultimately  develop  strong 
military  and  security  capabilities  to  safeguard  its 
internal  security  and  safety  as  an  independent  and 
sovereign State. 

It  should  be  reiterated  that  Iraqi  security  is 
contingent  upon  its  national  unity  and  is  based  on  its 
Arab-Islamic 
the 
participation  of  all  segments  of  Iraqi  society  in 
building  their  country’s  present  and  future.  Syria  is 
willing to cooperate with Iraq in every aspect to serve 
Iraq’s  interests  and  the  common  interests  of  our  two 
fraternal countries. 
the 

country 
establishment  of  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the 
the  principle  of 
identity  and 
advocating 
My 
has 
been 
to 
Middle  East  since  2003,  a  demand  we  included  in  a 
draft resolution we presented to the Security Council at 
the  time.  We  continue  to  stress  that  Israel  must  be 
made to comply with international decisions calling on 
it  to  adhere  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  and  to  submit  its  nuclear 
installations to the comprehensive International Atomic 
Energy Agency safeguards regime. Israel’s accession to 
the  Treaty  is  of  extreme  significance  for  the  security 
and stability of our region. 

We often wonder why some States talk about the 
universality  of  the  NPT  but  hasten  to  make  strenuous 
efforts  to  shelter  Israel  from  the  Agency’s  oversight. 
They are encouraging Israel to continue to develop its 
nuclear  military  programme,  which  is  a  cause  of 
concern  to  the  people  of  the  region.  Furthermore,  this 
policy  of  double  standards  runs  counter 
the 
non-proliferation prerequisites, not only  in the Middle 
East region, but also in the world at large. 

We  reaffirm  that  all  States  have  the  right  to 
acquire  nuclear  technology  for  peaceful  uses,  as 
guaranteed  by  the  NPT.  We  also  call  for  the  peaceful 
resolution of all disputes relevant to this aspect through 
dialogue. 
Syria  follows  the  developments  in  the  Sudan 

because  we  are  dedicated 
the  Sudan’s  unity, 
sovereignty,  security  and  stability.  In  that  context,  we 
are  grateful  to  the  State  of  Qatar,  the  League  of Arab 
States and the African Union for their efforts. We also 
appreciate  and  support  the  African  Union’s  efforts  in 
settling disputes in the Sudan and other conflict zones 
on  the  African  continent,  and  in  promoting  Africa’s 
role within the international system. 

embargo that has been imposed on Cuba for decades. 

suffered  numerous  natural 
disasters  this  year  resulting  from  climate  change  and 
global  warming.  We  all  know  that  these  disasters  are 
but a prelude to more severe and wider-scale calamities 
that could well threaten natural life on this planet. We 
have  an  obligation  towards  nature,  yet  we  have 
exceeded all limits in abusing it. 

the 
warnings  of  scientists  and  the  ominous  signals  from 
nature.  We  must  rise  to  this  serious  challenge  and 
assume our historic responsibility, so as to make up for 
past imbalances and shortcomings. 
We  also  strongly  reiterate  our  call  to  lift  the 
Many  countries  have  chosen 
The  world  has 
ignore 
to 
to 
20 

10-55264 
legally 
binding 
and 
in  order 
in  Pakistan,  a 
The  painful  situation 



We look forward to an expression of international 
solidarity  in  Cancún,  Mexico,  based  on  scientific 
evidence  and  on 
the  principle  of  common  but 
differentiated  responsibilities.  It  is  our  hope  that  the 
Cancún outcome will take into account the priorities of 
to  arrive  at  a 
sustainable  development 
comprehensive 
post-2012 
framework  agreement. We  believe  that  it  is  extremely 
important  to  address  the  shortcomings  of  Copenhagen 
and  to  renew  the  commitment  to  the  Bali Action  Plan 
and the premises of the Kyoto Protocol. 

typical 
symptom of climate change, is yet another example of 
the devastating disasters that we must expect unless we 
work  seriously  and  collectively  to  address  this  grave 
situation.  The  people  and  Government  of  my  country, 
Syria,  wholeheartedly  sympathize  with  Pakistan  and 
other  disaster-stricken  countries.  I  stress  the  urgent 
need for States to increase assistance to Pakistan, both 
in  cash  and  in  kind,  to  mitigate  the  tragic  and 
widespread  damage  there  and  prevent  any  further 
exacerbation of the situation. 

We aspire to a better, more just and secure world 
and look forward to strengthening and  revitalizing the 
role of the United Nations and guaranteeing respect for 
international law. We must not forget, though, that our 
planet  Earth  is  home  to  the  world  we  are  aspiring  to 
build.  This  home 
is  besieged  by  an  ominous 
phenomenon,  climate  change,  which  entails  tragic 
consequences  for  humanity.  This  year  was  only  a 
prelude to what is yet to come. We sincerely hope that 
the  Cancún  conference  will  be  the  herald  of  a  direly 
needed rescue effort. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Muhammad  Mumuni,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs and Regional Integration of Ghana. 
(Ghana):  Let  me  begin  by 

congratulating  the  President  of  the  Assembly  on  his 
election to lead the Assembly at its sixty-fifth session. I 
trust  that  he  will,  with his  outstanding  experience  and 
excellent  diplomatic  skills,  steer  this  Assembly  to  a 
successful  conclusion.  I  also  wish 
thank  his 
predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki, 
for  the  efficient  and  able  manner  with  which  he 
presided over the Assembly at its sixty-fourth session. 

the 
African  Union  Assembly  of  Heads  of  State  and 
Government  that  designated  2010  as  a  year  of  peace 
the  declaration  by 
Ghana  subscribes 
Mr.  Mumuni
to 
to 
A/65/PV.21
it 
is 
to 
time 
the  work  of 
to  have  served  on 
and security. Ghana will, therefore, continue to engage 
other  member  States  in  the  search  for  peace  and 
security  in  places  on  the  African  continent  that  have 
known  no  peace,  and  we  will  contribute  to  renewed 
global  efforts  to  prevent  conflicts  through  preventive 
diplomacy, peacekeeping and peacebuilding. 

As  we  witness  a  decline  in  the  number  of  the 
violent conflicts that afflicted many countries over the 
to  renew  our 
past  decade  or  more, 
commitment 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission in order to ensure that countries emerging 
from  conflict do not  relapse into  violence. Ghana was 
privileged 
the  organizational 
committee  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  (PBC) 
and will remain actively involved in the pursuit of the 
attainment  of  the  strategic  objectives  set  for  the  post-
conflict  countries  on  the  agenda  of  the  Commission’s 
country-specific  configuration.  In  this  regard,  Ghana 
supports the steps being taken to also place Liberia on 
the agenda of the Commission. 

As  agreed  by  world  leaders  in  2005,  Ghana 
strongly  supports  the  principle  of  the  responsibility  to 
protect  as  the  normative  framework  to  prevent  and 
deter  the  occurrence  of  genocide,  war  crimes,  crimes 
against  humanity  and  ethnic  cleansing,  which  have 
occurred  in  many  countries  that  were  emerging  from 
conflict. While the fear of its abuse does not take away 
the intrinsic value of the principle of the responsibility 
to protect, caution must be exercised in order to avoid 
its  abuse.  The  principle  is  not  intended  to  undermine 
the  sovereignty  of  States;  on  the  contrary,  it  is  to 
ensure  that  sovereign  responsibility  is  exercised  in  a 
manner  that  will  prevent  a  repetition  of  the  mass 
atrocities that were experienced in places like Rwanda, 
Srebrenica,  Cambodia  and  Sierra  Leone,  with 
devastating impacts on neighbouring countries. 
Sadly,  in  many  places,  some  of  those  conflicts 

persist 
intensity.  The 
international  community  must  be  ready  and  willing  to 
assist  national  authorities  who  request  such  assistance 
with a view to developing or enhancing the capacity of 
countries  that  are  manifestly  unable  or  unwilling  to 
uphold  this  responsibility  to  do  so.  To  that  end,  we 
welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  proposal  to  establish 
a joint office to coordinate United Nations system-wide 
efforts to strengthen  early  warning mechanisms aimed 
at  ensuring  timely  and  decisive  preventive  action 
and/or intervention in appropriate cases, in accordance 
with the United Nations Charter. 
in  varying  degrees  of 
10-55264 

21 

the 
to 
achieve 
countries 
impressive  recent  progress 
infrastructure,  brain  drain  and 
A/65/PV.21 


While  the  reduction  of  extreme  poverty  and 
hunger  is  a  major  development  challenge  for  Africa, 
most countries in the region are also grappling with the 
problems  of  climate  change,  a  high  disease  burden, 
poor 
lack  of 
development  of  productive  capacity.  In  the  last  few 
years,  African  countries  have  had  to  deal  with  the 
effects  of  rising  food  and  energy  prices  and  the 
complications  arising  from  the  global  financial  and 
economic  crisis.  Those  multiple  crises  have  not  only 
reversed 
in  economic 
performance,  but  are  also  jeopardizing  efforts  by 
African 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). 
It  is  gratifying  to  see  that  the  interests  of  the 

in  climate  change  have 
international  community 
increased markedly in recent times, especially after the 
adoption  of  the  Bali Action  Plan  in  2007. We  need  to 
sustain  that  interest  and  build  on  the  common  ground 
that was first found in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, with the 
establishment  of 
the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change, and was subsequently 
built  on 
in  Berlin,  Kyoto,  Marrakech,  Bali, 
Copenhagen and, soon, Cancún. 

There  are  issues  that  need  to  be  addressed  for 
progress  in  Cancún  and  beyond.  What  is  missing  is  a 
demonstrable political will. Without that, countries will 
not  see  the  need  to  raise  their  ambitions  to  cut 
emissions.  Industrialized  countries  have  made  pledges 
to cut emissions by 2020. However commendable those 
commitments  may  be,  they  fall  short  of  the  25  to 
40 per  cent  cut  that  the  Intergovernmental  Panel  on 
Climate  Change  says  will  give  the  world  a  chance  of 
staying  below  the  recommended  two-degree  average 
global temperature rise. 

We need to preserve the Kyoto Protocol, which is 
currently  the  only  existing  international  agreement 
with legal status to verify emission reductions. That is 
why  it  is  critical  for  all  parties  to  work  together  to 
address the divisions over a second commitment period 
for  the  Kyoto  Protocol  and  ensure  its  continuity  after 
2012. 

Just  as  there  was  “aid  fatigue”,  developing 
countries may soon be experiencing “promise fatigue”. 
We must get the numerous pledges out of the fine print 
and  make  them  work  for  humanity.  I  am  simply 
appealing 
their 
funding pledges, including the $30 billion in fast-track 
industrialized  nations 
to  fulfil 
to 
and 
social 
sustainable 
financing  for  developing  country  adaptation  and 
mitigation efforts through 2012, and the pledge to raise 
$100 billion a year by 2020. For developing countries, 
the  early  delivery  and  transparent  allocation  of  that 
money  will  boost  our  confidence  in  the  dialogue  and 
show  that  industrialized  countries  are  truly  committed 
to progress in the broader negotiations. 

We have made progress in the implementation of 
the  MDG  agenda.  However,  keeping  the  solemn 
promise we made in 2000 and achieving the Goals by 
2015  will  require  intensified  efforts,  much  more 
resources and effective cooperation. No one should be 
oblivious to the enormous challenges African and other 
developing countries face in their efforts to achieve the 
MDGs. 

Ghana will not compromise under any guise in its 
pursuit  of  good  governance  and  the  promotion  of  the 
rule  of  law,  as  these  are  important  prerequisites  for 
achieving 
economic 
development. African countries themselves have come 
to  acknowledge  that  part  of  the  reason  for  their 
impoverishment  could  be  ascribed 
to  poor  post-
independence  governance  practices.  That  is  why  most 
African countries have taken steps to consolidate their 
governance  institutions,  including  strengthening  the 
electoral system. 

Food security is a national priority for Ghana. For 
most  Ghanaians,  getting  enough  good-quality  food  at 
affordable prices is a major concern. The Government 
is  therefore  implementing  a  progressive  agricultural 
policy that will ensure increased production, especially 
in  staples  and  other  food  crops  that  our  climate  and 
land can efficiently support. 

Ghana  will  soon  become  an  important  producer 
of  oil  and  gas.  The  focus  of  the  Government  is  to 
ensure that Ghanaians will derive the maximum benefit 
from oil production. Although oil revenues will start to 
flow  around  the  fourth  quarter  of  the  year,  the 
Government 
ensure 
accountability  and  transparency  in  the  management  of 
revenue from oil production. To that end, an oil and gas 
revenue  management  bill  has  been  submitted 
to 
Parliament for approval. In addition, the Government is 
holding a series of consultations with several countries 
and  private  operators  who  have  expertise  and 
experience in the field so that their knowledge  can be 
tapped and best practices adopted. 
taking  measures 
to 
is 
22 

10-55264 
the 
including 
international  environment 



In our efforts to create wealth and prosperity for 
our  citizens,  Ghana  has  made  attracting  foreign 
investment  an  important  pillar  in  its  development 
strategies. We will continue to pursue such policies in 
the  belief  that  our  efforts  will  be  supported  and 
rewarded with genuine partnership. 

Africa  is  tired  of  the  misery  and  poverty  arising 
from  resource-induced  violent  conflicts.  Africa  wants 
to use its oil and natural resources to create wealth for 
its  citizens.  We  call  on  the  United  Nations  and 
well-meaning  development  partners, 
the 
international  business  community, 
to  support  our 
efforts  to  nip  the  so-called  resource  curse  in  the  bud 
and  exploit  our  God-given  natural  endowments  for 
development. 

Whereas 
for 
growth in Africa is still favourable, the risks posed by 
global  imbalances  and  external  shocks,  such  as  the 
recent  financial  crisis,  call  for  increased  international 
policy  coordination.  We  need  a  renewed  spirit  of 
solidarity and commitment for a comprehensive global 
response  if  we  are  to  confront  the  challenges  of  our 
time. 

It is in that light that Ghana wishes to reaffirm its 
commitment  to  the  ideals  of  the  United  Nations  and 
continue to live up to its Charter obligations, including 
playing an active role in international peacekeeping, in 
order 
task  of 
maintaining  global  peace  and  security  and  promoting 
fruitful  and  beneficial  cooperation  among  Member 
States. We must resolve to muster the political  will to 
strengthen  the  United  Nations  so  that  it  can  function 
effectively  and  redeem  the  majority  of  our  peoples 
from  wars,  diseases  and  poverty  by  providing  the 
financial  and  material  resources  required  to  discharge 
those onerous responsibilities. 

those 
responsibilities that we can give meaning to the phrase 
“We the peoples of the United Nations”. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Makhdoom  Shah  Mehmood  Qureshi, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Islamic Republic of 
Pakistan. 
Mr.  Qureshi  (Pakistan):  I  wish  to  congratulate 

the President of the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth 
session  on  his  election. As  one  of  the Vice-Presidents 
at  this  session,  we  assure  him  of  our  full  support  and 
is  only  when  we  measure  up 
the  Organization 
to  assist 
in 
its 
It 
to 
A/65/PV.21
to 
in 
the 
friends 
the  Assembly  on 
cooperation.  I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  convey 
profound gratitude and appreciation to my brother, Ali 
Treki,  the  outgoing  President,  for  his  able  leadership 
during  the  sixty-fourth  session.  Pakistan  owes  him 
gratitude for his timely initiative to convene a plenary 
meeting  of 
the  humanitarian 
emergency  arising  from  the  floods  in  Pakistan  (see 
A/64/PV.110). 

I  come  to  the  Assembly  at  a  difficult  time  in 
Pakistan’s history. The recent flash floods — the worst 
in  living  memory  —  have  left  behind  a  trail  of  death 
and destruction. Precious lives have been lost, millions 
of acres of crops have been washed away, homes have 
been destroyed and livelihoods have been lost. We are 
the  United  Nations,  our  development 
grateful 
partners  and  other 
international 
community  for  standing  up  with  us  in  this  difficult 
hour and for their important contribution in supporting 
rescue and relief operations in Pakistan. 

The Government remains focused in its resolve to 
address  the  challenges  posed  by  that  humanitarian 
crisis. We are determined to rebuild a better and vibrant 
Pakistan and to do so in a transparent and accountable 
manner. The resilience of our people should enable us 
to achieve that. 

We  live  in  an  ever  more  interconnected  and 
interdependent  world,  a  world  where  our  fate  and 
destinies  are  interwoven  like  never  before,  a  world 
where it is increasingly difficult to maintain islands of 
peace  and  prosperity  while  conflicts,  oppression  and 
adversity fester. We live in a world where dividends of 
peace are shared as easily as the fallout of adversity or 
instability. 

Today, we face an integrated onslaught of a series 
of new and emerging challenges that seriously threaten 
economic  growth  and  development,  social  cohesion 
and  environmental  protection  in  our  countries.  We 
clearly have reached a decisive moment. We will have 
to  make  wise  and  well-considered  choices  that  bring 
peace  and  prosperity  to  our  world  at  present  while 
protecting and preserving it for future generations. 

The  response  is  simple:  global  problems  require 
global  solutions.  The  world  needs  a  new  multilateral 
approach  that  truly  subscribes  to  the  values  and 
principles  that  we,  the  peoples  of  the  United  Nations, 
signed on to 65 years ago. 
10-55264 

23 
define 
in  global 
collaboration 
that  unites  and  does  not  divide 
A/65/PV.21 


The  United  Nations  Charter  envisages  a  world 
where  equity  is  valued  as  much  as  entitlement,  where 
inclusiveness  replaces  exclusiveness,  where  dialogue 
and 
engagement,  where 
transparency  and  openness  guide  business  and 
decision-making 
institutions.  Full  and 
unconditional adherence to those values and principles 
is  what  will  put  us  on  the  road  to  durable  peace  and 
security and sustained economic growth. As the primus 
inter  pares,  the  United  Nations  is  the  only  and  truly 
universal  multilateral  Organization  that  enjoys  the 
credibility,  legitimacy  and  universal  acceptability  to 
realize that — which is also its raison d’être. 

Pakistan  supports  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  to  make  it  more  representative, 
equitable, transparent and accountable. Council reform 
must  be  guided  by  the  principles  of  equality  and 
democracy, which could conform to a dynamic future, 
one  not  entrenched  in  the  historical  mistakes  and 
individual privileges of the past. We should look for an 
outcome 
the 
membership, one that strengthens and does not weaken 
the  Organization.  Our  collective 
should 
culminate  in  a  consensus  solution  that  corresponds  to 
the interest of the entire membership, particularly small 
and medium States, developing countries and Africa. 

Pakistan,  as  a  leading  troop-contributing  country 
for  United  Nations  peacekeeping,  is  playing  its  due 
role  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security.  Our  peacekeepers  have  laid  down  their  lives 
in  missions  that  were  operationally  demanding  and 
geographically  difficult.  The  unique  status  of  the 
United  Nations  brings  acceptance  to  its  peacekeeping 
activities, and the success of peacekeeping operations, 
in turn, brings credibility to the world body. For those 
suffering in a conflict zone, the sight of a blue helmet 
provides  a  beacon  of  hope,  which  has  illuminated  the 
lives of millions by bringing peace and alleviating their 
pains and sorrows. 
Our  commitment  to  the  promotion  of  peace, 

security  and  stability,  the  development  of  friendly 
relations  with  other  nations,  respect  for  sovereignty 
and territorial integrity and the promotion of economic 
and  social  development  is  unwavering.  It  is  that  firm 
conviction 
democratic 
Government  to  remain  steadfast  in  its  resolve  to  fight 
terrorism and extremism, even as we have to deal with 
the massive destruction caused by catastrophic floods. 
enabled 
search 
that 
has 
our 

The 
is  a 
injustices 
issue  has  both 
Our national consensus and resolve to fight extremism 
and terrorism remains unshaken. 

The world recognizes and applauds the important 
successes  achieved  by  our  security  forces  against 
terrorists. Those successes have come at a heavy cost. 
More than 20,000 innocent civilians have fallen victim 
to  terrorism,  and  more  than  2,500  personnel  of  the 
security forces have offered the ultimate sacrifice. Our 
material  losses  are  nearly  $50  billion.  The  Pakistani 
nation will persist in its efforts to eliminate terrorism. 
regional  and  global 

dimensions. It is imperative that all countries do more 
to  combat  that  menace.  It  is  also  essential  to  address 
the  root  causes  of  terrorism,  which  are  often  found  in 
poverty,  deprivation, 
and  oppression. 
Terrorists  recognize  no  borders;  they  have  no  religion 
and no creed. It is therefore absurd to malign a whole 
people or a region or any religion on that account. We 
cannot accept the stereotyping of Muslims as terrorists. 
Islam 
religion  of  peace,  compassion  and 
brotherhood.  Terrorism  is  a  complete  antithesis  to 
Islam’s humanistic outlook and noble values. 
Pakistan supports the just cause of the Palestinian 

people  for  restitution  of  their  inalienable  national 
rights,  including  their  independent  Palestinian  State 
with Al Quds Al Sharif as its capital. 
The brazen use of force against the humanitarian 

freedom flotilla on 31 May 2010, which resulted in the 
killing  of  humanitarian  workers,  was  a  flagrant 
violation  of  international  law  and  norms.  We  look 
forward to a prompt, impartial and transparent inquiry 
of  the  incident  by  the  Secretary-General’s  Panel  of 
Inquiry. 

The  dispute  over  Jammu  and  Kashmir  is  one  of 
the  oldest  on  the  agenda  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is 
about the exercise of the right to self-determination by 
the  Kashmiri  people  through  a  free,  fair  and  impartial 
plebiscite under United Nations auspices. 

Pakistan views the prevailing situation in Indian-
occupied  Kashmir  with  grave  concern.  Over  the  past 
two months, more than 100 Kashmiris have been killed 
by  Indian  security  forces  in  Kashmir.  We  strongly 
condemn  that  brutality.  The  human  rights  of  the 
Kashmiri  people  must  be  respected  and  their  voices 
heard to create an enabling environment for a peaceful 
solution  to  the  long-standing  Jammu  and  Kashmir 
dispute. Pakistan reaffirms its complete solidarity with 
24 

10-55264 
the 
India 
Pakistan 
is  willing 
to  engage 


the  Kashmiri  people  and  urges 
international 
community  to  persuade  India  to  end  its  repression  in 
Kashmir. 

in  a 
comprehensive dialogue to normalize relations between 
the  two  countries  by  finding  amicable  solutions  to  all 
outstanding  issues,  including  the  core  dispute  of 
Jammu  and  Kashmir.  A  peaceful  resolution  of  the 
Kashmir  dispute,  in  accordance  with  United  Nations 
resolutions  and  taking  into  account  the  aspirations  of 
the  Kashmiri  people,  would  create  an  atmosphere 
conducive  to  durable  peace  and  stability  in  the  South 
Asian region. 

In  the  spirit  of  global  solidarity  and  good-
neighbourly  relations,  Pakistan  has  hosted  the  largest 
concentration of refugees anywhere in the world for the 
past 30 years. We continue to host our Afghan brothers 
as  a  moral  and  humanitarian  duty.  No  country  has 
suffered  more  than  Pakistan  from  the  direct  and 
indirect  consequences  of  decades  of  conflict 
in 
Afghanistan.  We  thus  have  an  abiding  stake  in  peace 
and  stability  in  Afghanistan.  Our  commitment  to  that 
objective remains firm. The time has come to transform 
Afghanistan  from  the  centre  stage  of  proxy  wars, 
interference  and  confrontation 
for 
international cooperation and development. 

Pakistan  believes  that  the  restoration  of  societal 
equilibrium in Afghanistan is an Afghan responsibility 
and  cannot  be  imposed  externally.  We  support  all 
efforts  for  national  reconciliation  that  are  Afghan-
owned 
the 
Government  of  Afghanistan  on  holding  successful 
parliamentary elections. They will strengthen President 
Karzai’s 
initiation  of  national  reconciliation  and 
reintegration. 
Disarmament and non-proliferation are important 

pillars  of 
international  peace  and  security 
architecture.  We  remain  committed  to  both  objectives 
and believe that they should be pursued in an equitable 
and non discriminatory manner. The asymmetric build-
up  of  conventional  weapons  and  the  espousal  of 
aggressive  doctrines  have  a  negative 
impact  on 
regional security. 

The  pursuit  of  discriminatory  policies  and 
disregard  for  the  security  interests  of  States  seriously 
erode  globally  the  moral  authority  that  must  underlie 
equitable approaches to promoting the goals of nuclear 
and  non  proliferation.  We  have 
disarmament 
and  Afghan-led.  We 
into  a  hub 
congratulate 
the 
A/65/PV.21
It 
the 
also 
complicates 
irrevocable  damage 
consistently  pursued  a  policy  of  conventional  and 
nuclear  restraint,  along  with  conflict  resolution  in 
South  Asia.  We  reaffirm  our  proposal  for  a  strategic 
restraint  regime  as  an  important  way  to  promote  the 
cause of peace, stability and security in our region. 

Pakistan,  with  the  fifth  largest  population  in  the 
world  and  only  0.4  per  cent  of  the  world’s  total 
greenhouse-gas  emissions,  is  one  hundred  and  thirty-
fifth  on  the  global  list  of  greenhouse-gas  emitters. 
Despite  such  a  low  contribution,  climate  change  is 
causing 
to  Pakistan,  with 
tremendous 
social,  environmental  and  economic 
impacts. While  the  world  continues  to  discuss  climate 
change  and  its  scientific  basis  and  to  seek  a  fair  and 
equitable  outcome  of  the  ongoing  negotiations  under 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change 
(UNFCCC),  climate  change  has  already 
become a reality for 170 million Pakistanis. 

The  present  situation  in  Pakistan  reconfirms  our 
extreme vulnerability to the adverse impacts of climate 
change. 
post-flood 
reconstruction  and  rehabilitation  scenario  in  Pakistan. 
It  is  in  Pakistan’s  interests  to  work  vigorously  and 
creatively for an early and successful conclusion to the 
ongoing  climate-change  negotiations  under  UNFCCC 
auspices. Any lasting solution will have to respect the 
principle of common but differentiated responsibilities 
and the respective capabilities of countries. 

With  an  active  and  empowered  Parliament,  a 
vigilant and well-informed civil society, free media and 
an 
judiciary,  Pakistan’s  democratic 
Government  is  putting  in  place  mechanisms  to  ensure 
good  and  accountable  governance  at  all  levels  in  the 
country.  The  democratic  Government,  inspired  by  the 
vision  of  Shaheed  Benazir  Bhutto,  attaches  special 
attention to the promotion and protection of the human 
rights  of  all  segments  of  society,  particularly  women, 
children  and  minorities.  In  May,  Pakistan  ratified  the 
International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights 
and  the  Convention  against  Torture  and  Other  Cruel, 
Inhuman  or  Degrading  Treatment  or  Punishment. 
Pakistan  is  now  a  State  party  to  all  27  human  rights 
conventions. 

We  welcome  the  creation  of  the  new  composite 
gender  entity,  UN  Women.  We  hope  it  will  lead  the 
efforts  to  promote  rights,  empowerment  and  equality 
for women throughout the world. 
independent 
10-55264 

25 
is  vested 
through  both 
forging  close 
Pursuing  peace  and 
in  close  collaboration  with 
A/65/PV.21 


regional 
economic  partnerships  is  an  important  pillar  of  our 
strategy  to  pursue  economic  growth  and  development 
in  Pakistan.  We  are  working 
the 
Economic  Cooperation  Organization  and  the  South 
Asian Association for Regional Cooperation to further 
deepen  regional  collaboration  and  expand  people-to-
people  contacts,  including  through  inter-parliamentary 
cooperation. 

Our strategy and actions at the national level stem 
from  a  firm  belief  that  the  primary  responsibility  and 
central  action  in  our  pursuit  for  economic  growth  and 
development 
in  our  nation.  Despite  a 
challenging  economic  and  security  environment,  we 
are  pursuing  an  aggressive  reform  programme.  That 
agenda  focuses  on  pro  poor  growth,  boosting  rural 
economy and agriculture, affirmative action for women 
and minorities and expansion of social safety nets. We 
are  conscious that that  requires  enhanced fiscal space, 
for  which  we  have  introduced  economic  and  tax 
reforms 
international 
development partners. 
The President returned to the Chair. 


We  have  to  work  together  to  make  this  world  a 
safe  and  secure  place  for  our  children.  We  have  to 
make strenuous endeavours to achieve the ideals of the 
United Nations Charter. We have to make this world a 
prosperous  place  free  from  hunger,  want  and  poverty. 
We  owe  all  this  to  our  future  generations.  We  cannot 
afford to fail in this endeavour. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Dimitris  Droutsas,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic. 
Mr. Droutsas (Greece): I would like to thank the 

President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth 
session,  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki  of  Libya,  for  his 
tireless  efforts  in  taking  forward  the Assembly’s  work 
and  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as 
President at the sixty-fifth session. 
I  would  also  like  at  this  point  to  fully  align  my 

country’s  positions  with 
the 
statement  of  the  European  Union  (EU).  It  is  my  firm 
belief that the General Assembly would greatly benefit 
from 
EU 
representatives  to  fulfil  their  responsibilities  in  an 
effective manner at formal meetings. 
those  expressed 
that  would 
arrangements 
allow 
in 

is 
the 
change 
Climate 
Initiative 
launch  of 
the  world’s 
the  needs  of  our  peoples 

We  can  all  agree  that  the  United  Nations  is  the 
only global entity that commands universal legitimacy 
and  is  the  Organization  to  which  we  should  all  look, 
and actively support, in order to provide collective and 
therefore  optimal  solutions  to  the  ever-growing  array 
of  multifaceted  issues  confronting  us.  It  is  a  fact  that 
meeting 
increasingly 
transcends  the  abilities  of  individual  nation-States. 
That is where the role of the United Nations comes to 
the  fore,  and  it  is  why  our  discussions  on  reforming 
and  revitalizing  the  Organization  are  of  paramount 
importance. 

greatest 
environmental  challenge.  We  all  know  that  it  will 
increasingly  affect  all  aspects  of  our  lives,  including 
peace and security. We now need to focus all efforts in 
order to secure  a successful outcome of the upcoming 
summit in Cancún. 

The  Greek  Government  is  proposing  a  new 
Mediterranean  Climate  Change  Initiative,  in  close 
collaboration  with  Mediterranean  countries  that  are 
strongly  committed  to  climate  and  energy  security.  A 
formal 
is  planned  on 
22 October in Athens, ahead of the Cancún summit. In 
the same vein, the central theme of our Chairmanship-
in-Office  of 
the  Black  Sea 
Economic Cooperation is “the Black Sea turns green”. 

The  recent  global  economic  and  financial  crisis 
has  left  few  countries  unaffected.  Greece  was  no 
exception, despite the tough and radical reform agenda 
we are implementing that is setting the country steadily 
back  on  its  feet.  Efforts  for  a  more  efficient  and 
concrete  global  financial  regulatory  framework  are 
necessary.  In  that  regard,  I welcome  the  results  of  the 
High-level  Meeting  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals,  and  I  commend  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
timely initiative. 

Greece  continues  to  support  all  efforts  for  an 
effective  and  efficient  Human  Rights  Council  with 
enhanced  status,  mandate,  structures  and  membership. 
Greece  will  actively  defend  the  relevance  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  through  its  candidacy  for  the 
years 2012 to 2015. 

Promoting  effective  interaction  and  coordination 
between the United Nations and regional organizations 
must  be  one  of  our  key  priorities.  We  consider  the 
upcoming  2010  summit  of 
the  Organization  for 
Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe  (OSCE)  a  major 
the  Organization  of 
26 

10-55264 
the 
constitutes 


milestone  in  the  European  security  dialogue  —  the 
well-known  Corfu  Process,  launched  by  the  Greek 
OSCE Chairmanship in 2009. 

Greece has made a commitment especially to our 
region  and  its  people.  A  key  factor  for  bringing 
stability  and  development  to  our  region  is  good-
neighbourliness,  a  fundamental  principle  that  together 
with  the  other  principles  set  out  in  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations 
cornerstone  of 
contemporary international legal order. 
The  Balkans  —our  immediate  neighbourhood  — 

is  still  a  sensitive  area  in  terms  of  stability.  The  dust 
from the dissolution of Yugoslavia has not yet settled. 
Greece’s vision for the Balkans is of a region in which 
democracy  finally  becomes  the  norm,  where  citizens’ 
aspirations can finally be realized through peaceful and 
democratic practices, where the rights of minorities are 
respected,  and  where  Governments  are  accountable, 
economies  are  transparent  and  politics  allow  for  the 
fullest participation of all elements of society. 

In  order  to  breathe  new  life  into  the  prospect  of 
the  Balkans’  integration  into  the  European  Union, 
Greece  has  put  forward  a  new  initiative  known  as 
Agenda  2014.  There  are  still  open  wounds  in  our 
region  —  Kosovo  being  the  most  pressing  —  and  we 
must ensure that this time the European Union will be 
present with a strong voice. The European prospect for 
our entire region can boost the political process that is 
about to begin on Kosovo. At the same time, we need 
to  keep  an  open  and  clear  path  for  Serbia  to  begin 
accession negotiations with the European Union. 

Another  open  issue  in  the  Balkans  revolves 
around  the  name  of  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia.  That  is  not  a  bilateral,  pedantic  dispute 
about  historic  symbols,  as  some  may  try  to  portray  it, 
but  a  regional  question  with  deep  historical  roots 
related to good-neighbourliness. A  compromise  on the 
name issue is needed. Greece has already done its part. 
A fair and lasting solution can be based only on a name 
with a geographic qualifier to be used for all purposes, 
erga omnes. Let me explain why. 

Macedonia  is  a  large  geographic  region,  most  of 
which  lies  in  Greece.  A  small  part  is  in  the  former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and a smaller part in 
Bulgaria. The part cannot represent the whole, and the 
exclusive  claims  of  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia 
the  name  “Macedonia”  cannot  be 
allowed  to  fuel  nationalism.  Any  solution  must  be 
to 
10-55264 

A/65/PV.21
universally  implemented,  because  otherwise  today’s 
situation  will  simply  be  perpetuated.  We  have 
intensified  our  efforts  to  reach  a  settlement  in  the 
context  of  the  established  United  Nations  negotiating 
process, led by Mr. Nimetz. 

I  chose  the  General  Assembly,  which  is  the 
natural  forum  for  solving  international  disputes,  to 
declare  once  again  Greece’s  readiness  to  reach  a 
solution,  even  tomorrow,  and  to  call  upon  Prime 
Minister  Gruevski  to  display  leadership  and  become 
our  partner  for  progress,  progress  that  will  result  in  a 
bright and prosperous future for our neighbours in the 
European  Union — a future we wish to  see  become  a 
reality  soon.  Greece  is  extending  a  hand  of  friendship 
and cooperation. The time has come for our neighbours 
to take that hand. 

The  Arab-Israeli  conflict  is  again  at  a  turning 
point. The resumption of direct talks was a significant 
achievement, but only the beginning. Now our number 
one priority is to sustain that dialogue and for it to bear 
fruit. Both sides have an obligation to show respect for 
that fragile diplomatic process. Actions that threaten its 
very  existence,  like  Israeli  settlement  construction, 
must  be  avoided  in  order  to  prevent  the  negotiations 
from becoming one more exercise in futility. 

I  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  and 
all  those  who  labour  with  him  for  a  just  solution  in 
Cyprus, a solution based on United Nations resolutions 
for  a  bi-zonal,  bi-communal  federation  with  one 
international  personality,  one  citizenship  and  one 
sovereignty,  a  solution  in  full  conformity  with  the 
acquis communautaire. 

Cyprus  is  a  tragic  example  of  where  our  shared 
sense  of  justice  —  our  shared  code  of  values  —  has 
gone  astray.  Cyprus  is  the  victim  of  military  invasion 
and  remains  occupied  by  foreign  troops.  That  is  the 
truth; that is reality, and it must end. We need to move 
beyond  that  situation.  It  will  take  courage  from 
everyone  involved.  It  is  a  matter  of  political  will, 
resolution and determination, such as that displayed by 
President Christofias. 

I  extend  my  appeal  to  the  Turkish  Cypriots.  We 
want  you  near  us,  in  our  wider  European  family.  The 
participation  of  a  reunited  Cyprus  in  the  European 
Union means that every Cypriot enjoys safety, equality 
under  the  law,  protection  of  their  human  rights, 
appropriate 
representation  and  security  under  a 
European  roof.  Let  me  be  clear:  in  the  modern 
27 

an 
are 
relations 
Greek-Turkish 
A/65/PV.21 

European  environment,  relics  of  the  past,  such  as 
guarantor  Powers,  seem  and  sound  anachronistic  and 
completely out of touch. 

Turkey  can  prove  its  commitment  to  a  lasting 
solution  to  the  Cyprus  issue  by  withdrawing  its 
occupation  forces  from  the  island,  thus  boosting  both 
the  negotiation  process  and 
its  own  European 
perspective. 

important 
parameter for the stability of the region. Burdened by a 
heavy historical past as we are, it is not an easy task to 
change  course  and  turn  a  long-standing  rivalry  into 
good-neighbourliness, free from the threat of the use of 
force  or  unfounded  territorial  claims.  Respect  for 
international  law  is  the  sole  basis  for  a  healthy  and 
peaceful relationship between our two countries. 

We  have  opened  a  dialogue,  one  that  is  honest, 
and  although  we  may  and  do  differ  on  many  issues, 
such as how we see Cyprus and how we approach our 
bilateral relations, this open approach can only lead to 
a  progressive  resolution  of  our  problems. The Turkish 
leadership  and  the  people  of  Turkey  know  we  are 
honest in what we say and in our desire for a new and 
peaceful  relationship.  I  strongly  believe  our  mutual 
interests can outweigh our political differences. We can 
and  must  resolve  these  differences  through  peaceful 
means,  and  a  possible  way  to  go  is  through  the 
International Court of Justice. 

I do not want to give the false impression that all 
our  problems  have  suddenly  been  resolved.  It  is  most 
distressing  that  a  variety  of  statements  and  acts  still 
undermine  this  very  genuine  and  difficult  effort.  The 
long-standing threat of war, the casus belli against my 
country,  is  unacceptable  and  has  no  place  in  our 
European and global family of values and principles. 

There are those who certainly may wish that our 
efforts  fail,  but  it  is  our  historical  duty  to  overcome 
those  difficulties  and  maintain  the  momentum  in 
response  to  our  peoples’  mandate  and  their  desire  for 
peace. 

We  look  forward  to  the  day  when  Belgrade  and 
Pristina will be an easy bus ride away, when Jerusalem 
and Damascus, Athens and Ankara  and,  of course, the 
two  parts  of  divided  Nicosia  will  no  longer  be 
separated  by  fear  and  suspicion,  but  will  be  joined  in 
peace.  Those  were  the  words  used  and  the  vision 
expressed  by  George  Papandreou, 
today’s  Prime 
of 
the 
warm 
greetings 
Minister  of  Greece,  in  his  very  first  address  to  the 
General Assembly  as  Greek  Foreign  Minister  in  1999 
(see  A/54/PV.9).  Allow  me  repeat  those  words  and 
vision  in  my  first  address  to  this  body  in  the  same 
capacity. This is a wish and vision that, I think, we all 
share. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 

His Excellency Mr. Arvin Boolell, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs, Regional Integration and International Trade of 
the Republic of Mauritius. 
Mr.  Boolell  (Mauritius):  I  congratulate  you, 

Mr. President,  on  your  election  as  President  of  the 
General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session, and I thank 
your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Ali Treki, for his 
excellent  stewardship  of  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
fourth session. I seize this opportunity to convey to you 
the 
Honourable 
Dr. Navinchandra  Ramgoolam,  Prime  Minister  of 
Mauritius. 

We are meeting this year against the backdrop of 
the triple blow of food, fuel and financial crises, which 
have  significantly  slowed  the  social  and  economic 
progress  of  many,  particularly  developing,  countries. 
Although  we  are  now  witnessing  signs  of  gradual 
recovery, we are nonetheless aware of the fact that the 
world  is  still  mired  in  the  consequences  of  the 
recession. 

These crises have exposed the deficiencies of the 
international  financial  and  governance  structure  and 
made us realize that the pre crisis status quo has to be 
challenged,  if  we  are  to  ensure  a  better  future  for  our 
people.  While  we  acknowledge  the  pre  eminent  role 
that  the  Group  of  20  is  playing  in  addressing  the 
the  widening  and 
financial  and  economic  crisis, 
of 
acceleration 
integration 
and 
interconnectedness 
of 
democratizing the international economic and financial 
decision-making  processes  in  order  to  ensure  that  the 
future development of our global economy is balanced 
and equitable. 

Director  of 
Mr. Dominique Strauss-Kahn, stating last Monday, 

It was therefore reassuring to hear the Managing 
International  Monetary  Fund, 
“To regain momentum, we need a sense of shared 
responsibility  among  the  various  actors  —  the 
developing  countries  themselves,  the  advanced 
global 
dictate 
necessity 
the 
the 
28 

10-55264 


A/65/PV.21
to 
from 
linked 
Success 
this  very 
inextricably 
A  week  ago, 
achieving 
is 
economies and, in part, the international financial 
institutions.” (A/65/PV.3) 

The statistics are eloquent regarding the negative 
impact  of  the  multitude  of  crises  on  the  progress 
achieved  on 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). As  global  economic  output  has  declined,  the 
ranks of the poor have swelled with the newly poor. 

rostrum,  an 
impressive  number  of  world  leaders  reaffirmed  their 
commitments  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
In  our  drive  to  enable  the  less  fortunate  to  lead  a 
dignified  life,  it  is  imperative  that  we  have  closer 
cooperation  and  collaboration  between  Government, 
civil  society  and  the  private  sector,  supplemented  by 
innovative thinking, cutting-edge knowledge and path-
breaking initiatives. 
the  Millennium 

in 
Development  Goals 
the 
broader  agenda  of  climate  change.  The  effects  of 
climate  change  and  global  warming  threaten  the  very 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. 
While  climate  change  is  affecting  all  countries,  it  is 
abundantly  clear  that  the  small  islands  and  low-lying 
and  coastal  States  are  the  most  affected  by  its 
consequences. 
island 

to 
developing  States  be  given  simplified  access 
financing  from  the  $30  billion  of  fast-start  funding 
pledged  in  the  Copenhagen Accord  and  similar  access 
to the longer-term funds proposed for the Copenhagen 
Green  Climate  Fund.  That  adaptation  funding  should 
be in the form of grants and not loans. 

We  hope  that  the  forthcoming  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change,  to  be  held  in  Cancún  later  this 
year,  will  build  on  the  2009  Copenhagen  Accord  to 
ultimately  arrive  at  a  legally  binding  agreement  on 
limits  to  greenhouse  gas  emissions  based  on  the 
principle of common but differentiated capabilities and 
responsibilities and the establishment of mitigation and 
adaptation  funds.  Let  us  therefore  join  our  efforts  and 
not  miss  the  opportunity,  because  a  world  that  is 
climate-smart  is  within  reach,  if  we  act  now,  act 
together and act differently. 

In  its  effort  to  contribute  towards  the  global 
momentum  to  attain  a  low-carbon  future,  Mauritius  is 
implementing  the  Maurice  Ile  Durable  project,  which 
therefore  urge 
small 
that 
We 
the 
in 
in 
fuels 
fossil 
official 
through 
accessing 
paradigm, 
one  where 
The  High-level  Review  Meeting  on 
aims  at  protecting  the  environment  and  minimizing 
dependence  on 
increased 
utilization  of  renewable  energy  and  a  more  efficient 
use of energy in general. 

the 
implementation  of  the  Mauritius  Strategy  for  the 
Further  Implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action 
for  the  Sustainable  Development  of  Small  Island 
Developing  States  re  emphasized  the  fact  that,  owing 
to  their  inherent  specificity,  small  island  developing 
States  should  be  recognized  as  a  distinct  category  of 
countries  and  should  be  granted  special  treatment, 
particularly 
development 
assistance  and  concessionary  funding.  The  present 
gross domestic product  criterion  applied in graduating 
least  developed  countries  to  middle-income  status  is 
most  unfair  to  small  island  developing  States,  since  it 
does not take into account the unique vulnerabilities of 
those States. 

The time has come for a shift in how we think of 
development.  We  need  to  articulate  strongly  a  new 
development 
developing 
countries are part and parcel of the solution to create a 
more  vibrant  world  economy  in  this  truly  multipolar 
world. 

We  therefore  look  forward  to  the  successful 
conclusion  of  the  Doha  Development  Round  at  the 
earliest possible date. It is also crucial to close the gaps 
in  the  provision  of Aid  for Trade  so  as  to  support  the 
building  of  supply  capacity,  which  lies  at  the  core  of 
development. 

its 
capacity  as  the  new  chair  of  the  Indian  Ocean 
Commission,  will  continue  to  lay  greater  emphasis  on 
the creation of an economic and commercial space, the 
implementation of a regional strategy on fisheries and 
aquaculture, the promotion of tourism in our region in 
traditional and emerging markets, and the development 
of a comprehensive regional anti-piracy programme. 

A  fundamental  precondition  for  socio  economic 
development  can  be  found  in  a  process  of  social 
inclusiveness,  with  human  rights  at  its  core.  As  a 
member of the United Nations Human Rights Council, 
Mauritius is firmly committed to the safeguarding and 
protection of human rights, at both the national and the 
international  levels.  In  this  regard,  we  unreservedly 
condemn 
rights  violations 
committed by warring factions in conflict zones, where 
level,  Mauritius, 
the  subregional 
serious  human 
the 
At 
10-55264 

29 
in 
In 
the 

the 
unbreakable 
determination 
A/65/PV.21 

vulnerable members of the society, particularly women 
and children, are being targeted. At the national level, a 
truth  and  reconciliation  commission  has  started  the 
challenging  task  of  compiling  a  report  on  slavery  and 
indentured  labour  in  Mauritius  during  the  colonial 
period. 

Mauritius  continues  to  be  preoccupied  with  the 
fate of pro democracy leader Aung San Suu Kyi, whose 
heroic 
and 
and 
steadfastness 
to  free  her  people  from  years  of 
subjugation compel all of us who are strong advocates 
of democratic values to stand and speak up. Depriving 
Ms.  Aung  San  Suu  Kyi  of  the  right  to  stand  as  a 
candidate 
forthcoming  general  elections 
scheduled  in  November  this  year  is  considered  by  my 
delegation as the deprivation of the basic rights of the 
people  of  Myanmar  to  freely  choose  the  leaders  to 
whom they wish to entrust the destiny of their country. 

Democracy  and  the  rule  of  law  are  essential 
elements  for  the  development,  stability,  security  and 
prosperity  of  any  country.  The  world  has  made 
significant  strides  in  this  respect.  Nonetheless,  it  is 
regrettable  that  conflicts  in  certain  parts  of  the  world 
continue  to  undermine  progress.  The  imperatives  of  a 
globalizing  world  require  the  international  community 
to  remain  seized  of  these  issues  and  not  to  shirk  its 
responsibilities. 
region,  Mauritius 
is 

Indian  Ocean 
the  current  political 
particularly  concerned  with 
impasse  prevailing 
in  our  neighbouring  sisterly 
country — Madagascar. We are actively engaged in the 
Southern  African  Development  Community  (SADC), 
the  African  Union  (AU)  and 
the  Indian  Ocean 
Commission,  working  to  assist  Madagascar  to  find  a 
peaceful solution to the political crisis. 

In  this  regard,  we  wish  to  state  that  we  are 
supportive  of  the  initiative  led  by  the  Coordination 
National  des  Organisations  de  la  Société  Civile  to 
organize an inter Malagasy dialogue in order to find a 
solution  designed  by  all  Malagasies  to  the  crisis  in 
Madagascar. And  we  sincerely  hope  that  the  dialogue 
will be credible, transparent and include all sections of 
Malagasy society in the search for durable peace in the 
interest  of  both  the  country  and  the  region.  Mauritius 
has offered its assistance in setting up an SADC liaison 
office  in  Madagascar  in  order  to  provide  support  in 
moving the Malagasy-Malagasy dialogue. 

Two decades of civil unrest have inflicted untold 
miseries  and  difficulties  on  the  Somali  people  and 
rendered governance of the country almost impossible. 
We  commend  the  Intergovernmental  Authority  on 
Development  for  its  efforts  to  promote  peace  and 
security  in  Somalia  through  the  Transitional  Federal 
Government.  We  believe  that  the  people  of  Somalia 
deserve  greater  commitment  from  the  international 
community towards restoring law and order inside the 
country  and  also  towards  putting  an  end  to  the  piracy 
problem off the coast of Somalia. 

In order to promote a more proactive engagement 
of  the  countries  of  the  region  in  the  fight  against 
piracy,  Mauritius  will  host 
the  Second  Regional 
Ministerial  Conference  on  Piracy  on  6  and  7  October, 
in  collaboration  with  the  European  Union,  the  Indian 
Ocean  Commission  and  the  Common  Market  for 
Eastern  and  Southern  Africa.  Mauritius 
is  also 
envisaging  the  possibility  of  trying  piracy  suspects 
caught  in  the  Indian  Ocean  in  its  courts,  if  the 
logistical,  infrastructural  and  financial  support  of  the 
international community is adequate. 

The current process for talks between Israelis and 
Palestinians  has  given  renewed  hope  for  lasting  peace 
through  the  creation  of  an  independent  sovereign 
Palestinian State existing side by side with the State of 
Israel  within 
recognized  borders. 
Mauritius  has  always  supported  the  legitimate  and 
inalienable  right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  live  in 
peace and security in an independent Palestinian State. 
We  therefore  commend  President  Barack  Obama  for 
his  initiatives  and  leadership  in  enabling  the  direct 
talks  between  President  Abbas  and  Prime  Minister 
Netanyahu. 

the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security will remain incomplete 
until we achieve a comprehensive reform of the United 
Nations  Security  Council  —  a  reformed  Security 
Council  that  meets  and  responds  to  the  geopolitical 
realities  of  the  twenty-first  century.  In  this  respect, 
Mauritius fully supports the Common African Position, 
as  enshrined  in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and  the  Sirte 
Declaration.  We  reiterate  our  support  for  India,  the 
largest  democracy,  obtaining  a  permanent  seat  in  a 
reformed  Security  Council.  We  also  support 
the 
rightful aspiration of Latin America and the Caribbean 
for a permanent seat in the Council. 
Global  governance 
secured  and 
in 
30 

10-55264 
We  have 
has 
over 
sovereignty 
terms  drawn 
in  no  uncertain 
We  are  deeply  concerned 



the 
attention  of  this  body  every  year  to  the  fact  that 
Mauritius 
the  Chagos 
Archipelago,  including  Diego  Garcia.  The  Chagos 
Archipelago  was  illegally  excised  by  the  United 
Kingdom  from  the  territory  of  Mauritius  prior  to  our 
independence.  This  dismemberment  was  done 
in 
blatant violation of General Assembly resolutions 1514 
(XV)  of  14  December  1960  and  2066  (XX)  of 
16 December  1965.  We  have  raised  the  issue  of  the 
sovereignty  of  Mauritius  over  the  Archipelago  with 
successive  British  Governments  and  initially  pursued 
the matter as a friendly dispute. In view of the lack of 
progress,  we  suggested  that  the  issue  be  addressed  in 
bilateral  talks.  Although  the  process  of  bilateral  talks 
was  initiated  in  January  2009,  the  issue  of  our 
sovereignty over the Chagos Archipelago has yet to be 
addressed. 

the  British 
Government  decided  on  1  April  2010  to  unilaterally 
declare  a  marine  protected  area  around  the  Chagos 
Archipelago — our territory — allegedly to protect the 
marine  environment.  The  unilateral  establishment  of 
this marine protected area infringes the sovereignty of 
Mauritius  over  the  Archipelago  and  constitutes  a 
serious  impediment  to  the  eventual  resettlement  there 
of  its  former  inhabitants  and  other  Mauritians,  as  any 
economic  activity  in  the  protected  zone  would  be 
precluded.  The  Government  of  Mauritius  has  decided 
not  to  recognize  the  existence  of  the  so  called  marine 
protected area. 
The  illegal  excision  of  the  Chagos  Archipelago 

from  the  territory  of  Mauritius  has  indeed  a  tragic 
human  dimension.  All 
the 
Archipelago  were  at  that  time  forced  by  the  British 
authorities to abruptly leave their homes there, in total 
disregard  for  their  human  rights.  Most  of  them  were 
moved 
island  of  Mauritius.  The 
Government  of  Mauritius  is  sensitive  to  and  fully 
supportive of the plight of the displaced inhabitants of 
the  Chagos Archipelago  and  to  their  desire  to  resettle 
in their birthplace there. 

Mauritius greatly appreciates the unflinching and 
unanimous  support  it  has  consistently  received  from 
the African Union and the Non-Aligned Movement for 
the  assertion  of  its  sovereignty  over  the  Chagos 
Archipelago. The last AU Summit held in Kampala last 
July and the last Non-Aligned Movement Summit held 
in  July  2008  in  Sharm  el-Sheikh  both  reaffirmed  that 
inhabitants  of 
the  main 
that 
the 
to 
A/65/PV.21
further  delay. 
including  Diego  Garcia, 
the  Archipelago,  including  Diego  Garcia,  forms  an 
integral  part  of  the  territory  of  the  Republic  of 
Mauritius. They also called upon the United Kingdom 
to expeditiously put an end to its unlawful occupation 
of  the  Chagos  Archipelago  with  a  view  to  enabling 
Mauritius to effectively exercise its sovereignty over it. 

We  urge the  United  Kingdom once again to take 
the necessary steps for the unconditional return of the 
Chagos  Archipelago, 
to 
Mauritius  without 
In  our  annual 
statement,  we  also  reaffirmed  the  sovereignty  of 
Mauritius  over  Tromelin  Island.  The  Governments  of 
Mauritius and France reached an agreement earlier this 
year  on  the  co  management  of  the  island  and  its 
maritime zones without prejudice to the sovereignty of 
Mauritius  over  Tromelin.  This  is  considered  to  be  a 
first  and  positive  step  towards  the  resolution  of  the 
sovereignty issue. 
(spoke in French) 

The  Republic  of  Mauritius  is  a  crucible  of 
civilizations and cultures. We are proud to be a haven 
of  peace,  where  people  of  various  backgrounds  and 
traditions  live  together  in  harmony.  The  people  of 
Mauritius  are 
the  philosophy  of 
multiculturalism  and  consider  their  diversity  to  be  a 
rich human resource. Based on the vision expressed in 
our  motto,  “Unity,  equality  and  modernity”,  we  have 
committed  to  place  humanity  at  the  centre  of  all 
development  in  our  pluralistic  society  —  a  society 
based  on  diversity,  respect  for  cultural  individuality, 
non-discrimination and sharing common values. 

The United Nations is the pre-eminent forum for 
intercultural  dialogue.  My  country  will  fully  play  its 
part in the combined global effort for all human beings 
to  enjoy  the  consideration  and  respect  that  are  their 
birthright. 
(spoke in English) 

unwavering  faith 
maintenance  of 
development. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Nickolay  Mladenov,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria. 
Mr.  Mladenov  (Bulgaria):  Every  year  we  come 

together  in  this  great  Hall  of  the  United  Nations,  to 
Finally,  I  should  like  to  reaffirm  Mauritius’ 
the 
international  peace,  security  and 
the  United  Nations 
inspired  by 
in 
in 
10-55264 

31 

A/65/PV.21 

reaffirm  our  commitment  to  multilateralism.  Nations 
big  and  small,  rich  and  poor,  gather  from  the  four 
corners of the world here at the United Nations, driven 
by  the  conviction  that,  if  we  work  together,  we  will 
find solutions to the challenges of today and tomorrow. 
As 
these  challenges  grow  and  become  more 
interconnected,  so  grows  our  conviction  that  only 
through cooperation and dialogue can we resolve them. 
This is the fundamental belief with which, for 55 years, 
the  Bulgarian  delegation,  like  many  others,  has  come 
to the United Nations. 

Like every day, today will be unique, because our 
actions  on  this  day  will  forge  our  tomorrows. We  can 
spend our time dwelling on the past, or we can invest 
our  time  in  the  future  that  we  will  all  face  together. 
Today,  our  world  faces  a  complicated  web  of 
challenges,  but  also  of  opportunities.  We  face  the 
challenge  of  addressing  global  climate  change  by 
creating opportunities for sustainable development. We 
face  the  challenge  of  reducing  the  conflicts  and 
opportunities that come from providing sufficient clean 
water  to  millions  of  people.  We  face  the  challenge  of 
developing  an  ethical  market  economy  and 
the 
countless opportunities that will emerge from reducing 
the  poverty  gap.  We  face  the  challenge  of  reducing 
ethnic conflicts, terrorism and the spread of weapons of 
mass destruction and the opportunities that come from 
good  governance,  democracy  and  freedom.  We  may 
also, perhaps, address the most paramount challenge of 
our time: to prove wrong all those who believe that the 
world  is  heading  towards  an  irreversible  clash  of 
civilizations  —  because  none  of  the  global  challenges 
that  we  face  today  can  be  understood,  tackled  or 
addressed  without  respect  for  different  opinions, 
without dialogue between faiths and without adherence 
to  the  global  values  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations. 
(spoke in French) 

On  behalf  of  the  Government  of  Bulgaria,  I 
congratulate  Mr.  Deiss  on  the  assumption  of  the 
presidency of this Assembly at this sixty-fifth session. 
Our  appreciation  also  goes  to  Mr.  Ali  Treki  for  his 
leadership during the previous session, and to Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon for  his efforts to  strengthen  and promote the 
United Nations. 
(spoke in English) 
Let  me  begin  by  welcoming  the  results  of  the 

High-level  Plenary  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly 
32 

reach.  Reaffirming 
on 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs). 
Regardless of the fact that efforts to achieve the MDGs 
have  not  stayed  on  course,  their  attainment  is  still 
within  our 
the  principle  of 
solidarity between those who have and those who need 
is of the essence. My country faces challenges imposed 
by  the  global  economic  and  financial  crisis. We  have, 
however,  committed  ourselves  to  develop  our  own 
donor  capacity,  and  so  we  shall.  We  shall  do  so, 
because  Bulgaria  —  like  a  number  of  countries  that 
have joined the European Union (EU) since the fall of 
the  Berlin Wall  —  understands  that  the  solidarity  that 
was extended to us now needs to be extended by us to 
those  less  fortunate. To  be  effective,  we  shall  work  in 
close coordination with our partners, avoid duplication 
and  aim  at  addressing  the  root  causes  —  not  the 
symptoms — of today’s problems. Otherwise, we  will 
not be building a better tomorrow. In this effort the role 
of  the  United  Nations  will  always  remain  vitally 
important,  particularly  in  helping  to  mitigate  the 
development impact of the crisis on the less developed 
and most vulnerable countries. 

As  dangerous  as  the  current  global  crisis  is,  it 
also  gives  us  a  chance  to  green  our  economies, 
particularly  by  putting  them  on  a  sustainable  and 
low-carbon path. This year, 2010, has been proclaimed 
as  the  International  Year  of  Biodiversity.  Economic 
growth  and  the  preservation  of  the  environment  must 
go  hand-in-hand  across  the  globe. Today  there  can  be 
no  excuses  —  neither  in  developed  countries,  nor  in 
developing  countries  —  because  any  excuse  that  we 
find  today  will  cost  us  more  tomorrow.  That  is  why 
Bulgaria  believes  that  the  United  Nations  must  be 
given the tools to respond adequately to the increasing 
challenges of environmental protection. 
Today,  much  more  so  than  in  the  past,  we  see 

increased  demand  and  pressure  on 
international 
humanitarian  efforts.  The  devastating  earthquake  in 
Haiti last year killed hundreds of thousands and left a 
staggering  20  per  cent  of  the  population  homeless. 
Haiti’s call was, however, heeded throughout the globe. 
Allow me to praise the work of the United Nations and 
its agencies in responding quickly, but also pay tribute 
to all of the countries, non governmental organizations 
and individuals who came quickly to Haiti’s assistance. 
The  Bulgarian  Government  and  people  were  quick  to 
respond by providing financial  and in kind assistance, 
including  educational  opportunities  to  young  Haitians 
whose universities had been destroyed. 
10-55264 



This  year  we  have  to  help  in  the  struggle  of  the 
20  million  people  in  Pakistan  who  have  been  affected 
by  the  terrible  floods  that  have  wrecked  lives,  ruined 
crops  and  destroyed  economic  opportunities.  The 
Secretary-General and the United Nations were swift to 
react  and  deserve  praise  for  their  efforts,  as  does  the 
rapid  reaction  of  the  European  Union,  the  United 
States,  India  and  other  partners  around  the  world. 
Allow me to use this forum to call on all to strengthen 
their  efforts  in  assisting  the  people  of  Pakistan. 
However, I also call on Governments across the globe 
to  help  in  removing  barriers,  so  as  to  assist  the 
Pakistani  economy  in  its  recovery.  Helping  today  and 
creating opportunities tomorrow — that should be our 
goal  in  a  country  that  is  vital  to  global  stability  and 
security.  In  this,  let  me  assure  you  that  Bulgaria  will 
also shoulder its share of the needed solidarity. Already 
the  Government  and  the  Bulgarian  Red  Cross  have 
launched  a  nation-wide  campaign  to  raise  funds  and 
contribute to the rebuilding efforts in Pakistan. 

in  our 
No  matter  how  successful  we  are 
development  and  humanitarian  efforts,  the  benefits 
cannot  fully  be  borne  in  an  insecure  and  unstable 
environment. Allow me to briefly look closer to home 
—  the  Balkans  and  the  Eastern  Mediterranean.  The 
European Union was created to make war impossible in 
a continent that has seen at least a century of conflicts. 
In  Europe,  however,  we  have  unfinished  business. 
Europe  will  not  be  whole  and  complete  until  our 
neighbours  in  the  Balkans  join  our  Union.  It  falls  on 
us — those who joined the European Union late, not by 
their  own  choice,  but  because  of  the  ideological 
divisions of the cold war — to say it loud and clear: to 
make  war  impossible  in  the  Balkans  we  must  see  all 
countries 
former 
Yugoslavia become part of the European Union. This is 
our historic mission. It is our destiny. 

Bulgaria,  which  has  struggled  with  its  own 
transition and accession to the European Union, knows 
the benefits and the challenges best. That is why today 
I  am  proud  to  stand  here  and  commend  the  General 
Assembly for unanimously adopting resolution 64/298, 
approving the joint EU Serbia compromise text on the 
advisory  opinion  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
on 
independence  by  Kosovo. 
Bulgaria  supported  it  wholeheartedly,  because  we 
firmly  believe  that  dialogue  between  Belgrade  and 
Pristina is key, both to the stability of the region and to 
the European perspective of our neighbours. It will be 
that  have  emerged 
the  declaration  of 
from 
the 
A/65/PV.21
to 
and 
reforms 
the  efforts  of 
a  difficult  process,  charged  with  emotion  and  scarred 
by  history,  but  it  will  be  a  process  that  can  today  lay 
the  foundations  of  a  better  tomorrow  for  all.  It  is  a 
process  that  the  Bulgarian  Government  is  not  just 
willing,  but  eager  to  support,  and  will  lend  all 
necessary  assistance 
the  High 
Representative  of  the  European  Union  for  Foreign 
Affairs and Security. 

In  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  the  international 
community  faces  many  challenges,  but  the  struggle 
between the fears of yesterday and the opportunities of 
tomorrow  can  be  resolved  today  by  the  people  of 
Bosnia  themselves.  Bulgaria  will,  more  actively  than 
ever,  contribute  to  this  reconciliation,  because  we 
believe  that  our  role  in  South-Eastern  Europe  and 
beyond is to bring people together, not divide them; to 
seek solutions, not to watch from the sidelines. 

We  must  constantly  reaffirm  our  commitment  to 
bring  our  neighbours  in  the  Western  Balkans  into  the 
European  Union  when  they  meet  the  criteria  for 
membership.  But  our  neighbours  also  must  reaffirm 
their  own  commitment  to  undertaking  often  very 
difficult 
strengthening 
regional 
cooperation and good-neighbourly relations. 

There  are  cynics  who  say  that  the  world  cannot 
live  together,  that  for  peace  to  exist  we  must  build 
walls  of  separation  between  peoples,  religions  and 
ethnic  communities;  cynics  who  say  that  civilizations 
must clash. I come from a country that is in a turbulent 
part  of  the  world,  yet  we  have  managed  to  prove  that 
people  of  different  religions  —  Christians,  Muslims 
and  Jews,  and  of  different  ethnicities  —  Bulgarians, 
Turks and Armenians, can live together. 

Bulgaria  has  seen  stellar  moments  in  its  history, 
for example, when civil society rose during the Second 
World War  and  refused  to  allow  its  Jewish  population 
to be sent to concentration camps, or when it integrated 
its  Turkish  population  after  the  end  of  communism. 
But, it has also seen its dark moments — when it failed 
to  save  the  Jewish  populations  of  occupied  Northern 
Greece and Vardar Macedonia, or when the Communist 
regime expelled a large part of our Muslim citizens to 
Turkey.  Our  history  has  taught  us  to  be  able  to 
distinguish between good and bad. Our  history proves 
that the cynics are wrong, that people can live together 
in peace. 
That is why Bulgaria cannot remain uninterested 

in the Middle East. We believe that, just as the Jewish 
10-55264 

33 
that 
lives 
of 
to 

restart 
efforts 
in  peace  with 
A/65/PV.21 

people  have  a  homeland  in  the  State  of  Israel,  so  the 
Palestinian  people  have  the  right  to  an  independent 
State  of  Palestine 
its 
neighbours.  During  the  past  months  we  have  all 
witnessed 
the  United  States 
the 
Administration 
the  direct  negotiations 
between the Israelis and Palestinians. Many of us have 
made  passionate  speeches  on  the  need  and  urgency  of 
peace.  Today,  the  Palestinian  and  Israeli  leaders  face 
the  historic  challenge  of  looking  to  tomorrow  and  not 
being tied down by yesterday. The Middle East cannot 
afford a failed peace process. The world cannot afford 
a  peace  process  that  does  not  have  a  comprehensive 
end goal in sight. 

Today  we  must  all  recognize  that  hard  decisions 
are  called  for  and  lend  our  full  support  to  President 
Abbas  and  Prime  Minister  Netanyahu  to  help  them 
walk  the  hard  road  to  peace.  Obstacles  should  be 
overcome and preconditions should be removed. If the 
leaders of Palestine believe that settlement policy is an 
obstacle  to  peace,  the  leaders  of  Israel  must  refrain 
from such activities in order to give peace a chance. If 
the leaders of Israel believe that no preconditions to a 
final  settlement  should  be  put  in  place,  then  the 
Palestinian  leaders  must  refrain  from  such  actions  in 
order to give peace a chance. 

is  not  between  peace 
negotiations and economic development, because peace 
and  prosperity  go  hand  in  hand.  No  one  should  feel 
singled  out  or  left  behind,  because  the  enemies  of 
peace are many — those who feel that walls are safer 
than  bridges  and  those  who  feel  that  religions  cannot 
coexist.  You  can  take  away  a  man’s  life,  but  you 
ultimately cannot take away his faith or dignity. 

This  is  why  I  call  on  all  Members  of  the  United 
Nations to stand firmly behind the efforts of the Israeli 
and Palestinian leaders to achieve peace. In doing this, 
we  must  recognize  the  legitimate  concerns  of  both 
sides  —  Israel’s  security  and  the  viability  of  a 
Palestinian State. 

In this effort we should not forget the 1.5 million 
people who live in Gaza — Palestinians who have the 
right  to  a  better  life,  just  like  the  children  of  Sderot 
have  the  right  to  go  to  school  without  the  threat  of 
rockets. We have an obligation to help open up access 
to  Gaza  without  compromising  the  security  of  Israel. 
History has proven that isolation and deprivation breed 
The  choice 
today 
cannot 
Leaving 
the  NPT 
radicalism, and it is in the interest of peace that more 
opportunities be created. 

Today  the  world  faces  other  grave  security 
challenges  that  will  shape  our  tomorrow.  We  must 
reconfirm  our  commitment  to  halting  the  spread  of 
nuclear  weapons.  This  mission  is  above  politics, 
diplomacy,  national  ambitions  and  personal  egos.  It  is 
our  universal  obligation  and  a  joint  commitment  that 
we  undertook  40  years  ago.  Bulgaria  believes  that 
every  nation  must  put  a  strengthened  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  at  the 
centre  of  its  national  diplomacy.  The  uncovering  of 
clandestine nuclear networks has brought the spectre of 
non  State  actors  equipped  with  weapons  of  mass 
destruction  closer.  We  must  not  allow  this  to  happen. 
All  nations  must  recognize  that  the  nuclear  non 
proliferation  regime  is  undermined  if  violators  are 
allowed  to  act  with  impunity.  We  consider  all  States 
parties, including the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea, to be bound by their NPT obligations. 

be  without 
consequences. Justified concerns, however, remain also 
about  the  nuclear  programme  of  the  Islamic  Republic 
of  Iran.  We  call  on  Iran  to  deploy  the  necessary 
confidence-building  measures  to  provide  for  greater 
transparency on its nuclear activities. Bulgaria believes 
that  it  is  important  to  find  a  diplomatic  solution.  The 
recent efforts by Turkey and Brazil illustrate that there 
is  will  in  the  international  community  for  dialogue. 
Therefore,  a  swift  return  to  the  negotiation  table  and 
full  compliance  with  United  Nations  Security  Council 
resolutions,  as  well  as  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency (IAEA) standards and safeguards is a must. 

International terrorism is one of the most serious 
contemporary  threats  to  global  peace  and  security.  It 
cannot  be  justified  by  any  political,  philosophical, 
ideological, racial or ethnic considerations, nor by any 
ideology.  The  end  goal  of  terrorism  is  to  hinder  our 
efforts  to  guarantee  human  rights,  basic  freedoms  and 
democracy.  Within  the  framework  of  the  European 
Union,  Bulgaria  has  endorsed  the  implementation  of 
the United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy. 
I appeal for a prompt finalization of the negotiations to 
reach  a  comprehensive  convention  on  counter-
terrorism. 

An  old  nefarious  practice  has  re-emerged  on  the 
high seas — piracy. Bulgaria has been directly affected 
by  the  escalating  activities  and  audacity  of  the  pirates 
34 

10-55264 
leaves  much 


in the Gulf of Aden and off the coast of Somalia. The 
fight  against  piracy 
to  be  desired, 
however. We need a firm international legal framework 
for  the  trial,  detention  and  imprisonment  of  persons 
suspected of having committed acts of piracy. We need 
coordinated  actions  on  the  high  seas  to  protect  our 
shipping.  Perhaps  most  of  all,  we  need  to  address  the 
root causes of piracy — poverty, isolation and lack of 
opportunity. 

In Afghanistan, we face a threat that demands the 
continued military and civilian commitment on the part 
of  the  international  community,  which  hinges  on  two 
important  factors.  Firstly,  the  ability  of  the  Afghan 
Government to pave the way for reconciliation, tackle 
corruption  and  deliver  services  to  its  people  and  the 
renewed  commitment  of  the  international  community 
and  regional  neighbours  to  strengthen  the  Afghan 
National  Security  Forces,  while  maintaining 
the 
pressure  on  radicals  and  insurgents  and  limiting  their 
scope of action. 

In  these  tasks  the  coordinated  efforts  of  all,  but 
foremost  of  the  United  Nations,  NATO  and  the 
European  Union,  are  vital.  I  would  like  to  strongly 
support  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  Assistance 
Mission in Afghanistan and the Special Representative 
of 
in 
Afghanistan.  Their  efforts  should  be  appreciated  and 
fully supported by the international community. I want 
to also pay tribute to the brave men and women of all 
International  Security  Assistance  Force 
(ISAF) 
contributing  nations, 
roughly  600 
Bulgarian troops, who risk their lives to bring security 
to the people of Afghanistan. 

future  of 
Afghanistan is unfaltering, because we understand that 
it  is  our  joint  obligation  to  bring  security  to  that 
tortured  country,  whose  people  deserve  to  be  able  to 
enjoy  the  freedoms  and  opportunities  that  many  of  us 
have.  Bulgaria  has 
to  ISAF, 
including through more training units, which will work 
to build the capacity of the Afghan security forces. We 
continue to support the European Union Police Mission 
in  Afghanistan,  which,  jointly  with  NATO’s  Training 
Mission,  plays  an  important  role.  We  support  the 
Afghan  Government’s 
reintegration 
programme, in which the key role should be played by 
the  Afghan  State.  Our  commitment  to  Afghanistan  is 
based on our firm belief that, if we succeed today, we 
will all live safer tomorrow. 
the  Secretary-General,  Staffan  de  Mistura, 
commitment 
Bulgaria’s 
including 
peace 
increased 
its 
input 
and 
the 
to 
the 
A/65/PV.21

A comprehensive security system can rest only on 
a  robust  partnership  between  the  United  Nations  and 
regional  organizations.  This  is  why  Bulgaria  believes 
that  the  partnership  between  the  European  Union  and 
the United Nations is a strategic one. As the EU High 
Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security Policy, 
Catherine  Ashton,  put  it,  “Our  commitment  to  the 
multilateral  system  of  global  governance  through  the 
UN  and  other  bodies  is  clear”  and  we  work  “with 
conviction and clarity on the major challenges that face 
us,  be  they  climate  change,  poverty,  conflict  or 
terrorism”. 

The transformation of the EU into a legal subject 
of  international  relations  after  the  entry  into  force  of 
the Treaty of Lisbon has to be adequately reflected in a 
resolution  of  the  General  Assembly  regarding  the 
representation of the EU at the United Nations. 

In closing, let me briefly touch on the reform of 
the  United  Nations.  Bulgaria  is  convinced  that  if  we 
are to effectively tackle the challenges of tomorrow, we 
must  continuously  adapt  and  improve  the  United 
Nations  system.  Therefore  it  is  imperative  that  we 
continue  the  course  of  reforms  initiated  by  the  2005 
World Summit. 

We  believe  that  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council is part of a comprehensive agenda for change 
at the United Nations. Bulgaria declares itself in favour 
of  an  enlargement  of  the  Security  Council  capable  of 
generating  the  largest  possible  consensus.  In  that 
context,  Bulgaria  has  endorsed  the  enlargement  of  the 
Council  in  its  two  categories  —  permanent  and  non 
permanent members. 

I  started  by  reiterating  our  firm  commitment  to 
multilateralism.  The  agenda  of  the  United  Nations  is 
broad  and  diverse,  and  I  have  attempted,  on  behalf  of 
the  Government  of  Bulgaria,  to  briefly  touch  on  just 
some  of  the  issues  that  ought  to  be  discussed  in  this 
forum. 
to  multilateralism  can  be 

equalled  only  by  our  unfaltering  belief  that  dialogue 
and  diplomacy 
can 
confrontation  and  war.  More  than  half  a  century  ago, 
the United Nations came together and enshrined those 
principles  as  the  cornerstones  of  international  law. 
Since  then,  with  varying  degrees  of  success,  we  have 
attempted  to  live  by  them.  It  is  time  for  us  to  realize 
that  the  global  challenges  of  tomorrow  can  be  tackled 
only by collective action today. Nothing is impossible, 
Our  commitment 
achieve  more 
than 
can 
10-55264 

35 

I  wish  also 
A/65/PV.21 

but  only  if  we  work  together,  discuss,  disagree  and 
agree,  but  share  a  goal  —  a  peaceful  and  prosperous 
world that is safe for all. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now  call  on 

His Excellency Mr. Osman Mohammed Saleh, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Eritrea. 
Mr. Saleh (Eritrea): Let me start by extending my 

sincere congratulations to you, Mr. President, and your 
country, Switzerland, for your election to preside over 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session.  I  am 
confident  that  with  your  extensive  experience  and 
diplomatic  skill,  you  will  lead  this  session  to  a 
successful  conclusion.  I  pledge  the  support  of  the 
Eritrean  delegation  in  your  noble  efforts  for  the 
common  good. 
to  commend  your 
predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki, 
President  of  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth  session, 
for his excellent leadership. He indeed served us well. I 
would  also  like  to  thank  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki 
moon for his leadership and his report on the work of 
our United Nations at the outset of this general debate 
(see A/65/PV.11). 
We  meet  again,  at  this  sixty-fifth  session  of  the 

Assembly,  to  expound  on  the  state  of  our  individual 
countries  and  to  reflect  on  regional,  continental  and 
global  affairs.  We  come  to  this  gathering  year  after 
year to share our thoughts and explain our positions on 
some issues of interest. Yet we realize that the outcome 
of  our  deliberations  and  resolutions  falls  far  short  of 
our  own  expectations,  let  alone  the  aspirations  of 
humanity. We agree that the institutions and procedures 
of this Organization have long outlived their time, and 
yet we remain paralysed in our efforts to transform the 
United Nations. 
While  the  prospects  for  a  rapid  reform  of  the 

United  Nations  system  appear  to  be  dim,  we  cannot 
and will not give up. We have to continue to speak out 
and work tirelessly for a United Nations that is fit for 
the  twenty-first  century  and  for  a  more  just  and 
equitable world. At the same time, we have to focus on 
our  own  nations  and  regions  to  ensure  a  peaceful  and 
stable environment and a dignified life for our peoples. 
It  is  that  perspective  that  informs  Eritrea’s  policies  at 
the national, regional and international levels. 
Internationally, Eritrea seeks, through robust and 

constructive 
its  modest 
contribution  to  global  peace,  security,  justice  and 
equity  and  to  the  protection  and  enhancement  of  the 
engagement, 
to  make 
in 
the 
parties 
to 
to 
support 
to  contribute 
its  history.  Eritrea  believes 
environment  in  the  face  of  changes  that  threaten  the 
very survival of humanity. 

Regionally,  Eritrea’s  efforts  are  directed  at 
securing peace, stability, development and cooperation 
in  the  wider  Horn  of Africa  and  the  Red  Sea  regions. 
We  endeavour 
transforming  our 
dangerous  neighbourhood,  a  neighbourhood  mired  in 
numerous  conflicts,  into  a  cooperative  and  peaceful 
region. In that connection,  I wish to touch upon some 
of Eritrea’s immediate concerns. 
In regard to the Sudan, Eritrea is working closely 

with  the  Sudanese  parties  and  with  regional  and 
international  actors  as  the  country  enters  a  critical 
the 
period 
that 
international  community  as  a  whole  needs 
to 
wholeheartedly 
the 
Comprehensive Peace Agreement as they approach the 
momentous  referendum  date  in  January  2011,  and 
beyond. Irrespective of the outcome of the referendum, 
relations  of  trust  and  cooperation  between  the  parties 
are crucial for peace and stability, not only in the north 
and  south,  but  throughout  the  region.  For  all  those 
reasons,  we  ought  to  encourage  the  parties  to  reach 
agreement on the post referendum issues and relations 
as  soon  as  is  feasible.  There  is  also  a  need  to 
simultaneously  help  the  protagonists  in  the  Darfur 
conflict  to  finally  reach  an  agreement  within  the 
context of the Doha talks that are set to resume in the 
next few days. 

On Somalia, it is Eritrea’s considered view, borne 
out  by  the  bitter  experience  and  spiralling  violence  of 
the  past  two  decades,  that  there  can  be  no  military 
solution 
that 
conviction by now is widely shared in the international 
community,  serious  doubts  continue  to  be  raised  as  to 
whether the alternative — that is, a Somali-owned and 
Somali-driven, 
is 
possible and practicable. 

Eritrea does not by any means believe or suggest 
that that is easy or that it can lead to immediate results. 
It  will  undoubtedly  be  a  complex  and  protracted 
process, but ultimately achievable. For, even in the past 
two  turbulent  decades,  Somalis  have  more  than  once 
demonstrated  that,  given  the  right  environment,  they 
are  capable  of  finding  home-grown  solutions  to  their 
problems.  Eritrea  therefore  urges  the  United  Nations 
and  all  those  concerned  with  peace  and  stability  in 
Somalia to earnestly engage all Somalis and to give the 
inclusive  political  process  — 
in  Somalia.  While 
to 
the  problem 
36 

10-55264 
stems 
from 
its 


political  process  the  serious  and  sustained  attention  it 
deserves. 

I turn next to the matter of Eritrea and  Ethiopia. 
While the United Nations grapples with the Sudan and 
Somalia, it continues to ignore the grave consequences 
of  Ethiopia’s  continued  occupation  of  sovereign 
Eritrean  territory,  eight  years  after  the  ruling  of  the 
Eritrea-Ethiopia Boundary Commission and three years 
after  the  Commission  ended  its  work  by  depositing 
with  the  United  Nations  the  demarcation  of  the 
boundary between the two countries. 

Ethiopia’s  illegal  occupation  and  the  United 
Nations  silence,  which  mean  the  continuation  of  the 
conflict,  are  exacting  a  heavy  price  on  the  peoples  of 
Eritrea and Ethiopia and are complicating the regional 
situation.  I  wish  to  remind  the  United  Nations  that 
Eritrea  awaits  responsible  and  urgent  action  to  end 
Ethiopia’s  violation  of  international  law  and  its  threat 
to regional peace and security. 
Eritrea’s  constructive  engagement  on  regional 

and 
international  matters 
firm 
conviction  that  a  conducive  external  environment  is 
essential  for  nation-building.  As  Eritrea  enters  its 
twentieth year of independence, it remains focused on 
broad-based  and  people-centred  political,  economic, 
social  and  cultural  development  that  will  afford  a  life 
of  dignity  and  prosperity  to  our  people. After  several 
years  of  consistent  investments  in  health,  education, 
agriculture  and  other  essential  infrastructure,  we  have 
created a solid basis for sustained economic growth. It 
is  expected  that  trade  and  domestic  and  foreign 
investment  will  provide  additional  impetus  for  the 
growth of our economy. I wish to seize this opportunity 
to  extend  an  invitation  to  all  interested  countries  and 
their 
in 
development. 
The President (spoke in French): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Pastor  Micha  Ondo  Bile, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs, International Cooperation 
and la Francophonie of Equatorial Guinea. 
Mr.  Micha  Ondo  Bile  (Equatorial  Guinea) 

(spoke in Spanish): I have the great honour to speak at 
the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General  Assembly  on 
behalf of His Excellency Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema 
Mbasogo, President and head of State of the Republic 
of  Equatorial  Guinea,  who  is  not  able  to  be  here  to 
participate, as he would have liked, owing to numerous 
high matters of State. 
to  become  our  partners 
enterprises 
A/65/PV.21

In the name of the Government and the people of 
Equatorial  Guinea,  I  would  first  like  to  address  our 
most  sincere  congratulations  to  you,  Sir,  on  your 
unanimous  and  wise  election  as  President  of  the 
General Assembly  at  this  session.  We  wish  you  great 
success  in  leading  its  work  and  deliberations.  I  also 
extend our thanks to the other elected members of the 
Bureau.  Most  especially,  we  wish  to  express  our 
admiration  and  respect  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ali 
Abdussalam  Treki,  outgoing  President  and  eminent 
diplomat  of  Africa,  who  did  outstanding  work  as 
President  at  the  sixty-fourth  session  and  who  is 
responsible  for  our  beginning 
this  session  with 
optimism. 

The  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea  reaffirms  its 
resolute  commitment  and  attachment  to  the  ideals, 
principles and objectives of the United Nations. In that 
context,  I  salute  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  and 
reiterate to him the recognition of the Government and 
people of Equatorial Guinea of his wise administration 
at the head of this great Organization. In particular, we 
appreciate his vision and the timeliness with which he 
has identified the seven strategic themes of our current 
world,  which  merit  the  greatest  attention  from  every 
State Member during this session. 

Equatorial  Guinea  is  taking  part  in  the  work  of 
this session with a good deal of optimism with regard 
to  an  eventual  and  gradual  solution  of  the  problems 
today  facing  humankind  in  general,  and  the  African 
continent in particular. Above all, that is because since 
the  1990s  there  have  been  several  initiatives  aimed  at 
encouraging sustainable development. Those initiatives 
have  been  promoted  through  major  world  conferences 
and  summits  that  have  addressed  such  major  subjects 
as  population  and  sustainable  development,  food,  the 
environment  and  financing  for  development.  In  the 
context  of  this  2010  session,  we  shall  consider  the 
implementation  of  and  follow-up  to  the  outcomes  of 
those  major  summits  and  conferences,  such  as  the 
Millennium Summit. 

What  can  we  see  after  more  than  10  years  since 
those summits, especially the Millennium Summit? As 
has  been  wisely  pointed  out  in  previous  interventions 
in the Assembly, there is no point in doing things in the 
same way and expecting different results. 

Unfortunately,  both  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  (A/65/1)  and  the  interventions  delivered  in 
recent  days  by  different  delegations  during  the  High-
10-55264 

37 

in 
and 
several 
countries 
A/65/PV.21 

level  Meeting  on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
indicate  that  rather  than  improving,  the  number  of 
people  who  suffer  from  hunger  has  increased,  the 
number of those living in poverty remains high and the 
environment  has  been  degraded.  The  latter  has  led  to 
serious  climactic  changes  and  the  ensuing  natural 
disasters,  including  constant  flooding,  earthquakes, 
hurricanes  and  so  on,  which  have  caused 
total 
destruction 
seriously 
undermined people’s ability to survive. 

Were  that  not  enough,  there  has  also  been  an 
increase  in  acts  of  international  terrorism,  organized 
and  cross-border  crime  and  piracy  on  a  continental 
level.  There  has  also  been  a  worsening  in  the  acute 
economic  crisis,  which  continues 
to  affect  all 
humankind. All those phenomena illustrate the need for 
greater awareness and coordination on the part of every 
country on the planet. 

All  of  us  must  focus  our  efforts,  energy  and 
resources  on  promoting  and  maintaining  peace  and 
security  in  the  world,  fostering  a  healthy  environment 
and  actively  working  and  cooperating  to  eradicate 
nuclear  weapons  and  to  forcefully  combat  terrorism 
and  international  organized  crime.  We  should  work 
side by side to shape a world where there is a sense of 
participation  and  equality  among  men  and  women;  a 
world where Security Council reform allows for better 
representation,  participation  and  decision-taking  that 
reflect  the  will  and  interests  of  every  region  and 
country of the world — large, medium or small. 

the 
importance that “every Member country of the United 
Nations  be  clearly  involved  here,  at  the  heart  of  the 
United Nations, to respond to urgent matters of today’s 
world”.  It  was  that  call  that,  in  2007,  inspired  His 
Excellency the President of the Republic of Equatorial 
Guinea  to  propose  to  the  General  Conference  of  the 
United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural 
Organization  —  UNESCO  —  the  creation  of  an 
international  prize  for  scientific  investigation  in  the 
field  of  life  sciences.  That  $3  million  contribution  is 
destined for the international scientific community, and 
its  purpose  is  to  seek  solutions  and  remedies  to  the 
major  pandemics  and  diseases  that  afflict  the  world 
today in general and especially the African continent. 

international 
scientific  community, despite the  potential to alleviate 
the suffering of vulnerable communities, particularly in 
interventions  have  underscored 
the  great  need  of 
Previous 
Despite 
the 
as 
reasons, 
For  all  of 
organizations, 
it  unprecedented  and 
Africa,  despite  having  been  duly  approved  by  the 
States members of the UNESCO Executive Board, and 
despite the unanimous decision of the international jury 
for  the  prize  designating  three  international  scientists, 
most  of  them  from  developing  countries,  as  winners, 
this  prize  is  still  being  blocked  simply  for  being  the 
initiative of an African leader. 

The  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea  cannot  but 
denounce  the  manipulations  and  manoeuvres  of  the 
new UNESCO administration against the humanitarian 
initiative of the people of Equatorial Guinea. As a State 
member,  we  find 
therefore 
disturbing that a decision made by the Executive Board 
of  a  United  Nations  agency  is  not  carried  out  by  its 
leadership.  What  is  most  disturbing  is  that  clear 
manipulations  and  injustices  of  certain  undeclared 
interests have become apparent even in the heart of the 
United  Nations-related 
is, 
unfortunately,  the  case  with  UNESCO,  where  we 
believed  that  all  the  member  States  had  the  same 
consideration and rights. 

the  people  and 
those 
Government of Equatorial Guinea agree that this is the 
appropriate  occasion  and  place  to  once  more  express 
their  deep  concern  regarding  the  irresponsible,  openly 
unjust  and  racist  attitude  that  some  actors,  masked  as 
non  governmental  organizations,  are  orchestrating 
against 
the 
humanitarian  intentions  that  led  to  the  creation  of  the 
UNESCO Obiang Nguema Mbasogo Prize to motivate 
and encourage the action of scientists around the world 
in research for the preservation of life. 

The  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea  asks  that  the 
UNESCO  Obiang  Nguema  Mbasogo  International 
Prize for Research in the Life Sciences come to fruition 
without further delay, in accordance with decision 180 
EX/57,  which  was  adopted  by  consensus  by  all  the 
States  members  of  the  UNESCO  Executive  Board  in 
October 2008. 

is  an 
independent  and  sovereign  State,  governed  by  a 
democratic  and  pluralist  political  system  that  respects 
the basic rights of people without racial, ethnic, gender 
or  religious  discrimination.  Those  principles  are 
contained in the fundamental law  and in the laws that 
serve as the basis for our country’s legal system, which 
guarantees  and  promotes  the  individual  and  collective 
freedoms  of  the  citizens  of  Equatorial  Guinea  and 
The  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea 
praiseworthy 
initiative 
and 
the 
38 

10-55264 


provides  for  punishment  for  offenders  who  could 
violate  the  rule  of  law.  Indeed,  the  Constitution  of 
Equatorial Guinea reserves an important and privileged 
place  for  human  rights  and  basic  freedoms,  inasmuch 
as  they  are  based  on  the  United  Nations  Charter  and 
their principles and goals are inspired by the Universal 
Declaration of Human Rights. 

Therefore, our country has begun a reform of its 
judicial  system  and  has  already  ratified  several 
international  agreements  and  treaties  concerning  the 
promotion and protection of human rights, which have 
come  to  be  an  integral  part  of  our  legal  system. 
Likewise,  in  the  last  10  years  the  Government  has 
made significant progress in updating and adapting its 
legislative,  legal  and  administrative  instruments  with 
regard  to  the  promotion  and  protection  of  civil  and 
political rights, as well as social, economic and cultural 
rights. 

In  addition  to  those  enormous  and  ongoing 
efforts, the Government of Equatorial Guinea has taken 
several  other  relevant  measures  and  provisions  to 
strengthen  the  implementation  of  the  laws  in  force  in 
the  country  in  order  to  promote  human  rights  and  the 
rule  of 
the  recent 
enactment of  the new  Organic Law  of Judicial Power, 
which  determines  the  overall  organization  of  the 
judicial  system  and 
in 
Equatorial Guinea. 

the  world’s  nations  have 
witnessed an intensification and increase of violence in 
acts of terrorism, in particular starting with the tragedy 
that  took  place  in  this  beautiful  and  historic  North 
American  city  of  New  York  on  11  September  2001. 
Such  acts  have  meant  that  the  fight  against  terrorism 
has become a one of the priorities of international and 
national policy of all countries. 

In that disturbing context, the United Nations and 
international law have been defining a set of very strict 
obligations  that  States  must  comply  with  in  order  to 
ensure  an  effective  fight  against  that  global  scourge, 
which  affects  all  States  equally, 
irrespective  of 
nationality  or  borders.  In  particular,  we  must  bear  in 
mind  resolution  1373  (2001),  and  other  related 
resolutions  of  the  Security  Council,  which  represents 
an  important  milestone  with  regard  to  international 
standards  in  the  fight  against  terrorism.  Indeed,  that 
law.  A  particular 
the  operation  of 
recent  years, 
instance 
justice 
In 
is 
A/65/PV.21
the 
that 
loyal 
include 
remains 
implementation 
Equatorial  Guinea 
resolution  is  a  general  standard  and  imposes  upon 
States  a  set  of  obligations 
that  of 
criminalizing  specific  conducts,  such  as  the  financing 
of terrorism or the recruitment of members of terrorist 
groups.  Consequently, 
of 
international  standards  in  the  fight  against  terrorism 
and,  in  particular,  its  criminal  classification,  is  not 
merely  a  decision  of  domestic  criminal  policy,  but 
rather a matter of compliance with obligations imposed 
by international law in general. 

Our country has been a victim of terrorist attacks 
on  several  occasions  in  the  past  five  years,  and  as  a 
result the Government of Equatorial Guinea has put the 
fight  against  terrorism  among  the  priorities  of  its 
Action  Plan  for  national  development,  while  at  the 
same  time  condemning  in  the  most  vigorous  terms  all 
acts  of  terrorism,  regardless  of  their  motivation  or 
origin,  since  those  acts  constitute  one  of  the  most 
serious threats to international peace and security. 

to 
its 
commitments  and  is  deeply  convinced  of  the  need  to 
continue the efforts it has been deploying in connection 
with the Millennium Declaration and in harmony with 
the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations 
aimed  at  overcoming 
the  many  challenges  of 
development. 

However,  the  current  situation  requires  a  closer 
and  more  dynamic,  effective,  sincere  and  coordinated 
cooperation,  without  any  conditions,  as  well  as  the 
coordinated  and  united  support  of  all  of  the  political 
forces  of  developed,  developing  and  least  developed 
countries,  with  a  view  to  promoting  shared  prosperity 
and a better future for all the world’s countries. 

I would like to conclude my statement on behalf 
of  the  Government  of  Equatorial  Guinea  by  renewing 
our  strong  desire  to  change  the  current  concept  and 
management  of  international  affairs  —  in  which  the 
often  exclusive  attitudes  of  certain  States  and  regions 
can be discerned — through a firmer and more sincere 
commitment  of  the  entire  international  community  in 
favour  of  the  current  United  Nations  reform  process 
which  is  designed  to  strengthen  multilateralism.  Only 
in that way can we establish solid and lasting bases for 
a  world  of  peace  and  security  —  a  prosperous  world 
for today and a solid inheritance for future generations. 

  The meeting rose at 1 p.m. 
10-55264 

39 
