United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

6th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 21 September 2010, 3 p.m. 
New York 






A/65/PV.6
Official Records
(President of the General Assembly at its sixty-fourth session)
(President of the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session) 
Co-Chair: Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki . . . . . . . . .
Co-Chair: Mr. Joseph Deiss . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
  The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m. 










High-level Plenary Meeting on the Millennium 
Development Goals 
Agenda items 13 and 115 (continued)
Integrated and coordinated implementation of and 
follow-up to the outcomes of the major United 
Nations conferences and summits in the economic, 
social and related fields 
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit 
  Draft resolution (A/65/L.1) 

The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The General Assembly will now hear an address by His 
Excellency  Mr.  Ernest  Bai  Koroma,  President  of  the 
Republic of Sierra Leone. 

President  Koroma:  Allow  me  to  begin  this 
intervention  by  congratulating  Mr.  Deiss  on  his 
assumption  of  the  presidency  at  the  sixty-fifth  session 
of  the  United  Nations  General  Assembly,  and  to 
express  sincere  thanks  to  the  Secretary-General  for 
organizing this High-level event on the implementation 
of the Millennium Declaration (resolution 55/2) of the 
Summit  in  2000.  This  undoubtedly  underscores  the 
importance  the  Secretary-General  attaches  to  scaling 
up  action 
for 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs). 
five  years 
remain 
that 
the 
in 
the  environment 

Exactly 10 years ago, at the Millennium Summit, 
nations,  particularly  rich  ones,  made  solemn  promises 
to  more  than  a  billion  people  to  address,  among  other 
things,  the  raging  poverty  and  hunger  afflicting  them; 
and to improve their quality of life through a renewed 
commitment  to  fighting  poverty,  improving  education 
and  health,  and  protecting 
in 
developing  countries  within  a  specific  time  frame  of 
15 years. 
In this statement, I will share with the Assembly:  

first, the progress my country, Sierra Leone, has made 
towards  achieving  the  MDGs;  and,  secondly,  the 
outlook and challenges we face going forward. 

When  the  MDGs  were  launched,  Sierra  Leone 
was  engulfed  in  a  decade-long  civil  conflict.  That 
conflict  was 
to  human 
development  and  virtually  crippled  the  economy.  The 
end  of  the  civil  war  in  2002  left  the  State  very  weak 
and absent in many parts of the country. Economic and 
financial  management  was 
largely  on 
emergency  and  humanitarian  activities.  Economic  and 
human development programmes were given relatively 
limited  attention.  Consequently,  social  indicators  were 
worse than at prewar levels. Clearly, Sierra Leone was 
going in the wrong direction during the first decade of 
the MDG agenda. 

However, since my assumption of office in 2007, 
we  have  made  considerable  progress  in  consolidating 
peace  and  security.  We  have  also 
focused  on 
consolidating democracy through the  electoral process 
immense 
focused 
setback 
an 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-54304 (E) 
*1054304* 


demonstrated 
The  Government 
to  staying 
A/65/PV.6 

and  by  increasing  transparency  and  accountability. 
Notably, our  sustained  commitment and actions aimed 
at ridding our society of corrupt practices are yielding 
positive  results,  as  service  delivery  has  improved 
significantly.  Between  2008  and  2009,  Sierra  Leone 
improved  its  ranking  on  the  Corruption  Perceptions 
Index by 12 places. 

I  believe  that  achieving the  MDGs  will  be  made 
much easier if the economy is on the right track and the 
people feel that their lives are getting better. The recent 
global  crisis  presented  enormous  challenges  for  the 
robust  growth  of  our  economy,  but  we  weathered  the 
storm, achieving a growth rate of 5.5 per cent in 2008 
and  4  per  cent  in  2009.  Though  this  is  above  the 
average growth rate of 2 per cent for Africa, it is below 
the rate necessary to pull our people out of poverty. We 
are projecting more robust growth this year, which will 
certainly increase our capacity to overcome poverty. 

has 
its 
commitment 
the  course  of  sustained 
macroeconomic  stability  and  enhanced  growth  with 
prudent economic policies and wide-ranging structural 
reforms through its Agenda for Change. The policy sets 
out 
the  country’s 
development  and  prioritizes  four  strategic  areas: 
enhancing  the  national  electricity  system;  developing 
the  national 
enhancing 
productivity  in  agriculture  and  fisheries;  and  ensuring 
sustainable  human  development,  notably,  in  the  areas 
of  health,  education,  water  and  sanitation.  As  those 
four pillars address the prevailing weak economic and 
social 
infrastructure 
bottlenecks,  they  facilitate  the  achievement  of  the 
MDGs. 

Overall,  the  conditions  for  setting  up  a  business 
in Sierra Leone have significantly improved, owing to 
an  increased  effort  by  the  Government  to  address 
issues surrounding the business environment, including 
reform  of  the  business  climate.  At  present,  however, 
poor infrastructure continues to be a major obstacle to 
private sector growth in Sierra Leone. That is why we 
are  currently  developing  a  national  transportation 
network and a reliable power supply as we transit from 
a post-conflict situation to development.  

However,  some  of  the  MDGs  and  related  targets 
may be missed in Sierra Leone. The rate of progress on 
poverty,  maternal  health,  child  mortality,  environmental 
sustainability and gender equality is still very slow. To 
the  Government’s  plans 
indicators,  as  well  as 
transportation  network; 
the 
for 
to 
for 
build 
strong 
continue 
address that, we introduced a free health-care initiative 
for  pregnant  women,  lactating  mothers  and  children 
under  five.  Since  we  launched  that  initiative  in  April 
this year, there has been an increase of over 70 per cent 
in  institutional  delivery  and  a  huge  increase  in  the 
demand  for  health-care  services  by  the  target  group. 
We  believe  that  this  will  significantly  improve  our 
country’s maternal and child health indicators. 

However,  poverty  and  illiteracy  remain  the  two 
main factors negatively influencing achievement of the 
other MDGs. If the MDGs are to be achieved by 2015, 
not  only  should  the  level  of  investment  be  scaled  up, 
but  innovative  programmes  and  policies  for  enhanced 
economic  and  social  transformation  must  be  further 
developed and rapidly implemented. In that respect, we 
must 
collaborative 
partnerships  between  Government  agencies  and 
development  partners 
the  development  and 
implementation  of  programmes  that  have  a  significant 
impact on human development.  

The challenges to our achievement of the MDGs 
are immense, but building synergies represents the best 
hope for overcoming them and meeting the aspirations 
for  a  better  life  that  are  embedded  in  the  MDGs.  Last 
week, my country received a Millennium Development 
Goals  Award  for  showing  leadership  in  combating 
HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  other  diseases.  This  shows 
that,  with  sustained  partnership,  the  leadership  of 
Sierra  Leone  can  ensure  that  many  of  the  challenges 
our  nation  now  faces  in  achieving  the  MDGs  will  be 
overcome.  
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Marcus  Stephen,  President  of  the 
Republic of Nauru. 
President  Stephen:  I  would  like  to  extend  my 

warm  congratulations  to  you,  Mr.  Co-Chair,  on  your 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fifth session, and wish you success in leading our 
deliberations.  

tenth 
anniversary  of  the  historic  meeting  at  which  we 
articulated  our  collective  global  commitments 
to 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 
by  2015.  Despite  concerted  efforts,  the  scorecard  for 
the  Pacific  region,  which  includes  my  own  country, 
Nauru,  runs  a  very  high  risk  of  not  recording  the 
achievement  of  most  of  the  MDGs.  Our  region  is 
We  are  gathered  here 
today  on 
the 
2 

10-54304 
targeted 
the  most  vulnerable 
long-term  milestones,  and 


among 
to  economic  and 
environmental shocks owing to many factors, including 
geographic isolation, small populations and economies, 
a  high  reliance  on  expensive  imports,  vulnerability  to 
natural  disasters,  fragile  freshwater  supplies,  narrow 
resource  bases,  costly  public  administration  and  weak 
infrastructure.  

Those  challenges  have  been  exacerbated  by 
recent  setbacks,  both  internal  and  external,  including 
the impact  of the global financial  and  economic crisis 
and  rising  energy  and  food  prices,  as  well  as  the 
mounting problems posed by climate change, sea-level 
rise  and  food  security,  all  of  which  have  undermined 
the socio-economic development of our communities. 

Nauru  fully  subscribes  to  the  view  that  if  the 
MDGs  are  to  be  achieved  by  2015,  the  targets  for 
financial  support  and  investment  must  be  met.  Such 
investment  must  be 
to  address  national 
priorities.  For  that  reason,  Nauru  adopted  its  National 
Sustainable Development Strategy in 2005. It provides 
a  clear  and  detailed  road  map  for  meeting  numerous 
medium-  and 
is  fully 
consistent with, and complementary to, the MDGs. We 
must recognize and exploit the synergies between bold 
international  development  initiatives  and  the  detailed 
plans created and implemented at the domestic level. 

Regarding small island developing States (SIDS) 
like mine, there are several specific issues that need to 
be highlighted and addressed. 
has 

the  special 
consistently  and  formally  recognized 
circumstances  and  vulnerabilities  of  small 
island 
developing States. Yet the level of support provided to 
the SIDS has not been commensurate with the scale of 
development  challenges  that  we  face. The  preparatory 
work  for  the  Five-Year  Review  of  the  Mauritius 
Strategy 
the 
for  Sustainable 
Barbados  Programme  of  Action 
Development  of  SIDS  highlighted 
those 
vulnerabilities 
towards 
sustainable  development  for  small  island  developing 
States is below expectation.  
It  is  now  time  for  a  new  approach  that  targets 

those  vulnerabilities.  I  therefore  urge  all  Member 
States  to  support  the  calls  to  create  a  formal  category 
of  SIDS 
institutionalizes  structural  support 
mechanisms targeting those vulnerabilities in the areas 
of  trade  and  financial  support. The  creation  of  such  a 
Implementation  of 
international 
the  Further 
community 
progress 
remain, 
and 
First, 
the 
that 
for 
that 
A/65/PV.6
of 
the 
highlight 
importance 
therefore  have 
category is long overdue. The framework developed for 
the  least  developed  countries  can  serve  as  a  useful 
guide. 

Secondly,  education  and  public  health  underpin 
all the MDGs, and public investment in those sectors is 
vital.  Education  is  one  area  in  which  Nauru  has  made 
progress, and we will likely meet our goal of universal 
primary  education.  However,  we  still  lack  enough 
qualified  teachers  to  meet  demand,  and  we  need  new 
schools. 
Improving  public  health  has  been  a  bigger 

challenge, specifically MDG 6 pertaining to combating 
HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  other  diseases.  Nauru  wishes 
to 
addressing 
non-communicable  diseases,  which  we  view  to  be  a 
development  issue  and  not  purely  a  health  issue. 
Nearly 75 per cent of those in the Pacific region suffer 
from non-communicable diseases, and it is the leading 
cause of mortality. The cost and burden of intervention 
are  high  for  both  individuals  and  health  systems,  and 
soon  become  unaffordable. 
left  unabated  will 
Non-communicable  diseases 
the 
potential  to  overwhelm  our  social  and  economic 
development, as they undermine our quality of life and 
productivity. 

The  development  of  our  basic  infrastructure  has 
lagged  behind  investment  in  health  and  education  and 
is now Nauru’s largest barrier to economic growth. It is 
difficult  to  expand  our  industries  unless  we  have  a 
transportation  system  capable  of  delivering  our 
products  to  market  cheaply  and  efficiently.  Economic 
growth  is  also  necessary  to  provide  employment 
opportunities  for  our  youth,  so  that  they  can  develop 
the  skills  they  need  to  compete  in  the  globalized 
economy.  Investment 
infrastructure  can  bring 
immediate  economic  gains  that  accelerate  progress  in 
other areas. 

Of  course,  climate  change  and  its  associated 
adverse  impacts  threaten  to  undo  all  the  progress  we 
have  made  towards  our  MDGs  and  make  further 
development 
impossible.  Although  climate  change 
threatens small island States more severely than most, 
it  is  not  a  problem  of  our  own  making.  I  urge  the 
largest emitters to remember the consequences of their 
behaviour for the most vulnerable.  
Right  now,  negotiations  are  seriously  off  track. 

this 
We  have  an  opportunity 
November at the sixteenth Conference of the Parties to 
to  change  course 
in 
10-54304 

3 

to  commit 
the  MDGs  and  rapidly  moving 
A/65/PV.6 

the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change.  Major  emitting  countries  must  arrive  in 
Cancun,  Mexico,  prepared 
to  drastic 
emissions  reductions  and  to  support  the  adaptation 
needs of the most vulnerable. Only then will the most 
vulnerable among us have a chance of survival. 

For  small  island  States  such  as  Nauru,  overseas 
development  assistance  is  crucial  to  making  progress 
on 
towards  aid 
independence.  It  has  been  widely  recognized  that 
globally,  satisfactory  progress  towards  achieving  the 
MDGs had been made in the past ten years. However, 
there are real concerns that the recent global financial 
crisis will cause us to lose these gains.  

We cannot afford to allow the recent crisis to lead 
to  another  wave  of  negative  impacts  on  the  most 
vulnerable as a consequence of downward adjustments 
in  official  development  assistance  commitments  by 
developed countries. This short-term savings will only 
result  in  higher  costs  in  the  long  term  and  more 
suffering for those who already suffer the most. 
Delivering  on  official  development  assistance 

the  predictability, 
commitments 
effectiveness  and  modality  of  disbursement  are 
urgently  needed.  In  spite  of  the  late  hour,  Nauru  is 
hopeful  that  the  MDGs  can  still  be  achieved  in  every 
country,  but  this  will  only  be  possible  with  renewed 
commitment  and  effective  implementation  of  national 
development strategies. 

The world has endured much since our last MDG 
meeting,  and  I  am  sure  more  unexpected  disasters  — 
natural  and  man-made  —  will  challenge  us  before  we 
reach 2015. Indeed, the consequences of the economic 
events of recent years serve to remind us exactly why 
achieving the MDGs is imperative. As we approach the 
deadline  for  the  Goals  we  set  for  ourselves,  let  us 
rekindle the spirit of the Millennium Summit and fulfil 
our  promise  to  improve  the  lives  of  the  people  we 
serve. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Paul  Kagame,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Rwanda. 
President  Kagame:  We  gather  here  today  to 

reaffirm  our 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  and  to  agree  on  a 
practical  way 
their 
commitment 
accelerating 
and 
improving 
to 
forward 
for 
in  developed  economies, 
achievement by 2015. We currently have a great deal of 
momentum  behind 
this  agenda,  which  we  must 
individually  and  collectively  seize,  as  I  firmly  believe 
these goals can be realized. 

However,  to  do  so,  we  must  first  reflect  upon 
whether  our  values  and  underlying  beliefs  are 
consistent  with  the  Goals  we  have  espoused  and  the 
many  commitments  we  have  made.  If  we  do  not 
examine  the  assumptions  underlying  these  laudable 
aspirations,  we  will  struggle  to  achieve  the  MDGs, 
despite our best efforts. 

The  truth  is  that  the  political  and  economic 
environment  we  operate  in  today  has  dramatically 
changed  and,  in  many  ways,  is  unrecognizable  from 
when  the  MDGs  were  established  a  decade  ago.  The 
financial  downturn 
the 
increased pressure on poor nations to compete in an era 
of globalization, the growing influence of new partners 
to  the  East  and  South,  and  the  challenges  posed  by 
climate change, which disproportionately hurt the poor, 
are changing the context we all operate in. 

We need to ensure that we are having a discussion 
for  today’s  and  tomorrow’s  reality,  not  yesterday’s. 
Meeting  the  MDGs  must  remain  the  international 
priority, 
ever-changing 
circumstances, and not just because it is fashionable at 
the moment. 

This  concern  is  compounded  by  the  fact  that  the 
debate  on  the  MDG  agenda  has,  at  times,  been 
dominated  by  a  few  voices,  primarily  from 
the 
developed  nations  and  affiliated  non-governmental 
organizations.  Despite  their  good  intentions,  their 
perspective  is  often  predicated  on  paternalism,  not 
partnership,  on  charity,  not  self-reliance,  and  on 
promises  unfulfilled  rather  than  real  change  on  the 
ground. 

We, in the developing world, also could do more. 
We need to reflect deeply on how we have driven this 
agenda  so  far,  and  why  we  are  lagging  behind  in 
achieving  the  targets.  We  can  no  longer  rely  on  the 
goodwill  of  other  nations  —  we  neither  need  to,  nor 
should  want  to.  We  must  assume  effective  leadership, 
take  full  ownership  of 
the  development  of  our 
countries and truly deliver for our citizens. 
notwithstanding 
our 
4 

10-54304 
We  need 
to  continue 



to  promote  greater 
empowerment  and  health  for  our  women  and  girls  so 
that  they  change  the  context  in  which  they  live  and 
grow  more  deeply  involved  in  poverty  alleviation 
programmes. 

We  should  also  embrace  the  transformational 
power of technology and in particular give our people 
increased access to broadband, which has the capacity 
to enhance their social and economic development. We 
can  do  this,  and  much  more,  if  there  is  more  regional 
cooperation.  That  is  why  I  wish  to  encourage  greater 
South-to-South  dialogue  and  economic  cooperation. 
The  agencies  mandated  to  foster  development  in  our 
regions need to work together more and more, not only 
to  share  best  practices,  but,  crucially,  to  empower  the 
nation  States  of  the  South  so  that  our  vision  and 
energies may deliver the MDGs. 

The  lessons  of  the  last  10  years  have  shown  us 
that  even  when  the  resources  are  available  and  action 
plans  are  adopted,  progress  has  sadly  been  too  slow. 
We must foster new working relationships, and adhere 
to  values  that  are  informed  by  homegrown  priorities 
and owned by local leaders; that empower our citizens 
and enable communities to work productively; and that 
balance  our  history  and  cultural  heritage  with 
innovation  and  social  progress.  These  values  must  be 
embedded in the political and economic culture of our 
the 
countries,  of 
regional 
development banks and bilateral relationships. 

Let me conclude by reiterating my belief that the 
MDGs  are  attainable.  We  have  ample  evidence  that 
where Governments own their development, where real 
partnerships  between  supporters  and  supported  occur, 
and where the agenda is designed and executed by the 
people  for  whom  it  is  intended,  tangible  results  are 
obtained and livelihoods are improved. But, at the end 
of  the  day,  we  shall  only  achieve  the  MDGs  if  we 
ensure that our values are consistent with the promises 
we  made  and  reaffirm  them  during  this  important 
Summit. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Deiss)  (spoke  in  French): 

The General Assembly will now hear an address by His 
Excellency Sheikh Sharik Sheikh Ahmed, President of 
the Transitional Federal Government of the Republic of 
Somalia. 
to 

congratulate  the  President  on  his  assumption  of  the 
presidency  at  the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  United 
President  Ahmed:  First, 
the  United  Nations, 
I  would 
like 
A/65/PV.6
Nations General Assembly, and, through the President, 
to  express  sincere  thanks  to  the  Secretary-General  for 
organizing this High-level event on the implementation 
of the Millennium Declaration (resolution 55/2) of the 
Summit of 2000. Here I would like to stress that when 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  were 
launched, Somalia was in a civil war; and, eventually, 
that  civil  war  developed  into  something  even  worse. 
Now, 
the  Somali  Government  and  people  are 
witnessing  a  conflict  unique  in  the  world,  where  a 
group  of  terrorists  is  not  only  hindering  peace  in 
Somalia but also preventing Somalia from participating 
in these Millennium Development Goals. It is therefore 
the  position  of  the  Somali  Government  that  we  need 
this august Assembly, and the international community 
in  general,  to  really  help  Somalia  to  overcome  the 
difficult situation Somalia finds itself in, and to free it 
from  the  troublesome  terrorist  organization  that  is 
holding it back. 
As  the  Assembly  knows,  Somalia  has  very 

promising  potential  in  terms  of  development,  but  first 
we  must  get  rid  of  these  groups  that  want  to  keep  the 
country in a state of war, violence and isolation. Then 
Somalia can be a part of the Millennium Development 
Goals,  and  I  believe  that  with  the  efforts  of  the 
entrepreneurial Somali people and the determination of 
the Transitional  Federal  Government  we  will  catch  up 
with 
international 
community. I would therefore request that the friendly 
nations  of  the  world  help  us  to  truly  defeat  this 
manifestation  of  terrorism,  which  not  only  affects 
Somalia but also the region to which it belongs, as well 
as the  entire  world — because,  as we know, terrorism 
has no borders. What we are therefore struggling to do 
is to stop this phenomenon in Somalia, with the help of 
the international community, so that a peaceful Somalia 
will  be  able 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The General Assembly will now hear an address by the 
President  of  the  Dominican  Republic,  Mr.  Leonel 
Fernández Reyna. 
President Fernández Reyna (spoke in Spanish): 

On  behalf  of  the  Government  and  people  of  the 
Dominican  Republic,  we  extend  our  greetings  to  the 
members  of  this  United  Nations  Summit  on  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  on 
the 
occasion  of  the  10-year  anniversary  of  their  official 
proclamation. These goals were eagerly taken on by the 
the  other  members  of 
to  participate 
the 
in 
10-54304 

5 
increased 
A/65/PV.6 

Dominican  Republic  and  other  nations  around  the 
world  because  they  provided  clear  guidelines  and 
deadlines  with  respect  to  ways  for  reducing  poverty, 
promoting  education  and  health,  fostering  gender 
equality and guaranteeing sustainable development.  

In  the  specific  case  of  the  Dominican  Republic, 
since the early 1990s, which is the reference date taken 
to  establish  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  our 
population  grew  by  35  per  cent,  from  7.2  million 
people  in  1990  to  9.7  million  people  today. The  gross 
domestic  product 
from  approximately 
$22 billion to $53 billion, which is the same as saying 
that,  during  that  period,  the  Dominican  Republic’s 
economy expanded more than two and a half times. To 
put  it  in  economic  terms,  in  2009,  the  Dominican 
Republic was two and a half times bigger than in 1990.  

During the same period, the Dominican Republic 
had one of the best performances in terms of growth of 
gross  domestic  product  in  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean, with an annual growth rate of an average of 
six per cent.  

Despite  these  substantial  growth  rates,  however, 
it is unlikely that the Dominican Republic will achieve 
a 50 per cent reduction of  its poverty  rates during the 
next five years in order to reach the goal set for 2015. 
There are several reasons that explain the difficulty in 
achieving this objective.  
First,  a  domestic  financial  crisis  took  place  in 

2003 
institutions  were 
seriously  affected. As  a  consequence  of  this  domestic 
financial crisis, the economy declined by 0.3 per cent, 
our currency was devalued by more than 100 per cent, 
inflation 
the 
unemployment rate rose from 13 to 19 per cent.  

In  that  context,  poverty  ended  up  increasing 
instead of decreasing, and it was not until 2005 that our 
national  economy  began  to  regain  its  dynamism  and 
social indicators also started to improve. From 2005 to 
the present day, extreme poverty decreased by 5.5 per 
cent and overall poverty declined by nine points.  

However, while we were trying very hard indeed 
to  overcome  the  domestic  financial  crisis,  we  were 
seriously  affected  by  the  oil  and  food  crises.  The 
increased  cost  of  oil  and  a  subsidy  established  to 
prevent increases in food prices diverted resources that 
would normally have been available to accomplish the 
Millennium Development Goals.  
in  which  many  banking 
to  worrisome 
rocketed 
levels  and 

limited 

The third factor that had a negative effect on the 
possibility of achieving the MDGs was, of course, the 
global  financial  and  economic  crisis,  which  began  at 
the end of 2007 and which is still present and has led to 
the slow, fragile growth of the global economy. 

Finally,  the  frequency  and  intensity  of  natural 
disasters stemming from global warming have also left 
their  mark  and 
the  resources  originally 
provided  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. 
Thus, as we can see, it is not for lack of political 

will  or  lack  of  planning  and  accountability  that  the 
Dominican Republic will be prevented from achieving 
some  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  by  2015 
as  planned.  Instead,  that  is  the  result  of  unforeseen 
circumstances,  both  nationally  and 
internationally, 
which have become obstacles on the country’s path to 
achieving  the  desired  goals,  which  means,  therefore, 
that  we  need  to  double  our  efforts  and  design  new 
strategies  for  sustainable  development  and  growth,  as 
we are doing in the Dominican Republic towards 2030 
in  order  to  generate  well-being  and  prosperity  for  our 
population. 

However, we should not lose sight of the fact that 
the future holds daunting challenges when it comes to 
reducing  poverty  in  the  world,  derived  from  the 
increasingly visible phenomenon of interdependence in 
the global economy as well as the speculative nature of 
many  financial  and  commercial 
transactions.  We 
reaffirm  our  national  commitment  to  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  we  harbour  the  hope  that  the 
United Nations system will continue to play a dynamic 
and active leadership role in the design of a new global 
financial  and  economic  order  that  is  fairer,  more 
equitable, more based on solidarity and more in favour 
of the world’s poor. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The General Assembly will now hear an address by His 
Excellency  Mr. Ali  Bongo  Ondimba,  President  of  the 
Republic of Gabon. 
Mr. Bongo Ondimba (Gabon) (spoke in French): 

At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  welcome  this  meeting 
which  is  part  and  parcel  of  the  extension  of  the  2005 
World  Summit  at  the  end  of  which  we  reaffirmed  our 
full  commitment 
the  Millennium  Declaration 
(General Assembly resolution 55/2), the foundations of 
a more peaceful, more prosperous and fairer world (see 
General Assembly resolution 60/1). 
to 
6 

10-54304 



We  are  gathered  here  today,  five  years  later,  to 
again  take  stock  of  our  actions  in  favour  of  achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  Despite 
genuine progress noted in the implementation of these 
Goals,  the  deadline  of  2015  remains  for  a  great  many 
countries,  including  Gabon,  a  very  difficult  challenge 
to  meet  in  an  unfavourable  international  financial  and 
economic environment.  

I  would  like  to  speak  about  my  country  with  a 
sense  of  humility  and  realism  with  regard  to  the 
numerous  obstacles  that  we  must  overcome  to  the 
MDGs. That does not in any way have any bearing on 
our desire to accelerate our development by relying on 
our potential. From the very outset, we have been in a 
position to strengthen and perpetuate what we consider 
to be the principal basis of development, that is, peace 
and stability. Since our accession to independence, this 
asset has always been a distinguishing characteristic of 
our country in a region that has been marked by crises 
and  recurrent  conflict.  This  climate  of  peace  and 
stability  enabled  us  to  achieve  progress  in  the  fight 
against extreme poverty and in favour of education, the 
promotion of women, the fight against HIV/AIDS and 
other diseases, maternal health and the preservation of 
the environment.  
As  far  as  the  reduction  of  extreme  poverty  is 

concerned,  we  have  already 
taken  a  number  of 
important  steps  aimed  at  preserving  the  purchasing 
income  and 
power  of  households  by 
improving  social  protection.  We  are  referring 
to 
increasing 
transport  subsidies  and  back-to-school 
benefits  and  raising  the  monthly  minimum  wage  to 
$320  and  the  adoption  of  a  law  aimed  at  setting  up  a 
for  economically  weak 
family  benefits 
Gabonese  households. 
these  vulnerable 
individuals  now  enjoy  pensions  paid  by  the  national 
social  security  and  health  insurance  which  enables 
them to seek low-cost treatment in accredited hospitals. 
To  these  measures  we  must  add  the  adoption  of  a 
national programme on food security, which includes a 
nutrition  plan  aimed  at  relaunching  the  agricultural, 
livestock and fisheries sectors.  
to  education,  we  have  made 

the 
substantial 
national  education  budget,  which  has  increased  from 
about $130 million in 2004 to about $204 million this 
year. The  State  also  established  a  mechanism  to  assist 
young people throughout their primary, secondary and 
higher  education  studies.  Gabon’s  primary  school 
investments,  as  demonstrated  by 
With  respect 
increasing 
Indeed, 
regime 
A/65/PV.6
the 
responsibility 
as  positions  of 
enrolment  rate  is  among  the  highest  in  sub-Saharan 
Africa,  at  close  to  96  per  cent  today,  and  almost  with 
gender  parity.  The  literacy  rate  among  the  people  of 
Gabon is over 85 per cent.  

We have also made progress in promoting gender 
equality  and  empowering  women.  Indeed,  in  addition 
to  creation  of  a  ministry  tasked  with  supporting 
women, a number of steps have been taken to promote 
the  gender  issue.  Today  more  and  more  women  gain 
access  to  health  care,  education  and  microcredit,  as 
well 
in  public 
administration,  the  army  and  other  decision-making 
bodies. One of the most tangible examples of this trend 
was  seen  during  the  last  political  transition  in  my 
country,  during  which  two  remarkable  women  played 
outstanding roles — one as head of State and the other 
as President of the Constitutional Court. 

In the field of health care, we have continued our 
efforts  to  fight  HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  other  diseases 
with the assistance of our partners, including the World 
Joint  United  Nations 
Health  Organization, 
Programme  on  HIV/AIDS, 
the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme  and  the  United  Nations 
Population  Fund.  Today  the  number  of  patients  with 
access  to  antiretroviral  therapies  has  increased.  We 
have  increased  the  number  of  campaigns  to  raise 
prevention awareness throughout our national territory 
through  a  partnership  that  we  were  able  to  establish 
with  civil  society  actors,  United  Nations  agencies  and 
the  private  sector.  These  efforts  have  contributed 
significantly 
to 
improving  the  conditions  for  caring  for  those  who  are 
ill. 

With  respect  to  reducing  infant  mortality  and 
improving  maternal  health,  we  have  drawn  up  a 
national  road  map  whose  main  benchmarks  are 
contained in the text of the new national health policy, 
recently  updated  and  now  being  adopted  by  the 
Government. These new steps  align with prior actions 
undertaken  by  the  Government  within  the  framework 
to implement the national morbidity reduction strategy 
and to reduce neonatal maternal death. 

Reducing infant and maternal mortality is vital to 
the  development  of  African  countries.  Here  I  would 
like  to  echo  the  appeal  launched  by  Africa  at  the 
Kampala summit, which was that no woman should die 
in  giving  life.  The  Global  Strategy  for  Women’s  and 
Children’s  Health  to  be  launched  tomorrow  by  the 
to  reducing  new 
infections  and 
10-54304 

7 

to 
resources, 
strengthen  health 
A/65/PV.6 

Secretary-General,  and  to  which  my  country  fully 
adheres, is a praiseworthy initiative. We are convinced 
that  implementation  of  this  strategy  will  enable  us  to 
mobilize 
care 
arrangements  for  women  and  children  and  to  fight 
unequal access to care.  

With  respect  to  preserving  the  environment, 
Gabon has reserved 11 per cent of its territory for the 
creation  of  national  parks  as  a  contribution  to  global 
efforts  in  the  area  of  the  environment  and  to  fight 
global warming. Since my accession to the presidency, 
I  have  committed  myself,  through  the  Green  Gabon 
programme,  to  promote  the  green  gold  of  Gabon  by 
mechanizing  the  timber  sector  and  conserving  the 
ecological riches of our huge equatorial forest that is so 
necessary  for  our  development.  I  have  taken  steps  to 
strengthen protection of national parks to ensure, inter 
alia, greater protection of our exceptional biodiversity, 
and  I  have  launched  a  broad  campaign  against  the 
illegal extraction of national resources, which today is 
very successful.  

I  have  also  taken  a  number  of  other  significant 
steps  aimed  at  reducing  our  carbon  dioxide  emissions 
and increasing the level of carbon sequestration in our 
forests. 
that  Gabon  enjoys 
environmental  stability,  and  that  has  been  confirmed 
over time. As long as we preserve our forests, we will 
be  more  or  less  assured  of  minimizing  the  impact  of 
climate change in our country. 

However, today we are living in a global village 
where  challenges  have  become  transnational.  Faced 
with these challenges, we must pool our efforts to carry 
out  a  collective  struggle.  Gabon  is  part  of  our  global 
village,  and  as  part  of  this  village  it  is  firmly 
committed, with the United Nations and other Member 
States,  in  the  fight  the  world  is  conducting  today 
against climate change. 

The impact of the international financial crisis on 
public investment to support basic social needs such as 
education,  health  care,  access  to  drinking  water  and 
electricity  has  constrained  our  endeavours  to  improve 
human  development.  Aware  of  those  difficulties,  I 
have, since my accession to the presidency, committed 
to  building  a  new  Gabon  based  on  the  pillars  of  a 
diversified  economy,  good  governance,  promotion  of 
human  capital  and  major  construction.  The  goal  is  to 
put  the  country  to  work  and  to  ensure  rapid  and 
sustainable economic growth whose fruit will enable us 
is  well  known 
It 
implementing 
the  commitments  made 
a  genuine  global  partnership 
to  better  distribute  the  revenue.  The  three  pillars  — 
payment,  development,  sharing  —  that  underlie  my 
social agenda illustrate well the new programme that I 
plan  to  implement  to  improve  our  people’s  well-being 
and add Gabon to the list of emerging countries. 

Our efforts on development will be effective only 
if accompanied by mobilization of sufficient resources 
and a large increase in direct investments. To that end, 
my  country  encourages  current  efforts  aimed  at 
institutionalizing innovative financing mechanisms for 
development.  To 
that  end,  an  effective  global 
partnership  for  development  will  prove  indispensable 
to ensure sustained economic growth in our countries.  

I  cherish  the  hope  that  the  Outcome  Document 
that  will  crown  our  work  (A/65/L.1)  recognizes  the 
crucial  nature  of  resource  mobilization  in  accelerating 
the  process  of 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  I  view  this  Meeting  as  a  new 
opportunity  to  send  a  strong  sign  to  humanity,  one 
commensurate  with 
in 
Monterrey,  Doha,  Gleneagles,  Paris  and  Accra  in 
favour  of 
for 
development. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Lieutenant-General  Salou  Djibo,  President 
of the Supreme Council for Restoration of Democracy, 
Chief  of  State  and  President  of  the  Council  of 
Ministers of the Republic of the Niger. 
President Djibo (spoke in French): Allow me at 

the  outset  to  associate  my  voice  with  those  have 
spoken  before  me  from  this  rostrum  to  extend  to  the 
President  my  warm 
congratulations  upon  his 
outstanding election to preside over our work. It gives 
me all the more pleasure as I am firmly convinced that 
his  broad  experience  will  ensure  that  our  work  will 
lead to both concrete and realistic results. 
the  Millennium  Declaration  of  2000 

community 
(resolution  55/2), 
committed 
the  Millennium 
itself 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  by  2015.  Those  Goals, 
which  enumerate  a  set  of  quantifiable  targets,  aim  at 
reducing  extreme  poverty  and  eradicating  hunger, 
while  also  imposing  the  obligation  to  promote  quality 
education,  create  jobs,  improve  health  and  sanitation 
policy,  fight  environmental  degradation  and  give 
special  attention  to  the  promotion  of  women  and 
children.  
to  achieving 
international 
the 
In 
8 

10-54304 
in 
indeed 
reasons 
for 
significant 
the  precarious  situations  and 



However,  10  years  later  —  as  is  apparent  from 
the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/64/665)  —  the 
results  of  the  implementation  of  steps  to  achieve  the 
MDGs remain mixed. 

As far as Niger is concerned, everything currently 
seems  to  point  to  the  fact  that  it  is  most  unlikely  that 
my  country  will  achieve  the  MDGs  by  2015.  I  see  at 
this.  First,  despite 
least 
their 
two 
admittedly 
efforts,  our  development 
partners  were  not  able  to  meet  commitments  made, 
notably 
the  matter  of  official  development 
assistance. Secondly, the heavy impact of the vagaries 
of the climate on the national economy, the insufficient 
economic  growth  and  the  rise  in  population  lead  to 
perennial  food  insecurity  and  a  failure  to  meet  basic 
social needs.  

This situation, far from being temporary, reflects 
the extreme precariousness of our system of production 
and 
living 
conditions  of  our  people.  Furthermore,  the  global 
economic,  energy  and  food  crises  of  2008  and  2009 
have had a heavy impact on our operational capacities. 
Faced with that situation, Niger has launched economic 
and  public  finance  reforms  in  the  framework  of 
developing budget programmes tailored to the MDGs. 
In  turn,  the  United  Nations  system,  under  the 

leadership  of 
the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme,  has  already  launched  two  pilot  initiatives 
aimed  at  accelerating  progress  in  achieving  MDGs.  I 
refer 
the  MDG  Acceleration 
Framework —  the  MAF  —  and  the  initiative  for 
promoting  local  ownership  of  MDGs.  I  therefore  urge 
the  international  community  to  more  effectively  assist 
the implementation of those initiatives for the good of 
the people of Niger. Allow me here to state that Niger 
was  selected  as  a  pilot  country  for  the  MDG  local 
ownership  initiative;  however,  it  is  not  yet  one  of  the 
countries selected for the MAF. 

Following  the  food  crises  of  2005  and  2010, 
which  affected  nearly  50  per  cent  of  the  population, 
and 
impacts  of  climate  change  — 
especially  the  advancing  desert  and  torrential  rainfall, 
which make agricultural production unpredictable in a 
country where more than 80 per cent of the population 
rely on agriculture — this gathering here affords Niger 
an  occasion  propitious  to  the  establishment,  with  our 
partners,  of  a  new  social  and  economic  partnership 
that, I hope, will fulfil its promise.  
the  harmful 
specifically 
to 
A/65/PV.6
to 
to  2015 
this  assessment, 
the  period  from  2011 

A  strategy  for  accelerated  development  and 
poverty reduction was adopted in 2007. Its main axis is 
the  development  of  the  productive  sector,  will  enable 
us to lay the foundations for sustainable development, 
which  will  no  doubt  contribute  to  accelerating  our 
move  towards  achieving  the  MDGs.  Priority  steps, 
defined in the framework of assessing needs and costs 
of  the  MDGs,  address  agriculture  and  food  security, 
education  and  training,  gender  equality,  health,  water 
and sanitation, natural resource management, roads and 
transport,  social  protection  and  improved  access  to 
energy.  
In Niger, the overall cost of achieving key MDG 

targets  over 
is 
approximately  $21  billion.  The  contribution  of  the 
State  of  Niger,  according 
is 
estimated at $5 billion, representing an average annual 
participation of $1 billion. To mobilize those resources 
we  have  at  the  national  level  developed  a  strategy  for 
the  mobilization  of 
internal  resources  based  on 
improving  the  level  of  taxation  through  an  expansion 
of  the  tax  base,  strengthening  financial  regulation  and 
more  rigorous 
tax  collection.  Public  expenditure 
reforms  underway  also  stand  to  release  potential 
resources.  Likewise,  additional  resources  are  expected 
from mining and oil exploitation planned from 2011.  

For  its  part,  the  international  community  must 
continue  its  efforts  to  assist  Niger,  with  technical  and 
financial participation on the order of $16 billion over 
the  period  in  question.  What  we  need  is  rapid  and 
substantial  financial  support,  which  will  enable  us  to 
profoundly  transform  the  structure  of  our  economy 
with  a  view  to  creating  a  diversified  production  base, 
more  capable  of  incorporating  our  country  into  the 
global economy.  

For our part, we commit to attending to a number 
of issues. These include budgetary increases in priority 
sectors,  notably  health,  education  and  agriculture,  in 
keeping with the Abuja Declaration of 2000, as well as 
access to and availability of quality reproductive health 
services,  products  and  advice, 
including  about 
HIV/AIDS,  to  all  women  of  childbearing  age.  We 
commit also to containing population growth, fighting 
violence  against  women,  restoring  and  enforcing  the 
rule of law, and to individual liberties and freedom of 
expression.  We 
good 
governance,  the  culture  of  peace  and  the  fight  against 
terrorism.  All  of  these  goals  also  represent  necessary 
conditions  for  all  social  and  economic  development 
democracy, 
commit 
to 
10-54304 

9 

A/65/PV.6 

and therefore for the achievement of the MDGs and the 
fulfillment of our people. 

These values are so important to us in Niger that 
the  draft  constitution  to  be  submitted  for  the  approval 
of  the  people  of  Niger  this  31  October  enshrines  the 
protection  of  the  health  of  women  and  children,  the 
fight  against  all  violence  directed  at  women  and  the 
implementation  of 
the  national  declaration  on 
population policy. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency Mr. Paul Biya, President of the Republic of 
Cameroon. 
President  Biya  (spoke  in  French):  Since  the 

the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
adoption  of 
(MDGs)  10  years  ago,  an  assessment  of  the  ground 
covered  shows  that  although  significant  results  have 
been obtained, the achievement of all the MDGs by the 
year  2015  remains  uncertain.  The  United  Nations  and 
the  African  Union  note  that  while  Africa,  to  mention 
only  that  continent,  has  made  remarkable  progress 
towards  achieving  the  MDGs,  the  pace  and  even  the 
quality of the results obtained have not given cause for 
optimism but at best only for cautious satisfaction.  

I  wish  to  pay  tribute  to  our  Secretary-General, 
Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  the  insight  afforded  by  the 
reports  published  by  the  Organization  in  preparation 
for our work. I also avail myself of this opportunity to 
hail  the  common  African  position,  which  should 
remind us all that Africa is only the continent that may 
not achieve the MDGs by the agreed-upon date. 

The merit of our gathering today is that it affords 
the representatives of the States Members of the United 
Nations  the  opportunity  to  reaffirm  their  commitment 
to accelerating the achievement of the MDGs by 2015. 

My  vision  of  the  MDGs  is  based  today  on  three 
aspects that I consider essential for their achievement: 
the  attainment  of  Goal  8,  which  concerns 
the 
implementation of a global partnership for development; 
access to energy; and job creation. 

the  MDGs,  no 
matter how pertinent, should not make us lose sight of 
the  fact 
the 
achievement of all the others depends, and that is Goal 
8.  Indeed, 
to  mobilize  resources  for 
development  depend  on  establishing  a  more  equitable 
dealing 
economic 
The  complementarity  among 
is  one  Goal  on  which 
the  efforts 
financial 
system, 
there 
that 
and 
on 
comprehensively  with  the  debt  problem,  on  providing 
official  development  assistance  that  is  consistent, 
predictable  and  effective,  on  access 
to  essential 
medicines  and  on  reducing  the  digital  divide.  If 
together  we  succeed  in  rising  to  these  challenges, 
which  are the targets of Goal 8, I  am sure that  all the 
others will stand a chance of being achieved. 

The second factor that I believe indispensable for 
the  achievement  of  the  MDGs  is  access  to  energy. 
There  is  no  doubt  today  that  energy  resources  have  a 
multiplier  effect  on  the  achievement  of  the  Goals 
relating to poverty reduction, education, health, gender 
and the environment.  

Energy  resources  facilitate  not  only  increased 
agricultural  production  but  also  water  supply  and  the 
development  of  income-generating  activities  for  the 
poorest segments of the population, especially women. 
Experience further shows that access to energy favours 
the  institution  of  quality  education,  while  facilitating 
the  spread  of  new  communications  technologies.  It  is 
also worth recalling that energy has a role in boosting 
girls’  access  to  education  by  reducing  their  household 
chores. 
The benefits of access to energy are also seen in 

maternal  and  child  health, 
improved 
monitoring  of  pregnancies  and  of  conditions  for 
deliveries,  as  well  as  improved  storage  methods  for 
vaccines  and  medicines.  Furthermore,  using  modern 
sources  of  energy  directly  impacts  not  only  the  health 
of women who no longer have to inhale smoke and gas 
from  biomass,  but  also 
the 
environment, since it helps to check forest destruction 
and the encroachment of deserts. 
Lastly,  we  cannot  reasonably  expect  to  achieve 

the  challenge  of 
the  MDGs  without  addressing 
employment. 
ever  before, 
employment  is  a  determining  factor  in  alleviating 
poverty and fostering personal dignity and in collective 
well-being, 
and, 
unquestionably, political stability. Hence achieving the 
MDGs  will  necessarily  hinge  on 
the 
employment  crisis,  in  particular  the  issue  of  youth 
employment, since young people represent not just the 
bulk  of  our  population  but  also  the  future  of  our 
countries.  

In order to factor in the three elements that I have 
just  presented,  and  conscious  of  its  responsibilities 
towards  its  people,  the  Government  of  Cameroon  has 
the  preservation  of 
Indeed,  more 
sustainable 
economic 
resolving 
growth 
thanks 
than 
to 
10 

10-54304 
A/65/PV.6

foreign  direct 
investments,  and 


prepared and is gradually implementing its growth and 
employment  strategy  paper.  That  document 
is  a 
blueprint centred on developing productive sectors and 
infrastructure,  without  which  improving  the  living 
conditions of our people is unthinkable. 

In  this  light,  the  Government  has  established, 
inter  alia,  a  programme  to  develop  the  energy  sector. 
This  programme  provides  for  upgrading  existing 
infrastructure  and  building  new  hydroelectric  dams  to 
meet  industrial  and  household  needs.  Through  this 
programme,  Cameroon  should  be  able  to  double  its 
production  of  electric  energy  by  2015  and  triple  it  by 
2020,  while  giving  pride  of  place  to  the  growth  of 
renewable energies. 

Other  actions  in  the  same  vein  are  under  way, 
including the adoption of Cameroon’s vision for long-
term development by 2035, aimed at making Cameroon 
an  emerging  country,  pursuing  fiscal  reform  that 
includes incentives and improving the business climate 
with a view to further mobilizing domestic savings and 
attracting 
lastly, 
increasing our capacity to absorb foreign aid. 
To conclude, Cameroon wishes to affirm its faith 

in  a  united  and  indivisible  human  community  able  to 
act  in  unison  in  what  in  the  final  analysis  is  a  global 
idea, namely, the well-being and the fulfilment of all of 
its members.  
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The General Assembly will now hear an address by His 
Excellency  Mr.  Meles  Zenawi,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia. 
Mr.  Zenawi  (Ethiopia):  I  wish  at  the  outset  to 

express  my  appreciation  to  you,  Mr.  Treki,  outgoing 
President of the General Assembly, for the good work 
he has done and to assure the incoming President of the 
Assembly, Mr. Joseph Deiss, of my country’s readiness 
to contribute to making his term of office a success. It 
is  with  great  pleasure  that  I  pay  tribute  to  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon,  among  other 
for 
convening  this  historic  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  of 
the General Assembly. 

The Secretary-General could not have been more 
to  the  point  when  he  said  in  his  report  that  “the 
Millennium  Declaration  represents  the  most  important 
collective  promise  ever  made  to  the  world’s  most 
vulnerable  people”  (A/64/665,  para.  5),  then  adding 
that  
things 
“This promise is not based on pity or charity, but 
on  solidarity,  justice  and  the  recognition  that  we 
are increasingly dependent on one another for our 
shared prosperity and security”. (Ibid.) 

Only  five  years  away  from  the  target  date  of 
2015,  it  is  not  clear  that  we  have  enough  justification 
for a sense of accomplishment with respect to that most 
important collective promise. No doubt, there has been 
some progress and some parts of the world are on track 
to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  In 
Africa too, although progress has been uneven and has 
been negatively affected by the current economic crisis 
and  unusual  levels  of  climate  variability,  a  number  of 
countries are on a promising trajectory to achieve most 
if  not  all  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  But 
the  overall  picture  in  the  continent  in  terms  of 
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  is  far 
from reassuring. 

It is therefore clear that we need to do more and 
better  than  we  have  so  far  if  we  are  to  make  up  for 
opportunities lost over the years. There is no doubt in 
my  mind  that  we  in  the  developing  world  have  to  do 
more and better to take charge of our destiny, to design 
programmes 
to  our 
circumstances and to mobilize our own resources as the 
primary  means  of 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals.  

I know that this is easier said than implemented, 
all the more so because much of the external assistance 
we  get  has  in  practice  been  predicated  on  our  towing 
the  line  of  the  donor  community  rather  than  charting 
our  own  independent  course  of  action.  The  fact 
remains,  however,  that  there  is  no  possibility  of  us 
keeping our promise to our people unless we do more 
and better to take charge of our destiny and unless we 
depend on our own resources as the primary means of 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals. 

It  must  be  clear,  however,  that  as  much  as  those 
that  are  vulnerable  assume  full  responsibility  for  their 
development 
resource 
mobilization,  there  are  nonetheless  structural  realities 
that  make  it  unavoidable  for  them  to  rely  partly  on 
international 
in 
development,  including  in  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  This  is  obviously  the  rationale 
behind the Goals. It was clearly understood right from 
the  outset  that  progress  towards  achieving  the  Goals, 
and  maximize 
appropriate 
to  make 
and 
strategies 
achieving 
domestic 
solidarity 
progress 
10-54304 

11 

A/65/PV.6 

particularly by the most vulnerable, hinges on effective 
international solidarity and support. 

Our partners in development need to do more and 
better  to  deliver  on  their  promises  to  provide  quality 
support  for  development  and  for  achieving  the  Goals, 
as  they  have  clearly  been  off  track  in  delivering  on 
their  promises,  in  terms  of  both  the  quantity  and  the 
quality of the support they promised. They need to go 
beyond  empty  words  and  put  their  money  where  their 
mouth  is  if  we  are  to  have  a  realistic  chance  of 
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  by  the 
target date. 

It  is  for  all  those  reasons  that  this  High-level 
Plenary  Meeting  of  the  General Assembly  is  so  vital. 
This forum should result in a new pact with respect to a 
renewed  commitment  to  ensure  that  the  collective 
promises made at the dawn of the new millennium are 
kept. What we need are action-oriented recommendations 
designed to ensure accountability for commitments and 
promises  made.  The  coming  five  years  ought  to  be 
used  in  such  a  way  as  to  make  up  for  some  of  the 
opportunities lost over the past decade. 
We in Ethiopia have made substantial progress on 

all 
the  Millennium 
fronts 
Development Goals. We have taken full charge of our 
destiny,  devised  our  own  strategy  and  maximized  the 
mobilization  of  our  domestic  resources  to  achieve  the 
Millennium Development Goals. We made the best use 
of  the  limited  available  international  assistance  to 
supplement our own efforts. We made sure that all our 
development  plans  were  consistent  with  achieving  all 
the Goals. 

The  results  so  far  have  been  very  encouraging. 
Over the past seven years, the Ethiopian economy has 
performed  well,  having  achieved  an  11.6  per  cent 
annual  average  growth  rate.  The  robust  economic 
growth  we  have  achieved  has  created  the  basis  for 
similarly  robust  growth  in  social  indicators  and  hence 
on progress in achieving the Millennium Development 
Goals. 

We  have  now  developed  our  plans  for  the  next 
five  years,  which  are  based  on  the  progress  we  have 
made so far and are intended to help us achieve all the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  by  the  target  date  of 
2015. We are keenly aware that our goals are ambitious 
and  that  they  may  not  be  achieved  without  significant 
external assistance. But we are determined to do what 
to 
we  can  on  our  own,  while  seeking  support 
achieving 
towards 
supplement  our  own  efforts.  The  achievements  of  the 
past  seven  years  give  us  the  confidence  to  move 
forward,  with  a  realistic  chance  of  achieving  all  the 
Millennium Development Goals in time. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The General Assembly will now hear an address by His 
Excellency  Mr.  Pakalitha  Bethuel  Mosisili,  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  Defence  and  Public  Service 
of the Kingdom of Lesotho. 
Mr.  Mosisili  (Lesotho):  Only  five  years  remain 

before  the  target  date  of  2015  that  we  set  for  the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs).  Those  Goals  were  and  still  are  noble  and 
lofty  ideals  and  aspirations.  We  believe  that  in  the 
remaining time, the eight development goals we set for 
ourselves can still be achieved. 

Looking back at the road we have travelled over 
the  past  10  years,  the  results  of  our  efforts  have  been 
mixed.  It  is  true  that  significant  progress  has  been 
made in opening up access to education, to clean water 
and  to  gender  parity.  But  the  war  against  poverty, 
hunger  and  disease  is  yet  to  be  won.  We  need  to  put 
more  effort 
that  will 
accelerate our progress towards meeting all the MDGs. 

The  developed  countries  must  live  up  to  the 
commitments  that  they  have  made  with  regard  to 
official  development  assistance.  Equally,  we,  as 
developing  countries,  must  do  our  part  by  devoting 
resources to the areas that are necessary for social and 
economic  growth.  More  resources  are  needed 
to 
infrastructure  and 
finance  education,  agriculture, 
health-related 
to 
acknowledge  those  development  partners  that  have 
extended a hand to help Lesotho meet its commitments 
in  these  critical  areas.  In  this  regard,  I  am  pleased  to 
mention  Japan,  the  Peoples  Republic  of  China,  the 
United States of America, the Republic of Ireland and 
the European Union member States, among others. 
Available data indicate that Lesotho is on track to 

meet  the  goal  of  universal  primary  education  because 
of  the  policies  that  we  introduced  for  free  and 
compulsory  education  at  that  level.  We  are  also  on 
course to achieve the targets set for the goals of gender 
equality and of access to safe drinking water and basic 
sanitation.  The  Lesotho  Government  has,  in  addition, 
put  in  place  legislative  and  physical  infrastructure  to 
ensure that these gains are sustained and not reversed. 
implementing  policies 
commitments. 
I  would 
into 
like 
12 

10-54304 



The  scourge  of  HIV  and AIDS  remains  a  major 
challenge  for  Lesotho.  HIV  infection  continues  to 
outstrip  the  expansion  of  treatment.  It  has  imposed 
immense pressure on our national resources in terms of 
loss  of  economically  active  manpower,  treatment  and 
care for the sick, and support for orphans. 

We have not been an exception to the status quo 
in Africa, where maternal and infant mortality rates are 
the highest in the world. It looks certain that we shall 
fall far short of the target for these goals. Our attempts 
at  making  high-impact 
interventions  have  been 
constrained by poverty and limited financial resources. 
It  is  clear,  however,  that  with  sufficient  political  will, 
the  right  policies  and  the  support  of  our  development 
partners, these trends can be reversed. 

The  Millennium  Development  Goals  are  all 
interrelated.  The  achievement  of  most  of  the  MDGs 
will  be  dependent  on  our  success  in  addressing  the 
health-related challenges that our countries face. It is in 
this  context  that,  at  the  African  Union  summit  in 
Kampala  in  July  this  year,  the African  heads  of  State 
and Government decided to significantly increase their 
investment  in  the  health  of  their  peoples  and  to  adopt 
policies  that  will  put  an  end  to  the  spectre  of  high 
maternal and infant mortality rates in Africa. 

Lesotho  hopes  that  the  recent  global  economic 
and  financial  crisis  that  affected  all  countries  will  not 
be  used  by  our  development  partners  as  an  excuse  to 
reduce  their  support  to  help  the  developing  countries 
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Like 
other  countries  of  the  world,  Lesotho  was  adversely 
affected by the crisis. The inflation rate reached double 
digits  for  the  first  time  in  years,  and  unemployment 
increased  from  23.6  to  29  per  cent.  This  is  just  an 
indication  of  the  enormity  and  severity  of  the  global 
crisis,  which  affected  all  sectors  of  the  economy.  It  is 
therefore  clear  that,  in  the  remaining  five  years,  we 
shall  have  to  dedicate  a  lot  of  resources,  both  human 
and financial, to scale up our efforts to cut by half the 
population living below the poverty line. 

It  is  indeed  important  to  note  that  Governments 
cannot  tackle  this  mammoth  task  single-handedly 
without  the  participation  of  the  private  sector. To  this 
end, Lesotho has created an enabling environment and 
Government  structures in  which the private sector has 
been made a  partner in the development efforts of the 
country. 
A/65/PV.6
they  made 
the  promises  which 

Climate  change  has  emerged  as  one  of  the  most 
serious  challenges  that  we  have  faced  in  Lesotho  in 
recent  times.  Like  all  developing  countries,  we  bear  a 
disproportionate  share  of  the  adverse  impacts  of 
climate change, even though we are not responsible for 
it. Household food security is under serious threat as a 
result  of  severe  droughts  and  unfavourable  weather 
conditions caused by global warming. This has affected 
the majority of our rural population that relies heavily 
on  subsistence  farming.  In  particular,  the  nutritional 
status of children and other vulnerable groups is often 
compromised. 
We appeal therefore to industrialized countries to 

deliver  on 
in 
Copenhagen  last  year  to  assist  developing  countries 
with  the  necessary  technology  and  resources  for 
adaptation to  and mitigation of the impacts of climate 
change. In our view, this will be an interim measure as 
we  work  towards  putting  together  a  binding  global 
agreement  for  reducing  global  warming,  which  we 
hope to have in Mexico at the end of this year. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  Her 
Excellency  Mrs.  Kamla  Persad-Bissessar,  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Trinidad and Tobago. 
Mrs.  Persad-Bissessar  (Trinidad  and Tobago):  I 

am very happy to bring greetings from the Government 
and  the  people  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago.  I  am  grateful 
for the opportunity for us to take stock of the progress 
and the pitfalls in our drive towards the achievement of 
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 

We  are  a  small  island  developing  State  of  twin 
islands.  We  have  attained  middle-income  country 
status.  We  are  fully  cognizant  of  the  fact  that  we 
remain  vulnerable  to  international  financial,  food  and 
energy  crises,  as  well  as  natural  disasters.  These 
vulnerabilities  are  not  unique  to Trinidad  and Tobago, 
but affect the Caribbean and a large percentage of the 
Commonwealth  States,  of  which  I  have  the  honour  to 
be the present Chair-in-office. 

With respect to poverty eradication, we recognize 
that  the  passport  out  of  poverty  is  through  education, 
community empowerment and social entrepreneurship. 
Consequently,  we  are  re-engineering  our  strategies  to 
achieve  those  MDGs  that  require  greater  efforts.  We 
have  put  decisive  measures 
in  place  for  strong 
capacity-building  and  for  partnerships  with  regional 
10-54304 

13 

In 
More 
the  area  of 
initiated  well 
in  advance  of 
than  a  decade  ago,  when  I  had 
A/65/PV.6 

and  global  agencies  to  achieve  equal  success  with  the 
other MDGs by 2015. 

Fellow leaders will be happy to learn that, within 
five  years,  every  secondary  school  student  in  my 
country  will  have  a  laptop  computer  in  his  or  her 
school bag, the first set of which is being delivered this 
year  for  all  students  entering  the  secondary  school 
system.  

the 
opportunity  to  serve  as  Minister  of  Education  of  our 
Government,  we  introduced  secondary  education  for 
all.  That  was 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goal  of  universal  primary 
education. Today,  I  am  proud  to  say  that  we  have  not 
only achieved the goal of primary school education for 
all, but surpassed it. We continue to increase access to 
education  and  provide  assistance  for  our  people  to 
become lifelong learners. 
tertiary  education,  UNICEF 

statistics  for  2009  reveal  that  46  per  cent  of  persons 
aged  between  17  and  21  are  enrolled  in  our  tertiary 
sector.  We  believe  that  that  percentage  increased  this 
year  because  we  saw  increased  enrolment  in  the 
tertiary sector just a couple of weeks ago. That was the 
result  of  a  programme  that  we  introduced,  known  as 
Dollar  for  Dollar,  which  was  subsequently  renamed 
Government  Assistance 
for  Tuition  Expenses, 
providing  full  Government  funding  of  students  in 
tertiary education. 

Notwithstanding our advances, we see the United 
Nations  and  other  multilateral  agencies,  including  the 
Commonwealth,  as  critical  partners  in  overcoming 
challenges  in  the  areas  of  the  other  MDGs.  We 
recognize  that  we  have  to  work  harder  in  order  to 
ensure  that  we  achieve  our  stated  goal  to  reduce 
poverty by 2 per cent per year.  

Some 16.7 per cent of our people still live below 
the  poverty  line;  11.7  per  cent  are  considered  the 
working  poor,  and  9  per  cent  are  deemed  vulnerable. 
With those groups in mind, as a new Government, we 
have established a new ministry — the Ministry of the 
People and Social Development — that is unique in our 
political  history  and  whose  aim  is  to  bring  the 
Government  closer to the  people in a delivery-centred 
manner  that  deepens  the  partnership  between  the 
Government and the people.  
In  order 
inability 
facilitates 
listen  before 
leading.  That 

to  support  our  goals  of  poverty 
alleviation and poverty reduction, 20.5 per cent of this 
year’s  budget  for  the  upcoming  fiscal  year  has  been 
allocated  to  the  delivery  of  social  services.  Only  last 
week,  in  our  budget  debate,  we  announced  that  the 
Government would raise the minimum wage from 9 to 
12.5 Trinidad and Tobago dollars per hour, bringing the 
minimum daily wage to 100.  

We  are committed to partnering  with the people. 
Too  many  of  our  poverty  reduction  programmes  fail 
because  of  an 
to  connect,  consult  and 
collaborate with those in need. Our leadership policy is 
to 
the 
empowerment of our people. As a consequence, issues 
such  as  gender  mainstreaming  have  not  escaped  our 
attention. 

We  are  very  concerned  about  the  equal  place  of 
women  and  girls  in  our  society.  At  the  tertiary  level, 
women  now  fill  more  than  60  per  cent  of  classroom 
space; 28 per cent of our parliamentarians are women; 
and  25  per  cent  of  local  Government  practitioners  are 
also women. At the University of the West Indies, there 
was a 51-per cent increase in the enrolment of women 
in tertiary  education between 2003 and  2009, whereas 
male enrolment increased by 32 per cent. That said, we 
are  very  concerned  about  the  growing  trend  of  the 
marginalization of male youths in Trinidad and Tobago. 

With  respect  to  health  issues,  our  concern  for 
human development is reflected in our commitment as 
a Government to the needs of our children. We believe 
that  children  are  our  future.  Since  my  Government 
assumed  office 
the 
Children’s  Life  Fund  to  provide  emergency  medical 
care  and  surgery 
those  medical 
procedures  that  cannot  be  accessed  in  Trinidad  and 
Tobago.  We  have  also  pledged  financial  assistance  to 
my  adopted  homeland,  Jamaica,  for  a  similar  fund 
there.  At  the  level  of  the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM), we have agreed in principle to initiate a 
pan-Caribbean Children’s Life Fund. In that regard, we 
would  welcome 
the  world  and 
international organizations such as UNICEF partnering 
with us in that noble initiative.  

The health and well-being of our people is a high 
priority for our Government. We will spare no effort in 
the  fight  against  infant  mortality  and  in  improving 
maternal  health,  as  evidenced  by  our  provision  in  this 
year’s budget for milk money for low-income mothers. 
in  May,  we  have 
to  children  for 
the  nations  of 
launched 
14 

10-54304 
for 
in  our 


Time will not permit me to elaborate on the numerous 
strategies  we  are  pursuing  to  ensure  the  well-being, 
protection and care of children. 

With  respect  to  health  and  HIV  and  AIDS,  we 
need  to  confront  the  realities.  However,  in  addition  to 
that, 
region  non-communicable  diseases, 
especially diabetes, hypertension and heart disease, are 
prevalent.  The  emergence  of  non-communicable 
diseases  as  a  major  threat  to  socio-economic  growth 
can  only  roll  back  the  progress  made  towards  the 
achievement  of  the  MDGs.  We  have  also  developed 
indicators for measuring and treating them. To that end, 
Trinidad and Tobago, in collaboration with CARICOM, 
successfully  spearheaded  resolution  64/265  calling  for 
a  high-level  meeting  on  non-communicable  diseases, 
which will take place next year. 
As  I  close,  I  want  to  indicate  that  we  share  the 

global  anxiety 
the  environment.  We  have 
established our own green fund, which will be used for 
reforestation, environmental conservation and preservation. 
Three  months  ago,  in  partnership  with  the  private 
sector 
and  non-governmental  organizations,  we 
launched  the  Clean  Up  and  Beautify  programme, 
involving  communities  throughout  the  nation  and 
aimed  at 
the 
environment. 

In conclusion, I say that there is only one goal for 
our  Government,  and  that  is  the  happiness  of  our 
people. There  are  many  things  that  divide  us  —  race, 
religion, old grudges and territorial disputes — but the 
one thing that should unite us in the world community 
is our resolve to be our neighbour’s keepers in the face 
of  natural  disasters  and  other  humanitarian  crises. We 
must cross all barriers, political or otherwise, to initiate 
a  unified  and  coordinated  global  response  wherever 
such challenges may occur. No nation should be left to 
stand alone.  

Trinidad  and  Tobago  will  continue  to  work  with 
the  United  Nations  and  other  entities  in  our  steadfast 
resolve to achieve all the MDGs. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Stephen  Harper,  Prime  Minister  of 
Canada. 
Mr.  Harper  (Canada)  (spoke  in  French):  We 

thank  the  Secretary-General  for  having  convened  this 
summit.  The  Millennium  Development  Goals  set 
sustainable  management  of 
the 
A/65/PV.6
benchmarks that enable us all to measure our collective 
progress  towards  building  a  better  future  for  those  on 
our  planet  most  in  need.  They  eloquently  express  our 
conviction  that  nations  must  work  together  for  the 
good of all. Written goals are a good start, but it is our 
actions that really matter. 
(spoke in English) 

As  we  speak  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals, it is critical that our words here today ultimately 
translate into simple realities, such as food on the table, 
improved  health  and  a  better  life  for  children  around 
the  world.  Together,  we  must  keep  our  promises  and 
work towards practical, durable solutions. 

At  this  summit,  our  discussions  should  be  less 
about  new  agreements  than  accountability  for  existing 
ones; less about lofty promises than about real results; 
and  less  about  narrow  self-interest  in  the  name  of 
sovereignty  than  about  an  expanded  view  of  mutual 
interest  in  which  there  is  room  for  all  to  grow  and 
prosper.  As  we  move  forward,  we  must  also  develop 
and  sustain  that  shared  sense  of  responsibility,  and 
demonstrate  that  responsibility  by  being  accountable. 
Canada  has  a  clear,  open  and  transparent  record,  and 
we are proud of what we have accomplished. 
(spoke in French) 

After  the  Group  of  Eight  summit  (G8)  last  year, 
we  doubled  our  support  for  agriculture  development. 
We  now  have  a  comprehensive  food  strategy  that 
commits  us  to  concrete  action.  We  have  untied  the 
strings that used to be attached to food aid. We doubled 
international assistance. We doubled aid to Africa. And 
we have forgiven more than $1 billion in debt owed by 
the poorest countries in the world. 
(spoke in English) 

Most  importantly,  we  have  established  clear 
priorities for aid. We are focusing on three things: food 
security, 
economic 
development, so that we can ensure our aid dollars are 
used  more  efficiently.  In  turn,  that  means  a  more 
focused and effective effort in reaching the Millennium 
Development Goals. 

As  host  of  this  year’s  G8  summit,  Canada 
introduced a new tool to measure aid effectiveness. For 
the  first 
time,  an  aid  accountability  report  was 
presented to G8 leaders. Leaders agreed to this because 
we  all  know  that  it  is  not  enough  for  nations  to  make 
children 
youth, 
and 
and 
10-54304 

15 

A/65/PV.6 

promises.  We  must  get  results.  We  must  all  be  held 
accountable. And people in the developing world must 
see that we deliver on our word. 
Ten  years  after  the  Millennium  Development 

Goals  were  written,  much  remains 
to  be  done, 
especially  when  it  comes  to  reducing  child  mortality 
and improving maternal health — Goals 4 and 5, to be 
exact.  It  is  a  sad  reality  that  each  year  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  mothers  die  in  pregnancy  and  nearly  9 
million children die before their fifth birthday. It does 
not have to be this way. Progress is possible, but only 
if we are all willing to take collective action. 

At  this  year’s  G8  summit,  together,  leaders 
agreed  to  enact  the  Muskoka  Initiative  for  maternal, 
newborn  and  child  health.  We  are  mobilizing  support 
from  G8  and  non-G8  leaders,  key  donors  and  private 
foundations.  Together,  it  is  anticipated  that  we  will 
mobilize  more  than  $10  billion  over  five  years.  The 
Muskoka  Initiative  will  save  millions  of  lives  and 
make  a  significant,  tangible  difference  in  the  lives  of 
the world’s most vulnerable people. 
(spoke in French) 

And  to  make  a  real  difference  in  the  lives  of 
vulnerable  people  is  the  purpose  of  the  Muskoka 
Initiative. Accountability for results will be an integral 
part  of 
rigorous  accountability 
framework  will  make  it  possible  to  measure  progress, 
monitor  results  and  ensure  that  funds  intended  for  aid 
really  contribute  to  a  reduction  in  the  mortality  of 
mothers  and  children  on  a  lasting  basis.  By  working 
together  and  tracking  our  results,  we  really  can  save 
millions of lives. 
(spoke in English) 
To that end, I am further pleased to announce that 

Canada  will  continue  to  contribute  to  the  struggle 
against  some  of  the  world’s  great  killer  diseases.  We 
will  be  increasing  our  replenishment  of  the  United 
Nations Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis  and 
Malaria for the years from 2011 to 2013. 

In closing, we donor nations must deliver on our 
commitments.  As  we  work  towards  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  we  must  be  focused,  we  must  be 
pragmatic  and,  above  all,  we  must  be  accountable.  If 
we  stay  the  course,  then  and  only  then  will  we  see 
results  —  measurable  improvements,  such  as  better 
nutrition,  better  health  care  for  children  and  longer 
the  plan.  Our 
lives  for  people  in  the  developing  world.  These  are 
results that we and the world need so desperately. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Orette  Bruce  Golding,  Prime  Minister 
of Jamaica. 
Mr.  Golding  (Jamaica):  My  delegation  joins  in 

congratulating  Mr.  Deiss  on  being  elected  to  lead  the 
sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly and for his 
chairmanship  of  this  important  High-level  Plenary 
Meeting. Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon deserves our 
commendation for his initiative in convening this very 
important Meeting. 

It is clear to my delegation that we are in danger 
of  failing  to  achieve  the  targets  that  we  set  for 
ourselves at the Millennium Summit 10 years ago. Ten 
years on, almost 1.5 billion people still live in extreme 
poverty and more than 1 billion suffer from hunger. 

In  the  race  to  2015,  many  developing  countries 
were  lagging  behind  even  before  the  global  economic 
crisis.  The  reasons  for  that  are  many.  Inadequate 
investment in human resource development has left us 
with  weak  productive  capacity. This,  together  with  an 
international  trading  system  that  treats  us  as  equals 
when we are not equal has rendered us more consumers 
than  producers,  more 
than  exporters, 
sustaining  jobs  elsewhere  instead  of  creating  jobs  for 
our own people. 

Our mounting indebtedness pre-empts the limited 
resources that we have. We are thus not able to devote 
adequate 
and 
infrastructure  —  all  necessary 
for 
investment,  job  creation  and  sustained  development. 
Not only is access to financing limited, but the cost of 
borrowing  is  expensive  because  we  are  perceived  by 
our circumstances to be risky borrowers. 

In  our  efforts  to  achieve  our  Millennium  targets, 
we  have  increased  as  much  as  we  can  our  social 
welfare programmes, but this, in a sense, is illusory for 
it  is  done  at  the  expense  of  more  self-sustaining 
development 
the 
reduction and elimination of poverty is to be measured 
not  by  the  number  of  people  kept  out  of  poverty 
because of fiscal cash transfers, but by the number that 
escape poverty without the need for such programmes. 
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  must 
initiatives.  Real  achievement 
training 
requirements 
education, 
in 
importers 
resources 
to 
16 

10-54304 
countries 
to  meet 
developing 


therefore  be  seen  as  a  development  imperative,  not 
merely as statistical targets. 

Much more detailed attention must be paid to the 
adverse  impact  of  the  global  crisis  on  the  efforts  of 
struggling 
the 
Millennium  targets.  Most  of  us  are  among  the  least 
resilient,  with  no  surpluses  to  mount  countercyclical 
stimulus  initiatives.  Many  of  the  gains  we  made 
through  considerable  effort  and  sacrifice  have  been 
reversed.  For  many  of  us,  it  is  as  if  we  must  start  all 
over  again.  The  slow  pace  of  the  global  recovery 
suggests  that  it  may  be  some  time  before  we  will  get 
going again. 

This  is  not  the  only  setback  we  have  suffered 
since  the  adoption  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. The increasing impact of climate change and the 
costs associated with measures we have had to adopt to 
counter  international  terrorism  have  constrained  our 
progress towards the attainment of these goals. 

What does this mean for us in terms of fulfilling 
the  goals  that  we  set  10  years  ago?  It  requires  more 
than  just  stock-taking.  It  requires  more  than  merely 
appealing for a redoubling of effort. 

Make  no  mistake.  Without  an  emergency 
programme  to  re-energize  the  MDG  agenda,  those 
targets  will  remain  elusive  in  2015  and  beyond.  The 
fiscal  policy  requirements  attached  to  the  resources 
that have been made available to developing countries 
through  institutions  like  the  International  Monetary 
Fund  are  contractionary.  They  cannot  assist  us  in 
meeting  our  targets  in  the  short-term. A  way  must  be 
found  through  more  concessionary  loans  and  grants 
and  debt-for-equity  swaps  for  the  channelling  of 
resources  and  the  fiscal  space  to  support  programmes 
for 
and 
capacity-building.  The 
for 
development, aligned with MDG 8, must be reinvigorated. 

facing 
developed  countries  as  a  result  of  the  recession.  Yet, 
we  urge  them  not  to  renege  on  or  postpone  their 
commitments  to  overseas  development  assistance.  If 
these commitments were needed at the time they were 
made,  they  are  needed  even  more  now.  But  we  need 
that.  We  need  an 
even  more 
institutional 
than 
framework  with 
innovative  provisions  calibrated 
towards  enabling  developing  countries  to  accelerate 
their development momentum. We need the process to 
be time-bound to create the necessary sense of urgency. 
empowerment 
partnership 
economic  development, 
We  well  appreciate 
the  constraints 
global 
A/65/PV.6
as 
of 
to 
for 
for 
levels 
appeal 
Jamaica 
poverty, 
investment 
We  need  clear  guidelines  established 
its 
implementation  and  vigilant  monitoring,  and  without 
excessive  bureaucracy.  But  let  us  do  it;  let  us  make 
things happen rather than let things happen to us. 

I raise an issue that escaped specific attention in 
defining the Millennium Goals. Crime and violence are 
proving increasingly to be an obstacle to the attainment 
of the Goals. This is not just a law-enforcement issue, 
but  a  development  issue,  and  is  correlated  to  issues 
such 
and 
competitiveness,  and  job  creation.  Local  crime  and 
violence is linked to the large international network of 
organized crime, making it a matter of global, not just 
domestic  concern.  We  urge  that  this  issue  be  tackled 
within  the  context  of  the  global  partnership  for 
development,  and  we  urge  its  incorporation  into  the 
existing MDG framework. 

special 
continues 
consideration  to  be  given  to  small  and  vulnerable 
economies  like  our  own,  which  are  classified  as 
middle-income  countries  and  therefore  not  considered 
eligible  for  certain  concessionary  and  development 
financing.  In  the  Caribbean,  a  hurricane  lasting  but  a 
few hours can set the country back 10 or 15 years. And 
it does. A sharp decrease in tourism, such as occurred 
immediately  after  9/11,  can  devastate  an  entire 
economy  that  depends  as  much  as  60  per  cent  on 
tourism for its growth. It is simply not fair for us to be 
treated  as  well-advanced  towards  economic  security 
when the possibility of a major catastrophic setback is 
never far away. 

Before I close, let me briefly report on Jamaica’s 
progress  towards  achievement  of  the  MDG  targets, 
despite  all  the  difficulties  with  which  we  have  had  to 
contend.  We  have  made  substantial  progress  towards 
universal  primary  education.  Our  challenge  is  to 
improve the quality of that education and to deal with 
the underperformance of our boys, which is extremely 
worrying  to  us.  We  support  the  incorporation  of 
secondary school completion rates into the assessing of 
MDG  2,  given 
rate, 
particularly among boys, and the susceptibility of that 
group to anti-social pursuits. 

We  are  on  track  to  achieve  the  MDG  6  targets. 
Through  assistance  from  the  Global  Fund,  we  have 
significantly  increased  access  to  antiretroviral  drugs 
and reversed the rate of HIV/AIDS infection. However, 
our  recent  reclassification  as  an  upper  middle-income 
the  post-primary  dropout 
10-54304 

17 

the  MDG 
framework,  given 
A/65/PV.6 

country  renders  us  ineligible  for  further  assistance 
from the Fund. We do not have the resources to fill this 
gap  and  therefore  run  the  risk  of  a  reversal  in  those 
gains.  Again,  we  urge  that  the  treatment  of  countries 
based on income classification be reviewed to take into 
account a country’s level of indebtedness and its fiscal 
capacity  to  finance  programmes  that  are  taken  for 
granted in respect to middle-income countries.  

Like  many  other  countries,  we  have  experienced 
a  significant  increase  in  poverty  as  a  result  of  the 
global recession, from 9 per cent to 16 per cent in the 
past two years. Recovering lost gains will depend to a 
great  extent  on  the  pace  of  recovery  in  the  global 
economy, as well as the possibility of special initiatives 
within  an  emergency  programme  for  which  I  have 
appealed. 

The  Caribbean  Community  has  proposed  that 
non-communicable  diseases  be  treated  as  a  discrete 
target  within 
their 
inextricable  link  to  mortality.  We  are  particularly 
pleased  that  the  General Assembly  adopted  resolution 
64/265,  which  supports  the  convening  of  a  high-level 
meeting on non-communicable diseases in 2011, which 
we  hope  will  be  fully  supported  by  the  international 
community. 

I believe that we must face the harsh reality that, 
with  only  one-third  of  our  time  remaining,  the  MDG 
targets  are  in  real  danger.  The  setbacks  we  have 
suffered  are  real.  We  will  not  achieve  these  targets  if 
we  proceed  at  the  same  pace  as  the  first  10  years. 
Renewed  commitment,  backed  by  new  strategies,  is 
required.  We  can  make  up  that  growth;  we  can 
overcome  the  setbacks  that  have  beset  us  in  recent 
times, but it will require much more than business-as–
usual;  it  will  require  a  new  strategic  emergency 
approach. 

to  altruism  and 
benevolence. A disguised, but inescapable truth is that 
the  surest  way 
to  secure  global  prosperity  and 
economic  stability,  as  well  as  global  peace  and 
security,  is  to  enable  all  countries  and  all  peoples  to 
contribute to and share in this prosperity. That must be 
the  ultimate  Millennium  Development  Goal.  This 
Meeting  must 
that 
commitment,  and  it  must  demonstrate  the  action  that 
that  mission  requires  —  the  action  that  will  enable  us 
to  declare  to  the  next  generation  that  the  mission, 
despite all difficulties, has been accomplished. 
My  appeal 
demonstrate 
is  not 
secure 
just 
and 
While 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Moulaye  Ould  Mohamed  Laghdaf, 
Prime Minister of the Islamic Republic of Mauritania. 
Mr.  Ould  Mohamed  Laghdaf  (Mauritania) 

(spoke in Arabic):  It  is  a  great  honour  to  stand  before 
this  Assembly  and  to  present,  on  behalf  of  the 
President  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Mauritania,  Mr. 
Mohamed  Ould  Abdel  Aziz,  a  progress  report  of  our 
country’s  march  towards  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs).  

Let  me  first  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your 
election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General Assembly  at 
its  sixty-fifth  session  and  wish  you  every  success.  I 
thank your predecessor, Mr. Ali Abdussalam Treki, for 
his  hard  work  and  his  excellent  management  of  the 
previous  session.  My  thanks  and  appreciation  also  go 
to  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his 
valuable  efforts  to  achieve  the  objectives  of  our 
Organization and strengthen its role in the maintenance 
of international world peace and security. 

the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs) are optimistic and ambitious, they can only be 
achieved  if  we  adopt  parallel  programmes  to  improve 
the  infrastructure  in  terms  of  roads,  electricity  and  in 
particular  transportation.  In  a  vast  country  such  as 
mine,  simply  opening  a  health  centre  or  educational 
facility or establishing projects to combat poverty in a 
remote  part  of  the  country  is  not  sufficient.  We  must 
also supply electricity and build passable roads leading 
there,  taking  into  consideration  the  lifestyle  of  our 
nomadic citizens and the fact that production areas and 
marketing  and  consumption  areas  are  not  necessarily 
the same. 
Bearing this in mind, the electoral programme of 

the  President  of  the  Republic,  Mr.  Mohamed  Ould 
Abdel Aziz,  besides encompassing all  the MDGs, was 
designed 
the 
requirements  of  development  in  our  large,  desert 
country,  where  most  of  the  population  lives  in  rural 
areas.  Thus,  we 
and 
implementing ambitious programmes to pave roads and 
build  health  centres  and  schools  in  remote  and  poor 
areas.    Special  efforts  were  required  to  connect  those 
areas  with  the  rest  of  the  country  and  enable  their 
inhabitants  to  access  the  basic  services  that  ensure 
them a decent living. 
realities  and  meet 
focused  on 
conceiving 
reflect 
the 
to 
18 

10-54304 



These ambitious programmes elicited praise from 
our development partners at the round table in Brussels 
this  past  June.  From  the  outset,  their  implementation 
took  into  account  the  priorities  of  our  country  in 
fighting  poverty  and  improving  social  and  security 
conditions  for  our  citizens.  This  was  reflected  in, 
among  other  things,  the  provision  of  decent  housing 
and necessary social services for thousands of citizens 
who  used  to  live  in  poverty  and  were  marginalized  in 
shanty towns in the capital and other major cities. 

Achieving  the  MDGs  requires  the  fulfilment  of 
two basic conditions, the first of which has to do with 
the  States  concerned, 
the  developing  countries 
themselves,  which  have  to  adopt  coherent  policies 
based  on  managing  resources,  fighting  corruption  and 
setting  priorities,  such  as  poverty  reduction,  food 
security, education, health and the construction of basic 
infrastructure.  Managing  our  resources  and  fighting 
bribery  and  the  misuse  of  public  money  have  enabled 
us  to  achieve  tangible  results.  The  considerable  funds 
released can be spent on the construction of a number 
of vital social facilities, such as schools, health centres 
and roads. 

The  second  basic  condition  is  the  fulfilment  of 
obligations  by  the  donor  and  developed  countries, 
particularly  the  allocation  of  0.7  per  cent  of  their 
national  income  to  developing  nations.  Here,  we  note 
with  satisfaction  the  announcement  by  some  States  of 
their  firm  intention  to  fulfil  their  obligations  and  to 
search for new and innovative funding. 

At  the  same  time,  we  ask  for  a  review  of  the 
procedures  for  disbursing  and  allocating  foreign 
funding,  with  particular  emphasis  on  support  for 
consumption  capacity,  ways  of  expediting 
the 
implementation of projects and support for the budget 
of  the  beneficiary  country.  The  current  procedures 
often cause delays in project implementation. 

to 
achieve  some  of  the  MDGs  by  2015,  relying  first  on 
our  own  resources  and  secondly  on  the  help  and 
support  of  our  development  partners.  We  can  affirm 
that all poor districts of the capital Nouakchott will be 
provided by the end of the year with electricity, and we 
are launching major projects to provide 74 per cent of 
the  urban  and  rural  population  with  potable  water  by 
the  year  2015.  Numerous  health  programmes  have  in 
fact  been  started  over  the  past  two  years,  including 
building  hospitals  and  health  centres  for  the  treatment 
the  current  situation,  we  expect 
Despite 
A/65/PV.6
in 
and  care  of  pregnant  women  and  newborn  babies,  as 
well  as  wide-ranging  campaigns  to  vaccinate  children 
under the age of five and to eliminate deadly diseases 
like malaria and tuberculosis. These projects will bear 
fruit, we think, before the MDG deadline. We have also 
made  considerable  progress 
improving  school 
enrolment rates and gender equality in basic education 
and will intensify our efforts in this area, where we are 
confident that we will be successful. 

Because Mauritania is threatened by drought and 
the rapid encroachment of the desert, together with the 
impact  of  various  environmental  factors  associated 
with  sustainable  development,  we  have  launched  in 
recent  weeks  a  national  programme 
to  combat 
desertification.  The  first  phase  of  this  programme, 
funded  by  private  sources  for  the  State,  includes  the 
introduction  of  a  green  belt  to  protect  the  capital  and 
its  social  and  economic  infrastructure  through  the 
planting  of  a  million  trees  over  the  next  two  years. 
Similar  projects  in  other  major  cities  of  the  country 
will follow. 

Mauritania  has  benefited  from  the  support  of  its 
brothers, friends and partners in working to achieve the 
MDGs.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank 
them and encourage them to continue to strengthen and 
expedite this cooperation. 

In  conclusion,  I  hope  that  our  current  meetings 
will  lead  to  the  formulation  of  recommendations  and 
suggestions  to  help  us  fulfil  our  commitments  and 
achieve  the  MDGs,  thereby  benefiting  humanity  as  a 
whole. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Heinz  Fischer,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Austria. 
President  Fischer:  It  is  my  privilege  to  address 

this  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on  behalf  of  Austria 
today. The  Meeting  provides  a  unique  opportunity  for 
us  to  strengthen  our  partnership  and  collective  efforts 
to  reach  the  Millennium  Development  (MDGs)  by  the 
target date 2015. While fully aligning myself with the 
statement of the European Union, I would like to offer 
some additional reflections. 

The  Goals  represent  the  very  best  of  United 
Nations ideals, ambitions and efforts to establish a fair, 
prosperous and secure world for all. On the one hand, 
they  are  the  most  important  collective  promise  ever 
10-54304 

19 
severe 
in 
small 
that 
countries, 
demonstrating 
the 
developing 
to  clean  water  and  HIV 
A/65/PV.6 

made  to  the  world’s  most  vulnerable  people.  On  the 
other  hand,  they  represent  an  internationally  agreed 
framework of quantified and time-bound targets which 
are  an  excellent  tool  for  addressing  the  most  pressing 
issues of extreme poverty, hunger and disease, and for 
promoting  gender  equality,  education  and  environmental 
sustainability. 
During  the  past  decade,  a  number  of  countries 

and 
in 
regions  have  achieved  major  successes 
combating  extreme  poverty  and  hunger,  improving 
school  enrolment  and  children’s  health,  expanding 
access 
treatment,  and 
controlling malaria, tuberculosis and neglected tropical 
diseases. This has been achieved in some of the poorest 
countries, 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  are  indeed  achievable  with  the 
right  policies,  adequate  levels  of  investment,  and 
international support. 
Still,  much  remains  to  be  done.  Challenges  are 

least  developed  countries, 
most 
landlocked 
island 
developing  States,  countries  that  are  vulnerable  to 
natural hazards and countries affected by conflicts. The 
global  financial  and  economic  crisis  had  a  negative 
impact on countries to various degrees. With declining 
resources,  donors  need  to  focus  even  more  on  goals 
and regions  where the achievement of  the Millennium 
Development Goals lags behind.  

Until 2015, the target date for the implementation 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  Austria  will 
concentrate  its  efforts  on  the  following  sectors  where 
we  have  gained  particular  expertise:  energy  and  the 
environment,  water  and  sanitation,  and  peace  and 
security.  By  focusing  on  these  sectors,  we  intend  to 
contribute  to  the  implementation  of  all  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  especially 
the  eradication  of 
extreme poverty and hunger. 

The current assessments of the implementation of 
the Millennium Development Goals conclude that there 
is a need for better inclusion of the most vulnerable in 
the  development  process.  This  means,  first  of  all,  the 
inclusion  of  women  and  girls,  the  most  neglected  and 
the  first  excluded  population  groups  worldwide. 
Advancing gender equality and empowering women is 
a  precondition  for  poverty  reduction,  sustainable 
economic  growth  and  social  development,  since 
women  are  important  agents  of  change  within  their 
societies.  Empowered  women  contribute  to  the  health 

One  of 
the  most  persistent  obstacles 
the  priorities  of  Austria’s  policy 
and  productivity  of  entire  families  and  communities 
and to improved prospects for the next generation. 

The  fate  of  women  affected  by  armed  conflicts 
and  their  role  in  peacebuilding  processes  continues  to 
be  among 
in 
development cooperation. Implementing the objectives 
of Security Council resolution 1325 (2000) on women, 
peace  and  security  in  the  daily  work  of  the  Security 
Council  remains  a  priority  during  our  non-permanent 
membership  of  the  Council.  Furthermore,  Austria 
adopted  a  national  action  plan  for  the  implementation 
of  resolution  1325  (2000)  in  August  2007.  The  plan 
calls  for  specific  measures  in  the  framework  of 
Austria’s  humanitarian,  diplomatic,  peacekeeping  and 
development activities. 

Finally, allow me to highlight the needs of people 
with  disabilities,  who  belong  to  the  most  vulnerable 
group  in  general,  and  in  development  processes  in 
particular. It is my firm belief that we need to increase 
our attention to this group. 

to 
development is the lack of transboundary infrastructure 
in  the  areas  of  energy,  water,  telecommunications  and 
transport.  I  should  therefore  like  to  emphasize  in 
particular 
to  overcome  extreme  energy 
poverty, which makes life so difficult for many people. 
I  strongly  support 
the  Secretary-General’s  global 
campaign  to  ensure  universal  access  to  energy  for  all 
people on Earth by 2030. We cannot hope to reach the 
Goals  if  2  billion  people  continue  to  lack  access  to 
electricity or other energy services for basic needs and 
for productive uses. 

I am convinced that a collective effort on a global 
scale and the commitment of donors to the Millennium 
Development  Goals,  together  with  the  intensified 
efforts  of  developing  countries  and 
the  relevant 
organizations  of  the  United  Nations  system  and  other 
international  stakeholders,  will  contribute  to  bringing 
developing  countries  back  on  the  path  of  sustainable 
economic  and  human  development.  I  know  that  all  of 
us, 
including  my  own  country,  have  a  great 
responsibility, and that we will assume it. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The  Assembly  will  how  hear  an  address  by  His 
Excellency Mr. Jean-Max Bellerive, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Haiti. 
the  need 
20 

10-54304 


Mr. Bellerive (Haiti) (spoke in French): Now that 

we  are  entering  the  critical  five  last  years  to  achieve 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  it  is 
appropriate,  in  the  light  of  the  situation  in  Haiti,  to 
pause briefly to analyze the path covered over the past 
10 years and that which remains before us. 

All  are  now  convinced  of  the  importance  of  the 
MDGs  as  tangible  development  indicators  for  any 
given  country.  However,  they  do  not  tell  the  whole 
story of the development efforts of that country, nor do 
they  necessarily  reflect  some  very  important  progress 
towards  stability,  which  is  a  sine  qua  non  for  any 
sustainable development. 

Since  2004,  Haiti  has  enjoyed  a  certain  measure 
of  stability.  That  is  no  small  thing  and  should  not  be 
overlooked.  I  firmly  believe,  however,  that  Haiti’s 
standing does not reflect our full reality, much less our 
potential.  We  should,  perhaps,  have  played  the  game 
better  and  invested  our  scarce  resources  in  certain 
aspects  of  development  that  would  have  relatively 
improved Haiti’s score and projected a different image.  

I  should  also  like  to  stress  the  fact  that  reaching 
the  MDGs  is  a  shared  responsibility,  although  we 
the  countries  concerned  should 
understand 
exercise 
the  primary 
responsibility  to  attain  the  Goals.  They  can  do  so, 
however,  only  with  enlightened  and  consistent 
international  support  over 
the 
priorities  of  developing  countries.  They  cannot  do  so 
without  genuine  respect  for  the  historic  and  cultural 
patrimony  and  development  choices  of  each  country 
concerned. 

Haiti  was  deeply  scarred  and  bore  the  full  brunt 
of  the  fruit  of  a  decade  of  poor  development  choices 
and an uncertain international context. What can Haiti 
do  alone  when  year  after  year  the  howling  winds  of 
hurricanes  year  push  tens  of  thousands  of  families 
further  into  poverty?  What  can  Haiti  do  alone  when 
struck by an unprecedented tragedy, such as that which 
occurred on 12 January? How, in such an environment, 
can we raise Haiti out of the vicious cycle of increasing 
vulnerability  that  deepens  poverty,  prompts  thousands 
of  Haitians  to  flee  their  unendurable  situation  by  land 
and  sea,  and  provokes  instability  that  discourages 
investment? In brief, how can we give our Government 
the  capacity  to  play  its  due  role  in  reversing  the 
situation? 
leadership  and 
to  assume 
that 
time 
that  reflects 
A/65/PV.6

The situation is far  from desperate, however. On 
the contrary, this is an almost unique opportunity for us 
to escape from the vicious cycle of poverty and enter a 
virtuous cycle of reducing vulnerabilities, investing in 
sectors  that  generate  employment  and  growth,  and 
providing basic social services. 

The tragedy of 12 January showed, as if it needed 
demonstrating,  that  Haiti’s  development  will  require  a 
true  reorganization,  promoting  harmonious  development 
between  the  capital  and  the  provinces  and  giving  the 
districts  the  means  to  play  a  more  important  role  in 
their own development. 

On  31  March  in  this  very  city,  we  launched  a 
special appeal through the Action Plan for the National 
Recovery  and  Development  of  Haiti.  Our  appeal  was 
well  received  and  significant  funds  were  pledged. 
However, these pledges have not been  fully translated 
into additional funds that would allow us to shift gears 
and  adequately  cover  all  the  major  programmes  that 
await financing. Our Action Plan creates the guidelines 
for  making  strategic  choices,  and  we  have  insisted  on 
the  importance  of  giving  Government  the  means  to 
fully  play  its  role,  failing  which  it  can  merely  be  an 
observer of events on its own territory.  

The  commitment  of  President  Clinton  and 
numerous  other  partners  seems  now  to  herald  a  better 
understanding  of  the  need  for  more  coordination  and 
transparency. The Interim Haiti Recovery Commission 
is a unique in this regard, but it is only temporary. We 
must therefore make the most of this period in order to 
prepare  the  foundation  for  a  permanency  that  can  be 
found  only  in  national  bodies,  within  ministries,  the 
Parliament  and  the  districts,  together  with  a  civil 
society  that  is  vibrant  and  involved  in  major  national 
choices. 

The contribution of non-governmental organizations 
is  indispensable  and  welcome  in  that  regard,  and  will 
continue  to  play  a  major  role.  But  that  contribution 
cannot permanently substitute for that of the State. The 
credibility  of  the  State  is  at  stake,  and  hence  the 
effectiveness of its institutions.  

For its part, the Haitian State continues to work to 
improve the predictability and level of resources it can 
ask of its citizens, even though a great deal remains to 
be done. It is also essential that the same predictability 
be  associated  with  the  financial  commitments  for  the 
reconstruction of Haiti. In this regard, there is still a lot 
the 
of  ground 
to  cover.  For  example, 
today 
10-54304 

21 

to  share 
international  community 
A/65/PV.6 

Government of Haiti has only a very approximate idea 
of  what  has  been  spent  by  humanitarian  agencies. We 
have requested that information, but the responses have 
been few and partial. That is not acceptable.  

Furthermore,  it  is  also  extremely  difficult  to 
know  the  real  amounts  available  to  development 
agencies,  be  they  multilateral,  bilateral  or  other. What 
amounts  could  be  reprogrammed?  How  much 
is 
available  to  them  in  terms  of  additional  funds?  These 
are  crucial  questions,  and  they  are  the  keystone  to 
coordination  and  efficient  efforts.  I  therefore  call  on 
the 
information 
better,  which  is  the  basis  for  true  dialogue.  Without 
that,  there  will  be  no  national  ownership,  which  may 
translate  into  short-term,  ephemeral  effects,  and  Haiti 
will  not  only  not  progress  in  its  efforts  to  rebuild  the 
country  and  attain  at  least  some  of  the  MDGs,  but  it 
will regress.  

As  I  have  said  previously,  we  cannot  envisage 
such a scenario. Haiti can and must change its image as 
an  unstable,  rudderless  country  and  become  a  country 
that is proud of its past and believes in its future. Our 
success  will  be  that  of  the  international  community, 
and will extend far beyond the borders of our country 
and shed new light on the realities of development and 
the  ability  of  the  international  community  to  keep  its 
promises. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The General Assembly will now hear an address by His 
Highness  Sheikh  Naser Al-Mohammad Al-Ahmad Al-
Sabah, Prime Minister of the State of Kuwait.  
Sheikh Al-Sabah (Kuwait) (spoke in Arabic): At 

the outset, it is my honour to convey to the Assembly 
the greetings of His Highness, the Emir of the State of 
Kuwait,  and  of  the  Government  and  the  people  of 
Kuwait. I congratulate you, Sir, on presiding over this 
High-level  Plenary  Meeting  to  review  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). We are certain that your 
wise  leadership  and  good  conduct  will  contribute  to 
fulfilling our shared objectives.  

I  would  also  like  to  express  our  thanks  and 
gratitude to Secretary-General Mr. Ban  Ki-moon, who 
presented  a  comprehensive  review  of  the  successes 
achieved to date, the desired goals and the reasons for 
the  delay  in  achieving  them  in  his  report  entitled 
“Keeping  the  promise:  a  forward-looking  review  to 
promote  an  agreed  action  agenda  to  achieve  the 
Millennium Development Goals by 2015” (A/64/665).  
the  road 
to  attaining 
At  the  historic  Millennium  Summit  held  at  the 

dawn  of 
this  century,  our  heads  of  State  and 
Government  issued  a  long-term  programme  and  road 
map for achieving the noble development goals of the 
neediest  peoples  of  the  world. That  programme  was  a 
beacon  and  a  guiding  light  that  lit  the  path  towards 
achieving those goals.  

Five  years  ago,  world  leaders  met  at  the  first 
MDG  Review  Conference,  and  everyone  then  felt 
optimistic.  The  indicators  were  encouraging  and  the 
statistics  showing  the  range  of  responses  by  States, 
particularly the least developed and those most affected 
in  sub-Saharan  Africa  and  Asia,  spurred  enthusiasm 
and  determination  to  exert  further  efforts  and  commit 
to  moving  ahead  on 
the 
Millennium Development Goals. 

However, this Meeting, an important opportunity 
to revisit the Millennium Development Goals, has been 
dominated  by  discouraging  indicators,  especially  for 
Goal  1  relating  to  the  halving  of  global  poverty  and 
hunger.  This  situation  poses  a  real  challenge  to  the 
international  community  as  it  seeks  to  fight  the  twin 
scourges  of  poverty  and  hunger.  Rather  than  fall,  the 
number of poor people rose from 800 million in 1990 
to more than 1 billion in 2009.  
It  is  therefore  imperative  to  uphold  the  previous 

commitments,  particularly 
the 
developed  countries  in  the  Monterrey  Consensus  and 
the  Doha  Declaration  on  Financing  for  Development, 
to  allocate  0.7  per  cent  of  their  gross  national  income 
to official development assistance. 

Since our last conference in 2005, the  world has 
witnessed enormous crises and challenges, such as the 
increase  in  food  prices  and  the  oscillation  of  energy 
prices. These were followed by a suffocating financial 
and  economic  crisis  that  has  threatened  the  global 
economic  system  and  the  political  and  social  stability 
of some States. While all States without exception have 
suffered  the  effects  of  this  crisis,  its  impact  on  the 
developing  and  least  developed  countries  has  been 
more severe, despite the fact that these States were not 
responsible for it or its root causes. 
We  welcome  the  steps  taken  and  the  policies 

adopted  by  a  number  of  international  and  regional 
groupings  to  confront  this  crisis,  ease  its  impact  and 
prevent  its  recurrence.  However,  we  must  do  much 
more  to  help  the  global  economy  to  recover  and  to 
achieve a fair and balanced international trade system.  
those  made  by 
22 

10-54304 
limited 
the  efforts  and 



One  of  the  other  serious  challenges  our  world 
faces, and one that we should confront with a joint and 
unified  effort,  is  the  phenomenon  of  climate  change 
and its impact on all aspects of life, from economic and 
trade  activities  to  the  environment,  the  ecosystem  and 
biological diversity. Over the past few years, the world 
has  witnessed  an  increase  in  the  number  of  natural 
disasters,  which  have  become  more  severe  and 
destructive because of climate change. These disasters 
have caused enormous losses of life and property, as in 
the case of the destructive earthquake that hit Haiti in 
January  2010  or  the  floods  that  swept  Pakistan  last 
month.  We  hope  that  we  will  be  able  to  agree  on  a 
legally  binding  document  at  the  upcoming  conference 
scheduled  for  December  2010  in  Cancun,  Mexico, 
which  must  spell  out 
the  steps,  policies  and 
responsibilities  required  on  the  part  of  the  developed 
and developing countries in order to limit the effects of 
climate  change  and  to  enable  developing  countries  to 
adapt to its consequences. 
Despite  the  fact  that  these  difficulties  have 

hindered 
the  abilities  of 
numerous  States  to  achieve  the  MDGs,  we  agree  with 
what  was  mentioned  in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  (A/64/445)  to  the  effect  that  achievement  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  on  time  remains 
feasible,  given  the  necessary  commitment,  policies, 
resources and effort.  
Therefore, we view this meeting as an important 

opportunity 
renew  our  commitment  and  our 
determination  to  shoulder  our  responsibilities,  fulfil 
our  obligations  and  mobilize  our  energies  for  a  better 
world,  where 
the  gap  created  by  disagreements, 
divisions  and  conflicts  fed  by  the  absence  of  justice 
and  equality  can  be  narrowed  while  the  horizons  of 
cooperation  and  partnership  are  expanded,  and  where 
peace and security prevail. 

In  this  regard,  we  wish  to  emphasize  that  the 
United  Nations  remains  the  most  credible,  legitimate 
and  neutral  multilateral  mechanism  there  is  and  the 
best  place  to  discuss  ways  and  means  to  reach  joint 
collective solutions to global challenges and hazards. 

the 
development goals the world seeks to achieve by 2015 
are attainable. There are positive signs that support this 
conviction,  such  as 
in  school 
enrolment  rates  and  child  and  maternal  health,  the 
increase in access to clean water and the progress made 
The  State  of  Kuwait  believes 
improvements 
that 
the 
to 
A/65/PV.6
the  world 
rates  of  unemployment, 
in  combating  serious  diseases  such  as  HIV/AIDS, 
malaria and tuberculosis. 

All  these  advances  and  positive  results  require 
constant and prompt efforts in order for us to maintain 
and  consolidate  them,  particularly  in  the  face  of  the 
numerous  challenges 
faces.  A  high 
percentage of the world’s population in certain regions 
still  suffers  from  poverty,  hunger,  serious  diseases, 
increased 
illiteracy  and 
displacement. This is in addition to the negative effects 
of armed conflicts and foreign occupation, the perils of 
the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction, 
including nuclear weapons, the spread of transnational 
organized  crime,  the  illegal  drug  trade,  the  spread  of 
terrorism  and  violations  of  human  rights. All  of  these 
difficulties pose, together, a real threat to international 
peace  and  security  and  an  obstacle  to  achieving  the 
desired sustainable development. 

The State of  Kuwait is  actively seeking, with all 
the means at its disposal, to achieve the MDGs and to 
improve  the  welfare  of  Kuwaiti  citizens.  Kuwait’s 
economic  and  social  development  indicators  have 
surpassed  the  targeted  averages  and  rank  high  both 
regionally  and  internationally,  according  to  reports  by 
United  Nations  agencies  concerned  with  human 
development.  
Currently,  unified  efforts  are  being  made  and  all 

the 
available 
national  development  plan 
for  2010-2014.  The 
estimated cost of the plan is about $115 billion. It is an 
ambitious  plan  that  seeks  to  advance  all  the  State’s 
sectors,  improve  infrastructure  and  raise  the  level  of 
education  and  health  care  services,  as  well  as  to  set 
Kuwait  on  a  path  to  becoming  a  financial  and  trade 
centre for the region. 
As the State of Kuwait continues its assistance to 

the  Kuwait  Fund  for  Arab 
developing  countries, 
Economic  Development  continues 
to  support  and 
finance  development  and  infrastructure  projects  in 
more  than  100  countries,  with  a  total  value  of  almost 
$15  billion,  making  the  median  amount  provided 
double the percentage of gross national income agreed 
upon 
development 
assistance.  The  State  of  Kuwait  wishes  to  renew  its 
commitment to continuing to provide development and 
financial  assistance  to  States  in  need  in  order  to  help 
them  achieve  stability  and  progress  and  to  advance 
their capacities to fulfil their own development needs. 
resources  mobilized 
internationally 
implement 
official 
to 
for 
10-54304 

23 

the 
We 
recognize 
tremendous 
A/65/PV.6 


international 
responsibility  and  the  difficulties  and  challenges  that 
stand  in  the  way  of  many  countries  in  their  efforts  to 
accomplish the MDGs and achieve their purposes. We 
are, however, convinced that those goals are achievable 
if  supported  by  political  will  and  total  belief  in  the 
importance of joint and collective work, as well as by 
our  adherence  to  the  resolutions  we  take  and  the 
commitments we make. Let us all work together for the 
good,  the  dignity  and  the  welfare  of  our  peoples, 
guided by the purposes and principles of the Charter of 
the  United  Nations  and  by  profound  respect  for 
international law. 
The  Co-Chair  (Mr.  Treki)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

The General Assembly will now hear an address by His 
Excellency  Mr.  Stephenson  King,  Prime  Minister  of 
Saint Lucia. 
Mr.  King  (Saint  Lucia):  Ten  years  ago,  we  met 

and  agreed  on  a  set  of  actions  documenting  our 
collective responsibility for ensuring that we lived in a 
world 
that  was  more  equitable.  We  developed 
indicators and set targets, which at this point we must 
assess.  

Saint  Lucia  is  among  those  nations  that  adopted 
the  eight  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  to 
be  achieved  by  2015.  As  we  assess  our  progress  and 
the  commitments  we  made,  let  us  not  forget  that  our 
promises  were  made  on 
the  basis  of  certain 
assumptions  about  our  surroundings.  We  now  know 
that  these  assumptions  were  flawed,  for  within  that 
period  of  time  we  have  had  oil  price  shocks,  food, 
health,  and  financial  crises,  major  natural  disasters 
and —  very  fundamental  to  small  island  developing 
States  —  a  worsening  global  environment  through 
climate  change.  In  spite  of  these  challenges,  we  have 
not  abandoned  our  tasks.  In  fact,  we  are  even  more 
committed to achieving or getting close to our goal by 
the designated dates.  

For  us,  achieving  the  MDGs  by  2015  was  an 
undertaking  and  commitment  to  work  together  for  the 
betterment of mankind. However, the first eight pages 
of  the  Secretary-General’s  report  (A/64/665)  tell  the 
story  of  how  much  remains  to  be  done  globally  if  we 
are  to  get  near  the  targets  in  2015.  It  tells  us  that  we 
must  undertake  a  comprehensive  review  of  progress 
and  together  chart  a  course  for  accelerated  action  on 
the MDGs between now and 2015. Let me give a brief 
synopsis of Saint Lucia’s progress towards these goals. 

Immediately  after  their  adoption,  Saint  Lucia 
embarked  on  a  process  to  localize  the  MDGs.  The 
benefits of that exercise were twofold. First, it ensured 
that  the  national  policies  were  consistent  with  and 
supported  by  the  global  framework,  and  secondly,  it 
facilitated the development of a national framework in 
which  the  targets  and  the  indicators,  as  well  as  the 
monitoring  and  reporting  systems,  are  relevant  and 
adapted to national needs and capacities. A multisector 
working  group/task  force,  coordinated  through  the 
Ministry  of  Social  Transformation  and  comprising 
players from key sectors, was responsible for preparing 
the report on the MDGs. The current status of each of 
the Goals is outlined as follows. 

Regarding  MDG  1,  on  eradicating  extreme 
poverty  and hunger, the main quantitative indicator of 
extreme  poverty  —  people  living  on  less  than  $1  per 
day — is not applicable to Saint Lucia.  Currently, the 
data  indicates  that  our  poverty  level  increased  from 
25.1 per cent in 1995 to 28.8 per cent in 2009, but that 
the indigence level decreased from 7.1 per cent in 1995 
to  1.6  per  cent  in  2009.  The  Government  is  currently 
involved  in  a  number  of  programmes,  initiatives  and 
institutions  that  are  primarily  dedicated  to  reducing 
poverty; 
services; 
developing  skills  in  order  to  enhance  employability; 
providing  access  to  credit;  providing  support  services 
to  micro-businesses;  distributing  funds  for  the  benefit 
of  poor,  needy  and  disadvantaged  persons,  including 
scholarships  to  students;  and  increasing  access  to  and 
the  quality  of  basic  economic 
infrastructure  and 
services among vulnerable communities and groups. 

Regarding  MDG  2,  on  achieving  universal 
primary  education,  universal  primary  education  has 
been in place in Saint Lucia since 1980, and September 
2006  marked  the  formal  inauguration  of  universal 
secondary  education.  While  Saint  Lucia  has  achieved 
both  universal  primary  and  secondary  education,  the 
commitment of the Government continues to be high as 
it  works  to  improve  the  quality  of  education  through 
improvements 
in  school 
conditions. 

Regarding MDG 3, on promoting gender equality 
and  the  empowerment  of  women,  eliminating  gender 
disparity in access to education is not entirely relevant 
in Saint Lucia, as that was achieved long ago. There is, 
however,  a  need  to  mainstream  the  gender  dimension 
in all aspects of development. There is an acute need to 
systematically address issues of gender-based violence 
training  and 
to  public 
improving 
teacher 
access 
in 
24 

10-54304 
is  better 


and  other  forms  of  discrimination  against  women.  On 
the  other  hand,  there  are  a  number  of  critical  issues 
regarding  male  marginalization  and  other  problems 
affecting  young  men  which  need  to  be  urgently 
addressed. 

MDG 4 relates to reducing child mortality. Child 
mortality  rates  are  higher  than  the  target  set  by  the 
MDGs. Saint Lucia continues to pursue of a vision of 
universal primary health care and the attainment of this 
MDG.  This  involves  a  radical  departure  from  the 
system  of  curative  medical  care  to  a  system  of 
preventative care and health promotion. 

Mr.  Mac-Donald  (Suriname),  Vice-President  of 
the General Assembly, took the Chair. 
Turning  to  MDG  5,  on  improving  maternal 

health,  maternal  health 
in  most 
developing countries and surpasses the MDG target. At 
present,  98  per  cent  of  births  are  attended  by  skilled 
health professionals and 96 per cent of women benefit 
from prenatal care. 

MDG  6  concerns  combating  HIV/AIDS,  malaria 
and  other  diseases.  The  Saint  Lucia  National 
HIV/AIDS  Strategic  Plan  2004-2009,  launched  in 
February  2005,  is  the  guiding  framework  for  the 
country’s response to the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Efforts 
are  being  made 
improve  both  reporting  and 
surveillance  systems.  Malaria  is  no  longer  present  in 
Saint  Lucia,  and  other  communicable  diseases  are 
generally  under  control.  However,  diseases  such  as 
diabetes,  hypertension,  heart  conditions  and  cancer 
continue  to  be  of  concern,  and  wellness  programmes 
are being developed to bring these under control. 

to  ensuring  environmental 
sustainability.  To  ensure  sustainable  use  of  natural 
resources,  a  number  of  policies  and  programmes  have 
been  developed  and  implemented.  These  are  geared 
sustainable 
towards 
the 
and 
management  of  marine, 
terrestrial,  coastal  and 
atmospheric  resources.  Saint  Lucia  is  signatory  to  a 
number  of  regional  and  international  environmental 
agreements.  Noteworthy  is  the  Liliendaal  Declaration 
on  Climate  Change  and  Development  signed  by  the 
States members of the Caribbean Community. 

On  MDG  8,  concerning  a  global  partnership  for 
development, Government policies in Saint Lucia have 
always  promoted  partnerships  through  subregional, 
regional  and  international  organizations.  We  have  a 
addressing 
MDG  7 
relates 
to 
than 
use 
A/65/PV.6
very  open  economy  and  facilitate  direct  foreign 
investment,  as  well  as  ensuring 
that  official 
development  assistance  funds  are  properly  accounted 
for. 

Considerable  progress  has  been  made  by  Saint 
Lucia towards the attainment of the MDGs. Moreover, 
the prospects for achieving the Goals by the target year 
of 2015 remain positive and give reason for optimism. 
Nevertheless,  it  has  been  recognized  that  there  is  a 
need for a more systematic approach in mainstreaming 
the MDGs into the national development agenda.  The 
MDGs  ought  not  to  be  regarded  as  an  end  in 
themselves,  but  as  a  means  to  an  end.  It  must  be 
remembered  that  many  of  the  Goals  and  targets  were 
set at their lowest entry points and that, at the time of 
adoption,  many  countries  were  above  the  threshold. 
The  challenge  for  counties  like  Saint  Lucia  was  to 
ensure forward and upward movement to a level where 
poverty would be a thing of the past. 

I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  progress  towards 
the MDGs will be of little consequence if development 
gains  are  not  lasting.  The  developed  States  should 
promote  broad-based  economic  growth  by  helping 
counties formulate and implement pro-growth policies, 
promote  trade,  invest  in  infrastructure  and  stimulate 
entrepreneurship. 

All  of  that  will  be  useless  if  we  cannot  get  the 
major players in the global-warming scenario to reduce 
their  emissions  and  at 
to 
environmental degradation.  
renewed  political 
There 

the 
commitment 
establishment  of 
for 
accelerating  progress  toward  the  Goals.  Let  us  be 
resolute in our efforts to move forward and adopt and 
put  in  place  policies  and  programmes  that  will  enable 
us to keep moving towards a better world for all. 
The Acting Chair: The Assembly will now hear 

an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mohamed  Waheed, 
Vice-President of the Republic of Maldives. 
Mr. Waheed (Maldives): Today marks the forty-

fifth  anniversary  of  my  country’s  joining  the  United 
Nations.  Over  the  past  45  years,  the  United  Nations, 
other international organizations and friendly countries 
have  helped  Maldives  to  achieve  enormous  progress. 
For that I would like to thank them today.  
should  hence  be 
to  achieving 
the  MDGs  and 
agenda 
least  return  stability 
a  global 
action 
10-54304 

25 

The  Maldives 
faces 
A/65/PV.6 


I  could  stand  here  and  say  that  the  Maldives  is 
progressing well towards the Millennium Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  I  could  explain  that  the  Maldives  has 
already achieved five out of the eight MDGs ahead of 
the 2015 deadline, making it South Asia’s only MDG-
plus  country.  I  could  talk  about  our  achievements  on 
poverty eradication, primary education, reducing child 
mortality,  ensuring  maternal  health  and  combating 
HIV/AIDS, malaria and other diseases.  

However, I prefer to use the opportunity provided 
by today’s high-level event to give participants a sense 
of the enormous challenges that the Maldives faces in 
continuing  and  consolidating  its  positive  trajectory. 
Tragic  events  like  the  2004  Asian  tsunami  remind  us 
that progress towards the MDGs should never be taken 
for  granted.  Improvements  and  successes  that  have 
taken years to accumulate can easily be put into reverse 
unless  we  remain  vigilant  and  prepared  to  respond  to 
such extreme events, natural or man-made. 

three  broad  horizontal 
challenges  and  a  number  of  challenges  specific  to 
certain  MDGs.  First,  in  parallel  with  our  socio-
economic  drive  towards  the  MDGs,  the  Maldives  is 
also  struggling  with 
imperative  of 
consolidating  democracy  and  integrating  the  concepts 
of  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law  into  our  national 
consciousness. We are not unique in this. All countries 
in  transition  experience  an  inherent  tension  between 
the past and the future, between those segments of the 
population  that  benefited  from,  and  would  prefer  a 
return to, the old system and those parts of society that 
are  impatient  for  real  change  and  a  fairer,  more  just 
society.  

This  underlying  tension,  coupled  with  related 
challenges such as the rise of religious extremism, has 
important 
for  democratic 
consolidation  but  also  for  our  efforts  to  achieve  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  That  is  because  the 
Government’s approach to development is premised on 
empowering  the  people  and  giving  them  the  freedom 
lives. 
and  opportunity 
Promoting  human 
the 
government  and  administration,  privatization  and 
redistribution: 
of 
Government  policy.  But  such  policies  are  also  a  clear 
threat  to  the  powerful  vested  interests  that  once 
controlled the country. 
rights,  decentralization  of 
implications  not  only 
to  build  and  better 
their 
the  political 
those 
are 
the 
foundations 

Secondly,  linked  with  the  country’s  political 
challenges  is  the  unfortunate  fact  that  the  Maldives  is 
struggling  to  consolidate  democracy  and  the  rule  of 
law  at  a  time  when  the  macroeconomic  situation 
remains  precarious.  This  was  caused  by  extravagant 
spending  by  the  former  Government  in  the  run-up  to 
the 2008 elections, coupled with the after-effects of the 
tsunami and the onset of the global financial crisis. 

In  consultation  with  the  International  Monetary 
Fund, the Government has taken a wide range of steps 
to confront this problem. The outcome of those efforts 
will  determine  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals 
and  our  people’s  broader 
development aspirations. For example, pressures on the 
national  budget  are  already  having  a  negative  impact 
on the health and education sectors.  

A  third  broad  development  challenge  facing  the 
country is our impending graduation, at the end of this 
year,  from  the  United  Nations  list  of  least  developed 
countries.  This  will  have  enormous  implications  for 
Maldives’  economy  and  for  our  continued  socio-
economic  development.  Despite  this,  we  welcome 
graduation  as  a  reflection  of  our  progress  over  many 
years  and  as  the  start  of  a  new  phase  in  our  national 
development. 

That  said,  it  would  be  not  only  wrong  but  also 
dangerous  to  assume  that  Maldives’  well-documented 
vulnerabilities as a small island developing nation will 
disappear  the  moment  we  are  recognized  as  a  middle-
income country. Indeed, no one would question the fact 
that  Maldives  remains  acutely  vulnerable  at 
the 
economic,  commercial,  social  and  environmental 
levels. Thus, the question is how we might square the 
circle  and  agree 
is  a  positive 
development  to  be  welcomed  while,  at  the  same  time, 
conceding  that  key  vulnerabilities  remain  and  that 
small island States like Maldives will continue to need 
support if we are to meet the MDGs. 

To  us,  the  answer  is  clear. There  is  a  need  for  a 
far  better,  more  efficient,  more  targeted  and  more 
measurable system of United Nations support for small 
island  developing  nations.  This  reform  system  must 
include  a  formal  transparent  category  for  small  island 
developing States.  

Before concluding, I want to briefly touch on two 
MDGs  on  which  Maldives,  relatively  speaking,  has 
made  less  progress.  These  are  MDG  3,  on  achieving 
that  graduation 
26 

10-54304 


gender  equality  and  women’s  empowerment,  and 
MDG 7, on ensuring environmental sustainability. 

Overall,  the  gender  gap  in  Maldives  is  closing, 
albeit  perhaps  more  slowly  than  is  necessary  to  meet 
MDG 3 by 2015. In certain circumstances, the cultural 
and  social  norms  of  the  country  create  obstacles  to 
women’s equal participation in society, while isolation 
and  a  lack  of  access  to  resources  and  educational  and 
employment  opportunities 
likewise  pose  major 
challenges,  especially  for  girls  and  women.  The 
creation  of  space  and  opportunities  for  women  to 
contribute  to  development  is  a  policy  priority  for  the 
Government. Gender mainstreaming is now obligatory 
across all Government policy areas, while new laws are 
being  prepared  to  combat  discrimination  and  violence 
against women. 

Environmental  sustainability  is  one  of  the  most 
fundamental  problems  in  Maldives,  challenging  our 
basic right to life. The country has considerable ground 
to cover to achieve MDG 7. Maldives is determined to 
play  its  part.  Protecting  the  environment  is  a  priority 
for the Government, and last year we announced plans 
to  become  the  world’s  first  carbon-neutral  country. 
However,  the  transnational  nature  of  environmental 
harm  means  that  we  cannot  win  this  battle  alone.  We 
need  the  commitment  and  support  of  the  international 
community,  especially 
the  context  of  climate 
change. 
The  Acting  Chair:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency Mr. Hor Namhong, Deputy Prime Minister, 
Minister 
International 
Cooperation of Cambodia. 
Mr.  Hor  (Cambodia):  I  am  very  pleased  to 

participate  in  this  very  important  and  timely  Meeting 
for  the  mid-term  review  of  the  implementation  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  for 
common  reflection  on  the  next  step  to  take  to  relieve 
the world from poverty. 
With  less  than  five  years  to  the  target  date  of 

2015, the achievement of the MDGs has so far been a 
mixed  picture  of  shortfalls  and  successes.  The 
apprehension that most of the least developed countries 
(LDCs)  will  have  difficulties  in  achieving  the  MDGs 
by  2015  is  accentuated  by  unfolding  multiple  crises 
relating 
the  global  economic  meltdown,  food 
insecurity, climate change and debt relief. 
for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
in 
to 
A/65/PV.6
Another 
track 

Meeting  the  MDG  target  of  halving  poverty  by 
2015 will require steady economic growth and a more 
pro-poor  policy.  A  number  of  governance  reforms  to 
create  an  enabling  environment  for  poverty  reduction 
are  also  needed.  It  is  important  to  expand  growth  in 
sectors  that  can  generate  greater  employment  and  to 
invest  more  intensively  in  sectors,  such  as  health  and 
education,  that  build  human  capacity  to  engage  more 
productively in economic activities. 

for  developing 
important  concern 
countries is how to get more commercially meaningful 
access  to  international  markets.  Therefore,  concerted 
efforts  should  be  made  to  get  the  Doha  Round 
negotiations  back  on 
towards  a  successful 
conclusion  in  order  to  break  down  trade  barriers, 
particularly  for  agricultural  products,  and  to  reduce 
agricultural  subsidies  in  developed  countries.  In  this 
respect,  the  granting  of  quota-free  and  duty-free 
schemes for products from developing countries would 
contribute  to  raising  export  earnings  and  make  trade 
exchange work for development. 

In addition, the developed countries should fulfil 
their commitment to meeting the internationally agreed 
target of allocating 0.7 per cent of their gross national 
income 
to  all 
developing  countries,  as  well  as  to  meeting  the 
internationally agreed target of allocating 0.15-0.20 per 
cent  of  their  gross  national  income  to  LDCs.  More 
serious consideration should also be given to relieving 
poor  countries  of  their  debt  burden,  thus  increasing 
their financial resources to fund essential development 
projects  and  meet  the  MDGs.  All  these  measures  are 
not only a question of generosity, but also an obligation 
in creating a safe world for all. 

In  2003,  the  Royal  Government  of  Cambodia 
adopted its own development targets, called Cambodia 
MDGs,  which  are  incorporated  comprehensively  into 
phase  II  of our Rectangular Strategy and our National 
Strategic  Development  Plan  2009-2013.  Cambodia  is 
therefore  on  track  to  achieve  the  MDG  targets  for 
reducing  child  mortality,  combating  HIV/AIDS, 
malaria  and  other  diseases,  and  forging  a  global 
partnership 
the 
outstanding  success  of  these  efforts,  last  Sunday  the 
MDG  Award  Committee  in  New  York  presented  to 
Cambodia the MDG Award 2010 for MDG 6. 

Development 
According  to  a  recent  study  by  the  Overseas 
the  United  Nations 
to  official  development  assistance 
for  development. 
Institute  and 
In 
recognizing 
10-54304 

27 
learned 
A/65/PV.6 

Millennium  Campaign,  Cambodia  is  listed  among 
20 countries making the most absolute progress on the 
MDGs  and  on  track  to  meet  the  target  of  halving 
poverty by 2015. Indeed, we are pleased to see that the 
improvement in poverty reduction is visible throughout 
the  country.  There  has  also  been 
substantial 
improvement  in  education.  We  are  now  implementing 
phase  II  of  the  Rectangular  Strategy,  in  which  our 
national  strategy  for  poverty  reduction  is  a  priority. 
Nonetheless,  we  are  fully  aware  that,  despite  this 
significant  progress  towards  sustainable  development, 
Cambodia  still  faces  many  of  the  challenges  faced  by 
most developing countries. 

Among  these  tremendous  challenges,  poverty 
reduction remains the highest and foremost priority of 
the  developing  countries.  Prom  Cambodia’s  perspective, 
we  have 
that  peace  and  political  and 
macroeconomic  stability,  supported  by  a  vibrant 
development  partnership,  are  keys 
to  sustainable 
development,  which  would  provide  us  with  a  better 
opportunity  to  address  the  challenges  we  face  in 
meeting the MDGs by 2015. 

We  now  have  less  than  five  years  to  achieve  the 
MDGs.  Taking  into  account  the  challenges  facing 
developing  countries,  we  need  more  than  ever  the 
participation  of  all  developed  countries  and  financial 
Institutions;  otherwise,  our  efforts  to  achieve  the 
MDGs will be in vain. 
The Acting  Chair:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Her 

Excellency  Ms.  Gunilla  Carlsson,  Minister  of 
International  Development  Cooperation 
the 
Kingdom of Sweden. 
Ms.  Carlsson
(Sweden):  The  Millennium 

Development  Goals  (MDGs)  represent  a  common 
agenda  to  enhance  and  coordinate  our  efforts  for 
poverty 
global 
development. The MDGs are about improving the lives 
of the world’s poorest people: everyone’s right to take 
an  active  part  in  shaping  their  own  future  and  that  of 
their  families,  communities  and  countries.  They  are 
about enabling people to move out of poverty and into 
lives of freedom and opportunity. 
Governments  that  pursue  democratic  development 

hand  in  hand  with  human  rights  stand  a  better  chance 
of  achieving  the  MDGs. The  overall  trend  is  positive. 
Infant and child mortality have dropped, and more girls 
attend  school.  Evidence  shows  that  the  MDGs  can  be 
met if there is sufficient political will. 
sustainable 
eradication 
of 
and 


However,  despite  the  progress,  we  still  face 
challenges. Millions of people suffer  from hunger  and 
lack  access  to  safe  drinking  water.  Climate  change 
affects  our  living  conditions.  The  poorest  suffer  the 
most, and Africa is particularly hard-hit. 

Sweden is deeply concerned that some MDGs are 
lagging  behind. That  is  especially  true  of  MDG  5,  on 
maternal  health.  It  is  unacceptable  that  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  women,  most  of  them  very  young,  die 
every  year  from  complications  related  to  pregnancy 
and  childbirth.  The  causes  of  maternal  mortality  are 
well known and, in most cases, preventable. 

We  cannot  ignore  the  right  of  women,  men  and 
young  people  to  sexual  education  and  access  to 
reproductive health services. We cannot close our eyes 
to  the  fact  that  13  per  cent  of  maternal  deaths  are 
caused  by  unsafe  abortions.  Maternal  health  must  be 
addressed  within  a  comprehensive  approach  to  sexual 
and  reproductive  health  and  rights.  There  is  a  strong 
link  with  gender  equality,  which  is  the  best  way  to 
ensure a woman’s right to her own body. Sweden will 
continue to defend, protect and promote those rights. 
Investment  in  national  health  systems  is  critical. 

It  leads  to  healthier  mothers,  children  and  families. 
Healthy  mothers  contribute 
levels  of 
education,  economic  growth  and  productivity,  as 
healthy  women  can  participate  fully  in  social  and 
economic life. 

Sweden welcomes the Secretary-General’s Global 
Strategy  for  Women’s  and  Children’s  Health.  We 
congratulate  him  on  making  MDG  4  and  MDG  5  a 
priority  for  the  whole  United  Nations  system.  The 
Strategy provides a vision and emphasizes the need for 
reporting,  oversight  and  transparency,  but  it  needs 
more  concrete 
to  ensure  compliance  and 
accountability. What  is  measured  gets  done,  and  what 
is done must be measured. This is closely linked to my 
Government’s  commitment  to  working  for  a  more 
transparent and efficient aid system. 

International  resources  are,  and  will  continue  to 
be, important to meet the MDGs. Even more important 
are  domestic  resources,  such  as  taxes  in  developing 
countries themselves. National systems should generate 
resources so that teachers and midwives, for  example, 
can  be  paid  decent  salaries.  We  also  need  a  joint 
commitment  to  work  against  corruption.  Fraud  is 
unacceptable, and people should not have to bribe their 
way to access to basic services. 
to  higher 
targets 
28 

10-54304 



We  have  a  shared  responsibility  to  fulfil  our 
commitments to achieving all the MDGs by 2015. We 
need  to  deliver  on  our  promises.  This  is  true  of 
developed and developing countries alike. The Swedish 
Government intends to do its part and will continue to 
engage  with  civil  society  and  others.  I  call  upon 
colleagues  in  the  developed  world  to  honour  their 
official development assistance commitments now, just 
as I call upon colleagues in the developing countries to 
reinforce their ownership and leadership. There are five 
years to go. Let’s do it. 
The Acting  Chair:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Her 

Excellency  Senator  Maxine  McClean,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade of Barbados. 
Ms.  McClean  (Barbados):  I  join  with  fellow 

delegates  in  congratulating  Ambassador  Deiss  on  his 
efficient  leadership  of  the  General  Assembly.  The 
Barbados  delegation  also  commends  him  and  his 
Co-Chair  for  the  hosting  of  this  high-level  summit.  It 
serves as motivation to complete the journey started in 
2000.  We  all  committed  to  a  set  of  time-bound  and 
targeted  goals  aimed  at  eradicating  poverty  in  all  its 
forms,  namely,  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs). 

The summit is very timely. It has been convened 
during  the  most  severe  economic  crisis  faced  by  the 
international 
1930s. 
Simultaneously,  the  world  has  been  experiencing  the 
ravages  of 
in  recent 
memory,  which,  we  believe,  are  linked  to  climate 
change.  These  phenomena  have  either  slowed  the 
progress  of  some  Member  States  in  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  by  the  target  date  of 
2015 or, in other cases, undermined their capacity and 
capability to continue making the effort. 

I  must  make  a  case  for  Barbados  and  other 
countries  classified  as  either  high-  or  middle-income 
countries.  Through  struggle  and  hard  work,  we  have 
endeavoured over the years to place our countries on a 
path 
sustainable  development.  By  adopting 
strategies  such  as  universal  primary  health  care  and 
compulsory  education,  we  have  made  significant 
strides  that  have  allowed  us  to  pursue  an  MDG-plus 
strategy in some areas. Much remains to be done, and 
we cannot do it alone. 

Extreme poverty and hunger are barriers to global 
development.  In  Barbados,  while  poverty  is  relative, 
there are the peculiarities and vulnerabilities that come 
the  worst  natural  disasters 
community 
since 
the 
to 
A/65/PV.6
these  vulnerabilities, 
with  being  a  small  island  developing  State.  We  are 
exposed to natural disasters and the ravages of climate 
change.  As  open  economies,  we  are  susceptible  to 
external  shocks.  Given 
the 
question  of 
the  graduation  of  middle-income 
developing countries like Barbados must be revisited. 

The  eradication  of  poverty  is  a  priority  on  the 
development  agenda,  and,  in  the  present  economic 
environment, Barbados has worked with determination 
to  maintain  its  national  safety  net.  We  recognize  that 
the  effective  and  efficient  delivery  of  social  services 
will have a positive impact on the maintenance of our 
national safety net. We also appreciate the need for this 
as  we  seek  to  ensure  that  the  quality  of  life  and 
standard  of 
living 
to  which  we  have  become 
accustomed continue. 

Moreover,  Barbados  firmly  believes  that  the 
empowerment of the population is one way to enhance 
good  governance  as  we  strive  to  achieve  the  MDGs. 
Institutional  frameworks  have  thus  been  strengthened, 
with  the  goal  of  reducing  the  current  fragmentation 
among  our  social  services  agencies.  Our  goal  is  to 
ensure  the  seamless  and  timely  delivery  of  those 
services.  Evidence-based  policymaking 
is  being 
pursued and monitoring systems are being enhanced. 

The  following  initiatives  have  been  launched:  a 
country  assessment  of  living  conditions,  a  national 
database for client tracking and a universal intake form 
that  permits  client  assessment  by  a  single  agency  for 
all types of assistance sought. 
While  we  are  proud  of  these  initiatives,  we  are 

painfully aware that all these gains can be derailed by a 
hurricane or an earthquake or, as is the present case, by 
the  collapse  of  financial  markets.  That  is  why  the 
eradication  of  extreme  poverty  and  extreme  hunger 
cannot be seen in isolation from the other Goals. 

The Caribbean ranks second only to sub-Saharan 
Africa  in  terms  of  the  prevalence  of  HIV  and  AIDS. 
High  political  commitment  and  our  expanded 
multisectoral  response  strategy,  with  the  assistance  of 
the World Bank, have allowed persons living with HIV 
and AIDS universal access to treatment. Consequently, 
deaths  due  to  HIV  and  AIDS  have  been  significantly 
reduced  and  mother-to-child  transmission  is  almost  a 
thing  of  the  past.  There  has  been  an  increase  in 
knowledge  but  no  corresponding  behavioural  change. 
Infection  rates  remain  unacceptable,  raising  questions 
10-54304 

29 
the 

treatment 
there 
is  need 
sustainability  of  our 
A/65/PV.6 

concerning 
programmes.  

Ironically,  our  successes  in  these  areas  have 
brought with  them other difficulties. Our expenditures 
continue to rise, even though we are unable to readily 
access  grant  funding,  given  our  categorization  as  a 
high/middle-income  country.  We  have  redoubled  our 
efforts  at  prevention,  recognizing  that  those  affected 
fall  within  the  age  cohort  of  15  to  49,  the  bedrock  of 
the labour force. In addition, women are being infected 
at a faster rate than men. 
As stated by the Joint United Nations Programme 

on  HIV/AIDS, 
for  a  prevention 
revolution, since prolonging life is not the only goal in 
combating  the  HIV  and  AIDS  pandemic.  Targeted 
attention is being paid to several population segments, 
including  persons  with  disabilities,  particularly  those 
who  are  mentally  challenged.  The  Ministry  of  Social 
Care,  Constituency  Empowerment,  Urban  and  Rural 
Development  and  the  Ministry  of  Education  and 
Human  Resource  Development  are  collaborating  to 
prepare manuals in language easily understood by this 
target group. Connect Barbados, a public sector-private 
sector  partnership,  is  converting  current  literature  on 
HIV  and AIDS  into  Braille,  thus  making  it  accessible 
to those who are blind or visually impaired. However, 
high-risk  groups  are  yet  to  be  targeted  with  the  same 
intensity. 

There is also the increasing incidence of lifestyle 
diseases:  diabetes,  hypertension  and  cardiovascular 
disease, for example. Education, promotion of physical 
activity  and  good  nutrition  are  being  pursued. 
Government  is  challenged  however,  to  deliver  the 
necessary therapies and medical procedures. It also has 
to  address  the  high  morbidity  costs  associated  with 
these  non-communicable  diseases.  Together, 
these 
challenge  Government’s  development  programme.  We 
therefore  still  have  a  long  way  to  go,  if  we  are  to 
achieve  MDG  6,  which  relates  to  combating  HIV  and 
AIDS and other diseases. 

environmental 
sustainability.  In  2002,  Barbados  finalized  a  sustainable 
development  policy.  We  have  embarked  on  greening 
the  economy  and  are  exploring  the  use  of  alternative 
energy,  utilizing,  for  example,  wind  farms  and  solar 
energy. Incentives are in place to encourage the use of 
these  alternatives.  However,  these  initiatives  call  for 
We  need 
also 
to 
address 
30 

significant  capital  investment,  which  will  impede 
implementation. 

Closely  linked  to  this  is  the  need  to  address 
climate  change.  The  Barbados  Programme  of  Action, 
crafted  at  the  Global  Conference  on  the  Sustainable 
Development  of  Small  Island  Developing  States,  held 
at  Bridgetown,  Barbados,  in  1994,  identified  this  as 
one  of  the  critical  areas  to  be  addressed  in  ensuring 
sustainable  economic  development  in  the  Caribbean 
region.  It  was  reiterated  then,  and  the  point  continues 
to be made, that the impact of climate change can have 
a  devastating  effect  on  all  economic  sectors  and,  by 
extension,  on  human  development.  In  light  of  this, 
Barbados  has  continued  to  shore  up  its  capacity  for 
natural disaster management. 

Barbados is the fifteenth most densely populated 
country in the world. This places tremendous pressure 
on land and  other resources as well as  on the demand 
for  housing.  The  Government  of  Barbados  has  thus 
prioritized  housing  and  is  currently  addressing  this 
need,  especially  for  citizens  in  the  lower  economic 
strata. 
In  my  presentation,  I  have  highlighted  some 

efforts  being  undertaken  by  Barbados  to  mitigate  the 
variables which threaten to derail the attainment of the 
MDGs. We recognize that if the MDGs are to be fully 
achieved,  Goal  8  must  be  operationalized.  The  global 
partnership of which it speaks must be effective. 

Barbados  therefore  calls  for  a  review  of  the 
criteria used to classify countries and their implications 
for  extending support to  countries like  ours. Barbados 
also  calls  for  a  forging  of  partnerships  between  South 
and  South  and  South  and  North,  as  these  are  the  only 
avenues available to achieve the MDGs and to lay the 
foundation for comprehensive global development. 
The  Acting  Chair:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency Mr. Osman Mohammed Saleh, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Eritrea. 
Mr.  Saleh  (Eritrea):  Five  years  before  the  target 

date  of  2015,  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  are  begging  to  be  achieved,  and  I  stand  here 
today to challenge the Assembly to achieve these Goals 
that  should  and  can  be  achieved  with  renewed 
commitment and by refocusing our action over the next 
five years. That makes this High-level Plenary Meeting 
so important. I wish to also congratulate the Co-Chairs, 
on behalf of the Eritrean delegation, on presiding over 
10-54304 
tirelessly 
to  give  us 


this historic gathering to address the challenges and to 
get back on track to achieve the MDGs by 2015. 

At this juncture, I wish to thank Ambassador Paul 
Badji  of  Senegal  and  Ambassador  Carsten  Staur  of 
Denmark  who,  in  their  capacities  as  co-facilitators, 
worked 
the  draft  outcome 
document before us today in document A/65/L.1. They 
did  an  excellent  job  indeed  and  deserve  our  deep 
appreciation. 

The  MDGs  are  the  most  unifying  goals  in  the 
United  Nations  system. Therefore,  the  achievement  of 
the MDGs should continue to remain the top priority of 
the  development  agenda.  We  should  stay  the  course 
and press on with what we started at the beginning of 
the  millennium.  Let  us  keep  the  promises  we  made  at 
the  Millennium  Summit  in  September  2000.  If  we  do 
not  deliver  on  those  promises  come  2015,  we  will  be 
terribly  failing  the  people,  who  are  looking  to  us,  and 
the credibility of our multilateralism will be adversely 
affected. That is why my delegation considers that we 
must challenge ourselves at this juncture. 

I  wish  to  draw  the  attention  of  the Assembly  to 
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  Report  2007, 
published by the United Nations, which stated  

“that the MDGs will be attained only if concerted 
additional  action 
immediately  and 
sustained  until  2015.  All  stakeholders  need  to 
fulfil,  in  their  entirety,  the  commitments  they 
made 
the  Millennium  Declaration  and 
subsequent pronouncements”. 
taken 
is 
in 
Therefore, we should remain committed. 

My  own  country,  Eritrea,  is  committed,  and  it  is 
doing  its  best  to  achieve  the  MDGs  by  2015.  It  has 
invested  hundreds  of  millions  of  dollars,  especially  in 
infrastructure for food security to make hunger history. 
In  its  first  national  millennium  development  report  of 
November 2006, Eritrea asserted that it was on track to 
achieve the goals relating to gender equality in primary 
education,  child  health,  maternal  health,  HIV/AIDS, 
malaria  and  other  major  diseases  and  access  to  safe 
water.  The  second  national  report,  which  will  be 
published  in  the  coming  weeks,  updates  the  progress 
Eritrea  has  made  towards  the  achievement  of  the 
MDGs since  1995. In my brief statement, I will focus 
on  four  areas:  health,  education,  gender  equality  and 
the environment. 
A/65/PV.6

In the sphere of health, as we all know, three out 
of the eight MDGs and six out of the 17 targets directly 
relate to health. My statement discusses  where Eritrea 
is  at  this  juncture  with  respect  to  the  MDGs  and  their 
targets  and  indicators.  Nine  indicators  have  been  used 
to monitor progress made in the health sector between 
1993-1995  and  2010.  I  am  pleased  to  report  that 
remarkable  progress  has  been  made  in  most  areas  of 
health  during  the  last  15  years  in  Eritrea.  The  under-
five  mortality,  infant  mortality  and  maternal  mortality 
rates  have  declined  between  1993-1995  and  2010  by 
53.7  per  cent,  41.7  per  cent  and  51.3  per  cent, 
respectively. 

This progress in the health sector has come about 
as  a  result  of  the  Government’s  heavy  investment,  in 
cooperation with some partners, in the construction of 
new  health  facilities,  the  upgrading  and  rehabilitating 
of  existing  facilities  and  the  provision  of  equipment, 
drugs  and  other  supplies.  Perhaps  the  most  important 
investment  the  Government  has  made  in  order  to 
achieve these results is in the area of human resources 
development. At present, 75 per cent of the population 
has  access  to  health  care  within  a  10  kilometre  radius 
as  opposed  to  40  per  cent  at  the  time  of  liberation  in 
1991.  Immunization  coverage  for  the  third  dose  of 
combined diphtheria, pertussis, tetanus and hepatitis B 
vaccine  for  children  between  12  and  23  months  is  at 
over  90  per  cent.  Eritrea  is  certified  for  eliminating 
tetanus  and  being  a  polio-free  country.  HIV/AIDS 
prevalence was estimated to be 2.4 per cent in 2002. At 
the present time it is down to 0.7 per cent, which is a 
71 per cent decrease in this killer disease. 

As  concerns  education,  upon  Eritrea’s  liberation 
in May 1991, my Government placed education among 
the  top  priorities  for  the  country.  Eritrea  strongly 
believes  that  education  is  essential  for  the  overall 
sustainable development of the nation. On this premise, 
my  Government  made  education  free  to  all  from 
primary 
levels.  Our  education  sector 
development  programme  outlined  in  2005  represented 
a significant step forward for the education sector since 
it  advanced  a  comprehensive  approach  to  improve 
access  to  basic,  adult,  general  and  technical  and 
vocational  education.  In  this  connection,  Eritrea  has 
made 
rehabilitating  and 
expanding the education sector in the past 20 years. 

Two indicators, net primary school enrolment and 
literacy  rate  of  ages  15  to  24,  have  been  used  to 
monitor  progress  in  education.  The  indicators  show 
significant  progress 
tertiary 
in 
to 
10-54304 

31 

A/65/PV.6 

that huge advances have been achieved in enrolment in 
elementary  school  education.  It  rose  from  30  per  cent 
in  1993-1995  to  56.2  per  cent  in  2010,  an  increase  of 
87.3 per cent. In the same period, it is also heartening 
to see the literacy rate of 15- to 24-year-olds reaching 
85.2  per  cent.  Despite  this  gain,  however,  the  area  of 
education still remains a  challenge to the Government 
and certainly more resources will be needed to enhance 
access to education.  

Participation  in  education  is,  nevertheless,  not 
determined  solely  by  expanding  access  to  education. 
Whether  or  not  communities  take  advantage  of  the 
increased opportunities is also influenced by a number 
of other determinants, including economic, cultural and 
religious  factors.  For  example,  the  cultural  prejudice 
against  women’s  education 
is  a  well-established 
phenomenon in many societies in the world, especially 
in the developing ones. 

In  the  matter  of  gender  equality,  significant 
progress  has  been  made  at  all  three  levels  of  the 
educational 
ladder  —  elementary,  middle  and 
secondary  education  —  and  in  literacy.  The  ratio  of 
girls to boys declines as we move up the three levels of 
education. The ratio for primary education has gone up 
from 80 per cent in 1993-1995 to 96.4 per cent in 2010, 
an increase of 16.4 per cent. 

As to the environment, the number of people with 
sustainable  access  to  improved  sources  of  water  has 
increased from 21.7 per cent in 1993-1995 to 57.9 per 
cent at the present time. This is an increase of 167 per 
cent.  Eritrea  being  a  non-oil  producing  country,  more 
than three quarters of its population uses solid forms of 
energy.  This  presents  not  only  a  major  threat  to  the 
environment  but  also  a  serious  constraint  to  the 
country’s development efforts. Modest gains have been 
made in sanitation. A lot more needs to be done in this 
vital area. 

In conclusion, it is this delegation’s fervent hope 
that  the  Member  States,  the  United  Nations  agencies 
and  the  international  community  gathered  here  work 
together,  in  true  partnership,  to  make  the  MDGs  a 
success. Then and only then will we be able to see the 
accomplishment  of  a  purpose  we  all  can  be  proud  of. 
Let us go to work and make it happen. 
The Acting Chair: The Assembly will now hear 

an address by His Excellency Mr. Nyan Win, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Union of Myanmar. 
Mr.  Win  (Myanmar):  Since  the  adoption  of  the 

Millennium Declaration in 2000, we have spent almost 
one  decade  working  for  the  implementation  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). Yet, progress 
towards reaching them remains uneven and varies from 
region to region. With only five years to go, we need to 
step up our efforts to achieve the goals set for 2015. 

While  national  governments  have  the  primary 
responsibility  to  ensure  progress,  the  international 
community must help by creating an environment that 
will enable developing countries to make firmer strides 
in  their  road  to  development.  In  this  regard,  we  share 
the  view  of  the  Group  of  77  that,  without  substantial 
international  support,  many  of  the  MDGs  will  likely 
remain  unfulfilled  in  many  developing  countries  by 
2015. 

I am pleased to note that our own region, the Asia 
Pacific,  has  been  able  to  make  significant  progress 
towards  achieving  the  MDGs.  However,  not  all  the 
developing  countries  in  the  region  are  making  strong 
progress  towards  all  the  targets.  Some  are  facing 
challenges in attaining these goals. On the other hand, 
despite the economic slowdown and challenges, we are 
encouraged  to  see  the  developing  world  being  on  the 
right  track  to  meet  the  poverty  reduction  target  by 
2015. 

In  Myanmar,  the  Government  is  striving  to 
promote  better  living  standards  for  its  people  through 
the  implementation  of  its  national  development  plan, 
which  is  inextricably  linked  to  the  MDGs.  The  MDG 
targets  have  been  accorded  priority  in  the  context  of 
national  development  and  poverty  alleviation.  The 
national plan focuses on the promotion of the equitable 
and  balanced  socio-economic  development  of  both 
rural and urban areas. The three ongoing development 
programmes  — 
the  border  areas  development 
programme, the 24 special development zones and the 
integrated  rural  development  plan  —  have  been 
incorporated  into  the  national  plan  of  action  for  the 
MDGs. The results from those programmes encompass 
a wide range of MDG targets. 

In  ensuring  environmental  sustainability,  my 
country  has  been  formulating  Myanmar  Agenda  21, 
with 
integration  of 
environmental  sustainability.  Reserved  forest  areas  in 
Myanmar increased from 38,876 square miles in 1998 
to 62,002 square miles in 2009. Moreover, recently, on 
3  August,  the  Myanmar  Government  designated  the 
the  aim  of 
facilitating 
the 
32 

10-54304 
is 
focused 
for  human 
Despite 
in  our  drive 


Hukaung  valley  as  an  inviolable  wildlife  sanctuary. 
The  valley  is  now  the  world’s  largest  tiger  reserve, 
stretching 6,748 square miles inhabited by a number of 
endangered mammal, bird and plant species. 

the  challenges,  Myanmar  has  made 
progress  in  achieving  most  of  the  eight  MDGs  to 
varying  degrees,  especially  in  such  areas  as  poverty 
alleviation,  food  security  and 
the  promotion  of 
food  security 
education  and  health.  Myanmar’s 
programme,  which 
on 
expanding 
agricultural,  livestock  and  fisheries  production,  has 
enabled  us  not  only  to  achieve  not  only  food  self-
sufficiency but also to contribute to fulfilling the needs 
of others in the region and beyond. 

Education  occupies  a  place  of  high  priority  in 
Myanmar 
resources 
development. A  large  number  of  school,  colleges  and 
universities  have  been  expanded  to  various  regions  to 
provide  better  access 
to  education.  The  school 
enrolment  rate  has  been  dramatically  increased,  to 
98.13 per cent in 2009, thanks to nationwide activities, 
such as the All School-age Children in School Project. 
The Literacy rate has also grown, to 94.83 per cent in 
2009.  In  term  of  gender  equality,  the  ratio  of  girls  to 
boys in primary education  increased to  97.43 per  cent 
in 2009.  

Similar  progress  has  also  been  recorded  on 
maternal health and mortality, which may be attributed 
to  our  30-year  national  health  plan,  which  accords 
priority  to  the  eradication  of  major  diseases  such  as 
HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis.  

The  under-five  mortality  rate  has  also  been 
reduced by half, from 130 deaths per 1,000 live births 
in 1990 to 66.1 per 1,000 live births in 2003. It is still 
declining. We are also on course to achieving the MDG 
target  of  a  reduction  of  maternal  mortality  by  three 
quarters. 

International assistance can serve as an important 
catalyst  for  developing  countries’  efforts  to  achieve 
their  development  goals.  Therefore,  comprehensive 
fulfilment 
of 
assistance 
commitments, 
investment  flows,  market 
access and resolution of debt problems are essential to 
enable  the  developing  countries  to  realize  the  MDGs 
targets. 

In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  assure  members  that 
Myanmar will continue to strive to achieve the MDGs 
official 
increased 
development 
A/65/PV.6
Mr.  Kelley  (Nicaragua)  (spoke 
through  our  national  plan  and  strategy.  At  the  same 
time, Myanmar stands ready to work more closely with 
the  United  Nations  and  international  development 
partners to  fully attain the  MDG targets. We sincerely 
hope  that  this  High-level  Meeting  will  come  up  with 
new  approaches  and  concrete  steps  to  accelerate 
progress on achieving the MDGs in the next five years. 
The  Acting  Chair:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Paul  Oquist  Kelley,  Minister  of 
National Policies of the Republic of Nicaragua. 
in  Spanish): 

Attaining the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 
means  solving  technical,  administrative  and  financial 
problems and problems related to political will. It also 
means  facing  up  to  structural  challenges  such  the 
tendency of income and wealth to be concentrated in a 
few  hands  under  the  current  economic  and  social 
model.  This  has  grown  worse  since  1980,  when  neo-
liberalism  arrived  and  the  Washington  Consensus 
pushed  for  deregulation,  privatization  and  minimizing 
the role for the State, including its role in distribution. 
The  result  has  been  greater  inequality  between  and 
within  countries.  This  is  particularly  notable  in  Latin 
American and the Caribbean, which is the region with 
the  world’s  highest  level  of  inequality.  But  it  has  also 
affected developed countries: in fact, in real terms, an 
average  working  family  in  the  United  States  had  a 
larger  income  in  1980  than  it  does  today,  leading  to 
imbalances 
the  financial  and 
economic crisis. 

In Nicaragua, extreme poverty rose between 2001 
and 2005, but since 2007 the Government of President 
Daniel  Ortega  Saavedra  has  succeeded  in  reducing 
extreme  poverty  despite 
the  worst  financial  and 
economic  crisis  of  world  capitalism  since  the  Great 
Depression. Today’s official figure for extreme poverty 
is  now  14.6  per  cent,  halfway  to  the  Goal.  But  an 
independent  study,  financed  by  the  Netherlands  and 
Switzerland  with  technical  assistance  from  the  World 
Bank,  found  that  in  2009  Nicaragua  had  already 
attained  the  Goal  1  target,  with  extreme  poverty  at  a 
figure of 9.7 per cent. And in a 2010 report, the Food 
and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations and 
the World  Food  Programme  found  that  Nicaragua  had 
met Goal 1 in terms of reducing malnutrition. 

We  have  also  made  progress  on  all  other 
indicators apart from that relating to HIV/AIDS, which 
has  increased.  But  Nicaragua  continues  to  have  the 
that  contributed 
to 
10-54304 

33 
from 
the 
sucre, 
are 

through 
solidarity 
additional 
reduction.  Support 
A/65/PV.6 

lowest  HIV/AIDS  rate  in  Central America.  This  is  an 
international  problem  and  requires  greater  worldwide 
efforts if nations are to reach the Goal. 

Let  me  give  a  few  examples  of  how  our 
indicators  have  improved.  Illiteracy  fell  from  22  per 
cent  in  2006  to  3.3  per  cent  in  2009,  thanks  to  a 
campaign  using  the  successful  Cuban  model,  “Yo  sí 
puedo”  —  “Yes  I  Can”.  Maternal  and  infant  mortality 
rates have fallen and the malaria rate fell from 4.4 per 
100,000  inhabitants  in  the  baseline  year  to  1.1  today. 
Indeed,  there  have  been  no  deaths  from  malaria 
whatsoever in the past three years.  

Nicaragua has benefited from the most wonderful 
innovation  in  financing  of  the  century.  I  speak  of 
Venezuelan 
the  Petrocaribe 
agreements,  which  convert  half  of  the  hydrocarbon 
bills  of  poor  countries  into  long-term  soft  credit  for 
poverty 
the  Bolivarian 
Alliance  for  the  Peoples  of  Our  America  (ALBA) 
process,  the  Bank  of  ALBA  and  the  new  regional 
currency, 
innovative 
dimensions of this new alternative model of solidarity.  

These  are  examples  of  the  innovative  financing 
that  is  needed  if  we  are  to  meet  the  challenges  of 
reducing  poverty  and 
the 
consequences  of  climate  change  —  and  to  meet  them 
simultaneously. It has been estimated that an additional 
$50 billion in official development assistance would be 
needed  every  year  to  attain  the  MDGs  by  2015. 
However, under the present conditions that seems very 
unlikely.  Only  five  countries  provide  0.7  per  cent  of 
their  gross  domestic  product  as  official  development 
assistance today.  
At  the  beginning  of  this  conference  we  heard 

to  donor 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-Moon  appeal 
countries  not 
their  external  assistance 
because of the crisis. It could be more effective to issue 
$250  billion  in  Special  Drawing  Rights,  like  those 
funds that were so quickly approved and distributed to 
the  central  banks  of  the  world  in  2008  and  2009  in 
order  to  maintain  global  financial  liquidity.  Issuing 
such funds for the MDGs would show that reducing by 
half  extreme  poverty  worldwide  has  at  least  the  same 
priority as rescuing banks.  

We also need an inclusive struggle for the MDGs. 
In this connection, we welcome progress in the last two 
years  in  efforts  to  support  of  peace  and  prosperity  on 
the two sides of the Taiwan Strait, and we hope that the 
inequality  as  well  as 
to  reduce 
up, 
sum 
deregulation, 
United Nations will be able to find appropriate ways of 
enabling Taiwan to participate in this struggle in which 
we are all involved.  

The Government of President Comandante Daniel 
Ortega managed to reduce poverty by giving priority to 
the  production  of  micro-,  small  and  middle-sized 
businesses,  including  access  to  fair  credit,  seeds  and 
fertilizers.  Capital  was  provided  directly  to  women  in 
the  informal  sector  in  cities  and  to  women  in  rural 
areas.  The  Government  also  restored  the  human  and 
constitutional right to free education and public health, 
which  had  been  denied  because  of  cost-recovery 
policies  of  the  neo-liberal  Governments.  Similarly, 
public transport, water  and electricity  were subsidized 
for the urban poor, and low-income State workers were 
given vouchers from Christian, socialist and solidarity 
sources.  

privatization, 
To 
liberalization and minimization of the role of the State 
were  replaced  with  policies  that  facilitate  the  State’s 
role  in  promoting  development  and  redistributing 
income and consumption in direct support for the poor. 
The result has been a drop in the Gini coefficient from 
0.41 to 0.36 during the period of 2005 to 2009, giving 
Nicaragua  the  lowest  level  of  inequality  in  Central 
America.  

those  achievements,  we  need 
economic  growth.  The  good  news  is  that  Nicaraguan 
exports to date are 30 per cent higher than they were at 
this  time  last  year.  However,  there  are  serious  threats 
for  us  and  for  everybody,  such  as  a  double-dip 
recession or a lost decade for many countries in terms 
of  repaying  their  debts  —  such  as  what  happened  to 
Latin America  and  the  Caribbean  in  the  1980s,  when 
the  regional  economy  shrank  1.9  per  cent  throughout 
the entire decade. 

We all need global economic recovery to achieve 
the  MDGs.  It  should  be  clear  already  that  that  is  not 
possible  only  through  public  expenditure,  and  soon  it 
will  be  clear  that  this  also  applies  to  savings.  Instead, 
we face various massive imbalances that show there is 
a  need  to  change  the  current  financial  and  economic 
structure.  That  is  because  globalization  happened  so 
quickly,  the  market  was  so  dominant,  the  State  so 
weak, regulation so impotent, speculation so profitable, 
the virtual economy so much more diverse than the real 
economy,  financial  capital  so  hegemonic,  credit  so 
limited, investment so short-term, high unemployment 
To  maintain 
34 

10-54304 
in 
lies 
if  we  are 
The  solution 
inclusiveness  and 


so  persistent,  trade  imbalances  so  chronic,  debt  so 
huge,  the  issuing  of  money  so  astronomical,  the 
principal 
reserve  currency  so  undisciplined  and 
international  political  power  so  concentrated.  Those 
factors  are  interrelated  and  form  vicious  circles  that 
impede  the  transition  to  the  new  model  that  is  so 
urgently  needed 
to  achieve  economic 
recovery  and  reduce  the  structural  inequality  that  has 
contributed to the crisis.  

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  state  that  if  these 
issues are not addressed, achieving the MDGs by 2015, 
or any other date, will be in jeopardy. The same can be 
said  of  the  chances  of  reaching  an  inclusive  and 
binding global agreement on climate change within the 
the  United  Nations  Framework 
framework  of 
Convention  on  Climate  Change  and 
the  Kyoto 
Protocol.  

the 
democratization of international political and economic 
relations in order to achieve global peace and stability 
with  human  rights  and  social  justice  and  without 
poverty — in other words, the very purposes for which 
the United Nations was established.  
The  Acting  Chair:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Edward  Nalbandyan,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Armenia. 
Mr.  Nalbandyan  (Armenia):  I  would  like  to 

warmly  congratulate  Mr.  Deiss  on  his  election  as  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth 
session  and  assure  him  that Armenia  will  continue  to 
bring  its  constructive  contribution  to  the  Assembly’s 
work. I would also like to thank the outgoing President, 
Mr. Treki, for his work during the previous session. 

the  new 
millennium,  we  affirmed  our  collective  responsibility 
to uphold the principles of human dignity, equality and 
equity at the global level, and we identified those goals 
that should be achieved by each and every country by 
2015 in order to have a more peaceful, prosperous and 
just  world  for  the  coming  generations.  It  was  the 
uneven  economic  and  social  development  that  was 
considered  to  be  our  biggest  challenge,  with  its  dire 
implications  for  the  overall  security  of  human  beings 
and  society  as  a  whole.  Subsequent  developments, 
when  unprecedented  security  challenges  overtook  our 
agenda, once again exposed the truth of the postulation 
that development is freedom. 
Ten  years  ago,  at 
the  dawn  of 
A/65/PV.6
are, 
of 
recent 
the 
realities 
years  made 
certain  geopolitical 

Today, we are discussing how successful we have 
been in bridging the gaps and building on the progress 
made  towards  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. As noble and far-reaching as those 
Goals 
create 
impediments  on  the  way  to  completing  the  realization 
of those aims.  

When we embark on the last five-year leg of our 
development  commitments,  we  have  to  understand 
clearly all the security implications of our actions, both 
nationally  and  internationally.  The  food  and  financial 
crises 
increased 
interconnectedness  and  interdependence  in  today’s 
globalized world more obvious. All countries were hit 
by  their  impact,  and  Armenia  was  no  exception.  Yet 
despite  all  these  difficulties,  we  continue  to  proceed 
steadily  towards  the  realization  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

Armenia  embarked  on  implementation  of  the 
Goals  by  launching  sound  economic  reforms  and 
nationalizing  the  Goals  by  identifying  16  targets  that 
corresponded 
to  country-specific  priorities,  which 
emphasized the need for ensuring sustainable economic 
growth  through  reliance  on  competition,  innovation 
and  equal  opportunity  for  all. We  have  also  promoted 
reduction  in  income  differentials  and  equality  in 
regional  development  through  an  in-depth  reform  of 
territorial  administration,  developing  effective  public 
governance and continuing the fight against corruption. 
Furthermore, Armenia has exerted additional efforts on 
relevant  programmes  by  promoting  education  and 
science,  strengthening  the  social  security  system  and 
expanding targeted programmes, with a focus on health 
care, pensions and gender equality. 

The  international  community  will  be  able  to 
achieve  its  goals  set  for  2015  only  through  concerted 
and coordinated efforts. This is the path to follow in all 
parts of the world, including our region. However, the 
overall  regional  situation  does  not  allow  for  the  full 
utilization  of  all  of  the  economic  advantages  of  the 
South Caucasus. Existing resources  are  being diverted 
from  the  development  goals.  Closed  borders  and  the 
its 
continuing  blockade  of  Armenia  by 
neighbours 
to 
accelerate 
development both nationally and regionally.  

the  past  20  years  clearly 
demonstrates what Armenia has stated all along. There 
will  be  no  possibility  of  comprehensive  development 
opportunities 
record  of 
two  of 
curtail 
The 
10-54304 

35 

lines  of  communication  and 
A/65/PV.6 

for  any  of  the  countries  in  the  South  Caucasus  if  it 
comes at the expense of the others, and the creation of 
dividing lines would be devastating for the region and 
increase the risk of instability.  

Regional  cooperation  is  the  only  viable  path  to 
pursue,  and  we  have  advocated  for  strong  regional 
cooperation  schemes.  In  this  regard,  open  borders, 
linked 
interrelated 
economic systems will be crucial. Yet, this concept has 
yet  to  gain  ground  and  understanding  in  some  of  our 
neighbours’ policies and approaches. 

Recognizing  that  security  and  development  are 
closely  intertwined,  in  the  Millennium  Declaration 
Governments  pledged  to  “spare  no  effort  to  free  our 
peoples  from  the  scourge  of  war,  whether  within  or 
between  States”  (resolution  55/2,  para.  8).  In  that 
context, 
the  proliferation  of  arms  and  weapons 
continues  to  pose  a  threat  not  only  to  peace  and 
security,  but  also  and  increasingly  to  economic  and 
social  development.  It  is  unfortunate  that  our  region 
faces that danger. 

Azerbaijan  continues  to  reject  the  proposal  to 
come to an agreement on the non-use or threat of force. 
This  goes  against  the  underlying  principles  of  the 
United Nations, an Organization whose founders came 
together  to  save  succeeding  generations  from  the 
scourge of war. Today, we witness militaristic stances, 
multifold 
in  military  budgets,  warlike 
that 
rhetoric  and  provocations  masterminded  by 
country,  which  has 
to 
the 
establishment  of  lasting  peace  and  stability  in  the 
region,  which 
is  a  precondition  for  prospective 
development. 

While we register our accomplishments and share 
our concerns, there remain people that fall through the 
cracks of the  international community’s  attention. The 
people  of  Nagorno-Karabakh  are  doing  their  best  to 
provide  for  better  living  conditions  and  the  protection 
of  all  human  rights  in  their  territory,  yet  they  do  so 
without  the  support  of  the  international  community. 
Nagorno-Karabakh 
relevant 
assistance  programmes.  Unless  we  learn  to  undo  the 
harm caused  to innocent people here and there by our 
inaction, we will not be in a position to report that all 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  have  been 
achieved  and  that  equality  and  equity  have  been 
attained at the global level. 
created  obstacles 
continues 
increases 
await 
to 
towards 
Frattini
to  contribute  positively 

With the adoption of the draft outcome document 
of  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  on  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (A/65/L.1), we hope to bridge the 
gaps  in  our  development  agendas,  boost  our  efforts  to 
overcome  the  challenges  on  the  path  to  the  full 
realization of the Millennium Goals, and steadily chart 
our way to a better, secure and prosperous future. 

Pursuant  to  resolutions  36/67  and  55/282,  today 
we  mark  the  International  Day  of  Peace,  which  is 
devoted  to  commemorating  and  strengthening  the 
ideals of peace both within and among all nations and 
peoples  and  is  observed  as  a  day  of  global  ceasefire 
and non-violence. On this special day, the Republic of 
Armenia  also  celebrates  its  independence.  In  light  of 
today’s importance and the sense of added duty that it 
places  upon  us,  I  would  like  to  state  that  Armenia  is 
determined 
the 
achievement  of  our  common  noble  goals  of  peace, 
justice, liberty and equitable prosperity. 
The  Acting  Chair:  I  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Franco  Frattini,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Italy. 
The  Millennium 
(Italy): 

Development  Goals  (MDGs)  provide  us  with  a  road 
map  we  must  follow  to  assure  a  better  future  in  2015 
and beyond — a world that is less unjust, less divided 
and 
less  unstable.  The  MDGs  have  provided  a 
framework 
international 
stakeholders  in  development  and  helped  to  improve 
living conditions in the poorest countries. At the same 
time, not all of the MDG promises have been kept and 
major  international  challenges  have  emerged  in  the 
past 10 years. 

From now on, we need to multiply our efforts to 
meet  the  MDGs  and  to  focus  on  achieving  concrete 
results.  With  the  emergence  of  new  stakeholders  and 
global  challenges,  development  can  come  about  only 
through  shared  responsibility  and  a  broader  array  of 
initiatives.  Global  challenges  require  ambition  and  a 
global vision. 
Reports  of  the  Secretary-General  and  the  United 

Nations  Development  Programme 
that 
progress has been made and that the MDGs are within 
reach, although much remains to be done, especially in 
sub-Saharan Africa,  the  least  developed  countries  and 
fragile  States.  The  donor  community  will  have  to 
accelerate  the  MDG  process  by  forging  a  broader 
and 
partnership  with 
the  efforts  of  all 
non-governmental 
confirm 
actors 
Mr. 
for 
36 

10-54304 
for 
their 
reconsideration  of 


the  primary 
developing  countries,  which  hold 
responsibility 
development. 
own 
Harmonization,  coordination  and  aid  effectiveness 
comprise the ruling principles of our action.  

Ten years after their adoption, it is clear that the 
MDGs  were  never  meant  to  be  exclusive  strategies. 
The  MDGs  are  a  formula  to  shape  a  partnership  for 
development  beyond  the  traditional  pattern  of  donor-
receiver  relations.  Far  too  often,  we  have  found 
ourselves  trapped  in  a  statistical  logic  consisting  of 
percentages  and  figures  rather 
than  policies  and 
concrete results. 
The  Millennium  Development  Goals  philosophy 

entails  a  major 
the  entire 
international  agenda,  including  development,  good 
governance and taxation, better economic and financial 
regulation, a more equitable distribution of wealth and 
tackling  climate  change  and  market  access.  Providing 
these  and  other  global  public  goods 
is  closely 
interlinked  with  development  goals.  Unless 
these 
policies  are  given  high  priority,  development  will  not 
be  sustainable  enough 
future 
turbulence  in  world  politics  and  the  international 
economy. 
This is all the more true in the light of the recent 

financial  crisis.  European 
financial  security  has 
teetered on the edge. Our Governments have had to fall 
short of their commitments to development because of 
financial 
budget 
requirements.  In  these  circumstances,  the  single  most 
useful thing Europe can do for developing countries is 
to put its own economy back on the path of sustainable 
growth  so  that  the  South  can  fully  benefit  from 
expanding  demand  in  the  North.  One-third  of  people 
living below the threshold of extreme poverty reside in 
fragile  and  post-conflict  States.  Hence,  the  role  of 
peace  and  stability  in  fighting  poverty  cannot  be 
denied. 

Italy is the sixth largest contributor to the United 
Nations regular and peacekeeping budgets, and in light 
of  the  priority  we  give  to  institution-building  and  to 
increasing  peace  and  stability  as 
the  basis  for 
sustainable  development,  we  are  one  of  the  largest 
contributors  of  peacekeeping  troops.  But  we  are  also 
convinced  that  development  is  still  the  result  of  deep 
transformation in society and of full respect for human 
rights.  
resist  possible 
in  Europe, 
constraints 
and, 
to 
A/65/PV.6
resolution  of 
the  achievement  of 
the  campaign  against 
through  a 

With  this  in  mind,  Italy  has  been  engaged, 
together  with  a  group  of  like-minded  countries,  in  the 
campaign  for 
the  elimination  of  female  genital 
mutilation.  Female  genital  mutilation  has  a  negative 
impact  on 
the  MDGs,  and 
specifically  Goals  3  and  5. We  are  fully  committed  to 
female  genital 
enhancing 
mutilation 
the  General 
Assembly. While speaking about gender issues, let me 
salute  with  satisfaction  the  appointment  of  Michelle 
Bachelet  as  the  head  of  the  United  Nations  Entity  for 
Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women. 

Mr. Ould Hadram (Mauritania), Vice-President of 
the General Assembly, took the Chair. 

Concluding  my  remarks,  Italy’s  entire  foreign 
policy is grounded in our constitutional values of peace 
and  justice  among  nations.  The  Italian  people  have 
always  been  and  still  are  on  the  side  of  development 
and solidarity. Our strategy is inspired by the principle 
of  aid  effectiveness  —  a  holistic  vision  of 
development.  I  would  like  to  point  out  that  food 
security continues to be a high political priority for my 
country. We  remain strongly committed  to the process 
that  was  initiated  during  the  Italian  presidency  of  the 
Group  of  Eight  (G8)  with  the  L’Aquila  Food  Security 
Initiative,  later  endorsed  by  the  Food  and Agriculture 
Organization of the United Nations in November 2009. 
It is those same principles that are now at the heart of 
the  much  needed  Global  Partnership  for  Agriculture, 
Food  Security  and  Nutrition,  to  which  we  are  firmly 
committed  in  order  to  achieve  a  new,  more  effective 
governance structure in global food security. 

We  have  been  active  in  the  field  of  innovative 
financial  resources,  encouraging  the  work  of  the 
Leading  Group 
for 
Development 
advanced  market 
commitments,  the  International  Finance  Facility  for 
Immunization  and  the  migrant  remittances  initiatives, 
all  discussed  in  2009  at  the  G8  summit  with  many 
African countries. 

Finally,  the  European  Union  positions  at  this 
High-Level Meeting, to which we have contributed, are 
a  call  for  more  action-oriented  solidarity  with  all  our 
partners  and  stakeholders  in  development.  Let  us  join 
efforts to ensure that the MDGs become a reality. 
The Acting Chair (spoke in Arabic): I now give 

the  floor  to  Mr.  Radosław  Sikorski,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Poland. 
Innovative  Financing 
supporting 
and 
on 
10-54304 

37 
track 
to  reach 
A/65/PV.6 

Mr. Sikorski (Poland): Time is ticking away for 

the  opportunity  to  honour  the  pledge  that  we  have 
made to reduce poverty in the world. With five years to 
go,  are  we  on 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals?  Well, 
there  has  been  some 
progress. The latest report of the Secretary-General on 
this  subject  (A/64/665)  gives  cause  for  optimism. The 
child  mortality  rate  has  fallen  by  28  per  cent.  The 
number  of  slum  dwellers  has  declined  by  6  per  cent. 
Nine  in  10  children  in  the  developing  countries  are 
now  enrolled  in  primary  education.  These  success 
stories  should  not,  however,  mask  the  reality  that 
unless  we  strengthen  our  political  will  and  take 
innovative policy steps, attaining the Millennium Goals 
will prove elusive.  
I  would  like  to  address  three  issues  that  I  think 

should inform our efforts in the future. First, we need 
to  raise  aid  effectiveness  and  strengthen  partnerships 
with the corporate and philanthropic sectors. Secondly, 
we must devote more attention to countries of conflict 
and  fragility.  And  thirdly,  we  must  acknowledge  the 
imperative  of  collectively  living  up  to  the  norms 
underlying the Millennium Development Goals. 

Thinking  how  we  could  improve  the  delivery  of 
assistance  and  strike  up  successful  partnerships,  the 
world’s  Governments  should  heed  the  example  of  the 
Bill  and  Melinda  Gates  Foundation,  for  instance.  It 
proves  that  an  institution  that  is  light  on  bureaucracy, 
accountable  and  willing  to  take  risks  for  the  sake  of 
trying  out  new  approaches  is  able  to  do  wonders. 
Projects  like  that,  or  the  revolutionary  concept  of 
microcredit  financing  pioneered  by  the  banker  of  the 
poor,  Nobel  Prize  laureate  Muhammad  Yunus,  also 
show 
social 
responsibility.  Microcredit  works  because  often  the 
only  handicap  a  budding  entrepreneur 
the 
developing world faces is access to a small amount of 
money for start-up business costs. By teaming up with 
the private sector, Governments may help to empower 
people who desperately desire to lift themselves out of 
poverty. 

We  also  need  to  pay  more  attention  to  countries 
of conflict and fragility, as they are the most off-track 
from the Millennium Development Goals. Afghanistan 
exemplifies  best  the  interconnection  between  security 
and  development  in  a  conflict-torn  country.  Without 
either,  stabilization  fails.  Two  months  ago,  when  I 
visited Polish troops and aid workers in Afghanistan, I 
had the opportunity to tour the province of Bamyan. I 
a  promising 
corporate 
face  of 
in 

through 
was  impressed  when  I  had  the  opportunity  to  speak 
with a female governor. I saw girls going to school and 
plenty  of  indicators  of  economic  growth.  The  overall 
record in that country is admittedly patchy, which is all 
the more reason to link better fulfilment of Millennium 
Development  Goals  with  post-conflict  rehabilitation 
efforts. 

Thirty  years  ago,  the  birth  of  the  10  million-
strong Solidarity movement showed that Poles can take 
matters into their own hands. In like manner, each State 
has  to  play  the  primary  role  in  stimulating  its  own 
development. The Polish people were helped by others, 
so  today  we  feel  obligated  to  extend  our  assistance  to 
those  less  fortunate.  The  greatest  Pole,  the  late  Pope 
John  Paul  II,  exhorted  us  to  assume  the  duty  of 
solidarity  for  the  benefit  of  peoples  that  aspire  to  full 
development. Through our renewed commitment to the 
Millennium Development Goals, we can heed his call. 

Indeed, Poland is trying to do its share. We have 
been  increasing  the  level  of  our  official  development 
assistance.  In  an  example  of  thinking  globally  and 
acting  regionally, 
the  European  Union’s 
Eastern  Partnership  initiative  we  are  helping  foster 
growth in Eastern Europe and the Caucasus. Although 
Poland 
to  development 
assistance,  our  ambition  is  to  live  up  to  the  solidarity 
for development ideal. Let us all turn this ideal into a 
reality. 
The Acting Chair (spoke in Arabic): I now give 

the  floor  to  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Marie-Josée  Jacobs, 
Minister 
and 
the  Grand  Duchy  of 
Humanitarian  Action  of 
Luxembourg. 
Ms.  Jacobs  (Luxembourg)  (spoke  in  French): 

Luxembourg  fully  associates  itself  with  the  statement 
made  yesterday  by  the  President  of  the  European 
Commission,  Mr.  José  Manuel  Barroso,  on  behalf  of 
the European Union. 
The  fight  against  poverty  is  a  long-term  effort, 

and the road to sustainable development is tortuous and 
paved  with  obstacles. This  week,  we  have  returned  to 
New York to affirm that the path we set out on 10 years 
ago  was  the  right  one,  to  conduct  an  honest  mid-term 
review  of  this  path,  and  to  reaffirm  our  political  will 
and commitment to our mission while recognizing the 
new global challenges before us. 
for  Development  Cooperation 
relative  newcomer 
is  a 
38 

10-54304 
the 
implementation  of 



We  do  this  on  the  basis  of  the  important  reports 
and  analyses  of  the  Secretary-General  and  United 
Nations  agencies  on 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  I  take  this 
opportunity to thank them warmly for these efforts. 

We live in an era in which life is accelerating at 
an  unprecedented  rate  throughout  the  world.  The 
impatience and doubt shown by some due to the lack of 
immediate  achievement  of  the  MDGs  are  ill-advised. 
Let us not be impatient, but persevere in our follow-up 
of ideas. 

That being said, I am the last to seek to hide the 
truth. The results of our collective action to implement 
the  MDGs  since  2000  are  mixed.  The  progress  made 
and the results obtained vary greatly depending on the 
sector,  continent,  region  and  even  within  countries 
themselves. That is why Luxembourg joins the ranks of 
those  calling  for  greater  efforts  in  the  sectors  and 
regions that are furthest behind. 

One  conclusion  is  clear.  We,  the  international 
community — industrialized, emerging and developing 
countries  alike  —  have  not  done  nearly  as  much  to 
effectively  fight  maternal  and  infant  mortality  as  we 
have to raise primary school enrolment figures. Is this 
by  choice,  out  of  incompetence  or  for  lack  of  means? 
We  will  not  answer  that  question  today,  although  it 
deserves  serious  consideration.  It  is  all  the  same  a 
bitter  and  blunt  conclusion  that  compels  us  to  step  up 
our  efforts,  especially  since  we  know  perfectly  well 
that gender equality and women’s and children’s health 
are  objectives  that  have  an  unrivalled  potential  to 
trigger  further  progress  in  the  implementation  of  the 
other goals to which we are attached. 

This  is  why  I  salute  the  Secretary-General’s 
initiative  to  launch  the  Global  Strategy  for  Women’s 
and  Children’s  Health.  It  is  also  why  I  welcome  the 
creation  of  UN  Women,  which  promises  more 
structured,  more  coordinated  and  thus  more  effective 
global action in this important field. In that connection, 
I congratulate Mrs. Bachelet on her nomination to lead 
that  new  United  Nations  entity.  Luxembourg  will 
continue to be a steadfast partner and contributor in the 
struggle to implement Goals 3, 4 and 5, as well as the 
objectives  in  the  field  of  health  in  general,  including 
through 
to  non-communicable 
diseases. 
The mission we want to accomplish by 2015 has 

been  considerably  complicated  by  new  realities  that 
increased  attention 
A/65/PV.6
free  us 
natural 
That 
awareness 
boundaries.  This 
were unknown, and even unimaginable,  in 2000.  I  am 
referring  to  the  new  global  challenges  arising  from 
growing  insecurity,  from  the  pernicious  effects  of  the 
global  economic  crisis,  especially 
in  developing 
countries,  from  climate  change,  and  from  migration. 
There  is  only  one  possible  answer  in  this  respect.  No 
one  has  ever  claimed  that  things  would  be  easy.  For 
Luxembourg, that is no reason to give up. 

The world is changing, sometimes because of our 
own  irresponsible  actions.  New  challenges,  however, 
do  not 
from  our  past  promises  and 
commitments,  especially  since  we  are  all  affected  by 
these  new  challenges,  which  know  no  administrative 
and 
is 
unprecedented,  and  thus  precious.  We  now  have  to 
react  appropriately.  The  times  of  cubicled  reflections 
and actions, with everybody in their own little realm of 
competences  and  responsibilities,  have  to  end  if  we 
want to be effective. 

is  why 
the  Luxembourg  Government 
calls —  at  the  national  level,  within  the  European 
Union,  at  the  United  Nations  and  through  its  normal 
relations  with  its  developing  partner  countries  —  for 
responses that rely on the added value of a regional and 
trans-sectoral  approach.  Indeed,  in  the  Sahel  region, 
local development suffers from the combined effects of 
food  insecurity  due  to  climate  change  and  from 
criminal  and  terrorist  attacks.  In  the  Pacific  and  the 
Caribbean,  the  hope  for  foreign  direct  investment  is 
waning with the rise of sea levels and the worsening of 
hurricanes. 

Migration  flows  have  reached  unprecedented 
levels  and,  far  from  raising  the  standards  of  living  of 
those who leave, on the one hand they drain part of the 
work  force  from  the  countries  of  origin  and,  on  the 
other,  they  create  administrative  and  human  dilemmas 
for the countries of destination. 

intertwined 
challenges  do  not  have  to  be  perfectly  integrated,  but 
the  better  we  coordinate  them,  across  and  beyond  the 
different areas of competence, the more effective they 
become.  In  this  respect,  it  is  not  only  possible  but 
imperative to be creative. 

The  long  way  ahead  and  the  huge  task  that 
remains to be accomplished force us, North and South 
alike,  to  use  every  means  at  our  disposal  to  start 
keeping our promises to the poorest and, for the sake of 
each and every one of us, to consider new partnerships, 
to  complex  and 
Our 
responses 
10-54304 

39 

and  within 
A/65/PV.6 

especially with civil society and the private sector; new 
alternative  and  sustainable  sources  of  financing  for 
development;  and  mutually  beneficial  channels  to 
organize  the  transfer  of  funds,  goods  and  services  in 
the context of a globalization that benefits all. 

Luxembourg has been committed to this for years 
as  a  trustworthy  partner  and  donor,  allocating  1  per 
income 
cent  of 
to  official 
its  gross  national 
development  assistance.  This 
is  what  we  have 
advocated  in  our  presidency  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission, and what we continue to advocate in the 
European Union and in the Organisation for Economic 
CoOperation and Development. It is what will continue 
to guide us in Cancún later this year and as a member 
of the Security Council, if we are given the opportunity 
to hold a non-permanent seat in 2013-2014. 

Luxembourg  does  not  make  such  promises  in  a 
vacuum. We have ourselves in the past benefited from 
international  solidarity,  regional  integration  and  full 
participation  in  the  global  economy,  and  are  therefore 
fully  aware  that  sustainable  development  is  never 
achieved  for  good,  that  the  time  at  our  disposal  until 
2015  is  limited,  and  that  we  have  to  make  the  best 
possible use of it. 

Finally,  let  me  add  my  voice  to  those  who  have 
recalled that 2015 is only one step mid-journey on the 
road  to  the  eradication  of  poverty.  Indeed,  without 
losing  sight  of  the  intermediary  objectives  of  the 
MDGs,  it  is  essential  to  start  thinking  now  about  the 
post-2015 period. 
The  Acting  Chair:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr. Alberto  Gaitmaitan  Romulo,  Secretary 
for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of the Philippines. 
Mr. Romulo (Philippines): The Philippines is one 

with  the  world  in  seeking  to  keep  the  promise  of 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 
by 2015. 

Ten  years  after  the  Millennium  Summit  that 
crafted the MDGs, our country has made considerable 
strides  towards  meeting  most  of  its  targets.  The 
Philippines  is  on  track  to  meet  the  targets  on  child 
mortality,  malaria 
incidence, 
increasing  access  to  sanitation  and  safe  and  potable 
water, and providing equal education for girls. 
However,  despite  the  gains  made  in  the  last 

decade, we need to push ourselves further to meet the 
tuberculosis 
and 
scenario 
the  Philippine 
The  Philippine  Government  will  unveil 
MDGs,  particularly  in  the  areas  where  we  are  lagging 
behind.  Moreover, 
is 
characterized  by  wide  disparities.  Our  latest  progress 
report also shows that climate change poses a threat to 
the  achievement  of  our  targets.  The  population  above 
the  poverty  threshold  is  declining  as  a  result  of  low 
capacities to cope with the effects of shocks, leading to 
more transient poor. 

It  has  been  over  two  months  since  our  country 
had a peaceful transition of power. The fresh mandate 
of  the  people  has  given  the  Government  the  needed 
political  will  for  reforms.  The  new  Administration’s 
cornerstone of good and effective governance will be a 
potent force in addressing the challenges impeding the 
attainment of the MDGs by 2015. Thus, it is crucial for 
the Philippines to eradicate graft and corruption so that 
public  resources  can  be  efficiently  channelled  into 
attaining the MDGs. 

its 
medium-term  development  plan  for  the  period  2010-
2016.  The  policies  and  strategies  outlined  will  reflect 
our  commitment  to  prioritizing  the  MDGs.  The  plan 
will make sure that growth will be shared with the poor 
and  the  vulnerable  by  paving  the  way  for  access  by 
every  Filipino  to  quality  health  care,  education  and 
employment  through  an  appropriate  mix  of  physical 
and  social  infrastructure  and  by  strengthening  social 
safety  nets,  such  as  conditional  cash  transfers  and 
universal health care. 

Regional dimensions and dynamics are taken into 
account  in  the  medium-term  development  plan  to 
address  development  disparities.  Future 
regional 
development  plans  will  contain  localized  targets  and 
strategies in the regions. 
We will focus on measures to adapt to the global 

effects  of  climate  change.  As  an  archipelago  with  a 
diverse ecology, the Philippines is highly vulnerable to 
disasters.  Periodic  natural  disasters 
the 
vulnerability  of  poor  Filipinos,  thus  derailing  our 
efforts  to  reduce  poverty  and  achieve  the  MDGs.  We 
will integrate climate change adaptation strategies and 
measures to protect what we have already achieved and 
continue  our  work  towards  meeting  the  MDG  targets. 
We urge all United Nations Member States also to take 
the necessary action to adapt to climate change and to 
help fellow citizens of this Earth cope with its effects. 
The Philippines has always recognized the role of 

the  various  stakeholders  in  the  MDGs.  Our  medium-
increase 
40 

10-54304 
The 
the  media, 
is  also  proactive 
legislative  branch 
Finally,  as  developing  countries  struggle 


term  development  plan  aims  to  harness  partnerships 
between the public and private sectors, including those 
in  civil  society,  the  business  and  private  sectors, 
academia, 
religious  groups  and  our 
international  development  partners.  We  will  put  in 
place  an  enabling  environment  for  those  stakeholders 
so  that  the  results  of  the  MDGs  will  be  felt  even  in 
remote  areas.  We  will  also  ensure  that  environmental 
sustainability  is  not  compromised  in  the  process  of 
economic growth. 

in 
building  the  legal  foundations  for  the  MDGs.  The 
Philippine House of Representatives set up the Special 
Committee  on  Millennium  Development  Goals,  which 
prioritizes measures concerning the MDGs. 

In line with our MDG strategies, we will also ask 
the  United  Nations  system  to  share  its  knowledge  of 
successful  development  approaches  in  other  countries, 
particularly  in  areas  where  we  lag  behind,  such  as 
reducing  poverty  and  hunger,  school  dropout  rates, 
maternal deaths and HIV/AIDS cases. 

to 
achieve  the  MDGs,  it  is  essential  that  international 
development partners keep their promise. Four decades 
ago, privileged nations pledged to share a small portion 
income  with  developing 
of 
those 
countries.  As  2015  draws  near,  we  urge 
economically  advanced  countries 
fulfil 
their 
commitments. 

As  we  enter  the  last  stretch,  the  Philippine 
Government  is  exerting  all  means  to  deliver  on  its 
promise 
just  as  an 
international  commitment  but  because  our  people 
demand it. Let us remember that each and every one of 
our  citizens  deserves  a  life  of  quality,  meaning  and 
dignity. 
The Acting  Chair:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Her 

Excellency  Ms.  Maite  Nkoana-Mashabane,  Minister 
for  International  Relations  and  Cooperation  of  the 
Republic of South Africa. 
Ms.  Nkoana-Mashabane  (South  Africa):  Ten 

years  have  passed  since  our  Heads  of  State  and 
Government 
took  a  bold  and  historic  step  by 
committing  their  nations,  among  other  things,  to  cut 
extreme  poverty  by  half  and  to  empower  women, 
children  and  other  vulnerable  groups.  The  eight  goals 
defined in the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 
their  gross  national 
to 
to 
realize 
its  MDGs,  not 
A/65/PV.6
in  1994, 
are  central  to  the  mission  of  the  United  Nations  in  its 
advancement  of development, peace and human rights 
in  the  world.  Indeed,  today,  the  High-level  Plenary 
Meeting  of  the  General Assembly  has  been  convened 
five years ahead of the target date of 2015 to accelerate 
progress  towards  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

For  South  Africa,  the  conception  of  the  MDGs 
dovetailed  with  the  development  approach  that  had 
already been adopted by our Government at the end of 
apartheid,  which  is  embedded  in  the  constitutional 
provisions,  including  our  Bill  of  Rights.  Since  our 
independence 
successive  Government 
programmes  have  focused  on  improving  the  living 
conditions  of  our  people  by  channelling  substantial 
resources into the areas of education, basic health care, 
housing  and  basic  services,  such  as  water,  electricity, 
sanitation  and  social  security  benefits.  Of  note  in  that 
regard  are  the  construction  and  transfer  of  more  than 
1.8  million  houses  to  the  poor,  in  addition  to  the 
restoring  of  full  ownership  to  long-term  occupants  of 
houses in historically black residential townships. 

In  our  effort  to  achieve  the  eight  Millennium 
Development Goals, we have included them into a set 
of  10  national  priorities  anchored  on  the  creation  of 
jobs, the improvement of health care, access to quality 
education for all, the eradication of crime and the uplift 
of our rural communities. 

During  the  2010  International  Federation  of 
Association Football World Cup, President Jacob Zuma 
launched 
to 
strategically  draw  attention  to  the  MDGs.  We  will 
continue  to  provide  whatever  support  we  can  to  the 
Millennium Development Goals advocacy campaign. 
Our  own  national  assessment  of  the  state  of 

progress in achieving the MDGs, which is described in 
the country reports that we have produced since 2005, 
the third of which has just been released, gives a clear 
picture  of  our  satisfactory  achievements,  especially 
with  regard  to  MDGs  1,  2,  3  and  8.  However,  we  are 
aware  of  the  challenges  posed  by  MDGs  4,  5  and  6, 
relating  to  health,  and  we  have  established  strong 
Government  programmes,  the  initial  results  of  which 
are  encouraging  and  have  been  confirmed  by  United 
Nations agencies. 

towards  2015,  we 
intend  to  intensify  the  partnerships  that  we  have  built 
to support the implementation of the MDGs, including 
the  One  Goal  education  campaign 
Therefore,  going  forward 
10-54304 

41 

intentions, 
A/65/PV.6 

the  role  of  our  civil  society.  Such  efforts  will  entail 
making  more  resources  available  to  our  relevant  State 
institutions  and  improving  their  delivery  capacity, 
especially  with  regard  to  interventions  on  HIV  and 
AIDS. 

We  believe  that  the  MDGs  should  be  an  integral 
part  of  our  comprehensive,  long-term  development 
strategy. Our focus on quantifiable targets in education 
and  health,  for  instance,  must  be  accompanied  by 
dedicated  attention  to  improving  the  quality  of  the 
public  goods  we  deliver.  The  MDGs  must  also  help 
close  the  gap  between  the  rich  and  the  poor  within 
countries and across the world. 

We  wish  to  reaffirm  the  special  needs  of Africa, 
as reflected in a number of United Nations documents. 
Africa  has  made  significant  progress  over  the  last 
decade.  Sadly,  despite  our  noble 
the 
enabling  conditions  for  a  true  global  partnership  for 
development  have  not  yet  materialized. Through  Goal 
8 of the MDGs, on global partnership for development, 
the  international  community  recognized  that  measures 
at  the  country  level  aimed  at  achieving  the  MDGs 
would  be  significantly  enhanced  by  our  collective 
effort,  working  together,  to  lift  our  people  out  of  the 
scourge of poverty, disease and underdevelopment. 

With only five years left to achieve the MDGs, all 
nations  need  a  far  greater  sense  of  urgency  if  the 
targets are to be met. South Africa is concerned by the 
fact  that  progress  in  achieving  the  MDGs  in  Africa, 
especially  sub-Saharan Africa,  remains  the  slowest.  If 
Africa fails to achieve the MDGs, the world will have 
indeed failed. 
international 

We  are 
community 
is  currently  faced  with  multiple  and 
interrelated  crises  that  put  an  enormous  burden  on 
countries,  particularly 
the  developing  South. 
However,  those  multiple  crises  must  not  dampen  our 
determination to deliver on our commitments. Instead, 
they  must  be  a  clarion  call  to  all  of  us  to  do  more, 
working together, for a better life and a better world for 
all  our  people.  We  must  respond  to  the  Secretary-
General’s  challenge  to  mobilize  the  $100  billion 
needed to achieve the MDGs by 2015. 

I  wish  to  join  those  who  have  spoken  before  me 
in calling on all developed countries to say that now is 
the  time  to  deliver  on  their  official  development 
assistance  commitments.  Our  people  across  the  world 
are  watching  to  see  whether  we  will  be  able  to 
indeed  aware 
that 
the 
in 
a 
partnership 
fundamental 
joint  action 
the  heart  of 
The  Goals  are  at 
The  Acting  Chair:  I  now  call  on  Mr.  Micheál 
galvanize international action to achieve the MDGs by 
the  target  date.  Our  actions  coming  out  of  this 
gathering  must  demonstrate  our  political  will  and 
determination to fulfil the promises we made 10 years 
ago. We must come out of this Meeting united and re-
energized,  to  redouble  our  efforts  towards  the  2015 
goals. 

Martin, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Ireland. 
Mr.  Martin  (Ireland):  We  meet  as  the  political 

representatives of a global community. Our purpose is 
to  account  to  each  other  for  our  actions  over  the  past 
10  years  in  the  fight  against  poverty  and  hunger.  In 
adopting the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), 
we set ourselves clear targets to measure progress up to 
2015.  The  Goals  represent  a  declaration  of  collective 
responsibility  for  the  lives  and  futures  of  the  poorest 
and most vulnerable people on the planet. 
Ireland’s 

development  programme  and  foreign  policy.  They 
represent 
between 
developing  and  developed  nations.  They  require 
collective 
to  mobilize  resources  for 
development.  

One  essential  element  is  the  provision  by  richer 
countries  of  official  development  assistance  (ODA). 
Since Ireland signed up to the Millennium Declaration 
(resolution  55/2)  in  2000,  we  have  tripled  the  annual 
volume of our assistance. We have provided €6 billion 
in  ODA  over  the  decade,  and  the  Irish  people  have 
privately 
donated  many  millions  more.  The 
Government  of 
the 
international  target  of  spending  0.7  per  cent  of  our 
gross national income on overseas assistance by 2015. 

We  have  lessons  to  learn  from  the  past  10  years 
of  collective  and  individual  action.  There  have  been 
major  successes  in  combating  extreme  poverty,  in 
improving  the  levels  of  enrolment  in  primary  schools, 
in child health and in the treatment of HIV and AIDS. 
However,  the  actual  numbers  of  people  living  in 
poverty and hunger continue to increase. It is also clear 
that  some  countries  and  regions  have  made  progress 
while others have not. Without additional efforts and a 
more collaborative approach we will fail to meet some 
of the most important targets we have agreed on. 

uncertainty  and 
The challenge is accentuated by global economic 
impact  of  global 
the  growing 
Ireland 
is 
committed 
to 
42 

10-54304 
In 
in 
in 
the 
and 
the  vulnerable 
developed  world. 
the  developing  world 


challenges,  notably  climate  change.  The  economic 
crisis  has  simultaneously  increased  poverty  in  already 
poor  communities  and  has  imposed  pressure  on  aid 
budgets 
these 
circumstances,  we  have  a  duty  to  examine  rigorously 
the  effectiveness  of  our  policies  and  actions  and  to 
focus sharply on key sectors. 

Since  the  launch  of  Ireland’s  Hunger Task  Force 
Report  at  the  United  Nations  two  years  ago,  we  have 
worked  with  partners  to  galvanize  global  attention  on 
the  crisis  of  world  hunger.  We  believe  that  failure  to 
address  the  crisis  is  impeding  progress  across  the  full 
range of MDGs.  

The  number  of  chronically  hungry  people  has 
risen  in  recent  years  to  some  one  billion.  One  in  four 
children  under  five 
is 
undernourished. The hungry child becomes in turn the 
underachieving  pupil 
and 
impoverished  mother  or  father.  Undernourishment  is 
one  of  the  world’s  most  serious  problems  —  and  yet 
proven, low-cost interventions exist to address it. They 
will not be mobilized effectively unless we as political 
leaders mobilize the political will to do so. 

Today, with the United States Administration, we 
hosted a meeting of international leaders committed to 
building a partnership that will focus on nutrition in the 
vital first one thousand days of life, from pregnancy to 
second  birthday.  We  recognized  the  vital  role  of  the 
Secretary-General’s Scaling Up Nutrition initiative. We 
are now committed to creating partnerships at all levels 
to  support  comprehensive  action  on  nutrition.  Our 
determination  is  to  accelerate  progress  on  the  first  of 
the MDGs: to halve the proportion of people suffering 
from extreme poverty and hunger by 2015. 
Progress  on  the  MDGs  has  been  unbalanced  and 

uneven. The Secretary-General has pointed out that aid 
to Africa  lags  far  behind  commitments  and  far  behind 
needs.  While  in  some  regions  progress  is  made  on 
maternal  mortality,  hundreds  of  thousands  of  African 
women continue to die needlessly due to complications 
in  childbirth. There  is  similar  evidence  across  a  range 
of development indicators. 
We need a stronger collective focus on countries 

and  regions  that  are  making  the  least  progress.  We  in 
Ireland  are already directing more than  80 per  cent of 
our  development  programme  to  sub-Saharan  Africa, 
focusing 
vulnerable 
communities,  infant  and  child  nutrition,  innovative 
protection 
social 
on 
for 
A/65/PV.6
between 
developed 
partnerships 
agricultural research and building capacity to engage in 
economic activity. 

Our  partner  countries  are  at  the  heart  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  They  must  set  their 
own  priorities  for  economic  growth  and  poverty 
reduction. We  must  reaffirm  our  commitment  to  more 
effective 
and 
developing  countries.  The  priorities  must  be  country 
ownership;  use  of  fair,  democratic  and  transparent 
national systems; and accountability to each other and 
to our people. 

The  United  Nations  has  rallied  the  world  behind 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  is  crucial  to 
their  achievement.  We  have  been  heartened  by  the 
agreement in recent months to establish the new gender 
entity,  the  United  Nations  Entity  for  Gender  Equality 
and  the  Empowerment  of  Women  (UN  Women),  and 
we will support its work in promoting the rights, well-
being and empowerment of women worldwide. 

The  United  Nations  can  play  a  stronger  role  in 
ensuring  that  resources  for  global  development  are 
deployed effectively. This means an end to duplication 
of  effort,  a  strengthening  of  coordination  on  the 
trustworthy  system  of  monitoring  and 
ground,  a 
evaluation, 
and 
the 
achievement of clear development results. We all have 
an  obligation  to  demonstrate  clearly  and  publicly  that 
every cent raised to fight poverty and hunger is used to 
full effect. 

to  reaffirm  Ireland’s 
commitment  to  the  ideals,  aspirations  and  specific 
targets set out in the MDGs. They reflect our values as 
a people. We remain determined to work in partnership 
for their achievement. 
The Acting Chair (spoke in Arabic): I now give 

the floor to Mr. Mahamoud Ali Youssouf, Minister for 
Foreign  Affairs  and  International  Cooperation  of 
Djibouti. 
Mr.  Youssouf  (Djibouti):  It  was  a  hopeful  and 

inspiring  moment  when  the  world’s  leaders  at  the 
Millennium Summit of 2000 pledged to meet aid goals 
critical  to  the  development  of  the  world’s  poorest 
countries.  The  list  of  restraints  and  constraints  to 
development continuously faced by the least developed 
countries  remains  large  as  the  projected  date  of 
completion draws ever closer. 
In  conclusion,  I  wish 
an  unrelenting 
focus  on 
10-54304 

43 
inspirations,  but 
important  reaffirmation  of 
A/65/PV.6 


The  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 
represent  the  most  widely  agreed  commitments  of 
world leaders ever undertaken in the framework of the 
United  Nations.  Addressing  extreme  poverty,  hunger 
and disease; promoting gender equality, education and 
environmental  sustainability;  and  building  a  new 
global  partnership  for  development  —  these  goals 
represent  a  vision  of  concrete  and  measurable 
achievements;  not  mere 
tangible 
outcomes.  

That is why we are assembled here today to take 
stock of our progress and to help us make decisions to 
meet the Goals by the 2015 deadline. We welcome the 
upcoming  adoption  of  the  draft  outcome  document 
(A/65/L.1)  as  an 
the 
international  consensus  in  the  field  of  international 
partnership  for  development  and  for  the  promotion  of 
the economic and social advancement of all peoples. 

My  country,  Djibouti,  has  adopted  the  MDGs  as 
our primary national development goals and integrated 
them into our development targets. We have introduced 
an  ambitious  and  comprehensive  social  development 
agenda to improve the welfare and living standards of 
the vulnerable sectors of our society.  

since 
independence,  and  particularly  in  the  last  decade, 
towards reaching a very high primary school enrolment 
rate  for  girls.  Despite  our  limited  resources,  we  have 
always  striven  hard 
to  provide  universal  health 
coverage for our people. Again, against the background 
of severe financial constraints, we continue to provide 
full  free  education  up  to  the  tertiary  level,  including 
extensive 
the 
encouragement  of  free  prenatal  health  check-ups  and 
compulsory vaccinations, we have achieved significant 
progress  in  maternal  and  child  health.  Over  the  years, 
through  the  strenuous  and  conscious  efforts  of  the 
Government  and  thanks  to  continuous  accessing  of 
long-term concessionary development loans, thousands 
of  houses  have  been  built  in  order  to  redress  the 
chronic  shortage  in  this  area.  Overall,  we  continue  to 
undertake consistent measures to contain the spread of 
HIV/AIDS and provide access to free medical attention 
for those who need it.  

is 
unacceptable, confronting us with the moral imperative 
to act and to realize the MDGs by 2015. Achieving the 
MDGs  remains  feasible  with  adequate  commitment, 
The  prevailing  extent  of  global  poverty 
scholarship  programmes.  Through 
significant  progress 
We  have  made 

resources  and  efforts.  Collectively  and 
policies, 
the 
individually,  we  must  strive  hard 
to  create 
conditions  for  sustainable  economic  growth 
that 
creates employment and improves the livelihood of the 
people. A  renewed  commitment  is  needed  from  all  of 
us. 
The Acting Chair (spoke in Arabic): I now give 

the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Kutesa,  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Uganda. 
Mr.  Kutesa  (Uganda):  In  September  2000,  we 

unanimously  adopted  the  comprehensive  Millennium 
Declaration  (resolution  55/2),  committing  our  nations 
to  a  partnership  for  a  peaceful,  prosperous  and  just 
world.  The  driving  force  of  this  partnership  lies  in 
combating  the  causes  and  effects  of  poverty  through 
the achievement of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs). 

The achievement of the MDGs and our quest for 
sustainable  development  and  peace  cannot,  however, 
be  separated.  This  is  even  more  so  in  developing 
countries.  Strategies  for  achieving  the  MDGs  must 
necessarily  be  anchored  in  strategic  national  and 
regional  economic  and  socio-economic  objectives.  If 
we  are  to  be  able  to  celebrate  the  achievement  of  the 
the  acceleration  of  economic 
MDGs 
modernization  and  socio-economic 
transformation 
must receive our utmost attention and effort. 

Poverty  is  first  and  foremost  a  development 
challenge.  Accelerating  progress  towards  meeting  the 
MDGs  therefore  demands  that  we  do  more  than  just 
appease our conscience through scattered relief and aid 
efforts. It demands that we marshal national and global 
efforts  to  address  the  glaring  infrastructural  deficits 
facing developing countries, where the vast majority of 
the poor are found. 
the 

20 countries  making 
the  most  absolute  progress 
towards  achieving  the  MDGs  in  the  world  are  among 
the poorest in the world, and that many are located in 
Africa. Poverty has been reduced in two-thirds of low- 
and middle-income countries and in over three-quarters 
of African  countries.  It  is  equally  encouraging  to  note 
that extreme poverty in developing countries has fallen 
since  the  mid-1990s. Throughout Africa,  however,  the 
progress  on  reducing  hunger  has  been  slow,  although 
there  are  wide  disparities  among  countries.  It  is 
shameful  and  immoral  that,  despite  these  positive 
developments, there are still more than a billion people 
is  encouraging 
that  11  of 
in  2015, 
to  note 
It 
44 

10-54304 
on 
and 
health 
effects 
education, 
downstream 


living  in  situations  of  extreme  poverty  around  the 
world, the majority of whom are in the least developed 
countries. 

This  Assembly  will  note  that  having  a  billion 
hungry people among us is more than just a food crisis. 
It  is  a  political  crisis  that  requires  strong  and  urgent 
that  hunger  has 
political  action.  We  also  note 
devastating 
economic 
development, 
since 
undernourished  people  cannot  stay  healthy  and 
unhealthy  people  are  less  productive.  Missing  the 
target  of  reducing  extreme  hunger  therefore  puts  the 
entire effort to achieve the MDGs at risk. 

This High-level Meeting is therefore an important 
opportunity for world leaders to take decisive action in 
fulfilling  the  outstanding  promises  of  the  Millennium 
Declaration. We must not fail the billions who look to 
the  international  community  to  fulfil  the  world’s 
promises in the five years that remain before 2015. 
As  far  as  national  progress  on  the  MDGs  is 

like  many  other  developing 
concerned,  Uganda, 
countries,  has  made  substantial  progress 
towards 
achieving  the  MDGs.  Our  2010  country  report  on  the 
MDGs  reveals  that  we  have  registered  progress  in  15 
of  the  21  MDG  targets,  with  seven  on  track  for 
achievement.  With  continued  focus  on  our  broad 
strategy of economic transformation and modernization 
and our strong commitment to regional integration, we 
believe  that  we  shall  register  further  progress  in  each 
of the MDGs.  
Modest  progress  has  been  made  on  improving 

child  health,  maternal  health,  access  to  reproductive 
health services, and combating malaria and HIV/AIDS. 
Despite this  progress, challenges still exist. There is a 
need 
to  strengthen  health  systems  and  ensure 
multisectoral  collaboration.  In  the  area  of  HIV/AIDS, 
we are concerned that our past successes in fighting the 
epidemic  are  being  slowed  down  by  the  increase  in 
new infections that recent data suggest. 
As  in  other  countries  in  sub-Saharan  Africa, 

constrained  access 
to  modern  sources  of  energy 
continues  to  cause  degradation  of  Uganda’s  natural 
resources  and  biodiversity.  This  degradation  has  a 
heavy  impact  on  the  livelihoods  of  the  poor  by 
constraining their ability to increase their incomes and 
by making them more vulnerable. 
A/65/PV.6
in 
all 
to 
sectors.  The 

Looking  forward,  there  are  critical  factors,  other 
than  those  I  have  mentioned,  that  we  must  address  if 
we  are  to  accelerate  progress  towards  achieving  the 
MDGs.  First,  we  need  to  pay  more  attention  to 
strengthening  education  in  and  application  of  science 
and  technology  in  developing  countries,  failing  which 
register 
these  countries  will  continue 
low 
productivity 
international 
community  needs  to  rally  around  the  universities  and 
scientists  in  developing  countries  who  are  involved  in 
innovation  and 
the  application  of  science  and 
technology  in  the  various  sectors  of  those  countries’ 
economies. 

Secondly,  developing  countries  must  focus  more 
on  investing  in  key  economic  infrastructure  that  will 
spur economic growth and job creation. The population 
in developing countries is expanding fast. Aid, with its 
biased 
focus  on  social  sectors,  cannot  provide 
sustainable  solutions  to  the  long-term  demands  of 
children  and  young  people  in  developing  countries  or 
to  their  expectation  of  a  better  life  than  that  of  their 
parents. Now is also the time for development partners 
to  rethink  and  reconsider  their  aid  priorities  in  favour 
of  supporting  regional  economic  integration  amongst 
developing countries. 

Thirdly, many developing countries, especially in 
Africa,  continue  to  suffer  an  acute  shortage  of  skills. 
Human 
in  African  countries,  although 
educated, 
the  requisite  skills  for  engaging 
productively  in  the  labour  market. While  we  continue 
to  focus  on  the  attainment  of  MDG  2,  on  achieving 
universal  primary  education,  we  need  to  maintain  an 
even  more  strategic  focus  on  the  employability  of  the 
graduates  of  our  primary  education  systems. This  will 
require  a  renewed  focus  on  promoting  and  expanding 
access  to  technical  and  vocational  training  within  our 
education sectors. 

I  wish  to  stress  that  we  in  Uganda  view  the 
Millennium Development Goals as the strict minimum, 
indeed as basic goals. I hope that we can all agree that 
our  people  clearly  deserve  more  than  what  is  merely 
basic. It is the intention of the Government of Uganda 
to spur economic growth in the country with the aim of 
eliminating 
sustainable 
development.  Only  that  way  will  we  have  served  our 
people well. 
The Acting Chair (spoke in Arabic): I now give 

the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr. Adelino  Mano  Queta, 
achieving 
resources 
poverty 
lack 
and 
10-54304 

45 

(spoke 
International 
Mr.  Queta
(Guinea-Bissau) 
for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
A/65/PV.6 

Minister 
Cooperation of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau. 
in 

Portuguese; French text provided by the delegation): It 
is a great honour for Guinea-Bissau to take part in this 
global  forum,  an  ideal  setting  for  the  exchange  of 
experience among countries on the achievement of the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).  

I  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  the  political 
will and commitment of the Government of my country 
to further strengthening its work in all spheres in order 
to  achieve  the  goals  set,  in  spite  of  the  enormous 
difficulties.  Guinea-Bissau  is  deeply  committed  to 
revising  its  national  poverty  reduction  strategy,  whose 
main  goal  is  to  significantly  and  lastingly  reduce 
poverty  and  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  

This  initiative  is  part  of  a  serious  effort  to 
encourage  economic  growth.  Despite  the  importance 
accorded to stability and security, it is clear today that 
it  is  equally  essential  to  accelerate  economic  growth, 
particularly 
the  poorest, 
improve  macroeconomic 
diversify 
management  and  consolidate  administrative  reform 
with  a  view  to  guaranteeing  the  provision  of  basic 
services  such  as  education,  health  care,  safe  drinking 
water and sanitation.  

The  initial  results  of  a  number  of  studies  and 
investigations  seem  to  suggest  a  certain  improvement 
in  a  number  of  social  indicators.  Nevertheless,  the 
extremely  high  level  of  maternal  and  infant  mortality 
leads  us  to  conclude  that  MDGs  4  and  5  will  not  be 
fully reached. That is why it is necessary to take urgent 
steps  so  that  we  can  achieve  all  the  Goals.  The 
Government is aware of the situation and has therefore 
launched  a  campaign  on  accelerated  reduction  of 
maternal  mortality  in Africa,  whose  goal  is  to  reduce 
neonatal,  maternal  and  infant  mortality,  as  well  as  an 
accelerated  programme  to  ensure  the  survival  of 
children.  

The Government’s capacity for initiatives is also 
visible  in  the  promotion  of  gender  equality.  For 
instance, in parallel with the enrolment of young girls, 
three draft laws have been introduced  on reproductive 
health,  gender-based  violence  and  human  trafficking. 
These  initiatives  can  succeed  only  through  the  urgent 
allocation of additional resources by stakeholders.  
the  economy, 
that  employ 
in  sectors 
the 
to 
finance 
for 
thorny 
issue  of 
Concerning 

For  Guinea-Bissau,  strengthening  a  genuine 
partnership for development involves the Government, 
regional  institutions,  the  United  Nations  system,  civil 
society  and  bilateral  partners.  Such  strengthening  is 
crucial  if  we  are  to  raise  the  country’s  level  of 
development. 

resource 
mobilization, which continues to mortgage our chances 
of attaining the MDGs, we have launched an appeal for 
solidarity 
from  our  development  partners.  The 
commitments  assumed  as  part  of  such  historic 
initiatives as the Monterrey Consensus of March 2002; 
the  Group  of  Eight’s  Gleneagles  appeal  of  July  2005, 
with  a  view  to  doubling  the  flow  of  aid  to Africa;  or 
more  recently  still,  the  Group  of  20  resolutions  in 
favour  of  low-income  countries,  must  be  honoured. 
Without  these  commitments,  the  major  gains  made  by 
our countries at the cost of major sacrifice on the path 
to  development  and  poverty  reduction  could  be 
jeopardized forever.  

The  situation  was  already  precarious,  and  the 
crisis  has  only  made  it  worse  in  the  majority  of  our 
countries.  According  to  World  Bank  data,  71  million 
people,  including  20  million  Africans,  who  were 
initially  seen  as  emerging  from  poverty  by  2015  will 
still be suffering because of the crisis. 

For  the  same  reason,  by  2015  55,000  additional 
children  will  lose  their  lives,  around  350,000  pupils 
will  be  unable  to  finish  their  primary  education,  and 
another 10 million people  will still not have access to 
potable  water.  In  that  context  we  hail  the  efforts  to 
increase  resources  that  for  many  of  our  countries 
represent 
their 
economies.  We  take  this  opportunity  to  urge  our 
development  partners  to  work  towards  a  successful 
outcome of the discussions under way on replenishing 
the 
International 
Development,  the  World  Bank  Group  and  the African 
Development Fund.  

In  my  Government’s  development  programme, 
biodiversity is considered a natural heritage as well as 
a  vital  source  for  humanity.  That 
the 
Government  has  made  considerable  efforts  to  achieve 
the MDGs through taking steps to create a network of 
protected sites, drafting plans of action for endangered 
species, 
and 
communications programmes adapted to the realities of 
the  country.  Close  cooperation  with  a  view  to  a 
the  only  possibility 
environmental 
resources  of 
the  Agency 
education 
is  why 
and 
46 

10-54304 
to 
Chad 
achieving 
committed 
regional  and 
In  conclusion,  permit  me  to  wish  all  success  for 


partnership for development has been assured with the 
international financial institutions, including, inter alia, 
the World  Bank,  the  International  Monetary  Fund,  the 
European  Union  and 
subregional 
organizations  including  the  Economic  Community  of 
West  African  States  and  the  West  African  Economic 
and Monetary Union. 

our endeavours. 
The Acting Chair (spoke in Arabic): I now give 

the floor to His Excellency Mr. Moussa Faki Mahamat, 
Minister  for  External  Relations  of  the  Republic  of 
Chad.  
Mr.  Mahamat  (Chad)  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Idriss  Deby  Itno, 
President of the Republic of Chad, allow me to extend 
our  sincere  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for 
his initiative to organize this high-level meeting on the 
Millennium Development Goals.  

the 
itself 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  all  the  more  in  that 
they were already part of our Government programme. 
Furthermore,  we  adopted  a  growth  and  poverty 
reduction  strategy 
the  best 
cooperation  framework  to  unite  all  the  national  and 
international 
towards 
achieving the Goals.  

Unfortunately,  in  recent  years  the  country  has 
seen  many  armed  incursions  that  have  slowed  the 
significant progress we had made in areas that directly 
affect  poverty  reduction.  The  eastern  and  southern 
areas  of  the  country  are  sheltering  more  than  250 
million  refugees  from  both  Darfur  and  the  Central 
African  Republic.  That  massive  presence 
in  an 
environment  that  was  already  precarious  is  a  major 
challenge  that  must  be  resolved.  Natural  disasters, 
great  droughts  and  food  crises  continuously  affect  the 
countries  of  the  Sahel  and  remain  real  handicaps  for 
our  attainment  of 
the  Goals  and  especially  for 
financing for our development strategies. 
However,  the  major  concern  undeniably  remains 

the  harmful 
change 
throughout the world in general and in the developing 
countries  in  particular.  The  latter  are  the  poorest  and 
most  vulnerable,  and  without  doubt  they  suffer  the 
effects on the climate caused by the major greenhouse 
gas  producers  —  the  industrialized  countries.  We 
efforts  directed  primarily 
consequences  of 
remains 
climate 
today 
that 
A/65/PV.6
in 
for 
that 
rate,  conducting  activities 
experience  those  harmful  effects  daily  as  the  worst 
catastrophe  for  our  environment,  our  agriculture  and 
our livestock — in short, for the life of our people. At 
that 
sustainable 
development is not at all easy.  

The  most  striking  example  is  the  risk  that  Lake 
Chad  might  disappear  completely.  In  40  years  the 
Lake’s  surface  area  has  shrunk  from  25,000  square 
kilometers  to  less  than  2,500.  In  October  my  country 
will  host  the  eighth  World  Forum  on  Sustainable 
Development  with  a  view  to  saving  Lake  Chad.  Chad 
hopes  for  massive  participation  on  the  part  of  the 
international  community 
forum,  because 
preserving Lake Chad should be a global concern. 

In spite of all those challenges, Chad continues to 
progress, with the help of its partners, by carrying out 
meaningful  actions,  becoming  party  to  international 
conventions  and  agreements  on  the  environment  and 
drafting  texts  on  the  environment  and  incorporating 
them into the national plan. 

In  June  we  hosted  the  first  summit  of  the  Big 
Green  Wall  programme,  which  was  organized  at  the 
initiative  of  the  countries  of  the  Sahel. The  honour  to 
host the meeting was bestowed on my country because 
of its pioneering role in large-scale reforestation in the 
region.  In  2009  we  started  the  national  Green  Belt 
programme  to  plant  over  16  million  trees  a  year 
throughout the country. Moreover, Chad decided to ban 
the  cutting  of  trees  to  make  charcoal.  That  measure, 
however  difficult  for  households,  is  essential  for  the 
preservation  of  our  ecosystem.  Through  those  two 
programmes  and  that  initiative,  we  intend  to  promote 
socio-economic  development  in  target  areas  that  are 
vulnerable 
implementing 
programmes  to  preserve  and  restore  natural  resources 
and to encourage economic activity. 

those 
programmes fit in perfectly with global efforts to fight 
the  harmful  effects  of  climate  change,  and  thus  they 
deserve the support of the international community. By 
supporting  the  efforts  of  our  countries  to  implement 
their 
international 
community  will  be  able  to  resolve  the  problems  of 
sustainable development. Respect for the commitments 
made  at  Monterrey  is  part  of  this  effort  to  support 
financing for sustainable development. 
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reassure  the 

Assembly  that  Chad  will  abide  by  its  international 
the  subregional  aspects, 
desertification 
But  beyond 
development 
strategies, 
the 
by 
to 
10-54304 

47 

of 
and 
together  with 
the  Member  States 
A/65/PV.6 

commitments  and  will  work 
the 
international  community  to  make  our  planet  a  healthy 
place and a good place to live. 
The Acting Chair (spoke in French): I now give 

the  floor  to  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Diénabou  Saifon 
Diallo,  Minister  of  Planning  and 
International 
Cooperation of the Republic of Guinea. 
Ms. Diallo (Guinea) (spoke in French): Allow me 

to  welcome  the  heads  of  State  and  Government, 
delegations 
the 
representatives  of  international  organizations  and  to 
convey  to  them  the  profound  gratitude  of  the  people 
and  Government  of  Guinea  for  all  their  unwavering 
support with a view to the return of constitutional order 
and  the  holding  of  free,  transparent  and  democratic 
presidential elections in Guinea. 

Allow  me  also  to  join  my  voice  to  those  who 
spoke  before  me  in  voicing  my  delegation’s  gratitude 
to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  Secretary-
General, for his tremendous ongoing efforts at the head 
of our Organization. 

My delegation’s statement will cover two issues. 
The  first  concerns  an  assessment  of  progress  towards 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) 
in Guinea and, the second, financing for development. 

Like other countries, Guinea, with conviction and 
hope,  fully  endorsed  the  MDGs  in  September  2000. 
Since  then,  our  Government,  with  the  support  of  its 
development partners, in particular the United Nations 
system,  has  made 
the 
realization of the MDGs. These efforts have allowed us 
to  make  progress  in  the  fields  of  education,  gender 
equality, child health and HIV, and certain targets could 
well  be  achieved  by  2015.  On  the  other  hand,  in  the 
fields  of  poverty 
food  security  and 
environmental sustainability, progress is inadequate. 

Overall,  the  possibility  of  achieving  the  MDGs 
has  decreased,  particularly  in  recent  years,  due  to  the 
combined affect of a number of factors, including most 
particularly 
the  country 
dominated as it has been by a severe political crisis, a 
marked deterioration in the quality of governance and a 
drastic fall in foreign aid. Without an improvement  of 
the  political  context  and  renewed  momentum  in  the 
economic  and  social  development  process,  we  risk 
missing  the  2015  deadline  for  achieving  most  of  the 
Goals  and  targets.  According  to  a  2006-2007  needs 
the  general  context  of 
laudable  efforts 
reduction, 
towards 
and 
to  a 
every 
regard, 
regular 
possible 
consider 
sustained 
resources 
innovative 
commitment 
in  particular  due 
financing 
tool 
stable 
assessment  study  on  Guinea’s  MDG  progress,  the 
approximate  cost  of  the  necessary  resources  for  the 
achievement  of  its  objectives  was  estimated  to  be 
$12.254 billion for the period 2006-2015, or an annual 
average of $1.234 billion or $110 per capita. 
I take this opportunity to reiterate our appeal for a 

more 
a  bolstered 
partnership in the international covenant to achieve the 
MDGs. 

Concerning financing for development in general, 
this  issue  is  crucial  for Africa. According  to  a  variety 
of assessments, the negative impact of multiple crises, 
particularly on the 33 least developed countries (LDCs) 
in Africa  and  the  49  LDCs  throughout  the  world,  will 
make  the  continent  unable  to  achieve  the  MDGs  by 
2015, 
lack  of  official 
development  assistance.  It  is  therefore  vital  that  this 
summit 
and 
supplementary source of financing for development. In 
is 
this 
increasingly 
for  marshalling 
emerging  as  an 
important 
additional,  predictable  and 
to 
complement official development assistance.  

To  this  end,  Guinea  would  like  to  submit  for 
consideration  two  proposals  whose  goal  is  to  increase 
resources  for  financing  for  development  for Africa  by 
2015  and  beyond.  These  are  the  organization  of  an 
African  conference  on  innovative  financing  and  the 
preparation  of  a  draft  African  declaration  on 
transparency  of  financial  governance  and  the  fight 
against illicit flows of capital. 

An  African  conference  on  innovative  financing 
would  allow  us  to  consider  strategies  for  mobilizing 
innovative financing in order to complement traditional 
official  development  assistance  and 
the  domestic 
resources necessary for funding the MDGs. Concerning 
the  draft  African  declaration  on 
transparency  of 
financial  governance  and  the  struggle  against  illicit 
flows  of  capital,  its  objective  would  be  to  stem  the 
exodus of huge amounts of capital from Africa in order 
to devote it to the continent’s development. 

These  proposals  were  well  received  in  various 
African  agencies  and  by  the  pilot  group,  and  were 
endorsed  by  the  heads  of  State  and  Government 
attending the Twenty-Fifth Africa-France Summit, and 
by  the  African  Union  at  its  fifteenth  summit  in 
Kampala. At the same time, the proposed organization 
of  an African  conference  on  innovative  financing  was 
48 

10-54304 
the  benefit  of  Africa  during 


subject  to  consultations  from  5  to  16  July  2010  with 
partner  institutions.  My  country  has  presented  its 
candidature to host the conference in March 2012 in its 
capital,  Conakry,  parallel  with  the  fifth  Joint  Annual 
Meetings of the African Union Conference of Ministers 
of  Economy  and  Finance  and  the  United  Nations 
Economic  Commission  for  Africa  Conference  of 
Ministers  of  Finance,  Planning  and  Economic 
Development. My delegation would like this project to 
be  taken  into  account  by  the  international  community 
and  included  among  the  proposals  for  action  to  be 
presented  for 
the 
deliberations of the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth 
session. 

In  conclusion,  the  Republic  of  Guinea  seeks  the 
support  of  Member  States  in  order  to  attain  this 
objective. 
The  Acting  Chair:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Zalmai  Rassoul,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Islamic Republic of Afghanistan. 
Mr.  Rassoul  (Afghanistan):  Ten  years  ago, 

Member  States  gathered  in  this  Assembly  to  take  an 
unprecedented  step.  Through  the  adoption  of  the 
Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2),  we  asserted 
our shared responsibility to humanity and committed to 
making  tangible  progress  in  improving  the  lives  of 
human beings around the world. 

In  addition  to  being  a  moral  imperative,  the 
Declaration  also  recognized  the  crucial  link  between 
the  well-being  of  individuals  and  the  stability  and 
health of societies and States. Through the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  we  committed  ourselves 
to  addressing  some  of  the  world’s  most  difficult  and 
pressing  development 
including  poverty, 
hunger,  disease,  environmental  degradation,  and  the 
promotion  of  gender  equality,  education  and  health. 
Ten  years  later,  these  are  still  the  main  challenges 
facing our people and our countries.  
At  the  time  of  the  Millennium  Declaration’s 

adoption  in  2000,  Afghanistan  was  cut  off,  isolated 
from  the  international  community  by  the  abhorrent 
Taliban  regime,  which  denied  the Afghan  people  even 
the  most  fundamental  human  rights  and  allowed 
terrorists  to  use Afghan  soil  to  launch  attacks  around 
the  world.  In  2001,  with  the  overthrow  of  the Taliban 
regime,  Afghanistan  slowly  began 
its 
shattered political, economic and social structures, and 
to regain its rightful place in the community of nations. 
to  rebuild 
issues, 
A/65/PV.6
The 
elections 
reaffirmed 
representatives 

Our country undertook a series of policies aimed 
at  a  comprehensive  reconstruction  and  stabilization  of 
the  political  and  economic  situation,  both  nationally 
and  regionally.  These  policies  centred  on  the  urgent 
need to raise the Afghan people out of grinding poverty 
and  to  provide  them  with  the  basic  human  rights, 
opportunities  and  services  that  had  been  denied  them 
for decades. 

Afghanistan  has  made  enormous  strides  in  the 
past decade, emerging from the ruins of war to build a 
more  functioning  Government,  a  more  prosperous 
economy,  and  a  more  healthy  society.  Just  three  days 
ago,  Afghanistan  held 
its  second  parliamentary 
elections.  Millions  of  Afghans  from  all  walks  of  life 
braved  a  challenging  security  situation  and  cast  their 
votes to elect representatives to the National Assembly. 
The  unprecedented  number  of  women  candidates, 
voters  and  elected 
is  a  clear 
demonstration of how far Afghan women have come in 
regaining their proactive role in Afghan society.  

steadfast 
commitment  of  the  Afghan  people  to  democracy  and 
self-determination.  Our  leadership  will  continue  to 
focus  on  good  governance 
introduce 
institutional reforms that will make us more responsive 
to  the  needs  and  concerns  of  the  vibrant Afghan  civil 
society and population. 

Economically, 80 per cent of Afghans depend on 
agriculture for their livelihoods, and, along with other 
agricultural 
undertaken 
comprehensive  efforts  to  rebuild  and  repair  irrigation 
systems  and  constructed  over  10,000  kilometres  of 
roads.  These  changes  have  improved  productivity  in 
the  agricultural  and  trade  sectors,  which  boosted  our 
gross domestic product to record highs of 22.5 per cent 
growth  this  year.  The  average  income  has  quadrupled 
since  2001.  This  year  for  the  first  time,  Government 
revenue  surpassed  $1  billion.  The  recent  discovery  of 
enormous  mineral  resources,  combined  with  potential 
trade  and  transit  opportunities  with  our  neighbours, 
provides  an  opportunity  to  raise  the  Afghan  people 
from  poverty  and  offers  a  sound  basis  for  future 
prosperity. 

Afghanistan’s  health  and  education  sectors  have 
also developed significantly, thanks in large part to the 
assistance  of  our  international  partners,  including  this 
Organization. We have established hundreds of clinics 
and  hospitals  across  the  country,  expanding  basic 
and 
to 
the 
reforms, 
we 
have 
10-54304 

49 

A/65/PV.6 

health  coverage  from  9  per  cent  of  the  population  in 
2003  to  close  to  90  per  cent  this  year.  Our  national 
immunization  campaign  is  in  full  swing,  reaching  out 
to millions of children under the age of five to protect 
them against polio and other deadly diseases. We have 
made substantial improvements in reducing infant and 
under-five  mortality  rates.  In  addition,  we  have  a  71 
per  cent  school  enrolment  rate  of  Afghan  boys  and 
girls.  As  part  of  our  national  agenda  to  promote 
primary,  secondary  and  higher  education,  we  have 
constructed  close  to  4,000  school  buildings  over  the 
past nine years. We are on track to build an additional 
4,900 by the end of 2013. 

We are also building a complex social safety net, 
geared towards finding work for those willing and able 
and  supporting  those  who  are  unable  to  care  for 
themselves.  

We  must  keep  in  mind  the  backdrop  of  severe 
fragility  and  conflict  when  assessing  the  success  of 
Afghanistan in achieving the Millennium Development 
Goals.  Security  is  the  bedrock  for  socio-economic 
development.  The  difficult  security  situation 
in 
Afghanistan  has  challenged  our  ability  to  sustain 
progress.  The  enemies  of  peace  and  stability  in 
Afghanistan  are  still  active,  orchestrating  attacks 
against schools, clinics, teachers, doctors, Government 
employees  and  even  young  children,  particularly 
schoolgirls.  

Unfortunately,  similar  attacks  continue  against 
humanitarian  aid  organizations  and  their  personnel, 
who are working under difficult conditions to improve 
the  lives  of  ordinary  Afghans.  In  recognition  of  the 
crucial  role  of  security 
in  providing  space  for 
development, I would like to emphasize our addition of 
security to Afghanistan’s list of MDGs. Improvements 
in  security  over  the  past  year  include  substantial 
progress  in  clearing  landmines  and  reducing  poppy 
cultivation. 

While  we  have  made  significant  improvements, 
Afghanistan  remains  the  country  with  the  lowest 
income in the region, with 40 per cent of its population 
unemployed and 36 per cent living in poverty. We still 
face a gender gap in literacy and education. For those 
reasons,  we  realize  more  than  ever  the  importance  of 
our  international  partners  in  supporting  our  country. 
Our budget for development is entirely financed by aid. 
towards 
We  hope 
streamlining  aid  more  effectively 
the 
transition 
continue 
through 
the 
to 
close 
require 
attention: 
Government  of  Afghanistan,  with  a  view  towards 
sustainability and capacity building. We have designed 
an  extensive  plan  for  Millennium  Development  Goals 
and targets over the next decade.  

While we know that the path ahead is a difficult 
one, we are determined to forge on with a view towards 
reaching  our  MDG  commitments.  Our  number  one 
priority  as  a  Government  is  to  bring  an  end  to  the 
conflict. The Afghan people are thirsty  for peace. The 
Afghan  National  Army  and  Police  are  being  trained 
and  equipped  to  take  responsibility  for  the  Afghan 
people.  The  Afghan  Government  is  simultaneously 
undertaking  a  broad  political  outreach  initiative  to 
offer a new beginning to former combatants and others 
willing to lay down arms and embrace a peaceful life. 

In addition, in order to focus on the most pressing 
issues, the Afghan Government recently identified five 
key areas in the Afghan national development strategy 
that  will 
agricultural 
development and rural rehabilitation, human resources 
development,  economic  and  infrastructure  development, 
governance and security. 
Our  recent  Kabul  conference  was  a  milestone  in 

greater Afghan  leadership,  particularly  when  it  comes 
to security, governance and development. At the Kabul 
Conference,  we 
comprehensive 
development  agenda,  aimed  at  implementing  tangible 
improvements  in  the  lives  of  our  citizens.  Over  the 
coming  years,  our  Government  will  push  for  a 
responsibility  and 
transition 
leadership 
economic 
development and governance.  

We  are  aware  of  the  challenges  we  face.  More 
than 3 billion people worldwide live on less than $2.50 
a day. Far too many are denied access to food, shelter, 
water  and  other  necessities  of  life.  But Afghanistan  is 
well  aware,  perhaps  more  than  many,  of  exactly  how 
much we can accomplish when we work together. Our 
responsibility as world leaders and as human beings is 
to  persevere  in  our  quest  to  improve  the  lives  of  our 
fellow citizens. I am convinced that, with commitment 
and focus, we will succeed. 
The Acting Chair (spoke in Arabic): I now give 

the floor to His Excellency Mr. Fayssal Al-Mekdad, the 
Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Syrian Arab 
Republic. 
to  greater  Afghan 
in 
presented 
security, 
social 
our 
and 
50 

10-54304 
for 
in  addressing 
community’s  vision 


Mr. Al-Mekdad (Syrian Arab Republic) (spoke in 

Arabic):  Ten  years  have  passed  since  the  adoption  of 
the  Millennium  Declaration,  in  which  we  set  out  the 
international 
the  new 
millennium.  Unfortunately,  facts  and  statistics  show 
that  the  results  have  not  come  up  to  our  expectations. 
Targets  have  yet  to  be  met.  Poverty,  hunger  and 
epidemics  are  rampant  throughout  the  world.  Tension 
and occupation continue to threaten international peace 
and  security.  In  those  circumstances,  development  for 
people in lands under Israeli occupation in the Middle 
East cannot be achieved.  

The  2000  Millennium  Declaration  reflected  the 
international  consensus  on  promoting  sustainable 
development,  combating  poverty  and  protecting  the 
environment.  The  eight  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  —  namely,  reducing  the  number  of 
people  suffering  from  hunger  and  famine,  providing 
primary  education  to  all  in  every  country,  improving 
the  status  of  women,  lowering  the  rate  of  infant 
mortality,  reducing  maternal  mortality  and  halting  the 
spread of AIDS and malaria — constituted the common 
denominator  shared  by  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations 
the  challenges  confronting 
humankind. 

A  brief  look  at  the  achievements  in  the  decade 
since  the  adoption  of  the  Millennium  Declaration 
prompt  us  to  say  that  the  most  basic  elements  of 
development  —  humankind’s  sense  of  security,  peace 
and  liberation  —  have  not  been  met.  In  our  region, 
Israel  continues  to  occupy  Palestine,  whose  people 
languish  under  occupation  and  suffer  from  hunger, 
poverty  and  repression.  More  than  half  a  million 
Syrians have been pushed by Israel out of the occupied 
Golan,  far  from  their  land.  About  20,000  remain 
languishing under occupation.  

How can development and the MDGs be achieved 
in such circumstances? If it is true, as Israel claims and 
as  we  heard  yesterday,  that  science  and  innovation 
have  replaced  land  as  the  source  of  wealth,  why  does 
Israel  not  withdraw  from  the  Palestinian,  Syrian  and 
Lebanese  territory  under  its  occupation?  Much  of  the 
suffering in our region, in particular with regard to the 
failure to achieve the MDGs, can be blamed on Israel’s 
aggressive  policies  and  its  continuing  occupation  of 
our  land.  It  must  be  emphasized  that  Syria’s  demand 
for  peace  does  not  involve  concessions  by  Israel. 
Instead,  it  means  returning  all  usurped  lands  to  their 
rightful owners. 
A/65/PV.6
to  coordinate 
the  necessary  efforts 

Syria renews its commitment to the peace option 
as  the  only  means  of  ensuring  security,  stability  and 
progress in the Middle East. We believe that peace can 
only take root if it is a just peace that re-establishes the 
full  right  of  all  people  on  the  basis  of  resolutions  of 
international legitimacy. We also believe that resuming 
peace  negotiations  requires  clear  foundations  and 
guarantees to implement whatever is agreed. 

The  signs  of  some  recovery  in  the  international 
economic situation do not mean that the effects of the 
world  financial  and  economic  crisis  have  receded. 
Rather,  the  consequences  of  the  crisis  are  being 
revealed  on  a  daily  basis,  especially  in  the  poor 
countries  of  the  South. The  number  of  poor  people  in 
those  States  is  increasing,  making  it  incumbent  upon 
the  United  Nations  and  its  Member  States  to  continue 
to  make 
the 
response to the crisis and its consequences in order to 
carry  out  a  fundamental  reform  of  the  international 
economic  and  financial  order  so  that  the  needs  of 
developing  countries  and 
their  peoples  may  be 
satisfied,  ensuring  their  participation  in  economic  and 
financial decision-making at the international level. 

The Syrian economy has many strong points. It is 
a  diversified  economy. We  focus  on  the  real  economy 
while  also  paying  attention  to  the  service  economy. 
That  is  in  addition  to  the  positive  results  we  have 
achieved  in  our  successive  five-year  plans  for  Syria’s 
development.  The  means  used  to  respond  to  the 
international  economic  crisis  have  proved,  more  than 
ever  before,  that  the  State  has  a  fundamental  role  to 
play  in  ensuring  oversight  of  economic  and  financial 
systems  at  the  national  and  international  levels.  The 
Syrian  Government  has  sought  to  lessen  the  negative 
effects  of  the  economic  and  financial  crisis  on  our 
national economy by adopting a series of decisions that 
have  had  a  positive  effect  on  domestic  economic 
growth.  However,  with  regard  to  the  MDGs,  the 
following points must be emphasized. 
First,  unilateral  economic  measures  imposed  by 

some developed States against a number of developing 
countries  undermine  the  world  economic  order.  They 
hamper  the  efforts  made  by  developing  countries  to 
build their economies and address the world economic 
and financial crisis, to say nothing of achieving lasting 
sustainable  development.  In  that  regard,  I  must  point 
out  that  unilateral  sanctions  are  imposed  by  some, 
without  justification,  on  developing  States  like  Syria 
10-54304 

51 

Thirdly,  donor  countries  must  honour 
A/65/PV.6 

and  Cuba,  contrary  to  international  trade  laws  and 
international law. 

Secondly, developing countries continue to face a 
number  of  obstacles  in  attempting  to  join  the  World 
Trade  Organization  (WTO).  A  developing  country 
might have to wait nine years while its request to join 
WTO  is  discussed.  That  certainly  does  not  help  to 
establish  the  appropriate  international  environment  to 
support  their  efforts  towards  economic  development 
and joining the world economy. 
their 

commitments to supporting development in the South. 
In  addition,  South-South  cooperation  must  be 
increased.  It  is  also  necessary  for  the  countries  of  the 
South  to  increase  economic  exchanges  and  harmonize 
their positions in international negotiations in order to 
defend  their  interests,  promote  their  development  and 
achieve the MDGs. 
With five years remaining to achieve the MDGS, 

despite the limited success thus far, and as we affirmed 
in  the  Millennium  Declaration,  we  renew  our  faith  in 
international 
towards  more  peace, 
prosperity  and  justice  in  the  world.  Let  us  all  rise 
together  to  the  challenges  we  face.  Let  us  work 
together  for  a  better  future  for  humankind,  a  future 
where  the  coming  generations  enjoy  security,  peace 
and well-being. 
The Acting Chair (spoke in Arabic): I now give 

the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Pak  Kil  Yon,  Vice-
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea. 
Mr. Pak Kil Yon (Democratic People’s Republic 

of  Korea)  (spoke  in  Korean;  English  text  provided  by 
the delegation): It was 10 years ago in this very forum 
that  the  United  Nations  Millennium  Declaration  was 
adopted for a peaceful world free from war and poverty 
where  all  could  flourish.  Efforts  by  the  international 
community  have  continued  unabated  for  the  past 
10 years 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs), the practical programme 
of the Millennium Declaration. 

It  is  regrettable  that  efforts  have  so  far  failed  to 
reach  the  stage  required  for  the  development  of 
developing countries. Louder voices calling for poverty 
eradication  and  sustainable  development  are  coming 
from one side of the world, while from the other there 
is  evidence  of  more  militant  behaviour,  including 
to  achieve 
cooperation 
in  order 
It 
imperative 
to  adapt 
invasions,  military 
threats,  sanctions  and 
armed 
blockades targeted at sovereign States. 

Even at this moment, fears are growing about the 
ever-worsening  financial  crisis,  the  increasing  number 
and    severity  of  natural  disasters  and  the  unusual 
climate  changes  that  are  manifest  throughout  the 
world.  As  a  result,  countries  are  faced  with  critical 
elements of instability and efforts to achieve the MDGs 
on time have been hampered by serious challenges. 

With  regard  to  the  MDGs,  it  is  imperative  to 
establish a peaceful environment before anything else. 
If  aggression  and 
intervention  continue  against 
sovereign States and arms races intensify among world 
Powers, as we are witnessing today, the world will be 
further  destabilized  and  overwhelmed  by  fear,  leaving 
developing  countries 
to  suffer  from  hunger  and 
poverty.  It  is  therefore  essential  for  the  international 
community to make every effort to establish a peaceful 
environment by rejecting the use of force and removing 
threats of its use. 

the  existing 
is  also 
inappropriate  international  economic  architecture  and 
create a sustainable environment so that the MDGs can 
be  achieved  on  time.  Financial  and  economic  crises 
across the world in recent years have demonstrated the 
ineffectiveness  of  the  current  inequitable  international 
economic  architecture  and  have  had  a  serious  impact 
on  the  already  vulnerable  economies  of  developing 
countries.  In  such  circumstances,  the  establishment  of 
equitable  international  economic  relations  is  urgently 
required. There must be no further delay. 
International development strategies and policies, 

towards 
including 
assisting  developing  countries 
to 
strengthen the self-reliance of their national economies 
and promote social justice and equality.  

Enhancing  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  is  also 
important  in  the  effort  to  achieve  the  MDGs.  The 
United  Nations  should  address 
inappropriate 
elements  of  the  international  economic  structure  that 
have  a  negative  impact  on  the  development  efforts  of 
developing  countries.  It  should  also  take  steps  to 
ensure  an  international  environment  that  favours  the 
achievement  of 
the  strict 
adherence  of  developed  countries  to  their  official 
development 
removing 
inequitable  trade  barriers  and  establishing  a  new 
international financial system. 
the  MDGs,  should  be  geared 
the  MDGs  by  urging 
commitments, 
assistance 
in 
their  efforts 
the 
52 

10-54304 
to 
a 
their 
nation 
require 
durable 
consolidation 



The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  has 
now  embarked  on  a  new  phase  in  the  building  of  a 
great,  prosperous  and  powerful  nation  under 
the 
leadership of  the great General  Kim Jong Il. Our goal 
of  building  such  a  nation  is  fully  in  accordance  with 
the MDGs, as it implies a country with strong national 
power  in  which  everything  thrives  and  people  enjoy 
well-being. 

Major  progress  in  terms  of  MDGs  has  already 
been  made  in  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea.  We  have  free  medical  care,  free  compulsory 
education  and  gender  equality  rights.  We  are  now 
devoting  ourselves 
and 
qualitative  improvement.  It  is  the  unwavering  will  of 
the Government and people of the Democratic People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  to  open  the  door  to  a  great, 
prosperous and powerful nation by the year 2012, when 
we will mark the centennial anniversary of the birth of 
the great President Kim Il Sung. 
Our  efforts  to  build  a  great,  prosperous  and 

powerful 
peaceful 
environment.  This  is  the  sixtieth  year  since  the 
outbreak of the Korean War. To mark the occasion, we 
have    proposed  to  the  parties  concerned  that  talks  be 
held  on  replacing  the  Korean  Armistice  Agreement 
with a peace treaty. Our proposal is aimed at removing 
the  source  of  threats  to  peace  and  stability  in  the 
region,  establishing  a  mechanism  for  lasting  peace  on 
the  Korean  peninsula  and  creating  a  peaceful 
environment  to  build  the  country’s  economy  and 
improve people’s living standards. 

It is entirely thanks to the Songun politics of the 
great general Kim Jong Il that we are preserving peace 
and  concentrating  our  efforts  on  building  economic 
power  in  spite  of  the  destabilized  situation  on  the 
Korean  peninsula.  In 
the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  will  further  expand  and 
develop  cooperation  with  all  countries  to  build  a 
peaceful  and  prosperous  new  world  under  a  foreign 
policy of independence, peace and friendship. We will 
make an active contribution to the full achievement of 
the Millennium Development Goals. 
The Acting  Chair:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Her 

Excellency Ms. Paulette Bethel, chair of the delegation 
of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas. 
Ms.  Bethel  (Bahamas):  The  Bahamas  welcomes 

the opportunity to speak during this High-level Plenary 
the  future, 
A/65/PV.6
In 
(MDGs) 
the  face  of 
these  many  challenges, 
Meeting,  as  it  marks  a  pivotal  point  on  the  road  to 
achieving the Goals we set out 10 years ago. 

For  the  Bahamas,  attaining  and  surpassing  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
figure 
prominently  in  our  national  policy  considerations. 
While 
the  Bahamas  has  undertaken  an  array  of 
activities in an effort to achieve the MDGs — and it is 
projected  that  the  Bahamas  will  indeed  achieve  many 
of the goals and targets identified in the process — it is 
important  to  note  that  such  assessments  often  do  not 
adequately reflect the high vulnerability of our country 
and  the  macroeconomic,  social  and  human  development 
challenges  that  we  face.  That  has  been  made  utterly 
apparent  by  the  deep  and  lasting  impact  of  the  global 
economic and financial crises in our country, as well as 
by  the  persistence  of  many  social  issues,  including 
rising levels of transnational crime, non-communicable 
and other diseases and social instability. 

the 
Bahamas has  been  able to  achieve notable progress in 
meeting the MDGs. In fact, at the High-level Meeting 
on  the  MDGs  that  took  place  here  at  the  United 
Nations  two  years  ago,  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Bahamas noted that we had not only achieved, but also 
surpassed, 
the  elimination  of 
poverty.  

the 
Bahamas  is  able  to  ensure  that  every  child  from  age 
five  is  able  to  attend  school,  and  that  we  meet  the 
yardstick  of  females  being  able  to  go  to  school  and 
having  equal  access  to  education,  as  well  as  the 
yardstick of female participation on the issue of gender 
equality. 

Prime Minister Ingraham added that, while more 
work needed to be done, the Bahamas is doing well in 
providing potable water throughout the country, in the 
treatment  of  HIV/AIDS  and  in  the  management  of 
infant and maternal mortality rates. 
The Bahamas, however, like so many countries of 

the Caribbean region, continues to confront significant 
challenges  with  respect  to  achieving  certain  targets, 
including  those  related  to  health  and  environmental 
sustainability,  and  generally  in  respect  of  capacity 
constraints  and  the  collection  of  statistical  data  to 
support the work being done in the country. Moreover, 
other  key  factors,  including  the  effects  of  the  global 
economic  and  financial  crisis  and  the  adverse  impacts 
The  Prime  Minister  also  revealed 
the  goal  regarding 
that 
10-54304 

53 

the 
community 
frameworks 
international 
that  connection, 
A/65/PV.6 

of  climate  change,  threaten  to  undermine  the  progress 
made thus far.  

In  view  of  these  realities,  we  call  for  a  greater 
sense of urgency in efforts to achieve the MDGs and to 
sustain  the  progress  already  made,  particularly  with 
respect to vulnerable countries like the Bahamas. 
While  national  efforts  are  central  in  that  regard, 

the 
in 
role  of 
complementing these efforts cannot be overstated. First 
and  foremost,  we  must  meet  our  commitments  under 
the MDG process and mobilize the necessary resources 
to  achieve  the  MDGs  and  to  sustain  the  progress 
already made.  
to  strengthen  accountability 

We  also  need 
levels  — 
that 
frameworks  at  all 
consolidate  global  aid  commitments,  link  them  to 
results with timelines — and establish monitoring and 
enforcement  mechanisms.  In 
the 
importance of partnerships in complementing the work 
of  Governments  must  also  be  highlighted.  We  must 
promote greater collaboration among Governments, the 
private  sector,  non-governmental  organizations,  civil 
society  and  other  stakeholders.  We  must  also  fully 
realize  the  interrelationship  of  efforts  to  achieve  the 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the  MDGs,  and  address  the  global  economic  and 
financial crisis and climate change. 

While  the  draft  outcome  document  (A/65/L.1)  is 
certainly not  as ambitious  as we would  have hoped in 
that  regard,  it  represents  hard-won  consensus  on  key 
areas  for  accelerating  the  achievement  of  the  MDGs. 
With  these  guiding  principles,  it  is  our  hope  that  we 
meet  the  challenges  of  our  time  with  the  necessary 
political  will  and  meaningful  action  at  all  levels  in 
order 
agreed 
development  goals,  including  the  MDGs,  within  the 
timelines we have set for ourselves. 
The Acting Chair (spoke in Arabic): I now give 

the floor to His Excellency Mr. Maged Abdelaziz, chair 
of the delegation of the Arab Republic of Egypt. 
Mr. Abdelaziz (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): At the 

outset,  on  behalf  of  Foreign  Minister  Ahmed  Aboul 
Gheit,  allow  me  to  express  our  deep  appreciation  for 
the 
the 
President  in  convening  a  meeting  at  this  critical  point 
to reaffirm the importance of achieving the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  10  years  after  their 
the  Secretary-General  and 
internationally 
initiative  of 
achieve 
the 
to 
to 
In 
has 
this 
The 
review 
financial 
therefore 
to  hamper 
international 
and 
experienced  many 
adoption, 
the  agreed-upon  will  and 
determination  to  carry  out  their  implementation,  to 
assess  what  has  been  accomplished  to  date  and  to 
identify the hurdles to the implementation process. 
economic 

environment 
negative 
developments,  including  increases  in  food  and  energy 
prices,  worsening  of  the  severe  consequences  of 
climate  change  and  the  impact  of  the  economic  and 
financial crisis which is affecting all countries. All this 
has  served 
the  ability  of  developing 
countries  to  achieve  the  MDGs  by  2015,  as  agreed  in 
international 
the  Millennium  Declaration.  The 
community  must 
take 
urgent 
and 
unprecedented  action  to  assist  the  global  partnership 
for  development  by  effectively  addressing 
the 
repercussions  of  the  crises,  supporting  the  efforts  of 
developing  countries  to  achieve  the  internationally 
agreed  development  goals,  including  the  MDGs,  and 
improving  those  countries’  capacity  to  meet  emerging 
challenges. 

regard,  many  developing  countries, 
including  Egypt,  have  adopted  strategies  and  policies 
aimed  at  addressing  poverty  and  improving  the  living 
standards of their citizens. They have also embarked on 
sound macroeconomic policies and carried out reforms 
in their tax codes and legislation.  Yet they continue to 
face  challenges  that  hinder  their  ability  to  achieve 
tangible  results.  Those  challenges  include  the  policy 
space available to them and their need to enhance their 
capacity  to  participate  in  international  economic  and 
financial systems and make their voices heard so as to 
improve 
implement 
development policies and to invest the maximum in the 
international  and  domestic  means  available  for  the 
eradication of poverty and the elimination of disease. 

Some  African  countries  have  made  progress,  as 
shown by positive indictors. However, the real problem 
remains  the  lack  of  sufficient  funding  due  to  the  non-
fulfilment  by  developed  countries  of  their  financial 
that  most  official  development 
obligations,  given 
assistance  (ODA) 
is  used  for  debt  cancellation. 
Consequently,  they  are  not  obliged  to  generate  new 
monetary flows for prompt use in development. Yet, it 
is of great importance to double the resources allocated 
to  achieving  the  MDGs,  given  the  inadequacy  of 
domestic  resources  in  developing  countries.  In  this 
context,  direct  foreign  investment  complements  aid  as 
a  source  of  external  financing  for  development, 
to  design  and 
their  ability 
54 

10-54304 
level, 
the  global 
the  fundamental  aim  of 


especially  for  the  transfer  of  modern  technology, 
production  techniques,  improved  management,  worker 
training, and so forth. 

In  our  view, 
this 
partnership is to work gradually to change the nature of 
the  relationship  between  developing  and  developed 
countries  from  a  donor-recipient  relationship,  based 
mainly  on  receiving  grants  and  aid  with  all  the 
associated  restrictions  and  conditions, 
to  a  new 
relationship.  The  new 
relationship  would  allow 
developing  countries  to  achieve  economic  growth  at  a 
rapid rate, enabling them to become full partners with 
the  developed  countries  in  an  international  economic 
environment  based  on  equality,  common  interests  and 
participation,  thereby  ensuring  their  continued  efforts 
towards sustainable development. 

Despite  the  negative  effects  of  the  successive 
economic crises and the subsequent decline in the rate 
of  assistance  at 
the  Egyptian 
Government has worked steadily towards achieving the 
MDGs,  and  there  is  time  for  further  progress  in  the 
next five years. Egypt has indeed come a long way in 
implementing ambitious political reforms, along with a 
development  plan  consisting  of  economic  and  social 
reforms aimed not only at accelerating implementation 
of the MDGs but also at raising the standard of living 
of  its  citizens  and  achieving  sustainable  development 
in the long term. 

In  this  area,  Egypt  has  implemented,  within 
available  resources,  an  ambitious  economic  reform 
plan  effectively  tackling  the  problems  ailing  society, 
including  reform  of  the  legislative  and  institutional 
infrastructure,  in  order  to  help  create  an  attractive 
environment for foreign investment. 
the 

welfare  of  the  child  at  the  heart  of  its  social  and 
economic development. To  this end, Egypt is working 
with  United  Nations  agencies  and  organizations,  the 
private  sector  and  non-governmental  organizations  on 
improving  children’s  well-being  and  health.  It  is 
placing  emphasis  on 
improvement  of  school 
nutrition  and  the  development  of  ambitious  initiatives 
in  this  area,  as  well  as  the  implementation  of  many 
other  integrated  programmes  in  the  fields  of  literacy, 
educational  quality,  gender  opportunity,  health  care, 
and social and child protection. In this context, as part 
of  its  regional  efforts  and  in  cooperation  with  the 
United  Nations World  Food  Programme,  Egypt,  under 
issues,  Egypt  has  put 
Regarding  social 
the 
A/65/PV.6
and 
that 
steps 
towards 
for  Gender  Equality 
the  patronage  of  its  First  Lady,  will  host  a  regional 
forum  on  21-22  February  2011  at  the  Bibliotheca 
Alexandrina,  on  the  power  of  nutrition  and  school 
meals  to  transform  the  lives  of  children  and  enable 
them to reach their potential. 

Furthermore,  Egypt  has  made  considerable 
progress towards achieving MDGs 4 and 5 through its 
success  in  reducing  child  and  maternal  mortality  by 
73 per  cent  and  68  per  cent  respectively.  We  look 
forward  to  accomplishing  these  two  MDGs  in  full  by 
2015. 
At  the  same  time  as  the  launch  of  the  United 

Nations  Entity 
the 
Empowerment  of  Women,  Egypt  has  taken  many 
positive 
improving  women’s 
participation  in  political  decision-making,  including 
the 
introduction  of  a  constitutional  amendment 
sanctioning  the  allocation  of  64  additional  seats  for 
women  in  Parliament. We  have  also  established  many 
councils and a coherent institutional structure to further 
the  empowerment  of  women,  so 
they  may 
contribute  actively  and  fully  to  advancing  society’s 
progress on all fronts, political, economic and social. 

We  strongly  believe  in  the  important  role  of 
South-South  cooperation,  which  aims  at  promoting 
efforts  by  developing  countries  to  achieve  the  MDGs. 
Through the Egyptian Fund for Technical Cooperation 
with  Africa,  Egypt  helps  many  African  countries  in 
capacity-building,  especially  in  the  areas  of  health, 
agricultural  development  and  education,  by  providing 
them  with  Egyptian  experts 
their 
institutions,  as  well  as  granting  scholarships  and 
organizing training courses and workshops for African 
citizens,  and  by  cooperating  with  international  and 
institutions and donor countries. 

to  see  a  new 
international  consensus  going  forward  beyond  2015 
that  takes  into  account  the  interests  of  middle-income 
countries,  since  most  MDGs  aim  at  very  basic 
humanitarian  needs  and  most  assistance  now  goes  to 
low-income  and  heavily  indebted  countries.  We  are 
confident 
that  a  more  comprehensive  view  of 
development  will  lead  to  the  achievement  of  all  our 
goals. 
The Acting  Chair:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Her 

Excellency  Mrs.  Janine  Coye-Felson,  chair  of  the 
delegation of Belize. 
In  conclusion,  Egypt  wishes 
to  strengthen 
10-54304 

55 

of 
democratic 
establishment 
A/65/PV.6 

Mrs.  Coye-Felson  (Belize):  Let  me  first  salute 

the Co-Chairs and everyone else for their endurance on 
this very long day. 

Twenty-nine  years  ago  to  this  very  day,  Belize 
became an independent country. I was a child then and 
for  me,  as  for  every  other  child  of  that  time,  the 
concept of independence was foreign. For our parents, 
independence  meant  freedom  and  the  opportunity  for 
their children to be the authors of their future through 
the 
institutions 
representing and reflecting the voice of the people. 

Indeed,  until  children  reach  adulthood,  we  —  as 
parents,  as  citizens  of  the  global  community,  as 
political  actors  —  bear  responsibility  for  their  future. 
Each  and  every  one  of  us  becomes  a  caretaker, 
ensuring that our children have the basic necessities of 
life.  We  must  provide  them  with  a  decent  standard  of 
living, education, a healthy environment, and security, 
to  allow  them  to  realize  their  full  potential.  Their 
future is dependent on what we do now. And at present 
we run the risk of squandering that future. 

A  child  orphaned  by  disease  or  disaster, 
unprotected by the State, does not go to school. A child 
crippled  by  hunger  or  maimed  by  war  cannot  go  to 
school. For every child who is forced into the fields or 
industry, for every child who is forced to pick up a gun 
and not a book, we have forsaken their future and in so 
doing  we  have  forsaken  our  own.  Study  after  study 
reinforces  this  reality  —  that  a  path  to  development 
rests with investment in our children and their mothers. 
A  healthy  mother  begets  a  healthy  child. An  educated 
mother  is  empowered  to  better  provide  a  nurturing 
environment  that  begets  opportunities  for  her  child. A 
healthy,  educated  mother  and  child  embody  potential 
not only of their own but for their community and their 
economy.  Investment  in  our  children  and  women  will 
break the cycle of poverty. 

is  not  accepted 
practice.  Progress  towards  the  reduction  of  maternal 
mortality 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals 
(MDGs).  Gender  gaps  are 
pervasive  throughout  the  world.  Women  suffer  from 
violence, a lack of basic rights, and a lack of access to 
education, health care, technology and income. Gender 
discrimination 
that 
entrenches the gulf between the haves and have-nots of 
this world. 
is  a  universal  cultural  blight 
this  accepted  wisdom 
the  slowest  among 
But 
is 
in 
Investing 
economic 
advantage. 
finds  herself 
society  have 

In the words of a young mother, widowed by the 
devastating  earthquake  that  struck  Haiti  and  left  her 
destitute in a camp, we must do something. Her cry of 
desperation  echoes  throughout  the  world.  It  is  the  cry 
of  every  woman  who 
similarly 
marginalized  and  forlorn.  But  they  cannot  stand  here 
before you and make that plea. It behooves us, then, as 
their representatives, to heed that clarion call. 

Belize  applauds  and  welcomes  the  initiative  of 
the Secretary-General in launching the Global Strategy 
for Women’s and Children’s Health. We also call upon 
the global private sector to partner in this initiative. If 
they cannot be prompted to act by the weight of moral 
suasion,  then  perhaps  they  should  consider  the  weight 
of 
female 
empowerment  translates  into  increased  productivity, 
improved quality, and wider profit margins as a result 
of an expanded consumer base. 

long 
Government  and  civil 
shouldered  the  responsibility  for  the  empowerment  of 
women  and  the  plight  of  our  children.  It  is  time  for 
those  who  depend  on  our  mothers’  labour  and  that  of 
their  progeny  to  share  in  that  responsibility.  Together 
we  can  do  something.  Together  we  can  make  a 
difference. 

In the early morning of 12 September, only a few 
days  after  Belizeans  celebrated  a  day  when  our 
forefathers  emerged  victorious  in  the  Battle  of  St. 
George’s  Caye  —  a  defining  moment 
for  our 
nationhood  and  sovereignty  —  another  battle  was 
waged  in  an  impoverished  neighbourhood  in  Belize 
City.  It  ended  in  the  death  of  an  eight-year-old  girl 
deep  in  slumber.  One  would  expect  that  such  a  loss 
would  have  inspired  murderous  rage.  Instead  that 
child’s  mother  spoke  with  absolute  resolve  and 
complete  faith  that  her  daughter’s  death  would  be 
avenged  in  justice.  Her  expectations  are  no  different 
from those of the young mother in Haiti, as we hear in 
her quiet words that plead for something to be done. 

We as a nation, Belize and her people, affirm our 
determination to recapture the potential of now, so that 
our  children’s  generation  and  the  generations  beyond 
are  enabled to define their future. In the words of our 
national  prayer,  we 
that  “all  our 
endeavours 
liberty, 
justice, 
national  happiness,  the  increase  of  industry,  sobriety 
and useful knowledge”. 
resolve 
to  peace,  social 
tend 
thus 
56 

10-54304 
is 
in  2009.  It 
indicates 
towards 


The  Acting  Chair:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Henry  Leonard  Mac-Donald,  chair  of 
the delegation of the Republic of Suriname. 
Mr.  Mac-Donald  (Suriname):  In  taking  a  closer 

look  at  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs), 
we have to conclude that there is nothing extraordinary 
about  them    but  that  they  are  merely  reminders  of 
simple  human  needs  and  basic  rights  that  every 
individual  around  the  world  should  be  able  to  enjoy: 
freedom  from  extreme  poverty  and  hunger,  quality 
education, productive and decent employment, equality 
between women and men, good health and shelter, the 
right of women to give birth without risking their lives, 
and a sustainable living environment. 

In  cooperation  with  the  national  MDG  Steering 
Committee,  which 
a  national  network  of 
governmental  and  non-State  actors  responsible  for 
monitoring the implementation of MDGs in Suriname, 
the  Government  of  Suriname  produced  its  second 
MDG  progress  report 
that 
remarkable  progress  has  been  made 
the 
achievement  of  the  Goals.  Of  significance  is  the 
success  story  whereby  the  total  number  of  diagnosed 
cases  of  malaria  in  Suriname  was  reduced  by  90  per 
cent from 2001 to 2008 and the malaria mortality rate 
was reduced to zero from 2005 to 2008. 

But  the  report  also  notes  that  there  have  been 
setbacks and that there are still a number of challenges 
in  areas  such  as  school  enrolment  in  the  hinterland, 
sustainable  employment  for  young  people,  better 
access for pregnant women to health care, birth control 
and  essential  medicine,  and  ensuring  a  sustainable 
living environment. 

Suriname  stands  firm  in  its  commitment  to 
achieve  the  MDGs  by  2015.  The  inaugural  speech  of 
our  newly  elected  President,  His  Excellency  Desiré 
Delano  Bouterse,  and  the  recent  coalition  manifesto 
that will guide our policies for the coming years have 
set out many aspirations and objectives to deal with the 
concerns stated earlier and whose realization will lead 
to the achievement of the MDGs in Suriname. 

Many developing countries have made significant 
progress. However, it is clear that improvements in the 
lives of the poor have been unacceptably slow and that 
the hard-won gains are being threatened by the climate, 
food,  and  economic  and  financial  crises  and  by 
persistent disparities and inequalities among and within 
nations.  Further,  the  acceleration  of  progress  over  the 
A/65/PV.6
in 
peace 
the  need 
this  endeavour 
next  five  years  will  need  to  focus  on  continuing  the 
proven  strategies,  policies  and  interventions  and  on 
making a radical break with those that do not work. 

With  90  per  cent  of  its  total  land  area  forested, 
Suriname ranks extremely high in the world as a high-
forest  low-deforestation  country.  As  we  speak,  our 
forests  are  making  significant  contributions  to  the 
global community in terms of biodiversity conservation 
and  mitigation  of  climate  change. Although  we  prefer 
to  keep  our  forest  standing  in  order  to  continue 
providing  those  and  other  ecosystem  services  to  the 
global  community,  we  are  concerned  about  doing  that 
at  the  cost  of  the  sustainable  development  of  our 
people.  In  that  light,  we  are  ready  to  welcome  with 
appreciation the support of members of this Assembly 
who would  be willing to stand with us  and to support 
us 
through  provision  of  such 
resources as finance, technology and capacity support. 

In our view, the realization of the MDGs requires 
a collective approach integrating national, regional and 
international  cooperation,  which  will  also  benefit 
various  crucial  developments  in  the  world  such  as 
international 
and 
sustainable 
development  and  economic 
including 
through  fair  trade.  In  that  regard,  the  achievement  of 
Goal  8,  on  global  partnerships,  still  remains  a 
challenge  —  specifically  since  efforts  to  step  up 
official  development  assistance  (ODA)  have  been  set 
back  and 
its  volume,  quality  and  predictability 
continue  to  be  far  lower  than  the  agreed  levels.  We 
again  underline 
for  greater  political 
commitment  on  the  part  of  all  donors.  Such  political 
commitments  should  be  reflected  in  ODA  timetables 
and would enable predictable and timely availability to 
meet the MDGs, as we have agreed internationally. 
This  last  point  is  of  further  concern  given  that, 

according 
the  Secretary-General 
(A/64/665),  the  world  possesses  the  resources  and 
knowledge  to  ensure  that  even  the  poorest  countries, 
and  others  held  back  by  disease,  geographic  isolation 
or  civil  strife,  can  be  empowered  to  achieve  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  Here  again  we  take 
the  opportunity  to  support  the  concept  that  economic 
and  social  development  is  the  centerpiece  of  the 
objectives  and  operational  activities  of  the  United 
Nations. 

Allow  me  to  highlight  the  issue  of  the  emerging 
health  crisis  caused  by  the  increasing  incidence  and 
security, 
integration, 
the  report  of 
to 
10-54304 

57 
In 
in 
Suriname 
reiterates 
conclusion, 
indicators 
for 
assessing  progress  on 
the  spirit  of  solidarity 
A/65/PV.6 

prevalence  of  non-communicable  diseases.  Such 
diseases  account  for  more  than  half  of  all  deaths 
worldwide  and  significantly  reduce  life  expectancy, 
quality  of 
life  and  productivity.  Although  non-
communicable  diseases  are  currently  not  included  in 
the 
the 
achievement  of  the  MDGs,  they  undoubtedly  have  a 
negative impact. The  poorest  people,  who  are  among 
the  most  vulnerable  to  those  diseases,  have  the  least 
access to health interventions, which ultimately drives 
them further into poverty and deprivation. We therefore 
strongly  support  the  call  for  integrating  relevant 
indicators  into  the  MDG  monitoring  and  evaluation 
system. 

its 
In 
commitments to realize sustainable development and to 
achieve the  MDGs by the target date of 2015,  as well 
as  our  readiness  to  join  the  international  community 
and  partners  in  complementing  national  efforts  and 
accelerating  actions  in  the  relevant  framework  of  the 
development activities of the United Nations system. 

international 
cooperation,  Suriname  is  also  strongly  in  favour  of 
South-South  and  triangular  cooperation  as  a  means  of 
enhancing  the  cross-fertilization  of  best  practices, 
knowledge  sharing  and  capacity-building  among 
developing countries. Our experience with the success 
in  eradicating  malaria  mortality 
is 
testimony  of  the  fact  that  Goals  are  achievable  when 
nationally  owned  development  strategies,  policies  and 
programmes 
international 
development partners. 
The  Acting  Chair:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency Mr. Dalius Čekuolis, chair of the delegation 
of the Republic of Lithuania. 
Mr. Čekuolis (Lithuania): I would like to make a 

statement  on  behalf  of  Mr.  Audronius  Ažubalis, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the  Republic  of 
Lithuania.  

Ten  years  since  the  Millennium  Summit,  the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs)  remains  uneven,  both  in  terms  of  geography 
and the level of progress on specific goals. Challenges 
both  old  and  new  threaten  to  slow  down  and  even 
reverse  the  progress  achieved  so  far.  This  High-level 
Meeting offers an excellent occasion for us all to renew 
and refocus the commitments we made 10 years ago. 
in  Suriname 
are 
supported 
by 

illegal  migration,  human 

Development cooperation is in the natural interest 
of  all  countries  —  big  and  small,  recipients  and 
donors —  since  persistent  poverty,  underdevelopment 
and  neglect  of  basic  human  rights  provide  a  fertile 
ground for extremism and radicalization and add to the 
problems  of 
trafficking, 
transborder  crime  and  a  variety  of  other  complex 
problems  that  affect  us  all. Those  problems  cannot  be 
resolved by any one country alone. 

As responsible democratic Governments, we must 
first and foremost respond to the worries and concerns 
of  our  citizens  affected  by  the  recent  economic 
slowdown by doing everything in our power to enable 
financial  recovery  and  to  set  our  national  economies 
back  on  track.  At  the  same  time,  we  must  live  up  to 
existing  development  commitments  and  pledges  and 
make sure that the implementation of the MDGs is kept 
on track. 

Importantly,  development  cooperation  pays  back 
as  countries  emerge  from  poverty  and  instability, 
creating a safer environment for trade, investment and 
business  opportunities  for  all.  However,  development 
funds are not limitless, and references to donor fatigue 
are increasingly common. 

As  we  move  towards  2015,  we  need  make  sure 
that  not  one  penny  of  development  money  is  wasted, 
that  development  efforts  are  more  coherent  and  more 
effectively  coordinated  and 
that  duplication  and 
wasteful practices are avoided. We believe that further 
efforts  to  ensure  system-wide  coherence  are  highly 
pertinent  in  that  regard.  My  country  will  continue  to 
support them. 

Mutual accountability,  aid effectiveness, targeted 
results-oriented  investment  of  development  funds  and 
the mobilization of domestic policies and resources are 
key  to  progress  in  achieving  the  MDGs.  Lithuania 
welcomes  the  proposal  by  European  Union  (EU) 
Commissioner  Piebalgs  regarding  the  MDG  initiative 
that  provides  for  a  part  of  the  reserves  of  the  tenth 
European Development Fund to be used to increase EU 
support to African, Caribbean  and Pacific countries in 
their  efforts  to  reach  the  MDGs.  We  believe  that 
initiative 
increasing  aid 
effectiveness. 

Speaking  from  our  own  experience,  Lithuania 
underlines the importance for MDG implementation of 
good  governance  at  all  levels  and  of  solid  democratic 
institutions responsive to the needs of people, based on 
is  a  right  step 
towards 
58 

10-54304 
by 
income 
national 
After  restoring 


the  key  principles  of  participation,  accountability  and 
transparency. Countries with recent reform experience, 
such  as  Lithuania,  can  assist  developing  nations  in 
their  efforts  to  reform  tax  and  administration  systems 
in  order  to  increase  revenue  and  mobilize  domestic 
resources  along  with  external  aid  for  sustainable 
development and the achievement of the MDGs. 

independence  20  years  ago, 
Lithuania  moved  quickly  from  a  recipient  to  a  donor 
country.  In  the  past  five  years  alone,  Lithuania’s 
official development assistance (ODA) increased four-
fold.  In  line  with  overall  EU  commitments,  Lithuania 
is working to meet the ODA target of 0.33 per cent of 
gross 
2015.  Lithuania’s 
development  cooperation  focuses  on  areas  where  we 
have a comparative advantage that arises from our own 
State-building  experience,  namely,  good  governance 
and democratic reform, the rule of law and building a 
functioning  market  economy,  sustainable  development 
and education. 

In terms of development partners, we started out 
by  focusing  on  a  relatively  small  number  of  countries 
in  Eastern  Europe  and  the  South  Caucasus.  Today, 
Lithuania’s development cooperation is reaching out to 
more  distant  regions,  from Afghanistan  to  the  Middle 
East. 

leads  a 
provincial reconstruction team in the province of Ghor, 
we  have  focused  on  Goal  2  by  providing  training  for 
teachers, supporting and promoting primary education, 
building  schools  and  supplying  necessary  teaching 
material. We also carried out a number of programmes 
related  to  Goals  4  and  5,  such  as  those  on  the  

In  Afghanistan,  where  Lithuania 
A/65/PV.6
to 
initiated  by 
turn  briefly 
Let  me  now 
vaccination  of  children  and  women  of  child-bearing 
age  and  on  providing  health-care  services  and 
supplementary  nutrition  for  pregnant  women.  In  that 
context, we welcome the joint action plan for women’s 
and  children’s  health 
the  Secretary 
General. We look forward to more  active involvement 
by  the  United  Nations  and  multilateral  donors  in  the 
Ghor province of Afghanistan. 

to  women  and 
development.  Empowerment  of  women  and  their  full 
participation  at  all  levels  of  economic,  political  and 
social  life  are  key  to  poverty  reduction,  economic 
recovery and prosperity and to the full enjoyment of all 
human rights by all.  

We  cannot  expect  substantial  progress  on  the 
MDGs  globally  if  women  are  left  out  or  treated  as 
second-class  citizens.  Full  participation  by  women  is 
also  essential 
to  building  vibrant  and  durable 
democracies  around  the  world.  Educating  girls  and 
women  and  promoting  women’s  access 
full 
employment, decent work and working conditions and 
to credit and resources have a natural multiplier effect 
on the entire economy, and thus on overall progress in 
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  We 
therefore  support  further  mainstreaming  of  the  gender 
perspective 
and  multilateral 
development policies and projects. Also in that context, 
we welcome  the recent creation of UN Women — the 
United  Nations  Entity  for  Gender  Equality  and  the 
Empowerment  of  Women.  We  hope  it  will  be  a 
powerful 
supporting  development 
progress worldwide. 




  The meeting rose at 9.40 p.m. 
in  both  national 
instrument 
in 
10-54304 

59 
