
A/65/PV.48
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

48th plenary meeting 

Thursday, 11 November 2010, 10 a.m. 
New York 




President:  Mr. Deiss  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .





  The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m. 
Agenda items 29 and 119 

(Switzerland) 




Agenda item 110 

Notification by the Secretary-General under 
Article 12, paragraph 2, of the Charter of the 
United Nations 


  Note by the Secretary-General (A/65/300) 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  As  Members 

are aware, in accordance with the provisions of Article 
12,  paragraph  2,  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
and  with  the  consent  of  the  Security  Council,  the 
Secretary-General  is  mandated  to  notify  the  General 
Assembly  of  matters  relating  to  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security  that  are  being  dealt 
with by the Security Council and of matters with which 
the Council has ceased to deal. 

In  that  connection,  the  Assembly  has  before  it  a 
note  by  the  Secretary-General,  issued  as  document 
A/65/300. 
May I take it that the Assembly takes note of this 

document? 

It was so decided. 
The  President  (spoke  in  French):  The Assembly 
thus  concluded 
its  consideration  of  agenda 

has 
item 110. 
Report of the Security Council (A/65/2) 

Question of equitable representation on and increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and 
related matters 
in  French):  The 
The  President  (spoke 

two 

important  items  on  the  agenda  for  our  joint  debate 
concern  the  Security  Council.  I  am  happy  to  welcome 
the  President  of  the  Security  Council,  His  Excellency 
Sir Mark Lyall Grant, who will shortly present to us the 
Security  Council report (A/65/2). That report is  one of 
the  important  instruments  of  interaction  between  the 
Council and the Assembly. It is therefore essential that 
it should serve as the basis for a substantive debate. 

Our  meeting  today  is  an  opportunity  for  us  to 
study  the  progress  and  the  challenges  confronting  the 
Council,  as  well  as  to  reflect  on  the  strengthening  of 
cooperation  between  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security  Council,  so  that  together  those  two  bodies 
may  be  even  better  able  to  promote  the  values  and 
principles of the United Nations. Regular, close contact 
between  the  Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
the  Security  Council 
another 
instrument.  Since  taking  office,  I  have  met  all  the 
Presidents of the Security Council and will continue to 
do  so.  I  am  grateful  to  them  for  the  substantive 
discussions  we  have  had.  The  recent  adoption  by  both 
bodies  of  a  resolution  concerning  the  review  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission 
(General  Assembly 
resolution  65/7  and  Security  Council  resolution  1947 
constitutes 
also 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-63228 (E) 
*1063228* 

A/65/PV.48 


(2010))  has  also  shown  us  the  benefits  of  such 
cooperation. 

In recent years there has been positive movement 
towards  greater  transparency  in  the  Security  Council, 
and  it  is  important  that  those  efforts  continue.  That 
leads me to make a few remarks on the second item we 
will discuss today: Security Council reform. This is an 
essential  part  of  reaffirming  the  central  role  of  the 
United  Nations  in  global  governance.  In  that  regard,  I 
would like to stress that almost the entire world agrees 
that  we  need  to  adapt  to  the  changes  that  have  taken 
place in the world since 1945. 
That  is  why  I  convened  a  preliminary  informal 

I  had  confirmed 
meeting  on  21  October,  once 
Ambassador  Tanin 
as  Chair  of 
Intergovernmental  Negotiations.  It  is  essential  to  build 
on  existing  convergences  and  to  narrow  differences  of 
opinion in order to reach more tangible results. 
in  his 
role 
I  have  therefore  asked  Ambassador  Tanin  to 

continue  his  work  on  the  text  that  has  emerged  from 
the  second  revision  by  holding  open  and  transparent 
consultations.  I  call  on  all  Member  States  to  support 
him in his work. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  year,  we  will  take  stock 
and  consult  the  Assembly  on  the  follow-up  on  the 
intergovernmental negotiations process. 

It  must  be  very  clear  that  the  solution  is  in  the 
Assembly’s  hands.  It  is  Member  States’  determination 
to  make  something  of  that  process  that  will  lead  to 
progress  being  made.  It  is  therefore  essential  to 
demonstrate  flexibility,  willingness  to  compromise, 
good  faith,  creativity  and  mutual  respect 
in  an 
atmosphere that is transparent and inclusive. 
I  are  at 
Both  Ambassador  Tanin  and 
the 

Assembly’s  service  to  support  it  in  its  effort  to  find  a 
solution that enjoys widespread support. However, that 
effort  is  the  Assembly’s  responsibility.  I  welcome  the 
Assembly’s  views  on  the  agenda  items  and  hope  that 
our discussion will allow us to make progress. 

I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  President  of  the 
Security Council, His Excellency Sir Mark Lyall Grant, 
to introduce the report of the Security Council. 
Sir  Mark  Lyall  Grant
(United  Kingdom): 

Mr. President, on behalf of the members of the Security 
Council,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  you  on  your 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fifth  session.  As  President  of 
the  General 
Assembly,  Sir,  you  have  a  key  role  to  play  in  working 
with  the  Security  Council  to  enhance  and  strengthen 
the relationship between those two important organs of 
the United Nations. 
from  August  2009 

In  my  capacity  as  President  of  the  Security 
Council for November, it is my honour to introduce the 
annual  report  of  the  Council  to  the  General  Assembly 
as contained in document A/65/2. The report covers the 
July  2010.  The 
period 
introduction 
the 
delegation  of  Nigeria,  which  held 
the  Council’s 
presidency in July. On behalf of the Security Council, I 
wish to thank Ambassador Ogwu and her team for their 
efforts.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  Secretariat, 
which prepared the second part of the report. 
the  report  was  prepared  by 
to 
to 

There  is  always  room  for  improving  the  report.  I 
would  be  happy  to  pass  back  any  feedback  from  the 
General  Assembly  today  to  the  Security  Council. 
Transparency  in  the  Council’s  work  is  a  frequent 
request  of  the  wider  membership.  That  is  why  the 
Security  Council  holds  as  many  open  meetings  as 
possible  and  why  it  supports  the  live  broadcast  of  its 
meetings  on  the  Internet.  Another  tool  to  increase 
transparency  is  the  regular  meetings  between  the 
Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security 
Council,  which  provide  a  valuable  link  between  the 
Council  and  the  wider  membership.  We  also  urge 
Member  States  to  take  full  advantage  of  the  regular 
briefings  by  the  Security  Council  during  the  course  of 
the  year,  which  provide  details  of  the  Council’s 
discussions on issues of the day. 

The Security Council has adopted other measures 
to  increase  transparency  in  its  work  in  the  recent  past 
and  will  consider  ways  to  do  it  further  in  the  future.  I 
would  draw  attention  to  the  adoption  of  a  new 
presidential note adopted by the Council on its working 
methods  (S/2010/507),  which  is  aimed  at  enhancing 
transparency,  interaction  with  non-Council  members 
and  efficiency.  That  note  takes  into  account  many  of 
the views expressed by Member States during the open 
debate on the Council’s  working  methods in April (see 
S/PV.6300). 

Some  long-running  situations,  including  in  the 
Middle  East,  Cyprus  and  Western  Sahara,  remain 
unresolved,  as  do  issues  in  which  the  Council  has 
become  engaged  in  recent  years,  including  Nepal  and 
Guinea-Bissau.  Huge  challenges  remain  in  the  Sudan, 
2 

10-63228 


Somalia  and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo. 
But  there  have  been  some  successes,  and  the  Council 
has  worked  to  make  progress  across  the  board  in  what 
has  been  a  busy  year.  I  would  like  to  touch  on  those 
situations in more detail today. 

Over  the  past  year,  the  Council  has  maintained  a 
strong  thematic  focus  in  much  of  its  work.  Those 
themes  are  now  well  established  on  the  Council’s 
agenda: 
peacekeeping, 
protection  of  civilians,  children  and  armed  conflict, 
women  and  peace  and  security,  and  relations  with 
regional organizations. 
prevention 
conflict 
and 

The  tenth  anniversary  in  October  of  resolution 
1325  (2000)  on  women  and  peace  and  security  was  a 
landmark  event.  The  Council  adopted  a  presidential 
statement  that  supported  taking  forward  a  set  of 
indicators  as  a  framework  to  track  the  implementation 
of  resolution  1325  (2000)  in  situations  of  armed 
conflict,  post-conflict  and  other  relevant  situations 
(S/PRST/2010/22),  which  was  a  significant  step 
forward  and  an  important  signal  that  more  progress 
needs to be made to mainstream those ideas. There will 
be  a  high-level  review  of  the  implementation  of 
resolution 1325 (2000) in five years’ time. 

Overall,  there  has  been  significant  progress  over 
the  past  couple  of  years  in  the  Council’s  thematic 
work.  The  challenge  now  is  to  translate  the  thematic 
resolutions into real actions on the ground. 
to  help  prevent 

Conflict  prevention  remains  a  key  focus  for  the 
Security  Council.  Council  members  believe  that  the 
Council,  working  with  the  United  Nations  as  a  whole, 
must  work  more  effectively 
the 
outbreak of violent conflict and not be confined merely 
to  responding  after  the  event.  Preventing  conflict  is, 
first  and  foremost,  the  responsibility  of  each  national 
Government,  but  we  must  continue  to  ensure  that  the 
Security  Council  has  access 
to  early  warning 
analysis —  we  have  made  some  improvements  in  that 
regard in the past year — and that we are also able and 
willing  to  take  decisions  on  the  basis  of  that  analysis, 
which can help prevent violent conflict. We should also 
support  strong  and  capable  machinery  for  United 
Nations  mediation  and  preventive  diplomacy  and 
ensure  that  our  collective  efforts  to  support  social  and 
economic  development  can  lessen  the  potential  for 
people 
their 
grievances. 
in  redressing 
to  violence 
to  resort 
A/65/PV.48
United 
effective 
the  coming  year, 

The Security Council has intensified its efforts to 
conduct  a  transparent  and  inclusive  dialogue  aimed  at 
developing  more 
Nations 
peacekeeping.  In  a  series  of  formal  and  informal 
debates among peacekeeping stakeholders, the Council 
has  worked  to  build  consensus  towards  substantial 
reform.  Over 
the  Council  will 
continue  to  engage  constructively  with  the  troop-  and 
police-contributing  countries,  regional  organizations 
and  non-governmental  organizations  and  civilian  and 
military  leaders  from  field  missions.  The  Security 
Council  Working  Group  of  the  Whole  on  United 
Nations  Peacekeeping  Operations  has  brought  Council 
members  together  with  troop-  and  police-contributing 
countries  informally  to  discuss  both  cross-cutting  and 
mission-specific peacekeeping issues. There  have  been 
important  contributions  from  the  Secretariat,  from  the 
President  of 
the 
Committee  of  34,  i.e.  the  Special  Committee  on 
Peacekeeping  Operations, 
the  Fifth 
Committee, which have worked in parallel and together 
to form the United Nations peacekeeping partnership. 
the  General  Assembly, 
from 
and 
from 

The  Security  Council  has  welcomed  the  report 
presented  by  the  co-facilitators  on  the  review  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  (PBC),  which  aims  at 
delivering  better  results  on  the  ground  and  improving 
the work of the Commission. The Council supports the 
work of the Commission and is willing to make greater 
use  of  its  advisory  role.  It  is  important  that  the 
Commission  now  take  up  the  challenge  by  helping  to 
remove  obstacles  to  peace,  such  as  by  promoting 
progress  in  security  sector  reform  in  Guinea-Bissau; 
promoting 
in 
Burundi;  completing  a  comprehensive  disarmament, 
demobilization  and  reintegration  programme  in  the 
Central African Republic; helping to build institutional 
capacity in Sierra  Leone; and strengthening the rule of 
law in Liberia. 
former  combatants 
reintegration  of 

The  Council’s  work  on  peace  and  security 
continues  to  depend  on  the  effectiveness  of  measures 
taken  under  various  sanctions  regimes.  Significant 
advances  in  both  the  policy  and  practice  of  sanctions 
regimes  were  achieved  in  the  past  year.  They  include 
the  adoption  of  more  detailed  and  precise  Security 
Council resolutions containing more targeted measures, 
and  fairer  and  clearer  procedures  for  listing  and 
the  appointment  of  an 
delisting. 
ombudsperson  for 
the  Security  Council  sanctions 
committee  established  pursuant  to  resolution  1267 
In  particular, 
10-63228 

3 
A/65/PV.48 


(1999)  regarding  Al  Qaida  and  the  Taliban  is  a 
significant  and  welcome  development.  However,  there 
remain challenges. For example, there should be better 
coordination  and  information-sharing  among  States, 
and  between  States  and 
sanctions 
committees. 
the  various 
through 

In  addition  to  the  work  of  the  sanctions  regimes, 
the  Security  Council  has  also  actively  worked  towards 
international  security 
its  non-proliferation 
efforts.  They  include  the  adoption  of  resolution  1887 
(2009),  which  addressed 
issues  of  nuclear 
non-proliferation  and  nuclear  disarmament,  and  the 
ongoing  work  of  the  Security  Council  Committee 
established  pursuant  to  resolution  1540  (2004).  That 
work includes  a comprehensive review  of the  status of 
the  implementation  of  resolution  1540  (2004),  and 
improved 
assistance 
coordination. 
transparency 
technical 
and 
the 

The Counter-Terrorism Committee also continued 
its  core  work  on  assessing  States’  implementation  of 
resolutions  1373 
(2005)  and 
facilitating  assistance  where  needed.  It  improved  its 
outreach  and  transparency  by  increasing  its  open 
thematic briefings. 
(2001)  and  1624 

The  Council’s  annual  report  illustrates  the  range 
of  geographical  issues  that  were  considered  in  the 
reporting  period.  I  would  like  to  draw  attention  to  a 
few  particular  cases  that  will  continue  to  occupy  the 
Council in the coming year. 

We  can  expect  the  situation  in  the  Sudan  to 
continue  to  occupy  the  Security  Council  in  the  year 
ahead.  The  increased  rhythm  of  Council  engagement 
on the Sudan issue in 2009 and 2010 demonstrated the 
Council’s  commitment  both  to  the  Sudan  and  to 
conflict  prevention.  Whatever  the  outcome  of  the 
referendums  on  the  status  of  Southern  Sudan  and 
Abyei,  the  Security  Council  will  have  a  continuing 
interest  in  the  peace  and  prosperity  of  all  Sudanese 
people. 

The  Council  has  also  followed  developments  in 
Darfur closely, including the security and humanitarian 
situation,  and  the  Doha  peace  process,  which  the 
Council  has  called  on  all  rebel  groups  to  join  without 
further  delay  and  without  preconditions.  The  Council 
visited  the  Sudan  in  October,  and  will  continue  to 
monitor  the  work  of  its  two  peacekeeping  missions  in 
the  Sudan,  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  the  Sudan 
the  African  Union-United  Nations  Hybrid 
and 
Operation in Darfur. 

Somalia  is  one  of  the  most  complex  challenges 
facing  the  Council  today,  and  will  likely  be  an  even 
bigger  issue  in  2011.  Progress  will  require  enhanced 
dialogue  and  cooperation  between  the  United  Nations 
and the African Union (AU). More broadly, the United 
Nations relationship  with  the African  Union,  including 
the  Security  Council’s  relationship  with  the AU  Peace 
and  Security  Council,  needs  to  be  placed  on  a  more 
strategic footing, as that relationship will be critical for 
peace and security in Africa. 

The  situation  in  the  Middle  East  remains  a 
priority  for  the  Security  Council.  In  June,  the  Council 
issued  a  statement  following  the  tragic  Gaza  flotilla 
incident (S/PRST/2010/9), and in August welcomed the 
establishment by the Secretary-General of the Panel of 
Inquiry.  Council  members  have  consistently  agreed  on 
the  need  for  a  negotiated  peace  in  the  Middle  East, 
leading  to  a  two-State  solution.  Looking  ahead,  the 
Security  Council  will  want  to  see  substantive  progress 
towards  a  comprehensive  peace  in  the  Middle  East. 
Council  members  will  continue  to  discuss  and  assess 
the situation in the Middle East on a regular basis. 
it  visited 
the  year.  In  May 
The  Security  Council  carried  out  a  number  of 

missions  during 
the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo to discuss the future 
of  United  Nations  engagement  in  that  country,  with 
particular 
the 
peacekeeping  mission  and  the  reconfiguration  of  the 
United  Nations  Organization  Mission 
the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  to  the  United 
Nations  Organization  Stabilization  Mission 
the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo. 
the  mandate 
reference 
for 
to 
in 
in 
(UNAMA) 
In June, the Security Council visited Afghanistan, 

where  it  met  President  Karzai,  his  ministerial  team, 
members  of  the  opposition,  parliamentarians  and  civil 
society.  The  Council  saw  at  first-hand  the  excellent 
work  of  the  United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  in 
Afghanistan 
and  Special 
Representative  of  the  Secretary-General  Staffan  de 
Mistura in particular — in delivering their mandate and 
coordinating 
the  overall  civilian  effort.  The  visit 
underlined both the scale of the task in Afghanistan and 
the  Security  Council’s  commitment  to  Afghanistan’s 
future.  In  the  year  ahead,  the  Security  Council  will 
continue  to  offer  UNAMA  its  full  support  and  will 
encourage  UNAMA’s  leadership  in  aid  coherence  and 
team  — 
4 

10-63228 


strengthening  its  ties  with  the  International  Security 
Assistance Force in order to support security transition, 
political  outreach,  and  supporting  the  Government  of 
Afghanistan in implementing electoral reform. 

These are just a few of the issues that the Security 
Council  has  covered  in  the  reporting  period.  It  has 
examined  many  other  situations  on  the  ground,  from 
Haiti to Chad, and from Timor-Leste to Iraq. On behalf 
of all Security Council members, I should like to thank 
the  members  of 
this 
opportunity to introduce the report. I would also like to 
express  the  Security  Council’s  appreciation  for  the 
work of the Secretary-General and the Secretariat, with 
whom  it  works  very  closely,  and  whose  cooperation 
and  assistance  is  invaluable  in  helping  the  Council  to 
fulfil its mandate. 
the  General  Assembly  for 
Mr.  Abdelaziz  (Egypt):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak today on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 
At 
like 
to  express 
the  outset,  I  would 
the 

Movement’s  appreciation  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ali 
Abdussalam  Treki,  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  sixty-fourth  session,  for  his  efforts  in  advancing 
the important issue of Security Council reform. I would 
also  like  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  for  including  this 
issue  among  your  priorities  for  the  sixty-fifth  session, 
and  for  reaffirming  confidence  in  His  Excellency 
Ambassador  Zahir Tanin,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Afghanistan  to  the  United  Nations,  in  continuing  to 
serve as Chair of the intergovernmental negotiations on 
Security Council reform, in order to achieve maximum 
progress during the sixty-fifth session. 
also 
commends 
The  Movement 

you, 
Mr. President,  for  choosing  “Reaffirming  the  central 
role of the United Nations in global governance” as the 
central  theme  of  the  Assembly’s  sixty-fifth  session. 
That  noble  objective  can  only  be  achieved  through 
working on the delicate balance in the Charter between 
the principal organs of the United Nations, revitalizing 
the  work  of  the  General Assembly,  and  reforming  and 
expanding the Security Council. 

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  attaches  great 
importance  to  achieving  concrete  results  on  Security 
Council reform through intergovernmental negotiations 
and  in  accordance  with  General  Assembly  decision 
62/557 and subsequent decisions 63/565 and 64/568. In 
that 
is  clearly 
reflected  in  section  E  of  the  Sharm  el-Sheikh  Final 
Document  (A/63/965,  annex),  adopted  by  the  fifteenth 
the  Movement’s  position 
regard, 
A/65/PV.48
Summit Conference of Heads of State and Government 
of the Non-Aligned Movement. 
in 
be 
should 
addressed 
to  reflect 
the  needs  and 

The  Movement  believes  that  the  reform  of  the 
Security  Council 
a 
comprehensive,  transparent  and  balanced  manner,  in 
order 
interests  of  both 
developing  and  developed  countries  alike.  Reform 
should also aim at limiting and curtailing the use of the 
veto  with  a  view  to  its  ultimate  elimination.  The 
enlargement  of  the  Security  Council,  as  the  body 
primarily 
the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security,  as  well  as  the  reform 
of 
to  a  more 
democratic, more representative, more accountable and 
more effective Council. 
its  working  methods,  should 
responsible 
lead 
for 
In 
of 
that  context, 
the  heads  of  State  and 

Government 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
acknowledged  the  historical  injustices  against  Africa 
with regard to its representation in the Security Council 
and  expressed  support  for  increased  and  enhanced 
representation  of  the  African  continent  in  a  reformed 
Security  Council.  Moreover,  they  took  note  of  the 
common  African  position  as  reflected  in  the  Ezulwini 
Consensus and the Sirte Declaration. 

Improving  the  working  methods  of  the  Security 
Council  is  of  great  importance  to  the  Movement,  as 
reflected  in  the  relevant  paragraphs  of  the  Final 
Document of the  fifteenth  Summit of the  Non-Aligned 
Movement  and  in  several  initiatives  presented  by  the 
Movement  throughout  the  years  since  the  Security 
Council reform process was launched. Those initiatives 
include  and  are  not  limited  to  the  comprehensive 
negotiating paper submitted by the Movement in 1996, 
as  contained  in  the  report  of  the  Open-ended  Working 
Group  on the  Question of  Equitable  Representation on 
and  Increase  in 
the  Membership  of  the  Security 
Council  and  Other  Matters  related  to  the  Security 
Council (A/51/47). 

Transparency,  openness  and  consistency  are  key 
elements  that  the  Security  Council  should  demonstrate 
in  all  its  activities,  approaches  and  procedures.  The 
rules of procedure of the Security Council, which have 
remained provisional for more than 60 years, should be 
formalized 
the  Council’s 
transparency 
the 
Movement  rejects  any  attempts  to  use  the  Council  to 
pursue  national  political  agendas  and  stresses  the 
accountability.  Moreover, 
in  order 
improve 
and 
to 
10-63228 

5 
A/65/PV.48 


necessity  of  non-selectivity  and  impartiality  in  its 
work. 
the  functions  and  powers  of 

In  that  regard,  there  is  an  urgent  need  for  the 
Security Council to adhere to the powers and functions 
accorded  to  it  by  the  Member  States  under  the  United 
Nations  Charter.  The  Council  should  therefore  stop 
encroaching  on 
the 
General  Assembly  and 
the  Economic  and  Social 
Council  by  addressing  issues  that  traditionally  fall 
within  the  competence  of  those  organs.  The  Security 
Council  should  also  avoid  resorting  to  Chapter  VII  of 
the  Charter  as  an  umbrella  for  addressing  the  issues 
that  do  not  necessarily  pose  a  threat  to  international 
peace  and  security.  It  should,  rather,  fully  utilize  the 
provisions 
chapters,  where 
appropriate,  including  Chapters  VI  and  VIII,  before 
invoking Chapter VII, which should be the authority of 
last resort. 
relevant 
other 
of 
to 
serious  concern 

Security  Council-imposed  sanctions  remain  an 
issue  of 
the  Non-Aligned 
Movement.  The  use  of  sanctions  raises  fundamental 
ethical  questions  as  to  whether  sufferings  inflicted  on 
vulnerable groups in a targeted country are a legitimate 
means  of  exerting  pressure.  In 
the 
objectives  of  sanctions  regimes  should  be  clearly 
defined,  and  their  imposition  should  be  for  a  specific 
time  frame  and  be  based  on  tenable  legal  grounds  and 
should be lifted as soon as the objectives are achieved. 
The  conditions  demanded  of  the  State  or  party  on 
which  sanctions are  imposed should be clearly  defined 
and subject to periodic review. 
that  regard, 

Last  year,  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  noted that 
the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  continued  to 
be  a  procedural  overview  of  the  Council  meetings, 
activities  and  decisions.  Examining  this  year’s  report, 
we believe that there is a room for further improvement 
in  the  report  to  reflect  the  Council’s  challenges, 
assessments, 
the  decision-making 
processes followed in each of the cases covered within 
the reporting period. 
rationales  and 

In  our  view,  the  report  should  provide  more 
explanations  of  the  positions  on  the  different  issues 
considered in the Council, including cases in which the 
Council  failed  to  act,  particularly  those  relating  to 
international peace and security. It should also set forth 
the  reasons  behind  the  different  outcomes  emanating 
from  the  Council,  be  they  resolutions,  presidential 
statements, press releases or statements to the press. 

In  addition,  the  Council  should  submit  special 
reports  for  consideration  by  the  General  Assembly,  in 
accordance  with  Article  15,  paragraph  1,  and  Article 
24,  paragraph  3,  of 
the  United  Nations  Charter. 
Furthermore, 
interactions 
between the presidency of the Security Council and the 
wider  membership  of  the  United  Nations  during  the 
preparation  process  of  the  Council’s  annual  reports  be 
maintained,  which  could  contribute  to  enhancing  the 
quality of the reports. 
that  regular 
is  vital 
it 

I  would  like  to  say  a  few  words  more  in  my 
national  capacity.  I  associate  my  remarks  with  the 
statement 
the  Permanent 
Representative of Sierra Leone on behalf of the African 
Group. 
to  be  delivered  by 
in 
the 
is 
the 
that 
results 
Egypt  is  keen  to  achieve  tangible  progress  and 

reach  concrete 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  the  Security  Council  reform  based  on 
decision  62/557.  Paragraph  (d)  of  that  decision  clearly 
stipulates 
intergovernmental  negotiations 
should  be  based  on  proposals  submitted  by  Member 
States. 
the 
intergovernmental  nature  of  the  process  and  avoid 
jeopardizing  the  neutrality  and  impartiality  of  the 
President of the General Assembly and the Chair of the 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  especially  since  the 
main  objective  of  the  negotiations  is  to  ensure  the 
widest  possible  political  acceptance  by  the  Member 
States themselves. 
rationale 
preserve 
The 
to 
an 
have 
been 
clearly 
defined 
constitute 
and 
that  has 
The  five  key  issues  of  our  intergovernmental 

negotiations 
in 
paragraph (e) (ii)  of  decision  62/557.  They  remain 
inextricably 
integral, 
linked 
inseparable  package 
to  be  agreed  upon 
together.  Accordingly,  any  agreement  should  be  based 
on  full  consideration  of  all 
those  issues  without 
attempting to classify them into issues that constitute a 
point  of  convergence  and  issues  that  constitute  a  point 
of divergence, or attempting to avoid the most difficult 
issues  and  reach  agreement  on  easy  issues  that  could 
have been agreed years ago. We are not looking for just 
any agreement; rather, we are looking for an agreement 
that  would  have  the  desired  effect  on  the  power 
structure 
the  Security  Council,  which  simply 
requires that  we  concentrate on  reaching agreement on 
the easiest and most difficult topics at the same time. 
in 

Egypt, along with the African Group, continues to 
believe  that  States  and  groups  of  States  should  agree 
6 

10-63228 


in  past 
rounds  of 
first on principles,  substance, terms  and  criteria  before 
embarking  on  any  drafting  exercise.  They  should  also 
agree  on  the  form  of  that  drafting  exercise,  whether  it 
seeks 
to  compile  only  certain  specific  proposals 
presented 
intergovernmental 
negotiations or all of them together. That agreement on 
principles should include an institutional agreement on 
ways  and  means  to  rectify  the  serious  historical 
injustice to Africa as the only continent not represented 
in  the  category  of  permanent  membership  of  the 
Security Council and not adequately represented in the 
non-permanent  category.  Mere  reference  to  increasing 
African  representation  without  providing  details  is 
simply not enough. 

Egypt  reiterates  once  again  the  validity  and 
strength of the common African position represented in 
the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration. 
Limiting  the  expansion  of  the  Security  Council  to  the 
non-permanent  category  alone  is  not  an  option  for  us, 
as  it  will  neither  change  the  power  structure  of  the 
Council  nor  correct  the  historical  injustice  to  the 
African continent. 

Let  me  recall  here  that  Africa  is  opposed  in 
principle  to  the  veto  and  believes  that  it  should  be 
abolished,  but  as  long  as  it  continues  to  exist  and  as  a 
matter  of  common  justice,  it  should  be  extended  to  all 
new  permanent  members  of  the  enlarged  Security 
Council,  in  full  application  of the  principle  of  equality 
between current and new permanent members. 

In  that  context  and  with  a  view  to  dealing  with 
the  issue  of  the  Security  Council  reform  in  a  realistic 
manner,  Egypt  believes  that  the  negotiations  should 
deal effectively with the veto rights of new and current 
permanent  members  together,  including  the  misuse  or 
threat  of  use  of  the  veto  right.  That  approach  would 
necessitate  the  serious  consideration  of  restricting  the 
veto  right  of  current  and  new  permanent  members  to 
exclude,  at  a  first  stage,  cases  of  genocide,  ethnic 
cleansing, crimes against humanity, grave violations to 
international  humanitarian  law,  cessation  of  hostilities 
between  belligerent  parties  and  the  election  of  the 
the 
Secretary-General. 
commitment  of 
the 
international responsibility of the Security Council and 
of  all  members  of  the  General  Assembly  to  protect 
peoples  from  such  heinous  crimes,  rather  than  to 
protect, for political or other considerations, those who 
commit  such  crimes.  In  itself,  that  would  be  the 
maximum manifestation of genuine global governance. 
the  permanent  members 
That  will 
strengthen 
to 
A/65/PV.48

A balanced regional representation will be closely 
linked  to  the  size  of  the  enlarged  Security  Council. 
Therefore,  when  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  states  that 
Africa  is  demanding  no  less  than  two  permanent  seats 
with  all  the  prerogatives  and  privileges,  including  the 
right of veto, along with two additional non-permanent 
seats, that should be read in the sense that Africa might 
demand  more  permanent  seats  if  it  feels  that  other 
regions  smaller  in  number  are  getting  more  seats  than 
their ratio of representation. 

The African selection of candidates should not be 
seen  as  a  contradiction  to  Article  23  of  the  Charter, 
which  will  continue  to  govern  the  election  process  in 
the General Assembly. We also believe that an enlarged 
Security  Council,  with  at  least  26  seats,  will  not 
negatively affect the efficiency and effectiveness of the 
Council,  but  will 
and 
democracy. 
representation 
enhance 

Despite the continued efforts and attempts  within 
the  Security  Council  to  improve  its  working  methods, 
particularly those undertaken by the Council’s Informal 
Working  Group  on  Documentation 
and  Other 
Procedural  Questions,  as  reflected  in  the  note  by  the 
President  of  the  Security  Council  (S/2010/507),  none 
of those attempts meets the aspirations or the ambitions 
of  the  larger  majority  of  Member  States.  Moreover, 
focus  should  be  on  the  consideration,  adoption  and 
implementation  of  the  proposals  presented  in  that 
regard,  including  the  proposals  and  positions  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement and the Small Five. 

Regarding  the  issue  of  the  relationship  between 
the General Assembly and the Security  Council, Egypt 
stresses  that  encroachment  by  the  Council  on  the  role 
and functions of the Assembly should stop. The quality 
of  the  Council’s  annual  reports  submitted  to  the 
Assembly,  the  coordination  between  the  Presidents  of 
both  organs,  the  role  of  the  Assembly  on  questions 
relating  to  international  peace  and  security  and  in  the 
process  of  selecting  and  appointing  the  Secretary-
General  and  many  other  issues  must  be  dealt  with 
effectively. 
Different  proposals  have  been  made  for  an 

intermediate  approach.  Egypt  believes 
that 
approach  does  not  respond  to  African  demands,  as  it 
does  not  guarantee  a  true  expansion  of  the  permanent 
category and excludes granting the right of veto to new 
permanent members. 
that 
10-63228 

7 
A/65/PV.48 



That  new  approach  is  still  ambiguous,  and  we 
would  welcome  further  clarifications  from  its  authors 
concerning  its  final  objective,  the  duration,  renewal 
and  termination  of  intermediate  seats,  the  limitations 
on  veto  rights  for  current  and  new  members  in  the 
intermediate  phase,  the  period  of  transition,  the  rules 
that  would  be  applied  for  the  rotation  of  intermediate 
seats, and the exact details of the review stage. 

Enhanced  representation  of  developing  countries 
and  small  States in  the  Security  Council is also one  of 
the fundamental pillars of the reform process, since the 
adoption  of  resolution  48/26.  Egypt  stresses 
the 
necessity  takeoff  taking  duly  into  account  the  position 
of  members of the League  of Arab States demanding a 
permanent  seat  for  the  Arab  Group  in  any  future 
expansion in the category of permanent membership of 
the  Council,  as  reaffirmed  in  the  Sirte  Declaration 
adopted  by  the Arab  Summit  in  its  ordinary  session  of 
28  March  2010.  We  also  stress  the  necessity  takeoff 
taking  into  account the position  of  the  Organization  of 
the 
adequate 
representation  of  the  Muslim  Ummah  in  any  category 
of membership in the expanded Council. 
Islamic  Conference 
demanding 
and 
the  political  will  of  us  all, 
In conclusion, Egypt reiterates that what we need 

large  and  small, 
is 
developing 
permanent 
and 
non-permanent members, in order to achieve the results 
that  could  garner 
the  widest  possible  political 
acceptance,  and  I  hope  we  can  make  strides  towards 
that objective during the current session. 
developed, 
the  Pacific  small 
Mr. Aisi (Papua  New  Guinea): I  have  the  honour 

to  speak  on  behalf  of 
island 
developing  States  (SIDS)  represented  at  the  United 
Nations,  namely  Fiji,  Palau,  the  Republic  of  the 
Marshall  Islands,  Micronesia,  Nauru,  Samoa,  Solomon 
Islands,  Tonga,  Tuvalu,  Vanuatu  and  my  own  country, 
Papua New Guinea. 

We thank the United Kingdom for introducing the 
report  of  the  Security  Council  (A/65/2)  under  the 
agenda  item  before  us. The  Pacific  SIDS  welcome  the 
opportunity to participate in this debate on the question 
of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in  the 
membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters. 
The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  long 

overdue. 
the  2005  World  Summit  Outcome 
(resolution  60/1),  we,  the  international  community, 
committed  ourselves  to  early  reform  of  the  Council 
In 
because  we  recognized  that  reform  is  necessary  to 
increase  its  effectiveness  and  legitimacy.  Furthermore, 
the  reforms  will  properly  reflect  the  contemporary 
geopolitical and economic realities, rather than those of 
1945. 

It is therefore critical that we redouble our efforts 
to  achieve  success.  In  a  world  where  peace  is  not 
enjoyed  by  all,  we  must  ensure  that  the  body  charged 
with  the  primary  responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security  is  properly  structured 
to  enable  it  to  effectively  discharge  its  duties,  as 
detailed in the United Nations Charter. 

As a global community, our commitment to peace 
and  security  is  measured  by  our  commitment  to  the 
effectiveness of the system that we have put in place to 
safeguard  all  people  from  the  ravages  of  war  and 
conflict.  So  in  delaying  the  reform  of  the  Council,  we 
are  contributing  to  the  current  global  insecurity.  We 
urge all Member States to recognize the global good to 
be  achieved  by  a  reformed  Council,  one  that  is  more 
representative  of  the  people  whom  it  serves,  and  to 
urgently  enhance  our  work  so  that  we  conclude  this 
matter. 

The  position  of  the  Pacific  SIDS  on  a  reformed 
Security  Council  is  well  known.  In  relation  to  the 
question  of  categories  of  membership,  we  consider 
expansion  in  the  number  of  both  permanent  and  non-
permanent members to be critical. The Pacific SIDS do 
not  support 
the  creation  of  new  categories  of 
membership  in  a  reformed  Council,  such  as  a  new 
category of extended seats. 

The  current  composition  of  the  Council  does  not 
sufficiently represent all regions of the  world and does 
not  reflect  the  geopolitical  realities  of  this  century. 
That  is  most  obvious  in  the  case  of Africa,  where  it  is 
imperative that permanent seats be given to correct the 
injustices  of  the  past.  The  Group  of  Latin  American 
and  Caribbean  States 
is  also  not 
represented in the permanent category, while Asia, with 
only one permanent seat, is underrepresented. 
(GRULAC) 

The  redressing  of  that  imbalance  in  one  of  the 
major decision-making bodies of the United Nations is 
most critical  if  the  United  Nations reform  agenda  is  to 
be  properly  achieved.  Therefore,  the  Pacific  SIDS 
support  two  new  permanent  seats  for  Africa  and  one 
for  GRULAC.  We  also  support 
two  additional 
permanent  seats  for  Asia  and  one  for  the  Group  of 
8 

10-63228 


Western  European  and  other  States.  We  also  support 
five additional non-permanent members. 
The  expansion  of 

the  Council  as  we  have 
described it  attracts the  widest  convergence  among  the 
United  Nations  membership, and  we  urge  all  countries 
to show flexibility so that we can move forward on this 
issue. 
through 

The  existing  regional  group  arrangement  used  to 
propose members for a two-year non-permanent seat in 
the  Council 
the  concept  of  equitable 
geographical  distribution  also  requires  reform.  The 
existing  arrangement  is  no  longer  equitable  in  the 
distribution  or  selection  of  members  from  within  the 
regional  groups  to  serve  on  the  Council.  A  more 
democratic  and  fair  system  of  selection  and  a  more 
balanced  geographical  distribution  of 
subregions 
within the groups is required when proposals by groups 
for non-permanent seats in the Council are put forward. 
The option of allocating a seat to the small island 

developing  States  within  the  existing  group  structures 
must be included in some form of assurance, contained 
in  guidelines  that  could  be  part  of  a  realistic  reform 
process. Those assurances will afford the SIDS a  more 
balanced  opportunity  to  serve  in  the  Council  and  will 
reflect  a  more  democratic  sharing  of  the  concept  of 
equitable geographical distribution. 
In  relation  to  the  report  on  the  Council’s  work, 

we  are of  course  disappointed that  the  Council  did  not 
take  up  the  issue  of  climate  change.  We  urgently  call 
on  the  Council  to  begin  consideration  of  the  threats  to 
international  peace  and  security  posed  by  climate 
change.  Climate  change  threatens  to  place  tremendous 
stress on our national and international institutions and 
could displace millions of people around the world. 

In  our  region  of  the  Pacific,  climate  change  may 
result  in  the  physical  disappearance  of  entire  nations, 
with their populations rendered stateless. As the United 
Nations  body  that  holds  primary  responsibility  for  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security,  the 
Security  Council  has  a  duty  to  use  the  expansive 
powers  granted  to  it  under  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  to  respond  to  the  security  threat  posed  by 
climate change. 

In  the  summer  of  2009,  this  body  unanimously 
passed resolution 63/281, recognizing for the first time 
the  clear  connection  between  climate  change  and  its 
implications for international peace and security. In his 
A/65/PV.48
report  pursuant  to  that  resolution  (A/64/350),  the 
Secretary-General 
identified  several  pathways  by 
which  climate  change  can  threaten  international  peace 
and security. We agree with his statement that 

“the international community  must anticipate and 
prepare  itself  to  address  a  number  of  largely 
unprecedented  challenges  posed  by  climate 
change for which existing mechanisms may prove 
inadequate” (A/64/350, para. 101). 

We  agree  with  those  conclusions  and  consider  it 
imperative  that  the  Security  Council  begin  immediate 
consideration  of  actions  it  could  take  to  respond  to 
these growing threats. 

The  Security  Council  has  long  recognized  that  it 
must  act  to  prevent  disputes  before  they  arise.  To  the 
current Council members, we ask that they support this 
call  to  action  and  place  the  issue  on  the  agenda  for 
2011.  Given  the  enormity  of  the  threats  posed  by 
climate  change,  it  is  incumbent  upon  the  Council  to 
begin work on this enormous task at once. 
Mr.  Seger  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

have the honour to speak on behalf of the group of five 
small 
Jordan, 
Liechtenstein, Singapore and Switzerland. 
(S-5)  —  Costa  Rica, 
nations 

My  statement  will  address  both  agenda  items  29, 
“Report  of  the  Security  Council”,  and  119,  “Question 
of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in  the 
membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters”. 
With  regard  to  item  29,  the  S-5  welcome  the 

holding of a debate on the annual report of the Security 
Council  (A/65/2).  We  also  commend  the  efforts  of  the 
United  Kingdom,  as  the  current  President  of  the 
Council,  for  its  wise  initiative  to  introduce  an  element 
of  reflection  and  analysis  in  the  introduction  of  the 
report.  We  hope  that  other  Council  Presidents  will 
continue that practice. 
Nevertheless,  we  believe  that  the  time  has  come 

to  take  additional  steps  in  order  to  make  this  debate 
more  meaningful.  Such  measures  would 
involve 
changes  in  both  how  the  annual  report  is  drafted  and 
how  it  is  discussed  here. The  sixty-fifth  session  of  the 
General Assembly,  whose  overarching  theme  is  global 
governance,  gives  us  a  good  opportunity  to  reflect  on 
the  ways in  which the report, and the  manner in  which 
we consider it, could be improved. 
10-63228 

9 
A/65/PV.48 



Ideally,  the  discussions  of  the  Security  Council’s 
future reports should meet three criteria: they should be 
informal,  inclusive  and  interactive.  If  we  manage  that, 
we  will  be  able  to  draw  greater  and  more  tangible 
benefits  from  the  annual  report  in  the  context  of  our 
common  endeavour  to  strengthen  international  peace 
and security  while fully respecting the tasks,  mandates 
and  competencies  of  both  the  General  Assembly  and 
the Security Council. 
for 
responsibility 
The Charter of the United Nations clearly confers 

primary 
the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security on the Council. A more 
substantive  and  interactive  dialogue  between  the  two 
main organs of the United Nations, and among Member 
States,  on  the  annual  report  is  not  meant  to  challenge 
that  prerogative.  Nonetheless, 
the  Council  could 
benefit from stronger involvement of its members. That 
would  help  it  better  discharge  its  functions.  At  the 
same  time,  political  discussion  with  the  Members  of 
the  Organization  would  have  the  additional  advantage 
that the decisions taken by the Security Council  would 
enjoy  a  greater  sense  of  political  ownership  by  States 
that  would thus have a greater sense of involvement in 
them. 

In  that  sense,  the  annual  report  would  constitute 
an excellent opportunity not only to review the past but 
also  for  all  parties  to  draw  lessons  with  a  view  to 
improving  the  options  and  strategies  for  the  coming 
year and beyond. In  other  words,  the discussion  of  the 
report,  instead  of being  primarily retrospective,  should 
be  a  forward-looking  exercise.  Such  discussion  need 
not  be  a  formal  exercise;  indeed,  the  Five  propose  a 
more seminar-like format, which could take the form of 
a  series  of  workshops  focused  on  situations  and/or 
themes. 

Our ideas may seem like a quantum leap to some, 
but  the  fact  of  the  matter  is  that  the  debate  on  the 
report  of  the  Security  Council  has  become  stale  and 
ritualistic.  As  such,  it  has  lost  a  great  deal  of  its 
meaning.  If  we  truly  wish  to  work  together  towards 
international  peace  and  security  in  keeping  with  the 
Charter of the  United  Nations,  we  need to  be bold and 
innovative  to  get  more  out  of  this  annual  report.  The 
Five  therefore  invite  all  Member  States  to  reflect  on 
possible  improvements  during  this  sixty-fifth  session 
of the General Assembly. 

That  having  been  said,  the  Five  would  like  to 
make  the  following  remarks  on  this  year’s  report. 
Although  we  had  hoped  for  more  in  terms  of  the 
process  as  well  as  the  contents  of  this  report,  we  have 
seen some encouraging progress. 

With  regard  to  the  process,  we  welcome  the 
openness  displayed  by  Nigeria  in  holding  a  dialogue 
with Member States on the annual report. Nonetheless, 
that  all  Member  States  should  be 
we  propose 
substantively 
involved  at  an  earlier  stage 
the 
drafting process — for example, through an interactive 
open debate. We would also like to see those exchanges 
reflected in the annual report. 
in 

With regard to the contents of the report, we have 
noted some positive new elements in this year’s report, 
which could serve as a basis for further improvements. 
First,  we  commend  Nigeria  for  having  included  the 
analytical  summaries  of  some  of  the  presidencies, 
when available. Secondly, in the chapter on the Sudan, 
we  noted  a  new  practice  whereby  the  discussions 
within 
the 
Prosecutor  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  were 
reflected. In that context, we support and encourage the 
inclusion  of  an  analysis  of  the  current  challenges 
facing  the  Security  Council,  its  evaluations,  and  the 
rationale for its decisions. 
the  Council  following  a  briefing  by 
issues.  The  chapter  on 

Thirdly, the Five underscore the need to highlight 
the  linkages  between  thematic,  regional  and  country-
specific 
the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  clearly  shows  the  relevance  of 
the  Council’s  approach  to  women  and  peace  and 
security  in  the  fight  against  sexual  violence  against 
women  in  armed  conflict.  The  annual  report  should 
take account of that. 

Finally, we welcome in particular the inclusion of 
a  chapter  on  working  methods.  In  future,  we  would 
suggest  expanding  on  that  chapter  by  adding  the 
Council’s  assessment  of 
its  consideration  of  and 
progress  on  that  matter,  and  informing  the  wider 
membership  on  the  implementation  of  the  note  by  the 
Council President in document S/2010/507. 
into 
the  discussions 

In  concluding  our  remarks  on  item  29,  the  Five 
would like to congratulate the current presidency of the 
Security  Council  for  having  breathed  an  innovative 
spirit 
favouring 
interactiveness. We would also like to highlight that the 
increase in the number of open debates organized each 
month by the Council President — while one marker of 
openness and inclusion — in itself cannot translate into 
meaningful discussions. 
and 
for 
10 

10-63228 


they  will  make  debates 

In  that  context,  the  procedural  changes  presented 
by  the  United  Kingdom  during  its  informal  briefing 
last  week  for  members  of  the  General  Assembly 
deserve  support,  as 
less 
formulaic  and  more  conducive  to  discussions.  We 
particularly  welcome 
idea  of  organizing  an 
exchange  of  views  with  the  Department  of  Political 
Affairs. We are also open to suggestions for making the 
consultations  within  the  Council  more  spontaneous, 
lively  and  productive.  We  encourage  future  Council 
presidencies  to  follow  that  positive  example  and  to 
continue such efforts. 
the 

The issue of working methods leads me to agenda 
item  119,  on  the  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  The 
S-5 thank the Council for holding an open debate on its 
working  methods  in  April  this  year  (see  S/PV.6300), 
which  was followed by the updating of the note by the 
President  of  the  Council  (S/2010/507).  We  commend 
the  Informal  Working  Group  on  Documentation,  and 
Japan  as  its  Chair,  for  their  work,  and  welcome  the 
updated  version  of 
the  presidential  note.  That 
document  constitutes  a  good  compilation  of  existing 
practices and of developments since the adoption of the 
first  such  presidential  note  (S/2006/507).  At  the  same 
time, we believe that the note does not fully address all 
the  important  areas  of  work  with  regard  to  working 
methods.  In  particular,  we  regret  the  absence  of 
implementation mechanisms. 

The  S-5  will  continue  to  focus  on  the  issue  of 
reforming the working methods of the Security Council 
as  a  matter  of  priority.  Progress  in  that  area  has  to 
happen whether or not we can agree on an expansion of 
the Council. 

With  regard  to  the  enlargement  of  the  Security 
Council, the S-5 hope that the sixty-fifth session of the 
General Assembly will pave the way for initiating real, 
substantive  and  interactive  negotiations.  If  we  are  not 
able  to  take  that  process  to  the  next  level,  the  United 
Nations  will  be  perceived  as an organization incapable 
of  reforming  itself.  That  would  be  very  detrimental  to 
the image and the credibility of the United Nations and 
would reflect badly on us as Member States. Therefore, 
the 
we  welcome 
intergovernmental  negotiations, 
the 
reappointment  of  Ambassador  Tanin  as  its  facilitator. 
We  wish  to  assure  Ambassador  Tanin  of  our  full 
support for the upcoming process. 
of 
as  well  as 
resumption 
early 
the 
A/65/PV.48
Mr.  Touray  (Sierra  Leone):  Permit  me  to  thank 

you, Mr. President, on behalf of the African Group, for 
your opening remarks this morning, and for convening 
this joint debate on agenda item 29, on the report of the 
Security Council to the General Assembly on the  work 
of the Council for the period August 2009 through July 
2010,  and  on  agenda  item  119,  dealing  with  the 
question of equitable representation on and  increase in 
the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters. 

I  should  also  like  to  thank  both  the  Security 
Council  and  the  Secretariat  for  the  report  contained  in 
document  A/65/2.  We  thank  the  Council’s  President, 
Sir  Mark  Lyall  Grant,  for  introducing  the  report. 
However, 
in  our  representative  capacity  we  will 
confine  our  intervention  to  matters  relating  to  the 
working  methods  of  the  Council  and  its  relationship 
with  the  General  Assembly  and  to  the  question  of 
equitable representation on and increase in membership 
of  the  Security  Council  and  related  matters.  We  will 
speak  on  other  matters  in  the  report  in  our  national 
capacity. 
role  of 
the  United  Nations 

Mr.  President,  your  choice  of  “Reaffirming  the 
central 
in  global 
governance”  as  the  central  theme  of  the  Assembly’s 
sixty-fifth session could not have been made at a better 
the  daunting 
time.  The  United  Nations,  despite 
challenges 
immediate 
aftermath  of  the  Cold War,  has  evolved  to  be  the  most 
legitimate  forum  where  all  nations  could  meet  to  find 
solutions  to  the  myriad  of  problems  confronting  our 
world. 
that  confronted 
the 
in 
it 
In  an 
increasingly 

interdependent,  globalized 
world,  the  United  Nations  has  gained  recognition  as  a 
norm-setting institution in governing relations between 
and  among  nations  —  hence  the  need  to  reaffirm  its 
centrality  in  global  governance.  But  in  doing  so,  it 
becomes  imperative  that  we  all  recommit  ourselves  to 
the  reform  process  now  ongoing.  For  the  legitimacy 
and  central  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  global 
governance  to  be  fully  achievable,  there  is  a  need  to 
the 
address 
regional 
Security  Council 
representation 
current 
geopolitical  realities,  and  of  making  the  Council  more 
representative, 
the 
wider  membership  in  order  to  give  effect  to  the 
legitimacy of its decisions and make it more effective. 
issues  of  democratizing 
through 
to 
transparent  and  accountable 
equitable 
reflect 
the  burning 
in  order 
the 
to 
10-63228 

11 
A/65/PV.48 



Less  than  a  month  ago,  convinced  of  the  urgent 
need to reaffirm the centrality of the United Nations in 
global  governance  as  we  entered  into  the  Assembly’s 
sixty-fifth  session,  the  President  convened  a  closed 
informal plenary on the intergovernmental negotiations 
in  order  to  sound  the  views  of  the  membership  on 
where the reform process is, where it is leading us and 
how we can move the process forward. 
and 
and 
inclusive 
comprehensive 
through  open, 

The  President  concluded  that,  first,  the  second 
revision of the single negotiation text composed by the 
facilitator could serve as a vehicle to move the process 
forward.  Secondly,  the  facilitator  should  continue  to 
work 
transparent 
consultations  that  would  allow  the  text  to  evolve  in  a 
balanced 
Thirdly, 
11 November  —  that  is,  today’s  joint  debate  —  would 
offer  the  opportunity  to  move  the  process  forward. 
Fourthly,  the  responsibility  to  do  that  rests  with 
Member  States.  Finally,  he  urged  Member  States  to 
reflect on their positions and interact to find a way out. 
We  unreservedly  support  his  remarks  and  very  much 
hope that this joint debate today will open a window of 
opportunity for finding solutions to what at this stage is 
a seemingly intractable subject. 
way. 
the 
the 
the 
enhance 
efficiency 
that  will 
to  reiterate 
We  continue 
therefore  be  given 
relationship  between 

imperative  of 
reforming  the  Security  Council  in  a  comprehensive 
manner 
and 
effectiveness  of  the  United  Nations  in  its  primary 
responsibility  of  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security.  Attention  should 
to 
improving 
the  Security 
Council  and  the  General  Assembly,  enhancing  the 
efficiency and transparency of the Council’s  work, and 
interaction  and  dialogue  with 
promoting  more 
non-Council  members  on 
the  Council’s  working 
methods, in addition to the most important issue of the 
expansion  of  the  Council  in  both  the  permanent  and 
non-permanent  categories.  Bringing  the  two  agenda 
items  29  and  119  together  in  this  debate  is  a  clear 
indication that the two are interlinked. 
On 
towards 
in 
that  note,  we  acknowledge 

the  Security 
Council’s  presidential  note  contained  in  document 
S/2010/507,  issued  on  26  July  2010,  and  the  progress 
made 
and 
attaining  greater 
transparency 
the  Council’s  working  methods, 
particularly  in  the  holding  of  more  meetings  and 
consultations  with  other  stakeholders  such  as  Member 
States, 
and 
non-governmental organizations. 
troop-contributing 
efficiency 
countries 

We  also  welcome  the  Security  Council’s  visit  to 
specific missions engaged in areas in the continent that 
are on its agenda to garner accurate information on the 
ground  and  to  increase  the  effectiveness  of  its  work 
and  decisions.  We  encourage  the  Council  to  continue 
with  such  measures  aimed  at improving,  nurturing  and 
enhancing its relations with relevant stakeholders. 
like 

In  particular,  we  continue  to  stress  the  need  for 
more inclusiveness, transparency and legitimacy in the 
Council’s  proceedings.  Here,  we  would 
to 
emphasize that the rules of procedure — which remain 
provisional after 60 years of the Council’s existence — 
are  a  cause  for  concern.  Additionally,  we  urge  its  full 
compliance  with 
the  provisions  of  Article  15, 
paragraph 1, and Article 24, paragraph 3, of the United 
Nations  Charter  by  submitting  special  reports  to  the 
General  Assembly  for  its  consideration,  and  urge  that 
the Council’s annual reports be analytical enough to be 
of added value and significance. 

Furthermore,  it  is  important  for  the  Security 
Council to concentrate on the mandate and competence 
accorded to it by the United Nations Charter and resist 
resort  to  Chapter  VII  provisions  of  the  Charter  as  an 
excuse  to  address  issues  that  do  not  really  fall  within 
the  ambit  of  the  provisions.  We  urge  the  Council  to 
continue  to  work  more  cooperatively  with  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  by 
holding more intense and regular consultations with the 
Presidents  of  both  organs,  which  would 
foster 
harmonious  interaction  and  avoid  encroaching  on  the 
mandates of the other two organs. 
We 
therefore 

full 
implementation of the relevant provisions of Assembly 
resolutions 51/193, 58/126 and 59/313. 
the  need 
reaffirm 
for 
We  acknowledge  progress  made  during 
the 

intergovernmental negotiations in the previous session, 
culminating  in  the  single  negotiating  document  as  a 
significant step in the right direction. We would like to 
thank  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ali  Abdussalam  Treki, 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fourth 
session,  and  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  the  facilitator, 
for their tireless efforts in promoting and advancing the 
reform  process.  It  now  behoves  us  all  to  build  on  that 
progress  by  continuing  the  negotiations  within  the 
framework of decisions 62/557, 63/565 and 64/568 in a 
way  that  will  allow  the  text  to  evolve  in  an  open  and 
transparent manner. 
12 

10-63228 



In that vein, there is need to identify and agree on 
the  structure  and  approach  by  which  to  continue  the 
negotiations.  Consequently,  it  is  our  view  that  we 
should  now  aim  at  meaningful  consultations  and  an 
the  process 
interactive  approach 
towards 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations 
continuation  of 
along  with 
the 
reach  an 
agreement on  the principles and  criteria  relating  to the 
five  key 
in 
paragraph (e) (ii) of decision 62/557. 
the 
facilitator,  seeking 
issues,  or  negotiables,  as  stipulated 
consensus-building.  We 
that  will  move 
support 
to 
Our  call  for  Africa’s  representation  in  both  the 

the 
permanent  and  non-permanent  categories  of 
Security  Council,  as  contained 
the  Ezulwini 
Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration,  is  to  address  the 
injustice  that  a  continent  of  53  States,  accounting  for 
about  70  per  cent  of  the  Council’s  work,  has  had  to 
contend with, and continues to contend with, as against 
the geopolitical realities of today’s world. 
in 
in  both 
expansion 
Africa 
an 
therefore  demands  and  continues 
to 

demand 
categories  of 
membership,  permanent  and  non-permanent,  with  no 
less  than  two  permanent  seats  together  with  all  the 
prerogatives  and  privileges,  including  the  veto  as  long 
as  it  continues  to  exist,  and  a  total  of  five  non-
permanent  seats,  with  the African  Union  being  trusted 
with the responsibility of selecting Africa’s candidates. 
Any  continued  delay  in  the  process  will  not  only 
succeed  in  prolonging  that  historical  injustice  but  will 
also  question  the  legitimacy  of  the  decisions  of  the 
Council and the integrity of its proceedings. 

In  conclusion,  Africa  reiterates  its  call  for  a 
Council  that  is  more  inclusive,  effective,  transparent, 
efficient  and  accountable.  Africa  urges  all  Member 
States  to  continue  to  negotiate  in  good  faith  and  with 
mutual  trust  and  to  endeavour  to  make  concerted 
efforts to achieve progress in the negotiation and move 
the process forward. It is therefore incumbent on us all 
to  continue  the  process  in  an  atmosphere  of  flexibility 
and  compromise  so  that  a  reform  that  satisfies  the 
broad consensus of membership can be achieved. 

We  in  Africa  are  committed  to  working  with  all 
interested  groups  and  the  general  membership  in  this 
session to make Security Council reform a reality. 
national 
In  our 

delegation 
acknowledges  with  appreciation  the  report  on  Sierra 
Leone  in  the  Council’s  report  for  the  period  August 
2009 to July 2010 (A/65/2). We would like to take this 
capacity,  my 
A/65/PV.48
as  another  opportunity  to  thank  the  Council  and  the 
international  community  for  the  continued  support  in 
our  post-conflict  peacebuilding  effort.  Sierra  Leone  is 
deeply  committed  to  building  on  the  gains  since  the 
end  of  hostilities  and  will  continue  to  endeavour  to 
work with all stakeholders to ensure sustainable peace, 
stability, growth and development. 
in 
the 
is 
Mr.  Lambert  (Belgium)  (spoke  in  French):  Our 

an 
accelerated 
world 
transformation.  We  all  know 
the  economic, 
political,  institutional  and  development  positions  of 
many countries are in a full process of change. 
process  of 
that 
Within 

the  United  Nations,  we  all  promote 
effective  multilateralism.  We  must  therefore  take  into 
account  the  reality  of  certain  changes.  The  United 
Nations  institutions,  including  the  Security  Council, 
should  better  reflect  that  new  reality  in  an  equitable 
manner. Indeed, recently  we have been able to see that 
the  attention  to  the  issue  of  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council  is  and  continues  to  be  very  current  in  the 
international  sphere,  at  the  highest  levels.  The  outside 
world has expectations when it comes to this issue, and 
consequently has expectations of us. 

It  is  in  this  context  that  I  welcome  the  laudable 
work  of  Ambassador  Tanin,  who  has  been  able  to 
achieve  remarkable  progress  by  initiating  an  exercise 
intended  to  make  the  current  negotiating  text  more 
operational.  Many  delegations,  including  those  of  the 
Benelux countries, have contributed to this exercise by 
introducing  proposals  for  improving  the  text  on  the 
five  major  topics  before  us. We  remain  prepared  to  do 
even  more  during  the  current  session  of  the  General 
Assembly.  I  also  welcome  the  specific  attention  that 
you,  Mr.  President,  are  devoting  to  this  effort.  For  us, 
that is a positive sign that should inspire us to continue 
with  the  momentum  initiated  at  the  beginning  of  this 
session. 

Here and now, I wish to appeal to all members of 
the  Assembly  to  contribute  concretely  and  technically 
to  producing  a  real  negotiating  text  through  specific 
proposals to improve the current one, which will be the 
principal  task  of  this  round  of  negotiations.  The  mere 
repetition  of  traditionally  held  —  and  therefore  well-
known  —  points  of  view  is  no  longer  an  option.  From 
now on, we must produce results. The outside world is 
watching,  expects  much  from  us  and,  indeed,  expects 
us to do better. Ideally, we should be prepared to target 
elements  that  essentially  constitute  the  real  political 
10-63228 

13 
A/65/PV.48 


Gordian  knot,  such  as  enlarging  the  Council  in  its  two 
categories. 
to  be  reached 
The  objectives 

this  year  are 
therefore  clear  in  our  minds.  My  delegation  remains 
prepared  to  rise  to  the  challenge  and  to  assume  our 
responsibility in an interactive fashion. 
Mr.  Wittig  (Germany):  Please  allow  me  to  first 

thank you, Mr. President, for the personal attention that 
you  have  been  giving  to  the  topic  of  Security  Council 
reform.  We  are  very  grateful  both  to  you  and  to  the 
Chair,  Ambassador  Tanin,  for  the  fact  that  we  have 
already been able to hold one informal plenary meeting 
on  the  issue  under  your  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly. 
The importance of United Nations reform, and in 

particular  that  of  the  Security  Council,  cannot  be 
overstated. There are concerns about global governance 
being  restructured  and  about  the  creation  of  new 
international  formats,  such  as  the  Group  of  20.  In 
recent  days,  we  have  been  witnessing  an  important 
reform  of 
the  International  Monetary  Fund.  The 
concern is that the United Nations might be left behind 
in  this  process,  as  its  basic  structure  has  remained 
essentially 
the 
Organization’s  membership  has  grown  from  51  at  the 
time to 192 Member States today. 
1945,  while 
unchanged 
since 
It  is  our  responsibility  as  Member  States  of  the 

United  Nations  to  ensure  that  these  concerns  do  not 
become  a  reality.  Time  will  not  play  in  the  favour  of 
the United Nations, if an adaptation of its structures to 
the  realities  of  our  times  cannot  soon  be  achieved. We 
must  reach  a  reform  compromise,  if  the  Security 
Council  is  to  preserve  its  place  at  the  heart  of  the 
multilateral 
its  unique  claim  on 
legitimacy  and  its  indispensable  functions  as  outlined 
in the Charter of the United Nations, it must remain, in 
our view, the body that deals  with threats to peace and 
security in the world. 
system.  With 
We should therefore not lose any more time in the 

reform process. We welcome the fact that it is now ever 
more  widely  recognized  that  the  Council’s  future 
composition  will  reflect  current  geopolitical  realities. 
President Obama delivered an important speech in New 
Delhi  at  the  beginning  of  this  week  highlighting  this 
particular  fact.  We  have  to  ensure  that  the  Security 
Council can play its role in the twenty-first century. 
14 


The  overwhelming  majority  of  Member  States 
considers this aim to be best served by an expansion of 
the Council in both of its  membership categories. Like 
our African partners and many others, Germany and its 
partners in the Group of Four firmly support this model 
of expansion. That was a clear result of the sixty-fourth 
session, and it is reflected in  the  second  version of  the 
negotiating  text  that  was  put  forward  by  the  Chair  of 
the intergovernmental negotiations, Ambassador Tanin. 
We  now  need  to  build  upon  this  result.  All  of  us  will 
have 
the 
the  broadest  possible 
compromise  solution  with 
support. 
the  endeavour 
to  engage 
find 
in 
to 

I  appeal  to  all  members  to  now  swiftly  take  the 
negotiating  process  in  the  informal  plenary  meeting 
one  step  further  to  arrive  at  a  third  version  of  the 
negotiating  text  by  the  end  of  the  year.  That  version 
should  eliminate  overlaps  and  merge 
identical 
positions,  and  thus  be  significantly  shorter  than  the 
second version. 

We  call  on  you,  Mr.  President,  and  on  the 
Chairman  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations,  to 
work with Member States — possibly also in groups — 
and aim for a shortened version by the end of the year. 
This  process  should  eventually  be  used  as  an 
opportunity  to  narrow  down  the  options  and  should  be 
the  basis  of  any  stocktaking.  The  membership  could 
then  start  with  actual  negotiations  about  the  reform  by 
the  beginning  of  next  year. We  should  firmly  envisage 
a  concrete  outcome  by  the  end  of  the  sixty-fifth 
session. 

Let  me  stress  that  we  should  arrive  at  a  reform 
that  changes  the  Council  for  the  better.  In  doing  so,  a 
permanent African  presence on  the  Council,  as  well as 
the  permanent  presence  of  other  countries  from  the 
South  —  from  Latin  America  and  from  Asia  —  is 
essential.  But  those  who  are  the  largest  contributors  to 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security 
will of course also have to assume their rightful place. 
least, 
Last  but  not 

the  working 
methods  of  the  Security  Council  is  another  essential 
element  of the reform. A  Council  thus reformed  would 
better serve the interests of all Member States. 
improving 
Mr. Kleib (Indonesia): Let me begin by thanking 

you, Mr. President, for convening this important debate 
on  two  interconnected  agenda  items.  We  also  wish  to 
thank  the  delegation  of  the  United  Kingdom,  as  the 
current  President  of  the  Security  Council,  along  with 
10-63228 


other  Council  members,  for  presenting  the  Council’s 
annual  report  for  the  period  1 August  2009  to  31  July 
2010  (A/65/2).  We  also  take  this  opportunity  to  thank 
the  delegation  of  Nigeria,  which  held  the  Council’s 
presidency 
the 
in  July,  for 
introduction of the report. 
in  drafting 
its  work 

Indonesia  associates  itself  with  the  statement  on 
the  position  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  delivered 
earlier by the representative of Egypt. 
The  vast  number  of  Council 

resolutions, 
presidential  statements  and  field  visits  during  the 
period  covered  by  the  report  shows  the  seriousness  of 
global  peace  and  security  challenges. The  Council  and 
the agencies of the United Nations system have indeed 
played  a  very  important  role  in  helping  to  mitigate 
conflict  and  foster  peace.  Indonesia  commends  the 
Council for its actions in  many of the cases  mentioned 
in the report. We applaud it for its many open briefings, 
as  well  as  its  consultations  with  troop-  and  police-
contributing  countries, as part of the  effort  to plan  and 
execute  peacekeeping  operations  more  effectively  and 
with clear and up-to-date mandates. 
the  report  of 
the  Council  could 
At  the  same  time,  as  some  have  pointed  out,  we 

too  would  have  preferred  greater  analysis  and 
elaboration  of  the  Council’s  approaches  in  the  report. 
Indeed,  there  is  always  room  for  improvement.  In  that 
regard, it would be helpful to United Nations Members 
if 
the 
implementation  status  of  the  Council’s  own  decisions. 
It  is  important  that  the  General  Assembly,  whose 
members  entrust  the  Council  with  the  maintenance  of 
world  peace  and  security,  should  have  a  better 
understanding of the complete picture. Also, the report 
should  be  not  just  about  the  Council’s  successful 
deliberations,  but  also  about  its  failure  to  act  on 
particular  issues.  It  is  not  an  institution  incapable  of 
failure. 
include 

On  United  Nations  peacekeeping  and  many  other 
matters concerning international peace and security, the 
Council  should  conduct  a  more  meaningful  exchange 
of  views  with  Member  States  in  general,  especially 
those  whose  interests  may  be  directly  affected  by 
possible  decisions  of 
from 
enhancing  the  quality  of  the  Council’s  decisions,  that 
will  create  greater  ownership  over 
the  Council’s 
decisions  among  the  relevant  stakeholders,  making  it 
more effective. 
the  Council.  Apart 
A/65/PV.48

On  the  subject  of  Security  Council  reform,  my 
delegation  would  first  like  to  commend  Ambassador 
Zahir  Tanin  of  Afghanistan  for  his  hard  work  at  the 
informal  intergovernmental  plenary  meetings  of  the 
General Assembly to steer what is certainly not an easy 
process.  A  reformed  Security  Council  that,  inter  alia, 
addresses  the  imbalance  in  the  Council’s  composition 
in  relation  to  the  vast  number  of  developing  countries 
from  various  regions,  as  well  as  making  the  Council 
more representative, accountable and effective are both 
essential. The future composition of the Council should 
naturally include the newly emerging Powers. 

We  support  the  efforts  to  draw  up  a  negotiating 
text,  which  is  definitely  a  good  basis  for  further 
negotiations.  However,  in  our  view,  no  matter  how 
hard  we  try  to  fine-tune  the  text  during  this  session,  a 
breakthrough in finding solutions to differences will be 
beyond  any  text.  There  needs  to  be  greater  political 
flexibility  in  agreeing  on  generally  acceptable  points. 
Progress  will  be  made  when  the  formula  for  Council 
reform is such that it is acceptable to the wide majority 
of  countries,  including  those  that  have  a  particular 
interest  in  reform.  We  need  to  move  forward  to  work 
on  the  points  of  convergence  that  can  unite  the  largest 
possible number of countries. 
the  Council  as 

Indonesia  is  among  those  countries  that  believe 
that  expanding  both  categories  of  membership  offers 
the  greatest  potential  for  addressing  the  fundamental 
shortcoming  of 
is  presently 
constituted,  namely,  its  lack  of  representation.  That 
defect is widely recognized and hardly needs repeating. 
Expanding both categories of membership offers a rare 
opportunity to achieve a Council that better reflects the 
contemporary  world  and, 
indeed,  can  anticipate 
projected trends for the future. 
it 
to 
ensure 
categories 
However,  notwithstanding  the  obvious  appeal  of 

expanding  both 
a  more 
representative Council, it is our considered view that at 
the  present  time  we  can  realistically  say  that  it  is  the 
middle  ground  that  may  garner  the  widest  possible 
political  acceptance,  and  that  it  is  the  intermediate 
approach on the key issue of categories of membership 
that deserves further consideration in order to move the 
process  forward.  In  saying  this,  we  are  not  jettisoning 
the  possibility  of  future  reform  involving  expanding 
the  permanent  membership.  This  is  one  issue  that  can 
be  addressed 
the 
intermediate  approach,  which  we  will  all  delve  into  in 
the future. 
the  review  concept  within 
in 
10-63228 

15 
A/65/PV.48 



There  are  many  variants  of  the  intermediate 
approach.  We  should  therefore  encourage  ourselves  to 
explore  it  further.  Our  suggestion  is  that  this  year’s 
session  can  add  substantive  value  to  advancing  the 
process  of  Council  reform  by  further  exploring  the 
kind  of  intermediate  approach  we  can  agree  on. 
Regarding  the  issue  of  the  size  of  a  reformed  Council, 
we  should  also  take  a  middle-ground  approach.  A 
suggestion at this stage is to expand the membership to 
between the mid-20s and 31. We need to work to arrive 
at  an  agreed-on  number  that  reflects  the  world’s 
plurality,  with  its  vast  number  of  developing  countries 
and regions, in a more balanced manner. 

While  opinion  also  varies  on  the  remaining  three 
key  Council  reform  issues,  Indonesia  is  certain  that, 
through 
increased  cooperation,  collaboration  and 
dialogue,  differences  can  be  narrowed  and  agreements 
reached  on advancing  the reform  process  we are  all  so 
painstakingly invested in. 

Finally, my delegation would like to reiterate that 
all  five  key  issues  of  Security  Council  reform  should 
be  negotiated  as  an  integral  part  of  a  comprehensive 
package. Indonesia, for its part, stands ready to engage 
with  all  countries  to  advance  Council  reform  on  a 
viable path. 
Mr.  Ragaglini  (Italy):  Thank  you  for  convening 

this debate, Mr. President. It helps us to focus in a very 
concrete  way  on  two  issues  related  to  the  Security 
Council,  namely,  its  annual  report  and  the  reform 
process. 
The  Security  Council  was  involved  in  intensive 

activity  during  the  period  considered  by  the  report 
(A/65/2).  It  dealt  with  geographic  crises  in Africa,  the 
Middle  East,  Asia,  the  Balkans  and  Haiti.  It  also 
devoted  considerable  time  to  thematic  and  general 
issues,  including  terrorism,  the  protection  of  civilians, 
women 
security,  peacekeeping 
operations, peacebuilding and non-proliferation. 
and  peace 
and 
to 
the 
improve 
its  effectiveness, 
leadership  of 
To  respond  to  the  growing  demand  of  Member 

the  Security 
States 
the  Turkish 
Council,  under 
presidency,  also  held  an 
last 
September focused on ensuring an effective role for the 
Council  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security. On that occasion, the representative of one of 
the Council’s members made the following statement: 
important  summit 

on 
the 
role 
also 
depends 
“Improving the effectiveness of the Security 

of 
Council 
non-permanent  members.  They  must 
fully 
participate  in  the  decision-making  process.  Non-
permanent  members  can  bring  a  diversity  of 
views  and regional experiences  to the  Council. It 
is not appropriate to call upon them only to ratify 
decisions  already 
the  permanent 
members.” (S/PV.6389, p. 16) 
taken  by 

That  member  was  Brazil,  and  the  representative 
who  made  the  statement  was  its  Foreign  Minister.  We 
fully  share  the  letter  and  spirit  of  the  approach  of  our 
Brazilian friends. I shall now shift focus to the Security 
Council reform process. 

We  are  not  deaf  and  we  are  not  blind.  We  are 
closely  watching  the  reshaping  of  the  international 
community.  We  understand  and  welcome  the  will  and 
capacity  of  Member  States  to  contribute  more  and  to 
take  on  more  responsibilities.  Over  the  past  15  years, 
the  world  has  changed  dramatically;  it  will  change 
even  faster  in  the  next  decade.  In  reforming  the 
Security  Council,  we  all  have  the  responsibility  to 
consider  the  changes  that  the  past  and  present  have 
brought, but especially those that the future  will bring. 
We  need  to  make  the  Council  more  legitimate,  more 
representative and more effective. 

A reformed Council must give a chance to the 70 
Member  States  that  have  never  served  on  it.  We  must 
make  it  accountable  to  the  General  Assembly  through 
the noblest of democratic principles, that is, the right to 
vote and to elect representatives. These are the reasons 
that  we  strongly  believe  that  the  Security  Council 
needs  to  be  reformed.  That  is  why  we  do  not  believe 
that a democratic, representative and legitimate reform 
can  be  achieved  by  enlarging 
the  Council  and 
extending  outdated  and  ineffective  privileges,  such  as 
permanent  membership,  to  a  few,  while  neglecting  the 
rights of many. 
Security  Council  must 
Italy,  its  Uniting  for  Consensus  allies  and  many 

that  a 
like-minded  Member  States  are  convinced 
reformed 
be  more 
representative,  more  accountable  and  more  flexible. 
Under  our  proposal,  it  would  be  more  representative 
because,  by  including  longer-term  seats  and  new  non-
permanent  members,  more  Member  States  would  have 
a chance to serve. It would also be more representative 
regional 
owing 
representation,  which 
significant 
innovative  approach 
is  particularly 
to  an 
to 
16 

10-63228 


following the entry into force of the Lisbon Treaty and 
the  progress  achieved  by  the  African  Union.  It  would 
be  more  accountable  because  even  longer-term  seats 
would  be  subject  to  elections  and  scrutiny  by  the 
General  Assembly.  And  it  would  be  more  flexible 
because  our  proposal  has  the  merit  of  making  the 
Council  adaptable  without  the  need  to  spend  another 
17 years  looking  for  a  reform  to  adapt  it  to  new 
realities. 

The  latter  is  a  crucial  point.  If  we  add  new 
permanent  members  now  —  say  four  or  five  —  in 
addition to further non-permanent members, what shall 
we do in 10, 15 or 20 years’ time when other countries 
will  be  ready  to  assume  greater  responsibilities?  Shall 
we  add  other  permanent  members  while  applying  the 
same logic? Will we end up with a Council of 30 to 35 
members?  Will  it  work  better  or  worse?  Will  not 
Brazil’s  concerns  on 
the  attitude  of  permanent 
members — which we share — be heightened? 

Of  course,  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  proposal  is 
not a take-it-or-leave-it proposition. It is a genuine and 
doable proposal — the newest in the past five years — 
which takes into account the link of all five key issues, 
reflects  a  fresh  and  compromise-based  approach  and 
shows  flexibility,  creativity  and  good  faith.  It  is 
therefore  imperative  that,  during  the  current  session, 
the  members  of 
the  same 
flexibility,  readiness  to  negotiate  and  willingness  to 
compromise  in  order  to  work  on  the  text  prepared  by 
the facilitator, Ambassador Tanin. Italy and its partners 
are ready to do so. 
the  Assembly  show 
to  congratulate 
Mr. Alotaibi  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 

outset,  I  would  like  to  express  my  appreciation  to  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  the  United  Kingdom,  the 
President  of  the  Security  Council  for  this  month,  for 
his introduction of the Council’s report (A/65/2) to the 
General  Assembly,  and  for  his  important  briefing  on 
the  Council’s  activities  over  the  past  year.  I  am  also 
pleased 
the  new  non-permanent 
members  of  the  Security  Council  for  the  period  2011-
2012, namely, Colombia, Germany, India, Portugal and 
South  Africa.  I  also  wish  to  reaffirm  my  delegation’s 
support  for  the  statement  delivered  earlier  by  the 
representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement.  We  also  welcome  a  new  decision  to  once 
again place trust in Ambassador Zahir Tanin to lead the 
work  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  aimed  at 
reaching a historic agreement that would strengthen the 
role of the Security Council. 
A/65/PV.48

The  two  topics  under  consideration  today  are 
among  the  most  important  items  on  the  agenda  of  the 
General  Assembly,  namely,  the  report  of  the  Security 
Council and the question of equitable representation on 
and  increase  in  the  membership  of  the  Council.  The 
issue of reform continues to be stalled after 18 years of 
discussions. We have not yet reached any agreement on 
either  the  changes  to  be  made  or  the  form  that  the 
Council  should  have,  although  there  is  international 
consensus that the Council must be reformed. 

However, we cannot ignore the fact that there has 
been  progress  in  the  negotiations,  especially  on  the 
working  methods  of  the  Council.  There  is  almost 
generalized  agreement  on  many  of  the  procedures  and 
proposals to be introduced. There is no doubt that there 
must  be  general  agreement  when  it  comes  to  any  issue 
pertaining  to  expanding  and  reforming  the  Security 
Council,  so  as to  ensure that  the reform  is real, enjoys 
wide  acceptance  and  is  easy  to  implement.  There  is 
also  a  need  for  transparency,  good  faith  and  avoiding 
any  unilateral  actions  aimed  at  achieving  national 
interests.  The  purpose  of  serving  as  a  member  of  the 
Council 
the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.  That  entails  a 
responsibility  to  maintain  objectivity  and  not  seek 
political gains for any State or regional group. 
to  contribute 
to 
is 
the 
Kuwait’s  position  on 

issue  of  Security 
Council  reform,  which  has  been  clearly  set  out  on 
many previous occasions, is grounded on the following 
established  principles.  The  reform  of  the  Council 
should  be  an  integral  part  of  a  comprehensive  reform 
of  all  the  organs  of  the  United  Nations.  The  reform 
process  should  aim  at 
improving  efficiency  and 
ensuring  effectiveness  and  legitimacy.  It  should  be 
comprehensive  and  ongoing  in  order  to  meet  its 
responsibilities,  keep  pace  with  changes  and  address 
the 
the 
international 
the 
membership  of  the  Security  Council  should  serve  to 
bolster  its  role  in  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security  and  increase  the  legitimacy  and  credibility  to 
its resolutions. 
community.  Any 
facing 
in 
developments 
increase 
challenges 
and 

We attach great importance to improving both the 
working  methods  of  the  Council  and  its  relations  with 
the  other  principal  organs  of  the  United  Nations, 
namely,  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council.  Kuwait 
the 
proposals  made  by  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  aimed 
at  increasing  transparency  in  the  work  of  the  Council 
therefore 
supports 
10-63228 

17 
A/65/PV.48 


and  facilitating  the  flow  of  information  to  and  from 
Member  States.  We  also  recognize  the  need  for  full 
respect  for  the  respective  mandates  and  competencies 
of  each  organ,  especially 
the  General 
Assembly,  as  well  as  the  need  to  limit  the  role  of  the 
Security Council to discussing issues that pose a threat 
to international peace and security. 
those  of 

In  that  regard,  we  reiterate  the  importance  of 
codifying  the  procedures  adopted  by  the  Security 
Council  to  improve  its  working  methods,  without 
waiting  for  an  agreement  on  other  issues  —  such  as 
those  relating  to  the  size  and  composition  of  the 
Council  and  its  decision-making  process  —  especially 
since codifying those procedures would not necessarily 
entail  amending  the  Charter.  We  also  believe  that  the 
Security  Council  should  adopt  permanent  rules  of 
procedure, instead of the provisional ones under which 
it has been operating for more than 60 years. 
in  place 
Kuwait  also  supports  keeping 

the 
mechanism for the election of non-permanent members 
of  the  Council  established  under Article  23,  paragraph 
2,  of  the  Charter,  as  it  provides  a  greater  opportunity 
for  small  Member  States  to  serve  on  the  Council  and 
contribute  to  its  work.  That  is  especially  important 
given  that,  after  six  and  a  half  decades,  more  than  a 
quarter of Member States have yet to serve as members 
of the Security Council. 

With regard  to the  veto,  we consider  it important 
to  place  limits  and  controls  on  its  use,  including 
limiting it to issues under Chapter VII of the Charter. 
Should  there  be  an  agreement  on  increasing  the 

number  of  non-permanent  seats,  distributing  those 
seats  to  regional  groups  should  take  into  account  the 
great  increase  in  the  number  of  Members  from  among 
Asian States. 
We  should  also  not  ignore  the  right  of  Arab  and 
in 
to 

Muslim  countries 
accordance  with 
defending the purposes and principles of the Charter. 
to  appropriate  representation 
their  size  and  contributions 

In  conclusion,  we  reaffirm  our  support  for  all 
efforts  to  strengthen  the  role  and  performance  of  the 
Security  Council. We  must  reach  a  consensus  that  will 
ensure that the Security Council is able to carry out its 
work under the Charter without any obstacles. 
Mr.  Oyarzun  (Spain)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 

delegation appreciates the opportunity to hold this joint 
18 

debate  on  the  Security  Council  report  to  the  General 
Assembly (A/65/2) and Security Council reform. 

With  regard  to  the  Security  Council  report  to  the 
General  Assembly,  I  am  grateful  for  the  statement 
made  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  the  United 
Kingdom,  as  President  of  the  Council.  The  report 
submitted at this session is more analytical than that of 
the  previous  year,  but  even  more  progress  could  be 
made  through  the  inclusion  of  additional,  qualitative 
information. 
importance 
Spain  attaches  great 
to  positive 

interaction  between  the  Security  Council  and  the 
General  Assembly.  The  interaction  and  cooperation 
between  these  two  main  organs  of  the  United  Nations 
should  be  improved  through  greater  transparency  and 
accountability,  which  would  promote  the  adoption  of 
more  useful  methods  to  prevent  and  eliminate  threats 
to international peace and security. 
The  United  Nations  Charter  provides  guidelines 

for  interaction  between  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security  Council. Articles  15  and  24.3  provide  for  the 
submission  by  the  Council  of  annual  and  special 
reports to the General Assembly. 
the 
Issues  such  as 
these  would  be  desirable, 

Among  the  matters  addressed  by  the  Security 
Council, cross-cutting issues are of special relevance to 
the  Assembly. 
fight  against 
the  disarmament  of  ex-
terrorism,  peacebuilding, 
combatants  and  the  prevention  of  conflicts  are  of 
special interest, since the Assembly has responsibilities 
for  various  aspects  of  them.  Greater  coordination  and 
interaction  between  the  Council  and  the  Assembly  in 
dealing  with 
including 
specific  information  in  order  to  make  the  work  of  the 
United  Nations  more  effective.  It  would  also  be 
desirable  to  have  greater  transparency  in  the  work  of 
the Council and greater participation of Member States 
in 
the  Council, 
especially  on  those  issues  directly  affecting  them.  It 
would  also  be  desirable  for  the  debates  of  the  Council 
to  be  more  open  to  statements  from  Member  States 
with an interest in the topics under discussion and that 
there  be  greater  interaction  with  troop-contributing 
countries  involved  in  operations  authorized  by  the 
Council. 
the  activities  and  decisions  of 

My  delegation,  in  any  case,  appreciates  the 
important  role  of  the  Council  in  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security,  and  believes  that  the 
Council  should  strengthen  its  preventive  diplomacy 
10-63228 


activities  before  international  crises  arise  and  be  more 
flexible in dealing with them once they do occur. 
I  should  now  like  to  address  the  question  of 

Security Council reform. 

We  appreciate  your  interest,  Sir,  and  that  of 
Ambassador  Tanin  —  who  is  once  again  responsible 
for  chairing  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  at  this 
session  —  in  achieving  concrete  results  during  your 
respective mandates. You can count on the full support 
of the Spanish delegation in this endeavour. 

As  I  stated  at  the  exploratory  meeting  held  on 
21 October,  my  delegation  —  along  with  others  of  the 
Uniting  for  Consensus  group  —  is  prepared  actively 
and  constructively  to  pursue  negotiations  on  the  basis 
of the revised negotiation text that was submitted to us 
by Ambassador Tanin on 27 August. 

The  word  “negotiate”  is  absolutely  key  here.  It 
means  making  concrete  proposals  that  can  generate 
consensus,  and  demonstrating  the  will  to  reach  a 
compromise  solution  acceptable  to  all.  Conversely, 
negotiating does not mean reiterating positions that are 
sufficiently  well  known  and  officially  on  record,  such 
as  ours,  which  continues  to  favour  the  enlargement  of 
the  Council  exclusively 
the  category  of  non-
permanent membership. 
in 
three  months  after 

I think we need to acknowledge that something is 
not  quite 
the 
presentation  on  26  May  of  the  first  version  of  the 
negotiating  text,  we  have  not  been  able  to  shorten  its 
length by even a single page. The first revision was 31 
pages  long,  and 
length. 
the  same 
Unfortunately,  negotiations  remain  at  an 
impasse 
similar 
that  which  existed  before  we  had  a 
negotiating text. 
the  second  is 
right  when, 
to 

Since  we  cannot  put  the  blame  on  the  Open-
ended  Working  Group  or,  I  imagine,  on  the  former 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  or  on  Ambassador 
Tanin  and  his  team,  we  are  compelled  to  acknowledge 
that the full responsibility falls entirely to us. However, 
although  responsibility  for  the  impasse  is  undoubtedly 
a  collective  one,  it  is  not  exactly  the  same  for  all.  I 
think  we  need  to  recall  that  the  Uniting  for  Consensus 
group  was 
to  submit  concrete 
amendments  to  the  first  revision,  merging  several  of 
our proposals into a single one that was included in the 
second.  We  also  remain  the  only  group  that  has 
proposed  an  alternative  model,  demonstrating  our 
the  only  group 
10-63228 

A/65/PV.48
readiness  to  explore  the  so-called  intermediate  model 
by  adopting  some  of  its  elements,  such  as  the  creation 
of  longer-term  seats  for  non-permanent  members  and 
the  inclusion  of  the  review  concept  at  the  end  of  a 
certain period of time. Neither of these  was part of the 
model we proposed in 2005. 

After five rounds of negotiations,  we believe that 
the  time  has  come  for  other  groups  to  follow  suit.  In 
any case, we have the mandate to immediately continue 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  as  set  out  in  decision 
64/568, which I recall was adopted by consensus on 13 
September.  Accordingly,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
see a road map, provided well in advance, for the sixth 
round  of  negotiations  that  would  include  the  dates  of 
and  topics  for  each  meeting.  We  would  also  like  to 
know  if  consultations  will  be  held  prior  to  the  next 
round.  If  they  are,  we  would  like  to  be  reassured  that 
the  consultations  will  not  become  negotiations  held  at 
the  margins  of  the  informal  plenary  of  the  General 
Assembly. 

Mr.  Askarov  (Uzbekistan),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair. 
Along  with 
the  road  map,  we  attach  great 

importance  to  scrupulous  adherence  to  the  rules  of  the 
game  for  the  negotiations  that  were  set  out  in  General 
Assembly  decisions  62/557,  63/565  and  64/568.  I 
would like  to refer to the  following  three  such rules in 
particular. 
First  is  the  comprehensive  nature  of  Security 

Council  reform  and 
interlinkage 
among  its  five  key  issues.  It  is  essential  for  the 
negotiations  to  continue  to  include  these  five  issues 
without excluding or marginalizing any of them. 
indissoluble 
the 

Second  is  the  open,  transparent  and  inclusive 
character  of  the  negotiations,  including,  as  the  case 
may be, possible consultations prior to the beginning of 
a  new  round.  It  is  essential  that  no  delegation  be  left 
out or any proposal excluded. I take this opportunity to 
recall  that  this  is  the  first  time  that  the  General 
Assembly  is  addressing  the  issue  of  Security  Council 
reform  in  plenary  since  the  entry  into  force  of  the 
Lisbon  Treaty.  My  delegation  will  endeavour  —  we 
hope, with others — to promote a model of reform that 
will  be  fully  consistent  with  the  legitimate  aspirations 
enshrined  in  the  Treaty,  giving  preference  to  the 
general  interest  of  all  States  members  of  the  European 
Union  over  the  particular  interests  of  any  single 
member State. 
19 
A/65/PV.48 



Third  is  the  membership-driven  aspect  of  the 
negotiations.  It  is  essential  that  all  initiatives  always 
come 
from  Member  States  or  be  unequivocally 
endorsed  by  them.  In  short,  my  delegation  cannot 
accept that the rules of the game be changed mid-game, 
even  if  it  is  argued  that  this  would  benefit  the 
negotiations. 

To  conclude,  I  reiterate  my  invitation  to  the 
President  of  the  General Assembly  to  play  a  proactive 
role  in  monitoring  the  negotiations,  complementing 
and  strengthening  the  work  of Ambassador  Tanin,  just 
as  he  did  at  the  meeting  of  21  October,  which  he 
attended from beginning to end. That would be the best 
way to help us fulfil the obligation he assigned to us to 
obtain concrete results by the conclusion of the current 
session. 
Mr.  Araud  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  I  thank 

the  Permanent  Representative  of  the  United  Kingdom, 
in his capacity as President of the Security Council, for 
presenting  the  Council’s  annual  report  to  the  General 
Assembly  (A/65/2).  The 
the 
Security  Council’s  annual  reports 
is  evidence  of 
improvements  in  its  working  methods  in  terms  of 
increased  transparency  and  improved  interaction  with 
all States Members of our Organization. 
improved  quality  of 

France is mindful of those aspects of the Security 
Council’s  necessary  evolution  and  emphasizes  the 
other  issues  that  must  be  addressed  if  the  Council  is 
finally  to  enter 
the  twenty-first  century:  regional 
representation, membership categories and size. 
the  Council 
to  strengthen 
It  is  well  known  that  France  is  committed  to 

achieving  an ambitious reform  of  the  Security  Council 
that  would  allow 
its 
effectiveness and make it more representative. Areas of 
convergence  became  apparent  in  the  work  carried  out 
under the leadership of Ambassador Tanin, the chair of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  at 
the  sixty-fourth 
session  of  the  General Assembly. An  expansion  of  the 
Security  Council  in  the  two  categories  of  membership 
is one area attracting increasing support. We must work 
on  these  areas  of  convergence  in  order  to  launch 
genuine negotiations and to avoid getting bogged down 
in successive unilateral statements. 

We must build on the progress represented by the 
document  drawn  up  at  the  sixty-fourth  session  thanks 
to  the  facilitator’s  efforts.  It  is  now  time  to  work 
towards  achieving  a  shorter  and  more  functional  text 
in  genuine 
that  will  allow  us 
to  engage 
fully 
negotiations  before  the  end  of  the  year.  We  therefore 
urge Ambassador Tanin to do his utmost to achieve this 
objective by the end of the year. 

Fundamentally,  Security  Council  reform  must 
take  into  account  the  emergence  of  new  Powers  that 
want  to  assume  the  responsibility  of  a  permanent  seat 
on  the  Security  Council  and  that  are,  in  accordance 
with  the  United  Nations  Charter,  able  to  make  a 
significant  contribution  to  the  Council’s  maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security.  With  that  in  mind, 
we support the accession of Germany, Brazil, India and 
Japan  to  permanent  membership.  We  also  support  an 
increased presence of African countries on the Security 
Council,  particularly  among  its  permanent  members. 
The  question  of  an  Arab  State  among  the  permanent 
members  of 
to  be 
addressed. 
the  Security  Council 
is  also 
is, 
if 
that 
jointly  proposed  by 
However,  if  we  do  not  achieve  real  progress  at 

the  sixty-fifth  session; 
there  are  no 
negotiations  —  and  this  is  a  juncture  we  have  not  yet 
reached  —  we  must  face  that  reality  and  consider  the 
interim  stage  of  reform 
the 
President  of  France  and  the  British  Prime  Minister. 
Some  people  have  asked  us  —  and  some  have  asked 
here today — to define the parameters of that proposal. 
My  delegation  believes  firmly  that  these  parameters 
must  emerge  from  negotiation  and  that  they  cannot  be 
prescribed but must be fully embraced by all Members. 
First, a consensus must emerge whereby this Assembly 
commits  to  the  path  of  negotiating  an  interim  reform. 
Were  that  to  happen,  I  am  convinced  that  those  States 
operating  in  good  faith  would  be  able  to  generate  the 
working documents needed for the task. 

We  know  everyone’s  positions,  having  heard 
them many times and having heard them yet again this 
morning.  Nevertheless,  we  face  a  clear  choice.  Either 
we pursue this fruitless rehashing and Security Council 
reform  will  die  a  slow  death,  to  the  satisfaction  of 
some  and  the  detriment  of  all;  or,  conversely,  we  start 
negotiations.  It  is  a  question  of  political  will.  France 
calls  on  the Assembly  today  to  make  this  decision,  as 
we  have  done  before  at  the  highest  levels  of  State, 
including the President of the Republic. 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  The  Russian  delegation  welcomes 
the 
convening of today’s meeting of the General Assembly, 
which  gives  all  Member  States  an  opportunity  to 
20 

10-63228 


discuss  the  work  of  the  Council  over  the  year  and  to 
discuss questions of its reform. 

We  thank  the  President  of  the  Security  Council, 
the  Permanent  Representative  of  the  United  Kingdom, 
Sir Mark Lyall Grant, for introducing the annual report 
of  the  Security  Council  (A/65/2).  We  also  thank  the 
delegation  of  Nigeria,  which  has  done  a  great  deal  of 
work  in  putting  together  and  preparing  the  document. 
We  believe  that  overall  it  objectively  reflects  the 
momentum of the work of the Council in the past year. 
The  fact  that  the  Council,  as  in  previous  years,  has 
been  actively  involved  in  dealing  with  important 
problems  in  the  area  of  security  shows  that  the 
international 
the 
irreplaceable  principle  of  the  unique  legitimacy  of 
Security  Council  decisions,  which  are  fundamental  to 
settling issues of international peace and security. 
community 
adhering 
is 
to 

The  purpose  of  the  Council’s  reports  is  to  give  a 
holistic  and  factually  accurate  idea  of  the  work  of  the 
Council  for  the  year.  The  current  report  fully  rises  to 
that  challenge.  In  terms  of  specific  approaches  of 
Council  members  to  different  issues  on  the  agenda, 
Member  States  have  many  other  opportunities  to 
inform  themselves,  including  by  visiting  the  Council’s 
numerous open meetings. 
in  July  of 

Along  with  improving  the  format  and  content  of 
Security  Council  reports,  positive  evolutions  in  the 
working  methods  of  the  Council  continue  and  its 
practice  of  holding  open  debates  and  briefings  has 
expanded.  An  important  milestone  in  this  regard  was 
the  Council’s  adoption 
revised 
presidential  note 
(S/2010/507,  annex).  The  note 
reflected  an  array  of  new  elements  in  the  work  of  the 
Council, including enshrining the intent of its members 
to 
the  country 
configurations  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  to 
participate  in  official  meetings  of  the  Council  in  order 
to  consider  the  relevant  countries’  situations.  It  also 
calls  for  their  participation  in  an  exchange  of  views 
with Council members in informal dialogue. 
invite,  as  needed, 
the  chairs  of 
the 
balance 
the  Council  must 
The  Russian  delegation  is  of  the  view  that  the 

in  future  maintain  a 
work  of 
reasonable 
and 
effectiveness,  in  the  understanding  that  the  important 
thing is to build the Council’s capacity to discharge its 
Charter responsibilities to  maintain  international peace 
and security. 
transparency 
between 
A/65/PV.48
the  Security  Council  and 
We  favour  a  further  deepening  of  interaction 

between 
the  General 
Assembly.  In  this  area,  we  need  to  focus  on  those 
spheres  in  which  real  cooperation  between  these  two 
main organs of the United Nations is not only possible 
but necessary, on the basis of mutual acknowledgement 
of their respective authorities. 

As  a  permanent  member  of  the  Council,  Russia 
has  consistently  called  for  enhancing  the  effectiveness 
of  the  Council’s  work,  including  by  making  it  more 
representative.  However,  efforts  in  this  direction  must 
not  have  a  negative 
the  Council’s 
functionality.  We  are  in  favour  of  maintaining  a 
compact  membership  of  the  Council,  and  we  are 
convinced that ideas that would lead to an infringement 
of  the  prerogatives  of  current  permanent  members, 
including the veto, would be counterproductive. 
impact  on 
the  negotiations’ 

It  is  our  view  that  the  final  formula  for  Security 
Council reform must be based on the broadest possible 
support  of  the  membership.  The  proposed  models  of 
Council reform have not enjoyed such report to date. It 
is  therefore  necessary  at  this  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  continue  our  negotiating  work  to  bring 
positions  closer together. We  anticipate that the  efforts 
of the President of the General Assembly and the work 
of 
the  Permanent 
Representative of Afghanistan, Ambassador Tanin, will 
be  aimed  first  and  foremost  at  providing  as  much 
assistance  as  possible  in  achieving  this  goal,  in  the 
understanding  that  the  ownership  of  the  negotiating 
the  Member  States 
process  must 
themselves.  This  work  must  be  conducted 
in  a 
transparent  and  inclusive  manner,  without  artificial 
timelines. How far we advance in the talks will depend 
on the political will and readiness of States to achieve a 
reasonable and effective compromise. 
remain  with 
facilitator, 
Mr.  Nishida  (Japan):  I  would  like  to  thank  the 

President  of  the  General  Assembly  for  convening 
today’s  plenary  meeting  to  discuss  the  report  of  the 
Security  Council 
(A/65/2)  and  Security  Council 
reform.  I  would  also  like  to  extend  my  appreciation  to 
Ambassador  Mark  Lyall  Grant  of  the  United  Kingdom 
for  introducing  the  report  in  his  capacity  as  President 
of the Council. 

It was indeed fortunate that President Deiss chose 
global  governance  as  the  theme  for  the  general  debate 
of the current session in September. During the debate, 
all  Member  States  responded  positively  to  this  theme 
10-63228 

21 
A/65/PV.48 


and  reaffirmed  that  the  United  Nations  is  the  central 
forum for global governance. In this regard, it was very 
timely  that  he  convened  and  presided  over  the  first 
meeting  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  of  the 
current  session  on  21  October,  in  accordance  with 
decision  64/568.  At  that  meeting,  his  appointment  of 
Ambassador Zahir Tanin to chair the intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  his  behalf  was  endorsed  by  Member 
States.  Japan  welcomes  the  President’s  strong  interest 
in  this  issue.  We  trust  that  he  and  Ambassador  Tanin 
will  exercise  strong  leadership  in  guiding  us  towards 
producing substantive results during this session. 

The  Security  Council  must  reflect  the  political 
realities  of  the  twenty-first  century.  The  Council  has 
been  reformed  only  once,  more  than  45  years  ago,  to 
increase the number of non-permanent members from 6 
to  10.  The  membership  of  the  United  Nations  has 
expanded by approximately 65 per cent since then. The 
number  of  Member  States,  especially  from  Asia  and 
Africa, has increased dramatically during these years. 

Reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  long  overdue. 
Our political leaders recognized this in the Millennium 
Declaration (resolution  55/2) in  2000, and  again in the 
2005  World  Summit  Outcome  Document  (resolution 
60/1).  During  the  general  debate  of  the  sixty-fifth 
session  in  September,  the  majority  of  political  leaders 
of  Member  States  stressed 
reforms, 
including  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  need  to  be 
undertaken  to  ensure  that  the  Organization  is  able  to 
fulfil its responsibilities. 
that  urgent 
all 
almost 
permanent 

At  the  first  meeting  of  the  negotiations  on  21 
October, 
representatives 
reiterated  the  necessity  of  early  reform  of  the  Security 
Council. While on his visit to Japan in the last week of 
October,  President  Deiss  also  emphasized  repeatedly 
that  a  strong  United  Nations  requires  a  decisive  effort 
to reform the Security Council, among other organs. 

We  believe  that  realizing  early  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  will  require  political  will  and  high-
level action on the part of Member States. To that end, 
the Foreign Ministers of the Group of Four met in New 
York  on  24  September  for  an  exchange  of  views  on 
Security  Council  reform.  We  committed  ourselves  to 
continuing 
the 
in 
intergovernmental  negotiations  and 
to  work 
cooperation  with  other  countries  with  a  view 
to 
achieving concrete results during the current session. 
participate 
actively 
to 
in 

Japan’s position is that the Security Council must 
be  reformed  through  modifications  that  include  the 
expansion  of  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
categories  of  membership,  as  well  as  improvement  in 
the Council’s working methods, so as to make the body 
more  broadly  representative,  legitimate,  effective  and 
responsive  to  the  realities  of  the  current  international 
community. 
the 
readiness,  capacity 

An  enlarged  Security  Council  should  include,  on 
a  permanent  basis,  those  Member  States  that  have 
demonstrated  well 
and 
resources  to  play  an  important  role  in  the  Security 
Council  in  the  twenty-first  century.  In  the  general 
debate  on  24  September,  Prime  Minister  Naoto  Kan 
confirmed  this  goal  by  stressing  Japan’s  determined 
aspiration 
take  on  further  responsibilities  for 
international  peace  and  security  as  a  permanent 
member of the Security Council (see A/65/PV.14). 
to 
Now  is the  time  to  move to the  next phase in  the 

this  round,  we 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  In 
should  not  permit  ourselves 
to  simply  continue 
debating  and  repeating  what  transpired  in  the  previous 
five  rounds.  Japan,  for  its  part,  will  spare  no  effort  to 
help  accelerate  the  work  in  order  to  produce,  by  the 
end of this  year, a revised negotiating text that is  more 
concise  and  useful  for  negotiation  purposes.  Japan  has 
already  begun  and  continues  to  engage  more  actively 
with  other  delegations,  including  those  of  African 
States,  in  a  flexible  manner  in  order  to  prepare  the 
ground  for  concrete  action  with  a  view  to  achieving 
tangible results during the current session. 
the  Security  Council 
If  we  continue  to  defer  reform  and  the  current 

composition  of 
remains 
unchanged,  we  are  concerned  that  not  only  the  ability 
of the  United  Nations  to carry  out  self-reform  but  also 
the  Council’s 
increasingly 
questioned.  Security  Council  reform  is  not  simply  a 
matter  of  concern  for  a  small  number  of  Member 
States. This task is a common responsibility of those of 
us  representing  Member  States  now  on  behalf  of 
generations to come. 
legitimacy  will  be 
Even  after 

the  Security  Council  has  been 
expanded, it  will  continue  to  make  decisions that  have 
an  impact  on  the  wider  membership  of  the  United 
a 
Nations,  with 
countries 
participating 
in 
the  decision-making  process.  The 
working  methods  of the  Security  Council  are therefore 
crucial  to  its  effective  functioning,  and  enhancing  the 
limited  number  of 
22 

10-63228 


Council’s  transparency,  efficiency  and  interaction  with 
non-Council  members  benefits  Council  members  and 
non-members  alike.  Such  efforts  are  essential  if  the 
Security  Council  is  to  fulfil  its  responsibility  to  act 
promptly  and  effectively  in  favour  of  international 
peace and security. 

The  Security  Council  has  been  conducting  an 
ongoing discussion on the  improvement  of its  working 
methods.  During  Japan’s  presidency  in  April,  the 
Security  Council  held  an  open  debate  on  working 
methods.  While  noting  the  improvements  made  in 
recent  years,  most  non-members  called  for  further 
enhancement,  transparency  and  interaction  with  the 
wider membership. Taking note of the views expressed 
by Member States during the open debate, the Informal 
Working  Group  on  Documentation 
and  Other 
Procedural  Questions,  which  I  currently  chair,  worked 
to  revise  the  presidential  note  on  working  methods 
(S/2006/507). 
note 
(S/2010/507)  was  adopted  by  the  Council  on  27  July. 
The new note accurately reflects the current procedures 
and practices of the Council. 
presidential 
revised 
The 
the  annual 
report  under 

The  revised  note  also  clarifies  the  guidelines  for 
the  preparation  of 
the 
leadership  of  the  President  of  the  Council  for  the 
month  of  July  of  each  calendar  year.  Japan  welcomes 
the  fact  that  the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council 
was prepared in line with the revised presidential note. 
We  commend  the  efforts  made  by  Nigeria  to  interact 
with  non-members  in  the  preparation  of  the  annual 
report 
interaction  has  been 
increasing  in  recent  years.  We  also  welcome  the  fact 
that 
the  Council’s  working 
methods  achieved  during  the  reporting  period  were 
described  for  the  first  time  in  the  introduction  of  the 
annual report. 
this  year.  Such 
improvements 
the 
for 
in 

I  would  like  to  conclude  by  reiterating  Japan’s 
continuing  commitment  to  improving  the  working 
methods of the Council. 
Mr.  Li  Baodong  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  I 

would  like  to  thank  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
the  United  Kingdom  for  his  briefing  on  behalf  of  the 
Security  Council  on  the  annual  report  of  the  Security 
Council  to  the  General  Assembly  (A/65/2).  I  would 
also  like  to  thank  Nigeria  and  the  Secretariat  for  their 
efforts in drafting the report. 

Council  with 
The  United  Nations  Charter  entrusts  the  Security 
the 
responsibility 
the  primary 
for 
A/65/PV.48
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  Over 
the  past  year,  the  Council  has  been  committed  to  the 
peace  and  reconstruction  process  in  Afghanistan,  Iraq 
and  Haiti,  and  ensured  the  smooth  transition  from 
peacekeeping to peacebuilding in countries such as the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Sierra  Leone  and 
Timor-Leste.  It  has  supported 
the  deployment  of 
peacekeepers in the  Sudan  and pushed  for the  political 
process 
supported 
preventive  diplomacy  and  the  settlement  of  disputes 
through  peaceful  means,  such  as  good  offices, 
mediation, dialogue and consultation. 
in  Darfur.  The  Council  has 

The  Council  has  made  ongoing  efforts  to  combat 
terrorism  and  prevent  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of 
mass  destruction  and  transnational  organized  crime.  It 
attaches  importance  to  strengthened  cooperation  with 
regional  and  subregional  organizations  and  protection 
of  the  rights  and  interests  of  women  and  children  in 
armed conflict. 

Nevertheless,  the  Middle  East  peace  process  still 
faces  severe  challenges  and  the  situation  in  Somalia 
remains unstable. The Security Council needs to play a 
bigger role in some long-standing hotspot issues. 

Improving  the  working  methods  of  the  Security 
Council and increasing its transparency will enable the 
Council  to  better  carry  out  its  responsibilities.  The 
Council  has  made  efforts  in  this  regard,  such  as 
holding more open meetings and debates, strengthening 
its  communication  with  the  General  Assembly,  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  and  other  main  organs 
and  agencies  of  the  United  Nations,  and  increasing 
exchanges  with  non-Council  members  and  countries 
contributing  troops  to  peacekeeping  operations.  The 
Informal Working  Group  on  Documentation  and  Other 
Procedural  Questions  has  made  a  contribution  in  this 
area.  China  supports  the  further  improvement  of  the 
Security Council’s working methods. 

The  international  community  is  now  faced  with 
increasing  common  challenges  in  the  areas  of  peace 
and security. We hope that the Council  will put greater 
emphasis  on  Africa’s  requests  and  support  the  efforts 
of the African Union to maintain peace and security on 
the continent. The Council needs to  make better use of 
peaceful means, such as good offices and mediation, to 
prevent  conflicts  and  turmoil,  reform  and  improve 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations,  and  support 
post-conflict  peacebuilding  so  as  to  make  a  greater 
contribution to international peace and security. 
10-63228 

23 
A/65/PV.48 


improve 

China supports a necessary and reasonable reform 
of the Security Council. The reform should include not 
only  an  expansion  of  the  Council’s  membership,  but 
also  an  improvement  in  its  working  methods.  The 
reform  should  help 
the  authority  and 
efficiency  of  the  Council  and  enable  it  to  fulfil  more 
effectively  the  responsibilities  entrusted  to  it  by  the 
United  Nations  Charter.  Security  Council  reform 
should give top priority to increasing the representation 
of  developing  countries,  in  particular  that  of  African 
countries,  and  give  more  small  and  medium-sized 
countries access to the Council and its decision-making 
process. 
Security  Council  reform 

is  a  complex  and 
difficult project to engineer, as it involves the future of 
the  United  Nations  and  the  immediate  interests  of  all 
Member  States.  Member  States  are  still  divided  over 
the  approaches  to  the  reform.  It  is  necessary  to 
persevere  with  democratic  and  patient  consultations 
and  to  meet  each  other  halfway.  China  is  opposed  to 
setting artificial time limits. 

The  five  clusters  of  issues  concerning  Security 
Council  reform  are  closely  interlinked  and  should  not 
be  addressed  in  isolation.  There  has  to  be  a  package 
solution  to  the  reform.  A  piecemeal  or  step-by-step 
approach  will  lead  nowhere.  China  supports  continued 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform  and  appreciates  the  efforts  made  by  President 
Deiss 
the 
intergovernmental negotiations. 
and  Ambassador  Tanin, 
chair 
of 
intergovernmental  negotiations 

We  hope  that  the  Assembly  will,  pursuant  to 
decision  62/557,  continue  at  this  session  to  conduct 
in 
member-driven 
accordance  with 
openness, 
transparency  and  inclusiveness,  and  make  vigorous 
efforts 
that  garners  general 
agreement  among  Member  States  and  that  serves  the 
common  interests  of  Member  States  and  the  long-term 
interests of the United Nations. 
to  seek  a  solution 
principles 
the 
of 
the  United  Kingdom 
I  would  like  to  express  our  gratitude  to  the 

Security  Council  and 
for 
providing  us  with  a  comprehensive  overview  of  the 
growing  number  of  immediate  and  long-term  strategic 
and  operational  activities  and  questions,  as  well  as 
thematic 
that  go  beyond 
geopolitical  conflicts  to  global  peace  and  security 
concerns.  We  note  with  satisfaction  the  new  areas 
encompassed  by  the  Council’s  subsidiary  organs  and 
working  groups  and  its  cooperation  with  regional  and 
subregional organizations to accomplish its mandate. 
and  general 
issues, 
impacting  all 
The  rapid  augmentation  of  the  Council’s  scope, 

focus  and  activities, 
regions  and 
populations  of  the  world,  obliges  the  international 
community  to  speedily  reform  that  key  organ  of  the 
United  Nations.  It  is  evident  that  there  is  a  close 
connection between the effective implementation of its 
mandate,  on  the  one  hand,  and  the  issues  of  equitable 
geographical  representation,  categories  of  membership 
and the veto right, more efficient working methods and 
the  relationship  with  the  General  Assembly,  on  the 
other. 

It  was three  years ago that  the  General Assembly 
adopted  the  historic  decision  62/557  to  commence 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  reform  process, 
and  we  commend  the  efforts  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations, 
the 
Ambassador  of  Afghanistan,  Mr.  Zahir  Tanin,  in  this 
direction. 
chairmanship 
under 
the 
of 
The 
commitment 
of  Member  States 
for  greater  political  will 

to 
unanimously  agreeing  to  start  discussions  on  five 
major reform  issues  marks  an important  milestone  and 
the 
calls 
intergovernmental 
The 
Council’s  accountability  to  the  General  Assembly  is 
clear,  as  stated  in  Article  24  of  the  Charter.  We 
therefore  reiterate  calls  by  Member  States  for  greater 
transparency and the  wider participation of the general 
membership in peace and security issues. 
negotiations 
successful. 
to  make 
Mrs.  Aitimova  (Kazakhstan):  The  delegation  of 

Kazakhstan  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly  for  organizing  once  again  this  joint 
general  debate  to  discuss  such  important  issues  as  the 
report  of  the  Security  Council  (A/65/2)  and  item  119 
on  the  question  of  equitable  representation  on  and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council and 
related matters. 

Kazakhstan  once  again  confirms  its  commitment 
to  reform  of  the  United  Nations,  and  primarily  the 
Council  in  terms  of  increasing  its  membership  in  the 
categories  of  permanent  and  non-permanent  members 
so  as 
representation.  My 
delegation  reconfirms  its  position  on  increasing  the 
Council’s  membership  from  the  existing  number  of  15 
to  25  by  establishing  six  permanent  and  four  non-
permanent Security Council seats. 
to  enhance 
regional 
24 

10-63228 



The  present  procedure  of  the  negotiation  process 
calls  for  a  new  intermediate  formula  to  bridge  the 
divergence  between  the  majority  of  Member  States 
favouring an increase of the Council in both categories 
and  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group,  which  insists  on 
expanding only the category of non-permanent seats. It 
is  thus  advisable  to  examine  this  intermediate  strategy 
in  a  spirit  of  compromise  and  inclusiveness  during  the 
ongoing  negotiation  process,  rather  than  start  a  fresh 
round of negotiations. 

We  propose  that  new  permanent  members  be 
granted the veto right only after an assessment of their 
work and contribution to peace and security through an 
ongoing mandatory review at the Conference; but their 
entry should not be delayed for too long. 

The  Council  has  repeatedly  proven  its  inability, 
based  on  its  structure  and  working  methods,  to  agree 
on  common  action  in  military  conflicts  and  sudden 
emergencies with far-reaching humanitarian or security 
implications  for  the  international  community.  We  need 
to  strengthen  the  cooperation  modalities  between  the 
Council  and  the  Assembly,  which  by  definition  is  a 
more  democratic  body  representing  the  interests  of  all 
Member  States,  in  order  to  facilitate  more  informed 
decisions and actions by the Council. 

We  welcome  the  measure  to  increase  the  number 
of open meetings of the Security Council and to reduce 
its  closed  meetings,  but  we  also  expect  greater 
transparency.  Currently,  non-member  States 
invest 
much time and effort in seeking vital information about 
closed  consultations  from  external  sources.  The  data 
culled  may  be  too  late,  not  available  at  all,  or 
inappropriate.  Non-members  of  the  Security  Council 
need  to  know  first-hand  the  deliberations,  decisions 
and  positions  of  each  Council  member  on  subjects 
considered  so 
that  our  Governments  can  more 
appropriately  decide  on  State  policies  and  actions, 
thereby  strengthening  the  Security  Council’s  authority 
and the public’s trust in its mandate. 

However,  there  remains  the  potential  threat  of 
reaching  a  deadlock  in  the  Security  Council  reform 
deliberations,  which  my  delegation  would like to avert 
at  all  costs.  Hence,  commencing  discussions  on  the 
paper  by  including  in  it  each  proposal  of  every 
Member  State  without  exception  could 
to 
innovative ideas and a compromise decision reached by 
the maximum possible majority. 
lead 
A/65/PV.48
To  conclude,  I  would  like  to  express  once  again 

the  readiness  of  Kazakhstan 
to  work  with  other 
Member  States  to  reach  an  agreement  on  United 
Nations reforms, with reform of the Security Council at 
its core. 
Mrs.  Viotti  (Brazil):  This  year’s  debate  on  the 

annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  (A/65/2)  and  on 
Security  Council  reform  has  special  meaning  for  my 
delegation.  Brazil  has  had  the  honour  to  serve  on  the 
Council  as  a  non-permanent  member  for  seven  of  the 
12  months  covered  by  the  report  before  us.  During 
such  time,  we  have  striven  to  honour  the  trust  the 
membership placed on us last November. 

As  in  previous  mandates,  we  have  been  active 
and  constructive  in  all  items  on  the  Security  Council’s 
agenda.  We  have  also  been  consistently  and  firmly 
independent,  while  willing  to  cooperate  with  other 
delegations  and  compromise  when  needed  and 
warranted.  We  have  also  remained  attentive  to  the 
needs and interests of the wider membership. 

An  important  aspect  of  our  work  on  the  Security 
Council  has  been  helping  to  improve  the  Council’s 
working  methods  in  order  to  make  the  organ  more 
transparent  and  accessible.  We  actively  supported  the 
revision  of  presidential  note  S/2006/507,  which 
consolidates  some  relatively  recent  efforts  of  the 
Council  to  meaningfully  interact  with  Member  States. 
Among 
informal 
interactive dialogues and the possibility of inviting the 
Chairs  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  to  pertinent 
informal consultations. Brazil will continue to work for 
concrete and effective reforms in the  working  methods 
of the Council. 
I  would  single  out 
them, 
the 

Our  experience  in the  Security  Council  has  made 
even  clearer  to  us  the  urgent  need  to  expand  the 
Council  in  both  categories  of  its  membership.  It  has 
also  become  evident  that  we  need  to  increase  the 
participation  of  developed  and  developing  countries 
alike,  including African  countries.  Only  such  a  reform 
will  enable  the  Council  to  preserve  and  enhance  its 
legitimacy 
increasing 
transparency  and  access  to  non-members.  Fortunately, 
the  overwhelming  majority  of  the  membership  has 
already identified that need. For almost two years now, 
under  the  wise  and  able  guidance  of  our  facilitator, 
Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  we  have  exhaustively 
exchanged  views  on  Security  Council  reform.  It  has 
become  clear  that  most  Member  States  favour  the 
effectiveness,  while 
and 
10-63228 

25 
A/65/PV.48 

expansion  of 
membership. 
the  Council 
in  both  categories  of 


It  is  also  evident  that  the  mere  addition  of  non-
permanent  members,  even  if  their  terms  were  longer 
than  the  current  two  years,  would  only  preserve  the 
status  quo.  Notwithstanding 
important 
contribution  that  non-permanent  members  have  made 
and continue to make to the Council — and I thank the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Italy  for  noting  our 
appreciation for their role — true reform of the Council 
requires  the  establishment  of  new  permanent  members 
committed to such reform. 
the  very 
the 
set  of  perspectives 
Our  experience  also  shows  that  we  need  to 

expand 
and  positions 
represented  in  the  Security  Council  in  order  to  better 
understand  and  effectively  cope  with  challenges  to  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  We 
must  therefore  see  the  number  of  seats  increase  to 
around 25 or 26 — numbers that seem to accommodate 
all  those  perspectives.  Let  me  add  that  we  also  concur 
with  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Italy  on  the 
advisability  of  reviewing  the  situation  created  by  the 
reform,  and  that  is  why  the  Group  of  Four  (G-4) 
proposal  includes  a  review  clause  after  a  period  of 
15 years. 

At  the  sixty-fourth  session,  at  the  request  of  an 
overwhelming  majority,  the  Chair  of  the  negotiations 
provided  us  with  a  negotiating  text  that  includes  all 
positions  presented  by  Member  States  and  which  has 
been  accepted  by  all.  The  present  session  has  had  an 
auspicious  start.  We  warmly  welcome  the  prompt 
resumption of the intergovernmental negotiations in the 
informal  plenary  of 
the 
reappointment of Ambassador Zahir Tanin as facilitator 
of the process. 
this  Assembly, 
and 

We  cannot  spend  yet  another  year  on  statements. 
Decisive  progress  must  be  made  during  the  current 
session,  for  we  cannot  afford  to  waste  the  momentum 
gained  last  year  and  the  current  favourable  juncture, 
which includes Mr. Deiss’s presidency. We reiterate our 
call  for  a  streamlined  negotiating  text  that  is  more 
workable  and  operational.  We  continue  to  believe  that 
Mr.  Deiss’s 
initiative,  given  his 
authority  and  impartiality,  would  be  crucial  to  the 
preparation  of  such  a  document  and  for  its  wide 
acceptance. 
leadership  and 
among  Member  States.  During 

Brazil and its G-4 partners are willing to heed the 
call from the President and Ambassador Tanin for more 
interaction 
the 
following  month,  we  will  be  reaching  out  to  fellow 
delegations  seeking  ways  to  bridge  the  gaps  between 
the  various  positions.  The  G-4  itself  renewed  its 
commitment  to  the  process  and  reaffirmed  its  unity  of 
purpose in a ministerial meeting held last September in 
New York. 
My  delegation  has  always  engaged 

the 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  with  an  open 
mind  and  with  determination.  We  will  continue  to  do 
so. 
in 
Mr.  Wenaweser  (Liechtenstein):  We  welcome 

this  opportunity  to  discuss  two  closely  interlinked 
topics:  the  report  of  the  Security  Council (A/65/2)  and 
the question of its reform. As a member of the group of 
five  small  nations  (S-5),  we  fully  associate  ourselves 
with  the  statement  made  by  Switzerland  earlier  today. 
We  are  grateful  to  the  President  for  his  personal 
engagement  in  the  reform  process,  to  Ambassador 
Tanin 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  and  to  the  current 
President  of  the  Security  Council,  Ambassador  Lyall 
Grant, for introducing the report of the Council. 
for  his  continued  efforts 
leading 
in 
the  Council’s  annual 

We  believe  that  the  United  Nations  Charter 
establishes a relationship of accountability between the 
Council  and  the  membership  of  the  Organization,  on 
whose behalf the Council carries out its functions. The 
consideration  of 
is 
therefore  one  of  the  most  important  elements  in  that 
relationship.  The 
ritualistic  and  highly  repetitive 
manner  in  which  the  report  is  considered  year  after 
year does not do justice to the opportunity we have and 
to the role which the report could and should play — as 
an opportunity to reflect on the overall performance of 
the Organization in the area of peace and security. 
report 

The  task  of  making  the  debate  more  meaningful 
rests both with the Council — in particular, by offering 
a  report  that  can  serve  as  a  basis  for  a  substantive 
political  discussion  —  and  the  rest  of  the  United 
Nations  membership,  which  should  engage 
in  a 
substantive discussion instead of stereotypical criticism 
of  the  report.  We  hope  that  this  year’s  debate  and  its 
aftermath  can  mark  the  beginning  of  more  fruitful 
discussion. 
26 

10-63228 



The  S-5  has  made  several  concrete  proposals  to 
strengthen  the  format  and  content  of  the  report,  the 
process  in  which  it  is  drafted  and  the  format  of  its 
consideration  by 
the  wider  membership.  We  will 
continue  to  work  in  that  spirit  and  make  positive 
contributions.  We  note  with  appreciation 
some 
improvements that have been made in the format of the 
report,  such  as  the  reflection  of  majority  and  minority 
views  of  States  in  the  summaries  of  some  debates, 
which  is  a  helpful  practice  that  should  be  expanded  to 
all  summaries.  We  are  also  pleased  that  the  updated 
note  by 
the  Security  Council 
(S/2010/507)  formalizes  the  process  leading  to  the 
production of the report’s introduction. 
the  President  of 

In  that  context,  we  take  note  of  the  consultations 
with  the  wider  membership  conducted  in  advance  of 
the  report’s  production.  That  practice  should  be 
combined with a further informal consultation once the 
draft report is available. We also reiterate our view that 
the report should try to reflect the cross-cutting impact 
of  thematic  issues,  which  would  be  an  important 
improvement,  not  just  for  the  format  of  the  report,  but 
because  it  would  likely  help  the  Council  to  overcome 
one  of  the  weaknesses  of  its  daily  work,  since  the 
reflection  of  decisions  on  thematic  issues  remains  one 
of the big challenges for the Council. 

Finally,  we  note  the  link  between  the  monthly 
assessments by Council Presidents and the introduction 
of  the  report,  which  is  a  welcome  development  that 
enables  each  Council  member  to  positively  influence 
the  quality  of  the  report  by  submitting  an  analytical 
assessment at the close of its presidency. 

The  S-5  has  welcomed  the  updating  of  the  note 
by  the  President  of  the  Security  Council  contained  in 
document  S/2010/507,  in  particular,  some  of  the  new 
elements  such  as  guidance  for  Security  Council 
missions  and  interactive  debates.  The  note  is  thus  a 
useful  compilation  of 
the 
Council.  At  the  same  time,  it  does  not  address  some 
important  subjects  that  we  have  been  raising  for  a 
number  of  years  and  it  also  does  not  provide  any 
mechanisms  for  the  consistent  implementation  of  the 
measures contained in the note itself. Indeed, document 
S/2010/507  should  therefore  not  be  the  end,  but  rather 
the  end  of  the  beginning  of  the  process  to  improve 
working methods. 
tools  available 
the 
to 

We  look  forward  to  continuing  working  directly 
with  the  Council,  the  Informal  Working  Group  on 
A/65/PV.48
Documentation  and  Other  Procedural  Questions,  and 
wish, of course, in the framework of the reform process 
in  the  General Assembly  plenary,  to  make  the  Council 
and  its  work  more  accountable,  more  legitimate  and 
more transparent, as our leaders decided at the summit 
meeting  in  2005.  We  are  grateful  to  those  Council 
members  who  share  the  view  that  improving  the 
working  methods  of  the  Council  will  help  improve  its 
standing.  In  that  respect,  we  warmly  welcome  the 
innovations  announced  by  the  United  Kingdom  on  the 
assumption of its presidency this  month. It is our hope 
that 
explore 
innovative approaches. 
subsequent  presidencies  will 
also 

There  is  a  substantive  linkage  between  working 
methods  and  the  enlargement  of  the  Council,  although 
progress  on  the  former  does  not  depend  on  a  decision 
with respect to the latter. In the end, the enlargement of 
the Council is done through a set of amendments to the 
United  Nations  Charter,  while  working  methods  are 
improved through an ongoing process. 
that 
to  believe 
the  Council 
We  continue 
the  current 

composition  of 
is  neither  a  faithful 
reflection of the membership of the Organization nor of 
today’s  geopolitical  realities.  Enlarging  the  Council  is 
thus  both  necessary  and  urgent.  That  is  why,  a  while 
back,  we  submitted  an  intermediate  solution  as  a 
possible  way  out  of  the  deadlock  created  by  the  well-
known positions on the table. For ease of reference, we 
have  attached  a  copy  of  our  model  of  an  intermediate 
solution 
to  hard  copies  of  my  statement  being 
distributed this morning. 

The  proposed  solution  would  create  a  new 
category of seats, allowing  Member States to serve for 
longer  terms  —  for  example,  for  8  or  10  years  —  to 
stand  for  immediate  re-election  and  thus  to  serve  on  a 
permanent  basis  as  Council  members.  After 
the 
completion  of  two  terms  using  the  new  category  of 
seats, the new regime would be subject to a review that 
would comprise all essential aspects of Council reform, 
but at the same time  would not entail any automaticity 
with regard to substantive outcomes. We are pleased to 
see  that  intermediate  models  are  also  promoted  and 
explored  by  others,  and  we  would  be  interested  in  a 
process  that  leads  to  the  emergence  of  a  single 
intermediate model. 
We 
look 

to  Ambassador  Tanin’s 
leadership  in  engaging  the  membership  in  substantive 
negotiations and will support him in those efforts. 
forward 
10-63228 

27 
A/65/PV.48 


(spoke 
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

in  Spanish):  The  Bolivarian 
Venezuela) 
Republic  of  Venezuela  associates 
the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  the  Arab 
Republic  of  Egypt  in  its  capacity  as  the  Chair  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement. 
itself  with 

The report of the Security Council (A/65/2) raises 
a  variety  of  concerns,  which  have  already  been 
mentioned  by  many  delegations. A  very  important  one 
is that this organ is  increasingly  encroaching on issues 
on  the  agenda  of  the  General  Assembly,  thereby 
weakening  the  role  that  should  be  played  by  the 
community  of  nations  —  the  “G-192”.  That  can  be 
seen  not  only  with  respect  to  some  items  on  working 
group  agendas,  but  also  in  connection  with  broad 
themes  such  as  violence  against  children  in  conflict, 
sexual  violence  against  women 
the 
protection of  civilians  in  armed  conflict  and  the issues 
of  drugs,  justice  and  the  rule  of  law  and  intercultural 
dialogue, among others. 
in  conflict, 
the  scourge  of 

We  have  no  doubt  that  the  Security  Council  has 
had  some  success  in  addressing  situations  in  some 
countries  suffering  from 
internal 
violence  —  not  infrequently  fomented  from  abroad  to 
achieve  economic  gains.  However,  the  Council  has 
overstepped  some  of 
the  mandates  conferred  by 
resolutions  on  peacekeeping  operations  and  has  taken 
on functions having to do, for instance, with reforming 
electoral,  judicial,  penal  and  public  safety  systems,  to 
name just a few.  
it  addresses  matters  having 
As  we  move  towards  rebuilding 

the  United 
Nations  to  align  it  with  the  demands  of  the  world  and 
of all the countries that make up this forum, we have to 
ask  ourselves  how  the  Security  Council  functions  and 
how 
to  do  with 
international  peace  and  security.  Developing  countries 
are  sometimes  criminalized  for  alleged  lack  of  respect 
for  Security  Council  resolutions  or  the  Charter,  while, 
at  the  same  time,  by  means  of  the  veto,  others,  which 
with impunity fail to observe the norms of international 
law,  are  absolved  from  their  human  rights  and  Geneva 
Conventions obligations. 

The  Security  Council  report  does  not  include 
many  of  the  observations  that  numerous  non-members 
of  the  Council  have  made  in  open  debates  on  various 
topics  on  the  United  Nations  agenda.  That  is  the  case 
with  regard  to the  fight  against  terrorism,  the  situation 
in  the  Middle  East  and  the  question  of  Palestine.  It  is 
28 

necessary  that  the  United  Nations  and  its  organs,  in 
particular the Security Council, implement a strategy to 
preserve peace and security that reflects the interests of 
all the countries and peoples of the world. 

We  express  our  appreciation  to  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  for  his  interest  in  moving 
forward with an issue of such crucial importance as the 
reform  of  the  Security  Council,  and  that  of  the  United 
Nations as a whole. We also commend the performance 
of Ambassador  Zahir Tanin,  Permanent  Representative 
of  Afghanistan,  as 
informal 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  In  accordance  with 
General  Assembly  decisions  62/557,  63/565  and 
64/568,  we  must  move  forward  so  that,  in  the  near 
future,  we  can  have  a  Security  Council  that  is  more 
democratic  and  more  transparent,  and  therefore  more 
legitimate. 
facilitator  of 
the 
the 
of 
issues 
For  Venezuela, 

equitable 
representation  on  the  Security  Council,  increasing  its 
membership  and  related  matters  are  closely  related  to 
the  Organization’s  ability  to  fully  fulfil  the  purposes 
and  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter.  In  that  regard, 
there  is  a  need  for  progress  in  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations, which have already produced a document 
setting  out 
the  positions  of  Member  States.  We 
appreciate the work of Ambassador Tanin in compiling 
that  document.  It  is  now  necessary  to  move  towards  a 
synthesis  that  encompasses  the  majority  positions  in 
the  five  thematic  areas  around  which  the  informal 
negotiations have centred. 

It  is  clear  that  a  majority  of  countries  favours 
expanding  the  Security  Council  in  both  the  permanent 
and  the  non-permanent  categories  of  membership. 
There  is  also  agreement  that  expansion  should  allow 
for  the  participation  of  countries  from  Latin  America 
and  the  Caribbean,  Africa  and  Asia  in  ambits  from 
which,  since  the  San  Francisco  Conference,  they  had 
been excluded. 

The  path  towards  rebuilding  and  democratizing 
the United Nations has been chartered. In order for it to 
be  relevant  at  the  present  historical  juncture,  the 
Organization  must  fairly,  effectively  and  transparently 
reflect 
the  entire 
international  community.  There  is  also  consensus  on 
the  need  to  make  the  working  methods  of  the  Security 
Council more transparent. 
interests  and  needs  of 
the 
The  desire  expressed  by  many  countries  to  limit 

or  eliminate  the  use  of  the  veto  in  the  future  has  also 
10-63228 


been  clearly  reflected  in  the  compilation  prepared  by 
the  facilitator.  It  is  important  to  underline  that  a 
majority of countries supports limitations of one sort or 
another  on  the  use  of  the  veto.  This  is  a  laudable 
starting  point  for  forging  a  common  position  on  that 
issue, as well as from the perspective of rebuilding and 
democratizing  the  United  Nations.  Along  that  path, 
Venezuela  will continue to  stress the  need  to  eliminate 
the veto right per se. 

Venezuela  is  confident  that,  with  the  President’s 
leadership,  we  will  be  able  to  move  forward  a  process 
to reform the Security Council and the United Nations. 
We  extend  our  cooperation  in  working  towards  that 
end. 
Mr.  Apakan  (Turkey):  I  would  like  to  begin  by 

thanking  the  President  of  the Assembly  for  convening 
this 
joint  meeting,  which  provides  yet  another 
opportunity  to  reflect  on  the  activities  of  the  Security 
Council,  as  well  as  on  the  Council’s  ongoing  reform 
process.  I  also  wish  to  express  our  appreciation  to  the 
United  Kingdom  as  President  of  the  Security  Council 
for  the  month  of  November  2010  for  presenting  the 
annual  report  of  the  Council  to  the  General  Assembly 
(A/65/2).  Let  me  also  thank  the  Permanent  Mission  of 
Nigeria  for  its  valuable  efforts  in  preparing  the  report 
and coordinating it with the Member States. 

The  report  provides  an  accurate  account  of  the 
work  of  the  Security  Council  and  demonstrates  the 
multiplicity of the issues that are on its agenda. It also 
points  to  the  heavy  workload  of  the  Council,  whereby 
African 
the  context  of 
peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding  efforts,  remain  at  the 
forefront. Finally, the report points, albeit indirectly, to 
many of the important challenges that lie ahead for the 
Council, and indeed for our Organization as a whole. 
issues,  particularly 
in 

While  the  report,  as  suggested  by  many  other 
delegations,  could  have  been  more  analytical  and  less 
descriptive, we are also well aware of the complexities 
that  would  have  rendered  such  an  analytical  approach 
rather difficult to implement. Having said that, there is 
still  much  room  for  further 
the 
working  methods  of  the  Security  Council  in  order  to 
enhance 
and 
inclusiveness. We will continue to support all efforts to  

improvement  of 
accountability 
its 
transparency, 
A/65/PV.48
that  end.  Member  States  have  recently  had  ample 
opportunity  to  express  their  positions  on  the  Security 
Council  reform  process.  However,  as  is  customary,  I 
would also like to briefly touch on Turkey’s position on 
Council reform. 

My  country  has  taken  an  active  part  in  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  that  began  in  February 
2009.  Although  the  past  five  rounds  of  negotiations 
have  been  useful  in  examining  negotiable  aspects  and 
exploring  the  basic  linkages  among  them,  we  believe 
that  the  membership  remains  seriously  divided  on 
issues  such  as  categories  of  membership,  regional 
representation and the question of the veto. 

As  a  current  member  of  the  Council,  serving 
again  on  the  Council  after  almost  half  a  century, 
Turkey  has  benefited  immensely  from  that  unique 
experience  and  responsibility.  We  believe  that  that 
experience  should  not  be  limited  to  a  small  group,  but 
has to be available to all aspiring Member States, large 
or small, developed or lesser developed. 

In  particular,  those  Member  States  that  have  the 
means  and  capabilities  to  ensure  peace  and  stability  in 
their  region  and  beyond  should  be  allowed  to  take  a 
more  active  part  in  the  work  of  the  Council.  We  are 
therefore  supportive  of  the  extended  representation  of 
such Member States on the Council. 
We  also  support  correction  of 
the  historic 

injustice  perpetrated  against  Africa  by  substantially 
improving  the  representation  of  that  continent  on  the 
Council. 

We do not, however, support the expansion of the 
Council  in  the  permanent  category  of  membership. 
Additional  permanent  seats,  in  our  view,  would  not 
bide  well  with  the  idea  of  a  democratic,  accountable 
and  transparent  Council.  If  the  reformed  Security 
Council is to be the Council not only of today, but also 
of  the  future,  it  is  imperative  that  we  all  concentrate 
our  best  efforts  on  proposals  that  will  provide  the 
Council  with  the  necessary  flexibility  as  regards  to  its 
composition. Such a Council will be better equipped to 
effectively  address  the  multitude  of  challenges  facing 
our world. 
The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m. 


10-63228 

29 
