
A/65/PV.47
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

47th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 9 November 2010, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 
Africa,  Spain,  Ukraine,  Uruguay  and  the  Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela. Therefore,  those  28  States  are 
not eligible in this election. 

I  should  now  like  to  inform  members  that  the 
following States have been nominated by the Economic 
and  Social  Council  —  Algeria,  Benin  and  Eritrea  for 
the three seats among the African States, China and the 
Republic of Korea — for two of the three seats among 
the Asian States and Antigua and Barbuda for the one 
seat among the Latin American and Caribbean States. 

In  accordance  with  rule  92  of  the  rules  of 
procedure, all elections should be held by secret ballot 
and  there  shall  be  no  nominations.  However,  I  should 
like  to  recall  paragraph  16  of  General  Assembly 
decision  34/401,  whereby  the  practice  of  dispensing 
with the secret ballot for elections to subsidiary organs 
when  the  number  of  candidates  corresponds  to  the 
number  of  seats  to  be  filled  should  become  standard, 
unless  a  delegation  specifically  requests  a  vote  on  a 
given election. 

In the absence of such a request, may I take it that 
the Assembly decides to proceed to the election on the 
basis of dispensing with the secret ballot? 
It was so decided. 

The President (spoke in French): The number of 

States  nominated  from  among  the  African  States,  the 
Asian  States  and  the  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States is equal to or less than the number of seats to be 
filled in each of those groups. 





  The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m. 

Agenda item 112 
Elections to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs and 
other elections 
  (a)  Election of seven members of the Committee 



for Programme and Coordination 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/65/291) 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  Pursuant  to 

General  Assembly  decision  42/450  of  17  December 
1987  and  on  the  nomination  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council,  the  Assembly  elects  the  members  of 
the Committee for Programme and Coordination. 

The Assembly  has  before  it  document A/65/291, 
which  contains  the  nominations  by  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  to  fill  the  vacancies  in  the  Committee 
that  will  occur  as  a  result  of  the  expiration,  on  31 
December 2010, of the terms of office of Bangladesh, 
China,  Jamaica,  Kenya,  the  Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya, 
the Niger and the Republic of Korea. 

eligible 
re-election. 

I  should  like  to  remind  members  that,  after 
1 January  2011,  the  following  States  will  still  be 
members  of 
the  Committee:  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Belarus,  Brazil,  the  Central  African  Republic,  the 
Comoros,  Cuba,  Guinea,  Haiti,  India,  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  Israel,  Italy,  Kazakhstan,  Namibia, 
Nigeria,  Pakistan, 
the  Russian  Federation,  South 
Those  States 
immediate 
are 
for 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-62897 (E) 
*1062897* 


A/65/PV.47 


May I therefore take it that the Assembly wishes 
to declare those States nominated by the Economic and 
Social  Council  —  Algeria,  Antigua  and  Barbuda, 
Benin,  China,  Eritrea  and  the  Republic  of  Korea  — 
elected members of the Committee for Programme and 
Coordination for a three-year term of office beginning 
on 1 January 2011? 
It was so decided. 

The  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  congratulate 

the  States  that  have  just  been  elected  members  of  the 
Committee for Programme and Coordination. 

Members  are  reminded  that  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council  postponed  the  nomination  of  one 
member  from  the  Asian  States  for  a  three-year  term 
beginning  on  1  January  2011.  The  General  Assembly 
will  be  in  a  position  to  act  on  that  vacancy  upon  the 
nomination by the Economic and Social Council of one 
Member State from that region. 

consideration of sub-item (a) of agenda item 112. 
this  stage  of  our 
thus  concluded 
We  have 

Agenda item 113 (continued) 
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments 
  (f)  Appointment of members of the Committee  

on Conferences 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/65/107) 




The President (spoke in French): As indicated in 

document  A/65/107,  since  the  terms  of  office  of 
Argentina,  Austria,  China,  Japan,  Kenya,  Tunisia  and 
the  United  States  of  America  will  expire  on 
31 December  2010,  it  will  be  necessary  for  the 
President  of  the  General Assembly  to  appoint,  during 
the current session, seven members in order to fill the 
resulting  vacancies.  Those  members  will  serve  for  a 
period of three years, beginning on 1 January 2011. 

On the recommendation of the regional groups, I 
have  appointed  Austria,  China,  Ethiopia,  Japan,  the 
Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya  and  the  United  States  of 
America as members of the Committee on Conferences 
for  a  period  of  three  years,  beginning  on  1  January 
2011. 

those appointments? 
It was so decided. 

The  President  (spoke in  French):  Regarding  the 

remaining vacant seat from among the Latin American 
and  Caribbean  States,  I  urge  that  regional  group  to 
submit its candidature as soon as possible. 

consideration of sub-item (f) of agenda item 113. 


The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
May  I  take  it  that  the  Assembly  takes  note  of 
  The meeting rose at 10.15 a.m. 
2 

10-62897 
