
A/65/PV.49
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-fifth session 

49th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 11 November 2010, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Deiss 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Switzerland) 
supports  Security  Council  reform.  That  position  dates 
back to the early years of the United Nations when, as 
a founding Member, the Philippines advocated reforms 
in the Council several years after its creation to make it 
more responsive and effective. 

Fast forward to the present: the Philippines is one 
of  the  Member  States  that  requested  the  Chair,  after 
several  rounds  of  talks,  to  reduce  the  positions  and 
views  of  the  different  delegations  to  writing.  We  are 
therefore  very  satisfied  that  the  Chair  heeded  our  call 
and ably produced a text that reflects all proposals on 
key  issues.  Some  prefer  to  call  it  a  compilation  text, 
while others want to call it a negotiation text. Whatever 
the  preference  may  be,  it  is  clear  that  we  now  have  a 
working draft that can serve as a basis for meaningful 
and  substantive  negotiations  in  the  course  of  which 
amendments or revisions may be introduced. 

The  Philippines  is  pleased  that  its  proposals  on 
all key issues are reflected in the text. I would just like 
to deal with one Philippine proposal that has caught the 
interest  of  other  delegations,  namely,  our  proposal  on 
the  size  of  an  enlarged  Security  Council.  Yes,  the 
Philippines  proposes  a  Council  with  31  members,  a 
number  perceived  by  some  as  too  extreme,  if  not 
wishful thinking. Of course there is a rationale behind 
that  number.  The  size  of  the  future  Security  Council 
the  principles  of 
must 
equitable 
geographical  distribution  and  balanced 
regional 
distribution.  At  the  same  time,  let  me  add  that  aside 
from being futuristic — as that number anticipates the 
ideal  size  of  the  Council  in  the  years  and  decades  to 
conform 
to 





  The meeting was called to order at 3 p.m. 



Agenda items 29 and 119 (continued)
Report of the Security Council (A/65/2) 
Question of equitable representation on and increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and 
related matters 
Mr. De Borja (Philippines): Mr. President, at the 

outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  you  for  putting  Security 
Council reform on the top of your busy agenda. At the 
same  time,  I  wish  to  congratulate  His  Excellency 
Ambassador Zahir Tanin, Permanent Representative of 
Afghanistan,  on  his  reappointment  as  Chair  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  reform  of  the 
Security Council for the Assembly’s sixty-fifth session. 

I  also  wish  to  thank  His  Excellency Ambassador 
Sir Mark Lyall Grant, Permanent Representative of the 
United Kingdom and President of the Security Council 
for  the  month  of  November,  for  introducing  this 
morning  the  annual  report  of  the  Council  (A/65/2), 
prepared by Nigeria, on the state of play in the Council 
(see A/65/PV.48). 

The Philippines aligns itself with the position set 
forth  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  the  Arab 
Republic  of  Egypt  who  spoke  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement at the 48th meeting. However, 
my delegation wishes to stress several key points. 

The  Philippine  position  on  this  issue  is  well 
known  and  remains  consistent.  Like  many  Member 
States,  the  Philippines  strongly  and  constructively 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
10-63467 (E) 
*1063467* 




A/65/PV.49 

come — the proposal is democratic and representative 
of all States Members of the Organization. 

I  will  not  go  through  the  details  or  elements  of 
that proposal  due to time constraints. Suffice it to say 
that  our  delegation  believes  that  if  we  are  given  the 
opportunity  in  future  negotiations  to  expound  on  our 
position on this item, other delegations will give it due 
consideration and a favourable response. 

The Philippines recognizes that Security Council 
reform  is  a  work  in  progress  and  not  a  quick  fix. 
However,  that  must  not  be  construed  as  though  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  should  be  a  never-
ending  process.  Yes,  it  is  imperative  to  reflect  on  all 
our  views  and  positions  —  that  is  part  of  our 
democratic  procedure  —  but  we  should  also  agree 
when to stop talking and start negotiating. 

We  have  done  sufficient  talking  already.  In 
essence, we have to move from rhetoric to action, to sit 
down  and  negotiate  —  agree  or  disagree,  as  the  case 
may  be  —  but  at  the  end  of  the  day,  we  need  to 
produce the results that we are all anxious to achieve. 

In that regard, the Philippine delegation proposes 
to  the  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
the reform of the Security Council the creation of an ad 
hoc group to help him create a workplan, a timeline for 
negotiations  and  the  modalities  by  which  agreements 
on given issues will be reflected in a text for approval 
and adoption by the General Assembly. 

Let  us  be  realistic. We  do  not  expect  to  have  an 
agreement  on  all  issues  all  at  once.  The  Philippines 
therefore  cannot  subscribe  to  the  view  that  nothing  is 
agreed  unless  everything 
is  agreed.  A  general 
agreement  on  Security  Council  reform  can  only  be 
achieved  step  by  step,  one  step  at  a  time.  Only  after 
gathering agreement on all points can we then agree on 
the totality. 

A  lot  of  work  remains  to  be  done  and  many 
obstacles still lie ahead of us, but that should inspire all 
of us to work even harder. We must keep our faith and 
enthusiasm  for  Security  Council  reform.  No  big 
achievement  is  ever  attained  if  it  is  not  fuelled  and 
sustained  by  enthusiasm  and  the  belief  that  success  is 
possible. 

Mr. President, we value your able and competent 
leadership,  and  we  thank  you  once  again  for  giving 
priority  to  Security  Council  reform  in  the Assembly’s 
agenda.  The  Philippines  stands  ready  to  support  you 
and Ambassador Tanin  and  to  play  a  constructive  role 
towards the attainment of our common goal, that is, to 
see  a  Security  Council  that  is  more  representative, 
accountable,  democratic,  transparent,  responsive  and 
efficient. 
Mr. Cuello Camilo (Dominican Republic) (spoke 

in  Spanish):  The  Dominican  Republic  is  grateful  to 
Ambassador  Sir  Mark  Lyall  Grant,  Permanent 
Representative of the United Kingdom and President of 
the  Security  Council  during  the  month  of  November, 
for  the  thorough  presentation  of  the  report  of  the 
Security  Council  (A/65/2)  before  the  Assembly.  We 
also greatly appreciate the sister delegation of Nigeria 
for its role in the preparation of the report. 

The Dominican Republic particularly appreciates 
the follow-up by the Security Council to the continuing 
difficult  situation  in  the  neighbouring  Republic  of 
Haiti.  We  are  particularly  grateful  for  its  swift  action 
after the tragic earthquake in Haiti on 12 January, when 
it  approved  an  increase  in  the  military  and  police 
contingent of the United Nations Stabilization Mission 
in Haiti.  
The Dominican Republic trusts that the Council’s 

follow-up on the situation in Haiti will lead, sooner or 
later,  to  strengthening  the  capacity  of  the  Haitian 
people themselves so they can assume the management 
of  their  own  destinies.  We  trust  there  will  be  a 
successful 
to 
peacebuilding, with secure institutions that solidify the 
rule  of  law  and  provide  a  basis  for  the  restoration  of 
the  confidence  of  all  in  a  future  of  prosperity  and 
social justice, generating jobs in Haiti for all Haitians. 

the 
Security  Council’s  presidential  statement  on  transition 
and  exit  strategies  (S/PRST/2010/2),  by  which  a  view 
was  adopted  of peacekeeping as a partner  with,  rather 
than  an  alternative  to,  political  strategies  on  the 
ground. 
that 

peacekeeping will have more clearly defined goals and 
a  specific  timetable  for  returning  to  territories  in 
conflict  conditions  allowing  them  to  live  in  peace, 
irreversibly  overcoming  the  causes  of  the  conflict  and 
thus making it possible to  dismantle the peacekeeping 
operation once the mission is accomplished. 

Despite  the  efforts  of  members  of  the  Security 
Council,  the  annual  report  continues  to  lack  an 
The  Dominican  Republic 
the  adoption  of 
We 
therefore  welcome 
thus 
trusts 
transition 
from 
peacekeeping 
2 

10-63467 


analytical  perspective,  with  detailed  information  on 
both  public  meetings  and  informal  consultations  that 
enables us to absorb with greater benefit its 223 pages, 
including  27  pages  of  introduction  on  the  Council’s 
work,  21  on  subsidiary  bodies,  and  186  containing 
nothing more than reference information on documents 
that  have  been  adopted,  considered  or  received. There 
is  a  lack  of  pointers  enabling  us  to  understand  why 
conflicts  that  are  key  for  international  peace  and 
security  —  for  example,  the  situation  in  the  Middle 
East — continue without resolution. 

However, the Dominican  Republic welcomes the 
efforts  of  Council  members  to  intensify  transparency 
and  responsibility  in  their  important  work.  In  that 
connection, we recognize the constructive nature of the 
note  approved  under  Japan’s  chairmanship  of  the 
Informal  Working  Group 
on  Documentation 
(S/2010/507),  which  will  undoubtedly  contribute  to 
improving the Council’s working methods and provide 
greater  possibilities  for  all  Member  States  to  better 
understand  the  work  of  the  Security  Council  and  to 
participate  in  issues  and  concerns  of  common  interest 
on its agenda. 

True improvement in the working methods of the 
Security Council can come about only if the Council is 
reformed.  We  therefore  rely  once  again  in  the  wise 
leadership  of  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  Permanent 
Representative of Afghanistan. 
a 

comprehensive 
the  Security  Council 
covering  the  five  key  issues  set  out  in  the  important 
General Assembly decision 62/557, namely: categories 
of  membership,  the  question  of  the  veto,  regional 
representation, the size of an expanded Council and its 
working  methods,  and  the  relationship  between  the 
Council and the General Assembly. 

As  the  position  of  the  Dominican  Republic  in 
relation to each of those issues is already known, I will 
take  this  opportunity  to  express  once  again  our 
conviction  regarding  the  imbalance  in  the  current 
membership  structure  of  the  Council.  New  countries 
must  have  the  opportunity  to  serve  on  the  Council. 
That  includes  small  island  developing  States,  which 
play  a  role  in  the  resolution  of  regional  political 
conflicts  and  in  the  promotion  of  joint  responses  to 
new  challenges  to  security  such  as  climate  change  or 
the  prevention  and  mitigation  of  and  response  to 
natural disasters. 
reform  of 
Dominican 
Republic 
The 
supports 
A/65/PV.49
Regions such as Africa and Latin America and the 

Caribbean,  moreover,  do  not  have 
the  kind  of 
participation in the Security Council that they deserve 
in  light  of  the  political  realities  of  the  twenty-first 
century.  That  is  why  the  Dominican  Republic  hopes 
that  the  recent  outcry  that  we  have  heard  for  an 
effective,  efficient,  credible  and  legitimate  Security 
Council will now be matched by the political will and 
the  commitment  of  the  Member  States  to  the  reform 
demanded by our times. 
Mrs. Kolontai (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): The 

Republic  of  Belarus  has  always  advocated  a 
constructive approach to the issue of Security Council 
reform, which we have repeated during the negotiation 
process.  We  believe  that  the  fundamental  goal  of 
Council  reform  should  be  to  further  enhance  its 
effectiveness. 

We  commend  the  activities  of  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Afghanistan  to  the  United  Nations, 
Ambassador  Tanin,  as  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations on Security Council reform. 

Belarus  is  keen  to  see  Security  Council  reform 
leading to a more balanced, more equitable distribution 
of  the  Council’s  power.  We  support  increasing  the 
number of Council members by giving additional seats 
to  all  regional  groups.  We  draw  attention  to  the 
underrepresentation  of  the  Eastern  European  Group 
among the non-permanent membership. We affirm our 
position  on  the  need  to  expand  the  representation  of 
that  group  of  countries  among  the  Council’s  non-
permanent members. 

On  the  issue  of  the  working  methods  of  the 
Security Council, we note the importance of involving 
in 
that  are  not 
members. Here, we welcome the practice established in 
recent  years  of  the  Council  holding  regular  briefings 
for such delegations. 

We  also  commend  the  regular  contacts  on  the 
exchange of information between the Presidents of the 
General  Assembly  and 
the  Security  Council  and 
sharing  information  on  those  contacts  with  Member 
States. 

Belarus  supports  involvement  of  non-Council 
Member  States  in  the  decision-making  process  in 
decisions  of 
them.  We  also  support 
expanding  the  practice  of  holding  open  meetings  and 
the  organization  of  close 
the 
the  Council’s  work  delegations 
interaction  among 
interest 
to 
10-63467 

3 
is 
in 
the  Council  updates  on 
The  Republic  of  Belarus 
the  General  Assembly  and 
A/65/PV.49 

sanctions  committees  with  States  that  are  subject  to 
sanctions. 

We  also  believe  that  the  Council  should  avoid 
expanding  its  agenda  to  include  issues  falling  within 
the  purview  of 
the 
Economic and Social Council. We believe that attempts 
to  bring  before 
the 
developments  of  the  internal  political  situations  of 
Member  States  that  are  not  linked  to  threats  to 
international peace and security do not have any legal 
grounds and undermine the Council’s reputation. 

favour  of 
preserving  and  strengthening  the  role  of  the  Security 
Council  as  the  main  element  of  the  system  for 
maintaining international peace and security. 
Mr.  Almansoor  (Bahrain)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

First  of  all,  I  would  like  to  sincerely  thank  His 
Excellency the Permanent Representative of the United 
Kingdom, Ambassador Sir Mark Lyall Grant, President 
of the Security Council for the month of November, for 
his  detailed  briefing  on  the  annual  report  of  the 
Security  Council  in  document  A/65/2,  which  we  are 
reviewing under Article 15, paragraph 1, of the United 
Nations Charter. 

My delegation fully endorses the statement by the 
Chairman  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  on  this  item 
(see A/65/PV.48). 

We  should  note  that  it  is  useful  for  the  General 
Assembly to study the two items on the agenda before 
us  together  —  the  report  of  the  Security  Council,  and 
the question of equitable representation on and increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and related 
matters — due to their close links. Doing so allows us 
to do a meaningful evaluation of the Council’s work in 
a relevant manner through an assessment that has been 
arrived at over the years, given the importance that this 
issue holds for Member States. 

It goes without saying that despite the importance 
of the review of the Council’s annual report in itself, it 
is  in  the  General  Assembly  an  important  opportunity 
for  Member  States  to  make  observations  on  the 
Council’s  valuable  work  during  the  period  covered  by 
the  report,  given  that  the  Council  is  the  principal 
United  Nations  body  vested  by  the  Charter  with  the 
primary  responsibility  for  maintaining  international 
peace  and  security.  In  our  view,  the  review  of  the 
report, important as it is, can be truly significant only if 

the 
the  expectations  of 
I wish to make a number of observations that we 
we  consider  the  report’s  preparation  and  substance, 
which clearly details the working methods and manner 
in which the Council addresses the issues before it. 

believe are necessary. 

The  preparation  and  discussion  of  the  report,  an 
annual  practice,  is  an  opportunity  for  Member  States’ 
comments  and  observations  on  the  activities  and 
decisions of the Security Council. They concern us all, 
because  Member  States,  as  we  have  seen  in  recent 
years,  believe  that  this  annual  debate  could  be  much 
more  useful  if  the  report  contained  more  analytical, 
detailed  information  that  would  allow  Member  States 
to keep up with the deliberations that have taken place 
in  the  Council,  with  a  view  to  arriving  at  better 
decisions. That could be facilitated by the provision of 
more  information  on  the  Council’s  work  and  by 
holding more open meetings and briefings, while at the 
same  time  limiting  the  number  of  closed  consultation 
meetings. 
Important and vital as the Council’s work is, and 

great  as 
international 
community  and  Member  States  are  in  terms  of  its 
performance — which we must all bear in mind — for 
its part, the Council must make more sustained efforts 
to address the serious issues that undermine stability so 
that  peace  and  harmony  based  on  considerations  that 
interest  the  international  community  and  that  stem 
from  the  Council  and  the  resolutions  it  adopts  can 
reign. It is also important to explain the circumstances 
under  which  the  Council  is  sometimes  unable  to  find 
the right solution to certain important issues before it, 
so  that  Member  States  can  identify  weak  points  and 
shortcomings  and  propose  appropriate  solutions  for 
such issues. 

My delegation highly appreciates the work of the 
Council  and  the  missions  that  its  members  carry  out. 
We  realize  the  scope  of  the  responsibility  it  assumes 
vis-à-vis the increasing number of issues on its agenda, 
since 
for  maintaining 
international peace and security rests with the Council, 
and that things must remain that way, as envisaged by 
the  Charter.  However,  that  responsibility  should  be 
shouldered in the most effective way possible in order 
to ensure appropriate solutions to the issues. 

We  can  say  that  the  Security  Council  has  shown 
great responsibility and addressed many questions with 
great  seriousness.  My  delegation  thus  welcomes  the 
responsibility 
primary 
4 

10-63467 
to  extremely 


attention  it  has  paid  to  Africa,  the  scene  of  many 
conflicts which the Council has tackled positively and 
attentively. The same goes for many other international 
issues, which leads us to say how much we appreciate 
the Council’s activities. 
Nonetheless,  the  Council  has  not  been  able  to 

find  appropriate  solutions 
important 
issues, such as the Palestinian cause, which to this day 
does  not  receive  the  attention  and  seriousness  it 
deserves. The fact is that the States that are involved in 
that  debate  on  the  Council,  particularly  those  that  are 
fundamental  stakeholders  in  all  issues  concerning 
them,  could  be  useful  and  fruitful  if  that  approach  is 
adopted  in  an  effective  manner.  It  could  help  us  find 
rapid solutions that all Member States would like, since 
we  are all striving for the  same goal, which is to  find 
settlements  to  international  conflicts  that  require  the 
international  community’s  attention.  We 
therefore 
the  General 
should  strengthen  relations  between 
Assembly  and 
that,  as 
the  Security  Council  so 
stipulated  by 
the  Charter,  responsibility  can  be 
assumed  properly.  That  can  help  consolidate  the 
founding principles of the United Nations. 

Intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security 
Council  reform  had  a  successful  beginning  during  the 
Assembly’s  sixty-third  session,  in  step  with Assembly 
decision 62/557. The membership has since welcomed 
those  developments,  based  on 
their  profound 
conviction  of  the  importance  and  urgency  of  reform, 
because  the  Security  Council  does  not  reflect  current 
geopolitical  realities.  As  a  result,  there  is  a  need  to 
improve representation in order to allow the Council to 
fully discharge its mandate effectively. 

Ongoing  intergovernmental  negotiations  must  be 
based on transparency and realism, in order to arrive at 
feasible  proposals  on  the  basis  of  a  broad  political 
agreement among Member States. In order to meet the 
demands  of  world  leaders  during  the  2005  World 
Summit with regard to the importance of early Security 
Council  reform,  that  reform  must  be  comprehensive, 
balanced,  transparent  and  cohesive  and  must  be  based 
on equitable and balanced geographic representation. 

Moreover,  we  need  to  increase  the  number  of 
Security  Council  members  and  improve  its  working 
methods.  The  Council’s  agenda  must  reflect 
the 
aspirations  and  needs  of  both  developed  and 
developing  countries.  There  is  also  a  need  to  grant  a 
seat  to  the  League  of  Arab  States,  which  could  be 
A/65/PV.49
should 
of  Council  members 
occupied sequentially by its members, as is the practice 
within the League. 

It is also important that the respective powers of 
the main bodies of the United Nations be respected so 
that  they  will  not  be  encroached  on.  The  Security 
Council  has  primary  responsibility  for  issues  that 
threaten  international  peace  and  security,  in  keeping 
with  the  Charter.  Relations  between  the  Council  and 
the General Assembly, which represents the legislative 
authority of the Organization, must be characterized by 
a spirit of partnership and a sense of responsibility. 

We  would  like  to  reaffirm  the  importance  of 
refraining from recourse to Chapter VII of the Charter 
of the United Nations. That Chapter should be invoked 
only  as  a  last  resort,  after  all  diplomatic  solutions 
provided  for  by  Chapters  VI  and  VIII  of  the  Charter 
have been exhausted. 

The right of veto must also be restricted, as it is 
an  obstacle  to  taking  vital  decisions  on  which  a 
majority 
agree. 
Furthermore,  the  Council’s  rules  of  procedure  should 
be  made  official,  because  we  cannot  accept  that  they 
remain merely provisional more than 65 years after the 
creation  of  the  United  Nations.  Moreover,  it  is  utterly 
unjustified. 

The  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  attaches  particular 
importance to this issue. It urges the Security Council 
to  take  into  account  the  interests  and  concerns  of 
Member  States  and  to  faithfully  reflect  geopolitical 
realities.  It  also  encourages  all  Member  States  to 
participate  in  innovative  and  creative  solutions  to 
complex  international  issues  that  affect  their  stability 
and  security. We  also  hope  that  the  reformed  Security 
Council  will  be  able  to  reflect  the  aspirations  of  all 
peoples. 
Mrs. Miculescu (Romania): At the outset, let me 

express  my  warm  appreciation  to  Ambassador  Joy 
Ogwu for her hard work in preparing the annual report 
of  the  Security  Council  to  the  General  Assembly 
(A/65/2).  I  would  also  like  to  thank  Ambassador  Sir 
Mark Lyall Grant for introducing the document, as well 
as  all  the  Security  Council  members  for  their  intense 
activity  during  the  reporting  period.  It  really  is 
commendable  that  the  initiative  to  have  an  informal 
meeting  with  the  Member  States  in  order  to  exchange 
views on the report materialized for the third year in a 
row. It has thus turned into a very useful tradition. 
10-63467 

5 

the  conceptual 
troop-contributing  States.  The 
level, 
A/65/PV.49 


Romania  welcomes  the  continuing  trend  towards 
greater  openness  and  transparency  in  the  Security 
Council’s  work. That  is  made  possible  by  multiplying 
the  number  of  open  debates,  briefings  and  meetings 
trend  was 
with 
reinforced,  at 
through 
the 
adoption of revised presidential note 507 (S/2010/507), 
the interaction between members and non-members of 
the  Security  Council,  and  the  regular  dialogues  held 
between  the  Presidents  of  the  General  Assembly  and 
the Security Council. 

We  praise  the  Security  Council’s  efforts  to 
increase  openness  and  transparency,  for  they  provide 
all Member States with the opportunity to make a more 
significant  contribution  to  matters  at  the  heart  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations, such as the maintenance 
of international peace and security. 

The  report  before  us  mirrors  the  wide  range  of 
actions  undertaken  by  the  Council  on  our  behalf, 
revealing that during the reporting period there were a 
significant  number  of  issues  that  the  Council  had  to 
deal  with  as  efficiently  as  possible.  In  our  view,  the 
largest  number  of  those  activities  were  geared,  quite 
correctly, 
the  most 
challenging  situations  around  the  world,  such  as  in 
Afghanistan,  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
Haiti, Iraq, the Sudan — including Darfur — or Timor-
Leste, to mention just a few. 

At the same time, we have to recall that there are 
instances, such as the situation in Georgia, that should 
not be allowed to drop off the Security Council’s radar, 
as  they  may  have  a  critical  impact  on  regional  and 
international peace and security. 

Romania also takes keen interest in the Council’s 
substantial work and the considerable attention paid to 
thematic  debates  of  comprehensive  relevance.  Those 
include nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation, the 
illicit trade in small arms and light weapons in Central 
Africa, peacebuilding and peacekeeping, the protection 
of civilians in armed conflicts, and, of course, women 
and peace and security. 

We the peoples of the United Nations agreed that 
the Council acts on behalf of the entire United Nations 
membership for the maintenance of international peace 
and  security.  While  some  would  claim  that  the  report 
does  not  provide  a  comprehensive  picture,  many 
countries,  including  my  own,  deem  that  the  document 
from  mere  statistical 
could  and  should  depart 
to  bringing 
resolution 
to 
as 
the 
through 
five 
facilitator  of 
Let me now turn to the second item on the agenda 
information  and  develop  an  even  more  analytical 
assessment,  thus  providing  a  reflective  profile  of  the 
Council’s activities. 

today, which is the reform of the Security Council. 

I would like to express to you, Mr. President, my 
delegation’s  appreciation  for  the  inclusion  of  Security 
Council  reform  among  your  priorities  as  President  of 
the  General  Assembly.  In  addition,  my  delegation 
welcomes  the  reappointment  of  Ambassador  Zahir 
Tanin 
intergovernmental 
negotiations.  His  elegant  mastery,  resolution  and 
perseverance  guided  us 
rounds  of 
negotiations,  and  for  the  first  time  in  18  years  of 
debates  on  Security  Council  reform,  we  are  in  a 
position  to  negotiate  on  the  basis  of  a  comprehensive 
document. We are looking forward to starting the sixth 
round  of  negotiations  as  soon  as  possible,  as  that 
document  needs  to  be  streamlined  and  trimmed  of 
redundancies. 

Romania  acknowledges  the  special  contribution 
made  by  the  members  of  the  Security  Council.  We 
strongly believe that it is of utmost importance for all 
Member States of the United Nations with the capacity 
to  serve  on  the  Council  to  be  provided  with  the 
opportunity 
the 
enlargement  of  the  Council  is  a  real  must  that  should 
be  given  careful  and  swift  consideration  in  order  to 
ensure that that main body of the United Nations better 
reflects 
current 
international stage. 

As  my  delegation  has  stated  time  and  again,  we 
will  be  able  to  build  a  solid  political  foundation  for 
reforming  the  Security  Council  if,  and  only  if,  both 
categories  of  membership  are  expanded.  At  the  same 
time,  for  enlargement 
is  of  critical 
importance  that  none  feel  excluded  and  that  the 
principle  of  equitable  geographic 
representation 
prevails.  In  that  vein,  Romania  supports  the  requests 
for  better 
the  Eastern 
European, Latin American and Caribbean, African and 
Asian Groups of States. 
the  number  of  Security  Council 

members  is  just  one  side  of  the  coin;  improving  its 
working  methods  is  the  flip  side.  Both  are  of  equal 
relevance  in  order  to  make  that  United  Nations  body 
more transparent, inclusive, accountable and effective. 
And  while  a  higher  number  of  seats  would  allow  a 
to  do  so.  Hence,  we  feel 
representation  voiced  by 
the  political 
realities  of 
to  work, 
it 
that 
the 
Expanding 
6 

10-63467 
The 
during 
delegations 
concerning 
of  many 
discussion  we 
had 
indicated 


more  frequent,  yet  still  time-limited,  presence  on  the 
Council  for  the  rotating  members,  by  improving 
working  methods  we  could  make  sure  that  all  States 
eligible for non-permanent membership have access to 
the Council’s activities at practically any time. 

the 
intergovernmental  negotiations 
the  clear 
interest 
an 
intermediate  formula.  My  delegation  believes  that  we 
should  continue  to  explore  the  merits  of  such  an 
option,  if  that  formula  could  be  of  help  in  furthering 
the reform. 

In conclusion, let me express my conviction that 
it would be a tremendous loss if the energy invested by 
the vast majority of Member States during the previous 
five  rounds  of  negotiations  has  been  invested  in  vain. 
Let  us  hope  that  the  next  round  of  negotiations  will 
provide  a  decisive  boost 
to  Security  Council 
enlargement. And  of  course  I  want  to  assure  you,  Mr. 
President, that you and Ambassador Tanin can certainly 
count  on  Romania’s  unwavering  support  in  pushing 
forward the Security Council reform process. 
Mr.  Parham  (United  Kingdom):  The  United 

Kingdom  has  already  made  a  statement  on  the  annual 
report of the  Security Council (A/65/2)  in its capacity 
as  President  of  the  Security  Council  for  the  month  of 
November.  The  Assembly  will  have  heard  in  that 
statement  that  we  have  tried  to  move  away  from  a 
standard  reiteration  of  the  Council’s  annual  report. 
Instead,  we  have  used  this  opportunity  to  assess 
honestly the Council’s work and to look ahead to some 
of  the  issues  on  its  agenda.  In  that  way,  we  hope  that 
the debate can reflect more on the Council’s work and 
less on the drafting of the report itself. So I would like 
to thank others for their comments today in response to 
the statement and the acknowledgement that efforts are 
being made to improve the Council’s work. We should 
aim to have a genuine debate about the Council’s work 
and  move  away  from  a  fixation  with  the  report  itself. 
For  all  its  faults,  it  is  purely  a  tool  that  records  the 
work of the Council from August to July. 

Turning  now  to  the  issue  of  Security  Council 
reform, I am pleased to reiterate the United Kingdom’s 
ongoing  commitment  to  reform.  During  the  month  of 
November, we are using our presidency to bring some 
small  innovations  to  the  Security  Council’s  working 
methods. 
of 
videoconferencing  and  more  interactive  consultations 
greater 
use 
Those 
include 
A/65/PV.49
On 
within  the  Council.  For  example,  this  morning  I 
chaired a meeting of the Council with troop and police 
contributors  to  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  the 
Sudan, at which we were joined by videoconference by 
the  Special  Representative  of  the  Secretary-General, 
the  Force  Commander  and  many  other  members  of 
their team both in Juba and in Khartoum, as well as the 
Secretariat here in New York. That gave rise to a much 
more  interactive,  valuable  and  productive  discussion 
than those meetings have often produced in the past. 

to 
the  Council’s  structure,  we  continue 
support  permanent  membership  for  Brazil,  Germany, 
India  and  Japan,  as  well  as  permanent  representation 
for Africa. We  look  forward  to  working  with  many  of 
those  countries  next  year  when  they  join  the  Security 
Council. 

Since  intergovernmental  negotiations  began  in 
February  2009,  the  collective  desire  to  move  the 
process  of  Council  reform  forward  has  been  clear. 
While  progress  may  not  have  been  as  fast  as  some 
might  wish,  under  Ambassador  Tanin’s 
skilful 
chairmanship  there  has  been  concrete  progress.  The 
compilation paper sets out the positions and proposals 
of  Member  States.  As 
the  negotiation  process 
continues,  we  remain  ready  to  work  with Ambassador 
Tanin  and  others  here  today  to  determine  how  the 
compilation  paper  can  best  be  used  to  deliver  real 
progress.  As  ever,  the  responsibility  for  that  progress 
remains  with  Member  States.  We  therefore  hope  that 
all will rally behind Ambassador Tanin. 

In  addition,  the  United  Kingdom  continues  to 
advocate  consideration  of  alternative  options.  An 
intermediate  model  could  provide  for  a  new  category 
of  seats  with  a  longer  mandate  than  that  of  members 
currently  elected.  On  completion  of  the  intermediate 
period,  a  review  should  take  place  to  convert  the  new 
seats into permanent ones. 

Some  have  asked  what  the  details  of  that  model 
are. We expect that the actual modalities, including the 
duration and the number of seats, will emerge through 
the  course  of  the  negotiations.  We  hope  that  further 
discussions  on  the  various  intermediate  models  will 
take place as the negotiations continue. 
Ms. Ochir (Mongolia): At the outset, I would like 

to 
the  Security  Council, 
Ambassador  Sir  Mark  Lyall  Grant,  for  presenting  the 
report  of  the  Security  Council,  contained  in  document 
A/65/2. Mongolia commends the Council for its critical 
the  President  of 
thank 
10-63467 

7 

including 
in  discharging 
A/65/PV.49 

work 
its  function  of  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security.  Over  the  reporting 
period, the Security Council has delivered quite a few 
momentous  decisions, 
resolution  1887 
(2009),  adopted  at  its  summit  meeting  in  September 
2009  on  the  issue  of  nuclear  non-proliferation  and 
nuclear  disarmament.  We  also  welcome  the  increased 
frequency  of  open  debates  in  the  Council  on  matters 
pertaining  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and security. 

The  efforts  made  by  the  Security  Council  to 
improve  its  cooperation  with  the  Secretariat  and  the 
troop-contributing countries, and particularly the work 
of  its  Working  Group  on  Peacekeeping  Operations, 
have helped to promote both cross-cutting and mission-
specific issues, increase the common understanding of 
policy  issues,  and  address  the  existing  gaps  between 
mandates  and  their  implementation  on  the  ground. 
While  recognizing  those  positive  developments,  we 
wish  to  emphasize  that  there  is  still  room  for  the 
further enhancement of the Council’s work in that area, 
including  through  providing  all  available  political 
support  to  peacekeeping  operations  and  ensuring  the 
active  participation  of  all  stakeholders  in  setting 
achievable mandates. 

My  delegation  has  also  taken  note  of  certain 
measures  aimed  at  improving  the  working  methods  of 
the  Security  Council  since  the  last  report  (A/64/2).  In 
that  respect,  we  welcome  the  open  debate  held  in  the 
Council on 22 April 2010 (see S/PV.6300) on the issue 
of  improving  its  working  methods,  including  in  the 
area of documentation and other procedural questions. 
While  expressing  our  appreciation  of  the  efforts  to 
enhance  the  access  of  non-Council  Member  States  to 
the work of the Council, my delegation calls for fuller 
implementation  of 
revised  presidential  note 
(S/2010/507). 

While the activities of the Security Council were 
indeed  extensive  during  the  reporting  period,  as  in 
previous  years  its  annual  report  lacks  a  substantive 
analysis  of  those  activities  and  their  impact.  The 
provision  of  an  analytical  annual  report  is  essentially 
one  of 
larger 
membership of the Organization. 

As  for  the  question  of  Security  Council  reform, 
since the adoption of the historic decision 62/557, five 
rounds  of  intergovernmental  negotiations  have  taken 
place in the informal plenary of the General Assembly 
the  Council’s  obligations 
the 
the 
to 
the 
of 
the 
next 
round 
number 
As  we 
approach 
permanent 
under  the  skilful  stewardship  of  Ambassador  Tanin, 
whom  we  sincerely  congratulate  on  his 
recent 
reappointment.  We  had  the  opportunity  to  listen  to 
Member States reiterating their principled positions, as 
well as some new proposals, on the five key issues of 
comprehensive reform of the Security Council. 

of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  at  this  session  of  the 
General  Assembly,  my  delegation  wishes  to  strongly 
echo the position expressed by many previous speakers 
that, in order to move the  process forward, we need a 
short,  manageable  text  in  order  to  engage  in  genuine 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform.  We  remain 
hopeful that the Chair will produce such a text prior to 
the next round. 

Mongolia’s  stance  on  Security  Council  reform  is 
well known. We have consistently stood for a just and 
equitable  enlargement  of  the  Security  Council  by 
increasing 
and 
non-permanent members alike, while ensuring the due 
representation  of  developing  and  developed  countries. 
Here,  Mongolia  wishes  to  reiterate  its  support  for 
Japan,  Germany  and  India  as  permanent  members, 
along  with  the  equitable  representation  of  Africa  and 
the Group of Latin American and Caribbean States in a 
reformed Security Council. 

Our  stance  on  the  enlargement  of  both  current 
categories  is  guided  by  and  based  on  the  legitimate 
composition  defined  by  the  Charter  and  the  political 
realities  of  today’s  world,  as  well  as  the  principles  of 
justice  and  equality,  so  as  to  ensure  greater  and 
enhanced 
representation  of  developing  countries, 
particularly  the  unrepresented  and  underrepresented 
regional groups. 
Our position is also clear on what has been called 

an  intermediate  model.  Inasmuch  as  it  entails  the 
creation  of  a  third  tier  of  Council  members,  my 
delegation finds it difficult to support. 
We  are  in  favour  of  restricted  use  of  the  veto 

power in the Security Council, in particular with regard 
to  Chapter  VII-based  decisions,  and  we  support  its 
eventual  abolition. As  long  as  the  veto  right  exists,  it 
has  to  be  extended  to  the  new  permanent  members  so 
as  not  to  create  a  new  category  of  membership  of  the 
Security  Council.  In  that  regard,  we  also  support  the 
clearly  expressed  position  of  aspirants  to  have  a 
voluntary  moratorium  on  the  use  of  the  veto  until  the 
proposed Security Council review conference. 
8 

10-63467 



We  strongly  believe  that,  in  order  to  make  the 
necessary breakthrough in the reform process, we need 
primarily  to  take  a  decision  on  the  categories  of 
Security Council enlargement. In that respect, we share 
the  view  that  the  overwhelming  majority  of  Member 
States  have  expressed,  in  no  uncertain  terms,  their 
preference  for  increasing  the  membership  of  the 
Security  Council  in  both  current  categories,  and  we 
expect that reality to be reflected in a negotiating text. 

Finally,  Mr.  President,  I  would  like  to  welcome 
your decision to make Security Council reform one of 
your priorities, and to express my delegation’s sincere 
hope  that,  with  your  strong  leadership,  the  General 
Assembly  will  make  meaningful  progress  at  this 
session  towards  a  timely  reform  of  the  Security 
Council, as mandated to us all by world leaders at the 
2005 World Summit. 
Mr.  Osorio  (Colombia)  (spoke in Spanish): As  I 

am addressing the General Assembly for the first time 
as Permanent Representative of Colombia, I offer you, 
Mr. President, and all the States Members of the United 
Nations  my  warmest  wishes  and  the  renewed  and 
ongoing commitment of my country to contributing to 
and  participating  actively  in  the  noble  cause  of  this 
Organization. 

is  of  particular 
relevance to Colombia because of our recent election to 
a seat on the Security Council for the next two years. I 
take  this  opportunity  to  express  our  gratitude  for  the 
vote  and  confidence  vested  in  us  by  186  Member 
States. 
In  thanking  the  current  President  of  the  Security 

Council, 
Permanent 
Representative of the United Kingdom, for introducing 
the  Council’s  report  (A/65/2),  I  would  like  to  express 
some observations about Security Council reform. 

There is undeniably a heartfelt need for Member 
States to update the composition and working methods 
of the Council in order to  ensure better  representation 
and  more  transparency.  At  the  sixty-fourth  session  of 
the General Assembly, some progress was made and it 
was  possible  to  discern  new  modalities  for  reform  of 
the Security Council and the aspirations of the various 
regional  groups  and  Member  States  in  general.  Our 
gratitude goes to Ambassador Ali Abdussalam Treki for 
his  skilful  conduct  of  that  process  as  President  of  the 
Assembly, and to Ambassador Zahir Tanin, the chair of 
the informal intergovernmental negotiations. 
Sir  Mark  Lyall  Grant, 
The  subject  of 
this  debate 
A/65/PV.49
that  expansion 
transparency  of 
to  define  and  reconcile 

From  our  viewpoint,  the  objective  of  bringing 
greater  democracy  to  the  Security  Council  will  be 
achieved  by  extending  the  category  of  non-permanent 
membership.  If 
is  based  on  fair 
geographical  representation,  with  clearly  regulated 
rotation,  it  will  be  possible  to  strengthen  the  political 
legitimacy  of  that  organ.  It  will  also  ensure  the 
efficiency  and  efficacy  of  its  working  methods  and 
communications. We believe that such a balance can be 
attained with a total membership of roughly 25. 

Regarding  the  veto  and  its  use  in  the  Security 
Council,  a  clear  framework  of  reference  must  be 
established to restrict its use exclusively to exceptional 
circumstances.  The 
the  Council’s 
working  methods  can  be  guaranteed  by  improving 
access to information, holding more open meetings and 
enhancing  communication  channels  between 
the 
Council and all the other Members. 

Italy  and  Colombia,  speaking  for  the  United  for 
Consensus  group,  presented  a  reform  model  last  year 
that  seeks 
the  various 
approaches  and  to  lay  the  foundations  for  a  more 
representative,  more  democratic,  more  effective  and 
more  transparent  Security  Council.  The  document 
contains  specific  proposals 
first, 
categories,  terms  and  mandates  of  new  members; 
secondly,  the  necessary  majorities  for  the  taking  of 
decisions  and  the  use  of  the  veto;  thirdly,  working 
methods  and  procedures;  fourthly,  the  relationship 
between 
the  General 
Assembly;  and  fifthly,  a  mechanism  for  the  review  of 
the  reform.  Those  are  the  areas  on  which  we  must 
focus our efforts and put our ability to compromise and 
innovate  to  the  test.  As  a  member  of  the  Security 
Council,  Colombia  will  be  in  the  vanguard  of  those 
efforts. 
Mr. Kalita (India): I am honoured to address the 

General  Assembly  on  behalf  of  my  country  on  the 
report  of  the  Security  Council  (A/65/2)  and  the 
question of equitable representation on and increase in 
the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters. 

We  thank  the  delegation  of  the  United  Kingdom 
for  introducing  the  annual  report  of  the  Security 
Council for the period 1 August 2009 to 31 July 2010. 
We would  also like to thank the delegation of Nigeria 
for  its  efforts  in  preparing  the  introductory  section  of 
the report. My delegation would like to place on record 
the  Security  Council  and 
in 
five  areas: 
10-63467 

9 

A/65/PV.49 

our  appreciation  to  the  delegation  of  Uganda  for 
convening an informal meeting with Member States on 
21 October for the preparation of the report. 

At the outset, let me state that we align ourselves 
with  the  statement  to  be  made  by  the  Permanent 
Representative of Jamaica on behalf of the L.69 group 
on Security Council reform. 

In our view, the report of the Security Council is 
an important means for facilitating interaction between 
the  members  of  the  most  representative  organ  of  the 
United Nations and its most empowered brethren. The 
United  Nations  Charter  itself  bestows  on  the  report  a 
profound gravitas, as is evident from the fact that it has 
a  separate  provision  mandating  such  a  report,  rather 
than  including  it  with  the  provision  for  reports  from 
other United Nations bodies. It is therefore imperative 
that  the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  inform, 
highlight and analyse the measures that it has decided 
upon  or  taken  to  maintain  international  peace  and 
security during the reporting period. 

The  membership  of  the  General  Assembly  has 
repeatedly requested that the report be more analytical 
and incisive, rather than a mere narration of events. It 
is  important  that  the  General  Assembly  be  aware  not 
only  of  what  decisions  were  taken  but  also  of  the 
rationale,  efficacy  and 
the  Council’s 
decisions,  in  terms  of  crystallised  takeaways  for  the 
membership of the General Assembly. 

At  the  same  time,  however,  let  us  give  credit 
where  it  is  due.  I  refer  in  particular  to  resolution 
64/301  on  the  revitalization  of  the  work  of  the 
Assembly.  Operative  paragraph  9  of  that  resolution 
refers to the improvements that have been made in the 
quality  of  the  annual  reports  of  the  Security  Council 
and  encourages 
further 
improvements as necessary. Like other delegations, we 
are also of the view that while we may have covered a 
few yards, we still have miles ahead of us. 
The  United  Nations  membership  must  recognize 

that the lacunae in the report are a manifestation of the 
underlying problems of the representation and working 
methods of the Council, which remain opaque and non-
inclusive.  The  report,  this  year  too,  continues  to  be  a 
statistical  compilation  of  events  —  a  bland  summary 
and listing of meetings and outcome documents. 

There is no other option but to recognize that the 
real  solution  not  only  for  a  more  credible,  legitimate 
the  Council 
impact  of 
to  make 
in 
as 
the 
chair  of 
and  representative  Council,  but  even  for  a  more 
thorough report lies in the comprehensive reform of the 
Council, including an expansion in both the permanent 
and  non-permanent  categories  of  membership,  and  its 
working  methods.  In  this  context,  it  is  important  to 
note that an overwhelming majority of Member States 
have  clearly  expressed  their  preference  for  such  a 
reform  during  the  five  rounds  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations  held  so  far  on  the  issue  of  reform  of  the 
Council. 

Mr.  Al-Jarman  (United  Arab  Emirates),  Vice-
President, took the Chair. 

We are enthused by the fact that the President of 
the  General  Assembly  has  undertaken  a  number  of 
quick  and  commendable  steps,  thereby  ensuring  that 
the Assembly  remains  faithful  to  the  central  directive 
of  its  decision  64/568  of  13  September  2010  to 
immediately  continue  intergovernmental  negotiations 
on  Security  Council  reform 
informal  plenary 
meetings  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth 
session. At the earliest instance — on 1 October, to be 
precise — the President reappointed Ambassador Zahir 
Tanin 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Council  reforms.  On  21  October,  he 
convened  a  meeting  of  the  entire  United  Nations 
membership on this important issue. 

My  delegation  welcomes  these  steps,  which 
reflect  the  resolve  of  the  vast  majority  of  the  United 
Nations  membership  to  achieve  early  reform.  These 
actions,  we  hope,  bode  well  for  the  process.  There 
exists sufficient basis for optimism that, by the end of 
the current session of the General Assembly, we will be 
able  to  achieve  concrete  results  on  Security  Council 
reform under his stewardship and guidance. 
We are equally happy that, with each passing day, 

countries  and  leaders  around  the  world  are  publicly 
articulating  their  support  for  India’s  candidature  as  a 
new  permanent  member  of  an  expanded  Security 
Council.  Most  recently,  India  received  affirmation  of 
support  from  the  President  of  the  United  States, 
Mr. Barack  Obama.  The  Indian  delegation  takes  this 
opportunity  to  thank  the  United  States  for  this  kind 
gesture.  We  also  call  on  other  nations  to  extend  their 
valuable support to us. 
We  also  hope  that  the  Secretary-General  will 

complement 
the  initiative  and  enthusiasm  of  the 
Assembly  President  in  the  context  of  Council  reform. 
This issue without a doubt will acquire salience in the 
the 
10 

10-63467 


coming  year  as  the  Secretary-General  prepares  for  his 
second term. 

Both in our individual capacity and as a member 
of  two  groupings  devoted  to  early  reform  of  the 
Council  —  the  Group  of  Four  (G-4)  and  the  L.69 
group —  India  would  like  to  highlight  certain  salient 
features  of  the  various  proposals  and  positions  as 
captured in the negotiation text. 
First,  the  overwhelming  majority  of  Member 

States  have  expressed 
their  clear  preference  for 
expansion  of  the  Council  in  both  its  permanent  and 
non-permanent categories. 

Secondly,  on  the  size  of  the  Council,  there  is 
convergence  on  the  need  for  expansion  from  the 
current  15  to  a  figure  in  the  mid-twenties. Also,  most 
of  the  positions  have  called  for  a  mandatory  review 
after a period ranging from eight to 15 years.  

Thirdly,  the  G-4  position  on  the  question  of  the 
veto  is  unambiguous  and  constructive.  We  stress  the 
need  for  an  outcome  that  ensures  the  democratization 
of decision-making within the Council. India is willing 
to engage with all concerned with an open mind on this 
key issue. 

Fourthly, India associates itself with the growing 
clamour for the early reform of the working methods of 
the Council. 

Fifthly,  on  the  issue  of  regional  representation, 
we  lay  great  store  by  the  principle  of  equitable 
geographical  distribution.  India  supports  a  Charter-
based  distribution  of  seats  that  addresses  the  lack  of 
representation  of  African,  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean 
adequate 
representation  of  Asian  countries  in  the  permanent 
membership; and the lack of adequate representation of 
developing  countries, 
least  developed 
countries, landlocked countries and small island States, 
in the non-permanent membership. 
Finally, India calls for the General Assembly and 

the  Security  Council,  as  two  principal  organs  of  the 
United Nations, to respect each other’s distinct roles, in 
accordance with the relevant provisions of the Charter, 
so as to secure the effective functioning of the United 
Nations as a whole. 

In  conclusion,  we  are  both  ready  and  willing  to 
reach  out  to  other  countries  and  to  work  in  close 
cooperation  with  them  towards  the  goal  of  achieving 
countries; 
including 
lack 
the 
of 
A/65/PV.49
the 
to 
thank 
text  and 
the  negotiation 
the  President  of 
urgent  reform  of  the  Council,  in  keeping  with  the 
changing  realities  of  the  current  times.  We  need  to 
shorten 
then  proceed 
wholeheartedly into real negotiations. This is the view 
of  the  overwhelming  majority  of  the  United  Nations 
membership,  besides  being  the  only  logical  course  of 
action for anyone even remotely committed to reform. 

Let me assure the President of the Assembly and 
the  rest  of  the  United  Nations  membership  of  our 
willingness  to  remain  constructive  and  reasonably 
flexible  on  all  issues  on  the  table  in  the  months  to 
come, and urge other delegations to do likewise. 
Mr.  Heller  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish): At  the 

outset,  allow  me 
the 
Assembly for having organized this joint debate, which 
provides Member States with an opportunity to address 
both  the  content  of  the  annual  report  of  the  Security 
Council (A/65/2), of which Mexico has been an elected 
member  since  2009,  and  the  reform  of  the  Council,  a 
matter 
to  which  my  country  attaches  particular 
importance. I would also like to thank the President of 
the Security Council, the Permanent Representative of 
the  United  Kingdom,  for  having  presented  the  annual 
report of the Security Council to the General Assembly. 

Allow  me  to  start  by  addressing  the  question  of 
the reform of the Security Council. I will not reiterate 
here  Mexico’s  position  on  each  of 
issues 
concerning reform, as it is already well known and we 
have  referred  to  it  frequently  during  the  negotiations 
process.  Rather,  I  will  confine  myself  to  commenting 
on the negotiating process and the prospects for future 
rounds. 

Since  the  adoption  of  decision  62/557  and  the 
start  of  intergovernmental  negotiations,  the  reform  of 
the  Security  Council  has 
assumed  particular 
significance.  We  have  participated  in  five  negotiating 
rounds and have heard proposals from Member States, 
some  of  which  are  novel  and  others  better  known. 
These have been compiled into the document submitted 
by  Ambassador  Tanin,  whom  we  congratulate  on  his 
work  as  facilitator  of  this  process.  It  is  now  up  to 
Member  States,  using  that  document  as  a  basis,  to 
display 
to  achieve 
significant  progress  towards  a  comprehensive  reform 
of  the  Security  Council  with  the  broadest  possible 
support of Member States. 

all  seriousness.  We  have  displayed 
Mexico has always been prepared to negotiate in 
in  our 
the  necessary  political  will 
this 
10-63467 

11 

the 
A/65/PV.49 

flexibility  in  considering  alternatives  and  innovative 
proposals and in our desire to continue to improve the 
document of the facilitator. But we cannot negotiate on 
our  own.  It  is  surprising  that  to  date  more  States  or 
groups  have  not  been  willing  to  negotiate,  but  rather 
prefer to maintain their original positions. 

Also surprising are unilateral pronouncements by 
States  claiming  the  exclusive  right  to  determine  the 
composition  of  the  Security  Council,  flouting  the  will 
of  the  General Assembly  and  prejudicing  the  result  of 
the  reform  process.  Recent  statements  of  this  type 
hamper  the  negotiating  atmosphere  and  exacerbate 
divisions among the various regional groups. 

Security Council reform cannot be imposed by a 
small  number  of  States  or  decided  upon  in  alternative 
forums. It must be the outcome of the broadest possible 
agreement  of  Member  States.  We  must  aim  not  at 
distributing  more  privileges  to  a  few,  but  rather  at 
improving 
representativeness, 
efficiency, 
transparency  and  accountability  of 
the  Security 
Council.  Hence,  Mexico  does  not  support  expanding 
the  category  of  permanent  membership,  which  would 
restrict access to the Security Council and its ability to 
adapt to the changing realities of the world. 

We can continue to improve and further refine the 
facilitator’s  document  in  forthcoming  rounds,  but 
comprehensive reform will be achieved only if we have 
the  political  will  necessary  for  serious  negotiation.  In 
that context, Mexico stands ready. 

As  an  elected  member  of  the  Security  Council, 
Mexico  participated  actively  and  constructively  in 
drafting  this  year’s  report  to  the  General  Assembly, 
ensuring  that  the  information  contained  therein  is  as 
objective  and  substantive  as  possible  and  faithfully 
reflects  the  actions  of  the  Security  Council  in  the 
period  under  review,  in  particular  during  June  2010, 
when Mexico was President of the Council. 

This  exercise  in  transparency  and  analysis  is 
particularly evident in the introduction of the report. In 
that regard, we acknowledge the work of the Nigerian 
delegation  in  drafting  the  annual  report  through  a 
process  of  open  consultation  with 
the  General 
Assembly,  promoting  Security  Council  transparency 
and making the report more analytical and substantive. 
However,  despite  the  progress  made,  my  delegation 
notes 
the  annual  report  still  has  room  for 
improvement. 
that 
faced  with 
the  devastating  consequences  of 
During  the  period  covered  by  the  annual  report, 

the  Security  Council  was 
serious 
challenges. To note but a few, in Haiti the Council had 
to  address 
the 
earthquake  that  aroused  the  sympathy  of  the  entire 
world.  In  Somalia,  internal  instability  and  its  regional 
repercussions  called  for  measures  to  preserve  security 
and  strengthen  capacities  to  address  the  problem  of 
piracy  and  to  ensure  the  survival  of  the  Transitional 
Federal Government. 

In  the  Sudan,  given  the  continued  humanitarian 
crises,  the  United  Nations  monitoring  capacity  was 
enhanced  and  the  foundations  laid  to  implement  the 
Doha  agreement  and  to  continue  to  focus  attention  on 
the  preparations  for  the  referendum  scheduled  for 
2011. 

In  Afghanistan  and  Iraq,  terrorist  attacks  and 
insurgent  groups  had  to  be  dealt  with  and  efforts 
pursued  to  improve  security  and  strengthen  national 
institutions. 

In Kyrgyzstan, a humanitarian crisis was avoided 
and regional stability preserved. In Gaza, the attack on 
the  humanitarian  aid  flotilla  was  addressed,  opening 
the way for the investigation of the incident and for the 
partial  lifting  of  the  restrictions  imposed  on  those 
living in the Gaza Strip. However, as we all know, the 
agenda  of  the  Security  Council  is  burdened  with 
conflicts  that  continue  to  threaten  international  peace 
and  security.  The  Middle  East  in  its  various  aspects 
provides a good example of this. 
Perhaps the most noteworthy achievements of the 

Security  Council  are  to  be  found  in  the  cross-cutting 
challenges  that  have  become  part  and  parcel  of  its 
agenda.  The  Council  has  enhanced  capacities 
to 
monitor, demobilize and reintegrate minors recruited in 
armed  conflict,  by  means  of  initiatives  introduced  in 
the  Working  Group  on  Children  and  Armed  Conflict, 
chaired  by  Mexico  over  the  past  two  years.  The 
adoption of resolution 1882 (2009) and the presidential 
statement on that subject in June (S/PRST/2010/10) are 
significant achievements that will have a direct impact 
on the protection of children. 
the  protection  of  civilians, 

benchmarks  have  been  established  to  monitor  the 
protection of women and children, taking into account 
in  particular  the  re-emergence  of  sexual  violence, 
particularly  in  the  African  continent.  The  bases  were 
also  laid  to  focus  greater  attention  on  post-conflict 
With  respect 
to 
12 

10-63467 
As  a  permanent  member  of 
in  2009-2010,  we  have  once 


situations  by  means  of  the  review  process  of  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  in  which  Mexico  played 
an active part as a facilitator in the process. 

In  the  past,  the  review  of  the  implementation  of 
resolution  1540  (2004),  the  Committee  established 
pursuant  to  which  I  chaired,  was  a  significant  step 
forward  in  preventing  the  proliferation  of  weapons  of 
mass destruction among non-State actors. 

Mexico’s  participation  in  the  Security  Council 
has been guided by its firm belief in the importance of 
elected  members  playing  their  part  in  maintaining 
international  peace  and  security,  which  is  a  shared 
responsibility pursuant to obligations under the United 
Nations  Charter.  By  participating  in  the  Security 
Council 
again 
demonstrated  our  commitment  to  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security and the preservation of 
the  principles  and  purposes  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter. 

the  General 
Assembly, my country shall continue to play an active 
part  in  the  negotiating  process  on  the  comprehensive 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  in  order  to  adapt  it  to 
the  reality  of  our  times  and  to  meet  the  challenges 
facing the international community. 
Mr. Mnisi (Swaziland): It is an honour to address 

this Assembly  under  agenda  item  119,  and  my  thanks 
go to the President of the Assembly for convening this 
meeting. My delegation aligns itself with the statement 
of  the  Group  of  African  States  delivered  by  the 
representative of Sierra Leone. 

The item under consideration has become one of 
the most important intergovernmental processes in the 
United  Nations.  It  is  a  process  characterized  by  the 
broad  interest  of  the  varied  constituents  of  the  United 
Nations  in  the  fact  that  the  current  balance  of  power 
tilts  towards  a  small  circle  constituting  3  per  cent  of 
the membership. This, on its own, is a parody that does 
not say much about the turn of history, the irrelevance 
of  the  patron/client  relationship  and  the  evolution  of 
consensus in the twenty-first century. 

Without prejudice to the mandate of the Security 
Council  and  the  inherent  intricacies  that  uphold  it, 
contemporary history has taught us that the 3 per cent 
who  run 
the 
cooperation  of  the  larger  membership  in  many  of  its 
undertakings. This simple fact indicates the breadth of 
the  show  have  relied  heavily  on 
A/65/PV.49
these  exchanges  will 
awareness  of  the  need  for  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council,  over  and  above  the  fact  that  the  organ  was 
established  on  a  foundation  of  control  before  its 
mandate  was  subsequently  glossed  over.  Few  can 
dispute  the  notion  that,  in  modern  times,  the  need  for 
this  control  has  faded.  The  advent  of  globalization, 
with all its faults, has mandated a redistribution of the 
spoils as the whole interface of challenges has mutated. 
However, without much consequence, the Open-Ended 
Working Group commissioned some 15 to 16 years ago 
has  not  made  any  tangible  headway  in  collating 
thoughts on where the vital players lay their beliefs. If 
there  are  any  thoughts  at  all,  they  are  usually  a 
caricature of the demands of the disenfranchised. 
the 

The  Kingdom  of  Swaziland  encourages 
the 
informal  plenary  negotiations  currently  under 
guidance of Mr. Zahir Tanin, Permanent Representative 
of  Afghanistan,  whom  we  thank  for  his  continued 
partiality  to  progress.  We  have  witnessed  a  bare-
knuckled exchange of views, and we hold out the hope 
that 
into  a  real 
negotiation with real trade-offs. 

The  intergovernmental  process  has  revealed  a 
horde  of  differences  that  are  daunting.  Some  are 
interregional  and  some  are  based  on  the  continued 
prevalence  of  narrow  interests  and  the  desire  to 
perpetuate the status quo. It is a known fact that some 
are  preoccupied  with  the  notion  of  reform  by  proxy. 
Some  have  divided  the  forces  of  negotiation  by 
reform. 
introducing 
Unreservedly,  my  delegation  rejects  outright 
the 
intermediate  approach  widely  held  in  the  African 
Group. This is a clear divide-and-rule strategy, and the 
approach comes in many forms and manifestations — a 
chameleon  that  would  take  years  if  not  decades  to 
disentangle. It also adds to the apathy of the permanent 
five and their slow response to the reform process. 

The  Kingdom  of  Swaziland  reiterates  its  full 
support  for  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and  the  Sirte 
Declaration.  Without  repeating  the  contents  of  either, 
which  are  known  to  all,  they  remain  our  lodestar  and 
we  encourage  those  who  set  out  to  distort  their 
principles 
the  many  motivations  put 
forward  by  any  State  member  of  the  African  Group. 
The  historical  injustice  and  regional  bias  within  the 
Security  Council  are  unmistakable.  More  than  half  of 
the  Security  Council  agenda  is  laden  with  items 
relating to Africa. Does that not indicate a need for the 
institutional  memory  of  Africa?  Without  prejudice  to 
cumbersome 
to  consider 
transform 
approaches 
to 
10-63467 

13 

the 
enabled 
A/65/PV.49 

other  disenfranchised  groups  or  regions,  the  Security 
Council’s preoccupation with Africa legitimizes such a 
question. 

The  need  for  no  less  than  two  permanent  seats 
and five non-permanent seats can never be overstated. 
Africa needs to find a voice within those ranks and the 
sooner  that  need  is  internalized,  the  better  will  be  the 
prospects  for  the  region  to  deal  with  its  peace  and 
security  dynamics. We  will  not  venture  to  analyse  the 
need  for  some  to  keep  Africa  out  of  the  Security 
Council  establishment,  because  my  country  has  no 
interest in that prospect. 

In closing, Swaziland urges the chairperson of the 
informal  plenary  meetings  to  remain  loyal  to  decision 
62/557,  which 
intergovernmental 
negotiations.  We  also  urge  him 
to  maintain  his 
impartiality  to  positions  and  to  employ  the  relevant 
strategies conducive to a quick and fruitful conclusion 
of the process. 
Mr.  Benítez  Versón  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

To  begin,  I  note  Cuba’s  full  support  for  the  statement 
made  by  the  representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement. 

Cuba  appreciates  the  presentation  of  the  annual 
report  (A/65/2)  of  the  Security  Council. We  recognize 
that  efforts  have  been  made  to  improve  the  quality  of 
the report. Nonetheless, much remains to be done. The 
report  remains  basically  a  descriptive  document  that 
lacks  the  analytical  and  substantive  approach  needed 
by  Member  States  to  assess  the  work  of  that  organ. 
Cuba  calls  on  the  Council  yet  again  to  work  in  that 
direction. 

On  the  other  hand,  we  again  wonder  why  the 
Council  never  submits  to  the  Assembly  the  special 
reports stipulated by the Charter in its Articles 15 and 
24. Such reports would be very useful as a complement 
to the annual report. Regrettably, they remain absent. 

Cuba underlines the responsibility of the Council 
to duly account to the General Assembly. In conformity 
with the Charter, we have entrusted that organ of very 
limited membership with the prime responsibility to act 
on 
not 
autonomously,  to  maintain  international  peace  and 
security.  The  Security  Council  needs  urgent  and  deep 
reform.  The  United  Nations  cannot  truly  be  reformed 
without  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  That  reform 
of  Member  States, 
although 
behalf 
actively 
in 
and 
Cuba 
has 
participated 
Cuba  considers 
that  genuine  reform  of 
cannot  continuously  be  postponed  or  disregarded. The 
demand of the majority cannot continue to be ignored. 

the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  reform  of  the 
Security  Council,  which  have  been  conducted  in  an 
exemplary manner by the Permanent Representative of 
Afghanistan,  Ambassador  Tanin.  Unfortunately,  there 
has been no clear progress in this process. Despite the 
interest  of  the  vast  majority,  in  reality  it  has  not  been 
possible  to  hold  true  negotiations.  And  there  is  a 
growing risk that we will end up repeating the process 
of endless deliberations without concrete results, which 
for  more  than  15  years  took  place  in  the  General 
Assembly Open-ended Working Group on the Question 
of  Equitable  Representation  on  and  Increase  in  the 
Membership of the Security Council and Other Matters 
Related to the Security Council. We must move to real 
negotiations as soon as possible. 

the 
Security  Council  must  include  seven  basic  elements. 
First,  the  number  of  members  of  the  Council  must  be 
increased  to  no  less  than  26.  With  that  figure,  the 
proportion  between  the  number  of  members  of  the 
Council and of United Nations Member States would at 
least  approach  that  existing  when  the  United  Nations 
was founded. 

to 
Second, 
enlargement  for  its  own  sake,  but  must  rather  be  to 
rectify 
the  unjustifiable  underrepresentation  of 
developing  countries  in  the  Council.  Cuba  will  not 
support  any  partial  or  selective  expansion  or  any 
enlargement of the composition of the members of the 
Council to the detriment of developing countries. 

in  Security  Council 
membership  must  occur  in  both  the  permanent  and 
non-permanent  categories.  The  majority  supports  that 
position. Increasing only the number of non-permanent 
seats  would  further  widen  the  huge  gap  that  already 
exists 
non-permanent 
members.  There  can  be  no  equitable  representation  in 
the Security Council if developing countries, including 
entire  regions,  remain  totally  underrepresented  in  the 
category of permanent membership. How is it possible 
to justify, for example, the fact that while over half of 
the Council’s agenda items refer to problems in Africa, 
that  region  still  has  no  representative  among  the 
permanent members? 
the  main  purpose  cannot  be 
permanent 
between 
increase 
Third, 
the 
14 

10-63467 
is 
an 
Fifth, 
the  veto 
anachronistic 
transformation  of 
Seventh,  a  profound 



Fourth, the new seats to be established, including 
those  in  the  category  of  permanent  membership,  must 
enjoy exactly the same prerogatives and rights as those 
attributed  to  the  current  seats,  without  establishing 
selective or discriminatory criteria. 

and 
antidemocratic  privilege  that  must  be  eliminated.  As 
long  as  the  veto  exists,  at  least  an  appropriate 
proportion of developing countries must also be able to 
exercise  it.  The  entry  of  new  permanent  members 
without  veto  power  would  be  equivalent  to  creating  a 
new  category  of  Council  members,  which  is  not 
favoured by Cuba. 

Sixth,  the  main  increase  in  the  number  of  both 
permanent  and  non-permanent  members  must  go  to 
developing  countries.  Permanent  membership  must  be 
granted  to  at  least  two  countries  from  Africa,  two 
developing countries from Asia and two countries from 
Latin America and the Caribbean. 

the 
Council’s working methods is required. Although some 
modest changes have been made in recent years, most 
have  been  more  formal  than  substantive.  The  truth  is 
that, at present, the Security Council is not transparent, 
democratic,  representative  or  efficient.  It 
is  our 
collective  responsibility  to  change  that  unacceptable 
reality. 

We advocate a Security Council in which closed-
door  consultations  are  the  exception.  We  aspire  to  a 
Council  that  addresses  the  matters  under  its  purview 
and  does  not  encroach  upon  those  of  other  bodies,  as 
occurs  with  alarming  frequency  with  respect  to  issues 
before  the  General Assembly. We  want  a  Council  that 
takes  genuinely  into  account  the  opinions  of  all 
Member  States  before  making  decisions  and  that 
ensures the real access of non-members to that body. 

Before concluding, allow me to comment briefly 
on  a  matter  of  procedure  that  we  believe  to  be 
important.  In  Cuba’s  opinion,  in  the  future  we  must 
seriously  consider  whether  it  is  appropriate  for  the 
General  Assembly  to  continue  debates  on  agenda 
items 29  and  119.  Given  the  time  restrictions  and  the 
fact  that  we  are  compelled  to  address  two  extremely 
relevant  and  far-reaching  items  in  only  one  statement, 
delegations  must  omit  many  important  facts  and  the 
sorely  needed  in-depth  review  is  not  achieved.  While 
we acknowledge their interrelationship, we believe that 
both the annual report of the Security Council and the 
A/65/PV.49
to 
reform  of  that  organ  are  matters  that,  given  their 
importance,  scope  and  implications,  deserve  to  be 
discussed separately by the General Assembly. 

I  would  like  to  conclude  by  congratulating  the 
delegations of Colombia, Germany, India, Portugal and 
South Africa  on  their  election  to  the  Security  Council 
and  to  wish  them  every  success  in  their  important 
responsibility. 
Mr.  Dabbashi  (Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya)  (spoke 

in  Arabic):  We  are  meeting  today  to  discuss  two 
important items that have been on the agenda for many 
years. Our consideration of those two items is a sign of 
our commitment to achieving a positive and successful 
outcome to the Security Council reform process, which 
we consider to be a basic prerequisite for the reform of 
the  United  Nations  as  a  whole.  Let  me  take  this 
opportunity 
thank  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin, 
Permanent Representative of Afghanistan, for presiding 
over the intergovernmental negotiation process and for 
his skilful management of it. 

While  we  agree  with  and  support  the  entire 
contents  of  the  statements  made  by  the  representative 
of  Sierra  Leone,  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  African 
States, and the representative of Egypt, on behalf of the 
Non-Aligned  Movement,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
make some observations regarding what we believe to 
be important for Security Council reform. 

Member  States  have  made  tremendous  efforts  in 
past sessions to achieve concrete progress in reforming 
the  Security  Council  and  expanding  its  membership. 
For  our  part,  we  are  determined  to  maintain  our 
support  for  the  reform  efforts  and  are  committed  to 
cooperating  constructively  with  all  parties  in  order  to 
reach  a  genuine  reform  of  the  Security  Council  that 
will  make  it  more  reflective  of  today’s  realities  and, 
consequently,  more  able  and  effective  in  performing 
the duties entrusted to it by the Charter. 

However,  at the same time we stress the need to 
correct  the  historic  injustice  done  to  the  African 
continent by denying it representation in the permanent 
membership  of  the  Security  Council,  to  seek  redress 
and  recognition  of  its  historic  rights,  and  to  end  its 
marginalization  by  giving 
the  opportunity  for 
equitable,  permanent  representation  in  the  Security 
the 
Council.  In 
immediate 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiating  process,  of  one  of  the 
two  permanent  seats  that  Africa  has  been  seeking 
that  regard,  Libya  believes 
granting, 
end 
that 
of 
before 
the 
it 
10-63467 

15 
to 
A/65/PV.49 

would be a legitimate response that would contribute to 
the  success  of  those  negotiations,  since  Africa  would 
then stand on equal footing with other regional groups. 

If  we  seek  genuine  reform  of  the  Council,  we 
must  all  work  together  to  break  the  moulds  set  by  its 
permanent  members,  which  would  necessarily  entail 
comprehensive  reform  of  all 
the  United  Nations 
organs.  To  that  end,  we  believe  that  there  is  no 
alternative  to  granting  the  General  Assembly  full 
mandates  and  to  making  its  resolutions  binding  on  all 
Member  States  and  all  United  Nations  bodies,  as  the 
General Assembly is the genuine  representative of the 
peoples of the world. Thus, the Security Council would 
become  a  tool  for  the  implementation  of  resolutions 
adopted by the General Assembly. 
We  should  also  seriously  consider  the  idea,  put 

forth  earlier  by  Libya, 
replace  permanent 
membership  of  States  with  permanent  membership  of 
regional  groups.  In  this  context,  the  privilege  of  the 
veto would either be granted to all or withdrawn from 
all. 

We  believe  that  Security  Council  reform  should 
include  a  genuine  reform  of  its  working  methods, 
activities  and  procedures.  Transparency  and  openness 
into 
in 
the  Council’s  work 
consideration,  as  should 
the 
participation  of  non-member  States,  particularly  those 
involved in issues under consideration, in the meetings 
of 
informal 
consultations  should  be  abolished.  Consultations 
should  be  restricted  to  the  consideration  of  draft 
resolutions  and  presidential  statements.  All  meetings 
and  discussions  should  be  open.  There  should  be  no 
restriction  to  participation  of  United  Nations  Member 
States in any meeting. 

Reports  of  the  Security  Council  to  the  General 
Assembly, including that  before  us today (A/65/2),  do 
not  provide  a  clear  picture  of  what  takes  place  in  the 
Security  Council  or  reflect  the  Council’s  commitment 
to  the  contents  of  the  resolutions  of  the  General 
Assembly.  There  is  also  a  need  to  abandon  the 
narrative  approach  and  to  include  analysis  of  the 
deliberations  on  the  basis  of  which  the  Security 
Council  resolutions  are  adopted.  Indeed,  the  various 
positions  of  States,  particularly  permanent  members, 
are  not  described  in  the  reports,  nor  are  any  reasons 
offered  to  explain  the  Council’s  powerlessness  to 
address serious crises that threaten international peace 
that  organ.  Closed  meetings  and 
should  be 
the  need 
taken 
to  ensure 

and security. We hope that future reports of the Council 
will  be  more  useful,  more  analytical  and  more 
explanatory  in  detailing  the  reasons  for  its  failed 
performance  in  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security. 

We  also  express  the  hope  that  the  General 
Assembly  will  act  at  the  right  time  to  correct  the 
shortfalls  of  the  Security  Council,  whether  they  be 
resort to double standards or to the use or threat of use 
of the veto, which have been pervasive in recent years. 
Mr. De Klerk (Netherlands): The annual Security 

Council report before us today states very clearly: 


“The  Security  Council,  in  discharging  its 
function  of  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security,  was  engaged  in  yet  another 
year of intensive activities.” (A/65/2, p. 1) 
in 
that  during 
the  reporting  period, 
It convened 191 formal meetings, most of which were 
public; it adopted 54 resolutions — one more than last 
year  —  and  27  presidential  statements;  and  issued  42 
statements to the press. 

This is a consistent production that illustrates the 
immense  workload  of  the  Security  Council  and  its 
working  groups 
the  sixty-fourth  session.  My 
delegation  appreciates  that  hard  work,  and  we  also 
appreciate 
the 
Council’s work was characterized by an increase in the 
number of open debates and briefings. In this context, 
one  should  not  forget  that  the  Council  has  made 
significant  strides  in  improving  its  working  methods 
and in increasing the transparency of its work. 

For the sixty-fifth year, the Security Council will 
continue to act on behalf of all Members of the United 
Nations. Therefore, it is a matter of legitimate concern 
to  the  entire  membership  that  the  composition  of  the 
Council  should  appropriately  reflect  the  geopolitical 
realities of today, and not those of 1945. 

At  a  time  when  countries,  and  certain  groups 
within  countries,  still  resort  to  violence  or  continue 
with conflict, it is precisely in matters of war and peace 
that  legitimacy  and  resolve  are  most  essential  — 
legitimacy  and  resolve  that  only  the  United  Nations 
and the Security Council can provide. 

In  the  view  of  the  Netherlands,  the  Council’s 
legitimacy  and  continued  effectiveness  are  both  at 
stake.  In  order  for  the  Council  to  remain  effective,  a 
balance  needs  to  be  struck  between  its  legitimacy  and 
16 

10-63467 


its effectiveness. In our view, both can go hand-in-hand 
if there is a modest increase in Council membership. 

Following  the  announcement  made  by  President 
Obama earlier this week, the eyes of world opinion are 
once again focused on the question of Security Council 
reform,  giving  new  impetus  to  the  process  that  was 
launched  at  the  end  of  the  sixty-third  session.  At  the 
end  of 
the  sixty-fourth  session,  His  Excellency 
Ambassador  Tanin  was  able  to  successfully  present  a 
negotiation text. We should aim for tangible results by 
the end of this session of the General Assembly. 

The  Netherlands  Government  would  like  to  take 
this  opportunity  to  reiterate  its  appreciation  of  and 
strong support for the judicious work that Ambassador 
Tanin,  as  chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations, 
has  done  so  far. The  membership  should  build  on  this 
solid  work.  The  negotiation  text,  as  presented  by  the 
chair this summer, should be drastically shortened into 
a  condensed  and  consolidated  text.  To  this  end, 
Ambassador  Tanin  has  submitted  some  valuable 
proposals  that  merit  further  discussion.  If  Member 
States  do  not  manage  themselves  to  come  up  with  a 
shorter  text,  we  should  explore  other  ways  to  achieve 
this. The Netherlands is ready to play an active role in 
this regard. 

Having listened carefully to the statements of the 
membership,  my  delegation  noted  that  the  so-called 
intermediate  solution  has  been  mentioned  more 
frequently  than  in  the  past.  There  is  a  momentum 
building for such a temporary and transitional solution 
that should be a crucial step towards a more permanent 
solution.  Naturally,  this  transitional  solution  can  take 
many  forms  and  shapes,  and  this  is  a  debate  that  has 
yet to begin. 

Minister, who said in this very Hall: 

Let  me  close  by  quoting  our  former  Prime 
“[I]t is clear to the Netherlands that there should 
be  more  room  for  more  countries  to  join  the 
discussions  and  exert  influence:  room  for  large 
countries that in 1945 were not yet large enough 
or  were  not  yet  Members of  the  United  Nations; 
but  also  room  for  smaller  nations  that,  as  troop-
supplying  countries  or  as  interested  parties  in  a 
particular region, should have the right to speak. I 
would  add  immediately  that  countries  that  want 
influence should realize that this entails financial, 
political  and  moral  obligations.  Or,  in  the  words 
A/65/PV.49
that 
transparency,  and 
of  Winston  Churchill,  the  price  of  greatness  is 
responsibility.” (A/65/PV.16, p. 29) 

Our  declarations  today  create  expectations  and 
obligations;  consequently,  doing  nothing  leads  to  the 
conclusion that the United Nations cannot deliver. It is 
up to us to prove the United Nations pessimists wrong. 
Mr.  Goledzinowski  (Australia):  We  thank  the 

Security Council for the submission of its annual report 
(A/65/2)  and  the  Permanent  Representative  of  the 
United  Kingdom,  Sir  Mark  Lyall  Grant,  for  his 
introduction of the report to the General Assembly. 

I  take  to  heart  the  suggestion  of  Ambassador 
Parham  earlier  that  we  should  not  obsess  about  the 
report, as opposed to the work of the Council itself. So 
I will restrict myself to welcoming the report, which is 
as good as any of its kind that we have seen. However, 
we continue to believe that, fundamentally, the Council 
should commit to a vision of active accountability and 
deliberate 
this  should  be 
reflected in a more analytical report, perhaps in parallel 
with the existing procedural report. 

Turning  now  to  the  other  subject  of  today’s 
debate,  Security  Council  reform,  Australia  maintains 
that reform of the Council is one of the most important 
issues  we  are  seized  of  here  at  the  United  Nations, 
something  in  which  we  all  have  a  stake.  Yet  little 
progress  has  been 
substantive 
negotiations  have  yet  to  really  commence.  We  should 
not  shy  away  from  the  difficult  questions.  Reform  of 
the composition of the Council is clearly long overdue. 
In  particular,  the  absence  of  permanent  membership 
from  the  African  and  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
regions is a striking injustice. 

My delegation has said before that the impasse on 
forging  consensus  on  composition  and  size  of  a 
reformed  Council  should  not  serve  as  an  obstacle  to 
achieving meaningful reform of the Council’s working 
methods.  It  is  vital  to  enhancing  the  credibility  of  the 
United  Nations  and  its  capacity  to  fulfil  the  goals  set 
out in the Charter. We welcome the revisions reflected 
in  the  note  by  the  President  of  the  Security  Council 
(S/2010/507),  issued  in  July  following  the  Security 
Council’s  open  debate  on  working  methods  in  April 
(see S/PV.6300). But we also agree with the remarks of 
the group of five small nations, delivered this morning 
by Ambassador Seger of Switzerland, who pointed out 
that a significant oversight in the note is the absence of 
implementation mechanisms. 
achieved, 
and 
10-63467 

17 

A/65/PV.49 


We  would  also  like  to  join  with  the  calls  by  our 
Pacific neighbours this morning for the Council to take 
up the issue of the implications of climate change and 
security,  following  the  historic  passage  of  General 
Assembly resolution 63/281. We request the Council to 
place that matter on its agenda in 2011 and to urgently 
deliberate on action to address that existential threat. 

In conclusion, we thank Ambassador Tanin for his 
continued  efforts  as  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations. I cannot put it better than Her Excellency 
the  Ambassador  of  Romania  did  this  afternoon  in 
describing  his  “elegant  mastery”,  perseverance  and 
persistence. I assure Mr. Tanin of Australia’s continued 
support and confidence. 
Mrs.  DiCarlo  (United  States  of  America):  I 

would like to thank the Security Council President for 
this  month,  Ambassador  Lyall  Grant  of  the  United 
Kingdom, for his introduction of the Security Council’s 
annual  report  (A/65/2)  to  the  General  Assembly,  and 
Ambassador  Ogwu  and  the  Nigerian  delegation  for 
their  preparation  of  the  annual  report  during  their 
presidency of the Security Council in July. 
The annual report provides non-Council members 

with  a  transparent  and  comprehensive  review  of  the 
intensive  work  of  the  Security  Council.  We  hope  the 
report  does 
the  exchange  of 
information  and  enhance  the  cooperation  between  the 
Assembly  and  the  Council,  two  co-equal  principal 
organs  of the United  Nations. The United States takes 
seriously  the  importance  of  making  sure  that  all 
Member  States  are  informed  of  and  appropriately 
involved in the Council’s work. The Council has made 
a distinct effort to ensure that more of its meetings are 
open, and we welcome the participation of all Member 
States  in  Council  proceedings  during  such  sessions. 
During  our  presidency  of  the  Council  next  month,  the 
United  States  will  be  continuing  the  practice  of 
providing  a  briefing  to  non-members  on  the  Council’s 
programme of work. 

Turning  to  our  other  topic  today,  we  welcomed 
the  reappointment  of  Ambassador  Tanin  to  chair  the 
sixth  round  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security  Council  reform.  We  support  Ambassador 
Tanin’s efforts to shepherd these negotiations forward, 
and  we  hope  Member  States  will  approach  the  next 
round with pragmatism and flexibility. While we know 
that  genuine  disagreements  remain  on  certain  aspects 
of  the  issue,  we  hope  the  talks  can  lead  to  a  reform 
facilitate 
indeed 
summarize  key 
process  that  is  Member  State-driven  and  enjoys  broad 
consensus. As we stated during the first five rounds of 
the  negotiations  and  will  continue  to  discuss  in  the 
current round, the United States believes that the long-
term  viability  of  the  Security  Council  depends  on  its 
reflecting  the  world  of  the  twenty-first  century.  We 
support  expansion  of  the  Council  in  a  way  that  will 
diminish neither its effectiveness nor its efficiency. Let 
me  briefly 
elements  of  my 
Government’s position. 

The United States is open in principle to a modest 
expansion  of  both  permanent  and  non-permanent 
members. We strongly believe that any consideration of 
an expansion of permanent members must be country-
specific  in  nature.  In  assessing  which  countries  merit 
permanent membership, the United States will take into 
account  the  ability  of  countries  to  contribute  to  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  and 
other purposes of the United Nations. 

As  we  stated  in  our  national  security  strategy 
earlier  this  year,  my  Government  is  committed  to 
engaging  emerging  Powers 
international 
architecture.  The  United  States  supports  a  Security 
Council membership that upholds human rights and the 
rule of law at home and abroad, and makes significant 
implementation  of  Security 
contributions 
Council 
especially 
their 
enforcement,  as  well  as  through  financial,  personnel, 
and political support. As we have previously stated, the 
United  States  is  not  open  to  an  enlargement  of  the 
Security  Council 
the  current  veto 
structure. 

We  remain  committed  to  a  serious,  deliberate 
effort,  working  with  other  Member  States,  to  find  a 
way  forward  that  both  adapts  the  Security  Council  to 
current global realities and enhances its ability to carry 
out its mandate and effectively meet the challenges of 
the new century. 
Mr. Limeres (Argentina) (spoke in Spanish): My 

delegation  is  grateful  for  the  report  of  the  Security 
Council  contained 
in  document  A/65/2.  We  also 
welcome  the  convening  of  a  new  General  Assembly 
meeting on Security Council reform, providing another 
opportunity  to  ascertain  the  points  of  view  of  United 
Nations  Members  on  reform  and  how  progress  can  be 
made on the subject. I would also like to pay tribute to 
the  work  done  by  Ambassador  Tanin  towards  our 
shared goal. 
the 
decisions, 
that  changes 
through 
in 
the 
to 
18 

10-63467 
to 
important  matter,  owing 


We must remember that Security Council reform 

is  an  extremely 
its 
implications  for  the  Organization.  It  must,  therefore, 
enjoy the support of all Member States. It cannot be a 
process  in  which  each  side  competes  for  a  specific 
number  of  followers,  but  rather  one  that  leads  to  a 
solution  accepted  by  all  Members,  since  it  will 
permanently  change  the  shape  of  a  body  with  lofty 
responsibilities. 

Furthermore,  Council  reform  is  not  limited  to  a 
single aspect, although there is one that seems to take 
centre  stage.  Ambassador  Tanin’s  informal  document 
identifies  five  issues:  categories  of  members;  the  veto 
question;  regional  representation;  the  size  of  the 
Security  Council  and  its  working  methods;  and  the 
relationship  between  the  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly. All of those elements are intimately related 
and demand reform, which, in order to achieve the goal 
of  all  Members  for  the  Council  —  which  has  primary 
responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security  —  will  transform  it  into  a  more 
representative,  transparent,  inclusive,  democratic  and 
effective body. 

In  some  of  those  five  issues  my  delegation  sees 
possibilities  for  consensus,  since  they  have  not  been 
the  subject  of  major  disagreements  among  Members. 
For  example,  it  is  generally  accepted  that  appropriate 
measures  must  be  adopted  to  improve  the  working 
methods  of  the  Council  and  that  the  interaction 
between 
the  General 
Assembly must be improved. There is also potential for 
consensus  on  the  number  of  Council  members.  We 
must not see the strongly divisive matter of categories 
of  membership  as  an  obstacle  to  the  wider  issue  of 
reform itself, which is necessary. 

The achievement of progress towards a successful 
reform  is  imperative,  which  is  the  consensus  view  of 
all  Members.  Argentina  reiterates  that  the  type  of 
solution  that  could  generate  that  level  of  support 
among  United  Nations  Member  States  will  not  come 
from  a  so-called  interim  approach,  which  could  entail 
the  possibility  of  crystallising  a  particular  position  — 
especially if that position does not enjoy the support of 
a  consensus  of  Members  —  but  rather  from  an 
approach  that  seeks  an  intermediate  or  compromise 
solution.  The  intermediate  solution  that  we  envision 
would  mean,  basically,  an  increase  in  the  number  of 
non-permanent  seats.  It  would  permit 
the  many 
the  Security  Council  and 
A/65/PV.49
the  chance 
to 
in  history.  Further, 
that  have  not  yet  had 
countries 
participate as Security Council members to do so. 

Argentina  believes  that  a  solution  of  that  kind 
would lead to a more representative Council, because it 
would  correct  the  lack  of  representation  of  some 
regions and of developing nations. At the same time it 
would bolster the legitimacy of the Council, making it 
more  democratic.  The  argument  that  to  increase  the 
number  of  non-permanent  members  of  the  Council 
would  just  perpetuate  the  status  quo  is,  in  fact, 
fallacious.  Actually,  it  is  increasing  the  number  of 
permanent  members  that  would  not  only  maintain  the 
status  quo  —  which  is  an  imbalance  whereby  a  few 
countries  permanently  enjoy  a  privileged  position  — 
but  in  fact  exacerbate  it.  The  permanent  member 
category  is  not  based  on  the  concept  of  democratic 
representation but rather, as we all know, is the product 
of  a  particular  moment 
it 
contradicts the explicit recognition by Members of the 
Organization of the role of non-permanent members of 
the  Security  Council.  An  intermediate  solution  would 
also contain in itself the germ of durability, because it 
would  mean  a  Council  that  not  only  reflected  the 
dynamic  of  today’s  world  but  also  was  adaptable  to 
future  changes  on  the  international  stage.  Lastly, 
elections would foster a sense of the Security Council’s 
accountability. 
I want to reiterate my delegation’s support for the 

proposal in that vein presented by Italy and Colombia 
on behalf of the Uniting for Consensus group, of which 
Argentina  is  a  member.  I  want  to  emphasize  the 
group’s  desire  for  negotiation.  It  has  not  only 
propounded  the  idea  that  reform  must  be  based  on 
proposals that could realistically garner the support of 
the  majority  of  States  but  has  also  demonstrated 
genuine 
the  end  of  achieving  a 
compromise  solution.  We  trust  that  the  dynamism  of 
the  President  of  this  session  of  the  Assembly  will 
inspire  all  delegations  to  confront  the  issue  with 
realism and flexibility, keeping in mind that the viable 
solution is one based on compromise. 

Argentina  wants  to  make  progress  through  a 
transparent  and  predictable  process,  fundamentally 
driven by the States. In that regard, I wish to voice our 
disagreement  with  the  suggestions  made  this  morning 
that  the  President  of  the  Assembly  and  Ambassador 
Tanin  should  promote  a  truncated  version  of  Mr. 
Tanin’s  document,  via  consultations  with  groups  of 
Members.  I  want  to  underline  Argentina’s  belief  that 
flexibility 
to 
10-63467 

19 

A/65/PV.49 

negotiation on a matter of such importance must not be 
approached as a process of elimination of positions in 
an unofficial document, merging them in various ways 
without  the  participation  of  the  entire  membership. 
Transparency  is  essential  to  such  participation,  and 
only  open  consultations  can  provide  the  appropriate 
framework for discussions of this very important issue. 

The search for a compromise that would enjoy a 
consensus  among  all  Members  depends,  as  one 
delegation stated this morning, on dedication and open-
mindedness.  Allow  me  to  point  out  that  the  latter  is 
essential in order to identify realistic compromises that 
all Members can accept for a reform that is vital to the 
United  Nations.  Argentina  has  faith  in  the  wise 
leadership  of  the  President  of  this  session  and  will 
support his efforts in the matter. 
Mr.  Appreku  (Ghana):  I  am  grateful  for  the 

opportunity  to  deliver  the  following  statement  on 
behalf  of  the  Ghanaian  delegation  on  these  two 
important agenda items. 

My delegation associates itself with the statement 
made by the Permanent Representative of Sierra Leone 
on behalf of the African Group and the statement made 
by the Permanent Representative of Egypt on behalf of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and  wishes  to  make  the 
following remarks in our national capacity. 
My  delegation  joins  other  speakers  in  thanking 

the President of the Security Council for the month of 
November,  Sir  Mark  Lyall  Grant,  Permanent 
Representative  of  the  United  Kingdom,  for  presenting 
the  report  of  the  Council  to  the  General  Assembly 
(A/65/2).  My  delegation  also  thanks  the  Nigerian 
delegation for preparing the introduction to the report. 
The  role  of  the  Secretariat  in  the  preparation  of  the 
report is also appreciated. 

Ghana attaches great importance to the role of the 
Security  Council,  as  enshrined  in  the  Charter,  in  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security,  and 
that  explains  why,  as  a  non-permanent  member  from 
2006  to  2007,  our  country  contributed  actively  to  the 
work  of  the  Council.  When  not  a  member  of  the 
Council,  my  delegation  has,  both  in  the  past  and  in 
recent 
the 
deliberations  of  the  Council  through  its  thematic 
debates, 
recent  open  debates  on 
preventive  diplomacy  and  on  women  and  peace  and 
security, among others, as well as in informal briefings 
on the work of the Security Council. 
times,  endeavoured 
including 
to  participate 
in 
the 
20 


The  interaction  of  the  Security  Council  and  the 
General  Assembly  should  be  informed  by  a  need  for 
those  two  principal  organs  to  strive,  while  respecting 
each  other’s  mandates,  to  complement  their  activities 
with  efforts  to  achieve  the  shared  objectives  of  the 
Organization  concerning  peace  and  security,  human 
rights, development and the promotion of international 
law,  including  respect  for  the  principles  and  purposes 
of the Charter. 

Indeed, there are certain areas of the work of the 
United  Nations,  such  as  post-conflict  peacebuilding, 
where  the  need  for  complementary,  collaborative  and 
coordinated approaches to its work is mandated by the 
relevant  concurrent  founding  resolutions.  Such  an 
approach  will  be  a  sure  way  of  strengthening  and 
enhancing the effectiveness of the Organization. 

Given  the  importance  of  regional  organizations, 
such  as  the  African  Union,  in  the  attainment  of  the 
objectives of the Organization, my delegation calls on 
the  Council  to  assess  the  impact  or  effectiveness  of 
initiatives aimed at enhancing cooperation between the 
Council  and  regional  organizations.  In  fact, 
that 
evaluation should be a two-way matter, in which inputs 
from  regional  organs,  such  the  African  Union  Peace 
and Security Council, become or remain desirable. 

Despite  the  significance  of  the  work  of  the 
Council,  Ghana  is  convinced  that  the  current  position 
of the Council will be strengthened through reform of 
that  organ. The  United  Nations  that  was  born  in  1945 
with some 50 Member States is different from today’s 
United  Nations,  65  years  later,  with  192  Member 
States, in a changing world, requiring the Organization 
to adapt and be responsive to the changing times. 

Thus,  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the 
question of equitable representation on and increase in 
the  membership  of  the  Council  and  other  related 
matters  must  be  given  renewed  urgency.  Ghana  will 
therefore  continue  to  support  the  facilitator  of  the 
negotiations, 
of 
Afghanistan,  His Excellency Ambassador Zahir Tanin, 
in  expediting  the  process  to  an  early  and  successful 
end. Like other African States, Ghana looks forward to 
an  outcome  of  the  negotiations  that  will  lead  to  the 
creation  of  additional  permanent  seats  to  be  allocated 
to African States. 

In conclusion, I wish to stress that amending the 
Charter  to  allocate  permanent  places  to African  States 
on  the  Security  Council  is  long  overdue.  Addressing 
the  Permanent  Representative 
10-63467 
in 
to  achieve 
representation 
To  conclude, 
from  Africa,  Latin  America, 


the  imbalance  in  the  composition  of  the  Security 
Council, in particular in the permanent seat category, in 
which  African  States  are  not  represented  at  all,  will 
ensure greater equity in the application of the principle 
of unanimity and give more substance to the principle 
of  equitable  geographical 
the 
membership of the Council. 

the  Ghana  delegation  will, 
therefore, also count on the leadership and commitment 
that the President has demonstrated so far, in particular 
the  interest  he  has  shown  in  the  issue  of  Security 
Council reform, in reaching that goal. 
Mr. Wolfe (Jamaica): I have the honour to speak 

on behalf of the so-called L.69 group of countries (see 
A/61/L.69). The L.69 group comprises a diverse group 
of  countries 
the 
Caribbean,  Asia  and  the  Pacific  that  are  united  by  a 
common  cause,  namely, 
lasting  and 
comprehensive reform of the Security Council. 

The  report  of  the  Security  Council  (A/65/2), 
covering the period of 1 August 2009 to 31 July 2010, 
represents a factual record of the activities undertaken 
by  the  Council  with  respect  to  the  various  countries 
and situations on the agenda. We have also taken note 
of,  and 
level  of 
engagement  between  the  Council  and  the  African 
Union  (AU),  in  particular,  its  Peace  and  Security 
Council.  The  full  engagement  of  Africa  in  finding  a 
solution 
to 
ensuring  that  hard-won  peace  is  transformed  into 
lasting  peace,  security,  stability  and  sustainable 
development throughout the continent. 

We look forward, therefore, to more frequent and 
in-depth  engagements  between  the  Council  and  the 
African Union and further emphasize the need to equip 
the  African  Union 
through  capacity-building  and 
resource mobilization so that it can be at the forefront 
of solving conflicts on the continent. 
While  the  efforts  of  the  Council  to  improve  its 

working methods and enhance transparency are indeed 
important,  they  must  be  viewed  solely  as  one  element 
in 
its  overall  reform  process.  Improved  working 
methods,  though  necessary,  cannot  substitute  for  the 
comprehensive  change 
the 
composition  of  the  membership  of  the  Council  to 
render  it  more  reflective  of  contemporary  global 
realities. 
long-standing  conflicts 
indeed  welcome, 
the  greater 
is  critical 
required 
to 
that 
is 
in 
A/65/PV.49
seats 
that  addresses 

In that context, the L.69 group is pleased to note 
the  efforts  of  the  facilitator  and  Chairman  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiating  process,  which  has 
resulted  in  a  text-based  document.  It  is  our  hope  that, 
through  further  discussions  and  negotiations,  we  will 
be  able  to  condense  the  document  into  a  more 
manageable  text  as  the  negotiating  process  moves 
forward. 

Allow  me  to  reiterate  the  guiding  principles  that 
have  underpinned  our  collaboration  within  the  L.69 
group.  The  L.69  group  supports  expansion  in  the 
Council’s  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories  of 
membership.  It  is  only  through  such  an  expansion, 
which  addresses  the  lack  of  representation  of  the 
African,  Asian  and  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
countries,  that  we  can  achieve  a  more  representative, 
legitimate, credible and effective Council. 
The  L.69  group  also  supports  a  Charter-based 

distribution  of 
the  non-
representation  of  some  regions  in  the  permanent 
membership and the underrepresentation of developing 
countries  in  both  categories  of  membership,  including 
small  island  developing  States  in  the  non-permanent 
category. New permanent  members should be selected 
based on the criterion established in the United Nations 
Charter.  The  L.69  group  supports  an  increase  in  the 
Council’s  membership  from  its  current  15  to  some 
25 members. The L.69 group supports the conduct of a 
review  of 
the  permanent 
membership after a period of 15 years to ensure that it 
continues to reflect the global realities. 
As  we  have  previously  stated,  the  L.69  group 

calls 
the 
for  a  comprehensive 
Council’s  working  methods,  which  is  necessary  in 
order  to  ensure  greater  access  and  transparency  to 
non-Council  Members  and  the  full  implementation  of 
Articles  31  and  32  of  the  United  Nations  Charter. We 
are  also  of  the  view  that  the  Council  must  become 
more  accountable,  fair,  inclusive,  open  and  consistent 
in its actions. 

The group is  also of the view that there must be 
restrictions on enlarging the scope of Article 24 of the 
United Nations Charter; formalization of the Council’s 
rules 
enhanced 
consultations  with 
troop-  and  police-contributing 
countries;  reasonable  restrictions  on  the  use  of  the 
veto;  more  open  debates,  meetings  and  briefings  by 
United  Nations  officials;  and  a  wider  and  earlier 
the  composition  of 
improvement 
procedure; 
improved 
and 
of 
in 
10-63467 

21 

through 
including 
improved 
A/65/PV.49 

circulation  of  draft  resolutions  and  draft  presidential 
statements. There must be rational use of sanctions and 
rationalization  of  the  Council’s  agenda.  Also,  we 
support  changes  to  the  decision-making  process  and 
the scope of decision-making as one means of making 
the Council more effective and more relevant. 

The  L.69  group  also  calls  for  an  improved 
relationship  between  the  Council  and  the  General 
Assembly, 
reporting, 
regular  consultations  between  the  Council  and  the 
Assembly,  and  strict  adherence  to  their  respective 
mandates defined in the Charter. 

In closing, allow me to recall paragraph 30 of the 
Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2),  in  which 
world  leaders,  inter  alia,  resolved  to  intensify  the 
efforts  to  achieve  a  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  in  all  its  aspects.  I  would  also  recall 
the 2005 World Summit Outcome document (resolution 
60/1),  in  which  leaders  further  resolved  to  support 
early  reform  of  the  Security  Council  as  an  essential 
element of overall efforts to reform the United Nations 
in  order  to  make  it  more  broadly  representative, 
efficient  and  transparent  and  thereby  further  enhance 
its effectiveness and legitimacy and the implementation 
of its decisions. 

The L.69 group is committed to playing its part in 
ensuring  that  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security 
Council is not left to future generations. We must work 
together to realize a reformed, more representative and 
more accountable Security Council, in order to ensure 
that  future  generations  are  able  to  live  in  a  safer  and 
more secure world. 
Mr. Motanyane (Lesotho): I thank the Permanent 

Representative of the United Kingdom, in his capacity 
as the President of the Security Council for the month 
of  November,  for  presenting  the  report  of  the  Council 
(A/65/2)  to  the  General  Assembly  today.  Our  thanks 
also  go  to  Nigeria  for  its  immense  contribution  to  the 
preparation of the report before us. 

I  would  like  to  align  myself  with  the  statements 
delivered  by  the  Permanent  Representatives  of  Sierra 
Leone  and  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the African  Group  and 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  respectively.  Allow  me, 
however, to add a few remarks in my national capacity. 

The importance of the Security Council cannot be 
overemphasized. It speaks to the very formation of the 
United  Nations.  The  reasons  why  the  United  Nations 
is  not  reflective  of 
came  into  existence  are  known  to  all.  Mankind  had 
been  severely  marred  by  the  scourge  of  war.  We  then 
resolved to: 

“unite  our  strength  to  maintain  international 
peace  and  security,  and  to  that  end:  to  take 
effective  collective  measures  for  the  prevention 
and removal of threats to the peace”. 

Naturally,  therefore,  it  becomes  clear  that  the 
responsibility to maintain world peace reposes equally 
on all of us. In the words of the Charter, membership in 
the  United  Nations  is  open  to  all  peace-loving  States 
that, in the judgement of the Organization, are able and 
willing to carry out those obligations. 

Consequently,  there  can  be  no  doubt  about  the 
possibility  of  any  one  Member  State  serving  in  any 
United  Nations  organ,  including  the  Security  Council. 
In  short,  the  Security  Council  should  not  be  the 
exclusive  domain  of  a  few.  The  Council’s  current 
membership 
the  geopolitical 
realities  of  the  United  Nations.  The  time  for  heeding 
the  call  for  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security 
Council is, we wish to submit, long overdue. 

When the United Nations was formed in 1945 by 
about  50  States,  all  the  regions  of  the  world  were 
represented. Africa, too, was represented by certain of 
its States that had attained independence then, namely, 
Egypt,  Ethiopia,  Liberia  and  others.  Despite  that  fact, 
Africa did not make it into the Council’s mainstream. 
Today, the membership of the United Nations has 

expanded  more 
important 
structural change in our Organization. With the end of 
the  Cold War,  a  new  situation  emerged,  which  clearly 
dictates  a  radical  and  yet  progressive  reform  of  the 
Council. The Security Council has, however, remained 
the  same  as  it  was  some  65  years  ago  —  a  grave 
injustice indeed. 

The  reform  process  has  been  long  and,  to  a 
certain extent, wearisome. Nonetheless, we should not 
lose  hope.  It  is  not  too  late,  I  believe,  to  reverse  the 
situation. It is time to enter into real negotiations, and 
we  are  looking  forward  to  doing  that. The  position  of 
Africa  is  well  known,  and  so  too  are  the  positions  of 
other regions, groups of States and individual Member 
States  in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the 
reform of the Council. 
Clearly, we are all in favour of a model that will 

garner the widest possible support. We wish to reiterate 
threefold  —  an 
than 
22 

10-63467 
to 
the 
efforts 


that the reform enveloping all the five key clusters — 
namely,  membership  categories,  the  veto,  regional 
representation,  the  size  of  an  enlarged  Council  and 
working  methods  —  and  the  relationship  between  the 
Council and the General Assembly will go a long way 
towards  revamping  and  bringing  legitimacy  to  the 
Council.  Needless  to  say,  a  reformed  Council  should 
accommodate the unrepresented, underrepresented and 
small- and medium-sized States. 

Turning to the report of the Security Council, we 
note some considerable strides made by the Council in 
discharging  its  mandate.  The  agenda  of  the  Council 
reflects that the Council is striving to be responsive to 
the  current  threats  to  international  peace  and  security. 
We  note  that  the  Council  had  to  deal  with  complex 
conflict  situations  throughout  the  world.  However,  we 
realize  that  the  Council  may  not,  by  virtue  of  its 
exclusive nature, be able to adequately and definitively 
address such problems. 

While  we  note 
enhance 
transparency in the working methods of the Council, a 
lot  still  needs  to  be  done.  A  significant  number  of 
Council  meetings  are  still  held  in  camera.  Lack  of 
adequate  consultations  between  the  Council  and  the 
General  Assembly  remain  a  cause  for  concern.  The 
rules  of  procedure  of  the  Council  remain  provisional. 
Moreover, it is our view that it would be desirable for 
the  report  of  the  Council  to  be  more  detailed  and 
analytical on the question of how its efforts impact on 
peace  processes  in  conflict  areas,  whether  there  is 
variance  in  the  level  of  compliance  with  its  directives 
or  resolutions,  what  the  cause  of  that  is  and  how  the 
Council intends to solve that problem. 

I  would  like  to  conclude  by  reiterating  that  the 
onus is on us, as a collective, to unite our forces for a 
common good — that is, the comprehensive reform of 
the  Security  Council.  The  ideals  of  our  founding 
fathers  enjoin  all  of  us  to  take  decisive  and  inspiring 
steps  to  reshape  the  configuration  of  the  Council. 
Whatever  the  dimensions  of  the  problem  may  be,  we 
must  seek  solace  in  the  saying  that,  where  there  is  a 
will,  there  is  a  way.  If,  indeed,  a  robust  Security 
Council is the desire of all of us, let us run and finish 
the race. As we do so, let us ensure that none of us is 
left by the wayside. 
Mr.  Ulibarri  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Costa  Rica  welcomes 
the  United  Kingdom’s 
presentation  of  the  annual  report  of  the  Security 
A/65/PV.49
that 
that, 
its 
transparency, 
improving 
the  President  of 
for  Consensus  group, 
Council  to  the  General  Assembly  (A/65/2)  and  is 
pleased 
the  Assembly  has 
convened this debate on the reform of that organ. 

We  align  ourselves  with  the  statement  made  by 
the Permanent Representative of Switzerland on behalf 
of the group of five small countries, of which we are a 
member.  We  support  many  remarks  made  by  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Italy,  coordinator  of  the 
Uniting 
and  by  other 
representatives  of  States  members  of  that  group,  to 
which we also belong. 

This debate is an excellent opportunity to reflect 
upon  and  make  progress  on  the  four  central  elements 
that  should  guide  the  process  of  Security  Council 
reform.  I  am  referring  to  increasing  its  efficiency, 
strengthening 
its 
representativeness and consolidating its legitimacy. All 
of this needs to be done in order to bolster the role of 
the United Nations, and that of the Security Council in 
particular, in global governance. 

To that end, Costa Rica believes that we need to 
move forward in two crucial areas. The first is that of 
ensuring  an  appropriate  balance  of  powers  and  more 
vigorous  interaction  between  the  General  Assembly 
and  the  Security  Council.  The  second  is  that  of 
developing  a  comprehensive  reform  process 
that 
addresses not only the composition of the Council, but 
also its working methods more broadly. 
Two  years  ago,  on  an  occasion  such  as  this,  my 

delegation  expressed 
the 
introduction  of  the  annual  report  of  the  Security 
Council before the General Assembly “should not be a 
mere exercise of rhetoric, nor should it become a mere 
statement of facts” (A/63/PV.53, p. 6). The introduction 
of  the  report  should  lead  to  a  more  analytical  and 
interactive  engagement  that  looks  not  only  to  the  past 
but also towards the future. Both the retrospective and 
the  forward-looking  analyses  require  us  to  do  more 
than simply give an inventory. 

Costa Rice reiterates the need  for the Council to 
submit  to  the  General  Assembly,  in  addition  to  its 
annual  report,  special  reports  pursuant  to  Articles  14 
and  15  of  the  Charter.  Such  reports  are  especially 
important  with  respect  to  the  establishment  of  new 
peacekeeping  operations,  the  substantive  modification 
or  termination  of  mandates,  or  the  imposition  of  a 
sanctions regime or other coercive measures. 
for  Costa  Rica, 
10-63467 

23 

A/65/PV.49 


Furthermore,  my  country,  as  a  member  of  the 
small  five,  again  invites  and  encourages  members  of 
the Security Council to hold an informal, inclusive and 
interactive  debate  with  all  Member  States  during  the 
initial stage of the drafting of the report. In this regard, 
we  appreciate  Nigeria’s  efforts  and  openness 
to 
dialogue with Member States during the preparation of 
the report presented today. 

However,  such  opportunities  for  openness  and 
interaction  need  to  become  more  common  and  more 
in-depth.  My  country  knows  that  this  is  possible.  For 
example,  when  we  held  the  presidency  of  the  Council 
in  November  2008  and  it  fell  to  us  to  present  the 
annual  report  for  the  year  ending  31  July  2008,  my 
delegation  went  beyond  a  simple  description  of  the 
contents  of  the  report,  the  resolutions  and  presidential 
statements adopted, and the meetings held. Costa Rica 
introduced  a  substantive  innovation  by  speaking  in  its 
national capacity on the report being presented. 

That  innovation  was  part  of  our  efforts  to 
improve  the  working  methods  of  the  Council.  In  our 
view, the presentation of the annual report should give 
an  overview  that  evaluates  the  effectiveness  of  the 
measures  adopted  by  the  Council  and  the  positions  of 
its  members  at  the  time  of  adoption.  Ultimately,  it 
should be an opportunity to review the action taken by 
the Council,  as has been done this year  in the  chapter 
on the Sudan. 

With  regard  to  agenda  item  119  on  Security 
Council reform, Costa Rica wishes to acknowledge the 
interest  and  resolve  of  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  move  forward  on  this  crucial  issue,  and 
expresses  its  satisfaction  that  Ambassador  Tanin  will 
continue  to  lead  the  process.  Reform  needs  to  be 
undertaken  comprehensively  and  with 
flexibility, 
pragmatism  and  vision,  without  losing  sight  of  the 
overarching  goals  we  seek  to  achieve,  which  I  have 
already mentioned. 

As part of this process, we commend the holding 
of  an  open  debate  on  working  methods  in  April  this 
year  (see  S/PV.6300),  which  led  to  the  revision  of 
presidential  note  S/2006/507.  We  also  commend  the 
work 
on 
Documentation  and  Other  Procedural  Questions, 
chaired by Japan. However, we regret, as was stated by 
the representative of Switzerland on behalf of the small 
five,  that  no  chapter  on  implementation  mechanisms 
was included. 
Informal  Working  Group 
the 
of 
the  best  results  possible, 

We  also  welcome  the  increase  in  the  number  of 
open debates held by each of the monthly presidencies 
of  the  Council,  the  inclusion  of  a  chapter  on  working 
methods  in  the  report,  and  the  changes  —  announced 
last  week  by  the  United  Kingdom  at  the  informal 
meeting  it  held  as  President  of  the  Council  with 
members of the Assembly — to make debates less rigid 
and more streamlined. We support the British proposal 
to organize an exchange of ideas with the Department 
for Political Affairs and to make Council consultations 
more  spontaneous,  productive  and  real-time.  Costa 
Rice  urges  future  Council  Presidents  to  follow  this 
example. 

For Costa Rica, the forthcoming negotiations will 
be  key  for  hearing  and  weighing  up  arguments,  and 
arriving  at 
ideally  by 
consensus. The challenge before us — of reforming our 
bodies and, at the same time, our Organization so that 
it remains the political axis of global governance — is 
a stirring one from which we must not shy away. 
Ms.  Martina  (Ukraine):  At  the  outset,  let  me 

express  my  gratitude  to  the  President  of  the  Security 
Council  for  the  month  of  November,  the  Permanent 
Representative  of 
the  United  Kingdom,  for  his 
introduction  of  the  annual  report  of  the  Security 
Council to the General Assembly (A/65/2). 

Ukraine has always been an advocate of a strong 
United  Nations,  with  the  Security  Council  as  its 
principal 
primary 
responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security.  We 
therefore  welcome  new 
initiatives 
those 
conceived  through  creative,  out-of-the-box  thinking 
aimed at achieving this objective. 
My country considers preventive diplomacy to be 

an indispensable yet often overlooked instrument in the 
Security  Council’s  toolkit.  My  delegation  hopes  that 
the  horizon-scanning  exercise  introduced  earlier  this 
month  will  help  dust  off  this  tool  so  as  to  shift  the 
Council’s  focus  from  conflict  management  to  conflict 
prevention. We would like to hear more about the first 
scanning session, as well as whether it will become an 
established Council practice from now on. 

The period under review  was marked by an ever 
stronger  thematic  thrust  to  the  Council’s  agenda. This 
tendency,  in  our  view,  bodes  well  for  the  aim  of  a 
vibrant  United  Nations  by  capturing 
the  most 
challenging  and  far-reaching  trends  in  international 
entrusted  with 
developments, 
especially 
organ 
and 
the 
24 

10-63467 
its  constant  presence  on 


relations  and  bringing  them  to  the  Security  Council 
Chamber. If there is to be a shortlist of topics that fall 
under  the  thematic  category,  we  would  like  to  see  the 
traditional  issue  of  United  Nations  peacekeeping  and 
the  rather  recent  addition  to  the  Council’s  agenda  of 
maritime piracy at the top of that list. 

At  the  same  time,  we  must  be  cautious  not  to 
overburden  the  Security  Council  with  matters  of  a 
cross-cutting  nature,  which  ought  to  be  tackled  with 
added value in other United Nations forums. Here, the 
main criteria should be the respective prerogatives and 
comparative advantages of the various  United Nations 
bodies,  primarily  the  Security  Council  and  General 
Assembly. 

With regard to United Nations peacekeeping, we 
are  encouraged  by 
the 
Council’s  radar  screen  throughout  the  year,  with  this 
month  being  no  exception.  My  delegation  also  takes 
positive note of some proactive procedural innovations, 
such as videoconferencing with field commanders. Yet 
some  troop-contributing  countries  (TCCs),  especially 
those  which  are  middle-ranked,  may  notice  that  the 
participation of TCCs in these debates or consultations 
is either statistical or  confined to the top five, top 10, 
top  12  or  other  “top  something” 
format.  As 
peacekeeping is rightly said to be a global partnership, 
it  is  essential  for  the  Council  to  expand  its  outreach 
and  give  TCCs  a  stronger  voice  in  decision-making 
processes relating to peacekeeping operations. 

Much of what has been achieved by the Security 
Council  can  be  attributed  to  the  input  of  its  rotating 
members. We believe that, with the strong and unique 
composition  of  the  Council,  the  next  few  years  will 
present  an  excellent  opportunity  to  look  into  the  most 
effective  ways  of  channelling  and  maximizing  the 
benefits  of 
the  contributions  of  non-permanent 
members.  My  delegation  welcomes  the  newly  elected 
members of the Council and looks forward to progress 
in  this  important  area.  Ukraine,  for  its  part,  stands 
ready  to  contribute  to  this  process  both  outside  of  the 
Council,  by  sharing  innovative  ideas  and  relevant 
experience, and as a prospective member, should it be 
elected for the 2016-2017 term. 

In  the  meantime,  we  would  like  to  recall  the 
practical suggestion that the valuable but very much ad 
hoc  practice  by  which  the  regional  groups  are  briefed 
monthly by the non-permanent members they delegate 
to  the  Council  be  formalized.  This  would  provide 
A/65/PV.49
In 
this 
to  move 
encourage 
this  year 
forward.  We 
greater  insight  into  the  Council’s  daily  business,  the 
need for which is widely agreed upon by non-members. 

In  principle,  we  see  no  obstacles  preventing  the 
permanent members from engaging in such outreach as 
well,  so  as  to  share  the  benefits  of  their  uninterrupted 
institutional  memory. 
case,  occasional 
ambassadorial  exchanges  might  be  complemented  by 
more regular — at least monthly — interactions at the 
expert level. 
I  am  pleased  to  note  the  progress  that  has  been 

in  our  collective  undertaking 
achieved 
towards  the  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security 
Council. I am referring to the creation of a compilation 
document  which  gave  shape  to  the  structure  of  our 
ongoing  intergovernmental  negotiation  process.  The 
negotiation  text,  which  was  welcomed  and  supported 
by  Member  States  in  consensus,  reflects  a  general 
desire 
the 
overwhelming  resolve  of  Member  States  to  continue 
along the path of text-based negotiation and call on the 
chairman, Ambassador Tanin, to prepare a new revision 
of  the  text  that  better  reflects  the  possible  areas  of 
convergence  and  reduces  obvious  overlaps  in  the 
positions of Member States. 

Ukraine  considers  both  directions  of  reform  — 
enlargement of the Security Council and improvement 
of  its  working  methods  —  to  be  priorities. Achieving 
progress in at least one of these spheres will favour our 
long-term interests. 

We  support  the  increased  representation  in  that 
body  of  developing  countries  from Africa, Asia,  Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean.  We  also  believe  that  an 
overall enhancement of the composition of the Security 
Council  should  be  based  on  the  existing  regional 
approach.  Ukraine  is  open  to  discussing  all  possible 
options  and  new  creative  approaches  to  Security 
standpoint 
Council 
remains 
immutable:  any 
the  non-permanent 
membership  of  the  Security  Council  should  ensure  an 
enhanced  representation  of  the  Group  of  Eastern 
European  States  by  the  allocation  of  at  least  one 
additional non-permanent seat. In this regard, we insist 
on  the  preservation  of  the  full  version  of  the  relevant 
item  in  the  negotiation  text  as  an  inseparable  part  of 
the  Eastern  European  Group’s  position 
the 
negotiations going forward. 
Ukraine  remains  committed  to  engaging  actively 

and  constructively  in  an  open,  transparent,  inclusive 
reform.  Still,  our 
in 
increase 
in 
10-63467 

25 
to 
thank 
the  chairs  of 
A/65/PV.49 

and  comprehensive  Security  Council  reform  process 
with a view to achieving a solution that can garner the 
widest possible political acceptance of Member States. 
Mr. Tladi (South Africa): At the outset, allow me 

to  associate  myself  with  the  statements  delivered  by 
the Ambassadors of Egypt and Sierra Leone on behalf 
of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and  Group  of  African 
States,  respectively.  We  also  wish 
the 
Permanent Representative of Jamaica for his statement 
on behalf of the L.69 Group. 
We  thank  the  President  of  the  Security  Council 

for  the  report  (A/65/2)  outlining  the  activities  relating 
to  all  questions  considered  by  the  Security  Council 
under its mandate for the maintenance of international 
peace and security. 

My  delegation  welcomes  with  appreciation 
notable  improvements  in  the  working  methods  of  the 
Security  Council.  These  include  meetings  with  troop-
contributing  countries  ahead  of  Council  consultations, 
regular  briefings  by  envoys  of  the African  Union  and 
the  various  country-specific 
by 
configurations  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission. 
Regular  field  missions  of  the  Security  Council  to 
countries  on  its  agenda  and  the  outreach  of  the 
Working  Group  on  Peacekeeping  Operations  to  troop-
contributing  countries  are  encouraging  developments 
that  should  be  further  strengthened  and  enhanced. 
Additionally, an increasing number of formal meetings 
were  held  in  public,  providing  greater  transparency  to 
the Council’s work. 
Since  the  Security  Council  is  mandated  under 

Article 24 of the Charter to act on behalf of the entire 
membership  of the United Nations in the maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security,  South  Africa 
continues  to  call  for  greater  engagement  with  non-
members of the Security Council, especially those that 
are directly affected by or involved in specific conflict. 
We  are 
that 
document  S/2010/507  commits  the  President  of  the 
Security Council to provide 

“substantive  and  detailed  briefings  to  Member 
States 
these 
briefings should take place “shortly after informal 
consultations  of  the  whole”  (S/2010/507,  annex, 
para. 3). 

Our  delegation  views  this  as  a  positive  and 
concrete  commitment  by  the  Security  Council  to  be 
therefore  especially  pleased 
timely  manner”  and 
to  see 
in  a 
that 

action 
related 
Additionally, 
more  transparent  in  the  execution  of  its  mandate,  and 
we  encourage  the  general  membership  to  take  full 
advantage of these consultations. 

We  are  also  satisfied  with  the  informal  and 
innovative  measures  adopted  by  the  Security  Council 
over the past few years to engage with relevant parties 
to conflict  situations in an  interactive manner,  and  we 
support the further development of these practices. The 
Security  Council  must  adopt  creative  and  flexible 
practices if it is to be well informed about developing 
security situations and efficient in its decision-making 
processes. This will allow the Council to choose more 
appropriate  responses  from  the  range  of  tools  at  its 
disposal, as mandated by the Charter. 

The Security Council remains the primary global 
body  tasked  with  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security.  In  fulfilling  this  Charter  mandate, 
the Council cannot abdicate this role to smaller contact 
groups  that  are  unaccountable  to  the  wider  United 
Nations  membership.  Any 
to 
international peace and security should be addressed by 
the Council as a whole. 
its 

responsibility  by  failing 
long-standing 
conflicts,  such  as  that  in  the  Middle  East  and  the 
situation  in Western  Sahara. These  conflicts  are  being 
addressed  by 
the  Council  regularly  without  any 
meaningful  action.  Lack  of  action  by  the  Council  on 
these issues undermines its credibility. Accordingly, the 
Security  Council  must  redouble  its  efforts  to  deal 
squarely  with  the  situation  in  Somalia.  The  general 
population  in  these  sisterly  countries  deserves  greater 
and better attention from the international community. 

My  delegation  is  of  the  view  that  sustainable 
peace  can  be  achieved  only  by  addressing  both  the 
security  and  development  challenges  confronting 
countries  afflicted  by  conflict.  In  this  regard,  we 
welcome  the  increasing  attention  paid  to  thematic 
discussions  on  peacebuilding  and  the  nexus  between 
peacekeeping and peacebuilding. We reiterate our view 
that  peacebuilding  and  peacekeeping  are  not  linear 
processes  but  should  be  carried  out  in  an  integrated 
manner  to  ensure  the  sustainability  of  peacekeeping 
efforts. 

thematic  debates, 
including  on  the  protection  of  civilians  and  sexual 
violence against women in armed conflict. The United 
Nations  should  be  at  the  forefront  on  the  issue  of  the 
the  Council  cannot  shirk 
We  also  welcome  other 
to  address 
26 

10-63467 


protection of civilians, especially women and children 
in  conflicts,  lest  it  lose  its  credibility  in  the  eyes  of 
those vulnerable groups. 

South  Africa  further  welcomes  the  increased 
cooperation  between  the  Security  Council  and  the 
Peace and Security Council of the African Union. The 
establishment of the enhanced United Nations Office to 
the  African  Union  in  Addis  Ababa  is  a  positive  step 
towards  creating greater synergy between the Security 
Council  and 
the  Peace  and  Security  Council. 
Furthermore, the establishment of a joint task force to 
further  elaborate  strategic  and  operational 
issues 
between the two secretariats is welcomed. 

Despite  these  very  positive  developments,  South 
Africa  maintains  the  view  that  more  needs  to  be  done 
in terms of ensuring flexible and predictable financing 
for peacekeeping operations undertaken by the African 
Union on behalf of the international community. 
The reform of the Security Council remains a top 

priority.  We  believe  that  the  membership  should  rally 
towards  making  definitive  progress  during  the  sixty-
fifth  session  of  the  General  Assembly  and  achieving 
tangible outcomes. 

We  welcome  the  reappointment  of  Ambassador 
Tanin  as  facilitator  of  the  reform  process,  and  we 
encourage  him  to  persist  in  his  intention  to  structure 
concrete,  text-based  negotiations  around  the  five  key 
issues,  during  which  members  will  be  encouraged  to 
undertake  more  informal  drafting  exercises,  as  he 
proclaimed  in  the  last  round.  While  the  last  rounds 
registered  limited  progress,  we  believe  that  important 
and  irreversible  strides  have  been  made  to  place  us 
firmly  on  a 
text-based 
negotiations.  There  is  no  going  back  into  the  open-
ended  working  group  mode  of  endless  consultations. 
The  time  for  restating  and  rehashing  well-known 
positions  is  now  truly  over.  Now  is  the  time  for 
meaningful  give-and-take  negotiations,  with  a  firm 
view to concluding them and achieve the vision of our 
leaders,  as  contained  in  the  2005  World  Summit 
Outcome document (resolution 60/1). 

For this to happen, we believe that there are three 
conditions  that  must  be  met.  First,  we  require  a 
streamlined  text  that  identifies,  or  at  least  begins  to 
identify, areas of convergence. We believe that the first 
the 
step 
identification 
and 
redundancies,  which  are  an  unfortunate  characteristic 
in  preparing  such  a 
deletion 
text  should  be 
of 
repetition 
steady  course 
towards 
and 
A/65/PV.49
in 
the 
text  with 
to  participate 
real  options  as 
the  General  Assembly  and 
of  the  current  text.  Secondly,  we  need  to  identify  and 
discard  those  proposals  that  offer  no  prospect  of 
providing an outcome. And finally, we need to identify 
and  consolidate  those  proposals  that  offer  the  best 
prospect for providing a solution. 

We  remain  firm  in  our  view  that  the  outcome  of 
the process as outlined above would lead us to produce 
a 
requested  by  an 
overwhelming  majority  of  the  membership  of  the 
United Nations in their letter of 23 December 2009. It 
is our firm view that progress could be achieved based 
on  a  convergence  of  views  that  fundamental  reforms 
would require the expansion of the Security Council in 
both  categories,  while  building  on  the  convergence  of 
views  on  working  methods  and  on  the  relationship 
between 
the  Security 
Council.  Similarly, 
is  general  support  for 
increasing the size of the Council. 

In  conclusion,  my  delegation  stands  ready  to 
continue 
intergovernmental 
negotiations,  which  should  lead  to  a  transformed, 
democratic, 
representative,  accountable  and  more 
credible Security Council. With the necessary political 
will, the sixty-fifth session could deliver on this vision. 
Mr.  Husain  (Canada):  I  thank  the  President  of 

the  General  Assembly  for  having  convened 
this 
important  meeting.  I  also  thank  the  President  of  the 
Security Council for having presented the annual report 
of the Security Council (A/65/2). 

The  report  makes  it  clear  that  a  wide  variety  of 
complex  and  important  issues,  both  geographic  and 
thematic, that continue to be of concern and relevance 
to  the  general  membership  of  the  United  Nations 
remain on the Council’s agenda. Canada welcomes the 
opportunity to share its views on these  issues,  as well 
as on discussions regarding Security Council reform. 

The  past  year  witnessed  a  number  of  critical 
issues that required urgent action by the Council. Only 
10  months  ago,  a  devastating  earthquake  hit  Haiti, 
gravely  affecting  the  people  and  the  United  Nations 
Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH). The scale 
of the destruction required the international community 
to  come 
in 
reconstruction  as  quickly  as  possible.  The  Council 
played  its  part  by  ensuring  that  MINUSTAH  was 
sufficiently bolstered to provide security and assistance 
to the Haitian Government in the immediate aftermath. 
Much work  remains to be  done, however, and Canada 
relief  and  aid 
there 
together 
to  bring 
10-63467 

27 
in 
consulting 

to  broaden  support 
A/65/PV.49 

encourages  the  Council  and  the  broader  international 
community to continue providing much-needed support 
to the people of Haiti. 

Canada welcomes the information provided in the 
report on the Council’s activities with respect to other 
critical  geographic  areas,  including  the  situations  in 
Afghanistan and the Middle East, and peace operations 
in  a  number  of  African  countries  such  as  the  Sudan, 
Somalia and the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 
The  report  of  the  Council  also  outlines  the 

troop-contributing 
progress  made 
countries  (TCCs)  and  police-contributing  countries 
(PCCs).  Canada  strongly  supports  this  outreach  to 
TCCs and PCCs, as effective and timely consultations 
are  essential 
in  order 
for 
peacekeeping operations. 

Given the importance of these operations, Canada 
hosted  a  series  of  informal  discussions  on  different 
aspects of peace operations. Canada urges the Council 
to  continue  to  enhance  its  consultations,  both  on 
specific  mandates,  as  well  as  on  broader  thematic 
peacekeeping  issues,  with  the  broader  United  Nations 
community.  Canada  will  continue  to  promote  such 
dialogue,  in  particular  in  its  role  as  chair  of  the 
Working  Group  of 
the  Special  Committee  on 
Peacekeeping Operations. 
The  past  year  has  also  been  important  with 

respect 
the 
increased  interaction  between  the  Council  and  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  (PBC).  As  Chair  of  the 
Sierra Leone configuration, Canada has appreciated the 
mutually reinforcing role that the Council and the PBC 
can play in advancing peacebuilding in a post-conflict 
country.  The  lessons  learned  to  date  with  respect  to 
peacebuilding  will  be  all  the  more  relevant  as  more 
countries  come  on  to  the  PBC  agenda.  I  would 
therefore encourage the Council to engage even further 
with  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  in  the  year  to 
come. 
in 

improving 
the  Council, 
including the revision of presidential note S/2006/507. 
However,  considerable  work 
to 
enhance the transparency of the Council. For example,  

to  peacebuilding.  Canada  welcomes 
the  working  methods  of 
the  progress  made 
Canada  welcomes 
is  still  required 
in 
increase 
transparent 
while  the  report  of  the  Security  Council  details  the 
scope of the actions taken by the Council, it still falls 
short  of  providing  analysis  of  how  and  why  those 
decisions were made. Although producing such a report 
may  be  difficult,  it  would  be  a  tangible  step  towards 
improving both the transparency and accountability of 
the Security Council to the broader membership. 
(spoke in French) 
Canada’s  position  on  Security  Council  reform  is 

that 
well  known.  My  country  strongly  believes 
reform 
democratic,  accountable  and 
requires  an 
the  number  of  elected, 
non-permanent  members. An  expansion  in  the  number 
of  elected  members  would  allow 
for  a  better 
representation  of  all  the  world’s  regions  —  most 
especially those that have long been underrepresented, 
such  as  Africa  —  and  would  afford  Member  States 
greater opportunities to serve on the Council at regular 
intervals. 

Yet, even with an increased number of seats, the 
Security Council must remain of a reasonable size that 
would  allow  it  to  take  swift  and  effective  action.  In 
addition,  serious  consideration  needs  to  be  given  to 
improving  its  working  methods  and  to  placing  some 
restrictions  on  the  use  of  the  veto,  in  particular  on 
issues  related  to  crimes  against  humanity,  war  crimes 
or genocide. 

At the same time, Canada recognizes that neither 
its position nor any other traditional position enjoys the 
very  broad  support  of  the  Assembly  that  will  be 
required for such an amendment, and it is unlikely that 
they  will  in  the  near  future.  For  that  reason,  Canada 
urges all States to look towards potential compromises. 
For  example,  in  our  country’s  view,  the  intermediate 
option  put  forward  by  Colombia  and  Italy  attempts  to 
bridge  the  various  positions  and  therefore  may  form 
the basis of consensus. 

There  may  be  other  approaches  that  are  possible 
as  well.  Canada  remains  open  to  considering  and 
discussing 
the 
negotiations  to  work  together  to  find  a  compromise 
solution  that  is  in  the  clear  interest  of  all  States 
Members of the United Nations. 



them,  and  urges  all  parties 
  The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m. 
to 
28 

10-63467 
