
A/66/PV.32
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

32nd plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 11 October 2011, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 
Assembly  decision  34/401,  explanations  of  vote  are 
limited to 10 minutes. 

Before  we  take  action  on  the  recommendation 
contained  in  the  report,  I  should  like  to  inform 
representatives  that  we  are  going  to  proceed  to  take  a 
decision in the same manner as in the Fifth Committee. 

The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  the 
draft  resolution  recommended  by  the  Fifth  Committee 
in  paragraph  6  of  its  report.  The  Committee  adopted 
the draft resolution, entitled “Scale of assessments for 
the  apportionment  of  the  expenses  of  the  United 
Nations:  requests  under  Article  19  of  the  Charter”, 
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do the same? 

The  draft  resolution  was  adopted  (resolution 
66/4).
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
its 

Assembly  has 
thus  concluded 
consideration of agenda item 138. 
this  stage  of 

Agenda items 63 and 13 
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: progress 
in implementation and international support 
  (a)  New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 

progress in implementation and  
international support 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/66/202) 











In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Zinsou 
(Benin), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.  



It was so decided.  
The  Acting  President
Agenda item 138 (continued) 
Scale of assessments for the apportionment of the 
expenses of the United Nations 
  Report of the Fifth Committee (A/66/492) 

The Acting President (spoke in French): If there 

is no proposal under rule 66 of the rules of procedure, I 
shall  take  it  that  the Assembly  decides  not  to  discuss 
the report of the Fifth Committee that is before it. 

in  French): 

Statements will therefore be limited to explanations of 
vote.  The  positions  of  delegations  regarding 
the 
recommendation  of  the  Fifth  Committee  have  been 
made  clear  in  the  Committee  and  are  reflected  in  the 
relevant official records. 
May I remind members that, under paragraph 7 of 

decision  34/401,  the  General  Assembly  agreed  that 
when the same draft resolution is considered in a Main 
Committee and in plenary meeting a delegation should, 
as far as possible, explain its vote only once, either in 
the  Committee  or  in  the  plenary  meeting,  unless  that 
delegation’s  vote  in  plenary  meeting  is  different  from 
its  vote 
the  Committee.  May  I  also  remind 
delegations  that,  also  in  accordance  with  General 
(spoke 
in 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-53871 (E) 
*1153871* 

A/66/PV.32 

  (b)  Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 





and 
and 
level, 
resources, 
continental 
mobilizing 
the  New  Partnership 
peace and sustainable development in Africa 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/66/214) 

2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/66/169) 

The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  In  his 

report  on 
for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  (A/66/202),  the  Secretary-
General  stresses  the  progress  that  African  countries 
have  made  in  implementing  what  we  can  rightly  call 
Africa’s own vision for its development. Appropriately, 
the report coincides with NEPAD’s tenth anniversary. 
NEPAD’s  objectives  are  by  now  well  known: 

implementing  priority  programmes  and  projects  at  the 
strengthening 
regional 
partnerships, 
seeking 
cooperation efforts in order to advance development in 
Africa,  creating  a  favourable  environment  for  private 
sector  development,  creating  links  among  institutions, 
and using existing technical resources in support of the 
NEPAD agenda. 
Today  we  can  confirm  that  the  New  Partnership 

for  Africa’s  Development 
is  making  encouraging 
progress  in  many  areas  —  particularly  peace  and 
security,  democracy 
the 
economy — 
that  are  foundation  stones  for  new 
national,  regional  and  continental  efforts,  as  are 
partnerships  with  the  international  community.  The 
programme has laid a foundation for Africa’s recovery 
in  all  areas  —  health,  infrastructure,  agriculture  and 
food  security  —  and 
international 
cooperation for the development of the continent. 

But  many  challenges  remain  to  be  addressed, 
primarily  through  the  efforts  of  African  countries  — 
since NEPAD should be implemented through national 
programmes  adopted  by  the  countries  themselves  — 
but  also  with 
international 
community. The debate we will begin today focuses on 
this. 
Mr.  Kleib  (Indonesia):  I  have  the  privilege  to 

address 
the 
10 member  countries  of  the  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian Nations (ASEAN). Since this is the first time for 
ASEAN  as  a  group  to  deliver  its  statement  in  the 
plenary  at  this  session,  I  wish  to  offer  on  ASEAN’s 
the  General  Assembly  on  behalf  of 
revitalization  of 
the  support  of 
for 
renewed 
the 
through 
through  you,  Sir, 
friendship  with  Africa 
behalf  our  congratulations 
to 
Ambassador  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  on  his 
assumption  of  the  presidency  of  the  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-sixth  session.  We  are  committed  to  supporting 
and cooperating with the presidency during this session 
in order to ensure its successful conclusion. 

I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General 
for  his  comprehensive  reports  under  agenda  items  63 
(A/66/202 and A/66/214) and 13 (A/66/169). 

Striking events and important changes have taken 
place all over the world in the last few years. Africa is 
one  of  the  places  where  we  have  witnessed  positive 
shifts,  but  at  the  same  time  difficult  humanitarian 
situations.  
Although domestic leadership is a key to Africa’s 

development,  the  international  community  plays  an 
important  role  in  supporting  their  efforts.  ASEAN 
affirms its commitment to continue building synergies 
and 
the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  and 
the  New  Asian-African  Strategic  Partnership  adopted 
by all leaders of Asian and African countries in 2005. 

In  conjunction  with  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the 
adoption  of  NEPAD,  we  need  to  think  afresh  how 
resources  and  creative  energies  could  be  better 
channelled. Let us explore opportunities to build on the 
progress made in implementing NEPAD projects. More 
importantly,  since  people  are  a  country’s  most 
important  asset,  we  should  also  focus  on  capacity-
building  and  human  resource  development  in  Africa. 
As  emphasized  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report,  the 
tenth  anniversary  of  NEPAD  should  be  viewed  as  a 
turning  point  from  business  as  usual  towards  policy 
actions and results. 
Action  is  vital,  considering  that  one  of  the 

distressing  facts  coinciding  with  NEPAD’s 
tenth 
anniversary  is  uneven  progress  on  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  where  Africa  lags  far 
behind  other  regions.  More  can  be  done  to  support 
implementation of the eight MDGs.  

On  trade,  although  there  has  been  virtually  no 
progress  on  the  conclusion  of  the  Doha  Round, 
ASEAN  and  NEPAD  have  a  common  interest  in 
upholding  the  primacy  of  the  multilateral  trading 
system. We should continue to renew our commitment 
to finding solutions for common interests and concerns 
in this negotiation process.  
2 

11-53871 
as 
instrument 
ASEAN  views 
an 


the  African  Peer  Review 

Mechanism 
innovative 
for 
strengthening  Africa’s  position  for  advancing  good 
governance  and  socio-economic  development.  We  are 
pleased  to  hear  that  30  countries  have  joined  the 
Mechanism,  and  we  would  like  to  encourage  more 
African  countries  to  join.  ASEAN  therefore  urges 
strategic partners to lend their support to this process. 

Our  discussion  this  year  is  taking  place  against 
the  backdrop  of  the  devastating  impact  of  climate 
change,  especially  in  East  Africa  and  the  Horn  of 
Africa.  It  is  therefore  important  that  our  work  in  the 
plenary here contribute to the larger goal of reaching a 
successful  outcome  of  the  United  Nations  Climate 
Change  Conference  in  Durban  and  of  the  preparation 
for  the  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  next 
year. 

Climate  change  also  has  an  impact  on  health  in 
Africa.  The  2001  Third  Assessment  Report  of  the 
Intergovernmental  Panel  on  Climate  Change  showed 
that  with  even  a  small  rise  in  temperature  the  risk  of 
malaria transmission would be greatly increased. While 
progress  has  been  made  towards  meeting  the  goal  of 
malaria control, and the recorded cases and deaths due 
to  malaria  in African  countries  have  fallen  by  50  per 
cent,  malaria  continues  to  affect  the  more  vulnerable, 
and  it  remains  a  leading  killer  of  children  under  five 
years old. 

ASEAN and Africa share the same concern on the 
need  to  combat  malaria.  ASEAN  urges  all  countries 
and development partners to show their political will in 
fighting  this  infectious  disease.  Furthermore,  ASEAN 
supports  the  recommendations  in  the  global  plan  for 
artemisinin resistance containment, not only to increase 
people’s  awareness  of  this  risk  but  also  to  preserve 
artemisinin-based combination therapies as an effective 
treatment  for  falciparum  malaria.  There  is  also  an 
urgent  need  to  build  a  human  network  for  infectious 
disease  control  through  promoting  human  resources 
and capacity-building 

ASEAN believes that in order to achieve stability 
and security and spur legitimate economic activity it is 
absolutely  vital 
take 
effective  and  sustained  measures  against  the  many 
challenges they face, including maritime security, drug 
trafficking, organized crime, youth unemployment and 
extreme  poverty,  which  are  all  often  mutually 
reinforcing. 
the  parties  concerned 
that 
A/66/PV.32
on 
youth 
is 
to 
including 
ASEAN  supports  all 

ASEAN  emphasizes  the  importance  of  post-
conflict  peacebuilding  strategies  when  dealing  with 
countries emerging from conflict in the region. To that 
end, ASEAN reaffirms its commitment to the role and 
work  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  (PBC).  In 
ASEAN’S  view,  the  promotion  of  the  peacebuilding 
agenda  in  those  countries  will  contribute  not  only  to 
the  creation  of  environments  conducive 
the 
attainment  of  durable  peace  but  also  to  sustainable 
development in Africa.  

initiatives  focusing  on 
enhancing  youth  employment,  as  many  young  people 
engage  in  illicit  activities  because  of  poverty  and 
unemployment.  We  believe  that  the  PBC  can  assist 
to  encourage  and  support  home-grown 
countries 
programmes, 
employment, 
vocational training for youth and education. 

ASEAN  also  commends  the  role  and  work  of 
regional  and  subregional  organizations,  such  as  the 
African Union, NEPAD and the Economic Community 
of  West  African  States,  in  assisting  countries  in  the 
region, in particular those under the PBC agenda. 
Finally,  ASEAN  countries  stress  the  importance 

for  the  United  Nations,  development  partners  and  the 
international community to continue to strengthen their 
work  and  focus  on  assisting African  countries.  While 
we  believe 
important,  we  also 
recognize  the  need  for  effective,  timely  decision-
making and implementable results. 
Mr.  Kamau  (Kenya):  On  behalf  of  the  African 

States, I wish to express our gratitude to the Secretary-
General  for  his  reports  on  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s Development (NEPAD), including on progress 
in implementation and international support (A/66/202) 
and  on  the  causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of 
durable  peace  and  sustainable  development  in  Africa 
(A/66/214), and his report on the Decade to Roll Back 
Malaria in Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa 
(A/66/169).  We  also  thank  both  traditional  and  new 
development partners for their support for the NEPAD 
programmes and projects. 

As we celebrate the tenth anniversary of NEPAD 
this year, we are all reminded of the need to strengthen 
governance  structures  and  institutions,  deepen  the 
democratic  ethos,  and  reform  our  investment  climate 
and  make  it  business-friendly  in  order  to  increase  our 
collective  competitiveness.  Enhancing  the  quality  of 
for  higher 
educational 
institutions,  particularly 
inclusiveness 
11-53871 

3 
into 
the 

global 
capital 
transformation  and 
Partnerships  with  both 
A/66/PV.32 

education,  and  making  them  practical  is  also  of  the 
utmost importance. 

The African Group expects that our development 
partners  will  renew  their  political  commitment  to 
ensure meaningful support to programmes and projects 
to  meet Africa’s  development  needs.  The  Group  is  of 
the opinion that an enabling international environment 
is indispensable. Our priorities are many, but the most 
urgent  ones  include  industrialization,  infrastructure 
development,  agricultural 
the 
building  of  human  capital,  as  well  as,  of  course,  the 
fundamental  aspects  related  to  trade,  which  include 
market  access  and  the  development  of  a  modern 
service infrastructure. 

traditional  and  new 
development partners should therefore seek to integrate 
economy 
Africa 
through 
infrastructure  and 
industrialization,  diversification, 
human 
development. 
Furthermore, 
a 
development  reorientation  from  the  export  of  primary 
products to manufactured or processed goods is urgent 
and  must  be  pursued.  NEPAD  recognizes  the  critical 
role  of  the  private  sector,  both  domestic  and  foreign-
owned, as the continent’s engine of economic growth.  

Africa continues to be plagued by long-term and, 
in  some  cases,  interrelated  crises,  including  violent 
conflicts  that  have  caused  immense  human  suffering. 
In  the  light  of  the  serious  implications  of  conflict  for 
several aspects of the development of Africa, initiatives 
from peacebuilding to post-conflict reconstruction and 
development  have  been 
the 
continent. 

A  central  theme  in  the  African  Union/NEPAD 
agenda  is  bringing  together  the  issues  of  peace  and 
security,  governance  and  constitutionalism,  economic 
development, and international partnerships — and the 
way those partnerships drive governance and economic 
development.  African  countries  will  continue  to  pay 
special attention to those matters. 

Trade  is  an  important  tool  for  economic  growth 
and  development.  However,  Africa’s  share  of  global 
trade remains negligible. Africa accounts for only 3 per 
cent  of  world 
in  global 
manufactured  exports  is  close  to  zero.  The  African 
Group  has  put  in  place  measures  aimed  at  increasing 
the  volume  of  intraregional  trade  throughout  the 
continent through regional blocs.  
trade,  while 
throughout 
its  share 
launched 
to 
our 
and 
enhance 
information 
participation 

On  the  same  note,  Africa  wants  to  improve  its 
external  trade  with  all  its  partners.  However,  the 
faltering  process  in  concluding  the  Doha  Round  is 
impeding  Africa’s  market  access  to  trade.  We  call  on 
all  parties  to  show  flexibility  and  conclude  the  trade 
talks  as  a  matter  of  urgency.  Aid  for  trade  should  be 
improve  our  supply-side 
further  emphasized 
and 
constraints 
in 
international trade. 

Foreign direct investment  flows to Africa should 
also target labour-intensive infrastructure development 
projects.  They  should  include  transfer  of  knowledge 
and technology and should build up the service sector, 
such  as  banking,  insurance  and  medicine,  and  the 
industrial  sector,  such  as  aeronautical  and  automotive 
components, 
communications 
technology, off-shore food processing, et cetera. 

We  urge  development  partners  to  take  urgent 
collective actions to fulfil all their aid commitments to 
Africa,  as  official  development  assistance  contributes 
to  economic  growth  in  important  ways. The  continent 
urges  partners  to  fulfil  their  commitments  to  double 
official  development  assistance  to  Africa  to  support 
Africa’s  development.  I  also  wish  to  point  out  that 
to 
emphasis  should  shift  from  aid  effectiveness 
development  effectiveness, 
to  better  measure 
the 
impact  of  the  resources  that  have  been  contributed  to 
Africa. 

With  regard  to  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs),  Africa  has  made  significant  progress. 
However, the continent remains off-track on the way to 
achieving  some  of  the  MDGs  by  2015.  Concerns 
remain  with  regard  to  quality  education,  infant  and 
maternal  health,  malnutrition,  safe  drinking  water  and 
basic sanitation. Social protection programmes and job 
creation  are  required  to  reduce  poverty  and  contribute 
to the achievement of the MDGs as well. 

The role of the NEPAD Agency as a planning unit 
is  to  facilitate  and  coordinate  the  implementation  of 
regional 
the 
mobilization  of  resources  for  the  implementation  of 
Africa’s  priority  programmes  and  projects.  It  remains 
central  to  the  collective  manner  in  which  the African 
Union  and Africa  will  be  doing  business  collectively. 
The  role  of  the  NEPAD  Agency  in  conducting  and 
coordinating  research  and  in  knowledge  management 
will  create  an  enabling  environment  to  help  Africa 
achieve the food security, agricultural development and 
continental  programmes 
and 
and 
4 

11-53871 
to 
follow  up  on 


infrastructure  expansion  —  all,  we  hope,  in  the  next 
5 to 10 years. 

In that regard, the African Group looks forward to 
constructive  engagements  during 
the  forthcoming 
informal  consultations  on  the  need  to  establish  a 
monitoring  mechanism 
all 
commitments  related  to  Africa’s  development  needs. 
With  the  mechanism  in  place,  the  Group  hopes  that 
commitments  by  both  African  Governments  and  their 
development  partners  will  be  reviewed  and  enhanced, 
possibly by the beginning  of the sixty-seventh session 
of the General Assembly. 

Malaria  infects  over  170  million  Africans  each 
year,  crippling  economic  growth  and  undermining  the 
growth of gross domestic product (GDP), to the tune of 
a  2  per  cent  loss  in  growth  every  year.  In  the African 
Leaders  Malaria Alliance  (ALMA)  heads  of  State  and 
Government are determined to remove that debilitating 
impediment  to  progress  once  and  for  all. As  members 
of the African Union and of ALMA, heads of State and 
Government  pledged  to  end  the  scourge  of  malaria. 
Those efforts have the potential to bear fruit  and save 
at  least  $12  billion  per  annum  in  direct  costs,  freeing 
up much needed resources for implementation, service 
delivery and acceleration of development. 

It  is  encouraging  to  know  that  in  high-burden 
African  countries  that  have  achieved  high  rates  in 
providing  their  populations  with  insecticide-treated 
nets  and  treatment  programmes,  recorded  cases  and 
deaths due to malaria have fallen by 50 per cent. This 
has  greatly  supported  the  achievement  of  MDG  6  and 
has  helped 
incidence  of  malaria 
throughout the continent. In addition, the findings that 
the  lives  of  more  than  750  million  children  across 
34 malaria-endemic African countries have been saved 
through vector control have been very encouraging. 

In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  state  that  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  — 
the Rio+20 Summit — to be held in June next year in 
Brazil constitutes an important opportunity to reaffirm 
and renew political commitment to implement previous 
decisions and undertakings in accordance with the Rio 
Declaration,  Agenda  21,  the  Johannesburg  Plan  of 
Implementation and all of the relevant outcomes of the 
major  conferences  and 
sustainable 
development.  The  Conference  must  therefore  aim  to 
achieve  substantive  progress  on  its  objectives  and 
themes.  
summits  on 
to  reverse 
the 
A/66/PV.32

In that regard, the African Group is committed to 
working  with  all  partners  and  stakeholders  to  take 
forward the needed action to ensure the success of the 
Conference.  Accordingly,  the  continent  is  already 
holding consultative meetings in line with the Malabo 
Declaration  adopted  by 
the  heads  of  State  and 
Government  of  the  African  Union  in  June.  We  will 
work  towards  the  formulation  of  a  common  position 
during  the  forthcoming  Africa  regional  preparatory 
conference  on  Rio+20,  scheduled  to  take  place  at  the 
African  Union  headquarters  in  October.  The  African 
Group  wishes  to  reiterate  that  the  objectives  and 
themes of the Conference are mutually supportive and 
must  be  pursued  in  a  comprehensive  and  integrated 
manner. 
Mr.  Talbot  (Guyana):  In  today’s  debate  on  the 

New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), I 
have the honour, on behalf of the member States of the 
Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM),  to  renew  our 
solidarity  and  partnership  in  the  cause  of  Africa’s 
progress.  

I wish to begin by paying tribute on behalf of our 
Community to the life  and memory of a distinguished 
daughter  of  Africa: 
the  noted  environmentalist, 
women’s  activist  and  Nobel  laureate Wangari  Maathai 
of Kenya, whose passing is a loss not only to her native 
home,  but  to  Africa  and  to  the  world.  Ms.  Wangari 
served the cause of peace and sustainable development 
as a champion for the downtrodden. 

CARICOM  also  extends  sincere  congratulations 
to  the  three  joint  recipients  of  the  2011  Nobel  Peace 
Prize,  two  of  them  from  Africa:  Her  Excellency 
Mrs. Ellen  Johnson-Sirleaf,  President  of  Liberia,  her 
compatriot  Ms.  Leymah  Gbowee  and  Ms.  Tawakkul 
Karman of Yemen. They have distinguished themselves 
as  a  potent  force  for  change  in  the  face  of  towering 
odds.  We  hope  that  women  everywhere  will  take 
courage and inspiration from that development. 

the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development,  CARICOM 
reaffirms  its  strong  support  for  NEPAD.  The  New 
Partnership 
for 
socio-economic  advancement  for  the  benefit  of  the 
more  than  one  billion  people  who  call  the  continent 
home.  CARICOM’s  support  for  NEPAD  is  based  on 
fundamental 
for  Africa’s  ownership  and 
leadership  of 
its  own  development  process.  The 
success of NEPAD will contribute to enabling Africans 
tenth  anniversary  year  of 
represents  Africa’s 
blueprint 
respect 
this 
In 
11-53871 

5 

A/66/PV.32 

to  fulfil  the  promise  of  their  potential  and  Africa  to 
assume its rightful place in the global economy. 

Much has changed on the continent since our last 
debate  on  these  issues,  during  the  sixty-fifth  session 
(see A/65/PV.30  and A/65/PV.31).  We  have  witnessed 
momentous  developments  in  North  Africa  and  the 
Middle  East  as  people  have  sought  to  give  renewed 
expression to their quest for higher standards of life in 
larger  freedom.  Those  developments  have  doubtless 
begun  to  change  the  face  of Africa. The  role  of  youth 
in  that  context  will  be  instructive  for  future  policy  in 
Africa,  where  on  average  some  60  per  cent  of  the 
population  is  under  the  age  of  25.  The  Secretary-
General has therefore rightly called attention to issues 
pertaining to youth, education and employment on the 
continent. 
The  past  year  has  also  seen  the  birth  of  a  new 

African  State, 
the  Republic  of  South  Sudan. 
CARICOM  countries  welcome  the  Republic  of  South 
Sudan  into  the  community  of  independent  States  and 
offer  our  support  to  the  South  Sudanese  people  and 
Government  as  they  embark  on  building  the  new 
Republic. The actions taken so far by the international 
community  in  support  of  that  country  also  enjoy  the 
appreciation  of  our  Community. At  the  same  time,  we 
recognize  that  several  issues  remain  to  be  resolved 
between  South  Sudan  and  the  Republic  of  the  Sudan. 
We  urge  that  they  be  settled  peacefully  through 
negotiations. 

On  another  front,  CARICOM  has  been  deeply 
troubled by the havoc being wreaked on human life as 
a  result  of  the  devastating  famine  that  has  struck  the 
Horn  of Africa. A  number  of  our  member  States  have 
made 
the  humanitarian 
response  effort.  We  urge  the  international  community 
to  ensure  that  life-giving  support  is  extended  to  all 
affected populations throughout the region. 

As  the  Secretary-General’s  report  attests,  recent 
developments  in  Africa  point  to  the  promise  and  the 
pitfalls that lie ahead for the region. The continent has 
recorded 
an 
improvement 
in  socio-economic  and  development 
indicators.  At  the  same  time,  the  number  of  people 
living  in  extreme  poverty  has  increased.  Africa  faces 
the greatest  risk in all the  developing world of falling 
short 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  will  therefore  necessarily 
tangible  contributions 
the  achievement  of 
positive 
to 
economic 
growth 
and 
in 
the 
remain  a  key  focus  for  development  efforts  over  the 
next five years.  

United  Nations  efforts  in  conflict  prevention, 
peacekeeping and peacebuilding also remain critical to 
Africa’s  quest  for  durable  peace  and  sustainable 
development. We  welcome  the  focus  in  this  regard  on 
preventive  diplomacy.  CARICOM  supports  continued 
active engagement in these areas so that the spectre of 
conflict  and  division  will  yield  to  a  new  paradigm 
where the vast resources of its many great people will 
be  deployed  in  service  of  their  welfare  and  to  lay  the 
foundations for enduring progress.  

The successes recorded in recent years in United 
Nations  peacekeeping  in Africa  and  the  emergence  of 
more African  countries  from  conflict  are  encouraging 
signs,  although  recovery  in  some  instances  is  fragile 
and the risk of relapse is still very present. These facts 
underscore 
importance  of  United  Nations 
peacebuilding efforts and the imperative of creating the 
necessary  conditions  both  inside  and  outside  the 
continent for those efforts to prosper. 

In  many  ways,  therefore,  Africa  represents  a 
beacon of opportunity for international cooperation and 
partnership.  The  international  community  has  to  stay 
the course, create a favourable economic environment, 
honour  its  commitments  and  expand  opportunities 
Africa’s  trade.  Developed  countries  must  fulfil  their 
commitments to Africa.  

At  the  same  time,  South-South  cooperation  and 
partnerships  are  an  integral  part  of  the  international 
response and are fundamentally altering the continent’s 
economic relationships with the rest of the world. The 
Caribbean  Community  stands  ready  as  a  partner  with 
Africa 
the 
political, economic, social, environmental and cultural 
domains. 

Our  two  regions  face  a  number  of  challenges  in 
common, not least in the area of health. The scourge of 
HIV/AIDS continues to seriously affect our respective 
populations. This unwelcome reality is nevertheless an 
opportunity  for  collaboration  and  the  exchange  of 
experience  and  best  practices.  CARICOM  is  grateful 
for  the  support  extended  by  African  countries  to  the 
CARICOM  initiative  on  the  prevention  and  control  of 
non-communicable  diseases,  which  resulted  in  the 
adoption a Political Declaration (resolution 66/2) at the 
High-level  Meeting  on  the  Prevention  and  Control  of 
Non-Communicable  Diseases.  The  Declaration 
to  advance  our  mutual  objectives 
in 
6 

11-53871 


provides  a  framework  for  concerted  action  by  the 
international community on this issue. CARICOM also 
strongly  supports  efforts  to  roll  back  malaria  on  the 
continent and thereby enhance the lives and livelihoods 
of over 170 million Africans. 
CARICOM  takes  note  of  the  progress  recorded 

under 
the  Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture 
Development  Programme  in  the  priority  areas  of 
agriculture and food security, as well as of the actions 
taken  in  respect  of  the  development  of  infrastructure, 
transport  and  energy.  The  growth  of  agriculture  is 
critical to Africa’s development prospects. CARICOM 
strongly  supports  and  encourages  the  work  currently 
under way to promote an African green revolution with 
a view to ensuring that Africa will be self-sufficient in 
food by 2015. We urge the international community to 
continue and strengthen its support for Africa’s efforts 
to realize these objectives. 

The  challenge  posed  by  climate  change  is  a  test 
of our common future. Africa will host the seventeenth 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
in 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
November 
and 
comprehensive  global  response  to  the  threat  posed  by 
climate  change  is  especially  urgent  for  the  many 
countries  in  Africa,  the  Caribbean,  the  Pacific  and 
elsewhere  that  are  on  the  frontlines  of  this  looming 
catastrophe.  We  call  for  an  urgent  scaling-up  of 
international  action  to  ensure  the  delivery  of  credible 
results  when  the  Conference  meets  in  Durban,  South 
Africa. 

CARICOM  is  ever  mindful  of  the  complex 
interrelationships  between  governance,  peace  and 
development. The Caribbean Community promotes and 
encourages  the  adherence  to  democratic  principles, 
good governance, the rule of law and the protection of 
human  rights.  We  support  the  ongoing  efforts  of 
African  countries  to  improve  economic  and  political 
governance  and  to  strengthen  mechanisms  for  the 
participation, 
inclusion  and  empowerment  of  all 
segments of African society.  

The instrumental role of the African Peer Review 
Mechanism in these efforts is worthy of note, as is the 
support  of 
the 
30 African  countries  that  have  so  far  subscribed  to  it. 
CARICOM  also  believes  that  focused  efforts  must 
continue  to  be  made  to  eliminate  the  combination  of 
the  Mechanism  as  reflected  by 
and  December.  An 
ambitious 
A/66/PV.32
its  way  forward, 
internal and external factors that engender conflict and 
stymie development. 

The African  continent,  which  served  as  a  cradle 
of  ancient  civilization  and  the  birthplace  of  the  Arab 
Spring,  now  beckons  as  a  new  frontier  of  human 
progress.  As  Africa  charts 
the 
continued  support  of  the  international  community 
remains vital to its success. But that success will not be 
Africa’s  alone;  the  fruits  of  progress  on  the  continent 
will  inevitably  contribute  to  progress  in  other  parts  of 
the  world.  CARICOM  will  continue  to  stand  as  a 
willing partner in the cause of Africa’s progress. 
Mrs. Kaur (India): It gives me great pleasure to 

attend today’s joint debate on the New Partnership for 
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  and  the  promotion  of 
peace  and  development  in  Africa,  including  in  its 
efforts to fight malaria.  

In  the  immortal  words  of  India’s  first  Prime 
Minister,  Mr.  Jawaharlal  Nehru,  Africa  is  our  sister 
continent.  India’s  links  with  Africa  are  civilizational; 
they  are  anchored  in  centuries  of  trade  across  the 
Indian  Ocean,  in  the  shared  struggle  against  the  yoke 
of  colonialism,  in  our  endeavour  of  post-colonial 
nation-building, and in our common quest to unshackle 
our  people  from  the  bondage  of  poverty,  disease, 
hunger, illiteracy and apartheid. We also owe a debt of 
gratitude to that great continent for being the political 
birthplace  of  the  father  of  our  nation,  Mahatma 
Gandhi,  who  first  tested  his  central  precepts  of  non-
violence and peaceful resistance in South Africa. 
After  the  adoption  of  NEPAD,  it  is  befitting  to 

recognize  the  noteworthy  progress  made  so  far  in 
pursuing 
agriculture, 
infrastructure,  health,  education,  science,  information 
technology  and  the  environment.  Nevertheless,  this 
decadal milestone also offers an opportunity for sober 
reflection on the unfinished tasks ahead in fulfilling the 
vision  of  socio-economic  growth  and  sustainable 
development  that  was  envisaged  when  the  framework 
was first conceived. 

Particularly  relevant  to  this  discussion  is  the 
pivotal  contribution  of  international  cooperation  to 
Africa’s development, especially in its efforts to make 
progress  towards  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
and in surmounting the difficult challenges confronting 
post-conflict and transitional societies in Africa. 
priorities 
sectoral 
in 
11-53871 

7 
A/66/PV.32 


As  rightly  emphasized  by  the  Secretary-General 
in  his  report  (A/66/202),  the  international  community 
needs to step up its efforts and bridge the gap between 
promise  and  delivery.  The  shortfall  of  $18  billion  in 
meeting  official  development  assistance  commitments 
to  Africa  is  a  cause  for  concern.  In  these  times  of 
political  uncertainty  and  fragile  transitions  in  many 
African  countries,  it  is  more  crucial  than  ever  for  the 
continent’s development partners to stay the course and 
help  African  countries  to  achieve  their  development 
goals. 

On  India’s  part,  we  have  together  with  our 
African  partners,  transformed  our  age-old  and  special 
engagement  into  an  enduring  and  multidimensional 
relationship.  Having  been  carefully  nurtured  over 
successive  years,  our  partnership  with Africa  today  is 
aligned  with  the  priorities  integral  to  the  development 
goals  of  Africa  and  is  built  on  the  foundations  of 
mutual equality and common benefit. Sectoral areas of 
cooperation  that  have  been  accorded  high  priority 
include  infrastructure  development,  capacity-building, 
agriculture,  health, 
technical 
cooperation. 

Earlier  this  year,  we  reaffirmed  our  abiding 
commitment  to  working  with  our  African  partners  at 
the Second India-Africa Forum Summit, held in Addis 
Ababa  in  May. At  the  Summit,  India  announced  fresh 
lines  of  credit  worth  $5  billion  over  the  next  three 
years for Africa and an additional $700 million in grant 
assistance 
development, 
technology transfer and the creation of new institutions 
and  training  programmes,  in  consultation  with  the 
African Union, the regional economic communities and 
our African partners. 

emphasis  on 
infrastructure  development,  we  have  also  decided  to 
support  the  development  of  the  new  Ethio-Djibouti 
Railway  in  the  amount  of  $300  million.  We  are  also 
discussing  with  the  African  Union  how  to  increase 
capacity 
the  development  of  regional  railway 
structures. 

Building  on  the  success  of  the  Pan  African 
e-Network  project,  which  shares  with  all  African 
countries  our  expertise  in  the  fields  of  health  care, 
education  through  satellite,  fibre  optics  and  wireless 
links,  we  are  looking  at  setting  up  an  India-Africa 
virtual  university.  The  proposed  university  will  set 
aside 10,000 new scholarships for African students. In 
In  keeping  with  NEPAD’s 
security  and 
resource 
in 
food 
for 
human 

the 
initiative, 
addition, we are going to significantly raise the number 
of  African  beneficiaries  of  our  scholarships  and 
training  slots,  including  under  our  flagship  technical 
and  economic  assistance 
Indian 
Technical  and  Economic  Cooperation  Programme.  We 
have committed ourselves to offering more than 22,000 
scholarships  to  African  students  over  the  next  three 
years. 

With a view to encouraging trade and investment 
flows,  there  is  also  a  proposal  to  establish  an  India-
Africa  business  council.  India  is  already  unilaterally 
making  available  duty-free  and  quota-free  market 
access  for  goods  from  34  of  the  least  developed 
countries  (LDCs)  in Africa,  which  covers  94  per  cent 
of  India’s  total  tariff  lines  and  provides  preferential 
market  access  on  tariff  lines  that  comprise  92.5  per 
cent of the global exports of all the LDCs. 

India’s  private  sector  has  played  an  increasingly 
important  role  in  recent  years  in  supporting  trade  and 
investment  flows.  Indian  companies  have  made  large 
investments  in  African  industry,  agriculture,  services, 
human  resource  development  and  infrastructure.  The 
Indian  conglomerate  Tata  has  emerged  as  the  second 
largest investor in sub-Saharan Africa. New initiatives 
to establish an India-Africa food processing cluster, an 
India-Africa integrated textiles cluster, an India-Africa 
civil  aviation  academy,  an  India-Africa  centre  for 
medium-range weather forecasting, and an India-Africa 
institute  for  agriculture  and  rural  development  are  all 
on the anvil. 

India  has  also  contributed  actively  in  efforts  to 
maintain  peace  and  security  on  the  African  continent 
through our six-decade involvement in United Nations 
peacekeeping  efforts.  Our  most  substantial  presence 
remains in Africa, including in the latest peacekeeping 
mission  in  South  Sudan.  Further,  India  will  contribute 
$2 million to the African Union Mission in Somalia, in 
line with our consistent support to the development of 
African  capacities  in  the  maintenance  of  peace  and 
security. We have consistently held the position that the 
international  community  must 
further  encourage 
regional  and  subregional  organizations  in  Africa  to 
play a more important role both in peacekeeping and in 
peacebuilding issues within Africa. 

Before  concluding,  I  would  like  to  speak  on  the 
global  anti-malaria  campaign,  particularly  in  Africa, 
dealt  with  in  the  World  Health  Organization  report 
transmitted  by  the  Secretary-General  (A/66/169).  The 
8 

11-53871 
investing 


report emphasizes the need to intensify efforts to reach 
recently  revised  and  more  ambitious  targets  by  2015. 
The analysis presented in the report draws on empirical 
evidence to suggest a strong link between the injection 
of  significant  funding  and  the  rise  in  the  number  of 
lives saved as a result of anti-malaria efforts. The fact 
that  funding  has  stagnated  in  the  past  two  years  is 
therefore  particularly  worrisome.  We  would  urge  all 
donors to step up efforts at this critical juncture. 

India’s  own  cooperation  agenda  with  Africa 
includes  capacity-building  programmes  for  medical 
and  health  specialists  to  tackle  such  pandemics  as 
malaria, filariasis, polio, HIV and tuberculosis. India’s 
in  establishing 
private  sector  has  been 
pharmaceutical  manufacturing  facilities 
in  African 
countries. We are willing to do more. 

In  conclusion,  India’s  vision  of  the  twenty-first 
century sees a great and dynamic role for Africa as an 
emerging  growth  pole  of  the  world. We  will  offer  our 
fullest  cooperation  to  translate  this  vision  into  reality. 
We  will  take  our  partnership,  founded  on  mutual 
solidarity  and  kinship,  from  pillar  to  pillar,  to  harness 
the great potential of the more than 2.1 billion Indians 
and Africans. 
Mr.  Benmehidi  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  French): 

Today’s  debate  on  progress  in  the  implementation  of 
the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD) and international support for that initiative is 
important on three counts. 
international 

tenth 
community  with 
anniversary  of  NEPAD.  It  also  allows  this  universal 
forum to assess the multidimensional changes that have 
taken  place  in  Africa  since  NEPAD  began  and  the 
launch  of  its  renewal  programme.  Finally,  it  is  a 
valuable  framework  for  assessing  the  contributions  of 
the  international  community  and  to  give  new  impetus 
to  the  global  partnership  in  support  of  the  dynamic 
being pursued towards new progress in Africa. 

We  note  first  that  NEPAD  was  born  of  the 
realization  that  we  needed  to  raise  Africa  out  of  its 
marginalization and that Africans themselves needed to 
take  ownership  of  the  political,  economic  and  social 
development  of  the  continent. Africa  must  itself  make 
the  main  effort  in  its  process  of  renewal,  which  will 
requires a qualitative change in its relationship with the 
rest  of  the  world,  replacing  traditional  modes  of 
the  celebration  of 
It  enables  us 
to  engage 
the 
the 
A/66/PV.32
to  solve 
implementation  of 
After  10  years  of 
security,  good  governance  and 
cooperating  with  a  genuine  partnership  based  on 
reciprocal commitments. 

That  is  why,  since  it  was  launched,  NEPAD  has 
been  a  credible  approach  to  fomenting  change  to 
respond  consistently  to  the  interrelated  challenges  of 
peace  and 
the 
optimization  of  the  human  and  economic  potential  of 
Africa. 

this 
multidimensional  approach  to  development,  we  can 
now see significant results in three strategic areas.  
In  the  area  of  peace  and  security,  undeniable 

progress  has  been  made 
in  conflict  prevention, 
settlement  and  management.  That  willingness  on  the 
part of Africa to strengthen its leadership in the area of 
peace and security on the continent is opening the way 
for  greater  opportunities 
long-standing 
conflicts and solve new crises.  

On  the  subject  of  governance,  it  is  widely 
recognized that democracy is now widespread and that 
its  further  entrenchment  is  making  good  progress. 
Likewise,  our  economies  are  being  increasingly  well 
managed. 
the  area  of  human  development, 
significant progress has been made through an increase 
in public expenditure on education and health care and 
reforms  to  improve  the  quality  of  and  access  to 
education.  Particular  attention  has  been  paid 
to 
agricultural 
increased 
investment, research and the introduction of techniques 
developed  to  increase  production  of  basic  foodstuffs, 
which is vital to food security.  

All  of  those  factors  together  have  contributed  to 
an  average  growth  rate  of  5  per  cent  over  the  past 
decade,  for  the  first  time  exceeding  the  rate  of 
population  growth.  Incidentally,  the  pace  of  growth 
could  have  been  even  higher  if  the  international 
environment had been more favourable, but the global 
financial,  economic,  food  and  climate  crises  have 
affected the dynamics of growth and the fight to reduce 
poverty,  compromising  our  ability  to  achieve  some  of 
the Millennium Development Goals. 

Allow  me  to  underline  that  NEPAD  has  become 
the  reference  point  for  the  activities  of  international 
partners 
support  African 
development  programmes.  For  their  part,  the  agencies 
of  the  United  Nations  system  have  integrated  the 
approach  and  goals  of  NEPAD  into  their  respective 
development 
institutions 
through 
In 
and 
that 
11-53871 

9 

exports, 
it  possible 
to  markets 
for  African 
A/66/PV.32 

operations.  That  has  undoubtedly  contributed 
to 
improving the consistency of international cooperation.  

The  dynamic  process  that Africa  has  undertaken 
and  the  convergence  of  approaches  with  its  partners 
have  made 
to  develop  a  promising 
partnership.  We  are  all  aware  that  the  challenges  of 
achieving  stability  and  development  and  the  fight 
against poverty require even further collective effort to 
maintain and accelerate the process of African renewal. 
The priority areas for a strengthened partnership in this 
new  phase  are  the  promotion  of  investment  in  job 
creation, the development of infrastructure networks at 
the  national  and  regional  levels,  the  facilitation  of 
the 
access 
diversification  of  our  economies,  and 
regional 
integration.  

The  excellent  report  of  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon  on  NEPAD  (A/66/202)  reflects  the  clear 
resolve  of  the  United  Nations  to  engage  even  further 
and  in  a  more  coordinated  way  in  responding  to  the 
priorities and needs of Africa and to help it in its drive 
to spur renewed efforts. The development of Africa, so 
vital  to  its  peoples,  should  also  be  seen  as  an 
opportunity 
the  world  economy  and  as  a 
contribution to the economic and social progress of all 
of humankind. 

Mr.  Sene  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  At  the 
outset,  I  should  like  to  extend  the  thanks  of  the 
Republic  of  Senegal  to  the  President  of  the Assembly 
for  convening  this  important  debate  on  the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD).  This 
year we celebrate the tenth anniversary of its adoption 
in  July  2001  in  Lusaka  as  a  result  of  combining  the 
Millennium Africa Recovery Plan and the Omega Plan 
of President Abdoulaye Wade of Senegal. 

In  the  same  vein,  I  would  like  to  express  my 
delegation’s  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for 
the  excellent  reports  he  has  prepared,  featuring 
pertinent  and  useful 
for 
the 
socio-economic renewal of the African continent. 

The  continent-wide  initiative  that  is  NEPAD  has 
always  been  founded  on  a  concept  of  development 
from  within  and  a  will  for  remediation  of 
the 
institutional  and 
infrastructural  disparity  between 
North  and  South  through  a  partnership  of  equals  that 
circumvents  the  constraints  of  assistance.  NEPAD 
offers  a  new  concept  of  the  nature  and  focus  of  the 
relations Africa should have with the rest of the world. 
recommendations 
for 
the 
free 
from 
that  despite 
circumstances 
NEPAD’s ambitious programme exhorts Africa to take 
principle responsibility for its own development, but it 
also  posits  actions  on  the  part  of  the  international 
community to assist our continent in its tireless efforts 
to 
of 
itself 
underdevelopment. 

As the Secretary-General highlights so well in his 
report (A/66/202), it is clear today that, in the course of 
NEPAD’s  first  10  years,  Africa  has  made  significant 
progress  in  many  respects,  especially  in  quelling 
hotbeds  of  tension,  restoring  economic  growth,  good 
governance  and  democracy,  as  well  as  in  promoting 
human rights and gender equality.  

We  must  admit,  however, 
the 
encouraging  signs  pointed  out  by 
the  Secretary-
General,  progress 
remains  slow  and  difficulties 
continue to weigh heavily on our continent’s potential. 
Indeed, in many other areas we find the grim portrait of 
failure,  made  bleaker  by  the  recent  economic,  food, 
energy  and  environmental  crises,  which  have  kept 
Africa  in  intractable  difficulties  and  left  it  at  a 
crossroads in its quest for development. 
Even  more  worrying  and  dire  are  the  high 

statistics  on  poverty,  which  runs  at  two-fifths  of  the 
African  population;  on  HIV,  which  has  infected  more 
than  20  million  people;  on  malaria,  which  is  rampant 
on our continent and kills 9 out of 10 of those infected 
worldwide;  and  on  infant  and  maternal  mortality. 
Clearly, Africa  will  have  trouble  finding  its  economic 
wings  if  we  do  not  mitigate  those  overwhelming 
constraints.  

It  is  through  pledges  and  funding  that  the 
international  community  can  really  help  Africa’s 
initiatives.  Today,  the  formulation  of  the  NEPAD 
sectoral  priorities  has  led  to  on  the  launch  of  several 
building  projects,  whose  success  will  require  major 
international  support.  Of  the  $64  billion  pledged  at 
Gleneagles, Africa has received only $46 billion. At the 
same  time,  the  pledge  to  increase  by  $25  billion  the 
total  of  official  development  assistance  to  Africa  has 
yet  to  be  honoured.  That  is  one  illustration,  among 
many  others, 
international 
partnerships have been slow in rising to the meet their 
stated expectations and goals. 

the  need  for 
international  assistance  does  not  at  all  relieve  every 
African  State  of  its  primary  responsibility  to  set  in 
motion  its  own  development.  Senegal  commends  the 
Of  course,  as  I  said  earlier, 
show 
that 
that 
the 
10 

11-53871 
further  delay 
into 
the 
institutional  architecture  of 
recommendations 


Secretary-General’s 
that  African 
countries  further  strengthen  mechanisms  to  ensure  the 
participation, inclusion and involvement of all strata of 
society in policy and development.  

The tenth anniversary of NEPAD could represent 
a  turning  point  in  the  actualization  of  its  sectoral 
priorities. Resolve and leadership will  be necessary  to 
transform  the  vision  of  Africa’s  development  and 
international  pledges  into  real  results  and  political 
action. We agree with the Secretary-General that 

“the  option  of  ‘business  as  usual’  should  not  be 
an alternative as it would lead to broken promises 
the 
the  achievement  of 
and 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
and 
the 
implementation of NEPAD”. (A/66/202, p. 2) 
Senegal  also  welcomes  the  decision  to  integrate 

NEPAD 
the 
African  Union  Commission  via  the  creation  of  the 
NEPAD  Planning  and  Coordination  Agency 
in 
February  2010.  We  welcome  full  discussion  of  that 
measure,  which  assures  the  increased  consistency  and 
effectiveness  of  our  institutional  mechanisms.  Senegal 
also  welcomes  the  choice  made  by  NEPAD’s  new 
leadership, along with the African Union Commission, 
to  promote  the  continent’s  development  through  road 
and  railway 
lead 
engineer  of  the  project  to  link  Dakar  and  Djibouti, 
Senegal  pledges 
this 
ambitious  programme  for  the  economic  and  political 
integration of the continent. 
In  the  context  of  the  African  renaissance,  the 

touchstone  of  NEPAD,  my  country  appeals  to  the 
international  community  to  support  initiatives  whose 
implementation  will  have  a  more  than  positive  impact 
on 
the 
strengthening of the African Peer Review Mechanism, 
an  important  lever  for  promoting  good  governance, 
increasing  public  spending  on  agriculture  to  10  per 
cent,  in  accordance  with  the  Maputo  Declaration,  and 
protecting the environment with the Great Green Wall, 
which  would  cross  the  Sahel  from  the  Atlantic  to 
Djibouti. These African initiatives deserve the support 
and assistance of the international community. 

require 
African  development  will  perforce 
stability  and  lasting  peace.  In  this  connection,  we 
welcome  the  return  of  Côte  d’Ivoire  to  constitutional 
order. After a period of great pain, that country is now 
demonstrating to the world its ability to overcome the 
the  future  of  our  continent.  I  refer 
infrastructure  projects.  As 
to  ensure 
the  completion 
A/66/PV.32
regard 
past  and  its  attachment  to  the  cardinal  principles  of 
democracy,  justice  and  peace  that  were  so  dear  to  the 
founder  of  the  Ivorian  nation,  the  late  President  Félix 
Houphouët-Boigny. My country believes in the genius 
of  the  Ivorian  people  and  reiterates  its  unwavering 
support  for  that  brotherly  country  and  friend  as  it 
embarks  on  a  sensitive  phase  of  its  march  towards 
stability, peace and progress.  
We express the same hope for peace and restored 

stability  with 
to  Somalia,  Darfur  and 
Madagascar,  as  well  as  Tunisia,  Egypt  and  Libya. All 
those countries need the special attention of the United 
Nations  if  they  are  to  achieve  sustainable  peace. 
Following  the  events  collectively  referred  to  as  the 
Arab  Spring,  which  brought  unexpected  shocks  to  the 
stability of that region of Africa, Senegal reiterates its 
urgent  call  for  implementation  of  the  reforms  that 
would  place  our  continent  on  the  pedestal  of  lasting 
peace.  

Senegal  also  wants  the  United  Nations  to  focus 
enhanced and reinvigorated attention on the new State 
of  South  Sudan,  whose  arrival  on  the  international 
scene marked the end of decades of crisis and tension 
and was the object of numerous mediation efforts, the 
most decisive of which took place in Eldoret in Kenya. 

Africa  is  also  facing  the  challenge  of  malaria, 
which  is  seriously  undermining  our  efforts  towards 
economic  recovery.  This  devastating  illness  continues 
to kill thousands of Africans, especially young people, 
women  and  children.  We  recognize  the  immense 
sacrifices  that  have  led  to  increased  funding  for  the 
Global  Fund  to  fight  HIV/AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and 
Malaria. 
The  media  continue  to  portray  Africa  as  the 

financial, 
continent  most  afflicted  by  economic, 
environmental, energy and food crises. Africa is home 
to 32 of the world’s 48 least developed countries. Yet it 
is  struggling  and  mobilizing  with 
immeasurable 
determination  and  self-denial  to  emerge  from  the 
labyrinths of poverty. It faces towering obstacles, both 
endogenous  and  exogenous,  and  will  emerge  into 
health  only  in  the  context  of  just  and  equitable 
partnership  based  on  truth  and  sincerity,  far  from  the 
lofty  promises  and  commitments 
that  are  rarely 
honoured.  
Mr.  Al-Shammari  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

My  delegation  is  honoured  to  participate  in  today’s 
for  Africa’s 
debate  on 
the  New  Partnership 
the 
to 
11-53871 

11 


in 
the 
A/66/PV.32 

Development  (NEPAD).  We  read  very  closely  the 
report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/66/202)  on  the 
progress  made 
implementation  of  and 
international  support  for  NEPAD.  Kuwait  attaches 
great importance to our partnership with Africa and its 
concerns and interests, given our close and historic ties 
with its countries. 

It has been 10 years since the adoption by African 
countries of NEPAD, which seeks to achieve equitable 
development on a large scale, to reduce poverty and to 
enable Africa  to  become  economically  integrated  into 
the  world  economy.  We  hope 
that  sustainable 
development, which has repeatedly been emphasized in 
resolutions adopted at a number of conferences held by 
African  countries,  will  allow  us  to  establish  a  fair 
partnership  between  developed 
and  developing 
countries  in  order  to  contribute  to  the  stability  of 
economic  relations  between  those  nations.  We  also 
hope that it will lead to a fair and balanced world trade 
that will respond to Africa’s special needs. 

At the high-level panel to evaluate progress made 
in  the  implementation  of  NEPAD,  Deputy  Secretary-
General Asha-Rose  Migiro  emphasized  the  slow  pace 
of  progress  being  made  on  the  African  continent 
towards 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals. That reality, I believe, should spur 
us even further to help Africa overcome the obstacles it 
faces in making progress towards development.  

The  efforts  of African  countries  to  emerge  from 
the  vicious  cycle  of  debt  and  to  free  up  funds  for 
development  are  among  the  major  challenges  that  the 
continent  is  facing.  Some  highly  indebted  countries 
have  benefited  from  bilateral  debt  cancellation  by 
donor countries, while the International Monetary Fund 
has  launched  an  initiative  for  highly  indebted  poor 
countries.  

Debt  cancellation  is  a  positive  step  to  which 
Kuwait  contributed  even  before  the  establishment  of 
NEPAD. We call for the alleviation of the debt burden 
of highly indebted poor African countries, in line with 
the  statement  made  by  the  late  Emir  Sheikh  Jaber 
Al-Ahmad  Al-Sabah  of  Kuwait  at  the  forty-third 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  in  1988,  in  which 
asked countries to cancel the debt weighing heavily on 
the  economies  of  developing  countries  and  countries 
experiencing  significant  economic  difficulties  (see 
A/43/PV.8).  In  this  respect,  we  stress  the  comment  in 
the Secretary-General’s report that  
achievement 
the 
of 
“efforts  to  relieve  the  external  debt  burden  of 
African  countries  within  the  framework  of  the 
heavily indebted poor countries… debt initiative, 
the multilateral debt relief initiative… and at the 
bilateral  level,  the  amount  of  debt  and  debt 
servicing  has  been  drastically  reduced  since  its 
peak in the mid-1990s” (A/66/202, para. 54). 

The  total  external  debt  of  sub-Saharan  countries 
used to be 73 per cent of gross national product (GNP). 
That rate was reduced to 25 per cent of GNP by 2010, 
which has freed up the funds necessary to enable those 
countries  to  spend  more  on  initiatives  to  reduce 
poverty  and  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  

Kuwait  continues  to  provide  development  aid  to 
developing  countries,  and  to  African  countries  in 
particular,  through  its  public  and  private  institutions. 
This  ongoing  policy  is  based  on  our  belief  that 
supporting  the  economies  of  African  countries  is 
important  to  helping  them  achieve  the  MDGs,  which 
will  ultimately  benefit  everyone  and  enable  us  to 
improve partnerships and cooperation and to strengthen 
the international economic and trading systems. 

for  Arab  Economic 
Development  helps  to  strengthen  a  number  of African 
and  international  development  funds,  such  as  the 
African  Development  Fund, 
the  Arab  Bank  for 
Economic  Development  in  Africa  and  the  Special 
Programme  for  sub-Saharan  Africa,  as  well  as  a 
number  of  financial  institutions  that  fund  African 
development.  Kuwait  has 
approximately 
$500 million  on  such  initiatives.  We  have  also  helped 
to  support  the  provision  of  basic  foodstuffs  and  of 
funds to combat HIV/AIDS. 
In conclusion, let me stress that African countries 

themselves  must  strengthen  their  own  efforts  in  this 
international  initiative.  They  must  reach  out  to  the 
donor  countries  and  more  emphatically  raise  the 
awareness  of  the  international  community  of  the  need 
to  create  a  NEPAD  that  is  integrated  into  Africa’s 
structures  and  operations,  with  the  help  of  the  public 
and  private  sectors  and  civil  society. A  partnership  is 
not a short-term thing; it is an ongoing process, and we 
commend 
international 
institutions  in  mobilizing  support  for  this  initiative. 
African  countries  have  made  significant  efforts  to 
convince 
their 
international  community 
The  Kuwait  Fund 
the  pioneering 
role  of 
spent 
that 
the 
12 

11-53871 
progress 
in 
rapidly 
expanded 
honouring 
itself  has 


development  should  be  a  priority  and  that  peace  and 
stability are essential to creating that development. 

It  is  high  time  that  the  international  community 
made  meaningful 
its 
commitments  and  began  to  help  African  countries  to 
implement  a  number  of  specific  NEPAD  programmes 
and projects, as well as in guaranteeing the climate of 
peace that is so essential to development. 
Mr.  Quinlan  (Australia):  I  thank  the  President 

for  convening  this  debate  on  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  and  the  Decade  to 
Roll  Back  Malaria 
in  Developing  Countries, 
Particularly in Africa. 

As we mark the tenth anniversary of the adoption 
of  NEPAD,  and  draw  closer  to  the  deadlines  we  have 
set  ourselves  for  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  it  is  essential  that  we 
take stock of these issues. I will briefly address each in 
turn. 

its 
engagement  with  the  countries  and  institutions  of 
Africa in recent years. We needed to, and we have done 
so  because  we  recognize Africa’s  growing  global  role 
and  leadership,  and  the  opportunities  and  dynamism 
that  the  continent  offers.  Our  relationship  with  the 
African  Union  and  our  development  cooperation  are 
important  parts  of  this.  We  have  tripled  development 
cooperation  with  Africa  since  2007.  We  expect  it  to 
double  again  by  2015,  in  an  overall  development 
assistance budget that will also have doubled by then, 
to around $10 billion. 
is  focused  on 

supporting  African 
those 
expressed,  importantly,  through  NEPAD,  in  order  to 
achieve  the  MDGs.  We  seek  to  make  a  practical 
contribution  in  areas  where  we  have  expertise  and 
experience: agriculture and food security, maternal and 
child  health,  water  and  sanitation,  mining  governance 
and  human  resource  capacity-building.  NEPAD  helps 
us,  as  a  growing  donor,  by  setting  priorities  and 
helping  us  coordinate  with  regional  and  national 
initiatives.  
We  welcome  the  integration  of  NEPAD  into  the 

the  African  Union. 
structures  and  processes  of 
NEPAD’s 
Africa 
Agriculture 
Development  Programme,  as  an  example,  has  helped 
Australia 
assistance, 
Our  development  cooperation 
Comprehensive 
focus  our 
food 
security 
Australia 
priorities, 
including 
A/66/PV.32
improved 
intraregional 
coordinating  with  others  and  avoiding  duplication.  I 
would  also  like  to  commend  the  work  of  the  African 
Peer Review Mechanism, a product of NEPAD, which 
is providing Member States with frank analysis of their 
progress on governance. 

We should all recognize NEPAD’s achievements; 
we  know  that.  However,  we  must  also  note  a  few 
significant  challenges  as  we  look  forward.  These 
include the dangerous global economic outlook and the 
stalling  of  the  Doha  Round  of  trade  negotiations. 
Australia  will  continue  to  press  for  an  ambitious, 
comprehensive outcome of Doha that liberalizes trade, 
including,  importantly,  agricultural  trade.  Agricultural 
trade  liberalization,  combined  with  effective  aid-for-
trade activities in the region, will help Africa trade its 
way out of poverty. 
NEPAD  can  continue  to  play  a  useful  role  in 

supporting 
trade,  which, 
although  increasing,  remains  too  low.  This  could 
include supporting regional integration efforts, such as 
the  rationalization  of  regional 
trade  agreements. 
NEPAD  could  also  play  an  enhanced  role  in  helping 
attract  private  sector  investment  in  support  of  much-
needed and essential infrastructure development. 

When  it  comes  to  Africa’s  development,  it  is 
important  that  donor  countries  do  what  they  say  they 
will  do,  and  that  they  honour  their  commitments  — 
that  we  honour  our  commitments.  This 
is  what 
Australia seeks to do. In this spirit, we look forward to 
working on the process, to be facilitated by Kenya and 
Sweden,  for  establishing  a  monitoring  mechanism  to 
follow  up  on  commitments 
to  Africa’s 
development. 

I now turn briefly to the issue of malaria. I would 
like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  and  the  World 
Health  Organization  (WHO)  for  the  report  on  the 
Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  (A/66/169).  Australia 
acknowledges  the  impressive  global  gains  made  in 
malaria  control.  These  include  saving  the  lives  of 
almost  three-quarters  of  a  million  children  across 
34 malaria-endemic  African  countries,  representing 
98 per  cent  of 
in  Africa. 
However,  much  more  needs  to  be  done  to  ensure  that 
MDG 6 and its targets are achieved by 2015.  

As  we  have  heard,  malaria  continues  to  have  a 
serious  human  and  economic  impact  worldwide,  and 
the  vast  majority  of  cases  and  deaths  still,  of  course, 
occur in Africa. As the representative of Kenya has just 
the  at-risk  population 
related 
11-53871 

13 
is 
by 
our 
own 
Australia’s 
commitment 
demonstrated 
A/66/PV.32 

noted,  more  than  170  million  Africans  are  affected 
each  year.  Young  children  and  pregnant  women  are 
particularly afflicted. 

to  malaria 
prevention  and  control  in  Africa  and  other  affected 
regions 
three-year, 
$210-million commitment to the Global Fund to Fight 
AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria,  and  our  multi-year 
commitment  through  the  WHO.  We  also  support 
national  malaria  programmes  in  our  own  immediate 
region,  the  Asia-Pacific.  Since  2003,  for  example, 
Australia  has  helped  reduce  malaria  cases  by  80  per 
cent in Vanuatu and by more than half in the Solomon 
Islands.  These  results  show  that  targeted  action  by 
national  Governments  and  their  development  partners, 
working  very  closely  together,  can  achieve  significant 
progress. 

But,  of  course,  problems  remain  in  this  region. 
We  are  particularly  concerned  about  the  threat  posed 
by  the  emergence  of  drug-resistant  malaria  in  the 
Mekong region in Asia. The cost in terms of lives and 
economic  impact  could  be  significant,  particularly  if 
drug-resistant malaria spreads to Africa and the Pacific. 
Australia,  in  partnership  with  the  WHO,  the  Global 
Fund and others, is commissioning research to inform a 
multi-donor  strategy  to  address  drug-resistant  malaria 
in  the  Mekong  region.  The  results,  of  course,  will 
apply beyond. 

In concluding, I should say that Australia remains 
very  firmly  committed  to  achieving  the  targets  for 
MDG  6  by  2015,  and,  ultimately,  to  contributing  to 
saving  the  lives  of  millions  by  bringing  an  end  to  the 
malaria  epidemic  worldwide.  To  do  that,  we  must 
accelerate  global  efforts,  including  through  effective 
partnerships, 
increased 
financial investment. We are committed to doing so but 
it is, of course, a collective responsibility. 

Mr. Wang  Min  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  As 
the  blueprint  for  development  designed  by  African 
countries themselves and the programme for economic 
and  social  development  established  by  the  African 
Union,  the  New  Partnership  for Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD)  embodies 
the  strong  desire  of  African 
countries 
to  make 
common 
development.  With  the  support  of  the  international 
community,  in  recent  years  NEPAD  has  gained  more 
substance,  improved  its  mechanisms  and  set  priority 
areas,  such  as  agriculture  and  infrastructure,  thus 
efforts 
joint 
innovative 
research 
and 

the 
tenth 
of  NEPAD’s 
playing  a  positive  role  in  promoting  the  development 
and revitalization of Africa.  

However,  owing  to  factors  such  as  the  volatility 
of  the  international  financial  market,  the  political 
instability  of  some  areas,  frequent  natural  disasters, 
rising food prices and the energy shortage, Africa still 
lags behind other regions of the world in achieving the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  On 
the 
occasion 
the 
anniversary, 
international community should use that opportunity to 
take stock and to sum up experience. On that basis, it 
should  increase  support  to  Africa  to  help  it  make 
greater strides in implementation so as to promote the 
stability and prosperity of the continent. 

First,  aid  commitments  should  be  effectively 
honoured.  Although 
total  volume  of  official 
development  assistance  has  shown  some  increase  in 
recent  years,  it  still  falls  far  short  of  the  committed 
goals  and Africa’s  actual  needs.  The  2010  High-level 
Meeting  on  the  MDGs  called  on  the  international 
community to implement its aid commitments to Africa 
(see  resolution  65/1).  The  Fourth  United  Nations 
Conference on the Least Developed Countries adopted 
the Istanbul Programme of Action, giving new impetus 
to  efforts  for  the  accelerated  attainment  of  the  MDGs 
in Africa.  

in  particular 
The 
developed  countries,  should  effectively  honour  the 
commitments made, increase assistance and support to 
Africa,  work  to  help  Africa  build  capacity  for  self-
development,  and  make  active  efforts 
to  create 
favourable  international  economic,  trade  and  financial 
conditions for Africa. 

Secondly,  the  ownership  of  African  countries 
should  be  respected.  In  providing  help  to  African 
countries,  the  international  community  should  have 
faith  in  the  wisdom  of  the  Government  and  people  of 
African countries; respect the ownership and leadership 
of the recipient countries; respect the development path 
chosen by African countries themselves based on their 
national conditions; support them in addressing African 
affairs  by 
themselves;  help  Africa  maintain  and 
consolidate peace and stability; and provide safeguards 
for its development. 

Thirdly,  active  efforts  are  needed  to  tackle  the 
challenge  of  climate  change.  Confronted  with  the 
multiple  challenges  posed  by  climate  change,  such  as 
frequent  floods  and  droughts,  desertification,  poor 
international  community, 
for 
14 

11-53871 
support 
the  degradation  of 
should  understand  and 


the  ecological 
harvests  and 
environment,  African  countries  urgently  need 
to 
enhance their capacity for adaptation. The international 
community 
the 
legitimate  concerns  and  claims  of  African  countries, 
help them cope with climate change as an integral part 
of  the  effort  to  enhance  their  capacity  for  sustainable 
development,  and  promote  the  full  and  balanced 
development  of  Africa 
in  a  comprehensive  and 
integrated way. 

Fourthly,  South-South  cooperation  should  be 
strengthened. Recent years have seen vibrant trade and 
investment activities among countries of the South and 
the  establishment  of  new  mechanisms  and  initiatives 
among  developing  countries.  That  has  injected  new 
vitality  into  South-South  cooperation  and  vigorously 
promoted  the  economic  and  social  development  of 
Africa.  That  kind  of  cooperation  should  be  further 
strengthened.  

At the same time, I wish to emphasize that South-
South  cooperation  is  a  form  of  mutually  beneficial 
cooperation among developing countries. It is different 
from  North-South  cooperation  and  can  only  be  a 
supplement to, and not a substitute, for the latter. 

Fifthly, efforts should be made to achieve durable 
peace.  Recently,  Africa  has  made  good  progress  in 
conflict prevention, management and settlement and in 
post-conflict 
reconstruction.  The  United  Nations 
system,  Member  States  and  regional  and  subregional 
organizations 
in  coordination  and 
cooperation,  focus  on  the  elimination  of  the  causes  of 
conflict  in  Africa,  and  strengthen  efforts  in  conflict 
prevention and peace consolidation.  

strengthen 
cooperation with the African Union in peace, security, 
political  and  humanitarian  areas,  and  support  it  and 
other 
their 
peacekeeping 
Peacebuilding 
Commission  should  reinforce  its  partnership  with  the 
countries  concerned,  respect  national  ownership  and 
address  their  special  needs  in  terms  of  reconstruction 
and social integration in a coordinated way, thus laying 
a  solid  foundation  for  durable  peace  and  sustainable 
development. 

China  is  the  largest  developing  country  in  the 
world.  Its  development  remains  an  arduous  and  long-
term task. In that context, China provides assistance to 
framework  of  South-South 
Africa  within 
in  enhancing 
The 
The  United  Nations 
regional  organizations 
should  work 
capability. 
should 
the 
A/66/PV.32
to 
of 
the 
agriculture, 
cooperation  as  part  of  mutual  assistance  between 
developing countries. China’s assistance to Africa dates 
back 
to  1956.  The  Forum  on  China-Africa 
Cooperation,  established  in  2000,  is  an  important 
contemporary platform for dialogue between China and 
African  countries  and  an  effective  mechanism  for 
pragmatic  cooperation.  As  of  the  end  of  2009,  there 
were 51 African countries that had received assistance 
from China on a regular basis.  

to  Africa,  we  have 
In  providing  assistance 
adhered  to  the  principles  of  equality  and  mutual 
benefit,  stressing  practical  results  and  keeping  pace 
with 
times,  without  attaching  any  political 
conditions,  with  a  view  to  helping  African  countries 
build  up  capacity  for  self-development.  We  have  thus 
created a unique form of South-South cooperation.  

China  has  always  attached  importance  to  and 
supported  NEPAD. The  priority  areas  of  China-Africa 
cooperation  are 
largely  consistent  with  NEPAD’s 
priority 
areas 
infrastructure, 
construction and human resources development. China-
Africa cooperation has made and will continue to make 
positive  contributions 
implementation  of 
NEPAD. 

As  an  active  response  to  the  call  to  roll  back 
malaria in developing countries, particularly in Africa, 
China  undertook  effective  cooperation  with  African 
countries  in  combating  malaria.  Over  the  past  three 
years,  China  has  built  30  malaria  prevention  and 
treatment  centres  in  African  countries  and  provided 
artemisinin anti-malaria medicines worth ¥190 million, 
or about $30 million, contributing in no small measure 
to  the  implementation  of  the  Global  Malaria  Action 
Plan. 
There is a saying in Chinese that just as distance 

will  test  a  horse’s  strength,  so  will  time  reveal  a 
person’s  heart.  Going  forward,  whatever  the  future 
vicissitudes 
the 
friendship of the Chinese people for the African people 
will remain the same, and our determination to deepen 
mutually  beneficial  cooperation  with  Africa  and 
achieve  common  development  will  endure.  China  will 
as  always  support  the  implementation  of  NEPAD  to 
help Africa realize its tremendous potential and enable 
the  African  people 
truly  benefit  from  global 
economic and social development. 
Mrs.  Jusu  (Sierra  Leone):  Sierra  Leone  fully 

associates  itself  with  the  statements  made  by  the 
the  world  situation  may  be, 
the 
to 
in 
11-53871 

15 

in 
of 
and 
peace 
durable 
(NEPAD) 
the  report  of 
A/66/PV.32 

representatives  of  Kenya  and  Argentina  on  behalf  of 
the  African  Group  and  the  Group  of  77  and  China, 
respectively. We join other delegations in thanking the 
Secretary-General for his comprehensive and forward-
looking  reports.  My  delegation  further  expresses  its 
appreciation  to  the  Special Adviser  on Africa,  Under-
Secretary-General  Cheick  Sidi  Diarra,  and  his 
dedicated team for their advisory and advocacy work in 
promoting Africa’s development agenda. 

We  are  reviewing  reports  on  the  progress  of 
implementation  of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  (A/66/202),  the  implementation  of  the 
recommendations  contained 
the 
Secretary-General  on  the  causes  of  conflict  and  the 
promotion 
sustainable 
development  in Africa  (A/66/214)  and  Decade  to  Roll 
Back  Malaria  (A/66/169),  at  a  very  crucial  and 
challenging  moment  in  global  peace  and  security  as 
well as the global economic architecture. 
The tenth anniversary of the New Partnership for 

Africa’s  Development 
an 
opportunity  for  deeper  reflection  on  the  success  and 
challenges 
transformation 
agenda  and  how  to  leverage  the  various  opportunities 
to advance sustainable development in Africa. Clearly, 
the  entire  global  community  is  grappling  with  the 
deepening  effect  of  an  unprecedented  economic  and 
financial  crisis,  which  undoubtedly  is  having  a  much 
graver  impact  on  the  developing  world.  In  particular, 
the  least  developed  countries,  most  of  which  are  in 
Africa,  remain  challenged  by  the  task  of  attaining 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  by  the 
target date of 2015. 

Despite the gloom, there are visible prospects on 
the  horizon.  With  the  support  of  the  international 
community,  significant  progress  has  been  made  in 
fostering  the  objectives  of  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development.  With  accelerated  growth  over 
the  past  decade,  improvement  in  governance,  the 
spectre  of  conflict  receding  and  improvement  in 
leadership, it is clear that Africa is at a critical turning 
point.  Steady  progress  has  also  been  recorded  in 
malaria control and prevention mechanisms, with many 
households sleeping under insecticide-treated bed nets.  

As a further commitment, some African Heads of 
State,  including  the  President  of  Sierra  Leone,  have 
committed to achieving the Secretary-General’s goal of 
in  actualizing  Africa’s 
provides 
access 
universal 
trade  and 
democracy, 
information 
to  malaria 
in  advancing 
issue,  climate  change, 
the  continent’s 
promoting 
ensuring 
control 
interventions and launched the African Leaders Malaria 
Alliance  with  the  goal  of  ending  preventable  malaria 
deaths by 2015. 
The integration of NEPAD into the African Union 

is  a  milestone 
the  socio-economic 
transformation  agenda  of  the  continent.  It  provides  a 
window  for  strategic  partnership  to  explore  areas  of 
cooperation  to  address  such  global  challenges  as  the 
debt 
regional 
integration  and  sustainable  development.  We  are 
encouraged by the ongoing implementation of NEPAD 
projects  ranging  from 
the  Comprehensive  Africa 
Agriculture  Development  Programme,  infrastructure, 
the environment, gender mainstreaming, education and 
in 
training 
communication 
technologies. 

At  the  level  of  governance,  advances  in  the 
implementation of the African Peer Review Mechanism 
have  demonstrated 
resolve  and 
commitment 
good 
governance,  peace  and  stability  in  the  continent. 
Worthy  of  note  and  commendation  is  its  system  of 
early  warning  of  impending  threats  to  peace  and 
stability in Africa. 

In  order  to  build  on  these  gains  and  further 
strengthen  our  development  strides,  it  is  in  the  best 
interest  of  the  African  countries  to  increase  domestic 
savings  and  lessen  dependence  on  foreign  aid.  In  that 
regard,  foreign  direct  investment  aimed  at  creating 
public-private partnerships and a vibrant private sector 
remains  a  viable  option  in  addressing  unemployment 
and  underemployment,  as  well  as 
in  promoting 
socio-economic development. Among the key strategic 
issues,  it  is  important  to  support  continental  resource 
mobilization and public-private partnerships to finance 
the implementation of NEPAD.  
African  Governments  and  national  and  regional 

institutions, 
economic 
communities,  need  strengthened  development  roles  to 
support  the  promotion  of  intra-Africa  trade  and  other 
key objectives. In that regard, my delegation calls upon 
the  NEPAD  Planning  and  Coordinating  Agency  to 
focus  the  next  decade  on  implementation  aimed  at 
improving  Africa’s  global  standing  and  on  improving 
the  linkages  with  the  continent’s  regional  economic 
communities.  The  decision  taken  at  the  fourteenth 
African Union Assembly in February 2010 to integrate 
including 
regional 
and 
in 
the 
16 

11-53871 


NEPAD into the structures and processes of the African 
Union added further impetus to the role of NEPAD as 
the continent’s flagship development programme. 

The  establishment  of  the  NEPAD  Planning  and 
Coordinating  Agency  as  both  a  technical  body  of  the 
African Union to replace the NEPAD secretariat and as 
the  main  institutional  vehicle  to  deliver  NEPAD’s 
vision and agenda was also a significant milestone. 

On our part as a country, despite the present food 
and  economic  crises,  Sierra  Leone  has  made 
tremendous  progress  in  implementing  its  agenda  for 
change  which  is  aligned  with  the  Joint  Vision  of  the 
United  Nations  Family 
for  Sierra  Leone.  That 
development and the peacebuilding framework have set 
clear  priorities  targeting  the  drivers  of  growth  and 
necessary  conditions  for  human  development  in  key 
areas such as energy, agriculture, infrastructure, health, 
youth unemployment and education. The strategies for 
delivering those priorities include, among other things, 
improving  public  service  capacities  and  enhancing 
public and private sector partnerships and our domestic 
financial system. In that regard, we are intensifying our 
cooperation  in  the  context  of  triangular  and  South-
South cooperation. 
the 

is  an 
responsibility  for  peace  and  security 
in  Africa, 
including  the  capacity  to  address  the  root  causes  of 
conflict  and to resolve conflicts in a peaceful manner, 
lies  primarily  with  African  countries  themselves.  The 
African  Union  and  the  subregional  organizations  have 
undertaken  to  strengthen  their  capacity  in  conflict 
prevention and resolution. They are also taking the lead 
in peacekeeping operations on the continent.  

in 
Southern Sudan, the adoption of a new Constitution in 
Kenya,  the  transition  of  Guinea  and  Niger  from 
military  to  civilian  rule,  resolving  the  post-elections 
crisis  in  Ivory  Coast,  responding  to  the  humanitarian 
situation  caused  by  drought  in  the  Horn  of  Africa, 
actively  seeking  a  peaceful  resolution  to  the  uprisings 
in  some  parts  of  North  Africa,  and  the  peacekeeping 
efforts  in  Darfur  and  Somalia  are  clear  indications  of 
the  continent’s  preparedness  to  rise  to  the  occasion, 
with  the  much-needed  support  of  the  international 
community and the United Nations. 

While  these  efforts  are  ongoing,  we  are  also 
witnessing a new wave of challenges involving violent 
protests  and  uprisings,  transnational  organized  crime 
increasing  awareness 
The  peaceful 
independence 
referendum 
There 
that 
A/66/PV.32
of 
notes 
the 
policy 
for 
peace 
and 
to 
achieve 
durable 
proposals 
countries, 
and  post-conflict 
and  narcotic  drug  trafficking,  piracy  and  issues  of 
governance, human rights and corruption. Furthermore, 
while  the  reduction  of  extreme  poverty  and  hunger 
remains the main development challenge, most African 
countries  are  also  grappling  with  the  problems  of  the 
youth  bulge  and  unemployment,  climate  change  and 
inadequate productive capacity.  
Those  challenges  frustrate  efforts  by  African 

countries 
the  MDGs.  Coordinated 
partnerships  must  therefore  be  forged  to  strengthen 
capacities  to  respond  to  crises  and  security  threats 
associated  with  the  above  challenges,  particularly  in 
conflict 
such 
partnerships remain vital in ensuring durable peace. 

In  this  connection  my  delegation  commends  the 
comprehensive  review,  requested  in  2010,  of  the 
implementation  of  the  1998  recommendations  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  the  causes  of  conflict  and  the 
promotion 
sustainable 
development  in  Africa,  in  the  light  of  new  and 
emerging issues affecting human security in Africa. My 
delegation 
and 
recommendations  in  that  report  of  the  Secretary-
General (A/66/214). 

remains  stalled.  Various 
international  commitments,  including  those  made  at 
Monterrey  and  Gleneagles,  are  yet  to  be  fulfilled. 
Slower  progress  is  recorded  in  addressing  poverty 
reduction, unemployment, environmental sustainability 
and  most  health-related  goals.  Moreover,  factors  such 
as the additional burden imposed by the adverse impact 
of the global financial, food and energy crises, climate 
change and weak employment growth on the continent 
have constrained achievement of the MDGs.  
We  therefore  call  upon  our  partners  to  intensify 

their  efforts.  First,  distorting  trade  barriers  must  be 
eliminated by promoting and facilitating market access 
to developing countries, especially the least developed 
countries.  Secondly,  we  ask  them  to  deliver  on  their 
commitment 
the  official  development 
assistance  target  of  between  0.15  and  0.7  per  cent  for 
the  developing  and 
least  developed  countries, 
respectively. Thirdly, the unsustainable debt burden of 
heavily indebted poor countries must be addressed. 

to  reiterate  Sierra 
Leone’s  commitment  to  furthering  the  objectives  of 
NEPAD: 
the  promotion  of  good  governance, 
sustainable peace and development on the continent. 
In  conclusion,  allow  me 
The  Doha  Round 
to  achieve 
11-53871 

17 

A/66/PV.32 

Mr. Abdelaziz (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): At the 

outset,  I  wish  to  express  our  appreciation  to  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  reports  on  the  progress 
achieved in the implementation of the New Partnership 
for Africa’s Development (NEPAD) (A/66/202), on the 
implementation  of  the  recommendations  in  the  report 
of the Secretary-General on the causes of conflict and 
the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and  sustainable 
development  in Africa  (A/66/214),  and  on  the  Decade 
to  Roll  Back  Malaria 
in  Developing  Countries, 
Particularly in Africa (A/66/169).  

I  wish  to  align  myself  with  the  statement  made 
earlier by the representative of Kenya on behalf of the 
African Group. 

The adoption of NEPAD, 10 years ago, embodied 
Africa’s  common  resolve  to  address  the  dual  scourges 
of poverty and marginalization that have characterized 
our  continent  for  decades,  and  to  do  so  through  an 
African-owned  common  vision  and  action  plan  that 
was  rightly  based  on  our  needs  and  priorities.  That 
vision  was  based  on  accountability  and  regional 
complementarity.  
As  a  founding  member  of  the  NEPAD  initiative, 

Egypt  is  proud  of  the  major  strides  the  African 
countries  have  made  over  the  past  decade  in  the  main 
thematic  areas  of  the  NEPAD  agenda,  particularly  in 
agriculture  and  food  security,  regional  integration, 
infrastructure,  human  development,  information  and 
communication 
the  empowerment  of 
technology, 
women and capacity-building. 
the  establishment  and 

token, 
the  African  Peer  Review 
operationalization  of 
Mechanism  —  which 
includes  30  countries  and 
represents  more  than  75  per  cent  of  the  total  African 
population  —  is  another  manifestation  of  Africa’s 
commitment  to  promote  good  governance  and  respect 
for human rights and democratic values, which go hand 
in hand with other achievements in the developmental 
fields. 

Our  commemoration  of  the  tenth  anniversary  of 
NEPAD  provides  an  important  opportunity  to  reflect 
not  only  on  the  achievements  of  NEPAD  but  also  on 
the  challenges  facing  us  and  how  to  address  them.  In 
this regard, Egypt believes that in order to consolidate 
the  progress  made  towards  achieving  NEPAD’s  main 
objectives  —  reducing  poverty,  putting  Africa  on  a 
sustainable  development  path, 
increasing  Africa’s 
integration  into  the  world  economy  and  empowering 
the  same 
By 
in 
in 
In 
this  context,  we 
look 
Achieving  NEPAD 
the  General  Assembly 
increasing  foreign  direct 
forward 
the  establishment  of  a 
women — African Governments and their development 
partners must step up their efforts in a way that leads to 
stronger  partnerships  and  continued  economic  growth 
in the interest of all sectors of society.  

undoubtedly 
objectives 
requires  fairer  trade  terms  for  Africa,  alleviating  the 
debt  burden, 
investment 
inflows to Africa and addressing the marginalization of 
the  continent 
international  economic  decision-
making processes. Africa’s development partners must 
also fully meet the official development assistance and 
other  aid  commitments  they  have  made  in  various 
forums,  including  the  Group  of  Eight  Gleneagles 
Summit, 
the  political 
declaration  on Africa’s  development  needs  (resolution 
63/1), the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly 
on the Millennium Development Goals, and the Fourth 
United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Least  Developed 
Countries  —  the  majority  of  which  are  African 
countries. 
to 
the 

consultations  on 
review 
mechanism to follow up on all commitments related to 
the  development  of  Africa  in  order  to  make  such  a 
mechanism  operational  by  the  end  of  the  Assembly’s 
sixty-sixth session, as agreed in resolution 65/284. 

In the same vein, Egypt attaches great importance 
to  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development and stresses that its outcome should fully 
take  into  consideration  the  enormous  developmental 
challenges faced by Africa. 

Over  the  past  months,  Africa  has  experienced 
profound changes that we believe are evidence that we 
are on the right path towards freedom, democracy and 
social justice. The democratic change in Côte d’Ivoire, 
the  changes  moving  towards  freedom  and  respect  for 
human rights in North Africa, the transition in Guinea 
and  Niger,  and  most  recently  the  peaceful  transfer  of 
power in Zambia are manifestations of our continent’s 
commitment  to  fulfil  its  obligations  regardless  of  the 
many challenges it faces. 

However,  if  our  continent  is  to  continue  on  this 
path  with  resolve  and  persistence,  more  concerted 
national,  regional  and  global  efforts  must  be  directed 
towards  addressing 
interlinked 
challenges  that  still  exist  in  Africa.  These  include 
intra-State  conflicts,  social  exclusion,  unconstitutional 
changes  of  Governments,  election-related  violence, 
the  multiple  and 
18 

11-53871 
in 
As 
the 
the 
the 
between 
interlinkage 


illegal  exploitation  of  natural  resources,  terrorism, 
piracy,  food  security,  climate  change,  and 
illicit 
trafficking in small arms, light weapons and drugs. 

security, 
development and respect for human rights has become 
the  fundamental  basis  for  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations, Egypt concurs with the Secretary-General that 
there  is  a  need  to  refocus  existing  development 
strategies  in  order  to  establish  stronger  institutional 
frameworks  that  can  better  tackle  the  interconnected 
challenges  of  peace  and  development.  In  particular, 
more attention must be given to the problems faced by 
the  youth,  who  are 
leading  force  of  social 
dynamism  and  development  in  our  continent.  Egypt 
underlines  the  need  for  all  stakeholders  to  adopt  a 
comprehensive approach that focuses all their existing 
tools 
areas  of  preventive  diplomacy, 
peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding  on  addressing  the 
causes  of  conflicts,  including  the  socio-economic 
engines of those conflicts. 

In  this  context,  Egypt  commends  the  increasing 
partnership  between  the  African  Union  (AU)  and  the 
United  Nations,  which  has  proven  to  be  of  significant 
importance in addressing many challenges to peace and 
security 
in  Somalia,  Côte 
d’Ivoire,  Guinea  and  Niger.  Egypt  believes  that  the 
establishment  of  the  United  Nations  Office  to  the 
African  Union  will  positively 
impact  AU-United 
Nations cooperation in all areas of peace, security and 
development. 

The  international  community  took  considerable 
steps  during  the  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  in 
Developing  Countries,  Particularly  in  Africa,  that 
resulted in the successful elimination of the disease in 
nearly  half  of  malaria-infected  countries.  In  addition, 
tangible reductions in the infection rate were achieved 
in  a  number  of  other  countries  as  a  result  of  the 
programmes  implemented  in  cooperation  with  the 
United  Nations,  non-governmental  organizations,  civil 
society organizations and the private sector. As a result 
funding 
of 
for  such 
programmes 
to  prevention  and 
treatment  was  improved  for  nearly  two  thirds  of 
Africans.  

However,  the  continuing  proliferation  of  the 
disease  in  many  countries  reaffirms  the  need  to 
continue  support  and  to  ensure  the  sustainability  of 
funding so that the Millennium Development Goals can 
in  available 
in  Africa,  access 
in  Africa,  particularly 
increase 
the 
A/66/PV.32
The 
with 
sustain 
requires 
successful, 
eradication 
of  malaria 
achieved  by  2015, 
be 
especially  Millennium 
Development  Goal  6  and  especially  in  Africa,  where 
the risk of infection is the highest in the world. 

a 
comprehensive  approach  in  which  the  implementation 
of  national  prevention  and  treatment  programmes  is 
complemented 
sustainable 
development  efforts.  This  is  particularly  true  with 
regard to revamping the infrastructure of the economic, 
educational  and  health  sectors  of  African  countries. 
This would lead to early detection of and treatment for 
diseases.  We  must  spread  awareness  and  prepare 
trained  personnel,  and  that  cannot  be  financed  by  the 
African countries alone.  

Egypt  reaffirms  the  vital  role  played  by  regional 
organizations and initiatives in this connection and the 
need for access to the required assistance. In particular, 
the  African  Leaders  Malaria  Alliance  initiative  has 
the  national  efforts  of  African 
helped 
Governments,  particularly  as 
regards  mobilizing 
international  support 
implementation  of 
the 
prevention  and  treatment  programmes  and  promoting 
preventive measures to combat the spread of malaria. 

The  success  of  efforts  to  combat  malaria  is 
directly  linked  to  the  need  to  resolve  the  trade-related 
problems  connected  to  the  intellectual  property  rights 
of  existing  malaria  detection  means  and  medications. 
The  international  community  has  a  responsibility  to 
ensure  the  effectiveness  of  the  efforts  to  eliminate 
its  continued 
risk  of 
malaria  and 
proliferation 
to 
realize  Millennium 
Development Goal 6 by 2015. 

Mr.  Mashabane  (South  Africa):  This  year,  we 
celebrate the tenth anniversary of the New Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),  which  is  the 
blueprint  for 
the  socio-economic  development  of 
Africa’s  1  billion  people  and  a  vision  for  Africa’s 
renewal,  with  the  primary  objective  of  eradicating 
poverty  and  achieving 
sustainable  growth  and 
development. 

When taking stock of the level and rate of success 
of cooperation within NEPAD, there is no doubt that it 
has made an important contribution to accelerating the 
pace  of  development  in  African  countries.  However, 
the  success  of  NEPAD  is  threatened  by  the  ongoing 
financial  and  economic  crisis,  the  energy  crisis,  the 
food  security  crisis  and  the  challenges  of  climate 
change. 
thwart 
in 
order 
for 
the 
11-53871 

19 
the  African 
these  efforts  by 
A/66/PV.32 


Africa  currently  faces  a  humanitarian  emergency 
in  the  Horn  of  Africa,  which  because  of  drought  is 
experiencing  the  most  severe  food  crisis  in  the  world 
today. Most African countries remain off track in terms 
of  achieving  Millennium  Development  Goal  1,  on  the 
eradication  of  extreme  poverty  and  hunger,  due  to  the 
food security crisis. 

In  Africa,  agriculture  is  the  primary  source  of 
food. The African leaders have established the NEPAD 
Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme  (CAADP),  which  is  a  framework  for 
agricultural  development.  The  African  leaders  have 
committed to raising the share of their national budget 
allocated  to  agriculture  to  10  per  cent  and,  through 
CAADP,  have  called  for  annual  agricultural  growth 
rates of 6 per cent. 
The international community needs, therefore, to 

support 
leaders  by 
delivering  on  their  commitments,  under  the  2009 
L’Aquila  Joint  Statement  on  Global  Food  Security,  to 
mobilize  $20  billion  over  three  years  for  agricultural 
development,  and  those  made  at  the  2009  World 
Summit on Food Security to increase aid substantially 
so that Africa can attain the objectives contained in the 
CAADP. 

the 
importance of infrastructure for both economic growth 
and  social  development.  In  this  context,  the  African 
Governments  have  made  commitments  in  energy, 
transport,  water  and  information  and  communications 
technology  under  the  Programme  for  Infrastructure 
Development in Africa to strengthen national planning 
frameworks  and  reform  the  regulatory  environment  to 
improve the efficiency of existing infrastructure. 
His  Excellency  the  President  of  the  Republic 

South Africa, Jacob Zuma, has been elected to lead this 
infrastructure development programme. South Africa is 
doing  its  best  for  the  African  continent  to  achieve 
improved access to integrated regional and continental 
infrastructure networks and services. South Africa calls 
for  more  investment  in  agriculture  and  infrastructure 
on the continent. 
We  also  call  for  strengthening  the  role  of  the 

supporting  NEPAD 
United  Nations 
cooperation.  It 
the 
international  community  come  on  board  so  as  to 
enhance the NEPAD vision for Africa’s development. 
is  vital,  as  we  do  so, 
increasingly 
emphasized 
system 
Africa 
that 
has 

in  Africa, 

The  world  has  made  remarkable  progress  in  the 
fight  against  malaria.  Statistics  indicate  that  globally, 
malaria  deaths  have  dropped  greatly.  However,  much 
more  still  needs 
to  be  done,  especially  on  our 
continent,  Africa,  where  malaria  is  affecting  many 
young children and pregnant women. Over 90 per cent 
of  deaths  occur  in  Africa.  Moreover,  the  economic 
impact  on  the  continent  is  huge,  as  an  estimated 
$12 billion in productivity is lost annually. 

We  commend  the  work  done  by  the  Roll  Back 
Malaria Partnership to coordinate global action against 
malaria. A number of new agencies end initiatives have 
contributed  immensely  to  the  fight  against  malaria, 
including the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis 
and  Malaria,  the  United  States  President’s  Malaria 
Initiative,  the  World  Bank  Booster  Programme  for 
Malaria 
the  Bill  &  Melinda  Gates 
Foundation,  the  International  Drug  Purchase  Facility, 
the African Leaders Malaria Alliance and the Office of 
the  United  Nations  Special  Envoy  for  Malaria.  We 
need  to  develop  more  such  alliances  to  conquer  the 
scourge  of  malaria.  We  should  further  strengthen 
private  and  public  sector  partnerships  and  not  leave 
civil society behind in our endeavours. 

Some  of  the  most  important  partnerships  are 
those between neighbouring countries. In the Southern 
African region, there are a few cross-border initiatives 
that  have  been  very  successful.  In  the  Lubombo 
Initiative, 
between 
Mozambique,  Swaziland  and  South  Africa,  malaria 
incidence rates have dropped by 85 to 90 per cent, with 
the number of deaths reduced by 90 per cent. 
In  the  MOZIZA  Project,  a  partnership  between 

Mozambique,  Zimbabwe 
a 
significant reduction in malaria cases has been realized 
for  the  period  2000-2010  by  using  indoor  residual 
spraying  with  DDT  as  the  main  strategy.  So  far,  DDT 
has  been  found  to  be  the  most  effective  agent  in  the 
control of the malaria vector. Countries in the Southern 
African  region  that  adopted  the  use  of  DDT  in  indoor 
residual  spraying  have  significantly 
the 
number of malaria cases by up to 80 per cent; four of 
them  have  reached  the  pre-elimination  stage.  Vector 
control is vital for the African region to deal effectively 
with malaria. 
Other strategies that can help advance the success 

of  malaria  control 
in  new 
technologies, such as rapid diagnostic kits, long-lasting 
and  South  Africa, 
cross-border 
partnership 
investment 
reduced 
include 
a 
in 
20 

11-53871 
access 
to  prevention,  diagnosis 


insecticide-treated  nets,  and  effective  anti-malaria 
drugs such as vaccines, all made available at affordable 
cost.  Some  countries  have  done  well  by 
taking 
additional  measures,  such  as  waiving  taxes  and  tariffs 
for the products needed for malaria control. 

Working  together,  we  can  achieve  our  goal  of 
eliminating malaria by 2015, so that all our people can 
enjoy  the  high  standard  of  physical  and  mental  health 
that they deserve. We can do this successfully through 
increased 
and 
treatment. 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  Russia  has  consistently  called  for  greater 
involvement  by  the  United  Nations  in  addressing  the 
challenges  facing  Africa.  We  firmly  believe 
that 
without the active, full-fledged engagement of African 
countries  in  international  affairs  it  will  be  impossible 
to launch fruitful cooperation on a global scale and to 
establish  an  integral  and  stable  global  security  system 
based on the supremacy of international law. 

In  order  to  make  this  a  reality,  we  need  first  to 
overcome  the  most  acute  problems  that  prevent  the 
normal  economic  and  social  development  of 
the 
African continent, namely, poverty, famine and disease. 
We  call  for  a  comprehensive  and  integrated  approach 
to a solution, and for an effective global partnership to 
achieve 
these  goals  based  on  a  combination  of 
international  support  with  efficient  measures  by 
Africans themselves. 

In recent years, African countries have started to 
take  a  more  active  part  in  global  political,  economic 
and  humanitarian  processes.  They  play  a  notable  role 
in  the  United  Nations  and  other  multilateral  forums, 
making significant contributions to the development of 
coordinated approaches to resolving key contemporary 
problems.  Africa  has  confidently  embarked  on  a  path 
towards  broad-based  transformation  and  modernization. 
Much  has  been  done  to  speed  up  growth  rates  and 
strengthen  political,  economic  and  cultural  unity.  We 
call for more active and coordinated efforts on the part 
of Governments, international financial institutions, the 
non-governmental 
business 
organizations 
the 
Millennium Development Goals on schedule.  

This year marks the tenth anniversary of the New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD),  an 
initiative  of  the  African  Union  that  represents  the 
that  continent  to 
aspirations  of  the  countries  of 
and 
the  achievement  of 
community 
to  ensure 
11-53871 

21 
to 
A/66/PV.32
for 
to 
the 
efforts 
provide 
ensuring 
determine their future independently and assume basic 
responsibility  for 
the  maintenance  of  peace  and 
security,  economic  governance,  the  sustainable  use  of 
natural  resources,  the  fight  against  corruption  and  the 
effective use of development assistance. 
Russia regards NEPAD as an essential benchmark 

and 
instrument 
sustainable 
development  of  Africa  and  actively  participates  in 
coordinated 
comprehensive 
assistance both bilaterally and within the framework of 
existing international mechanisms, including the Group 
of Eight Africa Action Plan. 

One  of  the  major  areas  of  Russia’s  assistance  to 
Africa is the alleviation of the debt burden of countries 
of  that  region. As  of  late  2010,  Russia  has  written  off 
African  debt  in  the  amount  of  $20  billion.  We  are 
presently  holding  consultations  with  a  number  of 
African  countries  on  signing 
inter-Governmental 
agreements  to  use  that  forgiven  debt  to  finance 
development  projects.  The  estimated  total  remaining 
debt to be cancelled is over $500 million. By the end of 
2011,  Russia  will  contribute  $50  million  to  the World 
Bank Trust  Fund  to  support  vulnerable  countries,  first 
and foremost in sub-Saharan Africa.  

Russian  humanitarian  aid  to  the  countries  of  the 
region  totalled  $6  million  in  2010.  African  countries 
enjoy  broad 
trade  preferences.  Traditional  export 
products  of  the  least  developed  countries,  most  of 
which  are  in Africa,  have  been  exempted  from  import 
customs duties in Russia.  
We also provide substantial assistance to African 

countries 
training. 
Currently,  more  than  4,500  Africans  are  studying  in 
Russian  universities.  Approximately  50  per  cent  of 
them  are  on  federal  budget  scholarships.  In  the 
2010-2011  academic  year,  the  quota  of  Government 
scholarships  for  Africa  was  increased.  From  2008  to 
2012,  we  will  have  allocated  $42.9  million  to  the 
World Bank programme to improve the quality of basic 
education in developing countries, including in Africa. 

Substantial  assistance  is  provided  to  African 
countries in the area of public health. The total amount 
of  our  voluntary  contributions  to  the  Global  Fund  to 
Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria 
reached 
$40 million.  By  the  end  of  2011,  we  will  have 
contributed $20 million towards the implementation of 
the World Bank programme to combat malaria, and an 
the  World  Health 
additional  $18  million 
form  of  professional 
in 
the 

to 
continues 
to  participate 
the  African  Union  on 
A/66/PV.32 

Organization  for  the  elimination  of  polio  in Africa.  In 
2010-2011,  Russia 
in 
supporting  the  budget  of  the  Secretariat  of  the Africa 
Partnership Forum in the amount of $200,000 annually. 
As a permanent member of the Security Council, 

Russia  makes  a  significant  contribution 
the 
elaboration  of  strategic  policy  and  practical  measures 
for  the  international  community  to  strengthen  peace 
and  security  in  the  region.  We  participate  in  many 
United Nations peacekeeping operations in Africa. We 
have  significantly  expanded  our  training  programmes 
for African peacekeepers and law enforcement officers. 
We  believe  that  a  key  factor  in  ensuring  a  prosperous 
future  for  the African  continent  is  the  prevention  and 
resolution of armed conflict. We note with satisfaction 
the  active  work  of  the  African  Union  to  create  an 
African standby force and an early warning system for 
conflicts. We  welcome  the  open  dialogue  between  the 
United  Nations  Security  Council  and  the  Peace  and 
Security  Council  of 
the 
resolution of acute crisis situations.  

Those  positive  developments  clearly  require 
additional  support.  A  more  durable  peace  on  the 
continent  requires  active  involvement  on  the  part  of 
Africans.  Measures  need  to  be  taken  to  combat  illicit 
armed 
to  strengthen  good  neighbourly 
relations and to expand cooperation in order to ensure 
border  security.  Borders  should  be  strengthened  to 
prevent the spillover of conflicts and the infiltration of 
weapons and mercenaries, as well as to suppress mass 
violations  of  international  human  rights  law  and 
impunity for crimes against humanity.  

Russia provides consistent political support to the 
relevant  efforts  by  the  African  community  and  is 
prepared  to  further  assist  in  strengthening  Africa’s 
crisis  prevention  capacity.  We  are  certain  that  all 
impediments  to  the  transformation  of  Africa  into  a 
continent  of  security  and  stability  and  sustainable 
development  can  be  overcome  on  the  solid  basis  of 
international  law,  African  unity  and  the  solidarity  of 
the  friends  of  Africa  with  African  nations.  Naturally, 
Russia considers itself a friend of Africa. 
Mr. Prosor (Israel): The great Rabbi Hillel once 

declared, “If  I am only for myself, what am I? And if 
not now, when?” As we take up this important debate, I 
am  reminded  of  his  famous  words.  At  this  critical 
moment,  the  international  community  must  move 
forward  with  the  urgency  of  Rabbi  Hillel’s  call, 
factions, 
in 
the 
actively  partnering  with  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  to  build  a  brighter 
future for the African continent. 
Today Africa stands at a turning point. Significant 

progress  has  been  made 
continent’s 
development.  However,  while  we  see  the  promise  of 
great  opportunities  on  the  horizon,  the  challenges  of 
the present endure. We continue to witness drought and 
famine, hunger and poverty, conflict and instability. All 
of  these  remain  significant  obstacles  to  unlocking  the 
vast potential of Africa and its people. 

My  country  has  been  deeply  engaged  in African 
development  for  more  than  five  decades.  In  1958, 
Golda  Meir,  then  serving  as  Israel’s  Foreign  Minister, 
undertook  a  historic  visit  to  the  newly  independent 
States of Africa. She saw first-hand that many of those 
countries  faced  development  challenges  similar  to 
Israel’s,  such  as  a  difficult  climate  and  poor  farming 
conditions. 

Golda  Meir  resolved  to  share  Israel’s  growing 
expertise, driven by her Zionist values and the spirit of 
what  we  call  tikkun  olam,  the  Jewish  principle  that 
calls  on  us  to  “mend  the  world”  and  make  it  a  better 
place. At that time, Israel was in its infancy. We were a 
developing  nation  facing  a  range  of  overwhelming 
challenges.  Yet  she  saw  assistance  to  the  newly 
independent  nations  of  Africa  as  an  imperative.  She 
said that like them, we had shaken off foreign rule; like 
them, we had to learn for ourselves how to reclaim the 
land,  how  to  increase  the  yields  of  our  crops,  how  to 
irrigate,  how  to  live  together,  and  how  to  defend 
ourselves. 

Thousands  of  Israeli  experts  of  every  sort  — 
scientists,  doctors,  engineers,  teachers  and  irrigation 
experts — set out for the continent. Among them were 
my  parents,  who  brought  me  with  them.  As  a  young 
child in what was then Tanganyika, I remember vividly 
how  Israelis  worked  hand  in  hand  with  their  African 
counterparts  to  share  our  knowledge.  They  worked 
together on the ground, out in the fields of farms, in the 
halls of schools, and in the corridors of hospitals. The 
connections  that  were  forged  in  those  days  have 
blossomed into an extensive programme of cooperation 
overseen 
for 
international cooperation. 

That  programme  has  expanded  as  Israel  has 
advanced on its own journey from a developing nation 
to  a  member  of  the  Organization  for  Economic 
by  MASHAV, 
Israel’s 
agency 
22 

11-53871 
teacher-training 
from  growing  oranges 
Allow me to highlight a few examples of Israel’s 


Cooperation  and  Development.  In  Israel,  we  have 
transitioned 
to  producing 
Orange  mobile  phones,  and  from  cultivating  apples  to 
designing Apple computers. 

development cooperation in Africa today. 
In  Ghana,  Israel  administers  a  network  of 

community-based  prenatal  and  healthy-baby  clinics, 
known as tipat chalav, which is Hebrew for “a drop of 
milk”.  Initially  developed  for  mothers  and  children  in 
Israel,  these  clinics  have  proved  highly  effective  in 
reducing child mortality and improving maternal health 
in Ghana. 

Israel  has  focused  extensively  on  education  in 
Africa.  In  2010  alone,  MASHAV  trained  more  1,200 
people  from  more  than  35  African  countries,  both  in 
Israel and in their own countries. We are also providing 
support  for  United  Nations  educational  programmes 
such  as  UNESCO’s 
initiative  for 
sub-Saharan Africa. 

Israel  continues  to  provide  immediate  relief  to 
African  nations  following  major  crises,  such  as  the 
acute  humanitarian  situation  now  facing  the  Horn  of 
Africa.  In  response  to  the  crisis,  Israel  contributed  to 
the World Food Programme, supporting the delivery of 
food  packages  to  Somali  refugees  in  Kenya.  We  have 
also  donated  funds  to  the  Ethiopian  Government, 
which  have  been  used  to  purchase  locally  produced 
food  aid  for  Somali  refugees  there.  To  address  the 
long-term challenges posed by the drought, MASHAV 
continues  to  expand  its  programmes  that  have  a 
specific focus on agriculture and food production. For 
example,  today  Israel  is  partnering  with  Ghana  and 
Germany  to  improve  the  efficiency  of  smallholder 
Ghanaian  citrus 
farmers.  That  project  combines 
agricultural assistance,  capacity-building and elements 
of microfinance and microcredit. 

Another  highly  successful  Israeli  project  is  the 
Techno-agricultural Innovation for Poverty Alleviation 
programme  (TIPA).  It  has  been  implemented  in  a 
number  of  African  countries,  including  as  part  of  a 
triangular partnership with Italy in Senegal. TIPA relies 
on 
irrigation 
techniques  that  allow  farmers  to  produce  crops  year-
round  and  improve  the  quality  of  their  fruits  and 
vegetables. 
low-cost  drip 
relatively 
simple, 
A/66/PV.32
the 
the 
reduced 

The  results  of  the  project  speak  for  themselves. 
Farmers  have  moved  from  poverty  to  self-sufficiency. 
Hunger  has  been  drastically 
in  many 
found  new 
communities.  Rural  women  have 
opportunities for empowerment. Projects such as TIPA 
highlight 
importance  of  sharing  agricultural 
technology  to  promote  sustainable  development.  To 
bring  focus  to  this  effort,  Israel  will  be  submitting  its 
biennial draft resolution on agricultural technology for 
development to the Second Committee this year. 

NEPAD  has  served  as  an  invaluable  framework 
for  advancing  major  goals  on  the  African  continent, 
spurring  important  progress.  While  African  nations 
have  primary  responsibility  for 
their  social  and 
economic  development,  the  international  community 
must support and facilitate those efforts, driven by our 
common destiny and common humanity. 

As  we  take  in  the  encouraging  progress  that  has 
been  made  and  resolve  to  meet  the  challenges  ahead, 
let  us  be  big  in  our  dreams  and  bold  in  our  actions. 
Golda  Meir’s  clear  vision  of 
fundamental 
connection between the people of Israel and the people 
of  Africa  endures.  In  the  same  spirit  as  the  early 
Zionist pioneers  who left their newly reborn nation to 
help  plant  the  seeds  of  new  nations  in Africa,  Israelis 
continue  to  stand  with  our  brothers  and  sisters  on  the 
continent  as 
the  promise  of  new 
opportunities.  
In Hebrew we say hineni,  meaning “Here I am”. 

On  Africa’s  journey  towards  growth  and  prosperity, 
Israel  is  here  —  as  a  supporter,  as  a  partner  and  as  a 
friend. 
Mr.  Osman  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 

delegation  wishes  at 
to  congratulate 
Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth 
session.  We  firmly  believe  that  thanks  to  his  wisdom 
and  skills,  we  will  achieve  the  objectives  we  have  set 
for this session. 

Development efforts in Africa since the launching 
of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD)  have  not  lived  up  to  our  expectations.  We 
have  reached  the  midway  point  in  the  implementation 
of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), slated 
for achievement by 2015; however, Africa remains the 
only continent that continues to face major obstacles in 
eliminating  poverty  and  want  —  hence  the  need  to 
redouble  our  efforts  in  the  area  of  international 
the  outset 
seize 
they 
11-53871 

23 

A/66/PV.32 

cooperation  to  implement  NEPAD  projects  and  to 
honour the commitments made. That needs to be done 
as  swiftly  as  possible  in  order  to  permit  the  African 
continent to achieve its sustainable development goals.  

The  response  to Africa’s  development  needs,  the 
evaluation of the implementation of commitments, and 
addressing  existing  challenges  are  all  positive  steps 
towards  strengthening  NEPAD.  The  report  of  the 
Secretary-General on progress in the implementation of 
and 
international  support  for  NEPAD  (A/66/202) 
underscores  the  commitment  of  Heads  of  State  and 
Government  and  the  United  Nations  to  focus  on  the 
needs  of  Africa,  as  set  forth  in  the  Millennium 
Declaration  (resolution  55/2)  and  reflected  in  the 
Monterrey  Consensus  and  the  Johannesburg  Plan  of 
Implementation.  

Above  and  beyond  the  harnessing  of  financial, 
human  and  technical  resources  for  the  elimination  of 
poverty,  hunger  and  underdevelopment,  we  need  to 
translate our commitments into concrete action. In this 
connection, we call on the international community to 
honour  its  commitments  to  eradicating  poverty  and 
strengthening  sustainable  development  in  the  context 
of  a  new,  fair  and  comprehensive  world  economic 
order  that  takes  into  account  the  needs  of  developing 
countries,  especially  in  Africa,  and  enables  them  to 
gain access to international markets. 
The role of regional organizations in peacebuilding in 

Africa  is  crucial  to  the  cause  of  building  lasting  peace, 
particularly  in  post-conflict  countries.  In  this  connection, 
we call for the full implementation of the 10-year capacity-
building  programme  for  the  African  Union,  which  is 
designed,  inter  alia,  to  enhance Africa’s  peacekeeping 
capacities. We also call for the consolidation of related 
mechanisms in the context of NEPAD. 

Peace  is  a  prerequisite  for  economic  and  social 
development.  The  Sudan  has  extensive  experience  in 
conflict 
resolution  and  peacebuilding.  Resource-
sharing  arrangements  are  essential  components  of  the 
comprehensive peace agreements in South Sudan, East 
Sudan and Darfur.  

Paragraph 7  of the Secretary-General’s report on 
the  causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable 
peace 
in  Africa 
(A/66/214) refers to the situation in Abyei. Let me say 
that, since the entry of the Sudanese Armed Forces into 
Abyei,  security  and  stability  have  been  restored  and 
there  have  been  no  incidents  of  destabilization  there. 
sustainable  development 
and 
led 
to 
the  Sudan 
is  committed 
in  Abyei  and 
the  deployment  of  forces 
The  Government  of 
to 
implementing Security Council resolution 1990 (2011) 
on 
is 
cooperating with all parties to facilitate the deployment 
of  Ethiopian  peacekeepers  in  the  region.  In  this  way, 
the situation in Abyei can be kept under control until a 
definitive  peaceful  settlement  is  reached  that  enables 
all inhabitants of the region, regardless  of their  ethnic 
origin, to engage in economic activities.  
The  report  also  mentions  that  military  attacks  in 

Southern  Kordofan  have 
large  population 
displacements  from  that  region.  My  delegation  notes 
that  the  attacks  were  the  result  of  clashes  between 
northern  and  southern  rebel  movements  that  were 
triggered  when  the  leader  of  the  southern  forces  lost 
the  gubernatorial  election  in  Southern  Kordofan.  The 
rebels  took  up  arms  against  the  population,  which 
indeed  resulted  in  large  displacements.  The  Sudanese 
Armed  Forces  then  intervened  in  accordance  with  our 
Constitution and national duty, with a view to restoring 
peace  in  the  south.  In  the  wake  of  these  events,  the 
displaced  persons  have  returned  to  their  homes  and 
resumed 
the 
development of the region. 
We  call  on  the  United  Nations  to  persuade  the 

the 
rebels 
Comprehensive 
to 
negotiations,  demobilize  and  lay  down  their  arms  in 
order  to  reach  a  peaceful  settlement,  which  is  a 
prerequisite  for  countries 
to  achieve 
sustainable  development  within  the  framework  of 
NEPAD.  In  this  context,  we  reiterate  our  unwavering 
commitment to the peaceful settlement of all conflicts 
through negotiation. 

Turning now to agenda item 13, “Decade to Roll 
Back Malaria in Developing Countries,  Particularly in 
Africa”, as the Assembly knows, malaria affects a very 
large  number  of  people;  more  than  3.3  billion  —  half 
the  world’s  population  —  have  been  exposed  to  this 
serious disease. The Sudan is also affected by malaria, 
registering more than 7 million cases a year. According 
to  scientific  studies,  the  negative  impact  of  climate 
change has increased the prevalence of the disease. The 
increase  in  temperatures  is  leading  to  a  longer  life 
cycle  for  the  mosquitoes  that  carry  the  parasite.  The 
economic  and  social  impact  of  malaria  has  been  great 
in  my  country.  Consequently,  we  have  developed  a 
national anti-malaria strategy and established a special 
their  commitments  under 
return 
Peace  Agreement, 
in  conflict 
activities 
for 
their 
agricultural 
to  honour 
24 

11-53871 
experiencing 
their  efforts 


unit  to  control  the  spread  and  monitor  the  progress  of 
the disease. 

Let  me  conclude  by  saying  that  the  economic 
slowdown  worldwide,  the  increase  in  food  prices,  and 
climate  change  are  all  factors  that  have  led  to  slower 
progress  in  the  implementation  of  NEPAD  and  in 
fighting  malaria,  and  are  hampering  the  attainment  of 
the  MDGs  by  2015.  Our  development  partners  must 
therefore  step  up 
their 
commitments with a view to resolving the debt morass 
in  which  many  African  countries  are  mired.  Many 
African  countries,  especially  post-conflict  countries, 
continue  to  suffer  from  high  indebtedness  and  are 
consequently 
sustainable 
development. 
Mr. Husain (Canada) (spoke in French): Canada 

once  again  welcomes  the  opportunity  to  participate  in 
this  debate.  The  African  continent  has  enormous 
potential,  and  we  note  with  satisfaction  its  recent 
remarkable economic growth, higher than that of many 
other  regions  of  the  world.  The  significant  progress 
Africa  has  made, 
strengthening 
democracy and promoting peace and security, is a sign 
of  a  promising  future.  Canada  is  also  encouraged  by 
the maturation of African institutions, which promotes 
regional integration and security. 

However,  Canada  also  recognizes  that  African 
countries  continue  to  face  major  challenges.  Much 
remains  to  be  done  to  work  with African  countries  in 
order  to  address  those  challenges  and  assist  them  in 
meeting their development objectives.  

Canada is doing its part to help Africa achieve the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  Almost  half  of 
Canada’s  bilateral  development  assistance  has  gone  to 
Africa in recent years, and Canada has met its Group of 
Eight  (G-8)  commitment  to  double  aid  to Africa  from 
the  2003-2004  levels  to  $2.1  billion.  Furthermore, 
Canada  has 
to  double 
international assistance by the years 2010 to 2011 from 
the  2001-2002 
total 
international assistance to approximately $5 billion. As 
part  of  the  joint  G-8  pledge  on  food  security,  Canada 
will  more  than  double  its  investment  in  food  security 
and sustainable agricultural development by providing 
$600  million  in  increased  funding  over  three  years, 
reaching  $1.18  billion  in  overall  funding.  Canada  has 
untied all its food aid. 
levels,  bringing  Canada’s 
its  commitment 
especially 
in 
to  honour 
slower 
reached 
A/66/PV.32
traditional  aid 
In  addition,  private-sector 

As President of the G-8 in 2010, Canada ensured 
that  African  issues  were  a  key  part  of  the  agenda. 
Consultations  with African  countries  in  the  lead  up  to 
the G-8 Summit helped to shape the Muskoka Initiative 
on  maternal,  newborn  and  child  health,  which  will 
generate  funds  reaching  more  than  $7  billion,  with 
most  of  Canada’s  contribution  to  the  Initiative  being 
allocated to Africa.  

investment,  which 
plays a crucial role in Africa’s development, has added 
to  Canada’s 
to  Africa.  Export 
Development  Canada  has  added 
its  support  for 
businesses with over Can$1.3 billion worth of business 
in  sub-Saharan Africa.  More  precisely,  it  has  assisted 
194  Canadian  companies  in  38  countries  in  Africa  in 
2010.  That  same  year,  Canadian  bilateral  trade  with 
Africa  reached  almost  $13  billion  in  2010,  a  72.5  per 
cent increase over the past five years. 

When it comes to corporate social responsibility, 
Canada  not  only  encourages  Canadian  companies  to 
abide  by  strict  standards,  it  insists  on  it.  To  further 
encourage  Canadian  investment  in Africa,  we  need  to 
encourage  our  African  partners  to  continue  to  work 
toward reforming their business environments to create 
more transparent rules and better governance. 
(spoke in English) 
Canada  sees  the  development  of  key  African 

multilateral institutions, such as the African Union, the 
United  Nations  Economic  Commission  for Africa  and 
the  African  Development  Bank,  as  vehicles  to  help 
achieve an enabling environment for stability, regional 
integration, and socio-economic development. 

the  African  Peer 
Review  Mechanism  as  a  key  initiative  in  promoting 
African  ownership  and  accountability  for  democratic 
governance  and  economic  management,  and  we  have 
contributed  over  $5  million  to  the  United  Nations 
Development Programme Trust Fund.  

Canada  also  maintains  a  strong  commitment  to 
regional  and  multilateral  initiatives  to  advance  global 
malaria  prevention  and  control  efforts.  In  September 
2010, Prime Minister Harper announced that, with our 
contribution  of  $540  million  to  the  Global  Fund  to 
Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria,  Canada’s 
contribution to date will rise to more than $1.5 billion. 
That  is  the  single  largest  contribution  by  Canada  to  a 
global health organization.  
Canada  strongly  supports 
11-53871 

25 

for 
and 
continental 
to  be  necessary 
concern,  while  devastating 
A/66/PV.32 


Canada  continues  to  engage  with  our  African 
counterparts  to  work  towards  solutions  to  protracted 
conflicts  across  the  continent,  both  through  direct 
bilateral  contacts  and  through  our  engagement  in 
support 
regional  African 
institutions such as the African Union (AU). Although 
challenges remain, those organizations are increasingly 
demonstrating clear capacity and leadership to address 
peace and security challenges on the continent. 

Despite the peaceful secession of South Sudan on 
9  July  2011,  the  security  situation  in  both  the  Sudan 
and  South  Sudan  is  fragile,  particularly  along  their 
shared border. The contested region of Abyei remains a 
deep 
conflict  has 
re-emerged  in  the  border  states  of  Southern  Kordofan 
and Blue Nile, severely affecting over 300,000 people. 
Humanitarian  access  to  affected  populations  in  those 
two  states  remains  severely  constrained.  International 
support  continues 
to  address 
outstanding  North-South  issues,  the  fragile  political 
situation  in  both  countries  and  the  conflicts  in  Darfur 
and along the border. 

Since  2006,  Canada  has  contributed  over 
$885 million  in  support  of  peace  and  humanitarian 
objectives in the two Sudans, including support for the 
implementation 
Peace 
Agreement and the Darfur peace process, as well as for 
three 
peacekeeping 
missions.  Canada  fully  supports 
the  considerable 
engagement  and  contribution  that  the  African  Union 
and African countries are making to enhance peace and 
security  in  the  two  Sudans,  most  notably  through  the 
African  Union  High-level  Implementation  Panel,  the 
United  Nations  Interim  Security  Force  for  Abyei  and 
the African Union-United Nations Hybrid Operation in 
Darfur. 
In  the  Great  Lakes  region,  Canada  continues  to 

support  regional  peace  and  stability 
the 
International  Conference  on  the  Great  Lakes  Region 
(ICGLR), which implements regional solutions to deal 
with  the  complex  challenges  there. As  co-chair  of  the 
Group  of  Friends  and  Special  Envoys  to  the  ICGLR, 
Canada is a strong supporter of the Lusaka Declaration 
endorsed  by  the  ICGLR  heads  of  State  in  December 
2010,  emphasizing  the  current  momentum  in  the  fight 
against the illegal exploitation of natural resources. 

the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo have totalled $350 million since 
Security  Council-mandated 
the  Comprehensive 
contributions 
Canada’s 
through 
of 
to 
to  be 
Canada 
including 
is  estimated 
for  emergency 
is  concerned  by 
for  humanitarian  and 
2006, 
long-term 
development assistance, support to the United Nations 
Organization  Stabilization  Mission  in  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  support  for  the  2011 
elections. 

Finally, Canada remains greatly concerned by the 
humanitarian crisis arising from the severe drought that 
is  being  felt  throughout  the  Horn  of Africa.  So  far  in 
2011, Canada has contributed more than $72 million to 
humanitarian  agencies 
lifesaving 
assistance to those in need in the region. In addition, in 
July  this  year,  Canada  established  the  East  Africa 
Drought  Relief  Fund,  to  which  the  Government  of 
Canada  pledged  to  contribute  one  dollar  for  every 
dollar  an  individual  Canadian  donated  to  a  registered 
Canadian  charity  responding  to  the  drought  between 
6 July  and  16  September  2011.  The  preliminary  tally, 
as  of  October  4, 
just  over 
$70 million,  with  total  contribution  amounts  to  be 
verified  by  mid-October.  Once  that  is  completed,  the 
Government  of  Canada  will  contribute  an  equivalent 
amount to the Fund.  

that 
confront  Somalia,  including  lawlessness,  piracy  and 
the 
further 
exacerbated  the  effects  of  the  drought.  Canada  has 
been  actively  involved  in  efforts  to  bring  stability  to 
Somalia,  including  a  contribution  of  $1  million  to  the 
African Union Mission in Somalia Trust Fund.  

In closing, despite the many economic and social 
development  challenges  they  face,  African  countries 
have  made  great  strides  in  recent  years.  Canada  looks 
forward  to  continuing  to  work  with  our  African 
partners  and  the  international  community  towards 
realizing Africa’s full potential. 
Mr.  Sammis  (United  States  of  America):  The 

United  States  would 
the  Special 
Representative  of  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Sidi 
Diarra, and the Office of the Special Adviser on Africa, 
for  organizing  the  7  October  panel  discussion  on  the 
New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD) 
and 
and 
yesterday’s  briefing  in  advance  of  today’s  General 
Assembly consideration of those topics. 
important  African-owned  and 

African-led 
initiative  for  eradicating  poverty  and 
putting  African  economies  on  a  path  of  sustainable 
growth. The  United  States  fully  supports  the  common 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
conflict,  which  have 
the  problems 
longstanding 
NEPAD 
is  an 
like 
to 
thank 
26 

11-53871 


vision of African States for achieving the NEPAD goals 
and  objectives,  especially  in  the  areas  of  agriculture, 
infrastructure,  education,  health,  the  empowerment  of 
women,  and  the  environment.  We  also  welcome  the 
efforts  of  the  United  Nations,  the  African  Union,  the 
African  Development  Bank,  the  African  Peer  Review 
Mechanism  (APRM)  secretariat,  African  subregional 
organizations  and  international  partners  in  assisting 
African States to fully implement NEPAD. 

The United States welcomes the progress made in 
the  past  year  by  the  organizations  and  supporters  of 
NEPAD  in  areas  critical  to  economic  growth  and 
sustainable  development  highlighted  in  the  report 
(A/66/202). We  support Africa’s  efforts  to  enhance  its 
economic growth and enjoy the benefits of integration 
into 
the  global  economy.  Alongside  an  enabling 
business  environment,  progress  in  developing Africa’s 
infrastructure  is  especially  important  to  private-sector 
economic  growth  and  development.  We  commend  the 
NEPAD  Planning  and  Coordinating  Agency  for  its 
efforts,  alongside  those  of  the  African  Union,  the 
United Nations and the African Development Bank, to 
drive  and  secure 
the 
continent. We encourage NEPAD to continue its review 
of infrastructure projects, and its work in line with its 
strategic objectives. 
Food  security  remains  an  urgent  challenge  in 

to 
Africa.  The  United  States 
strengthening  agricultural  development  in  Africa,  and 
has committed $3.5 billion worldwide over three years 
through  its  global  hunger  and  food  security  initiative, 
Feed  the  Future.  The  United  States  is  encouraged  by 
the 
the  Comprehensive  Africa 
Agriculture  Development  Programme  (CAADP)  and 
NEPAD’s  efforts  to  increase  the  number  of  countries 
creating  country  compacts  so  as 
their 
agricultural  investment  goals  and  target  growth  rates. 
Our  Feed  the  Future  initiative  draws  on  CAADP 
principles and progress, both of which are essential to 
providing security against famine and malnutrition. 

The crisis in the Horn of Africa is the most severe 
humanitarian  emergency  in  the  world  today.  Tens  of 
thousands,  mostly  children,  have  already  died,  and 
750,000  more  Somalis  are  at  risk  of  death  in  coming 
months, 
humanitarian 
community  can  get  access  to  those  in  need  of  critical 
assistance.  NEPAD’s  efforts  serve  to  mitigate  the 
impact  of  the  current  crisis  and  provide  insurance 
against such crises occurring in the future. 
infrastructure  gains  across 
implementation  of 
international 
committed 
to  meet 
unless 
the 
is 
A/66/PV.32
growth 
policies 
towards 
economic 
institutions 
that  progress 
should 
investment 
sustained 
Such 
transparency, 

While  Africa  is  host  to  the  largest  number  of 
least-developed countries (LDCs), some African LDCs 
have  shown  strong  growth  over  the  past  decade.  To 
ensure 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  is  sustained,  we  must 
support  well-governed  African 
that 
to  generate 
promote  policies  enabling  economies 
broad-based, 
and 
include 
employment. 
accountability, 
in 
an 
entrepreneur-friendly  business  climate,  strengthened 
indigenous  capacity  for  innovation,  investment  in 
women  and  girls,  and  attention  to  basic  services, 
including health and education. 

With  regard  to  meeting  the  MDGs  in  Africa  by 
2015 and improving food security on the continent, the 
United  States  supports  an  improved,  comprehensive 
monitoring  mechanism.  Such  a  mechanism  should 
build  on  existing  processes  and  add  value  by 
leveraging  the  membership  and  contributions  of  the 
United Nations, as stated in the report of the Secretary-
General  during  the  previous  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  (A/65/152).  Such  a  mechanism  should  be 
practical,  effective  and  cost-neutral.  It  would  require 
the combined efforts of the United Nations system, the 
African  Development  Bank, 
non-governmental 
organizations (NGOs) and other African institutions to 
ensure comprehensive and authoritative results. 

The United States calls on the United Nations, the 
African Union and NEPAD to work together to ensure 
the  creation  of  a 
results-driven  process.  The 
Organization must ensure that the more than 25 United 
Nations agencies working alongside the African Union 
and  NEPAD  are  making  efficient  and  effective  use  of 
their  resources  and  are  responding  to  the  priorities  of 
the  African  Union  and  NEPAD.  We  expect  that  the 
Office of the Special Adviser to the Secretary-General 
on  Africa,  the  Economic  Commission  for  Africa  and 
the  United  Nations  Office  to  the  African  Union  will 
work  together  to  strengthen  the  regional  coordination 
mechanism.  It  is  also  important  that  the African  Peer 
Review Mechanism continue to function as envisioned. 
The  APRM  has  tremendous  potential  for  advancing 
good  governance  and  socio-economic  development  in 
Africa,  and  we  actively  encourage  continuation  of  the 
peer review process over the coming year. 

Today the Assembly is also addressing the agenda 
item on the  Decade to Roll Back Malaria. The United 
States  is  committed  to  addressing  the  prevention  and 
11-53871 

27 
living 
stability 
A/66/PV.32 

treatment of malaria in order to improve the health and 
well-being  of  citizens 
in  malaria-endemic 
settings,  particularly  young  children  and  pregnant 
women,  who  are  most  affected  by  this  devastating 
disease.  We  further  recognize  the  negative  impact  of 
malaria  on  household  incomes,  economic  and  social 
development  and  political 
in  affected 
countries. 

Through  its  Global  Health  Initiative,  the  United 
States will continue to lead in the fight against this and 
other  diseases  by  focusing  on  strengthening  health 
systems  and  on  broader  health  challenges,  including 
child  and  maternal  health,  family  planning  and 
neglected  tropical  diseases.  We  are  pleased  to  be  a 
leader  in  the  support  for  malaria-control  programmes 
through  the  President’s  Malaria  Initiative  (PMI),  and 
our  contributions  to  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS, 
Tuberculosis and Malaria. Through the PMI, which is a 
core  component  of  the  President’s  Global  Health 
Initiative,  we  have  made  a  $5  billion,  six-year 
commitment.  So  far,  we  have  spent  $300  million  in 
2009, $500 million in 2010 and $618 million in 2011. 
These  significant  funding  increases  have  allowed  the 
PMI  to  expand,  and  it  is  now  providing  malaria 
prevention  or 
than 
to  more 
50 million people in 19 focus countries in Africa. 

We  work  with  host  Governments,  international 
partners, NGOs, the private sector and faith-based and 
community groups to deliver indoor residual spraying, 
distribute 
ensure 
preventive  malaria  treatment  for  expectant  mothers, 
provide  prompt  and  accurate  diagnosis  and  treatment 
of  malarial  illness,  and  build  the  capacity  of  national 
malaria  control  programmes.  The  United  States 
contribution  to  the  Global  Fund  supports  in-country 
capacity-building and strengthening of health systems, 
as well as direct service delivery. 
We  encourage  all  donor  and  recipient  nations  to 

through 
support  global  malaria  control  efforts 
stronger 
appropriate 
financial  contributions  and 
political  commitments.  We  urge  affected  nations, 
especially  those  in  Africa,  to  increase  their  own 
domestic  spending  on  malaria  control  as  part  of  their 
overall  plans  to  boost  the  share  of  their  national 
budgets devoted to health. 
Mr. Núñez Mosquera (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 

Only yesterday, 10 October, our island commemorated 
a  central  event  in  the  formation  of  the  Cuban  nation. 
treatment  measures 
insecticide-treated 
bed 
nets, 

the  Cuban  people  had 
We celebrated the beginning, in 1868, of our first war 
of  independence.  That  historic  event  was  marked  by 
one  of  the  most  transcendental  acts  of  justice  in  our 
history,  when  Carlos  Manuel  de  Céspedes,  known  as 
the father of the Cuban nation, freed his slaves. 

Independence  and  the  African  heritage  are  thus 
indissolubly  linked  to  the  Cuban  national  identity. 
Originating in lands that today cover a large number of 
African countries, there came to our island more than a 
million  and  a  half  enslaved  Africans  of  various 
ethnicities:  Lucumi,  Carabalí,  Congolese,  Ganga, 
Mandingo, Mina, Bibi, Yoruba. That is why the people 
and  Government  of  Cuba  consider  so  important  the 
General  Assembly’s  declaration,  through  resolution 
64/169, of 2011 as the International Year for People of 
African Descent. Many seminars and conferences have 
attested  to  the  importance  of  this  for  Cuba.  In 
September, 
the  unique 
opportunity  to  celebrate  two  exceptional  events:  a 
meeting of filmmakers from Africa, the Caribbean and 
the diaspora, and the programming of the First Week of 
African  Cinema,  held  in  Havana.  I  am  sure  that  the 
works from the African continent were shown in nearly 
all provinces of our country.  

The Cuban people are the direct and natural heirs 
to  Africa’s  gallantry,  fearlessness  and  culture  of 
resistance.  For  centuries  they  have  heroically  fought 
against numerous challenges and threats, which endure 
to this day. The deepest internationalist convictions of 
the  Cuban  Revolution  have  enabled  our  country  to 
remain always on the side of the African peoples, from 
our unconditional support in the anti-colonial struggles 
to  cooperation  projects  in  many  spheres  of  economic 
and social development. 

More  than  381,000  Cuban  fighters  fought  for 
almost  three  decades  to  defend  the  integrity  and 
sovereignty  of  our  brother  African  nations,  without 
asking  for  anything  in  exchange.  They  returned  from 
Africa  with  only  the  bodies  of  their  fallen  comrades 
and the honour of having done their duty. Today more 
than 2,400 Cuban volunteers are serving in 35 African 
nations  to  promote  their  development  in  areas  as 
diverse  as  public  health,  education,  agriculture,  sports 
and construction, among others. 

Our  country  will  continue  to  provide  its  human 
capital and experience to help our African brothers and 
sisters.  In  just  the  Comprehensive  Health  Programme, 
close  to  1,120  Cuban  doctors  and  technicians  are 
11-53871 
28 



working in 23 African countries, providing services to 
more than 48 million people. 

In the context of international cooperation, Cuba 
has various projects with a number of African countries 
to  combat  malaria.  Cuba  is  collaborating  in  the 
production  of  vaccines,  biological  pest  controls  and 
biofertilizers.  It  is  developing  important  measures  in 
the plan to combat disease vectors, such as developing 
entomological  maps  for  the  early  warning  system  in 
various  African  countries  with  which  we  maintain 
cooperation.  Cuba  is  implementing  programmes  to 
develop  biolarvicides  in  those  countries,  with  advice 
from Cuban specialists.  

More  than  2,200  young  people  from  45  African 
countries are currently enrolled in our universities and 
polytechnic institutes. To date, more than 32,000 young 
people from that continent have graduated from Cuban 
schools with different specializations.  
Cuba  has  always  stood  with  Africa,  and  Africa 

has  always  stood  with  Cuba.  The  history  of  our 
relationship  in  the  most  diverse  spheres  is  proof  of 
that. 

There  is  an  intrinsic  contradiction  in  the  current 
international order. It is impossible to listen to certain 
bombastic  speeches  that  attempt  to  tell  us  what  our 
peoples  should  do,  while  they  simultaneously  force 
many  of  our  countries  to  spend  five  times  more 
resources  to  pay  back  shameful  external  debt  than  we 
spend on health and education programmes. 

There  must  be  an  end  to  wars  and  military 
interventions  supported  by  interventionist  doctrines 
that  violate 
intended 
primarily  to  guarantee  control  of  Africa’s  mineral 
resources 
the 
developed  countries.  Rich  countries, 
instead  of 
continuing  to  bomb African  soil,  should  once  and  for 
all  meet 
their  modest  commitments  for  official 
development aid. 

Moreover, it is high time to end the unjust system 
of patents and trade that is hindering the development 
of African  nations.  Cuba  will  continue  to  support  the 
African  Union 
cooperation 
mechanisms  as  they  pursue  their  own  solutions  to 
African problems.  

All Africa needs from the United Nations and the 
international community is a comprehensive focus on a 
solution  to  problems  that  relate  to  the  peace,  security 
the  powerful  multinationals  of 
law  and  are 
international 
regional 
and 
all 
to 
A/66/PV.32
and  development  of  the  continent.  We  are  not  calling 
for  paternalism 
towards  Africa,  but  rather  equal 
opportunities  as  part  of  a  fairer  and  more  equitable 
international order.  

The  African  people  have  the  right  to  peace  and 
sustainable  development.  That  is  what  is  needed  for 
Africa  and  the  rest  of  the  developing  nations,  so  that, 
in a peaceful context, we can meet the challenges that 
our  people  face. Above  all, Africa  needs  and  deserves 
solidarity and respect. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  In 

accordance  with  resolution  2011  (XX),  adopted  on 
11 October  1965,  and  decision  56/475  of  15  August 
2002, I now call on the observer for the African Union. 
Mr.  Mayaki  (African  Union):  Permit  me  first  to 

extend  my  congratulations 
to  Ambassador  Nassir 
Abdulaziz Al-Nasser on his election as President of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session.  I  also 
congratulate the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, 
on  his  reappointment.  On  behalf  of  the Agency  of  the 
New Partnership for Africa’s Development (NEPAD), I 
hope  his  10  years  will  contribute  to  the  promotion  of 
closer  and  more  meaningful  global  cooperation  and 
move 
the  New 
Partnership for Africa’s Development. 
I  am  most  honoured  to  address  this  body  on  the 

tenth 
occasion  of 
anniversary  of  NEPAD.  In  July  2001,  in  Lusaka, 
African  leaders  took  a  major  step  towards  inspiring 
change. 
in  Africa’s 
transformation agenda.  

As Africa’s strategic framework for development 
and  the  flagship  programme  of  the  African  Union, 
NEPAD  is  the  embodiment  of  Africa’s  rebirth  and 
renaissance.  For  10  years,  African  countries  have 
implemented  comprehensive  political  and  socio-economic 
reforms, driven at the continental level by the African 
Union. This is to achieve the overarching objective of 
placing  Africa  on  the  path  of  sustainable  growth  and 
development. 

Africa  has  demonstrated  remarkable  resilience. 
We have nurtured and produced our own development 
agenda  through  the  expression  of  NEPAD.  We  are 
resolved  to  achieve  the  full  implementation  of  that 
agenda. Africa  is  taking  full  control  and  ownership  of 
that  development  agenda,  driven  by  the  shared  values 
of ownership, leadership and partnership. This is based 
It  was  a  major  milestone 
the  commemoration  of 
implementation  of 
forward 
the 
the 
11-53871 

29 
NEPAD 
remains 
changing 
active 
in 
A/66/PV.32 

on the African Union vision of an integrated, forward-
looking,  prosperous,  dynamic  and  peaceful  Africa, 
representing a dynamic force in the global arena.  

Since  the  turn  of  the  millennium,  Africa  has 
recorded  economic  growth  and  made  significant 
progress  in  political  governance  and  macroeconomic 
performance. That growth, however, needs to be more 
inclusive.  Indeed, Africans  have  been  emboldened  by 
that  progress,  through  the  wind  of  change  that  has 
contributed  to  shaping  the  new  Africa.  Under  the 
platform of the African Union, the continental renewal 
strategy  has  purposefully  addressed  the  development 
challenges  of  the  past  and  is  looking  ahead  to  a  new 
Africa.  NEPAD  has  served  as 
the  catalyst  for 
development.  We  have  charted  a  new  development 
pathway  that  represents  a  departure  from  the  old 
development  model.  The  reality  is  that  Africa  has 
changed, and is changing. 

the 
development  paradigm  on  the  continent.  NEPAD  is 
now  fully  integrated  into  the  structures  and  processes 
of the African Union. The NEPAD Agency now serves 
as  the  technical  body  of  the  African  Union.  This 
institutionalization  of  NEPAD  has  given 
further 
impetus to the implementation of the NEPAD agenda. 

The international community must therefore step 
up  support  for Africa’s  needs  and  priorities.  Over  the 
past  decade,  Africa  adopted  continental  policy 
frameworks  to  accelerate  development  and  regional 
integration. Through NEPAD, Africa is advancing good 
governance  in  all  of  its  ramifications  under  the 
umbrella  of  the  African  Peer  Review  Mechanism, 
which began in 2003. This unique voluntary instrument 
of  peer  exchanges  and  review  at  the  highest  political 
level  among  30  participating  African  countries  is 
leading  the  way  on  governance  reforms.  Other  top 
priorities have been clearly defined, for example in the 
Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme  and  the  Programme  for  Infrastructure 
Development 
is  spearheading 
investment plans in agriculture and food security. 

In  the  area  of  infrastructure,  African  leaders 
endorsed  the  African  Union  and  NEPAD  Presidential 
Infrastructure Champion Initiative to promote political 
sponsorship  in  driving  the  implementation  of  national 
and  regional  infrastructure.  In  addition,  we  support 
reinforcing  development 
African  Governments 
planning  as  a  formidable 
the 
in  Africa.  NEPAD 
tool  for  ensuring 
in 

remain 
International  partners 
sustainability of the gains made over the past decade in 
Africa. 

What  remains  to  be  done  is  for  development 
partners  to  continue  to  work  together,  and  within  the 
United  Nations,  to  support  the  implementation  of 
Africa’s priorities. We must renew our efforts to send a 
powerful and positive message to the rest of the world 
that Africa is committed to its development agenda for 
transformation.  The  African  Union  and  its  NEPAD 
programme are part of that equation. 
fundamentally 

important  to  Africa.  Promoting  market  access  for 
African  products  and  diversification  are  critical  to 
achieving sustainable and lasting economic growth. We 
must  work  harder  to  change  the  current  multilateral 
trading  system  towards  a  more  equitable  and  fair 
regime. Significantly, emerging economies in the South 
have  become  increasingly strategic  partners  for Africa 
and  have  contributed  to  reducing  its  dependence  on 
traditional export markets. 

Specifically,  trade  negotiations  under  the  Doha 
Development Round should be accelerated and tailored 
much more to meet the special needs of Africa. Foreign 
direct  investment  (FDI)  is  an  important  source  of 
growth,  and  African  countries  have  undertaken 
numerous  reforms  to  improve  the  investment  climate. 
As a result, FDI increased throughout the past decade, 
peaking at $72 billion in 2008. 

The  international  community  should  consider 
policy  measures  to  ensure  that  resource  extraction  is 
beneficial  to  the  host  country  so  that  resources  are 
transformed  into  productive  assets  and  can  contribute 
to  long-term  growth.  That  is  the  core  message  of  the 
Africa Mining Vision 2050. 

A  critical  factor  in  the  changing  development 
landscape  is  the  primacy  of  domestic  resources  for 
Africa’s  development.  Although  aid  has  been  an 
important source of development financing in the past, 
Africa is moving beyond aid to achieve self-sustaining, 
private  sector-led  growth.  For  instance,  internally 
generated  revenue  in  Africa  grew  significantly,  from 
$129  billion  in  2002  to  $472  billion  in  2008.  Overall, 
domestic  revenue  represented  84  per  cent  of  total 
sources of financing for Africa in 2009. 

The imperative to move beyond aid will therefore 
lead  to  reducing  dependency  on  aid,  and  thereby 
facilitate  the  implementation  of  NEPAD’s  vision  of 
30 

11-53871 
and 
to  move 
is  evolving  on 
and  development 
the  continent.  Africa 


the 
sustainable  growth 
continent’s  desire 
towards  development 
effectiveness. The  ongoing  transformation  will  benefit 
greatly from this exit strategy on aid and redirect focus 
to the viability of FDI, public-private partnerships and 
raising domestic resources for development. 

Africa is the continent of the future. Over the past 
decade,  Africa’s  development  landscape  has  changed 
for the better. A new story of steady transformation and 
growth 
is 
reaffirming  its  commitment  to  a  global  and  balanced 
partnership with the rest of the world as the continent’s 
vision  lends  credence  to  the  growth  potential  of 
development. This also reflects the NEPAD vision and 
its  continued  relevance  and  highlights  the  modest 
successes in implementing NEPAD. 

We  are  reinforcing  the  need  to  effectively  use 
both internal and external resources so as to attain the 
much-desired  development  outcomes  and  impact.  The 
partnership  focus  of  NEPAD  was  a  clarion  call  to  the 
rest of Africa that our futures were inseparable and that 
our  fate  was  a  collective  one.  Across  the  continent, 
Africans  declared  that  they  would  no  longer  allow 
themselves to be conditioned by circumstances. While 
the  frontiers  of  development  are  being  redefined  by 
new  opportunities,  emerging  actors  and  creative 
relationships,  Africa 
embracing  new 
orientations and innovations. 

to  serve  as  a 
fundamental  contributor  to  global  economic  recovery 
and stability. We  aspire to  become a growth pole, and 
not  to  be  confined  to  perpetually  managing  poverty. 
Development assistance should therefore be directed at 
Africa’s  real  economy  to  enhance  its  present  growth 
path,  while  ensuring 
involvement  and 
participation of an empowered private sector and civil 
society. 
The  continent 
is  committed 
itself 
is 
the 
full 
A/66/PV.32

We call for the strengthening of partnership with 
the  international  community  represented  here  at  the 
United  Nations.  We  are  especially  appreciative  of  the 
sustained  support  of  the  Office  of  the  Special Adviser 
on  Africa,  the  United  Nations  Economic  Commission 
for  Africa, 
the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  and  all  United  Nations  agencies  for  the 
implementation of the NEPAD agenda. 
(spoke in French) 
This will help Africa to firmly secure its future. More 
than  ever  before,  Africans  are  optimistic  about  their 
bright prospects for growth and prosperity. The African 
continent is ready to play its role on the global stage so 
as to achieve its agenda of development effectiveness. 


had 
been 
twenty-nine  members  of 
Programme of work 
The Acting President (spoke in French): I would 

like 
to  make  an  announcement  concerning 
the 
consideration  of  agenda  item  114,  sub-items  (a), 
“Election  of  twenty  members  of  the  Committee  for 
Programme  and  Coordination”;  (b),  “Election  of  the 
members  of  the  International  Law  Commission”;  and 
(c),  “Election  of 
the 
Governing Council of the United Nations Environment 
Programme”,  which 
for 
Wednesday,  16  November.  Those  elections  will  now 
take place on Thursday, 17 November, in the morning. 

In  order  to  facilitate  the  election  of  members  of 
the  International  Law  Commission,  and  in  accordance 
with  the  established  practice,  the  General  Assembly 
will  take  an  advance  decision  on  the  matter  of 
requesting the Secretariat to issue a consolidated list of 
candidates  reflecting  all  submissions  and  changes 
received  so  far.  It  is  my  intention  to  consult  the 
Assembly 
regard  on  Monday  morning, 
17 October 2011. 


  The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m. 
scheduled 
this 
in 
11-53871 

31 
