
A/66/PV.22
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

22nd plenary meeting 
Saturday, 24 September 2011, 9 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 








  In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Körösi 
(Hungary), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m. 

Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate 



  Address by Mr. Pakalitha Bethuel Mosisili, 
Prime Minister and Minister for Defence of the 
Kingdom of Lesotho  
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister for Defence of the Kingdom of Lesotho. 

Mr.  Pakalitha  Bethuel  Mosisili,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Defence  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Lesotho, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Pakalitha  Bethuel 
Mosisili,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Defence  of 
the  Kingdom  of  Lesotho,  and  inviting  him  to  address 
the General Assembly. 
Mr. Mosisili (Lesotho): At the very outset, allow 

me to congratulate Mr. Al-Nasser on his well-deserved 
election  to  the  office  of  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-sixth session. I assure him of my 
delegation’s full support during his tenure. Let me also 
pay fitting tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Joseph Deiss, 
for the commendable manner in which he led the work 
of the General Assembly during the sixty-fifth session.  
re-election  was  a 

Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  also  deserves  our  heart 
congratulations  on  his  reappointment  as  Secretary-
General.  His  unanimous 
true 
reflection  of  the  confidence  that  all  Member  States 
have in him. 

I  also  wish  to  express  my  profound  joy  at 
witnessing the Republic of South Sudan join the ranks 
of  the  Members  of  the  United  Nations.  We  welcome 
this new Member and extend our hand in friendship. 

This sixty-sixth session of the General Assembly 
once  again  provides  us  with  an  opportunity  to  reflect 
on  the  overall  situation  in  the  world.  The  world 
continues  to  experience  numerous  challenges.  The 
target  date  for  the  attainment  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  is  fast  approaching,  yet  the  world 
continues  to  be  overwhelmed  by  unending  hurdles  on 
the path towards their achievement.  

least  developed 
the 
countries  are  yet  to  be  fully  integrated  into  global 
markets. 
degradation, 
compounded  by 
the  effects  of  climate  change, 
continues  to  adversely  affect  ecosystems,  agriculture, 
water  resources  and  energy  supplies.  HIV  and  AIDS 
have  not  relented  in  decimating  whole  nations.  The 
promotion  of  the  principles  of  democracy  and  good 
governance,  the  protection  of  fundamental  human 
rights, and the abuse of power in international relations 
continue to present challenges. 

As if this were not enough, terrorism continues to 
torment  us. Along  with  the  other  challenges,  this  is  a 
fight  that  we  collectively  must  win.  Terrorism  is  a 
Despite  globalization, 
environmental 
Rapid 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-51360 (E) 
*1151360* 

the 
on 

under 
Treaty 
A/66/PV.22 

transnational  problem  that  cannot  be  left  to  one  State 
alone to confront. All Member States must cooperate in 
addressing  and  eliminating  this  menace.  The  biggest 
challenge  that  we  face  in  the  post-Cold  War  era  is  to 
ensure that terrorists do not lay their hands on weapons 
of mass destruction.  

In  this  regard,  we  reiterate  our  call  for  the  total 
elimination  of  all  nuclear  weapons.  We  urge  the 
nuclear  weapon  States  to  remain  faithful  to  their 
commitments 
the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT).  We 
further  call  on  those  Member  States  that  have  not 
joined  the  NPT  to  do  so  without  further  delay. 
However,  it  would  be  illogical  to  ask  non-nuclear 
States  to  shun  the  proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons, 
while States that possess them continue to perfect new 
generations  of  such  weapons  and  to  threaten  their  use 
at the slightest opportunity. 

Some States Members of this global Organization 
continue  to  experience  either  internal  or  external 
conflicts  of  significant  proportions.  The  international 
community  has  not  been  consistent  in  its  approach  to 
the  management  of  these  conflicts.  In  some  countries, 
the 
the 
Security  Council,  has  been  swift  and  decisive  in 
intervening  militarily.  In  other  countries,  the  same 
international  community  has  preferred  mediation,  and 
in  yet  still  others  it  has  turned  a  blind  eye,  at  best 
leaving 
to 
unilaterally threaten the imposition of sanctions. 

It is against this background that we welcome the 
theme of our general debate, “The role of mediation in 
the settlement of disputes by peaceful means”. Indeed, 
the  relevance  and  appropriateness  of  this  theme  at  the 
present  juncture  in  international  relations  is  beyond 
doubt.  In  addressing  this  theme,  we  start  from  the 
premise 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes 
through  mediation  lies  at  the  heart  of  the  work  of  the 
United  Nations.  However,  the  United  Nations  has  not 
sufficiently  used  mediation  as  a  tool  for  conflict 
resolution.  

the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  order  through 
the  Security  Council.  Consequently,  the  Council  is 
expected  to  take  a  leading  role  in  the  settlement  of 
disputes  through  mediation.  In  so  doing,  the  Council 
must adopt the multilateral approach. Such an approach 
is the only way to guarantee transparency, impartiality 
international  community,  acting 
The  United  Nations 
is  charged  with 
its  members 
to  some  of 
the  mantle 
through 
that 
in 
role 
However, 
the  primary 
the  parties  and 
the  process  by 
and  ownership  of 
the  general 
membership  of  the  United  Nations.  Mediation  must 
have as its priority the peaceful settlement of disputes, 
the  reconciliation  of 
the  future 
sustainability  of  peace  and  stability.  Peace  that  is 
imposed  without  consulting  all  parties  to  conflicts 
cannot  be  sustainable.  Bias  and  abuse  of  military 
power  to  influence  the  outcome  of  mediation  in 
conflicts  will  quickly  erode  the  credibility  of  the 
United  Nations  as  an  honest  mediator  and  will 
reinforce perceptions of ulterior motives. 

The  Kingdom  of  Lesotho  is  a  strong  believer  in 
the  principle  of  subsidiarity.  It  is  common  knowledge 
that 
the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security reposes in the Security 
Council.  However,  cooperation  and  coordination 
between  the  Council  and  regional  organizations,  in 
terms of Chapter VIII of the United Nations Charter, is 
key to resolving conflicts speedily. The United Nations 
must  empower  and  support  the  efforts  of  regional 
structures and organizations, which in all cases have a 
comparative advantage in mediating. 

the  Security  Council  can  better 
discharge this function only if it is more representative 
of  the  membership  of  the  United  Nations.  A  more 
representative  Security  Council  will  take  into  account 
all  our  aspirations,  and  its  decisions  will  command 
legitimacy.  Consequently,  we  continue  to  call  for  the 
early  and  comprehensive  reform  of 
the  Security 
Council in order to make it more representative of the 
Member  States.  It  is  simply  baffling,  if  not  appalling, 
to see how this all-important issue of Security Council 
reform is being deliberately stymied. 

The settlement of conflicts through mediation has 
been put to the test, and its successes are well recorded 
in  the  annals  of  history.  The  peaceful  settlement 
through  mediation  of  the  conflict  in  the  Republic  of 
Kenya  in  2007  is  a  typical  example.  It  should  be 
recalled  that,  in  Kenya,  a  group  of  eminent  persons 
from Africa  worked  together  with  the  United  Nations 
to broker a peaceful solution to the political stalemate 
that  resulted  from  the  disputed  parliamentary  and 
presidential elections of 2007. That solution resulted in 
the 
stable 
Government.  

Secondly, a specific subregional mediation by the 
Southern  Africa  Development  Community  yielded 
fruitful results in Zimbabwe, as did that of the African 
formation  of 
all-inclusive 
and 
an 
2 

11-51360 


Union  (AU)  in  Burundi.  Furthermore,  we  witnessed  a 
successfully mediated solution bring an end to Africa’s 
longest civil war in the Sudan.  

The  world  rejoiced  together  with  the  people  of 
South  Sudan  in  July  2011  upon  their  attainment  of 
independence  as  a  sovereign  nation.  The  remarkable 
mediation  efforts  of  the  African  Union,  with  the 
support  of  the  entire  international  community,  helped 
in  consolidating  peace  in  South  Sudan.  Indeed,  the 
mediation  efforts  are  continuing  in  that  sister  country 
to ensure the maintenance of peace in the post-conflict 
period. 

It  is  our  humble  but  considered  opinion  that, 
where  mediation  has  been  given  a  chance,  lives  have 
been saved. The cost in resources, be they financial or 
human,  has  been  minimal,  and  the  destruction  of 
infrastructure  avoided.  Above  all, 
reconciliation 
between the warring factions has been realized. 
Strangely,  and  despite  having  mediation  at  its 

disposal,  the  Security  Council  has  at  times  preferred 
military  intervention.  I  may  also  add  that,  at  times, 
some  members  of  the  international  community  have 
unilaterally 
interventions. 
Whenever  military  intervention  has  been  preferred,  it 
has not enjoyed the support of the general membership 
of  the  United  Nations.  Needless  to  say,  the  impact  of 
military  intervention  in  conflicts  is  catastrophic  for 
innocent  civilians,  and  it  destroys  infrastructure  and 
the economies of countries.  

In this regard, Libya may be used as a case study. 
The  African  Union  developed  a  comprehensive  road 
map that would have led to a peaceful settlement of the 
Libyan  crisis  by the Libyan people themselves. Sadly, 
we witnessed the deliberate marginalization of the AU 
in  the  resolution  of  that  crisis.  Military  intervention 
was hastily adopted as an option, and the results of this 
kind  of  intervention  are  a  matter  of  record  for  all  to 
see, and indeed will be with us for a long time to come. 

Nevertheless, the opportunity for all stakeholders 
to  work  together  on  consolidating  peace  in  Libya  has 
not  eluded  us. The African  Union  road  map  for  peace 
remains as relevant today as it was at the beginning of 
the conflict. The United Nations and the African Union 
must work together to bring about the consolidation of 
peace, national reconciliation and the establishment of 
an  all-inclusive  Government  in  Libya.  The  United 
Nations,  and  not  just  a  few  countries  with  vested 
interests,  should  take  the  lead  in  the  reconstruction  of 
in  military 
engaged 
A/66/PV.22
the 
towards 
realization  of  a 
that  country.  This  transparent  and  unbiased  approach 
alone can ensure that there is no relapse into conflict in 
Libya. 

We must employ all assets at our disposal so as to 
fully exploit mediation as a tool for conflict prevention 
and  resolution.  The  good  offices  of  the  Secretary-
General  in  conflict  prevention  and  resolution  are  an 
instrument  that  may  be  very  effective  in  mediating 
conflicts. Those offices must be strengthened and given 
the  human  and  other  resources  necessary  to  undertake 
mediation early enough to prevent conflicts and to deal 
effectively with those that are ongoing. In that regard, 
we  encourage  the  mediation  efforts  of  the  Secretary-
General 
free  and 
independent Western Sahara. 

By  the  same  token,  we  are  convinced  that  the 
solution  to  the  settlement  of  the  question  of  Palestine 
will  be  attained  through  genuine  mediation.  The 
stalemate  in  the  negotiations  is  a  source  of  grave 
concern to my country. We urge all the parties involved 
to  resuscitate  the  negotiations  between  the  State  of 
Palestine and Israel without any further delay.  
Similarly,  we  must  explore  the  possibility  of  a 

mediated solution to the problem between the Republic 
of  Cuba  and  the  United  States  of  America.  The 
international community has been unanimous in its call 
for  the  lifting  of  the  economic  and  commercial 
embargo imposed upon Cuba, yet the problem persists. 
Indeed,  Cuba,  like  all  Member  States,  is  entitled  to 
freedom of international trade and navigation. 
I conclude by pointing out that the crises we face 

today provide us with an opportunity for introspection 
and  to  chart  the  way  forward.  The  obstacles  that  lie 
ahead  of  us  are  not  insurmountable.  We  must  build  a 
more robust multilateral organization that is responsive 
to  the  modern-day  needs  of  our  peoples.  A  United 
Nations that is able to work with its partners, including 
regional  and  subregional  organizations,  and  all  of  its 
Member States will surely achieve much success in all 
of  its  endeavours.  With  renewed  political  will  and 
determination, let us commit ourselves to the principles 
of  mediation,  as  enshrined  in  the  United  Nations 
Charter,  and  to  the  peaceful  settlement  of  all  disputes 
and conflicts. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  for  Defence  of  the  Kingdom  of  Lesotho  for 
the statement he has just made. 
11-51360 

3 
A/66/PV.22 





I  hereby  wish 
  Address by Mr. Igor Lukšić, Prime Minister 
of Montenegro 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear an address by the Prime Minister of Montenegro. 

Mr.  Igor  Lukšić,  Prime  Minister  of  Montenegro, 
was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Igor  Lukšić,  Prime 
Minister  of  Montenegro,  and  inviting  him  to  address 
the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Lukšić  (Montenegro):  It  is  truly  an  honour 

for me to address the Assembly at this global forum on 
behalf of Montenegro and to reiterate our commitment 
to  the  principles  and  purposes  of  the  United  Nations 
and its Charter. 

to  congratulate  Mr.  Nassir 
Abdulaziz Al-Nasser on his election as President of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session,  and  to 
pledge  the  full  support  of  the  Montenegrin  delegation 
as  he  carries  out  his  demanding  task.  I  also  wish  to 
thank  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss  for  his  valuable  contribution 
and  for  strengthening  the  central  role  of  the  United 
Nations  in  the  global  system  during  his  presidency  of 
the General Assembly. 

I  would  like  to  congratulate  Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon on his reappointment, which I am certain 
will 
reforms 
undertaken  to  build  a  more  efficient  and  coherent 
United  Nations  system,  and  thus  a  safer  and  more 
prosperous world. 
Two  months  ago,  Montenegro  was  replaced  by 

South  Sudan  as 
the  youngest  Member  of  our 
Organization. I wish to congratulate South Sudan on its 
independence  and  its  full-fledged  membership  in  this 
body. I truly believe that this milestone will contribute 
to  security  and  serve  as  a  good  starting  point  for  the 
development of good-neighbourly relations. 

We also support the democratization processes in 
North Africa, as well as the actions taken by the United 
Nations  and  the  African  Union  in  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
Somalia, the Congo and other parts of Africa to further 
the overall progress of the entire continent. 
the  continuation  of 
result 
the 
in 

Mr.  Pakalitha  Bethuel  Mosisili,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Defence  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Lesotho, was escorted from the rostrum. 
In 
the 
the 
regional 
experience 
context  of 
implementation  of  overall 
the  European  Commission 

cooperation, 
Montenegro  has  contributed  to  overall  stability  in 
South-East  Europe  by  chairing  the  most  important 
regional initiatives, which has been a unique and rather 
challenging 
for  our  Administration. 
Montenegro is committed to further developing mutual 
understanding  and 
to  strengthening  all  forms  of 
cooperation  in  the  future.  Our  success  and  that  of  the 
countries of our region is the success of Europe, too. 

There is full consensus on the issue of European 
Union integration in Montenegro. We are aware of the 
fact that this process requires continuous contributions 
from  all  stakeholders  in  our  society.  I  am  convinced 
that  we  will  have  enough  will,  enthusiasm,  capacity 
and energy to tackle it during the forthcoming period. 
I hope and believe that persistent and committed 

work  on 
internal 
reforms,  based  on  the  seven  key  recommendations 
underlined  by 
and 
accompanied by a policy of good-neighbourly relations 
and regional and international cooperation, represent a 
solid  foundation  for  the  European  Commission  to 
recommend,  in  its  progress  report  to  the  European 
Council, that European Union (EU) accession talks be 
opened with Montenegro. 

the 
Euro-Atlantic  path  and  are  currently  preparing  our 
second  Annual  National  Programme  as  part  of  the 
NATO  membership  process.  The  progress  of  the 
Western Balkan countries towards European and Euro-
Atlantic integration is a key factor for regional stability 
and  lays  the  groundwork  for  long-term  economic 
prosperity. 

As a United Nations Member State and a reliable 
international  partner,  Montenegro  is  committed  to  the 
maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security. 
Consistent  with  its  capacities,  Montenegro  actively 
participates  in  United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions 
in Liberia and Cyprus, while also keeping in mind the 
regional security aspects. 

the  NATO-led 
International  Security  Assistance  Force,  we  directly 
contribute to the efforts of the international community 
to  ensure  lasting  peace  in  Afghanistan,  while  at  the 
same time supporting global efforts in the fight against 
terrorism.  Through  the  EU  ATALANTA  mission,  we 
have  joined  the  fight  against  piracy,  the  consequences 
taking  firm  steps  forward  on 
Through  our  participation 
We  are 
in 
4 

11-51360 
of 
to 
conflicts 
serious 
resolution 
lead 


of  which  have  also  been  suffered  by  Montenegrin 
sailors. 

Nevertheless,  in  order  to  prevent  new  conflicts 
that have the potential to cause humanitarian disasters 
and  put  additional  pressure  on  the  already-burdened 
peacekeeping  mission  contingents,  it  is  necessary  to 
strengthen  preventive  diplomacy  and  mediation 
activities  in  cases  of  potential  and  initiated  conflict. 
The  further  development  of  United  Nations  capacities 
in  this  domain  will  contribute  to  the  timely  and 
before 
peaceful 
their 
complexities 
international 
repercussions. 

In  that  regard,  Montenegro  strongly  supports  the 
peaceful  resolution  of  all  existing  conflicts,  especially 
those in the wider region of the Middle East and North 
Africa.  Priority  should  be  given  to  the  urgent  signing 
of  a  peace  agreement  between  Israel  and  Palestine, 
which  is  in  their  mutual  interest.  Only  if  both  sides 
refrain  from  violent  actions  will  room  be  created  for 
confidence-building  and  a  comprehensive  solution  to 
the Middle East issue, making Israel a safe country, to 
the benefit of both internationally recognized sides and 
meeting  the  prerequisites  for  Palestine  to  establish  a 
stable State.  
the  Security 

Council 
the 
international  community  aimed  at  stopping  human 
rights  violations 
legitimate 
aspirations  of  populations,  especially  in  Libya  and 
Syria. 

the 
universality of human rights and the inadmissibility of 
violating 
their 
protection  and  enhancement.  We  also  support  the 
Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights 
and  the  Human  Rights  Council,  to  which  we  have 
announced  our  candidature  for  the  period  2013-2015. 
Experience  that  Montenegro  gained  in  its  turbulent 
past, when it provided shelter to refugees, can serve as 
a 
political 
compromises aimed at securing peace in the region. In 
our  view, 
is  an 
important instrument for assessing the status of human 
rights in the world. 

I  wish  to  emphasize  our  support  of  the  work  of 
the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former 
the 
Yugoslavia,  and 
the  Universal  Periodic  Review 
Montenegro  also  supports  all 
resolutions  and  actions 
importance  of  all  of 
resolutions  promoting 
Montenegro  supports 
the  principles  of 
and 
fulfilling 
the 
taken  by 
them  or 
basis 
for 
achieving 
long-lasting 
the 
A/66/PV.22
to  preserving 
international  tribunals,  especially  when  it  comes  to 
systematic violations of fundamental human rights and 
freedoms. They not only serve as an example and guide 
for  national  courts,  but  they  also  function  as  a  clear 
deterrent to and inescapable destination for individuals 
who  ignore  the  rules  established  by  the  Geneva 
Conventions. 

Montenegro,  as  an  ethnically,  culturally  and 
religiously diverse society, is an active member of the 
Group  of  Friends  of  the  United  Nations  Alliance  of 
Civilizations  and  is  committed  to  the  fundamental 
principles  of  integration,  the  strengthening  of  civil 
society,  tolerance  and  the  fight  against  all  forms  of 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance. We 
are  determined  and  committed 
the 
fundamental values that civil society is based upon, no 
matter what the challenges are and no matter what the 
challenges that we, as a society and a State, will have 
to face in the future. 

Let  me  also  briefly  point  out  our  current 
economic  developments.  The  fact  that  we  are  a  small 
and open economy, and therefore vulnerable to changes 
in  the  global  economic  market,  resulted  in  the  global 
economic  and  financial  crisis  stalling  Montenegro’s 
economic 
the 
implementation  of  our  anti-crisis  economic  policy  we 
have  lessened  the  impact  of  the  global  crisis  and 
stopped  the  downward  trend  in  the  Montenegrin 
economy. 

That  crisis  confirmed  the  soundness  of  the  basic 
principles  of  our  economic  policy  —  focusing  on 
further  stabilization  of  public  finances,  improving  the 
business  environment  and  structural  reforms,  so  as  to 
establish  a  stable,  dynamic  and  competitive  economy 
in the long term and to improve the quality of life of all 
citizens of Montenegro. Despite being fully aware that, 
if  we  are  to  mount  an  adequate  response  to  the  crisis, 
we will have to make some difficult and unpopular cuts 
in order to create a new, sound basis for strengthening 
the  economy,  we  also  know  that  actions  taken  by  one 
stakeholder  alone,  no  matter  how  successful,  are 
insufficient. We all have to play a positive role in order 
to 
success, 
sustainability,  social  responsibility  and  solidarity  in 
this complex process. 

Accordingly,  we  must  not  stop  progress  towards 
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  the 
realization  of  which  creates  the  basis  for  the  further 
progress.  Nevertheless,  with 
right  balance 
among 
strike 
the 
11-51360 

5 

rights  and 
A/66/PV.22 

development  of  human 
fundamental 
freedoms  throughout  the  world.  The  fight  against 
poverty  and  diseases,  gender  equality,  protection  of 
mothers  and  children,  education,  environmental 
protection  and  sustainable  development  represent  the 
main  prerequisites  for  progress  and  prosperity  for  our 
societies and are high on our Government’s agenda. 

Montenegro  supports  pragmatic  reform  in  the 
United  Nations.  As  a  small  country,  it  is  especially 
interested in strengthening the authority and role of the 
General  Assembly  —  and  other  main  United  Nations 
bodies — and in improving its efficiency of operation. 
Increasing  representation  in  the  Security  Council  — 
including  granting  a  seat  to  the  Group  of  Eastern 
European  States  in  the  category  of  non-permanent 
member  —  would  result  in  a  functional  strengthening 
of  that  body,  improving  its  efficiency,  accountability 
and credibility, in accordance with the United Nations 
Charter.  A  modern  reform  process,  open  to  Member 
States  individually  or  to  groups  of  countries,  must  be 
based on a broad consensus on all five  key aspects of 
Security Council reform. I am sure that there is a way 
to  make  a  bridge  between  those  goals  and  other 
entities, such as the Group of 20, for instance. 

improved 
efficiency, its strengthened judiciary and administrative 
system,  its  fight  against  corruption  and  organized 
crime  and 
inclusive  society, 
Montenegro  and  the  resident  and  non-resident  United 
Nations  agencies  are  working  together  to  achieve  the 
strategic  goals  of  our  common  policy.  The  United 
Nations 
Resident 
Representative and the One United Nations programme 
have  given  an  opportunity  both  to  United  Nations 
agencies and State partners in the process to create and 
monitor  programme  activities  directly  and  on  equal 
footing,  and  to  adapt  programme  activities  to  the 
development needs of our country. 

At  the  same  time,  the  One  United  Nations 
programme is an opportunity for gradual reform in the 
operations  of  the  United  Nations  system,  creating  a 
simultaneous  and  well-coordinated  approach  that  will 
result,  among  other 
in  avoiding  overlaps 
between  United  Nations  agencies  and  in  achieving 
more efficient results in the implementation of national 
priorities. 

Montenegro  supports  nuclear  non-proliferation 
and  objects  to  further  expansion  of  the  number  of 
its  further  democratization, 
its  fostering  of  an 
Development 
programme 
things, 
its 
In 
to 
to  adhere 
technology 
countries  that  possess  nuclear  weapons.  Moreover,  we 
support all agreements of the nuclear Powers on mutual 
reduction  of  their  nuclear  capacities,  creating  a  safer 
world  for  existing  and  future  generations.  In  that 
context,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  the 
appeal he sent late last month, requesting all countries 
that  have  nuclear 
the 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty.  I  wish  to 
emphasize that Montenegro ratified the Convention on 
Cluster  Munitions  and  that  within  less  than  a  year  it 
destroyed  all  reserves  of  that  type  of  weapons,  thus 
confirming  again  its  commitment  to  the  principles  of 
non-proliferation. 

is  an  environmentally  conscious 
Montenegro 
State. That  is  a  bedrock  principle  of  our  Constitution. 
Based  on  that  commitment,  we  have  an  additional 
incentive to find solutions that are compatible with our 
sustainable  development  policy.  Our  strategy  for 
development  in  Montenegro  is  to  achieve  synergy 
between growth and employment, on the one hand, and 
social equality, the environment and natural resources, 
on the other.  

The  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development,  which  will  take  place  in  Rio  de  Janeiro 
in  2012,  represents  an 
to 
promote 
the  area  of 
sustainable development and an opportunity to make a 
comprehensive  evaluation  of  the  progress  made  in  the 
past  two  decades.  Montenegro,  as  a  member  of  the 
United  Nations  Commission 
Sustainable 
Development  from  2011  to  2014,  is  committed  to 
contributing to the success of that Conference with its 
constructive actions. 

Montenegro  is  especially  sensitive  to  climate 
change  issues.  There  are  numerous  potential  negative 
effects of climate change on Montenegro. A rise in sea 
level  and 
temperature  would  diminish  biological 
diversity.  I  therefore  believe  that  the  fight  against 
climate  change  requires  a  global,  coordinated  and 
decisive 
the 
principles  defined  in  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change and its Kyoto Protocol. 
The  Framework  Convention 
a  key 
multilateral  forum  for  global  action  in  the  area  of 
climate  change,  and  the  sixteenth  Conference  of  the 
Parties in Cancún confirms that a multilateral approach 
to  climate  change  management  under  United  Nations 
auspices can give concrete results. 
international  agreement,  based  on 
international  cooperation 
important  opportunity 
represents 
on 
in 
6 

11-51360 



Allow me to reiterate once again how honoured I 
am  to  participate  in  the  general  debate  of  this  global 
forum on behalf of Montenegro and, together with the 
representatives of 192 countries, to  contribute directly 
to  the  promotion  of  our  mutual  understanding  and 
peaceful  coexistence,  to  the  benefit  of  all  of  our 
nations. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Montenegro for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Igor  Lukšić,  Prime  Minister  of  Montenegro, 
was escorted from the rostrum. 



  Address by Ms. Iveta Radičová, Prime Minister 
of the Slovak Republic 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Slovak 
Republic. 

Ms. Iveta Radičová, Prime Minister of the Slovak 
Republic, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming Her Excellency Ms. Iveta Radičová, Prime 
Minister  of  the  Slovak  Republic,  and  inviting  her  to 
address the Assembly. 
Ms. Radičová (Slovak Republic): It is  a distinct 

honour  and  pleasure  for  me  to  address  the  General 
Assembly  at  the  outset  of  its  sixty-sixth  session.  This 
forum provides us with an unparalleled opportunity to 
strengthen,  through  dialogue,  our  concerted  efforts  in 
the quest for solutions to the mounting challenges that 
the  international  community  faces  today.  We,  the 
leaders  of  the  United  Nations,  are  expected  to  offer 
guidance and find solutions. 
the  extensive 

diplomatic  experience  of 
the 
Assembly,  and  under  his  able  leadership,  we  will  be 
able to make this session a successful one. I wish him 
every success in his demanding duties  and assure him 
of  my  delegation’s  full  support  and  assistance.  I  also 
wish  to  express  my  delegation’s  appreciation  and 
gratitude  for  the  exquisite  work  of  his  predecessor, 
Mr. Joseph  Deiss,  who  so  skilfully  guided  our 
proceedings during the sixty-fifth session. 

Let  me  also  join  others  in  paying  tribute  to  the 
remarkable  work  of  the  newly  reappointed  Secretary-
General, His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon. We deeply 
the  President  of 
I  am  convinced 
that,  given 
A/66/PV.22
value his eminent personal and diplomatic qualities and 
look  forward  to  working  with  him  during  his  next 
tenure. 

Slovakia warmly welcomes the Republic of South 
Sudan as a new member of the United Nations family. 
We  wish  South  Sudan  every  success  and,  above  all, 
peace, security and prosperity for its people. 

Her Excellency Ms. Dilma Rousseff, President of 
the  Federative  Republic  of  Brazil,  opened  her  speech 
with these words:  


“For the very first time in the history of the 
United  Nations,  a  female  voice  is  opening  the 
general  debate.  It  is  the  voice  of  democracy  and 
equality.” (A/66/PV.11)  
President  Rousseff  expressed  in  two  words  the  main 
challenge for the coming years: courage and sincerity. 
This  challenge  is  accurate  at  a  time  of  economic  and 
debt crisis. We have to say openly that we still do not 
have  adequate  solutions.  We  are  facing  common  risks 
in economy, governance and politics. 

Citizens all over the world expect leadership and 
a  mutual  synergy  of  economy  and  politics.  The 
majority  of  the  world’s  population  expects  economic 
growth,  prosperity  and  a  better  quality  of  life.  Those 
living  in  poverty  —  the  millions  of  people  without 
jobs,  without  water  and  without  food  —  expect  real 
answers,  quick  action  and  results  from  political 
leaders. 

What can such a small country as Slovakia do to 
address  these  challenges?  First,  it  has  to  do  its  own 
homework  in  stabilizing  the  economy.  That  means 
ensuring  our  pension  system’s  sustainability  through 
deep  reforms,  and  enacting  a  fiscal  responsibility  law 
that  will  ensure  that  fiscal  policy  is  responsible  to 
future  generations  and  counter-cyclical.  It  means 
labour market reforms that  support the creation of the 
new jobs the country badly needs, especially for some 
of  its  vulnerable  groups.  It  means  lowering  the 
administrative  burden  and  decreasing  barriers 
to 
entrepreneurship,  improving  the  predictability  of  the 
legal  environment,  and  ensuring  a  wider  use  of 
e-Government  services.  Of  course,  it  means  measures 
to  tackle  corruption  and  to  increase  transparency,  for 
example through a legal act ensuring that any contract 
concerning  the  use  of  public  funds  is  valid  only  if 
published on the internet. 
11-51360 

7 

for  successful 
A/66/PV.22 


The Slovak Republic is a small country, but it is a 
part  of  the  eurozone,  which  is  in  deep  economic 
trouble.  Courage  and  sincerity  are  most  needed  most 
these  days  in  Europe.  The  financial  crisis  and  its 
negative  influence  upon  the  entire  European  banking 
sector  have  clearly  shown  that  the  eurozone  was  not 
prepared  for  a  crisis.  The  chaos  in  addressing  these 
issues only deepened the general distrust and worsened 
the  subsequent  economic  recession.  The  majority  of 
European  Union  countries  did  not  use  the  good 
economic times to consolidate their budgets. Therefore, 
in  many  cases,  the  consequences  of  the  recession 
shifted public debt into dangerous territory. 

We need courage in the eurozone to return to the 
old  principles  that  established  the  European  Union, 
which  are  necessary 
international 
cooperation and integration. We need stricter European 
and  national  fiscal  rules.  We  need  to  institute  default 
controls,  and  we  need  new  rules  for  the  careful 
management of the financial sector. 

We need sincerity. We have to be honest with our 
citizens,  because  we  have  to  be  very  careful  that  the 
response  to  forcing  technical  solutions  to  the  debt 
crisis is not the escalation of nationalism and populism. 
There  is  a  chance  that  we  will  save  the  eurozone 
economically, but at the same time we  must minimize 
the  risk  of  losing  the  project  of  European  integration 
politically and devaluing it in the eyes of our voters. 

It is not just Europe; every region in the world is 
struggling today with serious economic difficulties. We 
live  in  a  global,  interdependent  reality  in  which  we 
cannot  afford  to  ignore  anybody’s  problems.  In  this 
regard, we believe that, as a member of the Economic 
and  Social  Council,  that  body  has  the  capacity  to 
contribute more significantly to our joint efforts. If it is 
to do that, we feel that it is urgent to adjust its mandate 
and  enhance  its  ability  to  react  more  swiftly  to  the 
economic and social needs of the world. 

In  times  of  dire  financial  restrictions  in  our  own 
national budgets, we, as the United Nations, also need 
to learn to do more with fewer resources. We welcome 
every  effort  that  the  Secretary-General  is  making  to 
utilize 
resources  with  maximum 
effectiveness and efficiency. 

Peace and security are ever harder to maintain in 
these harsh crisis times. One of Slovakia’s priorities in 
the  fight  against  international  terrorism  remains  the 
endeavour  to  move  forward  the  negotiations  on  the 
the  available 
the 
the  commitment 
true  expression  of 
Peacekeeping  missions  are  among 
comprehensive  convention  on  international  terrorism. 
With  regard  to  the  United  Nations  Global  Counter-
Terrorism  Strategy,  Slovakia  will  continue 
its 
implementation  through  concrete  projects,  as  we  have 
by  co-organizing  a  special  event  on  implementing  the 
United  Nations  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy  in 
Central  Asia,  held  in  Bratislava  in  December  2010. 
Respect for international law, human rights and the rule 
of  law  should  be  an  integral  part  of  the  fight  against 
international terrorism. 

the  most 
visible  and  successful  activities  of  the  United  Nations 
and 
to 
maintaining  peace  and  security  around  the  globe.  The 
Slovak  Republic  has  been  an  active  contributor  to  the 
United  Nations  forces  in  Cyprus  since  2001,  and  is 
involved  in  the  Middle  East.  In  recent  decades,  we 
have  witnessed  an  unprecedented  proliferation  of 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions.  They  have 
become  increasingly  in-demand,  their  mandates  are 
widening  and  their  management  is  becoming  more 
complex.  Slovakia  therefore  supports  every  measure 
aimed  at  increasing  their  effectiveness  and  efficiency 
given our truly constrained budgets. 

Peace  is  not  merely  the  absence  of  war.  Peace 
means  safety  in  all  areas  of  people’s  lives,  economic 
prosperity, social stability, respect for human rights and 
fundamental  freedoms,  access  to  health  care  and 
education, protection of the environment, and access to 
water  and  food.  There  is  no  chance  of  lasting  peace 
without  sustainable  development.  That  is  an  area  in 
which we must still do a great deal of work and make 
concerted  efforts.  Aid  from  Slovakia  —  a  small 
country —  has  since  2003  been  aimed  at  the  most 
troubled  regions  of  the  world.  Recently,  Slovakia  has 
been  providing  development  and  humanitarian  aid  in 
the  context  of  41  projects  to  help  starving  children  in 
Kenya,  deliver  food  and  water  in  Ethiopia;  provide 
humanitarian  help  in  South  Sudan;  assist  Pakistan 
following the terrible floods there; help refugees, from 
Libya 
technical 
assistance  for  countries  in  the  western  Balkans  and  in 
the Middle East. Slovakia is also helping to secure the 
democratization  process  in  Afghanistan  through  13 
new projects. 

We  need  to  focus  on  eliminating  the  primary 
causes  of  conflicts,  not  just  deal  hastily  with  their 
grave  consequences,  which,  sadly,  often  occur  only 
after  too  many  lives  have  been  destroyed.  No  effort 
to  Tunisia;  and  also 
to  provide 
8 

11-51360 
Slovakia 


should  be  spared 
in  exploring  all  political  and 
diplomatic  options  to  stop  conflicts  at  their  roots. 
Mediation  has  proved  to  yield  tangible  results.  I  want 
to  stress  the  important  role  of  women  in  these 
processes, as it is often underestimated.  

firm  supporter  of  effective 
multilateralism,  with  the  United  Nations  playing  a 
central  role.  Concentrated  efforts  help  create  just  and 
lasting solutions. 

This  will  be  yet  another  challenging  session  for 
all of us. It calls for a renewed, shared commitment to 
the fundamental principles and purposes of the United 
Nations Charter. We cannot afford to lose the ability to 
understand  one  another’s  needs  because  of  our  own 
domestic problems. In these hard times, I wish all of us 
enough 
necessary,  mutually 
to 
advantageous solutions. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Slovak Republic for the statement she has just made. 

Ms. Iveta Radičová, Prime Minister of the Slovak 
Republic, was escorted from the rostrum.  
strength 
is  a 
find 
 


  Address by Mr. Manmohan Singh, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of India  
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of India. 

Mr.  Manmohan  Singh,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of India, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Manmohan  Singh, 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  India,  and  inviting 
him to address the Assembly.  
Mr.  Singh  (India):  Allow  me  at  the  outset  to 

congratulate  Mr.  Al-Nasser  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General Assembly.  I  wish  to  assure 
him  of  India’s  full  cooperation  in  the  conduct  of  the 
sixty-sixth session of the Assembly. 

midst the new State of South Sudan. 

We  meet  during  this  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  a  time  of  great  uncertainty  and  profound 
change. Until a few years ago, the world had taken for 
granted 
the  benefits  of  globalization  and  global 
It  is  also  my  great  pleasure  to  welcome  in  our 
A/66/PV.22
interdependence.  Today  we  are  being  called  upon  to 
cope  with  the  negative  dimensions  of  those  very 
phenomena.  Economic,  social  and  political  events  in 
different  parts  of  the  world  have  coalesced,  and  their 
adverse  impact  is  now  being  felt  across  countries  and 
continents. 

The  world  economy  is  in  trouble.  The  shoots  of 
recovery  which  were  visible  after  the  economic  and 
financial  crisis  of  2008  have  yet  to  blossom.  In  many 
respects, the crisis has deepened even further. 
The  traditional  engines  of  the  global  economy, 

including  the  United  States,  Europe  and  Japan,  which 
are  also  the  sources  of  global  economic  and  financial 
stability,  are  today  faced  with  continued  economic 
slowdown.  Recessionary  trends  in  those  countries  are 
affecting  confidence  in  world  financial  and  capital 
markets.  These  developments  are  bound  to  have  a 
negative  impact  on  developing  countries,  which  also 
have  to  bear  the  additional  burden  of  inflationary 
pressures. 

There has been unprecedented social and political 
upheaval in West Asia, the Gulf and North Africa. The 
peoples  of  those  regions  are  demanding  the  right  to 
shape  their  own  future.  Energy  and  food  prices  are 
once  again  spiralling  and  introducing  fresh  instability, 
especially for developing countries. 
The Palestinian question remains unresolved and 

a  source  of  great  instability  and  violence.  India  is 
steadfast  in  its  support  for  the  Palestinian  people’s 
struggle for a sovereign, independent, viable and united 
State  of  Palestine,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital, 
living  within  secure  and  recognizable  borders  side  by 
side  and  at  peace  with  Israel.  We  look  forward  to 
welcoming Palestine as an equal Member of the United 
Nations. 

Terrorism continues to rear its ugly head and take 
a  grievous  toll  of  innocent  lives.  New  threats  to 
international  security  have  emerged.  At  a  time  when 
the world  needs more international  commerce, the sea 
lanes  of  communication  across  the  Indian  Ocean  are 
under  siege. Acts  of  piracy  are  being  carried  out  with 
impunity  from  lands  that  are  beyond  the  writ  of  any 
functioning State or international accountability. 

Iniquitous  growth,  inadequate  job  and  education 
opportunities  and  the  denial  of  basic  human  freedoms 
are  leading  to  a  growing  radicalization  of  the  youth, 
intolerance and extremism. 
11-51360 

9 

the  United  Nations  was 
A/66/PV.22 


We  have  no  choice  but  to  meet  these  challenges 
head-on.  We  will  succeed  if  we  adopt  a  cooperative 
rather 
than  a  confrontational  approach.  We  will 
succeed  if  we  embrace  once  again  the  principles  on 
which 
founded: 
internationalism and multilateralism. More importantly, 
we will succeed if our efforts have legitimacy and are 
pursued  not  just  within  the  framework  of  the  law  but 
also in the spirit of the law. 

The observance of the rule of law is as important 
in  international  affairs  as  it  is  within  countries. 
Societies  cannot  be  reordered  from  outside  through 
military force. People in all countries have the right to 
choose their own destiny and decide their own future. 

The international community has a role to play in 
assisting  in  the  processes  of  transition  and  institution-
building,  but  the  idea  that  prescriptions  should  be 
imposed from outside is fraught with danger. 
Action  taken  under  the  authority  of  the  United 

Nations  must  respect  the  unity,  territorial  integrity, 
sovereignty  and  independence  of  individual  States. 
Correspondingly,  governments  are  duty-bound  to  their 
citizens to create conditions that enable them to freely 
determine  their  pathways  to  development.  This  is  the 
essence  of  democracy  and 
fundamental  human 
freedoms. 
There  are  many  other  things  that  we  can  do. We 

must  address 
in  global 
governance.  We  need  a  stronger  and  more  effective 
United  Nations.  We  need  a  United  Nations  that  is 
sensitive  to  the  aspirations  of  everyone,  rich  or  poor, 
big  or  small.  For  this,  the  United  Nations  and  its 
principal  organs, 
the  General  Assembly  and 
the 
Security Council, must be revitalized and reformed. 

the  Security 
Council  are  essential  if  it  is  to  reflect  contemporary 
reality.  Such  an  outcome  will  enhance  the  Council’s 
credibility  and  effectiveness  in  dealing  with  global 
issues.  Early  reform  of  the  Security  Council  must  be 
pursued with renewed vigour and urgently enacted. 

the  global  economic 
slowdown  to  become  a  pretext  for  building  walls 
around  ourselves  through  protectionism  or  erecting 
barriers  to  the  movement  of  people,  services  and 
capital. Effective ways and means must be deployed to 
promote 
the  macroeconomic 
policies  of  the  major  economies.  The  reform  of  the 
The  reform  and  expansion  of 
We  should  not  allow 
the  coordination  of 
the  deficit 
issue  of 
the 
of 
need 
systems 
We  wish 
Developing 
international 
governance 
financial 
institutions  should  be  pursued  with  speed  and 
efficiency. 

The development agenda must be brought firmly 
back  to  centre  stage  in  United  Nations  priorities.  We 
need  a  much  more  determined  effort 
to  ensure 
balanced,  inclusive  and  sustainable  development  for 
the benefit of vast sections of humanity. Each of us can 
contribute to this task, but we can achieve far more if 
we act in partnership. 
In  the  past  few  decades,  India  has  lifted  tens  of 

millions of its people out of abject poverty. We are in a 
position  to  feed  our  population  better,  educate  them 
better and widen their economic choices. However, we 
still have a very long way to go. 

the  pace  of  India’s 
to  accelerate 
transformation  in  partnership  with  the  international 
community.  A  fast-growing  India  can  expand  the 
boundaries of the global economy. A democratic, plural 
and  secular  India  can  contribute  to  tolerance  and 
peaceful coexistence among nations. 

investment, 
technology and market access for their products. They 
need  assistance  in  the  areas  of  education,  health, 
women’s  empowerment  and  agriculture.  During  the 
recently held fourth United Nations Conference on the 
Least  Developed  Countries  Conference  in  Istanbul  in 
May  2011,  India  strengthened  its  partnership  with  the 
least  developed 
significantly 
enhanced  lines  of  credit  and  assistance  in  capacity-
building. 

We  should  pay  particular  attention  to  Africa. 
Africa’s  richest  resources  are  not  its  minerals  but  its 
people. We must empower them and open the doors for 
them to human advances through technology, education 
and skills development. 

At  the  second  India-Africa  Forum  Summit  in 
Addis  Ababa  earlier  this  year,  India  offered  lines  of 
credit worth $5 billion and an additional $700 million 
in  grant  assistance  for  human  resource  development, 
technology transfer and building new institutions. 
The United Nations should lead efforts in the area 

of  food  security.  We  need  more  cooperation 
in 
agricultural  technologies,  water  conservation,  land 
usage  and  productivity,  and  stability  in  commodity 
prices. 
countries 
countries 
through 
10 

11-51360 
recent 
However, 
in  Kabul 
assassination 



Developing  countries  need  a  peaceful  external 
environment  in  which  to  grow.  The  fight  against 
terrorism  must  be  unrelenting.  There  cannot  be 
selective approaches in dealing with terrorist groups or 
the  infrastructure  of  terrorism.  Terrorism  has  to  be 
fought  across  all  fronts.  In  South  Asia  there  are 
encouraging  signs  of  cooperation  in  the  area  of 
security,  as  exemplified  in  India’s  cooperation  with 
Bangladesh. Such cooperation is adding to the security 
of both our countries. 

the 
of 
Mr. Burhanuddin  Rabbani 
is  a  chilling 
reminder  of  the  designs  of  the  enemies  of  peace  in 
Afghanistan.  It  is  essential  that  the  process  of  nation-
building  and  reconciliation  in  that  country  succeed. 
This  is  vital  for  ensuring  peace  and  security  in  the 
region. India will play its part in helping the people of 
Afghanistan build a better future for themselves, just as 
we are doing in other countries in South Asia. We will 
do so because prosperity and stability in our region are 
indivisible. 

We wish to see an open, inclusive and transparent 
architecture of regional cooperation in the Asia-Pacific 
region and peaceful settlement of disputes. I call upon 
the  United  Nations  to  evolve  a  comprehensive  and 
effective response to the problem of piracy in the Red 
Sea and off the coast of Somalia. As a littoral State of 
the  Indian  Ocean,  India  is  ready  to  work  with  other 
countries 
the 
international  community  should  continue  with  efforts 
to  restore  stability 
joined 
international efforts to provide humanitarian assistance 
to  the  countries  afflicted  with  severe  famine  and 
drought  in  the  Horn  of  Africa,  specifically  Somalia, 
Kenya and Djibouti. 

Nuclear  proliferation  continues  to  be  a  threat  to 
international  security.  The  action  plan  put  forward  by 
former  Prime  Minister  Rajiv  Gandhi  for  a  nuclear-
weapon-free  and  non-violent  world  provides,  even 
today,  a  concrete  road  map  for  achieving  nuclear 
disarmament 
universal, 
non-discriminatory,  phased  and  verifiable  manner.  I 
commend the United Nations for its efforts in focusing 
world  attention  on  nuclear  safety.  Our  plans  for 
utilizing nuclear power to meet our energy needs hinge 
on full satisfaction of our concerns about the safety of 
nuclear energy. We have undertaken a thorough review 
of the safety of our nuclear plants. 
regard.  Simultaneously, 
in  Somalia.  We  have 
time-bound, 
in 
in 
that 
a 
A/66/PV.22

The perspectives I have outlined to the Assembly 
are  those  that  have  guided  our  actions  in  the  Security 
Council  since  India  became  a  non-permanent  member 
of  the  Council  in  January.  There  are  still  millions  of 
people living in poverty across the world. Their plight 
has  worsened,  through  no  fault  of  theirs,  due  to  the 
global  economic  and  financial  crisis  of  recent  years. 
The  actions  of  Governments  around  the  world  are 
therefore  under  close  scrutiny.  It  is  vitally  important 
that  through  our  actions  and  deeds  we  renew  the 
people’s  faith  in  the  Charter  and  objectives  of  the 
United  Nations.  I  am  confident  that  we  can  do  this 
through acts of statesmanship, foresight and collective 
effort. India stands  ready to play its part in this noble 
endeavour. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of India for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Manmohan  Singh,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of India, was escorted from the rostrum. 



  Address by Mr. Carlos Gomes Júnior, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Guinea-Bissau. 

Mr.  Carlos  Gomes  Júnior,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic  of  Guinea-Bissau,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Carlos  Gomes  Júnior, 
Prime Minister of the Republic of Guinea-Bissau,  and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
in 

Portuguese; interpretation provided by the delegation): 
I  would  first  like  to  congratulate  Ambassador  Nassir 
Abdulaziz Al-Nasser  on  his  election  to  the  presidency 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session, and 
to  express  our  most  sincere  wishes  for  his  success  in 
fulfilling  his  mandate.  Similarly,  I  would  like  to 
convey 
Joseph  Deiss  Guinea-Bissau’s 
appreciation 
the  spirit  of  engagement  and 
dedication he brought to his successful conduct of the 
work of the sixty-fifth session. 

Let  me  also  reiterate  my  congratulations  to  the 
Secretary-General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-Moon, 
on  his  recent  reappointment,  the  fruit  of  the  excellent 
to  Mr. 
for 
(Guinea-Bissau) 
Mr.  Gomes
(spoke 
11-51360 

11 
for 
the 
needed 
conditions 
the  signing  of 
A/66/PV.22 

work  he  has  done  to  help  consolidate  peace  and 
development around the world. 

And  I  would  like  to  take  this  happy  occasion  to 
salute  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan  on  having  joined 
the United Nations, becoming the Organization’s most 
recent full Member. 
Today,  24  September,  Guinea-Bissau  celebrates 

the thirty-eighth anniversary of its independence. That 
historic  achievement  was  the  Guinean  people’s  first 
major victory, and from this rostrum I pay the homage 
that  is  owed  to  our  country’s  freedom  fighters,  whose 
courage  and  determination  enabled  us  to  attain  the 
status of a free and independent State. 

As  our  national  authorities  have  stated  and  has 
been  unanimously  recognized  by  the  international 
community,  defence  and  security  sector  reforms  are 
urgent priorities for us, since their implementation can 
strengthen  peace  and  stability  in  our  country  and  thus 
create 
sustainable 
development.  With 
the  Tripartite 
Agreement Protocol or Memorandum of Understanding 
between  the  Economic  Community  of  West  African 
States  (ECOWAS),  the  Community  of  Portuguese-
speaking  Countries  and  the  Government  of  Guinea-
Bissau,  which  will  take  place  at  the  margins  of  this 
session  of  the  Assembly,  we  will  be  able  to  make  a 
major qualitative leap in the implementation of defence 
and  security  forces  reform,  as  well  as  in  effectively 
implementing 
the 
ECOWAS road map.  
In  that  regard,  Guinea-Bissau’s  commitment  to 

mobilizing resources to sustain the reforms has led to a 
decision  to  create  a  special  pension  fund,  into  which 
we  will  have  deposited  $200,000  of  the  $500,000  we 
pledged to the fund by December 2011, as proof of our 
firm  commitment  to  contributing  10  per  cent  of  the 
total resources required. We therefore expect to hold a 
high-level meeting with our development partners this 
year,  in  order  to  obtain  the  financial  and  technical 
resources  required  to  implement  the  reforms,  and  we 
appeal to all our partners to participate in and commit 
to the meeting. 
Drug  trafficking  and  organized  crime  are  a 

current subject of discussion in the Organization, and, 
as is well known, the West African region to which we 
belong  cited  as a hub and  Guinea-Bissau is also often 
singled  out  as  a  transit  point  for  illicit  drugs.  In  full 
awareness  of  this  reality  and  recognizing  our  known 
the  programmes  contained 
in 

the 
through 
to  strengthen 
the  Government, 
legal  system,  strengthening 
problems, we are proud to say that we were one of the 
first countries to request the good offices of the United 
Nations,  through  the  United  Nations  Office  on  Drugs 
and  Crime  (UNODC),  to  help  us  deal  with  the  issue 
with determination and effectiveness. 
In order to combat drug trafficking and organized 

crime, 
its  Council  of 
Ministers,  has  adopted  two  important  instruments,  a 
political  declaration  and  a  plan  of  action,  which 
include large-scale actions in the following three areas: 
strengthening 
the 
criminal  justice  system,  and  combating  drug  use  and 
HIV/AIDS.  Alongside  such  measures  at  the  national 
level,  the  Government  is  seeking  to  sign  bilateral 
agreements 
the  fight  against  drug 
trafficking,  keeping  in  mind  that,  without  strategic 
cooperation between the countries of origin, transit and 
consumption  of  drugs,  there  can  be  no  effective  fight 
against drug trafficking. 

Therefore,  from  this  rostrum,  we  reiterate  our 
appeal,  as  we  have  many  times  before,  for  help  in 
controlling  our  maritime  borders.  We  address  this 
appeal to countries that are better prepared than we are 
to  do  so.  We  are  making  a  formal  request  for  the 
support  of  the  United  States  and  the  European  Union 
and 
its  member  States,  since  we  cannot  single-
handedly fight drug trafficking, which, as we all know, 
is increasingly powerful and sophisticated. 

We  are  approaching  the  deadline  for  achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  but  despite 
ongoing  efforts,  Guinea-Bissau  continues 
to  face 
challenges  with  regard  to  basic  sanitation,  supplies  of 
drinking  water  and  energy,  and  the  provision  of 
primary health services, to cite only the most pressing 
issues. The high rate of poverty that still prevails in our 
country  has  forced  the  Government  to  adopt  an 
ambitious  agenda  for  the  future,  embodied  in  our 
national  poverty  reduction  strategy  document  and 
based  on  the  pillars  of  stability,  peace,  economic 
growth  and  poverty  reduction.  That  document  defines 
the main challenges and recommends priorities for the 
next  five  years.  As  a  result  of  serious  and  rigorous 
implementation of this strategy, the Government that I 
have  the  honour  to  lead  has  already  successfully 
reversed this negative trend. 

is  clearly 
improving, the result of progress made in the last two 
and  a  half  years  in  strengthening  public  policy  and 
The  current  economic 
situation 
12 

11-51360 
traditional  donors 


improving  macroeconomic  performance, 
as  our 
partners,  especially  the  International  Monetary  Fund 
and  the  World  Bank,  will  testify.  As  a  result  of  our 
excellent  macroeconomic  performance,  the  country 
reached  the  completion  point  of  the  Heavily  Indebted 
Poor Countries Initiative, thus achieving forgiveness of 
about  90  per  cent  of  its  external  debt  and  the  recent 
re-evaluation  of  the  growth  rate  of  its  gross  domestic 
product,  which  is  now  fixed  at  5.3  per  cent,  which  is 
higher  than  originally  predicted.  We  have  all  the 
conditions needed to maintain and accelerate this trend 
during the next year. 

To  that  end,  in  addition  to  relying  on  our  own 
resources,  which  can  now  be  devoted  to  poverty 
reduction programmes, the Government will organize a 
round  table  of  donors  in  the  first  quarter  of  2012  to 
mobilize  the  necessary  financial  resources  for  the 
implementation  of  those  programmes.  In  that  context, 
we  appeal  once  more  for  the  participation  of  and 
contributions  by  all 
that  are 
interested  in  our  country  and  that  wish  to  support 
national  efforts  aimed  at  overcoming  our  current 
weaknesses. 
Let me once again welcome the establishment of 

UN-Women, 
firm 
commitment  of  our  Organization  to  the  struggle  for 
gender  equality  and  to  ensuring  that  women  have  the 
conditions  necessary  for  a  more  representative  and 
active  participation  in  the  process  of  transformation 
that is under way in our societies. 

In  the  same  context,  my  country  is  taking 
measures  to  uphold  the  dignity  of  women,  including 
measures  to  promote  their  empowerment  and  the 
affirmation  of  their  autonomy.  I  welcome  the  steps 
taken  recently  by  the  Guinean  Parliament,  which 
approved 
female  genital 
mutilation  and  increased  penalties  for  trafficking  in 
minors. 

Guinea-Bissau’s  status  and  credibility  in  the 
international  arena  depends  largely  on  its  ability  to 
define  and  implement  a  foreign  policy  that  takes  into 
account  the  great  universal  values  of  democracy, 
freedom  and  human  rights,  which  are  our  values  as 
well.  

to  be 
consistent with our historical commitments and, above 
all,  faithful  to  all  who  selflessly  helped  us  in  the 
struggle for the affirmation of our dignity. 
In  our  diplomatic  efforts,  we  have 
the  criminalization  of 
reflects 
entity 
that 
the 
an 
A/66/PV.22
With 
regard 
to  cooperate  and 
to  Libya,  Guinea-Bissau 
the  position  of 
its  full  readiness 
the 

From  that  perspective,  we  welcome  the  decision 
of the Palestinian Authority to submit a request for the 
recognition  of the State of Palestine  as  a full Member 
of  the  United  Nations.  We  encourage  a  constructive 
dialogue  on  the  basis  of  the  possibility  of  peaceful 
coexistence  and  mutually  advantageous  cooperation 
between countries and peoples. 

This session of the Assembly is taking place at a 
time  when  major  changes  are  occurring  in  the  Arab 
world.  These  changes  call  for  greater  political  and 
social  rights,  as  well  as  values  such  as  freedom  and 
democracy,  and,  for  that  very  reason,  the  Arabs  have 
our  sympathy  and  solidarity.  We  regret,  however,  the 
cases  where  transition  incurs  high  costs  in  terms  of 
human lives. 
fully 

the  African  Union  and 
supports 
to 
expresses 
strengthen 
increasingly  friendly  relations  and 
cooperation  with  the  legitimate  representatives  of  the 
Libyan people.  

We  urge  the  United  States  Government  to  draw 
on  the  values  that  define  that  great  nation  and  to 
resume its relationship with Cuba, ending the embargo 
that has lasted for more than five decades and  freeing 
the Cubans still being held in its prisons. 
The  responsibilities  of  the  United  Nations  are 

increasing, and the globalization of the decisions that it 
is called upon to take is becoming increasingly urgent. 

the 
establishment  of  the  Security  Council  are  no  longer 
current.  The  demographic 
the 
different  regions  of  the  world,  the  emergence  of  new 
countries and new geopolitical configurations oblige us 
to accept as natural the reform of the Security Council. 
We  deem  it  legitimate  to  want  the  decisions  of  the 
Security  Council  to  be  made  more  inclusive  and 
participatory 
through  giving  our  continent  both 
permanent  and  non-permanent  seats,  as  is  the  wish  of 
the African Union, because of the large representation 
of the African continent. 

Under  the  auspices  of  the  President  of  the 
Republic,  Mr.  Malam  Bacai  Sanhá,  the  National 
Assembly launched a process of national reconciliation 
involving  all  the  forces  of  the  nation.  That  important 
initiative  has  contributed  to  the  establishment  of  the 
representation  of 
The  historical 
reasons 
to 
that 
led 
11-51360 

13 

A/66/PV.22 

climate  of  peace  and  understanding  that  now  prevails 
in the country. 

To  conclude,  I  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  all 
friends and partners of Guinea-Bissau for their support 
and solidarity and to assure them that we will spare no 
effort  in  consolidating  peace  and  building  a  more  just 
society  to  create  better  living  conditions  for  the 
Guinean people. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic  of  Guinea-Bissau  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made. 

Mr.  Carlos  Gomes  Júnior,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Guinea-Bissau, was escorted from the 
rostrum.  


  Address by Mr. Willy Telavi, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Tuvalu 
 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Tuvalu. 

Mr. Willy Telavi,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic 
of Tuvalu, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Willy  Telavi,  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Tuvalu, and inviting him to 
address the Assembly.  
 Mr.  Telavi  (Tuvalu):  As  this  is  the  first  time  I 
have stood at this rostrum as Prime Minister of Tuvalu 
and  participated  in  the  general  debate  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  am  delighted  to  convey  the  warmest 
greetings  and  best  wishes  of  my  people  and  my 
Government,  and  I  am  honoured  to  speak  today  on 
their behalf. Let me first extend my special thanks and 
sincere  appreciation  to  the  Government  of  the  United 
States  of  America,  as  the  host  country,  for  the  warm 
hospitality  and  special  protocols  accorded  to  my 
delegation since our arrival. 

Ten years ago, Tuvalu established and opened its 
Permanent Mission to the United Nations here in New 
York,  with  a  mandate  to  engage  more  closely  with 
nations  of  the  global  family.  Despite  our  limited 
resources  as  one  of  the  smallest  Member  States,  our 
presence is a simple testimony of our hope and trust in 
collaboration with Member States in the pursuit of our 
destiny.  This 
continued 
reflects 
further 
our 
commitment to uphold the maintenance of international 
peace  and  security,  development  and  human  rights  as 
fundamental pillars of the United Nations, as enshrined 
in its Charter. 

Tuvalu  warmly  welcomes  and  fully  supports  the 
four main areas of focus of Mr. Al-Nasser’s presidency, 
including  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  United 
Nations  reform  and  revitalization,  improving  disaster 
prevention  and  response,  and  sustainable  development 
and  global  prosperity,  which  he  clearly  identified 
during  the  opening  of  the  session.  In  particular,  the 
theme that he proposed for the general debate — “The 
role  of  mediation  in  the  settlement  of  disputes  by 
peaceful  means”  —  is  timely,  considering  what  is 
happening around the world today. 

In  this  context,  I  wish  to  express  our  belated 
tribute  and  respect  to  the  people  and  the  Government 
of  the  United  States  in  commemoration  of  the  recent 
tenth anniversary of the events of 11 September 2001. 
Tuvalu  strongly  condemns  such  terrorist  acts  and  all 
similar  incidents  worldwide,  and  our  prayers  are  with 
those  who  have  lost  their  loved  ones.  Tuvalu  further 
salutes those who have lost their lives for the cause of 
justice and peace. 

As  a  peace-loving  nation,  Tuvalu  fully  supports 
the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  maintenance  of 
peace  and  security  across  the  globe.  However,  at  the 
same  time,  the  integrity  and  sovereignty  of  countries 
should be respected at all costs. Tuvalu firmly believes 
that military and violent action should not be used as a 
means  for  the  settlement  of  disputes.  Instead,  the 
parties concerned should be encouraged to discuss and 
understand the root causes of their differences and try 
to listen to each other in a more peaceful manner. 
Today the world is undergoing profound changes 

without  any  boundaries  through  the  unprecedented 
impacts  of  globalization  and  other  related  global 
events,  which  have  critical  implications  for  Tuvalu. 
This  has  been  further  exacerbated  by  the  continued 
severe  impact  of  the  global  financial  and  economic 
crisis, which has had an enormous and critical negative 
effect  on  Tuvalu’s  economy.  In  particular,  the  Tuvalu 
Trust  Fund,  which  is  the  main  source  of  revenue  to 
stabilize  our  recurrent  budget,  has  been  severely 
affected.  As  a  consequence,  my  Government  has  no 
other option apart from streamlining and containing its 
national recurrent budget to a sustainable level so as to 
14 

11-51360 
the 
is  a 
In 
this 
regard, 
that  needs 
living  document 
I  humbly  call  upon 


enable  the  provision  of  basic  services  to  its  people 
during these difficult times. 

the 
international  community  and  development  partners  to 
urgently  fulfil  their  commitments  to  assist  the  least 
developed countries (LDCs), including Tuvalu, through 
the  implementation  of  the  Istanbul  Programme  of 
Action,  adopted  at 
fourth  United  Nations 
Conference on the Least Developed Countries, held in 
Turkey  earlier  this  year.  The  Istanbul  Programme  of 
Action 
to  be 
implemented vigorously and collectively by LDCs and 
the  international  community  during  the  next  10  years. 
In  that  regard,  I  am  pleased  to  confirm  that  the  main 
thrusts of that Programme of Action will be integrated 
and  mainstreamed  in  the  Tuvalu  National  Sustainable 
Development  Strategy,  during 
the  Fourth  United 
Nations Conference on the Least Developed Countries 
scheduled for next month. 

Furthermore, as a least developed country, Tuvalu 
is  most  vulnerable  to  global  economic  shocks,  the 
impacts  of  climate  change  and  outbreaks  of  disease, 
including 
Tuvalu 
continues to call on and appeal to the United Nations to 
take  those  vulnerabilities  seriously  into  consideration 
when  addressing  the  question  of  the  graduation  of 
LDCs.  Despite  the  ambitious  target  of  the  Istanbul 
Programme  of  Action  for  50  per  cent  of  LDCs  to  be 
graduated  within  the  next  decade,  Tuvalu  firmly 
believes 
environmental 
vulnerability,  coupled  with  its  continuous  dependence 
on  official  development  assistance,  cannot  be  totally 
ignored. In that context, the graduation criteria need to 
be reviewed to reflect and recognize our vulnerability. 

second 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  Progress 
Report  covering  the  period  from  2010  to  2011,  which 
highlights  the  progress  we  have  made  to  date  towards 
achieving  those  goals.  Despite  the  ongoing  impact  of 
recent global crises, which Tuvalu continues to face, it 
is encouraging to note that five of the MDGs are likely 
to  be  achieved  and  three  will  have  mixed  results  by 
2015.  As  alluded  to  earlier,  while  we  have  made 
progress in achieving the MDGs, such progress can be 
reversed overnight because of our particular economic 
and environmental vulnerability. 

inter-governmental 
negotiations  at  the  United  Nations  to  revitalize  and 
Last  month,  Tuvalu  published 
The  ongoing  process  and 
non-communicable 
economic 
diseases. 
that 
its 
and 
its 
A/66/PV.22
the 
the 
importance  of 
to  allow  Taiwan 
reform the General Assembly and the Security Council 
respectively  are  fully  supported.  However,  while  we 
recognize 
reforms  being 
undertaken by those United Nations bodies in order to 
update their mandates, we are concerned that the time 
taken to conclude such undertakings is far too long. In 
that  regard,  we  look  forward  to  a  more  realistic 
timetable  to  complete  those  negotiations  in  the  near 
future, once and for all. 

Our  collective efforts to strengthen  and  maintain 
peace  across  the  globe  will  be  meaningless,  if  the 
United  Nations  continues  to  turn  blind  eyes  and  deaf 
ears  to Taiwan’s  contribution  and  efforts  toward  those 
common  goals.  Furthermore,  Taiwan’s  continued 
contribution  to  the  international  community  as  one  of 
the  committed  development  partners  cannot  be 
overemphasized.  In  that  regard, Tuvalu  strongly  urges 
the  United  Nations  to  recognize  those  contributions 
without  any  reservations.  In  particular,  Tuvalu  calls 
upon  the  United  Nations  subsidiary  bodies,  especially 
the  World  Health  Organization  and  the  International 
Civil  Aviation  Organization, 
to 
participate  fully  and  meaningfully  in  their  meetings 
and activities, including in United Nations meetings on 
climate change. 

Climate  change  is  a  priority  global  issue  of  the 
twenty-first century and beyond and therefore requires 
a  global  solution.  Climate  change  impacts  countries 
unequally  and  not  all  countries  possess  the  same 
capacity  and  resilience  to  adapt  and  respond  to  such 
impacts.  For  a  small  island  developing  State  like 
Tuvalu,  climate  change  is  without  a  doubt  a  security 
issue that threatens our survival. At the end of this year 
parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change  will  be  meeting  in  Durban  to 
advance  our  work  on  climate  change.  It  will  be  a 
critical meeting, as time is fast running out for highly 
vulnerable  countries  like Tuvalu.  My  country  believes 
the meeting in Durban must deliver key outcomes. 
First,  we  must  adopt  amendments  to  the  Kyoto 

Protocol,  so  as  to  allow  for  a  second  commitment 
period.  It  will  be  necessary  to  adopt  a  decision  that 
includes  provisional  entry 
those 
amendments  to  avoid  any  gap  between  the  first  and 
second commitment periods. That is necessary in order 
to  ensure  that  the  clean  development  mechanism 
continues  without  any  complications  and  that  the 
mechanism  continues  to  provide  financing  for  the 
Adaptation Fund. 
force  of 
into 
11-51360 

15 

to 
that 
is  vitally 
in  Durban 
a  mandate 
that  effectively  address 
Secondly,  we  must  make  rapid  progress 
A/66/PV.22 


in 
developing an international mechanism to address loss 
and  damage.  For  highly  vulnerable  countries  like 
Tuvalu, 
important.  We  need  an 
international  mechanism  to  spread  the  burden  of 
rebuilding  after  major  weather  catastrophes.  Thirdly, 
we must re-focus our work on reducing emissions from 
deforestation  and  forest  degradation.  To  properly 
reduce  global  deforestation  we  must  put  in  place 
appropriate  measures 
its 
causes. We must look at this from the demand side and 
explore  all  means  of  regulating  the  trade  in  products 
that is driving deforestation. 

that  all  major  emitting 
Finally,  we  believe 
countries  must  take  more  decisive  action  to  reduce 
their  emissions. The  current  pledging  system  found  in 
the  Cancún  Agreements  is  inadequate.  We  will  be 
seeking 
commence 
negotiations  on  a  new,  legally  binding  agreement  for 
those  major  emitting  countries  that  have  not  taken 
commitments  under 
the  Kyoto  Protocol.  That 
agreement should complement the Kyoto Protocol, but 
not replace it.  

the  Rio+20 
Conference  next  year,  we  must  ensure  that  there  is  a 
focused section dealing with the needs of small island 
developing  States.  In  considering  the  theme  of  the 
green economy, we must explore carefully how we can 
redirect  the  current  international  trading  system  to 
properly  reflect  the  needs  of  small  island  economies. 
We  need  accessible  and  affordable  technologies  that 
take  advantage  of  renewable  energy  and  energy 
efficiency, we need help to protect our blue economies 
and  our  oceans,  and  we  need 
to  explore  new 
preferential  trade  arrangements  to  overcome  our  size 
disadvantage. 

In  conclusion,  let  me  reiterate  the  severe  impact 
of  the  recent  financial  and  economic  crisis  and  other 
ongoing  global  crises,  which  continue  to  affect  my 
country’s economy and its overall social and economic 
development. As a small island developing State and a 
least  developed  country,  vulnerable  to  such  crises  and 
dependent on overseas development assistance, Tuvalu 
appeals  to  the  international  community  to  urgently 
honour  and  fulfil  their  commitments  and  obligations 
outlined in the Istanbul Programme of Action and other 
international platforms. We firmly believe that with our 
continued  cooperation  and  strong  partnerships  at  all 
As  we  make  progress 
towards 
levels,  we  can  successfully  overcome  those  problems 
for the sake of our people and humankind. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Tuvalu 
for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Willy  Telavi,  Prime  Minister  of  Tuvalu,  was 
escorted from the rostrum. 



(Saint  Vincent 
Mr.  Gonsalves
  Address by Mr. Ralph Gonsalves, Prime 
Minister of Saint Vincent and the Grenadines 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear an address by the Prime Minister of Saint Vincent 
and the Grenadines. 

Mr.  Ralph  Gonsalves,  Prime  Minister  of  Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ralph  Gonsalves, 
Prime  Minister  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
the 
and 

Grenadines):  I  am  pleased  to  add  my  voice  to  the 
unanimous  acclaim  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nassir 
Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly for this, our sixty-sixth session. A skilful and 
seasoned  diplomat,  he  has  played  an  integral  role  in 
establishing the State of Qatar as a central and crucial 
actor  in  international  diplomacy.  I  have  no  doubt  that 
he  will  approach  his  new  responsibilities  with  similar 
dedication, even-handedness and compassion. 
In  recent  months  the  winds  of  change  have 

encircled 
the 
unlikeliest  corners  of  our  planet,  for  good  and  for  ill. 
Those winds have swept the nation of South Sudan into 
these  hallowed  halls  as  a  welcome  and  esteemed  new 
member  of  our  global  family. They  are  blowing  away 
the  flimsy  impediments  to  Palestinian  statehood,  and 
breathing fresh air into stagnant negotiating processes. 
The winds of change have howled across the sands of 
the Middle East and North Africa, reshaping long-held 
geopolitical assumptions. 

The  grim  economic  storm  clouds  that  formed 
ominously on our global horizon three years ago have 
yet  to  dissipate,  and,  indeed,  seem  to  be  multiplying. 
Natural 
the 
accompanying  non-metaphorical  winds  of  hurricanes 
the  globe,  reaching  and  reshaping 
disasters, 
change, 
climate 
and 
16 

11-51360 
in 
the 
and 
painful 
causing 
the  relevance  of 
that  world.  Will 


and  tropical  storms  have  buffeted  my  multi-island 
nation  and  my  region  yet  again,  upending  our  fragile 
economies 
developmental 
setbacks. 

The United Nations finds itself in the eye of these 
increasingly turbulent geopolitical and socio-economic 
storms. The  role  that  we  collectively  play  in  response 
to  these  howling  gales  will  determine  the  contours  of 
the  post-crisis  world  and 
this 
institution 
international 
community  shield  the  vulnerable  from  these  winds? 
Will  we  harness  their  power  for  positive  change?  Or 
will  we  become  little  more  than  unnecessary  weather 
forecasters, watching and warning about which way the 
winds  blow,  but  never  acting  for  the  benefit  of  our 
peoples’ humanization? 

The  President  has  wisely  selected  “The  role  of 
mediation in the settlement of disputes” as the theme of 
this general debate. That theme could not be more apt 
or  timely.  Too  often,  the  difficult  work  of  mediation, 
negotiation  and  peaceful  resolution  of  disputes  is 
prematurely abandoned in the search for a quick fix of 
militarism,  brinkmanship  or 
ill-advised  unilateral 
action.  The  very  drafters  of  hard-fought  Security 
Council resolutions often cast aside the letter and spirit 
of those documents before their ink has dried, and the 
frenzied pursuit of a military solution to every dispute 
is sometimes sickeningly palpable. 

All  too  frequently,  the  loudest  champions  of 
expensive  and  unnecessary  military  action  are  those 
leaders  of  military  Powers  who  sometimes  seek  to 
shore  up  sagging  local  political  fortunes  with  bullets, 
bombs and the bodies of faceless foreigners in faraway 
lands.  History  has  never  been  kind  to  such  nakedly 
political  crusades,  and  those  who  have  sown  the  wind 
have  invariably  reaped  the  whirlwind  of  their  bloody 
campaigns, long after the triumphalist glow has faded. 
Neocolonialist  and  imperialist  adventures,  however 
disguised, will never triumph before the bar of history 
over  a  people’s  right  to  self-determination  and  the 
inalienable embrace of sovereignty. 

The ongoing global economic and financial crisis 
is  a  devastating  storm  that  has  shown  no  signs  of 
abating. Economies the world over remain in peril, and 
none  is  immune  from  the  widening  and  deepening 
fallout of this systemic crisis of ill-regulated financial 
institutions and the movement of capital. The effects of 
the  international  global  and  financial  meltdown  are 
A/66/PV.22
now  being  felt  well  beyond  the  bottom  lines  of 
multinational  corporations.  The  macroeconomic  and 
developmental consequences of this economic tornado 
are now painfully apparent, as is the terrible impact on 
the lives of individuals. 

The  economic  crisis  has  spurred  rising  global 
unemployment  and  poverty,  and  has  engendered  a 
feeling  of  hopelessness,  especially  among  young 
people.  The  continuing  fallout  of 
the  economic 
upheaval  can  be  felt  in  streets  and  cities  around  the 
world  and  is  a  major  contributor  to  the  global  unrest 
that has pitted disgruntled youths and others in violent 
opposition  to  Government  forces,  from  Tottenham  to 
Tripoli. Social unrest elsewhere beckons, in dozens of 
countries where neither the socio-economic conditions 
nor the political institutions can  contain the enormous 
pressures much longer. 

Well  into  our  third  year  of  the  international 
economic crisis, we can now declare that the tepid and 
timid  responses  of  wealthy  developed  nations  have 
failed  to  heal  the  global  economy.  The  uncoordinated 
lurches  from  stimulus  to  austerity  and  back  typify  the 
confusion of  the self-appointed premier  forums of our 
international  economic  cooperation. The  recovery  that 
they  prematurely  declared  was  false  and  fleeting,  and 
their  counsel  of  patience  and  predictions  of  long-term 
recovery  are  cold  comfort  to  the  suffering  peoples  of 
countries that did not contribute to the crisis. 

In small, vulnerable and highly indebted middle-
income economies such as ours, the economic debacle 
threatens 
ongoing 
consequences. We cannot afford to wait for the promise 
of  incremental  or  cyclical  up-ticks  in  the  global 
economy. Small States need the fiscal and policy space 
to creatively spur development in ways that comply not 
with  the  checklists  of  discredited  economic  theorists, 
but  with  real-world  particularities  and  people-centred 
policies.  The  international  financial  institutions  have 
yet to sufficiently grasp this simple fact. 

The  General  Assembly  must  reassert  its  role  in 
the response to the international economic crisis. In the 
early  days  of  the  global  economic  deterioration,  Saint 
Vincent and the Grenadines played a leading role in the 
United Nations Conference on the World Financial and 
Economic  Crisis  and  its  Impact  on  Development. 
Under  the  President’s  leadership,  the  Assembly  must 
now  meaningfully  follow  up  on 
the  unfulfilled 
recommendations  and  mechanisms  spelled  out  at  that 
debilitating 
have 
and 
to 
11-51360 

17 

A/66/PV.22 

Conference. The Caribbean region has a vested interest 
in this most urgent of matters. 

This year, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines was 
the subject of a United Nations resolution (65/136) that 
called  upon  the  international  community  to  provide 
assistance  in  the  wake  of  Hurricane  Tomas,  which 
caused  millions  of  dollars  of  damage  in  our  region. 
While we are extremely grateful to the many countries 
that contributed generously to the emergency response, 
our  national  and  regional  recovery 
is  far  from 
complete.  In  the  light  of  the  welcome  call  by  the 
President of the General Assembly to focus on disaster 
prevention  and  response  during  the  current  session,  I 
remind  the  international  community  of  our  continuing 
recovery efforts and the ongoing vulnerability of small 
island  developing  States  during  the  still  active  2011 
Atlantic hurricane season. 

I  remain  baffled  by  the  intransigence  of  major 
emitters  and developed nations that refuse to shoulder 
the  burden  for  arresting  the  climate  changes  that  are 
linked  to  the  excesses  of  their  own  wasteful  policies. 
As  Hurricanes  Irene  and  Katia  crept  northward  to 
typically untouched cities in the United States and the 
United Kingdom, we in the Caribbean felt saddened at 
the  extensive  damage  and  tragic  loss  of  life,  which  is 
an annual occurrence in our region. We can only hope 
that our now-common experiences can engender a level 
of solidarity and constructive engagement that will lead 
to binding and meaningful emissions reduction targets 
and  the  fulfilment  of  commitments  on  adaptation 
financing  for  vulnerable  small 
island  developing 
States.  Time  is  running  out  on  the  very  existence  of 
many  countries  in  the  face  of  rising  oceans  and 
increasingly intense storms.  

I  am  heartened  that  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  has  decided  to  place  special  emphasis  on 
sustainable  development  and  global  prosperity  during 
the  current  session.  But  the  citizens  of  the  world,  and 
indeed  many  of  its  Governments,  have  lost  faith  in 
endless  self-important  summits  that  produce  little  in 
the way of tangible results. The archives of the United 
Nations  are  filled  with  grandiloquent  declarations  and 
outcome documents from summits whose commitments 
were forgotten even before representatives had boarded 
their planes to return home from their exotic venues. 

Next  year,  the  issue  of  development  returns  to 
Latin  America  for  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable  Development  (Rio+20)  in  Brazil.  Rio+20 
income 
some  States 
their  gross  national 
will  take  place  one  decade  after  Mexico’s  heralded 
Monterrey  Consensus,  in  which  developed  countries 
committed themselves to the target of devoting 0.7 per 
cent  of 
to  official 
development assistance to developing countries. Today, 
even  accepting  the  liberal  definitions  and  creative 
accounting  used  by 
to  measure 
development  assistance,  developed  countries  are 
contributing  only  0.32  per  cent  of  their  gross  national 
income to official development assistance — less than 
half of the Monterrey target. We just have to make this 
better. We must do it right. It is just not good for us to 
be  taken  for  a  ride  all  of  these  years  with  all  of  these 
promises.  It  must  come  to  an  end  sometime,  and  the 
world  is  changing.  Let  us  get  it  right.  It  is  our 
responsibility. Please.  

In  that  regard,  our  dreams  remain  constantly 
unfulfilled.  I  am  reminded  of  the  poetic  inquiry  of 
Langston Hughes, an authentic voice of America, who 
asked simply this: 

“What happens to a dream deferred? 
Does it dry up 
like a raisin in the sun? 
Or fester like a sore — 
And then run? 
Does it stink like rotten meat? 
Or crust and sugar over — 
like a syrupy sweet? 
Maybe it just sags like a heavy load. 
Or does it explode?” 
Recent events in the streets of major cities around the 
world  have  probably  answered  Langston  Hughes’ 
queries. Talk is cheap. We must get some action.  

It  should  be  a  source  of  alarm  and  international 
embarrassment  that  the  composition  of  the  Security 
Council  is  an  ossified  relic  of  the  Second World War, 
seemingly  immune  to  the  modern  realities  of  new 
countries  and  new  global  Powers.  It  is  an  outrageous 
act  of 
that  such  an 
outmoded and increasingly illegitimate body is allowed 
to  decisively  insert  itself  into  local  and  regional 
conflicts. Saint Vincent and the Grenadines is adamant 
that  the  Security  Council  must  be  reformed,  and  that 
the  reform  must  be  underpinned  by  the  expansion  of 
the  Council  in  the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
categories  alike,  with  full  regard  for  the  legitimate 
aspirations 
necessary 
accommodations  for  small  island  developing  States, 
irresponsibility 
international 
of  Africa 
and 
the 
18 

11-51360 


which  have  valuable  and  creative  perspectives  on 
peacebuilding and conflict resolution. 

The  International  Year  for  People  of  African 
Descent,  which  was  declared  with  much  fanfare,  is 
almost at an  end. I am grateful to the United Nations, 
which  has  hosted  a  number  of  events 
to  raise 
awareness  of  the  challenges  facing  people  of  African 
descent and foster discussions on potential solutions to 
tackle those challenges. 

Racial  discrimination  was  justified  and  itself 
became  the  justification  for  a  brutal,  exploitative  and 
dehumanizing  system.  That  system  was  perfected 
during  the  transatlantic  slave  trade  and  ingrained  over 
the course of colonial domination. The structure of the 
modern world is still firmly rooted in a past of slavers 
and  colonialist  exploitation.  Today,  every  single 
country  of  the  world  with  a  population  of  majority 
African descent is still trapped in the periphery of our 
global  economic  and  developmental  systems.  The 
peoples  of  African  descent  remain  disadvantaged, 
individually  and  systemically,  by  the  entrenched  and 
unyielding cycle of discrimination. Indeed, many of the 
wars that the United Nations struggles mightily to quell 
or  avoid  are  rooted  in  the  ignorant  and  avaricious 
cartography of the European colonizers. 

The  people  of  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines 
have a long and proud history of resistance to slavery, 
bigotry  and  genocide,  dating  back  to  the  heroic 
resistance  of  the  Garifuna  people  against  British 
aggression  in  the  late  1700s.  While  we  celebrate  the 
noble heroism of the famous and the faceless alike who 
resisted racist colonial hegemony, we must continue to 
confront  the  legacy  of  this  barbarism  and  continuing 
injustice. The wounds  of that  era are deep, the  crimes 
against  humanity  are  clear  and  the  necessity  for 
apology and reparations is undeniable; we cannot duck 
those.  When  we  speak  this  year  about  the  peoples  of 
African  descent,  we  must  highlight  what  is  happening 
in the Horn of Africa and in Haiti.  

The  collective  voices  of 
international 
community are rising to a crescendo in support of full 
Palestinian 
the 
Grenadines echoes the relevant portions of yesterday’s 
Group  of  77  ministerial  declaration,  which  welcomed 
the State of Palestine’s application for full membership 
in  the  United  Nations.  The  State  of  Palestine  has 
brought its case to this world Assembly in keeping with 
the  finest  traditions  of  multilateralism.  No  one  should 
statehood.  Saint  Vincent 
and 
the 
A/66/PV.22
call  the  Palestinian  acts  unilateral. They  come  here  to 
the multilateral body. We have no doubt that its action 
and  the  solidarity  of  the  international  community  will 
resuscitate  the  moribund  negotiating  process  between 
the Palestinian and Israeli States. 

As I reflect on the sweeping geopolitical changes 
being wrought in our global village, I am compelled to 
raise the fact that there is no practical, legal or logical 
justification for the seeming indifference of the United 
Nations  to  the  meaningful  participation  of  Taiwan  in 
our  important  work.  Surely,  in  the  context  of  an  ever-
expanding and inclusive United Nations, the 23 million 
citizens of Taiwan can, at the very least, be allowed to 
meaningfully participate in the specialized agencies of 
the Organization — and that should extend beyond the 
World  Trade  Organization  and  the  World  Health 
Assembly.  

Mr.  Al-Nasser  assumes  the  presidency  amid  a 
cyclone  of  international  turbulence  and  change.  We 
may not be able to direct those winds, but we can, and 
must,  adjust  our  sails  to  harness  the  energy  and  the 
potential of this moment, while riding out the storms of 
uncertainty  and  upheaval.  Former  United  States 
President  Abraham  Lincoln  once  said,  in  a  different 
context:  


the  quiet  past  are 
inadequate to the stormy present. The occasion is 
piled high  with difficulty,  and we must  rise with 
the  occasion.  As  our  case  is  new,  so  we  must 
think anew and act anew.” 
Our  stormy  present  requires  similar  resolve, 

creativity  and  action.  Let  us  rise  to  the  occasion  and 
fulfil  the  immense  potential  of  this  peaceful  global 
Assembly.  Into  those  swirling  winds  of  change,  let  us 
raise  the  flag  of  inclusiveness,  equality,  peace,  justice 
and development for all the peoples of the world to see. 
May Almighty God continue to bless us all. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made. 

Mr.  Ralph  Gonsalves,  Prime  Minister  of  Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum. 
“The  dogmas  of 

11-51360 

19 
A/66/PV.22 




to  address 
inviting  him 
Mr.  Bhattarai
  Address by Mr. Baburam Bhattarai, Prime 
Minister of the Federal Democratic Republic 
of Nepal  
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Federal 
Democratic Republic of Nepal. 

Mr.  Baburam  Bhattarai,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Federal  Democratic  Republic  of  Nepal,  was 
escorted to the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Baburam  Bhattarai, 
Prime Minister of the Federal Democratic Republic of 
Nepal,  and 
the  General 
Assembly. 
(Nepal):  Let  me  begin  by 

congratulating  the  President  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth 
session. Let me also express our sincere appreciation to 
His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon, Secretary-General of 
the  United  Nations,  for  the  strong  commitment  and 
dedication  with  which  he  has  been  serving  the  United 
Nations.  We  wish  him  further  success  in  his  second 
term.  

Sudan as the newest member of the United Nations. 
It  is  a  distinct  honour  and  privilege  for  me  to 

bring  to  the  General  Assembly  the  voice  of  the 
voiceless  of  the  world.  I  have  brought  with  me 
greetings from the nearly 30 million toiling, but proud, 
people  of  Nepal,  who  have 
liberated 
themselves  from  an  age-old  feudal  monarchy  and 
autocracy.  Nepal  is  the  enchanting  land  of  Mount 
Everest,  the  top  of  the  world.  It  is  the  birthplace  of 
Gautam  Buddha,  the  apostle  of  peace.  It  possesses  an 
unbelievable variety of natural beauty and diversity. 

In recent years, a momentous transformation has 
taken  place  in  Nepal.  After  a  long  and  persistent 
struggle,  the  feudalistic  and  autocratic  monarchy  has 
been abolished. We have entered into a new historic era 
with  the  creation  of  the  new  Federal  Democratic 
Republic  of  Nepal.  Today,  the  new  State  apparatus 
strives 
the  multi-ethnic, 
multilingual and multicultural diversity of the country. 
The  abolition  of  all  discrimination  and  oppression  on 
the basis of class, gender, nationality, region and caste 
and the creation of an inclusive democratic system and 
a  just  society  are  at  the  heart  of  all  our  decades-long 
Nepal  warmly  welcomes  the  Republic  of  South 
into  account 
recently 
take 
to 
it 
is 
is 
rather, 
democracy 
our  multiparty 
struggles.  Thanks  to  the  ultimate  sacrifice  of  the 
thousands  of  martyrs  of  the  historic  people’s  war  of 
1996  to  2006,  the  people’s  movement  of  2006,  the 
Madheshi  movement  and  many  other  oppressed 
people’s movements, we have come this far to lay the 
foundation of a new Nepal.  

We  must  consolidate  those  historic  gains  and 
institutionalize  them  in  order  to  establish  sustainable 
peace, justice and prosperity for all. My Government is 
fully  committed  to  doing  that  with  the  conclusion  of 
the peace process and the writing of a new constitution 
through  the  Constituent Assembly  at  the  earliest.  The 
constitution  will  not  only  guarantee  fundamental 
democratic  norms  and  values,  but  it  will  also  ensure 
that 
inclusive, 
participatory  and  life-changing  for  all,  especially  the 
oppressed  labouring  masses  and  marginalized  people. 
It is rightly said that the highest measure of democracy 
is  neither  the  extent  of  freedom  nor  the  extent  of 
equality; 
the  highest  measure  of 
participation.  We  want  to  institutionalize  a  genuinely 
participatory democracy for all, particularly those who 
are downtrodden. 

In  that  context,  I  would  like  to  remind  the 
Assembly  of  the  poignant  words  expressed  from  this 
rostrum  in  2008  by  the  Chairman  of  my  party,  the 
Unified  Communist  Party  of  Nepal-Maoist,  and  the 
then  Prime  Minister,  Comrade  Prachanda,  about  the 
landless  peasants,  the  downtrodden  women,  the  so-
called untouchable dalits and the millions of exploited 
masses  of  Nepal,  who  aspire  to  liberation  from  all 
forms of oppression and exploitation. 

Nepal’s  home-driven  peace  process  and  historic 
transformation are unique and could be a good example 
for drawing lessons. We believe that transformation has 
to be holistic in order to have a long-lasting impact at 
the  grass-roots  level.  Transformation  in  the  political, 
social  and  economic  fields  has  to  be  brought  about 
holistically.  It  is  attainable  with  dedication,  dialogue 
and consensus-building among stakeholders. As in any 
other  country,  transitional  pains  and  delays  exist. 
However, we are united in our vision, and we intend to 
complete the transition process with the consensus and 
cooperation of all political parties and stakeholders. We 
are  confident  that,  with  international  goodwill  and 
cooperation, we will achieve it at the earliest. 

the 
fundamental  principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter, 
foreign  policy 
is  based  on 
Nepal’s 
20 

11-51360 
in 
our 
efforts 
support 
through 
community 
fountain  of  world  peace 
it,  we  particularly  appeal  for 


non-alignment  and  panchsheel  and  the  promotion  of 
regional  cooperation 
the  South  Asian 
Association  for  Regional  Cooperation.  We  would  like 
to  be  a  vibrant  bridge  between  our  two  neighbours, 
India  and  China,  and  beyond.  At  a 
time  when 
humankind is so much in  need of peace and when we 
all  strive  for 
the 
development of Lumbini, the birthplace of Buddha, as 
through  effective 
the 
international 
and 
cooperation. 
The 
International  Committee  for 
the  Development  of 
Lumbini needs to be reactivated at the earliest. 

I  extend  sincere  thanks  to  the  United  Nations, 
especially  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  Nepal,  for 
providing invaluable support and assistance throughout 
our  peace  process.  We  are  hopeful  that  we  will 
continue  to  receive  the  goodwill  and  support  of  the 
international 
to 
institutionalize  lasting  peace,  equity  and  prosperity  in 
the  country.  The  United  Nations  upholds  the  noble 
vision of peace and security, development, justice  and 
human rights for all. But if we look around the world, 
we have a long way to go to achieve this. We still face 
conflicts,  deprivation  and  demeaning  poverty  all 
around  us.  How  can  we  achieve  sustainable  peace  in 
the world when there is so much inequity, deprivation 
and  marginalization  around  us?  We  have  to  deal  with 
their root causes. How can one justify the spending of 
$1.5 trillion  on  war  weapons  every  year  while  more 
than  2  billion  people  across  the  globe  lack  the  basic 
necessities of food, medicine, et cetera? 
In that context, I appeal to the United Nations to 

come  forward  with  a  far-reaching  and  comprehensive 
development  package.  We  need  a  new  Marshall  Plan 
for  the  rebuilding  and  reconstruction  of  post-conflict 
countries.  Lip  service  and  symbolic  support  are  not 
enough. It is now time for a bold, visionary step to deal 
with the complex problems of today that would be the 
most  cost-effective  approach  to  deal  with  global 
problems and ensure sustainable peace. 

The  principles  and  purposes  of  the  Organization 
as  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
represent  the  highest  ideals  of  the  global  community. 
Yet we live in an age of paradox. The gap between the 
poor and the rich is ever-widening. Today, the level of 
inequality between States is the highest of any time in 
the past. Least developed countries (LDCs) — or, as I 
would prefer to call them, underdeveloped countries — 
A/66/PV.22
and 
inherent 
structural 
deficiencies 
are  facing  the  full  force  of  the  negative  side  of 
globalization that is its deep structural constraints.  

Growing  joblessness  is  a  major  challenge  for  all 
of us. In this integrated world, the grinding poverty of 
the masses, who number in the billions, is a recipe for 
disaster. Islands of prosperity amid a sea of poverty are 
unsustainable,  morally  indefensible  and  economically 
undesirable. In a globalized and interconnected world, 
our destiny is inextricably intertwined. When my house 
is on fire, your house cannot be safe, and vice versa. 
The recurrence of economic and financial crises, 

fuel  and  food  crises  and  the  deeper  structural  crises 
have  vindicated  the  need  to  seriously  review  the 
current  economic  paradigm.  I  believe  that  now  is  the 
right time for deeper soul-searching and the creation of 
a  new,  just  and  scientific  economic  order.  The  new 
global  economic  order  needs  to  deal  with  the  current 
global  volatility  and  the  growing  marginalization  of 
poor  and  weaker  economies.  The  financial,  capital-
driven  globalization  process  is  increasingly  exposing 
its 
its 
incompatibility. Unless the interest of labour, the basic 
source  of  human  wealth,  is  duly  integrated  in  this 
process,  we  may  soon  face  the  globalization  of  unrest 
and  upheaval.  The  United  Nations  should  act  as  the 
principal forum to examine that in a coherent, inclusive 
and holistic manner. 
Least  developed  countries  face  severe  structural 

their  development  efforts.  Their 
constraints  on 
further  aggravated  by 
vulnerabilities  have  been 
multiple  crises.  Despite  some  good  progress 
in 
achieving individual goals, LDCs as a group are mostly 
off-track  in  meeting  the  internationally  agreed  upon 
development  goals,  including  those  contained  in  the 
Millennium  Declaration  (resolution  55/2).  A  rights-
based approach to development is a must. 

It  is  quite  disheartening  that  even  today  about 
75 per  cent  of  LDC  populations  live  in  abject  poverty 
and  hunger.  This  situation  is  unacceptable  and  must 
come  to  an  end  sooner  rather  than  later.  Business  as 
usual  will  not  be  a  solution  to  deep-rooted  problems. 
The historically structured process of “development of 
underdevelopment” needs to be structurally addressed. 

The  Istanbul  Declaration  and  Programme  of 
Action must be implemented in their entirety and in an 
effective  and  timely  manner.  In  particular,  financing 
for  development  should  be  ensured  as  per 
the 
commitment that has been made. Duty-free, quota-free 
11-51360 

21 

landlocked  developing  countries 
A/66/PV.22 

market  access  and  supply-side  capacity  must  be 
ensured  to  LDCs.  Investment,  technology  transfer  and 
private  sector  development  should  be  promoted  in 
LDCs.  They  are  essential  to  achieving  the  legitimate 
aspirations  of  LDCs.  A  renewed  and  strengthened 
global  partnership  is  critical  to  their  implementation. 
We do not want to see another missed opportunity for 
LDCs. 

Nepal, in its capacity as Chair of the LDCs, will 
make  every  effort,  in  cooperation  with  our  fellow 
LDCs, to ensure that the issues and concerns of LDCs 
remain  high  on  the  priority  list  of  the  United  Nations 
development  agenda.  Similarly,  the  special  difficulties 
of 
should  be 
recognized.  Freedom  of  transit  should  be  ensured  to 
them as a matter of right, together with the scaling up 
of  support  for  trade  facilitation  and  infrastructure 
development. 

Labour  migration  is  a  global  phenomenon.  We 
must protect the rights of all migrant workers and their 
family  members  to  ensure  that  globalization  is  fair  to 
all. As  Nepal’s  economy  is  increasingly  dependent  on 
remittances, that issue is very crucial for us. 

Clearly, climate change has emerged as one of the 
greatest  challenges  of  the  twenty-first  century.  Global 
warming  has  precipitated  the  melting  of  the  snow  in 
the Nepal Himalayas, a source of fresh water for over 
1 billion  people  who  live  in  South  Asia.  We  have 
therefore 
the 
sustainable mountain agenda in order to highlight their 
special  vulnerabilities  and  fragilities.  Industrialized 
countries should bear greater responsibility for that. 

There  is  an  urgent  need  to  make  progress  in 
climate  negotiations  and  to  ensure  enhanced  and 
predictable  financing. The  United  Nations  Conference 
on  Sustainable  Development  summit  scheduled  for 
next  year  is  critical  to  defining  a  more  sustainable 
development path and to eradicating poverty for LDCs. 
The sustainable development agenda should encompass 
all  ecological  considerations,  including  the  crucial 
issue of sustainable mountain development. 

Nepal  reiterates  its  call  for  the  general  and 
complete  disarmament  of  all  weapons  of  mass 
destruction  in  a  time-bound  manner.  Nepal  strongly 
believes  that  regional  mechanisms  complement  efforts 
to promote the global disarmament agenda. The United 
Nations Regional Centre for Peace and Disarmament in 
Asia  and  the  Pacific,  located  in  Kathmandu,  could  be 
initiative  of  promoting 
taken 
the 
is 
international 
The  General  Assembly,  which 
instrumental  in  revitalizing  the  Kathmandu  process  to 
facilitate  dialogue  and  deliberations  on  confidence-
building in the region. 

Nepal unequivocally condemns terrorism in all its 
forms  and  manifestations  and  calls  for  an  expeditious 
conclusion  of  the  negotiations  on  a  comprehensive 
convention  on 
terrorism.  We  should 
terrorism  and  struggles  for 
differentiate  between 
freedom. 

Nepal’s commitment to human rights is deep and 
unflinching. We are fully aware that the protection and 
promotion  of  all  human  rights,  including  the  right  to 
development  and  fundamental  freedoms,  strengthens 
the  sustainability  of  peace  and  progress.  We  have 
established  an  independent  constitutional  body  —  the 
National Human Rights Commission — as a watchdog 
institution.  We  are  committed 
to  building  and 
strengthening  that  specialized  national  institution  as  a 
true custodian of human rights. 

the  only 
universally  representative  body  at  the  global  level, 
needs  to  be  given  commensurate  power  and  authority 
to  truly  work  as  a  world  parliament.  It  should  not 
remain 
the 
expansion  in  the  membership  of  the  Security  Council 
in both categories. Reform must address all interrelated 
issues,  such  as  representation,  as  well  as  transparency 
and  accountability  in  the  working  methods  of  the 
Security Council. The role and contributions of smaller 
States  in  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security must be duly acknowledged. 

We  underline  the  crucial  role  of  the  United 
Nations  in  promoting  international  cooperation  for 
development. Its  role in shaping the policy debate on, 
and  establishing  global  norms 
in,  economic  and 
financial  matters  must  be 
strengthened.  Nepal 
welcomes  all  efforts  aimed  at  promoting  system-wide 
coherence, 
of 
UN-Women. 

in  United  Nations 
Nepal’s 
peacekeeping  is  long-standing  and  consistent.  We 
remain  steadfast  in  our  commitment  to  international 
peace  and  security.  Nepal  has  already  provided  more 
than  80,000  peacekeepers,  with  62  of  our  soldiers 
having  laid  down  their  lives  in  the  line  of  duty.  We 
would therefore like to call for equitable representation 
at the leadership level. 
toothless.  Similarly,  Nepal  supports 
operationalization 
participation 
including 
the 
22 

11-51360 



In recent times, we have witnessed an outpouring 
of  popular  sentiment  calling  for  change  and  freedom 
around  the  world.  We  believe  that  this  is  a  sign  of  a 
new beginning, where people are asserting themselves 
as the masters of their own destinies. We applaud these 
changes.  We  should  support 
the 
them  based  on 
the  United  Nations. 
fundamental  principles  of 
However,  no  one  should  hijack 
the  agenda  of 
democracy for partisan ends. 

The  long-drawn-out  peace  process  in  the  Middle 
East is a matter of serious concern for us all. We must 
find  a  comprehensive  and  just  solution  to  these 
problems. It is our principled position that we support a 
fully independent and sovereign Palestinian State based 
on  United  Nations  resolutions. We  look  forward  to  its 
materialization at the earliest date. 

Finally,  let  me  reiterate  that  the  United  Nations 
principles must be holistic and should be pursued in a 
balanced  manner. The  United  Nations  should  not  only 
be the custodian of its noble principles; it must deliver 
on  its  promises.  Let  it  not  be  a  mere  umbrella  for  the 
big  Powers.  In  today’s  globalized  world,  the  United 
Nations  has  more  responsibility  than  ever  before  for 
creating  an  inclusive  and  just  global  order.  Let  it  not 
falter in its historic duties. 

Let  the  United  Nations  serve  the  larger  interests 
of 
the 
the  poor  and 
international 
economic 
transformation  of  the  least  developed  countries  with  a 
rights-based  approach  be  at  the  top  of  the  United 
Nations  agenda.  Let  the  United  Nations  not  fail  the 
aspirations of millions of people for freedom, equality 
and prosperity. Let its vision be translated into a visible 
change  in  the  lives  of  oppressed  people.  Last  but  not 
least,  let  us  keep  in  mind  that  either  we  all  reach  the 
goal of global peace and prosperity together, or nobody 
will. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Federal  Democratic  Republic  of  Nepal 
the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Baburam  Bhattarai,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic  of  Nepal,  was  escorted 
the 
rostrum. 
the  weakest  segment  of 
community. 
from 
Let 
the 
for 

11-51360 

A/66/PV.22


  Address by Mr. Navinchandra Ramgoolam, 
Prime Minister, Minister of Defence, Home 
Affairs and External Communications, Minister 
of Civil Service and Administrative Reforms of 
the Republic of Mauritius 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister,  Minister  of 
Defence, Home Affairs and External Communications, 
Minister  of  Civil  Service  and Administrative  Reforms 
of the Republic of Mauritius  

Mr.  Navinchandra  Ramgoolam,  Prime  Minister, 
Minister  of  Defence,  Home  Affairs  and  External 
Communications,  Minister  of  Civil  Service  and 
Administrative  Reforms  of 
the  Republic  of 
Mauritius, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  have  great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Navinchandra  Ramgoolam,  Prime 
Minister,  Minister  of  Defence,  Home  Affairs  and 
External  Communications,  Minister  of  Civil  Service 
and  Administrative  Reforms  of 
the  Republic  of 
Mauritius,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. 
(Mauritius):  The  primary 

purpose of the United Nations is to maintain peace and 
security,  as  set  out  in  the  very  first  Article  of  its 
top  priority  of 
Charter.  This 
the 
international community and of the United Nations. 

However,  66  years  after  the  adoption  of  the 
Charter,  our  definition  of  peace  and  security  differs 
from  what  it  was  in  the  immediate  aftermath  of  the 
Second World War. Our concerns today are wider than 
the mere suppression of aggression or similar breaches 
of  peace.  We  are  now  equally  concerned  about  the 
threats  to  peace  and  security  resulting  from  factors 
other  than  armed  aggression.  Tensions  exist,  within 
nations  and  among  nations,  as  a  result  of  unequal 
access  to  resources,  the  lack  of  food  security,  or 
existential  threats  because  of  the  inability  to  address 
climate  change issues.  Insecurity  also results from the 
absence of an adequate international mechanism for the 
redress  of  grievances  and  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes. 

I  propose  to  deal  with  four  of  the  constitutive 
elements  of  present-day  security  that  the  international 
community  and  the  United  Nations  should  address, 
Mr.  Ramgoolam
remains 
the 
23 
While 
A/66/PV.22 

namely,  the  elements  of  economic,  environmental, 
human and legal security. 

When peoples and nations feel inextricably mired 
in  poverty  and  face  bleak  prospects  for  development, 
they  are  insecure  about  their  future.  That  economic 
insecurity  may  ultimately  threaten  global  peace.  The 
current  economic  turmoil  is  deepening  the  despair  of 
those  who  live  in  need  and  is  spreading  despondency, 
even 
in  relatively  affluent  countries.  The  world 
economy has yet to recover from the crisis of 2008. 
Today,  Europe  and  North America  struggle  with 

budget  deficits,  unsustainable  debts 
and  high 
unemployment.  At  the  same  time,  the  recent  political 
turmoil across the Middle East could mean that oil and 
food  prices  will  continue 
to  rise.  As  developed 
economies  grapple  with  these  serious  challenges,  the 
developing  world  finds  itself  negatively  impacted  by 
economic and financial crises resulting from failures in 
which it had absolutely no part. 

the  ability  of  established  developed 
countries to deal with economic and financial problems 
is in question, the world is witnessing the rapid rise of 
a  number  of  emerging  economies.  As  the  economic 
centre  of  gravity  shifts  eastward  and  creates  new 
opportunities,  we  must  ensure  that  those  formidable 
global challenges do not create economic insecurity for 
those who feel left behind and that they do not lead to 
other threats to international security. 

these 
transformations  judiciously  and  with  pragmatism.  In 
that  context,  I  must  stress  the  particular  economic 
vulnerabilities  of  small 
island  developing  States 
(SIDS). The economies of SIDS remain highly volatile 
because of their open economies, small economic size, 
narrow  resource  base,  disadvantages  in  economies  of 
scale,  high  export  concentration,  dependency  on 
imports  and  high  vulnerability  to  energy-  and  food-
price shocks. 
We  reiterate  that  SIDS  need  to  be  granted 

preferential  treatment  as  part  of  a  global  strategy  to 
ensure economic security. Regrettably, SIDS have been 
denied 
their  specific 
vulnerabilities  that  would  entitle  them  to  special 
consideration.  My  delegation 
the 
implementation of the Barbados Plan of Action and the 
Mauritius  Strategy  for  the  Further  Implementation  of 
the  Programme  of  Action 
the  Sustainable 
Development of Small Island Developing States. 
that  we  manage 
recognition  of 
fully  supports 
imperative 
formal 
the 
It 
is 

the  specialized  nature  of 

As there are increasing concerns over issues such 
as  employment,  food  security,  climate  change  and 
access to water, it is a matter of regret that trade talks 
that  could  give  a  boost  to  international  trade,  and 
therefore to economic security, are stalled. 

On a broader note, I must say that talks on trade 
and other economic issues, to the extent that they take 
place  at  all,  are  held  in  sectoral  and  often  restricted 
forums.  While 
these 
negotiations,  or  of  the  scope  of  the  matters  being 
addressed  by  standard-setting  organizations,  may 
require dedicated sectoral frameworks, it is imperative 
that  the  international  community  ensures  that  those 
frameworks  are 
legitimate  ones,  with  universal 
membership. It is also imperative that, as an apex body, 
the  United  Nations  have  a  holistic  view  on  global 
economic, financial, trade and development issues. 

During  the  1970s,  the  United  Nations  played  a 
significant  role  in  shaping  the  conceptual  framework 
for  a  new  international  economic  order.  The  United 
Nations has adopted a number of landmark resolutions 
that  have  laid  the  normative  foundation  for  a  more 
equitable economic order. The United Nations still has 
a  role  to  play  in  shaping  the  world  economic  order  to 
ensure  economic  security,  in  accordance  with  its 
mandate  under  the  Charter. The  United  Nations  is  the 
only 
the 
necessary  legitimacy  and  universality  but  also  the 
responsibility to have an overview of global economic 
development.  In  doing  so,  the  United  Nations  will 
ensure  policy  coordination  among  forums  for  various 
sectors, set principles and guidelines for sector-specific 
negotiations, and assume its ultimate responsibility for 
the economic security of all nations. 

To  reaffirm  its  responsibility  with  respect  to 
economic  security,  the  United  Nations  must  not  only 
undergo  reforms 
institutions  and  working 
methods,  it  must  also  re-balance  its  focus  on  political 
and economic issues. In this regard, the Economic and 
Social  Council  must  be  given  the  prominence  it  was 
intended  to  have  as  one  of  the  principal  organs  of  the 
United Nations. And in assuming its responsibility with 
respect 
reformed  and 
revitalized  United  Nations  will  have  to  work  more 
closely  with  regional  cooperative  institutions,  which 
are the pillars of international cooperation. 

The  high  food  prices  of  2007  and  2008  and  the 
global economic crisis led millions of people into food 
international  organization  with  not 
to  economic 
security,  a 
just 
its 
in 
for 
24 

11-51360 
and 
increase 
inequalities 
in  world  population 
the  part  of  all  sections  of 


insecurity  and  raised  the  total  number  of  people  who 
go  hungry  to  more  than  1  billion.  Commodity  prices 
remain high and the risk of repeated crises is real. With 
the  projected 
to 
9.1 billion by 2050, and the rising costs of production, 
there is a risk of persistent price volatility. That will be 
exacerbated  by  the  effects  of  climate  change.  The 
international  community  must 
therefore  seriously 
address the issue of food insecurity around the world.  

Economic security also entails working towards a 
more inclusive national society without discrimination, 
eliminating 
fostering  wider 
participation  on 
the 
community in national development and governance. 

Two  days  ago,  at  our  14th  meeting,  we  gathered 
to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the adoption 
of  the  Durban  Declaration  and  Programme  of Action. 
We welcome the progress achieved in the fight against 
racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related 
intolerance  since  2001. We  nonetheless  recognize  that 
in  spite  of  these  efforts,  many  people  continue  to  be 
victims of these despicable practices. 
We  commend  the  United  Nations  on  the  success 

of the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on 
Youth (see A/65/PVs.111 and 112) and the adoption of 
the 
65/312). 
Development  and 
require  greater 
participation  by  young  people  in  the  formulation  of 
strategies and policies.  

In that same spirit, we welcome the establishment 
of UN-Women and its overarching vision of a world in 
which societies are free of gender-based discrimination 
and  where  women  and  men  have  equal  opportunities, 
respect  and  consideration.  A  more  inclusive  world, 
where  women’s  intellectual  and  economic  potential  is 
fully realized, will promote economic security. 

In  June  of  next  year,  world  leaders  will  meet  in 
Rio  de  Janeiro  to  renew  their  political  commitment  to 
sustainable  development  and,  hopefully, 
to  adopt 
concrete  measures  that  will  contribute  to  greater 
economic security. But before we can move ahead, we 
to  consider  why  so  many  past 
will  also  have 
commitments  have  not  been  honoured.  We 
look 
forward to the oceans receiving the attention that they 
deserve at Rio, as part of the broader economic agenda. 
Small  island  States  in  particular  are  relying  on  the 
international  community  to  give  due  attention  to  the 
sustainability of the oceans in the context of the United 
security  will 
(resolution 
document 
outcome 
A/66/PV.22
is 
is  now 
Climate  change 
Humanity  as  a  whole 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
(Rio+20)  and  beyond.  The  sustainability  of  oceans  is 
crucial  to  the  security  and,  in  some  cases,  the  very 
survival of many small island States. 

increasingly 
concerned  about  its  environmental  security,  probably 
more  than  it  has  ever  been  in  its  history.  For  some 
small  island  nations,  this  concern  is,  in  fact,  an 
existential  one.  In  recent  decades  the  United  Nations 
has  brought  to  the  fore  the  concept  of  sustainable 
development  and  the  measures  required  to  promote 
such development. The preparatory work under way for 
Rio+20 has highlighted the serious gaps we still face in 
this  area.  The  disruptions  resulting  from  climate 
change pose a real threat to global security. 

real.  Extreme  weather 
phenomena such as super-storms, floods, droughts and 
heat-waves  are  already  upon  us.  Climate  change  is 
affecting us in our daily life, and it threatens the very 
survival  of  many  small  islands.  Mauritius  is  already 
experiencing the adverse effects of climate change. Air 
temperature  has  risen  by  0.6°  to  1.1°C  in  different 
microclimates  over  recent  decades.  The  sea  level  is 
rising  at  the  rate  of  1.2  millimetres  per  year  in  the 
south-west  Indian  Ocean.  Our  annual  rainfall  has 
decreased  by  8  per  cent  compared  to  the  1950s. 
Extreme  weather  conditions  such  as  flooding  are 
becoming more frequent. 
Without  international  cooperation  and  concerted 

action, 
impact  of  climate  change  will  be 
devastating  for  all  our  nations.  My  delegation  firmly 
believes 
the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change 
the  primary 
international,  intergovernmental  forum  for  negotiating 
the  global  response  to  climate  change.  Small  island 
nations  are  economically  vulnerable,  and 
their 
vulnerability 
dramatic 
consequences  of  climate  change.  Small  island  States 
rely on the international community for their security. 

Mauritius  is  committed  to  the  concept  of  the 
green economy. We recognize that it is not a one-size-
fits-all  notion.  Countries  need  to  reflect  their  own 
national priorities and realities in their implementation 
of it.  

My Government has been  pursuing a  sustainable 
development strategy. The Maurice Ile Durable project, 
which  we  adopted  in  2008,  is  taking  shape,  and  a 
range  of  measures  have  already  been 
whole 
exacerbated 
that 
the 
the 
by 
is 
is 
11-51360 

25 

in 
are 
to 
availability 
A/66/PV.22 

implemented.  We  propose  to  increase  the  share  of 
renewable energy in the generation of power from the 
present 18 per cent to 35 per cent by 2025, by making 
more  intensive  use  of  biofuels  and  wave,  solar  and 
wind  energy.  To  that  end  in  May  last  year  I  set  up  a 
full-fledged ministry with responsibility for sustainable 
engaged 
development.  We 
a  national 
consultation  process 
formulate  strategies  and 
policies  that  have  public  support  and  are  designed  to 
protect  the  environment,  deliver  social  justice  and 
create a sustainable economy. 

Climate  has  impacted  the  water  cycle  both 
directly  and  indirectly,  and  will  continue  to  do  so,  by 
affecting  precipitation  and  evaporation  cycles  as  well 
as  water 
and  patterns  of  water 
consumption.  Many  regions  of  the  world  are  already 
experiencing  reduced  rainfall.  As  climate  change 
intensifies and water scarcity becomes more acute, the 
threat of tensions among different nations and different 
users may increase. The international community must 
therefore  work  together  to  address  this  pressing  issue. 
Environmental security must be a priority of the United 
Nations in promoting global security. 

As well as dealing with the existential threat that 
climate  change poses  for some nations,  people  around 
the  world  continue  to  be  concerned  about  their  own 
security. I will mention four such concerns.  

of 
international  security  strategy.  The  threat  to  humanity 
posed by the  continued existence of nuclear  and other 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  is  a  universal  concern. 
Our  failure  to  resolve  the  issue  of  disarmament 
continues 
to  undermine  global  development  and 
security.  A  significant  reduction  in  the  production  of 
conventional  weapons  and  eventually  a  world  free  of 
nuclear  weapons  are  goals  that  will  be  achieved  only 
over 
require  patience  and 
perseverance.  As  a  matter  of  fact,  the  international 
political environment is now probably more conducive 
to the realization of these goals than it has ever been. 

Terrorism  continues  to  be  a  threat  to  security. 
Recent  events  have  reminded  us  that  acts  of  terrorism 
can be perpetrated by extremists from all points on the 
political spectrum, and that terrorism is equally capable 
of  breeding  in  both  poor  and  rich  countries.  The 
international  community  needs  to  follow  up  on  the 
United Nations Global Counter-Terrorism Strategy and 
enhance international cooperation in that regard. 
Disarmament 
component 
time,  and 
that  will 
a  major 
is 
to 
that 
renewed 
in  June 
The  World  Drug  Report 2011  again  shows  that 

drug  trafficking  and  consumption  remain  significant. 
Narco-trafficking  and  drug  money  in  organized  crime 
and  terrorist  activities  are  a  threat  to  stability  and 
security  at  the  national  and  regional  levels.  As  we 
celebrate  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  the  1961  Single 
Convention  on  Narcotic  Drugs,  let  us  recommit  our 
efforts  to  fight  drug  trafficking  as  part  of  the  global 
strategy to ensure human security. 

We are 30 years into the fight against HIV/AIDS, 
which is an ever-present threat to human security. I am 
convinced that we have achieved more in the 10 years 
since  the  special  session  of  the  General Assembly  on 
HIV/AIDS than we did in the previous two decades. It 
the  High-level  Meeting  on 
is  heartening 
HIV/AIDS  held 
the  political 
commitment  of  Governments  to  halting  and  reversing 
the spread of HIV/AIDS and to ensuring that, by 2015, 
no  child  is  born  with  HIV  (see  resolution  65/277, 
annex). 

Mauritius fully adheres to the UNAIDS vision of 
uniting  for  universal  access.  The  National  AIDS 
Secretariat,  which  I  set  up  in  May  2007,  pursues  its 
work 
zero 
discrimination  and  zero  AIDS-related  deaths 
in 
Mauritius. 

Article 2 of the United Nations Charter  provides 
that all Members shall settle their disputes by peaceful 
means.  Article  33  spells  out  the  means  and  ways  of 
doing  so.  In  the  same  spirit,  the  Charter  provides  in 
Chapter XIV for the establishment of the International 
Court of Justice. 

However,  recourse  to  international  adjudication 
for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  between  States 
has,  historically,  required  the  consent  of  the  States 
concerned.  In  recent  times,  a  number  of  bilateral  or 
multilateral  agreements  have  provided  for  the  prior 
commitment  of  States  to  submit  to  arbitration  or 
adjudication. We welcome that development. 

Security requires the appropriate legal framework 
for  the  redress  of  grievances  or  the  settlement  of 
disputes. The international community has yet to set up 
adequate  machinery  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes that is available to all States. 

The General Assembly has decided to convene  a 
high-level meeting during the sixty-seventh session on 
the rule of law. We welcome that decision, but we want 
zero  new 
infections, 
achieve 
26 

11-51360 
failed 


to stress that the debate on the rule of law must apply 
at  both  the  national  and  international  level. We  would 
therefore look forward to the Assembly discussing the 
rule of law as it applies to inter-State relations as part 
of the forthcoming debates. 

Allow  me  to  give  as  an  example  the  difficulties 
that  my  own  country  has  experienced  in  resolving  a 
dispute  with  the  former  colonial  Power,  the  United 
Kingdom,  relating  to  decolonization.  The  Chagos 
Archipelago,  which  is  part  of  Mauritian  territory,  was 
excised from Mauritius prior to independence, in total 
disregard of resolutions 1514 (XV) and 2066 (XX) and 
the  principles  of  international  law,  and  was  declared 
the  so-called  British  Indian  Ocean  Territory.  The 
United  Kingdom  has 
to  engage 
in  any 
meaningful discussions with us on the matter. 

When the Government of Mauritius consequently 
announced in 2004 that it would refer the dispute to the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  the  United  Kingdom 
immediately amended its declaration, under Article 36 
of  the  Court’s  Statute,  to  reject  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
Court with respect to certain disputes with a member or 
former member of the Commonwealth. That illustrates 
the kind of difficulties that a State may face in settling 
a claim under international law. The States involved in 
the  dispute  may  refuse  to  negotiate  in  good  faith  and 
seek  to  ensure  that  no  international  tribunal  can 
determine the law applicable to the dispute.  

We  call  on  the  United  Nations  to  keep  under 
review  the  whole  issue  of  the  settlement  of  disputes, 
including  by  judicial  means,  and  to  set  standards  of 
conduct  for  all  States  with  respect  to  negotiation, 
conciliation,  mediation  or  other  forms  of  non-judicial 
and peaceful settlement of disputes or, alternatively, to 
the submission of the dispute to adjudication. 

In  that  context,  Mauritius  is  particularly  pleased 
to welcome the decision of the President of the General 
Assembly  to  adopt  as  the  theme  of  its  current  session 
the role of mediation in settling international disputes. 
We affirm our full support in advancing that cause. 

Greater  legal  security  also  requires  better  global 
governance.  In  that  respect,  the  United  Nations  must 
lead  by  example.  The  United  Nations  must  recognize 
that the world has changed since 1945. Current efforts 
to adopt reforms in relation to the Security Council, the 
revitalization of the General Assembly and the working 
methods of our Organization must be given the sincere 
and strong support that is required. 
A/66/PV.22
continues 
to  believe 
in 
supports 
My  delegation 
security.  Mauritius 
the  membership  of  both 

that 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  Security  Council  should 
include  reform 
the 
permanent  and  the  non-permanent  categories.  Africa 
should no longer be deprived of its right to permanent 
representation  on  the  Council.  My  delegation  fully 
supports the African common position enshrined in the 
Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte Declaration. 

We equally believe that Latin America also fully 
deserves  permanent  representation  on  the  Council. 
Mauritius  further  reiterates  its  support  for  India’s 
rightful  aspiration  to  a  permanent  seat  in  a  reformed 
Security Council. 

We  also  look  forward  to  a  more  all-inclusive 
United  Nations  system  that  can  effectively  address 
issues  of  international  security,  with  the  admission  of 
Palestine  as  a  Member  State. The  United  Nations  and 
the  international  community  have  a  duty  to  restore  to 
the  Palestinian  people  their  dignity  and  their  right  to 
statehood  and 
the 
application for full membership of the United Nations, 
submitted  to  the  Secretary-General  yesterday  by  the 
President  of  the  State  of  Palestine  (A/66/371,  annex), 
and  the  legitimate  aspiration  of  the  Palestinian  people 
to 
international 
community.  We  welcome  the  statement  by  President 
Abbas  at  the  19th  meeting  that  Palestine  extends  its 
hands to the Israeli Government and the Israeli people 
for peacemaking and for building cooperative relations 
between the States of Palestine and Israel. 

We are also pleased to welcome the emergence of 
South  Sudan  as  an  independent  and  a  sovereign  State 
and its admission to the United Nations. 

about matters of interest to our region. 

As a coastal State of the Indian Ocean, Mauritius 
is concerned by piracy, which poses a threat to global 
commerce.  It  hinders  economic  development  and  has 
become  a  major  security  issue  in  the  region  and 
beyond. We welcome the response of the international 
community  to  that  serious  threat.  Cognizant  of  the 
problems that arise in connection with the prosecution 
and detention of pirates, Mauritius has offered to assist 
with the prosecution and detention of pirates. Mauritius 
and  the  European  Union  signed  an  agreement  in  July 
this  year  to  enhance  our  capacity  to  contribute  to  the 
international effort under way in that regard. 
Before  I  conclude,  I  wish  to  say  a  few  words 
take 
their  rightful  place 
in 
the 
11-51360 

27 
the  African  Union  and  of 
the  Chagos  Archipelago  by 
A/66/PV.22 


If  the  international  response  to  the  famine  in 
Somalia  is  not  commensurate  with  the  immense  and 
immediate  needs  of  the  people,  we  fear  that  the 
problem of piracy will only worsen. 

The continued unlawful occupation of the Chagos 
Archipelago  by  the  United  Kingdom  is  a  matter  of 
concern for the region. Mauritius welcomes the support 
of 
the  Non-Aligned 
Movement  for  the  territorial  integrity  of  our  country. 
The  purported  declaration  of  a  marine  protected  area 
around 
the  United 
Kingdom, in breach of the United Nations Convention 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  is  another  cause  for  concern. 
That  is  why,  in  December  of  last  year,  Mauritius 
commenced arbitration proceedings against the United 
Kingdom under the 1982 Convention on the Law of the 
Sea. 

As regards Tromelin, Mauritius and France made 
progress  with  an  agreement  on  joint  management, 
without  prejudice  to  our  sovereignty.  However,  we 
need to continue our dialogue for at the end of the day, 
the  territorial  integrity  of  Mauritius  will  not  be 
complete without the return of Tromelin. 

the  Southern  African 
Development Community (SADC) and current Chair of 
the Indian Ocean Commission, Mauritius welcomes the 
signing  last  week  of  an  agreement  between  leading 
stakeholders  on  a  road  map  for  the  restoration  of 
democracy  in  our  neighbouring  State  of  Madagascar. 
That  agreement  was  reached  following  the  relentless 
efforts of SADC and the Indian Ocean Commission to 
bring  the  parties  together.  Implementation  of  the  road 
map  requires 
local 
elections,  for  which  significant  resources  need  to  be 
mobilized.  We  call  on  the  United  Nations  and  the 
international community to extend all their support for 
the successful implementation of the road map. 
(spoke in French) 
economic, 

environmental, legal or even, in some cases, existential 
fronts calls for a review of the mandated obligations of 
the  United  Nations.  While  the  initial  concerns  of  the 
founding fathers about threats to international security 
remain valid, the international community today is just 
as  concerned  by  other  threats  to  its  security  and  other 
challenges to be tackled. 
the  holding  of  national  and 
a  member  of 
security  on 
the 
The 
lack  of 
As 


I  would  add  that,  in  updating  this  concept  of 
security and, by extension, in redefining the role of the 
United Nations, the international community must also 
foster  dialogue  among  cultures  and  civilizations.  We 
welcome the Secretary-General’s initiative to create the 
Alliance of Civilizations, whose mission is to improve 
understanding and relations among nations and peoples 
of  different  cultures  and  religions  and  to  assist  efforts 
to halt the forces that fuel divisions and extremism.  

Tensions  are  often  caused  by  ignorance,  by  fear 
of  others  and  by  feelings  of  justice  denied.  Thus  it  is 
crucial  not  only  to  maintain  dialogue  among  nations 
and peoples,  but also to promote the understanding of 
cultures and civilizations. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister, Minister 
of  Defence,  Home  Affairs 
External 
Communications,  Minister  of  Civil  Service  and 
Administrative  Reforms  of  the  Republic  of  Mauritius 
for the statement he has just made.  

Mr.  Navinchandra  Ramgoolam,  Prime  Minister, 
Minister  of  Defence,  Home  Affairs  and  External 
Communications,  Minister  of  Civil  Service  and 
Administrative  Reforms  of 
the  Republic  of 
Mauritius, was escorted from the rostrum. 
and 



  Address by Mr. Sali Berisha, Prime Minister of 
the Republic of Albania 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Albania. 

Mr. Sali Berisha, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Albania, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sali  Berisha,  Prime 
Minister  of  the  Republic  of Albania,  and  inviting  him 
to address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Berisha  (Albania):  First,  I  would  like  to 

extend my heartfelt congratulations to the President of 
the General Assembly on his election. I wish him every 
success  in  leading  the  work  of  the  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-sixth  session.  I  would 
to  express  my 
gratitude 
invaluable 
to  his  predecessor 
contribution. May I also take this opportunity to extend 
special  thanks  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for 
his  excellent  organization  of  this  session  and  for  his 
wise  and  determined  leadership  at  the  helm  of  the 
like 
for  his 
28 

11-51360 


United Nations over the past few years. I wish him the 
utmost success over the four years ahead. 

Our  world  today  is  experiencing  major  and 
complex  crises that threaten the peace  and stability of 
several  regions  and  our  planet  as  a  whole.  However, 
this  year’s  spring  was  a  great  and  historic  one  for 
Africa  and  the  entire  world.  More  than  125  million 
oppressed people stood up with courage, determination 
and sacrifice  and overthrew tyrannical  regimes in five 
countries in Africa and opened the gates of freedom for 
their nations. 

As  a  representative  of  a  country  that  only  20 
years  ago  brought  down  the  Hoxhaist  dictatorship  — 
the worst that Albania and Europe had ever known — I 
would  like 
to  cordially  welcome  and  salute  the 
representatives  of  Egypt, Tunisia,  Libya,  South  Sudan 
and  Ivory  Coast  who  are  present  at  this  Assembly 
session.  Today,  we  pay  tribute  to  the  thousands  of 
citizens of those countries who with great courage and 
legendary  bravery  lost  their  lives  in  order  to  liberate 
their  countries  from  ruthless  tyrannies  and  who  made 
their  countries,  the  African  continent  and  the  entire 
world  more  free  and  more  just  than  ever.  With  their 
sacrifices,  however,  those  who  fought  and  fell  in  the 
name  of  freedom  have  delivered  a  sacred  message  to 
the  very  hearts  and  minds  of  all  oppressed  people  on 
our planet: Be not afraid! 

On  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  fall  of  the 
communist  dictatorship,  despite  the  unquestionable 
difficulties inherent in building a democracy based on 
market  values, Albania  has  continuously  affirmed  that 
for  the  individual,  our  society  and  our  nation  as  a 
whole freedom is the greatest of all assets and riches. 

Twenty  years  ago, Albania  was  one  of  the  three 
poorest  countries  in  the  world,  plagued  by  extreme 
poverty and chronic starvation. Today, Albania belongs 
to the group of countries with middle to upper income 
levels.  Formerly  a  totally  hyper-collectivized  country, 
today it has the smallest public sector in Europe, with 
more  than  84  per  cent  of  its  gross  domestic  product 
(GDP) coming from the private sector. 
Twenty  years  ago,  human  rights  and  freedoms 

the  country’s  Constitution. 
were  forbidden  under 
Today,  Albania 
is  a  country  with  a  functional 
democracy, freedom of speech and free elections and in 
which  there  is  full  respect  for  minority  rights  and 
religious tolerance par excellence. 
A/66/PV.22

Albania  was  the  most  isolated  country  in  the 
world. Now, it is a member of the North Atlantic Treaty 
alliance  and  makes  its  contribution  to  peace  and 
stability  in  the  region  and  beyond,  while  remaining 
firmly  focused  on  its  path  towards  European  Union 
integration.  Today,  Albanians  travel  freely  throughout 
Europe, while the number of foreign citizens who have 
visited  Albania  for  tourism  and  other  purposes  has 
increased,  from  300,000  in  2004  to  3.5  million  last 
year. 

Recently,  during  this  period  of  major  European 
and  global 
financial  crises,  Albania’s  economy 
remained  one  of  the  few  in  the  world  that  did  not 
experience a recession. The United Nations Conference 
on  Trade  and  Development  estimates  that  global 
foreign  direct  investment  decreased  by  37  per  cent 
from  2007  to  2010,  while  the  same  source  confirms 
that  in Albania  it  grew  by  316  per  cent  from  2006  to 
2010. 

Mr.  Fassi  Fihri  (Morocco),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair. 

Over  the  past  few  years,  Albanian  exports  have 
grown by 300 per cent. Unemployment has decreased, 
and  so  has  poverty,  by  a  margin  of  some  30  per  cent. 
Our  economic  model  is  based  entirely  on  economic 
freedom.  Last  year,  that  freedom  suffered  a  major 
setback worldwide, whereas in my country it increased 
by 16 per cent. 

The Albanian  economy  is  not  detached  from  the 
global  economy.  In  fact,  the  opposite  is  true:  being  a 
small economy, it is linked to and affected by it. That is 
why  I  believe  that  four  main  factors  determine  its 
performance. 

The first factor is a small government and public 
sector.  Albania’s  public  administration  and  public 
sector are at least 50 per cent smaller than those of any 
other similarly sized country in the region and beyond. 
Furthermore, I am pleased to state that my Government 
ranks  among  the  top  10  Governments  with  the  lowest 
level of interference in the economy. 

Secondly, Albania  is  a  country  of  flat-rate  taxes. 
At  10  per  cent,  its  fiscal  burden  is  the  lowest  in 
Europe.  The  increase  in  fiscal  freedoms  and  the 
successful fight against corruption allowed our country 
to  double  its  budgetary  revenue  from  customs  and 
taxes in four years’ time. 
11-51360 

29 

A/66/PV.22 


Thirdly,  we  invested  heavily  in  infrastructure  to 
stimulate growth. My Government has spent 8 per cent 
to 10 per cent of our GDP on road infrastructure alone, 
three years in a row. A total of 8,000 km of new roads 
have been  constructed, more than in the entire history 
of the country. Within the next two years, Albania will 
have  a  new  and  modern  road  infrastructure  that  will 
allow  our  citizens  as  well  as  foreign  visitors  to  reach 
our  capital,  Tirana,  from  any  part  of  the  country  in 
60 per cent less time than previously required. 

Fourthly,  we  have  made  it  easier  to  open  a 
business or expand an existing one by putting in place 
an  efficient  digital  one-stop-shopping  system  for 
business  registrations,  licences  and  permits,  and  by 
drastically reducing bureaucratic procedures. 

Yet  the  debt  and  the  euro  crisis  are  hanging  like 
the sword of Damocles over our national currency, the 
lek,  and  our  economy.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  call 
upon  the  countries  of  the  eurozone  to  take  into 
consideration  the  effects  of  the  crisis  on  our  economy 
and others that are closely linked to the euro. 

The  greatest  desire  and  fondest  dream  of  all 
Albanians  is  to  see  Albania  become  a  developed 
country.  I  know  that  the  road  ahead  of  us  is  not 
smooth; it may be bumpy at times, but it is also the one 
that will take us higher and higher. I am convinced that 
it is a righteous and a sure path of hope by which the 
dream of a fully developed Albania will come true. 

the  Government  of 
Albania  is  committed  to  sustainable  development. 
Developing  countries  and  emerging  markets  such  as 
that of Albania face countless difficulties, but they also 
have  the  advantage  of  learning  from  the  mistakes  of 
developed  countries  and  being  able  to  avoid  them. 
With  that  in  mind,  we  are  determined  to  turn Albania 
into  a  small  superpower  of  renewable  energy  in  the 
region.  With 
resources,  Albania 
resembles  a  small  Norway  on  the  Balkan  peninsula. 
My  Government  has  already  signed  with  the  private 
sector  a  concessional  contract  for  the  construction  of 
220 of the 450 hydropower stations that are to be built. 
Companies  from  all  over  Europe  and  the  rest  of  the 
world are already engaged in that process. 

Additionally,  major  natural  wind  platforms  exist 
throughout the country, and the Government has given 
and  is  giving  licenses  for  the  production  of  thousands 
of  megawatts  of  electricity  by  wind  parks. Albania  is 
also  one  of  the  sunniest  places  in  Europe,  and  the 
that  dream, 
To  achieve 
rich  water 
its 
in 
To 
combat 
change 
and 
climate 
incurred 
realizing 
Government  is  determined  to  exploit  solar  as  well  as 
geothermal energy. 

I  believe  that  in  addition  to  the  major  efforts 
necessary  to  achieve  an  international  legal  framework 
to  prevent  global  warming  and  lower  greenhouse-gas 
emissions,  we  must  speedily  reach  an  agreement 
stipulating  that  a  percentage  of  the  aid  that  generous 
donors  are  offering  to  support  this  cause  be  used  for 
the  purpose  of  supporting  private-sector  companies 
that  are  focused  on  renewable  energy  projects.  Such 
funds  could  be  used  to  cover  the  cost  of  the  loan 
interest 
renewable  energy 
projects. I am sure that they will increase manifold the 
production of renewable energy in the very near future. 

improve 
environmental  conditions,  forestation  is  also  very 
important. The United  Nations  Billion Tree  Campaign 
has  been  met  with  a  successful  response  by  many 
countries and deserves credit as a first important step. 
However, our potential is much greater. 

The  Government  of  Albania  has  started  an 
ambitious programme aimed at taking advantage of our 
country’s potential in terms of fruit trees. We intend to 
plant,  in  the  next  eight  years,  some  50  million  olive 
trees  and  around  200  million  nut  trees  of  different 
varieties. The  project,  which  started  two  years  ago,  is 
subsidized by public funds. I am pleased to inform the 
Assembly that this project is moving rapidly ahead and 
that it has given rise to a real and unprecedented tree-
planting  passion  on  the  part  of  my  fellow  citizens. 
Albania will welcome any and all help from the United 
Nations  and 
to  successfully 
complete this project. 

Albania  fully  supports  the  Open  Government 
Partnership  initiated  by  the  President  of  the  United 
States,  Barack  Obama,  and  the  President  of  Brazil, 
Dilma  Rousseff;  that  is  why  we  have  joined  the 
initiative.  Our  efforts  towards  an  open  Government 
have  as  a  primary  objective  the  project  entitled 
“Albania  in  the  digital  age”.  In  a  short  time,  we  have 
expanded  access  to  the  Internet  to  all  our  schools  and 
have  started  offering  free  Internet  service  to  every 
citizen in all post offices throughout the country. 

A  total  of  2.1  million  Albanians  have  availed 
themselves  of  this  opportunity  and  have  surfed  the 
Internet, many of them for the first time in their lives. 
This  has  helped 
the 
population  in Albania  using  the  Internet  from  a  mere 
its  Member  States 
the  percentage  of 
increase 
30 

11-51360 
and 
transparency 
in  participating  public  bids, 


4.8  per  cent  in  early  2006  to  60  per  cent  today  — 
roughly  two  thirds  of  the  population.  Free  Internet 
service will continue to be available in all post offices 
and  in  some  additional  offices  to  be  opened  for  that 
purpose. Moreover, the Government is fully committed 
to making super-broadband Internet available over the 
next  two  years  and  to  guaranteeing  one-stop-shopping 
services to citizens throughout the country. 

We  believe  that  the  digital  age  is  above  all  the 
age of transparency. Based on this belief, Albania two 
years ago became the first country in the world with a 
100  per  cent  electronic  procurement  system  certified 
by the United Nations. That system has led to a sixfold 
increase 
reducing 
procurement  costs  by  27  per  cent. Today Albania  is  a 
country 
featuring  e-tax,  e-customs,  e-university 
admissions,  and  e-business  registration  and  e-civil 
status  registry.  The  Government  intends  to  offer  all 
those services and others in a one-stop-shop context in 
the very near future. 

strengthen 
E-government 
democracy, and our law also guarantees free access for 
our  citizens 
to  all  acts,  decisions  and  public 
expenditures of the Government. In order to strengthen 
the  role  of  civil  society,  my  Government  has  for  the 
past  two  years  had  a  specific  budgetary  provision  in 
that  respect 
is  entirely  administered  by  an 
independent board of civil society. 

Albania has excellent relations with its immediate 
neighbours  and,  in  general,  with  the  countries  of  the 
region.  We  would  like  to  develop  and  consolidate 
further relations with the Republic of Serbia as well. I 
am  very  pleased  to  inform  the  Assembly  that  the 
Government  of  Kosovo  possesses  an  equally  strong 
will in the  area  of  good-neighbourly relations  and  has 
shown  assiduous  commitment  and  seriousness  in  the 
process  of  negotiations  in  Brussels.  The  International 
Court of Justice decided in July last year in The Hague 
that  Kosovo’s  declaration  of  independence  was  in  full 
compliance with international law.  

The Republic of Kosovo has been recognized by 
more than 80 States, and I take this opportunity to call 
upon  the  rest  of  the  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  to  recognize  the  independent  republic  of 
Kosovo, which has become, in fact, an important factor 
for peace, stability and cooperation in our region. I also 
call  upon  Serbia,  which  went  through  the  General 
Assembly to ask the opinion of the International Court 
that 
11-51360 

A/66/PV.22
in  Kosovo 
of Justice, to adapt its position in line with the decision 
of  the  Court,  thus  demonstrating  that  it  accepts  and 
respects  international  law  in  its  entirety  and  not  only 
those parts that serve its cause. 

In accordance with President Ahtisaari’s package, 
and in close cooperation with the European Union Rule 
of Law Mission in Kosovo (EULEX), the International 
Security  Force 
(KFOR)  and  other 
international  institutions  present  in  the  country,  the 
republic  of  Kosovo  has  put  in  place  and  implemented 
the  highest  standards  in  the  region  and  beyond  as 
regards the freedoms and rights of minorities. 

The  most  worrying  problems  for  the  Serbs  in 
Kosovo today are the tensions created and orchestrated 
for  nationalistic  purposes.  Serbian  cultural  heritage  in 
Kosovo is today more secure than ever. It is a precious 
cultural heritage not only  for the Serbs  in Kosovo but 
also for Albanians and all other citizens of Kosovo, as 
well  as  for  Serbia,  the  entire  region  and  the  whole  of 
Europe. I would like to reassure the representatives of 
the Member States that the only threat Serbs in Kosovo 
face is that of being exploited to serve the purposes of 
a bitter past that must not ever return. 

Meanwhile,  inter-ethnic  relations  in  all  areas 
where  Serbs  and  Albanians  live  together  in  the  same 
communities  are  very  good.  However,  the  parallel 
structures  funded  by  Belgrade  in  the  three  Serbian 
homogeneous communes in northern Mitrovica, where 
no other ethnic groups reside, have turned them into a 
safe  haven  for  organized  crime  and  smuggling  and 
trafficking of all sorts.  

The  Government  of  the  republic  of  Kosovo  is 
determined  to  implement  the  rule  of  law  in  those 
communes and engage in effective border and customs 
control, in full compliance with the agreement reached 
in Brussels and the Ahtisaari document. Those efforts, 
however,  have  met  strong  resistance  from  criminal 
groups  and  organized  gangs  that,  with  weapons  and 
other  means,  are  doing  all  in  their  power  to  block  the 
rule  of  law.  We  have  supported  and  will  continue  to 
support  the  Government  of  Kosovo,  EULEX  and 
KFOR in their efforts to strengthen law and order in all 
the  territory  of  the  republic  of  Kosovo  so  that  peace 
and stability will prevail.  

I also call on Serbia to do its best to remove the 
obstacles  to  the  flow  of  goods  across  its  border  with 
Kosovo,  and  to  respect  the  agreement  signed  this 
month  in  Brussels,  which  forbids  the  embargo  and 
31 

in 
those 
it  still  believes 
in  place 
that 
A/66/PV.22 

provides  for  freedom  of  export  and  import  for  both 
countries. We believe that respect for the actual borders 
in  the  Balkans  is  a  fundamental  condition  for  lasting 
peace  and  stability.  Belgrade’s  efforts  to  keep  parallel 
three 
structures  of  authority 
communes  demonstrate 
in 
reshaping borders in our region based on the failed and 
long-outdated idea of ethnically clean countries and the 
concept of Greater Serbia. 

The  Republic  of  Serbia,  in  accordance  with 
international  law,  has  arrested  the  butcher  of  the 
Balkans and, albeit too late, his lieutenants as well, and 
has  received  the  due  appreciation  of  the  international 
community  for  doing  so.  However,  I  invite  Serbia  to 
cooperate in the search for and return of the remains of 
1,500  men,  women,  children  and  elderly  who  were 
abducted  from  their  homes  and  massacred  in  the 
territory of Serbia only because they were Albanians. It 
is very important to cleanse one’s country of those who 
have committed crimes against humanity, but it is also 
important not to hide or cover over the graves of their 
victims.  

Here  yesterday,  President  Tadić  characterized  as 
true 
the  accusations  raised  by  Mr.  Dick  Marty 
regarding  the  alleged  traffic  in  organs  and  mass 
killings  committed  by  Albanians  in  the  territory  of 
Albania.  Regarding  that  report,  I  would  like  to  state 
here  the  stance  of  the  Albanian  Government.  Dick 
Marty’s  report  —  as  acknowledged  by  the  Chief 
Prosecutor  of  Serbia,  Vladimir  Vukčević,  who  has 
stated  that  his  own  report  is  fully  included  in  Marty’s 
report  —  is  in  fact  a  cut-and-paste  of  the  Vukčević’s 
report. Every person who reads that report sees that it 
raises  many  allegations  that  are  not  at  all  based  on 
facts  or  the  truth  but  rather  motivated  by  sinister 
intention.  

The  Dick  Marty  report  —  or  rather  let  us  call  it 
the  Dick  Marty/Vukčević  report  —  does  not  produce 
even  a  single  fact.  I  must  clarify  that  in  fact  it 
synthesizes  Carla  Del  Ponte’s  memoir,  which  seem  to 
have  derived  from  the  same  unique  source.  In  the 
thousands of pages of transcripts of the interrogation of 
Slobodan  Milošević  and  his  accusations  against 
Albanians, there is not a single word of accusation on 
his  part  about  organ  trafficking  or  mass  graves  in  my 
country. The purpose of the report is to divert attention 
from the decision of the International Court of Justice 
in favour of the independence of Kosovo. 
all 
to  a 
Despite 
the  fact 
thorough 
the  door 

Nevertheless,  the  Government  of  Albania  has 
officially asked its delegation in the Council of Europe 
to  vote  to  endorse  the  report  for  the  sole  purpose  of 
opening 
international 
investigation.  My  Government  sent  an  invitation  to 
EULEX,  and  we  welcome 
the  EULEX 
accepted it. I assure everyone here that my country will 
fully cooperate fully with EULEX and its task force so 
that  the  truth  about  such  inventions  will  be  made 
known.  When  I  read  them  for  the  first  time  in  Carla 
Del  Ponte’s  memoir,  they  reminded  me  of  Agatha 
Christie.  I  want  the  EULEX  team  to  come  and  clarify 
everything about those fictions. 

region  has  made 
this,  our 
extraordinary  progress,  and  efforts  to  cooperate  in 
building  a  common  future  in  the  European  Union  are 
prevailing every day. My country is doing its best and 
is  investing  heavily  in  infrastructure  to  create  new 
links, new roads and new lines of communication with 
all  our  neighbours.  I  believe  that  the  time  has  come 
when Albanians and Serbs will try to start archiving the 
past  and  looking  for  a  common  future  in  the  best 
interests of their nations.  
From  this  rostrum,  President  Abbas  made  his 

request 
the  General  Assembly  for  Palestine’s 
membership  of  the  United  Nations  as  an  independent 
State. While my Government fully supports the idea of 
an  independent  Palestine,  I  believe  that  unilateral 
action  will  not  be  helpful.  That  is  why  I  call  on  our 
Palestinian  friends  to  support  the  statement  made 
yesterday by the Quartet, in which it drew a clear road 
map for action to address this fundamental question of 
our time. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Albania  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr. Sali Berisha, Prime Minister of the Republic 
of Albania, was escorted from the rostrum. 
to 



  Address by Mr. Nikola Gruevski, Prime 
Minister of the former Yugoslav Republic 
of Macedonia 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister  of 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia. 
the 
32 

11-51360 



session. 
in  Macedonian;  English 
Mr.  Nikola  Gruevski,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  was 
escorted to the rostrum. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 

great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Nikola 
Gruevski,  Prime  Minister  of  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia, and inviting him to address the 
General Assembly. 
Mr.  Gruevski  (former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 

Macedonia)  (spoke 
text 
provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  my  special  honour 
and  privilege  to  address  this  important  forum  and  to 
share with the Assembly the positions of the Republic 
of  Macedonia  regarding  current  issues  on  the  United 
Nations agenda. 

First,  allow  me  to  congratulate  His  Excellency 
Ambassador  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  on  his 
election  to  the  prestigious  position  of  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session,  and  to 
congratulate the previous President, Mr. Joseph Deiss, 
on  his  remarkably  successful  presidency  at  the  sixty-
fifth 
to 
congratulate  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  on  his 
reappointment, confident that he will continue to work 
devotedly to realize the noble objectives of the United 
Nations. 
The  Republic  of  Macedonia  recently  celebrated 

the twentieth anniversary of its independence. We have 
faced  many  challenges  and  temptations,  including 
achieving  a  peaceful  declaration  of  independence,  the 
introduction of a new political system with due respect 
for democratic values and human rights and freedoms, 
transforming  our  economic  system  and  then  dealing 
with many social problems, establishing ourselves as a 
responsible  and  active  member  of  the  international 
community,  and  shouldering  the  additional  burden  of 
various requirements and conditions. 

Throughout this time, the Republic of Macedonia 
has  had  the  United  Nations  as  a  partner.  Based  on 
lessons  learned  over  the  past  20  years,  my  country  is 
particularly conscious of the value of mediation in the 
peaceful  settlement  of  conflicts.  Macedonia  welcomes 
the  timely  and  wise  decision  to  make  the  role  of 
mediation  in  the  settlement  of  disputes  by  peaceful 
means the focus of this year’s debate.  

The  majority  of  conflicts  do  not  happen 
overnight;  they  are  predictable  and  offer  realistic 
this  opportunity 
I  also 
take 
A/66/PV.22
opportunities for effective diplomatic efforts to prevent 
them.  Such  cases  offer  the  chance  of  incurring  the 
lowest  cost  in  every  way.  While  we  affirm  the 
sovereignty of States, we must take into consideration 
that  there  are  moments  when  a  State  or  States  need 
mediation  services,  with  impartiality  and  willingness 
on the part of the mediators to understand the thrust of 
the  issues  and  to  help  all  parties  concerned  resolve 
their  problems 
in  a  mutually  acceptable  and 
satisfactory  manner  before  they  can  escalate  in  an 
unwanted direction. 

The  Millennium  Development  Goals  remain  the 
parameters we need to evaluate our success. Regardless 
of  the  serious  consequences  of  the  global  economic 
crisis,  our  commitment  to  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  must  not  weaken.  The  greatest 
crises  occur  as  a  result  of  a  lack  of  vision  and 
dedication. Turning a blind eye to problems or finding 
excuses to justify a lack of action to achieve our goals 
will  only  increase  the  price  to  be  paid  in  future;  and 
that  will  not  be  calculated  merely  in  dollars  or  euros, 
but  also  in  the  most  valuable  and  priceless  asset: 
human lives. 

One  challenge  that  requires  an  immediate  and 
long-term solution is the issue of climate change. It is 
alarming  that,  precisely  as  a  result  of  climate  change 
caused  by  human  activity,  entire  nations  and  States 
face  uncertainty  on  a  daily  basis.  Although 
the 
Republic  of  Macedonia  has  experienced  the  adverse 
effects  of  climate  change  in  a  less  dramatic  way,  it 
wishes  to  express  its  solidarity  with  the  countries  that 
are most exposed to the phenomenon. 

In  recent  times,  we  have  witnessed  numerous 
conflicts  and  the  disturbance  of  peace  and  security  in 
various 
the  world.  The  democratic 
awakening,  especially  the  so-called  Arab  Spring,  has 
shown  us  once  more 
that  democracy  cannot  be 
imposed;  it  can  be  derived  only  from  the  people’s 
rejection  of  dictatorships  and  regimes  that  are  in 
conflict with the popular interest, and from respect for 
basic human rights, universal freedoms and the rule of 
law.  

remain  a  global 
challenge.  The  problem  of  the  abuse  of  programmes 
intended for the peaceful use of nuclear energy has not 
yet been solved. Terrorism and extreme hunger caused 
by conflicts are only two of the numerous challenges to 
which it is imperative that we find immediate solutions 
frozen  conflicts 
regions  of 
Old  and 
11-51360 

33 

in  national  policy  and,  of  course, 
A/66/PV.22 

aimed at improving security at the global and regional 
levels. 

Human beings must be the focus of our attention, 
especially 
in 
multilateral  actions.  There  is  no  greater  value  than 
human  life,  human  dignity  and  the  right  to  individual 
development,  prosperity  and  happiness.  Humankind 
requires  action  that  transforms  our  declarations  and 
good intentions into deeds. When we ask for that moral 
imperative from the United Nations, we are practicing 
what  we  preach.  The  Republic  of  Macedonia  will 
continue to be an active participant in the realization of 
our common objectives. 

There are many words I could use to describe my 
country, and each and every one would fit perfectly in 
its own manner. But to begin with, I choose only one, 
and I am convinced that it describes the essence of my 
country and my people and accurately illustrates all the 
efforts  and  strength  we  have  summoned  in  order  to 
overcome  the  challenges  of  our  recent  history.  It 
clearly  describes  the  patience  with  which  we  have 
faced  every  obstacle  imposed  on  us,  and  which  we 
have  overcome  and  continue  to  overcome,  at  the 
economic  and  institutional  level,  simply  by  asserting 
our own identity and self-recognition. These obstacles 
have  been  imposed  not  because  of  anything  we  have 
done,  but  simply  because  of  who  we  are  and  the  fact 
that we exist. That word is “responsibility”. 

Macedonia  has  acted  responsibly.  Our  country’s 
independence was won through a history that cannot be 
called merciful. It rests on the great sacrifice of many 
lives  and  broken  dreams. Yet  our  past  is  not  the  only 
reason  why  we  act  responsibly.  We  Macedonians 
believe that we have a European future and that we can 
leave  a  great  legacy  for  generations  to  come.  That  is 
precisely  why  today  we  in  Macedonia  are  trying  to 
create  a  broad  base  of  support  and  to  unify  all  of  our 
strength  and  potential  around 
idea  of 
Macedonia  as  a  regional  leader  in  economic  reform, 
education,  investment,  technology  and  innovation;  in 
protection of the environment and of human rights and 
freedoms; and in all areas of modern life. Knowing the 
great awareness and responsibility of my people — and 
citing the  example of country’s  response to the global 
economic  crisis,  when  our  solidarity  was  not  shaken 
and we came through it all without major problems — 
I am convinced that our unity will succeed. 
the  bold 
side, 
throughout 
and 
to  maintain  a 

When  speaking  of  Macedonia,  however,  we 
cannot fail to mention another great characteristic that 
has  remained  with  us  over  thousands  of  years. As  our 
inheritance  from  ancient  times,  this  characteristic  has 
helped  us  to  retain  our  cosmopolitanism  —  the  ideal 
functional 
that  has  enabled  us 
multiculturalism.  Side  by 
the 
centuries, different cultures, religions and nations have 
coexisted in my country. While many Europeans deem 
that  astonishing  and  unique,  for  us  Macedonians  that 
has  been  the  situation  for  centuries.  We  aim  for 
incorporation  into  the  dominant  culture,  without  any 
assimilation  or  disintegration.  Unlike  many  others 
who, afraid for their own national myth, try to suppress 
differences,  we  are  proud  of  them  and  consider  them 
our treasure. 

Our  system  is  not  perfect,  and  we  have  many 
issues to resolve. Macedonia is on the verge of a great 
transformation,  which  will  not  happen  overnight.  We, 
like  every  other  nation  in  the  world,  have  the  right  to 
an identity and to unite around our own national myth. 
In  our  myth,  there  is  a  place  for  Macedonians, 
Albanians,  Turks,  Roma,  Serbs,  Vlachs,  Bosniaks  and 
others. There is a place for all who accept the virtues of 
non-violence, 
cultural 
competitiveness. Chauvinism has never been dominant 
among  our  people.  The  constitutional  amendments  of 
1993 and the change in our flag showed our goodwill, 
openness  and  cooperativeness.  However,  our  sense  of 
responsibility  and  our  maturity  should  not  be 
considered as weaknesses, nor should they be a reason 
for  continuous  abuse  from  anyone,  because  we  have 
dignity  and  pride.  We  know  who  we  are  and  how  we 
will live. We are Macedonians, we speak Macedonian, 
and our country’s name is the Republic of Macedonia. 

As Prime Minister of the Republic of Macedonia, 
I would be remiss if I were to neglect the issue of our 
name  and 
identity  and  our  southern  neighbour’s 
objection  to  both.  I  mention  this  not  only  because  of 
my  position  and  obligation  to  the  people  of  the 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  but  also  because  it  relates  in 
many  ways  directly  to  the  issue  of  the  peaceful 
resolution of conflict and the role that mediation plays.  

We do not like being in the position of having our 
name  and  identity  opposed  by  one  country,  and  we 
certainly  did  not  ask  for  it.  But  reality  is  often  cold, 
hard and brutal. The fact is that our southern neighbour 
objects to both our name and identity; its objection has 
become  our  problem,  and  a  dispute  has  arisen  that  is 
coexistence 
justice, 
34 

11-51360 


unique  in  the  world.  It  is  imposed  on  the  basis  of  the 
need of one country, our neighbour, to monopolize two 
names,  and  its  strategic  determination  that  we  should 
not exist as we feel ourselves to be.  
Imagine the state that my citizens find themselves 

their  development  and 
in  —  blackmailed,  with 
prospects 
jeopardized,  blocked  by  our  southern 
neighbour  from  joining  euro-Atlantic  institutions,  just 
because  of  what  we  are  and  what  we  feel  like.  I 
personally,  and  literally  all  of  the  citizens  of  my 
country,  cannot  believe  that  we  have  been  put  in  a 
situation  where  we  have  to  resolve  a  dispute  that  was 
artificially  created  and  absurd.  I  believe  that  it  is  also 
utterly  incomprehensible  to  all  present.  I  would  ask 
participants  in  this  meeting  to  imagine,  just  for  a 
moment,  that  they  are  in  our  shoes,  to  consider  how 
they  would  feel  if  someone  demanded  they  not  be 
French,  German,  British, American,  Russian,  Chinese, 
Nigerian,  Japanese, Argentine,  Uruguayan  or  Kenyan, 
for instance. That is the only thing I ask, the only thing 
I plead for. I ask for support to end this, to allow us to 
be what we are. We hurt no one and inflict damage on 
no  one. We  have  understanding,  tolerance  and  respect 
for  our  neighbours  and  friends  and  for  everyone.  We 
have  respect  for  the  neighbour  with  which  we  are 
having  this  dispute  and  an  understanding  of  its  fears. 
We have no pretensions, nor do we have any intention 
of monopolizing the name Macedonia. 

Please  help  us  to  be  proud  and  dignified  and  to 
avoid  a  solution  that  would  break  us.  We  seek  a 
solution  that  will  not  harm  our  spirit  and  a  name  that 
will 
and 
desire 
determination 
community, 
individuality  and  identity  as  well  as  our  sense  of 
belonging  to  the  world  —  this  world  that  we  are 
building, whose virtues we are establishing and whose 
future we are fighting for. Macedonians are a peaceful 
people and are working, with mediation, to resolve the 
dispute with our neighbour in a peaceful manner. 
In  a  speech  to  the  Parliament  of  the  Republic  of 

Macedonia  on  31  August  2001,  our  late  President, 
Boris Trajkovski, said: 

commitment, 
coexistence, 
recognize 
our 
for 
“We 
the 
that 
demand 

international 
community  recognize  us  by  our  name  —  the 
Republic of Macedonia — and not by a fictional 
derivative.  It 
the  world 
recognizes us by what we call ourselves, just like 
any  other  country  and  its  citizens.  Otherwise, 
is  high 
time 
that 
A/66/PV.22
in 
this  very  body.  Nor  can  we 
how  do  you  expect  us  to  believe  in  your  values, 
principles  and  intentions  if  you  deny  our  basic 
right, the right to identity?” 

Fortunately, 131 countries around the world have 
made  a  choice  to  recognize  us  by  what  we  call 
ourselves — the Republic of Macedonia — and for that 
we  thank  them.  We  thank  them  for  their  principled 
position and consistency in the values of protection of 
the  rights  and  principles  established  by  the  United 
Nations itself. Unfortunately, the rules of the world are 
such  that  we  cannot  be  called  by  what  we  call 
ourselves 
join 
organizations  we  have  worked  hard 
to  become 
members  of,  and,  in  the  case  of  NATO  and  the 
European  Union,  have  earned  a  right  to  be  a  part  of. 
This,  frankly,  is  wrong. There  is  no  other  word  for  it. 
What others choose to do about it — their behaviour — 
is entirely up to them. 

It is a great honour and great privilege to address 
this body. All of us are leaders of our people and all of 
us  represent  them  to  the  best  of  our  abilities.  But  we 
must recommit ourselves as leaders to our own peoples 
first, and to the peoples of this world second. If we do 
that, we can survive, we can succeed and we can build 
a  better  world  for  ourselves,  our  children,  our 
grandchildren  and  for  future  generations,  which, 
ultimately is what each and every one of us wants. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Nikola  Gruevski,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  was 
escorted from the rostrum.  
 

  Address by Mr. Winston Baldwin Spencer, 
Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of Antigua and Barbuda 
 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Antigua 
and Barbuda. 

Mr. Winston Baldwin Spencer, Prime Minister and 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency 

great  pleasure 
11-51360 

35 

I  would  be  somewhat  remiss 
A/66/PV.22 

Mr. Winston  Baldwin  Spencer,  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  for  Foreign Affairs  of Antigua  and  Barbuda, 
and inviting him to address the Assembly.  
 Mr.  Spencer  (Antigua  and  Barbuda):  Let  me  at 
the  outset  commend  Mr. Al-Nasser  on  his  unanimous 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-sixth  session.  I  hereby  pledge 
to  him  my 
delegation’s full support for his efforts to successfully 
move forward the agenda of this session. I wish also to 
commend his predecessor, Mr. Joseph Deiss, President 
of  the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session,  for 
his stewardship. 

if  I  did  not 
commend  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his 
leadership of our treasured Organization. I am pleased 
to lend my voice to those of other Heads of State and 
Government  who  have  commended  him  on  his 
reappointment  for  a  second  five-year  term  beginning 
1 January  2012  and  to  wish  him  every  success  in  his 
bold  quest  to  develop  an  Organization  that  is  both 
effective and efficient and can bring about meaningful 
change in the complex world in which we live. 
Mr.  Al-Nasser’s  choice  of  the  theme  for  the 

general  debate,  namely,  “The  role  of  mediation  in  the 
settlement  of  disputes  by  peaceful  means”,  could  not 
have been more timely or appropriate.  Mediation 
is 
one of the cornerstones of the Organization. While it is 
true  that  mediation  should  not  be  the  only  tool 
available  to  the  international  community  to  mitigate 
conflicts,  there  is  nevertheless  a  growing  interest  in 
mediation and its use as a promising and cost-effective 
tool  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  conflict 
prevention and resolution. 

In addition, we, as a community of nations, have 
on  many  occasions  recognized  the  useful  role  that 
mediation  can  play 
in  preventing  disputes  from 
escalating  into  conflicts  and  conflicts  from  escalating 
further,  as  well  as  in  advancing  the  resolution  of 
conflicts  and  thus  preventing  and  reducing  human 
suffering  and  creating  conditions  conducive  to  lasting 
peace and sustainable development, and in this regard, 
recognizing  that  peace  and  development  are  mutually 
reinforcing. 

In  the  general  debate  of  the  sixty-fifth  session,  I 
as well as others called for lasting peace in the Middle 
East  (see  A/65/PV.20).  I  also 
issued  a  call  for 
implementation of the two-State solution, which would 
have  Israel  and  Palestine  living  side  by  side  in  peace 
full  membership 
and  security.  Neither  of  these  notions  is  new;  sadly, 
neither  is  anywhere  close  to  realization,  Given  the 
current state of affairs, it should come as no surprise to 
anyone  that  the  Palestinian  people  would  seek  a 
different  option  — 
in  our 
Organization  or,  failing  that,  a  vote  by  the  General 
Assembly  that  would  elevate  the  status  of  Palestine 
from  non-voting  observer  entity  to  Observer  State,  a 
status equal to that of the Holy See. 

As  we  have  said  in  previous  debates,  we  remain 
fully  supportive  of  the  aspirations  of  the  Palestinian 
people  and  of  the  idea  of  a  two-State  solution,  which 
would allow the Palestinian people the right to govern 
themselves and reach their potential in a sovereign and 
contiguous State.  It was  against this backdrop that we 
decided  to  join  with  others  that  have  already  done  so 
and  grant  recognition  to  the  State  of  Palestine. As  we 
did then and do now, we believe that recognition of the 
State  of  Palestine  will  contribute  to  the  quest  for  a 
negotiated  solution  to  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict 
and to the creation of lasting peace and stability in the 
region, and ultimately result in a viable Palestine and a 
secure  Israel,  based  on  the  1967  lines,  with  mutually 
agreed swaps to ensure that secure, recognized borders 
exist for both sides. 

Many  of  today’s  conflicts  are  fuelled  by  the 
illegal  trade  in  small  arms  and  light  weapons.  Those 
small  weapons  of  mass  destruction  have  had  a 
devastating impact on the countries of our region over 
the  past  decade,  and  have  been  directly  implicated  in 
the associated rise in crime and violence involving the 
use  of  firearms.  Needless  to  say,  those  weapons  have 
had a significant adverse impact on security and socio-
economic and human development in our countries. 

In  their  2007  annual  reports,  both  the  United 
Nations  Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime  and  the  World 
Bank  identified  our  region  as  having  higher  murder 
rates  than  any  other  region  in  the  world.  They  also 
stated that small arms and light weapons were used in 
more  than  70  per  cent  of  those  murders.  We  never 
sought  that  dubious  designation,  which  was  anything 
but welcome. 

This  is  why,  at  our  most  recent  summit  in  July 
2011,  my  fellow  Heads  of  State  of  the  Caribbean 
Community adopted a Declaration on Small Arms and 
Light Weapons in which, inter alia, we agreed  

“to  accord  the  highest  national  and  regional 
priority  to  matters  related  to  combating  and 
36 

11-51360 


eradicating the illicit trade in small arms and light 
weapons  and 
[and]  “to 
intensify  and  sustain  engagement  in  the  United 
Nations  effort  for  the  conclusion  of  a  legally 
binding Arms Trade Treaty”. 
their  ammunition” 
to 
crisis 
threaten 
continues 
restructuring  and 
I call on all States Members of our Organization to join 
our region in this worthy endeavour.  

The very existence of many developing countries 
as  viable  States  is  at  stake.  The  world  financial  and 
economic 
debt 
sustainability in our countries through its impact on the 
real economy and the increase in borrowing we had to 
undertake in  order to mitigate the negative impacts  of 
the crisis. 
The  recent  gyrations  in  the  major  stock  markets 

of  the  world  do  not  inspire  hope  for  lasting  global 
economic  recovery  any  time  soon.  Now  more  than 
ever, if we are to overcome the current crisis we need a 
new  mechanism 
resolving 
sovereign  debt  that  takes  into  account  the  multiple 
dimensions of debt sustainability.  

This  seemingly  unending  economic  crisis  has 
affected our countries not only in economic terms, but 
also  through  the  presence  of  barriers  to  trade,  as  well 
as  the  financing  embedded  in  some  of  the  anti-crisis 
measures  adopted  by  some  developed  countries.  More 
importantly, 
impacted  our  social 
development,  which  in  turn  has  led  and  continues  to 
lead to a major loss of jobs and difficulties in financing 
social  programmes 
the 
provision of basic amenities. All those factors threaten 
internationally  agreed 
our  efforts 
development 
goals, 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

While  my  country  has  made  good  progress  with 
the  United  States  on  our  online  gaming  dispute,  we 
urge the United States to remain committed to reaching 
a mutually agreed outcome that will bring value to our 
economy and is implementable by the United States. 

With so much at stake, we will soldier on in our 
quest  to  seek  market  access  openings  in  key  sectors 
and  other  innovative  incentives  that  could  include  but 
would not be limited to financial and technical support, 
forensics, equipment and training for dealing with drug 
trafficking  and  for  the  creation  of  decent  jobs  for  the 
people of Antigua and Barbuda. 
that  address  poverty  or 
the  crisis  has 
to  attain 
including 
for 
the 
A/66/PV.22
the  World  Health  Assembly  endorsed 

Mine is not the only country in the Caribbean that 
has  experienced  trade-related  difficulties  with  the 
United  States.  A  far  more  pernicious  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  blockade  has  been  imposed 
by the United States of America on Cuba, and although 
the  overwhelming  majority  of  membership  of  the 
United Nations has repeatedly called for that blockade 
to  be  lifted,  it  continues  unabated.  As  a  country 
committed  to  the  norms  of  the  multilateral  trading 
system and the freedom of trade and navigation, and as 
a  nation  that  rejects  the  extraterritorial  application  of 
another  country’s  national  law,  we  call  on  the  United 
States  to  immediately  and  unconditionally  lift  its 
economic blockade against the people of Cuba. 
On  19  September,  almost  11  years  to  the  day 

the 
since 
landmark  Global  Strategy  for  the  Prevention  and 
Control  of  Non-communicable  Diseases  to  reduce  the 
toll  of  premature  deaths  due  to  non-communicable 
diseases  (NCDs),  the  General  Assembly  adopted  a 
Political  Declaration  (resolution  66/2)  that,  among 
other  things,  calls  for  the  launch  of  a  global  NCD 
campaign. 

While 
the 
Declaration,  we  are  nevertheless  disappointed  that 
some  of  our  original  expectations,  including  a  clear 
goal  for  the  launching  of  the  global  NCD  campaign 
with  a  corresponding  road  map,  may  not  have  been 
fully  developed.  However,  we  believe 
if 
the  Declaration  will 
rigorously 
contribute 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  Let  it  be  known  that  we  will  do 
our  utmost  to  ensure  that  the  momentum  generated  at 
that meeting is not lost. 

Two  days  ago,  we  held  a  one  day  High-level 
Meeting  to  commemorate  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the 
adoption of the Durban Declaration and Programme of 
Action  —  the  internationally  recognized  blueprint  for 
action to fight racism that was adopted by consensus at 
the  2001  World  Conference  against  Racism,  Racial 
Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and  Related  Intolerance, 
held  in  Durban,  South  Africa.  To  this  day,  the 
Declaration  remains  an  innovative  and  action-oriented 
agenda  to  combat  all  forms  of  racism  and  racial 
discrimination. 

This  tenth  anniversary  is  a  chance  to  strengthen 
political  commitment  to  fighting  racism  and  racial 
discrimination.  It  is  also  an  opportune  time  to  revisit 
implemented, 
to 
the  attainment  of 
is  much 
lauded 
to  be 
there 
that, 
in 
11-51360 

37 

severely 
A/66/PV.22 

the issue of reparations for slavery, which is central to 
any  discussion  about  racism,  colonialism  and  poverty. 
Antigua and Barbuda has long argued that the legacy of 
slavery, segregation and racial violence against peoples 
of  African  descent  has 
impaired  our 
advancement  as  nations,  communities  and  individuals 
across the economic, social and political spectrums. In 
obtaining redress for the injustices suffered by African 
slaves  and  their  descendants,  today’s  Caribbean  and 
African  peoples  would  advance  immeasurably  the 
process of genuine healing. 

Those  who  choose  to  differ  have  argued  that, 
unlike victims of the Holocaust or those who have been 
interned  during  wars  and  have  subsequently  received 
remunerations, neither the victims nor the perpetrators 
of slavery are alive today, and that it is unfair to hold 
the  descendants  of  slave-owners  responsible  for  the 
actions of their ancestors. 

On  this  we  strongly  disagree.  However,  no  one 
should  disagree  that  racism  and  other  legacies  of 
slavery continue to shape the lives of people of African 
descent.  Thus,  reparations  must  be  directed  towards 
repairing  the  damage  inflicted  by  slavery  and  racism. 
That is why we call on former slave States to begin the 
reconciliation  process  by  issuing  formal  apologies  for 
the crimes committed by those nations or their citizens 
over  the  400  years  of  the African  slave  trade. To  help 
counter  the  lingering  damage  inflicted  on  generations 
of  peoples  of African  descent  by  generations  of  slave 
trading and colonialism, we call on those very States to 
back  up  their  apologies  with  new  commitments  to  the 
economic  development  of 
that  have 
suffered from that human tragedy. 

The  United  Nations  has  declared  2011  to  be  the 
International  Year  for  People  of  African  Descent. 
Throughout  the  year,  nations  and  communities  of  the 
African  diaspora  have  undertaken  a  number  of 
initiatives  aimed  at 
full 
enjoyment  of  economic,  cultural,  social,  civil  and 
political  rights;  participation  and  integration  in  all 
political,  economic,  social  and  cultural  aspects  of 
society;  the  promotion  of  a  greater  knowledge  of  and 
respect  for  their  diverse  heritage  and  culture,  with 
pronounced  emphasis  on  encouraging  multilateralism 
and  development  approaches;  and  the  creation  of  a 
global Afro-centric movement. 

The  time  has  come  for  peoples  of  the  African 
diaspora  to  begin  helping  themselves.  A  key  part  of 
realization  of 
the  nations 
the 
the 
on 
the 
Conference 
if  we  are 
to  population  dynamics 
that process is the first African Diaspora Summit, to be 
held in South Africa in mid-2012. The Summit and its 
preparatory  process  will  provide  a  platform  for  the 
African  diaspora  to  put  in  place  economic  policies 
aimed  at  ensuring  sustained  economic  cooperation 
among  public  and  private  stakeholders,  so  as  to 
promote  development,  entrepreneurship  and  business 
opportunities in diasporan regions. 

By 31 October, our planet will reach a milestone 
of sorts. Somewhere on the Earth’s surface, the planet’s 
7-billionth  inhabitant  will  be  born.  Seven  billion 
people!  If  nothing  else,  that  milestone  will  serve  to 
reaffirm  our  determination  as 
international 
community  to  implement  sound  development  policies 
and  promote  the  inherent  right  and  dignity  of  each 
person.  Coming  amid  the  preparations  for  the  2012 
United  Nations 
Sustainable 
Development  in  Rio  de  Janeiro,  a  world  of  7  billion 
inhabitants  reminds  us  of  the  critical  need  to  pay 
attention 
to 
understand the needs of our people, proactively plan to 
avoid  development  pitfalls,  and  develop  forward-
looking policies that promote the health and dignity of 
every  human  being  on  Earth,  while  at  the  same  time 
safeguarding the planet we call our home. 

By making the necessary investments to develop 
quality human capital, with equally strong measures to 
promote  gender  equality  with  the  active  promotion  of 
women  and  youth  participation  in  all  spheres  of  life, 
we will create the enabling conditions for transforming 
the  economies  of  developing  countries  in  order  to 
eradicate  poverty  and  achieve 
internationally 
agreed  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Policies 
responsive  to  the  needs  of  our  population  not  only 
contribute  to  dynamic,  growing  economies  but  are  a 
prerequisite for addressing the huge challenges related 
to access to food, energy, water and sanitation, climate 
change, fast-paced urbanization and migration. It is not 
enough to merely respond to anticipated challenges; we 
must take innovative and proactive approaches to seize 
the  opportunities  presented  by  a  world  of  7  billion 
people. 

the  countries  of  Latin  American  and 
As 
Caribbean region reflect on and respond to those global 
challenges, we have determined that our own destinies 
are  interwoven  and  that,  as  developing  countries,  we 
must  unite  and  coordinate  our  efforts  in  a  systematic, 
structured and deliberative way. We have done just that 
the 
38 

11-51360 
Within  my  own  subregion, 


with the creation of the Community of Latin American 
and Caribbean States. 
Antigua  and  Barbuda  fully  endorses  and  supports  the 
objectives and ideals of the Community and wishes to 
acknowledge  the  efforts  of  countries  such  as  Mexico, 
Venezuela,  Brazil,  Cuba  and  our  sister  CARICOM 
member States for bringing the organization into being. 

As  we  prepare  for  an  important  Summit  in 
Caracas, Venezuela, in December, we intend to lay the 
foundation  of  a  dynamic,  responsive  and  meaningful 
community of nations that share a common history and 
that have a great deal to gain in our coming together in 
this  way  to  reshape  the  agenda,  thereby  creating  a 
greater balance in the pursuit of happiness, prosperity, 
peace and democracy in our hemisphere. 

the  eight  small 
developing countries that make up the Organization of 
Eastern  Caribbean  States  (OECS)  have  a  common 
currency union, the Eastern Caribbean Currency Union 
(ECCU).  We  have  been  adversely  affected  by  the 
global  financial  and  economic  crisis  and  we  are  faced 
with  a  protracted  recovery.  The  impact  of  the  global 
crisis  was  manifested  in  steep  declines  in  our  tourist 
arrivals  and  expenditures,  direct  foreign  investment 
and  remittances.  Our  real  gross  domestic  product 
(GDP) fell by 5.7 per cent in 2009 and is estimated to 
have  declined  by  a  further  2.2  per  cent  in  2010, 
influenced by declines in value  added in construction, 
manufacturing,  agriculture,  wholesale  and 
retail, 
transport  and  financial  intermediation.  The  crisis  has 
also had a marked impact on our fiscal positions, with 
an accompanying increase in public-sector debt. 

Despite those challenges, there is a positive side. 
Our  countries  have  strong  liberal  democratic  systems 
and  the  rule  of  law  is  upheld.  We  also  have  a  stable 
currency  that  has  been  pegged  to  the  United  States 
dollar  at  a  rate  of  2.7  Eastern  Caribbean  dollars  to 
$1 since  1976.  That  has  been 
for 
comparatively  low  inflation  and  confidence  in  the 
monetary  system.  In  response  to  the  global  and 
regional  economic  and 
financial  crises,  ECCU 
members  have  crafted  a  very  strong  response  to  those 
challenges.  We  have  upgraded  our  current  economic 
integration  arrangements  to  an  economic  union  status 
and  a  new  treaty  to  that  effect,  the  revised  Treaty  of 
Basseterre establishing an OECS Economic Union, was 
ratified in January 2011. 
responsible 
A/66/PV.22
and 
to 
to  HIV 

We  have  put  in  place  a  number  of  institutional 
arrangements, which have served us well in addressing 
the  effects  of  the  crisis  over  the  past  two  years.  We 
adopted  the  ECCU  Eight  Point  Stabilisation  and 
Growth  Programme  in  2009,  aimed  at  stabilizing  and 
transforming  the  ECCU  economies.  As  part  of  the 
financial  programming,  we  have  set  fiscal  targets, 
which  have  been  approved  by  the  Monetary  Council 
and  published.  The  targets  are  intended  to  move  our 
countries  on  a  path  towards  achieving  a  debt-to-GDP 
ratio of 60 per cent by 2020. 

My  region  remains  deeply  concerned  that  AIDS 
has  claimed  30  million  lives  and  orphaned  16  million 
children  since  it  was  first  discovered  in  1981.  My 
region  remains  committed  to  intensifying  national 
efforts  to  create  enabling  legal,  social  and  policy 
frameworks  to  eliminate  stigma,  discrimination  and 
promote 
to  HIV 
violence 
related 
non-discriminatory 
access 
prevention, 
treatment, care and support. 

As  a  small  developing  nation,  we  can  easily 
identify with the President’s call for enhancing South-
South  and  triangular  cooperation.  This,  after  all,  was 
perhaps  his  signature  issue  during  his  tenure  as 
the  Committee  on  South-South 
Chairman  of 
Cooperation.  His  choice  of 
improving  disaster 
prevention  and  response  also  resonates  with  us.  The 
increase  in  the  frequency  and  intensity  of  natural  and 
man-made  disasters  and  the  devastation  wrought  by 
them on vulnerable countries such as my own leave us 
with  no  choice  but  to  develop  ways  to  build  our 
capacities  so  that  we  are  better  prepared  to  withstand 
these disasters. 

In addition to his main theme for this session, we 
also  support  the  President’s  call  to  focus  on  United 
Nations  reform  and  revitalization  so  as  to  ensure  that 
our  Organization  remains  relevant,  efficient  and 
effective  and  is  able  to  adapt  to  meeting  the  ever-
changing global challenges. 

His fourth  focal  area of sustainable development 
and global prosperity is perhaps the one with the most 
scope  for  collective  action.  The  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  in  June  2012 
will  certainly  provide  a  forum  for  the  international 
community 
to 
sustainable  development,  the  eradication  of  poverty 
and  achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  by 
ensuring  the  balance  among  the  economic,  social  and 
to,  among  other 
things,  recommit 
11-51360 

39 
political, 
economic 
and 

A/66/PV.22 

environmental  aspects  of  sustainable  development, 
with the human being at the centre of our efforts. 
   We  can  no  longer  ask  whether  we  can,  but  we 
need  to  give  an  account  of  exactly  how  we  will  meet 
the  enormous  political,  economic,  humanitarian  and 
environmental  challenges  our  planet  faces. The  global 
economic  crisis  continues  to  shake  the  pillars  of  our 
economic  system:  banks,  businesses,  Governments, 
private  sectors  and  even  our  own  families.  Now  more 
than  ever,  we  need  a  more  efficient,  effective  and 
focused  United  Nations  that  is  both  transparent  and 
accountable to help us address the  extraordinary array 
of geopolitical and humanitarian challenges: famine in 
Somalia,  the  continued  crisis  in  Haiti,  the  aftershocks 
of the Arab Spring, ongoing conflicts in some countries 
and  difficult  transitions  in  others,  in  addition  to  the 
deeper 
environmental 
transformations that are reshaping our world. 

In  an  increasingly  uncertain  world,  the  world’s 
people are looking to us here, in this great Hall of the 
United Nations, for answers. We are their best hope for 
building  a  safe,  secure  and  just  world.  We  cannot 
afford to disappoint. We know that rescuing the planet 
will require us to invest in people, particularly women 
and  youth.  It  will  require  us  to  re-emphasize  the 
prevention of conflicts and natural disasters alike, and 
it will require us to devote new efforts to assist nations 
in 
to 
democracy, poverty to prosperity. 

Let  us  show  the  people  of  the  world  that  we  are 
indeed  up  to  these  enormous  tasks.  Then,  and  only 
then, will we be able to say: “Yes, we did!” 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Antigua  and  Barbuda  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

Mr. Winston Baldwin Spencer, Prime Minister and 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda, was escorted from the rostrum. 
to  peace,  autocracy 
from  war 
transition 



  Address by Sheikh Hasina, Prime Minister of 
the People’s Republic of Bangladesh 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh. 

Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  Bangladesh,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 

great  pleasure  in  welcoming  Her  Excellency  Sheikh 
Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of  the  People’s  Republic  of 
Bangladesh,  and  inviting  her  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. 
Sheikh  Hasina  (Bangladesh)  (spoke  in  Bangla; 

English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  warmly 
congratulate  Mr.  Al-Nasser  on  his  well-deserved 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-sixth  session.  I  am  confident  that  under  his  able 
and dynamic stewardship, we will achieve our goals. I 
thank former President Joseph Deiss for the success of 
the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General Assembly.  I  also 
thank  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  the  wise 
selection  of  the  theme  “The  role  of  mediation  in  the 
settlement  of  disputes  by  peaceful  means”  for  this 
year’s general debate.  

I  take  this  opportunity  to  welcome  South  Sudan 
as  the  193rd  Member  of  the  United  Nations  and 
warmly congratulate the people of the newest State on 
attaining their freedom and independence. 

I believe that peace is the basis for development. 
I also believe that peace prevails when justice prevails. 
Therefore, justice at home and abroad is important for 
ensuring  the  peaceful  mediation  and  settlement  of 
disputes.  My  father  and  the  father  of  my  nation, 
Bangabandhu  Sheikh  Mujibur  Rahman,  who  espoused 
the  principles  of  “friendship 
towards  all,  malice 
towards  none”  and  “peaceful  settlement  of  disputes”, 
also believed in this, and declared it from this rostrum 
37 years ago. 

Thus,  justice  for  peace  found  its  place  in  my 
Government’s  domestic  and  foreign  policy  and  has 
contributed 
to  strengthening  Bangladesh’s  secular, 
democratic and progressive ideals. A strong foundation 
in  the  rule  of  law  has  also  helped  in  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes with our neighbours and formed 
the  basis  of  our  participation  in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  operations.  Emphasis  on  peaceful 
negotiations  has  also  enabled  Bangladesh  to  maintain 
an annual gross domestic product growth rate of 6 per 
cent,  create  thousands  of  jobs,  reduce  poverty  and 
expand  social  safety  net  schemes 
to 
the  poor, 
disadvantaged, elderly and deprived women. 
40 

11-51360 
in 



The role of the United Nations has changed since 
its  establishment.  The  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security now includes the new challenges of 
intra-State ethnic strife, terrorism, transnational crimes, 
climate  change, poverty,  energy  and water security, as 
well as the widening gap between the rich and the poor. 
However,  the  successes  of  the  United  Nations  have 
reinforced the belief that, in the twenty-first century, it 
remains  the  most  legitimate  and  universally  accepted 
international body with the ability to harness the global 
collective will necessary for the peaceful settlement of 
disputes through mediation. 

Bangladesh  therefore  commends  the  Secretary-
General’s  report  on  enhancing  mediation  and  its 
support activities (S/2009/189) for promoting the better 
use  of  the  United  Nations  mediation  mandate,  and 
co-sponsored  resolution  65/283  on  strengthening  the 
role  of  mediation 
the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes, conflict prevention and resolution.  

To demonstrate its strong commitment to conflict 
resolution,  Bangladesh  has  partnered  in  many  United 
for  peace,  democracy  and 
Nations  endeavours 
development.  Our  contribution 
to  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  of  102,294  peacekeepers  in  52  missions 
and 36 countries has sadly led to the loss of the lives of 
103 brave Bangladeshis. Our involvement also includes 
the first all-women United Nations police unit in Haiti. 

As  Non-Aligned  Movement  Coordinator  in  the 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  Bangladesh 
is  always 
advocating  in  favour  of  peacebuilding,  development 
and  preventive  diplomacy  in  post-conflict  societies. 
Unfortunately, we remain woefully underrepresented at 
the  planning  and  strategy-making 
the 
Department of Peacekeeping Operations, which should 
be  promptly  redressed.  As  a  member  of  the  Human 
Rights Council and the  Economic and Social Council, 
we  conscientiously  promote  democracy,  secularism, 
justice and the rule of law, and equal rights for women, 
children,  minorities  and  other  vulnerable  groups. As  a 
member of the executive bodies of the United Nations 
Development Programme (UNDP), the United Nations 
Population Fund, UNICEF, UNESCO and the Food and 
Agriculture Organization, we  are  committed to setting 
global norms and standards in development practices. 

Since I believe that justice brings peace, in 1997, 
during my previous term as Prime Minister, I mediated 
the  Chittagong  Hill  Tracts  Peace  Accord  for  the 
marginalized  communities  of  the  Hill  Tracts  region. 
levels  of 
A/66/PV.22
signed  after 
The  Accord,  which  was 
intense 
discussions,  ended  a  20-year  conflict  that  cost  over 
20,000  lives.  During  the  same  term,  I  mediated  the 
signing  of  the  30-year  Ganges  Water  Sharing  Treaty 
with neighbouring India. During my current term, this 
month  we  mediated  and  signed  memoranda  of 
understanding  with  India  on  our  border  demarcation, 
an  issue  that  had  been  pending  for  the  past  64  years, 
causing obstructions in the everyday life of my people. 
I  am  committed  to  settling  all  our  problems  with 
neighbouring India through discussion. 

During  my  current  term  and  soon  after  forming 
the Government, one of the most dangerous challenges 
that I have faced was the mutiny of our border forces, 
which  took  72  lives.  Yet,  that  time,  too,  I  chose  a 
mediated settlement, thereby avoiding possible further 
loss of life. As a result, I came to believe that there can 
be  no  peace  without  justice.  We  have  established  an 
independent International Crimes Tribunal to try those 
responsible  for  war  crimes  committed  during  our 
liberation war in 1971. Their eventual punishment will 
strengthen  our  democracy  and  show  that  the  State  is 
capable of just retribution. 
As  a  State  party  to  the  Rome  Statute  of  the 

International  Criminal  Court,  we  believe 
the 
Statute’s mandate of bringing perpetrators to justice.  I 
am  fully  committed  to  battling  terrorism  in  all  its 
forms,  having  personally  suffered  from  acts  of  terror. 
Here,  I  recall  with  profound  sadness 
the  brutal 
assassination  of  my  father,  the  first  President  of 
Bangladesh,  Bangabandhu  Sheikh  Mujibur  Rahman, 
and  18  of  my  immediate  family  members,  including 
my  mother  and  three  brothers,  on  15  August  1975.  I 
also recall the grenade attack on me and my followers 
at a peace rally on 21 August 2004, which left 24 dead 
and  nearly  500  injured.  I  miraculously  escaped  but 
with permanent loss of hearing. 

I  often  think  of  all  the  victims  of  terrorism, 
especially  those  of  the  11  September  2001  attacks  in 
New  York,  as  well  as  attacks  that  have  taken  place 
elsewhere  in  the  world.  Indeed,  if  peace  is  to  prevail, 
these terrorists must be brought to justice. 

Our  Government  has  a  zero-tolerance  policy 
towards  terrorism.  Our  aim  is  to  break  the  nexus 
between  terrorism,  extremism  and  radicalization  and 
eliminate all of them from Bangladesh, a State party to 
all  United  Nations  counter-terrorism  conventions.  At 
the  same  time,  we  are  strengthening  our  democratic 
in 
11-51360 

41 

In 
rights. 
pursuing 
judiciary, 
legislature  and 
A/66/PV.22 

institutions,  such  as  the  commissions  on  elections, 
anti-corruption,  human  rights,  information,  as  well  as 
our 
law  enforcement 
agencies, which are tools for eliminating terrorism and 
extremism. 

Since  justice  begets  peace  and  peace  is  vital  for 
development,  our  policies  are  attuned  to  ensuring 
peoples’ 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs), we are also fulfilling our 
people’s  aspirations.  The  United  Nations  Award  for 
MDG  4  on  reducing  child  mortality,  which  I  received 
last  year,  is  a  case  in  point.  We  are  also  on  track  to 
achieve  MDG  1  on  poverty  alleviation,  MDG  2  on 
universal  primary  education,  MDG  3  on  gender 
equality  and  MDG  5  on  reducing  maternal  mortality. 
Our  poverty  reduction  strategy  is  in  tandem  with  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  intends  to  raise 
12 million people out of poverty by 2015. 

For  development,  we  have  integrated  women’s 
education  into  our  State  policy. There  is  a  saying  that 
goes,  “If  you  educate  a  boy,  you  educate  a  person;  if 
you  educate  a  girl,  you  educate  a  family  and  a  whole 
nation”. Therefore, during our first term from 1996 to 
2001,  we  adopted  a  national  women’s  development 
policy that has been revised during our current term to 
make  it  more  relevant.  The  policy  provides  for  the 
empowerment  of  women, 
in 
decision-making, their protection, and gender equality. 
Education for girls is free up to the twelfth grade, and 
steps are on their way to ensure their free tuition until 
graduation. 

Following  the  2008  general  elections,  women’s 
participation in politics increased with their election to 
12,828 reserved seats in local Government bodies  and 
64  members  in  the  national  Parliament.  We  also  have 
five women Cabinet ministers in charge of agriculture, 
home,  foreign  affairs,  women’s  and  children’s  affairs, 
and labour. The Opposition Leader, the Deputy Leader, 
a  Whip  and,  of  course,  the  Prime  Minister  are  all 
women.  For  the  first  time  in  our  history,  two  women 
Members  of  Parliament  have  been  made  Chairs  of 
Parliamentary  Standing  Committees.  Women  now 
occupy  high  positions  in  the  Supreme  Court,  in  civil, 
police  and  armed  services,  and  in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  missions.  Female  business  ventures  also 
receive support from the Small and Medium Enterprise 
Foundation. 
their  participation 
and 
the 
offices, 
a 
park, 
high-tech 
communications 

To  achieve  our  election  pledge  of  a  digital 
Bangladesh  and  to  make  Bangladesh  a  middle-income 
country  by  2021,  the  golden  jubilee  year  of  our 
independence,  we  are  expanding 
reach  of 
information 
technology 
throughout  the  country.  UNDP  Administrator  Helen 
Clark was with us this year to witness the launching of 
e-connectivity  through  our  4,500  information  and 
service  centres,  which  provide  Internet  access  to 
millions  of  rural  people.  We  have  also  set  up  an 
e-centre  for  rural  communities,  which  connects  8,500 
post 
e-governance 
capabilities and an e-infrastructure-building process.  

I  believe  in  that  health  for  all  is  an  essential 
precondition  for  development.  Primary  health-care 
services  are  delivered  through  11,000  community 
health  centres  in  rural  areas,  with  each  providing 
services  to  6,000  people.  My  Government  has  also 
recently  started  raising  awareness  about  autism  and 
developmental  disorders  in  children.  Last  July,  we 
launched the Global Autism Public Health Initiative in 
Dhaka to help those disadvantaged with such disorders. 

However,  to  pursue  those  efforts  and  to  develop 
socio-economic  security,  least  developed  countries 
(LDCs),  such  as  Bangladesh,  need 
international 
support.  The  support  must  come  from  granting  us 
market  access,  removing  trade  barriers,  the  fulfilment 
of  overseas  development  aid  and  combating  climate 
change.  The  commitments  made  in  Istanbul  this  May 
on  agriculture,  energy, 
infrastructure,  water  and 
migration would also strengthen the economic stability 
of  LDCs.  It  is  now  time  for  development  partners  to 
implement the commitments made in Monterrey, Paris 
and  Brussels  before  the  conclusion  of  the  Doha 
Development Round. Support must continue to enable 
LDCs to fulfil their Millennium Development Goals. 

for 
Bangladesh under the extra tension of climate change. 
A  metre  rise  in  the  sea  level  due  to  global  warming 
would inundate a fifth of our landmass, displacing over 
30  million  people.  That  would  be 
largest 
humanitarian crisis in history. In order not to lose time, 
we  have  prepared  a  134-point  adaptation  and 
mitigation  plan 
river  dredging, 
afforestation of 20 per cent of the land, increasing food 
production  with  crop  varieties  adapted  to  climate 
change,  et  cetera.  We  also  established  the  Climate 
Change  Trust  Fund  with  $300  million  from  our  own 
is  especially 
important 
includes 
support 
Such 
the 
that 
42 

11-51360 
disparity, 


funds  and  the  Bangladesh  Climate  Change  Resilience 
Fund with $110 million from donors.  

Bangla  is  spoken  by  over  300  million  people 
worldwide. I earnestly appeal to Member States to back 
my  proposal  to  declare  Bangla  one  of  the  official 
languages  of  the  United  Nations.  I  also  seek  their 
support for Bangladesh’s annual flagship resolution on 
a  culture  of  peace,  which  I  launched  in  2000,  when  I 
was Prime Minister for the first time. 

Throughout  my  half-century  in  politics,  I  have 
always been a crusader of peace. I believe that peace is 
achievable  by  eliminating  injustices,  which  includes 
Repression,  the  absence  of  the  rule  of  law,  inequality, 
poverty, 
economic 
deprivation, 
the 
suppression  of  self-determination, 
the  denial  of 
secularism and multi-ethnicity, the negligence of equal 
rights for women and the marginalized, and the lack of 
transparency  and  accountability  of  Governments. 
Those  types  of  injustices,  according  to  the  Uppsala 
Conflict Data Programme, led to the loss of more than 
5 million lives from 1964 to 2011. I believe that such 
deaths  could  have  been  avoided  by  strengthening  the 
mediation  instruments  of  the  United  Nations  and  by 
placing people at the centre of peace and development. 

In  fact,  my  life  experiences  have  inspired  me  to 
come  up  with  a  new  peace  model,  based  on  the 
empowerment of people. It is a multidimensional plan 
that  champions  democracy  and  places  people’s 
empowerment  at 
the  centre,  with  six  mutually 
reinforcing  peace  multipliers.  They  are:  first,  the 
eradication  of  poverty  and  hunger;  secondly,  the 
reduction  of  inequality;  thirdly,  the  mitigation  of 
inclusion  of  excluded 
deprivation; 
persons; 
human 
development; and sixthly, the elimination of terrorism. 

I  call  it  the  people’s  empowerment  model.  It 
reaffirms that all people should be treated equally, and 
emphasizes 
the 
enhancement  of  human  capabilities  for  the  realization 
of peace. 

Prosperity  is  achievable  with  the  removal  of 
injustice  and  disempowerment  in  an  environment  of 
peace.  That  is  possible  by  individual  nations  through 
sincere  implementation  of  what  is  right,  sometimes 
under the guidance of the United Nations. Let us all try 
to  test  that  model  of  people’s  empowerment,  which  I 
believe  has  the  potential  to  transform  our  world  of 
the  empowerment  of  people  and 
acceleration 
fourthly, 
fifthly, 
the 
the 
of 
A/66/PV.22
May  Bangladesh  live  forever.  Long  live  the 
7 billion people into  one where our future generations 
may prosper and live in happiness. 

United Nations. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime Minister of the People’s Republic of Bangladesh 
for the statement she has just made. 

Sheikh  Hasina,  Prime  Minister  of  the  People’s 
Republic  of  Bangladesh,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 



  Address by Mr. Freundel Stuart, Prime 
Minister and Minister for National Security 
of Barbados  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister 
for  National  Security  of 
Barbados. 

Mr. Freundel Stuart, Prime Minister and Minister 
for  National  Security  of  Barbados,  was  escorted 
to the rostrum. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 

great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
Mr. Freundel  Stuart,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for 
National  Security  of  Barbados,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Stuart  (Barbados):  I  am  pleased  to  convey 

my  greetings  to  the  President  and  to  offer  him  the 
congratulations  of  my  Government  and  the  delegation 
of Barbados on his election as President of the General 
Assembly  at  this  sixty-sixth  session. Those  of  us  who 
are  familiar  with  the  very  high  standards  to  which  he 
routinely subscribes confidently expect him to steer the 
deliberations of this session with his accustomed calm 
and  skill.  It  is  appropriate  that  I  also  commend  his 
predecessor in office, Mr. Joseph Deiss, for the aplomb 
with  which  he  guided  the  deliberations  of  the  sixty-
fifth session of this Assembly. 

I  am  also  pleased  to  congratulate  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon on his reappointment as Secretary-General. I 
acknowledge  the  sterling  work  that  he  has  done  over 
the  past  five  years,  and  wish  him  a  successful  second 
term.  
extend 

I 
congratulations  to  the  Government  and  people  of  the 
especially 
delighted 
am 
to 
11-51360 

43 
just  society 
to  create  a 
A/66/PV.22 

Republic  of  South  Sudan  on  their  achievement  of 
independence.  On  behalf  of  the  Government  and 
people  of  Barbados,  I  reiterate  our  support  and 
solidarity  on  South  Sudan’s  admission  to  the  United 
Nations as its 193rd Member. 

It  is  with  genuine  pleasure  that  I  address  the 
Assembly  today  in  my  capacity  as  Prime  Minister  of 
Barbados.  The  untimely  death  11  months  ago  of  my 
predecessor  in  office  placed  on  my  shoulders  the 
primary  responsibility  of  pursuing  the  ideals  to  which 
Barbados is committed both at home and abroad. 

Some  45  years  ago,  our  first  Prime  Minister,  in 
his  maiden  address  to  this  Assembly,  articulated  our 
position in the following terms:  

“The people of Barbados do not draw a dividing 
line  between  their  internal  affairs  and  their 
foreign  policy.  They  strive  in  their  domestic 
arrangements 
for 
themselves.  In  their  Constitution  they  affirm 
respect for the rule of law; they also declare their 
intention  to  establish  and  maintain  the  kind  of 
society  which  enables  each  citizen,  to  the  full 
extent of his capacity, to play his part in national 
life  …  In  thus  charting  our  domestic  course,  we 
can  have  no  interest  in  a  foreign  policy  that 
contradicts  our  national  goals  …  [W]e  are 
exponents, not of the diplomacy of power, but of 
the  diplomacy  of  peace  and  prosperity.” 
(A/PV.1487, paras. 75-78) 

Much,  of  course,  has  changed  since  then.  The 
world we know today is vastly different from the world 
of 1966, yet we continue to keep faith with the vision 
of 
in 
addressing the General Assembly on matters of foreign 
policy  is  therefore,  paradoxically,  at  once  easy  and 
difficult.  It  is  easy  because  we  still  adhere  to  our 
foundational  principles;  it  is  difficult  because  we  now 
have  to  apply  them  in  a  world  that  has  grown  much 
more  complex,  much  more  volatile  and  much  more 
dangerous. 

If  we  need  further  proof  that  we  live  in  an 
interconnected  world,  the  present  economic  downturn 
provides  a  painful  reminder.  When  large  economies 
such  as  those  of  the  United  States  and  Europe  are 
reeling,  one  may  well  imagine  the  toll  that  the  worst 
crisis  since  the  Great  Depression  is  taking  on  small 
vulnerable  societies 
the 
Caribbean Sea and the Pacific Ocean. 
the  father  of  our 
independence.  My 
that  populate 
like 
those 

that  avoids 
in  our  societies 

We  in  Barbados  have  chosen  to  withstand  the 
economic storms that assail us by relying on the good 
judgment  of  our  people  to  come  together  in  times  of 
peril. My Government has partnered with the business 
community  and  the  trade  union  movement  to  ensure 
that  layoffs  and  wage  demands  alike  are  kept  to  an 
absolute  minimum  so  that  the  gain  and  the  pain  are 
shared  equitably.  We  are  committed  to  protecting  the 
most  vulnerable  among  us  because  it  is  our  settled 
conviction that a nation is more than just an economy; 
it is also a society. 

The cruel irony of the current downturn is that it 
might have been avoided if corporations had restrained 
their greed and Government oversight and regulation at 
the international, regional and national levels had been 
more vigorous and rigorous. This highlights the urgent 
need for a new architecture of global finance that will 
render  unlikely  the  prospect  of  our  lurching  from  one 
crisis to another, and lay the groundwork for a smooth 
and  balanced  economic  recovery 
the 
massive  social  dislocations  we  are  now  witnessing. 
Recovery that comes at the expense of the poorest and 
most  vulnerable 
is  not  only 
unenlightened  economics,  but  also  very  dangerous 
politics. 

We  in  Barbados  have  welcomed  the  rise  of  the 
global  economy  in  the  past  two  decades,  since  it  has 
the potential for creating prosperity for all nations. But 
it  will  realize  its  potential  only  if  the  increasingly 
volatile  flows  of  international  capital  are  governed  by 
fair  and  transparent  rules.  In  laying  down  an  orderly 
framework 
economic 
transactions, we urge that the international community 
apply the principle enunciated by Aristotle upwards of 
2,000 years ago that there  should be equality between 
equals and proportionality between unequals. 
Barbados believes that the path to prosperity lies 

in  open  economies,  open 
societies  and  open 
Governments,  and  is  constantly  positioning  itself  to 
compete  as  a  fully  compliant,  transparent,  rules-
governed global entrepreneurial and financial centre. 

Yet,  to  our  dismay,  we  find  that  the  rich  and 
powerful  keep  changing  the  rules  to  their  advantage 
and  to  our  disadvantage.  It  is  a  violation  both  of  fair 
play and of common sense to move the goalposts while 
the  game  is  in  progress.  Let  it  be  clearly  understood 
that, on this issue, it is not charity we seek; it is justice 
we demand. 
for  global 
financial 
and 
task 
44 

11-51360 



However, none of the nations represented in this 
Assembly  will  enjoy  sustainable  prosperity  if  we 
continue  to  abuse  the  environment  which  we  hold  in 
sacred trust for future generations. It is an inconvenient 
truth  that  the  success  of  humankind’s  development 
goals will depend on the ability of our planet to sustain 
our consumption and production activities. We must be 
cautious,  therefore,  about  how  we  use  fossil  fuels, 
about carbon emission levels and about the unregulated 
treatment  of  waste.  The  planet  has  now  begun  to 
protest  through  dramatic  changes  in  climate  and  the 
prospect of sea-level rise. The very existence of small 
island States like those in the Caribbean and the Pacific 
could  be  imperilled  if  current  trends  are  not  halted  or 
reversed. 
Barbados  has  been  an  active  participant  in  the 

environmental  movement  since 
the  1992  United 
Nations Conference on Environment and Development 
in  Rio.  We  are  proud  to  have  hosted  the  first  Global 
Conference  on  the  Sustainable  Development  of  Small 
Island States in 1994 and continue to work with other 
small  island  developing  States  to  update  and  improve 
the  Barbados  Programme  of Action  and  the  Mauritius 
Strategy for its further implementation. We continue to 
work  also  towards  the  success  of  the  2012  United 
Nations Conference on Sustainable Development. 

I am deeply honoured to have been asked to serve 
on the Secretary-General’s High-Level Panel on Global 
Sustainability. That our task is challenging no one will 
deny,  required  as  we  are  to  formulate  a  blueprint  for 
economic  growth  and  prosperity  that  focuses  on  the 
eradication of poverty, while ensuring greater equality 
and  inclusion  and  reducing  the  devastating  impact  of 
human  activities  on  ecosystems  and  the  environment. 
The  work  of  the  Panel  is  progressing  smoothly,  and  I 
assure  the  Assembly  that  my  colleagues  and  I  have 
readily accepted the challenge. 

Without peace and security, it is difficult to create 
and  maintain  the  social  conditions  that  constitute  a 
prerequisite for economic progress and prosperity. The 
protracted  conflict  in  the  Middle  East  between  Israel 
and  the  Palestinians  has  become  a  disturbing  anomaly 
in  a  world  where  so  many  other  disputes  have  been 
peacefully resolved. It is an anomaly because everyone 
knows what the solution is. It is disturbing because the 
only  thing  preventing  a  resolution  of  the  issue  is  an 
unhappy  convergence  of  dysfunctional  political 
currents at the domestic level. 
A/66/PV.22

The  State  of  Israel  has  a  right  to  exist,  and  the 
people of Israel have a right to live in security and to 
do  so  with  the  full  and  undisputed  recognition  of  the 
rest  of  the  world.  On  the  other  hand,  the  Palestinians 
are entitled also to enjoy the fruits of prosperity within 
their  own  sovereign  State.  Much  else  in  this  conflict 
may be negotiable. Surely, those two postulates are not. 
The  Holy  Land  has  for  centuries  been  the  locus  of 
humanity’s hopes. It is high time that it now become a 
symbol, not of humanity’s divisions, but of humanity’s 
unity.  This  state  of  affairs  will  ensue  only  when  the 
disgracefully  long  wait  of  the  Palestinians  for  a 
homeland is brought to an end. 

In a similar vein, the Government and the people 
of  Barbados  fully  embrace  Cuba  as  an  important 
partner  in  the  Caribbean  region  and,  since  1972,  have 
committed  themselves  to  a  policy  of  constructive 
engagement with its Government and people. Barbados 
respects  the  sovereign  rights  of  Cuba  and  supports 
unequivocally  its  full  integration  into  our  hemisphere. 
Barbados  does  not  believe  that  actions  such  as  the 
decades-long  economic  embargo  aimed  at  isolating 
Cuba,  or  any  other  measures  that  create  greater 
hardship  for  the  Cuban  people,  will  facilitate  the  full 
integration which we consider to be both desirable and 
necessary.  My  delegation  thinks,  therefore,  that  the 
economic  embargo  against  Cuba  has  long  outlived  its 
usefulness and should be lifted. 

Barbados  remains  committed  also  to  supporting 
the development and the advancement of the people of 
Haiti.  For  my  delegation,  the  reconstruction  of  Haiti, 
including  the  rebuilding  of  its  democratic  institutions, 
continues  to  be  a  high  priority.  We  fully  support  the 
call  made 
the  Heads  of  State  and 
Government  of  the  Caribbean  Community  for  the 
international community to fulfil its pledges to finance 
the reconstruction of Haiti following the devastation of 
the earthquake that occurred in January 2010. 

Terrorism,  whether  emanating  from  States  or 
from  non-State  actors,  is  an  attack  on  what  we  have 
always  known 
the 
Organization. I speak of the rule of law; the protection 
of civilians; mutual respect between people of different 
faiths  and  cultures;  and  the  peaceful  resolution  of 
conflict. 

It  is  the  view  of  my  delegation  that  the  United 
Nations  must  be  the  foremost  form  of  collective 
security  against  terrorism,  convinced  as  we  are  that 
the  core  values  of 
in  July  by 
to  be 
11-51360 

45 
of 
a 
legally 
robust 
for 
the 
binding, 
including 
standards 
small  arms, 
A/66/PV.22 

while 
terrorism  may  arise  out  of  conditions  of 
insecurity and deprivation, it should never be accepted 
or justified in the pursuit of any cause whatsoever. 

Barbados therefore continues to be an active and 
committed partner in global efforts to combat terrorism 
and  other  transnational  criminal  activities.  We  have 
experienced  first-hand  the  deleterious  effects  on  our 
societies  of  the  illicit  trade  in  small  arms  and  light 
weapons.  At  their  Summit  in  July  2011,  CARICOM 
Heads of Government committed themselves to accord 
the highest national and regional priority to combating 
and eradicating the illicit trade in small arms and light 
weapons and their ammunition. 

We  have  a  vested  interest,  therefore,  in  the 
success of the United Nations Conference on the Arms 
Trade Treaty,  to  be  held  in  2012. We  will  continue  to 
work with other Member States to achieve the ultimate 
objective 
and 
comprehensive Arms  Trade  Treaty  which  imposes  the 
highest  possible 
transfer  of 
conventional  arms, 
light 
weapons and ammunition. 
Much  has  changed  since  the  formation  of  the 

United Nations in 1945. Some of the global challenges 
we face today, such as the pandemics of HIV/AIDS and 
non-communicable  diseases,  climate  change, 
the 
growth of the illicit drug trade, transnational crime and 
the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  are 
new.  Others,  including  extreme  poverty,  genocide, 
terrorism  and  civil  conflict,  are  old.  Yet  the  need  for 
the United Nations remains as pressing today as it was 
at the time of its formation. While the United Nations 
is an organization of sovereign States, it exists to serve 
the needs of all the peoples of the world. 
We  need  to  be  constantly  reminded,  therefore, 

that  even  if  he  can  vote  to  choose  his  Government,  a 
young  man 
living  with  AIDS  who  faces  daily 
discrimination  is  not  truly  free.  Even  if  she  earns  a 
comfortable living, a woman who lives in fear of daily 
violence  and  has  no  say  in  how  her  country  is  run  is 
not truly free. Even if he enjoys freedom of speech and 
assembly,  a  young  man  dying  of  hunger  is  not  truly 
free. Freedom to live in dignity, freedom from fear and 
freedom from want are inextricably connected. Indeed, 
all people, wherever they can be found, have the right 
to security and to development. 
As Member States, we must recommit ourselves, 

therefore,  to  realizing  the  ideals  of  the  Organization, 

bearing in mind that commitment to the pragmatic and 
the  possible  must  sometimes  be  our  steppingstone  to 
the realization of the ideal. That approach, Barbados is 
convinced,  is  an  infallible  way  of  giving  effect  to  the 
determination of the founders of the United Nations “to 
save succeeding generations from the scourge of war” 
and “to promote social progress and better standards of 
life in larger freedom”. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  National  Security  of 
Barbados for the statement he has just made. 

Mr. Freundel Stuart, Prime Minister and Minister 
for  National  Security  of  Barbados,  was  escorted 
from the rostrum.  
 

  Address by Mr. Mahmoud Jibreel, Chairman 
of the National Transitional Council Executive 
Office of Libya 
 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the Chairman of 
the  National  Transitional  Council  Executive  Office  of 
Libya. 

Mr. Mahmoud Jibreel, Chairman of the National 
Transitional  Council  Executive  Office  of  Libya, 
was escorted to the rostrum. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  have 

in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
great  pleasure 
Mr. Mahmoud  Jibreel,  Chairman  of 
the  National 
Transitional  Council  Executive  Office  of  Libya,  and 
inviting  him  to  address  the  Assembly  on  behalf  of  a 
new, free Libya.  
 Mr.  Jibreel  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset,  allow  me 
the 
Ambassador  of  sisterly  Qatar  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth 
session.  I  should  like  also  to  thank  Secretary-General 
Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  on  his  reappointment  to  a  second 
term as Secretary-General. 

I stand before the Assembly today feeling sadness 
and  awe  at  the  loss  of  the  more  than  30,000  martyrs 
who sacrificed their lives for my country. Their sacred 
blood  was  shed  to  write  a  new  history  for  the  new 
Libya.  By  the  same  token,  I  bow  before  the  mothers 
who  now  know  that  their  sons’  sacrifice  was  just  and 
rightful.  Had  the  same  events  been  repeated,  mothers, 
fathers, sons and daughters would have done the same, 
thank  most  sincerely 
to 
46 

11-51360 
to 
the  United  Nations, 


in order to write the new history. From this rostrum, let 
me salute all the martyrs whose blood was shed, and all 
the  mothers  and  fathers  in  Libya.  I  also  salute  the 
thousands  of  wounded  in  hospitals  both  inside  and 
outside Libya. 

Two years ago, in this very Hall and on this very 
spot, Muammar Al-Qadhafi stood before the Assembly 
and tore up the Charter of the United Nations. That was 
a  pathetic,  theatrical  move  that  disdainfully  flouted 
international values. Even though we might have some 
reservations  about  the  rules  that  govern  the  work  of 
international  organizations,  they  should  not  be  judged 
in  such  a  manner  or  treated  in  such  a  theatrical  way, 
which  is  harmful  to  the  people  of  Libya,  to  the 
Secretary-General  of 
the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  and  indeed  to  the 
entire Organization.  

I  stand  before  the  Assembly  today  to  show  the 
world  that  a  new  Libya  is  being  born,  a  Libya  that 
looks  ahead  with  a  vision  of  development  and  self-
realization,  a  Libya  that  wants  to  heal  its  wounds, 
overcome  its  pain  and  reach  out  to  the  entire  world. 
This  new  Libya  wants  to  rebuild  and  to  reform  its 
history. 

The  vision  of  the  new  Libya  is  that  of  a  civil, 
democratic  State  governed  by  a  clear,  unambiguous 
constitution  that  sets  forth  rights  and  obligations,  that 
does  not  discriminate  between  male  and  female,  one 
faction  and  another,  one  political  belief  and  another, 
between east and west, nor along racial or ethnic lines.  

All  Libyans  are  the  sons  and  daughters  of  this 
nation,  a  nation  that  is  now  determined  to  heal  its 
wounds  and  move  on  after  42  years  away  from  the 
international community. It seeks to be an active party, 
like  other  countries  of  the  world,  one  that  can 
contribute to a human civilization. 

We  do  not  claim  to  have  a  magic  wand,  as 
Muammar Al-Qadhafi did when he looked at himself in 
the  mirror  and  suddenly  discovered  that  he  was  an 
almighty  prophet  with  a  solution  to  every  problem  on 
Earth, except for Libya’s. 

After 42 years, one fifth of Libya’s people live in 
poverty,  and  the  country’s  educational  and  health 
systems  and  services  are  the  worst  in  the  region. 
Infrastructure 
to  pieces,  and  youth 
unemployment  is  over  30  per  cent.  Those  are  the 
is 
falling 
A/66/PV.22
solutions  bequeathed  to  us  by  Muammar  Al-Qadhafi. 
Libya is witness to that. 

The  new  Libya  of  which  I  speak  did  not  arise 
from a vacuum. It has been watered by the blood shed 
since  17  February  of  this  year,  when  Libyan  youth 
decided  to  turn  a  new  page  in  Libyan  history.  The 
entire  Libyan  people  —  young  and  old,  women  and 
children  —  paid  the  ultimate  price.  All  the  sons  and 
daughters of Libya have written this page. No one can 
claim to lead this revolution or own it; only the Libyan 
people can claim that. 

In  the  very  first  week  of  March  of  this  year,  a 
parallel  action  was  launched  alongside  the  act  of 
revolutionary  youth  in  all  cities  of  Libya. A  group  of 
people, including myself, was working day and night to 
provide political support and to interpret the just cause 
of  the  Libyan  people  on  Libyan  soil,  to  interpret  the 
prevailing  oppression  and  dictatorship  and  the  lack  of 
any  development  for  the  past  42  years.  Friendly, 
sisterly countries  responded to that call. They  reached 
out  to  the  hands  that  had  reached  out  to  them.  The 
world helped us to shed injustice. 
On  behalf  of  the  Libyan  people,  I  wish  here  to 

thank  all  friendly  States,  all  sisterly  States  and  all 
regional organizations. I wish to thank in particular the 
United  Nations  for  Security  Council  resolutions  1970 
(2011)  and  1973  (2011),  which  were  a  determining 
factor  in  eliminating  injustice  and  protecting  civilians 
and preventing any further massacres in my country. 

On  the  basis  of  such  continuous  diplomatic 
efforts,  I  can  say  today  that  that  mission  has  been 
accomplished.  Now  we  have  a  new  mission.  Let  us 
make  another  attempt.  Let  us  reach  out  to  those  who 
need technical assistance. Let all funds be unfrozen so 
that, having freed themselves from tyranny, the Libyan 
people can now rebuild. 

Libya today is at the crossroads of realities on the 
ground,  expectations  and  rightful  dues.  The  facts  can 
be  summarized  quite  briefly. The  land  is  not  yet  fully 
liberated. There are still some fronts to be liberated. It 
is our right within Libya to liberate our own land, and 
we hope to do just that sometime soon. 

Our  infrastructure  has  been  destroyed. There  are 
many wounded and martyred in all Libyan cities. More 
than  63  schools  have  been  destroyed.  There  are  more 
than  50,000  injured.  Amputees  number  more  than 
1,700.  They  await  help  and  succour  so  that  they  can 
11-51360 

47 

Funds  and  assets  have  been 
A/66/PV.22 

once  again  effectively  contribute  to  rebuilding  their 
country. 

The social fabric needs healing, having been torn 
by  Al-Qadhafi.  He  tried  to  turn  some  tribes  and 
communities  against  each  other  and  some  regions 
against others.  
The economy is broken down. Oil sits, needing to 

pumped  and  exported.  Although  production  is  being 
resumed, we believe that more assistance is required in 
that regard.  

frozen.  The 
announced  lifting  of  the  freeze  certainly  does  not  rise 
to  the  level  of  what  is  required  in  order  to  enable 
reconstruction  and  rehabilitation  of  the  country.  State 
institutions  need  to  be  re-established  and  rebuilt, 
particularly  because  the  country  has  been  deprived  of 
any real institutions for over 42 years. Libya is a State 
that  had  no  law  or  institutions.  Social  and  political 
demands  are  jostling  each  other,  not  just  in  terms  of 
participation but also of setting priorities.  

First  and  foremost,  we  must  agree  on  the  rules 
and  principles  of  participation.  In  addition,  as  the 
Assembly  knows,  there  are  many  expectations,  from 
our  people  within  and 
the 
international  community  without.  As  the  Assembly 
considers  how  soon  the  transitional  period  will  begin 
and how the transitional Government will be created, it 
is  calling  for  respect  for  human  rights  and  for  respect 
for  foreign  workers,  asking  that  we  deal  with  them  in 
accordance  with  international  norms.  The  Assembly 
calls  for us to include everyone, without exclusion, to 
build  institutions  at  the  required  speed,  to  achieve 
national  reconciliation  and  end 
the  arming  and 
militarization of our streets and towns, and to maintain 
the  unity  of 
international 
community 
in 
reconstruction.  

standard. 
Nevertheless, a people that was able to bring down its 
regime  and  face  political  initiatives  from  all  sides 
could  not  accept  that  its  situation  was  at  a  standstill. 
The Transitional National Council has always rejected 
compromise  solutions.  Through  their  will,  the  Libyan 
youth and Libyan people proved that those calculations 
were  wrong,  proving  that  they  can  win  the  battle  and 
face  all  the  challenges,  despite  all  the  doubts  and 
problems that I just mentioned. 
is  a  great  deal  by  any 
the  homeland.  The 
from  members  of 
is  also  asking  us 
to 
include 
it 
That 
48 

National  unity  without  a  unified  land  or  without 

is  an 
illusion.  Achieving 
national 
reconciliation 
security  and  national 
reconciliation  are  urgent 
imperatives  for  any  Government,  whether  interim  or 
transitional.  No  political  participation 
is  possible 
without rules, rights and obligations. Therefore, it is of 
the utmost importance to put a draft constitution to the 
Libyan  people  for  referendum.  We  want  the  rules  of 
political  participation  to  be  fair  and  to  govern  the 
dialogue and competition, giving rights to all, without 
excluding any individual or group.  

The  assets  freeze  on  our  funds  must  be  fully 
lifted  as  soon  as  possible.  Let  me  appeal  to  the 
Assembly  from  this  rostrum  and  to  the  Security 
Council  to  adopt  the  historic  resolution  to  lift  the 
freeze  soon.  The  regime  has  fallen,  even  though  we 
have not yet liberated the entire homeland.  

We  seek  the  help  of  the  United  Nations,  the 
unconditional  help  of  friendly  and  sisterly  countries. 
We believe it to be a legitimate and undeniable right of 
all States to enjoy sovereignty, whatever the nature  or 
size of assistance that is sought and needed.  
The Libya that we want is a State of law, an oasis 

for human development in the Middle East. We believe 
that  Libya, 
its 
geostrategic importance in the world, is a cultural link 
between  North,  South,  East  and  West.  Libya  must 
resume  that  role,  a  role  that  has  been  denied  to  it  for 
more than 40 years now.  

I  believe  that  development  solutions  that  Libya 
may  propose  could  help  find  unprecedented  solutions 
to  the  phenomenon  of  illegal  migration  from  the 
southern  part  of  the  African  continent  to  Europe.  We 
believe that the twenty-first century will be  ruled to  a 
large extent by demography, and we believe that Africa 
has  the  greatest  capacities  in  terms  of  geography  and 
human resources. We believe that hundreds of millions 
of  young  Africans  will  be  driven  by  poverty  and 
unemployment  to  move  northward.  Libya  can  be  the 
gateway to development, instead of being the obstacle 
to migration from South to North.  

African  labour,  skills  and  competencies  that 
satisfy  the  needs  of  the  European  economies  can 
contribute  to  European  economic  growth,  particularly 
in the light of the fact that in the next 30 years Europe 
will  be  facing  a  much  smaller,  ageing  population.  In 
2050,  the  population  of  Europe  will  have  diminished 
by  72  million;  Africa’s  population  will  be  nearly 
through  geography,  history  and 
11-51360 
reviews  Muammar  Al-Qadhafi’s 
interests,  and  on  non-intervention 


2 billion.  We  believe  that  all  this  can  contribute  to 
European  economic  well-being  and  development 
through  an  agreement  between  Libyan  capital  and 
European technology. 

On  the  political  front,  Libya  must  be  a  civilian 
democratic  State  that  gives  full  opportunities  and 
participation to all its sons and daughters. Women must 
have a major role in the reconstruction of such a State. 
Women in Libya, about 50 per cent of the population, 
enjoy  a  very  high  level  of  education,  because  many 
continue  their  education  beyond  high  school.  We 
believe  that  women  have  a  genuine  role  to  play  in 
rebuilding and developing Libya.  
As  for  foreign  policy,  we  need  a  vision  that 

radically 
foreign 
policy, which was designed to sow fear, terrorism and 
blackmail  in  many  regions  of  the  world.  Rare  is  the 
region  of  the  world  that  escaped  suffering  from 
Muammar  Al-Qadhafi’s  practices  and  plots 
to 
destabilize  them  through  terrorism.  Our  new  foreign 
policy must be based on mutual respect and respect for 
mutual 
the 
internal affairs of others, just as we do not accept that 
others 
International 
instruments,  conventions,  treaties,  norms,  values  and 
ethical  principles  must  be  respected.  These  are  the 
terms of reference for all relationships today. 

Rebuilding Libya into a civilian democratic State 
is  an  important  matter,  not  only  for  Libya  but,  in  our 
view, for the entire region as well. Libya is capable of 
becoming, and has the opportunity to become, a model 
of  democracy  and  successful  development.  The 
negative effects of the separation of a country’s politics 
from  its  economy  have  brought  many  problems  and 
difficulties to this region. 

The  time  has  come  for  a  vision  of  development 
that puts young people and women at the very top of its 
list  of  priorities  —  not  just  because  they  make  up 
67 per  cent  of  the  population  of  the  Arab  world,  but 
because  the  future  belongs  to  them.  It  is  they  who 
started and led this revolution and the other revolutions 
of the Arab Spring. We therefore need a new vision that 
responds  to  the  dreams  of  youth,  a  vision  that  the 
international  community  must  support;  otherwise,  the 
region  will  only  be  subjected  to  successive  waves  of 
instability. 
Supporting  Libya  in  this  development  paradigm 

is  no  less  important  and  critical  than  protecting 
intervene 
in 
in 
our 
affairs. 
A/66/PV.22
travelled  hand 
innocent civilians. The international community, whom 
we  thank,  did  this  in  implementing  Security  Council 
resolution  1973  (2011).  In 
this  context,  we  are 
proposing  a  clear  initiative,  which  could  be  termed 
“building  the  new  Libya”,  to  which  our  brothers  and 
friends  contribute.  However,  the  United  Nations  must 
play  a  pioneering  and  leading  role  here,  one  through 
which 
its  specialized  development  agencies  can 
provide  expertise  and  technical  assistance.  We  must 
give those agencies precedence over private companies 
in  order  to  avoid  any  possibility  of  corruption  or  lack 
of transparency and fairness. 

Mr.  Archondo  (Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia), 
Vice-President, took the Chair. 

We  believe  that  roads  are  made  by  the  feet  that 
walk  on  them.  The  Libyan  people  have  now  begun 
their  march  towards  rewriting  their  history.  We  have 
great  hopes  in  this  international  Organization,  which 
has 
in  hand  with  us.  It  was  a 
trustworthy,  reliable  friend  —  as  was,  indeed,  the 
entire  international  community  —  and  prevented  an 
imminent massacre in my country by intervening at the 
right time to save civilians. That makes a reality of the 
Arab  League’s  call  for  an  intervention,  and  we  thank 
the  League  for  that.  Just  as  the  United  Nations  was  a 
faithful friend at that time, we believe it can now be a 
trusted and supportive partner in the  rebuilding of my 
country. This  is  the  major  battle,  for  which  we  appeal 
to  the Assembly  for  assistance  —  political,  economic, 
financial and technical. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Chairman  of 
the  National  Transitional  Council 
Executive Office of Libya for the statement he has just 
made. 

Mr. Mahmoud Jibreel, Chairman of the National 
Transitional  Council  Executive  Office  of  Libya, 
was escorted from the rostrum. 



  Address by Mr. Lawrence Gonzi, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Malta 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of Malta. 

Mr.  Lawrence  Gonzi,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Malta, was escorted to the rostrum. 
11-51360 

49 

A/66/PV.22 

The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I have 

great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
Mr. Lawrence  Gonzi,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic 
of  Malta,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. 
Mr.  Gonzi  (Malta):  I  heartily  congratulate  the 

President on his unanimous election to preside over the 
General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session. I wish him 
every success and assure him that Malta, which enjoys 
excellent relations and increasing cooperation with his 
country,  Qatar,  will  extend 
its  full  support  and 
collaboration  in  the  tasks  ahead  of  him.  I  would  also 
like to pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Joseph Deiss, 
for  his  leadership  and  effective  role  over  the  last  12 
months. 

I would also like to convey my warm and sincere 
congratulations to His Excellency Ban Ki-moon on his 
re-election  to  serve  our  Organization  as  its  Secretary-
General  for  another  term.  My  Government  would  like 
to  put  on  record  its  appreciation  for  his  firm  and 
capable leadership. 

Just  two  months  ago  this Assembly  admitted  by 
acclamation  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan  as  the 
193rd Member of the United Nations. Malta is proud to 
have been one of the Member States co-sponsoring the 
resolution  that  ushered  the  new  nation-State  of  the 
Republic of South Sudan into the world community of 
nations (resolution 65/308). 

Throughout the 12 months that have passed since 
we  last  gathered  here  in  this  Assembly,  we  have  all 
been  witness  to  the  continuing  upheavals  and  crises 
resulting from the strife, poverty and social inequalities 
that  unfortunately  persist  in  many  parts  of  the  world. 
This 
food 
insecurity, which in turn is exacerbated by the drought 
and  famine  that  threaten  the  survival  of  millions  of 
people, particularly in Somalia and the rest of the Horn 
of Africa. 
Malta  has  long  recognized  the  difficulties  facing 

countries  in  the  Horn  of Africa  and  has  directed  most 
of  its  development  and  humanitarian  aid  to  them 
through  development  projects.  The  participation  of 
Maltese  non-governmental  organizations  (NGOs)  in 
implementing 
in 
enabling  Malta  to  help  relieve  some  of  the  most 
pressing needs. My Government has also answered the 
call of the United Nations for financial contributions to 
assist in alleviating the sufferings of people in the Horn 
situation  has  been  compounded  by 
those  projects  has  been  pivotal 
to 
by 
critical 
achieve 
areas,  notwithstanding 
of Africa. This we did through the Central Emergency 
Response Fund. 

It is a matter of concern, however, that only four 
years  remain  to  meet  the  goals  that  we  unanimously 
the  Millennium  Declaration  of  2000 
agreed, 
in 
(resolution 
55/2), 
2015.  We 
acknowledge, of course, that progress has been made in 
some 
continuing 
adversities. But we are still not there.  

Within its limited means, Malta has been able to 
financially  assist  and  support  NGOs  and  interested 
individuals to carry out projects in developing and least 
developed  countries.  Over  the  past  19  months,  these 
projects  have 
included  building  schools,  clinics, 
centres  for  persons  with  disabilities,  social  housing, 
and  extensions  at  hospitals  in  various  countries  in 
Africa, as well as in Central and South America. 

My Government continues to ask the membership 
of this Organization to consider the case for assistance 
in dealing with the influx of illegal immigrants who are 
continuing to reach Malta as a result of the situation in 
Libya  and  North  Africa.  We  continue  to  call  for 
international  solidarity  and  burden-sharing  in  dealing 
with  this  phenomenon.  It  is  also  our  hope  that  the 
European  Union’s  Asylum  Support  Office,  which 
opened in Malta in June, will contribute to the task of 
streamlining  asylum  policies  in  the  European  Union 
and its member States and improve cooperation among 
the  authorities.  In  that  context,  may  I  express  the 
appreciation  of  the  Government  of  Malta  for  the 
assistance  we  have  received  so  far  from  a  number  of 
European  States  and  the  United  States  of  America  in 
the resettlement process. 

The  Mediterranean,  which  links  Europe,  Africa 
and  the  Middle  East,  has  not  been  spared  the  many 
challenges  and  difficulties  facing  other  parts  of  the 
world.  It  is,  however,  also  seeing  the  birth  of  hope  in 
the form of a new political and social reality as a result 
of the sacrifices being made by the peoples of Tunisia, 
Egypt, Libya and Syria as they strive to take back the 
political  leadership  of  their  countries.  Malta  salutes 
these brave people. 
As  we  heard  a  few  minutes  ago  from  His 

Excellency Mr. Jibreel, who spoke on behalf of Libya, 
these  are  turbulent  times  for  Libya,  a  crucial  and 
momentous  point  in  the  history  of  the  Libyan  people. 
During  this  time,  Malta,  which  over  the  course  of  its 
the 
history  has 
“nurse  of 
earned 
the 
title 
50 

11-51360 
relief 
efforts 
by 
intergovernmental 


Mediterranean”,  has  also  been  serving  as  a  safe 
harbour,  where  thousands  have  found  refuge  and 
assistance.  

As  a  Member  of  this  esteemed  Organization,  of 
the  European  Union  and  of  the  international  contact 
group on Libya, my Government has provided, over the 
past  several  months,  a  humanitarian  hub  for  the 
evacuation of nearly 20,000 people, medical assistance 
and 
and 
non-governmental organizations, including such United 
Nations agencies as the World Food Programme. Malta 
is  proud  of  this  role,  which  it  continues  to  play  in 
alleviating  hardships,  particularly  those  of  the  Libyan 
people, to this very day. 

As a result of the courage, vision and tenacity of 
its people, Libya is today on the threshold of assuming 
its  place  in  the  community  of  free  and  democratic 
nations.  The  approach  taken  by  the  Libyan  National 
Transitional  Council  (NTC)  over  these  recent,  highly 
charged  weeks  has  undoubtedly  enhanced  its  standing 
and  legitimacy. We  welcome  the  NTC’s  determination 
to  ensure  that  justice,  and  not  vengeance,  will  be 
pursued by these brave people. It is important that the 
process of national reconciliation take hold as soon as 
possible  and  that  it  be  underpinned  by  the  fullest 
respect for the human rights and fundamental freedoms 
of all segments of the population. 

this 
opportunity to join others in welcoming the delegation 
of  Libya  as  the  new  and  rightful  representatives  of 
Libya to the United Nations and in this Assembly. 

The  next  few  months  will  be  a  major  challenge 
for  the  international  community  and  the  people  of 
Libya alike. At this defining moment the Libyan people 
deserve  the  fullest  international  solidarity  on  the 
political, 
fronts.  My 
Government supports United Nations leadership in the 
international  community’s  programme  of  action  and 
endorses the three fundamental principles under which 
the United Nations intends to operate: Libyan national 
ownership,  rapid  response  and  delivery  and,  lastly, 
effective coordination. Close coordination, in particular 
with the European Union, which we believe to be a key 
player  in  post-conflict  assistance  and  support,  will  be 
especially crucial in this scenario. 

every 
encouragement  as  they  embark  on  the  reforms  ahead. 
Democratic  transition  processes  need  to  be  sustained, 
Allow  me,  at 
and  Tunisia 
economic 
juncture, 
financial 
to 
take 
deserve 
Egypt 
also 
this 
and 
A/66/PV.22
least 
is  a  crucial  element 
including  from  the  economic  perspective.  A  holistic 
in  maximizing 
approach 
international  endeavours,  not 
to  stimulate 
economic growth. Democracy stands a better chance of 
flourishing  if  there  is  economic  development  and 
tangible  improvement  in  living  standards  enjoyed  by 
the entire population. 

At a time when people in the Middle East, North 
Africa  and  beyond  have  embarked  on  a  new  path 
towards freedom, dignity and prosperity, we must also 
invest our  efforts and determination to fulfil the long-
sought  aspirations  of  the  Palestinian  people.  The 
dramatic  developments  unfolding  in  the  Arab  world 
make  progress  on  the  Israeli-Palestinian  track  even 
more urgent than before.  

Malta  was  heartened  by,  and  welcomed,  the 
speech of President Obama last May, in which he laid 
out the foundation for future negotiations and outlined 
a comprehensive vision for peace between Israelis and 
Palestinians.  The 
resumption  of  meaningful  and 
sustainable  negotiations  seemed,  at  the  time,  to  be 
within reach. 
Unfortunately,  that  was  not  to  be.  The  time 

frames  set  by  the  international  community  for  the 
establishment of a Palestinian State are now with us. A 
political  stalemate  persists,  despite  the  fact  that  from 
an 
for 
statehood  have  been  successfully  completed.  The 
situation on the ground further complicates matters and 
undermines the resumption of negotiations and the goal 
of two viable States living side by side in peace. 

No effort should be spared to break the deadlock 
in  the  Israeli-Palestinian  talks.  Getting  Israelis  and 
Palestinians  back  to  the  negotiating  table  with  the 
political  will  necessary  to  embark  on  meaningful  and 
sustainable  negotiations  must  remain  the  overriding 
goal. Agreement on parameters for negotiations would 
clearly  be  a  step  in  the  right  direction.  In  this  regard, 
Malta  fully  stands  behind  the  efforts  of  the  European 
Union, particularly those of its High Representative for 
Foreign  Affairs  and  Security  Policy,  to  make  this 
happen. 
the 

elements  set  out  in  the  conclusions  adopted  by  the 
Foreign  Affairs  Council  of  the  European  Union  in 
December  2009,  December  2010  and  May  2011 
provide  balanced  parameters  for  the  resumption  of 
negotiations. 
My  Government  strongly  believes 
institutional  perspective, 
the  preparations 
that 
11-51360 

51 

ago, 
Indonesia, 
A/66/PV.22 


Two  weeks  ago,  the  New  York  community  and 
the American  people  were  joined  by  the  international 
community  in  commemorating  the  victims  of  one  of 
the  most  heinous  crimes  committed  in  recent  history. 
We all remember with sadness and sorrow that fateful 
day  of  11  September  2001,  when  the  hand  of  evil 
carried out a terrorist attack on the World Trade Centre 
in downtown New York. The 10 years that have passed 
since  that  tragic  event,  when  nearly  3,000  innocent 
people  met  their  deaths  and  thousands  more  were 
wounded, have not erased the scars or the pain. 

Terrorism continues to respect no frontiers. Many 
States  have  been  and  continue  to  be  the  victims  of 
deadly attacks by terrorists. In Afghanistan, Iraq, India, 
Pakistan,  Russia,  Spain, 
the  United 
Kingdom and China, terrorism has struck with intensity 
and  brutality.  Only  one  month 
another 
reprehensible and deadly attack was carried out, on the 
United  Nations  complex  in  Nigeria.  Malta  strongly 
condemns those cowardly and horrible acts and pledges 
to continue to work with other Member States to ensure 
that  such  criminal  acts  are  not  only  condemned  in 
absolute terms, but also suppressed. 

The  events  unfolding  in  North  Africa  highlight 
that  we  must  continue  to  promote  and  protect  human 
rights across the world. That is a responsibility that our 
present  generation  bears  on  behalf  of 
future 
generations. It was in that spirit that, in my address to 
the  sixty-fourth  session  of  the Assembly  in  2009  (see 
A/64/PV.6),  I  proposed  the  drafting  of  a  universal 
declaration  of  human  responsibilities,  as  the  second 
part  of  a  diptych  to  be  formed  with  the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights.  Such  a  declaration 
would  be  open  for  signature  to  any  Member  State 
wishing to subscribe to it. 

We  have  been  encouraged  to  move  forward  in 
presenting  such  a  draft  declaration  by  a  number  of 
Member  States  that  share  with  us  a  belief  in  the 
growing need to embrace responsibilities and duties in 
the  international  setting.  In  the  light  of  that  positive 
response,  my  Government 
to  call  an 
international gathering in 2012, at the official level but 
with  the  presence  of  experts,  to  examine  the  draft 
declaration that will have been prepared and finalize it 
in  such  a  way  that  it  can  be  opened  for  signature  in 
2012.  Malta  strongly  believes  that  such  a  declaration 
would  strengthen 
that  our  rapidly 
changing world demands. 
the  solidarity 
intends 
that 
shoulder 
to  state 
In  conclusion,  allow  me 
Malta  will  also  continue 

the 
environmental sustainability of our planet is one of the 
priorities of my Government. Malta is working towards 
a  successful  outcome  at  next  year’s  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  in  the  hope 
that it will build further on the commitments agreed at 
the  1992  United  Nations  Conference  on  Environment 
and  Development.  In  that  context,  since  1988,  when 
Malta  put  the  protection  of  climate  for  present  and 
future  generations  on  the  political  agenda  of  the 
Organization,  my  Government  has  worked  to  support 
and endorse efforts that address climate change. Malta 
has  also  made  a  contribution  to  the  Special  Climate 
Change Fund. 

The  coming  12  months  under  the  presidency  of 
Ambassador  Al-Nasser  offer  the  membership  of  the 
Organization  challenging  and  exciting  times.  The 
agenda  of  the  Assembly  is  long  and  demanding.  We 
recognize  that  the  President’s  task  will  not  be  at  all 
easy, and we assure him of our full support. 

its 
international  responsibilities  with  vigour,  commitment 
and determination. We stand ready to work with other 
Member  States  to  make  the  Organization  stronger  and 
better  able  to  tackle  the  global  challenges  facing 
mankind. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Malta  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Lawrence  Gonzi,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic  of  Malta,  was  escorted 
the 
rostrum. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call on His Excellency Mr. Mohamed Kamel Ali Amr, 
Minister  for  Foreign Affairs  of  Egypt,  who  will  speak 
also on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 
Mr. Amr (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): I am pleased 

to  congratulate  the  brotherly  State  of  Qatar  and 
Ambassador Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser personally on 
his election as President of the General Assembly at its 
sixty-six  session.  I  am  confident  that  Mr. Al-Nasser’s 
wise  leadership  of  the  Assembly’s  proceedings  will 
help  us  fulfil  our  ambitions  and  aspirations.  I  also 
congratulate  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-Moon  on  his 
re-election to his second term as he continues to strive 
to realize the purposes and principles of the Charter. 
to 
from 
52 

11-51360 
their  armed 
for  democratic 
I  proudly  stand  before 



the  Assembly  today 
representing Egypt in a new era and with a new face as 
it leaves behind a fading era for one whose features are 
just  emerging,  and  as  it  embarks  on  a  new  phase 
regarded  by  all  Egyptians  as  auspicious  and  full  of 
promise.  The  Egyptian  people  came  out  en  masse  on 
25 January  calling 
reforms  and 
strengthened  respect  for  human  rights,  fundamental 
freedoms  and  social  justice.  The  Egyptian  people 
wanted  to  plant  the  seeds  of  a  brighter  future  deep  in 
the land of reality, for their sake and for the benefit of 
their future generations. 

The people obtained what they sought. They were 
able to impose their word and enforce their will. They 
were  backed  by  the  understanding  and  support  of  the 
Egyptian armed forces, which truly exemplify genuine 
patriotism and unity with the people of our nation. The 
stance  of  our  armed  forces  will  be  remembered  by 
history. It is consistent with their doctrine that they are 
guardians  of  the  nation,  not  of  a  specific  political 
regime,  and  with  an  institution  that  is  first  and 
foremost loyal to the people, who for their part rallied 
around 
their 
appreciation.  

ideal  situation  was  made  possible  by 
circumstances  that  can  rarely  be  repeated  and  that 
enabled the Egyptians to alter the face of their country 
in  a  historic  and  wonderful  way.  Egyptians  wanted  to 
rapidly  catch  up  with  other  countries  that  had  made 
great  strides  in  achieving  political  pluralism  and  the 
alternation  of  power,  in  upholding  and  applying  the 
rule  of  law,  in  relentlessly  fighting  corruption  in  its 
various forms, and in providing equal opportunities to 
their  youth  to  fulfil  their  ambitions  and  aspirations  to 
decent lives. 

I  am  addressing  the  Assembly  today  as  Egypt 
moves forward, determined to complete the transitional 
phase  that  arose  from  that  remarkable  transformative 
change. Over the past few months, and indeed since the 
revolution  took  place,  Egypt  has  witnessed  a  new 
internal dynamic and a wide national debate involving 
all  segments  of  society  and  covering  all  issues  on  the 
national  agenda.  Foremost  on  that  agenda  are  the 
drafting  of  a  new  constitution  and  the  organization  of 
the  upcoming  legislative  and  presidential  elections. 
Those  steps  will  increase  the  prospects  of  success  of 
the  transitional  phase  and  launch  a  sound  political 
process  commensurate  with  the  aspirations  of  the 
people  and  Egypt’s  unique  standing  in  the  region  and 
forces  and  expressed 
That 
A/66/PV.22
worldwide.  It  is  a  process  that  will  culminate  in  the 
handing of power to an elected civilian authority. 

Egypt is honoured to have held the chairmanship 
of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  since  July  2009.  The 
start of this session of the General Assembly coincides 
with  the  commemoration  of  the  fiftieth  year  since  the 
first  summit  of  the  Movement  took  place,  and  to 
celebrate its significant contributions to enhancing our 
international efforts to preserve international peace and 
security  and  achieve  development  for  the  peoples  of 
the world in a changing international environment and 
in the face of multiple challenges. The commemoration 
comes  after  a  series  of  important  events  organized  by 
the  Movement  to  promote  the  greater  involvement  of 
developing countries in the governance of international 
institutions  and  to  ensure  fair  participation  in  the 
process  of  international  norms-setting  and  decision-
making in the political, economic and social fields. 

On  that  basis  and  to  that  end,  the  Egyptian 
chairmanship  of 
the  Movement  has  undertaken 
numerous  activities  to  strengthen  the  Movement’s 
capacity  to  respond  effectively  to  new  and  ongoing 
international changes. The Movement has also played a 
vital  role  in  coordinating  the  positions  of  its  member 
States  on  various  issues  on  the  international  agenda, 
including  those  related  to  disarmament,  collective 
security,  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations,  and  the 
promotion  of 
ideals  and  values  of 
democracy and respect for human rights. 
During its chairmanship of the Movement, Egypt 

has  sought 
the  Joint  Coordinating 
Committee of the Group of 77 and China. In the light 
of  an  international  work  agenda  loaded  with  issues, 
ideas and initiatives, we resolved to restore the issue of 
development  in  its  various  dimensions  as  the  top 
priority of the United Nations, and together we adopted 
a  number  of  important  initiatives  in  the  fields  of  food 
security,  the  empowerment  of  women  and  the  fight 
against human trafficking. We will pursue those efforts 
until we hand over the chairmanship of the Movement 
in the summer of 2012 to the country chairing it next. 

the 
Non-Aligned Movement for the historic struggle of the 
brotherly  Palestinian  people  to  regain  their  legitimate 
rights,  for  the  efforts  made  towards  declaring  the 
establishment  of  the  independent  State  of  Palestine, 
with East Jerusalem as its capital, and for its admission 
as a full Member of the United Nations. I also call on 
the  support  of 
reiterate  here 
international 
reinforce 
to 
I 
today 
11-51360 

53 
to 
respond 
positively 
to 
inflicted  on  Africa  as  a  result  of 
A/66/PV.22 

the countries that have not yet recognized the State of 
Palestine to do so as a contribution to the pursuit of a 
just,  lasting  and  comprehensive  settlement  of  the 
Middle East conflict based on the two-State solution. 

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  believes  that  there 
is a pressing need for a comprehensive and substantial 
reform of the United Nations in order to strengthen its 
ability 
international 
challenges, to meet to the aspirations of peoples, and to 
address the radical changes that have altered the shape 
and composition of the international community so that 
the United Nations may become a true reflection of the 
realities of today’s world. 

Such  reform  will  not  be  achieved  unless  the 
Security  Council  is  reformed  and  becomes  more 
representative, more transparent and more reflective of 
the  democratic  nature  of  global  action.  Inevitably, 
major  steps  must  be  taken  to  end  the  monopoly  of 
permanent  members  over  the  decision-making  process 
in  the  Council  and  to  put  an  end  to  the  historical 
injustice 
its 
non-representation 
the  permanent  membership 
category, as well as its inadequate representation in the 
non-permanent  membership  category,  despite  Member 
States’ growing support for the African position. In the 
same  context,  States  members  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement  demand 
to 
revitalize  the  role  of  the  General  Assembly  and  to 
strengthen  the  role  of  the  Economic  and  Social 
Council. 

the  Non-Aligned 
Movement  also  reaffirm  the  need  for  the  international 
community to support the work of developing countries 
to 
their  development  plans  aimed  at 
achieving the Millennium Development Goals, through 
an enabling international climate that bolsters efforts to 
realize 
social 
development,  and  the  fulfilment  by  all  developed 
countries  of 
for  development 
commitments.  It  must  also  support  their  efforts  to 
achieve  more  balanced 
economic 
relations  and  to  establish  a  fairer  international  trade 
system  that  takes  into  account  the  development  needs 
of developing countries. 

We  feel  nothing  but  deep  sorrow  every  time  we 
realize  that,  for  decades,  grave  historic  injustice  has 
been  inflicted  on  a  people  while,  to  date,  the  entire 
world  has  failed  to  end  it.  The  just  question  of 
that  efforts  be  continued 
The  States  members  of 
comprehensive 
international 
implement 
their 
financing 
economic 
and 
in 

a 
request 
yesterday 
submitted 
Palestine  endures  after  two  entire  decades  of  fruitless 
negotiations  without  the  desired  settlement.  To  this 
day,  the  Palestinian  people  remain  deprived  of  their 
legitimate fundamental rights, including their rights to 
freedom,  independence  and  to  establish  their  own 
sovereign State on the basis of the 1967 borders, with 
East Jerusalem as its capital. 
That  is  the  very  State  for  which  the  Palestinian 

President 
for 
membership  of  the  United  Nations  (A/66/371,  annex), 
after serious and just efforts towards a final settlement 
had  stalled  and  any  chance  of  achieving  significant 
progress  in  the  negotiating  process  had  dwindled,  in 
particular  since  the  other  party  insists  on  keeping  the 
negotiating  process  open  forever.  Yesterday,  we  saw 
the  Quartet  fail  yet  again  to  come  up  with  a  balanced 
vision  to  achieve  the  goal  that  we  all  know  and 
approve of, yet differ on how to realize. 

It  is  utterly  absurd  to  carry  on  talking  about  a 
peace  process,  while  Israel  continues,  in  all  comfort 
and  complete  disregard  for  the  objections  of  the 
countries of the world, to construct settlements on the 
Palestinian  territories  in  the  West  Bank,  altering  the 
features  of  occupied  East  Jerusalem,  using  violence 
against  civilians  and  continuing  its  blockade  of  Gaza, 
in violation of the provisions of international law.  

Regrettably,  anyone  with  a  sense  of  justice 
following  the  situation  will  see  in  Israel’s  actions  the 
embodiment of its continuing refusal to admit that the 
only  way  to  achieve  its  security  is  by  reaching  a  just 
settlement  with 
through  serious 
negotiations  based  on  clear  parameters  and  terms  of 
reference  and  a  specific  time  frame.  What  is  urgently 
needed now is to intensify all our efforts in order to put 
an end to the conflict. 

Egypt has been and will remain committed to the 
goal  of  achieving  the  just  and  comprehensive  peace 
that it initiated in the Middle East, and will continue to 
actively  support  it.  Egypt  will  continue  its  efforts  to 
end  the  Israeli  occupation  of  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territories and to resolve all final-status issues within a 
specific,  agreed  and  internationally  guaranteed  time 
frame. Egypt will also maintain its efforts to capitalize 
on the successes achieved in Cairo through the signing 
of  the  Palestinian  reconciliation  agreement,  thereby 
strengthening  Palestinian  unity  and  efforts  to  achieve 
peace. 
the  Palestinians 
54 

11-51360 
the 
two 
though 
However,  even 



Egypt  welcomes  the  presence  of  the  Republic  of 
South Sudan among us today as a State Member of the 
United  Nations.  We  hope  that  that  nascent  State  will 
play a tangible role in regional stability, and that it will 
make  steady  progress  on  the  road  to  development  and 
institution-building.  At  the  same  time,  we  commend 
the  Sudan  for  its  commitment  to  implementing  the 
Comprehensive Peace Agreement and to respecting the 
will  of  the  people  of  the  South  for  an  independent 
State.  

last  year  witnessed 
significant  cooperation  between 
sides, 
outstanding  issues  remain  unsettled.  They  should  be 
resolved  within  a  framework  of  cooperation  and 
goodwill,  which  requires  the  formation  of  a  genuine 
partnership to examine how to address such issues. It is 
no  secret  that  the  Sudan  and  South  Sudan  still  look 
forward to the support of the international community 
for their development and reconstruction efforts so that 
the  Sudan  can  achieve  stability  and  development 
throughout  its  territory,  within  the  context  of  its  unity 
and  territorial  integrity,  and  so  that  South  Sudan  can 
build its State and institutions. On that basis, I reiterate 
Egypt’s  resolve  to  continue  supporting  both  countries 
at all levels. 

On  behalf  of  Egypt,  I  would  also  like  to  pay  a 
deserved  tribute  to  the  revolution  of  the  sisterly  State 
of Tunisia, which expedited dawn of the Arab Spring. I 
also express our solidarity with the brotherly people of 
Libya,  and  congratulate 
the  National  Transitional 
Council  on  its  assumption  of  the  seat  of  Libya  at  the 
United  Nations.  I  salute  its  efforts  to  restore  stability 
and internal peace. I would also like to express Egypt’s 
readiness to provide any support that may contribute to 
the  country’s  reconstruction  efforts  and  help  it  to  get 
through this critical period. 

As  for  the  brotherly  State  of  Yemen,  Egypt 
supports all ongoing efforts to achieve stability and to 
meet the expectations of its people, in accordance with 
mechanisms  to  be  agreed  by  the  people  of  Yemen 
themselves.  If  the  status  quo  remains  unchanged,  that 
will undoubtedly have grave and negative implications 
for the security and stability of the region. 

Many Egyptians are following with great concern 
the serious developments in the brotherly State of Syria 
and the resulting loss of lives and the suffering endured 
by our brothers and sisters there. Today, I would like to 
reiterate  the  position  previously  expressed  by  Egypt 
A/66/PV.22
The 
issues  of  disarmament 
that  the  only  solution  to  the  crisis  in  Syria  lies  in 
ending the violence and engaging in a serious dialogue 
among all parties in a climate of political openness. 

Meanwhile,  I  cannot  fail  to  mention  the  Arab 
Gulf region today and must emphasize that the security 
and  stability  of  the  brotherly Arab  States  of  the  Gulf 
are  of  particular  strategic  importance  to  Egypt.  Given 
the  deep  historical,  societal,  cultural,  political  and 
security ties that bond us with our brothers and sisters 
in  those  countries,  they  are  granted  very  high  priority 
and  attention  in  Egypt’s  foreign  policy.  Egypt  will 
always strive to achieve the stability of that vital region 
of the world. 

and  nuclear 
non-proliferation remain of great importance to Egypt. 
In cooperation with our international partners, we will 
continue  to  urge  nuclear  States  to  undertake  their 
responsibilities,  as  stipulated  in  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), in order 
to safeguard the credibility of that legal instrument and 
its  ensuing  indivisible  principles.  Furthermore,  Egypt 
will spare no effort in pursuing the goal of realizing the 
universality of the NPT, especially in the Middle East, 
where all countries have acceded to the Treaty, with the 
exception of Israel, which is thus delaying the creation 
of a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the region.  

That  is  why  Egypt  attaches  great  importance  to 
the implementation of the four action plans adopted at 
the 2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the NPT, 
and especially the plan relating to the Middle East and 
endorsing  the  holding  of  a  conference  on  the  Middle 
East  next  year.  In  reality,  we  are  concerned  that  a 
facilitator has not yet been appointed or a host country 
selected,  even  though  more  than  16  months  have 
elapsed since the Review Conference ended. 

In  that  context,  I  reiterate  Egypt’s  firm  position 
that  the  right  to  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy 
must  be  linked  to  full  compliance  with  international 
commitments  under  the  Treaty,  which  entails  the  full 
cooperation of all Member States with the International 
Atomic Energy Agency, and avoiding any escalation in 
order to promote non-proliferation efforts in the region. 

Africa  has  always  held  a  privileged  position  and 
unique  priority  status  on  the  Egyptian  foreign  policy 
agenda. Egypt was a consistent and effective partner of 
the  peoples  of  the  continent  in  their  struggle  to  gain 
independence in the 1950s and 1960s. This partnership 
that 
continued  during 
reconstruction  period 
the 
11-51360 

55 
Egypt 
peacebuilding 
peacekeeping, 
is  following  with  concern 
A/66/PV.22 

followed  independence.  Egypt  will  increasingly  work 
to  activate  and  deepen 
its  various  cooperation 
mechanisms  and 
frameworks  with  other  African 
countries  and  strive  to  propel  them  towards  a  new 
dawn,  thereby  contributing  to  the  realization  of  the 
hopes  and  aspirations  of  our  peoples  for  more 
development and increased prosperity. 

Egypt expects the United Nations to maintain its 
efforts  to  support  the  various  components  of  the 
African peace and security architecture and to build the 
institutional  capacity  of  the  continent  in  conflict 
resolution, 
and 
reconstruction.  Those  efforts  should  complement  its 
support  for  the  development  aspirations  and  attempts 
of  the  African  countries  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  in  the  light  of  the  interlinkages 
between peace, security and development challenges in 
Africa. 

the  ever-
deteriorating  situation 
in  Somalia  and  calls  for 
concerted  regional  and  international  efforts  to  put  an 
end  to  the  sufferings  of  the  brotherly  people  of  that 
country  and  to  enable  them  to  achieve  peace  and 
success  in  their  capacity-building  process.  Egypt  once 
again invites external parties to refrain from negatively 
interfering  in  the  internal  affairs  of  Somalia  and  to 
contribute 
the 
humanitarian situation and achieve stability.  

In  this  regard,  Egypt  has  effectively  contributed 
to  international  efforts  to  address  the  problem  of 
drought  in  the  Horn  of  Africa,  eradicate  hunger  and 
provide  food  to  the  affected  populations.  Egypt  also 
contributes to the fight to exterminate piracy along the 
coast of Somalia, given the strategic importance of the 
waters south of the Red and Arabian Seas, especially in 
relation to Egypt’s national security and to the safety of 
navigation in the Suez Canal. 

The  ability  of  the  United  Nations  to  assume  its 
responsibilities depends on our collective will. What is 
required is  resolve based on a robust determination to 
strengthen  our  joint  international  efforts  to  enable  the 
Organization to deal more effectively with the various 
international and regional issues and problems that we 
face.  That  requires  collective  hard  work  to  reinforce 
the principles of democracy within multilateralism and 
to  promote  dialogue  and  understanding  as  the  sole 
means  for  achieving  our  goals,  thereby  advancing  the 
improve 
instead 
efforts 
to 
to 

ideals of humanity and achieving the ambitions of our 
peoples for freedom, justice, peace and security. 



to 
  Address by Mr. Pedro Passos Coelho, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Portugal 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Portugal. 

Mr.  Pedro  Passos  Coelho,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic  of  Portugal,  was  escorted 
the 
rostrum. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I have 

great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Pedro 
Passos  Coelho,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of 
Portugal,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. 
Mr.  Coelho  (Portugal)  (spoke  in  Portuguese; 

English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  am  taking 
the floor for the first time, and I would like to reiterate 
our thanks to the President for his dynamism and stress 
the  importance  of  the  role  of  his  country,  Qatar,  in 
international  diplomacy.  I  would  also  like  to  thank 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon 
and  warmly 
congratulate  him  on  his  new  mandate.  He  can  rest 
assured of Portugal’s full and continued support. 

Recognizing  the  presence  in  our  midst  of  the 
representatives of the Republic of South Sudan, I want 
to express our best wishes to the authorities of that new 
State in building a peaceful and prosperous future. 
reiterate  our  warmest 

congratulations 
the  Libyan 
National Transitional Council. The Libyan people have 
displayed exemplary courage and tenacity in defending 
their  freedom  and  right  to  democratically  chart  their 
own destiny without fear. The new Libya can continue 
to count on Portugal. 

Ten  years  have  passed  since  the  terrorist  attacks 
of  11  September  2001.  I  want  to  pay  tribute,  here  in 
New York, to the people and authorities of the United 
States, and to praise their courage and determination in 
facing  and  overcoming  this  tragedy.  Upholding  our 
spirit of solidarity, we remain fully engaged in fighting 
the scourge of terrorism and in reaching an agreement 
on a United Nations global counter-terrorism treaty as 
soon as possible. 
the  delegation  of 
Allow  me  also 
to 
to 
56 

11-51360 
security 
global 
strengthen  monetary 
scale.  Governments, 



Camões,  the  Portuguese  poet  of  the  sixteenth-
century  maritime  discoveries,  said  that  “the  world  is 
made  of  change,  assuming  always  new  qualities”. 
Identifying the world of change and its new qualities is 
an ongoing challenge that we have to face and respond 
to.  We  live  in  a  historic  time  of  change  and  multiple 
and intertwined challenges, qualities and opportunities. 

In  our  ever-changing  world,  we  now  face  a 
massive  challenge  that  requires  an  urgent  collective 
answer:  the  relaunching  of  growth  and  employment. 
The economic and financial crisis, which started in the 
last decade, underscores the reality of interdependence 
at  the  global  level.  Overcoming  this  crisis  in  a 
sustainable  and  structured  way  is  a  challenge  that  we 
must meet collectively. 
To  that  end,  we  must  correct  macroeconomic 

inequalities, 
and 
rebalance world trade. Economic growth is a multiplier 
for employment at the national and regional levels, and 
depends for the most part on economic coordination on 
a 
international 
organizations,  the  private  sector  and  social  partners 
ought  to  cooperate  in  a  wide-ranging  effort  to  restore 
the  confidence  of  our  citizens  and  companies. 
Prosperity is more than ever an objective that, if jointly 
shared, can be reached by us all. 

In the context of the preparations of the report of 
the  Secretary-General  on  global  economic  governance 
to be submitted to the General Assembly, Portugal has 
advocated  greater  coordination  and  complementarity 
between  the  United  Nations,  the  Group  of  20  and 
relevant regional groupings. We have done so because 
we believe it indispensable to promote the involvement 
of  emerging  economies,  the  private  sector  and  civil 
society  and to enhance their respective  roles in  global 
economic governance. 

The European Union is preparing the foundations 
of  its  economic  Government,  which  is  part  of  the 
European  integration  process.  The  economic  pillar  of 
the economic and monetary union is also making good 
progress.  That  is  good  news  not  only  for  Europe,  but 
also for the rest of the world. Portugal is committed to 
this  endeavour  and 
the  obligations 
undertaken in its economic adjustment programme.  
The  Portuguese  Government  and  people  are 

making 
their 
commitments  to  the  International  Monetary  Fund  and 
the  European  Union.  As  has  been  widely  recognized, 
unprecedented 
to  meeting 
efforts 
to  meet 
A/66/PV.22
effective 
should  be  more 
we  are  moving  quickly  and  resolutely  to  consolidate 
our  public  debt  and  to  implement  structural  reforms 
designed  to  modernize  the  economy  and  promote 
economic growth and employment. We view the crisis 
as an opportunity to adapt our economic model and to 
strengthen the Portuguese economy. 

Last  year  we  asked  the  General  Assembly  to 
show  its  trust  in  us  with  regard  to  our  election  to  the 
Security  Council.  This  year  I  want  to  express  our 
gratitude for the confidence placed in my country, and 
to reiterate Portugal’s firm commitment and attachment 
to  the  values  and  objectives  of  the  United  Nations,  as 
well as to the principles that motivated our candidacy. 
We consider the institutional complementarity between 
the  General Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  to  be 
of  the  utmost  importance,  and  we  believe  that  the 
Council 
and  more 
representative. In the context of United Nations reform, 
we need change; we need to see Brazil and India given 
permanent seats on the Council, and Africa should also 
be included in this enlargement. 

In  this  ever-changing  world,  the  indispensable 
role  of  the  United  Nations  is  reflected  in  the  tireless 
and courageous work of thousands of its staff members 
and  collaborators.  Men  and  women  in  military  and 
police  uniforms  play  a  fundamental  role  in  peace 
operations to protect civilians, prevent the escalation of 
conflict  and  create  the  necessary  space  and  time  for 
political negotiations to bear fruit. 

The Portuguese are deeply proud of participating 
in  this  common  effort.  Our  presence  in  the  field 
represents  one  of  our  main  contributions  to  the 
functioning of an effective multilateralism. Portuguese 
Blue  Helmets  are  deployed 
in  Timor-Leste  and 
Lebanon,  and  make  up  one  of  the  largest  European 
contingents 
peacekeeping 
operations.  They  are  highly  professional  military  and 
police officers who make their country and the United 
Nations proud. 

The  year  2011  started  not  with  winter  but  with 
spring. The  world,  as the poet would say, has  found a 
new  quality,  an  opportunity  for  change  created  by  the 
courage of the Arab peoples who have come together to 
make  their  voices  heard  loud  and  clear,  defending, 
sometimes at the cost of their own lives, the universal 
values  and  aspirations  that  embody  our  community  of 
nations.  Democracy  and  human  rights  are  not  relative 
in  United  Nations 
11-51360 

57 

A/66/PV.22 

values  dependent  on  geography,  ethnicity,  faith  or 
economic development. 

Libya is opening a new chapter in its history — a 
new  era  of  change  and  reconstruction.  The  meeting 
held here earlier this week confirmed the commitment 
of  the  international  community,  led  by  the  United 
Nations,  to  supporting  the  new  authorities  as  they  lay 
the  groundwork  for  a  democratic,  stable,  united  and 
prosperous  Libya.  This  was  the  welcome  spirit  that 
inspired the Security Council’s unanimous adoption of 
resolution 2009 (2011), establishing the United Nations 
Support Mission in Libya. We are determined, both in 
the Council and in the Committee established pursuant 
to resolution  1970 (2011)  concerning the Libyan Arab 
Jamahiriya, which we chair, to continue contributing to 
the successful transition in Libya. 

We  would  also  like  to  see  success  in  the  Middle 
East peace process. Sixty  years have passed  and there 
is no time left for advances and retreats, the status quo, 
or unilateral actions that are prejudicial to negotiations. 
The  recipes,  principles,  concrete  formulas  and  road 
maps  are  all  well  known.  We  do  not  have  to  reinvent 
the  wheel.  Peace  may  be  difficult,  but  it  is  within  the 
reach  of  Palestine,  which  already  embodies  all  the 
characteristics of a State, to which the European Union 
has greatly contributed. Peace in this time of change is 
also within Israel’s reach in the framework of a stable 
relationship and, above all else, security. 

The  recognition  of  a  new  State  naturally  falls  to 
the  responsibility  of  each  State  Member  of  this 
Organization. Portugal has backed the concept that the 
European  Union,  through  its  High  Representative,  in 
the  context  of  the  Quartet  and  in  coordination  with 
other  members  of  the  European  Union  in  the  Security 
Council, has a constructive and decisive role to play in 
this process, which is at a crossroads. Europe can speak 
with  one  voice 
facilitate 
compromise. It should be clear that, just as the creation 
of  a  Palestinian  State  is  a  promise  that  must  be 
honoured, so, too, the security of Israel must be firmly 
guaranteed by the international community. 

the  Palestinian  Authority 
decided to present to the Security Council a request for 
Palestine’s admission to the United Nations as a State. 
This  step  must  be  the  result  and  logical  outcome  of 
negotiations. We therefore understand the request to be 
an expression of interest that will be fulfilled with the 
to  build  bridges  and 
The  President  of 
Until 
in 
commercial 
future 
that 
the  Palestinians 
to 
relationship,  with 
then,  we  are  open 
The  groundbreaking 
the  southern  shore  of 
signing of a peace agreement ending one of the longest 
conflicts of our era. 

to  supporting  an 
enhanced  status  for  Palestine  in  the  United  Nations. 
This  would  be  an  important  step  towards  the  creation 
of a new State, and represent an additional commitment 
by 
the  negotiation  process, 
reinforcing  the  confidence  needed  for  a  definitive  and 
global  peace  agreement  to  be  reached.  Portugal  has  a 
unique sensibility in its dialogue with the Middle East. 
We will use that sensibility and our close relationships 
to assist in finding the only result that is of interest to 
us all: peace. 
transformation  we  are 

witnessing 
the  Arab  world  has  created  new 
opportunities,  first  for  the  peoples  of  the  region,  but 
also for countries such as Portugal that have a deep and 
historic  affinity  with 
the 
Mediterranean  and  the  Gulf  region. We  are  building  a 
common 
involves  a  new  European 
neighbourhood  policy  and  a  renewed  union  for  the 
Mediterranean.  Our  ambition  is  for  a  new  economic 
and 
reinforced 
exchanges  in  the  social  field  and  a  new  democratic 
solidarity,  shared  in  a  spirit  of  mutual  respect  and 
advantage. 

Portugal went through its democratic transition in 
1974.  We  know  how  important  the  support  and 
encouragement of external partners were to us. We are 
ready  and  available  to  share  that  experience  now  as  a 
sign  of  our  support  and  solidarity.  An  important 
element  of  that  experience  was  the  contribution  and 
full  participation,  on  an  equal  footing,  of  Portuguese 
women to the post-revolutionary political process. 
We  should  remain  united  in  our  support  for  the 

transition  processes  and  reforms  under  way  in  the 
Middle  East  and  North  Africa,  and  respond  in  a 
coordinated  manner  to  the  needs  identified  by  our 
partners. I naturally think of Egypt and Tunisia, which 
are  preparing 
to  undertake  free  and  democratic 
elections.  I  am  confident  that  these  two  countries  will 
know how to meet expectations. 
We  note  with  profound  regret,  however,  that 

many innocent people in the region are paying too high 
a  price 
aspirations.  The 
disintegration of the situation in Syria is unacceptable 
and unsustainable. We welcome the action taken by the 
Human  Rights  Council,  but  we  believe  that  the 
for 
their 
legitimate 
58 

11-51360 
A/66/PV.22
the 
the 


Security  Council  should  also  take  a  position  in  this 
regard. And we urge the Syrian Government to end the 
violence  and 
repression  of 
legitimate 
democratic aspirations of its people. 

The  democratic  transition  under  way  in  the 
Middle  East  only  makes  the  impasse  on  the  Iranian 
nuclear issue more evident. It is imperative that Tehran 
understand  that  it  is  time  to  change  and  to  cooperate 
and that this is in its best interests. 

In the face of current global challenges, we need 
a  strong  and  efficient  United  Nations  that  is  able  to 
cooperate closely with other regional and international 
organizations, whose scope of action has deepened and 
broadened  over  recent  years.  Such  cooperation  can  be 
deepened  with 
the  European  Union,  which  only 
recently gained a new legitimacy in the United Nations 
with  the  adoption  of  resolution  65/276,  which  we 
welcome.  But  such  cooperation  should  also  be 
developed with other organizations, such as the African 
Union,  the  League  of Arab  States  and  the  Community 
of  Portuguese-speaking  Countries. That  community  of 
eight nations on four  continents, united  by a language 
spoken by more than 240 million people and counting, 
has  a  strong  vocation  to  strengthen  multilateralism  in 
the service of peace, security and democracy. 

I  would  also  like  to  commend  the  efforts  of  the 
Alliance  of  Civilizations,  a  United  Nations  initiative 
that, under the leadership of a former Portuguese Head 
of  State,  Jorge  Sampaio,  has  contributed  greatly  to 
improving  relations  among  societies  and  communities 
of different backgrounds and to promoting a culture of 
dialogue,  tolerance  and  mutual  understanding  at  the 
global level. 

The  United  Nations  is  us  all  of  us.  We  all  have 
the  responsibility  and  duty  to  preserve  global  peace 
and security and to defend human rights in accordance 
with  the  Charter.  The  promotion  and  protection  of 
human  rights,  as  I  have  already  mentioned,  is  one  of 
the  priorities  of  Portugal’s  foreign  policy,  in  line  with 
the  other  values  expressed  in  the  United  Nations 
Charter.  We  take  an  active  position  in  this  field, 
denouncing  situations  where  civil  and  political  rights 
are  being  violated  and 
social 
the  neediest  and  most  vulnerable  
aspirations  of 

recognizing 
the 


their  participation 
the  Special  Representative  of 
important  United  Nations  human 
populations of our planet, as reflected in our initiatives 
on economic, social and cultural rights. 

I would also like to emphasize the importance we 
attach to the promotion and protection of the rights of 
the  child,  as  well  as  the  human  rights  of  women, 
including 
in  political  decision-
making.  That  position  is  the  outgrowth  of  a  broad 
consensus  about  and  great  interest  in  human  rights  in 
our  country.  It  is  no  coincidence  that  the  United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  and  two 
other 
rights 
officials — 
the 
Secretary-General  for  Violence  against  Children  and 
the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  human  right  to  safe 
drinking water and sanitation, both of them women — 
are Portuguese. 

It  is  in  that  spirit  that  we  decided  to  present  our 
candidature  for  the  Human  Rights  Council  for  the 
biennium  2015-2017.  We  participated  actively  in  the 
creation of that organ, of which we have not yet been a 
member. We are convinced that our participation in that 
body  would  serve  as  a  bulwark  in  the  defence  of  our 
shared principles. 

reiterating  and 
Allow  me 
emphasizing  Portugal’s  commitment  to  international 
law  and  to  the  peaceful  resolution  of  conflicts,  values 
that  guide  our  actions  in  and  out  of  the  Security 
Council,  the  other  organs  of  the  United  Nations, 
international organizations and our bilateral relations. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Portugal  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Pedro  Passos  Coelho,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic  of  Portugal,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
  The meeting rose at 3:15 p.m. 
to  conclude  by 
11-51360 

59 
