
A/66/PV.53
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

53rd plenary meeting 
Thursday, 10 November 2011, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 





  The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m. 

Agenda item 113 (continued)
Election to fill vacancies in principal organs 
  (c)  Election of five members of the International 






Court of Justice 
  Memorandum by the Secretary-General 
(A/66/182) 
  List of candidates (A/66/183) 

  Curricula vitae (A/66/184) 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  This  morning, 

the  General  Assembly  will  proceed  to  the  election  of 
five members of the International Court of Justice for a 
nine-year  term  of  office  commencing  on  6  February 
2012.  The  terms  of  office  of  the  following  judges 
expire  on  5  February  2012:  Ms.  Xue  Hanqin  (China), 
Mr.  Abdul  G.  Koroma  (Sierra  Leone),  Mr.  Hisashi 
Owada  (Japan),  Mr.  Bruno  Simma  (Germany)  and 
Mr. Peter Tomka (Slovakia). 

I should like to draw the attention of the General 
Assembly  to  the  following  documents  relating  to  this 
election. Document A/66/182 contains a memorandum 
by the Secretary-General on the current composition of 
the Court and on the procedures to be followed in the 
General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  with 
regard to the election. Document A/66/183 contains the 
list  of  candidates  nominated  by  national  groups.  And 
document  A/66/184  contains  the  curriculum  vitae  of 
the candidates nominated by national groups. 
In 
the 
that  connection, 

the  Legal  Counsel  has 
informed  me  that,  after  the  established  deadline  for 
nominating  candidates, 
following  additional 
submissions  were  received  from  several  national 
groups,  all  of  which  relate  to  the  candidates  already 
nominated  by  other  national  groups  appearing  in 
documents A/66/182, A/66/183 and A/66/184: Tsvetana 
Kamenova  (Bulgaria)  has  been  nominated  also  by  the 
national  group  of  Malta;  Abdul  G.  Koroma  (Sierra 
Leone) has been nominated also by the national group 
of  Malta;  Mr.  Hisashi  Owada  (Japan)  has  been 
nominated also by the national groups of Colombia, the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, El Salvador, India, 
Liechtenstein,  Malta  and  Romania;  Julia  Sebutinde 
(Uganda)  has  been  nominated  also  by  the  national 
group  Romania;  Peter  Tomka  (Slovakia)  has  been 
nominated also by the national groups of Liechtenstein 
and  Romania;  and  Xue  Hanqin  (China)  has  been 
nominated  also  by  the  national  groups  of  India, 
Liechtenstein and Romania.  

This election will be held in accordance with the 
Statute  of  the  Court,  in  particular Articles  2  to  4  and 
7 to 12, as well as rules 150 and 151 of the Assembly’s 
rules of procedure.  

I  should  like  to  confirm  that,  at  this  time,  the 
General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  will 
proceed,  independently  of  one  another,  to  elect  five 
members  of 
in 
accordance with Article 8 of the Statute. According to 
Article 2 of the Statute, members of the Court are to be 
elected,  regardless  of  their  nationality,  from  among 
persons  of  high  moral  character  who  possess  the 
the  vacancies 
the  Court 
to  fill 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-58742 (E) 
*1158742* 


to 
in 
in 
in 
interpret 
A/66/PV.53 

qualifications required in their respective countries for 
appointment  to  the  highest  judicial  offices,  or  are 
jurisconsults of recognized competence in international 
law. Article 9 requires electors to bear in mind not only 
that  the  person  to  be  elected  should  individually 
possess the qualifications required, but also that, in the 
body as a whole, the representation of the main forms 
of civilization and of the principal legal systems of the 
world should be assured. 

In accordance with Article 10, paragraph 1, of the 
Statute  of  the  Court,  those  candidates  who  obtain  an 
absolute  majority  of  votes  both 
the  General 
Assembly  and 
the  Security  Council  shall  be 
considered  as  elected.  The  consistent  practice  of  the 
United  Nations  has  been 
the  words 
“absolute  majority”  as  meaning  a  majority  of  all 
electors,  whether  or  not  they  vote  or  are  allowed  to 
vote.  The  electors  in  the  General  Assembly  are  all 
193 Member  States.  Accordingly,  for 
the  present 
election, 97 votes constitute an absolute majority in the 
General Assembly. 

the  General  Assembly  will 
The  electors 
indicate the candidates for whom they wish to vote by 
placing  crosses  against  their  names  on  the  ballot 
papers.  Each  elector  may  vote  for  not  more  than  five 
candidates  on  the  first  ballot  and,  on  subsequent 
ballots,  if  any,  for  five  less  the  number  of  candidates 
who have already obtained absolute majorities. 

At  the  915th  plenary  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly,  on  16  November  1960,  a  procedural 
discussion was held as to whether rule 94 — then rule 
96 — of the rules of procedure of the Assembly should 
be  applied  in  elections  to  the  International  Court  of 
Justice. That rule lays down a procedure for restricted 
ballots  in  the  event  that,  after  the  first  ballot,  the 
requisite  number  of  candidates  have  not  obtained  the 
required  majority.  By  47  votes 
to  27,  with 
25 abstentions, the Assembly decided that the rule did 
not  apply  to  elections  to  the  Court  and  proceeded  to 
elect the requisite number of candidates by a series of 
unrestricted  ballots.  That  decision  has  been  followed 
consistently. 

Accordingly, pursuant to rule 151 of the rules of 
procedure  of  the  Assembly,  if  in  the  first  ballot  the 
number of candidates obtaining an absolute majority is 
less  than  five,  a  second  ballot  will  be  held  and 
balloting  will  continue  at  the  same  meeting  until  five 
candidates  have  obtained  the  required  majority.  Only 
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to 
when  five  candidates  have  obtained  the  required 
majority  in  the  Assembly  will  the  President  of  the 
Assembly notify the President of the Security Council 
of  the  names  of  the  five  candidates.  Accordingly  to 
Article  11  of  the  Statute,  if,  upon  comparison  of  the 
respective lists of names that have obtained an absolute 
majority  in  the  General Assembly  and  in  the  Security 
Council,  fewer  than  five  candidates  have  been  thus 
elected,  the  Assembly  and  the  Council  will  proceed, 
again  independently  of  one  another,  at  a  second 
meeting  —  and,  if  necessary,  a  third  meeting  —  to 
elect  candidates  by  further  ballots  for  seats  remaining 
vacant,  the  results  again  being  compared  after  the 
required  number  of  candidates  have  obtained  an 
absolute majority in each organ. 

those procedures at this election? 
It was so decided. 

The President (spoke in Arabic): I should like to 

remind  representatives  that,  pursuant  to  rule  88  of  the 
rules of procedure,  


“After  the  President  has  announced  the 
beginning  of  voting,  no  representative  shall 
interrupt the voting except on a point of order in 
connection with the actual conduct of the voting.” 
Any  announcements, 
those  concerning 
withdrawals of candidatures, should therefore be made 
prior to the commencement of the voting process, that 
is to say, before the announcement of the beginning of 
the voting process. 

I  should  like  to  seek  the  usual  cooperation  of 
representatives  during  the  time  of  the  conduct  of  the 
election.  Please  be  reminded  that  during  the  voting 
process,  all  campaigning  should  cease  in  the  General 
Assembly Hall. That means in particular that once the 
election has begun, no more campaign material can be 
distributed inside the Hall. All representatives are also 
requested  to  remain  at  their  seats  so  that  the  voting 
process  can  proceed  in  an  orderly  manner.  I  thank 
members for their cooperation. 

papers will now be distributed.  

the 
representatives  seated  directly  behind  country  name 
plates.  Representatives  are  requested  to  use  only  the 
ballot  papers  now  being  distributed.  Only 
those 
We  shall  now  begin  the  voting  process.  Ballot 
Ballot  papers  will  only  be  given 
including 
to 
2 

11-58742 


candidates  whose  names  appear  on  the  ballot  papers 
are  eligible.  Representatives  will  indicate  the  five 
candidates  for  whom  they  wish  to  vote  by  placing 
crosses to the left of their names on the ballot papers. 
Ballot  papers  on  which  more  than  five  names  are 
marked  will  be  considered  invalid.  Votes  may  be  cast 
only  for  those  whose  names  appear  on  the  ballot 
papers. 

At the invitation of the President, Ms. Bonkoungou 
(Burkina  Faso),  Ms.  Shiolashvili 
(Georgia), 
Ms. Mannion  (Ireland),  Mrs.  Azmee  (Malaysia), 
Ms.  Martínez 
and  Ms. Kloeg 
(Mexico) 
(Netherlands) acted as tellers. 
A vote was taken by secret ballot. 
Ms.  Kamara  (Liberia),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  10.35  a.m.  and 
resumed at 11.40 a.m. 
The Acting President: The result of the voting is 




as follows: 























Number of ballot papers: 

Number of invalid ballots:   

Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 

Number of members voting: 
Required absolute majority: 
Number of votes obtained: 








Mr. Hisashi Owada (Japan)  

Mr. Giorgio Gaja (Italy) 
Ms. Xue Hanqin (China) 

Mr. Peter Tomka (Slovakia) 
Ms. Julia Sebutinde (Uganda) 
Mr. Abdul G. Koroma (Sierra Leone) 
Ms. Tsvetana Kamenova (Bulgaria) 
El Hadji Mansour Tall (Senegal) 
192 
0 
192 
0 
192 
97 
170 
164 
162 
149 
109 
88 
73 
38 
A/66/PV.53
in 
I  have  communicated  the  result  of  the  voting  to 
I have also received a letter from the President of 
The  following  five  candidates  have  obtained  an 

absolute  majority 
the  General  Assembly: 
Mr. Giorgio  Gaja,  Mr.  Hisashi  Owada,  Ms.  Julia 
Sebutinde, Mr. Peter Tomka and Ms. Xue Hanqin.  

the President of the Security Council.  

the Security Council, which reads: 


“I have the honour to inform you that at the 
6651st  meeting  of  the  Security  Council,  held  on 
10  November  2011,  for  the  purpose  of  electing 
five members of the International Court of Justice 
for  a  term  of  office  beginning  on  6  February 
2012,  Mr.  Giorgio  Gaja,  Mr.  Abdul  G.  Koroma, 
Mr.  Hisashi  Owada,  Mr.  Peter  Tomka  and 
Ms. Xue Hanqin obtained an absolute majority of 
votes.” 

As  a  result  of  the  independent  voting  in  the 
Security  Council  and  in  the  General  Assembly,  the 
following  four  candidates  have  obtained  an  absolute 
majority in both organs: Mr. Giorgio Gaja, Mr. Hisashi 
Owada,  Mr.  Peter  Tomka  and  Ms.  Xue  Hanqin.  They 
are therefore duly elected members of the International 
Court  of  Justice 
term 
commencing on 6 February 2012. I should like to take 
this  opportunity  to  extend  to  them  the  congratulations 
of the Assembly on their election.  

In accordance with the provisions of Article 11 of 
the  Statute  of  the  Court,  it  will  be  necessary  to  hold 
another meeting to fill the remaining vacancy.  

I  propose  that  the  present  meeting  should  be 
adjourned  and  that  the  54th  meeting  should  be  held 
immediately to vote on the remaining vacancy. 

  The meeting rose at 11.45 a.m. 
to  serve  for  a  nine-year 
11-58742 

3 
