
A/66/PV.41
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

41st plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 25 October 2011, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 





  The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m. 




Agenda item 41 
Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/66/114) 

  Draft resolution (A/66/L.4) 


Mr.  Limeres  (Argentina):  I  have  the  honour  to 
deliver this statement on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China on agenda item 41, entitled “Necessity of ending 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America  against 
Cuba”. 

At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  welcome  the 
presence  of  the  Minister  for  Foreign Affairs  of  Cuba, 
Mr. Bruno Eduardo Rodríguez Parrilla. 

the 
Government of the United States related to a relaxation 
of  certain  restrictions  on  travel  and  the  transfer  of 
remittances had given many of us hope that steps were 
starting to be taken in the right direction. Nevertheless, 
one  year  has  since  passed  and  it  is  clear  that  those 
measures  have  had  a  very  limited  effect  and  that  the 
embargo is still in place. 

In  fact,  the  embargo  remains  largely  unchanged 
and continues to impose severe economic and financial 
restrictions  on  Cuba.  The  embargo  has  caused,  and 
continues  to  cause,  a  high  degree  of  economic  and 
the  announcements  made  by 
Last  year, 
impact  of 
Furthermore, 
the  deepening 
to  further  aggravating 
financial  damage,  which  has  a  negative  impact  on  the 
well-being of the people of Cuba. 

the 
ongoing  global  economic  and  financial  crisis  and  the 
continued  embargo  by  the  Government  of  the  United 
States  will  contribute 
the 
hardships  of  the  people  of  Cuba.  Moreover,  the 
embargo  frustrates  efforts  towards  the  achievement  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  negatively 
affects regional cooperation in that area. 

The Group of 77 and China states once again, as 
it  has  on  many  previous  occasions,  that  the  embargo 
against  Cuba  contravenes  the  fundamental  norms  of 
international  law,  international  humanitarian  law,  the 
United  Nations  Charter  and  the  rules  and  principles 
governing  peaceful 
Its 
continued  imposition  violates  the  principles  of  the 
sovereign  equality  of  States  and  of  non-intervention 
and non-interference in each other’s domestic affairs. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  has  always  been 
firmly  against  the  embargo.  At  the  second  South 
Summit, held in Doha from 12 to 16 June 2005, heads 
of State and Government of the Group of 77 and China 
firmly  rejected  the  imposition  of  laws  and  regulations 
with  extraterritorial  impact  and  all  other  forms  of 
coercive  economic  measures, 
including  unilateral 
sanctions  against  developing  countries.  They  called 
upon  the  Government  of  the  United  States  to  put  an 
end 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  against  Cuba,  which,  in  addition  to  being 
unilateral  and  contrary  to  the  United  Nations  Charter 
relations  among  States. 
to 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-56249 (E) 
*1156249* 

to  eliminate 
them 
the  freedom  of 
therefore  called  on 
A/66/PV.41 

and international law —  and to the principle of good-
neighbourliness  —  causes  huge  material  loses  and 
economic damage to the people of Cuba. 

Today,  the  Group  of  77  and  China  would  like  to 
reiterate  once  again  its  long-standing  position  on  this 
important matter by quoting the ministerial declaration 
of  the  thirty-fifth  annual  meeting  of  our  Ministers  for 
Foreign  Affairs,  held  here  at  Headquarters  on 
23 September: 

“The  Ministers  firmly  reject  the  imposition 

laws  and  regulations  with  extraterritorial 
of 
impact and all other forms of coercive economic 
measures,  including  unilateral  sanctions  against 
developing  countries,  and  reiterate  the  urgent 
need 
immediately.  They 
emphasize  that  such  actions  not  only  undermine 
the  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  and  international  law,  but  also 
severely 
threaten 
trade  and 
investment.  They 
the 
international  community  neither  to  recognize 
these  measures  nor  apply  them.”  (A/66/388, 
annex, para. 39) 

We recall that last year 187 Member States voted 
in  favour  of  the  draft  resolution  introduced  by  Cuba 
(resolution  65/6).  That  number  represented  a  large 
majority of the international community demanding the 
end  to  the  five-decades-old  embargo  and  to  fully 
adhere 
the  principles  of  mutual  respect  and 
non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  a  sisterly 
country. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  is  committed  to 
working  towards  a  better  world  for  all  in  which 
nations,  large  or  small,  can  coexist  peacefully.  The 
achievement  of  such  peaceful  coexistence  among 
nations  requires  adherence  by  all  nations  to  the 
principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  the 
peaceful  conduct  of  relations  among  nations.  The 
achievement  of  such  peaceful  coexistence  among 
nations requires adherence by all nations to the rule of 
law, including international law. 

The  Group  of  77  and  China  will  again  fully 
support  draft  resolution A/66/L.4  against  the  embargo 
and urges all Member States to do so as well. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Before  giving 

the  floor  to  the  next  speaker,  given  the  long  list  of 
speakers inscribed on my list, I should like to propose 
to 

that the list of speakers for the debate on this item now 
be  closed.  Unless  I  hear  any  objection,  I  shall  take  it 
that the Assembly agrees to this proposal. 
It was so decided. 

Mr.  Abdelaziz  (Egypt):  I  have  the  pleasure  to 

address  the  General Assembly  today  on  behalf  of  the 
120 Members of the United Nations that are members 
of the Non-Aligned Movement.  

I would like first to extend our deep condolences 
to the Government and people of Turkey for the tragic 
loss  of  life  as  a  result  of  the  devastating  earthquake 
that struck the eastern part of Turkey two days ago. We 
extend  our  condolences  also  to  the  Government  and 
people of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia on the passing 
away  of  His  Royal  Highness  Prince  Sultan  Bin 
Abdulaziz Al-Saud.  

Allow  me  now  to  extend  a  warm  welcome  to 
Mr. Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of Cuba, and to express to him the Movement’s 
full support and solidarity. 

It has been 12 months since we last gathered here 
in the Hall to consider and debate the important agenda 
item  “Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial 
and financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America  against  Cuba”.  Those  12  extraordinary 
months  have  witnessed  unexpected  and  profound 
changes in many parts of the world, all sparked by an 
entrenched  longing  for  justice  that  has  been  for  too 
long  unduly  denied.  It 
the  Movement’s  deep 
conviction  that  the  application  of  the  principle  of 
justice should not be confined to the national level but 
should  also  be  extended  to  the  international  arena.  It 
should  not  only  govern  relations  between  individuals 
but also between Member States. 
Did the peoples of the United Nations not declare 

in 
to 
“establish  conditions  under  which  justice  …  can  be 
maintained”? It is for that reason that the Non-Aligned 
Movement finds it utterly troubling that to this day the 
screws  of  an  unfair  and  unwarranted  blockade,  which 
has been in force for over half a century, are still being 
tightened against one of the Movement’s members, and 
that  unilateral  measures  and  coercive  laws  are  still 
being adopted and implemented against it. 

The Movement unequivocally rejects such blatant 
violations of multilateralism, which run counter to the 
principles of the United Nations Charter and the norms 
its  Charter’s  preamble 
their  determination 
is 
2 

11-56249 
once 
in 
international 
incurred  as  a  result  of 


of 
law,  respect  for  sovereignty  and 
territorial  integrity,  good  neighbourliness  and  mutual 
trust  —  and  the  Movement  calls  for  their  immediate 
end. We appeal to all States to continue to refrain from 
recognizing  such  measures  or  laws  and  to  support  the 
claim  of  affected  countries  to  compensation  for  any 
damage 
this  breach  of 
internationally agreed norms of conduct. 

again 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement 
reiterates its call for full respect by all Member States 
of  the  crucial  principle  of  justice  in  international 
relations.  The  Movement  also  reaffirms  its  steadfast 
commitment  to  uphold,  preserve  and  promote  all 
purposes  and  principles  enshrined 
the  United 
Nations  Charter,  as  well  as  to  ensure  the  continued 
viability  of  all  the  provisions  of  international  law, 
which  together  form  the  core  of  our  multilateral  work 
and inspire our collective efforts to maintain peace and 
security,  achieve 
inclusive  economic  growth  and 
sustainable  development  and  ensure  full  respect  for 
human rights and fundamental freedoms. 

The United States Administration  has in the past 
claimed  that  it  would  reach  out  to  the  Cuban  people 
and  engage  with  them.  Yet  those  once-encouraging 
into 
words  have  regrettably  not  been 
concrete  actions.  The  punitive  measures 
imposed 
against the whole Cuban nation persist, and with them 
the enduring suffering of its brave people. 

The  direct  and  indirect  damage  caused  by  the 
embargo  against  Cuba  are  enormous.  They  affect  all 
crucial  sectors  of  the  economy,  including  those  most 
vital 
the  Cuban  people 
themselves,  such  as  public  health,  nutrition  and 
agriculture,  as  well  as  banking,  trade,  investment  and 
tourism.  It  is  true  that  Cuba  has  made  significant 
progress in many areas, especially in education, health 
care and gender equality — and we salute the Cubans 
for  what  they  have  achieved  so  far  despite  the  huge 
difficulties they encounter — yet we stress once again 
that 
impede 
socio-economic  advances  and  creates  unnecessary 
economic hardship. 

this  unilateral  blockade  has  an 
extended  negative  effect  on  companies  and  citizens 
from  third  countries,  thereby  violating  their  sovereign 
rights. The  Non-Aligned  Movement  reiterates  its  deep 
concern  at  the  harmful  impact  on  other  countries  of 
widening  the  extra-territorial  nature  of  the  embargo, 
the  well-being  of 
imposed  continues 
the  embargo 
for 
Moreover, 
translated 
to 
A/66/PV.41
to  suffer  when 
which we consider an added argument in favour of the 
prompt elimination of those unfounded sanctions. 

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  is  astounded  as  to 
why  such  an  unjust  and  unfounded  embargo  is  still 
maintained  when  187  Member  States  of  the  United 
Nations  voted  last  year  in  favour  of  resolution  65/6, 
calling for its immediate lifting — the nineteenth such 
resolution to be adopted by the Assembly on the issue. 
Why  are  such  punitive  measures  maintained  when 
evidence  indicates  that  they  hinder  Cuba’s  efforts  to 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and 
achieve 
sustainable  development?  Why  should 
the  Cuban 
people  continue 
international 
the 
community  is  almost  unanimous  in  its  conviction  that 
the cause of their anguish is unjustified and illegal? 

In  reality,  there  are  no  credible  answers  to  these 
questions, because the  embargo imposed against Cuba 
is  simply  politically  and  economically  untenable  and, 
above all, morally indefensible. It is for  those reasons 
that  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  once  again  urges  the 
United  States  of  America  to  immediately  and  fully 
comply  with  all  General Assembly  resolutions  calling 
for an immediate end to the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed against Cuba and, once and 
for  all,  to  listen  to  the  will  of  the  overwhelming 
majority  of  the  international  community,  which  will 
today  vote  in  favour  of  the  of  the  draft  resolution  on 
the necessity of ending the embargo against Cuba. 

During  his  Nobel  Peace  Prize  acceptance  speech 
in Norway in December 2009, President Barack Obama 
asserted that “Our actions matter, and can bend history 
in the direction of justice.” The President of the United 
States had also declared a few months earlier, during a 
trip  to  Latin America  in April  2009,  that  “the  United 
States  seeks  a  new  beginning  with  Cuba”.  Today,  the 
Movement once again urges the United Sates to match 
those  words  with  action  by  swiftly  lifting  the  unjust 
embargo it is imposing against Cuba, thereby allowing 
the  arc  of  history 
in 
international  relations  and  enabling  the  valiant  people 
of  Cuba  to  fully  prosper  and  enjoy  their  sovereignty, 
independence and right to self-determination. 
Mr. Kamau (Kenya): I have the honour to speak 

on behalf of the African Group, which aligns itself with 
the statements made on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China and of the Non-Aligned Movement. We wish to 
acknowledge the presence of His Excellency Mr. Bruno 
to  bend 
towards 
justice 
11-56249 

3 

in 
shares 
laws  and 
imposition  of 
international  community 
impact.  Africa 
the 
A/66/PV.41 

Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Cuba. 

At the outset, I would like to thank the Secretary-
General  for  his  report  on  the  agenda  item  entitled 
“Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba” (A/66/114). Over the years, the 
General  Assembly,  while  deliberating  on  this  agenda 
item,  has  categorically  and  overwhelmingly  rejected 
regulations  with 
the 
extraterritorial 
the  views 
expressed  by 
its 
continued  opposition  to  the  sanctions  and  embargo 
against Cuba. 

The  General  Assembly  has  also  called  upon  all 
States,  in  conformity  with  their  obligations  under  the 
United Nations Charter and international law, to refrain 
from promulgating and applying, as well as to repeal or 
invalidate, laws and measures that have extraterritorial 
effects  affecting  the  sovereignty  of  other  States,  the 
legitimate  interests  of  entities  or  persons  under  their 
jurisdiction  and  the  freedom  of  trade  and  navigation. 
Repeated  calls  by  the  international  community  to  that 
effect  remain  unheeded.  The  sad,  tragic  and  decades-
old  United  States  embargo  on  Cuba,  including  its 
extraterritorial aspects, continues to remain in force. 

the  Secretary-General  of 
16 August,  the  majority  of  United  Nations  Members, 
including  from  the  African  continent  and  various 
United  Nations  entities,  categorically  rejected  the 
imposition  of  the  embargo  on  Cuba  and  called  for  its 
lifting. 
Given their proximity, Cuba and the United States 

of  America  should  be  natural  partners 
trade, 
commerce  and  investment.  Given  the  large  number  of 
Americans  of  Cuban  extraction,  Cuba  and  the  United 
States should also enjoy warm and fraternal relations in 
social  and  cultural  affairs  between  their  populations. 
The  potential  for  those  economic,  commercial  and 
cultural  ties  between  the  two  nations  has,  however, 
sadly remained unrealized. 

this 
intergenerational embargo imposed on Cuba, surely the 
time  has  come  when,  in  a  globalized,  interdependent 
world, nations ought to find the courage, the foresight 
and  the  sense  of  global  citizenry  and  leadership  that 
would  help 
to  overcome 
differences  and  nurture  coexistence  in  a  manner  that 
report  of 
Whatever 
to  drive 
historical 
resolve 
roots 
the 
In 
the 
in 
of 
a 
the 
country’s 
application  of 
the  AU  Summit’s  earlier  call  on 
the  General  Assembly  on  behalf  of 
speaks  to  the  high  global  ideals  of  the  international 
community in the twenty-first century. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  Africa’s 
opposition  to  unilateral  measures  that  impinge  on  the 
sovereignty  of  another  country,  including  attempts  to 
extend 
laws 
extraterritorially to other sovereign nations. The heads 
of State and Government of the African Union (AU), at 
their  meeting  in  July  in  Malabo,  Equatorial  Guinea, 
reiterated 
the 
Government of the United States of America to lift the 
long-standing  and  unjustifiable  economic  and  trade 
embargo  imposed  on  Cuba,  and  thereby  enable  it  to 
enjoy  all  the  legitimate  prospects  for  its  sustained 
development. 

Once  again,  Africa  calls  for  the  complete  and 
unequivocal  lifting  of  sanctions  and  the  embargo 
against Cuba. 
Mrs. Coye-Felson (Belize): I have the honour to 

the 
address 
the  Caribbean  Community 
14 member  States  of 
(CARICOM),  which  also  aligns 
the 
statements  made  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and 
China, and the Non-Aligned Movement. 

CARICOM  member  States  continue  to  reiterate 
their  unequivocal  opposition  to  the  United  States’ 
imposition  of  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo 
the 
overwhelming majority of the international community 
has  consistently  opposed  for  the  past  19  years.  The 
unilateral  imposition  of  extraterritorial  laws  on  third 
States is contrary to both the letter and the spirit of the 
United  Nations  Charter,  and  the  embargo  itself  runs 
counter to the principles that the United Nations and all 
Member  States  have  traditionally  championed:  the 
principles  of  multilateralism, 
law, 
sovereignty and free trade. 

The  stubborn  persistence  of  the  embargo  is 
apparently  impervious  to  the  sustained  chorus  of 
international criticism and to the logic of a world that 
has changed immeasurably over the five decades since 
the  imposition  of  the  blockade. The  embargo  has  now 
outlived the cold war by 20 years. It has outlasted the 
terms  of  eight  Presidents  of  the  United  States  of 
America  and  even  that  of  Cuban  President  Fidel 
Castro.  More  than  70  per  cent  of  Cubans  alive  today 
were  born  under  the  embargo.  CARICOM  considers 
the embargo an anachronism that has succeeded only in 
against  Cuba, 
international 
itself  with 
embargo 
that 
an 
the 
4 

11-56249 
increasing 
in  unnecessarily 
This  year’s  report  of 


contributing to the suffering of generations of ordinary 
Cubans  and 
tensions 
between  the  United  States  and  Cuba.  It  serves  no 
justifiable  legal,  political  or  moral  purpose  in  the 
twenty-first century. 

The punitive  embargo is of particular  concern to 
CARICOM,  which  shares  a  history,  culture,  solidarity 
and kinship with the people of Cuba. Cuba is the most 
populous State of the Caribbean region and an integral 
part of the pan-Caribbean process. Caribbean ties with 
Cuba  have  historical  significance,  cemented  by  years 
of  active  cooperation  at  various  levels.  CARICOM 
member  States  continue  to  maintain  close  relations 
with  Cuba  through  a  wide  range  of  programmes  of 
cooperation  in  areas  including  trade,  health  care, 
infrastructure  and  human  resource  development.  In 
many ways, our future regional development is reliant 
upon our collective advancement and progress. In that 
context,  the  embargo  is  not  just  a  punitive  act  against 
Cuba,  but  an  impediment  to  our  shared  regional 
development in the wider Caribbean. 

the  Secretary-General 
(A/66/114) on the implementation of the resolution on 
this issue, like previous reports on this matter, outlines 
responses  from  the  vast  majority  of  Member  States, 
which  share  a  common  perspective  on  the  continued 
unilateral  embargo  against  Cuba.  Indeed,  the  report 
makes  clear  that  the  embargo  even  affects  the  manner 
in  which  organs  and  agencies  of  the  United  Nations 
system carry out their work in Cuba. 

in 
CARICOM  member  States 
reaffirming the positions of the Group of 77 and China 
as  well  as  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  maintain  that 
constructive engagement and peaceful negotiations are 
the  only  acceptable  means  of  advancing  long-term 
peace and stability. 

There is probably no single issue upon which the 
United  Nations  has  made  such  sustained,  strong  and 
unambiguous  pronouncements  as  with  the  resolutions 
condemning 
the 
embargo  continues,  in  the  face  of  overwhelming 
international  reproach.  The  continued  disregard  of 
these  resolutions  represents  a  blot  on  the  credibility 
and  efficacy  of 
the  United  Nations.  CARICOM 
member  States  thus  reiterate  the  view  that  additional 
mechanisms  could  be  explored  to  operationalize  the 
words  of  the  resolution  and  facilitate  the  process  that 
the  embargo  against  Cuba.  Yet 
therefore, 
A/66/PV.41
to  be  of  great  concern 
will  end  this  continued  indifference  to  the  will  of  the 
international community. 

The  significance  of  the  embargo  for  the  Cuban 
economy  continues 
to 
CARICOM, and the humanitarian impact on the people 
of Cuba, especially in the area of health care and food, 
is  especially  saddening.  The  inability  of  Cuba  to 
acquire  necessary  medical  equipment,  spare  parts  and 
latest-generation medications, because of the embargo, 
continues  to  affect  the  health-care  system,  where 
treatment remains free of charge to the Cuban people. 
With  the  strengthening  and  more  frequent  storms  and 
hurricanes  wrought  by  climate  change,  and  Cuba’s 
geographic  susceptibility  to  such  natural  disasters,  the 
humanitarian  impact  of  the  embargo  becomes  even 
more acute.  

Additionally,  construction  materials  and  heavy 
equipment  are  becoming  increasingly  inaccessible  to 
Cuba  because  of  stringent  rules  of  origin  and 
restrictions  against  corporations  based  outside  of  the 
United  States.  The  negative  effects  on  the  Cuban 
economy and its growth are tangible. The embargo has 
now  cost  Cuba  over  $100  billion  since  its  1962 
imposition.  In 
the  ongoing  global 
economic  meltdown,  the  unilateral  measures  against 
the  Cuban  people  are  now  even  more  harsh  and 
indefensible. 

It is remarkable that, even as Cuba struggles with 
a recent unfortunate string of natural disasters and the 
continuing  impacts  of  the  global  economic  crisis,  it 
continues  to  assist  other  nations  in  the  developing 
world, 
immediate  Caribbean 
neighbours.  Thousands  of  Caribbean  students  have 
attended Cuban universities without charge; thousands 
more  have 
received  free  surgeries  and  medical 
assistance in Cuba; and thousands have been treated in 
their home countries by Cuban doctors and nurses. We 
have  benefited  from  technical  expertise,  capacity-
building  programmes  and  infrastructural  assistance, 
and  from  the  selfless  generosity  of  the  Cuban  people. 
The  people  of  Cuba  have  threatened  no  one,  and 
neither the embargo nor its deleterious side-effects has 
prevented  them  from  continually  extending  a  hand  of 
friendship  and  solidarity,  even  across 
ideological 
divides.  On  behalf  of  CARICOM  member  States,  we 
also take this opportunity to thank the people of Cuba 
for their tremendous and selfless assistance in the wake 
of last year’s devastating earthquake in Haiti. 
starting  with 
the  wake  of 
its 
11-56249 

5 
the 
remains 
hopes,  CARICOM 
A/66/PV.41 


Given Cuba’s peaceful, generous and cooperative 
international  stance,  CARICOM  reiterates  its  support 
for the right of the Cuban people to self-determination, 
in  a  manner  beneficial  to  their  social  and  economic 
development. 

CARICOM  member  States  continue  to  enjoy 
friendly  relations  with  both  Cuba  and  the  United 
States.  Those  two  neighbours  —  a  mere  90  miles 
apart —  have  produced  great  scholars,  scientists  and 
global  leaders.  The  two  countries  possess  proud  and 
noble histories, and are populated by friendly, open and 
loving  peoples. As  such,  in  spite  of  a  long  history  of 
dashed 
guardedly 
optimistic  that  a  new  beginning  is  possible  in  the 
relationship between the Governments of Cuba and the 
United States. However, we consider the lifting of the 
embargo  to  be  a  prerequisite  for  any  meaningful 
rapprochement  between 
two  countries,  not  a 
negotiated  end-result.  While  there  have  been  some 
recent  positive  indications  of  flexibility,  there  have 
also been reminders of unilateral rigidity. 

We remain hopeful that the United States’ recent 
recommitment  to  multilateralism  will  result  an  in 
increased  willingness  to  consider  the  opinions  and 
concerns  of  its  global  friends  and  partners.  On  this 
issue,  global  opinion  could  hardly  be  conveyed  in  a 
more  convincing  or  consistent  manner.  As  such,  our 
faith in the recent pronouncements of the United States 
Government  carries  with  it  an  expectation  that  these 
few remaining historical and unilateral wrongs will be 
righted expeditiously. 

It is within this context that CARICOM member 
States unstintingly support draft resolution A/66/L.4 on 
the necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial  embargo  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba. 

Mrs. Aitimova (Kazakhstan): I have the pleasure 
of  delivering  the  following  statement  on  behalf  of  the 
members  of  the  Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation 
(OIC),  in  my  country’s  capacity  as  Chair  of  the  OIC 
Group. 

At  the  outset,  I  should  like  to  express  to Turkey 
our  sympathy  and  deepest  condolences  in  connection 
with the devastating earthquake that struck the country 
last  Sunday,  causing  a  number  of  deaths  and 
widespread damage. 

the  economic,  commercial  and 

Let  me  also  convey  our  shared  sorrow  to  the 
Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  in  connection  with  the 
demise  of  His  Royal  Highness  Prince  Sultan  Bin 
Abdulaziz  Al-Saud,  Crown  Prince,  Deputy  Prime 
Minister and Minister of Defence and Aviation. 

I  should  like  to  express  our  appreciation  to  the 
Secretary-General for his  report entitled “Necessity  of 
ending 
financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba” (A/66/114). 
As  all  are  aware,  although  the  United  Nations, 

various  international  forums  and  non-governmental 
organizations  have  for  a  long  time  tirelessly  and 
repeatedly  expressed  the  rejection  by  the  international 
community  of  the  unilateral  sanctions,  this  issue 
remains a critical one on the United Nations agenda. 

Bearing that in mind, I should like to address this 
issue  once  again  on  behalf  of  the  Organization  of 
Islamic Cooperation Group in New York. 

OIC  activities  are  guided  by  the  principles  of 
international  law,  and  we  support  the  right  of  every 
nation to follow its own unique way of development. In 
this  regard,  the  OIC  group  condemns  any  unilateral 
acts that affect the sovereignty and interests of another 
State and its people. We do not agree with any external 
regulations  that  infringe  on,  impede  or  retard  the 
including 
development  of  any  country, 
the 
economic, commercial and financial spheres. 

The OIC wishes to emphasize that the imposition 
of arbitrary, unilateral laws contradicts the regulations 
and directions of the World Trade Organization, which 
prohibit the adoption of measures likely to hinder free 
international  trade  and  shipping  so  as  to  allow  the 
widest possible partnership between the two sides. 

Finally, the OIC, like the overwhelming majority 
of  the  international  community,  calls  for  lifting  the 
embargo on Cuba in accordance with the principles and 
purposes  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  the 
appropriate General Assembly resolutions. 
Mr. Cancela  (Uruguay) (spoke in Spanish):  It is 

an  honour  for  the  delegation  of  Uruguay  to  speak  on 
behalf  of  the  MERCOSUR  States:  Argentina,  Brazil, 
Paraguay  and  Uruguay; 
the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela;  and  the  associated 
States Bolivia, Chile, Colombia, Ecuador and Peru. 
the  acceding  State 
in 
6 

11-56249 
in 
the  charter  of 



I  would  like  to  welcome  among  us  the  presence 
of  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba,  His 
Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla.  

MERCOSUR  was  founded  on  the  principles  of 
solidarity,  interdependence  and  good-neighbourliness. 
We believe that tolerance is the basis that has enabled 
the  historic  convergence  on  our  continent  of  peoples 
from  all  corners  of  the  world.  We  are  linked  to  our 
Latin  American  neighbours  by  the  desire  to  live  in 
peace and to promote mutual understanding, to defend 
the  independence,  the  equality  and  sovereignty  of 
States,  and  to  promote  respect  for  international  law. 
Those  ideals,  which  have  historically  guided  relations 
among  the  Latin  American  States  and  societies,  are 
enshrined 
the  Organization  of 
American States.  

We  regret  that  the  blockade  policy  against  Cuba 
remains  unchanged.  We  have  even  seen  increased 
restrictions on Cuba’s financial transactions with third 
countries.  We  regret  that  conditionalities  once  again 
obstruct  the  path  towards  a  greater  openness  to  direct 
dialogue. 
the 

American  Government  with 
easing 
restrictions  on  travel  and  remittances,  among  other 
things, were positively received in this forum, because 
they  were  headed 
the  right  direction.  Those 
measures,  however,  have  not  brought  with  them  a 
substantial  change  in  the  blockade  policy;  they  are 
insufficient and have a limited scope. 
MERCOSUR and its associated States understand 

that  the  embargo  against  Cuba  is  contrary  to  the 
principles  of 
the  United  Nations  Charter  and 
contravenes the rules of international law, in particular 
the  equality  of  States,  non-intervention  in  domestic 
affairs,  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  the 
norms  of  the  multilateral  trade  system,  which  link  the 
members of the World Trade Organization. 
This  embargo,  which  is  contrary  to  the  principle 

of  justice  and  human  rights,  represents  collective 
punishment  that  produces  shortages  and  suffering  for 
the  population,  limits  and  delays  development  and 
seriously harms the Cuban economy. 

The  MERCOSUR  States  parties  and  associated 
States reject unilateral and extraterritorial measures as 
a  matter  of  principle.  We  condemn  the  application  of 
coercive  unilateral  measures  that  are  contrary  to  free 
last  year  by 
respect 
The  measures  announced 
to 
in 
A/66/PV.41
among 
associates 
itself  with 
peoples.  The 
My  delegation 
reiterate  our  commitment 
trade,  cause  irremediable  damage  to  people’s  welfare 
and obstruct the processes of regional integration. 

Reaffirming  once  more  our  unwavering  support 
for  draft  resolution  A/66/L.4,  MERCOSUR  and  its 
associated  States 
to 
multilateralism  as  a  legitimate  instrument  for  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes and as an effective path 
in  the  promotion  of  international  cooperation  and 
understanding 
economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  against 
Cuba  is  an  example  of  obsolete  policies  that  have  no 
place  today.  By  adopting  this  draft  resolution,  the 
Assembly will provide further proof of its unwavering 
political  will  in  defence  of  the  ideals  of  freedom, 
solidarity and respect for sovereignty and international 
law. 
Mr. Ahamed  (India):  Thank  you,  Mr.  President, 

for  giving  me  this  opportunity  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.  

the 
statements made by the representative of Argentina on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  and  by  the 
representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement. 

We  meet  yet  again  to  deliberate  on  the  agenda 
item  entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United  States  against  Cuba”.  For  all  these  years,  the 
Assembly  has  repeatedly  rejected  the  imposition  of 
laws and regulations with extraterritorial impact and all 
other  kinds  of  coercive  economic  measures  that  hurt 
the progress and prosperity of people the world over. 

The  Assembly  has  also  called  upon  States  to 
respect  their  obligations  under  the  United  Nations 
Charter  and  international  law,  and  to  repeal  and 
invalidate  laws  and  measures  that  have  extraterritorial 
effects on other States. It is unfortunate that, in spite of 
the  General Assembly’s  yearly  rejection  of  the  United 
States  embargo  against  Cuba,  the  embargo  remains  in 
full  force.  We  see  such  enforcement  as  a  violation  of 
world  opinion  and  as  an  act  that  severely  undermines 
multilateralism  and 
the  United 
Nations itself. 

The  more  than  half-century-old  United  States 
embargo on Cuba has brought immense suffering to the 
Cuban people. It has severely undermined the progress 
and  development  of  the  country.  The  embargo,  which 
the  credibility  of 
11-56249 

7 
The 

and 
The 
India 
to  Cuba 
taken  by 
remittances 
joins  other  nations 
the  draft  resolution 
Export Enhancement Act of 2000, the United States has 
become the largest exporter of agricultural products to 
Cuba.  Congressional  efforts  in  the  United  States  to 
relax  or  lift  the  embargo  lend  further  credence  to  the 
annual United Nations resolutions calling for the lifting 
of the United States embargo against Cuba. People-to-
people  contacts  between  the  two  countries  remain 
severely curtailed. 

the  United  States 
steps 
Administration  in  January  to  reduce  restrictions  on 
travel 
are  positive 
developments.  However,  the  United  States  is  far  from 
making  a  fundamental  change  in  the  complex  of  laws 
and  regulations  that  form  the  framework  of  the 
embargo against Cuba. Much more needs to be done. 

in  calling  for  an 
immediate  end  to  the  United  States  embargo  against 
Cuba.  India  supports 
to  be 
introduced  shortly  by  the  representative  of  Cuba 
(A/66/L.4). 
Mr.  Alurralde  Tejada  (Plurinational  State  of 

Bolivia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  would  like  to  begin  by 
stating that Bolivia associates itself with the statements 
made  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  the 
Group of 77, and the Southern Common Market. 

The  Cold  War  came  to  an  end  in  1989,  and  the 
fear of a nuclear war that would not only have been the 
most  devastating  ever,  but  would  have  been  the  last 
war  ever  because  it  would  have  led  to  the  end  of 
humankind, vanished. However, now we find ourselves 
facing  other  threats,  such  as  climate  change,  which 
strike equal fear in our hearts.  

However, here at the United Nations we are today 
discussing  a  sad  aftertaste  of  the  Cold  War  whose 
continued  existence  we  still  cannot  comprehend.  On 
26 June  1963,  President  Kennedy  addressed 
the 
citizens  of  Berlin  in  order  to  tell  them  that  they  were 
living  in  a  fortified  island  of  liberty.  That  island  was 
defended  with  all  the  resources  made  possible  by  a 
blockade,  which  sought 
the  city’s 
resistance and was overcome through the establishment 
of an air bridge organized by the Western Powers. We 
do  not  understand  how  one  of  the  countries  that  once 
condemned 
today 
perseveres  in  maintaining  a  decades-long  blockade 
against the sisterly Republic of Cuba.  
that  blockade  with  such  force 
to  undermine 
cultural 
and 
embargo, 
particularly 
educational, 
A/66/PV.41 

likely  has  no  parallel  in  history,  is  a  transgression  of 
the  right  of  a  sovereign  State  to  development  and  to 
enjoy freedom of trade, economy and navigation. 

On  the  one  hand,  we,  the  global  community, 
make  tall  promises  with  respect  to  the  Millennium 
Development Goals and on striving for human dignity 
and  achieving  equitable  growth,  but  when  it  comes  to 
actions, we do the exact opposite of what we promise. 
The  embargo  has  denied  a  life  of  dignity  and  basic 
standards of living to the people of Cuba. Actions must 
speak louder than words. 
its 

through 
extraterritorial  effects,  has  adversely  affected 
the 
economic  prosperity  of  the  Cuban  people.  The  global 
economic  slowdown,  along  with  spiralling  food  and 
energy  prices,  has  made  matters  worse.  The  embargo 
has  denied  Cuba  access  to  United  States  markets, 
investment,  technology  and  financial  services,  and  to 
scientific, 
sporting 
institutions. Cuba has had to pay enormous extra costs 
for  sourcing  products,  technology  and  services  from 
third countries located thousands of kilometres away. 
The  extraterritorial  application  of  the  United 

States 
investment, 
technology transfer and commercial and other forms of 
business  collaborations  between  Cuba  and 
third 
countries.  The  prohibition  of  technology  and  related 
scientific 
the 
extraterritorial application of the embargo, has severely 
impacted  health  care,  a  fundamental  part  of  the 
commitments 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  in  Cuba.  It  has  also  undermined 
Cuba’s  ability 
to 
developing 
of  South-South 
cooperation. 

The report of the Secretary General on the agenda 
item  under  consideration  (A/66/114)  illustrates  the 
detrimental  impact  that  the  embargo  has  had  on 
international  efforts 
to  undertake  socio-economic 
progress 
in  Cuba.  The  United  Nations  Resident 
Coordinator  in  Havana  has  noted  the  high  cost  and 
negative  impact  of  the  embargo  on  the  humanitarian 
and  development  cooperation  implemented  by  the 
United Nations system in Cuba. 

There  is  a  huge  potential  for  strengthening 
economic  and  commercial  ties  between  Cuba  and  the 
United  States.  Taking  advantage  of  limited  openings 
under  the  United  States  Trade  Sanctions  Reform  and 
to  provide  health  assistance 
discouraged 
particularly 
contained 
countries 
as  part 
support, 
embargo 
has 
through 
in 
8 

11-56249 
resisting 



We therefore wish today to refashion the words of 
President Kennedy for the beloved Cuban people, who 
are 
the  United  States  embargo.  The 
emblematic phrase of freedom at that time was “I am a 
Berliner”.  We  say  to  the  Cuban  people  that  the 
emblematic  phrase  for  the  defence  of  life  in  the 
twentieth  century  is  “I  am  a  Cuban”.  Only  a  heroic 
people  determined  never  to  surrender  its  right  to 
sovereignty  and  to  freely  choose  its  destiny  without 
foreign  interference,  such  as  the  Cuban  people,  can 
serve as inspiration and example to future generations. 

I am a Cuban. That is for us, the free peoples of 
the  world,  a  symbol  of  pride  in  our  time.  Certainly, 
since  the  United  States  imposed  its  blockade  against 
Cuba, all of us in the Hall, with very few exceptions, is 
a  Cuban.  Those  who  claim  that  they  are  defenders  of 
democracy  are  unaware  of  the  democracy  that  exists 
here within the United Nations. How many more times 
will  we  have  to  vote  against  the  blockade  for  it  to  be 
suspended? How many more times will the world have 
to tell the United States what it thinks of the blockade, 
with none of  our demands  being  fulfilled?  If  we truly 
believe  in  democracy,  then  let  us  start  by  heeding  the 
will of the countries represented here in the Hall.  

For all of those reasons, the Plurinational State of 
Bolivia  thanks  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report 
dated 16 August (A/66/114) and fully supports the draft 
resolution contained in document A/66/L.4. 
Mr.  De Alba  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  First 

and foremost, allow me to thank the Secretary-General 
for his detailed report on this issue  (A/66/114), which 
once  again  highlights  the  international  community’s 
broad rejection of the embargo imposed by the United 
States  of  America  against  Cuba.  For  the  twentieth 
consecutive time, the Government of Mexico returns to 
this  forum  to  repeat  its  opposition  to  the  economic, 
commercial and financial embargo against Cuba and to 
reiterate its opposition to the use of coercive measures 
that  are  in  violation  of  international  law,  which 
therefore  have  no  basis  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations. 
The  application  of  unilateral  extraterritorial 

measures 
severe 
humanitarian consequences that blatantly contradict the 
objectives  that  supposedly  inspire  them.  They  also 
represent  a  rejection  of  negotiation,  diplomacy  and 
dialogue  as  the  appropriate  means  to  resolve  disputes 
between States. 
countries 
leads 
to 
in 
third 
A/66/PV.41
the 
to  support 
inclusion  of  Cuba 

Various organs and entities in the United Nations 
system  have  documented  the  negative  impact  of  the 
embargo on Cuba’s economic and social development, 
as  has  the  Secretary-General’s  report.  Its  damaging 
effects  are  evident  in  Cuba’s  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  transactions.  It  harms  sensitive  sectors 
that directly impact the lives of the people and also has 
negative  repercussions  on  third  countries,  due  to  the 
difficulty  of  interacting  with  Cuba  in  many  economic 
and social activities. 

Mexico  has  therefore  supported  all  initiatives 
against  the  embargo  and  related  unilateral  measures, 
both  in  the  General  Assembly  and  in  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Trade  and  Development  and 
other  forums,  such  as  the  Organization  of  American 
States,  the  Latin  American  Economic  System,  the 
Ibero-American  Summit  and  the  Rio  Group.  We  shall 
continue 
in 
mechanisms  for  dialogue  and  for  global  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  exchanges,  in  line  with  the 
will and sovereign decisions of that country, in order to 
promote cooperation and development.  

Our  close  ties  with  Cuba  and  the  Cuban  people, 
as well as our own convictions, make us understand the 
urgent  need  for  the  blockade  to  end.  We  must  not 
forget  that  political,  economic  or  military  sanctions 
imposed  on  States  may  emanate  only  from 
the 
decisions or recommendations of the Security Council 
or the General Assembly.  

For  Mexico,  multilateralism  remains  the  best 
route for resolving disputes and guaranteeing peaceful 
coexistence among States. In the case before us today, 
the practically unanimous rejection by the international 
community  proves  us  right.  For  that  reason,  Mexico 
will,  as  we  have  always  done,  support  the  draft 
resolution  submitted  for  our  consideration  in  this 
session.  
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

in  Spanish):  The  Bolivarian 
Venezuela) 
Republic  of  Venezuela  endorses  the  statements  made 
by the Permanent Representative of Egypt on behalf of 
the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries, 
the 
representative  of Argentina  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
77  and  China,  and  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Uruguay on behalf of the Southern Common Market. 

We  wish  to  convey  our  condolences  to  the 
Government  of  Saudi  Arabia  on  the  passing  away  of 
Crown Prince Sultan Bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud, as well as 
(spoke 
11-56249 

9 
of 
any 
to  defend 
A/66/PV.41 

to  the  Government  of  Turkey  on  the  earthquake  that 
caused such death and destruction. 

We  would  like  to  welcome  the  presence  at  this 
meeting  of  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba, 
His Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla. 

Member States have issued a nearly universal call 
in  this  forum  for  an  end  to  the  economic,  commercial 
and financial embargo that for more than 50 years has 
sought  to  restrict  the  right  of  the  Cuban  people  to 
decide their fate. This is an unequivocal sign that it is 
necessary 
the  principles  of  political 
independence  that  underlie  the  Organization.  It  is 
shameful that this call has been ignored year after year 
by those who frequently violate international law. 
We  reiterate  Venezuela’s  strong  rejection  of  the 

application 
unilateral  measure  with 
extraterritorial  effects  that  violates  the  rules  and 
principles of international law. We support the various 
pronouncements  made  in  that  regard  by  numerous 
forums around the world.  

On  this  occasion,  we  cannot  forget  the  Cuban 
citizens Gerardo Hernández, Ramón Labatiño, Antonio 
Guerrero  and  Fernando  González  Llorét,  who  are  still 
detained  in  the  United  States  for  defending  their 
homeland  from  possible  terrorist  attacks;  likewise, 
René González, who was released but forced to remain 
in  this  country  under  an  unjust  regime  of  supervised 
release. Just as we demand, in the strongest terms, the 
end of the blockade against Cuba, we also request the 
release  of  these  four  heroes  who  remain  in  prison. 
Their  continued  detention  contrasts  with  the  freedom 
that  confessed  terrorists  such  as  Luis  Posada  Carriles 
enjoy  in  the  United  States.  We  appeal  for  René 
González to  be allowed to return to his homeland and 
to be reunited with his family. 

Although  the  United  States  Administration  has 
tried to convince international public opinion that it is 
promoting  a  change  in  its  policies  towards  Cuba,  the 
embargo against the island remains intact. 

Both  the  Torricelli  and  the  Helms-Burton  Acts, 
which  prevent  trade  between  Cuba  and  United  States 
companies  and  their  subsidiaries  in  third  countries, 
continue  in  force.  So  too  does  the  threat  of  sanctions 
against  entrepreneurs  who,  availing  themselves  of  the 
free  enterprise  policy 
the  United  States 
Government  so  much  defends,  decide  to  invest  in 
Cuba.  President  Barack  Obama  has  not  taken  any 
that 

measures  to  ease  the  commercial  blockade,  some  of 
which  do  not  require  congressional  authorization  for 
implementation. 

The  blockade  against  Cuba  is  not  an  abstract 
device applied against a Government. On the contrary, 
it  has  dramatic  impacts  on  the  daily  lives  of  women 
and  men,  children  and  elderly,  and  it  represents  a 
massive  violation  of  the  human  rights  of  a  dignified 
and sovereign people. 

The blockade negatively affects the quality of life 
of sick people who must do without drugs or access to 
high-tech  equipment  whose  sale  is  prohibited  on  the 
island  by 
the  United  States  Administration.  The 
blockade is also felt in the obstacles the Cuban people 
face  in  enjoying  their  basic  housing  rights,  since  it 
prevents the importing of building materials necessary 
for  replacing  and  repairing  the  huge  number  of 
buildings and homes damaged by hurricanes. 
Every  year  the  blockade  generates  losses  in  the 

millions  of  dollars  in  Cuba’s  basic  industry  —  in  the 
sugar  industry,  in  iron  and  steel  and  machinery,  in 
tourism. All that affects the quality of life of the Cuban 
people. A conservative estimate of the direct economic 
damage  caused  by  the  embargo,  through  December 
2009,  places  it  at  more  than  $100.154  billion.  That 
figure  would  increase  to  $239.533  billion  if  it  were 
recalculated  based  on  retail  price  inflation  in  the 
United  States.  In  the  face  of  the  blockade  and  its 
terrible  economic  and  social  consequences,  Cuba  and 
the  heroic  Cuban  people  have  moved  forward  with  a 
generous policy of cooperation with other countries of 
the South. 

The blockade therefore unquestionably represents 
the  repeated  and  unilateral  denial  by  one  signatory  to 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  of  the  right  to 
development  of  another  State  Member  and  its  people, 
without  any  hostilities  directed  at  the  aggressor  State 
on  the  part  of  the  State  being  attacked.  In  an 
international  environment  characterized  by  ongoing 
threats  to  the  sovereignty  of  States  is  constantly 
threatened,  and  where 
systematic  violations  of 
international  law  threaten  brotherly  and  cooperative 
relations  between  peoples,  it  is  more  necessary  than 
ever that we demand the end of the shameful blockade 
of Cuba. 

the 
It 
application  of  international  justice.  We  cannot  allow 
the  vilification  of  the  weak  for  being  so,  or  any 
to  end  double  standards 
time 
in 
is 
10 

11-56249 


toleration of violations on the part of the imperialists of 
the North. These are the demands of the peoples of the 
world,  echoed  by 
the  Bolivarian  Government  of 
Venezuela. It is time that the universal cry demanding 
the  lifting  of  the  blockade  against  the  heroic  Cuban 
people  be  heard.  Venezuela  therefore  supports,  in  the 
most  resolute  terms,  the  adoption  of  draft  resolution 
A/66/L.4,  which  affirms  the  necessity  of  ending  the 
blockade imposed by the  United States of America  on 
Cuba. 
Mr.  Wang  Min  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  Let 

me  begin  by  welcoming  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General on this agenda item (A/66/114). 

The Chinese delegation associates itself with the 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of Argentina  on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 

For  19  consecutive  years,  the  General Assembly 
has  adopted  by  an  overwhelming  majority  resolutions 
on  the  necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial 
and financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America on Cuba, urging all countries to abide by the 
United  Nations  Charter  and  international  law  and  to 
repeal  or 
laws  or  measures  with 
extraterritorial  implications  that  affect  the  sovereignty 
of  other  States,  the  legitimate  interests  of  entities  or 
persons  under  their  jurisdiction,  and  their  freedom  of 
trade and navigation. 

Regrettably,  however,  those  resolutions  have  not 
been  effectively  implemented  over  the  years,  and  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
on Cuba by the United States has yet to be lifted. Such 
practices  not  only  severely  violate  the  purposes  and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations and the 
relevant General Assembly  resolutions, they have also 
inflicted  enormous  economic  and  financial  losses  on 
Cuba.  According  to  figures  cited  in  the  Secretary-
General’s  report,  by  December  2010  the  economic 
losses  to  Cuba  resulting  directly  from  the  embargo 
exceeded $975 billion. 
The  sanctions  and  embargo  have  severely 

hindered 
to  eradicate 
poverty,  promote  economic  and  social  development 
and  meet  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  They 
have violated the Cuban people’s basic human right to 
food,  health  and  education,  as  well  as  their  right  to 
survival  and  development,  and  have  affected  normal 
economic, commercial and financial relations between 
Cuba and other countries. The international community 
the  Cuban  people’s  efforts 
invalidate  any 
A/66/PV.41
strictly 
In 
observed 
is  currently  dealing  with  multiple  serious  challenges, 
such  as  the  financial,  food  and  energy  crises  and 
climate change, which make the sanctions and embargo 
against  Cuba  all 
the  more  unreasonable.  The 
international  community’s  call  on  the  United  States 
Government to change its policy, lift the embargo and 
normalize bilateral relations with Cuba is growing ever 
louder. 

The  Chinese  Government  has  always  believed 
that  countries  should  develop  mutual  relations  on  the 
basis  of  upholding  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
United  Nations  Charter  and  respect  for  the  right  of 
other  countries  to  independently  choose  their  own 
social system and development path. China is opposed 
to  any  unilateral  sanctions  against  other  countries  by 
military,  political, 
economic  or  other  means. 
has 
Meanwhile,  China 
and 
implemented 
the 
relevant  General  Assembly 
resolutions.  China  and  Cuba  have  maintained  normal 
economic, 
trade  and  people-to-people  exchanges. 
Friendly  and  mutually  beneficial  cooperation 
in 
various  areas  between  our  two  countries  has  been 
growing. This is not only in accordance with the desire 
of both peoples but is also conducive to Cuba’s social 
and economic development. 

today’s  world,  dialogue,  exchange  and 
harmonious  coexistence  represent  the  mainstream  of 
international  relations.  Exchanges  on  an  equal  footing 
between countries have become the dominant trend. In 
the  face  of  differences,  dialogue  on  an  equal  footing 
and  amicable consultation  are the best  way of settling 
disputes.  China  hopes  that  the  United  States  will 
adhere  to  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  United 
Nations  Charter  and  the  relevant  General  Assembly 
resolutions, and end its embargo against Cuba as soon 
as possible. China also hopes that relations between the 
United  States  and  Cuba  will  continue  to  improve  in 
order  to  improve  stability  in  the  Latin-American  and 
Caribbean region.  
China will once more vote in favour of the draft 

resolution  (A/66/L.4)  submitted  by  Cuba  under  this 
agenda item. 
Mr.  Benmehidi  (Algeria):  Algeria  aligns  itself 

with the statements made on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement, 
the 
Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation  and  the  African 
Group.  I  would  like  to  welcome  and  acknowledge  the 
presence  in  the  Hall  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bruno 
the  Group  of  77  and  China, 
11-56249 

11 

financial 
the  continuation  of 
and 
A/66/PV.41 

Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Cuba. 
Algeria would once again like to express its deep 

the  economic, 
concern  at 
commercial 
embargo  unilaterally 
imposed for half a century now by the United States of 
America  on  Cuba. The  continuing  annual  adoption  by 
an  overwhelming  majority  of  General  Assembly 
Member States of a similar resolution calling for lifting 
the embargo against Cuba reflects the profound desire 
of  the  international  community  to  put  an  end  to  this 
situation, which has lasted far too long. 

In  accordance  with  the  principles  of  its  foreign 
policy,  Algeria  has  always  condemned  the  imposition 
of  unilateral  acts,  extraterritorial  regulations 
that 
hinder 
the  development  of  any  country,  and  all 
coercive  economic  and  trade  measures  —  such  as  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba, which is openly contrary to international law and 
the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations.  Every  Member  State  should  respect  the 
principles  of  the  Charter,  including  in  particular  the 
sovereign  equality  of  States,  territorial  integrity,  non-
intervention and non-interference in the internal affairs 
of any other State. 

It  is  a  well-established  fact  that  the  embargo 
affects Cuba’s economic growth and impedes its social 
and  human  development.  In  that  regard,  it  is  causing 
huge  material  losses  and  economic  damage  to  Cuba, 
and  creating  economic  hardship,  which  is  exacerbated 
by  the  adverse  effects  of  the  current  global  economic 
and  financial  crisis,  as  well  as  the  energy  and  food 
crises,  which  have  seriously  compromised  Cuba’s 
efforts  to  improve  its  level  of  development.  That  has 
also  affected  the  food-based  safety  nets  of  the  Cuban 
Government, which are instrumental to household food 
security, as the Secretary-General stated in his report.  

According to estimates by the Cuban Government 
that  have  been  confirmed  by  the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme,  cumulative  direct  and 
indirect  losses  to  the  Cuban  economy  over  50  years 
have amounted to more than $100 billion. 
In  accordance  with  the  long-standing  position  of 

the  Non-Aligned  Movement  on  this  issue,  Algeria 
rejects  the  use  of  economic  measures  of  coercion  and 
the  extraterritorial  application  of  laws  on  developing 
countries,  and  urges  the  Government  of  the  United 
States  of  America  to  put  an  end  to  the  economic, 
the 
Accordingly,  Algeria  will  support 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba,  in 
compliance  with  the  General  Assembly  resolutions 
adopted annually on this issue. 

the  draft 
resolution  contained  in  document  A/66/L.4,  presented 
by Cuba.  
Mr.  Mashabane  (South  Africa):  At  the  outset, 

South  Africa  would  like  to  align  itself  with  the 
statements  delivered  by 
representatives  of 
Argentina, Egypt and Kenya on behalf of the Group of 
77  and  China,  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and  the 
Group  of  African  States,  respectively.  My  delegation 
acknowledges 
the  presence  of  His  Excellency 
Mr. Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs  of  Cuba,  at  this  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly. 

The question of ending the economic, commercial 
and financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba has been, and continues to be, a 
persistent  problem  for  the  United  Nations  despite  the 
many  calls  for 
its  elimination.  The  Assembly’s 
recorded  vote  results  (see  resolution  65/6)  at  its 
previous  session,  of  187  in  favour  and  2  against  the 
embargo is a clear indication that the time has come for 
it  to  be  lifted.  The  untold  economic  and  social 
suffering  of  the  Cuban  civilian  population,  who  bear 
the  brunt  of  this  injustice,  must  end.  My  delegation 
views the continued blockade as a flagrant violation of 
the  principle  of  the  sovereign  equality  of  States  and 
non-intervention and non-interference in their domestic 
affairs.  Furthermore, 
the  blockade  constitutes  a 
violation of international law and its imposition shows 
disregard 
the  noble  and  abiding  principles 
enshrined in the Charter of the United Nations. 
It  is  therefore  against  that  backdrop  that  South 

Africa  has  repeatedly  joined  the  majority  of  countries 
in expressing opposition to all aspects of the blockade 
and  the  unilateral  action  of  the  United  States  of 
America. South Africa once again reiterates its support 
for the lifting of the embargo against Cuba. 

The  situation  is  further  aggravated  by  the  global 
financial  and  economic  crisis,  energy  crisis  and  food 
crisis,  as  well  as  challenges  of  climate  change,  which 
have  affected  many  countries,  including  Cuba.  The 
embargo  directly  hinders  Cuba’s  economic  recovery 
and  negatively  impacts  trade,  tourism,  foreign  direct 
investment and currency transfers. The damage caused 
for 
12 

11-56249 
South  Africa 
to 
in 
to 
sanctions 
and 
the  Global  Fund 
is  estimated 
to  exceed 
is  deeply  concerned  over 
the  United  Nations  concerning 


to 
the  Cuban  economy 
$975 billion in the future. 

the 
widening of the extra-territorial nature of the embargo 
and rejects the reinforcement of the measures aimed at 
its  tightening,  as  well  as  all  other  recent  measures 
carried out by the United States of America against the 
people of Cuba. 

My  delegation  condemns  the  seizing  by  the 
United States, in January, of more than $4.2 million of 
funding  from 
to  fight  AIDS, 
Tuberculosis and Malaria, which was earmarked for the 
implementation of cooperation projects with Cuba. 

We support the content of the press release dated 
18 October by the Permanent Mission of the Republic 
of  Cuba 
the 
intensification  of 
extra-territorial 
persecution  of  citizens,  institutions  and  companies  in 
third  countries  that  establish  economic,  commercial, 
financial,  scientific  and  technical  ties  with  Cuba.  My 
delegation  is  strongly  opposed  to  the  actions  of  the 
United  States  with  regard  to  fines  levied  against 
foreign  banking  institutions  for  having  conducted 
operations with Cuba. 
The  people  of  South  Africa,  and  Africa  in 

the  heroic 
general,  have 
the  struggles  against 
contributions  of  Cuba 
colonization, oppression and apartheid. In an attempt to 
foster  trade  with  Cuba,  South  Africa  is  finalizing  its 
proposal  to  offer  a  credit  line  of  about  $10  million  to 
Cuba.  That  would  be  a  breakthrough 
trade 
cooperation 
reaffirm  South 
Africa’s commitment and ongoing support for Cuba. 

The  international  community  recognizes  Cuba’s 
outstanding work in the areas of health, education and 
biotechnology in Latin America, the Caribbean, Africa 
and the underdeveloped world in particular, and in the 
world in general. The embargo stifles those outstanding 
contributions to economic and social development and 
hinders the betterment of the lives of the poor. 

South  Africa  calls  on  all  Member  States  to 
support  the  lifting  of  the  United  States  of  America’s 
embargo against Cuba and to refrain from recognizing 
the  unilateral  measures  and  laws  of  a  coercive  nature 
that  defy  the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations and norms of international law. 
relations  and  would 
fond  memories  of 
A/66/PV.41
Mr.  Le  Hoai  Trung  (Viet  Nam):  The  General 

Assembly  has  discussed  for  20  consecutive  years  the 
necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America  against  Cuba. Also  for  20  consecutive  years, 
by  the  end  of  today’s  meeting  the  General  Assembly 
will  have  overwhelmingly  adopted  another  resolution 
on  this  issue  of  common  concern.  In  that  connection, 
my  delegation  associates  itself  with  the  statements 
made by the representatives of Argentina and Egypt on 
behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China,  and  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement,  respectively.  We  have  often 
heard  calls  for  prompt  action  by  the  United  Nations 
and  States  on  issues  that  concern  the  international 
community. After 20  consecutive years of the General 
Assembly’s  demand  against  the  backdrop  of  the  half-
century embargo, it is obvious that ending the embargo 
is one of those issues. 

Viet  Nam  shares  the  view  of  the  international 
community  that  the  United  States  should  end  the 
embargo  against  Cuba,  a  sovereign  and  peace-loving 
nation,  based  on  the  existing  strong  legal,  political, 
economic  and,  as  is  often  talked  about  these  days, 
humanitarian reasons. 

the  General  Assembly’s 
resolutions  on  the  issue,  the  policies  and  measures  in 
pursuit of the embargo against Cuba, including the so-
called  Helms-Burton Act,  are  contrary  to  international 
law  and  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  United 
Nations  Charter.  They  hinder  the  development  of 
friendly  relations  among  nations.  The  basis  of  these 
policies and measures violates the right of a people to 
self-determination,  which 
includes,  among  other 
things, the right to determine their political system and 
path of development.  

The restrictions on trade, finance and even travel 
continue to have serious, illegal extraterritorial effects 
on the sovereignty of other States and their legitimate 
economic  interests  relating  to  persons  under  their 
jurisdiction,  freedom  of  trade  and  navigation  and 
efforts  towards  the  equal  and  just  global  economic 
structure  that  is  necessary  for  the  prosperity  of  every 
nation. The Government of Cuba estimates that the loss 
and damage the embargo has caused the Cuban people 
amounts to nearly $1 trillion. It is a staggering figure, 
but  the  suffering  the  embargo  has  caused  the  Cuban 
people  is  greater  than  the  mere  number,  and  is 
especially profound for women and children. 
affirmed 
As 
in 
11-56249 

13 
in  addition 
A/66/PV.41 


This has also prompted the Ibero-American heads 
of  State  and  Government  to  call  for  an  end  to  the 
embargo.  In  the  Final  Document  of  the  fifteenth 
Summit of the Non-Aligned Movement, held in Egypt 
in  2009,  the  heads  of  State  and  Government  of  the 
Movement  

“reiterated  their  call  to  the  Government  of  the 
United  States  of  America  to  put  an  end  to  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
against  Cuba  which, 
to  being 
unilateral  and  contrary  to  the  United  Nations 
Charter and international law, and to the principle 
of  neighbourliness,  is  causing  huge  material 
losses  and  economic  damage  to  the  people  of 
Cuba.” 

The discussions we are engaged in and the action 
that  the  General Assembly  is  going  to  take  today  are 
consistent with the desire for cooperation and dialogue 
that, at the start of this session, permeated the general 
debate  and  its  theme  of  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes.  In  this  regard,  we  would  like  to  recall  the 
statement  made  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bruno 
Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Cuba,  in  the  General Assembly  just  a  month  ago  (see 
A/66/PV.26), in which he reiterated Cuba’s willingness 
to move towards normalizing relations with the United 
States, as well as its proposal to begin dialogue aimed 
at  solving  bilateral  issues,  including  humanitarian 
issues, and its offer of cooperation in numerous areas. 

For  the  reasons  to  which  I  have  referred,  Viet 
Nam  will  support  draft  resolution  A/66/L.4  under 
consideration  today  and  strongly  urges  the  United 
States  to  end  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  against  Cuba  and  begin  dialogue  with  that 
country. 

the 
Grenadines): A half-century ago, the world was witness 
to  the  Cuban  spring,  an  indigenous  and  popular 
uprising  against  a  corrupt  and  brutal  dictator.  The 
Cuban  people,  unassisted  by  foreign  military  forces, 
cast  off  the  shackles  of  rapacious  exploitation  and 
chose for themselves a new and uniquely adapted path 
of  progress,  global  citizenship  and  development  that 
was measured not by levels of corporate or individual 
excess but by its fulfilment of the needs of its citizens, 
particularly the poor. 
Alas, some States did not greet the Cuban spring 

in the spirit of enthusiasm with which they welcomed, 
Mr.  Gonsalves
(Saint  Vincent 
and 

above 
fortunes 
electoral 
assisted  or  instigated  other,  subsequent  revolutionary 
movements.  For  the  past  five  decades,  Cuba  has  been 
subject  to  an  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo whose scale and scope have no parallel in the 
modern world. For the past 20 years, the international 
community has spoken in an increasingly unified voice 
against  the  continued  imposition  of  that  blockade. 
Today, Saint Vincent  and the Grenadines unreservedly 
aligns  itself  with  the  positions  expressed  by  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement,  the  Group  of  77  and  China, 
and  the  Caribbean  Community  in  again  calling  for  an 
end to this unjust, immoral and illegal embargo. 

By  almost  any  measure,  the  embargo  is  an 
unmitigated failure. It has served only to visit suffering 
on the Cuban people and as a jingoistic backdrop to a 
smattering  of  pandering  politicians  who  value  their 
individual 
integrity, 
international  law  and  the  weight  of  overwhelming 
global condemnation. 

Today  we  must  ask  ourselves:  What  place  does 
this  embargo  have  in  our  modern  world?  And  in  an 
interconnected  world  of  open  borders  and  the  free 
movement  of  people,  goods  and  capital,  how  can  the 
champions and architects of globalization legislate the 
isolation  of  one  State,  or  place  extraterritorial 
restrictions  on  commerce,  global 
the 
movement  of  individuals?  How  can  the  electorate  of 
one  district,  or  one  constituency,  or  one  country 
determine the cargo and path of a ship sailing into and 
out of Cuban waters, or the manner in which banks and 
corporations  of  other  countries  conduct  their  business 
with Cuba? 

As  a  developing  country  heavily  dependent  on 
remittances  and  affected  by  an  international  economic 
meltdown  not  of  our  own  making,  Saint  Vincent  and 
the Grenadines finds it inexplicably cruel that any State 
would  seek  to  limit  the  amount  of  money  that  one 
family  member  could  bring  home  to  another,  or  the 
value of items in a gift parcel, particularly in the midst 
of this global recession. 

Today,  there  are  countries  where  United  States 
soldiers  are  heroically  fighting  and  shedding  blood  in 
wars,  yet  United  States  citizens  may  travel  to  those 
countries,  and  foreign  banks  may  transact  business  in 
them.  There  are  countries  whose 
systems  of 
governance,  or  whose  practices  and  values,  are 
diametrically opposed to the American way of life. Yet 
the  bonds  of  trade  and  mutual  respect  for  sovereignty 
trade  and 
14 

11-56249 
international 
law,  or 
if  every  vicious 


supersede  those  differences,  and  no  embargo  exists  to 
impose the ideals of one nation upon another. Only the 
Cuban embargo remains as the last surviving relic of a 
Cold  War  that  otherwise  exists  only  in  history  books 
and  museums.  Even 
lie,  every 
unfounded allegation, every spurious and demonstrably 
false  characterization  of  the  Cuban  Government  were 
accepted as fact, they would not justify the existence of 
this embargo in a modern world of interconnection and 
multilateral engagement. 

No country represented here in Hall has the right 
to  tell  the  United  States  how  to  conduct  its  foreign 
policy,  who  its  friends  should  be  or  how  to  determine 
its national interests. Even if such a right existed, Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  would  not  presume  to 
exercise  it  against  our  cherished  friend  and  neighbour 
to the north. But every country in the Hall is obligated 
by  the  United  Nations  Charter  to  oppose  instances 
where  national  foreign  policy  decisions  morph  into 
violations  of 
into  sustained 
disregard  for  the  Charter  principles  of  sovereign 
equality and non-interference in the domestic affairs of 
States. 

Among  the  complex  and  interlocking  system  of 
laws  that  perpetuate  the  Cuban  embargo  is  the  United 
States  1996  Cuban  Liberty  and  Democratic  Solidarity 
Act, which makes the easing or lifting of the embargo 
conditional  on  a  determination  that  a  transitional  or 
new Government is in power in Cuba. I am unaware of 
any  other  instance  where  the  principle  of  regime 
change  is  so  nakedly  codified  into  the  legislation  of 
another  country.  The  Helms-Burton  Act  has  a  stated 
policy objective of installing a “democratically elected 
Government” 
in  Cuba,  and  helpfully  supplies  a 
congressional  definition  of  what  constitutes  a 
democratically  elected  Government.  According  to  the 
definition provided, as it appears in section 206 of the 
Act, a democratically elected Government is one that 

“has  made  demonstrable  progress  in  returning  to 
United  States  citizens  (and  entities  which  are 
50 per cent or more beneficially owned by United 
States  citizens)  property  taken  by  the  Cuban 
Government from such citizens and entities on or 
after 
full 
compensation for such property”. 

That  is  the  definition  of  the  democratically 
elected  Government.  Whatever  the  merits  of  this 
definition  of  democracy,  the  continued  application  of 
January  1,  1959,  or  providing 
A/66/PV.41
the Act stands in marked contrast to the words uttered 
by  our  esteemed  friend  and  brother  President  Barack 
Obama of the United States in his inaugural address to 
the  General  Assembly  in  its  general  debate.  In  that 
address, President Obama rightly stated that 


“Democracy  cannot  be  imposed  on  any 
nation from the outside. Each society must search 
for  its  own  path,  and  no  path  is  perfect.  Each 
country will pursue a path rooted in the culture of 
its  people  and  in  its  past  traditions. And  I  admit 
that  America  has  too  often  been  selective  in  its 
promotion of democracy.” (A/64/PV.3, p. 14) 
the 
ease 
We in St. Vincent and the Grenadines heartily endorse 
and support those words, but words without works are 
meaningless. 
the  United  States  has 

The  President  of 
to 
crippling 
considerable  discretion 
restrictions 
the  Cuban  people.  We 
imposed  on 
respectfully urge him to consider the full extent of his 
powers  in  light  of  his  indisputable  commitment  to 
multilateralism,  his  respect  for  international  law  and 
his  well-documented  efforts  to  alleviate  the  suffering 
of peoples worldwide.  

St. Vincent and the Grenadines is aware that our 
small  country,  small  population  and  small  economy, 
not to mention the waning military significance of the 
Caribbean 
region,  have  allowed  our  needs  and 
concerns to be overlooked by those who see the world 
only  through  the  prism  of  their  own  narrow  and 
immediate  interests.  However,  Cuba  has  remained  a 
staunch and abiding partner in the development of our 
country,  even  in  times  of  global  hardship.  Cuban 
universities  have  graduated  over  250  Vincentian 
students  and  are  currently  playing  host  to  150  more, 
free  of  charge.  Cuban  surgeons  have  performed 
operations  on  over  3,000  Vincentian  patients,  without 
charging  them  a  penny.  Cuban  doctors  have  brought 
quality  medical  care  and  expertise  to  the  most  remote 
areas  of  our  country.  Even  as  we  speak,  Cuban 
engineers,  architects  and  workers  are 
labouring 
alongside Vincentians  in  the  construction  of  a  modern 
hospital and our very first international airport.  
While far wealthier nations and institutions have 

looked  askance  at  our  developmental  struggles  and 
offered only dubious prescriptions, platitudes and trite 
clichés, the Cuban people  have  rolled up their sleeves 
and  given  freely  of  themselves  in  a  manner  that  has 
touched the hearts of the Vincentian people. No dollar 
11-56249 

15 


A/66/PV.41 

amount  can  adequately  reflect  the  value  of  their 
support,  solidarity  and  partnership,  for  which  the 
Cuban  people  have  asked  nothing  in  return.  Our 
appreciation cannot be overstated. 

Allow  me,  in  closing,  to  return  to  the  stirring 
words  of  President  Obama’s  inaugural  United  Nations 
address:  

“The  world  must  stand  together  to  demonstrate 
that international law is not an empty promise … 
(ibid., p. 11) 
“No  one  nation  can  or  should  try  to  dominate 
another  nation.  No  world  order  that  elevates  one 
nation  or  group  of  people  over  another  will 
succeed  …  The  traditional  divisions  between 
nations of the South and the North make no sense 
in an interconnected world, nor do alignments of 
nations  rooted  in  the  cleavages  of  a  long-gone 
Cold War.  

“The  time  has  come  to  realize  that  the  old 
habits and the old arguments are irrelevant to the 
challenges faced by our peoples.” (ibid., p. 10) 
Those  words  embody  a  promise  of  change  in 

which  we  can  wholeheartedly  believe.  Recent  events 
have reminded us that change, like peace, is often hard. 
But  not  all  aspects  of  change  are  hard.  Some  simply 
require  a  modicum  of  political  courage  and  a 
willingness  to  hear  not  the  hackneyed  sloganeering  of 
an increasingly narrow and local political interest, but 
to  heed 
and 
overwhelming  voice  of  the  international  community, 
friend and foe alike, and indeed, one’s own conscience, 
compassion and common sense. 
Mr. Ovsyanko (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): The 

delegation  of  Belarus  is  pleased  to  welcome  the 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba,  Mr.  Bruno 
Rodríguez  Parrilla,  who  is  participating  in  today’s 
meeting. 
For many decades, the overwhelming majority of 

States Members of the United Nations  have spoken in 
the  General  Assembly  to  demand  an  end  to  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  of  Cuba 
imposed by the United States . It is an uncivilized and 
unconstructive way to handle international disputes. 
We are convinced that the policy of the blockade 

against 
to 
international  law and violates principles and decisions 
freedom-loving  Cuba 
insistent,  consistent 
contrary 
instead 
the 

to  choose 
of the United Nations. The unilateral sanctions have a 
profoundly  negative  impact  on  the  living  standards  of 
the  Cuban  people,  as  well  as  on  that  country’s 
economic  development,  especially  given  the  added 
damage  of  the  current  financial  and  economic  crisis 
and the likelihood of its second wave. 

The  Republic  of  Belarus  decisively  rejects  any 
application  by  any  State  of  economic  and  trade 
measures  against  another.  We  stress  the  intrinsic  right 
of  each  nation 
its  own  model  of 
development. We consider that any unilateral attempts 
by  a  single  State  to  modify  the  domestic  political 
system of another State through economic, political or 
other measures is unacceptable. 

We  are  convinced  that  in  the  current  system  of 
international  economic  relations  there  should  be  no 
place  for  economic  sanctions  or  other  unilateral 
coercive measures to put economic pressure on a State 
or its citizens. It is time to realize that a strong people 
will never relinquish their right to choose. Determining 
one’s own path to development has a precious value.  

Today  we  are  going  to  adopt  the  twentieth 
General  Assembly  resolution  that  urges  the  United 
States  to  end  its  unilateral  and  obsolete  embargo 
against Cuba. We sincerely hope that, on this twentieth 
attempt, the voice of the General Assembly will finally 
be heard. 
the  outset,  my 

itself  with 
the 
delegation  wishes 
statements  made  earlier  by 
the  representative  of 
Argentina on behalf of the Group of 77 and China, and 
by  the  representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned Movement. 

As  we  enter  the  twentieth  year  of  debate  on  this 
agenda item in the General Assembly, Indonesia would 
like  to  reiterate  its  call  for  the  conclusion  of  the 
economic, 
unilateral 
financial 
embargo 
imposed  against  Cuba.  That  unilateral 
embargo undermines not only the principles enshrined 
in the United Nations Charter and international law, but 
also  the  rights  of  people  to  life,  well-being  and 
development  without  distinctions  of  any  kind. 
Moreover, although unilaterally imposed, the embargo 
has  impacted  the  economic  and  commercial  interests 
and relations of third countries. 

As  highlighted  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report 
(A/66/114), the embargo has severely affected the day-
(Indonesia):  At 
to  associate 
commercial, 
Mr.  Khan
and 
is 
16 

11-56249 
of 
the 
attainment 


to-day  welfare  of  Cuban  citizens. At  a  time  when  the 
world is facing serious, multifaceted challenges in the 
economic, 
food,  energy  and  other  development 
spheres,  the  embargo  poses  an  unnecessary  burden 
regarding 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals and other development goals. 

Much has changed since the initial imposition of 
the  embargo.  Globalization  has  created  the  conditions 
for  true  global  solidarity  and  partnership  in  the 
community  of  nations.  We  believe  that  lifting  the 
embargo  would  be  in  keeping  with  the  spirit  of  the 
times.  In  our  view,  the  time  is  ripe  for  relations 
between  the  two  main  parties  to  be  transformed 
through constructive engagement. 

As  a  member  of  the  international  community, 
Indonesia remains steadfast in its opposition to actions 
that  undermine  the  principles  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter.  We  call  on  all  countries  to  adhere  to  the 
principles  of  equality,  mutual 
respect,  peaceful 
coexistence,  good  neighbourliness  and  respect  for 
human rights. 
Mr.  Beck  (Solomon  Islands):  I  would  like  to 

begin  by  associating  this  statement  with  the  statement 
issued by Argentina on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
China on this agenda item. 

This  is  the  twentieth  consecutive  year  that  we 
have  gathered  in  this  Hall  to  urge  our  friend  and 
partner the United States to lift its blockade against the 
Cuban  people.  The  voices  of  187  Members  of  the 
United  Nations  family  last  year  spoke  in  lockstep 
unison on this issue. We are positive that we will do so 
again  this  year  in  connection  with  the  draft  resolution 
entitled 
economic, 
commercial  and  financial  blockade  imposed  by  the 
United States of America against Cuba” (A/66/L.4). 

The  theme  of  last  month’s  general  debate  was 
“The  role  of  mediation  in  the  settlement  of  disputes 
through  peaceful  means”.  We  ask  our  friend  and 
partner  the  United  States  of America,  a  Member  with 
absolute power within our multilateral system, to view 
its  actions  with  regard  to  the  people  of  Cuba  through 
the lens of humanity, find peace within itself and reach 
out  to  its  neighbour  Cuba  and  renew  a  friendship  that 
has been put on ice for the last five decades. 

The  world  is  changing,  and  changing  fast.  We 
speak of rights; let us uphold those rights. We speak of 
freedom;  let  us  respect  other  States’  freedom  to  adopt 
“Necessity 
ending 
the 
of 
A/66/PV.41
the 
the  members  of 
their own political system. We speak of the rule of law; 
let  us  conduct  ourselves 
in  conformity  with 
international  law.  We  speak  of  multilateralism;  let  us 
do away with unilateralism. 

Solomon  Islands,  as  a  small  island  developing 
State,  believes  in  multilateralism;  this  is  all  we  have. 
Solomon  Islands  commends  Cuba  for  taking  the  most 
peaceful path in seeking the unconditional lifting of the 
blockade  through  the  United  Nations. This  is  the  only 
place  where 
international 
community, large and small, gather to ensure that what 
is moral is upheld, what is right is respected and what 
must be undone is lifted. 

Once again, Solomon Islands will vote in support 
of  the  draft  resolution  calling  for  the  unconditional 
lifting  of  the  blockade,  and  calls  on  all  members  to 
support it as well. 
Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  We  welcome  the  participation  in  today’s 
debate  of  the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba, 
Mr. Rodríguez Parrilla. 

The Russian  delegation would like to express its 
gratitude 
his 
comprehensive report (A/66/114) presenting the views 
of Member States, which have unanimously expressed 
disagreement  with  and  rejection  of  the  unilateral  and 
extraterritorial  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo against Cuba. 

The  position  of  principle  taken  by  Russia  with 
regard  to  this  draft  resolution  is  well  known  and 
remains  unchanged.  We  express  total  solidarity  with 
the  overwhelming  majority  of  the  members  of  the 
international  community,  who  strongly  condemn  the 
trade  and  economic  embargo  against  Cuba  by  the 
United  States  and  call  for  the  earliest  repeal  of  this 
senseless  anti-Cuban  practice  that  runs  counter  to 
current international realities. 

The  anti-Cuba  blockade,  which  has  lasted  for 
almost  half  a  century,  has  clearly  demonstrated  its 
inability 
sovereign  choice  of 
development  model  made  by  the  Cuban  nation.  The 
only  consequences  of  the  sanctions  have  been  the 
deterioration  of  the  living  standards  of  the  Cuban 
population,  the  creation  of  artificial  barriers  to  its 
economic  growth,  and  an  infringement  of  the  rights 
and  interests  of  third  countries.  Such  measures  are 
counterproductive,  as  they  only  complicate  the  quest 
Secretary-General 
influence 
the 
the 
for 
to 
to 
11-56249 

17 

to 
the  outcome  sought  by 
A/66/PV.41 

for solutions to inter-State disagreements and aggravate 
an already overloaded and contentious agenda. 

For  years  now,  the  unilateral,  restrictive  United 
States  actions  against  Cuba  have  had  effects  that  are 
directly  opposite 
the 
instigators of that policy during the cold war. President 
Obama’s  Administration,  which  raised  great  and 
justified hopes regarding the adjustment of the United 
States  policy  towards  Cuba,  has  taken  only  minimal 
steps in that direction. We hope that the decision of the 
United  States  Administration  to  discontinue  certain 
restrictions  on  visits  by  United  States  citizens  to  their 
relatives in Cuba and on the sending of remittances and 
money  orders  will  be  followed  by  additional  steps 
aimed  at  normalizing  United  States-Cuban  relations 
and the final lifting of the embargo. 

We  strongly  believe  that  this  policy,  unlike  the 
discriminatory practice of economic strangulation, will 
contribute  to  the  successful  implementation  of  the 
progressive  social  and  economic  reforms  currently 
being implemented by the Cuban leadership. 

Guided  by  the  fundamental  principles  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations on the inadmissibility of 
any discriminatory measures relating to or interference 
into  the  domestic  affairs  of  States,  we  deem  it 
necessary  to  vote  in  favour  of  the  draft  resolution 
calling for a lifting of the blockade. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Bruno  Eduardo  Rodríguez  Parrilla, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba, to introduce draft 
resolution A/66/L.4. 
in 

Spanish): We wish at the outset to convey our deepest 
condolences  to  our  Central  American  brothers,  to  the 
Kingdom  of  Saudi  Arabia  and  to  the  Republic  of 
Turkey. 

On  13  November  1991,  the  General  Assembly 
took  the  decision  to  include  in  the  agenda  of  its  next 
session a discussion of the item entitled “Necessity of 
ending 
financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba”. 

That  was  when  the  United  States,  in  a  cruelly 
opportunistic  manner,  was  determined  to  tighten  the 
siege against the island, which was struggling alone as 
a  result  of  the  so-called  Torricelli  Act,  which  cut  off 
the 
our 
in  medicines  and  foodstuffs  with 
the  economic,  commercial  and 
Mr.  Rodríguez  Parrilla
(Cuba) 
(spoke 
trade 
to 
In  1996, 
led 
to 
isolation  of 
self-determination, 
right  of  peoples 
the  uncomfortable 
the  very  reasons  for 
subsidiaries of United States companies based in third 
countries. That was the official act that made public the 
extraterritorial  implementation  of  the  blockade  laws 
against third States. 

At  that  time,  it  might  have  seemed  impossible 
that  20  years  later  the  Assembly  would  still  be 
discussing the same item, which is so closely linked to 
the 
to 
international  law,  to  the  norms  of  international  trade 
and 
the  Organization’s 
existence. 

This  is  one  of  the  items  that  is  traditionally 
discussed  by  the  General  Assembly  and  gives  rise  to 
the  greatest  number  of  reiterated  statements.  It  also 
receives categorical and overwhelming support, clearly 
demonstrating 
the 
aggressor country and the heroic resistance of a people 
that refuses to give up its sovereign rights. 
For two decades, the international community has 

invariably  and  consistently  called  for  an  end  to  the 
economic, commercial and financial blockade imposed 
by  the  United  States  against  Cuba.  It  has  done  so  by 
means  of  the  resolutions  that  are  adopted  almost 
unanimously  every  year,  by  the  dozens  of  appeals 
issued  by  heads  of  State  and  delegations  that  have 
referred  to  this  item  during  the  high-level  general 
debate of the Assembly, and by the statements made by 
virtually  all  international  agencies  and  groups  of 
States,  particularly  those  of  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean. 
to  an 

unprecedented  expansion  of  the  extraterritorial  scope 
of the blockade and laid the groundwork for a “change 
of regime” and subsequent direct intervention in Cuba. 
No one seems to have noticed that the 2004 “Bush plan 
for Cuba” has been left by the wayside. 

The  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  this  item 
(A/66/114), which includes the statements of more than 
160  countries  and  specialized  agencies  of  the  United 
Nations 
this 
continuing and cruel policy and on its direct effects on 
the  people  and  the  economy  of  Cuba.  The  direct 
economic  damage  caused  to  the  Cuban  people  as  a 
result  of  the  blockade  exceeds  $975  billion,  estimated 
at the depreciated United States dollar value compared 
to that of gold.  
system,  comprehensively 
the  Helms-Burton  Act 
illustrates 
18 

11-56249 
is 
the 
to  Cuba, 
According 



Article II, subparagraphs (b) and (c), of the 1948 
Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of  the 
Crime  of  Genocide  defines  as  acts  of  genocide 
“causing serious bodily or mental harm to members of 
the  group”  and  “deliberately  inflicting  on  the  group 
conditions of life calculated to bring about its physical 
destruction in whole or in part”.  

memorandum  of  6  April  1960, 
objectives have been to cause  

to  a  United  States  Government 
the  blockade’s 
to  overthrow 
“disenchantment  and  disaffection  based  on 
economic  dissatisfaction  and  hardship  …  to 
weaken  the  economic  life  of  Cuba  …  denying 
money  and  supplies 
to  decrease 
monetary  and  real  wages,  to  bring  about  hunger, 
desperation and overthrow of government.”  
The  United  States  has  never  hidden  the  fact  that 

its  objective 
revolutionary 
Government and to destroy the constitutional order that 
the  Cuban  people  defend  in  sovereignty.  That  is  what 
former  President  George  W.  Bush  called  “regime 
change”, which has now acquired new dimensions. 

Despite  the  false  image  of  flexibility  that  the 
current  United  States  Administration  tries  to  portray, 
the  blockade  and  the  sanctions  remain  intact,  fully 
implemented,  and  their  extraterritorial  character  has 
intensified  in  recent  years.  The  increased  persecution 
of Cuban financial  transactions across the world, with 
complete disregard  for the  laws of third  countries  and 
the  opposition  of  their  Governments,  has  become  a 
distinct feature of the Obama Administration.  

Cuba  is  still  unable  to  freely  export  or  import 
products  and  services  of  any  sort  to  and  from  the 
United States. Cuba cannot use American dollars in its 
transactions,  not  even  to  pay  its  contributions  to  the 
United Nations and to other international agencies. Nor 
can  Cuba  hold  accounts  in  that  currency  in  banks  in 
third  countries  or  have  access  to  credit  from  banks  in 
the  United  States  or  from  any  of  their  subsidiaries  in 
third  countries  or  from  international  institutions,  such 
as the World Bank or the Inter-American Development 
Bank.  

The  ban  on  trade  with  American  companies’ 
subsidiaries  in  third  countries  still  cannot  be  altered. 
Entrepreneurs  from  other  countries  who  are  interested 
in  investing  in  my  country  continue  to  be  sanctioned, 
threatened or blacklisted.  
A/66/PV.41
for 
the 
intended 
combating 

International  organizations  and  agencies  and 
programmes  of  the  United  Nations  system  are  not 
spared from this policy. The United States Government 
hinders  the  cooperation  that  those  entities  offer  to 
Cuba,  including  that  intended  for  extremely  sensitive 
areas.  Clear  evidence  of  that  is  the  confiscation  in 
January  of  $4,207,000  in  financing  from  the  Global 
Fund  to  Fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and  Malaria  to 
implement  projects  of  cooperation  with  Cuba,  which 
was 
acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome and tuberculosis. 

As  a  result  of  Cuba’s  denunciation,  the  United 
States Treasury Department issued a general licence in 
May this year to release those funds. That licence will 
expire  on  30  June  2015.  But  the  very  fact  that  the 
resources  allocated  by  that  humanitarian  organization 
require  a  United  States  Government  licence  to  reach 
Cuba  shows  —  in  addition  to  the  intent  to  use  these 
sensitive programmes as hostages of that Government’s 
aggressive  policy  against  my  country  —  flagrantly 
disrespectful behaviour towards the United Nations and 
its  various  agencies.  Several  cooperation  projects 
carried out by the International Atomic Energy Agency 
have also been victims of the blockade. 

In the midst of a supposed relaxation that allows 
some  groups  of  Americans  to  travel  to  Cuba,  the 
Treasury  Department  very  recently  denied 
travel 
permits  to  two  important  United  States  non-governmental 
organizations that for years have been cooperating with 
Cuban  institutions  in  the  area  of  health  care.  That 
decision could prevent donations of medicines that are 
unavailable  in  our  country  because  of  the  blockade 
from  reaching  their  destination.  The  truth  is  that  the 
freedom  of  travel  of  Americans  continues  to  be 
hampered,  and  Cuba  remains  the  only  forbidden 
destination.  

States 
representatives have indicated here that the item we are 
discussing  today  is  a  bilateral  issue  and  therefore 
should not be discussed in this forum. They are likely 
to  reiterate  the  same  fallacious  argument  here  today. 
The  facts  prove 
inconsistency.  Citizens  and 
companies  from  numerous  Member  States  represented 
here  have  been  subject  to  sanctions  for  establishing 
economic relations with Cuba. 

What  is  represented  by  the  fines  imposed  on 
18 August on the subsidiary of the French shipping and 
transportation  company  CMA  CGM  for  offering 
occasions, 
several 
United 
the 
On 
11-56249 

19 

facilitates  electronic 
A/66/PV.41 

container  services  to  Cuba,  if  not  the  extraterritorial 
nature  of  that  policy?  How  could  we  describe  the 
demands  imposed  by  the  European  subsidiary  of 
PayPal,  which 
transactions 
through  the  Internet,  on  the  German  firm  Rum  & 
Company to force it to remove Cuban rum and tobacco 
from its web page?  

There  have  been  countless  examples  of  the 
extraterritorial implementation of that policy, as can be 
seen  in  Cuba’s  reply  contained  in  the  Secretary-
General’s report. 

President  Obama’s  most  recent  statements  about 
Cuba  have  left  quite  a  few  observers  astonished,  but 
they  come  as  no  surprise  to  us.  President  Obama’s 
response  to  the  Cuban  Government’s  offer  of  a 
dialogue on all topics of interest on the bilateral agenda 
has  been,  once  again,  a  non-committal  refusal,  based 
on  absurd  arguments  and  unacceptable  conditions  that 
have  never  worked.  His  position  is  old,  repetitive  and 
anchored  in  the  past.  It  is  as  if,  instead  the  President 
elected  to  bring  about  change,  his  predecessors  were 
speaking  for  him,  including  Republican  predecessors. 
He  seemed  misinformed,  completely  unaware  of  what 
is  going  on  in  our  country,  of  our  history  and  of  our 
culture. 

Cuba  experienced  great  change  in  1959.  At  the 
cost of 20,000 lives, it swept away the dictatorship of 
Batista, the United States’ strongman. Since then, Cuba 
has  continued  to  change  day  by  day,  and  thanks  to  its 
capacity  for  renewal  it  has  been  able  to  resist.  Others 
did not resist because they did not change, or because 
they were inflexible or drifted. Now, Cuba is changing 
and  will  resolutely  change  everything  that  should  be 
changed  within  the  revolution  and  within  socialism: 
more  revolution  and  improved  socialism.  The  only 
thing that has not changed over the past 50 years is the 
blockade  and  the  hostile  and  aggressive  policy  of  the 
United  States,  despite  the  fact  that  it  has  not  worked, 
nor will it. 

However,  what  the  United  States  Government 
wants  to  see  changed  will  not  change.  The  Cuban 
Government will continue to be the Government of the 
people, by the people and for the people. Our elections 
will  not  be  auctions.  There  will  be  no  $4  billion 
election  campaigns  nor  a  parliament  supported  by 
13 per cent of voters. We will not have corrupt political 
elites separate from the people. We will continue being 
a true democracy, not a plutocracy. We will defend the 
right to true and objective information. 

We  will  continue  our  fight  for  full  justice.  We 
will protect equal opportunities for every child, and we 
will  not  abandon  anyone.  We  will  not  renounce  our 
social  policies.  Health  and  education  will  continue  to 
be universal and free of charge. We will guarantee the 
right  to  work,  decent  retirement  and  social  security. 
There will continue to be equal pay for equal work. We 
will protect pregnant women and the disabled. Human 
beings will continue to be the first and most important 
thing. We will defend our culture. We will continue to 
believe in human values. The exercise of human rights 
will be fully guaranteed for all Cubans. 

The economy will have to be efficient, but it will 
continue  to  be  in  the  service  of  the  people.  People’s 
lives  are,  and  will  continue  to  be,  far  more  important 
than macroeconomic data. The people will continue to 
be  consulted  on  economic  policies.  The  consequences 
of the global economic crisis will be shared by all. We 
will  continue  redistributing  wealth  so  that  there  are 
neither  rich  nor  poor. We  will  not  allow  corruption  or 
speculation,  nor  will  we  steal  money  from  workers  to 
bail  out  banks.  We  will  continue 
the 
participation  of  foreign  companies  in  our  economy 
without any exceptions. 

It  would  suffice  to  review  the  recent  disclosures 
made  by  Wikileaks  about  the  work  of  the  State 
Department and American embassies in all countries to 
hinder political, diplomatic, economic, commercial and 
cooperative  relations  with  Cuba.  They  are  disgraceful 
because  of  their  content  —  the  information  about  the 
concern, 
the 
humanitarian work being carried out by Cuban medical 
brigades,  which  nobly  and  selflessly  serve  millions  of 
peoples in dozens of sister nations. 

Family ties and the limited cultural, academic and 
scientific  exchanges  between  the  United  States  and 
Cuba  show  today  what  a  positive  step  it  would  be  to 
expand  those  links  for  the  benefit  of  both  peoples, 
without  the  obstacles  and  conditions  imposed  by 
Washington, D.C. Cuba’s proposal for moving towards 
the  normalization  of  relations  and  expanding  bilateral 
cooperation  in  a  range  of  areas  still  stands.  Making 
reciprocal  efforts  to  resolve  pending  humanitarian 
issues would likewise be in our common interest. 
Why  does  President  Obama’s Administration  not 

better  concern  itself  with  the  problems  of  the  United 
in  and  persecution  of 
to  seek 
the 
interest 
20 

11-56249 
in 
the 
and 
legal  proceedings 


States  and  leave  us  Cubans  alone  to  solve  ours  in 
peace? 

One  of  the  five  Cuban  antiterrorist  fighters  has 
just finished serving every minute of his unjust 13-year 
prison  sentence,  yet  he  is  now  being  prevented  from 
returning to Cuba and reuniting with his family, while 
the  other  four  continue  to  endure  a  cruel  and  unjust 
incarceration  as  political  prisoners.  The  blatant 
corruption 
the 
Government’s  illegal  conduct  throughout  is  widely 
known and has been well documented. Why not release 
them as an act of justice, or at least as a humanitarian 
gesture?  

I  must  convey  the  profound  gratitude  of  the 
people of Cuba to all of the countries that for 20 years 
have used their voices and their votes to call for an end 
to  the  most  unjust,  long-lasting  and  comprehensive 
unilateral  sanctions  in  history,  which  have  caused  so 
much harm to millions of Cubans. 

I  speak  on  behalf  of  16-year-old  Guillermo 
Domínguez  Díaz,  18-year-old  Ivis  Palacio  Terry, 
17-year-old  Randy  Barroso  Torres,  and  12-year-old 
Adrián 
Izquierdo  Cabrera,  who  have  undergone 
conservative  surgeries  and  spent  months  confined  to 
bed,  wearing  casts,  because  hospitals  have  no 
paediatric 
are 
manufactured in the United States or under its patents. 
I  speak  on  behalf  of  María  Amelia  Alonso  Valdés, 
2 years  of  age,  Damián  Hernández  Valdés,  4,  and 
Dayán Romayena Lorente, 12, who suffer from central 
nervous  system  tumours  and  who  need  to  be  treated 
with  Temodal,  a  drug  manufactured  in  the  United 
States  and  protected  by  its  patents.  On  behalf  of  my 
selfless, generous, optimistic and heroic people and for 
the  good  of  the  community  of  nations  and  the 
equilibrium of the world, I ask the Assembly to support 
draft resolution A/66/L.4, entitled “Necessity of ending 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America  against 
Cuba”. 
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 

the  debate  on  this  item.  We  shall  now  proceed  to 
consider draft resolution A/66/L.4. 

Before giving the floor to speakers in explanation 
of vote before the vote, may I remind delegations that 
explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to  10 minutes  and 
should be made by delegations from their seats. 
prostheses,  which 
expandable 
A/66/PV.41
its  economic 
Mr. Godard (United States of America): For yet 

another  year,  the  Assembly  is  taking  up  a  draft 
resolution  designed  to  confuse  and  obscure.  But  let 
there be no confusion about this: the United States, like 
most  Member  States,  reaffirms  its  strong  commitment 
to  supporting  the  right  and  the  heartfelt  desire  of  the 
Cuban people to freely determine their future. And let 
there  be  no  obscuring  that  the  Cuban  regime  has 
deprived  them  of  that  right  for  more  than  half  a 
century. 

At  the  same  time,  the  United  States  strongly 
asserts  its  sovereign  right,  on  the  same  basis  as  other 
Member  States,  to  determine  its  bilateral  policies, 
including 
relationships  with  other 
countries, in accordance with its own national interests 
and  values.  This  includes  our  economic  relationships 
with  other  countries.  The  United  States’  economic 
relationship  with  Cuba  is  a  bilateral  issue  and  is  not 
appropriately a concern of the Assembly. 

The embargo represents just one aspect of United 
States policy towards Cuba, whose overarching goal is 
to  encourage  a  more  open  environment  in  Cuba  and 
increased  respect  for  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms  —  principles  to  which  this  Organization  is 
also dedicated. 
This  annual  exercise  attempts  to  no  good  end  to 

obscure 
truths.  The  Cuban 
Government’s  own  policies,  not  any  action  of  the 
United States Government, are the greatest obstacle to 
Cuba’s 
economic  development.  Those  policies 
concentrate  political  and  economic  decisions  in  the 
hands  of  the  few,  stifling  economic  growth.  They 
ignore the basic principles, so effectively demonstrated 
in  many  countries,  that  policies  that  allow  individual 
freedom  unleash 
the  creativity  of  people,  foster 
innovation  and  entrepreneurship,  and  are  the  best 
means to achieve sustainable economic development.  

This  exercise  conceals  the  fact  that  the  United 
States is a leading source of food and humanitarian aid 
to  Cuba.  The  United  States  does  not 
restrict 
humanitarian  aid 
to  Cuba.  Cubans  receive  food, 
medicine,  other  forms  of  assistance  and  remittances 
from  the  United  States.  In  the  year  2010,  the  United 
States Government authorized $3.5 billion in total sales 
to  Cuba  of  United  States  goods.  In  agricultural 
products 
exported 
$361.7 million  in  goods  to  Cuba  in  2010,  including 
the  United 
fundamental 
alone, 
States 
some 
11-56249 

21 
A/66/PV.41 

poultry, soy bean products, corn, wheat, feed products, 
pork and other items.  

Indeed,  as  the  Cuban  Government  itself  has 
repeatedly  indicated,  the  United  States  has  for  years 
been  one  of  Cuba’s  principal  trading  partners.  The 
United  States  in  2010  also  authorized  $861  million  in 
private  humanitarian  assistance  in  the  form  of  gift 
parcels filled with food and other basic necessities, as 
well  as non-agricultural and medical  donations. Those 
figures  alone  are  sufficient  to  rebut  the  spurious 
allegations  of  genocide  against  the  Cuban  people 
contained  in  previous  resolutions  recalled  in  the 
current  draft  (A/66/L.4)  and  to  demonstrate  that  this 
calumny  greatly  misuses  that  important  term  and 
insults the true victims of genocide. 

This  draft  resolution  and  much  of  the  stale 
rhetoric  surrounding  it  ignores  some  basic  facts.  As 
President  Obama  made  clear  last  month,  the  United 
States  is  open  to  a  new  relationship  with  Cuba  if  the 
Cuban  Government  starts  taking  proper  steps  to  open 
up its country and provide the space and the respect for 
human  rights  that  would  allow  the  Cuban  people  to 
determine  their  own  destiny.  The  Cuban  Government 
also  needs  to  release  unconditionally  and  immediately 
the 62-year-old American citizen Alan Gross, whom it 
sentenced to 15 years of prison for the crime of trying 
to connect Cuba’s Jewish communities to the Internet. 

The  President  in  January  2011  implemented 
several  significant  changes  to  United  States  policy 
towards  Cuba,  aimed  at  increasing  people-to-people 
contact, supporting civil society in Cuba, enhancing the 
free flow of information to, from and among the Cuban 
people  and  helping  promote  their  independence  from 
Cuban  authorities.  Those  changes  build  upon  the 
President’s  previous  actions 
in  April  2009  and 
demonstrate  the  strong  commitment  of  the  United 
States  to  the  Cuban  people,  contrary  to  the  picture 
painted in the draft resolution. 

The United States looks forward to a still greater 
broadening of contacts and exchange with Cuba, and is 
prepared to do its part to that end. However, improving 
the  situation  requires  efforts  on  the  part  of  the  Cuban 
Government  as  well.  It  must  ensure  that  the  Cuban 
people  enjoy  the  internationally  recognized  political 
and  economic  freedoms 
is 
committed and on which it has insisted with regard to 
other countries. 
this  body 
to  which 


Because  the  draft  resolution  does  not  reflect 
present realities, my delegation will vote against it. We 
strongly  believe  that  this  body,  instead  of  engaging  in 
such  meaningless  exercises,  should  dedicate  itself  to 
supporting  the  efforts  of  the  Cuban  people  to  freely 
determine  their  own  future.  Only  by  that  course  can 
this body truly advance the purposes and principles of 
the Charter of the United Nations. 
Mr.  Hermida  Castillo  (Nicaragua)  (spoke  in 

Spanish): For the twentieth year in a row, the General 
Assembly  will  deliver  its  judgement  and  demand  an 
end to the criminal and inhumane blockade against the 
heroic, generous people and Government of Cuba. Yet 
again,  we  have  heard  a  representative  of  the  United 
States of America attempt to justify that which cannot 
be justified in order to force the submission of a people 
that  will  never  submit,  a  people  whose  resolve  is 
absolute  —  a  people,  as  Commandante  Fidel  recently 
remarked, whose will is made of steel. 

Nicaragua  would  like  once  again  to  publically 
express  its  commitment  to  and  support  for  the  draft 
resolution entitled “Necessity of ending the economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United  States  of  America  against  Cuba”  (A/66/L.4), 
which  was  introduced  by  our  colleague  Mr.  Bruno 
Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Cuba, to whom we express our unconditional solidarity 
and  our  gratitude  for  the  updated  information  on  the 
damage and prejudicial harm that the United States of 
America continues to inflict on the Cuban people with 
the most criminal blockade in the history of humanity. 

Nicaragua  expresses  its  eternal  gratitude  to  the 
Cuban  people  and  Government  for  their  unwavering 
and  unconditional  militant  solidarity  whose  primary 
goal is to help countries in development. We also wish 
to thank Commandante Fidel Castro, who joined forces 
with Commandante Chávez to undertake a great project 
of  solidarity,  reciprocity,  social  justice,  fair  trade,  life 
and peace in our Latin America and the Caribbean that 
is  today  embodied  in  the  Bolivarian  Alliance  for  the 
Peoples of Our America.  

The  fruits  of  that  project  are  palpable  and 
undeniable  in  the  form  of  reduced  poverty,  the  near 
eradication  of  illiteracy,  the  millions  of  people  whose 
sight has been restored thanks to Misión Milagros, and 
the medical and scientific brigades that have improved 
the quality of life in our countries. Those are just a few 
of  the  accomplishments  achieved  in  a  short  time,  and 
11-56249 
22 

that 
This 
inhumane  policy  of 
their  Socialist  revolution 


despite the impact of the  criminal  embargo and of the 
international  crisis  generated  and  created  by 
the 
capitalist economies.  

The  peoples  and  Governments  of  the  world 
represented  here  will  always  stand  with  Cuba,  our 
brother country and brother Government. We recognize 
its heroism, its solidarity, its humanism, its generosity 
and  its  commitment  at  those  moments  when  our 
peoples have needed the friendly hand of brothers and 
sisters.  Who  else  but  Cuba  has  been  the  first  to  step 
forward  when  one  of  our  peoples  has  had  a  need  and 
sought  unconditional  human  solidarity,  whether  in 
matters  of  health  or  education,  or  in  the  face  of  the 
blows of climate change? 

It is precisely because of the determination of the 
Cuban  people  and  Government  always  to  stand  with 
the  world’s  poor  that  they  are  being  attacked  and 
blockaded  and 
is 
threatened with destruction. 

the  United  States 
Government,  which  is  continuing  to  implement  this 
criminal  embargo  against  the  brotherly  and  beloved 
people and Government of Cuba, must end now. It has 
been  clearly  shown 
these 
measures,  which  are  aimed  at  breaking  the  spirit  of 
independence,  self-determination  and 
international 
solidarity that is characteristic of the Cuban people and 
Government. It is time to rectify the situation, as these 
measures  violate 
law,  human  rights, 
humanitarian  law  and  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations. It is time that an end be put to the belief that 
they  will  break  the  steely  resolve  and  the  social  spirit 
of the Cuban revolution. 

Even  the  people  of  the  United  States  do  not 
support the embargo. Every day more voices are being 
heard from that country demanding that an end be put 
to  this  absurd  and  inhumane  policy.  One  such  United 
States  voice  calling  for  peace  and  reconciliation  was 
that  of  Reverend  Lucius  Walker,  whom  we  warmly 
remember  for  his  determined  humanism  dedicated  to 
putting  an  end  to  the  blockade  against  Cuba,  along 
with the Pastors for Peace and their Peace Caravans. 
Latin America and the Caribbean strongly support 

Cuba,  which  is  resolutely  and  firmly,  in  a  spirit  of 
creativity, resisting the embargo — this outdated policy 
of  intervention  in  our  region.  Our  region  will  go 
forward,  hand  in  hand  with  its  sister  country  Cuba, 
that  no  one  supports 
international 
A/66/PV.41
the  people  and 
terrorist  acts  against 
until  the  Government  of  the  United  States  reflects  on 
and rectifies its historic error. 

The  United  States,  by  not  implementing  the 
resolutions  of  the  General Assembly,  is  continuing  to 
worsen  the  suffering  of  the  brotherly  Cuban  people. 
The  priority  sectors  most  affected  by  the  embargo  are 
public health, food and education. 

There have been other major economic sanctions 
and other forms of persecution against Cuban business 
and  financial  transactions.  Nothing  has  changed  that 
would  lighten  the  burden  on  the  people  of  Cuba.  On 
the  contrary,  there  has  been  a  strengthening  of  the 
policy  of  strangulation  against  Cuba.  The  embargo 
remains  the  main  obstacle  to  the  economic  and  social 
development  of  Cuba.  It  is  high  time  for  the  United 
States to put an end to this criminal embargo and also 
to  stop  helping  self-confessed  terrorists  who  continue 
to  move  freely  in  North American  cities  and  together 
plan 
the 
Government of Cuba. 

No  longer  is  anyone  fooled  by  the  more  than 
50 years  of  terrorist  acts  against  the  people  and  the 
Government of Cuba. A gesture would be welcomed by 
the people of the world would be the immediate freeing 
of  the  four  Cuban  heroic  patriots  imprisoned  in  the 
United States and the immediate return to his homeland 
of  the  heroic  René  González,  who  has  been  on 
conditional  release  but  must  remain  in  the  United 
States  for  years. This  is  an  offence  against  justice  not 
to  free  these  heroes,  who  have  defended  their  country 
with dignity and courage in the face of terrorist attacks 
perpetrated  from  the  territory  of  the  United  States  of 
America.  We  demand  the  immediate  release  of  these 
Cuban  anti-terrorist  heroes. We  convey  our  Sandinista 
greetings  to  them  and  to  their  families,  and  our 
immense  respect  for these  brothers, sons of Martí  and 
of the unwavering Cuban revolution. 

to  express  once  again  our 
strongest  condemnation  of  the  embargo  against  Cuba 
and of all coercive measures of a unilateral nature with 
extraterritorial  effect,  which  contravene  international 
law  and  the  accepted  norms  of  free  trade.  These  are 
practices that not only pose a grave threat to peace and 
multilateralism  and  represent  an  insult  to  human 
values; 
to  mutual 
understanding  among  and  the  well-being  of  nations. 
We  thus  condemn  the  use  of  unilateral  coercive 
measures  such  as  illegal  sanctions  against  developing 
they  are  also  an  obstacle 
We  would 
like 
11-56249 

23 
the 
isolation  of 
A/66/PV.41 

countries  aimed  at  preventing  them  from  exercising 
their  right  to  determine  their  own  political,  economic 
and social system. 
Once again Nicaragua will vote in favour of draft 

resolution  A/66/L.4,  as  will  almost 
the  entire 
international  community  represented  here.  We  will  be 
witnesses  once  again  of 
the 
Government  of  the  United  States  and  of  its  policy  of 
always  being  on  the  opposite  side  of  those  who  wish 
for  peace.  The  international  community  will  thus 
reiterate once again its message of peace and its strong 
support for Cuba in defence of its sovereignty and self-
determination and in defence of its heroic revolution. 

explanation of vote before the voting. 

resolution A/66/L.4.  


In favour: 

A recorded vote has been requested. 
A recorded vote was taken. 
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
The Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, Belgium, Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Botswana,  Brazil, 
Brunei  Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso, 
Burundi,  Cambodia,  Cameroon,  Canada,  Cape 
Verde,  Central  African  Republic,  Chad,  Chile, 
China,  Colombia,  Comoros,  Congo,  Costa  Rica, 
Côte  d’Ivoire,  Croatia,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Czech 
Republic,  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea,  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo, 
Denmark,  Djibouti,  Dominica,  Dominican 
Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  El 
Salvador, 
Equatorial  Guinea,  Eritrea,  Estonia,  Ethiopia, 
Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Gabon,  Gambia,  Georgia, 
Germany,  Ghana,  Greece,  Grenada,  Guatemala, 
Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, 
Hungary,  Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic 
Republic of), Iraq, Ireland, Italy, Jamaica, Japan, 
Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kiribati,  Kuwait, 
Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic, 
Latvia, Lebanon, Lesotho, Liberia, Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Madagascar,  Malawi, 
Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Malta,  Mauritania, 
Mauritius,  Mexico,  Monaco,  Mongolia, 

Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Myanmar, 
Namibia,  Nauru,  Nepal,  Netherlands,  New 
Zealand,  Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Norway, 
Oman,  Pakistan,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea, 
Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal, 
Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova, 
Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Rwanda,  Saint 
Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and 
the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Sao  Tome 
and  Principe,  Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Serbia, 
Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Singapore,  Slovakia, 
Slovenia,  Solomon 
Islands,  Somalia,  South 
Africa,  South  Sudan,  Spain,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan, 
Suriname,  Swaziland,  Switzerland,  Syrian  Arab 
Republic,  Tajikistan,  Thailand, 
former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-Leste, 
Togo,  Tonga,  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Tunisia, 
Turkey, Turkmenistan, Tuvalu,  Uganda,  Ukraine, 
United Arab  Emirates, United Kingdom of Great 
Britain and Northern Ireland, United Republic of 
Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Vanuatu, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe 
the 
Israel, United States of America 
Against: 

Abstaining: 



Marshall  Islands,  Micronesia  (Federated  States 
of), Palau 
Draft  resolution  A/66/L.4  was  adopted  by  186 
votes to 2, with 3 abstentions (resolution 66/6).
[Subsequently, the delegation of Sweden advised 
the  Secretariat  that  it  had  intended  to  vote  in 
favour.] 
The  President:  Before  giving 
the  floor 
to 

speakers in explanation of vote after the voting, may I 
remind  delegations  that  explanations  of  vote  are 
limited 
to  10  minutes  and  should  be  made  by 
delegations from their seats. 
Mr. Sobków (Poland): I have the honour to speak 

on behalf of the States members of the European Union 
(EU).  The  candidate  countries  Croatia,  the  former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia and Montenegro; the 
countries  of  the  Stabilization  and Association  Process 
and  potential  candidates  Albania  and  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina; as well as the Republic of Moldova align 
themselves with this explanation of vote. 
24 

11-56249 



In 
the 
framework  of 
Mr.  Archondo  (Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia), 
Vice-President, took the Chair. 

The  United  States  trade  policy  towards  Cuba  is 
fundamentally  a  bilateral  issue.  However,  American 
legislation, such as the Cuban Democracy Act of 1992 
and  the  Helms-Burton  Act  of  1996,  has  extended  the 
effects  of  the  United  States  embargo  to  third-party 
countries. 
its  Common 
Commercial Policy, the European Union has firmly and 
continuously opposed such extraterritorial measures. 
While  recognizing  the  decision  of  the  United 

States  Government  to  lift  restrictions  on  remittances 
and  family  travel  to  Cuba,  we  cannot  accept  that 
unilaterally  imposed  measures  impede  our  economic 
and  commercial  relations  with  Cuba.  To  address  this 
problem,  the  European  Union  Council  of  Ministers 
adopted,  in  November  1996,  a  regulation  and  a  joint 
action  to  protect  the  interests  of  natural  or  legal 
persons residing in Europe against the consequences of 
these  Acts.  Furthermore,  at  the  May  1998  European 
Union-United  States  summit,  held 
in  London,  a 
package  was  agreed  that  also  sought  to  alleviate  the 
problems  with  extraterritorial  legislation.  It  covered 
waivers to titles III and IV of the Helms-Burton Act, a 
commitment by the United States Government to resist 
future  extraterritorial  legislation  of  that  kind,  and  an 
understanding 
the 
strengthening of investment protection. It is urgent that 
the United States implement that agreement.  

The  European  Union’s  policy  towards  Cuba  was 
set out in a common position in 1996. Reaffirming the 
validity  of  that  common  position,  in  June  2008  the 
European Union lifted the restrictive measures imposed 
on Cuba in 2003. The dialogue with the authorities in 
Havana was resumed without preconditions and on the 
basis  of  reciprocity  and  non-discrimination.  Five 
political  dialogue  ministerial  sessions  have  been  held 
with  the  Cuban  Government  to  address  issues  of 
common  interest,  including  human  rights,  which  is  a 
question at the core of relations with all third countries, 
including Cuba. 
We reaffirm our determination to pursue a results-

oriented  comprehensive  dialogue  with 
the  Cuban 
authorities,  as  well  as  with  representatives  of  civil 
society  and  peaceful  pro-democracy  opposition,  in 
accordance with EU policies. We reiterate the right of 
Cuban citizens to independently decide their future. 
disciplines 
regarding 
for 
A/66/PV.41
to 
to  ratify 
its  citizens 
information; 

We are encouraged by the release of all political 
prisoners from the group of 75 who were imprisoned in 
2003,  together  with  other  political  prisoners.  We 
reiterate  our  call  on  the  Cuban  Government  to  fully 
grant 
internationally  recognized  civil, 
political  and  economic  rights  and  freedoms,  including 
the  freedom  of  assembly  and  expression  and  free 
access 
the  International 
Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights  and 
the 
International  Covenant  on  Economic,  Social  and 
Cultural Rights; and, following the visit of the United 
Nations  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  right  to  food,  to 
extend invitations to other rapporteurs to visit Cuba. 

The  existing  restrictions  on  rights  and  freedoms 
undermine  and  offset  Cuban  achievements  in  health 
care  and  education.  Similarly,  Cuba’s  domestic 
economic  policy  seriously  hampers  its  own  economic 
development. In that context, we note the adoption by 
the  Cuban  Parliament  in  August  of  a  package  of 
economic and social reforms, and expect that these will 
be  extended  and  implemented  in  a  manner  that  will 
address the key concerns of the Cuban population. 

The economic, commercial and financial embargo 
imposed  by  the  United  States  contributes  to  the 
economic  problems  in  Cuba,  negatively  affecting  the 
living  standards  of  the  Cuban  people.  The  European 
Union  therefore  believes  that  the  lifting  of  the  United 
States embargo would open the Cuban economy to the 
benefit  of  the  Cuban  people.  Together,  we  again 
express our rejection of all unilateral measures directed 
against  Cuba  that  are  contrary  to  the  commonly 
accepted  rules  of  international  trade.  We  urge  the 
Cuban authorities to bring about real improvements in 
all areas mentioned.  

In  spite  of  continued  concerns  and  criticisms 
about  the  human  rights  situation  in  Cuba,  the  States 
members of the European Union unanimously voted in 
favour of resolution 66/6. 
Ms.  Nujoma  (Namibia):  This  year  marks  the 

twentieth  anniversary  since  the  presentation  of  the 
resolution that we have just adopted (resolution 66/6), 
but  the  blockade  against  Cuba  is  still  in  place.  This 
stands in stark contrast to the overwhelming appeal by 
the  international  community  to  end  this  unjust  policy 
against  the  people  of  Cuba.  In  fact,  this  debate  would 
not  have  been  necessary  had  the  United  States  lifted 
the blockade years ago. 
11-56249 

25 
for 
implications 
A/66/PV.41 


My  delegation  voted  in  favour  of  the  resolution 
under  agenda  item  41,  “Necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by  the  United  States  of  America  against  Cuba”, 
because  we  believe  in  the  principle  of  peaceful 
coexistence  among  nations,  respect  for  sovereign 
equality, open trade among nations and, above all, the 
spirit  of  good-neighbourliness.  The  imposition  of  the 
blockade  against  Cuba 
is  an  outdated  form  of 
punishment. 

My  delegation  remains  concerned  about  the 
promulgation  and  application  of  laws  and  measures 
constituting  an  economic,  commercial  or  financial 
embargo against any friendly and peaceful country. We 
believe  that  the  measures  imposed  against  Cuba  have 
serious  negative 
the  overall 
development and well-being of the people of Cuba.  

For  many  years,  the  General  Assembly  has, 
through  its  resolutions  on  this  item,  consistently 
rejected  those  sanctions  and  called  for  an  end  to  the 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  against  the 
people  of  Cuba.  The  blockade  is  negatively  affecting 
the  economy  and  people  of  Cuba,  especially  women 
and children. It is therefore unfortunate that, today, the 
blockade remains intact and that the General Assembly 
is still seized of this issue. 

My  delegation  has  always  maintained  the  view 
that  the  blockade  against  Cuba  runs  counter  to  the 
spirit  of  the  United  Nations  Charter,  international  law 
and the Millennium Declaration (resolution 55/2). The 
same  blockade  continues  to  cause  irreparable  damage 
to  the  economic,  social  and  cultural  development  of 
Cuba, as it deprives its people of the opportunities and 
benefits emanating from free trade. 
The  Torricelli  and  Helms-Burton  Acts  are 

extraterritorial  in  nature  and  thus  interfere  with  the 
sovereign rights of Cuba and violate the principles and 
rules of the international trading system. The blockade 
cannot be called an exclusive bilateral affair because it 
impacts  numerous  countries.  The 
the 
Secretary-General highlights those points of concern. 

We  are  convinced  that  the  people  of  the  two 
neighbouring  countries  would  both  stand  to  benefit 
from the normalization of relations and the removal of  

report  of 

restrictions  between  them. The  United  States  Government 
should  therefore  heed  the  appeal  of  the  international 
community  to  end  the  blockade  and  promote  good 
relations and neighbourliness with the Government and 
the people of Cuba. 

In  our  view,  all  human  rights,  whether  political, 
cultural or economic, are inseparable. They include the 
right to  food, health and education and, above all, the 
right to development. Through the blockade, the people 
of Cuba are being denied those fundamental rights, just 
because of the political system they have chosen. 

Guided  by  our  conviction  that  the  blockade 
against  Cuba  is  a  denial  of  the  rights  I  have  just 
highlighted,  Namibia  voted  in  favour  of  the  draft 
resolution  on  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America  against  Cuba.  We  did  so  to  express  our 
solidarity  with  the  people  of  Cuba,  and  we  hope  that 
the  United  States  will  listen  to  the  international 
community’s appeal to end the blockade against Cuba. 
Mr.  Kapambwe  (Zambia):  Every  time  the  issue 

of  lifting  the  United  States  sanctions  on  Cuba  comes 
up,  I  am  reminded  of  Humpty  Dumpty,  who  said, 
“Words mean only that which I want them to mean”.  

is 
democracy,  if  the  universal  resolutions  of  the  General 
Assembly  that  call  on  the  United  States  to  lift  the 
sanctions on Cuba are routinely ignored? When we talk 
about the rule of law, what is the rule of law, if General 
Assembly resolutions that have declared United States 
sanctions  illegal  continue  to  be  ignored?  Is  the  law  a 
law only when one decides that it is law? When we talk 
about  the  sovereign  equality  of  States  in  the  United 
Nations,  is  it  equality  only  when  it  involves  those 
whom  we  like?  When  we  talk  about  freedom,  is  it 
freedom only when the views and political systems of 
other countries agree with one’s own?  

I  thought  that  true  democracy  and  true  freedom 
embrace  diversity:  diversity  of  opinion,  of  thought,  of 
political  systems.  Indeed,  freedom  also  includes  the 
right  even  to  be  wrong.  My  delegation  has  voted  in 
favour of resolution 66/6 because that is the right thing 
to do. 

talk  about  democracy,  what 
  The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m. 
When  we 
26 

11-56249 
