
A/66/PV.51
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

51st plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 8 November 2011, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 
these 
during 
Member States, in which I emphasized my confidence 
in  the  leadership  of  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Afghanistan,  Ambassador 
Tanin,  in  chairing  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
on Security Council reform. I should also like to affirm 
my  full  support  for  his  endeavours  in  guiding  these 
negotiations.  I  hope  that  Member  States  will  adopt  a 
flexible  and  constructive  approach  during 
the 
forthcoming round of negotiations. 

While  I  have  no  doubt  that  there  continue  to  be 
tangible  differences  between  the  positions  of  different 
parties on various aspects of the issue, I hope that the 
discussions 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  will  lead  to  the  formulation  of  well-
defined  steps  in  the  reform  process,  steps,  we  hope, 
that will attract the broadest possible acceptance on the 
part  of  Member  States,  in  the  manner  defined  in 
decision 62/557.  

I  believe  that  achieving  genuine  progress  in 
reforming  the  Security  Council  will  make  a  positive 
contribution 
the  capacity  and 
effectiveness  of  the  response  of  the  United  Nations  to 
global challenges. In that regard, I have no doubt that 
we  all  agree  on  the  urgent  need  to  bring  the  United 
Nations  closer  to  and  more  conformable  with  the 
realities of the twenty-first century. 

The  general  debate  at  the  sixty-sixth  session 
reflected  world  leaders’  shared  views  on  the  pressing 
need  for  Security  Council  reform  at  the  earliest 
opportunity,  reform  that  will  make  the  Council  more 
efficient, transparent, inclusive and democratic. Here, I 
increasing 
towards 





  The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 


the  changes 
Agenda item 122  
Question of equitable representation on and increase 
in the membership of the Security Council and 
related matters 
The President (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, I 

would  like  to  express  my  great  pleasure  as  we  begin 
our meeting today to consider agenda item 122, on the 
question of equitable representation on and increase in 
the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters. This issue in particular is central to the reform 
process of the United Nations. There is clear consensus 
among the majority of the members of the international 
community  on  the  need  for  the  United  Nations  in 
general, and the Security Council in particular, to adapt 
to 
taking  place 
internationally since 1945. 
Our  meeting  today  is  of  the  utmost  importance, 

because 
the 
resumption  of  discussions  of  this  vital  issue,  which  I 
have  personally  grown  to  appreciate  over  my  more 
than a decade of experience at the United Nations. I am 
well  aware  of  just  how  important  this  issue  is  and 
realize  its  centrality  to  the  wider  question  of  United 
Nations reform.  

At  the  beginning  of  my  presidency,  I  identified 
Security  Council  reform  as  one  of  the  four  pillars  of 
my  programme  of  work  for  the  sixty-sixth  session  of 
the  General  Assembly.  Here  I  would  also  like  to 
mention  my  statement  of  16  September  addressed  to 

the  starting  point  for 
that  have  been 
it  constitutes 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-58384 (E) 
*1158384* 




during 
reached 
agreement  was 
Mr.  Abdelaziz  (Egypt):  I  have  the  pleasure  to 
A/66/PV.51 

should  like  to  make  it  very  clear  that  the  primary 
responsibility for realizing our aspiration to reform the 
Security  Council  lies  with  the  Member  States.  The 
chances  for  our  success  will  be  improved  by  our 
collective will and by putting to good use the points on 
which 
the 
intergovernmental negotiations. 

Finally,  I  sincerely  encourage  the  Assembly  to 
fully engage in the relevant discussions with flexibility 
and  effectiveness.  I  hope  that  our  discussions  today 
will  move  matters  forward  and  make  it  possible  to 
achieve  the  progress  desired  in  a  manner  that  garners 
the  widest  possible  political  support  among  Member 
States. I wish you every success. 

speak today on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  express  the 
Movement’s appreciation to His Excellency Mr. Joseph 
Deiss, President of the General Assembly at the sixty-
fifth session, for his efforts and goodwill in advancing 
the important issue of Security Council reform.  

I  would  also  like,  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement, 
to  commend  you,  President  Nassir 
Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for putting this issue at the top of 
your  priorities  for  the  sixty-sixth  session  of  the 
Assembly,  and  for  expressing  your  commitment  to 
exerting  every  all  efforts  to  reform  the  Security 
Council,  based  on  the  collective  will  of  the  Member 
States.  The  Movement  congratulates  you,  Sir,  for 
reaffirming  confidence  in  His  Excellency Ambassador 
Zahir Tanin,  Permanent  Representative  of Afghanistan 
to the United Nations, and in his continuing to serve as 
Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the 
reform  of  the  Security  Council,  which  will  help  us  to 
achieve  maximum  progress  during  the  sixty-sixth 
session. 

The  Non-Aligned  Movement  attaches  great 
importance  to  achieving  concrete  results  on  Security 
Council reform through intergovernmental negotiations 
and in accordance with decision 62/557 and subsequent 
decisions  63/565,  64/568  and  65/554.  In  that  regard, 
The  Movement’s  position  is  clearly  reaffirmed  in 
section  E  of  the  final  document  (A/65/896,  annex), 
adopted by the sixteenth Ministerial Conference of the 
Non-Aligned  Movement,  held  in  Bali,  Indonesia,  in 
May. 
to 
the 
basis 
be 
continue 
the  historical 

The  Movement  believes  that  the  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  should  be  addressed  in  a  prompt, 
comprehensive, 
transparent  and  balanced  manner, 
without setting artificial deadlines, in order to properly 
reflect  the  needs  and  interests  of  both  developing  and 
developed countries, while at the same time addressing 
all substantive issues relating, inter alia, to the question 
of  membership  and  regional  representation  and  the 
Council’s  agenda,  working  methods  and  decision-
making process, including the veto. 

That  is  why  the  Ministers  of  the  Movement,  at 
their  recent  gathering  in  Bali,  reiterated  that  decision 
62/557  will 
for 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform. They also stressed that the enlargement of the 
Security  Council  and  the  reform  of  its  working 
methods,  as  the  body  primarily  responsible  for  the 
maintenance of international peace and security, should 
lead 
to  a  democratic,  more  representative,  more 
accountable and more effective Council.  
In that context, the Ministers of the Non-Aligned 

Movement  acknowledged 
injustices 
against Africa  with  regard  to  its  representation  in  the 
Security  Council,  and  expressed  support  for  increased 
and enhanced representation of the African continent in 
the reformed Security Council. They also took note of 
the  common  African  position  as  reflected  in  the 
Ezulwini Consensus and the Sirte Declaration. 

Improving  the  working  methods  of  the  Security 
Council is of great importance to the  Movement,  as it 
is  crucial  for 
the  Council. 
Transparency,  openness  and  consistency  are  key 
elements that the Security Council should observe and 
preserve 
its  activities,  approaches  and 
procedures.  The  rules  of  procedure  of  the  Security 
Council,  which  have  remained  provisional  for  more 
than  60  years,  should  be  formalized  in  order  to 
improve its transparency and accountability. Moreover, 
the Movement rejects  any  attempts to use the Council 
to  pursue  national  political  agendas  and  stresses  the 
necessity  of  non-selectivity  and  impartiality  in  its 
work. 

In  that  regard,  there  is  an  urgent  need  for  the 
Security Council to adhere to the powers and functions 
accorded  to  it  by  Member  States  under  the  United 
Nations  Charter.  The  Council  should  therefore  stop 
encroaching  on  the  functions  and  powers  of  the 
General  Assembly  and 
the  Economic  and  Social 
the  effectiveness  of 
in  all 
2 

11-58384 
in 
to 
the 
serious  concern 
targeted  country 
the  competence  of 


Council  by  addressing  issues  that  traditionally  fall 
within 
those  organs.  Close 
cooperation  and  coordination  among  all  principal 
organs  are  highly  indispensable  in  order  to  enable  the 
United  Nations  to  remain  relevant  and  capable  of 
meeting  existing,  new  and  emerging 
threats  and 
challenges. 

The Security Council should also avoid resorting 
to  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter  as  an  umbrella  for 
addressing issues that  do not necessarily pose a threat 
to  international  peace  and  security.  It  should,  rather, 
fully  utilize  the  provisions  of  other  relevant  chapters, 
where  appropriate,  including  Chapters  VI  and  VIII, 
before  invoking  Chapter  VII,  which  should  be  a 
measure of last resort. 
Security  Council-imposed  sanctions  remain  an 

issue  of 
the  Non-Aligned 
Movement.  The  use  of  sanctions  raises  fundamental 
ethical  questions  as  to  whether  suffering  inflicted  on 
vulnerable  groups 
is  a 
legitimate  means  of  exerting  pressure.  In  that  regard, 
the  objectives  of  sanctions  regimes  should  be  clearly 
defined,  and  their  imposition  should  be  for  a  specific 
time  frame  and  should  be  based  on  tenable  legal 
grounds  and  be  lifted  as  soon  as  the  objectives  are 
achieved.  The  conditions  demanded  of  the  State  or 
party on which sanctions are imposed should be clearly 
defined and subject to periodic review. 

the 
dynamic and ongoing process of overall reform of the 
United  Nations,  including  the  reform  of  the  Security 
Council,  in  accordance  with  the  objectives  and  scope 
of  the  review  exercise  set  out  in  the  2005  World 
Summit Outcome (resolution 60/1) and the Millennium 
Declaration  (resolution  55/2).  Such  reform  should  not 
be  considered  an  end 
itself,  and  must  be 
comprehensive,  transparent,  inclusive  and  balanced.  It 
should  be  pursued  in  an  effective  and  accountable 
manner,  fully  respecting  the  political  nature  of  the 
Organization,  as  well  as  its  universal  and  democratic 
character,  consistent  with  the  Charter.  In  that  context, 
any  reform  measures  should  be  decided  by  Member 
States  through  an  intergovernmental  process  and  the 
voice  of  each  and  every  Member  State  must  be  heard 
and respected. 

In my national capacity, I would like to associate 
my  remarks  with  the  statement  to  be  delivered  by  the 
remains  committed 
The  Movement 
to 
in 
A/66/PV.51
is 
to 
its 
the 
that 
Egypt 
preserve 
rationale 
reiterates 
agreed  upon 
that  must  be 
Permanent Representative of Sierra Leone on behalf of 
the African Group and to add the following elements. 

long-standing  position 
towards  achieving  tangible  progress  and  reaching 
concrete  results  in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
on  Security  Council  reform  on  the  basis  of  consensus 
decision 62/557. Paragraph (d) of that decision clearly 
stipulates 
intergovernmental  negotiations 
should  be  based  on  proposals  submitted  by  Member 
States.  The 
the 
intergovernmental  nature  of  the  process  and  avoid 
jeopardizing  the  neutrality  and  impartiality  of  the 
President of the General Assembly and the Chair of the 
intergovernmental negotiations. 

The  five  key  issues  of  our  intergovernmental 
negotiations are clearly defined in paragraph (e) (ii) of 
decision  62/557.  They  should  remain  inextricably 
linked  and  constitute  an  integral  and  inseparable 
package 
together. 
Accordingly,  any  proposed  outcome  of  the  review 
exercise  should  include  all  five  negotiable  issues  and 
should  garner  the  widest  possible  political  acceptance 
by Member States. 

Our  efforts  should  be  directed  at  reaching  an 
agreement  that  would  have  an  effect  on  the  power 
structure  of  the  Security  Council  and  allow  equitable 
representation  of  all  regions.  Selectivity  in  dealing 
with  the  five  key  issues  or  attempts  to  classify  them 
into  points  of  convergence  and  divergence  will  only 
divide  Member  States  and  jeopardize  the  progress 
achieved so far. 

Egypt, along with the African Group, continues to 
call for agreement first on the principles and criteria of 
the  negotiations  regarding  the  five  key  issues  before 
embarking on any drafting exercise involving merging 
language  or  streamlining  positions  in  the  compilation 
text, or even discussing any proposed draft resolutions. 

In full observance of the Ezulwini Consensus and 
the  Sirte  Declaration,  limiting  the  expansion  of  the 
Security  Council  only  to  the  non-permanent  category 
or  to  the  enlargement  of  the  permanent  category 
without veto rights is not an option for Africa, as both 
options  will  neither  change  the  power  structure  of  the 
Council  nor  correct  the  historical  injustice  to  the 
African continent. 

Accordingly,  Egypt  believes  that  one  way  to 
advance  negotiations  on  the  veto  rights  of  new  and 
11-58384 

3 

to 
law, 
improve 
the  Security  Council’s 
international  humanitarian 
A/66/PV.51 

current  permanent  members  alike  would  be 
the 
consideration of restricting the scope of application of 
the  veto  rights  accorded  to  both  current  and  new 
permanent  members  to  exclude  cases  of  genocide, 
ethnic  cleansing,  crimes  against  humanity,  grave 
violations  of 
the 
cessation  of  hostilities  between  belligerent  parties  and 
the election of the Secretary-General. 

Regional  representation  is  also  closely  linked  to 
the  size  of  the  enlarged  Security  Council.  Therefore, 
when  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  states  that  Africa  is 
demanding, inter alia, no less than two permanent seats 
with all prerogatives and privileges, including the right 
of  veto,  that  should  be  read  in  the  sense  that  Africa 
might  demand  more  permanent  seats  if  other  regions, 
smaller in size and number, are to get more seats than 
justified  by  their  ratio  of  representation  among  the 
wider  membership.  Despite  the  continued  efforts  and 
attempts  within 
Informal 
and  Other 
Working  Group  on  Documentation 
Procedural  Questions 
the  Council’s 
working  methods,  none  of  those  efforts  has  met  the 
aspirations of the larger majority of Member States, as 
the views of the General Assembly have not been taken 
into consideration in that exercise. 

Enhanced  representation  of  developing  countries 
and small States in the Security Council remains one of 
the fundamental pillars of the reform process since the 
adoption  of  resolution  48/26.  Egypt  stresses 
the 
necessity of taking duly into account the position of the 
members  of  the  League  of  Arab  States  demanding  a 
permanent  seat  for  the  Arab  Group  in  any  future 
expansion in the category of permanent membership of 
the  Council. That  position  was  reaffirmed  in  the  Sirte 
Declaration adopted by the Arab Summit in its ordinary 
session of 28 March 2010. We also stress the necessity 
of taking into account the position of the Organization 
of  Islamic  Cooperation,  which  demands  adequate 
representation  of  the  Muslim  Ummah  in  any  category 
of membership in the expanded Council. 
Mr. Wolfe (Jamaica): I have the honour to speak 

on behalf of the group of countries that sponsored draft 
resolution A/61/L.69/Rev.1. The L.69  group is a diverse 
group  of  40  countries  from Africa,  Latin America  and 
the Caribbean, Asia and the Pacific that are united by a 
common  cause,  namely, 
lasting  and 
comprehensive reform of the Security Council. 
to  achieve 
is 
in 
the 
the 
the 
and 
achieve 
a  more 
representation 
firmly  convinced 
The  L.69  group 

that 
expansion  in  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
categories  of  membership  of  the  Security  Council  is 
needed  in  order  to  better  reflect  contemporary  world 
realities 
accountable, 
representative and transparent Security Council. Those 
are the principles that we feel should be at the heart of 
Security  Council  reform.  And  we  are  convinced  that 
the overwhelming majority of United Nations Member 
States think along similar lines. 

The  L.69  position  is  well  known.  But  let  me 
recap  briefly  that  the  L.69  group  calls  for  expanding 
the  Security  Council  from  the  present  15  to  around 
25 or  26  members,  with 
inclusion  of  new 
permanent  and  non-permanent  members  as  per  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  The  new  permanent 
members  would  include  countries  from  Africa,  Asia, 
and  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean.  The  new 
non-permanent  members  would  be  from  Asia,  East 
Europe,  the  Group  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean 
States and from Africa, taking into account the need to 
ensure 
from  developing  countries, 
including  small  island  developing  States,  wherein 
participation  shall be  based on the  concept of  rotating 
seats. There must also be improvement in the working 
methods of the Council and in the relationship between 
the Security Council and the General Assembly. 
Let  me  take  this  opportunity  to  applaud  your 

commitment,  Mr.  President,  to  this  important  agenda 
item, which was evident in your opening address to the 
General  Assembly  on  13  September.  You  also  acted 
fast  in  reappointing  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  as  the 
Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations. That  was 
a  wise  decision  and  the  L.69  group  applauds  you  for 
that. 

The  L.69  group  will  continue  to  work  actively 
and  constructively  with  Ambassador  Tanin.  We  were 
instrumental 
intergovernmental 
negotiations. We remain engaged in those negotiations 
on  the  understanding  that  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations, 
the  General 
Assembly  and 
relevant  General  Assembly 
resolutions  require  support  from  a  two-thirds  majority 
of the United Nations membership for any decision in 
that  regard.  We  appeal  to Ambassador  Tanin,  through 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  to  convene  a 
meeting on the intergovernmental negotiations as soon 
as possible. 
the  rules  of  procedure  of 
starting 
4 

11-58384 
text, 
throwing 
the  negotiations 



Let  me  say  a  few  words  on  the  L.69  group’s 
assessment  of  the  state  of  play.  Member  States  have 
been  engaged  in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations 
since  2009,  including  text-based  negotiations,  which 
began in mid-2010. Substantial progress has been made 
and a third revision of the negotiation text was issued 
in  the  beginning  of  the  year. At  the  first  exchange  of 
the seventh round of intergovernmental negotiations on 
2 March, it readily became evident that we were once 
again  at  an  impasse.  A  small  group  of  delegations 
expressed  their  opposition  to  the  third  revision  of  the 
negotiation 
into 
suspense mode. 

To break the existing deadlock, a broad coalition 
of  Member  States  undertook  an  initiative  aimed  at 
taking  the  process  forward.  The  initiative  took  as  its 
starting  point  the  assessment  made  by  Ambassador 
Tanin  in  September  2009  that  the  reform  model 
seeking  an  expansion  in  both  categories  “commanded 
the most support from the delegations taking the floor.” 
Further,  the  initiative  was  completely  in  accordance 
with  the  parameters  laid  down  in  General  Assembly 
decision 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations,  and  other  relevant 
resolutions. 

to 
Member States based on the proposition that the reform 
of  the  Security  Council  should  include  expansion  in 
both  of 
and 
non-permanent  categories  as  well  as  improvement  on 
its  working  methods.  The  results  of  the  outreach 
indicated  that  the  proposition  enjoys  broad  support 
from  delegations  across  various  regions.  To  date,  an 
overwhelming  majority  of  delegations  have  signalled 
their support for the proposition, including 80 that have 
done so in writing. 

The L.69 group believes that such strong support 
for  the  initiative  should  be  the  basis  for  further 
discussions in the intergovernmental negotiations. 
Mr. Touray (Sierra Leone): Permit me, on behalf 

of  the African  Group  of  States,  to  thank  you,  Sir,  for 
convening  this  debate  on  agenda  item  122,  “Question 
of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in  the 
membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters”.  Let  me  at  the  outset  express  thanks  and 
appreciation 
that  have 
responded  to  the  call  of  the  facilitator  and  sent  in 
documents  outlining  their  respective  initiatives  on 
initiative  consisted  of  reaching  out 
the  Charter-provided  permanent 
to 
those  Member  States 
established 
62/557, 
which 
The 
11-58384 

A/66/PV.51
in 
Security  Council  reform,  the  results  of  which  have 
been circulated to the entire membership. We share the 
Facilitator’s  belief  that  such  documents  would  help 
inform  the  process  as  it  moves  forward  and  their 
circulation  helps  to  maintain  an  open,  transparent, 
inclusive and comprehensive process. 

The facilitator has made his usual commitment to 
the  process  and  circulated  the  documents  he  received 
under  cover  of  his  letter  of  9  September.  We  are 
gratified  by  and  take  comfort  in  the  declaration  of 
support  for  the  African  cause  that  was  unequivocally 
and  forcefully  documented 
the  outcome  and 
principles  that  emerged  from  the  ministerial-level 
conference on global governance and Security Council 
reform held in Rome on 16 May this year, which was 
attended by 123 delegations, including the President of 
the General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session. 

The outcome and principles were contained in the 
facilitator’s  bundle.  They  expressed  the  common  will 
that emerged at the meeting to correct, first of all, the 
injustice done to the continent, which is the subject of 
70  per  cent  of  the  Council’s  decisions  but  is,  at  the 
same time, underrepresented in it. 

As we continue to hold consultations and remain 
open  to  further  exchanges  with  all  interested  groups 
and Member States that have proposed or are likely to 
propose initiatives on Security Council reform, we urge 
the  facilitator,  in  keeping  with  the  principle  that  the 
reform  process  is  membership-driven  and  requires  the 
broad  support  of  the  general  membership,  to  translate 
and  implement  that  common  will  of  nearly  two-thirds 
of  the  membership  into  action.  That  can  be  done  by 
factoring  the  special  needs  of  Africa  into  the  reform 
process as a special case in the facilitator’s programme 
of work during this session, in order to ensure that due 
regard  is  given  to  the  voice  of  such  a  substantial 
majority of Member States. 

We underscore our firm commitment to that very 
important  issue  and  look  forward  to  much  progress 
during  this  session.  Indeed,  all  Member  States  have 
recognized the need to reform the Security Council to 
make  it  more  representative,  more  democratic  and 
more legitimate. Therefore, all of us must seek to agree 
on  a  realistic  reform  that  takes  into  account  the  core 
values  of  the  United  Nations,  namely,  inclusiveness, 
democracy, accountability and transparency.  
After  nearly  two  decades  of  debate,  we  seem  to 

be  gradually  approaching  a  point  where  the  United 
5 
A/66/PV.51 

Nations  will  lose  its  credibility,  if  we  fail  to  generate 
the  necessary  political  will  to  make  progress  on  this 
very  crucial  issue.  In  that  regard,  we  urge  Member 
States  to  be  flexible  in  their  quest  for  a  more  secure 
world and a more representative and democratic global 
governance system. 

Allow me at this juncture to refresh our memories 
of  the  call  made  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ernest  Bai 
Koroma, Chair of the African Union Committee of Ten 
Heads  of  State  and  Government  on  the  Reform  of  the 
United  Nations  Security  Council  and  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Sierra  Leone,  in  his  statement  during  the 
general debate, on 23 September, in which he said: 

“There  is  an  increasing  need  for  the  Security 
Council  to  be  more  representative,  inclusive  and 
democratic, as well as  for  an improvement in its 
working  methods  and  its  relations  with  the 
General Assembly. The status quo is increasingly 
unacceptable  and  has  the  potential  to  undermine 
the legitimacy, effectiveness and efficiency of the 
Council’s work in maintaining international peace 
and  security.  It  is  therefore  imperative  that  we 
reaffirm  our  commitment  to  the  standards  and 
principles  of 
this  noble  Organization  by 
generating  the  political  will  for  a  reformed 
Security  Council  that  would  pave  the  way  for 
correcting  the  historical  injustice  done  to Africa, 
through  the  allocation  during  this  session  of  two 
permanent  seats  and  five  non-permanent  seats  to 
Africa,  in  accordance  with  the  United  Nations 
Charter.” (A/66/PV.20, p. 3)

It  is  clear  from  President  Koroma’s  address  as 
Chair  of  the  African  Union  Committee  that  ours  is  a 
continental  aspiration  with  which  we  believe  all 
Member  States  and  other  stakeholders  are  now  very 
familiar.  In  that  sense  and  in  the African  context,  we 
recognize the importance of paying due regard to, and 
strengthening the profile of, the regional dimension in 
a reformed Security Council. 

and 
circumstances  clearly  dictate  the  common  sense  and 
fairness of Africa’s full and effective representation in 
all  decision-making  bodies  of  the  United  Nations,  in 
particular  the  Security  Council.  We  reaffirm  that,  in 
accordance with the common African position set forth 
in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration, 
Africa’s full representation in Security Council means, 
first, no less than two permanent seats together with all 
geopolitical 
realities 
The 
present 

the  prerogatives 
and  privileges  of  permanent 
membership,  including  the  right  of  veto  as  long  as  it 
continues  to  exist;  and  secondly,  five  non-permanent 
seats, with the African Union being entrusted with the 
responsibility  of  selecting  Africa’s  representatives  in 
the Security Council. It is our collective responsibility 
to correct the present imbalance in the composition of 
the  Council,  so  as  to  give  it  greater  legitimacy  as  an 
organ that is primarily responsible for the maintenance 
of international peace and security. 

We  note  that  the  task  of  the  facilitator  is  not  an 
easy  one.  The  facilitator  faces  an  array  of  initiatives 
and positions of interest groups and Member States on 
how  to  move  forward  and/or  how  to  turn  the  third 
revision  of  the  negotiating  text  into  an  acceptable 
working document, and must also respect the common 
will  of  a  substantial  majority  of  Member  States  to 
correct,  first  of  all,  the  injustice  done  to  the  African 
continent. However, we pledge to continue to engage in 
the  process  as  usual,  in  good  faith  and  with  mutual 
trust, in order to achieve a  reform that will garner the 
widest  possible  political  acceptance  of  the  entire 
membership within the shortest possible time. 

In  conclusion,  we  hope  that  this  session  will  set 
the  tone  for  a  more  frank  and  lively  debate  in  the 
intergovernmental negotiations, in which there will be 
more flexibility, compromise and decisiveness. We also 
hope that it will generate the political will necessary to 
bring about a speedy reform of the Security Council in 
accordance  with  the  vision  of  our  leaders  at  the  2005 
World Summit. 

Mr.  Goddard  (Barbados):  I  have  the  honour  to 
speak  on  behalf  of  the  14  States  members  of  the 
Caribbean Community (CARICOM) that are Members 
of  the  United  Nations:  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  the 
Bahamas,  Barbados,  Belize,  Dominica,  Grenada, 
Guyana,  Haiti,  Jamaica,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  Saint 
Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  Suriname, 
and Trinidad and Tobago. 
At  the  outset,  CARICOM  wishes  to  align  itself 

with 
the  Permanent 
Representative of the Arab Republic of Egypt on behalf 
of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and  by  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Jamaica  on  behalf  of  the  group  of 
sponsors of draft resolution A/61/L.69/Rev.1. 

We also wish to place on record our appreciation 
to  you,  Mr.  President,  for  your  continued  attention  to 
this matter, which is of high priority to a great number 
statements  made  by 
the 
6 

11-58384 
ideally 
have 
the 
it 
Secondly, 
continued 
should  give 
join  previous  speakers 
In  CARICOM’s  view,  a 
intergovernmental  negotiations  and  we 


of  Member  States,  including  those  of  CARICOM. We 
in  commending  His 
also 
Excellency  Ambassador  Tanin, 
the  Permanent 
Representative of Afghanistan, on his role as Chair of 
the 
look 
forward  to  further  progress  in  the  negotiations  during 
the current session. 
reformed  Security 

Council  would 
following 
characteristics. First, it should provide for the equitable 
representation  of  developing  countries  in  terms  of 
numbers. 

and 
heightened  priority  to  accommodating  and  responding 
to  any  complaint  made  by  developing  countries  with 
regard to threats to their security. 

Thirdly,  a  reformed  Security  Council  should 
command, to a greater and broader degree, the respect 
necessary  to  be  able  to  discharge  its  mandate  for  the 
maintenance of international peace and security. 

Fourthly, it should be guided by working methods 
that are demonstrably flexible and transparent. Member 
States should have the right to participate in matters of 
which the Security Council is seized that have direct or 
indirect  bearing  on  them.  States  wishing  to  express 
solidarity should also be allowed to participate. 

Fifthly  and  finally,  a  reformed  Security  Council 
should  be  more  responsive  and  accountable  to  the 
entire membership, on whose behalf it acts. 
After  almost  two  decades  of  discussions  on  the 

subject of Security Council reform, it is understandable 
that there is growing impatience for action, a desire for 
change that refuses to be denied. We in CARICOM are 
strongly of the view that the Council must be reformed. 
We  share  the  impatience.  As  small  vulnerable  States 
and  strong  proponents  of  multilateralism  and  the 
principle  of  the  equality  of  States,  we  have  reiterated 
time  and  time  again  our  principled  position  on  this 
issue,  a  position  endorsed  by  our  Heads  of  State  and 
Government and one which I now reaffirm. 
First,  CARICOM  supports  the  expansion  of  the 

the  permanent  and 
Security  Council 
non-permanent  categories.  We  are  of  the  view  that 
expansion  should  take  particular  account  of  those 
regions  that  are  currently  underrepresented  or  not 
represented  at  all,  namely  Africa,  Asia,  and  Latin 
America and the Caribbean. 
in  both 
A/66/PV.51
the 
in 
in 
to  make 
resumption  of 
the  Council  more 
improvement 
including 

Secondly, we believe that  special provision must 
be made for small island developing States to serve on 
the Council in the non-permanent category. Thirdly, we 
support  the  increase  in  the  membership  of  a  reformed 
Council from 15 to around the mid-twenties. Fourthly, 
the 
we  support  comprehensive 
Council’s  working  methods, 
its 
relationship with the General Assembly. 

Fifthly,  we  support  abolition  of  the  veto,  an 
anachronism  that  has  no  place  in  a  United  Nations  of 
the twenty-first century. In our view, it undermines our 
efforts 
transparent, 
accountable  and  legitimate.  As  long  as  the  veto  is 
retained, however, we believe it should be extended to 
all new permanent members of the Council. 

In  spite  of  CARICOM’s  impatience  for  change, 
we believe in due process. CARICOM looks forward to 
the  early 
intergovernmental 
negotiations on Security Council reform and assures its 
Chair  of  our  full  cooperation  in  carrying  this  process 
forward.  CARICOM  firmly  rejects  any  notions  of 
partial, interim or intermediate approaches to Security 
Council  reform,  which  fail  to  address  the  compelling 
need  for  comprehensive  Council  reform  and  ignore 
contemporary  global  realities.  In  this  as  in  all  United 
Nations matters, we continue to be guided by our deep 
respect for the principles and the spirit of the Charter. 
As  an  Organization  comprising  sovereign  Member 
States,  we  must  practice  the  democracy  and  the 
transparency that we preach. 

In  closing,  I  reiterate  CARICOM’s  full  support 
for  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security 
Council  reform  and  our  commitment  to  work  with  all 
Member  States  to  bring  about  meaningful,  democratic 
reform of the Security Council. CARICOM pledges to 
continue to be actively engaged in this process. 
Mr.  Chua  (Singapore):  I  have  the  honour  to 

deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the  group  of  five 
small  nations  (S-5),  comprising  Costa  Rica,  Jordan, 
Liechtenstein, Singapore and Switzerland. 

It has been more than two decades since the end 
of  the  Cold  War,  when  talk  of  reforming  the  Security 
Council gathered pace. Since then, the United Nations 
membership  has  increased  by  nearly  20  per  cent,  and 
the complexities of maintaining international peace and 
security  have  multiplied.  The  need  for  a  more 
representative and effective Council continues to grow. 
We all risk irrelevance if the Council, a leading organ 
11-58384 

7 
attest 
to 
It 
is  difficult 
inclusive, 
this.  Seven 
the  Council  more 
A/66/PV.51 

of  the  United  Nations,  does  not  evolve  to  reflect  the 
realities of the twenty-first century. 

to  strike  a  balance  between 
representation  and  efficacy.  The  protracted  reform 
negotiations 
rounds  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  have  come  and  gone 
without  any  progress.  Other  initiatives,  such  as  the 
informal  Group  of  Friends  convened  by  the  former 
President  of  the  General  Assembly,  have  not  made 
headway  due  to  the  lack  of  political  will  for  reform. 
We urge Ambassador Tanin to persevere. We also urge 
the  relevant  parties  to  break  the  deadlock  over  other 
issues. 

We  must  remain  steadfast  in  our  efforts  to  agree 
on a comprehensive reform of the Council, covering all 
five  aspects  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  It 
will  take  considerable  time  to  bridge  the  fundamental 
divergences of opinion on the five areas of reform, but 
that  does  not  mean  that  nothing  can  be  done  now  to 
make 
transparent, 
accountable  and  effective.  Basic  changes 
the 
Council’s  working  methods  would  make  a  practical 
difference and would substantially benefit all Member 
States.  They  would  make  the  Council  more  nimble  in 
the face of new and evolving realities. 
That  is  why  the  S-5  has  consistently  advocated 

improvement 
the  Council’s  working  methods, 
independently  of  and  without  prejudice  to  the  other 
aspects of Council reform. In the absence of agreement 
on  comprehensive  Council  reform,  we  should  not  shy 
away  from  picking  the  low-hanging  fruit.  We  should 
not let the perfect be the enemy of the good. 

The Council has taken some steps to improve its 
working methods, which the S-5 welcomes and further 
encourages.  The  revised  presidential  note  507  issued 
by  the  Council  last  year  (S/2010/507)  indicates  its 
continued  willingness  to  make  serious  progress  on 
working methods. But these steps are not enough. The 
current  implementation  of  the  measures  contained  in 
both the original (S/2006/507) and the revised note 507 
remains inconsistent and unsatisfactory. 
In  this  regard,  the  S-5  has  circulated  a  text 

the 
entitled  “Improving 
Security Council” as a follow-up to the draft resolution 
that  we  had  issued  in  2006.  Our  text  sets  out  specific 
measures  for  the  improvement  of  working  methods, 
which the Council either should continue to implement 
on a regular basis or could consider adopting.  
the  working  methods  of 
in 

in 
and 
providing 
Secretary-General; 

We  have  held  open  consultations  about  the  text 
and have taken on board many good suggestions from 
Member  States.  Our  text  puts  forward  suggestions  on 
enhancing the relationship between the Council and the 
General  Assembly;  evaluating  outcomes  of  past 
decisions  and  improving  the  drafting  of  mandates  for 
operations  to  increase  the  Council’s  effectiveness; 
increasing  the  transparency  of  the  work  of  subsidiary 
bodies  and  Member  States’  involvement  in  those 
bodies;  augmenting  the  Council’s  governance  and 
accountability;  consulting  more  widely  in  appointing 
the 
greater 
transparency  when  the  veto  is  exercised.  We  believe 
that  these  proposals  command  the  support  of  many 
Member States. 
The  S-5  believes  that  the  Security  Council,  as 

master of its own procedures, can take decisive steps to 
continue improving its working methods. We hope that 
the members of the Council will seriously consider the 
suggestions  we  have  put  forward  in  our  text,  and  we 
stand  ready  to  engage  with  them.  The  S-5  also  looks 
forward  to  continuing  engagement  with  the  wider 
United Nations membership, not just on the text, but on 
the improvement of the Council’s working methods in 
general. 
Mr.  Schaper  (Netherlands):  I  have  the  pleasure 

to  speak  on  behalf  of  Belgium  and  the  Netherlands. 
Our  subject  today  is  Security  Council  reform  —  an 
important issue for sure, but at the same time one that 
has been on the agenda of the General Assembly for a 
very long time. 

Nearly 20 years ago, in a previous posting here in 
New York in the mid-1990s, I represented my country 
in  the  ongoing  discussion  on  Security  Council  reform 
that  was  already  taking  place  at  that  time.  As  is  the 
case at this moment, the issue that was discussed most 
of  the  time  was  the  Council’s  enlargement.  The 
different  options  for  such  an  enlargement  remain  the 
same. The ones that we  discuss today  are the same  as 
we  discussed  then:  enlargement  in  both  categories  of 
Council membership, enlargement only in the category 
of  non-permanent  members,  and  some  sort  of 
intermediary solution. All those ideas were already on 
the table nearly twenty years ago and all the arguments 
and  considerations  that  were  used  then  are  still  used 
today. 

But while most of the membership seems to agree 
on the objective of a Security Council that reflects not 
8 

11-58384 


the world of 1945 but the world of today, there is little 
agreement  on  the  road  to  take  to  reach  that  goal. The 
net result is that hardly any progress has been made in 
the many, many years during which we have discussed 
the question. 

Mr.  Khazaee  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran),  Vice-
President, took the Chair. 

In the view of Belgium and the Netherlands, this 
cannot go on. Here we have an issue on which the great 
majority of the Member States declares time and again 
that a solution needs to be found, but the same Member 
States  have  been  unable  to  come  to  an  agreement  for 
twenty  years  now.  That  not  only  undermines  the 
legitimacy of the Security Council, it also undermines 
the  credibility  of  the  United  Nations  as  an  institution 
capable of solving problems and of acting efficiently. 

I was a bit surprised, I must say, when I heard in 
an earlier statement this afternoon a warning note that 
said, “no artificial deadlines”. I wonder whether that is 
really  one  of  the  first  concerns  that  should  come  to 
mind when one speaks about a process that has lasted 
nearly  20  years.  The  real  issue  is  not  the  danger  of 
artificial  deadlines,  but  whether  Member  States  have 
sufficient  political  will  to  start  a  process  of  real 
negotiations.  Over  the  past  couple  of  years,  Belgium 
and  the  Netherlands  have  tried  to  stimulate  a  full 
discussion  among  Member  States  about  this  issue, 
among  other  things,  by  making  concrete  suggestions 
for  a  shorter  and  more  focused  text  that  could  be  the 
subject  of  negotiations.  I  am  sorry  to  say  that  those 
efforts  have  not  yet  led  to  the  desired  result,  despite 
our  efforts  to  illustrate  that  technical  progress  could 
indeed be made. 

Belgium and the Netherlands share the goal of the 
vast majority of the membership of the United Nations, 
namely,  to  reform  the  Security  Council  in  such  a  way 
that it better reflects today’s geopolitical realities. That 
is  a  very  legitimate  request,  if  only  because  it  has  a 
direct connection to the legitimacy of the Council. This 
is a time when we see emerging economies in different 
parts of the world that are ready to step up to the stage 
with global ambitions and that are preparing to take on 
future  global  responsibilities.  That  has  to  be  reflected 
in the composition of the world’s most important body 
in  the  field  of  peace  and  security  —  the  Security 
Council. 
In the view of our two countries, the way forward 

on this issue is first of all to agree that now is the time 
A/66/PV.51
to 
this 
increasingly 
to start a serious process of negotiations on this issue. 
If  we  cannot  agree  on  this,  then  we  can  better  spend 
our  precious  time  on  other  pressing  issues  and  put  an 
end 
irrelevant  process  of 
continuously  repeating  well-known  positions  without 
coming to grips with the real issues, the central issues.  

Apart  from  that,  we  cannot  expect  the  P-5 
members  of  the  Security  Council  to  take  this  issue 
seriously  as  long  as  the  membership  does  not  start  a 
process of real negotiations. In that sense, we have not 
so  far  given  all  five  permanent  members  an  incentive 
to  play  an  active  role,  although  some  have  been 
showing a genuine interest in the issue. What we need 
now  is  a  concrete  proposal,  or  even  a  couple  of 
concrete proposals, on the basis of which we can start 
our negotiations. 

At this moment, there is a very short proposal of 
the  Group  of  Four,  kind  of  floating  around  in  the 
corridors  of  the  General Assembly.  That  proposal  has 
the support of more than eighty Member States. So let 
us  put  it  on  the  agenda  and  let  us  start  a  serious 
discussion  about  its  contents  and  implications,  in 
particular about a moderate — at least, in the view of 
our countries it should be moderate — expansion of the 
Security  Council  in  both  categories  of  membership, 
permanent  and  non-permanent,  an  expansion 
that 
respects  the  provisions  necessary  for  an  efficient  and 
effective  Security  Council.  Let  us  discuss  for  the  first 
time in depth the various aspects of that proposal, and 
see  whether  the  necessary  support  is  really  there.  If 
that  does  not  work,  let  us  see  if  there  are  any  other 
proposals that we can discuss.  

At  this  moment  there  are  various  groups  with  a 
stake in the discussion. We have the Group of Four, the 
Uniting  for  Consensus  group,  the  sponsors  of  draft 
resolution  A/61/L.69/Rev.1,  the  African  States  and  so 
on. As  we  can  read  in  the  statement  of  the  Group  of 
Four  ministers,  they  are  prepared  to  take  a  flexible 
approach to this matter. I appeal to the representatives 
of other groups to do the same and also to show some 
flexibility. 

the 
Like 
Netherlands  do  not  formally  belong  to  one  of  the 
groups  I  just  mentioned,  but  we  are  very  much 
committed  to  finding  a  solution  for  the  issue  and  we 
are  willing  to  contribute  constructively.  Also  in  this 
regard, we are looking forward to hearing Ambassador 
countries,  Belgium 
other 
and 
11-58384 

9 

it  one  of 
A/66/PV.51 

Tanin’s  ideas  and  initiatives  on  how  to  move  the 
process forward during this session of the Assembly. 

Finally, I want to thank Ambassador Tanin for his 
tireless  efforts  so  far  and  his  willingness  to  continue 
his  good  work  on  this  issue.  I  also  want  to  thank  the 
President of the General Assembly for his commitment 
to  this  issue  and  for  the  points  he  made  earlier  in  his 
introductory  remarks,  calling 
the  four 
important priorities of his presidency. I sincerely hope 
that  with  sufficient  political  will,  combined  with  a 
minimum  of  flexibility  among  the  membership  and 
with  the  leadership  of  Ambassador  Tanin  and  the 
Assembly  President,  we  can  make  the  necessary 
progress  on  this  issue  in  the  Assembly’s  sixty-sixth 
session. 
Mr.  Dua  (India):  I  am  honoured  to  address  the 

General  Assembly  on  behalf  of  my  country  on  the 
question of equitable representation on and increase in 
the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters. 

Let  me  place  on  record  the  Indian  delegation’s 
appreciation  for  the  commitment  the  President  has 
shown  towards  this  important  issue.  He  explicitly 
referred to it as one of the main priorities of his term. 
He  also  moved  swiftly 
the  highly 
experienced  and  wise  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  of 
Afghanistan  as  chair  of 
intergovernmental 
negotiations. We call upon Ambassador Tanin, through 
the  President, 
the 
to  convene  a  meeting  of 
intergovernmental negotiations as soon as possible. 
We  would  also  like  to  associate  ourselves  with 

the 
statement  delivered  earlier  by  Ambassador 
Raymond Wolfe  of  Jamaica  on  behalf  of  the  group  of 
sponsors of draft resolution A/61/L.69/Rev.1. 
India  played  an  important  role  in  ensuring  that 

the  process  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security  Council  reform  was  initiated  and  has  have 
played  an  active  role  in  the  deliberations  ever  since 
their commencement in 2009. We supported the start of 
text-based negotiations in 2010 and have already stated 
our  clear  support  for 
the 
negotiation text.  
We feel that the logical next step 
is to narrow down the options in the third revision and 
make it a two- to three-page document. 

India  was  among  the  originators  of  the  initiative 
on  a  short  resolution  launched  earlier  this  year  that 
called  for  reform  that  includes  expansion  in  both  the 
third  revision  of 
to  reappoint 
the 
the 
including 
initiative, 
the  more 
permanent  and  non-permanent  categories  of  Security 
Council  membership  as  well  as  improvement  of  its 
working methods. The success of the ongoing initiative 
is clear from the fact that an overwhelming majority of 
Member  States  have  expressed  their  firm  support  for 
the 
than  eighty 
delegations  that  have  done  so  in  writing.  I  would  like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  delegations  for  their 
support. We  believe  that  the  strong  support  shown  for 
an  expansion  of  the  Security  Council  in  both  the 
permanent  and  non-permanent  membership  categories 
and for an improvement of its working methods should 
be considered as the basis for further discussion in the 
ongoing intergovernmental negotiations. 

India  is  a  member  of  the  two  groupings  devoted 
to  early  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  namely,  the 
Group  of  Four  and  the  L.69  group.  The  positions  of 
those  two  groups  have  a  number  of  elements  in 
common  with  other  groups  and  Member  States  that 
have  made  proposals  on  the  subject.  During  this 
Assembly  session,  we  are  keen 
to  enhance  our 
convergences  with  other  such  like-minded  groups, 
particular  the  African  Group,  whose  aspirations  we 
support. 

In conclusion, let me reiterate that India is of the 
view that reform and expansion of the Security Council 
are  essential  if  it  is  to  reflect  contemporary  reality. 
Such an outcome will enhance the Council’s credibility 
and  effectiveness  in  dealing  with  global  issues.  Early 
reform  of  the  Council  must  be  pursued  with  renewed 
vigour  and  urgently  enacted.  Let  me  assure  the 
President  and 
the  United  Nations 
membership  of  our  willingness  to  remain  constructive 
on  all  issues  on  the  table  in  the  months  to  come.  We 
urge other delegations to do likewise. 
Ms.  Gankhuurai  (Mongolia):  As  a  member  of 

the 
resolution 
group 
A/61/L.69/Rev.1,  my  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the 
statement  made  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Jamaica on behalf of that group. 

At  a  time  of  global  uncertainty,  the  urgency  of 
Security Council reform remains as compelling as ever. 
The Council must reflect present-day political realities 
and  become  more  broadly  representative  if  it  is  to  be 
viable and effective. 

Since 2009 Member States have been engaged in 
the  intergovernmental  negotiations  established  by  the 
historic  General Assembly  decision  62/557.  However, 
sponsors 
rest  of 
the 
of 
of 
draft 
10 

11-58384 
realities 
and 
it  aims 
to  move 
the  negotiation 
text  and 


genuine  negotiations  are  yet  to  start.  While  the  third 
revision  of 
the  shorter 
document  prepared  by Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  could 
be  further  improved,  they  provide  a  good  basis  for 
genuine negotiations. We call for convening a meeting 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security 
Council reform as soon as possible. 

Mongolia’s  stance  on  Security  Council  reform  is 
well  known.  Our  position  has  been  echoed  in  the 
initiative  on  the  draft  resolution  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  cut  a  decision  on  the  categories  of 
Council enlargement. Mongolia supports that initiative, 
as 
the  process  forward.  The 
overwhelming  support  for  the  initiative  makes  it 
compelling to use it as the basis for further discussion 
in the ongoing intergovernmental negotiations. 

It is imperative that enlargement in the permanent 
category  of  the  Security  Council  membership  derive 
from  the  principles  of  justice  and  equality,  reflect 
contemporary  world 
ensure  due 
representation  of  developing  and  developed  countries. 
Equitable  geographical  distribution  is  also  essential, 
with  emphasis  on  the  non-  and  underrepresented 
groups,  particularly  Africa,  Asia  and 
the  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  Group.  It  is  also  critical  to 
ensure representation of small States in the Council. 

My delegation shares the view of the majority of 
Member States that the veto right needs to be abolished 
eventually.  In 
its  use  should  be 
restricted,  in  particular  by  stipulating  that  the  veto 
should  not  be  used  under  certain  circumstances,  such 
as  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity, 
serious 
violations  of 
law,  war 
crimes,  ethnic  cleansing  and  terrorism. As  long  as  the 
veto right exists, it must be extended to new permanent 
members 
third  category  of 
members,  which 
entail  overruling 
Article 23  of  the  Charter.  It  is  imperative  that  new 
permanent  members  have 
rights  and 
obligations as the current ones. 

the  Security 
Council has continued to improve its working methods 
since  its  last  report  (A/65/2).  However,  there  is  a 
critical  need  for  further  improvement  and  the  full 
implementation  of  the  note  by  the  President  of  the 
Council in S/2010/507 in order to ensure transparency, 
a  high  degree  of  accountability  and  enhanced 
participation of and access for non-Council members. 
to  avoid  creating  a 
could/would 
My  delegation  has  noted 
international  humanitarian 
the  meantime, 
the  same 
that 
A/66/PV.51

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  commend  the 
President  for  identifying  United  Nations  reform  and 
revitalization,  including  Security  Council  reform,  as 
one of the four priority areas during the current session 
of  the  General  Assembly.  My  delegation  sincerely 
hopes that under his strong leadership, this session will 
achieve  concrete  progress  on  early  reform  of  the 
Security Council. 
Mr.  Ragaglini  (Italy):  I  thank  the  President  for 

convening 
this  meeting  and  for  his  well-known 
commitment to advancing the Security Council reform 
process. In reappointing Ambassador Tanin as chair of 
the  informal  negotiations,  he  “encouraged  all  Member 
States  to  demonstrate  a  spirit  of  consensus,  openness 
and good faith and participate actively in the upcoming 
round”.  Italy  identifies  with  his  words,  and,  together 
with  its  Uniting  for  Consensus  partners,  will  be  a 
constructive force during this session. 

Today, I wish to focus on the recent past and the 
future.  I  am  pleased  to  be  doing  so  in  a  plenary 
meeting — the first after a nine-month stalemate in the 
intergovernmental process. That deadlock is the recent 
past.  Negotiations  in  the  General  Assembly  were 
suddenly  broken  off  last  March.  Confidence-building 
was  abruptly  interrupted  by  a  partial  and  divisive 
initiative 
few  Member  States. 
Transparency  was  lost.  Confrontation  made  its  way 
through  New  York  and  the  capitals.  A  forceful  rush 
towards  collecting  support  for  an  ambiguous  and 
overly  simplistic  text  put  stress  on  the  membership. 
While  the  Arab  Spring  was  blossoming,  Security 
Council reform was entering its fall.  

Italy  and  its  partners  refused  to  accept  that 
development.  We  started  a  dialogue  with  every  single 
Member  State.  We  were  open, 
transparent  and 
respectful of what the Assembly decided by consensus 
at  its  sixty-second  session.  We  wanted  to  continue 
negotiations  on  all  five  pillars  of  the  reform  in  a 
comprehensive  way,  as  mandated  by  Assembly 
decision 62/557. We tried to rebuild confidence among 
the groups. 
We  were  honest  with  our African  friends. Aware 

of 
the  historical 
the  continent  and 
conscious of the differences between our positions, we 
tried  to  build  bridges  and  possible  convergences.  We 
made clear that the African and Uniting for Consensus 
positions  are  compatible  in  many  ways,  most  notably 
launched  by  a 
injustice 
to 
11-58384 

11 
A/66/PV.51 

on regional representation, seat allocation, rotation and 
consensus. 

The  dialogue  ended  up  being  held  in  Rome, 
where 123 countries met last May to launch an appeal 
to resume the intergovernmental negotiations in a spirit 
of  compromise,  openness  and  consensus.  Mr. Al-Nasser’s 
predecessor, President Deiss, attended the meeting and 
tried  to  bring  Member  States  back  to  the  negotiating 
table.  Only  then  did  the  handful  of  States  that  had 
promoted the divisive initiative realize their failure and 
acknowledge  that  it  had  been  rejected  by  the  majority 
of the membership. 

The Uniting for Consensus group — this time in 
Mexico  City  —  tried  once  again  to  provide  new 
impetus  to  the  negotiations  in  July.  The  goal  was  to 
build  on  the  ashes  of  the  confrontation  and  seek  a 
serious  compromise.  Both  the  Rome  and  the  Mexico 
City  meetings  were  attended  by  representatives  of  all 
negotiating groups. Good faith and inclusiveness were 
the basis of those attempts. 

Yet  with  summer  and  the  end  of  the  session 
approaching,  the  deadline  passed  and  our  work  was 
rolled  over 
the  sixty-sixth  session,  and  we 
committed ourselves to an immediate resumption of the 
negotiations. Today we are here to resume them. Today 
we  are  here  to  rebuild  the  future  of  the  Security 
Council reform process.  

The lessons of the past should show us the way to 
the  future.  Artificial  acceleration  blocks  the  process 
and  cannot  achieve  the  majority  required  by  the 
Charter. The sixty-fifth session proved this once again. 
We  therefore  need  to  focus  on  true  flexibility  and 
political  will.  I  say  this  in  the  conviction  that  the 
Uniting  for  Consensus  group  has  already  proved  its 
willingness  to  achieve  reform,  which  will  make  the 
Security  Council  more  democratic,  representative, 
accountable  and  flexible  so  as  to  adapt  to  future 
international realities. 
the 

negotiations  with  a  new  proposal.  Our  traditional 
position  envisaged  an  increase  in  the  number  of  only 
the 
two-year-term,  non-permanent  members;  we 
changed  it  in  2009.  We  now  propose  a  solution 
involving  longer-term  seats,  achievable  through  two 
different  options:  short-term  seats  with  immediate 
re-election,  or  long-term  seats  without  immediate 
re-election. 
the  only  group 
into 
We  are 
that  entered 


Our proposal is not, of course, a “take it or leave 
it” one. It is a step towards the middle of the aisle. The 
key  principles  are  compromise,  accountability  and 
consensus.  The  key  words  are  longer-term  seats  and 
re-election. 

We  call  on  President  Al-Nasser  to  exert  moral 
suasion on those Member States whose positions have 
never changed. If the membership really believes in the 
need  for  reform,  it  must  be  flexible  and  ready  to 
negotiate  a  compromise.  Italy  and  its  Uniting  for 
Consensus partners are, as they have been in the past, 
ready to engage constructively and in good faith. 
Mrs.  Viotti  (Brazil):  The  issue  of  Security 

Council  reform  is  high  on  the  agenda  of  the  General 
Assembly.  During  the  general  debate  last  September, 
more  than  100  Member  States  mentioned  in  their 
statements the need for the United Nations to adapt to 
new  political  realities  and  embrace  reform,  including 
an  enlargement  of  the  Security  Council.  This  is  an 
important indication that the issue needs to be taken up 
as a matter of urgency. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  Member  States  agree  on 
the need for the Security Council to be brought in line 
with  today’s  political  realities  and  thus  become  more 
representative,  legitimate,  efficient  and  effective.  The 
majority  view  is  that  an  expansion  in  the  number  of 
both permanent and non-permanent seats is a necessary 
step in that direction. 

The  current  permanent  members  are  limited  to 
those  in  place  at  the  end  of  the  Second World War.  If 
we are serious about bringing the Security Council into 
the  twenty-first  century,  this  state  of  affairs  must  be 
changed. Any  other  option  would  leave  the  status  quo 
untouched and have an undesirable impact on the long-
term legitimacy and credibility of the body responsible 
for the maintenance of international peace and security. 

In  the  same  vein,  for  the  Security  Council  to 
reflect  the  dramatic  expansion  of  the  United  Nations 
membership since 1945, more non-permanent seats are 
needed, in particular for developing countries. 

Since earlier this year, we have been reaching out 
to  other  Member  States  to  discuss  the  idea  of  a  draft 
resolution aimed at opening the door to genuine reform 
and  generating  momentum  for  real  negotiations  to 
start.  The  proposal  we  made  was  concise  and 
straightforward.  It  was  a  constructive  attempt  to 
complement  and  facilitate  the  ongoing  process  of 
11-58384 
12 



intergovernmental  negotiations,  launched  by  General 
Assembly decision 62/557, of 15 September 2008. 

From the very beginning, the initiative sought to 
respond  to  the  call  of  the  facilitator,  who  had  rightly 
pointed  out  that  Member  States  should  take  the  lead 
and  engage  in  consultations  so  as  to  inject  dynamism 
into the process. We were encouraged by the response 
received  from  the  membership.  The  initiative  has 
garnered  cross-regional  support,  including  more  than 
80  written  expressions  of  support,  in  addition  to  a 
substantial  number  of  strong  verbal  commitments, 
reaching well over 100 countries. No other proposal on 
the  table  has  to  date  been  able  to  garner  such  high 
numbers. 

This  demonstrates  quite  clearly  that  a  wide 
coalition  of  Member  States  is  willing  to  stand  behind 
an  expansion  of  the  Security  Council  in  both  the 
permanent  and  non-permanent  categories  and  an 
improvement in its working methods. We believe that, 
should  this  draft  resolution  be  submitted  and  put  to  a 
vote,  many  more  countries  would  join  this  collective 
endeavour  to  move  the  process  forward.  That  is  why 
we  believe  that  such  strong  support  for  the  initiative 
should be considered the basis for further discussion in 
the intergovernmental negotiations, which have our full 
support. 

If  Member  States  keep  their  focus  on  this 
common goal, we can quickly move to the next stage, 
discuss  the  remaining  issues  and  achieve  successful 
reform without further delay. 
We  welcome  the  decision  of  the  President  to 

reappoint  His  Excellency  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin, 
Permanent  Representative  of Afghanistan,  as  Chair  of 
the intergovernmental negotiations. We look forward to 
continuing to work with him constructively with him in 
the months ahead. 

Brazil  will  remain  engaged  and  work  closely  in 
consultation  with  other  delegations,  with  a  view  to 
creating  an  enabling  environment  for  a  concrete 
outcome at this session of the General Assembly. 
(Indonesia):  On  behalf  of 

Ambassador  Hasan  Kleib, 
thank 
President Al-Nasser for having convened this meeting. 
We  would  also  like  to  congratulate Ambassador Tanin 
on  his  reappointment,  at  the  sixty-sixth  session,  as 
Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the 
question of equitable representation on and increase in 
Mr.  Cassidy
I  wish 
to 
A/66/PV.51
the  membership  of  Security  Council  and  related 
matters. 

Indonesia  associates  itself  with  the  statement 
made  earlier  in  this  meeting  by  the  representative  of 
Egypt on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

The  Charter  goals  of  saving  humanity  from  the 
scourge  of  war  and  promoting  social  progress  and  a 
better  standard  of  life  in  larger  freedom  remain  a 
profound collective challenge. For the Security Council 
to play its crucial role, in the context of which support 
from  all  sides  is  key,  it  is  critical  that  the  Council  be 
democratic,  accountable  and  representative  of  all 
regions and civilizations. 

Indonesia  thus  fully  supports  a  comprehensive 
and  meaningful  reform  of  the  Security  Council  and 
maintains  that  all  five  key  reform  issues  should  be 
negotiated  as  an  integral  part  of  a  comprehensive 
package. 

As  we  deliberate  here,  it  is  worth  recalling  that 
Council  reform  has  been  discussed  for  more  than 
16 years. Legitimate arguments by Member States have 
been expressed and reflected in the negotiating text of 
the  informal  plenary  process.  Divisions  continue  to 
exist,  however,  and  progress  has  been  slow.  Progress 
will materialize when a formula for Council reform  is 
found  that  is  acceptable  to  the  widest  majority  of 
countries. 

In connection with the categories of membership, 
Indonesia  is  among  the  countries  that  believe  that  an 
expansion in  both categories would offer the potential 
to address the fundamental shortcoming of the Council 
as  it  is  currently  constituted,  namely,  its  lack  of 
representation.  Yet  it  is  our  considered  view  that  the 
middle  ground  that  could  garner  the  widest  possible 
political  acceptance  on  this  critical  issue  and  move 
things  forward  is  the  intermediate  approach,  with  a 
clear 
the 
intermediate model has come into force. 

There  are  many  variants  on  this  approach.  Our 
view is that the Assembly, at its current session, should 
explore  further  the  kind  of  intermediate  approach  that 
we  can  agree  on.  There  should  be  enough  points  of 
convergence  to  ensure  that  the  broadest  majority  sees 
the  outcome  as  being  a  win-win  solution.  In  stating 
this,  we  are  certainly  not  ruling  out  the  possibility  of 
expanding  the  permanent  membership  in  the  future. 
review  mechanism 
occurring 
after 
11-58384 

13 

that  process 
A/66/PV.51 

That issue could be addressed in the examination of the 
review concept as part of the intermediate approach. 

A piecemeal approach focusing on merely one or 
two  key  reform  issues,  however,  risks  accentuating 
differences  and  affecting  the  overall  process  in  the 
informal  plenary  of  the  General  Assembly.  Member 
States  reached  an  agreement  on 
in 
consensus  decision  62/557,  a  decision  that  has  been 
renewed annually by the Assembly. It is important that 
we abide by decision 62/557. Hence, all five key issues 
of  Council  reform  should  be  considered  in  seeking  a 
solution  that  can  garner  the  widest  possible  political 
acceptance, well beyond the two-thirds majority. 
Regarding  the  size  of  a  reformed  Council,  we 

should  also 
take  a  middle-ground  approach.  A 
suggestion at this stage is to expand the membership to 
a size between the mid-20s and 31. We  need to arrive 
at an agreed number that reflects the world’s plurality, 
which  is  the  vast  number  of  developing  countries  and 
regions,  in  a  more  balanced  manner.  The  present 
underrepresentation of Asia and Africa on the Council 
must  therefore  be  corrected.  Asia  and  Africa  should 
each be allocated at least four additional seats. In that 
regard,  we  also  underscore  the  importance  of  regional 
and subregional representation. 

On  the  question  of  the  veto,  Indonesia  believes 
that  the  right  of  veto  has  no  place  in  a  world  that  is 
becoming more democratic. Until the veto is abolished, 
we will continue to support the principle that the veto 
right  should  not  be  exercised  in  cases  involving 
genocide  and  serious  violations  of 
international 
humanitarian  law.  Indonesia  does  not  support  the 
creation  of  any  new  veto  rights,  and 
interested 
countries  should  consider  this  as  a  quid  pro  quo  for 
limiting  and  regulating  the  existing  veto  rights  of  the 
Permanent Five. 

Indonesia  concurs  with  the  views  expressed  by 
the overwhelming majority that the Council’s working 
methods  should  be  improved  by  making  the  Council 
more transparent, efficient, and accessible to the wider 
membership. 
Article  31  and Article  32  of  the  United  Nations 

implemented  by 
Charter 
consulting  with  non-members  of  the  Security  Council 
on  a  regular  basis,  especially  members  with  a  special 
interest  in  the  substantive  matters  under  consideration 
by  the  Council.  The  Council  should  grant  affected 
the  Council’s  subsidiary 
non-members  access 
should  be  effectively 
to 
My 
delegation 
notes  with 
organs, including the right to participate and to provide 
substantive  inputs.  The  Council  should  hold  regular, 
timely  and  meaningful  consultations  with  troop-  and 
police-contributing  countries,  as  well  as  with  other 
countries that are directly involved in, or affected by, a 
given peacekeeping operation, throughout all stages of 
a mission. 

Without prejudice to Article 24 of the Charter, the 
reform  should  also  explicitly  clarify  the  functions  and 
powers  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the  issues  of 
international  peace  and  security,  which  are  not 
regulated under Chapter V of the Charter in its present 
language.  In  a  scenario  where  the  Council  does  not 
take  action  on  a  case  that  is  clearly  threatening 
international  peace  and  security,  the Assembly  should 
have the power to make recommendations, even if the 
Council does not request it to do so. 

appreciation 
Ambassador  Tanin’s  hard  work  in  drawing  up  and 
updating the negotiating text. While it provides a good 
basis  for  further  negotiations,  no  matter  how  hard  we 
try to fine-tune the text, any breakthrough in resolving 
differences will have to be made beyond the text. 

While  the  respective  positions  of  Member  States 
are  dear  to  them,  greater  political  flexibility  will  be 
required  of  all  in  order  to  move  towards  the  points  of 
convergence. In our view, Council reform will be best 
achieved  through  a  consensus-based  formula  or  at 
least,  as  we  agreed,  with  the  widest  possible  political 
acceptance. 
For  its  part,  Indonesia  remains  determined  to 

engage constructively with all countries to find ways to 
ensure  the  tangible  and  comprehensive  reform  of  the 
Council. 
(Germany):  Today’s  debate  on 

Security  Council  reform  provides  a  good  opportunity 
to  take  stock  and  to  further  build  on  the  momentum 
achieved  during  the  preceding  session  of  the  General 
Assembly.  In  that  regard,  allow  me  to  highlight  the 
three lessons learned from last year’s experience. 

First, we have made progress. I wish to highlight, 
in  particular,  that  the  process  of  intergovernmental 
negotiations  was  renewed  in  an  important  session 
under  the  able  chairmanship  of  Ambassador  Tanin. 
However,  when  it  comes  to  the  concrete  and  forward-
looking  initiatives  presented,  one  lesson  is  clear.  One, 
and  only  one,  concrete  proposal  has  received  the 
Mr.  Wittig
14 

11-58384 
among 
the 
need 


support of a large majority of Member States from all 
regional  groups.  That  was  the  initiative  taken  by  the 
Group  of  Four  countries  to  increase  the  number  of 
permanent and non-permanent seats on the Council and 
to  improve  its  working  methods.  I  daresay  that,  while 
that initiative may not be the only game in town, it is 
surely the strongest. It should thus also be at the centre 
of  our  discussions  in  the  ongoing  intergovernmental 
negotiations process. 

Secondly, a number of meetings and conferences 
on Security Council reform were held, both within and 
outside the United Nations, which clearly demonstrates 
that  Member  States  are  eager  to  achieve  progress  on 
that  issue.  However,  if  we  want  to  ensure  substantive 
entire  United  Nations 
discussions 
membership,  we 
the 
intergovernmental 
negotiations  to  be  held  more  frequently.  We  therefore 
urge  the  Chair  of  the  informal  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform  to  resume 
those negotiations as soon as possible and to maintain a 
regular meeting schedule. Also, should President Al-Nasser 
deem any other format to be appropriate for achieving 
substantial results, we can assure you of our support. 
Thirdly, we all agree that the process of Council 

reform 
should  be  membership-driven.  However, 
negotiations  during  the  last  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  demonstrated 
that  we  cannot  negotiate 
reform  on  the  basis  of  a  30-page  document.  We  will 
need  the  assistance  of  Ambassador  Tanin  in  focusing 
our  discussions  on  a  realistic  range  of  options.  As  a 
first  step,  we  suggest  continuing  discussions  based  on 
those options that have been proven to reflect majority 
positions. Let us focus on those principles on which we 
have  reached  broad  agreement  and  use  them  as  a 
starting point to narrow our differences. 

In  September,  during  the  opening  of  the  current 
General Assembly session in New York, the majority of 
heads  of  delegation  called  for  the  United  Nations 
system  to  be  reformed.  That  includes  a  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  at  its  core.  Reform  is  urgently 
needed,  not  least  because  other  institutions  of  global 
governance, such as the Group of Eight or the Group of 
Twenty,  are  gaining  influence.  The  Security  Council 
has  to  adapt  in  order  to  remain  the  centrepiece  of  the 
international  peace  architecture  in  the  twenty-first 
century.  We  must  therefore  redouble  our  efforts  to 
achieve  concrete  outcomes  during  the  current  session 
of the General Assembly. My country, Germany, stands 
ready to contribute its part. 
A/66/PV.51
it 
fulfil 
issues 
to  better 
isolation  of  part  of 
The  five  clusters  of  core 
Mr.  Wang  Min  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese): 

Security  Council  reform  is  an  important  part  of  the 
larger  reform  process  of  the  United  Nations.  China 
supports  a  reasonable  and  necessary  reform  of  the 
Security Council in order  to increase its authority and 
efficiency  and  enable 
the 
responsibility  of  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security  entrusted  to  it  by  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.  

Security  Council  reform  should  give  priority  to 
increasing  the  representation  of  developing  countries, 
those  in Africa  in  particular.  The  reform  should  offer 
greater  opportunities  to  more  countries,  particularly 
small  and  medium-sized  countries,  to  serve  in  the 
Security  Council  on  a  rotating  basis  in  order  to  allow 
them to participate in its decision-making process. 
involving 

Security  Council  reform  are 
interrelated.  Reform 
should strive to reach a package solution on these core 
issues.  The  artificial 
the 
intrinsically  linked  five  clusters  of  issues  or  the 
adoption  of  a  step-by-step  or  piecemeal  approach  will 
not work.  

Security  Council  reform  involves  the  immediate 
interests  of  all  Member  States.  Reform  requires 
in-depth  participation  by  all  Member  States  and 
accommodation  of  the  interests  and  concerns  of  all 
parties in order to reach the widest possible consensus 
through extensive and democratic consultations.  

As Member States may be seriously divided over 
the core issues involving Security Council reform, they 
need  to  remain  engaged  in  dialogue,  negotiations  and 
consultations. China is against setting an artificial time 
limit  for  reform  or  pushing  through  any  solution  over 
which  Member  States  still  have  serious  disputes. 
Gamesmanship  or  playing  on  words  will  lead  us 
nowhere.  

intergovernmental 
Since 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform,  Member 
States  have  had  serious  discussions  on  the  core  issues 
involving  reform  of  the  Security  Council,  which  has 
deepened  the  mutual  understanding  of  one  another’s 
positions.  The  intergovernmental  negotiations  have 
emerged  as  a  main  channel  for  pursuing  Security 
Council reform. Recent developments have shown that 
any  acts  that  may  undermine  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations are detrimental to the process of Security 
Council reform and do not serve the common interests 
the 
launch  of 
the 
11-58384 

15 
In 

to 
to 
ready 
China 
stands 
support 
supports 
A/66/PV.51 

of  the  Member  States.  Meanwhile,  China  opposes  any 
attempt to create separate tracks beyond the framework 
of the intergovernmental negotiations.  

the  decision 
continue 
intergovernmental  negotiations  pursuant  to  General 
Assembly decision 62/557 at the current session of the 
General Assembly. The intergovernmental negotiations 
should follow the principles of openness, inclusiveness 
and  transparency  and  should  be  driven  by  Member 
States, so as to arrive at a solution that promotes unity 
among Member States and serves their overall interests 
and  the  long-term  interests  of  the  United  Nations. 
China 
the  work  of 
Mr. Al-Nasser, President of the General Assembly, and 
Ambassador Tanin, Facilitator of the intergovernmental 
negotiations.  
Mr.  Briens  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  The 

President  of  the  General  Assembly  has  made  United 
Nations reform into one of the priorities of his term in 
office.  In  his  inaugural  speech,  the  focus  was  on  the 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  and  on  the  need  to 
pursue  the  efforts  made  hitherto.  He  is  quite  correct; 
we  do  need 
the  process  and 
initiatives  launched  at  the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the 
General Assembly forward in to order to move beyond 
mere words, if we wish to see a Security Council that 
reflects to a greater extent today’s world — a Security 
Council  that  is  adapted  to  new  challenges  and  fully 
capable  of  shouldering  all  of  its  responsibilities  when 
confronted with crises that threaten international peace 
and security. 

Much progress has been made since we began the 
intergovernmental  negotiation  process  in  2009  led  by 
Ambassador Tanin. That  progress  was  made  thanks  to 
the  efforts  of  the  facilitator,  the  successive  Presidents 
of  the  General Assembly  and  the  Member  States.  We 
have succeeded in identifying elements of convergence 
that we could explore further, for example, concerning 
enlargement  of  the  Council  in  the  two  categories  of 
membership,  permanent  and  non-permanent.  We  are 
duty-bound now to be bold and to move to the heart of 
the  matter.  Out  of  respect  for  the  work  already 
accomplished,  standing  still  or  moving  backwards  is 
not an option. 

and 
unchanged.  Reform  of  the  Security  Council  must  take 
on  board  the  emergence  of  new  Powers  that  have  the 
will and the capacity to shoulder the responsibilities of 
to  continue  move 
straightforward 
requirements 
The 
are 
result 
to  make  an 
in  a  position 
permanent  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and 
which  are,  in  conformity  with  the  United  Nations 
Charter, 
important 
contribution  to  Council  action  in  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security.  

that  context,  France  supports  permanent 
membership  for  Germany,  Brazil,  India  and  Japan,  as 
well  as  representation  for  the  countries  of Africa. The 
matter  of  representation  for  the Arab  countries  is  also 
on  the  table.  Beyond  that,  France’s  position  has  not 
changed.  We  stand  ready,  as  do  many  States  of 
goodwill  in  this  Assembly,  to  work  actively  to  break 
the  deadlock  and  overcome  the  principled  positions. 
That  could  involve  considering  an  interim  solution  in 
accordance with a proposal that was made jointly three 
years ago by the President of the French Republic and 
the  Prime  Minister  of  the  United  Kingdom.  The 
modalities and parameters of that solution are not set in 
stone  or  predetermined; 
they  must 
from 
negotiations among the Member States. 

The  reform  must  not  be  allowed  to  fall  off  our 
priority  agenda,  because  if  it  does,  it  will  stay  off  it 
indefinitely.  Alongside 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform,  it  is  within  the  powers  of  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly 
the 
discussions.  Getting  Member  States  to  negotiate  in  a 
genuine manner is a matter of shared political will. The 
guidelines  that  the  President  of  the  General Assembly 
gives  us  will  be  crucial  to  that  end.  Far-reaching 
reform of the Security Council, which could take place 
after  a  transition  period,  will  require  audacity  and 
perseverance.  France  stands  ready 
to  make  our 
contribution and provide our support to this objective. 
Mr.  Oyarzun  (Spain)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 

have  been  mandated  by  the  General  Assembly  to 
immediately  continue  intergovernmental  negotiations 
on the reform of the Security Council. I am referring to 
decision 
on 
12 September.  I  am  afraid  that  the  task  will  not  be  an 
easy one. Allow me to explain why. 

It  is  a  fact  that  negotiations  are  now  at  a 
standstill. The seventh round of negotiations took place 
on 2 March, and since then no other meeting has taken 
place. Eight months have already gone by. 

From  our  point  of  view,  there  are  two  primary 
reasons for the current impasse — on the one hand, the 
rejection of the third revision of the negotiating text by 
to  give  new 
consensus 
impetus 
adopted 
65/554 
Chair 
the 
by 
of 
to 
16 

11-58384 


some  of  the  groups  and  countries  present  at  that 
meeting,  and  on  the  other  hand,  the  launching  of 
divisive initiatives by some other groups, in an attempt 
to  take  advantage  of  the  impasse  exclusively  for  their 
own gain. 

I  have  called  those  initiatives  “divisive”  for  the 
following  reasons.  First  of  all,  the  initiatives  were 
launched  outside  of 
the  negotiations.  They  were 
therefore  not  open,  inclusive  and  transparent,  as 
required  by  decision  62/557.  Secondly,  they  did  not 
include each and every one of the five key issues of the 
reform,  but  only  those  that  fit  the  promoters’  own 
interests.  The  result  is  quite  clear;  the  stalemate  has 
only  become  more  entrenched. This  is  the  situation  in 
which  we  find  ourselves.  I  am  quite  sure  that  we  all 
agree that it is urgent that we put an end to the present 
situation. 

We believe that it is the role of the President, as 
well as Ambassador Tanin’s — whom we congratulate 
for his confirmation as Chair of the negotiations — to 
make a concrete proposal to that effect. 

In  our  opinion,  the  starting  point  should  be  the 
two  main  lessons  we  learned  during  the  previous 
session. First of all, we should recognize that the third 
revision  of  the  negotiating  text  has  not  been  accepted 
by  all  on  a  consensual  basis  and  that,  consequently,  it 
should be revised again. Otherwise, we believe that we 
have  no  alternative  but  to  go  back  to  the  second 
revision  of  the  text,  the  only  one  endorsed  by  all 
groups and countries. 
Secondly, we should acknowledge that we cannot 

unilaterally change the rules set by resolution 62/557 in 
the middle of the game. 

The President can count on the full support of the 
Spanish delegation in this matter. I think we have given 
sufficient  proof  of  our  flexibility  and  constructive 
spirit.  Obviously,  the  President  can  also  count  on  the 
full  support  of  the  Uniting  for  Consensus  group,  to 
which  we  belong.  I  would  like  to  bring  to  the 
Assembly’s  attention  the  fact  that  the  Uniting  for 
Consensus group continues to be the only one so far to 
have  presented  an  alternative  model  of  its  original 
position.  It  was  presented  in  April  2009,  during  the 
first  round  of  negotiations,  as  the  representative  of 
Italy has pointed out. 

the 
so-called intermediate model, such as the creation of a 
That  model  contains  some  elements  of 
A/66/PV.51
new  or 
intermediate  category  of  non-permanent 
members with longer-term seats. I would like to clarify 
that  the  model  was  presented  with  the  expectation  of 
reciprocity on the part of other groups, an expectation 
that  has,  unfortunately,  not  been  fulfilled.  For  that 
reason,  the  position  of  Spain  and  the  Uniting  for 
Consensus  group  continues  to  be  the  original  one  that 
we  presented  in  2005.  It  is  a  comprehensive  model 
with realistic proposals for each of the five key issues 
regarding  Security  Council  reform:  categories  and 
veto,  size,  regional  representation,  working  methods 
and the relationship between the Security Council and 
the General Assembly. 

It  is  a  well-known  fact  that  one  of  its  main 
characteristics  is  a  provision  to  enlarge  the  Council 
exclusively in the category of non-permanent members. 
We firmly believe that only an expansion in the number 
of  elected  seats  can  ensure  the  preservation  of  the 
democratic principle that should lie at the heart of the 
legitimacy of any Security Council reform. 

During  the  2005  World  Summit,  we  committed 
ourselves  to  an  early  reform  of  the  Security  Council, 
including  its  working  methods,  to  make  it  more 
effective,  efficient, 
transparent,  representative  and 
legitimate.  We  committed  ourselves  to  increasing  the 
involvement  of  States  that  are  not  members  of  the 
Council  and  to  improving  its  accountability.  Six  years 
have  passed  since  then.  We  have  made  progress,  but 
not enough. 

We  believe  that  the  time  has  come  to  make 
headway in a more decisive way towards a compromise 
solution,  the  only  one  in  our  opinion  that  can  be 
adopted by consensus. To that end, perhaps we can be 
guided by the five principles presented by the President 
of  the  previous  session,  Mr.  Deiss,  to  whom  we  pay 
tribute,  during  the  Rome  ministerial  conference  on 
global  governance  and  Security  Council  reform,  held 
on  16  May  of  this  year.  Those  principles  are  the 
broadest  possible  support,  respect  for  the  fundamental 
values of the United Nations, simplicity, efficiency and 
flexibility. 

the 
determination of the Spanish delegation to work with a 
spirit  of  flexibility  and  constructiveness  towards  this 
objective. 
Mr.  Alcántara  Mejía  (Dominican  Republic) 

(spoke in Spanish): We  welcome  the  sense  of  urgency 
with  which  the  President  has  dealt  with  the  topic  of 
To  conclude,  I  would 
like 
to  reiterate 
11-58384 

17 

the 
leadership 
the  effort  and 
Permanent  Representative 
A/66/PV.51 

equitable  representation  on  the  Security  Council,  the 
increase in its membership and other related issues. We 
likewise  welcome  the  fact  that  the  President  has 
confirmed 
of 
Afghanistan, Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  as  chair  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform.  We  value 
that 
Ambassador Tanin has shown over many years on this 
complex question. 

The Dominican Republic would like to state right 
away  that  we  support  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement. 

Security  Council  reform  is  a  topic  that  has  been 
on  the  Organization’s  agenda  for  18  years.  We  are 
struck  by  the  fact  that  we  have  still  been  unable  to 
achieve  conclusive  results.  If  we  were  to  take  this 
situation  as  an  example  of  the  way  we  work  in  this 
house,  it  would  clearly  serve  as  a  very  bad  example. 
And  if  the  outcome  of  this  exercise  had  been  crucial 
for halting an international conflict, we would have had 
a disaster on our hands a long time ago. 
The  Dominican  Republic  would  like  to  stress  its 

commitment  to  cooperating  constructively  with  the 
other  delegations  to  reform  the  Council  to  bring  that 
important  organ  into  line  with  today’s  geopolitical 
realities, and  also to make  it more efficient in its task 
of  maintaining  international  peace  and  security.  The 
world  of  2011  is  very  different  from  the  one  of  1963, 
when the number of members on the Council rose from 
11  to  15. At  that  time  there  were  115  Member  States; 
today our number has risen to 193. 

reformed  Council  would  enjoy  greater 
credibility  and  authority  to  address  the  challenges  we 
face  in  the  international  arena.  Those  are  challenges 
that require structural reform, including an increase in 
the  number  of  members  and  their  categories,  the 
Council’s  working  methods,  the  veto,  the  nature  of 
representation  and  the  relationship  of  the  Council  to 
other  United  Nations  organs  such  as  the  General 
Assembly and the Economic and Social Council. 

However, for the Dominican Republic, given the 
time that has gone by and the meagre results that have 
been  achieved,  it  would  make  sense  to  speed  up  our 
conversations on Security Council reform and to focus 
them  on  two  fundamental  issues:  the  increase  in  the 
number  of  members  and  their  categories,  and  the 
Council’s working methods. Put to the test, such a plan 
A 
the 
inclusive 
in  order 
to  strengthen 
would  enhance  this  Organization’s  credibility  and  its 
ability  to  fulfil  the  goals  set  forth  in  the  Charter.  In 
addition,  we  would  be  complying  with  a  request  for 
reform  that  has  been  consistently  demanded  by  the 
majority of the Member States.  

My  country  has  always  advocated  a  fair  and 
equitable expansion of the Security Council that would 
increase 
total  number  of  permanent  and 
non-permanent members and that would guarantee the 
proper  representation  of  developing  countries.  To 
correct the prevailing lack of equity on the Council, we 
would  hope  for  an  increase  in  members  coming  from 
such  under-represented  regions  as  Africa,  Asia,  and 
Latin America and the Caribbean. 

There have been  a few significant improvements 
to  the  Council’s  working  methods  and  procedures. 
However, both accountability and transparency need to 
be  enhanced,  and  the  Council’s  operation  needs  to  be 
made  more 
its 
legitimacy and effectiveness. We support an increase in 
the  number  of  public  debates  and 
interactive 
information  sessions  as  a  standard  that  would  benefit 
States not members of that body.  

We have focused on those two aspects of reform 
because  we  must  prioritize  the  objectives  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  a  basis  that  ensures 
that  the  Security  Council’s  decision-making  ability  is 
strengthened 
fair  and 
equitable representation.  

That is why have joined the coalition of countries 
promoting  a  draft  resolution  aimed  at  achieving  a 
Security  Council  that  is  broader,  acts  with  greater 
authority,  greater  unity  and  greater  credibility  and 
operates  in  a  more  democratic  manner.  The  initiative 
includes  the  proposals  and  positions  that  have  largely 
been  accepted  by  the  Member  States,  regional  groups 
and other groupings that have taken part in the Security 
Council reform process over the years.  
The  Dominican  Republic  is  convinced  that  the 

challenges  of  today’s  world  require  a  United  Nations 
system  that  is  more  robust,  more  representative  and 
more  effective,  including  the  Security  Council.  That 
task was entrusted to us by our political leaders at the 
2005  World  Summit.  My  delegation  is  ready  to  work 
towards  that  objective  with  the  greatest  flexibility, 
compromise and political will, because we believe that 
those  conditions  will  be  essential  to  be  able  to  move 
through  efficiency  and  a 
18 

11-58384 
reform. 
creating 
towards 
in  order 


forward and to obtain specific results in the debates on 
Security Council reform. 
Mr.  Nishida  (Japan):  I  would  like  to  thank  the 

President  for  convening  today’s  plenary  meeting  to 
discuss  Security  Council 
Japan  highly 
appreciates his identification of United Nations reform 
and  revitalization  as  one  of  the  four  priority  areas  of 
the sixty-sixth session of the General Assembly. As he 
pointed  out,  in  order  for  the  Organization  to  remain 
legitimate  it  is  important  that  there  is  strong  political 
will  to  realize  previous  resolutions  and  decisions.  In 
that  regard,  early  reform  of  the  Security  Council  is 
truly needed. 

I  would  also  like  to  commend  the  President’s 
swift reappointment of Ambassador Tanin as the chair 
of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  fully  trust 
that  he  and Ambassador  Tanin  will  exercise  proactive 
leadership 
to  promote  substantive  and 
meaningful discussions among Member States. 

Various  efforts  have  been  made  to  reform  the 
Security Council so that it better reflects the realities of 
the twenty-first century, and not the world of 60 years 
ago. I believe that all Member States are committed to 
realizing  early  reform  so  that  the  United  Nations  can 
address 
greater 
representativeness, legitimacy and effectiveness.  
In  the  Assembly’s  prior  session,  the  Group  of 

Four  (G-4)  took  the  initiative  to  propose  a  draft 
resolution  on  reform,  and  other  Member  States  were 
also actively engaged in serious discussion of the issue, 
thus 
real 
negotiations.  

On  the  basis  of  the  progress  achieved  at  the  last 
session, we must take the next step towards achieving a 
concrete  outcome.  Although  there  remains  a  wide 
difference  in  views  among  Member  States,  I  believe 
that all are now ready to begin substantive negotiations 
aimed  at  finding  a  solution  that  can  accommodate 
different views and garner the widest possible political 
acceptance,  as  required  by  previous  decisions  of  the 
Assembly.  To  that  end,  we  hope  to  see  a  spirit  of 
flexibility demonstrated by every Member State for the 
purpose  of  beginning  constructive,  results-oriented 
discussions on the way forward. 

We  fully  share  the  President’s  view  that  the 
collective political will of the membership is necessary 
to advance our efforts to  reform the Security Council. 
strong  momentum 
challenges 
present 
with 
A/66/PV.51
in  both 
the  permanent 
The  G-4  Foreign  Ministers  met  in  New  York  on 
23 September  and  expressed  their  determination  to 
work in close cooperation with other Member States in 
a  spirit  of  flexibility  and  to  press  ahead  with  all  steps 
necessary to achieve a concrete outcome in the current 
session.  

With  regard  to  the  draft  resolution  on  expansion 
of 
the  Council 
and 
non-permanent  categories  and  on  improvement  of  its 
working  methods,  the  Ministers  expressed  the  view 
that the strong support extended to the initiative should 
be  considered  as  a  basis  for  further  discussion  in  the 
ongoing intergovernmental negotiations. 

All  Member  States  must  proactively  commit  to 
the  reform  effort  and  take  steps  to  accelerate  the 
process with  a sense of urgency. Japan, for its part, is 
sparing  no  effort  to  promote  substantive  discussions 
with  like-minded  countries,  in  a  spirit  of  openness, 
transparency, honesty and realism.  

In  that  regard,  I  take  the  opportunity  to  mention 
today  that  the  Japanese  Government  is  organizing  a 
dialogue  in  Tokyo  on  Security  Council  reform,  to  be 
held  on  14  November.  Our  goal  is  to  open  a  new 
chapter  on  an  honest,  open  and  substantive  dialogue, 
which  is  essential  in  order  to  explore  achievable 
reform. Japan would highly appreciate the participation 
of  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  in  that 
meeting. It is our hope that the dialogue will stimulate 
fruitful discussions, in continuity with previous efforts, 
to generate further dynamism for meaningful progress. 
We  are  ready  to  share  the  results  with  all  interested 
Member States. 

Now  is  the  time  to  take  concrete  action.  Japan 
welcomes  the  next  round  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations,  to  be  held  at  the  end  of  this  month,  and 
hopes that the Tokyo dialogue will add impetus to the 
discussions in the negotiations. We strongly wish to see 
more 
frequent  and  substantive  negotiations  and 
welcome  any  initiative  from  Member  States  that  can 
generate  momentum  towards  a  real  solution.  In  that 
regard,  we  believe  that  the  streamlining  of  the  third 
revision  of  the  negotiation  text  to  include  narrowed-
down  options  would  help  in  moving  the  negotiation 
process forward. 

In conclusion, I would like to reiterate once again 
Japan’s firm commitment to exert all efforts to achieve 
a concrete reform outcome during the present session, 
11-58384 

19 

to 
the 
Algeria 
reiterates 
negotiations, 
its  commitment 
A/66/PV.51 

in  close  cooperation  with  the  President,  Ambassador 
Tanin and all Member States. 
Mr.  Benmehidi  (Algeria): At  the  outset  I  would 

like to express our appreciation to the facilitator of the 
intergovernmental 
Permanent 
Representative  of  Afghanistan,  Ambassador  Zahir 
Tanin, for his tireless efforts to advance the process of 
Security  Council  reform,  and  I  wish  to  congratulate 
him  on  his  reappointment  for  the  current  session.  My 
delegation remains committed to the intergovernmental 
negotiations process, which is the appropriate and only 
framework in which Security Council reform should be 
discussed, as mandated by the General Assembly. 

Algeria  aligns  itself  with  the  statements  made 
earlier  by  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Egypt  on 
behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and  by  the 
Permanent Representative of Sierra Leone on behalf of 
the African Group. 
the 

aspirations  of  Africa  as  contained  in  the  Ezulwini 
Consensus  and  the  Sirte  Declaration,  asking  for  no 
fewer  than  two  permanent  seats  for  Africa  with  all 
rights  and  prerogatives  related  to  that  category  of 
membership,  including  the  veto,  as  well  as  two 
additional  non-permanent 
In  our  view, 
enlargement in both the permanent and non-permanent 
categories should be understood in accordance with the 
provisions of the Charter  and should include the veto. 
That position aims at correcting the historical injustice 
that  makes  Africa  the  only  continent  that  is  not 
represented in the permanent category. 
Algeria  is  ready  to  work  constructively  for 

substantive 
intergovernmental 
negotiations within a transparent and inclusive process 
and in a spirit of consensus-reaching. It is important to 
note  the  comprehensive  nature  of  Security  Council 
reform  and  that  all  its  themes  and  elements  are 
interrelated  and  cannot  be  addressed  in  an  isolated 
manner. In that regard, the Council’s working methods 
should receive equal attention and should be treated in 
an approach integrating the other clusters. 

Algeria is ready to consider the third  revision of 
the  compilation  text  as  the  basis  for  the  negotiations, 
provided that such consideration is done in the spirit of 
decision  62/557  and  subsequent  General  Assembly 
resolutions.  However,  we  continue  to  believe  that  that 
document  requires  further  elaboration  in  order  to 
reflect all positions and proposals. The Member States 
progress 
seats. 
the 
in 
should  work  together  to  agree  on  a  set  of  principles 
before streamlining the compilation text and narrowing 
down  positions  in  all  their  aspects.  Algeria  is  of  the 
view  that  once  an  agreement  on  a  set  of  principles  is 
reached,  it  will  become  much  easier  to  identify  the 
many  areas  of  convergence  that  exist  between  the 
different proposals and positions. 
Mr. Kim Sook (Republic of Korea): First of all, I 

would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  once  again 
convey to the President my Government’s sincere wish 
for his successful presidency. I would also like to thank 
the  current  President  of  the  Security  Council,  His 
Excellency Ambassador Moraes Cabral of Portugal, for 
his  introduction  of  the  report  of  the  Security  Council 
(A/66/2) earlier this morning.  

I wish to express my delegation’s appreciation for 
the  extensive  work  carried  out  by  the  Council  during 
the  reporting  period.  In  particular,  it  should  not  be 
forgotten that the Council made a very meaningful and 
historic  contribution  to  the  democratization  process  in 
the  Middle  East  during  the  tumultuous  period  that 
began late last year. 
Let  me  start  by  mentioning  that  the  Republic  of 

Korea  has  constructively  taken  part  in  the  ongoing 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform during the past few years. As a member of the 
Uniting for Consensus group, I would like to highlight 
that  we  were  the  only  group  to  exercise  flexibility  by 
modifying  our  initial  stance  of  2005.  That  step  was  a 
genuine  effort  to  bridge  the  gap  in  the  differences  of 
opinions  and  perspectives  among  the  major  groups 
with  a  view 
the  Council  more 
democratic, representative and accountable. 

for 
Consensus  group’s  sincere  efforts  to  reach  some  form 
of common ground have not been reciprocated. Instead, 
during the last session of the General Assembly, there 
was 
the 
intergovernmental negotiations framework. As a result, 
the intergovernmental negotiations were on hiatus. The 
entire  membership  suffers  the  consequences  of  that 
inaction. 
The  current  structure  of  the  Security  Council  is 

the  outcome  of  a  war  that  ended  66  years  ago. 
Obviously, the Council does not adequately reflect the 
current 
state  of 
international  affairs,  nor  does  it  duly  reflect  the 
capacities of its relevant actors. 
towards  making 
Unfortunately, 
the  Uniting 
environment 
surrounding 
unilateral 
however, 
initiative 
outside 
the 
a 
20 

11-58384 
to 
remain  on 
the  Council  be  subject 



However, that simple truth cannot be the grounds 
for causing even more injustice by adding a handful of 
permanent  members 
the  Council 
indefinitely,  thereby  turning  a  blind  eye  to  the  needs 
and  wishes  of  the  greater  membership.  If  we  were  to 
commit  ourselves  to  the  rigidity  of  having  additional 
permanent members, we would lose the flexibility and 
legitimacy necessary to adapt to the changing political 
and economic landscape of the future. 

Against that backdrop, I would like to emphasize 
that  the  only  reasonable  way  to  bring  about  a  more 
accountable, transparent and efficient Security Council 
is  to  hold  periodic  elections.  Only  through  periodic 
elections  for  an  enlarged  Council  of  a  reasonable  size 
will  we  be  able  to  attain  a  more  democratic  and 
equitable  representation.  Only  then  will  the  members 
of 
to  performance  and 
contribution reviews to determine if an additional term 
is warranted for a given member. 

My  delegation  strongly  believes  that  the  most 
tangible  way  to  break  the  current  deadlock  in  these 
negotiations  would  be  to  reach  some  sort  of  middle 
ground through an intermediate solution. We have been 
flexible  in  the  past  and  we  are  willing  to  work 
constructively  with  the  greater  membership  in  the 
future  as  well  to  further  flesh  out  the  details  of  this 
approach. 
The  Republic  of  Korea,  as  a  democratic 

the  Uniting  for 
mid-power  State, 
like  most  of 
Consensus  members,  genuinely 
looks  forward 
to 
reasonable,  simple  and  realistic  yet  durable  and 
justifiable Security Council reform. Looking back, the 
most  serious  obstacle  on  the  road  to  reform  has  been 
the lack of trust and of willingness to compromise. The 
process  has  at  times  been  frustrating.  However,  this 
issue  is  too  important  for  inaction.  Indeed,  we  have  a 
collective duty to achieve this crucial task not only for 
the United Nations, but also for future generations. 

My delegation is convinced that there have  been 
convergences  in  other  key  areas,  such  as  the  idea  of 
increasing the size of the Security Council to the low to 
mid-twenties,  more  reasonable  exercise  of  the  veto, 
better  representation  by  underrepresented  regional 
groups,  stronger 
the  General 
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council,  and  ameliorating 
the  Council’s  working  methods. Again,  my  delegation 
hopes  that  those  ideas  can  be  realized  and  finalized 
under the framework of an intermediate approach. 
relations  between 
A/66/PV.51

It is our understanding that the intergovernmental 
negotiations  will  finally  be  resumed  in  the  coming 
weeks. We look forward to the impartial stewardship of 
the  chair, Ambassador  Tanin,  so  that  notable  progress 
can be made during the Assembly’s current session. 

For our part,  the Government of the Republic of 
Korea  will  continue  to  make  constructive  efforts  to 
realize  the  goal  of  establishing  a  more  accountable, 
efficient and democratic Security Council. 
Mr.  AlJarallah  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I 

would  like  to  begin  by  thanking  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Portugal,  current  President  of  the 
Security  Council,  for  his  introduction  of  the  report  of 
the  Security  Council  on  its  activities  during  the  past 
year  (A/66/2)  to  the  General  Assembly.  The  report 
shows  a  significant  increase  in  the  workload  of  the 
Council. 

My  delegation  warmly  congratulates  the  new 
non-permanent  members  of  the  Security  Council  — 
Azerbaijan,  Guatemala,  Morocco,  Pakistan 
and 
Togo — on their election to the Council for the period 
of 2012 and 2013.  

My delegation associates itself with the statement 
delivered  earlier  by  the  representative  of  Egypt  on 
behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement.  

the  efforts  of 
Ambassador  Tanin,  who  has  been 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the  reform  of  the 
Security  Council.  We  hope  that  at  the  current  session 
we will achieve progress in this matter and that we will 
see the long-awaited historic agreement that will fulfil 
our  aspirations  on  revitalizing 
the  Council  and 
improving its working methods. 
the  question  of 
that 

is  perfectly  natural 
the 
increase 
equitable  representation  on  and 
membership  of 
the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters should be considered one of the most important 
agenda  items.  In  fact,  a  firm  and  critical  decision  is 
necessary, today, in order to promote Security Council 
reform. Despite the consensus of Member States on the 
principle  of  reform  and  change,  we  have  remained 
incapable  of  carrying  out  the  basic  steps  for  such 
necessary change.  

My  delegation  reaffirms  the  importance  of  the 
proposals  on  expanding  and  reforming  the  Council 
garnering  the  support  of  all  the  Member  States. 
the  start  of 
Nineteen  years  have  passed  since 
We  welcome  and 
support 
leading 
It 
in 
11-58384 

21 

A/66/PV.51 

negotiations  on  expanding  the  Council  and  improving 
its  working  methods,  and  several  initiatives  and  ideas 
have  been  submitted.  However,  the  issue  remains 
hindered,  and  thus  political  will  is  required  to  find 
common ground on the issues and achieve the expected 
objective.  

The  recurrent  challenges  in  the  international 
sphere  impel  us  to  make  an  even  greater  effort  to 
improve the negotiations. We must reaffirm our support 
to  that  collective  work  whose  noble  final  objective 
involves the entire international community. 

The position of the State of Kuwait has remained 
firm and unchanged in recent years and is based on the 
following elements.  
First,  the  issue  of  Security  Council  reform  must 

be  part  of  a  comprehensive  vision  aimed  at  reforming 
the  Council  and  improving  all  United  Nations  bodies. 
We  must  support  integrated  and  balanced  work  in  the 
Council  and  focus  on  improving  the  relationship 
between it and other main United Nations bodies, such 
as the General Assembly and the Economic and Social 
Council.  We  must  avoid  any 
in  or 
encroachment  on  the  prerogatives  of  the  General 
Assembly,  and  the  Security  Council  must  stress  its 
main  function,  according 
the 
maintenance of international peace and security.  
Secondly,  any  possible  reform  of  the  Council 

must result in its increased representativeness and must 
reflect  the  current  international  situation,  which  has 
drastically changed since 1945. 

Thirdly, it is extremely important to improve the 
Council’s  working  methods.  We  must  improve  its 
transparency 
regular 
procedures  in  order  to  improve  and  organize  its 
working methods. 

Fourthly,  the  veto  must  be  subject  to  certain 
limits and controls to ration its use, perhaps under the 
framework  of  issues  arising  under  Chapter  VII  of  the 
Charter.  

Fifthly,  increasing  the  number  of  seats  in  the 
Council must provide an opportunity for small States to 
join  the  Council  and  take  part  in  its  work.  My 
delegation  would  also  stress  the  right  of  Arab  States 
and Muslim States to representation, in line with their 
importance  and  their  contribution  to  defending  the 
principles and purposes of the Charter. 
the  Charter,  of 
and  develop 
interference 
formal 
and 
to 
offer 
Allow  me 
negotiations 
talks  will  ultimately  serve 
to  reiterate  our  full  support 

The  complex  and  urgent  challenges  and  issues 
facing  the  international  community  should  encourage 
our  increased  determination  in  stepping  up  efforts  to 
strengthen  and  revitalize  the  Council’s  role  and  thus 
enable it to deal effectively with those challenges. The 
Council  must  bolster  representation  and  enhance 
transparency  in  order  to  strengthen  both  its  neutrality 
and credibility. 
Mrs.  DiCarlo  (United  States  of  America):  The 

United  States  warmly  welcomes  the  reappointment  of 
Ambassador Tanin  to  chair  the  forthcoming  rounds  of 
intergovernmental  negotiations  on  Security  Council 
reform, and we thank him for his efforts to guide these 
negotiations forward.  

to 
Ambassador Tanin as we head into the eighth round of 
negotiations,  which  we  hope  Member  States  will 
approach with flexibility and patience. We believe that 
intergovernmental 
the  most 
transparent and inclusive forum for these discussions to 
produce  an  outcome  that  enjoys  broad  consensus. 
While  genuine  disagreements  remain,  we  hope  that 
these 
the 
membership of the United Nations together.  

The  United  States  believes  that  the  Security 
Council  should  reflect  the  world  of  the  twenty-first 
century. We support expansion of the Council in a way 
that  will  diminish  neither  its  effectiveness  nor  its 
efficiency.  Therefore,  my  delegation  will  continue  to 
make  a  serious,  deliberate  effort,  working  with  other 
Member  States,  to  enhance  the  Council’s  ability  to 
carry  out 
the 
challenges of this century.  

issues related to Council reform.  
The  United  States  is  open,  in  principle,  to  a 

modest 
and 
non-permanent members. We strongly believe that any 
consideration  of  an  expansion  of  permanent  members 
must be country-specific in nature. In assessing which 
countries  merit  permanent  membership,  the  United 
States will take into account the ability of countries to 
contribute  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and  security  and  to  other  purposes  of  the  United 
Nations.  

We  support  a  Security  Council  membership  that 
upholds human rights, democracy and the rule of law at 
Allow  me  to  highlight  our  position  on  the  key 
its  mandate  and  effectively  meet 
permanent 
to  bring 
expansion 
of 
both 
22 

11-58384 
to 
the 
(spoke 
itself  with 
that  makes 
The  United  States  is  not  open  to  an  enlargement 


significant 
home  and  abroad  and 
contributions 
implementation  of  Council 
decisions, especially through their enforcement, as well 
as through financial, personnel and political support.  

of the Council that changes the current veto structure. 
We  remain  committed  to  a  serious,  deliberate 

effort,  working  with  other  Member  States,  to  find  a 
way  forward  that  both  adapts  the  Council  to  current 
global realities and enhances its ability to carry out its 
mandate  effectively  and  to  meet  the  challenges  of  the 
century. 
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

in  Spanish):  The  Bolivarian 
Venezuela) 
the 
Republic  of  Venezuela  associates 
statement  made  by  the  representative  of  Egypt  on 
behalf of the Movement of Non-Aligned Countries.  

We wish to acknowledge here the complex work 
carried  out  by  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin,  Permanent 
Representative of Afghanistan, and his efforts to move 
forward  in  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on  the 
question of equitable representation on and increase in 
the  membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  related 
matters.  We  also  welcome  the  statement  made  by  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Jamaica,  Mr.  Raymond 
Wolfe,  who  spoke  on  behalf  of  the  countries  that 
sponsored draft resolution A/61/L.69/Rev.1. 
Although  the  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela 

has  already,  on  various  occasions,  presented 
its 
position  on  the  subject  we  are  discussing  today,  we 
would like to reiterate a few points.  

We support the enlargement of the permanent and 
non-permanent  member  categories  of  the  Security 
Council in order to ensure the inclusion of developing 
countries  from  the  regions  of  Africa,  Asia,  and  Latin 
America  and 
the  Caribbean.  A  Security  Council 
enlarged  on  the  basis  of  an  acceptable  numerical 
formula  could  comprise  25  or  26  members.  It  would 
give  greater  representative  balance  to  the  body  by 
incorporating  the  various  geographic,  political  and 
cultural realities from the developing world.  
The  peoples  and  countries  of  Africa,  Latin 

America  and  the  Caribbean,  and  Asia  have  been 
deprived for more than 60 years of the right to exercise 
that  responsibility.  We  must  therefore  heed  their 
recurrent pleas for the present imbalance or asymmetry 
within the Council to be corrected. 
A/66/PV.51
to 
its 
its  use,  with  a  view 

With  respect  to  the  decision-making  mechanism, 
Venezuela  believes  that  the  veto  is  inseparably  linked 
to  the  question  of  the  enlargement  of  the  Security 
Council.  From  that  point  of  view,  the  Bolivarian 
Government  believes  that  the  use  of  the  veto  is  an 
anachronistic and antidemocratic mechanism that goes 
against  the  principle  of  sovereign  equality  among 
States,  as  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations. Along those lines, the Bolivarian Republic of 
Venezuela advocates the elimination of the veto or the 
limitation  of 
total 
elimination.  

With  respect  to  the  working  methods  of  the 
Security  Council,  we  acknowledge  that  we  have  seen, 
in  recent  years,  some  limited  progress.  However,  the 
steps forward are still insufficient because we have not 
duly  addressed  the  pleas  for  greater  openness  and 
greater transparency in the way the Council operates.  

Bearing in mind that peace is a matter of concern 
to all countries, Venezuela expresses its rejection of the 
procedure  that  people  have  tried  to  apply  in  the 
Security Council, namely, to hold closed meetings and 
convert  informal  sessions  into  a  rule.  That  type  of 
action  prevents  the  participation  of  the  majority  of 
Member States. Those meetings must be an exception, 
as  stipulated  in  article  48  of  the  provisional  rules  of 
procedure.  

In order to maintain the spirit of transparency, the 
Security Council must hold frequent consultations with 
the  countries  affected  by  its  decisions.  Countries  that 
are not members of that organ should be invited to take 
part  in  informal  consultations,  using  a  procedure 
similar  to  the  one  stipulated  in Articles  31  and  32  of 
the Charter.  
An  overwhelming  majority  of  countries  would 

like to see Security Council reform that would convert 
it into a democratic body with greater accountability, a 
body  that  reflects  the  sovereign  equality  of  States  in 
the  way  it  operates.  If  we  do  not  comply  with  those 
requirements, 
the  Security  Council  will  not  be 
transparent  or  legitimate,  nor  can  it  be  considered  a 
body  that  is  representative  of  the  community  of 
nations. 

Our  delegation  has  participated  constructively  in 
the Security Council reform process, and we have been 
able  to  observe  that  the  call  to  remedy  the  absence  of 
developing countries among the permanent members of 
the Council is practically universal.  
11-58384 

23 
in  order 
to  move 

that  despite 
A/66/PV.51 


The  number  and  distribution  of  permanent  seats 
by  regional  groups  that  the  majority  supports  is  about 
two seats for Africa, one or two for Latin America and 
the  Caribbean,  and  two  for  Asia.  It  is  also  clear  that 
there is majority support for the expansion of both the 
permanent and the non-permanent member categories. 

There is also a consensus on the need to alter the 
Security Council’s working methods so as to make its 
action  more  transparent.  We  have  to  acknowledge, 
however, 
the  commitment  of  many 
Member  States  or  groups  of  Member  States,  which 
have  submitted  proposals 
the 
intergovernmental  negotiations  forward,  the  process 
has  been  on  hold  since  the  beginning  of  the  seventh 
informal  round.  Given  that  situation,  we  have  to  look 
carefully  at  positions  that  unquestionably  reflect  the 
opinions  of  the  majority  and  we  have  to  agree  on  a 
strategy that would allow us to move forward.  

The Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela hopes that 
Security  Council  reform  will  not  continue  to  be 
postponed.  

I would like to conclude by pointing out that the 
Venezuelan  delegation  declares  its  firm  intention  to 
continue to play an active role in the negotiations with 
a  view  to  achieving  a  result  that  would  thoroughly 
reflect  the  positions  of  the  majority  of  the  States 
Members of the United Nations.  
Mr.  Wenaweser  (Liechtenstein):  My  delegation 

associates  itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative  of  Singapore,  who  spoke  on  behalf  of 
the  group  of  five  small  nations  (S-5)  earlier  this 
afternoon. 

We  are  entering  the  eighteenth  year  of  our 
collective effort to reform the Security Council. Much 
has  happened  during 
those  years.  Significant 
geopolitical  changes  have  taken  place,  with  some  still 
under way. None of that, however, seems to affect our 
inability to move this discussion forward, at least in the 
area of enlargement.  

The President of the General Assembly at its last 
session took an approach to the topic that was slightly 
different from that of most of his predecessors when he 
put together a small informal group of ambassadors to 
explore  ways  to  move  this  agenda  forward.  It  was  a 
worthwhile  effort,  though  it  yielded  much  the  same 
result. One must therefore wonder what to expect from 
this session and whether there are any avenues left for 
24 

result 
us  to  explore.  We  express  our  continued  support  for 
Ambassador Tanin and welcome any initiative that has 
the potential to lead us out of the ongoing impasse. 

If  the  Council’s  composition  was  outdated  and  a 
poor reflection of geopolitical realities in 1993, that is 
obviously  even  more  the  case  today.  But  it  is  hard  to 
argue  that  there  is  stronger  momentum  for  reform 
today  than  there  was  back  then.  In  some  ways,  the 
opposite  may  even  be  the  case,  despite  all  the 
unsuccessful  attempts  of  the  past  few  years  and  after 
all this time of circular discussions.  

We know the talks that we are engaged in are not 
really  negotiations,  despite  the  fact  that  we  have 
decided  to  call  them  just  that.  We  are  now  facing  the 
real  risk  of  the  process  being  taken  outside  of  the 
Assembly,  with  movement  and  progress  being  sought 
elsewhere,  which  could 
in  a  politically 
dangerous  showdown  in  the  Assembly  and  which 
would  certainly  undermine  its  authority,  as  it  is  often 
criticized for its inability to take decisions on essential 
issues.  That  would  be  all  the  more  deplorable  as  the 
reform  of  the  Council  falls  squarely  and  exclusively 
within its competence. 

As  is  well  known,  Liechtenstein  has  for  some 
years now advocated an enlargement model that could 
represent a compromise by creating a new category of 
seats.  Six  members  would  be  allowed  to  serve  for  a 
much longer term than the two years currently foreseen 
for  elected  members  under  the  Charter  —  perhaps  as 
many  as  10  —  and  they  would  also  be  immediately 
eligible  for  re-election.  This  new  distribution  of  seats 
could  lead  to  some  States  serving  permanently  on  the 
Council,  without,  of  course,  the  privileges  of  the 
current permanent members. But it could also lead to a 
system of rotation among a number of powerful States 
that  could  divide  these  new  seats  among  themselves, 
with  the  support  and  consent  of  their  respective 
regions. It would both safeguard the interests of small 
States and avoid the difficulties that would come with 
the  enlargement  of 
the  category  of  permanent 
members,  which  is  the  core  of  the  conundrum  of 
Security Council reform. 

Enlargement  is  not  the  only  and  perhaps  not  the 
most important aspect of reform. The way in which the 
Council carries out its tasks also needs to be addressed, 
as  well  as  the  “corporate  culture”  governing  its 
activities,  which  the  Council,  in  accordance  with  the 
Charter, is carrying out on behalf of all Member States. 
11-58384 


This is all the more important because many of us have 
never  served  on  the  Council,  and  many  of  us  will 
always  have  great  difficulty  in  getting  an  opportunity 
to  do  so.  Furthermore,  the  ever  more  far-reaching 
decisions  of  the  Council  can  be  effective  only  if  they 
find broad political support among the membership and 
are  matched  by  a  strong  political  will  to  implement 
them.  The  S-5,  of  which  we  are  a  proud  member, 
therefore  views  real  progress  in  the  area  of  working 
methods  as  a  means  of  improving  the  effectiveness  of 
the  Council.  It  is  certain  that  the  discussions  on 
Security  Council 
reform  have  created  positive 
momentum  in  this  respect.  It  can  even  be  argued  that 
the only tangible, if indirect, results of past years have 
been  in  the  area  of  working  methods.  That  said,  the 
measures  decided  on  by  the  Council  itself  as  part  of 
this  process  are  not  sufficient;  more  importantly,  their 
implementation  has  been  uneven,  inconsistent  and  at 
times  arbitrary.  It  is  thus  essential  that  our  efforts  to 
improve its working methods continue. 

The issue of working methods is an indispensable 
part  of  the  comprehensive  project  to  reform  the 
Security  Council.  But  it  also  must  be  pursued  on  its 
own  merits, 
the 
continued absence, of any progress in the enlargement 
of the Council. By the same token, no one would argue 
that  the  Council  cannot  be  enlarged  in  the  absence  of 
an agreement on how to improve its working methods. 
We  as  the  S-5  have  therefore  circulated  a  new  draft 
resolution  for  consideration  by  the  members  of  the 
Assembly,  and  we 
to  a  continued 
dialogue  with  all  States  on  how  to  further  pursue  our 
initiative. The text does not aim to offer a complete set 
of measures necessary to bring about the improvements 
from  which  the  Council  would  benefit.  Rather,  it 
addresses  some  of  the  main  political  challenges, 
including  the  use  of  the  veto,  and  provides  for  an 
ongoing  dialogue  between  the  Assembly  and  the 
Council  on  the  application  of  such  measures.  This 
would  also  be  very  helpful  in  launching  a  genuine 
dialogue  between  the  two  bodies,  which  is  foreseen 
under  the  Charter  but  does  not  currently  exist  in  our 
practice. 
Mr. Jerandi (Tunisia) (spoke in French): I should 

like at the outset to pay tribute to President Al-Nasser’s 
predecessor,  the  President  of  the  General Assembly  at 
its  sixty-fifth  session,  and  to  his  facilitators  for  their 
contribution to the issue that we are discussing today. 
irrespective,  and  particularly 
look  forward 
in 
A/66/PV.51
I  should 
like  also 
As we await the resumption of the negotiations, I 

My delegation associates itself with the statement 
made  earlier  by  the  representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf 
of the Non-Aligned Movement. 

In  that  context,  my  delegation  welcomes  the 
outcome  of  the  new  stage  of  the  intergovernmental 
negotiation process, which is based on the proposals of 
Member  States  on 
the  question  of  equitable 
representation on and an increase in the membership of 
the  Security  Council,  in  an  open,  inclusive  and 
transparent manner, aimed at identifying a solution that 
would  garner  the  political  support  of  the  broadest 
possible number of Member States. 

to  express  my  sincere 
appreciation to the Ambassador of Afghanistan for the 
way  in  which  he  conducted  the  intergovernmental 
negotiations  on  Security  Council  reform.  I  wish  to 
assure him of our full cooperation in this process. 

wish to make several comments.  

The  Security  Council  must  reflect  the  political 
and  economic  realities  of  today’s  world.  It  must  be 
given  the  legitimacy  needed  to  act  on  behalf  of  the 
international  community  in  discharging  the  mandate 
that devolves upon it in accordance with the Charter of 
the United Nations. 

Likewise,  my  delegation  is  of  the  view  that  the 
ultimate  aim  of  any  Security  Council  reform  effort 
must  be  the  strengthening  of  equitable  representation 
within  that  body  as  well  as  of  its  credibility  and 
effectiveness.  The  Council  must 
no 
circumstances  become  a  private  club  of  countries  that 
are endowed with special privileges or be perceived as 
such. That would pose a real danger with respect to its 
resolutions  and  their  effectiveness,  as  well  as  its 
legitimacy  in  dealing  with  issues  as  sensitive  as  those 
relating to international peace and security. 

At  a  time  when  the  world  is  changing  radically 
and  undergoing  major  geostrategic  changes,  and  at  a 
time when the Arab Spring, which began in Tunisia, is 
most  probably  one  of 
the  most  visible  current 
manifestations of that change, the permanent members 
of  the  Security  Council  themselves  recognize  the 
imperative  need  for  an  adaptation  of  international 
relations and the dynamics governing them. Given that 
the Council, as the organ that is ultimately responsible 
for the crucial task of the maintenance of international 
peace and security, is at the heart of those dynamics, it 
under 
11-58384 

25 
in  an  objective, 
These  aims  can  be  achieved  only 
A/66/PV.51 

must  not  be  spared  such  adjustment  and  adaptation  to 
the current regional and international realities. 

The realities that obtained in the 1940s, when the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  was  adopted,  no  longer 
prevail;  they  have  mutated,  and  often  new  realities 
have come into play without the Council’s changing its 
composition or its working methods. Council reform is 
therefore  a  necessity  and  not  a  luxury.  The  future  of 
that  executive  organ  depends  upon  it,  as  does  its 
legitimacy and the legitimacy of the Organization as a 
whole.  

Such reform  must be comprehensive, transparent 
and  balanced. The  agenda  of  the  Council  must  reflect 
interests  of  both  developed  and 
the  needs  and 
developing  countries 
rational, 
non-selective and non-arbitrary manner. All substantive 
issues  must  be  addressed,  including  its  composition, 
regional  representation,  agenda,  working  methods  and 
decision-making  process,  including  the  right  of  veto, 
and  we  must  secure  the  most  broad-based  political 
consensus possible among Member States.  
through 

favour  of  developing 
expansion,  particularly 
countries.  Likewise,  the  makeup  of  a  restructured 
Security Council must reflect all the sensibilities of the 
international community. 
In  that  context,  Tunisia  continues  to  strongly 

support the position of the African Union, as reflected 
in  the  Ezulwini  Consensus  on  the  issue  of  Security 
Council  reform  and  the  Sirte  Declaration.  We  believe 
that it is time to redress the current situation whereby 
the African continent remains deprived of a permanent 
seat on the Security Council. 

that  gives 
developing countries in general and Africa in particular 
their rightful place in the Security Council.  

Tunisia, which has since the 1960s participated in 
several  peacekeeping  operations  and  has  helped, 
through  diplomatic  channels  or  using  its  forces,  to 
resolve  conflicts,  and  which  has  recently  suffered  the 
fallout  of  conflict 
in  a  neighbouring  country, 
understands  all  too  well  the  challenges  posed  by  war 
and hotbeds of tension.  

My  country  remains  convinced  that  a  Security 
Council with such a limited membership and such rigid 
mechanisms  is  not  in  a  position  to  meet  either  the 
current need to provide rapid, effective and appropriate 
support  any 
We  will 
solution 
in 

intervention in connection with the growing number of 
conflicts, or the aspirations of the peoples of the world, 
who  see  the  United  Nations  and  its  executive  body  as 
their only champion when all hope has been lost. 

In  conclusion,  we  believe  that  for  the  Security 
Council  to  continue  to  enjoy  the  trust  of  States  and 
world  public  opinion,  it  must  demonstrate  that  it  can 
tackle  the  most  difficult  issues  effectively,  while 
becoming  more  representative  of  the  international 
community  as  a  whole  and  of  the  realities  of  today’s 
world.  
Mr.  León  González  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Cuba  associates  itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the 
Non-Aligned  Movement.  We  wish  to  reiterate  our 
support for the work of Ambassador Zahir Tanin, Chair 
of  the  negotiations  on  the  question  of  equitable 
representation  and  increase  in  the  membership  of  the 
Security  Council  and  other  matters  related  to  the 
Council.  

With  regard  to  agenda  item  30,  “Report  of  the 
Security  Council”,  Cuba  welcomes  the  efforts  to 
improve  the  quality  of  the  Council’s  annual  report 
(A/66/2).  However,  the  report  essentially  remains  a 
descriptive document, lacking the analytical focus that 
we, as Member States, need in order to assess the work 
of  that  organ. We  emphasize  the  need  for  the  Council 
to present to the General Assembly the special reports 
stipulated by the Charter in Articles 15 and 24. 

the 
Council to give due account of its work to the General 
Assembly.  In  conformity  with  the  Charter,  we  have 
entrusted  that  organ  of  very  limited  membership  with 
the  primary  responsibility  to  act  on  our  behalf  to 
maintain international peace and security.  

With regard to agenda item 122, we reiterate the 
need  for  an  urgent  and  far-reaching  reform  of  the 
Security  Council.  There  cannot  be  true  reform  of  the 
United Nations without reform of the Security Council. 
That reform cannot continuously be postponed nor can 
it  continue  to  ignore  the  demands  of  the  majority  of 
Member  States.  The  international  community  needs  a 
Security  Council 
representative, 
democratic  and  transparent,  in  accordance  with  the 
minimum  standards  of  the  rule  of  law  and  in  order  to 
adequately tackle global challenges. 
Cuba  underscores 
responsibility  of 
is  more 
that 
the 
26 

11-58384 
is  no 



Cuba  supports  an  immediate  enlargement  of  the 
Security  Council,  in  both  the  permanent  and  the 
non-permanent categories. Increasing only the number 
of  non-permanent  seats  would  further  widen  the  huge 
gap 
that  already  exists  between  permanent  and 
non-permanent members. Developing countries should 
have greater representation and participation within the 
Council,  in  particular,  in  the  category  of  permanent 
membership.  There 
justification  for  entire 
regions,  such  as  Africa  and  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean, to lack permanent representation. Suffice it 
to  say  that  more  than  half  of  the  Council’s  agenda 
items relate to Africa, and it is not hard to understand 
the  justice  of  that  continent’s  demands,  which  enjoys 
our full support. 
Cuba does not support any kind of discrimination 

among  sovereign  States.  That  is  why  we  believe  that 
the new permanent members must have the same rights 
and  obligations  as  the  current  ones. The  entry  of  new 
permanent members not having the right of veto would 
be  equivalent  to  creating  a  new  category  of  Security 
Council members, which Cuba does not support. There 
is no justification for developing countries that enter as 
new permanent members to have a lesser status that the 
current  permanent  members.  Cuba’s  position  on  the 
veto  has  been  and  remains  very  clear.  The  veto  is  an 
anachronistic  and  antidemocratic  privilege,  which  is 
why it must be eliminated as soon as possible.  
A/66/PV.51

With  regard  to  the  size  of  the  Security  Council, 
Cuba believes that an enlarged Council should have no 
more than 26 members. With that number, the ratio of 
new Council members to the membership of the United 
Nations would be similar to the ratio at the time of the 
Organization’s establishment.  

The reform of the Security Council must include 
a  thorough  reform  of  its  working  methods.  Although 
some  modest  changes  have  been  introduced  in  recent 
years,  most  of  them  have  been  more  formal  than 
substantive.  The  truth  is  that,  at  present,  the  Security 
Council is not transparent, democratic or efficient.  

We advocate a Security Council in which closed-
door  consultations  are  the  exception.  We  aspire  to  a 
Council that addresses only matters under its remit and 
does not encroach on those of other bodies. We want a 
Council  that  truly  takes  into  account  the  views  of  the 
Organization’s  members  before  making  decisions  and 
that  ensures  non-member  States  of  that  body  genuine 
access. 

In short, we advocate a democratic, participatory 
and  transparent  Security  Council  that  has  the  ability 
and  true  legitimacy  to  mobilize  the  international 
community as it addresses current global challenges to 
international peace and security. 

  The meeting rose at 6 p.m. 
11-58384 

27 
