
A/66/PV.28
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

28th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 27 September 2011, 9 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 









In the absence of the President, Mr. Meetarbhan 
(Mauritius), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 9.10 a.m. 
in 
Mr.  Ould  Hamady  (Mauritania)  (spoke 
its  accession 
the  United  Nations  and  for 
Agenda item 8 (continued)
  General debate 

The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Hamady  Ould  Hamady,  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  and  Cooperation  of 
the  Islamic 
Republic of Mauritania. 
in 

Arabic):  It  is  my  honour  and  pleasure  at  the  outset  of 
this  brief  statement  to  welcome  and  congratulate  the 
to 
Republic  of  South  Sudan  upon 
membership 
its 
participation  for  the  first  time  in  the  work  of  the 
General Assembly. 

to  warmly  congratulate 
Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session. 
Allow  me  to  express  our  full  confidence  in  him  as  he 
undertakes 
to 
strengthen  the  progress  achieved  to  date  in  terms  of 
international  peace  and  security,  taking  into  account 
the  need  to  preserve  the  well-being,  stability  and 
progress of our world. I pay tribute to the effectiveness 
of  Qatari  diplomacy  and 
in 
strengthening international peace and security.  
the  exceptional  efforts 
I  am  also  happy 
important 
required 
role 
its 
to  head 
strengthening 
reappointment 

I also pay tribute to the valuable efforts made by 
Mr.  Al-Nasser’s  predecessor,  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss,  who 
upheld  the  principles  of  dialogue  and  consultation  in 
order to reach the best solutions on international issues. 
I  also  warmly  congratulate  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon  on  his 
the 
Organization and wish him full success. I commend his 
persistent  Herculean  efforts  to  resolve  many  issues, 
including 
international  peace  and 
security, achieving the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs), combating climate change and mitigating the 
threats of famine and endemic disease, as well as all of 
the challenges that hinder the well-being of humanity. 

The  sixty-sixth  session  of  the  General Assembly 
is  taking  place  at  a  sensitive  political  juncture  in  our 
region. The  popular  uprisings  in  many Arab  countries 
have  led  to  revolutions  calling  for  democracy,  justice, 
freedom and decent living conditions. My country was 
at 
these  demands  and 
aspirations.  Over 
the  past  few  years,  we  have 
experienced  radical  change  in  the  form  of  a  peaceful 
and  flexible  transition  from  a  totalitarian  regime  that 
had  suppressed  freedoms  and  emptied  the  public 
coffers to a democratic system and credible institutions 
that  have  consolidated  the  rule  of  law  and  guaranteed 
individual and collective freedoms and the rights of all 
sectors of Mauritanian society, based on justice and the 
rule of law. 

Those measures have included the organization of 
free,  fair  and  transparent  presidential  elections  that 
were  monitored  by  international  observers  and  even 
endorsed  by  their  opponents.  Our  country  has  also 
the  forefront  of  meeting 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-51670 (E) 
*1151670* 

those 
living 
remarkable 
independent 
levels  of  growth 
A/66/PV.28 

begun enjoying a sincere political openness at all levels 
of  society.  A  few  days  ago,  we  launched  a  genuine 
national political dialogue  open to all of the country’s 
political parties. In addition, media airwaves have been 
freed  and  licences  issued  to  10  radio  and  television 
stations to begin broadcasting in the near future. 

In  the  context  of  good  governance,  my  country 
has enshrined transparency in its administration and its 
judiciary.  We  have 
strengthened  and 
achieved 
through 
ambitious  programmes  to  improve  our  population’s 
standard  of  living.  These  programmes  focus  first  and 
foremost  on  the  most  vulnerable  sectors  of  society  — 
low-income  citizens  and 
in  poor 
neighbourhoods  and  isolated  rural  areas  —  allowing 
my country to achieve a stable domestic situation that 
will  in  turn  foster  efforts  in  our  young,  effective 
diplomacy.  

We are a member of the African Union Peace and 
Security  Council  and  chair 
the  Good  Offices 
Commission,  established  to  bring  together  opposition 
parties  in  Libya  and  Côte  d’Ivoire.  We  are  fully 
convinced  that  dialogue  and  mediation  are  the  best 
ways 
to  resolve  conflict  and  address  crises,  as 
indicated  in  the  theme  of  the  general  debate  of  this 
sixty-sixth session. 

of  His  Excellency 
Mr. Mohamed  Ould Abdel Aziz  as  President,  we  have 
endeavoured to strengthen our presence within regional 
and  international  organizations,  including  the  United 
Nations  and  its  various  specialized  bodies,  the  Arab 
Maghreb Union, the League of Arab States, the African 
Union,  the  Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation  and 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  to  name  a  few.  We  have 
also  joined  regional  African  and  Caribbean  groups  to 
show  support  for  their  systems  and  decisions  and  as 
part  of  our  strategy  to  broaden  our  principled  foreign 
policy. 

In  that  context,  we  reiterate  our  support  for 
efforts  to  reform  the  United  Nations  and  its  various 
bodies,  including  the  Security  Council.  We  ask  that 
Africa  be  given  permanent  representation,  as  it  is  the 
only continent that has lacked a permanent seat on the 
Security Council since the establishment of the United 
Nations.  Our  continent  has  1  billion  inhabitants  and 
hosts  more 
two-thirds  of  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  operations.  We  also  call  for  permanent 
representation  for  the  Group  of  Arab  States,  whose 
election 
Since 
the 
than 

in  order 
the  make-up  of 
the  Security  Council, 
population  makes  up  more  than  11  per  cent  of  the 
world’s inhabitants.  

Consultations  on  Security  Council  reform  have 
been  ongoing  for  many  years,  and  we  call  for 
continued  consultations 
to  achieve  a 
comprehensive  platform,  supported  unanimously  by 
Member  States,  for  reform  of  the  United  Nations  and 
its working methods and decision-making processes. In 
that regard,  my country believes that  we should begin 
with 
the 
definition  of  its  competence  and  responsibilities,  and 
institutional  relations  between  the  Council  and  the 
General Assembly in order to ensure the Organization’s 
effectiveness  and  to  fairly  and  accurately  reflect,  in  a 
balanced  manner,  the  will  of  the  entire  international 
community.  

In  that  context,  I  remind  the  Assembly  that 
Mauritania is a candidate for a non-permanent seat on 
the  Security  Council  for  the  biennium  2012-2013, 
representing  the  Group  of African  States.  Support  for 
our  candidacy  was  expressed  by  our  continental 
organization,  the  African  Union,  at  its  Addis  Ababa 
summit in January and Malabo summit in June. It also 
supports  our  conviction  and  profound  belief  in  the 
mission  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations  and  our 
sincere  will 
the 
maintenance of international peace and security, play a 
positive  role  in  the  Security  Council,  and  assume 
greater  responsibilities  in  order  to  attain  the  noble 
objectives for which this Organization was created. 

I  note  that  Mauritania  has  adopted  a  policy  of 
peaceful  coexistence  and  good-neighbourly  relations 
with  the  countries  of  its  region.  It  is  not  party  to  any 
conflict  and  enjoys  excellent  and  friendly  relations 
with all countries of the world. I take this opportunity 
to sincerely thank all of the friendly, kindred States that 
have supported our candidacy. 

We  note  with  deep  satisfaction  the  gargantuan 
efforts  made  during  the  sixty-fifth  session,  including 
the  High-level  Meeting  on  Youth  and  the  High-level 
Plenary  Meeting  on  the  MDGs  and  the  need  to 
implement them. Nevertheless, we note and deplore the 
fact that the populations of most States continue to live 
in  dire  economic  conditions  that  are  not  conducive  to 
the achievement of the MDGs.  

In that context, allow me to recall the steep rise in 
unemployment,  especially  among  young  people;  the 
increased rate of abject poverty, especially in the most 
effectively 
contribute 
to 
to 
2 

11-51670 
transfers 
We  call  on  wealthy  developed  States 


vulnerable sectors of society; the decelerated growth in 
gross domestic product; the global recession; decreased 
official  foreign  investment,  especially  in  Africa;  the 
volatility  of  basic  commodity  prices,  which  has  had 
devastating  effects  on  the  buying  power  of  large 
sectors  of  the  populations  of  developing  countries; 
reduced  net 
to  developing  countries; 
decreased  tourist  revenue;  increased  maternal  and 
newborn death rates; and the increased debt burden. 

This  latter  issue  is  already  a  terrible  economic 
burden  on  developing  countries,  and  leads  to  the 
emptying  of  public  coffers  that  are  modest  to  begin 
with,  especially  in  the  light  of  their  infrastructure  and 
public service needs. In such economic conditions, the 
economies  of  the  least  developed  countries  face  many 
enormous obstacles, making it increasingly difficult to 
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  As  we 
approach  the  deadline  for  achieving  the  MDGs,  many 
developing countries remain far from doing so.  

to 
contribute,  in  accordance  with  their  promises,  to  the 
revival  of  these  least  developed  countries  so  that  they 
can  provide  acceptable  levels  of  public  services  and 
guarantee  civil  peace,  security  and  stability,  and  to 
strengthen the social fabric of these countries, which in 
turn will contribute to international peace and security. 

another 
important public health issue. The extent of the spread 
of  these  diseases  is  truly  catastrophic,  and  mortality 
rates  are  higher  than  those  of  all  other  diseases. 
Furthermore, their effects on health and the social and 
economic fields are a further obstacle to the attainment 
of  the  MDGs,  especially  Goals  4  and  5  relative  to 
maternal  and  child  health,  which  are  closely  linked  to 
non-communicable  diseases.  This  is  especially  true 
because malnutrition in pregnancy and early childhood 
is the source of hypertension and diabetes later in life.  

This  is  why  I  note  with  satisfaction  that  my 
country  has  risen  to  the  challenge  posed  by  these 
diseases by establishing extensive health infrastructure 
and  strengthening  the  human  resources  available  to 
deal  with  such  diseases.  We  have  also  built  a 
specialized  oncology  hospital  with 
latest 
technology,  a  modern  hospital  for  cardiovascular 
disease,  a  diabetes  treatment  centre  and  over  50  dialysis 
centres.  All  of  these  have  been  established  in  record 
time, less than two years since the accession to power 
Non-communicable 
diseases 
are 
the 
A/66/PV.28
of  Mr.  Mohamed  Ould  Abdel  Aziz  following  the 
presidential elections of 18 July 2009.  

Our  country  is  closely  following  the  situation  in 
the  Western  Sahara.  We  reaffirm  our  support  for  the 
efforts  of 
the  Secretary-General  and  his  Special 
Representative  to  reach  a  comprehensive,  lasting  and 
just solution that enjoys the support of both countries, 
in  order  to  strengthen  peace  and  security  in  the  area 
and to create an Arab Maghreb that is open to progress 
and development and responds to the aspirations of its 
peoples. This is a strategic option for my country. 

I believe that the Israeli-Arab conflict is a source 
of  tension  and  a  threat  to  peace  and  security  in  a 
sensitive  and  vital  region  of  the  world.  My  country 
supports  efforts  for  peace  that  will  guarantee  the 
recovery of all the rights of the Palestinian people and 
the creation of an independent Palestinian State within 
the 4 June 1967 borders, with its capital in Jerusalem, 
coexisting  in  peace  and  security  with  the  State  of 
Israel.  

This  is  why  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Mauritania 
calls  on  the  international  community  to  recognize 
Palestine  as  an  independent  sovereign  State  and  to 
facilitate its full membership of the United Nations on 
last  week  by 
the  basis  of 
Mr. Mahmoud  Abbas,  Executive  Secretary  of 
the 
Palestine Liberation Organization and President of the 
Palestinian  Authority.  We  must  be  faithful  to  the 
historic responsibilities of the international community 
towards  Palestine;  uphold 
justice,  credibility  and 
fairness with regard to this question; and ensure respect 
for the relevant resolutions of international legitimacy. 
We  condemn  the  ongoing  blockade  of  the  Gaza  Strip 
and the acts committed by the Israeli military machine, 
killing civilians and destroying Palestinian facilities.  

regional  and 
international  efforts  to  assist  our  Libyan  brothers  and 
sisters. We seek an end to the killings and a response to 
the legitimate aspirations to reform and change of our 
kindred  people  of  Libya  in  order  to  guarantee  their 
sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity.  We  call  on  the 
international  community  to  support  the  Libyan  people 
and provide for all their needs in various areas so as to 
ensure the success of the transitional phase.  

We  also  call  on  the  international  community  to 
intensify  and  accelerate  the  international  response  to 
the  tragic  humanitarian  situation  resulting  from  the 
acute drought in the Horn of Africa. Speedy assistance 
for  concerted  Arab, 
request  made 
We  call 
the 
11-51670 

3 
that 
traffic 
peace, 

between 
development 
A/66/PV.28 

must  be  provided  to  the  hundreds  of  thousands  of 
Somalis  citizens  who  have  been  forced  to  become 
refugees  and  are  enduring  tragic  living  and  security 
conditions.  Although  our  means  are  modest,  we  have 
provided  assistance  in  the  amount  of  $1  million  to 
support  the  efforts  of  the African  Union  on  behalf  of 
the people of Somalia.  

For  many  years  now,  our  region,  the  African 
Sahel,  has  been  the  stage  for  the  expansion  of 
organized  crime  networks 
in  drugs, 
weapons,  ammunition  and  human  beings,  and  are 
responsible for illegal migration flows across the area, 
kidnappings,  abductions  and  terrorism.  They  pose  a 
real threat to the peace and stability of our region.  

We are convinced that there is a direct and close 
relationship 
and 
democracy. For this reason, we believe that peace and 
security  are  preconditions  to  achieving  development 
and  democracy  and  to  strengthening  the  rule  of  law 
institutions. We have adopted laws, prepared plans and 
taken steps to guarantee peace, security and safety for 
our  citizens  and  foreign  citizens  living  legally  in 
Mauritania.  Our  security  system  has  responded  firmly 
and  courageously  to  the  threats  of  criminal  terrorist 
groups against our security and that of our guests. We 
have  succeeded  in  guaranteeing  peace  within  our 
borders and security at border points, as attested to by 
all.  We  work  in  full  understanding  and  coordination 
with Algeria, Mali and Niger to suppress the activities 
and free movement of these criminal terrorist groups. 

The  culture  of  peace,  the  ideals  of  tolerance 
among nations and civilizations, and upholding justice 
and  law  among  peoples  are  the  best  ways  to  advance 
on  the  road  to  peace  and  security  in  our  world. 
However, when issues remain pending for years; when 
there  is  a  growing  gap  between  rich  and  poor;  when 
international  economic  institutions  are  fragile  and 
weak;  and  when  justice,  fairness  and  equality  are  so 
slow  to  be  provided,  tensions  will  increase  and 
extremism  and  terrorism  spread.  We  in  Mauritania 
reject  terrorism  in  every  form,  and  we  adhere  to  the 
peaceful principles of  Islam — principles of tolerance 
and  brotherhood  that  reject  violence  and  extremism. 
We  believe  that  the  international  community  should 
consider seriously why terrorism exists and root it out 
vigorously. 

The  international  community  must  honour  the 
commitments  it  has  made  since  the  Organization  was 
that 
the  noble  goals 
established,  but  it  can  do  so  only  if  all  the  States  and 
peoples of the world are able to benefit from available 
potential  and  resources  and  if  development  efforts  in 
developing  countries  are  supported  so  that  people  can 
live  in  dignity,  freedom  and  equality. That  is  the  only 
way  we  can  achieve 
this 
Organization set for itself when it was created. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  Her 

Excellency  Ms.  Antonella  Mularoni,  Minister  for 
Foreign and Political Affairs, Telecommunications and 
Transportation of the Republic of San Marino. 
Ms.  Mularoni  (San  Marino):  On  behalf  of  the 

Government of the Republic of San Marino, I wish to 
congratulate  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  on  his 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-sixth session. His long experience as Ambassador 
of Qatar to the United Nations and his deep knowledge 
of  this  Organization  will  be  valuable  resources  in 
helping us move ahead with the reforms needed in the 
most  important  areas  of  United  Nations  activity.  Over 
the  past  few  years,  Qatar  has  played  a  significant 
mediation  role  in  the  Arab  world.  The  delegation  of 
San Marino will cooperate fully in the work to be done. 

I  also  wish  to  sincerely  thank  the  Secretary-
General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  energy  and 
praiseworthy  efforts,  for  the  interest  he  constantly 
displays in all United Nations Member States, and for 
his  constant  and  crucial  presence  in  every  politically 
important  situation  and  emergency  worldwide.  His 
reappointment  to  a  second  term  is  important 
to 
promoting  reform  of  the  United  Nations,  guaranteeing 
the  Organization’s  full  effectiveness  and  preventing 
any action aimed at decentralizing global governance. 

I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  my  sincere 
gratitude  for  the  excellent  work  done  by  the  United 
Nations,  under  the  careful  and  effective  leadership  of 
the  Secretary-General,  in  South  Sudan.  By  putting  an 
end  to  the  violence  and  atrocities  that  have  plagued 
that part of Africa for several years, the United Nations 
action led to the Republic of South Sudan’s declaration 
of independence and its admission to our Organization 
as a new Member in July. 
On  the  occasion  of  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the 

tragic attack on the World Trade Center in New York, I 
would  like  to  stress  the  importance  of  effectively 
combating  terrorism  and  taking  action  to  prevent  the 
formation  and  development  of  terrorist  groups.  A 
4 

11-51670 
represents 


crucial  task  of  policymakers  is  to  create  conditions  in 
which terrorism cannot find a breeding ground. 

This  year’s  theme  of  the  general  debate,  “The 
role  of  mediation  in  the  settlement  of  disputes  by 
peaceful  means”,  unquestionably 
the 
purposes  of  diplomacy  and  the  fundamental  reason 
why States decided to cooperate within the framework 
of international bodies and mechanisms, headed by the 
United  Nations.  In  a  certain  sense,  it  is  also  closely 
connected to the reform process of our Organization. 
The  principle  of  the  peaceful  settlement  of 

disputes  between  States  is  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  and  in  many  General  Assembly 
resolutions,  and  the  Republic  of  San  Marino  can  only 
support  that  principle.  Indeed,  our  country  has  always 
tried  to  settle  conflicts  by  peaceful  means  and  has 
always  believed  in  the  power  of  dialogue,  democracy 
and tolerance — values on which peaceful coexistence 
among peoples is based. With a view to achieving this 
principle  in  order  to  maintain  international  peace  and 
security, the Republic of San Marino supports the role 
and authority of the General Assembly and the Security 
Council. 

This  year  we  have  witnessed  a  massive  popular 
uprising spreading across the squares of cities in North 
Africa  and  the  Middle  East.  These  are  protests  for 
democracy  and freedom,  respect for human  rights  and 
social  justice.  At  the  forefront  of  this  revolution  are 
young  people  from  the  middle  classes.  Despite  their 
education,  they  have  found  themselves  excluded  from 
the  labour  market  or  suffering  under  poor  working 
conditions. 

The  unusual  scale  of  the Arab  revolution,  which 
has  taken  the  world  by  surprise,  demonstrates  that 
major  political  and  institutional  changes  are  needed, 
because our economic and social foundations have also 
changed  as  a  result  of  globalization.  We  cannot 
consider  this  spontaneous  uprising  of  people  looking 
for  freedom,  justice  and  democracy  only  in  terms  of 
security. If the United Nations intends to play a pivotal 
role  in  managing  global  governance,  it  should  also  be 
able  to  interpret  the  need  for  such  changes  and  to 
support  them,  as  far  as  possible.  San  Marino  believes 
that the United Nations must continue to play a leading 
role  in  managing  global  governance.  The  deeply 
democratic  nature  of  our  Organization,  with 
its 
universal  participation  and  undisputed  legitimacy,  as 
well  as  the  richness  and  diversity  of  cultures  and 
A/66/PV.28
to 
respond 
traditions  that  are  represented  here,  allow  us  to  adopt 
an  approach  aimed  at  harmonizing  the  interests  of  the 
entire 
international  community  and  at  achieving 
sustainable human development. 

The  global  economic  and  financial  crisis,  the 
devastating  consequences  of  which  are  evident  to  all, 
has  unfortunately  demonstrated 
that  our  existing 
institutions  are  unable 
rapidly  and 
adequately  to  such  crises. This  has  led  to  a  growth  in 
the  influence  of  some  informal  groups,  such  as  the 
Group  of  Eight  and  the  Group  of  20  (G-20),  on  the 
management  of  global  economic  governance.  San 
Marino is grateful to those groups and for the role they 
have played.  

However,  we  believe  it  important  to  emphasize 
that in their decision-making process, which should be 
more transparent and inclusive, it is essential that they 
take into account the interests, worries and aspirations 
of  States  outside  their  groups,  particularly  developing 
countries. The  actions  of  such  informal  groups  should 
be  complementary  to  those  of  the  United  Nations, 
the  development  of  specific 
which  will  require 
mechanisms 
their  relations  with  our 
Organization.  We  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s 
participation 
the 
consultations held by the rotating presidencies with the 
United Nations. However, we stress the importance of 
transparency 
informal 
groups  and  the  United  Nations  system,  the  only 
Organization  in  a  position  to  take  decisions  whose 
legitimacy no one can challenge. 

The  Republic  of  San  Marino  is  concerned  about 
the  consequences  of  the  economic  and  financial  crisis 
and  other  crises  closely  and  inevitably  linked  to  it. 
Unemployment  is  a  very  serious  problem  that  faces 
every  country  without  distinction.  Furthermore,  in 
many  States  the  youth  unemployment  rate  is  twice  as 
high  as  that  for  adults.  Long-term  unemployment  has 
also  risen  in  the  past  few  years.  We  believe  that  the 
United Nations should pay special attention to the issue 
of unemployment.  

Unfortunately,  the  negative  effects  of  the  global 
economic  and  financial  crisis  are  still  visible  today. 
Although  the  international  economy  experienced  a 
modest  recovery  last  year,  we  have  not  yet  emerged 
from  the  2008  crisis.  And  beyond  the  problem  of 
unemployment,  we  are  now  confronting  a  global 
sovereign debt crisis. 
in  relations  between 
the  G-20  meetings 
to  regulate 
in 
and 
these 
11-51670 

5 

to  guarantee 
the  full  effectiveness  of 
A/66/PV.28 


Is  there  a  good  recipe  for  recovery  from  the 
crisis?  Is  a  rigorous  economic  policy  sufficient?  Do 
innovative  measures  for  relaunching 
the  world’s 
economy  exist?  Can  these  measures  be  shared,  or  are 
we facing a deep systemic crisis requiring an in-depth 
analysis  of  the  way  our  societies  function  and  a 
rethinking of current business models? I believe that if 
the  United  Nations  focused  on  these  important  issues, 
its  leading  role  in  global  governance  could  not  be 
questioned by anyone. 

The destinies of our peoples are linked to global 
threats in an increasingly direct way. Today, the threats 
of  climate  change  and  biodiversity  loss,  economic, 
financial and  employment  crises,  food security, public 
health,  disarmament  and 
the  non-proliferation  of 
weapons and the fight against terrorism are recognized 
as  being  interdependent.  On  that  basis,  we  should 
create  a  new  form  of  international  cooperation  and 
multilateralism  so  as  to  coordinate  our  policies  at  the 
international,  national  and  regional  levels.  We  have  a 
duty 
the 
Organization’s activities with a view to preserving and 
strengthening its essential value as a point of reference 
for the international community. 

The  interdependence  of  such  threats  is  more 
evident  now  than  ever  before.  That  is  the  case,  for 
example,  of  the  impact  of  climate  change  on  world 
food  security,  which  in  turn  poses  a  threat  to  security 
and  peace,  not  only  in  Africa,  where  perhaps  this 
relationship  can  more  easily  be  observed,  but 
throughout  the  world.  Food  insecurity  fuels  violent 
social conflicts. Climate change leads to a reduction in 
global  food  production,  the  most  damaging  effects  of 
which are experienced in Africa and Asia. 

The  populations  of  countries  in  a  post-conflict 
situation,  countries  that  depend  more  directly  on 
agriculture  or  the  poorest  developing  countries  will 
have more difficulties than others in coping with rising 
food prices due to droughts or other disasters caused by 
climate  change.  Our  country 
the 
humanitarian  emergency  in  the  Horn  of  Africa  with 
great  concern.  The  populations  of  Somalia,  Kenya, 
Ethiopia  and  Djibouti  are  the  victims  of  a  severe 
drought.  This  is  a  humanitarian  emergency  affecting 
over  12  million  people,  including  many  women  and 
children. 

The  Republic  of  San  Marino  is  grateful  to  the 
Secretary-General for his  rapid and significant actions 
is 
following 
for 
their 
in  benefit  of  the  affected  populations.  We  also  thank 
the Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs 
and  the  Central  Emergency  Response  Fund  for  their 
immediate  response  and  their  substantial  contribution 
to resolving the humanitarian emergency in the Horn of 
Africa,  and  Member  States 
financial 
commitments. 

Another  but  no  less  important  effect  of  climate 
change  is  sea-level  rise,  which  has  an  impact  on  the 
very  existence  of  many  Member  States.  This  problem 
affects  not  only  small  islands,  but  also  large  islands 
and countries with extensive coastlines. Therefore, this 
phenomenon  affects  a  significant  number  of  United 
Nations Member States. 

The  implications,  interdependence  and  effects  of 
serious  global  threats  on  populations  and  world  peace 
and  security  are  increasingly  evident.  With  a  view  to 
addressing  such  challenges,  we  need  a  strong  United 
Nations, as well as effective and coordinated action in 
our  economic,  environmental  and  food  policies  at  all 
levels  —  both  globally  and  regionally.  These  policies 
should  be  designed  to  achieve  sustainable,  inclusive 
and equitable economic growth.  

As  I  mentioned  earlier,  this  year’s  theme  is 
inevitably  linked  to  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations. 
That  reform  will  be  fundamental  to  future  world 
stability  and  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and security. It must remain the target of all our efforts.  

The  Republic  of  San  Marino  has  been  following 
with interest the Security Council reform process since 
1994. In that regard, it is grateful to Ambassador Tanin 
for  the  wisdom  and  impartiality  with  which  he  has 
presided  over  the  intergovernmental  negotiations  on 
Security  Council  reform  and  for  his  tireless  efforts  to 
reach the broadest possible political agreement. We are 
convinced  that  intergovernmental  negotiations  are  the 
right  framework  within  which  to  find  a  solution  that 
reflects the interests and positions of all Members. It is 
essential to move beyond respective initial positions in 
order to negotiate the broadest possible agreement. The 
Republic  San  Marino  believes  that  the  five  key  issues 
of reform — categories of membership, the question of 
the  veto,  regional  representation,  the  size  of  an 
enlarged  Council  and  its  working  methods,  and  its 
relationship with the General Assembly — are closely 
interrelated and need to be considered as a whole.  
Another  major  reform  in  the  United  Nations  to 

which  our  country  attaches  great  importance  is  the 
6 

11-51670 
as 
the  work  of 
the  General  Assembly 


revitalization  process  of  the  General  Assembly.  The 
Republic  of  San  Marino  supports  this  reform  process 
and, in that regard, wishes to thank Lithuania and Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  for  having  co-chaired  the 
Ad  Hoc  Working  Group  on  the  Revitalization  of  the 
General Assembly this year. 

The  revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly  is  a 
politically  necessary  reform  and,  at  the  same  time, 
essential  to  the  future  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is  a 
reform  that  should  involve  all  States  in  reaching  an 
agreement  based,  again,  on  the  broadest  possible 
political consensus and aimed at reaffirming the central 
role  of 
the  most 
representative  body  of  the  United  Nations,  as  well  as 
the role and leadership of its President. Reform should 
make 
the  General  Assembly  more 
effective,  prevent  duplication  of  its  activities,  and 
improve  its  relations  with  the  other  United  Nations 
bodies.  Nevertheless,  the  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly  should  not  concern  these  aspects  alone, 
however important they may be. The Assembly should 
become  a  key  forum  where  solutions  can  be  found  to 
the  problems  posed  by 
that 
increasingly unite the destinies of our peoples. 
There  are  many  issues  and  themes  on  which  the 

United  Nations  focuses 
is 
impossible  to  address  all  of  them.  Therefore,  I  will 
highlight  some  aspects  that  are  perhaps  lesser  known, 
but no less important. 

About  15  per  cent  of  the  world’s  population  has 
some kind of disability, while between 2 to 4 per cent 
suffers  from  severe  disabilities.  Since  the  adoption  in 
2006 of the Convention on the Rights of Persons with 
Disabilities,  we  have  witnessed  a  clear  affirmation  of 
the  rights  of  the  disabled.  Today,  the  Convention  has 
been  ratified  by  over  100  countries.  The  international 
community has taken important steps forward in terms 
of  equality 
towards 
disabled  people,  as  well  as  their  full  inclusion  and 
participation in the social, political and cultural life of 
societies. However, much  remains to be done in order 
to 
the 
establishment of legislative frameworks and policies at 
the national and international levels. 

The  international  community  should  also  deal 
with  the  strong  relationship  between  disability  and 
poverty,  and  include  that  issue  in  future  political 
strategies. A similar approach is fundamental in efforts 
for  and  non-discrimination 
its  attention,  and 
the  Convention, 
the  global 
threats 
implement 
including 
A/66/PV.28
to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  At 
present, 80 per cent of persons with disabilities live in 
developing  countries  and  most  live  below  the  poverty 
line.  In  addition,  many  of  the  children  who  do  not 
attend  school  have  some  kind  of  disability. Therefore, 
it  is  clear  that  targeted  strategies  and  policies  taking 
into  due  account 
the  situation  of  children  with 
disabilities  should  be  adopted  to  achieve  the  Goal  of 
universal primary education.  

More than 8 million children under five years of 
age  and  350,000  mothers  die  every  year.  Today, 
67 million  children  are  still  out  of  school,  and 
195 million  children  under  five  years  of  age  suffer 
from  chronic  malnutrition,  which  remains  the  major 
cause  of  childhood  death.  Every  day,  more  than 
1,000 babies  are  born  with  HIV  and  about  5  million 
young  people  between  15  and  24  years  of  age  are 
living with this virus. 

Children  continue  to  be  the  most  vulnerable  to 
and most affected by violence, abuse and exploitation. 
Currently,  more  than  200  million  children,  especially 
those  in  developing  countries,  do  not  have  a  birth 
certificate.  Sadly,  most  can  barely  access  basic 
services,  such  as  health  care  and  education,  or  enjoy 
their  rights.  Also,  it  is  difficult  to  protect  them.  This 
threatens  to  seriously  undermine  the  achievement  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  Republic  of 
San  Marino  joins  the  international  community  in 
supporting  resolution  65/1,  entitled  “Keeping 
the 
promise: 
the  Millennium 
to 
Development Goals”.  

Gender  equality  is  rightly  placed  high  on  the 
agenda  of  the  United  Nations.  In  many  countries, 
maternal mortality figures are still worrying, especially 
in  the  poorest  areas  of  the  world.  Furthermore,  young 
people, girls and women are the most affected by HIV. 
Unfortunately, 
in  women  and  children 
remains  a  serious  problem. Women  and  girls  continue 
to  be  subjected  to  humiliating  practices,  such  as  the 
payment of the bride price, child marriage, kidnapping 
and sexual violence, including domestic violence. 

Protecting  the  rights  of  women  in  conflict  and 
post-conflict  situations  continues  to  be  another  high 
priority  for  the  United  Nations.  Women  facing  such 
situations  are  very  often  victims  of  sexual  violence, 
mass rape, torture and arbitrary executions.  
Schooling  and  education  are  vital  to  countering 

discrimination and favour the empowerment of women. 
trafficking 
achieve 
united 
it 
11-51670 

7 

A/66/PV.28 

Improving  the  quality  of  and  access  to  education  for 
women  and  children  requires  providing  them  with 
instruments  to  improve  their  economic  and  social 
living conditions. 

I have talked about groups of people who live in 
extremely  difficult  conditions  in  many  areas  of  the 
world  and  represent  a  very  large  share  of  the  world’s 
population.  The  primary  task  of  each  individual  and 
State  is  to  support  every  effort  to  help  them  live  in 
decent  conditions  and  feel  fully  included  in  society. 
Their  progress  will  be  our  progress,  and  their  smile 
will be the light allowing us to look to the future with 
optimism. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  K.  Shanmugam,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Singapore. 
Mr.  Shanmugam  (Singapore):  Allow  me  to 

congratulate  Ambassador  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser 
on his election as President of the General Assembly at 
its sixty-sixth session. I would also like to congratulate 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  on  his  unanimous 
reappointment to a second term. 

I  extend  my  warmest  congratulations  to  South 
Sudan on becoming the newest Member of the United 
Nations  family.  We  wish  President  Al-Nasser  and 
Secretary-General Ban success in the year ahead. 

The  world  has  seen  difficult  times  since  the 
global  economic  crisis  of  2008.  This  has  been 
compounded by natural and man-made disasters, which 
have grown in scale and severity. The repercussions of 
those 
outcomes. 
Governments  have  to  grapple  with  the  challenge  of 
reviving growth and creating jobs for our citizens, even 
as the uncertain global economic recovery comes under 
threat  from  the  severe  fiscal  and  debt  crisis  in  the 
United  States  and  eurozone.  Fears  about  the  risk  of  a 
double-dip recession remain. 

Other  important  global  challenges  need  serious 
attention  and  resources  as  well.  Those  include  long-
term  issues  such  as  sustainable  development,  climate 
change  and  water  security.  There  are  also  immediate 
concerns  such  as  food  security,  job  creation  and 
making  our  cities  more  livable.  These  are  issues  that 
require urgent joint action by the global community. 

By  next  month,  we  will  have  7  billion  people  to 
feed, clothe and find meaningful employment for. That 
is  a  stark  reminder  of  the  magnitude  of  our  task.  The 
unpredictable 
produce 
events 
for 
free 
to  push 
for  a  breakthrough 
United Nations must play an important role in dealing 
with  these  challenges.  First,  the  United  Nations,  the 
World  Bank,  the  International  Monetary  Fund  and  the 
World  Trade  Organization  can  help  ensure  that  the 
global  economic  framework  remains  conducive  to 
growth amidst the maelstrom of economic instability. 

We are in for a bumpy ride, with growth in all the 
major  markets  slowing,  and  there  is  no  guarantee  of 
quick recovery. At the same time, we face a worrisome 
rise in protectionist sentiments. A recent report by the 
World Trade Organization showed that the Group of 20 
(G-20)  countries  introduced  122  new  trade-restrictive 
measures from 2010 to April 2011. Too many countries 
are  focused  more  on  domestic  political  concerns  than 
on  implementing  their  multilateral  commitments  and 
taking concerted action at the global level. That is why 
the  prospects 
the  Doha 
in 
Development Round continue to be slim.  

As  the  pre-eminent  multilateral  institution  in  the 
world,  the  United  Nations  should  take  a  strong  stand, 
make a united pledge against trade-restrictive measures 
and  continue 
trade.  Fighting 
protectionist pressures collectively is important for the 
long-term  sustainability  of  our  economies.  The 
philosophy  of  common  enrichment  that  imbues  the 
United  Nations  Charter  must  replace  short-sighted 
strategies  of  survival  if  we  are  to  truly  take  the  path 
towards  sustainability.  Due  to  its  sheer  membership 
size  and  functions,  the  United  Nations  will  need  time 
to  achieve  consensus  and  make  decisions. That  leaves 
the  door  open  for  ad  hoc  coordination  by  smaller, 
informal groups, especially during critical periods like 
the  fall  of  2008.  There  is  a  role  for  smaller,  regional 
groupings like the G-20 and the Group of Eight, which 
may  be  more  efficient  and  dynamic  in  decision-
making.  

A  certain  amount  of  fluidity  is  a  given  in  global 
governance for some time to come, and even necessary 
in  order  to  tackle  increasingly  complex  and  varied 
global problems. But ultimately, a balance needs to be 
struck between efficiency and genuine legitimacy. The 
G-20 accounts for over 80 per cent of world trade and 
gross  domestic  product,  but  that  still  leaves  the 
majority  of  countries  and  a  significant  number  of 
people  outside  of  that  group.  There  is  scope  for  the 
United  Nations  to  play  a  meaningful  role  by  ensuring 
that  all  groupings  take  into  account  and  promote  the 
greater  interest.  The  United  Nations  must  also  act 
together  with  such  groupings  as  complementary  parts 
8 

11-51670 
increasingly 


of  the  international  system,  not  as  mutually  exclusive 
competitors. 

The United Nations also has an important role in 
tackling  two  other  challenges  —  food  and  water 
security,  which  are  two  sides  of  the  same  coin.  The 
Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United 
Nations has reported an escalation of international food 
prices to levels not seen in decades. And according to 
the  World  Bank,  rising  food  costs  have  pushed 
44 million  people  into  extreme  poverty  and  hunger 
since  June  2010.  The  hunger  crisis  in  the  Horn  of 
Africa is but one face of this devastation. 

Equally critical is the challenge of water security. 
The  United  Nations  Environment  Programme  (UNEP) 
has  pointed  out  that  about  one-third  of  the  world’s 
population  lives  in  countries  with  moderate  to  high 
water  stress,  with  a  disproportionate  impact  on  the 
poor. With current projected global population growth, 
the task of providing water for human sustenance will 
become 
increasing 
competition over this scarce but vital resource may fuel 
instability and conflict within and between States. 
The United Nations is doing a great deal in both 

areas 
foster  collaboration  among 
Member States. UNEP has long actively addressed the 
water  issue,  together  with  partner  United  Nations 
agencies  and  other  organizations.  Looking  ahead,  the 
United  Nations  can  do  more  to  build  synergies  of 
technology,  policy  and  capacity  in  this  field.  In  this 
regard,  events  like  the  annual  World  Water  Week  in 
Stockholm come to the forefront of the public’s minds 
when talking about championing water issues. 

Likewise,  since  2008,  Singapore  has  organized 
the  Singapore  International  Water  Week,  a  global 
platform  that  brings  together  policymakers,  industry 
leaders, experts and practitioners to address challenges, 
showcase  technologies,  discover  opportunities  and 
celebrate  achievements 
In 
Singapore,  we  have  always  regarded  water  as  a 
strategic  resource.  We  have  invested  considerable 
resources in researching and testing new technologies. 
We would be happy to share our experiences. 
I  am  certain  that  there  are  also  many  other 

success  stories  of  countries  that  have  adopted  modern 
technology and sound policies to overcome their water 
insecurity.  That  is  why  Singapore  is  happy  to  be  a 
member  of  the  Green  Group,  an  informal  grouping 
initiated by Slovenia, whose members discuss ways to 
the  water  world. 
to  proactively 
difficult, 
and 
in 
A/66/PV.28
collective 
experiences 
augment  our 
in  water 
management.  That  model  can  be  replicated  by  the 
United Nations to include more Member States. 
We also need to look at the processes, procedures 

and 
the  United  Nations.  The 
leadership  within 
efficiency of our responses can and should be reviewed 
and  improved  upon.  At  present,  there  is  a  disconnect 
between  the  proliferation  of  resolutions,  which  we 
debate  year  after  year,  and  actual  present  realities. 
There is a great need to coordinate better between New 
York  and  the  ground.  The  immense  good  work  in  the 
field that various United Nations personnel, such as our 
humanitarian  and  aid  workers,  are  doing  has  to  be 
better 
related 
to  what  Member  States  do  at 
Headquarters. 

While  established  processes  are  important,  that 
should  not  hamper  innovative  thinking  and  solutions. 
For  example,  we  should  set  definitive  timelines  and 
specific  objectives  for  resolutions,  and  retire  others. 
Let us focus on what needs to be done, who should do 
it, and by when it should be done. This will ensure that 
there  are  targeted  outcomes  and  real  implementation. 
This may seem like a small, procedural change, but to 
borrow  a  phrase,  sometimes  little  things  can  make  a 
big difference.  

The alternative is to leave the shaping of the new 
global  governance  to  other  groupings,  which  will  by 
definition be less inclusive. That will lead to a further 
marginalization of the small and the weak. The United 
Nations  needs  to  find  ways  to  work  with  limited 
groupings  as  complementary  parts  of  the  international 
system. This is what the Global Governance Group, or 
3G, has sought to achieve. 

To  act  as  a  bridge  between  the  United  Nations 
and  the  Group  of  20,  the  3G  has  provided  ideas  to 
strengthen  the  latter’s  engagement  with  the  United 
Nations. The  3G has focused on areas of ongoing and 
potential cooperation such as development, tackling the 
problem  of  food  security  and  fostering  the  growth  of 
livable  cities.  It  has  also  called  for  a  comprehensive 
approach  to  addressing  the  different  factors  affecting 
food  security  and  the  volatility  of  food  prices.  That 
includes a call for a renewed political commitment to a 
universal,  rules-based,  open,  non-discriminatory  and 
equitable  multilateral  trading  system  under  the  World 
Trade  Organization,  which  we  believe  is  critical  to 
achieving food security. 
11-51670 

9 

for 
take 
the  only 
for  granted, 
this  position 
is  uniquely  placed 
The  United  Nations 
Globalization  and  economic 
The  United  Nations  remains 
A/66/PV.28 


truly 
universal  and  international  organization.  There  is  no 
alternative to the United Nations. The steady expansion 
of  its  membership  from  51  at  its  founding  in  1945  to 
193  today  is  a  testament  to  the  value  that  countries 
accord to membership in this Organization. 

to 
influence  our  collective  future.  However,  we  should 
not 
the 
Organization’s  ability  to  influence  global  issues  is 
ultimately  dependent  on  the  decisions  that  we  as 
Member States take at the United Nations. 

Sixty-five years ago, following the devastation of 
World  War  II,  we  managed  to  forge  a  consensus  that 
was  underpinned  by  the  notion  of  inclusive  global 
citizenship  and  manifested  by  the  establishment  of  a 
set of international institutions, practices and norms. At 
the forefront was the United Nations Charter.  
integration  have 

since  redefined  global  governance  and  decision-
making.  The  United  Nations  needs  to  adjust  its 
processes to this new environment. But at the core, its 
values remain the same: to maintain international peace 
and  security  and  to  promote  development,  human 
rights and respect for the rule of law. 

It  is  up  to  us,  the  Member  States,  to  rally  the 
necessary  political  will  to  put  aside  narrow  self-
interests and act for our collective good and secure the 
well-being of our future generations. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency, Mr. Sergei Martynov, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Belarus. 
Mr.  Martynov  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian): 

Much  has  been  said  from  this  rostrum  in  recent  years 
about  global  governance.  Yet  in  fact  there  is  a 
pervasive feeling that chaos is inexorably engulfing our 
planet.  Indeed,  one  global  crisis  comes  hard  on  the 
heels of another. International law is being shamelessly 
trampled.  Inequality  and  poverty  are  on  the  rise,  and 
above  all,  an  ever  increasing  number  of  people  in  the 
world are exposed to suffering. 
This is the logical outcome of the world operating 

without  a  system  and  order.  Twenty  years  ago,  the 
international  community  had  its  own  constitutional 
the  end  of  an  epochal 
moment  as  a  result  of 
confrontation, 
a 
comprehensive  strategy  for  stable  development  of  the 
opportunity 
elaborate 
an 
to 
The 
lack  of  common  vision  excluded 
world in the future. We missed that opportunity, first of 
all  because  egoism  and  gloating  rather  than  common 
sense  took  the  upper  hand  in  the  mindset  of  the 
so-called winners. 

the 
possibility of our taking effective concerted action. As 
a  result,  the  international  community  today  is  only 
reacting  to  ever-rising  global  challenges,  having  no 
recourse  to  instruments  that  might  prevent  them.  The 
situation  is  bound  to  persist  unless  we  arrive  together 
at  a  set  of  long-term,  efficient  measures.  We  need  a 
global strategy against chaos. 

The failures of the international community over 
the past twenty years suggest that for such a strategy to 
become a strategy for success, it would have to be built 
around  the  following  three  foundations:  strengthening 
international  law,  establishing  global  partnerships  and 
revitalizing the United Nations. 
The  history  of  mankind  has  always  been  the 

history of the opposition of power and law. Only in the 
past century has that argument been resolved, and only 
de jure, in favour of the latter. By the way, it is hardly 
an exaggeration to say that a civilization is shaped by 
its transition from power to law. 

that  a  strategy 
against chaos cannot succeed if we fail to preserve and 
strengthen 
law  as  a 
deterrent  against  lawlessness  and  impunity.  Clearly, 
there  is  more  than  enough  reason  to  be  concerned, 
since  power,  de  facto,  dominates  law  more  often  than 
not.  

far-reaching 
changes  in  the  Middle  East.  The  countries  of  that 
region  have  the  inalienable  right  to  determine  their 
own  way  of  development.  All  of  us  must  respect  the 
those  States  and  refrain  from 
choice  made  by 
interfering 
is  our 
international obligation as Member States of the United 
Nations. 

Unfortunately,  not  every  country  complies  with 
its international obligations concerning the free choice 
of development paths. For decades the United States of 
America  has  maintained  an  economic,  trade  and 
financial  blockade  against  freedom-loving  Cuba.  That 
is  a  clear  violation  of  United  Nations  principles  and 
decisions. 
This  year  we  have  witnessed 
internal  affairs.  That 
is  firmly  convinced 
the  system  of 
international 
Belarus 
their 
in 
10 

11-51670 



Belarus has also found itself the target not only of 
malicious  attacks  but  also  of  economic  sanctions  for 
the  choice  that  the  Belarussian  nation  made  with  the 
election  of  its  own  President.  Belarussians  will  never 
renounce  their  right  of  choice.  Determining  our  own 
path  of  development  is  a  sacred  value  to  us.  Neither 
sanctions  nor  blackmail  and  threats  will  alter  our 
stance. Justice is on our side. 

Belarus  has  never  tried  to  teach  anyone  how  to 
live. We  consistently  advocate  the  need  to  respect  the 
diverse development paths of the world’s nations. The 
Republic  of  Belarus  stands  ready  to  develop  mutually 
beneficial  cooperation  with  all  countries,  even  those 
with  whom  we  continue  to  have  acute  differences. 
After  all,  we  are  simply  asking  that  others  treat  us  as 
we  treat  them,  with  respect  and  equality.  That  is  our 
right too. 

The  great  Albert  Einstein  once  said:  “Problems 
cannot  be  solved  at  the  same  level  of  awareness  that 
created  them.”  The  growing  transnational  challenges 
and  threats  cannot  be  successfully  addressed  through 
traditional  foreign  policy  tools  such  as  balance  of 
power, spheres of influence, sanctions and threats. We 
need  new  forms  of  cooperation  that  factor  in  the  two 
contemporary global shifts that foreign policy analysts 
correctly  emphasize:  from  the  West  to  the  rest,  and 
from States to non-State actors. 
We believe that global partnerships among States, 

international  organizations,  civil  society  and 
the 
private  sector  represent  the  best  form  of  cooperation 
for facing those and any other challenges. 

Global  partnerships  constitute  an  integral  part  of 
the  strategy  against  chaos.  It  is  just  such  partnerships 
that  can  ensure  a  real  pooling  of  efforts  by  interested 
stakeholders  in  today’s  world  in  order  to  oppose  the 
whole array of challenges and threats that recognize no 
borders.  We  are  certain  that  at  the  international  level 
there is no alternative to integration and inclusiveness. 
Globalization and interdependence have made all of us 
equally  vulnerable  to  transnational  problems.  Thus, 
there  cannot  be  well-being  and  stability  in  the  world 
for the few while others live in poverty and suffering.  

The  profound  changes  in Africa  and  the  Middle 
East  caused  by  the  growing  problems  of  poverty  and 
inequality  dictate 
to  achieve  a  global 
partnership  for  development.  Last  year’s  High-level 
Meeting  at  the  United  Nations  and  the  Seoul  Meeting 
of the Group of 20 made important contributions to the 
the  need 
A/66/PV.28
energy 
cutting-edge 
technologies 
efforts in this field. At the same time, the relentless rise 
of  oil,  food  and  energy  prices  across  the  globe  points 
out  a  new  strain  on  development,  hence  the  need  for 
more proactive and unconventional approaches. 

Among  such  specific  approaches,  we  consider  it 
important  to  address  the  issue  of  the  transfer  of 
effective, 
to 
developing and middle-income countries. That is also a 
key  element  for  overcoming  the  problems  of  climate 
change. What  is  crucial  here  is  that  such  technologies 
already  exist  and  are  established  in  many  parts  of  the 
globe. Therefore, the difficulties are not technical.  

Ultimately,  let  us  grasp  one  point:  today  it  is 
impossible  to  have  a  green  paradise  for  the  affluent 
countries  while  the  poor  ones  live  in  a  contaminated 
hell.  The  finite  nature  of  Earth  rules  out  such  a 
scenario.  

As a practical step, Belarus would like to suggest 
setting  up  a  global  mechanism  —  through  a  General 
Assembly resolution on new and renewable sources of 
energy and under the outcome document of the Rio+20 
Conference — under the aegis of the United Nations to 
ensure  access  to  modern  energy  technologies  for  all 
countries  of  the  world.  That  would  be  our  best 
contribution  to  the  International  Year  of  Sustainable 
Energy for All that we are to celebrate in 2012. 
Over  the  past  year,  we  have  made  important 

strides 
the  Global  Partnership  against 
Slavery  and  Trafficking  in  Human  Beings  in  the 
Twenty-first  Century, 
initiated  by  Belarus.  The 
implementation of the Global Plan of Action to Combat 
Trafficking  in  Persons  is  under  way.  Interested  States, 
international organizations and civil society, along with 
the private sector,  are already actively participating in 
the  process.  It  is  gratifying  that  these  efforts  have 
focused on protecting the rights of victims.  

full  weight  behind  such  an 
approach, Belarus was among the first States to make a 
voluntary contribution to the United Nations Voluntary 
Trust Fund for Victims of Trafficking. We are grateful 
to those countries that joined in the work of the Group 
of Friends United against Human Trafficking. 

Among  the  prospects  for  establishing  global 
partnerships, we see as highly promising the theme of 
supporting  youth.  At 
the  Assembly’s  High-level 
Meeting on Youth last year, Belarus came up with the 
initiative  to  create  a  partnership  to  that  effect.  We 
in  forging 
Throwing 
its 
11-51670 

11 

to 
the  United  Nations 
A/66/PV.28 

welcome the High-level Meeting on Youth held in July 
this  year  in  the  context  of  the  International  Year  of 
Youth. We hope that the event will be followed by the 
development  of  efficient  global  policies  to  protect  the 
interests of youth. 

There  is  a  natural  place  where  a  strategy  for 
development  for  the  future  must  be  devised  and 
implemented.  That  place  is  the  United  Nations.  The 
question today is, to what extent is the United Nations 
fit to take this task upon itself? Let us be frank. We all 
have  claims  against  the  United  Nations.  Indeed,  the 
major  task  of  the  Organization  over  the  past  years 
seems to have been to survive various crises rather than 
to solve, let alone prevent, them.  

Is  the  United  Nations  to  blame  for  this  state  of 
affairs? Let us be outspoken once more and say “No”. 
The United Nations is us. It is us, the Member States, 
who  are  at  fault,  because  together  we  failed  both  to 
grasp  what  kind  of  world  we  wanted  to  build  and  to 
adjust 
the  new  realities. 
Therefore,  it  is  hardly  surprising  that  the  United 
Nations  has  more  frequently  served  as  a  stage  for 
individual actors rather than as a platform for common 
action. 

The need to revitalize the Organization stands out 
sharply  as  never  before.  We  need  to  reform  the 
principal  organs  of 
the 
fundamental orientation of its activities. 

The  Security  Council  should  not  stay  fixed  in  a 
form  that  was  appropriate  in  era  of  realpolitik.  In  the 
interests  of  developing  countries  above  all,  we  are 
convinced  that  the  Council  must  be  enlarged  in  both 
categories.  Bringing  the  Council’s  working  methods 
into conformity with the spirit of the age must serve to 
enhance the authority and efficiency of its work. 

is  plagued  by  severe  economic 
problems,  yet  the  substantial  economic  capacities  of 
the  United  Nations  have  not  been  properly  utilized. 
The  activities  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
should be aligned with solutions to the urgent problems 
of  Member  States  to  a  much  greater  extent  than  they 
are  now.  Belarus  is  eager  to  contribute  to  this  work, 
including as member of the Council, provided that next 
month  Member  States  do  Belarus  the  honour  of 
electing it to that vital United Nations body. 

Strengthening  the  United  Nations  is  impossible 
without  striking  a  balance  among  the  interests  of 
the  United  Nations  and 
The  world 
then 
through 
that  since 
various groups of countries. Several years ago, Belarus 
was  among  the  Member  States  that  initiated  efforts  to 
have the General Assembly pay greater attention to the 
problems  of  middle-income  countries.  We  are  glad  to 
see 
there  has  been  a  growing 
understanding  of  the  significance  of  that  group  of 
countries in world political and economic processes. At 
the  current  session  Belarus,  together  with  like-minded 
countries, will continue efforts to guide United Nations 
organs  conducting  operational  activities  towards  a 
more robust and efficient response to the specific needs 
of that group of countries and its many members. 

The  authority  of  the  United  Nations  among  the 
world’s  ordinary  people  is  high  in  places  where  it 
really  helps  in  the  transition  from  chaos  and  violence 
to  order  and  stability 
its  peacekeeping 
activities. In our view, efforts to strengthen this domain 
demand the widest support. Responding to the request 
of  the  Secretary-General,  Belarus  started  contributing 
as it could by taking part in peacekeeping operations. 

There  is  also  the  need  to  enhance  the  mediation 
role of the United Nations in the settlement of disputes 
by peaceful means. For that it is important not only to 
build  up  the  Organization’s  internal  capacities,  but  to 
ensure active United Nations cooperation with regional 
organizations,  for  instance  the  Collective  Security 
Treaty  Organization  (CSTO),  which  know  best  the 
problems  in  their  own  areas  of  responsibility.  As  the 
current  Chair  of  the  CSTO,  Belarus  stands  ready  to 
assist in this effort as much as it can. 

Martin  Luther  King  once  said,  “The  time  is 
always  right  to  do  what  is  right.”  Let  us  heed  this 
reasonable advice and, as the international community, 
do without delay what we must do. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Abubakr  A.  Al-Qirbi,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Yemen. 
Mr. Al-Qirbi  (Yemen)  (spoke  in Arabic): At  the 

outset, allow me to congratulate our brother Mr. Nassir 
Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  on  his  assumption  of 
the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  am  fully 
confident  that,  given  his  renowned  experience  and 
wisdom,  he  will  ably  execute  the  functions  of  his 
position. I wish him every success in his work. I would 
to 
like 
thanks  and  appreciation 
Mr. Joseph  Deiss  for  his  constructive  efforts 
in 
presiding  over  the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth 
session. 
to  express  our 
12 

11-51670 
that 
to 
resorted 
to  express  our 



Our  thanks  also  go  to  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  on  his 
deserved re-election as Secretary-General of the United 
Nations.  We  wish 
thanks  and 
appreciation to him, as well as to the entire Secretariat 
staff for their work over the past year, in particular for 
their follow-up of the situation in my country. 

We  wish  to  congratulate  the  people  of  the 
Republic  of  South  Sudan  on 
country’s 
establishment and accession to the United Nations. We 
also  wish  to  congratulate  the  National  Transitional 
Council of Libya for its presence among us and for its 
representation of the brotherly Libyan people. 

Since January, my country has been experiencing 
an  acute  political  crisis.  The  political  opposition  that 
has  been  one  of  the  main  components  of  our  system 
since  the  unified  State  of  Yemen  was  established  in 
May  1990  decided 
relinquish  all  common 
denominators  and  rejected  the  principle  of  consensus, 
refusing  to  implement  the  agreement  reached  since 
2006  following  its  defeat  in  the  presidential  elections. 
It has created crises, raising its demands and rejecting 
all  compromises  and 
that 
democratic  means  would  not  enable  it  to  seize  power, 
the  opposition 
to  political  manoeuvres, 
including  violence,  threatening  the  outbreak  of  civil 
war  and  complete  devastation  in  Yemen.  That  could 
undermine  all  the  achievements  of  the Yemeni  people 
in the modern era, as well as their struggle to establish 
a  democratic  political  system  and  to  protect  their 
national identity, social fabric, unique human harmony 
and the system that we have managed to build. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  1990s, Yemen’s  national 
movement  made  great  progress  by  establishing  a 
unified  State  of  Yemen, 
founded  on  pluralistic 
democratic  principles  and  coupled  with  various  civil 
institutions that promoted and respected human rights. 
However,  those  who  wished  narrow,  individual  and 
partisan interests to prevail did not support that historic 
achievement.  Therefore,  they  tried  to  stir  up  trouble, 
using the conflicts and mistakes made in Yemen in the 
early  days  of  our  unified  State,  as  well  as  the 
challenges 
the  uncontrolled 
population  growth,  the  prevailing  poverty,  the  lack  of 
national 
and 
desertification, and the scarce water and oil resources, 
which were the main source of income.  

All  those  factors  have  made  it  impossible  for 
thousands of university graduates to find employment, 
to  development  — 
solutions.  Realizing 
resources, 
increasing 
drought 
A/66/PV.28
which  has  led  to  social  and  political  tensions  and 
frustration. But all the opposition forces used the tidal 
wave of change witnessed by Arab countries to prevent 
Yemen  from  achieving  democratic  change  through 
elections.  However,  we  respected  young  people’s 
demand for change and started a dialogue with them in 
order  to  meet  their  demands  for  reform.  We  have 
created  tens  of  thousands  of  jobs  in  order  to  alleviate 
unemployment.  

the  opposition  parties  abused  and 
However, 
misused  the  protests  of  our  young  people  in  order  to 
seize  power,  and  some  of  their  elements  have  carried 
out  subversive  acts  to  sabotage  the  youth  movement 
and  its  just  demands.  The  opposition  parties  rejected 
the  results  of  the  democratic  elections  that  were 
conducted  under  the  international  monitoring  of  the 
European Union, the Democratic National Institute and 
several international organizations, which verified that 
the elections were fair, democratic and transparent. 

Our Government showed its readiness to meet the 
requests  of  our  young  people  and  their  legitimate 
demands  to  build  a  better  future  for  us  and  for 
prosperity — a future that is hindered by my country’s 
weak  economy,  limited  national  resources  and  the 
prevalence of poverty and unemployment, as well as by 
terrorism and the repercussions of the global financial 
crisis.  Our  Government  kept  on  calling  on  our 
development  partners  and  friends  and  international 
organizations 
to  provide  financial  and  economic 
support in order to achieve sustainable development in 
Yemen,  which  would  ensure  security  and  stability  in 
our country. 

The  main  reason  for,  and  primary  cause  of,  the 
current upheaval in Yemen is the dissatisfaction of the 
opposition  and  its  refusal  to  endorse  the  election  that 
took place in 2006. In that election our people showed 
confidence in the President of the Republic and chose 
him as our President. The opposition’s rejection of that 
process  has  led  to  the  crisis  that  we  are  witnessing 
today  at  the  economic,  development,  security  and 
political levels.  

Despite  the  intransigence  of  the  opposition,  the 
President of the Republic offered compromise in order 
to  achieve  reconciliation  between  the  opposition  and 
the  Government.  That  has  led  to  the  postponement  of 
parliamentary  elections  for  two  years.  However,  the 
efforts of our President continue through his initiatives 
before  Parliament  and 
the  Consultative  Council, 
11-51670 

13 
overcome 
and 
returning 
be 
legality 
by 
remedying 
A/66/PV.28 

whereby  he  affirmed  that  he  had  no  intention  of 
running  in  the  presidential  elections  and  that  he 
accepted  the  amendments  to  the  Constitution  and  the 
electoral law, as well  as  an entire package of political 
reforms. 

Our country has incurred heavy losses, estimated 
at more than $2 billion, as a result of the chaos caused 
by  the  opposition  parties,  which  have  tried  to  cut  off 
roads,  blow  up  oil  pipelines  and  cut  power  lines  in 
many  of  our  cities,  in  particular  in  the  capital, Ta’izz, 
Aden and Abyan. However, the Government continued 
to  seek  a  peaceful  solution  to  the  political  crisis, 
calling on the opposition to come to the table and begin 
dialogue.  We  in  Yemen  are  confident  that  the  recent 
to 
division  will 
constitutional 
certain 
shortcomings. 

The  Government  offered  a  new  opportunity  for 
dialogue  by  endorsing  the  initiative  of  the  Gulf 
Cooperation  Council  (GCC)  as  the  foundation  for  a 
solution to the political crisis, especially given that His 
Excellency  President  Ali  Abdullah  Saleh  decided  to 
entrust  his  Vice-President  with  all  constitutional 
powers, to initiate dialogue with the signatories of the 
Gulf  initiative  and  to  create  a  mechanism  that  would 
guarantee  a  smooth  and  democratic  transfer  of  power. 
That  would  allow  for  reconciliation,  reform,  change 
and  reconstruction  in Yemen  without  any  violation  of 
security, the Constitution or democratic principles. 

We  believe  that  Yemen,  as  a  country  that  opted 
for  dialogue  as  a  means  of  overcoming  the  political 
crisis,  will  provide  a  model  for  change  in  which  all 
parties  are  winners  and  the  status  of  women  is 
enhanced.  The  President,  following  his  return  to 
Sana’a,  declared 
that  he 
supported the GCC initiative and was committed to it. 
He called on all parties to initiate dialogue and to reach 
a compromise with a view to its implementation. 

My country is continuing to make every effort to 
fight  Al-Qaida  and  its  terrorist  acts  in  our  country 
despite  our  Government’s  limited  resources.  We  have 
dealt  some  serious  blows  to  Al-Qaida  in  Abyan 
province  in  recent  weeks.  What  we  need  at  the 
international  level is an integrated global strategy that 
would help us build our national capacities and thereby 
enable  us  to  fight  extremism  and  terrorist  ideology. 
Such  a  strategy  would  not  involve  military  force  only 
but  would  be  of  a  social,  educational  and  political 
in  no  uncertain 

nature  and  would  strive  to  eradicate  poverty  and 
achieve universal justice. 

The  Republic  of  Yemen  attaches  primary 
importance to human rights, which is one of  the main 
pillars of the United Nations. Since the return of unity 
to Yemen in 1990, my country has made great strides in 
this  area.  We  have  established  a  Ministry  for  Human 
Rights  and  have  become  a  signatory  and  party  to  a 
number  of  international  human  rights  instruments  and 
conventions,  on  whose  implementation  we  submit 
periodic  reports.  We  have  also  submitted  our  national 
reports  within  the  context  of  the  universal  periodic 
review  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  with  which  we 
cooperate. 

In  that  connection,  we  welcome  the  outcome  of 
the review conducted by the Human Rights Council in 
Geneva  and  New  York,  in  which  we  participated 
actively.  There  is  no  doubt  that  during  the  political 
crisis  many  human 
rights  violations  have  been 
committed by all parties. The Government nonetheless 
showed  a  readiness  to  conduct  independent  national 
investigations  and  to  bring  the  perpetrators  to  justice. 
The  Government  also  opened  its  doors  to  the  fact-
finding mission sent by the Human Rights Council. In 
response  to  an  invitation  by  our  Government,  the 
mission visited Yemen in July and submitted its report 
to the Council on 19 September. However, my country 
believes that resolving the political crisis is the key to 
stopping all violations of human rights. 

its 
of  Yemen, 
chairmanship  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  in  2010, 
continued  to  actively  and  sincerely  work  to  achieve 
consensus  and  unity  within  the  Group,  which  led  to  a 
consensus  on  many  issues  of  interest  to  the  Group, 
including,  inter  alia,  climate  change,  the  outcome 
document  of  the  High-level  Plenary  Meeting  of  the 
General  Assembly  on  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals,  and  United  Nations  reform.  In  that  connection, 
we  wish  every  success  to  the  Republic  of  Argentina 
during  its  chairmanship  of  the  Group.  We  also  wish 
every  success  to  the  fraternal  Republic  of  Algeria, 
which will chair the Group in 2012. 

The  Israeli-Arab  conflict  represents  the  main 
threat to international peace and security. An objective 
understanding  of  the  conflict  clearly  shows  Israel’s 
intransigence 
its  Government’s  policy  of 
establishing  settlements,  its  rejection  of  the  legitimate 
and  inalienable  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people,  its 
The  Government 
during 
and 
terms 
14 

11-51670 
the  session  of 
Mr.  Lavrov  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 


refusal  to  abide  by  international  legality,  and  its 
rejection of the Arab Peace Initiative. We call upon the 
international  community  and 
the  peace  sponsors, 
including  the  United  States  of  America,  to  continue 
their  efforts  to  achieve  universal  recognition  of  a 
sovereign State of Palestine and to allow it to join the 
United  Nations  as  a  fully  fledged  Member  of  the 
Organization and other world organizations and organs. 

Allow me in closing to reiterate my thanks to the 
Secretary-General for his efforts in following the crisis 
in Yemen.  I  wish  also  to  thank  all  the  United  Nations 
agencies  for  their  humanitarian  efforts  in  my  country 
during this political crisis. 
The  Acting  President: I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Sergey  Lavrov,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Russian Federation. 

in 
Russian):  This  year 
the  General 
Assembly  is  opening  at  a  time  when  international 
relations are in a state of turbulence. The Middle East 
and North Africa have gone through a period of large-
scale  changes,  and  the  situation  is  volatile  in  certain 
other parts of the world. We have not yet been able to 
put 
track  of 
progressive  sustainable  development.  The  increasing 
number  of  alarming  factors  has  been  accompanied  by 
an exacerbation of social, inter-ethnic and intercultural 
conflicts as well as outbreaks of extremism. 

in  adverse  weather 
conditions  needs  a  united  crew  and  a  compass  to  find 
the  right  course,  the  international  community  today 
needs in particular to deploy joint efforts to respond to 
common  challenges  and  set  clear  guidelines 
to 
strengthen  global  governance  mechanisms.  We  are 
convinced that such guidelines should include, first and 
foremost, the rule of international law; clear, strict and 
responsible  reliance  on  the  fundamental  principles  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations;  and  the  will  to 
implement a positive unification agenda. 
remains  a  pillar  of 

international 
relations  and  equitable  multilateral 
cooperation in the interests of all States. It has a unique 
legitimacy  and  the  necessary  authority  to  respond 
adequately  to  the  variety  of  contemporary  risks  and 
threats. It is the United Nations that should continue to 
provide political, legal and moral leadership in dealing 
with global challenges, to establish equitable principles 
their 
and 
the  global  economy  back  on 
Just  as  a  ship  caught 
The  United  Nations 
standards  of 
to  monitor 
the 
A/66/PV.28
and 
financial 
the  global 
implementation and to render necessary assistance and 
support for the States that need it. 

Ten  years  ago  on  September  11,  a  horrible 
terrorist  attack  was  committed  in  this  city.  We  are 
convinced that it is necessary to strengthen multilateral 
cooperation  in  countering  international  terrorism  on 
both  the  global  and  regional  levels.  However,  the 
additional mechanisms to be created in this area should 
be incorporated in our common work within the United 
Nations,  with  due  account 
taken  of 
its  central 
coordinating role in combating terrorism. 

Wide international cooperation is needed to keep 
the  situation  in  the  global  economic  and  financial 
system  under  control.  One  can  hardly  deny 
the 
importance of the role that the Group of Twenty (G-20) 
plays in the post-crisis recovery of the world economy. 
Today,  it  is  important  to  finalize  the  process  of 
reforming 
economic 
architecture  and  to  implement  everything  we  have 
agreed  on,  rather  than  to  stop  halfway. The  efficiency 
of these efforts will only grow if the G-20 strengthens 
its dialogue with the United Nations and its specialized 
agencies.  
A  significant  contribution  to  the  reform  of  the 

global  economy  and  finance 
is  being  made  by 
BRICS —  Brazil,  Russia,  India,  China  and  South 
Africa  —  a  global-scale  association  of  five  major, 
rapidly growing economies that reflects the realities of 
the evolving multipolar world. BRICS does not aim at 
confrontation  with  anyone.  Its  goal  is  to  enhance 
productive  multilateral  collaboration  to  address  the 
urgent problems of the contemporary world. 

reliable 
supply  of  energy  resources  for  the  global  economy. 
Russia  has  proposed  drafting  a  convention  on 
international  energy  security  that  would  cover  all 
aspects  of  global  energy  cooperation,  taking  into 
account  the  balance  of  interests  of  all  actors  in  the 
international  market.  We  call  for  the  start  of  the 
practical preparation of this document. 

As  in  economics,  the  logic  of  joint  consolidated 
actions  should  prevail  in  matters  of  security  and  the 
elimination of surplus weapons worldwide. Russia and 
the United States made another important step towards 
nuclear  disarmament  when  they  signed  the  Treaty  on 
Strategic  Offensive  Arms 
its 
implementation.  Its  practical  realization  will  allow  us 
to make sure that the Treaty is effective and viable and 
Sustainable  development 
requires  a 
began 
and 
interaction, 
11-51670 

15 

A/66/PV.28 

to see how its fundamental principles are implemented. 
We  call  on  all  States  with  nuclear  weapons  capability 
to  join  the  Russian-American  efforts.  We  believe  that 
further progress in nuclear arms reductions is possible 
only on a multilateral basis. 

Moreover,  progress  in  this  area  is  inseparable 
from  coordinated  efforts  to  move  forward  on  all 
aspects  of  strengthening  international  security  and 
strategic  stability.  This 
includes  development  of 
universally  acceptable  approaches  to  missile  defence 
issues,  an  accounting  on  the  impact  of  strategic 
conventional arms, prevention of the weaponization of 
space  and  elimination  of  qualitative  and  quantitative 
imbalances in conventional arms. 

The  deployment  of  strategic  missile  defence 
elements in various parts of the world alters the overall 
configuration of international security. It is not enough 
to  make  statements  that  the  increase  in  global  missile 
defence capabilities would not undermine the basics of 
strategic stability. The issue is far too serious. We need 
solid  legal  guarantees  that  missile  defence  potential 
will actually be adequate to the declared objectives and 
will  not  disrupt  global  and  regional  balances.  This 
holds equally true for both Europe and the Asia-Pacific 
region, where the missile defence factor is beginning to 
affect the strategic environment. 

It  is  of  primary  importance  for  us  to  prevent  the 
undermining  of  the  non-proliferation  regime.  We  call 
for universalization of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of Nuclear Weapons, strengthening of the International 
Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) safeguards system and 
the  entry  into  force  of  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-
Test-Ban  Treaty.  Russia  has  been  one  of  the  main 
initiators  of  the  proposal  to  convene  in  2012  a 
conference  on  establishing  a  zone  free  of  weapons  of 
mass  destruction  and  their  means  of  delivery  in  the 
Middle  East  and  is  now  working  intensively,  together 
with its partners, on the preparations for this important 
forum. 

The  early  resolution  of  the  nuclear  problems  of 
Iran and the Korean Peninsula would contribute to the 
strengthening  of  the  non-proliferation  regime.  We  see 
no  alternative 
their  political  and  diplomatic 
settlement  and  to  taking  concrete  steps  to  create  the 
conditions  for  the  resumption  of  negotiations. We  call 
on  all  partners  to  address  these  tasks  with  utmost 
responsibility. 
to 
In 
of 
the 
age 
new 
The  situation  around  Japan’s  Fukushima  Daiichi-1 

nuclear  power  plant  has  highlighted  the  need  to 
improve  the  international  legal  framework  in  order  to 
ensure  the  safety  of  nuclear  power  facilities.  The 
Russian Federation has made proposals to enhance the 
mechanisms  of  the  Convention  on  Nuclear  Safety  and 
the  Convention  on  Early  Notification  of  a  Nuclear 
Accident  and  to  strengthen  the  relevant  IAEA  norms. 
We urge support for these initiatives. 

telecommunications 
technologies,  international  information  security  has 
become a challenge that requires coordinated efforts by 
the international community. Reliable protection of the 
field  of  information  from  malicious  and  criminal 
attacks  is  the  goal  of  the  initiative  that  Russia  and  its 
partners  are  promoting  at  the  United  Nations.  During 
this  session,  we  will  put  forward  proposals  on 
developing specific rules of conduct in this area. 

In  a  polycentric  world,  an  effective  international 
architecture  can  be  created  only  if  it  rests  on  regional 
building blocks. The enhancing of global governance at 
the  regional  level  and  the  increasing  role  of  regional 
organizations  are  an 
integral  part  of  modern 
international  relations.  Integration  associations  and 
organizations  in  the  Commonwealth  of  Independent 
States area contribute to these processes. The Eurasian 
Economic  Community,  with  its  $10  billion  anti-crisis 
fund, operates in the financial and economic sphere. A 
customs  union  between  Russia,  Kazakhstan  and 
Belarus has been created, and single economic space is 
taking  shape  with  a  view  to  establishing  a  Eurasian 
union. 

The  Collective  Security  Treaty  Organization 
(CSTO)  is  a  key  tool  for  ensuring  stability  within  the 
area  of  its  responsibility.  The  signing  of  the  joint 
declaration on cooperation between the United Nations 
Secretariat  and  the  CSTO  secretariat  in  March  2011 
was  a  major  step  in  the  collaboration  between  these 
two  organizations,  primarily 
field  of 
peacekeeping.  We  are  ready  to  start  working  on  its 
practical  modalities.  Russia  consistently  calls  for 
interaction  between  regional  organizations,  under  the 
auspices  of  the  United  Nations,  to  strengthen  global 
stability  on  the  basis  of  the  solid  legal  framework  of 
the Charter. 
Priority  should  be  given  to  equal  and  indivisible 

security,  predictability, 
transparency  and  mutual 
respect, taking into account one other’s interests. This 
in 
the 
16 

11-51670 
security 
architecture 
to  a  more  stable 


is  exactly  the  aim  of  Russian  President  Medvedev’s 
initiative  to  sign  a  treaty  on  European  security.  Its 
practical implementation would allow us to finally put 
a  period  to  the  post-cold  war  era,  to  establish  a 
universal and clear framework for a reliable solution to 
such issues as missile defence and arms control, and to 
create  a  common  space  of  security  and  development 
without dividing lines. 

Achieving  equal  and  indivisible  security  is  an 
urgent  issue  for  the  Asia-Pacific  region,  with  the 
Russian Far East and Eastern Siberia as integral parts. 
The  joint  initiative  launched  by  the  leaders  of  China 
and  Russia  in  September  2010  is  aimed  at  creating  a 
comprehensive 
and 
cooperation  in  the  Asia-Pacific  region  on  a  bloc-free 
legal  basis.  We  could  move  closer  to  this  goal  by 
promoting a network of multilateral diplomacy, an idea 
that  has  been  supported  by  the  members  of  the 
Shanghai Cooperation Organization. 
Progress  in  the  settlement  of  regional  conflicts 

would  contribute 
international 
environment.  Today,  special  attention  is  given  to  the 
developments in the Arab world.  

Russia  condemns  the  use  of  violence  against 
civilians  and  supports  the  aspirations  of Arab  peoples 
for  the  revival  of  their  States  and  their  democratic 
development  and  social  and  economic  prosperity.  At 
the  same  time,  actions  by  the  outside  forces  must  be 
based  on  full  respect  for  international  law  and  be 
instrumental  to  the  search  for  a  political  settlement 
between 
the  opposition.  The 
attempts  to  go  beyond  the  Security  Council  mandate 
are  unacceptable,  since  they  undermine  its  authority 
and compound the suffering of innocent civilians. 
In this context, it seems quite pertinent that States 

to 
and  regional  organizations  commit 
strictly  complying  with 
the  existing  norms  of 
international law, including humanitarian law, in order 
to  protect  civilians  during  armed  conflict.  This  step, 
which  further  enhances  the  existing  legal  basis  of 
international 
the 
strengthening  of  regional  and  global  security  in  its 
modern, multidimensional interpretation. 

The  leading  role  in  elaborating  modalities  for 
post-conflict resolution in Libya must be played by the 
United Nations and in particular the Security Council. 
That 
the  goal  of  Security  Council 
resolution  2009  (2011)  of  16  September  2011,  which 
relations,  would  contribute 
the  authorities  and 
is  precisely 
themselves 
for 
to 
A/66/PV.28
terms  of  reference  and 
in  peace  and  security.  We  support 
established  the  United  Nations  Support  Mission  in 
Libya.  We  believe  that  it  is  time  to  take  additional 
steps, including the lifting of the no-fly zone. 

As  for  Syria,  it  is  inadmissible  to  boycott 
proposals for a national dialogue, stir up confrontation 
and provoke violence, while neglecting the reforms — 
late  in  coming,  but  still  achievable  —  proposed  by 
President  Al-Assad.  It  is  important  to  encourage  the 
authorities and the opposition to start negotiations and 
agree  on  the  future  of  their  country. We  hope  that  the 
League of Arab States will make the necessary efforts. 

The  situation  in  the  Middle  East  could  be 
significantly  improved  by  progress  in  the  negotiation 
process,  on  the  basis  of  the  main  parameters  defined 
and  recorded  in  Security  Council  resolutions,  the 
Madrid 
the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative,  and  reiterated  in  the  Quartet  ministerial 
statement of 23 September. The only viable basis for a 
settlement is the coexistence of Palestinian and Israeli 
States 
the 
Palestinians’  application  to  the  Security  Council  and 
welcome  the  readiness  reiterated  by  the  President  of 
the Palestinian National Authority, Mr. Abbas, to hold 
talks  with  Israel  on 
the  existing 
international legal framework. 

to 
continue negotiations under United Nations auspices to 
achieve a comprehensive, just and viable settlement on 
the basis of the relevant Security Council resolutions. 

We call upon all parties to the Nagorno-Karabakh 
settlement  process  to  take  advantage  of  the  additional 
opportunities  arising  from  the  efforts  made  in  the 
context  of  Russia’s  mediation.  We  will  promote 
confidence-building 
enforcement 
measures  within  the  framework  of  the  Troika  of  the 
co-Chairs  of 
the  Organization  for  Security  and 
Cooperation  in  Europe  Minsk  Group,  together  with 
American and French partners. 
We  hope  that  the  decision  taken  in  Moscow  on 

22 September  on 
talks  on  a 
Transdniestrian settlement will encourage the parties to 
seek ways to arrive at mutually acceptable agreements. 

We are strongly committed to doing our utmost to 
prevent a repetition of a scenario involving the use  of 
force in the Caucasus, as happened in August 2008 as a 
result  of  a  reckless  venture  by  the  ruling  regime  in 
Tbilisi.  Russia  is  ready  to  act  as  a  guarantor  of 
the  Cypriot  communities 
resuming  official 
We  encourage 
the  basis  of 
ceasefire 
and 
11-51670 

17 

the  non-use  of 
A/66/PV.28 

arrangements  on 
force  between 
Abkhazia,  Georgia,  and  South  Ossetia,  taking  into 
account  the  earlier  relevant  statements  made  by  the 
leaders of these three parties. We would welcome it if 
the United States and the European Union made similar 
commitments.  As  guarantors,  we  would  be  ready  to 
take steps to prevent the resumption of violence in the 
region and, in the case of the wrongful use of force by 
either side, to work towards an early resolution of the 
situation  on  the  basis  of  the  existing  norms  of 
international law. 

Russia  is  providing  significant  support  for  the 
efforts to stabilize the situation in Afghanistan. At the 
same  time,  we  call  on  the  International  Security 
Assistance Force to more effectively fight the growing 
Afghan  drug  threat.  Central  Asia  and  Russia  are 
already facing a “heroin aggression”, while the profits 
from drug trafficking are being used as the main source 
of  financing  the  clandestine  extremist  underground  in 
the  region.  The  fight  against  this  evil  should  be 
uncompromising,  and  it  should  target  the  entire  drug 
business chain. 

The problems on the African continent should be 
a  focus  of  continuous  attention  on  the  part  of  the 
United  Nations.  Such  attention 
include 
development assistance as well as efforts to overcome 
the  current  humanitarian  crisis  in  the  Horn  of  Africa 
and  resolve  the  numerous  ongoing  conflicts,  while 
maintaining the leading role of the African Union. 

necessary 
international  anti-piracy  court  mechanism 
region, 
resolution adopted on the initiative of Russia. 
Experience has shown that pressure and unilateral 

sanctions  cannot  be  a  cure-all  in  addressing  various 
conflict  situations;  they  only  complicate  efforts  to 
resolve them. We urge that an end be put to any actions 
that circumvent the Security Council. We also call for 
the lifting of the blockade of Cuba. Cooperation rather 
than  isolation  should  be  the  method  for  settling 
conflicts in the twenty-first century. 
The  ongoing  transformation  in  contemporary 

international  relations  makes  it  a  priority  task  on  the 
global  agenda  to  expand  intercultural,  interreligious 
and  inter-civilization  dialogue  in  order  to  devise 
approaches  to  the  problems  of  the  modern  world  that 
are  based  on  shared  values.  The  degradation  of 
The eradication of piracy remains a priority. It is 
the  establishment  of  an 
the 
the  Security  Council 
in  accordance  with 
to  accelerate 
should 
in 
Attempts 
falsify  or 
the  General  Assembly 
fundamental  moral  values  leads  to  the  degradation  of 
society.  The  recent  tragic  events  in  Norway,  riots  in 
Great  Britain,  protests  by  young  people  in  other 
countries, and calls to suppress Christian minorities in 
the Middle East and North Africa — all of those events 
are  the  result  of  a  deterioration  in  moral  and  ethical 
values. There can be no freedom without responsibility 
and  no  democracy  without  self-restraint.  There  is  a 
clear  and  urgent  need  to  counter  the  threats  posed  by 
nationalism,  ethnic  and  religious 
intolerance.  We 
therefore  reiterate  the  importance  of  the  recent  High-
level  Meeting  of 
to 
commemorate the tenth anniversary of the adoption of 
the  Durban  Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action 
against  racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia  and 
related intolerance. 

revise  history  are 
to 
inadmissible, all the more so given that we are marking 
the  sixty-fifth  anniversary  of  the  Nuremberg  Tribunal 
verdict.  Political  correctness  and  talk  of  freedom  of 
speech  cannot  serve  as  a  cover  when,  in  certain 
European countries, people who brought disgrace upon 
themselves  by  cooperating  with  the  Nazis  are  being 
talked  and  written  about  in  an  increasingly  elevated 
tone.  Russia  will  never  forget  the  countless  military 
crimes  committed  by  Hitler  and  his  associates  in  our 
land  and  throughout  Europe  during  the  years  of  the 
Nazi aggression. 

The rapid changes taking place in the world make 
it  imperative  to  strengthen  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations and to adapt it to contemporary realities while 
preserving — naturally — its inter-State character and 
the 
its  Charter  principles.  A 
fundamental  element  of  the  Organization’s  renewal  is 
the  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  We  support  a 
solution  that  is  based  upon  the  broadest  possible 
agreement. 

The  world  community  faces  many  challenges, 
and  the  United  Nations,  as  a  major  mechanism  for 
global regulation, is today in demand as never before. 
Together  we  will  find  practical  ways  to  effectively 
overcome the threats of the twenty-first century. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Wilfred  Elrington,  Attorney  General 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Foreign Trade of 
Belize. 
Mr. Elrington (Belize): It is an honour for me to 

deliver  this  address  on  behalf  of  the  people  and  the 
immutability  of 
18 

11-51670 
But 
today’s  world 
Today’s  world 


Government of Belize. It is a particular privilege to do 
so  with  Mr. Al-Nasser  at  the  helm  of  the Assembly.  I 
say  so  because  Belize  has  the  distinct  pleasure  of 
having  him  as  the  Ambassador  of  Qatar  to  Belize,  a 
role  in  which  he  has  distinguished  himself  and  his 
nation, much as he is doing in his role as President of 
the Assembly. 

is  characterized  by  disputes 
between  neighbouring  States  which  have  resulted  and 
continue  to  result  in  untold  damage,  loss  of  life  and 
financial  ruin  to  the  feuding  States.  Thus  Mr. Al-Nasser’s 
selection  of  the  theme  “The  role  of  mediation  in  the 
settlement of disputes” for this year’s general debate is 
a  timely  and  appropriate  one.  We  in  Belize  fully 
subscribe  to  the  view  that  mediation  is  a  much  more 
sensible  means  of  putting  an  end  to  disputes  than  the 
use of force or threats of force, especially in the case of 
neighbouring States whose people have to live side by 
side and who are often dependent upon one another for 
survival and security. 

is  also  characterized  by 
widespread  anxiety,  insecurity,  unrest,  violence  and 
instability. This is manifested in our  financial markets 
as well as in the streets of cities in the developed and 
the  developing  world.  Threats,  both  natural  and  man-
made,  appear  to  be  proliferating.  Debt  crises  are  now 
so globalized that they are dwarfing national fiscal and 
policy  space.  Drugs,  arms  and  human  trafficking 
dominate  the  global  stage,  while  Mother  Nature  is 
undergoing extreme changes, leaving death, destruction 
and disaster in her wake. 

Thus far, unfortunately, international responses to 
these  catastrophic  occurrences  have  been  both 
uninspiring and inadequate. 
Notwithstanding  the  armoury  of  human  rights 

that  are  enshrined  in  our  own  Human  Rights  Charter, 
far  too  many  people  are  still  destitute,  are  still  dying 
from  hunger,  are  still  casualties  of  preventable  or 
curable diseases, are still illiterate, are still jobless and 
are still marginalized and excluded from their very own 
societies. 

the  2008  economic  and 
financial  crisis,  the  global  economy  is  once  again 
bracing  for  another  setback,  as  the  recovery  in  major 
industrialized  economies  stutters  and  risks  a  very  real 
danger  of  reversal.  Terrorism  remains  no  less  of  a 
global 
from  non-communicable 
diseases  now  rivals  mortality  from  communicable 
Three  years  after 
threat.  Mortality 
A/66/PV.28
and 
the 
by 
threat 
posed 
the  damage 
infrastructure  and  marine  and 
diseases.  And  greenhouse  gas  emissions  continue  to 
fuel global warming at a perilous rate. 

Faced with the plethora of ills that now beset our 
world,  we  in  Belize  entertain  no  doubt  that  if  any 
institution holds the key to solving the world problems 
it  is  this  Organization,  the  United  Nations,  and  its 
various  agencies  and  institutions.  Belize  is  therefore 
looking to the United Nations to lead the charge and to 
partner with us in combating three of the most serious 
threats  that  presently  confront  us,  namely,  the  threat 
posed by climate change, the threat posed by crime and 
violence 
chronic 
non-communicable diseases. 

For  small  island  and  coastal  States  like  Belize, 
global  warming  poses  an  existential  threat.  We  have 
already  been  overwhelmed  by  the  nature,  scale  and 
frequency  of 
that  extreme  weather 
conditions, triggered by global warming, have wrought 
on  our 
terrestrial 
organisms.  While  we  appreciate  that  each  of  us  is 
primarily  responsible  for  our  own  welfare  and  we  are 
taking such measures as are within our competence to 
cope with our changing circumstances, climate change 
is  a  global  problem  that  requires  a  global  response 
based  on  the  principle  of  common  but  differentiated 
responsibility. 
The President took the Chair. 


To that end, some small island and coastal States, 
including  Belize,  are  moving  resolutely  towards  low-
carbon  and  no-carbon  emission  economies.  Today, 
24 of  our  small  island  developing  States  (SIDS)  have 
become  partners  in  an  innovative,  sustainable  energy 
initiative  called  SIDS  DOCK,  aimed  at  transforming 
our  energy  sector  and  catalyzing  our  sustainable 
economic  development.  However,  in  order  to  succeed 
in our initiative we will require delivery or transfer of 
the 
friendly 
technology  and 
the  new  and  additional  funding 
promised by the international community. 

In that regard, we consider the upcoming Durban 
Conference on climate change of high importance. We 
believe  that  every  effort  should  be  made  at  the 
Conference to forge a climate change regime that will 
incentivize  significant  emission  reductions  and  the 
protection  and  preservation  of  existing  forests,  while 
simultaneously  creating  disincentives 
to  polluting 
actions. Additionally,  clear,  legally  binding  rules  must 
environmentally 
promised 
often 
11-51670 

19 

resulting 
A/66/PV.28 

be  hammered  out  with  a  view  to  guaranteeing  the 
environmental integrity of our countries. 

Over  the  last  decade,  crime  and  violence  in 
Belize  and  the  rest  of  Central America  have  escalated 
drastically, 
in  some  18,167  homicides. 
However, none of the arms used in those murders was 
produced  in  Central  America.  Those  arms  are  the 
product  of  the  illicit  trafficking  in  guns  and  drugs 
between  South  and  North  America.  The  transnational 
nature  of  those  crimes  is  exacerbated  by  cross-border 
collaboration  among  criminals.  Confronting  that  type 
of criminal activity successfully will clearly require the 
collaboration  and  cooperation  of  the  international 
community. 

We in Belize have stepped up our national efforts, 
in conjunction with our neighbours in Central America, 
the  Caribbean  and  the  United  States,  to  combat  those 
criminal  activities.  But  the  going  is  difficult  and 
progress  is  slow.  We  need  more  help  from  the 
international  community.  Ideally,  we  would  need  a 
universally applicable normative framework to regulate 
the  trade  in  arms,  such  as  an  arms  trade  treaty  that  is 
legally  binding,  robust  and  comprehensive;  one  that 
establishes  the  highest  possible  standards  for  the 
transfer  of  conventional  arms,  especially  small  arms, 
light weapons and ammunition. 
I  now  turn  to  some  of  the  silent  killers  that  are 

and  Caribbean 
ravaging  our  Latin  American 
communities  — 
the  chronic  non-communicable 
diseases  (NCDs),  such  as  hyper-tension,  diabetes  and 
obesity. In the Caribbean today, NCDs are responsible 
for  62  per  cent  of  deaths,  40  per  cent  of  which  occur 
prematurely. 
continues, 
non-communicable  diseases  will  account  for  three  out 
of four deaths in the Caribbean by the year 2030.  

combated 
effectively  only  through  collaborative  efforts  of  the 
international  community. 
that  connection,  we 
welcome the conclusion of the recently held High-level 
Meeting  on  non-communicable  diseases  (A/66/PV.3 
and  A/66/PV.4),  as  well  as  the  first  comprehensive 
global  political  declaration 
chronic 
non-communicable diseases (resolution 66/2). It should 
serve  as  a  template  for  action  at  all  levels.  We  will 
eagerly await the development of indicators and global 
targets  aimed  at  achieving  a  25  per  cent  reduction  in 
non-communicable  disease-related  deaths  by  2025. 
That will, no doubt, necessitate close collaboration and 
those  diseases 
addressing 
can  be 
current 
Again, 
trend 
the 
In 
If 
to 
that 
supporting 
is  fully  committed 
among  Governments, 
to  world  peace,  security, 
cooperation 
international 
organizations,  civil  society  and  the  private  sector  to 
facilitate access to medicines and healthy foods. Belize 
committed 
is 
initiative 
unconditionally. 

Belize is of the view that, given the quantum and 
scale  of  the  problems  which  confront  the  world  today 
and  the  unquestioned  need  for  an  ever-increasing 
amount  of  resources,  the  international  community 
cannot  afford  not  to  avail  itself  of  every  source  of 
assistance at hand. And in that regard, we wish to urge 
that  the  Republic  of  China,  Taiwan,  be  allowed  to 
participate  meaningfully  in  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations.  In  a  similar  vein,  we  would  urge  that  the 
embargo  against  Cuba,  which 
the  Assembly  has 
denounced for many years, be brought to a speedy end. 

Finally,  while  Belize  appreciates  the  limitations 
of  this  United  Nations,  we  also  appreciate  that  there 
exists  no  better  institution  than  this  one,  which  is 
dedicated 
justice  and 
development.  And  even  as  we  seek  its  reform,  we 
recognize its primacy in international affairs and global 
governance. I am, therefore, pleased to assure you that 
Belize 
this 
Organization, through it and with it as it carries out its 
mandates. 
The  President: I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 

Mr. Djibrill  Ypènè  Bassolé,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs and Regional Cooperation of Burkina Faso. 
Mr.  Bassolé  (Burkina  Faso)  (spoke  in  French): 

The  annual  general  debate  of  the  General  Assembly 
always  serves  as  an  opportunity  for  the  international 
community to consider the state of the world through a 
series of exchanges and thus combine innovative ideas 
to  support  our  desire  to  create  a  community  that  will 
ensure  a  better  future  for  all.  Burkina  Faso  always 
participates  in  this  meeting  of  the  world  partnership 
with great interest. 
Before  I  go  any  further,  please  allow  me, 

Mr. President, 
sincere  and  warm 
congratulations  from  the  Government  and  people  of 
Burkina Faso on your election to the presidency of the 
General Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session,  for  which 
you have chosen the theme of strengthening mediation 
as a means of preventing and settling conflicts. Burkina 
Faso  fully  supports  this  choice  and  is  committed  to 
sharing  with 
its 
experience  in  peace  negotiations,  particularly  with 
to  work  within 
to  offer  you 
international 
community 
the 
20 

11-51670 
I 
and 
salute 
experienced 
independence 


regard  to  the  role  of  mediator  for  the  Economic 
Community  of  West  African  States  (ECOWAS)  that 
President Blaise Compaoré played in settling the crises 
in Côte d’Ivoire and Guinea. 

I  would  also  like  to  commend  your  predecessor, 
Mr.  Joseph  Deiss,  on  the  efficiency  with  which  he 
guided  the  work  of  the  sixty-fifth  session.  And  I 
congratulate  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  on  his 
successful  reappointment  to  the  leadership  of  the 
United  Nations.  I  wish  him  health  and  every  success 
for his second term. 
the  Republic  of  South  Sudan’s 

achievement  of 
international 
sovereignty, and welcome it to the great family that is 
the  United  Nations. The  Government  of  Burkina  Faso 
offers its sincere and willing cooperation to the South 
Sudanese people and authorities. 

Much  has  happened  since  our  last  session  to 
affect  the  development  of  the  world  and  our  States. 
Some  countries  have  been  victims  of  natural 
catastrophe;  others  have 
financial, 
political and social crises. At the beginning of the year 
my country, Burkina Faso, also had to deal with social 
demands  arising  from 
the  difficult  national  and 
economic situation. Fortunately, those demands, which 
were  followed  by  social  unrest,  were  resolved,  thanks 
to  a  sustained  and  inclusive  dialogue  initiated  by 
President Compaoré. This dialogue, involving all of the 
country’s  social  classes,  enabled  the  Government  to 
conduct  an  exchange  of  views  with  every  element  of 
our society on their concerns, with the aim of arriving 
at suitable solutions. 

Furthermore,  the  Government  of  Burkina  Faso, 
within the framework of strengthening the rule of law 
and  improving  and  reinforcing  our  system  of  political 
and  institutional  governance,  established  an  advisory 
council  for  political  reform  aimed  at  continuing  with 
the  political  and  institutional  reforms  that  began 
several years ago. In the economic and social areas, as 
part  of  our  accelerated  growth  and  sustainable 
development  strategy,  my  Government,  despite  its 
modest  budget  and  many  other  constraints  and 
priorities,  continued  its  efforts  to  build  a  functioning 
economy,  with  a  particular  emphasis  on  strengthening 
certain key sectors, including education, health, water, 
training  and  youth  employment;  on 
improving 
socio-economic infrastructure, especially roads; and on 
encouraging the business environment. 
A/66/PV.28
At 
in  Africa,  we  are  convinced 
the  subregional  and  continental 

Needless to say, this progress was made possible 
thanks  to  the  cooperation  and  support  of  our  bilateral 
and  multilateral  partners.  I  take  this  opportunity  to 
acknowledge  and  thank  them  for  their  continuing 
commitment to supporting us and for their backing for 
our  efforts  to  meet  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. 

levels, 
Burkina  Faso,  working  within  the  framework  of  the 
West  African  Economic  and  Monetary  Union, 
ECOWAS  and  the African  Union,  will  continue  to  be 
constructively involved in strengthening the integration 
process.  While  we  proclaim  our  faith  and  deep 
attachment  to  the  regional  integration  process  taking 
place 
that  regional 
integration  must  be  pragmatic  and  based  on  concrete 
achievements,  which  represent  the  only  way  we  can 
realize  our  peoples’  legitimate  aspirations.  At  the 
regional  level,  we  recognize  the  value  of  all  the 
initiatives that the African Union has taken to manage 
and  settle  conflicts  on  our  continent.  Burkina  Faso 
reaffirms  its  continuing  readiness  to  contribute  to 
maintaining  peace,  security  and  stability  all  over 
Africa. 

The  world  is  currently  experiencing  times  of 
enormous  uncertainty  and  anxiety  as  a  result  of 
international  economic  and 
instability, 
increased  poverty,  continuing  deterioration  of  the 
environment  and  a  growing  number  of  natural 
disasters. 
international 
financial  crises  are  dangerously  compromising  the 
balance  of  our  economies  and  putting  our  social 
cohesion  to  a  terrible  test.  They  demand  a  response, 
constant vigilance and firm solidarity on all our parts. 

The  harmful  effects  of  climate  change  have 
spared no country; natural disasters, in particular, have 
compromised 
foundations  of 
development  for  many  of  us,  especially  the  least-
developed  countries,  which  are  especially  vulnerable 
and  suffer  the  most.  In  tackling  this  scourge,  special 
attention  and  renewed  effort  on  the  part  of  the 
international  community are more necessary than ever 
in  regard  to  climate  issues,  as  well  as  every  other 
environmental  concern.  Among  other 
initiatives, 
Burkina  Faso  commends  that  of  Mrs.  Hilary  Clinton, 
Secretary of  State of the  United States, for the Global 
Alliance  for  Clean  Cookstoves,  from  which  countries 
such as Burkina Faso could benefit greatly. 
In  particular, 
financial 
shaken 
and 
the 
recent 
the 
11-51670 

21 
the  Organization’s 
establishment 
from  Their  Utilization 
to 
for  pro-women  policies 
the  Nagoya  Protocol  on  Access 
theme  “Addressing  desertification, 
A/66/PV.28 

The  High-level  Meeting  held  during  this  session 

on 
the 
land 
degradation  and  drought  in  the  context  of  sustainable 
development  and  poverty  eradication”,  as  well  as  the 
signing  by  various  countries,  including  Burkina  Faso, 
of 
to  Genetic 
Resources  and  the  Fair  and  Equitable  Sharing  of 
Benefits  Arising 
the 
Convention  on  Biological  Diversity,  are  also  events 
worthy of commendation. 

Burkina Faso considers particularly important all 
issues connected to the advancement of women and, to 
that end, has spared no effort to improve the social and 
legal  status  of  women  in  our  country.  We  therefore 
commend 
of 
UN-Women,  and  hope  that  this  new  body,  which 
should be adequately funded, will be a genuine catalyst 
for  United  Nations  activities  in  defence  of  women’s 
rights.  More  specifically,  we  hope  it  will  provide 
strengthened  support 
in 
developing  countries.  We  are  pleased  that  during  this 
session  the African  Group  will  be  introducing  a  draft 
resolution  intended  to  ban  female  genital  mutilation 
worldwide.  We  hope  that  it  will  be  supported  by  the 
entire international community. 

For more than a decade we have been working on 
the process of reforming the United Nations in order to 
enable it to be in step with the demands of a world in 
constant  change.  Unfortunately,  despite  significant 
progress, much still remains to be done. Burkina Faso 
believes  that  the  reforms  must  take  into  account  the 
interests  of  all  Member  States  and  increase  our 
Organization’s effectiveness in managing the peace and 
security, stability and development of all parties. 

At  the  dawn  of  the  third  millennium,  our  hope 
and  wish  was  that  this  millennium  would  see  us 
reconcile  with  one  another  and  bring  peace,  security 
and  stability.  Sadly,  our  planet  is  still  beset  by 
numerous  conflicts,  many  of  which  bear  the  mark  of 
international terrorism, which, needless to say, Burkina 
Faso 
forms  and 
manifestations.  That  is  why  Burkina  Faso,  which 
fervently  advocates  for  the  prevention  and  settlement 
of  conflicts  through  dialogue,  commends  the  adoption 
by  the  General  Assembly  of  resolution  65/283  on 
strengthening 
in  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  and  conflict  prevention  and 
resolution.  We  are  pleased  that  that  resolution  was 
the  role  of  mediation 
firmly  condemns 
in  all 
its 

to 
thank 
introduced  by  the  Group  of  Friends  of  Mediation,  of 
which Burkina Faso is a member. 

As  we  did  in  Guinea,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Togo  and 
Darfur,  Burkina  Faso  is  fully  prepared  to  contribute 
wherever it is called upon for mediation, peacekeeping 
and  peacebuilding.  The  organization  of  free  and 
transparent elections in Guinea and Côte d’Ivoire came 
as  a  result  of  the  successful  facilitation  efforts  of 
Mr. Blaise Compaoré, President of Burkina Faso. 

The  Ouagadougou  Political  Agreement  allowed 
Côte d’Ivoire to emerge from crisis. What it needs now 
is  peacebuilding  and  reconciliation.  We  take  this 
opportunity 
the  Secretary-General,  who 
effectively  supported  the  efforts  of  ECOWAS  and  the 
inter-Ivorian  dialogue  facilitator.  Beyond  facilitation, 
we are prepared to assist all countries in our subregion 
in  their  quest  for  peace  and  stability  in  post-conflict 
situations.  We  call  on  the  international  community  to 
support  peacebuilding  efforts,  especially 
in  Côte 
d’Ivoire and Guinea.  

Burkina  Faso  participates  in  the  African  Union-
United  Nations  Hybrid  Operation  in  Darfur,  with  a 
force of 800 men. The signing on 14 July 2011 of the 
Doha  Document  for  Peace  in  Darfur  between  the 
Government  of  the  Sudan  and  the  Liberation  and 
Justice  Movement 
represents  significant  progress 
towards restoring lasting peace. 

Thanks  to  the  trust  placed  in  us  by  the  African 
Union and the United Nations we were able to support 
the  peace  process,  and  we  call  on  all  parties  to  the 
conflict  to  sign  the  Doha  Document.  We  express  our 
recognition  and  profound  gratitude  to  the  Emir  of 
Qatar,  His  Highness  Sheikh  Hamad  bin  Khalifa 
Al-Thani,  for  his  support,  which  was  critical  to  the 
success of the process. 

In the framework of the Implementation Follow-
up Committee, my country will continue to contribute 
to  peacebuilding.  We  call  on  the  Justice  and  Equality 
Movement,  the  Sudan  Liberation  Movement  and  the 
Government  of  the  Sudan  to  bring  hostilities  to  a 
complete halt in Darfur as soon as possible. 

In  North  Africa  a  will  for  change  has  found 
expression  in Tunisia,  Egypt  and  Libya.  Burkina  Faso 
expresses  its  solidarity  with  those  countries  in  their 
quest for freedom and democracy. We reiterate our will 
to  strengthen  fruitful  links  of  cooperation.  Burkina 
Faso  reaffirms  its  recognition  of  the  Transitional 
22 

11-51670 
right 
to  self-determination  of 


National  Council  in  Libya,  and  we  encourage  it  to 
continue  to  promote  democracy,  national  cohesion, 
stability and security for all people living in Libya.  

In the Middle East we closely follow the progress 
of the Palestinian question, and we support Palestine’s 
request  to  be  admitted  to  the  United  Nations  as  a  full 
Member  State.  We  reiterate  our  call  for  a  lasting, 
comprehensive peace in the region that guarantees the 
freedom  and 
the 
Palestinian  people  and  the  security  of  the  State  of 
Israel. 

Burkina  Faso  believes  in  multilateralism,  in 
solidarity among peoples and in the virtue of dialogue 
among  nations.  My  delegation  notes  with  great 
satisfaction the peaceful climate that currently prevails 
in  the  relationship  between  the  Republic  of  China  on 
Taiwan  and  the  People’s  Republic  of  China. That  will 
favour the granting to the Republic of China on Taiwan 
the  place  that  it  deserves  in  the  concert  of  nations, 
including  its  genuine  participation  in  the  activities  of 
international  organizations  such  as  the  International 
Civil  Aviation  Organization  and  conferences  such  as 
those  on 
the  United  Nations  Climate  Change 
Convention.  

In conclusion, I wish to express the desire that the 
virtues  of  international  solidarity  and  dialogue  among 
nations  will  continue  to  inspire  the  United  Nations, 
which is the pre-eminent forum for multilateralism, so 
that together we can respond to the challenges that our 
world faces. 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 

Mr. Wunna  Maung  Lwin,  Minister  for  Foreign Affairs 
of the Republic of the Union of Myanmar. 
Mr.  Lwin  (Myanmar):  Allow  me  to  extend  our 

congratulations  to  Mr.  Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser  on 
his  assumption  of  the  Presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-sixth session. I am confident that 
with  his  wide  knowledge,  experience  and  diplomatic 
skills, we will be able to achieve fruitful results in our 
deliberations in addressing important and critical issues 
on the international agenda. 

I  would  also  like  to  convey  our  appreciation  to 
Mr. Joseph  Deiss 
leadership  and 
contributions  to  the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly.  May  I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  once 
again  extend  our  congratulations  to  the  Secretary-
General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his reappointment, and 
for  his  able 
A/66/PV.28
in  accordance  with 
we wish to express our sincere appreciation to him for 
his dedication and untiring efforts for the cause of the 
United Nations. 

Since  I  am  addressing  the  General Assembly  for 
the first time after the emergence of the constitutional 
Government and as the Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
the Republic of the Union of Myanmar, I would like to 
apprise  the  Assembly  of  recent  developments  and 
significant  changes  taking  place  in  my  country.  The 
Republic  of  the  Union  of  Myanmar  has  emerged  as  a 
new  democratic  nation 
the 
Constitution  approved  by  the  overwhelming  majority 
of the people.  

Multiparty  democratic  general  elections  were 
held  in  Myanmar  in  November  2010  in  line  with  the 
seven-step  roadmap.  Thirty-seven  political  parties, 
including  19  parties  from  different  national  ethnic 
groups,  contested  in  the  elections.  Today,  elected 
representatives are exercising their democratic rights in 
the legislative bodies. 

The President, in his inaugural speech to the first 
regular session of the Pyidaungsu Hluttaw on 30 March 
2011,  stated 
that  all  elected  Hluttaw  members, 
including the President, are duty-bound to honour and 
safeguard  the  Constitution  of  the  Republic  of  the 
Union of Myanmar. The new Government pledged that 
all citizens shall enjoy equal rights under the law and is 
determined 
judiciary.  The 
Government also assured the nation that it will amend 
and  revoke  existing  laws  and  adopt  new  laws  as  may 
be  deemed  necessary  to  implement  the  provisions  of 
the fundamental rights of the citizens. 

With  a  view  to  maintaining  and  promoting 
friendly  relations  with  all  countries  in  the  world, 
Myanmar 
international 
community.  In  the  past  five  months,  Myanmar  has 
received  the  visits  of  State  leaders  and  high-level 
delegations from our neighbouring countries, as well as 
from  other  regions  and  international  organizations.  In 
return,  President  Thein  Sein  paid  official  visits  to  the 
Republic  of  Indonesia  and  the  People’s  Republic  of 
China.  The  President  also  attended  the  eighteenth 
summit  of  the Association  of  Southeast Asian  Nations 
(ASEAN) in Jakarta. 

The  new  Government  has  launched  a  series  of 
economic,  social  and  policy  reforms  designed  to 
improve  the  socio-economic  life  of  the  people  of 
Myanmar. One of those measures is the stepping up of 
reaching  out 
strengthen 
to 
the 
to 
the 
is 
11-51670 

23 
in 
turn 
promote 
opportunities, 
A/66/PV.28 

its efforts to reduce poverty. In Myanmar, about 70 per 
cent  of  the  population  resides  in  rural  areas  and 
engages in agricultural and livestock farming. In order 
to  boost  production  and  enhance 
the  economic 
development  of  rural  areas,  the  Government  has 
adopted  forward-looking  economic  policies.  Those 
policies will lead to sustained, inclusive and equitable 
economic  growth,  which  will 
increase 
employment 
agriculture 
development and reduce poverty.  

Towards  that  end,  the  new  Government  has 
adopted  the  National  Rural  Development  and  Poverty 
Reduction Plan to alleviate poverty and to improve the 
livelihood  of  people  residing  in  rural  areas. A  central 
committee  and  various  work  committees  have  been 
formed  to supplement the  eight tasks laid down under 
the  National  Plan.  Furthermore,  the  new  Government 
has  increased  pension  allowances  for  retired  service 
personnel  commensurate  with  the  changing  economic 
and  social  conditions  of  the  country.  With  a  view  to 
encouraging foreign trade, the Government reduced the 
export  tax  from  8  per  cent  to  2  per  cent  and  granted 
export  tax  exemptions  for  all  agricultural  and  timber 
products. 

It  is  regrettable  that  the  Government’s  efforts  to 
improve  the  livelihood  of  the  people  of  Myanmar  are 
being  hampered  by  economic  sanctions.  I  would 
therefore like to call upon countries that have imposed 
unilateral  sanctions  on  my  country 
those 
restrictions.  It  will  also  contribute  to  our  efforts  to 
achieve  our  Millennium  Development  Goal  (MDG) 
targets. 

the 
promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights.  The 
the  country’s  citizens  are 
fundamental  rights  of 
guaranteed  by 
the  State 
Constitution.  With  a  view 
to  promoting  and 
safeguarding  the  fundamental  rights  of  its  citizens  as 
set  forth  in  the  Constitution,  the  Myanmar  National 
Human  Rights  Commission  was 
on 
5 September 2011. 

Myanmar’s  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations 
has  been  clearly  demonstrated  by  the  Government’s 
acceptance  of  the  fourth  visit  of  Mr.  Tomás  Ojea 
Quintana,  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  situation  of 
human 
in  August  2011. 
Mr. Quintana recognized and welcomed the steps taken 
by  the  Government  to  improve  the  human  rights 
Myanmar  attaches  great 
relevant  provisions  of 
in  Myanmar 
importance 
formed 
to 
lift 
to 

in 
and 
the  country.  He  also  welcomed 
situation 
the 
Government’s  stated  commitments  to  reform  and  the 
priorities set forth by the President. 

Myanmar  has  been  cooperating  closely  with  the 
United  Nations  Human  Rights  Council.  Myanmar’s 
Universal Periodic Review (UPR) report was submitted 
and reviewed by the UPR Working Group last January 
and  adopted  at  the  seventeenth  session  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  last  June.  Myanmar  has  agreed  to 
accept 52.4 per cent of the total recommendations. We 
strongly  believe  that  the  UPR  process  is  the  most 
dependable 
non-controversial  monitoring 
mechanism  for  addressing  and  rectifying  the  human 
rights situations of all countries. 

As  for  national  reconciliation,  the  Government 
offered an olive branch to all the ethnic armed groups 
in  the  country  through  Announcement  No.  1/2011  on 
18 August, and some of those groups have accepted the 
Government’s  offer.  The  Government  also  granted  an 
amnesty on 16 May 2011, with 20,000 inmates having 
been  released  by  the  end  of  July.  I  would  like  to  take 
this  opportunity  to  inform  the  General  Assembly  that 
the President, in exercising the mandate vested in him 
by the Constitution, will grant a further amnesty at an 
appropriate time in the near future. 
The President invited people to work together for 

the 
interest  of 
the  nation  despite  differences. 
Accordingly,  he  received  Daw Aung  San  Suu  Kyi  on 
19  August  2011,  and,  putting  aside  differing  views, 
they had candid and cordial discussions with a view to 
finding  common  ground  and  exploring  a  potential 
cooperation in the interest of the nation and its people. 

The  foregoing  are  some  of  the  significant  items 
of  progress  we  have  achieved  in  our  democratization 
process. 

As an agro-based country, Myanmar is following 
with  keen  interest  the  issues  involving  the  effects  of 
climate  change.  Since  agriculture  is  highly  dependent 
on 
the  climatic 
situation  on  agriculture  cannot  be  ignored.  Lately, 
floods  and  droughts  have  devastated  crops  and 
agricultural production in our region. It is evident that 
developing  countries  are  the  most  vulnerable  and  will 
therefore be the first to suffer from global warming and 
climate change. 

We  therefore  look  forward  to  reaching  tangible 
outcomes  at  the  upcoming  seventeenth  Conference  of 
implications  of 
the  climate, 
the 
rights 
24 

11-51670 
to 
to 
namely, 
economic 
development, 


the  United  Nations  Framework 
the  Parties 
Convention  on  Climate  Change  and 
the  seventh 
Session of the Conference of the Parties serving as the 
meeting of the Parties to the Kyoto Protocol in Durban, 
South  Africa.  Although  the  road  to  Durban  will  be  a 
difficult  one,  my  delegation  shares  the  view  that  our 
discussions  on  the  issue  should  be  placed  within  the 
context  of  promoting  sustainable  development.  In  that 
regard,  we  would  also  like  to  stress  that  all  three 
pillars, 
social 
development and environmental protection, need to be 
promoted  in  an  integrated,  coordinated  and  balanced 
manner. 

Myanmar  strongly  condemns  terrorism  in  all  its 
forms  and  manifestations.  In  today’s  world,  terrorism 
and  transnational  organized  crime  are  increasingly 
threatening  human  society.  Myanmar  is  also  among 
those countries that have been victim of the scourge of 
terrorism. In that regard, we would like to express our 
deepest  condolences 
the  bereaved  families  of 
victims of terrorism around the world. We welcome the 
Secretary-General’s  commitment 
to  conducting  a 
global  threat  review  in  order  to  re-assess  security 
threats  in  the  wake  of  the  deadly  attack  in  Abuja, 
Nigeria.  Myanmar  stands  ready  to  cooperate  at  the 
regional and international levels to prevent and combat 
terrorism  and  transnational  organized  crimes.  Without 
a 
sustainable 
development would not be possible for the people of a 
country or in a region and beyond. 

The  Millennium  Declaration  set  2015  as  the 
target date for achieving the Millennium Development 
Goals,  which  were  formulated  to  address  the  welfare 
and  needs  of  people  around  the  world.  Despite  some 
progress,  development  efforts  have  been  hindered  by 
various  factors,  such  as  slow  economic  growth, 
diminishing  resources,  increasing  food  prices  and 
ongoing  concern  over  food  security, 
increasingly 
frequent  natural  disasters  and  the  challenges  posed  by 
climate  change.  Each  country  has 
the  primary 
responsibility  to  generate  its  ways  and  means  for 
achieving social and economic development. However, 
national efforts to that end need to be supported by the 
international community. 

For our part, Myanmar is determined to promote 
better  living  standards  and  the  equitable  development 
of 
income,  microfinance 
schemes  have  been  introduced  at  the  grassroots  level. 
the  United  Nations  Development 
According 
stable  and  peaceful  environment, 
its  people.  To  generate 
to 
A/66/PV.28
in 
rate 
the  poverty 
Programme, 
in  Myanmar  has 
decreased  from  32  per  cent  to  26  per  cent  in  recent 
years.  However,  we  have  to  redouble  our  efforts  to 
achieve MDG 1 by the year 2015. 

The  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  is  the  cornerstone  of  international  efforts  to 
prevent  the  proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons,  promote 
nuclear  disarmament  and  cooperation,  and  ensure 
access to nuclear energy. As a signatory to the Treaty, 
Myanmar remains committed to the three pillars of the 
treaty.  As  a  strong  advocate  of  nuclear  disarmament, 
Myanmar has been tabling a draft resolution on nuclear 
disarmament every year since 1995, one which enjoys 
wide  support  from  Member  States.  Myanmar  firmly 
opposes  the  proliferation  and  production  of  nuclear 
weapons  and  strongly  supports  any  efforts  leading  to 
the realization of a world  free of the threat of nuclear 
weapons and their by-products. 

Recently,  the  world  around  us  has  changed.  We 
have  seen  changes  in  Governments  and  political 
landscapes.  Myanmar  has  transformed  and  is  moving 
towards becoming a democratic nation in a smooth and 
peaceful manner. We have now embarked on a series of 
reforms 
about 
democratization  and  economic  development  and 
improve the lives of our people. 

The steps taken by the Government of  Myanmar 
are  concrete,  visible  and  irreversible.  We  will  ensure 
that  the  reform  process  is  incremental,  systematic  and 
dynamic. Myanmar is strongly determined to continue 
implementing  the  democratization  process  despite  all 
of  the  current  challenges. At  this  critical  juncture,  the 
encouragement,  understanding  and  support  of  the 
international  community  are  crucial  to  Myanmar’s 
transition to democracy. 
The  President: I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 

Mr. Pham  Binh  Minh,  Minister  for  Foreign Affairs  of 
the Socialist Republic of Viet Nam. 
Mr. Pham Binh Minh (Viet Nam): On behalf of 

the Vietnamese delegation, I wish to congratulate you, 
Sir,  on  your  unanimous  election  as  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session.  I  am 
confident  that  your  diplomatic  skills  and  experience 
will  help  to  ensure  the  great  success  of  the  current 
session. I would like to take this opportunity to express 
my  deep  appreciation  to  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss  for  his 
significant contributions to the fruitful outcome of the 
sixty-fifth session. 
various 
sectors 
bring 
to 
11-51670 

25 

crime, 
pandemics, 
transnational 
rising  protectionism,  dwindling 
the  Republic  of  South  Sudan  as 
the  cooperation  of  Member  countries, 
The  Vietnamese  delegation  also  wishes 
A/66/PV.28 


to 
congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  on  his 
reappointment  as  Secretary-General.  We  believe  that, 
with 
the 
Secretary-General will make ever greater contributions 
to  the  operations  of  the  United  Nations  and,  thus,  to 
global  peace  and  development.  We  most  warmly 
welcome 
the 
193rd Member of the Organization. 

Today,  peace,  cooperation  and  development 
remain  the  over-arching  themes  of  our  time.  Yet 
tensions  and  conflicts  persist  in  most  continents  and 
regions, owing to unresolved differences within nations 
and the threat and use of force. Climate change, natural 
disasters, 
the 
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and 
international  terrorism  are  still  the  challenges  that 
demand  effective  responses.  The  world  economy’s 
unstable  recovery,  coupled  with  economic  downturns 
in  many  developed  nations,  has  exposed  developing 
countries  to  the  risks  of  even  more  unequal  terms  of 
trade, 
financial 
resources  and  the  erosion  of  gains  relating  to  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  Multilateral 
negotiations  on  issues  of  common  interest,  such  as 
disarmament  and  climate  change,  have  not  yielded 
results that meet our expectations. 
The current situation compels nations to promote 

dialogue  and  cooperation  so  as  to  surmount  common 
challenges,  man-made  and  natural  alike.  Peace, 
security  and  stability  remain  the  intense  desire  of  all 
nations and are prerequisites for development. The key 
to success lies in each nation’s own efforts, as well as 
in 
and 
multilateralism  based  on  respect  for  the  fundamental 
principles  of  international  law  and  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  while 
the 
legitimate 
interests  of  all  countries,  especially 
developing  ones.  In  that  regard,  Viet  Nam  commends 
you,  Mr.  President,  on  the  theme  that  you  have 
proposed  for  the  general  debate,  namely,  the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes. 

As  rightly  pointed  out  by  the  Secretary-General, 
never  has  the  United  Nations  been  so  relevant  and  so 
urgently needed by  so many people  around the  world. 
It  must  deliver  concrete  results  that  make  a  real 
difference in the daily lives of the world’s people. With 
its 
the  Organization 
undoubtedly  enjoys  a  unique  legitimacy  and  should 
universal  membership, 
taking 
into  account 
enhanced 
international 
cooperation 
including 
the  MDGs; 
thus  be  at  the  forefront  of  global  governance  and 
multilateral cooperation. 

Over  the  past  several  years,  the  United  Nations 
has  played  a  crucial  role  in  ending  conflicts  and 
promoting  peace  processes  in  various  regions.  We 
deeply value the initiatives that place the needs of the 
poorest  and  most  vulnerable  at  the  centre  of  the 
international  agenda,  as  well  as  initiatives  to  mobilize 
resources and capacities to fulfil internationally agreed 
action  plans, 
facilitate 
multilateral negotiations on climate change, as well as 
on  disarmament  and  the  non-proliferation  of  weapons 
of mass destruction; provide solutions to such pressing 
issues  as  desertification,  non-communicable  diseases, 
nuclear  safety  and  security;  and  respond  to  the  global 
financial  and  economic  crisis.  We  cannot  help 
mentioning  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  funds, 
programmes  and  specialized  agencies  to  establish 
norms  and  set  agendas  in  accordance  with  their 
mandates,  so  as  to  assist  developing  countries  in  their 
development endeavours. 

At  the  same  time,  the  international  community 
looks to the Organization as a source of inspiration and 
strength,  as  a  universal  organization  that  can  act 
decisively to counter any tendency that may undermine 
its credibility or contradict its fundamental values and 
founding purposes and principles. The Organization is 
therefore  expected  to  uphold  the  values  of  peace  and 
security,  international  law  and  multilateralism.  It  is 
also expected to become more responsive and effective 
on  the  ground,  with  the  ultimate  objective  of  better 
serving  the  needs  and  interests  of  Member  States,  in 
particular the developing countries. 
As  world  peace  and  security  are  always  our  top 

priority, 
its 
concerted and coherent efforts to promote the peaceful 
settlement  of  civil  wars  and  local  conflicts  in  various 
regions  of  the  world,  especially  those  in  North Africa 
and  the  Middle  East,  while  preventing  others  from 
erupting.  

We must cultivate a culture of peace and dialogue 
and promote the peaceful settlement of disputes. In that 
regard, Viet  Nam  supports  efforts  to  end  violence  and 
strengthen national reconstruction and reconciliation in 
Afghanistan 
regards  Palestine’s 
application  for  full  membership  in  the  United  Nations 
Organization,  Viet  Nam  wishes  to  underline  the  fact 
that  we  recognized  the  State  of  Palestine  in  1988. We 
the  United  Nations  should  continue 
Iraq.  As 
and 
26 

11-51670 
In 
security 
concerns, 
the 
their 
inalienable 
parallel  with 
just  struggle  of 


the 
have  always  supported 
Palestinian  people 
rights, 
for 
including  the  right  to  establish  an  independent  and 
sovereign  State  that  coexists  peacefully  with  Israel 
with the pre-June 1967 borders. In that spirit, we affirm 
our  strong  support  for  Palestine’s  efforts  to  soon 
become a full United Nations Member. 

We support United Nations efforts to translate the 
outcomes  of  the  2010  Review  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons  and  the  recently  concluded  High-
level  Meeting  on  nuclear  safety  and  security  into 
concrete  results.  We  also  support  the  Organization’s 
efforts  to  revitalize  the  work  of  the  Conference  on 
Disarmament  and  move  multilateral  disarmament 
negotiations forwards. 

the 
international  community,  with  the  United  Nations  at 
the  centre,  should  work  for  more  equal  international 
relations, a fairer international economic and financial 
architecture  and  more  just  institutions.  Developing 
countries  must  have  a  greater  role  and  say 
in 
international  governance.  They  should  be  enabled  to 
take  part  in  the  globalization  process  in  a  more 
proactive  and  effective  manner.  Developed  countries, 
for  their  part,  should  deliver  on  their  obligations  and 
commitments, 
of 
macroeconomic stability, contribution to the successful 
conclusion  of  the  Doha  Round,  the  elimination  of 
unfair  trade  measures  and  an  increase  in  development 
assistance.  

Given the continued need to draw on the thinking 
and  action  towards  a  more  stable  and  healthy  global 
economic environment, we wish to recommend that the 
United  Nations  convene  a  meeting  in  the  General 
Assembly  or  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  to 
follow up the Outcome of the Conference on the World 
Financial  and  Economic  Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on 
Development  (resolution  63/303),  which  was  held  in 
June 2009. 

In  the  meantime,  the  United  Nations  should 
undertake  measures  to  prevent  the  unilateral  use  of 
economic  means  against  developing  countries.  Viet 
Nam strongly calls for an end to the economic embargo 
against the Republic of Cuba. 

Moreover,  to  promote  inclusive  and  sustainable 
development,  political  commitment  and  efforts,  with 
the  central  coordinating  role  played  by  the  United 
the  maintenance 
including 
A/66/PV.28
in 
principal 
deliberative, 
policymaking 
the  global  partnership 
the  fruitful  outcomes  of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
Nations,  must  be  doubled  for 
the  attainment  of 
equitable  and  sustainable  development  for  all.  Four 
years from the agreed target date of 2015, it is essential 
that 
for  development  be 
expanded, both in breadth  and depth, so as to provide 
countries  in  need  with  relevant  policy  experience, 
resources and best practices to achieve the MDGs and 
maintain the process thereof.  

Equally important is to begin developing a vision 
for  a  global  development  platform  for  the  post-2015 
period.  We  must  also  work  much  harder  together  to 
ensure 
the  forthcoming 
seventeenth session of the Conference of Parties to the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change  in  South  Africa  and  the  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development in Brazil. 

Viet  Nam  is  committed  to  working  with  other 
Member  States  to  revitalize  the  General  Assembly  as 
the 
and 
representative  organ,  to  enhance  the  overarching  role 
of 
the 
development  sphere,  and  to  enlarge  Security  Council 
membership and improve its working methods. We also 
look forward to more coherent, consistent and effective 
development activities of the United Nations system so 
as to align them effectively with the national priorities 
of  recipient  countries.  In  an  effort  to  contribute  to 
United  Nations  reforms,  Viet  Nam  has  been  active  in 
implementing  the  Delivering  as  One  initiative  and, 
together  with  the  United  Nations  and  other  partners, 
has made tangible progress. 

Viet  Nam  welcomes  the  adoption  of  resolution 
65/281 on the review of the Human Rights Council. We 
wish  to  stress  that  the  operation  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council  and  other  United  Nations  human  rights 
mechanisms should continue to be improved in order to 
become  more  effective,  consistent  and  efficient,  while 
focusing more on dialogue and experience-sharing. To 
further  contribute  to  that  end,  we  have  presented Viet 
Nam’s  candidature  for  membership  of  the  Human 
Rights Council for the term 2013-2016. 
The year 2011 is important for Viet Nam since we 

have 
the  eleventh  party 
congress  and  the  elections  of  State  bodies.  We  have 
also  adopted  a  socio-economic  development  strategy 
for  the  next  decade.  During  the  past  25  years  of 
comprehensive renewal, Viet Nam has made significant 
achievements  in  many  aspects  and  the  country  has 
successfully  organized 
11-51670 

27 

A/66/PV.28 

integrated  extensively  into  international  life.  We  have 
managed  to  establish  and  strengthen  stable  and  long-
term frameworks of relations with major countries and 
global and regional economic and political centres.  

Building  on  those  achievements,  in  the  coming 
period,  Viet  Nam  is  determined  to  comprehensively 
step  up  the  renewal  process,  with  higher  quality  and 
effectiveness,  as  well  as  national  industrialization  and 
modernization, in combination with the development of 
a knowledge-based economy. 
In  an  effort  to  broaden  and  deepen  our  relations 

with  other  countries,  Viet  Nam  will  continue  an 
independent  foreign  policy  for  peace,  cooperation  and 
development. Viet Nam is a reliable friend and partner, 
as  well  as  a  responsible  member  of  the  international 
community, working for the prosperity of every nation, 
national  independence,  global  peace,  democracy  and 
social progress.  
We  shall  enhance  international  integration  and 

proactively  participate  in  and  contribute  to  regional 
and  international  multilateral  forums,  such  as  the 
United  Nations,  the  Asia-Europe  Meeting,  the  Asia-
Pacific  Economic  Cooperation, 
the  Non-Aligned 
Movement and the Group of 77 and China, on solving 
global issues of nuclear security, nuclear disarmament, 
crime 
sustainable 
development and cooperation on the Mekong River.  

Furthermore, we are always willing to share with 
other  countries  our  experiences  in  South-South  and 
tripartite  cooperation, 
for  development, 
enhancing  aid  effectiveness  and  mainstreaming  the 
MDGs into national socio-economic strategies. 

We shall work closely with the other members of 
the Association  of  Southeast Asian  Nations  (ASEAN) 
and other stakeholders for peace, stability, cooperation 
and  development  in  South-East  Asia,  East  Asia  and 
beyond 
and 
instruments,  such  as 
the  Treaty  of  Amity  and 
Cooperation  in  Southeast  Asia,  the  South-East  Asia 
Nuclear-Weapon-Free-Zone, 
the  ASEAN  Regional 
Forum and the East Asia Summit. 

In  that  regard, Viet  Nam  welcomes  and  supports 
contributions to peace and security in the Eastern Sea. 
Like  other  ASEAN  members,  Viet  Nam  is  strongly 
to  dialogue  and  confidence-building 
committed 
mechanisms  and 
support  and 
participate in any effort to find peaceful settlements to 
through  ASEAN-led  mechanisms 
prevention, 
financing 
change, 
climate 
stands 
ready 
to 
international 
in  accordance  with 
the  parties  concerned,  strictly  observe 
disputes, 
law, 
including  the  1982  United  Nations  Convention  on  the 
Law  of  the  Sea,  and  that  are  acceptable  to  all  parties 
concerned.  Pending  such  a  solution,  we  will,  along 
with 
the 
Declaration  on  the  Conduct  of  Parties  in  the  Eastern 
Sea.  We  welcome  the  stated  commitments  to  working 
together towards the conclusion of a code of conduct in 
the foreseeable future. 

This  year’s  session  of  the  General  Assembly  is 
taking place at a crucial juncture as the world is faced 
with daunting challenges. It is my firm belief that only 
by undertaking joint efforts and enhancing multilateral 
cooperation  could  we  meet 
the  expectations  and 
aspirations  of  our  peoples  and  manage  to  set  out  the 
right  direction  for  the  long-term  development  of  the 
United Nations. Viet Nam remains strongly committed 
to that endeavour. 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 

Mr. Elmar Mammadyarov, Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of the Republic of Azerbaijan. 
Mr. Mammadyarov (Azerbaijan): I would like to 

join  previous  speakers  in  congratulating  you,  Sir,  on 
your  election  as  President  of  General Assembly  at  the 
sixty-sixth session, and wish you every success in that 
highly  responsible  post.  I  thank  your  predecessor,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss,  for  his  productive  work 
during the last session. 

I also express my profound respect and gratitude 
to  the  Secretary-General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon, 
to 
revitalizing the United Nations Organization. 

With  regard  to  the  theme  of  this  year’s  general 
debate,  we  welcome  the  adoption  at  the  sixty-fifth 
session  of  resolution  65/283  on  strengthening  the  role 
of  mediation  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes, 
conflict  prevention  and  resolution.  In  that  document, 
the General Assembly reiterated that all Member States 
should strictly adhere to their obligations, as laid down 
in  the  United  Nations  Charter,  and  reaffirmed,  inter 
alia, 
the  sovereignty, 
territorial  integrity  and  political  independence  of  all 
States. 

Azerbaijan looks forward to the relevant guidance 
for  more  effective  mediation,  as  indicated  in  the 
resolution,  and  we  are  ready  to  actively  contribute  to 
its  elaboration.  Unfortunately,  we  have  to  admit  that 
leadership  and  dedication 
the  commitment 
to  respect 
for  his 
28 

11-51670 


not  all  States  approach  their  international  obligations 
responsibly  and  comply  with  the  generally  accepted 
norms and principles of international law. 

For  almost  two  decades,  we  have  witnessed  the 
flagrant  violation  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and 
other  documents  of  international  law  by  the  Republic 
of Armenia,  which  has  perpetrated  aggression  against 
the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the Republic 
of  Azerbaijan.  As  a  result  of  that  aggression,  almost 
20 per cent of the territory of Azerbaijan remains under 
occupation  and  about  1  million  Azerbaijani  refugees 
and internally displaced persons are unable to return to 
their homes. 

In  1993,  the  Security  Council  adopted  four 
resolutions  (resolutions  822  (1993),  853  (1993)  874 
(1993)  and  884  (1993))  demanding  the  immediate, 
complete  and  unconditional  withdrawal  of  Armenian 
forces  from  all  the  occupied  territories  of  Azerbaijan 
and reaffirmed the sovereignty, territorial integrity and 
inviolability  of  the  internationally  recognized  borders 
of  Azerbaijan.  The  same  appeals  were  made  also  by 
organizations.  Unfortunately, 
other 
international 
Armenia  continues 
to 
the 
international community. 

What  is  even  more  worrisome  is  that,  instead  of 
preparing  its  people  for  a  peaceful,  prosperous  and 
stable  future  in  friendship  and  cooperation  with  the 
neighbouring  countries,  the  leadership  of  Armenia 
continues  to  publicly  incite  the  future  generations  to 
new  wars,  violence  and  aggression  and  to  propagate, 
by  all  means,  the  dangerous  ideas  of  animosity  and 
hatred  towards  not  only  Azerbaijan,  but  also  other 
peoples of the region. 
Illegal  activities  in  the  occupied  territories  of 

implantation  of  ethnic 
Azerbaijan, 
Armenian  settlers,  as  well  as  the  destruction  and 
appropriation  of  historical  and  cultural  heritage, 
represent  another  source  of  serious  concern.  Such 
activities serve to further consolidate the current status 
quo  of  the  occupation,  securing  the  results  of  ethnic 
cleansing and colonization of the seized lands, as well 
as  to  seriously  hamper  the  prospects  for  conflict 
resolution.  Earlier  in  this  Hall,  we  heard  a  very 
aggressive  and  unconstructive  statement  by 
the 
President  of  Armenia.  He  openly  confirmed  that 
destructive policy of Armenia. (see A/66/PV.19) 

Minsk  Group  Co-Chairs  of 
The  Field Assessment  Mission  conducted  by  the 
the  Organization  for 
the  calls  of 
including 
ignore 
the 
A/66/PV.28
Security and Cooperation in Europe in October 2010 to 
the occupied territories of Azerbaijan, stated, inter alia, 
that the status quo of the occupation was unacceptable 
and urged Armenia to put an end to its illegal practices 
in those territories.  

As a country suffering from the occupation of its 
territories and the forcible displacement of hundreds of 
thousands  of  its  citizens,  Azerbaijan  is  the  most 
interested party in the earliest negotiated settlement of 
the  conflict.  Our  position  is  well  known  to  the 
international community. It is based on strict adherence 
to  the  norms  and  principles  of  international  law, 
according to which the acquisition of territory by force 
is  inadmissible  and  must  be  rejected  resolutely  and 
unconditionally. 

It  is  absolutely  illogical  that  the  leadership  of 
Armenia,  which  has  implemented  the  total  ethnic 
cleansing  of  not  only  the  occupied  territories  of 
Azerbaijan, but also of the Azerbaijani population in its 
own  territory,  is  trying  to  apply  the  principle  of  self-
determination.  It  is  obvious  that  one  cannot  expel 
peoples from their homes on ethnic grounds and, at the 
same  time,  speak  about  self-determination  for  those 
who remain on the same grounds. 

self-determination can be implemented only  

Azerbaijan recognizes that the right of peoples to 
“at all times in conformity with the purposes and 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
and with the relevant norms of international law, 
including  those  relating  to  territorial  integrity  of 
States”,  
is 
confident 
the 
the 
timetable, 
Azerbaijan 
followed  by 
as enshrined in the Helsinki Final Act. 

conflict 
that 
resolution must start with the withdrawal of Armenian 
armed  forces  from  the  occupied  territories,  within  the 
fixed 
restoration  of 
communications,  the  return  of  refugees  and  internally 
displaced  persons,  and  the  creation  of  conditions  for 
the  peaceful 
and 
Armenians in the Nagorno Karabakh region within the 
territorial  integrity  of  Azerbaijan.  That  step-by-step 
approach,  which  has  been  proposed  by  mediators  and 
supported  by  the  international  community,  except, 
unfortunately,  the  leadership  of  Armenia,  can  bring 
durable peace, stability and predictability to the region. 

Azerbaijan still maintains its interest, motivation 
and patience in that very hard and sensitive process of 
coexistence  of  Azerbaijanis 
11-51670 

29 
to 
the 
that 
the 
their  own 
live  within 
reiterate  our 
A/66/PV.28 

negotiations.  We  believe 
international 
community will convince the Armenian side to respect 
the  generally  accepted  norms  and  principles  of 
international  law  and  cease  abusing  the  right  of 
Azerbaijanis 
territories, 
including  the  Nagorno  Karabakh  region.  In  return,  we 
are ready to guarantee the highest level of self-rule for 
that region within the Republic of Azerbaijan. 
I  would  like  to  touch  upon  another  important 

issue  of 
international  agenda  —  Palestine. 
Azerbaijan  reaffirms  its  adherence  to  the  position 
expressed  by  the  majority  of  the  United  Nations 
Member  States.  We 
long-standing 
solidarity  with  the  people  and  leadership  of  Palestine, 
and  believe  that  the  time  has  come  to  reach  a 
breakthrough in that long-standing and very important 
issue.  The  time  has  come  for  Palestine  to  be  fully 
represented at the United Nations. 

Azerbaijan  is  determined  to  contribute  further  to 
the realization of the development goals and objectives 
agreed  within  the  United  Nations.  In  recent  years, 
Azerbaijan has enhanced its humanitarian assistance to 
support  international  and  national  efforts  aimed  at 
eradicating  poverty 
sustainable 
development  and  global  prosperity  for  all.  We  pay 
particular attention to addressing the special needs and 
vulnerabilities  of  developing  and 
least  developed 
countries,  as  well  as  those  recovering  from  natural 
disasters  and  suffering  from  climate  change, 
in 
particular small island States. 

The  recent  humanitarian  crisis  in  the  Horn  of 
Africa  once  again  demonstrated  the  importance  of 
global solidarity. Azerbaijan has provided urgent aid to 
support  the  ongoing  efforts  towards  the  eradication  of 
famine in that region. The Government of Azerbaijan is 
currently considering additional funding to support the 
international  community  in  ramping  up  its  efforts  to 
respond to the humanitarian situation and contribute to 
a mid- and long-term sustainable solution to the crisis 
in the Horn of Africa. 

Proceeding from the fruitful cooperation between 
the United Nations and the Government of Azerbaijan, 
resolution  64/186,  entitled  “Building  connectivity 
through 
Information  Super 
Highway”, initiated by Azerbaijan, was adopted at the 
sixty-fourth  session  of  the  General  Assembly  on 
21 December  2009.  As  the  main  coordinator  of  the 
project,  Azerbaijan  has  conducted  a  feasibility  study 
the  Trans-Eurasian 
and  promoting 

feels 
responsible 
and is financing the Secretariat of the project. We have 
taken a number of steps towards the establishment of a 
consortium,  comprising  of  major  telecommunications 
operators in the region. 

Azerbaijan  has  always  been  a  place  of 
coexistence and tolerance among various faiths, ethnic 
groups and philosophies. It is one of the unique places 
where  different  cultures  and  civilizations  meet  at  the 
crossroads  between  East  and  West  and  North  and 
South. 
As  a  bridge  between  cultures  and  an  active 

member  of  the  Group  of  Friends  of  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations,  Azerbaijan 
for 
promoting  interreligious  and  intercultural  dialogue 
based on mutual respect and understanding. Thus, over 
the past years, we hosted a number of high-profile and 
action-oriented events, including the Summit of World 
Religious Leaders in April 2010, the World Forum for 
Intercultural Dialogue from 7 to 9 April 2011 and other 
similar events. 

Desiring to contribute further to the maintenance 
of international peace, security, stability and prosperity, 
Azerbaijan  has  put  forward  its  candidature  for  a 
non-permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council  for  the 
term of 2012-2013. The elections will be held this year 
on 21 October at the General Assembly. 
The year 2012 marks the twentieth anniversary of 

Azerbaijan’s  membership 
the  United  Nations, 
although,  unlike  other  candidates  from  the  Group  of 
Eastern  European  States,  we  have  never  had  an 
opportunity  to  become  a  member  of  the  Security 
Council. Azerbaijan’s  election  to  the  Security  Council 
would contribute to redressing the underrepresentation 
of  small  developing  States  and  bring  a  more  balanced 
membership 
that  United  Nations  organ.  The 
Government  of  the  Republic  of  Azerbaijan  would 
highly  appreciate  the  valuable  support  of  the  States 
Members of the United Nations for its candidature for 
a non-permanent seat in the Security Council. 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 

Dato Sri Anifah Aman, Minister for Foreign Affairs of 
Malaysia. 
Mr. Aman  (Malaysia):  I  would  like  to  take  this 

opportunity  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your  election 
as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth 
session.  I  have  no  doubt  that,  under  your  able 
leadership,  the Assembly  will  be  able  to  complete  its 
to 
in 
30 

11-51670 


deliberations  and  proceedings  successfully.  In  that 
respect, I wish to assure you of Malaysia’s full support 
for your presidency. Permit me also to congratulate His 
Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  on  his  reappointment  as 
Secretary-General. 

The  theme  you  have  chosen  for  the  general 
debate,  “The  role  of  mediation  in  the  settlement  of 
disputes by peaceful means”, is apt, fitting and timely. 
Indeed, the United Nations itself was established as an 
instrument of mediation to promote peace, security and 
stability among the nations of the world. Many in this 
body  have  spoken  about  the  importance  of  settling 
disputes through mediation. Malaysia shares that view. 

In the final analysis, peace can be achieved only 
if  people  are  willing  to  engage  in  mediation.  Now, 
more  than  ever  before,  mediation  must  be  made  to 
work in the Middle East crisis, as it is the only option 
available for the achievement of lasting peace. 
Year  after  year  after  year,  we  have  hoped  for  a 

peaceful and just resolution of the Palestinian issue. In 
the time that we have spent hoping, we have also come 
to realize that mediation is the only means of providing 
a  sustainable  resolution  to  all  conflicts  and  crises. As 
such, all of us have a role to play in ensuring that it is 
effective. Patience and prudence have their merits, but 
patience and prudence must not result in paralysis. This 
body and the Security Council have adopted numerous 
resolutions on Palestine, yet there has been no tangible 
outcome.  

We support the application of the Palestinians to 
the United Nations and welcome the readiness of both 
parties  to  hold  talks  on  the  basis  of  the  existing 
international  legal  framework.  In  that  connection, 
Malaysia  fully  supports  the  legitimate  rights  of  the 
Palestinian people to an independent State of Palestine, 
based on the two-State solution, taking into account the 
security concerns of both parties. 

For some time now, our world has been battered 
by  unprecedented  political  challenges,  devastating 
national  calamities  and  financial  crises.  During  that 
time,  our  institutions  and  mechanisms  have  seemed 
incapable of handling these challenges and the pace at 
which  they  surface. To  compound  the  situation,  while 
we  address 
international 
instability, non-traditional threats to peace and security, 
such as terrorism, pose additional challenges.  
long-standing  causes  of 
A/66/PV.28

As  we  share  the  grief  of  those  who  lost  their 
loved  ones  in  the  9/11  attack  10  years  ago,  we  must 
strengthen  our  resolve  to  eradicate  terrorism  in  all  its 
forms  and  manifestations.  That  can  be  achieved  only 
by  addressing  the  root  causes  of  terrorism,  which 
would  cut  off  sympathy  and  support  for 
those 
committing acts of terrorism. We must at the same time 
win  the  hearts  and  minds  of  the  people  to  ensure  that 
our victory over terrorism is not short-lived. 

But the winning of hearts and minds is only half 
of  what  I  would  call  the  battle  of  perceptions.  The 
other  half  consists  of  combating  expressions  of 
extremist sentiments. Despite our continuing efforts to 
promote world peace and harmony, we still witness the 
increasing  trend  to  perpetuate  and  fuel  Islamophobia. 
There have been attempts to pit Islam against the West, 
demonize Islam and to link Islam with terrorism. Those 
irresponsible  acts  further  intensify  the  divide  between 
the broader Muslim world and the West.  

The  real  issue  is  not  between  Muslims  and 
non-Muslims but between moderates and extremists in 
all religions, whether Islam, Christianity or Judaism. It 
is  in  light  of  the  growing  tide  of  extremist  sentiments 
around  the  globe  that  the  Prime  Minister  of  Malaysia 
called  for  the  creation  of  a  global  movement  of 
moderates at this Assembly last year (see A/65/PV.19). 
This  clarion  call  has  come  at  the  right  moment  in 
history. We must ensure that the voices of moderation, 
which  currently  constitute  the  silent  majority,  prevail 
over those of extremism in efforts to find solutions to 
the  growing  challenges  faced  by  the  international 
community. 

this 
movement  at  the  highest  levels  of  global  political 
leadership,  such  as  the  Asia-Europe  Meeting  and  the 
East  Asia  Summit.  More  recently,  the  Association  of 
Southeast Asian Nations has endorsed the movement of 
moderates  as  its  contribution  to  global  developments. 
Malaysia will work diligently to ensure that the global 
movement  of  moderates  will  complement  the  ongoing 
activities  of 
the  United  Nations  Alliance  of 
Civilizations  and  other  intercultural  and  interfaith 
dialogues  so 
triumph  over 
extremism. 

We cannot turn a blind eye to the needs of States 
that  are  severely  affected  by  natural  calamities.  The 
situation  in  Somalia  has  touched  the  hearts  of  many. 
For our part, Malaysia last month pledged $1 million to 
There  has  been  wide  acceptance  of 
that  moderation  will 
11-51670 

31 

and 
that 
institutional 
A/66/PV.28 

the  Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation  (OIC)  Trust 
Fund  for  Somalia  and  dispatched  a  humanitarian 
mission  to  mitigate  the  sufferings  of  our  Somali 
brothers  and  sisters.  A  valiant  Malaysian  son  lost  his 
life carrying out this mission. However, such incidents 
will  never  deter  us  from  continuing 
to  provide 
humanitarian assistance to all other countries in need. 

In  the  field  of  the  environment,  we  seem  to  be 
losing focus. We know that we are not lacking in good 
plans, but that we lack political will and the means to 
implement  those  agreed  plans.  As  much  as  we  are 
concerned  about  implementation  failures,  we  are  also 
concerned at the paralysing differences in on the areas 
of 
framework 
sustainable 
development.  The  failure  of 
the  Commission  on 
to  deliver  a  successful 
Sustainable  Development 
outcome last May clearly demonstrated that.  

The lack of progress and unwillingness to honour 
commitments  under  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change is another example. We 
must  ensure 
the  principle  of  common  but 
differentiated  responsibilities,  coupled  with  historical 
responsibility,  is  enshrined  in  all  our  endeavours  to 
achieve  a  successful  conclusion  on  climate  change 
negotiations and sustainable development. 

the  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development, there are new 
thoughts on strengthening the institutional frameworks 
institutional 
for 
the  environment.  If 
frameworks  are  unable 
the  daunting 
environmental challenges, we may have to look at new 
mechanisms  that  are  inclusive  and  participatory,  with 
equitable decision-making responsibilities. 

Nuclear  disarmament  occupies  a  central  role  in 
the work of the United Nations. This is reflected by the 
fact  that  the  very  first  resolution  adopted  by  the 
General Assembly  spoke,  among  other  things,  of  “the 
elimination 
from  national  armaments  of  atomic 
weapons  and  of  all  other  major  weapons  adaptable  to 
mass  destruction”  (resolution  1(I),  para.  5  (c)).  Yet 
65 years on, it remains a silent dream. All States need 
to  do  their  part  in  order  to  achieve  more  substantive 
progress in this area. 

Malaysia  is  committed  to  working  with  other 
Member States to realize the goal of a nuclear-weapon-
free  world.  We  will  continue  to  advocate  the  total 
elimination  of  nuclear  weapons  through  a  nuclear 
weapons convention. To progress further on that issue, 
the  current 
to  meet 
In  moving 
towards 
It 
that 
the  current 
is  apparent 
the  new  economic  model.  As  part  of 
consensus  is  required  on  commencing  the  multilateral 
negotiations  process.  This,  in  turn,  will  require  good 
faith  on  the  part  of  the  States  possessing  nuclear 
weapons. I call on all those States to demonstrate such 
good faith. 

international 
financial  architecture  is  unable  to  cope  with  recent 
developments  in  the  world  financial  markets.  The 
World  Bank  has  warned  that  we  are  about  to  enter  a 
danger zone. We need a new financial architecture that 
will  be  transparent,  equitable,  representational  and 
participatory  and  that  will  reduce  volatility.  Lessons 
can  be  learned  from  the  economies  of  developing 
countries  that  embarked  on  economic  reform  and 
strengthened  their  financial  institutions  following  the 
Asian financial crisis. Let us put pride aside and learn 
from each other. 

In  our  quest  to  move  up  the  value  chain  and 
enhance  competitiveness,  Malaysia  has  embarked  on 
its  own  transformation  programmes  based  on  the 
concept  of  One  Malaysia,  the  Government  transformation 
programme,  the  economic  transformation  programme 
and 
the 
transformation programme, Malaysia has taken a giant 
leap  in  reforming  its  internal  security  and  emergency 
laws,  which  will  be  replaced  by  legislation  to  prevent 
subversive action, terrorism and organized crime. 

Malaysia  is  transforming  and  reforming  itself  to 
better adapt to a changing global landscape. We believe 
that  the  United  Nations  must  do  the  same.  We  would 
like  to  see  a  comprehensive  reform  of  the  United 
Nations  so  that  it  will  be  able  to  face  current  realities 
and  address  present  challenges.  Most  particularly,  the 
Security Council should be comprehensively reformed 
to  make  it  more  legitimate,  representative,  democratic 
and 
transparent.  The  Council  must  be  effective, 
larger  United 
transparent  and  accountable  to  the 
Nations  membership 
its 
mediation  capacities.  It  must  not  remain  beholden  to 
the veto holders. 

In that respect, I return to the President’s theme. 
We need to adopt mediation in the search for peace. To 
that,  I  would  add  the  principles  of  transformation  and 
moderation.  A  combination  of  mediation,  transformation 
and  moderation  will  constitute  a  winning  formula  to 
realize  lasting  world  peace.  Let  us  take  up  the 
challenge  with  the  fortitude  required  and  together 
implement it for a united and a better world for all. 
to  strengthen 
in  order 
32 

11-51670 
Allow  me  also 
to 
take 
this  opportunity 
to  come  before 


The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 

Mr. Arthur  Peter  Mutharika,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Malawi. 
Mr. Mutharika (Malawi): First of all, let me say 

how  pleased  I  am 
the  General 
Assembly and to address it on behalf of His Excellency 
Mr. Bingu Wa Mutharika, President of the Republic of 
Malawi.  The  President  was  unable  to  attend  due  to 
other State commitments, but he sends his greetings to 
you,  Sir,  the  Secretary-General  and  all  the  peoples  of 
the United Nations.  

At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  extend  my  sincere 
congratulations  to  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as 
President  of  the  General Assembly. Your  election  is  a 
manifestation  of  the  confidence  that  the  people  of  the 
United  Nations  have  in  your  leadership.  I  wish  you 
well as you lead this body in the next several months. 

to 
congratulate  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss,  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session,  for  his 
effective  leadership  during  his  tenure.  I  had  the 
opportunity  of  working  with  him  in  Istanbul,  and  he 
was very helpful to me personally as a new participant 
in those international activities. He also showed much 
interest  in  Africa.  I  hope  that,  whatever  he  does  in 
future, he will continue to show interest in Africa.  
Let  me  also  take  the  opportunity  to  congratulate 

Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  on  his  unanimous  reappointment  as 
Secretary-General.  His  endorsement  has  demonstrated 
the 
in  his 
leadership.  I  remember  his  visit  to  Malawi  this  past 
year,  when  he  came  to  visit  the  Millennium  Village. 
The  people  of  Mwandama  village  anxiously  await  his 
return, and they have sent word through me to ask him, 
whenever he has time, to come back to Malawi.  

Let  me  take  this  opportunity  to  join  other 
speakers  in  congratulating  our  brothers  and  sisters  of 
South  Sudan  for  achieving  their  independence.  I  am 
particularly  excited  about  this  because,  when  South 
Sudan  gained  its  independence,  Malawi  was  Chair  of 
the  African  Union  and  played  a  small  part  in  its 
emergence  as  an  independent  State.  I  am  very  excited 
about that. The emergence of South Sudan is, I believe, 
a  good  manifestation  of  the  importance  of  mediation 
and  negotiation  in  the  settlement  of  disputes  by 
peaceful means. There is no question in my mind that 
the  remaining  issues  that  exist  between  South  Sudan 
international  community’s  confidence 
A/66/PV.28
and  the  Sudan  will  also  be  resolved  in  a  peaceful 
manner. I therefore wish them well. 

The theme of this general  debate is  “The role of 
mediation  in  the  settlement  of  disputes  by  peaceful 
means”.  I  consider  this  an  opportune  time  to  discuss 
that  particular  issue  because  today  we  are  faced  with 
new  problems,  including  inter-State  and  intra-State 
problems. There  is  a  new  phenomenon  of  people  who 
become  divided  over  ethnic,  linguistic,  religious  or 
cultural  differences  within  States.  Methods  must 
therefore be found to resolve disputes within States. 
I  therefore  wish  to  commend  the  United  Nations 

and 
to  encourage 
the  establishment  of  durable 
mechanisms to ensure that disputes between and within 
States  are  resolved  in  a  peaceful  manner.  In  that 
context,  I  congratulate  the  African  Union,  regional 
organizations  and  other  international  organizations  for 
the  mediation  work  they  have  done,  especially  in 
Africa. I would like to encourage developing countries, 
especially  African  States,  to  make  sure  to  adopt  the 
practice  of  resolving  disputes  in  universities  and  to 
train  people  at  regional  and  local  levels  in  dispute 
settlement and resolution techniques. 

There  are  a  number  of  issues  facing  the  United 
Nations  and  the  world,  but  my  country  has  identified 
five  that  I  hope  will  be  put  at  the  forefront  of  the 
United Nations agenda at this and future sessions. The 
first  issue  is  that  of  disaster  relief  and  management. 
Disasters have now become a major problem in most of 
our  countries.  They  strain  the  resources  of  the  least 
developed  countries,  particularly  in  Africa.  We  face 
problems of floods, heavy rains, droughts, earthquakes, 
heavy  winds  and  hurricanes  almost  every  day.  Such 
developments  have  the  effect  of  turning  back  the 
progress  made  with 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  Therefore,  I  would  like  to  invite 
the  international  community  to  set  up  mechanisms  in 
Africa and elsewhere in the developing world that can 
assist us in managing disasters. 

My country also attaches importance to the issue 
of  climate  change.  Climate  change  has  become  an 
extremely  difficult  issue  in  Africa,  where  crops  are 
destroyed because there is either too much rain or too 
little  rain,  too  much  wind  or  too  much  sunshine.  All 
these possibilities are due to climate change. Therefore, 
I  encourage  the  international  community  to  come  up 
with  mechanisms  to  manage  climate  change.  I  know 
that  countries like Malawi  have not  contributed to the 
respect 
to 
11-51670 

33 

as 
such 
in  our  countries.  Unfortunately, 
A/66/PV.28 

incidence of climate change. Nevertheless, we feel we 
do  have  a  collective  responsibility  to  make  sure  that 
the issue of climate change is addressed. I hope that the 
upcoming seventeenth Conference of the Parties to the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change,  scheduled  to  take  place  in  South Africa,  will 
address this particular problem.  

The  third  area  to  which  my  country  attaches 
importance is the issue of peace and security. As we are 
all  aware,  no  matter  how  much  development  we 
achieve, it will be meaningless if there is no peace and 
security 
in  our 
countries,  especially  in  Africa,  we  now  face  a  lot  of 
challenges.  There  are  movements  of  people  who  are 
bent  upon  bringing  about  unconstitutional  changes  of 
Government, thereby causing instability.  

In  the  case  of  Malawi,  we  are  committed  to 
maintaining peace and security. We are also committed 
to  democracy  and  good  governance.  In  this  regard, 
Malawi  has,  for  example,  instituted  a  number  of 
bodies, 
the  Malawi  Human  Rights 
Commission, an ombudsman, an anti-corruption bureau 
and  the  Department  of  the Auditor  General. All  these 
institutions  are  institutions  of  good  governance  aimed 
at improving the governance in our part of Africa, and 
certainly in Malawi.  

Another issue that is of importance to Malawi in 
particular and to Africa in general is the issue of self-
determination.  We  still  have  over  2  million  people  in 
different  parts  of  the  world  living  under  colonial 
domination. I want to urge the international community 
to make sure that by the end of the Third International 
Decade  for  the  Eradication  of  Colonialism  —  from 
2011  to  2021  —  all  the  territories  under  colonial 
domination  will  be  free  and  independent.  I  think  that 
self-governance is a very important concept. The self-
determination of colonized peoples is enshrined in the 
Charter of the United Nations.  

Of  course,  there  is  another  element  of  self-
determination which the United Nations obviously has 
to  address,  namely,  that  of  self-determination  outside 
the  colonial  context.  It  is  an  extremely  complicated 
problem  that  needs  to  be  addressed  and  studied.  First 
of  all,  what  does  self-determination  mean  within  the 
context  of  non-colonial  States?  What  are  peoples 
within the context of non-colonial States? It is an issue 
that  obviously  we  must  address  because  it  is  an 
important one. 
attaches 
in  1945 
is  no 
to 
the  structure  created 
Finally,  my  Government 

great 
importance to the role of the Security Council. There is 
no  question  that  the  Council  has  played  an  extremely 
important role since the creation of the United Nations 
in  1945.  However,  I  think  it  is  obvious  to  everybody 
that 
longer 
applicable  to  the  present  situation.  We  need  therefore 
to make sure that the Security Council is democratized. 
We  need  to  make  sure  that  majority  of  countries, 
especially those most affected by the Security Council, 
like  Malawi  and  others  in  Africa,  are  given  a  role  to 
play  in  the  Council.  I  therefore  would  like  to  endorse 
Africa’s  common  position,  known  as  the  Ezulwini 
Consensus, that two permanent member seats and five 
non-permanent seats in the Security Council should be 
given to Africa.  

The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
Mr. Surapong  Tovichakchaikul,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Kingdom of Thailand. 

Mr.  Tovichakchaikul  (Thailand):  On  behalf  of 
the  delegation  of  the  Kingdom  of  Thailand,  allow  me 
to  extend  to  you,  Sir,  our  warmest  congratulations  on 
your  election  as  President  of  the  General Assembly  at 
its sixty-sixth session. It is a personal honour for me to 
speak  for  the  first  time  before  this  gathering  of  the 
world’s  nations.  Please  be  assured  of  my  delegation’s 
full support and cooperation in the conduct of the work 
of this body. 

The year 2011 has already become a monumental 
year  in  modern  history.  The  call  for  reforms  in  the 
Middle East and North Africa has led to unprecedented 
transitions  and  popular  uprisings.  The  so-called  Arab 
the  significance  of  people’s 
Spring  underscores 
legitimate  aspirations  and 
respond 
adequately  to  them.  In  this  age  of  globalization, 
information, ideas and values flow beyond borders.  

For  Thailand,  after  experiencing  some  political 
unrest, the country has taken another step forward in its 
democratic  process.  The  general  elections  held  on 
3 July this year went smoothly, which is a testament to 
the resilience of Thai democracy. The new Government 
has  been  successfully  formed,  with  a  solid  mandate 
from  the  people.  Indeed,  the  voter  turnout  was  the 
highest 
history.  The 
Administration of Prime Minister Yingluck Shinawatra 
is now working resolutely to deliver on the promises it 
made  during  the  election  campaign.  In  implementing 
people-centred  policies,  it  seeks  to  establish  a  strong, 
in  Thailand’s 
the  need 
electoral 
34 

11-51670 
to  play  a 
Thailand  seeks 
further  enhance 


equitable  and  sustainable  economic  infrastructure  in 
the  country.  More  importantly,  the  Government  is 
determined  to  promote  reconciliation  and  uphold  the 
rule  of  law  to  serve  as  a  basis  for  harmony  and  unity 
within the country. 
As far as our foreign relations are concerned, the 

Government  will 
relations  with 
neighbouring  countries  and  our  friends  outside  the 
region. Special emphasis is placed on promoting trust, 
confidence  and  mutual  respect,  which  is  particularly 
important  as  we  prepare  for  the  realization  of  the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations Community in 
2015. We will also strengthen international cooperation 
at  all  forums  and  levels,  particularly  with  the  United 
Nations. 

responsible  and 
constructive  role  in  the  current  international  order. 
Thailand  is  convinced  that  the  three  pillars  of  the 
United Nations ─ peace and security, development and 
human  rights  ─  are  all  interconnected  and  mutually 
reinforcing. They  are  issues  that  need  to  be  addressed 
comprehensively  in  order  to  achieve  the  ultimate  goal 
of human security for our peoples. They are also issues 
that  Thailand  will  emphasize  in  its  cooperation  with 
the United Nations. 

In terms of peace and security, Thailand believes 
that  this  year’s  theme  for  the  General  Assembly’s 
general  debate,  as  proposed  by  you,  Mr.  President,  is 
very  timely.  Mediation  is  a  crucial  tool  for  helping  to 
resolve  disputes  peacefully.  The  recent  birth  of  the 
Republic of South Sudan and its swift admission to the 
United Nations are clear testaments to the constructive 
role of Mediterranean and the continued engagement of 
the  United  Nations  in  conflict  resolution.  Thailand 
welcomes the Republic of South Sudan into the global 
community, and wishes to forge bilateral relations and 
a partnership for development with this new State. 

Thailand is convinced that the peaceful resolution 
of  conflicts  is  the  most  desirable  and  cost-effective 
approach  in  terms  of  both  human  lives  and  financial 
expense.  For  that  reason,  political  will  remains  a  key 
ingredient  without  which  such  an  approach  cannot  be 
successful.  

Wishing  to  do  our  part,  Thailand  has  actively 
supported  the  comprehensive  peace  operations  and 
peacekeeping  missions  of  the  United  Nations  in  more 
than  20  locations  around  the  world.  We  are  currently 
deploying an infantry battalion with the African Union-
A/66/PV.28
and 
adheres 
to 
approach 
lasting  peace 
United  Nations  Hybrid  Operation  in  Darfur.  We  have 
also  sent  police  and  military  officers  to  the  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  missions  in  Timor-Leste  and 
Haiti, and we are about to deploy military officers to a 
United Nations operation in Kashmir. In addition, since 
autumn 2010 Thailand has sent two counter-piracy task 
groups to join international efforts to patrol and protect 
ships  from  pirate  attacks  in  the  Gulf  of  Aden  area. 
These  are  just  a  few  examples  of  our  effort  to  play  a 
meaningful role in maintaining international peace and 
security. 

If  international  stability  is  one  of  our  primary 
goals,  Thailand  firmly  believes  that  a  key  foundation 
sustainable  development. 
for 
is 
Sustainable  development 
is  an  essential 
tool  for 
eradicating  poverty  and  inequality,  which  are  root 
causes  of  insecurity.  As  the  guiding  principle  of  our 
social and economic policy, Thailand has long taken a 
people-centred 
the 
sufficiency-economy  philosophy  of  His  Majesty  King 
Bhumibol  Adulyadej,  which  focuses  on  living  in 
moderation  and  striking  a  balance  between  economic 
growth  and  the  sustainable  management  of  natural 
resources. 

Our  Government  is  also  working  resolutely  to 
ensure,  among  other  things,  equal  opportunity  for  all, 
free  primary  and  secondary  education,  and  universal 
health care coverage. Although we have achieved most 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  ahead 
of schedule, we are resolutely pursuing the MDG Plus 
targets.  In  the  greater  scheme  of  things,  we  are 
determined  that  no  one  in  Thai  society  should  be  left 
behind. 

to  be 
realized,  cooperation  among  all  sectors  of  society  and 
partnerships  with  the  international  community  are 
essential.  Thailand  has  been  active  in  promoting 
partnerships  between  developed  and  developing 
countries,  and  stands  ready  to  serve  as  a  bridge 
between both groups through triangular cooperation. At 
the  same  time,  we  will  continue  to  strengthen  South-
fellow  developing 
South  cooperation  with  our 
countries, 
in 
the  Non-Aligned 
Movement and the Group of 77 and China. 

Thailand  has  also  assumed  a  more  creative  and 
proactive  role  in  cooperation  with  the  international 
community  in  various  development  areas.  Over  the 
years,  relations  between 
the  United  Nations  and 
In  order  for  sustainable  development 
including 
those 
11-51670 

35 

relationship 
to  one  of  partners 
A/66/PV.28 

Thailand  have  evolved  from  a  traditional  donor-
recipient 
in 
development. 

Neither  development  nor  peace  and  security  can 
be sustainable if respect for human rights lags behind. 
Thailand  firmly  believes  that  human  rights  represent 
truly  universal  values.  Respect  for  them  must  be  a 
fundamental  principle  in  every  society.  For  Thailand, 
human rights issues are at the core of our domestic and 
foreign  policy  agendas.  In  terms  of  foreign  policy, 
Thailand  has  striven  to  play  a  constructive  role  at  the 
regional  and  international  levels,  especially  through 
our membership of the Human Rights Council. During 
our  presidency  of  the  Council, Thailand  was  proud  to 
direct the crucial task of reviewing its methods of work 
and  operations  in  order  to  make  it  more  relevant  and 
credible. This was particularly important when it came 
to  responding  to  urgent  human  rights  situations  in  a 
more timely and effective manner. 

Every  Government  must  find  its  own  solutions 
and move at its own pace in a manner appropriate to its 
specific  context  and  conditions.  Meanwhile,  it  is 
incumbent  on  the  international  community  to  support 
and  promote  constructive  dialogue  and  engagement 
with  countries  of  concern,  while  respecting  their 
sovereignty,  territorial  integrity  and  the  will  of  the 
people.  Such  support  and  dialogue  should  aim  at 
strengthening  States’  capacity  to  meet  their  human 
rights  obligations.  Here  it  is  important,  in  Thailand’s 
view, to find common ground on the value of technical 
cooperation in enhancing human rights. We have been 
holding  consultations  on  an  initiative  to  enhance  the 
efficiency  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  in  providing 
technical  cooperation  to  countries  in  need.  Thailand 
hopes  that  this  initiative  will  receive  the  broad-based 
support of countries from all regions in the Council. 

With  our  genuine  commitment  to  the  promotion 
and protection of human rights, Thailand is determined 
to continue playing a constructive role in the Council. 
In that regard, we will proudly stand for election once 
again for the 2015-2017 term. As Thailand continues to 
enhance  its  participation  as  a  member  of  the  Human 
Rights Council, we are determined to further contribute 
to  human  rights  work  and  to  strengthen  the  rights  of 
vulnerable groups, both at home and abroad. We attach 
special  importance  to  such  groups,  be  they  children, 
women, people with disabilities or the elderly.  

One  notable  example  is  in  the  area  of  women’s 
rights.  In  December  2010,  the  General  Assembly 
adopted the United Nations Rules for the Treatment of 
Women  Prisoners  and  Non-custodial  Measures  for 
Women  Offenders,  or  the  Bangkok  Rules  (resolution 
65/229), based on an initiative of Her Royal Highness 
Princess Bajrakitiyabha. The Rules aim to enhance the 
human  rights  of  female  prisoners  in  criminal  justice 
systems by fully recognizing gender sensitivity and the 
specific  needs  of  women.  Thailand  is  committed  to 
promoting  the  implementation  of  the  Bangkok  Rules 
worldwide  and  looks  forward  to  continuing  to  work 
closely  with  all  relevant  stakeholders.  Moreover,  the 
recent  election  of  the  country’s  first  female  Prime 
Minister  confirms  that Thai  society  is  open  to  women 
and  that  we  continue  to  promote  gender  equality  and 
the empowerment of women. 

It should be evident from all I have said that the 
United  Nations  is  a  cornerstone  of  Thailand’s  foreign 
policy,  and  that Thailand  has  been  an  active  player  in 
all  three  pillars  of  the  United  Nations.  Peace  and 
security,  development  and  human  rights  are  truly 
inseparable and should be strengthened simultaneously. 
Given our past experience and continued contributions 
to all three, especially the maintenance of international 
peace  and  security,  Thailand  has  presented 
its 
candidature  for  a  non-permanent  seat  on  the  Security 
Council  for  the  2017-2018  term.  We  seek  the  support 
of our friends in the United Nations in this regard. We 
are convinced that such a  position would enable us to 
fulfil  our 
and 
constructively with all Members of the United Nations. 
Let us rise to the challenge together. 

Mr. Nassirou  Bako  Arifari,  Minister 
Affairs,  African 
Beninese Abroad of the Republic of Benin. 
Mr.  Bako  Arifari  (Benin)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

should  like  at  the  outset  to  convey  to  you,  Sir,  my 
heartfelt  and  sincere  congratulations  on  your  well-
deserved election as President of the General Assembly 
at its sixty-sixth session and to wish you every success 
in discharging your mandate.  
I  should  like  also  to  reiterate  my  heartfelt 

congratulations 
to  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  on  his 
reappointment  as  Secretary-General.  I  assure  him  of 
the  full  cooperation  of  the  Government  of  Benin  and 
the  personal  support  of  its  Head  of  State  in  the  vast 
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 
for  Foreign 
and 
Integration,  Francophonie 
commitment 
to  work 
closely 
36 

11-51670 


undertaking  that  is  the  modernization  of  the  United 
Nations,  which  he  has  been  working  towards  since  he 
took the helm of the Organization.  

I  should  like  also  to  pay  a  well-deserved  tribute 
to  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss  for  the  outstanding  manner  in 
which  he  carried  out  his  mission  as  President  of  the 
General Assembly at its sixty-fifth session. 

I  should  like  to  commend  the  selection  of  the 
theme of the sixty-sixth session, “The role of mediation 
in the peaceful settlement of disputes”. This reflects a 
recognition  of  the  importance  of  dialogue  and  of  the 
responsibility  of  third  parties  in  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. 

Conflicts,  crises  and  wars  represent  a  large  part 
of the challenges faced by humankind. They undermine 
poorer  States,  whose  efforts  are  often  undone  by 
indiscriminate violence, as deadly as it is destructive.  

This  legitimate  interest  in  the  use  of  mediation 
should serve as a catalyst for raising the awareness of 
stakeholders in all regions of the world as to the need 
to  accord  greater  importance  to  dialogue  in  resolving 
problems,  nationally  and  in  the  context  of  inter-State, 
bilateral, regional and international relations. 
the 

partnership  between 
the 
African  Union  within  the  context  of  the  special 
political  missions,  which  are  an  optimum  framework 
for  mediation.  Such  partnerships  can  help  to  avert 
redundancy  and  duplication,  which  can  be  counter-
productive and doom mediation efforts to failure. 

Benin, for its part, which owes much to dialogue, 
very early on grasped the importance of that tool in the 
prevention and resolution of crises at the national level. 
In that respect, I believe it appropriate here to draw the 
attention of the international community to the fact that 
the Government of Benin has given high priority to the 
issue  of  mediation  in  its  programme  of  action  and,  in 
that context, established the Office of the Ombudsman. 
We  would  also  like  to  commend  the  creation,  at  the 
regional  level,  of  the  Association  of  Ombudsmen  of 
Member  Countries  of  the West African  Economic  and 
Monetary  Union,  which  Benin  chairs;  indeed,  most  of 
the countries in the Union are relying on this important 
tool for the maintenance of peace. 

Perhaps  we  should  go  even  further  and  establish 
civil entities for mediation and the restoration of peace, 
whose  members  would  meet  with  the  parties  to  a 
to  commend 
the  United  Nations  and 
We  would 
therefore 
like 
A/66/PV.28
them 
to  resolve 
conflict so as to re-establish dialogue among them and 
to  prevail  upon 
their  disputes 
peacefully. 

The  current  state  of  the  world  makes  clear  the 
urgent need to strengthen multilateralism, with a view 
to  averting  the  collective  collapse  that  could  result  if 
appropriate  or  consensual  solutions  are  not  rapidly 
found to the global problems afflicting the world today. 
At  the  national  level,  we  require  greater  cohesion 
among  the  vital  forces  of  the  country  and  greater 
determination  in  the  context  of  actions  aimed  at 
eliminating  the  obstacles  that  impede  development. 
With  respect  to  preserving  democratic  institutions, 
when  the  fundamental  values  enshrined  in  the  Charter 
are at stake, the United Nations must be at the forefront 
of the efforts of the international community. 

In that regard, impartiality cannot be synonymous 
with  neutrality,  which  would  be  unfathomable  and 
make  the  United  Nations  a  passive  bystander  to  the 
triumph  of  aggression  over  the  rule  of  law.  I  should 
therefore  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  the 
courageous choices he has made.  
In  Benin,  democracy  has  been  strengthened  by 

the  tireless  commitment  of  the  United  Nations  to 
ensuring electoral transparency, which it accomplished 
through  its  support  for  the  creation  of  a  computerized 
permanent 
any 
manipulation  or  other  fraudulent  manoeuvres  and 
thereby ensures fairness in our country’s elections. 
Based on the success of our young democracy in 

to 
Benin,  my  Government  has  been  working 
consolidate  cooperative  governance  at  both 
the 
national and local levels, so as to maximize the impact 
of 
that  have  been  mobilized  and 
earmarked  for  the  promotion  of  the  well-being  of  all 
the  citizens  of  our  country.  Accordingly,  far-reaching 
reforms  have  been  undertaken  to  reorganize  the  State 
and  rid  the  country  of  the  structural  and  behavioural 
incoherence that has impeded the State in its efforts to 
govern effectively. 

The  strengthening  of  democratic  institutions  and 
a  fresh  balance  of  powers  is  at  the  very  heart  of  the 
constitutional  review  that  is  under  discussion.  Such  a 
review must in no way affect the principal mechanisms 
that ensure the alternance of power, that is, the number 
of  terms  allowed  the  President  of  the  Republic  — 
strictly  limited  to  two  —  and  the  age  limitation  of 
the  resources 
list,  which 
voters’ 
prevents 
11-51670 

37 
A/66/PV.28 

70 years, beyond which one cannot run for the highest 
office in Benin. 

The fight against corruption is a crucial aspect of 
that  effort  to  streamline  the  State  apparatus.  The 
adoption  in  late  August  2011  of  a  new  law  to  fight 
corruption  is  in  keeping  with  the  national  dynamic  of 
ensuring transparency in the management of the State’s 
resources  and  in  the  resolute  fight  undertaken  against 
any  practices  that  deny  citizens  the  ability  fully  to 
enjoy  the  fruits  of  their  labour. That  new  law  enables 
us  to  better  combat  the  various  forms  of  illicit 
enrichment,  as  today  it  is  up  to  the  accused  to  justify 
the  source  of  his  wealth,  not  the  accuser.  This  is  a 
revolutionary  development  in  the  context  Benin’s 
judicial and legislative mechanisms. 

At the global level, we believe in the benefits of 
multilateralism.  That  is  why  we  see  an  ever  greater 
need  for  the  United  Nations,  which  should  be  given  a 
more  assertive  role  in  global  governance  —  a  United 
Nations  that  would  spearhead  and  lead  of  actions 
aimed  at  promoting,  within  an  inclusive  framework, 
comprehensive  and  sustainable  solutions 
the 
manifold crises that are affecting the world and having 
direct repercussions for human rights.  

Our  Government,  throughout  its  term  in  the 
Human  Rights  Council,  intends,  together  with  other 
members  of  the  Council,  to  work  to  promote  and 
protect universally recognized human rights, in a spirit 
of  cooperation.  Benin 
the 
universality,  the  indivisibility  and  the  interdependence 
of  all  human  rights.  It  has  faith  in  international 
cooperation as the most effective means for promoting 
and protecting all universally recognized human rights. 

Let us recognize the ongoing efforts made in past 
years by each of our countries, and collectively through 
international organizations both regional and universal, 
to  manage  the  consequences  of  the  various  crises  that 
affect  the  world,  particularly  developing  countries  — 
food,  energy,  financial,  economic  and  environmental 
crises.  

However,  the  international  economic  situation 
remains  sluggish  and  uncertain.  Indeed,  the  long-
awaited international economic recovery remains slow 
and 
financial  and  stock  market 
turbulence continues to affect the international market. 

the 
800 million  people  in  the  least  developed  countries 
firmly  believes 
tenuous,  while 
today,  more 
Even 
than 
two 
thirds  of 
to 
in 

(LDCs) are living in poverty. The economic indicators 
of those nations — which have made prodigious efforts 
and heavy sacrifices to emerge from underdevelopment — 
call  for  great  prudence  with  regard  to  attaining  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) by 2015. 

Despite  that  rather  bleak  picture,  we  should 
continue  our  efforts  to  ensure  that  our  countries  can 
make  progress  in  the  spheres  of  good  governance, 
development,  health,  water, 
sanitation,  primary 
education for all and the empowerment of women and 
youth. 

The developing countries, particularly the LDCs, 
need more than ever the transfer of modern technology 
to increase and diversify production, take a greater part 
in  international  trade  and  build  the  infrastructure 
required for development. The developed countries and 
the  countries  of  the  South  that  are  experiencing 
significant economic growth should establish facilities 
to that end, as was agreed at the Fourth United Nations 
Conference on the Least Developed Countries, held in 
Istanbul from 9 to 13 May 2011. The new programme 
of  action  adopted  at  that  Conference  clearly  reflects 
our shared ambition to ensure that half those countries 
move  to  the  category  of  middle-income  nations  by 
2020.  

But  however  noble  the  goals  set  forth  in  the 
Istanbul Programme of Action may be, they cannot be 
achieved  unless  we  respect  the  commitments  already 
made.  For  that  reason,  despite  the  cyclical  difficulties 
that characterize the current global economic situation, 
we must remain firm in our resolve to move forward.  
There  is  no  stable  financial  support  for  the 

development  efforts  of 
the  LDCs  without  stable 
sources  of  financing.  Therefore  the  Government  of 
Benin  strongly  supports 
innovative  financing 
initiative  for  development.  We  call  on  the  nations  of 
the Group of 20 to take a closer look at that initiative 
so  that  taxation  of  financial  transactions  becomes  a 
tangible reality during the weeks and months to come. 

Threats  related  to  climate  change  —  particularly 
the  continuing  deterioration  of  the  environment  and 
drought, a source of famine in some parts of Africa — 
and 
recurrence  of  natural  disasters  greatly 
undermine the future prospects of the LDCs.  

Benin commends the United Nations preparatory 
work for the Rio+20 Summit planned for Brazil in June 
2012.  We  hope  those  meetings  will  lead  to  robust 
the 
the 
38 

11-51670 


measures and decisions that match the perils that await 
us. 

The  threats  that  curtail  our  ambitions  stem  from 
other factors as well, such as the surge in transnational 
organized  crime,  which 
is  quite  pernicious.  My 
country, Benin, has in recent months been the target of 
extremely  serious  and  savage  acts  of  piracy,  armed 
robbery  at  sea  and  an 
influx  of  narcotics  and 
counterfeit  medicines.  This  scourge  has  not  spared 
other countries of the Gulf of Guinea, which have also 
been  affected  to  varying  degrees.  We  are  particularly 
distressed  not  only  by  the  escalating  number  of  such 
attacks and the increasingly sophisticated methods the 
pirates  employ,  but  also  and  especially  by 
the 
expansion  of  their  field  of  action  and  the  immediate 
effect of these attacks on port activities in Benin. 

That situation complicates Benin’s efforts to find 
the  resources  to  handle  the  economic  and  financial 
difficulties related to external shocks, the repercussions 
of  which  severely  impact  the  economy  of  small 
countries  like  ours.  It  also  seriously  hampers  our 
ability  to  achieve  the  MDGs.  The  Government  of 
Benin  is  working  with  our  neighbour  Nigeria  to 
mobilize the countries of the Gulf of Guinea subregion 
for  a  coordinated 
response  by  developing  and 
implementing  a  regional  approach  that  involves  joint 
manoeuvres to be launched shortly by the armed forces 
of Benin and Nigeria along the coast of Benin. 

I  call  for  the  effective  solidarity  of  States  with 
expertise in the area of maritime operations to come to 
our  assistance.  Our  resources  are  laughable,  given  the 
magnitude  of  the  threat.  Clearly,  the  fight  against 
piracy requires technical and financial resources that a 
developing  State  cannot  provide  alone.  Here  I  would 
like to thank the United States, France, China and other 
countries 
that  have  already  shown  spontaneous 
solidarity toward Benin. 

The  matters  to  which  we  need  to  find  solutions 
grow  ever  more  complex.  The  United  Nations  must 
continually  improve  its  ability  to  closely  define  the 
challenges 
to  help  States 
formulate  appropriate  responses  while  preserving  the 
delicate  balance  of  interests  of  all  stakeholders,  as 
evidence of its efficiency and efficacy.  

Along  these  lines,  the  negotiations  to  reform  the 
Security Council must be intensified with the adoption 
of  a  specific  timetable  for  their  outcome,  to  be 
credible. My  sense is that  2015 could be considered  a 
facing  humanity  and 
A/66/PV.28
deadline  for  completing  negotiations  and  establishing 
an  inclusive  Security  Council  that  would  redress  the 
historical  injustice  done  to  Africa  with  respect  to  its 
permanent  representation  in  that  body,  which  crowns 
the collective security system established by the United 
Nations Charter.  

Benin says no, no, and a third time no. The time 
has come to put an end to an intolerable injustice that 
excludes an entire continent — the only one, Africa — 
from  the  supreme  decision-making  body  with  respect 
to international security.  

I am certain that completion of Security Council 
reform  will  lead  to  greater  trust  and  less  suspicion  in 
the  management  of  today’s  great  challenges  in  the 
realm of international peace and security. 

My  country  has  always  advocated  strengthening 
conflict  prevention  as  a  means  to  ensure  international 
peace and security at less cost. Efforts to that end must 
be tirelessly pursued.  

Prevention  also  includes  effectively  supporting 
young people to prepare them for their responsibilities, 
protect them from the risks they face and channel their 
energies  towards  participation  in  the  development  of 
their  countries.  We  need  to  remove  the  obstacles  that 
deter or prevent them from fulfilling their potential and 
divert  them  to  risky  behaviour  of  all  kinds  that  harm 
public order and the stability of States.  

firmly 
committed to the holding of the United Nations High-
level  Meeting  on Youth.  Now  that  it  has  taken  place, 
we need to do our utmost to ensure that its conclusions 
on youth are translated into specific actions as soon as 
possible. The great interest in that High-level Meeting 
shown by young people around the world reflects their 
will  to  become  more  involved  in  the  search  for 
appropriate 
facing 
humankind.  

The Government of my country also believes that 
it would be useful for the United Nations to hold youth 
hearings  every  year,  or  every  other  year,  to  enable 
youth  from  around  the  world  to  address  a  specific 
subject,  with  broad  participation  of  young  delegates 
and young leaders of non-governmental organizations. 
Such regular mobilization of the world’s young people 
in  the  heart  of  the  United  Nations  would  make  our 
world  Organization  more  inclusive  and  closer  to  our 
peoples.  
is  why  my  Government  was 
the  challenges 
That 
solutions 
to 
11-51670 

39 

“The 
those 
entitled 
societies 
A/66/PV.28 


For  us  in  Benin  —  and  I  quote  the  President  of 
the Republic, Mr. Boni Yayi — “there is no doubt that 
only 
that  give  young  people 
opportunities  will  be  able  to  meet  the  challenges  to 
come”. 

From 16 to 20 November 2010, Benin hosted an 
international  symposium  on  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of 
the  independence  of  African  countries.  That  meeting 
culminated  in  the  drafting  of  an  important  historic 
document 
Fiftieth  Anniversary 
Manifesto”.  The  African  Union,  at  its  most  recent 
summit, held in Malabo on 30 June and 1 July, adopted 
the  Manifesto  as  a  reference  document  for 
the 
renaissance of the African continent.  

The Anniversary Manifesto details, in the context 
of  globalization,  felicitous  prospects  with  regard  the 
challenges facing Africa in the coming 50 years, which 
will  require  new  partnership  approaches  to  promote 
development  and  more  effective  collective  action  for 
the renaissance of the continent. I firmly hope that the 
Manifesto will be taken to heart equally by the United 
Nations and lead to synergy and better coordination of 
efforts to mobilize the international community for the 
economic  development  of  African  countries  so  as  to 
meet  the  legitimate  aspirations  of  the  people  of  the 
continent. 

In  conclusion,  I  want  to  note  that  recent  history 
teaches  us  that  the  greatest  threats  to  international 
peace  and  security  come  from  peoples  who  have  long 
been  frustrated.  The  Palestinian  question  makes  the 
Arab  nation  a  frustrated  nation.  The  United  Nations 
today has the means to find a just and lasting solution 
to the Palestinian problem, and it must not fail to meet 
its historic responsibility.  
We  support  a  free  and  independent  Palestinian 

State  living  in  peaceful  coexistence  with  the  State  of 
Israel.  Benin  gives  ongoing  support  to  the  one-land, 
two-State solution and calls upon the Security Council 
to  facilitate  the  prompt  resolution  of  the  problem,  to 
bring relief to the Palestinian people, who endure daily 
suffering.  

We believe in the virtue of mediation. The choice 
of that option as a way to resolve conflicts around the 
world in this sixty-sixth session of the Assembly offers 
a  last  chance  for  the  two  parties  to  re-engage  in 
dialogue  to  finally  bring  lasting  peace  to  the  Middle 
East and to the world. The peace that we all so wish for 
must  be  based  on  universal  respect  for  the  cardinal 
Every  year, 
I  would  also  like  to  cordially  welcome  the 
the 
principles  and  fundamental  values  contained  in  the 
United Nations Charter.  
The  President:  I  now  call  on  His  Excellency 

Archbishop  Dominique  Mamberti,  Secretary 
for 
Relations with States of the Observer State of the Holy 
See. 
Archbishop  Mamberti  (Holy  See)  (spoke  in 

French): I have the pleasure of congratulating you, Sir, 
on  your  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-sixth session. I assure you of the 
full  and  sincere  collaboration  of  the  Holy  See.  I  also 
congratulate the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, 
who during this session, on 1 January 2012, will begin 
his second term.  

delegation  of  South  Sudan,  which  became 
193rd Member State of the Organization last July. 

the 
the  general  debate  offers 
opportunity  to  address  the  principal  questions  that 
concern  humanity  in  search  of  a  better  future  for  all. 
The challenges facing the international community are 
many  and  difficult.  They  bring  ever  more  clearly  in 
focus  the  profound  interdependence  within  the  family 
of  nations,  which  sees  in  the  United  Nations  an 
important agent, despite its limitations, for identifying 
and  implementing  solutions  to  major  international 
problems.  

Without  attempting  an  exhaustive  survey,  my 
delegation  wishes  to  reflect  on  a  few  of  the  priority 
challenges so that the concept of the family of nations 
can increasingly take shape. 

The first challenge is a humanitarian one. It calls 
the  whole  international  community  —  or  better,  the 
family of nations — to look after its weakest members. 
In  certain  parts  of  the  world,  such  as  the  Horn  of 
Africa,  we  are,  sadly,  facing  grave  humanitarian 
emergencies  that  force  millions  of  people  —  the 
majority women and children — to leave their homes, 
large  numbers  of  them  being  victims  of  drought, 
famine and malnutrition.  

the 
international  community,  expressed  many  times  by 
Pope  Benedict  XVI, 
support 
humanitarian  policies  in  those  areas  and  to  work  to 
concretely  address  the  various  factors  that  amplify 
their vulnerability. 
to  amplify  and 
The  Holy  See 
its  appeal 
renews 
to 
40 

11-51670 
the 
the 
invoked 
that  protection, 
international  community 



These  humanitarian  emergencies  make  clear  the 
need  to  find  innovative  ways  to  put  to  work  the 
principle of the responsibility to protect, at the base of 
which  is  the  recognition  of  the  unity  of  the  human 
family  and  the  innate  dignity  of  every  man  and  every 
woman.  As  is  known,  that  principle  points  to  the 
responsibility  of 
to 
intervene  in  situations  in which  Governments  on  their 
own cannot — or do not wish to — comply with their 
primary  responsibility  to  protect  their  populations 
against grave violations of human rights and the effects 
of humanitarian crises. If States are no longer capable 
of  guaranteeing 
international 
community  must  intervene  with  the  juridical  means 
foreseen  in  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  other 
international instruments. 
However,  it  must  be  recalled  that  there  is  a  risk 

that 
that  principle  may  be 
in  certain 
circumstances  as  a  pretext  to  use  military  force.  It  is 
good  to  recall  that  even  the  use  of  force  in  keeping 
with  the  United  Nations  rules  should  be  a  temporary 
solution,  a  true  emergency  measure,  accompanied  and 
followed by a concrete commitment to pacification. 

For that reason, in taking up the challenge of the 
responsibility  to  protect,  we  must  engage  in  a  deeper 
search for the means to prevent and manage conflicts, 
exploring  all  possible  diplomatic  avenues  through 
negotiation  and  constructive  dialogue,  noting  and 
encouraging  even  the  weakest  signs  of  willingness  to 
negotiate or desire for reconciliation on the part of the 
parties involved. 

The  responsibility  to  protect  must  be  thought  of 
not  as  military  intervention  alone  —  which  should 
always  be  the  last  recourse  —  but  above  all  as  a 
requirement that the international community be united 
in  facing  crises.  It  must  create  forums  for  genuine, 
sincere  negotiations,  support  the  moral  force  of  law, 
seek  the  common  good  and  encourage  Governments, 
civil  society  and  public  opinion  to  find  the  causes  of 
and offer solutions to crises of all kinds. I must act in 
close  collaboration  and  solidarity  with  the  affected 
populations  and  place  above  all  else  the  integrity  and 
security of all citizens.  

It is therefore important that the responsibility to 
protect,  understood  in  that  sense,  should  be  the 
criterion  and  motivation that underlies  all the work of 
States  and  of  the  United  Nations  to  restore  peace, 
security and the human rights. Moreover, the long and 
A/66/PV.28
history 
successful 
the  more 
of 
recent 
peacekeeping 
generally 
operations  and 
initiatives 
in 
peacebuilding can offer valuable lessons for conceiving 
models  for  implementing  the  responsibility  to  protect 
in  full  respect  for  international  law  and  for  the 
legitimate interests of all the parties involved. 

Respect for freedom of religion is a fundamental 
factor  in  peacebuilding,  the  recognition  of  human 
dignity and the safeguarding of the human rights. This 
is the second challenge I would like to reflect on. 
The  situations  in  which  the  right  to  freedom  of 

religion is violated or is denied to believers of different 
religions  are  unfortunately  many.  We  have  witnessed 
rising  intolerance  for  religious  reasons.  Christians  are 
the  religious  group  that  currently  suffers  the  greatest 
persecution because of their faith.  

The  lack  of  respect  for  freedom  of  religion 
threatens  security  and  peace  and  hinders  authentic 
integral  human  development. The  particular  weight  of 
a  given  religion  in  a  nation  should  never  mean  that 
citizens  of  other  faiths  are  discriminated  against  in 
social life or, worse still, that violence against them is 
tolerated.  In  that  connection,  it  is  important  that  a 
common  commitment  to  recognize  and  promote  the 
freedom  of  every  person  and  every 
religious 
community  be  promoted  by  engaging 
in  sincere 
interreligious  dialogue,  encouraged  and  supported  by 
Governments and international bodies.  

I reiterate the concerned appeal made by the Holy 
See  to  authorities  and  religious  leaders  to  adopt 
effective  measures  for  the  protection  of  religious 
minorities,  wherever  they  are  threatened.  In  that  way, 
believers of all faiths everywhere will be able to live in 
security  and  continue  to  make  a  contribution  to  their 
society.  

In thinking about the situation in some countries, 
I  would  like  to  repeat  in  particular  that  Christians  are 
citizens  like  any  other  citizens,  connected  to  their 
homeland and faithful to all of their national duties. It 
is  natural  that  they  should  enjoy  all  the  rights  of 
citizenship,  freedom  of  conscience  and  worship, 
freedom in teaching and education and freedom in the 
use of communications media. 

Moreover,  in  some  countries,  although  much 
importance  is  placed  on  pluralism  and  tolerance, 
paradoxically  there  is  a  tendency  to  consider  religion 
as  something  foreign  to  modern  society  or  even  as  a 
11-51670 

41 
In 

to 
through 
religions 
A/66/PV.28 

destabilizing  force.  Various  means  are  sought 
to 
marginalize  religion  and  prevent  it  from  having  any 
influence on social life.  
But how can anyone deny the contribution of the 

world’s  great 
the  development  of 
civilization?  As  Pope  Benedict  XVI  stressed,  the 
sincere  search  for  God  has  led  to  greater  respect  for 
human  dignity.  For  example,  Christian  communities, 
with  their  heritage  of  values  and  principles,  have 
contributed  much  to  making  individuals  and  peoples 
aware of their own identity and their dignity, as well as 
to the establishment of rule-of-law institutions and the 
recognition  of  human  rights  and  their  corresponding 
responsibilities.  From  that  standpoint,  it  is  important 
that  believers,  today  as  yesterday,  feel  free  to  offer 
their  contribution  to  the  promotion  of  a  more  just 
human  order,  not  only 
their  responsible 
involvement  in  civic,  economic  and  political  life,  but 
also through the witness of their charity and faith. 

A third challenge that the Holy See would like to 
bring to the attention of the Assembly is the continuing 
global economic and financial crisis.  
We  all  know  that  a  fundamental  element  of  the 

current  crisis  is  the  deficit  in  ethics  in  the  economic 
structures.  Ethics  are  not  an  external  element  of  the 
economy; the economy has no future if it has no moral 
element.  In  other  words,  the  ethical  dimension  is 
essential 
in  addressing  economic  problems.  The 
economy  does  not  function  only  through  market  self-
regulation,  and  even  less  through  agreements  that  are 
limited  to  accommodating  the  interests  of  the  most 
powerful.  

The  economy  needs  an  ethical  raison  d’être  in 
order to work for humankind. The notion of producing 
resources and goods — that is, the economy — and of 
managing  them  strategically  —  that  is,  politics  — 
without seeking to do good through those same acts — 
that  is,  without  ethics  —  has  proven  to  be  a  naïve  or 
cynical  illusion,  and  always  fatal.  Moreover,  every 
economic decision has a moral consequence.  

The  economy  therefore  needs  ethics  to  function 
properly  —  not  just  any  ethic,  but  a  people-centred 
ethic  that  can  offer  prospects  to  new  generations. 
Economic  and  commercial  activities  oriented  towards 
development  should  be  able  to  effectively  reduce 
poverty  and  alleviate 
the  most 
disenfranchised.  
the  suffering  of 
that 
regard, 
the  Holy  See  has 
and  distortions.  This 
the  Holy  See  encourages 

strengthening  official  development  assistance 
in 
accordance  with  the  Group  of  Eight  commitments 
made  at  Gleneagles.  My  delegation  hopes  that  the 
debates  on  this  theme  at  the  forthcoming  High-level 
Dialogue on Financing for Development will bring the 
expected results.  

Furthermore, 
repeatedly 
stressed  the  importance  of  new  and  more  in-depth 
thinking  on  the  meaning  of  the  economy  and  its 
objectives,  as well as  a forward-looking review of the 
global  trade  and  financial  architecture  to  correct  its 
dysfunctions 
review  of 
international  economic  rules  must  form  part  of  wider 
efforts  to  forge  a  new  global  development  model. 
Indeed,  the  state  of  our  planet’s  environmental  health, 
and  above  all 
the  cultural  and  moral  crisis  of 
humankind  —  the  symptoms  of  which  have  been 
evident  around  the  world  for  some  time  —  demand 
this. 

These considerations should also inspire the work 
of  the  forthcoming  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable  Development,  to  be  held  in  June,  on  the 
conviction  that  “Human  beings  are  at  the  centre  of 
concerns for sustainable development”, as stated in the 
Principle  1  of  the  1992  Rio  Declaration  on  Environment 
and Development.  

The  sense  of  environmental  responsibility  and 
preservation  should  be  guided  by  our  awareness  of 
being  a  family  of  nations.  The  idea  of  “family” 
immediately  evokes  something  more 
than  merely 
functional  relationships  or  a  simple  convergence  of 
interests. A family is by nature a community based on 
interdependence,  mutual  trust,  mutual  aid  and  sincere 
respect.  Its  full  development  is  based  not  on  the 
supremacy of the strongest, but on the attention paid to 
the  weakest 
its 
responsibility  extends  to  future  generations.  Respect 
for  the  environment  should  make  us  more  attuned  to 
the needs of the most disenfranchised. It should create 
a  development  strategy  centred  on  the  individual  that 
promotes solidarity and the shared responsibility of all, 
including future generations. 

This  strategy  can  only  benefit  from  the  United 
Nations Conference on the Arms Trade Treaty, planned 
for  2012.  An  unregulated  and  non-transparent  arms 
trade has significant negative repercussions. It hampers 
integral  human  development  and  heightens  the  risk  of 
and  most  marginalized, 
and 
42 

11-51670 
linked 
Indeed, 
Indeed, 


conflicts,  especially  internal  conflicts,  and  instability. 
It fosters a culture of  violence and impunity, which is 
often 
to  such  criminal  activities  as  drug 
trafficking,  trafficking  in  human  beings  and  piracy. 
These  are  becoming  ever  more  serious  international 
problems.  

The  results  of  the  current  arms  trade  treaty 
process  will  test  the  true  willingness  of  States  to 
assume  their  moral  and  legal  responsibilities  in  that 
regard. The  international  community,  conscious  of  the 
great numbers of people affected by the illegal trade in 
arms  and  ammunition  and  aware  of  their  suffering, 
must  focus  on  concluding  an  arms  trade  treaty  that  is 
effective  and  enforceable. 
the  primary 
objective  of  the  treaty  should  be  not  only  to  regulate 
the  trade  in  conventional  arms  and  obstruct  the  black 
market, but also and most importantly to protect human 
life  and  build  a  world  more  respectful  of  human 
dignity. 

to 
building a world more respectful of human dignity will 
demonstrate  its  ability  to  effectively  carry  out  its 
mission,  which  is  to  help  the  family  of  nations  to 
pursue  the  common  objectives  of  peace,  security  and 
integral development for all. 

The Holy See is also concerned about the events 
unfolding  in  some  countries  of  North  Africa  and  the 
Middle  East.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
renew  the  appeal  made  by  the  Holy  Father  Benedict 
XVI,  who  called  on  all  citizens,  particularly  young 
people,  to  do  their  utmost  to  promote  the  common 
good and build societies in which poverty is overcome, 
in  which  every  political  choice  is  inspired  by  respect 
for human beings and in which peace and harmony will 
triumph over divisions, hatred and violence. 
the  United  Nations’  contribution 
A/66/PV.28
to 

A  final  observation  concerns  Palestine’s  request 
for  recognition  as  a  Member  State  of  the  United 
Nations,  made  here  on  23  September  by  the  President 
of  the  Palestinian  National  Authority,  Mr.  Mahmoud 
Abbas. The Holy See views this initiative as an attempt 
to  find  a  definitive  solution,  with  the  support  of  the 
international  community, 
the  question  already 
addressed  by  the  General  Assembly  in  its  resolution 
181  (II)  of  29  November  1947.  That  fundamental 
document  sets  down  the  legal  framework  for  the 
existence of two States. One of them has already been 
born,  while  the  other  has  not  yet  been  established, 
although nearly 65 years have passed. 

The  Holy  See  is  convinced  that  if  one  desires 
peace, brave decisions must be taken. It hopes that the 
competent bodies of the United Nations are resolved to 
help  effectively  implement  the  final  objective,  that  is, 
achieving  the  Palestinians’  right  to  have  their  own 
independent and sovereign State and the Israelis’ right 
to security, both States with internationally recognized 
borders.  

The  response  of  the  United  Nations,  whatever  it 
may be, will not be a complete solution. Lasting peace 
can  be  achieved  only  through  good-faith  negotiations 
between  Israelis  and  Palestinians,  avoiding  actions  or 
conditions that contradict declarations of goodwill. The 
Holy  See  therefore  urges  the  parties  to  return  to 
negotiations  with  resolve.  It  urgently  appeals  to  the 
international  community  to  increase  its  commitment 
and  stimulate  its  creativity  and  initiatives  in  order  to 
reach  a  lasting  peace,  in  respect  for  the  rights  of  the 
Israelis and the Palestinians. 
The President: As representatives are aware, this 

afternoon  the  General  Assembly  will  conclude  its 
deliberations on agenda item 8, “General debate”. It is 
my intention to present some concluding remarks at the 
end of that meeting.  

  The meeting rose at 1.30 p.m. 
11-51670 

43 
