
A/66/PV.31
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

31st plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 4 October 2011, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 





  The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.  


Agenda item 110 (continued)
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of  
the Organization (A/66/1) 
The  President:  Members  will  recall  that  the 

Secretary-General presented his annual report (A/66/1) 
to the General Assembly at its 11th plenary meeting, on 
21 September. 
Mr. Nishida (Japan): First of all, I would like to 

begin  by  congratulating  you,  Sir,  on  your  assumption 
of  duties  as  President  of  the  General Assembly  at  its 
sixty-sixth  session.  Japan  highly  respects  your  strong 
leadership  during  the  current  session  and  reaffirms  its 
commitment  to  contribute  to  your  work.  Let  me  also 
convey 
to  His  Excellency  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon  Japan’s  deep  appreciation  for  his  tireless 
efforts  in  guiding  the  diverse  activities  of  the  United 
Nations  and  for  his  latest  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Organization (A/66/1).  

I have distributed copies of my written statement 
in  the  Hall,  so  I  will  make  my  oral  statement  concise 
by focusing on the elements that I find most important. 
the  Secretary-General  mentioned  several 

times 
this  has  been  a  year  of 
extraordinary challenges for my country, Japan. As six 
months  have  passed  since 
the  great  East  Japan 
earthquake,  Japan  reiterates  her  sincere  gratitude  for 
the  helping  hands  extended  from  all  over  the  world. 
The  Government  of  Japan  has  been  utilizing  all  of  its 
in  his  report, 
As 
the 
target  date  of  2015, 
resources  to  restore  and  reconstruct  the  disaster-
affected  areas.  At  Fukushima  Daiichi  nuclear  power 
stations, efforts are being made to move up the existing 
target  period  in  order  to  achieve  cold  shutdown  status 
by the end of the calendar year.  

Although  some  countries  are,  regrettably,  still 
imposing undue restrictions on imports from Japan, our 
Government  will  continue  to  provide  prompt  and 
accurate  information  on  this  matter,  with  maximum 
transparency. 

Foremost  among  the  challenges  confronting  the 
United  Nations  is  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs).  In  order  to  achieve  the 
MDGs  by 
the  global 
community  must  demonstrate  clear  political  will  and 
work together with all stakeholders to deliver concrete 
results  in  the  remaining  period.  For  its  part,  Japan 
reiterates  its  unshaken  commitment  to  the  MDGs, 
focusing in particular on health and education. 

With regard to human security, a significant step 
forward  was  the  adoption  in  July  2010  of  resolution 
64/291,  entitled  “Follow-up  to  paragraph  143  on 
human security of the 2005 World Summit Outcome”. 
Based  on  that  resolution,  a  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  will  be  issued  during  the  sixty-sixth  session, 
and Japan hopes to discuss this very important subject 
in the General Assembly. 

operations 
United  Nations 
represent  the  realization  of  the  most  fundamental 
principles  of  the  Organization.  Japan  is  eager  to 
contribute  to  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  South 
peacekeeping 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-52968 (E) 
*1152968* 


to 
the  efforts  of 
Japan  Self-Defense  Forces 
A/66/PV.31 

Sudan in the fields in which it excels. That will include 
dispatching 
(JSDF) 
personnel to Mission headquarters as staff officers and 
possibly  sending  a  JSDF  engineering  unit  after 
necessary field study. 

Japan continues to work to support and advance a 
seamless approach to peacebuilding. The Peacebuilding 
Commission  has  the  mandate  to  promote  such  an 
integrated  strategy  with  the  aim  of  disrupting  the 
vicious  circle  of  conflict  and  poverty  and  to  fill  some 
of the most conspicuous gaps. 

The  United  Nations  must  also  play  a  proactive 
role  in  the  Middle  East  peace  process.  Japan  fully 
understands  the  earnest  aspirations  of  Palestinians  to 
build  their  own  nation  and  strongly  hopes  for  an 
immediate  resumption  of  direct  negotiations  between 
the parties. Japan calls on all concerned to refrain from 
any  provocative  actions  that  could  impede  the  peace 
process.  A  complete  freeze  on  settlement  activities  is 
essential  in  that  connection.  Japan  is  committed  to 
contribute  continuously 
the 
international  community  for  the  realization  of  a  two-
State solution. 

As  regards  a  new  Libya,  it  is  essential  that  the 
international  community  provide  continued  support. 
Japan  commends  United  Nations  leadership  in  the 
coordination  of  international  assistance.  Japan  will 
support  the  country’s  nation-building  efforts,  utilizing 
its expertise and technological capacity. In that regard, 
Japan  decided  to  contribute  $2  million  through  the 
International  Committee  of  the  Red  Cross  and  to 
support the initial release of up to $1.5 billion of frozen 
Libyan assets. 

In  our  efforts  to  promote  global  peace  and 
security,  nuclear  disarmament  and  non-proliferation  is 
a primary goal for all nations, including Japan. That is 
why Japan will again this year submit a draft resolution 
calling for united actions towards the total elimination 
of nuclear weapons. 
Our ultimate goal regarding climate change is an 

expeditious 
and 
comprehensive legal document that will establish a fair 
and  effective  international  framework  in  which  all 
major  economies  participate.  To 
is 
important 
the  upcoming 
to  make  progress  at 
seventeenth  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in 
Durban.  
that  end, 
adoption 
single 
new, 
of 
a 
it 
to 
support 
approach 
should  be 
that  regard, 
International 

seamlessly 
implemented  beyond  2012.  Japan  will  continue  to 
contribute, including through the early establishment of 
the  Green  Climate  Fund.  Japan  believes 
that  a 
transition  to  a  green  economy  is  an  effective  and 
achieve 
appropriate 
sustainable 
the  United  Nations 
development.  In 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
should 
provide  the  opportunity  to  express  the  determination 
and  concrete  policies  necessary  for  the  transition  to  a 
green economy. 

In  the  area  of  human  rights,  Japan  remains 
committed  to  its  active  role  in  the  discussions  in  the 
General  Assembly,  the  Third  Committee  and  the 
Human Rights Council. The work and the functions of 
the  Human  Rights  Council  should  be  continuously 
reviewed. 

Gender equality and the empowerment of women 
must be actively integrated into the work of the United 
Nations. Having seen the establishment of UN-Women 
in  the  past  year,  we  view  the  current  momentum  as 
opportune for renewal of our commitment to promoting 
the  advancement  of  gender  equality  and  women’s 
empowerment. 
Comprehensive  reform  of  the  United  Nations 

cannot  be 
the 
achievement  of  substantive  Security  Council  reform. 
The  intergovernmental  negotiations  held  during  the 
Assembly’s  sixty-fifth  session  provided 
increased 
momentum  to  that  endeavour.  We  must  accelerate  the 
stagnated  reform  process  with  proactive  commitment 
and  a  great  sense  of  urgency.  To 
that  end, 
Mr. President, we are counting on your keen awareness 
of  the  need  for  early  reform  of  the  Security  Council 
and  your  outstanding  leadership  to  bring  the  process 
forward in a transparent manner, in order to achieve a 
concrete outcome during the current session. 

The  intractable  stagnation  of  the  world  economy 
at present has adversely affected the financial situation 
of  Member  States.  Mindful  of  our  efforts  to  ensure 
transparent,  accountable  and  efficient  management  of 
the  United  Nations,  we  call  for  rationalization  of  the 
Secretariat. Redeployment of existing resources should 
be  the  first  approach  in  addressing  newly  mandated 
funding requirements. In the forthcoming consultations 
on the 2012-2013 proposed programme budget and the 
peacekeeping  operations  mission  budget,  utmost 
attention must be paid to financial discipline and cost-
successful  without 
considered 
2 

11-52968 
time, 
the  same 
impact  of 
the  world 
At  present 
the  profound 


effectiveness.  In  that  regard,  Japan  welcomes  the 
efforts  made  by  the  Secretary-General  to  reduce  the 
level of his proposed programme budget by 3 per cent. 

I  close  today  by  affirming  once  more  Japan’s 
willingness  to  participate  in  and  firm  commitment  to 
the  efforts  to  ensure  a  more  effective  and  efficient 
United Nations. 
Mr. Wang  Min  (China)  (spoke in Chinese): The 

Chinese  delegation  welcomes  the  report  of  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon on the work of the Organization 
(A/66/1).  

is  undergoing  major 
development, transformation and change. Multipolarization 
and  economic  globalization  are  deepening.  New 
changes have appeared in global economic governance. 
At 
the 
international  financial  crisis  has  yet  to  be  eliminated, 
and economic recovery is still faced with uncertainties. 
In  addition,  the  debt  crisis  remains  acute  and  bulk 
commodity  prices  continue  to  rise.  The  international 
security  situation  has  become  more  and  more 
complicated,  and  regional  hot  spots  keep  appearing. 
Situations  in  West  Asia  and  in  North  Africa  are  still 
turbulent. 

Over  the  past  year,  faced  with  multifaceted 
threats and challenges, the United Nations has actively 
promoted  multilateral  cooperation.  It  has  played  an 
important 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs),  responding  to  natural 
disasters,  providing  humanitarian  relief,  deploying 
peacekeeping  operations, 
facilitating  post-conflict 
reconstruction and addressing issues related to climate 
change and global health. In addition, it has done a lot 
in areas such as safeguarding energy and food security, 
combating terrorism and protecting human rights. 

Here  I  take  the  opportunity  to  express  my 
delegation’s  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for 
his hard and outstanding work over the past year.  

The  world  is  currently  at  a  new  critical  juncture 
in  its  development  efforts.  Sustainable  development 
remains  an  arduous  task.  The  unevenness  in  North-
South  development  is  still  pronounced. Achieving  the 
MDGs is a pressing issue.  

The  United  Nations  should  play  a  leading  and 
central  role  in  international  development.  The  most 
urgent task is to implement the various objectives and 
implementing 
role 
in 
A/66/PV.31
responsibilities, 
programmes. We should pay particular attention to the 
special difficulties of the developing countries.  

Next year the United Nations will hold the United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  in 
Brazil,  which  will  have  a  major  impact  on  the 
international  environment  and  development  agenda. 
China  hopes  that  the  Conference  will  take  stock  of 
international  cooperation  in  those  fields  over  the  past 
two  decades,  galvanize  consensus  and  take  specific 
actions  to  promote  the  global  cause  of  sustainable 
development. 

The  Conference  and  the  preparatory  process 
should  carry  forward  the  Rio  spirit  and  principles  of 
the 1992 Conference in Rio, especially the principle of 
common  but  differentiated 
and 
promote  progress  in  the  three  pillars  of  sustainable 
development in a balanced and coordinated fashion. At 
the  same  time,  they  should  respect  the  autonomy  of 
States  in  pursuit  of  sustainable  development  and  pay 
special attention to the concerns of developing States.  

Over the past few years food security has been a 
big  challenge.  The  most  severe  drought  in  the  past 
60 years is occurring in the Horn of Africa, leading to 
widespread  starvation.  Food  security  has  bearing  not 
only on the economies and livelihoods of countries and 
their  people,  but  also  on  global  development  and 
security.  

The  unequal  balance  between  food  supply  and 
demand is detrimental to the realization of sustainable 
peace 
the  world  and  common  prosperity.  To 
safeguard  food  security  in  the  world,  the  international 
community  should  adopt  the  principle  of  common 
development 
for 
coordination,  stabilize  the  prices  of  bulk  commodities 
such as food, and prevent excessive speculation. 
the  most  universal 

representative 
international, 
intergovernmental  organization.  It  is  also  the  platform 
on  which 
its 
to  practice  multilateralism.  Since 
founding, 
the  United  Nations  has  played  an 
irreplaceable  role  in  maintaining  world  peace  and 
promoting common development.  
In  light  of  the  changing  international  situation, 

China 
the  conduct  of  necessary  and 
reasonable  reform  by  the  United  Nations  so  as  to 
enhance  the  Organization’s  authority  and  efficiency 
and to respond to new challenges and threats, and thus 
The  United  Nations 
effective  measures 
authoritative 
supports 
take 
and 
and 
in 
is 
11-52968 

3 

the  common  vision  and  expectation  of 
A/66/PV.31 

to  better  implement  the  obligations  entrusted  by  the 
United  Nations  Charter.  That  is  based  on  the  United 
Nations need for self-perfection and development. It is 
also 
its 
Members.  

United Nations reform should be all-dimensional 
and  multisectoral.  It  should  also  achieve  good  results 
in 
the  field  of  development  and  give  necessary 
guarantees,  in  mechanisms  and  resources,  to  promote 
the  realization  of  the  MDGs,  so  that  the  majority  of 
developing countries can benefit from the reform.  
This  year  is  the  fortieth  anniversary  of  the 

People’s  Republic  of  China’s  resumption  of 
its 
legitimate membership in the United Nations. Over the 
past 40 years China has participated comprehensively, 
actively and deeply in United Nations affairs. The level 
of  cooperation  between  the  two  parties  has  been 
increasing  and  the  areas  of  cooperation  have  been 
expanding, and good results have been achieved.  
China has all along advocated for, and supported, 

the  United  Nations 
in 
international  affairs  and  has  made  unremitting  efforts 
to that end. As always, China will continue to abide by 
the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter  and  support  the  Organization  in  displaying  its 
advantages  so  that  it  will  become  an  envoy  in 
maintaining  world  peace,  a  pioneer  for  common 
development  and  an  example 
international 
cooperation.  

China  will  continue  to  actively  undertake  its 
international  obligations  to  the  best  of  its  abilities, 
adhere to the path of peaceful development, follow an 
independent and peaceful foreign policy, be committed 
to  creating  a  peaceful  international  environment,  and 
facilitate the common development of the world. 
Mr.  Srivali  (Thailand):  During  the  past  few 

years, the world has undergone multiple crises, natural 
and  man-made.  Often,  such  crises  have  demanded 
collective  responses,  and  the  international  community 
has  admirably  risen  to  the  occasion.  However,  some 
crises  are  more  complex  and  have  defied  easy 
solutions.  Early  warning,  monitoring  and  preventive 
mechanisms  are  desirable  but  are  not  always  easy  to 
implement.  The  United  Nations  thus  continues  to  be 
indispensable in setting common goals and leading the 
coordination of international efforts.  
to  play  a  central 
role 
for 
the  need 
to  promote 

As its Member States, we must each play our part 
in  supporting  the  work  of  this  institution,  for,  as 
imperfect as it may be, it remains our best hope in the 
face  of  the  new  challenges  that  will  surely  come  our 
way. 

Thailand concurs with the report of the Secretary-
General on the work of the Organization (A/66/1). We 
agree  that  we  must  find  innovative  ways  to  deal 
effectively  with  the  current  challenges  and  work 
together  with  States  and  non-State  partners  to  prepare 
for  the  many  tests  ahead.  Most  importantly,  Thailand 
commends  the  Secretary-General  for  prioritizing  the 
need  to  deliver  results  to  those  most  in  need,  and  for 
emphasizing 
sustainable 
development well beyond 2015, the agreed date for the 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. 

The  demands  placed  on  the  United  Nations 
indeed constitute a tall order, especially given resource 
constraints  and  often  complex  and  unpredictable 
conditions. Nevertheless, Thailand firmly believes that 
the United Nations, as an indispensable institution, can 
and must adapt to deliver the results expected of it. 
On  the  topic  of  delivering  results  for  those  most 

in  need,  I  would  like  to  share  some  of  Thailand’s 
views. 

First, sustainable development must place people 
at the centre. National and community-level ownership 
must  be  promoted.  Development  models  must  go 
beyond  aggregate  numbers  but  be  nuanced  enough  to 
take into account specific local contexts and real needs. 

reconstruction, 
international  assistance  should  be  guided  by  a  long-
term view. Domestic institutions must be strengthened 
so  that  they  have  the  capacity  to  deliver  services  to 
those  in  need  long  after  the  international  news  crews 
and the aid workers have left the scene. 

Thirdly,  good  governance  ensures  effective 
administration and policy implementation. Communication 
should  be  two-way,  so  that  the  people  are  kept  well 
informed and are well and truly heard. 

Fourthly,  international  cooperation  —  whether 
North-South,  South-South,  bilateral or triangular — is 
vital for the exchange of knowledge, best practices and 
skills.  The  United  Nations  can  do  much  to  facilitate 
that  process,  especially  in  the  areas  of  disaster-risk 
reduction and post-disaster response. 
post-crisis 
Secondly, 
in 
4 

11-52968 
strengthen 
Mr.  Khan
transparency,  as  well  as 



In facing global crises, natural or man-made, the 
United  Nations  should  strive  to  be  a  builder  of  trust, 
building  on 
its  unique  global  membership  and 
comprehensive work agenda. Trust among nations and 
in the United Nations system is necessary to ensure the 
smooth, effective and expeditious delivery of results. 
In  this  light,  Thailand  supports  reform  of  the 

its  effectiveness, 
United  Nations 
to 
accountability  and 
to 
encourage  and  ensure  greater  participation  of  all 
Member States. 

Regarding the work of the Organization, Member 
States  should  be  closely  consulted  and  kept  informed 
on  the  work  and  initiatives  of  the  Secretariat,  United 
Nations  mandate  holders,  agencies, 
funds  and 
programmes  on  a  regular  basis  and  in  a  transparent 
manner. 

Furthermore,  close  consultations  between  the 
United  Nations  country  team  and  the  Government 
concerned  regarding 
the  country  programme  will 
ensure  that  the  activities  of  the  United  Nations  on  the 
ground  truly  reflect  priority  needs  and  that  their 
implementation yields optimal results. 

In  closing,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  Thailand’s 
support  for  the  realization  of  the  vision  that  the 
Secretary-General  has  outlined  in  his  comprehensive 
report. 
(Indonesia):  On  behalf  of  my 

delegation, allow me first of all to thank the Secretary-
General for his report on the work of the Organization. 
We share many of his assessments of the current world 
situation and the activities of the United Nations during 
the past year. 
However, we must ensure that the United Nations 

delivers.  We  must  deliver  in  order  to  achieve  the 
MDGs  and  other  internationally  agreed  development 
goals.  We  must  deliver  to  bring  peace  to  places  of 
conflict.  And,  we  must  deliver  to  promote  human 
rights,  the  rule  of  law  and  democracy.  It  is  in  this 
context that my delegation welcomes the report before 
us  (A/66/1),  which  focuses  on  three  critical  areas.  I 
wish to take this opportunity to share some thoughts on 
each of those three issues. 

First,  in  order  for  the  United  Nations  to  deliver 
results  to  the  people,  addressing  development  is  key. 
The  global  partnership  on  development  is  of  vital 
importance because of the fast approaching deadline of 
A/66/PV.31
the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). It is even 
more  vital  because  of  the  persistent  effects  of  the 
economic and financial crisis, together with high food 
and energy prices. 

In that regard, we must continue to encourage all 
partners,  including  developed  countries,  international 
organizations and international financial institutions, to 
work  together  to  ensure  the  achievement  of  MDG 
targets.  The  volatile  food  crisis  and  the  impact  of 
climate  change  have  exacerbated  the  situation  in 
Africa, particularly in the Horn of Africa. 

While  we  fully  concur  with  the  need  to  increase 
development  assistance  to Africa,  we  should  also  find 
an  effective  way  to  translate  our  pledges  into  specific 
and  concrete  programmes  targeted  specifically  at  the 
immediate needs of the continent. 

With regard to peace and security, we must make 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions  reliable  at  all 
times  and  under  all  conditions.  We  must  ensure 
availability  of  their  equipment  and  other  resources,  as 
well as adequate training of personnel, so that they will 
be equal to the complexity of their mandated tasks. 
We  continue  to  face  natural  disasters  that  create 

requiring 
unprecedented  humanitarian 
international 
robust 
emergency  response and disaster preparedness scheme 
as  a  long-term  investment  that  will  contribute  to  the 
achievement  of  humanitarian 
and  development 
objectives. 

We  need  to  reaffirm  that  all  human  rights  are 
universal, indivisible, interdependent and inter-related, 
and  must  therefore  be  treated  in  a  fair  and  equal 
manner,  on  the  same  footing,  and  with  the  same 
emphasis.  

While  welcoming  the  commitments  and  various 
measures  undertaken  by  Governments  to  reform  and 
meet  the  demands  of  the  people,  we  are  concerned 
about  the  escalation  of  tension  and  violence.  We 
underline  the  need  for  an  inclusive  and  people-led 
political  process  aimed  at  effectively  addressing  the 
legitimate aspirations of citizens. 
Secondly, in securing global goods, even with the 

promising  progress  on  climate  change,  there  is  still 
much  that  has  to  be  achieved  between  now  and  the 
United Nations Climate Change Conference in Durban 
later  this  year.  What  is  of  the  most  concern  is  the 
downward spiral we are witnessing in the negotiations 
response.  We  must  build  a 
challenges 
11-52968 

5 

and 
that 
poverty 
alleviation 
Public  health 
issues  constitute 
A/66/PV.31 

since  the  United  Nations  Climate  Change  Conference 
in  Cancún  in  2010.  This  is  the  most  crucial  year  for 
climate change negotiations. 

the  major 
component  of  the  MDGs,  in  terms  of  nutrition, 
maternal  health,  child  health,  water  and  sanitation,  as 
well  as  HIV/AIDS  and  other  communicable  diseases. 
Furthermore, 
gender 
mainstreaming  are  closely  linked  to  public  health 
intervention. 
We  are  remained  concerned  that  each  year, 

millions  of  women  and  children  die  of  preventable 
causes.  Consequently,  we  must  make  a  decisive  move 
together  to  improve  the  health  of  every  woman  and 
every child around the world. 

We  are  further  concerned  about  the  many  forms 
of  threat  to  international  peace  and  security.  We  are 
worried 
the  continued  existence  of  nuclear 
weapons  and  the  increasing  arms  race  cast  a  shadow 
over the stability and security of the world. 

We are alarmed by continued terrorist acts around 
the  globe.  However,  all  measures  to  counter  terrorism 
must be consistent with the rule of law and a deep and 
abiding  respect  for  human  rights.  They  must  be  in 
accordance  with 
the 
Charter of the United Nations. 

reinvigorated  multilateral 
disarmament diplomacy with enhanced engagement by 
all relevant stakeholders, including civil society, could 
galvanize political power.  

Thirdly,  we  can  only  create  a  stronger  United 
Nations, if we have a reformed Organization. We must 
persevere  in  strengthening  the  General  Assembly,  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  and  their  subsidiary 
organs,  as  well  as  the  Human  Rights  Council.  The 
Peacebuilding Commission should play a stronger role 
in helping countries emerging from conflict. As to the 
Security Council, it needs to be reformed to reflect the 
current  world  situation  and 
it  more 
representative, accountable and effective. 

We  are  very  much  appreciative  of  the  Secretary-
General’s  effort  to  strengthen  the  Organization  by 
overseeing a strategy to promote gender balance and by 
adopting  various  policies  designed  to  empower  and 
promote women in the Secretariat. 
We  believe 
international 
to  make 
law, 
including 
that 
the 
that 
We  acknowledge 

We  consider  system-wide  coherence  as  an 
integrated process, instead of a divided one. We believe 
that  all  five  relevant  areas  within  the  system-wide 
coherence  are  strongly  interconnected  and  need  to  be 
discussed in a comprehensive and balanced manner. 

We also believe that cooperation and partnership 
between the United Nations and regional organizations 
are  key  in  addressing  today’s  global  challenges.  As 
Chair  of  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations 
(ASEAN), we are also ready and willing to enter into a 
strategic partnership  with  the United Nations. We will 
lend  our  efforts  to  develop  greater  cohesion  and  a 
common  platform  on  global  issues  in  order  to  pursue 
the  goal  of  an  ASEAN  community  within  a  global 
community of nations. 

formulation  and 
implementation of global policy cannot be achieved by 
Governments  alone.  The  role  of  civil  society  and  the 
business  community  is  essential.  If  we  want  our  work 
to achieve the goals of the United Nations, engagement 
and partnership with them are required. 

Let  me  conclude  on  a  more  personal  note.  If  we 
maintain  a  spirit  of  friendship  and  open  dialogue,  we 
will  be  able  to  advance  the  agenda  before  us  at  the 
sixty-sixth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  In  this 
respect,  Mr.  President,  you  can  count  on 
the 
cooperation and support of my delegation. 
Mr.  Nkombela  (South  Africa):  My  delegation 

would like to thank the Secretary-General for his report 
contained  in  document  A/66/1.  I  wish  to  refer  to  the 
following elements of the Secretary-General’s report. 
My  delegation  would  like  to  re-emphasize  the 

fact 
that  development 
the 
empowerment  of  women.  The  United  Nations  should 
put  women  at  the  centre  of  development  so  as  to 
achieve the Millennium Development Goals. 

The United  Nations should continue to  prioritize 
the  development  needs  of  Africa  in  its  pursuit  for 
sustainable  and  inclusive  economic  growth.  This  year 
marks the tenth anniversary of the New Partnership for 
Africa’s  Development 
the 
continent’s  premier  framework  for  economic,  social 
and  political  advancement.  The  past  ten  years  have 
provided increased confidence and hope about what is 
achievable  in  Africa.  The  Organization’s  support  for 
the efforts to achieve the successful implementation of 
NEPAD is therefore prudent. 
impossible  without 
(NEPAD),  which 
is 
is 
6 

11-52968 



My  delegation  commends  the  United  Nations  in 
its  support  of  national  authorities  in  the  area  of 
humanitarian  assistance.  We  would  encourage  it  to 
redouble its  efforts to provide humanitarian assistance 
to  the  Horn  of  Africa,  which,  owing  to  drought,  is 
experiencing  the  most  severe  food  crisis  in  the  world 
today. 

South  Africa  will  host  the  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change  in  Durban  from  28  November  to 
9 December. The question we in the Organization need 
to focus on is how to deal with the issue of the second 
commitment  period  of 
the  Kyoto  Protocol.  The 
outcome  should  guarantee  progress  and  produce  some 
sense of the legal framework vis-à-vis both the Kyoto 
Protocol and the Convention. That is the most pressing 
issue. Substantive progress is also needed on the means 
of  implementation,  especially  on  the  set  of  finance-
related issues, which includes the design of the Green 
Climate  Fund  and  the  functions  of  the  Standing 
Committee, as well as sources of funding and the scale 
of finance. 

My delegation is concerned about the continuing 
stalemate in the disarmament machinery of the United 
Nations.  One  of  the  outcomes  of  the  first  Special 
Session on Disarmament (SSOD-I) was recognition of 
the  need  for  “a  single  multilateral  disarmament 
negotiating  forum  of  limited  size  taking  decisions  on 
the basis of consensus” (resolution S-10/2, para. 120), 
namely,  the  Conference  on  Disarmament.  In  the  light 
of  the  past  achievements  of  the  Conference,  it  is 
regrettable that that institution has for many years now 
failed  to  fulfil  its  basic  mandate.  As  a  result  of  the 
continuing deadlock, many have understandably started 
to  question  the  Conference’s  relevance  and  value  as  a 
forum for pursuing disarmament goals. 

Another  result  of  SSOD-I  was  the  establishment 
of  the  United  Nations  Disarmament  Commission  as  a 
deliberative body on disarmament and subsidiary organ 
of the General Assembly. The Commission is  also not 
fulfilling  its  mandate,  and  this  year  again  failed  to 
produce any concrete recommendations. My delegation 
considers  this  an  unfortunate  trend  in  an  Organization 
like ours that was established with the aim of ensuring 
international peace and security. 

It is my delegation’s opinion that there can be no 
development without peace. In that context, we would 
like 
for  a  more  concerted 
the  need 
to  stress 
A/66/PV.31
In  conclusion,  we  thank  the  Secretary-General 
international  effort  to  promote  peace  and  security, 
particularly  in  Africa.  The  United  Nations  should 
recognize the need to develop a strong partnership with 
the African Union and its subregional organizations in 
order  to  encourage  an  early  response  to  disputes  and 
emerging  conflicts.  It  is  also  important  that  the 
Security Council be reformed so that it reflects global 
geopolitical  realities. The African  and  Latin American 
continents  have  waited  too  long  to  gain  permanent 
representation. 

and the Secretariat for their service to this institution. 
Mr.  Abdelaziz  (Egypt):  At  the  outset,  I  would 

like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  valuable 
report on the work of the Organization (A/66/1), which 
reflects  his  clear  vision  and  firm  determination  to 
enhance  multilateralism  and  strengthen  the  role  and 
authority  of  the  United  Nations.  As  this  report  is  the 
Secretary-General’s  last  report  on  his  first  term  in 
office,  and  comes  on  the  heels  of  his  second  term,  I 
would  like  once  again  to  congratulate  him  on  the 
confidence  of  Member  States  that  resulted  in  his 
unanimous appointment to a second term. 
the 

Secretary-General 
and 
determination in dealing with many of the issues in the 
international  arena,  from  supporting  the  results  of  the 
free and fair elections in Côte d’Ivoire; to backing the 
return  to  normalcy  in  Somalia  and  Afghanistan  and 
many other parts of the world; to playing a leading role 
in the search for a solution to the Arab-Israeli conflict, 
to  name  only  a  few.  His  support  of  Egypt  after  the 
revolution of 25 January is yet another milestone in his 
achievements.  We  thank  him  for  his  visit  in  March, 
which opened the door  for  much-needed support  from 
the  United  Nations  for  the  transitional  Government’s 
efforts  to  return  life  to  normalcy  and  establish  solid 
foundations  for  a  democratic  society  that  has  full 
respect  for  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms 
and applies the rule of law. 

Over  the  few  days  of  the  high-level  segment  of 
this  session,  the  Secretary-General  convened  eight 
high-level meetings, on both a thematic and a country 
basis,  setting  a  new  record  for  a  proactive  approach 
that should be followed — from dealing with terrorism, 
to  nuclear  safety  and  security,  to  enhancing  the 
effectiveness of the disarmament machinery, to human 
trafficking and to extensive discussions of situations in 
the  report, 
leadership 
shown 
has 
Over 
the  year  covered 
in 
11-52968 

7 

A/66/PV.31 

many  countries  around 
the  world.  We  greatly 
appreciate  the  Secretary-General’s  initiative  in  that 
regard. 

What  do  we  now  expect  from  the  Secretary-
General in the first year of his second term? We expect 
full  support  for  the  establishment  of  a  sovereign, 
independent  Palestinian  State,  with  East  Jerusalem  as 
its capital, a State that is a full Member of the United 
Nations,  in  fulfilment  of  a  long-overdue  international 
commitment.  We  expect  speedy  progress,  working 
along with the three depositary States of the Treaty on 
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, in selecting 
a facilitator and a host country that enjoy the consensus 
of the regional countries,  and to proceed energetically 
with  convening  a  2012  conference  on  establishing  a 
zone  free  of  nuclear  weapons  and  weapons  of  mass 
destruction  in  the  Middle  East.  We  expect  redoubled 
attention to Africa’s developmental needs and those of 
the 
least-developed  countries.  We  expect  more 
concerted efforts on the part of the United Nations and 
the  international  community  to  assist  the  Republic  of 
South  Sudan  in  building  its  national  capacities  in 
various fields. 

We  expect  a  proactive  approach  that  will  ensure 
the success of the 2012 United Nations Conference on 
Sustainable  Development  and  set  in  motion  an  active 
action plan towards sustainable development, based on 
its  three  pillars.  We  expect  a  successful  conclusion  at 
the  coming  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change in 
Durban that will save our planet. We expect reform of 
governance  structures  at  the  international  level  that 
will enhance the voice and participation of developing 
countries  in  the  United  Nations  and  enhance  the 
Organization’s role vis-à-vis other emerging structures. 

We  expect  more  attention  to  be  paid  to  younger 
generations 
and 
employment.  We  expect  a  strong  drive  towards  full 
respect  for  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms, 
and  more  coordinated  efforts  to  combat  terrorism  and 
organized  crime,  and 
roots  of 
understanding between civilizations and religions. 

The expectations are very high, and cover a wide 
range  of  issues,  not  all  of  which  I  can  touch  on  here. 
But Egypt trusts that the Secretary-General is keeping 
an  eye  on  each  of  them,  and  will  spare  no  effort  to 
achieve them. For him to succeed, however, we need a 
strong  political  commitment  from  each  and  every  one 
to  deepen 
education, 
training 
and 
their 
the 
the  United  Nations  at 
of  us  to  achieving  those  objectives  and  more,  and  to 
keeping 
the  core  of 
multilateralism. 
Mr. Diallo (Senegal) (spoke in French): I should 

like to take the opportunity afforded, at the start of the 
session,  by  the  review  of  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  on  the  work  of  the  Organization  (A/66/1)  to 
once again congratulate you warmly, Mr. President, on 
behalf  of  my  delegation,  on  your  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth 
session. As  you  strive  to  fulfil  your  exciting  mission, 
Sir,  you  can  count  on  the  active  support  of  the 
Senegalese delegation. 

All the thinking that we shared during the general 
debate  only  a  few  days  ago  calls  for  a  new  way  of 
thinking and  acting by the international community in 
crafting bold solutions with a view to freeing our world 
from  the  many  base  actions  that  prevent  humankind 
from thriving. In that respect, it appears clear to us that 
we need to take a closer look at mediation paths so that 
we  can,  on  the  one  hand,  prevent  conflicts  with  their 
always tragic consequences, and, on the other, wrestle 
down the  exorbitant  costs  of peacekeeping operations. 
Here,  emphasis  should  be  placed  on  the  underlying 
causes  of  crises  by  combating,  in  particular,  cross-
border  crime,  drug  trafficking,  the  illicit  flow  of  arms 
and  all  forms  of  human  rights  violations,  while  at  the 
same time promoting good governance and democracy. 

While  it  is  undeniable  that  as  a  result  of  such 
activities the United Nations is the crucial platform in 
the  search  for  solutions  to  existing  concerns,  we  must 
recognize  that,  given  the  complexity  of  emerging 
challenges,  any  weakness,  slowness  or  negligence 
might  undermine  the  effectiveness  of  the  creditable 
actions that we conduct. 

Accordingly,  we  should  pay  particular  attention 
to  the  changes  that  have  occurred  in  the  Middle  East, 
which  will  certainly  have  a  decisive  impact  on  peace 
and stability in the region. As a universal Organization, 
the  United  Nations  has  the  main  responsibility  to  use 
its  prerogatives  to  find  optimal  responses  to  the 
obstacles before us in our ongoing quest for peace. We 
must  break  through  the  status  quo  to  find  vital 
solutions  for  creating  conditions  for  coexistence  in 
peace and security between Israelis and Palestinians.  
require 
the 

independent, 
establishment  next 
sovereign  and  viable  Palestinian  State,  in  secure  and 
a  doubt 
to  Israel  of  an 
That  will  without 
8 

11-52968 
We  welcome 
the  determined  action  of 


internationally  recognized  borders.  That  is  the  only 
possible means of salvation in the region.  

the 
international  community  that  has  allowed  our  sister 
republic  of  Côte  d’Ivoire  to  emerge,  finally,  from  the 
impasse that it was in as a result of 10 years of crisis, 
with  disastrous  consequences  for  the  entire  West 
African  subregion.  Similarly,  thanks  to  our  joint 
efforts,  the  security  situation  in  a  number  of  African 
countries,  particularly  in  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau  and 
the Sudan, has made significant progress.  

But that progress must not cause us to lose sight 
of  the  tragic  situation  in  Somalia,  which  deserves 
greater  attention  from  us.  Saving  future  generations 
from the scourge of war requires that we be determined 
to promote and protect human rights, as we can see in 
the major upheavals throughout the world. In fact,  we 
have  a  common  responsibility  to  act  so  that  the 
atrocities  resulting  from  the  commission  of  serious 
crimes of violence do not recur. We must also work for 
the emergence of an international criminal justice that 
is effective, just, impartial and apolitical. 
though 

satisfactory  progress  has  been  made,  to  ask  how  the 
United  Nations  intervenes  in  its  theatres  of  operation 
and  to  pursue  reforms  already  undertaken  for  greater 
effectiveness of peacekeeping operations, which should 
be part of peacebuilding. Without sustainable peace, all 
efforts  at  development  are  doomed  to  failure.  In  that 
respect,  we  should  mobilize  our  efforts  to  ensure  the 
adoption in 2012 of a robust arms trade treaty. 

Today more than ever, the globalization of crises 
that transcend borders reminds us of the vital need for 
a  multilateral  approach,  one  that  is  more  engaged  and 
inclusive,  if  we  wish  to  have  a  positive  collective 
impact on the future of humankind. In truth, more than 
a need, it is for us an urgent necessity that we rethink 
and reformulate the methods and means of action that 
have guided us up to now. 

As  the  Secretary-General  says  in  his  report,  we 
are struck by the observation that our progress has been 
timid  in  our  common  objective  of  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  by  2015.  It 
has  been  clearly  established  that  we  can  now  succeed 
only if we are effective in honouring our commitments 
within  the  existing  frameworks  and  partnerships  in 
order  to,  inter  alia,  manage  debt,  promote  free  and 
equitable  trade,  improve  the  volume,  quality  and 
It  would  also  be  appropriate,  even 
11-52968 

A/66/PV.31
century.  Similarly,  we 
mechanisms  for  providing  assistance,  and  facilitate 
access to modern technologies. 

What  is  most  important  for  us  in  Africa  is 
re-establishing  a  global  order  where  our  continent 
would  fully  play  the  role  that  it  should  have.  In  that 
respect,  the  Secretary-General  is  correct  in  affirming 
that Africans  need  neither  pity  nor  charity;  what  they 
do  need  are  the  tools  that  would  allow  them  to  create 
jobs and income. Transparency, openness, inclusion — 
those should be the key words of the new order that we 
wish to build together. 

In  conclusion,  Mr.  President,  I  would  like  to 
share with you the conviction that, if we are united in 
one  and  the  same  movement,  we  will  be  in  a  better 
position to prevent the risks of disaster and reach a new 
global  agreement  on  climate  change. There  can  be  no 
denying  ─  those  are  the  challenges  and  threats  of  the 
twenty-first 
should  do 
everything  we  can  to  succeed  in  our  crusade  against 
terrorism  by,  among  other  things,  getting  down  to 
adopting  a  global  convention  on  that  subject.  The 
challenges are, of course, enormous, but the wager can 
be  won  if  we  match  the  complexity  of  the  task  with 
faith and commitment. 
Mr.  Rosenthal  (Guatemala)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

We  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report,  which 
he  presented  to  us,  as  he  does  every  year,  under  the 
symbol A/66/1. We agree with him that we are living in 
a  time  of  global  transition  and,  we  would  add, 
uncertainty.  Certainly,  to  paraphrase  the  Secretary-
General, the status quo is being weakened, and we are 
moving  towards  something  new,  the  precise  contours 
of which have not yet emerged.  

Economies  that  were  traditional  leaders  of  the 
world  economy  are  now  facing  serious  structural 
problems, which tends to reduce their performance. At 
the same time, some emerging economies appear to be 
replacing the traditional leaders as the drivers of world 
economic  growth.  The  gap  that  separates  the  poorest 
fifth of the world from the richest tenth appears to be 
growing,  adding  new  reasons  for  the  frustrations  of 
tens of millions of persons, especially youth, who feel 
displaced and without a future. 
In  addition,  over  the  brief  time  that  has  elapsed 

since 
the  report  was  first  circulated,  short-term 
prospects for the world economy have worsened, in the 
light  of  the  indicators  from  both  the  European  Union 
and  the  United  States  of  America.  Again,  just  as 
9 

A/66/PV.31 

happened in 2008 and 2009, there is a danger that those 
trends will extend to the rest of the global economy. 

At  the  same  time,  the  displaced  persons  alluded 
to earlier have acquired a voice they never had before, 
thanks to the new communications technologies at their 
disposal.  We  are  observing  unprecedented  changes  in 
some  countries,  where  structures  of  authoritarian 
power, carefully built over decades, are giving way to 
the  voice  of  the  previously  displaced,  who  demand  a 
better  future.  That  constitutes  a  source  of  hope  for 
some of us, and a threat to stability for others. Change, 
after all, always entails risks, but also opportunities. 

There  are  other  unprecedented  phenomena.  All 
humankind  is  facing  a  challenge  whose  presence  was 
discernible for a number of decades, but which is now 
making  itself  evident  with  more  tangible  impacts.  We 
refer  to  the  irreversible  harm  we  are  inflicting  on  our 
common  habitat,  the  earth,  not  only  by  preying  on  its 
natural  resources,  but  also  through  the  emission  of 
greenhouse  gases,  which  have  been  shown  to  have 
disastrous  consequences  on  the  environment.  The 
abnormal  number  of  droughts,  on  the  one  hand,  and 
torrential  floods,  on  the  other,  which  have  stressed  to 
the limits the resources of the humanitarian aid that the 
United  Nations  provides, 
tangible 
manifestation of this phenomenon. 

Finally, on matters of peace and security, we face 
a  panorama 
the  best  of  cases,  can  be 
characterized  as  consisting  of  lights  and  shadows. 
While  some  progress  has  been  achieved  in  the  fight 
against  terrorism,  new  hot  spots  of  indiscriminate 
violence  flare  in  places  such  as  Afghanistan  and 
Pakistan, along with a resurgence of piracy on the high 
seas.  While  we  celebrate  the  peaceful  solution  of  a 
longstanding  dispute,  reflected  in  the  creation  of  the 
new State, South Sudan, new outbreaks  of tension  are 
appearing, both in Africa and in the Middle East. 
This translates into a complex and packed agenda 

for 
the  United  Nations, 
its  dimensions: 
maintaining  peace  and  security,  defending  human 
rights, 
long-term 
development,  providing  humanitarian  assistance  and 
responding  to  new  challenges,  which  range  from 
combating  transnational  crime  to  climate  change. 
Hence, 
the 
Organization  is  adequately  equipped  and  organized  to 
deal  with  such  challenges,  when  its  current  structure 
eternal  question  of  whether 
is  yet  another 
sustainable 
promoting 
that, 
in 
in  all 
and 
the 
law.  The  report 
was  designed  for  a  different  world,  that  of  the  second 
half of the 20th century. 

The report of the Secretary-General addresses all 
of  those  challenges  in  its  first  four  chapters,  which 
cover the traditional four pillars of development, peace 
and  security,  humanitarian  affairs,  human  rights  and 
rule  of 
then  presents  a  novel 
configuration  entitled  “Securing  global  goods”,  which 
includes  climate  change,  global  health,  countering 
terrorism,  and  disarmament  and  non-proliferation.  In 
each  case,  an  attempt  is  made  to  take  the  measure  of 
progress  already  made  and  the  long  road  yet  to  be 
covered.  One  can  agree  or  disagree  with 
the 
assessments,  but  it  should  be  recognized  that  the 
Secretary-General’s  presentation  is  nuanced  and  takes 
into  account  the  enormous  differences  experienced  by 
different  countries,  and  the  crucial  importance  of 
analyzing each case on its own merits. 

The  next-to-last  chapter  of  the  report  addresses 
our  own  Organization,  again  with  an  analysis  of 
progress  in  the  matter  of  system-wide  coherence.  The 
creation  of  UN-Women  is  offered  as  a  paradigmatic 
example  of  progress  and  reform.  It  is  important  to 
acknowledge  the  important  advances  that  have  been 
made  in  adapting  the  Organization  to  new  demands. 
The best example lies in the significant transformations 
introduced in the various United Nations peacekeeping 
operations  dispersed  across 
the  globe.  Important 
improvements  are  also  reported  in  the  capacity  of  the 
Organization to deal with natural disasters.  

But  there  are  other  areas,  such  as  the  reform  of 
the 
three  main 
and 
especially  the  Security  Council,  where  we  remain 
stalled  after 
fruitless  dialogue. 
Responsibility  for  the  latter  situation  lies,  of  course, 
with  our  own  intergovernmental  forum,  the  General 
Assembly,  which  has  not  found  the  way  to  reach  a 
consensus, for reasons that are well known. 

The  last  chapter  of  the  report  arrives  at  a 
conclusion  with  which  we  believe  that  all  delegations 
can concur: the need for the United Nations has never 
been  greater  than  it  is  now,  given  the  need  to  address 
the  diverse  requirements  and  demands  of  today’s 
world. Here, the Secretary-General makes a clarion call 
for  all  Member  States  and  the  Secretariat  to  work 
together.  Speaking  for  my  own  delegation,  we  answer 
that call in the affirmative. 
intergovernmental  bodies, 
two  decades  of 
10 

11-52968 
in 


Mrs. Kolontai (Belarus) (spoke in Russian): The 

Byelorussian  delegation  welcomes 
the  Secretary-
General’s  report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization 
(A/66/1). We note the constructive nature of the report 
with  its  approaches  to  planning  the  work  of  the 
Organization for the medium and long terms. 

We welcome the report’s content as a conceptual 
approach to dealing with a host of topical questions on 
the  international  agenda.  First  of  all,  the  report  notes 
measures  aimed  at  accelerating  progress 
the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals, 
which  were  set  forth  in  the  Millennium  Declaration 
(resolution 55/2). 

We  support  the  Secretary-General’s  commitment 
to  working  towards  the  development  of  ideas  for  a 
framework  programme  for  development  for  the  post-
2015  period,  with  concrete  recommendations  to  be 
made  in  2012.  In  this  regard,  we  place  high  hopes  on 
the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development,  to  be  held  in  Rio  de  Janeiro  next  June. 
Belarus is ready to play an active role in preparing for 
the Conference and to work on its outcome document. 
Faced  with  the  threat  of  a  new  wave  of  global 

crises,  the  United  Nations  must  play  a  leading  role  in 
restoring 
that 
connection,  the  efforts  of  the  Organization  to  seek  a 
balance  between  the  interests  of  various  groups  of 
States  and  cooperation  with  middle-income  countries. 
We  are  convinced  that  coordinated  measures  on  the 
part  of  the  United  Nations  to  orient  the  operational 
bodies  of  the  Organization  towards  a  fuller  and  more 
effective  response  to  the  particular  needs  of  this  large 
group  of  countries  would  help  improve  the  situation. 
Bearing in mind the destructive potential of the global 
crisis in terms of using socio-economic pretexts to stir 
up  clashes  between  countries,  we  believe  it  necessary 
for  the  United  Nations  to  focus  on  a  systematic 
handling of current issues and to make as much use as 
possible  of 
instruments  of 
preventive diplomacy.  
We view preventive diplomacy as one of the most 

effective  ways  of  preserving  peace.  Belarus 
is 
unequivocally  against  the  use  of  force  in  settling 
conflicts,  because  it  often  has  unpredictable  negative 
consequences and does not meet the interests of long-
term  stabilization.  We  believe 
is  no 
alternative to a political dialogue.  
the  world  economy.  We  note, 
the  entire  arsenal  of 
there 
that 
in 
A/66/PV.31
In 
the  need 
that  regard,  we  emphasize 

to 
strengthen  the  Organization’s  capabilities  in  peace 
mediation,  by  strengthening  measures  aimed  at 
preventing  the  initial  causes  of  conflicts  and  making 
fuller  use  of  opportunities  afforded  by  regional  and 
subregional  organizations,  such  as 
the  Collective 
Security Treaty Organization (CSTO), which are in the 
best  position  to  know  about  the  problems  within  their 
areas of responsibility. Belarus, as chair of the CSTO, 
is prepared to do everything it can to help here. 

We share the Secretary-General’s serious concern 
regarding the lack of noticeable progress in the work of 
the Conference on Disarmament. It is our position that 
the Conference on Disarmament is a unique negotiating 
body  on  questions  of  disarmament  and  international 
security  and  has  global  significance.  In  our  opinion, 
progress  in  the  Conference  depends  on  the  political 
will  of  the  group  of  the  world’s  leading  States  with 
respect  to  starting  a  negotiating  process  for  nuclear 
disarmament.  

Belarus  supports  efforts  aimed  at  crafting  a  new 
international instrument that would help deal with key 
problems  stemming  from  the  uncontrolled  spread  of 
conventional  weapons  on  a  global  scale.  To  become 
universal, such an instrument would have to be adhered 
to by all States without exception; it would have to be 
discussed  only  at  the  United  Nations,  and  a  final 
decision would have to be adopted strictly on the basis 
of  consensus.  To  be  effective,  it  must  be  aimed  at 
achieving  concrete  goals  and  purposes  flowing  from 
the  key  problems  affecting  the  interests  of  all  States 
Members of the United Nations. 

terrorism  remains  a  significant 
threat  to  international  peace  and  security.  Recent  acts 
of terrorism have confirmed that even socially well-off 
and  politically  stable  States  are  vulnerable  in  the  face 
of such threats. We are convinced that this evil can be 
eliminated  only  by  consolidating 
the  mutually 
reinforcing  efforts  of  Governments  and  organizations 
at  the  regional  and  international  levels.  Important 
measures 
the 
comprehensive  convention  on  international  terrorism, 
strict  compliance  with  the  Global  Counter-Terrorism 
Strategy,  providing 
and 
building  up 
to  combat 
terrorism. 

We  would  also  like  to  draw  the  Assembly’s 
attention  to  the  need  to  develop  global  measures  to 
the  capacities  of  States 
completing  work 
International 
international 
include 
on 
assistance 
11-52968 

11 

in 
information 
the  use  of 
law  as  a  deterring 
their  sovereign  rights  or 
A/66/PV.31 

technologies  for 
counter 
propagandizing  violence,  recruitment  for 
terrorist 
groups,  and  popularizing  or  justifying  terrorism.  We 
share the position of the Secretary-General on the need 
to  increase  the  effectiveness  of  measures  designed  to 
uphold the rule of law. We express the hope that, at the 
opening  of  the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  a  high-level  event  on  the  rule  of  law  will 
help  preserve  and  strengthen  the  existing  system  of 
international 
factor  against 
lawlessness and legal nihilism. 

With  respect  to  the  concept  of  responsibility  to 
protect, we know that it needs to be clearly formulated 
with  an  exhaustive  list  of  criteria  and  conditions  for 
implementation.  The  concept  cannot  and  must  not  be 
used 
to  put  pressure  on  sovereign  States.  The 
responsibility to protect should not condone violations 
of the principles of the sovereign equality of States or 
non-interference 
the 
non-use of force. 

The  use  of  military  force  by  the  international 
community  must  exceptional  in  practice  and  must  be 
carried  out  in  strict  conformity  with  the  Charter.  We 
believe  it  necessary  to  provide  for  the  appropriate 
international  legal  strengthening  of  the  principle  of 
responsibility  to  protect,  and  mechanisms  to  prevent 
abuses must be based on strict compliance by Member 
States  with  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
obligatory rules of international law.  

Global  partnerships  can  serve  as  an  important 
instrument in preventing crises, a concept that Belarus 
has  been  actively  supporting.  We  are  pleased  to  note 
the  further  strengthening  of  partnering  relationships 
between  the  United  Nations  and  other  international 
organizations,  groups  of  Member  States,  civil  society 
and the private sector, for the purposes of development. 
We  take  note  of  the  measures  adopted  aimed  at 
ensuring  a  system-wide  coherence 
the  United 
Nations.  
In  that  regard,  we  welcome  the  beginning  of  the 

operation  of 
the  recently  created  gender  entity, 
UN-Women.  We  express  confidence  that  this  office 
will provide the necessary support to States in order to 
improve  the  situation  of  women  on  the  ground.  We 
believe  that  among  the  key  thrusts  of  the  work  of 
UN-Women should be to combat human trafficking as 
one of the negative phenomena that hold women back 
in  their  rights  and  opportunities.  We  hope  that  the 
in 
fulfilling 
the  context  of 
this  new  organization, 
recent  holding,  within 
agenda  of 
the 
mandates that were initially assigned to it, will become 
an  active  member  of  the  Inter-Agency  Coordination 
Group  against Trafficking  in  Persons  and  will  make  a 
contribution to implementing the Global Plan of Action 
to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons  adopted  by  the 
General Assembly.  

We  support  the  Secretary-General’s  idea  on  the 
need  to  support  youth  and  provide  young  people  with 
broad  opportunities 
receive  an  education  or 
vocational training, acquire technical skills and benefit 
from  job  placement  services.  Young  people  are  the 
potential and driving force of any society. We welcome 
the 
the 
International  Year  of  Youth,  of  a  high-level  meeting. 
We hope that now work will begin on effective global 
policies to defend the interests of youth. 

The  tragedy  in  Fukushima  confirms  the  need  to 
strengthen  United  Nations  agencies  responsible  for 
conducting  scientific  assessments  of  the  consequences 
and  effects  of  atomic  radiation  and  deriving  effective 
ways  to  overcome  them.  Belarus  notes  in  that  regard 
the  work  done  by  the  United  Nations  Scientific 
Committee  on 
the  Effects  of  Atomic  Radiation. 
However,  the  appearance  of  new  countries  that  have 
developed 
the  necessary  scientific  potential  and 
knowledge  on  the  effects  of  atomic  radiation  has  not 
been  yet  been  reflected  in  the  membership  of  the 
Committee.  We  are  convinced  that  it  would  increase 
the  effectiveness  of  the  Committee’s  work  if  we 
appointed  six  candidate  States  as  members  during  the 
sixty-sixth  session  of  the  General Assembly. We  hope 
that  Members  States  of  the  United  Nations  will  do 
everything  possible  to  strengthen  the  Committee  with 
the  advisory  support  of 
the 
Organization  and  that  the  Assembly  will  take  the 
necessary decisions to improve the performance of the 
Committee in the long term. 

On  the  list  of  measures  in  the  fight  against 
climate change, we focus on realistic steps to create an 
effective  model 
regulated  by 
international  agreements  on  reducing  greenhouse  gas 
emissions.  We  have  tried  to  make  our  contribution  to 
such multilateral efforts, and we initiated the adoption 
of  the  amendment  to  annex  B  of  the  Kyoto  Protocol 
establishing  quantitative 
such 
emissions. The  amendment  will  enter  into  force  when 
the parties have satisfied their domestic procedures. In 
that  regard,  we  ask  delegations  to  speed  up  the 
the  Secretariat  of 
commitments  on 
cooperation, 
to 
for 
12 

11-52968 


adoption of the necessary domestic legislation required 
to  implement  the  Convention,  which  would  thus  help 
us  follow  through  on  international  efforts  to  fight 
climate change.  

An important step in that effort will be achieving 
a  comprehensive  agreement  at  the  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development. We hope that 
the Conference will be successful and give an impetus 
to  establishing  a  global  mechanism  under  United 
Nations auspices that would provide access to modern 
energy technologies for developing and middle-income 
countries. The transfer of  those technologies will help 
defend our planet from irreversible changes.  

We  share  the  opinion  of  the  Secretary-General 
that  a  strong  and  unified  United  Nations  is  in  the 
interest  of  its  Member  States.  Such  an  Organization 
would  be  able,  of  course,  to  deal  with  the  complex 
challenges we have before us. That is why the question 
of United Nations reform stands out as sharply as ever. 
Without  such  reform,  we  can  never  have  the  tools  we 
need to prevent global crises. We call on the Secretary-
General to pursue efforts in that direction. We consider 
our joint efforts to revitalize the work of the Assembly 
and  to  reform  the  Security  Council  and  the  Economic 
and Social Council to be a priority. 
Mr.  Khan  (India):  At  the  outset,  permit  me  to 

extend  my  warm  felicitations  to  you,  Sir,  on  your 
assumption  of  the  important  post  of  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session.  You  can 
count on the full cooperation and constructive support 
of  my  delegation  as  you  steer  our  work  over  the 
coming year. 

Less  than  a  week  has  passed  since  our  leaders 
assembled  here  in  the  Hall  to  share  their  perspectives 
and  visions  on  the  current  international  system. When 
our  Prime  Minister,  Mr.  Manmohan  Singh,  addressed 
the  Assembly  on  24  September  (see  A/66/PV.22),  he 
spelled  out  some  of  the  daunting  challenges  that 
confront  the  international  community  at  this  time  of 
flux and uncertainty. 

Terrorism  is  a  scourge  of  humankind.  It  is  a 
global  problem  that  requires  global  solutions.  It  has 
spared  no  country,  region  or  city  in  the  world,  be  it 
New York,  London, Abuja  or  Mumbai,  to  name  but  a 
few  places.  I  am  happy  that  the  Security  Council’s 
Counter-Terrorism  Committee,  which  India  has  the 
honour  of  chairing,  adopted  an  outcome  document  on 
the  occasion  of  the  tenth  anniversary  of  Security 
A/66/PV.31
that 
is 
in 
Security 
incomplete 
international 
Council  resolution  1373  (2001)  that  contains  two 
consensus  benchmarks,  namely,  that  the  international 
community has zero tolerance for terrorism and that no 
cause  or  grievance  whatsoever  can  justify  it.  India 
the  adoption  of  a  comprehensive 
believes 
convention  against 
terrorism  would 
provide  a  solid  legal  basis  for  the  fight  against 
terrorism.  In  our  view,  the  United  Nations  Global 
Counter-Terrorism  Strategy 
the 
absence of such a convention. 

On the important issue of reforming the Security 
Council,  negotiations  during  the  sixty-fifth  session 
demonstrated,  without  a  shred  of  doubt,  Members’ 
strong  support  for  expanding  both  the  permanent  and 
non-permanent 
Council  membership 
categories.  We  welcome  the  decision  of  the  President 
to  reappoint  Ambassador  Zahir  Tanin  as  Chair  of  the 
intergovernmental  negotiations.  We  urge  Ambassador 
Tanin  to  immediately  convene  an  informal  plenary 
meeting to discuss Council reform. 

Last year, the United Nations played a significant 
role in helping the people of South Sudan realize their 
aspirations. It was with a sense of accomplishment that 
India,  along  with 
international 
community,  welcomed  that  new  country  into  our  fold. 
The  path  ahead  is  by  no  means  easy,  but  we  are 
confident  that,  with  adequate  resolve,  patience  and 
perseverance,  we  can  help  that  newborn  nation  as  it 
embarks upon the task of nation-building. 

This  year  we  also  have  another  opportunity  to 
translate  the  dreams  of  the  Palestinian  people  into 
reality. As Prime Minister  Singh said to the Assembly 
on  24  September,  we  look  forward  to  welcoming 
Palestine as an equal Member of the United Nations. 
This month, the population of our planet is set to 

pass  the  7  billion  mark.  This  is  not  a  mere  statistical 
milestone  but  yet  another  reminder  of  the  grinding 
poverty, inequality and deprivation that continue to be 
the  fate  of  an  unacceptably  large  cross-section  of 
humankind.  It  also  shines  a  spotlight  on  the  many 
unfinished tasks ahead of us on the global development 
agenda. We have made some progress since the world 
community  met  in  New  York  in  September  2010  to 
review progress on the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs),  although  overall  the  picture  is  mixed.  Our 
deep  political  commitment  notwithstanding,  the  hard 
truth  is  that  countries  have  done  little  to  advance 
MDG 8,  namely,  developing  a  global  partnership  for 
the 
rest  of 
the 
11-52968 

13 

in 
in  all 
gender 
Poverty 
reduction, 
the  need 
the  developing  world, 
for  ensuring  affordable  access 
A/66/PV.31 

development. In that regard, the commitment made by 
developed  countries  to  provide  0.7  per  cent  of  gross 
national  produce  in  official  development  assistance 
should be met as soon as possible. Equally significant 
is 
to 
technology and building capacity. 

empowerment, 
maternal health and infant mortality figures continue to 
show variable trends, with marked disparities between 
regions.  The  acute  rural-urban  divide 
the 
indicators  makes  the  progress  lopsided.  What  is  most 
worrisome  is  that  despite  significant  reductions  in 
extreme  poverty 
the 
proportion  of  people  who  go  hungry  has  remained 
static.  This  glaring  disconnect  calls  for  renewed 
attention  to  the  mechanisms  governing  access  to  food 
in the developing world. 

We believe it is important that the United Nations 
system  focus  on  the  needs  of  the  most  vulnerable 
populations in developing countries. Sustained priority 
must  be  given  to  the  special  needs  of  least-developed 
countries,  landlocked  developing  countries  and  small 
island  developing  States.  Member  States  and  the 
United  Nations  system  must  encourage  timely  action 
on  the  Istanbul  commitments.  We  must  also  pay 
particular  attention  to  Africa,  in  recognition  of  its 
special needs. 

The  focus  on  women’s  issues  in  the  United 
Nations  system  has  received  a  substantial  boost 
through  the  transformative  step  that  Member  States 
took  last  year  to  create  a  unified  gender  entity, 
UN-Women. We are happy to note that the new entity 
has embarked on its important tasks with purpose and 
vigour,  even  as  it  settles  into  its  new  structures  and 
mandate. 

My  delegation’s  efforts  at  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change Conference 
will  be  to  ensure  expeditious  negotiations  that  lead  to 
an ambitious, balanced and fair outcome. In doing so, 
we should be mindful that its defining features should 
be  the  principles  of  equity,  common  but  differentiated 
responsibility, and respective capabilities. I would also 
like  to  draw  the  Assembly’s  attention  to  the  United 
Nations Conference on Sustainable Development to be 
held  in  Rio  de  Janeiro  next  year,  which  holds  great 
promise 
the  global  sustainable  development 
agenda.  We  must  seize  the  opportunity  to  return 
sustainable  development,  as  defined  by  the  principles 
for 
including 
that  have 
constitutes 
taken  place 
Peacekeeping 
to  strengthen 
socio-economic  development, 
the  Rio  Declaration  on  Environment 
of 
and 
Development  (A/CONF.151/26  (Vol.  1)),  to  the  centre 
of the global development matrix. 

We appreciate the efforts of the secretary-General 
in  advocating  the  principles  of  the  promotion  and 
protection of human rights and the rule of law. We also 
recognize  their  synergistic  link  with  human  welfare 
and 
the 
achievement  of  the  MDGs.  The  review  of  the  Human 
Rights Council last year was a welcome development. 
the  most  visible 

enterprise  of  the  United  Nations.  India  has  had  the 
proud  privilege  of  contributing  more  than  100,000 
peacekeepers to peacekeeping operations in the past six 
decades.  As  one  of  the  largest  contributors  of  troops 
and  resources,  India  is  acutely  conscious  of  the 
dramatic  changes 
the 
peacekeeping  landscape.  We  remain  supportive  of  all 
the  Secretary-General’s  efforts 
the 
capability  of  peacekeepers  to  keep  the  peace  in 
increasingly difficult and complex situations by taking 
these changed realities into account. 
It  is  imperative  to  ensure  that  any  decision  on 

peacekeeping  mandates  not  be  isolated  from  equally 
important decisions on resources and capacity, in order 
to  achieve 
those 
mandates.  Equally,  India  is  conscious  of  the  fact  that 
peacekeeping  cannot  be  a  substitute  for  the  tasks  of 
nation- and peacebuilding. The Government of India is 
committed 
to 
and  practice  of 
peacebuilding. 

India  attaches  the  highest  priority  to  the  goal  of 
universal  disarmament.  We  continue  to  be  guided  by 
the visionary action plan for a nuclear-weapon-free and 
non-violent  world  presented  by  Prime  Minister  Rajiv 
Gandhi  in  1988,  which  sets  out  a  road  map  for 
achieving  nuclear  disarmament 
time-bound, 
universal,  non-discriminatory,  phased  and  verifiable 
manner. We further welcome the attention given to the 
issue  of  nuclear  safety  and  security.  And  we  support 
international efforts under the aegis of the International 
Atomic Energy Agency to enhance levels of safety and 
security. 

In  conclusion,  we  look  forward  to  forging  ahead 
on  the  crucial  issues  before  us  during  the  current 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  and  to  working 
towards meaningful and results-oriented outcomes. 
the  satisfactory  execution  of 
the  principle 
in 
in  a 
14 

11-52968 
to 
for 
achieving 
development 


Mr.  Khair  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 

outset,  allow  me  to  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your 
election  as  President  of  this  session  of  the  General 
Assembly.  I  am  sure  that,  thanks  to  your  wisdom  and 
experience, the work of this session will be a success.  

I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General 
for his report on the work of the Organization this year 
(A/66/1). And  I  wish  to  emphasize  the  importance  of 
this debate on the report. It is fortunate that, following 
the  general  debate,  the  sixty-sixth  session  of  the 
General  Assembly  begins  its  deliberations  with  this 
report, which takes stock of the Organization’s work as 
the  world’s  hopes  and 
it  pertains  directly 
expectations 
and 
strengthening international peace and security. We face 
a  number  of  international  challenges  and  crises  that 
call  for  a  prompt  and  robust  response  in  order  to 
achieve security and development for the whole world. 

The  report  is  focused  on  the  special  needs  of 
Africa.  We  would  like  to  stress  the  importance  of 
providing  support  for  development  in  Africa.  Along 
with  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development, 
that should be considered a top priority for the United 
Nations.  It  is  also  important  to  increase  resources  to 
Africa  and  to  address  the  continent’s  debt  problem, 
especially  with  regard  to  least  developed  countries, 
most of which are in Africa. We hope that such support 
will be coupled with support for the implementation of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs), 
in 
particular in the cultural and social fields. 

My  country  places  particular  importance  on  the 
implementation  of  the  internationally  agreed  MDGs. 
We  hope  that  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  will 
play a leading role in monitoring and following up the 
commitments  made 
the 
implementation  of  the  MDGs.  It  is  also  important  to 
take  stock  of  the  obstacles  faced  by  developing 
countries in achieving the MDGs. 

We had hoped that the Secretary-General’s report — 
specifically  under  heading  B  of  chapter  II,  entitled 
“Peacebuilding”  —  would  have  commended 
the 
Government of the Sudan for its commitment to peace, 
especially  given  the  signing  of  the  Comprehensive 
Peace  Agreement,  which  led  to  the  declaration  and 
establishment  of  South  Sudan.  The  Sudan  promptly 
recognized  South  Sudan.  We  therefore  call  on  the 
Organization not to heed the policies of some countries 
that do not want to give credit to those that deserve it. 
connection  with 
in 
A/66/PV.31
and 
socially 
economic 
to  realize 
their  right 
We would also like to draw the Assembly’s attention to 
the  fact  that  the  Sudanese  leadership,  under  President 
Omar Hassan Ahmad Al-Bashir, has enabled the people 
of  South  Sudan 
to  self-
determination, for the sake of peace and stability in the 
country.  My  country  continues 
to  call  for  good 
neighbourly  relations  with  the  Government  of  South 
Sudan based on understanding and common interests. 

In conclusion, we hope that the next report of the 
Secretary-General  will  include  a  plan  to  step  up 
international  cooperation,  in  particular  in  the  areas  of 
science  and  technology,  given  their  importance  in 
bolstering 
sustainable 
development  for  our  people.  We  hope  that  this  will 
help  us  to  benefit  from  the  progress  made  at  the 
international  level  on  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
energy. 

We  also  hope  that  the  work  of  the  Organization 
will  be  based  on  professionalism,  impartiality  and 
neutrality,  in  line  with  the  letter  and  spirit  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  with  a  view  to 
fostering  cooperation  among  States  at  this  critical 
juncture  in  world  history.  The  Organization  should 
distance  itself  from  any  narrow-minded  agenda  that 
seeks 
the  basis  of 
selectivity and policies based on double standards. And 
we hope that the Organization will soon be reformed in 
order  to  help  us  maintain  international  peace  and 
security and achieve our development goals. 
Mr.  Acharya  (Nepal): I  wish  to  thank  the 

Secretary-General  for  the  comprehensive  presentation 
of his report (A/66/1) on the work of the Organization. 
In particular, we take note of the analysis and reporting 
on major developments and trends and the need for the 
reinvigoration  of  global  cooperation  under  the  United 
Nations.  As  rightly  stated  in  the  report,  we  have  a 
collective  responsibility  to  secure  and  promote  global 
goods.  Given  their  complexity  and  interrelated  and 
wide-ranging nature, they require global cooperation of 
the highest order. 

relationship 
between  peace,  security  and  development  we  are  glad 
to  see  that  the  report  first  turns  its  attention  to  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs). The  MDGs, 
which  all  countries  must  achieve  by  2015,  remain  our 
key  development  objectives.  However,  the  conditions 
and opportunities for achieving them are not the same 
for all. Against a backdrop of structural constraints and 
target  some  countries  on 
As  we  consider 
the  symbiotic 
to 
11-52968 

15 

on 
their 
building 
productive 
A/66/PV.31 

multiple  vulnerabilities,  accentuated  by  the  adverse 
impacts  of  climate  change  and  a  series  of  mutually 
exacerbating  crises,  least  developed  countries  (LDCs) 
are likely to miss many of the important MDG targets.  

For  LDCs,  the  medium-term  goal  is  to  graduate 
from their status. That hinges on achieving the MDGs 
and 
capacity, 
infrastructure  and 
institutions  as  a  development 
multiplier. Graduation from LDC status requires strong 
political  will  and  determination  on  the  part  of  LDCs 
and their development partners, as well as effective and 
robust  international  support  measures  in  a  sustained 
and predictable manner. We call for the full, timely and 
effective implementation of the Istanbul Programme of 
Action. 

The  credibility  of  the  United  Nations  lies  in  its 
ability  to  fulfil  the  primary  responsibility  for  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  as 
enshrined in the Charter. A continuous evolution in the 
external environment demands continued adjustment in 
the approach of the United Nations, while fundamental 
principles remain constant.  
A  holistic  approach  to  peace  and  security  is 

needed  to  address  diverse  and  complex  threats  in  the 
modern world. In recent years, demands have increased 
phenomenally  for  greater  United  Nations  involvement 
in  preventive  diplomacy,  crisis  management,  conflict 
resolution  and  the  building  of  sustainable  peace. 
Increased  responsibility  demands  increased  political 
commitment and matching resources. 
flagship 

enterprise  of 
is  constantly 
evolving.  In  our  view,  unity  of  purpose  among  the 
members of the Security Council and the mobilization 
of  its  entire  political  capital,  based  on  merits  and 
principles  and  a  coherent  strategic  framework  with  an 
explicit mandate, will largely determine the success of 
peacekeeping operations on the ground.  
to  have  an 

the  need 
institutionalized  consultative  framework  with  troop- 
and  police-contributing  countries  and  the  provision  of 
adequate  human  and  material  resources.  The  safety, 
security  and  motivation  of  peacekeepers  should  form 
an  integral  part  of  a  successful  peacekeeping  mission. 
We remain steadfast in our commitment to contributing 
to peacekeeping. 
remains 
the  United  Nations, 
Peacekeeping,  which 
important 
Equally 
is 
a 
the 
for 
Nepal’s 
crises 
have 
role  of 
economic 
important 
aggravated 
to  human 
regeneration 
commitment 
We  underscore 

the 
Peacebuilding  Commission.  The  consolidation  of 
national  ownership  and  capacity-building  and  strong 
support 
and  youth 
employment, together with stabilization of the security 
situation  and  coherence  and  effective  coordination 
among  all  stakeholders,  are  some  of  the  defining 
features of successful peacebuilding efforts. 
Conflicts,  natural  disasters,  poverty,  hunger  and 

multiple 
humanitarian 
challenges  worldwide.  We  call  for  greater  United 
Nations  capacity,  both  in  terms  of  resources  and 
manpower.  We  welcome  the  efforts  of  the  United 
Nations  to  further  improve  needs-based  joint  planning 
efforts.  We  call  for  United  Nations  assistance  in 
developing  streamlined  and  effective  disaster  risk 
reduction  strategies  to  minimize  people’s  exposure  to 
natural hazards, especially in LDCs. 

is 
unequivocal.  Peace,  development  and  human  rights 
must be pursued in a coherent and holistic manner. The 
right to development must form an integral part of the 
global human rights agenda. 

Global warming has frequently led to erratic and 
extreme  weather,  affecting  human  health,  ecosystems 
and  biodiversity.  My  country,  which  is  both  a  least 
developed and landlocked country, is highly vulnerable 
to  climate  change,  which  has  precipitated  the  melting 
of  snow  in  the  Nepalese  Himalayas  —  the  perennial 
source of freshwater for over 1 billion people in South 
Asia.  Approximately  two  dozen  of  our  glacial  lakes 
could overflow their banks at any time, causing a huge 
loss  in  lives  and  property.  That  is  why  we  have 
to  promote  a  sustainable 
launched 
mountain  development  agenda,  with  a  view 
to 
highlighting their special vulnerabilities and fragilities. 

We are deeply worried by the lack of progress on 
climate  talks.  We  call  for  ambitious  goals,  with  due 
regard  for  the  equitable  aspects  of  climate  change. 
Nepal  attaches  high 
the  Rio+20 
Conference  on  sustainable  development,  to  be  held 
next  year.  The  Conference  will  be  an  important 
occasion 
the  sustainable 
development  agenda,  with  a  central  focus  on  human 
well-being,  while 
the 
vulnerabilities of LDCs. 
the  general  and  complete 

for 
disarmament  of  all  weapons  of  mass  destruction  in  a 
to  collectively  advance 
Nepal  calls 
importance 
the 
initiative 
taking 
into 
account 
rights 
to 
16 

11-52968 
to 
of 
It 
that 
early 
is  also 
important 
conclusion 


time-bound manner. The Regional Centre for Peace and 
Disarmament  for  Asia  and  the  Pacific,  located  in 
Kathmandu,  could  be  instrumental  in  revitalizing  the 
Kathmandu  process 
facilitate  dialogues  and 
deliberations on confidence-building in the region. 
Terrorism  must  be  defeated  in  all  its  forms  and 

manifestations.  The 
a 
comprehensive convention on international terrorism is 
critical  to  strengthening  global  partnership  and  to 
collaboration in fighting that deadly menace. 
The global health agenda must receive continued 

priority. 
the  Political 
Declaration  on  HIV/AIDS  (resolution  60/262)  and  the 
Political  Declaration  of  the  High-level  Meeting  of  the 
General  Assembly  on  the  Prevention  and  Control  of 
Non-communicable  Diseases  (resolution  66/2,  annex), 
which  was  held  just  a  few  days  ago,  be  implemented 
with  priority,  fully  ensuring  the  resource  requirements 
of developing countries, in particular of LDCs. 

We  must  ensure  that  the  power  and  authority  of 
the  General  Assembly  are  enhanced  commensurate 
with its standing as the only universally representative 
body.  

Nepal supports the expansion of the membership 
of the Security Council in both categories. The reform 
agenda  must  address  all  interrelated  issues,  such  as 
representation, 
and 
accountability  in  the  working  methods  of  the  Security 
Council. The role and contribution of smaller States in 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security 
should also be duly acknowledged. 

The  Economic  and  Social  Council  must  take  a 
leading  role  in  ensuring  coherence  and  consistency  in 
global  economic,  financial  and  trading  systems  and  in 
promoting  global  economic 
in  close 
cooperation with the Bretton Woods and other relevant 
institutions.  The  United  Nations  has  a  crucial  role  in 
shaping  the  policy  debate  on,  and  establishing  global 
norms in, economic and financial matters, which must 
be  strengthened.  Nepal  welcomes  all  efforts  aimed  at 
promoting  system-wide  coherence, 
the 
operationalization of UN-Women. 

the 
purposes and  principles of  the United Nations Charter 
is  profound  and  resolute.  For  us,  the  United  Nations 
represents  a  solid  manifestation  of  multilateralism. 
Despite  tumultuous  developments  over  the  years,  the 
In  conclusion,  Nepal’s  commitment 
transparency 
as  well 
including 
relations, 
as 
A/66/PV.31
the 
to  express 
full  support  of 
(A/66/1),  a  document 
United  Nations  has  preserved 
its  standing  as  a 
centrepiece  of  international  relations.  As  the  world 
becomes  more  integrated  and  the  problems  facing 
humankind  become  more  complex  and  diverse,  the 
United  Nations  remains  a  pivotal  and  indispensable 
organization for us all. 
Mr. Gumende (Mozambique): As this is the first 

time  that  I  take  the  floor  at  the  General  Assembly, 
allow me to start by congratulating you, Mr. President, 
and all the members of the Bureau on your unanimous 
election  to  preside  over  the  sixty-sixth  session  of  the 
General  Assembly.  We  would  also  like  to  take  this 
opportunity 
the 
delegation  of  Mozambique  as  you  discharge  of  your 
noble mission and responsibilities. 
The  delegation  of  Mozambique  welcomes  this 

year’s  annual  report 
that 
highlights  the  main  achievements  of  the  past  session, 
the  challenges  that  the  Organization  had  to  overcome 
and, above all, the remaining commitments to be met. 
In that regard, it constitutes an important guide for the 
work  ahead.  We  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  the 
comprehensive  report  and  all  United  Nations  staff  for 
the positive results, which could be achieved only with 
their dedicated engagement and commitment to deliver 
on the work of the Organization. 

In  the  past  five  years,  we  have  witnessed  a  fast-
changing  world,  marked  by  the  prevailing  combined 
effects  of  various  crises  and  aggravated  by 
the 
magnitude  and  frequency  of  natural  disasters,  to 
mention just one. In that challenging environment, the 
United  Nations  has  shown  its  ability  to  adapt  and 
transform 
to  cope  with  new  and  complex 
realities. Today, the Organization remains our source of 
strength and inspiration, as it is under its umbrella that 
we  congregate 
inclusive  and 
sustainable responses to new and old challenges alike. 
The report has several examples of that resilience, from 
responses  to  threats  to  peace  and  security  to  those 
taken in the context of humanitarian disasters. 

We note with satisfaction that the United Nations 
has  strengthened  its  partnership  with  regional  and 
subregional  organizations,  an 
in 
improving 
conflict 
prevention  and  crisis  management.  As  underlined  by 
His  Excellency  President  Armando  Guebuza  in  his 
statement during the general debate, 
early  warning  mechanisms, 
important  step 
to  foster 
to  strive 
itself 
to 
11-52968 

17 

A/66/PV.31 


a 
for 
recommendations 

“We  reaffirm  our  recognition  of  the  role  of 
the  regional  and  subregional  organizations  as 
pillars  in  the  promotion  and  maintenance  of 
peace, security and stability”. (A/66/PV.13, p. 9) 

We note with concern that, four years before the 
2015  deadline  for  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  the  Secretary-General  has  once 
again  reiterated  the  call  made  last  year  for  the 
necessary  financial  resources  to  be  made  available  if 
we are to succeed in achieving the targets to which we 
committed  ourselves.  The  situation  is  even  graver  in 
Africa,  a  continent  where  the  total  number  of  people 
living  in  extreme  poverty  and  facing  food  insecurity 
continues  to  rise  due  to  a  sharp  increase  in  food  and 
energy  prices  in  2011.  In  addition,  the  economic 
performance  of  several African  countries  is  not  being 
complemented  by  the  disbursement  of  the  additional 
financial  support  pledged  by  development  partners, 
including  that  promised  six  years  ago  at  the  Group  of 
20 Summit at Gleneagles. 
In  that  regard,  we  await  with  expectation  the 

proposed 
post-2015 
development framework, as well as the outcome of the 
High-level Panel on Global Sustainability, as they will 
outline  our  future  path  to  equitable  and  sustainable 
development. It is vital that, as we approach 2015, the 
international community reaffirm its commitment to an 
inclusive global development agenda that caters for the 
needs of every Member State, from the least developed 
countries to the most developed ones. We should work 
together to ensure that the next framework sustains and 
consolidates  the  gains  made  so  far,  reinforces  the 
commitments to overcome the shortfalls, and identifies 
ways to tackle the new challenges before us. 

The  recent  social  uprisings  in  North  Africa  and 
the Middle East bear testimony to the  vulnerability  of 
peace  and  stability 
the  absence  of  adequate 
satisfaction of basic human needs and rights. We salute 
the  United  Nations  for  its  timely  involvement  in 
fostering  dialogue  and  in  supporting  the  authorities  of 
the affected countries as they endeavour to respond to 
the needs of their people in an emergency situation. 

As those countries return to normalcy, the role of 
the  United  Nations  continues  to  be  of  paramount 
importance  in  helping  to  build  democratic  institutions 
and  respond  to  the  social  needs  of  the  people.  Our 
experience  of  transition  from  conflict  to  peace  shows 
that  an  impartial  and  credible  partner,  such  as  the 
in 
activities 
related 
to 
for 
the  Plan  of  Action 
United  Nations,  is  critical  in  building  confidence  and 
fostering  dialogue  among 
the  various  national 
stakeholders.  The  United  Nations  also  plays  a  critical 
role  by  making  appropriate  expertise  available  in 
various relevant domains that we all recognize. 

In  efforts  to  support  the  ongoing  transition 
processes,  the  role  of  the  international  community 
cannot  be  overemphasized.  In  that  regard,  we  applaud 
the  political  decision  to  establish  the  United  Nations 
Support Mission in Libya. 
As one of the eight pilot countries working on the 

Delivering  as  One  initiative  since  2007,  Mozambique 
follows  with  particular  interest  the  activities  of  the 
Organization to reinforce system-wide coherence at all 
levels. We therefore welcome the progress made in that 
regard, 
the 
including 
implementation  of 
the 
Harmonization  of  Business  Practices  in  the  United 
Nations System. It is worth noting that, in its country-
led  evaluation  of  Delivering  as  One,  Mozambique 
identified  among  the  challenges  the  need  to  fast-track 
the  strategic  consolidation  of  the  delivering  as  one 
experience  by  decentralizing  roles  and  responsibilities 
between  United  Nations  Headquarters  and  country 
offices,  and 
forward  with 
streamlining and harmonization among United Nations 
agencies at the country and Headquarters levels. 

Mozambique  has  made  significant  progress  in 
leading  a  partnership  with  the  United  Nations  system 
that  is  much  more  coherent  in  its  support  to  national 
poverty  reduction  plans  and  strategies.  For  example, 
the  Government  has  just  signed  a  new  multi-year 
United  Nations  Development  Assistance  Framework 
(UNDAF)  for  2012-2015  which,  for  the  first  time, 
brings  together  all  United  Nations  activities  in  the 
country into a common framework that is fully aligned 
with  our  poverty  reduction  strategy  paper.  The 
implementation  of  the  new  UNDAF  will  focus  on 
building  on  the  lessons  drawn  from  delivering  as  one 
further 
and  moving  even 
system-wide 
coherence in the coming years. 

In that regard, Mozambique is pleased to see that 
the  Secretary-General’s  report  acknowledges  some  of 
those  lessons,  such  as  the  importance  of  strong 
importance  of  strong 
Government 
United  Nations 
and 
coordination at country level and the need to reinforce 
system-wide 
leadership, 
leadership 
the  need 
to  move 
towards 
the 
18 

11-52968 
that  same  vision  for 


the  common  funding  programming  systems  to  avoid 
competition and fragmentation. 

Mozambique  has  paid  particular  attention  to 
achieving  tangible  poverty  reduction  results  as  a 
hallmark  of 
the  Government’s  poverty  reduction 
programmes.  We  are  therefore  pleased  that  the  new 
UNDAF  anchors 
the  next 
generation  of  delivering  as  one.  Good  examples  are 
already  visible  and  having  an  impact  in  the  areas  of 
nutrition, 
social  protection  and  climate  change 
adaptation, where joint United Nations programmes in 
support of Government goals has meant more effective 
support and results. 

Mozambique  is  of  the  view  that  there  is  no 
turning back on the accelerated United Nations reform 
process  at  the  country  level.  We  look  forward  to 
actively contributing to these and other lessons learned 
independent  evaluation  of 
during 
Delivering  as  One  and  at 
intergovernmental 
meeting of the programme country pilots, to be held in 
Uruguay in November. 
the  ongoing 
the 
A/66/PV.31
Finally,  we  would  like  to  reaffirm  the  continued 

engagement  and  commitment  of  Mozambique 
in 
support  of  United  Nations  work  to  deliver  on  the  five 
imperatives highlighted by the Secretary-General in his 
opening  statement  (see  A/66/PV.11)  at  the  current 
session: sustainable development, prevention, building 
a  safer  and  more  secure  world,  supporting  nations  in 
transition  and  empowering  women  and  youth. 
Together, no challenge is too large; together, nothing is 
impossible.  

the debate on this item for this meeting. 

May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  takes 
note of the report of the Secretary-General on the work 
of  the  Organization,  which  is  contained  in  document 
A/66/1? 


this stage of its consideration of agenda item 110. 

It was so decided. 
The President: The Assembly has thus concluded 
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
  The meeting rose at 12:05 p.m. 
11-52968 

19 
