
A/66/PV.34
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

34th plenary meeting 
Monday, 17 October 2011, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 
London, and the British Olympic Association, I would 
like to express our sincere gratitude for the support that 
the  members  of  the  General  Assembly  have  already 
provided for this draft resolution. The text is the result 
of consultations with all Member States, conducted in a 
spirit of openness and transparency. Their feedback and 
support  strengthened  the  text,  which  we  proudly 
present  today,  and  I  thank  all  delegations  for  their 
cooperation  and  collaboration,  and  particularly  the 
Group of Friends of Sport for Development and Peace, 
who,  under 
the  co-chairmanship  of  Monaco  and 
Tunisia, have helped to steer the draft resolution to this 
point. 

The  pursuit  of  a  better,  more  peaceful  world  has 
always been at the heart of the Olympic vision. Baron 
Pierre de Coubertin, the founding father of the modern 
Olympic  Movement,  saw 
the  Games  a  great 
opportunity 

“to  contribute  to  building  a  peaceful  and  better 
world by educating youth through sport …. [And] 
to create a way of life based on the joy found in 
the effort, the educational value of good example 
and  respect  for  universal,  fundamental  ethical 
principles”. 

Today, more than a century later, those principles 
are as valid and as relevant as ever. The extraordinary 
level  of  co-sponsorship  of  this  year’s  Olympic  Truce 
draft resolution — all 193 members of the Assembly — 
is  a  sign  of  hope  and  support  for  the  timeless  values 
symbolized  by  the Truce  and  the  Olympic  Movement, 
in 







In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Alotaibi 
(Kuwait), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 10.05 a.m. 

Agenda item 11 
Sport for peace and development 
  (a)  Building a peaceful and better world through 



to 
sport and the Olympic ideal 
  Draft resolution (A/66/L.3) 


The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 
give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  the 
Right Honourable  Lord Coe of Ranmore, Chair of the 
London  Organizing  Committee  for  the  Olympic  and 
Paralympic  Games, 
introduce  draft  resolution 
A/66/L.3. 

Lord  Coe  (United  Kingdom):  I  stand  before  the 
Assembly today as someone who has dedicated his life 
to sport and the Olympic movement, as an athlete and 
now as Chairman of the London Organizing Committee 
for  the  Olympic  Games  and  the  Paralympic  Games  in 
2012.  It  is  a  real  honour  to  be  here  this  morning  to 
introduce,  ahead  of  the  London  2012  Games,  draft 
resolution  A/66/L.3,  entitled  “Sport  for  peace  and 
development:  building  a  peaceful  and  better  world 
through  sport  and  the  Olympic  ideal”,  also  known  as 
the Olympic Truce resolution. 

On  behalf  of  the  people  of  the  United  Kingdom, 
the  British  Government,  the  Mayor  of  the  host  city, 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-55063 (E) 
*1155063* 




A/66/PV.34 

and  a  testament  to  the  relevance  of  the Truce  and  the 
Olympic Games in a time of global challenge. 

But  in  those  challenges  also  lies  opportunity. 
Throughout  history,  great  political, 
technological, 
cultural, artistic and other advances have emerged from 
times  of  adversity.  The  United  Nations  emerged  from 
World War II; satellite technology from the Cold War; 
even great jazz from the Great Depression. We always 
need  to  search  for  new  ways  of  thinking  and  acting. 
The  Olympic  Truce,  and  the  Olympic  values  and 
programmes that support it, really can promote peace. 

Sport  is  one  of  those  forces  that  can  still  offer 
real  hope,  both  collective  and  individual.  It  has  many 
roles,  such  as  the  quiet,  deft  diplomat,  or  even  the 
hidden  peacemaker.  And,  for  over  a  century,  the 
modern  Olympic  Movement  has  given  voice  to  the 
positive  values  of  humanity,  not  merely  reflecting 
change  but  driving  it.  The  Olympic  Movement  forges 
links  well  beyond  traditional  social  and  diplomatic 
structures or geographic boundaries. 

It would be folly to suggest that sport provides a 
complete answer, a panacea for all our social ills. But it 
can  and  does  help  mend  broken  communities,  rebuild 
trust,  rediscover  self-respect  and  foster  the  values  at 
the  core  of  our  common  humanity. And  there  are  the 
powerful  examples  of  sport  breaking  through  man-
made  barriers  of  ignorance  and  hate  —  none  better 
than Jesse Owens shattering the myth of racism at the 
Olympic Games of 1936. 

I competed in the Moscow Games in 1980 — due 
in large part to the visionary determination of the late 
Juan  Antonio  Samaranch, 
the 
International  Olympic  Committee  (IOC),  to  take  the 
Games  into  the  then  Soviet  Union  —  sport  helping  to 
foster understanding and create an extended network of 
new  friendship,  association  and  opportunity  across 
ideological  and  geographic  divides.  North  and  South 
Korean  athletes  marched  together  into  the  opening 
ceremony 
again 
demonstrating  the  power  of  sport  to  bring  people 
together, in a way that politicians alone could not. 

It  has  never  been  more  important  to  support  this 
General Assembly draft  resolution by  actions, not just 
through  words.  Between  now  and  the  Games,  the 
United Kingdom Government will lead a wide range of 
activities  to  promote  peaceful  development.  It  has 
committed  about  $36  million  to  deliver  an  innovative 
International 
global 
Sydney  Olympics, 
then  President  of 
programme 
called 
of 
the 
sports 
has 
also 
Inspiration 
Inspiration.  Aimed  at  young  people 
from  all 
backgrounds, it goes to the heart and soul of our vision 
for  the  London  2012  Games  and,  of  course,  the 
Olympic Truce. 

International  Inspiration  has  already  reached  out 
to more than 12 million young people in 15 countries, 
through  a  unique  partnership 
involving  UNICEF, 
national  Olympic  committees  and  British  Government 
agencies, and four more countries have recently joined 
the  programme.  It  is  improving  sports  systems  in 
developing countries, increasing school attendance and 
enhancing educational performance. It has empowered 
girls  and  young  women  to  participate  in  sport,  access 
education  and  become  community  leaders.  It  has 
increased  self-esteem  and  confidence  and  raised 
awareness  of  HIV/AIDS  and  other  threats  to  health. 
International 
supported 
reconciliation  by  hosting  sports  events  in  camps  for 
young  people  who  have  been  displaced  by  conflict.  It 
has  also  offered  purpose  and  anchor  points  that  have 
helped street children transform their lives. 

Closer  to  home,  our  Olympic  and  Paralympic 
education  programme,  Get  Set,  is  bringing  alive  in 
British  schools  and  communities  the  Olympic  and 
Paralympic  values  of  friendship,  respect,  excellence, 
courage  and  determination.  It  is  promoting  social 
inclusion,  health  and  physical  activity  and  tackling 
bullying and gang culture. 

I  am  also  very  proud  that  the  draft  resolution 
strongly  highlights  how  sport  enhances  the  lives  of 
those who live with disabilities — and how much they 
contribute  to  the  world  of  sport.  The  passion  and 
determination  of  Paralympic  athletes  is  an  inspiration 
to us all. 
We look forward to working with the IOC, other 

Member States and civil society on further activities to 
promote the Truce. These will be designed to help find 
local  solutions  to  local  challenges  and  contribute  to 
long-term peace and stability. 

We  applaud  the  work  of  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon and his officials, notably his Special Adviser 
on Sport for Development and Peace, Wilfried Lemke, 
and his team. With IOC President Jacques Rogge, they 
are  finding  new  ways  to  develop  communities  and 
build peace through sport. In particular, we are grateful 
for  their  promotion  of  gender  equality,  inclusion  of 
people  living  with  disabilities,  prevention  of  HIV  and 
AIDS and other diseases, environmental sustainability, 
2 

11-55063 
in 
States 
through 
like 
the  Olympic  Truce. 


and peace and conflict resolution. We encourage others 
to support Mr. Lemke’s mandate and his work. 

The  working  partnership  between  the  United 
Nations  and  the  Olympic  Movement  is  closer  than 
ever, as evidenced by the IOC’s recent admission as an 
Observer 
the  Assembly  and  by  day-to-day 
cooperation  among  the  IOC,  Olympic  Organizing 
Committees  and  United  Nations  agencies.  This 
deepening  relationship  gives  a  new  significance  to 
initiatives 
It  provides 
opportunities  for  greater  collaboration  among  United 
Nations  Member 
sport-related 
programmes,  which  we  know  can  make  a  real 
difference  to  the  lives  of  young  people  and  their 
communities. 

The  United  Kingdom  had  the  honour  of  hosting 
the Olympic Games in 1948, when the world had been 
shattered  by  global  conflict  and  still  simmered  with 
tension and hostility. In fact, the route of the Olympic 
Torch  to  London  had  to  be  altered  to  allow  for  safe 
passage  through  parts  of  Europe.  Today,  we  cannot 
ignore  the  continuing  spectre  of  conflict  around  the 
world.  Through  this  draft  resolution,  anchored  in  the 
original  spirit  of  de  Coubertin’s  vision,  we  can, 
together, take active steps to ensure that the Olympics 
continue to serve the cause of peace. 

The  vision  for  the  London  2012  Games  and  the 
Truce is focused on young people and on giving them a 
voice.  So  I  would  like  to  leave  the  Assembly  with  a 
message  from  two  young  people  who  represent  that 
vision:  Amber  Charles,  a  Londoner  now  studying  in 
America  on  a  sports  scholarship,  and  Ali  Mohamed, 
who has been recently elected as Young Mayor by the 
young people of Newham, one of the host boroughs for 
the London Games. Both of them are with us today as 
members  of  our  official  delegation.  Amber  and  Ali 
have asked me to give the Assembly this message: 

“The Truce helps to show the world that peace is 
a possibility. It shows the power that sport has to 
inspire  unity,  mutual  understanding  and  respect 
among  different 
types  of  people.  Countries 
should  feel  an  obligation  to  respect  the  Truce, 
because  it  holds  true  to  the  idea  that  we  can 
coexist  without  the  need  for  discrimination  and 
fighting.  It  gives  us  something  to  strive  towards 
outside of the Olympics and the arena of sport.” 
I  cannot  think  of  a  more  appropriate  way  to 

conclude this introduction of the draft resolution, or to 
A/66/PV.34
that  was  devastating 
the  oracle  of  Delphi, 
highlight the importance of support for the Truce, than 
to quote one  of the iconic  figures of our time, Nelson 
Mandela, a long-time friend of the Olympic Movement 
and  a  supporter  of  the  Games  in  London  next  year. 
“Sport”,  he  said,  “has  the  power  to  change  the 
world. (…)  Sport  can  create  hope.  (…)  It  is  an 
instrument for peace”. 
Mr.  Mitsialis  (Greece):  Since  its  inception,  the 

ideal  of  the  Olympic  Games  has  been  inextricably 
linked with the idea of the Truce. When King Ifitos of 
the  ancient  city  of  Olympia,  concerned  about  the 
plague  of  war 
the  region, 
consulted 
the  answer  was 
unequivocal. A competitive sports event was the means 
to  replace  hostilities  by  peace.  A  peace  agreement, 
signed by all the kings of the city-States in the region 
was placed in a holy shrine and the first Olympic Truce 
became  a  reality.  Despite  the  difficulties  that  this 
project  has  encountered  through  the  centuries,  the 
tradition  of  ekecheiria  —  as  the  Truce  was  called  in 
Greek  —  survived  for  1,200  years,  until  the  fourth 
century A.D.,  when  the  ancient  Olympic  Games  came 
to an inglorious end. 

Pierre  de  Coubertin’s  historic  initiative  to  revive 
the Olympic Games in the modern era proved that the 
seed of Truce was alive and meant to blossom. But the 
two  World  Wars  and  numerous  conflicts  around  the 
globe did not allow the idea of the Truce to thrive until 
the  early  1990s,  when 
the  first  United  Nations 
resolution  on  the  matter  was  adopted  (resolution 
48/11).  Greece,  a  staunch  supporter  of  the  idea  of  the 
Olympic  Truce,  closely  worked  with  the  International 
Olympic Committee for the establishment in July 2000 
of the International Olympic Truce Foundation and its 
operational  arm, 
the  International  Olympic  Truce 
Centre. 

The embrace of the concept of the Olympic Truce 
by  the  United  Nations  was  the  conclusion  of  a  long 
effort  and,  at  the  same  time,  the  beginning  of  a  new 
phase for the Truce. Having started in classical times as 
a precondition for the holding of the Olympic Games, 
in  the  process  the  Truce  became  a  self-standing 
concept,  closely  associated  with  efforts  to  achieve 
world  peace.  Let  us  not  forget  that,  as  things  stand 
today,  the  Olympic  Truce  remains  —  even  just  for  a 
short  period  of  time  —  the  most  far-reaching  peace 
agreement  in  our  globalized  world. We  therefore  have 
the  moral  duty  to  acknowledge  its  importance,  raise 
awareness of it and guarantee its implementation. 
11-55063 

3 
to 
the 
today 
remains 
although 
certainly 
forefront 
the  problems 
through  before 
the  global  situation 
A/66/PV.34 


In  our  era,  defined  by  the  many  challenges  we 
face,  the  Olympic Truce,  the  harbinger  of  peace,  tries 
to chart a course through the vagaries of world politics. 
Draft resolution A/66/L.3, entitled “Building a peaceful 
and better world through sport and the Olympic ideal”, 
urges all Member States to observe the Olympic Truce 
during  the  next  Olympic  Games. At  the  same  time,  it 
brings 
that  our 
contemporary  societies  have  to  overcome,  and  that 
sport  can  help  to  solve,  although  only  to  a  certain 
extent.  If  world  peace  is  the  ultimate  aim,  then  civic 
peace,  economic  growth  and  social  inclusion  and 
integration are intermediate stages that need first to be 
passed 
the  ultimate  goal  can  be 
achieved. 
Next  year,  for  the  third  time  in  the  modern  era, 

London  will  have  the  honour  of  hosting  the  Olympic 
Games. Compared to the last London Games, in 1948, 
when  the  world  was  emerging  from  the  nightmare  of 
war, 
is  fundamentally 
different, 
very 
challenging.  In  many  parts  of  the  planet,  we  are 
witnessing 
the  ongoing  quest  of  humankind  for 
freedom, human rights and a decent life. The Olympic 
Games in London certainly remind  us that humankind 
as  a  whole  should  tackle  its  problems  in  a  spirit  of 
solidarity  and  brotherhood,  in  the  same  way  that 
athletes compete in sports. At this point, let us all wish 
London every success in this difficult endeavour. 

In  ancient  Greece  the  Truce  was  proclaimed 
throughout  the  city  States  by  a  special  herald.  In  our 
times,  let  this  draft  resolution  be  the  herald  to  remind 
all Member States of their obligations emanating from 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  to  refrain  from 
waging  war  and  to  adhere  to  all  principles  that 
guarantee world peace. 
Mr. Wang Min (China) (spoke in Chinese): Sport 

is  not  only  a  benchmark  for  measuring  social 
development,  it  also  serves  as  a  bridge  to  promote 
communication  among  people  of  different  countries. 
Given  the  unrelenting  emergence  of  global  issues  and 
the  close  interdependence  of  developing  countries, 
the  goal  of 
there 
strengthening 
and  mutual 
understanding  among  civilizations.  That  consensus 
heightens the relevance and importance of the General 
Assembly taking up the agenda item entitled “Sport for 
peace and development”.  
is  consensus  among  all  on 
dialogue 
exchanges, 
it 

to 
in 
sport 
importance 
the  area  of 
the  achievement  of 

China  is  of  the  view  that  the  international 
community  should  place  the  issue  of  sport  on  the 
agenda  of  global  cooperation  for  development.  China 
attaches 
the  General  Assembly’s 
deliberations  on  sport  for  peace  and  development, 
appreciates the work of the Secretary-General’s Special 
Adviser  and  will  do  its  utmost  to  support  United 
Nations  endeavours 
for 
development.  

Sport  has  a  role  to  play  in  promoting  social 
development  and  maintaining  world  peace.  The 
international  community  should  incorporate  sport  into 
the  global  cooperation  agendas,  such  as  peacekeeping 
operations,  development,  education,  public  heath, 
gender  equality  and  the  protection  of  the  rights  and 
interests  of  persons  with  disabilities.  It 
is  also 
imperative  to  better  utilize  the  role  of  sport  in 
promoting 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals.  

China believes that upholding the Olympic spirit 
contributes  to  the  settling  of  global  crises.  Crises 
cannot be resolved without the consensus of the parties 
involved.  Mutual  understanding  and  respect  are  the 
prerequisite  for  consensus.  The  concepts  of  unity, 
friendship  and  fair  competition,  advocated  by  the 
Olympic Games, have emerged as the  common values 
and pursuit of all of humankind.  

To fundamentally address the financial crisis and 
other global issues, countries must continue to abide by 
the  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations, 
uphold  the  Olympic  spirit,  respect  cultural  diversity, 
enhance  mutual  understanding,  settle  disputes  through 
peaceful  means  and  work  together  towards  a  world  of 
equality and harmony. 

2012.  China  wishes 
Paralympic Games a complete success.  

Although  three  years  have  passed  since  Beijing 
hosted  the  Olympic  Games,  the  legacy  of  the  Beijing 
Olympics is still very much in evidence. The legacy of 
the  Beijing  Olympic  Games  is  not  just  limited  to  the 
large number of landmark sports facilities. The Games 
have  also 
fitness 
programmes, 
health, 
environmental protection and a host of other important 
undertakings in China.  
The  XXX  Olympiad  will  be  held  in  London  in 
the  London  Olympic  and 
substantially  promoted  mass 
public 
planning, 
urban 
4 

11-55063 



The  Olympic  spirit  has  spread  far  and  wide 
among  the  Chinese  people.  China  has  designated 
8 August, the opening date of the Beijing Olympics, as 
China’s  national  fitness  day.  That 
is  a  solemn 
commitment  made  by  the  Chinese  Government  to 
developing China’s sports endeavours.  

China has hosted many sporting  events  in recent 
years,  including  the  2010 Asian  Games  in  Guangzho, 
the  2011  Shenzhen  University  Games  and  the  eighth 
National  Games  for  Persons  with  a  Disability  from 
China,  which  is  currently  being  held  in  Hangzhou.  In 
2014,  China  will  host  the  second  Youth  Olympic 
Games.  

This  is  the  first  year  of  the  implementation  of 
China’s twelfth five-year plan for economic and social 
development.  China’s  sport  endeavours  are  also  at  a 
new  historic  turning  point.  The  Chinese  Government 
will  continue  to  integrate  sport  into  its  national 
development  strategy  and  provide  more  and  better 
public  sport  services  to  its  people.  In  the  meantime, 
China will continue to play a positive role in the Group 
of  Friends  of  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace  and 
international 
make  vigorous  efforts 
to  advance 
cooperation 
thereby 
for  development, 
contributing to world peace and development. 
Mr.  Singh  Rawat  (India):  I  am  privileged  to 

participate  in  today’s  debate  on  sport  for  peace  and 
development  and  would  like  to  thank  the  General 
Assembly for providing me with this opportunity to do 
so. 
in  building 

character.  Apart  from  ensuring  fitness  and  a  healthy 
lifestyle, it helps motivate young people, teaches them 
to work in a spirit of partnership with others, develops 
leadership  skills  and  promotes  a  sense  of  team  spirit. 
Sport also helps foster peace and a feeling of equality 
and friendship among all people and nations. There can 
be no more powerful medium than sport to inspire and 
bring people together for a common purpose. 

The  intrinsic  linkage  between  sport  and  games 
and the human quest for excellence was recognized at 
the very inception of human civilization. It reached its 
high point in ancient Greece, which was the birthplace 
of  the  modern  Olympic  Movement.  Sport,  games  and 
physical  fitness  have  also  been  an  integral  part  of 
Indian  heritage,  evident  even  today  in  the  highly 
evolved  system  of  yoga  and 
the  vast  range  of 
important  element 
is  an 
Sport 
sport 
in 
A/66/PV.34
in 
in 
in  sport  and  encourage 
functioning  of  our  national 
indigenous  games  and  martial  arts  practiced 
different parts of India since time immemorial. 

After Indian independence, in 1947, the first five-
year  plan  gave  due  importance  to  physical  education 
and sport and emphasized its integration in the formal 
education system. In addition, as part of our efforts to 
expand  participation 
the 
creation of a modern sport infrastructure, in 2001 India 
adopted  a  national  sport  policy.  In  India  today,  all 
segments  of  our  society,  including  the  media  and  the 
business sector, are actively involved in the promotion 
of  sport.  We  have  also  been  encouraging 
the 
autonomous 
sport 
federations. 

Sport  is  an  effective  tool  that  helps  to  achieve 
development  objectives 
the  areas  of  health, 
education,  child  protection  and  child  development.  In 
addition,  it  helps  to  generate  public  awareness  and 
inspires  broad,  inclusive  and  committed  action  in 
support of the development agenda.  

I am glad to note that, today, the value of sport in 
helping to achieve the Millennium Development Goals 
is  well  recognized,  and  that  many  sport  personalities 
have associated themselves with the United Nations in 
creating public awareness and understanding of various 
issues  that  affect  youth  and  society.  In  that  context,  I 
would  like  to  draw  attention  to  our  national  cricket 
icon, Sachin Tendulkar, who is a Goodwill Ambassador 
for  the  United  Nations  Environment  Programme,  and 
our  former  tennis  star,  Vijay  Amritraj,  who  was  a 
United Nations Messenger of Peace in 2001. 

In  the  recent  past,  India  successfully  hosted  the 
XIX  Commonwealth  Games,  an  event  that  featured 
participation  from  71  countries  and  more  than  7,000 
athletes,  who  celebrated  sporting  excellence,  human 
skill  and  endurance  and,  above  all,  courage  and 
character. The Games upheld and renewed the essential 
spirit  of  peace,  equality  and  friendship  among  all 
people and nations. 

Recognizing the importance of sport in building a 
peaceful and better world, India has sponsored the draft 
resolution  entitled  “Building  a  peaceful  and  better 
world 
ideal” 
(A/66/L.3), which will be adopted today. We sincerely 
believe that all sporting events strengthen the cherished 
ties of goodwill and understanding that unite us as one 
family. 
the  Olympic 
sport  and 
through 
11-55063 

5 
A/66/PV.34 

Ms.  Flores  (Honduras) (spoke  in  Spanish):  We 

congratulate 
the  Secretary-General  on  his  reports 
(A/66/280 and A/66/273) on the topics being discussed 
today,  which  complement  each  other  and  are  of  vital 
importance  to  many  countries,  including  Honduras. 
Peace,  development,  culture  and  sport  are  legitimate 
aspirations  of  our  peoples,  and  they  underpin  our 
commitment 
the 
development of those ideals around the world.  

with more authority that 

None  other  than  Nelson  Mandela  can  remind  us 
“Sport has the power to change the world. It has 
the  power  to  inspire.  It  has  the  power  to  unite 
people  in  a  way  that  little  else  does.  Sport  can 
awaken  hope  where  there  was  previously  only 
despair.”  
true 
How 
in  and  promote 
to  participate 

those  words  are.  There  are  few 
activities  that  can,  like  sport,  so  effectively  instil  the 
binding values of human coexistence. A mere glance at 
the rainbow of crowds in any stadium or sport complex 
shows that sport produces, if only for a few moments, a 
kind  of  magic  that  erases  ethnic  differences,  social 
economic  disparities 
inequalities, 
and  political, 
ideological and religious differences. 

The  presence  of  small  countries  such  as  ours  is 
rarely felt beyond national borders, except in the event 
of  a  scandal  generated  by  a  news  item,  but  we  have 
been able to stand out because of sport. Although it has 
been only for a few passing moments, since we are not 
at  the  top  of  any  global  agenda,  thanks  to  sport,  our 
people  have  been  soothed  by  the  comforting  balm  of 
applause and admiration.  

conflicts, 
acrimonious  disputes,  internal  divisions,  disparities 
across  various  sectors  and  special  interests  clouds  the 
vision  required  to  achieve  unity  of  purpose  or  the 
common goals cherished by humankind. Nevertheless, 
for  those  few  fleeting  but  resonant  moments  when  we 
have  witnessed  our  athletes  proudly  wearing  our 
national  colours  and  uniforms  emblazoned  with  our 
national 
sporting 
competitions, every heart in my country beats as one. 
We are well aware of the temptations that beckon 

to  our  young  people 
in 
environments  rife  with  unemployment,  crime  and 
delinquency and lacking opportunities. The children of 
poverty, 
the  victims  of  backwardness  and  social 
today,  even  more  so 
the  polarization  of 
How  often 
international 
symbols 
in 

exclusion,  must  face  some  hard  realities  in  order  to 
climb out of the hole and better themselves, sometimes 
just to survive. Anyone so desperate would be swayed 
by the prospect of taking a shortcut, which is the easy 
but the wrong way out. Every child and young person 
in  whom  we  can  awaken  a  passion  for  playing  any 
sport  is  a  child  or  young  person  less  likely  to  be 
recruited into a life characterized by vice, drugs or by 
any  other  social  ills  that  corrupt  the  soul  and  unravel 
the healthy fabric of our society.  

A  football  field  can  do  so  much  good  in  one  of 
those neighbourhoods wracked by extreme poverty, or 
in  the  remote  and  forgotten  corners  of  my  own 
Honduras.  It  is  moving  to  see  the  wide  smiles  on  the 
dirty faces of the children, who in their little hearts feel 
that  a  soccer  ball  and  a  patch  of  dusty  ground,  with 
three  wooden  goalposts  at  each  end,  can  miraculously 
lift their spirits and even change their lives. 

I  have  seen  that  vision. Together  with  a  team  of 
volunteers  and  thanks  to  the  support  of  generous 
donors,  each  year  we  sponsor  a  soccer  tournament,  a 
national world cup and a round of sporting events that 
bring  together  the  students  of  many  public  schools  in 
our  capital  city.  The  experiences  are  indescribable: 
enthusiasm,  the  convergence  of  hopes  and  yearnings, 
an  awakening  of  the  senses.  When  the  children 
compete and share, the field lights up with spontaneous 
outbursts  of  camaraderie  and  love  that  are  impossible 
to recount. It is as if the alchemy of this activity alone 
could  turn  everyone  into  important  members  of  one 
great family.  

The  promotion  of  sport  is  one  of  the  United 
Nations  great  contributions  to  building  a  culture  of 
peace. We recognize the work of the Group of Friends 
of  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace,  created  in 
January 2005 as an open forum for the representatives 
of  Permanent  Missions  to  the  United  Nations  in  New 
York.  We  commend  the  Permanent  Representatives  of 
Monaco  and  Tunisia  and  their  Governments  on  their 
initiatives  in  support  of  sport  and  peace  and  on  their 
efforts  to  promote  the  Olympic  Truce,  with  a  view  to 
using sport as a means of accelerating progress towards 
the  achievement  of 
the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  We  also  commend  the  United  Kingdom  for 
having  coordinated 
the  work  on  draft  resolution 
A/66/L.3. 

In  our  national  plan  of  action,  we  propose  that 
young  people  play  a  leading  and  responsible  role  in 
11-55063 
6 



transforming  our  national  reality  to  one  in  which 
human  rights  are  respected  and  upheld,  where  natural 
resources  are  protected  and  sensibly  used  and 
developed,  and  where  all  forms  of  life  and  cultural 
diversity are respected. That reality must also be about 
building  peace  and  forging  national  unity,  and  about 
Central American  and  Latin American  integration  and 
our  desire  to  build  a  more  prosperous,  developed, 
democratic  and  just  homeland.  However,  we  must 
re-evaluate  and  improve  the  focus  of  some  United 
Nations  assistance  programmes,  and  effectively  use 
sport in efforts to achieve the Millennium Development 
Goals.  

If we are able to replace battlefields and theatres 
of conflict with stadiums, fields and scenarios in which 
rivalries can be diluted by competitive sport and where 
tolerance nourishes coexistence, we will have created a 
less hostile world and opportunities for peace.  
Mrs. Dunlop (Brazil): Allow me at the outset to 

commend  the  work  of  the  Group  of  Friends  of  Sport 
for  Development  and  Peace  at  the  United  Nations, 
headed  by  the  delegations  of  Monaco  and  Tunisia, 
which is aimed at strengthening the role of sports as a 
means to promote citizenship and friendship, which is 
within the reach of us all. 

These  efforts  are  closely  aligned  with  the  major 
initiatives  and  programmes  undertaken  by  various 
Member  States  and  international  organizations  for  the 
advancement  of  sports 
integrated  manner, 
consistent with accomplishments in the social fields. 
For Brazilians, an exciting sports-centred decade 

has  just  begun.  Over  the  next  five  years,  Brazil  will 
host  three  sporting  mega-events:  the  Confederations 
Cup, 
International  Federation  of 
Association  Football  (FIFA)  World  Cup,  in  2014;  and 
the  Olympic  and  Paralympic  Games,  in  2016.  During 
this  decade,  sports  will  be  at  the  top  of  our  national 
agenda,  adding  value  across  our  social,  political, 
economic and cultural policies. 
These  sporting  events  will  not  only  enhance 

relations  with  our  partners  both 
regionally  and 
worldwide,  but  will  first  and  foremost  bring  together 
the  international  community  around  a  celebration  of 
the values enshrined in the United Nations Charter. 

these 
The  Brazilian  Government  is  well  aware  that 
extensive 
sporting  mega-events 
in  2013; 
involve 
in  an 
the 
A/66/PV.34
language 
is  spoken  over  more 
preparation processes  and  complex operations. We  are 
warming up to meet these challenges. 

In 2014, Brazil will host the FIFA World Cup for 
the second time since the first post-war tournament, in 
1950. We are an ethnically diverse society, unified by a 
single 
than 
8.5 million km2. We are now almost 200 million people 
who  live  together  peacefully  and  at  peace  with  our 
neighbours.  We  are  proud  of  our  consolidated 
democracy and of our sustainable, growing economy as 
a  means  of  overcoming  historical  inequalities  and 
improving the quality of life of all Brazilians. 

Rio  de  Janeiro  is  greatly  honoured  to  host  the 
2016 Olympic and Paralympic Games. The Games are 
the single biggest sporting event ever staged in the city. 
It is estimated that its opening ceremony alone will be 
watched by more than 4 billion people. Rio de Janeiro 
is  taking  on  the  challenge  and  plans  to  develop 
innovative and sustainable  practices to  address carbon 
and energy use; water services and waste management; 
and air quality and rational transportation. The Games 
will  certainly  be  a  catalyst  for  making  Rio  more 
beautiful and hospitable. 

The tangible legacy of these sporting events will 
be  stadiums,  arenas,  urban  mobility  infrastructure, 
telecommunications  systems,  and  port  and  airport 
facilities.  Yet 
legacy  will  have  other 
enduring features, including the positive impact on the 
self-esteem of the Cariocas, the gains in education and 
training  provided  by 
the 
strengthening  of  volunteering  programmes  and  their 
work  with  underprivileged  youth  and  elderly  persons, 
the  dissemination  of  a  sports-oriented  culture  and 
social  inclusion  through  sports,  the  improvements 
attained in the fields of health and safety, and increased 
economic activity. 

Pursuant to the recommendations contained in the 
resolution  entitled  “Sport  as  a  means  to  promote 
education,  health,  development  and  peace”  (resolution 
65/4),  adopted 
last  year  with  our  support  and 
co-sponsorship,  Brazil  is  currently  developing  sports 
cooperation  projects 
in  partnership  with  several 
developing  countries  and  remains  open  to  expanding 
the  scope  of  those  programmes  with  the  international 
community  and  in  cooperation  with  United  Nations 
agencies and programmes. 

Kingdom  Mission 
We  particularly  want  to  commend  the  United 
its 
the  United  Nations  for 
the  events  experience, 
the  social 
that 
to 
11-55063 

7 

that  hosting 
is  committed 
The  Brazilian  Government 
A/66/PV.34 

initiative,  of  which  we  were  a  sponsor  since  the 
beginning, to submit the draft resolution on “Building a 
peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport  and  the 
Olympic ideal”, better known as the “Olympic Truce” 
draft resolution. A similar project will be submitted by 
Brazil  in  a  timely  manner  in  preparation  for  the 
Summer Olympic Games of 2016. We are also grateful 
for the cooperation rendered by the United Kingdom in 
connection  with  the  project  “London  2012  and  Rio 
2016: Olympic sustainability exchange”. 

to 
fostering  and  adopting  public  policies  aimed  at 
ensuring 
these  sporting  events  will 
promote  development  and  social  inclusion,  as  we 
believe  that  sports  can  be  an  important  means  of 
achieving these goals. 
Mr.  León  González  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Sports  represents  an  important  aspect  of  development 
at  both  the  national  and  international  levels.  Cuba 
believes  that  sports  definitely  strengthens  solidarity 
and  friendship  among  peoples,  which  are  essential 
components  in  the  promotion  of  peace,  development 
and cooperation among nations. 

Sports  is  one  of  the  most  effective  ways  of 
fostering  the  well-being  and  health  of  our  citizens. 
However,  these  benefits  will  not  be  available  to  all  if 
we  continue  to  commercialize  sports  as  just  another 
business  and  one  that  is  available  only  to  a  small 
minority. 

the  Cuban 
revolution  in  1959,  sports  ceased  to  be  an  exclusive 
activity  in  our  country;  it  became  the  right  of  all 
people. This has allowed our country to register major 
successes  in  regional  and  international  competitions, 
despite  being  a  small  developing  State.  Just  to  cite  a 
few  examples,  since  1971  Cuba  has  held  strong  in 
second  place  at  the  Pan-American  Games,  and  for 
several  decades  we  have  been  among 
top 
10 countries  at 
the  Olympic  Games.  We  have 
69 medals  in  these  Games,  and  we  hold  21  world 
records. 

In the context of exercising the right to sports, we 
have  set  up  an  educational  system  that  incorporates 
physical education as part and parcel of shaping human 
beings at all stages of life. We are working to provide 
sports  training  to  children  from  a  very  young  age, 
which  allows  us  to  develop  the  talents  of  those  that 
stand  out  as  future  athletes  and  achieve  the  major 
Beginning  with 
triumph  of 
the 
the 
We 
also 
in 
the 
have 
strengthened 
that  we  have 
sports  accomplishments 
international arena. 

We  also  oppose  the  holding  of  sports  activities 
for  money’s  sake.  Thus  we  condemn  the  theft  of 
sporting  talent  of  which  the  developing  countries  are 
the victims. For years, the Cuban sports movement, led 
by  the  Cuban  Olympic  Committee  and  the  National 
Institute for Sports, Physical Education and Recreation, 
has  engaged 
in  selfless  cooperation  with  many 
countries  of  the  South  by  providing  technical  experts, 
professors and coaches who unassumingly, on the basis 
of  bilateral  agreements,  offer  new  methods  for  sports 
training  that  have  positive  results  and  popularize 
sports,  in  addition  to  developing  strong  bonds  of 
friendship and brotherhood among peoples. 

international 
cooperation by making available to the countries of the 
South  our  Institute  for  Sports  Medicine  and  our 
Anti-Doping  Laboratory.  Our  goal  is  to  contribute  to 
the  fight  against  the  scourge  of  drugs  and  doping, 
which  are  contrary  to  the  ideals  of  sport,  corrupt 
athletes  and  trainers  and  impede  fair  play.  In  that 
regard,  we  underscore  the  traditional  opposition  of 
Cuban  athletes,  at  all  levels  and  in  all  sports,  to  that 
illegal practice.  

for 
Physical  Education  and  Sports  to  train  professionals, 
who,  in  keeping  with  a  fundamental  principle  of 
solidarity,  can  return  home  to  transform  physical 
education and sport in their countries. 
Cuba welcomes the Pan-American Games, which 

are  being  held  now  in  Guadalajara,  Mexico  —  with  a 
large Cuban delegation participating. We also wish the 
greatest  success  to  the  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain  and  Northern  Ireland  in  hosting  the  upcoming 
London  Olympic  Games 
to 
underscore, too, that developing countries also deserve 
to  host  important  international  events,  including  the 
Olympic  Games, 
important 
international  forum  for  brotherhood  and  solidarity 
through  sport,  free  of  commercial  interests.  We  know 
that the 2016 Olympics in Rio de Janeiro will represent 
a success for the entire South. 

If  we  promote  international  solidarity,  including 
through the Olympic ideal, all the weapons created by 
civilization  will  be  rendered  superfluous.  Let  us 
promote and sow ideas. Let us all share the hope that a 
in  2012.  We  want 
International  School 
single  most 
founded 
Cuba 
the 
the 
8 

11-55063 
inception 


better,  more  just  and  equitable  world  of  solidarity  is 
possible. 
Mr.  Ong  (Singapore):  Singapore  will  welcome 

the  successful  adoption  of  draft  resolution  A/66/L.3, 
entitled “Building a peaceful and better world through 
sport  and  the  Olympic  ideal”.  Singapore  is  pleased  to 
sponsor this meaningful draft resolution. 

Much  has  been  said  about  how  sport  can  play  a 
crucial  role  in  the  efforts  of  the  United  Nations  to 
improve the lives of people around the world. It builds 
bridges  between  individuals  and  across  communities, 
creating  fertile  ground  for  sowing 
the  seeds  of 
camaraderie and peace. By promoting a philosophy of 
life  based  on  the  Olympic  values  of  striving  for 
excellence,  demonstrating  respect  and  celebrating 
friendship,  Olympism  shows  that  sport  can  help  to 
build  a  better  world.  By  promoting  friendly  rivalry 
through  competitive  sport  rather  than  combat,  since 
their 
the  Olympic  Games  have  been 
associated  with  promoting  peace.  Today,  the  Games 
enjoy a very important symbolic value in that regard. 

Singapore is very honoured to associate ourselves 
with the Olympic Movement through our hosting of the 
inaugural Youth Olympic Games from 14 to 26 August 
2010.  The  Youth  Games,  brainchild  of  International 
Olympic  Committee  (IOC)  President  Jacques  Rogge, 
aims  to  inspire  and  engage  a  young  generation  that  is 
increasingly  spending  less  time  on  sport.  “Inspiring 
youth, sporting Singapore” — those four simple words 
express the essence of the Youth Games in Singapore. 
From the start, the vision for the Youth Games was an 
event  filled  with  unforgettable  experiences,  which 
would  inspire  all  3,530  youth  athletes,  and  their 
families  and  communities,  to  embrace,  embody  and 
express  the  Olympic  values  of  excellence,  friendship 
and  respect  in  their  lives.  The  Youth  Games  also 
emphasized learning Olympic values through sport and 
applying  those  values  to  life  beyond  sport.  The 
message  was  clear:  Everyone  can  make  the  world 
better — no deed is too small. 

In organizing the Youth Games in Singapore, the 
intention  was  to  create  something  of  value  to  the 
Olympic  Movement  and  the  youth  of  the  world.  Our 
motto,  “Inspiring  youth”,  therefore  took  on  a  double 
meaning.  The  Games  would  inspire  young  people;  at 
the  same  time,  the  young  people  themselves  would 
inspire  others 
their  spirit,  character  and 
physical  talent.  That  led  the  Singapore  Youth  Games 
through 
A/66/PV.34
the 
of 
impact 
in 
value 
understanding 
to  make  a  positive 
Organizing  Committee  and  its  partners  to  create 
innovative  initiatives  that  would  commemorate  not 
only victories but also participation. 

The  Culture  and  Education  Programme,  a 
defining element of the Youth Games, which comprised 
over  50  interactive  activities  —  along  the  lines  of  the 
five  educational 
themes  of  Olympism  of  skills 
development,  well-being,  healthy 
lifestyle,  social 
responsibility and expression — provided opportunities 
for  the  athletes  to  learn  more  about  the  host  country 
and  each  other’s  culture  and  history.  The  Programme 
highlighted 
and 
appreciating different backgrounds and societies and of 
building  and  sustaining  friendships  that  can  flourish 
across  borders.  When  our  youth  develop 
their 
confidence, belief and determination to succeed on the 
playing  field  and  then  champion  those  values  and 
convictions 
their 
communities, they will inspire the building of a better 
and more peaceful world. 

The  Youth  Games  is  a  living  and  colourful 
laboratory for some of life’s most enduring lessons. At 
the Youth Games in Singapore, Britain’s gymnast Sam 
Oldham  showed  tenacity  by  winning  gold  despite  a 
surprise  loss  earlier  in  the  competition.  The  likes  of 
Singapore’s  Rainer  Ng  and  Jordan’s  Dana  Touran  — 
both  silver  medallists,  in  swimming  and  Taekwondo, 
respectively — showed that smaller nations can make a 
large  impression  too. Athletes  like  China’s  Gu Yuting 
and  Tunisia’s  Adem  Hmam,  who  teamed  up  in  table 
tennis,  learned  what  it  meant  to  work  across  cultures, 
achieving  a  well-deserved  bronze  medal.  England’s 
volunteer  Aisha  Naibe-wey  won  deserved  praise  for 
marching over 160 kilometres to raise funds for her trip 
to Singapore, while 82-year-old Ajit Singh, Singapore’s 
oldest torchbearer, learned that youth was eternal. 

Our  delegation  looks  forward  to  many  more 
inspiring tales of passion and hope at future Games. In 
particular,  the  XXX  Olympic  Summer  Games  and  the 
XIV  Paralympic  Summer  Games  in  London  next  year 
are  special  to  many  Singaporeans,  as  the  117th  IOC 
session, which elected the host city for the Games, was 
held  in  Singapore.  We  are  confident  that  the  United 
Kingdom will spare no effort in its preparations for the 
Games in the coming months. We would like to extend 
to  the  London  Organizing  Committee  our  best  wishes 
for the success of the Olympic Games. 
11-55063 

9 
to  developing 
thereby  contributing 
A/66/PV.34 

Mr. Kodama (Japan): At the outset, I would like 

to  commend  the  United  Kingdom  for  promoting  this 
year’s  draft  resolution  (A/66/L.3)  on  the  Olympic 
Truce. Such resolutions have become a valued tradition 
of the General Assembly. As a sponsor, Japan strongly 
supports the spirit of the draft resolution, as expressed 
in  its  title,  to  “Build  a  peaceful  and  better  world 
through  sport  and  the  Olympic  ideal”.  We  firmly 
believe that the Olympic and Paralympic Games, to be 
hosted by London next year, will achieve the ideals and 
objectives of the draft resolution. 

Last August, the Basic Act on Sport entered into 
force  in  Japan.  The  text  of  the  Act  starts  with  the 
phrase, “Sport is a universal culture of all humankind”. 
The objectives of the Act are to stipulate basic ideas on 
sport and promote comprehensive and planned policies 
on  sport, 
the 
physical  and  mental  health  of  the  people  and  to 
achieving  a  vibrant  society  and 
the  harmonious 
development of international society.  
In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  mention  the 

team,  well-known  as 
Japanese  women’s  football 
Nadeshiko  Japan  and 
this  year’s 
Fédération  internationale  de  football  Women’s  World 
Cup,  held  in  Germany.  Their  best  play  on  the  pitch 
gave  great  hope  and  encouragement  to  people  who 
facing difficult situations in the aftermath of the great 
earthquake  and  tsunamis  in  Japan.  Nadeshiko  Japan 
disseminated a video message expressing to the world 
the  heartfelt  thanks  of  the  people  of  Japan  for  its 
support  and  solidarity,  both  through  donations  and  by 
other means. That is the power of sport that we believe 
in. 

The principles of the Basic Act on Sports include 
promoting an environment for persons with disabilities 
to participate voluntarily and actively in sport, with the 
necessary consideration given to the different types and 
levels  of  disabilities.  Another  important  principle  of 
the  Act 
to  enhancing  mutual 
understanding among peoples and countries, as well as 
international peace. Those principles are exactly in line 
with those of the draft resolution on the Olympic Truce 
to  be  adopted  today.  Based  on  those  principles,  the 
Basic  Act  on  Sports  stipulates  that,  as  a  matter  of 
policy,  central  and  local  authorities  shall  make  efforts 
to give advantages to persons with disabilities in sports 
facilities,  as  well  as  to  contribute  to  international 
understanding  and  peace  by  taking  the  necessary 
the  winner  of 
to  contribute 
is 

measures  to  promote  exchanges  at  the  international 
level through the contribution of sport. 

Finally,  Tokyo  has  made  an  official  bid  to  host 
the 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games. If the bid is 
successful,  the  Government  of  Japan  will  use  that 
opportunity to further develop and strengthen the spirit 
of  the  General Assembly’s  resolution  on  the  Olympic 
Truce. 

Mr.  Churkin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 
Russian): It is no exaggeration to say that sport is the 
universal  human  language.  Its  role  as  an  ambassador 
for peace is extremely important, in particular when it 
is  endowed  with  the  noble  traditions  of  the  Olympic 
Truce.  The  importance  we  attach  to  raising  future 
generations  in  a  culture  of  peace,  non-violence  and 
tolerance shows that the Olympic ideal has lost none of 
its relevance, and indeed has become more significant 
than ever before. 
The Russian Federation attaches great importance 

to  further  enhanced  international  cooperation  in  sport 
so  as  to  overcome  national  and  religious  enmity,  to 
promote mutual understanding between peoples and to 
achieve intercivilizational harmony. We firmly believe 
that  support  for  sport,  including  at  the  Government 
level,  can  be 
the  global 
community  together  and  reaffirming  the  ideals  and 
values of the sporting movement.  

the  International 
Olympic  Committee  for  an  Olympic  Truce  so  as  to 
achieve  reconciliation  in  regional  conflicts  during  and 
after  the  Olympic  Games.  In  that  connection,  the 
Russian Federation has always been a sponsor of, and 
wholly supports, the draft resolution entitled “Building 
a  peaceful  and  better  world  through  sports  and  the 
Olympic  ideal”  (A/66/L.3).  We  call  on  everyone  to 
observe the Olympic Truce. 

Building sporting links with other countries is an 
important  part  of  the  Russian  Federation’s  foreign 
policy, as well as a matter of unwavering focus for our 
leadership. Encouraging as many people as possible to 
participate in sport and physical education is a priority 
in  my  country.  We  believe  that  sport  is  an  excellent 
way  to  instil  in  young  people  the  values  of  respect, 
tolerance  and  rejection  of  xenophobia  —  which  is 
particularly  important  today.  Sport  can  also  protect 
young  people  from  destructive  influences,  such  as 
terrorism.  We  believe 
that  sport  should  develop 
according to its own laws, that it should not depend on 
We  welcome 
the  call  by 
in  bringing 
important 
10 

11-55063 
regional 
and 
international 


the  political  environment  and  that  it  should  never  be 
used for intrigue or blackmail.  

Our  country  is  working  hard  to  support  the 
international  and  national  Olympic  and  Paralympic 
Movements. We facilitate broad-based participation by 
our athletes in major international competitions. We are 
taking  steps  to  further  strengthen  cooperation  with 
national, 
sporting 
federations, organizations and clubs. This coordination 
is giving added impetus to the development of physical 
education  and  sport  in  our  country.  It  also  makes  it 
possible for us to make creative use of our cutting-edge 
experience. 

As  the  Assembly  is  Aware,  the  Russian  city  of 
Sochi  was  selected  to  host  the  XXII  Olympic  Winter 
Games and the XI Paralympic Winter Games in 2014. 
We  see  the  selection  of  Sochi  as  recognition  by  the 
international  community  of 
the  achievements  of 
Russian sport and of our success in the socio-economic 
and  political  development  of  our  country  in  recent 
years.  

In  order  to  ensure  the  adequate  preparations  for 
the  Olympics  and  Paralympics,  we  have  amended 
Russian legislation as appropriate. We have established 
organizational bodies and are carrying out construction 
work  on  Olympic  facilities.  For  our  country,  it  is  not 
just  a  matter  of  effectively  organizing  the  largest 
international  sporting  event  in  recent  times,  but  to 
ensure the continued economic and social development 
of  the  entire  region  and  build  new  world-class  winter 
sports  facilities.  In  organizing  the  Olympiad,  we  are 
carefully  studying  and  applying  experience  of  other 
countries,  both  future  and  previous  organizers  of 
Olympic and Paralympic Games.  
The Russian Federation attaches great importance 

to  preserving  the  unique  natural  environment  of  the 
city  of  Sochi  and  improving  the  environment  in  the 
region  where  the  Games  will  take  place.  It  is  no 
accident that in the call for bids the Russian Federation 
imposed  more 
than  200  unique  environmental 
obligations on contractors. In addition, in line with the 
views of international environmental organizations, we 
have  decided  to  move  the  sites  of  many  Olympic 
facilities to other locations.  

In 2010, we saw the beginning of the longest-ever 
cultural  Olympiad,  which  will  involve  a  year  of 
cinema,  theatre,  music  and  museums.  The  goal  is  to 
showcase  the  diversity  of  Russia’s  multi-ethnic  and 
11-55063 

A/66/PV.34
multifaceted culture, to achieve maximum participation 
in this event by Russians and to ensure that people feel 
that the Games belong to them. 
Mr.  Meek  (United  States  of  America):  The 

United  States  welcomes 
the  General  Assembly’s 
consideration today of agenda item 11, entitled “Sport 
for  peace  and  development”,  as  well  as  the  draft 
resolution  entitled  “Building  a  peaceful  and  better 
world through sport and Olympic ideal” (A/66/L.3), of 
which the United States is an enthusiastic sponsor.  
When  we  meet  at  international  sporting  events, 

the outcome of who wins or who loses is not nearly as 
important as the goodwill of participation. That is why 
the  sponsors  of  the  draft  resolution  urge  everyone  to 
reaffirm  the  observance  of  the  Olympic  Truce,  the 
ancient  tradition  of  calling  for  safe  passage  and 
participation  for  athletes  and  other  persons  at  the 
Games,  thereby  mobilizing  the  youth  of  the  world  to 
the  cause  of  peace.  Since  1993,  when  it  was  first 
introduced,  this  biennial  draft  resolution  has  become 
the  most  sponsored  General  Assembly  resolution  in 
history.  
Today,  our  goal  is  to  continue  to  send  a  strong 

message  of  peace  and  international  goodwill  to  the 
youth of the world. Sport is a truly global initiative that 
extends  into  the  lives  of  all  people,  be  they  rich  or 
poor, at peace or at war. Sport teaches us to be humble 
in  victory,  gracious  in  defeat,  compassionate  towards 
competitors,  tolerant  and  appreciative  of  diversity. 
Moreover,  international  athletic  competitions  generate 
a  deep  sense  of  national  pride  while  fostering  a  spirit 
of international solidarity.  

Sport  exchanges  have  become  among  the  most 
popular  exchanges  in  the  United  States  Government’s 
people-to-people  exchange  programmes.  Our  sport 
diplomacy builds on Secretary of State Clinton’s vision 
of smart power diplomacy, which embraces the use of a 
full range of diplomatic tools, including sport, to bring 
people  together. Through  the  State  Department’s  sport 
exchanges, young people have discovered how success 
in  athletics  builds 
the  self-confidence  and  skills 
required for achievement in life.  
The  United  States  will  continue  to  reach  out  to 

youth around the world with the message of America’s 
commitment  to  international  understanding,  cultural 
tolerance  and  mutual  respect.  Sport  exercises  a  deep 
hold  on  human  imagination.  Sport  transcends  all 
perceived  ethnic,  age,  gender,  religious  and  ability 
11 

for 
seen 
already 
A/66/PV.34 

barriers.  Sports  reminds  us  of  our  common  humanity. 
We will continue to look for ways to partner with civil 
society  and  the  private  sector  to  focus  on  sports  as  a 
means  of  promoting  intercultural  post-conflict  and 
peacebuilding  dialogues.  Cultural  exchanges  and 
United States development assistance programmes will 
create  positive  change  in  global  communities  through 
sports.  United  States  Agency 
International 
Development  missions  have 
the 
tremendous  positive  impact  that  sports  can  have 
through  the  adoption  of  sports-based  programmes  to 
help  youth  learn  skills,  develop  confidence  and  help 
build communities in several least developed countries. 

The United States delegation looks forward to the 
adoption of today’s draft resolution. It also will uphold 
and  honour  the  Olympic  Truce,  routinely  proclaimed 
by  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Secretary-General  for  a  few  months,  prior  to  the 
London 2012 Games. 
Ms.  Mezad  (Israel):  Throughout  history,  sport 

has served as a common language for the nations of the 
world.  Sport 
friendship,  cooperation  and 
harmony. It transcends our differences and reminds us 
of  our  commonality.  It  requires  basic  human  values 
such  as  honour,  teamwork  and  tolerance.  As  Israel’s 
President, Shimon Peres, once said:  

“No  matter  if  you’re  black  or  white;  Muslim, 
Christian, Buddhist or Jewish; a man or a woman; 
sport  is  a  world  where  you  can  compete  without 
hating, where you win without killing.” 
Sport serves as a powerful tool to promote peace, 

tolerance  and  understanding  in  places  of  tension.  It 
brings people together across boundaries, cultures and 
religions. Israel seeks to build new and lasting bridges 
and  promote  peaceful  coexistence  among  the  diverse 
people  that  make  up  our  society,  particularly  between 
Jewish  and Arab  youth.  The  Israeli  non-governmental 
organization  Mifalot  oversees  more  than  300  projects 
that  use  soccer  to  foster  cohesive  communities  within 
Israeli  society.  Mifalot’s  annual  sporting  event  brings 
together  20,000  young  persons  from  Israel, 
the 
Palestinian territories and Jordan as part of an effort to 
stereotypes.  The  event 
change  perceptions  and 
promotes  acceptance,  understanding  and 
respect. 
Following 
the 
programme  has  expanded 
to  Cameroon,  Jordan, 
Rwanda and Haiti. 
fosters 
its 
remarkable  success 
in 
Israel, 
12 

in  southern  Israel,  programmes 

Through  its  activities  in  hundreds  of  educational 
and  community  frameworks,  Mifalot  instils  moral, 
social and educational values among youth. It helps to 
improve 
their  self-image,  develop  communication 
skills and provide them with a sense of belonging. 

Sport  has  also  been  a  powerful  tool  for  progress 
and  development.  It  has  played  an  important  role  in 
advancing 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
including the promotion of gender equality. Mifalot has 
used  sport  to  promote  gender  equality  in  minority 
communities  by  developing  programmes  for 
the 
empowerment  of  women.  For  example,  in  Bedouin 
villages 
targeting 
young  girls  have  proved  to  be  highly  effective  in 
improving their self-confidence. 

Israel prides itself on its accomplishments in the 
area  of  sport  for  peace  and  hopes  to  expand  those 
initiatives to  other communities  around  the world. We 
are proud to be one of the sponsors of draft resolution 
A/66/L.3,  entitled  “Building  a  peaceful  and  better 
world  through  sport  and  the  Olympic  ideal”,  which  is 
to be adopted by the General Assembly today. Israel’s 
interest  in  using  sport  to  promote  peace  was  reflected 
in the active role that we played in the negotiations for 
this draft. In particular, we brought forward additional 
language on the leadership of Olympic and Paralympic 
athletes  and  their  special  role  in  promoting  peace 
through sport and the Olympic ideal. Athletes embody 
the spirit of the Olympic ideal. They can be extremely 
influential  as  role  models  and  ambassadors  for  peace, 
and  their  global  popularity  can  be  used  as  a  powerful 
communication platform to promote a culture of peace. 

Unfortunately,  not  all  sporting  events  have 
followed the principles laid out by the United Nations 
Office on Sport for Development and Peace. While it is 
painful  to  mention,  we  must  recall  the  1972  Olympic 
Games in Munich and the terrorists that broke into the 
Olympic village and killed 11 Israeli athletes, coaches 
and referees. The memory of that inhumane act is still 
felt in Israel. Today my country continues to take very 
significant  security  measures  to  protect  our  athletes 
abroad. It is also crucial to mention Israelis’ exclusion 
from  certain  sport  leagues;  this  exclusion  represents  a 
direct  contradiction  of  the  ideals  that  we  speak  of 
today. 

Finally, on behalf of my country, I would like to 
thank  the  United  Nations  Special  Adviser  to  the 
Secretary-General  on  Sport  for  Development  and 
11-55063 
the  concept  of  sport 


Peace,  Mr. Wilfried  Lemke,  for  his  important  work  in 
encouraging  dialogue,  collaboration  and  partnership 
around  sport  for  development  and  peace.  We  were 
honoured to host him in Israel last month. 

Israel  is  proud  of  its  competitive  yet  respectful 
approach  to  all  international  sporting  events,  and  we 
hope  that  the  upcoming  summer  Olympic  Games  in 
London  will  represent  the  true  essence  of  sport  as  a 
way to promote tolerance and coexistence. 
Israel,  through  its  words  and  actions,  strongly 

for  peace  and 
supports 
development, as well as the Olympic ideal. We call on 
the  nations  of  the  world  to  join  together  in  these 
efforts. We view sport as essential for the promotion of 
peace  and  coexistence  in  our  own  State,  the  Middle 
East and the rest of the international community. 
Ms.  Picco  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French):  In  284 

and 317 days, respectively, London will host the XXX 
Olympic  Games  and  the  XIV  Paralympic  Games. 
Countless  millions  of  us  will  experience  once  again 
that  particular  emotion  we  feel  at  seeing  hundreds  of 
athletes  entering  the  stadium  behind  their  country’s 
flag, just before one of them lights the Olympic flame 
in a solemn and unique gesture that unites us all. 

they  world-class  athletes  or 
ordinary participants, tell us of a unique experience, a 
joint  human  adventure  full  of  enthusiasm  in  which 
overcoming  one’s  personal  limits  and  belonging  to  a 
community  give  the  Olympic  ideal  its  unceasingly 
renewed relevance — the spirit of the Games. 

The  lofty  values  of  the  Games,  enshrined  in  the 
Olympic  ideal  that  is  being  celebrated  by  the  General 
Assembly today, are the same ones that should inspire 
our  actions  in  favour  of  development  and  peace  to 
achieve  more  equitable  world  for  present  and  future 
generations.  

for  draft 
resolution A/66/L.3,  entitled  “Building  a  peaceful  and 
better  world  through  sports  and  the  Olympic  ideal”, 
reflects the resolve to observe and defend the Olympic 
Truce, to be held from 27 July to 9 September 2012. 
the 

delegation  of  the  United  Kingdom  and  the  London 
2012 Organizing Committee. 

Let us try together to meet our commitments and 
to  silence  our  weapons  and  end  all  violence  for 
record  number  of  sponsors 
to  congratulate 
Olympians,  be 
I  wish 
The 
in 
this  respect 
A/66/PV.34
teach 
together  and 
tolerance.  I  wish 
45 days,  for  the  benefit  of  the  millions  of  civilians 
affected by conflict and the international community as 
a whole. By together upholding the Olympic ideal and 
by stepping up our efforts to put sport at the service of 
peace  and  development,  we  are  consolidating  the 
principles  and  values  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  to  which  we  all  committed  ourselves 
to  respecting  when  we  became  Members  of  the 
Organization. 

In  a  world  where  disasters  and  crises  affect 
development  and  peace,  international  sporting  events 
are  becoming  increasingly  successful.  They  bring 
peoples 
to 
congratulate  our  friends  from  New  Zealand  on  the 
success  of  the  Rugby  World  Cup,  which  will  end  on 
23 October, and to note that on the World Cup webpage 
there is a link to the World Food Programme (WFP), as 
since  2003  the  International  Rugby  Federation  has 
been working with the WFP to fight hunger.  

The growing success of sporting events and their 
impact across the world is reflected in the participation 
figures  for  the  twenty-second  Sportel  conference,  a 
professional  sports  fair  for  television  and  new  media 
held  in  Monaco  in  2011. A  total  of  2,330  participants 
from 67 countries and 970 companies attended, making 
this year’s professional fair on sports media for buyers, 
broadcasters  and  advertisers  the  largest  in  the  past 
10 years. 

On 9 May, the Principality of Monaco signed the 
International  Agreement  for  the  Establishment  of  the 
University  for  Peace  in  Costa  Rica,  in  the  context  of 
cooperation between the organization Peace and Sport, 
the  International  University  of  Monaco  and 
the 
University  for  Peace.  Since  September,  the  innovative 
partnership  between  these  three  entities  has  offered  a 
multidisciplinary 
towards  a 
master’s  degree  in  sustainable  peace  through  sport, 
which  includes  rigorous  academic  instruction  on  the 
peacekeeping  process  as  well  as  an  apprenticeship  in 
field  skills  in  conflict-affected  zones  and  regions 
afflicted  by  extreme  poverty  and  a  lack  of  social 
cohesion. 

In  my  capacity  as  co-Chair  of  the  Group  of 
Friends  of  Sport,  I  should  like  to  thank  Mr.  Wilfried 
Lemke,  Special  Adviser  to  the  Secretary-General  on 
Sport  for  Development  and  Peace,  for  his  unfailing 
commitment  to  promoting  efforts  on  the  ground  and 
cementing partnerships. 
training  programme 
11-55063 

13 

together 
took  part 
A/66/PV.34 


We  commend  the  growing  involvement  of  the 
International  Olympic  Committee  (IOC)  in  United 
Nations  efforts  to  meet  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  and  welcome  the  presence  here  today  of  the 
Permanent  Observer  and  Vice-President  of 
the 
Committee, Mr. Mario Pescante. 

Before  concluding,  I  would  like  to  congratulate 
Singapore  and  the  IOC  on  organizing  the  Youth 
Olympic Games in the summer of 2010, at which 3,600 
young  athletes  aged  between  14  and  16,  of  whom 
46 per  cent  were  girls, 
in  high-level 
competition,  mixed  events  and  those  where  the  teams 
were  made  up  of  athletes  of  different  nations 
competing 
in  various  sports,  but  also 
participating  in  a  cultural  and  educational  programme 
designed  to  disseminate  the  Olympic  values,  social 
responsibility and expression through digital media. 

Getting to know the importance of hard work at a 
very  young  age,  respect  for  others  and  the  role  of  the 
individual in society led Her Serene Highness Princess 
Charlene  of  Monaco  to  become  a  Global Ambassador 
and member of the International Board of Directors of 
the  Special  Olympics,  a  movement  synonymous  with 
integration and respect for differences that encourages 
intellectual  disabilities, 
and  supports 
promoting 
all 
facilitating 
understanding  and  respect  around  the  world  through 
sport  activities.  The  latest  Special  Olympics  World 
Summer  Games,  which  took  place  in  Athens  in  July, 
bringing  together  7,500  athletes  from  185  countries 
supported  by  25,000  volunteers,  helped  demonstrate 
the power of sport and its ability to promote inclusion 
and social cohesion. 
Mr. Jerandi (Tunisia) (spoke in French): I would 

first like to express my delegation’s appreciation of the 
Secretary-General’s  2010  report  entitled  “Sport  for 
development  and  peace:  strengthening  the  partnerships” 
(A/65/270). I commend the efforts made by the United 
Nations  in  that  regard,  including,  in  particular,  by  the 
United  Nations  Office  on  Sport  for  Development  and 
Peace. 

I  would  also  like  to  emphasize  my  delegation’s 
appreciation  for  the  ongoing,  unflagging  efforts  of 
Mr. Wilfried  Lemke, Special Adviser to  the Secretary-
General  on  Sport  for  Development  and  Peace,  with 
whom the Group of Friends of Sport for Development 
and  Peace  spoke  this  morning  at  a  very  useful  and 
informative  meeting  held  at  the  initiative  of  the 
those  with 
for 
tolerance 
and 
its 
capacity 
for 
the  major 
communication 
included  among 
Group’s  Chair, 
the  Permanent  Representative  of 
Monaco, to whom I pay tribute for her dynamism and 
efforts. I would also like to thank Mr. Mario Pescante, 
Permanent  Observer  of  the  International  Olympic 
Committee, for his dedication to the cause of sport and 
his valuable contribution to this ideal. 

Today,  sport  has  become  part  of  the  DNA  of  the 
United  Nations  and  an  effective  tool  that  should 
henceforth  be 
topics 
addressed  by  the  Organization,  as  we  saw  during  the 
negotiations  on  the  outcome  document  of  the  High-
level  Meeting  on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(resolution  65/1).  I  would  like  to  reiterate  Tunisia’s 
resolve  to  continue  its  efforts  designed  to  make  sport, 
through 
and 
rapprochement, a powerful channel for integration and 
development  both  nationally  and  internationally,  as 
well as a means of promoting solidarity, tolerance and 
cultural  and  human  diversity.  I  would  also  like  to 
commend  the  attention  that  the  Member  States  as  a 
whole have given to sport and their appreciation of its 
universal  character  as  a  tool  for  promoting  peace, 
development, education and health. 

I  wish  to  take  advantage  of  this  opportunity  to 
warmly  congratulate  South  Africa  on  its  successful 
conduct  of  the  2010  World  Cup,  as  well  as  to  the 
Government  of  Canada  for 
the 
XXI Olympic  Winter  Games  and  the  X  Paralympic 
Winter  Games,  held 
in  Vancouver.  These  events 
highlighted sport’s ability to bring people together and 
to  act  as  a  catalyst  for  friendship  and  the  spirit  of 
sportsmanship among athletes and fans, whatever their 
origins, nationalities or beliefs. 

its  vital 
contribution  to  the  emergence  of  new  generations 
thirsting  for  physical  and  mental  well-being,  Tunisia 
would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  urge  Member 
States  to  pursue  every  possible  measure  necessary  to 
deal with the menace of doping, which endangers both 
athletes’  health  and  sport’s  image  and  credibility.  We 
welcome  the  growing  number  of  Member  States  that 
have  signed 
the  International  Convention  against 
Doping  in  Sport,  the  chief  world  instrument  for 
combating this dangerous scourge, adopted at the 2005 
UNESCO General Conference. 

We  must  also  ensure  that  young  people  are 
educated  on  the  ethics  of  sport  through  educational 
systems 
and 
the  nobility  of  sport  and 
the  success  of 
associations 
society 
Given 
and 
civil 
14 

11-55063 
the  Olympic 
friendship 
the  uniting 
sport  and 
they  organize 


organizations,  so  that  sport  arenas  and  events  are  not 
used  to  express  slogans  steeped  in  the  vocabulary  of 
racism, xenophobia and the rejection of others. 

In order to foster that dynamic and to make sport 
a  means  for  promoting  universal  principles  for  future 
generations,  I  am  pleased  to  congratulate  the  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland  on  its 
draft resolution entitled “Building a peaceful and better 
world 
ideal” 
through 
(A/66/L.3),  as 
the  XXX  Olympic 
Summer  Games  and  the  XIV  Paralympic  Summer 
Games,  to  be  held  in  London  in  2012.  The  draft 
resolution  affirms  respect  for  the  Olympic  Truce  and 
the  ideals  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  Olympic 
Movement,  namely, 
among  peoples, 
harmony,  non-violence  and  non-discrimination  —  in 
other  words, 
ideals  and  common 
denominators  of  the  universal  principles  that  bring  us 
all together in the Hall. 

I  hope  that  all  Member  States  will  support  the 
draft  resolution,  thereby  sending  a  strong  message  to 
all those who work for the noble practice of sport and 
greatly encouraging every athlete. 
has 

traditionally recognized the value of sport in building a 
peaceful  and  better  world  and  promoting  tolerance, 
equality and understanding among people and nations. 
Sport  is  a  shared  public  good  that  can,  through  its 
unique  convening  power,  bring  people 
together 
irrespective of their race, religion, political opinion or 
gender. The Government of Ukraine believes firmly in 
the potential  of sport to contribute to the achievement 
of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) and to 
make  a  real  difference  in  people’s  lives,  including  for 
the most vulnerable groups. 

than  ever,  sport  and  physical 
activities take on growing significance in the context of 
health  security.  The  General  Assembly  High-level 
Meeting  on 
and  Control  of 
Non-communicable  Diseases,  recently  held  in  New 
York,  recognized  the  threat  of  such  diseases,  which 
constitutes  one  of 
for 
development  in  the  twenty-first  century.  The  Meeting 
also provided us with strong evidence of the important 
role that sport and physical activity play in preventing 
the most prevalent of those diseases. 
In  Ukraine,  sport  and  physical  education  are 

considered  from  the  broader  perspective  of  promoting 
(Ukraine):  Ukraine 
Mr.  Tsymbaliuk
the  Prevention 
the  major 
challenges 
Today  more 
A/66/PV.34
healthy  lifestyles.  This  constitutes  a  strategic  priority 
of  Government  policy.  We  believe  that  using  holistic 
multisectoral  approaches  for  sport  can  be  a  most 
effective  way  to  help  achieve  the  MDGs,  including 
those on health and education. 

For  its  part,  Ukraine  is  committed  to  promoting 
sport as a means to advancing peace and development 
in the world. My country is considering the possibility 
of  submitting  a  bid  to  host  the  2022  Olympic  and 
Paralympic Games in the Carpathian region. 
I am pleased to note that in June of next year my 

the  fourteenth 
country  and  Poland  will  co-host 
championship  of 
the  Union  des  Associations 
Européennes de Football — EURO 2012 — which will 
be  the  first  such  championship  to  be  held  in  Eastern 
Europe. It is our sincere hope that this major event will 
renew  the  spirit  of  friendship  and  solidarity  in  the 
region,  contributing  to  social  progress  and  economic 
development as a whole. 

In  its  efforts  to  make  EURO  2012  a  real 
celebration of football, Ukraine has launched a number 
of  ambitious  projects  to  construct  the  necessary  sport 
facilities  and  infrastructure  that  meet  the  highest 
international standards. 

We  also  consider  EURO  2012  as  an  opportunity 
to enhance the potential of Ukrainian youth in meeting 
social  challenges  and 
their  awareness, 
confidence  and  sense  of  responsibility.  For  example, 
the Sport and Youth Service of Ukraine has initiated a 
campaign  on  the  theme  “Let’s  do  it  together”  to 
encourage 
communication,  healthy 
lifestyles  and  violence  prevention.  It  also  aims  at 
organizing  a  series  of  different  sporting  events  for 
children  and  youth,  as  well  as  building  the  necessary 
capacity. 

Guided  by  the  noble  ideals  and  principles  of  the 
Paralympic  Movement,  Ukraine  attaches  particular 
importance 
to 
rehabilitate persons with disabilities and enhance their 
social  inclusion.  The  Ukraine  Centre  for  Physical 
Education  and  Sport  for  Persons  with  Disabilities  is  a 
unique  State  institution  that  encompasses  27  regional 
centres,  106 local  offices  and  26  sport  schools  for 
children  with  disabilities.  More  than  51,000  persons 
with  disabilities  actively  practice  sport  and  use  it  for 
the purposes of rehabilitation. Ukraine is proud of our 
athletes  with  disabilities  and  our  paralympians.  Our 
the  use  of  sport  as  a  means 
interpersonal 
raising 
to 
11-55063 

15 
and 
development 
A/66/PV.34 

national team won fourth place at the 2008 Paralympic 
Summer Games, held in Beijing. 

We emphasize the importance of the mass media 
in raising awareness on the values of sport and healthy 
lifestyles  and  increasing  physical  activity  among  the 
entire population. In that regard, our National Olympic 
Committee has initiated work to set up a national sport 
channel in Ukraine. 

My  delegation  commends  the  efforts  of  the 
United  Nations  Office  on  Sport  for  Development  and 
Peace  aimed  at  advocating  sport  as  a  tool  to  achieve 
humanitarian 
peacebuilding, 
objectives.  We  express  our  full  support  for 
its 
activities. 
We would also like to thank the United Kingdom 

for introducing the draft resolution entitled “Building a 
peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport  and  the 
Olympic  ideal”  (A/66/L.3),  which  Ukraine  is  pleased 
to sponsor. 
Mr.  Hassan  (Yemen)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On 

behalf of my Government, I would first like to express 
our  appreciation  to  the  Member  States  that  have 
become  sponsors  of  the  important  draft  resolution 
before the Assembly, entitled “Building a peaceful and 
better  world  through  sport  and  the  Olympic  ideal” 
(A/66/L.3). That is especially significant given that the 
United Kingdom is to host the XXX Olympic Summer 
Games in 2012. The United Kingdom also had a major 
role  in  1948,  when  it  also  hosted  the  Olympics  and 
promoted  the  idea  of  participation  in  the  Games  by 
persons with spinal injuries, becoming a pioneer in that 
respect. 

I should like to point out that football flourished 
in my country during the 1950s and early 1960s. Aden 
led  the Arabian  peninsula  at  the  time  that  the  United 
Kingdom  was  present  in  the  southern  part  of  my 
country. In that regard, in spite of our scarce resources, 
we have sought to encourage every sort of sport. 

The  participation  of  the  Vice-President  of  the 
International Olympic Committee in our meeting today 
is proof of the importance of this subject and serves to 
enhance the culture of peace throughout the world. 

The fact that many Member States have embraced 
this  draft  resolution  is  proof  that  sports  and  the 
Olympic  ideals  are  a  contributing  factor  in  affirming 
the  values  and  principles  of  sport  as  a  way  to  help 
young  people  to  develop  their  potential,  provided  that 

integration  and  economic  development 
sports  are  never  politicized  or  monopolized  by  a 
certain country. 
Mr. Haron (Malaysia): We are all from different 

nationalities, languages, backgrounds and cultures. We 
each  have  distinct  modalities  and  approaches 
in 
making  our  world  and  our  communities  safe,  content 
and  dynamic,  ensuring  education  and  employment, 
health and social services and, most important, creating 
peaceful  communities  where  we  may  live  without 
conflict  or  fear.  Despite  our  diversity,  we  come 
together  to  recognize  that  we  all  speak  a  single 
language  and  that  we  all  share  a  single,  simple  to  use 
and yet powerful tool, that is, sport. 

Sport has a unique power to attract, mobilize and 
inspire. By its very nature, sport is about participation. 
It is about social inclusion. It stands for human values 
such as the acceptance of binding rules and discipline, 
teamwork  and  fairness.  However,  it  can  be  more  than 
that.  Sport  plays  a  significant  role  as  a  promoter  of 
social 
in 
different  geographical,  cultural  and  political  contexts. 
Sport  is  an  influential  instrument  for  strengthening 
social ties and networks and for promoting the ideals of 
peace,  fraternity,  solidarity,  non-violence,  tolerance 
and, not least, justice. 

Malaysia considers itself a young nation, and it is 
fair to see sport as  an agent of change  and catalyst  of 
our  successful  nation-building  process.  Since  our 
independence,  sport  has  contributed  to  developing  the 
spirit  of  Malaysia  as  a  nation  and  has  promoted 
national 
integration  among  multiracial  groups.  In 
sports,  nationalism  serves  as  a  natural  framework  for 
unifying  people  and  is  invaluable  in  consolidating 
Malaysia’s multiracial society. In order to fully harness 
sport’s  potential  in  that  context,  appropriate  national 
policies,  investments  and  capacities  are  needed  to 
support  and,  where  appropriate,  scale  up  national 
programmes. At  the  national  level,  Governments  must 
be  aware  of  the  power  of  sport  to  help  meet  their 
domestic  development  goals  and  the  importance  of 
integrating  sport  into  their  development  strategies  and 
approaches. 

in  sports’ 
transformational  potential,  Prime  Minister  Dato’  Sri 
Mohd  Najib  bin  Tun  Haji  Abdul  Razak,  who  was 
Minister  of  Culture,  Youth  and  Sports 
in  1988, 
spearheaded  the  formulation  of  the  National  Sport 
Policy  in  order  to  implement  various  projects  to 
Based  on  foresight  and  a  belief 
16 

11-55063 
are  defined  by 
competition.  They 


inculcate patriotism in the citizens. Sports programmes 
and  cultural  activities  were  planned  to  create  a  deep-
rooted  national  feeling  of  unity  among  multiracial 
groups  and  were  applauded  as  a  large-scale  extension 
of  a  feeling  of  togetherness  and  unity.  On  the  way 
forward,  the  Sport  Development  Act  of  1997  was 
enacted 
to  further  stipulate  guidelines  on  sports 
development  in  order  to  promote  and  mainstream  the 
development  and  administration  of  sport  in  Malaysia. 
Those  initiatives  have  only  one  aim  —  developing  a 
more prosperous, healthy and united community. 

Malaysia  supports  the  promotion  of  sport  for 
persons  with  disabilities  as  a  crucial  step  in  changing 
attitudes and building community support. In Malaysia, 
many  local  projects  include  community  education, 
which is also important at the international level. With 
regard  to  public  awareness  of  inclusivity,  paralympics 
are  not  defined  by  disability,  but  by  opportunity  and 
fierce 
the 
strengthening of friendship, sincerity, camaraderie and 
what it means to be human. 

Malaysia  has  been  taking  part  in  international 
disability  sports  competitions  since  the  early  1970s, 
including  multisport  and  multidisability  competitions, 
single-disability 
single-sport 
competitions.  We  have  hosted  various  international 
events  including  the  first  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian  Nations  (ASEAN)  Para  Games  in  2001  and  the 
ninth  Far  East  and  South  Pacific  Games  for  the 
Disabled in 2006. Malaysia is also honoured to be one 
of  the  founders  of  the ASEAN  Para  Sports  Federation 
in 2000 and the Asian Paralympic Council in 2002. The 
secretariats  of  both  organizations  are  based  in  Kuala 
Lumpur, our capital city. 

Malaysia  is  a  strong  believer  that  achieving 
success at the international level acts as an inspiration 
that conveys a message to the international community 
of  greater  solidarity,  social  cohesion  and  peaceful 
coexistence  worldwide.  In  that  regard,  Malaysia  is 
proud  to  mention  here  that  the  years  2010  and  2011 
have  been  extraordinary  for  the  Olympic  Council  of 
Malaysia  and 
the  Malaysian  sport  arena  overall. 
Malaysia participated in five multisport games, namely, 
the first Youth Olympic Games, held in Singapore, the 
XIX  Commonwealth  Games  held  in  New  Delhi,  the 
sixteenth  Asian  Games  organized 
in  Guangzhou, 
China,  in  2010,  the  second  Asian  Beach  Games  in 
Muscat, Oman, in 2010, and the seventh Asian Winter 
Games held in 2011 in Astana, Kazakhstan.  
competitions 
and 
A/66/PV.34
at 
to 
the 
campaign 
to 
results, 
especially 
in  New  Delhi, 
The  Malaysian  contingent  has  achieved  very 

encouraging 
the  XIX 
Commonwealth  Games  held  in  New  Delhi  in  October 
2010,  where  Malaysia  garnered  12  gold  medals, 
10 silver  medals  and  14  bronze  medals,  surpassing  its 
record  of  10  gold  medals  won  at  the  Kuala  Lumpur 
1998 Commonwealth Games. Riding on the success of 
the  Commonwealth  Games 
the 
Malaysian  contingent  to  the  sixteenth  Asian  Games 
held  in  Guangzhou  in  November  2010  won  9  gold 
medals,  18  silver  medals  and  14  bronze  medals, 
bettering  its  record  of  8  gold  medals  won  in  Doha  at 
the fifteenth Asian Games held in 2006. 

The next nine months will be another challenging 
and exciting period for Malaysia, as the main focus of 
the  Olympic  Council  of  Malaysia  and 
the  elite 
Malaysian  athletes  will  be  busy  qualifying  for  the 
London  2012  Olympic  Games.  To  celebrate 
the 
countdown  to  the  2012  Olympic  and  Paralympics 
Games  to  be  held  in  London,  in  2009  the  Malaysian 
Government launched the Road to London 2012 and a 
nationwide 
promote  widespread 
awareness and exposure of the programme. 

While sport alone cannot prevent conflict or build 
peace,  it  can  assist  in  peacebuilding  interventions. 
Peacebuilding  is  a  continuing  process  ranging  from 
violence  prevention  to  humanitarian  relief  and  from 
early  recovery 
long-term  construction  or 
reconstruction  of  society.  Raising  awareness  and 
building support among political, community and civil 
society  leaders  and  senior  Government  officials  are 
critical  first  steps  in  mobilizing  Government  action 
around  sport  for  development  and  peace.  Through 
collaboration  and  cooperation,  Governments  should 
strengthen 
to 
overcome development challenges and, in turn, achieve 
the Millennium Development Goals. 

In short, Malaysia believes in the concept of sport 
for  the  development  of  peace.  We  have  faith  in  the 
ability of sport to transcend socio-cultural and political 
boundaries  and  in  its  capacity  as  a  powerful  global 
communications  platform.  It  has  the  potential  to 
empower,  motivate  and  inspire  natural  abilities  and  to 
draw  on,  develop  and  showcase  individual  strengths 
and competencies. 
in 

French):  The  agenda  item  under  consideration  today, 
entitled  “Sport  for  peace  and  development:  building  a 
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon)  (spoke 
towards  using  sport 
their  efforts 
11-55063 

17 

in 
the  settlement  of  disputes 
A/66/PV.34 

peaceful  and  better  world  through  sport  and  the 
Olympic ideal”, represents quite an array of activities. 
It  is  embodied  in  draft  resolution  A/66/L.3,  of  which 
Cameroon is a sponsor. 

There are only a few months remaining before the 
Olympic  and  Paralympic  Games  are  held  in  London. 
Now,  during  the  sixty-sixth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  with  its  special  theme  of  “The  role  of 
mediation 
through 
peaceful  means”,  the  introduction  at  this  juncture  of 
this  agenda  item  and  this  draft  resolution,  which  has 
received  broad-based  support,  points  to  the  desire  of 
the  international  community  to  set  about  building  a 
better  world  through  the  Olympic  ideal.  My  country, 
which  owes  its  global  renown  to  the  sports  policy 
pursued by our head of State, His Excellency Mr. Paul 
Biya,  knows  just  how  much  it  owes  in  terms  in  terms 
of international recognition to the achievements of our 
athletes  in  the  international  arena,  particularly  the 
Indomitable Lions of Cameroon. 

Amateur  sport  and  professional  sport  are  not 
possible  except  in  an  environment  of  peace.  While 
sport can point to peace, it can also bring about peace 
between people. This has been the case since the dawn 
of  time,  as  we  can  see  in  Greek  tradition,  which  has 
become  universal  today,  with  the  Olympic  Truce, 
which involved a cessation of hostilities for seven days 
before  the  Olympic  Games  and  seven  days  after,  in 
keeping with the instructions of the legendary oracle of 
Delphi,  with  a  view  to  replacing  the  cycle  of  conflict 
every four years with a friendly athletic competition.  

Another illustration, this time from more modern 
times,  of  the  role  of  sport  as  a  driver  for  peace  is  the 
fraternizing between Turkey and Armenia that resulted 
from  a  football  match,  which  took  place  on  the 
occasion  of  the  first  exchange  of  visits  by  the  leaders 
of those countries in September 2008. We also saw the 
same  friendly  relations  manifest  in  the  support  by  the 
North Korean people for the South Korean team during 
its  brilliant  performance 
in  2002  World  Cup 
competition,  moving  across  physical  barriers  and 
political disagreements that have kept the two countries 
at odds for the past five decades. 

Another  eloquent  example  is  the  great  unity  and 
symbiosis created in South Africa’s multiracial society 
in  1995  when  that  country’s  team  won  the  Rugby 
World  Cup  only  a  year  after  the  end  of  apartheid  and 
despite  the  rancour  and  discrimination  that  were  still 
rife in South Africa then. 

In  my  own  country,  Cameroon,  sport  in  general 
and  football  in  particular,  are  a  powerful  factor  for 
social  cohesion,  fraternity  and  national  harmony  —  a 
bedrock  of  peace  and  development.  Cameroon’s 
conviction  that  sport  can  play  a  catalyzing  role  in 
peace  and  development  was  expressed  on  numerous 
occasions by our President of the Republic Paul Biya, 
and by our Minister for Foreign Affairs, most recently 
during  2010  celebration  of  the  Days  of  Africa,  just 
before  the  Soccer  World  Cup  organized  in  South 
Africa. 

The  examples  that  I  have  just  mentioned  to 
illustrate  the  catalyzing  role  of  sport  show  perfectly 
that the ideal of peace can indeed be achieved through 
sport. My country therefore joins its voice to that of all 
Member States and relevant stakeholders in the appeal 
launched  by  the  draft  resolution  that  we  are  about  to 
adopt,  so  as  to  ensure  that  the  Olympic  Truce  is 
respected in accordance with the Charter of the United 
Nations and the spirit of the ancient Olympics.  
the 

Assembly and the Secretary-General of the support and 
unwavering cooperation of my delegation. 
Mr. Diallo (Senegal) (spoke in French): We meet 

here  today,  as  tradition  would  have  it,  in  the  year 
before  the  Olympic  Games  in  order  to  nourish  our 
reflections  on 
the 
beautiful  trio  of  sport,  peace  and  development.  From 
27  July 
to 
9 September 2012 the world of sport will be together in 
the  city  of  London  to  organize  sporting  events  in 
celebration  of 
the 
XIV Paralympic  Games.  It  will  no  doubt  be  an 
important  moment,  one  of 
the  biggest  human 
gatherings of the modern world, replete with symbols, 
teachings, experiences and high stakes.  

Peace and Development Forum in Geneva last May,  

“Sport  has  become  a  world  language,  a  common 
denominator  that  breaks  down  all  the  walls,  all 
the  barriers  …  It  is  a  worldwide  industry  whose 
practices can have widespread impact”. 

Beyond  the  various  sports  activities  that  the 
youth  of  the  world  will  be  participating  in  when  they 
fair  play,  healthy 
visit  London 
As  the  Secretary-General  said  at  the  Sport  for 
to  12  August  and  from  29  August 
to  conclude  by  assuring 
the  dialectic 
that  flows  from 
in  a  spirit  of 
I  would 
like 
the  XXX  Olympiad 
and 
18 

11-55063 


competitiveness,  competition,  a  taste  for  victory,  the 
joy  and  humility  in  victory  and  dignity  in  defeat, 
perseverance  in  effort,  in  short,  sportsmanship,  it  is 
worth underscoring that this global athletic meeting is 
the  irrefutable  symbol  of  a  true  communion  of  our 
international  community.  That  is  the  spirit  that  the 
pedagogue Pierre de Coubertin, the founding father of 
the modern Olympic Games, sought to confer on sport, 
an  unrivalled  activity  of  coming  together  and  sharing, 
escape, high humour, addiction to the unexpected, and 
the notion of finding the right amount of effort to apply 
without expending unnecessary force. In this often too-
tormented  world,  the  Olympic  Movement  can  provide 
hope  and  brotherhood  and  build  bridges  between 
continents,  crossing  social  divides  and  political 
systems and regimes. 

Senegal,  a  sponsor  of  draft  resolution  A/66/L.3, 
which  we  hope  will  be  adopted,  welcomes  the  great 
enthusiasm  and  international  solidarity  for  promoting 
the  ideals  of  peace  everywhere  and  for  all  time 
through, in particular, sport.  

As  we  call  upon  Member  States  to  observe  the 
Olympic  Truce  throughout  the  entire  period  from  the 
opening  ceremony  to  the  closing  ceremony  of  the 
Games, the international community seeks to renew its 
ambition  to  build  a  better  world,  using  sport  to  forge 
friendships  among  athletes,  youth  and  communities 
around the world. Such concerns, furthermore, are the 
bedrock of the Charter of the Organization.  
International  Olympic  Truce 

Foundation, 
the  International  Olympic  Committee 
seeks,  among other goals, to encourage the politicians 
of the world to work for peace. May the Olympic Truce 
that  is  symbolized  by  the  dove  placed  before  the 
Olympic  flame  always  shine  and  fill  our  hearts,  in  an 
era  characterized  by  fear  of  war  and  violence,  with 
hope for the coming of a world of peace.  

I  would  also  like  to  express  our  country’s  full 
support  for 
launched  by 
Mr. Hugh  Robertson,  Minister  for  Sport  and 
the 
Olympics of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern  Ireland,  called  “International  Inspiration”, 
which is an ambitious programme that seeks to use the 
power  of  sport  to  enrich  the  lives  of  thousands  of 
children and youth around the world, particularly in the 
developing  world,  by  helping  them  to  gain  the  skills 
they  need  to  become  positive  sports  role  models  and 
inspiration for their peers. It is on this note of hope that 
the  welcome 
initiative 
Through 
the 
A/66/PV.34
I would like to conclude — the hope that all Olympic 
activities  may  contribute  to  the  ideals  of  peace, 
brotherhood and solidarity that our Organization holds 
so dear. 

Ms.  Alsaleh  (Syria)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 
delegation wishes to join the consensus and sign up as 
a  co-sponsor  of  draft  resolution  A/66/L.3,  in  light  of 
the  noble  objectives  and  lofty  expectations  that  all  of 
us  in  the  international  community  seek  to  fulfil  .  We 
firmly  believe  that  sport  has  a  significant  role  to  play 
in  promoting  education,  health,  development  and 
peace, as well as in building solidarity among peoples. 

Between 24 September and 3 October 2010, Syria 
hosted  the  Paralympic  Games,  organized  under  the 
auspices  of  our  First  Lady.  Many  States  participated, 
bringing nearly 2,000 athletes — men and women — to 
compete in 15 different Olympic sports.  

At  the  same  time,  we  believe  that  the  draft 
resolution  should  not  be  used  as  a  pretext  to  focus  on 
building  peace  only  occasionally.  We  believe  that 
Member  States  need  to  focus  on  building  a  world  of 
peace  in  all  areas,  under  all  circumstances  and  at  all 
times  in  a  manner  that  ensures  respect  for  justice, 
rejection  of  foreign  occupation  and  respect  among  all 
States, in conformity with the Charter. 

the floor to the observer of the Holy See. 

the 
General Assembly takes up agenda item 11 on sport for 
peace  and  development,  my  delegation  recalls  the 
important role of sport in promoting the comprehensive 
development of the human person and the construction 
of  a  truly  human  society,  based  on  respect  for  the 
dignity of each and every person. 

Next year the international community will come 
together to celebrate the Games of the XXX Olympiad 
and  the  XIV  Paralympic  Games  in  London.  The 
Olympic  Charter  reminds  us  that  the  ultimate  purpose 
of  the  Games  is  to  place  sport  at  the  service  of  the 
harmonious  development  of  human  persons,  with  a 
view  to  promoting  a  peaceful  society  concerned  with 
the preservation of human dignity. On this occasion, as 
the  world  prepares  for  those  important  events,  we  are 
reminded  of  the  role  of  sport  in  the  life  of  the  human 
family. 
potential, 

especially for young people, and for that reason it is of 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  give 
Archbishop  Chullikatt  (Holy  See):  As 
educational 
notable 
Sport 
has 
11-55063 

19 
to 
To 
those 
achieve 
lofty  objectives, 
A/66/PV.34 

great importance not only as recreation but also in the 
formation  of  the  human  person.  Sport  is  among  the 
means  belonging 
the  common  patrimony  of 
humankind and that are agents for moral perfection and 
human  formation.  If  that  is  true  for  sport  activity  in 
general,  it  is  all  the  more  so  for  that  carried  out  in 
schools  and  sports  associations,  for  the  purpose  of 
ensuring  a  human  and  value-based  formation  of  new 
generations. 

Sport  pursued  with  passion  and  vigilant  ethical 
sense becomes, especially for youth, training in healthy 
competitiveness and physical improvement. It can be a 
school of formation in human and spiritual values and 
a  privileged  means  of  personal  growth  and  of  contact 
with society. Sport can inculcate such important values 
as  love  of  life,  the  spirit  of  sacrifice,  fair  play, 
perseverance,  respect  for  others,  friendship,  sharing 
and solidarity. 

sport 
nevertheless  needs  to  discover  its  deepest  ethos  and 
comply  with  the  basic  principle  of  the  primacy  of  the 
human  person.  In  that  regard,  a  healthy  approach  to 
sport must be adopted so that it is not practiced as  an 
end in itself — in which case it risks becoming a vain 
and  harmful  idol  —  but  is  made  a  meaningful 
instrument  for  the  comprehensive  development  of  the 
person  and  the  construction  of  a  society  suited  to  the 
human  person.  When  understood  in  this  way,  sport  is 
not  an  end  but  a  means,  and  can  become  a  vehicle  of 
civility  and  genuine  recreation,  encouraging  people  to 
put  the  best  of  themselves  on  the  field  and  to  avoid 
what  might  be  unreasonably  dangerous  or  seriously 
harmful to themselves or others. 

Through  sport  activities,  the  community  can 
contribute  to  the  formation  of  young  people,  offering 
an  appropriate  ambit  for  their  human  and  spiritual 
growth.  In  fact,  when  they  are  directed  to  the  integral 
development  of  the  person  and  managed  by  qualified 
and  competent  personnel,  sport 
initiatives  reveal 
themselves  to  be  propitious  opportunities  to  become 
true and proper educators and teachers of life for young 
people. 

It  is  therefore  necessary  that  in  our  time  —  in 
which  we  see 
to  educate  new 
generations  —  communities  continue  to  support  sport 
for  young  people  so  that  they  can  fully  appreciate 
competitive  activity,  including  its  positive  aspects. 
Those 
stimulate 
the  urgent  need 
capacity 
include 
its 
to 

in 
it  can 
is  demanded  of 
those  participating 
Before  I  conclude,  allow  me 
competitiveness, courage and tenacity in the pursuit of 
objectives, while avoiding negative tendencies that can 
pervert its very nature. 
The  Olympic  motto  of  Citius,  Altius,  Fortius  — 

“Faster,  Higher,  Stronger”  —  not  only  reminds  us  of 
what 
the 
upcoming  Games,  but  also  acts  as  an  invitation  to  all 
persons  to  be  more  committed  to  the  advancement  of 
peace and development so as to build a better world. 

May  sport  always  be  a  valued  building  block  of 
peace,  solidarity  and  friendship  among  peoples  and 
that 
nations,  so 
truly  make  an  effective 
contribution 
to  peaceful  understanding  between 
peoples  and  to  establishing  a  civilization  rooted  in 
love. 

to  offer  my 
delegation’s best wishes to the organizers and the host 
city of London for the success of the next Olympic and 
Paralympic Games. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In 

accordance with resolution 64/3, of 19 October 2009, I 
now call on the observer for the International Olympic 
Committee. 
Mr. Pescante (International Olympic Committee) 

(spoke 
International  Olympic 
Committee  (IOC)  conveys  its  compliments  to  the 
General  Assembly.  On  behalf  of  the  IOC,  I  am 
honoured  to  have  this  opportunity  to  discuss  the 
Olympic  Truce  and  the  role  of  sport  in  promoting  a 
more peaceful world. 

Allow  me  first  to  thank  those  who  have  helped 
bring us to this point. The IOC expresses its gratitude 
in  particular 
the  United 
the  organizing 
Kingdom, 
to 
committee of the Olympic and Paralympic committees 
in  London  for  having  allowed  these  matters  to  be 
brought to the attention of the General Assembly as we 
move  towards  the  XXX  Olympiad  and  the  games 
thereof next summer. 

We  are  particularly  grateful  that  this  esteemed 
body  has  approved  the  Olympic  Truce  resolution 
entitled “Building a peaceful and better world through 
sport  and  the  Olympic  ideal”  before  every  edition  of 
the  Games  since  1994.  Cooperation  between  the  IOC 
and  the  United  Nations  on  this  issue  has  helped  build 
the  foundation  for  our  deep  and  growing  partnership. 
The  links  between  us  have  grown  even  stronger  since 
to 
the  colleagues  of 
the  Government  of 
in  French):  The 
20 

11-55063 


the  General  Assembly,  at  its  sixty-fourth  session, 
granted  the  IOC  Permanent  Observer  status  just  two 
years ago. 

Today  we  again  request  the  Assembly’s  support 
for the Olympic Truce. I would also like to express our 
thanks to the Group of Friends of Sport. This informal 
group  of  Permanent  Representatives  from  more  than 
40 United Nations Member States has played a leading 
role  in  support  of  the  Olympic  Truce  and  the  broader 
effort  to  integrate  sport  into  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations across a wide range of issues. 

The  draft  resolution  under  consideration  by  the 
General Assembly today (A/66/L.3) is far more than a 
symbolic  act.  The  Olympic  Truce  sends  a  powerful 
message that reaffirms the role of sport as an antidote 
to conflict. It is a message rooted in antiquity, but it is 
just  as  relevant  in  the  age  of  the  Internet  as  it  was  in 
ancient Greece. 
(spoke in English) 

Another  world  is  possible,  also  thanks  to  sport 
and  the  Olympics.  Centuries  of  history  teach  us  this 
lesson.  It  was  right  at  the  start,  in  776  B.C,  on  the 
occasion  of  the  first  games  at  Olympia,  that  the 
Olympic  Truce  was  first  proclaimed.  The  polis,  the 
city-States  of  those  times,  which  were  even  more 
bellicose  than  today’s  States,  respected  the  sacred 
nature  of 
the  games.  The  great  Greek  historian 
Herodotus  tells  how  even  the  battle  of  Thermopylae 
was  delayed  by  the  Olympic  Games.  This  is  our 
inheritance  from  distant  times  past.  Another  world  is 
possible, thanks again to sport and the Olympic Games. 
That  was  the  ideal  that,  at  the  end  of  the  nineteenth 
century,  fired  the  heart  of  Baron  de  Coubertin,  who 
successfully  dedicated  his  life  and  work  to  returning 
the Olympic Games to humanity. 

During  the  last  century,  the  Olympic  Games  did 
not  stop  wars;  wars  stopped  the  games,  as  occurred 
during  the  world  conflicts  that  afflicted  the  twentieth 
century. Nonetheless, that spirit of peace, of encounter 
and of tolerance has remained the dominant impulse of 
Olympic  action,  a  philosophy 
that  some  would 
characterize by the credo that “the important thing is to 
participate”. 

“Participate”  is  the  verb  that  motivates  all  our 
activities  —  participate  in  competitions  with  full 
respect for the rules and for the opponent, who is never 
an  enemy;  and  participate  in  the  construction  of  a 
A/66/PV.34
world that does not divide men and women or boys and 
girls on ethnic grounds or because of their language or 
religion,  but  which  instead  sees  them  as  one,  as  they 
are here at the United Nations. 

Sport  and  the  Olympic  Games  tell  the  story  of 
this union. Again and again the diplomacy of peace has 
used sports arenas of all sizes and shapes, from a ping-
pong table, where a thaw in relations between America 
and China was negotiated, to a cricket pitch, where we 
are now witnessing the current rapprochement between 
India  and  Pakistan,  to  a  football  stadium,  such  as  the 
one  in  Rome  where  Yasser Arafat  and  Shimon  Peres, 
two  Nobel  Peace  Prize  winners,  sat  side  by  side  in 
2000  during  a  football  match  between  Israel  and 
Palestine,  to  the  podium  at  the  2008  Beijing  Games, 
where  two  mothers  representing  Georgia  and  Russia, 
two  nations  at  war,  embraced  in  a  simple  gesture  as 
two women,  not two enemies. We saw the same spirit 
at work in a parade of athletes, when a people divided 
by  a  border  that  had  been  invented  by  war  joined 
together  behind  a  single  flag.  Such  was  the  case  of 
Germany,  united  for  the  first  time  at  the  1960  Rome 
Games,  and  later  of  Korea,  which  paraded  with  an 
athlete from the North and one from the South carrying 
the same flag at the 2000 Sydney Games.  

This  is  not  rhetoric,  but  rather  the  chronicles  of 
what we have seen during the events that constitute the 
Olympic  Games,  which  are  uniquely  global  in  these 
times of globalization. 

Participate — that is what youth across the world 
are asking to do in these times of world crisis, as they 
bear  witness  to  the  thirst  for  freedom,  democracy  and 
peace  that  new  technologies  have  spread  across  the 
globe.  When  they  speak  of  values,  these  young  men 
and  women  are  not  referring  to  stock  exchange 
indexes. 

the 
Olympic Truce. To those who have yet again seconded 
it,  to  those  who  are  supporting  it  for  the  first  time, 
thank  you  on  behalf  of  the  International  Olympic 
Committee. I thank them, above all, on behalf of those 
millions of men and women, especially  young people, 
who  in  whatever  part  of  the  world  are  suffering  the 
grief, pain  and ill-treatment caused by each  and every 
war.  We  hope  that,  thanks  to  sport,  they  will  find  a 
little relief from their tragedies. 
In closing, allow me to paraphrase the memorable 

sentence  spoken  by  the  first  man  to  set  foot  on  the 
thank  members  for 
I 
their  support  for 
11-55063 

21 

like 
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
A/66/PV.34 

moon.  The  Olympic  Truce  is  one  small  step  for 
mankind, yet one giant leap for humankind. 

I thank the United Nations for accomplishing that 
together  with  us  and  together  with  the  Olympic 
Movement. 
The President (spoke in Arabic): We have heard 

the last speaker in the debate on agenda item 11 and its 
sub-item (a). 

We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution 
A/66/L.3,  entitled  “Building  a  peaceful  and  better 
world through sport and the Olympic ideal”. 

Secretariat. 
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  of  General  Assembly 

and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
to 
announce  that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft 
resolution, and in addition to those delegations listed in 
A/66/L.3,  the  following  countries  have  also  become 
sponsors  of  the  draft:  Argentina,  Bahamas,  Bahrain, 
Barbados,  Belarus,  Bhutan,  the  Plurinational  State  of 
Bolivia,  Botswana,  Brunei  Darussalam,  the  Central 
African  Republic,  Chad,  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea,  Dominica,  Equatorial  Guinea, 
Ghana,  Grenada,  Guinea,  Guinea-Bissau,  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  Iraq,  Kiribati,  the  Marshall  Islands, 
Mauritania,  Mozambique,  the  Niger,  the  Philippines, 
Samoa,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe,  Saudi  Arabia, 
Seychelles,  South  Sudan,  Suriname,  the  Syrian  Arab 
Republic,  Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu,  Uzbekistan, 
the 
Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela,  Yemen  and 
Zimbabwe. 
The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

will  now  take  action  on  draft  resolution  A/66/L.3, 
entitled “Building a peaceful and better world through 
sport  and  the  Olympic  ideal”.  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly  wishes  to  adopt  draft  decision  A/66/L.3 
without a vote? 

Draft resolution A/66/L.3 was adopted (resolution 
66/5). 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the  General  Assembly,  we  wish  every  success  to  the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland 
in hosting the Olympic Summer Games next year. 

The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage  of  its  consideration  of  agenda  item  11  and  its 
sub-item (a). 

Mr.  Zinsou  (Benin),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 





Agenda item 15 
Culture of peace  
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/66/280) 

  Note by the Secretary-General (A/66/273) 

The  Acting  President:  I  wish  to  draw  the 

attention  of  the  General  Assembly  to  the  note  by  the 
Secretary-General 
the 
Director  General  of  the  United  Nations  Educational, 
Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization,  circulated  in 
document A/66/273. 
I wish also to draw the attention of members to a 

letter dated 11 August 2011 from the Secretary-General 
addressed  to  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly, 
transmitting  the  fourth  annual  report  of  the  High 
Representative 
the  Alliance  of  Civilizations, 
contained in document A/66/305. 
transmitting 
report  of 
the 
for 


Statement by the Acting President 
The  Acting  President:  The  Constitution  of  the 

United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural 
Organization states rightly that “since wars begin in the 
minds  of  men,  it  is  in  the  minds  of  men  that  the 
defences of peace must be constructed”. 

The  unanimous  adoption  in  1999  by  the  General 
Assembly of the Declaration and Programme of Action 
on  a  Culture  of  Peace  (resolution  53/243)  was 
motivated  by  this  very  truth.  In  this  respect,  the 
General Assembly reaffirmed the intellectual and moral 
solidarity  of  mankind.  That  historic,  norm-setting 
document  is  considered  one  of  the  most  significant 
legacies of the United Nations and one that will endure 
for generations. 

By  adopting  the  Declaration  and  Programme  of 
Action, the United Nations took the lead in laying the 
foundation  of  sustainable  world  peace  by  focusing  on 
the importance and the necessity of building a culture 
of peace. It stipulates that a culture of peace consists of 
values, attitudes and behaviours that reflect and inspire 
social  interaction  and  sharing  based  on  the  principles 
of  freedom,  justice  and  democracy,  all  human  rights, 
tolerance  and  solidarity;  which  reject  violence  and 
endeavour  to  prevent  conflicts  by  tackling  their  root 
causes 
through  dialogue  and 
to  solve  problems 
22 

11-55063 
and 
rights 
freedoms; 
fundamental 
justice,  democracy, 


negotiation;  and  that  guarantee  the  full  exercise  of  all 
rights  and  the  means  to  participate  fully  in  the 
development process of society.  

First and foremost, the Declaration called for full 
respect for the principles of the sovereignty, territorial 
integrity  and  political  independence  of  States  and 
non-intervention 
in  matters  which  are  essentially 
within  the  domestic  jurisdiction  of  any  State,  in 
accordance with the Charter of the United Nations and 
international law; full respect for and promotion of all 
human 
a 
commitment  to  the  peaceful  settlement  of  conflicts; 
efforts  to  meet  the  development  and  environmental 
needs of present and future generations; respect for and 
the promotion of the right to development; respect for 
and the promotion of equal rights and opportunities for 
women and men; respect for and the promotion of the 
right  of  everyone  to  freedom  of  expression,  opinion 
and  information;  and  adherence  to  the  principles  of 
freedom, 
tolerance,  solidarity, 
cooperation, pluralism, cultural diversity, dialogue and 
understanding  at  all  levels  of  society  and  among 
nations. All of these should be fostered by an enabling 
national  and 
is 
conducive to peace. 

The  Programme  of Action  (resolution  53/243  B) 
provides us all with a clear set of guidelines for action. 
It is a truly universal document that transcends borders, 
cultures, beliefs and societies. 

Last year, in its resolution 65/11 of 23 November 
2010, entitled “Implementation of the Declaration and 
Programme  of  Action  on  a  Culture  of  Peace”,  the 
General Assembly reiterated that  

“the objective of the effective implementation of 
the  Programme  of Action  on  a  Culture  of  Peace 
was  to  strengthen  further  the  global  movement 
for a culture of peace following the observance of 
the  International  Decade  for  a  Culture  of  Peace 
and  Non-violence  for  the  Children  of  the World, 
2001-2010,  and  call[ed]  upon  all  concerned  to 
renew 
that  objective” 
(resolution 65/11, para. 1). 
The  Programme  of  Action  also  emphasizes  that 

civil  society  needs  to  be  fully  engaged  in  the  fuller 
development  of  a  culture  of  peace  and  that  the 
educative and informative role of the media contributes 
to the promotion of a culture of peace. This special role 
of civil society, as well as that of the media and public 
international  environment 
attention 
their 
that 
to 
A/66/PV.34
is 
inseparable 
information,  will  strengthen  the  global  movement  for 
the  culture  of  peace  with  the  wholehearted  support  of 
all. 

The most significant way to promote a culture of 
peace  is  through  peace  education.  Peace  education 
needs to be accepted in all parts of the world and in all 
societies  and  countries  as  an  essential  element  in 
creating a culture of peace. 

In order to effectively meet the challenges posed 
by  the  ongoing  complexities  of  our  time,  the  young 
people of today deserve a radically different education 
that  does  not  glorify  war  but  educates  for  peace, 
non-violence and international cooperation. They need 
the  skills  and  knowledge  to  create  and  nurture  peace 
for  their  individual  selves  and  for  the  world  to  which 
they belong. 

We  should  never  forget  that  there  will  be  no 
peace  without  development  and  no  development 
without  peace.  It  is  also  crucial  to  remember  that 
sustainable  peace 
from  women’s 
equality.  The  General Assembly  has  further  urged  the 
appropriate  authorities 
to  provide  age-appropriate 
education.  When  women  are  marginalized,  there  is 
little  chance  for  an  open,  participatory  and  peaceful 
society. 

In  today’s  world,  the  culture  of  peace  should  be 
seen as the essence of a new humanity — a new global 
civilization based on inner oneness and outer diversity. 
Let us commence our debate on agenda item 15 in that 
spirit. 
Mr. Al  Rashed  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  My 

country  would 
the 
Secretary-General for all of his efforts in preparing the 
report  contained 
the 
activities  of  the  main  United  Nations  entities  in  the 
field 
and 
intercivilizational  dialogue. We  wish  to  also  thank  the 
United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural 
Organization  (UNESCO)  for  the  central  role  it  plays 
and for all its efforts to strengthen and consolidate the 
culture a peace, creating conducive to fostering such a 
culture  by 
and 
Programme of Action on a Culture of Peace (resolution 
53/243).  

The  preamble  to  the  United  Nations  Charter 
begins  with  “We  the  peoples  of  the  United  Nations”, 
which  means 
that  although  we  have  different 
in  document  A/66/280  on 
to  wholeheartedly 
the  Declaration 
implementing 
interreligious 
intercultural, 
thank 
like 
of 
11-55063 

23 

A/66/PV.34 

backgrounds, beliefs, civilizations and cultures, we all 
come together and join hands under the umbrella of the 
culture  of  humankind.  The  State  of  Kuwait  therefore 
places  tremendous  emphasis  on  the  importance  of 
promoting  a  culture  of  peace  and  promoting  dialogue 
among cultures, civilizations and faiths, particularly in 
the  current  conditions  of  intolerance,  extremism  and 
hatred  among  peoples,  human  rights  violations,  racial 
discrimination  and  disrespect  for  religions  and  their 
symbols.  

We  would  like  to  draw  attention  to  the  fact  that 
dialogue  or  alliance  among  civilizations  does  not 
require  us  to  dissolve  ourselves  into  one  religion, 
culture or civilization. In other words, we must all live 
according  to  the  same  set  of  principles  whereby  we 
seek  out  the  causes  of  our  differences  and  try  to 
address  them,  and  in  which  the  religious  and  cultural 
diversity  of  the  peoples  of  the  world  is  respected. We 
therefore  call  on  this  Organization  to  scale  up  all 
efforts  to  promote  a  culture  of  peace  and  dialogue 
among  civilizations  and  to  join  hands  in  combating 
intolerance,  extremism  and  violence  in  all  its  forms, 
and  in  fostering  mutual  respect  among  nations  and 
peoples.  This  is  a  responsibility  that  lies  with  all 
Member States and international organizations. 

Kuwait  strongly  emphasizes  the  importance  of 
supporting  this  Organization  in  promoting  the  lofty 
principles  enshrined  in  its  Charter.  I  would  like  to 
elaborate on the positive steps my country has taken to 
promote and encourage dialogue among civilizations.  

Kuwait  is  a  member  of  the  Group  of  Friends  of 
the  Alliance  of  Civilizations,  reflecting  its  conviction 
in  the  importance  of  dialogue  and  interaction  among 
civilizations and peoples. Kuwait has set up a national 
plan  for  2009-2011  consistent  with  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations  initiative.  The  objectives  of  the  plan  are 
to foster a culture of tolerance, peace and moderation; 
to  combat  terrorism,  intolerance  and  violence;  and  to 
raise awareness and interaction among various cultures 
and  peoples.  We  have 
launched  a  number  of 
programmes,  activities  and  plans  of  action  in  our 
various  ministries,  and  are  now  finalizing  the  third 
national plan, for 2011-2013. 

Kuwait has also set up an international centre for 
moderation that calls for moderation of opinions, ideas 
and  the  treatment  of  others  —  precepts  that  are  at  the 
heart of Islam. Peace had deep roots in the culture and 
history of Kuwait even before its inception as a modern 
State. Peace has given rise to tolerance, acceptance of 
others  and  increased  dialogue  with  all  other  cultures 
and  religions.  Our  modern  Constitution  guarantees 
respect  for  the  freedom  of  opinion,  expression  and 
religion, and the practice of religious rites in safety and 
freedom.  Although  small,  Kuwait  is  a  place  where 
many peoples come together. We are host to more than 
120  nationalities,  representing  religions  and  cultures 
from around the world and living together in security, 
stability, mutual respect and dignity. 

In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  emphasize  that 
enriching  and  fostering  a  culture  of  peace  is  at  the 
heart of respect for the lofty principles enshrined in our 
Charter,  such  as  respect  for  human  rights,  freedom  of 
opinion,  freedom  of  speech,  justice  under  the  law, 
equality, the elimination of poverty and unemployment, 
and  raising  awareness  of  the  culture  of  peace.  It  is 
impossible  for  a  people  deprived  of  its  basic  rights  to 
live  in  dignity  or  nourish  a  culture  of  peace  and 
tolerance.  On  that  basis,  my  country  calls  on  Member 
States  to  respect  and  implement  those  rights  so  that 
together  we  may  enjoy  a  world  of  amity,  peace  and 
tolerance.  
Mr.  Javadekar  (India):  I  am  deeply  honoured 

and privileged to participate in today’s joint debate on 
the  culture  of  peace,  and  grateful  for  the  Secretary-
intercultural, 
General’s  comprehensive 
interreligious 
dialogue 
(A/66/280). 

We  note  with  satisfaction  that  celebrating  the 
International  Year  for  the  Rapprochement  of  Cultures 
in  2010  and  the  International  Decade  for  a  Culture  of 
Peace and Non-violence for the Children of the World, 
2001-2010,  has  provided  a  unique  opportunity  for  the 
United  Nations  system  to  reaffirm  its  fundamental 
commitment  to  the  plurality  of  humanity,  in  which 
cultural  diversity  and 
intercultural  dialogue  are 
mutually  reinforcing.  I  think  this  is  exactly  what  the 
Indian ethos stands for. 

In  today’s  world  we  are  witnessing  the  rise  of 
extremism  and  intolerance,  outbreaks  of  sectarian 
violence  and  increasing  use  of  the  language  of  hatred 
and  violence.  These  pose  a  serious  challenge  to  the 
very  foundations  of  our  society.  Here  we  must  salute 
Mahatma  Gandhi  and  Martin  Luther  King,  Jr.,  who 
proved  the  power  of  non-violence. We  must  create  an 
environment conducive to fostering a dialogue between 
diverse  cultures,  races,  faiths  and  religions 
that 
intercivilizational 
report  on 
and 
24 

11-55063 
We  also  support 


inculcates values that promote the transition from force 
to reason, from conflict to dialogue and from violence 
to  peace.  Dialogue  among  different  cultures  and 
religions is also important, because it is precisely in the 
absence  of  such  a  dialogue  and  understanding  that 
intolerance, bigotry and violence flourish. 

It  is  heartening  to  note  that  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations,  which  includes  a  Group  of  Friends  with 
128  members,  has  now  become  one  of  the  premier 
platforms  for  intercultural  and  interreligious  dialogue 
within  and  between  diverse  societies.  We  therefore 
welcome the Doha Civil Society Pre-Forum. 

the  Department  of  Public 
Information  (DPI)  in  its  endeavour  to  strengthen  its 
voice  on  intercultural  dialogue  by  organizing  and 
covering  a  wide  range  of  events.  It  should  be 
mentioned  here  that  on  5  May  the  Indian  Permanent 
Mission to the United Nations associated itself with the 
DPI  and  the  Indian  Council  for  Cultural  Relations  in 
organizing  an  authors’  colloquium  on  unlearning 
intolerance at United Nations Headquarters. The Indian 
delegation  also  organized  a  function  to  mark  the 
International  Day  of  Non-Violence  at  the  United 
Nations  on  30  September,  at  which  the  Secretary-
General  was  the  chief  guest.  India’s  leading  historian, 
Mr. Ramachandra Guha, delivered the keynote address. 

India,  the  largest  democracy  in  the  world  and  a 
nation  of  unparalleled  diversity  with  a  population  of 
more  than  1.2  billion,  is  the  second  most  populous 
nation  in  the  world.  While  India,  of  course,  has  the 
largest  Hindu  population,  we  also  have  one  of  the 
world’s largest Muslim populations. And India is home 
to significant numbers of practitioners of almost every 
other  major  religious  denomination,  be  it  Christianity, 
Buddhism,  Sikhism, 
Jainism,  Zoroastrianism  or 
Bahaism.  India  is  the  birthplace  of  Jainism.  Gautama 
Buddha  gave  his  first  sermon  in  Sarnath,  an  eminent 
centre  of 
Indian  philosophy,  after  he  attained 
enlightenment in Bodh Gaya. 

All this happened because our kings offered land 
and  facilities  to  all  religions.  The  history  of  India,  in 
essence, 
is  a  narrative  of  conversations  between 
different civilizations and, indeed, a conversation with 
nature  itself.  India  is  home  to  scores  of  languages, 
hundreds  of  dialects  and  thousands  of  cuisines,  and  a 
medley of races, colours, landscapes and cultures. This 
assimilation  and  accommodation  of  diversity  have 
contributed  to  the  richness  of  our  composite  culture 
A/66/PV.34
the 
and 
respect 
We 
in  India  understand 
and the durability of our civilization. This we call unity 
in diversity. 

Our civilizational legacy treats nature as a source 
of  nurture,  and  high  value  is  placed  on  living  in 
harmony  with  nature.  The  Vedas  are  a  repository 
treating of the holistic development of the human being 
in full harmony with its surroundings. The continuous 
strand of vasudhaiva kutumbakam — which means “the 
whole  world  is  one  family”  —  has  been  a  constant 
guide for our interaction and exchange of thought with 
the  outside  world.  The  noble  principles  of  life  and 
spirituality,  including  non-violence,  have  influenced 
successive generations of people worldwide. 

importance  of 
building  alliances  between  religions,  cultures  and 
ethnic  groups,  and  we  have  always  supported  every 
effort  to  build  bridges  of  understanding  between 
nations,  peoples,  religions  and  cultures  around  the 
world.  It  is  our  considered  view  that  successful 
pluralism  must  be  grounded  in  the  basic  tenets  of 
mutual  understanding 
for  diverse 
traditions.  The  Indian  ethos  believes  in  the  tenet  of 
ekam  sad  vipra  bahudha  vadanti,  meaning  that  there 
are  many  ways  to  reach  God.  The  Indian  ethos  also 
treats believers and non-believers equally. This is also 
critical  to  the  harmonious  development  of  all  sections 
of  society,  including  the  encouragement  of  gender 
equity  and  the  empowerment  of  women  all  over  the 
world. 

The  only  way  to  achieve  this  goal  is  to  move 
conceptually towards a new dimension of dialogue and 
harmony  among  diverse  cultures,  races,  faiths  and 
religions so that all human beings can live in the sane 
and peaceful global society of our collective dreams. 
Mr.  Goraish  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Allow 

me to express my country’s appreciation for the efforts 
of  the  United  Nations  to  foster  a  culture  of  peace  and 
to introduce it onto the agenda. We would also like to 
thank the Secretary-General for his work in fostering a 
culture  of  peace,  dialogue  and  peaceful  coexistence 
among the peoples of the world. 

We  have  read  the  Secretary-General’s  report 
(A/66/280)  of  8  August  2011,  submitted  pursuant  to 
resolution 65/138, in which he provides an overview of 
the  activities  carried  out  by  the  main  United  Nations 
entities  in  the  field  of  dialogue  among  civilizations, 
cultures  and  religions.  He  also  takes  stock  of  the 
consultations among Members of the United Nations to 
11-55063 

25 
and 
65/11 
on 
resolution 
A/66/PV.34 

foster  dialogue  among  cultures  and  religions  and 
peaceful coexistence among nations. 

We  believe  that  we  have  to  devise  effective 
mechanisms  to  foster  the  culture  of  peace  in  all  its 
dimensions,  including  dialogue  among  cultures  and 
religions,  in  the  near  future.  I  take  this  opportunity  to 
highlight our commitment to the various resolutions of 
the General Assembly, particularly resolution 53/243 of 
13 September 1999 on the Declaration and Programme 
of  Action  on  a  Culture  of  Peace;  resolution  52/15, 
proclaiming 2000 the International Year for the Culture 
of  Peace;  resolution  53/25  of  10  November  1998, 
proclaiming  the  International  Decade  for  a  Culture  of 
Peace and Non-Violence for the Children of the World 
(2001-2010); 
the 
implementation  of  the  Declaration  and  Programme  of 
Action on a Culture of Peace. 

My country has also expressed its support for all 
other  initiatives,  including  the  Interfaith  Dialogue  and 
Cooperation  for  Peace  and  Development  held  by  the 
Heads  of  State  and  Government  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement  in  Manila  in  March  2010.  My  country  has 
made additional efforts in that regard alongside Egypt, 
Pakistan, Indonesia, Morocco, Iran, Qatar and Senegal. 
In  that  connection,  I  would  like  also  to  highlight  the 
importance  of  the  high-level  meeting  on  interfaith 
dialogue  that  was  held  in  November  2008  under  the 
auspices  of  King Abdullah  Bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud  of 
Saudi  Arabia  within  the  framework  of  his  efforts, 
ranging  from  Mecca 
to  advance  all 
initiatives aimed at achieving today’s goals. 

The Sudan has been at the forefront of countries 
calling for the promotion of a culture of peace among 
religions  and  cultures,  given  its  status  as  one  of  the 
founding  States  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and 
based  on  our  conviction  of 
importance  of 
promoting  dialogue  among  beliefs,  religions  and 
cultures  as  a  way  to  achieve  the  goals  of  peace  and 
development.  That  ideal  is  also  enshrined  in  the 
Constitution of the Sudan. 
As  regards  our  national  efforts,  our  country  has 

taken  all  possible 
to  advance  peaceful 
coexistence  and  the  culture  of  peace.  UNICEF,  in 
cooperation  with 
the  United  Nations  Children’s 
Emergency  Fund  and  the  Sudanese  Ministry  of Youth 
and Sports and National Council for the Respect of the 
Rights  of  Children,  organized 
a  meeting  on 
24 September  on  the  theme  “We  Will  Come  Together 
to  Madrid, 
steps 

to  Foster 
the  Culture  of  Peace”.  The  meeting 
highlighted the right of children to self-expression and 
participation  in  deepening  the  values  of  amity  and 
brotherhood  among  the  young  people  of  the  Sudan. A 
number  of  organizations  participated  in  that  event, 
which  called  for  the  promotion  of  peace  among 
cultures. We celebrate that occasion every year. 

Our  country  has  also  allocated  more  time  to 
programmes  fostering  the  culture  of  peace  on  our 
national radio and television stations and other media, 
with the aim of raising awareness of the importance of 
promoting the culture of peace. 

Today,  the  international  community  is  facing 
growing challenges related to the economy and climate 
change. The  developing  countries are  working  hard to 
implement  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  to 
advance  the  interlinked  culture  of  peace  between 
developed and developing nations, because the culture 
of  peace  cannot  be  separated  from  other  development 
challenges.  We  must  unite  to  foster  the  culture  of 
peace. 

In conclusion, I would like to inform the General 
Assembly that my country will continue to make every 
effort to live up to the lofty principles enshrined in our 
Charter  based  on  fostering  dialogue  among  cultures 
and  religions  and  on  enhancing  peaceful  coexistence 
instead of violence and confrontation. We should avoid 
alienating  and  marginalizing  some  countries  at  the 
expense of serving the narrow agendas of others.  

We  must  bear  in  mind  that  people  have  come  to 
see  that  they  have  been  created  equal  and  as  different 
tribes, ethnicities and colours. They must live together 
in  harmony  and  reach  out  to  each  other  in  order  to 
serve  the  interests  of  peace  and  the  lofty  goals  and 
principles of religions. 
Mr. Srivali (Thailand): Thailand takes note of the 

commendable efforts of Member States and the United 
Nations system in promoting dialogue among cultures, 
civilizations  and  religions  towards  a  culture  of  peace 
and  implementing  the  Declaration  and  Programme  of 
Action on a Culture of Peace, as reflected in the reports 
of  the  Secretary-General  (A/66/280)  and  the  Director-
General of UNESCO (A/66/273). 

As an original member of the Group of Friends of 
the Alliance of Civilization, Thailand looks forward to 
participating in the Alliance’s next annual forum, to be 
held in Doha in December, and welcomes the emphasis 
11-55063 
the 
26 



placed on creating synergies between the objectives of 
the  Alliance  of  Civilizations  and  the  advancement  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  at  the  upcoming 
meeting. 

Thailand  would  like  to  share  our  views  on  this 
issue.  First,  Thailand  encourages  the  use  of  new 
communications technologies and social media, as well 
as  formal  and  non-formal  education, 
to  promote 
dialogue  among  cultures,  civilizations  and  religions. 
Such  regularized  sharing  of  experiences,  not  just  of 
knowledge,  based  on  mutual  respect  and  appreciation 
of  diversity,  can  make  an  important  contribution  to 
world peace. 
Secondly,  we  concur  with  the  report  of  the 

Secretary-General,  which  stresses 
the  basic 
prerequisites  for  effective  dialogue  include  equality, 
justice, poverty reduction and respect for human rights. 
Thailand  supports  the  efforts  of  Member  States  in 
ensuring  that  these  fundamental  conditions  are  met, 
with  the  support  of  the  United  Nations  and  regional 
organizations. Peace must be built from within. That is 
why national ownership is so important. 
Thirdly, Thailand is of the view that peace cannot 

be taken for granted even in the best of times. Rather, it 
requires continual effort to maintain and strengthen. In 
order  to  make  peace  sustainable,  a  culture  of  peace 
must  be  cultivated  at  all  levels,  especially  among  

that 
A/66/PV.34
regional 
Fifthly,  Thailand 
remains 
committed 
and 
as  other 
young  people.  A11  groups  and  sectors  of  society  can 
and  should  play  a  part  in  promoting  dialogue  among 
cultures,  civilizations  and  religions, including women, 
the media, civil society and the private sector. 

Fourthly,  Thailand  fully  supports  the  efforts  of 
the  United  Nations,  especially  the  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  missions 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission, 
as  well 
and 
international  actors  in  pursuit  of  sustainable  peace.  In 
taking  the  lead  in  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding 
efforts  around  the  world,  the  United  Nations  system 
must  be  well-coordinated  and  take  a  forward-looking, 
long-term view in carrying out its work. 

to 
promoting  dialogue  among  cultures,  civilizations  and 
religions at home. At the subregional level, cultural and 
religious  dialogue  is  ongoing  through  exchanges  of 
visits, workshops and seminars at all levels, including 
among religious figures, academics and representatives 
of 
level, 
Government  agencies  have  developed  a  national 
strategy  on  interfaith  dialogue  as  a  guideline  for 
promoting  Thailand’s  participation  in  regional  and 
international 
cooperation 
frameworks  and 
implementation  of  relevant 
activities. 

Thailand reaffirms its commitment to the culture 
of  peace  and  will  closely  follow  initiatives  and 
activities on this issue.  

the  media  and  youth.  At 
  The meeting rose at 1 p.m. 
the  national 
interfaith 
their 
dialogue 
11-55063 

27 
