
A/66/PV.5
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

5th plenary meeting 
Monday, 19 September 2011, 6 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 
a 
policy, 
creating 
agencies  —  especially  the  World  Health  Organization 
and  its  South-East  Asia  Regional  Office  and  Country 
Office  for  Sri  Lanka,  and  the  World  Bank  —  and  the 
Japan  International  Cooperation  Agency  for 
their 
advice,  support  and  cooperation  in  controlling  these 
diseases. 

We  have  committed  ourselves  to  prevent  and 
control  non-communicable  diseases  by  formulating  a 
national  NCD 
separate 
Non-communicable  Disease  Control  Unit  within  the 
Ministry  of  Health  and  appointing  qualified  NCD 
medical  officers  for  each  district.  The  Sri  Lankan 
Government  has  allocated  sufficient  annual  grants 
specifically to control non-communicable diseases. 

I  take  this  opportunity  to  request  the  General 
Assembly  to  establish  a  global  fund  to  prevent  and 
control  non-communicable  diseases.  I  consider  the 
United  Nations  to  be  the  apex  body  that  can  provide 
support  to  prevent  and  control  non-communicable 
diseases  in  Sri  Lanka.  I  also  take  this  opportunity  to 
thank  the  international  community  for  assisting  to 
rebuild Sri Lanka. We need that continued support. 

With  the  political  commitment  and  the  priority 
given to NCD prevention and control, we are confident 
that  Sri  Lanka  can  be  a  lead  country  in  the  region  in 
implementing 
nationwide  NCD 
programme.  Our  policy  objective 
reduce 
premature mortality due to chronic NCDs by 2 per cent 
every year for the next ten years. 
effective 
an 
to 
is 







  In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Zinsou 
(Benin), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 6.25 p.m. 



High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the 
Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases 
Agenda item 117 (continued)
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Maithripala 
Sirisena, Minister for Health of Sri Lanka. 
Mr. Sirisena (Sri Lanka): I consider it an honour 

and  a  privilege  to  address  this  gathering  on  dealing 
with  the  prevention  and  control  of  non-communicable 
diseases (NCDs).  

At  present,  Sri  Lanka  is  in  the  process  of  rapid 
development  in  all  fields.  Four  decades  ago,  our 
average life expectancy was about 40 years. Today, that 
has  been  almost  doubled.  This 
to  our 
achievements in maternal and child health services and 
the prevention and control of communicable diseases. 

We  have  a  major  challenge  before  us  now:  the 
rise of non-communicable diseases, some of which are 
reaching  epidemic  proportions.  More  than  60  per  cent 
of deaths are due to non-communicable diseases. Many 
Sri  Lankans  die  prematurely  from  heart  diseases, 
diabetes, hypertension and strokes. 

I  would  like  to  express  my  appreciation  for  the 
services  rendered  by  the  United  Nations  specialized 

is  due 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-50356 (E) 
*1150356* 




A/66/PV.5 

The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr. Arturo  Bendaña, 
Minister for Health of Honduras. 
Mr.  Bendaña  (Honduras)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

am happy to extend warmest greetings to the Assembly 
on  behalf  of  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of 
Honduras,  led  by  President  Porfirio  Lobo  Sosa,  at 
today’s meeting on a subject of the utmost importance.  

My  country  has  followed  this  process  from  the 
outset,  conscious  of  and  steadfast  in  our  commitment 
to  support,  together  with  all  Member  States,  the 
proposals  contained  in  the  Declaration  of  this  High-
level Meeting (resolution 66/2, annex), including, inter 
alia,  health,  education  and  welfare.  But  above  all,  it 
enables  us  to  fight  the  epidemic  of  overweight  and 
obesity. 

Statistics  show  that  the  current  chief  causes  of 
death  worldwide  are  chronic  diseases,  among  them 
myocardial  infarction,  stroke,  diabetes  and  chronic 
obstructive  lung  disease.  In  Honduras  in  particular, 
47 per  cent  of  women  are  overweight  or  obese. 
National studies conducted in 2010 concerning death in 
women of reproductive age show that the main causes 
are external injuries and cancer. Another public health 
problem is chronic kidney disease, which is increasing 
every  year,  principally  due 
and 
hypertension. Our institution is therefore in the process 
of setting up a histocompatibility testing laboratory. 

Similarly,  we  have  made  necessary  changes  in 
our  organizational  structures,  establishing  strategic 
alliances designed to tackle the prevention and control 
of  risk  factors  such  as  overweight,  obesity,  alcohol 
abuse and tobacco use. Among other efforts, Congress 
has  enacted  and  we  have  implemented  a  national  law 
on  tobacco  use.  Since  the  act’s  adoption,  in  Honduras 
smoking  in  any  enclosed  space,  including  bars  and 
discothèques, has been banned. Tobacco advertising is 
prohibited and health warning labels on packaging are 
compulsory.  We  are  also  working  hard  to  ensure  that 
the law is observed nationwide. 

At present, we are formulating national standards 
for  controlling  and  preventing  chronic  non-communicable 
diseases  (NCDs),  using  as  a  framework  the  four 
diseases  and  four  risk  factors  cited  in  the  Ministerial 
Declaration  following  the  high-level  consultation  on 
obesity held in Mexico City in February. However, we 
have  also  established  national  standards  for  maternal 
and  neonatal  care,  which  require  body-mass  index 
to  diabetes 
2 

records  as  well  as  testing  for  hypertension,  diabetes, 
cardiopathy and anaemia.  

The epidemiological burden and estimated direct 
costs  that  such  pathologies  represent  impose  a  high 
strain  on  the  health  system  of  the  region  in  terms  of 
specialized  care,  hospitalization,  medicines,  medical 
supplies  and  equipment,  disabilities  and  premature 
death.  We  should  also  remember  that  such  burdens 
continue to raise costs for households and thus in turn 
result in greater poverty.  
For  Governments,  implementing  prevention  is  a 

challenge and halting the epidemic will not be easy. We 
will  have  to  overcome  obstacles  and  rely  on  the 
support  of  the  industrial  and  business  sectors.  We 
recognize this problem at the regional level, addressing 
it  across  the  board  through  the  Council  of  Central 
American  Ministers  of  Health  and 
the  Central 
American  and  Dominican  Republic  Health  Sector 
Summit, with the support of the Technical Commission 
for  Chronic  Non-communicable  Diseases  and  Cancer, 
based on the Declaration of Mexico and Guatemala. 

Since participating in the Mexico summit, I have 
requested  the  support  of  my  country’s  President  and 
First  Lady  in  dealing  with  this  issue  through  every 
Government  department.  Adopting 
the  Political 
Declaration  (resolution  66/2,  annex)  adopted  at  this 
meeting will prepare present and future generations to 
adopt healthy lifestyles and behaviour.  

that  non-communicable 
diseases  and  their  risk  factors  are  closely  linked  to 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
such  as  eradicating  extreme  poverty  and  hunger; 
reducing  child  and  maternal  mortality;  combating 
HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis and other serious 
diseases; and promoting international cooperation. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Slaheddine 
Sellami, Minister for Health of Tunisia. 
Mr.  Sellami  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Allow 

me to begin by offering my appreciation and gratitude 
to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, who has spared no 
effort in organizing this meeting, which gives concrete 
form  to  international  hopes  to  establish  an  effective 
strategy  for  combating  non-communicable  diseases 
(NCDs). 
I  would  also  like  to  proudly  emphasize  the  fact 

that this meeting is being held at the same time as we 
We  must  not  forget 
11-50356 
transitional 
times.  The 


are  witnessing  the  Arab  Spring,  which  has  helped  to 
promote  solidarity  among  the  peoples  of  the  world  in 
their  determination  to  apply  all  their  potential  to 
improving  the  prosperity  and  dignity  of  humankind. 
Tunisia  reaffirms  the  importance  of  the  resolutions 
adopted  by  various  sessions  of  the  General Assembly 
and the World Health Organization (WHO), as well as 
the 2008-2013 Action Plan for the Global Strategy for 
the  Prevention  and  Control  of  Non-communicable 
Diseases.  Tunisia  fully  endorses  that  document  and  is 
committed  to  working  for  its  implementation  at  the 
national level.  

In addition, Tunisia is aware of the importance of 
the  lofty  objectives  of  this  meeting  and  calls  for 
affirming  people’s  right  to  health  at  all  political  and 
institutional  levels.  In  order  to  achieve  this,  we  must 
work  transparently  to  meet  our  peoples’  social  and 
economic  needs,  particularly  where  health 
is 
concerned. 

In Tunisia as in many other brotherly and friendly 
countries,  we  are  going  through  very  heady  but 
promising 
international 
community  should  not  just  stand  by  and  watch,  but 
should  support  us  through  the  speedy  implementation 
of  short-  and  long-term  programmes  and  measures  to 
help us realize the aspirations of our peoples.  

In  our  country  as  in  others  around  the  world, 
NCDs  are  a  widespread  health  problem.  Numerous 
studies  have  shown  that  they  are  proliferating  rapidly, 
as  are  the  concomitant  dangers. Tunisia  welcomes  the 
convening of this meeting and the establishment of an 
integrated and coordinated plan to prevent and control 
NCDS. 

We stress the need for prevention and monitoring, 
which  make  it  possible  at  least  to  delay  the  onset  of 
NCDs  and  their  symptoms  by  changing  eating  habits 
and  lifestyles.  I  would  also  like  to  emphasize  that 
Tunisia  has  adopted  and  implemented  the  WHO’s 
recommendations  in  this  regard,  including  in  its  food 
and sport strategies  and  campaigns against cancer  and 
diabetes.  We  have  thus  acquired  a  great  deal  of 
experience  that  we  are  happy  to  share  with  brotherly 
and friendly countries.  
The  establishment  of  a  multilateral  network  for 

preventing  and  controlling  NCDs 
is  extremely 
important,  and  we  are  investigating  how  best  to 
promote 
through  Government 
organizations  and  civil  society.  Containing  this  major 
such  a  network 
A/66/PV.5
and 
evaluation  of 
the  Department  of  Health  of 
tobacco  consumption,  poor  nutrition, 
problem  calls  for  mobilizing  human  and  material 
resources within the health-care system, particularly in 
terms  of  medications 
the 
socio-economic impact of NCDs, while simultaneously 
working  towards  early  prevention  of  such  risk  factors 
as 
lack  of 
physical  activity  and  unhealthy 
lifestyles  among 
children. 

Tunisia  takes  this  opportunity  to  appeal  to  all 
developed countries and donors to take steps and adopt 
mechanisms that will allow us to respond to the needs 
created  by  the  current  political  social  and  economic 
changes  and  to  achieve  comprehensive  sustainable 
development. 

In  conclusion,  I  wish  this  meeting  every  success 
and welcome the adoption of the Political Declaration 
(resolution 66/2). 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Enrique  Ona, 
Secretary  of 
the 
Philippines. 
Mr.  Ona  (Philippines):  In  recent  years,  the 

Philippines  has  noted 
the  global  emergence  of 
non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs)  as  a  major  threat 
to  public  health  alongside  the  unresolved  issue  of 
infectious diseases. 

The  health  profile  of  our  country  has  changed 
considerably,  given  the  increase  in  life  expectancy, 
rapid  urbanization  and  lifestyle  trends.  Current  data 
shows  that  the  leading  causes  of  morbidity  and 
mortality  are  communicable  and  non-communicable 
diseases.  Among  the  10  leading  causes  of  mortality, 
seven are non-communicable diseases, such as diseases 
of the heart, diseases of the vascular system, malignant 
neoplasm,  accidents,  diabetes  mellitus  and  renal 
disease.  As 
leading  causes  of  morbidity, 
hypertension  is  fourth  and  diseases  of  the  heart 
seventh.  

The  chronic  care  and  lifelong  treatment,  as  well 
as  the  catastrophic  costs  associated  with  interventions 
for  acute  attacks  and  complications,  have  become  a 
source  of  great  economic  burden  and  inequity  among 
our  population.  We  likewise  recognize  that  injuries, 
accidents  and  mental  health  disorders  are  additional 
burdens  that  require  parallel  attention.  We  note  that 
non-communicable diseases have also been specifically 
linked  to  risk  factors  such  as  tobacco  use,  unhealthy 
to 
the 
11-50356 

3 
for 
including  packages 
Financial  risk  protection 
rapid  expansion  of 
A/66/PV.5 

diet  and  physical  inactivity,  among  others.  These  risk 
factors can all be modified, thus making these diseases 
and the resulting premature deaths highly preventable. 

The Philippines is  fully  committed to addressing 
the 
lifestyle-related  non-communicable 
issues  of 
diseases.  The  country’s  health  reform  agenda  of 
universal  health  care  works  on  three  fronts  to  achieve 
financial  risk  protection  for  all,  improve  access  to 
quality  health  services,  and  focus  on  attaining  our 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  through  our 
MDGmax  campaign,  which  includes  non-communicable 
diseases. 
is  being 
increased 

through 
the  national  health 
insurance programme using national subsidies to enrol 
the  poor.  Benefit  delivery  is  being  improved  through 
case rate schemes that ensure zero co-payment for the 
poor for 22 of the most common medical and surgical 
procedures, 
radiotherapy, 
hysterectomy,  mastectomy,  thyroidectomy,  essential 
hypertension  and  cardiovascular  accidents.  Access  to 
quality  hospitals  and  health-care  facilities  is  being 
improved  through  the  upgrading  of  the  infrastructure 
and  equipment  of  all  our  health  facilities  throughout 
the country. 

The  Department  of  Health’s  complete  treatment 
packs for hypertension and diabetes are being provided 
at  the  lowest  cost,  so  as  to  give  the  poor  access  to  a 
month’s  complete  supply  of  their  maintenance  drugs. 
MDGmax  incorporates  a  focus  on  NCDs,  along  with 
the health-related MDGs. Community health teams are 
being  fielded  to  visit  all  families  in  the  country,  in 
particular those belonging to the two poorest quintiles 
of  our  population,  to  provide  key  health  services  and 
health messages, including those for a healthy lifestyle. 

Recently,  the  country  formulated  a  framework 
focusing on strengthening the prevention and control of 
lifestyle-related  non-communicable  diseases  anchored 
on  the  following  strategies:  adoption  of  an  integrated, 
comprehensive  and  community-based  response 
to 
combat  chronic  lifestyle  NCDs;  intensified  health 
promotion strategies and secondary prevention directed 
at the reduction of risk factors to prevent morbidity and 
mortality;  and,  lastly,  a  multi-stakeholder  approach  to 
strengthening 
enabling 
environment for the adoption of a healthy lifestyle. 
The  country  strongly  supports  the  call  for  action 

to  strengthen  the  prevention  and  control  of  chronic 
to  provide 
systems 
an 

related 
legislation 
to  promote 
non-communicable 
the  regulation  of  food 
lifestyle 
diseases. 
Programmes  and  strategies  addressing  the  common 
modifiable  risk  factors  of  these  diseases,  such  as 
tobacco  use,  physical  inactivity,  unhealthy  diet,  stress 
and  alcohol  use,  have  been  instituted.  Smoke-free 
environments  are  promoted  through  such  activities  as 
the  annual  Red  Orchid  Award  to  local  Governments 
and  Government  offices.  Priority 
is 
restructuring the sin taxes to deter youth from smoking. 
Continuing  implementation  of  the  Clean  Air  Act  is 
being pursued. 

We need to take measures to foster production of 
food crops and products consistent with a healthy diet 
and 
through 
appropriate labelling standards. We need to expand our 
disease  registries  for  NCDs  and  establish  more 
extensive surveillance systems that capture all the data 
needed  to  track  and  manage  NCD  morbidity  and 
mortality, its risk factors, and the capacity of the health 
system to address NCDs. 

The  urgent  need  to  combat  this  growing  menace 
is  borne  out  by  data  and  experience.  The  key  ideas, 
targets,  indicators  and  strategies  to  bring  the  health 
sector  closer  to  the  outcomes  sought  regarding  NCDs 
have been established. This enormous task will engage 
our efforts in the long run and require reforms to build 
health  systems  that  can  tackle  the  peculiarities  of 
preventive  measures  and  chronic  care  that  NCDs 
require.  Information  across  teams  of  professionals 
tackling NCD co-morbidities, access to lifelong health 
services,  and  multisectoral  partnerships  for  health 
promotion  are  just  some  of  the  challenges  health 
systems  face  in  seeking  successful  outcomes.  Let  us 
commit ourselves to winning, and to starting now. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Charles  Sigoto, 
Minister  for  Health  and  Medical  Services  of  the 
Solomon Islands. 
Mr.  Sigoto  (Solomon  Islands):  I  thank  you,  Sir, 

for giving me the floor to make a statement at this very 
important  meeting.  The  prevalence  of  non-communicable 
diseases  (NCDs)  in  the  Pacific  has  reached  epidemic 
level,  claiming  six  out  of  10  lives.  The  huge  costs 
associated  with  NCDs  have  placed  great  stress  on  our 
limited  health  resources.  This  development  is  already 
undermining  Solomon  Islands’  social  and  economic 
development  and  creating  pockets  of  poverty  around 
the country. 
4 

11-50356 



Addressing NCDs calls for a national and global 
system-wide  approach.  Based  on  current  statistics, 
80 per  cent  of  NCD  deaths  occur  in  the  developing 
world. NCDs are thus regarded as a development issue 
as well. 

Solomon  Islands  is  located  in  a  disaster-prone 
region.  The  impact  of  climate  change  has  brought  an 
increased  frequency  of  droughts  and  floods,  sea-level 
rise and loss of biodiversity, triggering food and water 
insecurity. These disasters have pushed portions of our 
population  from  their  traditional  ancestral  lands  to 
urban  centres,  where  they  rely  ever  more  on  imported 
food.  These  populations  in  particular  become  more 
vulnerable to NCDs. 

For  Solomon  Islands,  time  is  of  the  essence. We 
are  one  generation  away  from  reaching  the  tipping 
point, when managing NCDs will become a challenge. 
Prevention  remains  the  cornerstone  of  our  policy.  We 
have  therefore  put  in  place  our  NCD  Strategic  Plan 
2011-2015. Like any other developing country, we will 
need  increased,  predicable  and  sustained  external 
resources.  In  the  short  to  medium  term,  official 
development  assistance  remains  the  lifeblood  of  our 
national programme. 

I  say  this  against  a  background  in  which  any 
NCD programme, to be successful, will need to include 
national  primary  health  coverage  for  a  population 
scattered  across  a  chain  of  more  than  900  islands 
stretching 1,800 km. This will need political, practical 
and financial investments. 
I  am  pleased  to  say  that  my  country  is  in  the 

midst  of  developing  a  new  strategy  of  moving  health 
resources and services to the rural areas, where 85 per 
cent of the population reside. There is currently a huge 
disparity  in  health  services  between  rural  and  urban 
populations in Solomon Islands, and we are working to 
correct  that. We  will  be  encouraging  partner  countries 
to  invest  more  in  the  health  services  in  the  informal 
sector.  

Work  has  already  started,  using  a  sector-wide 
approach with our development partners, including the 
Australian  Government  Overseas  Aid  Program,  the 
Japan  International  Cooperation  Agency,  Taiwan,  the 
Secretariat of the Pacific  Community, the World Bank 
and United Nations agencies such as the World Health 
Organization,  UNICEF  and 
the  United  Nations 
Population  Fund.  However,  much  more  needs  to  be 
done,  and  we  look  forward  to  a  collaborative  effort 
A/66/PV.5
including  diagnostic 
spearheaded  by  the  Ministry  of  Health  and  other 
central  agencies  and  line  ministries  in  an  integrated 
manner. 

Thirdly,  there  needs  to  be  a  global  effort  to 
guarantee  access  to  affordable,  safe  and  effective 
quality  medicine, 
services 
matched  with  skilled  manpower 
to  deliver  such 
services.  Too  often  NCD-affected  populations  are 
reluctant to get tested, as usually there is only limited 
treatment  available.  We  must  ensure  that  everyone 
receives  adequate  treatment,  since  we  have  sufficient 
finance and medication to turn things around. 

My  delegation  regrets  the  emphasis  on  market 
concepts  in  the  NCD  outcome  document  (resolution 
66/2, annex). For many people in developing countries 
this is a social justice issue — it is a human right that 
everyone  should  enjoy  the  highest  attainable  standard 
of physical and mental health, especially when many of 
us  have  narrow-base  economies  and  operate  on  the 
periphery of the international system. 

Managing  the  inherent  risks  of  NCDs  cannot 
succeed  as  a  standalone  policy  but  must  be  embedded 
within  a  multisectoral,  cost-effective,  population-wide 
intervention.  We  are  a  least-developed  country.  The 
Istanbul Programme of Action, once implemented, will 
call  for  simple  investment  in  smallholder  farmers, 
allowing  our  populations  to  shift  from  slash-and-burn 
techniques 
to  commercial  agriculture.  We  need 
technology  and  infrastructure  to  establish  food  banks 
and  phase  out  environmentally  unfriendly  and 
destructive economic operations such as logging. 
My  delegation  would  like  to  acknowledge  the 

Republic  of  China,  Taiwan, 
life-saving 
assistance  it  has  provided  to  my  country.  Taiwan  has 
not  only  constructed  our  national  referral  hospital  but 
continues 
teams  of  visiting  specialist 
doctors who perform life-saving surgery, especially for 
the  growing  number  of  the  people  who  have  fallen 
through the  cracks of NCD-prevention campaigns. We 
wish to acknowledge their Observer status at the World 
Health Assembly  over  the  last  there  years.  We  would 
like  to  see  a  similar  reception  accorded  to  Taiwan  in 
other  United  Nations  specialized  and  treaty  bodies, 
including the International Civil Aviation Organization 
and  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change. 
The recent Pacific Health Ministers’ meeting held 

in our capital, Honiara, concluded with a communiqué 
to  provide 
for 
the 
11-50356 

5 

A/66/PV.5 

declaring that NCDs are now an epidemic and a crisis 
in the Pacific. This was further endorsed by the Pacific 
Island  Forum  leaders  in  Auckland,  New  Zealand.  We 
therefore  look  forward  to  and  anticipate  a  positive 
outcome from these two days of meetings. There has to 
be  a  global  commitment  to  supporting  and  further 
strengthening the regional position and plans that have 
been  made  by  our  leaders  in  both  Honiara  and 
Auckland. 

Solomon  Islands  has  invested  in  South-South 
cooperation  to  combat  NCDs.  We  have  today  sent 
72 students to study medicine on this side of the world, 
and  we  are  hoping  to  send  an  additional  15  this  year. 
We  remain  grateful  to  the  Cuban  Government  for  its 
offer  of 
assistance.  Support  given  by  Cuba 
complements investment we have in students studying 
in Papua New Guinea and Fiji. We also are grateful to 
our two Pacific neighbours. 

Let me close by stating that there is a tendency to 
say  the  right  thing  in  such  high-level  meetings  but  to 
fail to walk the talk when we leave New York. We all 
know  what  needs  to  be  done,  but  we  continue  to  lack 
the political will to do the right thing. We pray this will 
not the case following this High-level Meeting. We can 
only  urge  everyone  here  that,  whatever  commitment 
made here, let us act on it with haste, as lives depend 
on it and are at stake. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Sambuu Lambaa, 
Minister for Health of Mongolia. 
Mr.  Lambaa  (Mongolia)  (spoke  in  Mongol; 

English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  of  the 
utmost  significance  that  the  General  Assembly  has 
decided  to  convene  a  High-level  Meeting  on  the 
Prevention 
and  Control  of  Non-communicable 
Diseases,  as  the  number  of  people  affected  by  such 
diseases  is  increasing  rapidly  due  to  urbanization  and 
lifestyle  factors  such  as  diet  and  nutrition,  physical 
activity, alcohol and tobacco use.  

the 
leading  causes  of  morbidity  and  mortality  among  the 
adult Mongolian population. Over the past 10 years in 
Mongolia,  as  in  other  countries  in  our  region,  heart 
disease  and  cancer  have  been  the  leading  causes  of 
death and represent the majority of adult deaths. 

I would like to take this opportunity to thank the 
United Nations for the ongoing technical and financial 
Non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs)  are 
training 
increased 
its  contribution 
international  best  practices 
support  provided  to  the  Government  of  Mongolia  by 
the  World  Health  Organization  for  the  prevention  and 
control of non-communicable diseases. This assistance 
has  served  to  advance  our  national  programme  and 
integrate 
for  disease 
prevention and control. 

In 2008, my Government entered into a compact 
with 
the  Millennium  Challenge  Account,  which 
included  $339.1  million  for  a  health  project  on  the 
prevention  and  control  of  NCDs  and  road  traffic 
injuries.  This  national  project  has  greatly  accelerated 
the  pace  of  introduction  of  internationally  recognized 
prevention,  early  detection  and  case  management 
services,  and  public  education  and 
for 
Mongolian professionals.  
The Government of Mongolia is proud that it has 

significantly 
to  public 
education on NCD risk factors through excise taxes on 
tobacco  and  alcohol.  These  taxes  have  generated 
resources for a health promotion fund to reduce rates of 
smoking  and  alcohol  abuse.  As  a  result  of  these  and 
other combined measures, the pace of deaths caused by 
the  most  common  non-communicable  diseases  has 
levelled  off  and  early  detection  of  these  diseases  has 
improved.  

Despite  these  achievements,  tobacco  use  —  one 
of  the  most  common  risk  factors  contributing  to 
NCDs —  is  rising  among  key  target  populations, 
including  mothers  and  youth.  This  has  serious 
implications  for  our  country  and  the  health  of  future 
generations.  In  addition,  alcohol  consumption  and 
substance  abuse  have  increased  among  youth  and  is 
now  a  major  factor  contributing  to  accidents,  road 
traffic  injuries,  crime,  violence  and  unemployment. 
Studies  have  shown 
is  also 
associated with poverty in Mongolia.  

From this rostrum, I would therefore like to take 
this opportunity to draw the attention of representatives 
attending  this  High-level  Meeting  to  the  following 
important  matters.  My  Government  stresses 
the 
importance 
an 
endorsing 
international  convention  on  alcohol  control,  similar  to 
the WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control, 
to  guide  the  combined  efforts  of  the  international 
community. My Government stands fully committed to 
cooperating on this initiative. 
reiterate 

Mongolia’s firm commitment to the Action Plan for the 
that  alcohol  abuse 
developing 
In  conclusion, 
I  would 
like 
to 
of 
and 
6 

11-50356 


Global  Strategy  for  the  Prevention  and  Control  of 
Non-communicable  Diseases  adopted  by  the  World 
Health Assembly,  and  to  assure  the Assembly  that  my 
Government  stands  fully  committed  to  adopting  and 
implementing the Political Declaration adopted by this 
High-level Meeting (resolution 66/2, annex). 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Onyebuchi 
Chukwu, Minister of Health of the Federal Republic of 
Nigeria. 
Mr.  Chukwu  (Nigeria):  I  will  read  out  a 

statement  by  Mr.  Goodluck  Ebele  Jonathan,  President 
of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. 

representatives 
other 
“I 



“We  all  know 
the  President  of 
in 

join 
the  General 
congratulating 
Assembly  on  convening  this  very 
important 
meeting  on  non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs). 
I  would  also  like  to  commend  the  Secretary-
General  for  his  detailed  report  (A/66/83).  This 
has  provided  insight  into  the  challenges  that  lie 
ahead  and  motivated  the  world  to  action.  I  am 
honoured  to  be  part  of  history  as  the  world 
tackles this matter of great concern to the global 
community, Africa and my own country, Nigeria. 

that  non-communicable 
diseases  are  a  spectrum  of  diseases,  usually 
chronic  in  nature,  typically  non-contagious  or 
non-infectious and causing long-term debilitation 
and  disability.  They  are  a  major  killer  and  are 
responsible for 60 per cent of global deaths, with 
82 per cent of this burden  occurring in low- and 
middle-income 
further 
compounded 
co-morbidity  with 
communicable  diseases,  and  together  they  pose 
serious  and  increasing  challenges  to  the  health 
systems in developing countries. 

“This  increasing  prevalence  is  threatening 
to  erode  all  the  gains  we  have  made  in  the  fight 
against communicable diseases. The major NCDs 
ravaging  our  populations  include  cardiovascular 
diseases,  diabetes  mellitus,  cancers,  chronic 
respiratory 
hemoglobulinopathies, 
especially  sickle  cell  disease,  mental  health 
disorders,  road  traffic  injuries,  violence,  with 
morbidity varying from country to country.  

“Among  the  known  hemoglobulinopathies, 
the one peculiar to us is sickle cell disease. More 
countries.  This 
diseases, 
their 
by 
is 
A/66/PV.5
“Today, 
8  million  Nigerians 
than 20 per cent of our population 15 years of age 
and  above  have  the  sickle  cell  trait.  Every  year, 
an estimated 150,000 babies are born with sickle 
cell disorder. One sure way of eliminating sickle 
cell  disease 
is  by  genetic  counselling  and 
screening.  However,  those  who  already  have  the 
disorder must be taken care of because they have 
the right to life, and we have taken the following 
steps.  

“At the national level, hospitals have sickle 
cell  units  and  a  national  sickle  cell  centre  was 
established in Lagos. Recently, having recognized 
the  challenge  that  sickle  cell  disorder  and  its 
attendant  stigma  poses  to  the  attainment  of 
Millennium Development Goals 3, 4, 5 and 6 and 
to  further  strengthen  what  we  are  doing,  the 
Government established four new special centres 
for  the  control  and  management  of  the  disease. 
We  have  plans  to  expand  this  and  to  include 
research  aimed  at  improving  the  lives  of  people 
affected by this and other NCDs. 

are 
hypertensive,  while  4.8  million  are  living  with 
diabetes  mellitus.  Each  year,  100,000  new  cases 
of cancer are diagnosed in Nigeria and the burden 
of  chronic  respiratory  diseases,  many  of  them 
tobacco-related, is similarly heavy.  

“I  am  happy  that  trauma  and  injuries  from 
road  traffic  accidents  have  been  included  in  the 
NCDs  agenda.  While  a  significant  proportion  of 
our  population  die  from  both  communicable  and 
non-communicable 
equally 
significant proportion who were healthy are being 
killed by road traffic accidents. Annually, 10,000 
Nigerians  die  from  road  traffic  accidents.  It  is 
therefore pleasing to note that the United Nations 
Decade  of  Action  for  Road  Safety  is  bringing 
attention 
the 
opportunity  of  the  declaration  to  address  all  the 
factors that contribute to road traffic accidents.  

“There is a need to pay greater attention to 
the  issue  of  mental  health.  This  aspect  of  health 
has  largely  been  neglected,  as  only  one-fifth  of 
those  affected  receive 
treatment.  The  world 
should support these efforts at this meeting. 
“Malnutrition has been identified as a factor 

the  NCDs.  Poor  nutrition  has 
for  most  of 
continued  to  remain  an  issue  in  Nigeria  and  the 
issue.  We  should  use 
diseases, 
this 
an 
to 





11-50356 

7 
A/66/PV.5 


from 
intake 
to  rise 
resulting 
is  expected 
rest of Africa, affecting children and adults alike. 
Worldwide  patronage  of  fast  food  and  refined 
food establishments has led to excessive intake of 
salt  and  refined  sugar.  Of  interest  is  the  high 
caloric 
these  sugars, 
promoting overweightness and obesity.  

“Women and children are considered to be a 
high-risk group in the development of nutritional 
disorders.  Micronutrient  deficiencies  during 
pregnancy  predispose  babies  to  the  development 
of  anaemia,  low  birth  weight  and  congenital 
malformations.  Childhood  malnutrition  has  an 
effect on the mental and physical development of 
children  later  in  life.  In  Nigeria,  we  are  dealing 
with  these  issues  through  a  deliberate  policy  of 
fortification  of  certain  foods,  such  as  salt,  with 
iodine and milk and bread with vitamins.  

“The consequences of NCDs are poor health 
and  serious  economic  loss.  For  instance,  heart 
disease,  stroke  and  diabetes  alone  cost  my 
country  an  estimated  $800  million  annually, 
which 
to  $7.6  billion 
cumulatively  by  2015.  This  is  an  unacceptable 
economic  loss.  It  is  my  hope  that  this  meeting 
will come out with global commitments that will 
strengthen  the  international  resolve  ultimately 
and drastically to reduce the burden of NCDs.  

“We  in  Nigeria  are  doing  our  best  to  meet 
the  challenge  that  non-communicable  diseases 
pose  to  our  health,  our  livelihood  and  our 
progress. 
and 
prioritizing  of  the  health  sector  through  the 
implementation  of  a  national  strategic  care 
is  a  critical  part  of  my 
development  plan 
Government’s 
agenda.  The 
national health plan is structured as a vehicle for 
action  at  all  levels  of  the  health-care  delivery 
system, 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  other 
national,  regional  and  international  health  goals 
and priorities.  

“NCDs  are  not  only  controllable  —  that  is 
the  good  news  —  but  they  are  also  preventable. 
So  Nigeria,  realizing  the  threat  of  NCDs,  has 
decided  to  take  major  steps  to  respond  to  this 
epidemic.  We  have  developed  a  national  policy 
on  NCDs.  We  have  also  banned  advertisements 
and  the  use  of  tobacco  products  in  public  places 
the  achievement  of 
transformation 
development 
including 
Indeed, 
the 
to 
take 
treaty 
“I  want 
this  opportunity 
“The  challenge  of  human  resources 
since 1990. Our federal capital, Abuja, has led the 
way  and  is  a  tobacco-free  city.  We  have  also 
signed and ratified the World Health Organization 
Framework 
(WHO)  Convention  on  Tobacco 
Control.  The  process  of  domestication  of  the 
the  National 
WHO 
is  ongoing,  and 
Assembly  has  recently  passed 
the  National 
Tobacco Control Bill. 

in 
health, including adequate funding, screening and 
the  provision  of  diagnosis  and 
treatment 
infrastructure for NCDs are all militating against 
the  process  of  achieving  appreciable  progress  in 
combating  NCDs.  The  global  community’s  fight 
against  NCDs  requires  considerable  effort  in 
tackling  major  non-communicable  diseases  in 
developing  countries,  which  bear  80  per  cent  of 
the burden.  

to 
acknowledge  the  contributions  of  our  partners, 
both  international  and  local,  in  the  areas  of  the 
prevention  and  control  of  NCDs  in  my  country, 
and  Africa  as  a  whole.  I  also  want  to  use  this 
forum  to  again  thank  the  Secretary-General  for 
convening  the  High-level  Meeting  on  AIDS  last 
June, whose purpose was to review progress with 
a  view  to  guiding  and  intensifying  the  global 
response to HIV/AIDS. That meeting provided us 
with  the  opportunity  to  renew  our  commitments 
and  promote  continued  political  will  and 
engagement 
in  a  comprehensive 
response  to  halt  and  reverse  the  HIV  epidemic 
and mitigate its impact.  

“Let me remind everyone here that the point 
that  we  are  making  is  that  we  must  not  take  our 
eyes  off  of  communicable  diseases  such  as 
HIV/AIDS  and  malaria.  The  gains  have  been 
tremendous  and  they  must  be  sustained.  I  want 
Member  States  to  consider  the  promotion  of 
health  and  life  and  the  control  of  NCDs  as  a 
global  developmental  objective.  I  also  want  to 
invite  Member  States, 
the  United 
Nations,  to  incorporate  combating  NCDs  as  an 
important 
Millennium 
Development Goal 6.  

“Finally, let me take this opportunity to call 
for  more  urgent  and  concerted  efforts  at  the 
global  level,  in  the  true  spirit  of  partnership,  to 
component 
lead  us 
through 
of 
to 
11-50356 








8 



A/66/PV.5
health 
requires 
ensuring 
for 
the 
in 
the  physical, 
therefore  opted 
scourge  of  non-communicable 
contain 
diseases.” 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sredoje  Nović, 
Minister for Civil Affairs of Bosnia and Herzegovina.  
Mr.  Nović  (Bosnia  and  Herzegovina)  (spoke  in 

Bosnian; English text provided by the delegation): It is 
my  great  pleasure  and  honour  to  address  the  General 
Assembly  on  behalf  of  the  Council  of  Ministers  of 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  and  my  country’s  health 
authorities  in  order  to  briefly  inform  members  about 
activities  undertaken  by  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  to 
prevent  and  control  non-communicable  diseases 
(NCDs). 
Health,  a  complex  process,  is  ever  changing  and 

is affected by numerous  external influences, including 
factors 
social  and  biological 
environments.  Health  care  is  not  a  matter  for  the 
individual alone, but for the wider community. Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina  has 
a 
multisectoral  approach  involving  organized  teamwork. 
basic 
Improving 
preconditions — 
protection, 
education,  food,  income,  a  stable  economic  system, 
sustainable  funding,  social  justice  and  equity.  That  is 
an  important  political  objective  of  every  country, 
including Bosnia and Herzegovina. 

The world population’s health — especially in the 
countries  of  Central  and  Eastern  Europe,  including 
Bosnia and Herzegovina — is undergoing a process of 
significant  transition.  The  health  transition  in  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina  has  been  driven  by  changes  in  the 
socio-political system and is reflected in the declining 
birth  rate,  the  increase  in  the  percentage  of  the 
population  aged  over  65,  the  overall  structure  of  the 
population,  an  increase  in  mortality  rates  and  changes 
in morbidity patterns. 

Non-communicable diseases are the leading cause 
of death in Bosnia and Herzegovina and other countries 
in South-East Europe. Showing concern for equity and 
addressing  the  social  determinants  of  non-communicable 
diseases  require  a  whole-of-society  response.  This  is 
closely  linked  to  efforts  to  integrate  health  in  all 
policies and public health efforts to promote health and 
prevent disease and promote individualized health care 
that combines prevention, control and management. 
concerning 
peace, 

Bosnia and Herzegovina expresses its gratitude to 
United  Nations  agencies  for  their  ongoing  efforts  to 
prioritize the fight against non-communicable diseases. 
Moreover,  as  the  country  chairing  the  South-Eastern 
Europe  Health  Network,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina 
expresses its appreciation to the United Nations and the 
World  Health  Organization  (WHO),  and  in  particular 
the  WHO  Regional  Office  for  Europe,  for  supporting 
the  implementation  of  various  South-Eastern  Europe 
Health Network activities. 

I would like to take this opportunity to inform the 
Assembly  that,  on  the  occasion  of  the  celebration  of 
the  Decade  of  Alliance  for  Public  Health  in  South-
Eastern Europe, the WHO Regional Office for Europe, 
the  Council  of  Europe, 
the  Council  of  Europe 
Development Bank, the Regional Cooperation Council 
and  the  South-Eastern  Europe  Health  Network,  in 
cooperation  with  health  authorities  in  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina,  will  organize  the  third  Health  Ministers 
Forum  on  the  theme  “Health  in  all  policies  in  South-
Eastern Europe: A shared goal and responsibility”, with 
the special participation of policymakers in South-East 
Europe  from  other  governmental  sectors  and  of  the 
Regional  Cooperation  Council  partners  in  South-East 
Europe.  The  Forum  will  be  held  in  Banja  Luka, 
Republika Srpska, Bosnia and Herzegovina, on 13 and 
14 October. 
The Forum is a milestone as a regional initiative 

within  a  larger  process  of  improving  health  in  South-
East  Europe  in  the  context  of  the  WHO  Regional 
Office for Europe strategy, the Stability Pact for South-
Eastern  Europe  and  the  future  integration  of  the 
countries  of  South-East  Europe  into  the  European 
Union.  The  Forum  is  a  part  of  a  joint  action  plan  of 
WHO  and  the  Council  of  Europe  for  the  countries  of 
South-East  Europe,  namely,  Albania,  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina,  Bulgaria,  Croatia, 
the  Republic  of 
Moldova, Montenegro, Romania, Serbia and the former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia. 
The  Forum,  which  marks  a  decade  of  concerted 

action  in  South-East  Europe,  will  focus  on  European 
efforts at achieving equity and accountability in health, 
in  line  with  major  European  resolutions,  charters  and 
declarations,  treaties,  frameworks  and  action  plans,  as 
well  as  the  new WHO  European  health  policy,  Health 
2020.  The  main  purpose  of  the  Forum  is  to  introduce 
the  values,  priority  areas  and  actions  of  Health  2020, 
including  a  health-in-all-policies  approach,  with  the 
and 
goal  of 
achieving  better  health, 
equity 
11-50356 

9 

to  support 
A/66/PV.5 

accountability. That will lead to a renewed subregional 
commitment to public health in the countries of South-
East  Europe,  which  will  sign  the  Banja  Luka  pledge. 
Two  background  documents  are  in  preparation,  on  the 
themes “Health in all policies in South-Eastern Europe” 
and  “Prevention  and  control  of  non-communicable 
diseases in South-Eastern Europe”. 

Bearing all of this in mind, as well as the fact that 
a  significant  increase  in  non-communicable  chronic 
diseases in the past few decades throughout the world, 
including in Bosnia and Herzegovina, poses one of the 
major health challenges to the overall global and social 
development  of  society,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina 
strongly  supports  the  synergy  among  existing  global 
health 
institutions.  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  will 
therefore work on establishing a collaborative network, 
in  close  cooperation  with  WHO  and  in  consultation 
with  other  international  organizations  in  the  field  of 
the  full  and  effective 
health,  so  as 
implementation  of 
international  conventions  and 
strategies  in  the  field  of  health.  We  will  also  work  to 
develop  and  coordinate  our  own  policies  in  order  to 
achieve the best possible results. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Narayan  Kaji 
Shrestha,  Deputy-Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Nepal. 
Mr.  Shrestha  (Nepal):  I  would  like  to  begin  by 

extending my sincere appreciation to the President for 
organizing  this  High-level  Meeting  on  the  Prevention 
and Control of Non-communicable Diseases. This is a 
historic  opportunity  for  world  leaders  to  express 
commitments  and  agree  on  concrete  actions  at  the 
global  level  in  the  fight  against  non-communicable 
diseases (NCDs). 

a  global 
problem,  and  Nepal  is  not  immune  to  them.  In  fact, 
Nepal  suffers  from 
these 
diseases —  communicable  and  non-communicable. 
Taking this issue as a priority, Nepal has already made 
significant progress in terms of assessing the situation 
of NCDs in Nepal and formulating policies to address 
them. Nepal’s national NCD risk factor survey of 2008 
showed  that  one  in  three  Nepali  adults  uses  tobacco 
and drinks alcohol on a regular basis, which is a matter 
of great concern. As in other countries, consumption of 
junk food and lack of physical exercise is increasing in 
Non-communicable  diseases 
the  double  burden  of 
are 
all 
these 
Considering 
factors,  Nepal 
the  urban  areas.  Environmental  pollution  also 
contributes to a high risk of NCDs in Nepal. 

is 
continuously working to improve the laws and policies 
on the control of NCDs. The Alcohol Control Act, the 
Tobacco Control and Regulation Act and the Food Act 
are  already  under 
implementation.  The  Tobacco 
Control and Regulation Act bans the sale of cigarettes 
to children under the age of 18 and to pregnant women, 
and  prohibits  smoking  in  public  places.  The  Nepal 
health  sector  programme  implementation  plan  for  the 
next five years also focuses on NCDs as an important 
component. 

We are also trying to set up a surveillance system 
for  NCDs  by  incorporating  NCD  data  in  health-
management information systems. We created a health 
tax  fund  in  1996  that  currently  generates  about 
$6 million;  it  is  used  to  support  the  prevention  and 
control  of  NCDs  and  for  treating  cancers.  As  we  all 
know,  cancer  treatment  is  expensive  and  beyond  the 
means  of  poor  people.  The  Government  of  Nepal  is 
providing  financial  support  of  up  to  50,000  rupees  to 
people below the poverty line for cancer treatment. We 
also  provide  free  cancer  treatment  to  children.  It  is 
difficult 
for  such  expensive 
treatments, and Nepal is exploring various options  for 
health-care financing and social health protection. 

Nepal  believes  that  interventions  targeted  at 
modifying  known  risk  factors  are  very  effective  and 
efficient in reducing the burden of NCDs. Cessation of 
smoking  or  alcohol  use  during  pregnancy  also  has  an 
immediate  positive  impact  on  foetal  outcome,  thus 
contributing to improved maternal and newborn health. 
Prevention of NCDs will minimize catastrophic health 
expenditures  at  the  household  level  and  will  also  lead 
to increased productivity. 

The  vicious  circle  of  NCDs  and  poverty  is  more 
evident  in  the  low-income  countries.  The  increased 
threat  of  NCDs  disproportionately  affects  the  least 
developed  countries,  constraining 
to 
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  This 
ultimately undermines global efforts to reduce poverty. 

The least developed countries are in urgent need 
of  the  development  of  national  capacities,  particularly 
in 
funding,  governance,  health 
information,  the  development  of  a  health  workforce 
and  its  retention,  medical  technologies  and  essential 
medicines,  as  outlined  in  the  Global  Strategy  for  the 
their  efforts 
to  sustain 
funding 
the 
areas  of 
10 

11-50356 
achieve 
towards 
donors, 
together 
progress 


Prevention 
and  Control  of  Non-communicable 
Diseases.  International  support  and  cooperation  in  the 
area of research and development should help promote 
easy  access  to  essential  medicines,  vaccines  and 
medical technologies. 
The  Government  of  Nepal  is  working  in  close 

partnership  with 
the  World  Health 
Organization  and  other  United  Nations  agencies, 
development  banks  and  national  and  international 
organizations through a sector-wide approach to health. 
That approach has proved very effective in enabling us 
to 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  especially  Goals  4  and  5.  This 
High-level  Meeting  has  brought 
all 
stakeholders, not just the ministries of health, in order 
to  create  a  common  understanding  of  the  problems 
surrounding  NCDs.  I  am  confident  that  working 
together,  we  will  be  able  to  address  the  challenges 
more  effectively.  It  is  time  for  us  to  scale  up  our 
support for the implementation of our common vision. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give 
the  floor 
to  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Annette 
Widmann-Mauz,  Parliamentary  State  Secretary  at  the 
Federal Ministry of Health of Germany. 
Ms.  Widmann-Mauz  (Germany):  It  is  a  great 

honour for me to address the General Assembly today 
at  this  historic  High-level  Meeting  on  non-communicable 
diseases (NCDs). NCDs are among the leading causes 
of both death and disability worldwide. Unless we take 
bold action within the next decade, NCDs will become 
the  most  common  cause  of  death  in  even  the  poorest 
countries of the world. 

The burden of disease creates not only individual 
suffering  but  also  an  economic  loss  that  threatens 
future  growth  and  prosperity.  Again,  this  is  likely  to 
affect  emerging  economies  the  most. We  are  therefore 
grateful  that  the  international  community  has  come 
together to express its will to intensify the fight against 
NCDs. 

We  already  know  a  great  deal  about  what  we 
should  do.  The  more  affluent  Member  States  have 
already  had  to  face  the  growing  challenges  resulting 
from  NCDs  over  the  past  decades.  For  many  years 
now, Germany has put a strong focus on the prevention 
and control of NCDs. We are convinced that the main 
that  context,  an 
focus has to be on prevention.  
integrated  approach 
that  focuses  on 
to 
population-based,  non-disease-specific  measures 
In 
is  required 
A/66/PV.5
for 
the 
into  advocacy 
make  it  easier  for  people  to  adopt  healthier  lifestyles. 
Crucially, every individual has to contribute.  

At  the  international  level,  Germany  has  actively 
supported  the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO)  and 
its lead on action against NCDs. The WHO, as all here 
are aware, has set out a strategic approach in the fight 
against  NCDs  and  has  already  developed  powerful 
instruments to reduce exposure to the main risk factors. 
These  include  the  WHO  Framework  Convention  on 
Tobacco  Control,  the  Global  Strategy  to  Reduce  the 
Harmful  Use  of  Alcohol  and  the  Global  Strategy  on 
Diet, Physical Activity and Health. Of course, we also 
have  the  WHO  Global  Strategy  and  an  agreed Action 
Plan on the prevention and control of NCDs. 

The  general  response  to  NCDs  includes  the 
establishment  of  binding  norms  to  involve  important 
actors. For example, efforts are under way to improve 
labour  conditions,  environmental  quality  and  human 
rights.  Germany  has  been  at  the  forefront  of  such 
efforts,  and  thus  was  well  placed  to  integrate  public 
health  awareness 
further 
promotion of such norms. 
Key  elements  of  this  policy  are  also  part  of 

Germany’s 
international  development  cooperation 
policy,  which  includes  a  focus  on  prevention  and  the 
underlying  social  determinants  of  health  and  which 
emphasizes  the  strengthening  of  health-care  systems 
and the establishment of social protection mechanisms. 
There is still a long way to go, and it will not be easy. 
But  I  am  convinced  that  with  intensified  international 
and intersectoral collaboration, we will be successful. 

Allow me to conclude by expressing my profound 
hope  that  the  adoption  of  the  Political  Declaration 
(resolution 66/2, annex) will trigger coordinated efforts 
globally, with a sustained impact on NCDs worldwide. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Rudyard Spencer, 
Minister of Health of Jamaica. 
Mr.  Spencer  (Jamaica):  This  unprecedented 

summit  obliges  all  of  us  to  focus  on  a  grave  and 
increasing  challenge  to  Jamaica,  the  Caribbean  region 
and  the  entire  global  community.  It  is  clear  that  the 
global  burden  and  attendant  threat  of  non-communicable 
diseases (NCDs) constitute one of the major challenges 
to development in the twenty-first century. As reported 
by  the  World  Health  Organization,  the  increase  in 
incidence  of  such  diseases  worldwide  suggests  that 
11-50356 

11 

the  negotiations 
A/66/PV.5 

they are now responsible for more deaths than all other 
causes  combined.  NCDs  are  the  world’s  number  one 
killer and devastate poor as well as rich countries alike. 
Therefore,  responding  to  NCDs  is  a  moral,  social  and 
economic imperative. 

It  is  therefore  fitting  that,  in  response  to  the 
leadership  of  the  States  members  of  the  Caribbean 
Community, global  attention  has  been  accorded  to  the 
rising  epidemic  of  NCDs  at  the  highest  level.  On 
behalf of my Government, I express our appreciation to 
all Member States for working together in the spirit of 
partnership and for making this vision a reality. 

As  a  Jamaican,  I  am  proud  to  congratulate 
Ambassador  Wolfe  of  Jamaica  who,  along  with 
Ambassador  Lucas  of  Luxembourg,  served  as  a 
co-facilitator  and  guided 
that 
culminated in the consensus document which we have 
adopted  (resolution  66/2,  annex).  I  also  take  the 
opportunity  to  express  appreciation  for  the  words  of 
commendation  conveyed  by  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  other  speakers 
to  both 
co-facilitators. 
As the first comprehensive statement by Heads of 

State  and  Government  at  the  global  level  of  their 
commitment 
the  Declaration 
provides a good platform for the ongoing consideration 
by the General Assembly of the development and other 
impacts  of  NCDs.  However,  we  are  disappointed  that 
the Declaration does not advocate more decisive action 
so  that  together  we  could  save  millions  of  the 
52 million  lives  projected  to  be  lost  by  2030.  Having 
recognized that there is  a  global threat  which must be 
addressed urgently, the Declaration fails to commit the 
international  community  to  ensuring  increased  and 
sustained resources to achieve this goal. 

Although  NCDs  are  a  global  challenge,  they 
strike  hardest  at  the  developing  world  and  lower-
income  populations.  Strong  evidence  links  poverty, 
lack of education and other determinants to NCDs and 
their risk factors. The epidemic creates a vicious cycle 
whereby  NCDs  and  their  risk  factors  worsen  poverty, 
while poverty results in rising rates of NCDs. There is 
also  a  clear  link  between  the  incidence  of  NCDs  and 
the  achievement  of 
the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. Clearly, addressing NCDs comprehensively will 
help  to  eliminate  poverty  and  create  a  more  equitable 
world. 
to  address  NCDs, 
to 
in 
Jamaica  commits 
of  multisectoral, 
to  eliminating  unhealthy 

Notwithstanding  our  disappointment  with  the 
shortcomings  of  the  Declaration,  we  have  achieved 
some  gains.  We  emphasize  the  need  to  scale  up  the 
implementation 
cost-effective, 
population-wide  interventions  in  order  to  reduce  the 
impact  of  the  common  NCD  risk  factors.  We  believe 
that  that  must  include  health  promotion  and  primary 
prevention  approaches,  galvanizing  actions  for  the 
prevention and control of NCDs, and integrating NCD 
policies  and  programmes 
into  health  planning 
processes as well as the development agenda. 

those  measures 
the 
Declaration aimed at saving lives in the short term and 
at  creating  a  healthy  society  which  will  assist  in 
preventing  NCDs  in  the  future.  These  include  the 
commitment 
industrial 
trans-fats  in  foods  and  the  acknowledgment  of  the 
importance of all measures to reduce the consumption 
of tobacco. Our Government will continue to strive to 
increase  access  to  affordable,  safe,  effective  and 
quality-assured  medicines  and  to  improve  access  to 
palliative and rehabilitative services, particularly at the 
community level. 

Issues  at  the  macro-level  which  must  occupy 
global  attention,  include  the  at-risk  youth  population, 
the potential for NCDs to increase poverty, the impact 
of  NCDs  on  productivity  and  by  extension  gross 
domestic  product  growth,  and  the  multiplicity  of 
complications  associated  with  NCDs  and  their  impact 
on health systems. Importantly, the challenge posed by 
NCDs necessitates the full use of the flexibilities of the 
Agreement on the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual 
Property Rights (TRIPS), in accordance with the Doha 
Declaration  on  the  TRIPS  Agreement  and  Public 
Health. The use of such flexibilities is central to efforts 
to  address  NCDs,  particularly  cancer.  NCDs  fall 
squarely within the context of the provisions of TRIPS 
and  Doha.  As  a  compromise  package 
the 
negotiations, 
this  relationship  was  not  expressed 
explicitly in the Declaration, but needs to be reaffirmed 
in clear and unequivocal terms. 
We  believe  that  this  High-level  Meeting  must 

result 
in  a  global  consensus  on  a  strengthened 
commitment  to  urgent  action  on  NCDs  and  attendant 
risk factors. We urge the General Assembly to continue 
to take an active role in the response of Member States 
to  this  epidemic. Victory  in  this  struggle  demands  the 
concerted  effort  of  each  and  every  member  of  the 
global community. To do nothing is not an option. 
in 
12 

11-50356 
to 
all 
achieving 


The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ihab  Fawzi, 
Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs of Egypt. 
Mr.  Fawzi  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Egypt 

attaches great importance to this High-level Meeting as 
a  first  step  by  the  General  Assembly  to  mobilize  the 
political support and efforts of the international community 
to  prevent  and  combat  the  spread  of  non-communicable 
diseases  (NCDs).  Egypt  aligns  itself  fully  with  the 
statement  delivered  by  the  Chairman  of  the  Group  of 
77 and China. 
The  spread  of  NCDs  represents  one  of  the  main 

challenges 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  by  2015.  During  the  past  few 
years, a number of Member States have taken concrete 
and  serious  national  steps  to  address  the  spread  of 
NCDs  at  the  national  level,  with  the  support  of  the 
international community.  
The global threat and spread of NCDs  constitute 

major  challenges  to  development  in  our  century, 
especially  as  cardiovascular  diseases,  cancer,  chronic 
respiratory  diseases  and  diabetes  are  responsible  for 
two-thirds  of  deaths  worldwide,  80  per  cent  of  which 
occur in developing countries.  

Alarming facts such as those necessitate a unified 
stand  and  effort  on  behalf  of  the  members  of  the 
international  community  towards  ensuring  that  the 
right of everyone to the highest attainable standards of 
mental  and  physical  health  are  realized.  This  ongoing 
challenge requires national ownership to deal with the 
issues 
a 
comprehensive,  equitable  and  nationally  owned 
framework  in  order  to  ensure  that  all  people  suffering 
from these diseases have access to effective prevention, 
treatment and care by the year 2030. 

This  endeavour  requires  special  attention  to 
strengthening the national capacities of Member States, 
developing countries, and especially African countries, 
taking into account the specificities of the communities 
and societies of each State and enhancing the abilities 
of  every  community  to  implement  national  awareness 
campaigns to address harmful and unhealthy lifestyles. 
That  will 
in 
international financial resources and assistance to help 
and  strengthen  national, 
institutional  and  human 
resource  capacities  and  the  provision  of  new  and 
affordable medicines and technologies. 
considerable 
effectively 
practically 
increase 
through 
require 
and 
a 
A/66/PV.5
a 
the 
The 
leading 
individuals, 
incomes  and 
individual  and  family 
in  developing  countries,  where 

Egypt believes in the importance of strengthening 
international  and  regional  capacities  to  combat  the 
spread of NCDs and to provide appropriate assistance, 
including in the form of sharing successful experiences 
and  lessons  learned,  in  collaboration  with  the  United 
Nations,  the  World  Health  Organization,  and  relevant 
international and regional bodies. 

international  community  has  a  special 
responsibility not only to work to provide the financial 
resources  needed  to  bridge  the  financing  gap  for 
implementing  NCDs-related  programmes,  but  also  to 
find  radical  solutions  to  the  problems  of  trade-related 
intellectual  property,  especially  as  regards  medicines, 
vaccines and diagnostics technologies. All of this must 
ensure  that  treatment  is  provided  at  affordable  prices, 
particularly 
the 
increased  burden  on 
families  and 
communities,  including  impoverishment  from  long-
term  treatment  and  care  costs,  results  in  loss  of 
productivity  at 
levels, 
threatening  household 
to 
productivity loss at the national level, making NCDs a 
contributing factor to the spread of poverty and hunger.  

These  efforts  should  be  complemented  by  an 
efficient  rationalization  of  assistance  directed  towards 
supporting  national, 
level 
interventions, and strengthening the  role of the  family 
and  civil  society  in  combating  the  spread  of  NCDs, 
especially as regards the tobacco, medical and food and 
beverages 
shared 
responsibility to contribute to the promotion of healthy 
lifestyles,  including  by  reducing  tobacco  consumption 
and promoting healthy and nutritional products. 

Furthermore, the international community has an 
obligation to eradicate the root causes of the spread of 
such  diseases,  including  by  addressing  the  negative 
consequences  of  climate  change,  pollution  and  the 
economic  and  social  challenges  that  increase  the 
vulnerability  of  populations  and  societies  to  these 
diseases, especially in developing countries. 

Today we emphasize our sincere determination to 
combat  the  spread  of  NCDs  and  affirm  our  firm 
political will and strong commitment to the principle of 
national  ownership  of  all  prevention,  treatment,  and 
care  programmes; 
international 
cooperation  and  assistance,  without  conditionality,  in 
order  to  maximize  our  benefits;  to  enhancing  our 
efforts to address the nationally identified determinants 
local  and  community 
industries,  which 
strengthening 
have 
to 
11-50356 

13 

to 
A/66/PV.5 

of  NCDs,  in  accordance  with  the  specificities  of  each 
Member  State  and  community,  so  as  to  realize  our 
common  goals  and  objectives; 
intensifying 
international  cooperation  through  a  comprehensive 
review and assessment of the progress achieved and the 
use of modern technology at affordable prices in order 
to  achieve  the  objectives  of  the  Political  Declaration 
(resolution  66/2,  annex);  to  stepping  up  international 
cooperation 
through  a  comprehensive  review  and 
assessment  in  2014  of  the  progress  achieved  in  the 
prevention and control of NCDs. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give 
to  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Thérèse 
the  floor 
N´Diri-Yoman,  Minister  for  Health  and  Fight Against 
HIV of Côte d’Ivoire. 
Ms.  N´Diri-Yoman  (Côte  d’Ivoire)  (spoke  in 

French):  It  is  an  honour  to  take  the  floor  during  this 
High-level  Meeting  on  non-communicable  diseases 
(NCDs)  before  this  Assembly.  On  behalf  of  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Côte  d’Ivoire,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Alassane  Ouattara,  I  would  like  to 
convey  to  all  international  entities  of  the  United 
Nations  system  the  gratitude  and  recognition  of  the 
people  and  Government  of  Côte  d’Ivoire  for  their 
commitment to settling the post-electoral crisis  and in 
the  process  of  re-establishing  the  peace  and  stability 
that are so crucial to economic development and social 
progress in our country. 

The  importance  of  the  subject  that  brings  us 
together  today  is  reflected  in  the  frightening  global 
statistics  on  NCDs.  Indeed,  according  to  the  World 
Health  Organization  (WHO),  11  years  after 
the 
adoption of the Global Strategy for the Prevention and 
Control of NCDs, 36 million people die each year from 
such afflictions. In developing countries, the picture is 
more  discouraging.  Ninety  per  cent  of  premature 
deaths are due to NCDs among people under 60 years 
of age.  

in  Côte  d’Ivoire,  which 
normally dedicates the bulk of its internal and external 
resources  to  combating  infectious  diseases,  has  been 
weakened  by  the  crisis.  Unfortunately,  this  post-crisis 
context has gone hand in hand with an increasing NCD 
burden.  According  to  the  cancer  register  of  Abdijan 
published  in  2000,  2,815  new  cases  of  cancer  were 
recorded  in  the  city  of  Abdijan  alone,  with  cancer 
among  women,  as  well  as  primary  liver  and  prostate 
cancers,  leading  the  list.  Among  children,  prevalency 
The  health  system 
rates were at 37.6 cases of cancer, with a predominance 
of lymphomas. Among metabolic diseases, in 2008 the 
prevalence of hypertension among adults over 25 years 
old  was  33.4  per  cent,  and  stood  at  6.2  per  cent  for 
diabetes.  For  the  same  year,  roughly  33  per  cent  of 
deaths in Côte d’Ivoire were due to NCDs, and 87 per 
cent of those cases affected people under 60 years old.  

In  Côte  d’Ivoire,  for  women,  59  per  cent  of 
deaths  are  due  to  maternal  or  perinatal  infection  and 
malnutrition.  There  has  been  a  spike  in  mental  health 
pathologies during the recent crisis, as well as asthma 
and  sickle-cell  anaemia,  for  which  an  increase  in 
doctor visits has also been registered. 

Given  this  genuine  problem  for  development, 
Côte d’Ivoire has increased its efforts by implementing 
national  programmes  to  address  specific  public  health 
concerns,  such  as  nutrition,  the  fight  against  tobacco 
and  alcohol  addiction,  and  the  effort  to  counter 
metabolic  diseases  such  as  hypertension,  diabetes  and 
obesity.  Those  programmes  are  intended  to  intensify 
prevention  and  improve  medical  care  for  these  grave 
chronic diseases so as to capitalize on prior gains, such 
as the prioritization of chronic NCDs as a public policy 
concern in the national health development programme 
for  2009-2013,  the  financial  commitment  of  the  State 
via  budget  allocations  to  preventing  and  combating 
NCDs,  the  monitoring  of  risk  factors  according  to  the 
STEPS approach of the WHO,  and tracking morbidity 
tied to diabetes and high blood pressure.  

focus  on  prevention  and 
promoting  health  among  the  general  public,  with  an 
emphasis on primary prevention and promoting healthy 
life  styles  and  low-risk  behaviours,  strengthening 
infrastructure  with  the  recent  opening  of  a  fourth 
kidney  dialysis  centre 
interior, 
subsidizing  anti-cancer  and 
therapy,  and 
treating  cardiovascular  diseases  whose  care  requires 
equipment. My country has also broadened its support 
structures beyond its traditional institutional partners to 
include, inter alia, non-governmental organizations, the 
West African  Health  Organization,  the African  Union, 
patient organizations and the private sector. 

Despite  the  difficult  economic  situation  of  Côte 
d’Ivoire,  on  16  April  the  President  of  the  Republic 
adopted an exceptional measure that waives the cost of 
all health services provided by public, semi-public and 
registered  community  establishments.  Those  services 
include  doctor  and  clinic  visits,  medications,  surgical 
Additional  goals 
the  country’s 
in 
insulin 
14 

11-50356 
for 
for 
that 
those  suffering 


procedures, hospitalizations, birthing services and free 
caesarean procedures.  

With  respect  to  non-communicable  diseases,  on 
11 August the Government of Côte d’Ivoire adopted a 
combined policy and action plan for 2011-2014 aimed 
at  the  prevention  and  treatment  of  NCDs,  based  on 
principles,  strategies  and  methods  to  promote  health. 
The  comprehensive  plan,  involving  all  activities  and 
ministerial  departments 
are  dealing  with 
non-communicable  diseases,  demonstrates  our  resolve 
to  move  forward  and  clearly  indicates  the  actions 
necessary over the next for years. 
With  respect  to  strengthening  prevention  measures, 

promoting  health  and  countering  non-communicable 
diseases,  the  Government  of  Côte  d’Ivoire  would  like 
to offer several proposals that could be extended to all. 
Those  include  support  for  the  implementation  of  the 
2011-2014  comprehensive  plan  for the  prevention  and 
control  of  non-communicable  diseases; 
the 
specialized  training  of  Ivorian  doctors  in  appropriate 
care  methods 
from  chronic 
non-communicable  diseases;  for  the  creation  of  a 
radiotherapy  unit;  support  for  the  combat  against 
non-communicable  diseases 
low-  and  middle-
income  countries  via  a  trust  fund  funded  essentially 
through standard taxation of the production and sale of 
tobacco and alcohol. 

In conclusion, Côte d’Ivoire reiterates its heartfelt 
gratitude  for  the  unfailing  support  of  the  General 
Assembly  in  improving  the  country’s  health  system. 
We  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  convening  this 
historic meeting. Côte d’Ivoire takes the opportunity to 
again commend the remarkable international solidarity 
of  this  meeting,  because,  as  Mother  Teresa  said,  the 
greatest  suffering 
to  feel  alone,  unloved  and 
abandoned by all. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Basile  Ikouebe, 
Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs  and  Cooperation  of  the 
Congo. 
Mr.  Ikouebe  (Congo)  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Republic  of  the  Congo  is  pleased  to  participate  in  the 
High-level  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
Prevention 
and  Control  of  Non-communicable 
Diseases. We see the emergence of non-communicable 
diseases  as  an  additional  burden  to  be  added  to  the 
scourge of communicable and tropical diseases that go 
unnoticed,  as  well  as  those  addressed  by  Millennium 
in 
is 
A/66/PV.5
Development Goals 4, 5 and 6. Indeed, the epidemiological 
data has revealed the increasing role of non-communicable 
diseases in the morbidity and mortality of adults.  

This  is  also  true  of  hypertension,  which  in  the 
Congo  stands  at  32.5  per  cent.  Given  its  related 
complications,  this  disease  has  become  the  first  cause 
of  death  among  adults,  in  particular  by  resulting  in 
stroke.  Two  out  of  three  Congolese  over  55  years  of 
age  suffer  from  that  disease.  It  is  distinguished  by  its 
early  appearance,  affecting  20  per  cent  of  adults 
between  25  and  34  years  of  age.  The  national  rate  of 
diabetes  is  7  per  cent,  representing  a  silent  epidemic 
given the lack of systematic screening. 

Since  2009,  however,  the  Government  has  been 
carrying  out  a  strategy  of  minimum  care  packages  in 
all primary health care centres and all  health districts. 
Thus,  at  the  operational  level,  the  Government  is 
improving delivery and access to care for patients with 
diabetes and the training of health professionals in this 
sector,  with  more  efficient  mobilization  of  logistical 
resources  and  improved  health  education  on  diabetes 
and other risk factors related to stroke. 
With respect to sickle-cell anaemia, which is very 

common  in  the  Congo,  the  heterozygote  form  has  a 
25 per cent prevalence rate. It is important to welcome 
here  the  commitment  of  the  first  ladies  of  Africa, 
whose  high-level  mobilization  efforts  have  made  this 
blood  disease  a  medical  priority.  Also,  based  on  the 
Congo’s  initiative,  the  General  Assembly  declared 
19 June  of  each  year  World  Sickle-Cell  Anaemia 
Awareness Day. 

The  cancer  registry  in  Brazzaville  records  on 
average  90  new  cases  each  year.  The  most  frequent 
cancers  are  those  of  the  prostate,  breast,  liver  and 
cervix.  The  burden  of  morbidity  and  mortality 
attributed  to  those  diseases  is  growing  year  by  year, 
and the Congo is making it a priority of its new health 
sector  development  plan  for  2012-2016.  Our  strategic 
plan  and  integrated  policy  to  counter  non-communicable 
diseases  are  being  drafted  and  will  be  finalized  based 
on  the  guidelines  of  the  World  Health  Organization 
(WHO). 
the 

prevention  and  control  of  non-communicable  diseases 
held  in  Brazzaville  from  4  to  6  April,  the  African 
Ministers 
the  Brazzaville 
Declaration,  which  outlines  the  shared  position  of  the 
States members of the WHO African Region. 
consultation  on 
of  Health 
regional 
adopted 
During 
the 
11-50356 

15 

practitioners, 
administrators 
A/66/PV.5 


For the Congo, as is the case everywhere, health 
is  at  the  heart  of  the  concept  of  human  development 
and  an  essential  component  of  the  poverty  reduction 
strategy.  The  Government’s  health  policy  is  based  on 
the  principles  of  equity,  accessibility,  decentralization 
and community participation. 

Lastly, I reiterate the support of my delegation for 
the Political Declaration just adopted (resolution 66/2, 
annex)  and  hope  that  the  issue  of  non-communicable 
diseases,  which  is  so  important,  will  be  included 
among the development goals. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ghulam  Nabi 
Azad, Minister for Health and Family Welfare of India. 
Mr.  Azad  (India):  At  the  outset,  allow  me  to 

congratulate  the  United  Nations  on  convening  this 
High-level  Meeting  on  the  extremely  important  and 
topical  issue  of  non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs). 
These  have  emerged  as  a  leading  cause  of  illness, 
disability and death and pose a mounting challenge to 
health-care 
and 
policymakers worldwide.  

As  far  as  India  is  concerned,  we  are  faced  with 
the  triple  burden  of  communicable  diseases,  new  and 
re-emerging  infections  and  an  increasing  incidence  of 
non-communicable  diseases.  More  than  half  of  all 
deaths  are  now  attributable  to  non-communicable 
diseases.  However,  we  must  recognize  that  conditions 
such as mental and neurological disorders also require 
special attention. 

As India’s Minister for Health, I am privileged to 
be here, and I believe that such a massive global effort 
will  be  very  useful  in  sensitizing  policymakers  at  the 
highest 
to  allocate  sufficient 
resources to combat NCDs. 

We  are  conscious  of  the  fact  that  NCDs  are  not 
only  a  health  issue  but  also  a  development  issue,  as 
they  impact  productivity  and  impoverish  the  society 
due to high health expenditures. 

The Government of India has launched a national 
programme  for  prevention  and  control  of  cancer, 
diabetes,  cardiovascular  diseases  and  stroke  and  the 
national programme for health care for the elderly. This 
has been taken up for implementation as a pilot project 
covering  a  population  of  150  million  in  100  inaccessible 
and  most  backward  districts  during 
the  current 
financial year, 2011-2012, at a cost of $275 million. As 
the  need 
levels 
to 
led 
India’s 
technology 
innovations  have 
I  speak  here 
today,  screening  for  diabetes  and 
hypertension is being carried out in those 100 districts 
in  21  states  and  in  urban  slums  in  33  cities  with  a 
population  of  more  than  1  million.  Our  target  is  to 
screen  about  150  million  people  by  2012  under  this 
pilot  project.  I  believe  this  would  be  the  largest  such 
exercise attempted anywhere in the world. I am happy 
to  state  that  this  programme  will  be  rolled  out  in  the 
entire country in April 2012. 

Our commitment to tobacco control remains firm. 
India was one of the initial countries to sign and ratify 
the  Framework  Convention  on  Tobacco  Control.  We 
have  passed  a  very  comprehensive  Tobacco  Products 
Control law, which bans smoking in public places, the 
sale of tobacco products to those below 18 years of age 
and  the  direct  or  indirect  advertisement  of  tobacco 
products 

to 
affordable  health  care  not  only  for  our  population  but 
also  for  many  other  countries  in  the  world.  We  must 
therefore  address  the  issue  of  trade  barriers,  which 
restrict  access  to  affordable  and  newly  developed 
medicines.  It  is  vital  to  ensure  universal  access  to 
medicines,  including  the  full  use  of  the  flexibilities 
contained  in  the Agreement  on  Trade-Related Aspects 
of  Intellectual  Property  Rights,  Including  Trade  in 
Counterfeit  Goods  (TRIPS)  and  the  Doha  Declaration 
on the TRIPS Agreement and Public Health. 

This meeting  provides us  an historic opportunity 
to reaffirm our commitments in terms of both financial 
and human resources for combating NCDs. We need to 
make  concrete  commitments  on 
sharing  global 
resources,  technical  expertise  and  best  practices  to 
build capacity to combat NCDs.  
In  conclusion,  let  me  reaffirm  India’s  strong 

commitment  to  the  outcome  document  and  our  firm 
resolve  to  prevent  and  combat  NCDs  by  improving 
accessibility  to  and  affordability  of  health  care  in  a 
concerted and more collaborative manner. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give the floor to Her Excellency Ms. Amenta Matthew, 
Minister for Health of the Marshall Islands. 
Ms.  Matthew  (Marshall  Islands):  It  is  a  distinct 

honour and pleasure for me to convey, on behalf of His 
Excellency  President  Jurelang  Zedkaia  and  the  people 
of  the  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands,  our  warmest 
“yokwe”  greetings  to  the  President,  the  Secretary-
16 

11-50356 
Islands 
issues 
for 
including 
leaders. 
It 
signifies 
NCDs 
in 
leadership 
the  Pacific  region, 
through  strong  and  appropriate  steps 


General,  heads  of  State  and  other  delegates  at  this 
important global meeting.  

As  a  Pacific  small  island  developing  State,  the 
Marshall 
is  particularly  burdened  by 
non-communicable diseases (NCDs), given our unique 
geographical  characteristics  and  constraints.  NCDs 
were among the issues highlighted during the meeting 
of  Pacific  Island  Ministers  for  Health,  held  in  June  in 
the  Solomon  Islands,  and  in  the  resulting  Honiara 
Communiqué  on 
the  Pacific  Non-communicable 
Diseases  Crisis.  This  Communiqué  has  been  affirmed 
in  this  month’s  statement  from  the  Pacific  Island 
Forum 
a 
strengthened  and  coordinated  regional  and  global 
response to this crisis. 
the 

Marshall  Islands,  are  mainly  caused  by 
lifestyle 
changes and are now becoming a serious epidemic. The 
Marshall Islands is urgently mobilizing to address this 
crisis 
that 
recognize the true emergency facing us. Our priorities 
include  diabetes,  as  the  Pacific  is  experiencing  one  of 
the  highest  prevalence  rates  in  the  world,  and  cancer, 
our  leading  cause  of  death,  as  well  as  contributing 
factors  including  alcoholism,  obesity  and  smoking. 
These  lifestyle-related  NCDs  are  brought  about  by 
some 
that  we  can  more  readily  address, 
including  exercise  and  a  healthier  diet,  and  by 
underlying 
poverty, 
unemployment and inequality. 

faces  unique 
challenges  in  addressing  food  security.  The  global 
community  must 
these 
crucial  interlinkages.  Given  the  prohibitive  costs  of 
NCD treatment and care, our vulnerable households are 
often  caught  in  a  cycle  of  debt,  impoverishment  and 
illness,  resulting  in  barriers  to  education  and  entering 
the  work  force.  That  compounds 
to 
achieving basic development goals. 

Our  Ministry  of  Health  is  already  allocating 
substantial  resources  to  treating  NCDs  —  a  clearly 
unsustainable  trend  that  is  likely  to  worsen  in  the 
future  if  nothing  is  done.  The  Marshall  Islands,  like 
other  Pacific  Island  nations,  faces  capacity  limitations 
in human and financial resources for addressing NCDs. 
However, we are guided by a handful of success stories 
such as our Wellness Center, which encourages healthy 
diets instead of medication. 
improve  understanding  of 
atoll  nation 
the  hurdles 
contributors 
Our 
low-lying 
such 
as 
A/66/PV.5

The  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands  is  fully 
committed  to  rapid  implementation  of  the  Healthy 
Islands  Action  Plan,  which  intensifies  the  use  of 
preventive interventions. We stand behind the regional 
commitment made by the Pacific Island Forum leaders. 

To  provide  the  appropriate  level  of  attention  to 
this  crisis,  the  United  Nations  and  its  Member  States 
should  now  consider  several  key  principles.  First  is 
that  addressing  NCDs  will  contribute  greatly  to  our 
overall  development  goals,  including  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. Secondly, the NCD crisis requires 
a coordinated global response, with stronger leadership 
at  national,  regional  and  international  levels.  Thirdly, 
national,  multisectoral  responses  to  NCDs  are  cost-
saving and effective in addressing both NCDs and their 
underlying  factors.  Finally,  the  success  of  this  High-
level  Meeting  depends  on  sustained  action  and 
accountability. 

The  Marshall  Islands  continues  to  forge  closer 
working  relationships  across  all  sectors  and  with 
regional  and  international  partners  to  address  NCDs. 
The  Marshall  Islands  strongly  supports  the  positive 
step  and  precedent  set  in  2009  by  the  World  Health 
Organization  in  inviting  Taiwan  to  participate  as  an 
observer  in  the  World  Health  Assembly.  Taiwan’s 
valuable 
has 
significantly  strengthened  the  global  health  network 
and  deserves  recognition  at 
this  Meeting.  Such 
effective  participation  should  be  expanded,  as  the 
international community stands to gain. 

The  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  is  a  primary 
partner in addressing NCDs, including through medical 
mobile  missions  in  our  local  hospitals,  donations  of 
medical supplies and, most significantly, the treatment 
of  cataract  patients  with  diabetes.  That  important 
progress  —  and  our  gratitude  —  must  not  be 
overlooked. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give  the  floor  to  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Fatim  Badjie, 
Minister of Health and Social Welfare of Gambia. 
Ms.  Badjie  (Gambia):  The  Gambia 
is  deeply 

unprecedented 
rise 
of 
concerned 
(NCD)  morbidity  and 
non-communicable  disease 
mortality across the globe. I am very much convinced 
that  NCDs  thrive  on  rapid  changes  in  our  lifestyles, 
wherever we may be. By cutting down on tobacco use 
and alcohol abuse and being mindful of unhealthy diets 
and insufficient physical activity, as well as by putting 
that  Assembly 
participation 
about 
the 
in 
11-50356 

17 

the 
banned 
Gambia 
treatment  of  NCDs 
A/66/PV.5 

in  place  mechanisms  for  prevention,  such  as  cancer 
screening  and  HVP  vaccines  for  adolescents,  and  for 
management  and 
such  as 
hypertension  and  diabetes,  experts  have  said  that 
millions of lives can be saved globally each year. 

The  Gambia  believes  that  the  risk  factors  I 
mentioned  are  beyond  the  individual  and  cannot  be 
addressed  except  through  global  unity  and  action, 
together  with  country-specific  initiatives.  Hence,  the 
timeliness and importance of this is Meeting cannot be 
overemphasized. 

Responding to the NCD challenges, I am pleased 
to  state  that  the  Gambia  has  taken  the  following 
initiatives. Mindful of the need to protect non-smokers, 
the  Gambia  legislated  against  public  smoking  through 
the  enactment  in  1998  of  the  Prohibition  of  Smoking 
(Public  Places)  Act.  To  reduce  demand  on  tobacco 
consumption, 
tobacco 
advertisement in the mass media through the 2003 Ban 
on  Tobacco  Advertisement  Act.  The  Gambia  also 
unconditionally ratified the World Health Organization 
(WHO) Framework Convention on Tobacco Control in 
2007.  Currently,  in  collaboration  with  the  local  WHO 
office, the Gambia plans to develop a national tobacco 
control strategy. 

Mindful  of  unhealthy  diets,  the  Government  of 
the  Gambia,  through  a  back-to-the-land  initiative,  is 
promoting  the  cultivation  and  consumption  of  home-
grown  foods.  The  initiative  has  generated  interest 
among 
the  Gambian  populace  and  has  generally 
improved food security in the communities. 

As  we  take  stock  of  the  global  challenges  of 
NCDs,  I  wish  to  remind  the Assembly  that  here  is  an 
urgent  need  to  commit  more  efforts  and  resources  to 
addressing the determinants of NCDs within and across 
countries.  There  is  a  need  to  facilitate  coordinated 
action  within  and  among  countries 
in  sharing 
experiences and best practices on NCD prevention and 
control.  We  need  to  strengthen  our  health  systems  to 
effectively respond to the wide and growing challenges 
posed by NCDs.  

Responding  to  that  need,  the  Gambia  is  at  this 
very  moment  finalizing  a  five-year  integrated  policy 
and  action  plan  for  NCD  prevention  and  control.  The 
Ministry  of  Health  and  Social  Welfare  is  also  in  the 
process  of  establishing  a  health  promotion  directorate 
that  will  also  house  an  NCD  division. The  policy  and 
creation  of  the  directorate  are  intended  to  give  the 
in 
(Peru) 
(spoke 
Mr.  Tejada
strategic  push  needed  to  address  the  promotion  of 
health and the prevention of NCDs as members of the 
same family.  

In  conclusion,  I  think  the  time  has  come  for  the 
world  to  act  fast  and  to  translate  the  known  scientific 
evidence on NCDs into realistic and concrete actions at 
all levels. We in the Gambia remain committed to this 
cause,  and  we  are  optimistic  that  the  world,  working 
together,  can  stem  the  unprecedented  rise  in  NCDs.  I 
therefore  thank  our  international  partners  for  their 
invaluable  support  in  the  prevention  and  management 
of communicable diseases over the past years, and for 
taking up NCDs more seriously. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency,  Mr.  Alberto  Tejada, 
Minister of Health of Peru. 
Spanish): 

Non-communicable  diseases,  also  known  as  lifestyle 
diseases,  are  a  serious  problem  throughout  the  world. 
Today,  far  more  people  are  affected  by  them  in 
medium-income and poor countries. In addition to the 
cost  in  human  pain  from  early  deaths  and  disability, 
there  are  catastrophic  costs  for  families  and  nations 
that perpetuate the cycle of poverty, undermining their 
development and well-being.  

Non-communicable  diseases  are  not  an  accident 
of  our  biology  or  an  unforeseeable  flaw  in  our  genes. 
Rather, 
represent  an  epidemic  caused  by 
environmental,  technological  and  economic  change 
that  we  have  created  by  following  a  model  of 
consumption 
the 
environment.  

Still,  there  is  good  news.  Today  we  know  far 
more  about  how  to  prevent  and  treat  such  diseases. 
That  is  where  our  focus  should  be  —  on  prevention. 
We  need  to  move  away  from  the  dangers  of  excess 
weight,  junk  food,  tobacco,  alcohol  abuse,  sedentary 
lifestyles  and  poverty.  President  Ollanta  Humala 
Tasso’s  Administration  encourages  and  promotes 
socially  inclusive  development.  We  must  focus  on 
education and on developing public policies to make it 
easier  for  the  whole  population  to  lead  healthy  lives. 
Our  current  efforts  on  tobacco  and  alcohol  offer  a 
valuable  example,  but  in  diet  and  exercise  we  must 
find more effective measures. 

We  suggest  the  following.  We  need  to  protect 
local traditional cuisines that use whole, natural foods 
that  harms  human  health  and 
they 
18 

11-50356 
therefore  assert 
to  adequate  care.  I 


and  that  are  central  to  the  identities  of  communities. 
We must limit the increasingly widespread advertising 
of processed  junk food directed at  all segments of the 
population.  The  World  Health Assembly  alerted  us  to 
that danger in its 2010 meeting, especially in regard to 
children.  Schools  must  actively  promote  physical 
education  and  good  nutrition  and 
teach  new 
generations  better  eating  habits.  We  must  improve 
production and the low-cost availability of natural food 
in order to encourage its widespread consumption. We 
also think junk food should be taxed, as tobacco is. No 
less 
important,  we  must  encourage  breastfeeding 
during the first six months of life, and enforce the laws 
about commercial substitutes.  

We  also  believe  that  public  policies  should 
encourage  physical  activity  and  recreation,  providing 
workplace spaces and safe, healthy outdoor spaces for 
that  purpose.  We  need  to  enlarge  our  network  of 
community health centres. Lastly, we must not neglect 
the  sick,  especially  the  poor,  and  we  must  grant  them 
access 
the 
commitment of the Government of Peru to a policy of 
universal  access  to  insurance  coverage  and  medicines 
for all. In this, we lean on the principles of the World 
Trade  Organization  Declaration  on  the  Agreement  on 
Trade-Related  Aspects  of  Intellectual  Property  Rights 
and Public Health, of November 2011. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Luis  Estruch 
Rancaño, Vice-Minister of Public Health of Cuba. 
Mr.  Rancaño  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Cuba 

appreciates the efforts made by the General Assembly, 
which  10  years  ago  first  confronted  the  public  health 
challenge of the AIDS epidemic. We are now focusing on a 
second  issue  of  world  importance  —  non-communicable 
diseases  (NCDs).  Cuba  has  participated  over  the  past 
two  years  in  the  World  Health  Assembly  meetings  in 
Geneva and its regional ministerial summit conferences 
in  Mexico  and  Russia.  A  general  consensus  has  been 
reached  on  how 
these  difficulties 
confronting humankind. 

Cuba  faced  a  period  when  it  had  to  deal  with 
infectious  diseases  and  high  child  mortality  rates,  a 
process 
social 
transformation. We have achieved a child mortality rate 
of 4.5 per 1,000, with a rate of 6.3 per cent for children 
under five and a general life expectancy of 78 years. 
to  confront 
country’s 
that 
required 
the 
A/66/PV.5
to 

Currently,  7  per  cent  of  deaths  are  caused  by 
infectious diseases and 67 per cent by NCDs. We have 
sought to conduct rigorous epidemiological monitoring 
for  risk  factors. As  a  result,  tobacco  consumption  has 
fallen  from  38  to  23  per  cent  in  10  years,  while  the 
incidence  of  obesity  and  hypertension  pressure  has 
increased.  We  have  instituted  awareness  programmes 
to  help  reduce  salt  and  sugar  consumption,  though  in 
itself  that  is  not  enough  to  deal  with  the  current 
situation with NCDs. 

Today  our  country  is  tackling  this  epidemic  in 
10 main  areas.  We  are  strengthening  primary  health 
care. Cuba has free medical care accessible to all, and 
we are reforming our approach with greater attention to 
awareness  and  prevention.  We  are  improving  care  for 
children  and  women,  particularly  regarding  the  issues 
under discussion. We have implemented a multisectoral 
approach  with  other  ministries 
the  areas  of 
promoting  sport  and  reducing  tobacco  and  alcohol 
consumption.  Our  improved  social  communication 
programme  has  helped  us  to  raise  awareness  of  risks 
and  promote  lifestyle  changes.  We  are  preparing  new 
laws  for  adoption  by  the  central  Government,  and 
working with every sector of civil society — including 
women, children, young people and farmers — seeking 
to  have  greater 
impact  on  risk  awareness  and 
behaviour.  
We are also attempting to promote health in more 

practical  ways.  We  produce  80  per  cent  of  the 
medicines  we  need,  but  we  are  also  seeking  the 
cooperation of the food industry in order to reduce salt, 
sugar  and  trans-fats  in  its  products.  The  Council  of 
Ministers is currently working on a strategy for 2011 to 
2015 to improve intersectoral strategies on risk factors. 

Today,  the  global  economic  crisis,  the  growing 
effects  of  climate  change  and  food  insecurity,  and  the 
dangers  of  war  and  natural  disasters  are  putting  poor 
countries  in  a  worse  position  to  address  the  complex 
challenges  presented  by  NCDs.  In  its  50  years  of 
dealing  with  the  American  blockade  and  operating 
under  the  same  challenges  that  we  have  discussed  in 
the  Assembly  in  the  past,  we  call  for  joint  scientific 
approaches and the sharing of lessons learned between 
all countries, and for continued international solidarity. 
For  instance,  more  than  200,000  Cubans  have  offered 
their  medical  services  abroad  and  trained  human 
resource  personnel  in  more  than  78  countries.  No 
country 
the  fatal  and 
economically unsustainable effects of NCDs, but if we 
is  free  of 
the  world 
in 
11-50356 

19 

diseases 
to  address 
Non-communicable 
A/66/PV.5 

all work together pursuing clear policies, we can work 
to combat them. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give the floor to Mr. Mahmoud Fikri, Under-Secretary 
for Health Policy Affairs of the United Arab Emirates. 
Mr.  Fikri  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke  in 

Arabic):  I  am  honoured 
the  General 
Assembly  on  behalf  of  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council 
(GCC).  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  offer  the 
President  our  thanks  and  appreciation  for  convening 
this  important  meeting,  and  to  the  Secretary-General 
for  his  report  on 
this  subject  (A/66/83),  whose 
recommendations we support. 

(NCDs) 
unquestionably  represent  a  huge  economic,  social  and 
health  burden.  They  hinder  global 
economic 
development  and  challenge  national  and  international 
efforts  towards  reaching  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. The  GCC  therefore  emphasizes  the  importance 
of  prioritizing  the  issue  of  NCDs  in  our  development 
programmes.  

Our  national,  regional  and  international  efforts 
should  focus  on  providing  financial  support  for  NCD 
prevention  and  control  programmes.  Governments 
should  undertake  to  combat  these  diseases  at  the 
national  level.  The  GCC  countries  are  keen  to  forge 
cooperative  alliances  and  partnerships  with 
the 
international  community  in  providing  assistance  to 
developing  and  poor  countries  in  supporting  their 
development and health-care programmes. 

The  changes  that  have  taken  place  in  GCC 
countries  due  to  population  growth,  the  high  cost  of 
living, including lifestyle changes, and shifts in disease 
patterns  have  led  to  an  enormous  increase  in  the 
prevalence  of  cardiovascular  disease,  diabetes  and 
respiratory and other chronic diseases. Of the region’s 
health problems overall, 45 per cent are attributable to 
NCDs, and that figure is projected to reach 60 per cent 
by  2020.  Diabetes  and  cardiovascular  and  arterial 
disease are the major killers in the GCC countries. 

The  health  and  economic  burdens  of  NCDs  are 
thus increasing, which has led our Governments to take 
swift action to control and combat them. Over the past 
four years, the Council of Health Ministers of the GCC 
countries,  which  with  coordinates  and  develops 
common  statements  and  declarations  on  health,  has 
adopted 
decisions, 
significant 
a 
number 
of 
In  February  2011, 
recommendations  and  documents,  such  as  the  Riyadh 
Declaration  on  Diabetes  Economics;  the  Al-Manama 
Declaration  on 
the  Economics  of  Cardiovascular 
Diseases;  the  Jeddah  Declaration  on  Care  of  Diabetic 
Patients;  and  the  Dubai  Declaration  on  Diabetes  and 
Chronic  Non-Communicable  Diseases  in  the  Middle 
East and North Africa (MENA) Region. In addition, we 
also  instituted  a  tobacco  control  programme  in  1979 
that  received  an  award  from 
the  World  Health 
Organization (WHO) in 1999. 

the  Council  of  Health 
Ministers  adopted  several  declarations  and  resolutions 
on  developing  and  supporting  initiatives  to  combat 
NCDs,  a  policy  initiated  in  Bahrain  for  the  entire 
region from 2011 to 2020. The Council also adopted a 
comprehensive and integrated plan aimed at combating 
diabetes  within  the  WHO  guidelines  and  those  of  the 
Middle  East  and  North  Africa  Diabetes  Leadership 
Forum, held in Dubai in 2010. 

We are fighting NCDs with special attention and 
care  to  women,  especially  pregnant  women,  children, 
and the empowerment of women and other patients.  
In December 2011, an international conference on 

diabetes  will  take  place  in  Dubai  in  partnership  with 
international  economic  forums  and  many  United 
Nations agencies. 
In  conclusion,  we  wish  to  reiterate  our  full 

support  in  this  area.  We  shall  cooperate  effectively 
with  our  partners  to  implement  the  recommendations 
and  decisions  of  the  United  Nations,  and  we  support 
the  Political  Declaration  (resolution  66/2,  annex) 
adopted at this High-level Meeting. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  give 

the floor to Mr. Raed Arafat, Under-Secretary of State 
at the Ministry of Health of Romania. 
Mr. Arafat  (Romania):  It  is  likely  that  all  of  us 

gathered  here  today  are  deeply  concerned  that  the 
global burden of non-communicable diseases continues 
to  grow.  That  is  why  Romania  expresses  its  gratitude 
and  support  for  this  initiative  designed  to  develop  an 
integrated  global  policy  on  the  prevention  and  control 
of non-communicable diseases. 

Romania  also  supports  the  Political  Declaration 
adopted  by  this  High-level  Meeting  (resolution  66/2, 
annex)  and  considers  it  to  be  a  necessary  step  at  the 
global 
inequity.  The 
background of the  adoption of the Declaration reveals 
reducing  health 
level 
for 
20 

11-50356 
increasingly  obvious 


the  urgent  need  for  global  cooperation  in  addressing 
this  emerging  challenge. We  believe  that  the  adoption 
of the Declaration provides an opportunity for States to 
establish  forward-looking  policies  in  this  area,  which 
are absolutely essential not only in terms of health and 
welfare but also economically and socially. 

Preventing  non-communicable  diseases  would 
reduce poverty, especially  since most expenditures for 
treatment in low- and middle-income countries are paid 
either  through  private  systems  or  take  the  form  of 
informal  payments.  We  believe  that  the  Declaration 
may  lead  to  an  environment  that  will  allow  people  to 
take  responsibility  for  their  own  health.  We  see  the 
Declaration  and  this  meeting  as  a  lever  to  mobilize 
national  policies  and  create  conditions  that  motivate 
individuals by changing their attitudes and behaviours. 
However,  we  emphasize  the  importance  of  public 
actions  and  strategies  in  making  the  right  individual 
choices easier. 

that 
Governments  have  the  responsibility  to  fulfil  the  very 
important  role  of  responding  to  the  challenge  of 
non-communicable  diseases  and 
that  effort  and 
commitment from all sectors of society are essential to 
generating  effective  responses  to  prevent  and  control 
these diseases. Health must be taken into account in all 
policies. 

to  non-communicable  diseases 
should  be  twofold  —  first,  through  well-designed 
prevention  programmes 
to  national  and 
regional  population  needs,  and  secondly,  through  the 
early  detection  and  treatment  of  non-communicable 
diseases  using  proven  diagnostic  and 
treatment 
technology, leading to reduced morbidity and mortality 
in this area. 

We recognize therefore the critical importance of 
strengthening  health  systems,  including  infrastructure, 
health care, human resources in health, and health and 
social  protection  systems,  especially  in  developing 
countries,  in  order  to  respond  in  an  efficient  and 
equitable  way  to  the  health-care  needs  of  people  with 
non-communicable diseases. 
Romania considers it essential to raise awareness 

of  the  importance  of  investments  in  health  as  a 
precondition  to  economic  development,  and  welcomes 
the  Declaration’s 
strengthen 
national  health  systems,  especially  with  regard  to 
investments  in  prevention  and  treatment  of  diseases 
The  approach 
recommendation 
to 
It 
is  becoming 
tailored 
11-50356 

A/66/PV.5
caused  by  non-communicable  diseases, 
including 
support  for  associated  palliative  care.  Only  in  the 
context of ensuring sustainable health-system financing 
can  consistent  action  be  taken  to  guarantee  economic 
development. 

In Romania, in recent years we have undertaken a 
number of initiatives consistent with the goals set forth 
in the Declaration. The first such initiative, launched in 
1997, was a project entitled “A healthy lifestyle based 
on  nutrition  and  physical  activity”  for  children  and 
adults. The  results  of  the  project  were  included  in  the 
EuroHealthNet  2009  report,  “Focusing  on  obesity 
through a health equity lens”.  

A second project, called “Increased access to high 
quality  prevention  services:  healthy  nutrition  and 
physical  activity  for  children  and  adolescents 
in 
Romania”, aims at stopping and reversing the trend of 
increasing  overweight  and  obesity  cases  among 
children  and  adolescents  in  the  country  by  2020. This 
project,  which  started  just  last  year,  was  financed 
through  cohesion  funds  from  the  Government  of 
Norway.  
A  third  project  is  a  State-funded  programme  for 

the  early  detection  of  acute  myocardial  infarction  and 
early  access  to  definitive  care  for  patients  with  this 
condition.  It  was  launched  in  August  2009  and  takes 
into consideration the high acute myocardial infarction 
mortality 
to 
preliminary data, the project has led within one year to 
the reduction of the rate of acute myocardial infarction 
mortality nationwide by 3 per cent and, in the 10 pilot 
centres  where  it  was  implemented,  by  up  to  40  per 
cent.  

These  data  may  lead  us  to  the  conclusion  that 
State-funded,  specifically  targeted  projects  originating 
from  evidence-based  medical  practices  can  lead  to 
reduction  of  morbidity  and  mortality  in  a  very  short 
time  span.  Combining  such  projects  with  prevention 
projects will surely lead to further important reductions 
in  morbidity  and  mortality  in  the  medium  and  long 
terms.  

Again,  we  want  to  thank  the  United  Nations  for 
its efforts in promoting awareness in the framework of 
an  integrated  policy  for  reducing  global  inequalities 
generated  by  non-communicable  diseases,  and  for 
raising  awareness  of  the  need  for  a  concerted  and 
coordinated  policy  response  to  include  the  prevention 
and  control  of  non-communicable  diseases  in  global 
rate  of  13.5  per  cent.  According 
21 

in  related 
investment 
than 
shift 
initiatives  and 
from  communicable  diseases 
A/66/PV.5 

development 
decisions. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  give 

the floor to Mr. Murat Tuncer, Head of the Department 
of Cancer Control of the Ministry of Health of Turkey. 
Mr.  Tuncer  (Turkey):  It  is  a  pleasure  for  me  to 

address  the  General Assembly  today  on  behalf  of  the 
Republic  of  Turkey  on  the  very  important  subject  of 
non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs).  I  would  like  to 
thank  the  Secretary-General,  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  the  Director-General  of  the 
World  Health  Organization  for  having  organized  this 
significant gathering.  

For  the  second  time  in  the  history  of  the  United 
Nations,  a  High-level  Meeting  is  being  held  on  an 
emerging  health  issue  —  non-communicable  diseases. 
As  is  known,  in  the  past  20  years  there  has  been  a 
to 
dramatic 
non-communicable  diseases.  NCDs  are 
the  most 
serious and dangerous future problem faced by human 
beings.  We  appreciate  the  2008-2013  Action  Plan  for 
the  Global  Strategy  for  the  Prevention  and  Control  of 
Non-communicable Diseases in this regard.  

Cancer  is  gaining  in  priority  and  importance 
among NCDs every day. There exists a metamorphosis 
in cancer  control today, and we need to understand it. 
Cancer  control  is  unique;  consisting  of  more  than 
standards, it is preventive more than therapeutic, and is 
both  analytic  and  scientific.  Cancer  profiles  are  also 
unique, and differences, determinants and barriers must 
be figured out. Cancer control should be global public 
policy.  The 
policy  more 
establishment  of  cancer  control 
the 
national level is necessary now. Otherwise, all our talk 
and  deliberations,  though  sincere,  would  only  lead  to 
inconclusive  efforts.  Indeed,  we  need  a  specific 
institution  to  provide  regional  oversight  for  cancer 
control programmes. 
Cancer control is one the biggest problems, and is 

becoming increasingly serious every day in developing 
countries.  Lack  of  coordination  among  Governments 
and  non-governmental  organizations  (NGOs) 
is  a 
critical barrier for effective cancer control programmes 
and  action  plans  in  those  countries.  The  question  is, 
who  should  take  the  initiative  and  who  will  lead  the 
cancer control action plan? The critical answer to that 
question  entails  the  establishment  and  functioning  of 
national  cancer  control  institutes.  In  that  context,  the 
governmental 
institutes  at 
focus 
cancer 
implementation  of 
international  community  should  promote  and  support 
such  institutes  at  the  national  level  using  specific 
instruments.  

The  next  step  ought  to  be  to  determine  the 
profiles,  objectives  and  structures  of  those  institutes. 
We  believe  that  cancer  control  institutes  should  have 
some  degree  of  independence  from  health  ministries. 
They  need  to  have  a  scientific  dimension  and  work 
towards  developing  unique,  effective,  sustainable  and 
appropriate  control  programmes  by  using  research 
modalities  and  regional  resources.  It  is  of  central 
importance  that  these  institutes  cooperate  effectively 
with  NGOs  and  patient  advocacy  groups.  Cancer 
institutes  should 
in  particular  on  cancer 
registries, prevention and screening and palliative care. 
Attention  to  human  resources  and  capacity-building  is 
a  must  in  that  regard.  The  stability  of  regional  and 
international 
control 
programmes should continue. 

I  would  now  like  to  provide  a  brief  overview  of 
the  Turkish  nation’s  cancer  control  plan  and  our 
international  endeavours  in  that  regard.  Turkey  has  a 
cancer  budget  of  €2.3  billion  —  the  sixth-largest  in 
Europe. We have 170,000 new cancer cases every year. 
Some  components  of  our  national  cancer  control 
strategy  programme  include  management,  registries, 
prevention,  screening,  early  detection, 
treatment, 
palliative  care  and  public  awareness-raising.  We  have 
established  active,  population-based  cancer  registries, 
the  data  of  which  have  now  been  accredited  by  the 
International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC).  

The  cervical,  breast  and  colorectal  cancer 
screening  programme  has  been  expanded  to  a  total  of 
124  early  diagnosis  and  screening  centres,  which 
means  that  we  have  at  least  one  such  centre  in  each 
city. On average, the centres diagnose more than 2,000 
new cancer cases each year. Screening coverage is now 
at  nearly  50  per  cent,  while  our  aim  is  to  reach  more 
than  70  per  cent  by  2015.  We  have  published  a 
palliative care action plan, which covers every step in 
the palliative care process. We will establish a total of 
54 cancer treatment centres in Turkey by 2023. 

This  year,  Turkey  was  accepted  as  the  twenty-
second  member  of  IARC.  We  are  also  an  active 
member  of  the  Middle  East  Cancer  Consortium,  the 
Asian  Pacific  Organization  for  Cancer  Prevention,  the 
Mediterranean  Task  Force  for  Cancer  Control,  the 
Asian National Cancer Centers Alliance and the Black 
22 

11-50356 
improve  global  health.  While 
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon)  (spoke 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 


Sea Countries Coalition on Breast and Cervical Cancer 
Prevention.  In  that  regard,  we  are  ready  to  share  our 
regional  and  international  experiences  in  support  of 
United  Nations  and  World  Health  Organization 
activities. 

give the floor to the representative of Cameroon. 
in 

French): Allow me, first of all, to take this opportunity 
to warmly congratulate the President on his election as 
President  of  this  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  I 
also  congratulate  the  members  of  the  Bureau.  I  am 
convinced  that  his  eminent  qualities  will  allow  for 
fruitful  and  constructive  dialogue  and  ensure  the 
success  of  our  endeavours.  I  assure  him  of  the  full 
cooperation of my country and my delegation. 

Non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs),  which  are 
the  subject  of  our  debate,  pose  a  new  challenge  in 
efforts 
the 
international  community  has  long  accorded  priority  to 
the  fight  against 
transmissible  diseases,  such  as 
HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  tuberculosis,  the  four  main 
types  of  NCDs  —  cardiovascular  disease,  diabetes, 
cancer  and  chronic  respiratory  diseases  —  receive 
scant  attention  in  developing  countries,  until  they 
become epidemics.  
One  is  tempted  to  liken  the  evolution  of  these 

chronic  diseases  and  their  risk  factors  over  the  past 
several years to the sound of a drumbeat warning — as 
is  traditional  in Africa  —  of  a  major  threat  that  could 
even imperil our societies. The situation is all the more 
worrisome  to  the  extent  that,  by  2030,  NCDs  are 
projected 
times  as  many  deaths 
worldwide as transmissible diseases, including in low- 
and  medium-income  countries,  which  have  until  very 
recently  not  been  seriously  affected.  Like  other 
developing regions of the world, Africa is experiencing 
a  steady  increase  in  NCDs,  as  well  as  in  the  resulting 
use  of  health  services  to  counter  such  formidable 
diseases.  
That  said,  we  may  first  ask  ourselves  how  we 

the  point  where  NCDs  have  become  a 
reached 
several  possible 
worldwide 
explanations, of course, but there is one reality that we 
see throughout the world, that is, changes in lifestyle in 
the wake of major advances in science, technology and 
development. Indeed, if progress in the modern age has 
made  it  possible  to  improve  the  quality  of  life  of 
threat.  There 
are 
to 
to  cause 
five 
A/66/PV.5
humankind,  it  has  also  proven  detrimental  to  our 
lifestyles,  which  are  not  always  conducive  to  good 
health.  

The main risk factors and methods of preventing 
these  diseases  are  well  known. Were  such  risk  factors 
as  tobacco  use,  unhealthy  diets,  lack  of  physical 
activity and alcohol abuse removed, at least 80 per cent 
of  all  cardiovascular  diseases,  strokes  and  type-2 
diabetes  would  be  eliminated,  whiled  40  per  cent  of 
cancer cases would be prevented. Given that challenge, 
it  would  not  be  out  of  order  to  look  at  what  has  been 
done to prevent or counter these scourges. 

Global  awareness  has  increased  over  the  past 
10 years, thanks to the adoption of the Global Strategy 
for  the  Prevention  and  Control  of  Non-communicable 
Diseases,  adopted  during  the  fifty-third  session  of  the 
World Health Assembly. Since 2000, the World Health 
Assembly  has  adopted  a  number  of  resolutions  on 
measures  to  be  implemented,  in  particular  the  World 
Health  Organization  Framework  Convention  on 
Tobacco Control, in 2003; the Global Strategy on Diet, 
Physical Activity  and  Health,  in  2004;  and  the  Global 
Strategy  to  Reduce  the  Harmful  Use  of  Alcohol,  in 
2010.  In  2008,  the Assembly  endorsed  the  2008-2013 
Action  Plan  for  the  Global  Strategy,  focusing  in 
particular  on  low-  and  middle-income  countries  and 
vulnerable populations.  

In  Africa,  efforts  to  combat  non-communicable 
diseases  are  among  the  priorities  identified  in  the 
World  Health  Organization  strategic  guidelines  for 
2010-2015.  In  that  connection,  regional  committees 
have adopted a number of strategies on mental health, 
cardiovascular disease, cancers, sickle-cell disease and 
on combating smoking and the harmful consumption of 
alcohol.  

For many years, Cameroon’s health policies were 
focused  on  countering  infectious  diseases  and  those 
which  were  not  vaccine-preventable.  My  country 
tended  to  concentrate  on  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  and  therefore  did  not  escape  the 
phenomenon  of  an  epidemiological  shift  with  the 
emergence  of  non-communicable  diseases.  Recent 
these 
statistics  on  premature  deaths  caused  by 
supposedly 
particular 
cardiovascular  disease,  diabetes  and  cancer  —  are  of 
great concern. 

Cardiovascular  disease  is  increasingly  striking 
the youngest swathe of our population. Six per cent of 
our  adult  population  is  living  with  diabetes.  Twenty-
lives  with 
five  per  cent  of 
that  same  group 
diseases  — 
silent 
in 
11-50356 

23 

A/66/PV.5 

hypertension.  There  are  12,000  new  cancer  cases 
recorded each year, while epilepsy affects 6 per cent of 
the population. Five per cent of the total population is 
afflicted with asthma, while 20 per cent are carriers for 
sickle  cell  anaemia.  Psychological  and  mental 
disorders account for 5 per cent of the  overall disease 
burden in the African region. 
Cameroon  is  well  aware  of  this  situation  and  of 

the  need  to  ascertain  the  extent  of  non-communicable 
diseases. Therefore, in view of its goal of becoming a 
country  with  an  emerging  economy  by  2035,  my 
country  has  made  non-communicable  diseases  a 
priority  in  the  context  of  its  strategic  public  health 
planning. Various measures that aim to reduce the risk 
factors  for  these  illnesses  have  been  adopted  for  the 
period 2011-2013. Among them, we have taken steps to 
reduce  the  use  of  tobacco  and  alcohol,  particularly 
through  warnings  on  cigarette  packages  and  by 
prohibiting the sale of alcohol to minors under 18 years 
of age. 

We  have  also  promoted  the  replacement  of 
trans-fats by polyunsaturated fats in food products, and 
are  campaigning  to  raise  public  awareness  about  the 
health benefits of a balanced diet and the importance of 
engaging  in  physical  activity.  We  are  also  promoting 
vaccination against hepatitis-B, as part of an expanded 
vaccination programme. 

the 
International  Partnership  for  Health  and  Related 
Initiatives, in June 2010, the Minister of Public Health, 
along  with  all  interested  stakeholders  and  groups, 
conducted an analysis of that sector that resulted in the 
formulation  of  a  new  policy  and  the  revision  of  the 
national health development plan. 

At  the  institutional  level,  special  emphasis  was 
placed  on  reactivating  coordination  and  research  on 
non-communicable diseases in the relevant branches of 
the  Ministry  of  Public  Health  through  improved  staff 
training.  

Furthermore,  Cameroon  has  made  great  progress 
in  the  area  of  norms  by  ratifying  the  World  Health 
Organization  Framework  Convention  on  Tobacco 
Control,  the  Brazzaville  declaration  on  the  prevention 
of  non-communicable  diseases  and 
the  Moscow 
declaration  on  healthy  lifestyles  and  non-communicable 
disease control. 

In addition, with a view to integrating health into 
my  country’s  overall  development  plan,  a  large-scale 
project  to  provide  our  hospital  infrastructure  with 
after  Cameroon 
addition, 
joined 
In 
in 
financial 
resources 
this  sector, 
major 
technical  equipment  and  medical  supplies 
capable  of  delivering  quality  diagnostics  has  been 
implemented  as  part  of  an  increased  commitment  to 
addressing  non-communicable  diseases.  Particular 
emphasis  has  also  been  placed  on  a  preventive 
approach  in  the  fight  against  those  diseases  through 
wide-scale programmes of public health awareness. 
I would like to conclude by saying that combating 

the 
non-communicable  diseases,  and  mobilizing 
necessary 
to  accompany  and 
implement  the  measures  of  our  plan  to  combat  those 
diseases,  continues  to  be  Cameroon’s  main  challenge. 
We  are  therefore  committed  to  continuing  to  step  up 
our  fight  against  non-communicable  diseases  by 
bolstering human, material and financial resources and 
by  developing  and  implementing  our  first  integrated 
multisectoral strategic plan to prevent and combat such 
diseases.  In  that  regard,  my  Government  is  currently 
working  to  establish  a  national  fund  to  address  public 
health emergencies and provide funding for prevention 
efforts 
including  on  combating 
non-communicable diseases. 

By  the  same  token,  Cameroon,  along  with  the 
other African countries, calls for the establishment of a 
global  fund  to  combat  non-communicable  diseases,  in 
the  hope  that  funding  allocated  by  the  international 
community  will  not  compete  with  funds  already 
earmarked  for  global  care  of  the  non-communicable 
disease  that  I  have  mentioned,  for  which  sub-Saharan 
Africa is still paying a heavy cost. 

My  country  avails  itself  of  this  opportunity  to 
thank  its  partners  in  development  and  to  express  the 
hope  that  we  may  continue  to  count  on  them  to  meet 
our challenges. 

I cannot conclude without recalling that there are 
only  four  years  left  until  2015,  the  deadline  for  the 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. It 
is  by  that  date  that  countries  are  working  to  meet  the 
commitments  made  10  years  ago  to  significantly 
improve  the  living  conditions  of  their  people.  The 
evident  progression  of  non-communicable  disease  in 
developing  countries  is  seriously  undermining  our 
progress  towards  achieving  those  Goals.  Yet  there  is 
hope.  We  can  meet  this  challenge  through  collective 
action  and  by  sharing  successful  experiences  and 
strengthening  national, 
international 
networks to combat non-communicable diseases.  

  The meeting rose at 9 p.m. 
regional  and 
24 

11-50356 
