
A/66/PV.33
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

33rd plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 11 October 2011, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 
hindered  our  collective  efforts  towards  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  in  Africa. 
While  Africa  has  shown  great  resilience  and  made 
tremendous  progress,  much  more  remains 
to  be 
achieved.  Allow  me  to  reiterate  here  my  country’s 
continued  stance  in  remaining  firm  and  in  solidarity 
with Africa in support of NEPAD’s goal of generating 
broad-based and equitable economic growth conducive 
to  poverty  reduction  in  Africa  and  ensuring  Africa’s 
enhanced integration within the global economy. 
Thailand  wishes  to  commend  the  Secretary-

General  for  his  comprehensive  reports  on  the  agenda 
items  under  consideration,  entitled  “New  Partnership 
for Africa’s  Development:  ninth  consolidated  progress 
report  on  implementation  and  international  support” 
(A/66/202)  and  “Implementation  of  the  recommendations 
contained in the report of the Secretary-General on the 
causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable  peace 
and sustainable development in Africa” (A/66/214), as 
well  as  his  note  entitled  “2001-2010:  Decade  to  Roll 
Back Malaria in Developing Countries,  Particularly in 
Africa”  (A/66/169).  Thailand  welcomes  in  particular 
NEPAD’s concrete progress as reflected in the reports. 
Permit me now to share with members of the Assembly 
some of Thailand’s views. 

First, we  reaffirm our commitment to Africa  and 
reiterate  our  aim  to  deepen  relations  with  our African 
friends  as  partners  in  development  in  all  dimensions, 
based  on  mutual 
full 
international  support  for  the  implementation  of  the 
Istanbul  Programme  of Action,  adopted  in  May  at  the 
trust.  We  also  call 
for 







In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Zinsou 
(Benin), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.  






Agenda items 63 and 13 (continued)
New Partnership for Africa’s Development: progress 
in implementation and international support 
  (a)  New Partnership for Africa’s Development: 
progress in implementation and  
international support 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/66/202)  

  (b)  Causes of conflict and the promotion of durable 
peace and sustainable development in Africa 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/66/214) 

2001-2010: Decade to Roll Back Malaria in 
Developing Countries, Particularly in Africa 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/66/169) 

Mr.  Sinhaseni  (Thailand):  At  the  outset,  my 

delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  delivered 
this  morning  by  my  colleague 
the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Indonesia  on  behalf  of  the  States 
members  of 
the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations. 

Ten  years  have  passed  since  African  leaders 
adopted the New Partnership for Africa’s Development 
(NEPAD)  in  July  2001.  During  these  past  10  years, 
many  crises,  both  natural  and  man-made,  have 





This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-54043 (E) 
*1154043* 


A/66/PV.33 

Fourth United Nations Conference on Least Developed 
Countries. 

Secondly,  Thailand  supports  the  implementation 
of  policy  actions  on  NEPAD’s  sectoral  priorities  and 
stands ready to share our experiences in economic and 
social  development  with  Africa.  We  are  always 
prepared to explore meaningful ways to work together 
through  both  South-South  and  triangular  cooperation, 
such as in the case of the cooperation among Thailand, 
Japan  and  Africa  and  that  with  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Trade  and  Development  through  the 
International  Institute  for  Trade  and  Development  in 
Bangkok. 

Thailand  has  long  worked  with  our  African 
partners  to  advance  Africa’s  development  agenda.  In 
2010,  Thailand  implemented  242  programmes  for 
Africa,  amounting  to  $1.1  million,  through  bilateral, 
trilateral  and  multilateral  cooperation.  Forty-five 
fellowships were extended to Africa last year, totalling 
$465,000,  with  an  emphasis  on  human  resources 
development and capacity-building. 

We  have  targeted  key  areas  in  which  we  have 
experience and expertise, which we believe will have a 
great impact on the people. The first area is agriculture, 
to  increase  productivity  and  add  value  to  agricultural 
products.  Additional  areas  include  public  health,  to 
build capacity in preventing and treating pandemics as 
well as community health development; education with 
particular  emphasis  on  capacity-building  at  the  grass-
roots  level  in  areas  such  as  tourism  and  small  and 
medium enterprise development. 

It goes without saying that peace and security are 
necessary  for  the  success  of  any  economic  and  social 
development  efforts.  We  are  therefore  proud  and 
privileged  that Thailand  is  able  to  contribute  to  peace 
and  stability  in Africa. At  present,  an  800-strong Thai 
infantry  battalion  is  serving  alongside  our  African 
brothers  in  the  African  Union-United  Nations  Hybrid 
Operation in Darfur. In addition, Thailand has sent two 
counter-piracy task groups to join international efforts 
in patrolling the Gulf of Aden. 

Thirdly, as my Foreign Minister stated during this 
year’s  general  debate  (see  A/66/PV.28),  development 
must  be  people-centred.  Thailand  therefore  supports 
NEPAD’s  founding  document,  which  emphasizes  the 
need for partnership between African Governments and 
their  people,  as  well  as 
the  Secretary-General’s 
for 
his 
recommendations 
reports 
calling 
in 
for 
and 
annual 
projects 
strengthening  mechanisms 
the  participation, 
inclusion and empowerment of all segments of society 
in  the  political  and  development  processes  in  order  to 
truly achieve sustainable and equitable development. 

Fourthly,  climate  change  is  a  serious  threat  to 
food  security  and  sustainable  development,  especially 
for  least  developed  countries.  We  therefore  call  for 
early and adequate funding of developing countries for 
adaptation  and  mitigation  measures,  as  well  as  the 
transfer of relevant technology. 
Lastly,  concerning  the  fight  against  malaria, 

Thailand was successful in reducing the number of its 
reported cases by more than 50 per cent between 2000 
and  2009.  In  this  regard,  we  will  continue  to  move 
forward  with  preventive  measures  and  aim  to  reduce 
the  number  of  malaria-risk  areas  in  Thailand  by  a 
further 20 per cent by 2020. We have also joined with 
our neighbours in the Mekong subregion to collectively 
fight  malaria.  Moreover,  Thailand  is  committed  to 
continuing to share our experiences and best practices 
with  Africa  in  the  fight  against  malaria  through 
capacity-building 
training 
programmes,  in  order  to  achieve  NEPAD’s  goals  and 
MDG targets. 

Finally, NEPAD has made much progress and has 
gained  momentum.  We  must  therefore  find  ways  to 
ensure  that  global  and  regional  challenges  and  crises 
do not nullify those gains. Collective solidarity will be 
needed from within Africa, as well as on the part of the 
international  community, 
this 
momentum  and  further  support  the  implementation  of 
the  priorities  to  which  I  have  referred  for  a  more 
peaceful  and  prosperous  Africa.  Thailand  remains 
committed to this goal and to our African friends. 
Mrs. Dunlop (Brazil): Allow me, at the outset, to 

Brazilian 
acknowledge 
the 
parliamentarians  at 
the  General 
Assembly.  They  have  come  a  long  way  from  various 
regions of Brazil to lend their support to our work. In 
particular, I  would like to thank Senator Petecão from 
Acre,  Deputy  Leréia,  President  of 
the  External 
Relations  Committee  of  the  Chamber  of  Deputies  of 
the  Brazilian  Congress,  and  Deputy  Geraldo  Resende 
from  Mato  Grosso  do  Sul,  for  being  here  with  us  this 
afternoon. 

I would like to thank the President for convening 
this  joint  debate  on  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD)  and  on  the  Decade  to  Roll 
of 
this  meeting  of 
to  carry 
presence 
forward 
2 

11-54043 
of 
domestic  markets, 


Back  Malaria  in  Developing  Countries.  This  plenary 
meeting is an important opportunity for us to reaffirm 
our  support  for  two  initiatives  that  are  central  to  the 
achievement of the internationally agreed development 
goals in Africa, including the Millennium Development 
Goals. 

As we celebrate the tenth anniversary of NEPAD, 
it  is  becoming  clear  that  Africa  is  undergoing  a 
profound economic, social and political transformation. 
the  past  decade,  Africa  achieved  rates  of 
Over 
economic  growth  significantly  above 
the  world 
average. In fact, six of the 10 fastest-growing countries 
in  the  world  are  on  the  African  continent.  Between 
2000  and  2010,  sub-Saharan Africa  grew  5.7 per  cent 
annually, on average, compared to 2.4 per cent during 
the two previous decades. 
Economic  growth  has  been  accompanied  by  the 

expansion 
increasing 
urbanization,  and  investment  in  social  and  human 
capital  and  infrastructure.  The  growing  diversification 
and  resilience  of  African  economies  was  decisive  in 
their  rapid  recovery  from  the  financial  and  economic 
crisis  in  2008.  Yet  many  challenges  still  remain.  The 
world  economy  once  again  faces  renewed  uncertainty, 
and  many  African  countries  depend  largely  on  basic 
commodities for their economic well-being. 

to  Africa’s 
economic,  social  and  political  development.  Based  on 
the  principles  of  national  ownership  and  leadership, 
NEPAD can count on our full and enthusiastic support 
for  the  effective  framework  it  offers  for  cooperation 
and  development,  rooted  in  African  perspectives  and 
African priorities. 

the  past  10  years,  Brazil  has  been 
increasingly engaged with Africa. Culminating in 2011 
with  its  recognition  of  the  new  State  of  South  Sudan, 
Brazil has now established diplomatic relations with all 
54  countries  of Africa.  In  recognition  of  our  growing 
partnership with Africa, we have also greatly expanded 
our  diplomatic  network  on  the  continent,  opening 
19 embassies  in  the  past  10  years,  for  a  total  of 
37 missions 
the  Brazilian 
parliamentarians who are here today have been of great 
help  and  understanding  in  enabling  us  to  reach  this 
level of representation. 

The  Africa-South  America  Summit  process  has 
also  played  a  crucial  role  in  fostering  closer  dialogue 
and  understanding  between  our  regions  and  peoples. 
Brazil  remains  fully  committed 
that  context, 
today.  In 
Over 
11-54043 

3 
in 
A/66/PV.33
in 
Brazil  fully  supports 
Bilateral economic ties between Brazil and Africa have 
also prospered. In particular, trade between Brazil and 
Africa  increased  significantly  over  the  past  decade, 
from  approximately  $4.2  billion  in  2000  to  more  than 
$20 billion in 2010. We have also expanded investment 
in several countries on the continent, particularly in the 
construction,  mining,  energy  and 
transportation 
sectors.  Brazil  looks  forward  to  increasing  its  air  and 
sea  connections  to Africa,  with  a  view  to  establishing 
the  transportation  links  necessary  for  supporting  a 
diversified trade and investment relationship. 

the  sectoral  priorities 
established  by  NEPAD.  In  recognition  of  the  priority 
role  of  agricultural  and  rural  development  for  food 
security  and  poverty  eradication,  we  have  sought  to 
work  with  African  partner  countries  to  develop  joint 
initiatives 
this  area.  Since  2002,  Brazil  has 
concluded more than 50 cooperation agreements in the 
area of agriculture with 18 African countries, including 
Algeria,  Angola,  Cape  Verde,  Cameroon,  Ghana, 
Guinea-Bissau,  Mozambique,  Sao  Tome  and  Principe, 
Senegal,  Tanzania  and  Tunisia.  In  2010,  we  were 
pleased to host 45 African countries at the first Brazil-
Africa  Dialogue  on  Food  Security,  the  Fight  Against 
Hunger, and Rural Development. 

The  Brazilian Agricultural  Research  Corporation  — 
the State company Embrapa — has opened an office in 
Ghana, with a view to supporting the technological and 
productive  improvement  of  savanna  agriculture  in 
Africa.  The  office  has  a  comprehensive  collection  of 
plant  and  animal  varieties,  as  well  as  key  data  and 
know-how,  adapted  to  tropical  agriculture.  It  has 
provided assistance to over 30 countries in the region. 
As  a  rule,  the  cooperation  projects  aim  to  transfer 
skills, build local capacity and empower local workers, 
with  the  full  engagement  and  ownership  of  African 
Governments. 
As  a  country  afflicted  by  malaria,  Brazil  is 

committed 
international 
community  and  other  developing  countries,  especially 
African countries, to rid the world of that disease. 

At  the  bilateral  level,  we  have  developed  joint 
programmes  for  the  prevention  and  control  of  malaria 
with a number of African countries so as to strengthen 
national  health  systems,  particularly  with  regard  to 
monitoring 
also 
implemented 
training  and  capacity-
building in order to prevent and control the disease.  
epidemiology.  We  have 
and 
initiatives 
to  working  with 
the 

community 
international 
A/66/PV.33 


At  the  multilateral  level,  we  participate  in  the 
Roll  Back  Malaria  Partnership,  the  International  Drug 
Purchase Facility and the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, 
Tuberculosis and Malaria, among others efforts. Based 
on  our  national  experience,  we  believe  that  it  is 
possible  to  reduce  the  number  of  cases  by  expanding 
health-care  services  and  integrating  control  and  care 
activities. 

has  made 
The 
significant progress in the past decade in the pursuit of 
the  goals  to  achieve  universal  coverage  of  malaria 
prevention and treatment by 2010 and to reduce global 
malaria deaths to near zero preventable deaths by 2015. 
At  this  stage,  it  is  clear  that  it  may  be  difficult  to 
achieve the agreed goals unless donors fully meet their 
development assistance commitments, particularly with 
regard  to  the  Gleneagles  targets  for  doubling  aid  for 
Africa. 

In  addition  to  traditional  prevention  strategies, 
such  as  the  use  of  insecticide-treated  nets  and  indoor 
residual spraying, national Governments should be able 
to count on the support of the international community 
to implement mechanisms to ensure universal access to 
free  or  affordable  medicines  for  the  treatment  of 
malaria for those who are already affected, making full 
use of the flexibilities in the Trade-Related Aspects of 
Intellectual  Property  Rights  (TRIPS)  Agreement,  in 
accordance  with  the  Doha  Declaration  on  the  TRIPS 
Agreement and Public Health. 

fully 
committed  to  further  strengthening  the  prevention  and 
control  of  malaria  in  order  to  maintain  a  sustained 
reduction  of  cases  of  infection,  especially  in  the  most 
vulnerable areas of the Amazon region. To that end, we 
have  launched  our  national  programme  for  malaria 
control,  which  aims  to  reduce  by  50  per  cent  the 
number  of  cases  of  malaria  in  the  municipalities 
responsible for the majority of the infections registered 
in Brazil. 
Mr. Laseinde (Nigeria): My delegation wishes to 

express  its  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General  for 
his  reports  contained  in  documents  A/66/202  and 
A/66/214, as well as for the organization of this debate. 

Nigeria associates itself with the statement made 
at  the  32nd  plenary  meeting  by  the  representative  of 
Kenya on behalf of the African Group. 
The  Brazilian  Government 
remains 
and 
the 
its 
community, 
international 
empowerment  of  women 
congratulates  NEPAD  on 
The  role  that  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 

the  United 
Development  (NEPAD),  supported  by 
Nations 
in 
transforming  and  improving  the  well-being  of  the 
citizens  on  the  continent  of Africa,  particularly  in  the 
areas  of  democratic  governance,  domestic  resource 
mobilization, 
improved  economic  growth,  poverty 
eradication,  the  promotion  of  sustainable  growth  and 
the 
though  building 
partnerships at the country, regional and global levels, 
can  never  be  overemphasized.  In  that  regard,  my 
delegation 
tenth 
anniversary,  which  was  marked  here  at  the  United 
Nations last Friday.  

The  anniversary  is  worth  celebrating  in  view  of 
the  strong  economic  growth  and  improvement  in 
socio-economic  indicators  that  have  been  experienced 
during the period under review. Sub-Saharan Africa  is 
one  of  the  few  regions  of  the  world  to  show  great 
resilience in the face of the global economic crisis.  

While  recovering  from  the  impact  of  the  global 
economic crisis that affected the international financial 
markets in 2008, many developing countries, including 
those  in  Africa,  have  embarked  on  macroeconomic 
reform  programmes  capable  of  transforming  their 
economies 
financial 
institutions.  Those  efforts  have  led  to  lower  rates  of 
inflation  and  strong  gross  domestic  product  (GDP) 
growth.  

In addition, the African Peer Review Mechanism 
(APRM)  is  progressing  gradually.  So  far,  30  States 
members  of  the  African  Union  have  acceded  to  the 
APRM;  14  countries  have  completed  the  first  review 
process,  and  are  being  peer  reviewed  by  the  APRM 
Forum; while two countries have also received country 
peer-review missions and are slated for peer review in 
January 2012. 

The APRM process has created awareness among 
States,  especially  in  the  understanding  of  the  nexus 
between 
has 
consequently  been  a  significant  reduction  of  political 
tension  and  violence  within  and  between  African 
States.  The  internationally  acclaimed  free  and  fair 
elections  in  Nigeria,  the  successful  referendum  in  the 
Sudan,  the  adoption  of  a  new  Constitution  in  Kenya 
and  the  transitions  in  Guinea  and  Niger  are  changing 
the political space in Africa for the better. 
development.  There 
strengthening 
peace 
and 
and 
their 
4 

11-54043 
to 
reforms 
in  order 
to  broaden 



Nigeria’s  current  economic  policies  are  focused 
on  addressing  key  infrastructural  shortcomings  as  a 
crucial element in setting the stage for long-term stable 
growth  in  an  effort  to  break  the  past  30  years  of 
uncontrollable  boom-and-bust  cycles.  Our  GDP  grew 
from 7.0 per cent in 2009 to an estimated 8.1 per cent 
in 2010. The robust growth in 2010, in the aftermath of 
the  global  financial  and  economic  crisis,  underscores 
the  resilience  of  the  Nigerian  economy.  Medium-term 
prospects  are  also  bright,  with  real  GDP  growth 
projected to remain strong and stable at 6.9 per cent in 
2011 and 6.7 per cent in 2012.  
Medium-  to  long-term  prospects  will  require 

advance 
addressing  key 
the 
infrastructure  development  and 
through  enhanced  private-sector 
economic  base 
participation.  The  Nigerian  Government  is  therefore 
pursuing a transformation  agenda as a strategic policy 
thrust  to  address  the  developmental  needs  and  the 
challenges  of  the  future.  Indeed,  there  is  a  renewed 
sense of optimism and belief in our ability to create a 
new  Nigeria  on  the  principles  of  personal  freedom, 
democracy, good governance and the rule of law. 

In  spite  of  the  progress  in  the  political  and 
economic  sectors  on  the  African  continent,  there  are 
still challenges in the areas of armed conflict, fragility 
and erosion of the rule of law and chronic poverty, with 
severe implications for women and children. Similarly, 
reports  of  human  rights  violations,  terrorist  attacks, 
trafficking  in  small  arms  and  light  weapons,  the 
scourge  of  piracy  and  unresolved  electoral  issues 
abound. The time has come for the United Nations and 
the  international  community  to  focus  attention  on  the 
root  causes  of  those  conflicts  and  proffer  enduring 
solutions. 

My delegation believes that cultivating peace and 
fulfilling the aims of Chapter VI of the United Nations 
Charter 
identification  of,  and 
appropriate intervention in, conflict situations, in order 
to build confidence and trust and preclude the eruption 
of violence between opposing parties. Our goal should 
always  be  to  present  the  peaceful  alternative  as  a  less 
costly  and  more  effective  way  of  achieving  political 
and social objectives. 

In addition to other traditional tools of preventive 
diplomacy,  democracy  and  good  governance  can  be 
particularly important in building a just, equitable and 
inclusive  society.  By  focusing  on  mediation  as  a  tool 
the  early 
require 
A/66/PV.33
for 
to 
support 
and 
shared 
and 
further 
strengthen 
resolution, 
responsibility 
peacekeeping, 
for conflict prevention, we are able to address the real 
triggers  of  conflict.  Otherwise  we  cannot  achieve 
sustainable solutions.  
The African  Union  has  sufficiently  demonstrated 

the  political  will  for  peaceful  resolution  of 
the 
continent’s  problems.  It  has  served  as  a  veritable 
platform  to  articulate  the  continent’s  agenda.  The 
United Nations, and the Security Council in particular, 
has  been  a  worthy  partner  of  Africa,  especially  in 
conflict 
post-conflict 
peacebuilding  and  even  economic  reconstruction.  The 
African  Union’s  efforts  have  proved  that  regional 
organizations  are  uniquely  placed  to  tackle  threats  to 
regional peace and security.  

However, in view of recent challenges, there is a 
need 
consolidate 
collaboration and partnership in the areas of peace and 
development  between  the  secretariats  of  the  United 
Nations Security Council and the African Union Peace 
and Security Council. That partnership should continue 
to be based on mutual trust and respect, on the basis of 
mutual 
and 
commitment.  It  should  aim  to  address  the  main 
constraints  on  Africa’s 
and 
development.  It  is  further  hoped  that,  with  increased 
consultations between the two bodies, they will be able 
to  develop  a  robust  regional  structure  for  peace  and 
security. 

Nigeria therefore calls for support for the African 
Union  architecture  and  its  full  operationalization, 
including the implementation of the Framework for the 
Ten-Year  Capacity-Building  Programme 
the 
African Union. In addition, there is a need for a robust 
special  fund  for  the African  Union,  which  will  ensure 
sustainable, 
flexible  and  predictable  funding  for 
peacekeeping  operations  in Africa.  It  will  also  enable 
the  continent  to  overcome  the  perennial  problem  of 
sustaining peacekeeping operations, which are marked 
by a lack of political will, insufficient funding, lack of 
military  hardware,  infrastructure  and  logistics  and 
delay in deployment. 

My delegation holds the view that the envisaged 
relationship  should  be  strengthened  to  support  actions 
to  foster  the  pacific  settlement  of  disputes.  We  must, 
however,  also  focus  on  institutional  capacity-building 
and  adequate  resource  mobilization  for  sustainable 
that  conflict-prevention 
development.  We  believe 
measures 
are 
peacebuilding  mechanisms 
economic  growth 
and 
11-54043 

5 

the 
continent 
challenges  on 
than  90  per  cent  of 
and  other  bilateral  donors, 
A/66/PV.33 

fundamental to the resolution of conflict on the African 
continent. 

remain 
The 
formidable.  Whereas  we  have  made  considerable 
progress  in  the  fight  against  HIV  and  AIDS,  malaria 
and non-communicable diseases are on the increase. In 
spite  of  the  political  momentum  generated  at  the 
African Summit on Roll Back Malaria, held in Abuja in 
April  2000,  malaria  continues  to  kill  millions  of 
children. It is regrettable that, in spite of the enormous 
human,  financial  and  material  resources  deployed  by 
Governments and non-governmental organizations over 
the  past  10  years,  a  child  still  dies  every  30  seconds 
from malaria in Africa.  

the 
In  Nigeria  more 
population  is  still  at  risk  of  the  disease.  More  than 
52 per  cent  of  them  are  children.  The  eradication  of 
malaria  should  be  a  top  priority  on  the  international 
agenda.  We  recognize  and  commend  the  contribution 
of  the  Global  Fund  to  fight  AIDS,  Tuberculosis  and 
Malaria 
charitable 
organizations  and  foundations  in  the  fight  against 
malaria. But a lot more needs to be done if the goal of 
halving  deaths  from  malaria  is  to  be  achieved  in  the 
near future.  

I  assure  the Assembly  that  we  in Africa  are  not 
resting  on  our  horse  and  that  we  are  marshalling 
sustainable  development  strategies  at  the  national, 
subregional  and  regional  levels  in  order  to  take 
responsibility  for  our  own  development  within  the 
confines of available resources. Democracy, the rule of 
law, good governance, transparency and accountability, 
respect for human rights, peer review mechanisms and 
peaceful,  democratic  means  of  changing  Governments 
are taking firm root in Africa.  

Of course, we have challenges of an endogenous 
nature as well, such as climate change, an unfavourable 
international  trade  system  and  endemic  diseases,  such 
as HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis, which impede 
our  development  efforts.  To  address  those  problems 
holistically, we need the collaboration and commitment 
of our development partners, as well as the support of 
the United Nations and the international community.  

Nigeria stands ready to share its experience with 
other  developing  countries  where  such  is  needed.  We 
have  strong  faith  that  despite  the  challenges  that  face 
us  in Africa  as  a  result  of  the  global  economic  crisis, 
this  body  will  continue  to  address  them  until  a  secure 
in 
progress 
implementation 
Mr.  Balé  (Congo)  (spoke 
and more sustainable and just global economic order is 
achieved. 

in  French):  My 
delegation  is  taking  the  floor  under  sub-item  (a)  of 
agenda item 63, entitled “New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development: 
and 
international support”.  

Africa  has  seen  many  initiatives  and  proposed 
development  solutions  that  never  came  to  fruition. 
After  numerous  setbacks  and  disappointed  hopes, 
African  heads  of  State  and  Government,  stirred  by  a 
common  vision  of  the  continent’s  development,  in 
2001  adopted 
the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development  (NEPAD).  In  doing  so,  they  took  upon 
themselves  the  challenges  of  regional  integration, 
accelerated  growth,  sustainable  development, 
the 
eradication of poverty and  the integration of Africa in 
the globalization process.  
Following a decade marked by a bold awareness-

raising  campaign,  aimed  especially  at Africans  taking 
ownership  of  it  and  to  finally  spur  it  into  action,  it 
seems to us that the time is right, at this symbolic tenth 
anniversary, to take a critical look back at the process 
of its launching, assess the road travelled and plot the 
major  courses  of  action  remaining  to  be  taken  to 
accelerate its realization. 
institutions,  my 

delegation is pleased to highlight the efforts undertaken 
the  African  Peer  Review 
by 
Mechanism 
the  process  of  States’ 
ownership of the new rules on self-assessment for good 
governance,  based  on  the  concepts  of  democracy  and 
political  governance;  economic  governance  and 
management;  corporate  governance  and  socio-economic 
development.  

a  memorandum  of 
Liberia’s 
understanding at the end of the fourteenth forum of the 
heads  of  State  and  Government  of  the APRM,  held  in 
Addis Ababa on 29 January, expanded its membership 
to  30  African  States,  all  resolutely  committed  to  the 
path of good governance. 

Early  on,  Congo  gauged  the  importance  of 
governance  for  its  development.  That  is  why  my 
country  was  among  the  very  first  States  to  join  that 
self-assessment  and  evaluation  process  as  soon  as  it 
was launched in 2003. 
terms  of  strengthening 
the  secretariat  of 
signing  of 
In 
(APRM) 
in 
6 

11-54043 
those 
For  African  countries, 



At  a  time  when  uncertainty  looms  over  the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  by  many  African  countries’  by  2015,  Congo 
welcomes  the  involvement  of  NEPAD  in  efforts  to 
achieve  the  MDGs  in  Africa  as  stressed  by  the 
Secretary-General’s 2011 report assessing the progress 
made by Africa in attaining the MDGs. That is clearly 
an indication  of strong political  will  among our heads 
of  State  and  Government. This  is  also  a  case  for  their 
unwavering  commitment  to  work  to  accelerate  the 
implementation of NEPAD, especially in priority areas. 

Such  a  commitment  of  course  requires  support 
from the international community. Congo continues to 
honour  its  commitment  to  the  implementation  of 
NEPAD.  From  13  to  15  September  in  Brazzaville,  we 
organized  a  workshop  on  information  and  raising 
public  awareness  about  NEPAD  programmes  and 
projects, with special emphasis on progress in priority 
infrastructure  projects  in  the  context  of  regional  and 
subregional integration. 

infrastructure 
projects  comprise  the  cornerstone  of  socio-economic 
development.  Among  such 
infrastructure  projects, 
which are tasked with linking together the countries of 
the  subregion  —  Congo  with  Cameroon,  Congo  with 
Gabon and Congo with the Central African Republic — 
I  would  especially  like  to  highlight  the  hallmark 
subregional  integration  project  to  establish  a  road-rail 
bridge  over  the  Congo  River  to  link  Brazzaville  and 
Kinshasa. 

A study is to be carried out on the road-rail bridge 
project over the Congo River and the extension of the 
Kinshasa-Hebo  railway.  Congo  and  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  have  secured  a  $7.95  million 
grant from the African Development Bank to fund the 
study.  The  Economic  and  Monetary  Community  of 
Central  Africa,  which  was  designated  as 
the 
implementing  authority,  will  be  supported  in  those 
efforts  by  a  joint  technical  committee  comprised  of 
experts from both countries and from ECCAS. The cost 
of the study totals approximately €6,615,200.  

As  members  of  the Assembly  are  aware,  energy 
plays  a  decisive  role  in  any  development  process. 
Energy  infrastructure  is  ultimately  one  of  the  key 
drivers  of  integration  and  economic  growth  on  our 
continent. In that regard, Central Africa has substantial 
hydropower  potential,  which  will  foster  cross-border 
electricity  interlinkages  based  on  a  master  plan  on 
A/66/PV.33
for 
increased 
private 
is 
to  address 
through  capacity-building 
subregional  energy,  on  which  a  study  is  already 
available. 

The implementation of these cornerstone projects 
in  Central  Africa  will  convey  the  shared  will  of  the 
Governments  of  the  countries  of  the  subregion  to 
transform  NEPAD  into  a  dynamic  mechanism  for 
integration and development. The strategic framework, 
whose  aim 
the  crucial  problems 
hampering  the  continent’s  development,  has  enabled 
African  countries  to  record  encouraging  progress  in 
key  areas  such  as  peace  and  security,  sustainable 
development,  new  information  and  telecommunication 
technologies,  health,  education  and, 
in  particular, 
agriculture,  which  is  considered  the  most  important 
subsector  in  order  to  ensure  accelerated  economic 
growth in the region through a detailed programme on 
agricultural development in Africa. 

It is clear that even greater efforts must be made, 
especially 
regional 
economic  communities, 
improving  communication 
between  NEPAD  and  regional  economic  communities, 
resource-mobilization, 
sector 
investment  and  knowledge  and  the  efficient  use  of 
support  sources,  including  ownership  of  NEPAD  by 
populations.  With  that  in  mind,  Congo  has  set  up  a 
national  coordinating  structure  for  NEPAD  that  is 
tasked  with  tracking  the  implementation  of  NEPAD 
projects  and  programmes  nationally  to  ensure  that 
those  are  firmly  rooted  in  the  daily  concerns  of  the 
Government. 

The  tenth  anniversary  of  NEPAD  must  serve  to 
ensure African leadership of NEPAD’s implementation. 
However,  we  must  acknowledge  that  prior  years  have 
been  witness  to African  countries’  pledging  resolutely 
to implement NEPAD. But they have also experienced 
frustration of their efforts due to successive crises and 
weak  partnerships  that  have  not  always  fulfilled  their 
promises. 

The  tenth  anniversary  should  also  serve  as  an 
opportunity to again recall the commitment of African 
countries  to  take  in  hand  their  destinies  collectively 
and 
their  respective 
Governments  to  further  step  up  their  efforts.  At  the 
same time, we are duty-bound to recall that NEPAD is 
also the new partnership that Africa has sealed for the 
rest  of  the  world.  The  successful  culmination  of  our 
efforts  will  depend,  to  a  large  extent,  on  a  more 
dynamic  and  more  sincere  partnership,  with  a  view  to 
individually,  and 
to  prompt 
11-54043 

7 

Mr. 
Imakando
itself  with 
My  delegation  also  aligns 
A/66/PV.33 

removing the hurdles and  expediting progress towards 
attainment of NEPAD’s objectives. 

(Zambia):  The  Zambian 
delegation  has  the  honour  to  address  the  General 
Assembly  on  the  subject  of  the  2001-2010  Decade  to 
Roll  Back  Malaria 
in  Developing  Countries, 
Particularly  in Africa.  Zambia  notes  with  appreciation 
the  report  of  the  World  Health  Organization  in  that 
regard  (see  A/66/169),  which  my  delegation  found 
useful. 
the 

statement delivered this morning by the representative 
of Kenya on behalf of the African Group. 

As  the  immediate  past-Chair  of  the  Roll  Back 
Malaria  Partnership  Board,  we  wish  to  reiterate  that 
malaria  remains  a  major  public  health  challenge  in 
many  African  countries,  especially  among  children 
under  the  age  of  five  years,  pregnant  women  and 
vulnerable members of society. 

In  2007,  Zambia  recorded  4.3  million  cases  of 
malaria,  with  over  6,000  deaths  attributed  to  the 
disease.  In  addition  to  its  direct  health  impact,  such  a 
high  incidence  of  malaria  causes  a  severe  social  and 
economic  burden  on  individuals  and  households,  and 
indeed  on  communities  at 
large.  The  Zambian 
Government  has  therefore  prioritized  malaria  in  its 
sixth  national  development  plan,  which  covers  the 
period 2011 to 2015, in line with the Abuja Declaration 
to  Roll  Back  Malaria  in  Africa  and  the  Roll  Back 
Malaria targets.  

Some  of  the  measures  that  Zambia  has  put  in 
place  to  combat  this  scourge  include  eliminating, 
through  an  act  of  Parliament,  taxation  on  malaria 
control  tools,  including  mosquito  nets  and  relevant 
insecticides;  banning  monotherapy  treatments  using 
chloroquine 
artemisinin-based 
combination  therapies;  increasing  the  range  of  indoor 
residual  spraying  from  five  districts 
to 
in  2010,  covering  over  1  million 
54 districts 
households; and scaling up the provision, from 2007 to 
2010,  of  insecticide-treated  nets  to  over  6  million 
people. 
We  are  also  providing  intermittent  presumptive 

treatment 
to  all  pregnant  women  as  a  way  of 
preventing  malaria  during  pregnancy;  training  health-
care personnel in the proper diagnosis and treatment of 
malaria,  using  rapid  diagnostic  tests  and  artemisinin-
promoting 
in  2003 
and 
some 
in 
interventions 
therapies;  and 
the  disbursement  of 
cooperating  partners, 
strengthening 
through  capacity-
based  combination 
community-based 
building for malaria case management. 

As  a  result  of  those  high-impact  interventions 
that  the  Zambian  Government,  in  collaboration  with 
international  cooperating  partners,  has  put  in  place, 
malaria deaths were reduced by 60 per cent during the 
Decade to Roll Back Malaria.  

However,  despite  the  various  interventions  to 
prevent  malaria,  a  number  of  challenges  still  remain. 
Those  include  the  erratic  disbursement  of  committed 
funds  by 
lengthy 
procedures 
funds,  and 
inadequate human resources, among others. 
In  concluding  my  remarks,  I  wish  to  take  this 

opportunity to call upon the international community to 
continue  to  extend  assistance  to  Zambia  in  the  fight 
against malaria. 
Mr.  Swe  (Myanmar):  At  the  outset,  I  wish  to 

congratulate  the  President  on  his  assumption  of  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth 
session. We pledge our full support and cooperation to 
him in ensuring a fruitful conclusion to the session. 

Myanmar  associates  itself  with  the  statement 
made this morning by our colleague from the Republic 
of Indonesia on behalf of the Association of Southeast 
Asian Nations (ASEAN). 

My delegation also wishes to thank the Secretary-
General  for  his  insightful  and  comprehensive  reports 
(A/66/202 and A/66/214) on agenda item 63. 
Today, Africa  faces  both  great  opportunities  and 

grave  challenges 
its  pursuit  of  peace  and 
development. To tackle the challenges faced by Africa, 
we  are  of  the  view  that  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD)  can  be  an  important 
to  address  poverty  and  underdevelopment 
tool 
throughout 
the  African  continent,  as  well  as  a 
collective  vision  and  a  strategic  socio-economic 
development 
the 
launching  of  NEPAD,  10  years  ago, African  countries 
in  such  areas  as 
have  achieved  great  progress 
infrastructure,  agriculture,  health,  education, 
the 
environment,  tourism,  science  and  technology  and 
information and telecommunications technologies, with 
the vigorous support of the international community. 
for  Africa.  Since 
framework 
in 
8 

11-54043 
they 
expand 
the  assistance 



Africa  has  rebounded  from  the  global  economic 
and financial crisis despite the slowdown in the pace of 
the  global  economic  recovery.  We  are  happy  to  note 
that average economic growth in Africa between 2002 
to  2010  was  an  impressive  5.5  per  cent.  However, 
Africa, 
like  no  other  continent,  remains  heavily 
affected by the challenges of climate change and food 
security.  We  also  know  that  Africa  still  lags  behind 
other  regions  with  regard  to  progress  in  achieving  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), in particular 
those related to child and maternal mortality and access 
to adequate sanitation and safe drinking water. 

In  that  regard,  we  share  the  view  that  the 
international community should increase its support for 
Africa  and  help  it  attain  greater  progress  in  the 
implementation  of  NEPAD.  In  order 
to  promote 
stability  and  prosperity  in  Africa,  the  international 
community  should  deliver 
it  has 
committed to provide, in time and with respect for the 
right  of  self-determination  of  African  countries. 
should  build  new  and  broad 
Moreover, 
partnerships, 
cooperation, 
strengthen the role of international bodies and mobilize 
innovative financing. 

Myanmar  and  Africa  have  a  deep-rooted 
traditional  relationship  and  friendship.  As  one  of  the 
organizers  of 
the  historic  Asia-Africa  Bandung 
Conference,  Myanmar  has  always  been  committed  to 
the  cause  of  peace  and  development  on  the  continent, 
as well  as  a strong supporter  of  decolonization efforts 
on the part of African countries. 
As  a  member  of ASEAN,  Myanmar  confirms  its 

to  continue  building  synergies  and 
commitment 
friendship  with  Africa  under 
framework  of 
ASEAN —  not  only  through  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s Development but also the New Asian-African 
Strategic  Partnership.  Myanmar  also  recognizes  the 
Comprehensive  Africa  Agriculture  Development 
Programme  and  the  Africa  Peer  Review  Mechanism, 
innovative 
two  of  NEPAD’s 
initiatives  aimed  at 
promoting  good  governance 
the 
and 
conditions for broad-based economic growth. 

In  addition,  Myanmar  firmly  believes  that  the 
Peace  Building  Commission  can  assist  African 
countries emerging from conflict in moving forward to 
peacebuilding  efforts  by  encouraging  and  supporting 
home-based 
youth 
programmes, 
South-South 
including 
on 
the 
creating 
A/66/PV.33
report 
entitled 
for  Africa’s  Development: 
employment,  vocational  training  and  education,  in 
order to achieve stability and security in Africa. 

It  is  our  firm  conviction  that  the  efforts  of  the 
people of Africa for economic revitalization and social 
progress  should  be  given  stronger  support  from  the 
United  Nations,  development  partners  and 
the 
international  community  through  strengthening  their 
work  and  priorities  on  assisting  African  countries. 
Myanmar wishes to reiterate its solidarity with African 
countries in calling for the international community to 
enhance  its  contribution  to  the  cause  of  peace  and 
development in Africa. 
Mr.  Sul  Kyung-hoon  (Republic  of  Korea): 

Africa’s  development  is  the  key  to  promoting  global 
peace and prosperity on a sustainable basis. Embracing 
Africa in the process of political, economic and social 
development will therefore be a core challenge for the 
international community as a whole. 
In  that  regard,  the  Republic  of  Korea  welcomes 

“New 
Secretary-General’s 
the 
Partnership 
ninth 
consolidated  progress  report  on  implementation  and 
international  support”  (A/66/202).  We  are  very  much 
encouraged  by  the  report’s  assessment  that Africa  has 
made  noticeable  progress 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  However, 
the  report  also  indicates  that  performance  across 
countries and across MDG targets still remains uneven. 
It is crucial, therefore, that the international community 
reinvigorate its effort for all MDGs to be achieved by 
2015  by  broadening  partnerships  with  development 
partners. 

In  that  respect,  we  believe  that  this  year’s  tenth 
anniversary of the adoption of the flagship programme 
of the African Union will carry particular significance. 
While warmly welcoming that occasion, my delegation 
wishes  to  reiterate  that  the  Korean  Government  is 
ready to work closely with our partners in the region in 
strengthening our development cooperation. 

As  a  part  of  our  own  efforts,  the  Republic  of 
Korea  organized  the  second  Korea-Africa  Forum  in 
2009, where we announced our commitment to double 
our official development assistance to Africa by 2012, 
compared  with  the  2008  figures.  At  the  Forum,  the 
Republic  of  Korea  also  reaffirmed  its  commitment  to 
enhancing  its  partnership  with  Africa  in  such  diverse 
fields  as  green  growth,  climate  change,  food  security, 
governance  and  capacity-building  based  on  Korea’s 
towards  achieving 
11-54043 

9 

to  provide  $5.4  million 
A/66/PV.33 

development  experience.  More  recently,  the  Korean 
Government  decided 
in 
humanitarian  assistance  to  countries  in  the  Horn  of 
Africa, which are suffering from severe drought and a 
dire food crisis. An additional $10 million in assistance 
will follow to help to strengthen development capacity 
in that region. 

Next  year,  we  will  host  the  third  round  of  the 
Korea-Africa Forum where we will assess the progress 
made  in  our  efforts  and  commitments.  We  sincerely 
hope that this continuous partnership will complement 
the  progress  made  on  the  occasion  of  the  tenth 
anniversary  of 
the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development. We are confident that, through this close 
cooperation,  we  can  realign  ourselves  with  Africa’s 
development needs and priorities. 

In order to obtain more development results from 
our  development  cooperation  with  Africa,  we  believe 
to  such 
that  partnerships  should  not  be 
limited 
traditional  players  as  donor  countries, 
recipient 
countries  and 
international  organizations.  Instead, 
further  efforts  are  needed  to  engage,  in  our  pursuit  of 
African  development,  more  diverse  development 
partners,  including  emerging  donors,  civil  society, 
private foundations and business sectors. 

In  that  regard,  my  delegation  wishes  to  draw 
attention to the upcoming fourth High-level Forum on 
Aid  Effectiveness,  to  be  held  in  November  in  Busan. 
The  Busan  Forum  is  expected  to  provide  an  excellent 
platform  to  address  this  issue.  My  country  will  make 
an  extra  effort  to  seek  to  build  more  inclusive  and 
broader  partnerships  by  engaging  all  actors 
in 
development  cooperation  and  by  embracing  diverse 
approaches to development. We will make every effort 
to  reflect  the  concerns  of  the  African  region  in  the 
Forum. 

Before  I  conclude,  I  should  like  to  reaffirm  our 
belief  that  Africa  holds  great  potential  to  become  a 
driving  force  for  global  economic  growth.  It  is  in  our 
common  interest,  therefore,  to  help  Africa  to  achieve 
sustainable development through enhanced partnership. 
I  wish  to  reiterate  that  the  Republic  of  Korea  will 
remain  fully  committed  to  closely  working  with  our 
partners in Africa in that process. 

Mr. Loulichki (Morocco) (spoke in French): My 
delegation  welcomes  the  opportunity  to  take  part  in 
today’s  debate,  which  is  so  important  for  the  African 
continent.  We  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  the 
In  addition 
to 
in 
implemented 
to 
face  hurdles 
countries  have 
the  statement  made  by 
quality  of  his  reports  on  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s Development (A/66/202 and A/66/214). 

the 
representative  of  Kenya  on  behalf  of  the  African 
Group, which of course my delegation fully supports, I 
would like to add the following remarks. 
Less  than  five  years  before  the  deadline  for 

achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  the 
African  continent  continues 
in 
achieving  those  Goals.  Today’s  debate  provides  an 
opportunity  to  discuss  the  various  initiatives  and 
approaches that will enable the continent to address the 
challenges of sustainable and human development.  
No  one  can  deny  the  progress  made  by  the 

terms  of  conflict 
African  continent,  primarily 
resolution  and  the  return  to  stability,  without  which 
sustainable development would be nothing but a distant 
and  always  elusive  goal.  Nor  can  anyone  deny  that 
African 
ambitious 
policies,  which  have  enabled  us  to  consolidate  our 
democratic  and  macroeconomic  achievements  and 
good governance practices. 
In geo-economic terms, with its abundant mining, 

mineral  and  energy 
its 
considerable  human  potential,  Africa  is  playing  an 
increasingly strategic role as a key player in the global 
economy.  

The  average  growth  rate  of  4.9  per  cent  in  2010 
certainly  surpassed  that  of  2009,  estimated  at  3.1  per 
cent.  Nevertheless,  the  continent  has  yet  to  reach  the 
threshold  growth  rate  of  7  per  cent  required  to  ensure 
sustainable, comprehensive and inclusive development, 
as  well  as  to  improve  the  lives  of  its  citizens  and 
achieve its development goals.  

We must therefore think about how to give much-
needed impetus to the collective initiatives and actions 
of  Africa  and 
the 
multilateral,  regional  and  subregional  levels.  This 
would  facilitate  efforts  to  foster  the  growth  and  the 
sustainable and human development of the continent. 

The  situation  that  Africa  is  facing,  which  is 
marked by a series of social, economic and food crises, 
combined  with  numerous  security  and  environmental 
challenges,  requires  a  deeper  commitment  by Africa’s 
development partner countries. 
its  development  partners  at 
resources,  along  with 
10 

11-54043 
assistance 
and 
the  South 
fulfilment  of 
that  can  drive 



In  view  of  the  financial  crisis  and  the  resulting 
budget  constraints  adopted  in  many  countries,  official 
development 
the 
commitments  made  by  the  Group  of  Eight  have  taken 
on vital importance for African countries, in particular 
the least developed among them. We therefore urge the 
international  community  to  keep  its  promises  and  to 
provide  further  support  to  the  African  continent  by 
making it a central priority of programmes designed to 
achieve the Millennium Development Goals. 

At  the  same  time,  we  must  step  up  South-South 
cooperation, a significant vehicle for Africa’s economic 
and  social  development,  by  boosting 
trade  and 
optimizing  partnerships.  In  that  respect,  the  initiative 
of  emerging  countries  to  forge  specific  and  targeted 
partnerships with Africa will give decisive momentum 
to South-South cooperation. Efforts must also be made 
to  identify  innovative  cooperation  mechanisms  among 
the  countries  of 
their 
development and increase their prosperity. 
Moreover, regional integration continues to be an 

excellent  means 
regional 
development  efforts.  It  is,  furthermore,  a  prerequisite 
for  creating  the  synergies  necessary  to  ensure  the 
proper and optimal use of individual capacities for the 
common good. 

The  role  of  the  private  sector  as  a  catalyst  for 
development in Africa is clear. Growing and committed 
private-sector  involvement  in  African  development 
would  not  only  mobilize  the  resources  necessary  for 
various  development  programmes,  but  also  build 
Africa’s 
its 
competitiveness,  which  would  enable  it  to  become  a 
key  link  in  the  global  economy,  and  not  just  a  mere 
natural resource pool or a market for industrial goods. 
In  that  connection,  my  country  laments  the  lack  of 
progress  made  in  the  Doha  Round  of  negotiations, 
particularly  on  quotas  relevant  to Africa.  We  urge  the 
main  stakeholders 
to 
conclude the Doha Round. 

In terms of foreign direct investment, which is so 
crucial  to  the  development  of  the  continent,  I  wish  to 
reiterate  the  special  importance  of  convening  a  high-
level  meeting  of  the  General Assembly  on  investment 
in  Africa,  which  would  serve  as  a  tool  for  the 
development  and  economic  growth  of  the  continent. 
This proposal stems from the unfailing commitment of 
His  Majesty 
to  Africa’s 
the  King  of  Morocco 
to  accelerate 
their  efforts 
and,  more 
capitalizing 
indirectly, 
of 
on 
capacities 
A/66/PV.33
for 
and 
human 
training 
development. It takes the form of partnerships with the 
United  Nations  for  peace  and  security  in  Africa, 
assistance 
resources 
development  and  the  sharing  of  expertise  in  the  areas 
of  agriculture,  fishing,  tourism,  electricity  supply, 
water management and the fight against desertification. 
These  partnerships 
involve  various  African  and 
non-African countries. 

My country stands ready to further enhance such 
cooperation  and  to  expand  it  in  the  interest  of 
sustainable and harmonious development in Africa. 
Mr.  Nissilä  (Finland):  Sustainable  economic 

growth is one of the key elements in poverty reduction. 
In  particular,  during  the  ongoing  global  economic 
crisis,  we  have  seen  that  efforts  in Africa  to  improve 
economic performance and private sector development 
have  started 
to  bear  fruit.  In  fact,  while  many 
developed  economies  have  been  struggling  to  keep 
growth  going,  many  African  countries  have  shown 
enviable gross domestic product growth figures.  

Economic  growth,  investments  in  infrastructure, 
social  protection  systems,  and  the  promotion  of  good 
governance  and  human  rights  are  all  key  elements.  In 
developing  appropriate  social  protection  mechanisms, 
we  must  pay  particular  attention  to  the  promotion  of 
women’s  and  girls’  rights  and  to  the  promotion  of 
social  equality.  The  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD) has been one of the key players 
in those developments.  

Finland believes that the active cooperation with 
other  international  organizations  that  NEPAD  has 
engaged  in  can  further  enhance  sustainable  economic 
development  in  Africa.  The  growth  of  economic 
integration 
the 
development  of  the  continent.  The  African  economy 
has  to  be  strengthened,  diversified  and  integrated  into 
the world economy. 

Finland has been a strong supporter of the Africa 
Investment  Initiative  of  NEPAD  and  the  Organization 
for Economic Cooperation  and Development (OECD). 
In  particular,  the  Initiative  supports  a  large-scale 
programme  on  unlocking 
in 
Southern  Africa.  It  assists  members  of  the  Southern 
Africa  Development  Community  in  identifying  and 
implementing  concrete  policy  reforms  to  strengthen 
their  investment  climate.  The  programme  entails  four 
country-level  investment  reviews  and  facilitates  the 
through  regional 
sharing  of  national  experiences 
investment  potential 
important  for 
in  Africa 
is  very 
11-54043 

11 

A/66/PV.33 

forums and peer review. Zambia and Mozambique have 
started  to  assess  their  investment  regime  within  the 
framework of the programme. 

Finland currently acts as Co-Chair for the Africa 
Partnership Forum, a high-level dialogue forum for the 
Group  of  Eight,  NEPAD,  the  African  Union  and  the 
OECD.  As  a  co-Chair,  Finland  has  stressed  the 
development of Africa’s own capabilities and the issue 
of responsible investment. 

I  would  now  like  to  touch  upon  sub-item  (b)  of 
agenda  item  63,  relating  to  the  causes  of  conflict  and 
the  promotion  of  durable  peace  and  sustainable 
development  in  Africa,  as  well  as  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  excellent  report  (A/66/214). 
The report highlights a number of  crucial issues, such 
as  youth,  education  and  employment  and 
issues 
relating  to  conflict  and  natural  resources.  The  report 
also stresses the importance of more active engagement 
of  young  people  in  the  promotion  of  peace  and 
security. I should now like to take up some examples of 
how  Finland  supports  its African  partners  in  the  field 
of peace and security.  
First,  Finland  has  supported  the  strengthening  of 

the  African  Union’s  mediation  support  capacity 
through  a 
through 
development  cooperation  funds.  The  project  has 
achieved  good  results,  and  it  will  continue.  The 
purpose of this programme is to develop Africa’s own 
capabilities to prevent and resolve conflicts, including 
by  supporting  the  participation  of  women  and  by 
ensuring  adequate  consideration  of  gender  issues  in 
peace  processes.  We  would  like  to  congratulate  the 
African Union for its work in advancing the agenda on 
women, peace and security. 
Finland  also  contributed  to  the  work  of  the 

African Union High-level Implementation Panel on the 
Sudan, led by former South African President Mbeki. It 
is also important to stress the role of non-governmental 
organizations 
in  mediation  and  all  peacebuilding 
efforts.  Finland  has,  together  with  the  African  Centre 
for  the  Constructive  Resolution  of  Disputes,  a  South 
African non-governmental organization, established the 
African  Peacebuilding  Coordination  Programme.  The 
Programme  focuses  on  enhancing  coherence  and 
coordination 
the  aim  of 
promoting  local  ownership  in  peacebuilding  processes 
and  supporting  the  design  and  implementation  of 
peacebuilding policy frameworks.  
in  peacebuilding,  with 
three-year  project 
financed 
Peace 
and 
for 
security 
are  prerequisites 

We  have  also  been  a  longstanding  supporter  of 
Femmes Africa Solidarité, most recently in their work 
in  assisting  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
Rwanda  and  Burundi  in  the  preparation  of  their 
national action plans on women, peace and security. 

for 
sustainable  development. At  the  same  time,  economic 
and social  development, including the  rule of law and 
human  rights,  is  a  major  contributor  to  political 
stability and, ultimately, to peace and security. It is of 
the  utmost 
importance 
the 
for  Africa  and 
international  community 
to  strengthen  peace  and 
development, thereby allowing African countries to use 
their  resources  for  human  development  and  the  well-
being of their citizens. 
Mr.  Elyes  Lakhal  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  French): 

My delegation aligns itself with the statement delivered 
by  the  representative  of  Argentina  on  behalf  of  the 
Group  of  77  and  China  and  by  the  representative  of 
Kenya on behalf of the African Group. We would like 
to  highlight  several  issues  that Tunisia  believes  are  of 
particular importance. 
Today’s discussion is of special importance, as it 

concerns  a  number  of  matters  that  are  of  crucial 
importance  to Africa  and  marks  the  tenth  anniversary 
of  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development 
(NEPAD), following its adoption at the Organization of 
African Unity summit held in 2001 in Lusaka. 

Over  the  past  10  years,  NEPAD  has  built  up 
institutional  and  technical  experience  at  the  regional 
and international levels and has enabled the creation of 
a  forum  for  reflection  on  political,  economic  and 
environmental  matters.  NEPAD  has  also  enabled  the 
African  Union’s  objectives 
into 
specific,  visible  and  pragmatic  projects,  particularly 
when  it  comes  to  the  objectives  of  strengthening 
regional  integration,  food  security  and  the  eradication 
of poverty. 
Thanks to NEPAD, Africa has been able to make 

some  progress  in  recent  years  in  the  areas  of  peace, 
political  governance  and  economic  growth.  Progress 
has  also  been  made  in  upholding  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms  and  in  the  organization  of  free 
and fair elections, notably through the activities of the 
Africa Peer Review Mechanism. In this regard, Tunisia 
is,  for  the  first  time  in  our  history,  preparing  for 
credible,  transparent  and  free  elections,  which  will  be 
held in less than a month, in order to elect a constituent 
translated 
to  be 
12 

11-54043 
road 
review  mechanism 
the  efforts  being  made  by  Africa, 


assembly. We are determined to achieve this important 
milestone, which will doubtless constitute a significant 
step  on  Africa’s 
to  democracy  and  good 
governance. 

These  elements  of  progress  illustrate  Africa’s 
determination to move towards sustainable growth and 
improve the image of our  continent. However, despite 
these  encouraging  results, African  countries  are aware 
of  the  need  for  additional  efforts,  with  a  view  to 
making  economic  growth  more  inclusive  and  more 
effective  and  to  harnessing  internal  resources  by 
involving  the  private  sector  in  development  activities 
to a greater extent.  

In  the  context  of  high  youth  unemployment, 
development  partners  are  called  upon  to  support  and 
encourage 
in 
particular,  by  honouring  their  official  development 
assistance  commitments,  promoting  foreign  direct 
investment  and  removing  barriers  to  African  exports. 
Accordingly,  Tunisia  welcomes  the  adoption  by  the 
General  Assembly  of  a 
for 
commitments  to  Africa’s  development  needs.  This 
mechanism should enable a greater focus on assessing 
and  measuring 
implementation  of  official 
development  assistance  commitments  and  other 
commitments made with respect to aid to Africa. 

The  achievement  of  the  objectives  of  the  Global 
Malaria Action Plan has an impact on almost all of the 
therefore 
Millennium  Development  Goals. 
important 
the  global 
partnership  to  roll  back  this  illness  which  is  so  costly 
to the African continent.  

In  that  connection,  my  delegation  welcomes  the 
increase in international financing for the fight against 
malaria  over  the  past  10  years,  which  has  enabled 
notable  progress,  particularly  when 
to 
increased  access  to  insecticide-treated  mosquito  nets. 
We  have  thus  increased  the  number  of  protected 
persons in sub-Saharan Africa from 13 million in 2005 
to  75  million 
in  2009.  This  progress,  although 
noteworthy,  is  not  sufficient  to  achieve  the  objective 
we  have  set  for  ourselves  in  the  area  of  malaria.  It  is 
therefore essential for all countries to work together to 
provide  the  funding  necessary  to  fight  against  this 
scourge. 

In  spite  of  the  considerable  progress  made  in 
peace,  security  and  development,  Africa  remains 
confronted  with  many  complex  problems,  including 
the  efforts  of 
to  support 
it  comes 
the 
It 
is 
A/66/PV.33
and 
sustainable  development 
inter-State  conflicts,  unconstitutional  changes  of 
Government,  the  illicit  trade  in  small  arms  and  light 
weapons,  and  high  unemployment,  particularly  among 
young  people.  In  that  connection,  we  thank  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  recently  published  report  on 
the  causes  of  conflict  and  the  promotion  of  durable 
peace 
in  Africa 
(A/66/214), which provides an analysis of the two most 
urgent  problems  afflicting  Africa,  namely,  youth 
education  and  employment,  and  conflicts  and  natural 
resources, both of which have serious consequences for 
the  political  and  economic  development  of Africa  and 
its political stability.  

According  to  the  Population  Division  of  the 
United  Nations  Department  of  Economic  and  Social 
Affairs,  60  per  cent  of  Africa’s  population,  almost 
1 billion  people,  is  under  25  years  of  age.  In  view  of 
the population explosion among young people, we are 
duty-bound  to  attach  particular  importance  to  the 
urgency  at  the  international  level  of  providing  quality 
education,  professional  skills  and  decent  jobs.  We 
agree  with  the  Secretary-General’s  assertion  that  the 
uprisings  seen  in  North  Africa  were  partially  due  to 
youth  unemployment,  which  has  reached  the  alarming 
levels  of  31  per  cent  in  Tunisia  and  34  per  cent  in 
Egypt.  We  also  agree  that  unemployment  can  cause 
young  people  to  become  involved  in  criminal  and 
violent activities.  

In  that  connection,  my  delegation  calls  upon 
development partners, including international and civil 
society organizations, to support the efforts of African 
Governments  to  address  the  causes  of  despair  among 
African  youth  at  the  social,  political  and  economic 
levels  and  to  support  national  efforts  in  the  areas  of 
investment,  job  creation  and  poverty  eradication  in 
Africa.  

committed 
fundamental matters for Africa’s development. 
in 

French):  Allow  me  to  begin  by  congratulating  the 
Secretary-General on the report published in document 
A/66/202,  entitled  “New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development:  ninth  consolidated  progress  report  on 
implementation and international support”. 

I  would  also  like  to  indicate  that  my  delegation 
endorses  the  statement  made  from  this  podium  on 
behalf of the African Group.  
In  conclusion,  my  delegation  will  always  be 
these 
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon)  (spoke 
to  contributing  constructively 
to 
11-54043 

13 

the  adoption  of 
A/66/PV.33 


As  stressed  at  the  outset  by  the  Secretary-
General, the publication of the report coincides with a 
number of salient events, namely, the tenth anniversary 
of  the  adoption  by  African  leaders  of  the  flagship 
programme  of  the  African  Union,  which  is  the  New 
Partnership  for  Africa’s  Development  (NEPAD);  the 
High-level  Plenary  Meeting  of  the  General Assembly, 
held in this Hall in September 2010 on the margins of 
the sixty-fifth session of the General Assembly, on the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs); the adoption, 
last  May,  of  the  Istanbul  Programme  of Action  at  the 
Fourth  United  Nations  Conference  on 
the  Least 
Developed  Countries;  and 
the 
Framework  for  Implementation  of  the  Recommendations 
of the Millennium Development Goals Africa Steering 
Group.  

In the opinion of the Secretary-General, all of this 
points to a resurgence of attention, which, at the same 
time,  shows  that  African  countries  have  experienced 
many difficulties in achieving the MDGs. In section II 
of  his  report,  the  Secretary-General  analyses  actions 
taken  by  African  countries  and  organizations.  In 
section  III,  we  see  the  response  of  the  international 
community. In section IV, the support provided by the 
United Nations system is analysed. 

Allow  me  to  begin  by  providing  an  overview  of 
the progress made in the implementation of NEPAD in 
the  context  of  the  four  salient  elements  I  referred  to 
earlier, 
the  main 
recommendations  of  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  those  contained  in  the  report 
under consideration.  

The  recommended  actions  include:  coordinating 
all  forms  of  foreign  aid  in  order  to  incorporate  them 
into  national  development;  contributing 
the 
capacity-building 
economic 
communities;  bolstering  and  developing  local  transit 
infrastructures and continuing to pool best practices so 
as  to  strengthen  regional  integration;  and  supporting 
the  development  of  the  private  sector  in  Africa,  the 
promotion  of  joint  projects  between  the  public  sector 
and  the  private  sector,  and  the  attainment  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs),  in  keeping 
with  the  decisions  of  the  Executive  Council  of  the 
African Union in this respect. 

In  general  terms,  my  delegation  shares  the  view 
of  the  Secretary-General  that  in  the  context  of  the 
current  fragile  and  uncertain  global  recovery,  the 
light  of 
as  well 
regional 
the 
the 
of 
to 
in 
to 
the 
the 
With 
respect 
regional 
implementation of NEPAD and the achievement of the 
MDGs will require unwavering resolve and leadership 
on  the  part  of  the African  countries  and  development 
partners alike if we are to translate theory into practice. 

Like the Secretary-General, we welcome the fact 
that  at  the  continent-wide  level,  the African  Union  in 
February 2010 approved the integration of NEPAD into 
the  structures  and  processes  of 
the  Union  and 
established  the  NEPAD  Planning  and  Coordination 
Agency,  whose  mandate  is  to  implement  priority 
programmes  and  projects  at 
regional  and 
continental levels in Africa. 

economic 
communities, which play a flagship role in the context 
of economic integration, we note with satisfaction that 
those  communities  are  endeavouring  to  fulfil  their 
leading  role  in  the  implementation  of  projects.  Here  I 
am thinking in particular of the Economic Community 
of  West  African  States, 
the  Southern  Africa 
Development  Community,  the  Economic  Community 
of  Central  African  States  (ECCAS)  and  the  Central 
African  Economic 
and  Monetary  Community 
(CEMAC). 

At the national level, it is clear that the countries 
on  the  continent  have  each  developed  their  own 
development 
the 
objectives of NEPAD. 

At  these  various  levels,  efforts  are  continuing 
aimed at implementing the  programmes in the various 
sectors  identified  by  the  Steering  Group  set  up  by  the 
Secretary-General  with  a  view  to  attaining  the  MDGs 
in  Africa,  in  particular  agriculture  and  food  security, 
education,  health,  infrastructure,  trade  facilitation  and 
statistical systems. 

this 
assessment  on  the  basis  of  the  experience  of  my  own 
country,  Cameroon,  in  the  context  of  the  Central 
African subregion. 

With respect to coordinating all forms of foreign 
aid  so  as  to  integrate  them  effectively  into  national 
development,  Cameroon  in  2010  embarked  upon  the 
establishment of a joint strategy for development. The 
first  phase  of 
involves  an 
assessment,  has  made  it  possible  to  conduct  several 
studies:  one  on  the  factors  that  are  hampering  the 
consumption  of 
the 
foreign  aid;  one  assessing 
My  delegation  wishes 
the  strategy,  which 
consistent  with 
to  contribute 
programmes, 
to 
14 

11-54043 
the 
the  streamlining  of 
recent  example  was 


implementation of the Paris Declaration; and a further 
survey of the indicators related to the Declaration. 

With  respect  to  the  capacity-building  of  the 
regional economic communities, Cameroon, which is a 
member  of  ECCAS  and  CEMAC,  is  in  the  process  of 
implementing  all  the  resolutions  adopted  by  those 
institutions.  The  most 
the 
launching  in  Yaoundé  in  July  2010  of  the  Steering 
Committee  on 
regional 
economic communities, which seeks to harmonize their 
policies  and  programmes  in  the  long  term,  and  the 
convening  in  September  2010  of  the  working  group 
charged  with  identifying  areas  for  streamlining  and 
with  outlining  an  action  plan  for 
the  Steering 
Committee. 

As  far  as  the  strengthening  and  development  of 
infrastructure  is  concerned,  in  recent  years  Cameroon 
has begun the construction of a transport network that 
is  open 
to  neighbouring  countries.  Cameroon’s 
strategic  vision  of  the  country  as  a  trading  crossroads 
in  Central  Africa  is  taking  shape  in  the  form  of  two 
comprehensive planning frameworks. 
The  first  is  a  national  railroad  master  plan  that 

takes  into  account  the  issue  of  regional  integration 
through  the  interconnection  of  railway  lines  between 
Cameroon  on  the  one  hand  and  Chad,  the  Central 
African  Republic,  Nigeria,  Gabon,  Equatorial  Guinea, 
the Congo and the Democratic Republic of the Congo 
on the other hand. 

The  second  is  a  national  ports  master  plan  that 
involves,  inter  alia,  the  construction  of  a  deepwater 
port  in  Kribi,  on  the  Atlantic  seaboard,  the  aim  of 
which is to provide access to the sea for the subregion 
as a whole. President Paul Biya laid the cornerstone for 
this important endeavour on 7 October 2011. 

the  Congo  have 
undertaken  studies  on  stretches  of  road  in  their 
respective 
linking 
Sangmélima, in Cameroon, with Ouesso, in the Congo. 

Between  Cameroon  and  Nigeria,  the  transport 
facilitation programme on the multinational Bamenda-
Enugu road corridor is ready for implementation. 

Between  Cameroon  and  Equatorial  Guinea,  the 
project  to  asphalt  the  Kribi-Campo  road  and  build  a 
bridge  over  the  Ntem  river,  between  Campo  and  Rio 
Campo, is under way. 
territories,  with  a  view 
land,  Cameroon  and 
On 
to 
A/66/PV.33
Other 
in 
recommendations 
Between  Cameroon,  Chad  and 

the  Central 
African Republic, the regional flagship project is being 
implemented  in  the  Douala-N’Djamena  and  Douala-
Bangui pilot corridors. 

the  process  of 
implementation  concern  support  for  the  development 
of  the  private  sector  in  Africa,  the  promotion  of 
partnership  projects  between  the  public  and  private 
sectors,  and  the  implementation  of  the  MDGs,  in 
accordance with the decisions of the Executive Council 
of the African Union in that area. 

In  2010,  which  saw  the  implementation  of  the 
strategy  for  growth  and  employment,  Cameroon  took 
an  array  of  measures  to  develop  the  private  sector 
spanning  the  period  up  to  2013.  In  the  context  of  the 
implementation  of  the  strategy  document  for  growth 
and  employment,  Cameroon  intends  to  rely  on  the 
following guidelines for developing the private sector, 
which  include  the  diversification  of  the  economy,  in 
order to allow for the transition from a retail economy 
to a manufacturing economy, through the development 
of  growth  industries,  capacity-building  for  businesses, 
with  a  focus  on  the  consolidation  of  small  units, 
improving 
business 
environment. To that end, emphasis has been placed on 
the 
corruption,  market-access 
development  and  the  diversification  of  sources  of 
funding.  Concerning  access  to  local  markets,  the 
Government is encouraging the search for new outlets 
for local products. With respect to the diversification of 
funding  sources,  we  are  looking  at  developing  public-
private  partnerships;  facilitating  access  to  loans  for 
small-  and  medium-sized  enterprises  by  offering  loan 
guarantees, 
jobs 
through  business  creation,  diversifying  the  economy 
and 
the  business 
environment. 
Turning  now  to  attainment  of  the  MDGs,  the 

actions  my  country  has 
to 
eliminating  extreme  poverty  and  hunger  consist  of, 
among other things, promoting a stable macroeconomic 
framework;  strengthening  growth  by  diversifying  the 
economy;  reinvigorating  the  private  sector  as  a  driver 
of  growth  and  a  partner  in  the  provision  of  social 
services; 
and 
supporting  rural  populations  in  their  initiatives  in 
relevant  areas  such  as  agriculture,  animal  husbandry, 
agriculture and food processing. 
improving  competitiveness  and 
the  supply  of  decent 
competitiveness 
infrastructure; 
taken  with 
increasing 
developing 
basic 
and 
the 
fight 
against 
regard 
11-54043 

15 

Concerning  a 
sustainable  environment, 
to  ensure  compliance  with 
A/66/PV.33 


Furthermore,  the  Government  of  Cameroon  is 
implementing  an  education  sector  strategy  designed, 
among  other  things,  to  expand  access  to  education 
while  reducing  disparities  and  increasing  quality  and 
improving  management  and  governance  of 
the 
educational  system.  Cameroon  has  also  ratified  the 
Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All  Forms  of 
Discrimination  against Women. While  we  have  seen  a 
slight  improvement  in  the  ratio  between  men  and 
women  in  every  area,  much  still  remains  to  be  done, 
and  the  Ministry  for  the Advancement  of  Women  has 
launched  several  actions.  Similarly,  with  regard  to 
reducing  child  mortality  and  combating  HIV/AIDS, 
malaria  and  other  diseases,  officials  expect  to  reach 
these  goals  through  the  implementation  of  our  health 
sector strategy. 

the 
Government has formulated a strategy for biodiversity 
and  a  forestry-environment  sector  programme  that 
seeks 
international 
conventions  and  regional  agreements.  We  also  have  a 
framework law regulating environmental management. 
Cameroon  is  a  key  player  in  all  the  programmes  that 
have  been  initiated  in  central  Africa  in  this  area, 
including  the  Central  African  Forestry  Commission, 
the  Subregional  Action  Programme  for  combating 
desertification  in  Central  Africa,  the  Niger  Basin 
Authority,  the  Lake  Chad  Basin  Commission  and  the 
Congo Basin Forest Partnership. 

Cameroon’s  efforts  to  implement  NEPAD  have 
been  made  possible  by  its  national  policies  and  its 
establishment of a secure footing in the subregion, but 
also thanks to international cooperation. In that regard, 
my  country  generally  welcomes  the  response  of  the 
international community as it seeks to fully exploit the 
momentum  of 
for  Africa’s 
development,  the  topic  in  section  III  of  the  Secretary-
General’s  report.  However,  it  must  be  admitted  that 
much  remains 
terms  of  official 
development  assistance  (ODA),  debt  management, 
direct foreign investment, and trade. 
With  respect  to  official  development  assistance, 

for  Economic 
according 
the 
Cooperation  and  Development 
$128 billion  in  total  donor  contributions,  $48  billion 
were  disbursed  in  Africa,  which  represents  an  annual 
increase  in  real  terms  of  11.7  per  cent.  However,  the 
MDG Gap Task Force, studying delays in achievement 
of  the  MDGs,  has  deplored  the  $18  billion  ODA 
international  support 
the  Organization 
(OECD),  of 
to  be  done 
to 
in 
is 
environment,  which 
has 
the  flow  of  direct  foreign 
shortfall and estimates that Africa has actually received 
only  $46  billion,  far  below  the  $64  billion  pledged  at 
the  Gleneagles  Summit.  This 
therefore  an 
opportunity to remind donors of the need to continue to 
fulfil their commitments. There have been some efforts 
to relieve the burden of debt for African countries, such 
as  the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor  Countries  Initiative 
(HIPC)  and  the  Multilateral  Debt  Relief  Initiative,  as 
well  as  bilateral  debt  forgiveness.  On  28  July, 
26 African countries, including Cameroon, reached the 
completion  point  and  benefited  from  debt  relief  as 
provided  for  in  the  HPIC  Initiative.  We  all  know, 
however, that the economic crisis has been detrimental 
to  such  efforts  through  its  adverse  impact  on Africa’s 
debt levels. 
In  the  area  of  foreign  investment,  we  welcome 

the  efforts  of  African  countries  to  improve  their 
somewhat 
investment 
increased 
investment, 
particularly  for  emerging  countries.  We  encourage 
development  partners  to  continue  the  support  they  are 
already  providing  through  the  NEPAD-OECD  Africa 
Investment Initiative. Finally, with regard to trade, the 
Doha  Round  of  negotiations  have  made  very  little 
progress  towards  reaching  an  agreement  on  issues  of 
concern  to  Africa,  including  ending  subsidies  for 
agricultural  exports.  This 
the 
commitments made at the Group of 20 Summit held in 
Seoul in November 2010. 
In  section V  of  his  report,  the  Secretary-General 

the 
made  various  recommendations, 
their 
importance  of  African  countries  continuing 
effective 
implementation  of  NEPAD  projects  and 
programmes; the need for robust African leadership in 
order  to  achieve  tangible  results;  strengthening  civic 
participation 
the 
agricultural 
in 
accordance  with 
the  Maputo  Declaration;  greater 
participation  by  women,  in  the  context  of  the African 
Women’s  Decade  2010-2020;  the  integration  of  the 
climate issue into economic planning and management; 
the  reduction  of  foreign  aid  dependency  and  the 
promotion  of  self-reliance;  job  creation;  strengthening 
Africa’s  contribution  to  world  trade;  and  foreign  debt 
relief. 

these 
recommendations? While the answer is unquestionably 
through  greater  commitment  on  the  part  of  Africa 
itself,  it  is  also  through  development  partners’  respect 
the  development  of 
security, 
in  Africa; 
sector 
But  how  do  we 
implement  all  of 
is  notwithstanding 
including  on 
to  ensure 
food 
16 

11-54043 
impact  of 
to  $1.8  billion 
in  2010.  I  welcome 
in  Developing  Countries,  Particularly 


for their own commitments, a conclusion shared by the 
Secretary-General’s  report  on  NEPAD,  the  outcome 
document  of  the  High-level  Meeting  on  the  MDGs 
(resolution 65/1), the Istanbul Declaration on the Least 
Developed Countries and the Millennium Development 
Goals Africa Steering Group. 

Before I conclude, allow me to add a few words 
on  agenda  item  13,  “2001-2010:  Decade  to  Roll Back 
Malaria 
in 
Africa”, the subject of a note by the Secretary-General 
contained in document A/66/169 and of the second part 
of  this  joint  debate. There  are  basically  three  areas  in 
the  report that drew our  attention, namely, section  III, 
on  funding  the  fight  against  malaria;  section  VIII,  on 
the 
the  World  Health  Organization’s 
programmes aimed at combating malaria in the African 
region;  and  section  XI,  which  contains  the  report’s 
summary and recommendations. 

First,  on  funding,  we  welcome  the  increase  in 
disbursements,  which  increased  from  $0.3  billion  in 
2003 
the 
commitment  of  the  Global  Fund  to  Fight  AIDS, 
Tuberculosis  and  Malaria,  and 
the  United  States 
Agency  for  International  Development.  However, 
despite such progress, I must note that the total level of 
funding  is  lower  than  the  annual  sum  sought  in  the 
Global Malaria Action Plan.  

existing 
programmes, we are gratified to see the progress made. 
In general terms, the current trends, if confirmed, tend 
to demonstrate that intensive anti-malaria efforts could 
help many African countries. 

Finally, the Secretary-General’s recommendations 
are of genuine interest to my delegation. They include 
intensifying 
the  battle  by  distributing  pre-treated 
mosquito  nets  and  diagnostic 
to 
combination  therapy,  continuing  to  seek  foreign  aid, 
greater respect for regulations governing the quality of 
medicines on the market, and capacity-building within 
health  ministries,  to  name  but  a  few.  All  those 
measures  would  buttress  national  efforts  to  combat 
malaria. 
I wish to reiterate my delegation’s gratitude to the 

Secretary-General  and  to  convey  to  him,  his  Special 
Envoy  for  Malaria,  the  Director-General  of  the World 
Health Organization and all those operating in the field 
our encouragement in their efforts to combat malaria. 
tests,  access 
impact  of 
respect 
With 
the 
to 
A/66/PV.33
to 
the 
that 
two  reports  of 
implementation  of 
Ethiopia  welcomes 
fully  associate  ourselves  with 

To  conclude,  as  my  delegation  has  had  cause  to 
state  in  the  past  with  respect  to  NEPAD  and  the  fight 
against  malaria,  the  United  Nations  needs  to  develop 
an  articulate  action  plan 
includes  a  matrix 
establishing a planning period of two or three years for 
all  contributions 
these 
programmes,  accompanied  by  clear-cut  reference  to 
benchmarks and the distribution of roles, so that at the 
end of the process we can gauge how far we have come 
and  how  much  remains  to  be  done.  The  office  of  the 
Secretary-General’s  Special  Envoy  for  Malaria,  which 
we  commend  for 
its  arduous  work,  must  begin 
preparing such a matrix. 
Mr. Kebret (Ethiopia): Permit me at the outset to 

express our appreciation to the President for convening 
this plenary meeting of great importance to Africa and 
to 
the  statement 
delivered  by  the  representative  of  Kenya  on  behalf  of 
the Group of African States on the agenda items under 
consideration. 

the 
Secretary-General on the New Partnership for Africa’s 
Development (A/66/202) and on the cause of conflicts, 
the promotion of peace and sustainable development in 
the 
Africa  (A/66/214).  We  would 
Secretary-General 
reports, 
which  review  progress  made  in  the  implementation  of 
the  development  projects,  programmes,  strategies  and 
challenges  faced  by  the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
Development (NEPAD) over the past decade, as well as 
the  steps  that  need  to  be  taken  to  achieve  greater 
progress in the years ahead. 

As  we  commemorate  the  tenth  anniversary  of 
NEPAD,  Ethiopia  is  pleased  to  note  that  NEPAD  has 
made  significant  progress  in  terms  of  owning  and 
leading its strategies and programmes in areas such as 
agriculture, infrastructure, health and education, and in 
laying  a  solid  foundation  for  sound  socio-economic 
in  Africa.  NEPAD’s  sector-specific 
development 
programmes, 
particularly 
and 
infrastructure, are indeed critical to this progress and to 
the  overall  achievements  obtained  in  other  equally 
important areas of development. 

On  the  good  governance  front,  NEPAD  has  also 
demonstrated  its  useful  support  to Africa  in  its  efforts 
to  further  promote,  respect  and  protect  fundamental 
human 
implementing 
programmes  aimed  at  improving  good  political  and 
for  his  comprehensive 
freedoms  by 
agriculture 
rights 
thank 
like 
to 
the 
in 
and 
11-54043 

17 

A/66/PV.33 

economic governance throughout the continent. In this 
regard,  we  are  encouraged  to  note  that  30  African 
countries  have  already  acceded  to  the  African  Peer 
Review  Mechanism  (APRM)  and  that  14  African 
countries,  including  my  own,  have  submitted  their 
reports  for  review  by  APRM.  We  wish  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  encourage  other  African  countries  that 
have  not  yet  done  so  to  accede  to  the  APRM  and  to 
present their national reports. 

As the Secretary-General indicates in his reports, 
Africa’s leadership and commitment to social progress, 
sustained  economic  growth  and  good  governance 
reforms  are slowly but surely changing  perceptions of 
the  continent  in  the  right  and  positive  direction. 
However, the impact of pockets of conflict in different 
parts  of  the  continent  and  widespread  poverty  still 
undermine  Africa’s  successful  efforts  to  change  its 
image. 

With regard to resources to support development 
programmes,  African  countries  have  committed 
themselves  to  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals through, inter alia, the allocation of 10 per cent 
of  their  budgets  to  agriculture,  15  per  cent  to  health 
and  20  per  cent  to  education.  We  would  like  to 
recognize  and  express  our  gratitude  for  the  support  of 
to 
the  United  Nations  and  development  partners 
NEPAD  programmes 
their 
continued 
commitment to advancing NEPAD’s vision.  

However, much remains to be done if Africa is to 
extricate  itself  from  the  deep-rooted  poverty  and  the 
economic  problems  it  faces  and  assume  its  rightful 
place in the international community. The high rates of 
unemployment  and 
to  energy 
continue  to  hamper  the  continent’s  ability  to  create 
wealth and jobs. In this regard, we share the Secretary-
General’s  view  that  firm  determination  and  leadership 
are  required  from  all  of  us  —  Africans,  African 
countries and our international development partners — in 
order to achieve the goals that NEPAD has set out for 
Africa’s rapid economic integration and development. 

As  clearly  indicated  in  the  Secretary-General’s 
reports,  Africa’s  share  of  global  trade  and  incoming 
foreign  direct  investment  is  only  4  per  cent.  Ethiopia 
underlines  the  important  role  of  trade  and  investment 
in promoting economic growth and bringing Africa into 
the  mainstream  of  the  global  economy.  It  is  our  hope 
and  expectation  that  the  long  overdue  Doha  Round  of 
multilateral  trade  negotiations  should  be  accelerated 
limited  access 
and 
the 
for 
the 
18 

11-54043 
Malaria 
remains 
is  one  of 
the  national, 
with  a  view  to  creating  a  conducive  and  enabling 
environment. 

It  is  exactly  11  years  since  the  international 
community  expressed  its  determination  to  effectively 
address  the  serious  impact  of  malaria  on  developing 
countries,  particularly  in  Africa.  Over  the  years,  a 
broad  range  of  national  and  international  actions  has 
been under taken to tackle this deadly disease. 
As  is  known,  the  impact  of  this  disease  on 

socio-economic  development 
significant 
despite  considerable  political  attention  and  financial 
support  available  at 
regional  and 
international  levels.  There  is  a  need  for  enhanced 
financial, technical and other forms of assistance from 
the  international  community  to  ensure  sustainable 
development in Africa. 

the  major  public  health 
problems of my country. Approximately 68 per cent of 
our population lives in malaria-prone areas and 75 per 
cent of our land mass is malaria-infested. Recognizing 
the  adverse  impact  of  the  malaria  epidemic  on  socio-
economic development efforts, malaria prevention and 
control programmes in Ethiopia have been the priority 
in  our  health  sector.  We  have  adopted  a  10-year 
national  strategic  plan  aimed  at  rapidly  scaling  up 
malaria  control  interventions  to  achieve  a  50  per  cent 
reduction  of  the  malaria  problem  within  this  specified 
time frame. 
The  deployment  of  over  30,000  health  extension 

workers 
the 
community  level  is  part  of  our  national  efforts  to 
control  the  disease. As  a  result,  malaria-caused  deaths 
have declined substantially, falling by 55 per cent since 
1990, and the effective scale-up of malaria prevention 
and  treatment  has  also  achieved  a  dramatic  decline  in 
outpatient malaria cases. 

Before  I  conclude,  I  would  like  reiterate  our 
commitment  to  continuing  to  work  with  other African 
countries  and  the  international  community  to  translate 
into  reality  NEPAD’s  long-term  vision  and  to  support 
its strategies and programmes designed to help Africa’s 
socio-economic development endeavours. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  In 
accordance with resolution 49/2 of 19 October 1994, I 
now  call  on 
International 
Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. 
for  health-care  service  delivery  at 
the  observer  of 
in 
societies, 
partnership  with 



Ms.  Oosterhof  (International  Federation  of  Red 
Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies):  The  International 
Federation  of 
the  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent 
Societies  (IFRC)  statement  concerns  the  agenda  item 
on  the  Decade  to  Roll  Back  Malaria  in  Developing 
Countries.  

The  International  Federation  of  Red  Cross  and 
Red  Crescent  Societies  welcomes  the  note  by  the 
Secretary-General  (A/66/169)  transmitting  the  World 
Health  Organization  report  on  the  progress  made  in 
addressing  the  goals  towards  malaria  control  over  the 
past  decade.  The  findings  are  cause  for  optimism  and 
demonstrate that approaches of our global response to 
malaria work. 

Since  2002,  the  IFRC  and  its  186  member 
national 
other 
organizations,  have  contributed  to  these  successes  by 
distributing  more  than  15  million  mosquito  nets, 
protecting  25.5  million  people  and  preventing  more 
than 420,000 malaria deaths. As a member of the Roll 
Back  Malaria  Partnership,  we  welcome  the  positive 
results outlined by the Partnership’s report released in 
September.  The  findings  tell  us  that  working  in 
partnership  is  effective  and  has  created  a  foundation 
that  will  allow  for  even  greater  results  in  the  years  to 
come. 

in  combating 
malaria,  we  recognize that malaria  remains one of the 
most  devastating  global  public  health  challenges  and 
continues to have an impact on the lives of poor, young 
and  vulnerable  people,  thereby  affecting  the  future  of 
many developing countries. 
In order to sustain the  advances made, the IFRC 

welcomes 
recommendations 
highlighted  in  the  report transmitted  by  the  Secretary-
General’s  note. As  stated  in  the  report,  it  is  important 
to  recognize  that  “[a]t  the  heart  of  all  malaria  control 
programmes  are  people”  (A/66/169,  para.  73).  From 
our  long-standing  experience,  we  reaffirm  that  if 
malaria  control  programmes  are 
the 
to  succeed, 
engagement of people in communities is essential. 
This  is  why  the  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent 

is 
contribution 
focused  on  social  mobilization,  communication  and 
direct  assistance 
in 
communities. Every year, Red Cross and Red Crescent 
national  societies 
reach  millions  of  people  and 
households  through  community-based  activities.  The 
to  scaling  up  malaria  prevention 
to  people  and  households 
the  many  successes 
forward-looking 
Despite 
the 
A/66/PV.33
to 
reducing 
so-called 
practices.  Our 
significantly  contributed 
Community  volunteers  are  able 
direct  delivery  of  services  and  active  engagement 
empower  caregivers  and  families  with 
increased 
knowledge  and  enable  communities  to  make  informed 
decisions,  recognize  danger  signs  and  take  timely 
action.  This  work  would  not  be  possible  without  the 
tireless efforts of the volunteers who consistently carry 
out  household  visits  and  net  distributions.  In  2010 
alone,  over  18,000  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent 
volunteers  reached  more  than  6.2  million  people  with 
malaria messaging. 

to  facilitate 
behavioural  change  by  combining  net  distributions 
with  training,  which  ensures  correct  and  consistent 
prevention 
flagship 
programmes of “Hang Up” and “Keep Up” campaigns 
have 
the 
incidence  of  malaria,  especially  when  reaching  the 
most vulnerable groups, such as those living in remote 
areas,  refugees  and  people  affected  by  stigma  and 
discrimination. 

Good  programming  is  only  made  better  by  good 
data.  This  year,  the  IFRC  piloted  the  roll-out  of  a 
management survey tool. The tool uses mobile phones 
for  data  collection  and  can  provide  information  on 
progress and gaps in project implementation. By using 
data-driven  programming, 
to 
improve  the  implementation  of  malaria  prevention 
programmes  and  support  progress  to  be  made  in  the 
years to come. 
In order to sustain global and national progress in 

combating  malaria,  our  key  message 
that 
communities  must  own  the  activities  that  support  the 
prevention 
of  malaria.  When 
community-based  volunteers  provide  knowledge, 
prevention  and  treatment  options,  communities  are 
genuinely  empowered  to  be  the  most  effective  first 
responders to this disease. 

positive, 
healthy behaviours and can address barriers to healthy 
behaviour  changes.  Therefore,  to  ensure  long-term 
sustainable  results,  we  underline  the  importance  of 
facilitating malaria prevention from a top-down, scale-
up phase to a bottom-up, community-driven phase. By 
facilitating an enabling environment and strengthening 
the  role  of  communities,  we  can  move  closer  to 
achieving the internationally agreed goals, such as the 
health-related  Millennium  Development  Goals,  the 
goals set out by the Roll Back Malaria Partnership and 
it  will  be  possible 
Community 
ownership 
reinforces 
treatment 
and 
is 
11-54043 

19 

the 
joined 
together 
in  celebrating 
(NEPAD),  which  marks 
A/66/PV.33 

those  articulated  in  the  Global  Strategy  for  Women’s 
and Children’s Health. 

The Red Cross and Red Crescent, in partnership, 
will continue to support and improve effective malaria 
prevention.  We  remain  committed  to  building  on  the 
successes  gained  while  keeping  malaria  high  on  the 
health  agenda  at  the  global,  regional,  national  and,  in 
particular, community levels. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  We 

have  heard  the  last  speaker  in  the  debate  on  the  three 
agenda  items  under  consideration.  I  shall  now  give  a 
summary of our meeting.  
We  have  heard  a  total  of  30  speakers  from 

from  an 
intergovernmental 
Member  States,  one 
from  a  non-governmental 
organization  and  one 
organization. One after the other, they have thanked the 
Secretary-General  for  his  reports,  in  particular  that 
the  New  Partnership  for  Africa’s 
(A/66/202)  on 
Development 
tenth 
anniversary  of  that  programme.  Member  States  have 
thereby 
tenth 
anniversary  of  NEPAD  by  welcoming  the  progress 
achieved  and  highlighting 
to 
supporting  this  programme  and  to Africa’s  sustainable 
development.  Delegations  welcomed  NEPAD’s 
achievements and the crucial role of regional economic 
communities  and  of  African  States  themselves  in  its 
implementation.  

Delegations  highlighted  the  progress  achieved  at 
both the macroeconomic and sector-specific levels and 
through  democratic  good  governance  and  good 
economic  practices,  as  shown  through  the  return  to 
constitutional  order  in  various  States  and  the  Arab 
Spring.  Delegations  highlighted 
the  potential  for 
the  African  economy  represented  by 
growth  of 
NEPAD.  In  this  respect,  delegations  underlined  the 
exceptional  economic  growth  of  the  first  decade,  the 
efforts  agreed  upon  and 
in 
the  Comprehensive  Africa 
agriculture 
Agriculture  Development 
in 
infrastructure,  women’s 
human 
resources  development,  education,  health  care  and 
information and communications technology.  

Delegations welcomed efforts aimed at promoting 
economic and political governance through the African 
Peer  Review  Mechanism  as  a  crucial  pillar  of 
socio-economic  development  in  Africa.  A  number  of 
delegations  recalled  that,  in  spite  of  the  progress 
Programme, 
independence, 
the  results  achieved 
their  commitment 
through 
and 
the 
to 
in 
of 
On 
the 
the 
recalled 
continues 
importance 
the  deadlock 
achieved,  Africa 
face  persistent 
challenges.  Those  include  the  global  economic  and 
financial  crisis,  climate  change,  the  food  crisis  in  the 
Horn  of  Africa,  official  development  assistance,  the 
weak  efforts  of  development  partners  to  honour  their 
commitments  and  promises, 
the 
multilateral  trade  negotiations  under  the  Doha  Round, 
infrastructure  and  agriculture  development,  and  the 
problem of youth unemployment. 
To  respond  to  those  many  challenges,  Member 

States 
industrial 
development,  increased  investment  in  infrastructure 
and  agriculture  development,  the  mobilization  of  the 
continent’s  resources,  the  promotion  of  South-South 
cooperation  to  complement  traditional  assistance,  the 
strengthening  of  the  capacities  of  continental  and 
regional  institutions,  the  promotion  of  market  access, 
and  development-oriented  outcomes  in  multilateral 
trade negotiations.  

subject  of  assistance,  delegations 
underscored  the  importance  not  only  of  honouring 
prior  commitments  but  also  of  going  far  beyond  the 
provision  of  assistance  through  a  strategy  aimed  at 
reducing  the  dependence  of  African  countries  on  aid 
and improving development effectiveness. A number of 
delegations  also  expressed 
the 
implementation of a strengthened mechanism to follow 
up commitments to development in Africa.  

full 
commitment to continuing to support NEPAD’s efforts 
towards  Africa’s  development.  Delegations  welcomed 
the  efforts  under  way  within  the  United  Nations 
system, including those under the Office of the Special 
Adviser on Africa, towards NEPAD’s implementation. 
(spoke in English) 

I  would  like  to  congratulate  all  participants  for 
the  stimulating  discussion  we  have  had  today.  The 
illustrated  Member  States’  strong 
discussion  has 
solidarity  and  good  will 
in  supporting  African 
development.  Many  delegations  commended 
the 
increasing cooperation between the African Union and 
the  United  Nations,  which  has  proven  significant  in 
addressing  many  of  the  challenges  to  peace  and 
security 
in  Africa.  Member  States  called  for  a 
comprehensive approach to tackling the interconnected 
challenges of peace and development by addressing the 
causes  of  conflict,  including  their  socio-economic 
impact. 
their  support  for 
Delegations 
emphasized 
further 
their 
20 

11-54043 



Focus on the roll-back of malaria added a special 
dimension  to  our  joint  debate.  Some  Members  States 
called  for  a  comprehensive  approach  to  eradicating 
malaria and ensuring funding sustainability in order to 
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Malaria 
remains  a  global  challenge  to  be  tackled  by  global 
endeavours. 
As I conclude this summary, I would like to quote 

the  statement  delivered  by 
the  representative  of 
Guyana  on  behalf  of  the  Caribbean  Community,  in 
which he noted that:  
A/66/PV.33

“As Africa charts its way forward, the continued 
support  of  the  international  community  remains 
vital  to  its  success.  But  that  success  will  not  be 
Africa’s  alone;  the  fruits  of  progress  on  the 
continent will inevitably contribute to progress in 
other parts of the world” (A/66/PV.32).  
(spoke in French) 

The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
consideration  of  agenda  item  63  and  its  sub-items  (a) 
and (b) and agenda item 13.  

  The meeting rose at 5.25 p.m. 
11-54043 

21 
