
A/66/PV.8
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

8th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 20 September 2011, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 
the  call 
lost  since 
and  NCDs  was  widely  recognized  as  a  visionary 
document for the prevention and control of NCDs. 
Participants  were  clear  about  the  scale  of  the 

problem.  NCDs, 
including  cardiovascular  disease, 
cancers,  diabetes  and  chronic  lung  disease,  are  today 
the  leading  causes  of  death  and  disease  worldwide. 
They  share  four  major  causative  risk  factors:  tobacco 
use,  unhealthy  diet,  lack  of  physical  activity  and  the 
harmful use of alcohol. 

We  heard  of  the  need  —  indeed  the  shared 
responsibility — to acknowledge the magnitude of the 
NCD challenge and to act now. Some 300 million lives 
have  been 
for  Millennium 
Development Goals Plus was made a decade ago. Our 
round 
low-  and  middle-income 
countries 
and 
compressed 
for  mounting  an  effective 
response  to  the  threat  of  NCDs.  There  is  a  common 
experience across low- and middle-income countries of 
a  rising  tide  of  NCDs,  particularly  over  the  past  three 
decades. 
Many of these countries are now suffering from a 

and 
double 
non-communicable,  which 
already 
overstretched public health services hard. To enable us 
to respond, a stronger information and research basis is 
required.  There  is  still  insufficient  statistical  data  on 
NCDs,  particularly 
low-  and  middle-income 
countries,  where  current  capacities  for  surveillance  of 
NCDs are often inadequate. 
infectious 
hitting 
disease, 
are 
faster  growth 
experiencing 
table  noted 
timelines 
burden 
that 
are 
of 
in 





  The meeting was called to order at 3:10 p.m. 



the 
floor 
High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the 
Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases 
Agenda item 117 (continued)
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic): As  previously 

announced,  the Assembly  will  first  hear  presentations 
by the co-Chairs of the three round tables of the High-
level  Meeting,  followed  by  a  statement  by  the  Mayor 
of New York City. 

to  His  Excellency 
I  now  give 
Mr. Andrew  Lansley,  Secretary  of  State  for  Health  of 
the United Kingdom and co-Chair of round table 1. 
Mr.  Lansley  (United  Kingdom)  It  is  my  honour 

to  present  the  outcome  of  round  table  1,  which  met 
yesterday 
the 
developmental and other challenges, and the social and 
economic 
impact  of  non-communicable  diseases 
(NCDs) and their risk factors. 
A total of 38 contributions were made by national 

delegations, by non-governmental organizations and by 
international  intergovernmental  organizations.  There 
was  a  common  sense  of  urgency  and  a  very  honest 
acknowledgment  of  the  size  of  the  burdens  we  face. 
Shared views emerged of the best ways to tackle these 
problems.  Alongside 
the  Political  Declaration 
(resolution  66/2,  annex)  adopted  at  this  High-level 
Meeting, the Moscow Declaration on healthy lifestyles 
to  address 
incidence, 
rising 
the 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-50546 (E) 
*1150546* 


level.  We 
information 
systems,  not 
therefore  need 
reducing  productivity 
A/66/PV.8 


The  rapidly  increasing  burden  of  NCDs  in  low- 
and middle-income countries over the past decade has 
remained  relatively  hidden.  A  large  proportion  of 
people  at  high  risk  remain  undiagnosed  in  low-  and 
middle-income  countries,  and  even  those  diagnosed 
have  insufficient  access  to  treatment  at  the  primary 
health-care 
stronger 
surveillance  to  map  and  monitor  NCDs  and  their  risk 
factors and determinants as an integral part of national 
health 
least  because 
monitoring  provides  the  foundation  for  advocacy, 
policy development and global and national action. 

But there is not only a human burden from those 
diseases;  there  is  also  a  significant  economic  one,  as 
Director-General Margaret Chan told us yesterday. We 
heard  how  NCDs  are 
in 
workforces. Around 30 per cent of deaths due to NCDs 
in  low-  and  middle-income  countries  occur  during 
working  age,  compared  to  only  13  per  cent  in  high-
income countries. As a result, nations are experiencing 
increased  health-care 
costs,  weakened  national 
economic  development  and,  ultimately,  negative 
impacts on gross domestic product. 

As  Commissioner  John  Dalli  pointed  out,  NCDs 
reduce  people’s  ability  to  work  while  they  are  still  in 
the  prime  of  life.  With  a  substantial  proportion  of 
household  income  being  spent  on  health  care  in  low-
income  countries,  there  is  a  double  impact  of  high 
health-care  costs  and  reduced  household  incomes. 
Costs for NCD-related health care, medicines, tobacco 
and  alcohol  displace  household  resources  that  might 
otherwise be available, for example, for education. 

There  are  already  people  dying  unnecessarily 
before  their  time.  All  our  speakers  were  clear.  We 
cannot  delay  developing  our  health  systems  to  deal 
with  this  rising  tide.  We  must  strengthen  health 
systems  across 
the  board  for  communicable  and 
non-communicable  diseases  alike,  with  a  particular 
emphasis on primary care. We need specialized human 
resources in health systems. Health workers need to be 
recruited,  trained  and  retained  in  order  to  recognize, 
assess and manage NCDs. Issues of universal coverage 
and  financial  sustainability  must  be  addressed  as  part 
of  an  overall  approach,  and  we  need  to  build  and 
strengthen capacity for research and development. The 
experience  of  programmes  like  those  for  HIV/AIDS 
and malaria show the power of bringing to bear global 
cooperation and innovation on a health problem. 
is 

At  the  same  time,  we  need  health  systems  not 
simply  to  treat  disease  but  to  be  reoriented  towards 
preventive  action  —  preventing  the  onset  of  disease 
rather  than  merely  treating  the  symptoms,  working 
proactively  to  avoid  costs,  both  human  and  economic, 
rather  than  feeling  the  impact  on  the  household  and 
taxpayer purse. 

For  example,  we  heard  about  the  clear  linkages 
between maternal and child health and non-communicable 
diseases.  Not  only 
improper  nutrition  during 
pregnancy  associated  with  stillbirths  and  pre-term 
births, but it also leads to higher rates of diabetes and 
high  blood  pressure  later  in  life.  In  turn,  high  blood 
pressure  and  gestational  diabetes  present  serious  risks 
to both the mother and the baby.  

NCDs  are  also  a  gender  issue.  There  is  a  wide 
disparity  in  risk  of  NCDs  between  men  and  women, 
differences  in  access  to  diagnosis  and  treatment,  and 
linkages  with  the  empowerment  of  women  and  the 
education of girls. It was also noted that the burden of 
caring is unequally shared between women and men. 
At  our  round  table,  we  heard  calls  to  strengthen 

levels  of 
political  commitment  at 
government. A  range  of  sectors  needs  to  be  involved: 
agriculture,  education,  transportation,  urban  design 
and — beyond Government — academia, civil society, 
the private sector, religious leaders, and the community 
as a whole. 

This  shared  responsibility  should  mean,  as  our 
colleague  from  Guyana  told  us,  that  it  is  time  now  to 
be  aggressive,  not  timid.  We  must  integrate  NCD 
prevention  and  control 
into  national  and  global 
sustainable  and  human  development  agendas.  Many 
delegations  emphasized  the  importance  of  healthy 
behaviours and raising public awareness.  

However,  as  His  Excellency  the  President  of 
Nauru,  noted,  lifestyle  change  is  difficult.  Responses 
presented  include  a  wide  range  of  schemes,  such  as 
school-based 
and  nutritional  programmes, 
reformulation  of  foods,  tobacco  control,  regulation  of 
marketing  and  infrastructures  for  promoting  physical 
activity,  as  Mr.  Jacques  Rogge,  from  the  International 
Olympic Committee, reminded us. 
Strong  appeals  were  made  that  there  should  be 

coordinated 
tackling 
NCDs  alongside,  and  not  detrimental  to,  the  work 
already  proving  successful  on  infectious  diseases. 
internationally 
the  highest 
investment 
food 
in 
2 

11-50546 


Furthermore,  action  on  NCDs  should  not  focus  solely 
on  the  big  killers,  but  must  also  recognize  and  give 
sufficient weight to needs in mental health, oral health, 
musculoskeletal  disorders,  violence  and  injuries  and 
sickle-cell disease. 

Contributors  were  equally  clear  that,  as  we 
develop  targeted  strategies  on  particular  conditions  or 
risk  factors,  we  must  see  the  bigger  picture  of  what 
drives disease prevalence. We need to act on the social 
determinants  of  health.  Participants  recognized  the 
clear  link  between  those  social  factors  and  higher 
levels of mortality and morbidity from NCDs.  

These  are  the  social  determinants:  how  we  are 
born,  grow,  live,  work  and  age.  So,  as  Dr.  Nancy 
Brinker,  the  WHO  Goodwill  Ambassador  for  Cancer 
Control, eloquently put it to us, where you live should 
not  determine  whether  you 
live.  These  social 
determinants  drive  the  prevalence  and  impact  of 
disease.  Social  inequalities  lead  directly  to  health 
inequalities, so our efforts to combat risk factors must 
be led by a drive to act on those social determinants of 
health — the causes of the causes. 
In summary, the main conclusions from the many, 

very  effective  contributions  were  that  country-level 
leadership  is  needed. The  tide  of  NCDs  can  be  turned 
by  Government-led  action,  in  close  collaboration  with 
civil society and the private sector. But we are, as our 
colleague from India reminded us, all inextricably and 
globally linked in our struggle.  

Strong  country-level  leadership  needs  visible, 
global  support.  We  heard  clearly  that  international 
organizations  such  as  the  World  Health  Organization 
and the World Bank stand ready to provide that support 
as well as the shared experience and strategies created 
bilaterally and regionally. 

In the face of the rising prevalence of NCDs, our 
round  table  was  clearly  focused  on  moving  forward 
from an analysis of the problem to strategies to respond 
and  action 
to  deliver  targeted  gains.  A  stronger 
information  and  evidence  base,  enhanced  health-care 
systems,  a 
focus  on  prevention,  a  whole-of-
Government  approach  and  a  multisectoral  response, 
targeted strategies on key risk factors, and, not least, a 
recognition that we must give all of our peoples, from 
birth, as they grow and work through their lives and as 
they age, the opportunities, the security and the quality 
of life which will lift the burden of disease and give all 
of us more years to our lives and more life to our years.  
for 
sector 
to 
11-50546 

3 
A/66/PV.8
The President (spoke in Arabic): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Pál  Schmitt,  President  of 
the Republic of Hungary and co-Chair of round table 2. 
President Schmitt: I deemed it a great honour to 

serve as co-Chair, along with the Minister of Health of 
Mexico,  His  Excellency  Salomón  Chertorivski 
Woldenberg,  of  this  round  table.  I  am  happy  that, 
thanks  to  the  high  level  of  participation  and  the 
valuable  contributions  made,  we  could  consider  this 
difficult issue with an open mind and creativity. 
We  all  agreed  that  non-communicable  diseases 

(NCDs) represent a major threat, especially to low- and 
middle-income  countries.  This  round  table  addressed 
the best successful practices in place in countries with 
different  income  levels;  discussed  the  affordable  and 
cost-effective  actions  and  measures 
that  can  be 
implemented;  identified  priorities  for  strengthening 
national capacities; and reviewed the lessons learned in 
promoting intersectoral actions. Finally, the round table 
enabled a discussion of priorities in the forging of new 
alliances  between  sectors,  Government  departments, 
communities, non-governmental organizations (NGOs) 
and the corporate sector.  

A  total  of  43  statements  were  made  by  national 
delegations,  NGOs  and  intergovernmental  organizations. 
The  key  message  included  an  emphasis  on  the  great 
urgency 
the 
implementation  of  affordable  and  cost-effective  best 
practices  —  we  called  them  “best  buys”  —  that  have 
been  properly  tested  in  the  field  in  order  not  to  lose 
momentum.  Stress  was  also  placed  on  the  pressing 
need to invest in prevention and care as an integral part 
of sustainable socio-economic development in order to 
tackle  NCDs  comprehensively.  Best  buys  and  other 
effective  measures  aimed  at  reducing  risk  factors  can 
be implemented only through the active engagement of 
non-health sectors; to that end, an effective mechanism 
for intersectoral action should be created. 

There is a need for reports and packages aimed at 
addressing NCDs and risk factors, including preventive 
and  curative  actions  and  access  to  medicines.  Health-
care  systems  need  to  be  strengthened,  particularly  at 
the primary health care level, in order to work towards 
universal  access  to  basic  health  care  for  people  with 
NCDs,  including  essential  medicines.  Also  key  is  the 
development of appropriate capacities and institutional 
mechanisms 
engage 
addressing  NCDs 
the  health 
through 
of 
A/66/PV.8 

systematically across Government and other sectors to 
address the health dimensions of daily activities. 

Training  health  personnel  in  adequate  numbers 
and ensuring their even distribution is a must in order 
to ensure appropriate national capacity to tackle NCDs 
in  order  to  achieve  universal  coverage,  especially 
through  primary  health  care  and  social-protection 
mechanisms  aimed  at  providing  access  to  health 
services for all. 

The  need  to  consider  health-care  professional 
migration  issues  and  address  the  problem  of  “brain 
drain” was emphasized. Calls were made to ensure that 
cancer,  diabetes,  cardiovascular  disease,  chronic 
respiratory  disease,  mental  disorders,  disabilities  and 
other  ailments  are  tackled  within  the  framework  of  a 
strengthened  health  system  based  on  a  primary  health 
care-based system. 

The existence of initiatives to combat NCDs in a 
growing  number  of  countries  provides  a  strong 
foundation  to  make  greater  progress  in  the  coming 
years through increasingly robust efforts. 

NCD  policies  and  plans  need  to  be  aligned  with 
strong 
political 
commitment  and  according  higher  priority  to  NCD 
programmes  are  key  factors  in  strengthening  national 
capacities  to  tackle  NCDs.  Guidance  on  effective 
policies  and  strategies  to  address  capacity  gaps  are 
available  and  need  to  be  used.  Growing  national 
capacities  for  combating  the  NCD  epidemic  indicate 
that  there  are  significant  opportunities  for  progress  in 
the coming years. 

Furthermore,  more  prevention  gains  may  be 
achieved  by  influencing  public  policies  in  domains 
such  as 
food,  pharmaceutical  production, 
agriculture,  urban  development,  pricing,  advertising, 
information  and  communications 
technology  and 
taxation policies than by changes that are restricted to 
health policies and health care alone. 

The  priorities  that  countries  can  implement  to 
overcome  NCDs  and  their  risk  factors  include,  inter 
alia, 
an 
operational  integrated  plan  to  tackle  NCDs  and  their 
risk 
the  prevention  and 
treatment  aspects.  Although  such  an  approach  should 
be  aimed  at  targeting  the  population  as  a  whole,  it 
should  not  overlook  groups  that  are  in  vulnerable 
situations.  There  is  a  need  for  multisectoral  action  in 
including  both 
comprehensive 
Strengthening 
involving 
approach 
national 
factors, 
plans. 
trade, 
a 

to 
implemented 
which  policymakers  follow  successful  approaches 
aimed  at  engaging  non-health  sectors  on  the  basis  of 
international  experience  and  lessons  learned.  This 
should  include  cooperation  in  implementing  key  NCD 
activities that brings on board multiple sectors.  

Also required is the establishment of surveillance 
and  monitoring  frameworks  for  NCDs  that  monitor 
exposure,  risk  factors  and  determinants,  outcomes, 
including  morbidity  and  mortality,  and  health  system 
responses,  interventions  and  capacities  that  are  fully 
integrated  into  national  health  information  systems.  It 
is  also  important  that  measurable,  standardized  core 
indicators be adopted. Achievement targets must be set 
for  countries.  Their  health-care  systems  must  be 
strengthened  to  address  NCDs  via  redirecting  existing 
organizational and financial arrangements.  

Conventional  and  innovative  means  to  finance 
reforms,  based  on  strengthened  primary  health  care 
capacities  and  improved  health  system  performance, 
can  be 
improve  NCD  control 
outcomes.  Prevention  and  control  measures  that  are 
clearly  cost-effective  —  as  I  mentioned,  the  “best 
buys”  —  should  be  adopted  and  implemented,  as 
should  population-wide 
that  can  be 
complemented by individual health-care interventions. 

With  respect  to  sustainable  development,  the 
NCD  epidemic  has  had  a  substantial  negative  impact 
on  human  and  social  development.  NCD  prevention 
must  be  included  among  the  priorities  of  national 
investment 
development 
decisions, 
situation. 
Strengthening  prevention  and  control  of  NCDs  must 
also be considered an integral part of poverty reduction 
and development assistance programmes. 
Civil society institutions and groups are uniquely 

placed  to  mobilize  political  and  public  awareness  and 
support for NCD prevention and control efforts, and to 
play  a  key  role  in  building  capacity  and  supporting 
NCD programmes. 
Business  can  also  make  decisive  and  important 

prevention 
contributions 
challenges.  Responsible  marketing 
the 
promotion  of  unhealthy  diets  and  other  harmful 
behaviours,  as  well  as  product  reformulation 
to 
promote  access  to  healthy  food  options,  are  examples 
of approaches and actions that should be implemented 
by  the  corporate  sector.  Governments  are  responsible 
for monitoring those necessary actions. 
initiatives 
on 
addressing  NCD 
related 
national 
interventions 
to  prevent 
and 
the 
based 
to 
4 

11-50546 
interventions  affordable 



In the context of sustainable health financing, the 
financing  of  prevention  and  health-care  interventions 
remains  a  major  impediment  to  achieving  progress. 
Financial  allocations  for  NCD  prevention  are  often 
inadequate,  as  many  low-income  countries  have  no 
domestic  funding  available  at  all.  Increasing  taxation 
on  tobacco  and  alcohol  is  possible  in  many  countries 
and could generate proceeds of which a portion would 
be allocated to health, thus bolstering national policies 
and  plans.  Taxes  and  controls  on  other  harmful 
products,  such  as  sugary  drinks  and  industrialized 
in  salt  or 
foods  high 
trans-fat,  should  also  be 
considered.  Furthermore, 
initiatives 
tax  regulation 
should be applied to healthy foods and beverages. 

I  understand  that  participants  in  round  table  2 
proposed  the  following  actions  related  to  the  shared 
responsibility  to  make  prevention  work  worldwide: 
prevent  a  major  proportion  of  the  NCD  burden  by 
reducing  exposure  to  tobacco  use,  unhealthy  diets, 
physical  inactivity  and  the  harmful  use  of  alcohol, 
using  “best  buys” 
in  all 
countries;  consider  various 
for  action, 
particularly  schools,  workplaces,  households  and 
communities;  and  sustain  health  financing  through 
innovative  approaches  such  as  earmarking  revenue 
from alcohol and tobacco taxes. Further, it is important 
to  stress  the  creation  of  school-based  interventions  as 
one  way  to  promote  healthy  lifestyles  and  prevent 
NCDs.  An 
involve 
communication tools such as the social media domain. 

Shared  responsibility  to  advance  multisectoral 
action  could  be  strengthened  by  developing  national 
multisectoral 
effective 
multisectoral  coordination  mechanisms  and  cross-
cluster  action  teams,  in  particular  with  ministries  of 
agriculture, education, finance, planning, social affairs 
and welfare, trade and transport.  

The  shared  responsibility  to  scale  up  access  to 
NCD  essential  health-care  services  in  all  countries 
must be strengthened by integrating NCD policies and 
plans within broader efforts on health system planning; 
providing  cost-effective  screening  and  early  detection 
and treatment services for people  at high risk of heart 
attack, stroke and curable cancers; establishing policies 
to  ensure  universal  access  to  essential  medicines 
through 
and  distribution; 
providing  viable  financing  options  and  policies  for 
high-quality  generic  medicines;  developing  and  using 
evidence-based  guidelines  for  the  treatment  of  major 
innovative  approach  would 
efficient  procurement 
establishing 
settings 
plans 
and 
A/66/PV.8
NCDs;  providing  training  for  health  workers  at  all 
levels of care; and developing health financing policies 
aimed at universal coverage. 

The  shared  responsibility  to  set  targets  and 
measure  results  requires  the  monitoring  of  NCDs  and 
their  risk  factors; 
the  strengthening  of  national 
information  systems  by  implementing  a  surveillance 
framework  that  monitors  key  risk  factors,  morbidity 
and  mortality  and  health-system  capacities  relating  to 
NCDs; and the setting of standardized national targets 
and  indicators  consistent  with  internationally  agreed 
monitoring mechanisms. 

Finally,  capabilities,  knowledge,  empathy  and 
wisdom  are  humankind’s  treasures.  We  are  obliged  to 
use them for the benefit of our most valuable treasure, 
human life, which is irreplaceable. 
The President (spoke in Arabic): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Denzil  Douglas,  Prime 
Minister  of  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  and  co-Chair  of 
round table 3. 
Mr.  Douglas  (Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis):  The 

discussion  of  round  table  3  addressed  the  importance 
of  fostering 
in  assisting 
countries  in  addressing  non-communicable  diseases 
(NCDs).  I  should  point  out  that  we  concluded  our 
discussions  at  1  p.m.  today,  so  I  want  to  thank  our 
facilitators  for  preparing  the  summary  that  I  am 
presenting. 
interpreted  by 

participants 
included 
cooperation  among  Governments,  between  Governments 
and  international  organizations,  and  with  all  relevant 
sectors,  both  public  and  private,  working  at  inter-country 
level.  The  round  table  discussions  highlighted  areas 
where  coordinated  action  and  international  solidarity 
are  important  to  advancing  national  and  international 
surveillance  and  monitoring  of  non-communicable 
diseases  and  their  risk  factors,  reducing  exposure  to 
risk  factors,  and  strengthening  the  care  and  treatment 
of people with NCDs.  
A total of 42 interventions were made by national 

delegations,  non-governmental  organizations 
and 
members  of  the  corporate  sector.  What  were  some  of 
the  key  messages  that  emanated  from  this  round  table 
discussion?  
First, participants believed that we are entering a 

new  frontier  in  public  health  to  which  international 
International  cooperation  was 
its  broader  sense.  That 
international  cooperation 
in 
11-50546 

5 

the 
importance  of 
international  cooperation 
A/66/PV.8 

cooperation  and  coordination  will  be  vital.  It  was 
recognized  that  in  our  increasingly  globalized  world, 
national  action  alone  will  not  be  sufficient  to  address 
the  rising  tide  of  NCDs.  The  lessons  learned  from 
international  action  on  tackling  HIV  over  the  past 
10 years provide examples of international cooperation 
that  should  be  quite  useful  as  we  move  forward  in 
addressing the NCDs of today. 

Secondly, the stark intra- and inter-country health 
and economic inequities related to NCDs were clearly 
acknowledged. The role of poverty in increasing NCD 
risk,  and 
impact  of  NCDs  on  poverty  and 
development were highlighted. Participants recognized 
the 
in 
increasing  our  own  collective  understanding  of  NCD-
related  inequalities,  and  the  need  to  integrate  NCDs 
into  official  development  assistance  programmes 
around the world. 

Thirdly,  international  instruments  such  as  the 
Framework  Convention  on  Tobacco  Control  were 
acknowledged as being critical tools needed for scaling 
up  action  to  address  NCDs.  Continued  dialogue  on 
possible  additional  global  frameworks,  trade-related 
codes  of  conduct  and  other  international  instruments 
was encouraged. 

Fourthly,  the  importance  of  sharing  information 
and experiences was repeatedly emphasized throughout 
the  statements.  Tackling  NCDs  was  seen  as  an 
opportunity  to  increase  South-South  cooperation  as 
international 
well  as 
collaboration. 
were 
acknowledged  as  important  mechanisms  for  sharing 
experience and stimulating research into cost-effective 
interventions for addressing NCDs, particularly in low-
resource  settings.  In  that  regard,  many  participants 
took  the  opportunity  during  this  round  table  to  share 
their own national experiences. 

Fifthly,  many  participants  raised  the  importance 
of  developing  time-bound  targets  in  order  to  hold 
ourselves  to  account,  monitor  progress  and  ensure 
continued  attention  to  and  investment  in  combating 
NCDs. 
Finally,  permit  me  to  identify  some  key  areas 

where  international  cooperation  was  thought  to  be 
particularly important in addressing NCDs. The first is 
strengthening  national  surveillance,  regarding  which 
we  recognize  that  the  current  lack  of  critical  national 
to  guide  policy  development  and 
data  needed 
regional  and 
inter-country, 
Professional 
networks 
and 
in 
that 
The 
second 
emphasized 
collaboration 
is 
in  order 
strengthening 
to  engage 
Internationally  coordinated  action 
international  assistance  was  highlighted  by  many 
participants.  We 
international 
assistance to address this issue was urgently needed.  
international 

collaboration 
in  constructive 
dialogue with the commercial sector to  develop trade-
related  practices  that  protect  and  promote  healthy 
consumption.  Many  participants  in  this  round  table 
sought to encourage internationally coordinated action 
to tackle pressure from the pharmaceutical industry and 
engage productively with the private sector. 
The  third  is  marketing  and  advertising,  whose 

positive  and  negative  aspects, 
including  modern 
communications  such  as  social  media,  were  also 
highlighted. 
to 
optimize  the  benefits  of  modern  communications  in 
promoting healthy lifestyles was discussed, as was the 
importance of international efforts to limit the negative 
effects of advertising and marketing.  
The  fourth  was  the  key  role  of  international 

coordination 
developing 
international  standards  and  harmonizing  regulation, 
particularly  on  food  standards.  We  believe  that  this 
point,  which  was  raised  by  a 
large  number  of 
participants, is critical. 

The fifth is access to medicines and technologies. 
The  issue  of  access  to  affordable  medications  was 
raised by a number of participants. The importance of 
this must be remembered as we scale up our actions to 
combat  NCDs.  I  recalled  our  own  experiences  with 
regard  to  HIV/AIDS,  which  were  highlighted  as 
possible  models  for  addressing  some  of  the  access 
issues  that  confront  us  today.  This  was  acknowledged 
as  a  complex  issue,  where  the  right  balance  —  and  I 
emphasize  the  right  balance  —  between  cost  to  the 
consumer  and  reasonable  profit  to  the  pharmaceutical 
companies must be found and pursued. 

That is the summary of our round table. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  The 

Honourable Mr. Michael Bloomberg, Mayor of the City 
of New York. 
Mr. Bloomberg: For those who have come to our 

city  for  this  meeting  and  for  the  upcoming  session  of 
the  General Assembly,  welcome  to  New York. We  are 
always  delighted  to  host  visitors.  I  am  honoured  to 
have this opportunity to address the Assembly. 
6 

11-50546 



Improving public health has long been one of my 
passions. That is why I am devoted to enhancing one of 
the  world’s  pre-eminent  schools  of  public  health,  my 
alma  mater,  the  Johns  Hopkins  University,  which  is 
dedicated  to  saving  lives,  millions  at  a  time.  Public 
health  remains  an  intense  focus  of  my  philanthropic 
work as  well  as of my public service as Mayor of the 
City of New York. Without a doubt, the greatest public 
health  challenges  in  the  world  today  are  those  that 
participants  have  identified,  namely,  the  dangers  of 
chronic non-communicable diseases. 

The  increase  in  cardiovascular  disease,  cancers, 
diabetes and chronic respiratory diseases, as the World 
Health  Organization  (WHO)  warns,  has  reached 
epidemic  levels.  Each  year,  unless  we  head  off  this 
epidemic  now,  tens  of  millions  of  people  across  the 
globe, especially in low- and medium-income nations, 
will  be  subjected  to  crippling  pain  and  disability 
caused  by  cardiovascular  disease  and  cancer.  Tens  of 
millions more will be left speechless and immobile by 
debilitating  strokes,  or  maimed  and  enfeebled  by 
diabetes. Tragically, tens of millions of others will face 
early  and  painful  deaths,  leaving  families  bereft  and 
often impoverished. 

reducing  non-communicable 
diseases the focus of public health policy here in New 
York  City,  a  city  of  about  8.4  million  people.  I  am 
happy to report that we have had considerable success 
as a result. This is fundamental to the fact that for New 
Yorkers today, life expectancy has increased faster and 
remains  higher  than  for  Americans  overall.  Between 
2001  and  2008,  life  expectancy  in  our  city  grew  by 
more  than  a  year  and  a  half.  That  is  an  outcome  we 
take pride in and that we have worked hard to achieve. 
I  believe  all  nations  worldwide  can  achieve  similar 
success. 

the  outset  of  my  Administration,  we 
At 
recognized that non-communicable diseases, especially 
heart  disease  and  cancer,  far  outstripped  all  other 
causes  of  death  in  our  city,  and  that  the  single  most 
effective  thing  we  could  do  to  reduce  them  was  to 
discourage smoking. Since then, we have implemented 
a  range  of  policies  aimed  at  achieving  precisely  that 
goal.  We  have,  for  example,  made  New  York  City’s 
bars and restaurants, like our other workplaces, smoke-
free.  Recently,  we  extended  that  ban  to  our  parks  and 
public beaches. 
We  have  made 
A/66/PV.8

We  have  also  mounted  hard-hitting  educational 
media  campaigns  that  graphically  depict  the  dire 
consequences  of  smoking.  We  have  made  smoking 
cessation  programmes  far  more  widely  available  and, 
very importantly, we have increased the excise taxes to 
make  cigarettes  purchased 
in  our  city 
the  most 
expensive in our nation, at about $11 a pack. 

Here are the results of those efforts. Before 2002, 
the  proportion  of  adult  smokers  in  our  city  had  been 
constant for many years, at roughly 22 per cent. Today, 
that  has  dropped  to  14  per  cent,  the  lowest  on  record. 
There  are  now  some  450,000  fewer  adult  smokers  in 
our city than there were in 2002. That means we have 
already  saved  at  least  1,500  lives  a  year.  Most 
encouraging of all, the proportion of public high school 
students  who  smoke  has  been  cut  by  more  than  half, 
from 18 per cent to just 7 per cent. That will save even 
more lives in the years ahead. Such results can be, and 
must be, replicated worldwide, because when it comes 
to  preventing  tobacco-related  illnesses  and  death,  we 
are in a race with time, a race we cannot afford to lose. 

Here is what is at stake. By the end of the decade, 
WHO  expects  that  there  will  be  7.5  million  tobacco-
related  deaths  worldwide  every  single  year.  Some 
80 per  cent  of  those  deaths  will  take  place  in  the 
world’s  low-  and  middle-income  countries,  where 
tobacco  companies  have  stepped  up  their  marketing 
briskly.  As  economists  put  it,  the  tobacco  industry  is 
getting  the  world’s  poor  hooked  before  Governments 
can  respond.  Unless  we  respond,  the  results  will  be 
1 billion  premature  deaths  worldwide  during 
the 
twenty-first  century.  That  would  be  a  calamity  of  the 
first magnitude. That is why I have also made tobacco 
control a priority of Bloomberg Philanthropies. 

Since  2006,  we  have  established  partnerships 
with  Governments  and  citizens’  groups  around  the 
world  to  implement  public  policies  designed  to  defeat 
the  global 
tobacco  epidemic.  Those  policies  are 
familiar to many participants. They carry out the intent 
of  the  historic  Framework  Convention  on  Tobacco 
Control,  the  world’s  first  public  health  treaty,  which 
has been ratified by some 170 nations.  

taking  action.  For 
example,  two  years  ago  the  Brazilian  state  of  São 
Paolo  mandated  comprehensive  smoking-free  public 
places.  Since  then,  six  more  Brazilian  states  have 
followed  suit.  Turkey  has  adopted  similar  policies 
nationwide,  and  also  mandated  graphic  cigarette  pack 
Many  nations  are  now 
11-50546 

7 
We  have  also 
The  progress  we  are  seeing  on 
A/66/PV.8 

warnings  and  raised  tobacco  taxes.  So  far  this  year, 
Nepal, Lebanon, Argentina, Ecuador and other nations 
have enacted comprehensive tobacco control laws. 

tobacco 
is 
encouraging  action  on  other  fronts  as  well.  To  fight 
diabetes  and  heart  attacks,  for  example,  in  New  York 
we  have  also  taken  the  lead  in  promoting  healthier 
eating. In 2008 we became the first jurisdiction in the 
United  States  to  require  restaurant  chains  to  post 
calorie 
information  on  menus  and  menu  boards. 
Surveys now tell us that customers who observe these 
postings  buy  food  with  fewer  calories.  In  2009  we 
enacted the first restriction on cholesterol-free artificial 
trans-fat in the city’s food service establishments. Our 
licensing  of  street  green  cart  vendors  has  greatly 
increased the availability of fresh fruits and vegetables 
in  neighbourhoods  with  high  rates  of  diet-related 
diseases.  
led  a  national  salt-reduction 

food  manufacturers, 
initiative  and  engaged  28 
supermarkets  and  restaurant  chains 
to  voluntarily 
commit to reducing excessive levels of sodium in their 
products.  And  we  have  mounted  a  public  education 
campaign, highlighting the ways that consuming sugar-
sweetened  drinks  contributes  directly  to  the  obesity 
epidemic  that  plagues  far  too  many  New  Yorkers, 
especially our children. 

Bloomberg  Philanthropies  has  also  begun  to 
address  another  major  and  non-contagious  cause  of 
death  and  disability  in  the  world  with  another  vital 
change in the fabric of our daily life, that is, improving 
road  safety,  especially  in  rapidly  motorizing  nations. 
We  have 
low-  and  middle-income 
countries  that  account  for  nearly  half  of  road  deaths 
globally. 
In  partnership  with  Governments  and 
non-governmental  organizations,  we  have  begun  to 
improve 
for 
example, passing and enforcing seat belt laws and laws 
requiring motorcyclists to wear helmets. We have also 
focused  on  traffic  engineering  that  improves  road 
safety, and on upgrading  urban transport that not only 
unclogs  crowded  roads  and  streets  but  that  also 
enhances air quality and quality of life. 

life  are  deeply 
interrelated,  and  so,  thankfully,  are  their  solutions. As 
Chair  of  the  C40  Cities  Climate  Leadership  Group,  I 
can  say  that  improving  transit  and  other  steps  that 
cities  around  the  world  are  taking  to  shrink  their 
The  problems  of  modern 
identified  10 
life-saving  policies.  Those 
include, 

carbon footprints have the immediate additional benefit 
of also improving air quality and public health. In fact, 
one of the key lessons we have learned is that making 
our  environment  healthier  often  creates  such  multiple 
benefits. 

Before  I  conclude,  let  me  also  quickly  touch  on 
four other lessons. First, we have learned that changing 
the  social  and  physical  environment  is  more  effective 
than  changing  individual  behaviour  alone.  Making 
workplaces  and  places  of  entertainment  smoke-free, 
reconfiguring city streets to make them safer, creating 
ways  for  consumers  to  find  healthy  foods  are  social 
and physical changes that not only make the healthiest 
route, but are also the ones easiest to follow.  

Secondly,  and  this  is  very  important  in  today’s 
world, healthy solutions are not necessarily costly; far 
from it. New York’s smoke-free air act, our restrictions 
on trans-fats and other requirements concerning calorie 
postings in restaurants cost virtually nothing in public 
funds  to  implement.  Raising  cigarette  taxes  raises 
public revenues.  

Thirdly,  collaboration  with  the  private  sector,  as 
in  the  national  salt-reduction  initiative,  and  with  non-
governmental organizations, as in traffic safety efforts 
worldwide,  is  very  important.  Collaboration  across 
borders  among  national  and  local  Governments  and 
agencies  is  also  critical.  The  challenges  before  us  are 
too  vast  and  complex  for  individual  Governments  to 
overcome alone. 

Fourthly,  and  finally,  while  Government  action 
alone  is  not  sufficient,  it  is  nevertheless  absolutely 
essential. There are powers that only Governments can 
exercise,  policies  that  only  Governments  can  mandate 
and  enforce,  and  results  that  only  Governments  can 
achieve.  To  halt 
the  worldwide  epidemic  of 
non-communicable diseases, Governments at all levels 
must make  healthy solutions the default social option. 
That is, ultimately, Government’s highest duty. 
As  one  of  the  spiritual  founders  of  the  United 

Nations,  America’s  Franklin  Delano  Roosevelt,  once 
put  it,  “the  State’s  paramount  concern  should  be  the 
health of its people”. So why do we not all resolve to 
renew our efforts now to  address the worldwide crisis 
of  non-communicable  diseases  and  bring  better  health 
and greater hope to all the people of our good Earth. 

8 

11-50546 

important 
is  standing  shoulder 


Statement by the President 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Allow  me  to 

express  to  all  participants  my  profound  gratitude  for 
the results achieved at this meeting. The past two days 
of  intense  discussions  were  a  clear  indication  that  the 
international  community 
to 
shoulder  in  its  efforts  to  combat  non-communicable 
diseases. 

I  wish  to  express  my  gratitude  to  the  two 
co-facilitators,  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Sylvie  Lucas, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Luxembourg,  and  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Raymond  Wolfe, 
Permanent 
Representative of Jamaica. I would also like to express 
appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General,  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  pioneering  efforts  on  this 
issue  and  for  his  report  on  the  prevention  and  control 
(A/66/83),  which 
of  non-communicable  diseases 
provided 
inspiration 
for 
the  Political 
Declaration we have adopted (resolution 66/2, annex).  

I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  co-Chairs  of  the 
round  tables  held  in  the  framework  of  the  High-level 
Meeting;  the  Director-General  of  the  World  Health 
Organization  (WHO),  Ms.  Margaret  Chan;  the  Mayor 
of  the  City  of  New  York,  the  Honourable  Michael 
Bloomberg;  and  all 
their 
contribution  to  ensuring  a  successful  outcome  of  this 
meeting. 

In the Political Declaration adopted yesterday, the 
Assembly  has  emphasized,  in  one  clear  voice,  that 
non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs)  will  no  longer  be 
excluded 
on 
development.  There  is  now  a  clear  mandate  and 
responsibility  to  confront  this  challenge  of  epidemic 
proportions,  which  curtails  economic  growth  and 
widens social disparities. The Declaration will resonate 
for  years  to  come  and  guide  the  efforts  of  the 
international  community 
to  comprehensively  and 
decisively  address  the  risk  factors  and  underlying 
determinants of health. 

Going  forward,  we  will  need  to  monitor  the 
implementation of our  commitments very  closely. The 
General  Assembly  will,  at  its  sixty-seventh  session, 
consider  options  for  strengthening  and  facilitating 
multisectoral  action  for  the  prevention  and  control  of 
non-communicable diseases through effective partnership.  

At  the  same  time,  WHO  will  be  preparing 
recommendations  for  voluntary  global  targets  before 
international 
the  participants 
for 
from 
discussions 
A/66/PV.8
the end of 2012. WHO was also tasked with developing 
indicators and a monitoring framework before the end 
of next year. Therefore, these next steps, as well as the 
progress report of the Secretary-General and the review 
and  assessment  of  implementation  of  the  Political 
Declaration in 2014, will allow us to measure real-time 
progress  in  addressing  these  serious  threats  to  health 
and development. The task of political leaders will  be 
to promote and implement this new initiative. Nations 
and  peoples  around  the  world  are  looking  forward  to 
the Assembly’s efforts to implement the Declaration. 

Let me also recognize the important role of civil 
society  organizations  as  we  proceed  to  implement  the 
Declaration.  Those  entities  will  be  key  partners  in 
service  delivery,  outreach  and  awareness-raising 
activities. 

I  would  like  to  offer  an  observation.  It  seems  to 
me that attention to public health lacks balance. Focus 
has  been  increasingly  given  to  a  limited  number  of 
diseases,  while  those  who  suffer,  for  example,  from 
other  physical  and  mental  diseases  do  not  seem  to 
enjoy  the  same  level  of  attention,  even  though  these 
diseases are no less serious.  

While  the  four  diseases  discussed  over  the  past 
two  days  are  critical,  they  are  by  no  means  the  only 
that  create  a  major 
non-communicable  diseases 
challenge 
to  development 
and 
In 
particular,  mental  health,  including  depression,  is  a 
major  threat  to  the  health  and  well-being  of  people 
worldwide.  Going  forward,  I  would  encourage  the 
Assembly  to  broaden  its  definition  of  non-communicable 
diseases  to  include  these  other  conditions,  while 
maintaining the same degree of focus and vigilance in 
its efforts. 
Health  and  development  are  issues  dear  to  my 

heart,  and  I  focus  on  them  intently.  I  will  continue  to 
provide  all  possible  assistance  to  the  Assembly  in  its 
efforts during the sixty-sixth session and beyond.  
After  two  days  of  debate  and  despite  the  many 

challenges  we  face,  I  remain  optimistic  about  our 
ability to lead the way in tackling the world’s foremost 
health  threat  and  to  advance  our  social  and  economic 
development  in  the  decades  ahead.  Above  all  else, 
however,  I  am  counting  on  the  Assembly  and  its 
partnership. Together, we can save many, many lives. 
livelihoods. 
11-50546 

9 
the 
to 
actions 
Although 
undertaken  many 
the  General  Assembly  on 
A/66/PV.8 


I now give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Adam 
Fronczak, Under-secretary of State for the Ministry of 
Health of Poland. 
Mr.  Fronczak  (Poland):  It  is  a  great  honour  for 

me  to  participate  in  this  debate  and  to  have  the 
opportunity to share national experiences at this High-
level  Meeting  of 
the 
and  Control  of  Non-communicable 
Prevention 
Diseases (NCDs).  

While  recognizing  the  primary  role  of  national 
Governments in preventing and controlling NCDs, it is 
necessary to emphasize the importance of international 
cooperation,  in  particular  the  engagement  of  highly 
competent  institutions,  such  as  the  World  Health 
Organization (WHO).  
international  community  has 

already 
combat 
non-communicable diseases, we still have much to do. 
I  would  like  to  point  out  that,  in  the  framework  of 
bilateral  cooperation,  we  have  implemented  many 
initiatives  related  to  improving  health  policy  and  the 
health-care  system,  preventing  disability,  reducing 
health  inequality,  increasing  health  awareness  and  its 
impact,  and 
fighting  non-communicable  diseases, 
which is the subject of our meeting today. 

Currently, Poland is facing the great challenge of 
presiding  over  the  Council  of  the  European  Union.  It 
was  clear  to  us  that  health  —  an  issue  that  concerns 
everyone  —  had  to  be  included  in  the  list  of  priority 
objectives  for  our  presidency,  which  constitutes  an 
opportunity  for  Poland  to  present  its  initiatives  and 
achievements,  as  well  as  its  ongoing  and  planned 
activities.  

When  discussing  the  issues  of  public  health  and 
the  fight  against  non-communicable  diseases,  one  has 
to  take  into  consideration  factors  affecting  health. 
These are understood as well-being, and not just as the 
absence  of  disease.  Important  issues  include  lifestyle, 
occupational 
genetic 
determinants  of  health.  It  is  particularly  important  to 
meet 
challenge  posed  by 
non-communicable  diseases  not  only  by  focusing  on 
reparative medicine but also by addressing prevention, 
prophylaxis,  education  and  the  promotion  of  good 
health.  Strategic  actions 
into  account 
populations’ needs, that emphasize positive impacts on 
health and that employ a multidisciplinary approach to 
the  public  health 
factors 
health 
that 
take 
risk 
and 

two 
issues: 
in  health  policy  and 
the  problem  of  non-communicable  diseases  will  be 
necessary. 

Currently,  in  this  field  of  cooperation,  we  place 
most  emphasis  on 
reducing  health 
inequality  and  fighting  against  non-communicable 
diseases. As far as reducing health inequality in society 
is  concerned,  we  are  concentrating  on  the  issue  of 
public  health 
the  role  of 
promotion,  prophylaxis,  education  and  prevention  as 
tools  enabling  us  to  shape  health-conscious  attitudes 
from the early stages of life to active  old age. We  are 
also  focusing  on  diminishing  health,  social  and 
economic inequalities for the elderly. 

Mr.  Boolell  (Mauritius),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

In  the  fight  against  chronic  non-communicable 
diseases, we are concentrating particularly on lifestyle 
issues  and  on  combating  addictions.  Over  the  past 
40 years,  European  countries  have  made  significant 
progress  in  preventing  death  and  prolonging  life,  as 
reflected  in  longer  life  spans  and  decreases  in  infant 
mortality.  
As far as the issue of smoking and alcohol abuse 

are  concerned,  we  must  emphasize 
those 
addictions  constitute  the  main  risk  factors  of  diseases 
in  Europe.  Our  experience  in  analysing  them  leads  to 
the  conclusion  that  it  is  necessary  to  apply  a  global 
approach  to  the  problem.  Europe  has  the  highest 
alcohol  consumption  rate  in  the  world;  consumption 
per  capita  is  twice  the  worldwide  average.  Moreover, 
the  alcohol  consumption  rate  is  growing  fastest  in 
countries  with  low  and  middle  incomes,  in  which 
consumption previously was much lower. 

Premature  deaths  —  those  occurring  before  the 
age  of  60  —  can  be  largely  prevented  by  effective 
actions  aimed  at  the  four  common  modifiable  risk 
factors. Better management of such actions can reduce 
morbidity,  disability  and  mortality  rates  and  improve 
health.  Still,  despite  substantial 
resources  being 
available in Europe — along with intriguing ideas and 
solutions 
in  some 
countries  —  the  situation  in  most  European  countries 
has not improved. 

It  is  impossible  not  to  appreciate  the  actions 
undertaken by the World Health Organization. The new 
Health 2020 strategic document and the Action Plan for 
implementation  of  the  European  Strategy  for  the 
that  have  been 
implemented 
that 
10 

11-50546 
the  methods  for 


Prevention 
and  Control  of  Non-communicable 
Diseases 2012-2016 should become our signposts. The 
synergy between the initiatives of the European Union 
and the United Nations should also be recognized, and 
I  see  our  meeting  as  an  excellent  opportunity  for  the 
mutual reinforcement of actions. Those processes may 
also  support  the  development  of  national  policies  for 
fighting  non-communicable  diseases,  alleviate  certain 
difficulties  in  the  integration  of  national  programmes, 
and  accept  the  need  for  co-management  of  national 
policies in global policy. 

We  would  also  like  to  encourage  our  partners  to 
join  high-level  discussions  about  the  increase  in  the 
incidence  of  non-communicable  diseases  and 
its 
socio-economic context, referred to by the WHO in its 
reports. Poland also supports multisectoral consultations to 
focus  attention  on  the  means  and  tools  for  fighting 
non-communicable  diseases  as  an  integral  part  of 
global development. 
At  the  global  level,  our  agreements  should 

indicate 
implementation  of 
measures  aimed  at  combating  non-communicable 
diseases. Considering the objectives mentioned earlier, 
the  initiative  to  make  those  issues  the  priority  in  the 
operations  of  our  meeting  is  particularly  significant.  I 
assure  the  Assembly  that  Poland  will  give  its  full 
attention  to  the  comments,  proposals,  suggestions  and 
recommendations  of  our  partners,  and  will  engage  in 
an interactive dialogue in order to achieve the defined 
objectives. In realizing those initiatives, Poland counts 
on  the  support  of  the  WHO,  with  its  invaluable 
expertise and experience. 

I would like to thank the United Nations and the 
General  Assembly  once  again  for  organizing  this 
Meeting,  and  I  declare,  in  the  name  of  Poland,  our 
openness and dedication to the pursuit of our common 
goal. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

Her  Excellency  Ms.  Veronika  Skvortsova,  Deputy 
Minister  for  Health  and  Social  Development  of  the 
Russian Federation. 
Ms.  Skvortsova  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  In  Russia  as  in  the  rest  of  the  world, 
non-communicable  diseases  are  the  main  cause  of 
morbidity  and  mortality.  They  pose  a 
to 
everyone’s health and constitute a key macroeconomic 
and  political  factor  affecting  the  development  of 
society. 
the 
threat 
A/66/PV.8

For  the  Russian  Federation,  the  health  of  its 
citizens  is  an  absolute  priority.  In  the  course  of 
10 years,  health  financing  has  increased  over  sixfold. 
Against  the  backdrop  of  an  actively  pursued  national 
health-care reform, we are implementing a nationwide 
fight  against  tobacco  and  alcohol  abuse  and  pursuing 
strategies 
to  promote  healthy  diets,  encourage 
participation  in  sport  and  foster  healthy  lifestyles.  At 
the  same  time,  we  are  implementing  priority  national 
programmes to fight and prevent the most common and 
socially  impactful  non-communicable  diseases.  Those 
measures have allowed us within less than five years to 
increase life expectancy in Russia by almost four years, 
to reduce the rate of mortality by more than 9 per cent, 
and to improve health indicators. 
At  the  initiative  of  the  Government  of  the 

Russian Federation and the World Health Organization 
(WHO),  the  First  Global  Ministerial  Conference  on 
Healthy  Lifestyles  and  Non-communicable  Diseases 
was  held  in  Moscow  in  April  2011.  The  Moscow 
Conference  played  a  key  role  in  the  preparation  and 
holding  of  today’s  High-level  Meeting.  We  wish  to 
thank  all  participants  for  their  active  engagement, 
consideration and adoption of the Moscow Declaration, 
as  well  as  the  special  WHO  resolution  adopted  on  its 
basis. 

lifestyles,  addressing  risk 
factors and creating a common preventive environment 
constitute the real way forward to reduce the burden of 
non-communicable diseases. However, that goal can be 
achieved  only  through  joint  actions  of  the  whole 
society,  including  Government  and  all  State  sectors, 
ministries  and  agencies,  the  business  sector,  civil 
society and individuals. The development of a cohesive 
and  system-wide  health-care  policy  at 
local, 
national  and  regional  levels  is  the  goal  by  which  the 
success  of  global  initiatives  and  activities  will  be 
defined. 

Russia  is  increasing  its  contribution  to  global 
health  care.  According  to  an  agreement  with  WHO, 
more than $36 million have been allocated for a project 
to fight non-communicable diseases in other countries. 
The  main  purpose  of  the  project  is  to  implement  the 
provisions  of 
the  Moscow  Declaration  aimed  at 
developing 
the  monitoring  of  non-communicable 
diseases  and  health  determinants,  controlling  risk 
factors  and  preventing  non-communicable  diseases, 
improving  health  care  for  people  suffering  from 
non-communicable  diseases,  and  fostering  international 
Promoting  healthy 
the 
11-50546 

11 

to  reduce 
A/66/PV.8 

partnerships  and  strengthening  global  multisectoral 
cooperation. 

Understanding  that  non-communicable  diseases 
are inextricably linked to mother and child health, the 
Russian  Federation  will  also  allocate  $75  million  to  a 
five-year  programme 
infant  and  child 
mortality  as  part  of  the  Muskoka  Initiative  of  the 
Group  of  Eight.  Aware  of  the  possible  link  between 
non-communicable  diseases  and  certain 
infectious 
diseases  such  as  HIV/AIDS,  Russia  has  contributed 
$270 million towards development of the Global Fund 
to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria. In May next 
year we are to adopt a WHO resolution that should set 
out specific terms for further collective action. 

I  would  like  to  conclude  with  the  words  of  the 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Russian  Federation,  Vladimir 
Putin,  at  the  opening  of  the  First  Global  Ministerial 
Conference on  Healthy  Lifestyles  and  Non-communicable 
Disease Control: 

“The principles of healthy lifestyles and the need 
to  combine  efforts  to  fight  non-communicable 
diseases  should  without  doubt  become 
the 
defining  items  on  the  global  agenda  aimed  at 
meeting the Millennium Development Goals. We 
need  to  have  already  reached  certain  landmarks 
by 
community, 
Governments and organizations all over the world 
still have time before 2015.” 
May we all succeed in our efforts.  
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Sohibnazar  Rahmonov,  Deputy 
Minister for Health of Tajikistan. 
Mr.  Rahmonov  (Tajikistan)  (spoke  in  Russian): 

Allow  me  to  thank  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly  for  the  invitation  to  take  part  in  this 
significant  and  pivotal  forum  for  all  people  on  the 
prevention  of  non-communicable  diseases. We  believe 
that this meeting will effectively unite the efforts of the 
international  community  in  combating  this  contemporary 
scourge  of  humanity,  namely,  non-communicable  diseases 
(NCDs,)  which  are  achieving  epidemic  proportions  in 
many countries. 

It  is  well  known  that  many  indicators  of  the 
health  and  lifestyle  of  populations  depend  upon  a 
multitude of objective and subjective factors, including, 
in  particular,  genetic,  geographic,  socio-political  and 
economic factors.  
2015.  The 
professional 
linked 
faced  a 
undertook 
Epidemiological 
those  conditions, 
to 
response 
of  Tajikistan 
Following  the  collapse  of  the  Union  of  Soviet 

Socialist  Republics,  Tajikistan 
serious 
economic  predicament  due  to  unexpected  emerging 
problems 
to  energy,  communication  and 
information  isolation  that  inevitably  affected  the  core 
health indicators of the entire Tajik nation. The period 
of  civil  war  exacerbated  the  country’s  economic 
In 
situation. 
the 
Government 
decisive, 
ambitious  steps  to  reform  the  national  health-care 
system  and  medical  education.  In  hindsight  those 
efforts appear entirely justified and timely. 

My  country  has  mainstreamed  evidence-based 
medicine  into  practical  medicine,  thus  enabling  us  to 
conform  national  diagnostic  and  treatment  procedures 
with  international  standards.  We  have  enhanced  the 
management quality of clinical practices and facilitated 
the work of practising doctors. 

We  are  well  aware  that  the  mental  and  physical 
health of the nation’s people is a national asset of vital 
capacities  that  defines  society’s  further  progress  in  its 
economic, social and cultural development.  
the  adult 

population  has  enabled  us  to  ascertain  the  prevalence 
of  certain  risk  factors  of  ischaemic  heart  disease.  As 
part  of  that  research,  we  detected  a  high  rate  of 
smoking,  including  tobacco  chewing,  among  men.  In 
the  general  population,  arterial  hypertension  was 
identified  in  more  than  22  per  cent  of  the  adult 
population. To a lesser degree, the prevalence rates of 
risk factors including obesity and high cholesterol were 
also detected.  

In  step  with  the  problems  detected,  the  country 
adopted  a  national  programme  on  the  prevention, 
diagnosis and treatment of ischaemic heart disease. As 
part  of 
implementation,  general 
investments  in  heart  surgery  and  services  in  the 
Republic  have  risen  more  than  100  per  cent  over  the 
past 10 years. That has led to significant reductions in 
cardiovascular  morbidity  and  mortality  rates  and  has 
allowed us to mainstream new diagnosis and treatment 
technologies. 
In view of the high rate of smoking in Tajikistan, 

we adopted a law to limit the use of tobacco products, 
which  has  already  paid  dividends.  The  Republic  is 
successfully  implementing  a  national  programme  on 
the  prevention,  early  diagnosis  and 
treatment  of 
diabetes and oncological diseases.  
the  programme’s 
research  among 
12 

11-50546 
the  same 



Tajikistan, like any developing country, continues 
to  face  problems  related  to  the  increasing  severity  of 
NCDs.  As  a  result,  losses  in  economic  and  human 
terms remain high and rise in step with the population’s 
urbanization, as well as its ageing. 
The  economic  and  financial  crisis  of  modern 

society  has  worsened 
the  situation.  Yet  making 
progress  in  modern  medicine  and  health  care  will  not 
be  possible  without  sufficient  funding.  All  of  those 
issues  dictate  the  fundamental  need  for  additional 
resources and their more effective use in critical areas, 
while  at 
time  developing  multifaceted 
preventive  interventions  tailored  to  each  member  of 
society,  each  collective  and  the  entire  population  and 
based  on  the  specific  social,  cultural,  ethnic,  climatic 
and  geographic  factors  in  a  situation  of  limited 
resources.  
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

Her  Excellency  Mrs.  Fatima  Franco,  Deputy  Minister 
for Health of Ecuador. 
Mrs. Franco (Ecuador) (spoke in Spanish): We in 

the  Ministry  of  Health  of  the  Republic  of  Ecuador 
would 
the 
agreement  expressed  at  this  and  previous  meetings 
regarding  progress 
the  collective  and  global 
development  of  actions  and  strategies  to  prevent  and 
control chronic non-communicable diseases.  

For Ecuador, the concept of well-being is one of 
the guides of our actions. It represents a state of well-
being  and  abundance,  shifting  the  paradigm  to  a  State 
where  the  well-being  of  people  is  not  subjected  to 
economic interests. 

Under  this  concept  and  in  the  framework  of  the 
national policies, of the position of the member States 
of  the  Union  of  South  American  Nations  and  of  the 
proposal  by  the  Group  of  77  in  the  setting  of  the 
Political  Declaration  of  this  great  meeting  (resolution 
66/2,  annex),  Ecuador  emphasizes  its  support  along 
two lines. 

First,  we  refer  to  universal  access  to  medicines 
and  to  the  World  Trade  Organization’s  Agreement  on 
Trade-Related  Aspects  of  Intellectual  Property  Rights 
(TRIPS). Ecuador reaffirms its support for the explicit 
mention  of 
that 
Agreement, as they will enable us to reduce barriers to 
access  to  medicines  through  promoting  the  legitimate 
claim that the right to health is a human right. That is 
to  express  our  satisfaction  with 
the  flexibilities 
the  use  of 
like 
in 
in 
A/66/PV.8
it 
is  necessary 
Furthermore,  we  believe 
tobacco  consumption,  which 
reaffirmed  in  the  Doha  Declaration  and  in  the  Global 
Strategy  on  Public  Health  Innovation  and  Intellectual 
Property.  

to 
promote  international  cooperation  in  the  mobilization 
of  resources  and  technical  assistance  in  capacity-
building aimed at implementation of the flexibilities of 
the TRIPS Agreement, especially in the developing and 
least developed countries. This support will encourage 
and  complement  actions  and  strategies  established  by 
those  countries  to  improve  the  quality  of  life  of  their 
inhabitants. 
The  second  area  that  Ecuador  supports  is  the 

issue  of 
involves  a 
conflict  of  interest  between  the  tobacco  industry  and 
public  health.  It  is  therefore  important  for  Member 
States  to  adopt  the  measures  established  in  the  World 
Health  Organization  Framework  Convention  on 
Tobacco Control and integrate them into their national 
policies  and  programmes.  In  that  regard,  this  year 
Ecuador enacted its organic law on tobacco control and 
regulation. 
We  are  aware  that  the  fight  against  tobacco 

consumption  is  one  of  the  tools  that  can  be  used  to 
reduce  the  incidence  of  chronic  non-communicable 
diseases.  We  believe  that  this  platform  could  be 
replicated  to  give  impetus  to  the  establishment  of 
global commitments that could become an international 
standard  for  the  prevention  and  control  of  diabetes,  a 
disease that has caused about 1.3 million deaths around 
the world and is the leading cause of death in Ecuador. 
We  extend  a  special  invitation  to  the  food  industry  to 
join in this struggle. 
Eager  to  safeguard  the  primacy  of  public  health, 

to  work 
Ecuador  encourages  all  Member  States 
together  and  develop  international  standards  that  will 
enable  us  to  implement  new  and  innovative  strategies 
to combat chronic non-communicable diseases.  
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

Mr.  Munawar  Saeed  Bhatti,  Additional  Foreign 
Secretary  of  the  Ministry  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Pakistan. 
Mr.  Bhatti  (Pakistan):  We  would  like  to  thank 

the President for organizing this High-level Meeting of 
the General Assembly on Non-communicable Diseases.  

As an active member of the Group of 77, Pakistan 
the  Group.  We 
recognizes 
role  played  by 
the 
11-50546 

13 
related 
Eighty  per  cent  of  all  deaths 
A/66/PV.8 

particularly  appreciate  the  role  played  by  Caribbean 
countries  in  drawing  the  world’s  attention  to  this 
important issue. 

to 
non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs)  are  in  low-  and 
middle-income countries and constitute  50 per cent of 
the total disease burden. In Pakistan, NCDs are among 
the  top  10  causes  of  mortality  and  morbidity,  causing 
almost 25 per cent of total deaths. The cost of diabetes 
alone  is  between  2  and  4  per  cent  of  gross  domestic 
product. Diabetes-related costs can eat up 15 to 25 per 
cent  of  a  household’s  disposable  income,  which  leads 
them  to  cut  down  on  expenditures  on  other  basic 
requirements.  This  High-level  Meeting  provides  us  a 
welcome opportunity to express our political resolve to 
address that challenge.  

In  order  to  address  NCD-related  challenges, 
Pakistan  is  considering  a  number  of  cross-sectoral 
policy interventions. These include high-level political 
commitment  and  the  involvement  of  communities  and 
health  care  providers  in  creating  awareness  of  and 
preventing  NCDs,  mapping  existing  health  facilities 
and  assessing 
to  address  NCDs, 
establishing  uniform  standards  for  the  public  and 
private  sectors  alike,  incorporating  NCD  prevention 
and 
strategies, 
promoting  research  and  building  human  resource 
capacities,  and  developing  partnerships  with  all 
stakeholders, including international organizations.  

that 
partnerships with the international community can play 
an  important  role  in  the  prevention  and  control  of 
NCDs,  especially  by  helping  developing  countries  in 
research  and  development  and  by  sharing  technology. 
The  leading  pharmaceutical  companies  should  fulfil 
their  corporate  social  responsibility  by  ensuring  the 
availability  of  affordably  priced  medicines  for  the 
prevention  and  control  of  NCDs,  particularly 
in 
developing countries. 

give the floor to the representative of Monaco. 
Ms.  Picco  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French):  First  of 

all,  allow  me  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  the 
quality  of  his  report  (A/66/83),  and  the  World  Health 
Organization  (WHO)  for  playing  a  leading  role  in  the 
international  community’s  struggle  to  prevent  and 
control  non-communicable  diseases,  with  the  World 
Health Assembly approving the Global Strategy for the 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
I  must  highlight 
their  capacity 
into  poverty 
I  conclude, 
reduction 
control 
Before 

As 
far  as 
inhabitant, 
and  Control  of  Non-communicable 
Prevention 
Diseases in 2000.  

Diseases  that  we  now  describe  as  epidemics  — 
cardiovascular  diseases,  cancers,  chronic  respiratory 
diseases and diabetes, but also neuro-degenerative, rare 
and  congenital  diseases  —  are  the  leading  causes  of 
death  in  the  world,  as  more  than  3  of  every  5  people 
die from one of them.  

Developing countries and the inhabitants of low-
income  countries  suffer  the  most.  That  is  why  the 
Principality  of  Monaco  is  deeply  involved  in  the 
implementation  of  health  programmes  as  part  of  its 
development  cooperation  activities.  With  an  official 
development  assistance  allocation  equivalent 
to 
€300 per  year  per 
the  Principality  of 
Monaco  channels  about  half  of  that  amount  to  fund 
initiatives in the health and social sectors. This funding 
is  used  to  provide  training  for  health  care  personnel, 
fight  malnutrition,  improve  access  to  safe  drinking 
water  and  treat  children  suffering  from  leukaemia,  as 
well as to build or renovate health centres and health-
care infrastructure.  
the  prevention  and  control  of 

non-communicable  diseases  is  concerned,  Monaco  is 
non-governmental 
committed 
organizations,  health 
international 
organizations, in particular WHO. The Government of 
the  Principality  has 
therefore  established  several 
partnerships  with  hospitals  so  that  Monaco’s  heath 
entities  can  help  to  improve  and  build  the  skills  of 
medical workers in countries partnering with its Office 
of 
to 
reinforcing the health-care capacities of those States.  

Through  those  partnerships,  Monaco  has  been 
able  to  provide  hospital  care  for  children  whose 
conditions  are  inoperable  in  their  countries  of  origin. 
Since the project’s inception in 2008, medical care has 
been  provided 
to  139  children  with  heart  or 
orthopaedic conditions.  

Monaco has also developed a partnership with the 
International Atomic Energy Agency in the framework 
of  its  Programme  of  Action  for  Cancer  Therapy,  the 
objective of  which is to improve the quality of life  of 
cancer  patients  by  building  capacities  in  screening, 
diagnosis, radiation therapy and palliative care.  

The improvement of global health is an essential 
component of global socio-economic development and, 
International  Cooperation,  with  a  view 
to  working  with 
institutions  and 
14 

11-50546 


therefore,  in  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. In that regard, as all of us have emphasized, the 
prevention  and  control  of  non-communicable  diseases 
cannot  be  undertaken  outside 
the  multilateral 
framework  and  without  setting  up  multisectoral 
partnerships.  In  tackling  this  new  challenge,  we  must 
make  the  most  of  our  experience  in  the  fight  against 
HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria. 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 

representative of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela.  
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My  delegation  aligns 
itself with the statements made by the representative of 
Argentina at the 7th meeting on behalf of the Group of 
77 and China, and by the representative of Uruguay at 
the  4th  meeting  on  behalf  of  the  Union  of  South 
American Nations. 

More  than  60  per  cent  of  deaths  worldwide  are 
caused  by  non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs).  They 
are  the  main  cause  of  death  in  the  world.  Developing 
countries,  especially  those  with  the  poorest  and  most 
needy populations, suffer the most from these diseases.  

There is a link between health and poverty. That 
is  why  we  must  urgently  reorient  political  action  and 
make 
it  more  human-centred.  Governments  must 
prioritize their social responsibilities over the interests 
and  profits  of 
the  big  economic  and  financial 
corporations.  It is indisputable that capitalist practices 
have  failed  and  that  we  must  take  radical  steps  to 
reverse the commercialism of health care, guaranteeing 
free  or 
to  medicines.  We  must 
therefore promote the transfer of technology and of the 
requisite capacities to developing countries in line with 
national needs and realities. 

In  Venezuela,  the  human  right  to  health  is 
enshrined at the constitutional level and is governed by 
the  principles  of  freedom  from  cost,  universality, 
comprehensiveness, 
integration, 
multi-ethnicity and multiculturalism.  

The right to health is a basic human right, and in 
consequence,  the  promotion  of,  respect  for,  access  to 
and 
inalienable 
commitment of the Bolivarian Government. Our 2009-
2013  national  health  plan  was  designed  with  the  full, 
active  and  organized  participation  of  the  people. 
Through  the  plan,  we  have  enhanced,  in  a  universal 
manner,  comprehensive  attention  to  health  and  the 
low-cost  access 
realization  of 
equality, 
is  an 
social 
this 
right 
A/66/PV.8
reduced 
successful 
extreme  poverty, 
First,  pain  management  medication 
right  to  health.  The  qualitative  improvement  in  the 
quality  of  life  of  all  men  and  women  in  Venezuela  is 
demonstrable.  

Despite  the  awful  financial  turmoil  caused  by 
neoliberal policies around the world, our revolutionary 
Government  continues  to  guarantee  the  continuity  of 
its 
social  programmes.  These  have 
drastically 
eradicated 
illiteracy  and  guaranteed  free  access  to  health  care 
throughout the country.  
Social  investment  is  the  primary  axis  of  our 

national budget allocations. In 2010, more than 60 per 
cent  of  fiscal  revenue  was  reserved  for  social 
investment,  and  over  the  past  decade  such  spending 
totalled more than $400 billion. About 9 per cent of the 
national  budget  for  2011  was  reserved  for  the  health 
sector. This  represents  an  increase  of  more  than  7  per 
cent  since  1999,  when  the  revolutionary  Government 
of Hugo Chávez Frías commenced. This policy has led 
to  several  significant  improvements  in  the  health 
sector.  

is  being 
distributed  free  of  charge  for  chemotherapy  through 
our  national  oncology  programme.  Secondly, 
the 
network  of  cancer  centres  in  the  country  has  been 
strengthened,  and  chemotherapy  and  radiation  therapy 
are provided either free of charge or at a very low cost. 
Thirdly, workshops have been held on the promotion of 
a  healthy  lifestyle,  during  which  informational  and 
educational  materials  were  distributed  with  messages 
designed to promote life-enhancing practices. Fourthly, 
a  national 
anti-tobacco  programme  has  been 
implemented,  which  includes  a  resolution  that  bans 
smoking  in  enclosed  spaces  that  came  into  force 
recently,  in  mid-2011.  Fifthly,  projects  and  measures 
have  been  developed  aimed  at  cleaning  up 
the 
environment  in  order  to  combat  diseases  caused  by 
environmental  factors.  Sixthly,  22  new  hospitals  have 
been built.  

Thanks  to  the  construction  of  the  Dr.  Gilberto 
Rodríguez  Ochoa  Latin  American  Children’s 
Cardiology Hospital, 80 per cent of children born with 
heart  problems  are  cared  for  free  of  charge.  That  has 
substantially  reduced  child  mortality,  which  currently 
stands at 13 per 1,000 in Venezuela, while the average 
for Latin America is 29 per 1,000. Ten years ago, only 
2  per  cent  of  children  born  with  heart  problems  had 
11-50546 

15 
like 
like 
to  state 
I  would 
In  conclusion, 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
A/66/PV.8 

access  to  free  health  care.  This  cause  of  infant 
mortality is the most common in Venezuela.  

In  August  2011,  President  Hugo  Chávez  Frías 
approved the creation of the National Cancer Institute, 
which  will  be  involved  in  research  and  teaching 
programmes as well as policy formulation and statistics 
in  coordination  with  the  national  network  of  cancer 
hospitals and medical services. 

that 
international  cooperation  and  the  implementation  of 
commitments  for  official  development  assistance  and 
of  the  flexible  provisions  of  the Agreement  on Trade-
Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights are the 
main  axes  for  the  implementation  of  policies  to 
guarantee access to medicine and thus the human right 
to health. 

representative of San Marino. 
Mr. Bodini (San Marino): As this is the first time 

that  I  speak  during  the  sixty-sixth  session  of  the 
General  Assembly,  I  would 
to  congratulate 
Ambassador Al-Nasser  on  his  election  as  President  of 
the  General Assembly.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General for his strong support for the success 
of  this  High-level  Meeting  on  the  Prevention  and 
Control of Non-communicable Diseases. 

have 
reached epidemic proportions and are the biggest cause 
of  death  worldwide.  This  scourge  creates  in  our 
societies  not  only 
and 
psychological  tragedy,  but  an  unaffordable  financial 
burden  for  all  of  us.  It  is  estimated  that  by  2030  the 
cumulative loss of output to the global economy could 
be between $30 and $47 trillion — a staggering amount 
of  money 
in  an  economic  environment  of 
increasing  resource  scarcity,  is  totally  unacceptable. 
The  increasing  cost  of  health  care  worldwide  is  a 
serious  threat  to  sustainable  development  and  to  the 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. 

Life expectancy in San Marino, the country that I 
am honoured to represent, is well above 80 years, one 
of the highest in the world. We believe this is a result 
of a Mediterranean diet and an efficient national health 
system.  However,  even  for  our  country,  the  financial 
burden  of  such  a  system  is  becoming  a  matter  of 
concern. 
Non-communicable 
increasing 
diseases 
(NCDs) 
an 
social 

and 
sector, 
as  well 
the  private 

We therefore believe that early prevention among 
our youngsters and specific campaigns against the use 
of  cigarettes  and  alcohol  and  in  favour  of  appropriate 
diet  and  exercise  are  very  efficient  and  cost-effective 
tools to limit the spread of NCDs. We also believe that 
there  should  be  a  stronger  joint  effort  between  the 
public 
as 
non-governmental organizations.  

We  welcome  the  Political  Declaration  of  the 
High-level  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
Prevention 
and  Control  of  Non-communicable 
Diseases  (resolution  66/2,  annex),  and  we  strongly 
believe  that  all  of  us  should  strengthen  our  national 
policies  and  create  more  efficiency  in  our  health 
systems. 

Moreover, we believe that expanded international 
cooperation  is  very  important  for  small  countries  like 
ours, as well as for the developing and least developed 
countries. 

In conclusion, I would like to add that efforts to 
find  new  cures  should  be  enhanced  with  effective 
financial and fiscal incentives, so that the cost of new 
therapies  for  lifelong  NCDs  can  be  affordable  for  the 
largest number of patients. 

representative of Mauritania. 
in 

French): It is a great honour to take the floor before the 
General  Assembly,  which  is  meeting  to  discuss  the 
issue  of  the  prevention  and  control  of  non-communicable 
diseases  (NCDs),  one  of 
the  most  serious  and 
widespread  threats  to  health  care  in  the  twenty-first 
century.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
commend the Secretary-General for his excellent report 
(A/66/83). 

At the global level, as proven by the latest report of 
the World Health Organization (WHO), non-communicable 
diseases  are  the  primary  cause  of  mortality.  In  2008, 
the deaths of almost 9 million people under the age of 
60 were attributable to NCDs. Ninety per cent of these 
premature deaths happened in low- or medium-income 
countries.  

region,  non-communicable 
diseases  and  infectious  diseases  are  an  incessant  and 
increasing  dual  burden  and  a  source  of  disability  and 
premature  death.  In  Mauritania,  the  main  chronic 
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to  the 
Mr.  Ould  Hadrami  (Mauritania)  (spoke 
the  African 
In 
that, 
16 

11-50546 
Given 
to 
combating 
the  breadth  of 
is  firmly  committed, 


illnesses  are  cardiovascular  diseases,  diabetes,  cancer 
and related diseases, and mental diseases.  

An  epidemiological  study  carried  out  in  June 
2008  showed  the  frequency  and  seriousness  of  these 
pathologies  by  revealing  their  prevalence  in  the  last 
64 years:  hypertension,  22.4  per  cent;  diabetes,  6  per 
cent;  use  of  tobacco,  32.7  per  cent  in  men;  high 
cholesterol, 14.8 per cent; and overweight, 58 per cent. 
Cancers  remain  one  of  the  main  reasons  for  medical 
evacuation abroad, followed by cardiovascular disease.  

In  the  field  of  mental  health  care,  a  study  in 
Mauritania  carried  out  in  cooperation  with  the  World 
Health Organization Lyon office and the WHO bureau 
in  Nouakchott  showed  the  following  results:  35  per 
cent  of  individuals  sampled  had  at  least  one  mental 
problem, 20 per cent had problems with anxiety, 19 per 
cent  had  mood  problems,  and  2.4  per  cent  showed 
some psychotic problems. 
these  challenges,  our 

together  with  our 
country 
partners, 
following 
arrangements  are  among  those  adopted  to  effectively 
address these pathologies.  

An NCD treatment centre, a national anti-tobacco 
programme  and  a  national  mental  health  programme 
have been set up. We have created national specialized 
treatment  centres 
for  certain  non-communicable 
diseases,  including  the  Neuropsychiatric  Centre  of 
Nouakchott.  The  National  Oncology  Centre  was 
established in 2008, financed by the Mauritanian State 
itself,  which  has  been  effectively  contributing  to  the 
treatment  of  cancer  since 
the 
radiotherapy  unit  in  2011.  The  National  Cardiology 
Centre  was  set  up  in  2009.  There  is  a  national  health 
insurance  fund,  which  has  expanded  to  include  a 
number  of  social  categories  and  which  will  bolster 
other structures of medical treatment.  

Moreover, from an early date, Mauritania entered 
the  international  process  organized  to  combat  these 
diseases.  It  actively  participated  in  the  WHO  African 
Region Ministerial Consultation on Non-communicable 
Diseases  held  in  Brazzaville  from  4  to  6  April  2011, 
which 
the  Brazzaville 
Declaration  on  Non-communicable  Diseases.  It  also 
participated in the First Global Ministerial Conference 
on Healthy Lifestyles and  Non-communicable Disease 
Control, held in Moscow on 28 and 29 April, and now 
the  adoption  of 
the  creation  of 
them.  The 
led 
to 
A/66/PV.8
loyalty; 
Mr.  Mitsialis
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
the  High-level  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on 
NCDs that we are honoured to participate in here. 

The  outcome  document  sanctioning  the  work  of 
the current High-level Meeting should set as a priority 
the  prevention  and  control  of  NCDs  by  ensuring  the 
participation  of  all  public  sectors  in  partnership  with 
civil  society,  the  private  sector  and  communities,  as 
well  as  the  promotion  of  good  governance  to  prevent 
conflict or the interruption of the provision of services.  

Health-care  systems  must  be  strengthened  by 
attributing  particular  attention  to,  inter  alia,  funding 
and  training  of  health-care  personnel  and  developing 
their 
the  provision  and  distribution  of 
medication,  vaccines  and  medical  equipment;  and  the 
improvement  of  infrastructure  and  basic  cost-efficient 
and  evidence-based  services  for  the  treatment  of 
NCDs. It is also necessary, we believe, to advocate for 
the  integration  of  health  care  into  all  multisectoral 
policies in order to address the problems of NCDs and 
their risk factor determinants.  

representative of Greece. 

(Greece):  Non-communicable 
(NCDs)  are  a  challenge  of  epidemic 
diseases 
proportions 
is 
commonplace today. Those who have to deal with such 
diseases,  in  Government  or  in  the  professional  sector, 
face this reality every day. 

Also commonplace is the fact that NCDs are part 
of  today’s  way  of  life.  Unhealthy  diet  and  obesity, 
smoking,  excessive  alcohol  consumption  and  lack  of 
physical  exercise  are  worldwide  phenomena.  The 
impact  of  the  economic  crisis  on  health  is  likely  to 
worsen  the  situation  even  more  by  strengthening  its 
social determinants. 

In  Greece,  40  per  cent  of  the  population  suffer 
from chronic conditions. Almost 55 per cent of Greeks 
are  overweight,  and  49  per  cent  are  smokers.  In  the 
World  Health  Organization  (WHO)  European  region, 
NCDs account for an estimated 77 per cent of the total 
disease  burden  and  86  per  cent  of  deaths.  In  the 
European  Union,  NCDs  result  in  more  than  800,000 
premature deaths annually. 

Cardiovascular  diseases  cause  half  of  all  deaths 
in  Europe.  The  relevant  cost  for  the  European  Union 
economy  is  estimated  at  approximately  €200  billion  a 
year.  In  a  time  of  recession,  when  Governments  are 
times.  That  conclusion 
in  our 
11-50546 

17 

than 
to  do  so 
is  no  better  way 
A/66/PV.8 

looking  for  ways  to  curtail  spending,  NCDs  and 
chronic  diseases  threaten  not  only  lives  but  also  our 
economies and the development of our societies.  

All  these  facts  force  us  to  change  our  attitude. 
Addressing NCDs leads to a better life for citizens, but 
it ensures the sustainability of our health systems.  
Greece  welcomes  this  year’s  United  Nations 

High-level Meeting on Non-communicable Diseases. It 
is a significant occasion to discuss the issue and act at 
every  level  of  governance,  whether  it  be  global, 
national or local. 

Greece  is  committed  to  the  principles  discussed 
in  Moscow  last  April.  We  recognize  that  States  and 
Governments  should  be  mobilized.  We  believe  that 
there 
through 
international  collaboration.  We  acknowledge 
the 
importance  of  the  leading  role  of  the  United  Nations, 
and the role of WHO on the matter is very significant. 

Currently,  the  Hellenic  Government  is  working 
on  the  implementation  of  an  ambitious  health  reform 
programme.  By  the  comprehensive  reorganization  of 
our  national  health  system,  we  are  setting  new 
priorities. In the case of NCDs, we are giving priority 
to preventing the main risk factors. Through education 
programmes and media campaigns, we are stressing the 
importance  of  physical  activity  and  proper  nutrition. 
We are also once again emphasizing the importance of 
the Mediterranean diet. 

My  country  is  implementing  new  regulations  for 
school  canteens.  By  discouraging  the  consumption  of 
sugary  beverages  and  high-fat  or  high-salt  foods,  we 
are  encouraging  not  only  children  —  but  also  their 
families  —  to  make  better  choices  and  lead  healthier 
lives.  In  addition,  new  structures  for  nutrition  and 
physical activity in the Ministry of Health are aimed at 
promoting  the  message  that  a  healthier  lifestyle  and 
protection  against  the  scourge  of  NCDs  are  two  sides 
of  the  same  coin. Also,  there  is  room  for  optimism  in 
the  fight  against  smoking,  as  the  data  show  that  there 
has been a notable decrease in tobacco consumption. 

As  part  of  our  efforts,  we  are  also  considering 
new  ideas  on  innovative  financing  for  health  and  for 
tackling  NCDs  in  particular.  At  the  First  Global 
Ministerial  Conference  on  Healthy  Lifestyles  and 
Non-communicable  Disease  Control,  held  in  Moscow 
in April, Greece supported the proposal to introduce an 
international solidarity levy on tobacco. 
in 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 

Furthermore,  Greece  has  agreed  with  WHO  to 
establish  in  Athens  a  new  WHO  Athens  office  for 
NCDs, which will be exclusively dedicated to support 
for  policies  aimed  at  the  prevention  and  control  of 
non-communicable diseases throughout the 53 countries of 
the  European  region  of  the  WHO.  The  relevant 
agreement  was  ratified  by  the  Greek  Parliament  in 
March  2011.  Its  inauguration  will  take  place  this 
coming Friday, 23 September. 

chair of the delegation of Tuvalu. 
Mr.  Pita  (Tuvalu):  I  have  the  distinct  honour  to 

speak on behalf of the Prime Minister of Tuvalu, who, 
unfortunately,  could  not  participate 
this  very 
important  High-level  Meeting,  as  he  had  initially 
intended, owing to unforeseen circumstances. 

Health  is  undoubtedly  a  fundamental  right  for 
every  human  being  on  this  planet  and  should  be 
respected  and  protected  with  dignity.  Given 
the 
profound changes in the world today as a consequence 
of  the  impact  of  global  events,  there  is  a  critical  and 
urgent  need  for  all  countries  to  work  together  in  the 
promotion of good health for all peoples. 

In that regard, Tuvalu welcomes and underscores 
the importance and timely convening of this High-level 
Meeting, which calls for an urgent global commitment 
in 
the  prevention  and  control  of 
non-communicable diseases (NCDs). 

We  all  know  that  despite  the  seriousness  of  the 
impact  of  and  the  challenges  posed  by  NCDs,  the 
resources  required  to  combat  such  challenges  at  all 
levels are not commensurate with the magnitude of the 
problem. As a consequence, 8 million people are dying 
prematurely  every  year  in  low-  and  middle-income 
countries  from  NCDs.  Global  economies  are  affected 
by  the  threat  of  NCDs,  and  efforts  to  integrate  NCDs 
into  health  systems,  particularly  at  the  health-care 
level, are being marginalized. 

At  the  recent  meeting  of  the  Pacific  Islands 
Forum  held  in  New  Zealand,  leaders  declared:  “The 
Pacific  is  in  an  NCD  crisis”,  and  called  for  urgent 
their  respective  Governments  and  all 
action  by 
stakeholders, 
to 
address this unfolding crisis.  

Tuvalu  is  fully  committed  to  cooperating  in  the 
implementation  of  regional  programmes  on  NCDs. 
Furthermore,  in  response  to  the  crisis,  Tuvalu  has 
including  development  partners, 
response  on 
18 

11-50546 
treatment  and  care.  The  plan 


already  taken  decisive  action  through  its  national 
strategic plan for NCDs 2011-2015, with the mission of 
obtaining the highest standard of health for its people. 
The  plan  focuses  on  the  four  major  risk  factors  of 
tobacco  use,  alcohol  abuse,  physical  inactivity  and 
poor  nutrition.  The  Government  of  Tuvalu  is  also 
committed  to  developing  and  implementing  strategies 
to  strengthen  human  resources  for  health,  including 
public health and community health workers, to ensure 
equitable  access  for  people  to  NCD  prevention,  early 
detection, 
further 
highlights  the  specific  objectives  and  targets  for  the 
prevention and treatment of NCDs through cooperation 
on the part of all stakeholders, including Governments, 
the private sector and civil society. 
Tuvalu  welcomes  the  efforts  made  to  accelerate 

the implementation of approaches to address the social 
determinants  of  NCDs,  including  malnutrition,  and 
reduce the vulnerability of women, children and high-
risk populations in our communities. However, like all 
other  development  partners,  in  the  development  that 
Tuvalu pursues as a small island developing State, lack 
of  resources  and  capacity  is  a  major  challenge  that  it 
continues  to  encounter.  That  means  that  we  need 
continued assistance from the international community 
through  a  stronger  partnership 
the 
programmes required for the prevention and control of 
NCDs  in  Tuvalu.  In  particular,  we  need  universal 
access 
to  affordable,  high-quality  essential  NCD 
medicines  and  medical  technologies  for  the  diagnosis 
and 
treatment  of  diabetes,  hypertension,  asthma, 
cardiovascular  disease  and  cancer,  and  the  integration 
of  NCD  screening  into  maternal  and  child  health 
programmes. 

As  a  way  forward,  the  Government  of  Tuvalu 
stresses the urgent need for its people, and encourages 
them, to change their lifestyles and diets to reverse the 
current  situation  of  NCDs  in  Tuvalu.  We  believe  that 
we can achieve this only through the implementation of 
appropriate education and awareness programmes, with 
the  commitment  of  all  the  people  of  Tuvalu  and 
continued support from the international community. 

In this context, as a least developed country that 
continues  to  rely  on  official  development  assistance, 
Tuvalu strongly urges the international community and 
all development partners to honour their commitments 
through  the  urgent  implementation  of  the  Istanbul 
Programme  of  Action 
the  Least  Developed 
Countries,  adopted  at  the  United  Nations  Conference 
implement 
for 
to 
A/66/PV.8
through 
on  the  Least  Developed  Countries  held  in  Turkey 
earlier this year. 

In  connection  with  this  urgent  need,  Tuvalu 
wishes  to  acknowledge  with  sincere  appreciation  the 
continued  contributions  of  and  assistance  provided  by 
the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  as  one  of  its  most 
committed development partners in the prevention and 
control  of  NCDs  and  the  overall  development  of  its 
health sector. In that regard, Tuvalu strongly urges this 
body  to  recognize  that  contribution,  and  urges  in 
particular  the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO)  to 
extend the current participation of Taiwan in the World 
Health  Assembly  to  meetings  of  its  other  subsidiary 
bodies.  Taiwan’s  contribution  to  saving  the  lives  of 
millions  of  people  worldwide 
its  health 
collaboration  merits  its  full  participation  in  WHO 
meetings. 

The  cross-cutting  issue  to  whose  adverse  impact 
my  country  is  most  vulnerable  to  is  climate  change. 
Tuvalu recommends that the issue of climate change be 
integrated and mainstreamed into the NCD platform. 

To conclude, let us recall that if we want to save 
millions of people from NCDs, the time to act is now, 
not  later. All  countries  and  peoples  must  respond  and 
work  together  in  combating  NCDs  now  and  not  later. 
As  the  Secretary-General  highlighted  in  his  2011 
priorities,  success  in  rising  to  the  challenge  does  not 
belong  to  any  one  of  us;  it  depends  on  all  of  us 
together. 

representative of El Salvador. 
Mr.  García  González  (El  Salvador)  (spoke  in 

Spanish): At the outset, allow me to express, on behalf 
of  the  Government  of  El  Salvador,  our  satisfaction  at 
the convening of this important meeting of the General 
Assembly  to  consider  the  issue  of  the  prevention  and 
control of chronic non-communicable diseases (NCDs).  

the 
international  community  at  the  global  mortality  rate 
infectious  and  non-communicable 
resulting 
from 
diseases,  which 
is  exacerbated 
the  case  of 
developing  countries  as  a  result  of  demographic 
transitions  and  the  globalization  of  risk  factors.  This 
represents  one  of 
to 
development in the twenty-first century. 
the 

primary  role  and  responsibility  of  Governments  in 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
furthermore  acknowledges 
El  Salvador 
the  greatest 
El  Salvador 
challenges 
shares 
the 
concern  of 
in 
11-50546 

19 

At 
the  first  ministerial  consultation  of 
A/66/PV.8 

providing  the  first  line  of  response  to  the  challenges 
NCDs pose to our countries. We also acknowledge the 
role  of  the  international  community  and  the  need  to 
strengthen  cooperation  for  development  as  a  key 
complement  to  national  efforts  aimed  at  generating 
effective responses in the context of the prevention and 
control of chronic NCDs. 

In  this  context,  part  of  my  country’s  success  in 
preventing  and  combating  non-communicable  diseases 
is  due  to  international  cooperation.  For  years,  it  has 
provided resources so that the Government of El Salvador 
can  have  the  tools  to  implement  its  priority  health 
programmes.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
thank  the  United  States,  the  European  Union,  Spain, 
Japan,  Cuba  and  Taiwan,  among  others,  for  their 
solidarity. 

the 
Americas  on  non-communicable  diseases  and  obesity, 
which  took  place  in  Mexico  in  February,  it  was 
acknowledged that chronic non-communicable diseases 
are  the  main  cause  of  death,  premature  morbidity  and 
acquired  disabilities  in  the  Americas.  The  profound 
economic  impact  that  these  diseases  have  on  our 
countries  was  also  acknowledged.  We  agreed  that  the 
majority  of  these  diseases  are  cardiovascular  and 
respiratory diseases, diabetes and cancer, that they are 
the result of well-known risk factors such as smoking, 
alcohol  consumption,  unhealthy  diets  and  lack  of 
physical  activity,  and  that  public  and  intersectorial 
actions are required.  

With regard to El Salvador and the other Central 
American  countries,  we  wish  to  bring  up  a  chronic 
illness that severely impacts the health of our peoples: 
chronic  kidney  disease.  It  is  linked  to  environmental 
factors such as pollution and occupational risks related 
to  agricultural  practices  that  affect  a  growing  number 
of  people 
in  poverty,  marginalization  and 
vulnerability.  This  situation  therefore  requires  the 
decisive  support  of  Governments  and  international 
cooperation,  as  well  as  the  establishment  of  new 
priorities  and  the  design  of  new  strategic  approaches. 
We  urge  the  Assembly  to  consider  chronic  kidney 
disease  as  a  priority public health problem because  of 
its high social, economic and human cost, and because 
it  stands  in  the  way  of  the  development  of  our 
societies.  

By  the  same  token,  we  call  for  the  taking  into 
account of non-traditional risk factors not mentioned in 
living 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
the  4th  meeting  by 
Indonesia  on  behalf  of 
the  Political  Declaration  (resolution  66/2,  annex)  but 
which  are  of  great  importance,  such  as  workplace 
hazards and environmental pollution.  

In  conclusion,  we  reiterate  our  commitment  and 
willingness  to  work  on  a  national  plan  that  addresses 
non-communicable  diseases  and  their  attendant  risk 
factors in an integrated manner as part of the indicators 
of the Millennium Development Goals. 

representative of Viet Nam. 
Mr.  Le  Hoai  Trung  (Viet  Nam):  As  this  is  the 

first time I take the floor, I would like to congratulate 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Nassir Al-Nasser,  the Ambassador 
of  Qatar,  for  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session.  The  delegation  of 
Viet  Nam  wishes  to  express  its  great  appreciation  to 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  the  Secretary-
General, for his initiative in organizing this High-level 
Meeting.  
We  would  like  to  align  ourselves  with  the 

the 
statements  made  at 
representative  of 
the 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations,  and  by  the 
representative  of  Argentina  at  the  7th  meeting  on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 

the 
international community over the growing prevalence 
of 
Historically, 
non-communicable diseases are often associated with 
a high level of economic development. However, as we 
are  now  aware,  this  is  no  longer  true.  Statistics  show 
that 80 per cent of the deaths related to those diseases 
are now in low- or middle-income countries, and more 
than 90 per cent of the people who die before the age 
of 60 are also in low- and middle-income countries. In 
those  countries,  non-communicable  diseases  not  only 
pose  a  threat  to  public  health  but  are  also  a  serious 
challenge  to  development.  They  are  thus  undermining 
efforts toward the Millennium Development Goals. 

Like many other developing countries, Viet Nam 
is facing a double health burden. While communicable 
diseases  persist 
a  major  health  problem, 
non-communicable  diseases  have  sharply  increased. 
According  to  the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO), 
in  Viet  Nam  non-communicable  diseases  cause  more 
than  350,000  deaths  annually,  four  times  more  than 
those 
the 
from  communicable  diseases.  Among 
non-communicable 
concerns  of 
diseases. 
Viet  Nam 
shares 
the 
as 
20 

11-50546 
Recognizing 
the 
negative 
impact 


non-communicable  diseases,  cardiovascular  diseases 
accounted  for  70,000  deaths,  cancer  66,000  and 
diabetes 13,000. 

of 
non-communicable  diseases  on  its  people  and  its 
socio-economic  development,  the  Government  of  Viet 
Nam  has  identified  the  prevention  of  non-communicable 
diseases as one of the key priorities in national health 
strategies  and  policies.  Viet  Nam  has  implemented 
various  programmes  and  strategies,  such  as  the  WHO 
Framework  Convention  on  Tobacco  Control,  national 
strategies  on  nutrition  and  other  policies  on  the 
reduction of alcohol abuse and for the prevention of a 
number of non-communicable diseases.  

We  also  established  monitoring  systems  for 
non-communicable  diseases  and  have  examined  the 
risk  factors.  We  have  achieved  encouraging  progress, 
especially  in  controlling  some  of  the  non-communicable 
diseases and risk factors such as tobacco and alcohol. A 
draft law on tobacco control, prepared by the Ministry 
of  Health,  will  be  considered  by 
the  National 
Assembly.  
Also  recently,  the  Ministry  of  Health  developed 

the  2011-2015  National  Target  Programme  on  the 
Prevention  of  Non-communicable  Diseases.  By 
implementing that Programme, Viet Nam is determined 
to  reduce,  by  2015,  the  number  of  patients  that  might 
be related to a number of non-communicable diseases. 

impact  of  non-communicable 
diseases  is  severe,  they  are  preventable  and  can  be 
controlled  —  if  interventions  are  early.  Viet  Nam 
welcomes  all  international  and  regional  initiatives  to 
prevent such diseases. In that regard, I wish to express 
our  appreciation  for  the  efforts  of  the  World  Health 
Organization  and  to  thank  the  Secretary-General,  all 
United Nations organizations and other partners for the 
substantive  preparations  for  this  meeting.  We  share 
many  of 
is 
committed 
international 
cooperation to address the issue of non-communicable 
diseases.  We  believe 
take 
significant and successful steps forward. 

representative of Costa Rica. 
Mr. Ulibarri (Costa Rica) (spoke in Spanish): We 

are pleased at the convening of this High-level Meeting. It 
has  clearly  recognized  that  non-communicable  diseases 
their 
to  broad  and  effective 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
recommendations.  Viet  Nam 
that 
together  we  can 
Although 
the 
A/66/PV.8
Eight  out  of  10  Costa  Ricans  die 
represent  a  grave  problem  not  only  with  regard  to 
health  but  also  for  development,  due  to  their  serious 
economic  effects,  primarily  in  the  less  advanced 
countries.  Cardiovascular  disease,  cancer,  chronic 
respiratory  illnesses  and  diabetes  are  responsible  for 
the  deaths  of  three  out  of  every  five  people  in  the 
world.  

In Costa Rica, thanks to a decades-long effort, we 
have  been  able  to  establish  a  universal  and  efficient 
social  security  system.  This  public  health  system  has 
enabled  us  to  successfully  tackle  infectious  diseases, 
but now we are dealing with a battle that may be more 
difficult.  
from 

non-communicable  diseases.  For 
that  reason,  we 
believe this meeting to be essential. For two days it has 
brought  us  here  to  discuss  and  exchange  experiences 
and  best  practices  and  to  identify  our  limitations  in 
tackling  these  diseases.  Furthermore,  in  our  country 
23 per cent of deaths from non-communicable diseases 
are  considered  premature,  in  that  they  affect  people 
under  the  age  of  60.  Not  only  does  this  mean 
irreparable loss of life, but it also has an impact on our 
countries’  economic  growth,  with  negative  effects  on 
the socio-economic well-being of the families affected.  

In  that  regard,  responses  must  come  not  only 
from  the  health  sector;  they  must  be  multisectoral.  In 
its  most  recent  report,  the  World  Health  Organization 
(WHO)  appeals  to  the  international  community  to 
intensify  its  work  in  combating  risk  factors,  both  by 
passing  laws  and  through  education  programmes  that 
stress  the  importance  of  a  healthy  lifestyle,  as  well  as 
through  promoting  the  benefits  of  a  healthy  diet  and 
physical activity from a very early age.  
In our country, we have developed policies aimed 

at  cutting  salt  consumption 
to  avoid 
hypertension  and  reduce  obesity,  and  information 
programmes  on  food  and  more  balanced  diets,  among 
others.  We  have  also 
ramped  up  cooperative 
programmes designed to lower risk factors, but we are 
aware  that  efforts  on  prevention  and  care  must  be 
increased if we are to have concrete results. 
We  also  need  greater  commitment  in  the  area  of 

international  cooperation  and  an  effort  to  improve  the 
conditions 
that  will  allow  developing  countries, 
including  middle-income  countries  with  high  rates  of 
non-communicable  diseases,  to  access  the  financial 
resources they need to adequately equip their hospitals 
in  order 
11-50546 

21 

of 
chronic 
non-communicable 
to  WHO,  deaths 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
A/66/PV.8 

and  clinics  with  the  latest  technology  and  train  their 
primary care, clinic  and hospital staff. We call for the 
fulfilment  of  all  official  development  assistance 
commitments  and  for  promoting  North-South,  South-
South and triangular cooperation in this area. 

These past few days of discussion and the months 
preceding,  in  which  we  have  been  negotiating  the 
Political  Declaration  resulting  from 
this  meeting 
(resolution  66/2,  annex),  should  help  bring  about  a 
drop in death rates from non-communicable diseases in 
the  short  term  and  give  our  populations  a  better  life 
expectancy.  According 
from 
non-communicable diseases are preventable as long as 
Governments  commit  to  reducing  their  impact  and 
educating  the  population. That  is  why  we  are  here,  to 
share our experiences and learn from others in order to 
formulate a joint global strategy aimed at reducing the 
impact 
diseases 
worldwide. All our citizens deserve that. 

representative of Liechtenstein. 
Mr. Wenaweser (Liechtenstein): Non-communicable 

diseases  (NCDs)  have  substantial  negative  impacts  on 
human  health  and  development.  Demographic  trends 
such  as  ageing,  rapid  and  unplanned  urbanization  and 
the globalization of unhealthy lifestyles only point to a 
rise in NCD incidence in the future.  

NCDs now impose their greatest burden on low- 
and  middle-income  countries,  effectively  hitting 
hardest those with the least capacity to cope. For many, 
effective treatment costs are too high. That either puts 
access  to  health  care  out  of  reach  or  in  effect  pushes 
those  who  receive  treatment  closer  to  or  even  below 
the  poverty  line.  If  we  are  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  by  2015,  we  must  face 
this enormous challenge now. 

We  welcome  the  Political  Declaration  adopted 
yesterday  (resolution  66/2,  annex),  with  its  strong 
focus  on  prevention  and  on  population-wide  measures 
that  make  it  easier  for  people  to  adopt  healthy 
lifestyles.  The  implementation  of  the  Declaration  will 
require multisectoral action to counter the behavioural, 
environmental,  social  and  economic 
that 
contribute  to  NCDs.  Integrative  planning  and  care  for 
NCDs and the overall strengthening of health systems, 
as well as targeted interventions, will be essential. We 
welcome the activities promoted in the Declaration that 
contribute  to  this  end.  In  calling  on  the  World  Health 
factors 
from 
deaths 
exposure 
disproportionately 
annually.  Simple, 
In  our  own  country,  everybody, 
Organization  (WHO)  to  develop  a  comprehensive 
global  monitoring  framework  for  NCDs  by  2012, 
drawing  a  lesson  from  the  MDG  process,  we  have 
made our commitment to addressing NCDs.  

We  are  happy  to  see  that  the  issue  of  indoor  air 
pollution  from  inefficient  cooking  stoves  is  addressed 
in the Declaration. Day after day, women and children 
suffer 
to 
concentrations  of  toxins  from  indoor  cooking  fires, 
which  contribute  to  a  range  of  chronic  illnesses  and 
acute  health  problems  and  result 
in  1.9  million 
premature 
affordable 
solutions  exist,  and  we  support  the  work  of  the 
Women’s  Refugee  Commission,  the  Office  for  the 
Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs  and  the  Global 
Alliance for Clean Cookstoves. 

including 
children, has mandatory health insurance. From birth to 
age  nine,  insurance  includes  a  series  of  preventive 
check-ups  undertaken  by  family  paediatricians.  The 
Office of Health has focused extensively on promoting 
proper nutrition, including by providing counselling. A 
national  campaign  entitled  “Live  Consciously”  has 
launched 
initiatives  addressing  nutrition,  exercise, 
mental health and health in the workplace. In addition, 
health education in schools raises awareness on issues 
such as nutrition, physical activity, addictive behaviour 
and sexuality.  

This High-level Meeting comes at a crucial time, 
when we can still achieve the health and development 
goals  we  have  agreed  to.  We  are  confident  that  the 
focus  on  accessible  and  cost-effective  preventive 
measures,  coupled  with  the  development  of  a  new 
global  framework  for  NCDs,  provides  a  strong 
foundation for a comprehensive global response. 

representative of Montenegro. 
Mr.  Šćepanović  (Montenegro):  It  is  my  great 

honour to address the Assembly today on behalf of the 
Government of Montenegro.  

The  problem  of  non-communicable  diseases  has 
been  raised  to  the  level  it  deserves  within  the  general 
debate, not just as a problem but as the major cause of 
for  citizens  of  our  States.  Malignancies, 
death 
cardiovascular  disease,  diabetes  and 
respiratory 
diseases  cause  the  death  of  far  more  than  half  of  our 
citizens.  Such  a  problem  deserves  a 
response, 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
22 

11-50546 
the 
of 
and 
control 
prevention 


preventive measures and specific help and treatment at 
the national as well as the global level. 

The Government of Montenegro has set a goal, in 
the  report  it  submitted  last  year  on  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  of  reducing  its  death  rate  from 
chronic  non-communicable  diseases  by  2015.  Our 
activities are based on three main strategies: a strategy 
for 
chronic 
non-communicable  diseases,  a  national  strategy  for 
tobacco  control,  and  an  action  plan  for  food  and 
nutrition. 

Bearing  in  mind  that  smoking  is  one  of  the 
leading  causes  of  chronic  respiratory  disease,  the 
Government  of  Montenegro  has  amended  its  law  on 
limiting  the  use  of  tobacco  products  this  year,  which 
completely  prohibited  the  use  of  tobacco  in  public 
places,  restricted  advertising  and 
imposed  severe 
penalties for non-compliance with the law. We believe 
that  we  are  obliged,  not  only  at  the  national  level  but 
through global action, in the short and medium term, to 
substantially  reduce  the  number  of  users  of  those 
products, and in the long term to reduce that number to 
a minimum, in order to provide a longer and healthier 
life  for  generations  to  come.  In  addition  to  preventive 
action to reduce the number of smokers, it is important 
to  promote  healthy  nutrition  and  increased  physical 
activity  and  to  work  to  reduce  the  excessive  use  of 
alcohol while monitoring the success of our strategy.  

We all agree that the cost of intervention is lower 
than the cost of inaction, just as the cost of prevention 
is  lower  than  the  cost  of  treatment. The  major  part  of 
our 
therefore  be  focused  on 
efficient  prevention  at  all 
the 
multilateral  level,  in  order  to  encourage  all  relevant 
stakeholders, particularly the media, to promote values 
that  diminish 
these  diseases 
developing. 

In  that  context,  close  cooperation  with  food 
producers is of vital importance in order to reduce the 
harmful  ingredients  that  are  often  the  basis  for  the 
development  of  this  type  of  disease. That  cooperation 
should  be  undertaken  in  the  widest  context  possible, 
including  non-governmental  organizations,  governmental 
structures and international organizations. 

The  fight  against  non-communicable  diseases  is 
also  closely  linked  to  other  Millennium  Development 
Goals, especially the fight against poverty, because the 
death  rate  is  closely  connected  to  lifestyle  and  food 
intervention  should 
levels,  especially 
likelihood  of 
the 
A/66/PV.8
the 
that 
I  believe 
implementation  of 
importance  of  accomplishing 
the  World  Health  Organization 
consumption. I therefore wish to use this opportunity to 
reiterate 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  despite  the  global 
financial crisis that struck all our economies. 

this  High-level  Meeting  will 
appropriately  define  a  set  of  preventive  and  control 
measures  that  will  stimulate  our  national  efforts  and 
create conditions for us to achieve global results in the 
coming  years.  I  believe  it  is  especially  important  to 
design,  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations 
system,  and 
in 
particular, adequate measures of support for States with 
fewer  opportunities  and  limited  capacities  for  the 
efficient 
internationally  agreed 
measures.  In  particular,  ways  should  be  found  to 
provide  help  in  the  implementation  of  preventive 
measures and to ensure the availability of high-quality 
medicines, thereby decreasing the risk of the outbreak 
and  spread  of  non-communicable  diseases.  Statistical 
control of the success of those measures should also be 
carried out. 

Finally,  I  wish  to  thank  all  participants  here 
today.  I  hope  that  this  High-level  Meeting,  including 
conclusions  from  the  topics  discussed  at  the  round 
tables, will result in an unequivocal and action-oriented 
plan to further the fight against this global problem. 

representative of Myanmar. 
Mr. Kyaw Tin (Myanmar): Allow me, first of all, 

to express our sincere thanks to the General Assembly 
and 
the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO)  for 
organizing  this  important  High-level  Meeting  focused 
on  the  prevention  and  control  of  non-communicable 
diseases (NCDs). 

As  a  member  of  the  Association  of  Southeast 
Asian  Nations  (ASEAN),  Myanmar  aligns  itself  with 
the statement made by His Excellency Mr. R. M. Marty 
M.  Natalegawa,  Minister  for  Foreign  affairs  of  the 
Republic of Indonesia, on behalf of ASEAN. 

As  much  has  been  said  about  the  magnitude  of 
the  threat  of  NCDs  by  many  preceding  speakers,  I 
hardly need to stress the urgency and importance of our 
efforts  to  curb  NCDs  worldwide.  The  global  burden 
and  threat  of  NCDs  have  indeed  become  one  of  the 
major  challenges  undermining  social  and  economic 
development  and  the  health  of  millions  of  people 
throughout the world. 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
11-50546 

23 

A/66/PV.8 


It  is  alarming  to  note  that  NCDs  are  a  major 
cause  of  over  60  per  cent  of  global  deaths,  of  which 
80 per  cent  occur  in  developing  countries.  Their 
economic  burden  will  have  an  even  greater  impact  on 
the  global  economy  in  the  next  two  decades.  The 
burden  and  untimely  loss  of  human  life  caused  by 
NCDs  are  putting  a  heavy  strain  on  development 
endeavours,  posing  obstacles  even  to  achieving  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  challenge  of 
NCDs  has  thus  become  not  only  an  important  health 
problem but also a development issue that deserves the 
urgent attention of policymakers. 

An  effective  response  to  the  global  problem  of 
NCDs  will  require  collective  global  action,  with  the 
active  and  informed  participation  of  all  stakeholders. 
We  hope  that  this  High-level  Meeting  will  provide  an 
opportunity  to  adopt  a  global  strategy  and  measures, 
including  the  strengthening  of  national  capacities  to 
affectively address the prevention and control of NCDs 
in developing countries. 

My  own  country,  Myanmar,  is  included  among 
the  23  high-burden  developing  countries  that  account 
for  around  80  per  cent  of  the  total  burden  of  chronic 
disease mortality. Fully aware of their impact on health 
and  development,  Myanmar  has  attached  high  priority 
to NCDs in its health and development plans. It is also 
cooperating  with  ASEAN  in  addressing  this  grave 
challenge. 

At the national level, Myanmar has been carrying 
out NCD prevention and control activities, in line with 
the  WHO  2000  Global  Strategy  for  Surveillance, 
Prevention  and  Control  of  NCDs  and  its  2008-2013 
Action Plan for the Global Strategy for the Prevention 
and Control of Non-communicable Diseases. Our NCD 
control  activities  are  implemented  as  vertical  projects 
under  our  hospital  care  programmes  in  the  national 
health  plan  for  the  period  2006-2011.  To  address  the 
NCD  burden  more  effectively,  NCDs  are  defined  as 
one  of  the  main  strategic  areas  in  the  national  health 
plan, which covers various areas, including four major 
NCDs. 

The  control  of  smoking  and  consumption  of 
tobacco  products  law  was  enacted  on  4  May  2006. 
Early 
2010  Global 
Recommendations  on  Physical  Activities  for  Health 
were  adopted  and  adapted  in  Myanmar.  We  have  also 
developed an action plan on physical activity for health 
as part of our measures for the prevention of NCDs. 
the  WHO 
year, 
this 
Myanmar  welcomes 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 

A  high-level  national  multisectoral  mechanism 
will be established in the very near future to coordinate 
with all stakeholders, including sectors outside health. 
Moreover,  Myanmar  is  in  the  process  of  enacting  a 
national policy on the prevention and control of NCDs. 
Such national efforts of developing countries should be 
supported  by  the  international  community  through  the 
provision of financial and technical assistance. 
the  outcome  document 

adopted  by 
this  High-level  Meeting  yesterday 
(resolution  66/2,  annex),  which  will  set  a  new  global 
agenda  and  generate  political  will  to  address  the 
important issue of NCDs.  

In  conclusion,  my  delegation  wishes  to  reiterate 
its  commitment  to  participating  actively  in  global  and 
regional networks to enhance efforts for the prevention 
and control of NCDs. 

representative of Cambodia. 
Mr. Sea (Cambodia): My country wishes to align 

itself with the statement made at the 4th meeting by the 
representative  of 
the 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  and  with  the 
statement made at the 7th meeting by the representative of 
Argentina on behalf of the Group of 77 and China. 

Cambodia  is  challenged  by  the  epidemic  of 
non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs).  While 
is 
recognized that poverty, the globalization of trade and 
marketing,  urbanization  and  other  social  determinants 
are  among  the  principal  contributing  factors  to  the 
spread of NCDs, the burden of these diseases is a grave 
concern  in  Cambodia.  The  main  risk  factors  are 
tobacco  use,  unhealthy  diet,  lack  of  physical  activity 
and harmful use of alcohol, which lead to heart disease, 
cancer, diabetes and other chronic diseases. 

In  urban  areas  of  Cambodia  6  per  cent  of  adults 
have  diabetes  and  17  per  cent  have  high  blood 
pressure, while in rural areas 2 per cent of adults have 
diabetes and 10 per cent were found to be hypertensive. 
Eight in every 10 people in Cambodia have one or two 
risk  factors  for  developing  NCDs,  and  one  in  every 
10 has three or more. NCDs accounted for 46 per cent 
of all deaths in 2008 — approximately 957 males and 
592 females per 100,000 persons. 

These diseases are largely preventable. Therefore, 
Cambodia has made its best efforts in responding to the 
Indonesia  on  behalf  of 
it 
24 

11-50546 
health 
objectives 
Thirdly,  we  are 
Fifthly,  we  are  integrating  NCD-related  services 
through  health 


challenge  of  NCDs.  My  country  commits  to  act  in 
several ways. 

First,  we  are  developing  and  strengthening 
multisectoral  public  policies  to  maximize  the  positive 
impacts  on  NCD  risk  factors  and  burdens  that  result 
from  policies  of  other  sectors  and  to  minimize  their 
negative impacts. 

Secondly, we are giving priority to the prevention 
and control of NCDs, ensuring complementarities with 
other 
and  mainstreaming 
multisectoral  policies to strengthen the  engagement of 
other sectors.  

implementing  cost-effective 
policies  such  as  fiscal  policies,  regulations  and  other 
measures to reduce common risk factors. 

Fourthly,  Cambodia  is  implementing  effective 
national and global policies for prevention and control, 
including policies relevant to achieving the goals of the 
2008-2013 Action Plan for the Global Strategy for the 
Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases.  

into  primary  health-care  services 
systems. 

to 
comprehensive and cost-effective prevention, treatment 
and  care 
integrated  management  of  NCDs, 
including access to affordable, safe, effective and high-
quality medicines.  

translating  and 
disseminating research to identify the causes of NCDs 
and  effective  strategies  for 
their  prevention  and 
control. 
Cambodia fully supports the important role of the 

international  community  and  international  cooperation 
in  assisting  Cambodia  and  other  developing  countries 
in complementing their efforts to generate a successful 
response to NCDs. 
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

resolution 477 (V) of 1 November 1950, I now call on 
the observer of the League of Arab States. 
Ms.  Bahous  (League  of  Arab  States)  (spoke  in 

Arabic):  Allow  me  to  thank  the  United  Nations  on 
behalf of Mr. Nabil El Araby, the Secretary-General of 
the  League  of Arab  States,  for  all  the  efforts  made  in 
various spheres of development. He wishes all success 
Lastly,  we  are  promoting, 
Sixthly,  we 
are 
promoting 
access 
for 
A/66/PV.8
thank 
I  also 
in implementing the goals  of the meeting, which is of 
interest to the populations of the Arab world and of the 
entire  world. 
the  World  Health 
Organization  for  all  its  efforts  and  its  guiding  role  in 
organizing  this  important  meeting,  especially  in  this 
period  that  the  Arab  region  is  going  through,  which 
requires  that  the  Arab  world  and  the  international 
community  pull  together  to  realize  the  aspirations  of 
the  Arab  population  for  a  better  world,  including  the 
right  to  health  care,  to  a  decent  life,  to  prevention  of 
non-communicable diseases (NCDs) and, of course, to 
improved medical services. 

I  wish  to  take  this  great  opportunity  to  reaffirm 
that the League of Arab States, through its own health-
care  mechanisms  —  with  the  Ministers  of  the  Arab 
Health  Council  at  the  head  —  attributes  particular 
importance to our meeting and to its outcome. 

The  challenge  of  health  care  facing  the  Arab 
region in the sphere of NCDs and their risks, as well as 
the  illnesses  that  continue  to  spread,  is  the  greatest 
burden for Arab medical systems. They are the biggest 
obstacles  to  development.  Cardiovascular  and  arterial 
illnesses  are  the  primary  cause  of  death,  along  with 
diabetes, cancer and hypertension at levels that pose a 
dual  threat  to  individuals  and  to  young,  developing 
societies. 

Research  shows  that  the  level  of  NCDs  in  our 
region  is  steadily  rising,  particularly  among  those 
between 15 and 59 years of age. These illnesses  are a 
dual  development  challenge 
in 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals 
(MDGs), above all for the lowest-income States. They 
are spreading in societies that are still in the first stages 
of economic development and are suffering from a lack 
of  resources  for  taking  effective  measures  to  combat 
them and their impact on young people — who are the 
most  numerous  in  the  Arab  world.  All  these  factors 
impact  negatively  on  productive  output  and  on 
socio-economic life.  

In  implementation  of  the  resolutions  of  the 
League  of Arab  States  at  the  summit  of  2010  in  Sirte 
and  the  meetings  in  Kuwait  in  2009  and  in  Sharm 
el-Sheik  in  2011,  the  Arab  plan  of  action  has  been 
developed  to  improve  basic  medical  services  and 
family medicine in the Arab States for the years 2011-
2016.  The  primary  strategic  goal  of  the  plan  is  to 
combat  NCDs  through  both  integrating  NCD  services 
in national medical services and improving the quality 
for  our  States 
11-50546 

25 

the  Gulf  States 
A/66/PV.8 

of  care  given  to  patients.  I  also  speak  of  quick 
diagnosis and testing to reduce the economic and social 
burden for society in general.  

All  this  is  based  on  the  principle  of  primary 
medical  services  and  achievement  of  the  MDGs.  The 
Arab  States  have  given  priority  to  the  subject.  The 
Arab Group before the World Health Assembly in May 
this  year  called  for  the  inclusion  of  NCDs  in  the 
MDGs. Also, in February this year the Health Ministers 
of the States of the Gulf Cooperation Council adopted 
the general framework for the national executive plans 
of 
for  combating  NCDs  by 
implementing plans focusing on prevention, promotion 
of health care and supporting the special commissions 
on combating diabetes, cardiovascular disease, cancer, 
tobacco use and medical outreach and awareness. 

An  international  Arab  conference  on  NCDs  will 
be  held  in  2012  in  Saudi Arabia,  in  cooperation  with 
the  League  of  Arab  States  and  the  Council  of  Arab 
Health  Care  Ministers.  Another  Arab  conference  on 
maternal  health  will  take  place  in  Beirut  in  2012,  in 
cooperation  with the United Nations Population Fund, 
as  part  of  the  ongoing  Arab  promotion  of  serious 
development  partnerships  to  combat  the  dangers  of 
NCDs,  which 
threaten  progress  and 
development in the Arab world.  

We  are  also  interested  in  reducing  NCD  risk 
factors to which individuals and societies are exposed, 
such  as  smoking,  unhealthy  diets,  lack  of  physical 
exercise,  alcohol  consumption  and  environmental 
pollution.  We  focus  on  promoting  prevention  and 
medical  outreach  programmes 
these 
dangerous diseases.  

Overall,  the  Arab  region  has  made  progress  in 
improving medical services, but it is difficult for low-
income,  less  developed  Arab  States  to  make  tangible 
progress  in  this  sphere,  particularly  in  light  of  the 
challenges  that  the  Arab  States  and  the  entire  Arab 
region  are  facing.  Therefore,  the  current  and  future 
stages will require consideration of the socio-economic 
impact  of  NCDs.  It  is  important  to  benefit  from 
positive experiences and data that can help developing 
States, especially the least developed, in their efforts to 
prevent and control these diseases.  

Scientific  research  is  of  particular  importance. 
Governments  must  increase  their  funding  of  scientific 
research  on  NCDs  to  provide  accurate  data  and 
and 
information 
that  would  promote  national 
increasingly 
to  combat 
to  develop  monitoring  and 
socio-economic  development, 
international initiatives to control them, including Arab 
national health plans of action, with an eye to fostering 
sustainable development. 

Finally, I would like to thank the United Nations 
and  the  World  Health  Organization,  including  its 
Regional  Office  for  the  Eastern  Mediterranean,  for 
their  earnest  cooperation  and  regular  support 
to 
initiatives of the League of Arab States and the Council 
of Arab Health Care Ministers in all spheres of health 
care.  It  is  vital  to  integrate  strategies  to  fight  NCDs 
into  national  health  and  development  plans  and 
strategies.  We  must  find  a  mechanism  for  appropriate 
funding  and  encourage  Governments  to  lend  their 
support and national resources to combat these diseases 
and 
implementation 
mechanisms. We should promote partnerships between 
Arab  Governments  and  the  private  sector,  including 
civil  society,  to  fulfil  our  social  responsibility.  It  is 
important  to  support  individual  countries  in  launching 
their  own  programmes  and  initiatives  against  these 
diseases  and  to  foster  partnerships  among  States  to 
promote 
improved 
public health and the right of all peoples of the region 
to universal health care, development and a decent life. 
The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

resolution  57/32  of  19  November  2002,  I  now  call  on 
the observer of the Inter-Parliamentary Union. 
Ms. Filip (Inter-Parliamentary Union): I am most 

honoured  to  deliver  this  statement  today  on  behalf  of 
the  National 
Mr.  Theo-Ben  Gurirab,  Speaker  of 
Assembly  of  Namibia 
the 
Inter-Parliamentary Union. 

Today’s  High-level  Meeting  on  the  Prevention 
and  Control  of  Non-communicable  Diseases  takes 
place  at  a  critical  time,  as  policymakers  and  health 
practitioners 
the 
unprecedented  impact  of  non-communicable  diseases 
on citizens and societies. 
For the Inter-Parliamentary Union, the spread and 

impact  of  non-communicable  diseases  are  not  just 
health issues; they are also political questions that have 
to  do  with  lifestyles.  Parliamentarians  therefore  have 
an  important  role  to  play  in  advocating  for  change  in 
lifestyle  and  behaviour,  helping  citizens  make  healthy 
choices,  standing  up  against  the  commercial  interests 
of  powerful  corporations,  allocating  resources,  and 
legislating  and  promoting  constructive  policies, 
and  President  of 
to  grips  with 
try 
to  come 
26 

11-50546 
and 
crisis, 
implementing 
parliamentarians 


including  increased  taxation,  reduced  marketing  and 
public awareness initiatives. 

The  most  important  message  that  should  be 
shared  with  legislators  around  the  world  is  that  lives 
can be saved with effective regulations. We have heard 
throughout this meeting, for example, that tobacco use 
continues to be the leading preventable cause of death. 
In  order  to  help  overcome  the  non-communicable 
disease 
should  make 
controlling  tobacco  use  an  urgent  policy  priority. 
Signing 
the  World  Health 
Organization  Framework  Convention  on  Tobacco 
Control is a first step in this direction. We hereby call 
on  all  parliaments  to  take  action  and  translate  that 
international  instrument  into  sound  legislative  and 
regulatory frameworks at the national level. 

We have no doubt that implementing change will 
be  a  challenging  task.  People  in  many  parts  of  the 
world  face  major  barriers  to  making  healthy  choices, 
and  are  instead  confronted  with  social  and  other 
pressures  that  lead  to  unhealthy  lifestyles.  But  a 
number  of  parliaments  are  taking  action;  the  French 
Parliament has recently announced a policy to increase 
taxes on alcohol, tobacco and sugary drinks in order to 
boost its internal revenue and improve the health of the 
nation.  Other  parliaments  are  also  undertaking  similar 
initiatives. 

We  at  the  Inter-Parliamentary  Union  will  be 
encouraging all of our member parliaments to join the 
global  effort  to  combat  non-communicable  diseases. 
We  will  start  by  informing  parliaments  and  raising 
awareness  around  the  outcome  of  this  week’s  High-
level  Meeting.  We  will  further  remain  committed  to 
engaging  with  legislators  and  sharing  good  practices 
with  a  view  to  building  political  momentum  and 
helping parliaments create enabling legal environments 
for  the  prevention  and  control  of  non-communicable 
diseases.  We  look  forward  to  working  closely  with 
everyone here throughout that process. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

Mr.  Stefan  Seebacher,  Head  of  the  Health  Department 
of  the  International  Federation  of  Red  Cross  and  Red 
Crescent Societies.  
Mr.  Seebacher  (International  Federation  of  Red 

Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies):  The  International 
Federation  of  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies 
(IFRC)  appreciates  the  opportunity  to  address  this 
A/66/PV.8
in  bringing  about  changes 
High-Level  Meeting  on  the  Prevention  and  Control  of 
Non-communicable Diseases (NCDs).  

No  one  can  doubt  that  today  NCDs  are  the 
leading  threat  to  health  and  development.  Yet  these 
diseases could be prevented by eliminating shared risk 
factors.  The  impact  of  non-communicable  diseases 
affects  every  country,  but  it  is  larger  in  middle-  and 
low-income  countries,  where  premature  deaths  caused 
by NCDs carry a huge economic and social burden.  

While  effective  treatment  of  NCDs  is  essential, 
national  policies  on  early  action  and  prevention  are 
critical.  Preventing  the  onset  of  chronic  illness  will 
ultimately save Governments valuable time and money 
and  relieve  the  burden  on  often  overstretched  health-
care  resources.  The  development  of  better  and  more 
accessible  screening  programmes,  combined  with 
wider public awareness, could also dramatically reduce 
the number of NCD-related deaths.  
Humanitarian  organizations  such  as  the  Red 

Cross  and  Red  Crescent  societies,  whose  staff  and 
volunteers  work  closely  with  local  communities,  play 
an  enormous  role 
in 
behaviour  and  attitudes  towards  health  and  lifestyle. 
We  at  the  IFRC  strongly  believe  that  including  NCDs 
in  our  health  programmes  is  consistent  with  our 
Federation’s  Strategy  2020  to  enable  healthy  and  safe 
living.  We  have  developed  a  framework  for  NCD 
prevention  and  control.  The  framework  focuses  on 
prevention, 
research,  monitoring, 
evaluation, partnership and advocacy.  
Prevention  has  to  start  at  the  community  level, 

with people being better informed and better equipped 
to take care of their own health. That is precisely where 
our national Red Cross and Red Crescent societies can 
play a critical role in contributing to the global effort. 
In  their  auxiliary  roles  to  Governments,  national  Red 
Cross  and  Red  Crescent  societies  can  work  hand  in 
hand  with  national  authorities  and  other  health  actors 
to  provide  quality  programmes  and  services.  Such  a 
contribution, 
largely  based  on  prevention,  would 
improve  the  inequitable  conditions  of  daily  living 
through  resilience-based  and  community-based  health 
programming, 
the  World  Health 
Organization  2008-2013  Action  Plan  for  the  Global 
and  Control  of 
Strategy 
Non-communicable  Diseases,  with  a  strong  emphasis 
on prevention. 
the  Prevention 
innovation, 
line  with 
in 
for 
11-50546 

27 

A/66/PV.8 

The President returned to the Chair. 


The  potential  of  volunteers  remains  vital  to 
implementing any NCD plan at the country level, with 
a  community-based  health  approach  with  a  specific 
focus on a holistic approach rather than vertical disease 
intervention. The Red Cross and Red Crescent National  
health 
promotion. 
In 
and 
Societies  have  a  long-standing  history  of  disease 
prevention 
their 
complementary  role  to  Governments,  they  are  in  a 
unique  position  to  be  pioneers  in  implementing  NCD 
prevention  programmes,  using  a  holistic  health 
approach. 

  The meeting rose at 6 p.m. 
28 

11-50546 
