
A/66/PV.6
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

6th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 20 September 2011, 9.30 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 





  The meeting was called to order at 9.35 a.m. 
High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on  
the theme “Addressing desertification, land 
degradation and drought in the context of 
sustainable development and poverty eradication” 
Agenda item 19 
Sustainable development 
  (e)  Implementation of the United Nations 




Convention to Combat Desertification in Those 
Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or 
Desertification, Particularly in Africa 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now  declare 

open the High-level Meeting of the General Assembly 
on  addressing  desertification,  land  degradation  and 
drought in the context of sustainable development and 
poverty eradication, held in accordance with resolution 
65/160,  of  20  December  2010.  I  extend  a  warm 
welcome to all participants.  


Statement by the President 
The President (spoke in Arabic): It is my distinct 

honour  to  welcome  all  participants  to  this  historic 
High-level Meeting on addressing desertification, land 
degradation  and  drought  in  the  context  of  sustainable 
development and poverty eradication. 

to 
acknowledge  the  leadership  role  of  the  Secretary-
General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  and  of  the  Executive 
Secretary of the United Nations Convention to Combat 

this  opportunity 
I  would 
take 
like 
to 
is 
the 
land 
in  bringing 
tireless  efforts 
Desertification,  Mr.  Luc  Gnacadja,  on  this  important 
issue.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  Member  States  for 
their 
issue  of 
desertification to the agenda of the General Assembly. 
The  role  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  deserves 
particular appreciation in this respect.  

Desertification  is  one  of  the  most  complex 
challenges  of  our  time.  It  has  serious  environmental, 
economic,  political  and  social  impacts  that  affect 
people, most of whom are poor. According to estimates 
by the United Nations Environmental Programme, one 
quarter  of  our  Earth’s 
threatened  by 
desertification  and  the  livelihoods  of  over  1  billion 
people  in  more  than  100  countries  are  jeopardized  by 
desertification. 

critically 
undermine gains achieved in sustainable development. 
The economic, social and human cost of desertification 
is  tremendous.  I  therefore  call  upon  the  international 
community  to  take  immediate  and  decisive  action  to 
address  its  impacts  and  to  take  measures  for  both  its 
prevention and its reversal. 

A  silent  killer,  drought  has  hit  East  Africa  this 
year, and once again the world has seen unimaginable 
human  suffering.  Countries 
region  are 
experiencing the worst drought in 60 years. In the past 
three  months  alone,  this  famine  has  claimed  the  lives 
of tens of thousands of Somali children under the  age 
of  five,  and  it  has  caused  possibly  permanent  social 
disruption  as  people  have  been  forced  to  leave  their 
communities,  villages  and  towns.  This  is  the  most 
Desertification 
threatens 
also 
this 
to 
in 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-50534 (E) 
*1150534* 




A/66/PV.6 

severe  food  crisis  in  the  world  today,  and  it  still 
requires urgent and concerted action at the global level. 

Global  attention  to  addressing  land  degradation 
and the scarcity of natural resource has no doubt been 
on  the  increase,  particularly  in  connection  with  the 
challenges  of  climate  change  and  the  food  crisis. 
However,  our  common  efforts  thus  far  have  fallen 
short. 

Major  innovative  policy  interventions  and  shifts 
in  sustainable  land  management  strategies  will  be 
needed  to  address  the  impacts  of  desertification.  Such 
interventions  require  moving  towards  an  ambitious 
quantitative target and a zero net land degradation rate. 
Effective  restoration  and  rehabilitation  of  degraded 
lands  and  drylands  requires  the  development  of  new 
policies and technologies that promote sustainable use 
of resources, as well as predictable financial resources 
to  support  domestic  initiatives.  These  strategies  must 
ensure  the  active  engagement  of  all  stakeholders  and 
local communities. 

A  number  of  important  global  conferences  on 
sustainable  development  will  be  held  this  year.  In 
October,  the  international  community  will  meet  in  the 
Republic  of  Korea  at 
the 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
to  Combat  Desertification.  Today’s 
Convention 
discussion  among  world 
is  an  excellent 
opportunity to help stimulate efforts aimed at reaching 
a decisive outcome at the Conference.  

The  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  Earth  Summit, 
which was held in June 1992 in Rio de Janeiro, is also 
around  the  corner.  I  urge  Member  States  to  ensure  a 
forward-looking  outcome  at  the  Rio+20  Conference 
that reaffirms the balance between the economic, social 
and environmental aspects of sustainable development. 
I would also  encourage Members States to reaffirm in 
their deliberations the fulfilment of commitments to the 
United  Nations  Convention  to  Combat  Desertification 
and  its  10-year  strategic  plan  and  framework,  and  to 
further enhance the implementation of the Convention. 

Effectively  addressing  desertification  and  land 
degradation  can  be  done  only  in  the  context  of  other 
major  global  challenges,  such  as  climate  change, 
poverty  eradication,  food  security,  deforestation  and 
biodiversity  loss.  I  would  like  to  address  one  of  these 
issues in particular today: food security.  
tenth  session  of 
the 
leaders 
their  own 

Food security is an urgent  issue before  us today. 
Food  insecurity  has  an  impact  on  a  daily  basis  on 
people  in  arid  countries  in  particular.  Many  of  them 
face  severe  malnutrition  and  undernourishment,  and 
their  health  is  compromised  as  a  result.  Malnutrition 
has  a  particularly  lasting  impact  on  children,  as  their 
development and growth are stunted.  
Arid  countries  have  begun  to  understand  the 

importance  of  building 
country-led 
initiatives  that  aim  to  address  the  root  causes  of  food 
insecurity. They  are  also  collaborating  to  form  South-
South, triangular and global alliances that would allow 
them  to  share  technological  and  policy  solutions  to 
combat  desertification  and  the  degradation  of  lands  in 
all ecosystems. 

I  am  pleased  to  observe  a  small  but  growing 
number  of  such  initiatives  aimed  at  addressing  food 
insecurity  in  Africa,  Asia  and  South  America.  These 
initiatives  include  a  proposal  made  by  the  State  of 
Qatar in September 2010, during the sixty-fifth session 
of  the  General  Assembly,  at  the  special  side  event 
entitled  “Global  Dry  Land  Alliance:  Partnering  for 
Food Security”. The proposal is for a group of dryland 
countries  to  join  together  to  form  a  global  dryland 
alliance.  The  innovative  solutions  and  best  practices 
developed by such an alliance could be shared broadly 
with dryland countries throughout the world.  

Another  example  is  the  African  Union’s  Great 
Green  Wall  Initiative,  which  aims  to  tackle  both 
environmental  and  poverty-related  challenges  and  to 
address  the  effects  of  land  degradation,  increasing 
aridity and desertification in the African Sahara and the 
Sahel  drylands  by  planting  a  wall  of  trees  across 
Africa, from Senegal in the west to Djibouti in the east.  

Initiatives  such  as  these  are  designed  to  support 
and  complement  efforts  towards  tangible  progress  in 
achieving 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs),  particularly  MDG  1,  which  is  to  eradicate 
extreme poverty and hunger. 

Land  is  life,  and  our  life  depends  on  land.  We 
must stop the deadly process of desertification, restore 
health and vitality to our precious Earth and protect the 
livelihoods  of  people  worldwide.  This 
is  our 
responsibility.  

Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon. 
I  now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  the 
2 

11-50534 


The  Secretary-General:  Today,  the  drylands  of 

the  Horn  of  Africa  are  experiencing  the  most  severe 
food crisis in the world. More than 13 million people in 
Djibouti,  Ethiopia,  Kenya  and  Somalia  are  in  urgent 
need of humanitarian aid. The United Nations and our 
partners  are  working  hard  to  save  lives  and  alleviate 
suffering. 

But  let  me  be  frank.  Drought  does  not  have  to 
become famine. Too often, the international community 
reacts too late. Too often, decisions are taken based on 
false economies. In the end, we count the cost not just 
in human lives but in the extra expense of responding 
to crises that could have been averted for a fraction of 
the price. 

The world’s drylands are too often an investment 
desert,  seen  by  Governments  and  the  international 
community  as  a  lost  cause.  Nothing  could  be  further 
from  the  truth.  I  thank  the  General  Assembly  for 
holding  this  High-level  Meeting  to  highlight  the  fact 
that drylands hold the potential — both immediate and 
long-term  —  to  drive  national  economic  growth  and 
sustainable human development. 
Forty  per  cent  of  the  Earth’s  land  mass  is 

characterized  as  arid  or  semi-arid.  Two  billion  people 
depend  on  drylands  for  sustenance  and  income.  Many 
are among the world’s poorest  and most vulnerable to 
hunger.  Drylands  also  offer  considerable  potential  for 
helping  to  mitigate  the  effects  of  climate  change. 
Dryland  carbon  storage  —  mainly  in  the  form  of  soil 
carbon  —  accounts  for  more  than  one  third  of  the 
global stock.  

So  the  incentive  for  the  sustainable  management 
of drylands is clear. Why, then, are  we  allowing these 
valuable  lands,  which  support  so  many  people,  to 
deteriorate  as a result of unsustainable land and water 
use and the impacts of climate change?  
Let us resolve today to reverse this trend. Let us 

recognize 
that  resisting  desertification,  preserving 
drylands and nurturing the communities that depend on 
them lies at the core of sustainable development. 

Contrary to common perception, not all drylands 
are  barren  or  unproductive.  Some  of  the  world’s 
primary  cereal-producing  regions  are  in  semi-arid 
areas.  Communities  and  businesses  everywhere  are 
discovering  the  potential  of  drylands.  Tibetan  herders 
are selling yak wool for cashmere in worldwide luxury 
markets.  Unique  pelts  are  providing 
income  for 
A/66/PV.6
communities 
reversing 
desertification 
But  we  must  also  acknowledge 
communities  in  the  arid  regions  of  Namibia,  where 
conventional farming is impossible.  

In other areas, biofuels grow where little else can. 
The  potential  of  dryland  solar  and  wind  resources  has 
barely  been  tapped.  Timely  action  on  our  part  can 
unlock these riches and provide solutions to a number 
of  global  challenges,  from  food  insecurity  to  rural 
poverty,  energy  insecurity,  biodiversity  loss,  climate 
change,  political  instability,  geopolitical  conflict  and 
forced migration. 
But  to  do  this,  we  need  enhanced  investment  in 

halting  desertification  and  reclaiming  degraded  lands. 
Success  stories  can  point  the  way,  and  success  stories 
abound. From restoring ancient terraces in the Peruvian 
Andes,  to  planting  trees  to  hold  back  the  encroaching 
Saharan sands, from rehabilitating watersheds in India 
to  using  summer  floods  to  reduce  salinity  in  China, 
there are examples from all continents of Governments 
and 
and 
improving the productivity of the land. 

land 
degradation  is  not  just  a  dryland  issue.  Studies  show 
that  land  degradation  is  occurring  in  humid,  tropical 
areas  at  a  faster  rate 
this 
phenomenon is not reversed in time, it could roll back 
the 
our  efforts 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
achieve 
sustainable development. 

As  the  climate  warms,  drought  will  emerge  in 
new  areas  and  become  more  frequent  and  intense. 
Drought  and  land  degradation  must  therefore  move  to 
the  centre  of  policy  development.  By  refocusing  our 
development  agenda 
the  potential  of 
drylands,  we  can  break  the  links  between  poverty  and 
desertification, drought and land degradation. 

The  outcome  of  today’s  deliberations  will  feed 
into the tenth session of the Conference of the Parties 
to 
to  Combat 
Desertification  (UNCCD)  and  the  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20). We 
are  still  at  the  early  stages  of  the  United  Nations 
Decade 
against 
Desertification  and  the  10-year  strategic  plan  of  the 
UNCCD. 

Let  us  resolve  today  to  work  towards  a  world 
where there is no more land degradation. Let us make 
sustainable 
the  green 
the  United  Nations  Convention 
to  eradicate  poverty,  achieve 
land  use  a  cornerstone  of 
than  ever  before.  If 
for  Deserts 
and 
the  Fight 
that 
and 
to 
include 
11-50534 

3 
I  count  on 
their 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  thank  the 
I  wish  members  and  participants  a  productive 
leadership  and 
A/66/PV.6 

economy  for  poverty  eradication  and  sustainable 
development. 

meeting,  and 
commitment. 

Secretary-General for his statement. 

I  have  been  informed  that  the  United  States  will 
speak  in  the  opening  segment  in  its  capacity  as  host 
country.  If  I  hear  no  objection,  we  shall  proceed 
accordingly. 
It was so decided. 

The President (spoke in Arabic): I now give the 

floor to Mr. Luc Gnacadja, Executive Secretary of the 
United Nations Convention to Combat Desertification. 
Mr.  Gnacadja  (United  Nations  Convention  to 

Combat  Desertification):  In  1992,  the  Earth  Summit 
took  the  bold  decision  to  address  the  issue  of  land 
degradation  and  drought,  particularly  in  the  drylands, 
through  a  legally  binding  treaty,  the  United  Nations 
Convention to Combat Desertification (UNCCD). This 
is  the  first  time  since  its  entry  into  force  in  1996  that 
its core issues have been taken up by such a high-level 
political gathering. 

Let  me  start  by  sharing  the  good  news  from  this 
policy  evolution.  First,  in  the  past  two  decades, 
significant 
improvement  have 
occurred  in  the  drylands.  In  many  cases,  drylands 
populations  have  been  leading  these  innovations  and 
progress. 
Secondly, we have accumulated a large amount of 

scientific  knowledge  about 
land 
degradation, the extent of land degradation in different 
ecosystems,  as  well  as  its  strong  linkages  with  other 
global  issues  such  as  poverty  and  food  insecurity, 
climate change and loss of biodiversity. 
Thirdly, on the policy side, through the UNCCD’s 

10-year  Strategy  2008-2018,  the  194  parties  to  the 
Convention  have  agreed  on  a  more  focused  and 
measurable approach to implementing the Convention. 

I would have liked my intervention today to be all 
about good  news. Unfortunately,  I have to report that, 
despite the crippling effects of land degradation or soil 
nutrients  depletion,  the  world  has  continued  building 
towards  a  soil  peak 
far-worse 
land  recovery  and 

Globally, 
the  search 
consequences  than  the  current  oil  peak.  What  are  the 
threats, and why are they ignored? 

The  threats  and  far-reaching  impacts  of  land 
degradation  are  ignored  largely  because  the  issue  is 
still  a  blind  spot  for  the  international  community, 
despite 
for  sustainability.  Our  most 
significant  non-renewable  georesource  is  fertile  land 
and  soil.  Nevertheless,  each  year  an  estimated 
24 billion tons of fertile soil are lost. Arable land loss 
is estimated at 30 to 35 times the historical rate. In the 
drylands, due to drought and desertification, 12 million 
hectares  of  land  are  transformed  into  new  man-made 
deserts every year. That is an area with the potential to 
produce 20 million tons of grain.  

land  degradation  directly  affects 
1.5 billion people. It entrenches affected populations in 
poverty  and  hunger.  For  instance,  when  poverty  is 
assessed  in  terms  of  infant  mortality  rate,  42  per  cent 
of the very poor of the world live in degraded lands. 

Most  certainly,  land  degradation  is  a  global 
phenomenon,  with  78  per  cent  of  the  degrading  land 
taking place in the non-dry lands. Degrading the buffer 
zone  of  the  drylands  increases  their  vulnerability  to 
degradation. Furthermore, land degradation is stressing 
the world’s food production system and contributing to 
its  vulnerability  to  climatic  shocks.  In  an  increasingly 
interdependent  world,  land-related  crises  will  mutate 
into new global crises. 

As  for  drought,  the  percentage  of  Earth’s  land 
area  stricken  by  serious  drought  more  than  doubled 
from  the  1970s  to  the  early  2000s,  and  the  world  is 
facing  the  possibility  of  widespread  drought  in  the 
coming decades; but this has yet to be fully recognized 
by the international community. Unfortunately, despite 
being  predictable,  drought  in  our  time  still  implies 
famine  and  claims  lives.  The  tragic  situation  in  the 
Horn of Africa is a stark reminder that we still have a 
long way to go. 
Among the main  challenges in implementing the 

Convention,  low  political  recognition  and  the  lack  of 
mainstreaming in national strategic plans are foremost. 
However,  addressing  land  degradation  is  not  a  burden 
on  public  budgets,  but  rather  a  driving  force  for 
sustainable  and 
inclusive  economic  development. 
According  to  a  recent  review,  the  cost  of  land 
degradation  in  sub-Saharan Africa  may  be  as  much  as 
10 per cent of national gross domestic products. 
the  drivers  of 
that  will  have 
4 

11-50534 
address 
towards 
the 
successfully 
desertification, 



My main message is that to sustain life on Earth 
we  must  build  a  land-degradation-neutral  world.  This 
will  involve  a  global  commitment  leading  to  effective 
action  at  all  levels.  Therefore  I  call  for  action.  I  urge 
the leaders of our planet to adopt policy measures that 
will lead to a paradigm shift in the way we manage our 
land  resources.  Through  bold  political  decisions  and 
with the knowledge now available, we have the means 
to 
land 
degradation  and  drought.  This  is  the  raison  d’être  of 
the UNCCD. Through this process, hunger, poverty and 
famine  can  become  history.  We  can  do  this  and  we 
must. I have no doubt that members will take the right 
decisions and lead us accordingly. 
The President (spoke in Arabic): I now give the 

floor  to  the  President  of  the  ninth  session  of  the 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Convention to Combat Desertification, His Excellency 
Mr. Alberto D’Alotto, Vice-Minister of Foreign Affairs 
of Argentina. 
Mr.  D’Alotto  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

The 
topic  before  us 
today  has  enjoyed  focused 
international attention this year, which has resulted in a 
better  understanding  at 
the 
level  of 
importance  of  developing  coordinated  actions 
to 
combat 
this  environmental,  economic  and  social 
problem in the context of sustainable development and 
poverty  eradication.  I  hope  that  this  meeting  will 
increase  the  engagement  of  the  major  actors  on  this 
issue at the highest institutional and political levels of 
this  Organization.  It  will  be  a  particular  challenge  for 
affected  countries  to  define  their  priorities  in  the 
international 
struggle 
community 
increased  participation 
and 
cooperation at the technical and financial levels. 

We  face  the  major  task  of  consolidating  the 
efforts undertaken and progress made by States parties 
to 
to  Combat 
Desertification. In particular, I would like to underline 
the  progress 
the 
Convention  follow-up 
the 
Argentine  Presidency  of  the  ninth  Conference  of  the 
Parties, including the recognition of the Committee for 
the Review of the Implementation of the Convention as 
a  permanent  subsidiary  body,  which  allowed  the 
submission of the first reporting cycle after the 10-year 
strategy  2008-2018.  I  also  highlight  the  establishment 
of  new  methodologies  through  the  implementation  of 
of 
the 
for 
took  place  under 
the  United  Nations  Convention 
in  some  strategic 
to  motivate 
performance 
the  global 
in  order 
review 
and 
assessment 
issues 
that 
A/66/PV.6
On 
the 
the  other  hand, 
to  obtain  scientific  advice  on 
implementation  system  for  periodical  and  reliable 
information  and  data  collection  and  analysis,  and  for 
the  measurement  and  evaluation  of 
trends  of 
desertification at the global, national and local levels. 

institutional  reform 
process  within  the  Global  Environment  Facility  has 
recently  allowed  the  allocation  of  financial  resources 
for the focal area on land degradation, transforming the 
Facility  into  the  main  financial  mechanism  of  the 
Convention,  increasing  and  broadening  the  continuity 
of relevant projects and initiatives. 

On the basis of these important landmarks in our 
Convention’s  process,  which  took  place  under  the 
Argentine  presidency  of  ninth  Conference  of  the 
Parties, and with a view to tenth, it is necessary for the 
international  community  and  States  parties  take  more 
and  better  decisions  to  advance  the  fight  against 
desertification.  To  that  end,  it  is  necessary  to  have  a 
framework 
issues 
relevant  to  the  Conference  of  the  Parties,  and  which 
also  provides  warning  on  possible  crisis  situations. 
However,  that  important  technical  advice  should  be 
respectful of the political processes of the Convention, 
ensuring  that  the  recommendations  are  adopted  by 
States parties at the different decision-making levels. 

in  particular  has  been  deeply 
committed  to  the  objectives  of  the  Convention  since 
their  very  beginning.  This  commitment  is  firmly 
determined  by  the  geographic  particularities  of  my 
country’s territory, 75 per cent of which is made up of 
arid  and  semi-arid  areas.  These  areas,  however, 
produce 50 per cent of the country’s wealth, generating 
important  export  credits  that  strengthen  our  economy, 
terms  of  sustainable 
and  pose  a  challenge 
development.  In 
is  fully 
conscious  of  the  richness  of  these  ecosystems  from  a 
productive  and  cultural  point  of  view,  and  of  the 
generation  of  external  benefits  and  their  vulnerability 
to climate issues and human activities. 

For  example,  the  National Action  Programme  to 
Combat  Desertification  is  promoting  local,  productive 
sustainable  development, 
the  eradication  of  rural 
poverty  and  the  creation  of  technology  to  control  the 
advance  or  reversal  of  desertification.  Efforts  are  also 
being coordinated at the regional and subregional level, 
including the Gran Chaco Americano project and other 
projects within MERCOSUR. 
this  respect,  Argentina 
Argentina 
in 
11-50534 

5 

the  subject  of 
from  achieving 
I will now speak on behalf of the Group of 77 and 
A/66/PV.6 


This  presidency  believes  that  the  Convention  is 
the  best  international  legal  instrument  for  developing 
more  and  better  tools  for  combating  desertification, 
land  degradation  and  drought,  and  that  its  principal 
objective should be to improve the quality of life of the 
in  arid,  semi-arid  and  dry 
affected  populations 
sub-humid  areas,  which  are 
the 
Convention. 

I  hope  that  our  deliberations  in  this  Meeting 
allow  us  to  make  progress  in  strengthening  and 
enhancing the activities that are being carried out with 
a  view  to  improving  the  lives  of  the  billions  who  live 
in  areas  affected  by  desertification  in  developing 
countries, who are among the poorest in the world and 
who  are  kept 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  in  particular  those  related  to 
hunger, poverty and sustainable development. 

China for this segment of the High-level Meeting. 
(spoke in English) 

We  welcome  the  convening  of  this  debate  today, 
and  we  would  like  to  recall  that  desertification  and 
land  degradation  affect  all  regions  of  the  world  and 
continue 
to  sustainable 
development at the national, regional and global levels. 
We would like to emphasize also that these issues have 
repercussions on the functioning of the ecosystem and 
the Earth’s system as a whole. 

We would like to stress that developing countries 
are the most affected by these phenomena. The present 
situation  of  drylands 
countries 
constitutes a matter of utmost concern to the Group of 
77  (G-77)  and  China.  With  more  than  1  billion 
inhabitants  —  who  are  among  the  poorest  on  the 
planet —  we  are 
the 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals, in 
particular 
to  hunger,  poverty  and 
environmental sustainability. 

The  G-77  and  China  express  their  concern  and 
solidarity  over  the  situation  that  the  population  in  the 
Horn of Africa region is experiencing right now. They 
have been hit by the worst drought in 60 years, which 
is leading to starvation and loss of crops and livestock. 
This  reflects  well  the  severity  of  the  drought  and 
desertification problems and the imperative for action. 

For  the  G-77  and  China,  the  objective  of  this 
High-level  Meeting  should  be  to  contribute  to  raising 
the  most  constrained 
to  pose  a  serious 
those  relating 
threat 
in  developing 
in 
for  desertification, 
international  cooperation, 
awareness  of  desertification,  land  degradation  and 
drought  at  the  highest  level,  in  line  with  the  United 
Nations  Decade  for  Deserts  and  the  Fight  against 
Desertification (2010-2020).  

Therefore, it is important to reaffirm the case for 
the  fulfilment  of  all  commitments  to  the  United 
Nations  Convention  to  Combat  Desertification  and  its 
10-year strategic plan and framework, ensuring in this 
way  a  higher  priority 
land 
degradation  and  drought  on  the  international  agenda 
and  contributing  to  the  preparations  for  the  tenth 
session  of  the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United 
Nations Convention to Combat Desertification and for 
the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development, Rio+20. 

In  this  vein,  it  is  worth  remembering  that  that 
Conference was first held in Rio de Janeiro in 1992 to 
respond  to  developing  countries’  concerns  and  needs. 
Its objective was to combat desertification and mitigate 
the effects of drought in countries experiencing serious 
drought  and/or  desertification,  particularly  in  Africa, 
and  to  do  that  through  effective  action  at  all  levels, 
supported  by 
the 
framework of an integrated approach that is consistent 
with  Agenda  21,  with  a  view  to  contributing  to  the 
achievement  of  sustainable  development  in  affected 
areas. Therefore, the focus should continue to be on the 
situation 
in  developing 
countries  in  Africa,  Asia,  and  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean. 

Regarding the report submitted by the Secretariat 
of the Convention to Combat Desertification, the G-77 
and  China  fully  reiterate  their  preliminary  comments 
and  input  to  this  background  document,  as  expressed 
during the informal consultations held on 23 May and 
submitted in writing on 23 and 30 May. 

A  fundamental  point  of  this  debate  is  how  to 
ensure  the  full  implementation  of  the  Convention  and 
the  10-year  strategic  programme.  For  the  G-77  and 
China, this should be achieved in accordance with the 
principles and provisions of the relevant instruments on 
sustainable development, in particular, principles 2 and 
7 of the Rio Declaration: the sovereign right of States 
to  exploit  their  own  resources  pursuant  to  their  own 
environmental 
and 
common but differentiated responsibilities. 
May I here recall that the multilateral framework 

of  the  Convention  requires  international  cooperation 
and  developmental  policies, 
in  drylands,  particularly 
in 
6 

11-50534 
Also, 
plans 
to 
national 
action 
the  Parties, 
to  support 
the 
framework  of 
international  community 
them,  within 


and that the application of the principle of common but 
differentiated  responsibilities  demands  that  developed 
countries  provide  new,  additional,  predictable  and 
stable  financing,  transfer  of  technology  and  capacity-
building  for  the  implementation  of  actions  on  the 
ground. 

combat 
desertification  are  programmes  designed  for  activities 
related to the fight against desertification, as mandated 
by the Convention. 
Therefore, the Group of 77 and China expect the 

summary  of  this  meeting  to  reflect  national  strategies 
or  programmes  and  the  importance  for  developing 
countries  to  receive  technical  and  financial  support 
from 
the 
to  adequately 
implement 
the 
Convention.   We  should  also  stress  the  important 
role that  regional coordination mechanisms must play, 
as  established  by 
the 
implementation of regional annexes of the Convention 
to complement international support. 
The Group is of the view that the Convention to 

the 
Combat  Desertification 
achievements of the other Rio Conventions, namely the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change  and  the  Convention  on  Biodiversity. A  strong 
and  clear  political  message  should  emerge  from  this 
high-level  segment,  reflecting  that  the  Convention  on 
Desertification  must  be  put  on  equal  footing  and 
treated  with  the  same  importance  as  the  Biodiversity 
Convention  and  the  Climate  Change  Convention,  and 
political 
to 
developing countries should be guaranteed. 
It  is  vital  to  enhance  cooperation  among  the  Rio 

individual 
Conventions  while 
mandates,  out  of  concern  over  the  negative  impacts 
that  desertification, 
loss  of 
biodiversity and climate change have on each other and 
recognizing the potential benefits of complementarities 
in addressing these problems in a mutually supportive 
manner. 

The  G-77  and  China  support  the  establishment 
and  strengthening  of  existing  disaster  management 
capacities at all levels, including information and early 
warning  systems  that  allow  effective  management  of 
the  risks  associated  with  drought,  desertification  and 
land degradation and of the adverse impacts of climate 
change. 
land  degradation, 
from  developed 
lagging  behind 
respecting 
their 
is 
support 
countries 
A/66/PV.6
international  economic 

Poverty,  food  security  and  desertification  are 
intrinsically linked to each other and need to be tackled 
jointly. Therefore, desertification, land degradation and 
drought  should  be  addressed  not  only  in  terms  of 
environmental  impacts  and  economic  growth  but  also 
in terms of their social impacts, recognizing the causes 
of  desertification  and  the  need  to  have  a  socially 
inclusive approach, and addressing inequalities. 
Considering  the  impact  of  trade  and  relevant 

aspects  of 
relations  on 
desertification and land degradation, we shall promote 
a  universal,  rules-based,  open,  non-discriminatory  and 
equitable  multilateral  trading  system,  recognizing  the 
principle  of  special  and  differential  treatment  for 
developing countries, focused on providing preferential 
access  to  products  from  developing  countries  and 
avoiding the implementation of trade protectionism and 
other  trade-distorting  measures.  Subsidies  applied  in 
developed countries not only distort international trade 
but  also  lead  to  the  over-exploitation  of  natural 
resources and, consequently, to land degradation. 

We  look  forward  to  engaging  in  a  constructive 
and meaningful debate today that pays due attention to 
the  issues  raised  by  developing  countries  and  finds  a 
way to address them effectively. 
The President (spoke in Arabic): I now give the 

floor to the incoming President of the tenth session of 
the  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Convention to Combat Desertification, His Excellency 
Mr.  Lee  Don  Koo,  who  is  also  Minister  of  Forest 
Service in the Republic of Korea. 
Mr.  Lee  Don  Koo  (Republic  of  Korea):  I  am 

truly  honoured  to  have  this  opportunity  to  deliver  an 
address  at  this  important  High-level  Meeting  of  the 
General  Assembly.  I  am  particularly  delighted  to  be 
joined by distinguished leaders from all over the world.  

We  are  gathering  here  at  the  Assembly’s  sixty-
sixth session to deal with the very important theme of 
“Addressing  desertification, 
land  degradation  and 
drought in the context of sustainable development and 
poverty  eradication”.  I  believe  that  the  presence  of 
those gathered here today signifies their utmost interest 
in examining the gravity of the issue. 
Today, more than 12 million hectares of land are 

being 
land 
degradation and drought. Three billion people are now 
in a state of serious poverty and one third of them live 
to  desertification, 
lost  every  year 
11-50534 

7 

of 
the 
issue 
impacts 
desertification, 
A/66/PV.6 

in  drylands,  as  evidenced  in  the  UNDP  study  “The 
Forgotten  Billion”.  Previously, 
of 
desertification,  land  degradation  and  drought  failed  to 
receive  the  international  attention  it  deserves  and  was 
considered only as the problem of those in drylands.  
We  have  also  witnessed  the  devastating  and 

transboundary 
land 
degradation and drought, such as frequent floods, dust 
and  sandstorms,  landslides,  loss  of  biodiversity  and 
climate  change.  Hence,  as  this  issue  is  increasingly 
recognized as an impending global concern, we need a 
new way of thinking. 

Land  and  soil  are  the  property  not  only  of  the 
present  generation  but  also  of  future  generations.  We 
have the responsibility to use them in a sustainable way 
so as to enable our descendants to enjoy the benefits of 
healthy  and  productive  ecosystems.  Recognizing  that 
for  all  generations  land  is  indispensable  to  sustain 
decent  lives,  we  need  to  reverse  the  history  of 
negligence and shed new light on desertification, land 
degradation and drought. Thus, we need to find ways to 
promote  the  socio-economic  benefits  of  the  land  and 
ensure  conservation  of  the  environment  at  the  same 
time. That will require a paradigm shift from a growth-
driven economy to a “green growth economy”. 

A  new  growth  paradigm  in  Republic  of  Korea 
was put forth by President Lee Myung-bak in 2008, in 
pursuit  of  green  growth  and  adaptation 
to  and 
mitigation  of  climate  change.  President  Lee  Myung-bak 
pledged to exert himself for the country to achieve that, 
which led to the development of new polices on green 
growth nationwide. 

Sustainable land management incorporating green 
growth  would  be  an  efficient  and  pragmatic  approach 
to address desertification, land degradation and drought 
and improve long-term benefits from the environment. 
To  succeed  in  sustainable  land  management,  a  long-
term approach is needed, as it cannot be achieved in a 
short period of time.  

I  would  also  like  to  stress  that  green  growth 
encompasses ecosystemic development, which is a new 
economic  mechanism  designed  to  encourage  pro-poor 
policies  at  global,  regional  and  national  levels.  A 
critical component of this is a win-win growth strategy 
that 
affected  by 
desertification, 
land  degradation  and  drought  and 
developed  countries  to  achieve  a  sustainable  society 
through sustainable development. 
enable  both 
countries 
can 
of 
Its 
history 
countries. 
to  move 
I  believe  Korea  can  set  a  good  example  for 

affected 
successful 
reforestation  demonstrated  well  that  sustainable  land 
management  can  serve  as  a  first  step  to  break  the 
dilemma  of  poverty,  desertification,  land  degradation 
and  drought.  From  the  last  of  the  nineteenth  century 
until  the  mid-twentieth  century,  Korea  was  trapped  in 
poverty  and  went  through  a  chaotic  period.  However, 
with  all-out  efforts  by  the  Government  and  people 
alike, we overcame the crisis and were able to establish 
a solid foundation for sustainable development through 
remarkable rehabilitation of degraded lands. 

Mr.  Zinsou  (Benin),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

Truly, the challenges ahead of us are daunting and 
cannot  be  dealt  with  easily.  Let  us  remain  bold, 
ambitious  and  creative  to  end  the  desertification,  land 
degradation  and  drought  that  generate  poverty  and 
undermine  sustainable  development.  We  need  a 
concerted effort and strengthened political commitment 
to join forces and mobilize the available resources. It is 
crucial  to  promote  global  partnerships,  not  only  to 
combat  desertification,  land  degradation  and  drought 
but  also 
into  a  sustainable 
international community in which everyone can obtain 
a decent life, regardless of nationality, age and gender. 

With  the  convening  of  the  tenth  session  of  the 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Convention to Combat Desertification — COP 10 — in 
Korea,  I  hope  that  all  here  can  participate  in  this 
significant event to discuss how we can solve in unison 
the  dismal  problems  brought  by  desertification,  land 
degradation  and  drought.  It  is  worth  pointing  out  that 
the 
first  Business  Forum  on  Sustainable  Land 
Management will be launched on l7 and 18 October at 
the COP 10. It aims to encourage greater involvement 
and  participation 
land 
management  activities  on  the  part  of  civil  society  and 
business  people. 
the  valuable 
participation  and  support  of  all  here  will  greatly 
contribute  to  the  success  of  COP  10  in  Korea.  I  look 
forward to welcoming all. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Andris  Piebalgs,  European 
Commissioner  for  Development  of 
the  European 
Union. 
Mr.  Piebalgs  (European  Union):  I  have  the 

honour to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU) 
in  promoting  sustainable 
I  believe 
forward 
that 
8 

11-50534 
they  have 
We  welcome 
the  European  Union 
this  high-level  event  and 


and  its  member  States.  Croatia,  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Iceland, Albania, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Serbia,  Ukraine  and  the 
Republic  of  Moldova  align  themselves  with  this 
declaration. 

the 
opportunity  it  provides  us  to  turn  our  attention  to  this 
critical issue facing the global community. The issue of 
desertification and land degradation is one of the most 
serious threats to the livelihoods of the poorest people 
in  developing  countries  today,  where  subsistence  and 
prospects for improvement are based on the sustainable 
exploitation  of  natural  resources.  This  problem  not 
only  has 
serious  economic  and  environmental 
consequences;  it  also  has  significant  political  and 
social effects. 
These  problems,  however,  are  not  limited  to 

reached  global 
developing  countries; 
dimensions.  Within 
itself, 
12 member  States  have  declared  themselves  affected 
countries with substantial areas already subject to land 
degradation. In its current capacity as presidency of the 
European Union, Poland will continue to work actively 
in  the  areas  of  climate  change,  green  economies  and 
land degradation issues within the EU.  
In  order  to  address  these  challenges,  there  is  a 

need  for  coherent  policies, 
that 
formulate  measures  for  affected  countries  aimed  at 
tackling  the  problems  at  an  early  stage.  At  the  same 
time,  we  need  to  recognize  that  pressures  linked  to 
growing  populations, 
insecurity  and  water 
shortages  are  often  drivers  of  unsustainable  land-use 
practices.  Addressing 
and 
desertification  also  has  significant  benefits,  with 
increased  agricultural  yields  and  enhanced  ecosystem 
services. 

In their external policies, the European Union and 
its  member  States  have  highlighted  the  importance  of 
sustainable  land-management  policies  that  contribute 
to  poverty  alleviation  and  food  security  in  the  long 
term.  The  European  Union  funds  a  broad  range  of 
actions  and  programmes  designed  to  address  land 
degradation  in  developing  countries.  They  promote 
sustainable land-management techniques that take into 
account  local  and  regional  conditions  and  seek  to 
combine traditional knowledge with new and emerging 
technologies.  Key  examples  of  regional  initiatives  in 
Africa  are 
the  Sahara  and  Sahel  Observatory; 
degradation 
including 
those 
food 
land 
A/66/PV.6
In 
this 
that 
Today, 
framework 
environmental 
the  Sub-Sahara-wide 
TerrAfrica, 
that 
promotes  sustainable  land  management;  and  the  Great 
Green Wall initiative of the Sahara and the Sahel, all of 
which are aimed at mitigating the risk of desertification 
while at the same time alleviating poverty. 

The  importance  of  land  as  a  key  resource  has 
been highlighted in preparations for next year’s United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
(Rio+20)  in  Rio  de  Janeiro.  Rio+20  offers  a  unique 
opportunity  to  secure  a  renewed  political  commitment 
to  sustainable  development. 
framework, 
investing in sustainable land management is an integral 
part of achieving the shift to a green economy. In that 
context,  we  actively  support  the  initiative  on  the 
economics  of 
land  degradation  as  a  means  of 
developing a clearer understanding of the full costs of 
land  degradation.  The  global  study  aims  to  raise 
awareness  of 
issue  and  help  policymakers 
implement  effective  strategies  to  address  the  problem, 
as  well  as  to  set  out  the  incentives  for  private-sector 
investment in sustainable land-management policies. 

development 
challenges  are  linked.  Sustainable  land  management 
has become vitally important, representing the missing 
link needed to tackle climate change, biodiversity loss 
and  food  insecurity.  In  that  regard,  the  clear  shared 
objectives  among  the  three  Rio  conventions  and  the 
importance  of  taking  coordinated  action  must  be 
recognized.  
As part of our commitment to the United Nations 

Convention 
to  Combat  Desertification  (UNCCD), 
together  with  the  scientific  community  and  civil 
society,  we  are  ready  to  support  improvement  of  the 
knowledge base on desertification and land degradation 
worldwide and to enable affected developing countries 
to implement national  action plans.  In that regard, the 
effective 
the  UNCCD  10-year 
strategic  plan  (see  ICCD/COP(8)/16/Add.1)  is  crucial, 
as  is  effective  cooperation  between  the  Convention 
bodies. 

The European Union and its member States look 
forward  to  the  forthcoming  tenth  Conference  of  the 
Parties to the UNCCD (COP-10), which will take place 
in Changwon, Republic of Korea, next month. Coming 
at a key moment, less than a year before Rio+20, COP-10 
is  an  opportunity 
to  establish  a  new,  concerted 
approach  in  order  to  enable  us  to  effectively  meet  the 
implementation  of 
and 
11-50534 

9 

land  degradation  and  meeting 
A/66/PV.6 

challenges of desertification and land degradation that 
the world faces today. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Jato  Sillah,  Minister  for  Forestry 
and the Environment of the Gambia, who will speak on 
behalf of the African States. 
Mr. Sillah (Gambia): It is my pleasure and great 

personal privilege to deliver this statement on behalf of 
the  African  Group  on  the  occasion  of  the  High-level 
Meeting on the theme “Addressing desertification, land 
degradation  and  drought  in  the  context  of  sustainable 
development and poverty eradication”. First, the Group 
aligns  itself  with  the  statement  delivered  by  the 
representative  of Argentina  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
77 and China. 

Desertification  is  a  global  issue,  with  serious 
implications  for  worldwide  eco-safety,  food  security, 
socio-economic  stability  and  sustainable  development. 
Among  the  countries  most  affected  are  the  African 
nations,  which  face  serious  difficulties  in  combating 
desertification, 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  The  high 
level  of  rural  poverty  in  many  developing  countries, 
particularly in Africa, continues to be among the most 
serious 
constraints  on  progress 
combating 
desertification and land degradation.  
At the same time, these problems exacerbate rural 

poverty  in  affected  developing  countries.  We  would 
like  to  stress  that  while  every  developing  country  is 
affected  by  these  phenomena,  the  present  situation  of 
the drylands constitutes a matter of the utmost concern. 
With  more  than  1  billion  inhabitants  who  are  among 
the  poorest  on  the  planet,  the African  continent  is  the 
most  constrained  in  its  efforts  to  achieve  the  MDGs, 
particularly  those  relating  to  hunger,  poverty  and 
environmental sustainability. 

This  High-level  Meeting  therefore  provides  an 
opportunity  to  articulate  and  propose  solutions  to  the 
difficulties  encountered  in  fulfilling  the  commitments 
the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable 
made  during 
Development  and  other 
related  conferences  and 
meetings. In this regard, we emphasize the importance 
of  identifying  the  specific  means  of  implementation 
that  will  enable  developing  countries,  including  those 
in  Africa,  to  derive  benefit  from  their  commitments. 
This  has  become  very  urgent  in  light  of  the  need  to 
narrow  the  increasing  gap  between  developed  and 
developing countries. 
in 
In  addition 
to 
those 
situation  of 
The  present 
the  drylands 

Desertification  and  land  degradation  affect  all 
regions  of  the  world  and  continue  to  pose  a  serious 
threat  to  sustainable  development  at  the  national, 
regional and global levels. Poverty, food insecurity and 
desertification  are  intricately  linked  and  must  be 
tackled jointly. 

in 
developing  countries  —  whose  more  than  1  billion 
inhabitants  are  among  the  poorest  people  on  the 
planet —  has  constrained  their  efforts  to  achieve  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  in  particular  those 
goals  related  to  hunger,  poverty  and  environmental 
sustainability.  

African  countries  remain  committed  to  fulfilling 
their  obligations  under  all  multilateral  agreements. 
However, the results achieved so far have been limited 
by  the  challenges  posed  by  a  number  of  global  crises 
that  have  negatively 
impacted  development  and 
environmental efforts in the continent. 

the  continent 
issues, 
continues  to  grapple  with  obstacles  resulting  from  a 
basic  lack  of  technology  transfer  and  the  inability  to 
build  and  develop  institutional  capacities  and  enhance 
its  human  resources  endowment,  which,  among  other 
things,  has  suffered  repeated  forced  displacement  and 
the  migration  of  highly  qualified  people  to  other 
regions.  That  phenomenon  must  be  resolved  through 
concerted efforts.  

It  is  clear  that  the  African  Group  needs  a 
scientific  panel  to  advise  it  on  taking  the  United 
Nations  Convention 
to  Combat  Desertification 
(UNCCD) forward. That applies to the entire UNCCD; 
we definitely need a scientific panel. 

In  this  regard,  we  firmly  call  upon  all  parties  to 
fully support the implementation of the United Nations 
Convention to Combat Desertification in all its aspects, 
in particular by promoting the exchange of knowledge 
on  best  practices  and  lessons  learned  through  global 
and regional cooperation on combating desertification, 
land degradation and drought. Emphasis should also be 
placed  on  mobilizing  and  channelling  adequate  and 
predictable 
resources,  as  well  as  on 
facilitating their direct access in order to help mitigate 
the  effects  of  desertification,  land  degradation  and 
drought  and  to  improve  the  livelihoods  of  vulnerable 
people  affected  by  these  most  urgent  matters  at  the 
national, subregional and regional levels. 
financial 
10 

11-50534 
to 
the 
line 
the  UNCCD  has 
in  combating  desertification  and 
The  10-year  strategic  plan  and 
strengthened 
international  community 



framework 
adopted at the eighth session of the Conference of the 
the 
Parties 
commitment  of 
to 
implement the Convention at all levels. It has enabled 
the  Convention  to  be  more  broadly  engagement  at  the 
front 
land 
degradation,  mitigating  the  effects  of  drought  and 
contributing to the fight against climate change. In that 
respect, the UNCCD serves as a platform for adapting 
to  climate  change,  mitigating 
its  effects  and 
strengthening resilience.  

With respect to strengthened synergies among the 
three  relevant  Conventions,  enhancing  coordinated 
actions  and  opportunities  of  mutual  benefit  must  be 
strongly  encouraged  efforts  to  combat  desertification, 
preserve  dryland  ecosystems,  conserve  wet  lands  and 
combat  climate  change.  It  must  be  acknowledged  that 
desertification, 
land  degradation  and  drought  are 
challenges  of  a  cross-sector  nature  and  global 
dimension because they affect all regions of the world. 
Thus,  all  relevant  United  Nations  organizations  and 
agencies and all parties concerned must cooperate with 
all  stakeholders  in  supporting  an  effective  global 
response to those grave and profound problems with a 
view to mitigating their effects and negative impact on 
the environment and the global economy. 
To this end, the Group of African States reaffirms 

its commitment to initiatives such as the Johannesburg 
Plan  of  Implementation  of  the  World  Summit  on 
Sustainable  Development  and  its  2008-2018  10-year 
strategic 
enhance 
implementation of the Convention, which is recognized 
as one of the tools for poverty eradication. The Group 
also stresses its deep concern over the negative impacts 
that  desertification, 
loss  of 
biodiversity  and  climate  change  have  on  each  other, 
and 
recognizes 
of 
complementarity 
those  challenges 
through collective and effective action at all levels in a 
mutually supportive manner. 

Africa  is  the  most  vulnerable  and  disadvantaged 
continent  in  the  context  of  achieving  the  goals  of 
socio-economic  development.  We  therefore  stress  the 
importance of the international community fulfilling its 
commitments to supporting Africa in its efforts, as was 
promised  at 
the  World  Summit  on  Sustainable 
Development.  Equally  important  is  the  urgent  need  to 
match promises with actual delivery on the assurances 
land  degradation, 
in  addressing 
framework 
potential 
benefits 
plan 
and 
the 
A/66/PV.6
the  human  and 
for  harmonizing 
contained  in  the  political  declaration  on  Africa’s 
development  needs  under  the  New  Partnership  for 
Africa’s Development, and the conclusions reached by 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  Africa  Steering 
Group. 

We  stress  that  the  provision  of  sufficient  and 
predictable  funding,  the  transfer  of  environmentally 
sound  technologies,  and  support  and  encouragement 
aimed  at  building 
institutional 
capacities  of  African  countries  will  contribute 
significantly to achievement of the desired goals in the 
fields  being  considered  at  this  High-level  Meeting. 
International  development  cooperation  can  play  a 
critical  role  in  mobilizing  resources  for  investment  in 
the  fight  against  desertification  and  land  degradation 
and in improved technology and technology transfer to 
promote  rural  development.  In  this  respect,  we  also 
underline the importance of increasing the quantity and 
quality  of  official  development  assistance,  and  of 
reducing  or  cancelling  outright  the  external  debt  in 
favour of the neediest African countries. 
As we all know, the African Union is the flagship 

organization 
coordinating 
continental programmes in Africa. Despite the progress 
made 
regional  and 
subregional  levels,  the  implementation  gap  in  Africa 
remains  wide.  We  therefore  call  for  the  strengthening 
of 
and 
programmes  of  the  African  Union  and  the  regional 
economic communities to ensure the effective transfer 
of  policies  and  programmes  into  concrete  measures, 
especially  in  the  field  of  sustainable  development. 
Ensuring  equitable  access  by  farmers  to  regional  and 
global  markets,  and  providing  practical  help  and 
capacity-building  to  those  stakeholders  in  marketing 
agricultural products is essential to their willingness to 
invest in long-term sustainable land management, since 
they  would  then  be  able  to  reap  the  future  rewards  of 
such investment. 
As we all know, forests play an important role in 

preventing both desertification and land degradation as 
well  as 
lands.  The 
implementation  of  the  non-legally  binding  instrument 
on  all  types  of  forests,  adopted  by  the  General 
Assembly in 2007 (resolution 62/98, annex), provides a 
framework 
forest 
to  combating 
management  and  will  contribute 
desertification,  mitigating 
climate 
change 
and 
preserving forest biological diversity. 
in  developing  policies  at 
encouragement  of  plans 
rehabilitating  degraded 
sustainable 
advancing 
support 
and 
and 
for 
in 
to 
11-50534 

11 
A/66/PV.6 


Finally, integrating action programmes to combat 
desertification into development frameworks will serve 
as  practical  tool  in  combating  desertification  and 
implementing  the  UNCCD.  Given  that  desertification 
cuts  across  all  sectors,  it  is  essential  to  ensure 
coordination  among  all  relevant  Government  agencies 
at  central  and  local  levels  in  the  implementation  of 
national  action  plans,  with  the  active  involvement  of 
civil  society.  It  is  therefore  important  to  mainstream 
such  actions  plans  within  national  development 
strategies  and  poverty  reduction  plans.  Strengthening 
the  support  of  the  international  community  through 
bilateral,  regional  and  subregional  cooperation  will 
remain crucial for implementing action programmes to 
combat desertification and land degradation. 
The  implementation  of  national  action  plans 

should  be  based  on 
integrated  approaches  and 
supported  by  legislation.  The  modes  of  economic 
growth and means of production and consumption must 
be  improved  in  order  to  achieve  harmony  between 
conservation  and  development,  as  well  as  a  balance 
between economic and social benefits.  

In  conclusion,  the  African  Group  attaches  great 
importance 
the  United  Nations 
Commission  on  Sustainable  Development.  We  should 
continue  to  provide  guidance  and  coordination  on 
issues related to the integration of the three dimensions 
of socio-economic development, and more importantly, 
the means of their implementation.  
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  floor  to 

Mr. Rajiv  Shah,  Administrator  of  the  United  States 
Agency for International Development, who will speak 
in his capacity as the representative of the host country. 
Mr.  Shah  (United  States  of  America):  It  is  my 

honour to join the General Assembly today in focusing 
on the global challenges of drought, desertification and 
land degradation. Right now, these dangerous realities 
are  threatening  the  lives  and  livelihoods  of  over 
1 billion people who live in fragile dryland ecosystems. 
They  severely  limit  our  collective  goals  of  promoting 
sustainable  development,  eradicating  poverty  and 
strengthening  food  security.  They  also 
limit  and 
threaten our national security. 

Nowhere  is  this  challenge  more  critical  and  the 
need  for  action  more  pressing  than  in  the  Horn  of 
Africa. There, the devastating consequences of famine 
are playing out before our eyes in the stories of women 
who  have  to  watch  their  children  literally  die  in  their 
role  of 
the 
to 

Although 
is  supporting 
arms. We know that the Horn of Africa is experiencing 
its  worst  drought  in  60  years,  and  that  3.3  million 
people — predominately women and children — are in 
need  of  emergency  assistance.  As  the  single  largest 
humanitarian  and  development  partner  in  the  region, 
the  United  States 
life-saving  aid, 
including  food,  water  and  medicines,  for  millions  of 
people.  

the  American  people  will  always 
provide  aid  in  times  of  urgent  need,  emergency 
assistance is  not the most  efficient or lasting solution. 
The  reality  is  that  we  must  do  more  to  prevent  these 
crises  in  the  first  place. That  is  why  President  Obama 
launched a global food security initiative called “Feed 
the  Future”  to  help  countries  develop  their  own 
resilient  agricultural  sectors  and  food  systems  so  they 
can feed themselves over the long term. 

Through  these  partnerships,  Kenya  has  seen  a 
more  than  300  per  cent  increase  in  maize  yields  in 
certain  western  parts  of  the  country,  while  vitamin 
A-enriched  sweet  potatoes  are  now  reaching  hundreds 
of  thousands  of  malnourished  children  in  Uganda, 
Mozambique and other parts of sub-Saharan Africa. 

These  achievements  are  the  result  of  collective 
action.  African  Governments,  the  private  sector,  civil 
society  and  local  farmers  —  mostly  women  —  are 
increasing  their  investments  in  agriculture,  adopting 
new  innovations  and  technologies,  and  measuring 
results. 

We  believe  that  this  new  form  of  partnership 
extends  through  to  the  United  Nations  Convention  to 
Combat  Desertification.  The  United  States  strongly 
supports the Convention and its clear mandate to focus 
to  enable  better  results.  Addressing 
on  drylands 
desertification 
through 
land 
management and agricultural development is one of the 
most effective tools we have to prevent the crises that 
we  are  now  seeing  throughout  the  Horn  and  in  other 
vulnerable regions.  

In  fact,  as  a  nation,  we  have  a  long  history  of 
grappling  with  the  devastating  consequences  of  soil 
degradation and severe drought. As we speak, the State 
of  Texas  is  enduring  one  of  the  worst  one-year 
droughts in recorded history. In the 1930s, a prolonged 
catastrophe  of  drought,  land  degradation  and  food 
shortage  led  to  the American  Dust  Bowl,  resulting  in 
the migration of 2.5 million people. As a result of our 
experiences, the United States fundamentally reformed 
long-term,  sustainable 
12 

11-50534 
science 
policy 
improve 
platform 
to  manage  our  productive 


our strategies and methods of dryland management. We 
strengthened collaboration between local Governments 
and  farmers,  invested  in  agricultural  universities  to 
foster  scientific  innovations  in  farming  practices  and 
water  management,  and  embarked  on  larger-scale 
efforts 
lands  more 
sustainably. 

An  aggressive  focus  on  science  and  improved 
technology  has  been  a  vital  part  of  our  approach. 
Therefore,  the  United  States  supports  the  proposed 
intergovernmental 
on 
biodiversity  and  ecosystem  services,  which  will  cover 
dryland ecosystems as opposed to a separate, narrower 
science mechanism devoted solely to the Convention.  

We remain committed to harnessing the power of 
science  and  technology  to  help  transform  global 
agriculture  and 
the  quality  of  natural 
resources. Across the international community, we now 
have  the  knowledge  to  establish  stable,  productive 
environments,  dramatically 
improve  crop  yields, 
mitigate  natural  disasters  and  deliver  results  for 
vulnerable, often small-scale farm households.  
In  order  to  meet  the  challenge  of  poverty  and 

hunger  around  the  world,  we  have  to  invest  in  long-
term solutions through “Feed the Future”, focusing on 
connecting  smallholder  farmers  to  strong  markets  and 
harnessing  advances  in  science  and  technology.  As 
Secretary  of  State  Hillary  Clinton  has  said,  “The 
question  is  not  whether  we  can  end  hunger;  it  is 
whether we will”. 
That  is  why  “Feed  the  Future”  is  driving  a  new 

approach  to  global  food  security.  In  Tanzania,  we  are 
working  in  partnership  with  Governments,  companies 
and  other  donors  to  make  major  investments  in  the 
Southern Agricultural Growth Corridor of that country. 
In regions vulnerable to drought — like the Ethiopian 
highlands  —  we  are  focusing  particularly  on  drought-
resistant  crops  and  improved  soil,  water  and  land 
management. 
A/66/PV.6
techniques  have 

These efforts build on 40 years of experience the 
United  States  Government  and  the  United  States 
Agency  for  International  Development  have  had  in 
greening the  Sahel, where  farmer led agroforestry and 
water  management 
transformed 
50 million hectares threatened by desertification — an 
area larger than Sweden — into sustainably productive 
lands. 

We  welcome  ongoing  collaboration  with  the 
global  community  to  help  address  the  crisis  in  the 
Horn, and continue in particular to call on Al-Shabaab 
to  allow  unfettered  humanitarian  access  in  areas  it 
controls. Hundreds of thousands of lives are at stake.  

But  responding  to  the  crisis  today  is  not  only  a 
moral  imperative;  it  also  protects  our  national  and 
global security. In regions where we witness scarcity of 
resources today, we are more prone to face heightened 
tensions  and  conflicts  tomorrow.  By  fighting  drought 
and famine in the Horn today, we fight the despair that 
can lead people towards violence and terrorism. When 
we can help a nation feed itself through good times and 
bad,  we  break  the  cycle  of  food  riots,  famines  and 
failed  States  that  creates  instability  throughout  our 
world. When we help a woman farmer use cutting-edge 
technologies  to  increase  her  harvests,  we  expand  her 
country’s economic potential and develop new markets 
for international trade. And by providing help in times 
of desperate need, we express globally shared values of 
compassion, dignity and equality. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker  for  the  opening  segment  of  the  High-level 
Meeting.  

As  members  are  aware,  pursuant  to  resolution 
65/160, this High-level Meeting will comprise opening 
and  closing  plenary  meetings  as  well  as  two  panel 
discussions.  The  first  panel  will  take  place  this 
morning  in  Conference  Room  4  of  the  North  Lawn 
Building,  immediately  after  the  adjournment  of  this 
opening segment.  

  The meeting rose at 11 a.m. 
11-50534 

13 
