
A/66/PV.49
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

49th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 2 November 2011, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 
issues. 
In  particular, 
considerably in responding to the need to ensure 
all  human  rights  for  all  around  the  world.  It  has 
acted  quickly  and  responded  to  many  situations, 
and 
it  has  also  promoted  dialogue  and 
cooperation  among  States  on  various  human 
rights 
the  consensual 
approach that prevailed throughout the review of 
the  Council’s  methods  of  work  and  functions 
demonstrated the commitment of the membership 
to achieving the shared objective of strengthening 
the human rights system. 

“The  outcome  that  resulted  from  these 
negotiations, as well as the coordinated approach 
between  Geneva  and  New  York  during 
the 
review,  is  welcomed.  I  believe  firmly  that  this 
practice of coordination and consultation between 
the  Council  and  the  Assembly  should  be  built 
upon and enhanced. 

“Allow  me  in  that  regard  to  commend  the 
work  carried  out  by  Ambassador  Sihasak 
Phuangketkeow of Thailand, whose leadership as 
Council President during the review, especially in 
steering the process to a successful conclusion in 
Geneva  and  in  coordinating  efforts  with  the 
General  Assembly,  is  worthy  of  our  special 
appreciation. 

“Following  the  conclusion  of  the  review,  it 
is expected that the Human Rights Council is now 
better  equipped  to  face  the  many  human  rights 
challenges  of  today’s  world.  In  its  five  years  of 
existence, 
the 
the  foremost  achievement  of 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-57707 (E) 
*1157707* 

In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Thomson 
(Fiji) took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 

Agenda item 64 
Report of the Human Rights Council 



  Report of the Human Rights Council (A/66/53 
and A/66/53/Add.1) 
The  Acting  President: In  connection  with  this 

item, I would like to recall that the General Assembly, 
at  its  2nd  plenary  meeting,  on  16  September  2011, 
decided to consider agenda item 64 in plenary meeting 
and in the Third Committee on the understanding that, 
inter  alia,  the  Assembly,  in  plenary  meeting,  would 
consider  the  annual  report  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council on its activities for the year. 

“Alongside 
Statement by the President 
The  Acting  President: I  shall  now  make  a 

statement  on  behalf  of  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly, His Excellency Mr. Nassir Al-Nasser. 
security 


and 
development,  human  rights  constitutes  the  third 
core  agenda  of  the  United  Nations.  In  that 
context, consideration of the report of the Council 
by the Assembly is of special significance. 

“As  a  relatively  young  entity  of  the  United 
Nations  system  in  its  present  form,  the  Human 
Rights  Council  has  grown  and  developed 
peace 
and 












A/66/PV.49 


Rights 
Council’s 
the 
international 
Council has been the successful completion of the 
first cycle of the universal periodic review of the 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations,  which 
were reviewed on the basis of equal treatment on 
their human rights records and performance. The 
spirit  of  cooperation  and,  above  all, 
the 
commitments  displayed  by  the  membership  to 
improving  their  human  rights  records  is  to  be 
commended.  I  look  forward  to  the  second  cycle 
of  reviews  and  to  the  implementation  of  the 
commitments made. 
“I  also  note  with  appreciation  that  the 

Human 
deliberations, 
particularly  in  recent  years,  on  collective  and 
solidarity rights such as the right to development, 
the right to food, the right to safe drinking water 
and sanitation, environmental rights and even the 
right  of  peoples  to  peace,  have  very  effectively 
engaged 
community’s 
expectations  in  connection  with  these  emerging 
rights. 

“Also  worthy  of  special  mention  are  the 
many panel discussions held on a broad range of 
human  rights  issues,  which  have  either  drawn 
international  attention 
to  new  and  emerging 
issues  or  broadened  international  understanding 
of  others.  The  active  participation  of  United 
Nations  entities  and  other  international  and  regional 
organizations in these panel discussions — and more 
generally  in  the  work  of  the  Council  —  has  also 
contributed to human rights mainstreaming in the 
work of the United Nations as a whole. 

the 
significant  work  carried  out  by  the  various 
special  procedure  mechanisms  of  the  Council  — 
the  eyes  and  ears  of  the  human  rights  system. 
They  have  a  key  role  to  play  not  only  in  human 
rights  protection  but  also  in  broadening  and 
advancing the understanding of key human rights 
abuses. 
“As members know, the theme of the sixty-

sixth  session  of 
is 
mediation,  and  I  hope  that  the  Human  Rights 
Council  will  continue  to  be  instrumental  in 
fostering  dialogue  among  the  many  cultures  and 
civilizations,  and  be  guided  by  the  needed  spirit 
of  cooperation  and 
inherent  value  of 
mediation.  In  view  of  the  importance  of  the 
the  General  Assembly 
“I  would  also 
like 
to  underscore 
the 
(A/66/53 
Council’s  work  to  the  overall  objectives  of  the 
General  Assembly,  I  myself  look  forward  to 
addressing the March session of the Council next 
year.” 

With the General Assembly’s full support for the 
work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  for  the  able 
leadership  of  the  current  President,  Her  Excellency 
Ms. Laura Dupuy Lasserre, I now have the pleasure to 
invite her to introduce the report of the Human Rights 
Council. 
In  accordance  with  General Assembly  resolution 

65/281  of  17  June  2011,  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Her 
Excellency  Laura  Dupuy  Lasserre,  President  of  the 
Human Rights Council. 
Ms. Lasserre (Uruguay), President of the Human 

Rights Council (spoke in Spanish): It is a great honour 
to  present  today  to  the Assembly  the  annual  report  of 
the  Human  Rights  Council 
and 
A/66/53/Add.1). Allow me also to take this opportunity 
to congratulate Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser on his 
election and to sincerely wish him a successful tenure. 
The  year  2011  marks  the  fifth  year  since  the 

establishment  of 
the  Human  Rights  Council.  In 
accordance  with 
the  Council 
resolution  60/251, 
undertook  a  review  process  whose  outcome  was 
adopted by its members last March and by the General 
Assembly last June. 

The  review  process  has  proved  to  be  a  valuable 
opportunity  to  assess  the  effectiveness  of  the  Council 
and of its working methods. Even though the outcome 
document  does  not  include  specific  language  on  how 
the  Council  could  enhance 
in 
responding  to  urgent  human  rights  situations,  the 
review  process  has  created  a  momentum  for  rising 
above group politics and responding to such situations 
on the ground in a timely and constructive manner. 

During  the  past  year,  the  Council  has  held  four 
special  sessions  in  relation  to  the  situations  in  Côte 
d’Ivoire, Libya and, on two occasions, the Syrian Arab 
Republic,  and  has  established  commissions  of  inquiry 
and fact-finding missions in order to ascertain facts and 
to  make  recommendations  in  connection  with  human 
rights violations. 

Furthermore,  at  its  most  recent  session,  the 
Council  held  an  interactive  dialogue  with  the  High 
Commissioner on specific country situations, including 
on  Yemen  and  Belarus,  on  which  the  Council  will 
its  effectiveness 
11-57707 




2 

report  back 
and  present 


follow  up. We  held  interactive  dialogues  promoted  by 
concerned  States,  including  Somalia,  and  adopted  a 
number of technical cooperation resolutions, also at the 
request  of  concerned  States  such  as  Tunisia  and 
Cambodia, as well as the Sudan and South Sudan. That 
review  process  generated  a  series  of  follow-up  tasks 
for  the  Council.  In  my  capacity  as  President  and  in 
fulfilment  of  the  mandate  with  which  I  was  entrusted 
by  the  Council,  I  established  a  task  force  to  devise 
ways of improving Secretariat services, accessibility to 
the  work  of  the  Council  for  persons  with  disabilities, 
and the viability of using information technology. That 
team  will 
specific 
recommendations  to  the  Council  during  its  nineteenth 
regular session. 
I  have  also  begun  consultations  on  the  first 

annual  high-level  panel  established  to  incorporate 
human  rights  in  the  general  activities  of  the  United 
Nations  system,  to  be  held  on  28  February  2012, 
during  the  Council’s  March  session. The  Council  will 
shortly invite the heads of United Nations agencies to 
participate  in  that  event  as  panellists  alongside  the 
Secretary-General,  who,  we  hope,  will  deliver  the 
opening 
focus  of 
development  and  cooperation  in  the  field  of  human 
rights, that panel will provide a favourable opportunity 
to assess the progress, achievements and challenges in 
mainstreaming human rights within the United Nations 
system  in  accordance  with  the  mandate  given  to  the 
Council  by  the  General  Assembly,  as  well  as  in 
promoting human rights mainstreaming at the national 
level. 

Another  achievement  of  the  review  process  was 
the  opening  of  new  spaces  for  the  participation  in  the 
Council  of 
rights 
institutions,  in  compliance  with  the  Paris  Principles. 
Such  institutions  are  key  actors  for  improving  the 
situation  on  the  ground,  especially  because  of  their 
potential 
follow-up 
recommendations  of  the  Universal  Periodic  Review 
(UPR), as well as of the special procedures. From now 
on,  their  contributions  to  the  UPR  process  will  be 
reflected  in  a  separate  part  of  the  summary  of 
stakeholders’  information  provided  by  my  Office,  and 
they will be able to take the floor right after the State 
under review at the adoption of the UPR regarding that 
State in Council plenary meetings. National institutions 
will  also  be  able  to  take  the  floor  following  the  State 
concerned  after  the  presentation  of  country  mission 
accredited  national 
statement.  Under 
the  broad 
to  play 
human 
role 
the 
a 
in 
A/66/PV.49
the  Council  and 
The  annual  report  of 
reports by special procedures. We began to implement 
this new procedure last September. The review has also 
reinforced  the  quality  of  the  selection  process  for 
holders of special procedures mandates. 

its 
addendum,  which  I  am  presenting  to  the  Assembly 
today, contain the resolutions and decisions adopted by 
the  Council  at  its  sixteenth  and  seventeenth  regular 
sessions  and  at  its  fourteenth,  fifteenth  and  sixteenth 
special sessions, which took place under the presidency 
of  my  predecessor,  Ambassador  Sihasak  Phuangketkeow, 
Permanent Representative of Thailand, and those adopted 
at  the  seventeenth  special  session  and  the  eighteenth 
regular  session  under  my  presidency,  which  began  on 
20 June. 

During  its  past  three  regular  sessions,  among 
other debates, the Council has held a total of 14 panel 
discussions  designed  to  share  the  visions  of  a  broad 
range  of  actors,  including  United  Nations  experts  on 
human  rights  and  representatives  from  civil  society, 
academia, Governments and international and regional 
organizations.  The  themes  of  those  panels  included, 
inter alia, the rights of victims of terrorism; aspects of 
human  rights  in  the  context  of  measures  adopted  in 
cases  of  hostage-taking  by  terrorists;  the  rights  of 
children  who  work  or  live  on  the  street;  violence 
against women; the health  rights of older persons; the 
role  of  international  cooperation  in  improving  the 
quality  of 
the 
languages  and  cultures  of  indigenous  peoples;  best 
practices 
racial 
discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related  forms  of 
intolerance;  the  complete  fulfilment  of  the  human 
rights  of  people  of African  descent;  the  strengthening 
of 
initiatives  aimed  at  promoting  a 
worldwide  dialogue  that  will  encourage  a  culture  of 
tolerance and peace at every level, based on respect for 
human rights and the diversity of religions and beliefs; 
the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  in  the 
context of peaceful protests; and the realization of the 
right  to  development.  As  should  be  evident,  those 
themes suggest the Council’s concern with identifying 
specific 
in 
promoting the rights of people who belong to a diverse 
range of social groups.  

The  Council  now  has  a  total  of  44  special 
procedures  under  way,  including  both  country  and 
thematic  mandates.  The  newly  created  mandates 
include  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  situation  of 
forms  of  protection  and  challenges 
life  of  persons  with  disabilities; 
international 
racism, 
against 
fight 
the 
in 
11-57707 

3 

the  Rights  of 
the  Child  providing 
A/66/PV.49 

human  rights  in  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  the 
independent expert on the situation of human rights in 
Côte  d’Ivoire,  the  Working  Group  on  the  issue  of 
human  rights  and  transnational  corporations  and  other 
business  enterprises,  the  independent  expert  on  the 
promotion  of  a  democratic  and  equitable  international 
order, and the Special Rapporteur on the promotion of 
truth, justice, reparation and guarantees on non-recurrence. 

The Council has also undertaken standard-setting 
activities  through  its  working  groups.  The  United 
Nations  declaration  on  human  rights  education  and 
training  and  the  Optional  Protocol  to  the  Convention 
on 
for  a 
communications procedure have been submitted to the 
General Assembly for adoption. 

I  am  pleased  to  report  that  on  17  October,  the 
Working Group on the UPR concluded the last session 
of  its  inaugural  work  cycle.  Although  that  cycle  will 
formally end at the forthcoming regular session of the 
Council  in  March  2012,  with  the  adoption  of  the 
outcome  documents  of 
last  seventeen  States 
examined, it is important to emphasize that the human 
rights  situations  of  all  193  United  Nations  States 
Members have been considered by the Working Group 
and  by  the  Council,  with  most  of  the  States  under 
review  represented  by  very  high-level  ministers.  That 
is a milestone in United Nations history. 

The  second  cycle  of  the  UPR,  which  begins  on 
21 May  2012,  will  be  critical  to  the  success  of  this 
mechanism.  It  will  provide  an  opportunity  for  States 
and  other  stakeholders  to  take  stock  of  developments 
since  the  previous  review,  to  examine  the  progress  in 
the 
to 
reassess  the  human  rights  situation  in  general.  The 
transition  from  a  four-year  to  a  four  and  a  half-year 
cycle  means  that  the  Working  Group  will  review 
fourteen  countries,  instead  of  sixteen,  at  each  session. 
The  time  available  for  each  review  will  therefore 
increase from three hours to three and a half. Some of 
those  adjustments  require  a  few  additional  human  and 
financial  resources  in  terms  of  conference  services. 
Most  importantly,  the  General  Assembly  should  keep 
in  mind  that,  since  the  UPR’s  creation  in  2008,  that 
successful  and  valued  mechanism  has  not  received 
adequate funding from the regular budget, in particular 
with regard to the timely and appropriate translation of 
documents. 
recommendations,  and 
implementation  of 
the 
of 
four 
the 
issued 
service 
establishment 
requirements; 
in  2010  was  close 

Before  concluding,  I  would  like  to  touch  briefly 
upon  the  significant  challenges  facing  the  Human 
Rights  Council  in  terms  of  the  resources  it  needs  to 
continue its activities. As I mentioned earlier, the past 
year has witnessed renewed attention by the Council to 
urgent  human  rights  situations,  leading  to  an  increase 
in  the  number  of  resolutions  and  decisions  adopted, 
which entails significant financial repercussions. While 
the  total  cost  of  resources  required  by  Human  Rights 
Council  mandates 
to 
$5 million,  this  year  the  total  rose  to  more  than 
$24 million.  The  main  reason  for  that  increase  stems 
from 
independent 
commissions  of  inquiry  and  fact-finding  missions,  as 
well  as 
the  creation  of  new  special  procedures 
mandates.  Those  amounts  have  a  direct  impact  on 
conference 
the  Geneva 
conference  capacity  is  underfunded  and  has  already 
reached  its  limit,  as  a  result  of  which  a  growing 
number  of  reports  are  not  made  available  in  all  the 
official  languages  before  being  considered.  As  was 
decided in the resolution adopted by the Human Rights 
Council on the review of its work and functioning, the 
General Assembly will during this session consider the 
issue  of  making  additional  funds  available  quickly  in 
order  to  implement  urgent  new  mandates  adopted  by 
the Council at each session. 

I would therefore like to ask for cooperation and 
support  when  the  Fifth  Committee  addresses  this 
important issue by giving positive consideration to the 
options  that  may  be  presented  in  the  Secretary-
General’s report, particularly as regards the funding of 
unforeseen  or  extraordinary  expenditures  arising  from 
the  Council’s  resolutions  and  decisions.  To  that  end, 
the  unexpected  emergency  expenditures  mechanism 
could  be  adjusted  to  cover  the  funding  of  urgent 
mandates  with  significant  financial  implications,  such 
as  fact-finding  missions  and  independent  international 
commissions of inquiry. 

Pursuant  to  Assembly  resolution  65/281,  on  the 
review  of  the  work  and  functioning  of  the  Council,  I 
will,  as  an  interim  measure,  hold  the  presidency  until 
the  end  of  2012  and  will  have  the  honour  to  return  to 
the  Assembly  next  year  in  order  to  report  on  the 
Council’s activities during the period of my presidency. 
In  conclusion,  I  reiterate  my  commitment,  not  only  to 
follow up on the outcome of the review, but to oversee 
generally  the  efficient  functioning  of  the  Council 
4 

11-57707 
like 
to  emphasize 


during  my  tenure.  I  am  grateful  for  the  Council’s 
attention and support. 
Mr.  Sefue  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania):  The 

African  Group  is  grateful  to  the  President  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  and  her  entire  staff  for  their 
engagement and efforts on behalf of the promotion and 
protection of human rights in the world. The Group is 
very  much  aware  of  how  challenging  her  task  is,  for 
every  country  in  the  world  has  its  own  issues  and 
challenges requiring attention. It is for this reason that 
the African Group would like to express its support for 
her and her team and to reaffirm its commitment to the 
work of the Human Rights Council. The African Group 
would  also 
that  continued 
engagement on this subject with all stakeholders is key 
to arriving at an understanding of the issues on which 
Member  States  diverge  and  to  advancing  those  that 
they agree on. 

The African  Group  welcomes  the  opportunity  to 
participate in this discussion. The Group has taken note 
of the efforts of the President of the Council to lead the 
Council  towards  a  successful  outcome  of  the  review 
process.  In  particular,  we  appreciate  the  open  format 
for the second session of the Working Group, allowing 
for  the  effective  participation  of  members,  observers 
and other stakeholders. 

The  African  Group  believes  that  the  Human 
Rights  Council,  as  a  subsidiary  body  of  the  General 
Assembly,  plays  a  crucial  role  in  protecting  and 
mainstreaming  human  rights  worldwide.  Last  year, 
within  its  mandate,  the  General Assembly  carried  out 
negotiations on the review of the Council with a view 
to  strengthening  the  Council’s  functions  and  methods 
of  work.  The  African  Group  welcomes  the  consensus 
approach  and  outcome 
those 
negotiations,  as  well  as  the  coordinated  approach 
between  Geneva  and  New  York  during  the  review 
process. That practice should be strengthened, and the 
African Group is confident that we will all benefit from 
the  new  practice  of  holding  an  interactive  dialogue 
between the Third Committee and the President of the 
Human Rights Council. 

The  African  Group  reaffirms  its  support  for  the 
General Assembly decision to allocate the agenda item 
on the report of the Human Rights Council both to the 
Assembly plenary and to the Third Committee. We are 
pleased that the President of the Human Rights Council 
is now able to present the report in his or her capacity 
that  resulted  from 
A/66/PV.49
the  Office 
of 
intensify 
face 
varying 
degrees 
of 
to  continue  and 
as  President  to  the  plenary  meetings  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  the Third  Committee. Those  bodies  are 
now  able  to  consider  and  act  on  all  recommendations 
of  the  Council  to  the  Assembly,  including  those  that 
deal  with  the  development  of  international  law  in  the 
field of human rights. 

The  Group  looks  forward  to  reinforcing  the 
Council’s efforts to combat all forms of discrimination 
around the world on the grounds of race, sex, language 
or religion, particularly discrimination against women, 
and  deal  with 
issues  regarding  national,  ethnic, 
religious  or  linguistic  minorities  and  migrants  and 
others  who 
social 
marginalization  and  discrimination.  Our  endeavour  in 
that  regard  should  be  to  avoid  the  imposition  of 
controversial notions that have no basis in international 
human  rights  law  and  international  humanitarian  law, 
and  that  do  not  take  into  account  the  differing  social, 
cultural and value systems in different societies. 
Finally, the African Group encourages the Human 

its 
Rights  Council 
collaboration  with 
the  High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  in  line  with  the 
relevant resolutions of the General Assembly. 

observer of the European Union. 
Mr.  Mayr-Harting  (European  Union):  I  would 

first like to express our satisfaction at the great interest 
this 
the 
membership  of 
the  United  Nations,  and,  more 
specifically,  among  major  groups  in  the  General 
Assembly. 

I  have  the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
European Union (EU). The candidate countries Turkey, 
Croatia,  the  former Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia, 
Montenegro  and 
the 
Stabilisation  and  Association  Process  and  potential 
candidates  Albania,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  and 
Serbia,  as  well  as  Ukraine,  align  themselves  with  this 
statement. 

The  European  Union  thanks  the  President  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council,  Ambassador  Laura  Dupuy 
Lasserre,  for  presenting  the  Human  Rights  Council’s 
sixth annual report (A/66/53 and A/66/53/Add.1) to the 
General Assembly. We also appreciated this morning’s 
opportunity  to  hold  an  interactive  dialogue  with  the 
Council’s President. 
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
is  generating  among 
important  subject 
Iceland, 
the  countries  of 
11-57707 

5 

A/66/PV.49 


From  the  outset,  the  European  Union  has  been  a 
strong  supporter  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  as  the 
main  body  of 
the  United  Nations  human  rights 
machinery. The Union attaches great importance to the 
credibility  and  effectiveness  of  the  Council,  and  will 
continue to make every effort to ensure that it is able to 
fulfil its mandate responsibly and effectively and that it 
contributes  to  tangible  improvements  of  the  human 
rights  situation  on  the  ground.  Even  now  that  the 
review  process  is  over,  the  European  Union  believes 
that we must use every occasion to enable the Council 
to fulfil the commitments undertaken and to live up to 
the  expectations  that  the  world  at  large  has  of  it. The 
Human Rights Council has the responsibility to address 
situations  of  violations  of  human  rights,  including 
gross  and  systematic  violations  that  require  urgent 
action on the part of the international community. 

In  that  regard,  the  European  Union  is  very 
pleased  to  note  that  the  Council  has  played  a  leading 
role in taking up recent events in the Middle East and 
elsewhere.  In  particular,  the  action  taken  by  the 
Council  to  address  urgent  human  rights  situations  in 
Cote d’Ivoire, Libya, Syria, Belarus — a neighbour of 
the  European  Union  —  and  Yemen  is  exemplary  and 
shows  that  it  functioning  as  it  is  intended  to.  The 
European  Union  hopes  that  the  Council  will  continue 
to  follow  such  developments  and  take  action  where 
necessary. 

Serving  as  a  member  of  the  Council  entails 
important  responsibilities.  Resolution  60/251  provides 
that  members  elected  to  the  Council  shall  uphold  the 
highest  standards  in  the  promotion  and  protection  of 
human rights. As the EU has regularly underlined, most 
recently  in  the  context  of  the  review  process  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council,  that  principle  should  guide 
both the election of members to the Council  and their 
conduct  during  their  tenure.  In  that  respect,  it  is 
significant to recall that in February, the special session 
on  the  human  rights  situation  in  Libya  not  only 
expressed  strong  concern  about  the  human  rights 
situation  in  that  country,  but  also  recommended  the 
suspension  of  Libya’s  membership  in  the  Human 
Rights Council. The General Assembly did the same on 
1  March  in  an  unprecedented  move.  Against  that 
emblematic  case,  we  encourage  all  to  pay  more 
attention to the human rights records and commitments 
of States when electing members to the Human Rights 
Council, as well as throughout their membership. 
their  contribution 
to 
to 
to  providing 
their  valuable  contribution 

The  European  Union  also  attaches  the  greatest 
importance to special procedures, the eyes and ears of 
the  Council.  Given  the  deteriorating  situation  in  Iran, 
we  welcome  the  establishment,  during  the  period 
covered  by  the  report,  of  a  new  mandate  on  that 
country  and  the  extension  of  the  mandates  of  the 
Special Rapporteurs on the situation of human rights in 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Myanmar 
and Cambodia. The Council also renewed the mandates 
of  the  independent  experts  on  the  situation  of  human 
rights  in  the  Sudan,  Somalia  and  Haiti.  The  Council 
committed 
technical  assistance  and 
capacity-building to the Government of South Sudan to 
promote human rights, upon its request. 

Thematic  special  procedures  play  an  equally 
outstanding role, through their research, country visits 
and 
the  better 
understanding  of  the  content  of  specific  human  rights 
and 
the  enhancement  and 
realization of human rights standards. Among the many 
thematic  special  procedures,  let  me  highlight  the 
Special Rapporteur on freedom of religion or belief, a 
mandate established 25 years ago, as a follow-up to the 
1981  Declaration  on  the  Elimination  of  All  Forms  of 
Intolerance and of Discrimination Based on Religion or 
Belief. 

In  order  to  allow  special  procedures  to  perform 
their role, it is crucial that mandate holders be able to 
carry  out  their  assessments  in  an  independent  manner 
and  that  they  draw  the  Council’s  attention  to  human 
rights  issues  and  situations.  The  ability  of  mandate 
holders to undertake country visits and establish direct 
contact  with  the  relevant  governmental  structures,  as 
well  as  other  national  and  regional  stakeholders, 
especially  civil  society,  is  of  crucial  importance.  All 
States members of the European Union have extended 
a standing invitation to the special procedures. The EU 
calls  upon  all  United  Nations  members  to  do  likewise 
and to actively cooperate with them. 
Over the year, the Council has contributed to the 

further development and understanding of international 
norms and standards in the field of human rights. It has 
successfully  achieved  the  adoption  of  the  draft  third 
optional  protocol  to  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of 
the  Child  and  of  the  draft  United  Nations  declaration 
on  human  rights  education  and  training.  We  support 
action  on  those  issues  later  this  month  in  the  Third 
Committee,  and 
the  General 
Assembly before the end of the year. 
their  adoption  by 
6 

11-57707 
in 
the  area  of 



The  Council  is  also  mandated  to  monitor  the 
implementation  of  international  human  rights  law  and 
standards.  Only  through  objective  monitoring  and 
reporting can the Council identify the needs of victims 
and  possible  areas  for  capacity-building  and  technical 
assistance to States. The strengthening of international 
cooperation  and  the  development  of  capacity-building 
and  activities 
technical  measures 
remained a strong area for involvement in the Council, 
with  important  initiatives  adopted  in  support  of  the 
efforts  of  the  authorities  of  Cambodia,  Kyrgyzstan, 
Tunisia,  Guinea  and  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo. 

In situations that may give rise to grave violations 
of international human rights law or humanitarian law, 
the  Council  should  also  act  in  a  timely  and  effective 
manner.  The  creation  of  commissions  of  inquiry  and 
the  past  year  was 
fact-finding  missions  during 
therefore  an 
important  step 
in 
that  regard.  The 
European Union calls upon all States to fully cooperate 
with  the  missions  in  order  to  ensure  that  there  is  no 
impunity for such violations. I would also like to recall 
that, in the course of the review process of the Council, 
the  European  Union  made  a  number  of  additional 
suggestions aimed at enhancing the Council’s reaction 
to  situations  of  concern.  We  still  believe  that  there  is 
scope  to  improve  the  Council’s  capacity  to  have  an 
impact  on  the  ground,  particularly  in  responding  to 
human  rights  violations  in  real  time  and  in  helping  to 
prevent further abuses. 

The Universal Periodic Review complements the 
special  procedures  and  the  other  human  rights  tools 
and mechanisms that monitor and address human rights 
situations.  We  welcome  the  completion  of  the  first 
cycle  of  the  review  and  encourage  the  comprehensive 
and  swift  implementation  of  its  recommendations, 
including by drawing on international assistance to that 
effect. The European Union also encourages all States 
to fully cooperate with all relevant stakeholders in the 
preparation  for  the  review  process  by  promoting 
consultations  with  national  parliaments,  national 
human 
society 
representatives.  As  the  Universal  Periodic  Review 
process  moves  into  its  second  cycle,  the  focus  should 
henceforth  be  on  implementation  and  follow-up,  thus 
enhancing the credibility and impact of that mechanism 
of the Council. 
The Human Rights Council also has an important 

role to play as a forum for dialogue and the exchange 
institutions 
rights 
civil 
and 
A/66/PV.49
and 
thus 
First, 
rights 
issues, 
requested 
launched  a 
the  Council 
on  Business 
of  best  practices  and  experiences  on  a  wide  range  of 
thematic  human 
the 
advancement of the human rights agenda. I would just 
like to highlight the following important developments. 

the  High 
Commissioner  for  Human  Rights  to  commission  a 
study  to  document  discriminatory  laws  and  practices 
and acts of violence against individuals based on their 
sexual orientation and gender identity, in all regions of 
the  world,  and  decided  to  convene  a  panel  discussion 
on  the  basis  of  the  report.  We  look  forward  to  that 
important  event  and  expect  to  participate  actively  in 
the proceedings. 
Secondly,  the  Council  endorsed  the  Guiding 

Principles 
and  Human  Rights: 
Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and 
Remedy”  Framework  and 
follow-up 
mechanism  to  the  work  of  the  Special  Representative 
of the Secretary-General on the Issue of Human Rights 
and  Transnational  Corporations  and  other  Business 
Enterprises.  We  envisage  close  cooperation  with  the 
Working Group on Transnational Corporations, so as to 
contribute  to  the  effective  implementation  of  the 
Guiding Principles. 

During  the  reporting  period,  the  Council  also 
continued to mainstream human rights into the overall 
United Nations system. Moreover, the European Union 
highly values the role of civil society organizations and 
national  human  rights  institutions  for  their  important 
contribution  to  the  work  of  the  Council.  We  look 
forward  to  continuing  and  further  developing  their 
cooperation with the Council. 

In  conclusion,  let  me  reiterate  the  European 
Union’s strong commitment to contributing to the work 
of the Human Rights Council, to further strengthening 
its  role  in  helping  to  develop  international  human 
rights  law,  to  systematically  upholding  and  ensuring 
the implementation of existing international norms and 
standards,  and  to  promoting  the  observance  by  all 
States of all human rights and fundamental freedoms. 

I wish to thank the Acting President for ensuring 
the  good  functioning  of  this  meeting.  We  believe  that 
the  substance  of  the  issue  is  so  important  that  we 
decided to leave discussions on some open procedural 
questions for another day.  

Mr.  Sugavanam  (India):  My  delegation  would 
like  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights 
11-57707 

7 

its 
sixty-fifth 
A/66/PV.49 

Council  for  her  presentation  of  the  reports  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  (A/65/53  and  A/65/53/Add.1), 
under agenda item 64. 

The Human  Rights Council, established in 2006, 
has strengthened efforts to promote and protect human 
rights  globally.  We  are  encouraged  by  the  broad 
consensus that the Council has been able to achieve in 
addressing human rights issues in  a more constructive 
manner.  The  Council  has  been  a  considerable 
improvement over its predecessor, the Commission on 
Human  Rights. We  believe  that  this  has  been  possible 
in  large  measure  owing  to  the  Council’s  non-selective 
and  transparent  approach  to  promoting  and  protecting 
all human rights and fundamental freedoms for all. 

We  welcome  the  successful  completion  of  the 
review  process,  in  which  India  actively  participated. 
The review process has provided a road map for further 
streamlining 
the  Council’s  work  methods  and 
functioning,  as  reflected  in  the  outcome  document 
(resolution  65/281,  annex)  adopted  by  the  General 
Assembly  at 
session.  We  must 
consciously  ensure  that  the  Council  continues  to 
function 
in  a  non-selective,  non-politicized  and 
transparent manner. 

We consider the Universal Periodic Review to be 
a  positive,  universal,  transparent  mechanism  in  which 
all  stakeholders  directly  or  indirectly  participate,  and 
that  fact  strengthens  our  commitment  to  making  a 
genuine improvement in the human rights situation on 
the ground.  
We  also  acknowledge  the  important  role  played 

by  treaty  bodies  in  monitoring  the  implementation  of 
treaty  obligations  by 
the  State  parties.  The 
recommendations made and best practices identified by 
those bodies have strengthened domestic legal regimes 
and  assisted  Governments  in  capacity-building  in  the 
area of human rights.  

We welcome the practice of presenting the report 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council  directly  to  the  General 
Assembly. 

We  must  also  ensure  that  the  decisions  of  the 
General  Assembly  on  the  report  of  the  Council, 
especially  those  with  financial  implications,  can  be 
considered  quickly  by  the  Advisory  Committee  on 
Administrative and Budgetary Questions and the Fifth 
Committee, so as to minimize delays. 
(Cuba) 
to 
tackle 
the  double 
selectivity  and 
the  practice  of 
Ms.  Rodríguez  Camejo

We reiterate our firm commitment to continue to 
engage  constructively  with  all  Member  States  in 
making  the  Human  Rights  Council  a  strong,  effective 
and efficient body, capable of promoting and protecting 
the human rights and fundamental freedoms of all.  
in 
(spoke 

Spanish):  Five  years  have  passed  since  the  Human 
Rights  Council  began 
its  work,  and  we  greatly 
appreciate its efforts.  
The  Council  was  established  as  a  result  of  the 

standards, 
urgent  need 
confrontation  and  political  manipulation  of 
its 
predecessor,  the  Commission  on  Human  Rights.  We 
must  ensure  that  the  Council  does  not  repeat  the 
harmful practices that ultimately discredited the former 
Commission. Cuba has very clearly stated that it rejects 
the imposition of such practices.  
We  are  concerned  by  the  Council’s  tendency  to 

the 
perpetuate 
application  of  double  standards  in  its  consideration  of 
human  rights  situations,  when  its  work  should  be 
guided instead by cooperation and respectful dialogue.  

the 
establishment  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  as  a 
negotiator  at  each  stage  of  the  review  process,  which 
was  conducted  in  Geneva  and  New  York  between 
March 2010 and June 2011, with a view to fine-tuning 
and  consolidating  the  Council’s  work  in  its  first  five 
years of operations. 

review  process  was 
favourable for developing countries. It was possible to 
retain  the  core  elements  of  the  Council’s  institution-
building  package  and  the  provisions  of  resolution 
60/251 establishing the Council.  

The  Universal  Periodic  Review  is  the  only 
universal  mechanism  in  place  for  the  comprehensive 
analysis of the human  rights situation in all countries, 
and  it  is  what  mainly  distinguishes  the  Council  from 
the  former  Commission.  That  mechanism  has  proven 
its 
international 
cooperation in the field of human rights on the basis of 
constructive  dialogue  and  respect  for  the  principles  of 
universality, objectivity, impartiality and non-selectivity.  

The  Council  has  demonstrated  its  capacity  to 
respond to emergencies that require the attention of the 
international  community.  It  has  frequently  studied 
importance  as  a  foundation  for 
Cuba  played  a  very  active 
The  outcome  of 
the 
role 
in 
8 

11-57707 
right 
to 
that  are 
sometimes 
the  human 
food.  Those 


Israel’s  grave  violations  of  the  human  rights  of  the 
Palestinian people.  

The  convening  of  special  sessions  to  address 
thematic  issues  represents  a  milestone  in  the  work  of 
the  Council. The  first  of  those,  organized  by  Cuba  on 
behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  provided  room 
for  debate  and  suggestions  on  how  to  respond  to  the 
serious impact of the world food crisis on the exercise 
of 
initiatives 
demonstrate  the  Council’s  capacity  to  respond  in 
emergency  situations,  which  are  neither  confined 
within  national  borders  nor  derived  from  internal 
conflict or international disputes.  

With  regard  to  funding,  double  standards  have 
unfortunately also seeped into the work of the Council. 
Western countries have no objections when the Council 
addresses  issues  in  line  with  their  strategic  interests, 
including through country resolutions, commissions of 
inquiry  and  fact-finding  missions,  in  spite  of  the 
significant  costs 
involved. 
However,  they  block  the  draft  resolutions  introduced 
by  developing  countries,  citing  budget  constraints  and 
arguing  that  such  activities  should  be  undertaken 
within existing resources. The international community 
expects us to respond collectively and effectively to all 
crises that are having an impact on humankind and, in 
particular, on the countries of the South. 

When  the  world  is  facing  serious  challenges  — 
which have been unpredictable in their scale — such as 
those  arising  from  the  profound  economic,  financial, 
energy, environmental, food and social crises affecting 
the planet, the right to international solidarity becomes 
an  urgent  demand,  and  the  Council  must  uphold  that 
right.  
As  long  as  an  unjust  and  exclusive  international 

economic  and  political  order  remains  in  place,  the 
Council must continue to speak out for an international 
order that is democratic and equitable. While coercive 
unilateral  measures  are 
imposed  and  unrelenting 
blockades, like the one that Cuba has suffered from for 
over  50  years  now,  remain  in  place,  the  Council  must 
reject such practices and demand that an end be put to 
them.  We  also  reaffirm  the  need  to  ensure  that  the 
Council’s  special  procedures  uphold  the  principles  of 
objectivity  and  impartiality  and  in  general  terms 
respect the code of conduct that was adopted during the 
institution-building phase of the Council.  
A/66/PV.49
in 
for 
resolutions 
Cuba  has  worked 

the  promotion  and 
protection  of  all  human  rights  in  the  Council,  has 
submitted  numerous 
the  area  of 
economic,  social  and  cultural  rights  with  the  aim  of 
ensuring that those rights are placed on the same level 
as civil and political rights.  

Cuba  reiterates  its  desire  to  cooperate  with  the 
Council  and  with  the  human  rights  machinery  of  the 
United  Nations  system  and  its  institutions  providing 
universal  application  in  a  non-discriminatory  manner. 
We  confirm  our  desire  to  enter  into  dialogue  with  all 
States  based  on  mutual 
respect,  acceptance  of 
sovereign  equality  and  recognition  of  the  right  of  all 
peoples to select their political system and institutions. 
Mr. Wenaweser  (Liechtenstein):  I  would  like  to 

thank  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
Ambassador  Dupuy  Lasserre,  for  her  comprehensive 
report  to  the  General  Assembly  on  the  work  of  the 
Council 
(A/66/53  and  A/66/53/Add.1).  She  has 
presented  the  report  on  a  successful  year  for  the 
Council,  which  has,  moreover,  undergone  a  thorough 
and  comprehensive  review  both  of  its  work  and 
functioning and of its status in relation to the General 
Assembly. While ambitious ideas to improve the work 
of the Council did not culminate in agreement, several 
measures could be adopted to fine-tune its proceedings 
and institutional relationships.  

Given  the  strong  performance  of  the  Council 
during  the  period  covered  in  the  report,  we  are 
convinced that the modest results of the review process 
reflect  a  general  perception  of  the  Council  as  a  well-
functioning institution and the respect and authority it 
has  gained  over  the  years  through  its  work.  However, 
that  perception  should  not  have  prevented  us  from 
taking  more  decisive  action,  in  particular  in  the  areas 
of  funding  and 
the  Council’s 
recommendations.  

The  difficulties  that  the  Council  has  had  in 
funding  its  decisions  within  the  framework  of  special 
sessions  are  now  putting  regular  Council  activities  in 
jeopardy.  We  therefore  hope  that  the  Fifth  Committee 
will  grant  the  High  Commissioner  access  to  the 
unforeseen  and  extraordinary  expenses  mechanism  to 
fund the implementation of Council mandates aimed at 
addressing human rights emergencies. 

On the basis of the broad consultations during the 
review  of  the  Council,  which  I  had  the  honour  to 
facilitate together with my distinguished colleague and 
the  processing  of 
11-57707 

9 
frequent 
an 

exchanges 
increasingly 
the 
and 
to  close  coordination  between 
A/66/PV.49 

friend Ambassador Loulichki of Morocco, we expected 
the  time  to  be  ripe  to  send  a  consensual  message  of 
support to the Council from this body. Still, the review 
has  resulted  in  the  broadest  possible  support  for  the 
Council,  short  of  consensus.  The  exceptional  element 
to  point  out  in  that  exercise  is  the  constructive 
cooperation between Geneva and New York throughout 
the  entire  process.  In  an  often  sensitive  political 
the 
environment, 
commitment 
the 
Presidents  of  the  Council  and  the  General  Assembly 
have set the stage for the smooth execution of our task. 
We  see  in  that  effort  a  model  of  close  cooperation 
between  Geneva  and  New  York  and  encourage  its 
continuation to the mutual benefit of both bodies. 
The  enhanced  authority  of  the  Council  is  a 

consequence  of 
comprehensive 
implementation  of  its  mandate  during  the  last  year,  in 
particular  in  the  areas  of  urgent  human  rights  crises, 
thematic human rights issues, standard setting  and the 
Universal  Periodic  Review  (UPR).  Led  by  continued 
efforts  on  the  part  of  the  High  Commissioner  to  raise 
awareness  on  human 
in  a 
non-selective  and  fact-based  manner,  the  Council 
reacted swiftly and adequately to address the situations 
in  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Libya  and  Syria.  Unfortunately, 
equally  urgent  action  by  the  Council  was  not  taken  in 
the cases of Bahrain, Yemen and Sri Lanka, where such 
action  would  have  been  justified.  We  welcome  the 
appointment  of  a  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  human 
rights  situation  in  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  as  an 
important  step  towards  accountability  and  call  for  full 
cooperation with the mandate in that regard.  

We  particularly  welcome  the  landmark  decision 
of  the  Council  to  mandate  a  study  into  discrimination 
and human rights violations experienced by persons on 
the basis of their sexual orientation or gender identity. 
We sincerely hope that that report will be the basis for 
a  more  pragmatic  and  constructive  dialogue  on  the 
promotion  and  protection  of  all  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms  for  those  persons  who  find 
themselves in a particularly vulnerable position owing 
to their sexual orientation or gender identity. 
In  the  field  of  standard-setting,  we  particularly 

welcome  the  consensual  adoption  of  the  Optional 
Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of the Child. 
The Protocol fills an important gap in the treaty-based 
human rights protection and accountability framework. 
In  addition,  we  welcome  the  endorsement  by  the 
rights  emergencies 
to 
tool 
Finally,  we  commend 
the  Council  for 
the  first  cycle  of 
Council  of  the  Guiding  Principles  on  Business  and 
Human  Rights.  They  too  will  serve  as  an  important 
guidance 
in  an  area  where  protection  had 
previously been limited.  
the 

successful  completion  of 
the 
Universal Periodic Review. The UPR has quickly given 
rise 
the  most  significant  and  comprehensive 
assessment of the global human rights landscape. It has 
brought  a  large  number  of  recommendations  to  all 
States  under  review,  on  which  it  will  be  crucial  to 
ensure follow-up. Meaningful follow-up can be assured 
only  if  we  as  States  are  also  ready  to  engage  on 
recommendations that we have previously rejected. On 
that basis, a qualified assessment of the progress made 
during the second cycle  will be possible and  also will 
testify  to  the  usefulness  of  the  UPR  as  an  instrument 
for the promotion and protection of human rights.  

We  wish  President  Dupuy  Lasserre  a  good  start 
on this exercise next June. She will be the only Council 
President  who  will  have  the  opportunity  to  present  an 
annual  report  to  the  General  Assembly  twice.  We 
already look forward to welcoming her back here next 
year. 
Mr.  Hassan  Ahmed  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

First  of  all,  I  would  like  to  thank  Ms.  Laura  Dupuy 
Lasserre,  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  for 
her detailed presentation to the General Assembly. We 
would  like  to  congratulate  her  on  her  wise  leadership 
of the Council and wish her every success in her task.  

Five  years  ago,  the  Human  Rights  Council  was 
established,  which  was  an  important  milestone  in  the 
work  of  the  General  Assembly  and  its  subsidiary 
bodies.  The  Council  has  to  deal  with  human  rights, 
with all countries on an equal footing, through what is 
known  as  the  Universal  Periodic  Review  mechanism, 
in  which  all  countries  without  exception  must 
participate.  However,  thanks  to  resolution  60/251, 
there is a mechanism of special procedures, which can 
be  extremely  helpful  in  eliminating  politicization, 
partiality  and  selectivity.  The  Human  Rights  Council 
has  further  adopted  resolutions  5/2  in  2007  and  11/11 
in June 2009 on such special procedures. 

I  would  like  to  confirm  the  Sudan’s  cooperation 
with the Human Rights Council. I am pleased to report 
that the Sudan has submitted, in Geneva, its first report 
under  the  Universal  Periodic  Review  mechanism. 
Many  people  were  involved  in  preparing  the  report, 
10 

11-57707 
recent 
parliamentary 
report  described 
the 


including  the  Government,  various  organizations  and 
civil society. In addition to describing the human rights 
the  democratic 
situation, 
the 
transformation, 
and 
presidential  elections  in  the  Sudan  and  the  signing  of 
the  Doha  Document  for  Peace  in  Darfur,  which  has 
resulted in reduced violence and an improvement of the 
human  rights  situation  in  Darfur.  The  report  also 
described ways in which the Sudan has complied with 
all of its peace obligations, as well as its acceptance of 
the outcome of the referendum on South Sudan.  

In  addition  to  those  positive  developments,  the 
Sudan has also become party to the Convention on the 
Rights  of  the  Child  and  its  Optional  Protocol  and  has 
recently  confirmed  its  readiness  to  comply  with  and 
implement  the  recommendations  made  to  us  in  the 
Review.  

My country welcomes the adoption by the Human 
Rights Council, at its most recent session in September, 
of resolution 18/16 under agenda item 10, which, in its 
paragraph  11,  extended,  with  a  special  mandate,  the 
term  of  the  independent  expert  on  the  situation  of 
human  rights  in  the  Sudan. The  decision  taken  by  the 
Human  Rights  Council  has  confirmed  that  there  has 
been an improvement and positive developments in the 
human  rights  situation  in  the  Sudan.  We  welcome  the 
Council’s  decision  on  the  mandate  of  the  independent 
expert  and  will  endeavour  to  establish  an  independent 
office  on  human  rights  in  the  Sudan.  The  legislature 
has already approved that request and the office will be 
established shortly. 

Lastly,  my  country  wishes  for  the  necessary 
financial resources to be made available to the Council, 
in  order  for  the  Secretariat  to  carry  out  its  work,  in 
particular on priority issues involving human rights in 
the economic, social and cultural sectors. Those should 
be given consideration equal to that given to civil and 
political rights. 
Ms.  AlGharabally  (Kuwait)  (spoke  in  Arabic): 

Today, 
is  considering  an 
important agenda item. I therefore I wish to thank the 
Human  Rights  Council  for  the  report  contained  in 
document  A/66/53,  that  summarizes  the  work  of  the 
international  community  to  promote  human  rights  and 
its  continued  efforts  to  strengthen  and  protect  the 
fundamental principles of human rights.  
My  delegation  is  pleased  to  express  its  gratitude 

to the Member States of the General Assembly for their 
the  General  Assembly 
A/66/PV.49
in 
through 
combating 
confidence  in  electing  Kuwait  as  a  member  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  for  the  period  2011-2013  and 
affirming, 
that  membership,  Kuwait’s 
commitment to making its most sincere efforts towards 
the  promotion  and  protection  of  the  principles  of 
human rights, while affirming the important role of the 
Human  Rights  Council 
racism, 
intolerance  and  discrimination  and  appreciating  the 
concrete efforts of Member States in this regard.  

The  advancement  and  progress  of  peoples  and 
nations  is  measured  by  their  commitment  to,  and 
respect  for,  human  rights.  The  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  urges  the  promotion  of  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms  and  calls  upon  all  of  us  to  join 
our  efforts  to  ensure  the  success  of  that  endeavour. 
Nothing  should  prevent  any  individual  —  no  matter 
how  diverse  human  beings  may  be  in  terms  of  race, 
religion or belief — from enjoying the full spectrum of 
fundamental rights. 

My delegation has studied with great interest the 
report under this item. I would like to affirm Kuwait’s 
commitment  to  human  rights  standards.  The  Kuwaiti 
Constitution  of  1962  confirms  the  rules,  agreements 
and  norms  of  human 
rights.  My  country  has 
consecrated those rights, including the right to life and 
the  right  to  freedom  of  opinion  and  expression. 
Article 7  of  the  Constitution  affirms  that  freedom, 
justice and equality constitute the pillars of society and 
that cooperation and mutual understanding ensure close 
bonds  among  citizens.  Article  29  of  the  Constitution 
provides  for  all  persons  to  enjoy  equal  human  dignity 
and  equality  before  the  law  in  terms  of  duties  and 
rights,  without  discrimination  based  on  gender, 
ethnicity,  language  or  religion.  Kuwait  has  also  given 
multiple  rights 
legal 
personhood and full political rights. Women have also 
assumed many leadership positions in the State through 
direct election.  

Also,  women  account  for  8  per  cent  of  the  total 
number  of  members  of  the  Kuwaiti  Parliamentary 
Council.  My  country  has  also  sought  to  provide 
welfare  for  children,  based  on 
its  constitutional 
commitments  and  on  the  instruments  and  treatises  to 
which  it  is  party.  Kuwait  believes  in  the  role  of  civil 
society  organizations  and  freedom  of  opinion  and  of 
the press. It has promulgated a number of relevant laws 
including  3/2006  and  61/2007,  which  have  organized 
the work of the media in all its forms. That has ensured 
an  atmosphere  of  greater  openness,  transparency  and 
to  women,  who  enjoy  full 
11-57707 

11 
respect 
for  human 
thus  promote 
A/66/PV.49 

greater  democracy.  Article  31  of 
the  Kuwaiti 
Constitution  protects  all  human  beings  from  torture, 
oppression and abuse. Such an atmosphere of freedom 
aims to create a healthy environment  and promote the 
exchange  of  views,  ideas  and  dialogue.  It  would  also 
guarantee  increased  popular  participation  in  decision-
making  in  Kuwait,  which  would  provide  greater 
stability  and  prosperity,  and 
the 
advancement of my country. 

In affirming the established principles of Kuwaiti 
foreign policy — the promotion of international peace 
and  security,  the  renunciation  of  violence  and  respect 
of  human  rights  —  we  provide  a  high  level  of 
humanitarian  assistance  through  governmental  and 
non-governmental  organizations  to  various  people  in 
order to promote human rights and human dignity.  

On  the  other  hand,  Kuwait  has  increased  its 
established voluntary contributions to the Office of the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights 
to  support  its  efforts  and  mandated  functions.  In  that 
regard,  in  discussing  human  rights  and  the  need  to 
strengthen 
rights,  we  must 
vigorously denounce the oppressive Israeli policies and 
practices  that  continue  to  violate  the  fundamental 
human  rights  of  the  defenceless  Palestinian  people  in 
the occupied territories.  

We also call upon the international community to 
assume its responsibility in order to compel Israel, the 
occupying  Power, 
to  comply  with  resolutions  of 
international  legitimacy  and  renounce  its  expansionist 
and  aggressive  policies;  and  to  compel  it  to  respect 
international  humanitarian  law  and  the  principles  of 
human rights. 

Kuwait  is  fully  convinced  of  the  need  to  respect 
human rights and will spare no effort to defend them. It 
affirms  its  conviction  through  its  participation  in  all 
international  forums  and United Nations organizations 
and governmental and non-governmental organizations 
concerned  with  questions  of  human  rights,  since 
cooperation  in  that  regard  is  the  optimum  means  to 
advance peoples and nations. 
Ms.  Hernando  (Philippines):  At  the  outset,  I 

would  like  to  thank  the  President  for  this  opportunity 
to  speak  on  the  report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
(A/66/53 and Add.1). This agenda item is of particular 
importance  to  the  Philippines  as  a  founding  and 
re-elected  member  of  the  Council.  We  thank  the 
President  of  the  Council,  Ambassador  Laura  Dupuy 

the  horrors  of  war, 
Lasserre,  for  presenting  the  Council’s  sixth  annual 
report to the Assembly. 

In 1948, the United Nations elaborated a common 
standard of achievement for all peoples of all nations, 
based  on  the  core  principles  of  universality,  equality, 
fairness  and  non-discrimination.  Crafted  in  a  world 
ravaged  by 
the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights  articulates  our  highest 
aspirations  for  freedom  from  fear  and  want  and  our 
commitment  to  protecting  the  sanctity  and  dignity  of 
every human life, regardless of race or creed. 

More  than  60  years  after  the  adoption  of  the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights,  our  quest  to 
attain  our  highest  aspirations  continues.  Peace  and 
prosperity remain elusive. There are widening poverty 
gaps, food shortages, climate change, economic crises, 
armed  conflicts,  rising  unemployment,  popular  unrest 
and  the  other  pressing  challenges  confronting  our 
world today. Many children, women and men still live 
in  dire  need  of  the  fulfilment  of  their  entitlement  to  a 
life of dignity, freedom and equal opportunity.  

But  despite  the  elusiveness  of  our  highest  goals 
and aspirations, we remain hopeful. The establishment 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  aimed  at  strengthening 
the  United  Nations  human  rights  machinery  to  ensure 
the effective enjoyment by all of every human right — 
civil, political, economic, social and cultural, including 
the  right  to  development  —  is  but  one  of  the 
manifestations of our continuing faith in and enduring 
commitment  to  the  values  and  principles  of  the 
Universal Declaration. 

The formal process of review of the status of the 
Council,  as  well  as  of  its  work  and  functioning  in 
Geneva, which culminated in the adoption of Assembly 
resolution  65/281 
in  June,  provided  us  with  an 
opportunity  to  take  stock  of  the  gains  made  by  this 
relatively  young  institution.  The  Council  has  made 
reasonable progress in fulfilling its mandate, as set out 
in  Assembly  resolution  60/251.  Its  workload  has 
increased  markedly  since 
the 
growing  number  of  cross-regional  initiatives  in  the 
Council demonstrates delegations’ positive engagement 
and cooperation in working towards more practical and 
forward-looking  approaches  to  addressing  pressing 
economic, social, cultural or humanitarian concerns. 

The  Universal  Periodic  Review  (UPR),  with  its 
intergovernmental and peer-review nature, remains the 
Council’s most innovative and effective mechanism for 
inception,  and 
its 
12 

11-57707 
implement  human 
rights  and 
is  a  need,  however, 
and  protecting  human 


ensuring that States fulfil their responsibility to respect 
fundamental 
and 
freedoms.  There 
to  further 
strengthen  the  UPR  if  we  are  to  bring  to  fruition  our 
vision  of  an  ever-responsive  mechanism  for 
the 
improvement  of  the  human  rights  situation  in  all 
countries  and  for  addressing  human  rights  violations 
wherever they occur. 

The  Philippines  believes  that  the  Council  should 
be  a  partner  with  all  States  and  stakeholders  in  the 
promotion  and  protection  of  all  human  rights,  with  a 
strong  focus  on  capacity-building  and  international 
cooperation. It must continue to work in a constructive 
manner, 
fostering  dialogue  and  cooperation  and 
engaging in meaningful interaction with States and all 
stakeholders at national and international levels.  
The special procedures play an important role in 

promoting 
rights.  The 
independence of mandate holders is vital to their work, 
but 
important 
it  must  always  be  balanced  by 
considerations  such  as  professionalism, 
integrity, 
efficiency and effectiveness. 
As  a  founding  and  re-elected  member  of  the 

Council,  the  Philippines  endeavours  to  contribute 
constructively to the efficient and effective work of the 
Council and to continue to focus on the importance of 
achieving  national,  regional  and  international  human 
rights  goals,  standards  and  strategies.  It  is  the  main 
sponsor  of  initiatives  in  the  Council  on  human  rights 
and  extreme  poverty  and  on  combating  trafficking  in 
persons, especially women and children. It traditionally 
sponsors  initiatives  on  the  protection  of  the  human 
rights  of  vulnerable  groups  such  as  migrants,  women, 
indigenous peoples and persons with disabilities and is 
a  member  of  the  cross-regional  Platform  for  Human 
Rights  Education  and  Training,  composed  of  Costa 
Rica,  Italy,  Morocco,  Philippines,  Senegal,  Slovenia 
and Switzerland. 

The  Philippines  is  pleased  to  note  that  at  its 
sixteenth  session  the  Council  adopted  the  United 
Nations  Declaration  on  Human  Rights  Education  and 
the  first  reference 
Training.  The  Declaration 
is 
document  entirely  created  by 
the  Human  Rights 
Council  since  its  establishment  in  2006.  It  provides  a 
clear and precise definition of human rights education 
and training, their scope and principles, and the various 
means  for  ensuring  their  effective  implementation. At 
its eighteenth session, the Council also adopted another 
A/66/PV.49
important  resolution,  initiated  by  the  Philippines  and 
Bangladesh, concerning the adverse impacts of climate 
change on the full enjoyment of human rights. 

Finally,  2011  marks  the  twenty-fifth  anniversary 
of the Declaration on the Right to Development, which 
unequivocally  established  development  as  a  right  and 
put  people  at  the  centre  of  the  development  process. 
Taking  into  account  the  importance  of  the  right  to 
development  to  all  human  rights,  the  Philippines 
continues  to  advocate  for,  and  support  discussions  on, 
the  right  to  development  with  a  view  to  ensuring  its 
realization, particularly in the Human Rights Council.  

My delegation, sensitive to current and emerging 
human  rights  challenges  and  aware  that  the  effective 
realization  of  human  rights  is  vital  to  alleviating 
poverty  and  creating  a  better  quality  of  life  for  all, 
reaffirms its unwavering commitment to the protection 
and promotion of human rights. 
Mr. Diallo (Senegal)  (spoke in French): I would 

like to commend the remarkable work accomplished by 
the Human Rights Council during the past year and to 
express  my  delegation’s  appreciation  to  the  Council’s 
President,  Her  Excellency  Ambassador  Laura  Dupuy 
Lasserre,  Uruguay’s  Permanent  Representative 
in 
Geneva,  for  the  quality  of  her  report.  The  conduct  of 
three extraordinary sessions and the significant number 
of  resolutions  and  decisions  adopted  this  year  reflect 
her  dynamism  and  are  eloquent  proof  of  the  progress 
the Council has made. 

In that regard, I should add that we welcome the 
fact that almost all Member States have now submitted 
to  the  Universal  Periodic  Review,  which,  as  the 
Secretary-General has said, opens a new chapter in the 
promotion  of  human  rights  and  underscores 
its 
universality. The appreciable participation by States in 
this  mechanism,  only  a  few  months  before  the  end  of 
its  first  cycle,  shows  clearly  that  it  is  possible  to 
approach the issue of human rights impartially and free 
of  any  form  of  politicization  by  establishing  an 
objective,  constructive  and 
transparent  dialogue. 
However, 
to  make  an 
effective  contribution  to  promoting  and  protecting 
human 
its 
recommendations  are  implemented.  It  is  our  common 
responsibility to work for the success of this enterprise. 

the  Human  Rights  Council  has 
achieved since its founding are testament, if any were 
still  needed,  that  this  body  is  capable  of  producing 
rights  can  be  gauged  only  after 
the  mechanism’s  capacity 
The  results 
11-57707 

13 
the 
In  deciding 
to  maintain 

though 
the  adoption, 
to  compromise  and 
A/66/PV.49 

responses  adequate  to  the  situations  requiring  its 
attention.  However,  far  from  letting  us  adopt  a  self-
satisfied  attitude,  the  progress  that  has  brought  about 
both  hopes  and  expectations  should  rather  encourage 
us  to  intensify  our  efforts  to  consolidate  the  Council 
and improve its functioning. 

That is the direction we should follow in the work 
we  undertook  with 
last  June,  of 
resolution  65/281  and  its  annex,  which  is  entitled 
“Outcome of the review of the work and functioning of 
the  Human  Rights  Council”.  Even 
that 
resolution  was  not  completely  satisfying  for  many 
delegations,  the  result  we  attained  —  thanks  to  the 
willingness 
flexibility 
prevailing in our discussions — should be commended.  

the  Human  Rights 
Council’s  status  as  a  subsidiary  body  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  to  align  its  annual  cycle  with  the 
calendar year, we in fact contributed to improving the 
functioning  of  the  Council.  In  that  same  spirit,  we 
requested  a  study  of  means  to  provide  adequate 
funding  for  unforeseen  and  extraordinary  expenses 
arising  from  resolutions  and  decisions  adopted  by  the 
Council.  Clearly,  granting  the  Human  Rights  Council 
adequate financing would increase its efficacy. 

In  that  same  vein,  I  commend  Human  Rights 
Council  decision  17/118,  of  17  June  2011,  which 
creates the Office of the President of the Human Rights 
Council. That should allow an institutional memory in 
the Council and improve its visibility. We hope that in 
the  establishment  of  that  important  new  entity,  the 
principle of equitable geographic representation will be 
taken into account in the staff selection process. 

In  the  course  of  our  consideration  of  the  draft 
budget  for  the  2012-2013  biennium  in  the  Fifth 
Committee  a  few  days  ago,  we  commended  the 
Secretary-General  for  recommending  additional  funds 
for  institutional  strengthening  of  the  human  rights 
agenda of the Organization. 

In  the  current  period  of  crisis,  when  doubt  and 
uncertainty dampen even the most optimistic souls, the 
immeasurable  contribution  of 
the  Human  Rights 
Council  to  safeguarding  such  fundamental  values  as 
tolerance,  intercultural  dialogue  and  responsible  free 
expression  is  a  source  of  hope  and  comfort.  In  that 
light,  the  Council  should  redouble  its  efforts  in 
promoting  human 
rights  education,  which  could 
contribute  greatly  to  realizing  the  goal  of  ridding  the 
world of prejudice and fear of the other.  

Even  as  it  continues  in  that  vein,  the  Human 
Rights  Council  should  also  focus  more  on  the  many 
facets  of  the  right  to  development.  We  are  convinced 
that  respect  for  all  human  rights,  without  distinction, 
including  the  right  to  development,  is  one  of  the 
principle  measures  of  peace  and  stability  at  both  the 
national and international levels. 

In  conclusion,  I  want  to  encourage  all  Member 
States  to  commit  to  making  the  second  cycle  of  the 
universal periodic review a genuine success. 
Mr.  De  Séllos  (Brazil):  Brazil  welcomes  the 

report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  to  the  General 
Assembly (A/66/53 and A/66/53/Add.1). We also thank 
the President of the Council, Ambassador Laura Dupuy 
Lasserre,  for  her  presentation  of  the  activities  of  the 
Council  in  the  past  year.  The  report  offers  a  vivid 
description  of  the  intense  work  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council.  The  positive  outcomes  achieved  in  both 
regular and special sessions show that the Council is an 
essential  mechanism  to  ensure  the  promotion  and 
protection  of  all  human  rights  and  of  fundamental 
freedoms for all. 

The  fact  that  most  of  the  outcomes  of  the 
Council’s work were adopted by consensus is still more 
evidence  that,  in  the  human  rights  agenda,  what  we 
share still outweighs what divides us. Brazil maintains 
that  increased  dialogue  and  mutual  understanding  are 
fundamental to achieving an even greater convergence, 
which can only lead to a more effective Human Rights 
Council. 

Having  recently  completed  our  second  mandate 
as a member State of the Council, Brazil has constantly 
worked  with  a  view  to  achieving  outcomes  that  are 
both meaningful and acceptable to all. In the reporting 
period,  my  Government  presented  draft  resolutions  on 
the  subjects  of  the  protection  of  human  rights  in  the 
context of HIV and AIDS, on the right of everyone to 
the  enjoyment  of  the  highest  attainable  standard  of 
physical  and  mental  health 
the  context  of 
development  and  access  to  medicines,  and  on  the 
incompatibility  of  democracy  and  racism,  the  latter  in 
conjunction  with 
the  Southern 
Common Market and its associated States. All of them 
were  adopted  without  a  vote,  and  usually  with 
numerous sponsors. 
the  members  of 
in 
14 

11-57707 
Periodic  Review  mechanism, 



We  note  with  appreciation  the  conclusion  of  the 
first  cycle  of  the  Universal  Periodic  Review  (UPR). 
The fact that all States Members of the United Nations 
have undergone the review exercise has highlighted the 
fact  that  all  of  us,  independent  of  our  level  of 
development,  face  challenges  in  ensuring  the  full 
enjoyment  of  all  human  rights  for  our  peoples.  The 
high  level  of  cooperation  received  by  the  mechanism 
may have exceeded the most optimistic forecasts. 
My  country  has  engaged  constructively  with  the 

Universal 
thus 
contributing  to  its  undeniable  success. With  a  view  to 
avoiding selectivity and politicization, Brazil has made 
recommendations  to  all  countries  reviewed  in  the 
reporting period. We will also engage constructively in 
our own upcoming review, due next May, in the second 
cycle of the UPR. 

For  all  those  reasons,  Brazil’s  assessment  is  that 
the Human Rights Council is overall a success story. At 
the same time, the Council has the potential to become 
an  even  more  effective  instrument  for  the  promotion 
and  protection  of  all  human  rights.  The  recently 
concluded 
important 
contributions  to  the  work  and  functioning  of  the 
Council, and we believe it is possible to continue that 
improvement during its day-to-day work. 

improvements,  Brazil 
attaches  great  importance  to  increasing  the  Council’s 
ability to provide cooperation and technical assistance. 
We  recall,  in  that  regard,  the  joint  intervention  by 
Brazil and 97 other countries on the topic of technical 
assistance  and  capacity-building. We  must  do  more  in 
order  to  fully  realize  the  mandate  of  the  Council  for 
fostering  cooperation, 
the 
promotion and protection of human rights in the world. 
Mr.  Mitsialis  (Greece):  My  delegation  fully 

subscribes  to  the  statement  made  earlier  by  the 
observer  of  the  European  Union.  Allow  me  to  make 
some additional comments in my national capacity. 

In  our  globalized  world,  human  rights  have 
become  a  vital  factor  in  the  promotion  of  peace, 
justice, security and development. They offer a unique 
means of protection of individuals against harm. They 
constitute  a  sine  qua  non  ingredient  of  international 
and  domestic  political  discourse  and  constitute  the 
cornerstone  for  building  a  fair,  peaceful,  all-inclusive 
civil  society.  It  is  therefore  imperative  that  human 
review  has  already  made 
thus  contributing 
the  necessary 
Among 
to 
A/66/PV.49
to 
the 
the  Member  States’  adherence 
rights be respected by all States Members of the United 
Nations. 

I wish to extend our appreciation to the President 
of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  Ms.  Laura  Dupuy 
Lasserre,  for  presenting  the  Human  Rights  Council’s 
sixth  annual  report  (A/66/53  and  Add.1).  The  report 
underlines 
the 
principles  of  cooperation  and  mutual  respect.  Among 
the  resolutions  adopted  by  the  Council,  we  consider 
those on violence against women, trafficking of women 
and  children,  and 
incompatibility  between 
democracy and racism to be the most notable.  

Developments  and  changes  in  the  countries  of 
North Africa and the Middle East dominated this year’s 
sessions  of 
the  Human  Rights  Council.  Those 
developments produced the constantly pressing need to 
guarantee the protection of the fundamental rights and 
freedoms of all the peoples in our neighbouring region. 
In addition, the adverse impact of the greatly prolonged 
global financial crisis and the food crisis in the Horn of 
Africa  have  put  considerable  pressure  on  us  when  it 
comes  to  the  protection  of  the  economic,  social,  civil 
and political rights of a great number of people. 

Among  the  positive  developments  of  this  year’s 
sessions  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  we  noted  the 
review  of  the  Council,  the  consensual  adoption  of 
many  country-specific  resolutions  and  the  successful 
completion of the first cycle of the Universal Periodic 
Review (UPR) process with the adoption of all national 
reports.  We  now  have  before  us  the  first  universal 
human  rights  map.  Special  procedures  mandates  were 
extended  and  new  ones  were  created  as  the  Council 
attended to matters not previously covered.  

At  the  same  time,  we  should  aim  for  better 
streamlining  of  various  Council  initiatives,  bearing  in 
mind  the  limited  resources  available. As  collaboration 
existing  mandate  holders  has  become 
among 
commonplace, 
reporting 
requirements could be avoided in order achieve greater 
effectiveness.  

In  July,  we  welcomed  the  Republic  of  South 
Sudan  as  the  193rd  State  Member  of  the  United 
Nations  and  expressed  our  appreciation 
its 
immediate engagement with the Human Rights Council 
in  order  to  strengthen  national  mechanisms  for  the 
promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms.  We  expect  that  serious  efforts 
will  be  undertaken  from  all  sides  to  prevent  further 
additional 
assigning 
for 
11-57707 

15 
against 
and 
supports 
standards 
for 
the 
racism,  xenophobia 
the  ongoing  process 
A/66/PV.49 

violence. We are ready to assist the new Government in 
the promotion of human rights. 

Greece  welcomed  the  transition  in  Libya.  It 
strongly 
towards 
democracy and stands  ready to offer any assistance in 
that direction.  
Greece  eagerly  supports  the  work  of  the  Human 

Rights Council. Despite the current difficult economic 
juncture,  my  Government  spears  no  efforts 
in 
promoting  human  rights  in  all  fields  of  action.  In  the 
fight 
related 
intolerance,  a  new  law  will  soon  be  submitted  for 
adoption  by  Parliament  that  will  further  criminalize 
racist  acts.  Furthermore,  we  have  strengthened  our 
legislative framework in favour of gender equality and 
counselling  for  victims  of  gender-based  violence, 
trafficking  of  women  and  children,  and  for 
the 
protection of children’s rights based on the principle of 
the best interests of the child. 
We  are  proud  of  the  steps  taken  to  comply  with 

international 
elimination  of 
trafficking  through  the  enactment  of  strict  legislation 
for  prosecuting  perpetrators  and  protecting  victims  in 
accordance  with  victim-centred  legislation,  as  well  as 
to  improve  prevention  through  focused  activities  and 
national  coordination.  In  addition,  we  are  adopting 
measures  to  broaden  the  safeguarding  of  the  rights  of 
persons  with  disabilities.  Their  equal  participation  in 
economic, social and political life remains at the top of 
our agenda. 
The  European  Union  perceives  human  rights  as 

universal,  indivisible  and  interdependent.  All  of  its 
member States share the same core values in terms of 
respect  for,  and  promotion  and  protection  of,  human 
rights, democracy and the rule of law, not only within 
European  Union  borders  but  also  beyond  them.  As  a 
member  of  the  European  Union  family  and  a  party  to 
instruments, 
all  major 
Greece  has  a 
the 
protection  of  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms 
and has long been a staunch supporter of all efforts to 
promote  human  rights  values  and  principles  at  all 
levels  and 
the  world.  We 
acknowledge  the  pivotal  role  that  the  United  Nations 
has  played 
international 
community’s  ability  to  promote  respect  for  all  human 
rights. Therefore, since its inception, we have fervently 
supported an efficient Human Rights Council. 
international  human  rights 
long-standing  commitment 
in  all  countries 
in 
in 
strengthening 
the 


Greece’s commitment to upholding human rights 
is the cornerstone of our candidature for election to the 
Human Rights Council for the upcoming period 2013-
2015. In this respect, we presented our national report 
to  the  Universal  Periodic  Review  mechanism  in  May 
and  accepted  the  vast  majority  of  recommendations 
made  by  Member  States.  We  thus  intend  to  ensure  an 
effective  follow-up  to  all  UPR  recommendations.  The 
overall  positive  assessment  of  Greece’s  human  rights 
record  under  the  Universal  Periodic  Review  confirms 
our readiness to actively participate in the work of the 
Council,  contribute  to  the  full  implementation  of  its 
mandate  and  enhance  its  credibility  and  efficiency 
through 
improved  cross-regional  cooperation  and 
greater  efforts  to  achieve  wider  agreement  on  its 
decisions. 

For its part, the Greek Government has extended 
and  honoured  standing  invitations  to  all  the  Human 
Rights  Council  special  procedures.  We  firmly  believe 
that  only  through  objective  monitoring  and  reporting 
can the Council identify the areas in need of capacity-
building  and  technical  assistance,  thus  further  helping 
countries  to  better  address  human  rights  violations, 
wherever they occur. 

In the context of our candidature for a seat in the 
Human  Rights  Council,  Greece  is  in  the  process  of 
ratifying several international human rights instruments 
and  intends  to  further  promote  the  engagement  of 
Greek 
non-governmental 
organizations  in  the  Council’s  work.  In  addition,  we 
intend to take a number of supplementary steps and to 
initiate  actions  in  the  fields  of  migration  management 
and asylum procedures, given the challenges that arise 
from  the  unprecedented  flow  of  irregular  migrants 
entering Greece as a result of its geographical location. 

The  full  enjoyment  of  human  rights  remains  the 
cornerstone  of  any  democratic  edifice  and  constitutes 
the  epitome  of  the  human  condition.  In  the  quest  for 
this  ideal,  the  Human  Rights  Council  meticulously 
fulfils the role assigned to it. Greece, conscious of the 
significance of its mission, will continue to be actively 
engaged in that process. 
Mr.  Jerandi  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  French):  I  take 

this opportunity to welcome with great satisfaction the 
new dynamic of cooperation that since the 14 January 
revolution  has  taken  root  between  the  United  Nations 
human  rights  machinery  and  Tunisia.  Tunisia  is  more 
committed  than  ever  to  abiding  by  its  international 
international 
and 
to 
16 

11-57707 
has  withdrawn 
Furthermore,  Tunisia 


commitments  in  the  field  of  human  rights  and  to 
ensuring that human rights become universal values in 
all dimensions and that they become a tangible reality 
in the daily life of Tunisia. 

This new dynamic of cooperation is illustrated by 
Tunisia’s  ratification,  last  June,  of  four  international 
human rights instruments that are of great significance, 
namely, the Rome Statute, the Optional Protocol to the 
International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political  Rights, 
the  Convention  against  Torture  and  Other  Cruel, 
Inhuman  or  Degrading  Treatment  or  Punishment,  and 
the  International  Convention  for  the  Protection  of All 
Persons 
from  Enforced  Disappearance.  These 
commitments reflect my country’s strong resolve to put 
in place a comprehensive human rights mechanism that 
will break once and for all with the past and establish 
solid  assurances  against  flagrant  violations  of  human 
rights.  

its 
reservations  to  the  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of 
All  Forms  of  Discrimination  against  Women,  so  as  to 
establish  the  rightful  place  of  women  in  Tunisian 
society and further reinforce gender equality.  

In the same spirit, following its open invitation to 
all  special  procedures  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
Tunisia  welcomed  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the 
promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms  while  countering  terrorism  and 
the  Special  Rapporteur  on  torture  and  other  cruel, 
inhuman  or  degrading  treatment  or  punishment,  who 
visited  Tunisian  prisons  and  detention  centres  and 
made observations and recommendations.  

Many  international  entities  and  organizations 
working on human rights issues have opened offices in 
Tunis.  I  would  cite  the  particular  example  of  the  new 
country office of the Office of the High Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights,  which  was  opened  in  July  by  the 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, 
Ms.  Navanethem  Pillay,  and  which  confirms  our 
collective  will  to  promote  cooperation  as  a  means  of 
truly recognizing human rights.  

My country also worked to reactivate the national 
committee to follow up on the recommendations made 
by  the  various  human  rights  treaty  bodies  and  special 
rapporteurs  and  organizations  active  in  the  field  of 
human rights. It also set up a committee to harmonize 
its national legislation with international human rights 
instruments. 
to 
A/66/PV.49
to 
its 
transition 
That  new  momentum 
international  community 

towards  productive 
cooperation  with  the  Human  Rights  Council  was  also 
recognized  with  the  Council’s  adoption,  on  24  March, 
of  resolution  16/19  on  cooperation  between  Tunisia 
and  the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human 
Rights,  which  demonstrated  the  firm  commitment  of 
the 
supporting  my 
country’s efforts to promote human rights, in particular 
by  mobilizing  the  resources  needed  to  tackle  its 
economic and social challenges.  

On 23 October, Tunisia took a giant step forward 
in 
to  democracy  by  holding  free, 
democratic  and  transparent  elections  for  the  first  time 
in  its  history.  Tunisians,  hungry  for  democracy  and 
freedom, affirmed their commitment to civic duty with 
a massive turnout at the polls to exercise their right to 
choose their representatives in the National Constituent 
Assembly,  many  of  them  for  the  first  time  in  their 
lives. More than 90 per cent of registered voters turned 
out  to  vote.  In  that  connection,  we  reiterate  our  deep 
gratitude  to  the  United  Nations  and  all  international 
observers  for  their  commendable  efforts  to  ensure  a 
smooth and successful electoral process. 

We  take  this  opportunity  to  reaffirm  our  major 
commitment to securing the gains already made so that 
the Tunisian  people  can  enjoy  a  better  future,  thereby 
responding 
for  a 
democratic,  fair,  free,  united  and  developed  system  of 
Government.  

Aware of the importance of the support provided 
by  the  United  Nations  human  rights  machinery  for 
efforts  to  promote  human  rights,  Tunisia  is  preparing 
its  second  national  report,  which  is  to  be  submitted 
next June as part of the second cycle of the Universal 
Periodic  Review.  The 
report  will  give  us  an 
opportunity  to  highlight  not  only  our  national  efforts, 
in  particular  those  made  to  implement  all  of  the 
recommendations stemming from the first cycle of the 
Review,  but  also  the  related  challenges  that  remain. 
The  second  cycle  will  certainly  help  to  promote  the 
role  of  that  innovative  mechanism  and  thereby  ensure 
that it will play a more active role in helping countries 
such  as  mine  that  wish  to  build  their  capacities  to 
promote and protect human rights.  

In  conclusion,  we  reiterate  our  determination  to 
take  further  steps  to  ensure  our  full  and  stable 
cooperation  with  the  Human  Rights  Council.  In  that 
way, Tunisia will succeed in its transition to democracy 
their  deepest  aspirations 
11-57707 

17 
through 
A/66/PV.49 

and  be  better  able  to  promote  the  culture  of  human 
rights in its broadest form around the world.  
Mr. Abdelaziz (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): At the 

outset, I would like to express Egypt’s appreciation for 
the detailed statement delivered by the President of the 
Human Rights Council to the General Assembly on the 
work of the Council, following her valuable statement 
to  the  Third  Committee  on  the  report  of  the  Council 
(A/66/53 and A/66/53/Add.1), which was submitted in 
accordance  with  General  Assembly  resolution  65/281 
on the review of the Human Rights Council.  

Since its establishment by the General Assembly 
in its resolution 60/251, the Human Rights Council has 
continuously improved its performance by harmonizing 
its  working  methods  and  standards  and  adopting  a 
constructive  and  cooperative  approach  to  dealing  with 
human  rights  issues,  with  a  view  to  providing  advice 
and the necessary support. As a subsidiary body of the 
General Assembly, the Council plays an important role 
in  promoting  human  rights 
international 
cooperation,  as  established  by  the  World  Summit 
Outcome  Document  of  2005  (resolution  60/1),  and 
contributes  to  activities  aimed  at  promoting  universal 
respect for human rights. Those mechanisms should be 
activated  in  all  Member  States  without  exception, 
double standards, politicization or selectivity, and in an 
objective and fair, equal and impartial manner. 

is  making 
continuous  efforts  to  promote  and  protect  human 
rights, as well as to address the various challenges and 
make concerted efforts to overcome them. In particular, 
we  must  restore  cooperation 
international 
interest  in  and  attention  to  economic,  social  and 
cultural rights, on the one hand, and civil and political 
rights, on the other hand. That can be done by bridging 
the gap between the North and the South with a view to 
improving  living  standards,  which  in  turn  would  help 
to advance the cause of human rights.  

We  should  also  strengthen  our  efforts  to  combat 
all  forms  of  discrimination  on  the  basis  of  race,  sex, 
the 
language 
religion, 
in 
implementation  of  our 
accordance  with 
its 
programme of action and the outcome document of its 
review  conference,  as  well  as  the  political  declaration 
(resolution  66/3)  adopted  by  consensus  during  the 
High-level  Meeting  of 
to 
commemorate the tenth anniversary of the adoption of 
through 
commitments, 
the  Durban  Declaration, 
the  General  Assembly 
including 
joint 
international 
community 
The 
the 
or 
in 

to 
the  United  Nations 
the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action, held 
last September. 

In addition, we have an obligation to support and 
respect  the  institutional  balance  between  the  roles  of 
the  principal  organs  of 
in 
addressing  human  rights  issues,  while  paying  special 
attention  to  the  economic,  social  and  cultural  aspects 
involved. In doing so, we should stand up to those who 
attempt  to  impose  their  values  and  views  and  the 
standards  of  their  justice,  social,  legal  and  human 
rights  systems  on  others,  and 
force  certain 
controversial  notions  that  ignore  the  diverse  social, 
cultural and legislative systems of the world. 

In  that  regard,  it  is  important  to  respect  the 
mandate  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  to  refrain 
from  submitting  country-specific  recommendations  to 
the Third Committee, particularly since those decisions 
target only developing countries and hinder our efforts 
to reach consensus-based cooperative solutions, which 
can  help  to  build  respect  for  human  rights  around  the 
world. 

We  should  therefore  reiterate  the  importance  of 
not politicizing the Council and the significance of its 
central role in ensuring respect for all human rights and 
international  humanitarian  law,  in  particular  in  the 
occupied  Palestinian  territories,  by  verifying  Israel’s 
full  compliance  with  all  its  international  obligations, 
including  its  commitment  to  cooperate  fully  with  the 
Special  Rapporteur  and 
the  fact-finding  missions 
mandated by the Human Rights Council to investigate 
gross  human 
the  occupied 
Palestinian territories. 
Furthermore,  we  must  enhance  dialogue  and 

promote  constructive  cooperation 
the 
effectiveness  of  the  special  procedures  system.  It  is  a 
shared responsibility of the mandate holders, the States 
and all other relevant parties, which should be based on 
the  principles  of  transparency,  fairness  and  mutual 
cooperation, while ensuring full respect by the special 
procedures  of  their  mandates  and  responsibilities  as 
established by the Human Rights Council. 

importance  of 
identifying  the  financial  resources  needed  to  support 
the  activities  of  the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner 
for Human Rights so as to enable it to follow up on all 
Council 
the  necessary 
assistance  to  Member  States  in  the  area  of  capacity-
building.  Those  resources  should  be  drawn  from  the 
resolutions  and  provide 
rights  violations 
Finally,  Egypt 
to  ensure 
reiterates 
the 
in 
18 

11-57707 
to 
in 
Egypt 
transition 


regular budget and conditional external funding should 
be  avoided.  Assured,  accountable  and  transparent 
funding  from  the  regular  budget  will  secure  the 
Office’s role in the work of the Council. 

is  currently  witnessing  a  major  and 
positive 
its  history,  based  on  an 
unwavering 
commitment 
the  principles  of 
democracy, 
transparency  and  accountability  and 
respect for all human rights and fundamental freedoms. 
In that regard, Egypt reiterates the important role of the 
Human  Rights  Council,  based  on  our  conviction  that 
human  dignity,  dialogue,  cooperation  and  mutual 
understanding  guaranteed  by  human 
rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms  are  the  essential  cornerstone  to 
ensure respect for those rights. 

Egypt  will  seek  to  consolidate  and  promote  the 
role of the Council, on the principles of accountability 
and  transparency,  believing  that  human  dignity  is  the 
main  aim  of  all  our  efforts  to  guarantee  respect  for 
human rights. 
Mr. Chuquihuara (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): My 

delegation  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Human Rights Council, Ms. Laura Dupuy Lasserre, for 
her  presentation  of  the  Council  reports  (A/66/53  and 
A/66/53/Add.1)  to  the  General  Assembly.  Peru  notes 
that  the  work  of  that  important  United  Nations  body 
provides  essential  elements  for  the  promotion  and 
protection of human rights.  

the  body 
responsible  for  promoting  universal  respect  for  and 
protection  of  all  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms for everyone without distinction and in a just 
and  equitable  manner.  That  is  a  fundamental  task, 
absolutely requiring the support of all States, given that 
human  beings  are 
focus  of  our 
Organization. 

In  that  regard,  we  are  pleased  to  see  that  the 
Council’s resolutions and decisions consistently seek to 
promote  greater  understanding  of  and  enjoyment  of 
human  rights.  Examples  are 
the  United  Nations 
Declaration on Human Rights Education and Training, 
the Optional Protocol to the Convention on the Rights 
of  the  Child  on  a  communications  procedure  and  the 
Council’s  commitment  to  further  developing  human 
rights  through  its  study  on  climate  change  and  human 
rights. The Council also seeks to take proactive action 
on  urgent  situations  that  threaten  human  rights  in 
various parts of the world. 
The  Human  Rights  Council 
the  central 
is 
A/66/PV.49
the  Working  Group  on 
the  principles  of  universality, 

Peru  is  a  new  member  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council, and as such it takes on the great responsibility 
of promoting and protecting the human rights of all the 
planet’s  citizens  without  distinction. As  a  member  — 
and  in  line  with  its  historic  commitment  to  human 
rights  both  nationally  and  internationally  —  Peru  will 
continue to work to make the Council effectively fulfil 
its  mandate  to  vigilantly  engage  in  all  instances  of 
human  rights  violations,  no  matter  where,  in  keeping 
with 
indivisibility, 
impartiality, objectivity and non-discrimination. 

Peru  has  worked  with  Human  Rights  Council 
special  procedures  mandate  holders  and  working 
groups. It has hosted visits from the Working Group on 
arbitrary detention, the Working Group on enforced or 
involuntary disappearances, the Special Rapporteur on 
adequate  housing,  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  right 
to  health, 
the  use  of 
mercenaries,  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  human 
rights of migrants, the Special Rapporteur on the rights 
of  indigenous  peoples,  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the 
promotion  and  protection  of  human 
rights  and 
fundamental freedoms while countering terrorism and, 
most recently, the Special Rapporteur on contemporary 
forms of slavery. 
Peru  will  continue  along  those  same  lines  in 

supporting 
special 
procedures system and the Universal Periodic Review. 
My country believes that in order to fulfil the Council’s 
mandate 
it  must  closely  cooperate  with  regional 
organizations,  national  human  rights  institutions  and 
civil society. To do that, Peru will promote and support 
initiatives 
those  actors’  participation. 
Technical assistance and capacity-building are also key 
elements  of  the  Council’s  mandate.  In  that  regard,  as 
we  have  reiterated  many  times,  Peru  will  support 
efforts  to  effectively  respond  to  States’  requests  for 
technical assistance. 

At  its  eighteenth  session,  the  Human  Rights 
Council adopted by consensus resolution 18/7 on truth, 
justice,  reparation  and  guarantees  of  non-recurrence, 
which  Peru  presented  along  with  other  delegations,. 
The  resolution  established  a  Special  Rapporteur  with 
the mandate of addressing and promoting the rights to 
truth, justice, reparation and guarantees of non-recurrence. 
Peru was one of the leading sponsors of that initiative 
because  it  is  our  deep  conviction  that,  faced  with 
violence  and  flagrant  violations  of  human  rights, 
building  a  society  that  is  more  just,  unified,  peaceful 
strengthen 
initiatives 
increase 
the 
to 
to 
11-57707 

19 
circumstances 
resulting 
In 
line  with 
that  aims 
to  strengthen 
indivisibility  and 
its  deep  commitment 
A/66/PV.49 

and  prosperous  requires  a  quest  for  truth.  Truth  can 
explain  the  causes  of  violence,  so  as  to  prevent  it, 
identify and bring to justice those responsible for it and 
offer reparations to victims and their families, restoring 
their dignity. 

Peru  participated  actively  both  in  Geneva  and 
New  York  in  the  Human  Rights  Council  review 
process.  The  Council,  under 
the  presidency  of 
Ms. Dupuy,  will enter a  critical phase  in which it will 
implement  the  findings  of  the  review  of  its  work  and 
functioning. That  will  be  an  opportunity  to  strengthen 
the Council’s mechanisms, so as to respond effectively 
to  victims’  needs  and 
to  prevent  human  rights 
violations  from  occurring.  We  hope  that  the  Council 
can  count  on  funding  sufficient  for  it  to  fulfil  its 
functions,  including  needs  arising  in  unforeseen  or 
extraordinary 
in  urgent 
resolutions or decisions on the part of the Council. 

to 
the 
universality, 
interdependence  of 
human  rights,  Peru  will  continue  to  support  any 
initiative 
the  work  and 
functioning  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  and  its 
important  task  of  defending  the  human  rights  of  all 
people,  without  distinction.  Respecting  and  promoting 
human  rights  can  no  longer  be  just  an  ideal. We  must 
use  the  mechanisms  we  have  and  our  experience  to 
make the ideal a reality. 
Mr. Kodama (Japan): I thank the President of the 

Human  Rights  Council.  Ms.  Laura  Dupuy  Lasserre, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Uruguay  in  Geneva,  for 
the  presentation  of  her 
(A/66/53  and 
A/66/53/Add.1)  today,  both  to  the  Third  Committee 
and the General Assembly, and for her dedicated work 
in the Council. 
The international community has been faced with 

new  challenges 
rights 
machinery  and  responsibly  address  ongoing  human 
rights  violations  around  the  world.  To  that  effect,  the 
Human  Rights  Council  has  an  increasingly  important 
role  to  play  in  the  international  community.  Since  its 
establishment,  the  Council  has  steadily  accumulated 
achievements. 

First, the Universal Periodic Review was created 
as  a  new  mechanism  to  improve  the  human  rights 
situations in all Member States through their voluntary 
follow-up  actions.  Secondly,  the  special  procedures 
in 
complement 
the  Universal  Periodic  Review 
to  strengthen 
reports 
the  human 

addressing  serious  human  rights  violations  around  the 
world.  Japan  places  a  high  value  on  the  role  of  the 
special  procedures  and  has  extended  an  official 
standing  invitation  to  all  thematic  mandate  holders. 
Thirdly,  the  Council  has  convened  special  sessions  in 
response  to  serious  human  rights  violations  and  has 
taken appropriate actions, including the urgent dispatch 
of  an  international  commission  of  inquiry  and  the 
strong  messages  sent  to  the  international  community 
through resolutions. 

Japan has been a member of the Council from its 
establishment  in  2006  until  this  year  and  is  now 
standing as a candidate in the 2012 election. In Geneva 
and  New  York,  Japan  has  engaged  in  efforts  to 
strengthen the work and functioning of the Council and 
participated  actively  in  the  negotiations  of  the  Human 
Rights Council review this year.  

As  all  Member  States  know,  those  negotiations 
were  extremely  difficult.  The  co-facilitators  and  all 
States made efforts to reach an agreement. As a result, 
an  outcome  was  reached 
that  contained  a  few 
improvements to the Council, although not all we had 
hoped  for.  We  agreed  on  an  improved  and  more 
practical  way  to  align  the  Council’s  work  with  its 
membership  and  reporting  cycle.  With  regard  to  the 
financial  issue,  the  outcome  requested  the  Secretary-
General  to  present  a  report  with  options  for  the  Fifth 
Committee  to  consider,  including  ways  to  implement 
urgent mandates as decided by the Council. 

On  the  other  hand,  we  also  sought  concrete  and 
practical  measures,  including  the  improvement  of  the 
election  process 
the  active 
participation  of  the  membership,  with  the  aim  of 
strengthening the implementation of resolution 60/251. 
Unfortunately,  we  were  unable  to  agree  on  such  an 
outcome. 

We  would  like  to  stress  that  the  Council  was 
established  to  mainstream  human  rights,  that  is,  to 
integrate  a  human  rights  perspective  into  all  United 
Nations  activities.  We  should  further  strengthen  the 
functioning  of 
the  United  Nations  as  a  whole, 
recognizing that the role of the Third Committee of the 
General Assembly as a universal body that includes all 
Member  States  is  also  important.  We  expect  both  the 
Third  Committee  and  the  Council  to  fulfil  their  roles, 
making full use of their respective advantages. 

expectations  of 
In  the  future,  the  Council  should  fulfil  the 
international  community  by 
to  ensure 
in  order 
the 
20 

11-57707 
is 
for 
to 
reflected 
reviewing 
According 
responsible 
its  functions 
the  agreements 


further  concrete  achievements  and  by 
accruing 
strengthening 
through  a  continuous 
review  of  its  own  work.  We  hope  that  the  General 
Assembly  will  also  review  the  Council’s  work  in  the 
near future through an agreement of the Member States 
in order to advance the mainstreaming of human rights 
throughout the United Nations system. 
Mr.  Ulibarri  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Costa  Rica  welcomes  the  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  (A/66/53  and  Add.1).  We  are 
especially  pleased  that  the  Ambassador  of  Uruguay, 
Laura Dupuy Lasserre, presented it to this body in her 
capacity  as  President  of  the  Council. That  is  a  step  in 
the right direction to give the importance it deserves to 
that central body of the Organization on the question of 
human rights. 

in 
resolution 65/281, on the review of the Council, review 
or  consideration  of  the  report  as  such  should  be 
conducted  in  this  plenary  meeting,  while  the  Third 
Committee 
its 
recommendations. 
As we indicated when we explained our position 

at  the  adoption  of  that  resolution  (see  A/65/PV.100), 
the final outcome of the review process did not reflect 
all  our  hopes,  but  it  was  the  result  of  lengthy 
negotiations  and  came  as  close  as  possible 
to 
consensus, with a positive outlook. In that regard, it is 
crucial  for  all  countries  to  honour  the  commitments 
that  we  made  in  good-faith  negotiations,  and  that  we 
act accordingly.  

We  would  also  have  preferred  that  the  report  be 
presented first in the Assembly plenary so that it could 
be  considered  in  its  entirety  and  then  to  the  Third 
Committee as the basis for the examination of specific 
recommendations, as was indicated in the letter and the 
logic of the resolution approved. Equally, we consider 
it  indispensable  not  to  schedule  meetings  of  the Third 
Committee  when  the  report  of  the  Council  is  being 
considered in the Assembly.  

We invite Member States, future presidencies and 
the Secretariat to consider these important points with 
a view to improving future decisions on this matter.  

the 
promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  and  to  the 
work  of  the  Council.  The  eighteenth  session,  which 
took place from 12 to 30 September and on 21 October 
is  strongly  committed 
My  country 
A/66/PV.49
guarantees 
the  creation  of 
the  mandate  of 
the  promotion  of 
on 
2011, was the first regular session in which Costa Rica 
participated  as  a  new  member  State.  As  proof  of  our 
commitment,  our  delegation  was  led  at  the  highest 
level, by the President of the Republic, who pledged to 
take  on  our  new  work  responsibly,  seeking  to  build 
bridges  between  opposing  positions  and  to  contribute 
so  that  decisions  and  resolutions  adopted  by  the 
Council  are  fully  implemented,  especially  on  the 
ground.  

Through our participation, and in every one of the 
actions  taken  as  a  member  of  the  Council,  we  have 
continuously sought to act in accord with the principles 
of  universality,  impartiality,  objectivity,  non-selectivity, 
non-politicization, constructive international dialogue and 
cooperation,  following  the  commitments  we  made  to 
the  membership  in  our  promises  and  pledges  at  the 
time of our candidacy.  

Among  the  important  achievements  of  the  most 
recent Council session, we would like to call attention 
to 
the  Special 
truth, 
Rapporteur  on 
justice, 
reparation 
and 
non-recurrence 
(resolution  18/7)  and  the  adoption  of  resolution  18/22 
on  human  rights  and  climate  change.  With  respect  to 
the  protection  and  promotion  of  human  rights  and  the 
protection  of  the  environment,  we  believe  that  a 
comprehensive approach should be adopted in order to 
analyse  all  the  effects  of  environmental  deterioration 
on the full exercise of human rights and to respond to 
them  effectively.  We  should  consider  establishing  a 
special  procedure  on  human 
the 
environment. 

the 
During 
constructive cooperation with a number of countries, as 
we  had  done  when  we  were  observers.  Along  with 
62 other States, we renewed our open invitation to the 
special  procedures,  promoting  the  universality  of  an 
initiative  already  backed  by  88  countries.  We 
respectfully invite those countries that have not already 
done  so  to  extend  and  honour  that  open  invitation, 
especially if they hope to hold a seat on the Council.  

Along  with  Belgium,  Italy  and  Slovenia,  we 
introduced  decision  18/117,  adopted  by  consensus, 
requesting the Secretary-General to continue to prepare 
an annual report on the application of the death penalty 
in  the  world.  In  that  proposal,  we  stressed  the 
importance  of  consultation  with  Governments  and 
other relevant stakeholders, and we sought an approach 
session,  we 
continued 
rights 
that 
and 
to 
11-57707 

21 

A/66/PV.49 

based on the protection of the rights of those who face 
the death penalty.  

Similarly,  through  parallel  events,  together  with 
the Permanent Mission of Spain and other entities, we 
promoted the human right to peace. We are continuing 
to promote human rights education and training, along 
with Slovenia, the Philippines, Italy, Morocco, Senegal 
and Switzerland.  

With  respect  to  the  report  in A/66/53,  we  would 
like  to  highlight  the  recommendations  brought  before 
the  Assembly  at  this  session  to  adopt  the  United 
Nations  Declaration  on  Human  Rights  Education  and 
Training (resolution 16/1) and the Optional Protocol to 
the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  on  a 
communications  procedure  (resolution  17/18).  These 
are fundamental advances in the issue of human rights 
and  are  the  fruit  of  years  of  open  and  inclusive 
negotiations.  Just  as  we  did  on  the  occasion  of  the 
outcome of the Geneva meeting of the review process 
of the Human Rights Council, we wish to reiterate our 
call to  uphold the results  of that  body’s work,  and  we 
request States to adopt these resolutions by consensus. 

Finally,  we  believe  that  we  have  a  responsibility 
to  continue  improving  this  Organization’s  system  for 
the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights.  The 
Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights 
requires independence and funding. Sufficient funding 
must  be  made  readily  available  so  as  to  meet  the 
unexpected  needs  of  the  Council.  That  requires  that 
States 
upcoming 
deliberations.  It  is  also  essential  that  we  respect  the 
independence  of  special 
the 
resources for their proper functioning, and maintain the 
integrity of their mandates.  
There  are  many  other  improvements  that  do  not 

need  new  decisions  or  policy  changes,  but  just  the 
political will of States. We therefore urge all members 
to  think  creatively  and  to  promote  changes  in  the 
Council’s day-to-day practice, while taking closely into 
account the contributions of civil society organizations, 
and citizens in general, in that undertaking. 
Mr.  Guerber  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

would like to thank the President of the Human Rights 
Council for her presentation of the annual report of the 
Council  (A/66/53  and  Add.1).  I  also 
thank  her 
predecessor. 
rapporteurs,  ensure 
positively 
respond 
our 
in 
expectations 
associated  with 
the  general  surge 
inclusion  and  genuine 

Switzerland welcomes the fact that human rights 
have  become  more  visible  in  the  United  Nations 
system. The presentation of the Council’s annual report 
in  that  context  is  an  example.  However,  my  country 
regrets  that  the  review  of  the  functioning  of  the 
Council did not ultimately lead to our exchange today 
taking the form of an interactive dialogue. 

Switzerland views the Council’s work positively. 
Over the past year, the Council was able to respond to 
the  many 
its 
establishment.  Thanks  to  the  special  sessions,  the 
dispatch  of  fact-finding  missions  and  the  creation  of 
new mandates, the Council has been able to respond in 
an  appropriate  and  timely  manner  to  emergencies  and 
the latest developments. 

In recent months, the dynamic within the Council 
has  developed  in  a  promising  way  in  response  to 
democratic  movements  and 
in 
popular  support.  The  nature  of 
those  changes 
underlines the importance that States should accord to 
the  search  for  comprehensive  solutions  in  a  spirit  of 
cooperation, 
transregional 
dialogue.  To  that  end,  efforts  to  overcome  current 
divisions among regional groups must continue. 

As  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
Switzerland is actively committed to strengthening the 
Council’s  actions  on  several  themes.  I  will  give  just 
three examples.  

the  discussions 
Switzerland 
during the panel on promotion and protection of human 
rights  in  the  context  of  peaceful  protests,  at  the 
Council’s  eighteenth  session,  in  September.  Its  goal 
was  to  draw  the  Council’s  attention  to  a  phenomenon 
that is becoming increasingly widespread. 

Switzerland  is  also  one  of  the  main  authors 
behind  the  establishment  of  a  new  mandate  for  a 
special  rapporteur  on  promotion  of  truth,  justice, 
reparations  and  guarantees  of  non-recurrence.  That 
mandate  will  certainly  reinforce  the  fight  against 
impunity. 

Thirdly,  Switzerland  is  happy  to  have  actively 
participated  in  the  transregional  Platform  for  Human 
Rights  Education  and  Training.  The  members  of  that 
transregional  Platform  will  propose 
the  Third 
Committee, during the current session, the adoption of 
a  United  Nations  declaration  on  that  issue,  along  the 
is  pleased  with 
to 
22 

11-57707 


lines  of  that  adopted  by  the  Human  Rights  Council  in 
March (A/HRC/RES/16/1, annex). 

Switzerland  sees  two  main  challenges  to  address 
in  order  for  the  Council  to  continue  to  work  for  the 
realization  of  all  human  rights  for  all  and  to  respond 
effectively to serious human rights violations wherever 
they may be committed. 

First,  my  delegation  is  thinking  of  the  Universal 
Periodic  Review  and  some  special  procedures.  Those 
mechanisms  have  the  potential  to  contribute,  in  a 
concrete  manner,  to  improving  the  human  rights 
situation  on  the  ground.  The  implementation  of  their 
recommendations is seen as the most important aspect 
of the Council’s work. With the end of the first cycle of 
the  universal  periodic  review,  the  follow-up  given  to 
the  agreed  recommendations  will  be  the  key  issue  of 
the Council’s first decade. 

Secondly, Switzerland welcomes with satisfaction 
the  Secretary-General’s  plan  to  increase  the  budget 
earmarked for activities linked to human rights and the 
Human  Rights  Council,  which  today  amounts  only  to 
some 3 per cent of the United Nations regular budget. 
Switzerland also calls for lasting solutions to be found 
to  the  financing  and  implementation  of  measures 
decided  by  the  Council,  in  particular  with  regard  to 
urgent  measures.  A  mechanism 
the 
Secretary-General’s  unforeseen  and  extraordinary 
expenses  should  be  established  in  the  field  of  human 
rights. 

Finally, Switzerland expresses its appreciation for 
the  work  of  the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for 
Human  Rights  in  support  of  the  Council  and  of  its 
mechanisms and for its technical assistance. That work 
must  continue  within  the  context  of  the  autonomy 
granted  to  the  High  Commissioner  under  resolution 
48/141, which created his mandate. 
Mr. Tinajero (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): At the 

outset,  I  would  like  to  welcome  the  President  of  the 
Human Rights Council and thank her for presenting to 
the  General  Assembly  the  report  of  the  Council 
(A/66/53  and  Add.1).  The  delegation  of  Mexico  also 
wishes  to  acknowledge  her  work  and  to  once  again 
assure her of our full support in that regard. 

In  2005,  the  international  community  recognized 
that it was necessary to raise the level of treatment of 
human  rights  in  our  Organization  by  setting  up  a  new 
body  to  strengthen  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  in 
similar 
to 
A/66/PV.49
to 
that 
the 
review  national  cases, 
their  promotion  and  protection  in  the  world.  Since 
then, the Human Rights Council has made progress in 
discharging  its  important  mandate  and  is  developing 
new  tools  in  order  to  have  a  genuine  and  more  rapid 
impact on the lives of millions of people.  

Last  year,  the  review  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council began with general agreements on the scope of 
that  exercise,  emphasizing  that  only  five  years  had 
elapsed  since  the  Council’s  establishment  and  that  it 
was  very  early  for  a  comprehensive  assessment  of  its 
functioning.  Some  themes  —  such  as  the  Council’s 
capacity 
the  special 
procedures  work,  the  topics  into  which  the  agenda  is 
divided, the structure of the Council and the election of 
its members — took up much of the time available for 
the  review  and,  in  some  cases,  affected  the  work 
culture,  which  is  key  to  the  Council  being  able  to 
properly further its work. 

Above all, time and political will were lacking to 
thoroughly study the changes introduced in 2006 and to 
complete  outstanding  tasks,  including  the  Council’s 
relation with other bodies of the system and the powers 
of  the  President  and  the  High  Commissioner.  Also 
pending  is  the  proposal  that  the  Council  become  a 
principal  organ  of  the  Organization,  which  Mexico 
continues to support. 

Notwithstanding, we can affirm that the outcome 
of the review is positive. In particular, it confirmed the 
prior  understanding 
institution-building 
package  continues  to  reflect  the  basic  balances  and 
therefore  remains  the  basis  for  moving  ahead  in 
strengthening 
the 
promotion  and  protection  of  all  human  rights  for  all 
people in all regions and situations. 
It should be pointed out that at the same time that 

we  were  conducting  the  review  exercise,  the  Council 
was  making  full  use  of  all  available  tools  to  make 
decisions  on  a  broad  spectrum  of  issues,  such  as  the 
protection  of  the  rights  of  women  and  of  children, 
freedom  of  association  and  the  right  to  truth  and 
justice,  to  mention  only  a  few.  Moreover,  the  Council 
considered  pressing  situations  in  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Syria 
and  Libya.  In  the  latter  case,  it  recommended  that  the 
General Assembly suspend its membership rights. The 
special sessions and their outcomes are an example of 
the  effective  decisions  taken  five  years  ago,  at  the 
creation of the Council and its institutional structure.  
institutional  framework  for 
the 
11-57707 

23 
We  also  know 
A/66/PV.49 


Mexico  is  aware  that  the  Council’s  work  can  be 
improved and that there is ample space to improve the 
way it deals with national situations, the functioning of 
and  cooperation  with  the  special  procedures  and  the 
use of the few resources available. 

that  successes  bring  new 
challenges.  The  clearest  example  is  the  universal 
periodic  review,  which  requires  increased  support  and 
technical  cooperation  so  that  during  the  second  cycle 
States  can  implement  the  commitments  made  in  the 
first cycle. The increase in signatories and ratifications 
of human  rights treaties,  which is due  in some part  to 
that exercise, also demands greater resources. More has 
to be done, and with greater efficiency. To us it seems 
urgent  that  we  address  with  greater  determination  the 
coherence  of  the  United  Nations  system  for  the 
promotion and enjoyment of all human rights.  

The Human Rights Council must continue to play 
its  central  role  as  the  specialized  political  body  for 
developing new standards for the protection of human 
rights, international monitoring mechanisms and spaces 
where  civil  society  and  national  human 
rights 
institutions  can  participate.  The  Council  must  also 
examine the way it interacts with other United Nations 
bodies,  organs  and  entities  to  ensure  that  the  human 
rights perspective is integrated into each and all of the 
activities of the United Nations.  

In  that  context,  complementarity  between  the 
Human  Rights  Council  and  the  General  Assembly  is 
essential, as is the active participation and commitment 
of 
requires 
avoiding unnecessary duplication or voids and making 
use  of  the  areas  in  which  responsibilities  can  be 
distributed appropriately.  
importance  of 

avoiding  duplication  of  efforts  and 
resources, 
delegations  can  find  it  difficult  to  take  concrete  steps 
with regard to their own initiatives. Mexico has carried 
out  an  internal  evaluation  exercise  that  prioritized  the 
substantive  and  differentiated  treatment  of  issues  in 
accordance  with  the  competencies  of  each  relevant 
body. We are also staggering the presentations of some 
of  our 
the 
development of the issues. 

Lastly,  allow  me  to  stress  the  importance  of  the 
General  Assembly’s  firm  support  of  the  work  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council,  backing  its  recommendations, 
important  pillar  of 
helping 
the  High  Commissioner.  Coherence 
initiatives  without 
While  we  all  recognize 
the 
to 
strengthen 
that 
that 
affecting 

also 
multilateral  action  and  making  use  of 
its  broad 
attributes.  The  work  of  the  Third  Committee  in 
supporting the Council is indispensable. 
Mr. McLay (New Zealand): New Zealand thanks 

the  Human  Rights  Council, 
the  President  of 
Ambassador  Dupuy  Lasserre  of  Uruguay, 
for 
presenting  the  Council’s  sixth  annual  report  (A/66/53 
and  Add.1).  We 
thank  her  predecessor, 
Ambassador  Phuangketkeow  of  Thailand,  for  his 
excellent  work.  New  Zealand  remains  a  committed 
supporter of the Human Rights Council as the principal 
human rights body of the United Nations.  

This  year  there  has  been  no  shortage  of  serious 
human rights challenges, including in the context of the 
Arab  Spring.  Since  the  special  session  on  Libya  in 
February,  the  Council  has  exhibited  an  increased 
willingness  to  act  decisively  when  faced  with  serious 
human  rights  violations.  Its  actions  on  Libya,  Côte 
d’Ivoire and Syria, the debates on other situations, and 
the  appointment  of  a  new  Special  Rapporteur  on  Iran 
all exemplify this positive progress.  

The  Council  will  be  judged  by  its  willingness  to 
engage on human rights violations. This year has seen 
it  fulfilling  its  mandate  in  a  constructive  and  cross-
regional manner. 

The ability to work cross-regionally has also been 
evident  in  many  of  the  Council’s  thematic  initiatives. 
In  the  Council’s  March  session,  New  Zealand  and 
Mexico  again  presented  a  resolution  on  the  rights  of 
persons  with  disabilities,  a  resolution  which  built  on 
work  of  the  Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  for 
Human  Rights  (OHCHR)  and  looked  at  how  States 
might best fulfil their obligations under the Convention 
on the Rights of Persons  with Disabilities with regard 
to international cooperation and assistance. And in the 
September  session,  we  worked  again  with  Colombia 
and  Burkina  Faso  to  present  a  resolution  inviting 
OHCHR to convene an expert working group to enable 
a human rights approach to reducing unacceptably high 
global rates of maternal mortality. 

In  our  cross-regional  work  on  disability  and  on 
maternal  mortality,  and  in  many  other  areas  of  the 
Council’s work, we have, as always, been impressed by 
the  contribution  by  civil  society  and  national  human 
rights institutions. Civil society plays an active role in 
the  Council’s  work,  and  in  New  Zealand’s  view,  that 
assists  in  the  achievement  of  better  outcomes.  So  we 
24 

11-57707 


pay tribute to our colleagues in civil society for helping 
the Council fulfil its mandate. 

That  mandate  also  includes  promoting  effective 
coordination  and  mainstreaming  human  rights  within 
the  United  Nations  system.  Just  as  civil  society  has 
helped our work in the Council, New Zealand believes 
the  involvement  of  other  branches  of  the  United 
Nations system has made a positive difference. 

Having  just  completed  the  last  round  of  the  first 
cycle of the universal periodic review (UPR), it is also 
timely to reflect on that  aspect of the Council’s work. 
New Zealand regards the UPR as a valuable addition to 
the United Nations human rights machinery. 

At the 42nd meeting of the Pacific Islands Forum, 
held  in Auckland,  New  Zealand  in  September,  Pacific 
leaders acknowledged as a major regional achievement 
the  successful  participation  of  all  Forum  members  in 
that  round.  Crucial  support  was  provided  to  them  by 
the  Forum  Secretariat,  the  Regional  Rights  Resource 
Team of the Secretariat of the Pacific Community, and 
OHCHR. The resulting networks are now an important 
regional source of human rights expertise. 

We  also  regard  the  Council’s  special  procedures 
as  a  vital  tool  for  promoting  and  protecting  human 
rights.  Globally,  these  are,  as  many  have  said,  the 
Council’s  eyes  and  ears.  Last  year,  New  Zealand 
welcomed  a  visit  by  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  the 
situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms of 
indigenous  people,  Professor  James  Anaya,  and 
appreciated  his  identification  of  the  progress  we  had 
made, as well as the problems still to be addressed. The 
Government is acting on many of his recommendations 
and will continue to draw on his report. 

This  time  last  year,  we  were  in  the  midst  of 
reviewing the work and functioning of the Council, and 
New  Zealand  had  hoped 
that  would  present 
opportunities  to  improve  the  Council’s  effectiveness. 
While  any  resulting  improvements  were  modest,  we 
believe  the  success  of  the  Council  lies  not  just  in  the 
rules  that  govern  it,  but  also  in  the  manner  in  which 
those rules are implemented. 

The Council’s mandate is to promote and protect 
human rights. Fulfilling that mandate requires both the 
political  will  and  the  courage  to  act  decisively  and 
consistently. 
As  the  President  pointed  out  in  his  opening 

statement, human rights are one of the three pillars on 
A/66/PV.49
from 
the 
the 
to 
in  pursuing 
shortcomings  of 
which  the  United  Nations  was  founded.  As  we  move 
into  the  Council’s  seventh  year,  and  into  the  second 
cycle  of  the  UPR,  New  Zealand  hopes  that  this  year 
there  will  be  positive  progress 
the 
Council’s mandate and that that will be sustained. New 
Zealand certainly remains ready and willing to support 
that goal. 

Mr. Al  Habib (Islamic Republic of  Iran): At the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Human Rights Council for sharing with us an overview 
of the developments and activities of the Council over 
the  past  year  and  of  challenges  ahead,  and  for  her 
efforts in the promotion and protection of human rights 
at  the  Council.  Built  upon  the  invaluable  lessons 
learned 
former 
Commission  on  Human  Rights,  the  Human  Rights 
Council  has  inspired  new  hopes  and  motivation  for 
finding  sound  and  decent  solutions  to  the  maladies  of 
the  Commission,  in  particular  its  selective  manner  in 
addressing human rights situations. 

The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  considers  the 
Human  Rights  Council  to  be  a  focal  point  for  all 
Governments 
rights 
challenges,  free  of  politicization,  selectivity,  double 
standards 
as 
highlighted by resolution 60/251. 

There  were  high  expectations  that  the  Human 
Rights Council would be a forum for dialogue, mutual 
understanding  and  cooperation 
the 
universal  realization  of  human  rights,  taking  into 
account  the  diversity  of  cultures  and  civilizations. 
However,  to  our  grave  dissatisfaction,  new  concerted 
attempts  are  emerging  to  force  the  Council  back  onto 
the  path  of  the  former  Commission,  with  a  view  to 
transforming  it  into  a  mere  political  tool  to  serve  the 
political ambitions of a few countries. 

My  delegation  would  like  to  reiterate  that  the 
rationale behind creating the universal periodic review 
(UPR) was to ensure universality and non-selectivity in 
the  work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council.  There  is 
unanimity  among  the  States  that  such  a  mechanism 
constitutes  a  breakthrough  in  the  United  Nations 
intergovernmental human rights activities, and the real 
performance of this mechanism, in a logical setting, is 
to allow the human rights machinery to act beyond the 
monopoly  of  a  few  in  monitoring  the  human  rights 
situations of the Member States.  
address  global  human 
in  achieving 
and 
confrontational 
approaches, 
11-57707 

25 
However, 
it 
that  such 
that  despite 
is  deplorable 
A/66/PV.49 


the 
existence of the UPR mechanism in the Human Rights 
Council,  certain  countries  continue  to  table  country-
specific  resolutions  in  the  Human  Rights  Council  and 
in  the  Third  Committee  of  the  General  Assembly.  It 
goes  without  saying 
resolutions  are 
politically  motivated  exercises  designed  to  meet  the 
political purposes and interests of their sponsors. 

The  Government  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran 
is  fully  cooperating  with  the  United  Nations  human 
rights machinery. Last month, the third periodic report 
of the Islamic Republic of Iran on the implementation 
of  the  International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political 
Rights  was  considered  by 
the  Human  Rights 
Committee.  A  high-ranking  Iranian  delegation  that 
attended  the  meeting  had  an  interactive  and  fruitful 
dialogue with Committee members. 

With regard to the UPR mechanism, the national 
report  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  was  considered 
during the seventh session of the UPR Working Group, 
in  February  2010.  My  Government  had  made 
comprehensive arrangements with all national stakeholders, 
non-governmental 
including 
institutions, to draw up and submit the national report 
for the consideration of the UPR Working Group. The 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  fully  and  closely  cooperated 
with 
a 
report  and 
comprehensive  and  detailed  national 
dispatching a high-ranking delegation that actively and 
constructively  participated  in  the  review  of  Iran’s 
national  report  in  order  to  play  its  part  in  the 
enhancement  and  promotion  of  this  newly  established 
mechanism. 

The  world  is  facing  numerous  human  rights 
challenges,  such  as  poverty,  discrimination  against 
migrants and religious minorities in Western countries, 
racial 
and 
aggression.  It  is  expected  that  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  relying  on  the  principles  of  objectivity, 
and 
cooperation, 
consensus,  will 
undertake  a  more  active  role 
those 
challenges. 

Iran  has 
continuously emphasized the significance of interactive 
and cooperative approaches in the promotion of human 
rights  as  established  in  the  purposes  and  principles  of 
the  United  Nations  Charter.  We  are  determined  to 
continue our constructive cooperation with the Council 
the  UPR  mechanism  by 
Islamic  Republic  of 
discrimination, 
transparency 
governmental 
occupation 
submitting 
in 
tackling 
Finally, 
the 
and 
foreign 

to 
and 
like 
that 
recent 
human 
promptly 
to  express 
for  the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  all 
over the world. 
Mr.  Shin  Dong  Ik  (Republic  of  Korea):  At  the 

outset,  my  delegation  would 
its 
appreciation  to  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  Ambassador  Laura  Dupuy  Lasserre,  for 
presenting the sixth annual report of the Human Rights 
Council (A/66/53 and Add.1) to the General Assembly.  

The Republic of Korea is  pleased to note that in 
the  past  one-year  period  the  Human  Rights  Council 
responded 
rights 
emergencies,  especially  in  the  Middle  East  and  North 
Africa, through four special sessions. The international 
community  has  delivered  the  unified  message  that 
serious  human  rights  violations  should  be  ended 
immediately 
accountability  must  be 
established.  My  Government  once  again  urges  all 
relevant  Governments  and  entities  to  heed  this  urgent 
call by the international community. 

My  delegation  notes  with  satisfaction  that  the 
Universal  Periodic  Review  (UPR)  process  completed 
its first cycle with the conclusion of the twelfth session 
of the Working Group earlier this month. For the most 
part,  the  UPR  has  proved  to  be  a  very  constructive 
process  for  the  countries  that  have  participated.  In 
general, States under review have made sincere efforts 
in preparing their reports and also have displayed great 
flexibility,  openness  and  a  genuine  willingness  to 
cooperate  with  the  recommendations  presented  by 
other  participants  in  the  UPR  Working  Group.  Along 
similar  lines,  States  participating  in  conducting  the 
reviews  have  also  contributed  to  the  working  group 
process  by  making  clear,  constructive  and  pertinent 
recommendations. 
The  success  of  the  UPR  process  ultimately 

depends on the sincerity  with which States  respond to 
the  recommendations  put  forward.  The  human  rights 
records  of  all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations 
having  been  reviewed,  it  is  now  important  that  each 
State  take  the  recommendations  made  during  the  first 
cycle  of  the  UPR  seriously.  In  this  connection,  all 
States  should  make  sincere  efforts  to  fully  implement 
the  accepted 
through  concrete 
actions  and  tangible  measures  with  a  view  towards 
achieving  the  ultimate  goal  of  improving  the  human 
rights situation on the ground. 
The Republic of Korea is pleased to see that, as a 

follow-up to the outcome of the review of the work and 
recommendations 
26 

11-57707 
take 
there 
is  set 
in  which 
to  begin  next  year.  We 


functioning  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  some 
improvements  have  been  made  to  the  modality  and 
procedures  of  the  Working  Group  on  the  Universal 
Periodic Review. We look forward to the second cycle, 
which 
this 
opportunity to reiterate that we attach great importance 
to 
the  Universal  Periodic  Review  process  and 
expresses  its  strong  commitment  to  the  process  in  the 
future. 

We  would  also  like  to  acknowledge  that  the 
review  of  the  work  and  functioning  of  the  Human 
Rights Council, which was completed earlier this year, 
has provided us with a valuable opportunity to identify 
other  areas 
is  a  real  need  for 
improvement  and  to  find  ways  to  better  fulfil  the 
mandate of the Council. 

The  Republic  of  Korea  would  like  to  emphasize 
that many good proposals, especially on persistent non-
cooperation  and  on  the  capacity  of  the  Council  to 
respond promptly to human rights emergencies, should 
not  be  dismissed  simply  because  they  have  not  been 
reflected  in  the  outcome  document  of  the  review 
(Human  Rights  Council  resolution  17/9,  annex).  I 
believe  that  they  will  continue  to  be  a  good  reference 
point  in  an  ever-evolving  process  of  the  Council’s 
transformation into an even more effective and credible 
body in the future. 

In  parallel  with  the  Universal  Periodic  Review, 
the  special  procedures  system  is  an  important  tool  in 
the  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights.  The 
special 
an 
indispensable role in ensuring the timely and effective 
response  to  urgent  human  rights  situations  in  specific 
countries  or  in  reporting  on  major  thematic  issues. 
However,  persistent 
to 
cooperate  with 
the  special  procedures  not  only 
continue  to  present  a  major  challenge  to  mandate 
holders 
their  mandates  but  also 
undermine  the  capacity  of  the  Council  to  respond  to 
chronic  human  rights  concerns  and  emergencies.  We 
would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  our 
strong support for the special procedures and invite all 
States  to  continue  to  cooperate  with  and  assist  the 
special procedures mandate holders in their tasks. 

to  and 
application of human rights principles, the Republic of 
Korea  has  contributed  strongly  to  the  work  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council  through  its  two  consecutive 
As  a  firm  advocate  for  adherence 
refusals  by  some  States 
procedures  mandate 
in  carrying  out 
holders 
play 
A/66/PV.49
Changing 
terms  as  a  Council  member,  from  2006  to  2008  and 
2008 to 2011, and in its current position as an observer 
member.  I  would  like  to  once  again  reiterate  that  the 
Republic  of  Korea  looks  forward  to  continuing  its 
demonstrated  efforts  to  enhance  a  deeper  and  broader 
respect for human rights around the world. 
Mr.  Lukiyantsev  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke in 

Russian):  We  would  like  to  thank  Ms.  Laura  Dupuy 
Lasserre,  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  for 
introducing  the  reports  on  the  work  of  the  Council 
(A/66/53 and A/66/53/Add.1).  

The  establishment  of  the  Human  Rights  Council 
was  an  important  milestone  in  the  ongoing  reform  of 
the  United  Nations. 
the  main 
intergovernmental  human  rights  organ  in  the  United 
Nations  system  from  a  functional  commission  of  the 
Economic and Social Council into a subsidiary body of 
the  General  Assembly  was  a  real  step  forward  in 
acknowledging  the  importance  of  human  rights  as  a 
United Nations priority.  

Just a few months ago we completed an important 
stage in the review of the United Nations human rights 
structure. The review consisted of a systematic analysis 
of  the  strengths  and  weaknesses  of  the  Council,  its 
special procedures and other mechanisms. A key factor 
in the success of the review was the recognition by all 
States  of 
international 
cooperation  in  the  human  rights  field,  as  well  as  the 
principles  of  dialogue  and  mutual  understanding  in 
resolving  problems  in  the  humanitarian  sphere.  We 
believe that the results achieved to date will make the 
United Nations human rights machinery more effective 
so that all peoples and individuals will call upon it.  

In our view, one of the most important functions 
of the Council, which it is called on to exercise under 
resolution  60/251,  is  to  carry  out 
the  Universal 
Periodic  Review  of  the  human  rights  situation  in  all 
United  Nations  Member  States.  Russia  supported  the 
establishment  of  that  procedure  in  the  hope  that,  if 
carried  out  in  a  spirit  of  equal  rights  and  mutual 
respect, 
level  of 
confrontations  that  arise  in  intergovernmental  human 
rights efforts. We believe that ultimately the Universal 
Periodic  Review  will 
the 
discredited  practice  of  adopting  one-sided  and 
politicized resolutions on the human rights situation in 
one or another country. 
it  would  help 
completely 
strengthen 
the  need 
replace 
lower 
the 
to 
to 
11-57707 

27 
strictly  with 
relevant 

A/66/PV.49 

We also emphasize that it is essential for States to 

comply 
intergovernmental 
agreements that define the methodology of the Review, 
including  those  identifying  different  categories  of 
participants. It is significant that those provisions were 
unanimously confirmed in the recent review of Human 
Rights Council.  

One of the Council’s most important instruments 
is  the  special  procedures  system,  inherited  from  the 
Commission  on  Human  Rights.  Unfortunately,  despite 
the  undeniable  merits  of  the  special  procedures,  they 
also  had  severe  defects,  for  which  they  were  rightly 
criticized.  We  must  make  sure  that  human  rights 
machinery  operates  in  a  less  politicized  manner  and 
that  special  procedures  are  carried  out 
in  strict 
accordance  with  the  Code  of  Conduct  for  Special 
Procedures  Mandate-holders  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council, which was adopted by the General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-second  session  in  resolution  62/219.  From 
an  institutional  point  of  view,  the  Council  is  now 
characterized  by  new  types  of  relationships  between 
States  and  civil  society,  without  which  the  Council 
would  be  unable  to  meet  its  potential.  Russia  hopes  that 
the  Council  and  non-governmental 
relations  between 
human rights organizations will be founded on a basis 
of mutual respect and constructive dialogue. 
Russia  supports  initiatives  to  ensure  more  active 

in 
participation  by 
reviewing  the  basic  directions  being  pursued  by  the 
Office of the High Commissioner for Human Rights in 
its  work,  including  planning  and  the  implementation 
and  management  of  the  programmes  of  the  Office  at 
the  global,  regional  and  national  levels.  Relations 
between  the  Council  and  the  Office  of  the  High 
Commissioner  must  be 
transparent  with  genuine 
feedback.  In  relations  between  the  Council  and  the 
Office  of  the  High  Commissioner  the  same  principles 
should apply as applied between the Office of the High 
Commissioner  and  the  old  Commission  on  Human 
Rights,  especially  as  regards  accountability.  The 
provisions of resolution 48/141 regarding the mandate 
of the High Commissioner should apply to the Human 
Rights Council mandate as well.  
In  a  more  general  way,  the  ultimate  goal  of  the 

cooperative efforts of the Council and the Office of the 
High Commissioner should be to eliminate duplication 
of efforts in the work of United Nations human rights 
bodies,  which,  for  their  part,  must  be  complementary 
rather  than  competitive.  The  Vienna  Declaration  and 
the  Human  Rights  Council 
28 

Programme  of Action  reiterated  that  human  rights  are 
equal,  indivisible,  interdependent  and  complementary. 
We  therefore  wish  to  remind  the  Human  Rights 
Council  to  allot  equal  attention  in  its  work  to  all 
categories and norms in the protection of human rights. 
We believe that that must be a fundamental principle in 
setting the Council’s priorities and agenda, in both the 
short and long term. 

We also believe that the Council should give due 
attention  to  certain  other  conceptual  issues.  Given  the 
importance  of  the  intercivilizational  and  intercultural 
components of the United Nations work, we believe it 
appropriate  that  the  main  intergovernmental  human 
rights  body  should  deal  with  the  relationships  and 
mutual  influence  between  the  norms  and  standards  in 
human  rights  and  traditional  values.  We  believe  that 
universal  standards  with  regard  to  human  rights  stem 
from 
the  various  civilizations  and  cultural  and 
historical  traditions  in  different  societies.  That  unites 
us  in  our  commitment  to  human  rights;  it  does  not 
divide us. We believe that the resolutions on that topic 
adopted at the initiative of Russia provide a good basis 
for such an approach. 

As  to  whether  the  Human  Rights  Council  of  the 
United  Nations  will  be  able  to  meet  the  hopes  placed 
on  it  depends,  to  a  large  extent,  on  us  as  Member 
States.  The  guarantee  for  success  is  our  readiness  to 
listen  to  each  other,  to  consider  and  respect  the  views 
of  others,  and 
implement  our  own  decisions 
effectively. We call on partners among Member States 
and  representatives  of  civil  society  to  take  stock  of 
these  aspects  of  the  issue  so  as  to  make  the  Human 
Rights Council truly effective and productive. 
Mr.  Mohamed  (Maldives):  Allow  me  at  the 

outset  to  thank  Her  Excellency  Ambassador  Laura 
Dupuy  Lasserre,  President  of 
the  Human  Rights 
Council,  for  joining  us  here  today  and  for  presenting 
the report of the Human Rights Council to the General 
Assembly  (A/66/53  and  A/65/53/Add.1).  We  also 
welcome the opportunity to reflect on an eventful year 
for  the  Human  Rights  Council,  and  we  appreciate  the 
leadership taken by the Council on a number of issues 
of concern to the international community. 

As  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  the 
Maldives  has  taken  onboard  what  is  expected  of  a 
member  State,  that  is,  to  be  responsible  and  actively 
advocate  for 
the  protection  of  basic  rights  and 
fundamental freedoms for all. We pledge our continued 
to 
11-57707 


support  to  the  cause  of  promoting  and  protecting 
human rights, and will continue our work domestically 
and internationally in that regard. 

This  year  has  been  a  historic  one. The  events  in 
the  Middle  East  prove  that  all  peoples,  regardless  of 
race, ethnicity or religion, yearn for their freedoms and 
the full recognition of their basic rights. We commend 
the  transitions  that  have  taken  place  in Tunisia,  Egypt 
and  Libya,  and  encourage  those  States  to  fulfil  their 
obligations  to  their  citizens  and  to  swiftly  move 
towards implementing the necessary structural reforms. 

However,  we  must  be  mindful  that  every  human 
being is entitled to his or her rights, and we call on all 
parties  to  cease  the  ongoing  violence,  to  discourage 
extrajudicial  retributions  against  former  adversaries, 
and  to  work  to  ensure  protection  from  abuse  as  their 
countries  move  through  their  transition  phase.  We 
strongly encourage countries undergoing civil unrest to 
engage  in  dialogue  that  will  lead  to  peaceful  and 
substantive reforms. 

It is the work of the Human Rights Council, and 
the  United  Nations  as  a  whole,  to  facilitate  such 
outcomes.  We  call  upon  all  States  in  the  process  of 
transition  to  work  closely  with  United  Nations  bodies 
in  order 
institutions, 
including  an  independent  judiciary  and  proper  human 
rights mechanisms, and to ensure the establishment of 
an inclusive and democratic system of Government. 

Mr.  Shin  Dong  Ik  (Republic  of  Korea),  Vice-
President, took the Chair.  

As noted, Maldives has been active in the area of 
human rights since we underwent our own transition to 
a  democratic  system  of  Government  three  years  ago. 
We have used our own experience to define our human 
rights principles. Based on those guiding principles, we 
have  been  able  to  participate  in  a  number  of  issues  at 
the  international  level,  including  the  protection  of  the 
rights  of  women  and  the  review  of  the  work  of  the 
Human Rights Council. 
The Maldives also took a lead role in other areas 

of 
importance  and  concern.  In  response 
the 
unfolding events in the Middle East, we took action in 
the  Human  Rights  Council  in  calling  for  special 
sessions  on  Libya  and  Syria.  We  co-sponsored  the 
resolutions establishing commissions of inquiry to look 
into  allegations  of  gross  human  rights  violations  in 
both of those countries. 
to 
to  establish 
the  necessary 
A/66/PV.49
in 

In addition, the Maldives, working with a number 
of other key countries, also played an important part in 
the  negotiations  on  the  Optional  Protocol  to  the 
the  Rights  of 
Convention  on 
the  Child  on  a 
communications  procedure.  We 
the 
took  part 
discussions  with  a  view  to  bridging  the  differences  of 
opinion  among  delegations  and  to  underlining  the 
fundamental  nature  of  a  communications  procedure  to 
protect  the  rights  of  children.  We  hope  that  the 
resolution,  which  the  Council  adopted  in  Geneva  in 
June, will be adopted by the General Assembly as well, 
after  which  it  will  be  open  for  signature  in  2012.  We 
call  on  all  countries  to  support  the  adoption  of  that 
draft resolution by consensus in the General Assembly. 

No  Member  State  of  the  United  Nations  has  a 
perfect  human  rights  record.  However,  we  strongly 
believe  that  engagement  with  the  Human  Rights 
Council  and  its  machinery,  including  the  Universal 
Periodic Review, would yield better results for Member 
States,  as  the  Council  has  the  potential  to  assist 
countries on a number of the challenges that they face. 
With that in mind, the Maldives was in the core group 
of  countries  that  called  for  the  establishment  of  new 
special procedures on the freedom of assembly and on 
laws 
that  discriminate  against  women,  a  special 
procedure  on  truth,  justice  and  reconciliation,  and, 
lastly,  the  establishment  of  the  Special  Rapporteur  on 
the situation of human rights in the Islamic Republic of 
Iran. 

On the issue of Palestine, the Maldives continues 
to extend its unwavering support for the creation of an 
independent State of Palestine, living side by side and 
at peace with the State of Israel. We remain extremely 
concerned about the human rights situation in Gaza and 
the  fate  of  the  Palestinian  people  suffering  under  the 
Israeli blockade. We call upon all parties concerned to 
take  on  board  the  recommendations  contained  in  the 
report  of  the  Independent  International  Fact-Finding 
Mission  on  the  Gaza  Conflict  (see  A/64/490,  annex), 
and to take immediate measures to protect the rights of 
all Palestinian people. 

Domestically,  we  have  continued  our  own 
processes  of  establishing  and  strengthening  critical 
human  rights  institutions.  While  we  are  proud  of  the 
progress  that  we  have  made,  we  recognize  the  steps 
that  need  to  be  taken  to  promote  and  protect  the  full 
rights of all our citizens. As a priority, we must ensure 
that  we  have  a  functioning  independent  judiciary  that 
11-57707 

29 

to 
the  betterment  of 
A/66/PV.49 

understands  its  role  as  a  protector  of  the  rule  of  law 
and human rights. 

We must also continue to appoint and to elect an 
increasing  number  of  women  to  all  branches  of  the 
judiciary and to areas of the public and private sectors. 
In  addition,  we  must  provide  our  youth  with  the 
education,  opportunity  and  proper  social  institutions, 
so as to ensure that they receive the necessary tools to 
contribute 
and 
society 
understanding of the universality of human rights. 
In  the  coming  year,  the  Maldives  would  like  to 

see a continued focus on the human rights situations in 
the  emerging  democracies  in  the  Middle  East,  the 
achievement  of  greater  equality  for  women  and 
stronger protection of the rights of the child. 

In  that  regard,  we  stand  ready  to  lend  our 
assistance and to extend our continued commitment to 
improving  human  rights  globally.  We  look  forward  to 
continuing  that  work  with  great  optimism,  as  we  see 
democracy  and  a  greater  recognition  of  human  rights 
spread throughout the world. 
Mr. Haniff (Malaysia): The General Assembly, in 

its  resolution  60/251  of  15  March  2006,  decided  that 
the Human Rights Council should review its work and 
functioning  within  five  years  of  its  establishment  and 
report  to  the  General  Assembly.  Pursuant  to  the 
mandate 
resolution  A/HRC/12/1, 
Malaysia  was  delighted  to  note  the  commencement  of 
an  open-ended  intergovernmental  working  group  to 
review the work and functioning of the Council and the 
commendable  efforts  of  the  President  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council 
informal 
consultations  on  26  May,  30 August  and  6  September 
2010, respectively, to further delineate the process and 
the modalities of the review. 

The  review  process,  which  was  convened  in  two 
separate  sessions  in  October  2010  and  February  2011, 
was aimed at strengthening the Council in its ability to 
protect and promote human rights. The review process 
therefore  attempted  to  improve  various  aspects  of  the 
Council’s  work, 
the  Universal  Periodic 
Review, special procedures, the Human Rights Council 
Advisory  Committee,  the  complaints  procedures,  the 
agenda  of  and  framework  for  a  programme  of  work, 
and  the  Council’s  methods  of  work  and  rules  of 
procedure. 
in  holding  open-ended 
authorized  by 
including 
of 
rights 
issues, 
to 
human 
and  operationalized 

My  delegation  wishes  to  make  some  comments 
on  the  Universal  Periodic  Review  and  the  special 
procedures. Allow  me,  first,  to  commend  some  of  the 
encouraging  assessments  of  and  recommendations  for 
the  focus  and  modalities  of  the  Review.  Given  the 
complexity 
the 
recommendation to extend the review cycle to four and 
a  half  years,  and  with  the  existing  resources  and 
workload, is indeed welcome. In that regard, Malaysia 
notes  with  appreciation  the  recommendation  that  the 
Universal  Periodic  Review  Voluntary  Trust  Fund  to 
facilitate  the  participation  of  States,  established  by 
Human  Rights  Council  resolution  6/17,  should  be 
strengthened 
encourage 
significant  participation  of  developing  countries, 
particularly  the  least  developed  countries  and  small 
island developing States, in their reviews.  

In  the  area  of  special  procedures,  in  line  with 
Council  resolution  5/2,  States  should  cooperate  with 
and  assist  special  procedures  in  the  performance  of 
their  tasks,  and  it  is  incumbent  upon  mandate  holders 
to  exercise  their  functions  in  accordance  with  their 
mandates and in compliance with the code of conduct. 
As  enshrined  in  the  Paris  Principles,  the  integrity  and 
the 
independence  of 
principles 
and 
accountability are integral to ensuring a robust system 
of  special  procedures  that  will  enhance  the  Council’s 
capacity  to  address  human  rights  situations  on  the 
ground. 

the  special 
We 
procedures  in  fostering  a  constructive  dialogue  with 
States.  By  the  same  token,  we  would  encourage  the 
special  procedures  with  country-specific  mandates  to 
closely  examine 
internal 
situation in order to provide reports that would help to 
improve  the  internal  human  rights  situations,  while 
taking into consideration the views of the majority. 

In  Malaysia’s  view,  the  purpose  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  review  is  to  enhance  the  Council’s 
effectiveness and efficiency in discharging its mandate. 
That  requires  achieving  consensus  on  practical  and 
realistic  outcomes.  Malaysia  notes  with  appreciation 
that  the  review  process  is  a  continuous  effort,  and  the 
review  is  the  first  step  in  a  continuing  journey.  In 
Malaysia’s view, the Council should continue its efforts 
to become more responsive to that quest, which reflects 
the determination to seize the opportunity of the review 
to  streamline  the  Council’s  work  and  maintain  and 
the  special  procedures  and 
cooperation, 
the  concerned  country’s 
take  note  of 
the  work  of 
transparency 
of 
30 

11-57707 
Sihasak 
Phuangketkeow, 


increase its relevance to the human rights situation on 
the ground. 

Lastly, Malaysia fully supports the holistic goals 
of  the  review  process  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
which  aims  to  contribute  to  the  betterment  of  human 
rights.  It  is  our  utmost  hope  that  the  outcome  of  the 
review  process  will  be  geared  to  maintaining  the 
principles  of  objectivity,  inclusiveness,  non-politicization, 
non-confrontation  and,  above  all,  avoiding  double 
standards and ensuring the equal and fair participation 
of  all  States,  which  should  remain  the  fundamental 
requisite of this State-driven process. 
Mr. Lanlehin (Nigeria): The Nigerian delegation 

warmly  welcomes  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  Ambassador  Laura  Dupuy  Lasserre,  to  New 
York for this important event — the presentation of the 
report  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  (A/66/53  and 
Add.1). We  commend and  thank Ambassador Lasserre 
for her astute leadership of the Human Rights Council, 
just  as  we  commend  and  thank  her  predecessor, 
Ambassador 
his 
contributions to advancing the work of the Council. We 
acknowledge the fact that part of this report relates to 
the time period when Ambassador Phuangketkeow was 
in office.  

We  associate  ourselves  with  the  statement  made 
earlier by the representative of the United Republic of 
Tanzania on behalf of the African Group. 
Nigeria,  as  a  democratic  country,  attaches  great 

importance 
and 
fundamental freedoms, not only within our country but 
across  the  world.  It  is  for  this  reason  that  we  are 
actively  engaged  with  the  Human  Rights  Council  and 
interested  in  seeing  the  Council  achieve  the  mandate 
entrusted  to  it  by  the  General  Assembly,  which  is  to 
promote and protect fundamental human rights. 

the  Council’s 
substantial  efforts  towards  achieving  its  mandate. The 
fact  that  it  meets  in  three  annual  regular  sessions,  as 
well as special sessions, allows it to devote attention to 
global  human  rights  issues  in  a  timely  and  effective 
manner.  Its  various  special  procedures  are  also 
significant  in  that  regard.  The  wide  range  of  issues 
contained  in  the  Council’s  report  and  even  its  sheer 
volume  reflect  the  complexity  and  multiplicity  of 
issues that the Council has dealt with. 
for  human 
is  pleased 
to  note 
Nigeria 
respect 
rights 
for 
to 
A/66/PV.49
for 
two 
look  forward 

We urge that the work of the Council continue to 
be  guided  by  resolution  60/251  and  solidly  grounded 
on the fundamental principles underpinning the Vienna 
Declaration and Programme of Action on human rights. 
While  we  see  the  Council  as  a  unique  tool  for  the 
protection  and promotion  of  all human  rights,  be they 
civil,  political,  economic,  social  or  cultural,  we  also 
hold  the  view  that  a  focus  on  economic,  social  and 
cultural  rights  might  serve  as  the  Council’s  own 
contribution to assisting States to attain the Millennium 
Development Goals. 
The  Nigerian  delegation  would  like  to  commend 

the  Human  Rights  Council 
important 
achievements, namely, the completion of the first cycle 
of  the  Universal  Periodic  Review  (UPR)  and  the 
conclusion  of  the  review  process  on  the  work  and 
functioning  of  the  Human  Rights  Council.  The  UPR 
has  so  far  proven  to  be  quite  successful.  It  is  quite 
remarkable  that  since  the  first  session  of  the Working 
Group  on  the  Universal  Periodic  Review  in  February 
2008,  this  mechanism  has  attracted  100  per  cent 
participation  by  States.  We 
the 
commencement  of  the  second  cycle  of  the  UPR,  and 
we  expect  it  to  reinforce  the  importance  of  the  UPR 
mechanism  as  a  means  of  promoting  and  protecting 
human rights across the world. 

Nigeria is pleased to note the substantial increase 
in the number of standing invitations issued to special 
procedures and the growing number of States ratifying 
the  core  human  rights  instruments.  Nigeria  welcomes 
the adoption in Geneva of the outcome of the review of 
the work and functioning of the Human Rights Council 
and  the  subsequent  endorsement  of  the  document  by 
the General Assembly in June. 

Nigeria  would  like  to  acknowledge  the  fact  that 
people  across  the  world  expect  the  United  Nations  to 
protect  their  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms. 
We  see  evidence  of  that  in  the  active  participation  of 
non-governmental  organizations 
the 
activities  of  the  Human  Rights  Council.  We  welcome 
the  Council’s  engagement  with  NGOs  as  a  way  of 
enabling the voice of the people to be heard. 

the 
importance  of  States’  cooperation  in  advancing  the 
work  of  the  Human  Rights  Council.  We  seize  this 
opportunity  to  affirm  our  unwavering  commitment  to 
cooperate with all States in that regard.  
Finally,  we  would 
to  underscore 
(NGOs) 
like 
in 
to 
11-57707 

31 

A/66/PV.49 

Mr.  Errázuriz  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 

delegation welcomes the presentation to the Assembly 
by  the  President  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
Ambassador  Laura  Dupuy  Lasserre  of  Uruguay.  It  is 
the  first  time  that  the  President  of  the  Council  has 
personally  done  that.  That  is  a  direct  result  of  the 
review process of the Council that was approved by the 
Assembly in June.  

Chile  congratulates  the  President  of  the  Council, 
Ambassador  Dupuy  Lasserre,  on  her  leading  of  the 
Council’s  work.  Her  presidency,  and  through  her,  that 
of  her  country,  reflects  the  international  community’s 
recognition of Uruguay’s important contribution in the 
area of human rights.  

Chile  has  actively  participated  in  the  review  of 
the Human Rights Council in both Geneva and in New 
York.  At  both  venues,  we  proposed  that  the  Council 
should have resources sufficient to be able to fulfil its 
functions  promptly  and  effectively.  In 
that  way, 
depending on the urgency of a particular crisis, it will 
be  well  positioned  either  to  make  a  difference  on  the 
ground or to carry out its normal functions as required 
by the international community. 

Today  we  heard  from  the  President  that  the 
Council  needs  more  funds  in  order  to  function  better, 
especially for the conference services needed to handle  

the  flow  of  national  reports  submitted  as  part  of  the 
Universal  Periodic  Review.  The  presidency  of  the 
Human Rights Council can count on Chile’s support.  

In  her  report,  the  Council  President  detailed  the 
activities carried out by the Council over the past year, 
not  only  during  its  regular  sessions  to  receive  reports 
under the Universal Periodic Review process, but also 
during its special sessions and commissions of inquiry. 
Those activities were noteworthy for their dispatch and 
for  dealing  with  specific  situations,  and  they  made  a 
difference.  

The  most  important  aspects  of  the  human  rights 
architecture, in particular of the special procedures, are 
the 
its  senior 
officials,  as  well  as  the  Council’s  non-selective  and 
non-discriminatory approach. All of those aspects must 
underpin the Council’s work in deciding when it needs 
to  set  up  a  special  procedure  in  a  given  situation.  We 
are sure that under Ms. Lasserre’s guidance the Council 
will proceed in the same manner. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker  in  the  debate  on  this  item. The Assembly  has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 64. 

  The meeting rose at 6.25 p.m. 
independence  and 
impartiality  of 
32 

11-57707 
