
A/66/PV.12
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

12th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 21 September 2011, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 





  The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m. 

Address by Mr. Porfirio Lobo Sosa, President of the 
Republic of Honduras 

address by the President of the Republic of Honduras. 

The  President:  The  Assembly  will  hear  an 
Mr. Porfirio Lobo Sosa, President of the Republic 
of  Honduras,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Porfirio  Lobo  Sosa, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Honduras,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly. 
President  Lobo  Sosa  (spoke  in  Spanish):  For 

Honduras,  it  is  a  source  of  great  satisfaction  to 
participate  in  this  important  session  of  the  General 
Assembly. On behalf of the Honduran people, I should 
like  at  the  outset  to  express  our  great  pleasure  at  the 
re-appointment  of  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  for  another  term 
as  Secretary-General.  I  also  wish  to  convey  to  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth 
session,  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss,  my  greatest  respect  for  the 
contribution he made to this global forum through the 
fruitful  work  achieved  under  his  leadership.  We  also 
congratulate  Mr.  Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser  upon  his 
election as President of the General Assembly. 

become the newest Member of the United Nations. 
I congratulate the State of South Sudan on having 
It 
timely 
is  also 

to  reaffirm  my  decisive 
commitment  as  a  leader  to  this  Organization,  which 
represents the best forum for addressing and resolving 
the  problems  facing  the  world  in  the  quest  for  the 
common welfare of humankind based on the principles 
enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  I 
reaffirm our  commitment to the Universal Declaration 
of Human Rights, and in particular to the principle that 
we  are  all  free  and  equal  in  dignity  and  rights.  This 
concept  includes  peoples  and  nations  alike.  Over  and 
above  geopolitical  interests,  the  self-determination  of 
peoples is inviolable and inalienable. All peoples have 
the  right  to  their  own  territory,  cultural  identity  and 
traditions. 
In  this  context,  my  Government  has  recognized 

Palestine  as  a  State  and  endorses 
legitimate 
aspiration  to  become  a  full  member  in  the  concert  of 
nations.  Full  security  for  the  State  of  Israel  and  full 
international  recognition  for  Palestine  are  essential 
conditions  for  a  comprehensive  negotiated  two-State 
solution providing for strong and lasting peace through 
mutual  understanding.  If  we  want  peace,  we  must 
recall that peace is based on respect not only for human 
rights, but also for the rights of peoples and nations. 

With regard to my country, Honduras, I must say 
that  the  political  crises  it  suffered  and  the  coup  d’état 
of  28  June  2009  led  to  a  deterioration  in  the  human 
rights  situation.  Overcoming  it  is  one  of  our  highest 
priorities. Since I took office in January 2010, my task 
has  been  to  build  unity  and  reconciliation  among  the 
Honduran  people  through  peacebuilding  founded  on 
social  justice.  That  process  of  reconciliation  and 
its 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-50702 (E) 
*1150702* 

A/66/PV.12 

democracy-building  in  our  country  has  enjoyed  the 
constructive support of the international community as 
a whole.  

I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  my  particular 
thanks  for  the  mediation  efforts  of  Presidents  Juan 
Manuel  Santos  Calderón  of  Colombia  and  Hugo 
Chávez Frías of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, 
which  led  to  the  signing  of  the  Cartagena Agreement, 
which in turn facilitated the return of Honduras to the 
Organization of American States.  
We have demonstrated by our actions that there is 

no State policy to violate human rights in Honduras; on 
the  contrary,  we  work  every  day  to  promote  a  culture 
of respect for human rights based on ongoing dialogue 
with  all  sectors  of  society,  with  special  attention  to 
those  sectors  that  have  generally  been  deprived  of  the 
right  to  participate.  We  are  building  a  participatory 
democracy,  derived  from  the  principle  that  all  social 
groups have the full and legitimate right to take part in 
our history.  

We have a secretariat for justice and human rights 
to advise on relevant policies. With the participation of 
civil 
is 
enthusiastically  working  on  developing  our  country’s 
first  public  human  rights  policy  and  a  national  action 
plan  on  human  rights.  It 
the 
recommendations  made  by  the  Human  Rights  Council 
to  Honduras  during  the  Universal  Periodic  Review.  In 
line  with  those  aspirations,  in  July  our  Truth  and 
Reconciliation  Commission  —  having  worked 
in 
absolute legitimacy and transparency — completed its 
fully independent mandate and presented the people of 
Honduras with its report and recommendations so as to 
ensure  that  such  things  never  happen  again  and  to 
foment  reconciliation within the Honduran  family. We 
are  taking  the  necessary  steps  to  implement  those 
recommendations.  

At the same time, faced with the global crisis that 
resulted 
serious  problems 
in  developed 
economies,  we  have  met  with 
trade  unions, 
entrepreneurs,  workers,  farmers,  civil  society  and 
political parties to reach an overall national agreement 
that will enable us to face the challenges that the crisis 
created  in  our  country.  Our  Honduran  response  has 
been  to  propose  a  social  pact  to  establish  conditions 
propitious 
employment, 
appropriate 
and  productivity.  The 
national plan for the next 28 years is under way. We are 
for 
economic 
remuneration 
is  also  following 
organizations, 
secretariat 
growth, 
from 
society 
the 

in  shark  fins  and  put  an  end 
empowering  our  citizens.  The  optimum  Government 
we can shape is comprised of a people who themselves 
want  to  develop  within  a  framework  of  equitable 
economic growth. 

Alongside  that  overall  national  agreement,  all 
sectors  and  stakeholders  in  the  field  of  education  are 
reaching  agreement  on  wide-reaching  educational 
reform  in  Honduras  to  propel  a  dynamic  education 
administration  guaranteeing  equal  opportunity  for  all, 
especially those who have the least. 
In the social sphere, we have a family assistance 

programme  with  conditional  monetary  benefits.  More 
than  400,000  families  have  received  such  payments, 
and  by  2013  we  hope  to  reach  600,000  families, 
representing  50  per  cent  of  families  in  Honduras. The 
condition is that children go to school and that parents 
attend child-nutrition programmes.  

In September 2010, along with President Johnson 
Toribiong  of  Palau,  we  called  upon  heads  of  State  of 
United Nations Member States to save sharks, stop the 
traffic 
to  global 
overfishing  of  the  species.  I  repeat  that  plea  with  the 
same passion today.  

Although  our  country  does  not  contribute  much 
to  greenhouse  gas  emissions,  we  have  signed  many 
international  treaties  and  conventions  that  aim  to 
guarantee  the  planet’s  security  and  climate  for  its 
inhabitants  in  the  context  of  the  clean  development 
mechanism  under  the  Kyoto  Protocol.  Beyond  those 
important  conventions, 
the 
Rotterdam  Convention  on  the  Prior  Informed  Consent 
Procedure  for  Certain  Hazardous  Chemicals  and 
Pesticides in International Trade.  

Honduras  reiterates  its  strong  approval  of  all 
measures to protect and conserve natural resources and 
the  environment,  based  on  the  principles  agreed  upon 
20 years ago. We ask the States Member of the United 
Nations to renew those past commitments and to draw 
up national policies so that we can build our capacities 
and establish mechanisms that respond to the needs of 
the population. 

Although 
itself,  my 
Government  has  made 
in 
promoting the just historical claims, rights and profile 
of  indigenous  peoples  and  people  of African  descent. 
In accordance with the Durban Declaration and Plan of 
Action,  we  have  adopted  public  policies  to  work 
today  we  will  sign 
significant  progress 
is  not  enough 
in 
it 
2 

11-50702 
of 
the 
our 
ratification 


towards  those  commitments.  Among  them  I  would 
mention 
International 
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial 
Discrimination,  the  institution  of  an  African  Heritage 
Month in Honduras, and the creation and inauguration 
of  a  Ministry  of  Indigenous  Peoples  and  People  of 
African Descent.  

I  note  that  the  United  Nations,  through  General 
Assembly  resolution  64/169,  proclaimed  2011  the 
International  Year  for  People  of  African  Descent.  In 
that context, civil society members of African descent, 
in  cooperation  with 
the  Organization  for  Ethnic 
Community Development convened and celebrated the 
First  World  Summit  of  People  of  African  Descent  in 
August,  amply  supported  by  my  Government,  other 
Governments, 
international  partners  and  United 
Nations  system  bodies.  One  of  my  Government’s 
aspirations  is  to  complete  our  constitutional  reform  to 
define  Honduras  as  a  multi-ethnic,  multicultural 
country.  

My  Government  joins  its  voice  to  those  of 
millions of people of African descent in calling for the 
United  Nations  to  institute  a  decade  for  people  of 
African  descent  beginning 
in  2012,  create  a 
development  fund  for  people  of  African  descent,  and 
establish  a  permanent  forum  for  peoples  of  African 
descent within the United Nations. 
Before concluding, I would like to raise an issue 

that 
important 
is  one  of 
challenges that our region faces: citizen insecurity. The 
most recent analysis carried out by the United Nations 
Office  on  Drugs  and  Crime,  the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme  and  the  World  Bank  show 
that  Central  America  has  become  the  region  in  the 
world with the highest levels of violence and organized 
crime. Their economic impact has escalated in the past 
decade to reach, in the case of Honduras, a level close 
to 10 per cent of our gross domestic product.  

transnational  organized  crime, 
primarily evident in the commission of crimes such as 
drug trafficking, kidnapping, murder, money and asset 
laundering,  people  trafficking,  arms  trafficking,  the 
commercial sexual exploitation of women and minors, 
among  other  crimes,  are  a  serious  threat  to  our 
possibilities  to  create  well-being.  Without  security, 
there is no economic growth or development. 
The  evidence  shows  that  many  of  those  crimes, 

from the organized crime and lack of security to which 
the  greatest  and  most 
Violence  and 
A/66/PV.12
launched 
they  give  rise  and  that  prevail  in  our  societies,  have 
their roots in the use and trafficking of drugs. Owing to 
their  very  nature  and  to  the  sums  of  money  involved, 
they have a serious impact on our societies and add to 
the  erosion  of  our  system  of  values.  They  steal  our 
young people, destroy conviviality and community life 
and  create  parallel  economic  systems  that  are  true 
enclaves of crime, violence and degradation.  

Today,  the  countries  of  the  region  invest  huge 
amounts  of  money  in  combating  the  production  and 
trafficking  of  drugs.  However,  practically  the  only 
instances  in  which  the  production  and  trafficking  of 
drugs significantly drop in a region occur as a result of 
a  change  in  routes  or  production  being  in  other  areas. 
Given  that  demand  in  developing  countries  has  not 
decreased,  the  strategy  that  we  follow  in  the  region 
today, in the best case scenario, has only a partial and 
limited  impact  on  the  trafficking,  transport  and  use  of 
drugs.  

For  that  reason,  we  note  that,  first  of  all,  a  pilot 
project that  we have put to the  United  Nations should 
be 
the 
investigation and trial of organized crime in Honduras. 
Secondly, we need to gather together all the strategies 
that  were  discussed  at  the  International  Conference  in 
Support  of  the  Central  America  Security  Strategy  on 
22 and 23 June in Guatemala. We should also point out, 
and  it  must  be  reaffirmed,  that  consumer  countries 
must  act  bravely  and  resolutely  in  order  to  reduce  or 
eliminate the use of and the trade in drugs because we 
must  realize  that  without  that,  it  will  be  very  difficult 
for our societies to end the scourge. We  must succeed 
in aligning our strategies so as to end the drug scourge 
and organized crime.  

I would like to end by expressing my best wishes 
for this sixty-sixth session to meet the expectations of 
all  Member  States,  which,  I  am  sure,  are  founded  on 
the principle of the sovereign equality of States.  
the  General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Honduras for the statement he has just made. 

Mr. Porfirio Lobo Sosa, President of the Republic 
of  Honduras,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  capacity  for 
to  strengthen 

11-50702 

3 


The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
A/66/PV.12 

Address by Mr. Viktor Yanukovych, President  
of Ukraine 

address by the President of Ukraine. 

I  am  convinced 
Mr. Viktor Yanukovych, President of Ukraine, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Viktor  Yanukovych, 
President  of  Ukraine,  and  to  invite  him to  address  the 
Assembly. 
President  Yanukovych  (spoke  in  Ukrainian; 

English  interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  I 
sincerely  congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nassir 
Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  on  his  election  to  the  post  of 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth 
session. 
that  his  considerable 
experience  will  contribute  to  the  achievement  of 
significant  results  on  behalf  of  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations and the entire Organization. 
This year, the great family of States Members of the 

United Nations was enriched by a new 193rd Member. On 
behalf of Ukraine, I would like to express our support 
for the Government and people of South Sudan in the 
process  of  State-building,  and  to  assure  them  of 
Ukraine’s  readiness  to  develop  equal  and  mutually 
beneficial  cooperation  with  a  new  member  of  the 
international community. 
This  is  a  special  session  given  the  number  of  high-

level  meetings  devoted  to  issues  of  a  global  scale  — 
nuclear  safety  and  security, 
the  prevention  of 
non-communicable  diseases,  desertification  and  land 
degradation, racism and discrimination. 

During this session, the delegation of Ukraine has 
actively  participated  in  discussions  on  the  issues  that 
are  most  topical  for  our  State  —  nuclear  security  and 
disease control. With regard to the theme of the general 
debate,  “The  role  of  mediation  in  the  settlement  of 
disputes”,  I  note  that  the  issue  of  preventing  armed 
conflict, and the loss of human lives and the suffering 
triggered  by  them,  was  one  of  the  cornerstones  of 
Ukraine’s first membership, as an independent State, of 
the Security Council in 2000-2001. 

the 
regional  and  international  levels,  from  the  frozen 
conflicts 
to  a  peaceful 
Preventive  diplomacy  and  mediation  at 
the  post-Soviet  space 
in 
support  all  constructive 
settlement  in  the  Middle  East  and  the  restoration  of 
stability  in  North  Africa,  remain  an  integral  part  of 
Ukraine’s  foreign  policy. We  pursue  that  policy  in  the 
United  Nations  Peacebuilding  Commission,  and  will 
continue  to  do  so  during  Ukraine’s  presidency  of  the 
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe in 
2013. 

Regrettably,  conflict  prevention  efforts  are  often 
not effective enough, and conflict settlement takes too 
long. Our main duty in such cases is to save lives and 
to alleviate the fate of civilians who find themselves in 
danger. Ukraine will always provide help to those who 
suffer. In addition to humanitarian efforts, we are ready 
to 
international  peace 
initiatives and preventive measures. 

We  believe  that,  in  armed  confrontations,  top 
priority must be given to respect for human rights, first 
of  all  by  ensuring  the  safety  of  civilians.  Guided  by 
this principle, Ukraine was among the first to carry out 
a  humanitarian  mission  in  Libya  at  the  beginning  of 
this  year.  The  Ukrainian  amphibious  landing  ship 
Konstantin  Olshansky  was  used  to  evacuate  almost 
200 citizens of 20 nationalities, more than half of them 
women and children, from the conflict zone. 
just  celebrated 
twentieth 

the 
anniversary  of 
independence.  Today,  we  are 
assessing  the  road  we  have  travelled  and  rethinking 
some  important  moments  in  our  modern  history  in 
order to find effective solutions to the issues that have 
remained unresolved for many years. It is precisely for 
that  purpose  that  I  have  initiated  sweeping  reforms  in 
the 
economic 
transformations  and  at 
the 
further  strengthening 
democratic system and the rule of law in Ukraine.  
in 

The  foundations  of  all  reform  processes 
Ukraine  are  the  fundamental  democratic  values  that 
Ukrainians share with other Europeans. That is why the 
guiding  principles  we  have  determined 
the 
modernization of the country are directly related to the 
ambitious 
future 
Association  Agreement  between  Ukraine  and 
the 
European Union. 
The twentieth anniversary of our independence is 

only an instant in historical terms, yet the roots of our 
statehood can be traced back thousands of years. Since 
ancient times, Ukraine has been developing a European 
spirit  and  culture,  while  cherishing  the  traditions  of 
tolerance and inter-ethnic and intercultural harmony in 
Ukraine  has 
its 
objectives 
contained 
country, 
aimed 
social 
and 
for 
at 
in 
the 
4 

11-50702 


our  society. We  believe  that  straightforward  and  frank 
dialogue  based  on  universal  values  is  the  only  way  to 
find  a  common  language  in  each  country  and  in 
international relations alike. 

Ukraine’s  position  on  the  need  to  uphold  human 
rights at all times and everywhere as the highest value 
has  always  been  crystal  clear.  Examples  of  that 
commitment are seen in Ukraine’s activities during its 
two terms of membership in the Human Rights Council 
from  June  2006  to  June  2011.  We  will  not  lessen  our 
attention to this subject  and are planning to rejoin the 
Council in 2018. 

As  Chair  of  the  Committee  of  Ministers  of  the 
Council  of  Europe  from  May  to  November  this  year, 
Ukraine  is  focused  on  the  issues  of  children’s  rights, 
the  development  of  local  self-governance  and  the  rule 
of  law.  We  are  convinced  that  the  rule  of  law  and 
respect  for  human  rights,  as  the  bases  for  building  a 
society,  are  needed  to  counter  many  contemporary 
threats, including the complex challenges of terrorism. 

Recently, the world shuddered from the attack on 
the  United  Nations  building  in  Nigeria,  which  offered 
yet  further  proof  that  the  ugly  face  of  terrorism  is 
becoming  more  repulsive  and  brazen.  The  blow  was 
struck  directly  against  our  Organization,  which  is  of 
particular  concern  and  requires  increased  security  for 
United Nations premises. 

As  one  of  the  State  initiators  of  the  Convention 
on  the  Safety  of  United  Nations  and  Associated 
Personnel, and as a party to all universal anti-terrorist 
conventions  currently  in  force,  Ukraine  resolutely 
condemns any manifestations of terrorism. We believe 
that all terrorist acts, regardless of who commits them 
and  where  or  why  they  are  committed,  violate  a 
fundamental  human  right  —  the  right  to  life  —  and 
therefore  constitute  a  crime  against  humanity.  I  pay 
tribute to the memory of those killed 10 years ago, on 
11  September  2001,  as  well  as  to  all  other  victims  of 
terrorist attacks. 

significant 
contribution of Ukraine to the peaceful coexistence of 
humankind.  I  refer  not  only 
to  our  voluntarily 
abandoning nuclear arms and large stockpiles of highly 
enriched uranium. The awareness of the global scale of 
the  effects  of  the  Chernobyl  disaster  was  the  impetus 
for  my  initiative  to  convene  the  Kyiv  Summit  on  the 
Safe  and  Innovative  Use  of  Nuclear  Energy  in  April. 
The  Summit  enabled  us  to  enhance  international 
sincerely  proud  of 
I  am 
the 
A/66/PV.12
in  a 
Ukraine 
is  actively  participating 
cooperation  in  strengthening  nuclear  safety  and  in 
responding adequately to accidents and emergencies. I 
sincerely thank all the participants in the Kyiv Summit 
and  all  of  the  donor  countries  that  announced  their 
contributions to Chernobyl projects. 

We  also  welcome  the  holding  of  the  high-level 
meeting  on  nuclear  safety  and  security,  scheduled  for 
tomorrow. We are committed to jointly working further 
on this issue. Our country has unique experience in the 
rehabilitation of the area and the population victimized 
by  the  Chernobyl  disaster.  We  are  ready  to  share  this 
experience.  Ukraine  consistently  supports  efforts  to 
ensure  gradual  and  irreversible  nuclear  disarmament 
for  the  purpose  of  completely  eliminating  nuclear 
weapons  from  the  world.  We  continue  to  insist  that 
security  assurances  for  non-nuclear  and  non-aligned 
States  should  be  enshrined 
legally  binding 
international  instrument.  I  urge  the  leaders  of  other 
States  to  consciously  follow  the  example  of  Ukraine 
and  its  practical  actions  to  promote  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation. 

in  United 
Nations  efforts  to  maintain  international  peace  and 
security. Throughout its 20 years of independence, over 
34,000 Ukraine’s soldiers and police have taken part in 
peacekeeping  missions  in  more  than  20  operations 
under  the  United  Nations  mandate.  Ukraine  is  a 
dedicated  supporter  of  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
the 
reform, 
Organization’s 
existing 
shortcomings.  Utmost  attention  should  be  paid  to 
ensuring  the  mobility  of  aviation  resources  in  United 
Nations  peacekeeping,  as  well  as  to  enhancing  legal 
protection  for  Blue  Helmets.  We  are  grateful  to 
Member States for their support of Ukraine’s initiatives 
in this area, and we hope for effective joint work to be 
undertaken in this direction. 
One  year  ago,  we  held  a  High-level  Plenary 

Meeting  on 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
Ukraine  is  committed  to  its  obligations  in  achieving 
national development goals. Among our main priorities 
are  poverty  reduction,  ensuring  quality  education, 
improving  health  and 
environmental  protection, 
reducing  child  mortality,  curbing 
the  spread  of 
HIV/AIDS  and  tuberculosis,  and  ensuring  gender 
equality.  

it 
Working  on  today’s  immediate  tasks,  we  believe 
the 
to  strengthen 
eliminate 
to  pay  greater  attention 
the  goal  of  which 
is 
capacity 
and 
is  necessary 
to 
11-50702 

5 
A/66/PV.12 

increasingly  acute 
issue  of  climate  change  and 
environmental  protection.  We  endorse  the  idea  of 
creating  an  effective  international  mechanism  for  the 
environmental  protection  of  Earth  as  our  common 
planet  —  a  global  environmental  organization  with 
universal  membership  functioning  on  a  permanent 
basis.  We  also  call  upon  Member  States  to  study  the 
idea  of  developing  a  new  universal  instrument  that 
could  serve  as  a  so-called  environmental  constitution, 
give  all  countries  clear  guidelines  from  the  cultural 
perspective, and identify compulsory principles for the 
sustainable  development  of  the  global  green  economy 
and the environmental safety of the planet. 

We  consider  it  necessary  to  work  on  improving 
global energy security. We encourage the development, 
under  United  Nations  coordination,  of  an  effective 
multilateral cooperation mechanism aimed at achieving 
development goals in the energy field. 

In overcoming the impact of the global economic 
crisis,  we  must  avoid  new  challenges  to  the  financial 
sector that affect trade and investment. It is our belief 
that  economic  and  social  development  should  be 
facilitated by the further liberalization of trade. 

In  recent  years,  we  have  come  to  see  how 
vulnerable  any  one  nation  can  be  to  various  security 
threats  and  natural  or  manmade  disasters.  All  these 
the  need  for  effective 
examples  have  shown  us 
international  mechanisms 
for 
such 
phenomena. It is high time that the United Nations and 
its  specialized  agencies  seriously  strengthened  their 
role  in  coordinating  international  efforts  aimed  at 
preventing, responding to and overcoming the impacts 
of  catastrophes  and  severe  humanitarian  crises.  We 
look  forward  to  strengthening  the  specialized  United 
Nations  agencies  and  improving  their  effectiveness. 
Ukraine stands ready to continue its active involvement 
in the practical humanitarian efforts of the World Food 
Programme.  A  few  days  ago,  Ukraine  decided  to 
provide,  through  the  United  Nations,  humanitarian 
assistance  in  the  form  of  wheat  for  the  purpose  of 
combating hunger in the Horn of Africa. 
Ukraine  supports  the  greater  involvement  of  the 

General  Assembly 
and 
strengthening  its  voice  in  addressing  a  wide  range  of 
global  issues.  The  modern  world  is  presenting  the 
United  Nations  with  new,  complex  and  increasingly 
difficult  issues.  We  will  not  be  able  to  improve  the 
effectiveness  of  our  joint  work,  however,  without 
international 
combating 
life 
in 

that  at 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  Organization  and  its 
principal bodies, including the Security Council.  

Ukraine  is  open  to  discussing  all  progressive 
concepts of reform that can bring Member States to the 
broadest  possible  agreement. The  consideration  of  the 
interests  of  every  regional  group  is  an  indispensable 
component  of  the  process  of  reforming  the  Council. 
Ukraine  believes 
least  one  additional 
non-permanent  seat  of  an  expanded  Security  Council 
should  be  given  to  the  Group  of  Eastern  European 
States. 

I am confident that the sixty-sixth session of the 
General Assembly  will  strengthen  the  United  Nations 
in  the  face  of  global  challenges  and  threats,  reliably 
guaranteed  by  our  strong  political  commitment  and  a 
clear  vision  of  our  common  goals.  I  believe  in  our 
shared success. 

the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of Ukraine for 
the statement he has just made. 

Mr. Viktor Yanukovych, President of Ukraine, was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 


Address by Mr. Fernando Lugo Méndez, President of 
the Republic of Paraguay 

address by the President of the Republic of Paraguay. 

The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
Mr.  Fernando  Lugo  Méndez,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Paraguay,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Fernando  Lugo  Méndez, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Paraguay,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly. 
President Lugo Méndez  (spoke in Spanish): On 

behalf of the people of Paraguay, Mr. President, I offer 
you  sincere  congratulations  on  your  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth 
session. I also thank Mr. Joseph Deiss for his laudable 
work  as  President  of 
the  previous  session,  and 
congratulate  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  on  his  re-appointment 
as  Secretary-General.  Throughout  his  tenure  at  the 
head of the Organization for the past five years, he has 
demonstrated  his  gift 
leadership  and  his 
for 
6 

11-50702 
commitment 
and 
to  world  peace 


unwavering 
international security. 

The  people  of  Paraguay  and  their  President,  in 
consonance  with  our  extraordinary  national  history, 
believe  deeply  in  the  human  being  as  the  subject  and 
end  of  and  reason  for  every  effort  designed  to  benefit 
humankind. The centrality of humans in the history of 
the  universe  in  all  their  endeavours,  interests  and 
conquests will be constantly proclaimed in this forum.  

In  order  to  begin  to  discuss  the  future  of 
humankind,  we  must  correct  mistakes  and  rethink 
paradigms 
that  for  decades,  sometimes  even  for 
centuries, have demonstrated their utter  uselessness  in 
bringing  about  change  for  good.  Restoring  men  and 
women to centre stage in the concerns of the universe 
is a fundamental step in order merely to begin to trace 
a  basic  outline  for  a  future  of  certainty  that  seeks  to 
replace  the  frustrations  of  managing  the  development 
paradigm  with  the  realities  of  a  world  in  which  well-
being is much more tangible. 

What  good  does  it  do  to  discuss  development 
plans if the goal of dignifying the human being is not 
the beginning and the end of the process? At this stage 
in history, when we are thrilled by the most incredible 
technological  achievements  capable  of  keeping  pace 
with our flights of imagination and our dreams, where 
does that leave the nightmare of starving children who 
fight  for  a  crust  of  bread,  smile  if  they  get  it  —  and 
still want to play? What benefit do we derive from the 
media  hype  about  these  great  global  and  commercial 
achievements while in complicit silence the other half 
of humanity is holding out its hand, begging for a little 
help, for the love of God? What good does it do us to 
continue supporting a way of creating happiness in the 
world that has been loudly shown to be a failure over 
and over again? 

Regions  that  enrich  the  economy  of  part  of  the 
world with the natural abundance of their waters, their 
oil, the precious stones hidden in the belly of their soil, 
continue  inexorably  to  accumulate  debt  while  their 
daily  offerings  increase  the  wealth  of  rich  societies 
every  day.  The  poor  neighbour  in  today’s  world 
possesses  riches  —  those  closer  to  the  simplicity  of 
well-being  and  happiness,  such  as  water,  food,  forests 
and  renewable  energy  —  that  are  vital  to  its  rich 
neighbours.  But  unbridled  wealth  cannot  be  the  basis 
for  political  dominion  and  certainly  not  for  wars  and 
A/66/PV.12
international  market  regulations 
military  might.  We  live  in  societies  because  our 
peoples and other human beings have mutual needs. 

Population  growth  is  a  serious  global  issue. 
Sometimes it seems as though we live in a world that, 
worse than resigning itself to poverty, resigns itself to 
inequality, to the pornographic spectacle of scandalous 
imbalances  which  reveal  the  inner  workings  of  an 
ostentatious  world  celebrating  its  shame,  as  described 
by  Gabriel  García  Márquez  in  his  tale  of  Innocent 
Eréndira  and  Her  Heartless  Grandmother.  As  long  as 
that continues, the dialogue between the rich bank that 
sustains  and  coordinates  the  world  economy  and  the 
poor  world  that  provides  the  natural  resources  will 
gradually become senseless. 

My  country’s  growth  rate  in  2010  exceeded 
15 per  cent;  but  tensions  made  efforts  to  redistribute 
that  wealth  and  reduce  inequality  more  difficult  than 
achieving the growth itself. 
I  think  that  this  is  true  all  over  the  world.  The 

United Nations needs to discuss measures to enable or 
assist Member States to work their way through fiscal 
policies  and 
that 
contribute to the stark reality of the huge fortunes that 
exist  in  the  hands  of  just  a  few  in  some  countries  as 
compared with the inequalities, droughts, humanitarian 
crises in others. 
Solidarity  is  a  ten-letter  word  that  is  fine-

sounding  but  sometimes  empty:  empty  of  free  will, 
actions  and  especially  results.  Solidarity  is  no  longer 
simply  a  moral  imperative;  it  is  a  prerequisite  for 
achieving  progress  and  combating  the  dark  side  of 
ignoring it: violence and crime. 

We  live  in  a  world  which  urgently  requires  a 
paradigm shift. And we must admit that the world is at 
a  crossroads;  because  one  discourse  that  has  been 
going on for five centuries in the name of progress and 
another  for  six  decades  in  the  name  of  development 
have only added uncertainty about any improvement in 
the  future  lot  of  broad  regions  and  thousands  of 
millions of people. 

The  unrepentant  incapability  of  the  developed 
countries to understand a very simple equation in order 
to  set  up  local  development  plans  as  local  plans  for 
development means that known errors will be repeated 
despite  the  urgent  need  for  profound,  convincing  and 
radical  rethinking  capable  of  harnessing  the  mutual 
trust  that  can  promote  progress  towards  the  only 
11-50702 

7 

in  which 
A/66/PV.12 

tangible  parameter,  the  only  valid  outcome,  the  only 
genuine  reality,  which  is  a  good  life  for  all  men  and 
women. 

Achieving  the  good  life  for  all  should  be  the 
paradigm  of  our  time.  It  clearly  entails  envisioning  a 
post-development  future 
thoughtfulness, 
objectivity  and  goodwill  coexist  in  harmony  and 
genuine  solidarity  reigns  without  delay  between  those 
in the powerful and wealthy world and those who live 
in poverty elsewhere.  
This  is  not  just  a  moral  vision.  Of  fundamental 

importance  to  progress  is  the  sharing  of  wealth.  And 
that  brings  me  to  the  main  theme  of  this  forum, 
avoiding  future  conflict  and  future  violence.  But  the 
paradigm of the good life requires plans that focus on 
the dignity of human beings and the future rather than 
on  resource  exploitation  systems  which  almost  never 
benefit the people. 
In  Latin  America  —  the  region  to  which  my 

Government is committed — we live the daily paradox 
of poverty in the midst of the best basic conditions for 
generating  wealth.  Historically,  since  colonial  times, 
our  wealth  has  followed  a  one-way  path  to  other 
regions of the world, without generating any structural 
improvements in our economies. 

We  attend  the  prestigious  world  summits  of  the 
developed countries where the lot of poor countries has 
been  debated  for  decades,  yet  we  have  had  no  luck. 
When  will  the  countries  of  Latin America  realize  that 
we  export  nature,  we  export  oxygen,  we  export  fresh 
water, we export food, we export renewable energy? It 
makes  no  sense  that  our  countries  remain  poor,  when 
we  have  so  many  assets  and  products  that  enrich  the 
rest of the world. 

Finally, on this subject, a paradigm shift to ensure 
that human beings are at the centre of world concerns 
requires  commitment  on  the  part  of  those  who  govern 
the  most  powerful  countries. We  in  turn  must  commit 
to  supporting  them  and  not  abandoning  them  if  that 
paradigm  shift  takes  place.  And  the  most  intelligent 
form  of  support  is,  as  we  have  just  mentioned,  to 
develop an awareness of what we are and the enormous 
potential with which our countries are endowed. 

Paraguay  reaffirms  its  steadfast  commitment  to 
multilateralism  based  on  a  democratic  and  egalitarian 
new  world  order,  an  order  that  will  ensure  the 
comprehensive  and  effective  development  of  our 
therefore  believes  both 
countries.  Paraguay 
in  a 
stronger  and  more  democratic  United  Nations,  as  a 
truly global organization, and in strengthening progress 
in the regional integration of peoples. For example, we 
have 
the  Union  of  South  American  Nations  — 
UNASUR  —  and  the  future  Community  of  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  States,  which  provide 
common space for nations that share a common history, 
common values and common plans for sovereignty and 
independence.  

Global  change  is  picking  up  speed.  The  still 
significant primacy of the central Powers in economic 
and  military  terms,  and  therefore  in  political  and 
cultural  terms,  is  facing  demands  for  democratization 
of the world order and progress in multilateralism. The 
financial,  energy,  social  and  environmental  crises  are 
proof of the contradictions and conflicts in the strategic 
interests of the great Powers as well as the weaknesses 
of the aid-dependent countries and those in the midst of 
development. We  believe  in  mediation  as  a  remedy  to 
overcome social injustice and as a path towards peace.  

Among  our  peoples’  demands  for  strengthened 
democracy,  we  see  the  spirit  of  the  words  of  Nelson 
Mandela  when,  in  the  past  century,  he  said  that  there 
can  be  no  democracy  with  poverty  and  no  democracy 
with  social  inequality.  That  is  why  the  theme  of  the 
sixty-sixth  session  of 
the  General  Assembly,  on 
strengthening the role of mediation in the settlement of 
disputes  by  peaceful  means,  conflict  prevention  and 
resolution, has taken on greater relevance. 

the purpose of our Organization is  

Article 1 of the United Nations Charter states that 
“to  take  effective  collective  measures  for  the 
prevention  and  removal  of  threats  to  the  peace, 
and  for  the  suppression  of  acts  of  aggression  or 
other breaches of the peace”. 
Thus, in the face of violence and today’s wars, whether 
traditional  or  silent,  short  or  long-term,  there  is  a 
demand  for  mediation  as  a  mechanism  for  peace,  as  a 
tool  to  overcome  global  social  injustice  and  thus  a 
necessary foundation for achieving international peace 
and security.  

In that context, we advocate mediation in order to 
overcome  global  social  injustice  and  both  traditional 
and  silent  wars.  It  must  be  based  on  the  shared  but 
differentiated 
countries, 
developing  and  developed,  in  order  to  guarantee  the 
responsibilities 
all 
of 
8 

11-50702 
should  adopt 
The  General  Assembly 


conditions necessary for a peaceful world that relies on 
the  comprehensive  and  effective  development  of  our 
peoples. Lastly, it must avoid ruinous hypotheses at all 
costs,  such  as  those  that  led  to  “preventive  attacks”, 
which  culminated  in  the  loss  of  many  lives,  the 
destruction  of  entire  cities  and  vital  elements  of 
universal culture, and sowed the seeds for the dreadful 
mistrust of any subsequent such initiatives. 

The  self-determination  of  peoples  should  not  be 
shaped  by  the  political  or  economic  interests  of  those 
who  oversee  global  equilibrium  with  weapons.  It  is, 
and must be, written in stone. 

Paraguay  plays  an  active  role  in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping missions. Beginning this year, after more 
than a decade of uninterrupted contributions of military 
observers,  Paraguay  will  be  contributing  a  multirole 
engineering  unit  to  the  United  Nations  Stabilization 
Mission  in  Haiti,  the  first  to  be  deployed  under  our 
national flag. 

the 
necessary reforms so as to reaffirm its inherent nature 
as a universal, democratic and equitable representative 
body.  In  this  way,  its  powers  will  be  recognized  and 
will take  precedence over  those of  other bodies in the 
Organization, such as the Security Council, in order to 
underscore 
to  overcome 
violence  and  globalized  social  injustice  and  build  the 
multipolar, democratic and egalitarian world that we so 
greatly desire. 

In  the  same  vein,  democratizing  the  Security 
Council  is  becoming  an  increasingly  urgent  task.  We 
urge the Council to fulfil its primary role of promoting 
world peace and avoiding war, which is why it must be 
reformed  and  become  more  democratic.  We  must 
accord  greater  legitimacy  to  the  Council  by  making  it 
more  representative  of 
the  new  multilateral  and 
multipolar  world  order,  and  by  gradually  doing  away 
with veto rights. 
We  must  express  our  concern,  here  before  the 

General Assembly, regarding the actions taken in Libya 
under  resolution  1973  (2011)  of  the  Security  Council 
and  in  the  context  of  the  responsibility  to  protect. We 
believe  that  the  use  of  force  must  always  be  a  last 
resort. 

That  is  why  we  are  concerned  about  the  crisis 
affecting  the  United  Nations  Security  Council,  which 
can  be  overcome  only 
its  reform  and 
the  processes 
that  help 
through 
A/66/PV.12
fulfil 
democratization.  Thus,  we  insist  and  urge  that  efforts 
continue to be made to that end so that the Council can 
once  again 
its  mission  of  guaranteeing 
international peace and security. 

In terms of foreign policy, Paraguay, as one of the 
founding  Members  of  the  Organization,  upholds  and 
reiterates  the  constitutional  principles  governing  its 
international  relations:  national  independence,  self-
determination  of  peoples,  legal  equality  of  States, 
solidarity  and  international  cooperation,  international 
protection  of  human  rights,  freedom  of  navigation  in 
international rivers, non-intervention, and condemnation of 
all forms of dictatorship, colonialism and imperialism.  

In  the  50  years  since  the  embargo  was  imposed 
on  the  people  of  Cuba,  Paraguay  has  repeatedly 
expressed its opposition to that economic, commercial 
and  financial  blockade,  as  have  the  countries  of  Latin 
America  and 
the  Caribbean.  Paraguay  has  stood 
together  with  those  countries  and  called  for  the 
immediate  lifting  of  the  embargo.  In  particular,  we 
deplore  the  impact  of  this  unjust  blockade  on  the 
Cuban people, which is a consequence of positive laws 
that  affect  free  trade  and  the  transparent  practice  of 
international trade. 

In  that  respect,  Paraguayan  legislation  does  not 
recognize  the  extraterritorial  application  of  foreign 
laws  that  violate  the  sovereignty  of  other  States.  This 
practice also violates the principles of international law 
that  we,  the  Members  of  the  United  Nations,  defend 
and strive to uphold. 
the 

has 
resolutions  adopted  by 
the  General  Assembly  at 
previous  sessions  which  call  for  the  lifting  of  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba.  In  full  observance  of  resolution  65/6,  entitled 
“Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America  against  Cuba”,  and  before  this  Assembly, 
Paraguay  once  again  reiterates  its  support  for  the 
resolutions adopted in that regard. 

in 
international  forums,  in  particular  the  United  Nations, 
and  considering  the  resolutions  that  condemn  the 
Israeli  occupation  of  Palestinian  territories,  such  as 
Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967),  338  (1973), 
446  (1979)  and  478  (1980),  Paraguay  established 
diplomatic  relations  with  Palestine  on  25  March  2005 
Consistent  with 
consistently 
the  stance 
supported 
Paraguay 
it  has 
taken 
11-50702 

9 
includes 
international 
the  General  Assembly 
A/66/PV.12 

and recognizes a free and independent Palestinian State 
based on the borders of 4 June 1967. 

We are gratified that the agenda of the sixty-sixth 
session  of 
the 
recognition  of  the  free,  sovereign  and  independent 
State  of  Palestine.  We  are  convinced  that  this  is  a 
confirmation  of  the  historic  debt  of  the  international 
community  to  recognize  the  legitimate  right  of  the 
Palestinian  people  to  have  its  own  State  with  well-
defined borders. This will be a significant contribution 
to the peace process in the Middle East. 
We  believe  that  urgent  efforts  are  needed  to 

design  and  build  a  new 
financial 
architecture, one that responds to the new era in which 
we live and provides measures for avoiding systematic 
cyclical crises and for developing regional mechanisms 
for  economic  and  financial  cooperation.  Under  this 
new  framework,  nations  with  common  histories  and 
destinies  can  create  their  own  spaces  for  cooperation 
and economic partnerships. 

The countries of South America have focused the 
actions  of  UNASUR  on  this  goal.  We  are  confident 
that,  by  coordinating  and 
linking  our  economic 
initiatives,  we  will  lay  the  foundation  for  integration, 
which  will  not  only  protect  our  countries  from  crises 
that  are  not  of  our  creation,  but  also  guarantee  the 
comprehensive development of our peoples. 

Paraguay  is  among  those  nation  States  which, 
over the course of history, have fallen  prey to various 
vulnerabilities,  given  their  geographic  situation  and 
historical experience. Paraguay has been weakened by 
a historic model of socio-economic development based 
on the looting of its natural and strategic resources and 
administered 
structural 
dependence. 

That  is  why,  in  January  2010,  Paraguay  became 
the  Chair  of  the  Group  of  Landlocked  Developing 
Countries.  In  that  capacity,  we  urge  transit  countries 
and  their  main  neighbours,  as  applicable,  as  well  as 
international  organizations  and  the  most  developed 
countries,  to  increase  their  commitment  to  implement 
the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action,  addressing  the 
special  needs  of 
landlocked  developing  countries 
within  a  new  global  framework  for  transit  transport 
cooperation. This will help such countries to overcome 
their 
their  overall 
development. 
limitations  and  will  facilitate 
through 
relations 
of 

As  a  complement  to  beginning  the  preparations 

for 
the  Conference  of  Landlocked  and  Transit 
Developing Countries, which will help us to overcome 
the  adversities  we  face,  we  are  promoting 
the 
Multilateral  Agreement  for  the  Establishment  of  an 
International  Think  Tank  for  Landlocked  Developing 
Countries, in the conviction that scientific advances in 
that area will be of great importance in overcoming the 
obstacles that such countries face. 

Regarding  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
Paraguay  reaffirms  its  full  commitment  to  achieving 
those goals and expresses its concern about the extent 
to  which  they  will  be  met  by  2015.  This  is  why  we 
encourage  Governments,  civil  society  organizations 
and  the  private  sector  to  work  together  to  achieve 
them.  

Given  its  commitment  to  the  goal  of  fully 
respecting  the  human  rights  of  our  peoples,  Paraguay 
has  decided  to  present  its  candidacy  for  the  Human 
Rights  Council  for  the  term  2014-2017.  We  hope  to 
have the support of the international community. 

We  must  express  our  serious  concern  for  the 
environmental  crisis,  which  is  worsening  on  a  daily 
basis  and  even  generating  uncertainty  about 
the 
survival  of 
fully  support 
strengthening  the  only  legally  binding  agreement  in 
this area, the Kyoto Protocol, and its further extension. 
The agreements reached in Cancún are a great support 
in improving emissions levels but they are voluntary in 
nature,  which  contradicts  the  principle  of  climate 
justice that our peoples so favour.  

Finally,  I  would  like  to  thank  all  those  who 
helped  the  Paraguayan  initiative  for  the  International 
Day  of  Friendship  to  come  to  fruition. The  friendship 
of individuals, peoples and nations is not exclusively a 
question  of  diplomacy,  much 
less  a  commercial 
enterprise  to  make  money  from  the  inclination  of 
human beings to join together. Friendship is that bond 
which must necessarily be based on solidarity, and, in 
Paraguay, we believe that it is high time for the world 
to make it happen.  

I  am  pleased  that  this  initiative  has  become 
universal.  On  behalf  of  the  Paraguayan  people,  we 
greet  all  the  peoples  of  the  world  in  the  hope  that  we 
will  find  the  way  to  overcome  global  social  injustices 
and  thus  guarantee  a  world  culture  of  peace  and 
friendship  based  on 
the  well-being  and  genuine 
development of all our peoples, without distinction. 
the  human 
race.  We 
10 

11-50702 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 



the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Paraguay for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Fernando  Lugo  Méndez,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Paraguay,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Paul Kagame, President of the 
Republic of Rwanda 

address by the President of the Republic of Rwanda. 

The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
Mr.  Paul  Kagame,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Rwanda, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Paul Kagame, President of 
the  Republic  of  Rwanda,  and  to  invite  him  to  address 
the Assembly. 

President  Kagame:  As  the  world  continues  to 
deal  with  crises,  including  conflicts  across  the  globe, 
we  need  to  examine  the  role  of  mediation  in  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes, conflict prevention and 
resolution, and the part each one of us needs to play. 

The  effect  of  decades  of  conflict  has  been  an 
unacceptable loss of life and a reversal of global social 
and economic progress. What has also become clear is 
that  although  most  conflicts  are  now  domestic  in 
nature,  they  continue  to  have  a  destabilizing  effect  on 
neighbouring countries and the rest of the world. 

One  needs  to  look  carefully  at  the  dividends  of 
striving towards shared global prosperity, which in turn 
increases  capacity  to  deal  with  conflict.  By  tackling 
development 
the 
framework  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
established by this body and the Secretary-General, we 
create conditions conducive to the formation of a more 
stable world. 

Figures  from  the  United  Nations  itself  indicate 
that  about  $7.1  billion  will  be  spent  in  the  period 
2011-2012 for peacekeeping purposes. Resources such 
as these that are consumed by conflicts could otherwise 
be  channelled  through  the  United  Nations  or  other 
relevant institutions to improve the lives of millions of 
people. 
for  example, 
through 
issues, 
A/66/PV.12
thus 
reducing 
Apart  from  traditional 

Thus,  while  it  is  appropriate  to  talk  about  how 
mediation  can  support  efforts  to  prevent  and  manage 
conflicts,  we  should  also  ask  ourselves  why,  after 
decades  of  trying,  we  are  not  making  the  progress  we 
would like to make in this regard. 

Mr. Quinlan (Australia), Vice-President, took the 
Chair. 

We  know  that  the  likelihood  of  conflict  is  high 
when  citizens  feel  disenfranchised  and  marginalized, 
and where Governments do not govern in the interests 
of their people. If the rule of law is absent and access 
to opportunity is limited or exclusive, that is a problem 
which  we  should  address  as  a  global  community, 
consistently  and  with  commitment.  It  makes  good 
economic  and  political  sense  to  invest  in  conflict 
prevention, 
future  outbreaks  and 
avoiding short-term, quick-fix solutions.  

interventions  that  we 
employ with  varying success, there  is one major  asset 
that  remains  under-utilized,  and  that  is  our  youth. 
Younger  generations  carry  less  historical  and  political 
baggage  and  are  more  inclined  to  get  the  most  out  of 
the  global  village  that  we  all  find  ourselves  sharing. 
With  social  and  communication  tools,  they  are  key 
innovators  and  thought  leaders  not  only  of  tomorrow 
but  of  right  now. We  have  an  important  responsibility 
to  empower  them  to  believe  in  themselves  and  in  a 
better future. 

Returning  to  the  topic  of  mediation  and  the 
associated  issues  of  negotiation  and  reconciliation, 
these  practices  are  not  new  ones  in  Africa,  or  in  my 
country, Rwanda. They play a useful role, and one that 
should  be  strengthened.  However,  various  experiences 
have  shown  that  if  mediation  is  to  succeed,  national 
efforts should be supported in the first place, based on 
specific cultural and political contexts. In Rwanda, for 
instance,  we  have  seen  national  efforts  produce  long-
lasting  solutions  and  tangible  results  on  the  ground 
because they are homegrown. 

It is also important to involve in mediation efforts 
regional  and  subregional  players  who  have  ample 
knowledge of the often  complex regional dynamics  of 
conflicts.  These  organizations  should  be  supported 
expeditiously  before  disputes  escalate  into  intractable 
conflicts. 

Additionally,  we need to take a good look at the 
toll  that  traditional  diplomatic  mediation  can  have  on 
11-50702 

11 

A/66/PV.12 

the  lives  of  people  living  in  conflict  areas. Too  often, 
while resolutions are being debated and refined, people 
are  dying. And  sometimes  when  those  resolutions  are 
eventually  adopted,  enforcement  is  slow,  or  they  only 
halt the conflict for a short time but with no sustainable 
solutions. 

Let  us  also  remember  the  limitations  faced  by 
external  mediation  experts  who,  even  when  having 
good  intentions,  are  often  unable  to  foster  any  lasting 
change  at  the  root  level  of  the  conflict.  National 
ownership  remains  very  critical.  Mediation  efforts 
must  be  based  on  an  overriding  desire  to  help 
conflicting parties to resolve their differences. But that 
should not be confused with supporting one side in the 
conflict or imposing a solution that is in the interests of 
the mediators. 

Let  me  conclude  by  saying  that  the  most  viable 
option  for  preventing  conflict  is  to  empower  our  own 
citizens, especially youth, politically, economically and 
socially,  so  that  they  have  a  stake  in  the  management 
and  stability  of  the  nation.  Ultimately,  long-lasting 
solutions are the ones that emanate from within. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Rwanda for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Paul  Kagame,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Rwanda, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 


Address by Mr. Željko Komšić, Chair of the 
Presidency of Bosnia and Herzegovina 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  Chair  of  the  Presidency  of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina. 

Mr.  Željko  Komšić,  Chair  of  the  Presidency  of 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Željko  Komšić,  Chair  of 
the  Presidency  of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
Mr.  Komšić  (spoke  in  Bosnian;  English  text 

provided  by  the  delegation):  It  is  my  great  honour  to 
address the General Assembly today in my capacity as 
the  Chair  of 
the  Presidency  of  Bosnia  and 
I 
am 
to 
the 
honoured 
the  very  outset, 
Herzegovina.  Allow  me,  at 
to 
congratulate  Mr.  Al-Nasser  upon  his  election  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth 
session, as well as the members of the Bureau, and to 
express  our  full  support  for  your  future  work. 
Furthermore,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Joseph 
Deiss  on  the  results  achieved  when  he  presided  over 
the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  in  a 
period when this body and the international community 
in general were facing an array of challenges stemming 
from current global issues. 

especially 
extend 
congratulations  to  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon,  for  his  unanimous  re-appointment  as  the 
Secretary-General of the United Nations. Over the past 
five years, Mr. Ban has worked tirelessly to address the 
various issues facing the Organization. We expect that 
the  Secretary-General  will  continue  to  pursue  these 
activities during his second term. 

Allow  me  to  express  my  gratitude  for  all  the 
cooperation  and  the  support  we  have  received  during 
Bosnia and Herzegovina’s membership in the Security 
Council, which will expire in a few months. Speaking 
of our membership in the Security Council, let me once 
again  reiterate 
the  presence  and 
participation  of  small  States  such  as  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina in the work and decisions of the Security 
Council 
important  for  maintaining 
balance  within  it.  Accordingly,  other  countries,  along 
with  the  Security  Council’s  permanent  members  and 
the world Powers, also have the opportunity to express 
their  views  and  participate 
in  Security  Council 
decision-making  on  important  issues  of  international 
peace and security. It has been our pleasure and honour 
to  work  together  with  all  members  of  the  Security 
Council  during 
term  of  our  membership, 
2010-2011. 

Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  had  the  honour  to 
preside  over  the  Security  Council  in  January  2011. 
Although acting as President was only one segment of 
the  two-year  experience  in  the  Council,  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina once again proved that it can be an equal 
partner  on  the  international  diplomatic  scene  and 
respond to a variety of obligations.  

a 
and  Herzegovina 
constructive  role  in  the  work  of  the  Security  Council 
by  contributing  to  the  Council’s  better,  more  effective 
and  faster  response  to  situations  with  the  potential  to 
is  particularly 
the  view 
that 
has 
played 
Bosnia 
12 

11-50702 
entitled 
to 
to  share 
actively 
to  better 
and 
thematic  debate 
The  Security  Council 
in  post-conflict  peacebuilding 


threaten  international  peace.  Furthermore,  Bosnia  and 
its  own 
Herzegovina  has  also  sought 
experiences 
and 
long-lasting 
contribute 
understanding  and  reconciliation.  Through  its  role  in 
the  Council,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  showed  that  it 
can be an equal and competent partner in international 
relations. 
(see 

S/PV.6472) 
“Post-conflict  peacebuilding: 
institution-building”,  which  was  initiated  by  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina,  reached  a  number  of  conclusions.  I 
would like to mention some of them. 
In  the  interests  of  the  success  of  peacebuilding 

initiatives,  priority  must  be  given 
institution-
building.  so  as  to  prevent  a  return  to  conflict  and 
ensure the survival, renewed credibility and legitimacy 
of  States.  The  purpose  of  institution-building  is  to 
progressively  reduce  dependence  on  the  international 
community  and  promote  sustainability.  Ownership  of 
the  reform  process  is  the  main  condition  for  the 
establishment of effective institutions and for ensuring 
sustainable peace. 

institution-building 
depends primarily on establishing partnerships between 
the 
post-conflict 
societies,  a  partnership  that  is  based  on  a  set  of 
common  goals.  Bearing  that  in  mind,  we  would  like 
once again to thank the Assembly for the confidence its 
members  have  shown  and  for  the  support  they  have 
provided  during  our  membership  in  the  Security 
Council.  

to 
provide  concrete  contributions  to  the  United  Nations 
peace operations in Liberia, the Sudan, Cyprus and the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo. 

In Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are united in our 
determination to move towards full membership in the 
European Union (EU); our unity provides a solid basis 
for the achievement of this goal. 

Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  places  special  emphasis 
on  regional  and  subregional  cooperation  and  dialogue 
between  neighbouring  countries  in  the  Balkans,  with 
their  different  cultures  and  traditions  that  have  been 
present  for  centuries.  We  are  committed  to  future 
cooperation  with  our  neighbours,  based  on 
the 
principles of mutual respect and respect for sovereignty 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  also  continues 
in  post-conflict 
international 
Success 
community 
and 
A/66/PV.12
to 
ensure 
security, 
stability, 
and  territorial  integrity.  We  are  interested  in  sharing 
our experiences with others and in developing mutually 
beneficial  relations 
in  post-conflict  peacebuilding, 
based on mutual respect for differences, which, in our 
opinion, represent an advantage. 

I would like to take this opportunity to emphasize 
that the issues of neighbourly and regional cooperation 
are  closely  related  to  the  integration  of  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  into  the  EU  and  NATO,  which  is  a 
strategic and high-priority foreign policy objective for 
my  country.  We  believe  that  this  is  the  best  and  only 
way 
economic 
development and prosperity for all citizens of Bosnia.  

The strategic goal of establishing formal relations 
and  EU  membership  is  based  on  the  aspiration  of 
Bosnia and Herzegovina to achieve the full functioning 
of our own institutions and the further development of 
society, on the basis of the principles of a free market, 
the rule of law and, especially, the protection of human 
rights. 

Furthermore,  my  country  wishes  to  improve  its 
relations with the States of Asia, Africa, Latin America, 
Australia  and  the  wider  region,  at  the  multilateral  and 
bilateral  level,  in  accordance  with  common  interests 
and real possibilities. Bosnia and Herzegovina remains 
dedicated  to  the  principle  of  openness  in  cooperation 
with all countries of the world. 

Many important world events have occurred since 
the  previous  session  of  the  General Assembly.  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina  is  following  with  great  attention, 
preoccupation  and  concern  the  development  of  the 
situation in the friendly Arab countries that are affected 
by  deep  social  and  political  changes.  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  supports  democratic  processes  aimed  at 
the  creation  of  free,  democratic  and  prosperous 
societies.  However,  such  processes  are  often  followed 
by  tragic  consequences,  and  we  therefore  appeal  once 
again  for  the  violence  to  stop  and  for  peace  to  be 
achieved in those societies. 

We  are  deeply  concerned  by  the  standstill  in 
crisis  resolution  in  the  Middle  East.  Despite  the 
optimistic  announcements  and  plans  made,  the  peace 
process has not yet been revived, as had been expected. 
The only way forward is a solution that is based on the 
principle of the peaceful coexistence of two sovereign 
States: a viable and independent Palestine and a stable 
and  secure  Israel,  with  respect  for  the  provisions  of 
11-50702 

13 

in 
A/66/PV.12 

international  law  and  humanitarian  law  and  human 
rights instruments. 

To  date,  the  United  Nations  has  supported  and 
actively  participated  in  the  creation  of  a  positive 
atmosphere in order to reach a just, comprehensive and 
lasting  peace 
the  Middle  East.  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  believes  that  the  conditions  for  a  lasting 
and  just  solution  can  be  achieved  with  additional 
political  will  and  responsibility  on  the  part  of  the 
negotiating parties. 
We are witnesses to the fact that the international 

community’s determination to deal with terrorism and, 
at  the  same  time,  create  conditions  conducive  to  the 
peaceful  development  of  Afghanistan  has  yielded 
results.  However,  we  cannot  but  conclude  that  it  will 
take  much  greater  efforts  to  establish  self-sustaining 
peace and stability in Afghanistan. In April 2010, as a 
sign  of  support  for  the  activities  of  the  international 
community, Bosnia and Herzegovina issued a decision 
on  the  sending  of  an  infantry  unit  to  the  International 
Security Assistance Force mission in Afghanistan. 

I  would  like  to  emphasize  here  that  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina  is  still  very  concerned  about  terrorist 
attacks,  which  claim  innocent  civilian  lives  in  many 
countries  around  the  world.  Bearing  in  mind  the  fact 
that the modern world continues to face various forms 
of international terrorism, I express our support for the 
full  implementation  of  the  United  Nations  Global 
Counter-Terrorism  Strategy  and  the  activities  of  the 
Counter-Terrorism  Committee.  In  that  regard,  let  me 
reiterate 
is 
unconditionally dedicated to the fight against terrorism 
and  is  particularly  active  in  cooperating  with  the 
countries  of  our  region  to  increase  security  and 
enhance  preparedness  for  the  effective  prevention  of 
terrorist  acts.  Completing  negotiations  and  adopting  a 
United  Nations  comprehensive  convention  against 
terrorism  would  be  an  important  contribution  in  this 
field. 

In addition to the political crisis, this year we are 
faced  once  again  with  many  other  problems  to  which 
the  international  community  still  lacks  proper  and 
effective  responses.  Despite  signs  of  recovery,  the 
greatest economic and financial crisis in recent history 
has,  unfortunately,  left  visible  consequences  that  are 
having repercussions on global peace and security. It is 
clear  that  countries  individually  cannot  cope  with  this 
and  Herzegovina 
that  Bosnia 
in  order 
especially 
community, 
individually  and  collectively, 
issue,  no  matter  how  efficient  their  Governments  may 
be. Global crises require global solutions. 

In  the  context  of  the  activities  of  the  United 
Nations,  we  must  face  the  fact  that  the  greatest 
economic  crisis  since  the  foundation  of  the  world 
Organization  has  to  some  degree  threatened  and  even 
begun  to  bring  into  question  the  achievement  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  one  of  the  most 
comprehensive  strategic  tasks  set  by  the  Organization 
since its establishment. 
Therefore, it is necessary to do everything in our 

power, 
to 
prevent  any  further  erosion  of  this  key  strategic 
project.  We  believe  that  it  is  necessary  for  the 
international 
the  United 
Nations,  to  redouble  its  efforts  to  assist  primarily  the 
least developed countries. 

The  climate  change  problem  caused  by  human 
activity  is  leading  to  changes  in  the  environment  that 
could  have  catastrophic  consequences  for  humankind 
as  a  whole  if  the  process  of  reaching  agreement  on 
environmental protection is not intensified. 

Bosnia and Herzegovina shares the concern of the 
most States Members of the United Nations at the fact 
that  drought,  floods,  sea-level  rise,  lack  of  running 
water  and  food,  deforestation  and  all 
the  other 
phenomena  caused  by  global  warming  pose  a  serious 
threat  to  global  security,  which  in  future  could  be  a 
cause of  conflict throughout the world. The extremely 
important  issue  of  climate  change  therefore  requires 
urgent  action  by  the  international  community.  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina  has  expressed  interest  in  joining  the 
countries  that  support  the  Copenhagen  Accord;  thus 
our  country  has  joined  the  large  number  of  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  that  consider  that 
Accord to be a necessary step in relation to Kyoto until 
the achievement of a final, legally binding agreement. 

Bearing  this  in  mind,  I  believe  that  neither 
economic  nor  political  interests  should  stand  in  the 
way  of  achieving  a  global  consensus  as  the  beginning 
of  the  global  and  common  struggle  to  preserve  the 
natural balance of the planet. It is often forgotten that 
climate  change  has  a  direct  effect 
terms  of 
development,  poverty  and  hunger,  and,  consequently, 
global peace  and security.  I am convinced that it is in 
our  common  interest  to  ensure  that  future  generations 
inherit  the  best  possible  world  on  our  common  home, 
planet Earth. 
in 
14 

11-50702 



I hope that all of us who are here today agree that 
comprehensive  United  Nations  reform  is  necessary; 
such  reform  must  be  carried  out  with  extreme  care, 
with  the  broadest  possible  consensus  on  the  part  of 
Member  States.  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  sees  the  role 
of  the  United  Nations  and  its  agencies  as  central  to 
resolving  key  issues  of  international  significance. 
Therefore,  it  supports  the  Secretary-General’s  efforts 
and proposals for reform. 

United Nations reform should lead to the efficient 
and coordinated functioning of all agencies and bodies 
of the United Nations system, bearing in mind the need 
to avoid any duplication of activities in the context of a 
more rational allocation of financial resources. 

Regardless  of  the  future  configuration  of  the 
Security Council, we believe that the Eastern European 
group  of  countries  must  have  another  non-permanent 
seat,  taking  into  account  the  fact  that  in  the  past  two 
decades the number of countries in this group has more 
than doubled. 

While  presiding  over  a  subsidiary  body  of  the 
Security  Council  —  the  Informal  Working  Group  on 
Documentation  and  Other  Procedural  Questions  — 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  set  the  consideration  of  the 
working  methods  and  transparency  of  the  Security 
Council  as  a  primary  goal.  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina 
also 
in 
cooperation  with  partner  countries  and  the  General 
Assembly,  at  which  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  expressed  their  opinions  and  views  and  put 
forward  concrete  proposals 
the 
efficiency of the Security Council. 

I  wish  to  emphasize  in  particular  that  it  is 
expected  that  the  United  Nations,  particularly  the 
Security  Council,  be  more  active  in  the  area  of 
preventive diplomacy. We believe that in order to make 
the work of the Council more efficient, greater activity 
in  this  respect  would  provide  a  starting  point  for 
resolving  many  of  the  world’s  problems  and  crises 
before  they  flare  up.  Providing  timely  and  effective 
conflict prevention, rather than reacting once the crisis 
has  escalated,  is  certainly  a  more  efficient  and  less 
expensive  mechanism 
for  preserving  peace  and 
security. 

During  the  six  decades  of  its  existence,  the 
United  Nations  has  undergone  ordeals  but  it  always 
was  and  still  is  the  best  framework  for  seeking  and 
providing  adequate  responses  to  the  wide  range  of 
informal  meetings 
improving 
organized 
several 
for 
A/66/PV.12
global  issues  that  we  face.  Therefore,  I  urge  Member 
States  to  work  for  the  full  implementation  of  all  our 
agreements  in  order  to  make  the  world  a  better  place 
for our future generations. 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the Chair of the Presidency 
of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made. 

Mr.  Željko  Komšić,  Chair  of  the  Presidency  of 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Bharrat Jagdeo, President of the 
Republic of Guyana 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Guyana. 

Mr. Bharrat Jagdeo, President of the Republic of 
Guyana, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bharrat  Jagdeo,  President 
of the Republic of Guyana, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly. 
President  Jagdeo:  Allow  me  first  to  convey  to 

the  President  my  warmest  congratulations  on  his 
election to guide the work of the sixty-sixth session of 
the  General Assembly.  I  have  no  doubt  that  under  his 
leadership, Qatar will be instrumental in the service of 
his presidency, and, indeed, in that of the Assembly as 
a whole, as we face the challenging times ahead. I also 
recognize  the  service  of  his  predecessor  and  wish  to 
record  our  appreciation  for  that  service.  To  our 
Secretary-General, 
delegation’s 
congratulations  on  the  renewal  of  his  mandate,  an  act 
that bears testimony to the confidence placed in him by 
the Member States of this body. 

This is the last time that I will address this great 
Hall as President of my country. Before the end of the 
year, I will be proud to be the first President of Guyana 
to demit office under the constitutional term limits that 
I  signed  into  law  in  the  early  days  of  my  presidency. 
Inevitably,  that  milestone  has  caused  me  to  look  back 
on the changes that have taken place in this body since 
I first stood here 12 years ago. Three things strike me 
offer  my 
I 
11-50702 

15 

A/66/PV.12 

as I reflect on the role of the United Nations over those 
12 years. 

The first is that the central point that I and others 
have  repeatedly  made  from  this  rostrum  stays  as  true 
today  as  it  was  when  we  first  articulated  it.  The  core 
point is that, while the values that inform the work of 
the  United  Nations  and  our  Member  States  —  the 
values  of  peace,  equality  and  justice  —  are  timeless, 
they are of limited use unless we, as the United Nations 
and  as  individual  Member  States,  draw  on  them  to 
catalyse consistent, meaningful and practical responses 
to  the  contemporary  changing  challenges  that  our 
peoples face. 

The  second  point  that  strikes  me  is  how  utterly 
different  today’s  contemporary  challenges  actually  are 
when compared with those of just 12 years ago, not to 
mention  those  of  the  1940s,  when  the  United  Nations 
was founded. The rise of China, India, Brazil and other 
developing  countries  is  transforming  the  globe  for  the 
better.  Billions  of  people  have  been  lifted  out  of 
poverty;  new  businesses  are  generating  millions  of 
jobs,  growth  and  capital;  and  there  is  once  again 
genuine  intellectual  debate  about  the  right  way  to 
embed  rights  and  justice  at  the  core  of  the  global 
governance structure. 

However, the emergence of those great Powers is 
happening  in  a  totally  different  way  to  how  Powers 
emerged in the past. They are emerging in a world that 
instant  communications 
is 
through 
capabilities  and  globalized 
trading  and  financial 
systems.  What  we  are  witnessing  is  unlike  anything 
that has happened before, and few communities and no 
country  on  the  planet  are  not  impacted,  almost  in  real 
time, by those changes as they happen. 
That presents the United Nations and its Member 

States  with  a  great  opportunity  to  realize  our  values 
and  to  secure  the  global  peace,  justice  and  security  to 
which we aspire. But to do so, we must face up to the 
opportunities of interconnectedness with responses that 
are 
international 
collective action in recent years is not good. 

That leads me to my third point, which is that the 
search for justice and the achievement of rights for all 
require  us  to  broaden  our  traditional  understanding  of 
security.  We  must  struggle  to  achieve  rights  in  a  new 
way  and,  as  many  have  said  before  me,  alongside  the 
physical  security  challenge,  there  are  many  other 
aspects to human security and the realization of rights. 
interconnected.  Our 
interconnected 
record  on 
that 
I think that there are four other elements of security, in 
particular, that we need to properly understand. 

First  is  the  challenge  of  food  security.  We  are 
heading  for  8  billion,  then  9  billion  people.  Rising 
prosperity  means 
those  people  want  greater 
amounts  of,  and  more  nutritious,  food.  By  current 
trends,  we  need  100  million  hectares  of  new  land  by 
2020  to  meet  that  demand.  How  do  we  do  that  and 
avoid excessive price increases and volatility? 

Second is the challenge of energy security. As the 
world  gets  richer,  our  demand  for  energy  increases 
massively.  We  are  likely  to  demand  36  per  cent  more 
energy  by  2035.  How  do  we  generate  the  energy 
needed to meet such demand in a way that helps people 
everywhere 
to  develop  and  does  not  choke  off 
economic growth through high prices caused by energy 
scarcity? 

Third is the challenge of resource security. If we 
are to alleviate poverty, countries need to develop. And 
if  countries  are  to  develop,  they  need  minerals  and 
other commodities. China alone accounts for more than 
a third of the demand for many of the most important 
global  commodities,  and  countries  across  the  world, 
most notably in South America and Africa, can supply 
them. How do we help global development by sourcing 
such minerals and using them efficiently and justly? 
Fourth is the challenge of climate security. If we 

are 
the  biggest  economic  and  social 
to  avert 
catastrophe  ever  seen,  we  must  stabilize  our  planet’s 
climate.  At  the  absolute  limit,  that  means  stabilizing 
global  temperatures  at  a  maximum  of  two  degrees 
above pre-industrial levels. Yet we are on track towards 
perhaps  a  four-  or  five-degree  rise,  according  to  the 
United  Nations  Environment  Programme. The  disaster 
that 
is  beyond  anyone’s 
comprehension. And the fact that we are not treating it 
as  an  emergency  will  be  viewed  by  history  as  the 
biggest  derogation  of  responsibility  by  societies  and 
Governments  to  ever  take  place.  How  can  we  rapidly 
change that situation before we run out of time? 

both 
represent 
opportunities  and  difficulties.  The  difficulties  are 
obvious, but they are opportunities in the sense that we 
have  enough  land,  innovation  and  human  ingenuity  to 
feed the world. We have enough clean energy potential 
to  power  future  prosperity. We  have  enough  resources 
to  provide  the  foundations  for  economic  growth.  We 
know  that  to  avert  climate  change  means  using  fossil 
this  could 
challenges 
represent 
Those 
four 
16 

11-50702 


fuels and land in the right way. Once we start realizing 
those  opportunities,  we  can  create  new  platforms  for 
peace, development and physical security. 

That  sounds  an  impossible  task,  but  I  would 
argue that it is not. There are solutions to enable those 
opportunities  to  be  grasped  today,  and  the  United 
Nations  can  provide  the  platform  for  making  the 
changes  that  are  needed.  We  can  do  that  if  we  draw 
motivation  from  the  realization  that  the  idea  of 
integrated sustainable development, where we optimize 
our  response  to  the  interlinked  security  challenges,  is 
not  some  abstraction  for  environmentalists.  It  is  not  a 
piece  of  rhetoric  about  a  theoretical  better  future. 
Instead, it is an essential and specific call to action that 
has the potential to be the  key global breakthrough of 
our  time.  It  can  change  the  global  paradigm  of 
development  in  a  way  that  enables  us  to  address  the 
interconnected security challenges we face in the world 
today.  

Pursuing  this  integrated  response  to  our  global 
challenges  presents  unparalleled  opportunities  for 
peoples across today’s developing world. The food we 
need,  the  energy  we  generate,  the  minerals  and  other 
commodities  from  which  we  grow  our  economies, 
along  with  our  forests  and  other  land  that  can  be  the 
drivers  of  climate  solutions,  are  all  largely  in  the 
developing  world.  With  the  right  international  action, 
the developing world can lead the globe in the creation 
of the transformational shift we need to see.  

the  United  Nations,  we 
already  have  many  of  the  entities  we  need  to  solve 
these  problems  in  an  integrated  way.  That  realization 
should  motivate  us  to  understand  that  by  next  year’s 
United  Nations 
Sustainable 
Development, we can start to make the progress that is 
necessary. 

But  that  means  consistency  in  our  efforts  to 
address  all  forms  of  insecurity.  We  need  to  support 
peaceful peoples everywhere to assert their basic rights 
to  physical  security  and  development.  The  global 
the  Arab  Spring  and  other  peace 
response 
movements  across 
the  Middle  East  has  been 
remarkable  for  its  inconsistency.  Guyana  supports  the 
right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  full  statehood  and 
urges  the  acceleration  of  the  negotiations  to  achieve 
this.  Palestinian  rights  and  blood  are  as  valuable  and 
important as those of people everywhere else. I urge all 
Importantly,  within 
Conference 
on 
to 
A/66/PV.12
this  week’s  meeting 
Members to support the draft resolution when it comes 
before this body. 

Guyana  was  delighted  to  co-sponsor  resolution 
65/308  that  resulted  in  the  entry  of  South  Sudan  into 
this General Assembly. But we need to do much more. 
Guyana will be supportive of all peoples who struggle 
for democracy and dignity. 

This also means that we need to rapidly upgrade 
our  response  to  supporting  development,  food,  energy 
and  resource  security.  We  need  to  see  the  Doha  trade 
round  not  as  some  zero-sum  game  between  the 
developed  and  developing  world,  but  as  a  critical 
component  to  enable  the  world  to  meet  the  urgent 
challenges  that  an  increasingly  prosperous,  growing 
population  will  present.  We  need  to  redouble  our 
efforts  to  meet  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
and  to  defeat  non-communicable  diseases.  Guyana 
therefore  welcomes 
on 
non-communicable  diseases  and  the  adoption  of  the 
Political Declaration (resolution 66/2, annex). 

Finally,  we  need  to  move  beyond  the  global 
insanity  that  is  our  response  to  climate  insecurity. 
Existing  pledges  on  greenhouse  gas  emissions  under 
the  Copenhagen  Accord  will  not  contain  global 
temperature 
that  will  avert 
catastrophic climate change, and some States will face 
extinction. Moreover, the anaemic delivery on financial 
pledges  made  at  Copenhagen  and  formalized  in  the 
to  a  disastrous 
Cancún  agreements 
breakdown 
the  developed  and 
developing  world.  The  prospects  for  reaching  an 
internationally  legally  binding  agreement  on  climate 
change at the seventeenth Conference of the Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change  in  Durban,  South Africa,  would  appear  rather 
bleak. There is therefore an urgent need for high-order 
political  leadership  to  re-energize  the  climate  change 
process and deliver credible results. 

To  address  these  challenges,  the  United  Nations 
and  other  international  institutions  need  to  modernize 
fast,  and  the  international  system  needs  to  correct  the 
inconsistencies between aid, trade and climate policies 
as  I  have  outlined.  In  part,  this  means  making  the 
Security  Council  more  democratic,  transparent  and 
legitimate.  Fifty-four  African  countries  have  no 
permanent  seat  on 
the 
33 countries  that  comprise  the  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  region.  Guyana  strongly  supports  early 
the  Council;  neither  do 
trust  between 
rises  within 
limits 
is 
leading 
in 
11-50702 

17 

countries  and  destroy 
A/66/PV.12 

reform of the Security Council through an expansion in 
both the permanent  and non-permanent categories  and 
enhanced representation of developing countries. 

Today’s  developed  world  needs  to  catch  up  with 
the realization that the world has changed, and it is in 
its  vital  national  interests  to  change  its  approach  to 
development  issues.  Food  security  is  not  just  about 
people  in  poor  countries;  prices  in  Europe  and  the 
United States are rising too. Energy insecurity will hit 
today’s  developed 
their 
competitiveness as rapidly as it will hit the developing 
world.  Resource  insecurity  is  already  driving  up 
imported  inflation  in  many  developed  countries  and 
elsewhere.  Climate  insecurity  could  be  the  tipping 
point for today’s Powers to be relegated to history, with 
all the suffering that would entail for their peoples. 

So  the  narrative  is  changing  and  I  hope  that  we 
will  rise  to  the  challenge.  From  now  on,  I  will  watch 
the proceedings in this Hall from afar, but for all of my 
invocations  to  the  United  Nations  to  do  better,  it 
remains the place where noble ambitions are pursued. I 
wish  the  United  Nations  and  its  Members  all  the  best 
for  a  secure,  prosperous  and  socially  just  future.  On 
behalf  of  my  country  and  people,  I  express  our  full 
support  for  the  Organization  and  for  strengthening  its 
capacity to better fulfil the many mandates entrusted to 
it. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Guyana for the statement he has just made. 

Mr. Bharrat Jagdeo, President of the Republic of 
Guyana, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 


The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
Address by Mr. Elbegdorj Tsakhia, President  
of Mongolia 

hear an address by the President of Mongolia. 

Mr.  Elbegdorj  Tsakhia,  President  of  Mongolia, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Elbegdorj  Tsakhia, 
President of Mongolia, and to invite him to address the 
Assembly. 
President Tsakhia (spoke in Mongolian; English 

text provided by the delegation): My delegation offers 
President  Al-Nasser  its  warm  congratulations  on  his 
unanimous  election  as  President  of 
the  General 
Assembly  at  the  current  session  and  pledges  its 
unconditional support and cooperation in the discharge 
of his onerous responsibilities. 

I wish to extend my sincere congratulations to the 
Secretary-General  on  his  well-deserved  re-appointment 
and  express  my  deep  appreciation  for  his  role  in 
enhancing  the  role  of  the  world  Organization  as  a 
promoter  of  peace,  security  and  development.  His 
unanimous re-election to his high post is a testimony to 
his  outstanding  leadership  of  the  United  Nations  over 
the  past  five  years  and  a  vote  of  strong  confidence  in 
his future endeavours. 

On  behalf  of  the  people  of  Mongolia,  I  warmly 
welcome  South  Sudan  as  the  193rd  Member  of  the 
United Nations. 

Today the international community finds itself in 
times  of  uncertainty. The  recovery  from  the  economic 
and  financial  crisis  has  been  uneven  and  sluggish.  Its 
social repercussions have been intensified by persistent 
unemployment  and  poverty  in  many  countries.  Major 
natural  disasters  occur  all  too  often.  Unprecedented 
challenges stemming from climate change continue and 
remain unaddressed. 

The  world’s  population  will  reach  7  billion  next 
month,  and  it  is  a  cause  of  great  concern  that  over  a 
billion  still  suffer  from  hunger.  The  global  economic 
and  financial  crisis  grossly  affected  our  drive  to 
achieve the Millennium Development Goals. A number 
of  international  negotiations  and  mediation  efforts  on 
conflict resolution have yet to produce results. 

In  today’s  globalized  world,  these  challenges 
require  collective  solutions.  To  this  end,  the  existing 
improved  and 
governance  structure  ought 
reformed. 
international 
organizations  is  critical  to  this  process.  The  thematic 
discussions  on  enhancing  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations  in  global  economic  governance  and  dialogues 
with the Chairman of the Group of 20, held during the 
sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  were  the 
first  important  step.  What  we  need  to  do  now  is  to 
enhance  the  role  and  status  of  the  United  Nations, 
including the Economic and Security Council, in global 
economic decision-making. 
to  be 
of 
involvement 
The 
18 

11-50702 
into 
taking 
to  be 
account 
set  up 
economy, 
formulate 
(MDGs)  and 



It  has  also  become  imperative  to  ensure  full  and 
on-time  delivery  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals 
the  post-2015 
development  agenda.  That  agenda  should  help  ensure 
the meaningful integration of developing countries into 
the  world 
the 
vulnerabilities of landlocked least-developed countries 
and  those  susceptible  to  desertification  and  climate 
change. The Doha Development Round of multilateral 
trade  negotiations,  stalled  for  the  past  decade,  has  yet 
to produce positive results towards this end. 

Every  sixth  Member  of  the  United  Nations  is  a 
landlocked developing country whose remoteness from 
world  markets  and  high  transport  costs  are  a  major 
impediment  to  its  development.  Along  with  other 
members  of  this  group,  Mongolia  is  endeavouring  to 
advance  our  common  interests  at  the  United  Nations 
and  in  the  World  Trade  Organization.  The  creation  of 
an  international  think  tank  for  landlocked  developing 
countries, 
in  Ulaanbaatar,  will 
unquestionably contribute to greater cooperation in the 
implementation  of  the  Almaty  Programme  of  Action 
and  our  relevant  MDGs.  I  therefore  call  on  all  the 
relevant  parties  to  sign  and  ratify  the  multilateral 
agreement  establishing  this  institution,  which  will  be 
vitally important to landlocked developing countries. 

Last year, we reviewed our progress in achieving 
the  MDGs  and  agreed  to  strengthen  the  partnership. 
Yet,  as was shown in the  most recent  MDG Gap Task 
Force  report,  significant  gaps  remain  in  delivering  on 
commitments in the areas of aid, trade, debt relief and 
access  to  new  technologies.  For  Mongolia,  66  percent 
of  our  MDGs  are  achievable  by  2015.  But  our  goals 
relating  to  poverty,  environmental  degradation  and 
gender  inequality  are  seriously  off-track  and  will 
require  stepped-up  action  on 
the 
Government  and  the  enhancement  of  our  bilateral  and 
multilateral  partnerships  if  we  are  to  meet  these 
challenges. 
targeted 

policies  and  activities  aimed  at  poverty  reduction. 
Alcoholism  is  one  of  the  serious  social  ills  associated 
with  poverty.  As  President,  I  initiated  a  nationwide 
movement aimed at stopping alcohol abuse, curbing its 
consumption  and  encouraging  abstinence  that  has 
enjoyed  wide  public  support.  With  a  view 
to 
encouraging  such  movements  in  other  countries,  it 
might  be  useful 
the  possibility  of 
Mongolia  has  been 
the  part  of 
implementing 
look 
into 
to 
to 
A/66/PV.12
to 
for 
recommendations 
in  finding  collective  solutions 
promulgating  an  international  convention  aimed  at 
reducing alcohol consumption. 

Climate  change,  drought,  land  degradation  and 
desertification  have  emerged  as  some  of  the  gravest 
challenges  facing  humankind.  Yesterday’s  High-level 
Meeting  on  desertification  marked  an  important  step 
forward 
these 
challenges. It is a matter of great concern that 2 billion 
people  and  about  50  per  cent  of  agricultural  land 
around  the  globe  are  affected  by  desertification,  land 
degradation and drought. We should therefore set up an 
intergovernmental  panel  to  conduct  a  comprehensive 
study on the effects of these phenomena and to identify 
action-oriented 
affected 
countries. 

We  look  forward  to  the  seventeenth  Conference 
of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change, to be held in Durban, 
South  Africa,  later  this  year,  to  discuss  a  significant 
reduction  of  greenhouse  gas  emissions  and 
the 
development  of  green  economies.  I  believe  that  the 
global  transition  to  a  green  economy  is  critically 
important  for  mitigating  climate  change  and  halting 
desertification, 
ecosystem 
destruction and the loss of biodiversity, and that these 
in turn will help reduce poverty. 

Financial  assistance  and  expertise  are  vital  to 
developing  countries,  including  my  own,  in  their 
efforts  to  develop  a  green  economy  through  the 
introduction  of  green  technologies  and  by  building 
national  capacity  in  energy  production,  construction 
and  agriculture.  I 
the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  will  produce 
results  that  can  take  us  further  down  this  road.  As  a 
country  highly  vulnerable  to  the  impact  of  climate 
change,  Mongolia  is  supportive  of  global  efforts  to 
combat 
in  view, 
Mongolia  will  host  the  Asia-Europe  Environment 
Ministers’  Meeting  on  Sustainable  Water  and  Forest 
Management in 2012. 

dramatic 
transformations. The Arab Spring has brought freedom 
to  millions,  but  it  is  far  from  over. The  revolution  for 
freedom  is  not  the  hardest  social  change  to  make. 
Building  and  developing  a  free,  open  and  fair  civic 
society  is  even  more  difficult.  That  is  what  our 
ancestors  taught  us,  and  these  lessons  have  been 
reinforced  during  our  own  democratic  transformation 
its  negative  effects.  With 
has  witnessed 
degradation, 
trust 
land 
year 
past 
The 
that 
that 
11-50702 

19 
Beginning 
corruption, 
eliminating 
in  July,  Mongolia  assumed 
two  years,  Mongolia  will  give  priority 
A/66/PV.12 

over  the  past  20  years.  Let  me  cite  here  the  visionary 
teaching  of  the  founder  of  the  great  Mongolian  State, 
Chinggis Khaan, who was rightly chosen as the Man of 
the  Millennium.  Chinggis  Khaan  once  said 
that 
conquering  the  world  on  horseback  is  easy;  it  is 
dismounting  and  governing  that  is  much  harder.  The 
revolution  for  freedom  is  fought  and  won  by  the 
combined  efforts  of  thousands  of  people.  However,  in 
one  way  or  another,  it  is  each  and  every  person  who 
pays  the  price  for  freedom.  It  is  my  firm  belief  that 
notwithstanding any challenges it faces, freedom is the 
future of all humankind. 

the 
honourable  and  responsible  duties  of  President  of  the 
Community of Democracies, an organization geared to 
promoting  and  strengthening  democratic  norms  and 
values around the world. During its presidency over the 
next 
to 
for  democracy  and  good 
promoting  education 
governance, 
building 
partnerships  with  civil  society  and  consolidating 
regional cooperation. 

Over  the  past  20  years  of  our  own  democratic 
changes,  Mongolia  has  fundamentally  transformed  its 
former political, social and economic systems and laid 
down all the necessary foundations for new democratic 
governance,  promoting  and  protecting  a  market 
economy, free elections, freedom of the press and civil 
society.  We 
these 
accomplishments. 

We  are  fully  aware,  however,  that  many  things 
are far from perfect and that a lot more must be done to 
nurture democratic values in every citizen. Most of all, 
we  must  consolidate  accountable  and 
transparent 
governance,  free  from  corruption  and  secured  by  an 
independent  judiciary.  Such  governance  should  be 
more responsive to the needs of ordinary citizens, serve 
them,  abide  by  the  rule  of  law  and  the  principle  of 
impartiality,  and  have  proper  checks  and  balances.  In 
short,  we  are  striving 
to  develop  a  system  of 
governance that values its people and treats them with 
dignity and respect. 

to 
democracy and an open society, we are implementing a 
Mongolia-specific  MDG  9  on  democratic  governance, 
human rights and zero tolerance for corruption. Within 
this goal, we are endeavouring to make our governance 
open  and  transparent;  hence  our  full  support  for  the 
these  challenges  and 
To  address 
feel 
rightly 
proud 
of 

to 
Open  Government  Partnership  initiative.  I  would  also 
like to call on all Member States attempting to improve 
their  governance  at  the  national  level  to  join  the  Zero 
Tolerance for Corruption Campaign. 

The  Arab  Spring  will  be  followed  by  the  Arab 
Challenge.  Although  the  democratic  process  is  a 
homegrown  phenomenon,  it  should  be  supported  by 
international  cooperation.  Here,  I  have  a  message  for 
the 
industrialized  democratic  countries:  Do  not 
withdraw  from  the  battle.  Democratization  does  not 
mean  Westernization,  however.  Democracy  should 
develop  naturally,  in  line  with  the  historical,  cultural 
and  development  specifics  of  a  given  country. 
Nonetheless,  respect  for  freedom,  justice  and  human 
rights  and  strict  observance  of  the  rule  of  law  are 
common to all successful and responsible democracies. 
Bad  governance  is  the  worst  problem  of  all,  and  any 
aspirations 
improve  and  streamline 
it  should 
therefore be strongly supported at all times. 

Libya  has  entered  a  new  era  as  a  result  of  the 
relentless  courage  and  patience  of  the  rebels,  who 
persevered  for  many  months  in  their  struggle  for 
freedom,  human 
rights  and  democracy.  Colonel 
Al-Qadhafi  called  his  fellow  countrymen  “rats”  who 
should be brutally hunted down and exterminated. Now 
he himself is being hunted like a rat from hole to hole 
and trench to trench. That is the fate that awaits anyone 
who  represses  people’s  love  for  freedom  and  their 
desire  to  live  in  dignity.  Respectful  of  the  aspirations 
of  the  Libyan  people,  Mongolia  has  recognized  the 
National Transitional Council and offers its full support 
to  Libya’s  transition  towards  democracy,  justice  and 
human rights. 

The  international  community  should  not  shy 
away  from  condemning  the  regime  of  Syria’s  Bashar 
Al-Assad, who has inhumanly and brutally chosen the 
way of bloodshed to crack down on peaceful, freedom- 
justice-craving  protesters  by  using  combat 
and 
vehicles, 
force.  Let  us 
unanimously  demand  that  he  end  his  atrocities.  We 
must make the necessary decision to that effect without 
delay,  and  help  the  courageous  people  of  Syria,  who 
are  losing  dozens  of  their  brave  sons  and  daughters 
every day. 

The  love  of  freedom  is  the  greatest  force  in  this 
world.  No  tyranny,  not  even  the  cruellest  regime,  can 
resist it forever. I direct these words to the authorities 
and  military 
snipers 
threats 
20 

11-50702 


of  Yemen  and  dictators  seeking  to  suppress  their 
citizens’ fight for freedom. 

It  was  a  timely  decision  to  make  “The  role  of 
mediation  in  the  settlement  of  disputes  by  peaceful 
means”  the  main  theme  of  this  general  debate.  The 
main purpose of the United Nations is to settle disputes 
by peaceful means. We commend the skilful diplomacy 
of  the  Secretary-General  and  his  envoys  in  resolving 
disputes and conflicts in various corners of the world. 
Member States need to work together to strengthen the 
United Nations capacity to that end. 

North-East  Asia  is  a  region  where  mediation 
activities  can  be  vigorously  pursued.  The  region  still 
lacks a formal mechanism for building confidence and 
strengthening  regional  cooperation.  Therefore,  we 
believe that Mongolia’s proposal to set up a permanent 
mechanism  to  promote  peace  and  stability  in  North-
East Asia  remains  valid. We  are  ready  to  consult  with 
relevant countries to move forward with out proposal. 

On  11  September  10  years  ago,  terrorists  tore 
down the twin towers, but they failed to tear down the 
spirit of freedom they represented, and they will never 
succeed  in  doing  that.  Mongolia  stands  with  the 
international  community  in  its  fight  against  terrorism 
as  a  party  to  all  of  the  United  Nations  conventions  to 
combat terrorism. 
We  need  to  reinvigorate  our  resolve  to  attain  a 

world  free  of  nuclear  weapons  and  to  exploit  nuclear 
power solely for peaceful purposes. We were reminded 
of  the  urgency  and  importance  of  strengthening  the 
safety  and  security  of  nuclear  reactors  by  the  tragic 
accident at the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear power plant 
last March. 

We commend the Secretary-General’s initiative to 
hold  a  high-level  meeting  tomorrow  to  strengthen 
international  measures  for  nuclear  safety  and  security 
around the world. The 2010 Review Conference of the 
Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons gave renewed impetus for expanding 
nuclear  weapon-free  zones  around  the  world.  The 
proposed nuclear weapon-free zone in the Middle East 
would contribute to the promotion of world peace. 

further 
strengthening  its  internationally  recognized  nuclear 
weapon-free  status.  To  this  end,  we  are  holding 
consultations  with  nuclear  Powers.  From  the  highly 
esteemed  rostrum  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  would 
to  work  on 
Mongolia 
continues 
A/66/PV.12
is  marking 
this  year  Mongolia 
like  to  underscore  that  there  should  be  no  doubt  that 
Mongolia will never accede to the dumping of nuclear 
waste on its territory. It should go without saying that, 
in today’s world, any attempt to enforce such decisions 
would undoubtedly fail. 

It  is  of  historic  importance  to  us  that  the 
observance  of  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  Mongolia’s 
joining  this  global  Organization  coincides  with  this 
session of the General Assembly. On 27 October 1961, 
Mongolia became a full Member of the United Nations. 
It has opened new frontiers of active engagement with 
the  international  community  for  the  global  good. 
Furthermore, 
the 
2,220th  anniversary  of  its  statehood,  centenaries  of 
regaining  its  independence  and  the  establishment  of  a 
modern  diplomatic  service,  as  well  as  the  ninetieth 
anniversary of the people’s revolution. 

Over  the  past  five  decades,  cooperation  between 
Mongolia and the United Nations has expanded both in 
scope  and  substance.  Today  Mongolia  is  a  party  to 
more  than  240  multilateral  conventions  and  enjoys 
membership  in  over  110  international  organizations. 
United  Nations  assistance  and  cooperation  have  been 
instrumental 
in  developing  human  resources  and 
capacity-building,  developing  education,  health  and 
information 
and 
developing an adequate response to natural disasters. 

For  its  part,  Mongolia  has  also  endeavoured  to 
contribute  where  it  could  to  the  joint  efforts  of  the 
international  community.  My  delegation  is  pleased  to 
recall  that,  at  the  initiative  of  Mongolia,  the  General 
Assembly  adopted  the  Declaration  on  the  Rights  of 
Peoples  to  Peace,  the  principles  and  guidelines  for 
international  negotiations,  resolutions  on  the  annual 
observance of Disarmament Week, the  United Nations 
Literacy  Decade 
to 
cooperatives,  rural  women  and  landlocked  developing 
countries. Mongolian troops have courageously served 
in  the  blue  United  Nations  helmet  in  many  hotspots 
around 
the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, Western Sahara, South Sudan, 
Eritrea, Georgia, Sierra Leone, Chad and Darfur. 

All  in  all,  over  the  past  five  decades  Mongolia 
has  been  faithful  to  its  obligations  under  the  Charter 
and  striven  to  be  an  active  Member  State.  We  stand 
strongly  committed  to  further  contributing  to  the 
multifaceted  activities  of  the  United  Nations.  I  am 
pleased  to  announce  our  decision  to  present  our 
the  world, 
technology, 
including 
in 
reducing 
poverty 
and 
resolutions 
relating 
11-50702 

21 

A/66/PV.12 

candidature  for  a  non-permanent  seat  on  the  Security 
Council  for  the  term  2023-2024  at  the  elections  to  be 
held  at  the  seventy-seventh  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  and  humbly  seek  members’  valuable 
support. 

The  contribution  and  leadership  of  the  United 
Nations  in  maintaining  international  peace,  security 
and  promoting  sustainable  development  continue  to 
grow. In this respect, I call on the General Assembly to 
develop relevant solutions and decisions at this session 
aimed  at  supporting  the  aspirations  of  countries  and 
peoples to better livelihoods. 

The  day-to-day  activities  of  the  United  Nations 
are of paramount importance to the cause of creating a 
safe,  free  and  just  life  for  humankind,  in  which 
everyone  may  enjoy  integrity  and  dignity.  We  are 
confident  that  the  United  Nations  will  succeed  in  its 
continued reform efforts to this end. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  Mongolia 
for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Elbegdorj  Tsakhia,  President  of  Mongolia, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.  


Address by Mr. Jacob Zuma, President of the 
Republic of South Africa  

The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  hear 
an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of  South 
Africa. 

Mr.  Jacob  Zuma,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
South  Africa,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jacob  Zuma,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  South  Africa,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly. 

President  Zuma: On  behalf  of  the  Government 
and  the  people  of  South Africa,  I  wish  to  extend  our 
sincere 
to  Ambassador  Nassir 
Abdulaziz Al-Nasser on his election as President of the 
General Assembly. We wish him a successful tenure in 
the  stewardship  of  this  body  and  assure  him  of  our 
delegation’s  full  support.  We  also  congratulate  his 
predecessor, Mr. Joseph Deiss, for the diligent manner 
congratulations 
the 
the 
tragedy  and 
tenth  anniversary  of 
in  which  he  guided  the  work  of  the  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fifth session. 

I  would  further  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
congratulate Mr. Ban Ki-moon on his re-appointment as 
Secretary-General. 

It is also an honour for South Africa to welcome 
the  Republic  of  South  Sudan  to  the  community  of 
nations  as  the  193rd  State  Member  of  the  United 
Nations. 

This  month,  the  United  States  and  the  world 
marked 
the  horrendous 
terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001, which affected 
the United States and 89 other countries. That horrific 
incident  united 
international  community  and 
strengthened  its  resolve  to  cooperate  in  the  fight 
against terrorism. We pay our respects to the victims of 
the 
their  families.  We  reaffirm  our 
commitment  to  working  with  other  Member  States  to 
eradicate terrorism in all its forms and manifestations. 

The  theme  of  this  session  —  “The  role  of 
mediation  in  the  settlement  of  disputes  by  peaceful 
means”  —  is  timely  and  well  chosen.  The  Charter  of 
the  United  Nations  mandates  the  Organization  to 
utilize  mediation  as  one  of  the  tools  to  prevent  and 
resolve  conflicts  across 
the  globe.  The  role  of 
mediation  as  a  tool  for  the  settlement  of  disputes  has 
renewed relevance today, given the number of conflicts 
in  the  world. We  should  defend  the  independence  and 
impartiality  of  the  United  Nations  and  promote  the 
principles  of  its  Charter  during  conflicts  and  crises. 
The  United  Nations  should  never  take  sides  in  any 
conflict  but  should  always  maintain  its  impartiality. 
The United Nations must not allow itself to be used by 
any  country,  regardless  of  its  history  or  size.  All 
citizens  of  the  world  should  feel  confident  and  secure 
in  the  knowledge  that  the  United  Nations  is  above  all 
partisan interests and serves only those of the citizens 
of the globe. 
We  are  of  the  view  that  regional  organizations 

play a crucial role in the resolution of conflicts and in 
regional  mediation  processes.  The  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  itself  provides  for  the  role  of  regional 
organizations  in  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations. 
This  role  of  the  regions  must  always  be  enforced  and 
enhanced,  and  not  undermined.  In  our  continent,  the 
African Union (AU) continues to play a significant role 
in  mediation  and  the  resolution  of  conflicts,  trying  at 
22 

11-50702 
and 
an 
to 
end 
the  NATO 
imposition  was  necessary 


all  times  to  produce  African  solutions  to  African 
problems, of course with the support of the world. 

This year, the world witnessed the so-called Arab 
Spring  in  North  Africa  and  the  Middle  East.  With 
regard  to  the  situation  in  Libya,  the  AU  played  a 
crucial role in seeking a peaceful solution to the crisis, 
in  line  with  its  mandate  of  working  for  peace  and 
stability  in  the  continent.  However,  it  is  a  matter  of 
record  now  that  the  AU  efforts  were  never  given  a 
chance.  Military  actions  were  preferred  over  peaceful 
means. 

Nonetheless,  the AU  continues  to  be  seized  with 
the  Libyan  conflict,  as  it  should  be.  South  Africa, 
through the AU and the United Nations, will work with 
the National Transitional Council, the representative of 
the Libyan people, as it proceeds to form an inclusive 
transitional Government that will take the Libyan seat 
in  the  African  Union.  During  this  period  of  working 
towards  normalcy  in  Libya,  we  call  for  a  cessation  of 
hostilities 
aerial 
bombardment. We also call for the lifting of the no-fly 
zone,  whose 
the 
protection of civilians. 

The  proliferation  of  arms  in  Libya  is  a  major 
concern.  The  transitional  Government  will  need  to  be 
supported in addressing this security issue. It may pose 
a serious challenge affecting the entire subregion if it is 
not  adequately  attended  to.  We  also  urge  the  new 
Libyan  authorities  to  ensure  the  protection  of  migrant 
workers,  especially  those  from  sub-Saharan  African 
countries,  who  number  approximately  2.5  million. 
Immediate  measures  should  be  taken  to  put  an  end  to 
the  killing,  arbitrary  arrest  and  detention  of  migrant 
workers and black Libyans. 
We will fully support the people of Libya as they 

go  through  the  transition  towards  a  new,  united  and 
democratic  Libya  that  protects  human  rights,  human 
dignity and freedom. 
South  Africa  continues  to  support  international 

efforts  to  assist  the  people  of  Palestine  and  Israel  to 
find  lasting  peace.  The  decades-old  struggle  of  the 
Palestinian  people  for  a  sovereign  State  of  their  own 
has  now  reached  a  turning  point.  The  Palestinian 
Authority,  backed  by  the  League  of  Arab  States,  has 
stated its intention to seek United Nations membership 
for  the  State  of  Palestine.  South Africa  fully  supports 
this  position.  It  is  a  decisive  step  towards  achieving 
lasting peace, economic cooperation and prosperity for 
for 
A/66/PV.12
the  substantive  reform  of 
the millions of people in the Middle East, and we urge 
that it be viewed favourably. 

We  also  support  the  ongoing  struggle  for  self-
determination  of  the  people  of  Western  Sahara.  We 
urge the international community to support their quest 
for freedom, human rights and dignity. 
We  reiterate  our  call  for  the  lifting  of  the 

economic and financial embargo against the people of 
Cuba  in  order  to  help  them  gain  their  economic 
freedom. 

All  Member  States  have  a  duty  to  safeguard  the 
future  and  relevance  of  the  United  Nations.  Recent 
international developments have made more urgent our 
efforts  to  intensify  the  reform  agenda  of  the  United 
Nations,  particularly  the  Security  Council,  as  well  as 
the  Bretton  Woods  institutions.  No  reform  can  be 
complete  without 
the 
Security  Council,  whose  membership  must  be 
consistent with the principle of equitable geographical 
representation. In this  regard, we reiterate our  call for 
Africa  to  be  represented  in  the  category  of  permanent 
membership of the Security Council. 

is  preparing 
the 
international  community  and  all  stakeholders  to  the 
seventeenth session of the Conference of the Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change and to the seventh Meeting of the Parties to the 
Kyoto Protocol, in November and December this year. 
The success of the Conference is highly dependent on 
the willingness of all parties to reach an agreement. It 
does not depend on South Africa alone. As leaders, we 
are  accountable  to  the  global  citizenry,  the  ordinary 
people  that  suffer  daily  from  the  impacts  of  climate 
change. They hold high expectations of their leaders to 
be  responsible  and  to  find  effective  solutions  to  the 
threat  that  climate  change  poses  to  their  livelihood, 
quality  of  life,  dignity  and,  in  many  cases,  their  very 
survival. We dare not fail them. 
We  are  witnessing  the  catastrophic  effects  of 

famine  in  Somalia  and  neighbouring  countries.  Our 
response should not be left to the United Nations alone; 
it  requires  united  action  from  all  of  us.  South  Africa 
has  been  humbled  to  contribute  in  a  small  way  to  the 
alleviation of human suffering. The people of Somalia 
still need more support, and we urge the world to focus 
its  attention  more  sharply  on  Somalia  and 
its 
neighbours in the Horn of Africa. 
South  Africa 
to  welcome 
11-50702 

23 
It 

is 
that 
commendable 
time,  particularly 
On  8  January  2012, 
A/66/PV.12 


the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  their  realization  by  2015 
continue  to  feature  on  the  agenda  of  the  General 
Assembly.  We  now  have  four  years  to  go  before  we 
reach the target date. It is clear that many of the Goals 
will  not  be  attained  on 
in 
sub-Saharan  Africa.  We  call  on  the  international 
community and the United Nations to redouble efforts 
to assist countries that are lagging. 

At  this  session,  we  will  be  commemorating  the 
tenth  anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the  Durban 
Declaration and Programme of Action — the outcome 
document  of  the  World  Conference  against  Racism, 
Racial  Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and  Related 
Intolerance, which was held in Durban in 2001. Racism 
and  racial  discrimination  continue  to  pose  a  challenge 
to  humankind  and  to  negate  the  principles  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations. We  should  continue  to 
work together to eradicate the scourge of racism. 

the  African  National 
Congress  (ANC),  the  oldest  liberation  movement  in 
Africa,  will  mark  100  years  of  existence  since  its 
establishment  in  1912.  The  ANC  spearheaded  the 
struggle  against  racial  oppression,  colonialism  and 
apartheid  in  South  Africa.  It  inspired  many  in  the 
African  continent  to  fight  for  their  freedom  and 
independence from colonialism. 

The  United  Nations  declared  apartheid  a  crime 
against humanity and in that way endorsed the struggle 
against racial oppression in our country. The centenary 
of the ANC recognizes the immense contribution of the 
United  Nations  and  the  international  community  in 
working  to  eradicate  racism  and  racial  discrimination 
in the world. We will, tomorrow, host a symposium on 
South Africa’s contribution to the  fight  against racism 
and racial discrimination. 

Working  together,  let  us  remain  committed  to 
multilateralism  and  cooperation  in  this  session  of  the 
General  Assembly  and  beyond,  and  promote 
the 
realization of a more equitable and just world. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of South Africa for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Jacob  Zuma,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
South  Africa,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.  

Address by Mr. Andris Bērziņš, President of the 
Republic of Latvia  
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Latvia. 


the  outset,  I  wish 
President  Bērziņš:  At 
I  warmly  welcome  the  State  of  South  Sudan  as 
Mr.  Andris  Bērziņš,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Latvia,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr. Andris  Bērziņš,  President 
of the Republic of Latvia, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly. 
to 

congratulate  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  on  his 
assumption  of  the  post  of  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session.  I  assure  him  of  the 
fullest  cooperation  of  the  Latvian  delegation.  I  also 
congratulate  the  Secretary-General  on  his  re-appointment 
to  his  honourable  post  for  a  second  term.  I  wish  him  the 
greatest  success  and  strength  in  guiding  the  Organization 
and the Secretariat in all their complex tasks. 

the 193rd Member of the United Nations. 

Latvia  has  always  supported  strengthening  the 
United Nations as the only truly universal international 
organization.  However, 
the  United  Nations  must 
change and adapt to the new realities in order to deliver 
the  best 
influence.  The 
revitalization  of the General Assembly and the  reform 
of  other  principal  organs  are  essential  so  that  the 
United Nations can keep pace with the modern realities 
in  the  world  and  to  make  the  whole  of  its  work  more 
effective.  That  will  allow  consistent  adherence  to  the 
principles  of  sound  budgetary  discipline  and  a  fair 
distribution of expenses among the Member States.  

In the context of the global economic slowdown, 
we  welcome  the  initiative  of  the  Secretary-General  to 
cut the United Nations budget for 2012-2013 by 3 per 
cent, and we look forward to a constructive discussion 
on that matter. 

The  reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  long 
overdue.  We  call  on  all  partners  to  work  sincerely  on 
this important issue. Latvia is ready to assume greater 
international  responsibility  and  is  planning  to  engage 
results  and  sustain 
its 
24 

11-50702 


more actively in the Council’s work by putting forward 
its candidature for a non-permanent seat. 

This  year  marks  the  twentieth  anniversary  of 
Latvia’s  joining  the  United  Nations,  after  regaining 
independence. In those 20  years we have undergone  a 
complete 
transformation.  From  a  Soviet-occupied 
European  country  with  no  trace  on  the  political  map, 
Latvia  has  re-emerged  as  a  country  with  stable 
democratic  institutions  and  membership  in  the  United 
Nations,  the  European  Union  and  NATO.  From  a 
closed,  regulated  system  we  have  developed  an  open, 
liberal market economy. From a totalitarian regime we 
have grown into a democratic society where the rule of 
law  and  human  rights  are  respected.  Now  we  are  able 
to share our transformation experience by helping other 
countries in their own development. 

Important changes, often called the Arab Spring, 
have  started  in  North  Africa  and  the  Middle  East. 
People have gone to the streets demanding democratic 
reforms  and  influence  on  the  future  development  of 
their  countries.  The  international  community  has  to 
support  those  aspirations  and  assist  in  building  stable 
and trusted democratic institutions and establishing the 
rule of law. 

We  welcome  the  timely  reaction  of  the  United 
Nations  to  the  events  in  Libya,  such  as  the  Security 
Council’s  decision 
to  provide  humanitarian  and 
security  assistance  and  to  refer  the  case  to  the 
International Criminal Court. Latvia has recognized the 
National  Transitional  Council  of  Libya  and  supported 
the General Assembly decision to allow the Council to 
represent  Libya  at  this  session.  Joint  action  is  crucial, 
and  we  hope  that  the  United  Nations,  in  collaboration 
with  relevant  regional  actors,  will  continue  to  play  a 
leading role in Libya. 
We  support  the  Security  Council  presidential 

statement 
Syria 
(S/PRST/2011/16)  and  the  Human  Rights  Council 
decision to urgently dispatch a special mission to Syria 
(A/HRC/RES/S-16/1). The message is clear: violations 
of  human  rights  and  the  use  of  force  against  civilians 
are  totally  unacceptable  and  strongly  condemned  by 
the  international  community.  We  look  forward  to  an 
appropriate  follow-up  on  this  issue  in  the  Security 
Council. 

Today the international community has a historic 
responsibility  to  make  the  Middle  East  a  safer,  more 
prosperous and more democratic place to live. We must 
regarding 
events 
the 
in 
A/66/PV.12
if 
for 
the  Israelis  and 
is  possible  only 
the  preservation  of 
support the Middle East peace process with the goal of 
two  States,  Israel  and  Palestine,  living  side  by  side  in 
peace  and  security.  Latvia  strongly  encourages  both 
sides  to  resume  dialogue  without  delay.  Sustainable 
peace 
the 
Palestinians reach an agreement that takes into account 
the legitimate interests of both sides. The international 
community  —  the  United  Nations,  the  Quartet,  the 
Arab League and others — should act together to help 
both sides to return to the negotiation table. 

Turning to sustainable development, I would like 
to  stress  that  we  have  a  responsibility  to  future 
generations 
the  natural 
environment in the world. That responsibility includes 
an  obligation  to  ensure  that  the  resources  available  to 
us now are used in the most appropriate ways.  

In  order  to  address  the  challenges  posed  by 
climate  change,  joint  global  action  is  needed  with 
regard  to  emissions  reduction  and  global  warming. 
Later  this  year,  the  next  United  Nations  Climate 
Change  Conference,  in  Durban,  will  take  important 
decisions. Any proposed agreement on climate change 
action  should  be  a  reasonable  compromise  that  is 
acceptable for the majority of participating Parties and 
does not exclude any of the major economies. 

In  order  to  achieve  sustainable  development, 
protecting  the  environment  and  preserving  a  healthy 
society  are  most  important.  However,  in  the  twenty-
first century we face a new challenge: non-communicable 
diseases. We  commend  the  High-level  Meeting  on  the 
Prevention 
and  Control  of  Non-communicable 
Diseases  and  the  adoption  of  the  Political  Declaration 
(resolution 66/2, annex). We hope that we will have an 
effective follow-up process. 
The economic crisis has reminded us that we live 

in an interdependent world. We are deeply worried by 
the  level  of  uncertainty  and  volatility  in  international 
trade and financial markets. The primary responsibility 
for prudent governance is at a national level. However, 
in  the  current  situation  the  international  community 
must  once  again  act  together  and  find  sustainable 
stabilization  measures  in  order  to  prevent  another 
downturn in the global economy. 

My country, Latvia, was one of those hit first and 
hard by the crisis but now is among the countries that 
are steadily recovering. Our gross domestic product is 
growing  again  and  unemployment  is  falling.  The 
recovery of the Latvian  economy can teach us several 
11-50702 

25 
A/66/PV.12 

simple  lessons.  First  is  the  importance  of  acting 
quickly and decisively in adopting austerity measures. 
Secondly, in order to carry out structural reforms, there 
is  a  strong  need  to  communicate  and  to  engage  with 
society.  The  third  and  final  lesson,  of  course,  is  the 
value of international solidarity. 

We  face  a  large  number  of  transnational  threats, 
including  terrorism.  This  year,  we  commemorate  the 
tenth  anniversary  of  the  tragic  terrorist  attacks  of 
11 September  2001.  We  express  our  solidarity  and 
sympathy with the victims of 9/11 and others who have 
been affected by terrorism all over the world. 

As we combat terrorism, we must also analyse its 
root  causes.  Our  aim  in  Afghanistan  is  to  help  to 
stabilize  the  security  situation  and  to  build  local 
democratic institutions. That will empower the Afghan 
Government  to  take  over  responsibility  for  security 
throughout the country by 2014. A sustainable solution 
in  Afghanistan  can  be  found  only  if  regional  actors, 
including  the  Central  Asian  countries,  are  part  of  the 
process.  Joint  action  is  needed  to  unlock  economic 
opportunities, 
security 
cooperation and to develop infrastructure and transport 
corridors  in  order  to  connect  Afghanistan  with  the 
region and the rest of the world. 
In  addition  to  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  in 

maintaining 
the 
importance  of  regional  organizations  is  increasing.  In 
that  context,  we  draw  attention  to  the  protracted 
conflicts in Europe in Transdniestria, Abkhazia, South 
Regional 
Ossetia 
organizations  —
the 
Organization 
in 
Europe —  must  continue  working  to  seek  peaceful 
solutions. Good cooperation with the United Nations is 
crucial. 
international  peace  and  security, 
the  EU  and 
and  Cooperation 
Nagorno-Karabakh. 
in 
this  case, 
to 
strengthen 
regional 
and 
for  Security 


In  that  regard,  let  me  emphasize  the  principled 
and  consistent  position  of  Latvia  and  the  EU  in 
supporting  the  peaceful  settlement  of  conflicts  and 
values  such  as  democracy,  the  rule  of  law  and  the 
protection of human rights. Those lie at the core of the 
EU foreign policy strategy. 

This  year,  we  carried  out  the  review  process  of 
the  functioning  of  the  main  United  Nations  human 
rights body — the Human Rights Council. Latvia saw 
that review process as a unique opportunity to improve 
the performance and credibility of that important body. 
We  took  note  of  the  outcome  of  the  review  process 
(resolution  65/281,  annex).  However,  we  believe  that 
much more could have been done to enable the Council 
to live up to the expectations of countries and people. 

Latvia  believes  that  members  of  the  Human 
Rights  Council  must  lead  by  example  through  full 
commitment to the promotion and protection of human 
rights.  Latvia  attaches  the  greatest  importance  to  that 
commitment  by  putting  forward  its  candidacy  for  the 
Human Rights Council elections in the year 2014. 

Challenges  to  global  security,  development  and 
human  rights  can  be  overcome  only  by  our  joint 
efforts.  Latvia  looks  forward  to  a  fruitful  sixty-sixth 
session of the General Assembly. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Latvia for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Andris  Bērziņš,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Latvia,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
  The meeting rose at 6.05 p.m. 

26 

11-50702 
