
A/66/PV.46
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

46th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 1 November 2011, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 









  The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m. 
of 
Mr.  Amano
in  Arabic): I 
Agenda item 86 
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency 

  Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the 
report of the International Atomic Energy 
Agency (A/66/95) 
  Draft resolution (A/66/L.6) 
The  President  (spoke 


invite 
Mr. Yukiya  Amano,  Director  General 
the 
International Atomic  Energy Agency,  to  introduce  the 
report of the Agency for the year 2010.  

(International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency):  Since  11  March,  the  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency  (IAEA)  has  been  working  on  the  very 
serious  accident  at  the  Fukushima  Daiichi  nuclear 
power  plant  in  Japan.  I  will  therefore  begin  by 
reflecting  on  that  accident  and  its  aftermath,  before 
talking about other aspects of our work. 

the  accident  at 
Fukushima Daiichi was caused by an earthquake and a 
tsunami  of  unprecedented  severity,  which  struck 
eastern Japan on 11 March. The IAEA has been doing 
everything  it  can  to  help  Japan  bring  the  situation  at 
the site under control and to mitigate the consequences 
of  the  accident.  The  Japanese  authorities  and  the 
operator  have  been  working  steadily  to  stabilize  the 
reactors  and  are  now  confident  that  the  so-called  cold 
shutdown will be achieved by the end of the year. The 
IAEA  will  continue  to  assist  Japan  as  it  tackles  the 

the  Assembly  knows, 
As 
challenging  work  of  decontamination  and  remediation 
in the affected areas. 

In September, our 151 member States endorsed a 
12-point  IAEA  Action  Plan  on  Nuclear  Safety.  Key 
elements of the Action Plan include an agreement that 
all  countries  with  nuclear  power  programmes  will 
promptly  undertake  what  have  become  known  as 
“stress  tests”  of  their  nuclear  power  plants.  The 
framework  for  expert  peer  reviews  by  the  IAEA  of 
operational  safety  at  nuclear  power  plants  is  being 
strengthened.  The  effectiveness  of  national  and 
international  emergency  preparedness  and  response 
arrangements,  IAEA  safety  standards  and  relevant 
international conventions will also be reviewed.  

The  Action  Plan  represents  a  significant  step 
forward.  It  is  vital  that  it  be  fully  implemented  in  all 
countries with nuclear power and that the right lessons 
be learned from the Fukushima Daiichi accident. 

I would like to express my gratitude to Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  having  convened  a  high-
level  meeting  on  nuclear  safety  and  security 
in 
September  and  bringing  United  Nations  system 
organizations  together  to  collaborate  on  this  issue. 
Nuclear  safety  is  the  responsibility  of  individual 
countries,  but  the  IAEA  —  the  only  international 
organization  with  expertise  in  all  aspects  of  nuclear 
energy — will play the leading role in shaping a safer 
nuclear future throughout the world. 

Despite the accident, the IAEA’s latest projection 
is that the number of operating nuclear reactors in the 
world will continue to increase steadily in the coming 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-57396 (E) 
*1157396* 




the  year 
A/66/PV.46 

decades,  although  less  rapidly  than  was  anticipated 
before  the  accident.  Most  of  the  growth  will  occur  in 
countries  that  already  have  operating  nuclear  power 
plants,  such  as  China  and  India.  Many  developing 
countries  still  plan  to  introduce  nuclear  power  in  the 
coming years. The factors contributing to encouraging 
interest  in  nuclear  power  have  not  changed.  These 
factors  include  increasing  global  demand  for  energy, 
concerns  about  climate  change,  volatile  fossil  fuel 
prices and the security of energy supplies. 

Nuclear security remains an extremely important 
issue for all States. In September, we marked the tenth 
anniversary of the 11 September 2011 terrorist attacks 
in  the  United  States.  In  the  wake  of  those  attacks,  the 
Agency  significantly  expanded  its  nuclear  security 
programme to help countries protect nuclear and other 
radioactive  material  and  associated  facilities  against 
malicious acts. 

The  number  of  States  participating  in  our  Illicit 
Trafficking Database programme continues to grow; it 
now  stands  at  113.  In 
to  June  2011, 
172 incidents  were  reported  to  the  Database.  Fourteen 
involved  activities  such  as  unauthorized  possession 
and/or  attempts  to  sell  or  smuggle  nuclear  material  or 
radioactive sources. Another 32 incidents involved the 
theft  or  loss  of  nuclear  or  other  radioactive  material. 
Incidents  of  this  nature  demonstrate  that  security 
weaknesses continue to exist and must be addressed. I 
look forward to attending the second Nuclear Security 
Summit,  to  be  hosted  by  the  Republic  of  Korea  in 
March. 

I note once again that progress towards the entry 
into force of the Amendment to the Convention on the 
Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear  Material  remains  slow, 
six  years  after 
the 
Amendment can significantly reduce the risk of nuclear 
material falling into the wrong hands. I encourage the 
parties to the Convention to work towards accelerating 
the entry into force of the Amendment. 
In  the  area  of  nuclear  applications,  one  major 

success  story  deserves  special  attention  — 
the 
worldwide  eradication  of  the  deadly  cattle  disease 
rinderpest.  Rinderpest  is,  in  fact,  the  first  animal 
disease  ever  to  be  eliminated,  which  is  a  momentous 
achievement  and  of  enormous  economic  benefit  to 
many  developing  countries.  The  net  benefit  to  Africa 
alone  is  estimated  at  more  than  $1  billion  per  year. 
Together  with  the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization 
its  adoption.  Adherence 
to 
The 
same 
technologies  used 
In  September,  we 
of  the  United  Nations,  the  World  Organisation  for 
Animal  Health,  the African  Union  and  other  partners, 
the  IAEA  played  an  important  part  in  eliminating  this 
disease. Our role included making available affordable 
diagnostic techniques and training veterinary staff. 

to  eliminate 
rinderpest  are  now  being  successfully  applied  to 
diagnose  and  control  other 
transboundary  animal 
diseases.  In  Mongolia,  for  example, 
the  Agency 
assisted  in  the  successful  control  of  a  devastating 
outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease that threatened the 
entire livestock population of about 50 million animals. 

The Agency has paid special attention this year to 
nuclear  techniques  related  to  water.  That  was  the 
subject  of  our  annual  scientific  forum  in  September, 
which  was  attended  by 
leading  scientists  and 
Government  officials.  Nearly  1  billion  people  lack 
access  to  adequate  drinking  water.  The  Agency  can 
help countries to undertake comprehensive assessments 
of  water  resources  by  making  available  unique 
information provided through the techniques of isotope 
hydrology. I will say more on this subject in a moment. 

fiftieth 
anniversary  of  the  opening  of  the  IAEA  Environment 
Laboratories  in  Monaco.  The  Laboratories  have  made 
an  outstanding  contribution  to  protecting  our  oceans 
and  seas  by  developing  advanced  analytical  methods 
and 
assessing  marine 
reference  materials 
radioactivity and pollution. 

technical  cooperation  programme 
provides  essential  support  to  Member  States  in  every 
region.  Through 
the  programme,  Member  States 
address national development priorities in fields where 
nuclear 
techniques  offer  advantages  over  other 
approaches  or  can  usefully  supplement  them.  New 
resources for the technical cooperation programme as a 
whole 
from 
$112.2 million in 2009. Nuclear safety was the largest 
area  of  activity  overall,  followed  by  human  health, 
food and agriculture. 

In September, the General Assembly held a High-
Level  Meeting  on  non-communicable  diseases.  IAEA 
human  health  projects  and 
technical  cooperation 
projects  on  water  management  and  identification  of 
pollution 
address 
non-communicable diseases, including cancer, diabetes 
and water-borne illnesses. 
to  $127.7  million 
The  IAEA 
celebrated 
the 
countries 
to 
sources 
help 
for 
rose 
in  2010, 
2 

11-57396 
the  IAEA.  That 
technical  cooperation  project 


In  the  field  of  water,  I  would  like  to  mention  a 

very  promising 
in 
El Salvador, where the Agency has helped to establish 
a  permanent  monitoring  system  to  provide  early 
warnings  of  harmful  algal  blooms.  If  undetected,  they 
can enter the food chain and cause serious, sometimes 
fatal,  illness.  El  Salvador’s  fishing  communities  are 
benefiting  directly  from  nuclear  technologies  that 
provide  faster  and  more  accurate  warnings  of  algal 
blooms, and  make it possible to close selected fishing 
grounds during danger periods. 

In  Kenya,  a  drip  irrigation  project,  supported  by 
the IAEA, has helped the Maasai people to grow more 
crops  for  both  animal  and  human  consumption.  In 
addition  to  conserving  precious  water  resources,  the 
project has made it possible for more parents to afford 
schooling for their children. 

Turning  to  nuclear  verification,  I  am  pleased  to 
note  that  112  countries  have  brought  into  force 
additional  protocols  to  their  safeguards  agreements 
with 
is  very  encouraging.  The 
additional  protocol  is  an  essential  tool  for  the Agency 
to  be  able  to  provide  credible  assurance  not  only  that 
declared  nuclear  material  is  not  being  diverted  from 
peaceful  uses,  but  also  that  there  are  no  undeclared 
nuclear materials and activities in a country. I strongly 
hope that the remaining States will conclude additional 
protocols  as  soon  as  possible. 
the 
14 non-nuclear-weapon  States  parties  to  the Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  without 
safeguards  agreements  in  force  to  implement  them 
without delay. 
I have continued to report regularly to our Board 

of  Governors  on 
implementation  of  Agency 
safeguards  in  a  number  of  countries.  IAEA  reports  on 
the  implementation  of  safeguards  in  Iran  have  been 
sent  to  the  Security  Council  since  2006.  In  my  recent 
reports, I stated that Iran is not providing the necessary 
cooperation  to  enable  the Agency  to  conclude  that  all 
nuclear  materials 
in  Iran  are  used  for  peaceful 
activities.  I  urge  Iran  to  take  steps  towards  the  full 
implementation  of  all  relevant  obligations  in  order  to 
establish  international  confidence  in  the  exclusively 
peaceful nature of its nuclear programme. 

In the case of Syria, the Agency recently came to 
the  conclusion  that  it  is  very  likely  that  a  building 
destroyed at the Dair Alzour site in 2007 was a nuclear 
reactor  that  should  have  been  declared  to  the Agency. 
I  also  ask 
the 
A/66/PV.46
light-water  reactor 
in 
for  several  months. 
The  nuclear  programme  of 
In June, the IAEA Board of Governors found Syria to 
be in non-compliance with its safeguards obligations. It 
reported  that  non-compliance  to  the  Security  Council 
and the General Assembly. 

the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea remains a matter of serious 
concern. As  may  be  known,  the Agency  has  not  been 
able  to  implement  any  safeguards  measures  in  that 
country since April 2009. Last year’s reports about the 
construction of a new uranium enrichment facility and 
a 
that  country  are  deeply 
troubling.  I  continue  to  urge  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  to  fully  implement  all  relevant 
resolutions  of  the  IAEA  General  Conference  and  the 
Security Council. 

Our  efforts  to  improve  the  analytical  capability 
and  security  of  the  Agency’s  safeguards  laboratories 
have  made  excellent  progress.  The  new  extension  to 
the Clean Laboratory for Safeguards, near Vienna, was 
completed  on  time  and  slightly  under  budget,  and  has 
been  operational 
It  greatly 
improves the Agency’s ability to independently analyse 
environmental samples for safeguards. 

IAEA  General 
Conference  tasked  the  Director  General  with  making 
arrangements to convene a forum, at which participants 
from the Middle East and other interested parties could 
learn  from  the  experience  of  nuclear-weapon-free 
in  other  regions.  My 
zones  already  established 
consultations  with  member  States 
that 
conditions are now favourable for the holding of such a 
forum.  I  have  therefore  decided  to  convene  the  forum 
in Vienna on 21 and 22 November. It will consider the 
relevance  to  the  Middle  East  of  the  experience  of 
Africa,  the  South  Pacific,  South-East  Asia,  Central 
Asia,  and  Latin  America  and 
in 
establishing  nuclear-weapon-free  zones.  I  hope  that  it 
will be a successful meeting. 

briefing. 

to introduce draft resolution A/66/L.6. 
Mr. Ragaglini (Italy): First of all, I wish to thank 

Director General Amano for his report on the activities 
of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) in 
2010 
to  express  my  deep 
appreciation for his skilful leadership of the Agency. I 
The  President:  I  thank  Mr.  Amano  for  his 
I now give the floor to the representative of Italy 
(see  A/66/95)  and 
the  Caribbean 
In  September 
2000, 
the 
showed 
11-57396 

3 

to  ensuring 
A/66/PV.46 

also  pay  tribute  to  the  efforts  of  the  Agency  and  its 
staff after the tragic disaster that struck Japan this past 
March,  proving  once  again 
the  centrality  and 
fundamental importance of their work. Let me take this 
opportunity  to  renew  my  solidarity  with  the  Japanese 
people for the suffering caused by the most devastating 
tsunami, as well as my admiration for their resilience.  

I take the floor today to introduce, under agenda 
item  86,  draft  resolution A/66/L.6,  entitled  “Report  of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency”,  because 
Italy  was  elected  Chair  of  the  Agency’s  Board  of 
Governors  for  the  2011-2012  period.  Indeed,  it  is  a 
great  honour  for  my  country.  We  look  forward  to 
working  together  with  the  States  members  of  the 
Agency,  the  Director  General  and  his  staff  in  the 
coming  months  to  further  strengthen  its  fulfilment  of 
its mandate. 
Italy is firmly convinced that safety, security and 

nuclear  safeguards  are  essential 
the 
peaceful use of nuclear energy to protect the health of 
the population and the integrity of the environment. We 
advocate  a  strong  international  nuclear  regime  to 
guarantee that commitments and obligations under the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
(NPT)  are  verified  through  the  strict  and  independent 
monitoring  of  the  Agency.  We  will  continue  our 
traditional  commitment 
its 
responsibilities 
activities,  bearing 
incumbent upon the Chair of the Board of Governors. 
The Fukushima Daiichi disaster has dramatically 

underlined 
international 
cooperation  on  nuclear  safety.  We  all  know  that  the 
effects  of  a  severe  nuclear  accident  do  not  stop  at 
national  borders. Therefore,  the  ongoing  improvement 
of  nuclear  safety  must  be  a  common  goal  for  us  all. 
There  is  a  growing  consensus  worldwide  towards  the 
adoption  of  concrete  measures  to  that  end  without 
further delay, and the Agency has a leading role to play 
in that endeavour. 

the  General 
Conference’s  recent  adoption  of  the  Action  Plan  on 
Nuclear Safety. We are ready to consider new measures 
to  strengthen  the  international  nuclear  safety  regime, 
and call for universal adherence to all the international 
conventions adopted under the auspices of the Agency 
that are crucial to the international safety regime. 
Reducing the risk of access to and malicious use 

of nuclear material by non-State actors is a shared goal 
therefore  pleased  with 
the  full  range  of 
to  strengthen 
the  need 
in  mind 
We  are 
the 
to 
to 
the 
is 
in 
the 
and 
Italy 
through 
training 
advanced 
interested 
success  of 
international  community. 
fully 
of 
the  process  of 
committed 
strengthening  national  measures  and 
international 
cooperation on nuclear security along the lines agreed 
to  in  the  Washington,  D.C.,  communiqué  and  plan  of 
work.  

We  strongly  support  an  enhanced  role  for  the 
Agency and its nuclear security programme, and we are 
strengthening  national 
particularly 
capacities 
the 
development  of  a  nuclear  security  culture.  One 
concrete initiative in this area is the first course of the 
International  School  on  Nuclear  Security,  inaugurated 
in April  under  the  auspices  of  the  Italian  Government 
and  in  collaboration  with  the  Agency  and  the  Abdus 
Salam  International  Centre  for  Theoretical  Physics 
(ICTP)  at  its  premises  in  Trieste.  As  a  result  of  the 
positive evaluation of this first course, Italy intends to 
develop  the  school  further  and  offer  it  on  a  regular 
basis,  in  cooperation  with  the  Agency  and  the  ICTP 
and with the support of other donors. 

Strengthening the international safeguards regime 
remains  one  of  the  shared  goals  of  the  Agency’s 
member  States.  Italy  upholds  the  Agency’s  role  in 
verifying  the  full  compliance  of  States  with  their 
non-proliferation  obligations  in  accordance  with  the 
comprehensive  safeguards  agreement. That  is  why  we 
hope to see the additional protocol universally adopted, 
which would significantly increase the Agency’s ability 
to verify through the agreement the peaceful use of all 
nuclear material held by States.  

To  achieve  a  world  without  weapons  of  mass 
destruction, every country must shoulder this collective 
responsibility  and  do  its  utmost  to  advance  our 
non-proliferation 
agenda.  We 
strongly believe that the goals set  at the 2010 Review 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  NPT  are  achievable, 
and we continue to support the efforts of the Secretary-
General  and  the  three  NPT  depositary  States  to 
convene  an  international  conference  in  2012  on  the 
establishment of a zone free of nuclear weapons and all 
other  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  their  delivery 
systems in the Middle East. 
The peaceful use of nuclear energy is still one of 

the  Agency’s  main  goals.  We  believe 
the 
development of safe technology is extremely important 
to the improvement of nuclear applications worldwide, 
as  is  addressing  global  challenges  and  promoting  the 
and  disarmament 
that 
4 

11-57396 
the  draft 
to  fostering 
resolution  “Report  of 


relevant  Millennium  Development  Goal  through  the 
adoption  of  carefully  designed  technical  cooperation 
programmes.  We  are  committed 
the 
Agency’s  activities  in  developing  nuclear  applications 
aimed  at  achieving  medical  and  scientific  advances  in 
the areas of human health, food and agriculture, water 
resources  and  the  protection  of  the  environment. 
Despite  the  present  international  financial  situation, 
support  for  the  Technical  Cooperation  Fund  and  the 
activities  under  it  to  be  promoted  by  the  Agency 
remains of key importance. 

In Italy’s capacity as Chair of the Agency’s Board 
of  Governors,  allow  me  to  introduce,  under  agenda 
item  86, 
the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency”,  contained  in 
document  A/66/L.6,  on  behalf  of  Albania,  Argentina, 
Armenia,  Australia,  Austria,  Bangladesh,  Belarus, 
Belgium,  Benin,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Botswana, 
Brazil,  Bulgaria,  Burundi,  Cameroon,  Canada,  Chile, 
Colombia,  Croatia,  Cyprus,  the  Czech  Republic,  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  Denmark,  the 
Dominican  Republic,  Egypt,  El  Salvador,  Eritrea, 
Estonia,  Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France,  Georgia, 
Germany,  Greece,  Guatemala,  Guinea,  Hungary, 
Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iraq,  Ireland,  Japan,  Jordan, 
Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Latvia,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Madagascar,  Malaysia,  Malta,  Monaco, 
Mongolia, Montenegro, the Netherlands, New Zealand, 
Nigeria,  Norway,  Pakistan,  Panama,  Paraguay,  Peru, 
the  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal,  the  Republic  of 
Korea, the Republic of Moldova, Romania, the Russian 
Federation,  Senegal,  Serbia,  Singapore,  Slovakia, 
Slovenia,  Spain,  Swaziland,  Sweden,  Switzerland, 
Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, 
Tonga,  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Turkey,  Ukraine,  the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
the  United  Republic  of Tanzania,  the  United  States  of 
America, Uruguay and Zambia, as well as on behalf of 
Italy. 

As  in  previous  years,  the  consensus  text,  the 
result  of  consultations 
in  Vienna,  notes  with 
appreciation  the  report  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency;  takes  note  of  the  resolutions  adopted 
at  the  fifty-fifth  regular  session  of  the  IAEA  General 
Conference  held  from  19  to  23  September;  reaffirms 
the  General  Assembly’s  strong  support 
the 
Agency’s 
in  encouraging  and 
assisting  the  development  and  practical  application  of 
atomic energy for peaceful uses, in technology transfer 
indispensable 
role 
for 
A/66/PV.46
the 
report 
in  assisting 
We  are  pleased 
(see  A/66/95)  of 
to  developing  countries  and 
in  nuclear  safety, 
verification and security; and appeals to Member States 
to continue to support the Agency’s activities. The draft 
resolution  is  also  open  to  further  sponsorship,  of 
course, and it is the hope of the sponsors that it will be 
adopted by consensus. 
Mr. Vrailas (European Union): I have the honour 

to speak on behalf of the European Union (EU) and its 
member States. 
to  support  draft  resolution 

the 
A/66/L.6  on 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  which 
again  reaffirms  the  indispensable  role  of  the  Agency 
with regard to the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons 
and 
the  development  and  practical 
application of atomic energy for peaceful uses, as well 
as in technology transfer to developing countries and in 
nuclear safety, verification and security. 
This  year  has  been  overshadowed  by  the  tragic 

consequences  of  the  earthquake  and  tsunami  in  Japan 
on  11  March,  which  led  to  the  accident  at  the 
Fukushima  Daiichi  nuclear  power  plant.  The  accident 
at  Fukushima  has  changed  the  landscape  of  nuclear 
safety  worldwide,  and  presents  a  strong  challenge  to 
the  IAEA  and  the  wider  international  community. The 
EU  has  sought  to  play  its  part  in  meeting  this 
challenge. The  EU-Japan  summit  of  28  May  signalled 
enhanced  EU-Japanese  cooperation  in  promoting  the 
highest standards of nuclear safety worldwide, working 
in particular through the IAEA and the Group of Eight 
and Group of 20 processes. 

The  Ministerial  Conference  on  Nuclear  Safety 
organized by the IAEA in June, in which the EU took 
an  active  part,  began  the  process  of  ensuring  that  we, 
the  international  community,  draw  lessons  from  this 
accident  and  work  to  implement  them  in  order  to 
ensure  the  implementation  of  the  highest  standards  of 
nuclear  safety  globally.  The  EU  welcomes 
the 
declaration  that  emerged  from  the  June  meeting, 
followed by the IAEA’s Action Plan on Nuclear Safety. 
We  appreciate 
the  Secretary-General’s  high-level 
meeting  on  nuclear  safety,  which  took  place  in  the 
margins of the General Assembly on 22 September. 

International  cooperation  is  crucial  to  promoting 
the global nuclear safety framework. In the light of the 
Fukushima accident, the EU is undertaking, as a matter 
of  priority,  a  review  of  the  safety  of  all  EU  nuclear 
power  plants  on  the  basis  of  a  comprehensive  and 
11-57396 

5 

to 
remains 
In  2009, 
The  EU 
committed 
this  July  on 
the  agreement  on  a  process 
A/66/PV.46 

transparent  risk  and  safety  assessment,  or  stress  tests. 
Neighbouring and other countries have been invited to 
participate  in  these  tests  with  the  involvement  of  the 
IAEA and other relevant international organizations. In 
parallel  with  the  stress  tests,  the  EU  will  conduct  a 
review  of  the  existing  European  legal  and  regulatory 
framework for the safety of nuclear installations, to be 
completed by the end of this year. 

the  EU  adopted  a  nuclear  safety 
directive,  giving  binding  legal  force  in  all  27  EU 
member States to the main nuclear safety standards. A 
similar  directive  was  adopted 
the 
responsible  and  safe  management  of  spent  fuel  and 
radioactive waste. 

effective 
multilateral action against the proliferation of weapons 
of  mass  destruction.  We  therefore  welcomed  the 
consensus  reached  at  the  2010  Review  Conference  of 
the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons (NPT). The action plan agreed on, as 
well  as 
the 
implementation  of  the  1995  resolution  on  the  Middle 
East,  including  a  conference  to  be  convened  in  2012, 
demonstrated  our  common  resolve  not  only  to  uphold 
but  also  to  strengthen  the  nuclear  non-proliferation 
regime.  

The EU organized a seminar in Brussels on 6 and 
7  July  to  contribute  to  the  process  for  the  2012 
seminar  allowed 
conference.  The 
inclusive 
participation  and 
for  an  open  and  constructive 
exchange  of  views  on  the  creation  of  a  zone  free  of 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  in  the  Middle  East.  We 
now  look  forward  to  the  IAEA  forum  to  be  convened 
by  the  IAEA  Director  General,  which  will  take  place 
on  21  and  22  November  in  Vienna.  This  spirit  of 
cooperation  on  the  road  to  the  2012  conference  is 
laudable, and we should all work to maintain it. 

The 2010 NPT Review Conference reaffirmed the 
role of the IAEA in verifying and assuring compliance 
by States with their safeguards obligations, with a view 
to  preventing  the  diversion  of  nuclear  material  from 
peaceful  uses.  The  EU  remains  deeply  concerned  by 
the  protracted  and 
the 
non-proliferation regime posed by the Islamic Republic 
of  Iran,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
and  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic,  as  reported  by  the 
Director  General  of  the  IAEA.  The  EU  reaffirms  its 
understanding  of  the  role  of  the  Security  Council,  as 
serious  challenges 
for 
for 
to 
in 
in 
the 
the 
that 
action 
important 
to  ensure 
appropriate 
indispensable  role 
The  Agency’s  system  of  safeguards 
the final arbiter of international peace and security, in 
event 
taking 
of 
non-compliance  with  NPT  obligations, 
including 
safeguards agreements. 

is  a 
fundamental  component  of  the  nuclear  non-proliferation 
regime  and  plays  an 
the 
implementation  of  the  NPT.  In  that  respect,  the  EU 
would  like  to  express  its  strongest  regret  that,  during 
the fifty-fifth session of the IAEA General Conference, 
no  resolution  was  adopted  on  strengthening 
the 
effectiveness  and  improving  the  efficiency  of  the 
safeguards  system  and  application  of 
the  Model 
Additional Protocol. This was the first session in which 
the  resolution  on  strengthening  safeguards  was  not 
adopted  by  the  IAEA’s  General  Conference.  The  EU 
calls  on  the  Agency  and  the  member  States  to  work 
together 
issue  of 
safeguards  is  properly  addressed  at  the  fifty-sixth 
regular session of the General Conference of the IAEA. 

The  EU  reiterates  its  view  that  the  measures 
contained  in  the  Model  Additional  Protocol  form  an 
integral  part  of  the  IAEA  safeguards  system,  and  that 
comprehensive  safeguards  agreements,  together  with 
the  current  IAEA 
additional  protocols,  constitute 
verification 
the 
universalization  of  those  two  essential  instruments  of 
the IAEA safeguards system without delay. 

The EU is of the view that countries considering 
or  planning  to  include  nuclear  power  in  their  energy 
strategies should closely cooperate with the IAEA so as 
to  ensure  that  the  most  stringent  legal,  operational, 
safety,  security  and  non-proliferation  conditions  are 
met. The EU remains firmly convinced of the benefits 
of multilateral approaches to the nuclear fuel cycle. 

In  line  with  the  NPT  conclusions  on  this  matter, 
the EU welcomes the steps taken to establish an IAEA 
low-enriched  uranium  bank  and  reaffirms  the  EU’s 
commitment  to  providing  financial  support  for  the 
endeavour.  The  financing  could  comprise  up 
to 
€20 million  from  the  Instrument  for  Stability,  plus  an 
additional  contribution  of  up  to  €5  million  via  a 
European Union Common Foreign and Security Policy 
decision. 

We  face  a  new  era  of  threats  from  non-State 
actors,  particularly  terrorists  who  seek  to  acquire 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  and  related  technology 
and  materials,  one  of  the  potentially  most  destructive 
standard.  The  EU 
calls 
for 
6 

11-57396 
is 
to 
in 
through 
through 
the 
actively 
the  EU 
Following 
supporting 
the  EU  Strategy  against 


risks  to  global  security.  In  the  light  of  the  ongoing 
threats, 
the 
implementation  of  Security  Council  resolutions  1540 
(2004)  and 1887 (2009), as well as  a number of other 
international initiatives.  

successful  Nuclear  Security 
Summit on 13 April 2010 in Washington, D.C., the EU 
looks  forward  to  the  follow-up  summit  in  Seoul  in 
March 2012, dedicated to reinforcing the commitments 
towards improving nuclear security worldwide.  
The EU supports the important role played by the 

IAEA  in  advancing  the  objectives  of  the  Nuclear 
Security  Summit. The  EU  supports  IAEA  activities  in 
the  areas  of  nuclear  security  in  the  framework  of  the 
implementation  of 
the 
Proliferation  of  Weapons  of  Mass  Destruction.  The 
European Union is one of the main contributors to the 
IAEA’s  Nuclear  Security  Fund 
its  own 
contributions  and 
the  contributions  of 
individual  EU  member  States,  with  a  level  of  funding 
of around €30 million by the end of 2010.  

In that respect, the EU welcomes the fact that, in 
the  IAEA’s  regular  budget,  there  is  an  increased 
proportion for the funding of nuclear security activities 
in  the  2012-2013  programme  and  budget.  Effective 
physical  protection  is  of  the  utmost  importance  to 
prevent nuclear material from falling into the hands of 
terrorists  or  its  accidental  misuse,  and  to  protect 
nuclear 
facilities  against  unauthorized  use  and 
malicious  acts.  The  EU  therefore  urges  all  States  that 
have  not  yet  done  so 
the 
Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear 
Material and its Amendment. 

The  EU  has  also  been  a  strong  supporter  of  the 
IAEA  technical  cooperation  programme.  We  value  its 
role 
the  responsible  development  of  peaceful 
applications  of  nuclear  technology  in  the  areas  of 
human  health,  food  and  agriculture,  water  resources, 
the  environment  and  nuclear  energy,  stressing  nuclear 
and  radiation  safety  in  participating  member  States. 
The  EU  greatly  values  the  contribution  of  technical 
cooperation  programme  projects  to  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

The European Union uses several of its financial 
instruments to support both the IAEA and cooperation 
with  third  countries  in  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear 
energy and technology, with a total amount of at least 
is 
€150  million  per  year.  Part  of 
to  become  party 
this  funding 
A/66/PV.46
to 
the  General  Assembly  for 
implemented  in  third  countries  through  the  IAEA’s 
Technical  Cooperation  Fund,  to  which  the  EU  and  its 
member States are the first contributor. 
Ms. Sodov (Mongolia): My delegation would like 

to  thank  Mr.  Yukiya  Amano,  Director  General  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for 
introducing  the  Agency’s  report  (see  A/66/95)  and 
providing  an  update  on  developments  since  the  report 
was  submitted 
its 
consideration. 
At  the  outset,  the  Mongolian  Government  would 

like  to  express  once  again  its  deep  condolences  and 
sincere  sympathy  to  the  people  of  Japan  and  its 
Government  for  the  tragic  loss  of  human  life  and 
suffering  as  a  result  of  the  11  March  earthquake  and 
tsunami. The tragic event was a grave reminder of the 
need to close the existing safety gaps and continuously 
increase  the  safety  and  security  of  nuclear  facilities 
around the world.  

The  IAEA,  the  only  international  organization 
with the relevant expertise, must lead the international 
effort to strengthen global  nuclear safety and security. 
As  rightly  highlighted  in  its  report,  in  the  weeks 
immediately  after  the  Fukushima  accident  the  IAEA 
served  as  an  international  focal  point  in  assisting  the 
in 
plant  operator  and 
overcoming 
the 
accident. It also played an important role in providing 
authenticated  information  on  the  situation  at  and 
around Fukushima.  
It  should  also  be  pointed  out  that  many  member 

States,  as  well  as  the  Preparatory  Commission  for  the 
Comprehensive Nuclear-Test-Ban Treaty Organization, 
the  World  Health  Organization  and  other  relevant 
international  organizations  worked  closely  together 
during 
the 
effectiveness  of 
the  United  Nations  one-house 
approach to addressing common challenges and needs. 

for 
convening,  in  June,  the  Ministerial  Conference  on 
Nuclear  Safety,  which  adopted  a  declaration  aimed  at 
further 
safety,  emergency 
preparedness  and  protection  from  radiation  of  people 
and  the  environment  throughout  the  world.  Based  on 
the declaration, the IAEA General Conference adopted 
an  Action  Plan  on  Nuclear  Safety  that  envisions 
12 main  actions  focusing  on  safety  assessment,  IAEA 
peer  reviews,  emergency  preparedness  and  response, 
the  Japanese  authorities 
the  disastrous  consequences  of 
critical  weeks,  demonstrating 
My  delegation  commends 
strengthening  nuclear 
the  Agency 
the 
11-57396 

7 

and 
the  need 
relief.  The 
A/66/PV.46 

capacity-building,  communication  and 
information 
dissemination,  as  well  as  research  and  development. 
Mongolia believes that vigorous implementation of the 
Action Plan would contribute tangibly to strengthening 
the nuclear safety regime.  

We  also  believe  that  the  convening,  as  proposed 
by  the  Government  of  Japan,  of  an  international 
conference to consider the lessons of Fukushima would 
also  be  practically  useful  in  improving  emergency 
post-Fukushima 
preparedness 
experience  has  clearly  demonstrated 
to 
strengthen  the  international  liability  regime  to  enable 
sufficient  compensation  for  the  damage  caused  to 
people  and  the  environment  as  a  result  of  such 
accidents. 

It  is  an  established  fact  that  nuclear  safety  and 
security  are  a  common  concern  for  countries  all  over 
the  world.  These  days,  they  are  especially  important 
for countries like Mongolia, as it embarks on uranium 
exploitation and considers adding nuclear power to its 
energy  mix.  Mongolia  is  well  aware  that  uranium 
exploitation  entails  great  responsibility, 
including 
ensuring the physical security of nuclear material at all 
stages of the nuclear fuel cycle. It will therefore look to 
the Agency and its international partners for advice and 
assistance  in  the  proper  exploitation  of  its  uranium 
reserves.  

We are now considering conducting a pre-feasibility 
study  with  the  Agency  on  whether  nuclear  power 
should  be  included  in  our  energy  mix.  As  part  of  its 
initial  measures,  the  Mongolian  Government  is  also 
working to accede to the Convention on Nuclear Safety 
and  the  Joint  Convention  on  the  Safety  of  Spent  Fuel 
Management  and  on  the  Safety  of  Radioactive  Waste 
Management. 

Mongolia  further  commends  the  IAEA’s  central 
role in promoting non-proliferation through safeguards 
and  verification,  and  in  promoting  the  transfer  of 
nuclear  knowledge,  science  and  technology  to  its 
members. Judging by the IAEA projects in my country, 
I  can  say  with  confidence  that  the  Agency  makes  a 
formidable  contribution  to  global  development  efforts 
by  providing 
training  and 
equipment.  I  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
thank the IAEA for its crucial assistance to developing 
countries, including my own country, Mongolia. 
Last  year,  Mongolia  was  designated  the  eighth 

Model  Demonstration  Site  (PMDS)  country  under  the 
relevant 
skills, 
the 
In 
the 
the  Agency 
framework  of 
therefore  places  special 
in 
IAEA  Programme  of  Action  for  Cancer  Therapy 
(PACT). As a PMDS, Mongolia is working to develop 
the  required  radiotherapy  capacity  to  ensure  effective 
early  detection  and 
treatment  of  cancer.  The 
radiotherapy  services  will  soon  be  broadened  by  the 
installation  of  a  linear  particle  accelerator  in  our 
capital,  Ulaanbaatar. 
its 
cooperation  with  PACT,  the  Government  of  Mongolia 
has  formulated  a  general  action  plan  for  cancer 
prevention  and  control  for  2011  to  2021  and  has 
adopted  a  strategic  plan  for  radiotherapy  development 
for  the  same  period.  The  implementation  of  these 
policies  will  allow  us  to  address  the  growing  scourge 
of  cancer  more  effectively  and  at  the  same  time  to 
share our experience as a PMDS country with others. 
Other  priority  areas  of  our  cooperation  with  the 

Agency  include  agriculture,  food  security  and  overall 
capacity-building.  Being  an  agricultural  country, 
Mongolia  attaches  great  importance  to  increasing  its 
agricultural  production,  especially  meat  production. 
focus  on 
Mongolia 
its 
cooperation  with 
the  sustainable 
production  and  supply  of  vaccines  and  diagnostic  kits 
to counter transboundary animal diseases. 

As  a  landlocked  country  with  a  dry  climate, 
Mongolia welcomed the focus of this year’s Scientific 
Forum  on  water  and  the  prospects  of  its  better  uses 
with  nuclear  technologies,  which  was  held  during  the 
IAEA General Conference.  
This  year  Mongolia  has  submitted  eight  project 

proposals 
the  new  biennial  project  cycle 
2012-2013,  in  accordance  with  its  priority  needs  and 
the  Agency’s  mandate.  It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to 
note  that  our  commitment  to  strong  cooperation  with 
the  Agency  can  be  seen  from  the  fact  that  the  IAEA 
projects  in  Mongolia  have  the  highest  implementation 
rate in the Asia-Pacific region this year. 

As in previous years, my delegation is pleased to 
be a sponsor of the draft resolution on the report of the 
IAEA, as contained in document A/66/L.6. 
Mr.  Tarar  (Pakistan):  We  would  like  to  express 

our appreciation for the annual report (see A/66/95) of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  and 
for the efforts of the Agency and its Director General. 
Pakistan  recently  concluded  its  term  as  Chair  of  the 
IAEA  Board  of  Governors  for  2010-2011,  and  our 
chairmanship 
international 
underscored 
the 
for 
8 

11-57396 
security 
and 
in  an 
leading 
important 
advancing 
the  IAEA  for 
international  environment.  The 


community’s  confidence  in  Pakistan’s  contributions  to 
and role in matters within the Agency’s ambit. 

In the 54 years since its establishment, the IAEA 
has emerged as a successful organization in promoting 
peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy,  contributing  to  peace 
and 
socio-economic 
development.  The  Agency’s  role  has  become  even 
more 
increasingly  complex  and 
challenging 
fast-
growing  global  energy  demands,  shortages  of  fossil 
fuel  reserves  and  diverse  environmental  challenges, 
along  with  safety  and  security  concerns,  are  likely  to 
engage 
the  foreseeable  future.  In 
discharging these functions, it will be important for the 
Agency  to  be  seen  as  an  impartial,  efficient  and 
professional body — not just a nuclear watchdog. 

We  agree  with  the  Agency’s  post-Fukushima 
assessment that nuclear energy will remain a preferable 
viable,  safe  and  sustainable  alternative  power  source. 
The  events  at  the  Fukushima  nuclear  plants  brought 
into  focus  the  justifiable  public  anxiety  over  the 
nuclear safety regime. We fully support the IAEA’s role 
in 
to  evaluate  and 
institutionalize  the  lessons-learned  process  from  the 
Fukushima  event.  The Agency’s  efforts,  including  the 
convening of a ministerial conference on nuclear safety 
and the adoption of a Nuclear Safety Action Plan, have 
been both timely and useful. The high-level meeting on 
nuclear  safety  and  security,  held  by  the  Secretary-
General here in New York in September, also served to 
catalyse  international  attention  to  the  important  issues 
of nuclear safety. 

The  Action  Plan  prepared  by  the  IAEA  and  its 
member  States  provides  an  important  foundation  for 
strengthening the nuclear safety framework worldwide. 
The  high-level  meeting  rightly  reaffirmed  the  support 
of  its  participants  for  the  Agency’s  leadership  role  in 
the lessons-learned process and in enabling its member 
States to implement those lessons nationally. 

In evolving a strengthened nuclear safety regime, 
it is essential to take into account the varied nature of 
countries’  needs  and  circumstances.  The  course-
correction proposals and modalities should be based on 
technical  and  objective  assessments.  The  effective 
implementation  of  the  IAEA  Action  Plan  on  Nuclear 
Safety will depend in large measure  on, inter  alia, the 
degree  of  international  assistance  and  cooperation 
given  to  developing  countries.  We  fully  endorse  the 
the  global  efforts 
A/66/PV.46
views  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  on  this  vital 
aspect,  and  we  look  forward  to  working  with  member 
States  in  carrying  forward  an  agreed  nuclear  safety 
agenda. 

For  our  part,  we  have  already  begun  a 
comprehensive  safety  review  of  existing  power  plants 
in areas such as site studies, safety systems, emergency 
power  systems,  off-site  emergency  preparedness,  and 
so forth. Such safety appraisals will also be applicable 
to  our  future  nuclear  power  plants.  We  will  examine 
the outcome of this review and make modifications as 
necessary. 

IAEA  and  Pakistan’s  Atomic  Energy 
The 
Commission were launched five decades ago, almost at 
the  same  time.  The  two  organizations  have  grown 
together  and  have  a  cooperative  and  mutually 
beneficial  relationship,  which  has  been  of  immense 
value to Pakistan.  
We  have  benefited  from  the  expertise  made 

available  in  the  form  of  expert  missions,  operational 
safety  review  teams,  assessment  of  safety  significant 
events  team  missions,  and  the  Agency’s  Technical 
Cooperation  Programme.  We  attach 
the  highest 
importance 
IAEA  Technical  Cooperation 
Programme  and  would  like  to  stress  the  need  for 
enhanced and assured resource allocation for technical 
cooperation activities, technology transfer and training 
facilities  for  developing  countries,  inter  alia  through 
greater  involvement  of  developing  countries  in  the 
programme’s design and implementation. 
Pakistan  has  long  been  a  strong  advocate  of 

utilizing  nuclear  technology  for  peace,  progress  and 
prosperity for all. The revival of the economy and the 
socio-economic  development  of  our  people  is  the 
foremost priority of the Government of Pakistan. Safe 
and  sustainable  nuclear  energy 
to 
advancing  our  development  agenda.  The  Pakistan 
Atomic Energy Commission is actively engaged in the 
application  of  nuclear  technology  for  the  socio-economic 
uplift  of  the  country,  which  includes  such  areas  as 
cancer  diagnosis  and 
treatment,  agriculture,  food 
preservation,  water management and industry. But our 
most important task remains harnessing nuclear energy 
for the generation of electrical power. 

in 
Pakistan’s electricity mix is rather modest. We wish to 
enhance  the  current  level  of  750  megawatts  (MW) 
nuclear-power-generation capacity to 8,800 MW by the 
the  share  of  nuclear  power 
is  essential 
At  present, 
the 
to 
11-57396 

9 
for 

to  export 
imperative 
A/66/PV.46 

year  2030.  This  is  a  challenging  but  an  equally 
important  development 
that  we  are 
determined  to  pursue.  Early  this  year,  the  unanimous 
approval by the IAEA Board of the C3  and C4 power 
plants safeguards agreement reflected the international 
community’s recognition of Pakistan’s expertise in the 
safe and secure operation of nuclear power plants. The 
conclusion of this safeguards agreement relating to the 
two power plants, each of which has a 340-MW power-
generation capacity, is an important milestone towards 
our energy security strategy. 

The  Pakistan  Atomic  Energy  Commission  is 
currently  operating  14  nuclear  medicine  and  oncology 
hospitals  across the country, while  four  such hospitals 
are  under  construction.  These  are  still  not  enough  for 
our very large population, and we intend to continue to 
expand our capabilities in the public sector to cater to 
the poor and the deserving. 

We  produce  most  of  the  radiopharmaceuticals 
required  domestically  and,  having  recently  installed  a 
facility for the production of molybdenum-99, are now 
in  a  position 
it.  Our  agriculture  and 
biotechnology  centres  are  also  making  valuable 
contributions to the agriculture and livestock sectors of 
the country. 

the  Pakistan  Atomic  Energy 
Commission has developed a very sound infrastructure 
for  addressing  various  problems  related  to  water-
resource management using isotope techniques. We are 
taking  part  in  the  IAEA  programme  involving  the 
inter-calibration  of  standards  and  are  also  providing 
expert  and  analytical  services  in  this  field  to  IAEA 
member  States  in  the  region.  We  have  a  network  of 
in-house  educational  and  training  institutions  that 
encompass  all  major  facets  of  nuclear  science  and 
technology.  Besides  meeting  the  needs  of  our  own 
programmes,  these  institutes  are  ready  to  welcome 
participants from other IAEA member States. 

We  appreciate  the  assistance  that  the  IAEA  has 
provided 
through  expert  services,  equipment  and 
human resource development in helping us to establish 
and  improve  all  these  facilities.  This  is  an  area  in 
which  IAEA  is  obligated  to  foster  growth  in  other 
countries  as  well,  and,  with  our  experience,  we  can 
also help. 

Nuclear  security  has  emerged  as  an  important 
area  requiring  adequate  attention  and  response.  While 
we  support  the  international  focus  on  and  efforts  to 
In  addition, 
strengthening 
reviewing  and 
advance the objectives of nuclear security, we share the 
IAEA view that responsibility for nuclear security rests 
entirely with each State. 
At  the  international  level,  the  IAEA  has  the 

leading  and  central  role 
in  evolving  guidelines, 
recommendations,  codes  and  guidance  documents  in 
the  area  of  nuclear  security.  Given  its  mandate, 
technical competence and wide membership, the IAEA 
is a unique platform for its member States to consider 
proposals 
the 
international framework on nuclear security. 

Ms.  King  (Australia),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

In  recent  years,  a  number  of  initiatives  and 
activities  have  sprung  up  globally  to  promote  the 
nuclear  security  agenda,  often  with  overlapping  work. 
We  fully  share  the  concerns  of  the  IAEA  over  the 
continuing  duplication  of  nuclear-security-related 
activities.  We  wish  to  reaffirm  that  the  IAEA  has  the 
unique  role,  authority,  competency  and  legitimacy  to 
lead  and  coordinate  policy,  operational  activities  and 
assistance provision in the field of nuclear security. 
Similarly,  it  would  be  counterproductive,  both 

financially  and  politically, 
to  duplicate  nuclear-
security-related activities, particularly in the design and 
development  of  parallel  guidelines,  recommendations, 
standards  and  guidance  documents  in  various  areas 
related to nuclear security. 

and 
implementation  structures  of  the  IAEA  for  nuclear 
safety  and  nuclear  security,  we  would  advise  against 
the pursuit of a single series of standards in the areas of 
nuclear  safety  and  security.  These  two  areas  have 
divergent  philosophies,  causes,  legal  instruments  and 
operational requirements, although the two may share a 
degree of common risks. 

legislative, 
organizational and administrative steps to augment the 
safety  and  security  of  our  nuclear 
installations, 
facilities,  materials  and  regulatory  framework.  Our 
Nuclear  Regulatory  Authority  (PNRA)  has  completed 
10  years  of  its  professional  work  as  an  effective 
overseer.  The Authority  has  grown  rapidly  in  the  last 
decade, establishing itself as a strong, independent and 
credible overseer. 
regulatory 

infrastructure and expanded the scope of its regulatory 
The  PNRA  has  augmented 
the  distinct  nature, 
taken 
several 
Pakistan 
has 
Given 
character 
10 

11-57396 
its 
to 
on 
and 
based 
commercial 


processes.  It  has  also  achieved  important  milestones, 
that  is,  from  the  regulatory  oversight  of  nuclear 
materials  and  equipment 
the  management  of 
radioactive  sources.  In  doing  so,  the  PNRA  has 
followed  international  standards  and  practices  while 
maintaining very close links with the IAEA, as both a 
recipient and a giver. 

The professional approach with which the PNRA 
has  executed  the  nuclear  security  action  plan  in 
Pakistan has won it wide appreciation among its global 
peers. It is now implementing the second phase of the 
plan,  in  collaboration  with  the  IAEA.  In  addition,  we 
have  participated  for  several  years  now  in  the  IAEA 
Illicit Trafficking Database. 

The  global  non-proliferation  architecture  has 
witnessed  major  transformations  in  recent  years.  We 
have  seen  trends  and  policies  that  have  dealt  major 
blows  to  the  non-proliferation  regime.  Policies  and 
practices 
political 
considerations  have  eroded  the  sanctity  of  the  long-
standing norms and legal instruments that underpin the 
non-proliferation regime. 
Pakistan believes in an equitable, non-discriminatory 

and  criteria-based  approach  to  advancing  the  universally 
shared  goals  of  non-proliferation  and  the  promotion  of 
peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy.  We  also  hope  that 
considerations  of  nuclear  safety  and  nuclear  security 
would  facilitate,  not  hinder,  the  pursuit  of  peaceful 
uses of nuclear energy  for advancing the development 
agenda and offsetting environmental degradation. 
Mr.  Gupta  (India):  My  delegation  thanks  the 

Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (IAEA)  for  his  statement,  which  provided 
additional information on the main developments in the 
activities  of  the  Agency  for  2010.  We  also  commend 
the  IAEA  for  its  2010  report  (see  A/66/95),  which 
underscores 
in 
promoting  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy.  India 
participated in the high-level meeting on nuclear safety 
and  security  called  for  by  the  Secretary-General,  held 
in New York on 22 September. 

We  are  considering  worldwide  nuclear-related 
developments  in  2010  against  the  backdrop  of  the 
series of serious accidents that occurred in March 2011 
at  several  installations  at  the  Fukushima  Daiichi 
nuclear  power  plants  in  Japan  following  a  devastating 
earthquake and the resulting tsunami. 
the  Agency 
the  central 
role  of 
A/66/PV.46
incident 
The  Fukushima  nuclear 

attracted 
worldwide  attention  and  has  raised  concerns  about 
nuclear  safety  in  the  face  of  natural  calamities  of  a 
particularly large magnitude. We are convinced that the 
world nuclear community will rise to the occasion and 
take all necessary measures to assuage the concerns of 
the  public  at  large  about  the  safety  of  nuclear  power 
plants.  It  is  imperative  that  Member  States  join  hands 
to  strengthen  the  IAEA,  which  has  a  leading  role  in 
channelling  global  efforts  on  nuclear  safety.  India 
supports  the  IAEA  Action  Plan  on  Nuclear  Safety, 
endorsed by the General Conference on 22 September. 

The  role  of  nuclear  power  as  a  clean  source  of 
energy  that  is  essential  to  meet  growing  energy  needs 
and to address concerns about climate change must not 
be undermined. Nuclear safety should be seen not as a 
static  but  as  a  continuously  evolving  process.  The 
Agency  must  play  an  important  role,  in  coordination 
with  all  relevant  stakeholders,  to  further  strengthen  it. 
At this juncture, it is imperative for the Agency to take 
all  the  necessary  measures  to  allay  the  apprehensions 
of  the  public  and  Member  States  about  the  safety  of 
nuclear  power  plants,  taking  into  account  current 
advances  in  design  and  technology. We  encourage  the 
Agency  to  continue  supporting  all  activities  related  to 
the promotion of nuclear power. 
India  views  nuclear  energy  as  an  essential 

its  national  energy  basket.  We  are 
element  of 
committed  to  taking  forward  our  three-stage  nuclear 
programme based on a closed fuel cycle. We envisage a 
major  expansion  of  nuclear  energy  in  the  coming 
decades,  reaching  20,000  megawatts  (MW)  by  2020 
and projected to grow to 60,000 MW by 2030. 

record  has  been 
impeccable in over 345 reactor-years of operation, but 
we 
continuous 
improvement  and  innovation  in  our  nuclear  safety 
standards  and  practices  covering  the  entire  range  of 
activities — siting, design, construction, operation and 
up-grading. 

repeatedly 
underscored  that  the  safety  of  our  nuclear  plants  is  a 
matter  of  the  highest  priority.  The  Government  has 
undertaken  a  number  of  measures.  They  include  the 
introduction  of  a  bill  in  Parliament  to  change  the 
functional  status  of  India’s Atomic  Energy  Regulatory 
Board  to  a  de  jure  independent  nuclear  regulatory 
authority.  Six  safety  review  committees  have  looked 
The  Government  of 
Our  nuclear  safety 
importance 
India  has 
recognize 
track 
the 
of 
11-57396 

11 

indigenous  or 
A/66/PV.46 

into  various  aspects  of  nuclear  safety  and,  while 
detailed reviews are being evaluated, certain enhanced 
safety  measures  are  already  being  implemented.  India 
will invite the IAEA operational safety review teams to 
assist in Indian safety reviews and audits. All reactors, 
whether 
imported,  will  without 
exception meet the enhanced safety standards.  

Safety evaluation reports and follow-up measures 
are  being  put  in  the  public  domain  so  as  to  enhance 
transparency  and  boost  public  confidence.  There  is 
increased 
focus  on  emergency  preparedness  and 
response to possible nuclear accidents that are beyond 
design-basis  accidents. 
India’s  National  Disaster 
Management  Authority  has  drawn  up  a  document, 
entitled  “Management  of  Nuclear  and  Radiological 
Emergencies”, which provides a holistic and integrated 
approach  to  disaster  management,  covering  all  its 
components  —  prevention,  mitigation,  preparedness, 
compliance  with  regulatory  requirements,  capacity 
development,  response,  relief,  recovery,  rehabilitation 
and reconstruction. 

India’s  nuclear  programme  is  oriented  towards 
maximizing  the  energy  potential  of  available  uranium 
resources  and  the  utilization  of  the  large  thorium 
reserve.  We  believe  that  available  global  uranium 
resources  cannot  sustain  the  projected  expansion  of 
nuclear  power  without  adopting  the  closed  fuel-cycle 
approach. We encourage the Agency to further engage 
itself in the thorium fuel cycle. 
We welcome the inclusion of activities related to 

nuclear 
development.  My 
delegation  fully  supports  the  activities  of  the  Agency 
undertaken  to  stimulate  innovation  in  nuclear  power 
through  technical  working  groups  for  different  reactor 
technologies,  for  small-  and  medium-sized  reactors, 
and  for  non-electric  applications.  The  coordinated 
research  projects  organized  by  the Agency  provide  an 
excellent  forum  for  increasing  understanding  and  the 
further  development  of  technology.  We  welcome  the 
release in 2010 of an updated version of its Advanced 
Reactor 
containing 
comprehensive  information  on  all  advanced  reactor 
designs and concepts. 

India  has  been  associated  with  the  International 
Project  on  Innovative  Nuclear  Reactors  and  Fuel 
Cycles  since 
inception.  We  have  contributed 
significantly  to  its  progress  and  believe  that  the 
programme has great potential to make nuclear energy 
Information 
technology 
System, 
reactor 
its 
for 
in 
the 
in  a 
Reactor 
safe  and 
Experimental 
sustainable  manner, 
telecobalt  unit  donated  by 
accessible 
particularly to new entrants embarking on that path. 

India  attaches  great  importance  to  the  Agency’s 
work in the fields of nuclear science. We contribute to 
those  activities  through  participation  in  the  technical 
meetings  and  coordinated  research  projects,  and  we 
also  support  the  Agency’s  programme  in  nuclear 
fusion. India  makes a  contribution to the International 
Thermonuclear 
(ITER) 
programme  by  providing  special  hardware  items  and 
specialized  expertise.  In  2010,  the  construction  of  a 
laboratory  building 
ITER-India  was  nearly 
completed. 

My  delegation  is  of  the  view  that  the  Agency’s 
work  programme  and  achievements  in  the  area  of 
nuclear  applications  are  of  significance  and  special 
value  in  meeting  the  needs  of  developing  countries. 
Activities  in  the  spheres  of  food  and  agriculture, 
human health and nutrition and water resources, among 
others, are notable in that connection.  

Experts  from  India  regularly  participate  in  all 
those  programmes  and  provide  support  to  the Agency. 
The  Bhabhatron 
the 
Government  of  India  to  Vietnam  through  the  IAEA 
Programme  of  Action 
for  Cancer  Therapy  was 
successfully commissioned in 2010. The installation of 
another Bhabhatron unit in Sri Lanka, donated through 
a  similar  arrangement,  is  currently  in  progress.  Indian 
experts  are  providing  full  support  to  Sri  Lanka  in  the 
construction,  installation  and  commissioning  of  the 
facility  and 
technical  staff.  Our 
delegation  commends  the  Agency  for  its  activities 
related 
to  nuclear  knowledge  management  and 
capacity-building in member States. In that context, we 
are  pleased  to  note  the  designation  of  St.  John’s 
Research  Institute,  in  Bengaluru,  as  the  first  IAEA 
Collaborating Centre for Nutrition. 

India supports the work of the IAEA. That is why 
we  have  sponsored  draft  resolution  A/66/L.6,  on  the 
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency. 

Ms.  Camejo  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Cuba 
welcomes  and  supports  the  important  role  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA).  The 
application  of  nuclear 
to 
mitigating  soil  deterioration,  desertification,  warming 
of  the  atmosphere  and  other  natural  phenomena  that 
affect the production of food and the life of humankind 
on Earth. 
techniques  contributes 
training 
12 

11-57396 
the 
regulatory 
bodies 
through 
throughout 
throughout 
the  entire 
the  26  years  since 



We  attach  high  priority  to  cooperation  among 
developing countries. In that regard, Cuba has actively 
participated 
the 
establishment  of  the  Regional  Cooperative Agreement 
for  the  Promotion  of  Nuclear  Science  and Technology 
in Latin America and the Caribbean (ARCAL). Within 
that  context,  the  countries  of  our  region  and  the 
secretariat  of  the  IAEA  have  achieved  significant 
results,  in  particular  in  bringing  about  the  strategic 
partnership set up between ARCAL and the Agency. 

Furthermore, our participation in the Ibero-American 
Forum  of  Radiological  and  Nuclear  Regulatory 
Agencies  (FORO)  has  contributed  to  the  goal  of 
maintaining  a  high  level  of  radiological,  nuclear  and 
physical  security  in  the  member  countries  and,  by 
extension, 
Ibero-American 
region.  The  Forum  is  an  association  comprising  the 
regulatory  agencies  of Argentina,  Brazil,  Chile,  Cuba, 
Mexico,  Peru,  Spain  and  Uruguay,  and  has  worked 
hard  in  key  new  areas  of  radiological  and  nuclear 
security.  It  has  shared  knowledge  and  information 
among 
the 
Ibero-American  network,  whose  intrinsic  value  we 
hope  to  promote.  Cuba  is  pleased  that,  under  its 
presidency  next  year,  we  will  celebrate  FORO’s 
fifteenth anniversary.  

The  technical  cooperation  pillar  of  the  IAEA 
should  be  strengthened  and  should  unconditionally 
receive the resources that it needs, in accordance with 
its  priority  status.  Our  commitment 
technical 
cooperation  is  strong,  as  the  following  examples, 
among  others,  demonstrate.  By  2010,  we  had 
implemented  77  per  cent  of  a  technical  cooperation 
project,  maintaining  the  high  level  of  implementation 
that  Cuba  has  historically  shown.  However,  that  was 
slightly lower than in other years, owing to the effects 
of  the  blockade  that  the  United  States  Government 
maintains against our people. 

for 
scientific  visits.  We  undertook  more  than  50  expert 
missions,  of  which  nine  were  for  technical  meetings, 
23  for  regional  projects  and  18  within  the  framework 
of  ARCAL.  We  took  part  in  20  ARCAL  projects, 
meeting  100  per  cent  of  the  commitments  made  by 
Cuba under that programme. The first four meetings of 
ARCAL were held in Cuba as a lead country for such 
projects. 
Seven 
foreigners  have 
received  grants 
to 
11-57396 

A/66/PV.46

Within  the  context  of  ARCAL,  we  organized 
20 courses and workshops, eight cooperation meetings 
and  18  expert  missions,  and  took  part  in  ordinary  and 
extraordinary  meetings  of  its  technical  and  political 
bodies.  Moreover,  we  participated  in  six  regional 
projects  on  radiation  protection.  Our  country  also 
participated  extensively  in  joint  research  projects.  In 
2010, Cuban  researchers were  included in 15 research 
contracts under those programmes. 
Cuba  has  met  its  financial  commitments  to  the 

IAEA  Technical  Cooperation  Fund, 
including  by 
contributing  100  per  cent  of  expenses  for  national 
participation. 

While  underscoring  the  important  role  of  the 
IAEA and its links with the United Nations system, in 
particular  the  disarmament  machinery,  we  take  this 
opportunity  to  reiterate  that  our  joint  efforts  must 
continue in order to uphold nuclear disarmament as the 
highest  priority,  given  the  grave  threat  that  the  mere 
existence  of  more  than  22,000  nuclear  warheads  and 
the  military  doctrines  and  strategies  that  perpetuate 
their  possession  and  use  poses  to  international  peace 
and security and the survival of humankind.  

trade  and  financial  blockade 
imposed  by  the  Government  of  the  United  States  of 
America  against  Cuba  for  more  than  50  years  also 
affects  the  activities  of  the  IAEA  in  our  country  and 
contravenes  the  Agency’s  statute.  Since  December 
2010,  the  blockade  has  caused  my  country  economic 
losses of more than $975 billion, at the current value of 
that currency.  

Owing  to  the  blockade,  the  IAEA  has  had 
difficulties  in  obtaining  specialized  equipment  for 
projects  in  Cuba,  since American  companies,  or  those 
that  work  with  capital  from  that  country,  cannot  sell 
such  equipment  for  use  in  Cuba  without  possible 
sanctions.  In  addition,  our  citizens  face  difficulties  in 
participating in training organized in the United States. 
The  blockade  also  affects  the  implementation  of 
projects on fighting cancer, which is one of the IAEA’s 
priorities.  

While  denouncing  once  again  the  unjust  and 
criminal blockade, condemned in this very Hall only a 
few days ago by the overwhelming majority of United 
Nations Members (see A/66/PV.41), Cuba nevertheless 
acknowledges  the  ongoing  efforts  of  the  secretariat  of 
the  IAEA  to  seek  alternatives  and  solutions  to  that 
reality.  We  recognize  the  efforts  of  the  IAEA  to 
The  economic, 
13 

and 
radiation 
the  Caribbean, 
A/66/PV.46 

transportation, 
strengthen 
security, 
radioactive  waste  management 
emergency 
preparedness in countries as a guarantor of safe use of 
radioactive sources. 

Cuba  devotes  significant  human  resources  and 
materials to nuclear safety. It invests in those areas in 
Latin  America  and 
including  by 
organizing  regional  activities  and  contributing 
to 
radiation protection experts and services. As a member 
of  the  Ibero-American  Forum  of  Radiological  and 
Nuclear  Regulatory  Agencies,  Cuba  takes  an  active 
part in medical projects. 

The  serious  nuclear  accident  that  took  place  in 
Japan as a result of the huge earthquake and tsunami in 
that country showed that there is still much to learn in 
the  nuclear  safety  area. We  should  step  up  our  efforts 
towards greater security in the face of natural disasters. 
Cuba  attaches  special  importance  to  what  was  agreed 
in  the  declaration  of  the  Ministerial  Conference  on 
Nuclear  Safety,  held  in  June,  and  the  Action  Plan  on 
Nuclear  Safety  adopted  at  the  fifty-fifth  General 
Conference. 
the 

international  nuclear  regime,  for  which  we  place  the 
primary  responsibility  on  nuclear-weapon  States,  and 
urge  that  the  IAEA  be  granted  the  central  role  in 
promoting  and  coordinating  international  efforts  and 
cooperation, so as to strengthen global nuclear security. 

Cuba  is  one  of  the  small  group  of  countries 
certified  by  the  IAEA  as  being  in  strict  compliance 
with  its  safeguards  commitments.  That  confirms  that 
we  are  a  country  that  has  no  undeclared  nuclear 
materials  or  activities.  We  attach  great  importance  to 
the  sensitive  issue  of  safeguards  and  to  the  impartial 
and  professional  action  of  the  IAEA  secretariat  in  the 
activities  that  it  promotes  in  that  area.  We  have 
repeatedly 
and 
politicization  of  the  IAEA  for  political  purposes,  as 
well  as  the  double  standards  that  are  unfortunately 
common  in  its  analyses. As  activities  in  that  area  are 
the  exclusive  province  of  the  IAEA,  we  reiterate  our 
rejection  of  any  of  its  decisions  in  which  the  Security 
Council has been involved. 

We reaffirm that verification activities must, first 
and  foremost,  respect  the  sovereignty  and  national 
interests  of  member  States.  We  urge 
the  IAEA 
secretariat  to  continue  working  to  create  a  climate  of 
impartiality,  trust,  understanding  and  transparency, 
the  manipulation 
strengthen 
the  need 
criticized 
reaffirm 
We 
to 
to 
its 
for 
We 
also 
submit 
nuclear 
support 
installations 
reiterate  our 
based  on  objectivity  and  truth,  which  will  help  to 
resolve  specific  cases 
involving  compliance  with 
safeguards  agreements  being  considered  by  the  Board 
of  Governors  and  the  IAEA  General  Conference.  In 
that  regard,  we  underline  the  need  to  respect  the 
inalienable  right  of  all  States  to  the  use  of  nuclear 
energy for peaceful purposes. 

We  confirm  our  support  for  the  denuclearization 
of  the  Korean  peninsula  and  for  a  solution  negotiated 
by all parties involved.  
the 

establishment  of  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the 
Middle  East.  To  achieve 
that  goal,  Israel  must 
immediately  and  unconditionally  accede  to  the  NPT 
and 
the 
comprehensive safeguards regime of the IAEA. 

We  are  pleased  that  Finland  has  been  chosen  as 
facilitator  and  host  Government  for  next  year’s 
conference  on  the  establishment  of  a  zone  free  of 
nuclear  weapons  and  other  weapons  of  mass 
destruction  in  the  Middle  East,  which  we  hope  will 
produce concrete proposals for achieving that goal. 

I would like to conclude by stressing that we all 
share  a  responsibility  to  bequeath  a  safer  world  to 
future  generations.  That  is  why  nuclear  disarmament 
cannot  continue  to  be  a  goal  that  is  constantly 
postponed and subjected to conditions. Cuba will stand 
firm  in  the  struggle  for  a  better  world  that  is  free  of 
nuclear weapons. 
Mr. Wang  Min  (China) (spoke in Chinese): The 

Chinese delegation welcomes the report of Mr. Yukiya 
Amano,  Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency (IAEA), on the work of the Agency. 
Over the past year, the Agency carried out a great 

deal of work in accordance with its statutory mandate. 
In the aftermath of Fukushima Daiichi nuclear accident 
last March, the Agency has played an important role in 
communicating accident information to member States 
and in assisting Japan with accident response. In June, 
the  Agency  convened  the  Ministerial  Conference  on 
Nuclear  Safety,  which  resulted  in  the  adoption  of  a 
ministerial  declaration  and 
the  consolidation  of 
international consensus on nuclear safety. The Agency 
developed  a  comprehensive  Action  Plan  on  Nuclear 
Safety,  which  sets  out  concrete  nuclear  safety 
recommendations.  
14 

11-57396 
At 
time, 
and 
through 
relevant 
response 
emergency 
the  universality  of 



China  believes  that  the  Agency’s  efforts  are  of 
great  importance  in  improving  international  nuclear 
safety 
performance, 
international  cooperation  and 
promoting 
safeguarding  the  safe  and  sustainable  development  of 
global nuclear energy. 

the  same 
its  Technical 
Cooperation  Programme, 
the  IAEA  has  provided 
guidance  to  member  States  for  the  development  of 
nuclear power projects and promoted the application of 
nuclear technology in a range of areas, such as human 
health,  medical  services,  food  and  agriculture,  and 
environmental  protection.  The  Agency  has  actively 
assisted  member  States  in  strengthening  their  nuclear 
security and  safety capabilities and provided technical 
support concerning the safe operation of nuclear power 
plants.  The  IAEA  has  made  continuous  efforts  to 
promote 
the  comprehensive 
safeguards agreements and the additional protocol, and 
has earnestly performed its safeguards function. China 
is  glad  to  see  that  the  work  of  the  Agency  in  those 
areas  has  been  widely  recognized  and  supported  by 
member States. 
Today, nuclear energy is playing an irreplaceable 

role 
in  safeguarding  nuclear  security,  promoting 
economic development and combating climate change. 
In  its  nuclear  energy  development  activities,  China 
always  adheres  to  the  principle  of  safety  first.  China 
has established a fairly comprehensive legal framework 
and system of standards on nuclear safety and security, 
put  in  place  an  independent  and  effective  supervisory 
and  regulatory  framework,  set  up  a  comprehensive 
emergency response mechanism and maintained a good 
safety  record  in  general.  In  order  to  enhance  nuclear 
safety,  China  has  always  supported  and  actively 
participated  in  relevant  international  and  regional 
exchanges  and  cooperation,  and  has  also  introduced 
and applied advanced nuclear power technologies. 

China  also  attaches  great  importance  to  nuclear 
security  capacity-building,  and  supports  and  actively 
international  cooperation 
participates 
relevant 
initiatives.  China  ratified 
the  Amendment 
the 
Convention  on  the  Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear 
Material  and  the  International  Convention  for  the 
Suppression  of  Acts  of  Nuclear  Terrorism.  Currently, 
China is working with interested countries to establish 
a centre of excellence for nuclear security in China.  
in 
to 
A/66/PV.46
The 
IAEA  has  been  shouldering 
China  supports  the  Agency’s  central  role  in 

nuclear  security  and  has  decided 
to  contribute 
$200,000  to  its  Nuclear  Security  Fund  in  order  to 
enhance  the  nuclear  security  capability  of  the  Asia-
Pacific region. 
At  the  same  time,  China  strictly  fulfils  its 

safeguards  obligations  and  actively  supports 
the 
Agency’s efforts to improve its verification capabilities 
and to promote the effectiveness and the universality of 
the international safeguards regime.  
China supports the Agency’s efforts to pursue its 

Technical Cooperation Programme and to promote the 
development  of  nuclear  power  and  the  application  of 
nuclear  technology.  China  is  ready  to  its  utmost  to 
provide,  through  the  Agency,  assistance  to  other 
countries  by  sharing  its  accumulated  experience  in 
developing its own nuclear energy. 

important 
responsibilities  in  promoting  the  peaceful  uses  of 
nuclear  energy  and  preventing  nuclear  weapons 
proliferation.  In  facing  the  new  nuclear  safety  and 
security situation after the Fukushima nuclear accident, 
the Agency should further strengthen its leading role in 
enhancing  nuclear  safety  and  promoting  relevant 
international  cooperation.  It  is  China’s  hope  that  the 
Agency will give priority to the following aspects. 
First, the Agency should take further stock of the 

experiences  and  lessons  of  the  Fukushima  nuclear 
accident, help member States to enhance nuclear safety 
and  emergency  response  capabilities,  and  promote  the 
implementation  of  the  IAEA  Action  Plan  on  Nuclear 
Safety,  with  a  view  to  restoring  public  confidence  in 
nuclear energy.  

Secondly,  it  should  increase  technical  assistance 
to  developing  countries,  improve  the  national  nuclear 
infrastructure  of  newcomer  countries  and  promote  the 
safe,  secure  and  sustainable  development  of  nuclear 
energy.  

the  nuclear 
safeguards  regime  and  effectively  prevent  nuclear 
weapons proliferation.  
Fourthly,  it  should  maintain  an  objective  and 

impartial  stand  on  sensitive  and  hot-button  nuclear 
issues  and  play  a  constructive  role  in  appropriately 
resolving those issues with diplomatic efforts. 
strengthen 
Thirdly, 
should 
it 
11-57396 

15 

A/66/PV.46 

Mr.  Camp  (United  States  of  America):  The 

United States looks forward to the adoption of the draft 
resolution  (A/66/L.6)  of  the  General Assembly  on  the 
report  (see  A/66/95)  of 
the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency 
(IAEA).  The  United  States 
co-sponsored  the  draft  resolution  as  an  expression  of 
its strong support for the Agency and its critical role in 
accelerating  and  enlarging  the  contributions  of  atomic 
energy  to  peace,  health  and  prosperity  throughout  the 
world. 

As Secretary Clinton noted during her remarks to 
the  high-level  meeting  on  nuclear  safety  and  security, 
convened  by  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon:  “This 
year  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  has, 
again,  proven  itself  to  be  an  indispensable  forum  for 
monitoring and supporting the peaceful nuclear activity 
of countries.” 

As an example of our enduring and wide-ranging 
support  for  the  Agency,  the  United  States  has  made 
significant  extrabudgetary  contributions  to  Agency 
programmes  related  to  nuclear  safeguards,  nuclear 
safety,  nuclear  security  and  technical  cooperation.  In 
addition,  President  Obama’s  IAEA  Peaceful  Uses 
Initiative, announced by Secretary Clinton at the 2010 
Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the 
to 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons,  aims 
highlight  and  strengthen 
role 
in 
increasing  access  to  the  benefits  of  peaceful  nuclear 
technologies,  including  in  the  areas  of  human  health, 
food security, water resources management and nuclear 
power.  The  United  States  pledged  $50  million  in 
extrabudgetary  funding  to  the  Peaceful  Uses  Initiative 
over  five  years,  and  we  urge  other  Member  States  to 
join in this endeavour and to match that amount. 

The  United  States  would  also  like  to  express  its 
sincere appreciation to Director General Amano for his 
leadership and for his report to the General Assembly. 
We  look  forward  to  continuing  to  work  with  the 
Director  General, 
the  Agency  secretariat  and  all 
member  States  to  advance  the  important  work  of  the 
IAEA  in  the  years  ahead.  The  United  States  remains 
committed 
the 
resources  and  authorities  it  needs  to  address  the 
numerous and growing challenges in confronts. 
Mr. Tsymbaliuk (Ukraine): The date of 26 April 

2011 marked a quarter of a century since the day when 
the  catastrophe  at  the  Chernobyl  nuclear  power  plant 
dispelled  the  illusions  of  today’s  world  about  the 
the  Agency  has 
the  Agency’s 
to  ensuring 
that 
In 
of 
the 
international 
recognition  by 
commemoration 
the  unanimous 
the  Government  of  Ukraine  organized 
complete safety of the peaceful use of nuclear energy. 
Considering this event through a quarter of a century’s 
history,  it  is  obvious  that  a  responsible  and  holistic 
approach to the atom for peace is the only precondition 
for a safe world in the future. 

My  country’s  strategy  to  address  the  lingering 
after-effects  of  the  Chernobyl  catastrophe  is  aimed  at 
fostering  the  region’s  long-term  development  and 
providing  people  with  the  support  they  need  to  lead 
safe and healthy lives. 
twenty-fifth 

anniversary of the Chernobyl catastrophe, the President 
and 
two 
important  international  events  in  Kyiv  in  2011:  the 
Kyiv  Summit  for  the  Safe  and  Innovative  Use  of 
Nuclear  Energy,  and  an 
scientific 
conference  on  the  theme  “Twenty-five  years  after  the 
Chernobyl accident — safety for the future”.  
We believe that one of the outcomes of the Kyiv 

Summit  was 
its 
participants of the need to secure an adequate level of 
nuclear safety as the key priority throughout each and 
every  stage  of  nuclear  energy  production.  We  would 
like to express our appreciation for the participation of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  and 
its  Director  General  in  both  the  Kyiv  Summit  and  the 
scientific  conference,  as  well  as  for  the  support  the 
Agency continues to provide to Ukraine for mitigation 
of the consequences of the Chernobyl nuclear disaster. 

The  Chernobyl  nuclear  power  plant  accident  in 
1986  triggered  not  only  the  revision  of  international 
nuclear safety standards, but the creation of numerous 
international  instruments  to  ensure  both  the  highest 
level  of  nuclear  waste  and  radiation  safety  worldwide 
and the relevant system of emergency preparedness and 
response.  

In 2011 those instruments were put into test. This 
year  was  difficult  for  the  Agency  because  of  the 
nuclear  accident  at  the  Fukushima  Daiichi  nuclear 
power  plant.  We  believe 
its  unique 
capabilities  and  expertise,  the  Agency  has  a  leading 
role 
in  any  nuclear-related  accident  or 
emergency  and  that  its  on-site  involvement  is  vital  in 
addressing situations like the one at Fukushima. 

Based  on  the  lessons  already  learned  from  the 
accident,  we  in  Ukraine  have  conducted  a  targeted 
reassessment  of  the  safety  of  all  our  nuclear  power 
that  given 
to  play 
16 

11-57396 
and  Safety  Requirements 


units  in  operation.  We  have  introduced  measures  to 
reinforce  the  independent  position  of  the  national 
nuclear  regulatory  authority  and,  as  the  top  priority, 
launched  a  comprehensive  review  of  the  national 
nuclear regulatory framework. We have also joined the 
European  Union  stress  tests  and  the  relevant  peer 
review process. 

We  welcome  the  outcome  of  the  Ministerial 
Conference on Nuclear Safety held in June in Vienna. 
We expected the IAEA Action Plan on Nuclear Safety 
requested  by  the  Ministerial  Conference  to  be  more 
ambitious  in  terms  of  peer  review  missions  and 
transparency.  But  even  as  a  common  denominator  of 
the  current  positions  of  States,  we  do  note  some 
important  steps  in  the  Plan  that  may  strengthen  peer 
review services and mechanisms in future. We consider 
those elements to have particular practical value. 

While responsibility for nuclear safety rests with 
each  member  State,  we  believe  that  the  IAEA  Safety 
Fundamentals 
should 
constitute the minimum obligatory basis for States that 
have  active  civil  nuclear  programmes  with  working 
nuclear  power  plants  and  research  reactors.  It  is  clear 
that  the  existing  international  treaty  basis  concerning 
reaction to nuclear disasters requires improvement. We 
have  before  us  some  new  proposals  by  States  to 
improve  those  instruments,  as  well  as  the  Nuclear 
Safety Convention. We believe that they are worthy of 
our further consideration. 

in 
in 
widespread  concern  about  the  safety  of  nuclear  power 
plants  worldwide  and  have  led  to  deliberations  and 
concerns  about  the  feasibility  of  nuclear  energy  as  a 
source  of  power  generation.  It  is  clear  that  there  are 
many  lessons  to  be  learned  from  the  Fukushima 
accident. 
the 
announcement by the Government of Japan of plans to 
hold  in  2012,  in  cooperation  with  the  IAEA,  an 
international conference on nuclear safety, based on the 
findings  of  the  investigation  of  the  nuclear  power 
accidents. 

the  Agency’s  activities 
aimed  at  improving  nuclear,  radiation,  transport  and 
waste safety worldwide. Ukraine reaffirms its view that 
the  responsibility  for  nuclear  security  rests  with  each 
individual  State.  All  States  have  the  responsibility  to 
establish  appropriate  systems  and 
take  necessary 
that  connection,  we  welcome 
We  strongly  support 
Developments 
Japan  have 
resulted 
In 
A/66/PV.46
to 
adhered 
to 
international 
measures  to  prevent,  detect  and  respond  to  malicious 
acts involving nuclear material.  

Ukraine supports the implementation of the IAEA 
Nuclear Security Plan for 2010-2013. We acknowledge 
the  progress  achieved  by  the  Agency  in  improving 
control  over  radioactive  sources.  In  2010  Ukraine 
announced its decision to get rid of all stocks of highly 
enriched  uranium  by  the  time  of  the  next  Nuclear 
Security  Summit,  while  our  partners  will  provide 
necessary technical and financial assistance to support 
this effort. 

In that connection, we note with concern that six 
years  after  the  Amendment  to  the  Convention  on  the 
Physical  Protection  of  Nuclear  Material  was  adopted 
by  consensus,  only  49  of  the  145  parties  to  the 
Convention  have 
the  Amendment. 
Adherence 
instruments 
legal 
the 
relevant  to  nuclear  security  continues  to  increase,  but 
at a slow pace. Ukraine calls upon all States that have 
not yet done so to adhere to the Amendment as soon as 
possible  and  to  act  in  accordance  with  the  objective 
and  purpose  of  the Amendment  pending  its  entry  into 
force. 
Ukraine  highly  values  the  IAEA  role  in  nuclear 

security 
pay 
considerable attention to the issue at the national level. 
With  the  graduation  of  another  14  nuclear  security 
engineers  from  the  Sevastopol  National  University  of 
Nuclear  Energy  and  Technology  we  have  reached  an 
important  milestone.  We  commend  the Agency  for  its 
invaluable  support  to  us  in  developing  training  and 
education facilities for nuclear security purposes at the 
Sevastopol  National  University,  which  became  the 
Agency’s  earliest  partner 
in  establishing  nuclear 
security  education.  We  confirm  our  willingness  to 
contribute  to  the  implementation  of  the  IAEA  nuclear 
security education programmes. 

Ukraine  also  appreciates  the  considerable  work 
done  by  the Agency  in  strengthening  nuclear  security 
measures  in  connection  with  major  public  events, 
particularly  the  support  that  is  being  consistently 
provided to  Ukraine and  Poland in preparation for the 
2012  Union  of  European  Football  Associations 
European Football Championship. 
Ukraine  reaffirms  the Agency’s  role  in  verifying 

their 
and  ensuring  compliance  by  States  with 
the 
safeguards  obligations  under 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons.  The  Agency’s 
development.  We 
the  Treaty  on 
competence 
11-57396 

17 

Since 
IAEA 
to  both 
obligations.  The 
A/66/PV.46 

system  of  safeguards  is  a  fundamental  component  of 
the  global  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime.  The 
measures  contained in the  additional protocol form an 
integral  part  of 
this  system.  The  comprehensive 
safeguards  agreement,  together  with  the  additional 
protocol,  constitutes 
the  current  best  verification 
standard.  We  note  the  increased  number  of  countries 
that have brought into force the  additional protocol to 
their  comprehensive  safeguards  agreement.  Universal 
adherence  by  States 
instruments  would 
strengthen  the  non-proliferation  regime  and  contribute 
to further enhancing security worldwide. 

January  2006,  Ukraine  has  had  a 
Comprehensive  Safeguards Agreement  and Additional 
Protocol  in  force.  Over  the  past  few  years,  we  have 
worked  hard,  together  with  the  IAEA,  to  receive  its 
broader  conclusion  on  the  implementation  of  our 
safeguards 
safeguards 
implementation  report  for  2010  acknowledged  our 
efforts.  In  2010,  Ukraine  received,  for  the  first  time, 
the  IAEA  broader  conclusion.  We  continue  to  work 
with  the Agency  to  establish  the  conditions  necessary 
for  the  application  of  IAEA  integrated  safeguards  in 
Ukraine. 

importance  of  supporting 
research  on  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy, 
safety,  waste  management, 
especially 
radiation 
protection, 
the  safety  and  efficiency  aspects  of 
advanced technology, and the importance of enhancing 
international  cooperation  in  those  fields.  Maintaining 
competence and know-how across the nuclear sector is 
fundamental to these activities. We view positively the 
increased  amount  of  research  being  carried  out  by  the 
IAEA  concerning  innovative  reactor  technologies  and 
fuel cycles. Ukraine offers the relevant expert services 
to  the  IAEA,  free  of  charge,  in  the  context  of  the 
International  Project  on  Innovative  Nuclear  Reactors 
and  Fuel  Cycles.  Ukraine  will  continue  to  cooperate 
actively  with  the  IAEA  in  the  development  and 
implementation of regional programmes addressing the 
issues  of  the  non-power  use  of  nuclear  technologies, 
namely, medical applications, dosimetry and mitigation 
of the consequences of the Chernobyl catastrophe. 
Ukraine has always been a strong supporter of the 

IAEA  Technical  Cooperation  Programme,  which 
constitutes  an  important  statutory  function  of  the 
Agency.  Ukraine  considers  the  implementation  of  the 
IAEA  Technical  Cooperation  Programme  as 
the 
cornerstone of international cooperation in the peaceful 
We  recognize 
the 
to 
the 
safety 
Regional  and  national 
contributed 
uses  of  nuclear  energy.  I  wish  to  commend  the  work 
done by the IAEA in planning and implementing such 
programmes  and  activities,  which  reflect  the  needs  of 
different  countries  and  different  regions.  Addressing 
the  global  challenges  of  hunger,  disease,  poverty  and 
water-resource management, as well as the creation of 
a  cleaner  and  safer  environment,  is  of  particular 
significance  to  developing  countries.  Ukraine  values 
the efforts of the Agency in those areas. 
technical  cooperation 

projects  have 
to 
and 
effectiveness  of  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy  in 
Ukraine.  We  have  demonstrated  the  tangible  and 
sustainable  results  of  our  cooperation,  particularly 
regarding  safety  improvements  at  our  nuclear  power 
plants. We also appreciate the results already achieved 
in  improving  the  quality  and  effectiveness  of  nuclear 
medicine, radiotherapy and medical physics.  

I would like to mention in particular the modern 
equipment  and  training  for  nuclear  oncology  and 
radiotherapy  that  has  been  provided  to  us.  Human 
health will remain one of the priorities of our technical 
cooperation programme in the future. 

technical 
cooperation  management  and  project  implementation 
to become more efficient and effective, for the benefit 
of  all  Member  States.  It  is  important  to  ensure  fair 
access 
the 
predictable  funding  of  such  programmes.  Beneficiary 
countries  are  key  actors  in  achieving  a  successful 
outcome 
technical  cooperation 
projects.  The  key  to  effectiveness  is  to  meet  the  real 
needs of the Member States. In order to maximize the 
socio-economic impact of the programmes, it is crucial 
that  the  IAEA  further  develop  partnerships  with  other 
organizations where appropriate. 
In  conclusion,  we  would  like  to  join  other 

delegations 
the  IAEA  report  (see 
A/66/95)  to  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth 
session and express our deep appreciation for the work 
of the IAEA Director General and the Agency. 
(Singapore):  The  Singapore 

delegation would like to thank the Director General of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA), 
Mr. Yukiya Amano,  and  his  secretariat  for  the  IAEA’s 
comprehensive annual report (see A/66/95). 
Ukraine  considers  it  important  for 
technical  cooperation 
their  respective 
in  welcoming 
Ms.  Karim
funds  and 
in 
18 

11-57396 
and 
science 
and  verification, 



As the global focal point for nuclear cooperation, 
the IAEA continues to play a crucial role in promoting 
the  safe,  secure  and  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  science 
and  technology.  Its  mission  of  safety  and  security, 
safeguards 
and 
technology  constitute  a  comprehensive  regime,  each 
pillar of which is equally essential. Singapore strongly 
supports  the  IAEA’s  important  work  and  is  pleased  to 
sponsor the draft resolution (A/66/L.6) on the report of 
the IAEA. 

Nuclear  safety  came  into  the  spotlight  this  year 
with 
the  Fukushima  Daiichi  nuclear  accident, 
in 
March.  The  Fukushima  accident  demonstrated  the 
grave  dangers  posed  by  low-probability,  high-impact 
accidents that are difficult to predict and guard against. 
We must therefore work together to further strengthen 
the  global  nuclear  safety  framework  and  the  global 
emergency preparedness and response mechanisms for 
nuclear emergencies. Singapore believes that the IAEA 
should drive that process.  

We thank the Director General for convening the 
high-level Ministerial Conference on Nuclear Safety in 
Vienna in June 2011, to learn from the experiences of 
the  Fukushima  accident.  The  Conference  and  the 
adoption  of  the  12-point  action  plan  at  the  IAEA 
General  Conference  in  September  was  a  first  step 
forward towards a comprehensive review of the global 
nuclear safety framework. The process is a continuing 
one.  Unfortunately,  some  continue  to  insist  that  the 
current global nuclear safety infrastructure is fine as it 
currently  stands  and  that  all  that  is  required  is  better 
adherence  to  and  implementation  of  current  practices. 
My delegation urges all parties to keep an open mind in 
engaging  in  an  honest  and  open  review  of  the  global 
nuclear  safety  framework,  and  to  accord  the  highest 
consideration 
the  safety  of  nuclear 
installations.  Although  the  primary  responsibility  for 
nuclear safety rests with individual States, we must not 
forget that any accident would have a far-reaching and 
potentially  devastating  transboundary  impact.  If  we 
were  to  do  less,  the  potential  grave  consequences 
would be unforgivable, as we would have had a chance 
to do better but did not because of narrow interests. 
Nuclear  non-proliferation  remains  a  core  aspect 

of  the  IAEA’s  mission.  Singapore  firmly  believes  that 
all  States  have  the  right  to  develop  and  use  nuclear 
energy  for  peaceful  purposes.  At  the  same  time,  the 
IAEA  has  the  vital  task  of  ensuring  that  nuclear 
material  and  technology  meant  for  peaceful  purposes 
to  ensuring 
A/66/PV.46
that  countries  enforce  and  step  up 
are  not  diverted  for  non-civilian  uses  that  could 
threaten  regional and international peace and stability. 
The  IAEA’s  safeguards  and  verification  regimes 
provide  credible  assurance 
that  declared  nuclear 
material  and  facilities  are  for  peaceful  uses.  It  is 
therefore both in the interests and the responsibility of 
all  States  to  comply  with  these  regimes.  In  that 
connection,  Singapore  strongly  urges  all  States  that 
have  not  done  so  to  accede  to  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  and  the 
IAEA’s  comprehensive  safeguards  agreement  and 
additional  protocol.  Those  States  that  have  done  so 
should  fully  implement  those  agreements.  As  the 
number of nuclear power reactors is likely to increase 
by  at  least  90,  and  up  to  350,  by  the  year  2030,  it  is 
crucial 
their 
individual measures to ensure security against theft of 
nuclear  material  for  illicit  purposes  and  malicious 
attacks against nuclear facilities. 
A  peaceful  and  secure  world  free  of  nuclear 

weapons  is  one  that  we  all  aspire  to. The  IAEA  has  a 
unique and important mission to fulfil in the promotion 
of  peaceful  applications  of  nuclear  science  and 
technology  and  in  ensuring  that  they  benefit  as  many 
citizens of the world as possible. Some important areas 
that  come  to  mind  include  the  fields  of  cancer 
treatment, food security and water management. This is 
all  the  more  pertinent  given  that  the  world  population 
is continuing to grow and the competition for resources 
is increasingly tighter. 

As  a  member  of  the  IAEA  Board  of  Governors, 
Singapore would like to reiterate our continued support 
for  the  Agency’s  vital  role  and  tasks.  Singapore’s 
cooperation with the IAEA focuses on the applications 
of nuclear technology in areas such as industry, health 
and radiation protection. Over the past decade, we have 
hosted  22  scientific  visits,  83  fellowship  attachments 
and  24  regional  training  events  with  the  IAEA.  The 
most  recent  event  was  the  regional  seminar  on  the 
Agency’s  safeguards  system  for  South-East  Asian 
States with significant nuclear activities, held in March 
this year.  

continue 
advancement of the IAEA’s mission. 
Mr.  Ciobo  (Australia):  Australia  is  pleased  to 

have  the  opportunity  to  commend  Director  General 
Mr. Yukiya Amano for his briefing on the achievements 
In  our  remaining  year  on  the  Board,  we  will 
the 
to  exert  our  utmost  efforts 
for 
11-57396 

19 
in 
the  ministerial 
declaration 
A/66/PV.46 

of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) and 
the  challenges  it  will  face  over  the  coming  years.  We 
are  honoured  to  be  a  member  of  the  IAEA  Board  of 
Governors  and  take  very  seriously  the  responsibility 
that  entails. Australia  attaches  great  importance  to  the 
central  role  played  by  the  IAEA  in  improving  the 
safety  and  security  of  nuclear  activities,  enlarging  the 
humanitarian  contribution  of  nuclear  technology  and 
verifying States’ non-proliferation commitments. 

This year, the twenty-fifth anniversary year of the 
Chernobyl  accident,  we  saw  the  devastating  natural 
disasters  in  Japan  and  the  subsequent  accident  at  the 
Fukushima  nuclear  plant.  Our  thoughts  continue  to  be 
with Japan and its people.  

We  welcome  Director  General  Amano’s  actions 
and initiatives regarding nuclear safety in the wake of 
Fukushima.  We  are  pleased  to  have  been  able  to 
participate in the IAEA Ministerial Conference in June 
and  to  have  contributed  to  the  efforts  to  improve 
nuclear  safety  and  to  address  public  confidence,  as 
reflected 
and 
subsequently  in  the  Action  Plan  on  Nuclear  Safety 
adopted by the IAEA General Conference. 

is  a  strong  and  practical 
demonstration of the priority we all attach to achieving 
the  highest  possible  standards  with  regard  to  nuclear 
safety.  We  encourage  States 
in 
undertaking  the  actions  outlined  in  the  Plan  and  any 
additional  actions  that  are  relevant  to  their  own 
circumstances. 
Australia  continues  to  work  closely  with  the 

Agency  and  our  regional  neighbours  with  regard  to 
nuclear  safety  and  security. Australia  is  committed  to 
best  international  practice  in  regard  to  safeguards, 
safety  and  the  security  of  nuclear  material.  Signifying 
this  commitment,  Australia,  in  collaboration  with  the 
IAEA,  has  established  an 
informal  Vienna-based 
contact  group  for  existing  and  prospective  uranium 
mining 
easy-to-remember 
acronym  “FoRUM”  —  Friends  of  Responsible 
Uranium  Mining  —  as  a  means  of  exchanging  views 
and experiences with regard to best-practice mining of 
uranium.  
the  only  elements 

required 
the 
environment. Australia is also a strong supporter of the 
Agency’s  nuclear  security  programme  and  its  role  in 
international nuclear security initiatives and activities. 
to  properly  protect  people 
Safety  measures  are  not 
The  Action  Plan 
to  be  proactive 
companies,  with 
the 
and 

States  must  comply  with 

The IAEA safeguards system is one of the central 
pillars  of  the  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime.  To  be 
completely  effective,  the  system  must  have  universal 
coverage.  We  continue  to  call  upon  all  of  the  States 
party to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear 
Weapons (NPT) that have yet to fulfil their obligations 
under the Treaty to conclude comprehensive safeguards 
agreements  as  well  as  additional  protocols,  and  to  do 
so without delay.  

Australia has long emphasized the importance of 
the  universalization  of  the  NPT.  We  encourage  those 
States  that  have  not  yet  signed  and  ratified  the Treaty 
to do so as soon as possible. 

their  safeguards 
obligations.  IAEA  safeguards  obligations  are  not 
voluntary.  It  is  therefore  a  matter  of  continuing  regret 
and  deep  concern  that  certain  States  continue  to  be  in 
breach  of  their  safeguards  obligations.  We  call  upon 
those  countries  to  engage  with  the Agency  to  resolve 
all issues, demonstrate conclusively the peaceful intent 
of  their  nuclear  programme  and  comply  fully  with  all 
of  their  international  obligations. Australia  commends 
the Agency  for  its  continuing  efforts  to  resolve  those 
issues. 

Australia  continues  to  work  closely  with  the 
Agency  and  our  regional  neighbours  on  the  peaceful 
applications  of  nuclear  energy.  Australia  shares  its 
skilled  scientific  research  base  with  other  Member 
States  and  facilitates 
the  use  and  exchange  of 
equipment  and  personnel  in  fields  relevant  to  the 
peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  science  and  technology.  We 
are  pleased  to  maintain  our  strong  support  for  and 
contribution  to  the  Agency’s  technical  cooperation 
programme. 
I  am  pleased  to  recall  that  in  the  spirit  of  the 

IAEA  Peaceful  Uses  Initiative,  Australia  contributed 
A$100,000  to  the  IAEA  for  the  marine  benchmark 
the  Fukushima 
study  on 
radioactive 
region. 
Australia worked closely with our regional neighbours 
to  formulate  the  project  and  acknowledges  the  role  of 
the  IAEA  in  achieving  its  prompt  initiation,  with  the 
first meeting hosted in Sydney in late August. 

The Agency plays a vital role in enhancing States’ 
capabilities  to  prevent,  diagnose  and  treat  health 
problems  through  the  use  of  nuclear  techniques.  We 
should never  lose sight of  such humanitarian benefits, 
which the IAEA is uniquely able to provide worldwide. 
impact  of 
the  Asia-Pacific 
the  possible 
in 
releases 
20 

11-57396 
Australia  is  pleased  to  sponsor  and  support  the 


Australia works closely with the Agency in those areas 
and  is  pleased  to  coordinate  with  it  in  providing 
clinical  education  in  radiation  medical  physics  to 
countries in South-East Asia. 

The  external  environment  in  which  the  Agency 
operates is highly fluid, and the Agency must maintain 
the  capacity  to  respond  quickly  and  effectively  to 
external  developments,  whether  related  to  nuclear 
safety,  physical  protection,  nuclear  proliferation  or 
sustainable  development.  Australia  will  continue  to 
provide  technical,  financial  and  political  support  for 
Director  General  Amano’s  efforts  to  strengthen  the 
Agency’s  contribution  to  the  promotion  of  the  use  of 
nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes  and  to  the  cause 
of international peace and security. 

draft resolution on the report of the IAEA (A/66/L.6). 
Mr.  Hermoso  (Philippines):  At  the  outset,  the 

Philippines would like to welcome the newest member 
of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), the 
Lao People’s Democratic Republic — a fellow member 
of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations.  

The  Philippines  welcomes  the  report  of  His 
Excellency Mr. Yukiya Amano, Director General of the 
IAEA,  and  recognizes  the  importance  of  the  Agency. 
At  the  same  time,  the  Philippines  reaffirms  its  strong 
support for the crucial role of the IAEA in assisting its 
member  States  in  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy, 
the transfer of technology to developing countries and 
facilitating  nuclear  knowledge  sharing,  as  well  as  in 
nuclear safety, verification and security. 

The  events  of  the  past  year  presented  significant 
challenges  to  the  work  of  the  IAEA.  The  Fukushima 
nuclear  accident  shook  the  international  community’s 
perceptions  of  nuclear  power,  including  the  safety  of 
existing  power  plants  and  proposed  new  facilities. 
More  important,  it  compelled  a  number  of  countries, 
including  the  Philippines,  to  rethink  their  respective 
national positions on nuclear power. 

However, as oil prices have continued to soar and 
concerns  over  climate  change  persist,  the  interest  in 
nuclear  power  remains,  and  countries  continue  to  turn 
to  the  IAEA  for  assistance  in  the  development  or 
expansion  of  their  nuclear  power  programmes.  The 
IAEA is uniquely placed to respond to the requests of 
its member States for assistance in the development of 
a  safety  infrastructure  for  nuclear  power  programmes, 
A/66/PV.46
today.  On  human  health, 
while  also  promoting  international  cooperation  in 
nuclear safety. The Philippines believes that the IAEA 
should continue to provide assistance to countries, such 
as  ours,  that  are  still  considering  the  inclusion  of 
nuclear  power  in  their  energy  mix,  particularly  in  the 
development  of  a  regulatory  framework,  capacity 
building and the management of radioactive waste. 

In  that  regard,  the  Philippines  supports  the 
IAEA’s  central  role  in  the  area  of  nuclear  safety  and 
welcomes  the  adoption  of  the Action  Plan  on  Nuclear 
Safety,  which  will  serve  as  a  building  block  for  the 
development of more targeted measures for enhancing 
nuclear safety worldwide. 

Through  its  cooperation  with  the  IAEA,  the 
Philippines  has  been  developing  the  necessary  human 
resources  and  physical  infrastructure  in  order  to  use 
nuclear  technologies  to  help  meet  the  challenges  that 
many  of  us  face 
the 
Philippines’ standing request to be part of the Agency’s 
Programme of Action for Cancer Therapy (PACT) was 
finally  approved  for  implementation  this  year.  An 
integrated  review  in  connection  with  PACT,  also 
known  as  an  imPACT  mission,  was  undertaken  in  the 
Philippines in March and enabled our health authorities 
to assess the National Cancer Action Plan and identify 
areas for improvement.  

The Philippines will also be part of a network of 
regional 
training  centres  on  cancer  control  and 
radiotherapy,  which  will  enable  it  to  enhance  the 
capacities  of  its  health  professionals  working  in  the 
area of cancer control and treatment, particularly those 
in  the  provinces.  On  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and 
China,  the  Philippines  has  introduced  resolutions  on 
PACT,  on  the  staffing  of  the Agency’s  secretariat  and 
on women in the secretariat. 

In  the  field  of  nuclear  medicine,  the  Philippines 
has  established  a  radioisotope  laboratory  with  the 
assistance  of  the  Agency.  We  expect  that  this  facility 
will lower the costs of nuclear medicine procedures in 
my country. 

In  the  area  of  the  environment,  we  welcome  the 
Director  General’s  focus  this  year  on  the  Agency’s 
work on issues related to water. As a pilot country for 
the IAEA Water Availability Enhancement Project, the 
Philippines  is  developing  sustainable  and  socially 
responsible  water  resources  management  plans.  In 
April,  the  Philippines  hosted  a  national  workshop, 
which  produced  a  report  analysing  the  country’s 
11-57396 

21 
and 
agricultural 
and 
reaffirms 
the 
importance 
to  achieve 
Furthermore, 
in  2010, 
A/66/PV.46 

capacity  to  conduct  comprehensive  water  resource 
assessments and developed a road map to address gaps 
in hydrological data and information.  

the  Philippines  was 
redesignated  as  an  IAEA  Collaborating  Centre  on  the 
application  of  nuclear  techniques  in  the  study  of 
harmful algal blooms.  
The IAEA has continued to play an important role 

in  helping  countries 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals through its Technical Cooperation 
Programme  and  its  various  activities  in  the  area  of 
nuclear  applications.  We  acknowledge  the  significant 
contribution  of  projects  supported  by  the  Agency’s 
Technical  Cooperation  Programme,  especially  in  the 
areas  of  health  and  nutrition,  environmental  resource 
management 
industrial 
productivity. 

Concerns  persist  about  nuclear  terrorism  and  the 
illicit  trafficking  of  nuclear  and  radioactive  materials. 
The  Philippines 
of 
strengthening  the  Agency’s  activities  in  response  to 
those threats. For its part, the Philippines is committed 
to  strengthening  the  security  of  the  nuclear  and 
radioactive  materials 
that  are  used  for  peaceful 
purposes  and  to  preventing  the  illicit  trafficking  of 
such materials. 
That  commitment  is  embodied  in  our  National 

in 
Nuclear  Security  Plan,  which  was 
cooperation  with 
symbolic 
commissioning  ceremony  of  the  Megaports  Initiative 
facilities  at  the  port  of  Manila  this  year  marked  a 
milestone  in  our  bilateral  cooperation  with  the  United 
States  on  nuclear  security.  Through  the  Global  Threat 
Reduction Initiative, the Philippines also works closely 
with  Australia,  the  United  States  and  our  fellow 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN) 
members in securing radioactive sources in the region. 

to 
risk  of  nuclear 
confront  us 
proliferation. The Philippines reaffirms the importance 
of  strengthening  the  Agency’s  nuclear  verification 
capabilities  and  building  confidence  in  the  peaceful 
nature  of  all  nuclear  activities.  The  conclusion  of 
comprehensive  safeguards  agreements  and  additional 
protocols  will  go  a  long  way  in  efforts  to  reduce  the 
risk of nuclear proliferation. 
Another  major  challenge 
that  continues 
IAEA.  The 
is 
the 
increasing 
finalized 

The Philippines shares the vision of a world free 

of  nuclear  weapons  and  strongly  supports 
the 
establishment of nuclear-weapon-free zones as a means 
of  contributing  to  international  peace  and  security.  In 
our  own  region,  ASEAN  established  the  South-East 
Asia  Nuclear-Weapon-Free  Zone.  We  welcome  the 
progress in the discussions held in recent months with 
the  nuclear-weapon  States  on  their  possible  accession 
to the Treaty of Bangkok.  

We  also  welcome  the  decision  of  the  Director 
General to convene a forum to discuss the experiences 
of  the  five  existing  nuclear-weapon-free  zones,  which 
could  be  of  possible  relevance  to  the  creation  of  a 
nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the  Middle  East.  The 
Philippines is committed to contributing to the success 
of the forum, which we believe will serve as an important 
confidence-building  measure  that  will  contribute  to  the 
realization of the 2012 conference on the establishment of a 
Middle  East  zone  free  of  nuclear  weapons  and  all  other 
weapons of mass destruction, as provided for in the Final 
Document of the 2010 Review Conference of the Parties to 
the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
(NPT/CONF.2010/50 (Vol. I)). 

The IAEA has been successful in charting its way 
forward. Progress will not be easy, as political realities 
and financial constraints alike pose difficult hurdles for 
the  Agency  to  overcome.  The  Philippines  believes, 
however, that now is the time for IAEA member States 
to set aside all differences and to stand united in order 
to advance our common objectives.  

Mr.  Diallo  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French):  I  am 
pleased  to  participate  in  this  annual  meeting,  which 
affords  the  Assembly  an  opportunity  to  consider  the 
vitally important activities of the International Atomic 
Energy Agency (IAEA).  
However,  I  must  draw  the  IAEA  secretariat’s 

attention 
the  difficulties  experienced  by  my 
delegation in being granted timely access to the report 
(see A/66/95)  of  the  Director  General.  My  delegation 
strongly regrets that situation and hopes that corrective 
measures will be taken in that regard.  

Among the most pressing concerns of States, the 
dilemma  posed  by  nuclear  technology  is  one  of  the 
most widely shared and is undoubtedly one of the most 
difficult to address. 

Indeed,  while  the  many  applications  of  nuclear 
energy, including in the areas of health, agriculture and 
to 
11-57396 
the 
22 



electricity  generation,  made  it  seem  undeniably  useful 
to  many  countries,  its  use  has  also  created  certain 
safety  and  security  risks.  In  truth,  the  difficulties  in 
managing  nuclear  risk  are  steadily  increasing  as  a 
result of growing environmental hazards, as evidenced 
by  the  unfortunate  nuclear  accident  that  occurred  in 
March  in  Fukushima,  Japan.  The  accident  finally 
convinced us of the need to improve nuclear safety and 
security measures by better adapting them to meet new 
challenges. 

That  realization  undoubtedly  inspired  the  IAEA 
Board of Governors to adopt an Action Plan on Nuclear 
Safety to improve the global nuclear safety framework. 
My  delegation  welcomes  that  valuable  initiative  and 
the  high-level  meeting  on  nuclear  safety  and  security, 
held on 22 September and convened by the Secretary-
General. As  it  did  on  that  occasion,  Senegal  reiterates 
the  urgency  of  reviewing  the  rules  and  principles 
governing  the  application  and  monitoring  of  nuclear 
safety  and  security  standards,  so  as  to  ensure  greater 
transparency  and  accountability  in  the  framework  of 
appropriate procedures. 

Drawing on our past experience, we must take all 
necessary  measures  to  bolster  nuclear  safety  and 
security,  as  well  as  to  better  prepare  for  emergencies 
and  protect  people  and  the  environment  from  the 
harmful  effects  of  ionizing  radiation  and  radiation 
risks.  That  is  the  only  way  that  we  will  be  able  to 
restore  confidence  in  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
energy.  The  pursuit  of  the  peaceful  use  of  atomic 
energy  should  strictly  take  into  account  the  need  to 
protect human and environmental health.  

Senegal highly values its scientific and technical 
cooperation with the IAEA, in particular in the areas of 
health  and  nutrition.  That  long  history  of  cooperation 
has  been  enriched  by  many  programmes,  some  of 
which  I  am  pleased  to  mention:  the  application  of  the 
sterile 
that 
Senegalese  research  entities  have  come  to  serve  as 
benchmarks  in  this  field;  our  research  programme  on 
nutritional  development  for  women  has  also  been 
successful;  and  finally,  the  acquisition  of  a  gamma 
camera,  which  is  considered  a  major  step  forward  in 
medical science. 

Armed  with  that  experience,  we  are  in  a  good 
position  to  testify  to  the  fact  that  the  IAEA  has  also 
contributed  to  our  country’s  advances  in  the  areas  of 
society  and  health.  For  that  reason,  we  must  always 
technique,  which  has  ensured 
insect 
A/66/PV.46
keep  in  mind  that  positive  accomplishments  in  the 
laudable  and  difficult  matters  before  the  Agency, 
especially  relating  to  verification,  cooperation  and  the 
provision  of  assistance,  call  for  our  unwavering 
support. 

My  delegation  is  also  convinced  that  the  IAEA 
will remain an institution worthy of our efforts, which 
must  be  strengthened  and  appropriately  resourced  in 
order to implement its mandate. 
Mr.  Guerber  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 

Switzerland would like to focus its remarks on what, in 
our  view,  was  the  key  issue  before  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  in  recent  months, 
namely, the nuclear accident at Fukushima. 
As  that  event  demonstrated,  such  disasters  have 

transboundary  and  multidimensional  consequences, 
and  should  therefore  be  managed  with  a  global 
approach. Switzerland therefore welcomes the adoption 
at  the  fifty-fifth  session  of  the  General  Conference  of 
the IAEA in September of the Action Plan on Nuclear 
Safety.  Switzerland  believes  that,  by  its  very  nature, 
the IAEA must assume the leading role in coordinating 
the international efforts to strengthen nuclear safety. 

the 
negotiation  process  of  the  Action  Plan  and,  like  a 
number  of  States,  has  expressed  regrets  about  the 
relatively  modest  ambitions  contained  in  the  final 
document as adopted. However, we consider the Action 
Plan as a first step in a process that should lead to less 
voluntary  commitments  from  member  States  in  the 
field of nuclear safety. 

the  speedy 
establishment  by  the  IAEA  Director  General  of  a 
Nuclear  Safety  Action  Team 
the 
implementation  of  the  Action  Plan.  Similarly,  we 
welcome the  commitment made by the  IAEA Director 
General to inform member States on progress made in 
implementing 
the  Action  Plan.  Switzerland  also 
encourages  all  IAEA  member  States  to  fulfil  their 
obligations related to the implementation of the Action 
Plan at the national level. 

Switzerland  will  remain  fully  committed  in  this 
area, with a view to creating a nuclear safety regime so 
that  we  can  assure  our  societies  that  the  development 
of  civilian  nuclear  energy  will  not  act  as  a  sword  of 
Damocles constantly hanging over their heads. 
Switzerland  was  actively 
to  coordinate 
Switzerland 
therefore  welcomes 
involved 
in 
11-57396 

23 

the 
A/66/PV.46 

Mr. Kodama (Japan): Let me begin by thanking 

the  Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency, Mr. Yukiya Amano, for presenting the 
annual report (see A/66/95) of the International Atomic 
Energy Agency (IAEA). 

The accident at Tokyo Electric Power Company’s 
Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Plant in March was 
triggered  by  the  Great  East  Japan  Earthquake  and  its 
resulting tsunamis. The accident caused grave damage 
to Japan and its people. Japan is now moving forward 
to overcome that tragic event. I would like to take this 
opportunity  once  again 
to  extend  our  deepest 
appreciation to all of the Member States, the IAEA and 
all other organizations that have rendered their support, 
for their assistance and solidarity. 
I  would  also  like  to  express  our  appreciation  for 

the 
leadership  demonstrated  by  Director  General 
Amano  and  the  continuous  efforts  made  by  the  IAEA 
since the accident. Those efforts include supporting the 
about 
provision  of 
accident; 
information 
dispatching  a  number  of 
teams,  experts  and 
international  missions  to  the  area;  and  adopting  the 
Action Plan on Nuclear Safety. 

Thanks to that invaluable support, the situation at 
the  plant  is  moving  steadily  towards  restoration.  We 
are  planning  to  move  up  the  existing  target  date  and 
will endeavour to achieve cold shutdown by the end of 
the  year.  In  that  regard,  Japan  will  continue  to  work 
closely  with  partners  around 
in 
particular  with  the  IAEA,  to  make  the  most  of  all 
available  international  expertise.  For  instance,  Japan 
will  host  a  high-level  conference  with  the  IAEA  in 
2012. Through  that  initiative,  we  intend  to  share  with 
the 
results  of  our 
comprehensive review on nuclear power plants and the 
future direction of nuclear safety measures. 

The IAEA has also played an instrumental role in 
ensuring  the  success  of  the  United  Nations  high-level 
meeting  on  nuclear  safety  and  security.  Both  Prime 
Minister  Noda 
and  Foreign  Minister  Gemba 
participated  in  the  meeting  and  expressed  Japan’s 
resolve  not  only  to  overcome  its  own  challenges  but 
also to share with the international community lessons 
learned 
the  accident  at  Fukushima.  The 
conference demonstrated the central and indispensable 
role  of  the  IAEA  in  consolidating  international  efforts 
to  enhance  nuclear  safety  throughout  the  international 
community. 
international  community 
the  world,  and 
from 
the 
to 
is 
lead 
issued  a 
the  ministers 
the  Six-Party  Talks.  It 

The  IAEA  is  the  only  international  organization 
with expertise in all aspects of nuclear energy, and not 
only  in  the  areas  of  nuclear  safety  and  security.  We 
must not relax our efforts to support such roles on the 
part  of  the  IAEA.  On  21  September,  Japan  convened 
here  in  New York  the  third  ministerial  meeting  of  the 
Non-Proliferation and Disarmament Initiative, a group 
consisting  of  10  non-nuclear-weapon  States.  At  the 
meeting, 
joint  statement 
expressing members’ strong support for steps to further 
advance  the  implementation  of  the  action  plan  agreed 
at  the  2010  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons. 
Japan  will  continue 
international  efforts 
towards a world without nuclear weapons. 
The  North  Korean  nuclear  issue  constitutes  a 

threat  to  peace  and  security  in  East  Asia  and  to  the 
international community as a whole and poses a serious 
challenge  to  the  regime  established  by  the  Treaty  on 
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT). The 
North  Korean  uranium  enrichment  programme  is  a 
clear  violation  of 
the  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions and the joint statement of the fourth round 
of 
the 
international  community  to  continue  to  strongly  urge 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to abandon 
its  nuclear  weapons  and  related  programmes,  as 
stipulated in the relevant Security Council resolutions. 
In  that  regard,  Japan  welcomes  the  comprehensive 
report on the North Korean nuclear issue that the IAEA 
Director General submitted to the Board of Governors 
at its September meeting. 

With  regard  to  the  Iranian  nuclear  issue,  it  is 
indispensable  for  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  to  take 
action 
the 
confidence  of  the  international  community.  While 
Japan  notes  that  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  invited 
the  IAEA  to  visit  its  facilities  in  August,  we  remain 
seriously  concerned  that  it  continues  to  engage  in 
uranium  enrichment  activities.  In  that  regard,  Japan 
supports the efforts of the Director General to conduct 
discussions  with  Iran,  as  well  as 
the  dedicated 
activities  of  the  Agency  to  resolve  the  Iran  nuclear 
issue.  Japan  will  continue  to  act  in  concert  with  the 
international  community 
to  find  a  peaceful  and 
diplomatic settlement of this issue. 

Japan  highly  appreciates  the  efforts  made  by 
Director  General  Amano  towards  the  holding  of  the 
forum  on  the  exchange  of  experiences  of  possible 
to  alleviate  all  suspicions  and  win 
important  for 
24 

11-57396 
in  2012  on 


relevance  to  the  creation  of  a  nuclear-weapons-free 
zone  in  the  Middle  East  scheduled  for  November, 
which  I  expect  will  contribute  significantly  to  the 
convening  of  a  conference 
the 
establishment  of  a  Middle  East  zone  free  of  all 
weapons of mass destruction. 

Showing support for the non-proliferation efforts 
of  other  member  States  and  of  the  IAEA  continues  to 
be  a  priority  for  Japan.  Japan  has  hosted  the  Asian 
Senior-level  Talks  on  Non-Proliferation  and  has 
provided  cooperation  for  IAEA  activities  designed  to 
promote the entry into force of additional protocols. On 
31  May,  Japan  also  co-organized  with  Poland  and 
Turkey a seminar in New York to discuss the effective 
implementation of the Security Council resolutions on 
non-proliferation. We believe that it is imperative that 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  continue  to  be 
engaged  in  this  matter.  Japan  therefore  plans  to 
organize  a  second  such  meeting  in  New  York  next 
December. 

The  IAEA’s  continuing  efforts  to  utilize  nuclear 
technologies  to  develop  solutions  for  global  issues, 
such  as  water  shortages  and  lack  of  access  to  cancer 
therapies 
are  highly 
appreciated  by  member  States.  In  that  connection, 
Japan welcomes the IAEA initiative to raise awareness 
within  the  wider  United  Nations  community  through 
the  briefing  it  organized  in  New  York  in  September 
immediately  preceding  the  Science  Forum  held  in 
Vienna.  

To  ensure  a  safer  nuclear  future,  the  training  of 
nuclear  experts  to  underpin  such  a  vision  is  essential. 
To  that  end,  Japan  established  a  nuclear  human 
resource development network last November. Through 
such  efforts,  Japan  will  cooperate  with  the  IAEA  to 
nurture capable experts. 

Despite  the  tragic  events  that  befell  Japan  this 
March,  I  am  convinced  that,  through  the  resilience  of 
our people and assisted by the generous support of our 
partners  in  the  international  community,  including  the 
IAEA,  we  will  overcome  the  challenge  those  events 
have  presented.  I  am  equally  confident  that  we  will 
find  a  path  towards  a  safer  nuclear  future,  benefiting 
from  the  lessons  learned  in  this  instance  and  the 
accumulated wisdom of the world in this field. 

Mrs. Aitimova (Kazakhstan): Kazakhstan wishes 
to congratulate Mr. Yukiya Amano, Director General of 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for 
in  developing 
countries, 
A/66/PV.46
in  nuclear 
in 
technologies,  hence 
(NPT).  We  have 
for  managing 
his  comprehensive  report  (see  A/66/95),  and  in  that 
connection,  we  are pleased to sponsor  draft resolution 
A/66/L.6. As  a  member  of  the Agency,  Kazakhstan  is 
proud of its record of collaboration with the IAEA and 
will continue to strengthen that productive partnership.  

President  Nursultan  Nazarbayev,  speaking  at  the 
high-level  meeting  on  nuclear  safety  and  security 
convened  by  the  Secretary-General  on  22  September 
2011,  aptly  summarized  the  IAEA’s  responsibility  by 
saying  that  it  must  protect  humankind  from  nuclear 
weapons,  counter  potential  nuclear  terrorism,  ensure 
the  safety  of  nuclear  power  and  advance  human 
betterment through peaceful purposes.  

He  also  said  that  it  was  important,  in  order  to 
achieve  those  ends,  to  bring  international  legal  norms 
into  line  with  the  reality  of  the  existence  of  de  facto 
nuclear-weapon  States. At  the  same  time,  the  greatest 
risks are associated with States that are involved in the 
black  market 
the 
importance  of  credible  compliance  by  States  parties 
with  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
improve  global 
Weapons 
mechanisms 
the 
development of nuclear power and the safety of nuclear 
facilities.  

President  Nazarbayev  also  proposed  conducting 
regular  stress  tests  of  nuclear  plants  and  protections 
systems  and  developing  rapid  rescue  responses  under 
the auspices of the IAEA. 

My  country  is  a  major  producer  of  uranium  ore 
and has the fuel fabrication capability to further expand 
the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  within 
the 
framework 
safeguards.  Kazakhstan 
collaborates  with  the  Russian  Federation  to  make  its 
uranium  available  for  enrichment  at  the  National 
Nuclear Centre in Angarsk, Siberia, for use as nuclear 
fuel 
the 
Kurchatov  Nuclear  Technology  Park  under  IAEA 
surveillance. 

My  delegation  supports  the  IAEA  initiative  to 
develop  a  new  non-political  and  non-discriminatory 
framework  for  utilizing  nuclear  energy  based  on 
multilateral  approaches  to  the  nuclear  fuel  cycle  and 
available 
to  all  member  States  complying  with 
safeguards.  In  that  way,  no  State  should  have  to 
surrender its rights under the NPT.  
in  power  reactors,  and  on  developing 
to 
processes 
of 
IAEA 
11-57396 

25 

to 
in 
the 
capacity,  Kazakhstan 
transparently  abides  by 
Kazakhstan  has  officially  confirmed 
A/66/PV.46 


the 
Agency its offer to host an IAEA nuclear fuel bank for 
countries unable to acquire nuclear fuel supplies in the 
market.  As  soon  as  the  exact  site  in  my  country  has 
been  determined,  steps  will  be  taken  to  establish  the 
bank. In addition, our national atomic energy company, 
Kazatomprom, is in the process of creating a vertically 
integrated  establishment  with  a  complete  nuclear  fuel 
cycle in compliance with IAEA standards. 

The  Central  Asian  Nuclear-Weapon-Free  Zone, 
the Treaty for which was signed in Semipalatinsk, is an 
additional  contribution  to  our  region,  and  Kazakhstan 
strictly  and 
IAEA 
safeguards  agreement  and  additional  protocol  in  order 
to  reduce  the  risk  of  nuclear  terrorism  and  smuggling 
of nuclear weapons and radioactive materials.  
As current Chair of the Ministerial Council of the 

its 
Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation,  and 
national 
the 
supports 
establishment  of  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the 
Middle  East  as  a  solution  that  supports  peace  in  the 
region.  Working  together  with  the  facilitator,  we 
commend 
the  work  of 
the  2012 
conference on this issue.  

We  are  implementing  in  a  consistent  manner  the 
International Convention for the Suppression of Acts of 
Nuclear  Terrorism  and  Security  Council  resolution 
1540 (2004), in order to strengthen measures aimed at 
combating  illegal  trafficking  in  nuclear  and  other 
materials. In September, with the support of the United 
Nations  Office  for  Disarmament  Affairs  and 
the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe, 
we  hosted  a  Security  Council  resolution  1540  (2004) 
training  workshop  for  30  experts  from  the  Central 
Asian  region,  funded  by  the  Governments  of  Norway 
and the United States of America. As a member of the 
Nuclear  Suppliers  Group  and  the  Zangger  Committee, 
Kazakhstan  maintains  the  strictest  control  over  its 
equipment  and  installations  that  enrich  uranium  and 
reprocess spent nuclear fuel. 

In  view  of  the  growing  importance  of  nuclear 
energy, Kazakhstan has entered into an agreement with 
the  IAEA  on  technical  cooperation  for  2010-2015  to 
develop nuclear energy for nuclear education, medicine 
and  agriculture, 
reactor  safety,  nuclear 
technology, radioisotope and radiation applications for 
collective global human security. 
the  IAEA  on 
research 
to 
the  IAEA’s  work 
Russia  greatly  values 
the  Director  General  of 
Mr.  Pankin  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke 

An  issue  of  concern  to  us  is  that  Kazakhstan, 
though a key and responsible member of the IAEA, is 
being denied the opportunity to participate in the work 
of  elective  bodies  because  of  the  rules  of  procedure 
currently in place. Kazakhstan fully supports the early 
entry into force of the amendments to article VI of the 
IAEA Statute, and we are confident that a solution will 
be  found.  I  would  like  to  state  that  Kazakhstan 
contributes regularly to the IAEA budget, as well as to 
the Technical Cooperation Fund. 

To  conclude,  we  extend  our  full  support  to  the 
Director  General  in  every  area  of  the  Agency’s 
mandate to address global issues of nuclear technology. 
in 

Russian): The Russian delegation would like to express 
its  appreciation 
the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA), 
Mr. Yukiya Amano, for his presentation of the report of 
the Agency (see A/66/95). 

in 
improving  and  strengthening  the  global  non-proliferation 
regime, and in ensuring wide and safe uses of nuclear 
energy. The Agency contributes significantly to solving 
problems  in  the  areas  of  reliable  energy  supplies, 
combating global climate change and promoting health 
and  well-being  around  the  world.  It  is  also  important 
that  the  IAEA  continue  to  increase  its  efforts  to 
broaden  international  cooperation  in  the  area  of  the 
peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy.  With  regard  to  the 
IAEA’s  activities,  we  should  not  omit  to  note  the 
unique  nature  of  its  verification  mechanism,  which 
enables  extremely  effective  monitoring  of  States’ 
compliance  with  their  non-proliferation  obligations 
under  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  (NPT).  We  believe  it  is  important  that  the 
Agency  continue  to  expand  its  oversight  capabilities, 
including 
safeguards 
agreements  and  their  additional  protocols,  as  the 
generally  recognized  standards  of  verification  of 
Governments’  compliance  with  their  nuclear  non-
proliferation obligations. 

Russia  is  an  active  participant  as  a  financial 
donor  in  projects  aimed  at  strengthening  the  IAEA’s 
safeguards system, including by providing funding for 
implementing  national  programmes  of  scientific  and 
technical support for the Agency’s safety activities. We 
wholeheartedly  support  the  IAEA’s  efforts  in  the  area 
of 
the  provision  of 
technical  cooperation  and 
through  acceptance  of 
its 
26 

11-57396 


appropriate  assistance  to  developing  countries.  One 
such  example  of  international  cooperation  that  was 
conducted  successfully  under  the  Agency’s  auspices 
was the completion of an international IAEA project on 
innovative  reactors  and  the  nuclear  fuel  cycle,  which 
Russia  initiated.  We  are  supporting  the  efforts  of  the 
IAEA secretariat in financing the project’s budget, and 
we  call  on  all  countries  taking  part  in  the  project  to 
help provide direct financing for it as shareholders. The 
Russian Federation made the decision to provide long-
term  funding  for  the  project  for  the  period  2008  to 
2012 in the amount of Rub 23 million annually. 

With  regard  to  the  large-scale  development  of 
nuclear  energy,  the  Russian  Federation  is  prioritizing 
the following efforts: developing a new architecture for 
peaceful  nuclear  cooperation  based  on  multilateral 
approaches  to  the  nuclear  fuel  cycle,  guaranteeing  the 
provision of  services  related to the nuclear fuel  cycle, 
and  finding  solutions  for  issues  relating  to  spent 
nuclear  fuel  and  radioactive  waste.  Based  on  those 
priorities,  Russia  has  launched  an  initiative  for  the 
development  of  a  global  nuclear  energy  infrastructure 
and  the  establishment  of  international  centres  for  the 
provision of nuclear-fuel-cycle services.  

We  note  with  satisfaction  that  this  initiative  has 
proved to be needed, and has genuinely contributed to 
resolving issues in providing unhindered access to the 
benefits  of  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy  for  all 
States parties to the NPT while complying in good faith 
with  their  non-proliferation  obligations.  In  practice  it 
gives  States  the  ability  to  take  advantage  of  nuclear 
energy  and  meet  their  needs  for  nuclear  fuel  without 
incurring high costs or the security risks relating to the 
proliferation  of  components  of  the  nuclear  fuel  cycle. 
In connection with that initiative we have, jointly with 
Kazakhstan,  Ukraine  and  Armenia,  established  in 
Russia an international centre for enriched uranium, in 
which all States are invited to participate in developing 
nuclear  power  in  compliance  with  their  non-proliferation 
obligations. 

Another  important  step  in  creating  a  global 
nuclear  energy  infrastructure  has  been  the  creation  in 
Russia of guaranteed reserves of low-enriched uranium 
under 
fully 
operational and can be used by States members of the 
Agency 
their  non-proliferation 
obligations. 
IAEA  administration. 
complying  with 
is  already 
It 
A/66/PV.46
of 
in 
the 
legal 
international 
discrepancies 
the  sessions  of 

We firmly believe that it is essential that we learn 
the lessons of the situation resulting from the accident 
at  the  Fukushima  Daiichi  1  nuclear  power  plant  in 
order  to  prevent  its  being  repeated  in  the  future.  A 
thorough  and  professional  analysis  of  the  reasons  and 
evolution  of  the  accident  and  its  results  should  be 
conducted under the auspices of the IAEA in its central 
role  as  the  sole  international  organization  possessing 
the  necessary  experience  and  authority.  We  welcome 
the  results  of 
the  IAEA’s  June 
ministerial  Conference  on  Nuclear  Safety  concerning 
the power plant accident in Japan, and the participants’ 
joint  declaration  affirming  the  necessity  of  improving 
the 
framework,  as  well  as 
technological  and  organizational  aspects  of  nuclear 
safety.  The  declaration  echoes  the  proposals  of  the 
President  of  the  Russian  Federation  concerning  the 
elimination 
relevant 
international  legal  documents,  such  as  addenda  to  the 
Convention  on  Nuclear  Safety  and  the  Convention  on 
Early Notification of a Nuclear Accident. Furthermore, 
Russia has also introduced proposals for improving the 
IAEA’s safety standards. We believe that our initiatives 
will receive broad support and will be carried out. 
regional  non-proliferation 

challenges,  we  commend 
IAEA’s  practical 
contribution  to  the  multilateral  search  for  ways  of 
solving  them.  We  will  provide  appropriate  support  to 
the  Agency  in  its  efforts  to  implement  the  relevant 
safeguards agreements in Iran and Syria and make use 
of 
to  establish  a  reliably 
functioning  nuclear  non-proliferation  regime.  Russia 
sees no alternative to political and diplomatic solutions 
to the situation concerning  the nuclear programmes in 
Iran and the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. 
In conclusion, I would like to affirm our support 

for 
the 
the  draft 
International Atomic  Energy Agency  (A/66/L.6). As  a 
sponsor, Russia fully agrees with the importance of the 
Agency’s  work  and  is  convinced  that  the Agency  will 
continue 
the  strengthening  of 
international  security  and  solving  the  problems  of  a 
reliable energy source. 
in  Russian): 

Belarus  attaches  great  importance  to  the  activities  of 
the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) as the 
leading international body working in the nuclear area, 
and welcomes the report of the Director General of the 
Agency, Mr. Yukiya Amano. 
Ms.  Kolontai  (Belarus)  (spoke 
resolution  on 
its  expertise 
in  order 
to  work 
towards 
the 
report  of 
With 
regard 
to 
the 
11-57396 

27 

jointly  with 
the  structure  of  Belarus’s  programme 
A/66/PV.46 


As  a  founding  member  State  of  the  Agency, 
Belarus feels that it has a vested interest in the IAEA’s 
active  work  in  fostering  the  peaceful  and  safe  use  of 
nuclear energy and does all that it can to contribute to 
attaining  those  aims.  We  consider  that  the  IAEA’s 
Technical Cooperation Programme is an important tool 
for the Agency in achieving those aims. In accordance 
with 
for 
the  basic  priorities  of  our  country’s 
2008-2013, 
technical  cooperation,  conducted 
the 
IAEA,  are  the  development  of  a  national  nuclear 
energy  infrastructure,  the  use  of  nuclear  technologies 
in health care and the restoration of areas afflicted as a 
result of the Chernobyl atomic power plant accident. 
In  2008,  the  Republic  of  Belarus  made  the 

launch  a  national  nuclear  power 
decision 
programme.  The  preparations  for  building  an  atomic 
power  station  are  being 
in  close 
coordination  with  the  Agency.  Belarus  will  soon 
embark  on  the  practical  phase  of  construction  of  the 
power  station.  In  realizing  this  complicated  project, 
Belarus will continue to comply firmly and rigorously 
with  its  international  nuclear  obligations  and  to  abide 
by international security norms and standards. In order 
to  complete  the  nuclear  power  plant  project,  we  in 
Belarus  are  developing  the  necessary  infrastructure, 
preparing 
training 
personnel. That work is being carried out in a thorough 
and transparent manner by drawing on the expertise of 
the IAEA, as well as on that of other States with broad 
experience  in  the  sphere  of  nuclear  energy.  The 
Technical  Assistance  Programme  of  the  IAEA  is  also 
playing an important role in this process.  
framework  and  actively 
implemented 
legal 
to 
to 
strengthening 
implement  an 
integrated  plan 

The  twenty-fifth  anniversary  of  the  Chernobyl 
accident  and  the  recent  tragic  events  following  the 
powerful  earthquake  in  Japan  underscore  the  urgency 
of 
for  nuclear  and 
radiological safety. For Belarus, nuclear safety is not a 
theoretical concept. We consider the matter of nuclear 
safety an undisputed priority. That approach is written 
into  our  national  laws  and  built  into  our  current 
practice.  Together  with  the  IAEA,  Belarus  is  working 
to ensure nuclear safety.  

As  an  example  of  that  cooperation,  we  are 
beginning 
that 
provides for physical nuclear safety in the Republic of 
Belarus. The implementation of that plan would be an 
exemplary contribution on the part of Belarus towards 
developing an international regime for physical nuclear 
safety.  However,  we  do  not  plan  to  stop  there  in  our 
cooperation activities aimed at ensuring nuclear safety. 

Today,  we  face  the  challenge  of  re-establishing 
trust in nuclear energy, which without a doubt requires 
solutions  that  will  enable  us  to  raise  the  quality  of 
nuclear  safety  to  a  higher  level.  That  aim  can  be 
achieved  only  if  we  work  closely  with  IAEA  member 
States  and  other  organizations  and  partners  through 
effective  coordination  of  our  efforts  in  a  sustained 
spirit  of 
transparency  and  cooperation.  We  are 
convinced  that  IAEA  should  continue  to  play  a 
leadership  role 
its 
international  nuclear  safety 
reaction 
mechanisms to deal with abnormal nuclear situations. 

the  process  of  reforming 
  The meeting rose at 1 p.m. 
regime  and 
the 
regimes 
in 
28 

11-57396 
