
A/66/PV.45
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

45th plenary meeting 
Monday, 31 October 2011, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 






Member  States,  as  well  as  the  United  Nations  and  all 
other  relevant  stakeholders,  to  take  advantage  of  the 
Year  as  a  way  of  promoting  cooperatives  and  raising 
awareness of their contribution to social and economic 
development. 

Also,  by  its  resolution  65/184  of  21  December 
2010,  the  Assembly  decided  to  convene,  at  its  sixty-
sixth  session,  one  plenary  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly  devoted  to  the  launch  of  the  International 
Year of Cooperatives 2012. 

Today,  we  are  launching  the  2012  International 
Year of Cooperatives, based on the theme “Cooperative 
enterprises build a better world”. We come together to 
mark  this  important  year  because  we  recognize  that 
people must be at the centre of the social and economic 
development  agenda.  No  country  can  develop  unless 
the  people 
themselves  are  developed.  Enterprises 
organized  on  the  cooperative  principles  of  self-help, 
democracy,  equality,  equity  and  solidarity  contribute 
immensely  to  this  approach.  They  reduce  poverty, 
create jobs and promote social integration. And they do 
so in the firm belief in the ethical values of openness, 
honesty, social responsibility and caring for others. 

Cooperative  movements  have  existed  in  many 
countries over the past 150 years, and today they play a 
pivotal 
the  United  Nations 
development  plan,  including  in  efforts  to  achieve  the 
Millennium Development Goals. Accordingly, Member 
States have repeatedly recognized the special character 
of the cooperative movement. The need for successful 
relationships  between  cooperatives  and  the  public 
in  advancing 
role 
  The meeting was called to order at 3.25 p.m. 

Tribute to the memory of His Royal Highness Crown 
Prince Sultan Bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud of Saudi Arabia 
The President (spoke in Arabic): I would like to 

take the opportunity to pay my respects at the death of 
His  Royal  Highness  Crown  Prince  Sultan  Bin 
Abdulaziz  Al-Saud  of  Saudi  Arabia.  It  was  with 
profound sadness and heartfelt grief that we learned of 
the passing of His Royal Highness. 

His  Royal  Highness  played  a  significant  role  in 
the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia and throughout the Arab 
and Muslim world. His Highness was greatly respected 
around  the  world  for  his  vision,  his  wisdom  and  his 
statesmanship. On my own behalf and on behalf of the 
Member  States  of  the  United  Nations,  I  would  like  to 
extend my sincere condolences to the royal family and 
to the Government and people of Saudi Arabia. 

Agenda item 27 
Social development 
  (b)  Social development, including questions 




relating to the world social situation and to 
youth, ageing, disabled persons and the family 
  Meeting devoted to the launch of the 
International Year of Cooperatives 2012 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Members  will 

recall  that  in  its  resolution  64/136  of  18  December 
2009,  the  Assembly  proclaimed  the  year  2012  the 
International Year  of  Cooperatives  and  encouraged  all 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-57174 (E) 
*1157174* 



the 
to  meet 
that  strive 
communities 
A/66/PV.45 

sector  is  evident  in  the  commitments  made  and 
strategies  adopted  at 
the  major  United  Nations 
conferences and summits.  

At today’s launch, we will focus our deliberations 
on  the  achievements  of  cooperatives.  We  will  discuss 
how  to  advance  our  support  for  their  objectives  of 
bringing people together to collectively resolve societal 
problems at the grass-roots level.  
Cooperatives  offer  a  member-owned  model  of 

economic  organizations 
the 
economic  needs  of  members.  The  cooperative 
movement is also a catalytic force essential to meeting 
the  global  economic  and  employment  challenges  of  a 
highly  competitive  global  marketplace.  Cooperatives 
play  a  mediating  role  in  reconciling  the  logic  of  the 
market  economy  with 
imperatives  of  social 
inclusion  and  ownership.  That  is  particularly  relevant 
and important in the aftermath of the global economic 
and financial crisis.  
Cooperative  enterprises  are a means to  revitalize 

disadvantaged 
creating 
dependency. Cooperatives with operations in nearly all 
socio-economic  sectors  provide  opportunities 
for 
dignified  and  productive  employment.  Cooperative 
enterprises  empower  whole  communities  and  provide 
special  support  to  disenfranchised  groups,  such  as  the 
disabled, women and youth.  
By  virtue  of  their  organizational  characteristics, 

cooperative 
and 
community-responsive.  They  continue  to  aggregate 
economic  power,  thereby  enabling  communities  to 
compete  successfully  in  the  global  marketplace.  In 
addition  to  providing  affordable  financial  services  to 
poor  and  low-income  people,  cooperatives  have  been 
instrumental 
assistance, 
managerial guidance, equipment and training to people 
in need. 

Cooperatives  contribute  to  food  security,  rural 
development  and  other  social  services.  They  not  only 
provide  productive  employment  opportunities 
to 
marginalized  groups  — 
including  women,  youth, 
persons with disabilities, older persons and indigenous 
peoples  —  but  also  make  a  valuable  contribution 
through  the  technical  assistance  programmes  of  their 
human resources development component. 

The  critical  role  played  by  cooperatives  in  the 
sphere  of  global  peace  and  security,  particularly  in 
user-owned 
enterprises 
providing 
business 
without 
are 
in 

and 
improve 
statistics 
Together, 
important 
the  globe, 
than  ever,  given 
peacebuilding, has helped to rebuild post-conflict areas 
through  the  prompt  provision  of  essential  financial 
services.  Through  their  networks  and  federations, 
cooperatives  have  provided  critical  opportunities  for 
people  to  connect  and  to  work  together  to  meet 
common  goals.  Moreover,  cooperatives  provide 
developing  countries  with  opportunities  to  promote 
their  exports  and  receive  fair  returns  by  strengthening 
linkages  with  cooperative 
international  business 
networks. 

In today’s global economic climate, cooperatives 
are  more 
their  vital 
contribution to the achievement of global and national 
development  goals.  Cooperatives  therefore  deserve 
more  support  and  encouragement.  It  is  imperative  for 
Member  States  and  their  partners  to  ensure  that  the 
appropriate legal and enabling environment is in place 
for cooperatives to thrive in their respective countries. 
We need to strengthen the linkages among cooperatives 
across 
the 
dissemination  of  information  and  enhance  our  support 
to technical assistance within cooperative movements. 

in  partnership  with  Governments, 
cooperatives, civil society organizations and the United 
Nations system, let us commit to promoting sustainable 
development  and  global  prosperity,  including,  inter 
alia, by strengthening cooperatives. 

I  designated 
sustainable  development  and  global  prosperity  as  one 
of my key pillars for the current session. I look forward 
to working with all Members to make progress on that 
issue  as  a  means  to  ensure  a  brighter  future  for  all.  I 
look forward to a productive discussion.  
(spoke in English) 

General, Her Excellency Ms. Asha-Rose Migiro. 
The  Deputy  Secretary-General:  Today,  we 

launch  the  International  Year  of  Cooperatives.  We  do 
this as the world is witnessing growing discontent over 
the  ongoing  effects  of  the  financial  and  economic 
crisis. Increasingly, we see demands for change in the 
ways we live and work. Increasingly,  we see the need 
for choices and values that are sustainable, responsible 
and inclusive. 

In  confronting  those  challenges,  we  can  draw 
strength  from  the  cooperative  spirit.  The  cooperative 
movement balances both economic viability and social 
I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  Deputy  Secretary-
the  Assembly 
is  aware, 
As 
2 

11-57174 
One 
of 
those 
A 
make 
values 
is 
value 
is 
raise 
public 
Another 
awareness 
cooperative 
cooperatives 
Cooperatives 
environment, 
their  formation  and 
to 
to  promote 


responsibility. 
enormous 
contributions,  not  only  to  their  members,  but  also  to 
their  communities  and  societies.  They  help  to  reduce 
poverty  and  create  jobs.  They  promote  food  security 
and  inclusive  finance.  They  empower  youth,  women, 
older persons, persons with disabilities and indigenous 
peoples. Hence, they serve as a significant social safety 
net.  
The  International  Year  of  Cooperatives  is  an 

about 
opportunity 
cooperatives, 
to 
encourage Governments to establish policies conducive 
to their growth. Just as important, it offers a chance to 
underscore the importance of cooperative values. 

sustainability. 
Cooperatives focus on the long-term. Through their use 
of local labour and capital, as well as their respect for 
the 
strengthen 
local 
economies while creating a sustainable future.  

solidarity. 
Cooperatives  typically  enjoy  a  strong  community 
connection  and  hold  themselves  accountable  to  more 
than solely their members or clients. For cooperatives, 
the  well-being  of  the  broader  community  is  as  crucial 
as the well-being of its members. 

is 
inclusiveness. As  self-help  organizations,  cooperatives 
are  inherently  people-centred.  They  meet  not  only 
material  needs  but  also  the  human  need  to  participate 
proactively  in  improving  one’s  life.  Moreover,  with 
democratic  decision-making  processes  and  a  focus  on 
cultivating  member  skills  and  capacities,  cooperatives 
offer a model for harnessing the energies and passions 
of all. 

The International Year of Cooperatives coincides 
with  the  observance  of  the  International  Year  of 
Sustainable Energy for All and with the United Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development,  to  be  held 
next June. Let us make the most of this confluence of 
events.  Cooperatives  present  us  with  values  and 
structures  that  are  ideally  suited  for  addressing  the 
challenges we face. We must leverage these advantages 
not  only  to  produce  better  businesses  but  to  advance 
the  broader  imperative  of  sustainable  development.  In 
that  way,  we  can  live  up  to  the  Year’s  theme, 
“Cooperative enterprises build a better world”. 
third  signature  value  of  cooperatives 
A/66/PV.45
from 
The  President:  I  thank  the  Deputy  Secretary-

General for her statement.  

In accordance with resolution 65/184, I now give 
the 
floor 
to  Dame  Pauline  Green,  cooperative 
representative, to present the outcome statement of this 
morning’s informal round table. 
to 

the  cooperative 
welcome  my  colleagues 
movement  who  have  come  from  all  around 
the 
world — indeed from 52 countries — to be here on this 
important day for our movement.  

Dame  Pauline  Green:  Please  allow  me 
“Cooperatives are a reminder to the international 
community  that  it  is  possible  to  pursue  both 
economic viability and social responsibility.”  
those  few 
the  words,  Secretary-General  Ban 
In 
Ki-moon  encapsulated 
the  cooperative  model  of 
business  and  the  capacity  it  has,  in  the  words  of  the 
United  Nations  slogan  for  this  International  Year,  to 
build a better world.  

A  background  paper  for  the  1995  Copenhagen 
World  Summit  for  Social  Development  stated  that 
“cooperatives  contribute  directly 
the 
standards  of  living  of  half  the  world’s  population”. 
Those are words built upon facts. They reflect the fact 
that  for  nearly  200  years,  cooperatives  have  been 
creating  jobs  across  the  world.  Currently  more  than 
100 million of the world’s citizens are employed within 
a  cooperative.  They  reflect  the  fact  that,  since  their 
inception,  cooperatives  have  not  sought  to  ape  their 
corporate  competitors  and  maximize  their  profits,  but 
rather to meet the needs of their member-owners.  

It  is  no  wonder  then  that  today  the  cooperative 
movement  is  owned  by  nearly  1  billion  people  across 
the  globe.  That  number 
that 
cooperatives  have  been  a  powerful  player 
in 
embedding  civil  society  across  the  world  through  the 
powerful  medium  of  the  creation  of  member-owned 
businesses. Those are businesses built on the principles 
of  sound  democracy,  a  commitment  to  an  economic 
return  to  members  on  their  trade  with  the  cooperative 
rather than the size of their share-holding and a model 
whereby businesses have a wider social engagement as 
a core part of their DNA.  

For nearly two centuries we have been helping to 
reduce conflict, build community cohesion, build skills 
and  expertise,  develop  local  leadership  potential  and 
support  women  in  positions  of  economic  activity  and 
improve 
reflects 
fact 
the 
to 
11-57174 

3 

it 
in 
in 
is  a  business  model 
the  world  —  banking, 
their  communities.  All  of 
A/66/PV.45 

leadership 
those 
achievements have been developed with the intellectual 
underpinning  of  the  value  of  collective  endeavour  in 
sustainable, member-owned local enterprises.  

In effect, cooperatives have taken millions out of 
poverty  with  dignity,  by  helping  them  to  build  their 
own  cooperative  enterprises.  Our  commitment  to  our 
democratic  and  social  agenda  is  built  on  a  sound  and 
successful  member-owned  business  model.  What  is 
more, 
that  can  compete 
successfully  in  the  marketplace  with  other  forms  of 
business, and thrive.  

Today,  as  the  General  Assembly  launches  the 
International  Year  of  Cooperatives,  the  International 
Cooperative  Alliance  publishes  its  Global  300  —  the 
list  of  the  largest  300  of  our  many  hundreds  of 
thousands  of  cooperatives  across  the  world.  Together, 
those  300  cooperatives  are  worth  $1.6 
trillion, 
equivalent  to  the  ninth-largest  economy  in  the  world, 
and  they  operate  in  some  of  the  most  competitive 
industries 
insurance, 
agriculture,  retail,  health,  utilities  and  others.  The 
300 list 
from  25  different 
countries.  

Our challenge is to make sure that more people in 
decisions-making  positions,  or  those  who  exercise 
influence  in  the  political  or  economic  spheres,  or 
indeed  in  the  media,  know  about  the  size,  scope  and 
scale  of  the  cooperative  sector  of  the  economy,  the 
work  it  does  to  sustain  and  build  communities  across 
the  world  and  its  capacity  to  do  so  much  more.  That 
was  one  of  the  first  messages  coming  this  morning 
from  the  round  table  that  was  held  here  in  this 
building.  
The collapse of the financial sector of the global 

economy  has  had  tragic  results  for  families  and 
communities  in  many  parts  of  the  developed  world  in 
particular. It is well documented now, not least by the 
International  Labour  Organization,  that  there  is  one 
part of the financial sector that has continued to grow 
its  asset  base  over  the  past  four  years,  where  account 
holders  and  deposits  have  grown  and  which  has 
continued  to  lend  and  indeed  grown  its  lending  to 
families  and  businesses  —  the  cooperative  financial 
institutions, of course.  

Cooperatives  are  people-based  businesses  and, 
unlike their competitors, are not constitutionally bound 
to  work  to  maximize  profits  for  their  shareholders. 
includes  cooperatives 
the 
retail, 
table  on 
insurance 
the  earliest 
the  speakers  at  round 
is  one  of 
banking, 
That  point  was  made  very  strongly  here  this  morning 
by 
theme 
“Cooperative  enterprises  build  a  better  world: 
contributions to sustainable development”. Each of the 
contributors  made  a  compelling  case  that  the  success, 
longevity and growth of their cooperative depend on a 
strong  and  abiding  relationship  with  their  member-
owners,  and  on  their  trust  and  confidence  in  the 
priorities of the business that they own, in which they 
can play a significant role and in which, together, they 
are  the  key  stakeholder. That  is  the  same  whether  the 
cooperative 
forms  of 
cooperatives — 
or 
agriculture — or whether it is one of the leading-edge, 
radical new community coops in the developed world, 
or  a  crucial  small-village  savings  and  credit  coop  in 
Africa.  

What was  also significant  from the speakers this 
morning  was  the  way  in  which  they  had  a  common 
case to make, from Mondragón in the Basque country 
of Spain, to Rabobank in the Netherlands, to the supply 
and  marketing  cooperatives  in  China.  Each  of  them 
showed  that  regardless  of  size,  each  has  a  clear  and 
continuing  commitment  to  international  development 
and  is  actively  engaged  in  what  they  consider  one  of 
the commitments that comes with being a cooperative.  

That  work,  however,  would  be  much  easier  — 
and much more productive — if the cooperative model 
of  business  were  taken  more  seriously  and  if  al 
contributors  used  their  own  experience  to  make  the 
case  for 
three  key  points.  First,  member-owned 
cooperatives  are  a  serious  business  model,  with  scale. 
Cooperatives are therefore asking that the specific and 
unique legal and financial framework of a cooperative 
be fully acknowledged and recognized in public policy 
and regulation.  

are 
values-led  businesses.  Our  values  are  integral  to  our 
business model, not just a marketing tool in the shape 
of a corporate social responsibility report once a year. 
They define our identity and our brand; they are part of 
our DNA. Cooperatives are asking that their model of 
business  be  given  equal  promotion  with 
the 
stockholder model. 

Thirdly, our governance model is people-led. At a 
time  when  people  —  especially  young  people,  whom 
this recession is hitting so cruelly — are cynical about 
the  political  and  economic  models  that  dominate  their 
Secondly,  member-owned 
cooperatives 
4 

11-57174 


lives,  when  they  are  looking  for  a  voice,  in  North 
Africa,  the  Middle  East,  Wall  Street  and  across  the 
world,  and  when  they  are  looking  for  impact,  the 
cooperative is not only an effective governance model, 
it is a compelling one. And cooperatives are asking that 
there  should  be  greater  diversification  of  the  global 
economy  to  ensure  a  level  playing  field  for  the 
member-owned model of business. 

Let me conclude by saying that our movement — 
because that is what it is, a movement — is conscious 
of  the  great  gift  that  the  United  Nations  has  given  us 
with  this  International Year:  a  gift  that  recognizes  the 
cooperative impact on the socio-economic development of 
the  world,  and  its  capacity  to  do  so  much  more.  We 
wish  to  put  on  record  our  particular  thanks  to  the 
Government  of  Mongolia,  which  put  the  original 
proposal  for  the  Year  on  the  agenda,  and  to  the 
unprecedentedly large number of Governments that put 
their  signature  on  the  resolution  to  give  effect  to  the 
Year. 

It  is  an  honour  and  a  privilege  for  me  to  ascend 
the rostrum in this iconic Chamber. I am proud to do so 
in  the  name  of  the  1  billion  cooperators  across  the 
world.  I  pay  tribute  to  the  great  work  that  they  do 
across  the  world  to  make  it  a  better  place.  Together, 
cooperatives will work to make the International Year a 
powerful restatement of the cooperative ideal. It is our 
aim  that,  on  31  December  2012,  we  will  be  able  to 
pivot 
International  Year  of 
Cooperatives to a decade of cooperative growth. 

The  President:  As  indicated  in  my  letter  of 
21 October,  an 
to 
Mr. Gordon  Brown,  former  Prime  Minister  of  the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland, 
to  make  a  statement  at  this  meeting.  If  there  is  no 
objection,  I  shall  take  it  that  the  Assembly  agrees  to 
hear the statement by Mr. Brown. 
It was so decided. 

The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency Mr. Gordon Brown, former Prime Minister 
of  the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern 
Ireland. 

Mr. Brown: First of all, let me say that I want to 
speak  up  for  the  100  million  employees  of  the 
cooperative movement, represented by 300 representatives 
here  today  from  52  countries.  I  would  like  to  thank 
them  for  showing 
the  principles  of  human 
invitation  has  been  extended 
successful 
from  a 
that 
A/66/PV.45
in 
this  year  of  cooperation, 
cooperation  can  make  for  a  better  global  economy.  I 
also want to speak out today on behalf of the 1 billion 
members  of  cooperatives  worldwide,  all  of  them 
affiliated  with  the  International  Cooperative  Alliance, 
and to thank them for living their lives in the spirit of 
cooperation and public service. 

I  also  want  to  stand  up  today  for  the  half  of  the 
world’s  population  who,  either  in  buying  from  a 
cooperative  or  as  part  of  a  mutual  association,  know 
that  the  principles  of  cooperation  —  less  poverty  and 
greater  equality  —  make  for  a  better  society  in  every 
part of the world. For literally billions of us are part of 
a  movement  across  the  generations  of  people  who, 
however distantly, feel the pain of others. We are part 
of  a  movement  of  men  and  women  who  believe  in 
something  bigger  than  just  ourselves.  We  are  part  of 
families  and  communities  who  believe  in  something 
quite monumental: that when the strong help the weak, 
it  makes  us  all  stronger.  Let  us  therefore  remember 
today, 
that  our 
interdependence,  our  mutual  dependence  on  each 
another,  is  an  ever-increasing  fact  of  our  lives.  As 
Martin Luther King, Jr. — who is now commemorated 
in  the  pantheon  of  Washington,  D.C.  —  said  that  we 
are part of an inescapable network of mutuality. 

I remember the poetry that says it is the hands of 
others who grow the food we eat, who sew the clothes 
we  wear,  who  build  the  houses  we  inhabit.  It  is  the 
hands of others who tend us when we are sick and who 
lift  us  up  when  we  fall.  It  is  the  hands  of  others  who 
bring  us  into  this  world  and  who  lower  us  into  the 
grave.  We  are  finding  today  that  not  only  are  we 
mutually dependent on one another for our survival and 
subsistence  and  success,  but  that  there  are  global 
problems — not just common or shared problems that 
can be dealt with by bilateral or trilateral or Group of 
Seven action, but global problems: problems of climate 
change,  of  financial  stability,  pandemics,  problems  of 
security needed against terrorism, of inequality that can 
never  be  resolved  unless  there  is  cooperation  between 
nations. 

As  this  generation  has  found,  if  interdependence 
forces us  to cooperate  as  a fact of life, then acting on 
that interdependence, which summons us to cooperate, 
is part of the moral sense of almost every individual we 
meet. We do more than to cooperate out of need. There 
is a human need to cooperate. Is it not the case that we 
cannot  be  truly  happy  when  others  are  sad,  that  we 
cannot truly feast when others famish? Is it not the case 
11-57174 

5 

A/66/PV.45 

that  we  cannot  truly  be  contented  or  complete  as 
individuals  when  the  lives  of  millions  of  other  people 
are incomplete and full of discontent? 

So  I  say  that  in  this  International  Year  of 
Cooperatives  that  we  must  do  more  than  simply  talk 
about  our  interdependence.  We  must  talk  more  than 
simply about the moral sense that cooperation is good. 
We  should  from  here,  at  this  United  Nations  meeting 
today, in this year of cooperation, listen to those voices 
of discontent, the 200 million people around the world 
who  are  unemployed,  the  80  million  young  people 
without  hope  that  they  can  ever  find  a  job,  the 
1.4 billion  people  who  today  still  live  in  absolute 
poverty. We should listen to these voices and set out a 
cooperative  vision  for  the  future.  It  is  not  anti-wealth 
to  say  that  wealth  must  do  more  than  serve  only  the 
needs of the wealthy. It is not anti-enterprise to say that 
the  purpose  of  enterprise  is  to  support  more  than  just 
the  entrepreneur. And  it  is  not  anti-competition  to  say 
that  without  cooperation,  competition  may  not  lift  us 
up but may pull us down. 

Let  me  say  to  the Assembly  that  nothing  would 
do more to show the principles of cooperation in action 
than if the world would come together to make a new 
commitment that by 2015 we will do everything in our 
power  to  meet  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
Nothing would send a bigger signal about our ability to 
come together for a common purpose than if we say we 
will  achieve  one  by  one  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. 

Today  I  want  specifically  to  talk  about  the 
importance  of  meeting 
the  education  Millennium 
Development  Goal  by  2015.  It  is  a  principle  of  the 
cooperative  movement  that  everyone  should  have  the 
chance  of  education  and  training.  But  today  there  are 
70  million  children  not  going  to  school;  70  million 
children denied the most basic of opportunities. I have 
met  children  who  beg  for  the  chance  to  get  to  school 
when it is denied them because of the failure to provide 
teachers, classrooms and the technology they need. So 
as part of the International Year of Cooperatives, let us 
make  this  year  work  for  the  children  of  the  world  by 
training  teachers,  building  schools  and  delivering  the 
technology  that  is  needed  to  provide  education  in  all 
parts of the world — so that we can genuinely say that 
we will be the first generation in history to achieve the 
right  of  every  single  child  in  the  world  to  have  the 
chance of education at school. 

Now, in this year of cooperation, let us remember 
some  of  the  great  statements  that  have  been  made  in 
support of cooperation over the decades. A few months 
ago  I  was  asked  by  Harvard  University  to  record,  as 
part of a project, one of the great phrases from a speech 
by  John  F.  Kennedy,  his  inaugural  address  to  the 
American  people  in  1961.  They  asked  people  from 
every  part  of  the  world  to  contribute  a  recording  of  a 
sentence  from  that  speech,  so  that  they  could  make  a 
compilation of his remarks during his famous inaugural 
address  that  could  be  sent  around  the  world  in 
remembrance  of  his  historic  words.  Some  Assembly 
Members  will  know  those  great  words,  because  they 
are relevant to what we are talking about today.  

“The torch has been passed to a new generation” 
and,  yes,  there  is  a  new  generation  of  cooperators 
emerging,  as  the  cooperative  movement  goes  from 
strength  to  strength.  “Ask  not  what  your  country  can 
do for you — ask what you can do for your country” is 
the  call  to  public  service  that  lies  at  the  heart  of  the 
cooperative  movement.  “Let us  never  negotiate out  of 
fear. But let us never fear to negotiate.” That is the call 
to  seek  cooperation  where  possible  and  never  to  seek 
confrontation for its own sake. If a free society cannot 
help  the  many  who  are  poor,  it  cannot  save  the  few 
who are rich.” That is a call for cooperation to ensure 
that  our  environmental  resources  and  income  and 
wealth are shared fairly around the world. 

It  is  said  that  Richard  Nixon,  who  was  the 
defeated  presidential  candidate  in  1961,  was  asked 
which of the words from Kennedy’s inaugural address 
he  would  have  liked  to  have  read  out.  He  said  that 
there was only one phrase: “I do solemnly swear that I 
will  faithfully  execute  the  office  of  President  of  the 
United  States  of America”.  However,  the  words  that  I 
was  asked  to  read,  which  I  want  to  repeat  to  the 
Assembly  today,  were  “Let  both  sides  explore  what 
problems unite us instead of belaboring those problems 
which  divide  us.”  We  have  it  in  our  mortal  hands  to 
abolish poverty, disease, hunger, illiteracy and conflict.  
Kennedy later went on to Philadelphia, where he 

declared 
if  1776  had  brought  America  a 
declaration  of  independence,  it  was  now  time  for  a 
declaration  of  interdependence.  That  is,  I  think,  our 
destiny — an interdependent world ready to challenge 
the  global  problems 
to 
cooperate  for  common  purposes.  That  is  why  this 
International Year of Cooperatives is important. That is 
that  exist  and  prepared 
that, 
6 

11-57174 
life 
a  higher  quality  of 


why  so  many  people  around  the  world  will  celebrate 
the principles of cooperation.  

That  is  why,  as  Dame  Pauline  Green  said  so 
eloquently,  we  must  now  move  on  from  a  year  of 
cooperation to declare a decade of cooperation, where 
people  around  the  world  will  benefit  from  jobs,  relief 
from  poverty, 
and 
environmental sustainability as a result of not only the 
efforts  and  endeavours,  but  also  the  ambitions  and 
ideals, of cooperators everywhere. 
The President: I thank the former Prime Minister 

of  the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern 
Ireland for his statement. 
Mr.  Bayarmagnai  (Mongolia):  On  behalf  of  the 

Government  of  Mongolia,  it  is  a  great  honour  and 
privilege to address the General Assembly at its sixty-
sixth  session  in  the  plenary  meeting  on  the  launching 
of the 2012 International Year of Cooperatives. I wish 
to  extend  my  delegation’s  warmest  greetings  to  all 
participants in this important gathering. 

is  particularly 
The  delegation  of  Mongolia 
pleased  to  highlight  the  fact  that  the  launching  of  the 
International  Year  of  Cooperatives  coincides  with  the 
celebrations  of  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  Mongolia’s 
membership in the United Nations. 

Cooperatives,  as  economic  enterprises  and  as 
autonomous self-help organizations, play an important 
role  in  fostering  inclusive  and  sustainable  economic 
poverty 
and 
development, 
reduction, 
employment  generation  and 
food  security.  They 
represent a model of economic enterprise which, when 
effectively  implemented,  promotes  democratic  and 
human values and environmental sustainability. 
Cooperatives also promote social integration and 

cohesion, as they are a means of empowering the poor 
and  marginalized  groups.  The  cooperative  sector, 
especially 
to 
efforts  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
by  2015.  In  recognition  of 
the  contribution  of 
development 
cooperatives 
throughout 
further  strengthen 
cooperatives  worldwide,  the  United  Nations  declared 
2012 as the International Year of Cooperatives. 

Since  its  accession  to  the  United  Nations  as  a 
full-fledged Member State 50 years ago, Mongolia has 
been endeavouring to contribute to the common efforts 
of  the  international  community  by  introducing  a 
in  developing  countries,  contributes 
the  world  and 
socio-economic 
social 
to 
to 
the 
the 
A/66/PV.45
in 
and 
growth 
cooperatives 
establishment 
including  on 
theme  “Cooperatives 
number  of  United  Nations  resolutions  on  important 
subjects, 
social 
development. 
The  International  Year  of  Cooperatives  seeks  to 

encourage 
of 
cooperatives  world-wide.  Strengthening  cooperatives 
requires long-term efforts. Hence, the development of a 
road map or plan of action has been proposed to ensure 
the  continued  promotion  of  cooperatives  and  effective 
follow-up  to  the  activities  envisaged  beyond  the 
International Year of Cooperatives. 
To help achieve those objectives, an expert group 

meeting  on 
in  social 
development:  beyond  2012”  was  held  in  Ulaanbaatar 
from 3 to 6 May. The meeting was organized jointly by 
the  Government  of  Mongolia,  represented  by  the 
Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Trade and the Ministry 
of Food, Agriculture and Light Industry, and the United 
Nations, represented by the Division for Social Policy 
and Development of the Department of Economic and 
Social Affairs. Participants in the expert group meeting 
discussed  the  programme  of  activities  for  the  2012 
International  Year  of  Cooperatives  and  inputs  for  a 
draft plan of action beyond 2012. 

In line with resolution 65/184 on cooperatives in 
social  development,  which  invited  Member  States  to 
consider  taking  action  towards  establishing  national 
mechanisms,  such  as  national  committees,  to  prepare 
for, observe and follow up on the International Year of 
Cooperatives,  the  Government  of  Mongolia,  by  its 
resolution 112 of April 2011, has established a national 
committee  to  prepare  for  the  International  Year  of 
Cooperatives. The Committee is chaired by the Deputy 
the  relevant 
Prime  Minister  and  represented  by 
ministries 
representatives  of 
cooperatives.  The  national  committee  has  approved  a 
plan  of  action  to  observe  the  International  Year  of 
Cooperatives.  The  plan  envisages  implementing  a 
broad  range  of  activities  aimed  at  raising  public 
awareness about cooperatives and their contribution to 
socio-economic development; promoting the formation 
and  growth  of  cooperatives;  establishing  a 
legal 
environment  conducive  to  the  formation,  growth  and 
stability of cooperatives; organizing a campaign under 
two  brands”  and 
the  slogan  “One  province  — 
exhibitions  with 
broad 
involvement 
of 
cooperatives;  and  strengthening  cooperation  with  the 
International  Cooperative  Alliance  through  project 
implementation. 
as  well 
the 
as 
the 
11-57174 

7 
to 
for 
the 
the  1920s.  However, 
A/66/PV.45 

The  history  of  the  cooperative  movement  in 

Mongolia  dates  back 
it 
underwent  a  profound  transformation  in  the  1990s, 
when  Mongolia  began  its  transition  to  a  market 
economy. 

The adoption of the Cooperative Law in 1998 and 
the National Programme for Cooperative Development, 
one  year  later,  played  a  crucial  role  in  creating  a 
favourable  environment 
formation  and 
development  of  cooperatives.  Mongolian  cooperatives 
today  represent  the  autonomous  association  of  people 
united  voluntarily  to  meet  their  common  needs  and 
aspirations  through  jointly  owned  and  democratically 
controlled  enterprises.  They  play  an  important  role  in 
socio-economic development by creating jobs and thus 
alleviating poverty. They have grown in number and in 
the  services  they  provide.  There  are  currently  2400 
cooperatives  successfully  operating  in  such  varied 
areas  as  the  processing  of  raw  materials,  production, 
savings  and  credit,  sale,  supply  and  procurement, 
service, and housing construction. 

Mongolia’s  economic  growth  and  sustainable 
development,  including  food  security,  depend  heavily 
on the agricultural sector. Special attention is therefore 
accorded 
agricultural 
cooperatives. More than 37 per cent of our population 
lives  in  rural  areas  and  most  are  engaged  in  animal 
husbandry. Agricultural cooperatives play an important 
role  in  supporting  small  agricultural  producers  and 
marginalized groups such as young people and women. 
In  that  context,  we  welcome  the  initiative  of  the 
International  Co-operative  Alliance  to  celebrate  the 
International Day of Cooperatives 2011 with the theme 
“Youth: the future of cooperative enterprise”. 

express  my 
Government’s  strong  support  for  the  development  of 
cooperatives world-wide.  
Mr.  McLay  (New  Zealand):  New  Zealand  joins 

you,  Mr.  President,  in  expressing  its  condolences  on 
the  death  of  the  Crown  Prince  of  Saudi  Arabia.  Our 
sympathy goes to the royal family, to the Government 
and to the people of Saudi Arabia.  
the 

International  Year  of  Cooperatives  and  supports  the 
aim  of  promoting  cooperatives  and  raising  awareness 
of 
social  and  economic 
development. 
New  Zealand  welcomes 
their  contribution 
development 
conclusion, 
launch  of 
I  wish 
the 
the 
of 
In 
to 


Compared  with  other  countries,  cooperatives 
serve  a  relatively  large  part  of  the  New  Zealand 
economy.  Cooperatives  operate 
in  many  of  our 
business  sectors,  most  notably  in  agriculture,  but  also 
in  areas  such  as  banking,  financial  services  and 
retailing. 

The earliest record of a New Zealand cooperative 
dates  back  to  1871,  with  the  formation  of  the  Otago 
Cooperative Cheese Company. Just eight dairy farmers 
purchased  shares  based  on  the  quantity  of  milk  they 
would  supply  to  the  cooperative,  with  each  share 
having a value of £1, and representing the supply of ten 
quarts of milk. The  general principles  adopted by that 
cooperative were typical of those that have prevailed in 
cooperative  societies  and  companies  through  to  the 
present  time.  According  to  the  Bloomberg  business 
news service, New Zealand’s largest business, Fonterra 
Cooperative  Group  Limited,  is  “the  world’s  largest 
dairy exporter” and “accounts for about 40 per cent of 
the  global  trade  in  butter,  milk  powder  and  cheese, 
selling  products  in  140  countries”.  That,  to  quote 
International  Co-operative  Alliance  President  Dame 
Pauline  Green,  is  “a  serious  business  model  with 
scale”. 

The  scale  and  diversity  of  New  Zealand’s 
cooperative  sector  means  that  cooperatives  play  a  key 
role 
the 
Government’s economic objectives. 

The  values  on  which  cooperatives  are  based,  as 
expressed  by  the  International  Co-operative  Alliance, 
are  those  of  self-help,  self-responsibility,  democracy, 
equality,  equity  and  solidarity.  Those  values  are 
demonstrated 
cooperative 
businesses,  with 
to  social  and 
environmental  goals.  Cooperatives  have  played  a 
significant  role  in  the  development  of  New  Zealand 
communities, promoting qualities of independence and 
cooperation, and responding well to the needs of their 
communities. 
importance  of 

providing 
the 
establishment  and  operation  of  cooperatives.  A  legal 
framework 
the  establishment  and 
operation  of  cooperatives  has  existed  for  well  over  a 
century  and  is,  at  present,  largely  embodied  in  the 
Industrial and Provident Societies Act of 1908 and the 
Co-operative  Companies Act  of  1996. That  legislation 
contains special features relating to shareholdings that 
New  Zealand  recognizes 
the  achievement  of 
their  commitment 
in  contributing 
that  facilitates 
environment 
in  New 
Zealand’s 
enabling 
the 
for 
an 
to 
to 
to 
8 

11-57174 
to 
that, 
under 
the 
recognizes 


facilitate the conduct of business on a mutual basis and 
encourage continuous active participation by members 
of  the  cooperative. That  legal  framework  provides  the 
flexibility needed for cooperative enterprises to prosper 
and establishes structures  that respond to the needs of 
cooperative members. 

Mr.  Zinsou  (Benin),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
Relevant  Government  websites 

promote 
awareness of the cooperative form and offer advice on 
how  to  register  as  a  cooperative,  thus  enabling  those 
who  search  online  for  information  regarding  New 
Zealand’s regulatory requirements to consider whether 
the  cooperative  business  model  is  appropriate  to  their 
particular circumstances. 
Internationally,  New  Zealand’s  Aid  Programme 

also 
appropriate 
circumstances, cooperatives in their various forms can 
promote  economic  and  social  development  and 
contribute 
the  eradication  of  poverty.  The 
Programme  works  with  and  accommodates  different 
types  of  cooperative  as  found  in  different  countries, 
including  the  association  of  pearl  businesses  in  the 
Cook Islands and tourism associations in Samoa. New 
Zealand will play its part during the International Year 
of  Cooperatives,  with  the  New  Zealand  Cooperatives 
Association coordinating the New Zealand programme. 
Our  planned 
includes  a  cooperative 
research  conference  in  June  2012,  focused  on  the 
development 
for 
professionals,  such  as  lawyers  and  accountants,  along 
with other public events. 

the 
International  Year  of  Cooperatives,  the  Government 
has  agreed  to  fund  a  statistical  project  that  aims  to 
estimate 
the  contribution  made  by  New  Zealand 
cooperatives  to  the  country’s  gross  domestic  product 
and employment. The resulting statistics will provide a 
basis  for  measuring  the  extent  of  cooperative  activity, 
and  will  provide  better  information  for  future  policy 
development. 
Mr. Mikkonen (Finland): It is an honour for me 

to  address  this  meeting  as  a  representative  of  Finland 
and Chairman of the Finnish Cooperative Council. The 
cooperative  organizations  in  Finland  welcome  the 
United  Nations 
the 
International  Year  of  Cooperatives.  We  believe  that 
reduction, 
cooperatives 
Also,  as  part  of 
to  declare  2012 
its  contribution 
involvement 
programmes 
education 
of 
to 
initiative 
can 
impact 
poverty 
A/66/PV.45
and 
social 
the  cooperative  model 
employment  generation 
integration. 
Cooperatives  bring  many  benefits  to  society.  Farmers 
can gain better access to markets by working together 
in  cooperatives,  consumers  can  buy  their  goods  more 
cheaply  in  their  own  cooperative  stores,  and  micro-
credits  given  by  local  cooperatives  can  revive  local 
economies. 

Cooperation  as  a  business  model  and  enterprise 
form has proved to be successful in several developed 
countries,  and  Finland  is  often  considered  to  be  the 
most cooperative country in the world. Almost half of 
all  daily  goods  are  bought  from  cooperative  stores; 
more  than  one  third  of  all  deposits  are  in  cooperative 
banks;  and  the  Finnish  agricultural  cooperatives  have 
high  shares  of  the  Nordic  market.  For  instance,  more 
than  95  per  cent  of  the  milk  produced  in  Finland  is 
delivered  to  cooperative  dairies. About  80  per  cent  of 
the adult population are members of cooperatives. 

However,  even  in  Finland,  a  very  cooperative 
country, 
is  still  relatively 
unknown among the public. We are  working tirelessly 
to  make  the  cooperative  model  better  known,  and  we 
have  also  achieved  many  good  results  throughout  the 
years. 
Today cooperatives are used as a tool for training 

in 
entrepreneurship 
colleges.  This 
educational  programme,  where  students  form,  run  and 
develop  cooperatives  for  the  marketing  of  their  skills, 
has  proved  very  successful.  The  programme  has  also 
been  exported  to  colleges  and  universities  in  several 
other European countries. 
In  Finland,  the  cooperative  business  is  exactly 

that:  business  —  very  pragmatic 
and  very 
non-ideological.  About  20  years  ago,  in  the  early 
1990s, we started a project with the aim of promoting 
the  formation  of  cooperatives  in  Finland.  Finland 
experienced  a  difficult  recession  at  that  time,  and  we 
saw  cooperation  as  a  tool  for  solving  many  of  the 
resulting  problems.  Forming  cooperatives  could 
provide services that municipalities have cut down on. 
Cooperation  could  be  a  tool  for  self-employment  for 
the  jobless  and  offer  the  possibility  of  developing  the 
whole third sector area. The number of cooperatives in 
Finland has quadrupled since 1990. 

to  conclude  by  once  again 
emphasizing  the  potential  value  of  the  cooperative 
model 
in  bringing  about  social  and  economic 
development in societies. Cooperatives can play a key 
in  Finnish 
I  would 
like 
11-57174 

9 
community. 
to  mark  2012  as 
As  we  gather  here 
A/66/PV.45 

role  in  fighting  poverty,  creating  employment  and 
enhancing social integration. 
Mr. Sinah (India): I am thankful to you, Sir, for 

giving  me  this  opportunity  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. It is indeed an honour for me. 

the 
International Year of Cooperatives, it is most befitting 
that  the  United  Nations  is  taking  the  lead  in  raising 
awareness  about  cooperatives  as  a  progressive  model 
of  socio-economic  advancement.  Considering  the  role 
that  cooperatives  have  played  the  world  over  in 
bringing  about  social  change,  rural  development  and 
raising  economic  productivity,  this  global  recognition 
is long overdue. 
The  cooperative  model  of  development  has  met 

with  remarkable  success  in  varied  socio-economic 
contexts in both developed and developing nations. Yet 
its  true  potential  as  a  means  of  socio-economic 
organization  remains  to  be  fully  harnessed,  and  the 
model itself to be better understood by the larger global 
development 
in  global 
development  discourse  thus  far  has  been  limited.  In 
fact,  the  internationally  agreed  development  goals, 
including the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), 
have  not 
this  people-centric 
development option. 
They  say  that  in  every  crisis  lies  an  opportunity. 

There  is  a  strengthened  push  for  financial  inclusion, 
promoting social protection and empowering small and 
medium  enterprises  and  marginal  farmers  to  act  as 
levers  against  economic  shocks.  This  has  put  forth 
cooperatives as a viable choice for social and economic 
action. We must fully capitalize on the situation. 

India  calls  upon  Member  States,  the  United 
Nations  system,  civil  society  and  the  private  sector  to 
strongly  advocate  for  the  cooperative  movement. This 
would  be  most  timely,  as  the  global  community 
prepares  to  renew  its  commitment  to  sustainable 
development  next  year  at 
the  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20). 

the  cooperative 
structure, based on popular participation and a bottom-
up  approach,  makes  it  an  ideal  platform  for  local 
action.  Cooperatives  have  contributed  significantly  to 
ensuring economic productivity and rural development; 
promoting social empowerment and cohesion; opening 
marketing  channels  for  village  and  artisanal  produce; 
The  decentralized  nature  of 
really 
focused  on 
Its 
space 

empowerment 
growth,  women’s 
and  providing  credit  and  input  support  to  farmers, 
consumers and workers. Their catalytic role in national 
advancement, 
in  both  developed  and  developing 
countries, has been well recognized. 

India’s  experience  with  cooperatives  has  been 
singularly successful. This has been duly noted by the 
Secretary-General  in  his  report.  Given  that  almost 
70 per cent of our people are dependent on agriculture, 
it  is  natural  for  our  cooperative  movement  to  have  an 
agricultural  bias,  both 
in  credit  and  non-credit 
segments. Our national priority for poverty eradication, 
inclusive 
and 
promoting  self-reliance  underpins  the  fundamentals  of 
the  Indian  cooperative  movement.  In  the  process,  we 
have  constantly  drawn  inspiration  from  the  father  of 
our  nation,  Mahatma  Gandhi,  who  desired  to  see 
village societies and cooperative farming at the centre 
of his idea of Gram Swaraj, or rural independence. 

A unique feature of the cooperative movement in 
India is that the State has played an active role in it. We 
believe that such responsibilities are part of those of a 
developing  State,  especially  in  the  early  years  of  its 
existence.  With  the  cooperative  movement  having 
gathered  strength  of  its  own,  the  Government  is  now 
largely playing a facilitator’s role. 

Cooperatives  have  been  the  lifeline  of  India’s 
white revolution, or milk production, and have made us 
the  largest  producer  of  milk  in  the  world.  Milk 
cooperatives have been most successful in the dry parts 
of  India,  not  the  most  ideal  setting  for  dairy,  making 
cooperative  action  even  more  noteworthy.  The  milk 
cooperative Anand  Milk  Union  Limited  (AMUL)  is  a 
household  name  in  India,  with  its  products  available 
throughout  the  length  and  breadth  of  the  country. 
Behind  the  AMUL  brand  stands  a  milk  marketing 
federation, a union of 15,712 village milk cooperatives 
comprising 3 million milk producers, with a daily milk 
collection  of  12  million  litres  and  supported  by 
1 million  retailers.  In  our  State  of  Bihar,  the  milk 
cooperative  under  the  brand  name  Sudha  has  made  a 
significant  contribution  to  ensuring  healthy,  nutritious 
and  affordable  food  for  the  people  of  the  great  region 
of Bihar, the land of Lord Gupta.  

Indian  Farmers’  Fertilizer  Cooperative 
Limited, the largest fertilizer-producing cooperative in 
Asia, is another stellar example of cooperative success 
in India. It has a membership base of more than 39,000 
agricultural cooperatives throughout the country. It has 
The 
10 

11-57174 


recently  diversified  to  include  insurance,  information 
technology services and other developmental activities 
in  rural  areas,  establishing  new  networks  of  group 
action to empower people. 

There  are  a  large  number  of  other  such  success 
stories  from  the  cooperative  sector  in  India.  Our 
cooperatives have shown impressive results in banking, 
sugar-cane  farming,  urban  housing,  fishery,  poultry, 
home-based  economic  activities,  the  marketing  of 
village produce and social welfare. India’s cooperative 
action  in  providing  affordable  housing  in  the  urban 
areas  has  been  instrumental  in  making  progress  on 
slum development, an MDG commitment. 

Given  India’s  success  in  cooperatives,  we  have 
taken  steps  to  integrate  them  fully  into  our  planning 
and  development  process.  We  have  established  the 
National Cooperative Union of India, an apex body to 
guide  and  strengthen  the  movement.  To  support  its 
growth  and  professional  needs,  we  have  established  a 
network of cooperative management institutes. In order 
to  improve  the  functioning  of  cooperatives,  we  are 
placing greater emphasis on consolidation and internal 
resource mobilization, meeting their training needs and 
reorienting the role of Government as a facilitator. 

We  live  in  uncertain  times.  New  and  emerging 
challenges  of  food  security,  energy  access,  the  rapid 
pace  of  urbanization,  the  degeneration  of  natural 
resources  and  growing  rural-urban  inequality  require 
enhanced  collective  action.  We  are  compelled  to  do 
more  with  fewer  resources.  How  do  we  do  it?  One  of 
the  answers  lies  in  the  cooperative  movement.  Let  us 
do our best to protect, project and promote it. 
Mr. De Antueno (Argentina) (spoke in Spanish): 

For  Argentina,  the  promotion  of  cooperatives  and  an 
interdependent  economy  is  a  State  policy.  It  thus 
fosters 
in  which 
inclusion  and  social  integration  are  the  result  of  its 
direct  action.  Its  potential  to  transform  facilitates  the 
implementation of new  economic structures that make 
the  economy  more  democratic  to  the  benefit  of  the 
people and society.  

Likewise,  cooperatives  help  to  eliminate  poverty 
and  to  create  employment  through  the  production  of 
high  value-added  goods  and 
the 
participation of vulnerable social sectors. The national 
Government  supports  cooperatives  through  training 
and 
the  development  of 
programmes  that  help  to  increase  their  capacity,  and 
sustainable  development, 
services  and 
assistance, 
financial 
fair 
A/66/PV.45
in  more 
the  creation  of  a  regulatory  framework  conducive  to 
setting  up  and  promoting  such  associations. 
In 
Argentina,  cooperatives  generate  more  than  50,000 
jobs, contributing to more than 9 per cent of the gross 
domestic  product.  Currently,  there  are  more  than 
14 million  people  working 
than  30,000 
cooperatives  and  mutual  associations.  As  unionized 
institutions and economies, democratically managed by 
their members, cooperatives are one of the fundamental 
pillars of the most important process of social inclusion 
in  modern-day  Argentina  by  fostering  values  of 
solidarity and cooperation. 

That transformation can be seen in the increasing 
social inclusion. Depending on their sector of activity, 
cooperatives  are  the  heart  of  our  leap  to  efficient 
productivity.  That  can  be  seen  in  the  percentages  per 
sector:  manufacturing  35  per  cent,  public  services 
16 per  cent,  farming  12  per  cent,  credit  and  financial 
assistance 6.7 per cent, among other areas.  

We  therefore  welcome  the  initiative  to  declare 
2012 International Year of Cooperatives. We hope that 
actions  undertaken  in  that  context  contribute  to  its 
recognition as a promoter of the broadest participation 
of  all  people  in  economic  development  and  that  it 
encourages  all  States 
take  concrete  measures 
towards its development and strengthening. 

No  one  can  dispute  the  fact  that  in  today’s 
Argentina,  cooperatives  are  seen  as  one  of  the  most 
effective means of demonstrating the economic, social 
and  political  power  of  the  unionized  economic  sector. 
Together,  they  help  to  build  a  more  just,  united  and 
inclusive country. 
Mrs.  Furman  (Israel):  The  delegation  of  Israel 

the  world 
appreciates 
the  General 
cooperative  movement.  We  welcome 
Assembly’s  decision  to  declare  2012  the  International 
Year of Cooperatives (resolution 64/136). 

The State of Israel was built on the foundation of 
strong  cooperative  movements.  Cooperatives  were  a 
driving  force 
in  forging  my  country’s  advanced 
agricultural,  industrial  and  transportation  networks. 
Two  of  the  world’s  most  significant  and  successful 
cooperative  business  models  were  developed 
in 
Israel — the kibbutz and the moshav. 

Cooperatives  account  for  more  than  90  per  cent 
of agricultural production and 15 per cent of industrial 
production and industrial exports in Israel today. Israeli 
this  opportunity 
to  salute 
to 
11-57174 

11 
and 
to 
production 
leaders 
investment 
Government 
in 
and  marketing 
in 
the  development  of 
A/66/PV.45 

the 
cooperative  enterprises  are  global 
of 
development, 
technologies 
that  have  revolutionized  agricultural 
production,  particularly  in  the  area  of  irrigation. 
Farmers in every corner of the planet are using Israeli 
technology, developed in cooperatives, to improve crop 
yields, irrigate their fields more efficiently, and reduce 
their carbon footprint. 

Israeli cooperatives continue to be at the forefront 
of  social  development  in  Israel.  A  combination  of 
basic 
effective 
infrastructure 
strong 
cooperative  movements  devoted 
agricultural 
production  has  virtually  eliminated  rural  poverty. 
Israeli cooperatives have enabled our rural populations 
to  achieve  standards  of  living  that  rank  among  the 
highest  of  any  rural  population  in  the  world,  while 
guaranteeing food security for the rest of the country. 

Israel’s  cooperatives  are  significant  drivers  of 
development  because  they  are  independent,  member-
owned  business  enterprises.  They  are  dedicated  to 
meeting  the  needs  of  their  members  by  successfully 
competing  in  globalized  markets.  In  doing  so,  our 
cooperatives 
self-reliance, 
collaboration and cohesion. They have also been at the 
forefront  of  advancing  gender  equality  and  women’s 
empowerment within Israeli society. 

Israel’s  cooperatives  are  significant  employers. 
They  provide  jobs  not  only  for  cooperative  members 
but  also  for  hired  labourers.  All  employees  receive 
wages  and  enjoy  working  conditions  that  meet  the 
standards  of 
the 
the  past 
International  Labour  Organization.  Over 
century, 
the 
transformative  power  of  cooperative  movements.  We 
know  well  that  cooperative  enterprises  build  a  better 
world. 

As we begin to observe the International Year of 
Cooperatives, the Government of Israel pledges to join 
others  around  the  world  to  promote  the  growth  of 
cooperative  frameworks.  We  salute  the  International 
Co-operative Alliance and its member organizations on 
the eve of the 2012 International Year of Cooperatives. 
Mr. Kodama (Japan): I would like first of all to 

thank  Mr.  Al-Nasser,  President  of 
the  General 
Assembly,  for  his  initiative  in  convening  this  meeting 
on the launch of the International Year of Cooperatives. 
I  would  also  like  to  thank  both  Dame  Pauline  Green 
the  decent  work  agenda  of 
has  witnessed 
promote 
community 
Israel 
first-hand 

the 
the 
support  of 
to  sustainable  development 
and  Mr.  Gordon  Brown  for  their  respective  inspiring 
statements. 

The  philosophy  of  cooperatives  first  emerged  in 
the mid-nineteenth century in Japan. Since 1900, when 
the  Industrial  Cooperative  Law  was  enacted  in  Japan, 
agricultural  producers,  forestry  owners,  fishermen  and 
consumers  alike  have  organized  cooperatives  around 
the country. Recently, cooperatives in Japan have been 
strengthening their roles in the public sphere, including 
in  fields  such  as  medical  care,  welfare  and  child-care 
assistance,  in  addition  to  their  traditional  roles  in 
economic  fields  such  as  agriculture,  forestry,  fisheries 
and banking. 
At  the  international  level,  cooperatives  in  Japan 

have  contributed 
in 
developing countries. One example is the development 
of agricultural cooperation in Asia, where the Institute 
for  the  Development  of  Agricultural  Cooperation  in 
Asia, established in Tokyo in 1963, has been operating 
with  funds  raised  from  agricultural  cooperatives  in 
Japan  and  with 
Japanese 
Government. 
The  aims  of  the  Institute  are  to  provide  training 

and  research  services  to  those  associated  with  the 
agricultural  cooperative  movement,  with  a  view  to 
advancing  the  cooperative  movement  and  thereby 
promoting  socio-economic  development,  primarily  for 
Asian countries. In collaboration with the International 
Co-operative  Alliance  (ICA),  the  Institute  organizes 
various  joint  training  courses,  including  courses  on 
safety  and  quality  management 
for  agricultural 
products,  the  revitalization  of  local  communities  by 
rural women  and fostering core leaders  of agricultural 
cooperatives. 
The  Great  East  Japan  Earthquake  in  March  this 

year provided an opportunity to renew our belief about 
the  important  role  that  cooperatives  can  play  in  post-
disaster  recovery  and  reconstruction,  as  mentioned  in 
the Secretary-General’s report on cooperatives in social 
development  and  implementation  of  the  International 
Year 
(A/66/136).  Although 
cooperatives  in  the  area,  especially  agricultural  and 
fisheries  cooperatives,  were  severely  hit  by 
the 
calamity,  in  the  spirit  of  mutual  help  cooperatives 
throughout Japan carried out relief activities, providing 
food,  drugs  and  other  necessities,  as  well  as 
dispatching  medical  doctors,  nurses  and  volunteers  to 
the  devastated  areas.  We  would  like  to  convey  our 
of  Cooperatives 
12 

11-57174 
various 
fields, 
including 


sincerest gratitude to cooperatives around the world for 
the warm support they provided to our country through 
the ICA. 

After  the  General  Assembly  declared  2012  the 
International Year of Cooperatives (resolution 64/136), 
in  August  2010  Japan  launched  a  national  planning 
committee  for  the  International  Year  of  Cooperatives 
2012  as  a  unified  national  body  to  pull  resources  and 
efforts  together  in  making  the  Year  successful  and 
fruitful.  The  committee  consists  of  over  100  people 
from 
cooperatives, 
non-governmental  organizations,  academia,  consumer 
organizations,  the  media  and  business  organizations. 
The  committee  aims  to  increase  public  awareness  of 
the  values  and  roles  of  cooperatives  and  to  take 
measures  to  further  promote  the  development  of 
cooperatives.  

In  preparation  for  the  Year,  the  committee  is 
already  working  on  the  creation  and  distribution  of 
information  materials  on  the  International  Year  of 
Cooperatives.  In  2012,  the  committee  is  planning  to 
hold  several  events  in  Japan,  including  an  opening 
event for the Year in January, a central meeting for the 
International Day of Cooperatives in July and a festival 
of cooperatives next fall. 

In  conclusion,  we  are  hopeful  that  we  can 
promote  greater  awareness  and  understanding  of 
cooperatives 
International  Year  of 
Cooperatives  and  of  the  ways  in  which  cooperatives 
contribute  to  sustainable  development  throughout  the 
international community. 

by welcoming this discussion on cooperatives.  

The Netherlands has a very strong history when it 
comes  to  the  cooperative  movement.  As  early  as  the 
nineteenth 
and 
entrepreneurs started organizing themselves to arrange 
for collective marketing, purchase and procurement of 
inputs  and  for  collective  banking  and 
insurance 
systems. 

Some of our largest companies in the Netherlands 
are  based  on  the  cooperative  model.  For  instance, 
cooperatives  are  market  leaders  in  several  agricultural 
company 
subsectors.  Examples 
FrieslandCampina 
auction 
FloraHolland,  both  leaders  in  their  sector.  One  of  the 
largest banks in the Netherlands, the cooperative bank 
Mr. Schaper (Netherlands): I would like to begin 
the  dairy 
flower 
century, 
farmers 
through 
the 
groups 
of 
are 
and 
the 
A/66/PV.45
Rabobank  has  its  roots  in  the  agricultural  sector. This 
morning  at  the  informal  round  table,  the  Chairman  of 
the Board of the Rabobank Group, Mr. Moerland, who 
is  present  here  today,  elaborated  on  the  role  of  the 
cooperative  bank.  For  example,  it  provides  inclusive 
finance and strengthens value chains in the agricultural 
sector. 

On  the  Government  side,  three  weeks  ago  our 
Minister  for  International  Cooperation  addressed  a 
conference of chairpersons and directors of cooperative 
companies in the Netherlands. He emphasized that our 
agricultural  sector  in  particular,  but  other  sectors  as 
well, have thrived on the cooperative model throughout 
the years. Indeed, cooperative companies do relatively 
well in these years of economic turbulence, as they are 
owned  by  the  farmers  and  entrepreneurs  themselves, 
and  are  therefore  not  exposed  to  the  caprices  of 
shareholders on the stock exchange. 

We believe that another very important feature of 
the cooperative movement is that both large and small 
entrepreneurs  and  farmers  are  members  of  the  same 
cooperatives, all benefiting from economies of scale — 
an  interesting  example,  I  would  say,  of  inherent 
inclusiveness. 

At  the  international  level,  in  the  context  of  the 
Government’s policy with respect to food security, the 
Netherlands  supports  a  programme  called  Farmers 
Fighting  Poverty.  This  €50-million  programme 
is 
meant  to  strengthen  organizations  and  cooperatives  of 
farming men and women. Through the programme, the 
Dutch  cooperative  companies  support  their  partner 
organizations and cooperatives in developing countries. 
For  instance,  The  Greenery,  a  leading  international 
fruit  and  vegetable  supplier,  successfully  introduced 
Ugandan  horticulturist  associations 
to  European 
buyers.  The  Dutch  cooperative  CR  Delta  assisted 
Rwandese  and  Indian  farmers  in  cattle  improvement. 
Employees  of  FrieslandCampina  support  local  milk-
chilling cooperatives in Kenya in the establishment  of 
processing facilities.  

The  Netherlands  did  not  establish  a  formal 
national committee for 2012. We feel strongly that the 
cooperative 
lead 
themselves. However, the Government is, of course, in 
close contact with the national cooperative movement. 
During  the  year,  several  events  will  be  held  in  the 
Netherlands  to  draw  attention  to  the  cooperative 
movement. 
companies 
should 
take 
the 
11-57174 

13 
Mr.  Srivali  (Thailand):  At 
A/66/PV.45 


To  conclude,  I  would  like  to  re-emphasize  that 
the  cooperative  model  has  been  a  success  in  our 
country  and  that  it  is  our  hope  that  we  can  support 
other countries on their road to economic independence 
by sharing knowledge and experience. 
the  outset,  my 

delegation would like to express our appreciation to the 
Mongolian  Government,  the  principal  sponsor  of  the 
resolutions  on  cooperatives  in  social  development,  as 
well as the Department of Economic and Social Affairs 
and  relevant  United  Nations  specialized  agencies  for 
their  efforts  in  coordinating  and  organizing  activities 
for the 2012 International Year of Cooperatives. 

Thailand, a sponsor of the resolutions on the role 
of  cooperatives  adopted  by  the  General Assembly  and 
the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the 
Pacific, is pleased to participate in this special plenary 
meeting  to  proclaim  2012  the  International  Year  of 
Cooperatives.  This  meeting  presents  a  unique 
opportunity for the General Assembly to recognize the 
contribution  of  cooperatives  to  economic  and  social 
development,  which  can  contribute 
to  achieving 
internationally agreed development targets, such as the 
Millennium Development Goals. 
the 

My  delegation  welcomes 
Secretary-General 
social 
development  and  implementation  of  the  International 
Year of Cooperatives (A/66/136). We fully concur with 
the  report  that  cooperatives  provide  a  framework  that 
enables  the  self-empowerment  of  the  poor  and  other 
marginalized  groups  through  community  self-reliance, 
collaboration and cohesion. The cooperative principles 
of  self-help  and  collective  action  also  promote 
empowerment and participation, which enable the poor 
to  become  active  participants  in  the  improvement  of 
their own livelihoods and economic futures. 

Thailand  has  long  recognized  that  cooperatives 
are  important  partners  in  the  implementation  of  the 
development agenda. As my Foreign Minister recently 
stated  during  the  general  debate  (see  A/66/PV.28), 
Thailand  firmly  believes  that  sustainable  development 
is  a  key  foundation  for  durable  peace  and  that  the 
development  agenda  must  be  people-centred. 
In 
keeping  with 
sustainable 
implementation, Thailand reiterates its firm belief that 
community-level  ownership  must  be  promoted  and 
special attention paid to empowering the impoverished 
and  the  marginalized.  In  that  light,  self-help  groups 
that  policy  and 
the  report  of 
cooperatives 
its 
on 
in 

the  cooperative  system, 
such as cooperatives can provide communities with an 
economic  and  social  space  in  which  the  impoverished 
and  the  marginalized  can  gain  access  to  and  become 
part  of 
thereby  gaining 
employment, raising income and reducing poverty. 

At  this  meeting,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
reaffirm  Thailand’s  continued  support  to  cooperatives 
and reiterates that Thailand will continue to encourage 
and facilitate their establishment and development. The 
Royal  Thai  Government’s  macroeconomic  policy  on 
cooperatives has always been clear. We have worked to 
enhance  the  capacity  of  our  cooperatives  as  part  of 
efforts  to  promote,  support  and  protect  them  and 
preserve  their  autonomy,  in  accordance  with  our 
Constitution.  The  Royal  Thai  Government  has  been 
working in an integrated way with stakeholders to find 
ways to achieve that goal. The Ministry of Agriculture 
and  Cooperatives,  which  is  mandated  to  promote  and 
develop the cooperative system in Thailand, is a prime 
example of my country’s commitment in that regard. 

As we draw nearer to the year 2015, our hopes of 
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  will 
need  our  renewed  attention  and  enhanced  collective 
efforts. We will need to enlist help from all actors and 
promote  greater  public  participation,  especially  of  the 
impoverished and the marginalized, in order to achieve 
our  development  targets  in  a  sustainable  manner  and 
look  beyond  2015.  Thailand  firmly  believes  that 
cooperatives can contribute to achieving that goal. We 
therefore  urge  all  Member  States  to  take  this  unique 
opportunity  to  rediscover  cooperatives  as  important 
partners  in  our  development  agenda  in  2012  and 
beyond. 

Mr.  Quintaes  (Brazil):  Brazil  welcomes  this 
special  meeting  devoted  to  the  official  launch  of  the 
International Year of Cooperatives 2012. The Brazilian 
Mission  is  very  pleased  to  participate  in  today’s 
meeting  and  commends  the  excellent  statements  that 
have been made on this important issue.  

Allow me at the outset to express our gratitude to 
the  Secretary-General  for  presenting  his  report  on 
cooperatives in social development and implementation 
of the International Year of Cooperatives (A/66/136). I 
would  also  like  to  pay  tribute  to  the  Department  of 
Economic and Social Affairs and to the Committee for 
the  Promotion  and  Advancement  of  Cooperatives  for 
their 
this 
International Year and its events. 
excellent  work 
in  preparation 
for 
14 

11-57174 
the  world. 
fastest-rising  economies  of 



In their early years, cooperatives were seen as an 
alternative  by  those  who  were  excluded  from  the 
labour  market  during  particularly  difficult 
formal 
economic 
times.  Now,  however,  cooperatives  are 
present in all countries, in a variety of sectors ranging 
from  agriculture 
to  financial  services.  They  are 
increasingly  responsible  for  an  important  part  of 
economic growth and income generation, especially in 
the 
In 
developing  countries,  given  their  particularities  and 
democratic  nature,  cooperatives  have  proven  to  be  a 
particularly  effective  economic  activity,  a  viable 
alternative  for  attaining  sustainable  development  and 
an  essential  contribution  to  the  achievement  of  the 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  mainly  the 
Millennium Development Goals. 

Cooperatives  can  be  traced  back  to  the  early 
stages  of  Brazilian  history.  Our  long  and  successful 
experience with cooperatives provides a good example 
of  how  local  capacities  can  be  harnessed  when  the 
adequate legal frameworks and public policies  are put 
in  place  to  foster  the  creation  and  development  of 
cooperative enterprises.  

Today, Brazilian cooperatives are responsible for 
a significant part of gross domestic product growth and 
have  a  considerable  level  of  participation  in  the 
and 
economy, 
microfinance  sectors.  They  also  show 
impressive 
results 
income  and 
facilitating  more  equitable  participation  in  decision-
making processes at all levels. 

Cooperatives  are  also  playing  a  critical  role  in 
achieving  and  ensuring  food  security.  Through  the 
Brazil  Without  Poverty  plan  launched  in  June,  the 
Brazilian  Government  is  purchasing  corn  seeds  from 
agricultural  cooperatives  to  be  distributed  to  people 
living in extremely vulnerable situations in rural areas.  

Brazil  was  the  first  country  in  Latin America  to 
have  a  credit  union.  Today,  Brazil  ranks  thirteenth  in 
the  world  in  the  number  of  financial  cooperatives. 
Cooperatives account for 17 per cent of bank branches 
in  the  country  and  are  an  important  tool  for  granting 
access  to  formal  credit  and  ensuring  a  more  inclusive 
financial 
to  benefit  populations 
underserved by traditional commercial institutions. 

for  Social 
Development,  Member  States  committed  to  utilizing 
and  fully  developing  the  potential  and  contribution  of 
the  1995  World  Summit 
jobs,  distributing 
in  creating 
agricultural 
especially 
so  as 
sector 
the 
At 
in 
A/66/PV.45
cooperatives  for  the  attainment  of  social  development 
goals,  in  particular  the  eradication  of  poverty,  the 
generation  of  full  and  productive  employment  and  the 
enhancement of social integration.  

Recommendation No. 193 states that  

International  Labour  Organization 
Likewise, 
“measures  should  be  adopted  to  promote  the 
potential  of  cooperatives 
in  all  countries, 
irrespective  of  their  level  of  development,  in 
order  to  assist  them  …  to  create  and  develop 
income-generating  activities  …  develop  human 
resource 
their 
competitiveness  …  and  contribute  to  sustainable 
human development”. 
In 
to  Government 
capacities  … 
strengthen 
addition 
support, 
replicating 
in  particular 
the 

international  community, 
the  United 
Nations  system,  could  take  various  actions  to  assist 
cooperatives  in  developing  their  full  potential.  The 
World  Food  Programme  Purchase 
for  Progress 
initiative  provides  a  good  example  of  a  set  of  actions 
guided  by  the  spirit  of  the  World  Summit  for  Social 
Development. Through  that  initiative,  the World  Food 
Programme  supports  agricultural  cooperatives  by 
promoting  their  participation  in  food  procurement. 
Other United Nations agencies, funds and programmes 
should  consider 
that  experience  by 
facilitating  purchases  from  local  cooperatives  through 
in-country  programmes,  especially 
least 
developed  countries  and  countries  emerging  from 
natural disasters and conflict. 
As  indicated  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report, 

cooperatives  may  play 
in 
peacebuilding and recovery settings based on common 
interests,  including  the  promotion  of  dialogue  and 
economic activities that contribute to social integration 
and cohesion.  

International  Year  of 
Cooperatives, the General Assembly has reinforced the 
international  commitment  to  supporting  and  fostering 
the  creation  of  cooperatives,  and  has  also  recognized 
their invaluable role in improving social and economic 
well-being  through  the  establishment  of  a  viable, 
dynamic  and  distinctive  sector  of  the  economy.  We 
believe that the International Year of Cooperatives will 
importance  of  establishing 
help 
adequate 
financial 
mechanisms to ensure the  sustainability and economic 
viability of cooperatives. 
frameworks  and  viable 
to  highlight 
launching 
important 
legal 
role 
this 
the 
By 
in 
the 
an 
11-57174 

15 

to  have 
The 
the 
to  address 
Nigeria 
strongly 
supports 
the 
the  affairs  of 
that  I  feel  highly  honoured 
A/66/PV.45 

Mrs. Onwuliri (Nigeria): I wish on behalf of my 

delegation  to  commend  President  Al-Nasser  for  the 
effective  conduct  of 
the  General 
Assembly  since  the  beginning  of  this  session,  and  to 
state 
the 
opportunity  to  address  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-sixth session on this important day of the launch 
of the International Year of Cooperatives 2012. Please 
be  assured  of  Nigeria’s  continued  support  and 
cooperation  towards  the  successful  conclusion  of  the 
session. 

successful 
launching  this  morning  of  the  International  Year  of 
Cooperatives,  in  fulfilment  of  resolution  65/184.  The 
conclusions  of  the  informal  round  table  discussions 
held  earlier  today  should  serve  to  build  the  necessary 
cooperative  and  collective  efforts 
the 
socio-economic  and  political  problems  confronting 
humankind in our time. 

launch  of 
International  Year  of 
Cooperatives,  following  the  proclamation  of  2012  as 
the  year  for  promoting  and  raising  awareness  of  the 
capacity  and  capability  of  cooperatives,  is  a  seminal 
event.  Indeed,  it  is  a  milestone  that  is  critically 
important in addressing the socio-economic well-being 
and  living  standards  of  all  peoples,  by  which  I  mean 
the quality and, indeed, the dignity of life.  
time  of  global  financial  crisis,  food 

At  a 
shortages, 
and 
fluctuations 
environmental degradation, it has become increasingly 
challenging  for  the  public  sector  to  provide  all  of  the 
resources  and,  indeed,  to  lead  all  of  the  initiatives 
aimed at national socio-economic development. In such 
circumstances,  many  nations,  especially  developing 
countries,  have  been  compelled  to  undertake  major 
reforms in order to address a dwindling financial sector 
and expand the productivity base through partnerships 
with 
sector  and  non-governmental 
organizations.  

The  major  focus  has  been  on  pooling  resources 
across  all  sectors  and  comprehensively  involving  all 
stakeholders  to  address  key  development  issues  and 
questions. Therein lie the wisdom of and key factor in 
the adoption of resolution 65/184, which was designed 
to  raise  public  awareness  on  the  pivotal  role  that 
socio-economic 
cooperatives 
development 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  in  particular.  To  that 
could 
in  general,  and 
in  achieving 
the  private 
in 
fuel 
supply 
play 
in 
the 
and 
International 
end, it is incumbent on every Member State to develop 
viable  national  policies  and  enact  national  legislation 
to promote the growth of cooperatives.  

Nigeria  appreciates  the  steps  being  taken  by  the 
United Nations system to ensure the success of 2012 as 
the  International Year  of  Cooperatives,  particularly  in 
the  area  of  agricultural  and  small  trade  cooperatives. 
We  recognize  the  efforts  of  the  Food  and Agriculture 
Organization 
Labour 
Organization in their plan to integrate the promotion of 
cooperatives into their work. Also, key United Nations 
departments, such as the Department of Economic and 
Social  Affairs  and 
the  Department  of  Public 
Information,  have  also  embarked  on  useful  and 
exploratory communication and outreach initiatives. 

It is vital that the United Nations entities charged 
with  the  responsibility  for  vulnerable  peoples  and 
groups,  including  women,  should  find  the  adoption  of 
effective  cooperative  strategies  useful  in  discharging 
their  mandates.  It  is  also  encouraging  that  many 
countries have established national committees for the 
International Year of Cooperatives, as called for in the 
resolution.  

Nigeria  is  in  the  process  of  establishing  such  a 
committee,  in  accordance  with  the  resolution,  and 
supports  all  international,  regional  and  subregional 
initiatives  on  cooperatives.  At  the  national  level  in 
Nigeria,  umbrella  organizations 
for  cooperatives 
already  exist,  including  the  National  Association  of 
Cooperative  Credit  Unions  of  Nigeria,  which  have 
been  mobilized  for  the  activities  of  the  International 
Year.  

Nigerian  President  Goodluck  Ebele  Jonathan’s 
transformation agenda is aimed at building an inclusive 
society where job creation constitutes a major pillar for 
economic  growth,  providing  cheap  and  long-term 
capital 
for  businesses,  establishing  micro-finance 
banks,  removing  barriers  to  increased  productivity, 
improving  the  environment  for  doing  business,  and 
therefore  aptly  encapsulates 
tenets  of 
cooperatives.  

Through the operationalization of the presidential 
committee that he inaugurated in 2010 to devise ways 
of enhancing Government programmes on job creation 
and  poverty  reduction,  a  5-billion  naira  business  and 
development  fund  was  established  by  the  Bank  of 
Industry, in collaboration with the Dangote Foundation, 
to  provide  soft  loans  to  entrepreneurs  engaged  in 
the  key 
16 

11-57174 
At 
the 
continental 


micro-,  small  and  medium-scale  businesses  in  the 
country. The fund will grant entrepreneurs access at an 
overall single-digit interest rate  of 5 per cent  and will 
be  utilized  for  term  loans,  working  capital  loans, 
leasing of industrial or business equipment, trading and 
allied businesses.  

In  addition,  the  President’s  Administration  will 
continue to support infrastructure  for the development 
of  small  and  growing  businesses  by  boosting  the 
$500-million  intervention  fund  already  in  place  to 
enable  the  Bank  of  Industry  and  the  Nigerian  Export-
Import Bank to continue to lend at single-digit interest 
rates,  to  facilitate  the  increased  access  of  small 
businesses  to  finance,  as  well  as  to  develop  Nigeria’s 
enterprise  culture.  Enterprise  development  centres, 
industrial  clusters  and  job  centres  are  also  to  be 
established to collaborate with the small- and medium-
scale  enterprises  development  agency  of  Nigeria  and 
23 enterprise  development  centres  across  the  country, 
and  to  provide  business  skills  training  aimed  at 
improving the managerial capability of entrepreneurs. 

the  African 
Confederation  of  Cooperative  Savings  and  Credit 
Associations 
the  responsibility  for 
promoting  and  empowering  cooperatives  across  the 
continent. Such initiatives would benefit not only from 
this  global  process,  but  also  from  the  forthcoming 
African  Heads  of  State  Summit  on  Cooperatives  in 
Lomé, Togo, in January 2012. 

For centuries, farmers and traders in Nigeria have 
used  cooperative  societies  to  promote  individual  and 
community  development.  Farmers 
regularly  pool 
human  and  material  resources  to  procure  farm  inputs, 
while traders — through a contribution system locally 
referred  to  as  isusu  —  operate  small-scale  savings 
accounts, especially for raising capital for members in 
rotation.  In  recognition  of  the  tradition  of  Nigerian 
communities,  Government  continues  to  promote  and 
strengthen  cooperatives, 
including  by  establishing 
financial loans and credit schemes and by encouraging 
banks to set aside a portion of their loan portfolios for 
cooperatives. 

The  International  Year  of  Cooperatives  will 
provide  ample  opportunity  to  further  promote  and 
strengthen  the  traditional  practice  that  seems  to  come 
naturally 
the 
opportunity, through meetings and conferences, to take 
advantage  of  the  best  practices  of  other  countries  and 
to  Nigerians.  It  will  also  provide 
is  undertaking 
level, 
A/66/PV.45
and 
strengthen 
them 
electrification, 
communication, 
regions, as well as initiatives at the level of the United 
Nations. It is imperative that we improve the image of 
cooperatives 
as  modern, 
responsive and locally-beneficial business models. 

Nigeria could not agree more with the Secretary-
General’s  conclusion  that  cooperatives  are  rooted  in 
their  communities  and 
to  develop 
thereby  able 
enterprises  aligned  with 
the  social,  cultural  and 
economic  needs  and  vision  of  their  communities. 
Nigeria fully recognizes cooperatives as a basic unit of 
society  and  deserving  of  our  unreserved  support;  we 
must promote a better understanding of their functions 
and  challenges.  Cooperatives,  if  properly  channelled, 
will contribute immensely to societal well-being and a 
better world.  
Ms.  Plaisted  (United  States  of  America):  The 

United  States  fully  supports  the  International  Year  of 
Cooperatives.  Cooperatives  and  credit  unions  play  a 
major  role  in  the  United  States  economy.  More  than 
125  million  Americans  belong 
to  over  21,000 
cooperatives  in  agriculture  and  agribusiness,  finance, 
rural 
housing, 
consumer goods and retailing. 
the  history  of  United  States 

the  federal 
cooperatives,  state  Governments  and 
Government  have 
and 
regulated  cooperative  enterprise,  while  recognizing 
that  successful  cooperatives  are  those  that  serve  their 
members’  interests.  The  result  has  been  a  strong, 
autonomous  cooperative  movement  that  plays  a  major 
role  in  the  United  States  economy,  with  revenues 
exceeding $230 billion. 

In  particular,  the  United  States  Department  of 
Agriculture  (USDA)  has  80  years  of  experience  in 
supporting and implementing cooperative programmes. 
The  USDA  Rural  Development  Cooperative  Services 
Program  promotes  the  understanding  and  use  of  the 
cooperative form of business as a viable organizational 
option 
for  marketing  and  distributing  products. 
Cooperatives 
business 
development  in  rural  communities,  whether  in  the 
traditional form that provides day care services to rural 
communities, or in the form of today’s new generation 
of  biofuel  cooperatives,  which  lessen  our  dependence 
on foreign oil.  

Cooperatives provide rural residents with new job 
opportunities,  enhanced  educational  and  health-care 
services,  and  products  that  enable  them  to  compete  in 
cooperation 
Throughout 
cornerstone 
encouraged 
are 
a 
of 
11-57174 

17 
for 
rural 
addition 
to  our  domestic 
the  United  States 
A/66/PV.45 

today’s  global  enterprises.  The  USDA  Cooperative 
Program  provides  assistance 
residents 
interested  in  forming  new  cooperatives,  administers 
programmes that fund value-added producer grants and 
rural  cooperative  development  centres,  and  provides 
assistance to small socially-disadvantaged producers. 

cooperative 
programmes, 
also  provides 
international  development  assistance  in  partnership 
with  cooperative  development  organizations,  drawing 
on  the  experience  and  expertise  of  United  States 
cooperatives  in  economic  development  programmes. 
Some  of  the  projects  we  have  supported  include 
creating  an  international  credit  union  movement  with 
more  than  72  million  members;  building  rural  electric 
systems  in  the  Philippines  and  Bangladesh  that  serve 
close to 50 million households; and helping to establish 
the Indian Farmers Fertiliser Cooperative Limited that 
today  is  one  of  the  world’s  most  successful  fertilizer 
firms. 

The  United  States  is  happy  to  participate  in  this 
launch of the International Year of Cooperatives, which 
we  hope  will  help  raise  awareness  of  the  benefits  of 
cooperatives. 
Mr.  Tsymbaliuk  (Ukraine):  On  this  remarkable 

day to launch the International Year of Cooperatives, it 
gives  me  pleasure  to  convey  to  all  this  message  of 
solidarity  from  the  Ukrainian  cooperative  community. 
The  cooperative  movement  in  my  country  has  a  long 
history,  dating  back  to  as  early  as  1870.  Ukraine  now 
enjoys a large and developed cooperative sector that is 
considered 
economic 
development  and  improved  livelihoods.  The  nation’s 
consumer,  credit  and  agricultural  cooperatives  and  the 
products and services they produce provide significant 
employment and social benefits. Ukraine’s cooperative 
sector employs nearly 1.7 million people, many in rural 
areas,  and  accounts  for  more  than  $125  million  in 
budget revenues. 

I  cannot  fail  to  mention  the  numerous  Ukrainian 
cooperative  credit  unions  —  here  in  the  United  States 
of America and in Canada, Argentina, Brazil and many 
other  countries  — 
that  have  united  millions  of 
Ukrainians and demonstrated great success even under 
the  difficult  conditions  resulting  from  the  global 
economic and financial crisis.  

Ukraine  have  recognized 
The  cooperative  unions  and  the  Government  of 
the 
importance  of 
important 
factor 
the 
an 
for 
In 

to 
to 
and 
International Year of Cooperatives and plan to actively 
support  the  initiative.  It  will  provide  us  with  an 
opportunity to spread cooperative values and principles 
at the local and national level.  In accordance with the 
relevant  provisions  of  General  Assembly  resolution 
65/184  on  cooperatives  in  social  development,  the 
cooperative  unions  of  Ukraine  have 
launched 
preparations  to  draft  a  programme  to  promote  the 
cooperative movement, to be submitted to the President 
of Ukraine. 

In  honour  of  the  International  Year,  cooperative 
unions and executive  authorities  are  considering plans 
for  promotional  and  publicity  events 
increase 
awareness  of  the  contribution  of  cooperatives  to 
employment  generation 
socio-economic 
development. Those will include an official observance 
ceremony,  a  scientific  conference  on  the  cooperative 
movement  in  Ukraine,  a  media  campaign,  various 
exhibitions  and junior contests, as well  as cooperative 
charity  initiatives  to  support  vulnerable  groups  of  the 
population. 

As  we  move  into  the  International  Year,  the 
Central Consumer Union of Ukraine will seek to better 
integrate 
the  world  cooperative  community, 
including by applying for membership in the European 
Community of Consumer Cooperatives. 

In  this  International  Year  of  Cooperatives,  we 
must  seize  the  momentum  in  order  to  promote  the 
central idea behind the cooperative movement, namely, 
to  better  address  the  needs  of  humanity  and  build  a 
better  world.  For  its  part,  Ukraine  will  actively 
endeavour,  along  with  other  Member  States,  to  give 
concrete  substance  to  the  spirit  of  the  International 
Year of Cooperatives. We believe in the success of the 
cooperative  model  in  our  country  and  throughout  the 
world.  That  model 
supported  by 
Governments,  international  organizations  and,  what 
matters  most,  by  the  daily  dedicated  work  of  every 
member of the world cooperative community. 

Mr. Orozco (Guatemala) (spoke in Spanish): We 
wish to speak in this important forum to acknowledge 
the  United  Nations  for  having  declared  2012  the 
International  Year  of  Cooperatives.  I  think  this  is  a 
good  time  and  a  special  opportunity  to  commemorate 
and 
the  cooperative 
movement.  I  do  not  know  if  they  ever  imagined  that 
one day we  would be speaking here and remembering 
them,  because  there  are  nearly  1  billion  cooperative 
the  pioneers  of 
should  be 
recognize 
into 
18 

11-57174 
A/66/PV.45
in 
in 
this  meeting  of 
cooperative  members, 


members  around  the  world,  and  that  is  extremely 
important. 

The delegation of Guatemala is also honoured to 
be  participating 
the  General 
Assembly  to  acknowledge  and  pay  tribute  and  to  say 
that  this  is  an  opportunity  and  a  challenge  for  all 
members of cooperatives around the world, particularly 
Guatemala.  In  this  recognition  by  the  United  Nations 
we see a challenge and an opportunity to continue with 
our work in our countries and communities and all over 
the  world.  We  are  also  honoured  to  recognize  our 
representative in the Organization, Mr. Gert Rosenthal, 
who  had  the  honour  of  co-sponsoring  the  original 
resolution  64/136  on  this  topic  on  behalf  of  our 
country. 

Guatemala also feels that we are here recognizing 
the work that cooperative members have accomplished, 
particularly  in  recent  years.  It  has  not  been  easy.  At 
times we have been misunderstood, particularly during 
the  armed  confrontation,  but  thanks  also  to  this 
Organization,  we  have  been  able 
to  advance 
Guatemalan society. In Guatemala, there are more than 
1.3  million 
representing 
5 million  Guatemalans,  and  we  are  honoured  that  the 
cooperative  movement,  through  its  association  and 
philosophy,  has  given  us  the  opportunity  to  develop 
and  to  foster  our  families’  and  our  country’s  well-
being. We would like to state that we in Guatemala are 
also  honoured  by  the  fact  that  of  our  1.3  million 
cooperative members, 43 per cent are women, a fact of 
which  we  are  proud.  This  is  also  in  line  with  the 
resolution  adopted  by  the  United  Nations,  which 
recognizes  that  the  cooperative  movement  has  the 
potential  to  include  every  stakeholder  of  all  various 
kinds. 

In our country, little by little and year by year, we 
are changing our traditional ways of doing things, and 
in  cooperatives  we  are  now  seeing  men,  women,  the 
elderly, and indigenous and non-indigenous people. We 
have  been  able  to  show  that  through  our  cooperative 
enterprises  we  have  been  able  to  pool  our  efforts  and 
resources  and  to  demonstrate  that  these  can  compete 
with  other  types  of  enterprise,  which  we  respect.  We 
have become the best coffee producers, and we are now 
the  main  exporter  and  national  producer  of  coffee  in 
Guatemala. Thanks to the cooperative organization, we 
have  been  able  to  begin  producing  cardamom  and  are 
now the main producer of organic cardamom. We have 
also  been  able 
the 
environment  and  in  the  last  15  years  have  planted 
to  give  close  attention 
to 
the  Central  American 
into  banking,  and, 
rural  women,  Mayan  groups, 
30 million  trees,  another  element  in  line  with  this 
meeting’s  concerns.  No  other  institution,  enterprise  or 
Government entity in Guatemala has achieved what we 
have been able to do with regard to the environment. 

We  have  been  able  to  develop  the  capacity  to 
enter  new  areas  of  activity  for  developing  our 
companies. A little more than 10 years ago we decided 
to  move 
together  with  other 
sectors — 
small 
companies,  and  the  Government,  as  a  shareholder  — 
we created the Rural Development Bank. We can now 
state that we are the largest bank in the country and the 
ninth 
region.  We  are 
democratizing  the  banking  economy  in  rural  areas 
through  our  cooperatives,  and  with  more 
than 
900 agencies,  we  are  now  in  every  community  —  in 
mountains  and  in  huts,  all  these  people  can  get  to  a 
bank, but a bank with a human face. 

We  have  thus  shown  our  country  and  the  world 
that  improvements  can  be  made.  Every  day  we  are 
becoming more inclusive. Our distribution of wealth is 
also  developing  horizontally,  unlike 
the  wealth 
distribution  that  we  have  experienced  in  earlier  years, 
and the cooperative organization is a testament to this. 
We  in  Guatemala  are  not  angry,  because  we  are  busy 
working,  because  we  genuinely  have  a  socially 
responsible  economy. That  is  why  we  feel  so  inspired 
by the content and message of this declaration. 

In  conclusion,  let  me  say  that  this  is  what  we 
have demonstrated and continue to demonstrate in our 
cooperative  organizations  and  in  our  country.  We  are 
also  working  very  hard  to  achieve  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. We would like, therefore, to thank 
President Al-Nasser for this important declaration, but 
most  importantly  for  having  convened  this  plenary 
meeting to launch the international year, which is why 
we  are  working  together  with  so  many  cooperators 
throughout  the  world  and  are  happy  to  be  here  at  this 
event on behalf of all those who were not able to make 
the trip. 
Mr.  Haniff  (Malaysia):  The  General  Assembly 

declared 2012 as the International Year of Cooperatives 
in  its  resolution  64/136.  Mandated  by  the  General 
Assembly,  the  global  launch  of  the  International Year 
of  Cooperatives  aims  to  increase  public  awareness 
about 
to 
socio-economic  development  and  the  achievement  of 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  as  well  as  to 
contributions 
cooperatives 
their 
and 
11-57174 

19 
through 
They 
social  media. 
that  are  essential 
the  contribution  of  cooperatives 
A/66/PV.45 

promote  the  formation  and  growth  of  cooperatives 
worldwide. 

With  the  theme  “Cooperative  enterprises  build  a 
better  world”,  the Year  seeks  to  encourage  the  growth 
and  establishment  of  cooperatives  all  over  the  world, 
highlighting 
to 
socio-economic development, particularly their impact 
on  poverty  reduction,  youth,  ageing,  disabled  persons 
and family. 

It  is  undeniable  that  broader  livelihood  and 
ecological  changes  have  taken  place  in  the  world 
community following disruptions in the food chain and 
energy security; we must also not forget the threats of 
climate  change.  In  a  different  arena,  we  also  have  an 
emerging  generation  that  relies  on  social  media  in  an 
essential  way.  Young  people  collaborate  with  one 
another 
are 
temperamentally  predisposed  toward  working  together 
and  connecting  with  one  another,  two  aspects  of 
cooperation 
to  our  goals.  By 
combining those two factors, the International Year  of 
Cooperatives  is  a  well-timed  event  that  represents  the 
depth  of  understanding  of  the  entire  cooperative 
movement. 

The 1995 World Summit for Social Development 
in  Copenhagen  stands  as  one  of  the  achievements  of 
contemporary  international  governance.  That  meeting 
brought Governments together to reach a consensus on 
the need to put people at the centre of development. It 
recognized, 
that  national 
development and the development of the intrinsic value 
of  people  as  a  whole  and  that  individuals  as  the 
components  of  that  whole  were  interrelated,  mutually 
dependent  and  absolutely  necessary.  The  follow-up  to 
that  summit,  the  twenty-fourth  special  session  of  the 
General  Assembly 
expanded 
perspectives on the protection and promotion of social 
development  and  provided 
targets  and 
strategies for setting and achieving social development 
objectives. 

in 
While 
implementing the goals agreed on at the World Summit 
for  Social  Development  and  the  twenty-fourth  special 
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  such  achievements 
still  remain  hostage  to  the  contemporary  instability  in 
global  and  national  financial  markets,  as  well  as  to 
challenges  caused  by  the  fuel  and  food  crises.  Those 
challenges  delay,  and  at  times  derail,  the  main  policy 
efforts  of  national  Governments,  which  are  needed  to 
there  has  been 
some  progress 
among  other 
in  2000, 
specific 
further 

and 
generation 
employment 
the  free-for-all  of 
achieve  long-lasting  social  development,  economic 
increased 
growth, 
productivity.  In  addition, 
the 
liberalization  of  the  financial  sector  has  not  been 
accompanied  by  the  requisite  safeguards  of  corporate 
and market responsibility and discipline. 

The  purpose  of  development  is  to  create  a 
favourable  environment  so  that  people  can  enjoy 
healthy,  safe  and  creative  lives.  Pure  development 
cannot guarantee social harmony in a pluralistic society 
like  Malaysia.  Our  national  development  has  always 
emphasized growth with equity. Malaysia believes that 
importance  should  be  given  to  programmes  that  will 
improve  the  population’s  quality  of  life  by  providing 
essential  social  services,  such  as  primary  health  care 
and  various  types  of  financial  assistance. As  it  has  in 
the  past,  the  Government  will  continue  to  sequence  a 
mix  of  economic  and  social  policies  to  ensure  that 
economies and social goals are met simultaneously. 

Allow  me  now  to  touch  on  questions  relating  to 
youth, ageing, and disabled persons. The social agenda 
of  Malaysia’s  national  policies,  through  the  nation’s 
New  Economic  Policy,  make  both  implicit  and  direct 
reference 
the  creation  of  a  “caring  society”. 
Malaysia  believes  that  the  success  of  a  nation  is 
reflected  not  only 
terms  but  more 
importantly  in  social  development.  There  seem  to  be 
great difficulties in determining the right formula for a 
nation’s  success,  particularly  in  the  social  sector. 
However,  since  its  independence,  Malaysia  has  been 
active  in  developing  and  prescribing  policies  that 
provide  various  goods  and  services  to  its  people, 
including  the  elderly,  persons  with  disabilities,  family 
and  youth,  enabling  them  to  take  advantage  of  and 
share in the wealth and prosperity of the nation. 

There  are  12.5  million  Malaysian  young  people, 
accounting for about 43 per cent of the  population. In 
terms  of  structures,  mechanisms,  policies  and  plans, 
the  Government  of  Malaysia  ensures  a  full  range  of 
necessary 
to  guarantee  youth 
participation  and  empowerment  at  all  levels.  The 
Government  continues  to  engage  with  the  younger 
generation through nationwide events. For example, in 
May 2011, when National Youth Day was celebrated to 
honour  the  youth  of  the  country,  Putrajaya,  which 
houses the Federal Government Administrative Centre, 
turned  into  a  sea  of  young  people.  The  celebration 
included  a  youth  convention  that  discussed  future 
in  economic 
systems 
support 
to 
things, 
20 

11-57174 


avenues for the transformation of youth. Putrajaya has 
also been officially declared as a youth-friendly city. 

With respect to ageing, although the proportion of 
our  population  characterized  as  “older  persons”  is  not 
currently  as  high  as  in  some  developed  countries, 
Malaysia  has  a  rapidly  ageing  population.  Older 
persons  constituted  4.3  per  cent  or  1.2  million  of  the 
total  population  in  2005.  This  number  is  expected  to 
grow to 3.3 million, or 9.8 per cent of the population, 
by the year 2020. 
Realizing  the  socio-economic  implications  of  an 

ageing  population,  the  Government  of  Malaysia  has 
taken  proactive  steps  to  improve  the  status  of  older 
persons. A new national policy and a plan of action for 
older  persons  are  also  expected  to  be  implemented  by 
the  end  of  2011.  There  are  various  strategies  and 
improvements included in the new policy and plan that 
will  meet  the  current  and  future  needs  of  the  ageing 
population.  

With regard to the social development issues that 
affect  persons  with  disabilities,  the  Persons  with 
Disabilities Act 2008, which was passed by Parliament 
in  December  2007,  came  into  force  on  7  July  2008. 
That  Act  provides  for  the  registration,  protection, 
rehabilitation,  development  and  well-being  of  persons 
with  disabilities,  the  establishment  of  the  National 
Council  for  Persons  with  Disabilities,  and  for  related 
matters. The act aims to ensure that the rights, interests 
and  welfare  of  persons  with  disabilities  are  protected. 
In  addition,  the Act  is  also  intended  to  assist  persons 
with  disabilities  in  seeking  a  better  life  and  to  enable 
them to contribute to national development. 

Malaysia believes that it is important to promote 
healthy  families  through  information  on  health  and 
disease prevention, family planning, nutrition and child 
development  programmes,  as  well  as  by  teaching 
parenting  skills,  which  include  child  upbringing  and 
discipline,  interaction  and  communication  between 
parents  and  children,  and  improving  self-esteem.  In 
addition 
intellectual  and  emotional 
development, programmes aimed at developing family 
members  who  are  confident,  responsible,  considerate, 
hardworking and dedicated are vital to the family.  

People  are  the  core  and  the  key  to  development. 
Investment  in  people’s  well-being  is  equivalent  to 
investing  in  the  future  well-being  of  all  societies,  and 
in progress and peace. This is the time to empower and 
to  promoting 
A/66/PV.45
The 
success 
of 
ownership 
strengthen  the  family,  youth,  the  elderly  and  the 
disabled to address future challenges. 
Mr. Momen (Bangladesh): As one of the regular 

sponsors  of  the  Third  Committee  draft  resolution  on 
cooperatives, it is a pleasure for my delegation to speak 
at today’s plenary meeting devoted to the launch of the 
International Year of Cooperatives 2012. The history of 
cooperatives in our part of the world dates back to the 
British  colonial  period.  Starting  its  journey  in  1904 
with  the  aim  of  raising  agricultural  production  and 
rural  economic  advancement  through  production  and 
processing  services,  the  cooperative  movement  has 
expanded  into  other  sectors  of  the  economy,  such  as 
fisheries,  dairy,  housing,  microfinance  and  the  service 
sector.  Over  the  years,  the  movement  has  evolved  to 
become a tool for social transformation. 

cooperatives 
agricultural 
following  our  independence  in  1971  was  possible 
because  of  the  patronage  of  the  Government  of 
Bangladesh.  Cooperative 
and  State 
patronage of it were enshrined in our Constitution. The 
Constitution mandates cooperatives as one of the three 
modes of ownership — public, cooperative and private.  
Since  1972,  two  systems  of  cooperatives  have 

been 
traditional 
cooperatives,  under  the  Department  of  Cooperatives, 
and  two-tier  cooperatives  under  the  Integrated  Rural 
Development  Programme,  later  institutionalized  in  the 
The 
Bangladesh  Rural  Development  Board. 
cooperatives  under 
the 
Comilla  Model,  which  is  a  time-tested  model.  Huge 
investments were made in both systems. Consequently, 
cooperative  societies  increased  phenomenally.  As  of 
June 2009, the number of primary cooperative societies 
stood at 163,000 and the number of members of those 
societies  was  around  8.5  million. The  working  capital 
of  those  societies  was  BDT  19.09  billion,  which  is 
equivalent to $260 million.  

there  were  21  national 
time, 
cooperative  societies  and  1,107  central  cooperative 
societies. For example, Milk Vita, the trade name of the 
Bangladesh  Milk  Producers’  Cooperative  Union 
Limited,  one  of  the  major  national  cooperatives  of 
Bangladesh,  known 
for  providing  quality  dairy 
products, 
is  a  successful  example  of  small-scale 
cooperative milk production.  

separate  Department  of  Cooperatives,  under 
Within  the  Government  structure,  we  have  a 
the 
the  Programme  followed 
At 
the  same 
practiced 
in  Bangladesh  — 
11-57174 

21 

Having  followed  our  work  throughout  the  day,  I 
to  offer  a  short  summary  of  our 
A/66/PV.45 

Ministry  of  Local  Government,  Rural  Development 
and Cooperatives. To ensure maximum penetration, we 
have cooperative offices up to the subdistrict level. To 
celebrate  the  International  Year  of  Cooperatives,  we 
have already designated a focal point in the Ministry. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  report  that  the 
Government  of  Bangladesh  is  now  working  on  the 
formulation  of  its  National  Cooperatives  Policy  2011. 
In  Bangladesh,  every  year,  the  first  Saturday  of  the 
is  observed  as  National 
month  of  November 
Cooperative  Day.  We  recognize 
that  cooperatives 
present  opportunities  in  social  awareness-building, 
entrepreneurship  development  and  community-based 
programmes and activities. Hence, the launching of the 
International Year of Cooperatives 2012 will give us an 
opportunity to take stock of our successes and failures 
and to chalk out a future course of action, because we 
believe that our ultimate goal of eradication of poverty 
is closely tied to the success of our cooperatives. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  We 

have heard the last speaker in the debate on this item.  

would 
like 
deliberations. 
(spoke in English) 

the 
unquestionable  importance  of  the  year  ahead,  the 
International  Year  of  Cooperatives.  Our  speakers  this 
morning  reinforced  the  urgent  importance  of  the 
cooperative enterprise model and its potential to drive 
forward  sustainable  development.  As  speakers  have 
stressed all day, the model itself is one that arose as a 
response  to  crises  and  hardship,  not  unlike  those  that 
we are experiencing today, and it has proven successful 
in  curtailing  the  detrimental  impacts  of  those  crises. 
We have often overlooked it, however, in exploring and 
devising pathways to productive, inclusive, sustainable 
societies.  
We were very inspired by the statements made by 

the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly,  Deputy 
Secretary-General  Asha-Rose  Migiro  and  Cooperative 
Representative  Dame  Pauline  Green,  the  powerful 
statement  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Gordon  Brown, 
former Prime Minister of the United Kingdom, and by 
the  comprehensive  presentation  given  by  Mrs.  Viola 
Onwuliri,  Minister  of  State  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Nigeria. We have all — the speakers I have mentioned 
along  with 
the  Member  States  — 
underscored 
Today’s 
events 
those 
from 
have 
to 
to 
and 
including 
significantly 
the  contribution  of  cooperatives 
highlighted 
to 
sustainable  development  as  a  model  of  economic 
organization  fostering  poverty  reduction,  employment 
generation  and  social  inclusion  and  integration.  We 
have  also  stressed  the  importance  of  partnership  with 
Governments. The  strong  cooperative  movement  is  an 
integral  part  of  developmental  progress,  and  it  can 
contribute 
the  achievement  of 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the Millennium Development Goals. 
The  2012  International  Year  of  Cooperatives 

to  advance  a  vision  of 
presents  an  opportunity 
is  both  viable  and 
that 
sustainable  development 
responsible 
can 
contribute 
the 
that 
democratization  of  the  world  economy.  Many  States 
already  have  in  place  or  are  preparing  to  put  in  place 
national committees, as suggested in resolution 64/136. 
Many  actions  have  been  outlined, 
the 
forthcoming  summit  of  African  Heads  of  State  on 
cooperatives to be held in Lome in January 2012. 

Today  we  are  kick-starting  a  process  of 
worldwide  action  to  ensure  that  the  International Year 
of  Cooperatives  meets  its  objectives. We  have  spoken 
today  of  building  the  capacity  of  cooperatives  to 
compete in an increasingly globalized economy and of 
leveraging  their  potential  for  employment  generation 
and 
their 
autonomy  and  recognizing  their  different  legal  and 
regulatory needs.  

By raising our citizens’ awareness of the benefits 
that cooperatives offer to improve their livelihoods and 
by working with all relevant stakeholders to ensure the 
fair  participation  of  cooperative  enterprises  in  our 
economic  system,  we  are  at  once  bolstering  our 
economic  capacity  and  empowering  communities.  I 
thank  all  who  have 
their 
contributions, and I look forward to the events that the 
International  Year  of  Collectives  will  bring.  As  we 
work together with and for cooperatives, we truly will 
build a better world. 
(spoke in French) 

The plenary meeting devoted to the launch of the 
year 2012 as  the International Year of Cooperatives is 
now concluded. 

consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda item 27. 

The Assembly has thus concluded this stage of its 
inclusive  development,  while  ensuring 
  The meeting rose at 5.50 p.m. 
spoken 
today 
for 
22 

11-57174 
