
A/66/PV.19
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

19th plenary meeting 
Friday, 23 September 2011, 9 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 





  The meeting was called to order at 9.15 a.m. 

Address by Mr. John Evans Atta Mills, President of 
the Republic of Ghana 
The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Ghana. 

Mr.  John  Evans  Atta  Mills,  President  of  the 
Republic of Ghana, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  John  Evans  Atta  Mills, 
President of the Republic of Ghana, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.  
President  Mills:  Permit  me  to  extend  hearty 

congratulations  to  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as 
President of the General Assembly at this session. May 
I also use this opportunity to express our sincere thanks 
to  your  predecessor,  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss,  for  the  able 
manner  in  which  he  presided  over  the  sixty-fifth 
session. 

Ghana  joins  the  rest  of  the  world  in  welcoming 
our  sister  country,  South  Sudan,  to  the  family  of  the 
United  Nations.  It  is  our  fervent  hope  that  South 
Sudan, having taken its rightful place in this body, will 
grow  and  prosper.  We  also  want  to  congratulate  the 
Secretary-General on his appointment to a second term. 
It is a clear manifestation of his excellent performance 
during his first term. 
for 
that  regular 
the  ongoing 
to  emphasize 

It  is  a  long-established  fact  that  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding  activities  have 
contributed immensely to the Organization’s efforts for 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security 
over the years. We observe, however, that this activity 
continues  to  take  on  complex  dimensions  that  require 
long-term  planning  and  urgent  reforms  in  order  to 
enable the United Nations to tackle the challenges that 
crop up.  
It  is  in  this  connection  that  Ghana  reaffirms  its 

reform  agenda  being 
support 
undertaken by the United Nations in consultation with 
the troop- and police-contributing countries. However, 
we  do  want 
tripartite 
consultations  are  needed  among  the  United  Nations, 
the Secretariat, the Security Council and the troop- and 
police-contributing countries. 

As  one  of  the  top  contributors  of  police  and 
troops  to  United  Nations  activities,  Ghana  remains 
unwavering  in  its  commitment  to  the  ideals  and 
objectives  of  the  United  Nations. Accordingly,  I  want 
to assure Members that as long as financial, human and 
material  capacities  exist  at  the  national  level,  Ghana 
will  continue  to  provide  troops  and  police  personnel 
for United Nations operations.  

But  it  is  important  that  the  burden  and  costs  to 
the  United  Nations  of  these  activities  be  equitably 
shared  among  Member  States. We  think  that  countries 
such as Ghana that provide troops and police personnel 
for  these  operations  must  be  financially  supported  by 
donor  countries  in  a  timely  manner.  We  are  aware  of 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-51185 (E) 
*1151185* 


to 
that 
sacrifice  while 
the  United  Nations  so 
A/66/PV.19 

the financial constraints existing at all national levels, 
but we want to encourage Member States to meet their 
obligations 
the 
Organization can execute its mandate. 

Allow  me  to  pay  tribute  to  all  United  Nations 
personnel  —  including  those  from  my  own  country, 
Ghana  —  who  in  the  course  of  the  year  made  the 
ultimate 
on  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  missions.  May  their  souls  rest  in  peace 
and their sacrifice be cherished and remembered. 
Another  issue  that  we  are  following  with  keen 

interest  is  the  proposed  arms  trade  treaty.  Ghana  fully 
supports  this  and  thinks  it  is  necessary.  Hence  our 
satisfaction thus far with the outcomes of the meetings 
of  the  Preparatory  Committee  for  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty  held  in  New 
York last year and in February and March this year.  

As  a  nation,  we  consider  a  strong  and  effective 
arms  trade  treaty  to  be  an  indispensable  step  in 
preventing the flow of arms to destinations where they 
can  cause  mayhem  and  wreak  havoc  by  fuelling 
conflicts  that  may  in  turn  undermine  national  and 
regional  peace, 
and  development,  or 
exacerbate  tensions  that  in  the  long  run  may  create 
situations that need the deployment of  United Nations 
peacekeepers.  
For  developing  countries  such  as  Ghana,  the 

illicit  proliferation  of  small  arms  and  light  weapons 
and  other  conventional  weaponry  continues  to  pose  a 
serious  threat  to  our  national  security  and  to  our 
socio-economic  and  political  stability,  given 
the 
linkage  to  other  crimes  such  as  terrorism,  organized 
crime,  drug  trading  and  indeed  human  trafficking, 
among  others.  It  is  therefore  imperative  that  the 
remaining  meetings  of 
treaty 
Preparatory  Committee  produce  proposals  that  would 
close  the  loopholes  that  allow  the  flow  of  these 
weapons from legitimate to illicit markets. 
significant 

reached  a 
milestone with the launch of UN-Women — the United 
Nations  Entity 
the 
Empowerment  of  Women.  It  is  critical  as  member 
States  of  the  international  community  that  we  break 
gender stereotypes, which after all are the root cause of 
the  myriad  of  gender-inequality  challenges  facing  us 
throughout  the  world.  Ghana’s  efforts  are  focused  on 
addressing gender imbalances and misconceptions and 
on improving the living conditions of women and girls, 
for  Gender  Equality 
The  United  Nations 
security 
the  arms 
trade 
and 
bearing  in  mind  that  in  solving  the  gender  issue  we 
would be taking concrete steps towards the attainment 
of a majority of the Millennium Development Goals. It 
is  our  expectation  that  the  objectives  of  UN-Women 
will be met. 

On  the  occasion  of  the  High-level  Meeting  to 
commemorate  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  Durban 
Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action,  Ghana 
recognizes the progress so far made in this area by the 
opportunity  given  to  Member  States  to  reaffirm  and 
strengthen their political commitment to the prevention 
of and fight against racism and racial discrimination in 
all  its  forms.  We  are  confident  that  the  effective 
implementation  of  the  outcome  policy  (see  resolution 
66/3) will indeed ensure the enjoyment of human rights 
and fundamental freedoms by all, including the victims 
of  racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia  and 
related intolerance, in all societies. 

It  is  noteworthy  that  the  High-level  Meeting  of 
the General Assembly on the Prevention and Control of 
Non-communicable Diseases focused on the developmental 
drawbacks  and  socio-economic  impact  on  developing 
countries where the relevant facilities are not available. 
Indeed,  we  are  of  the  opinion  that  the  effective 
prevention  and  control  of  non-communicable  diseases 
not  only  helps  to  reduce  poverty  but  also  decreases 
health-care  costs,  thereby  improving  productivity  and 
ultimately helping with rapid economic development.  

Efforts  in  Ghana  to  improve  the  health-care 
system  include  the  completion  of  the  health-care 
infrastructure  in  several  parts  of  the  country,  the 
scaling-up of the National Ambulance Service to cover 
all  districts  and  the  training  of  emergency  medical 
technicians.  We  have  re-engineered  our  policies  in 
order to give more meaning to health-care delivery. 

the 
contribution of youth to nation-building and the growth 
and  sustenance  of  our  democracy. We  believe  that  the 
adoption  of  the  political  declaration  urging  Member 
States  to  adopt  comprehensive  plans  and  measures  to 
give  meaning  to  youth  development  is  commendable, 
especially since this is the International Year of Youth. 
In  Ghana  we  are  implementing  policies  that  are 
intended to situate young men and women in the centre 
of nation-building.  

One  of  the  main  reasons  for  our  relentless  fight 
against drug trafficking is to ensure that we secure the 
future  of  our  young  men  and  women,  who,  after  all, 
appreciates 
recognizes 
Ghana 
and 
2 

11-51185 
them 
trees, 
change 
turning 
Climate 
defining 


will  be  the  future  leaders  of  our  dear  nations.  As  we 
continue  to  invest  heavily  in  our  youth  by  expanding 
educational  opportunities  and  making  it  possible  for 
the  disadvantaged  to  have  access  to  formal  schooling, 
we  believe  we  are  laying  the  right  foundation.  The 
provision of free school uniforms, free exercise books 
and the elimination of more than one thousand schools 
under 
into  brick-and-mortar 
structures, 
should  be  ample  evidence  of  our 
determination to brighten the future of youth. Certainly 
Ghana’s  oil  and  gas  find  should  present  us  with  a 
greater  opportunity  to  create  the  conditions  under 
which  we  will  be  able  to  create  more  jobs  to  solve 
youth unemployment in our country. 

human 
development  challenge  of  the  twenty-first  century  and 
one  of  the  greatest  threats  to  sustainable  development 
in Africa. Although  as  a  continent  we  contribute  only 
4 per cent of worldwide greenhouse gas emissions, we 
are  the  most  vulnerable  when  it  comes  to  climate 
change.  Therefore  urgent  and  concerted  action  is 
needed  to  enable  us  to  maximize  the  opportunity  that 
climate change offers. 
We  believe  that  with  the  right  investments  in 

technology, 
the 
international  community and nation-States, we  will be 
able to unleash the potential of agriculture, harness the 
maximum benefit from water resources, expand access 
to modern energy sources, fight diseases and conserve 
tropical forests.  

the  climate  change 
negotiations  scheduled  for  Durban,  South Africa,  it  is 
our expectation that the critical political questions that 
could  not  be  answered  during  the  United  Nations 
Climate  Change  Conference  at  Cancún  will  be 
addressed.  With  regard  to  mitigation,  we  believe  that 
we  need  political  commitment,  a  high  sense  of 
flexibility  and  strong  leadership  to  ensure  that  at  the 
Durban  Conference  the  second  round  of  commitments 
under  the  Kyoto  Protocol  will  be  addressed  or  some 
transitional arrangement made.  

Again  with  regard  to  mitigation,  we  believe  that 
all  pledged  commitments  and  actions  should  be 
quantified, monitored and verified by the international 
community.  We  commend  the  obvious  progress  made 
in  the  design  of  the  institutions  of  adaptation,  such  as 
the Green Climate Fund. What remains to be done is to 
determine the sources of funding for the Fund and also 
As  we  move  closer 
infrastructure  by 
institutions  and 
is 
the 
to 
A/66/PV.19
targeted  on  human 
to  empower  the  Conference  of  Parties  to  the  United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change to 
have control over the Green Climate Fund. 

On  the  political  and  security  fronts,  Ghana 
notices a paradigm shift, or at least a shift in emphasis, 
from national security to human security. We agree that 
interventions 
security  will 
eventually  define  our  national  security.  We  are 
therefore  implementing  measures  that  will  help  us 
make  this  concept  take  form  through  the  adoption  of 
the  necessary  legislative  measures,  institutions  and 
reforms. We  are  taking  steps  to  expand  our  adherence 
to  the  rule  of  law,  the  promotion  of  transparency  and 
good governance, the maintenance of the independence 
and  integrity  of  the  judiciary,  and  the  promotion  of  a 
free media. We also subscribe to the global norm of the 
responsibility to protect, and we promise to work hand 
in  glove  with  member  countries,  the  United  Nations 
and others to achieve this. 

A little over a year from now Ghana will be going 
to  the  polls  to  elect  a  President  and  Members  of 
Parliament  for  another  four  years.  To  ensure  that  the 
elections  are  free,  fair,  transparent  and  credible,  our 
Electoral Commission — which has successfully organized 
the last three elections, since the year 2000 — has put  in 
place  the  necessary  measures  to  enable  Ghanaians  to 
make 
free  atmosphere.  Our 
democratic  credentials  stand  tall,  and  we  would  not 
want  anything  to  affect  the  standard  that  we  have 
achieved. 

Just  as  the  United  Nations  and  the  rest  of  the 
international  community  kept  an  eye  on  the  2008 
elections  in  Ghana,  I  should  like  to  invite  you, 
Mr. President, and all others to come and do the same 
in  connection  with  the  2012  elections.  We  want  to 
make  sure  that  people  are  given  the  right  to  vote  and 
choose  their  own  leaders,  instead  of  having  leaders 
imposed  on  them  or  come  in  through  unauthorized 
means. 

total 
commitment  to  the  aims,  objectives  and  ideals  of  the 
United  Nations.  I  also  want  to  advocate  that  all 
Member  States  muster  the  necessary  political  will  to 
ensure 
functions  more 
that 
effectively.  
the  General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Ghana for the statement he has just made. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  United  Nations 
reaffirm  Ghana’s 
their  choices 
I  wish 
Finally, 
in  a 
to 
11-51185 

3 

Mr.  John  Evans  Atta  Mills,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Ghana,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
from 
A/66/PV.19 




in 
to  you 
Address by Mr. Jalal Talabani, President of the 
Republic of Iraq 
The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Iraq. 

Mr.  Jalal  Talabani,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Iraq,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jalal Talabani, 
President of the Republic of Iraq, and to invite him to 
address the Assembly. 
President Talabani (spoke in Arabic): Allow me 

at the outset to congratulate you, Sir, and our brothers, 
the people of Qatar, on your election to the presidency 
of the sixty-sixth session of the General Assembly. Our 
delegation  will  be  of  assistance 
the 
performance  of your duties, and we are confident that 
your  experience  and  wisdom  will  be  an  important 
factor  in  the  success  of  the  Assembly’s  work.  Our 
thanks  also  go  to  your  predecessor,  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss, 
for  his  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
outgoing  session.  I  should  also 
to  warmly 
congratulate the Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, 
on  his  appointment  to  a  second  term  and  wish  him 
every success in his work. 

It is an honour to stand in front of the Assembly 
one  more  time  to  brief  members  on  the  most  notable 
developments  that  Iraq  is  witnessing  as  it  works  on 
building a modern State that lives in peace and security 
with  its  people  and  its  neighbours.  Iraq  is  building  a 
homeland  where  everyone  lives  in  peace  and  stability 
regardless  of  sectarian,  ethnic  or  factional  affiliations; 
a  system  where  the  rule  of  law  prevails  and  human 
rights  are  respected;  and  a  system  that  is  based  on 
democracy and the peaceful alternation of power. That 
is  the  basis  for  the  path  on  which  we  have  embarked 
and are continually implementing.  

The  events  currently  taking  place  in  the  Arab 
region  have  proved  the  rightness  of  the  path  that  we 
have been following. The values of change and reform, 
which Iraq has called and will continue to call for, have 
like 
4 

become an essential part of the aspirations of the Arab 
people for freedom and for their ability to choose their 
own  political  system  on  the  basis  of  democracy  and 
human rights.  

We  have  come  a  long  way  in  building  our 
political  system,  which  is  based  on  the  National 
Collaboration  Government.  Iraq  has  started  to  restore 
the elements of strength that were lost due to more than 
three  decades  of  internal  and  external  wars  conducted 
by the former dictatorship, due also to the international 
isolation and the sanctions that Iraq experienced and to 
the  collapse  of  security  institutions  and  outbreak  of 
sectarian  strife  that  threatened  its  national  existence 
after  the  collapse  of  the  former  regime.  We  began  to 
overcome  these  negative  elements  and  they  became 
history,  thanks  to  our  determination  and  steadfastness 
and  with  the  help  and  support  of  the  international 
community. 

With  regard  to  development,  having  witnessed 
the  big  improvement  in  security  in  Iraq,  we  are  still 
relying  on  the  five-year  plan  for  the  years  2010-2014 
announced  by  the  Iraqi  Government  on  4  April  2010 
and  on  the  licensing  rounds  held  between  Iraq  and 
major companies on oil and natural gas investments to 
improve  our  oil  industry.  That  was  done  to  turn  the 
wheels  of  development  and  push  the  economy  to 
advanced levels.  

It  is  expected  that  the  five-year  plan  that  has 
already  started  will  include  about  2,700  strategic 
projects in different sectors, with a cost of $186 billion. 
The  plan  would  provide  about  four  million 
job 
opportunities,  which  will  positively  deal  with  the 
unemployment problem in Iraq. It is hoped that by the 
end of this plan, the per capita income of Iraqi citizens 
will  have  increased  to  $8,000  annually  and  poverty 
levels will have decreased by 16 per cent. 

In  addition,  we  were  able  to  get  rid  of  the 
sanctions and restrictions imposed on Iraq as a result of 
the  invasion  of  Kuwait.  On  the  basis  of  Security 
Council  resolutions  1956  (2010),  1957  (2010)  and 
1958  (2010),  adopted  on  15  December  2010,  Iraq  has 
been freed completely from all the restrictions imposed 
on  it,  which  had  prevented  the  country  from  taking 
advantage of scientific and technological advances, and 
has gained sovereignty over its financial resources.  

After  that  important  stage  in  building  our  State, 
we  feel  that  we  are  taking  firm  steps  on  the  road  to 
democracy  and  development  and  that  we  are  opening 
11-51185 
to 
in 
electricity, 
investment 
towns  and 
in  Iraq.  Therefore, 
Iraqi  Kurdistan 
the 
has  witnessed 
fields  of  construction, 


the  doors 
the 
economic  policy  of  Iraq  is  essentially  based  on 
encouraging  investment  and  providing  the  appropriate 
legislative  environment  to  protect  investors  and  their 
capital  so  that  Iraq  can  become  a  safe  and  fertile 
investing  environment  in  many  essential  sectors,  such 
as  oil,  natural  gas, 
reconstruction, 
infrastructure  and  other  economic  sectors.  From  this 
rostrum  I  call  on  all  countries  to  open  collaboration 
channels  with  Iraq  in  the  field  of  investment  and  to 
take advantage of the available opportunities.  
important 

developments 
the 
economy, the culture and others. Thousands of villages 
that  were  destroyed  by  the  former  regime  have  been 
rebuilt.  Cities, 
roadways  have  been 
modernized. The  region  now  has  more  than  15  public 
and  private  universities  with  more 
than  100,000 
students, compared to the past when there was only one 
university with a few thousand students. 

At  the  end  of  this  year  the  United  States  forces 
will  withdraw,  according  to  the  agreement  signed 
between  the  two  countries  in  2008.  During  this  year, 
our  security  forces  have  shown  a  great  ability  to 
combat terrorism and provide security. These forces are 
capable  and  will  efficiently  fill  the  vacuum  that  the 
withdrawal of the United States forces will create. That 
will  promote  Iraqi  national  abilities  to  maintain  the 
gains achieved in the new Iraq.  

However,  the  need  will  push  the  Government  of 
Iraq to keep numbers of American experts and others in 
order  to  benefit  from  their  experience  in  the  fields  of 
training  and  capacity-building,  according  to  Iraq’s 
needs. On this occasion,  on behalf of the Government 
and people of Iraq, I should like to express our thanks 
and  appreciation  to  the  United  States,  other  friendly 
States and the United Nations that provided assistance 
and  support  to  the  Iraqi  people  and  Government  in 
order to enhance democracy and reconstruction.  

I avail myself of the opportunity of being here in 
New York to express to the people of New York and to 
all  Americans  feelings  of  sympathy  and  solidarity  on 
the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  terrorist  attacks  on 
11 September. 

regional 
relations,  the  Constitution  of  Iraq  and  the  national 
programme of the current Iraqi Government determine 
the  general  foundations  for  our  foreign  policy.  They 
international  and 
Regarding 
Iraq’s 
11-51185 

A/66/PV.19
provide that Iraq is a founding and effective member of 
the  League  of  Arab  States  and  is  committed  to  its 
Charter. Iraq is also a member of the Islamic world. On 
this  basis  Iraq  is  working  to  host  the Arab  summit  at 
the end of March 2012.  

Moreover,  Iraq  respects  the  principles  of  good 
neighbourliness  and  is  committed  to  non-interference 
in the internal affairs of other States. It seeks to solve 
disputes by peaceful means, establishes its relations on 
the  basis  of  common  interests  and  reciprocity,  and 
respects  its  international  obligations.  That  is  why  we 
invite  our  two  neighbours,  Turkey  and  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran,  to  resort  to  diplomacy  and  positive 
dialogue  in  order  to  solve  the  issues  and  to  stop 
bombing  Iraqi  territories  in  the  Kurdistan  region, 
which  is  causing  many  innocent  civilian  victims.  I 
avail myself of this opportunity to thank His Holiness 
Khamenei of the Islamic Republic of Iran for releasing 
the two American prisoners in Iran. 

With  regard  to  our  obligations  to  disarmament 
and  nuclear  non-proliferation,  the  Constitution  of  Iraq 
Iraq 
was  clear 
concerning 
the  Iraqi 
Constitution provides that 

in  determining 
this 
issue.  Article  9  E  of 
the  position  of 
Iraqi  Government  shall 
international 
respect  and 
“The 
implement 
obligations 
regarding  the  non-proliferation,  non-development, 
non-production, 
nuclear, 
chemical,  and  biological  weapons,  and  shall 
prohibit 
equipment,  materiel, 
technologies, and delivery systems for use in the 
development,  manufacture,  production,  and  use 
of such weapons.” 
associated 
non-use 
Iraq’s 
and 
of 
On  this  clear  position  and  commitment  of  Iraq  to 
international  instruments  concerning  disarmament,  the 
Security  Council  on  15  December  2010  adopted 
resolution 1957 (2010), which lifted all restrictions that 
were imposed on Iraq.  
In this context we wish to confirm the legitimate 

right of States to the peaceful use of nuclear power and 
its  technologies  according  to  the  rules  and  provisions 
of  the  relevant  international  conventions.  This  right 
constitutes  one  of  the  foundations  of  the  disarmament 
system and non-proliferation. Within this approach and 
with regard to the nuclear issue concerning the Islamic 
Republic of Iran,  we believe in the legitimate right of 
States  to  use  nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes. 
That right is guaranteed by international instruments, at 
5 
in  particular 
the 
right 

is 
the  Treaty  on 
the 
to  achieve  full 
forefront  of  which 
A/66/PV.19 

the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons.  

We  affirm the importance  of reaching  a peaceful 
solution in dealing with this issue. Dialogue and  calm 
diplomacy are the best means to achieve that goal. On 
the  other  hand,  any  escalation  will  prejudice  the 
interests  of  all  parties  and  will  put  the  security  of  the 
region at great risk. 

Iraq is concerned about the tragic situation of the 
brotherly  Palestinian  people  as  a  result  of  Israeli 
practices,  which  are  incompatible  with  international 
laws, customs and international humanitarian law. Iraq 
is doing everything in its power to support the struggle 
of the Palestinian people to obtain all their inalienable 
rights, 
to  establish  an 
independent  State  in  its  homeland,  with  its  capital  in 
Jerusalem.  

In this regard, Iraq endorses and supports the path 
embarked  on  by  the  Palestinian Authority  to  come  to 
the  United  Nations 
international 
recognition  of  a  Palestinian  State  during  the  current 
session  of  the  General  Assembly.  Iraq  calls  on  the 
international community and all peace-loving forces to 
stand  by  the  Palestinian  people  in  their  legitimate 
struggle  to  achieve  their  goals  and  demands  that  the 
Israeli  Government  fully  withdraw  from  all  Arab 
territories  occupied  in  1967.  That  would  essentially 
contribute to the settlement of the Arab-Israeli conflict 
and bring a comprehensive and just peace to this vital 
region of the world.  
Making the Middle East an area free of weapons 

of mass destruction is crucial to achieve peace, security 
and stability. That requires Israel to join the Treaty on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  and  to  put 
its  nuclear 
the  comprehensive 
safeguards  system  of  the  International Atomic  Energy 
Agency. 

The  countries  of  the  Arab  world  are  witnessing 
significant  developments  and  unprecedented  reforms 
and  political  changes,  the  effects  of  which  will  be 
reflected  in  the  future  of  the  whole  region  and  will 
extend  to  areas  beyond.  Iraq,  as  an  early  actor  in 
initiating this change, supports the struggle of the Arab 
people of the region to gain their freedom, choose their 
political  systems  and  exercise  their  right  to  peaceful 
demonstrations  and  protests  in  the  so-called  Arab 
Spring. We  hope  that  these  changes  will  contribute  to 
regional  stability  and  security  and  avoid  anything  that 
facilities  under 
might  threaten  the  unity  and  sovereignty  of  the 
countries of the region or stir up strife or sectarian and 
ethnic conflicts. 

In the area of international cooperation, Iraq will 
work  to  promote  cooperation  with  all  countries  that 
stood  with  it  and  supported  it  in  the  stability  of  the 
ongoing  political  process,  in  strengthening  it  and  in 
reconstruction.  We  refer  here  to  the  United  States  of 
America and to the European Union. When we mention 
these  two  parties  we  mention  them  not  because  they 
are the only ones that stood with Iraq, but because we 
are  linked  by  mechanisms  of  action  that  should  be 
implemented. There are many other friends who stood 
with us in the difficult times that we have experienced, 
and  we  will  remember 
that  favour  and  develop 
relations of cooperation with them.  

After  the  withdrawal  of  the  United  States  forces 
from  Iraq  by  the  end  of  this  year,  we  will  work  to 
enhance  and  expand  the  scope  of  cooperation  on  the 
basis  of  the  strategic  framework  agreement  signed 
between  the  two  countries  in  2008. According  to  that 
agreement, relations will be for the long term and will 
cover all aspects of life.  
The  same  is  true  for  the  European  Union. After 

finishing 
the  Partnership  and 
Cooperation Agreement between Iraq and the European 
Union  and  its  possible  signing  in  the  near  future,  and 
signing  a  memorandum  of  understanding  on 
the 
strategic partnership in the field of energy between Iraq 
and  the  European  Union,  the  cooperation  between  the 
two parties will take a broader scope in various fields 
covered by those agreements.  

Our economic, commercial and political relations 
with the People’s Republic of China are expanding and 
improving.  Our  relations  with  neighbouring  Arab 
countries,  India  and  Pakistan,  are  also  constantly 
improving. 

the  United 
Nations, we will continue an approach of constructive 
cooperation  with  all  United  Nations  bodies,  in  the 
forefront  of  which  are  the  Security  Council  and  the 
Secretariat, and we will keep the commitments we have 
made.  

I  should  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express 
my appreciation for the efforts by Special Representative of 
the Secretary-General Mr. Ad Melkert throughout his time 
in  Iraq.  I  wish  him  and  his  family  success  and  good 
Regarding  our  relationship  with 
the  drafting  of 
6 

11-51185 


health.  I  welcome  the  new  representative  of  the 
Secretary-General. We will continue to cooperate with 
him in a way that will enable him to carry out his task 
in  accordance  with  Security  Council  resolution  1770 
(2007) and subsequent resolutions.  

The  United  Nations  Assistance  Mission  for  Iraq 
will  receive  all  forms  of  support  and  assistance  from 
us, in particular during the next phase, and we will do 
our  utmost  to  provide  the  necessary  protection  for  its 
staff and premises. 
We  look  forward  with  confidence  and  optimism 

to  the  future.  Iraq  is  an  emerging  democracy  and  a 
country brimming with a wealth of natural and human 
resources.  We  are  working  to  make  it  an  important 
factor in regional stability, security and prosperity and 
a  living  example  of  democracy,  federalism  and  the 
voluntary coexistence of different ethnic and sectarian 
groups and communities.  
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the Republic of Iraq for the statement he has just made. 
Mr.  Jalal  Talabani,  President  of  the  Republic  of 

Iraq,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 


The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
Address by Mr. Václav Klaus, President of the 
Czech Republic 

address by the President of the Czech Republic. 

the  Czech 
Mr.  Václav  Klaus,  President  of 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Václav Klaus, President of 
the  Czech  Republic,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly. 
President  Klaus: Allow  me  to  congratulate  you, 

Sir, on your election to the very important post of the 
highest  representative  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-sixth session. 

A  few  days  ago  New  York  City  and  the  entire 
world  remembered  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  tragic 
events  of  11  September.  I  should  like  to  use  this 
opportunity to pay homage to all the victims and to the 
firefighters  and  other  rescue  workers  who  died  in 
A/66/PV.19
ago 
the 
years 
dissolution 
connection with the 2001 attacks. We should not forget 
them. 

The  main  topic  suggested  for  the  sixty-sixth 
session  —  the  mediation  of  disputes  by  peaceful 
means —  is  at  the  very  core  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter, and I can assure members it is also at the core 
of  the  foreign  policy  principles  of  the  country  I  have 
the privilege to represent, the Czech Republic.  

Mr.  Bowler  (Malawi),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
Nineteen 

of 
Czechoslovakia was negotiated peacefully from within, 
without  any  need 
for  external  mediation.  Our 
experience  tells  us  that  if  a  solution  to  any  country’s 
aspirations to sovereignty and freedom, or a solution to 
a  dispute  among  countries,  is  to  be  lasting  and 
acceptable  for  the  citizens  of  those  countries,  that 
solution  must  primarily  come  from  within  the  region 
itself  and  from  the  negotiations  of  the  countries 
concerned.  In  the  same  spirit,  the  Czech  Republic  is 
convinced,  with  regard  to  the  most  important  issue  of 
this  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  that  it  is 
necessary  for  the  two  sides  in  the  Israeli-Palestinian 
dispute to find a way forward themselves.  

I  agree  with  President  Obama  that  there  is  no 
shortcut  to  ending  a  conflict  that  has  endured  for 
decades.  It  requires  that  both  sides  take  an  innovative 
approach  and overcome some old, inflexible and  rigid 
schemes of thought. It requires both sides to negotiate 
and  to  find  a  balanced  solution  that  will  last.  Such  a 
solution  cannot  come  through  unilateral  steps,  neither 
those forced by the United Nations nor the steps taken 
by one side of the dispute only.  

The  Czech  Republic  successfully  completed  the 
transition  from  communism  to  democracy,  and,  based 
on  that  experience,  we  wish  the  countries  of  North 
Africa  to  make  progress  in  the  same  direction.  We 
know it is not an easy path. To remove several leading 
politicians is not the crucial aspect of the much-needed 
systemic change.  

When  the  Iron  Curtain  fell  in  Europe  more  than 
20  years  ago,  I  used  to  talk  about  three  mutually 
interconnected 
successful 
transformation:  a  clear  and  transparent  concept  of 
where to go, a feasible strategy how to get there, and to 
be  able  to  motivate  the  citizens  of  the  country  to 
preconditions 
for 
11-51185 

7 

A/66/PV.19 

promote  it.  I  still  do  not  see  these  preconditions  in 
some of the countries of North Africa.  

By saying that, I want to stress that the systemic 
change  cannot  be  agreed  upon  or  prearranged  at 
international  conferences.  It  cannot  be  mediated  or 
passively  acquired  as  a  foreign  investment.  It  is  a 
domestic  task  and  a  sequence  of  policies,  not  a  once-
for-all policy change.  

There is something we  can do, however. We  can 
and  should  increase  our  efforts  to  cooperate  with  the 
countries  of  North  Africa.  We  should  not  forget  that 
there is a complementarity between freedom and trade. 
Our relations — and now  I speak  especially about us, 
the  European  Union  member  States  —  with  the 
countries  of  North  Africa  should  be  based  on  free 
trade,  which  means  on  trade  with  a  minimum  of 
regulation  and  arbitrary  standards.  Prosperity  in  the 
countries of North Africa is a guarantee of stability and 
is also a precondition for preventing growing migration 
to the countries in Southern and Western Europe. 

I should also like to mention another issue that I 
see  as  crucial,  that  of  nuclear  energy.  I  welcome  the 
fact  that  the  Secretary-General  called  for  a  special 
meeting  on  this  topic.  The  Czech  Republic  pays  the 
highest possible attention to nuclear safety and security 
and  supports  the  further  development  of  nuclear 
energy.  

What happened in Japan in March this year was a 
serious  natural  catastrophe,  and  there  are  certainly 
lessons  to  be  learned  from  it.  The  main  lesson  is 
obvious.  Even  coastal  locations,  which  are  seen  as 
seismically  stable  for  urban  planning,  can  be  affected 
by earthquakes far away under the sea. Nuclear power 
plants  should  be  built  in  locations  that  are  the  least 
prone  to  damage  by  natural  disasters.  Yet  after  the 
tsunami  hit 
the  Fukushima  power  plant,  some 
Governments  decided  not  to  build  new  nuclear  power 
plants  and  some  even  to  abandon  nuclear  energy  as 
such.  

Speaking  for  the  Czech  Republic,  we  consider 
that what happened in Fukushima did not by any means 
question  the  arguments  for  nuclear  energy.  These 
arguments  are  strong,  economically  rational  and 
convincing.  Nuclear  power  is  a  stable,  legitimate  and, 
in  some  countries,  irreplaceable  source  of  energy 
today. 
This  year 
the  Czech  Republic  holds 

Let  me  conclude  by  saying  that  the  Czech 
Republic continues to support the much-needed reform 
of  the  Security  Council.  The  world  has  changed 
considerably  since  the  United  Nations  Charter  was 
signed. New countries must take greater responsibility 
for this Organization and for its financing.  

the 
presidency  of  the  Executive  Board  of  the  United 
Nations  Development  Programme,  which  supports 
projects  in  177  countries. We  support  that  Programme 
but want to stress that in order for developing countries 
to develop, all kinds of unnecessary barriers, standards, 
regulations  and  other  constraints  in  the  developed 
world must first be removed.  

I  wish  the  President  every  success  in  his  office 
and  assure  him  that  the  Czech  Republic  will  continue 
to be an active Member of the United Nations.  
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Czech 
Republic for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Václav  Klaus,  President  of 
Republic,  was  escorted 
Assembly Hall. 
from 
the  Czech 
the  General 


The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
Address by Mr. Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov, 
President of Turkmenistan 

hear an address by the President of Turkmenistan. 

Mr.  Gurbanguly  Berdimuhamedov,  President  of 
Turkmenistan,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov, 
President of Turkmenistan, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly. 
President Berdimuhamedov (spoke in Russian): 

I  sincerely  greet  all  gathered  here  and  offer 
congratulations  on  the  opening  of  the  sixty-sixth 
session  of  the  General  Assembly.  I  congratulate  His 
Excellency Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser on his election 
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  this  session 
and  express  confidence  that  the  Assembly  under  his 
leadership will work successfully and fruitfully. 
Allow  me  to  convey  my  gratitude  to  Mr.  Joseph 

Deiss,  President  at  the  sixty-fifth  session,  for  his 
8 

11-51185 
I  should  also 
like  once  again 


effective activity in this post. In availing myself of this 
opportunity 
to 
congratulate Mr. Ban Ki-moon on his reappointment to 
the  post  of  Secretary-General  and  wish  him  great 
success. 

As in past years, this forum is the continuation of 
the  process  of  forming  suitable  approaches  to  the 
complex  phenomena  of  the  modern  world  —  in  other 
words,  a  search  for  appropriate  answers  to  questions 
having global significance. It becomes more and more 
evident  that  there  is  a  demand  for  systemic  measures 
based  on  a  clear  definition  of  goals,  a  vision  of  their 
possible  implementation  and  a  choice  of  effective 
international mechanisms.  

Turkmenistan  formulates  these  goals  as  follows: 
peace  through  development.  Today  these  concepts 
cannot be considered separately. The direct connection 
between peace and development is exactly what opens 
wide possibilities for the consolidation of political will 
and  the  intellectual  and  material  resources  of  the 
community  of  nations.  That  is  important  in  order  to 
establish  sustainable,  stable  and,  at  the  same  time, 
flexible  and  balanced  modern  systems  of  international 
ties  in  politics,  economics  and  in  the  humanitarian 
sphere.  

We  are  convinced  that  this  large-scale  issue  and 
the  responsibility  for  its  implementation  lie  first  and 
foremost  with  the  United  Nations.  Turkmenistan  acts 
accordingly  in  forming  its  approaches  to  the  issues  of 
achieving a firm peace and security, implementing the 
development 
humanitarian 
cooperation.  

Considering  that  a  fundamental  condition  for 
ensuring  long-term  peace  and  strategic  stability  is  to 
efficiently  abide  by 
the  United  Nations  Charter, 
Turkmenistan  pursues  a  steady  and  purposeful  policy 
of  peace  and  good-neighbourliness  and  actively 
encourages  peaceful  processes.  We  absolutely  reject 
military  force  as  an  instrument  of  foreign  policy  and 
intergovernmental  relations.  We  believe  that  solutions 
through armed force do not offer prospects for success, 
do not eliminate sources of and reasons for clashes or 
contradictions,  and 
in  most  cases  do  not  create 
conditions  for  supplying  appropriate  answers  to  many 
questions that arise in post-conflict periods.  

Turkmenistan  attaches  paramount  importance  to 
the  settlement  of  any  situation  by  peaceful  means  and 
methods. In that connection and in compliance with the 
goals 
and 
realizing 
11-51185 

A/66/PV.19
fundamental  documents  of  the  United  Nations,  we 
suggest  that  at  this  session  the  Assembly  start  to 
develop  a  declaration  on  the  critical  introduction  of 
political  and  diplomatic  tools  for  the  resolution  of 
international 
issues,  with  further  consideration  at 
subsequent sessions. To our way of thinking, adopting 
such  a  declaration  would  allow  for  a  considerable 
decrease  in  the  probability  of  the  use  of  force  to 
resolve clashes in intergovernmental relations. It would 
help  to  reduce  the  risks  concerned  and  threats  to 
general stability and security.  

At the regional level, we have proposed a number 
of  initiatives  on  maintaining  peace  and  stability  in 
Central Asia and in the Caspian basin. These initiatives 
were welcomed positively. In our opinion, the next step 
must  be  taken,  namely,  to  arrange  a  representative 
forum on security in Central Asia and the Caspian Sea 
region.  Turkmenistan  suggests  hosting  this  event  next 
year. We believe that the establishment of an advisory 
council  on  peaceful  development  in  Central  Asia  and 
the  Caspian  Sea  region  may  emerge  as  one  of  the 
political outcomes of that forum. 

In talking of the necessity to ensure security on a 
global  scale,  we  do  not  mean  only  its  political 
component.  Global  security 
is  considered  as  a 
comprehensive  whole,  based  on  indivisibility  and  a 
whole  range  of  key  factors  that  define  the  vectors  of 
today’s  worldwide  development.  That  involves  the 
solution  of  economic,  energy,  ecological,  food  and 
humanitarian issues.  

Today it is obvious that global security cannot be 
provided  unless  peace  and  consent  at  national  and 
regional  levels  are  reached.  Therefore  Turkmenistan 
aims  its  efforts  at  the  maximum  promotion  of  the 
processes  of  sustainable  development,  attaining  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  creating  efficient 
models of multilateral reciprocal action for the solution 
of urgent international issues.  

A  reliable  and  stable  transit  of  energy  resources 
on the international market is one of the issues at hand. 
Our proposals on the matter received support from the 
world  community  and  were  reflected 
in  General 
Assembly resolution 63/210, adopted in 2008. I believe 
that  the  time  has  come  to  start  developing  concrete 
measures on the resolution of energy transport issues. 

With a view to joining the efforts of the Member 
States that are taking an active part in the development 
of  an  international  legal  foundation  in  the  sphere  of 
9 

A/66/PV.19 

energy supply, Turkmenistan considers it appropriate to 
create  a  new  mechanism,  transparent  and  open  to  all: 
an interregional energy dialogue under the aegis of the 
United Nations, supposing that the Organization would 
actively  promote  establishment  of  an  essential  format 
of cooperation. We see the States of Central and South 
Asia,  the  Caspian,  the  Black  Sea  and  Baltic  regions, 
Russia, China, the European Union and the countries of 
the Middle and Near East — all States, companies and 
international  financial  institutions  concerned  —  being 
among its participants. The acknowledgment by United 
Nations  Member  States  of  the  general  nature  of  the 
long-term  goals  of  development  and  a  readiness  to 
achieve  their  implementation  jointly  act  today  as 
determining factors for the sustainability of the global 
economic system. 

The  serious  effects  of  the  worldwide  financial 
and  economic  crisis  have  clearly  demonstrated  once 
again  the  need  to  unite  efforts  to  form  viable  models 
and realistic  plans, taking  account of the interests and 
needs of all States of the world. Turkmenistan will take 
an active part in this process and will contribute to the 
exchange  of  successful  experiences  gained  by  our 
country on a number of fronts involving economic and 
social development.  

We  are  ready  to  do  this  through  the  relevant 
United Nations structures, first of all the Economic and 
Social Council. Our country submits its candidature for 
membership  in  that  authoritative  body  for  the  term  of 
2013-2015. We are preparing for the work in this body, 
and,  if  elected,  Turkmenistan  will  spare  no  efforts  to 
successfully implement the tasks entrusted. 

Turkmenistan  will  also  take  part  in  the  Rio+20 
Earth Summit in 2012. We see it as a landmark event in 
the  process  of  making  progress  towards  sustainable 
development  objectives.  We  intend  to  announce  a 
number of specific proposals at that forum.  

With regard to maintaining sustainable economic 
growth, I should like to dwell on a crucial component, 
namely, 
transport 
the 
infrastructure.  

Over the years our country, together with partners 
in  the  region,  has  been  actively  working  on  the 
implementation  of  major  projects  to  optimize  traffic 
flow  in  the  Eurasian  sphere. We  believe  this  is  a  very 
promising  area,  given  the  huge  potential  of  the  north-
south and east-west corridors. It is important that those 
corridors,  which  could  give  a  powerful  impetus  to 
creation  of 
a  modern 
to 
a 
the 
the 
forward 
continuing 
establishment  of 
economic  development  and 
trade  relations  on  a 
continental  scale,  be  used  effectively.  We  believe  that 
the  United  Nations  could  play  an  important  role  in 
coordinating 
international 
cooperation in the field of transport.  

In  that  regard,  Turkmenistan  suggests  that  there 
be  an  initiative,  during  the  current  session,  to  start 
developing a United Nations special programme on the 
development of transport, including the study of transit 
and  transport  opportunities  between  the  Caspian  and 
Black  Seas  and  between  Central Asia  and  the  Middle 
East. 

Turkmenistan sees the environmental sphere as a 
key  area  for  international  cooperation.  We  respect  the 
initiatives  and  decisions  taken  at  the  summits  on 
climate  change  in  Copenhagen  and  Cancun.  We  are 
looking 
constructive 
international  dialogue  on  this  issue  in  November  this 
year at the meeting in Durban. We are convinced of the 
need to join efforts in this field at the global, regional 
and  national  levels  and  to  coordinate  the  actions  of 
each United Nations Member State. In that connection 
I  should  like  to  emphasize  that  Turkmenistan  is 
currently  preparing  an  extensive  document, 
the 
National  Strategy  on  Climate  Change.  After 
the 
adoption of the Strategy we will be ready to submit it 
to 
relevant  United  Nations  agencies  as  a 
contribution  to  our  common  work.  We  believe  that  it 
will  be  possible,  during  the  current  session  and  in  the 
context  of  closer  multilateral  cooperation,  to  start 
establishing  systemic  machinery  in  this  area.  To  that 
end, Turkmenistan  proposes  establishing  a  specialized 
institution — a United Nations interregional centre on 
development  and  issues  related  to  climate  change. We 
are  willing  to  provide  for  its  functioning  with  all  the 
necessary infrastructure in the capital of Turkmenistan, 
Ashgabat. 

A  most  important  question  that  goes  far  beyond 
regional boundaries is the environment of the Caspian 
Sea.  Here  we  are  also  convinced  of  the  need  to  give 
specific content to international efforts to preserve the 
unique  natural  resources  of  the  Caspian  Sea.  In  that 
regard we propose organizing a Caspian environmental 
forum as a permanent body to deal with environmental 
issues  in  the  Caspian  basin,  as  well  as  to  make 
appropriate proposals and recommendations. 

Achieving  sustainable  development  is  directly 
related to the resolution of humanitarian issues, support 
10 

11-51185 
The  challenges  facing 


for  natural  human  rights,  and  opportunities  for 
individuals  to  achieve  personal  fulfilment  and  for 
people to lead valuable lives. In that regard our country 
will  continue  its  cooperation  with  United  Nations 
humanitarian  bodies  for  further  implementation  of 
United  Nations  conventions  in  the  field  of  human 
rights.  As  a  permanent  member  of  the  Executive 
Committee of the Office of the High Commissioner for 
Refugees 
(UNHCR),  Turkmenistan  will  actively 
promote  the  implementation  of  practical  measures 
aimed  at  protecting  and  supporting  refugees. We  have 
found it useful, in working with UNHCR, to study our 
experience  in  granting  citizenship  to  refugees  and 
stateless persons and to organize, in that connection, an 
international  meeting  involving  all  stake-holders  in 
Ashgabat in 2012. 

the  Organization  are 
complex  and  ambitious,  but  they  are  realistic  and 
achievable because we have a common goal, namely, to 
make the world a better, fairer and more humane place. 
We  are  united  by  common  values  and  shared 
responsibility. We are united in our endeavour to move 
forward. We rely on the vast experience gained by the 
United Nations over the decades, as well as on the will, 
intellect and wisdom of the community of nations. All 
of this will determine the extent of our overall success. 
Today each country makes its own unique contribution 
to  the  development  and  progress  of  mankind.  This 
opens  up  enormous  opportunities  for  creating  and 
implementing  new  ideas,  for  developing  innovative 
models of cooperation to address key issues in modern 
times. Turkmenistan  is  ready  to  take  an  active  part  in 
this activity, firmly following a strategic course aimed 
at  close  and  comprehensive  cooperation  with  the 
United Nations. 

Assembly, 
Turkmenistan for the statement he has just made. 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 
the  President  of 
Mr.  Gurbanguly  Berdimuhamedov,  President  of 
Turkmenistan,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
I  wish 
thank 
to 


Address by Mr. Carlos Mauricio Funes Cartagena, 
President of the Republic of El Salvador 

The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the Republic of El 
Salvador. 
A/66/PV.19

the  specific  questions  of 
towards  something  new,  even 
Mr. Carlos Mauricio Funes Cartagena, President 
of the Republic of El Salvador, was escorted into 
the General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Carlos  Mauricio  Funes 
Cartagena,  President  of  the  Republic  of  El  Salvador, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Funes  Cartagena  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

This  new  session  of  the  Assembly  of  the  United 
Nations  brings  us  together  at  what  is  no  doubt  an 
historic  time  of  great  importance,  as  has  been  said  in 
one  way  or  another  by  the  various  leaders  who  have 
preceded me at this rostrum. These are certainly critical 
times that should lead us to adopt an attitude that goes 
beyond  addressing 
the 
moment,  because  this  is  a  moment  of  change  in  the 
history  of  humankind.  On  the  economic,  social  and 
geopolitical  levels  there  are  many  signs  indeed  that 
show  us  that  the  world  is  changing  and  that  the 
transition 
if  still 
undefined,  is  already  under  way  and  will  follow  its 
course, whether we are able to understand it or not.  

is  why  our  peoples  desire  political 
leadership  that  is  able  to  respond  to  this  time  of 
uncertainty.  Our  societies  demand  of  us  that  we  be 
able,  first  of  all,  to  understand  and  explain  to  them 
what  is  really  going  on.  They  also  demand  of  us  that 
we  listen  to  their  needs  and  satisfy  those  needs  and, 
above all, that we reach a new international consensus 
in order to make that necessary qualitative global leap 
in order to achieve a planet of greater justice, stability 
and safety.  

This  is,  therefore,  an  opportunity  to  reconsider 
our policies, to review and change paradigms that seem 
to  be  frozen,  to  renew  the  international  debate  and  to 
be  ambitious  in  our  aspirations  as  a  global  society. 
Members  know  that  nothing  undermines  the  morale 
and  spirit  of  our  peoples  more  than  fear,  uncertainty 
and  distrust.  It  is  those  evils  that  are  affecting  our 
planet  currently.  We  are  suffering  from  fear  in  its 
various  guises.  Millions  of  demoralized,  unemployed 
people  live  in  daily  uncertainty,  not  knowing  whether 
there  is  a  future  for  them  and  their  children.  Entire 
countries  have  seen  their  economies  stumble  because 
of  that  lack  of  confidence.  Hundreds  of  thousands  of 
families every day face the fear that takes the form of 
political instability, natural disasters, the lack of urban 
That 
11-51185 

11 

and  development. 
their  historic  will 
A/66/PV.19 

safety, and poverty. All those people demand that their 
leaders give them the inspiration to overcome that fear, 
to  regain  a  sense  of  collective  self-esteem  and  to 
believe in a different and better future. That is the great 
historical  challenge 
that  we  must  shoulder  with 
responsibility and courage. 

We must forge a new international agreement that 
will  allow  us  to  overcome  such  fears  and  lack  of 
confidence  in  order  once  again  to  stride  forward. 
Therefore we must not allow that fear to be translated 
into 
timid  or  cowardly  political  and  economic 
decisions  that  would  deprive  us  of  an  opportunity  to 
undertake  the  changes  that  our  people  are  calling  for. 
We  must  not  betray 
for 
transformation 
It  would  be 
unpardonable,  unforgivable,  if  we  were  to  allow 
ourselves  to  be  lulled  by  old  political  and  economic 
dogma  and  continue  repeating  once  again  the  same 
mistakes, while overwhelming majorities in every city, 
in  every  State,  on  every  continent,  have  clearly 
expressed their desire for a new, audacious and creative 
policy. 

Over  the  past  30  years,  while  the  economy  has 
grown exponentially, so has the root cause of many of 
our  misfortunes,  and  here  I  am  referring  to  injustice. 
Daily  injustice  has  a  most  significant  effect  on  our 
peoples.  It  affects  their  options  for  health,  education 
and  social  development  in  very  tangible  ways.  That 
inequality has disastrous consequences, which has been 
tried, tested and understood by some of the wealthiest 
entrepreneurs, who are in favour of paying more taxes, 
as  they  are  aware  that  adopting  any  other  position 
would  sentence  us  to  a  harsh  future,  even  for  those 
living at ease.  

The  fight  against  poverty  and  inequality,  as  was 
recalled at the inaugural meeting of this session of the 
General  Assembly  by  the  President  of  Brazil,  Dilma 
Rousseff,  has  proven  to  be  the  strongest  economic 
policy in these difficult times. Therefore, it is time that 
we no longer see our future in terms of macroeconomic 
data  but  that  we  start  to  focus  our  political  debate  on 
our peoples’ needs and on social justice, which is what 
the  debate  should  always  have  focused  on. Any  other 
debate  would  be  sterile  and  would  only  lead  us  away 
from the common objective that should govern all our 
policies, namely, the objective of the common good. 

The  unstable  reality  that  we  have  experienced 
also  takes  the  form  of  conflicts  which,  increasingly, 
the  “international  community”  and  which 
call upon the indistinct arbiter, who goes by the name 
of 
is 
represented  here  in  the  General  Assembly  better  than 
anywhere  else.  In  that  regard  I  welcome  the  fact  that 
one  of  the  central  themes  of this  session  is  the  search 
for the peaceful settlement of conflicts and prevention 
strategies  to  cope  with  situations  of  instability.  This 
shows us that the arbiter is growing stronger, as are the 
possibilities  to  prevent  injustice  and  human  rights 
abuses wherever they occur. The United Nations arose 
out of the global desire to avoid a new major conflict, 
and that spirit of peace and harmony must continue to 
guide us in our actions, even when the conflicts that we 
face  currently  are  very  different  from  the  conflicts  of 
the  twentieth  century.  Indeed,  we  are  living  in  a  most 
diverse and complex world where there are no magical 
formulas  or  quick  fixes  but  common  responsibility, 
which  is  committed  to  finding  new  avenues  for 
peacemaking and justice extending beyond our national 
borders.  

That resolve must also translate into our quest for 
solutions to what is one of the oldest conflicts on this 
planet,  and  I  am  referring  here  to  the  Arab-Israeli 
conflict.  As  members  know,  my  country  recently 
decided  to  recognize  the  Palestinian  State.  This  in  no 
way seeks to undermine our good diplomatic relations 
with Israel. We are of the view that both peoples have 
the right and duty to coexist. Recognizing Palestine as 
a  new  State  within  the  United  Nations  is,  in  my 
opinion,  the  right  way  to  contribute  to  resolving  the 
conflict. With this firm belief we support all diplomatic 
efforts 
that  are  aimed  at  achieving  a  peaceful 
settlement  of  this  long-standing  conflict.  We  firmly 
believe that dialogue is the only possible solution, and 
our actions have always been guided by that principle. 

Now I should like to refer to the main enemy, not 
only of my country and Central America but of a large 
portion of the American continent. I am referring here, 
of course, to organized crime and drugs trafficking. As 
was  rightly  stated  by  President  Calderón  of  Mexico 
following the terrible attack that occurred in a casino in 
Monterrey,  we  are  facing  a  veritable  phenomenon  of 
terrorism  that  threatens  the  viability  of  our  countries, 
has  taken  more  lives  than  many  wars,  and  which 
endangers the present and future of our peoples. Many 
Latin  American  countries 
represented  here  have 
become,  against  their  will,  true  corridors  for  illegal 
increasingly 
trafficking, 
affected  by  violence,  with 
that  are 
thus  becoming  nations 
institutions 
12 

11-51185 
in 
that  are  operating 
to  corruption.  Because  of 


susceptible 
their  poor 
economies of scale, their lack of development and the 
weakness  of  their  productive  machinery  owing  to 
widespread poverty and high levels of inequality, poor 
States are threatened by this new form of terrorism that 
has  forged  a  strong  economic  network.  All  of  the 
cartels 
the  Mesoamerican 
region —  Mexico  and  Central  America  —  possess 
more money and influence than our countries do. 

It  is  true  to  say  that  we  are  the  true  victims  of 
organized  crime.  It  is  our  territories  and  peoples  that 
suffer from this violence and who weep for their dead. 
These  are  not  mere  empty  statements.  Studies  have 
shown  that  violence  and  crime  are  100  per  cent  more 
likely  in  regions  that  facilitate  illegal  trafficking  than 
anywhere  else  on 
the  planet.  Our  countries  are 
suffering  as  a  result  of  this.  El  Salvador  and  all  of 
Central America  are  undertaking  significant  efforts  to 
deal with this fact but the  figures are not on our side. 
We are speaking of a drug-trafficking route that moves 
$100  billion  a  year  and  which  leads  to  the  largest 
market in the world, as well as the largest consumer of 
these  substances,  the  United  States.  Consider  this: 
$100 billion  across  our 
territories  along  with  a 
veritable  arsenal  of  weapons  to  protect  this  amount. 
That means $100 billion dollars that can corrupt public 
and  private  officials,  destroy  our  social  fabric  and 
leave behind them a daily wake of chaos and death.  

How therefore can countries such as El Salvador 
with a gross domestic product of about $22 billion, or a 
country such as Honduras with roughly $15 billion, or 
Guatemala which barely reaches $40 billion, deal with 
this enemy?  Not even  a large  country such  as Mexico 
can successfully wage this battle on its own in dealing 
with  this  terrorist  strength.  It  is  not  scepticism  that 
leads me to speak this way but rather a sense of realism 
in  keeping  with  the  reality  experienced  by  Central 
American peoples on a daily basis. 

I wish to draw attention to this. The international 
community  must  understand  that  it  is  also  affected  by 
this  problem.  No  nation  on  this  planet  is  spared  this 
problem.  There  are  drug  users  in  every  nation  in  the 
world,  who  get  their  drugs  from  the  criminal  drug-
trafficking networks. That means that the fight against 
organized  crime  is  a  common  struggle  and,  in  that 
regard, I wish to make a special and hopeful call upon 
the  people  and  Government  of  the  United  States 
resolutely to lead us in this the good fight against drug-
trafficking  and  organized  crime.  I  believe  that  the 
A/66/PV.19
resolve. 
their  share  of 
It  must  make 
Government  of  the  United  States  must  lead  us  in  the 
struggle  with  great 
the 
commitment  and  apply  all  its  economic,  human, 
technological  and  political  resources  in  waging  the 
struggle, which is indeed the harshest war to affect our 
continent. 

The  violence  that  is  fuelled  by  drugs  trafficking 
and by its machinery of death has taken more lives in 
Mesoamerica  than  conflicts  that  occur  elsewhere  on 
this planet. That is why I wish to draw attention to and 
invite  all  Members  to  focus  on  this  shocking  fact. We 
require  the  firm  resolve  of  our  great  North American 
neighbour  in  order  to  strike  the  necessary  blows  to 
weaken  and  end  this  criminal  phenomenon.  Naturally, 
that  does  not  mean  that  our  countries  will  in  any  way 
shirk 
the  responsibility.  We  shall 
continue  to  strengthen  our  institutions,  to  reform  our 
security  forces,  to  strengthen  our  presence  on  the 
ground  in  order  to  protect  our  young  people  from 
criminal  gangs.  At  the  regional  level  we  are  working 
together  and  have  undertaken  significant  steps  in  a 
common  undertaking  by  sharing  strategies  and  tasks 
with Mexico, Colombia and the United States. 

Of course, these are truly difficult challenges that 
lie ahead. Many of these challenges were referred to by 
the  President  of  Mexico  —  the  fight  against  money-
laundering,  disarmament, 
an 
effective judiciary — and will require the reform of our 
judicial  organs. 
Inevitably,  organized  crime  has 
infiltrated  the  organs  of  the  State,  in  particular  the 
judiciary  and  the  police  forces.  That  is  why  we  must 
wage  a  strong  fight  in  order  to  clean  up  those 
institutions. 

But  the  consumer  countries,  in  this  case  chiefly 
the  United  States,  are  morally  responsible  in  this 
struggle  that  must  be  seen  not  only  as  a  criminal 
problem  but  also  as  a  matter  of  public  health.  While 
drugs  consumption  and  narcotics  use  grow, 
the 
business  of  drugs  trafficking  will  remain  powerful.  In 
short,  we  call  once  again  for  North  American 
leadership in this common struggle that we are waging 
alongside  Mexico,  Colombia  and  all  of  Central 
America.  

Struggles  such  as  these,  which  are  being  waged 
across  the  American  continent,  once  again  show  how 
important  it  is  to  have  a  strong  and  united  America. 
Unity  is  a  necessary  prerequisite  in  order  to  meet  our 
common goals. Given this need, I now wish to refer to 
crime  prevention, 
11-51185 

13 

A/66/PV.19 

the blockade against the Republic of Cuba. We believe 
that this blockade is an anachronism from a past page 
of  history  that  we  wish  to  turn  once  and  for  all. 
Essentially  a  blockade  against  Cuba  is  a  step  towards 
disunity. It is a stumbling block on the road of history 
that weakens us as a continent. 

At  the  start  of  my  statement  I  spoke  of  the 
leadership  that  our  peoples  expect  from  us  in  these 
difficult times, of the courage that we need in order to 
face the challenges that extend beyond our borders and 
also  of  this  great  opportunity  before  us  now.  Let  us 
show  that  leadership,  from  the  smallest  country,  such 
as  my  own,  to  the  great  Powers.  Let  us  show  an 
unequivocal  will  to  achieve  peace,  social  justice  and 
the well-being of the men and women who place their 
faith  in  us,  in  particular  in  times  such  as  these  when 
crisis once again threatens our peoples. Let us not fail 
them once more. We should not favour those in power 
who triggered the crisis but rather the weakest, who are 
affected by it. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of El Salvador for the statement he has just made. 

Mr. Carlos Mauricio Funes Cartagena, President 
of the Republic of El Salvador, was escorted from 
the General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Mahinda Rajapaksa, President of the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Democratic 
Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka. 

Mr.  Mahinda  Rajapaksa,  President  of 
the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mahinda  Rajapaksa, 
President  of  the  Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri 
Lanka, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Rajapaksa:  It  is  with  great  pleasure 

I  congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nassir 
that 
Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  on  his  assumption  of 
the 
presidency.  I  must  also  congratulate  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  warmly  on  his  reappointment  as 
Secretary-General  and  we  look  forward  to  working 
with him constructively.  
14 


As  we  gather  here  today,  it  is  appropriate  to 
reflect on the values and ideals that inspire the United 
Nations  system.  One  of  the  principal  attributes  is  the 
spirit of flexibility, which has always been a feature of 
the United Nations. We must acknowledge the need for 
that spirit of openness and adaptability today more than 
at  any  other  time.  That  is  because  the  foundations  of 
the world order are being transformed dramatically and 
fundamentally.  At  the  heart  of  those  changes  is  the 
need to protect the smaller countries in the developing 
world and to advance their interests vigorously.  

In the midst of uncertainty there are some things 
that  must  remain  constant.  They  reflect  our  most 
cherished  beliefs  and  convictions.  Despite  repeated 
references in this Assembly by many member countries 
to the right of the Palestinian people to a State of their 
own within secure borders, we still have not been able 
to  make  it  a  reality.  It  is  a  cause  of  profound 
disappointment that this has not yet happened. There is 
a window of opportunity now and we must make use of 
it  before  it  is  too  late.  It  is  time  for  decisive  action 
rather than more discussion. That will be in the interest 
of  the  security  and  well-being  of  the  entire  region, 
including Israel. 

The  need  for  sustained  support  for  the  countries 
of  the  African  continent  at  this  critical  time  is  also 
worthy of mention. It is important to remind ourselves 
that  every  country  cherishes  the  values,  traditions  and 
deeply  held  religious  convictions  it  has  nurtured  over 
the centuries. They cannot be diluted or distorted under 
the guise of human rights by the imposition of attitudes 
or approaches that are characteristics of alien cultures. 
If that were to be done, it would amount to a violation 
of human rights in a fundamental sense. It must also be 
pointed  out  that,  even  where  sanctions  are  imposed, 
extreme care has to be taken to ensure that the people 
at large, men, women and children yet to be born, are 
not harmed by such  action. I would also express once 
again my solidarity with the people of Cuba and wish 
them all success. 

While  the  clash  of  ideas,  opinions  and  values 
continues,  we  have  clearly  to  recognize  that  dialogue, 
deliberation and consensus offer the only viable means 
for  resolving  differences.  The  might  of  powerful 
nations  cannot  prevail  against  justice  and  fair  play.  In 
the  troubled  times  in  which  we  live  we  can  derive 
guidance from the wise words of Gautama the Buddha, 
who  advised  the  Lichchhavi  Princes,  whose  energies 
were  being  consumed  by  bitter  disputes  among  them, 
11-51185 
that 
standards 
inconsistent 
the  guise  of 
on 
legitimacy 


that  the  way  forward  consisted  of  meeting,  discussing 
and departing in an atmosphere of amity and goodwill. 
That  represents  the  essential  spirit  of  the  United 
Nations and is particularly relevant today.  

The  most  significant  challenge  to  stability  and 
progress  in  the  modern  world  is  posed  by  the  menace 
of  terrorism.  Recent  experience  the  world  over  amply 
demonstrates 
and 
discriminatory  approaches  can  unintentionally  give  a 
fresh  lease  of  life  to  the  forces  of  terror.  An  explicit 
and uniform response that refuses to recognize political 
shades of terrorism is required. 

Terrorism  presents  a  threat  from  which  not  even 
the wealthiest and most powerful nations are immune. 
It  must  be  remembered  also  that  terrorist  groups 
frequently  operate  under 
front 
organizations.  Conferring 
such 
organizations has had the inevitable effect of providing 
comfort and encouragement to the merchants of terror. 
As  the  leader  of  a  nation  that  has  paid  a  heavy  price 
because  of  terrorism  over  a  quarter  of  a  century,  I 
underline that we must firmly resolve to rid the world 
of terrorism. We need to have solid, practical action on 
the ground and send out our collective message on this 
issue loud and clear and universally. 

The interests of the developing world need to be 
protected  in  another  significant  respect.  It  is  vitally 
important to insist that the structures and procedures of 
multilateral  organizations  should  be  uniform  and 
consistent  and  devoid  of  discrimination.  My  country 
has  reason  for  concern  at  approaches  tainted  by  an 
unacceptable degree of selectivity, which we brought to 
the  notice  of  such  organizations  in  recent  weeks.  The 
developing  world  must  keep  a  vigil  against  such 
irregular  modalities,  which  should  be  resisted  through 
our  collective  strength.  Today,  after  three  decades  of 
pain and anguish, Sri Lankans of all ethnicities, living 
in  all  parts  of  Sri  Lanka,  are  free  from  the  Liberation 
Tigers  of  Tamil  Eelam  terror  and  no  longer  live  in  a 
state  of  fear.  However,  I  am  deeply  mindful  that  the 
battle  for  peace  is  every  bit  as  important  and  difficult 
as  the  struggle  against  terror. After  the  eradication  of 
terrorism,  my  Government 
its  undivided 
attention to building anew the foundations of a unified 
and vibrant nation, drawing upon the inherent strengths 
of  our  country  and  in  particular  the  unique  calibre  of 
our human potential. 
turned 
A/66/PV.19
in 
in 

It is justifiable for us to be proud of our nation’s 
achievements  during  the  brief  span  of  the  30  months 
since  the  beginning  of  the  post-conflict  phase.  The 
resettlement of more than 95 per cent of the internally 
displaced  persons,  who  constituted  the  largest  number 
of  civilians  forcibly  held  by  a  terrorist  group  at  any 
time,  while  continuing  even  today  to  clear  the  mines 
laid by terrorists in extensive areas, is an achievement 
of  which  we  can  be  proud.  Today  in  the  Northern 
Province  our  armed  forces  are  engaged 
the 
development  of  the  infrastructure  that  was  destroyed 
by  the  terrorists  during  a  period  of  three  decades. 
Contrary  to  malicious  propaganda  the  numbers  of 
armed  forces  personnel  present 
the  Northern 
Province has  been kept at  a minimal level. Revival of 
the  economy  has  enhanced  incomes  and  improved 
livelihoods.  Ex-combatants  and  other  cadres,  after 
exposure  to  programmes  of  vocational  training  and 
counselling,  have  been  reintegrated  into  society.  The 
electoral  process  has  been  restored  after  decades, 
making  possible 
the  emergence  of  a  democratic 
leadership. 

These  are  among  our  valued  accomplishments. 
The remarkable growth of 22 per cent of the economy 
of  the  Northern  Province  is  a  clear  indication  of  the 
success  achieved  by  the  Government’s  initiatives  with 
regard to development in that part of the country. The 
gross domestic product growth of the country has been 
consistent  at  8  per  cent,  and  unemployment  is  at  a 
record low of 4.5 per cent. It is also worthy of mention 
that, in the assessment by the World Economic Forum 
in  its  Global  Competitiveness  Report  for  2011-2012, 
Sri Lanka shows dramatic improvement, moving up to 
fifty-second  from  their  rank  of  seventy-ninth  over  a 
span  of  two  years.  It  is  worthy  of  note  that  all  these 
developments  have  taken  place  within  the  brief  space 
of  30  months  —  an  achievement  all 
the  more 
significant  because  of  our  strong  emphasis  on 
reconciliation.  Important  as  economic  development  is, 
we  have  attached  the  highest  priority  to  fostering  the 
spirit  of  inclusivity  and  removing  any  remnants  of 
bitterness from the hearts and minds of all our people. 
Over the past 30 months we have recruited 669 Tamil 
police  officers,  bringing  the  total  number  of  Tamil 
officers to 1,143, while plans are afoot to recruit more 
this year and in the future. After more than two decades 
a  census  is  being  conducted  in  the  Northern  Province 
as  part  of  the  national  census,  to  provide  a  firm  basis 
for our initiatives.  
11-51185 

15 

by 
inward 
for 
the 
investment 
future  and  a 
A/66/PV.19 


As a result of these achievements, what we see in 
Sri  Lanka  today  is  a  self-reliant  nation  with  robust 
strong  economy, 
hopes 
strengthened 
flows, 
unprecedented  expansion  of  tourism,  and  significant 
growth in volume of international trade. With a view to 
consolidating  these  trends  and  leaving  behind  us  the 
trauma  of  the  past,  we  ask  of  the  international 
community the hand of friendship and goodwill, based 
on  an  understanding  of  our  nation’s  determination  to 
confront with courage the challenge of a new era in our 
history.  We  ask  our  friends  in  distant  lands  to  drop 
preconceived  notions.  We  strongly  believe  in  home-
grown solutions for them to be sustainable. It is clearly 
impractical  to  conceive  of  universal  remedies  for 
problems  that  afflict  our  societies.  My  country,  as  it 
comes  out  of  the  darkness  of  the  past  three  decades 
into  the  light  and  promise  of  the  future,  must  be 
afforded  the  time  and  space  to  seek  its  destiny  in 
accordance  with  the  wishes  of  its  people.  That  is  in 
keeping with the values enshrined in the Charter of the 
United Nations and the whole body of international law 
that governs us. 
A  further  consideration  that  the  international 

community 
the 
vulnerability of developing nations, and it should make 
provision  by  means  of  appropriate 
institutional 
arrangements for their protection. As I observed when 
inaugurating  the  fiftieth  anniversary  meeting  of  the 
Asian-African  Legal  Consultative  Organization 
in 
Colombo 
the  dumping  of 
commercial  and  industrial  goods  manufactured  in 
developed  countries  imperils  the  economies  of  many 
Asian and African countries represented here. 

the  use  of 
substantial subsidies by treasuries and reserve banks to 
support agricultural production in the developed world, 
and  other  forms  of  protectionism,  cause  a  serious 
distortion in the interplay of market forces and greatly 
reduce  the  ability  of  farmers  in  many  developing 
countries  to  access  international  markets  for  their 
equitable  basis.  The 
export  products  on 
disproportionate  pollution  of 
the  environment  by 
industrialized  countries  and  the  resultant  impact  on 
global  warming  and  climate  change  cannot  be 
remedied  with  any  semblance  of  justice  by  imposing 
harsh  restraints  on  developing  countries,  which  have 
contributed very little to aggravate the problem. These 
three  months  ago, 
In  conclusion, 
let  me  say 
that 
account 
should 
take 
into 
an 
is 
circumstances heighten the importance of social equity 
at the international level.  
May the Noble Triple Gem bless you all. 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Democratic  Socialist  Republic  of  Sri  Lanka  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Mahinda  Rajapaksa,  President  of 
the 
Democratic Socialist Republic of Sri Lanka, was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Ismaël Omar Guelleh, President and 
Head of Government of the Republic of Djibouti 

hear  an  address  by 
Government of the Republic of Djibouti. 

The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
the  President  and  Head  of 
Mr. Ismaël Omar Guelleh, President and Head of 
Government  of  the  Republic  of  Djibouti,  was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ismaël  Omar  Guelleh, 
President and Head of Government of the Republic of 
Djibouti, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Guelleh  (spoke  in  French): Allow  me 

to  warmly  congratulate  the  President  on  his  accession 
to the presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-
sixth session. With his experience and expertise we are 
indeed assured of the successful conduct and outcome 
of  our  deliberations.  I  express  my  gratitude  to  his 
predecessor,  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss,  for  his  efficiency  and 
the  excellent  manner  in  which  he  guided  our  work 
throughout the sixty-fifth session. We wish him well in 
his future endeavours.  

I  also  extend  my  warmest  congratulations  to 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on his reappointment. 
That is a token of the esteem that all States have for his 
outstanding  leadership,  especially  in  these  turbulent 
times  and  the  difficult  international  political  situation. 
We  appreciate  his  tireless  efforts  and  commitment  to 
serve  the  international  community,  and  we  pledge  our 
full  support 
the 
fundamental values of the Charter.  

Lastly,  we  are  delighted  at  the  long-awaited 
creation  of  the  United  Nations  Entity  for  Gender 
Equality  and  the  Empowerment  of  Women,  which 
in  carrying  out  and  promoting 
16 

11-51185 


announces the remarkable progress that has been made 
during the past century in the quest for gender equality 
and empowerment of women. Clearly, despite the great 
strides  made  in  legal  matters,  it  is  still  true  that  such 
progress  is  not  always  translated  into  reality.  My 
Government  has  made  strengthening  women’s  rights 
and improving their lives absolute priorities, and I am 
committed  to  ensuring  that  our  laws  conform  to 
international standards. 

We are gathered here today in a global economic 
context that is more than worrying. This difficult world 
economic  environment  is  indeed  reflected  in  weak 
economies,  declining  growth,  crippling  debts  and 
deficits and rising unemployment. The least developed 
countries  are  more  severely  affected  by  these  crises. 
The  Fourth  United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Least 
Developed  Countries,  held  recently  in  Turkey,  gave 
new impetus to global efforts to improve the fate of the 
most vulnerable nations. From this perspective I invite 
the international community to pay special attention to 
the unique situation of least developed countries and to 
provide more support in alleviating the growing burden 
of  debt  by  assisting  them  to  improve  their  production 
capacity  and  facilitating  access  to  world  markets  on 
more favourable terms.  

Coupled  with  the  economic  malaise,  we  are 
witnessing  throughout  the  world  increasing  climatic 
disparities that range from one extreme to another. It is 
now  very  common  for  countries  to  be  hit  by  floods 
followed by droughts, and by earthquakes, devastating 
hurricanes  or  tsunamis.  The  catastrophe  that  recently 
hit  our  Japanese  friends  testifies  to  nature’s  ferocity. 
The recurrence of these climate plagues shows us that 
we must better prepare ourselves and set up appropriate 
mitigation and adaptation measures. 

In  the  Horn  of  Africa  the  uncertainties  of  the 
climate have  long been a fact of life,  as evidenced by 
the  recurrent  cycles  of  drought.  The  current  crisis 
affecting  my  country  is  not  sudden.  We  had  already 
sounded  the  alarm  in  2010,  when  the  first  warning 
signs  appeared.  Faced  with  this  terrible  scourge,  the 
resilience  of  the  region  is  strained,  and  emergency 
measures  alone  cannot  meet 
the  challenges  now 
confronting  us.  Indeed,  the  situation  we  face  today  is 
the  result  of  several  years  of  drought  that  have 
decimated the herds of nomadic peoples and destroyed 
their meagre crops. People in rural areas are obviously 
the  most  affected,  and  we  are  doing  our  best  to  help 
them.  
A/66/PV.19

Our needs are immediate and urgent, and we are 
grateful  to  the  friendly  countries  and  international 
organizations  that  have  assisted  us  in  our  efforts. 
However,  given  the  endemic  nature  of  the  drought  in 
our region, we need to go beyond reactive management 
and  focus  more  on  managing  long-term  preventative 
measures.  In  this  context  my  country  has  established 
several infrastructure projects in agriculture, including 
the  exploitation  of  arable  lands  in  the  neighbouring 
friendly  countries  of  Ethiopia  and  the  Sudan,  and  the 
River  Awash  water  catchment  project  on  the  border 
with Ethiopia for times of floods.  

The  country  most  affected  by  this  crisis  remains 
Somalia, because the precarious security situation does 
not  allow  access  to  certain  populations.  Indeed,  over 
the past two decades, Somalia has been a victim of the 
worst  evils.  It  has  been 
the  victim  of  endless 
bloodshed, insecurity, instability and destruction. Until 
recently  Al-Shabaab  militia  continued  fighting  in  the 
capital, which made it all the more difficult to help the 
affected population. Today, thanks to the diligence and 
sacrifices  of  the  Somali  security  forces  and  their 
colleagues from the African Union Mission in Somalia, 
Al-Shabaab militia have been pushed out of the capital, 
and that has facilitated the delivery of humanitarian aid 
to drought victims. 

As I was able to see for myself during my visit to 
Mogadishu last month, the guns have fallen silent, life 
has resumed its course and this year, for the first time 
since  the  armed  conflict  began  in  1991,  Somalis  were 
able  to  celebrate  Eid  in  peace.  Numerous  high-level 
officials  have  since  visited  the  Somali  capital,  which 
had long been considered too dangerous.  

This  still-fragile  but  auspicious  peace  is  an 
opportunity  for  the  Somali  people  to  rebuild  their 
country. Thanks to the security situation, which is now 
under  control  in  the  capital,  the  Somali  people  and 
their  leaders  have  before  them  an  unprecedented 
opportunity  to  revive  a  lasting  peace,  to  stop  the 
interminable 
the 
country  to  a  permanent  governance  by  next  year. 
Efforts  have  been  made  in  this  direction  by  the 
Transitional  Government  as  well  as  by  regional  and 
international  organizations.  These  have  helped  parties 
to  reach  an  agreement  that  reflects  the  new  political 
reality in Somalia, especially after the month of August 
2011.  
transition  process  and 
to  move 
11-51185 

17 

the  Somalis  and  of 
fruitless  discussions  within 
A/66/PV.19 

All these efforts should be applauded as a sign of 

the  determination  of 
the 
international  community  to  end  the  endless  infighting 
and 
the  Transitional 
Federal Institutions. In this regard the agreed road map 
represents a solemn commitment by the leaders of the 
Transitional  Federal  Institutions  to  the  people  of 
Somalia,  the  regional  bodies  and  the  international 
community as a whole.  

The  international  community,  for  its  part,  must 
not  lose  sight  of  the  obvious  weaknesses  of  the 
Transitional  Government  and  should  endeavour  to 
provide the necessary resources to build capacity. The 
Somali  Government  should  take  this  opportunity  to 
show determination, courage and leadership. 

Beyond  the  rigours  of  the  climate  and  problems 
they  generate,  the  Horn  of  Africa  is  often  associated 
with fratricidal wars. Indeed, at one point in its history 
each of our neighbours has been in a conflict situation. 
While Djibouti has spared no effort to maintain peace, 
in  spite  of  ourselves  we  were  unfortunately  dragged 
into a border conflict with Eritrea in June 2008.  
Since  then,  despite  the  best  efforts  of  regional 

and  international  organizations  and  the  adoption  of 
Security  Council  resolutions  1862  (2009)  and  1907 
(2009),  Eritrea  refuses  to  answer  us  about  the  fate  of 
19  prisoners  of  war  or  even  to  acknowledge  their 
existence. This remains a serious concern and a source 
of great sadness for my people and myself.  

However, despite Eritrea’s failure to comply with 
the  clear  requirements  set  forth  in  those  resolutions, 
my Government and I remain convinced that mediation 
is the only way that will allow us to achieve a lasting 
peace.  With  this  conviction  in  mind,  my  Government 
has accepted the efforts and goodwill of His Highness 
the Emir of Qatar. That led to the stationing of Qatari 
troops on the border between Djibouti and Eritrea and 
the  withdrawal  of  Eritrean  troops  from  the  Djibouti 
territory  they  had  illegally  occupied.  For  our  part,  we 
remain  willing  to  cooperate  fully  with  the  sincere 
efforts  of  His  Highness  the  Emir  of  Qatar,  and  we 
remain  confident  of  the  peaceful  outcome  of  this 
mediation. 

We  will  never  stop  believing  in  the  virtues  of 
dialogue  and  mediation,  the  only  virtues  that  can 
enable  our  region  to  consolidate  the  gains  of  peace. 
The  most 
is 
undoubtedly  the  birth  of  the  new  nation  of  South 
recent  example  of  such  success 
We  Africans  know  better 
Sudan,  once  again  demonstrating  the  ability  of  our 
peers  to  find  a  peaceful  solution  to  a  decades-old 
fratricidal  conflict.  Today,  as  the  people  of  South 
Sudan take their first steps in the comity of nations, we 
want  to  assure  them  of  our  fraternal  support.  I  am 
confident  that  they  will  resolve  the  outstanding  issues 
peacefully. 

Of  course,  we  can  only  rejoice  that  a  new 
Member  has  joined  the  Organization,  but  I  could  not 
mention  the  independence  of  South  Sudan  without 
recalling  the  situation  that  has  prevailed  in  Palestine 
since 1947.  

The  very  foundation  of  the  United  Nations 
consisted in fighting injustice  and giving nations their 
sovereignty.  Many  countries  here  today,  including 
mine,  have  at  some  point  in  their  history  found 
themselves  here  in  search  of  independence.  South 
Sudan  became  the  193rd  Member  State  on  13  July. 
Palestine,  for  its  part,  continues  to  this  day  to  live 
under occupation, which in this day and age is morally 
wrong and politically unsustainable.  

the 
conditions  in  which  colonized  populations  live.  The 
fate  experienced  by  the  Palestinians  for  more  than 
60 years we have known, we have fought and we have 
overcome  by  obtaining  the  recognition  of  our  peers. 
More than  any other institution, for  colonized peoples 
the  United  Nations  represented  hope:  the  hope  for  a 
better future, freed from the colonial yoke; the hope to 
live in one’s own country, enjoying freedom and one’s 
rights; the hope, above all, to regain dignity.  

The  time  has  come  for  us  to  give  hope  to  our 
Palestinian  brothers  and  sisters  by  recognizing  their 
right  to  become  a  full-fledged  State.  It  is  time  to  end 
the  siege,  the  poverty  and  the  despair.  History  will 
remember,  I  hope,  that  on  this  day  we  decided  to  end 
the  injustice  and  made  the  choice  to  finally  give  to 
Palestine  a  full  place  in  the  international  community. 
History will especially remember that we have chosen 
not  to  disappoint  the  hopes  of  the  fraternal  people  of 
Palestine. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  and  Head  of 
Government  of  the  Republic  of  Djibouti  for  the 
statement he has just made. 
than  anyone 
18 

11-51185 



Mr. Ismaël Omar Guelleh, President and Head of 
Government  of  the  Republic  of  Djibouti,  was 
escorted from the General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Hifikepunye Pohamba, President of 
the Republic of Namibia 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Namibia. 

Mr.  Hifikepunye  Pohamba,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Namibia,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Hifikepunye  Pohamba, 
President of the Republic of Namibia, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.  
President  Pohamba:  I  wish  to  congratulate  the 

President and his country, Qatar, on his election to the 
presidency  of  the  Assembly  at  this  session.  With  his 
wisdom  and  experience,  I  am  confident  that  he  will 
successfully  steer  the  proceedings  of  the  Assembly.  I 
assure him of my delegation’s cooperation and support. 
I  also  congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon 
on his reappointment as Secretary-General. 

I commend the President for choosing the role of 
mediation  in  the  settlement  of  disputes  by  peaceful 
means  as  the  theme  for  this  debate.  The  peaceful 
settlement of disputes, as provided for in Chapter VI of 
the  United  Nations  Charter,  is  an  important  principle 
that  the  international  community  should  uphold  in 
seeking solutions to conflicts throughout the world.  

Our  Government  recognizes  the  legitimacy  of 
peaceful  demands  for  democratic  changes  in  sister 
countries  such  as  Tunisia  and  Egypt.  However,  we 
believe that the demands for democratic change should 
be locally driven. They should not be used as a pretext 
to undermine the fundamental principle of sovereignty 
and  non-intervention 
internal  affairs  of 
independent States.  

We  are  concerned  that  all  efforts  by  the African 
Union  to  find  a  peaceful  negotiated  solution  in  Libya 
were ignored and undermined. Never in the history of 
the United Nations has the sanctity of the principle of 
non-intervention  been  so  compromised  as  we  have 
witnessed  recently  in  Libya. The  military  intervention 
by  a  foreign  Power  reminds  Africa  of  the  infamous 
the 
in 
A/66/PV.19
Berlin Conference of 1884, when Africa was carved up 
by imperial Powers. 

In the aftermath of the recent political changes in 
some  African  countries,  it  is  important  to  underscore 
the  need  to  promote  genuine  national  reconciliation 
and  unity  and  to  begin  urgently  to  address  the 
challenges  of  poverty  and  unemployment,  especially 
among  the  youth  of  the  world.  Respect  for  justice, 
fundamental  human  rights,  the  rule  of  law  and  good 
governance should be preconditions for lasting peace.  

Following  successful  negotiations,  the  Republic 
of  South  Sudan  attained  its  independence  on  9  July 
2011. This demonstrated the statesmanship and wisdom 
of the leaders of the Sudan and the Republic of South 
Sudan, who chose the path of peace and mediation. We 
call  on  the  two  countries  to  resolve  all  outstanding 
issues  through  peaceful  means.  I  wish  His  Excellency 
President  Salva  Kiir  Mayardit  success  as  he  leads  the 
people  of  South  Sudan  in  building  a  united  and 
prosperous nation. 

Namibia  calls  for  the  immediate  implementation 
of  the  United  Nations  settlement  plan  and  relevant 
United Nations resolutions calling for the holding of a 
free and fair referendum in Western Sahara. 

With  regard  to  Palestine,  I  reaffirm  our  full  and 
unequivocal  support  for  the  legitimate  struggle  of  the 
Palestinian people to achieve their inalienable right to 
self-determination and national independence. Namibia 
supports  the  admission  of  Palestine  to  the  United 
Nations as a full Member.  

The overwhelming majority of the Member States 
of the Assembly have for many years expressed serious 
concern over the continuing economic, commercial and 
financial  embargo  against  the  Republic  of  Cuba. 
Namibia  calls  for  the  immediate  and  unconditional 
lifting of this embargo. 

Namibia welcomes the recent signing of the road 
map  by  the  Malagasy  political  stakeholders  with  the 
facilitation  of 
the  Southern  African  Development 
Community mediator. It paves the way for bringing an 
end to the political crisis and returning Madagascar to 
constitutional  order  and  democratic  rule.  The  United 
Nations  and 
international  community  should 
provide adequate financial support to that country and 
become  actively  engaged  in  the  ongoing  mediation 
efforts  to  ensure  the  full  implementation  of  the  road 
map. 
the 
11-51185 

19 

A/66/PV.19 


The  people  of  Somalia  are  faced  with  not  only 
political  uncertainty  but  also  a  severe  drought  and 
famine,  which  have  resulted  in  a  human  catastrophe. 
Namibia  has  joined  the  international  community  in 
contributing food supplies to the people of Somalia as 
part of the international effort to address the crisis. 

The  effects  of  climate  change  are  real  and  are 
acutely  felt  in  every  part  of  the  globe.  For  the  past 
three  consecutive  years  Namibia  has  experienced 
devastating  floods,  which  negatively  impacted  our 
development  plans.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  once 
again  thank  members  of  the  international  community 
who responded to our emergency appeal for assistance. 

Now  more  than  ever  before,  all  Member  States 
should  work  towards  the  successful  conclusion  of  the 
seventeenth  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
which  will  take  place  in  Durban,  South  Africa,  later 
this  year.  This  should  set  the  tone  for  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development, 
Rio+20, to be held in Rio de Janeiro next year.  

the  United  Nations  system, 
especially  the  Security  Council,  has  been  painfully 
slow.  I  underscore  Namibia’s  firm  conviction  that  a 
reformed  Security  Council  should  be  democratic, 
representative and transparent in its working methods. 
That is consistent with the African common position. It 
is incumbent on all Member States to work together to 
strengthen  the  Organization  in  order  to  guarantee 
international  peace  and  security  and 
to  advance 
sustainable  economic  and  social  development  for  a 
fairer and more just world for all. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Namibia for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Hifikepunye  Pohamba,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Namibia,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  reform  of 


Address by Mr. Salva Kiir, President of the Republic 
of South Sudan 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
South Sudan. 

Mr. Salva Kiir, President of the Republic of South 
Sudan,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
this  opportunity  and 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Salva Kiir, President of the 
Republic of South Sudan, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly. 
President  Kiir:  Allow  me  first  to  congratulate 

Mr. Al-Nasser on his election to the presidency of the 
General Assembly at this sixty-sixth  session. We  wish 
him  every  success  during  his  term  of  office.  In  the 
same  way,  we  congratulate  the  Secretary-General  on 
having been re-elected to a second term because of the 
confidence  he  has  won  from  the  people  of  the  United 
Nations. 

I  have  not  been  involved  in  global  issues,  being 
the representative of the youngest nation in this family 
of nations. Our country is just two months and 14 days 
old  today.  Members  can  see  how  many  problems  and 
challenges are ahead of us. I wish at the outset to avail 
myself  of 
the  privilege  of 
addressing  this  stellar  gathering  to  reiterate,  on  my 
own behalf and on behalf of the people of the Republic 
of  South  Sudan,  our  most  sincere  and  profound 
gratitude to the entire international community for the 
warmth  with  which  our  State  has  been  welcomed  into 
the  community  of  nations.  My  people  back  home  in 
South  Sudan,  and  I  personally  here  in  New  York, 
regard this significant moment as yet another milestone 
on the long list of our achievements.  
The President returned to the Chair. 


I  should  like  to  seize  this  opportunity  also  once 
again to salute the many who stood with us during our 
long struggle. We are indebted to many friends in this 
great  Hall,  without  whose  efforts  it  would  not  have 
been easy for us to get where we are today. We owe a 
debt 
the 
Intergovernmental Authority on Development (IGAD), 
the troika States, and the friends and partners of IGAD, 
who  waged  a  struggle  for  peace  for  the  Sudan  that 
culminated in the signing of the Comprehensive Peace 
Agreement (CPA) in 2005. As an emergent nation that 
has been embroiled in conflict during different periods 
of time, all of which add up to more than five decades, 
the Republic of South Sudan stands in dire need of all 
the help it can get.  

In  most  post-conflict  situations,  nations  would 
normally expect to rebuild. That is not the case for us. 
Even before the ravages of war set in, our country had 
nothing  worth  rebuilding.  Hence,  we  characterize  our 
countries 
gratitude 
of 
to 
the 
of 
20 

11-51185 
Oil 
resource 
into 
translate 
therefore  hope 
is  a  non-renewable 


post-conflict mission as one of construction rather than 
reconstruction,  and  we 
the 
overwhelming  outpouring  of  support  and  sympathy 
that  greeted  our  independence  from  all  corners  of  the 
globe  will 
tangible  development 
assistance for South Sudan. Our march out of the abyss 
of  poverty  and  deprivation  into  the  realm  of  progress 
and  prosperity  is  going  to  be  a  long  one,  and  that  is 
why  we  need  members  to  partner  us  on  this  difficult 
journey. 

Although  nature  has  endowed  our  country  with 
some  resources,  notably  oil  and  other  mineral  wealth, 
we  hardly  produce  anything  for  ourselves  —  at  least 
not yet. We are determined to diversify the economy of 
our  country  and  lessen  our  precarious  and  near  total 
dependence  on  oil.  Our  strategy  is  to  use  the  oil  as  a 
catalyst to unlock the potential we have in other areas, 
especially in agriculture. 

that  will 
inevitably be depleted at some point in the future, but 
we  know  that  the  land,  water  and  human  resources  at 
our  disposal  will  continue  to  be  our  country’s  true, 
inexhaustible  fount  of  wealth.  The  ambition  of  the 
people of South Sudan is to be able to transform their 
country into a regional agro-industrial powerhouse, but 
without  a  helping  hand  from  others  the  attainment  of 
this  goal  will  indeed  remain  a  tall  order.  Much  as  we 
need external assistance, it is our passionate wish that 
it  be  offered  on  terms  that  will  also  respect  our 
political and economic choices. 

The Republic of South Sudan is under no illusion 
that  economic  development  and  prosperity  can  be 
achieved  in  the  absence  of  a  climate  of  peace  and 
stability.  We  shall  therefore  strive  to  promote  peace 
and harmony not only internally but also between all of 
our  neighbours  and  us.  Inside  South  Sudan,  we  have 
set up broad-based executive and legislative organs of 
Government that are inclusive of key political parties. 
We  did  so  despite  the  fact  that  our  party,  the  Sudan 
People’s Liberation Movement, won a landslide in the 
recent elections.  

We  were  not  deterred  from  installing  such  an 
accommodative Government by the fact that we do not 
even  yet  have  in  place  the  requisite  legal  framework 
governing  political  party  activity. We  took  those  steps 
not  only  because  of  our  commitment  to  political 
pluralism,  but  primarily  because  of  our  strong 
that 
A/66/PV.19
that  any  spillover  effects  from 
conviction that measures of inclusion such as these can 
foster peace and harmony. 

In  the  external  domain,  we  remain  strongly 
committed 
to  maintaining  peaceful  and  mutually 
beneficial  relations  with  all  States,  and  particularly 
with  our  neighbours.  In  that  regard,  I  wish  to  affirm 
that  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan  fully  adheres  to  the 
principle  of  absolute  respect  for  the  sovereignty  and 
territorial integrity of all States, including the Republic 
of the Sudan. Therefore, the Republic of South Sudan 
hereby  categorically  restates  that  it  has  not  interfered 
and will not interfere in any domestic conflict situation 
in the Republic of the Sudan. 

However,  on  account  of  the  fact  that  conflict 
areas in the Republic of the Sudan border our country 
and 
those  could 
negatively  impact  our  own  security,  we  urge  the 
Government of the Sudan to seek a peaceful resolution 
to  those  conflicts.  We  would  like  to  emphasize  in 
particular that the reinstatement by the Government of 
the Sudan of the recent Addis Ababa framework accord 
on  the  situation  in  Southern  Kordofan  State  and 
political  relations  between  the  Government  and  the 
opposition could go a long way towards promoting the 
restoration  of  peace  in  the  areas  bordering  South 
Sudan. 

There  are  a  number  of  outstanding  issues  that 
have  carried  over  from  the  Comprehensive  Peace 
Agreement. We hope to  expeditiously  resolve them so 
as  to  ensure  the  complete  normalization  of  relations 
between the two States and the start of a new era of a 
positive  and  mutually  beneficial  relationship  that  will 
be  predicated  on  the  commonalities  shared  by  the 
people  of  the  two  States.  We  therefore  urge  the 
Government of the Republic of the Sudan to consent to 
the speedy demarcation of the border between the two 
States,  with  the  help  of  the  international  community. 
We  hope  that  Khartoum  will  no  longer  object  to  such 
an  arrangement,  given  that  South  Sudan  is  now  a 
sovereign State.  

We would also like to plead with the Government 
of the Republic of the Sudan to agree to the submission 
of  our  dispute  over  the  ownership  of  a  number  of 
border 
arbitration.  The 
Government  of the Republic of South Sudan applauds 
the cooperation of the Government of the Republic  of 
the Sudan in paving the way to the deployment of the 
United  Nations  Interim  Security  Force  for Abyei,  and 
international 
areas 
to 
11-51185 

21 

A/66/PV.19 

hopes  that  the  two  countries  will  reach  agreement 
sooner rather than later on the resolution of the Abyei 
issue, in line with the relevant provisions of the CPA. 

On  the  economic  front,  South  Sudan  wishes  to 
declare  that  it  is  willing  and  ready  to  outline  serious 
negotiations with Khartoum. That will be done with the 
aim of reaching mutually acceptable arrangements that 
will  guarantee  for  the  Republic  of  the  Sudan  a  fair 
income 
the  use  of  Sudan’s  oil  export 
from 
infrastructure. 
In terms of governance, we have moved to rectify 

some of the defects in our system by strengthening the 
pillars  of  good  governance. A  number  of  key  bills  — 
notable among which is a public financial management 
bill — are now making their way steadily through the 
legislative process. The passage of such laws will help 
promote 
and 
ultimately curb corruption and the unwarranted loss of 
public revenue. 

In  conclusion,  the  new  Republic  of  South  Sudan 
vows to become an active member of the global family 
of  nations,  making  its  contribution  to  fostering  world 
peace and prosperity for the benefit of all humankind. 
the  General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of South Sudan for the statement he has just made. 

Mr. Salva Kiir, President of the Republic of South 
Sudan,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
accountability 
transparency 
and 


The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
Address by Mr. Serzh Sargsyan, President of the 
Republic of Armenia 

address by the President of Armenia. 

Mr. Serzh Sargsyan, President of the Republic of 
Armenia, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Serzh Sargsyan, President 
of  the  Republic  of  Armenia,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly. 
in  Armenian; 

interpretation into English provided by the delegation): 
I  would  first  like  to  thank  and  wish  every  success  to 
Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser,  President  of  the 
President  Sargsyan
(spoke 
things,  on 
to  settle  conflicts 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session,  and  to 
thank  Mr.  Deiss  of  Switzerland  for  his  leadership 
during the sixty-fifth session. I would also like to take 
this  opportunity  to  once  again  congratulate  Secretary-
General Ban  Ki-moon on his appointment to a second 
term in office. 

I  would  like  to  acknowledge  the  importance  of 
the  choice  of  theme  for  this  general  debate,  and  to 
highlight  the  role  of  mediation  in  the  settlement  of 
disputes by peaceful means and as a way of preventing 
the resumption of hostilities. 

We  greatly  appreciate  the  mediation  efforts  of 
global  and  regional  entities  and  organizations  in 
various  parts  of  the  world  to  preserve  peace  and 
security  and 
through  peaceful 
negotiations.  Particularly  worth  mentioning  is  the 
engagement  of  regional  organizations,  which  have 
gained  a  great  deal  of  experience  in  mediation  and 
have  in-depth  knowledge  of  political,  cultural  and 
military  realities  on  the  ground.  The  success  of 
mediation  hinges,  among  other 
the 
articulation  of  a  clearly  defined  mandate.  A  case  in 
point  for  us  has  been  the  role  of  the  Minsk  Group  of 
the  Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in 
Europe  (OSCE)  in  settling  the  Nagorno  Karabakh 
conflict. 

Another key factor worth highlighting here is the 
role  of  mediators  in  preventing  the  escalation  of 
conflict and a resumption of hostilities. This aspect of 
mediation is sometimes overlooked, yet it is of no less 
importance  to  international  peace  and  stability  than  is 
finding a solution to a contentious matter. 

Three years ago, when I had the honour to speak 
from this rostrum (see A/63/PV.9), I said that the time 
had come for serious consideration of people’s right to 
self-determination  in  the  twenty-first  century.  Today, 
we  are  witnessing  new  instances  of  people  exercising 
this  inalienable  right.  In  that  context,  I  would  like  to 
congratulate  the  newly  elected  193rd  Member  of  the 
United Nations, the Republic of South Sudan. Its road 
to a seat in this Hall has been long and difficult, but the 
people of South Sudan, through the free expression of 
their  will,  have  exercised  their  right  to  live  as  a 
sovereign,  independent  nation,  thus  pursuing  the  path 
that many of the Member States represented here today 
have taken. 
The people of Nagorno Karabakh made the same 

choice  two  decades  ago  by  exercising  their  right  to 
22 

11-51185 
in 
the  peace 
Baku  has 
racism  and 
talks.  Despite 
international  entities  specializing 


self-determination,  withstanding  the  war  unleashed  by 
Azerbaijan, and surviving bloodshed to earn their right 
to  live  in  freedom.  The  Nagorno  Karabakh  conflict 
settlement  talks  are  continuing  with  the  mediation  of 
the  OSCE  Minsk  Group  co-chairs.  We  are  grateful  to 
the  co-chair  countries  and  their  leaders  for  their 
mediation  efforts.  However,  it  is  the  negotiating 
parties,  not  the  mediators,  who  have  to  reach  an 
agreement. Azerbaijan’s utter unwillingness to reach an 
agreement  and  its  everything-or-war  position  have 
stalled  progress 
the 
expectations and high-level advice of the international 
community, Azerbaijan took yet another step backward 
during  the  last  meeting  in  Kazan  by  rejecting  the 
previously formulated arrangement and in fact trying to 
make the negotiation process break down. 

into  State 
turned  Armenophobia 
propaganda  at  a  level  that  is  way  beyond  dangerous. 
That  is  not  just  our  view;  the  alarm  has  also  been 
sounded  by 
in 
combating 
intolerance.  Even  more 
dangerously, Armenophobic ideas are spreading among 
the  young  Azeri  generation,  imperilling  the  future  of 
peaceful  coexistence.  By  denying  and  destroying  all 
things  Armenian,  Baku  stubbornly  continues 
to 
against  Armenia, 
disseminate 
Nagorno  Karabakh  and  Armenians  at  all 
levels 
everywhere,  including  here,  within  the  framework  of 
the  United  Nations. Azerbaijan’s  propaganda  machine 
continues 
international 
community and its domestic audience with horrendous 
lies about so-called Armenian brutality and the killing 
of  children.  These 
fabricated  and 
disseminated  based  on  their  authors’  shallow  yet 
painful  logic,  which  posits  that  there  are  some  people 
out  there  who  will  rise  to  the  bait  of  this  evil 
propaganda against Armenia and that it will thus serve 
a purpose. 

In recent years, owing to the efforts of the Minsk 
Group co-chair countries, particularly direct mediation 
on the part of the President of the Russian Federation, 
a number of documents have been signed, including the 
Meindorf,  Astrakhan  and  Sochi  declarations,  which 
have  stressed  the  need  to  strengthen  confidence-
building  measures  between  the  parties.  The  signature 
of  the  President  of  Azerbaijan  is  also  on  those 
documents.  Azerbaijan,  however,  continues  to  turn 
down 
international 
community  concerning  agreement  on  the  non-use  of 
to  regularly  bombard 
repeated  proposals 
stories  are 
accusations 
from 
false 
the 
the 
A/66/PV.19
to 
rise 
leads 
questions 
forms  of 
good-neighbourly 
the  urgent  need 
coexistence.  With 
level.  The  dangerous 
intolerance.  Unfortunately, 
force  and  the  strengthening  of  confidence-building 
measures. 

Moreover,  Azerbaijan’s  belligerent  rhetoric  and 
threats of war have intensified, and ceasefire violations 
that continue to deprive innocent civilians of their lives 
have grown more frequent. All of this is orchestrated at 
the  highest  State 
in 
manifestations  of  Armenophobia  not  only  does  not 
contribute to  an atmosphere of trust in the region,  but 
also 
about  Azerbaijan’s 
understanding of the United Nations goals of tolerance 
and 
such 
aspirations,  it  is  impermissible  and  even  dangerous  to 
aspire to membership in the Security Council. 

Yesterday,  in  the  framework  of  the  Assembly, 
alongside debates on some of the most vital and urgent 
issues of our time, a High-level meeting was convened 
yesterday  on  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  Durban 
Declaration,  which  reiterated 
to 
eliminate racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and 
all 
these 
phenomena are familiar to us Armenians not only from 
the examples I mentioned earlier and not only from this 
century.  As  a  nation  that  has  survived  genocide,  the 
most  extreme  form  of  racism  and  xenophobia,  we  are 
morally obliged to act to prevent future genocides. 

The  elimination  of  racism  and  xenophobia  and 
the  inculcation  of  tolerance  can  be  truly  effective  if 
accompanied  by  a  clear  prescription  of 
liability. 
Impunity and the avoidance of accountability give birth 
to  yet  new  crimes.  Hence,  it  is  incumbent  upon  the 
international  community  to  identify  and  denounce 
without delay any expression of intolerance, especially 
in its extreme forms. 
The genocide of the Armenians perpetrated under 

the  Ottoman  Empire  has  been 
recognized  and 
condemned  by  numerous  countries,  parliaments, 
international  organizations  and  the  community  of 
genocide  scholars.  Unfortunately,  the  same  does  not 
hold true  for  the Republic  of Turkey, which  continues 
to  engage  in  a  policy  of  denying  this  atrocious  crime 
against humanity.  
We  unequivocally  welcome  the  clear  position 

adopted  by  the  international  community  in  precluding 
any  possibility  of 
the 
perpetrators  of  genocide  and  other  crimes  against 
humanity.  Without  recognition  and  condemnation,  it 
will be impossible to develop and implement effective 
immunity  or  pardon  for 
11-51185 

23 
that 
A/66/PV.19 

mechanisms  of  prevention,  which  is  a  United  Nations 
priority.  Armenia  will  contribute  its  utmost  to  the 
recognition, punishment and prevention of genocide. 

These  references  to  the Armenian  genocide  lead 
me to recall another important celebration marked this 
year:  the  150th  birthday  of  Fridtjof  Nansen,  the  first 
High Commissioner for Refugees. In the most difficult 
period  for  my  nation,  that  great  humanist  rendered 
priceless  support  to  the  survival  of  the  homeland-
deprived  fragments  of  the  Armenian  people  who  had 
fled the genocide. Holders of Nansen passports settled 
in  various  countries  of  the  world.  They  rose  to  their 
feet  and  partook  in  the  development  of  the  countries 
and  peoples  that  offered  them  refuge.  I  believe  that 
justice  and  equal  rights  between  States  have  become 
standards  in  international  relations  thanks  to  such 
powerful  individuals,  who  promoted  their  vision  of 
morality in the cruel world of realpolitik. 

Speaking  from  this  rostrum  in  2008,  I  expressed 
the  hope 
the  Armenia-Turkey  normalization 
process initiated by us, the establishment of diplomatic 
relations  and  the  opening  of  the  borders  closed  by 
Turkey, in violation of international law, would become 
the  first  steps  towards  the  launch  of  a  dialogue  to 
overcome 
the  climate  of  mistrust,  suspicion  and 
uncertainty  between  us.  Although  our  initiative  was 
commended and widely supported by the international 
community, Turkey has in all ways possible aborted the 
ratification  and  implementation  of  the  protocols  we 
signed in 2009. 

Today,  on  the  eve  of  the  Rio  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development, political will 
must  be 
international 
commitments  to  convert  the  South  Caucasus  into  a 
region of cooperation and prosperity. 

and 
between 
development  is  not  an  abstract  theory  for  our  region, 
where  economic  cooperation  and  deeper  integration 
with  the  global  economy  are  hampered  by  unlawful 
blockades  and  the  obstruction  of  regional  integration 
projects.  Those  attitudes,  alongside  the  fuelling  of  an 
arms race, not only pose a danger to the peoples of the 
region,  but  also  continue  to  drain  the  resources  direly 
needed for sustainable development. 

The time has come for the leaders of the countries 
of  our  region  to  stand  above  the  dictates  of  narrow 
political agendas and to move towards solutions aimed 
at  a  peaceful  and  prosperous  future  for  generations  to 
to  honour 
correlation 
security 
exerted 
The 

of 
the 
twentieth 
anniversary 
the  building  of 
Two  days  ago, 
come.  I  want  to  believe  that,  in  the  not-too-distant 
future, our region will be perceived as a solid and firm 
bridge  uniting  civilizations,  rather  than  as  a  dividing 
line. 
the  Republic  of  Armenia 

celebrated 
its 
independence. In September 1991, Armenia restored its 
independence,  realizing  the  dream  of  the  Armenian 
people and reuniting with the family of nations. In the 
realm of history, 20 years may seem like a short time, 
but for the current generation it has served as a time of 
great  change,  with 
independent 
statehood  and  a  renewed  perception  of  its  role  and 
place  in  the  world.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  express 
my  gratitude  to  all  the  States,  peoples  and  individuals 
in 
that  have  supported  us 
these  20  years  of 
development and State-building. 

Freedom,  peace  and  democracy  are  our  choice, 
and we are committed to this path. We are proud of our 
achievements  today.  In  two  decades,  the  Republic  of 
Armenia  has  implemented  a  wide-scale  programme  of 
State-building.  Much  has  been  done  in  the  fields  of 
democratization, 
the  protection  of  human  rights, 
economic reform, and the  establishment of the  rule  of 
law  and  a  liberal  economy.  We  have  achieved  much, 
but  much  remains  to  be  done.  Above  all,  we  are 
convinced that we are on the right path — a path that is 
irreversible. 

Exactly  a decade ago, New York, the  city that is 
home  to  the  United  Nations,  experienced  one  of  the 
worst atrocities in the history of humankind — the 9/11 
terrorist attacks. Armenia unconditionally supports and 
actively  contributes  to  the  international  community’s 
counter-terrorism  efforts  and  all  the  initiatives  of  the 
United  Nations  in  this  area.  We  are  doing  and  will 
continue to do our best to make the world a safer and 
more peaceful place. 

We  stand  ready,  to  the  best  of  our  abilities,  to 
contribute  to  global  security  and  respond  to  global 
threats,  be  it  through  peacekeeping  missions,  the 
elimination  of  the  consequences  of  natural  disasters, 
environmental protection or the fight against terrorism, 
racism and intolerance. Over the years, we have proven 
our  aspirations  and  determination  with  deeds,  and  we 
stand ready to continue doing the same. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Armenia for the statement he has just made. 
the 
24 

11-51185 



Mr. Serzh Sargsyan, President of the Republic of 
Armenia,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
from 

Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate 




and  President  of 
and  President  of 
the  Executive  Committee  of 
  Address by Mr. Mahmoud Abbas, Chairman of 
the Executive Committee of the Palestine 
Liberation Organization and President of the 
Palestinian Authority 
The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Chairman  of  the 
the  Palestine  Liberation 
Executive  Committee  of 
Organization 
the  Palestinian 
Authority.  

Mr.  Mahmoud  Abbas,  Chairman  of  the  Executive 
Committee  of  the  Palestine  Liberation  Organization 
and  President  of  the  Palestinian  Authority,  was 
escorted to the rostrum. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  have  great 

pleasure in welcoming Mr. Mahmoud Abbas, Chairman 
of 
the  Palestinian 
Liberation  Organization 
the 
Palestinian Authority,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the 
General Assembly. 
Mr. Abbas  (Palestine)  (spoke  in  Arabic): At  the 

outset, I extend my congratulations to you, Sir, on your 
assumption of the presidency of the General Assembly 
for this session. I wish you every success. 

Today,  on  behalf  of  the  Palestine  Liberation 
Organization  (PLO)  and  the  Palestinian  people,  I 
extend  my  sincere  congratulations  to  the  Government 
and  the  people  of  South  Sudan  on  their  deserved 
admission as a full Member of the United Nations. We 
wish them progress and prosperity. 

the  Secretary-General, 
Mr. Ban Ki-moon, on his election for a new term at the 
helm  of  the  United  Nations.  This  renewal  of  trust 
reflects  the  world’s  appreciation  for  his  efforts,  which 
have strengthened the role of the Organization. 
The  question  of  Palestine  is  intricately  linked 

with 
the  resolutions 
the  United  Nations 
adopted by its various organs and agencies and through 
the  essential  and  lauded  role  of  the  United  Nations 
Relief and Works Agency for Palestine Refugees in the 
the 
Near  East 
(UNRWA).  UNRWA 
embodies 
I 
also 
congratulate 
through 
11-51185 

A/66/PV.19
international responsibility with regard to the plight of 
Palestine’s refugees, who are the victims of Al-Nakba, 
the catastrophe that occurred in 1948.  

We  aspire  to  and  seek  a  greater  and  more 
effective  role  for  the  United  Nations  in  working  to 
achieve a just and comprehensive peace in our region, 
one  that  ensures  the  inalienable,  legitimate  national 
rights  of  the  Palestinian  people  as  defined  by  the 
resolutions of international legitimacy and as embodied 
by the United Nations. 
A  year  ago,  on  this  same  occasion  and  in  this 

same  Hall,  many  leaders  and  heads  of  delegations 
addressed  the  stalled  peace  efforts  in  our  region. 
Everyone  had  high  hopes  for  a  new  round  of  final 
status  negotiations,  which  had  begun 
in  early 
September  in Washington  under  the  direct  auspices  of 
President Obama and with participation of the Quartet, 
Egypt  and  Jordan,  to  reach  a  peace  agreement  within 
one  year.  We  entered  those  negotiations  with  open 
hearts  and  attentive  ears  and  sincere  intentions.  We 
were  ready  with  our  documents,  files,  papers  and 
proposals. But the negotiations broke down just weeks 
after they were launched. 

After  that,  we  did  not  give  up  and  did  not  cease 
our efforts to craft initiatives and make contacts. Over 
the past year, we did not leave a door to be knocked on 
or a channel to be tested or a path to be taken. We did 
not  ignore  any  formal  or  informal  party  of  influence 
and  stature  that  could  be  addressed.  We  considered 
positively 
ideas  and  proposals  and 
initiatives presented by many countries and parties. But 
all  of 
those  sincere  efforts  and  endeavours  by 
international  parties  were  repeatedly  smashed  against 
the  rocks  of  the  positions  of  the  Israeli  Government, 
which quickly dashed the hopes raised by the launch of 
negotiations last September. 

The core issue here is that the Israeli Government 
refuses  to  commit  to  terms  of  reference  for  the 
negotiations  that  are  based  on  international  law  and 
United  Nations  resolutions,  and  that  it  frantically 
continues to intensify the building of settlements on the 
territory of the future State of Palestine. 
Settlement  activities  embody  the  core  of  the 

policy of colonial military occupation of the land of the 
Palestinian  people  and  all  of  the  brutality,  aggression 
and  racial  discrimination  against  our  people  that  that 
policy  entails.  The  policy  constitutes  a  breach  of 
international  humanitarian  law  and  United  Nations 
the  various 
25 

in 
A/66/PV.19 

resolutions. It is the primary cause of the failure of the 
peace  process,  the  collapse  of  dozens  of  opportunities 
and  the  burial  of  the  great  hopes  that  arose  from  the 
signing  of  the  Declaration  of  Principles  in  1993 
between  the  Palestine  Liberation  Organization  and 
Israel  to  achieve  a  just  peace  that  would  begin  a  new 
era for our region. 

Reports  by  United  Nations  missions  and  by 
several Israeli civil institutions and societies convey  a 
horrific picture of the size of the settlement campaign, 
which the Israeli Government does not hesitate to boast 
about  and  which  it  continues  to  execute  through  the 
systematic  confiscation  of  Palestinian  lands.  It  invites 
tenders  for  the  construction  of  thousands  of  new 
settlement  units  in  various  areas  of  the  West  Bank, 
particularly 
the  Arab  parts  of  Jerusalem.  It 
accelerates  construction  of  the  apartheid  separation 
Wall that is eating up large tracts of our land, dividing 
it into separate and isolated islands, destroying family 
life  and  communities  and  harming  the  livelihoods  of 
tens of thousands of Palestinian families.  

The occupying Power also continues to refuse to 
issue permits for our people to build in occupied East 
Jerusalem. At the same time, it intensifies its decades-
long  campaign  of  demolition  and  confiscation  of 
homes,  displacing  Palestinian  owners  and  residents 
under a multipronged policy of ethnic cleansing aimed 
at  pushing  Palestinians  away  from  their  ancestral 
homeland.  Moreover,  matters  have  reached  the  point 
where  orders  have  been  issued  to  deport  elected 
representatives from their city of Jerusalem.  

The occupying Power also continues to undertake 
excavations  that  threaten  our  Holy  Places,  and  its 
military checkpoints prevent our citizens from gaining 
access  to  their  mosques  and  churches.  It  continues  to 
besiege the Holy City with a ring of settlements and a 
separation Wall imposed to separate the Holy City from 
the  rest  of  the  cities  of  Palestine.  The  occupation  is 
racing  against  time  to  redraw  the  borders  on  our  land 
according  to  what  it  wants  and  to  impose  a  fait 
accompli  on  the  ground  that  changes  its  realities  and 
features and that is undermining the  realistic potential 
for the establishment of the State of Palestine. 

At the same time, the occupying Power continues 
to  impose  its  strict  blockade  on  the  Gaza  Strip  and  to 
target Palestinian civilians by assassinations, air strikes 
and  artillery  shelling.  It  persists  with  its  war  of 
aggression of three years ago on Gaza, which resulted 
settlement 
policy 
trees.  Today 
into  areas  of 
occupation.  That 
then  in  the  massive  destruction  of  homes,  schools, 
hospitals  and  mosques  and  thousands  of  martyrs  and 
wounded.  The  occupying  Power  also  continues  its 
incursions 
the  Palestinian  National 
Authority  through  raids,  arrests  and  killings  at  the 
checkpoints.  

In  recent  years,  the  criminal  actions  of  armed 
settler militias, who enjoy the special protection of the 
army,  have 
occupation 
intensified.  They  have 
perpetrated 
frequent  attacks  against  our  people, 
targeting  their  homes,  schools,  universities,  mosques, 
fields,  crops  and 
they  killed  one 
Palestinian who was protesting peacefully. Despite our 
repeated  warnings,  the  Israeli  authorities  have  not 
acted  to  curb  those  attacks,  and  we  hold  them  fully 
responsible for the crimes of the settlers. 
Those are just a few examples of the policy of the 

Israeli 
is 
responsible  for  the  repeated  failure  of  the  successive 
international  attempts  to  salvage  the  peace  process. 
The policy will destroy the chances of achieving a two-
State  solution,  upon  which  there  is  an  international 
consensus. Here I caution, and I caution aloud, that the 
settlement  policy  threatens  also  to  undermine  the 
structure  of  the  Palestinian  National  Authority  and 
even to end its existence. 

In  addition,  we  now  face  new  conditions  not 
previously imposed, conditions that will transform the 
raging  conflict  in  our  inflamed  region  into  a  religious 
conflict,  one  that  will  be  a  threat  to  the  future  of  a 
million  and  a  half  Palestinians  who  are  citizens  of 
Israel. We reject that eventuality; it is impossible for us 
to accept being dragged into it. 

All  of  those  unilateral  Israeli  actions  in  our 
country  are  aimed  at  perpetuating  the  occupation. 
Israel has re-established the civil and military authority 
in the West Bank by a unilateral action, and its military 
authorities  determine  whether  or  not  a  Palestinian 
citizen  has  the  right  to  reside  in  any  part  of  the 
Palestinian territory. Israel is the entity that decides to 
confiscate  our  land  and  our  water  and  to  obstruct  our 
movement and the movement of goods, and indeed our 
whole  destiny.  All  of  that  is  unilateral.  Yet  Israel 
complains  of  unilateralism  —  despite  our  agreements 
with it, which forbid unilateral individual actions.  

In 1974, our leader the late Yasser Arafat came to 
this  Hall  and  assured  the  members  of  the  General 
Assembly  of  our  affirmative  pursuit  for  peace,  urging 
26 

11-51185 


the  United  Nations  to  realize  the  inalienable  national 
rights of the Palestinian people, stating: “Do not let the 
olive branch fall from my hand.” (A/PV.2282, para. 82)  

In  1988,  President  Arafat  again  addressed  the 
General Assembly, which  convened in  Geneva to hear 
him.  There  he  submitted 
the  Palestinian  peace 
programme  adopted by the Palestine National Council 
at  its  session  held  that  year  in  Algeria.  When  we 
adopted that programme, we were taking a painful and 
very difficult step for all of us, especially those of us, 
including myself, who during the 1948 Al-Nakba were 
forced  to  leave  their  homes  and  their  towns  and 
villages,  carrying  only  some  of  our  belongings  — 
along with our grief and our memories and the keys to 
our  homes  —  to  camps  of  exile  and  diaspora.  That 
catastrophic exodus was one of the worst operations of 
uprooting,  destruction  and  removal  of  a  vibrant  and 
cohesive  society  that  had  been  contributing  in  a 
pioneering and leading way to the cultural, educational 
and economic renaissance of the Arab Middle East. 

Still, because we believe in peace, because of our 
commitment  to  international  legitimacy  and  because 
we had the courage to make difficult decisions for our 
people,  and  in  the  absence  of  absolute  justice,  we 
decided to adopt the path of relative justice, justice that 
is possible and could correct part of the grave historical 
injustice  committed  against  our  people.  Thus,  we 
agreed to establish the State of Palestine on only 22 per 
cent of the territory of historical Palestine — on all the 
Palestinian  territory  occupied  by  Israel  in  1967.  By 
taking  that  historic  step,  which  was  welcomed  by  the 
States  of  the  world,  we  made  a  major  concession  in 
order  to  achieve  a  historic  compromise  that  would 
allow peace to be made in the land of peace. 

In  the  years  that  followed,  from  the  Madrid 
Conference and the Washington negotiations leading to 
the  Oslo  agreement,  which  we  signed  18  years  ago  in 
the White House garden and which was linked with the 
letters of mutual recognition — mutual recognition — 
between  the  PLO  and  Israel,  we  persevered  and  dealt 
positively and responsibly with all efforts aimed at the 
achievement  of  a  lasting  peace  agreement. Yet,  as  we 
said  earlier,  every  initiative,  every  conference,  every 
new  round  of  negotiations  and  every  movement  was 
shattered  on 
the  Israeli  settlement 
expansion project. 

the  Palestine  Liberation 
behalf 
Organization  —  the  sole  legitimate  representative  of 
the  rock  of 
On 
of 
A/66/PV.19
The  goal  of 
is 
the  Palestinian  people 
the  Palestinian  people,  which  will  remain  so  until  the 
end  of  the  conflict  in  all  its  aspects  and  until  the 
resolution  of  all  final  status  issues  —  I  affirm  the 
following points.  

the 
realization  of  their  inalienable  national  rights  and  of 
their 
independent  State  of  Palestine,  with  East 
Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  on  all  the  land  of  the  West 
Bank,  including  East  Jerusalem  and  the  Gaza  Strip, 
which Israel occupied in the June 1967 war. This goal 
must be realized in conformity with the resolutions of 
international legitimacy and with the achievement of a 
just  and  agreed-upon  solution  to  the  Palestine  refugee 
issue  in  accordance  with  General Assembly resolution 
194  (III),  as  stipulated  in  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative. 
That  Initiative  presented  the  consensus  Arab  and 
Islamic  vision  to  resolve  the  core  of  the  Arab-Israeli 
conflict  and  to  achieve  the  just  and  comprehensive 
peace  to  which  we  are  committed  and  are  working 
towards.  

We  are  committed  to  this. Achieving  this  much-
desired  peace  also  requires  the  release  of  political 
prisoners,  prisoners  of 
freedom  and  Palestinian 
detainees in Israeli prisons without delay. 

Secondly, the PLO and the Palestinian people are 
committed  to  renouncing  violence  and  reject  and 
condemn  terrorism  in  all  its  forms,  especially  State 
terrorism,  including  terrorism  by  settlers.  We  also 
adhere  to  all  agreements  signed  between  the  PLO  and 
Israel. 
Thirdly,  we  are  committed  to  the  option  of 

in 
negotiating  a 
accordance  with 
international 
legitimacy.  I  affirm  here  that  the  Palestine  Liberation 
Organization  is  ready  to  return  immediately  to  the 
negotiating  table  on  the  basis  of  the  adopted  terms  of 
reference  and  consistent  with  international  legitimacy 
and a complete cessation of settlement activities. 
Fourthly,  our  people  will  continue  their  popular 

peaceful  resistance 
its 
settlement  and  apartheid  policies,  and  its  construction 
of the racist separation Wall, and they receive support 
for their resistance that is consistent with international 
humanitarian  law  and  international  conventions.  They 
have  the  support  of  peace  activists  from  Israel  and 
around  the  world,  reflecting  an  impressive,  inspiring 
and  courageous  example  of  the  strength  of  this 
defenceless  people,  armed  only  with  their  dreams, 
the  Israeli  occupation, 
lasting  solution 
resolutions  of 
to 
the  conflict 
the 
to 
11-51185 

27 

A/66/PV.19 

courage, hope and slogans in the face of bullets, tanks, 
tear gas and bulldozers. 

Fifthly, when we bring our plight and our case to 
this  international  forum,  it  is  a  confirmation  of  our 
reliance on the political and diplomatic option and is a 
confirmation  of  the  fact  that  we  do  not  undertake 
unilateral steps. Our efforts and moves are not aimed at 
isolating Israel or at delegitimizing it; rather, we want 
to  gain  legitimacy  for  the  cause  of  the  people  of 
Palestine.  We  aim  to  delegitimize  only  the  settlement 
activities, the occupation and apartheid and the logic of 
ruthless force, and we believe that all the countries of 
the world stand with us in this regard. 

I  am  here  to  say  on  behalf  of  the  Palestinian 
people  and  the  Palestine  Liberation  Organization  that 
we extend our hand to the Israeli Government and the 
Israeli  people  for  peacemaking.  I  say  to  them:  let  us 
urgently build together a future for our children where 
they can enjoy freedom, security and prosperity. Let us 
build  bridges  of  dialogue  instead  of  checkpoints  and 
walls  of  separation.  Let  us  build  cooperative  relations 
based  on  parity,  equity  and  friendship  between  two 
neighbouring  States  —  Palestine  and  Israel  —  instead 
of  policies  based  on  occupation,  settlement,  war  and 
elimination of the other. 

Despite the unquestionable right of our people to 
self-determination  and  to  the  establishment  of  an 
independent  State,  as  stipulated 
international 
resolutions,  we  have  accepted  over  the  past  few  years 
to  engage  in  what  appeared  to  be  a  test  of  our 
worthiness, entitlement and eligibility. During the past 
two  years,  our  national  Authority  has  implemented  a 
programme  to  build  our  State  institutions.  Despite  the 
extraordinary situation and the obstacles imposed on us 
by Israel, a serious and extensive project was launched 
that  has  included  the  implementation  of  plans  to 
enhance  and  advance  the  judiciary  and  the  apparatus 
for 
the 
development of administrative, financial and oversight 
systems; 
the  performance  of 
institutions;  and  enhancing  self-reliance  to  reduce  the 
need for foreign aid.  

With the support of brotherly Arab countries and 
donors  from  friendly  countries,  for  which  we  are 
thankful, a number of large infrastructure projects have 
been  implemented,  focused  on  various  aspects  of 
services,  with 
and 
marginalized  areas.  In  the  midst  of  this  massive 
the  maintenance  of  order  and  security; 
the  upgrading  of 
attention 
special 
rural 
in 
to 
national  project,  we  have  been  strengthening  what  we 
wish  to  be  the  features  of  our  future  State:  the 
preservation  of  security  for  citizens  and  public  order; 
the promotion of judicial authority and the rule of law; 
strengthening  the  role  of  women  via  legislation,  laws 
and  participation;  ensuring  the  protection  of  public 
freedoms  and  strengthening  the  role  of  civil  society 
institutions; and institutionalizing rules and regulations 
for  ensuring  accountability  and  transparency  in  the 
work of our ministries and departments; to entrenching 
the  pillars  of  democracy  as  the  basis  of  Palestinian 
political life. 

When division struck the unity of our homeland, 
our people and our institutions, we were determined to 
adopt dialogue as a path to the restoration of our unity. 
We  succeeded  months  ago 
in  achieving  national 
reconciliation,  and  we  hope  that  its  implementation 
will  be  accelerated  in  the  coming  weeks.  The  core 
pillar  of  this  reconciliation  involved  turning  to  the 
people through legislative and presidential elections, to 
be conducted within a year, because the State we want 
is one characterized by the rule of law, the exercise of 
democracy, the protection of the freedoms and equality 
of  all  citizens  without  any  discrimination,  and  the 
transfer of power through the ballot box. 

We believe that the reports issued recently by the 
United  Nations,  the  World  Bank,  the Ad  Hoc  Liaison 
Committee  for 
the  Coordination  of  International 
Assistance 
the 
International  Monetary  Fund  have  confirmed  and 
lauded  what  has  been  accomplished,  and  have 
considered it an exceptional and unprecedented model. 
The consensus conclusion of the AHLC a few days ago 
here,  in  this  very  city,  described  what  has  been 
accomplished  as  a  remarkable  international  success 
story  and  confirmed 
the 
Palestinian  people  and 
the 
immediate independence of the State of Palestine. That 
was a testimonial from the international community.  
I do not believe that anyone with even a shred of 

conscience  could  reject  our  application  for  full 
membership  in  the  United  Nations  and  our  admission 
as an independent State. 

It is no longer possible to redress the issue of the 
blocked  horizon  of  the  peace  talks  with  the  same 
means and methods that have been repeatedly tried and 
have proved unsuccessful in past years. 
readiness  of 
institutions  for 
to  Palestinians 
(AHLC) 
their 
and 
full 
the 
28 

11-51185 
and 
and 
the  General  Assembly 



The crisis is far too deep to be neglected; it is far 
more dangerous and critical to simply be circumvented 
or  to  postpone  its  inevitable  explosion.  It  is  neither 
possible,  nor  practical  nor  acceptable  to  return  to 
conducting  business  as  usual,  as  if  everything  were 
fine.  It  is  futile  to  go  into  negotiations  without  clear 
parameters, terms of reference, credibility or a specific 
timetable. Negotiations will be meaningless as long as 
the  occupation  army  on  the  ground  continues  to 
entrench  its  occupation  instead  of  rolling  it  back,  and 
to  change  the  demography  of  our  country  in  order  to 
create a new basis on which to alter the borders. That is 
totally unacceptable. 

This  is  the  moment  of  truth.  Our  people  are 
waiting to hear the world’s answer. Will it allow Israel 
to continue the last occupation in the world? We are the 
last people to remain under occupation. Will the world 
allow Israel to occupy us forever and to remain a State 
above  the  law  and  accountability? Will  it  allow  Israel 
to  continue  rejecting  the  resolutions  of  the  Security 
Council 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice  and  the  positions  of  the 
overwhelming  majority  of  countries  in  the  world?  Is 
this acceptable? 

The heart of the crisis in our region is very simple 
and  clear. There  are  those  who  believe  that  we  are  an 
unnecessary  people  in  the  Middle  East  and  those  who 
believe that there is in fact a missing State that needs to 
be established immediately. I come before the General 
Assembly  today  from  the  Holy  Land,  the  land  of 
Palestine, the land of divine messages, ascension of the 
Prophet Muhammad and the birthplace of Jesus Christ, 
to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Palestinian  people,  in  the 
homeland and in the diaspora, and to say, after 63 years 
of  suffering  the  ongoing  Al-Nakba:  enough,  enough, 
enough.  

It is time  for  the Palestinian people to gain their 
freedom and  independence. The time has come to end 
the  suffering  and  the  plight  of  millions  of  Palestinian 
refugees  in  the  homeland  and  the  diaspora,  some  of 
whom have been forced to seek refuge more than once 
in  different  places  of 
the  world, 
their 
displacement, and to realize their rights. 

At  a  time  when  the  Arab  peoples  affirm  their 
quest for democracy — in what is now called the Arab 
Spring  —  the  time  has  also  come  for  the  Palestinian 
Spring, the time for independence. The time has come 
for our men, women and children to live normal lives; 
to  end 
11-51185 

A/66/PV.19
for  them  to  be  able  to  sleep  without  waiting  for  the 
worst that the next day might bring; for mothers to be 
assured  that  their  children  will  return  home  without 
fear of being killed, arrested or humiliated; for students 
to  be  able  to  go  to  their  schools  and  universities 
without checkpoints obstructing them.  

The  time  has  come  for  sick  people  to  be  able  to 
reach hospitals normally, and for our farmers to be able 
to tend their rich soil without fear that the occupier will 
seize  their  land  and  water,  which  the  separation  wall 
prevents access to, and without fear of the settlers with 
their  guard  dogs  who  attack  Palestinians.  They  build 
their  settlements  on  our  lands  and  uproot  and  burn 
olive  trees  that  have  existed  in  Palestine  for  hundreds 
of  years.  The  time  has  come  for  the  thousands  of 
prisoners  of  conscience  and  freedom  to  be  released 
from  prisons  and  return  to  their  families  and  their 
children and become a part of building their homeland, 
for the freedom of which they have sacrificed so much. 

My people want to exercise their right to enjoy a 
normal life like the rest of humankind. They believe in 
what our great poet Mahmoud Darwish said: “Standing 
here,  staying  here,  permanent  here,  eternal  here,  and 
we have one goal, one goal, one goal ─ to be. And we 
shall be.” 

We profoundly appreciate and value the positions 
of  all  the  States  that  have  supported  our  struggle  and 
our  rights  and  recognized  the  State  of  Palestine 
following the Declaration of Independence in 1988, as 
well as those that have recently recognized the State of 
Palestine  and  upgraded 
level  of  Palestine’s 
representation in their capitals. I also salute Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon, who spoke the truth a few days 
ago when he said that the Palestinian State should have 
been established years ago. 

The General Assembly may rest assured that such 
support  for  our  people  is  more  valuable  to  them  than 
anyone  can  imagine,  for  it  makes  them  feel  that 
someone  is  listening  to  their  narrative  and  that  their 
tragedy,  the  horrors  of  Al-Nakba  and  the  occupation, 
under  which  they  have  suffered  terribly,  are  not  being 
ignored. It reinforces their hope and belief that justice 
is possible in this world. The loss of hope is the most 
ferocious enemy of peace, and despair is the strongest 
ally of extremism. 

The time has come for my courageous and proud 
people,  after  decades  of  displacement,  colonial 
occupation  and  ceaseless  suffering,  to  live  like  other 
the 
29 

international 
the  Earth,  free 
in  a  sovereign  and 
A/66/PV.19 

peoples  of 
independent homeland. 

Mr.  President,  I  would  like  to  inform  you  that, 
before  delivering  this  statement,  I,  in  my  capacity  as 
President of the State of Palestine and Chairman of the 
the  Palestine  Liberation 
Executive  Committee  of 
Organization,  submitted 
to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon an application for the admission of Palestine 
as a full Member of the United Nations on the basis of 
the 4 June 1967 borders, with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its 
capital. 

I  hold  in  my  hands  a  copy  of  the  application.  I 
call upon the Secretary-General to expedite transmittal 
of our request to the Security Council, and I call upon 
the  members  of  the  Council  to  vote  in  favour  of  our 
full  membership.  I  also  appeal  to  the  States  that  have 
not yet done so to recognize the State of Palestine. 

The support of the countries of the world for our 
endeavour is a victory for rights, freedom, justice, law 
and 
provide 
tremendous  support  for  the  peace  option  and  enhance 
the  negotiations’  chances  of  success.  The  Assembly’s 
assistance  and  support  for  the  establishment  of  the 
State  of  Palestine  and  for  its  admission  to  the  United 
Nations  as  a  full  Member  State  are  the  greatest 
contribution to peacemaking in the land  of peace,  and 
throughout the world. 
I have come here today carrying a message from 

a  courageous  and  proud  people.  Palestine 
is 
experiencing  its  rebirth.  That  is  my  message.  May  all 
the  people  of  the  world  stand  with  the  people  of 
Palestine  now  as  they  march  steadfastly  to  meet  their 
appointment  with  history,  freedom  and  independence. 
And I hope that we will not have long to wait.  

the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Chairman  of  the 
the  Palestine  Liberation 
Executive  Committee  of 
Organization 
the  Palestinian 
Authority, for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Mahmoud  Abbas,  Chairman  of  the  Executive 
Committee  of  the  Palestine  Liberation  Organization 
and  President  of  the  Palestinian  Authority,  was 
escorted from the rostrum. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
and  President  of 
legitimacy. 
It  will 

30 



  Address by Mr. Yoshihiko Noda, Prime Minister 
of Japan 
The  President: The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

address by the Prime Minister of Japan. 

I  have  great  pleasure 
Mr.  Yoshihiko  Noda,  Prime  Minister  of  Japan, 
was escorted to the rostrum.  
The  President: 

in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Yoshihiko Noda, Prime 
Minister  of  Japan,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the 
General Assembly. 
Mr.  Noda  (Japan)  (spoke  in  Japanese;  English 

text provided by the delegation): I would like to begin 
by  congratulating  Mr. Al-Nasser  on  his  assumption  of 
the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
sixth  session.  I  express  my  gratitude  to  Mr.  Joseph 
Deiss  for  his  devoted  efforts  during  his  tenure  as 
President  of  the Assembly  at  the  sixty-fifth  session.  I 
would also like to pay my deep respects to Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon for his leadership. 

Mr. Mayr-Harting (Austria), Vice-President, took 
the Chair. 

This has been a year of  extraordinary challenges 
for  Japan.  A  little  more  than  six  months  have  passed 
since  the  Great  East  Japan  Earthquake  struck  Japan. 
Nearly  20,000  people  were  killed  or  remain  missing, 
and  nearly  40,000  who  were  forced  to  evacuate 
continue to endure inconvenience in their daily lives. I 
am  truly  proud  to  see  the  noble  spirit  of  the  Japanese 
people  manifest  itself  even  amid  such  despair  and 
hardship. At the same time, I have been deeply moved 
by the strong feelings of compassion shown by people 
the  world  over 
towards  Japan.  There  are  many 
unforgettable stories. 

Ms.  Rita  Retnaningtyas,  an  Indonesian  nurse 
candidate and trainee at the Miyagi Hospital, evacuated 
120  patients  from  the  hospital  to  a  safer  location  just 
before the arrival of the tsunami. She stayed on at the 
hospital for several days, taking care of the patients in 
the absence of electricity and water. 

In  Brazil,  the  children  of  a  small  rural  town 
collected change and sent their contributions to us in a 
tin  can.  I  heard  that,  when  asked  why,  one  of  the 
children  answered  that  it  was  because  Japan,  a  friend 
of Brazil, was suffering. 
University students in Kenya gathered in Nairobi 

in memory of Japanese victims of the earthquake. They 
11-51185 
lives  of 
those  outside 


sang  in  chorus  the  popular  Japanese  song  known 
outside  Japan  as  “Sukiyaki”  —  whose  original 
Japanese  title  reads  “Let  Us  Walk  Looking  Up”  — 
saying  that  they  wished  to  deliver  the  song  to  the 
Japanese people. 

Those are only a few such stories among tens of 
thousands.  The  world  expressed  friendship,  solidarity 
and  praise  for  the  Japanese  people  immediately  after 
the  earthquake.  On  behalf  of  the  people  of  Japan,  I 
express  my  heartfelt  gratitude  for  the  helping  hands 
extended from all over the world. These bonds between 
Japan and the international community will be forever 
remembered by the Japanese. 

Since  11  March,  the  sounds  of  recovery  have 
echoed  throughout  the  Tohoku  region  of  Japan.  The 
Government  of  Japan  has  exerted  every  effort  to 
restore and reconstruct the disaster-affected areas. The 
daily 
the  affected  areas, 
including 
the  metropolitan  area  of  Tokyo,  have 
returned  almost  to  normal.  The  infrastructure  and 
economy  of  the  coastal  areas  of  Tohoku,  which  were 
washed away by the tsunami, are recovering. Damaged 
supply  chains  are  close  to  full  restoration.  We  have 
been  sharply  reminded  of  the  role  that  Japanese 
companies, 
and  medium-sized 
enterprises, play in sustaining the growth of the global 
economy. 

We are making steady progress towards securing 
stable control of the situation at the Fukushima Daiichi 
nuclear  power  stations  of  the  Tokyo  Electric  Power 
Company.  Currently,  we  are  focusing  our  efforts  on 
moving  up  the  existing  target  period  to  achieve  cold 
shutdown  status  by  the  end  of  this  year. A  number  of 
other challenges remain to be addressed, including the 
removal of debris and rebuilding of the livelihoods of 
the  Japanese  people  in  the  affected  areas.  We  will 
continue  to  be  fully  engaged  in  the  restoration  and 
reconstruction  efforts  as  our  highest  priority  task  so 
that Japan’s renewal can be realized without delay.  

As the new leader of Japan, I am deeply honoured 
to discuss and share Japan’s ambitions for the world’s 
future,  as  well  as  Japan’s  diplomatic  vision,  with  all 
those  in  attendance  here  today  at  this  meeting  of  the 
General Assembly.  

The  world  is  undergoing  tremendous  changes, 
including those now under way in the Middle East and 
North  Africa,  which  have  been  brought  about  by  the 
including 
small 
A/66/PV.19
their 
resulting  common 
peoples’  awakening  and 
awareness. 

Through its experience of the massive earthquake 
in  March,  Japan  was  again  made  aware  of  the 
importance  of  its  bonds  with  the  people  of  the  world. 
We  have  come  to  fully  realize  the  importance  of  the 
responsibility  to  society  that  is  fulfilled  by  each 
individual.  We  have  never  felt  more  strongly  the 
significance  of  promoting  human  security.  I  am 
resolved to implement Japanese diplomacy by working 
closely  with  all  the  world  leaders  here  at  the  United 
Nations,  with  the  determination  to  make  a  substantive 
contribution  to  overcoming  the  challenges  that  the 
world faces and shaping a brighter future for humanity. 

Allow me to touch on Japan’s efforts to help the 
world  economy  grow.  Japan  has  a  long  history  of 
assisting  developing  countries  to  create  prosperous 
societies  through  nation-building  and  human-resource 
development. From our own experience, we understand 
very  well  that  the  engine  of  economic  growth  is  a 
strong middle class. In order to strengthen that middle 
class,  we  must  construct  a  social  framework  within 
which  all  individuals  can  strengthen  their  capacities 
and develop them to the full. In this regard, Japan will 
continue  to  actively  support  developing  countries 
through its official development assistance. 

We  must  not  let  the  current  global  economic 
uncertainty  and  financial  unrest  hamper  the  efforts  of 
the  international  community  to  achieve  growth.  It  is 
vital  that  all  countries  cooperate  in  order  to  bring 
harmony  out  of  the  current  chaos.  I  myself  am 
committed to doing my best as the new leader of Japan. 
Achieving  economic  growth  in  tandem  with  fiscal 
health  is  the  most  crucial  challenge  confronting  the 
world at the present time. Japan will press ahead with 
its 
sustainability. 
Meanwhile,  as  we  recognize  that  revitalizing  the 
Japanese  economy  is  directly  linked  to  rebuilding  the 
world  economy,  we  will  work  on  strengthening 
industrial 
infrastructure,  employment  and  energy 
conservation  in  our  efforts  to  achieve  a  full  recovery 
from  the  earthquake  disaster.  In  the  mid-to-long  term, 
we intend to further reinforce partnerships between the 
Japanese  and  other  global  economies.  It  is  also 
important  that  trade  activities  not  be  disturbed  by 
excessive currency volatility. 

Furthermore,  in  order  to  help  realize  sustainable 
growth  of  the  Japanese  economy,  we  will  work  to 
restoring 
targets 
fiscal 
for 
11-51185 

31 

these  goals 
to  achieving 
A/66/PV.19 

achieve a low-carbon society and a transition to a green 
economy.  The  key 
is 
technological  innovation  in  the  areas  of  renewable 
energies,  saving  energy  and  the  clean  use  of  fossil 
fuels,  all  of  which  are  considered  part  of  green 
innovation. By next summer, the Government of Japan 
will  have  created  a  new  strategy  and  plan  for  the 
composition  of  Japan’s  mid-  to  long-term  energy  use, 
aimed  at  making  a  bold  shift  on  energy  policy.  Japan 
will also further improve on its excellent, safe, secure 
and environmentally friendly technologies, represented 
by  energy-efficient  houses  and  electric  appliances  and 
vehicles,  contributing  to  the  growth  of  the  global 
economy  and  to  a  brighter  future  for  all  during  the 
discussions  leading  up  to  the  2012  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development. 

Japan will throw all its efforts into seeking a safe 
and  brighter  future.  The  run-up  height,  which  is  the 
maximum  onshore  vertical  height  above  sea  level,  of 
the tsunami that hit the Tohoku district reached as high 
as 40 metres, the highest in Japan in recorded history. 
We have learned that we must be very well prepared. In 
that  regard,  there  are  contributions  that  Japan,  with 
such  experience  behind  it,  is  uniquely  qualified  to 
make.  The  first  lesson  to  be  learned  from  Japan’s 
recent  tragedy  is  the  importance  of  international 
cooperation in disaster risk reduction. 
long  history  of  combating  and 

overcoming natural disasters. In fact, we have actively 
supported the response efforts to the disasters that have 
occurred  in  recent  years  in  areas  such  as  Sumatra, 
Sichuan in China, Haiti and New Zealand. As a country 
that  has  learned  to  coexist  harmoniously  with  nature, 
we  are  prepared 
the  world  our 
accumulated  knowledge  and  skills.  As  a  first  step, 
Japan  will  hold  an  international  conference  in  the 
disaster-stricken  Tohoku  region  next  year  designed  to 
improve  international  cooperation  on  coping  with 
natural  disasters.  To  build  on  the  outcome  of  that 
conference,  Japan  proposes  to  host  the  Third  United 
Nations  World  Conference  on  Disaster  Reduction  in 
2015,  and  plans 
the 
international community in creating a disaster-resistant 
world. 

its  acquired 
knowledge  and  experience  in  the  field  of  nuclear 
safety.  I  welcomed  yesterday’s  high-level  meeting  on 
this  issue  held  at  the  initiative  of  the  Secretary-
General.  Following  the  nuclear  accident,  Japan  has 
to  share  with 
Japan  hopes 
leading  role 
We  have  a 
Next, 
to 
take  a 
in 
to 
share 
Global 
regrettably,  are 
threats  continue 
some  countries, 
to  proliferate.  It 
implemented  emergency  safety  measures  and  further 
strengthened  its  nuclear  energy  regulation  regime.  In 
yesterday’s  meeting,  I  expressed  my  resolve 
to 
contribute  positively  to  the  reinforcement  of  global 
nuclear power safety, drawing on our experiences with 
the accident. 

Next  year,  Japan  will  co-host  an  international 
conference  with 
the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency to share the results of the overall assessment of 
the accident in comprehensive detail, and to contribute 
to  the  various  measures  taken  by  the  international 
community  to  raise  standards  for  nuclear  safety. 
Although 
still 
imposing undue restrictions on imports from Japan, our 
Government will continue to provide prompt, accurate 
and  transparent  information  on  this  matter.  I  would 
request  that  all  countries  make  sensible  judgements 
based on scientific evidence. 

is 
essential  to  deal  with  the  root  causes  of  such  threats 
while taking steps to address them. Japan will continue 
to  respond  to  those  challenges  in  order  to  ensure  a 
brighter  and  more  peaceful  future.  With  regard  to  the 
issue  of  piracy  off  the  coast  of  Somalia,  Japan  will 
remain  actively  engaged  in  combating  the  problem 
through  continued  deployment  to  the  area  of  two 
destroyers and two patrol aircraft. 

Japan  intends  to  enhance  its  efforts  to  eradicate 
terrorism  and  its  causes.  Though  a  decade  has  passed 
since the 9/11 attacks, our collective sorrow has yet to 
heal. And  in  that  connection,  I  would  like  to  express 
my  sincere  condolences  on  the  death  of  Mr.  Rabbani, 
Chairman of Afghanistan’s High Peace Council. Japan 
reiterates its firm condemnation of such atrocious acts 
of terrorism. In order to prevent Afghanistan from once 
again  becoming  a  breeding  ground  for  terrorism,  we 
will  continue  to  confront  the  problem  with  strong 
resolve.  Japan  has  expressed 
to 
providing  approximately  $5  billion  in  assistance  over 
five  years  beginning  in  2009,  focusing  on  security, 
reintegrating  former 
into  society,  and 
development,  and  will  continue  to  implement  that 
commitment. 

United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions  are  being 
dispatched  to  fragile  and  conflict-prone  States.  Japan 
will  contribute  to  peacebuilding  efforts  by  actively 
participating  in  those  operations.  We  must  further 
improve  the  conditions  that  promote  that  goal. At  the 
its  commitment 
insurgents 
32 

11-51185 
issues. 
In  particular, 
the  abduction 


same time, we will do our best to achieve the ideal of a 
world without nuclear weapons through such efforts as 
the  multi-country  non-proliferation  and  disarmament 
initiative. 

The nuclear and missile issues of the Democratic 
People’s Republic of  Korea pose  a threat to the  entire 
international  community,  and  Japan  continues  to  urge 
that  country  to  take  concrete  steps  towards  resolving 
those 
issue 
represents a violation of basic human rights. It is thus 
an  issue  of  universal  import  and  a  matter  of  great 
concern  for  the  entire  international  community.  Japan 
is committed to exerting all possible efforts to achieve 
the return of all the victims at the earliest possible date, 
through  strengthened  coordination  with  other  Member 
States. 

With  regard  to  relations  between  Japan  and  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, Japan intends 
to  maintain  its  efforts  to  comprehensively  resolve  the 
outstanding  issues  of  concern,  settle  the  unfortunate 
past  and  normalize  relations,  in  accordance  with  the 
Japan-Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea 
Pyongyang  Declaration  of  2007.  Japan  urges  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
take 
positive  steps  in  order  that  our  countries  may  have  a 
dialogue toward this goal. 

In recent years, the role of the United Nations has 
taken on greater significance than ever. In order for the 
United  Nations  to  tackle  such  issues  more  effectively, 
Japan will continue to support increasing effectiveness 
and  efficiency  in  reinforcing  the  functions  of  the 
United Nations. 

Security  Council  reform  is  absolutely  necessary 
in that respect. We must revitalize the stagnated reform 
process. All Member States must proactively commit to 
the  reform  with  a  sense  of  urgency. The  credibility of 
the United Nations is at stake. Japan intends to launch 
substantive  negotiations  toward  the  reform  with  like-
minded  Members,  in  order  to  achieve  tangible  results 
during the current session. 

As  I  promised  moments  ago,  Japan  will  recover 
from the earthquake disaster and seek a peaceful, safe 
and  brighter  future,  side  by  side  with  the  leaders 
gathered here. For that purpose, Japan will maintain its 
contribution  to  the  attainment  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals, focusing on health and education. 
Moreover,  Japan  will  continue  its  contribution  to  the 
development  of  Africa  by  hosting  the  Fifth  Tokyo 
to 
A/66/PV.19
Forces 
personnel 
the  support 
intended 
International  Conference  on  African  Development  in 
2013.  Regarding 
to  enable 
developing countries to  address  climate change, Japan 
will implement its quick-start finance commitments up 
to  next  year.  Japan  will  continue  its  support  beyond 
2012. 

Today,  I  would  like  to  announce  Japan’s  new 
commitments.  First,  I  wish  to  congratulate  the  people 
of  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan  on  achieving  their 
independence,  and  provide  assurances  that  Japan  will 
extend  wherever  possible  support  for  the  nation-
building  efforts  in  South  Sudan  as  well  as  for  the 
consolidation of peace in the region. Japan is eager to 
contribute  to  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  South 
Sudan  in  the  fields  in  which  Japan  excels.  From  this 
point  of  view,  we  are  preparing  to  dispatch  Japanese 
Self-Defence 
to  Mission 
Headquarters  as  staff  officers.  Japan  is  also  interested 
in dispatching an engineering unit of our Self-Defence 
Forces,  regarding  which 
the  United  Nations  has 
expressed  high  expectations.  Japan 
therefore  will 
conduct the necessary field study as early as possible. 

Second,  Japan  will  remain  actively  involved  in 
the  international  community’s  efforts  with  regard  to 
humanitarian  crises.  One  of 
the  most  pressing 
challenges  at  present  is  the  drought  in  the  Horn  of 
Africa,  which  is  directly  affecting  the  children  of  the 
region.  To  mitigate  this  suffering  as  effectively  as 
possible, Japan will provide further humanitarian aid in 
addition 
in 
assistance that it has already implemented. 

to  announce 
concerns the Middle East and North Africa. Japan will 
support  reform  and  democratization  efforts  in  this 
region, which is now undergoing a massive change that 
is often referred to as the Arab Spring. To improve the 
employment  situation  and  support  human  resources 
development in the region, Japan is prepared to extend 
an additional  yen loan worth approximately $1 billion 
to  contribute 
for  projects 
to 
infrastructure building and industrial development.  

Moreover, we will provide support to ensure fair 
elections  in  Tunisia  and  Egypt,  where  polls  are 
scheduled to be held in autumn of this year. For a new 
Libya, Japan will support the country’s nation-building 
efforts 
international 
community,  utilizing  its  expertise  and  technological 
capacity.  At 
time,  Japan  will  deepen 
the  approximately  $100  million 
that  are  expected 
cooperation  with 
last  commitment 
the  same 
to 
The 
I  wish 
in 
the 
11-51185 

33 
including  a 
train 
that  was 
A/66/PV.19 

economic  relations  with  Middle  Eastern  and  North 
African  countries  by  further  promoting  trade  and 
investment through such means as trade insurance and 
export  loans.  As  Middle  East  peace  represents  the 
linchpin for the peace and stability of the region, Japan 
will  make  active  efforts,  such  as  extending  assistance 
to the Palestinians, for the realization of the two-State 
solution. 

To  conclude  my  statement,  I  will  touch  briefly 
upon what I have felt in the aftermath of the Great East 
Japan  Earthquake.  After  the  events  of  11  March  this 
year,  I  strongly  felt  the  magnificence  of  a  society  in 
which each individual undertakes actions in an orderly 
manner,  a  society  in  which  people  help  each  other.  In 
addition,  all  lines  of  the  Tohoku  shinkansen  bullet 
trains, 
running  at 
270 kilometres per hour at the time of the earthquake, 
made emergency stops safely, without causing a single 
injury. I believe this fact bears witness to Japan’s high 
level of technical advancement. 

I  thus  believe  in  the  strength  of  the  Japanese 
people,  which  comes  to  the  fore  most  prominently  in 
times  of  crisis.  I  am  certain  that  such  resilience,  both 
human  and  technological,  which  does  not  yield  in  the 
face of enormous difficulties, will be the very source of 
Japan’s 
international 
community. 

Let us take up the challenges for the resolution of 
the  issues  confronting  the  world  today,  with  strong 
determination  to  pave  the  way  to  a  brighter  future  for 
humanity. As the new leader of Japan, I am determined 
to make progress step by step towards a more peaceful, 
prosperous  and  positive  future,  hand  in  hand  with  the 
leaders assembled here today. 
The  people  of  Japan  as  well  as  the  Government 

are determined to overcome any and all difficulties. We 
will continue our contribution towards a brighter future 
for the people of the world. 

firm determination. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Japan 
for the statement he has just made. 

I  wish  to  close  my  statement  by  reiterating  our 
Mr. Yoshihiko Noda, the Prime Minister of Japan, 
was escorted from the rostrum. 
future  contribution 
the 



  Address by Mr. Lyonchoen Jigmi Yoezer 
Thinley, Prime Minister of the Kingdom  
of Bhutan 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear a statement by the Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Bhutan. 

Mr.  Lyonchoen  Jigmi  Yoezer  Thinley,  Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Bhutan, was escorted 
to the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Lyonchoen  Jigmi 
Yoezer  Thinley,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Bhutan,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. 
Mr.  Thinley:  My  country  is  most  happy  to 

welcome  South  Sudan  as  a  member  of  the  United 
Nations  family.  I  now  seek  the  permission  of  the 
Members to speak on the subject of happiness. 

Since  joining  the  United  Nations  41  years  ago, 
Bhutan  has  always  maintained  a  long-term  and  broad 
perspective  on  the  purpose  of  this  great  Organization, 
which is to create a secure and harmonious society. But 
in the many times that I have participated in the United 
Nations  General  Assembly  over  the  last  25  years,  I 
cannot recall a session that gave me reason for hope for 
the future of humanity, except once. That was when the 
cold  war  came  to  a  thundering  halt,  and  a  euphoric 
world  saw  it  as  the  dawn  of  a  new  era.  I  was  then  a 
young  ambassador  excited  by  the  prospects  of  peace 
dividends.  Instead,  what  followed  was  a  sense  of 
betrayal and disillusionment, as the world became ever 
more divided and insecure. 

We  gather  before  this  high  podium,  year  after 
year,  and  make  of  this  annual  gathering  a  mournful 
event.  We  speak  of  what  ought  to  be,  of  promises 
broken  and  opportunities  lost.  We  speak  of  endless 
conflicts  within  and  among  nations,  of  the  failures  of 
Governments, of frequent and devastating disasters, of 
diminishing  resources  and  fierce  competition  for  their 
control,  of  dying  ecosystems  and  new  threatening 
diseases and epidemics, and of financial calamities and 
economic  ruin.  We  speak  of  rising  unemployment, 
hopeless  poverty,  hunger  and  destitution.  And  of 
course, we talk of solutions. 

Lacking  the  political  will  and,  indeed,  clarity  of 
vision,  we  deny  with  clever  arguments  what  we  know 
to be the cause of our predicaments. So we go on doing 
11-51185 
to 

34 

that  good  economics 
that  economic  models 


what  is  irrational.  We  continue  to  acquire  arms  to 
prevent war; answer climate change with more harmful 
emissions; race to extract, produce and consume more 
in  the  face  of  depleting  resources;  fuel  faltering 
economies with debt and greed; and enable the wealthy 
to widen the deep crevasses that separate the rich from 
the  poor.  We  idealize  individualism  as  family  and 
community  crumble  amid  rising  social  dislocation, 
crime, mental illness, loneliness and suicide. 

For  too  long,  we  have  ignored  the  truth  that  the 
causes  of  all  those  problems  are  interrelated  and  that 
durable remedies must be found through a rational and 
holistic  approach.  For  too  long,  we  have  refused  to 
accept 
focused  on  gross 
domestic product have served their useful purpose and 
that we need to switch tracks. Guided by the misbelief 
that  life  satisfaction  is  about  material  pursuit  and 
accumulation  and 
is  about 
limitless growth, our economic development processes 
have  created  the  monster  of  a  consumerist  market 
economy. 

However,  the  market  gives  no  satisfaction.  It 
enslaves humanity and thrives on the insatiable nature 
of  our  greed. As  slaves,  our  value  as  individuals  and 
nations  is  measured  by  the  extent  of  our  economic 
productivity  and  consumption  capacity.  That  sad 
transformation,  from  humans  into  voracious  beasts, 
comes  at  the  cost  of  our  physical,  psychological  and 
spiritual  well-being.  It  is  destroying  our  natural  life-
support 
long-term 
survival. But that need not be so. 

Humankind  is  in  need  of  a  clear  vision  that 
transcends  the  diversity  of  our  cultures,  thoughts  and 
circumstances  and  binds  us  to  a  common  pursuit.  We 
need  a  different  development  paradigm  that  is  guided 
by  a  vision  that  is  holistic,  sustainable,  inclusive  and 
humane.  Such  a  vision  can  take  civilization  forward 
and enable it to sustain the progress that it has created 
and must continue to make. 
It  is  therefore  with  a  great  sense  of  joy  that  my 

entitled 
country  welcomed 
“Happiness: 
to 
development”. Introduced by Bhutan and sponsored by 
68 Member States, it was adopted unanimously without 
a vote in July. Through that resolution, Member States 
adopted  a  universal  goal,  while  acknowledging  the 
limitations of our conventional development processes. 
It  commits  our  nations  to  creating  the  necessary 
systems  and 
threatening  our 
resolution 
65/309, 
towards 
a 
holistic 
approach 
A/66/PV.19
to  establish 
political, social and economic conditions to enable the 
pursuit  of  happiness  by  citizens  within  a  stable 
environment. 

My  delegation  is  of  the  firm  conviction  that 
happiness  or  well-being,  as  it  is  promoted  in  my 
country,  would  be  against  a  well-developed  set  of 
indices,  a  natural  progression  from  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals,  which  aim 
the 
minimum  conditions  for  human  survival  and  the  basis 
for  development.  It  is,  indeed,  a  universal  value  that 
binds the rich and the poor, and the developed and the 
developing, and articulates the ultimate purpose of life. 
It  is  about  making  true  societal  progress  in  ways  that 
are meaningful, joyful and lasting. 

In  that  regard,  I  am  happy  to  report  that  my 
Government,  in  collaboration  with  the  United  Nations 
the  Earth 
Development  Programme, 
Institute  of 
Columbia  University  and 
leading  scientists  and 
thinkers  on  the  science  and  economics  of  happiness,
are working in concert to prepare the panel discussion 
stipulated  by  the  resolution.  Proposed  to  be  held  in 
New  York  in  the  spring  of  2012  before  the  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development,  the 
meeting will endeavour to present to Member States a 
set  of  policy  recommendations  in  their  pursuit  of 
happiness  as  they  work  in  harmonious  collaboration 
with  each  other  with  a  shared  and  clear  sense  of 
purpose. We look forward to Members’ participation in 
that meeting. 

My  delegation  remains  fully  committed  to  the 
promotion  of  a  sustainable  and  progressive  human 
civilization within a peaceful and secure environment. 
To  that  happy  end,  Bhutan  is  prepared  to  share  its 
experience  and  the  modest  development  achievements 
made  with  the  support  of  our  generous  partners.  Our 
attempts  to  promote  equitable  and  sustainable  social 
economic  growth  are  bearing  fruit  within  a  rich 
biodiversity  that  includes  a  forest  cover  that  has 
expanded  from  64  per  cent  to  81  per  cent  in  four 
decades.  Today,  Bhutan  is  the  only  country  that  has 
pledged  to  remain  carbon  neutral  forever.  Our  social 
and  cultural  values  remain  vital,  even  as  we  embrace 
globalization  and 
its  many  offerings.  We  have 
successfully  and  smoothly  transited  from  an  absolute 
monarchy to a fully fledged and vibrant democracy. 

For  those  reasons  and  out  of  a  sense  of  duty  and 
obligation, my country aspires to serve as a non-permanent 
member  on  the  Security  Council  for  the  biennium 
11-51185 

35 

A/66/PV.19 

2013-2014.  Having  been  a  member  of  the  United 
Nations  for  41  years  and  never  having  served  on  the 
Council,  while  having  fully  enjoyed  the  benefits  of 
membership, we wish to contribute as a small State for 
small  States.  We  believe  that  we  can  bring  to  the 
Security  Council  a  fresh  and  holistic  perspective  on 
peace  and  security  beyond  its  narrow  confines  and 
open it to new and innovative  approaches to fulfilling 
its important mandate. My country is of the firm belief 
that  maintaining  peace  and  security  is  not  only  about 
preventing war. It is about recognizing and forging the 
will  to  deal  with  all  forms  of  threat  to  the  survival, 
progress and happiness of human society. 

Yes,  I  speak  of  a  dream,  but  it  is  possible.  As 
leaders  and  representatives  of  our  peoples,  we  must 
dare  to  dream  and  find  the  courage  and  determination 
to pursue the highest of ideals. That is how happiness 
is to be fashioned. Blessings and good luck! 

My  country  prays  for  Members’  support  to  give 
Bhutan  an  opportunity  to  contribute  to  the  realization 
of shared dreams. I wish participants happiness. 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom of Bhutan for the statement he has just made. 
Mr.  Lyonchoen  Jigmi  Yoezer  Thinley,  Prime 

Minister of the Kingdom of Bhutan, was escorted 
from the rostrum. 


Address by Mr. Benjamin Netanyahu, Prime 
Minister of the State of Israel 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  State  of 
Israel. 

Mr.  Benjamin  Netanyahu,  Prime  Minister of  the 
State of Israel, was escorted to the rostrum. 

The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Benjamin  Netanyahu, 
Prime Minister of the State of Israel, and inviting him 
to address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Netanyahu  (Israel): Israel  has  extended  its 

hand  in  peace  from  the  moment  it  was  established 
63 years  ago.  On  behalf  of  Israel  and  the  Jewish 
people,  I  extend  that  hand  again  today.  I  extend  it  to 
the  people  of  Egypt  and  Jordan,  with  renewed 
friendship  for  neighbours  with  whom  we  have  made 
peace. I extend it to the people of Turkey, with respect 
to 
Most  especially,  I  extend  my  hand 
and  goodwill.  I  extend  it  to  the  people  of  Libya  and 
Tunisia,  with  admiration  for  those  trying  to  build  a 
democratic  future.  I  extend  it  to  the  other  peoples  of 
North Africa and the Arabian peninsula, with whom we 
want to forge a new beginning. I extend it to the people 
of Syria, Lebanon and Iran, with awe at the courage of 
those fighting brutal repression.  

the 
Palestinian  people,  with  whom  we  seek  a  just  and 
lasting peace. 
In  Israel,  our  hope  for  peace  never  wanes.  Our 

scientists, doctors and innovators apply their genius to 
improving  the  world  of  tomorrow.  Our  artists  and  our 
writers  enrich  the  heritage  of  humanity.  Now,  I  know 
that this is not exactly the image of Israel that is often 
portrayed in this Hall. After all, it was here in 1975 that 
the  age-old  yearning  of  my  people  to  restore  our 
national  life  in  our  ancient  biblical  homeland  was 
branded,  shamefully,  as  racism.  It  was  right  here  in 
1980  that  the  historic  peace  agreement  between  Israel 
and  Egypt  was  not  praised,  but  denounced.  It  is  here, 
year  after  year,  that  Israel  is  unjustly  singled  out  for 
condemnation. It is singled out for condemnation more 
often  than  all  the  nations  of  the  world  combined. 
Twenty-one  out  of  27  relevant  General  Assembly 
resolutions condemn Israel, the one true democracy in 
the Middle East.  

This is an unfortunate part of the United Nations 
institution.  It  is  the  theatre  of  the  absurd.  It  not  only 
casts Israel as the villain, it often casts real villains in 
leading 
the 
Commission  on  Human  Rights.  Saddam’s  Iraq  headed 
the Conference on Disarmament.  

One might say that is the past. Well, here is what 
is  happening  now  —  right  now,  today.  Hizbullah-
controlled  Lebanon  now  presides  over  the  Security 
Council.  This  means, 
terror 
organization  presides  over  the  body  entrusted  with 
guaranteeing the world’s security. One could not make 
this  up.  Here 
the  United  Nations,  automatic 
majorities  can  decide  anything.  They  can  decide  that 
the sun rises in the west. They can also decide — they 
have  decided  —  that  the  Western  Wall  in  Jerusalem, 
Judaism’s  holiest  place, 
is  occupied  Palestinian 
territory. 

Yet, even here in the General Assembly, the truth 
can  sometimes  break  through.  In  1984,  when  I  was 
appointed Israel’s Ambassador to the United Nations, I 
roles.  Al-Qadhafi’s  Libya 
chaired 
in  effect, 
that  a 
in 
36 

11-51185 


visited the great rabbi of Lubavitch. He said to me — 
and I do not want anyone here to be offended, because 
from personal experience of serving here, I know there 
are  many  honourable  men  and  women,  many  capable 
and  decent  people,  serving  their  nations  here  —  but 
here is what the rebbe said to me. He said, “You will be 
serving  in  a  house  of  many  lies”.  And  then  he  said, 
“Remember that, even in the darkest place, the light of 
a single candle can be seen far and wide”. Today I hope 
that  the  light  of  truth  will  shine,  if  only  for  a  few 
minutes, in a Hall that for too long has been a place of 
darkness for my country.  

As Israel’s Prime Minister, I did not come here to 
win applause. I came here to speak the truth. The truth 
is  that  Israel  wants  peace.  The  truth  is  that  I  want 
peace. The truth is that in the Middle East, at all times 
but especially during these turbulent days, peace must 
be  anchored  in  security.  The  truth  is  that  we  can 
achieve peace not through  United Nations resolutions, 
but  only  through  direct  negotiations  between  the 
parties.  The  truth  is  that  so  far  the  Palestinians  have 
refused  to  negotiate.  The  truth  is  that  Israel  wants 
peace  with  a  Palestinian  State,  but  the  Palestinians 
want  a  State  without  peace.  The  truth  is  that  the 
Assembly should not let that happen. 

When  I  first  came  here  27  years  ago,  the  world 
was  divided  between  East  and  West.  Since  then,  the 
Cold  War  ended,  great  civilizations  have  risen  from 
centuries  of  slumber,  hundreds  of  millions  have  been 
lifted  out  of  poverty,  countless  more  are  poised  to 
follow,  and  the  remarkable  thing  is  that,  so  far,  this 
monumental  historic 
largely  occurred 
peacefully.  

Yet  a  malignancy  is  now  growing  between  East 
and West that threatens the peace of all. It seeks not to 
liberate,  but  to  enslave;  not  to  build,  but  to  destroy. 
That malignancy is militant Islam. It cloaks itself in the 
mantle of a great faith, yet it murders Jews, Christians 
and  Muslims  alike  with  unforgiving  impartiality.  On 
11 September  2001,  it  killed  thousands  of  Americans 
and  left  the  twin  towers  in  smouldering  ruins.  Last 
night,  I  laid  a  wreath  on  the  9/11  memorial.  It  was 
deeply  moving.  However,  as  I  was  going  there,  one 
thing echoed in my mind: the outrageous words of the 
President of Iran at this rostrum yesterday. He implied 
that  9/11  was  an American  conspiracy.  Some  left  this 
Hall; everyone should have. 
shift  has 
11-51185 

A/66/PV.19

Since  9/11,  militant  Islamists  have  slaughtered 
countless  other  innocents  in  London  and  Madrid,  in 
Baghdad and Mumbai, in Tel Aviv and Jerusalem, and 
in every part of Israel. I believe that the greatest danger 
facing our world is that this fanaticism  will arm itself 
with nuclear weapons, and that is precisely what Iran is 
trying to do. Can we imagine that man who ranted here 
yesterday armed with nuclear weapons? 

The  international  community  must  stop  Iran 
before it is too late. If Iran is not stopped, we will all 
face  the  spectre  of  nuclear  terrorism,  and  the  Arab 
Spring  could  soon  become  an  Iranian  winter.  That 
would be a tragedy. Millions of Arabs have taken to the 
streets  to  replace  tyranny  with  liberty,  and  no  one 
would  benefit  more  than  Israel  if  those  committed  to 
freedom and peace would prevail. 

That  is  my  fervent  hope,  but  as  the  Prime 
Minister of Israel, I cannot risk the future of the Jewish 
State on wishful thinking. Leaders must see reality as it 
is, not as it ought to be. We must do our best to shape 
the future, but we cannot wish away the dangers of the 
present. 
The  world  around  Israel  is  definitely  becoming 

more dangerous. Militant Islam has already taken over 
Lebanon  and  Gaza.  It  is  determined  to  tear  apart  the 
peace  treaties  between  Israel  and  Egypt  and  between 
Israel  and  Jordan.  It  has  poisoned  many  Arab  minds 
against  Jews  and  Israel,  and  against  America  and  the 
West.  It  opposes  not  the  policies  of  Israel  but  the 
existence of Israel. 
Now,  some  argue  that  if  we  want  to  slow  down 

the  spread  of  militant  Islam,  especially  in  these 
turbulent times, Israel must hurry to make concessions, 
including  territorial  compromises.  And  this  theory 
sounds  simple.  Basically  it  goes  like  this:  leave  the 
territory  and  peace  will  be  advanced.  The  moderates 
will  be  strengthened;  the  radicals  will  be  kept  at  bay. 
And do not worry about the pesky details of how Israel 
will actually defend itself; international troops will do 
the job. 

These people say to me constantly, “Just make a 
sweeping offer, and everything will work out”. There is 
only one problem with that theory. We have tried it and 
it  has  not  worked.  In  2000,  Israel  made  a  sweeping 
peace  offer  that  met  virtually  all  the  Palestinian 
demands. Chairman Arafat rejected it. The Palestinians 
then launched a terror attack that claimed 1,000 Israeli 
lives. 
37 

left 
Israel 
When 
left  Lebanon  and  Gaza, 
A/66/PV.19 


In 2008, Prime Minister Olmert afterwards made 
an even more sweeping offer. President Abbas did not 
even respond to it. But Israel did more than just make 
sweeping  offers.  We  actually 
territory.  We 
withdrew from Lebanon in 2000 and from every square 
inch  of  Gaza  in  2005.  That  did  not  calm  the  militant 
Islamic  storm  that  threatens  us.  It  only  brought  the 
storm  closer  and  made  it  stronger.  Hizbullah  and 
Hamas  fired  thousands  of  rockets  against  our  cities 
from the very territories we had vacated.  

the 
moderates  did  not  defeat  the  radicals;  the  moderates 
were devoured by the radicals. And I regret to say that 
international  troops,  including  those  of  the  United 
Nations  Interim  Force  in  Lebanon  and  the  European 
Union Border Assistance Mission in Gaza, did not stop 
the radicals from attacking Israel. 

We left Gaza hoping for peace. We did not freeze 
the  settlements  in  Gaza;  we  uprooted  them.  We  did 
exactly what the theory says. We got out, went back to 
the  1967  borders  and  dismantled  the  settlements.  I  do 
not think people remember how far we went to achieve 
this.  We  uprooted  thousands  of  people  from  their 
homes.  We  pulled  children  out  of  their  schools  and 
their  kindergartens.  We  bulldozed  synagogues.  We 
even  moved  loved  ones  from  their  graves.  And  then, 
having  done  all  that,  we  gave  the  keys  of  Gaza  to 
President Abbas. 

The  theory  says  that  it  should  have  all  worked 
out,  and  that  President  Abbas  and  the  Palestinian 
Authority could now build a peaceful state in Gaza. We 
all  remember  that  the  entire  world  applauded  our 
withdrawal as an act of great statesmanship and a bold 
act of peace. But we did not get peace. We got war. We 
got  Iran,  which,  through  its  proxy,  Hamas,  promptly 
kicked  out  the  Palestinian  Authority.  The  Palestinian 
Authority collapsed in a day — in one day.  

President Abbas  just  said  from  this  rostrum  that 
the  Palestinians  are  armed  only  with  their  hopes  and 
dreams. Yes,  they  are  armed  with  their  hopes,  dreams 
and 10,000 missiles and Grad rockets supplied by Iran, 
not to mention the river of lethal weapons now flowing 
into  Gaza  from  the  Sinai,  from  Libya  and  from 
elsewhere. 

Thousands  of  missiles  have  already  rained  down 
on our cities. So it might be understand, given all this, 
why Israelis rightly ask, “What is to prevent this from 
happening again in the West Bank?” Most of the major 
critics 
ignore 
Israel’s 
cities  in  the  south  of  our  country  are  within  a  few 
dozen  kilometres  from  Gaza,  but  in  the  centre  of  the 
country  opposite  the  West  Bank,  our  cities  are  a  few 
hundred  metres  or  at  most  a  few  kilometres  from  the 
edge of the West Bank. 

So I want to ask: Would anyone here bring danger 
so close to their cities and families? Would they act so 
recklessly  with  the  lives  of  their  citizens?  Israel  is 
prepared to have a Palestinian State in the West Bank, 
but  we  are  not  prepared  to  have  another  Gaza  there. 
And  that  is  why  we  need  to  have  real  security 
arrangements,  which  the  Palestinians  simply  refuse  to 
negotiate with us. 
Israelis  remember  the  bitter  lessons  of  Gaza. 

Many  of 
them.  They 
irresponsibly  advise  Israel  to  go  down  this  same 
perilous path again. We read what these people say and 
it is as if nothing happened. They just repeat the same 
advice  and  the  same  formulas  as  though  none  of  this 
happened. And these critics continue to press Israel to 
make  far-reaching  concessions  without  first  assuring 
Israel’s  security.  They  praise  those  who  unwittingly 
feed  the  insatiable  crocodile  of  militant  Islam  as  bold 
statesmen.  They  cast  as  enemies  of  peace  those  of  us 
who  insist  that  we  must  first  erect  a  sturdy  barrier  to 
keep the crocodile out, or at the very least jam an iron 
bar between its gaping jaws. 

So  in  the  face  of  the  labels  and  the  libels,  Israel 
must heed better advice. It is better to receive bad press 
than  a  good  eulogy,  and  better  still  would  be  a  fair 
press whose sense of history extends beyond breakfast 
and 
security 
concerns.  I  believe  that  in  serious  peace  negotiations, 
these  needs  and  concerns  can  be  properly  addressed, 
but they will not be addressed without negotiations.  

And the needs are many, because Israel is such a 
tiny  country.  Without  Judea  and  Samaria  —  the  West 
Bank — Israel is all of nine miles wide. I want to put 
that in perspective for all of us in this city. It is about 
two-thirds  the  length  of  Manhattan.  It  is  the  distance 
between  Battery  Park  and  Columbia  University.  And 
let  us  not  forget  that  the  people  who  live  in  Brooklyn 
and  New  Jersey  are  considerably  nicer  than  some  of 
Israel’s neighbours.  

So  how  does  one  protect  such  a  tiny  country, 
surrounded  by  people  sworn  to  its  destruction  and 
armed  to  the  teeth  by  Iran?  Obviously,  one  cannot 
defend  it  from  within  that  narrow  space  alone.  Israel 
recognizes 
legitimate 
Israel’s 
that 
38 

11-51185 
It 
international  airport 
is  a 
talked  about  withdrawal 


needs  greater  strategic  depth,  and  that  is  exactly  why 
Security Council resolution 242 (1967) did not require 
Israel  to  leave  all  of  the  territories  it  captured  in  the 
Six-Day  War. 
from 
territories to secure and defensible boundaries. And to 
defend  itself,  Israel  must  therefore  maintain  a  long-
term Israeli military presence in critical strategic areas 
in the West Bank. 

I explained this to President Abbas. He answered 
that  if  a  Palestinian  State  was  to  be  a  sovereign 
country, it could never accept such arrangements. Why 
not?  The  United  States  has  had  troops  in  Japan, 
Germany  and  South  Korea  for  more  than  a  half  a 
century.  Britain  has  an  air  base  in  Cyprus.  France  has 
forces  in  three  independent  African  nations.  None  of 
those States claim that they are not sovereign countries.  

There  are  many  other  vital  security  issues  that 
also  must  be  addressed.  Take  the  issue  of  airspace. 
Again,  Israel’s  small  dimensions  create  huge  security 
problems.  The  United  States  can  be  crossed  by  jet 
airplane in six hours. To fly across Israel, it takes three 
minutes.  So  is  Israel’s  tiny  airspace  to  be  chopped  in 
half and given to a Palestinian State not at peace with 
Israel?  

few 
kilometres  from  the  West  Bank.  Without  peace,  will 
our  planes  become  targets  for  anti-aircraft  missiles 
placed in the adjacent Palestinian State? And how will 
we  stop  the  smuggling  into  the  West  Bank?  It  is  not 
merely the West Bank; it is the West Bank mountains, 
which dominate the coastal plain below where most of 
Israel’s  population  sits.  How  could  we  prevent  the 
smuggling into those mountains of missiles that  could 
be fired at our cities?  
I  bring  up  these  problems  because  they  are  not 

theoretical  problems.  They  are  very  real,  and  for 
Israelis,  they  are  life-and-death  matters.  All  of  these 
potential cracks in Israel’s security have to be sealed in 
a  peace  agreement  before  a  Palestinian  State  is 
declared,  not  afterwards,  because  if  it  is  left  until 
afterwards they will not be sealed. And these problems 
will explode in our face and explode the peace.  
The  Palestinians  should  first  make  peace  with 

Israel  and  then  get  their  State.  But  I  also  want  to  say 
this. After such a peace agreement is signed, Israel will 
not be the last country to  welcome a Palestinian State 
as a new Member of the United Nations. We will be the 
first.  
Our  major 
A/66/PV.19

There  is  one  more  thing.  Hamas  has  been 
violating international law by holding our soldier Gilad 
Shalit  captive  for  five  years.  They  have  not  allowed 
even one Red Cross visit. He is held in a dungeon, in 
darkness,  against  all  international  norms.  Gilad  Shalit 
is  the  son  of  Aviva  and  Noam  Shalit.  He  is  the 
grandson of Zvi Shalit, who escaped the Holocaust by 
coming  to  the  land  of  Israel  as  a  boy  in  the  1930s. 
Gilad  Shalit  is  the  son  of  every  Israeli  family.  Every 
nation  represented  here  should  demand  his  immediate 
release.  If  we  want  to  adopt  a  resolution  about  the 
Middle  East  today,  that  is  the  resolution  we  should 
adopt.  

Last year in Israel at Bar-Ilan University, and this 
year  in  the  Knesset  and  the  United  States  Congress,  I 
laid out my vision for peace, in which a demilitarized 
Palestinian  State  recognizes  the  Jewish  State. Yes,  the 
Jewish State. After all, this is the body that recognized 
the Jewish State 64 years ago. Now, does the Assembly 
not think that it is about time that Palestinians did the 
same?  

The Jewish State of Israel will always protect the 
rights  of  all  of  its  minorities,  including  the  more  than 
1 million Arab citizens of Israel. I wish I could say the 
same  thing  about  a  future  Palestinian  State,  for  as 
Palestinian  officials  made  clear  the  other  day  —  in 
fact, I think they did so right here in New York — the 
Palestinian  State  would  not  allow  any  Jews.  They 
would  be  Jew-free  —  Judenrein.  That  is  ethnic 
cleansing. There are laws today in Ramallah that make 
the selling of land to Jews punishable by death. That is 
racism.  And  the  Assembly  knows  which  laws  this 
evokes.  

Israel  has  no  intention  whatsoever  of  changing 
the  democratic  character  of  our  State.  We  just  do  not 
want  the  Palestinians  to  try  to  change  the  Jewish 
character  of  our  State.  We  want  them  to  give  up  the 
fantasy of flooding Israel with millions of Palestinians.  

President Abbas just stood here and said that the 
settlements  lie  at  the  core  of  the  Israeli-Palestinian 
conflicts. Well, that is odd. Our conflict was raging for 
nearly  half  a  century  before  there  was  a  single  Israeli 
settlement  in  the  West  Bank.  So,  if  what  President 
Abbas  is  saying  was  true,  then  I  guess  that  the 
settlements  he  is  talking  about  are  Tel  Aviv,  Haifa, 
Jaffa and Be΄er Sheva. Maybe that is what he meant the 
other day when he said that Israel had been occupying 
11-51185 

39 
A/66/PV.19 

Palestinian  land  for  63  years.  He  did  not  say  from 
1967; he said from 1948.  

I hope that somebody will bother to ask him this 
question, because it illustrates a simple truth. The core 
of  the  conflict  is  not  the  settlements;  the  settlements 
are a result of the conflict. The settlements are an issue 
that has to be addressed and resolved in the course of 
negotiations.  But  the  core  of  the  conflict  has  always 
been,  and  unfortunately  remains,  the  refusal  of  the 
Palestinians  to  recognize  a  Jewish  State  within  any
border.  

I  think  it  is  time  that  the  Palestinian  leadership 
recognize what every serious international leader from 
Lord  Balfour  and  David  Lloyd  George  in  1917,  to 
President Truman in 1948, to President Obama just two 
days ago right here, has recognized — that Israel is the 
Jewish State.  

I  would  ask  President  Abbas  to  stop  walking 
around this issue, recognize the Jewish State, and make 
peace  with  us.  In  such  a  genuine  peace,  Israel  is 
prepared to make painful compromises. We believe that 
the Palestinians should be neither the citizens of Israel 
nor its subjects. They should live in a free State of their 
own.  But 
for 
compromise. And we will know that they are ready for 
compromise  and  peace  when  they  start  taking  Israel’s 
security  requirements  seriously  and  when  they  stop 
denying  our  historical  connection 
to  our  ancient 
homeland. I often hear them accuse Israel of Judaizing 
Jerusalem.  That 
like  accusing  America  of 
Americanizing  Washington,  D.C.,  or  the  British  of 
Anglicizing London. Why are we called Jews? Because 
we come from Judea.  

In  my  office  in  Jerusalem,  there  is  an  ancient 
seal.  It  is  a  signet  ring  of  a  Jewish  official  from  the 
time of the Bible. The seal was found right next to the 
Western Wall and it dates back 2,700 years to the time 
of King Hezekiah. Now, the name of a Jewish official 
is  inscribed  on  the  ring  in  Hebrew.  His  name  was 
Netanyahu.  That  is  my  last  name.  My  first  name, 
Benjamin,  can  be  traced  back  a  1,000  years  to 
Benjamin  —  Binyamin  —  the  son  of  Jacob,  who  was 
also  known  as  Israel.  Jacob  and  his  12  sons  roamed 
these same hills of Judea and Samaria 4,000 years ago, 
and there has been a continuous Jewish presence in the 
land ever since.  
Those  Jews  who  were  exiled  from  our  land  — 

Jews  in  Spain,  on  the  eve  of  their  expulsion;  Jews  in 
they  should  be 
is 
ready, 
like  us, 

Ukraine,  fleeing  the  pogroms;  Jews  fighting  in  the 
Warsaw Ghetto, as the Nazis were circling around it — 
never  stopped  dreaming  of  coming  back.  They  never 
stopped  praying,  they  never  stopped  yearning.  They 
whispered:  “Next  year  in  Jerusalem.  Next  year  in  the 
promised land”.  

As  the  Prime  Minister  of  Israel,  I  speak  for  a 
hundred  generations  of  Jews  who  were  dispersed 
throughout the lands and suffered every evil under the 
sun,  but  who  never  gave  up  hope  of  restoring  their 
national life in the one and only Jewish State.  

I  continue  to  hope  that  President  Abbas  will  be 
my  partner  in  peace.  I  have  worked  hard  to  advance 
that  peace.  The  day  I  came  into  office,  I  called  for 
direct  negotiations  without  preconditions.  President 
Abbas did not respond. I outlined a vision of peace of 
two States for two peoples. He still did not respond. I 
removed  hundreds  of  roadblocks  and  checkpoints  to 
ease  freedom  of  movement  in  the  Palestinian  areas. 
This  facilitated  fantastic  growth  in  the  Palestinian 
economy. But again, there was no response. I took the 
unprecedented  step  of  freezing  new  building  in  the 
settlements for 10 months. No Prime Minister had done 
that before, ever. Once again, I hear applause, but there 
was no response. No response.  

In  the  past  few  weeks,  American  officials  have 
put  forward  ideas  to  restart  peace  talks.  There  were 
things in those ideas about borders that I did not like. 
There  were  things  there  about  the  Jewish  State  that  I 
am sure the Palestinians did not like. But despite all of 
my  reservations,  I  was  willing  to  move  forward  on 
those American  ideas.  Why  does  President Abbas  not 
join  me?  We  have  to  stop  negotiating  about  the 
negotiations. Let us just get on with it. Let us negotiate 
peace.  

I spent years defending Israel on the battlefield. I 
spent  decades  defending  Israel  in  the  court  of  public 
opinion.  President  Abbas  has  dedicated  his  life  to 
advancing  the  Palestinian  cause.  Must  this  conflict 
continue for generations, or will we enable our children 
and  our  grandchildren  to  speak  in  the  years  ahead  of 
how we found a way to end it? That is what we should 
aim for, and that is what I believe we can achieve.  

In  two  and  a  half  years,  President  Abbas  and  I 
have met in Jerusalem only once, even though my door 
has always been open to him. If he wishes, I will come 
to  Ramallah. Actually,  I  have  a  better  suggestion.  We 
have both just flown thousands of miles to New York. 
11-51185 
40 

from  meeting 


Now  we  are  in  the  same  city;  we  are  in  the  same 
building.  So  let  us  meet  here  today,  at  the  United 
Nations. Who is there to stop us? What is there to stop 
us?  If  we  genuinely  want  peace,  what  is  there  to  stop 
us 
today  and  beginning  peace 
negotiations? 

I suggest that we talk openly and honestly. Let us 
listen  to  one  another.  Let  us,  as  we  say  in  the  Middle 
East,  talk  dugri.  That  means  “straightforward”.  I  will 
tell  him  my  needs  and  concerns;  he  will  tell  me  his. 
And with God’s help, we will find the common ground 
of peace.  

There  is  an  old  Arab  saying  that  one  cannot 
applaud with one hand. Well, the same is true of peace. 
I  cannot  make  peace  alone.  I  cannot  make  peace 
without  an  interlocutor.  President Abbas,  I  extend  my 
hand — the hand of Israel — in peace. I hope that he 
will grasp that hand. We are both the sons of Abraham. 
My  people  call  him  Avraham;  his  people  call  him 
Ibrahim. We share the same patriarch. We dwell in the 
same land. Our destinies are intertwined. Let us realize 
the vision of Isaiah: “The people who walk in darkness 
will see a great light”. (The Holy Bible, Isaiah 9:2). Let 
that light be the light of peace. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
State of Israel for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Benjamin  Netanyahu,  Prime  Minster  of  the 
State of Israel, was escorted from the rostrum.  



  Address by Mr. Fredrik Reinfeldt, Prime 
Minister of the Kingdom of Sweden 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Kingdom 
of Sweden. 

Mr.  Fredrik  Reinfeldt,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom of Sweden, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Fredrik  Reinfeldt, 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Kingdom  of  Sweden,  and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr. Reinfeldt (Sweden): More than 10 years ago, 

we  decided 
to  free 
humankind  from  extreme  poverty,  from  hunger  and 
disease,  and  from  illiteracy.  We  called  them  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  These  Goals  have 
to  set  eight  concrete  goals 
11-51185 

A/66/PV.19
been  powerful.  They  have  helped  the  international 
community  to  monitor  and  mobilize  resources  for 
development cooperation. 

And important progress has been made. We have 
seen  poverty  decline  in  many  countries.  By  2015,  the 
global  poverty  rate  is  expected  to  fall  below  15  per 
cent. We have seen some of the poorest countries make 
the  greatest  strides  in  education.  Child  mortality  has 
been  reduced.  New  HIV  infections  are  declining 
steadily. Access to clean drinking water has increased. 
But  we  still  have  a  long  way  to  go  in  other  areas  in 
order  to  raise  standards  of  living  and  offer  equal 
opportunities to people around the globe. 

Today  I  would  like  to  focus  on  one  key  area 
where  progress  is  still  very  slow.  But  since  it  affects 
half  of  the  world’s  population  and  half  its  human 
resources, it is of crucial importance. I am referring to 
maybe  the  most  important  human  rights  failure  of  all, 
or  at  least  the  one  that  affects  the  largest  number  of 
human  beings.  I  am  referring  to  the  unmet  human, 
economic  and  social  rights  of  3.5  billion  women  and 
girls. They make up half of the world, but they are not 
allowed  to  fulfil  their  potential  as  powerful  drivers  of 
economic  development  as  well  as  of  peace  and 
security. 

Let  me  just  fill  members  in  on  the  situation  we 
have today. Women perform 66 per cent of the world’s 
work and produce 50 per cent of its food, but they earn 
only 10 per cent of its income and own one per cent of 
its  property.  Seventy  per  cent  of  the  world’s  poor 
population 
are  women  or  girls.  Every  day, 
approximately 1,000 women die from causes related to 
pregnancy  and  childbirth.  That  adds  up  to  about 
350,000 deaths each year. 
This  week  we  witnessed  a  historic  step  in  the 

history of the United Nations, when Brazilian President 
Dilma  Rousseff  became  the  first  woman  ever  to  open 
the general debate. At the same time — standing here, 
mid-2011 — there are still countries that do not allow 
women to vote. And only in 28 countries has women’s 
parliamentary representation reached a critical mass of 
30  per  cent  or  more.  Only  19  women  lead  their 
countries  as  elected  Heads  of  State  or  Government. 
This is not fair. It is not just. And, frankly, it makes no 
sense. 

To  me,  gender  equality  is  first  and  foremost  a 
question of ensuring equal rights for women and men. 
It is about giving all individuals, irrespective of gender, 
41 

A/66/PV.19 

the 
same  possibilities  of  education,  economic 
opportunity and participating in society. In 2011, there 
are  women  who  still  do  not  enjoy  equal  rights.  They 
are  refused  the  rights  to  vote,  to  inherit,  to  work  and 
even to drive a car. And at the far end of the spectrum, 
women  are  subject  to  gender-based  violence  and  rape 
as a weapon of war.  

But gaps in these rights are not only a loss for the 
women  affected;  they  are  a  loss  to  society  as  a  whole 
and,  I  must  say,  very  bad  economic  policy  for  the 
countries concerned. Not least in these times of global 
economic  crisis,  it  seems  obvious  that  we  should 
realize the full potential of all human resources. 

I  will  give  a  few  examples.  Closing  the  gap 
between  male  and  female  employment  rates  would 
have  huge  implications  for  the  global  economy.  It 
would  boost  the  United  States  gross  domestic  product 
(GDP) by as much as 9 per cent, the eurozone GDP by 
13  per  cent  and  Japanese  GDP  by  as  much  as  16  per 
cent.  But  increased  gender  equality  does  not  merely 
have  immediate  economic  benefits;  it  is  also  an 
investment for the future. The evidence from a range of 
countries is clear. When women take greater control of 
household  income,  more  money  is  spent  on  children’s 
needs,  such  as  food,  health  and  education.  Children 
grow taller, are ill less often and are likely to get better 
jobs.  Moreover,  when  women  play  a  greater  part  in 
society  by  shaping  institutions  or  taking  leading  roles 
in  politics  or  business 
there  are  clear 
improvements  for  the  public  good,  and  corruption  is 
lessened.  When  they  are  present  at  the  building  of 
peace, results improve. 

In  short,  I  see  gender  equality  not  only  as  a 
crucial  human  rights  issue,  but  also  as  a  question  of 
smart  economics.  I  would  urge  all  representatives 
sitting  in  this  Hall  today  to  imagine  what  it  would 
mean in terms of economic growth for their countries if 
women were allowed to participate fully in society. 

As  technology  develops,  the  world  is  changing. 
In one minute I can use my mobile phone to get hold of 
a friend on the other side of the globe or my children 
back home in Sweden. That is, of course, amazing. But 
in  one  minute,  we  can  also  get  a  first-hand  report  on 
the situation in troubled parts of the world. We can get 
first-hand  access  to  pictures  of  abuse  and  violence, 
taken  by  hidden  mobile  phones  and  for  the  whole 
world  to  see. Today,  ideas  of  freedom  and  democracy 
are spreading at the speed of sound. We have seen it in 
life, 
42 

those  new  roads 
North Africa. We are seeing it in the Middle East. The 
Internet and new technology have laid out a high-speed 
motorway  heading  towards  democracy  and  freedom. 
We can see that some are trying to put out roadblocks; 
repressive  Governments  try  to  quash  the  rights  they 
fear. 

The  United  Nations  must  play  a  leading  role  in 
embracing  and  maintaining 
to 
democracy  and  freedom.  The  United  Nations  Special 
Rapporteur  on  the  promotion  and  protection  of  the 
right  to  freedom  of  opinion  and  expression  recently 
concluded  that  there  must  be  as  little  restriction  as 
possible  of  online  freedom  of  expression.  He  called  it 
an  enabler  of  other  human  rights.  Sweden,  together 
with  40  other  nations  around  the  world,  strongly 
supports  his  conclusion.  We  want  to  build  an  alliance 
for the freedom of the Internet, and we have launched a 
special  initiative  for  democratization  and  freedom  of 
expression  so  that  we  can  urgently  support  human 
rights  activists  and  agents  of  democratic  change.  The 
Internet  is  the  new  front  line  in  the  fight  for  freedom 
across the world. 

In  many  countries,  my  own  included,  we  take 
freedom  for  granted.  In  other  countries,  it  is  still  a 
dream.  This  year,  we  have  witnessed  courageous 
people  in  North Africa  and  the  Middle  East  taking  to 
the streets to fight for their dream; to fight for freedom, 
openness and democracy. For this, they must have our 
support.  When  there  are  threats  of  genocide,  war 
crimes, ethnic cleansing or crimes against humanity — 
when  autocratic  rulers,  as  in  Syria,  turn  their  guns  on 
their own citizens — then the international community 
has a responsibility to protect civilians. 

Sweden  hopes  to  play  its  part  in  this  decisive 
phase  in  the  region.  We  are  contributing  to  the 
implementation  of  Security  Council  resolutions  1970 
(2011)  and  1973  (2011)  in  Libya.  We  are  providing 
substantial humanitarian support to several countries in 
North Africa  and  the  Middle  East. And  when  the  new 
Governments  turn  to  the  crucial  task  of  establishing 
democratic  principles,  the  rule  of  law  and  respect  for 
human rights, we will be ready to continue our support 
and  do  more  to  see  the  Arab  Spring  turn  into  a 
blossoming summer. 

The  European  Union  is  firmly  committed  to 
Israel  and  a  Palestinian  State  living  side  by  side  with 
each other in peace and security. We all want to see the 
peace  process  resume.  Violations  of  international  law 
11-51185 
importance  of 
the  United  Nations 
In  a  globalized  world,  we  are  not 


must cease. Only then can a true and lasting peace  be 
achieved. 

The  Horn  of Africa  is  suffering  its  worst  famine 
in  60  years.  We  are  faced  with  a  huge  humanitarian 
disaster.  The  international  community  must  respond 
faster and better, now. Disasters such as those in Haiti, 
Pakistan  and  now  in  the  Horn  of  Africa  show  the 
central 
in 
humanitarian action. The United Nations needs our full 
support  to  further  improve  the  international  response 
capacity. 

just 
interconnected online; together we share a planet with 
finite resources. And yet we consume as if there was no 
tomorrow.  I  believe 
that  sustainable  development 
requires  global  solutions.  In  this  respect,  the  United 
Nations Conference on Sustainable Development to be 
held  next  year  in  Brazil  will  be  very  important.  I  am 
really hoping for a strong renewed political commitment to 
sustainable development. 

We  are  also  looking  for  concrete  progress  at  the 
Durban Climate Change Conference in November. We 
know  what  we  need  and  we  have  known  it  for  some 
time  — 
reductions  of  greenhouse  gas 
emissions. If we do not achieve that, we are simply not 
going to be able to reverse the trend of global warming. 

These  are  turbulent  times.  Some  countries  are 
suffering  from  financial  and  economic  crises;  others 
are  suffering  from  the  severe  consequences  of  global 
warming;  yet  others  are  building  new  societies  as 
freedom  and  democracy  have  replaced  dictatorships 
and  repression.  More  than  ever,  there  is  a  need  for  a 
well-functioning  global 
international 
cooperation and conflict resolution and for the pursuit 
of  sustainable  economic,  social  and  environmental 
development.  The  need  for  a  strong  United  Nations,  

further 
arena 
for 
A/66/PV.19
to  humanitarian 
based on political legitimacy, justice and human rights, 
is  as  strong  as  ever.  Sweden  will  do  its  utmost  to 
support  a  strong  United  Nations  through  substantial 
contributions 
and  development 
assistance  and  to  its  work  for  peace,  security  and 
human rights. 

We  also  want  to  help  revitalize  the  work  of  the 
United  Nations  on  disarmament  and  non-proliferation. 
Together  with  Mexico  we  will,  as  co-Chairs  of  the 
seventh Conference Facilitating the Entry into Force of 
the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty,  work 
hard on advancing the Treaty’s entry into force.  
We have also presented our candidature for a seat 

on 
the  Human  Rights  Council 
the  period 
2013-2015.  As  a  member  of  the  Council,  Sweden 
would contribute actively to making it a more efficient 
and  active  body  and  to  promoting  the  universal 
enjoyment of human rights — making rights real. 

fiftieth 
anniversary  of  the  death  of  the  Swedish  Secretary-
General  Dag  Hammarskjöld.  He  played  an  important 
role in reforming and shaping the United Nations as we 
know it today. Let me conclude with these words from 
Dag Hammarskjöld:  

“The pursuit of peace and progress, with its trials 
and  its  errors,  its  successes  and  its  setbacks,  can 
never be relaxed and never abandoned”.  
This  week  we  commemorate 
the 
for 
That was true then and it is true today.  
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Sweden  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

Mr.  Fredrik  Reinfeldt,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Sweden,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
  The meeting rose at 2.25 p.m. 

11-51185 

43 
