
A/66/PV.10
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

10th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 21 September 2011, 6 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 
non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs),  including  mental 
and  blood  disorders  and  oral  diseases.  In  comparison, 
44 per  cent  of  deaths  were  caused  by  communicable 
diseases  and  maternal,  perinatal  and  nutritional 
conditions,  and  9  per  cent  resulted  from  injuries, 
including road traffic fatalities. One third of the deaths 
from NCDs occurred before the age of 60 years.  

The  Commonwealth  is  greatly  and  adversely 
affected  by  the  double  burden  of  communicable  and 
non-communicable  diseases  alike.  Within  our  54  member 
countries,  65  per  cent  of  our  2.4  billion  citizens  are 
affected  by  HIV.  We  acknowledge  the  increasing 
pressure  placed  upon  already  overstretched  health 
systems  from  this  double  burden  of  disease  and, 
therefore, the need for a comprehensive and integrated 
response.  

link 
between NCDs and poverty and, furthermore, the threat 
this epidemic poses to sustainable development. We are 
cognizant that unless there is a high-level commitment 
to  responding  to  the  NCD  epidemic,  the  gains  that 
Commonwealth  members 
towards 
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  will  be 
threatened.  For  that  reason,  this  high-level  event  is 
particularly timely.  

The  Commonwealth  itself  has  confirmed  its 
commitment  to  respond  to  the  NCD  epidemic  and 
increase  the  ability  of  countries  to  respond  to  the 
emerging  health  crisis.  In  that  regard,  Commonwealth 
heads  of  Government,  in  their  2009  statement  on 
commonwealth  action  to  combat  non-communicable 
The  Commonwealth  acknowledges 
have  made 
the 





  The meeting was called to order at 6.10 p.m.  



High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the 
Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases 
Agenda item 117 (continued)
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In  accordance 

with  resolution  31/3,  of  18  October  1976,  I  now  give 
the  floor  to  the  observer  of  the  Commonwealth 
Secretariat. 
Ms.  Anie  (Commonwealth  Secretariat):  The 

Commonwealth  Secretariat  is  honoured  to  make  a 
statement  at  this  High-level  Meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly  on 
the  Prevention  and  Control  of 
Non-communicable Diseases. Commonwealth heads of 
Government called for the United Nations to host such 
a  summit  when  they  last  met,  in Trinidad  and Tobago 
in  2009.  We  are  pleased  that  this  call  to  action  has 
contributed  to  the  momentum  behind  this  meeting 
today. 
The  Commonwealth  family  comprises  54  countries 

on  five  continents.  We  account  for  a  third  of  the 
world’s population, a quarter of its countries and a fifth 
of its trade. We are a family of varied countries — rich 
and poor, large and small, but all aspiring to the shared 
principles  of  overcoming  poverty, 
ignorance  and 
disease,  raising  standards  of  living  and  achieving  a 
more equitable society.  

Of  the  estimated  19.5  million  deaths  in  the 
Commonwealth  in  2008,  9.3  million  were  due  to 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-50686 (E) 
*1150686* 




for 
for 
as 
the 
The 
theme 
between 
Commonwealth 
non-communicable 
influencing  global 
A/66/PV.10 

diseases, noted with concern that the poorest people are 
the  most  vulnerable  to  the  impacts  of  these  diseases. 
That statement has since been operationalized into the 
Commonwealth  road  map  on  NCDs,  which  outlines 
activities for the Commonwealth Secretariat to pursue, 
including  developing  advocacy  strategies,  informing 
and 
thinking,  disseminating 
knowledge  about  best  practices,  building  capacity  and 
institutional strengthening. 

Secretariat 
chose 
“Non-communicable  diseases:  a  priority 
the 
Commonwealth” 
the  2011 
Commonwealth health ministers’ meting. Furthermore, 
the theme for the 2012 meeting will be focused on the 
linkages 
and 
communicable diseases. 

Mr.  Cazeau  (Haiti),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
Young people are an important area of focus. As 

60 per cent of its citizens are under 30 years of age, the 
Commonwealth  has  a  strong  focus  on  young  people. 
Encouraging  meaningful  youth  engagement  and 
participation  is  central  to  the  Commonwealth  Plan  of 
Action for Youth Empowerment.  

The  Commonwealth,  furthermore,  continues  to 
draw  attention  to  the  gender  dimensions  of  NCDs, 
specifically  by  recognizing  the  different  prevalence 
rates  of  the  major  risk  factors  and  diseases  between 
men  and  women.  Importantly,  too,  it  is  often  women 
and girls who act as principal caregivers for household 
members who became unwell. The  burden of  care has 
significant  socio-economic  implications  for  them  and 
their  families.  The  theme  of  the  Commonwealth  for 
2011,  “Women  as  agents  of  change”,  was  chosen  in 
recognition  of  women’s  contribution  to  society  and 
emphasizes  the  fact  that  when  they  prosper,  their 
communities also prosper. 

We are pleased by the examples of good practice 
emerging  in  the  Commonwealth.  We  commend  the 
response of the various regions and their leadership on 
NCDs. In particular, we note the pioneering holding of 
the  Regional  Summit  of  Heads  of  Government  of  the 
Caribbean Community on Chronic Non-Communicable 
Diseases,  in  2007.  We  commend  the  work  of  civil 
society,  which  has  informed  and  empowered  others  to 
better prevent and control NCDs throughout the world. 
The  Commonwealth 
the  global 
towards 
efforts 
community’s 
supports 
commitments 
fully 
and 
to 
further 
commit 
together 
region.  We 
parliamentarians 
preventing  and  controlling  the  spread  of  NCDs.  We 
will  continue  to  work  with  member  countries  and 
partners  across  all  sectors  to  ensure  an  accelerated, 
multisectoral  and  evidence-based  response 
the 
epidemic.  We 
deepening 
to 
Commonwealth efforts beyond this event.  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  In 

accordance  with  resolution  64/124,  of  16  December 
2009,  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  observer  of  the 
Parliamentary Assembly of the Mediterranean. 
Mr.  Amoruso  (Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the 

Mediterranean) (spoke in Italian; English text provided 
by the delegation):  It  is  an  honour  to  take  part  in  this 
High-level  Meeting  on  the  Prevention  and  Control  of 
Non-communicable  Diseases  on  behalf  of 
the 
Parliamentary Assembly  of  the  Mediterranean  (PAM), 
and  to  share  with  the  General  Assembly  the  tangible 
results achieved in this field by our unique network of 
parliamentarians in the Mediterranean. 

As  many  General Assembly  members  know,  the 
Parliamentary  Assembly  was  established  in  2006  to 
the 
bring 
Mediterranean 
inter-State 
organization  comprised  of  26  member  States  and 
resulting  from  the  maturation  of  a  regional  political 
process initiated within the Inter-Parliamentary Union. 

After  having  addressed  the  High-level  Meeting 
on  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  one  year  ago, 
on 22 September 2010 (see A/65/PV.9), I am proud to 
again  have  the  unique  opportunity  to  address  the 
General Assembly  on  behalf  of  parliamentarians  from 
the northern and southern shores of mare nostrum. This 
is  a  symbol  of  our  unity  in  making  another  decisive 
step towards the goals set for 2015, which is a priority 
that constantly leads our actions. 
As  highlighted  by  the  Regional  Office  for  the 

Eastern  Mediterranean 
the  World  Health 
Organization (WHO) and as shown in the statistics for 
the  rest  of  the  Mediterranean  region,  the  burden  of 
non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs)  on  the  public 
health  services  of  Mediterranean  countries  calls  for 
immediate  and  coordinated  action  at  the  regional  and 
international levels. 

We,  the  parliamentarians  of  the  Mediterranean, 
wish to take full advantage of this High-level Meeting 
to  call  for  concerted  action  in  monitoring,  mobilizing 
appropriate  resources  and  strengthening  capacities  to 
pursue  the  fight  against  these  threats  to  life  and 
from 
are 
an 
of 
2 

11-50686 


socio-economic development. We are doing so in what 
is  a  decisive  time  for  our  region  and  in  line  with  the 
Global  Strategy  for  the  Prevention  and  Control  of 
Non-communicable  Diseases,  endorsed  by  the  World 
Health Assembly  in  2000,  and  its  related Action  Plan, 
adopted in 2008 by WHO and Member States. 
The  Parliamentary  Assembly  of  the  Mediterranean 

has  mobilized  its  unique  multisectoral  network  in  the 
Mediterranean  to  support  United  Nations  action,  in 
coordination with Member States, as well as with other 
international  and  regional  bodies.  PAM  has  strongly 
supported and welcomed the inauguration of the WHO 
Mediterranean  Centre  for  Health  Risk  Reduction  in 
Tunisia  in  July  2010.  We  intend  to  continue  to  assist 
the  Centre  in  promoting  interregional  cooperation, 
notably  by  strengthening  public  health  capacities  to 
tackle 
the 
Mediterranean. 

In  close  cooperation  with  the  United  Nations 
system and a wide range of partners, the Parliamentary 
Assembly  of  the  Mediterranean  is  already  mobilizing 
its network, using a multisectoral approach to create a 
pool of high-level members of Parliament, experts and 
non-governmental  organization  representatives  in  the 
region  to  address  specific  issues  in  line  with  the 
priorities on the international agenda.  
the  growing  burden  of  NCDs 
in 
A/66/PV.10

An  example  of  such  efforts  was  the  most  recent 
meeting  of  PAM’s  panel  on  economic  issues,  held  at 
the  United  Nations  Office  at  Geneva  in  May,  in  close 
cooperation  with  the  Inter-Agency  Cluster  on  Trade 
and  Productive  Capacity.  We  wish  to  assure  General 
Assembly  members  today  that  this  network  will  fully 
contribute to implementing the actions proposed in the 
Political  Declaration  (A/66/2,  annex)  adopted  at  the 
High-level Meeting. 

On behalf of PAM, I wish to solemnly assure the 
Assembly  that  our  unique  Mediterranean  network  of 
parliamentarians  remains  ready  to  use  its  capacity  to 
legislate,  oversee  our  executives  and  vote  on  budgets 
so  as  to  ensure  that  the  United  Nations  agenda  on 
NCDs is implemented as a top priority in our region. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I 

declare  closed  the  High-level  Meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly  on 
the  Prevention  and  Control  of 
Non-communicable Diseases. 

stage of its consideration of agenda item 117. 

The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
  The meeting rose at 6.30 p.m. 
11-50686 

3 
