
A/66/PV.18
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

18th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 22 September 2011, 7 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 
that  arise  as  the  inevitable  consequence  of  what  we 
now simply call globalization. Put simply, the dilemma 
is  this:  the  challenges  we  face  are  increasingly  global 
while the institutions at our disposal are still primarily 
national.  Or  put  more  crudely,  for  those  engaged  in 
democratic politics, the answers may lie abroad, but all 
the votes lie at home. 

Three  years  ago,  when  I  first  spoke  at  this 
podium,  I  spoke  of  the  storm  clouds  gathering  across 
the global economy. It seemed as if we were in free fall 
as  we  all  stared  into  the  abyss,  with  the  very  real 
possibility  of  a  second  global  depression  in  a  century. 
Through  coordinated  intervention  in  2009,  we  broke 
the  fall.  Yet  three  years  on,  the  crisis  in  the  global 
economy  continues,  still  with  a  capacity  to  engulf  us 
all.  Recovery  is  stalling.  Unemployment  is  rising. 
Confidence  is  waning.  There  are  growing  concerns 
over sovereign debt levels, and there are concerns also 
over the national and international political will to deal 
with these challenges. 
This  week,  the  International  Monetary  Fund 

issued  a  stark  warning  for 
the  global  economy, 
highlighting that we have entered a new and dangerous 
phase. So what then is to be done?  

First,  reforms  to  the  financial  system  should  be 
implemented and taxpayers should no longer be asked 
to  bail  out  the  irresponsible  behaviour  of  particular 
financial  institutions.  Secondly,  all  major  economies 
need to find a credible path back to surplus over time, 
consistent  with  the  Group  of Twenty’s  Framework  for 
Strong, Sustainable and Balanced Growth. Thirdly, we 








In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Archondo 
(Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia),  Vice-President, 
took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 8.20 p.m.  
Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate  
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kevin  Rudd,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Australia. 
Mr.  Rudd  (Australia):  Since  we  last  gathered  in 

this  great Assembly  one  year  ago,  we  have  witnessed 
developments  of  historic  dimensions.  There  has  been 
democratic  protest  and  democratic  reform  across  the 
Arab  world,  as  we  discovered  afresh  that  freedom  is 
the  right  of  all,  not  just  of  the  few.  Also,  a  global 
economic  crisis  is  rolling  on,  as  we  enter  a  new  and 
dangerous  period 
jobs  and 
the 
livelihoods of working people everywhere. 

And  while  rarely  making  the  front  pages,  the 
other  great  global  challenges  that  have  been  with  us 
now  for 
their  almost 
alarmingly  silent  advance  —  challenges  of  grinding 
poverty,  environmental  degradation, 
the  continued 
proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons,  the  enhancement  of 
human rights, all of which compete for attention on an 
already crowded international agenda. 

to 
are 
comprehend, let alone effectively respond to, this vast 
array of challenges that now confront us — challenges 

too  many  years  continue 
Our  global 
institutions 
struggling 
threatens 
that 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-51179 (E) 
*1151179* 




A/66/PV.18 

must  prevent  a  further  outbreak  of  protectionism  and 
we must conclude Doha, as history will condemn us if 
we  repeat  the  job-destroying  protectionism  of  the 
1930s  that  transformed  a  financial  crisis  into  a  full-
blown depression. 
Fourthly,  for  international  trade  to  grow  and 

Chinese  domestic  demand 
to  make  a  greater 
contribution to growth in economies around the world, 
we must also see currency reform, particularly with the 
appreciation of the Chinese yuan. And finally, we must 
with  clarity  of  leadership  and  resolution  of  purpose 
define  and  deliver  a  range  of  other  new  innovative 
drivers  of  global  growth.  These  include  innovative 
public-private  financing  for  the  new  infrastructure 
revolution  needed 
for  power,  water,  agriculture, 
transport  and  communications.  The  jobs  potential  for 
the green energy revolution must be fully harvested by 
carbon pricing, and women and youth must participate 
fully  in  the  economies  of  the  developed  and  the 
developing world.  

These  are  not  just  useful  social  policies.  These 
are  not  just  useful  environmental  policies.  They  are 
now  necessary  economic  policies  to  generate  the  next 
missing increment of global economic growth. What is 
required,  therefore,  is  global  and  national  political 
leadership capable of looking beyond the next electoral 
cycle — to look to the long term over the short term, to 
look to the strategic rather than the tactical, and to look 
to the necessary over the urgent. 

Over the course of the last decade, we have seen 
an acceleration of the shift of economic power to Asia 
marking  Asia’s  re-emergence  as  the  centre  of  global 
economic  gravity  after  an  interruption  of  more  than 
200 years. In the year 2000, China was a mere 3.7 per 
cent  of  global  GDP  and  India  was  less  than  half  that. 
By  2030,  they  will  account  for  more  than  20 per  cent 
of  global  GDP,  and  that  will  rise  further.  Asian 
countries held 16.6 per cent of global foreign exchange 
reserves in 2001. Now they hold 39 per cent.  

Therefore,  what  happens  in  Asia  is  now  of 
fundamental  relevance  to  the  world,  not  just  to  the 
region 
itself.  Asian  economic  growth  has  been 
overwhelmingly good for the global economy.  

But Asia has also seen an exponential increase in 
military  expenditure.  Over  the  last  20  years  military 
expenditure in East Asia grew by nearly 150 per cent. 
During  the  same  period  the  United  States’  military 
expenditure  grew  by  36  per  cent. Asia,  with  its  many 
in  Asia,  we  need 
unresolved  territorial  disputes  and  military  tensions, 
has become the new global arms bazaar. 

One  of  the  big  spenders,  despite  the  poverty 
afflicting its population, is North Korea. North Korea’s 
nuclear weapons programme and its long-range missile 
programme  represent  a  direct  threat  to  the  security  of 
our region, including Australia. 
To deal adequately  with those and other security 

challenges 
regional 
institutional  architecture,  as  a  complement  to  the 
United Nations, to help build transparency, cooperation 
and, in time, a sense of common security in our region. 

For  that  reason,  Australia  has  promoted  the 
concept  of  an  Asia-Pacific  community.  Collectively, 
regional  countries  now  have  an  opportunity  to  realize 
the  idea  of  such  a  community  through  the  expanded 
East Asia Summit (EAS), which for the first time this 
year  will  include  the  Presidents  of  the  United  States 
and  of  the  Russian  Federation.  Over  time,  a  stronger 
EAS  can  promote  the  type  of  rules-based  order 
regionally  for  which 
the  United  Nations  strives 
globally.  This  task  is  critical  to  avoid  damaging 
strategic  miscalculation  in  the  Asia-Pacific  region, 
which would also undermine global economic growth.  

I  say  again:  what  happens  in  Asia  now  matters 
not just for Asia, itself, but for the world. 

In Australia’s more immediate region in the South 
Pacific,  we  are  bound  together  by  the  common  bonds 
of  democracy  and  the  responsibility  we  all  have  to 
develop  those  economies  and  protect  their  natural 
environment. 

We  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  visit  to 
the Pacific Islands Forum — the first ever by a United 
Nations  Secretary-General.  His  commitment  to  our 
region  is  an  important  signal  of  the  international 
community’s  interests  in  the  Pacific’s  prosperity,  its 
sustainability and its democracy. 
Global  events  since  the  last  session  of  the 

General Assembly have highlighted that the human cry 
for freedom and for democracy is both indivisible and 
universal.  Australia  stands  with 
the 
international  community  in  applauding  the  courage  of 
those  citizens  seeking  what  is  naturally  theirs  in 
Tunisia, in Egypt, in Libya, and now in Syria. 

In  Egypt,  we  are  now  supporting  improved  dry 
land  farming  and  assistance  with  urban  employment 
strong 
the  rest  of 
2 

11-51179 
among 
the 
first 
to  begin  now,  and  for 


programmes  as  Egypt  moves  to  critical  parliamentary 
and presidential elections. In Tunisia, we are providing 
In  Libya, 
agricultural  and  electoral  assistance. 
Australia  was 
to 
campaign 
internationally for a no-fly zone to protect civilians at a 
time when Al-Qadhafi seemed destined for victory. We 
are  proud  of  the  fact  that  since  the  Libya  conflict 
began,  Australia  stands  across  the  world  as  the  third 
largest humanitarian donor to the long-suffering people 
of Libya. We also stand ready to assist with institution-
building in the new Libya of the future. 

What  challenges  us  now  is  the  ongoing  brutality 
in Syria. The Syrian regime should heed the lessons of 
Libya. We call on Bashar Al-Assad to step down now, 
for  political  reform 
the 
international  community  to  intensify  its  pressure  on 
Damascus to respond to the voices of the Syrian people 
demanding their legitimate freedom. 

Twelve  months  ago,  we  had  no  expectation  of 
change in Egypt, Tunisia or Libya. But we did hope to 
see progress in the historic process to bring permanent 
peace  to  the  peoples  of  Israel  and  Palestine.  Sadly, 
there  has  been  no  progress.  Australia 
remains 
committed  to  a  negotiated  two-State  solution  that 
allows  a  secure  and  independent  Israel  to  live  side  by 
side with a secure and independent Palestinian State. 

Over  the  past  10  months  I  have  travelled  three 
times  to  both  Jerusalem  and  Ramallah,  where  I  have 
met  on  each  occasion  with  Prime  Minister  Netanyahu 
and  President  Abbas.  I  have  urged  both  parties  to 
engage  in  direct  negotiations.  I  have  argued  that  they 
should be held on the basis of the 1967 boundaries plus 
appropriate 
the 
remaining final status issues — the right to return, the 
status of Jerusalem, the Holy Sites and the provision of 
external  security  —  be  resolved  through  such  direct 
negotiations. 

My  fear  is  that  if  we  do  not  see  these  matters 
concluded  in  the  near  term,  the  rapidly  changing 
geo-politics of the region will make the prospects of a 
lasting  settlement  remote.  We  have  already  seen 
tension  between  Israel  and  Egypt.  We  have  already 
seen  the  fracturing  of  the  relationship  between  Israel 
and  Turkey.  We  do  not  know  how  long  the  current 
framework  of  the Arab  Peace  Plan  will  remain  on  the 
table. We are fearful of a further intifada of the type we 
have seen before. 
land  swaps.  I  have  argued 
that 
11-51179 

A/66/PV.18

As  a  friend  of  Israel,  we  are  fearful  that  in  the 
absence  of  a  negotiated  settlement,  Israel’s  security 
situation will deteriorate rapidly in the year ahead. As a 
friend  of  the  Palestinian  people,  we  believe  that  the 
time  has  come  for  direct  negotiations  to  establish  a 
Palestinian  State,  one  which  also  guarantees 
the 
security  of  Israel.  If  we  fail  to  achieve  this,  I  fear  the 
gravity of the consequences as the ground continues to 
change  across  the  wider  Middle  East.  I  note  also  that 
these  views  have  been  reflected  today  by  the  former 
Israeli Prime Minister Ehud Olmert.  

Australia therefore urges both parties to seize the 
day and to shape the future of a new Middle East. We 
await  the  outcome  from  the  weeks  that  lie  ahead  in 
New  York,  before  framing  our  response 
to  any 
particular resolution before the United Nations. 

Terrorism is the enemy of all civilized peoples. A 
decade  since  9/11,  terrorism  still  casts  a  deep  shadow 
over  the  security  and  safety  of  our  citizens.  Many  of 
Australia’s  finest  have  lost  their  lives  in  the  fight 
against terrorism in Afghanistan. Australia will stay the 
course  in  Afghanistan,  because  we  refuse  to  yield  to 
terrorism. 
terrorism 
thousands,  nuclear 

While 
proliferation 
threatens  millions.  Australia  remains 
vitally committed to the goal of a nuclear-weapon-free 
world  and  is  active  to  that  end.  That  is  why  we  have 
established  with  Japan 
the  Non-proliferation  and 
Disarmament Initiative — the NPDI — to take forward 
the  agenda  of  the  2010  Review  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons.  

As we speak in this Assembly, we should remind 
ourselves  that  a  fifth  of  humanity  lives  in  grinding 
poverty.  The  scale  of 
the  challenge  has  been 
graphically  demonstrated  by  this  year’s  devastating 
drought  in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  I  witnessed  how  bad 
things  are  when  I  visited  the  affected  areas  in  July. 
Australia  has  given  almost  US$  100  million.  We  are 
proud  to  be  the  fourth  largest  international  donor  to 
that crisis. We will continue to give. 

Last  year,  we  gathered  to  see  how  we  were 
tracking on our collective pledge to lift a billion people 
out of poverty by 2015. The report card was very poor. 
Most  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  are 
unlikely  to  be  achieved.  Australia  has  doubled  its 
official development assistance (ODA) budget over the 
past five years, and we are on track to double it again 
threatens 
3 

A/66/PV.18 

by  2015.  Based  on  available  data,  that  would  make 
Australia’s ODA budget the sixth largest in the world. 

The  international  community  must  get  behind 
both  regional  and  global  efforts  to  meet  the  strategic 
need  for  food  security.  With  a  forecast  global 
population  of  9.3  billion  by  2050,  an  estimated 
increase  of  70  per  cent  in  global  food  production  will 
be needed to feed the world.  

In  food  security,  we  should  also  be  blunt.  The 
Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  (FAO)  is  failing 
fully  to  meet  its  mandate  to  the  poor  of  the  world. 
Under  its  new  management,  FAO  needs  to  set  clear 
priorities for the future and eliminate the unsustainable 
administrative  overheads  it  has  long  tolerated.  If  FAO 
does not do so, Australia will comprehensively review 
its  development  funding  for  FAO  under  our  new  aid 
effectiveness criteria.  

Food  is  fundamental  to  development.  So  too  is 
the right to education. All of the world’s children must 
be given a chance at life that is good for them and good 
for their economies. For that reason, and learning from 
both the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and 
Malaria and the GAVI Alliance, Australia believes that 
the  time  has  come  for  the  international  community  to 
consider  developing  a  new  public-private  institution 
with an explicit mandate for school education. 
At present, this task is shared between the World 

Bank,  UNICEF  and  UNESCO,  with  negligible  private 
sector  buy-in.  We  should  consider,  therefore,  a  new 
global  fund  for  education  that  would  concentrate 
exclusively  on  the  immediate  task  of  getting  nearly 
70 million  children  into  schools  by  2015.  Australia 
would  consider  contributing  substantially  to  such  an 
institution to bring about real results at a rate as rapid 
as  possible.  I  challenge  education  donors,  current  and 
potential, to join such a fund. 

the  world’s  most  vulnerable 
peoples,  we  also  recognize  the  world’s  estimated 
370 million indigenous peoples, spread across 90 of the 
193  United  Nations  Member  States.  They  remain 
among the most marginalized and disadvantaged in the 
world, including in our country, Australia. That is why 
the  Australian  Government  has  reached  beyond  the 
apology 
to  pursue 
constitutional  recognition  for  our  First  Peoples.  And 
we  are  committed 
the  gap  between 
indigenous and non-indigenous Australians. 
the  Stolen  Generations 
In  supporting 
to 
to  closing 
Our  hope  of  answering 
in  climate  change,  biodiversity 

the  development 
challenges  of  the  world  is  inextricably  linked  to  the 
health  of  the  planet  itself.  The  planet  ultimately  can 
bear  only  so  much.  Scientists  tell  us  that  there  are 
planetary  boundaries  beyond  which  we  should  not 
venture  — 
loss, 
stratospheric  ozone  depletion,  chemical  pollution, 
ocean  acidification  and  the  depletion  of  freshwater 
reserves.  It  is  not  just  a  matter  of  atmospheric  limits, 
but of the oceans as well. 

Next year at Rio the international community will 
have  the  opportunity  to  act  decisively  to  protect  a 
planet  now  in  stress,  just  as  we  need  to  take  effective 
global  action  on  climate  change.  Climate  change  will 
not  go  away,  even  if  some  choose  the  easy  path  of 
simply hiding their heads in the sand. If we do that, our 
children and theirs will never forgive us — nor should 
they. 

As  the  global  community,  we  face  challenges  of 
historic  consequence  —  to  our  global  economy,  to 
global security, to the basic freedoms of all peoples, to 
our global environment, to the security of our citizens, 
to  our  obligation  to  the  world’s  poor  and  to  our 
planetary boundaries themselves. 

While so many challenges lie before us, the past 
year has proven that when the international community 
does act collectively and decisively, we can deliver — 
as  we  have  seen  in  the  decisions  of  the  Security 
Council  on  Libya  and  Côte  d’Ivoire.  But  to  be 
effective,  this  parliament  of  humankind,  these  United 
Nations, must continue to summon the political will of 
Member  States  to  make  our  global  institutions  work. 
Otherwise,  we  will  become  a  clanging  gong,  full  of 
sound  and  sentiment,  but  ultimately  symbolizing 
nothing. 

When  Secretary-General  Ban  came  to  Australia 
two weeks ago, he saw a country that values the rules-
based  system 
the  United  Nations  embodies. 
Australia today is a middle Power with global interests, 
animated  by  deep  values  of  freedom  and  a  fair  go  for 
all. This is the Australia we are proud of in its work in 
the  world.  This  is  the  Australia  that  believes  in  the 
principles of good international citizenship. This is the 
Australia that rolls up its sleeves, the Australia that by 
nature  wants  to  pitch  in,  the  Australia  that  wants  to 
make a difference for the betterment of all humankind. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Zalmai  Rassoul,  Minister 
that 
4 

11-51179 
the  Islamic  Republic  of 


for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Afghanistan. 
Mr. Rassoul (Afghanistan): I am honoured to be 

here  to  read  the  statement  of  my  President,  His 
Excellency Hâmid Karzai, who had to return from New 
York to Kabul on an urgent basis, following the tragic 
assassination, through a terrorist plot, of Afghanistan’s 
former  President  and  Chairman  of  the  High  Peace 
Council, Mr. Burhanuddin Rabbani. 


this 
to  attending 
The President’s message begins:  

“It is a great honour to address the General 
Assembly at this year’s session, although I regret 
that I am unable to do so in person. I was here in 
New  York  the  day  before  yesterday  and  had 
looked  forward 
important 
session of the Assembly. I had to return to Kabul 
after the tragic news of the martyrdom of former 
President  and  Chairman  of  the  Afghan  High 
Peace  Council,  Professor  Burhanuddin  Rabbani. 
He  was  assassinated  in  a  cowardly  terrorist  plot 
by the enemies of peace in our country. 

“As I speak, the Afghan nation is mourning 
the loss not only of a valued and deeply respected 
national  figure,  but  a  champion  of  peace  who 
worked  tirelessly,  up  to  the  last  moment  of  his 
distinguished  life,  for  peace  in  his  country.  On 
behalf of the Afghan people, I am grateful for the 
messages  of  condolences  expressed  by  leaders 
around  the  world  at  this  terrible  national  loss  in 
Afghanistan. 

“As  the  single  largest  gathering  of  nations, 
the Assembly  is  the  highest  manifestation  of  the 
plurality of our world. It is also the most solemn 
opportunity  we  have,  once  a  year,  to  bring  to 
global  attention  our  national  concerns  and  to 
issues  that  are,  in  our  view,  of  concern  to  the 
wider world. 

“Over the past year, the world saw not only 
political  volatility  of  historic  proportions  in  the 
Middle  East,  but  also  an  unabated  global 
economic  crisis,  huge  increases  in  the  prices  of 
food  and  energy  and  enormous  devastation 
wrought  by  natural  disasters.  Most  countries 
around the world have seen aggravated conditions 
of life for their peoples, and for many others the 
future looks continuously bleak. In short, we live 
in  times  of  uncertainty  and  crisis,  and  it  is  at 








A/66/PV.18
loss,  which 
times  like  these  that  international  cooperation 
gains true relevance and meaning. 

“Ten  days  ago,  this  very  city  marked  the 
tenth anniversary of the 9/11 terrorist attacks. On 
behalf  of  the  people  of  Afghanistan,  who  have 
experienced the scourge of terrorism in its worst 
imaginable form, I pay homage and respect to the 
memory  of  the  9/11  tragedy  and  commiserate 
with  the  people  of  the  United  States  for  their 
sense  of 
this  anniversary  has 
rekindled. 

“On  this  occasion,  I  urge  the  Assembly  to 
also  reflect  on  the  millions  of  lives  around  the 
world  that  were  touched  by  terror  and  violence 
before  9/11  and  those  that  have  been  lost  to 
terrorist violence over the 10 years since.  

“My  country, Afghanistan,  has  suffered  the 
most,  but  many  —  from  Pakistan  to  India,  Iraq, 
Europe  and  many  others  around  the  world  — 
have  fallen  victim  to  this  modern-day  enemy  of 
peace.  I  urge  the  Assembly  to  also  honour  the 
sacrifices  many  nations  have  made  in  the  fight 
against  terrorism  around  the  world.  Above  all, 
however,  I  ask  that  we  pause  and  take  stock  of 
where we are 10 years after the world was shaken 
into an unprecedented resolve to act in the face of 
a common enemy. 

“Later this year, Afghanistan will also mark 
the  anniversary  of  10  years  of  the  new  political 
era  heralded  by  the  end  of  the  Taliban  rule  and 
characterized  by  the  beginning  of  a  journey 
towards  a  peaceful,  prosperous  and  democratic 
way  of  life.  There  is  so  much  that  we  have  to 
celebrate in the enormous achievements we have 
had, with the solidarity and generous help of the 
international  community.  These  10  years  have 
been  a  truly  unique  chapter  in  the  history  of  our 
ancient country.  
“Grasping  the  opportunity,  we  took  bold 

steps to reunite the country after decades of strife 
and  violence,  laying  the  foundations  of  a  young 
democracy.  Our 
economic 
accomplishments  are  phenomenal,  greater  by 
comparison  than  in  any  other  period  in  our 
country’s  history.  Never  before  have  the Afghan 
people  enjoyed  comparable  access  to  education 
and  health  or  seen  a  greater  development  of 
infrastructure across the country. 
social 
and 
11-51179 

5 

region,  which  keeps 
is,  without  a  doubt, 
security.  Despite 
embrace  of 
terrorism  and 

“Regrettably,  the  sense  of  gratitude  and 
pride we feel at our achievements is tempered by 
the  absence  of  a  key  ingredient  of  any  country’s 
development,  namely 
the 
the 
Afghan  people’s 
sincere 
international  fight  against 
the 
immeasurable  sacrifices  made  on  this  path,  we 
have yet to reap the rewards of experiencing a life 
free from violence and terror. 

“We  Afghans  are  proud  to  have  partnered, 
over  the  past  10  years,  with  the  world’s  struggle 
against terrorism. While together we have fought 
and crushed extremists in some of their long-held 
strongholds,  elsewhere  they  have  continued  to 
thrive.  Today,  we  see  a  worrying  trend  towards 
increased  radicalization  of  the  youth.  Al-Qaida, 
despite  the  elimination  of  its  leaders,  remains 
active  in  the  region,  and  the  Taliban  militancy 
maintains  its  deadly  spectre  over  my  country. 
Both continue to receive sanctuary and support in 
them  alive.  This 
the 
sanctuary  problem 
the 
Achilles’ heel of this war.  

“To  the  extent  that  international  terrorism 
and extremism remain real threats to international 
security,  peace  will  remain  mortgaged  to  the 
success  of  the  fight  in  the  region.  To  succeed, 
however,  we  must  fundamentally  review  and 
adjust  our  approaches  in  this  fight.  It  is  urgent 
that we focus our strategy to make our collective 
struggle more objective and results-oriented. Our 
enemy  must  not  be  defined  by  a  selective 
treatment  of  the  geography  to  which  we  have 
access,  but  by  an  assessment  of  the  threat  it 
poses, regardless of where it may be based. 
ardent 

supporters  of 
international 
terrorism,  despite  having  suffered  unspeakable 
losses in this endeavour. However, we fail to see 
the  efficacy  of  the  fight  in  which  ordinary 
citizens bear the brunt while terrorist sanctuaries 
remain  untouched,  far  away  from  the  towns  and 
villages of Afghanistan. The continued credibility 
of  the  fight  will  depend  above  all  on  taking  its 
focus to where terrorism originates. 

“On  the  other  hand,  when  it  comes  to  the 
Taliban insurgency, we do not see military action 
as  the  only  solution.  In  our  eager  quest  for 
the  fight  against 
“The  Afghan 
people 
remain 
A/66/PV.18 






6 





life  and 
restoring  peace  to  the  lives  of  our  people,  we 
have extended a hand of peace and reconciliation 
to  all  those  Afghans  who  have  had  reason  to 
remain  outside  the  boundaries  of  the  current 
political process in Afghanistan. 

“Led  until  now  by  the  late  Mr.  Rabbani, 
who is tragically no longer among us, through the 
High  Peace  Council,  and  supported  by  our 
partners  from  the  international  community,  the 
peace process is a comprehensive effort. It covers 
into 
the  reintegration  of  armed  combatants 
dignified  civilian 
reconciles 
the 
leadership of the Taliban. 

“The  reconciliation  policy  is  based  on  our 
commitment  to  make  the  political  process  more 
inclusive and to provide a genuine and acceptable 
alternative  to  violence  for  all  Taliban  and  other 
militant  leaders,  most  of  whom  are  currently 
based  outside  Afghanistan.  Those  leaders  are 
welcome  to  return  home  and  play  their  proper 
role  in  Afghan  politics  and  Government  — 
provided that they break ties with Al-Qaida, give 
up  violent  activities  and  accept  the  Afghan 
Constitution. Clearly, without sincere cooperation 
from  regional  and  international  partners,  notably 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Pakistan,  this  strategy 
will not succeed. 

is  a  crucial  year  for 
Afghanistan. The most important development for 
our  country  was  the  commencement  of  the 
transition process last July. This process will see 
the  complete  transfer  of  security  responsibility 
from international forces to Afghans by the end of 
2014.  With  the  completion  of  the  transition 
process,  we  Afghans  and  our 
international 
partners will achieve the most important strategic 
goal of our 10-year partnership: the emergence of 
a sovereign Afghanistan that is self-reliant and is 
the peaceful home of all Afghans, an Afghanistan 
that is at peace and lives in peace with the rest of 
the world. 
the 

the  success  of 
transition  process  depends  on,  besides 
the 
demand  and  solid  resolve  of  the Afghan  people, 
the  continued  support  of 
international 
community.  The  role  of  our  NATO  partners, 
particularly in terms of the capacity development 
of our security institutions, will be vital. 
“The  year  2011 
“Needless 
to  say, 
the 
11-51179 






forces 
foreign 
the  withdrawal  of 

“On  the  other  hand,  transition  is  not  just 
limited  to  security.  Indeed,  while  transition  is 
both desirable and inevitable, the economic effect 
of 
from 
Afghanistan  needs  to  be  managed  carefully.  In 
other words, for Afghanistan to become truly self-
reliant, apart from the security transition, we will 
need  a  comprehensive  economic  transition.  That 
transition will take much longer than the security 
transition  and  will  require  the  continuation  of 
steadfast  support  on  the  part  of  our  international 
partners beyond 2014. 
“In  this  context,  we  look  forward  to  the 

much  awaited 
International  Conference  on 
Afghanistan,  to  be  held  in  Bonn,  Germany,  on 
5 December  2011.  Hosted  by  Germany  and 
chaired by Afghanistan, the Bonn conference will 
be an opportunity for us to brief our international 
partners  about  the  major  Compact  accomplishments 
of  the  past  10  years,  and  in  particular  about  the 
progress  of  the  Transition  and  reconciliation 
processes. 

“Most importantly, at Bonn we will call for 
continued  commitment  of 
international 
community to assist Afghanistan in the post-2014 
period,  after  the  foreign  military  presence  on 
Afghanistan soil comes to an end. To that end, we 
will share our vision for the next 10 years — the 
vision  of  developing  Afghanistan  into  a  stable 
country, 
a 
prospering economy. As a country at the centre of 
an  emerging  ‘new  silk  road’,  Afghanistan  can 
become a regional hub for trade and transit. This 
vision  is  worth  all  the  efforts  we  Afghans  can 
muster, as well as all the support we can get from 
the international community. 

“As a framework for long-term partnership, 
we  will  call  for  a  new  paradigm  of  cooperation 
between  Afghanistan  and  our 
friends  and 
partners.  The  strategic  partnership  that  we  are 
currently  negotiating  with  the  United  States  and 
other  partners,  including  the  European  Union, 
will  be  a  model  for  the  kind  of  enduring  and 
comprehensive partnership we wish to have with 
members  of  the  international  community.  Such 
partnerships  will  help  guarantee  Afghanistan’s 
security and stability, as well as assist our future 
economic  development.  I  emphasize  that  neither 
our  strategic  partnership  with  the  United  States, 
functioning  democracy 
and 
the 
a 




A/66/PV.18
to 
nor  any  other  partnerships  we  will  forge  in  the 
future, will be a threat to our neighbours or to any 
other country. 

“I  also  emphasize  that  in  the  context  of 
these future partnerships, the principle of Afghan 
sovereignty and the centrality of the Afghan State 
must  be  given  due  credence;  the  manner  of  our 
continued  partnership  should  conform  to  the 
requirements  of  a  sovereign  Afghanistan.  As  an 
important  step  in  this  direction,  all  the  parallel 
structures created by the international community, 
be  it  in  the  security,  governance  or  development 
arenas,  must  be  removed  to  make  space  for  the 
emergence  of  genuine  and  capable  indigenous 
institutions. 
“In particular, the role of the United Nations 

in  Afghanistan  must  be  adjusted 
the 
requirements  of  Afghan  sovereignty.  I  welcome 
the review of the mandate  of the United Nations 
Assistance Mission in Afghanistan, as authorized 
by  the  Secretary-General.  In  the  months  ahead, 
we  look  forward  to  participating  in  this  review 
and to its positive conclusion. 

“On the subject of regional cooperation, we 
are  currently  working  closely  with Afghanistan’s 
old  friend  and  brother,  the  Republic  of  Turkey, 
towards  a  regional  conference  to  be  held  in 
Istanbul on 2 November 2011. Hosted by Turkey 
and  championed  by  Afghanistan,  the  Istanbul 
Conference  will  help  build  a  common  regional 
vision  for  peace  and  stability.  The  Conference 
will recognize Afghanistan’s quest for stability, as 
well as the region’s growing need for confidence-
building  and  cooperation  in  the  face  of  the 
common  challenges  we  face,  notably  terrorism, 
extremism, 
to 
legitimate interaction and movement, to name but 
a few. 

the  past  10  years,  we  have 
undertaken  numerous 
to  promote 
regional cooperation, mainly with a view to trade 
and  economic  activities.  However,  we  have 
learned that unless we boldly address our political 
differences and the deficit of trust and confidence 
that divides the region, regional cooperation will 
remain an aspiration. It is for that very reason that 
at  the  Istanbul  Conference  we  will  aim  to  focus 
on political and security issues. 
trade  and  obstacles 
initiatives 
the  drug 
“Over 
11-51179 

7 
“In 
today’s 
interconnected 
are 
particularly 
concerned 
in  Libya.  We 

“In  the  coming  weeks,  we  will  expect  to 
consult  with  all  countries  in  the  Heart  of  Asia 
region to develop a common understanding in the 
run-up to the Conference. 

world, 
developments in Afghanistan and the surrounding 
region  are  hugely  influenced  by  events  in  the 
wider  world.  Therefore,  we  in  Afghanistan  are 
closely watching the situation in the Middle East. 
As  a  nation 
that  has  experienced  war  and 
destruction  for  many  years,  the  eruption  of 
violence  in  these  countries  fills  us  with  anxiety. 
the 
We 
developments 
the 
National  Transitional  Council  as  the  legitimate 
Government  of  Libya.  However,  based  on  our 
own  experience,  we  urge  the  brotherly  Libyan 
nation  to  recall  that  the  shortest  route  to  peace 
will  be 
inclusivity  and 
safeguarding the unity of the Libyan nation. 

deeply 
sympathize  with  the  plight  of  our  brothers  and 
sisters  in  Palestine.  We  reiterate  our  call  for  an 
immediate  end 
the 
realization  of  their  inalienable  rights,  including 
the  right 
this 
connection,  we  stand  firmly  behind  the  efforts 
aimed  at  Palestine’s  admission  as  a  full  Member  

independent  State.  In 
by 
recognize 
to 
their  suffering  and 
through  ensuring 
“The 
people 
of  Afghanistan 
to  an 
A/66/PV.18 





8 






of  the  United  Nations.  I  hope  that  this  year  we 
will witness, with pride, the inclusion of Palestine 
as the 194th Member of the United Nations. 

“The Afghan people also shared the pain of 
the loss experienced by the Japanese people when 
the natural disasters struck earlier this year. Japan 
is  a  longstanding  friend  of  Afghanistan,  and  we 
are  confident  that  this  great  nation  will  soon 
overcome the challenges of recovery. 

“The  Assembly  is  a  manifestation  of  our 
collective  will  to  stand  together  against  the 
challenges that face human society and to realize 
the potential for a peaceful and prosperous world 
for all. Our gathering here is also a testimony to 
the valuable role that the United Nations plays in 
the  realization  of  our  collective  will.  I  applaud 
the  remarkable  leadership  that  Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon  has  demonstrated  in  steering  the 
United  Nations  in  a  direction  where  it  can  truly 
become an asset to a peaceful world. 

“Finally,  many  countries  from  across  the 
globe  have  stood  in  solidarity,  over  the  past 
10 years,  with  the  Afghan  people.  On  behalf  of 
the people of Afghanistan, I again thank them for 
their support.” 
  The meeting rose at 9 p.m. 
11-51179 
