
A/66/PV.30
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

30th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 27 September 2011, 6 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 








  In the absence of The President, Mr. Thomson 
(Fiji), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 6.20 p.m. 


Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His Excellency Mr. Libran Cabactulan, chairman of the 
delegation of the Philippines. 
Mr.  Cabactulan  (Philippines):  Allow  me  at  the 

outset  to  congratulate  Ambassador  Nassir  Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser on his election and to offer the Philippines’ 
full support for his leadership in this sixty-sixth session 
of the General Assembly. 

Our  collective  experience  as  one  United  Nations 
has  brought  into  focus  the  reality  that  only  when 
nations  work  together  in  firm  and  determined  resolve 
can  we  begin  to  address  the  many  difficulties  that 
confront us. Two global wars exposed our vulnerability 
to  leaders  and  nations  that  do  not  hesitate  to  use 
violence  to  resolve  disputes  and  underscored  the  need 
for an international system to govern the behaviour of 
States. 

That is the rules-based framework that underpins 
everything  we  want  to  build,  raise  and  do  as  one 
United Nations. That framework — built on our shared 
values and common aspirations — provides the way by 
which we can effectively move together as one global 
community  towards  our  common  objectives.  For  the 
Philippines,  therefore,  this  session’s  theme  —  “The 
role  of  mediation  in  the  settlement  of  disputes  by 
peaceful means” — is most relevant and opportune.  

A  rules-based  system  will  work  in  a  sustained 
manner  only  if  the  rules  themselves  are  based  on 
principles  of  justice  and  equity.  Recent  events  across 
the globe, particularly in the Middle East, have shown 
us that individuals rise together for what they believe is 
just  and  equitable.  Individuals  clamour  for  the  rule  of 
law based on equity and fairness. When they realize the 
injustice of repressive and iniquitous rule, they do not 
hesitate to bring effective and positive change.  

We  must  continue  to  work  to  eliminate  nuclear 
weapons  and  curtail  the  illicit  trade  in  conventional 
weapons  and  in  small  and  light  arms  in  order  to 
preserve peace and our very existence. The successful 
2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on 
the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons showed the 
collective  resolve  of  States  parties  to  move  further 
forward  in  ridding  the  world  of  those  weapons.  We 
have  already  agreed  to  convene  a  conference  by  2012 
on  the  establishment  of  a  Middle  East  zone  free  of 
nuclear  weapons  and  other  weapons  of  mass 
destruction. The holding of that conference will take us 
closer to our goal.  

to  provide  and 
strengthen  conditions  that  encourage  the  full  progress 
and  prosperity  of  all  nations  and  peoples.  We  must 
ensure 
trade  and  development 
support  that  end. The  Philippines  therefore  calls  for  a 
fair,  open  and  rules-based  multilateral  trading  system 
To  build  peace,  we  need 
international 
that 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-51687 (E) 
*1151687* 

to  global 
to  achieve 
redouble  our  efforts 
A/66/PV.30 

and  the  conclusion  of  the  Doha  Round.  We  must 
likewise 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  target  date  of 
2015 is upon us and much work remains to be done. 

Mr.  Archondo  (Bolivia),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
The  Philippines  is  one  of  world’s  17  mega-

diverse countries and has a great stake in ensuring that 
global  biodiversity  is  protected  and  maintained.  We 
have  been  described  as  the  epicentre  of  global  marine 
biodiversity, and we host the Association of Southeast 
Asian  Nations  (ASEAN)  Center  for  Biodiversity.  As 
we look forward to the United Nations Conference on 
Sustainable Development next year, we join the call for 
a  more  powerful  expression  of  the  entire  world’s 
political commitment to sustainable development. 

With  the  human  person  at  the  core  of  all  our 
efforts, we must always strive to uphold human dignity 
and human rights. That holds true for migrant workers. 
The  Philippines  has  close  to  10  million  Filipinos 
overseas,  contributing 
socio-economic 
development. In line with the rules-based approach, the 
Philippines  supports  the  establishment  of  guidelines 
that would ensure the welfare of all migrant workers. 

Additionally,  we  must  renew  our  resolve  to 
address the evils of human trafficking. The Philippines 
is a founding member of the Group of  Friends United 
against Human Trafficking, an informal  association  of 
United  Nations  Member  States  that  seeks  to  help 
reinvigorate  and  consolidate  the  global  fight  against 
trafficking in persons. At the core of the initiative is the 
implementation  of  the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of 
Action to Combat Trafficking in Persons. 

Aside  from  establishing  rules  to  protect  migrant 
workers  and  to  prevent  human  trafficking,  the  global 
community  needs 
to  more 
effectively  assist  developing  countries  in  evacuating 
their  nationals  in  instances  of  disaster  or  internal 
conflict.  The  Philippines  also  supports  efforts  at  the 
United Nations to enhance partnerships, including with 
private sector actors, in strengthening the international 
humanitarian and emergency response system. 

The  Philippines  recognizes  that  the  promotion 
and protection of human rights are of vital importance 
to  securing  peace  and  socio-economic  development, 
promoting 
strengthening 
democracies.  The  Philippines  Government  likewise 
to  explore  measures 
law  and 
rule  of 
the 

impunity, 
the  world  against 
recognizes women as agents of socio-economic growth 
and  change,  and  thus  strongly  advocates  their  full 
participation in nation-building. 

The  Philippines  is  pleased  to  announce  that,  on 
30 August, we deposited our instrument of ratification 
of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court. This was an historic moment for my country and 
my  people. We  have  stood  up  against  the  impunity  of 
colonial  rule  and  of  a  dictatorship.  Now,  we  stand 
together  with  the  rest  of  the  world  in  saying  “never 
again” to impunity in any corner of our world. 
Firm  in  the  desire  to  contribute  to  global  efforts 

to 
safeguard 
the 
Philippines  has  fielded  a  candidate  for  election  to  the 
Court,  Ms.  Miriam  Defensor-Santiago,  an  experienced 
trial  judge  and  international  legal  scholar  with  a 
distinguished and long career in public service. We ask 
all our partners and friends to support her candidature. 

As  we  look  to  strengthen  the  ramparts  of  peace, 
we  recognize  the  important  role  and  contributions  of 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding.  The 
Philippines stands ready to do its part to ensure that the 
lines of peace are fortified and continuously expanded. 
The  Philippines  lauds  the  heightened  interaction  and 
dialogue among the Secretariat, the General Assembly, 
the  Security  Council,  troop-  and  police-contributing 
countries  and  other  key  stakeholders  in  the  global 
peacekeeping agenda. 

As we strive to reinforce peacekeeping operations 
on  land,  so  too  should  we  continue  to  exert  efforts  in 
maintaining  stability  and  security  at  sea.  Maritime 
piracy,  after  all,  imperils  the  lives  of  seafarers  and 
disrupts  global 
trade.  Today,  around  70  Filipino 
seafarers  are  still  being  held  hostage  by  pirates 
operating  in  the  Gulf  of  Aden  and  the  wider  Indian 
Ocean. We must continue to work diligently to counter 
these  sea  pirates,  who  have  no  place  in  our  modern, 
civilized world.  
rules-based 

regime, the Philippines advocates reforming the United 
Nations,  particularly  the  Security  Council,  to  make  it 
more  resilient,  relevant  and  responsive.  The  record 
shows that it is only the Philippines that has presented 
specific  drafts  resolutions  concretely  setting  forth 
proposals  on 
issues:  categories  of 
membership, question of the veto, size of the enlarged 
Security  Council  and  working  methods,  relationship 
the  five  key 
international 
strengthen 
the 
To 
2 

11-51687 
to 
is 
how 
examine 
the  Security 
intolerance  and 
the  bedrock  on  which 
the  General  Assembly  and 


between 
Council, and the question of regional representation. 

Terrorism continues to cast its dark shadow on all 
of  us.  The  decapitation  of  terrorist  organizations  has 
not put an end to terrorism. We need to address the root 
causes  and  conditions  that  turn  individuals  with  so 
much  passion  into  beasts  that  know  nothing  but 
violence to achieve their ends. Among many things, we 
need 
economic 
further 
disenfranchisement, 
radicalization 
contribute to the growth of terrorist groups. 

The  rule  of  law,  including  the  1982  United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), 
is  the  key  to  finding  solutions  to  disputes  over 
conflicting  claims  in  the  West  Philippine  Sea.  As  we 
prepare  to  commemorate  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of 
UNCLOS next year, let all States parties remember not 
just our rights, but also our obligations, for the rule of 
law 
the  growth  and 
development  of  our  community  of  nations  is  built. 
Adherence  to  the  rule  of  law  provides  stability  and 
certainty in the conduct of relations among States. In a 
world  defined  by  unequal  distribution  of  economic, 
military  and  political  resources  and  might,  the  rule  of 
law  is  the  great  equalizer,  ensuring  that  rights  are 
protected 
complied  with. 
Adherence  to  the  rule  of  law  prevents  conflicts.  In 
instances of dispute, particularly of a territorial nature, 
the  rule  of  law  ensures  a  peaceful  settlement  and 
resolution. 

The rule of law has guided the Philippines in all 
its actions as a responsible member of the international 
community. The Philippines realizes that only when the 
rule of law prevails can all stakeholders and the world 
benefit  from  a  region  of  such  importance  strategically 
and in terms of resources. We adhere to ASEAN’s 1992 
Manila declaration on the West Philippine Sea and the 
2002 declaration on the conduct of parties in the West 
Philippine  Sea.  We  call  on  other  parties  to  do  so  as 
well. We also welcome the efforts and support of other 
stakeholders  in  working  towards  a  lasting,  just  and 
peaceful  solution  to  the  conflicting  claims  in  our 
region.  

that 
underpinning  the  success  of  all  our  efforts  in  the 
United  Nations  is  adherence  to  the  rule  of  law  and  a 
rules-based international system. Out of the horrors of 
war,  we  have  resolved  as  one  global  community  to 
responsibilities 
conclude  by 
Allow  me 
saying 
and 
to 
A/66/PV.30
to 
like 
I  would 
this  Assembly  as 
build  and  strengthen  the  ramparts  of  peace  and 
development.  Those  ramparts,  strong  as  they  may  be, 
can  easily  disintegrate  when  even  just  one  nation 
behaves  contrary  to  the  rules  and  norms  we  have  all 
agreed  to  abide  by.  It  is  our  obligation  as  individual 
sovereigns States and as a collective global community 
that  all  nations,  large  or  small,  behave  responsibly 
through  the  adherence  to  the  rule  of  law  and  a  rules-
based  regime.  Only  then  can  we  hope  to  enjoy  the 
benefits of our world and live together in greater peace, 
progress and prosperity. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His Excellency Mr. Vince Henderson, chairman of the 
delegation of the Commonwealth of Dominica. 
Mr.  Henderson  (Dominica):  On  behalf  of  my 

delegation  and  the  Government  and  the  people  of  the 
Commonwealth  of  Dominica, 
to 
congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser  on  his  assumption  of  the  presidency  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session,  and  to 
assure  him  of  our  full  cooperation.  We  are  confident 
that  with  his  skills  and  experience,  he  will  bring 
leadership 
the 
extensive  and  important  agenda  of  this  sixty-sixth 
session.  

I  also  extend  a  special  welcome  to  the  newest 
member  of  this  Assembly,  the  Republic  of  South 
Sudan, which became the 193rd Member of the United 
Nations in July. 
to  convey  Dominica’s 

to  Mr.  Al-Nasser’s  predecessor,  His 
appreciation 
Excellency Mr. Joseph Deiss, for having so ably guided 
the proceedings of the sixty-fifth session of the General 
Assembly.  We  also  express  our  gratitude  for  the 
continued efforts of His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-Moon 
and for his leadership at this most challenging time. 

This  meeting  is  being  convened  at  a  time  of 
tremendous  global  insecurity.  Never  in  the  history  of 
humankind  have  we  had  to  struggle  for  our  own 
existence as we have done in this past decade. We are 
still  faced  with  unstable  global  financial  markets, 
issues of food availability and affordability, increasing 
unrest in some regions and the high cost of energy, and 
we  seem  set  to  endure  the  mounting  consequences  of 
Mother Earth’s response to decades of global warming. 

the 
Caribbean Sea, are again in hurricane season, a period 
like  Dominica, 
I  would  also 
it  addresses 
Countries 
located 
like 
in 
11-51687 

3 

in 
that  we 
A/66/PV.30 

of  high  vulnerability 
the  Caribbean 
experience for a period of four to six months each year. 
Fresh  in  our  minds  are  the  recent  unfortunate  events 
that  took  place  in  the  eastern  United  States.  For  the 
first  time  in  its  recorded  history,  the  city  in  which  we 
are convened came to a complete standstill because of 
Hurricane Irene in late August. 

We  in  the  Caribbean  understand  clearly  the 
challenges  faced  in  the  aftermath  of  hurricanes,  as 
these are the kinds of disasters that small island States 
such  as  Dominica  are  forced  to  routinely  schedule  on 
our calendar of events and brace for every six months. 
For us, each year’s recovery efforts could become next 
year’s destruction point. On behalf of my delegation, I 
extend my condolences to and empathize with all those 
who were affected by Hurricane Irene. 

For  reasons  such  as  these,  each  year  we  come 
before this Assembly to report on the deterioration not 
only  of  the  environment,  but  also  of  climate  change 
negotiations.  With  full  knowledge  that  these  impacts 
are projected to increase over time, we believe that we 
can  build  on  a  number  of  outcomes  agreed  to  in 
Cancún. We also believe that although some responses 
might not meet every Member State’s expectation, they 
could  act  as  catalysts  and  springboards  for  new 
approaches and new solutions in Durban. 

As  witnesses  to  environmental  degradation  at  a 
time when reliance on the ecosystem to provide energy 
for  basic  needs  continues  to  intensify,  we  as  a  people 
cannot  continue  to  ignore  the  subject  of  climate 
change.  We  believe  that  climate  change  is  an  energy-
related 
the  provision  of  reliable, 
accessible  and  affordable  energy  and  its  by-products 
are  critical 
the 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. 

Despite  unfulfilled  promises  and  a  slow  start  to 
fast-start funding, we must report on actions advanced 
since Cancún that have helped position the small island 
developing  States  (SIDS)  to  transform  their  energy 
sectors.  Specifically,  I  refer  to  the  SIDS  Sustainable 
Energy Initiative, also known as SIDS DOCK.  

Almost  30  SIDS  have  signed  an  agreement  to 
establish  this  initiative,  created  by  the  Alliance  of 
Small Island States (AOSIS) under the chairmanship of 
Grenada  and  in  partnership  with  the  Government  of 
Denmark, the United Nations Development Programme 
and the World Bank. We wish to thank the Government 
of Denmark for its significant financial contribution to 
to  sustainable  development  and 
issue  and 
that 
the 
to  address 
operationalizing this facility and for the leadership that 
it  has  given  and  continues  to  give  to  the  process.  My 
delegation expresses its gratitude to the other members 
of  AOSIS  for  staying 
the  course  and  reaffirms 
Dominica’s commitment to the initiative. 

SIDS  DOCK  was  the  outstanding  outcome  for 
SIDS at Cancún, and, as we set our sights on Durban, 
the  expectation  is  that  other  partners  will  support  the 
initiative, which is set to transform the energy sector in 
SIDS.  It  is  our  hope  that  sufficient  progress  will  be 
made in negotiating appropriate measures that might be 
implemented 
losses  and  damage 
associated  with  the  adverse  effects  of  climate  change, 
including impacts related to extreme weather as well as 
slow-onset events. 

These two initiatives are within the framework of 
the Bali Road Map and Action Plan and reflect actions 
that are geared towards the fulfilment of commitments 
and giving effect to the Cancún decisions. 

It  is  no  secret  that  the  Kyoto  Protocol  is  in 
serious  trouble.  While  it  represents  less  than  30  per 
cent  of  greenhouse-gas  emissions,  it  remains  the  only 
legally  binding  global  agreement  in  our  quest  to 
address the growing threat of climate change. In order 
to build on the gains made under the first commitment 
period,  we  must  ensure  that  the  broad  principles 
secured  in  the  Kyoto  Protocol  are  maintained  in  any 
legally binding global agreement at Durban. 

A sustainable energy sector is the foundation for 
sustainable development in small island States such as 
Dominica.  For  the  past  decade,  Dominica  has  been 
working  towards  the  development  of  our  geothermal 
potential,  with  the  assistance  of  international  agencies 
and development partners. 

the 
European  Union,  the  Government  of  France  and  the 
Regional  Councils  of  Guadeloupe  and  Martinique,  we 
are  now  closer 
the  realization  of  our  goal. 
Preparation  for  drilling  has  begun,  and  the  three  test 
wells will be complete by the end of 2011. 

The development of our geothermal potential will 
provide  us  with  the  capacity  to  meet  our  domestic 
needs  and  supply  electricity  to  our  neighbouring 
islands, especially the French territories of Guadeloupe 
and Martinique, through our connection via submarine 
cables.  With 
this  displacement  of  hundreds  of 
megawatts of fossil-generated power, coupled with our 
the  support  and  contribution  of 
With 
to 
4 

11-51687 
impeding 
initiatives. 
renewable-energy 


sustainable development practices, Dominica’s target is 
to be not only carbon-neutral but also carbon-negative 
by the year 2020. 
Like  Dominica,  many  SIDS  are  pursuing  their 

own 
However, 
unsustainable  debt  burdens  and  lack  of  technology 
have made such initiatives almost impossible for some 
SIDS.  We 
invite  other  developed  countries  and 
international  institutions  to  join  the  Government  of 
Denmark  in  SIDS  DOCK  and  the  Government  of 
Norway in its “Energy for all” initiative, by providing 
the critical support that SIDS so desperately need. 

We  in  the  SIDS  are  committed  to  playing  our 
part; suffice it to say, however, that there are still some 
major  obstacles 
the  pace  of  progress, 
particularly financing for SIDS-appropriate technology 
and transfer. As part of the United Nations Conference 
on  Sustainable  Development 
(Rio+20)  process, 
Dominica calls on the Secretary-General to establish a 
special  SIDS-appropriate  technology  fund  to  address 
the issue of innovative financing for sustainable energy 
technology  transfer  and  development  for  small  island 
States.  In  that  regard,  we  also  ask  that  the  Secretary-
General  consider  appointing  a  goodwill  ambassador 
tasked with advocating on behalf of SIDS and helping 
the  Secretary-General  in  supporting  the  Fund.  The 
effective transfer and development of SIDS-appropriate 
technology  is  essential  for  SIDS  to  build  resilience  to 
the present and future impacts of climate change. 
In  addition  to  looking  forward  to  securing  a 

renewed 
sustainable 
development  at  Rio+20,  the  SIDS  expect  that  the 
international  community  will  reaffirm  their  support 
with  the  new  and  additional  resources  required  to 
implement  the  programmes  and  activities  agreed  to, 
from Agenda 21 to the Barbados Programme of Action 
and 
further 
implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action.  

renewed  commitments  and  agreements 
reached at Rio+20 must address the major impediments 
to implementing these summit outcomes, including the 
limited  technical,  financial  and  human  resources,  as 
well  as  the  impact  of  exogenous  factors,  particularly 
the global financial crisis. 
There  is  no  denying  the  importance  of  national 

security 
the  unregulated, 
non-standardized  and  highly  dangerous  trade  in  arms 
and ammunition poses great threats to law and order in 
the  Mauritius  Strategy 
commitment 
political 
Any 
to 
a 
society; 
thus 
for 
for 
the 
A/66/PV.30
to 
trade 
region 
Negotiations  on  an  arms 
its  most  productive  members 
is  not  a 
our  societies.  The  Caribbean 
manufacturer  of  arms  or  ammunition,  yet 
large 
quantities  of  illegal  firearms  and  ammunition  often 
associated  with  the  illegal  drug  trade  are  transferred 
across our borders, infiltrating our society and causing 
mayhem  and  death,  overburdening  our  health-care 
system  and  contributing  to  the  destabilization  of 
economic progress and well-being. The region has lost 
some  of 
this 
unregulated  transfer  of  arms.  This  is  an  unsustainable 
situation  for  any  country,  but  even  more  so  for  small 
island States. 

treaty  are 
welcome,  and,  as  stated  in  the  Caribbean  Community 
Declaration  on  Small  Arms  and  Light  Weapons, 
Dominica is committed to full and active participation 
in  all  efforts  related  to  the  issue  of  small  arms.  Of 
particular  importance  is  the  2012  review  of  the  2001 
Programme  of  Action 
to  Prevent,  Combat  and 
Eradicate  the  Illicit  Trade  in  Small  Arms  and  Light 
Weapons in All Its Aspects, as well as the 2012 United 
Nations Conference on the Arms Trade Treaty. 

In  the  absence  of  these  and  other  initiatives  to 
help  combat  global  insecurity,  threats  to  global  peace 
and security will continue to multiply in both intensity 
and form. Multilateralism must take centre stage in the 
struggle to deal with these challenges. The work of the 
United  Nations  is  therefore  paramount  in  maintaining 
world  peace  and  security.  In  its  maintenance  of  this 
role,  the  United  Nations  must  be  able  to  clearly 
demonstrate  legitimacy  and  fairness  in  its  actions, 
cognizant  always  of  the  need  to  protect  the  most 
vulnerable. 

The ability of the Security Council to adequately 
respond  to  new  and  changing  world  dynamics  rests 
with  its  acceptance  of  the  need  for  continuous  reform 
to  adapt  to  the  times,  including  a  recognition  of  the 
increase in size of the United Nations membership and 
global  economic  power  shifts.  Reform  reflects  more 
than  representation  and,  in  this  situation,  should 
promote  adaptation  to  the  needs  of  Members  and  the 
drafting  of  strategies  that  would  contribute  to  ending 
wars and halting disputes. 

In  that  regard,  we  welcome  Mr.  Al-Nasser’s 
proposal of “The role of mediation in the settlement of 
disputes by peaceful means” as the theme for the high-
level  debate  at  the  opening  of  this  session  of  the 
General Assembly. 
11-51687 

5 

the 
to  discontinue 
the  earthquake 
that  devastated 
for  sovereignty  and 
living.  The  paralysis  of 
A/66/PV.30 


Earlier  I  spoke  of  the  threats  which  plague 
mankind in this era of globalization. I also highlighted 
the  need  for  multilateralism  and  for  cooperation 
between  and  among  States.  These  challenges  can  be 
overcome  only  in  a  global  environment  where  there 
exists  respect  for  one  another’s  territorial  integrity, 
non-interference  in  one  another’s  domestic  affairs, 
respect 
right  of  self-
determination. It is in this context that we again call on 
the  United  States  of  America 
its 
economic blockade against the people of the Republic 
of Cuba. 

I also welcome the support of the President of the 
Assembly  in  keeping  our  sister  island  of  Haiti  on  the 
global  stage. There  are  few  words  left  to  describe  the 
dire  misery  in  which  our  brothers  and  sisters  in  Haiti 
are 
reconstruction  and 
development  activities  has  been  the  hallmark  of  the 
aftermath  of 
that 
country in January 2010.  
We  recognize  the  tremendous  challenges  to  the 

those 
reconstruction  efforts  and  wish 
countries, 
individuals  who  have 
contributed  and  continue  to  contribute  towards  this 
process.  We  again  call  on  those  who  have  made 
pledges to make good on their commitments in order to 
accelerate the reconstruction efforts. 

The presence of the United Nations Stabilization 
Mission  in  Haiti  (MINUSTAH)  remains  critical  to  the 
reconstruction  efforts  by  providing  security  and 
support  to  the  people  of  Haiti.  We  therefore  urge  the 
Security  Council  to  extend  the  tenure  of  MINUSTAH 
to  facilitate  the  efforts  of  the  new  Administration  of 
His Excellency President Michel Martelly. 
We  all  accept  that  it  is  critical  to  collectively 

address  the  impact  of  climate  change,  to  resolve 
conflicts  throughout  the  world  and  to  enhance  peace 
and  security  for  humanity. All  these  efforts,  however, 
will be of little value to our peoples if we are not able 
to ensure that they are healthy. The United Nations has 
shown  exemplary  leadership  in  dealing  with  the  fight 
against  HIV/AIDS,  together  with  its  partners.  This 
same leadership must now be given to the fight against 
non-communicable diseases. 
The  frightening  statistics  of  2008  issued  by  the 

that 
World  Health  Organization,  which  estimated 
to 
36 million 
due 
non-communicable diseases (NCDs), suggests that this 
deaths  worldwide  were 
institutions  and 
thank 
to 
to 
to 
issued 
diseases 
include  education; 
the  world.  The  severe 
continue 
phenomenon  is  not  unique  to  any  one  region  and 
therefore cannot be downplayed. NCDs pose one of the 
greatest  challenges  to  the  health  and  development  of 
Dominica, the Caribbean Community (CARICOM) and 
impacts  of 
the  rest  of 
non-communicable 
place 
tremendous  pressures  on  our  health-care  systems, 
productivity  and  already  overburdened  and  struggling 
economies. 
It  was  for  these  reasons  that  the  CARICOM 

Heads  of  Government 
the  Port  of  Spain 
Declaration  in  2007  to  promote  healthy  lifestyles  and 
to  combat  NCDs  in  our  region.  Prior  to  and  since  the 
declaration, the Dominican Government has adopted a 
national  policy  on  NCDs.  We  have 
further 
implemented  a  number  of  measures  as  part  of  our 
multisectoral  efforts 
the 
strengthening  of  our  primary  health-care  system  with 
the  contribution  of  our  partners, 
the  Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela  and  the  Republic  of  Cuba;  the 
promotion  of  healthy  lifestyles;  greater  access  to 
treatment  and  free  health  care;  and  appropriate 
legislative  and  policy  changes.  The  Government  of 
Dominica  endorses 
the 
Caribbean  Community  in  this  regard.  We  remain 
committed to the well-being of every citizen. 

We  join  our  CARICOM  colleagues  in  thanking 
the  United  Nations  Member  States  and  Secretariat  for 
convening 
the  successful  High-level  Meeting  on 
NCDs.  We  look  forward  to  the  implementation  of  the 
Political  Declaration  (resolution  66/2)  and  call  on  the 
developed  countries  to  partner  with  us  in  our  various 
efforts to combat NCDs. 

its 
confidence  in  the  United  Nations  system  as  the 
ultimate  negotiating  and  deliberating  body 
for 
addressing  major  challenges  confronting  the  world. 
The Assembly can count on Dominica’s commitment to 
working in close collaboration with the United Nations 
agencies  and  respective  Member  States  to  strengthen 
the mission of this body. We cannot overemphasize the 
fact  that,  notwithstanding  its  many  limitations  and 
imperfections, the United  Nations system is critical to 
maintaining  world  peace  and 
security  and  an 
international  humanitarian  system. The  world  today  is 
a much better place because of the United Nations. 
Finally,  Dominica  wishes 
leadership 
taken  by 
reaffirm 
the 
to 
6 

11-51687 
The  current  world  economic  and 


The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His Excellency Mr. Donatus Keith St. Aimee, chairman 
of the delegation of Saint Lucia. 
Mr.  St.  Aimee  (Saint  Lucia):  Not  since  the 

prelude to the two world wars have there been so much 
uncertainty and anxiety within the international system. 
The  sands  are  indeed  shifting,  as  the  President  of  the 
Assembly  stressed  at  the  opening  of  this  sixty-sixth 
session (see A/66/PV.1). 

The  shifts  in  the  struggles  for  freedom  and  the 
struggles  for  rights,  some  of  which  we  in  Saint  Lucia 
take  for  granted;  the  shifts  in  the  number  of  natural 
disasters that devastate country after country; financial 
meltdowns,  increases  in  the  price  of  energy  and  food, 
and  food  shortages  have  all  converged  and  met  at  a 
moment  when  the  challenge  to  cope  weighs  upon  us 
all. However, the weight carried by a small island State 
bears down like an elephant on an ant, and although the 
ant is capable of carrying many times its own weight, it 
would never choose to carry an elephant.  

financial 
situations are not of our making but they affect us more 
than anybody else. It continues to confound us how the 
States of the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), with 
the exception of Haiti of course — small island States 
like  us,  with  limited  resources,  limited  populations, 
limited  land  mass  and  small  economies  —  can  be 
classified  as  middle-income.  With  that  classification, 
we are not eligible for special arrangements in finance 
and  trade.  There  must  be  something  wrong  with  that 
classification.  We  continue 
the 
methodology  employed  for  such  categorization  puts 
small  island  developing  States  (SIDS)  at  a  great 
disadvantage  in  terms  of  receiving  favourable  aid  and 
trade  packages, 
thereby  adversely  affecting  our 
development strategies. 

The continued attrition of trade preferences at the 
multilateral  level  challenges  our  very  small  —  and,  I 
reiterate,  very  vulnerable  —  economies  and  requires 
our  Governments 
to  employ  creative  structural 
arrangements  and  adjustments  and  fiscal  exercises  to 
keep  our  economies  afloat. The  present  application  of 
the  terms  of  trade  and  conditions  of  aid  are  very 
unfavourable to us. 
Emphasis  therefore  has  to  be  placed  on  the 

consideration  of  a  balanced  approach 
to  foreign 
investment  and  environmental  integrity,  and  investors 
must not place undue pressure on small States. Rather, 
to  argue 
that 
A/66/PV.30
that 
to 
thank 
take 
the  benefits 
this  opportunity 
there should be an understanding of our challenges and 
our  willingness  to  work  in  a  win-win  situation. 
Favourable  mechanisms  for  finance  and  technology 
transfer  would  enable  small  island  States  to  take 
advantage  of 
these  offer  as 
prerequisites  for  sustainable  development.  This  is  all 
we ask, nothing more — a chance to claim our part. 
We  stress  our  vulnerability  to  natural  disasters 

and 
island 
their  disproportionate  effect  on  small 
economies, and we seek rapid and meaningful response 
mechanisms  at  the  regional  and  international  levels  in 
order to enable our vulnerable economies to recover as 
quickly  as  possible.  Almost  every  year,  gains  made 
during  the  first  half  of  the  year  are  eroded  in  the  last 
quarter by weather-related phenomena. 

Saint  Lucia  is  still  recovering  from  Hurricane 
Tomas,  which  struck  the  island  in  October  2010.  Let 
me 
those  who 
contributed  so  generously  to  our  recovery.  Of  course, 
we will still accept any generous contributions. 

Saint Lucia, like other SIDS, recognizes the vital 
role  that  oceans  play  in  national  and  global  economic 
development. In light of this, the Government of Saint 
Lucia  remains  committed  to  ensuring  the  sustainable 
development of both coastal and marine resources.  

For  a  number  of  years  now,  Saint  Lucia  has  had 
legislation  in  place  that  speaks  to  effective  fisheries 
management with laws on open and closed seasons for 
certain  fisheries  such  as  lobsters  and,  in  order  to 
prevent  the  capture  of  juvenile  fish,  mesh-size  limits 
for nets and fish-trap fisheries. The Government is also 
targeting  large  pelagic  fish  and  other  species  not 
traditionally  harvested  by  local  fishers,  in  order  to 
reduce pressure on coastal and reef fishing. In addition, 
a  number  of  marine  reserves  and  marine  management 
areas have been established, with the most well-known 
of  these  being  the  Soufriere  Marine  Management 
Association,  which  has  been  used  to  inform  the 
establishment  of  other  marine  parks  within 
the 
Caribbean and, I may add, globally. 
The President took the Chair. 


The  Government  of  Saint  Lucia  has  adopted  an 
institutional  framework  for  integrated  coastal  zone 
management  and  is  working  towards  ensuring  its 
successful implementation through a Caribbean coastal 
zone management unit and a coastal zone management 
advisory committee. 
11-51687 

7 

A/66/PV.30 


I  dwell  on  the  issue  of  oceans  and  seas  because 
the  impacts  of  climate  change  and  sea-level  rise  are 
real  to  SIDS,  and  Saint  Lucia,  through  a  number  of 
projects  and  programmes,  is  seeking  to  build  the 
island’s resilience to these impacts through the formal 
adoption  of  a  national  building  code  and 
the 
development  of  environmental 
impact,  physical 
planning and development regulations.  

Nevertheless,  Saint  Lucia  has  recognized  the 
importance of having access to data and models at the 
national and local levels in defining and informing the 
country’s response to climate change, and in this regard 
is  taking  a  number  of  steps  to  build  the  requisite 
database  by  working  with  various  national,  regional 
and global organizations. 

The  Caribbean  Sea  is  an  important  international 
shipping  route  for  both  tourism  and  trade.  Considered 
by 
the  United  Nations  Environment  Programme 
(UNEP) to be a biodiversity hotspot, the Caribbean Sea 
is and will remain our livelihood. It keeps us afloat, but 
it  can  also  drown  us  if  we  do  not  manage  it  properly; 
that  is  what  seas  do.  It  therefore  needs  special 
attention,  and  our  Government 
is  promoting  an 
integrated management approach to the Caribbean Sea 
area  in  the  context  of  sustainable  development.  We 
therefore  support  the  work  of  the  UNEP  Caribbean 
Environment  Programme,  and  we  hope  that  funding 
will be made available to that programme to enable us 
to achieve our goals. 

For  all  these  reasons,  Saint  Lucia  would  like  to 
call on the international community to ensure that there 
is  a  strong  focus  on  oceans 
the  preparatory 
negotiations 
the  upcoming  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20). We 
cannot  forget  the  importance  of  oceans  to  SIDS  in 
providing energy and food security, and to the world as 
a  whole  in  regulating  our  climate.  Oceans  are  a 
regulatory mechanism for climate. 

As  countries  worldwide  prepare  for  the  Rio+20 
Earth  summit,  we  note  that  the  green  economy  is  a 
major  theme  for  discussion.  Renewable  energy  and 
energy efficiency are at the heart of the green economy. 
Petroleum  giants  like  British  Petroleum  and  Shell  are 
now  turning  to  investments  in  solar  and  wind  energy. 
Countries such as Germany, the Netherlands and Brazil 
have  positioned  themselves  as  strong  proponents  of 
renewable  energy.  Sustainable  energy  technologies 
for 
in 
to 
that 
the 
is 
therefore 
energy 
imperative 
taking  place  pursuant 
have  been  and  continue  to  be  a  subject  of  significant 
research and development, with very promising results.  

At  the  policy  level,  a  number  of  countries, 
including  my  own,  have  articulated  noble  and 
ambitious energy policies to steer us into the future. In 
negotiations 
the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
climate  change  mitigation  is  inextricably  linked  to 
sustainable  energy  development  and  continues 
to 
generate  much  debate  as  State  parties  seek  to  find 
lasting  solutions  to  the  problem  of  greenhouse  gas 
emissions. 
But  while  the  United  Nations  endeavours  to 

promote  equity  and  equality  among 
individual 
countries,  our  capacities  are  not  the  same.  Countries 
like  ours  yearn  to  enjoy  the  benefits  of  sustainable, 
renewable 
sources,  but  despite  having 
significant potential for renewable energy, we have not 
yet been able to meaningfully develop these resources. 
It 
international 
community  take  decisive  action  to  assist  small  island 
States, isolated as we are, in achieving energy security 
through  renewable  energy  and  energy  efficiency 
programmes.  Financing  is  a  critical  element  in  the 
development of new and renewable forms of energy. 

So  far,  SIDS  have  largely  been  overlooked,  as 
investments  are  made  in  larger  economies  where 
greater  economies  of  scale  and  profits  beckon.  Even 
with  the  existence  of  avenues  such  as  the  clean 
development  mechanism,  which  should  also  promote 
sustainable  energy  projects,  the  results  have  not  been 
very encouraging for SIDS. We hope that, not too long 
from now, that situation may change. 

We applaud the efforts and resources put into the 
conservation and preservation of the world’s forests to 
reverse  desertification.  We 
that 
considerable  attention  should  also  be  given  to  what  I 
term “small stands of trees” in our small island States. 
Although we call them forests, to those who have very 
large forests they are small stands of trees, but they are 
important to us because they are critical and crucial to 
soil  fertility  and  therefore  guarantee  production  and 
productivity  in  agriculture,  thereby  promoting  food 
security and the alleviation of poverty. 

Similarly,  Saint  Lucia  welcomes  the  adoption  of 
the  Nagoya  Protocol  on  Access  and  Benefit-sharing 
and  is  grateful  to  the  Government  of  Japan  for 
providing  an  implementation  fund  for  developing 
think,  however, 
8 

11-51687 
regional  and 


countries.  We  see  that  as  a  great  opportunity  to  help 
our  communities  to  benefit  from  their  biological 
resources  and  the  traditional  knowledge  associated 
with  them,  so  that  they  too  can  play  their  role  in  the 
conservation of biological diversity. In accordance with 
the  declaration  of  2011-2020  as  the  United  Nations 
Decade on Biodiversity, we urge all countries to work 
closely  together  to  conserve  biological  resources  for 
the present day and posterity. 

The  recently  concluded  High-level  Meeting  on 
non-communicable  Diseases  provided  an  opportunity 
to  deepen  relations  and  collaboration  with  Member 
States, 
international  agencies  and 
development partners, and to share technical expertise, 
best practices and resources as we continue to strive to 
meet  clearly  defined  goals  and  objectives.  As  a 
member  of  the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM), 
which spearheaded this initiative, Saint Lucia wishes to 
place on record its appreciation for the commitment of 
all  Member  States,  United  Nations 
agencies, 
particularly  the  World  Health  Organization,  and  other 
interested  groups 
the  scourge  of 
non-communicable  diseases.  We  nevertheless  need  to 
set 
implement  programmes  and  measure 
success if we are to make progress beyond just another 
meeting. 

Saint  Lucia,  like  all  of  the  other  CARICOM 
member  States,  is  grappling  with  security  threats 
engendered by the illicit trade in small  arms and light 
weapons  and  trafficking  in  narcotics.  The  associated 
rise in crime and violence involving the use of firearms 
has  had  a  significant  adverse  effect  on  the  socio-
economic  and  human  development  of  our  countries. 
Saint  Lucia  will  therefore  spare  no  effort  in  working 
towards concluding an arms trade treaty that is legally 
binding,  robust  and  comprehensive;  contains 
the 
transfer  of 
highest  possible 
conventional  arms, 
light 
weapons and ammunition; is effective in regulating the 
arms trade, particularly in preventing diversion; and is 
universal in subscription. 

Saint  Lucia  welcomes  the  Republic  of  South 
Sudan  as  the  most  recent  member  of  our  community 
and  wishes  it  progress,  peace  and  prosperity. We  look 
forward  to  welcoming  the  State  of  Palestine  to  this 
body 
successful  negotiations  have  been 
concluded. That is our hope. 
in  addressing 
small  arms, 
including 
standard 
targets, 
after 
for 
the 
A/66/PV.30
can 
century 
economics 
geopolitics, 
is  a 
powerhouse 

The anachronistic, half-century blockade imposed 
on  the  people  of  our  neighbour,  Cuba,  suffocates  that 
people’s right to prosperity and progress. The outdated 
mechanism’s  illogical  application  does  not  fit  twenty-
first 
or 
humanitarianism. We therefore add our voice to others 
that have spoken before us in calling for an end to this 
blockade  and  to  all  limitations  on  the  rights  of  the 
Cuban people to progress and prosperity. 

In  the  spirit  of  the  greater  good,  we  are  pleased 
that, since 2009, Taiwan has been able to participate in 
the World Health Association (WHA), in recognition of 
the  fact  that  global  health  issues  require  universal 
participation and cooperation to overcome those major 
problems that affect the peoples of every corner of the 
globe. 

Sustainable  development,  like  health,  is  one  of 
those  issues  that  require  global  participation  and 
leading  economic  and 
cooperation.  Taiwan 
technological 
and 
contribute 
substantially not only to health but to a range of global 
issues  that  face  the  world  today.  We  urge  the  United 
Nations  to  find  suitable  means  to  permit  Taiwan  to 
participate in its specialized agencies and mechanisms, 
including the International Civil Aviation Organization 
and  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate  Change  all  of  which  have  worldwide 
implications,  along  the  lines  of  the  WHA  model. 
Surely,  25  million  people  living  on  planet  Earth  can 
contribute to this body of peoples. 

In conclusion, the shifting sands are revealing an 
international system on the brink of change. We are at 
a  moment  when  a  decision  taken  here  in  this  great 
Assembly  will 
history. 
Decisions  taken  here  can  create  a  State  or  divide  a 
State;  they  can  bring  peace  or  bring  renewed  conflict. 
The  theme  for  this  general  debate  —  “The  role  of 
mediation  in  the  settlement  of  disputes  by  peaceful 
means”  was  well  chosen.  Let  it  guide  our  work  this 
year and beyond. 

Excellency  Mr.  Carsten  Staur,  chairman  of 
delegation of the Kingdom of Denmark. 
Mr. Staur (Denmark): First of all, I would like to 

align myself with the statement made by the President 
of the European Council, Mr. Herman van Rompuy, on 
behalf  of 
the  European  Union  (see  A/66/PV.15). 
Denmark  appreciates  the  adoption  earlier  this  year  of 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 
the 
reverberate 
throughout 
11-51687 

9 

A/66/PV.30 

resolution 65/276, giving the European Union (EU) the 
opportunity  to  address  the  General  Assembly  at  this 
juncture of its deliberations. The Lisbon Treaty marks a 
new  phase  of  European  cooperation  that  will  benefit 
the United Nations as well. 

The  past  year  has  once  again  demonstrated  how 
quickly  events  can  unfold  and  how  unexpected  crises 
can  break  out  in  different  parts  of  the  world.  These 
include  a  violent  conflict  in  Côte  d’Ivoire  before  a 
democratically  elected  president  could  finally  take  his 
rightful place; devastating earthquakes and tsunamis in 
Japan,  followed  by  nuclear  contamination;  the  current 
and still more severe humanitarian crisis in the Horn of 
Africa;  and  Pakistan  being  struck  by  overwhelming 
floods. 

There  have  also  been  events  of  historic 
proportions that are still unfolding in North Africa and 
the Middle East. From Tunisia to Egypt, from Libya to 
Syria, from Bahrain to Yemen and beyond, people are 
demanding  their  rights  and  their  freedom.  They  are 
standing  up  for  core  human  aspirations  and  values. 
They want to shape their own lives, economically and 
politically.  Theirs  is  a  call  for  political  participation, 
for  freedom  of  speech  and  for  the  right  of  peaceful 
assembly;  a  call  for  dignity,  for  accountability,  for 
justice and for jobs. It has sparked hope for a better life 
for 
international 
community, with the United Nations in the lead, has a 
strong 
these  historic 
aspirations. 

The  winds  of  change  currently  sweeping  across 
the Middle East and North Africa have confirmed once 
again  that  the  desire  for  freedom,  democratic  reforms 
and  respect  for  human  rights  is  universal. A  few  days 
ago, countries met under the auspices of the Secretary-
General to express their admiration for the courage of 
the  Libyan  people  in  their  struggle  to  take  control  of 
their own future. Denmark is proud to have supported 
the  legitimate  aspirations  of  the  Libyan  people  and  to 
have  contributed  to  the  protection  of  the  lives  of 
Libyan civilians.  
A  few  days  ago,  the  Assembly  welcomed  the 

National  Transitional  Council 
the 
representative  of  Libya.  Being  here  today  with  the 
NTC  in  the  seat  of  Libya  is  tangible  evidence  of  the 
progress achieved by the Libyan people in determining 
international 
their  own  destiny.  Along  with 
community,  Denmark  continues 
support 
the 
the  region.  The 
the  people  of 
support 
responsibility 
to 
(NTC) 
as 
the 
to 
aspirations of the Libyan people. It is encouraging that 
the Security Council has now authorized a new United 
Nations Mission to support Libyan national efforts. 

Developments  across  the  Middle  East  and  North 
Africa  make  it  clear  that  in  the  twenty-first  century, 
Governments  must  be  politically  accountable,  respect 
people’s  rights  and  dignity,  and  deliver  economic 
opportunities.  The  only  credible  response  to  those 
legitimate popular demands is sustainable political and 
economic reforms. 
Unfortunately,  we  sometimes  witness  countries 

fail to live up to their responsibility and obligations as 
members of the international community. As we speak, 
events  continue  to  unfold  across  the  region,  including 
in  Syria.  More  than  2,600  people  in  Syria  have  died 
during the popular uprising. We strongly condemn the 
violence and  the killings of peaceful demonstrators. It 
is high time to respect the  right of peaceful  protesters 
and their legitimate demands. To increase the pressure 
on  the  Syrian  regime,  we  have  adopted  sanctions  and 
hope others will join us. 

Some  of  the  prerequisites  for  a  sustainable 
transition to a flourishing democracy are free, fair and 
transparent  elections,  free  media,  the  protection  of 
minorities, 
an 
independent  judiciary  that  upholds  the  rule  of  law. 
Democratic change must come from within. It has to be 
home-grown and based on local leadership, ownership 
and  participation.  Surely, 
this  does  not  exclude 
international  assistance,  including  from  the  United 
Nations. 

Afghanistan has come a long way since the fall of 
the Taliban regime. We hope that Afghanistan will take 
yet  another  step  in  its  transition  process  at  the 
upcoming  Conference  in  Bonn  in  December.  Moving 
towards  2014,  the  United  Nations  system,  in  close 
cooperation with the Afghan authorities, will also have 
to  undertake  a  thorough  review  of  its  activities  in 
Afghanistan  in  order  to  continuously  maximize  its 
contribution  to  good  governance,  anti-corruption  and 
sustainable socio-economic development. 

What we see  around the world is not only a call 
for  political  reforms;  it  is  also  a  call  for  inclusive 
economic  development,  for  jobs  pure  and  simple,  and 
for improved standards of living. And not least, it is a 
call  from  and  about  youth.  Governments  will  need  to 
strengthen  economic  and  social  reforms,  ensuring  that 
functioning  government 
and 
a 
10 

11-51687 
and 
clear 
National 
ownership 


they  generate  inclusive  growth  and  shared  prosperity 
for all and not just for the few and already privileged.  

The  Millennium  Development  Goals  have 
succeeded in galvanizing action, not least in health and 
education,  and  all  countries  have  a  joint  obligation  to 
ensure that the goals we agreed in 2000 will actually be 
fulfilled  by  2015.  The  development  challenge 
is 
pressing  in  sub-Saharan Africa,  a  region  long  marked 
by  poverty  and  conflict,  but  in  recent  years  also 
characterized  in  many  countries  by  strong  economic 
growth and optimism. 

political 
commitments remain the keys to success. But for many 
of  the  poorest  countries,  development  cooperation 
continues to be an important tool and a catalyst in their 
efforts  to  ensure  that  the  poorest  people  will  also  be 
able  to  enjoy  the  full  potential  of  globalization. 
Denmark  is  doing  its  part  to  assist,  based  on  a  sound 
track record in international development cooperation. 
We  are  one  of  only  five  countries  which  at  present 
fulfil  the  internationally  agreed  development  goal  of 
delivering  at  least  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national 
product  as  development  assistance.  We  would  like  to 
welcome others to this “point-seven” club. 

We shall not succeed, however, without focusing 
in  particular  on  countries  affected  by  conflict  or 
fragility.  We  especially  look  to  the  United  Nations  to 
coordinate efforts in those countries. That is where the 
United Nations can make a real difference. 

The  advancement  of  women’s  equality  and  the 
empowerment  of  women  are  important  aspects  of  this 
process.  We  welcome  the  creation  of  UN-Women  and 
look forward to working closely with that new entity in 
the area of gender mainstreaming. No less important is 
the  issue  of  sexual  and  reproductive  health  and  the 
rights of women. 

The  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development (Rio+20), to be held in Rio de Janeiro in 
June  2012,  presents  a  unique  opportunity  to  revitalize 
the  discussion  and  understanding  of  sustainable 
development.  Rio+20  will  be  an  opportunity  to  put 
sustainable  development  at  the  top  of  the  global 
development agenda. 
Denmark  welcomes  the  focus  on  green  economy 

and 
the 
for  sustainable 
development.  Transitioning  to  a  green  economy  is 
necessary  if  the  world  is  to  cope  with  the  multiple 
institutional 
framework 
A/66/PV.30
inspire 
initiatives 
that  will 
remove  key  barriers  and 
the  democratically  expressed  will 
challenges of resource scarcity, poverty eradication and 
climate change. Economic growth will be crucial in the 
decades  ahead,  but  it  will  have  to  be  green.  Today, 
1.4 billion people are without access to modern sources 
of energy. Universal access to energy will contribute to 
lifting hundreds of millions out of poverty. 

Poland  and  Denmark,  as  part  of  the  EU  trio 
presidency  for  2011  and  2012,  are  working  jointly  to 
strengthen  the  green  growth  agenda  and  contribute  to 
the  global  objective  of  sustainable  development,  in 
accordance  with  the  trio  presidency  programme.  Next 
month,  Denmark  will  host  the  first  Global  Green 
Growth  Forum  in  Copenhagen.  The  Forum  will  lend 
to  public-private  cooperation  on 
new  momentum 
regulatory 
concrete 
interventions, 
identify 
opportunities  and  solutions  for  a  renewed  push  to 
advance green growth globally. 

Earlier this year, we witnessed the birth of a new 
State as we welcomed the 193rd Member of the United 
Nations. The Republic of South Sudan is the fulfilment 
of 
self-
determination  by  the  overwhelming  majority  of  the 
South Sudanese people. We congratulate the people of 
South Sudan on their historic achievement. 

The Palestinian cause and quest for statehood are 
high  on  the  agenda  here  in  New York,  and  rightly  so. 
The present  regional context reminds us all, including 
the two parties, that direct political peace negotiations 
must  now  be  resumed.  Within  a  specific  time  frame, 
they  must  produce  a  lasting  peace  and  an  end  to 
conflict  based  on  the  two-State  solution,  with  both 
States living side by side in peace and security. 

Let me also take this opportunity to congratulate 
the  Secretary-General  on  his  appointment  to  a  second 
five-year term. We have all been inspired by his tireless 
efforts  in  the  field  of  peace  and  security  and  human 
rights  and  by  his  strong  leadership  on  climate  change 
and  sustainable  development.  At  a  time  when  the 
United  Nations  is  ever  more  relevant,  Denmark  lends 
its  full  support  to  the  Secretary-General  and  to  his 
stewardship  of  the  Organization.  The  challenges  we 
face  call  for international  resolve  and  for joint action. 
In  the  Secretary-General’s  own  words,  “We  need 
results  that  people  can  see  and  touch,  results  that 
change  lives  and  make  a  difference”  (A/65/PV.101, 
p. 9). That is why we turn to the United Nations. 
to 
11-51687 

11 

A/66/PV.30 


That  is  the  end  of  my  prepared  statement,  but  I 
am  aware  that  I  am  the  last  speaker  in  the  general 
debate  of  the  sixty-sixth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly.  Let  me  therefore  also  take  this  opportunity 
on my own behalf — and  I am sure also on behalf of 
speakers before me — to thank the conference service 
staff  and  the  interpreters  for  their  tireless  efforts  and 
long  working  days,  which  have  facilitated  this  unique 
international debate. 

The  exchange  of  views  that  we  have  during  the 
general  debate  allows  each  and  every  one  of  us  a 
privileged  glimpse  into  the  positions,  the  values  and 
the  political  priorities  of  all  193  Member  States.  The 
debate  provides  a  strong  and  clear  indication  of  what 
issues  really  engage  Governments.  It  demonstrates 
what  parts  of  the  very  broad  United  Nations  agenda 
each and every Government is most preoccupied with, 
what  their  concerns  are  and  which  outcomes  and 
solutions they seek. From this debate, we get a unique 
and  straight  look  into  the  soul  of  global  politics.  It 
helps  us  understand  each  other,  including  when  we 
disagree,  and  it  informs  our  work  together  in  the 
Assembly in the months to come. 

So we may congratulate each other on a job well 
done,  now  at  the  end  of  the  debate,  but  it  is  only  the 
beginning.  The  true  value  of  this  debate  will  be  seen 
only  later,  and  it  will  depend  on  all  of  us  coming 
together 
to  find  common  ground  and  workable 
solutions. 

the general debate. 

Several  representatives  have  requested  to  speak 
in exercise of the right of reply. May I remind members 
that  statements  in  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are 
limited  to  10  minutes  for  the  first  intervention  and  to 
five minutes for the second intervention, and should be 
made by delegations from their seats.  
Mr. Kohona (Sri Lanka): This statement is made 

in exercise of the right of reply to the remarks made by 
the  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Canada  in  the 
general debate on 26 September (see A/66/PV.26).  

The Sri Lanka delegation is deeply anguished by 
the remarks made by the Canadian Minister for Foreign 
Affairs, Mr. John Baird, despite our extensive efforts to 
keep  the  Canadian  delegation  in  Geneva  informed  of 
the  reasons  for  and  background 
to  Sri  Lanka’s 
objections  to  the  Canadian  initiative  on  an  interactive 
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
and 
equity 
and 
to 
the  Human  Rights  Council, 
dialogue  on  the  lessons  learned  and  reconciliation 
commission  process  in  Sri  Lanka  at  the  March  2012 
session  of 
including 
domestic  mechanisms  put  in  place.  The  Sri  Lankan 
objections have been endorsed by a wide cross-section 
of members of the Council. 

In the United Nations, an Organization comprised 
of  193  countries  that  subscribe  to  a  range  of  social, 
economic  and  political  philosophies,  procedure  and 
process  are  critically  important  to  ensuring  good 
governance 
preventing 
intergovernmental  organizations  such  as  the  United 
Nations  from  being  abused  for  narrow,  domestic 
political  advantage  and  selective  application  of 
principle.  The  rule-based  framework  of  the  United 
Nations  system,  which  we  all  value,  must  be 
safeguarded  for  the  protection  of  all  against  such 
abuse. 
Mr.  Nazarian  (Armenia):  I  have  asked  for  the 

floor  to  exercise  my  delegation’s  right  of  reply  to  the 
statement  made  by  the  Azerbaijani  Foreign  Minister 
this  morning  (see A/66/PV.28).  The  references  in  that 
statement  to  Armenia  and  Nagorno  Karabakh  can  be 
attributed  only  to  the  imagination  of  the  speaker,  who 
still  presumes  that  cold  war-style  propaganda  and 
repeated  anti-Armenian  statements  at 
the  United 
Nations  can  be  an  effective  tool  for  strengthening  his 
country’s  position 
the 
co-chairs  of 
for  Security  and 
Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) Minsk Group to find a 
comprehensive  —  I  repeat,  a  comprehensive  —  and 
peaceful  settlement  to  the  Nagorno  Karabakh  issue, 
and  not  the  step-by-step  solution  referred  to  by  the 
Azerbaijani Foreign Minister.  

That statement revealed that the Foreign Minister 
of  Azerbaijan,  while  preaching 
to 
international law, has apparently taken it upon himself 
to 
rather, 
misinterpret — 
the  United  Nations  Charter  and 
statements  made  by  the  Armenian  President  and  the 
Minsk Group co-chairs on the field assessment mission 
to the territories surrounding Nagorno Karabakh.  

It  is  regrettable  that  Azerbaijan  is  once  again 
misusing  and  misinterpreting  the  field  assessment 
mission  report,  as  it  did  in  2005,  to  justify  its 
militaristic  rhetoric  and  move  the  discussions  on  the 
formats. 
Nagorno  Karabakh 
Azerbaijan’s  own 
report 
interpretation  of 
in 
the  ongoing  efforts  of 
conflict 
to  other 
the  Organization 
single-handedly 
the 
adherence 
interpret  — 
or 
12 

11-51687 
but,  more 
importantly, 
the  contrary, 
the  explanations  and  recommendations 


contradicts 
presented earlier by the Minsk Group co-chairs. 

The accusations contained in the statement by the 
Azerbaijani Foreign Minister are not only baseless and 
counterproductive 
they 
endanger  the  negotiation  process.  First  of  all,  none  of 
the  four  Security  Council  resolutions  on  Nagorno 
Karabakh  contains  a  single  word  on  the  so-called 
Armenian  aggression.  On 
it  was 
Azerbaijan  that  first  launched  a  large-scale  armed 
offensive  against  the  civilian  population  of  Nagorno 
Karabakh in response to the peaceful and constitutional 
expression  of  the  will  of  its  people  to  exercise  their 
right to self-determination.  

Secondly,  the  aforementioned  resolutions  do  not 
contain  a  word  about  the  withdrawal  of  Armenian 
military forces from Nagorno Karabakh. That is simply 
because they have never been there.  
Thirdly,  the  defence  army  of  Nagorno  Karabkh 

controls  only  8.5  per  cent  of  Azerbaijani  territory, 
which  serves  as  a  security  buffer  zone,  as  opposed  to 
the 20 per cent quoted in the statement of Azerbaijan. 
Moreover, Azerbaijan itself controls 15 per cent of the 
territory of Nagorno Karabakh.  

Finally,  the  Azerbaijani  Foreign  Minister  claims 
that  there  are  1  million  refugees  in  the  country  —  a 
figure  that  does  not  correspond  to  any  official  data 
provided 
organizations.  Such 
exaggerations  and  distortions  of  facts  and  figures 
undermine  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  and  other 
international  forums,  artificially  delaying  constructive 
steps  to  meet  the  needs  and  alleviate  the  suffering  of 
the people of Nagorno Karabakh. Even if Azerbaijan is 
misleading 
its  own  people’s  public  opinion  by 
distorting  facts,  it  cannot  do  so  to  the  international 
community. 

Armenia  has  always  supported  the  settlement  of 
the conflict between Azerbaijan and Nagorno Karabakh 
through  the  exclusive  use  of  peaceful  means,  and  has 
repeatedly proven that in practice. Armenia has given a 
clear answer to the latest version of the basic principles 
proposed  by  the  three  co-Chairs  of  the  OSCE  Minsk 
Group  as  a  basis  for  negotiation  of  the  settlement.  If 
Azerbaijan  is  willing  to  agree  unequivocally  to  it,  it 
will  be  possible  to  see  progress  in  the  settlement 
process. 
international 
by 
A/66/PV.30
has  been 
responsibility 
in  Azerbaijan 
that  bears  primary 
Mr.  Musayev  (Azerbaijan):  I  would  like  to 

exercise the right of reply to the remarks made by the 
representative of Armenia. Those remarks represent yet 
another  piece  of  evidence  that  testifies  to  Armenia’s 
apparent disregard of its obligations under the Charter 
of  the  United  Nations  and  international  law,  and  also 
demonstrate  how  far  that  Member  State  is  from  being 
engaged  in  a  constructive  search  for  peace  in  the 
region.  
It is curious that the delegation of Armenia — the 

country 
for 
unleashing  the  war  of  aggression  against  Azerbaijan, 
carrying  out  ethnic  cleansing  on  a  massive  scale, 
committing  other  heinous  crimes  during  the  conflict, 
and  advocating  an  undisguised  racist  ideology  — 
should attempt to criticize my country and lecture it on 
issues  pertaining  to  such  notions  as  peace,  human 
rights, negotiations and conflict resolution. 

The  delegation  of  Armenia  must  be  well  aware 
that what it considers to be the exercise of the right to 
self-determination  by  the  Armenian  ethnic  minority 
living 
unequivocally 
characterized by the Security Council and the General 
Assembly, 
authoritative 
international  organizations,  as  the  illegal  use  of  force 
against  the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of 
Azerbaijan,  and  other  egregious  violations  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  international  law. 
The illegality of the separatist entity and its structures 
established  by  Armenia  on  the  occupied  territory  of 
Azerbaijan  has  been  repeatedly  pointed  out  at  the 
international level in the most unambiguous manner. 

The  Government  of  Armenia,  which  has  purged 
both the territory of its own country and the occupied 
areas  of  Azerbaijan  of  non-Armenians,  and  has  thus 
succeeded  in  creating  a  mono-ethnic  culture  there, 
should  be  the  last  to  advocate  the  unilateral  secession 
of ethnic minority groups from sovereign States.  

The  remarks  of  the  delegation  of  Armenia  have 
not  deviated 
speculations  and 
misinterpretations  as  to  the  true  value  and  content  of 
the  conflict  settlement  process  and  mediation  efforts. 
Intensified  attacks over the past month on Azerbaijani 
civilians and civilian objects across the front line, and 
an unprecedented increase in hostile statements by the 
Armenian leadership — full of historical falsifications 
and  factual  distortions  concerning  the  root  causes  of 
the  war  and  the  conflict  settlement  process  —  have 
as  by  other 
as  well 
from 
the  usual 
11-51687 

13 

A/66/PV.30 

confirmed  the  validity  of  our  serious  concerns  about 
the  destabilizing  effect  of  Armenia’s  policy,  and 
represent a direct threat to peace, security and stability 
in the region. 

We  are  confident  that  Armenia’s  destructive 
political agenda is fated never to be realized. Armenia 
will  be  obliged  to  cease  its  provocative  policy,  to 
ensure  that  its  occupation  of  Azerbaijani  territory  is 
territorial 
ended, 
claims  on 
its 
neighbouring  nations,  and 
to  establish  civilized 
relations  with  all  countries  of  the  region.  Azerbaijan 
sincerely believes that there is no alternative to peace, 
stability and mutually beneficial regional cooperation. 
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 

exercise of the right of reply. 

general debate. 
I will now offer some concluding remarks on the 
renounce 
to 


constructive 
sincere 
this 
in 
gratitude 
open, 
Statement by the President 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Now  that  we 

have come to the end of the general debate of the sixty-
sixth  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  permit  me  to 
express  my 
for  members’ 
participation 
and 
comprehensive dialogue among world leaders. 

Before  making  my  statement,  I  cannot  fail  to 
express, on behalf of the General Assembly and on my 
own behalf, our deep sadness and shock at the death of 
Ms. Wangari Maathai of Kenya, the Nobel Peace Prize 
laureate.  I  offer  her  family  and  the  people  and 
Government of Kenya our sincere condolences. 

This  has  unquestionably  been  a  historic  and 
memorable  debate.  Many  Member  States  have 
acknowledged  the  hope  we  have  felt  as  we  have 
watched  so  many  transformations  taking  place  around 
the world whereby people have actively questioned and 
challenged  their  governing  regimes.  World  leaders 
have praised the courage of those who have fought for 
freedom, dignity and democracy, and made it clear that 
Governments  cannot  oppress  their  peoples  without 
being held accountable. 
We  have  also  welcomed  new  leaders  who  have 

come to this Hall to convey their countries’ hopes and 
needs.  Those  leaders  have  called  on  the  international 
community  to  help  them  fulfil  the  aspirations  of  their 
peoples 
law,  achieve 
transparency  and  economic  prosperity,  uphold  justice 
to  establish 
rule  of 
the 
the 
the 
in  support  of 
to  stand  united 
if  I  did  not  encourage 
to  mobilize  our  efforts 
and  respect  human  rights.  In  this  context,  I  should  be 
international 
remiss 
community 
the 
transformational process of the Libyan-led transition. 

We  have  also  witnessed  the  renewed  hope  and 
determination  of  the  Palestinian  people.  In  a  truly 
historic  moment, 
President  Mahmoud  Abbas 
announced that he had submitted an application to the 
Secretary-General  for  Palestine’s  admission  to  the 
United  Nations.  The  Security  Council 
is  now 
considering  the  issue,  and  the  General Assembly  will 
follow suit if that is what Member States decide.  

In general, I have been impressed by the fact that 
a majority of international leaders have called for a just 
and comprehensive peace settlement in the Middle East 
aimed  at  establishing 
two  viable,  sovereign  and 
independent States, Israel and Palestine, living side by 
side in peace and security. Building on that consensus 
among  nations,  it  is  my  hope  that  at  this  session  we 
will  be  able 
for  a 
comprehensive  settlement  of  the Arab-Israeli  conflict, 
in  accordance  with 
terms  of  reference  and 
international law. 

As  we  gather  now  to  consider  such  complex 
issues, it has become clear that the role of mediation is 
enjoying unprecedented importance. With regard to the 
theme  of  this  year’s  general  debate  “The  role  of 
mediation 
the  settlement  of  disputes”,  many 
delegations have welcomed the theme and underscored 
the increasing importance of the role of mediation and 
prevention  of  disputes,  in  accordance  with  the  United 
Nations  Charter.  Member  States  have  shared  various 
examples  of  mediation  efforts  in  their  regions.  They 
have  acknowledged  that  mediation  is  a  cost-effective 
tool  and  that  regional  and  subregional  organizations 
play a vital role in the peaceful settlement of disputes.  
Member States have also noted that the effective 

participation  of  women 
is 
absolutely vital, and that the increased involvement of 
civil society is also important and needed. In addition, 
widespread  support  has  been  expressed  for 
the 
Secretary-General’s  efforts  in  conflict  prevention,  and 
calls  made  for  United  Nations  capabilities  in  that 
respect  to  be  enhanced.  As  President  of  the  General 
Assembly, I will give high priority to mediation in the 
coming year.  
I have also welcomed the substantive discussions 

on  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  by  the  fact 
in  mediation  efforts 
in 
14 

11-51687 


that many Member States have raised issues related to 
the  other  priority  areas  that  I  have  identified  for  this 
year. (see A/66/PV.1) 

On  United  Nations  reform  and  revitalization,  we 
have  heard  many  calls  for  continuing  comprehensive 
reform of the United Nations so that it truly embodies 
the  spirit  of  universality  and  can  more  effectively 
address  the  ever-changing  global  landscape.  With  its 
unique  legitimacy  and  unparalleled  convening  power, 
the  General  Assembly  should  proactively  address 
major and emerging global issues in a forward-looking 
manner. 

There is broad agreement  on the urgent need for 
early  and  consensual  reform  and  expansion  of  the 
Security  Council.  Such  reform  is  inevitable  if  the 
Council  is  to  reflect  our  current  realities  and  be  more 
representative, inclusive, democratic and transparent. I 
would like to strongly urge Member States to revitalize 
that  reform  process,  to  reaffirm  their  commitment  to 
the reform of the Security Council, and to generate the 
political  will  necessary  to  proceed  in  that  effort  in  a 
timely manner. I believe if any process is to succeed, it 
must  be  based  on  the  will  and  resolve  of  Member 
States.  

With  regard  to  the  topic  of  improving  disaster 
prevention  and  response,  Member  States  have  also 
emphasized 
international 
cooperation in disaster prevention and recovery. Many 
Member  States  have  expressed  their  serious  concern 
about  the  humanitarian  crises  plaguing  the  Horn  of 
Africa. They have identified these as a major threat to 
stability  and  prosperity  in  the  region. At  this  session, 
Member  States  should  draft  a  resolution  aimed  at 
improving  disaster  prevention  and  response.  This  is  a 
significant  opportunity  for  the  membership  to  clearly 
demonstrate  its  commitment  to  addressing  the  grave 
humanitarian  situation  in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  As 
President  of 
the  General  Assembly,  I  am  fully 
committed  to  focusing  the  attention  of  the  General 
Assembly on that humanitarian crisis.  

On the two issues of sustainable development and 
global  prosperity,  Member  States  have  acknowledged 
the  need 
reflect 
creatively,  in  particular  since  the  world’s  population 
will reach 7 billion inhabitants next month. A common 
topic that has emerged during the debate is the pressing 
need  to  rethink  the  global  approach  to  sustainable 
to  work  cooperatively  and 
importance 
the 
of 
to 
A/66/PV.30
on 
has 
been 
crisis, 
Conference 
development,  which  should  include  the  consideration 
of issues such as energy, water and food security.  

We  have  also  heard  repeated  calls  for  redoubled 
efforts  and  enhanced  resolve  to  achieve  progress  in 
attaining  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  The 
United  Nations 
Sustainable 
Development  will  provide  a  significant  opportunity  to 
consider  new  strategies  for  sustainable  development 
and the eradication of poverty.  
Many  Member  States  have  also  called  on  the 

to  address  climate  change  by 
United  Nations 
supporting  the  different  countries  concerned  and  their 
efforts  to  adapt  to  its  effects,  and  for  developed 
countries  to  address  their  emission  reduction  targets. 
The seventeenth session of the Conference of Parties to 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change,  to  be  held  in  Durban  this  year,  will  also 
provide  an  opportunity  to  make  progress  in  that 
respect.  
With regard  to the ongoing global economic and 

there 
general 
financial 
acknowledgement  of 
the  central  role  and  broad 
legitimacy of the United Nations in providing solutions 
to  the  global  challenges  of  governance.  During  the 
debate,  many  Heads  of  State  and  Government  have 
called on the United Nations to take the leading role in 
reforming the world economic and financial order.  

Various  other  important  issues  have  also  been 
raised  during  the  general  debate.  Member  States  have 
noted  the  importance  of  providing  adequate  financial 
and human resources to the United Nations, as well as 
the  need  for  shared  financial  responsibility  and  fiscal 
discipline.  There  has  also  been  broad  support  for  the 
Secretary-General’s  measures 
for  United  Nations 
reform. 

that 
international  peace  and  security  can  be  best  served 
through  the  establishment  of  a  nuclear-weapon-free 
world.  Maintaining  the  highest  nuclear  safety  and 
security  standards  has  also  been  underscored.  I 
encourage  Member  States  to  step  up  their  efforts  to 
revitalize  the  United  Nations  disarmament  machinery 
and  to  promote  negotiations  on  new  disarmament 
instruments within the Conference on Disarmament.  

crucial  step,  namely, 
commitments, 
We  should  now  turn  our  attention  to  the  next 
implementation  of  our 
those  of 
the  General 
the 
in  particular 
delegations 
reaffirmed 
Many 
have 
11-51687 

15 

A/66/PV.30 

Assembly.  That  is  the  most  important  element  of  our 
work  since  it  is  the  actual  translation  of  words  into 
deeds.  I  will  focus,  in  particular,  on  the  full  and 
effective  implementation  of  the  relevant  programmes 
of  action  adopted  by  the  General  Assembly  in  the 
interests of threatened and disadvantaged States.  

On the context of our shared responsibilities, we 
should  be  eager  to  achieve  consensus  and  to  adopt 
sustainable solutions to major world challenges. I will 
be steadfast in my commitment to working closely with 
each and every member so that we may strengthen our 
efforts towards a united global partnership. In heeding 
the  calls  made  by  Member  States  during  the  general 
debate,  I  will  also  strive  at  this  session  to  focus 
attention on South-South and triangular cooperation, as 
well as on dialogue among civilizations and advancing 
the culture of peace. 

Permit  me  to  end  on  a  more  personal  note. As  I 
said  at  the  opening  of  this  session,  I  consider  the 
members  of  the  Assembly  to  be  my  family  and  my 
friends. I will therefore rely on their full cooperation in 
the  year  ahead.  I  truly  believe  that  the  spirit  of 
friendship and open dialogue that has characterized our 
relationship  will  play  a  vital  role  in  implementing  the 
agenda before us during the year. 

together, we will complete our task. 
(spoke in English) 

May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly  to  conclude  its  consideration  of  agenda 
item 8? 


It was so decided.  
  The meeting rose at 7.50 p.m. 
Coming  together  is  only  the  start.  Working 
16 

11-51687 
