
A/66/PV.11
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

11th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 21 September 2011, 9 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 





  The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m.  


Agenda item 110 
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of the 
Organization (A/66/1) 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  In  accordance 

with the decision taken at its 2nd plenary meeting, held 
on 16 September 2011, the General Assembly will hear 
a  presentation  by  the  Secretary-General  of  his  annual 
report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization,  under  agenda 
item 110. I give the floor to the Secretary-General. 
The Secretary-General: Late next month a child 

will  be  born  —  the  7  billionth  citizen  of  our  planet 
Earth.  Let  us  assume  this  child  is  a  girl.  Most  likely, 
she will be poor. She may, or may not, grow up to be 
healthy and strong. If she is especially lucky, she will 
be  educated  and  go  out  into  the  world,  full  of  hopes 
and dreams. Beyond that, we know only one thing with 
certainty:  she  will  enter  a  world  of  vast  and 
unpredictable  change  —  environmental,  economic, 
geopolitical, technological and demographic. 
The  world’s  population  has  tripled  since  the 

United  Nations  was  created.  And  our  numbers  keep 
growing, as do the pressures on land, energy, food and 
water.  The  global  economic  crisis  continues  to  shake 
businesses,  Governments  and  families  around  the 
world.  Joblessness  is  rising.  Social  inequalities  grow 
wider. Too many people live in fear.  

The United Nations exists to serve those in whose 
name  it  was  conceived:  “We  the  peoples”.  During  the 
past  five years as  United  Nations Secretary-General,  I 
have  travelled  the  world  to  meet  people  where  they 
live,  to  hear  their  hopes  and  fears.  Two  weeks  ago  I 
visited Kiribati and the Solomon Islands. Villagers told 
me  of  their  fear  of  climate  change.  Rising  seas  are 
washing into their homes. One day, they may be swept 
away entirely. 

A  young  girl  named  Tamauri  mustered  her 
courage  to  speak.  “What  will  become  of  us?”  she 
asked.  “What  can  the  United  Nations  do  for  us?” 
Today,  I  pose  her  question  to  all  of  you  —  heads  of 
State  and  Government  and  leaders  of  the  world. What 
can we do? How can we help these people find greater 
peace, prosperity and justice in a world of crises? 

As I reflect on my time in office during the past 
five  years,  I  am  full  of  passionate  conviction  — 
unshakable  faith  in  the  enduring  importance  of  this 
noble United Nations. Today, I would like to share with 
the Assembly  my  perspective  on  the  way  ahead. As  I 
see  it,  we  have  five  imperatives,  five  generational 
opportunities  to  shape  the  world  of  tomorrow  by  the 
decisions we make today.  

The  first  and  greatest  of  these  is  sustainable 
development  —  the  imperative  of  the  twenty-first 
century.  Saving  our  planet,  lifting  people  out  of 
poverty  and  advancing  economic  growth  —  those  are 
one  and  the  same  fight.  We  must  connect  the  dots 
between  climate  change,  water  scarcity,  energy 
shortages,  global  health,  the  food  crisis  and  women’s 
empowerment.  Solutions  to  one  problem  must  be 
solutions for all. Rio+20 must succeed. We must make 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-50692 (E) 
*1150692* 

A/66/PV.11 

progress on climate change. We cannot burn our way to 
the future. We cannot pretend the danger does not exist 
or dismiss it because it affects someone else. 

Today,  I  call  on  those  gathered  here  to  reach  a 
binding  climate  change  agreement,  one  with  more 
ambitious  national  and  global  emissions  targets.  And 
we  need  action  on  the  ground,  now,  on  cutting 
emissions and on adaptation. 
(spoke in French) 

Energy is key — key to our planet and our way of 
life.  That  is  why  we  have  launched  a  new  pioneering 
initiative entitled “Sustainable energy for all”. 

We must invest in human potential, specifically in 
education  and  in  the  health  of  women  and  children. 
Development  cannot  be  called  sustainable  unless  it  is 
equitable and benefits all. 

We  must  step  up  our  efforts  to  achieve  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  go  even 
further. Today, I call upon the Assembly to take a larger 
view,  to  think  beyond  the  horizon  of  2015.  Let  us 
decide on a new generation of sustainable development 
goals that will succeed the MDGs, and let us agree on 
ways to make them real. 
(spoke in English) 

namely, prevention. 

the  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
budget will total $8 billion. Consider the savings if we 
act  before  conflicts  erupt,  by  deploying  political 
mediation  missions,  for  example,  rather  than  troops. 
We  know  how  to  do  this.  Our  record  proves  it  —  in 
Guinea, Kenya, Kyrgyzstan. 

To  prevent  violations  of  human  rights,  we  must 
work for the rule of law and stand against impunity. We 
have carved out new dimensions for the responsibility 
to  protect,  and  we  will  continue.  To  prevent  runaway 
damage from natural disasters, we must work for better 
disaster-risk reduction and preparedness.  

Let  us  remember:  development  is  ultimately  the 
best  prevention. Today,  I  ask  for  your  support.  Let  us 
commit the resources required. Let us raise prevention 
from  an  abstract  concept  to  a  core  operating  principle 
across the spectrum of our work. 
We  have  a  second  great  opportunity  before  us, 
This  year, 


There  is  a  third  imperative:  building  a  safer  and 
more  secure  world  —  our  core  responsibility  at  the 
United Nations. This year we were sorely tested.  

In  Côte  d’Ivoire,  we  stood  firm  for  democracy 
and  human  rights.  Working  closely  with  our  regional 
partners, we made a difference in the lives of millions 
of  people.  In Afghanistan  and  Iraq,  we  will  carry  out 
our  missions  with  determination  and  commitment  to 
the people of these proud nations. 

In  Darfur,  we  continue  to  save  lives  and  help 
keep  peace  under  difficult  conditions.  Our  success 
demands  the  cooperation  and  full  support  of  the 
international community, the parties on the ground and 
the Sudanese Government. In the Sudan, the parties to 
the  Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement  must  work 
together  to  prevent  conflict  and  settle  outstanding 
issues. 

In the Middle East, we must break the stalemate. 
We have long agreed that Palestinians deserve a State. 
Israel needs security. Both want peace. We pledge our 
unrelenting efforts to help achieve that peace through a 
negotiated settlement. 

We must be innovative in maximizing the unique 
force for good that is United Nations peacekeeping. We 
are  pioneering  new  approaches. We  have  strengthened 
our  field  support  and  reconfigured  the  architecture  of 
peacekeeping operations. In places like the Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  Sierra  Leone,  we  are 
building  peace  by  advancing  civil  society,  promoting 
the  rule  of  law  and  creating  institutions  of  honest  and 
effective governance. 

Today we are capable of more rapid and effective 
response than ever before, and we will so continue. We 
remain  the  world’s  first  emergency  responders  —  in 
Pakistan,  Haiti  and  elsewhere.  It  is  essential  that  we 
continue to build on our most innovative and effective 
tool  for  humanitarian  relief  —  the  Central  Emergency 
Response Fund, also known as CERF. 

Famine  in  Somalia  continues  to  spread.  I  appeal 
to the Assembly: help save the children of the Horn of 
Africa. 
As  we  learned  in  Fukushima  and  elsewhere, 

nuclear  accidents  do  not  respect  national  borders.  We 
need global action. We need strong international safety 
standards to prevent future disasters. 
2 

11-50692 
The  fourth  imperative  is  to  support  nations  in 



Let  us  keep  pushing  on  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation. Let us fulfil the dream: a world free 
of nuclear weapons. 
(spoke in French) 

transition. 

The  extraordinary  events  that  have  taken  place 
this  year  in  North  Africa  and  the  Middle  East  have 
been a source of inspiration. Let us make sure that the 
Arab Spring becomes a song of hope for all. In Libya, 
we  are  deploying  a  new  United  Nations  support 
mission  to  assist  the  Libyan  authorities  in  forming  a 
new  Government  and  a  new  legal  order,  which  is  the 
desire  of  the  Libyan  people.  The  current  situation  in 
Syria is of particular concern. For six months now, we 
have  been  seeing  an  escalation  of  violence  and 
repression.  The  Government  has  repeatedly  promised 
to  adopt  reforms  and  listen  to  the  people.  It  has  done 
nothing  of  the  sort.  Now  is  the  time  for  action.  The 
violence must end.  

Others  are  also  counting  on  us.  A  country 
emerging from war puts its autocratic regime behind it, 
brings its people out of poverty and turns towards new 
prosperity.  The  United  Nations  must  assist  such  a 
country as it embarks upon the right path. Most likely 
it will have to help that country set up legal machinery 
and public services, organize elections, or write a new 
constitution.  

Today,  our  task  is  to  consolidate  such  progress 
and  put  in  practice  what  we  have  learned  from  our 
experiences.  The  growing  difficulty  is  most  clearly 
seen in what we are doing to assist South Sudan set up 
functioning State structures after decades of conflict. 
(spoke in English) 

Fifth  and  finally,  we  can  dramatically  advance 
our  efforts  in  every  sphere  with,  and  working  for, 
women and young people.  

Women  hold  up  more  than  half  the  sky  and 
represent  much  of  the  world’s  unrealized  potential. 
They  are  the  educators.  They  raise  the  children,  and 
they hold families together. Increasingly, women drive 
economies. They are natural leaders. We need their full 
engagement  —  in  Government,  business  and  civil 
society.  And  this  year,  for  the  first  time,  we  have 
UN-Women,  our  own  unique  and  powerful  engine  for 
dynamic change. 
A/66/PV.11
Today, 
I  ask 
the  Governments 

I am especially pleased to see so many women at 
this  year’s  session  of  the  Assembly.  I  welcome  in 
particular President Dilma Rousseff of Brazil, the first 
woman  in  United  Nations  history  to  open  the  general 
debate.  We  can  be  proud  of  the  number  of  women 
leaders  we  have  at  the  United  Nations,  and  we  will 
continue  our  policy  of  promoting  women  at  all  levels 
of the Organization. 

We  will  focus  on  the  new  generation.  Young 
people  are  more  than  our  future;  they  are  also  our 
present,  both  in  numbers  and  in  how  they  drive 
political and social change. We must find new ways to 
create  decent  jobs  and  opportunities  for  them  around 
the world. 

These  are  extraordinary  challenges,  and  we 
cannot  respond  in  ordinary  ways.  We  need  one  thing 
above all else: solidarity. That begins with the obvious: 
without resources, we cannot deliver.  
that  have 

traditionally  borne  the  lion’s  share  of  the  costs  not  to 
flag in their generosity. Budgets are tight. Yet we also 
know  that  investing  through  the  United  Nations  is 
smart  policy.  Sharing  burdens  makes  the  load  lighter. 
Scaling back is no answer. To the rising Powers among 
you,  whose  dynamism  increasingly  drives  the  global 
economy,  I  say  that  with  power  comes  responsibility. 
For all, I ask that you give what you can — expertise, 
peacekeepers,  helicopters.  Never  underestimate  the 
power of your leadership. Again and again, I have seen 
how  the  smallest  nations  make  some  of  the  largest 
contributions to our work. 

Governments cannot do the job alone. To deliver 
for those in need, we must broaden our base and extend 
our  reach.  We  must  harness 
the  full  power  of 
partnership  across  the  Organization.  Our  successes  in 
the  fight  against  malaria  show  the  way.  We  see  the 
transformative  power  of  partnership  in  our  Every 
Woman,  Every  Child 
funding 
commitments  of  more  than  $40  billion  —  four  times 
the  annual  United  Nations  budget.  When  we  combine 
the  unparalleled  convening  authority  and  technical 
resources  of  the  United  Nations  with  the  various 
strengths  of  Governments,  the  private  sector  and  civil 
society, we are a formidable force for good. 
(spoke in French) 

Finally,  we  must  change  with  the  times.  At  this 
time of budgetary austerity, we must do more with less. 
initiative,  with 
11-50692 

3 

and 
remain 
transparency 
A/66/PV.11 

We  must  better  invest  taxpayers’  money,  eliminate 
waste  and  avoid  duplication  by  delivering  as  one. 
Accountability 
our 
watchwords.  

We are accountable to the Member States, yet we 
cannot become more efficient without their strong and 
consistent  support.  We  must  streamline  the  budget 
process  and  help  the  United  Nations  to  undertake  the 
necessary  measures  so  that  no  nation  must  act  on  its 
own.  We  must  maintain  our  efforts  to  build  a  more 
modern and mobile workforce — a United Nations that 
is  faster  and  more  flexible;  a  United  Nations  that 
innovates  and  draws  on  the  power  of  social  networks 
and  new  technologies;  a  United  Nations  that  helps 
solve real problems in real time. 

Lastly,  let  us  do  everything  we  can  to  protect 
United  Nations  staff. We  have  lost  so  many  lives;  the 
United Nations has become an easy target. Today let us 
remember  with  gratitude  those  who  serve  with  such 
dedication in so many dangerous places. 
(spoke in English) 

Here  in  this  great  Hall,  the  shrinking  islands  in 
the  Pacific  may  seem  far  away. Yet  I  hear  that  young 
girl’s plea as clearly as if she were next to me. Perhaps 
that  is  because,  60  years  ago,  I  was  that  child.  The 
United  Nations  is  the  answer  now,  as  it  was  then. 
Standing  here  today,  I  hear  many  millions  of  other 
young  boys  and  girls  asking  for  our  help,  looking  for 
hope. “We the peoples”, 7 billion, now look to us, the 
world’s  leaders.  They  need  solutions.  They  demand 
leadership.  They  want  us 
to  act  with 
compassion, courage and conviction; to act in concert, 
nations united at the United Nations. 

Let  us  carry  on  this  journey  together.  I  thank 
those gathered here very much for their leadership and 
commitment. 

Secretary-General for his presentation. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  thank  the 
to  act, 



Agenda item 8 
General debate 
The President (spoke in Arabic): It is indeed an 

honour  for  me  to  welcome  participants  to  the  general 
debate  of  the  sixty-sixth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly. I would like to express my sincere gratitude 
for  members’  active  participation  in  the  High-level 
for 
the  attainment  of  a 
Meetings  over  the  past  two  days.  I  would  also  like  to 
take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  Secretary-General, 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  outstanding 
leadership  of  the  United  Nations  and  for  his  initiative 
in organizing a number of important high-level events 
this  week.  I  wish  everyone  great  success  in  these 
important discussions. 

Let there be no doubt that 2011 is a year of new 
horizons. A look around the Hall today shows just that: 
new faces and new friends. To everyone I say welcome 
to the global family. New friends and old, we will work 
together to ensure that the shifts taking place across the 
globe  result  in  stable  and  prosperous  democracies, 
continued growth and development, and the protection 
and promotion of human rights in the interest of all the 
citizens of the world. 

We  also  welcome  the  newest  Member  State, 
South  Sudan,  to  the  United  Nations.  In  doing  so,  it 
must  be  acknowledged  that  the  issue  of  Palestine  will 
be  particularly  crucial  and  will  receive  great  attention 
this  session.  I  look  forward  to  working  with  all 
Member  States 
just, 
comprehensive  and  negotiated  peace  settlement  in  the 
Middle East, based on a two-State solution. I am fully 
committed  to  proceeding  in  a  transparent,  impartial 
manner  and  in  keeping  with  the  expressed  will  of  the 
collective membership of the United Nations. Fairness 
and  justice  will  be  key  pillars  of  any  sustainable 
political endeavour. 

Addressing  the  critical  issues  on  the  agenda  of 
the Assembly’s sixty-sixth session will require political 
will, open dialogue, close collaboration and consensus-
building.  For  that  reason,  I  am  deeply  and  fully 
committed to working with each Member State, as well 
as  with  all  major  stakeholders,  to  build  bridges  for  a 
united global partnership.  

In  carrying  out  our  joint  responsibilities,  I  place 
great value in South-South and triangular cooperation, 
as  well  as  on  dialogue  among  civilizations  and 
advancing  the  culture  of  peace.  I  intend  to  accord  the 
most vulnerable countries the support they so need and 
deserve. Let us therefore always bear in mind the need 
for  just  and  fair  solutions  that  are  based  on  the 
purposes and principles of the United Nations Charter. 

In meeting the expectations of the world, it is our 
responsibility to remain thoughtful and focused on our 
objectives. Therefore,  I  have  identified  four  key  areas 
to  help  frame  our  work  during  this  session:  the 
4 

11-50692 
the 
tragic 
With  regard 


peaceful settlement of disputes, United Nations reform 
and  revitalization,  improving  disaster  prevention  and 
response,  and  sustainable  development  and  global 
prosperity.  

to  United  Nations  reform  and 
revitalization, we must continue our efforts throughout 
this  session  to  revitalize  the  General  Assembly  to 
ensure  its  rightful  place  as  the  centre  of  global 
decision-making.  We  must  make  it  more  efficient  and 
able  to  respond  quickly  to  emerging  situations  of 
global concern. I am fully committed to strengthening 
previous  efforts  and  to  making  further  progress  on 
reforming the Security Council, based on the collective 
will of the Member States. 

On improving disaster prevention and response, I 
am  deeply  conscious  of 
food  and 
humanitarian crisis gripping Somalia. At this session I 
will  be  fully  committed  to  focusing  the  Assembly’s 
attention  on  that  humanitarian  crisis.  I  will  count  on 
the support and attention of Member States in order to 
improve our response to humanitarian disasters. And I 
will  work  closely  with  Member  States  to  further 
improve  prevention  capacity  and  reduce  risk  and 
increase invulnerability with respect to natural hazards. 

In working towards sustainable development and 
global  prosperity  as  the  world  population  approaches 
7 billion next month, our efforts will become ever more 
pressing.  This  year,  a  number  of  major  global 
conferences  related  to  sustainable  development  will 
take  place.  They  will  focus  on  issues  such  as  climate 
change  and  desertification,  poverty  eradication,  and 
achieving  the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  I  urge 
the leaders of the world to find consensus and to take 
strong and urgent action to ensure fruitful outcomes to 
these  important  meetings.  I  remain  committed  to 
supporting those discussions in any way that I can.  

The  theme  before  us  today  is  “The  role  of 
mediation  in  the  settlement  of  disputes”.  The  United 
Nations  role  in  promoting  international  peace  and 
security  is  foremost  among  its  founding  principles. 
From  the  very  beginning,  mediation  has  been  a  key 
tool  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  with  a 
specific reference to it in the United Nations Charter. 

In today’s world, the need to find peaceful means 
to resolve disputes has assumed greater  relevancy and 
become  more  urgent  than  ever,  and  that  is  why  I 
proposed  this  theme  for  the  general  debate.  I  look 
the  valuable  views  and 
forward 
to  hearing  of 
A/66/PV.11
in 
the 
implementation  of 
experiences  of  the  Member  States.  Such  views  and 
experiences  will  be  useful  in  the  deliberations  of  the 
General Assembly in the coming year. 

I  am  also  pleased  that  this  issue  is  being  dealt 
with  by  the  Security  Council,  which  tomorrow  will 
hold  a  special  meeting  on  preventive  diplomacy.  It  is 
clear  that  the  United  Nations  provides  legitimacy  and 
operational  breadth  and  dimensions 
to  mediation 
efforts.  

I am pleased to note that in the preceding session, 
the  Assembly  adopted  its  first-ever  resolution  on 
mediation (resolution 65/283). With that resolution the 
Assembly  took  an  important  step  in  affirming  support 
for strengthening mediation as a vital tool for conflict 
prevention  and 
resolution.  Member  States  also 
committed to strengthening the visibility of that matter. 
It is of the utmost importance that Member States 

engage  actively 
that 
resolution  and  in  future  activities  of  the  General 
Assembly in the field of mediation. I also welcome and 
appreciate  the  recent  developments  in  that  context 
within the United Nations system. 

It  is  my  intention  to  accord  high  priority  to 
mediation  throughout  this  session,  to  galvanize  that 
theme  and  operationalize  it  for  a  genuine  multilateral 
capacity, with the support of Member States. I will do 
so in a transparent and interactive manner, by ensuring 
close coordination with the Secretary-General, Member 
States and other relevant actors. 

It  is  significant  that  the  world’s  leaders  are 
gathered here today on the International Day of Peace, 
which  is  dedicated  to  achieving  the  ideals  of  peace 
within and among all nations and peoples. Let us join 
together, in the spirit of cooperation and partnership, to 
ensure  peace,  prosperity  and  dignity  for  all  of 
humankind.  I  look  forward  to  very  successful  debate 
and deliberations. 

Before giving the floor to the first speaker for this 
morning,  I  would  like  to  remind  Member  States  that 
the  list  of  speakers  for  the  general  debate  has  been 
established  on  the  agreed  basis  that  statements  should 
be  no  longer  than  15  minutes,  so  as  to  enable  all 
speakers to be heard at any given meeting. Within this 
time  frame,  I  would  like  to  appeal  to  speakers  to 
deliver  their  statements  at  a  normal  speed  so  that 
interpretation  into  the  six  official  United  Nations 
languages may be properly provided. 
11-50692 

5 

that 
A/66/PV.11 


I  would  also  like  to  draw  members’  attention  to 
the decision taken by the General Assembly at previous 
sessions,  namely, 
the  practice  of  expressing 
congratulations inside the Hall after a speech has been 
delivered  is  strongly  discouraged.  In  that  connection, 
after delivering their statements, speakers are invited to 
exit  the  Hall  through  Room  GA-200,  located  behind 
the podium, before returning to their seats. 

May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to 
proceed  in  the  manner  I  have  described,  during  the 
general debate of the sixty-sixth session? 
It was so decided. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Finally,  I 

should like to draw the attention of members to the fact 
that during the general debate, official photographs of 
all the speakers are taken by the Department of Public 
Information. Members interested in obtaining photographs 
are  requested  to  contact  the  Photo  Library  of  the  United 
Nations. 


Address by Ms. Dilma Rousseff, President of the 
Federative Republic of Brazil 
The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Federative Republic of Brazil. 

Ms.  Dilma  Rousseff,  President  of  the  Federative 
Republic of Brazil, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Dilma 
Rousseff,  President  of  the  Federative  Republic  of 
Brazil, and to invite her to address the Assembly. 
in  Portuguese; 

interpretation provided by the delegation): For the very 
first time in the history of the United Nations, a female 
voice  is  opening  the  general  debate.  It  is  the  voice  of 
democracy and equality that reverberates from a forum 
that  is  committed  to  being  the  most  representative  in 
the  world.  It  is  with  a  sense  of  personal  humility,  but 
with  justifiable  pride  as  a  woman,  that  I  greet  this 
historic moment.  

I  share  this  emotion  with  more  than  half  of  the 
human beings on this planet, who, like me, were born 
women  and  who,  with  a  sense  of  purposeful 
determination,  are  now  taking  the  place  in  the  world 
President  Rousseff
(spoke 
6 

they  rightly  deserve.  I  am  certain  that  this  will  be  the 
century  of  women.  In  the  Portuguese  language,  words 
such  as  life,  soul  and  hope  are  feminine  nouns.  Two 
other  words  in  Portuguese  that  are  especially  dear  to 
me  are  also  feminine,  namely,  courage  and  sincerity. 
And it is in a spirit of courage and sincerity that I wish 
to address the General Assembly today.  

The  world  is  experiencing  an  extremely  delicate 
period,  one  that  at  the  same  time  offers  us  a  major 
historic opportunity. We face an economic crisis that, if 
not  overcome,  could  become  a  source  of  serious 
political  and  social  disruption,  an  unprecedented 
upheaval  capable  of  causing  serious  imbalances  in 
relationships  between  people  and  nations.  More  than 
ever before, the fate of the world is in the hands of its 
rulers  and  leaders,  with  no  exceptions.  Either  we 
combine our efforts and emerge victorious together, or 
we will all emerge defeated. It is now less important to 
know  or  decide  who  caused  the  situation  we  are 
facing —  because,  after  all,  that  is  clear  enough  by 
now.  What  does  matter  is  that  we  start  finding 
collective, speedy and genuine solutions. 

The current crisis is too serious to be managed by 
a few countries. Their Governments and central banks 
still  have  the  greatest  responsibility  in  implementing 
the  process.  Yet,  since  all  countries  suffer 
the 
consequences,  all  are  entitled  to  participate  in  their 
solutions.  It  is  not  because  of  a  lack  of  financial 
resources that the leaders of developed countries have 
not yet found a solution to the crisis. Rather, if I may 
put it this way, it is due to a lack of political resources 
and,  at  times,  of  clear  ideas.  There  is  a  part  of  the 
world  that  has  not  yet  found  a  balance  between 
appropriate  fiscal  adjustments  and  correct  and  precise 
fiscal  stimuli  conducive  to  demand  and  growth.  They 
have  been  caught  in  a  trap  that  does  not  distinguish 
between  partisan  interests  and  the  legitimate  interests 
of  society.  The  challenge  posed  by  the  crisis  entails 
replacing outdated theories that belong to an old world 
with new proposals crafted for a new world. 

shrinking, 
are 
unemployment,  the  bitterest  face  of  the  crisis,  is 
growing.  There  are  already  205  million  unemployed 
people in the world, of whom 44 million are in Europe 
and  14  million  in  the  United  States.  Tackling  this 
scourge  and  preventing  it  from  spreading  to  other 
regions  of  the  planet  is  vitally  important.  We  women 
know better than anyone that unemployment is not just 
it  affects  our  families,  children  and 
a  statistic; 
While  many  Governments 
11-50692 
including 


husbands.  It  takes  away  hope  and  leaves  a  trail  of 
violence and pain. 

It  is  quite  telling  that  it  is  the  President  of  an 
emerging  country,  a  country  experiencing  almost  full 
employment, who has come here today to speak in such 
stark terms of a tragedy that has mainly hit developed 
countries. 

Like other emerging countries, Brazil has thus far 
been  less  affected  by  the  global  crisis.  But  we  know 
that our ability to withstand the crisis is not unlimited. 
We are willing and able to help those countries that are 
already facing an acute crisis, while there is still time. 
A  new  kind  of  cooperation  between  emerging  and 
developed  countries  is  an  historic  opportunity  to 
redefine,  with  solidarity  and 
responsibility, 
the 
commitments that govern international relations. 

The world of today faces a crisis that is at once of 
economics,  governance  and  political  coordination. 
There  will  not  be  a  return  to  confidence  and  growth 
until  we  intensity  coordination  efforts  among  United 
Nations  Member  States  and  other  multilateral 
institutions, 
the 
International  Monetary  Fund,  the  World  Bank,  and 
other organs.  

The United Nations and those organizations must 
act urgently to send clear signals of political cohesion 
and  macroeconomic  coordination.  For  example,  fiscal 
and  monetary  policies  should  be  submitted  to  mutual 
assessment  in  such  a  way  as  to  ultimately  prevent 
undesirable  effects  on  other  countries,  thus  avoiding 
defensive reactions that in turn lead to a vicious circle.  

The  solution  to  the  debt  problem  should  be 
combined  with  economic  growth.  There  are  obvious 
signs  that  several  advanced  economies  are  on  the 
threshold of recession, which will significantly hamper 
resolution of their fiscal problems. 

It is clear that the priority for the world economy 
at  this  moment  should  be  to  solve  the  problems  of 
those  countries  that  are  facing  a  sovereign  debt  crisis 
and reversing the current recession scenario. The most 
coordinated 
developed 
policies 
that  have  been 
extremely  weakened  by  the  crisis.  Countries  with 
emerging  economies  can  help  in  that  effort.  Countries 
with  a  high  surplus  should  strengthen  their  domestic 
markets  and,  as  appropriate,  make 
their  foreign 
exchange rate policies more flexible in such a way that 
to  stimulate  economies 
the  Group  of  Twenty, 
countries  must 
establish 
A/66/PV.11
contributes  to  the  eventual  rebalancing  of  global 
demand.  

Deepening the regulation  of the financial system 
and  controlling  that  inexhaustible  source  of  instability 
is  a  pressing  need.  Controls  must  be  imposed  on  the 
foreign-exchange  war  by  adopting  floating  foreign-
exchange regimes. The task at hand is about preventing 
the  manipulation  of  foreign  exchange  that  occurs  not 
only 
through  excessively  expansionist  monetary 
policies  but  also  through  an  artificially  fixed  foreign 
exchange.  

Without  a  doubt,  the  reform  of  multilateral 
financial  institutions  should  continue,  thus  increasing 
the  participation  of  emerging  countries,  which,  as 
driving  forces,  are  responsible  for  the  growth  of  the 
world’s  economy.  We  should  fight  protectionism  and 
all  forms  of  commercial  manipulation.  They  do 
increase competitiveness, but in a spurious, fraudulent 
fashion. 

Brazil is doing its homework. With sacrifices, but 
at  the  same  time  with  a  sense  of  insightfulness,  we 
have kept Government spending under strict control, to 
the point of generating a sizable surplus in Government 
accounts  while  ensuring  that  those  steps  will  not 
compromise  the  success  of  our  social  policies  or  the 
pace of our investment and growth. We are also taking 
additional  precautions 
to 
withstand  the  crisis  by  strengthening  our  domestic 
market  with  income  distribution  and  technological 
innovation policies. 
For at least three years now, Brazil has reiterated — 

time and again, from this very podium — that we must 
all tackle the causes, and not only the consequences, of 
global instability. We have emphasized time and again 
the 
interrelations  among  development,  peace  and 
security. We  have  often  underscored  that  development 
policies  should  be  increasingly  coupled  with  the 
Security  Council’s  strategies 
the  pursuit  of 
sustainable peace.  

That  is  how  we  have  acted  as  part  of  our 
commitments  to  Haiti  and  to  Guinea-Bissau.  As  a 
leading  country  in  the  United  Nations  Stabilization 
Mission  in  Haiti,  Brazil  has  since  2004  undertaken 
integrate  security  and 
humanitarian  projects 
for  Haitian 
development.  With 
respect 
sovereignty,  Brazil 
the 
consolidation of democracy in that country. 
that 
deep 
is  proud 
to  buttress  our  ability 
to  assist 
in 
in 
11-50692 

7 
immigrants  from 
that  part  of 
A/66/PV.11 


We are in a position to provide a solidarity-based 
contribution  to  brotherly  countries  in  the  developing 
world  in  matters  such  as  food  security,  agricultural 
technology,  generation  of  clean  and  renewable  energy 
and the fight against hunger and poverty. 

Since  late  2010,  we  have  witnessed  a  series  of 
grass-roots demonstrations that have come to be known 
as the Arab Spring. Brazil is the adopted homeland of 
many 
the  world. 
Brazilians sympathize with the pursuit of an ideal that 
belongs  to  no  culture  in  particular,  because  it  is  by 
definition universal: freedom. 

The  nations  united  here  today  must  find  a 
legitimate and effective way to aid those societies that 
cry out for reform — without, however, depriving their 
citizens  of  a  lead  role  in  the  process.  We  strongly 
repudiate the brutal crack down episodes that victimize 
civilian populations. We remain convinced that for the 
international  community,  resort  to  force  must  always 
be the last alternative.  

The  quest  for  peace  and  security  in  the  world 
cannot be limited to interventions in extreme situations 
only. We support the Secretary-General in his efforts to 
engage  the  United  Nations  in  conflict  prevention  by 
tirelessly 
and  promoting 
development.  The  world  of  today  suffers  from  the 
painful  consequences  of 
that  have 
worsened existing conflicts. That has allowed terrorism 
to  creep  into  areas  where  it  previously  did  not  exist, 
thus generating new cycles of violence and multiplying 
the number of civilian victims. 

Much  is  said  about  the  responsibility  to  protect, 
yet  little  is  said  about  responsibility  while  protecting. 
These  are  concepts  that  we  must  develop  and  mature 
together. To that end, the role of the Security Council is 
critical,  and  the  more  legitimate  its  decisions  are,  the 
more  appropriate  that  role  will  be. And  the  Council’s 
very legitimacy increasingly depends upon its reform.  

With each passing year, a  solution to the lack of 
representativeness in the Security Council becomes an 
ever  more  urgent  need,  which  in  turn  erodes  its 
efficacy.  Former  Assembly  President  Joseph  Deiss 
reminded  me  of  an  impressive  fact,  namely,  that  the 
debate on the proposed reform of the Security Council 
is now entering its eighteenth year.  

We  can  delay  no  longer.  The  world  needs  a 
Security Council that reflects contemporary realities, a 
exercising  diplomacy 
interventions 

Council  that  will  incorporate  new  permanent  and 
non-permanent members, especially those representing 
developing countries. 

Brazil is ready to take on its responsibilities as a 
permanent  member  of  the  Council.  We  have  lived  in 
peace with our neighbours for more than 140 years and 
have  fostered  successful  integration  and  cooperation 
processes with them. Our Constitution expressly states 
our  commitment  to  abstain  from  the  use  of  nuclear 
energy  for  non-peaceful  purposes.  I  am  proud  to  say 
that Brazil is a driver of peace, stability and prosperity 
in the region and even beyond it. 

In  the  Human  Rights  Council,  we  have  drawn 
inspiration  from  our  own  history  of  endeavour  as  a 
nation. We desire for other countries what we desire for 
ourselves.  Authoritarianism,  xenophobia,  poverty, 
capital  punishment  and  discrimination  are  all  sources 
of  human  rights  violations.  We  know  that  violations 
occur  in  every  country,  without  exception.  We  must 
recognize this reality, and we must accept criticism. We 
will  ultimately  benefit  from  criticism,  and  we  should 
pointedly  criticize  flagrant  violations  wherever  they 
occur. 

I welcome South Sudan to our family of nations. 
Brazil is ready to cooperate with the youngest Member 
of the United Nations and to contribute to its sovereign 
development.  

I regret, however, that from this podium I am still 
unable  to  welcome  Palestine  into  full  membership  of 
the Organization. Brazil has recognized the Palestinian 
State  as  defined  by  the  1967  borders,  in  accordance 
with United Nations resolutions. Like most countries in 
the  Assembly,  we  believe  that  the  time  has  come  for 
Palestine  to  be  represented  as  a  full  Member  in  this 
forum. 

the  Palestinian  people’s 
legitimate  right  to  sovereignty  and  self-rule  expands 
the possibilities and prospects for a lasting peace in the 
Middle  East.  Only  a  free  and  sovereign  Palestine  can 
respond  to  Israel’s  legitimate  desire  for  peace  with  its 
neighbours,  security  within  its  borders  and  political 
stability  in  its  region.  I  come  from  a  country  where 
descendents of Arabs and Jews are compatriots and live 
together in harmony, which is as it should be. 

Brazil advocates for a global, comprehensive and 
ambitious  agreement  within  the  framework  of  the 
United  Nations  to  fight  climate  change.  To  achieve 
The  recognition  of 
11-50692 
8 

their 
shoulder 
countries  must 


this, 
respective 
responsibilities. Brazil submitted a concrete, voluntary 
and  significant  proposal  for  reducing  greenhouse  gas 
emissions  during  the  2009  United  Nations  Climate 
Change Conference in Copenhagen. We hope to be able 
to  make  progress  at  the  upcoming  meeting  in  Durban 
by  supporting  developing  countries  in  their  efforts  to 
reduce  emissions,  and  at  the  same  time  ensuring  that 
developed  countries  fulfil  their  obligations,  beyond 
2012,  on  the  basis  of  new  targets  under  the  Kyoto 
Protocol.  

Brazil will have the honour of hosting the United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  — 
Rio+20  —  in  June  of  2012.  Along  with  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon,  I  reiterate  our  invitation  to  all 
heads  of  State  and  Government  to  join  us  at  that 
Conference next year. 

Brazil has learned that fighting poverty is the best 
development  policy,  and  that  a  genuine  human  rights 
policy  must  ultimately  be  based  on 
reducing 
inequalities  and  discrimination  between  and  among 
regions, people and genders. Brazil has made political, 
economic  and  social  progress  without  compromising 
any of its democratic freedoms. We have met almost all 
of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  before  2015. 
Forty million Brazilian men and women have come up 
out  of  poverty  and  been  lifted  into  the  middle  class.  I 
am  fully  confident  that  we  will  achieve  our  goal  of 
eradicating extreme poverty in Brazil by the end of my 
term in office. 

In my country, women have been vital to the task 
of  overcoming 
income 
distribution  programmes  place  mothers  as  the  central 
figures  in  the  scheme.  It  is  they  who  manage  the 
resources that allow families to invest in the health and 
education of their children. Yet my country, like every 
other nation, still has to do much more when it comes 
to  valuing  women  and  asserting  their  status.  In  that 
regard,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  the  Secretary-
General for making women a priority during his tenure 
at  the  head  of  the  United  Nations.  I  particularly 
welcome 
the 
appointment  of  its  Executive  Director,  Ms.  Michelle 
Bachelet. 

Besides  speaking  on  behalf  of  my  own  beloved 
country,  I  feel  that  when  I  stand  up  here  I  am 
representing  all  the  women  of  the  world  —  the 
anonymous  women,  those  who  starve  and  cannot  feed 
the  creation  of  UN-Women  and 
inequalities.  Our 
social 
A/66/PV.11
their  children,  those  who  are  suffering  from  illnesses 
and  cannot  get  treatment,  those  who  are  victims  of 
violence  or  who  are  discriminated  against  at  work,  in 
society and in their family life, and those who labour at 
home to bring up future generations. I add my voice to 
those of the women who have dared to struggle, to take 
part  in  political  and  professional  life,  and  who  have 
thus gained the spheres of power that allow me to stand 
here today. 

As a woman who was the victim of torture while 
in prison,  I  am all too aware of how important values 
such as democracy, justice, human rights and freedom 
are  to  all  of  us.  It  is  my  hope  that  these  values  will 
continue  to  inspire  the  work  of  this  house  of  nations, 
where I am honoured to open the general debate of the 
sixty-sixth session of the General Assembly. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the Federative Republic of Brazil for the statement she 
has just made. 

Ms.  Dilma  Rousseff,  President  of  the  Federative 
Republic  of  Brazil,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
from 


into 
Address by Mr. Barack Obama, President of the 
United States of America 
The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

will now hear an address by the President of the United 
States of America. 

Mr. Barack Obama, President of the United States 
of  America,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Barack  Obama,  President 
of  the  United  States  of America,  and  to  invite  him  to 
address the Assembly. 
President Obama: It is a great honour for me to 

be  here  today.  I  would  like  to  talk  to  the  General 
Assembly  about  a  subject  that  is  at  the  heart  of  the 
United Nations — the pursuit of peace in an imperfect 
world. 

War  and  conflict  have  been  with  us  since  the 
beginning  of  civilization.  But  in  the  first  part  of  the 
twentieth century, the advance of modern weaponry led 
to  death  on  a  staggering  scale.  It  was  that  killing  that 
11-50692 

9 

A/66/PV.11 

compelled  the  founders  of  this  body  to  build  an 
institution that was focused not just on ending one war, 
but on averting others; a union of sovereign States that 
would seek to prevent conflict while also addressing its 
causes. 

No  American  did  more  to  pursue  that  objective 
than  President  Franklin  Roosevelt.  He  knew  that  a 
victory in war was not enough. As he said at one of the 
very  first  meetings  on  the  founding  of  the  United 
Nations, “We have got to make not merely peace, but a 
peace that will last”. 

The  men  and  women  who  built  this  institution 
understood that peace is more than the absence of war. 
A  lasting  peace  —  for  nations  and  individuals  — 
depends  upon  a  sense  of  justice  and  opportunity;  of 
dignity  and  freedom.  It  depends  upon  struggle  and 
sacrifice;  on  compromise  and  on  a  sense  of  common 
humanity. 
One  delegate  to  the  San  Francisco  Conference, 

which led to the creation of the United Nations, put it 
well: 

“Many people have talked as if all we had to do 
to get peace was to say loudly and frequently that 
we  loved  peace  and  hated  war.  Now  we  have 
learned  that  no  matter  how  much  we  love  peace 
and  hate  war,  we  cannot  avoid  having  war 
brought upon us if there are convulsions in other 
parts of the world”. 

The fact is, peace is hard, but our people demand 
it.  Over  nearly  seven  decades,  even  as  the  United 
Nations helped avert a third world war, we still live in 
a  world  scarred  by  conflict  and  plagued  by  poverty. 
Even as we proclaim our love for peace and hatred of 
war,  there  are  still  convulsions  in  our  world  that 
endanger us all. 

I took office at a time of two wars for the United 
States.  Moreover,  the  violent  extremists  who  drew  us 
into war in the first place — Osama bin Laden and his 
Al-Qaida organization — remained at large. Today, we 
have set a new direction. 

At  the  end  of  this  year,  America’s  military 
operation  in  Iraq  will  be  over. We  will  have  a  normal 
relationship  with  a  sovereign  nation  that  is  a  member 
of  the  community  of  nations.  That  equal  partnership 
will be strengthened by our support for Iraq — for its 
Government  and its security forces,  for its people  and 
their aspirations. 
10 


As we end the war in Iraq, the United States and 
our  coalition  partners  have  begun  a  transition  in 
Afghanistan.  Between  now  and  2014,  an  increasingly 
capable  Afghan  Government  and  security  forces  will 
step  forward  to  take  responsibility  for  the  future  of 
their  country.  As  they  do,  we  are  drawing  down  our 
own  forces,  while  building  an  enduring  partnership 
with the Afghan people. 

So  let  there  be  no  doubt:  the  tide  of  war  is 
receding. When I took office, roughly 180,000 Americans 
were  serving  in  Iraq  and  Afghanistan.  By  the  end  of 
this  year,  that  number  will  be  cut  in  half,  and  it  will 
continue to decline. This is critical for the sovereignty 
of  Iraq  and  Afghanistan,  and  to  the  strength  of  the 
United States as we build our nation at home. 

Moreover, we are poised to end these wars from a 
position of strength. Ten years ago, there was an open 
wound and twisted steel; a broken heart in the centre of 
this  city.  Today,  as  a  new  tower  is  rising  at  Ground 
Zero,  it  symbolizes  New  York’s  renewal,  even  as 
Al-Qaida  is  under  more  pressure  than  ever  before.  Its 
leadership has been degraded. Osama bin Laden, a man 
who  murdered  thousands  of  people  from  dozens  of 
countries,  will  never  endanger  the  peace  of  the  world 
again. 

Yes,  this  has  been  a  difficult  decade.  But  today 
we stand at a crossroads of history, with the chance to 
move decisively in the direction of peace. To do so we 
must  return  to  the  wisdom  of  those  who  created  this 
institution.  
The  founding  Charter  of  United  Nations  calls 

upon us, to unite our strength to maintain international 
peace  and  security.  Article  1  of 
the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights  reminds  us  that,  “All 
human beings are born free and equal in dignity and in 
rights”. Those  bedrock  beliefs  —  in  the  responsibility 
of States and the rights of men and women — must be 
our guide. 
In that effort, we have reason to hope. This year 

has been a time of extraordinary transformation. More 
nations have stepped forward to maintain international 
peace and security. More individuals are claiming their 
universal right to live in freedom and dignity. 

Think about it. One year ago, when we met here 
in  New York,  the  prospect  of  a  successful  referendum 
in  South  Sudan  was  in  doubt.  But  the  international 
community  overcame  old  divisions  to  support  the 
11-50692 
to 
look 
they  chose 


agreement  that  had  been  negotiated  to  give  South 
Sudan  self-determination.  Last  summer,  as  a  new  flag 
went up in Juba, former soldiers laid down their arms, 
men  and  women  wept  with  joy  and  children  finally 
knew the promise of looking to a future that they will 
shape. 

One  year  ago,  the  people  of  Côte  d’Ivoire 
approached  a  landmark  election.  When  the  incumbent 
lost  and  refused  to  respect  the  results,  the  world 
refused 
the  other  way.  United  Nations 
peacekeepers  were  harassed,  but  they  did  not  leave 
their  posts.  The  Security  Council,  led  by  the  United 
States,  Nigeria  and  France,  came  together  to  support 
the  will  of  the  people.  Côte  d’Ivoire  is  now  governed 
by the man who was elected to lead. 
One year ago, the hopes of the people of Tunisia 

were  suppressed.  But 
the  dignity  of 
peaceful protest over the rule of an iron fist. A vendor 
lit  a  spark  that  took  his  own  life,  but  ignited  a 
movement. In the face of a crackdown, students spelled 
out the word freedom. The balance of fear shifted from 
the  ruler  to  those  whom  he  ruled.  Now  the  people  of 
Tunisia are preparing for elections that will move them 
one step closer to the democracy that they deserve. 

One year ago, Egypt had known one President for 
nearly 30 years. But for 18 days, the eyes of the world 
were glued to Tahrir Square, where Egyptians from all 
walks  of  life  —  men  and  women,  young  and  old, 
Muslim  and  Christian  —  demanded  their  universal 
rights.  We  saw  in  those  protesters  the  moral  force  of 
non-violence  that  has  lit  the  world  from  Delhi  to 
Warsaw, from Selma to South Africa — and we knew 
that change had come to Egypt and to the Arab world. 

One year ago, the people of Libya were ruled by 
the  world’s  longest-serving  dictator.  But  faced  with 
bullets  and  bombs  and  a  dictator  who  threatened  to 
hunt  them  down  like  rats,  they  showed  relentless 
bravery. We will never forget the words of the Libyan 
who stood up in those early days of the revolution and 
said,  “Our  words  are  free  now”.  It  is  a  feeling  one 
cannot explain. Day after day, in the face of bullets and 
bombs,  the  Libyan  people  refused  to  give  back  that 
freedom. And  when  they  were  threatened  by  the  kind 
of  mass  atrocity  that  often  went  unchallenged  in  the 
past century, the United Nations lived up to its Charter. 
The  Security  Council  authorized  all  necessary 
measures  to  prevent  a  massacre.  The  Arab  League 
A/66/PV.11
So 
today,  Libya 
to  Benghazi  — 
the  new  Libya  and 
called for that effort. Arab nations joined a NATO-led 
coalition that halted Al-Qadhafi’s forces in their tracks. 

In  the  months  that  followed,  the  will  of  the 
coalition  proved  unbreakable,  and  the  will  of  the 
Libyan people could not be denied. Forty-two years of 
tyranny  were  ended  in  six  months.  From  Tripoli  to 
Misurata 
is  free. 
Yesterday,  the  leaders  of  a  new  Libya  took  their 
rightful  place  beside  us,  and  this  week  the  United 
States is reopening our embassy in Tripoli. 
This  is  how  the  international  community  is 

supposed to  work — nations standing  together for the 
sake  of  peace  and  security,  and  individuals  claiming 
their  rights.  Now,  all  of  us  have  a  responsibility  to 
support 
the  new  Libyan 
Government  as  they  confront  the  challenge  of  turning 
this  moment  of  promise  into  a  just  and  lasting  peace 
for all Libyans. 
this  has  been  a  remarkable  year.  The 

Al-Qadhafi  regime  is  over.  Gbagbo,  Ben  Ali  and 
Mubarak  are  no  longer  in  power.  Osama  bin  Laden  is 
gone,  and  the  idea  that  change  could  come  only 
through violence has been buried with him. Something 
is happening in our world. The way things have been is 
not the way that they will  be. The humiliating grip of 
corruption  and  tyranny  is  being  pried  open.  Dictators 
are  on  notice.  Technology  is  putting  power  into  the 
hands  of  the  people.  Youth  are  delivering  a  powerful 
rebuke  to  dictatorship  and  rejecting  the  lie  that  some 
races,  some  peoples,  some 
religions  and  some 
ethnicities  do  not  desire  democracy.  The  promise 
written  down  on  paper  —  “all  human  beings  are  born 
free  and  equal  in  dignity  and  rights”  —  is  closer  at 
hand. 
But let us remember: Peace is hard. Peace is hard. 

Progress  can  be  reversed.  Prosperity  comes  slowly. 
Societies  can  split  apart.  The  measure  of  our  success 
must be whether people can live in sustained freedom, 
dignity  and  security.  And  the  United  Nations  and  its 
Member  States  must  do  their  part  to  support  those 
basic aspirations. And we have more work to do. 

In Iran, we have seen a Government that refuses 
to recognize the  rights of its own  people. As  we meet 
here  today,  men,  women  and  children  are  being 
tortured, detained and murdered by the Syrian regime. 
Thousands have been killed, many during the holy time 
of  Ramadan.  Thousands  more  have  poured  across 
Syria’s borders. The Syrian people have shown dignity 
11-50692 

11 

that 
the  hope 
A/66/PV.11 

and  courage  in  their  pursuit  of  justice,  protesting 
peacefully, standing silently in the streets and dying for 
the  same  values  that  this  institution  is  supposed  to 
stand  for.  And  the  question  for  us  is  clear:  Will  we 
stand with the Syrian people or with their oppressors? 

Already,  the  United  States  has  imposed  strong 
sanctions on Syria’s leaders. We supported a transfer of 
power  that  would  be  responsive  to  the  Syrian  people. 
And many of our allies have joined in this effort. But 
for the sake of Syria — and the peace and security of 
the  world  —  we  must  speak  with  one  voice.  There  is 
no excuse for inaction. Now is the time for the Security 
Council to sanction the Syrian regime and to stand with 
the Syrian people. 

Throughout  the  region,  we  will  have  to  respond 
to  the  calls  for  change.  In  Yemen,  men,  women  and 
children  gather  by  the  thousands  in  towns  and  city 
squares  every  day  with 
their 
determination  and  spilled  blood  will  prevail  over  a 
corrupt system. America supports those aspirations. We 
must  work  with Yemen’s  neighbours  and  our  partners 
around  the  world  to  seek  a  path  that  allows  for  a 
peaceful transition of power from President Saleh, and 
a  movement  to  free  and  fair  elections  as  soon  as 
possible. 

In Bahrain, steps have been taken towards reform 
and accountability. We are pleased with that, but more 
is  required. America  is  a  close  friend  of  Bahrain,  and 
we  will  continue  to  call  on  the  Government  and  the 
main  opposition  bloc  —  al-Wifaq  —  to  pursue  a 
meaningful dialogue that brings peaceful change that is 
responsive to the people. We believe the patriotism that 
binds  Bahrainis  together  must  be  more  powerful  than 
the sectarian forces that would tear them apart. It will 
be hard, but it is possible. 

We  believe  that  each  nation  must  chart  its  own 
course  to  fulfil  the  aspirations  of  its  people. America 
does  not  expect  to  agree  with  every  party  or  person 
who  expresses  themselves  politically,  but  we  will 
always  stand  up  for  the  universal  rights  that  were 
embraced  by  this  Assembly.  Those  rights  depend  on 
elections  that  are  free  and  fair,  governance  that  is 
transparent  and  accountable,  respect  for  the  rights  of 
women  and  minorities,  and  justice  that  is  equal  and 
fair.  That  is  what  our  people  deserve.  Those  are  the 
elements of peace that can last. 
Moreover,  the  United  States  will  continue  to 

support,  with  greater  trade  and  investment,  those 
12 

themselves.  One  year 
nations that transition to democracy, so that freedom is 
followed  by  opportunity.  We  will  pursue  deeper 
engagement  with  Governments,  but  also  with  civil 
society — students and entrepreneurs, political parties 
and the press. We have banned those who abuse human 
rights  from  travelling  to  our  country  and  we  have 
sanctioned those who trample on human rights abroad. 
And  we  will  always  serve  as  a  voice  for  those  who 
have been silenced. 

Now,  I  know,  particularly  this  week,  that  for 
many in this Hall, there is one issue that stands as a test 
of  these  principles  and  a  test  of  American  foreign 
policy, and that is the conflict between the Israelis and 
the Palestinians. 

One year ago, I stood at this podium and I called 
for  an  independent  Palestine.  I  believed  then,  and  I 
believe now, that the Palestinian people deserve a State 
of  their  own,  but  what  I  also  said  is  that  a  genuine 
peace can be realized only between the Israelis and the 
Palestinians 
later,  despite 
extensive  efforts  by  America  and  others,  the  parties 
have  not  bridged  their  differences.  Faced  with  this 
stalemate, I put forward a new basis for negotiations in 
May of this year. That basis is clear. It is well known to 
all  of  us  here.  Israelis  must  know  that  any  agreement 
provides  assurances  for  their  security.  Palestinians 
deserve to know the territorial basis of their State. 

I  know  that  many  are  frustrated  by  the  lack  of 
progress; I assure them that I am too. But the question 
is not the goal that  we  seek. The question is: How do 
we reach that goal? And I am convinced that there is no 
shortcut  to  the  end  of  a  conflict  that  has  endured  for 
decades.  Peace  is  hard  work.  Peace  will  not  come 
through  statements  and  resolutions  at  the  United 
Nations.  If  it  were  that  easy,  it  would  have  been 
accomplished by now. Ultimately, it is the Israelis and 
the Palestinians who must live side by side. Ultimately, 
it is the Israelis and the Palestinians — not us — who 
must  reach  agreement  on  the  issues  that  divide  them: 
on  borders  and  on  security,  on  refugees  and  on 
Jerusalem. 

Ultimately,  peace  depends  upon  compromise 
among  people  who  must  live  together  long  after  our 
speeches  are  over,  long  after  our  votes  have  been 
tallied.  That  is  the  lesson  of  Northern  Ireland,  where 
ancient  antagonists  bridged  their  differences.  That  is 
the lesson of the Sudan, where a negotiated settlement 
led to an independent State. And that is and will be the 
11-50692 
this 
But  understand 
Let  us  be  honest  with  ourselves:  Israel 


path to a Palestinian State — negotiations between the 
parties. 

We  seek  a  future  where  Palestinians  live  in  a 
sovereign State of their own, with no limit to what they 
can achieve. There is no question that the Palestinians 
have  seen  that  vision  delayed  for  too  long.  It  is 
precisely  because  we  believe  so  strongly  in  the 
aspirations  of  the  Palestinian  people  that America  has 
invested  so  much  time  and  so  much  effort  in  the 
building  of  a  Palestinian  State  and  in  the  negotiations 
that can deliver a Palestinian State. 

as  well:  America’s 
commitment  to  Israel’s  security  is  unshakeable.  Our 
friendship with Israel is deep and enduring. And so we 
believe  that  any  lasting  peace  must  acknowledge  the 
very  real  security  concerns  that  Israel  faces  every 
single day. 

is 
surrounded  by  neighbours  that  have  waged  repeated 
wars  against  it.  Israel’s  citizens  have  been  killed  by 
rockets fired at their houses and suicide bombs on their 
buses.  Israel’s  children  come  of  age  knowing  that 
throughout the region other children are taught to hate 
them.  Israel,  a  small  country  of  less  than  8  million 
people,  looks  out  at  a  world  where  leaders  of  much 
larger  nations  threaten  to  wipe  it  off  of  the  map.  The 
Jewish  people  carry  the  burden  of  centuries  of  exile 
and  persecution  and  fresh  memories  of  knowing  that 
6 million  people  were  killed  simply  because  of  who 
they are. Those are facts. They cannot be denied. 
The Jewish people have forged a successful State 

in their historic homeland. Israel deserves recognition. 
It  deserves  normal  relations  with  its  neighbours.  And 
friends  of  the  Palestinians  do  them  no  favours  by 
ignoring  that  truth,  just  as  friends  of  Israel  must 
recognize the need to pursue a two-State solution with 
a secure Israel next to an independent Palestine. 

That  is  the  truth.  Each  side  has  legitimate 
aspirations,  and  that  is  part  of  what  makes  peace  so 
hard. And the deadlock will be broken only when each 
side learns to stand in the other’s shoes  and each side 
can  see  the  world  through  the  other’s  eyes.  That  is 
what  we  should  be  encouraging.  That  is  what  we 
should be promoting. 

This  body  —  founded  as  it  was  out  of  the  ashes 
of  war  and  genocide,  and  dedicated  as  it  is  to  the 
dignity  of  every  single  person  —  must  recognize  the 
A/66/PV.11
the 
right  of 
they  advance 
reality that is lived by the Palestinians and the Israelis 
alike.  The  measure  of  our  actions  must  always  be 
whether 
Israeli  and 
Palestinian children to live lives of peace and security 
and  dignity  and  opportunity.  And  we  will  succeed  in 
that  effort  only  if  we  can  encourage  the  parties  to  sit 
down,  to  listen  to  each  other  and  to  understand  each 
other’s hopes and each other’s fears. That is the project 
to which America is committed. There are no shortcuts. 
And that is what the United Nations should be focused 
on in the weeks and months to come. 

Even as we confront these challenges of conflict 
and revolution, we must also recognize — and we must 
also  remind  ourselves  —  that  peace  is  not  just  the 
absence  of  war.  True  peace  depends  on  creating  the 
opportunity  that  makes  life  worth  living.  And  to  do 
that,  we  must  confront  the  common  enemies  of 
humanity: nuclear weapons and poverty, ignorance and 
disease. Those forces corrode the possibility of lasting 
peace  and  together  we  are  called  upon  to  confront 
them. 

To  lift  the  spectre  of  mass  destruction,  we  must 
come  together  to  pursue  the  peace  and  security  of  a 
world  without  nuclear  weapons.  Over  the  past  two 
years,  we  have  begun  to  walk  down  that  path.  Since 
our  Nuclear  Security  Summit  in  Washington,  D.C., 
nearly  50  nations  have  taken  steps  to  secure  nuclear 
materials from terrorists and smugglers. Next March, a 
summit in Seoul will advance our efforts to lock down 
all  of  them.  The  New  START  Treaty  between  the 
United States and Russia will cut our deployed arsenals 
to the lowest level in half a century, and our nations are 
pursuing 
to  achieve  even  deeper 
reductions. America will continue to work for a ban on 
the  testing  of  nuclear  weapons  and  the  production  of 
fissile material needed to make them. 

And  so  we  have  begun  to  move  in  the  right 
direction.  And  the  United  States  is  committed  to 
meeting  our  obligations.  But  even  as  we  meet  our 
obligations,  we  have  strengthened  the  treaties  and 
institutions that help stop the spread of those weapons. 
And  to  do  so,  we  must  continue  to  hold  accountable 
those nations that flout them. 

The Iranian Government cannot demonstrate that 
its programme is peaceful. It has not met its obligations 
and it rejects offers that would provide it with peaceful 
nuclear  power.  North  Korea  has  yet  to  take  concrete 
steps  towards  abandoning  its  weapons  and  continues 
talks  on  how 
11-50692 

13 
Innovation 
is 
an 

from  poverty. 
It 
to  open  markets. 
A/66/PV.11 

belligerent  action  against  the  South.  There  is  a  future 
of greater opportunity for the people of those nations if 
their Governments meet their international obligations. 
But  if  they  continue  down  a  path  that  is  outside 
international  law,  they  must  be  met  with  greater 
pressure and isolation. That is what our commitment to 
peace and security demands. 

To  bring  prosperity  to  our  people,  we  must 
promote  the  growth  that  creates  opportunity.  In  this 
effort,  let  us  not  forget  that  we  have  made  enormous 
progress over the past several decades. Closed societies 
gave  way 
and 
entrepreneurship have transformed the way we live and 
the things that we do. Emerging economies from Asia 
to  the  Americas  have  lifted  hundreds  of  millions  of 
people 
extraordinary 
achievement.  

And  yet,  three  years  ago,  we  were  confronted 
with  the  worst  financial  crisis  in  eight  decades.  And 
that  crisis  proved  a  fact  that  has  become  clearer  with 
each  passing  year.  Our  fates  are  interconnected.  In  a 
global economy, nations will rise or fall together. 
Today,  we  confront  the  challenges  that  have 

followed  on  the  heels  of  that  crisis. Around  the  world 
recovery  is  still  fragile.  Markets  remain  volatile.  Too 
many  people  are  out  of  work.  Too  many  others  are 
struggling  just  to  get  by. We  acted  together  to  avert  a 
depression 
take  urgent  and 
coordinated action once more. 

Here  in  the  United  States,  I  have  announced  a 
plan to put Americans back to work and jump-start our 
economy,  at  the  same  time  as  I  am  committed  to 
substantially reducing our deficits over time. 

We  stand  with  our  European  allies  as  they 
reshape  their  institutions  and  address  their  own  fiscal 
challenges. For other countries, leaders face a different 
challenge  as  they  shift  their  economy  towards  more 
self-reliance, boosting domestic demand while slowing 
inflation.  So  we  will  work  with  emerging  economies 
that have rebounded strongly so that rising standards of 
living create new markets that promote global growth. 
That is what our commitment to prosperity demands. 

To combat the poverty that punishes our children, 
we must act on the belief that freedom from want is a 
basic  human  right.  The  United  States  has  made  it  a 
focus of our engagement abroad to help people to feed 
themselves.  And  today,  as  drought  and  conflict  have 
in  2009.  We  must 
14 

brought  famine  to  the  Horn  of Africa,  our  conscience 
calls  on  us  to  act.  Together,  we  must  continue  to 
provide  assistance  and  support  organizations  that  can 
reach  those  in  need.  And  together,  we  must  insist  on 
unrestricted  humanitarian  access  so  that  we  can  save 
the lives of thousands of men and women and children. 
Our common humanity is at stake. Let us show that the 
life  of  a  child  in  Somalia  is  as  precious  as  any  other. 
That  is  what  our  commitment  to  our  fellow  human 
beings demands. 

To  stop  disease  that  spreads  across  borders,  we 
must  strengthen  our  system  of  public  health.  We  will 
continue the fight against HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis and 
malaria. We will focus on the health of mothers and of 
children.  And  we  must  come  together  to  prevent  and 
detect  and  fight  every  kind  of  biological  danger  — 
whether it is a pandemic like H1N1 or a terrorist threat 
or a treatable disease. 

This week, America signed an agreement with the 
World  Health  Organization  (WHO)  to  affirm  our 
commitment  to  meeting  that  challenge.  And  today,  I 
urge all nations to join us in meeting the WHO goal of 
making sure all nations have core capacities to address 
public  health  emergencies  in  place  by  2012.  That  is 
what  our  commitment  to  the  health  of  our  people 
demands. 

To preserve our planet, we must not put off action 
that climate change demands. We have to tap the power 
of science to save those resources that are scarce. And 
together,  we  must  continue  our  work  to  build  on  the 
progress  made  in  Copenhagen  and  Cancún,  so  that  all 
the  major  economies  represented  here  today  follow 
through on the commitments that were made. Together, 
we must work to transform the energy that powers our 
economies and support others as they move down that 
path.  That  is  what  our  commitment  to  the  next 
generation demands. 

To  make  sure  our  societies  reach  their  potential, 
we must allow our citizens to reach theirs. No country 
can afford the corruption that plagues the world like a 
cancer.  Together,  we  must  harness  the  power  of  open 
societies  and  open  economies.  That  is  why  we  have 
partnered  with  countries  across  the  globe  to  launch  a 
new partnership on open Government that helps ensure 
accountability  and  helps  to  empower  citizens.  No 
country  should  deny  people  their  rights  to  freedom  of 
speech  and  freedom  of  religion,  but  also  no  country 
should deny people their rights because of whom they 
11-50692 
A/66/PV.11

Mr. Barack Obama, President of the United States 
of  America,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
take 




love, which is why we must stand up for the rights of 
gays and lesbians everywhere. 

No  country  can  realize  its  potential  if  half  its 
population  cannot  reach  theirs.  This  week,  the  United 
States 
signed  a  new  declaration  on  women’s 
participation. Next year, we should each announce the 
steps  we  are  taking  to  break  down  the  economic  and 
political  barriers  that  stand  in  the  way  of  women  and 
girls. That is what our commitment to human progress 
demands. 
I  know  there  is  no  straight  line  to  that  progress, 

no  single  path  to  success.  We  come  from  different 
cultures,  and  carry  with  us  different  histories.  But  let 
us never forget that even as we gather here as Heads of 
different Governments, we represent citizens who share 
the  same  basic  aspirations  to  live  with  dignity  and 
freedom, to get an education and pursue opportunity, to 
love our families and love and worship our God, to live 
in the kind of peace that makes life worth living. 

It is the nature of our imperfect world that we are 
forced  to  learn  these  lessons  over  and  over  again. 
Conflict  and  repression  will  endure  so  long  as  some 
people refuse to do unto others as we would have them 
do  unto  us.  Yet  that  is  precisely  why  we  have  built 
institutions  like  this  —  to  bind  our  fates  together,  to 
help  us  recognize  ourselves  in  each  other  —  because 
those  who  came  before  us  believed  that  peace  is 
preferable 
to 
suppression,  and  prosperity  is  preferable  to  poverty. 
That  is  the  message  that  comes  not  from  capitals,  but 
from citizens, from our people. 

When  the  cornerstone  of  this  very  building  was 
put in place, President Truman came here to New York 
and  said,  “The  United  Nations  is  essentially  an 
expression of the moral nature of man’s aspirations” — 
the moral nature of man’s aspirations. As we live in a 
world that is changing at a breathtaking pace, that is a 
lesson that we must never forget. 
Peace is hard, but we know that it is possible. So, 

together, let us be resolved to see that it is defined by 
our  hopes  and  not  by  our  fears. Together,  let  us  make 
peace — but a peace, most importantly, that will last. 
the  General 

Assembly, I  wish to thank the President of the United 
States of America for the statement he has just made. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
to  war,  and  freedom 
is  preferable 
this  opportunity 
Address by His Highness Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa 
Al-Thani, Amir of the State of Qatar 
The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the Amir  of  the  State  of 
Qatar. 

His  Highness  Sheikh  Hamad  bin  Khalifa 
Al-Thani, Amir of the State of Qatar, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Highness  Sheikh  Hamad  bin 
Khalifa  Al-Thani,  Amir  of  the  State  of  Qatar,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
Sheikh Al-Thani  (spoke  in  Arabic):  It  gives  me 

great pleasure to address the General Assembly of the 
United Nations this year, at a time when its President is 
a son of the State of Qatar, His Excellency Mr. Nassir 
Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser.  I 
to 
congratulate him on his election and to wish him every 
success in his mission. I would also like to express my 
thanks  to  his  predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Joseph 
Deiss,  for  his  hard  work  during  his  presidency  of  the 
previous  session.  Let  me  also  congratulate  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  for  the  trust  that  all 
Member  States  expressed  in  him  by  reappointing  him 
as  Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations  for  a 
second term. 

I come to the Assembly from a region brimming 
with  great  expectations  and  hopes  that  is  navigating 
through  strong  currents,  a  region  whose  peoples  are 
calling for reform so that they can achieve their goals, 
assume their responsibilities and take their place in the 
partnership of the future of humankind,  with all of its 
challenges and prospects. 

We  have  been  aware  of  our  role  from  the  very 
beginning and we have acted within its parameters. We 
are  for  the  promotion  of  dialogue  among  cultures  and 
civilizations.  We  are  for  strengthening  and  consolidating 
relations  among  peoples. We  are  for  the  consolidation 
of  rapprochement  among  Powers  on  the  basis  of  the 
principles  of 
the 
framework  of  rightful  cooperation.  That  cooperation 
must  be  governed  by 
laws  and 
justice  and  within 
the  principles, 
right  and 
11-50692 

15 

rules 
that  govern  our  Arab, 
A/66/PV.11 

international  charters  and  covenants  that  have  been 
developed by humankind over the centuries to ensure a 
better future for the world. 

All members  of the Assembly are  aware that the 
blossoming  of  the  Arab  Spring  —  with  all  that  it 
represents in Arab and human history — has presented 
everyone  with  heavy  responsibilities  that  they  have  to 
assume, as well as positions that they have to take. We 
were  among  those  who  made  a  choice.  On  the  one 
hand, we have always had a clear policy with regard to 
the 
regional  and 
international  relations.  Those  rules  are  based  on 
understanding,  reconciliation  and  harmony  among 
peoples and nations. On the other hand, like others, we 
have been unable to turn a deaf ear or a blind eye to the 
calls  of  the  wounded  seeking  help  from  near  and  far 
against an entrenched oppression and injustice. 

For our part, we exhausted each and every means, 
until  the  only  option  left  for  us  was  to  hear  and 
sympathize, and to watch and help. We knew that this 
was not a solution, but rather an emergency situation in 
the  context  of  one  of  the  most  critical  issues  in  the 
Arab  world  today,  by  which  I  mean  the  issue  of 
change. 

We  know  that  our  principled  choices  are  stable 
and strong. We also know that our subsequent response 
to the prevailing situation stems from urgency, and that 
it is a situation that needs to be settled on the basis of 
the rules and laws that govern international relations in 
the  contemporary  world.  It  is  a  situation  that  should 
shift responsibilities from States acting individually to 
an  international  community  acting  in  accordance  with 
its rules and laws. 

We  have  already  expressed  our  views  here, 
during  previous  sessions  of  the  Assembly,  that  the 
United  Nations  system  needs  to  evolve  in  a  manner 
consistent with the situations that reflect the realities of 
a  new  world.  That  world  is  not  one  linked  with 
interests alone, but one where it is imperative to have 
an  agreement  that  confirms  the  principles  that  govern 
civilized  behaviour,  while  simultaneously  preserving 
the unity of those interests. 
The major problems in the Middle East region are 

the  question  of  Palestine  and  the  continued  Israeli 
occupation  of  Arab  territories  in  the  West  Bank,  the 
Golan  Heights  and  the  Shaba’a  farmlands  in  southern 
Lebanon,  in  addition  to  the  threat  of  war  and  the 
strangulating Israeli blockade of the Gaza Strip. 
ensure 
a 
lasting 
to  preserve 
that  would 

For over four decades, all peace efforts that have 
been deployed have resulted in failures to reach a just 
settlement 
and 
comprehensive peace in the region. This is because of 
Israel’s intransigent position, which seems to be that its 
military  might  enable  it  to  guarantee  peace  and 
security,  and  its  insistence  to  play  for  time  and  to  use 
the  negotiations 
the  status  quo  by 
continuing Jewish settlement. 

Faced with this stalemate in the Palestinian cause, 
the continued suffering of the Palestinian people under 
occupation and persistent violations of their human and 
national  rights,  we  urge  all  Member  States  of  the 
United Nations to listen to the voice of right. We urge 
them to respond to the Palestinians’ legitimate request 
for  a  Palestinian  State  that  will  become  a  full-fledged 
member  of  the  United  Nations,  on  an  equal  footing 
with  all  other  Member  States. This  will  pave  the  way 
for the realization of peace in our region.  
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the  General Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  Sheikh  Hamad 
bin  Khalifa Al-Thani, Amir  of  the  State  of  Qatar,  for 
the statement he has just made. I also wish to thank His 
Highness very much for his warm compliments. I hope 
that I will live up to his expectations and be worthy of 
his trust. 

Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani, Amir of the 
State  of  Qatar,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.  


Address by Mr. Felipe Calderón Hinojosa, President 
of the United Mexican States 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The  General 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the United Mexican States. 

Mr.  Felipe  Calderón  Hinojosa,  President  of  the 
United  Mexican  States,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Felipe Calderón 
Hinojosa, President of the United Mexican States, and 
to invite him to address the Assembly.  
President Calderón Hinojosa (spoke in Spanish): It 

is an honour for me to participate in this session of the 
General  Assembly.  We  have  heard 
extremely 
significant speeches, which have, deservedly, captured 
16 

11-50692 


the  attention  of  the Assembly.  However,  as  I  speak  in 
this  lofty  forum  of  the  international  community,  I 
would like to lay out Mexico’s views, a country that, as 
one  of  the  founding  States  of  the  United  Nations,  has 
actively  contributed  to  ensuring  that  the  Organization 
once  again  plays  its  role  in  promoting  peace,  justice, 
security,  equity  and  sustainable  development  among 
nations.  

The  world  faces  major  challenges,  about  which 
we have spoken today. We have talked about terrorism, 
war, peace, climate change and poverty. We know that 
we are afflicted by other problems, such as the global 
economic  crisis.  I  would  like  to  refer  to  just  a  few  of 
them now, as I am aware that our duty is to strengthen 
the United Nations, to make it less bureaucratic and to 
once again turn this into an Organization that is able to 
tackle the pressing challenges of our time. Faced with 
this  reality,  Mexico  is  shouldering  its  international 
responsibilities firmly and with determination. 

I  would  now  like  to  refer  to  the  problem  that  I 
think  today  most  afflicts  the  poorest  people  in  the 
world. More than 1 billion people, on every continent, 
are living on less than $1.25 a day. This is the problem 
of poverty. Over the past five years, the price of food 
has  risen  by  more  than  50  per  cent.  Over  the  past 
12 months, the average increase has been 26 per  cent. 
This means that the poorest families, who allocate most 
of  their  income  to  food,  have  sunk  even  deeper  into 
poverty.  

This  is  why  poverty  has  increased  around  the 
world.  This  is  why  we  once  again  see  famine  in  the 
Horn of Africa, in various nations on that continent, in 
Asia and in Latin America. This is why, in addition to 
the  democratic  awakening  of  certain  nations,  we  have 
seen  many  people  suffering  from  hunger  who  have 
taken to the streets. Hunger is what has, in many cases, 
awakened their awareness of democracy.  

Why  the  hike  in  food  prices?  That  is  the  first 
question  we  must  ask  ourselves.  It  is  partly  because 
developing countries have grown rapidly, and that is a 
good thing. China, India and many others have reached 
growth  rates  that  allow  their  people  to  have  greater 
access  to  food.  What  is  left  to  do  is  to  develop  the 
necessary  technology  to  increase  our  capacity  to 
produce food. 

Secondly, drought and climate change have been 
other  contributing  factors.  We  have  not  truly  realized 
that climate change is a serious threat to humankind as 
A/66/PV.11
Thirdly, 
there 
is 
in 
a  whole.  In  particular,  climate  change  is  behind  the 
drought  that  has  restricted  food  production  in  recent 
years.  

financial  speculation  and 
speculation  on  the  financial  markets.  Let  me  point  to 
one  bit  of  data.  In  1987,  financial  agents  and 
companies bought just 7 per cent of food on the world 
markets. Today, more than 30 per cent of sales of corn 
and  wheat 
the  world  are  made  by  financial 
companies. Why do they want corn and wheat? Is it to 
trade them on various markets or to distribute them to 
certain  regions?  Of  course  not.  Trade  companies  and 
distributors buy 70 per cent of wheat and corn, but the 
remaining 30 per cent is bought by financial firms with 
one specific purpose in mind, namely, speculation. We 
see  how  they  buy  and  sell  the  rights  to  food  with  the 
sole intent of driving up market prices, when thousands 
of  children  are  dying  of  hunger  across  the  various 
continents.  

I am someone who believes in markets, economic 
freedom  and  enterprise.  But  I  also  know  that  the  time 
has  come  for  restrictions  to  be  imposed  on  unbridled 
markets, which are also behind world hunger. 

The second challenge that I would like to refer to 
is  drug  trafficking  and  international  organized  crime. 
Everyone  is  surprised  by  the  dozens,  hundreds  and 
even 
repressive 
authoritarian regimes, and of course, we also repudiate 
these.  However,  we  also  have  to  be  aware  that 
organized  crime  today  is  killing  more  people  —  and 
more young people — than all of the current dictatorial 
regimes  put  together.  Today,  thousands  of  people  — 
tens  of  thousands  of  people  in  Latin  America,  in 
particular between Mexico and the Andes — are dying 
because of criminals. I greet with affection and respect 
my colleagues from Central and Latin America who are 
here today. 

the  challenge  of 
Today, 
unscrupulous  criminals  who  have  no  respect  for 
borders and who do grave harm to the citizens of many 
nations.  The  power  of  crime  is  stronger  than  many 
Governments, although  assuredly  not ours. This stems 
from  two  fundamental  factors,  namely,  the  exorbitant 
profits  that  flow  from  drug  trafficking  and  unlimited 
access to the purchase of powerful weapons.  

With respect  to weapons, why do criminals have 
unrestricted  access  to  AK-47s,  R-15s  and  grenade 
fought 
launchers? 
thousands  of  deaths  caused  by 
the  world 
In  my  view,  having 
fiercely 
faces 
11-50692 

17 
towards  activities 
Moreover,  organized  crime 
A/66/PV.11 

criminals  and  having  seized  120,000  weapons  in  five 
years, the answer can be summed up in a single word, 
profits — the runaway profits of an arms industry that 
sees in every war, whether a civil war in some distant 
country or a battle among criminals, an opportunity to 
sell ever more weapons.  

It is urgent for us to put in place serious controls 
in  countries 
that  produce  and  sell  high-power 
weaponry,  so  as  to  prevent  them  from  filling  the 
arsenals of organized crime. The United Nations has its 
work  cut out  for it in that  regard. The  United  Nations 
must  continue  to  promote  the  draft  international  arms 
trade  treaty  and  to  prevent  weapons  from  being 
diverted 
that  are  banned  by 
international law. 

the 
astronomical  profits  produced  by  the  illegal  sale  of 
drugs around the world. Unfortunately, the demand for 
drugs in those markets continues to increase. We must 
recognize  that  so  long  as  there  are  drug  consumers 
prepared  to  pay  tens  of  billions  of  dollars  to  maintain 
their addictions or preferences, that market will remain 
the primary financial support for criminal activity.  

Mexico  is  doing  its  part  to  energetically  fight 
crime  in  all  its  manifestations. Today  more  than  ever, 
however,  drug-consuming  countries  must  undertake 
effective efforts to radically reduce demand. It may be 
argued that this is impossible and that the demand for 
drugs  is  continuing  to  rise,  as  is  the  case  here  in  the 
United  States,  where  nearly  30  per  cent  of  young 
people use drugs, and in other parts of the world. 

What is the solution? I can honestly say that even 
if  those  countries  are  unable  or  unwilling  to  reduce 
their  demand  for  drugs,  or  if  they  are  resigned  to  the 
fact that it will continue to rise, they still have a moral 
obligation 
that  drug 
traffickers obtain from that black market. 

It  would  be  best  to  reduce  demand,  but  failing 
that,  reduce  profits.  Drug-consuming  nations  have  the 
obligation  to  find  a  way  to  cut  that  source  of  endless 
economic  gain,  and  to  seek  every  possible  solution, 
including  alternative  markets  that  would  prevent  drug 
trafficking  from  being  the  source  of  violence  and 
death,  especially  in  Latin America  and  the  Caribbean 
and various African countries. 

The third challenge to which I would like to refer 
is  climate  change.  Along  with  Mexico,  my  Central 
to  reduce 
the  huge  profits 
feeds  off 

important  agreements  were 
American  and  Caribbean  colleagues  are  experiencing 
ever more violent hurricanes that destroy the homes of 
the poor and cut short many lives. Ironically, just a few 
weeks  ago,  one  of  those  tropical  hurricanes  that  was 
headed  for  our  Caribbean  coast  landed  instead  on  the 
streets  of  Manhattan.  There  are  still  some  who  are 
surprised  that  there  are  hurricanes  in  New  York, 
unprecedented droughts in Texas and never before seen 
floods 
in  Pakistan  or  Mexico  or  Colombia  or 
Guatemala. Even with all this, they still do not accept 
the fact of global warming.  

I  can  proudly  state  that  we  have  made  progress 
and that Mexico has done its part in moving towards a 
solution  to  this  problem.  We  organized  the  sixteenth 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, in Cancún, 
where 
reached.  For 
example,  for  the  first  time,  nations  agreed  within  the 
framework  of  a  binding  United  Nations  instrument  to 
establish  a  global  limit  on  the  rise  in  temperature  of 
our planet — of no more than 2° centigrade by the end 
of this century.  

We  also  agreed  to  establish  the  Green  Fund,  to 
support  developing  countries  in  their  mitigation  and 
adaptation efforts.  

for 
technology  transfer  that  incorporates  methods  for 
reducing  emissions  caused  by  deforestation  and  soil 
degradation,  which will allow the poorest countries to 
contribute  to  reducing  global  warming  by  preserving 
their  forests  and  jungles.  In  Mexico,  more  than 
12 million  people  in  indigenous  communities,  who 
make  their  living  from  jungles  and  forests  and  who 
have had no choice but to destroy them, today use their 
woodlands in a sustainable way and are paid by the rest 
of society for the environmental service that their trees 
provide. 

With the approach of the seventeenth Conference 
of  the  Parties,  in  Durban,  we  fear  that  without 
sufficient  political  leadership  and  commitment  to  its 
own  Convention  by  the  United  Nations,  we  may  lose 
part  of  what  we  have  achieved  in  the  battle  against 
climate  change.  We  must  advance  within  the  Kyoto 
Protocol,  keeping  in  mind  that  the  provisions  of  annex  1 
expire  next  year.  What  will  happen  with  our 
environmental obligations in the light of the failure of 
the most relevant nations to take action? 
In  addition,  we  created  a  mechanism 
18 

11-50692 



The best way to fight climate change is to break 
with  the  false  argument  that  we  must  choose  between 
economic growth and combating climate change. They 
are  in  fact  perfectly  compatible.  Through  actions  that 
build  sustainable  development,  we  can  simultaneously 
reduce poverty and climate change. 

Finally,  another  challenge  is  the  social  basis  for 
reducing  poverty  and  marginalization.  In  Mexico  we 
established a programme for transferring money to the 
poorest of our population, with incentives for mothers 
who take their children to school or health clinics. The 
programme  offers  an  average  of  $80  monthly  to  the 
bottom fourth of Mexico’s poorest families, benefiting 
more  than  30  million  people  and  reducing  extreme 
poverty  in  our  country  by  nearly  50  per  cent  between 
1995 and 2010.  

Recently,  we  have  focused  on  guaranteeing  the 
health  of  all  Mexicans.  In  five  years,  we  have  added 
2,000  new  hospitals  and  clinics, 
reconstructed 
2,000 more and introduced a national health policy that 
already covers more than  100,000 people. This allows 
Mexico  to  proudly  state  today  in  the  United  Nations 
that 
this  year  we  will  achieve  universal  health 
insurance,  covering  doctors,  medicines,  treatment  and 
hospitalization for any Mexican who needs them. That 
achievement, of which we are proud, confirms the fact 
that  Mexico  has  already  achieved  almost  all  the 
Millennium Development Goals to which it committed 
itself. 

Finally,  I  should  now  like  to  discuss  a  crucial 
issue  that  has  to  do  with  the  transformation  and 
modernization  of  the  United  Nations.  The  conflict  in 
the  Middle  East  is  a  matter  that  has  clearly  tested  the 
capacity  of  the  Organization.  We  are  particularly 
concerned about the stalemate in negotiations between 
Israel  and  the  Palestinian  National  Authority.  The 
United  Nations  bears  the  responsibility  for  making  a 
constructive  contribution  to  the  peaceful  resolution  of 
this  conflict  —  one  that  makes  possible  the  existence 
of two States, reaffirms the recognition of Israel’s right 
to  exist  and  makes  the  establishment  of  a  Palestinian 
State  a  reality.  Of  course,  we  must  bear  in  mind  that 
this must be a genuine, viable and negotiated solution 
in  which  legitimate  and  balanced  mediation  plays  a 
fundamental  role.  Such  a  solution  must  also  be 
politically  and  economically  viable  and  enable  Israel 
and  Palestine  to  truly  exist  side  by  side  in  peace,  so 
that  new  generations  of  Israelis  and  Palestinians  can 
A/66/PV.11
it  should  be  understood  as 
truly know what it is to live together without hatred or 
violence. 

We should also remember that no solution can be 
found while either of the sides, explicitly or implicitly, 
desires  the  annihilation  of  the  other.  In  addition,  we 
must  make  progress  on  compliance  with  United 
Nations  resolutions  in  order  to  put  an  end  to  policies 
that we all know are contrary to international law. 

It  is  also  vital  that  we  move  forward  together  in 
transforming  and  modernizing  the  Organization.  It  is 
an  excellent  thing  that  the  United  Nations  building  is 
being  renovated;  now  we  need  to  modernize  the 
Organization  at  its  core.  It  must  not  fail  in  its 
commitment  to  history  and  humankind.  It  is  time  that 
all  Member  States  play  our  parts  in  ensuring  that  the 
Organization  has  the  strength  and  viability  that  it 
needs,  and  that  it  lacks.  There  have  been  many 
occasions,  for  instance,  when  the  United  Nations  has 
been  paralysed  by  the  tyranny  of  consensus,  where  a 
minority  is  able  to  defeat  a  large  majority.  Consensus 
must  no  longer  be  seen  as  the  veto  power  of  the 
obstinate;  rather 
the 
possibility of building shared and genuinely legitimate 
solutions that reflect the will of the majority. 

relevant  also 
necessarily implies the reform of the Security Council, 
whose  rules  of  participation  have  not  been  revised  in 
more  than  40  years.  Mexico  seeks  a  total  reform  that 
improves representation for all Council members while 
at  the  same  time  preserving  the  Council’s  capacity  to 
take action and promoting its members’ accountability. 
We  cannot  allow  the  chief  supranational  body  to 
become a decision-making centre for the few.  

Mexico  reaffirms  its  confidence  in  the  United 
Nations  as  a  forum  that  represents  the  diversity  and 
plurality of human beings. Mexico also reiterates that it 
will continue to be a strategic ally of the Organization 
in  the  struggle  for  peace,  the  war  against  hunger  and 
the struggle for security and the progress of all peoples 
of the world. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the United Mexican States for the statement he has just 
made. 

Mr.  Felipe  Calderón  Hinojosa,  President  of  the 
United  Mexican  States,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
Keeping 
the  United  Nations 
11-50692 

19 


A/66/PV.11 

Address by Mr. Nursultan Nazarbayev, President of 
the Republic of Kazakhstan 
The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Kazakhstan. 

Mr.  Nursultan  Nazarbayev,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Kazakhstan,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nursultan 
Nazarbayev,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Kazakhstan, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Nazarbayev  (spoke  in  Russian):  I 

would  like,  on  behalf  of  the  Republic  of  Kazakhstan 
and  on  my  own  behalf,  to  congratulate  Secretary-
General Ban Ki-moon on his re-election to his high and 
responsible office. I should also like to congratulate the 
Ambassador of Qatar, Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, 
on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session.  The  Republic  of 
Kazakhstan  also  congratulates  the  newest  Member  of 
the  community  of  nations,  the  Republic  of  South 
Sudan, on gaining its independence. 

This  year,  our  country  celebrates  the  twentieth 
anniversary  of  its  independence.  During  this  entire 
time,  Kazakhstan  has  faithfully  complied  with  the 
letter and spirit of the United Nations Charter. First, we 
closed the Semipalatinsk nuclear test site, the largest in 
the  world,  thereby  becoming  one  of  the  world’s  first 
new  non-nuclear  States.  This  represents  an  enormous 
contribution on the part of my country to global peace 
and stability. 
the 

Conference  on  Interaction  and  Confidence-Building 
Measures  in Asia  (CICA),  which  I  proposed  19  years 
ago  in  this  forum. Today  it  includes  participants  from 
29  countries,  representing  nearly  half  the  world’s 
population.  Last  year,  Kazakhstan  became  the  first 
country from the Commonwealth of Independent States 
to chair the Organization for Security and Cooperation 
in  Europe  (OSCE),  injecting  new  energy  into  every 
area  of  its  work.  We  also  succeeded  in  holding  an 
OSCE  summit  in  our  capital,  Astana,  the  first  in 
11 years.  The  adoption  of  the  Astana  Declaration  has 
helped to strengthen the OSCE and its efforts to create 
a  cooperative  and  indivisible  security  community 
Secondly,  we  succeeded 
in  convening 
live 
in  our  society 
the  Euro-Atlantic  and  Eurasian 
across 
regions. 
Kazakhstan  has  also  called  for  the  establishment  of  a 
single  platform  for  cooperative  Eurasian  security  by 
combining the capabilities of the OSCE and CICA over 
the long term. 

This  year,  Kazakhstan  assumed  an  important 
duty,  the  chairmanship  of  the  Organization  of  Islamic 
Cooperation  (OIC).  We  have  focused  our  chairmanship’s 
efforts  on  strengthening  international  and  regional 
security;  continuing  dialogue  between  the  Islamic 
world  and  the  West;  combating  Islamophobia;  and 
enhancing programmes promoting the non-proliferation 
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  The  most  recent  test 
for the OIC was the humanitarian crisis in Somalia. In 
that  regard,  we  succeeded  in  raising  $350  million  for 
programmes designed to deliver food, medical supplies 
and economic restoration to Somalia. 
Thirdly,  140  ethnic  groups  and  40  religious 

denominations 
in  peace  and 
harmony. Astana  regularly  hosts  congresses  of  leaders 
of  world  and  traditional  religions. We  have  offered  to 
hold  such  forums  under  the  auspices  of  the  United 
Nations,  and  they  have  stabilized  the  region.  That 
represents  our  contribution  to  the  global  dialogue  on 
confidence-building in the world. 

Fourthly,  our  country  has  demonstrated  a 
commitment  to  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
Following  the  break-up  of  the  Soviet  Union,  we  have 
been able to move to the forefront in terms of the pace 
of  reform  and  economic  growth.  In  the  past  two 
decades,  we  have  posted  a  14-fold  increase  in  per 
capita  gross  domestic  product,  from  about  $700  to 
about $10,000. 

Fifthly, Kazakhstan has called for the adoption of 
a  global  energy  and  environment  strategy  and  has  put 
forward  an  ambitious  “green  bridge”  environmental 
initiative.  We  plan  to  bring  these  ideas  to  the  United 
Nations Conference on Sustainable Development, to be 
held in Rio de Janeiro next year. 

The  world  is  entering  one  of  the  most  critical 
periods in its history. Humanity has harnessed powerful 
sources of energy but is powerless against the forces of 
nature.  Enclaves  of  poverty  and  destitution  are 
emerging,  even 
the  wealthiest  and  better-off 
countries.  It  is  becoming  harder  and  harder  to  contain 
outbreaks  involving  ethnic  and  religious  intolerance, 
even  in  societies  with  well-established  traditions  of 
tolerance. 
in 
20 

11-50692 



In today’s inclusive information age, there are no 
reliable  means  of  protection  against  electronic 
extremism.  Ten  years  ago,  the  whole  world  came 
together in the face of the terrible tragedy of 9/11. Yet 
no  conclusive  lessons  have  been  learned  from  it,  and 
the  resurgence  of  international  terrorism  is  evident  in 
various  parts  of  the  world.  These  are  the  main 
challenges of the new century. 

In that context, I would like to draw the attention 
of  participants  in  this  political  discussion  to  the 
following. 

First, we have to address issues related to global 
nuclear safety and security. We call for the start of the 
drafting  of  a  universal  declaration  on  a  nuclear-
weapon-free  world.  We  have  high  hopes  for  the 
Nuclear  Security  Summit,  scheduled  to  be  held  in 
Seoul  in  2012.  It  is  necessary  to  expand  the  legal 
framework  for,  and  increase  international  control  by 
the  United  Nations  and  the  International  Atomic 
Energy Agency, compliance by all countries with their 
obligations in the area of non-proliferation. 

We welcome the Treaty between the United States 
of  America  and  the  Russian  Federation  on  Measures 
for  the  Further  Reduction  and  Limitation  of  Strategic 
Offensive  Arms.  We  consider  it  important  that  all 
States that make up the Nuclear Club join that process. 

Today  the  world  faces  a  paradoxical  situation: 
some  are  allowed  to  possess  and  upgrade  nuclear 
weapons,  while  others  are  strictly  forbidden  to  be 
engaged  even  in  research  and  development.  This  is 
unjust,  disproportionate  and  unfair.  The  relevant 
provisions of international law must thus be reviewed. 
The  idea  is  to  strengthen  the  responsibility  of  all 
States,  especially  nuclear-weapon  States,  to  reduce 
nuclear weapons and gradually destroy their stockpiles. 

Today  there  are  no  clear  legal  assurances  to 
non-nuclear  States  by  nuclear-weapon  Powers.  In  this 
important  dimension,  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  does  not  work.  At  this  stage, 
nuclear weapons are not a deterrent but a catalyst of an 
arms race. 

In  the  twenty-first  century,  general  curbs  on  the 
arms  race  can  be  effectively  provided  only  by  a 
collegial body with broad powers such as the Security 
Council.  I  also  propose  that  we  issue  a  collective 
appeal on the part of the international community to de 
to 
A/66/PV.11
the 
to 
renounce 
their 
Secondly, 
The prevention of global hunger and the growing 
facto  nuclear-weapon  States 
ambitions and to accede to comprehensive treaties. 

increasing  globalization  of 
economic  processes  requires  a  paradigm  shift  in  the 
economic  component  of  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations.  The  raison  d’être  of  global  mechanisms  for 
currency, trade and economic regulation should be the 
forecasting of global crises and the elimination of their 
causes. 

It is generally agreed today that the current global 
crisis was caused by deficiencies in the global financial 
system.  However,  to  date  no  significant  steps  to 
address  its  flaws  have  been  taken.  Procrastination  in 
tackling  this  issue  will  result  in  new  and  violent 
manifestations of the crisis and a surge of regional and 
global instability. 

It  is  important  to  establish  an  effective  global 
economic  governance  mechanism,  with  clear  powers 
and  lines  of  accountability  involving  all  institutions 
and  actors,  an  effective  global  reserve  currency  and 
tight control over speculative capital. In this context, a 
pact on global regulation would seem quite relevant. 

scarcity of water are other important issues. 
Thirdly,  information  space  is  a  sphere  that  is  as 

important 
the  future  of  humanity  as  mineral 
resources,  air,  the  aquatic  world  and  outer  space.  Yet 
today  not  a  single 
international  convention  or 
multilateral  treaty  governs  information  processes.  Is 
that not the reason why, in practical terms, most hacker 
attacks on banks, businesses, Government institutions, 
the military and even nuclear facilities have been able 
to be carried out with impunity? 
an 

international  legal  framework  for  global  information 
space.  The  resolution  on  nine  elements  of  a  global 
culture  of  cybersecurity  (resolution  57/239),  adopted 
by  the  General  Assembly  in  2002,  could  serve  as  a 
basis for such efforts. 

Fourthly,  the  new  world  order  is  taking  shape 
against the backdrop of increasing conflicts. It is quite 
significant 
total  military 
spending  is  growing  twice  as  fast  as  it  did  during  the 
cold war — by 6 per cent a year, reaching $1.5 trillion. 
In  this  regard,  my  initiative  to  establish  a  United 
Nations peacekeeping fund, which I put forward for the 
first  time  19  years  ago,  has  become  even  more 
the  world’s 
that 
today 
I 
consider 
it 
important 
to 
establish 
11-50692 

21 
it 
to  upgrade 
is  essential 
the  Conference  on 
A/66/PV.11 

relevant. This would involve each State Member of the 
United  Nations  allotting  1  per  cent  of  its  military 
budget  for  that  purpose.  I  urge  the  international 
community  to  consider  this  idea  once  again  and  take 
the required action. 

Sixty-six  years  ago,  the  United  Nations  was 
founded  as  an  organization  based  on  the  principle  of 
the  sovereign  equality  of  all  its  Members.  However, 
one  cannot  but  notice  how  today  the  principle  of 
national  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  is  being 
eroded.  That  could  undermine  trust  between  nations. 
Today 
the  norms  of 
international  law  concerning  the  national  sovereignty 
of States and, taking into account new realities, clearly 
define the bounds beyond which the involvement of the 
international  community  in  the  settlement  of  internal 
conflicts is warranted. 

Global peace will be enhanced only if the United 
Nations  works  more  closely  with  regional  security 
arrangements.  With  respect  to  the  Eurasian  region, 
these  are 
Interaction  and 
Confidence-building  Measures  in  Asia,  the  Shanghai 
Cooperation  Organization  and  the  Collective  Security 
Treaty  Organization.  It  is  important  to  ensure  that  the 
composition  and  the  work  of  the  Security  Council 
adequately reflect the structure of the modern world. At 
the same time, the veto mechanism will guarantee that 
the  decisions  that  are  adopted  are  balanced  and 
effective. 

Kazakhstan  has  announced  its  candidacy  for  a 
non-permanent  seat  in  the  Security  Council  for  2017-
2018.  We  count  on  the  support  of  the  international 
community in this respect. 

The  complex  question  of  Palestine  has  been 
actively discussed these days. Kazakhstan supports the 
creation  of  a  Palestinian  State.  A  difficult  issue, 
however,  has  been  placed  on  the  scales  of  history; 
President  Obama  spoke  about  this.  For  the  long-
suffering Palestinian people, like the Israeli people, the 
negotiating  process  has  been  ongoing  for  more  than 
50 years.  Without  independence  and  their  own  State, 
the Palestinians will not be able to achieve sustainable 
peace in the Middle East. 
Each  new  era  in  the  history  of  humanity  gives 

rise 
to 
the  most 
important task is to successfully navigate the complex 
global  transformations  of  the  twenty-first  century. 
formidable  challenges.  Today, 

Trust and unity among all nations will be a pillar of an 
equitable new world order. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Republic  of  Kazakhstan  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made. 

the 
Mr.  Nursultan  Nazarbayev,  President  of 
Republic  of  Kazakhstan,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Nicolas Sarkozy, President of the 
French Republic  
The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

will now hear an address by the President of the French 
Republic. 

Mr.  Nicolas  Sarkozy,  President  of  the  French 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nicolas 
Sarkozy,  President  of  the  French  Republic,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Sarkozy  (spoke  in  French):  When  we 

met  in  this  very  place  in  September  last  year,  who 
among us could have imagined that in barely one year 
the  world,  already  shaken  by  an  unprecedented 
economic crisis, would undergo such change? Within a 
few  months,  the  Arab  Spring  gave  rise  to  immense 
hope. 

long  crushed  by 
oppression, were able to raise their heads and claimed 
the right to be free at last. They fought back against the 
violence  and  brutality  with  their  bare  hands. To  those 
who  proclaimed  that  the  Arab  Muslim  world  was  by 
nature  hostile  to  democracy  and  human  rights,  the 
young Arabs produced the most cogent denial. 

We do not have the right to disappoint the hope of 
the Arab peoples. We do  not have the  right to destroy 
their  dreams.  For  shattering  the  dreams  of  those 
peoples  would  vindicate  the  fanatics  who  have  not 
stopped  pitting  Islam  against  the  West  by  stirring  up 
hatred and violence everywhere. 

That  appeal  for  justice  shook  the  world,  and  the 
world  cannot  respond  to  that  call  for  justice  by 
perpetuating an injustice. That miraculous spring of the 
The  Arab  peoples, 
too 
22 

11-50692 


Arab  peoples  imposes  on  us  the  moral  and  political 
obligation at last to find a solution to the Middle East 
conflict. We cannot wait any longer. The method used 
to date — I weigh my words carefully — has failed. So 
we must change the method. 

We  must  stop  believing  that  a  single  country  — 
whether the largest or a small group of countries — can 
resolve  so  complex  a  problem. Too  many  large  actors 
have been sidelined for our efforts to succeed. I mean 
that  no  one  can  believe  that  the  peace  process  can 
succeed  without  Europe,  without  all  the  permanent 
members of the Security Council and without the Arab 
States  that  have  already  chosen  peace.  A  collective 
approach  has  become  indispensable  in  order  to  create 
trust and to provide guarantees to each of the parties. 

Peace will indeed be made by the Israelis and the 
Palestinians, and by no one else. No one can expect to 
impose it on them. But we must help them.  
The  method  no  longer  works.  Let  us  together 

acknowledge that setting preconditions for negotiation 
is  to  condemn  ourselves  to  failure.  Preconditions  are 
the  opposite  of  negotiation.  If  we  wish  to  enter  into 
negotiation, which is the only possible path for peace, 
there must be no preconditions. 

Let  us  change  the  method. All  the  elements  of  a 
solution are known — the Madrid Conference of 1991, 
President  Obama’s  speech  of  19  May,  the  Road  Map, 
the Arab Peace Initiative and the parameters agreed by 
the  European  Union.  So, 
let  us  stop  endlessly 
discussing  the  parameters  and  allow  negotiation  to 
begin in line  with a concrete and ambitious timetable. 
Sixty  years  without  one  centimetre’s  progress  —  does 
that  not  compel  us  to  change  the  method  and  time 
frame to one month to resume discussions, six months 
to  reach  agreement  on  borders  and  security,  and  one 
year to reach a definitive settlement? 

As  of  this  autumn,  France  proposes  hosting  a 
donor conference so that the Palestinians can complete 
the construction of their future State. France wishes to 
say  that  we  must  not  immediately  seek  the  perfect 
solution, because there are no perfect solutions. Let us 
choose  the  path  of  compromise,  which  is  neither 
renunciation  nor  repudiation,  but  which  allows  us  to 
move forward, step by step. 

Thus,  for  60  years  the  Palestinians  have  been 
waiting  for their State. Has the time not come to give 
them hope? For 60 years, Israel has suffered from not 
A/66/PV.11
being able to live in peace. For 60 years, the question 
of  the  peaceful  coexistence  of  the  two  peoples  — 
Palestinian  and  Israeli  —  has  continued  to  fester.  We 
can no longer wait to take the path of peace. Let us put 
ourselves  in  the  place  of  the  Palestinians.  Is  it  not 
legitimate  that  they  claim  their  State?  Of  course  it  is. 
And  who  does  not  see  that  creating  a  democratic, 
viable  and  peaceful  Palestinian  State  would  be,  for 
Israel, the best guarantee of its security? 

Let us put ourselves in the place of the Israelis. Is 
it not legitimate that, after 60 years of war and attacks, 
they demand guarantees of that peace, so long awaited? 
Of  course  it  is.  I  say  that  forcefully.  If  anyone 
anywhere in the world were to threaten the existence of 
Israel,  France  would  immediately  and  wholeheartedly 
stand  alongside  Israel.  Threats  made  against  a  State 
Member  of  the  United  Nations  are  unacceptable,  and 
they will not be accepted. 

Today, we are facing a very difficult choice. Each 
of us knows — and let us stop with hypocrisy and one-
off diplomacy — that full recognition of the status of a 
State Member of the United Nations cannot be attained 
at  once.  The  first  reason  for  that  is  the  lack  of  trust 
between the main parties. But let us tell the truth: who 
can  doubt  that  a  veto  in  the  Security  Council  will 
engender a cycle of violence in the Middle East? Who 
can doubt that? 

Must we therefore exclude an intermediate stage? 
Why  not  envisage  offering  Palestine  the  status  of 
United  Nations  Observer  State?  That  would  be  an 
important  step  forward. After  60  years  of  immobility, 
which has paved the way  for extremists, we would be 
giving  hope  to  the  Palestinians  by  making  progress 
towards final status. 
To  show  their  determined  commitment  to  a 

negotiated peace, the Palestinian authorities should, as 
part  of  that  approach,  reaffirm  Israel’s  right  to  exist 
and  to  its  security.  They  should  commit  to  avoiding 
using  this  new  status  to  resort  to  actions  that  are 
incompatible with the pursuit of negotiations. 
We  have  but  one  alternative  —  immobility  and 

negotiations 
intermediate 
solution that  would give hope to the Palestinians with 
the status of an Observer State.  

In parallel, Israel must observe the same restraint. 
It  must  abstain  from  any  actions  that  would  prejudge 
the final status.  
that  go  nowhere  or  an 
11-50692 

23 
like 
to  say 
to 
In  conclusion,  I  would 
A/66/PV.11 


The ultimate  goal must be  mutual recognition of 
two  nation-States  for  two  peoples  established  on  the 
basis  of  the  1967  lines  with  agreed  and  equivalent 
exchanges of land.  

The General Assembly, which has a power to do 
so, should decide to move ahead, leave behind the fatal 
trap  of  paralysis,  missed  appointments  and  short-lived 
attempts  to  relaunch  the  process.  Let  us  change  our 
approach. Let us change our state of mind. Each should 
try to understand the reasoning, sufferings and fears of 
the  other.  Each  must  open  its  eyes  and  be  ready  to 
make concessions. 

the 
Palestinian people with the deep and sincere friendship 
I hold for them: “Think of the Israeli mothers grieving 
for  their  family  members  killed  in  terrorist  attacks. 
They  feel  the  same  pain  as  the  Palestinian  mothers 
confronted with the brutal death of one of theirs”. 
I would like to say to the Israeli people with the 

deep and sincere friendship I hold for them: “Listen to 
what  the  young  people  of  the Arab  Spring  are  saying: 
‘Long live freedom!’ They are not  crying ‘Down  with 
Israel’. You cannot remain immobile when this wind of 
freedom and democracy is blowing in your region”. 

I  say  with  deep  and  sincere  friendship  for  these 
two  peoples  who  have  suffered  so  much  that  the  time 
has  come  to  build  peace  for  the  children  of  Palestine 
and  for  the  children  of  Israel.  But  it  would  be  a  great 
shame  if  the  General  Assembly  did  not  seize  the 
opportunity of the reawakening of the Arab peoples to 
democracy to settle a problem that brings unhappiness 
to these two peoples, who are in any event condemned 
to  live  alongside  each  other.  If  we  take  a  compromise 
solution, we will rebuild trust and we will give people 
hope. 

the 
representatives  of  all  nations.  We  must  assume  an 
historic  responsibility.  It  is  the  General  Assembly  of 
the  United  Nations  that  must  keep  this  appointment 
with History. 

Let  us  reassure  Israel  and  give  hope  to  the 
Palestinian people. The solution is on the table. Let us 
take this compromise solution over deadlock. Deadlock 
might satisfy everyone here, but it will create violence, 
bitterness  and  opposition 
the 
resurgence  of  the  Arab  peoples.  To  that,  France  says 
the  utmost  gravity 
that  with 
that  will 
imperil 
I  say 
to 

that the tragedy must cease for a simple reason: it has 
gone on for too long. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 
the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the French Republic for the statement he has just made. 
Mr.  Nicolas  Sarkozy,  President  of  the  French 

Republic,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
from 


the 
the 
Address by Ms. Cristina Fernández, President of the 
Argentine Republic 

The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 
will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Argentine Republic. 

Ms.  Cristina  Fernández,  President  of 
Argentine  Republic,  was  escorted 
into 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Cristina 
Fernández, President of the Argentine Republic, and to 
invite her to address the Assembly. 

President Fernández (spoke in Spanish): Exactly 
eight  years  ago,  in  this  same  context  and  from  this 
same  rostrum,  the  President  of  my  country,  Néstor 
Carlos  Kirchner,  addressed  the  Assembly,  four  years 
after  having  assumed  the  presidency  of  the Argentine 
Republic with only 22 per cent of the vote. Given the 
situation of the Argentine Republic — which had fallen 
into  default  in  2001,  where  about  a  quarter  of  the 
population  was  unemployed  and  levels  of  destitution 
and poverty had exceeded 50 per cent — he stated that 
the  multilateral  credit 
institutions  needed  reform, 
particularly the International Monetary Fund, as did the 
political bodies of this honourable Organization. 

President  Kirchner  made  five  speeches  to  the 
General Assembly,  and  I  have  made  four.  This  is  my 
fourth  statement  as  President  of  the  Republic.  In  each 
of  our  addresses  we  have  made  the  same  calls  to  a 
world that has changed significantly since 2003, when 
the Argentine Republic was cast as a black sheep gone 
astray  and  which  found  itself  in  default  because  of  a 
continued failure to fulfil its obligations. In reality, we 
were victims, used as guinea pigs in the experiments of 
the 1990s and neoliberal policies. 
24 

11-50692 



Much  has  happened  since  then,  when  Argentina 
defaulted on the largest debt — at least, so far — in the 
history  of  humanity,  $160  billion.  Over  the  past  eight 
years,  Argentina  has  restructured  its  debt,  reducing  it 
from  160  per  cent  to  less  than  30  per  cent  of  gross 
domestic  product  (GDP).  The  rates  of  poverty  and 
indigence  have  been  reduced  to  single  digits,  and  we 
must  continue  that  fight.  Our  unemployment  rate  is 
among  the  lowest,  and  we  have  completed  the  most 
significant cycle of economic growth in our 200 years 
of history. 

Among  the  emerging  countries  of  our  region, 
Latin  America,  Argentina  has  had  the  leading  growth 
rate and is regularly paying its debt without turning to 
capital  markets.  I  am  not  going  to  list  all  of  the 
numbers,  but  they  are  very  compelling.  In  2003,  we 
spent 2 per cent of GDP on education and 5 per cent on 
debt payments. Today, Argentina devotes 6.47 per cent 
of its GDP to education and spends 2 per cent to debt 
payment. 

The situation in the world is quite different. Many 
regions and countries have severe problems. Argentina 
does  not  pretend  to  be  a  model  or  an  example  for 
anyone,  but  we  do  wish  to  reaffirm  the  need  to 
formulate  clear  rules  with  regard  to  the  transfer  of 
capital  in  the  area  of  financial  speculation.  Many 
speakers before me, and doubtless many more to come 
will  do  the  same,  have  complained  about  financial 
commodity speculation, especially in the food sector. 

When we compare the growth of global financial 
stocks  to  global  GDP  —  what  all  of  the  citizens  and 
businesses of the world produce in goods and services — it 
becomes  clear  why  we  are  facing  a  world  where 
speculation  is  out  of  control,  careening  from  one  side 
to the other and from one country or region to another, 
affecting  currencies,  economies  and  the  daily  lives  of 
citizens,  destroying  jobs  and  preventing  people  from 
obtaining a dignified education and health care. 

If  we  look  at  the  relationship  between  global 
GDP  and  financial  stocks  in  the  1980s,  we  see  that  it 
was  a  one-to-one  relationship.  There  was  a  financial 
stock that was exactly equal to the goods and services 
being produced by the world. From the 1990s, figures 
skyrocketed.  In  2008  total  financial  stocks,  total 
financial  activity  in  the  world,  reached  3.6  times  the 
global  GDP.  This  meant  a  tremendous  gap  between 
what we produce and what is in what I call the “enter 
key” economy. I call it that because, if we go looking 
A/66/PV.11
for these shares, they are mere keystrokes transferring 
numbers from one place to another, from one currency 
to  another,  producing  unparalleled  market  volatility 
and  recurrent  crises  whereby  exchanges  go  up  and 
down  on  a  daily  basis.  This  not  only  destroys 
thousands  of  jobs  but  also  generates  immense  profits 
that someone is pocketing. 

We would like to reiterate once again, in the light 
of  our  own  experience  —  and  I  reiterate  once  again 
that  I  do  not  want  to  set  up  a  model  —  the  need  for 
multilateral  credit  organizations  to  work  extremely 
hard on regulating the global movement of capital and 
financial speculation. If this does not happen, it will be 
impossible to achieve that ever elusive market stability, 
and  as  a  result,  the  economies  of  both  emerging 
countries,  which  have  been  sustaining  the  growth  of 
the  global  economic  activity,  and  developed  countries 
alike will be overwhelmed. 

It  is  crucial  that  this  message  be  understood, 
because  today  we  may  see  speculation  on  food; 
yesterday, it  was on oil, and tomorrow, it could be on 
little candies, if that would be profitable and beneficial 
to  the  moving  of  this  capital,  which  gets  transferred 
from  one  side  of  the  world  to  the  other  without  any 
control or regulation whatsoever. 

Here I must say that, as a member of the Group of 
20  at  the  London  meeting  —  when  it  was  decided  to 
inject  an  enormous  amount  of  financial  resources  into 
the financial sector that was experiencing problems — 
I  maintained  that  it  was  necessary  to  guarantee  that 
those resources being injected into the financial world 
could  later  return  to  the  real  economy,  the  concrete 
economy, to be able to generate employment, products 
and services.  
Unfortunately,  we  continue  to  find  ourselves  in 

the same situation, because other than the changes that 
I would describe as purely cosmetic, we have gone no 
further with the necessary regulation. 
Moreover,  the  credit  ratings  agencies  —  which 

bear a great deal of the responsibility for much of what 
has  happened  —  rate  Argentina,  for  example,  as  a 
marginal 
they 
categorized  economies  on  the  brink  of  default  higher 
than 
transparent 
regulation  of  the  ratings  agencies  is  needed,  as  they 
bear  a  great  responsibility  for  the  crisis  we  are 
currently  seeing  in  various  regions  —  which  will,  of 
course, have an impact on all countries. 
that  of  Argentina.  Therefore, 
economy.  Until  very 
recently, 
11-50692 

25 

reorganization  and  modification  of 
A/66/PV.11 

It is regrettable that we have been asking for the 

reform, 
the 
multilateral  credit  bodies  for  so  long  now.  Indeed,  we 
believe that this task should already have been begun, 
already formulated, in order to avoid precisely what we 
are  experiencing  now.  For  some  people  it  is  just  a 
matter  of  numbers  on  the  stock  market,  but  for  others 
they signal the destruction of the hopes of a lifetime. 

As  I  was  saying  to  a  colleague  the  other  day 
during  a  visit  to  Europe,  economic  crises  always  end 
up  impacting  the  political  system.  There  cannot  be  a 
serious  economic  crisis,  in  which  millions  of  people 
fall into poverty and lose their jobs, homes, education 
and  health,  without  that  also  signalling  profound 
political 
transformation.  And  when  such  political 
transformation  results  in  further  serious  economic 
crises,  the  result  is  experiences  that  I  will  not  go  into 
now.  Totalitarianism  often  came  out  of  crises.  The 
twentieth  century  produced  crises 
that  were  not 
adequately solved by political means. 

I call once again for the reform of this important 
Organization,  which  represents  multilateralism  — 
something  we  have  always  consistently  defended.  We 
need a more pluralistic and diverse world, and to make 
political  bodies  such  as  the  United  Nations,  and 
crucially the Security Council, more democratic. 

We  do  not  agree  on  the  need  to  expand  the 
number  of  permanent  members;  on  the  contrary,  we 
believe that the permanent member category should be 
eliminated. The right to veto also should be eliminated, 
as it really prevents the Security Council from carrying 
out the true functions that it had in the bipolar world in 
which  it  was  originally  conceived.  At  that  time,  the 
right  to  veto  was  necessary,  because  in  that  bipolar 
world,  with  the  fear  of  a  nuclear  holocaust,  that  right 
gave  to  Council  members  the  balance  necessary  to 
ensure  the  security  of  humankind. Today,  that  balance 
is broken. Permanent seats and the right to veto are not 
about  defending  security  or  universal  stability;  rather, 
they  are  often  about  the  position  of  Council  members 
exercising their right. 

In my most recent statement before the Assembly 
(see A/65/PV.14),  I  believe  I  concluded  by  expressing 
my hope that this year Palestine would be become the 
194th  Member  of  the  concert  of  the  United  Nations. 
My  country,  Argentina,  like  most  South  American 
nations, has recognized the State of Palestine.  
from 
the  scourge  of 

I  sincerely  believe  that  blocking  the  entry  of 
Palestine could perhaps be seen by some as benefiting 
the  State  of  Israel.  But  allow  me  to  say  to Assembly 
members,  on  the  authority  we  have  as  a  country  that 
has  suffered 
international 
terrorism,  that  to  prevent  Palestine  from  becoming  a 
member of this Assembly means to continue providing 
alibis  to  those  who  engage  in  international  terrorism 
and  who  in  that  repudiation  find  precisely  one  of  the 
false arguments they use to justify their crimes.  

I  believe  that  the  non-inclusion  of  Palestine  this 
year,  far  from  providing  greater  security  and  stability 
in  the  world,  will  bring  about  greater  insecurity  and 
conditions that are utterly unfavourable to what should 
be  the  prestige  of  a  body  that  should  represent  the 
interests of all citizens of the world. 

For  that  reason,  I  ask  that  God  will  enlighten 
those  who  must  make  this  historic  and  structural 
decision  of  global  significance  so  that  greater  balance 
can be achieved and so that this year Palestine will be 
able  to  take  its  seat  number  194.  I  am  sure  that  if  we 
succeed  in  that  endeavour  we  will  help  to  create  a 
world that is not only safer, but more just. 

I would like to make another point, one linked to 
the situation that we have been describing, with regard 
to  what 
injustice  of  certain 
countries —  five,  to  be  exact  —  on  the  Security 
Council having veto rights. Once again, we have come 
to the heart of the United Nations to raise an issue that 
is just as vital, and not only to Argentines.  
The  question  of  sovereignty  over  the  Malvinas 

Islands is  also a trial by  fire for this body in terms of 
whether it is possible for it to comply with a policy that 
is essentially multilateral and under which all members 
are obliged to accept the resolutions of this Assembly.  

Ten  General  Assembly  resolutions  have  invited 
the  United  Kingdom  and  my  country  to  sit  down  to 
negotiate  and  discuss  our  sovereignty.  Bear  in  mind 
that Argentina is not asking for those resolutions to be 
implemented  in  terms  of  recognizing  sovereignty.  No, 
it  is  simply  asking  for  compliance  with  some  of  the 
provisions of the 10 United Nations resolutions on the 
matter.  

Perhaps  we  could  also  list  the  29  resolutions  of 
the  Special  Political  and  Decolonization  Committee 
and  the  11  resolutions  and  8  declarations  of  the 
Organization  of  American  States,  as  well  as  the 
is  shown  by 
the 
26 

11-50692 


resolutions  of  various  forums  —  Ibero-American 
forums,  the  Union  of  South  American  Nations,  the 
Common  Market  of  the  South,  meetings  of  the  Arab 
and African countries — and the entire world. Through 
such  resolutions  and  declarations,  all  of  them  have 
been  demanding  that  this  issue  be  addressed.  The 
United  Kingdom  has  systematically  refused  to  do  so 
and  has  obviously  used  its  status  as  a  veto-wielding 
member of the Security Council to that end.  

The year 2013 will mark the passage of 180 years 
since  the  Argentines  were  expelled  by  force  of  arms 
from  our  Malvinas  Islands.  Next  year  will  mark 
30 years  since  an  incident  —  which  the  United 
Kingdom took advantage of — that was committed by 
the most terrible dictatorship in memory, of which we 
Argentines were ourselves victims.  

I am proud to be the Government that has set an 
example for the world in terms of human rights and the 
prosecution of those responsible for committing crimes 
and  acts  of  genocide.  That  is  why  I  believe  that 
focusing  on  that  incident  is  nothing  other  than  one  of 
the many excuses given to justify non-compliance with 
United Nations resolutions. What is worse, I ask all of 
those  who  see  themselves  in  the  mirror  of  a  future 
world in which natural resources will be necessary, to 
see  how  our  natural  resources,  our  fisheries  and  our 
petroleum  resources,  are  being  stolen  and  illegally 
seized by those who have no right to do so. Obviously, 
I do not feel it necessary to emphasize the fact that no 
one can lay claim to an overseas territory that is more 
than 14,000 kilometres away. That is clearly an illegal 
occupation. 

Once again, we call upon the United Kingdom to 
comply  with  the  resolutions  of  the  United  Nations. 
Recently, 
there  have  been  genuine  provocations, 
including  missile  tests  in  May  and  July,  which  were 
denounced 
International  Maritime 
Organization, which also suffered one of those attacks. 
Once  again,  I  reiterate  to  this  Assembly  and  to  the 
United  Kingdom Argentina’s  interest  in  dialogue.  It  is 
true  that  much  time  has  passed,  however.  We  state 
here,  before  this  Assembly,  that  we  will  wait  for  a 
reasonable period of time, but if nothing transpires, we 
will  be  forced  to  begin  reviewing  the  provisional 
understandings that are still in effect. We emphasize in 
particular  that  the  question  of  sovereignty  must  be 
included in those understandings.  
before 
the 
A/66/PV.11

Members may ask what I am referring to here. It 
is the joint statement and exchange of letters of 14 July 
1999  on  resuming  a  regular  weekly  LAN  Chile  flight 
between  Punta  Arenas  and  the  Malvinas  Islands  with 
two  monthly  stopovers,  one  in  each  direction,  in  Río 
Gallegos. 

Argentina  has  no  intention  of  exacerbating  the 
situation  for  any  party,  but  it  is  also  fair  that  this 
Assembly and the United Kingdom be aware that there 
must  be  compliance  with  the  resolutions.  We  cannot 
wait 180 years, or 30 years, just as Palestine cannot be 
making pilgrimages over the decades to find a place in 
the world. Still less can the Argentines wait to reclaim 
the territory that legitimately belongs to us.  

I  cannot  conclude  without  referring  to  an  issue 
that  has  been  mentioned  in  all  of  the  statements  that 
President  Kirchner  and  I  have  delivered  here  since 
2003.  A  few  moments  ago,  when  I  spoke  of  the 
question  of  Palestine,  my  authority  to  do  so  —  if 
indeed it gives us authority, as such — is derived from 
the fact that we are one of the only two countries in the 
Americas  that  have  been  the  target  of  international 
terrorism.  

This  happened  on  two  occasions.  In  1992,  there 
was  the  explosion  at  the  Israeli  Embassy  in  Buenos 
Aires, and in 1994, there was the blast at the Argentine 
Israelite  Mutual Association  (AMIA),  which  is  one  of 
the most important mutual associations in Argentina. I 
stress not that it is a Jewish association, but that it is an 
Argentine association. This was an attack on Argentina.  

I am demanding, on the basis of the requirements 
of Argentine  justice,  that  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran 
submit to the legal authority and in particular allow for 
those  who  have  been  accused  of  some  level  of 
participation  in  the  AMIA  attack  to  be  brought  to 
justice.  

Last  year,  we  proposed  here  that  if  they  did  not 
trust  our  country’s  justice  system,  we  could  take  the 
approach  that  was  taken  for  the  Lockerbie  case:  we 
could  choose  a  court  from  a  third  country,  by  mutual 
agreement, in order for that court to be able to provide 
the only thing that we are demanding — that is, justice. 
We  insist  on  this  because  it  is  a  universal  demand.  It 
does not have to do with political positions. This word, 
justice, is in the Talmud, the Bible and the Koran, and, 
for those who do not believe in anything, I am sure it is 
in their country’s constitution.  
11-50692 

27 

A/66/PV.11 


The  Government  of  Argentina  received,  on 
16 July,  a  message  from  the  Foreign  Ministry  of  Iran 
stating  that  it  intended  to  cooperate  in  initiating  a 
constructive  dialogue  with  Argentina  in  order  to  help 
us  get  at  the  truth  with  respect  to  the  brutal  attack 
against  the  Argentine  Israelite  Mutual  Association  of 
18 July 1994. The message that we received from Iran, 
although signifying a change of attitude on the part of 
the Government, does not satisfy our demands, which, 
as I said quite clearly, are for justice.  

However, it is an offer of dialogue that Argentina 
cannot  and  must  not  reject.  We  are  here  calling  for 
dialogue with the United Kingdom and dialogue among 
all the parties that make up this body. My country does 
this  on  the  basis  of  its  commitment  to  fulfilling  its 
obligation  to  resolve  controversies  through  peaceful 
means.  This  attitude  has  characterized  our  country 
throughout  our  history.  This  means  that  in  one  sense, 
Argentina must put aside the requirements arising from 
our national justice system with respect to prosecuting 
the  presumed  perpetrators  of  these  attacks.  In  another 
sense,  we  cannot  do  this,  as  this  is  up  to  judges  and 
public prosecutors.  

What  we  would  like  to  say,  however,  is  that  we 
think that this dialogue must be constructive. It must be 
a sincere dialogue and must achieve results in order to 
be  credible  and  therefore  not  be  understood  as  just  a 
delay tactic or a distraction. 

I will conclude my statement. Sometimes, I think 
of  everything  that  has  happened  to Argentines.  These 
things  have  happened  to  many  countries  at  various 
times, but they have all happened to us, in our country, 
during  our  history.  We  have  had  the  worst  economic 
and  social  disaster  in  living  memory.  We  still  have 
today  a  Power  exercising  a  colonial  influence  in  our 
country.  International  terrorism  has  twice  made  us  the 
target of its attacks. So, if we think of it, it is as if all of 
the  problems  and  all  of  the  tragedies  and  miseries  of 
this world decided to focus on one single country.  

Our capacity to recover, in terms of the economy, 
our  tireless  and  never-ending  fight  to  recover  what  is 
ours,  our  never-ending  demand  for  justice  for  the 
victims  of  the  attacks,  and  the  strength  that  we  have 
drawn  from  all  of 
the 
confidence  and  certainty  that  this  is  the  path  we  have 
chosen:  that  of  achieving  growth  along  with  social 
inclusion  for  our  fellow  citizens.  It  is  the  path  of 
ensuring  that  there  is  unlimited  respect  for  human 
tragedies  give  me 
these 
trials  carried  out  for 
rights,  with 
the  sake  of 
remembrance,  truth  and  justice.  It  is  the  path  that 
ensures that today, as the President of all Argentines, I 
can  be  accompanied  here  by  family  members  of 
victims of the AMIA attack. They have confidence that 
the Government will continue to do what it has always 
done, which is to defend the values of truth and justice.  

That  is  what  gives  me  great  hope  that  God  will 
shed  light  on  the  path  of  all  those  who  have  to  make 
decisions, not with a view to elections but with a view 
to the destiny of the world in upcoming decades. That 
is  why  I  would  like  to  greet  everyone  today  who  has 
taken the floor or who will take the floor and thank the 
entire  Assembly  for  the  support  that  they  have  each 
given,  in  all  of  these  causes,  to  my  country,  the 
Argentine Republic.  
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the Argentine  Republic  for  the  statement  she  has  just 
made. 

Ms.  Cristina  Fernández,  President  of 
Argentine  Republic,  was  escorted 
from 
General Assembly Hall.  
the 
the 


the 
the 
Address by General Michel Sleiman, President of the 
Lebanese Republic 
The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Lebanese Republic. 

General  Michel  Sleiman,  President  of 
Lebanese  Republic,  was  escorted 
into 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  General  Michel 
Sleiman,  President  of  the  Lebanese  Republic,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly.  
President Sleiman (spoke in Arabic): First of all, 

I would like to congratulate you, Sir, on your election 
as President of the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth 
session,  especially  since  you  represent  a  brotherly 
country  that  has  constantly  shown  solidarity  with 
Lebanon  and  has  played  a  key  role  in  advancing 
agreement  and  mutual  understanding  in  the  Doha 
Agreement  and  in  Lebanon’s  reconstruction.  I  do  this 
hoping 
to 
that  our  deliberations  will  contribute 
28 

11-50692 
is 
the 
strives 
the  message  of 


shedding  light  on  rightful  causes  and  buttressing  the 
logic of justice. 

This year’s General Assembly is held in a context 
dominated  by  major  Arab  developments  and 
the 
rightful Palestinian endeavour for the State of Palestine 
to be recognized and to obtain full membership in the 
United Nations. In addition, there are other issues such 
as  the  persistent  tensions  on  the  Korean  peninsula, 
natural  disasters  that  threaten  different  parts  of  the 
world  and  the  persistence  of  the  phenomenon  of 
terrorism as we commemorate the tenth anniversary of 
the 11 September attacks, which we strongly condemn. 

I stand before the General Assembly today as the 
representative of a country that since its inception has 
carried 
freedom,  concord  and 
moderation.  Lebanon 
to  consecrate  and 
consolidate that message, in spite of the challenges and 
threats,  both  in  the  East  and  the  West,  to  models  of 
coexistence  and  cultural  diversity.  In  accordance  with 
its  Constitution,  Lebanon 
“a  parliamentary 
democratic republic based on respect for civil liberties, 
especially 
freedom  of  opinion  and  belief”. 
Moreover, “[t]he people are the source of authority and 
sovereignty;  they  shall  exercise  these  powers  through 
the constitutional institutions”.  

Indeed,  Lebanon  has  committed  itself  to  those 
principles,  to  the  devolution  of  power  and  to  the 
participation  of  all  religious  communities 
the 
management of public affairs, in spite of the wars and 
aggression  it  has  suffered  over  decades.  Moreover, 
Lebanon  has  always  been  committed  to  respecting 
legitimate 
international  decisions  and  resolutions, 
including those of the Special Tribunal for Lebanon, as 
the  ministerial  statements  of  the  successive  Lebanese 
Cabinets have asserted. 

Over  the  past  months,  the  Arab  region  has 
witnessed events and mass popular movements calling 
for  freedom,  democracy  and  the  establishment  of  the 
rule of law, rejecting authoritarianism, favouritism and 
corruption.  Lebanese  intellectuals,  members  of  the 
media and activists have championed and laboured for 
every  movement  of  reawakening  in  the  Levant,  to 
make the region a beacon of revitalization. Along with 
them,  Lebanon  welcomes  any  peaceful  approach  or 
means  to  achieve  reform,  to  consecrate  the  principles 
of  democracy,  justice  and  modernity  and  to  preserve 
human dignity and fundamental freedoms.  
in 
A/66/PV.11
itself  sufficient 

Only  through  those  principles  and  systems  can 
security and peace for all segments of our societies be 
achieved  and  an  environment  conducive  to  sound 
human  development  be  ensured.  We  must  respond  to 
the recent upwellings and changes in the Arab world in 
such a way that they serve its common good, foster its 
progress  and  dignity  and  prevent  it  from  veering 
towards extremism, chaos, fragmentation and religious 
or sectarian division. 

At  the  same  time,  it  must  be  brought  to  the 
attention of the international community that the wave 
of  popular  protest  that  has  arisen  in  some  Arab 
countries  cannot  be  perceived  as  stemming  simply 
from demands to improve living conditions. Therefore, 
allocating  funds 
to  support  economic  and  social 
development in Arab countries undergoing transition is 
not  by 
to  promote  democracy, 
moderation  and  openness.  Indeed,  means  should  be 
explored to dispel feelings of injustice and oppression 
rankling in the hearts of Arab peoples, who have been 
marginalized  for  decades, 
their  development  and 
growth impeded by Israeli practices and threats, on one 
hand, and by their exclusion from the tide of modernity 
and globalization, on the other.  

Any such approaches require serious, determined 
efforts  —  within  the  framework  of  an  integrated 
process — to impose a just and comprehensive solution 
to all aspects of the conflict in the Middle East, based 
on  international  resolutions,  the  Madrid  terms  of 
reference  and  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  in  all  its 
provisions. That would lay the foundation for a broader 
dialogue  and  understanding  between  the  East  and  the 
West  and  among  civilizations,  cultures  and  religions. 
Such  an  understanding  is  historically  overdue,  after 
decades  marked  by  feelings  of  injustice  and  hostility, 
destructive wars and missed opportunities. 

In  that  connection,  it  is  important  to  underscore 
the  right  and  just  Palestinian  effort  to  earn  full 
recognition  of  the  State  of  Palestine  and  for  its  full 
membership in the United Nations, in accordance with 
the  right  to  self-determination.  Lebanon  will  work  for 
the success of those efforts, with the coordination and 
cooperation  of  brotherly  and 
friendly  countries. 
However,  recognition  of  the  Palestinian  State  and  its 
accession 
though  greatly 
important,  would  neither  restore  full  rights  to  the 
Palestinians  nor  represent  a  final  solution  to  the 
Palestinian question. 
the  United  Nations, 
to 
11-50692 

29 

in 
(UNRWA) 
the  Near  East 
A/66/PV.11 


Until  a  final  and  just  political  solution  to  the 
question  of  Palestine  is  reached  —  one  guaranteeing 
the  Palestinian  refugees’  right  of  return  —  the  United 
Nations  Relief  and  Works  Agency  for  Palestine 
Refugees 
remains 
responsible  for  the  relief  of  Palestinian  refugees,  in 
cooperation  with  the  host  countries.  Along  with  our 
Palestinian  brothers,  Lebanon  rejects  any  form  of 
permanent settlement of those refugees. For that reason 
the  UNRWA  budget  must  be  constantly  maintained. 
The  Agency  must  not  be  merged  with  other  United 
Nations bodies, which would weaken its capacity. 

In  another  context,  Lebanon  has  recognized  the 
Libyan  National  Transitional  Council,  and  it  expects 
Libyan  officials,  with  whom  it  is  communicating  for 
this purpose, to uncover the fate of Imam Musa al-Sadr 
and his two companions, who were made to disappear 
in Libya during an official visit in 1978. 

A  few  days  ago,  Lebanon  hosted  the  Second 
Meeting of States Parties to the Convention on Cluster 
Munitions,  which  concluded  with  the  2011  Beirut 
Declaration.  That  was  a  defining  moment  in  the 
implementation  of 
the  Convention.  Humanitarian 
considerations are at the heart of international concern 
about  cluster  munitions.  The  Meeting  highlighted  the 
terrible  human  fallout  of  those  weapons,  which  were 
used  heavily  by  Israel  during  its  aggression  of  July 
2006. To this day, those weapons threaten civilians on 
their  farmlands  and  innocent  children  at  play  in  open 
fields in South Lebanon.  

Israel  should  be  condemned  for  its  use  of  those 
weapons,  and  appropriate  compensation  should  be 
demanded for the extensive property damage and harm 
to  people  it  has  caused  Lebanon  with  those  weapons. 
Israel  should  compensate  as  well  for  the  overall 
damage  caused  by  its  repeated  aggression  against 
Lebanon, including damage caused by the oil slick that 
resulted  from  the  Israeli  bombardment  of  the  Jiyeh 
Power Station in the summer of 2006. 

On  the  fifth  anniversary  of  the  adoption  of 
Security  Council  resolution  1701  (2006),  Lebanon 
reiterates its commitment to persevere in implementing 
that  resolution.  Lebanon  calls  once  again  on  the 
international  community  to  bring  pressure  to  bear  on 
Israel  to  abide  by  all  its  provisions.  Those  provisions 
require  Israel  to  halt  its  daily  violations  of  Lebanese 
sovereignty  and 
from 
Lebanese territories that it still occupies in the northern 
to  withdraw 
immediately 
laid  out 
territorial  waters  and 
rights.  Specifically,  we 
raised  particular  objections 
part  of  Al-Ghajar  village,  the  Shaba’a  farms  and  the 
hills of Kfar Shouba. Furthermore, Israel must cease its 
persistent threats against Lebanon and its infrastructure 
and  its  endeavours  to  destabilize  the  country  through 
its  spying  networks  and 
recruitment  of  agents. 
Meanwhile,  we  maintain  our  right  to  liberate  or 
retrieve  all  of  our  occupied  territories  through  all 
legitimate available means. 

On the other hand, we emphasize that we strongly 
uphold our full sovereign and economic rights over our 
territorial waters and exclusive economic zone and our 
freedom  to  exploit  our  natural  resources,  be  they  on 
land  or  in  the  deep  sea,  free  from  any  designs  or 
threats.  

We  have  addressed  to  the  Secretary-General  an 
extensive correspondence setting out the boundaries of 
legitimacy  of  our 
our 
territorial 
the 
geographic  coordinates  of  the  southern  and  south-
western  borders  of  Lebanon’s  exclusive  economic 
zone.  We 
to  Israeli 
violations  and  aggression  that  violate  those  rights. 
Furthermore,  as  we  warned  against  any  initiative  to 
exploit  the  resources  of  the  disputed  maritime  zones, 
we asked the Secretary-General to take all measures he 
deems appropriate to avoid any conflict. 

I would like to take this opportunity to commend 
the crucial role in south Lebanon of the United Nations 
Interim  Force  in  Lebanon  (UNIFIL)  carried  out  in 
coordination  and  full  cooperation  with  the  Lebanese 
Army. I would also like to commend the dedication of 
UNIFIL  commanders  and  staff  in  carrying  out  the 
mission  they  have  been  entrusted  with,  as  well  as  the 
immense  sacrifices  they  have  made  in  the  service  of 
peace. 

that  have 
contributed  military  personnel  and  material  for  their 
continued commitment, in spite of the challenges they 
have encountered, we also firmly condemn the terrorist 
attacks  in  recent  months  on  international  forces, 
particularly  the  French  and  Italian  battalions.  We  are 
working earnestly to pursue the perpetrators and bring 
them  to  justice  and  to  prevent  any  recurrence  of  such 
incidents. 

The  United  Nations  has  played  an  ever-growing 
role in maintaining international peace and security and 
in  intervening  to  resolve  disputes  in  many  troubled 
regions  of  the  world.  So  far,  however,  it  has  been 
those  countries 
While  we 
the 
thank 
30 

11-50692 
and 
be 
of 
capable 
ensuring 


unable to show effectiveness in the Middle East, where 
grave  dangers  still  threaten  international  peace  and 
security  as  a  result  of  Israel’s  ongoing  defiance  of 
resolutions of international legitimacy; its unacceptable 
rejection  of  the  basic  conditions  required  for  peace; 
and  its  persistence  in  conducting  abusive  practices  in 
Gaza  and  the  occupied  territories,  such  as  the  illegal 
construction  of  settlements  and  violations  of  human 
rights. 

This  demands  that  negotiations  on  reform  of  the 
Security Council come to  fruition, so that the Council 
can be brought more into line with the new geopolitical 
situation 
the 
implementation of its binding resolutions. 

In  conclusion,  as  we  celebrate  the  centenary  of 
International  Women’s  Day  this  year,  we  must  take 
greater advantage of the potential and talents of half of 
humankind,  rather  than  merely  seeking  to  enshrine 
gender  equality  in  principle.  Women  are  making  an 
enormous  contribution  to  raising  and  educating  the 
younger  generation,  promoting  peace, 
reducing 
poverty, 
environmental 
degradation,  and  promoting  sustainable  development 
opportunities. 

Mr. Ramgoolam (Mauritius), Vice-President, took 
the Chair. 
The  general  debate 
the  Assembly 
is  an 

occasion  for  all  of  us  to  renew  the  vows  we  made  in 
1945  in  order  to  address  the  challenges  and  crises 
facing  us  —  by  working  through  institutions  of 
international 
collective 
solutions, in conformity with the basic principles of the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  its  resolutions  and  the 
provisions  of  international  law,  provided  that  they  are 
based  on  the  spirit  of  justice  and  avoid  double 
standards. History has taught us that this choice is the 
one and only reasonable solution. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
Lebanese Republic for the statement he has just made. 
Mr.  Michel  Sleiman,  President  of  the  Lebanese 

Republic,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
legitimacy 
hunger, 
disease 
and 
agreed 
from 
and 
in 

11-50692 

A/66/PV.11

Address by Mr. Lee Myung-bak, President of the 
Republic of Korea 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Korea. 

Mr. Lee Myung-bak, President of the Republic of 
Korea,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Lee Myung-bak, President 
of the Republic of Korea, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly. 
President  Lee  Myung-bak  (spoke  in  Korean; 

interpretation provided by the delegation): I would like 
to  begin  by  extending  my  sincere  congratulations  to 
Ambassador  Al-Nasser  on  his  assumption  of  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth 
session.  I  have  every  confidence  that  under  his  able 
leadership  this  session  will  be  guided  to  a  fruitful 
conclusion. 
May  I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  extend  my 

warmest  congratulations  to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon on his re-election as Secretary-General of the 
United Nations, with unanimous support from Member 
States, and to thank him for the great commitment and 
devotion  he  has  shown  over  the  past  five  years  to 
achieving the vision of a responsible United Nations. I 
have no doubt that in his second term he will make an 
even greater contribution to creating a stronger United 
Nations for a better world. 
This year marks the twentieth anniversary of the 

Republic  of  Korea’s  membership 
the  United 
Nations.  It  would  be  no  exaggeration  to  say  that  the 
Republic of Korea came into the world with the United 
Nations  and  grew  up  along  with  the  Organization.  It 
was under United Nations auspices that the democratic 
Government of the Republic of Korea was established 
in  1948. Through  a  General Assembly  resolution  (195 
(III)), the Government of the Republic of Korea gained 
international 
lawful 
Government  on  the  Korean  peninsula.  When  the 
Korean War broke out two years later, United Nations 
forces played a decisive role in defending the country. 
In  the  aftermath  of  the  war  and  during  the  years  of 
national reconstruction, the United Nations provided us 
with generous economic assistance and the concept of 
recognition 
only 
the 
as 
in 
31 

A/66/PV.11 

universal  human  rights,  thus  promoting  progress  on 
both the economic and democratic fronts. 

In  spite  of  such  special  historic  ties  between  the 
United Nations and the Republic of Korea, it was only 
with  the  end  of  the  Cold  War,  in  1991,  more  than 
40 years later, that the Republic of Korea was admitted 
to  the  United  Nations.  For  the  past  20  years,  the 
Republic of Korea has made every effort to realize the 
causes  and  values  of  the  United  Nations.  We  have 
played  an  active  role  in  various  areas  of  international 
cooperation, including the global fight against poverty, 
sustainable  development,  the  promotion  of  human 
rights  and  democracy,  and 
the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. 

The  Republic  of  Korea  began  its  journey  as  one 
of  the  poorest  countries  in  the  world,  engulfed  in  war 
and  poverty,  and  has  managed  to  achieve  remarkable 
success on both the economic and democratic fronts. It 
may  therefore  be  rightly  said  that  the  Republic  of 
Korea is an exemplary international success story, fully 
embracing  and  reflecting  the  values  espoused  by  the 
United  Nations,  be  they  those  relating  to  democracy, 
human rights or development. 

Now  the  Republic  of  Korea  wishes  to  give  back 
to  the  international  community  even  more  than  it  has 
received.  We  stand  ready  to  extend  a  helping  hand  to 
those in need, providing them with appropriate support 
and  care.  We  are  keen  to  cooperate  closely  with  the 
United  Nations  and  to  play  a  constructive  role  in 
combating 
the 
international community. 

Maintaining  international  peace  and  security  is 
the  fundamental  responsibility  of  the  United  Nations. 
For  the  past  60  years,  the  United  Nations  has  made 
every  effort  to  prevent  war  and  armed  conflict  in  the 
international arena. Furthermore, it has provided varied 
and  creative  means  for  maintaining  sustainable  peace 
in  dangerous  parts  of  the  world,  from  preventive 
diplomacy 
post-conflict 
peacebuilding.  The  most  striking  example  may  be  in 
the  advancement  of  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations.  There  has  been  an  increase  in  demand  for 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  since  the  end 
of the Cold War. As a result, not only has there been an 
increase  in  the  number  of  personnel,  but  the  work  of 
the  operations  has  also  become  more  diverse  and 
multifaceted,  extending  beyond  the  monitoring  of 
ceasefires to assisting in nation-building. 
peacekeeping 
the  various 
challenges 
facing 
and 
to 
the 
international 
to  achieve  political  objectives  by 

Peacekeeping  operations  offer  great  hope  for 
millions  of  those  who  suffer  in  the  midst  of  war  and 
natural  disasters.  The  Republic  of  Korea  is  proud  to 
participate 
in  10  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
missions, including those in Haiti and Lebanon. 

Today,  while  still  struggling  with  conventional 
security threats, the international community faces new 
types of security threats, such as the spread of weapons 
of  mass  destruction  (WMDs)  and 
threat  of 
terrorism.  The 
community  must 
strengthen  its  non-proliferation  regime  in  order  to 
prevent  the  proliferation  of  nuclear,  biological  and 
chemical weapons and long-range missiles. 

Furthermore, the threat of transnational terrorism 
has  emerged  as  a  serious  security  issue  that  requires 
concerted  effort  from  the  international  community,  in 
particular  since  the  attacks  of  9/11.  The  Republic  of 
Korea  stands  firmly  against,  and  condemns  all  forms 
and  manifestations  of,  terrorism.  Terrorism,  a  vicious 
means 
taking 
innocent  civilian  lives,  cannot  be  justified  under  any 
circumstances.  The 
international  community  must 
reaffirm  its  determination  to  eradicate  terrorism  and 
step up its collective counter-terrorism efforts. 

The greatest threat of all, perhaps, emanates from 
nuclear  terrorism.  International  cooperation  is  now 
needed more than ever to prevent it. Following the first 
Nuclear  Security  Summit  in  Washington,  D.C.,  last 
year, the second such summit will be held in Seoul in 
March  2012.  The  Republic  of  Korea  is  making  every 
effort  to  ensure  that  the  Summit  will  constitute  a 
valuable  opportunity  for  the  international  community 
to  build  a  more  solid  system  of 
international 
cooperation,  which  is  necessary  to  prevent  nuclear 
terrorism. 

international  community  has 
witnessed a wave of dramatic changes sweeping across 
North  Africa  and  the  Middle  East.  The  democratic 
movement  that  began  in  Tunisia,  which  then  swiftly 
spread to Egypt and Libya, has proved that democracy 
is  a  universal  value  of  humankind  that  transcends 
region and culture. At this very moment, the people of 
Syria and Yemen are taking great risks to hold aloft the 
torch of freedom and democracy. 

Democracy  is  a  vehicle  that  unites  the  basic 
values  of  humankind,  such  as  freedom  and  equality, 
human rights and the rule of law. The people’s demand 
right.  The 
for  democracy 
This  year, 
legitimate 
their 
the 
is 
32 

11-50692 
a 
In 
the 
constitutes 
foundation 
Democracy 
twenty-first  century, 


international  community  and  the  United  Nations  must 
do all they can to protect these people from persecution 
and human rights abuses. 

United Nations efforts have played a great role in 
the  recent  democratic  progress  in  Africa.  The  United 
Nations  facilitated  the  birth  of  the  Republic  of  South 
Sudan  through  peaceful  referendum,  and  played  a 
crucial  role  in  the  progress  of  democracy  in  Côte 
d’Ivoire by realizing the transfer of power. 

Nevertheless,  as  history  has  only  too  clearly 
shown,  building  democracy  is  no  easy  task.  It  is 
important  that  fledgling  economies  in  many  parts  of 
the world become sustainable and robust. Above all, it 
is essential that these nations form stable Governments 
through  elections  and  achieve  economic  development. 
The United Nations must be there for them. 

for 
sustainable  national  development.  For  the  Republic  of 
Korea,  economic  growth  and  democratization  have 
been achieved in a mutually reinforcing manner.  

this  age  of 
globalization  and  communication  revolution,  the  tide 
of  democratization  is  unstoppable  regardless  of  a 
nation’s economic standing.  

I  believe  that  a  vibrant  economy  will  push 
forward  economic  growth  in  all  corners  of  the  world. 
To  assist  developing  nations  pursue  both  democracy 
and  economic  growth  is  indeed  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations. 
The  market  economy  and  democracy  have 

enabled humankind to fulfil the desire for a better life, 
along  with  the  values  of  freedom  and  individual 
happiness. However, the growing gap between rich and 
poor,  which  unfortunately  accompanies  today’s  highly 
developed  market  economy,  calls  for  self-reflection 
vis-à-vis  the  capitalist  system  and  greater  public 
responsibility. 
The  growing  gap  between  developed  and 

developing countries should not only be addressed as a 
poverty  issue,  but  should  also  be  understood  as  a 
potential  destabilizing  element  to  international  peace. 
Furthermore,  this  inequality  stands  against  the  global 
vision  of  achieving  common  prosperity 
for  all 
humankind. 

It  is  only  when  members  of  the  international 
community  share  each  other’s  burden  and  work 
in 
A/66/PV.11
that 
trade, 
including 
the  development  of 
in  developing  countries, 
together in a mutually complementary manner towards 
a  common  goal  that  the  eco-systemic  development  of 
the  world  can  be  achieved.  Developed  nations  must 
help  developing  countries  to  maximize  their  capacity 
so 
they  can  achieve  economic  growth  and 
development on their own. To that end, it is important 
to  foster  a  global  atmosphere  that  is  conducive  to 
supporting 
investment, 
finance and human resources in developing countries. 

International  aid  must  focus  on,  and  provide 
support  to,  areas  that  form  the  basis  of  economic 
development 
such  as 
infrastructure  and  trade-related  capacity  building.  At 
the same time, efforts must be made to  strengthen the 
role  of  multilateral  organizations, 
the 
International  Monetary  Fund  and  the  World  Bank,  in 
development  assistance.  Such  efforts  should  be 
grounded  in  the  sincere  belief  that  the  growth  of 
developing  countries  will  provide  a  valuable  growth 
engine  for  all,  including  developed  countries,  by 
expanding global demand as a whole. 

Through  the  global  financial  crisis  in  2008,  we 
have come to realize once again that we live in a highly 
interconnected  world. A  financial  crisis  that  started  in 
one place became global in an instant. No country was 
spared  from  the  bitter  sting  of  economic  crisis.  In  the 
face  of  the  crisis,  the  Group  of  Twenty  (G-20),  a 
mechanism  that  brings  together  both  developed  and 
developing nations, was created.  

The  Seoul  Development  Consensus  for  Shared 
Growth, which was adopted last year at the G-20 Seoul 
Summit,  and  the  G-20  multi-year  action  plan  outline 
specific  measures  to  realize  growth  that  embraces 
developing  countries  as  partners. As  a  member  of  the 
G-20,  the  Republic  of  Korea  will  faithfully  and 
actively implement those measures. 

The  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs), 
championed  by  the  United  Nations,  constitute  another 
important  agenda  that  pursues  shared  growth  between 
developed and developing nations. The Government of 
the  Republic  of  Korea  will  be  an  active  participant  in 
international  development  cooperation  as  pursued  by 
the  MDGs.  We  will  faithfully  implement  our  plan  to 
double  our  current  level  of  official  development 
assistance by 2015 and, drawing wisdom from our past 
experience, will assist developing countries in ways to 
build capacity to achieve genuine growth on their own. 
11-50692 

33 

The  cost  of  reckless  economic  growth 
A/66/PV.11 


I  hope  that  the  fourth  High-Level  Forum  on Aid 
Effectiveness  to  be  held  in  Busan  in  November  this 
year  will  provide  a  valuable  opportunity  to  set  a  new 
global  cooperation  paradigm  and  partnership 
to 
effectively  address  new  changes  and  challenges  in 
international development cooperation. 

that 
ignores  environmental  warnings  will  be  beyond 
imagination. The rise in the Earth’s temperature due to 
greenhouse  gas  emissions  has  caused  abnormal 
climatic  phenomena.  Ecosystem  damage  due  to  the 
greenhouse  effect 
is  causing  enormous  economic 
damage in various parts of the world. 

To  protect  our  environment  and  promote  growth 
at the same time, we must use less fossil fuel and more 
renewable  energy,  while  promoting  the  safer  use  of 
nuclear  energy.  Green  technology  devoted  to  meeting 
these  goals  will  create  more  jobs  for  people  and  will 
enable  us  to  attain  sustainable  economic  growth  in 
decades to come. 

Having  designated  “green  growth”  as  a  national 
growth  paradigm  in  2008,  the  Republic  of  Korea  has 
been  actively  pursuing  this  goal.  The  Republic  of 
Korea  was  the  first  country  in  the  world  to  introduce 
the Framework Act on Low Carbon, Green Growth. We 
are  also  investing  2  per  cent  of  our  national  gross 
development product in green sectors every year. 

Another  important  development  was  the  launch 
of  the  Global  Green  Growth  Institute,  which  was 
founded  by  the  Republic  of  Korea  along  with  like-
minded  countries.  The  aim  of  the  Institute  is  to  share 
cutting-edge  green  technology  and  experience  with 
developing countries. In so doing, developing countries 
will  be  able  to  join  in  the  global  green  growth 
attain 
movement 
and 
economic 
environmental  protection 
together  as  one  global 
community. 

The  United  Nations  shall  have  a  more  important 
role  than  ever  to  play  in  restoring  the  equilibrium  in 
the  global  ecosystem  and  promoting  shared  growth  in 
the international community. In this regard, I welcome 
the  inclusion  of  “Green  economy  in  the  context  of 
sustainable development and poverty eradication” as a 
main theme of the 2012 United Nations Conference on 
Sustainable  Development.  I 
the 
Conference  producing  a  solid  vision  and  action  plan 
towards  economically,  socially  and  environmentally 
sustainable development. 
look  forward 
growth 
and 
to 
in 
the 
challenges 
cooperation  with 

The North Korean nuclear threat poses significant 
challenges  to  peace  on  the  Korean  peninsula,  North-
East  Asia  and  beyond.  Over  the  past  20  years,  the 
Republic  of  Korea  has  made  consistent  diplomatic 
efforts, 
international 
community,  to  achieve  the  denuclearization  of  the 
Korean peninsula and will continue to do so. 

In  the  twenty-first  century,  we  must  first  work 
together if we wish to attain peace and prosperity. This 
is  a  historical  trend  in  which  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea must take part. It is my hope to see 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  enjoy 
peace  and  prosperity  by  becoming  a  responsible 
member  of  the  international  community.  When  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  chooses  the 
path to mutual benefit and common prosperity, we will 
be  ready  to  assist  in  that  endeavour  along  with  the 
international community. I sincerely hope that this will 
transform the Korean peninsula from a place of conflict 
and  strife  into  a  bedrock  of  peace  in  North-East Asia 
and the world. 
Today, humankind faces a range of unprecedented 

transnational 
closer 
international  cooperation  than  ever  before.  At  this 
historic moment, the United Nations will have a greater 
responsibility and role to play. 

Over  the  60  years  since  the  establishment  of  the 
United Nations, the dynamics of international relations 
have been fundamentally and structurally transformed. 
To meet the new demands of the times and address the 
diverse  challenges  of  the  future,  the  United  Nations 
should constantly strive to renew and reinvent itself. In 
particular, the Security Council should be reformed to 
become  more  democratic  and  accountable  in  order  to 
fulfil  its  mandate  of  maintaining  international  peace 
and security. The Republic of Korea has been actively 
participating 
in  discussions  on  Security  Council 
reform.  We  will  continue  to  contribute  constructively 
to those discussions in the future. 

With  the  spirit  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  always  in  our  hearts,  the  Republic  of  Korea 
will  continue 
the 
Organization  to  create  a  greater  United  Nations  in 
times of change. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Korea for the statement he has just made. 
to  actively  cooperate  with 
require 
that 
34 

11-50692 



Mr. Lee Myung-bak, President of the Republic of 
Korea,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 


Address by Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, 
President of the Republic of Equatorial Guinea 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Equatorial Guinea. 

Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President 
of 
the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea,  was 
escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Teodoro  Obiang  Nguema 
Mbasogo,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Equatorial 
Guinea, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Obiang  Nguema  Mbasogo  (spoke  in 

Spanish):  I  participate  in  this  debate  of  the  General 
Assembly in our dual position as President in Office of 
the  African  Union  and  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Equatorial  Guinea.  I  do  so  in  the  full  conviction  that 
the passage of years and the experience accumulated in 
the 66 years of the life of this world Organization will 
inspire the international community morally and united 
in  social  and  political  solidarity  around  universal 
norms and principles in order to  address any threat  or 
situation that may affect the planet. 

Mr.  Boolell  (Mauritius),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

With  this  conviction  in  mind,  I  should  like  to 
congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser,  Permanent  Representative  of  Qatar,  on  his 
recent election as President of the General Assembly at 
its sixty-sixth session. He represents an ancient culture 
that  has  contributed  much  to  the  development  of 
humankind,  and  hails  from  a  peaceful  country  that 
demonstrates 
the 
maintenance of peace, stability and development in the 
world.  We  are  certain,  that  under  his  leadership,  the 
United  Nations  will  be  able  to  solve  the  serious 
problems affecting our countries. 

We would also like to congratulate the Secretary-
General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  on  his 
re-election  to  the  helm  of  this  world  Organization,  in 
recognition of the work that he has done over the past 
five  years  despite  the  various  political,  economic  and 
solidarity  and  contributes 
to 
A/66/PV.11
is 
a 
new 
for 
experiencing 
into  a  club 
social crises that our planet has faced and is continuing 
to face. 

On  the  basis  of  that  conviction,  the  United 
Nations,  given  the  current  trend  whereby  it  is  being 
converted 
the  powerful,  must 
reconfigure itself so that it can resume its place as the 
most  representative  and  equitable  organization  in  the 
world  —  one  in  which  those  whose  problems  it  is 
endeavouring to resolve can participate and have their 
voices heard. That would ensure the democratization of 
all of the organs of this universal institution. 

With respect to peace and security, Africa, which 
is  witnessing  various  fratricidal  conflicts  caused,  in 
most  cases,  by  internal  and  external  factors  and  by 
third parties, has firmly stated that it is in favour of the 
peaceful resolution of conflicts, wherever they may be 
taking  place, 
through  dialogue,  mediation  and 
negotiation. 
Africa,  a  continent  whose  countries  and  peoples 

have  been  exploited  for  centuries  by  foreign  Powers, 
today 
of 
neocolonialism, involving the intervention of forces on 
the  basis  of  humanitarian  principles  and  democratic 
freedoms. In  this connection, Africa must bring to the 
fore  its  international  political  personality  so  that  the 
African  Union  is  respected,  moving  beyond  internal 
differences caused by unspoken interests. 

Intervention  by  force,  internal  or  external,  has 
never provided a lasting solution to conflicts since the 
creation of the United Nations, as has been seen in the 
various  conflicts  that  have  taken  place  in  the  past 
50 years.  Unfortunately,  we  can  see  that  the  United 
Nations is being used dishonestly, under the pretext of 
humanitarian 
those 
interventions  have  served  only  to  further  violate  the 
human rights of the peoples affected. The use of force 
in  a  conflict  is  not  a  unifying  factor  but  rather  one  of 
division and destruction.  
The African  Union  recognizes  the  victory  of  the 

National  Transitional  Council  of  Libya  in  its  fight 
against 
its 
Government  undertake  a  programme  of  transition 
aimed at the holding of free and transparent elections, 
ensuring  their  legitimacy  through  the  participation  of 
all  of  the  groups  that  constitute  the  community  of 
Libyan people. 
interventions,  when 
totalitarianism  and 
iteration 
recommends 
that 
in 
fact 
11-50692 

35 
like 
to 

from 
I  should 
this  opportunity 
A/66/PV.11 


With regard to the situation in Tunisia and Egypt, 
we  also  call  on  their  Governments  to  adopt  the  legal 
and administrative structures necessary for democratic 
processes and State institutions.  

to 
take 
congratulate the State of South Sudan on its accession 
to  membership  of  the  United  Nations  and  to  express 
our  wish  that  the  peoples  of  the  Sudan  and  of  South 
Sudan will live in peace and harmony with all of their 
neighbours and with the international community. 
Today’s world is suffering from an economic and 

financial crisis whose consequences are unpredictable. 
It  is  the  result  of  the  irrationality  of  the  current 
political,  economic  and  social  world  order,  which  has 
moved  away 
the  social  and  humanitarian 
principles of equality, justice and fairness. 

In  the  political  realm,  we  cannot  transplant  the 
cultural values of a country or a group of countries to 
others  simply  because 
the  world,  and  policies 
themselves,  are  becoming 
increasingly  globalized. 
Rather,  we  must  promote  dialogue  and  coexistence 
among cultures and civilizations, because, if we do not 
do so, the principle of the self-determination of peoples 
will automatically disappear. 

It is true that democracy is a noble principle and 
applies  to  any  cultural  value  that  is  practiced  and 
accepted  by  peoples.  To  say  otherwise  would  be  to 
betray  the  spirit  of  democracy  that  must  develop  in 
consonance with the cultures of respective peoples. 

On  the  economic  front,  the  social  dimension  of 
peoples  must  manifest  in  the  form  of  productive 
activities  that  benefit  humankind.  In  that  context,  we 
cannot see any justification for the barriers, blockages 
and  discrimination  that  we  see  in  current  economic, 
scientific  and  technical  exchanges  among  nations, 
which  only  perpetuates  the  impoverishment  of  some 
and the ever-increasing enrichment of others. 

Indeed,  the  level  of  participation  of  the  African 
continent  in  world  markets  is  ridiculous,  not  even 
topping  1  per  cent  despite  its  economic  and  human 
potential, which studies have described as representing 
the  future  salvation  of  humankind. Africa  calls  on  the 
developed  countries  to  show  solidarity  and  help  us  to 
develop our economy so as to become an integral part 
of this planet.  
Africa is not asking for a handout. Africa requires 

a  level  of  economic  and  technological  support  that 
their  political, 
would  enable  it  to  process  its  vast  resources,  which, 
while  contributing  to  accelerating  its  development, 
would also have an effect on the economic stability of 
its  partners.  All  of  this  requires  profound  changes  in 
the  way  in  which  we  think  about  the  current  system 
and a readjustment of the methods and procedures used 
in international economic trade. 

The  social  order  is  determined  by  the  political 
and  economic  order,  but  the  political  cannot  develop 
properly  unless  the  economic  does  as  well.  In  that 
respect,  Africa  is  making  great  efforts  to  develop  its 
national  democracies,  and  many  African  States  have 
adapted 
legal  and  administrative 
structures to the basic requirements of democracy. 

Nevertheless,  in  order  to  translate  theory  into 
practice,  certain  basic  requirements  must  be  met  that 
meet  the  material  needs  of  humankind.  Thus  many 
countries  failed  in  this  respect.  Instead  of  their  plans 
coming to fruition, they became engulfed in fratricidal 
conflicts because they did not meet such basic needs.  

Moreover,  the  African  continent  is  facing,  in 
addition to the economic crisis, the devastating effects 
of  climate  change,  natural  disasters,  drought,  famine 
and  communicable  diseases,  which  claim  millions  of 
victims.  In  that  respect,  the  African  Union  recently 
organized a donors conference to support victims in the 
Horn  of  Africa,  with  Somalia  being  one  of  the 
countries  most  affected.  The  African  Union  has 
honoured  its  commitment  to  tackle  this  emergency. 
However, 
international 
community is still needed. 

that  developed  countries  whose 
industries  are  responsible  for  atmospheric  warming 
should  meet  their  commitments  under  the  Kyoto 
Protocol  and  compensate  developing  countries  for  the 
damage  and  harm  resulting  from 
the  effects  of 
atmospheric warming. 

The groups at greatest disadvantage in this crisis 
are  women,  children  and  young  people.  However, 
young  people  without  physical,  intellectual  and  moral 
development  cannot  take  up  the  mantle  from  the 
current  generation  to  ensure  the  future  of  nations. 
Hence  there  is  a  need  to  provide  the  necessary  moral 
and  material  assistance  to  young  people  to  ensure  the 
development of the continent in the future. 

In that regard, the African Union Summit held in 
Sipopo,  Equatorial  Guinea,  adopted  a  programme  for 
the  helping  hand  of 
We  believe 
the 
36 

11-50692 
to 
for 
peace, 
promoting 


promoting  the  employment  of  women  and  young 
people and the fight against underemployment, as well 
as to provide professional and academic training. This 
programme  needs  the  support  of  the  international 
community. 
In  my  own  country,  the  Republic  of  Equatorial 

Guinea,  we  are  committed 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  set  for  2015.  During  the  national 
economic  conference  held  in  2009  to  plan  for  the 
rational  use  of  our  oil  resources  and  others,  the 
Government adopted a national economic development 
programme,  with  the  aim  of  ensuring  that  Equatorial 
Guinea  joins  the  ranks  of  emerging  economies  by 
2020. 

In parallel to this programme, the Government is 
carrying out political, legal and administrative reforms 
in order to optimize the development of democracy and 
ensure  control, 
transparency,  good  economic  and 
political management and  guarantee maximum respect 
for human rights. 
The  political  environment  in  my  country  is 

optimal 
and 
reconciliation  among  all  political  forces,  who  work 
together  in  harmony  with  a  unified  set  of  consensual 
political criteria. 

Finally,  Equatorial  Guinea  is  participating  in 
these  discussions  with  a  good  measure  of  optimism, 
based on our belief that, contrary to the selfishness that 
prevents  many  States  from  joining  their  efforts  to 
tackle  the  problems  facing  our  world,  what  we  are 
seeing  every  day 
is  a  growing  awareness  and 
international  moral  determination 
the  United 
Nations  should  be  a  veritable  centre  for  the  unity  and 
cohesion of the international community. 

Indeed,  while  Africa  was  isolated  in  the  past, 
today  the  groups  of  countries  who  trust  in Africa,  its 
States and the contribution they can make to the global 
development continue to grow. We wish the sixty-sixth 
session of the General Assembly every success. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  and  Head  of 
State  of  the  Republic  of  Equatorial  Guinea  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr. Teodoro Obiang Nguema Mbasogo, President 
and  Head  of  State  of  the  Republic  of  Equatorial 
Guinea, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.  
stability 
that 
A/66/PV.11

to 
this  historic  setting.  May 
Address by His Majesty King Abdullah II Bin 
Al Hussein, Head of State of the Hashemite Kingdom 
of Jordan  
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  hear 

an  address  by  the  Head  of  State  of  the  Hashemite 
Kingdom of Jordan. 

His  Majesty  King  Abdullah  II  Bin  Al  Hussein, 
Head  of  State  of  the  Hashemite  Kingdom  of 
Jordan,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Majesty King Abdullah II Bin Al Hussein, 
Head  of  State  of  the  Hashemite  Kingdom  of  Jordan, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.  
King  Abdullah:  It  is  an  honour  to  return  once 

again 
I  warmly 
congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser. Jordanians well remember his distinguished 
tenure as Qatar’s Ambassador to Jordan. I also express 
my  warm  congratulations  to  the  Secretary-General  on 
his election to a second term. 

This  year,  in  my  region  and  everywhere  in  the 
world,  leaders  are  being  asked  to  listen  and  to  act;  to 
solve today’s serious global crises in the economy, the 
environment, and peace; to uphold the equal dignity of 
all  persons  and,  as  provided  for  in  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  the  equal  rights  of  our  nations;  to 
create  more  inclusive  political  and  economic  life, 
especially  including  young  people;  and  to  prove  that 
global justice, by peaceful process of law, is more than 
words: it is achievable, and achievable now. 

The  challenge  has  come  to  my  region,  and 
historic  transformations  are  under  way.  This  year,  we 
have  witnessed  vast  changes,  both  orderly  transitions 
and  tumultuous  events  with  a  high  price  in  bloodshed 
and  loss.  But  those  of  us  who  have  welcomed  and 
championed  reform  are  hopeful.  We  believe  that  the 
Arab  Spring  can  be  an  opportunity  to  institutionalize 
positive  change  —  change  that  is  necessary  for  a 
strong, secure and prosperous future. We can build on 
achievements 
the 
pioneering 
of  Arab-Islamic 
civilization,  with 
its  core  values  of  compassion, 
responsibility, tolerance and respect for others. 

For  my  country,  these  opportunities  are  opening 
the door to a major revitalization of our reform effort. 
We  want  it  to  be  an  inclusive,  national  effort  that  can 
11-50692 

37 

review  of 
Early  on,  Jordan  began  a 
A/66/PV.11 

reach  our  goal  of  parliamentary  Government.  The 
irreversible  democratic  change  we  seek  means  more 
than establishing new structures. It means embedding a 
way of life: the active responsibility of participating in 
political parties; creating political, economic and social 
platforms; and working with others to realize the future 
our  people  need.  It  also  means  building  reform  right 
into  reform,  including  the  rule  of  law,  justice  and  the 
rights and freedoms of democratic political life. 

the 
cornerstone  of  our  political  life,  the  Constitution. 
Parliament  is  currently  putting  the  final  touches  on 
amendments for ratification by both chambers. Among 
these key provisions are  an independent constitutional 
court and an independent elections commission. 

We in Jordan are  also  working with  our partners 
to address another global danger, namely, the immense 
negative impact of regional conflict. The central — the 
single  greatest  driver  of  division  and  instability  —  is 
the Palestinian-Israeli conflict.  

We  are  today  at  a  dangerous  impasse.  The 
opportunities of a year ago to move talks forward to a 
clear-cut 
to  gain  momentum. 
Negotiations have come to a halt. Frustrations are at a 
peak.  Even  as  we  speak,  Israeli  settlement  activity  is 
ongoing,  despite  every  ruling  of  international  law  and 
in the face of strong international protest.  

We  are  seeing  settlement  activity  in  Jerusalem, 
although  that  is  one  of  the  key  final  status  issues  that 
can only be resolved through negotiations. It is a global 
concern.  In  my  great-grandfather’s  words,  a  sacred 
chain binds Muslims around the world to that holy city. 
I cannot overstate the crisis that would arise from harm 
to  the  holy  sites  of  any  faith  or  from  efforts  to 
annihilate the Arab character of East Jerusalem. 

A  two-State  solution  that  ends  the  conflict  by 
meeting the needs of both sides is, and can be, the only 
secure and lasting peace. A solution comprised of two 
States — a sovereign, independent and viable Palestine 
and  Israel,  accepted  and  secure  —  is  the  core  of  all 
major international proposals, including the Arab Peace 
Initiative.  

All are agreed that negotiations must go forward, 
and  soon,  resolving  the  final  status  of  all  four  key 
issues — borders, Jerusalem, refugees and settlements. 
Only then will the conflict cease to be a flashpoint for 
endgame 
failed 
that 
recognized 
rights 
recognized 
President  Obama 
global violence, and people on both sides will be able 
to get on with their future in peace. 

strategic 
imperative when he set the parameters for a solution on 
19 May. The Arabs viewed these parameters positively. 
Israel  built  settlements.  The  Quartet,  the  European 
Union,  President  Sarkozy  and  other  representatives  of 
the  international  community  have  put  workable  ideas 
on  the  table.  The  Arab  States  welcomed  them.  Israel 
built  settlements.  That  is  where  we  find  ourselves 
today.  

We  cannot  teach  the  next  generation  respect  for 
law  and  mutual  acceptance  if  they  see  law  and 
compromise  repeatedly  fail.  Yet  we  must  uphold  the 
law, or civilization falls. We cannot teach the value of 
peaceful  process  if  peaceful  process  repeatedly  fails. 
Yet we must uphold peaceful process, or humankind is 
lost.  
In  this  impasse,  Jordan  and  the  Arab  States  are 

holding  fast  to  our  principles  of  peace  and  law.  We 
have come here ─ to the house of nations ─ to seek the 
justice of nations. 

the 
inalienable right of the Palestinian people to Statehood, 
in  fulfilment  of  their  aspirations,  in  accordance  with 
United Nations resolutions and within a comprehensive 
and just settlement, including the resolution of all final 
status  issues.  It  is  their  right  to  seek  it  here,  in  the 
home of nations, the United Nations. That we must all 
support. 

We  seek  a  new  and  vigorous  international  push, 
with  concrete  steps  toward  the  endgame. We  seek  not 
words, not process, but a decisive end to conflict and a 
new beginning in peace — the peace that comes from 
real  Statehood.  We  seek 
for 
Palestinians  —  the  rights  that  allow  people  to  look 
forward  in  dignity  and  hope.  We  seek  a  peace  that 
brings  real  security  for  Israelis  —  who  will  put  aside 
their fortress mentality and achieve acceptance in their 
neighbourhood and the world. 

share  basic 
concerns —  a  better  life  for  themselves  and  their 
families,  security  to  plan  for  the  future,  a  say  in  how 
society is organized and rights they can depend on. For 
too  many,  these  hopes  have  been  unanswered.  But  a 
new  era 
in  my  region,  with  new 
Men  and  women  everywhere 
to  strongly  support 
We  will  continue 
is  beginning 
38 

11-50692 


opportunities  to  move  forward  in  democracy,  security 
and peace. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Head  of  State  of  the 
Hashemite Kingdom of Jordan for the statement he has 
just made. 

His  Majesty  King  Abdullah  II  Bin  Al  Hussein, 
Head  of  State  of  the  Hashemite  Kingdom  of 
Jordan, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 


start 
President  Halonen:  Let  me 
Address by Ms. Tarja Halonen, President of the 
Republic of Finland 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Finland. 

Ms.  Halonen,  President  of 
the  Republic  of 
Finland, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Tarja  Halonen,  President 
of the Republic of Finland, and to invite her to address 
the Assembly. 
by 

congratulating  both  the  President  and  the  Secretary-
General on their elections.  
and 

integration 
interconnection.  No  country  can  solve  all 
the 
challenges it faces on its own. Every country should be 
part  of  the  solution.  Common  responses  are  needed 
more  than  ever.  Accordingly,  the  importance  of  the 
United Nations has grown.  

The United Nations, or as  I like to call  it — the 
G-193  —  has  been  a  success  story.  The  guiding 
principles of the United Nations Charter — peace and 
security, human rights and development — have served 
us well for decades.  

The  Millennium  Development  Goals  are  more 
recent  examples  of  the  global  reach  of  the  United 
Nations.  These  Goals  have  inspired  Governments  to 
introduce  measures  that  are  saving  lives  every  single 
day.  

The United Nations has also been at the forefront 
of support for the empowerment of women. The United 
era  of 
live 
We 
in 
an 
A/66/PV.11
and 
for  Gender  Equality 
Globalization  has  contributed 
Nations  Entity 
the 
Empowerment  of  Women  gives  women  and  girls  an 
even  stronger  and  more  unified  voice.  I  have  truly 
enjoyed  hearing  so  many  speakers  today  underlining 
that important trend.  

to  substantial 
economic growth. However, fruits of that growth have 
not  been  equally  distributed  between  and  within 
nations.  That  is  wrong,  and  it  is  not  sustainable.  It  is 
our duty to provide a sustainable future for our planet 
and  its  people.  Sustainability,  in  brief,  is  about  a 
resilient  planet  that  supports  the  needs  of  all  people 
worldwide.  

We,  the  world  community,  have  accomplished  a 
lot  since  we  adopted  the  Millennium  Declaration 
(resolution  55/2)  and  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  11  years  ago.  Both  of  them  have  proved  to  be 
effective tools in the eradication of extreme poverty.  
But  the  work  must  continue  with  enhanced 

determination. We must respect the interdependence of 
the three dimensions of sustainable development — the 
social,  economic  and  ecological.  If  even  one  of  these 
dimensions 
is  neglected,  development  cannot  be 
sustainable.  

Recent events in Northern Africa and the Middle 
East  have  once  again  emphasized  that  development, 
human  rights  and  peace  and  security  are  interlinked. 
Everyone  must  be  able  to  enjoy  civil  and  political  as 
well as economic, social and cultural rights. 

I  am  pleased  to  chair  the  High-level  Panel  on 
Global  Sustainability  together  with  President  Zuma  of 
South  Africa.  We  will  deliver  our  recommendations 
towards the end of this year. The goal of the Panel is to 
eradicate  poverty  and  reduce  inequality,  make  growth 
inclusive,  and  production  and  consumption  more 
sustainable,  while  combating  climate  change  and 
respecting the range of other planetary boundaries. We 
are fully convinced that the eradication of poverty and 
sustainable  development  are  interlinked  and  can  be 
reached together. It is really one fight. 

The  Panel  is  building  bridges  between  economy, 
ecology  and  social  justice.  The  empowerment  of 
women and youth is vital for our goal. It is necessary 
to put into use all human resources for the development 
of our societies. 
We have not only discussed setting the goals but 

also  how  to  reach  them.  I  believe  that  expanding 
11-50692 

39 

(MDGs) 
A/66/PV.11 

Millennium  Development  Goals 
into 
sustainable  development  goals  around  the  year  2015 
could  help  the  world  community  to  continue  its  fight 
against poverty and enhance sustainable development. 

In today’s world, there are far too many conflicts. 
As  they  often  take  place  within  countries,  they  are 
especially dangerous for civilians. These asymmetrical 
conflicts  usually  arise  from  injustice,  violations  of 
human rights and discrimination against minorities.  

The President has chosen a very important theme 
for the general debate, namely mediation. The peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes,  conflict  prevention  and 
mediation  are  at  the  very  heart  of  the  United  Nations. 
Mediation has to be used at every stage of conflict. We 
need to enhance the capabilities of the United Nations 
in  this  field.  Training  and  guidance  are  pivotal. 
Women’s  participation  and  grass-roots  activities  and 
the  work  of  non-governmental  organizations  are  also 
vital for our efforts if we want to win. 

On  the  initiative  of  Finland  and  Turkey,  the 
General  Assembly  unanimously  adopted  a  resolution 
on  mediation  in  June  of  this  year  (resolution  65/283). 
As  has  been  mentioned  today,  this  is  the  very  first 
resolution  on  this  theme  in  the  history  of  the  United 
Nations. The  resolution  aims  at  strengthening  the  role 
of  the  United  Nations  in  mediation.  I  would  like  to 
thank the Member States for their excellent support to 
this  process.  Let  us  continue  our  common  efforts  also 
during the sixty-sixth session of the General Assembly. 
We are ready for that. 
Peace processes need to be more inclusive. I wish 

to  stress  the  importance  of  the  full  and  effective 
participation of women in all stages of peace processes. 
The record is far from impressive at the moment, as the 
number  of  women  around 
tables 
continues to be strikingly low. I welcome the efforts by 
UN-Women to change the situation, and I call upon us 
all  to  make  a  commitment  to  involve  more  women  in 
this work. 

Finland, my own country, is a strong supporter of 
the  United  Nations,  in  word  and  deed.  We  contribute 
more  than  our  share  to  peacekeeping,  to  development 
aid  and  to  the  promotion  of  human  rights  around  the 
world.  Finland  wishes 
its 
responsibilities,  with  the  Assembly’s  support,  in  the 
Security  Council 
term  2013-2014.  Our 
commitment, our capacity to serve on the Council and 
our record speak for us. 
the  negotiation 
to  continue 
to  carry 
the 
for 
Finland 
a 
the 
to 
the  need 
testimony 
commends 
rights  and 
for  equal  civil 

Finland warmly welcomes the Republic of South 
Sudan  as  the  193rd  Member  State  of  the  United 
Nations.  The  implementation  of  the  Comprehensive 
Peace  Agreement  has  been  a 
the 
importance  of  mediation  and  regional  leadership.  I 
commend the efforts of President Mbeki and his Panel 
to  find  solutions  to  outstanding  issues  between  the 
Sudan and South Sudan. 

The dramatic and rapidly evolving situation in the 
Arab  world  has  been  at  the  centre  of  the  attention  of 
the  international  community.  Women  and  men  have 
marched together for a better future. It is important that 
they  continue  to  participate  side  by  side  in  also 
building  a  democratic  society.  Democracy  cannot  be 
achieved without full participation of women too. 
As  we  welcome  the  new  Libya  into  the  world 

the  National 
community, 
to 
Transitional  Council  for  underlining 
continue  building 
sense  of  national  unity, 
reconciliation  and  an  inclusive  political  system  with 
respect 
freedom  of 
expression.  Finland  gives  its  full  support  to  the 
transition,  reflecting  the  aspirations  of  Libyan  people. 
We  are  ready  to  support  the  building  of  democratic 
society based on the rule of law and respect for human 
rights,  including  the  fulfilment  of  the  human  rights  of 
women. The United Nations should play a central role 
in 
community’s 
contribution.  We  very  much  welcome  the  United 
Nations Support Mission in Libya. 

Reaching a solution to the Middle East conflict is 
more pressing than ever. The Palestinians have a right 
to 
international 
community  gathered  here  in  the  General  Assembly 
must show that it is united in its message to the parties. 
We need the urgent resumption of negotiations that will 
lead,  within  an  agreed  on  time  frame,  to  a  two-State 
solution,  with  the  State  of  Israel  and  an  independent, 
democratic,  contiguous  and  viable  State  of  Palestine 
living  side  by  side  in  peace  and  security.  There  is  no 
time to waste. 

I  have  had  an  opportunity  to  lead  Finland’s 
delegation  to  the  General  Assembly  since  1995.  We 
have witnessed a remarkable widening of our common 
global agenda. Today’s decisions will affect not only us 
but also future generations. Change is necessary for the 
survival of humankind. I am confident that the United 
their  own  State,  Palestine.  The 
international 
coordinating 
40 

11-50692 
I  wish  those  gathered  here  all  the  best  for  the 


Nations  is  the  sole  universal  forum  to  respond  to  the 
challenges that the world is facing. 

future.  
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Finland for the statement she has just made. 

Ms.  Tarja  Halonen,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Finland, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 


Address by Juan Manuel Santos Calderón, President 
of the Republic of Colombia 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Colombia. 

Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Santos  Calderón,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Colombia,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Santos 
Calderón,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Colombia,  and 
to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Santos  Calderón  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

During  the  past  year  we  have  witnessed  events  and 
popular  uprisings  that  are  changing  the  face  of  the 
planet, both politically and economically. As President 
of  a  country  that  firmly  believes  in  multilateralism,  I 
come to the General Assembly today to emphasize how 
important  it  is  for  the  United  Nations  to  assume  the 
fundamental role that belongs to it in the face of such 
crises. Crises in and of themselves are neither good nor 
bad;  their  results  depend  on  how  we  manage  them. 
They can often become genuine opportunities.  

The  political  transformations  we  are  seeing  in 
North  Africa  and  in  the  Middle  East,  for  example,  if 
they lead to a strengthening of democracy and the rule 
of  law  in  the  affected  countries,  can  be  a  factor  in 
global  stability.  What  the  peoples  request,  what  the 
peoples  seek,  is  freedom,  respect  for  their  rights,  the 
ability to choose their leaders and democracy. The duty 
of  the  international  community  is  to  support  them.  If 
we do not, if we turn our back on them, we may see a 
protracted period of civil wars and conflict, which we 
should avoid at all cost. 
A/66/PV.11
learned 
trust  and 
to 
reach  solutions 
lent  his  good  offices 
to 
Therefore,  we  must  commit  ourselves 

to 
strengthening  and  applying  the  methods  of  peaceful 
conflict  resolution  described  in  Chapter  VI  of  the 
United  Nations  Charter.  The  more  efficient  we  are  in 
the  use  of  preventive  diplomacy,  the  less  need  there 
will be for intervention.  

We  should  advocate  effective  mediation  with 
conviction,  mediation  that  does  not  seek  the  leading 
role but one that is given the time and tools required to 
establish 
that  are 
advantageous to all parties. 

I  am  pleased  to  be  able  to  affirm  today  that 
Colombia  does  not  just  believe  in  mediation  and 
peaceful solutions; we have successfully put them into 
practice.  My  Government  succeeded  in  normalizing 
relations  with  two  countries:  Venezuela  and  Ecuador. 
We did this on the basis of conciliation and respectful, 
direct dialogue. 
The  former  President  of  Argentina,  Mr.  Néstor 

Kirchner, then Secretary General of the Union of South 
American  Nations, 
the 
rapprochement  between  Venezuela  and  Colombia.  His 
management was extremely effective, a great legacy he 
left to our region. 

that 
Governments  and  States  may  have  differing,  even  at 
times  opposing,  political  concepts,  but  that  this  does 
not  mean  they  cannot  live  together  and  cooperate  in 
peace.  We  have  also  made  important  contributions  to 
the  search  for  dialogue,  negotiation  and  mediation  in 
our  region.  Honduras  is  an  example  of  that  effort. 
Venezuela  and  Colombia  joined  forces  to  support  the 
through 
Honduran  parties 
dialogue  and  rebuilding 
in 
bringing  Honduras  back  into  the  Union  of  South 
American Nations. 

What  I  have  said  so  far  can  also  be  applied  to 
long-standing conflicts, such as that between Israel and 
Palestine.  Advances  can  be  achieved  if,  and  only  if, 
direct  dialogue  and  effective  mediation  are  employed. 
Along with the rest of the international community, we 
are concerned by the suspension of peace negotiations, 
and  we  urge  —  in  fact,  we  implore  —  both  parties  to 
return to the negotiating table as soon as possible. That 
is  the  only  —  I  repeat,  the  only  —  path  that  leads  to 
what we all wish to see: two States living in peace and 
security. 
In  Latin  America  we  have 
trust.  This  succeeded 
in 
their 
reconciliation 
11-50692 

41 

it  highly  vulnerable,  Colombia 
A/66/PV.11 


On a positive note, we can offer as an example of 
appropriate cooperation and negotiation the efforts that 
led to the creation of the Republic of South Sudan, the 
most  recent  Member  of  the  United  Nations,  to  which 
we give the most effusive welcome. 

As  a  current  member  of  the  Security  Council, 
Colombia  has  brought  to  the  agenda  the  situation  of 
Haiti,  a  country  struck  by  natural  phenomena  and 
affected  by  unacceptable  poverty.  The  solution  there 
must remain a priority for all of us. Peace in Haiti will 
be the fruit not just of peacekeeping operations, but of 
the  empowerment  of  Haitians  themselves  in  handling 
their  own  problems  and  solutions,  with  sufficient 
international  support  for  their  economic  and  social 
development. 

By  virtue  of  its  place  as  the  country  with  the 
greatest biodiversity per square kilometre in the world, 
which  makes 
is 
committed  to  measures  that  mitigate  the  effects  of 
climate change and enable us to adapt to them. 

We  are  participating  in  the  preparations  for  the 
upcoming  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development,  Rio+20,  which  will  take  place  in  July 
2012,  with  a  proposal  we  have  been  developing  in 
consultation  with  other  countries. We  believe  that  one 
of 
the 
establishment of a set of sustainable development goals 
based  on  the  agenda  that  was  approved  in  the  first 
conference  and  echoing  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. 
The guiding principles were established in Rio in 

1992,  and  an  implementation  plan  was  agreed  on  in 
Johannesburg  in  2002. Today,  20  years  later,  we  need 
to  define  a  set  of  goals  that  allow  us  to  measure 
achievements, identify shortcomings and determine the 
opportunities  for  advancement.  The  planet  and  its 
future  demand  that  we  work  with  goals,  with  specific 
indicators  of  results  that  ensure  the  efficacy  of  our 
efforts. 

A  year  ago  I  said  that  thanks  to  advances  in 
economic  and  social  security,  Colombia  was  at  the 
threshold  of  a  new  dawn.  Today  I  can  state  with 
realism  and  well-founded  optimism  that  the  first  rays 
of  that  new  dawn  are  beginning  to  warm  us  and  light 
our way. 

My Government is one of national unity, in which 
the  main  political  parties  have  converged  around  the 
the  main  results  of  Rio+20  should  be 
fundamental  objectives  of  the  nation.  This  unity  has 
afforded us a significant measure of governability and 
has  enabled  us  to  have  historic  laws  and  reforms 
approved  in  our  Congress  that  will  help  us  to  have  a 
more  prosperous  and  safer  nation,  one  that  is  more 
equitable and more egalitarian. 

Among the initiatives that have been approved, I 
wish  to  point  to  a  law  concerning  victims  and  the 
return of land that guarantees that the State and society 
work to make reparations and to return stolen lands to 
hundreds  of  thousands  of  farmers  affected  by  the 
violence  of  the  past  several  decades. We  are  paying  a 
moral  debt  to  the  victims. This  is  the  first  time  in  the 
history  of  the  world  that  this  is  happening  before  the 
end of an internal armed conflict. We have decided that 
justice, truth and reparations must not have to wait.  

It  is  worth  pointing  out  that  Secretary-General 
Ban-Ki Moon joined us in Bogotá the day that law was 
passed. He emphasized the advance it represented and 
offered the assistance of the United Nations in ensuring 
its proper application.  

Also  thanks  to  the  governability  guaranteed  by 
our  new  national  unity,  we  were  able  to  establish  a 
more  equitable  distribution  of  resources  originating 
from  oil  and  mining  to  ensure  that  they  reach  our 
neediest population and regions. 
In  addition,  at  this  time  of  global  financial  and 

economic  volatility,  we  have  introduced  into  our 
Constitution  the  element  of  fiscal  sustainability,  and 
have  enacted  a  law  to  ensure  that  the  State  maintains 
discipline  in  its  management  of  public  finances.  Such 
responsible 
investor 
confidence, had a positive impact on our country’s risk 
rating and will lead to a more stable economic future in 
which we believe we will be able to focus on reducing 
unemployment  and  poverty,  my  Government’s  two 
main priorities. 

Colombia, to a degree unlike any other country in 
the  world,  has  had  to  deal  with  the  global  drug 
problem. We have had much success, but a great many 
challenges  remain.  We  know  how  terrorists  benefit 
from  drug-trafficking,  and  there  can  be  no  doubt  that 
drugs  and  terrorism  threaten  democracies  and  the  rule 
of  law.  Colombia  will  continue  to  combat  these 
scourges,  because  for  us  they  represent  a  national 
security  problem.  We  are  actively  cooperating  in  the 
region,  and  will  continue 
to  combat 
transnational  crime.  We  can  only  succeed  if  we 
to  do  so, 
initiatives 
have 
increased 
42 

11-50692 
in 
the  areas  of 


cooperate  and  work  together  in  this  struggle,  which 
affects every country equally. 

A year ago, from this rostrum (see A/65/PV.15), I 
said  that  we  should  call  the  decade  that  was  then  just 
beginning  the  decade  of  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean. I reaffirm that prediction now. Our region is 
an area of political and economic stability that is firmly 
determined  to  move  forward  with  social  policy.  We 
have both the capability and the willingness to provide 
the  world  with  solutions 
the 
environment,  water,  energy,  food  and  labour.  But  our 
region cannot grow or progress in isolation. We want to 
advance  hand  in  hand  with  the  world,  sharing  the 
principles  of  respect  and  tolerance.  We  welcome 
progress in prosperity wherever it occurs in the world. 

That  is  why  I  would  like  to  conclude  by  calling 
on  the  nations  of  the  world  and  on  the  Organization 
that  brings  us  together  here  to  continue  to  work 
together  to  make  use  of  the  peaceful  means  at  our 
disposal,  with  a  new  goal:  to  turn  the  crises  we  are 
experiencing  today  into  opportunities  for  a  better 
tomorrow.  The  future,  as  has  always  been  the  case, 
depends  on  us.  With  determination  and  positive 
leadership,  we  can  convert  these  storms  into  winds 
favourable to the whole of humankind. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  Colombia 
for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Juan  Manuel  Santos  Calderón,  President  of 
the Republic of Colombia, was escorted from the 
General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, President 
and Commander-in-Chief of the Armed Forces of the 
Federal Republic of Nigeria 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  and  Commander-in-
Chief of the Armed Forces of the Federal Republic  of 
Nigeria. 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Goodluck  Ebele  Jonathan, 
President  and  Commander-in-Chief  of 
the 
Federal  Republic  of  Nigeria,  was  escorted  into 
the General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Goodluck Ebele Jonathan, 
President  and  Commander-in-Chief  of  the  Armed 
A/66/PV.11
behalf 
of 
President 
felicitations 
Jonathan:  On 
Forces of the Federal Republic of Nigeria, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly. 
the 

Government  and  people  of  Nigeria,  I  would  like  to 
congratulate  the  President  on  his  election  as  the 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth 
session. I have no doubt that under his able leadership 
the work of the session will be brought to a successful 
conclusion.  I  should  also  like  to  acknowledge  the 
excellent work done by his predecessor, His Excellency 
Mr. Joseph Deiss, who guided the affairs of the sixty-
fifth session with consummate skill and commitment. 
I  must  also  take  this  opportunity  to  extend  my 

warmest 
to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon  on  his  well-deserved  re-election,  a  tribute  to 
his leadership and vision. He deserves our appreciation 
for the good work he is doing on our behalf. 

I  also  welcome  the  newest  member  of  the 
Organization,  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan.  I  am 
confident  that  South  Sudan  will  bring  a  unique 
perspective  to  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  and 
enrich our collective experience. 

Despite  our  initial  optimism,  the  peace  dividend 
we  had  hoped  would  accrue  following  the  end  of  the 
Cold  War  is  yet  to  materialize.  On  the  contrary,  the 
world  of  the  twenty-first  century  in  which  we  live  is 
becoming  ever  more  precarious,  unpredictable  and 
certainly more dangerous — perhaps more than at any 
other  time  in  history.  The  increasing  use  of  terror  in 
various  regions  of  the  world  as  a  form  of  political 
action poses a serious threat to international peace and 
security. We must win the war against terror because it 
infringes on the fundamental right of all peoples to life 
and to live in safety from fear. 

Over  the  past  few  months,  we  in  Nigeria  have 
faced  an  upsurge  in  terrorist  attacks  in  parts  of  our 
country. Only recently, the United Nations building in 
Abuja housing several United Nations agencies was the 
target  of  an  atrocious  terrorist  attack  that  left  several 
dead.  On  behalf  of  the  Government  and  people  of 
Nigeria, 
sincere 
condolences  to  the  families  of  the  victims  and  to  the 
entire  United  Nations  family  for  this  barbaric  and 
heinous attack on those who have dedicated their lives 
to helping others. As the United States and the rest of 
the  world  commemorate  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the 
attacks  of  9/11,  we  are  reminded  of  the  international 
to  convey  my 
I  would 
like 
11-50692 

43 

the 
to 
relevant 
in  order 
terrorism  and 
imperative  of  a 
international  bodies  and 
sharpen  our 
A/66/PV.11 

dimension  of 
concerted global response to combat this scourge. 

For  us  in  Nigeria,  terrorist  acts,  rather  than 
intimidating  us,  will  only  help  to  strengthen  our 
resolve  to  develop  appropriate  national  strategies  and 
to collaborate even more closely with the international 
community in the fight against this menace. As part of 
Nigeria’s efforts to fight terrorism, on 3 June, I signed 
into law a terrorism bill and an anti-money-laundering 
prohibition  amendment  act.  The  new  laws  not  only 
outline measures for preventing and combating acts of 
terrorism,  but  also  prohibit  the  financing  of  terrorism 
and  laundering  of  the  proceeds  of  crime.  Nigeria  will 
continue  to  work  with  the  United  Nations  and  other 
partners in this global fight. 

To  that  end,  Nigeria  is  working  closely  with  the 
Counter-Terrorism Implementation Task Force and the 
Counter-Terrorism  Executive  Directorate,  as  well  as 
with 
friendly 
countries, 
response 
mechanisms. In that connection, the Counter-Terrorism 
Implementation Task Force will launch its first project 
in  Abuja  in  November,  which  will  be  aimed  at 
preventing  conflict  and  countering  the  appeal  of 
terrorism  to  youth  through  education  and  dialogue.  In 
addition, Nigeria is a member of a new global body, the 
Global Counterterrorism Forum, launched to galvanize 
and help pull our efforts together to fight this scourge 
in all its ramifications. We pledge to continue to work 
with  all  stakeholders  as  we  enlarge  and  intensify  our 
partnerships. 

When  I  stood  before  the  Assembly  last  year,  I 
made a solemn pledge that Nigeria would conduct free 
and  credible  elections  in  the  second  quarter  of  this 
year.  I  am  glad  to  report  that  last  April  we  indeed 
conducted what have been adjudged to be credible and 
transparent  general  elections.  Let  me 
this 
opportunity  to  thank  the  United  Nations  and  all  the 
other organizations, nations and individuals that helped 
us  to  achieve  that  feat.  The  elections  are  now  behind 
us, and the Government that I head is well on course to 
implement  our  programmes  of  transformation  —  a 
strategic  plan  for  the  delivery  of  the  dividends  of 
democracy to citizens and for preparing our country for 
the  challenges  of  the  future.  Indeed,  all  across  my 
country, there is a renewed sense of optimism and self-
belief  in  our  ability  to  recreate  a  new  Nigeria  on  the 
principles  of  personal  freedoms,  democracy,  good 
governance and the rule of law. 
take 
and 
early 
identification 

Permit  me  to  identify  with  the  theme  of  this 
year’s debate of engaging the role of mediation in the 
peaceful  resolution  of  conflicts  in  the  world.  The 
Assembly  will  recall  that  Nigeria  was  in  the  forefront 
of  the  campaign  to  promote  this  theme  when,  as  the 
President  of  the  Security  Council  in  July  2010,  my 
country  adopted  the  use  of  preventive  diplomacy  to 
resolve armed conflicts across the world. This theme is 
apt  and  could  not  have  come  at  a  better  time,  when 
armed conflicts are increasingly taking a greater part of 
the time and resources of the United Nations. 

For  too  long,  the  international  community  has 
focused too little attention on mediation and preventive 
diplomacy,  and  far  too  much  effort  and  resources  on 
the military aspects of peace and security. Yet measures 
to address the root cause of conflict, including dialogue 
and mediation, can be far more effective as a means for 
achieving sustainable peace and stability. 

I  believe  that  cultivating  peace  and  fulfilling  the 
aims  of  Chapter  VI  of  the  United  Nations  Charter 
require 
appropriate 
intervention  in  conflict  situations  in  order  to  build 
confidence  and  trust  and  to  preclude  the  eruption  of 
violence between opposing parties. As I see it, our goal 
should always be to present the peaceful alternative as 
a  less  costly  and  effective  way  of  achieving  political 
and social objectives. I also believe that, in addition to 
other 
tools  of  preventive  diplomacy, 
democracy  and  good  governance  can  be  particularly 
important  in  building  a  just,  equitable  and  inclusive 
society. By focusing on mediation as a tool for conflict 
prevention,  we  are  able  to  address  the  real  triggers  of 
conflict,  without  which  we  cannot  achieve  sustainable 
solutions. 

However, for the world to move from a culture of 
response  after  conflict 
that  of  a  culture  of 
prevention,  the  international  community  must  muster 
the  political  will  to  promote  preventive  diplomacy,  in 
particular  through  mediation.  This  will  necessarily 
entail 
financial 
resources  to  institutions  and  mechanisms  that  already 
exist,  within  and  outside  the  United  Nations  system, 
for conflict prevention and resolution. 

Going  forward,  I  would  like  to  propose  the 
establishment, under the Secretary-General’s Office, of 
a conflict mediation commission, to be charged, among 
other  things,  with  collating  information  on  conflict 
situations  across  the  world,  identifying  the  dramatis 
rededicating  greater  human  and 
traditional 
to 
44 

11-50692 
the 
to 
the 
our 
to, 
to 
the 
This 
explains 
light  weapons 
This  naturally  brings  me 


personae  and  developing  appropriate  strategies  for 
initiating 
resolution  of  such  conflicts.  The 
commission  would  also  develop  rules  of  engagement, 
including sanctions that would apply to those who may 
obstruct efforts to resolve conflicts peacefully. 

issue  of 
trafficking in small arms and light weapons. If the idea 
of resolving conflicts through mediation is to succeed, 
then the problem of trafficking in small arms and light 
weapons must be frontally tackled. The proliferation of 
small  arms  and 
is  particularly 
worrisome,  due 
their  easy  accessibility  and 
availability to unauthorized persons and groups, who in 
turn  have  used  these  arms  to  create  instability  and 
insecurity  in  most  of  the  countries  of  the  developing 
world. Even worse, the proliferation of these weapons 
has proved handy in the hands of terrorists. 

and 
commitment 
preoccupation  with,  the  actualization  of  an  arms  trade 
treaty  that  robustly  addresses  the  illicit  trade  in  small 
arms  and  light  weapons,  which,  as  we  all  know,  are 
among the major causes of destabilization and conflict 
in Africa. The danger of the proliferation of, and illicit 
trade  in,  small  arms  and  light  weapons  informed 
Nigeria’s decision to sponsor resolution 61/89, of 2006, 
the  principal  objective  being  to  provide  a  legally 
binding 
in 
conventional  arms.  We  will  continue  to  support  all 
initiatives  towards  the  realization  of  an  arms  trade 
treaty  in  2012.  I  call  on  all  Member  States  to  join  in 
this endeavour. 

The increasing rate of piracy and other  maritime 
crimes,  with  their  attendant  damaging  effects  on 
security,  trade  and  economic  activities  in  the  Gulf  of 
Guinea  and  other  locations,  calls  for  coordinated 
regional and global approaches. In this respect, I would 
like  to  express  support  for  the  proposal  of  the 
Secretary-General 
to  deploy  a  United  Nations 
assessment mission to study the situation in the Gulf of 
Guinea  and  explore  possible  options  for  United 
Nations  support  and  action.  Our  expectation  is  that  a 
positive outcome from such a strategy will benefit not 
only  our  subregion  but 
international 
community as well. I am already consulting with other 
leaders in our subregion to boost this initiative. 

The  United  Nations  strategy  for  gender  equality 
and  women’s  empowerment,  especially  through  the 
creation  of  UN-Women,  deserves  commendation  and 
instrument  for 
international 
larger 
the 
trade 
A/66/PV.11
look  forward 
support.  Nigeria’s  support  for  UN-Women,  to  which 
we  have  made  substantial  contributions,  reflects  our 
desire to harness the potential of women in the task of 
nation-building. 

Our  national  action  plan  on  gender  equality  and 
women’s  empowerment  places  strong  emphasis  on 
women’s  effective  participation 
in  politics  and 
adequate  representation  in  public  office.  I  am  indeed 
proud  to  announce  to  the  Assembly  that  more  than 
30 per  cent  of  my  Cabinet  is  made  up  of  women.  Let 
me also commend the Executive Board of UN-Women 
on the successful take-off of the entity. UN-Women can 
be assured of Nigeria’s strong support. 

This  year,  the  prevention  of  non-communicable 
diseases was one of the issues slated for discussion at a 
High-level Meeting. Only three months ago, I attended 
the  High-level  Meeting  on  AIDS,  where  I  pledged 
Nigeria’s  commitment  to  health  care,  as  part  of  our 
country’s  human  capital  development  agenda.  My 
Government is intensifying efforts to improve national 
health-care delivery by allocating substantial resources 
to  primary  health  care.  We 
to  a 
productive  outcome  to  the  High-level  Meeting  on  the 
Prevention 
and  Control  of  Non-communicable 
Diseases at the end of that meeting.  

In  the  same  vein,  I  welcome  discussions  at  the 
High-level  Meeting  on  desertification  and 
land 
degradation,  as 
to  pose 
challenges  to  our  development  efforts.  That  is  why 
Nigeria 
the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  and  the 
Convention 
including 
strategies and best practices to address this challenge. 

In  order  to  demonstrate  our  commitment  to 
human rights, Nigeria recently ratified the Convention 
on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and acceded 
to  four  other  international  human  rights  instruments, 
including  the  Optional  Protocol  to  the  Convention 
against Torture and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading 
Treatment or Punishment.  
In addition, this year, my Government passed into 

law 
the  National  Human  Rights  Commission 
Amendment  Act,  the  Legal  Aid  Council  Amendment 
Act  and  the  Freedom  of  Information Act.  Nigeria  will 
continue to accord the highest priority to human rights 
issues,  as  they  speak  directly  to  the  dignity  and 
inalienable rights of humankind. 
on  Biological  Diversity, 
issues  continue 
supports 
strongly 
these 
11-50692 

45 
realities  can  provide.  I  urge  the  President  of  the 
General Assembly to set up clear criteria for the reform 
of the Security Council in line with the demand of the 
majority of the world. A reformed Security Council is 
the  only  way  to  demonstrate  that  all  nations  have  an 
equal  stake  in  the  United  Nations.  Nigeria  looks 
forward  to  the  prospect  of  membership  in  a  reformed 
Security Council. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, 
the  President  and 
Commander-in-Chief  of  the  Armed  Forces  of  the 
Federal  Republic  of  Nigeria  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made. 

Mr.  Goodluck  Ebele  Jonathan,  President  and 
Commander-in-Chief  of  the Armed  Forces  of  the 
Federal  Republic  of  Nigeria,  was  escorted  from 
the General Assembly Hall. 
I  wish 
thank 
to 
into 



A/66/PV.11 


We in West Africa are passing through an exciting 
season  of  democratic  rebirth.  Before  the  end  of  2011, 
elections  will  have  been  held  in  six  countries  in West 
Africa. Those elections will set the respective countries 
along  the  path  of  political  stability,  progress,  good 
governance  and  sustainable  development  —  some  of 
the  benefits  of  which  we  have  begun  to  experience. 
The  progress  we  have  made  would  not  have  been 
possible without the support of the United Nations. 

The resolution of the conflict in Côte d’Ivoire is a 
case  in  point.  I  consider  the  inauguration  of  President 
Ouattara  a  success  not  just  for  Côte  d’Ivoire  but  also 
for the international community, which spoke with one 
voice  and  acted  in  concert  in  support  of  the  Ivorian 
people. The end of that crisis must be seen by all as the 
beginning of  our journey towards the  consolidation  of 
democratic  culture  and  good  governance  in  Africa. 
Having  put  that  crisis  behind  us,  the  international 
community  must  now  provide  robust  assistance  to  the 
country  as  it  embarks  on  the  tasks  of  post-conflict 
reconstruction and national reconciliation. 

The  struggle  for  self-governance  and  majority 
rule in Africa started in the 1940s; and by 1957 Ghana 
had  gained  independence.  Today,  all  African  States 
have  achieved  self-determination  and  majority  rule. 
Those  are  no  small  achievements.  But  we  still  have 
much work to do. A great deal of the work that remains 
is  to  build  viable  and  capable  States  in Africa  on  the 
principles of popular participation, the rule of law and 
respect  for  human  rights,  as  we  pledged  to  do  in  the 
Constitutive Act of the African Union. Nigeria believes 
that those values must remain at the core of governance 
in Africa if we are ever to achieve the goals of stability, 
security and development. 

As Nigeria is approaching the end of its tenure on 
the  Security  Council,  I  would  like  to  express  my 
country’s deep appreciation for the opportunity to serve 
in 
the  course  of  our 
stewardship,  the  Council  had  the  courage  to  reach 
many  difficult  decisions  that  resulted  in  positive 
developments  around  the  world.  We  are  proud  to  be 
associated  with  those  decisions.  I  would  like  to  urge 
the  Council  to  continue  its  important  work  in  the 
maintenance of international peace and security.  

In spite of the Council’s many successes, it is our 
belief that that important organ would benefit from the 
vigour  and  fresh  perspectives  that  only  a  revamped 
Council  accommodating  changing  global  political 
important  organ.  In 
that 
Address by Mr. Toomas Hendrik Ilves, President 
of Estonia 
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Republic of Estonia. 

Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Estonia,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves, 
President of the Republic of Estonia, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly. 
President  Ilves:  I  would  first  of  all  like  to 

congratulate  Ambassador  Al-Nasser  on  assuming  the 
presidency of the General Assembly.  

the 
restoration of Estonia’s independence, not surprisingly, 
coincides with our twentieth year of membership in the 
United  Nations  and  our  participation  in  the  General 
Assembly.  Given  where  we  were  then,  in  1991  —  a 
poor  and  beleaguered  country,  brutalized  by  a  half-
century  of  thuggish  Soviet,  then  Nazi,  and  then  again 
Soviet  occupation  —  our 
in  one 
generation  to  a  modern,  technologically  cutting-edge 
European  democracy 
to  what  a 
committed people can do. It is, as well, a challenge to 
those  who 
implementing 
twentieth  anniversary 
transformation 
find  excuses 
this  year  of 
testament 
for  not 
is  a 
The 
46 

11-50692 
that 
rusty 
edifice 
crumbling  of 


democracy,  for  not  eliminating  corruption  and  for 
continuing to brutalize their citizens. 

Today,  20  years  after  the  bumbling  coup  and 
ensuing 
of 
totalitarianism, the Soviet Union, we again smell in the 
air  the  hope  of  liberty  and  democracy  —  this  time  in 
the  Middle  East  and  North Africa. Again  people  have 
come  together  and  said,  “Enough!”  —  of  the  lies,  the 
corruption  and  the  3  a.m.  knock  on  the  door  by  the 
dull-brained goons of the secret police. People want to 
be able to speak their minds and to run their own lives, 
free  of  harassment,  or  worse,  by  the  authorities.  In  a 
word,  people  want  democracy.  They  want,  too,  the 
foundations  of  democracy:  respect  for  human  rights, 
the  rule  of  law  and  the  freedom  of  speech  and 
assembly. 

With those hopes in the hearts of so many people 
in  this  year  of  otherwise  dismal  and  tawdry  news, 
Estonia  welcomes  — 
indeed  wholeheartedly 
encourages — the United Nations to move forward on 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon’s  decision  to  focus 
during  his  second  term  on  democracy  and  human 
rights.  Estonia  welcomes 
that  decision  because, 
frankly,  the  results  of  the  democracy  movements  of  a 
generation  ago  have  not  even  come  close  to  what  we 
hoped  for  at  the  time.  Most  of  the  people  who  lived 
under  undemocratic  rule  two  decades  ago  continue  to 
do so today. Of what was the Soviet Union then, only 
Estonia,  Latvia  and  Lithuania  have  earned 
the 
designation  “free”  in  Freedom  House’s  annual  report 
card  on  the  rule  of  law,  respect  for  fundamental 
freedoms and free and fair elections. That, I submit, is 
a poor result. 

Each  country  and  each  situation  is  of  course 
different.  No  textbook  rules  can  tell  us  how  to  make 
democracy work or how to build a prosperous society. 
A  few  basic  tenets  and  lessons,  however,  hold  across 
nations,  experiences  and  cultures. The  United  Nations 
own  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  —  a 
document  everyone  here  is  obliged  to  adhere  to  — 
after all, is based on the premise of common truths held 
by all. 

Democracy, as I said, is not only about voting and 
free  and  fair  elections,  vital  though  they  are  for  any 
free  and  democratic  society.  Respect  for  human  rights 
and  the  rule  of  law  constitute  the  cornerstones  of  an 
open  society.  If  one  cannot  speak  their  mind  or  be 
guaranteed  a  fair  trial  if  arrested,  it  matters  little  that 
A/66/PV.11
they can go to the polling booth. Rights and freedoms 
belong  to  each  and  every  person.  They  are  not  the 
privilege  of  a  select  few  with  the  money,  the  guns  or 
the power. 

For Estonia, it is of fundamental importance that 
the North African and Middle Eastern revolutions have 
been  popular  reactions  to  sustained  violations  of 
human rights, corruption and injustice. The revolutions 
confirm the universal aspiration to realize one’s human 
rights.  They  show  once  again,  as  throughout  history, 
that  people  naturally  want  to  be  free  from  fear  and 
repression.  Notice  I  said  people,  not  “men”.  As  long 
ago as 2,500 years ago, Aristotle noted that where “the 
state  of  women  is  bad,  almost  half  of  human  life  is 
spoilt”. This  is  no  less  true  today  and  will  remain  so. 
The  ongoing  revolutions  could  not  have  occurred  and 
cannot succeed without women.  

It  is  a  profound  source  of  concern  to  Estonia  to 
notice  that,  while  women  are  welcome  to  protest 
against  corrupt  regimes,  they  are  not  always  welcome 
to participate in the political process. Estonia therefore 
places  great  hopes  on  the  United  Nations  new  gender 
entity, UN-Women, and will continue to insist that the 
United  Nations  as  a  whole  do  its  part  globally  by 
standing  up  for  women’s  rights.  We  also  expect  that 
UN-Women will play an active role in helping to take 
the  principles  of  Security  Council  resolution  1325 
(2000) on women and peace and security from paper to 
reality. 

For  as  long  as  we  have  lived  as  a  free  nation, 
Estonia  has  always  protected  and  promoted  human 
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  at  home  and  abroad. 
Our  candidature  to  the  Human  Rights  Council  is  a 
logical consequence of our work, but it is certainly not 
the  culmination  as  we  continue  to  live  up  to  our 
national and international obligations. 

Once  again,  ongoing  events  underline  the  need 
for  us  to  focus  on  the  protection  of  civilians  from 
atrocities. Even in the democratic part of my continent, 
the political project we today call the European Union 
was  a  reaction  to  mass  murder  and  war.  The  very 
history of Europe motivates us to take preventive steps 
to avoid any repetition of such crimes. Therefore, it is 
vital  that  we  develop  common  practices  and  the 
capacity 
the 
responsibility  to  protect.  Protecting  civilians  from 
atrocities, dear colleagues, is not just about protection. 
the  principle  of 
implement 
to 
11-50692 

47 

A/66/PV.11 

It  also  means  bringing  the  perpetrators  of  crimes  and 
atrocities against civilians to justice.  

International  law,  in  particular  the  International 
Criminal Court, and the understanding that justice will 
be done, no matter how long it takes, are the tools we 
possess  to  prevent  the  worst  human  rights  violations. 
The  rule  of  law  and  respect  for  international  law  are 
what  will  help  ravaged  and  victimized  societies  to 
regain their dignity and rebuild their communities. The 
common  efforts  of  the  international  community,  the 
International  Criminal  Court  and  its  States  parties 
remain a priority for my country. 

While  focusing  on  the  pertinent  issues  of  the 
present,  we  must  not  shy  away  from  addressing  the 
unresolved issues of the recent past. Afghanistan is one 
of  those.  Establishing  lasting  security  there  remains  a 
key  objective  for  Estonia. To  reach  that  objective,  we 
must  focus  on  assisting  Afghan  efforts  to  further 
develop  good  governance  and  the  rule  of  law.  Along 
with  human  rights,  these  are  the  crucial  elements  of  a 
sustainable society. We believe that we must all remain 
committed as long as is necessary to reach this goal. To 
that end, Estonia will continue to support the access of 
Afghans,  in  particular  women  and  children,  to  health 
care 
development 
cooperation projects. 

Georgia  is  another  country  that  continues  to 
require  our  attention.  The  2008  war  ended  with  the 
violation  of  Georgian  territorial  integrity,  which  is  a 
fundamental violation of international law that remains 
unresolved  to  this  day.  The  fundamental  principles  of 
international  law  must  be  followed  by  all  members  of 
the  international  community  and  not  just  the  small, 
who  have  no  other  recourse.  Additionally,  we  should 
continue  to  support  the  Geneva  talks.  The  United 
Nations  involvement  is  of  the  utmost  importance  and 
must continue in the future. 

Here today in the United Nations, our attention is 
also focused on Israel and Palestine. A viable two-State 
solution  must  take  into  consideration  the  legitimate 
concerns of both sides for their well-being, safety and 
prosperity. 
Another  security-  and  human  rights-related  topic 

is the Internet, especially these days, when it has come 
to  play  such  an  important  role  in  democratization  by 
enabling  political  discussion  and  mobilizing  popular 
movements.  The  Internet  has  grown  beyond  all 
expectations  since  people  began  to  use  it  regularly 
education 
through 
and 
its 
that, 
in 
and 
and 
openness 
increasing 
transparency 
the  world  over 
some  20  years  ago.  Its  global,  ipso  facto  cross-border 
nature  allows  users 
to  access 
information and ideas, to communicate with each other 
and to learn. Estonia firmly believes that States should 
ensure  that  their  people  can  freely  seek,  receive  and 
impart  information  and  ideas  and  have  access  to  the 
Internet.  In  fact,  Estonia  believes 
this 
technological age, unimpeded access to the Internet is a 
human right. 

A  transparent  Government  and  administration,  a 
liberal economic environment and a strong educational 
system  all  have  contributed  to  Estonia’s  success. 
Estonia’s  development  over  the  past  20  years  is  proof 
that  information  and  communications  technology  can 
be a springboard to success for all States. We are quite 
willing to continue to share our experience, especially 
in 
in 
Government, with other countries. 

The  Internet,  however,  poses  many  dangers  as 
well.  Increasingly  disruptive  cyberthreats  and  attacks 
that  can  seriously  harm  entire  communities  and, 
indeed, cause harm to countless individuals, are a new 
danger  that  we  face.  The  large-scale  cyberattacks 
against  Estonia  in  2007  created  a  new  awareness 
among our people. The steps Estonia has taken towards 
a  more  secure  Internet,  however,  do  not  restrict  our 
people’s  freedoms.  In  fact,  Freedom  House’s  global 
assessment  of  Freedom  on  the  Net  2011  rated  Estonia 
as the freest in the world, demonstrating that a proper 
balance  between  rights  and  security  can  be  found 
without compromising either. 

We  also  bear  responsibility  for  the  environment 
we  live  in.  It  was  no  accident  that  the  democratic 
revolutions  of  Central  and  Eastern  Europe  were 
accompanied, 
instigated,  by 
environmental movements. Citizens had become fed up 
with  the  totalitarian  system’s  abuse  of  nature  and 
disregard  for  human  beings.  Ignoring  the  state  of  its 
citizens’ health and surroundings, the totalitarian State 
exposed itself to be what it was — a self-serving clique 
hell-bent on maintaining its power, no matter what the 
cost  to  its  people,  no  matter  what  pain  and  suffering 
ensued. 

Today,  the  challenge  we  face  is  global.  It  is 
climate  change.  Estonia’s  2010  national  security 
concept  states  that  climate  change  is  also  a  security 
issue  and  can  have  a  destabilizing  effect.  Estonia 
already  has  decided  to  contribute  to  the  fast-track 
indeed  often 
48 

11-50692 
to 
its  contribution 


financing  of  efforts  to  combat  climate  change.  We 
believe  that  sustainable  development  and  the  green 
economy  need  a  global  approach,  as  exemplified  by 
preparations  for  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable Development next year.  

One  already  evident  consequence  of  climate 
change  is  an  increase  in  the  number  of  people  who 
need  clean  water  and  food.  Estonia  will  continue  to 
increase 
the  United  Nations 
humanitarian system. 
While  the  world’s  humanitarian  needs  grow,  we 

require increased coordination and strict scrutiny of the 
real needs of aid recipients. As donor Governments, we 
are  doubly  accountable,  first  to  those  who  require 
assistance;  but  we  are  also  accountable 
to  our 
taxpayers  for  the  effective  use  of  every  Euro  cent.  If 
our taxpayers believe that Government is spending tax 
money  unwisely  or  ineffectively,  they  will  vote  for  a 
Government  that  cares  less  for  foreign  assistance 
expenditures.  In  these  days  of  ever  greater  financial 
difficulty in donor countries themselves, this is not an 
observation to be ignored. 
The  many  times  I  have  addressed  the  General 

Assembly,  I  have  deliberated  on  the  nature  of  the 
United  Nations  and  the  need  for  reform.  The  United 
Nations  needs  to  change  as  the  world  around  us 
changes.  System-wide  coherence,  delivering  as  one, 
and revitalization of the General Assembly are steps in 
the right direction.  

We welcome these changes, yet at the same time 
Estonia sincerely hopes that the same spirit will prevail 
in  reform  of  the  Security  Council.  If  nations  are  not 
given  a  fair  and  equitable  voice,  proportional  and 
appropriate to its role in today’s world — not the world 
of 1945 — we will find that the Organization has ever 
less credibility. I propose that we adopt a new attitude 
of openness to new developments in order to make sure 
that the United Nations as a whole can better deliver on 
the  undoubtedly  important  issues  for  which  it  is 
responsible. 

In conclusion, let me say that history did not end 
20  years  ago  with  the  re-emergence  of  democratic 
nations in Central and Eastern Europe. Nor will history 
end with the Arab Spring. Democracy, freedom, human 
rights, the rule of law and sustainable development all 
require constant and consistent support and protection. 
A/66/PV.11

The world faces challenges, new and old. We face 
them daily. Today, as we commemorate the victims of 
the  9/11  terrorist  attack  ten  years  ago  here  in  New 
York,  we  recognize  how  much  the  world  has  changed 
since the United Nations was founded 66 years ago. We 
must  address  and  act  upon  these  new  challenges.  It  is 
we,  the  United  Nations,  who  need  to  keep  pace  with 
changes  and  developments  in  the  world  we  live  in  to 
protect and promote universal values across the globe. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of Estonia for 
the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Toomas  Hendrik  Ilves,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Estonia,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.  


Address by Her Excellency Ms. Micheline Calmy-
Rey, President of the Swiss Confederation  
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  hear 

an address by the President of the Swiss Confederation. 
Ms. Micheline Calmy-Rey, President of the Swiss 

Confederation,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Micheline  Calmy-Rey, 
President of the Swiss Confederation, and to invite her 
to address the Assembly. 
President  Calmy-Rey  (spoke  in  French):  How 

can  we  shape  development  policy  that  is  of  benefit  to 
all?  The  per  capita  gross  domestic  product  of 
Switzerland is 130 times higher than that of a country 
such  as  Mozambique.  Why  do  the  poorest  countries 
benefit so little from globalization, and what can we do 
to  change  this?  One-quarter  of  the  world’s  population 
consumes three-quarters of the available raw materials. 
How  can  we  ensure  that  nearly  7  billion  individuals 
have  enough  water,  food  and  energy  at  affordable 
prices? And what happened to equity and social justice 
in the twenty-first century? 

It is up to us together to find the answers to these 
questions.  That  will  require  us  to  have  a  sense  of 
responsibility  and  to  be  ready  to  reflect  together  on 
norms, values and priorities. 

More  than  any  other  international  organization, 
the United Nations has the potential and the necessary 
11-50692 

49 
today  and 
the  fact 
fragmented  and 
A/66/PV.11 

conditions  to  support  States  in  these  efforts.  Since  its 
founding,  the  United  Nations  has  developed  into  a 
dense  institutional  network.  International  governance 
remains 
inefficient.  Governance 
structures  need  to  be  strengthened  if  the  United 
Nations  is  to  succeed  as  the  driving  force  towards 
sustainable development. 

Events  in  the  Arab  world  have  been  a  reminder 
that  democracy  and  sustainable  development  go  hand 
in hand. Indeed, it was ultimately the lack of political 
freedom,  combined  with  injustice  and  a  lack  of 
economic  prospects,  that  unleashed  the  fundamental 
changes  that  have  so  surprised  us.  Many  nations  are 
facing  difficult  changes 
that 
relations among States and between the region and the 
rest  of  the  world  need  to  be  based  on  new  principles. 
This  is  a  challenge  to  the  countries  themselves  and  to 
the  new  social  groups  driving  the  change:  youth, 
women,  the  emerging  middle  classes  and  civil  society 
as  a  whole.  But  it  is  also  a  challenge  to  the  countries 
and Governments of the region, as well as for us all as 
Members of the United Nations. 

We must do our best to ensure that effective aid is 
provided quickly to the victims of unrest and violence. 
We  must  ensure  that  security  and  the  rule  of  law  are 
strengthened. We must contribute to inclusive political 
dialogue,  promoting  national 
reconciliation  and 
legitimate efforts to create new constitutions. We must 
extend  the  authority  of  State  institutions  and  restore 
public  services.  We  must  help  to  protect  the  human 
rights  of  all  and  support  transitional  justice.  We  must 
also  support  immediate  economic  recovery  measures. 
Only through such a wide-ranging programme, backed 
by an international community in which each member 
is ready to make a constructive contribution, will it be 
possible  to  create  more  favourable  conditions  for 
sustainable development. 

I  note  with  regret  that  the  spirit  of  optimism 
borne of the Arab Spring has not breathed new life into 
the  Middle  East  peace  process.  We  remember  the 
words  of  President  Obama  before 
the  General 
Assembly a year ago well — words that encouraged us 
to  hope  for  change.  For  a  few  minutes,  we  dreamed 
together of  

“the  young  girl  in  Gaza  who  wants  to  have  no 
ceiling on her dreams or the young boy in Sderot 
who  wants  to  sleep  without  the  nightmare  of 
rocket fire” (A/65/PV.11, p. 12).  

We  entertained  the  hope  that,  together  with  Palestine 
and Israel, we could succeed in reaching an agreement 
that would allow us to welcome a new Member to the 
United  Nations  —  a  sovereign  and 
independent 
Palestine, living side by side in peace with Israel. 

Somberly,  we  note  instead  that  the  past  year  has 
been  a  year  of  deadlock  with  no  progress  but 
stagnation,  and  even  a  hardening  of  positions.  For 
more  than  60  years,  the  international  community  has 
failed  to  resolve  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict.  The 
so-called peace process has replaced peace. In order to 
return  peace  to  the  centre  of  the  stage,  influential 
people  on  both  sides  have  attempted  to  implement  a 
tangible and lasting vision. We gave them our support 
and  facilitated  a  model  agreement.  The  Geneva 
initiative  is  today  a  consolidated,  detailed  proposal 
compatible  with  internationally  accepted  parameters, 
including  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative.  It  remains  at  the 
disposal  of  the  decision-makers,  as  well  as  of  the 
populations whose right it is to demand peace. 

Preventing  future  wars  was  the  goal  of  the 
founding  of  the  United  Nations.  Today,  it  remains 
among the noblest objectives of this Organization. The 
past  two  decades  have  shown  that  the  international 
community  has  every  interest  in  finding  ways  to 
strengthen its efforts in the area of mediation. Indeed, 
it is in a negotiated solution rather than military victory 
that a lasting solution will be found for the majority of 
conflicts.  

The  Security  Council  plays  an  important  role  in 
the  prevention  of  conflicts.  Switzerland  would 
welcome  a  stronger  and  more  lasting  commitment  to 
preventive  diplomacy  on  the  part  of  the  Security 
Council. If the Security Council is to be able to make a 
worthwhile  contribution  to  peace  and  security,  it  must 
adapt  to  new  realities  and  reflect  the  new  political 
balance  of  power  of  the  twenty-first  century.  I  should 
also  like  it  to  be  more  transparent  and  open  and  to 
fulfil its duty of remaining accountable to the Member 
States.  

Ultimately, the decisions of the Security Council 
have  a  direct  impact  on  all  States  in  ways  that  are 
legally  binding.  That  is  why  Switzerland  advocates, 
along  with  its  partners  in  the  so-called  small  five 
group, improvement of the Council’s working methods. 
The  small  five’s  proposals  are  practical  and  concrete. 
They  can  be  implemented  immediately  without  any 
need to amend the United Nations Charter.  
11-50692 
50 

to  accept  greater 
responsibility 
for 
However, 
the  United  Nations  will  be 



truly 
strengthened  only  if  those  countries  that  rightly  insist 
on  having  greater  participation  also  show  themselves 
ready 
the 
Organization’s  proper  functioning  and  its  financial 
situation. 

The  United  Nations  is  unique  in  being  the  only 
Organization  that  offers  all  the  countries  of  the  world 
the  opportunity  to  join  together  to  address  the  whole 
range of international challenges to peace and security, 
ranging  from 
to 
sustainable  development.  Switzerland 
to 
contribute,  and  we  look  forward  to  working  together  

the  protection  of  human  rights 
is  ready 
A/66/PV.11
with  the  new  President  of  the  General  Assembly, 
Mr. Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser,  whom  I  congratulate 
on his election and offer the full support of my country 
during this sixty-sixth session of the Assembly. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the  Swiss 
Confederation for the statement she has just made. 

Ms. Micheline Calmy-Rey, President of the Swiss 
Confederation,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.  
  The meeting rose at 2.55 p.m. 


11-50692 

51 
