
A/66/PV.20
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

20th plenary meeting 
Friday, 23 September 2011, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 
namely, the Arab Spring, sustainable development and 
the  prevention  and  control  of  non-communicable 
diseases. 

More  than  20  years  ago,  Central  and  Eastern 
Europe, including my country, Hungary, was the scene 
of sweeping political changes. Beginning in early 2011, 
the  world  has  witnessed,  yet  again,  the  outburst  of 
popular  will  for  profound  transformation,  this  time  in 
North  Africa  and  the  Middle  East.  Those  of  us  who 
took active part in the democratization process and the 
transition  to  the  rule  of  law  and  market  economies  in 
our region have been following the events of the Arab 
Spring with great empathy and understanding.  

The  revolutions  leading  to  sweeping  shifts  in 
Tunisia, Egypt and other countries were equally driven 
by  sincere  desires  for  a  better  life  and  for  putting  in 
place  new  political 
systems  capable  of  better 
responding to the aspirations of all parts of society. The 
voices  of  Tahrir  Square  echoed  the  aspirations  of 
millions of people. 

is, 
nevertheless,  only  the  first  step  in  that  direction.  As 
shown by our own experience, the most difficult stages 
of  the  transformation  process  are  yet  to  come.  The 
victorious  popular  uprisings  of  the  Arab  Spring  have 
encountered 
terms  of 
establishing  new  power  structures,  drafting  new 
constitutions  and  other  basic 
laws,  as  well  as 
conducting  free  and  democratic  elections,  just  to 
mention  a  few.  Essentially  those  measures  require  an 
tremendous  challenges 
The  overthrow  of 
autocratic 
regimes 
in 







  In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Cazeau 
(Haiti), Vice-President, took the Chair.
  The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.  

Address by His Excellency Mr. Pál Schmitt, 
President of the Republic of Hungary 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Hungary. 

Mr.  Pál  Schmitt,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Hungary, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Pál 
Schmitt, President of the  Republic of Hungary, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 

President Schmitt: Let me at the outset welcome 
South  Sudan  as  the  193rd  Member  of  the  United 
Nations.  I  commend  the  successful  conduct  of  the 
referendum on independence as a manifestation of the 
principle  of  self-determination.  That  historic  act  has 
put an end to a long civil war on the African continent 
and  opened  up  new  horizons  for  the  stability  and 
prosperity of the people of South Sudan. 

Hungary  fully  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
made earlier by President Van Rompuy on behalf of the 
European  Union.  To  complement  this,  allow  me  to 
outline  my  country’s  position  on  three  issues  figuring 
high  on  our  foreign  policy  and  development  agenda, 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-51191 (E) 
*1151191* 




A/66/PV.20 

internally  driven  process,  carried  out  with  the  support 
of the international community. 

Hungarian  society  has,  on  the  one  hand,  already 
successfully met many of those challenges and, on the 
other  hand,  made  some  avoidable  mistakes.  We 
therefore feel equipped to share our experiences and to 
offer  a  substantive  toolkit  for  good  governance  and 
democratic  change.  As  a  good  friend  and  supporting 
partner,  Hungary  truly  hopes  that  those  undergoing 
transitional  periods  today  will be  able  to  benefit  from 
both our achievements and our omissions. 

Far be it from us, of course, to try to give advice 
or  provide  ready-made  solutions.  While  we  advocate 
the  universal  character  of  human 
rights  and 
fundamental freedoms, as well as the virtues of the rule 
of  law  and  good  governance,  we  believe  that  those 
ideals  can  be  implemented  only  in  conjunction  with 
respect for the cultural, religious and other traditions of 
each nation. 
At this stage of what we see as a long transformation 

process in the Arab world, we thus offer to share our own 
and 
experiences 
learned.  The  Hungarian 
in  cooperation  with  non-governmental 
Government, 
organizations,  has  already  carried  out,  and  plans  to 
carry  out  in  future,  concrete  projects  and  programmes 
aimed  at,  inter  alia,  assisting  the  new  emerging 
democracies in North Africa and the Middle East in the 
field of institution-building, security-sector reform, and 
drawing up the legislative framework for political and 
economic  renewal.  We  welcome  the  central  role  and 
increasing  involvement  of  the  United  Nations  and  its 
various  agencies  in  support  of  the  democratization  of 
those countries. Hungary stands ready to contribute to 
such efforts and provide its specialized expertise. 
Over  the  past  two  decades,  since  the  Earth 

Summit in Rio de Janeiro in 1992, the three pillars of 
sustainable  development  have  been  the  focus  of  the 
international development agenda. Time has shown that 
only  a  coherent  approach 
the  environmental, 
economic and social aspects of this concept can ensure 
the  long-term  survival  and  prosperity  of  mankind. We 
should  not  miss  this  chance  to  formulate  new  courses 
of 
reinforced  mutual 
interdependence and globalization. 

the  constantly 
deteriorating  global  environment,  it  is  an  increasingly 
demanding 
the  necessary  balance 
between ensuring growth in all regions of the world, a 
the  background  of 
to  strike 
era  of 
Against 
lessons 
action 
task 
to 
in 
this 
of 
the 
sustainability 
decent  life  for  our  societies  and  the  preservation  of 
natural resources in the interests of the survival of our 
planet.  One  of  the  responses  to  this  dilemma  is  the 
concept  of  a  green  economy,  which  is  gaining  ever-
greater  support.  We  consider  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  as  a  unique 
event  aimed  at  generating  the  widest  possible  support 
for and acceptance of this green concept. Its goal is to 
support 
socio-economic 
development at the national, regional and global levels.  

In  addition,  the  concept  of  a  green  economy  has 
the potential to also contribute to job creation and the 
eradication  of  poverty.  If  implemented  in  a  coherent 
manner,  it  will  create  new  resources  for  achieving  the 
internationally  agreed  development  goals.  There  is  no 
doubt that achieving these goals will require innovative 
thinking  in  terms  of  technology  transfer,  investment 
and fair trade. 

In  order  to  put  this  concept  into  practice,  a 
reorganization of the environmental architecture of the 
United  Nations  is  needed.  Such  reform  should  pursue 
the  goal  of  streamlining  and  unifying  the  existing 
structures, with a view to increasing the coherence and 
efficiency of the system as a whole. 

It  is  our  shared  responsibility  to  develop  joint 
strategies to mitigate the effects of non-communicable 
diseases. Their rapid growth is preventable and can be 
controlled to a significant extent. Hungary has been in 
the  forefront  of  this  fight,  with  national  cancer  and 
diabetes control systems in place that may contribute to 
paving  the  way  for  functional  alternatives  around  the 
world.  It  is  also  our  fundamental  belief  that  the 
development  of  comprehensive  national  and  regional 
strategies  for  control  programmes  can  significantly 
lower  the  incidence  of  these  illnesses.  This  can 
contribute  to  prevention,  early  detection  and  adequate 
treatment in a cost-effective way. We are also proud of 
Hungary’s 
sharing 
knowledge  and  providing  educational  and  training 
programmes for students and experts from all over the 
world.  In  the  past  decades,  hundreds  of  students  from 
outside  Hungary  have  obtained  their  medical  degrees 
in  our  country.  We  are  cooperating  with  various 
countries, sharing knowledge and experiences in order 
to  contribute  to  the  collective  efforts  that  need  to  be 
made to bring about better health worldwide. 

The  High-level  Meeting  gave  momentum  to  this 
fight,  which  needs  to  be  fought  not  only  on  an 
long-standing 
tradition 
of 
2 

11-51191 
the 


individual  level  by  the  victims  of  these  diseases,  but 
also  by  our  countries  and  by 
international 
community working together. We need to capitalize on 
this in order to reach the ultimate goal of saving lives 
around  the  world  and  thereby  move  further  towards 
one  of  the  founding  objectives  of  the  United  Nations: 
human development. 

As members may know, Hungary has put forward 
its  candidacy  for  Security  Council  membership  in 
2012-2013.  We  continue  to  uphold  the  principles  and 
objectives  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  international  law,  such  as  the  equality  of 
nations, the peaceful settlement of disputes and respect 
for  human  rights.  Hungary  also  stands  ready  to 
contribute  in  a  meaningful  way  to  all  efforts  aimed  at 
enhancing the capabilities of the United Nations in the 
field of conflict prevention and mediation. We believe 
in an integrated approach to conflict resolution and will 
advocate  a  stronger 
integration  of  security  and 
development concerns, as well as enhanced interaction 
between  the  Council  and  other  main  organs  of  the 
United Nations. 

Let  me  conclude  by  assuring  the Assembly  once 
again  that  Hungary  will  continue  to  contribute  its 
utmost  to  strengthening  the  global  cooperation  of 
countries  within  the  United  Nations  system,  which  is 
so strongly needed to tackle today’s challenges. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Hungary for the statement 
he has just made. 

Mr.  Pál  Schmitt,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Hungary,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall.  
from 


Address by Mr. Ernest Bai Koroma, President of the 
Republic of Sierra Leone 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Sierra Leone. 

Mr. Ernest Bai Koroma, President of the Republic 
of  Sierra  Leone,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Ernest  Bai  Koroma,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
to 
A/66/PV.20
Secretary-General’s 
Sierra  Leone,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.  
President Koroma: I am honoured to address the 

Assembly once again. Let me, first of all, congratulate 
the  President  on  his  election  to  his  duties  of  directing 
the affairs of the Assembly at its sixty-sixth session. I 
would  like  to  assure  him  of  our  full  support  and 
cooperation throughout his tenure. And I commend his 
predecessor, Mr. Joseph Deiss, for a job well done. We 
appreciate 
important 
contribution  to  the  work  of  the  Organization  and 
congratulate him on his recent appointment to a second 
term. 

On  behalf  of  the  Government  and  people  of 
Sierra Leone, let me take this opportunity to welcome 
the  Republic  of  South  Sudan,  the  newest  Member  of 
the  United  Nations 
family  and  our  continental 
organization, the African Union. We congratulate them 
on this achievement and wish them well. 
Sierra  Leone  is  a  nation  with  a  relatively  small 

territory  and  population,  but  our  aspirations 
to 
democracy,  prosperity  and  international  peace  are  as 
big  as  any  nation’s,  and  our  commitment  to  those 
ideals  has  been  visibly  demonstrated  in  the  course  of 
our 50 years as an independent nation. We are proud of 
the  distinctive  contributions  we  have  made  to  the 
United Nations over the past half-century in areas such 
as  decolonization; 
the 
and 
international 
civil 
light 
non-proliferation, 
weapons; 
the 
and 
law;  and,  currently, 
development  of 
international 
reform of the Security Council. 

It  is  worth  mentioning  that,  soon  after  our 
admission  to  the  United  Nations,  we  contributed  a 
small  peacekeeping  contingent  to  the  United  Nations 
Operation 
to 
international peace is evidenced by our transformation 
from  a  nation  that  received  one  of  the  largest  ever 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions  in  the  late 
1990s  to  a  country  that  today  contributes  troops  and 
police officers to peacekeeping missions in Darfur. We 
have  also  developed  a  proposal  to  participate  in  the 
African  Union  Mission  in  Somalia. At  the  same  time, 
we  acknowledge  with  gratitude  the  enormous  impact 
that  the  United  Nations  family  has  had  on  the 
maintenance  of  peace,  governance  and  economic  and 
research; 
disarmament 
including  small  arms  and 
peacekeeping; 
the  Congo.  Our  commitment 
training 
service; 
peacemaking 
and 
the 
in 
11-51191 

3 

A/66/PV.20 

social development in my country since our admission 
to the Organization, 50 years ago. 

In  my  capacity  as  Chair  of  the  African  Union 
Committee  of Ten  Heads  of  State  and  Government  on 
the  Reform  of  the  United  Nations  Security  Council,  I 
must emphasize that reform of the Council is urgently 
required  for  the  wider  United  Nations  membership  to 
fully benefit  from the Council’s purposes and primary 
objective  of  maintaining 
international  peace  and 
security.  There  is  an  increasing  need  for  the  Security 
Council  to  be  more  representative,  inclusive  and 
democratic,  as  well  as  for  an  improvement  in  its 
working  methods  and  its  relations  with  the  General 
Assembly. The status quo is increasingly unacceptable 
and  has  the  potential  to  undermine  the  legitimacy, 
effectiveness  and  efficiency  of  the  Council’s  work  in 
maintaining international peace and security. 

It  is  therefore  imperative  that  we  reaffirm  our 
commitment  to  the  standards  and  principles  of  this 
noble Organization by generating the political will for 
a  reformed  Security  Council  that  would  pave  the  way 
for  correcting  the  historical  injustice  done  to  Africa, 
through  the  allocation  during  this  session  of  two 
permanent  and  five  non-permanent  seats  to Africa,  in 
accordance with the United Nations Charter. 
Since  I  addressed  the Assembly  last  year,  Sierra 

Leone  has  continued 
to  make  steady  progress, 
particularly  in  the  priority  sectors  outlined  in  my 
Government’s  agenda  for  change,  namely,  agriculture, 
energy, infrastructure, health and education. Those five 
sectors  were  purposely  selected  from  many  others 
requiring  transformation  because  we  believe  they  can 
have  the  greatest  positive  impact  on  the  lives  of  our 
people. We have done so against the background of the 
unprecedented challenges facing our world today, such 
as the rise in fuel and food prices, the global financial 
crisis,  and  the  chain  of  unending  conflicts  around  the 
world. 

Inspired by the conviction that no goals, however 
comprehensive or meaningful, can be achieved without 
the sustained determination to implement them, I have 
declared  2011  the  year  of  implementation  for  Sierra 
Leone. Accordingly, my Government has demonstrated 
its  commitment  to  that  declaration.  We  are  going  to 
ensure  that  every  single  Sierra  Leonean  benefits  from 
the dividends of our well-earned peace and democracy. 
In spite of the many challenges that have impeded our 
capacity  to  complete  our  projects,  we  are  determined, 
to 
The 
establishment 
of 
as 
accelerate  our 
with  the  cooperation  and  support  of  our  development 
partners, 
country’s  positive 
transformation.  It  is  my  sincere  hope  that  successful 
implementation of the projects and programmes in the 
Joint  Vision  of  the  United  Nations  Family  for  Sierra 
Leone,  which  has  been  aligned  with  our  agenda  for 
change,  will  enhance  Sierra  Leone’s  efforts  to  attain 
the Millennium Development Goals. 
The economy of Sierra Leone, like many around 

the  world, 
is  currently  encountering  budgetary 
difficulties  that  can  be  traced  to  the  global  economic 
meltdown.  We  are,  however,  optimistic  about  future 
growth  levels.  We  expect  export  levels  to  increase, 
given  our  substantial  investment  in  developing  our 
infrastructure  and  ongoing  revamping  of  our  mining, 
agriculture  and  tourism  sectors.  We  have  also  put  in 
place strong corrective measures to stabilize the fiscal 
situation. 

We have continued to build on progress achieved 
in  the  area  of  peace  consolidation.  Our  democratic 
such 
institutions, 
the  National  Electoral 
Commission, 
the  Political  Parties  Registration 
Commission  and  the  Anti-Corruption  Commission, 
have  continued  to  make  progress  in  carrying  out  their 
respective  mandates.  We  have  also  continued  to  build 
on gains achieved in the areas of human rights, gender 
equality and women’s empowerment. 

a  Human  Rights 
Commission  of  Sierra  Leone  and  the  presentation  of 
our  national  report  to  the  Universal  Periodic  Review 
Working  Group  of  the  United  Nations  Human  Rights 
Council  in  May  this  year  are  clear  manifestations  of 
our  commitment  to  build  a  human  rights  regime  that 
respects international norms and practices. In June this 
year,  the  International  Coordinating  Committee  of 
National  Human  Rights  Institutions  awarded  an  “A” 
status  accreditation  to  the  Human  Rights  Commission 
of Siena Leone in recognition of its achievements and 
independence. 

I have pledged my support and initiated processes 
that will make women constitute at least 30 per cent of 
elective offices in our country. As a State party to many 
international  human 
instruments  we  are 
committed  to  their  implementation  and  respect  our 
reporting  obligations  under  the  relevant  conventions. 
We  have,  for  instance,  just  completed  our  sixth 
periodic report to the Committee on the Elimination of 
Discrimination  against  Women.  We  have  ratified  the 
rights 
4 

11-51191 
the 
fact 
that 
it 
to  peace, 
all  necessary 
As  we  prepare 
remain  committed 


United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  Persons 
with  Disabilities  and  have  commissioned  a  National 
Action Plan for the implementation of Security Council 
resolutions 1325 (2000) and 1820 (2008). 

for  our  2012  presidential, 
parliamentary  and  local  council  elections,  we  are 
cognizant  of 
is  our  primary 
responsibility  to  organize  and  provide  the  necessary 
logistical  requirements  for  this  democratic  process. 
However,  we  need 
international 
assistance in support of our commitment to ensure free, 
fair  and  peaceful  elections.  In  that  regard,  we  have 
continued  to  dialogue  with  all  stakeholders  including 
the  National  Electoral  Commission, 
the  Political 
Parties  Registration  Commission  and  political  parties. 
We 
security  and 
development,  but  the  need  to  continue  with  national 
capacity-building  programmes  in  priority  peacebuilding 
thematic  areas  beyond  the  2012  elections  remains 
critical. 

Recently,  peace  and  stability  were  not  only 
threatened but painfully disturbed by pockets of armed 
conflict in the subregion of the Economic Community 
of West African States, particularly in the Mano River 
Union  basin.  However,  we  are  encouraged  by  the 
unfolding developments and prospects of relative peace 
in  our  sister  republics.  At  the  same  time,  we  are 
concerned  about  the  continued  threats  posed  to  peace 
and stability by the illicit flow of small arms and light 
weapons 
International 
cooperation  and  assistance  are  necessary  in  order  to 
eradicate  this  menace.  Sierra  Leone,  for  its  part, 
recently launched a five-year action plan to expand the 
scope of its activities concerning small arms and light 
weapons. 

Considering  the  prevailing  incidence  of  violence 
and armed conflict in various regions of the world, the 
choice  of  the  theme,  “The  role  of  mediation  in  the 
settlement of disputes”, for this year’s general debate is 
relevant and appropriate. 

the 
inevitability of disputes in the conduct of inter-State as 
well  as  intra-State  relations.  But  it  is  imperative  to 
respect  the  set  of  principles  enshrined  in Article  2  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  in  our  interactions 
with each other. They include the sovereign equality of 
all United Nations Members, the peaceful settlement of 
Of  course,  we  are  quite  conscious  of 
subregion. 
across 
our 
A/66/PV.20
the 
remains 
Obviously,  mediation 
We  must  also  allow  our  discussion  of 
disputes  and  the  prohibition  of  the  threat  or  use  of 
force. 

best 
mechanism for the prevention and settlement of armed 
conflicts.  It  should  be  utilized  to  the  fullest  extent 
possible.  Sierra  Leone  firmly  believes  that  the  United 
Nations  should  make  better  use  of  Chapter  VI  of  the 
Charter,  namely,  measures  for  the  peaceful  settlement 
of disputes. 

the 
mediation of disputes through peaceful means to move 
towards  the  resolution  of  threats  to  the  international 
economic  and  financial  systems.  The  greatest  threat 
today  to  the  security  of  most  individuals  in  most 
societies  stems  from  the  non-resolution  of  issues 
relating to excessive speculation in the most important 
food crops of the world, the rising food and fuel prices 
and  the  fact  that  the  burden  of  sacrifice  for  our 
recovery is increasingly placed on the shoulders of the 
weak and the poor.  

In  most  places  in  the  world  we  are  seeing  the 
rallying  of  the  strong  and  powerful  to  protect  their 
indulgence and the rallying of young people, the weak 
and  the  dispossessed  to  secure  their  very  lives,  their 
dignity and humanity. The alternatives to the non-resolution 
of those disputes are dire. We must act now to save the 
world  from  the  anger  of  the  weak  and  the  excessive 
indulgence and repression perpetrated by the strong. 

I  would  like  to  emphasize  that  international 
cooperation in the peaceful settlement of disputes is the 
life blood of our Organization. In all our deliberations, 
from  global  warming  to  human  trafficking,  from  the 
threats  of  nuclear  weapons  to  the  scourge  of  abject 
poverty,  from  communicable  and  non-communicable 
diseases to ruthless natural disasters, and from the flow 
of illicit drugs to the seemingly unending upheavals in 
the financial markets, we should always remember that 
we need each other. The world is too connected for the 
consequences of failure to be localized.  

The  effects  of  poverty,  disease,  hunger  and 
desperation can no longer be boxed in and contained in 
a corner of a city, or a country, region or continent. We 
are on each other’s doorsteps, and we must continue to 
build  the  structures  for  the  peaceful  resolution  of  our 
conflicts. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
11-51191 

5 
A/66/PV.20 

President  of  the  Republic  of  Sierra  Leone  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr. Ernest Bai Koroma, President of the Republic 
of  Sierra  Leone,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 



to 
Address by Mr. Boris Tadić, President of the 
Republic of Serbia  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Serbia. 

Mr.  Boris  Tadić,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Serbia,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Boris  Tadić,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Serbia, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Tadić:  The  rapid  changes  in  our 

political and economic environment show, once again, 
the  necessity  of  this  annual  gathering  of  the  General 
Assembly  of  the  United  Nations.  We  have  a  difficult 
task  ahead  of  us.  I  wish  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  every  success.  He  can  rest  assured  that  he 
has  our  fullest  support.  I  also  wish  to  congratulate 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on his reappointment. 
His steady hand has helped to steer the United Nations 
through challenging times. To him, too, we offer all our 
support. 

It  has  been  a  year  of  momentous  change.  An 
economic  crisis  pervades  most  liberal  economies.  A 
wave of political change is sweeping through much of 
the  Middle  East.  Climatic  turbulence  leaves  loss  and 
tragedy in its wake. Famine stalks the Horn of Africa. 
New  choices  confront  political  leaders.  New  priorities 
are  presented  to  citizens.  The  worst  that  we  could  do 
now is to allow fear and indecision to govern us. 
that  call  for  a  deep 

commitment 
and 
multilateralism.  Every  crisis  that  we  address  reaches 
beyond our national frontiers. There is no way that we 
can resolve such matters without the framework of the 
international laws and rules to which we are all bound. 

The  financial  crisis  has  had  a  profound  and 
negative  effect  on  all  our  aspirations.  While  each 
These  are  also 
international 
cooperation 
times 
to 
country  must  adjust  its  expectations,  we  cannot  allow 
ourselves  to  be  guided  only  by  our  national  concerns. 
In fact, they are best supported by greater commitment 
to  a  deeper  solidarity  among  nations  and  far  more 
intense  cooperation.  The  great  economic  and  political 
unions  have  achieved  success  by  balancing  sacrifice 
with  gain  for  all.  The  same  challenge  now  confronts 
the European Union (EU). 

In  North  Africa  and  the  Middle  East,  we  have 
seen  a  wave  of  protest  that  has  convulsed  the  region. 
The  Republic  of  Serbia  and  the  Serbian  people  have 
had  a  long  relationship  with  all  the  peoples  of  that 
region. We  stand  by  them. We  know  what  is  involved 
in such changes. 

In  a  time  of  such  uncertainty,  crises  call  for 
United  Nations-sanctioned  involvement  to  save  lives 
and  to  keep  the  peace.  There  will  be  more  such 
missions. I am very pleased that the Republic of Serbia 
is now actively engaged in several such missions, and 
we  will  continue  our  commitment.  In  that  spirit,  the 
Republic  of  Serbia  is  a  signatory  to  the  evolving 
climate change commitments and conventions. We also 
enthusiastically  support  the  United  Nations  Global 
Counter-Terrorism Strategy. 

In times as complex as these, our objective must 
be  to  manage  real  crises  well  and  to  avoid  creating 
unnecessary  ones.  There  are  problems  that  can  be 
resolved through patient discussion and the building of 
trust.  Unilateral  action  in  such  circumstances  simply 
creates crisis for no good reason. 
That  is  why,  in  our  regional  issues  of  South 

Eastern Europe, we always promote the principles and 
the  presence  of  the  United  Nations.  As  a  founding 
member of the Non-Aligned Movement, we were able 
to  celebrate  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  its  founding  in 
Belgrade. 
of 
layers 
communication and trust at a time of globalization. 

Our  bid  to  join  the  European  Union  is  the 
platform on which we intend to build and contribute to 
our  shared  objectives.  Regional  cooperation  is  a 
cornerstone of our diplomacy, and we believe that it is 
only to the benefit of the entire region. That is reflected 
in our chairmanships of the Central European Initiative 
and the Adriatic-Ionian Initiative. Most important, it is 
also  reflected  in  Serbia’s  chairmanship  of  the  South-
East European Cooperation Process, our region’s most 
important initiative. Next year, my country will follow 
networks 
create 
Such 
6 

11-51191 
We  have  devoted  extraordinary 
to  capture  war  criminals.  Finally, 


that up by taking over responsibilities to lead the Black 
Sea Economic Cooperation Organization. 

Serbia  has  established  an  entirely  new  level  of 
confidence in relations  with Croatia. That has been of 
strategic  significance  in  securing  stability  in  Bosnia 
and  Herzegovina.  We  welcome  Croatia’s  imminent 
accession to the European Union. 

All of that has set the stage for Serbia to actively 
consider  seeking  the  chairmanship-in-office  of  the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
(OSCE) for the year 2014 ─ the centenary of the start 
of  the  First  World  War.  The  unifying  symbolism  of 
2014 would not only help catalyse efforts to resolve the 
unfinished  business  on  the  old  continent’s  shared 
agenda. It would also help to close the book on an era 
that  did  not  witness  the  enduring  stability  that  the 
nations of the OSCE space deserve. 
levels  of 

the 
resources 
Republic  of  Serbia  has  completed  its  obligations  to 
itself  and  to  the  international  community.  We  believe 
that, after the tragedies of the 1990s, that exercise is a 
very necessary catharsis for our nation. That action was 
also taken to demonstrate that Serbia wishes to move to 
a climate of total reconciliation throughout the region. 
We feel that we have done our part. 
Equally,  we  insist  that  everyone  else  does  their 

part as well. As in all previous instances involving war 
crimes and crimes against humanity in the Balkans, the 
Security  Council  has  given  a  mandate  to  investigate. 
That has greatly contributed to the process of regional 
reconciliation. This is the standard that must be applied 
in uncovering the full truth about allegations made in a 
deeply  disturbing  report  by  the  Council  of  Europe, 
entitled  “Inhuman  treatment  of  people  and  illicit 
trafficking  in  human  organs  in  Kosovo”.  Only  the 
Security  Council  can  make  sure  a  comprehensive 
investigation  takes  place.  Only  it  can  give  a  universal 
mandate and jurisdiction to ensure that all perpetrators 
of  war  crimes  in  the  Balkans  are  brought  to  justice, 
including  those  responsible  for  trafficking  in  human 
organs  in  Kosovo.  I  strongly  believe  that  ending  the 
culture  of  impunity  in  some  parts  of  the  Balkans  is  a 
common  goal  shared  by  every  member  of 
the 
international community. 

There is a certain irony to our proceedings today. 
This  year  we  have  welcomed  a  new  member  to  the 
United  Nations  family,  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan. 
A/66/PV.20
that 
surely 
is  universal. 
I 
fundamental  principle 
The  Republic  of  Serbia  welcomes  its  membership  in 
the  United  Nations.  We  welcome  them  because  they 
and  the  Republic  of  the  Sudan,  after  many  years  of 
conflict, arrived at a settlement that was achieved as a 
result  of  long,  difficult  negotiations  between  the  two 
parties.  

the  best 
The 
settlements occur when two parties agree, each making 
compromises, 
subscribe 
enthusiastically  to  the  comments  by  the  President  of 
the United States, made from this rostrum, on that very 
subject of negotiations. I agree that there is no shortcut 
to  ending  a  conflict  that  has  endured  for  a  long  time, 
and that peace depends on compromise among people, 
who  must  live  together  long  after  our  speeches  are 
over. 

However, this rule is not being applied to Serbia 
on the matter of its province of Kosovo and Metohija. 
On  17  February  2008,  Kosovo’s  ethnic  Albanian 
authorities  attempted  unilateral  secession,  a  violation 
of  the  basic  principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter, 
the Helsinki Final Act and Security Council resolution 
1244  (1999).  A  majority  of  Member  States  have 
refrained 
recognizing  Kosovo’s  unilateral 
declaration  of  independence.  They  have  continued  to 
abide  by  their  United  Nations  Charter  obligations  to 
respect  the  sovereignty  and  territorial  integrity  of  my 
country. On behalf of the Republic of Serbia, allow me 
to once  again sincerely thank those  countries  for their 
support and solidarity.  

Earlier  this  week,  we  heard  from  this  rostrum  a 
dangerous  appeal  for  countries  to  recognize  Kosovo. 
That  appeal  does  not  contribute  to  regional  stability. 
Rather, it lessens our chances of finding a solution we 
can all accept. The appeal we heard is not an appeal for 
peace but an appeal to endorse unilateralism and would 
create 
a  deeply  disturbing  precedent,  namely, 
encouragement for secessionists everywhere. 

In  July,  talks  between  Belgrade  and  Pristina, 
facilitated  by 
the  European  Union,  were  briefly 
suspended by the facilitator. At that time, there was an 
attempt 
the 
administrative  boundary  line  between  Serbia  proper 
and North Kosovo. Violence erupted. My Government 
did all it could to prevent violence from spreading, but 
was this necessary? The effect was to remind Serbs that 
they are negotiating with a gun to their heads and with 
the constant threat of international isolation. It reminds 
customs  officers  on 
impose 
from 
to 
11-51191 

7 

A/66/PV.20 

Serbs  that  the  excuse  of  violence  by  others  is  a  tool 
used  irresponsibly  to  threaten  Serbs.  It  reminds  Serbs 
of the anti-Serb pogroms in Kosovo in March of 2004. 
It  reminds  Serbs  of  the  failed  negotiations  and  the 
imposition of a unilaterally declared independence. 

I  want  to  remind  the Assembly  and  all  Members 
of  the  United  Nations  that  on  5 October  2000  the 
Republic  of  Serbia  voluntarily  and  peacefully 
overthrew  its  past  and  entered  a  new  phase  in  its 
history, in which it placed the fate of the Serbian nation 
under  the  protection  of  democracy,  civility,  peace  and 
dialogue. 

For  this  reason,  we  take  grave  offence  at  this 
climate  of  threat  emanating  from  countries  that  we 
would otherwise consider our most natural partners. In 
the  case  of  Serbia,  the  dialogue  between  two  parties 
was  initiated  in  March  2011,  following  a  delay  of 
several months to accommodate the electoral schedule 
in Pristina. 

We  have  made  very  significant  progress  during 
those negotiations. The Republic of Serbia, I assure the 
Assembly,  will  remain  a  very  active  party  to  this 
dialogue.  There  are  numerous  issues  that  must  be 
addressed in the months ahead. I appeal to all involved 
to  remain  engaged  in  this  process  in  a  constructive 
spirit. To that end, we expect the International Security 
Force in Kosovo and the European Union Rule of Law 
Mission in Kosovo to fully observe the United Nations 
doctrine  of  status  neutrality,  in  accordance  with  their 
mandates  under  Security  Council  resolution  1244 
(1999),  the  source  of  their  universal  legitimacy,  both 
on the ground and in the international arena. 

and 
reconciliation  are  not  achieved  through  concessions 
from  one  side  only.  Success  does  not  occur  when 
threats of violence are issued and coercive action takes 
place in the course of negotiations. Our response to this 
is  to  say  that,  just  as  we  will  never  accept  unilateral 
action,  we  will  also  not  abandon  the  negotiation 
process. 
This  is  why  we  have  stated  that  we  cannot  and 

will 
declared 
independence of Kosovo. It is also why we believe that 
we  must  settle  all  other  issues  with  Pristina,  because 
our region needs to have a stable environment. 

The  Republic  of  Serbia  has  always  sought 
tangible  assurances,  bound  by  international  agreement 
trust.  Negotiations 
unilaterally 
recognize 
Progress 
needs 
not 
the 
the 
the 
issue 
second 
involves 
to  change 
and  guarantees,  that  Serbian  communities  inhabiting 
Kosovo, Serbian interests and Serbia’s cultural heritage 
will be protected and allowed to flourish. 

Many  of  these  issues  have  been  discussed  over 
the  past  few  years  in  different  formats.  Occasionally, 
there  have  been  agreements  reached,  but  never 
implemented. It is time that matters were clarified. Any 
form of understanding on the matter of Kosovo has as a 
conditio  sine  qua  non  the  explicit  negotiated  and 
guaranteed  agreement  on 
following  matters 
essential to the protection of Serbs in Kosovo. 

The  first  concerns  the  status  of  the  Serbian 
population in North Kosovo. All acknowledge that this 
is  an  issue  that  must  be  addressed  on  the  basis  of  the 
the  current 
current  realities.  Attempts 
realities  would  not  be  conducive 
to  constructive 
solutions. 

proper 
The 
implementation  of  decentralization  in  Kosovo.  All 
those enclaves that are isolated from other Serbs must 
have  a  political,  judicial  and  economic  life  providing 
the  standards  that  allow  them  to  prosper  where  they 
are.  Serbia  remains  ready  to  continue  to  provide  the 
necessary support to these threatened populations. 

The third issue is that of the status of the Serbian 
Orthodox Church and of some of its key holy sites. The 
protection of those sites and the special status that must 
be given to them to preserve their unique identity and 
their livelihoods is a matter of fundamental concern. It 
comes  as  a  matter  of  surprise  to  me  that  an  offer  that 
would be acceptable to the Republic of Serbia and the 
Serbian Orthodox Church has not been volunteered by 
the other side. That issue is one of the most basic, and 
its  denial  should  be  considered  a  total  embarrassment 
to  the  authorities  in  Pristina  and  the  supervisory 
institutions and nations present in Kosovo. 

the  question  of  property  must  be 
resolved. Thousands of private claims remain pending, 
making hostages of those internally displaced in 1999. 
Commercial property claims are unresolved, as well. 

The failure to advance with goodwill on the very 
issue that is at the core of our concerns — the rights of 
the  Serbian  communities 
is  very 
disturbing. For us, those four issues are the litmus test. 

There is so much to say about the progress in my 
country that is positive that it always saddens me that I 
must  repeat  my  concerns  about  the  way  in  which  the 
in  Kosovo  — 
Finally, 
8 

11-51191 
in  Kosovo 
that  provides 
resolution  1244 
the  Serbian  communities  and 


issue of Kosovo is being handled. Let us all recall that 
Security  Council 
(1999)  placed 
Kosovo under the interim administration of the United 
Nations, pending a comprehensive settlement endorsed 
by  the  Security  Council.  There  is  a  limit  to  what  and 
for  how  long  Serbia  must  be  held  accountable  for 
developments  where  it  is  asked  to  assume  responsibility, 
but without the necessary authority.  

I look forward to the day when I can stand at this 
rostrum and report that we have resolved that issue and 
that we have found a mutually acceptable compromise, 
not  an 
imposed  outcome  where  one  side  gets 
everything  that  it  has  ever  wanted  and  the  other  side 
gets  nothing.  A  maximalist  zero-sum  approach  is  a 
solution  with  no  future.  We  are  ready.  We  are 
committed.  It  is  for  others  to  provide  grounds  for 
optimism. 

The  Republic  of  Serbia  has  two  immediate 
parallel  objectives:  to  secure  a  mutually  acceptable 
arrangement 
iron-clad 
guarantees  for 
to 
accelerate our progress to membership of the European 
Union.  Both  those  objectives  are  achievable.  It  would 
be foolish for anyone to think that one objective will be 
sacrificed  on  the  altar  of  the  other.  It  is  for  others  to 
decide  whether  they  think  that  the  achievement  of 
those two objectives is for  the good of the region and 
for  stability. We  are  convinced  that  it  is  in  everyone’s 
interest. 

I  believe  that  Serbia  has  met  the  criteria  to  be 
invited  to  be  a  candidate  for  membership  of  the 
European  Union.  I  also  believe  that  my  country  is 
ready  to  start  accession  negotiations.  I  believe  that  if 
that  were  to  occur,  Serbia  would,  for  the  first  time  in 
20  years,  begin  to  believe  that  the  EU  actually  sees 
Serbia  as  an  integral  part  of  a  complete  European 
Union. 
I  fervently  believe  that  my  country  has  set  an 

example 
to 
reconciliation, the establishment of the rule of law and 
the fight against organized crime, as well as in building 
the administrative capacity to handle European norms. 

Our  battle  against  organized  crime  is  a  global 
one. We know that international organized crime wants 
to  use  the  region  of  South-East  Europe  as  a  base  to 
penetrate  the  EU. The  Republic  of  Serbia  has  decided 
that  it  is  a  strategic  priority  and  a  national  security 
priority  that  Serbia  will  help  prevent  that.  Serbia  is 
the 
in 
region 
in  matters 
related 
A/66/PV.20
therefore  fighting  a  battle  to  protect  citizens  of  the 
European  Union.  It  is  actively  engaged  in  a  wider 
strategy  to  destroy  the  links  between  organized  crime 
and  international  terrorism.  We  cooperate  with  all 
nations  that  share  those  objectives.  We  appeal  to  the 
entire region to join us in that battle.  

I  am  therefore  convinced  that  the  presence  of 
Serbia  as  a  candidate,  actively  negotiating 
its 
accession,  is  an  important  asset  for  the  European 
Union.  
In  that  way,  Serbia  can  continue  to  be  an  even 

more  effective  member  of 
the  United  Nations, 
contributing fully and enthusiastically to the issues that 
touch common humanity. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Serbia for the statement he 
has just made. 

Mr.  Boris  Tadić,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Serbia,  was  escorted  from  the  General Assembly 
Hall. 


to 
Address by Mr. Alpha Condé, President of the 
Republic of Guinea 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Guinea. 

Mr.  Alpha  Condé,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Guinea, was  escorted into  the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Alpha Condé, President of the Republic of Guinea, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President Condé (spoke in French): It is a great 

honour for me to address the General Assembly as the 
first  democratically  elected  President  in  the  history  of 
my  country  since  its  independence,  following  a  free, 
transparent  and  credible  election  whose  result  was 
accepted  by  all.  My  country  paid  a  high  price  for  the 
dawn  of  democracy,  to  which  I  have  devoted  almost 
50 years of my life.  

Today, Guinea has turned an important page in its 
history. I would like to take this opportunity to express 
the  people  of  Guinea’s  gratitude  to  the  international 
11-51191 

9 
resulting 
A/66/PV.20 

community,  in  particular  the  International  Contact 
Group  on  Guinea,  for  their  untiring  efforts  in  the 
context  of  my  country’s  return 
to  constitutional 
normality. To those thanks, I add my brother and friend 
President Blaise Compaoré, President of Burkina Faso, 
who, as mediator in the Guinean crisis, spared no effort 
to restore constitutional order in Guinea. 

My presence in this Hall, which says much about 
the history of peoples and nations, represents Guinea’s 
return  to  the  international  stage.  This  is  the  place  for 
me  to  assure  the  international  community  of  my 
Government’s  commitment  to  respect  and  promote 
human  rights,  strengthen  unity  and  national  harmony, 
build a democratic society and ensure the progress and 
prosperity of the Guinean people. 
The  challenges  to  be  addressed  are  many  and 

complex.  The  socio-economic  situation 
that  we 
inherited was hardly bright: an utterly failed economy 
with 
inflation,  corruption  and  a 
completely dysfunctional State. 

The  outcome  of  the  presidential  election  in 
November  2010  therefore  expressed  the  legitimate 
aspiration of the people of Guinea to profound change 
that would foster the economic and social development 
of  the  country.  That  thirst  for  change  is  also  justified 
by  the  considerable  backwardness  evident  in  our 
country  despite  its  considerable  human  and  natural 
resources.  That  is  why,  the  day  after  the  presidential 
election,  we  committed  without  delay  to  a  series  of 
remedial  measures  in  order  to  provide  the  way  for 
better governance in the country. 
Strategies  and  dynamic  policies  were  drawn  up 

living 
implemented 
and 
conditions.  Among 
the 
Government  grants  agriculture  priority  in  order  to 
achieve  food  self-sufficiency.  Likewise,  the  mining 
sector  is  being  reorganized  through  the  adoption  of  a 
new  more  attractive  policy  that  takes  into  account  the 
interests of Guinea and its partners. 

As  part  of  that  momentum  for  change,  actions 
continue for the modernization and restructuring of the 
judicial  system  in  order  to  ensure  the  promotion  and 
protection  of  citizens’  rights  and  freedoms  and  to 
establish an attractive investment climate. 
On  the  financial  level,  reform  will  make  it 

possible 
the 
misappropriation  of  public  funds  and  avoid  having  to 
improve  people’s 
inflation, 
pledged, 
reforms 
prevent 
to 
control 
to 
the 
the 

and 
impunity 
corruption. 
print  money,  as  well  as  allow  us  to  combat  poor 
governance, 
Strict 
management measures, such as the State one-stop shop, 
strengthening  economic  oversight  and  the  overhaul  of 
the  administration,  as  well  as  undertaking  audits,  will 
stop financial losses and correct malfunctions. 

Apart  from  the  steps  to  improve  macroeconomic 
management and the structural reforms that I have just 
described,  the  Government  has  drawn  up  poverty 
reduction  strategies  to  meet  the  population’s  basic 
needs for income and access to basic social services, in 
particular  drinking  water  and  power 
supplies. 
Sustainable  development  being  a  major  goal  of  the 
Government,  it  is  clear  that  the  health-care,  education 
and  environment  sectors  are  among  our  Government’s 
priorities. 
However,  that  ambitious  programme  to  combat 

fully 
underdevelopment  and  poverty  cannot  be 
accomplished  without 
the  ongoing  and  effective 
support  of  the  international  community.  Moreover, 
negotiations  are  under  way  with  the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions  on  the  signing  of  an  agreement,  which  is 
almost  complete,  on 
the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor 
Countries Initiative to considerably reduce the Guinean 
debt.  That  will  enable  us  to  free  up  considerable 
financial resources and devote them to the sustainable 
development of our country. 

I wish to acknowledge our deep appreciation for, 
and  to  renew  our  faith  in,  the  World  Bank,  the 
International  Monetary  Fund 
the  African 
Development  Bank  for  the  efforts  already  agreed  on 
implementing  our  development  strategy.  I  would  also 
like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  the  Guinean 
people’s  gratitude 
regional  and 
multilateral  development  partners  for  their  valuable 
contribution to the national development effort. 

National  reconciliation  remains  the  cornerstone 
of our action. My approach in that process is to directly 
involve  the  population  at  the  grassroots.  In  that 
context,  I  set  up  a  provisional  commission  of 
reflection,  co-chaired  by  the  Grand  Imam  and  the 
Archbishop  of  Conakry.  That  commission  will  work 
with the wise men of the regions and prefectures on the 
ways and means to bolster national unity for a genuine 
reconciliation. 

As a component of the nation, the army is among 
our  priorities.  The  reforms  seek  to  make  it  a  truly 
to  all  bilateral, 
and 
10 

11-51191 
through 
enshrine 
in  particular 
to  prepare 
the 


republican  institution  —  guardian  of  peace,  security 
and development.  

Women and young people are key stakeholders in 
our  socio-economic  development.  Those  sectors  of 
society receive my Government’s constant attention. In 
that  regard,  the  empowerment  of  young  people  and 
women is another important factor. 
Following the presidential election, the people of 

legislative 
Guinea  are  now  working 
elections,  which  will 
return 
to 
constitutional  order.  In  that  context,  we  decided  to 
establish a secure computerized electoral roll that will 
make it possible to correct the anomalies noted during 
the presidential election and to ensure the participation 
of all Guineans of voting age in the election. 

The  Millennium  Summit,  held  in  New  York  in 
2000,  committed  itself  in  an  ambitious  declaration  to 
reduce extreme poverty by 2015 (see resolution 55/2). 
Despite  several  meetings,  strategies  drawn  up  at  the 
State  level  and  the  participation  of  the  international 
community, 
the  Monterrey 
Consensus,  the  Rome  summit  on  food  security,  the 
Johannesburg  summit  on  sustainable  development  and 
the  Beijing  summit  on  social  development,  many 
challenges are still to be addressed.  

We  therefore  need  to  periodically  assess  the 
direction of the supporting measures to ensure that the 
lofty goals that have been set are met. That approach is 
shared  by  external  partners,  political  parties,  civil 
society, unions and other actors.  

Despite  the  international  community’s  repeated 
calls  for  peace,  areas  of  conflict  and  tension  continue 
in several regions of the world, in particular in Africa, 
the  Middle  East  and  Asia.  The  occupation  of 
Palestinian  land  by  the  State  of  Israel  is  an  ongoing 
concern.  The  Palestinian  people  must  exercise  their 
legitimate and inalienable rights, including the right of 
return  to  their  lands  and  the  right  to  establish  an 
independent  State,  within 
the  borders  established 
before  June  1967,  in  peace  and  security  alongside  the 
State of Israel. That principled path alone could lead to 
a  comprehensive  and 
is  a 
guarantee  for  all  countries  in  the  region,  including 
Israel. 

The advent of a stable climate in Côte d’Ivoire, a 
brother country and neighbour, is reassuring after years 
of fratricidal clashes.  
lasting  peace,  which 
A/66/PV.20
In 
regional 
addition, 
tool  for 
the  entry  of 
My  delegation  welcomes 

the 
Republic of South Sudan into the body of free nations. 

The  tragic  humanitarian  situation  prevailing  in 
the Horn of Africa is a source of serious concern. The 
efforts  of  the  United  Nations,  the  African  Union  and 
humanitarian  organizations  and  institutions  currently 
under  way  to  provide  assistance  and  protection  to 
populations in distress must continue. The adoption of 
a  comprehensive  regional  plan  for  food  security  and 
self-sufficiency would provide a lasting solution to the 
current  crisis.  However,  Guinea  attaches  great 
importance to the positive  settlement of  the fratricidal 
conflict in Somalia.  

The  Republic  of  Guinea  has  always  participated 
in  the  collective  effort  to  promote  international  peace 
and security,  and it seeks to strengthen its role in that 
area.  Indeed,  my  delegation  believes  that  mediation  is 
the  most  effective 
the  prevention  and 
settlement  of  conflicts  and  for  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.  It  is  clear  that  States 
must  create  the  domestic  conditions  to  prevent  and 
settle disputes with the support of the United Nations.  

and 
international  organizations  must  adopt  mediation 
mechanisms,  while  working  closely  with  other  actors, 
such  as  civil  society  and  youth  and  women’s 
organizations.  In  the  particular  case  of  Africa,  my 
delegation would hope that priority be given to African 
mediation  mechanisms,  whose  action  has  shown  to  be 
effective on several occasions.  
Given  the  relevance  of  the  central  theme  of  the 

current session, the Guinean delegation hopes that our 
debates  will  further  strengthen  the  role  and  action  of 
our  universal  Organization. The  United  Nations  is  the 
crucible  of  our  aspirations  and  the  mirror  of  our 
collective vision and our joint fight for improved well-
being  and  peace. To  that  end,  it  must  pursue  in-depth 
reforms of its structures, operation and decision-taking 
mechanisms so as to be more effective and credible. 

I  wish  to  reaffirm  the  joint  African  position 
agreed  at  Ezulwini  for  fairer  representation  on  the 
Security  Council.  In  that  regard,  Guinea  will  continue 
to  support  the  action  of  the  Secretary-General,  whose 
re-election  fills  us  with  great  joy.  We  are  convinced 
that the new  mandate will enable him to continue and 
to  strengthen  his  efforts  towards  achieving  the  noble 
ideals enshrined in the Charter. 
subregional, 
11-51191 

11 

I  could  not 
A/66/PV.20 

finish  without  conveying  my 

congratulations 
to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nassir 
Abdulaziz Al-Nasser on his election as President of the 
General Assembly at the sixty-sixth ordinary session. I 
wish  him  every  success  in  carrying  out  his  difficult 
task. To his predecessor, Mr. Joseph Deiss, I would like 
to  express  our  gratitude  for  his  excellent  work  during 
his term. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Guinea  for  the  statement 
he has just made. 

Mr.  Alpha  Condé,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Guinea, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 


to 
Address by Mr. Isaias Afwerki, President of the State 
of Eritrea 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the State of Eritrea. 

Mr.  Isaias  Afwerki,  President  of  the  State  of 
Eritrea,  was  escorted  into  the  General Assembly 
Hall. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Isaias  Afwerki,  President  of  the  State  of  Eritrea, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.  
President  Afwerki:  Allow  me  begin  by 

congratulating  the  President  of  the  General Assembly 
and  his  country,  Qatar,  on  his  election  to  preside  over 
the  Assembly  at 
thanking 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his leadership and 
achievements. 

We  gather  at  the  sixty-sixth  session  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  an  important  juncture  in  the 
history  of  the  world.  We  meet  at  a  time  of  exciting 
possibilities  and  opportunities  for  the  betterment  of 
hundreds  of  millions  of  people.  Yet,  these  favourable 
prospects  must  be  weighed  against  the  profound 
dangers  and  sense  of  anxiety  that  currently  grip  our 
world.  The  persistent  economic  and  financial  crisis, 
massive  unemployment,  growing  inequality  between 
and  within  nations,  spiralling  levels  of  debt,  recurrent 
famines  and  starvation,  high  levels  of  mortality  from 
easily preventable diseases and an increasingly fragile 
this  session,  and  by 
the 
look 
towards 
emerging 
environment are wreaking havoc on the lives of people 
and the future of nations.  Despite the  end of the Cold 
War and the premature declaration of the emergence of 
a  new  world  order,  wars  and  military  interventions 
continue  —  almost  invariably  failing  to  resolve,  and 
further  complicating,  the  problems  they  set  out  to 
solve. 

It is true that none of these problems are new, yet 
there is no denying that the malaise seems much more 
intractable  today.  Three  years  ago,  the  world  was 
infused by a renewed spirit of hope and possibility with 
the  historic  election  of  President  Barack  Obama  and 
the  freshness  of  his  message  of  positive  change. 
However,  in  spite  his  best  efforts,  the  strength  of  his 
personality  and  his  many  talents,  that  hope  has  not 
been realized. The reality is that the problems we face 
are  systemic,  were  accumulated  over  many  years  and 
decades,  and  require  systemic  and  structural  change. 
Effecting this real, positive and durable transformation 
requires  not  only  the  effort  of  one  leader  and  one 
nation  and  its  allies,  but  the  concerted  effort  of  all 
nations.  We 
and 
re-emerging  Powers  —  China,  India,  Russia,  Brazil 
and others — to show more leadership and to shoulder 
bigger responsibilities. We also believe that all nations, 
whatever 
their  size,  can  and  should  play  an 
increasingly bigger and effective role in the endeavour 
to build a fair, just, equitable and sustainable world. 

This  year  has  seen  stirring  and  courageous 
initiatives taken by the people of many nations to effect 
fundamental  changes  that  would  lead  to  a  new  and 
dignified beginning for them and their countries. While 
the epicentre of the movement has been in North Africa 
and the Middle East, it is not limited to the Arab world 
or  to  developing  nations.  In  much  of  the  developed 
world,  there  is  now  the  same  sense  of  anger  and 
frustration, the same discontent with Governments that 
have become beholden to a small minority with special 
interests  and  the  same  yearning  for  decent  jobs, 
meaningful  political  participation  and  dignified  lives. 
These  realities  cannot,  and  should  not,  be  denied. 
Clearly,  this  is  not  the  time  for  complacency  or 
arrogance.  What 
frank 
acknowledgement  of  the  stark  global  reality  we  face, 
and  the  readiness  to  empower  our  peoples  and  our 
youth  and  to  work  cooperatively  for  a  secure  and 
brighter future for all. 
As  we  ponder  the  future  and  take  stock  of  the 

sweeping changes that are under way, we cannot fail to 
required 
is 
today 
is  a 
12 

11-51191 
risks  becoming 


underscore that the United Nations has already become 
hopelessly  outdated  and 
totally 
irrelevant.  We  all  profess  agreement  on  the  need  to 
transform the institutions and procedures of the United 
Nations,  but  we  remain  paralysed,  with  no  prospects 
for early progress.  

Eritrea  firmly  associates  itself  with  those  who 
stress the urgency of real reform and believes that what 
is required is not a mere tweaking of the system but a 
comprehensive  transformation  of  the  institution.  The 
critical  element  of  this  transformation  has  to  be  the 
strengthening  of  the  authority  and  role  of  the  General 
Assembly. As long as this paramount body is deprived 
of  real  decision-making  powers,  the  United  Nations 
will  remain  unrepresentative  of  the  nations  of  the 
world, even if the size and composition of the Security 
Council  changes  significantly.  Similarly,  there  can  be 
no  meaningful  revitalization  without  overhauling  the 
methods of work and procedures of the United Nations, 
respecting  the  rights  of  Member  States  and  ensuring 
transparency  and  accountability  in  all  bodies  of  the 
Organization. 

Half a century has elapsed since the heyday of the 
era  of  decolonization  that  led  to  the  emergence  of 
independent  African  nations.  In  spite  the  hope  and 
enthusiasm  of  the  early  years  and  the  achievements 
registered  since,  the  past  five  decades  have  been 
largely disappointing. The trying times and the internal 
and external challenges that caused them are certainly 
not  over,  as Africa  continues  to  struggle  in  a  difficult 
and  complex  international  environment.  Yet,  without 
exaggerating  the  possibilities  or  underestimating  the 
difficulties,  it  is  clear  that  a  number  of  African 
countries  are  entering  a  period  of  political,  economic 
and social renewal. They are convinced that Africa has 
the human and natural resources to succeed. It will not 
shun international partnerships but will give primacy to 
its  own  capabilities  and 
the 
continental and subregional levels. It is this perspective 
that  is  spurring African  countries  to  focus  on  the  key 
requirements 
continent’s 
infrastructure and promoting trade and economic links 
among  themselves.  Another  key  component  is  the 
revitalization  of  the  African  Union  and  subregional 
organizations. 

At  the  subregional  level,  Eritrea  is  committed  to 
economic  development  and  integration  in  the  wider 
Horn of Africa and Red Sea regions. We are convinced 
that no country can succeed in a turbulent environment. 
to  cooperation  at 
developing 
the 
of 
A/66/PV.20
for 
the 
including 
revitalization  of 
We  will  work 
the 
Intergovernmental  Authority  on  Development  and 
strive  to  make  it  effective  in  promoting  economic 
development and integration.  

We  welcome  an  independent  South  Sudan  and 
will work with both the Sudan and South Sudan, with 
whom we have long-standing ties, as they grapple with 
their  domestic  situations  and  endeavour  to  build 
cooperative relations.  

On Somalia, it has now become abundantly clear 
that there is a need for a new approach, as the current 
one  has  exhausted  itself  and  can  only  lead  to  further 
complications. Given that the central objective remains 
the  reconstitution  of  Somalia  and  the  rebuilding  of 
effective  institutions,  it  is  imperative  to  seriously 
engage and bring into a Somali-owned political process 
all  stakeholders, 
the  Governments  of 
Somaliland and Puntland. 
With  regard  to  the  Middle  East,  which  is  a  key 

item  on  the  agenda  of  the  current  session  of  the 
General  Assembly,  Eritrea  reaffirms  its  long-standing 
support  for  the  right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  self-
determination  and  an  independent,  sovereign  State.  It 
also  upholds  the  right  of  Israel  to  live  in  peace  and 
security  within  internationally  recognized  boundaries. 
At  the  same  time,  Eritrea  is  genuinely  concerned  that 
the  current  drive  for  United  Nations  membership  for 
Palestine  does  not  become  a  symbolic  battle  bereft  of 
real substance. It is only prudent and relevant to recall 
that  with  the  exception  of  a  few  realistic  voices,  the 
Oslo  Accords  were  greeted  with  much  acclaim  and 
that,  almost  two  decades  later,  they  have  not  led  to 
either  Palestinian  Statehood  or  peace  between  the 
Palestinian and Israeli peoples. 
Finally, I would be remiss in my duty if I did not 

remind  the  United  Nations  of  its  responsibility  to 
uphold  its  Charter,  international  law  and  numerous 
Security  Council  resolutions and  take  urgent  action  to 
end  Ethiopia’s  occupation  of  sovereign  Eritrean 
territory.  Coupled  with 
illegal 
sanctions  on  Eritrea,  that  would  not  only  serve  the 
cause of justice, but it would enable the people of the 
region  to  work  together  to  further  their  collective 
interests and consolidate Africa’s place in the world. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  State  of  Eritrea  for  the  statement  he 
has just made. 
lifting  of 
the 
the 
11-51191 

13 
A/66/PV.20 



Mr.  Isaias  Afwerki,  President  of  the  State  of 
Eritrea, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 


to 
Address by Mr. Marcus Stephen, President of the 
Republic of Nauru 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Nauru. 

Mr. Stephen, President of the Republic of Nauru, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Marcus  Stephen,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Nauru, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Stephen:  Allow  me  to  congratulate 

Mr. Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  on  his  assumption  of 
the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
sixth  session.  Allow  me  also 
to  commend  his 
predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss,  for  his 
capable leadership during the sixty-fifth session. 

I  would  like  to  begin  my  statement  by  thanking 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his historic visit to 
Kiribati  and  Solomon  Islands  earlier  this  month.  That 
was  the  first  time  that  a  sitting  Secretary-General 
visited a Pacific island country, and it demonstrates his 
commitment  to  addressing  the  needs  of  all  countries, 
no matter how small or remote. From my conversations 
with  the  Secretary-General,  I  know  he  left  the  region 
with  a  much  clearer  understanding  of  the  special 
challenges  we  face  as  small  island  nations.  I  look 
forward  to  working  with  the  Secretary-General  on 
finding ways for the United Nations system to be more 
responsive to the unique and particular needs of small 
island developing States (SIDS). 

General observed that  

While  on  his  tour  of  the  Pacific,  the  Secretary-
“Next month, the 7 billionth citizen of our world 
will be born. For that child, and for all of us, we 
must keep working to fight poverty, create decent 
jobs and provide a dignified life while preserving 
the  planet  that  sustains  us.  That  is  why  I  have 
said  that  the  sustainable  development  agenda  is 
the  agenda  for  the  twenty-first  century”.  (see 
SG/SM/13780) 
to  realize 
the  opportunity 

Sustainable  development  and  poverty  alleviation 
have  been  the  overriding  priorities  of  my  presidency 
since  I  assumed  office,  in  2007.  We  have  made  great 
strides  domestically,  but  we  will  still  fall  short  of  our 
ambitious  goals  until  the  international  community 
chooses to create an environment in which all countries 
have 
their  sustainable 
development aspirations. 

Nauru’s  culture and economy, like those of most 
Pacific  SIDS,  are  heavily  dependent  on  a  healthy  and 
productive  marine  environment.  The  ocean  is  the 
foundation  of  our  food  security  and  is  a  major  source 
of  Government  revenue.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  the 
Pacific SIDS  are calling  for the next Earth Summit in 
Rio to recognize the importance of the “blue economy” 
to small island and coastal States. I would like to thank 
Maldives,  Australia  and  New  Zealand,  as  well  as  the 
Secretary-General,  for  standing  with  the  Pacific  SIDS 
on this issue. 

We  have  identified  three  priority  areas  for  the 
Rio+20 outcome. First, we must enable SIDS to enjoy 
a  greater  share  of  the  economic  benefits  derived  from 
their marine and coastal resources. Secondly, we must 
reduce,  and  eventually  eliminate,  overfishing  and 
destructive  fishing  practices.  It  is  imperative  that  we 
ensure  that  our  fisheries  are  sustainable.  Finally,  we 
must build up the resilience of coral reef ecosystems to 
the impacts of climate change and ocean acidification. 
Adopting our proposals would begin to create the space 
needed for small islands to thrive.  

My Government is not sitting still while it waits 
for  the  international  community  to  act.  This  past 
summer,  Nauru’s  application 
the  International 
Seabed  Authority  was  granted,  which  will  enable  my 
country  to  engage  in  new  and  innovative  ways  to 
generate  economic  growth  and  move  towards  aid 
independence.  Nauru  is  not  endowed  with  terrestrial 
resources,  and  therefore  has  chosen  to  look  to  the 
oceans  to  expand  its  opportunities  for  economic  and 
social development.  

and 
The  proceeds 
development  of  copper,  nickel  and  manganese 
resources  will  go  to  two  fully  Nauruan-owned  funds, 
one that supports education and training, and the other, 
health  and  environment.  This  Nauru-controlled, 
domestically driven initiative will adhere to the highest 
international environmental standards. 
exploration 
from  our 
to 
14 

11-51191 



The sustainable development challenges of SIDS 
are widely recognized by the international community; 
however,  our  success  in  addressing  them  has  been 
mixed  at  best.  At  last  year’s  High-level  Plenary 
Meeting on the Millennium Development Goals, it was 
determined  that  progress  for  most  Pacific  islands  had 
been  lagging  in  many  areas.  Targeted  assistance  to 
address  the  unique  and  particular  vulnerabilities  of 
SIDS is urgently needed. It is Nauru’s position that the 
most  effective  way  to  accomplish  this  objective  is  for 
the  United  Nations  to  recognize  a  formal  SIDS 
category, with dedicated support mechanisms. 

Unfortunately,  all  of  our  best  efforts  will  have 
been for naught if we do not take immediate action to 
address  climate  change.  As  Pacific  island  leaders 
recognized  earlier 
this  month,  climate  change 
represents the single greatest threat to the livelihoods, 
security and well-being of the peoples of the Pacific. 

The seventeenth Conference of the Parties to the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change,  to  be  held  in  Durban,  must  make  significant 
progress  towards  a  comprehensive,  legally  binding 
agreement  that  can  ensure  the  survival  of  all  nations. 
The parties must agree to a second commitment period 
under  the  Kyoto  Protocol,  so  that  new  commitments 
are 
in  place  by  2013.  The  parties  must  also 
operationalize  the  agreements  reached  at  Cancún, 
including more ambitious mitigation commitments and 
actions,  the  operationalization  of  the  new  Green 
Climate Fund, and a mandate to conclude a new legally 
binding  agreement  based  on  the  work  of  the  Ad  Hoc 
Working Group on Long-term Cooperative Action. 

Climate change threatens to undo all of our recent 
development  gains  if  the  major  biggest  polluters 
continue  down  the  path  of  business  as  usual.  Some 
Pacific 
is  an 
unfortunate reality that there is so much carbon in the 
atmosphere  that  many  of  the  negative  impacts  of 
climate  change  may  now  be  unavoidable.  For  that 
reason,  Nauru  applauds  the  recent  open  debate  in  the 
Security  Council  on  climate  change.  While  the  final 
presidential  statement  was  not  as  strong  as  we  had 
hoped, it clearly recognizes the threat posed by climate 
change to international peace and security and lays the 
foundation for future work by the Council on the issue.  
Few  countries  doubt  the  connection  between 

climate  change  and  security,  but 
is  still 
islands  may  disappear  entirely.  It 
there 
A/66/PV.20
disagreement  as  to  the  way  forward.  Allow  me  to 
reiterate the proposals of the Pacific SIDS. 

First,  the  Secretary-General  should  appoint  a 
special  representative  on  climate  and  security  to 
analyse  the  projected  security  impacts  of  climate 
change,  so  that  the  Council  and  Member  States  can 
better  understand  what 
lies  ahead.  Secondly,  the 
Secretary-General  should  assess  the  capacity  of  the 
United Nations system to respond to the likely security 
impacts of climate change, so that vulnerable countries 
can  be  assured  that  it  is  up  to  the  task.  These  two 
proposals represent the absolute minimum necessary to 
prepare  for  the  greatest  threat  to  international  peace 
and security of our generation. 

The Security Council must grapple with the most 
urgent  security  threats  of  our  time  if  it  is  to  remain 
relevant.  Likewise, 
it  should  evolve  along  with 
emerging  geopolitical  realities  and  become  more 
representative  and  inclusive.  It  is  for  this  reason  that 
Nauru supports an early reform of the Security Council 
through  an  enlargement  of  both  the  permanent  and 
non-permanent  categories  and  an  improvement  in  its 
working methods. 

We  believe  very  strongly  that  new  members 
should  be  geographically  diverse.  However,  it  is 
equally  important  that  aspiring  members  demonstrate 
their  commitment 
the  most  urgent 
security  issues  facing  all  Member  States.  As  an 
example,  I  would  like  to  highlight  Germany’s  bold 
leadership of the Security Council this past July, when 
it  took  the  politically  courageous  decision  to  host  the 
open  debate  on  climate  change.  As  I  said  earlier, 
climate  change  is  the  overriding  security  threat  facing 
the  Pacific  region,  and  Germany’s  efforts  will  not  be 
forgotten. 
In  a  similar  vein,  the  United  Nations  should 

ensure 
the 
opportunity  to  participate  in  its  activities.  We  cannot 
continue  to  ignore  the  more  than  23  million  people 
who live in Taiwan, who have repeatedly demonstrated 
that they are a nation committed to peace and regional 
cooperation.  We  therefore  support  enabling  Taiwan’s 
meaningful engagement in connection with the United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
and the International Civil Aviation Organization. 

The  recent  renaming  of  the  Group  of  Asian 
States,  to  the  Group  of  Asia  and  the  Pacific  Small 
Island  Developing  States,  is  a  welcome  change  that 
that  all  citizens  of 
to  addressing 
the  world  have 
11-51191 

15 

taken 
A/66/PV.20 

exemplifies  the  inclusivity  that  should  characterize  all 
aspects  of  the  United  Nations  system.  I  commend  the 
Group  for  having 
this  symbolic  step  and 
recognizing  the  20  per  cent  of  the  membership  that 
resides in the Pacific Ocean region. 

However,  we  must  move  beyond  symbolism  to 
concrete  action  that  addresses  the  actual  concerns  of 
small  and  vulnerable  countries.  Once  again,  I  implore 
the Assembly  to  support  the  appointment  of  a  special 
representative on climate and security for the benefit of 
the  many  nations  around  the  world  for  whom  climate 
change is a grave and, in some cases, existential threat. 

My Government is preparing for a new challenge. 
In  2012,  Nauru  will  assume  the  chairmanship  of  the 
Alliance of Small Island States (AOSIS). I would like 
to  recognize  the  Government  of  Grenada  for  its 
inspirational 
leadership  and  able  execution  of  a 
supremely difficult task. 
I  am  humbled  by  the  trust  placed  in  us  by  our 

fellow  AOSIS  colleagues  and  have  no 
illusions 
regarding the enormity of the challenges that lie ahead. 
We are entering a period in history when countries are 
turning  inward,  despite  decades  of  evidence  that 
cooperation  is  the  surest  path  to  prosperity.  We  must 
resist  the  urge  to  engage  in  zero-sum  politics  and 
recommit to the principles of multilateralism enshrined 
in the United Nations Charter. Durban will be the next 
opportunity to embark on a more sustainable path and 
create  a  world  we  are  proud  to  leave  for  future 
generations.  We  should  not  let  this  opportunity  slip 
away. 

For  years,  leaders  in  the  Pacific  have  implored 
the peoples of the world to come to our islands and see 
the  impacts  of  climate  change  for  themselves.  The 
Secretary-General answered our call, and now he truly 
understands the urgency of our situation. 

Earlier this week, he spoke of a little girl named 
Tamauri  he  met  while  in  Kiribati  (see  A/66/PV.11). 
Frightened  by  the  rising  tides  around  her  islands,  she 
asked  what  the  United  Nations  could  do  to  help  her 
people.  She  is  not  alone.  The  children  in  all  of  our 
countries  —  Cook  Islands,  Fiji,  Micronesia,  Palau, 
Papua New Guinea, the Marshall Islands, Niue, Samoa, 
Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu and my own, 
Nauru  —  wonder  whether  they  will  have  a  future.  I 
look forward to working with the Secretary-General to 
meet the challenge of the climate crisis so that we can 
tell  them  that  they  no  longer  need  to  be  afraid.  May 
God  bless  the  Republic  of  Nauru  and  may  God  bless 
the United Nations. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Nauru for the statement he 
has just made. 

Mr. Marcus Stephen, President of the Republic of 
Nauru,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.  


to 
Address by Mr. Mahamadou Issoufou, President of 
the Republic of the Niger 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of the Niger. 

Mr.  Mahamadou  Issoufou,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  the  Niger,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Mahamadou Issoufou, President of the Republic of 
the Niger, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 


President Issoufou (spoke in French): 
“They  shall  beat  their  swords  into  ploughshares, 
and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation shall 
not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they 
learn war any more.” (The Holy Bible, Isaiah 2:4) 
Far from achieving Isaiah’s prophecy, humankind 

continues to face serious challenges  at this time  when 
His Excellency Mr. Joseph Deiss has passed the baton 
to the new President after presiding brilliantly over the 
General  Assembly  at  its  previous  session.  I  have  no 
doubt  that  on  his  election  to  the  presidency  of  the 
Assembly at its sixty-sixth session, the President brings 
to  it  great  strengths,  bolstered  in  particular  with  the 
understanding and mastery of international realities he 
has  acquired  as,  among  other  positions,  Permanent 
Representative  of  his  country,  and  having  sat  on  the 
Security  Council  during  Qatar’s  non-permanent 
membership. 

The  President  did  well  in  choosing  as  the  theme 
for  his  term  “The  role  of  mediation  in  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes”.  Under 
the  guidance  of 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, sustained efforts have 
been made in this area. Here I would like to pay tribute 
16 

11-51191 


to  him  for  the  work  he  has  done  during  his  first  term 
and  to  congratulate  him  on  his  re-election  on  21  June 
as  head  of  the  Organization.  I  would  also  like  once 
again  to  thank  him  for  the  Organization’s  unfailing 
support  during  the  multiple  crises  that  my  country, 
Niger,  has  undergone  in  recent  years.  More  generally, 
we  have  seen  his  commitment  to  the  concerns  of  the 
African  continent  and  hope  that  his  new  term  will 
enable him to continue on the same path. 

The  choice  of  theme  for  the  current  session  is 
proof  that  the  prophecy  of  Isaiah,  whose  verse  is 
rightly  engraved  in  front  of  the  United  Nations 
building, has been slow to become reality. Indeed, the 
international  situation  has  been  and  continues  to  be 
characterized  by  serious  tensions.  We  might  have 
thought  that  the  end  of  the  cold  war  would  open  the 
way  to  an  age  of  full  and  lasting  peace  around  the 
world. Unfortunately, owing to a lack of the ability or 
perhaps even the will to attack the evil at the root, our 
hope  for  a  world  free  of  conflict,  like  the  line  of  the 
horizon, recedes as we approach it. 

The root of the evil is bad political and economic 
governance. The promises of freedom, equality, justice, 
the  rule  of  law  and  solidarity  that  have  been  made  to 
the  people  of  the  world  at  the  global  and  the  national 
levels  have  not  always  been  kept.  The  absence  of 
global  economic 
the  domination  of 
financial  capital  over  even  the  real  economy,  the 
growth  of  inequalities  between  and  within  nations  are 
just  so  many  factors  in  the  chaos,  crises  and  conflicts 
that  are  disturbing  peace  around  the  world.  Besides, 
can  a  world  where  several  billion  people  live  in 
poverty be peaceful? What do the billion human beings 
who are hungry have to lose? Can the Somalis, who are 
suffering  the  tortures  of  hunger  right  now,  or  the 
inhabitants  of  the  Sahel,  who  deal  with  hunger  over 
and over again, believe that they live in a just, humane 
world?  Can  extreme  poverty  coexist  peacefully  with 
extreme wealth? 
Today, 1,210 people, that is, 17 per 100 million of 

the  world’s 
of 
$4,500 billion  —  8  per  cent  of  the  world’s  aggregate 
gross domestic product (GDP) — while the income of 
20 per cent of the poorest represents only 1.5 per cent, 
and that of the 2.5 billion people who live on less than 
$2  a  day  —  40  per  cent  of  the  total  population  — 
represents  only  5  per  cent.  Thus  a  thousand  or  so 
people have an income one and a half times larger than 
all the 2.5 billion people living on less than $2 a day. 
population, 
regulation, 
revenues 
control 
A/66/PV.20
Besides  being  morally  shocking,  this  situation  is 
economically  inefficient,  since  it  strangles  economic 
growth.  Furthermore,  the  implementation  of  structural 
adjustment  programmes  that  began  in  the  1980s  is  a 
perfect illustration of bad global economic governance. 
The  liberalization  and  privatization  touted  by  such 
programmes  were  conducted  anarchically;  even  today, 
such  liberalization  has  been  applied  only  in  sectors 
where  weak  countries  such  as  ours  have  no  relative 
advantages.  As  we  know,  such  liberalization  did  not 
affect  the  markets  for  labour  or  agricultural  products. 
My  country,  Niger,  has  suffered  greatly  from  such 
policies. 
This  is,  finally,  where  we  should  recall  that  the 

promise  made  by 
the  world’s  wealthy  nations, 
beginning  in  the  1970s,  to  increase  their  public 
development  aid  to  0.7  per  cent  of  GDP  has  still  not 
been  kept.  If  you  add  to  that  the  recent  crises  in 
banking and sovereign debt, along with the shortfall in 
direct investment in Africa, where there is nonetheless 
great  scope  for  economic  growth,  you  can  understand 
the inadequacy of global economic growth, particularly 
the collapse of economic growth in wealthy countries. 
The economic elasticity and resilience we need to cope 
with the crises will grow only with the development of 
the  countries  of  the  South.  The  world’s  equilibrium 
depends on the balanced development of all its regions; 
in particular, the creation of a powerful middle class in 
every  region  of  the  world  will  strengthen  economic 
growth, stability and peace. 

For more than 60 years, the Middle East has been 
one of the most turbulent regions on the planet. We had 
great  hopes  for  the  resumption  on  9  May  2010  of 
indirect  negotiations  between 
and 
Palestinians, mediated by the United Nations. The start 
of  direct  bilateral  negotiations  represented  real  hope 
for reaching a global peace agreement based on a two-
State  solution,  with  an 
independent  and  viable 
Palestinian  State  living  side  by  side  in  peace  and 
security with Israel and its neighbours. 

It  is  undoubtedly  the  failure  of  those  talks  that 
has  led  the  Palestinian  Authority  to  take  steps  to 
achieve recognition of the State of Palestine based, on 
the one hand, on the 1967 borders, and on the other, on 
its admission as a full Member of the United Nations. 
This is the moment for our Organization to take a bold 
decision  designed 
the  Israel-Palestinian 
problem  definitively,  a  settlement  without  which  the 
Arab  Spring  will  be  unable  to  guarantee  peace  and 
to  settle 
Israelis 
the 
11-51191 

17 
terrorism  and  will  erase 
the  United  States,  commemorated 
A/66/PV.20 

security in the entire Middle East. Indeed, the failure of 
democracies  to  resolve  this  long-standing  crisis  will 
inevitably  reinforce 
the 
democratic achievements of the Spring.  

My country, Niger, one of the 122 Member States 
that  have  already  recognized  the  State  of  Palestine,  is 
supporting  its  request  for  full  membership  in  the 
United Nations, as presented this morning at this sixty-
sixth session of the General Assembly. 
The  tenth  anniversary  of  the  terrorist  attacks 

last 
against 
11 September, and the recent suicide attack against the 
United Nations headquarters in Abuja in Nigeria prove 
that no region of the world is safe from terrorism. We 
firmly  condemn  all  acts  of  terrorism,  wherever,  for 
whatever reason and by whomever they are committed, 
as they present one of the most serious threats to peace 
and security.  
Terrorism,  as  the  Assembly  knows,  attacks  the 

values that constitute the essence of the United Nations 
Charter:  respect  for  human  rights,  the  rule  of  law,  the 
rules  governing  war  and  the  protection  of  civilians, 
tolerance  among  peoples  and  nations  and  the  peaceful 
resolution of disputes.  

In  Niger,  we  face  this  threat  on  our  northern 
border  with Algeria,  to  the  west  with  Mali  and  to  the 
south with Nigeria. I would like to pay a well-deserved 
tribute  to  the  Nigerian  security  and  defence  forces, 
some  of  whom  have  given 
their 
commitment to protecting our country from terrorism.  

Along with that threat, of course, we also have to 
face  criminal  organizations  that  traffic  in  weapons, 
drugs and human beings. All of these threats have been 
exacerbated  by  the  Libyan  crisis.  Indeed,  arms  depots 
have  been  pillaged  in  Libya.  Those  weapons  are  now 
distributed  throughout  the  Sahara  and  Sahel  area  and 
risk  ending  up  in  the  hands  of  terrorists.  Given  the 
regional  nature  of  the  threats,  Niger  is  determined  to 
work  jointly  with  other  countries,  especially  in  our 
subregion,  to  deal  with  the  situation.  The  risk  to  the 
stability of the entire subregion, where some countries 
experience 
should  not  be 
underestimated.  

We hope that there will be a rapid solution to the 
crisis, which would not just have a security impact on 
Niger,  but  also  an  economic  and  social  impact,  given 
the  work  stoppage  on  the  road  construction  that  was 
rebellions, 
their 
lives 
in 

being financed by Libya, the return from Libya of over 
210,000  migrant  Niger  nationals  and  the  arrival  of 
increasing numbers of Libyan refugees fleeing the war. 
Niger is a democratic country, governed by the rule of 
law,  and  we  will  treat  these  refugees  in  compliance 
with  our  laws  and  international  law.  Until  now,  our 
country, with very limited means, has been bearing this 
terrible  burden  alone.  Our  country  therefore  requires 
support  and  help  from  the  international  community  in 
terms of both the security and the economic issues, as 
we are on the frontlines of the war against terrorism.  

Niger  would  also  like  to  see  a  rapid  return  to 
peace  and  stability  in  this  brotherly  country  and 
reconciliation among Libyans. We are concerned by the 
situation,  because  the  democratic  institutions  that  our 
countries  are  trying  to  build  are  still  fragile.  We  are 
concerned  because  the  reality  of  widespread  poverty 
provides a breeding ground for terrorism.  

My  country,  Niger,  believes  that,  apart  from 
immediate  security  solutions,  the  strengthening  of 
democratic 
institutions  and  economic  and  social 
development  are  the  only  ways  to  confine  terrorism 
and guarantee peace. Democratic values are universal. 
It has been decisively proven: there is no such thing as 
climate  determinism,  which  would  condemn  hot 
countries  to  despotism  and  temperate  countries  to 
democracy. In understanding this, the world has made a 
quantum  leap,  convincing  even  those  who  would 
believe  that  the  fight  for  democracy  is  simply  a  new 
version  of  the  mission  to  civilize,  which  was  the 
justification  for  the  colonialism  of  the  past  century 
brought  about  by  the  alliance  of  the  sword  and  the 
censer.  

As  a  Muslim,  I  would  like  to  say  that  terrorism 
has  nothing  to  do  with  Islam.  Islam  has  always 
emphasized  fraternity  and 
justice.  It  has  always 
emphasized the intrinsic unity of all human beings and 
their  equality,  whatever  their  origins.  Islam  therefore 
proclaims  that  all  men  are  equal  like  the  teeth  of  a 
comb  in  the  hands  of  a  weaver.  Islam  is  a  religion  of 
tolerance.  


“I do not serve that which you serve, nor do 
you serve Him Whom I serve: nor am I going to 
serve that which you serve, nor are you going to 
serve  Him  Whom  I  serve:  you  shall  have  your 
religion and I shall have my religion.” (The Holy 
Koran, CIX: 2-6) 
recurrent 
18 

11-51191 



Those  are  the  divine  words,  full  of  tolerance, 
from a sura of the Koran. Thus, terrorism has nothing 
to do with Islam, with real Islam, which is a religion of 
the  happy  medium,  and  the  fight  against  terrorism 
should  not  be  considered  a  religious  conflict,  a  clash 
between  two  civilizations,  a  struggle  between  Judeo-
Christian  civilization  and  Muslim  civilization,  or  a 
fight  to  the  death  between  the  Christian West  and  the 
Muslim  East.  The  world  must  not  return  to  the 
religious wars of the Middle Ages. Quite the opposite, 
it  should  be  able  to  integrate  the  values  of  two 
civilizations that are, at their root, both from the same 
area, the Middle East. 

Climate  change  is  another  challenge  that  the 
world is facing. Greenhouse gases are one of its causes. 
The least  developed poor countries, of  which Niger is 
unfortunately  a  member,  only  produce  1  per  cent  of 
those  gases.  We  in  Niger  suffer  from  the  effects  of 
climate change on a recurring basis. Indeed, our people 
live  off  of  subsistence  agriculture  and  livestock-
raising.  Those  two  sectors,  on  which  the  poorest,  in 
particular  women  and  children, 
rely,  are  very 
vulnerable to climate change. The droughts and floods 
in Niger over the past 10 years show, needless to say, a 
trend  towards  a  growing  number  of  extreme  weather 
events.  

In  view  of  this,  we  decided  to  implement  the 
Three  Ns  initiative,  that  is,  “the  people  of  Niger 
Nourishing  the  people  of  Niger”.  As  we  believe  that 
drought  does  not  need  to  necessarily  bring  about 
famine, we have decided to increase the yields of rain-
fed  agriculture,  to  promote  irrigation,  to  modernize 
livestock-raising  methods  and  to  implement  a  robust 
policy  of  environmental  protection.  As  we  know  that 
the harvest this season will be poor, we have decided to 
implement  an  emergency  irrigation  programme,  to 
rebuild  our  food  stocks  and  to  alert  the  international 
community to the situation. From this rostrum I renew 
my country’s appeal to the international community for 
aid  for  Niger,  which,  in  addition  to  threats  from  the 
Libyan  crisis,  from 
terrorists  and  from  criminal 
organizations of every kind, is also facing severe food 
insecurity.  
The  terrible  recurrent  drought  that  Niger  lives 

with  spurred  our  decision  to  restructure  our  economy. 
Our  country  has  significant  mineral  resources  — 
uranium,  gold,  coal,  cement,  which  are  already  being 
mined, as well as oil, the first barrel of which will be 
produced  before  the  end  of  2011.  While  the  curse  of 
A/66/PV.20
especially 
foreign 
investment, 
the  World  Trade  Organization, 
mineral  resources  has  had  unfortunate  results  in  other 
countries,  we  will  exploit  our  resources  to  the  sole 
benefit of the people of Niger. In accordance with the 
Extraction Industries Transparency Initiative, we mean 
to  invest  the  profits  to  the  benefit  of  the  people  of 
Niger,  especially  in  agriculture,  animal  husbandry, 
energy  and  transportation  infrastructure,  education, 
health  and  access  to  water. The  resulting  boost  to  our 
economy  will  allow  us  to  create  tens  of  thousands  of 
jobs,  especially  for  young  people.  Niger  encourages 
private 
direct 
investment.  Besides  the  legal  protection  we  offer  by 
promoting the rule of law, we have also just adopted a 
law on public-private partnerships in order to expedite 
funding. 
We  have  the  duty  to  create  a  fairer  and  more 

humane world. To achieve that noble aim we need new 
global governance. That will require a profound reform 
of  international  organizations,  in  particular  the  United 
Nations, 
the 
International Monetary Fund and the World Bank. The 
democratization  of  those  institutions  is  absolutely 
necessary; it is a sine qua non condition for peace and 
stability in the world. For decisions to be accepted and 
implemented  by  everyone,  they  must  be  taken  in  a 
collaborative, participatory way. 
to  focus  now  on  our  great 

is  at  once  a 
Organization.  The  United  Nations 
permanent  space  for  political  dialogue  among  the 
countries we  represent and a forum for the expression 
of the solidarity necessary among our peoples. It is also 
where we turn for the realization of our hopes. For all 
those  reasons,  reform  of  the  United  Nations  must 
proceed faster. Africa takes a common position on this 
issue,  which  my  country  shares.  We  deeply  believe 
that,  given  its  worldwide  mandate  to  deal  with  major 
issues  like  peace,  security,  development  and  human 
rights,  the  United  Nations  must  be  fair,  representative 
and  democratic.  We  believe 
an  ongoing 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly,  the  common 
forum that we all hold dear. We have no doubt that the 
President  of  the  Assembly  will  move  forward  the 
process of democratizing the United Nations. The same 
is true of reform of the Security Council, which we all 
await and which Africa has always called for, through 
its  representatives,  especially  the  Committee  of  Ten 
African  Ministers  of  Finance  and  Central  Bank 
Governors. 
I  would 
like 
in 
11-51191 

19 

A/66/PV.20 


Before concluding, I want to return to the theme 
of  mediation.  Our  countries  and  the  United  Nations 
itself  could  increase  their  effectiveness  in  managing 
issues  of  peace,  security  and  development  if  they 
sought  resolution  through  mediation.  The  importance 
of  the  role  of  mediation  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes is incontestable. In fact, it is an essential tool 
in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  which  the 
Charter itself recommends to States in Article 33. 

In  Niger  we  have  experienced  the  benefits  of 
mediation,  through  the  United  Nations,  the  African 
Union  and  the  Economic  Community  of West African 
States, in our recent political and institutional crisis. It 
is true that mediation can be tedious, but in the end it 
bears  fruit.  We  endorse  every  effort  that  aims  to 
promote  peace  through  mediation,  both  in  active  and 
potential  conflicts. We  also  encourage  the  Department 
of Political Affairs to keep the principle in mind in its 
work. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Niger for the statement he 
has just made. 

Mr.  Mahamadou  Issoufou,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Niger, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall. 

Address by Mr. Michel Joseph Martelly, President of 
the Republic of Haiti 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the 
President of the Republic of Haiti. 

Mr.  Michel  Joseph  Martelly,  President  of  the 
Republic of Haiti, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Michel Joseph Martelly, President of the Republic 
of Haiti, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Martelly  (spoke  in  French):  First  of 

all,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  Mr.  Nassir Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session.  I  also  want  to  use 
this occasion to commend the leadership of Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  and  to  laud  the  dynamism  and 
wisdom he brings to the management of world affairs.  
to 
From this rostrum, I extend a brotherly welcome 

to  our  sister  nation,  South  Sudan,  which 
just 
proclaimed  its  independence  on  9  July.  We  share  in 
their pride, and we welcome them with great respect as 
the  193rd  Member  State  of  the  great  family  of  the 
United  Nations.  On  behalf  of  the  Republic  of  Haiti,  I 
send  warm  congratulations  and  our  hope  that  the 
country  may  enjoy  peace,  happiness  and  prosperity.  I 
honour  the  memory  of  those  who  died  in  the  struggle 
before  seeing  the  dawn  of  a  new  day  shining  in  that 
part of the African continent. 

Speaking here today on behalf of Haiti, I join my 
voice with those of all the Member States that, like us, 
have  known  the  heavy  burden  of  post-disaster  and 
post-conflict circumstances, in saying that even among 
the  weakest  and  most  vulnerable  hope  lives  on.  They 
carry  the  hope  of  rebirth,  because  they  know  that  the 
pre-crisis reality is no longer a possibility. They know 
that change — change in their mentality and change in 
their political, economic  and social affairs — must be 
their  creed.  They  cannot  afford  not  to  change.  In  the 
case  of  Haiti,  it  is  precisely  because  an  entire  people 
were  firmly  convinced  of  the  need  for  change  that  I 
was elected with a very clear mandate, namely, that of 
bringing about that change.  

I  am  convinced  that  that  leap  in  awareness  that 
resulted  from  suffering  is  what  will  lead  to  a  new 
global order. That was the case at the beginning of the 
nineteenth  century,  when  Saint-Domingue  broke  its 
chains and brought about the birth of Haiti. It was the 
case  in  1945,  when  countries  of  good  will,  including 
Haiti,  came  together  to  bring  about  this  body  which 
brings  us  together  this  week  around  noble  ideals.  It 
also  seems  to  be  the  case  in  the  light  of  the  political 
changes affecting North Africa. 

In  a  country  of  the  South  where  the  human 
development index is still of concern, a major disaster 
unfortunately 
of 
responsibility comes brutally to the fore again, whether 
the  responsibility  be  local  in  terms  of  governance,  or 
whether  the  responsibility  lies  with  the  global  order. 
Today’s world and the United Nations in particular will 
be  more  and  more  called  upon,  because  those  post-
disaster  situations  include  both  situations  resulting 
from natural disasters and those of a passing nature or 
those that are simply caused by human folly.  

When  on  top  of  that,  in  some  of  those  cases,  all 
of  these  factors  come  together,  the  response  must  be 
question 
arises, 
the 
great 
20 

11-51191 


more  carefully  designed,  more  responsible,  more 
coordinated, bolder and more determined.  

I  strongly  believe  that,  first  of  all,  it  is  for  the 
affected  countries  to  seek  and  find  solutions,  because 
any solution that is imposed from the outside, however 
generous  it  might  be,  will,  in  the  medium  term,  only 
produce  adverse  effects.  It  is  up  to  the  people  of  the 
South to determine how they use their wealth, their raw 
materials and their future. In the case of Haiti, I have to 
say  that  the  international  community,  through  the 
United  Nations,  showed  by  supporting,  six  months 
after the earthquake, presidential elections in a difficult 
context, that it understood the urgency. I would like to 
thank it for that. 

But  I  also  strongly  believe  that  it  would  be 
irresponsible for a country that has been hit by disaster 
to deny itself the assistance, expertise and cooperation 
of sisterly nations, whether they be from the emerging 
South or from the North, which is supposedly well-off. 

It  is  that  balance,  as  I  was  saying,  between 
mature  governance  and  well-conceived  international 
assistance  that  should  be  sought  after  and  codified, 
genuinely and without any embellishment. I would cite 
the  various  peacekeeping  and 
as  an  example 
stabilization  missions  of 
the  United  Nations 
in 
numerous places around the globe, including Haiti.  
The  same  situation  arises  everywhere:  a  country 

initially  welcomes  the  missions,  but  in  the  medium 
term,  they  lose  steam.  Why?  Problems  arise  because 
the  expectations  of  the  host  country  are  excessive. 
Furthermore, missions cannot operate when they work 
under  inflexible  terms  of  reference.  That  is  to  be 
regretted,  because  nothing  would  more  irresponsible 
and  dangerous  than  to  let  missions  leave  before  an 
effective national alternative is in place.  

In  the  case  of  Haiti,  what  would  the  United 
Nations Mission have accomplished if today, suddenly 
and without any warning, it were to be withdrawn? Of 
course, I am aware of the fact that unacceptable errors 
have been committed and have affected the prestige of 
the Mission, but the trees must not be allowed to hide 
the  forest.  I  believe  that  political  stabilization  goes 
through a number of stages. It cannot be based simply 
on  an  intervention  force  or  a  more  or  less  neutral 
observer presence. That would reflect a very simplified 
view  of  the  primary  role  of  the  United  Nations. 
Stabilization  is  more  than  that. Thus,  the  Government 
policy  that  I  stand  for  consists  of  four  main  pillars: 
A/66/PV.20
that  we  will  stop  smothering 
education,  employment,  environment  and  the  rule  of 
law.  

How can we build peace unless there is universal 
and  free  basic  education  in  a  country  where  there  is 
massive  illiteracy?  How  can  we  promote  sustainable 
development  without  high  quality  education 
that 
promotes  citizen  values,  ensures  gender  equality, 
values cultural identity and openness to the world, and 
leads to tolerance? 

With respect to jobs, allow me to say that we can 
talk  as  much  as  we  like  about  human  dignity  and 
human rights, and about stabilization and peace, but an 
empty  stomach  is  deaf  to  words.  It  is  by  creating 
decent jobs that are properly paid and that respect the 
rights  of  vulnerable  categories  of  people  that  justice 
begins.  It  is  by  a  fair  distribution  of  the  income  from 
raw  materials 
the 
countries of the South and put an end to the speculation 
that undermines democracy.  

On  these  major  themes,  nations  must  come 
together  and  come  still  closer  together.  They  must  be 
committed  to  combating  deforestation  and  climate 
change.  We  must  also  seriously  take  into  account  the 
problem of water. There will be no peace in the world 
as  long  as  the  living  conditions  of  countries  such  as 
mine  are  so  poor  that  they  lead  to  natural  disasters 
becoming even more tragic, floods even worse, drought 
even  more  deadly  and  the  rural  exodus  even  more 
widespread.  

today  also  means,  above  all, 
establishing  the  rule  of  law,  but  the  rule  of  law 
requires,  inter  alia,  an  independent,  responsible  and 
strong  justice  system.  It  also  means  the  ongoing  and 
difficult  but  necessary  establishment  of 
strong 
institutions  that  are  stronger  than  privilege  and  group 
interest.  

The  world  will  become  more  beautiful  when  we 
stop  talking  about  condemning  or  accusing  people. 
Haiti  has  been  witness  to  that  fact.  But  Haiti  can  also 
say that in post-disaster assistance, the disbursement of 
funds  that  are  not  subject  to  inflexible,  complex  and 
clumsy  red  tape  are  those  that  are  best  adapted  to 
needs.  Therefore,  those  procedures,  even  if  they  are 
supported,  allow 
take 
ownership  of  the  strategic  initiatives  concerning  their 
future.  Specifically,  in  terms  of  the  resources  made 
available to the affected populations, it is also desirable 
Stabilization 
the  affected  countries 
to 
11-51191 

21 


A/66/PV.20 

that  pledges  be  followed  up  with  action  and  that 
reconstruction projects be actually implemented.  

In a word, I would say that it would be very sad 
to see the left hand taking back what the right hand had 
given.  The  temptation  exists;  it  is  the  result  of  a 
difficult  global  economic  context.  But,  once  again, 
truth  alone  must  prevail,  because  when  reconstruction 
is left to wait, the long wait can lead to impatience and 
bring  harm.  In  the  case  of  Haiti,  as  in  other  post-
conflict  situations,  the  United  Nations  and  friendly 
nations should come to our aid to help us to reconstruct 
more  than  just  a  physical  space,  but  reconstruct  men 
and  women,  to  whom  we  must  give  hope.  Beyond 
concepts  and  abstractions,  this  is  above  all  a  human 
story.  This  is  the  new  order  we  are  here  to  speak  of 
today: putting human beings back into the heart of the 
central  debates  of  our  time.  This  is  the  momentum  in 
which we are caught up and which is shared by billions 
of  people  in  the  grip  of  disasters,  forced  exoduses, 
conflicts and epidemics.  

In solidarity with those other victims, the Haitian 
people  wish  to  send  a  very  clear  message  from  the 
platform  of  the  United  Nations.  As  long  as  there  are 
men  and  women  of  good  will,  there  will  be  hope. As 
long as there are nations united in solidarity, there will 
be  hope.  We 
in  Haiti  have  experienced  every 
conceivable  kind  of  catastrophe:  every  form  of  man-
made  disaster  and  all  the  natural  ones,  aggravated  by 
the systematic, irresponsible destruction committed by 
human beings. We have known epidemics and hunger, 
even marginalization, but Haiti is now back on its feet, 
ready  to  rebuild  and  ready  for  a  new  start.  Nothing  is 
predetermined.  It  is  this  new  Haiti  that  is  open  to  the 
world,  this  new  Haiti  that  is  open  to  new  investments 
and  collaborations,  to  reconstruction,  dialogue  and 
peace. And  it  is  this  new  Haiti  that  says  thank  you  to 
all those assembled here.  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Haiti for the statement he 
has just made. 

Mr.  Michel  Joseph  Martelly,  President  of  the 
Republic of Haiti, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall. 
Mr.  Zinsou  (Benin),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

22 

to 
into 
Address by Mr. Pierre Nkurunziza, President of the 
Republic of Burundi 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Burundi.  

Mr. Pierre Nkurunziza, President of the Republic 
of  Burundi,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Pierre  Nkurunziza,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Burundi, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Nkurunziza  (spoke  in  French):  I 

should  like,  first  of  all,  to  associate  myself  with 
previous speakers in congratulating the President of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session  and  the 
members  of  the  Bureau  for  their  election.  We  would 
also  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the  sixty-fifth 
session  for  his  work  in  presiding  over  the  Assembly 
last year. 
We also take this opportunity to congratulate His 

Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  on  his  appointment  to  a 
second 
the  United 
Nations.  That  reappointment  is  vivid  testimony  of  his 
successes 
the  promotion  of 
international  peace  and  security,  human  rights  and 
sustainable development. 

The  process  of  consolidating  peace  in  Burundi, 
with  the  support  of  the  United  Nations,  led  to  the 
successful organization of the 2010 elections through a 
process  of  consensus  and  thanks  to  an  electoral  code 
that  was  published  following  consultations  with  all 
stakeholders.  That  spirit  of  dialogue  in  the  process  of 
consolidating  peace,  also  allowed  our  parliament  to 
establish  an  ombudsman  position  and  an  independent 
National  Human  Rights  Commission.  This  same 
process  has  allowed  us  to  develop  a  second  set  of 
instruments  in  our  campaign  against  poverty,  namely, 
the law governing political parties, new property rights 
codes,  Burundi  Vision  2025,  a  national  strategy  for 
democratic  government, 
against 
corruption. 

Genuine  democracy  now  exists  in  Burundi.  The 
examples  referred  to  earlier,  along  with  maintaining 
channels  of  communication,  holding  meetings  with 
implementing 
civil  society  and 
term  as  Secretary-General  of 
the  process  of 
in  contributing 
to 
and 
the 
fight 
11-51191 
is 
traceable 
to  problems 


transitional justice mechanisms, are all additional proof 
of  this  fact.  Burundi  has  opened  a  dialogue  with 
everyone. We can all note with satisfaction, then, that a 
new chapter has been opened in the history of Burundi. 

Democratically  elected  institutions  have  led  to 
peace for the first time. The people have decided what 
should be done, and there has been a peaceful transfer 
of  power.  I  pay  tribute  to  the  people  of  Burundi  for 
being able to break with the tragic habits of the past, in 
which  the  outcome  of  elections  was  not  respected. 
Today,  the  institutions  that  have  been  established  are 
legitimate  and  have  the  constitutional  duty  to  protect 
the  people,  ensure  the  stability  of  the  country  and 
promote development. 

Let  us,  however,  have  no  illusions. There  is  still 
insecurity  in  the  aftermath  of  the  socio-economic 
reinsertion  of  former  combatants.  There  are  also 
ongoing  problems  with  the  transitional  regime,  along 
with  a  temporary  decline  in  the  economic  situation  of 
our  people,  which 
in 
agriculture,  climate  change  and  a  spike  in  prices 
generally and oil. 
We  should  not  forget  the  fact  that  Burundi  is  a 

post-conflict  country.  In 
that  connection,  we  are 
pleased by the surrender of more than 80,000 weapons, 
which  people  have  handed  over.  Furthermore,  a 
disarmament commission has been established and the 
national  police  have  begun  to  scout  for  weapons  and 
confiscate them from criminals.  

In the area of development, Burundi is continuing 
its  efforts  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. The  number  of  children  is  rising,  as  is  that  for 
teachers,  because  primary  education  is  now  free.  We 
have  undertaken  a  number  of  reforms  to  train  our 
young  people  for  employment.  The  Government  has 
undertaken to bring together people in villages so as to 
ensure the provision of basic services such as drinking 
water, energy, health care, schools and decent housing, 
which  facilitates  reconciliation,  security  and 
job 
creation.  This  is  in  addition  to  free  health  care  for 
children aged 5 and under and for pregnant women and 
women who give birth in public health clinics.  
To  that  end,  community-level  endeavours  have 

enabled us to build more than 2,024 schools and more 
than  80  health  centres  and  set  up  more 
than 
2,000 pumps for the provision of drinking water — all 
of  this  in  three  years  and  without  any  external 
assistance. 
A/66/PV.20
regret 
the 
continuing 
We 
efforts 
Numerous  development 

are  being 
undertaken  in  several  key  national  sectors  aimed  at 
enhancing the lives of our people, taking advantage of 
the  integration  of  Burundi  into  the  East  African 
community. 

security-related 
incidents  caused  by  armed  bandits,  land  conflicts  and 
the  presence  of  negative  forces  in  certain  areas  of  the 
Great  Lakes  region.  We  were  shocked  by  the  terrible 
tragedy  that  took  place  in  Gatumba  on  18  September 
2011. On that dark night, a bloody attack took place in 
a  nightclub  that  caused  the  deaths  of  about  40  people  — 
children, young people, elderly people — of all ethnic 
groups, genders and political leanings.  

The  Government  reached  out  to  the  suffering 
people,  paying  the  costs  of  the  funerals  and  attending 
them.  The  Government  also  decided 
to  provide 
treatment  for  all  those  who  were  injured  during  the 
tragedy,  and  a  three-day  period  of  mourning  was 
announced and observed. 

We  strongly  condemn  that  heinous  attack  and 
have called for an inquiry, which should be concluded 
within a month. Thanks to genuine cooperation on the 
part  of 
the  people,  who,  having  demonstrated 
considerable  restraint,  denounced  those  who  allegedly 
planned  and  carried  out  the  attack,  we  are  pleased  to 
say that we have made progress in the investigations.  

This is yet a further reflection of the commitment 
of  the  people  of  Burundi  to  peace,  which  should 
reassure  everyone  with  regard  to  the  viability  and 
stability of Burundi. That act, while it calls for further 
vigilance on the part of us all, should not be considered 
to reflect the current state of our country; if should be 
seen  as  an  act  of  terrorism  —  an  isolated  incident 
within the overall context of peace in our country. Such 
acts  of 
terrorism,  massacres  and  crimes  against 
humanity  are,  unfortunately,  being  carried  out  in  a 
number  of  countries,  which  makes  it  incumbent  upon 
all  of  us  firmly  to  combat  them  and  bring  their 
perpetrators to justice. 

to 
the 
unreservedly condemn this heinous act and to assist us 
in  prosecuting  the  masterminds  and  their  henchmen. 
We call also on the international community to support 
the  operationalization  of  the  National  Independent 
Human Rights Commission that, in a positive step, was 
recently established in Burundi. 
international  community 
We  call  on 
11-51191 

23 

A/66/PV.20 


We  take  this  opportunity  also  to  note  that 
investigation commissions are at work to shed light on 
the assassinations that have taken place in various parts 
of  the  country.  We  hope  that  the  truth  about  these 
events  will  soon  be  known  and  those  responsible  will 
be brought to justice. 

Our  domestic  situation  is  satisfactory,  but  we 
cannot  but  be  aware  of  regional  and  international 
concerns.  Thus  the  situation  in  Somalia,  in  which 
Burundi is deeply involved through its participation in 
the  African  Union  Mission 
in  Somalia,  requires 
additional  partners  in  order  for  the  country  to  be 
stabilized  and  prepared  for  elections.  Those  efforts 
should  be  carried  out  in  the  context  of  international 
measures  to  combat  terrorism  and  also  to  ensure  food 
security.  

In  order  to  be  successful  in  the  combat  against 
terrorism, global governance must be able to meet that 
challenge. There is therefore an urgent need for reform 
of 
interaction 
between  the  Council  and  the  General Assembly  on  all 
issues of global interest. 
Before  closing,  we  would  like  to  congratulate 

South  Sudan  on  having  joined  the  family  of  nations, 
and we support the resolve of the Sudan and of South 
Sudan  to  seek  ways  to  peacefully  settlement  post-
referendum issues.  

We  would  like  to  close  by  calling  on  the 
Assembly  to  speed  up  the  quest  to  find  a  balance 
between development and the survival of our planet. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Burundi for the statement 
he has just made. 

Mr. Pierre Nkurunziza, President of the Republic 
of  Burundi,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall.  
the  Security  Council  and  ongoing 


Address by Mr. Emanuel Mori, President and Head 
of Government of the Federated States of Micronesia  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President 
and  Head  of  Government  of  the  Federated  States  of 
Micronesia. 

Mr.  Emanuel  Mori,  President  and  Head  of 
Government  of 
the  Federated  States  of 
into 
to 
appreciate 
the  General 
As  a  member  of 
Micronesia,  was  escorted 
Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Emanuel Mori, President and Head of Government 
of  the  Federated  States  of  Micronesia,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly.  
President  Mori:  Let  me  begin  by  extending  my 

warm congratulations to Mr. Al-Nasser as President of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session.  His 
strong leadership will continue the high standard set by 
his predecessor. I wish also to express to the Secretary-
General  my  deepest  appreciation 
for  his  many 
contributions and accomplishments, one of which is his 
recent  visit  to  the  South  Pacific  island  countries.  I 
congratulate him and wish him well in his second term. 
Last  July,  the  Security  Council  took  a  giant  step 

with 
the  adoption  of  a  presidential 
statement 
(S/PRST/2011/15)  during  its  debate  on  the  issue  of 
climate  change  and  its  security  implications. We  were 
encouraged by that bold step. 
island 

developing  States 
the 
unprecedented action taken by the Security Council as 
we continue to face the threat to our existence and the 
loss  of  territorial  integrity  and  sovereignty  resulting 
from  the  adverse  impacts  of  climate  change  and  sea-
level  rise.  The  concerns  expressed  by  the  Council  in 
connection  with 
in  particular 
concerning  sea-level  rise  as  a  security  threat,  is  an 
important step. 

We  cannot  but  notice,  however,  the  persistent 
failure and reluctance by some countries to address the 
security  aspect  of  climate  change,  even  in  the  face  of 
overwhelming  scientific  evidence.  We  believe  that 
those who opposed the debate in the Council and those 
who  doubted  the  security  implications  of  climate 
change simply ignored the obvious.  

We respectfully ask those members who opposed 
the  debate  and  those  who  are  still  in  doubt  to  fulfil 
their  responsibilities  under  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.  We  also  take  note  of  the  positions  of  those 
who  aspire  to  membership  in  the  Council,  and  we 
thank  those  countries  who  supported  our  cause.  I 
strongly urge the Security Council, and for that matter 
the whole United Nations system, to utilize innovative 
the  Pacific  small 
(SIDS),  we 
climate 
change, 
24 

11-51191 


ways  to  address  the  concerns  of  the  most  vulnerable 
Members of this Organization. 

We are grateful for the historic visit by Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  to  our  region  on  the  fortieth 
anniversary  of  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum.  It  was  also 
the first time in the 66-year history of this body that a 
Secretary-General  has  ever  visited  any  Pacific  small 
island  developing  State  —  on  this  occasion,  Kiribati 
and  the  Solomon  Islands.  We  are  confident  that  the 
Secretary-General’s  visit  will  give  a  greater  sense  of 
urgency to the issue of climate change. 

Climate change is no longer a hypothetical issue 
but  a  real  tragedy,  as  we  in  the  Pacific  region  are 
already experiencing its adverse effects. These impacts 
will  continue  to  worsen  until  countries  like  mine 
disappear,  unless  immediate  and  decisive  actions  are 
taken  by  this  body  to  mitigate  climate  change  at  first 
evidence.  
It  is  imperative  that  we  immediately  begin  to 

reduce emissions of long-lasting greenhouse gases like 
carbon  dioxide.  We  must  complement  the  action  on 
carbon dioxide by reducing short-lived climate forcers 
such as black carbon, methane, tropospheric ozone and 
hydrofluorocarbons  in  order  to  prevent  an  additional 
increase  of  as  much  as  one  degree  Celsius  in  global 
warming over the next decades. Reducing these short-
lived agents is one of the surest ways to protect some 
of  the  Earth’s  most  vulnerable  regions  such  as  the 
Federated States of Micronesia. 

I therefore call upon the international community 
to join this strategic approach to meeting the challenge 
of climate change. The time to act is now. 

More  than  60  years  ago,  my  island  country,  the 
Federated  States  of  Micronesia,  drew  world  attention 
as  a  battleground  in  the  Pacific  conflict.  Today,  the 
remnants  of  approximately  60  shipwrecks  from  that 
conflict  are  posing  threats  to  the  lives  of  our  people, 
our 
ecosystem. 
Approximately 32 million litres of oil contained in the 
bellies of the wrecks are a ticking environmental time 
bomb.  Leading  experts  on  underwater  corrosion  have 
warned  that  the  shipwrecks  will  collapse,  and  when 
they  do,  we  believe  that  oil  from  these  wrecks  could 
create  a  spill  on  a  massive  scale,  with  an  impact 
comparable  to  the  disaster  last  year  in  the  Gulf  of 
Mexico. 
the  marine 
environment 
and 
A/66/PV.20

Oil  from  these  shipwrecks  in  my  state  of  Chuuk 
has  already  started  leaking. Any  disaster  could  have  a 
devastating  effect  on  the  environment,  our  food  chain 
and  the  surrounding  reefs  that  serve  as  breeding 
grounds for many fish species. It would also adversely 
impact our tourism industry, which depends largely on 
coral  and  shipwreck  diving.  Thus  to  avoid  a  major 
environmental  disaster,  I  am  now  appealing  to  the 
international community for immediate assistance. 

Twenty years ago my country gained membership 
in the Organization, just in time to become a part of the 
movement  known  as  the  Rio  process.  Out  of  that 
process,  the  principle  of  sustainability  became  a 
mandate  for  development.  For  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  (Rio+20), 
Micronesia  and  other  small  island  developing  States 
have been calling for recognition of what we term the 
“blue  economy”.  As  island  nations  with  millions  of 
square  miles  of  the  blue  Pacific,  we  naturally  have 
particular affinity and concerns for the ocean. 

Our  ocean’s  resources  have  enormous  strategic 
value.  We  depend  on  them  for  our  subsistence  living 
and  cultural  identity  as  seafarers  of  the  Pacific.  The 
blue Pacific has opened up new horizons in sustainable 
economic development activities. As custodian of these 
resources, we welcome the participation of our partners 
in the utilization of these resources, but for too long we 
have  not  received  an  equitable  and  fair  share  of  our 
ocean bounties. 
The  development  of  our  ocean  resources  is 

severely  hampered  by 
selfish 
behaviours  of  illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated 
fishing.  If  unabated,  these  kinds  of  behaviour  will 
continue to deprive our people and our nascent fishing 
industries of millions of dollars in revenues every year. 
The  fishing  industry  is  further  adversely  affected  by 
ocean acidification caused by climate change. 
Conservation  and  sustainable  management  of 

oceanic  resources 
important,  because  we  will 
continue to depend on the ocean in the years ahead. It 
is  for  that  reason  that  we  have  committed  to  various 
conservation activities in the Micronesian region. One 
in  particular  is  our  support  for  the  establishment  of 
shark  sanctuaries.  The  Federated  States  of  Micronesia 
has  joined  Palau  and  other  countries  in  committing  a 
vast  area  in  our  Micronesian  region  to  be  a  sanctuary 
for sharks. 
continuous 
the 
is 
11-51191 

25 

to  consider  a 
A/66/PV.20 


The  current  mechanisms  for  follow-up  on  the 
implementation of the Barbados Programme of Action 
and the Mauritius Strategy for Further Implementation 
are  unlikely  to  provide  the  momentum  necessary  to 
take  concrete  steps  as  part  of  a  results-oriented 
approach. New and additional measures to address the 
unique  and  particular  vulnerabilities  and  development 
of SIDS are required. 
Along with the Pacific SIDS, we are advancing a 

proposal  for  Rio+20 
third  Global 
Conference  on  the  Sustainable  Development  of  SIDS. 
We  must  build  upon  the  momentum  of  Rio+20  to 
convene  a  third  Global  Conference  to  refocus  and 
develop  new  and  additional  measures  that  are  results-
oriented  to  support  the  sustainable  development  of 
SIDS. 

A  special  category  for  small  island  developing 
States is imperative if the United Nations is to improve 
the lot of the disadvantaged peoples of SIDS. After all, 
realities  demand  it.  I  therefore  reiterate  the  call  made 
last  year  by  my  own  country  and  other  small  island 
developing  States  for  the  creation  of  that  special 
category. 

I am grateful for the attention paid by the United 
Nations  High-level  Meeting  on  Non-communicable 
Diseases (NCDs) held earlier in the week. 
It  is  a  major  concern  for  us  in  the  Pacific  SIDS 

that 
reached 
non-communicable 
epidemic proportions. If allowed to continue unabated, 
NCDs  could  potentially  undermine  our  labour  supply, 
productivity, 
education,  with 
devastating 
economic 
development. I echo the sentiments on NCDs expressed 
by  Pacific 
importance  of 
immediate  and  decisive  actions  by  Governments,  the 
private  sector,  civil  society,  regional  and  international 
organizations  and  development  partners 
to  work 
together  to  address  what  is  now  a  human,  social  and 
economic crisis for us in the Pacific. 

At  the  beginning  of  the  current  session,  we 
witnessed history of another kind unfolding in the Hall. 
For  the  first  time,  a  female  President  stood  at  this 
podium  to  open  the  general  debate.  I  join  other  world 
leaders  in  congratulating  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Dilma 
Rousseff  of  Brazil  on  her  many  achievements.  The 
challenge  for  this  body  is  to  continue  to  encourage 
women from all nations to participate on an equal basis 
investment 
consequences 
and 
for 
diseases 
have 
our 
leaders 
regarding 
the 
at  all  levels  of  political  decision-making  processes. 
After all, women are equal partners in families. 

In  joining  the  debate  on  the  Israeli-Palestinian 
issue, my country urges the international community to 
remain steadfast in upholding the principles of peaceful 
coexistence as enshrined in the United Nations Charter. 
We  continue  to  support  Israel’s  right  to  live  within 
secure  and  recognized  borders,  free  from  the  fear  of 
terrorism.  We  also  acknowledge  Palestine’s  right  to 
statehood,  which  can  be  achieved  only  through  a 
negotiated  settlement  between  the  two  parties.  I  agree 
with  President  Obama  that  there  are  no  shortcuts  to 
solving this problem. 

Just halfway into the year, people everywhere are 
experiencing the impact of natural disasters, making it 
the costliest year on record. They have caused not only 
property  damage  but  also  the  loss  of  human  lives.  I 
want to extend my people’s sincere sympathies for the 
lives lost and the suffering everywhere. 

On  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  my  country’s 
admission  to  the  United  Nations,  we  pledge  to  do  our 
best  to  support  the  goals  of  this  Organization  for  the 
benefit of our people and all peoples around the world. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  and  Head  of  Government  of  the  Federated 
States  of  Micronesia  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

Mr.  Emanuel  Mori,  President  and  Head  of 
the  Federated  States  of 
Government  of 
Micronesia,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
from 


Address by Mr. Ikililou Dhoinine, President of the 
Union of the Comoros 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Union of the Comoros. 

Mr.  Ikililou  Dhoinine,  President  of  the  Union  of 
the  Comoros,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Ikililou  Dhoinine,  President  of  the  Union  of  the 
Comoros, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
to 
26 

11-51191 


President  Dhoinine  (spoke  in  French):  It  is  a 

great  honour  and  a  privilege  for  me  to  address  this 
Assembly  for  the  first  time  since  I  took  office  as 
President of the Union of the Comoros, on 26 May.  

Allow  me  at  the  outset  to  warmly  congratulate 
His Excellency Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser on his 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-sixth  session.  I  wish  also  to  congratulate  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss  and  his  entire  team  on 
their  remarkable  work.  Lastly,  I  should  like  to  pay  a 
well-deserved  tribute  to  the  Secretary-General,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for  his  commendable 
and  unceasing  efforts  to  ensure  that  our  Organization 
can  better  meet  its  objectives  in  a  world  increasingly 
marked  by  all  kinds  of  crises:  political,  economic, 
social and environmental. 

The  Assembly  is  convening  in  its  sixty-sixth 
session  at  a  time  when  all  humankind  is  struggling 
through  one  of  its  most  difficult  times.  Indeed,  peace, 
the  most  precious  common  good  in  the  world,  has 
never been more threatened. It is under threat on all of 
our continents, in our regions, in our subregions and in 
every one of our countries. It is threatened by political 
crises,  diseases  and  natural  disasters.  It 
is  also 
threatened  by  poor  living  conditions,  unemployment, 
insecurity and underdevelopment. 

in  various 
regions of the world and the recent uprisings in North 
Africa and the Middle East have claimed, and continue 
to  claim,  many  victims.  Our  countries  continue  to  be 
burdened by emerging diseases, but also and especially 
by  non-communicable  diseases.  In  fact,  cancers, 
diabetes  and,  in  particular,  cardiovascular  diseases 
have  taken  many  lives  in  our  countries  and  threaten 
their development.  

The  problem  of  education  and  the  lack  of  basic 
infrastructure,  energy  and  potable  water  also  pose  a 
threat  to  peace  and  security  in  many  developing 
countries.  Moreover,  no  country  today  is  safe  from 
natural  disasters 
to  climate  change.  This 
situation 
island 
is  all 
developing States such as mine. 
I  need  not  mention  the  toxic  effects  of  the 

financial crisis, which continues to affect our countries 
and  seriously  compromises  the  future  of  the  global 
economy.  Therefore,  I  should  like  to  issue  an  urgent 
appeal  to  the  international  community  to  enhance  its 
role in seeking rapid resolutions of all of these crises. 
that  have  emerged 
linked 
the  more 
The  hotspots 
tragic 
in  small 
A/66/PV.20
in  re-launching 

Indeed, only by working together and effectively 
to  fight  disease  will  we  be  able  to  ensure  that  our 
populations  are  healthy  and  our  human  resources  are 
more  productive.  By  joining  our  efforts,  we  may  also 
curb unemployment through education and job creation 
and  succeed 
the  socio-economic 
development  of  our  countries.  In  addition,  eradicating 
corruption  —  which  is  increasingly  rampant  in  our 
countries  —  will  help  us  succeed  in  re-launching 
development, which is an essential factor of peace and 
stability.  Moreover,  by  strengthening  the  culture  of 
democracy  and  rule  of  law,  our  countries  will  evolve 
towards  greater  peace  and  stability,  which  are  key 
conditions for sustainable development.  
The President took the Chair.  


We  must  further  develop  solidarity  among  the 
member countries of this concert of nations. That must 
be done to bring our world out of its vulnerable state. 
The efforts of the developing countries in increasingly 
difficult  situations  will  not  succeed  without  active 
solidarity. The quasi-collective mobilization effort seen 
today in Europe and generally in the West to stem the 
financial crisis is most commendable. However, it must 
be extended to other sectors and continents. Likewise, 
it is indeed appropriate to act swiftly and in unison to 
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals,  which 
have inspired so much hope in our countries.  

In this world in crisis, the Union of the Comoros 
has  for  the  second  time  experienced  an  exemplary, 
peaceful change at the top level of the State. However, 
its  solid  footing  in  democracy  and  good  governance 
will  become  truly  irreversible  only  when  poverty, 
misery and vulnerability cease to exist. That is why we 
have  taken  measures  to  fight  corruption  and  to  better 
use  our  national  resources  and  preserve  and  protect 
biodiversity. Indeed, as a small island developing State 
that  is  directly  concerned,  we  attach  very  special 
attention  to  the  question  of  climate  change  and  the 
environment.  We  work  every  day  to  improve  the 
standard  of  living  of  our  fellow  citizens.  But  we  also 
need the support of the international community. 

In addition, and despite its difficult situation, my 
country  will  never  set  aside  its  responsibility  to  act 
within the international community. We intend to offer 
our modest contribution to mankind’s quest for a better 
world.  Thus  we  take  an  active  part  in  building  peace 
and  security  by  participating  in  the  Eastern  Africa 
Standby  Brigade,  in  accordance  with  the  requests  of 
11-51191 

27 

likely 
A/66/PV.20 

the  international  community. While  we  are  aware  that 
our  means  are  modest,  we  intend  to  play  our  role 
the  African  Union-United  Nations  Hybrid 
within 
Operation 
in  Darfur,  because  promoting  peace 
anywhere  in  the  world,  particularly  in Africa,  remains 
for us a major imperative. 

Terrorism, piracy and other transborder organized 
crime,  including  the  trafficking  of  drugs  and  light 
weapons, are direct threats today to human security and 
to the national security of many countries. My country 
is  doing  its  best  to  combat  those  scourges.  But  the 
international  community  must  also  provide  greater 
assistance  towards  prevention,  both  structurally  and 
operationally.  Early  warning  mechanisms,  exchanges 
of  information  and  experiences,  mutual  assistance  in 
training, organization and capacity-building will enable 
States  and  regional  organizations,  particularly  the 
African Union, to enhance their capacities. 

Issues that have remained unresolved, sometimes 
for  decades,  are  sources  of  conflicts 
to 
jeopardize the cause of peace and security. That is the 
case in the question of Madagascar. The political crisis 
affecting the  brotherly people of Madagascar deserves 
the  full  attention  of  the  international  community.  The 
current  efforts  of  the  transitional  Government,  under 
the  aegis  of 
the  Southern  African  Development 
Community,  call  for  multiform  support  from  the 
international  community  so  that  that  large  island  can 
finally regain peace and security for the well-being of 
its people. 

The  same  is  true  with  regard  to  the  question  of 
Palestine.  The  Comoros  has  always  supported  the 
struggle  of 
the  brotherly  Palestinian  people  and 
supports the request of the Palestinian authorities to the 
international  community  for  the  recognition  of  a 
Palestinian State in its borders of June 1967, with East 
Jerusalem as its capital. Indeed, for more than 30 years 
Israel’s  occupation  of  Palestinian  lands  has  remained 
an unresolved issue. As for my country, it supports that 
recognition and appeals to all countries that love peace, 
freedom and justice to do the same. 

The Union of the Comoros cannot have any other 
position on that question, since it is directly concerned 
by  another  equally  sensitive  question  that  affects  not 
only its national unity, territorial integrity and history, 
and  international  law,  but  also  peace  in  the  Indian 
Ocean  region.  Here  I  refer  to  the  question  of  the 
Comorian island of Mayotte.  
the 
imposed  by 
is  for  us  and  for 

Allow  me  to  emphasize  that  the  inclusion  of  the 
question  of  the  Comorian  island  of  Mayotte  on  the 
agenda  of  several  sessions  of  the  General  Assembly 
and in relevant resolutions of the Assembly, the African 
Union, the League of Arab States and the Organization 
of Islamic Cooperation has not yet provided a solution 
to  this  thorny  question,  which  has  placed  us  in 
opposition to France for decades.  

As the Assembly is aware, the unilateral decision 
of  France  to  make  the  Comorian  island  of  Mayotte  a 
département 
international 
community  null  and  void  and  can  in  no  way  be 
considered  a  fait  accompli.  Furthermore,  the  visa 
regime 
the  French  authorities  on 
Comorians  of  the  three  other  islands  has  broken  up 
many families by turning the sea channel that separates 
Mayotte  from  its  sister  island  Anjouan  into  a  huge 
cemetery,  where  rest  the  remains  of  thousands  of  my 
compatriots who only wished to gain access to a part of 
their territory. 

However, we cannot simply continue to condemn 
without any follow-up, or maintain fixed positions that 
do  not  contribute  to  the  settlement  of  the  issue,  while 
we  continue  daily  to  witness  many  losses  due  to  the 
visa regime imposed by France. 

Therefore,  I  wish  to  reiterate  from  this  rostrum 
my  country’s  legitimate  determination  to  continue  to 
claim  the  reintegration  of  the  Comorian  island  of 
Mayotte  as  part  of  its  natural  grouping.  However,  we 
hope  to  be  able  to  conduct  this  struggle  by  means  of 
the necessary negotiations with France — an economic 
partner  of  the  Comoros  —  but  also  and  above  all 
through including our brothers  and  sisters in Mayotte, 
because there can be no realistic and lasting solution to 
the dispute without their involvement. 

That is the new approach that I proposed as soon 
as I was inaugurated to settle the territorial conflict that 
has  divided  my  country  and  France  for  just  over 
30 years.  Indeed,  I  believe  that  any  search  for  a 
solution  to  this  thorny  problem  must  include  our 
Mahorais brothers and sisters, with whom we share ties 
knitted  through  history,  blood,  language,  religion  and 
culture. We believe that the large Comorian diaspora in 
France  and  the  island  of  Réunion  can  join  with  its 
brothers  and  sisters  of  Mayotte  and  the  other  three 
Comorian islands in order finally to renew their natural 
bonds,  carry  out  projects  and  live  out  their  common 
destiny in harmony. 
28 

11-51191 



In this light, and in our desire to see this problem — 
which  has  lasted  too  long  —  be  finally  settled 
favourably and peacefully, that we hope to promote the 
negotiations  with  France  and  our  Mahorais  brothers 
and sisters that we believe to be essential.  

Speaking  of  territorial  integrity,  I  would  like  to 
make  particular  mention  of  countries  that  occupy  a 
special place in Comorians’ hearts. For the Kingdom of 
Morocco, a brother country whose legitimate positions 
on 
the  Western  Sahara  my  country  has  always 
supported,  I  hope  that  the  dialogue  being  held  under 
the auspices of the United Nations will quickly lead to 
a  peaceful  solution  to  the  problem.  To  the  People’s 
Republic of China, that great country and friend to the 
Comoros, we here reaffirm our unfailing support for it 
in  its  legitimate  struggle  for  one  China,  developing  in 
peace and prosperity. 

I  cannot  speak  of  justice  and  equity  without 
bringing  up  the  need  for  internal  reform  of  our 
Organization,  particularly  the  Security  Council.  We 
believe 
that  only  better  representation  of  every 
continent  on  the  Council,  including  the  essential 
African  presence  as  a  permanent  member,  can  ensure 
better cohesion within the international community and 
thus do away with frustration and antagonism. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  thank  all  the 
friendly  countries  and  the  regional  and  international 
organizations  that  continue  to  support  us  in  multiple 
ways 
to  re-launch  our  country’s 
socio-economic  development.  In  particular,  I  thank 
Qatar,  which  hosted  the  conference  on  assistance  in 
investment  and  development  in  the  Comoros,  the 
commitments  for  which  have  begun  to  materialize, 
thanks  to  the  untiring  efforts  of  high-level  Qatari 
authorities.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  American 
Administration for its kind efforts to make our stay in 
this great and beautiful country enjoyable. 

the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Union of 
the Comoros for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Ikililou  Dhoinine,  President  of  the  Union  of 
the  Comoros,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
in  our  efforts 
Address by Mr. Anote Tong, President, Head of 
Government and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Republic of Kiribati  


A/66/PV.20
to 
into 
join  previous  speakers 

The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  President,  Head  of  Government  and 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the  Republic  of 
Kiribati. 

Mr.  Anote  Tong,  President,  Head  of  Government 
and  Minister  for  Foreign Affairs  of  the  Republic 
of  Kiribati,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Anote  Tong,  President, 
Head  of  Government  and  Minister  for  Foreign Affairs 
of the Republic of Kiribati, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly. 
President Tong: I bring warm greetings from the 

people  of  Kiribati,  on  whose  behalf  I  address  the 
Assembly.  I  wish 
in 
congratulating  you,  Mr.  President,  on  your  election  to 
the  presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
sixth session.  

We  gather  here  every  year  as  world  leaders  to 
represent our peoples and to discuss issues of concern 
to  the  global  community. At  this  session  our  theme  is 
the  role  of  mediation  in  the  settlement  of  disputes  by 
peaceful means, which is appropriate in its reminder to 
us  that  peace  and  security  are  indeed  crucial  to  the 
continued  harmonious  existence  of  mankind  on  this 
planet. 
As a global community we constantly face many 

challenges 
to  our  political,  social  and  economic 
stability.  Natural  and  human-induced  disasters  have 
caused  much  suffering  in  different  regions  of  the 
world.  Countries  and  peoples  are  facing  all  kinds  of 
security threats from armed conflicts, terrorism, human 
trafficking, economic recession, climate change and its 
associated  impacts.  As  a  result,  many  communities 
suffer  daily  from  increasing  poverty,  hunger  and 
dislocation. 
in  a 

the 
supposedly 
scrutiny  of 
Is  our  existing 
Organization in its current form equipped to deal with 
these  emerging  issues,  or  is  it  time  to  review  the 
structure  and  effectiveness  of  our 
international 
governance system?  
lack  of  progress  on  climate  change 

negotiations  clearly  demonstrates  the  wide  divergence 
rational  world  community  under 
this  global  body? 
But  how  can  all 
this  be  happening 
The 
11-51191 

29 

A/66/PV.20 

of  positions  on  the  issue.  I  believe  that  unless  we  can 
approach  any  mediation  with  trust  and  commitment, 
we will be caught in the vicious circle of starting with 
our  differences,  in  our  obsession  to  protect  what  we 
perceive to be our critical national interests. 

I  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for 
his comments based on his experience during his recent 
visit to Kiribati. His views are those of an independent 
observer  who  came,  who  saw  and  who  believed.  His 
comments are a powerful endorsement of what we, the 
most  vulnerable  countries,  have  been  saying  over  the 
years,  and  my  hope  is  that  this  will  communicate  the 
need  for  urgent  action  to  all  who  possess  a  sense  of 
moral  responsibility.  Climate  change  will  remain  the 
curse  of  our  planet.  Most  nations  perceive  it  to  be  a 
future event, but for the very few it is already reaching 
disastrous levels. 

Some will argue that climate change does not fall 
within the conventional definition of a security threat, 
but that is simply because it may not be so for them at 
this point in time. In Kiribati, many young people go to 
sleep  each  night  fearing  what  may  happen  to  their 
homes  overnight,  especially  during  very  high  tides. 
The accelerated and continued erosion of our shoreline 
is  destroying  settlements,  and  as  I  speak,  some 
communities  are  relocating  on  the  island.  I  was  glad 
that the Secretary-General was able to understand  and 
feel for himself the sense of threat that our people and 
those of similarly vulnerable countries experience on a 
daily basis. 

In  the  international  climate-change  forums  there 
is  ongoing  dialogue  and  negotiation  in  an  attempt  to 
find  amicable  solutions  to  this  threat.  But  there  is  an 
ongoing  disagreement  on  how  to  address  this  global 
challenge. The question is: how much longer must we 
continue to argue about this? When are we going to do 
something  about  it?  Our  people  and  our  children, 
whose lives and future are under serious threat, look to 
us  for  leadership.  The  urgency  of  the  need  for  action 
cannot be overemphasized.  

At  Cancún,  it  was  my  understanding  that  there 
was  agreement  on  the  need  for  an  urgent  package  to 
address the situation of the most vulnerable countries, 
which are now being seriously affected by the adverse 
impacts  of  climate  change.  Next  year,  we  will  gather 
again  as  world  leaders  to  take  stock  of  what  we  have 
done  since  the  Rio  Summit  in  1992.  It  is  my  fervent 
hope that, in the light of current scientific evidence and 
In  December, 
based  on  the  experiences  of  the  most  vulnerable 
countries,  we  as  a  global  community  will  embark  on 
bold  and  innovative  initiatives  to  address  the  climate 
change  challenge.  I  acknowledge  with  gratitude  the 
adoption  of  resolutions  63/281  and  65/159  on  the 
possible  security  implications  of  climate  change  and 
the  protection  of  our  global  climate  for  present  and 
future  generations.  And  I  thank  those  who  saw  and 
supported  the  need  to  classify  climate  change  as  a 
security issue. 

there  will  be  another  United 
Nations  Climate  Change  Conference  in  Durban.  I 
acknowledge that climate change negotiations will take 
several years to conclude, but I also believe that there 
is  common  ground  on  which  there  is  no  real  debate. 
The  urgent  need  for  the  flow  of  adaptation  funds  to 
address  the  more  urgent  adaptation  needs  of  the  most 
vulnerable  countries  is  a  matter  on  which  I  believe 
there  is  general  consensus.  But  what  is  the  point  in 
consensus  if  no  concrete  action  follows?  Kiribati  was 
one of the  countries that did not sign the Copenhagen 
Accord  because  of  what  we  saw  as  its  serious 
shortcomings,  but  we  were  subsequently  persuaded  to 
associate ourselves with it on the premise that doing so 
would  trigger  the  flow  of  much-needed  adaptation 
funds  that  had  been  pledged.  Today,  we  continue  to 
await those funds. 
We  all  want  to  achieve  sustainable  development. 

We  are  grateful  to  those  who  have  continued  to  assist 
and  partner  with  us  on  this  journey,  but  our  efforts  at 
achieving  sustainable  growth  will  continue  to  be 
frustrated  by  external  factors.  Ongoing  uncertainty  in 
the  global  economic  climate  and  rising  food  and  fuel 
prices  remain  major  challenges  to  our  sustainable 
development efforts. On top of all that, our increasing 
preoccupation with the impacts of climate change will 
progressively dominate our national agenda.  

It is no surprise, therefore, that we continue to be 
off track in the achievement of most of the Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  the  implementation  of  our 
sustainable  development  agenda  under  our  national 
development  plan. Every step we take  forward we  are 
knocked back two or three due to the many challenges 
we face. It is therefore imperative that climate change 
adaptation 
the  earliest 
opportunity.  Otherwise,  we  will  be  forced  to  divert 
development 
the  most  urgent 
adaptation  needs.  Therefore,  as  we  move  towards 
Durban, it is our hope that the Green Climate Fund can 
funds  be  mobilized  at 
resources 
towards 
30 

11-51191 


be  operationalized  as  soon  as  possible  to  allow  the 
most vulnerable countries to attend to their adaptation 
needs from new resources. 

In the same vein, we believe that all nations and 
peoples  —  including  Taiwan  —  that  play  a  role  in 
international  affairs,  including  contributing  to  climate 
change,  should  also  be  part  of  the  solution.  During 
these  difficult  times,  and  facing  challenges  to  our 
existing  world  order,  we  can  ill  afford  to  isolate  any 
nation that has the capacity to assist in our struggles.  
I believe that, as a global community, we must be 

united  in  our  efforts  to  address  any  security  threat  to 
international  peace  and  security,  be  it  within  States  or 
between  States.  We  need  to  forge  consensus  in  our 
collective  action 
to  promote  and  maintain  our 
collective  security.  Let  us  work  together  as  a  global 
community to address the many conflicts and disputes 
that are posing serious security challenges to our well-
being,  before 
they  consume  and  condemn  our 
civilization to oblivion. 

health, peace and prosperity. 
the  General 

Assembly  I  wish  to  thank  the  President,  Head  of 
Government  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Republic of Kiribati for the statement he has just made. 
Mr.  Anote  Tong,  President,  Head  of  Government 

and  Minister  for  Foreign Affairs  of  the  Republic 
of  Kiribati,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
In  closing,  I  share  our  traditional  blessing  of 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 


Address by Mr. Andry Nirina Rajoelina, President  
of the High Transitional Authority of the Republic  
of Madagascar 
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

address  by  the  President  of  the  High  Transitional 
Authority of the Republic of Madagascar. 

Mr.  Andry  Nirina  Rajoelina,  President  of  the 
High  Transitional  Authority  of  the  Republic  of 
Madagascar,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Andry  Nirina  Rajoelina, 
President  of  the  High  Transitional  Authority  of  the 
into 
A/66/PV.20
Republic  of  Madagascar,  and  to  invite  him  to  address 
the Assembly. 
President  Rajoelina  (spoke  in  French):  After 

three years of political crisis and a three-year absence, 
Madagascar is proud today to resume its place here in 
the  community  of  nations.  On  behalf  of  my  fellow 
countrymen,  I  am  particularly  honoured  to  participate 
in  this  general  debate  under  the  theme  “The  role  of 
mediation  in  the  settlements  of  disputes  by  peaceful 
means”. 
The  successive  crises  around  the  world,  most 

recently  in  North  Africa,  demonstrate  the  importance 
and  relevance  of  that  theme.  Madagascar  has  been 
through  one  itself,  and  it  has  just  taken  a  major  step 
forward  thanks  to  the  help  of  international  mediation, 
which  has  allowed  the  Malagasy  to  reach  a  promising 
consensus.  

I also wish to pay a sincere tribute to the late Dag 
Hammarskjöld,  the  former  Secretary-General  of  this 
great  Organization,  a  pioneer  of  preventive  diplomacy 
and an architect of the concept of peacekeeping, as we 
mark  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  his  tragic  passing. 
During  his  tenure,  he  worked  tirelessly  to  solidify  the 
legitimacy  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  peaceful 
resolution  of  international  disputes.  Now  again,  we 
owe  him  a  great  debt  for  the  universal  recognition  of 
the virtues of mediation in resolving tensions and even 
conflicts. 

We have just commemorated the tragic events of 
11 September 2001, which shook the city of New York 
and  indeed  the  whole  world.  It  is  also  10  years  since 
the  United  Nations  Year  of  Dialogue  among 
Civilizations,  during  which  the  dialogue  of  cultures 
and  the  culture  of  dialogue  were  promoted  on  the 
international  stage  in  order  to  combat  the  clash  of 
civilizations. 

Mr.  Allam-mi  (Chad),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

When we speak of conflicts, we have in mind two 
different ideologies that do not uphold the same values. 
That  can  mean  two  countries,  two  regions  or  even  a 
Government and its people. In the last case, when one 
no  longer  respects  the  other  it  triggers  a  popular 
uprising  that  ends  in  a  conflict,  leading  to  a  crisis; 
hence,  the  importance  of  the  role  of  mediation  in 
settling disputes through peaceful means. 
11-51191 

31 

It 
rise 
to  widespread 
A/66/PV.20 


In that regard, any mediation should collate first-
hand  information.  It  should  see  for  itself  the  realities 
prevailing on the ground in a conflict before proposing 
a solution that would be lasting and acceptable to all. 

History  has  shown  that  the  excessive  acts  of  a 
leader who resorts to force have serious repercussions 
for his country that can lead it into chaos and cost the 
lives  of  dozens,  hundreds,  or  even  thousands  of 
innocent  people. 
is  an  entire  people  who, 
unfortunately,  suffer  the  grave  consequences.  This 
occurs  because  true  solutions  are  often  too  slow  in 
coming,  plunging  a  large  segment  of  humankind  into 
poverty,  since  we  must  respond  to  suffering,  anguish 
and despair. We want to change and we will change. 

To better illustrate my words, allow me to speak 
of the case of my country, Madagascar. Everyone here 
knows as well as I do that the island of Madagascar has 
been  in  political  crisis  since  late  2008.  The  Malagasy 
people rose up with determination to break with a past 
marked  by  poor  governance  and  non-respect  for 
democratic principles, human rights and the rule of law 
that  gave 
impoverishment, 
unbearable  and  inescapable  social  poverty,  and  the 
growing frustration of the majority of my countrymen. 
The Malagasy people therefore demanded a better life 
and  genuine  change,  with  strengthened  respect  for 
universal principles. 
When the search for a solution to the crisis turned 

to 
inclusive 
the  principle  of  consensual  and 
management  of  transition,  and  when  that  consensus 
proved  difficult  to  reach,  commendable  mediation 
efforts among the Malagasy protagonists were made by 
local  civil  society  organizations,  the  bilateral  and 
regional partners of the big island, and the international 
community. 
I  permit  myself  to  mention  here  and  to  strongly 

commend  the  untiring  and  patient  efforts  of  the 
mediation  team  of  the  Southern African  Development 
Community (SADC), a regional body mandated by the 
African Union, as well as the determined initiatives of 
other  entities,  such  as 
the 
International  Organization  of  la  Francophonie  and  the 
Indian  Ocean  Commission.  The  involvement  of  these 
and  all  actors  concerned  in  the  mediation  was  critical 
in  responding  with  effectiveness  and  pragmatism 
commensurate  with  the  emergency  and  in  meeting  the 
vital  needs  of  the  Malagasy  people  and  economy, 
which  could  and  would  have  been  weakened  if  the 
crisis and the negotiations had lasted any longer. 
the  United  Nations, 
the 
that 
that 
leading 
towards 
signed  by 
the  political 
vast  majority 

The  Malagasy  people  were  patient  and  showed 
unprecedented  and  exemplary  courage  in  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  the  political  crisis,  despite  all  the 
economic and social restrictions, as well as the absence 
of  international  aid  that  it  has  suffered  for  the  past 
three  years. The  post-crisis  road  map  for  Madagascar, 
initialled  on 
proposed  by  SADC  mediation,  was 
9 March  and 
factions 
representing 
of  Malagasy 
stakeholders  on  17  September.  The  great  political 
Malagasy  family  is  now  determined  to  move  forward 
and  to  work  together  in  the  overall  interest  of  the 
nation  for  the  well-being,  peace  and  serenity  of  the 
entire people. 

An  extremely  important  threshold  has  just  been 
crossed, but there is still much work to be done. Now, 
we must focus primarily on the implementation of the 
provisions  of  the  road  map,  with  full  respect  for  the 
people’s  primary  aspirations, 
the 
holding of free, credible, fair and transparent elections. 
That,  in  my  opinion,  is  the  only  definitive  solution  to 
the crisis ensuring a return to constitutional normality.  

We  have  finally  managed  to  reach  a  consensus 
agreement,  reflected  in  the  sense  of  compromise  of 
which  we  are  particularly  proud,  based  as  it  is  in  the 
inherent  culture  of  Fihavanana  —  a  notion  of  social 
life  that  has  guided  the  Malagasy  people  since  the 
dawn  of  time  and  that  can  be  boiled  down  to  the 
principles  of  fraternity,  solidarity,  mutual  respect, 
tolerance and wisdom. We have thereby expressed our 
resolve  to  move  forward  towards  the  reconstruction 
and development of our society. 
For my part, I will spare no effort and will do my 

utmost 
the 
anticipated  results  and  are  rapidly  crowned  with 
success.  I  therefore  launch  a  solemn  appeal  to  the 
international community to make the needed individual 
and collective contribution to their implementation. In 
particular, I draw the attention of the United Nations to 
the  work 
in  assessing 
Madagascar’s  electoral  needs  so  that  an  electoral 
timeframe, drawn up in a credible, neutral, transparent 
and 
independent  way  and  based  on  respect  for 
fundamental  rights  and  international  standards,  can  be 
established as soon as possible. 

History teaches us that, even following the use of 
force, all wars and conflicts always end around a table. 
That clearly shows that mediation can be chosen as an 
alternative  to  weapons.  We  are  opposed  to  the  use  of 
any  form  of  repression  whatsoever.  It  is  entirely 
these  actions  achieve 
it  must  undertake 
to  ensure 
32 

11-51191 
A/66/PV.20


possible to resolve differences by peaceful means, as in 
the  case  for  Madagascar,  by  resorting  to  a  more 
effective method, such as dialogue. 

The  world  is  evolving.  The  world  is  changing, 
and  all  of  us  leaders  here  want  a  better  world  for  our 
respective peoples. Yes, it is possible, and we can do it.  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  High  Transitional  Authority  of  the 
Republic  of  Madagascar  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

Mr.  Andry  Nirina  Rajoelina,  President  of  the 
High  Transitional  Authority  of  the  Republic  of 
Madagascar,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
  The meeting rose at 7.05 p.m. 

11-51191 

33 
