
A/66/PV.14
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

14th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 22 September 2011, 9 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 





  The meeting was called to order at 9.35 a.m. 





High-level Meeting of the General Assembly to 
commemorate the tenth anniversary of the adoption 
of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action  
Agenda item 67 
Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, 
xenophobia and related intolerance 
  (b)  Comprehensive implementation of and follow-
up to the Durban Declaration and Programme 
of Action  
  Draft resolution (A/66/L.2) 

The  President  (spoke in Arabic):  I  declare  open 

the  High-level  Meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  to 
commemorate the tenth anniversary of the adoption of 
the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action. This 
meeting  is  being  held  in  accordance  with  General 
Assembly  resolutions  64/148  of  18  December  2009, 
65/240  of  24  December  2010  and  65/279  of  13  June 
2011,  and  under  sub-item  (b)  of  agenda  item  67, 
entitled  “Comprehensive 
implementation  of  and 
follow-up to the Durban Declaration and Programme of 
Action”.  

I warmly welcome all to this High-level Meeting. 
We  meet  here  today  to  reaffirm  that  we,  the  peoples 
and  nations  of  the  world,  make  up  one  family  rich  in 
diversity.  It  is  our  diversity  that  enriches  humankind 
and steers its progress. It is through the celebration of 
this  diversity  as  well  as  through  the  promotion  of 
tolerance and dispelling fears of the other, that we will 

build  a  more  peaceful  world,  a  world  based  on  the 
fundamental  principles  of  equality,  trust  and  mutual 
respect.  

I  should  like  to  thank  the  co-facilitators,  Her 
Excellency  Ms.  Isabelle  Picco,  Permanent  Representative 
of  Monaco  to  the  United  Nations,  and  His  Excellency 
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Cameroon to the United Nations, for having very ably 
led the preparations for this High-level Meeting. In that 
connection, I wish to express my gratitude to them for 
their excellent efforts. 

Today’s  meeting  is  an  opportunity  for  world 
leaders  to  speak  with  one  voice  on  one  of  the  most 
critical global challenges of the twenty-first century — 
the  continuing  scourge  of  racism  and  xenophobia 
worldwide. It is also an opportunity to recommit to the 
full  and  effective 
the  actions 
outlined in the Durban Declaration and Programme of 
Action,  adopted  by  consensus  in  2001.  Together  with 
the  outcome  document  of 
the  Durban  Review 
Conference, the Durban Declaration and Programme of 
Action  is  the  most  comprehensive  framework  for 
combating  racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia 
and  related  intolerance.  It  highlights  issues  faced  by 
victims of racial discrimination, particularly people of 
African  and  Asian  descent,  migrants,  refugees,  and 
specific vulnerable groups, such as indigenous peoples 
and  other  minorities.  It  also  emphasizes  that  we  must 
remember  the  crimes  or  wrongs  of  the  past,  wherever 
and  whenever  they  occurred.  We  must  unequivocally 
condemn these racist tragedies and tell the truth about 
history.  These  are  essential  elements  for  international 
implementation  of 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-50859 (E) 
*1150859* 




to 
the 
realization  of 
removing  obstacles 
A/66/PV.14 

reconciliation  and  the  creation  of  societies  based  on 
justice, equality and solidarity. 

Unfortunately,  despite  progress  made  since  the 
Durban  Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action  was 
adopted  in  2001,  instances  of  xenophobia,  racism  and 
intolerance  have  increased  in  severity  and  frequency. 
Racist  attitudes  and  hate  speech  can  be  found  in  many 
countries,  and  the  Internet  provides  a  new  vehicle  for 
their proliferation. While countries have come a long way 
in 
the 
fundamental principles of equality and non-discrimination, 
much more remains to be done on this score.  

I  wish  to  encourage  all  countries,  individually 
and  collectively,  to  intensify  their  efforts  to  reduce 
instances  of  racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia 
and related intolerance. It is the responsibility of States 
to  enact  the  necessary  legislative  measures  to  prevent 
the occurrence of discriminatory practices and to grant 
justice  to  the  victims.  Governments,  in  collaboration 
with  other  stakeholders,  including  civil  society  and 
business, should intensify awareness-raising initiatives 
and  enhance  education  in  order  to  combat  ignorance 
and effectively address the root causes of prejudice and 
negative stereotypes.  

This High-level Meeting is an opportunity for all 
of  us  to  reaffirm  our  collective  responsibility  for 
combating 
racism  and  promoting  equality  and 
non-discrimination.  It  is  also  an  opportunity  to  come 
together  in  unity  to  address  the  critical  challenges 
before us. I wish us all a successful meeting. 

Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon. 
in 

adopting  the  Durban  Declaration  and  Programme  of 
Action  against  racism,  the  international  community 
acknowledged that no country could claim to be free of 
discrimination and intolerance.  

Ten years later, that is still the case. Certainly we 
have  come  a  long  way.  We  have  seen  new  laws 
enacted;  new 
justice;  new 
initiatives  promoting  dialogue;  and  new  mindsets 
taking  hold.  We  are  better  prepared  to  prosecute  and 
protect  against  grave  crimes  such  as  genocide, 
apartheid, ethnic cleansing and contemporary forms of 
slavery.  Our  antennae  are  better  attuned  to  see  the 
insidious  forms  of  discrimination  —  the  subtle,  face-
to-face interactions and institutionalized prejudice that 
I now give the floor to the Secretary-General, His 
The  Secretary-General:  Ten  years,  ago 
institutions  pursuing 
for 
and 
I  welcome 
recommendations 
reject  discrimination 
this  year’s  observance  of 
can  be  every  bit  as  destructive  as  outright  aggressive 
behaviour.  

Yet  we  must  acknowledge  that  intolerance  has 
increased  in  many  parts  of  the  world  over  the  past 
decade.  The  resurgence  and  persistence  of  such 
inhumane  attitudes  and  detrimental  practices  indicate 
that  we  have  not  done  enough  to  stem  the  tide. 
Members  have  before  them  a  global  action  plan  that 
includes 
combating 
discrimination against Africans and persons of African 
descent,  Asians  and  persons  of  Asian  descent, 
indigenous peoples, migrants, refugees, minorities, the 
Roma, and others. Let us do more to embrace diversity 
and safeguard the dignity of these groups.  

the 
International  Year  for  People  of  African  Descent  and 
the  many  constructive  initiatives  it  has  generated.  Let 
us stand firmly against anti-Semitism. We must oppose 
Islamophobia 
against 
Christians.  Bias  based  on  religious  identity  has  no 
place  in  our  world.  Let  us  defend  the  rights  of  all, 
without  distinction  of  any  kind,  as  the  Universal 
Declaration  proclaims.  Neither 
race,  colour  nor 
language;  neither  political  nor  other  opinion;  neither 
property,  birth  nor  other  status  should  be  a  barrier  to 
the enjoyment of rights and freedoms. 

Let  us  also  stay  in  the  vanguard  against  bigotry 
and commit to fighting discrimination based on gender 
and sexual orientation. Victims of prejudice must be at 
the  centre  of  our  efforts,  as  the  theme  of  this  event 
rightly  indicates.  Our  battle  for  mutual  respect  and 
understanding is no feel-good exercise.  

indeed.  Ignorance  and 
intolerance  are  among  the  root  causes  of  conflicts. 
Racism  and  discrimination  are  major  obstacles  to 
development. All  too  often,  we  see  a  vicious  cycle  in 
which  discrimination  leads  to  deprivation  and  poverty 
deepens  discrimination.  A  marked  characteristic  of 
virtually  all  extremely  poor  communities  is  that  they 
lack  equal  access  to  State  institutions  and  services. 
Hard economic times such as these only exacerbate the 
situation.  Competition  for  jobs  and  other  difficulties 
often trigger hostility towards migrants and minorities. 
Governments  have  to  ensure  that  unemployment  and 
deteriorating  living  standards  do  not  provide  excuses 
for  attacks  on  vulnerable  groups.  We  must  resist 
polarizing  politicians  who  play  on  people’s  fears  and 
use stereotypes to gain electoral advantage. 
The  stakes  are  high 
2 

11-50859 
and 
hateful 
speech.  Our 
The President: I thank the Secretary-General for 



We  are  all  aware  that  the  original  Durban 
Conference  and  its  follow-up  two  years  ago  caused 
immense  controversy.  On  this  anniversary,  let  us 
restate some basic principles. This process is meant to 
further  the  world’s  essential  fight  against  racism.  We 
should  condemn  anyone  who  uses  this  platform  to 
subvert that effort with inflammatory rhetoric, baseless 
assertions 
common 
commitment  must be to focus on the real problems of 
racism and intolerance. Let us strive to ensure dignity, 
equality  and  justice  for  all.  Let  us  work  hand  in  hand 
with the civil society groups that are so central to this 
cause. Let us work in harmony to promote harmony. 

his statement. 

I  now  give  the  floor  to  Ms.  Navanethem  Pillay, 
United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights.  
Ms.  Pillay  (United  Nations  High  Commissioner 

for  Human  Rights):  Today  we  commemorate  the 
adoption  by  consensus,  in  September  2001,  of  the 
Durban  Declaration  and  Programme  of Action  against 
racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related 
intolerance. I salute the vast majority of Member States 
that  are  showing  their  support  for  this  important 
achievement,  intended  to  combat  racism  and  make  a 
difference  in  the  lives  of  so  many  victims  worldwide. 
The 
this  commemoration  has  been 
undoubtedly  challenging,  in  no  small  part  because  the 
issues are complex and sensitive. No country can claim 
to be free of racism, but we must be resolute in finding 
the courage to unite and move ahead together. 

The  Durban  Declaration  and  Programme  of 
Action,  together  with  the  outcome  document  of  the 
2009  Review  Conference,  provide  a  comprehensive 
framework to address the scourge of racism. Crucially, 
both  documents  place  victims  at  the  centre  of  our 
efforts 
discrimination, 
xenophobia  and  related  intolerance.  They  contain  a 
genuinely  universal  condemnation  of  racism  which 
acknowledges  the  injustices  of  the  past  and  forewarns 
against both resurgent manifestations and new forms of 
racism and intolerance.  
The Declaration lists a wide range of victims and 

grounds. Among  the  former,  it  speaks  of  the  plight  of 
minorities, such as the Roma, of people of African and 
Asian  descent,  of  migrants  and  indigenous  peoples. 
Among  the  latter,  it  includes  condemnation  of  stigma 
the  basis  of  HIV/AIDS, 
and  discrimination  on 
lead-up 
racism, 
against 
to 
racial 
A/66/PV.14
take 
should 
discrimination based on descent and the multiple forms 
of  discrimination  and  exclusion  faced  in  particular  by 
women.  In  sum,  the  document  encompasses  victims, 
sources,  causes  and  forms.  It  deals  with  racism  in 
media  and  new 
information  and  communication 
technologies,  trafficking,  migration,  conflict,  poverty 
and  internal  displacement.  It  covers  discrimination 
both  in  the  private  and  the  public  sphere.  It  considers 
legal assistance and the provision of effective remedies 
for victims and those affected by racism. 

Another  important  feature  of  the  Declaration  is 
that  it  not  only  reminds  Governments  of  their  core 
human  rights  obligations,  but  details  further  actions 
that  States 
in  collaboration  with 
parliaments,  national  institutions,  civil  society  and 
other  partners.  It  also  contemplates  strategies  of 
enhanced  international  cooperation  which  involve  the 
United Nations and other international mechanisms.  

The  Durban  Declaration  and  Programme  of 
Action  and  the  outcome  document  of  the  Durban 
Review Conference make clear that the anti-discrimination 
agenda concerns and belongs to all of us irrespective of 
our  race,  colour,  descent,  ethnic  or  national  origin, 
affiliation,  religion  or  belief.  Their  principles  are  the 
reliable foundations of our action, and they continue to 
provide  firm  guidance 
the  face  of  changing 
circumstances and new challenges. 

Although  10  years  ago,  the  Durban  Declaration 
and  Programme  of  Action  presciently  provided  a 
comprehensive  framework  to  address  contemporary 
challenges, today we must confront the regrettable gap 
between  the  commitments  made  at  that  time  and  the 
concrete  and  effective  action  actually  undertaken. 
Some  States  have  made 
in 
combating  racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia 
and  related  intolerance,  largely  through  the  enactment 
or  amendment  of  constitutional  protections  and 
domestic  legislation.  The  importance  of  solid  legal 
regimes  to  protect  rights  and  provide  avenues  for 
remedy and redress is indisputable.  

Yet, tangible progress cannot be attained without 
the political  will to implement and enforce such laws. 
Let  us  pledge  here  and  now  to  revitalize  our  efforts 
nationally,  regionally  and  globally  to  combat  the 
scourges  of  racism.  We  can  begin  by  showing 
leadership here today by underscoring that equality and 
non-discrimination  are  fundamental  principles  of  the 
international  community.  They  give  hope  to  victims. 
incremental  progress 
in 
11-50859 

3 
and 
a 
It 
that 
focus. 
long-term 
A/66/PV.14 

We must all commit to actions at all levels that address 
underlying and often structural causes of racism. 

The  road  to  a  world  free  from  racism  is  not  an 
easy  one.  Anti-discrimination  work  needs  careful 
planning 
requires 
commitment and persistence. In this respect, I wish to 
highlight  the  importance  of  developing  the  national 
action  plans 
the  Durban  Declaration  and 
Programme  of Action  envisage,  with  the  participation 
of  victims  and  affected  groups.  National  action  plans 
are proving to be an important tool to address racism at 
the  domestic  level.  My  Office  has  been  providing 
training  and  technical  assistance  in  this  area,  and  we 
stand ready to assist more States in this endeavour. We 
will  also  continue  to  serve  as  a  forum  for  dialogue, 
exchange  and  research  on  anti-discrimination  issues 
because  we  believe  that  informed,  credible  exchange 
and  dialogue  among  States,  United  Nations  experts, 
academics, parliaments, civil society and other partners 
on  these  issues  can  create  greater  understanding  and 
build trust. 

As  mandated  by  the  Human  Rights  Council  and 
the General Assembly, the Office of the United Nations 
High Commissioner for Human Rights will continue to 
support key mechanisms such as the Working Group of 
Experts  on  People  of  African  Descent, 
the 
Intergovernmental  Working  Group  on  the  Effective 
Implementation  of 
the  Durban  Declaration  and 
Programme  of  Action,  the  Special  Rapporteur  on 
contemporary  forms  of  racism,  racial  discrimination, 
xenophobia and related intolerance, and the Committee 
on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination. 

Finally, we are determined to continue enhancing 
anti-discrimination efforts across the United Nations. It 
will  be  important  to  ally  with  our  sister  agencies  to 
improve 
on 
anti-discrimination  issues  affecting  women,  children, 
indigenous  peoples,  migrants, 
trafficked  persons, 
people living with HIV/AIDS, and others. 

I  wish  to  conclude  by  noting  that  few  people  in 
the world today would openly deny that human beings 
are born with equal rights, as the Universal Declaration 
of  Human  Rights  proclaims. We  all  agree  that  far  too 
many people are still victimized because they belong to 
a  particular  group  —  whether  national,  ethnic,  or 
religious,  or  defined  by  gender  or  by  descent.  The 
Durban Declaration and Programme of Action, through 
the  perspective  of  victims,  provides  a  comprehensive 
coordination 
system-wide 
our 

to 
racism, 
combat 
framework within which to translate this sentiment and 
this recognition into action.  

Looking  ahead  there  is  much  more  work  to  be 
done 
racial  discrimination, 
xenophobia and related intolerance. I urge everyone to 
summon  the  political  will  to  unite  on  this  issue  of 
central importance in the lives of countless victims. So 
far,  we  have  done  too  little  too  slowly.  We  have 
allowed the global response to racism to be clouded by 
politics.  We  must  do  better.  The  victims  of  racism 
demand and expect this of us.  
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency Mr. Jacob Zuma, President of the Republic 
of South Africa. 
President  Zuma:  Ten  years  ago,  South  Africa 

had  the  honour  to  welcome  to  its  shores  States 
Members of the United Nations and people from across 
the  world  to  attend  the  World  Conference  against 
Racism,  Racial  Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and 
Related Intolerance. Just under a decade before that, it 
would have been inconceivable that a gathering of that 
nature,  discussing  racism,  would  have  taken  place  in 
South  Africa.  The  Conference  was  testimony  of  the 
success  of  humankind  against  the  scourge  and  demon 
of  racism  and  racial  discrimination.  It  was  also  a 
confirmation  of 
international 
community,  represented  by  the  United  Nations,  in  the 
struggle  against  the  evil  of  racism,  which  the  United 
Nations  boldly  and  correctly  declared  a  crime  against 
humanity. 
It was also symbolic that the Conference was held 

on  African  soil,  given  that,  in  the  preceding  two 
centuries,  the African  peoples  had  experienced  untold 
sufferings, brutality and inhumane treatment during the 
course  of  colonialism,  occupation  and  apartheid.  In 
Africa, the legacy of all these ills is still visible and is 
part  of  our  daily  efforts  to  improve  the  lives  of  our 
people. In Durban, the world spoke with one voice and 
reaffirmed its commitment to continue to fight against 
the scourge of racism and to do everything to eradicate 
it.  The  world  collectively  agreed  on  the  need  for  and 
the  significance  of  a  comprehensive  framework  to 
combat  racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia  and 
related intolerance. 

In  this  regard,  the  Durban  Declaration  and  its 
Programme  of Action  were  unanimously  adopted. The 
Durban Declaration and Programme of Action provided 
a  comprehensive  assessment  of  the  state  of  racism, 
the  success  of 
the 
4 

11-50859 
that 
it  did 
in  2001.  Racism  and 


racial  discrimination,  xenophobia  and  other  related 
intolerance  in  the  world  at  the  time,  and  offered  a 
collective set of actions to be undertaken to address the 
challenge.  South  Africa  appreciates  the  decision  the 
General Assembly has taken to mark the 10 years since 
the adoption of the Durban Declaration and Programme 
of Action.  

We note the progress made in the implementation 
of  the  Durban  Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action 
and  the  fight  against  racism.  However,  as  we  meet 
today, racism continues to pose a challenge in the same 
way 
racial 
discrimination continue to be a brutal attack on human 
dignity  and  an  affront  to  the  self-worth  of  individuals 
and  have  a  prolonged  and  negative  impact  on  their 
victims.  

We  continue  to  reaffirm  our  strong  conviction 
that racism and racial discrimination are a negation of 
the  United  Nations  Charter  and  its  principles.  The 
prevalence  of  racism,  xenophobia  and  other  related 
intolerance  would  therefore  be  an  indictment  of  the 
Organization itself and its Member States. In this tenth 
year, we must reflect with openness and honesty on the 
issues  that  continue  to  divide  us.  There  is  no  need  to 
have detractors on this question when we have all long 
agreed  that  racism  is  an  affront  to  humanity  and  a 
negation of the principles of the United Nations. 

We  urge  the  world  not  to  be  distracted  in  this 
noble  struggle  against  racism,  racial  discrimination, 
xenophobia  and  other  related  intolerance.  We  should 
continue with the same resolve and determination that 
led to the end of slavery, colonialism and apartheid. We 
welcome  some  of  the  initiatives  taken  to  redress.  We 
have since 2001 seen authorities make public apologies 
to victims of racism and racial discrimination in some 
countries. Cultural artefacts have been returned to their 
places  of  origin  in  some  instances,  and  in  some  cases 
reparation has been paid. However, there is still a lot of 
outstanding  work  that  must  be  done.  Therefore,  we 
support the initiative to erect a permanent memorial to 
honour  the  victims  of  slavery  and  the  transatlantic 
slave trade as being among the important interventions 
that are urgent and necessary. 
We  take  this  opportunity  to  reaffirm  the  Durban 

Declaration 
a 
comprehensive  United  Nations  framework  for  the 
eradication of racism. We call on all States Members of 
the United Nations and the world in general to reaffirm 
and  Programme  of  Action 
as 
A/66/PV.14
levels 
fully 
and 
effectively 
to 
effective 
look  forward 
implementation 
the  adoption  of 
our political  commitment  at the national, regional and 
international 
to 
implementing  the  Durban  Declaration  and  Programme 
of Action. We encourage all Member States to continue 
to  adopt  measures  at  the  national  level  to  fight  the 
scourge  of  racism  and  effectively  implement  the 
Durban Declaration and Programme of Action.  

In  conclusion,  racism  and  racial  discrimination 
continue to pose a challenge to humanity today, and we 
need a collective effort to rid the world of this scourge. 
We 
the  draft 
declaration  (A/66/L.2)  at  the  end  of  this  plenary 
meeting, renewing our political will to continue the full 
and 
of 
the  Durban 
Declaration and Programme of Action. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Rahamtallah  Mohammed  Osman, 
Under-Secretary  of  the  Ministry  of  Foreign Affairs  of 
the  Sudan,  who  will  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
African States. 
Mr. Osman (Sudan): It gives me great honour to 

address  this  High-level  Meeting  on  behalf  of  the 
African  Group  to  commemorate  the  tenth  anniversary 
of 
the  Durban 
Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action  at  the  2001 
World 
Racial 
Discrimination, Xenophobia and Related Intolerance in 
Durban, South Africa.  

The  Durban  Declaration  and  Programme  of 
Action  is  the  most  comprehensive,  action-oriented 
global 
racial 
discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related  intolerance. 
The Group welcomes the progress made at the national, 
regional and international levels in conformity with the 
obligations  and  commitments  of  Durban.  This  event 
undoubtedly  provides  a  timely  opportunity  to  assess 
the progress made in implementation of the outcome of 
the  Conference, 
the  obstacles  and 
challenges  encountered,  and  to  find  the  appropriate 
solutions they require. 
Today,  we  not  only  commemorate  Durban  but 

reaffirm  and 
firm  global  political 
commitment to the full and effective implementation of 
the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action and 
the  outcome  of  the  Durban  Review  Conference  in 
2009.  We  are  also  encouraged  by  those  Governments 
that, since the adoption of the Durban Declaration and 
Programme  of  Action,  have  adopted  landmark  and 
the  adoption  by  consensus  of 
renew  our 
Conference 
to 
identify 
framework 
to 
combat 
racism, 
Racism, 
against 
11-50859 

5 
the 
of 
these 
racial 
racism, 
racism, 
Despite 
scourge 
linguistic  minorities,  and 
A/66/PV.14 

progressive  legislative  and  administrative  measures 
effectively to combat racism and racial discrimination, 
to protect the rights of migrants and racial, national or 
ethnic  and 
to  combat 
incitement to hatred based on religion or belief. 

efforts  undertaken  by 
the 
international  community,  Governments  and 
local 
authorities, 
racial 
discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related  intolerance 
persists and continues to result in violations of human 
rights,  suffering,  disadvantage  and  violence.  We  are 
also  still  concerned  that  there  has  been  a  diminishing 
of  civil  liberties. We  are  alarmed  by  these  assaults  on 
human rights and the recurrence of violent incidents of 
racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related 
intolerance.  

We  also  note  the  decisive  steps  to  be  taken  by 
some  Member  States,  the  United  Nations  system  and 
the  international  community  at  large  to  oppose  the 
persistence 
discrimination, 
xenophobia  and  related  intolerance,  and  to  enhance 
dialogue with the aim of understanding and promoting 
tolerance  and  full  respect  for  cultural  and  ethnic 
diversity.  These  efforts  must  be  complemented  and 
strengthened  through  responsible  media  awareness 
campaigns  and  the  promotion  of  the  principles  of 
tolerance,  mutual  respect  and  understanding  through 
educational systems. 

tenth 
anniversary  commemoration  of  the  adoption  of  the 
Durban  Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action.  The 
African  Group  believes  that  this  commemoration  is  a 
unique  opportunity  to  rebuild  a  strong  international 
consensus  and  mark  the  renewal  of  international 
engagement  in  the  struggle  against  racism,  racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance.  
In  light  of  persistent  challenges,  we  should 

take 
translate  our  commitment 
appropriate  measures 
the  Durban 
to 
Declaration and Programme of Action and the outcome 
document  of  the  Durban  Review  Conference,  which 
constitute 
international 
framework in the fight against racism. Furthermore, it 
is  indispensable  to  address  with  greater  resolve  and 
political  will  all  forms  and  manifestations  of  racism, 
racial 
related 
intolerance in all spheres of life and in all parts of the 
world, including all those under foreign occupation. 
into  action  and 
implement 
The  African  Group  welcomes 
the  most  comprehensive 
discrimination, 
xenophobia 
and 
the 
of 

for 
that 
that 
further 
to  be 
against 
racism, 
impetus 
(A/66/L.2) 
is  pleased 
adopted  by 
The  African  Group 
The  Group  emphasizes 

this 
commemoration  is  well  attended  and  that  the  draft 
declaration 
all 
participating  States  at  this  High-level  Meeting  will 
express  the  will  of  the  international  community  to  be 
united 
racial 
discrimination, 
xenophobia and related intolerance. 

the  momentum 
gained by the tenth anniversary of the adoption of the 
Durban Declaration and Programme of Action and the 
follow-up  mechanisms,  particularly  within  the  United 
Nations system, will further strengthen the Declaration 
and  create 
the  accelerated 
implementation  by  States  and  other  actors  of  the 
laudable  objectives  encapsulated  therein.  The  Durban 
Declaration and Programme of Action adopts a victim-
oriented  approach  to  the  problems  of  racism,  racial 
discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related  intolerance. 
Specific  recommendations  are  formulated  to  combat 
discrimination against Africans and persons of African 
descent,  Asians  and  persons  of  Asian  descent, 
indigenous peoples, migrants, refugees, minorities, the 
Roma and other groups.  

The  Group  emphasizes  that  the  pledges  and 
commitments  made  must  be  effectively  implemented 
by all States, which retain primary responsibility in this 
respect.  It  reaffirms  that  the  International  Convention 
on  the  Elimination  of All  Forms  of  Racial  Discrimination 
and  the  Durban  Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action 
remain the basis and fundamental legal framework for the 
effective  elimination  of  racism,  racial  discrimination, 
xenophobia and related intolerance. 

The  Group  reiterates  that  slavery  and  the  slave 
trade,  including  the  transatlantic  slave  trade,  new  and 
emerging  forms  of  slavery  such  as  human  trafficking, 
apartheid  and  colonialism,  must  never  be  forgotten, 
and  in  this  regard  welcomes  actions  undertaken  at  the 
premises of the United Nations in New York to honour 
the memory of victims through the establishment of the 
memorial commemorating the 200-year anniversary of 
the  abolition  of  the  transatlantic  slave  trade  and 
slavery.  

Furthermore,  the  Group  recalls  the  adoption  of 
the resolution entitled “United Nations  Global Plan of 
Action  to  Combat  Trafficking  in  Persons”  (resolution 
64/293) and urges its implementation. 
For the African Group this event will provide an 

opportunity  for  heads  of  State  and  Government  to 
6 

11-50859 
the  end  of 
to  commend 
I  wish  also 


mobilize  political  will.  It  would  like  to  see  the  tenth 
anniversary  celebrated  in  a  fitting  manner  during  the 
round-table  discussion,  the  culmination  of  which  will 
be  the  adoption  of  an  outcome  that  encapsulates  the 
global  resolve  to  end  racism  and  place  victims  at  the 
centre of our deliberations. 

Before  I  conclude,  I  should  like  to  state  that  the 
African  Group  supports  the  proposal  made  by  His 
Excellency  the  President  of  South Africa  to  adopt  the 
draft  declaration  (A/66/L.2)  at 
this 
morning’s meeting. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Raden  Mohammad  Marty  Muliana 
Natalegawa, Minister for Foreign Affairs of Indonesia, 
who will speak on behalf of the Asia-Pacific States. 
Mr.  Natalegawa  (Indonesia):  On  behalf  of  the 

Asia-Pacific  Group,  allow  me  to  begin  by  congratulating 
you, Mr. President, on your election to chair this High-
level  Meeting. 
the 
co-facilitators  and  the  experts  who  have  deliberated 
over  and  negotiated  the  scope,  modalities,  format  and 
organization of this High-level Meeting, as well as the 
draft  political  declaration  (A/66/L.2)  that  will  be  the 
outcome product of this event. I am confident that the 
text that we  will adopt has been drafted in a balanced 
manner  to  reflect  our  many  common  concerns  in  the 
areas of  racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and 
related intolerance. 

Today  we  convene  in  this  Hall  of  the  United 
Nations  to  commemorate  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the 
Durban  Declaration  and  Programme  of Action.  It  was 
10  years  ago  that  we  gathered  in  South Africa  at  the 
historic  World  Conference  against  Racism,  Racial 
Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and  Related  Intolerance, 
not  merely  as  Governments  but  as  the  peoples  of  the 
world. The  call  we  made  from  that World  Conference 
to  the  peoples  of  the  world  was  that  we  must  fight 
against these prejudices with the greatest determination 
and perseverance because they are a sad blight on our 
common humanity.  

The message  from the World Conference against 
Racism  was  crystal  clear.  The  struggle  against  racism 
is  a  struggle  for  human  rights,  dignity  and  the 
eradication  of  poverty.  The  fact  that  we  adopted  a 
Declaration  and  a  Programme  of  Action  underscored 
the truth that if we have the political will to succeed we 
can  find  consensus  on  all  issues.  As  a  follow-up,  in 
2009  we  met  again  at  the  Durban  Review  Conference 
A/66/PV.14
racism, 
since  new 
in  Geneva  to  take  stock  of  the  implementation  of  the 
Durban  Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action  and  to 
see how far we had gone in the battle against racism in 
all  its  manifestations.  Collectively  we  resolved  to 
reinvigorate  the  political  commitment  of  Member 
States  to  pursue  the  anti-racism  agenda  in  the  face  of 
emerging  challenges  encapsulated  in  the  outcome 
document  of  the  Review  Conference  (A/CONF.211/8, 
chap. I). 

A  decade  has  passed  and  we  must  now  ask 
ourselves whether we have truly unified our efforts  to 
address  the  situation  of  the  victims  of  racism,  racial 
discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related  intolerance 
identified in the Durban Declaration and Programme of 
Action.  It  is  therefore  a  matter  of  great  concern  that 
despite  the  efforts  of  many  groups  and  many  nations, 
despite ample evidence of racism’s terrible toll, racism 
still  persists.  That  is  why  the  eyes  of  the  world, 
especially the eyes of victims, are again upon us today.  

We  speak  of  finding  a  new  unity,  as  the  times 
demand. There must therefore be a concerted effort by 
all  of  us,  particularly 
forms  and 
manifestations  of 
racial  discrimination, 
xenophobia and related intolerance continue to emerge. 
That  is  due  to  our  joint  realization  that  discrimination 
does  not  go  away  by  itself.  It  must  be  addressed 
seriously,  otherwise  it  can  become  a  cause  of  social 
unrest  and  violence.  We  must  therefore  resolve  to 
pursue our common goal of ensuring in all societies the 
effective  enjoyment  of  all  human 
rights  and 
fundamental freedoms for all, including the victims of 
racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related 
intolerance. 

History  is  replete  with  terrible  wrongs  inflicted 
through  lack  of  respect  for  the  equality  of  human 
beings.  This  is  manifested  in  colonialism  and  other 
wars  of  conquest,  slavery,  genocide,  apartheid,  ethnic 
cleansing  and  other  atrocities.  Despite  victory  over 
apartheid,  there  nevertheless  remains  a  plethora  of 
discriminatory  laws  and  practices  that  affect  the  lives 
of whole communities in many parts of the world. We 
share  the  view  that  slavery,  slave  trading,  colonialism 
and  apartheid  are  major  historical  sources  and 
manifestations  of  racism,  racial  discrimination  and 
related  intolerance.  These  past  practices  and  policies 
are  manifest 
form  of  poverty, 
underdevelopment,  marginalization  and  socio-economic 
exclusion,  which  have  deeply  affected  developing 
countries over the years.  
today 
in 
the 
11-50859 

7 
It 

racism, 
that  with 
levels  effectively 
to 
implement 
is  our  profound  belief 
A/66/PV.14 


the 
mobilization  of  political  will  at  national,  regional  and 
international 
the 
Durban Declaration and Programme of Action, as well 
as  the  outcome  documents  of  the  Durban  Review 
Conference  by  our  Governments  in  concert  with  all 
stakeholders,  inter  alia  civil  society  and  the  private 
sector,  will  we  be  able  truly  to  combat  and  curb  the 
scourge  of  racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia 
and related intolerance in all spheres of life and in all 
parts  of  the  world,  including  all  those  under  foreign 
occupation. 

In  conclusion,  we  proclaim  our  commitment  and 
strong determination to make the fight against all forms 
racial  discrimination, 
and  manifestations  of 
xenophobia and related intolerance, and the protection 
of the victims thereof, a high priority for our respective 
countries. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 

Representative  of  Romania,  who  will  speak  on  behalf 
of the Eastern European States. 
Mrs. Miculescu (Romania): I have the honour to 

speak  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  Eastern  European 
States.  

The  Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action 
adopted  10  years  ago,  which  we  are  now  here  to 
commemorate,  highlight 
the 
international  community  to  focus  its  political  will  on 
the  global  fight  against 
the  scourge  of  racism, 
xenophobia  and  intolerance.  They  also  showed  that 
countries  can  go  beyond  inherent  political  grievances 
and unite around a common goal, namely, to put an end 
to the phenomenon of racism.  

We  can  acknowledge  that  no  modern  society, 
irrespective  of 
and 
civilizational  specificities  or  level  of  development,  is 
free from the complex manifestations of racism, racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and 
hatred.  No  country  has  a  perfect  record,  no  society  is 
beyond criticism. Therefore, our pledged commitments 
in  the  fight  against  racism  can  be  successful  only 
through  concerted  action  taken  at  all  levels  —  local, 
national  regional  and 
that  end, 
although some States in our Group are not participating 
in 
the  Eastern 
European  Group 
stern  and  determined 
supporters  of  the  global  fight  against  racism,  racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, and 
today’s  meeting,  all  countries 
the  commitment  of 
its  geographical, 
cultural 
international.  To 
remain 
in 
8 

are  committed  to  continue  to  take  measures  to  further 
secure, at all levels in our societies, the utmost respect 
for  all  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  and  for  the 
principle of universal equality. 

Much  has  been  achieved  in  10  years,  yet  much 
remains  to  be  done.  All  of  us  in  our  countries  at  all 
levels  and  in  our  respective  societies,  collectively and 
individually,  must  make  sure 
that  our  political 
commitments  are  translated  into  actions.  Action  is 
needed now since, in spite of all our rhetoric and good 
intentions,  many  regrettably  continue  to  be  victims  of 
racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related 
intolerance. All of  us should therefore  stay  committed 
and  alert  in  addressing  and  pre-empting  all  acts  of 
incitement  to  violence,  hatred  and  segregation.  We 
have the means, we just need to seize the momentum. 
All  our  efforts  aimed  at  combating  racism, 

xenophobia,  discrimination,  extremism  and 
their 
diverse  manifestations  must  be  guided  by  the  full 
respect  for  all  fundamental  rights  and  freedoms  in 
accordance  with  our  obligations  under  international 
human  rights  law.  In  that  regard,  universal  accession 
and ratification of the International Convention on the 
Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination and 
the full implementation of its provisions are necessary 
in order to ensure the effectiveness of the fight against 
racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related 
intolerance. However, we can only note with regret that 
we  are  still  lagging  behind  not  only  in  its  universal 
ratification but also in its full observance. 

While we acknowledge the prime role of national 
Governments  in  the  fight  against  racism  and  the 
implementation  of  the  Convention,  we  must  also  note 
the  key  role  that  the  United  Nations  system  plays  in 
our  fight.  We  highlight  the  constant  efforts  of  the 
Human  Rights  Council, 
the 
Elimination  of  Racial  Discrimination,  the  Special 
Rapporteur  on  contemporary  forms  of  racism,  and  of 
the  relevant  regional  organizations  in  the  field  of 
combating  racism  and  racial  discrimination.  We  must 
also continue positively to engage civil society and the 
media  in  complementing  our  concerted  efforts  in  this 
fight.  Their  contribution  is  essential  since  they  work 
alongside  Governments  in  providing  assistance  to 
victims  of  discrimination  and  contribute,  inter  alia,  to 
awareness-raising campaigns and research.  

We  have  come  a  long  way  since  the  adoption  of 
the  Declaration  adopted  in  Durban  10  years  ago,  but 
the  Committee  on 
11-50859 
this  High-level  Meeting 


we still face many challenges and obstacles on the road 
towards  a  world  free  of  racism.  However,  we  are 
confident that everything can be overcome in the light 
of  reason. As Abraham  Heschel,  a  great  thinker  from 
our  part  of  the  world,  once  said,  “racism  is  man’s 
gravest  threat  to  man  —  the  maximum  hatred  for  a 
minimum of reason”. 

In  conclusion,  let  me  reiterate  that  the  countries 
in our Group will stay committed and actively engaged 
in  the  complex  fight  against  racism,  intolerance  and 
discrimination. In doing so, we will stay united in our 
determination to prevent these acts in the future. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  The 

Honourable  Mr.  Kenneth  Baugh,  Deputy  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  of  Foreign Affairs  and  Foreign 
Trade  of  Jamaica,  who  will  speak  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of Latin American and Caribbean States. 
Mr. Baugh (Jamaica): I have the honour to speak 

on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  States  at 
to 
commemorate the tenth anniversary of the adoption of 
the  Durban  Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action 
under 
racial 
discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related  intolerance: 
recognition, justice and development”.  

international 
community  courageously  took  a  stand  to  eliminate 
from  our  world 
racial 
discrimination,  xenophobia  and  other 
intolerance. 
Today we take stock of the strides taken over the years 
to  achieve  the  goals  and  objectives  set  forth  in  the 
Durban Declaration and Programme of Action. We are 
equally mindful that, notwithstanding our efforts, much 
more needs to be done if we are fully to realize those 
goals and objectives. 
the 

intergovernmental 
the 
Working  Group  of  Experts  on  People  of  African 
Descent  and  the  Special  Rapporteur  on  contemporary 
forms  of  racism  and  the  Independent  Expert  on 
minority  issues.  We  are  conscious  that  many  of  our 
Governments,  at  the  national  level,  have  sought  to 
protect  the  diverse  and  multicultural  nature  of  their 
societies.  Some  States  have  created  specialized 
national  mechanisms 
racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance, and 
to promote equality, justice and dignity, while in others 
legislation,  as  well  as  national  plans  and  policies, 
at 
the  creation  of 
the  progress 
level  with 
the  scourge  of 
Ten  years  ago 
in  Durban, 
the 
to  combat 
racism, 
“Victims  of 
racism, 
the 
theme 
racism, 
We  note 
achieved 
A/66/PV.14
including  affirmative  action  measures,  have  been 
adopted that will ensure that minorities and vulnerable 
groups can be fully integrated into society. We reiterate 
our  commitment  to  enhance  the  work  and  functioning 
of  national  mechanisms  to  combat  racism,  racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance.  

However, despite the progress made in combating 
racism,  the  effective  implementation  of  the  Durban 
Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action  has  not  been 
satisfactory. We  acknowledge  that  the  Durban  process 
is a work in progress, which will require the combined 
effort of every member of the international community 
if  we  are  to  eliminate  these  atrocities  from  our  midst. 
To that end, we hope that this meeting will serve as a 
catalyst  for  united  action  in  formulating  concrete 
strategies  to  achieve  our  objective  to  recognize  the 
victims  of  racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia 
and  related  intolerance,  and  to  provide  them  with 
justice, dignity and a fair chance for realizing their full 
potential, as well as raising racism as a global concern. 

Member  States  from  the  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  region  have  been  supportive  of,  and  have 
actively participated in, the work to promote the goals 
and  objectives  of 
the  Durban  Declaration  and 
Programme  of  Action.  We  reaffirm  our  unwavering 
commitment  to  achieving  a  world  free  of  racial 
intolerance  and  other  injustices.  We  must  be  mindful 
that  victims  in  many  parts  of  the  world  continue  to 
suffer from violence on the basis of their ethnic origin 
or  religious  affiliation.  Migrants  and  migrant  workers 
are  still  easy  targets  for  manifestations  of  racism  and 
xenophobia and racial discrimination.  

We therefore call upon Member States to develop 
policies  and  programmes  to  protect  the  rights  of 
migrants  and  migrant  workers. 
regard, 
indigenous  peoples  and  persons  with  disabilities  also 
suffer grave forms of racial discrimination and related 
intolerance  and  require  specific  measures  to  promote 
their participation in society and the full realization of 
their human rights.  

Negative  stereotyping  of  persons  based  on  their 
religion  or  belief,  and  an  increase  in  incidents  related 
to  religious  hatred,  are  still  factors  that  must  be 
addressed, both at the national and international levels. 
The  proliferation  of  hate  speech  also  remains  a 
challenge  in  many  parts  of  the  world,  exacerbated  by 
the misuse of new technologies for mass dissemination 
of  negative  and/or  stereotypical  information.  It  is 
that 
In 
11-50859 

9 

legislative 
including 
to  eliminate  acts  of 
A/66/PV.14 

therefore  necessary  for  all  Member  States  to  promote 
greater levels of social inclusion, which is essential in 
order  to  reduce  racial  discrimination  and  related 
intolerance.  

The  Member  States  of  the  Group  of  Latin 
American and Caribbean States remain convinced that 
intercultural dialogue, tolerance, education and respect 
for diversity are useful approaches for the international 
community  to  embark  on  a  common  and  consensual 
global programme of action to combat these scourges. 
It  is  also  necessary  to  address  the  root  causes  and  to 
take  a  broad  range  of  preventive  and  corrective 
action  where 
measures, 
appropriate, 
racism, 
racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance.  

Today’s commemoration of the tenth anniversary 
of  the  Durban  Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action 
presents  another  opportunity  to  mobilize  political  will 
for  global  resolve  to  end  racism  and  place  victims  at 
the  centre  of  our  deliberations.  In  that  context,  the 
Group emphasizes that renewed emphasis and adequate 
funding  for  the  follow-up  mechanisms,  as  well  as 
sustained  international  cooperation,  are  indispensable 
to  addressing  all  forms  and  manifestations  of  racism, 
racial 
related 
intolerance. 

We  are  pleased  with  the  decision  taken  by  the 
General  Assembly  to  erect  a  permanent  memorial  to 
honour the victims of slavery and the transatlantic slave 
trade.  We  encourage  Member  States,  non-governmental 
organizations, the private sector and private individuals 
to  support  this  and  other  initiatives  that  will  serve  to 
enhance the visibility of the message of the Declaration 
and  Programme  of Action.  This  year,  as  we  celebrate 
the  International  Year  for  People  of  African  Descent, 
the memorial takes on added significance, showcasing 
our  determination  to  ensure  that  this  historical  wrong 
and its associated residual effects of racism and racial 
discrimination will never again be repeated. 

In conclusion, the Member States of the Group of 
Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States  reaffirm  the 
Durban Declaration and Programme of Action and the 
outcome (A/CONF.211/8, chap. I) of the 2009 Durban 
Review  Conference,  as  well  as  our  commitment  to  its 
full  and  effective  implementation.  We  are  convinced 
that the Durban process, if given the necessary support 
of  all  Member  States,  can  result  in  the  eradication  of 
all  forms  of  racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia 
discrimination, 
xenophobia 
and 
to 
related 
thus 
intolerance, 
the  adoption  of 
intolerance  undermine 
and 
allowing  people 
everywhere  to  experience  the  full  enjoyment  of  their 
fundamental  human  rights  and  freedoms.  We  look 
forward 
the  draft  political 
declaration  (A/66/L.2)  at  the  end  of  this  morning’s 
meeting. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  the 

representative of Monaco, who will speak on behalf of 
the Group of Western European and Other States. 
Ms.  Picco  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Group of Western European and Other States, on behalf 
of which I have the honour to speak, has acknowledged 
that  racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia  and 
related 
the  purposes  and 
principles of the United Nations Charter. By belonging 
to  the  human  family,  we  are  born  free  and  equal  in 
dignity and rights and should act towards each another 
in  a  spirit  of 
fellowship  without  making  any 
distinction.  

In building on the progress already made, it is our 
common  responsibility  to  promote  the  fight  against 
racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related 
intolerance  —  scourges  that  persist  in  all  of  our 
countries  and 
foundations  of  our 
democratic  societies,  namely,  the  rule  of  law  and 
respect for human rights. 
While a number of countries of our Group are not 

participating  in  today’s  event,  and  in  spite  of  the  fact 
that some States do not participate in this process, we 
all  renew  our  unwavering  commitment  to  pursue  at 
international, 
the 
implementation  of  effective  measures  to  fight  these 
scourges,  to  end  impunity  and  to  mainstream  the 
promotion  of  equality  and  equal  opportunities  into  all 
Government policies.  

The  Western  European  and  Other  States  Group 
reaffirms  its  solidarity  with  the  numerous  victims  of 
racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related 
intolerance  who  continue  to  be  flouted  and  trampled 
upon  throughout  the  world.  Each  victim  must  be 
recognized and receive the same attention. 

Whatever 
cause, 
or 
manifestation, 
racial  discrimination 
undermine  human  dignity  and  must  be  combated  in 
order 
the  denial  of  human  rights  and 
fundamental freedoms of the human person. We attach 
the  utmost  importance  to  education,  training  and 
and  national 
source, 
and 
to  avoid 
threaten 
the 
the 
racism 
regional 
levels 
form 
10 

11-50859 
racism, 
combat 
eradicate 


prevention, as they allow for a better understanding of 
the  phenomena  to  be  fought  and  to  promote  the 
richness  of  our  differences  and  respect  for  our 
diversity.  

We  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  our  call  for 
the  universal  ratification  and  full  and  effective 
implementation of the International Convention on the 
Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, an 
instrument  to  which  all  of  the  members  of  our  Group 
are  parties  as  well  as  the  main  legal  instrument  to 
prevent, 
racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance. 
The President: I now give the floor to Ms. Sarah 

White,  Board  President  of  the  Mississippi  Workers’ 
Center for Human Rights. 
Ms.  White  (Mississippi  Workers’  Center  for 

Human  Rights):  On  behalf  of  the  countless  victims  of 
racial  discrimination  throughout  the  world,  it  is  an 
honour to carry these voices here today. I bring to the 
Assembly  greetings  from  the  Mississippi  Workers’ 
Center  for  Human  Rights,  where  I  serve  as  the 
President of the Board of Directors.  

The  Center  was  founded  by  long-time  human 
rights  activist  Ms.  Jaribu  Hill  in  1996.  Located  in  the 
Mississippi delta, the Center fights for the dignity and 
human  rights  of  low-wage  African-American  workers 
and all those who languish in extreme poverty.  

But  I  am  here  today  as  the  voice  of  those  who 
have been excluded, marginalized, violated and denied 
their  basic  human  rights. When  I  sat  on  the Voices  of 
Victims  panel  at  the  World  Conference  in  Durban  in 
2001 and then again at the Durban Review Conference 
in  2009,  I  spoke  about  the  history  of  the  struggles  of 
Mississippi  catfish  workers  and  the  battles  we  faced 
every  day  for  human  rights  and  justice.  I  described 
how  we  as  black  women  had  to  stand  on  our  feet  for 
12 hours  a  day  in  ankle-deep  water  that  contained 
chlorine 
chemicals.  That 
contaminated  water  caused  severe  skin  rashes  and 
other 
ailments.  White  male 
supervisors would force us to speed up our work on the 
assembly 
the  company  could  make 
maximum  profit.  The  bosses  did  not  care  about  the 
health  and  well-being  of  the  workers.  Supervisors 
would  terrorize  us,  making  threats:  “Speed  up  or  lose 
your job”. We were sexually and racially harassed on a 
daily  basis.  We  were  denied  bathroom  privileges. 
that  workers 
Those  are  some  of 
the  conditions 
physical 
line  so 
harmful 
that 
and 
and 
other 
serious 
A/66/PV.14
the  struggle.  There 
to  fight  against  racial 
encounter  every  day  today  in  the  catfish  and  poultry 
plants. These indignities are suffered by us as workers 
because of our skin colour and economic class. 

I am here today to let everyone know that we rose 
up and fought to get justice and human rights. We held 
labour  strikes  and  won  battles  and  began  a  workers’ 
rights  movement  all  over  the  state.  Plants  began  to 
organize. Although we won many battles, we still must 
continue 
is  racial  profanity, 
intimidation  and  harassment  on  a  daily  basis.  Even 
today, extrajudicial killings still take place. Workplaces 
are  still  racially  segregated.  Black  workers  are  still 
assigned  to  the  dirtiest  and  most  dangerous  jobs  and 
forced to work in conditions that look a lot like slavery. 
People are still dying to make a living.  

The Center started 15 years ago by assisting low-
wage  African-American  workers,  but  we  help  all 
workers.  We  give  workers  a  platform  to  organize 
themselves 
injustices.  We 
educate  them  about  their  rights  and  about  laws.  We 
also work on housing and other community issues. We 
work  through  a  network  of  lawyers,  organization 
educators,  teachers,  women’s  groups,  social  workers 
and  everyday  people  who  are  dedicated  to  protecting 
human  rights.  Students  from  all  across  the  United 
States and throughout the world come to the Center as 
interns and help us to work on cases, educate workers, 
put  out  flyers  in  the  community,  work  with  prisoners 
and people just released from prison to make sure their 
rights are not violated when it comes to jobs. They help 
us  to  do  all  the  groundwork  in  home  work  and 
community outreach.  
All kinds of people come to help: rich and poor, 

white 
different 
backgrounds  and  different  religions.  The  Center  is  a 
space  for  the  community  to  come  together  to  educate 
workers.  Most  importantly,  we  work  with  youth  to 
fight  injustices  and  prevent  discrimination  in  the 
future.  We  hold 
to  discuss 
educational  issues  in  the  community,  such  as  the  fact 
that  there  are  not  enough  schoolbooks.  We  work  very 
hard with little. Funding is a big concern for us. 

The  World  Conference  against  Racism  and  the 
Durban Review Conference are experiences that I will 
never  forget.  I  saw  that  the  work  we  do  is  very  much 
the  kind  of  work  that  every  civil  society  group  does 
throughout  the  world.  I  know  that  people  are  going 
through the exact same thing, only in a different place. 
town  hall  meetings 
indigenous, 
black, 
from 
and 
11-50859 

11 
A/66/PV.14 

I  remember  meeting  so  many  amazing  people  in 
Durban,  South  Africa.  I  saw  people  from  throughout 
the  world  standing  up  for  their  rights.  I  met  other 
victims  of  racial  discrimination. Their  courage  was  so 
powerful.  I  keep  in  touch  with  many  of  them  and  we 
help each other out still today.  

The  Conference  gave  me  hope  that  I  could  go 
back and continue to fight in my community. I think I 
have done that. I really want us to come together on the 
same  front  to  make  sure  that  Governments  have  open 
ears  to  these  issues  that  affect  us  as  human  beings. 
Politicians must be held accountable for what they do. 
After  we  elect  them,  we  must  make  sure  that  they 
remember  the  needs  of  the  victims  and  protect  our 
rights.  

Most  countries  have  not  advanced  very  far  from 
where they were 10 years ago in Durban. There is still 
massive 
problems  with 
discrimination  in  the  education  and  prison  systems. 
There are still problems with health care and workers’ 
rights.  Today  is  a  chance  for  Governments  to  come 
together and rise up against racism. I hope that they do 
not  waste  this  chance.  The  Durban  Declaration  and 
Programme  of  Action  are  important  in  helping  give 
people  hope  and  opportunity.  This  fight  is  about  our 
struggle  —  the  struggle  of  people  of African  descent, 
people  of  Asian  descent,  indigenous  people,  women, 
children,  minorities  —  and  our  strength  comes  from 
organizing  and  bringing  our  voices  together  on  one 
platform 
the  Durban  Declaration  and 
Programme of Action work. 

inscribed on my list. 
The  President:  We  have  heard  the  last  speaker 
unemployment 
to  make 
and 

this  morning 

As members will recall, the Assembly decided in 
its  resolution  65/279  that  the  High-level  Meeting 
would  adopt  the  draft  political  declaration  (A/66/L.2) 
at  the  closing  plenary  meeting.  Members  will  also 
recall  that  the  President  of  the  Republic  of  South 
Africa  and  the  Under-Secretary  of  the  Ministry  of 
Foreign Affairs  of  the  Sudan,  who  spoke  on  behalf  of 
the  African  States,  proposed 
that 
consideration of and action on the political declaration 
should take place at this opening plenary meeting.  

May I take it that the Assembly decides to adopt 
the  draft  political  declaration  at  this  opening  plenary 
meeting? 
It was so decided. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The  General 

Assembly  will  now  take  action  on  draft  resolution 
A/66/L.2,  entitled  “United  against  racism,  racial 
discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related  intolerance”. 
May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  wishes  to 
adopt draft resolution A/66/L.2? 

Draft resolution A/66/L.2 was adopted (resolution 
66/3). 
The  President  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  On 
this 

occasion, I should like to express my sincere thanks to 
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe,  Permanent  Representative  of 
Cameroon,  and  Ms. 
Isabelle  Picco,  Permanent 
Representative  of  Monaco,  who  so  ably  and  patiently 
conducted the discussions and complex negotiations in 
the  informal  consultations  so  as  to  bring  them  to  a 
successful  conclusion.  I  am  sure  that  members  of  the 
General  Assembly  join  me  in  extending  to  them  our 
sincere appreciation.  

  The meeting rose at 11.05 a.m. 
12 

11-50859 
