
A/66/PV.9
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

9th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 20 September 2011, 5.45 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 






  The meeting was called to order at 6 p.m. 
High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the 
theme “Addressing desertification, land degradation 
and drought in the context of sustainable 
development and poverty eradication” 
Agenda item 19 (continued)
Sustainable development 
  (e)  Implementation of the United Nations 



Convention to Combat Desertification in Those 
Countries Experiencing Serious Drought and/or 
Desertification, Particularly in Africa 

jeopardized  unless  desertification, 
Statement by the President 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The  world’s 

leaders have been meeting for the first time in a high-
level  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  to  address 
desertification,  land  degradation  and  drought.  Leaders 
have  decided  that  the  three  pillars  of  development 
would  be 
land 
degradation and drought are addressed.  
Leaders  of  the  world  have  today  undertaken  an 

important, intensive debate on affected ecosystems and 
livelihoods  of  populations 
to  achieve 
sustainable  development  and  combat  poverty.  It  is  my 
honour 
today’s 
constructive discussions. I shall then take it over to the 
tenth session of the Conference of Parties to the United 
Nations  Convention  to  Combat  Desertification,  to  be 
held  next  month  in  Changwon,  Republic  of  Korea.  I 
shall also refer it to the United Nations Conference on 

the  highlights  of 
to  summarize 
in  order 
Sustainable  Development,  to  be  hosted  by  the  city  of 
Rio de Janeiro in 2012. 

Member  States  have  stressed  that  desertification 
and land degradation are some of the issues that affect 
various  ecosystems  in  different  ways. The  main  effect 
is  felt  by  the  poorest,  particularly  in  arid  lands  where 
more  than  one  third  of  the  world’s  people  live,  about 
1 billion  of  whom  have  achieved  the  lowest  measures 
of human development. 

In  this  context,  leaders  have  decided  that  if  arid 
lands  are  to  become  lands  of  common  prosperity,  the 
solution  lies  in  giving  soil  improvement  the  highest 
priority and guaranteeing technological and sustainable 
land  management  in  relevant  policies  and  practices. 
Leaders  stressed  the  need  to  protect  lands  through 
combat 
sustainable  management 
desertification, 
in 
addition  to  adapting  to  climate  change  in  a  way  that 
preserves  the  livelihoods  of  those  most  affected. 
Leaders  also  emphasized  the  need  for  the  United 
Nations  Convention 
to  Combat  Desertification 
to 
become an effective means to achieve food security. 

The  leaders  further  stressed  that  it  is  possible  to 
find sustainable solutions for overcoming the obstacles 
that  stand  in  the  way  of  attaining  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). They underlined the need 
to  work  on  the  following  priorities.  They  called  for 
strengthening the scientific base of knowledge in order 
to study desertification, drought and land degradation. 
Many leaders and one geographic group suggested the 
creation  of  a  consultative  group  devoted  to  studying 
desertification,  land  degradation  and  drought  that 
land  degradation  and  drought, 
order 
in 
to 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-50552 (E) 
*1150552* 



to 
that 
show 
related 
land  degradation 
the  very  source  of 
A/66/PV.9 

would  provide  consensual  consultative  opinions  and 
expertise on the scientific parameters of the issue. The 
creation  of  such  a  group  would  also  contribute  to 
assisting world leaders in making appropriate decisions 
on desertification, land degradation, combating drought 
and  breaking  the  link  between  desertification  and 
famine. 
Many  leaders  stressed  that  at  a  time  when 

indications 
in  all 
ecosystems is increasing, efforts must not be confined 
to addressing the phenomenon in Arab lands alone. The 
debate  showed  that  the  spread  of  this  phenomenon  to 
other  ecosystems  would  lead  to  many  and  varied 
challenges 
this 
phenomenon,  including  food  security,  poverty,  forced 
migration,  the  negative  effects  of  climate  change, 
deforestation, the loss of ecological diversity, political 
instability  and,  consequently, 
the  eruption  of 
conflicts. In addition, there would be failure to achieve 
the MDGs and sustainable development.  
An  appeal  was  made  to  promote  implementation 

of 
to  Combat 
the  United  Nations  Convention 
Desertification  as  a  world  framework  for  policies  and 
monitoring to deal with the challenges of soil and land 
degradation. 

Many leaders also stressed that the time has come 
to reach a world free from the problems and challenges 
of  land  degradation.  This  would  help  in  setting 
sustainable  development  goals  directly 
to 
measuring  land  degradation.  They  also  stressed  the 
need  for  improving  financing  for  the  strategy  to  deal 
with  land  degradation  and  the  eradication  of  poverty. 
And they stressed the need to combat land degradation 
as  a  high-return  investment,  as  the  cost  of  land 
degradation in the future would be much higher than if 
we were to take up such challenges forthwith. 
A  number  of  delegations  also  referred  to  the 

importance 
land 
management,  which  must  become  a  fundamental 
component in transformation towards a green economy 
within  the  framework  of  sustainable  development  and 
the eradication of poverty. 

As  we  look  forward  to  the  tenth  session  of  the 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Convention  to  Combat  Desertification,  world  leaders 
have  committed  themselves  to  immediate  measures  to 
ensure  that  the  future  of  humankind  does  not  fall 
hostage to our current disregard for the non-sustainable 
use of land. 
sustainable 
investing 
linked 
of 
in 
to 

and 
climate 
drought 
than  AIDS,  malaria  and 

Before  I  close  the  meeting,  I  should  like  to 
deliver  a  report  on  the  High-level  Meeting  on  the 
theme  “Addressing  desertification,  land  degradation 
and drought in the context of sustainable development 
and poverty eradication”.  

Members have just completed an intensive day of 
discussions  on  an  urgent  issue.  I  would  like  to  thank 
participants  for  their  constructive  and  substantive 
interactive debate, undertaken in a spirit of cooperation 
and  true  commitment  to  protecting  planet  Earth.  I 
would  also  like  to  express  my  gratitude  to  the 
co-facilitators of today’s round tables for their efforts.  

I  should  like  to  ask  participants  to  consider  an 
alarming  fact,  namely,  that  hunger  kills  more  people 
every  year 
tuberculosis 
combined. Much of the hunger in our world is caused 
by  interlinked  issues,  including  desertification,  land 
degradation, 
change. 
Desertification is therefore not only killing people, but 
killing our development and our future. 

As  is  so  often  the  case,  it  is  the  world’s  poorest 
populations  who  are  the  most  vulnerable,  as  we  are 
witnessing  in  the  current  famine  gripping  the  Horn  of 
Africa. Let me reiterate my call for urgent action by the 
General Assembly  to  protect  these  populations.  In  the 
face of such adversity, we must act on what we already 
know, that is, that prevention is the most effective way 
to cope with drought. 

Efforts  to  reduce  pressures  on  arid  land  and 
combat  desertification  need  to  go  hand  in  hand  with 
efforts to eradicate poverty, thereby contributing to the 
achievement of the Millennium Development Goals. 
We  must  also  support  every  effort  aimed  at 

strengthen  disaster-
disaster-risk  prevention  and 
management  capacities  at  all 
including 
information and early-warning systems. This year, with 
a number of important global conferences to be held on 
the  issue  of  sustainable  development,  we  have  an 
opportunity 
for 
desertification, land degradation and drought, not only 
as  an  environmental  concern  but  as  an 
integral 
component of sustainable development. 

I  urge  all  members  to  participate  actively  and  to 
ensure  a  successful  outcome  based  on  consensus.  We 
have  before  us  a  grave  and  growing 
to 
development  and  to  Earth’s  natural  resources.  It  is  up 
to  all  of  us  to  ensure  the  necessary  political  will  and 
international  solidarity  to  combat  desertification.  I 
count on members’ active and full support.  
a  higher  priority 
ensure 
levels, 
threat 
to 
2 

11-50552 


The High-level Meeting of the General Assembly 

on 
the 
theme  “Addressing  Desertification,  Land 
Degradation and Drought in the Context of Sustainable 
Development  and  Poverty  Eradication” 
is  now 
concluded. 
A/66/PV.9

The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage  of  its  consideration  of  sub-item  (e)  of  agenda 
item 19. 

  The meeting was adjourned at 6.10 p.m. 
11-50552 

3 
