
A/66/PV.16
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

16th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 22 September 2011, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 
different  regions  of  the  world  and  to  learn  about  their 
achievements  and  aspirations  —  and  also 
their 
concerns  and  fears.  It  is  an  opportunity  for  reflection 
on  how 
the  challenges  faced  by 
to  deal  with 
humankind — by all of us. 

I speak here on behalf of a country that over the 
past  two  decades  has  become  a  symbol  of  positive 
change — change that required courage and hard work. 
At  the  time  of  the  collapse  of  the  communist  system, 
Poland was a country with a devastated State economy 
and an impoverished society. It was a country uncertain 
of its borders and its place in Europe. Thanks to deep 
economic  and  political  transformations,  Poland  has 
become  a  country  that  enjoys  stable  democracy  and  a 
dynamic economy. It has become a country that makes 
an  important  contribution  to  international  relations  in 
Europe  and  to  security  and  stability  in  its  immediate 
environment and beyond.  

Since  2008,  in  the  course  of  the  financial  crisis, 
the  Polish  economy  has  maintained  a  positive  growth 
rate. It is the only country in the European Union to do 
so.  That  was  possible  thanks  to  the  work  and  the 
entrepreneurial spirit of the Polish people and thanks to 
successive  Governments’  courage  in  making  difficult 
decisions. 

In  its  foreign  policy,  Poland  is  building  good-
neighbourly relations with the countries of Central and 
Eastern Europe, strengthening the security and unity of 
Europe. A hallmark of Polish foreign policy remains its 
solidarity  with  nations  that  aspire  to  live  in  freedom 
based on democracy and respect for human rights. That 







  In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Zinsou 
(Benin), Vice-President, took the Chair.  
  The meeting was called to order at 3.30 p.m. 

to 
into 
Address by Mr. Bronisław Komorowski, President of 
the Republic of Poland 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the 
President of the Republic of Poland. 

Mr.  Bronisław  Komorowski,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Poland,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Bronisław Komorowski, President of the Republic 
of Poland, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
in  Polish; 

interpretation  provided  by  the  delegation):  At  the 
outset, I would like to cordially congratulate Mr. Nassir 
Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  of  the  State  of  Qatar  on  his 
election  to  the  post  of  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-sixth session. I assure him of our 
full support for his endeavours in that capacity. 
I am honoured to speak on behalf of my country 

at this session of the General Assembly and to be able 
to  address  in  this  historic  place  representatives  of  all 
the  countries  of  the  world.  Our  participation  at  this 
session is also an opportunity for dialogue, a chance to 
get  acquainted  with  the  problems  of  nations  from 

President  Komorowski
(spoke 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-50871 (E) 
*1150871* 




A/66/PV.16 

is  an  obligation  derived  from  our  national  experience, 
the  experience  of  the  non-violent  struggle  of  the 
Solidarity  trade  union,  which  paved  the  way  for 
democratic and economic transitions in the countries of 
the former communist bloc.  

We now stand ready to share our experience. That 
is our active and consistent approach in relation to the 
societies of Eastern Europe and, recently, in relation to 
the societies of Arab States, some of which have taken 
up  a  challenge  similar  to  ours  20  years  ago.  We  wish 
them luck, perseverance and courage, not only to fight 
for  change  but  also 
to  conduct  dialogue  and 
communicate  with  all  those  who  can  take  part  in  this 
process.  From  our  Polish  experience  we  know  that 
sometimes  the  inability  to  communicate  and  reach 
compromises and to overcome internal divisions — the 
inability  to  open  oneself  to  dialogue  with  those  who 
just recently were seen as enemies — hinders progress 
and  can  cause  the  failure  of  movements  initiating 
major, necessary changes. 

Today I speak on behalf of the country that holds 
the  presidency  of  the  Council  of  the  European  Union 
(EU).  The  Union  has  become  in  recent  decades  a 
laboratory  of  huge  positive  developments 
in 
international  life.  The  beginning  of  the  integration 
process,  with  the  creation  of  the  European  Coal  and 
Steel  Community  60  years  ago,  was  a  Copernican 
revolution  in  international  relations.  A  mechanism  to 
effectively  eliminate  war  between  countries 
that 
seemed  to  be  permanently  in  conflict  with  each  other 
was 
introduced.  Archenemies  have 
become irreplaceable friends. The number of countries 
that have opted for cooperation rather than conflict has 
been steadily growing.  

That  has  given  Europe  an  unprecedented  long 
period  of  peace  and  enabled  economic  and  social 
development  not  only  in  the  sphere  of  the  market  but 
also in the field of human rights and in equalizing the 
levels  of  development.  The  European  Union  provides 
its  members  with 
their 
development and provides assistance to less developed 
regions and social groups. That is possible thanks to a 
principle of solidarity that goes beyond State borders. 

The  European  Union  has  introduced  a  new 
quality  to  international  life  globally.  It  stabilizes  its 
neighbourhood  and  is  an  inspiration  and  a  role  model 
in  various  regions  of  the  world,  where  integration 
initiatives  derive  from  the  European  experience.  The 
successfully 
stimulates 
security, 
and 
arms 
the 
The 
reductions, 
European  Union  is  also  an  active  participant  in  the 
process  of  shaping  a  better  world  order  for  everyone. 
The  progress  that  the  world  has  experienced  after  the 
Cold  War  in  the  fields  of  human  rights,  international 
security 
environmental 
protection,  sustainable  development  and  many  other 
areas  is  for  the  most  part  due  to  the  initiatives  and 
involvement of the European Union — as Mr. Herman 
Van  Rompuy,  the  President  of  the  European  Council, 
said here earlier (see A/66/PV.15). 

I  am  convinced  that  not  only  will  Europe’s 
current  difficulties  —  at  the  moment  related  to  the 
financial standing of some of its member States — be 
overcome but that the EU will actually emerge stronger 
from the crisis. I am also convinced that the European 
social  model  and  the  model  of  EU  relations  with  the 
outside  world  will  remain  an  important  point  of 
reference for other regions of the world. Poland, which 
currently  holds  the  presidency  of  the  Council  of  the 
European  Union,  will  spare  no  effort  in  ensuring  that 
Europe remains committed to global affairs and can be 
counted  on,  as  always.  Europe’s  solidarity  with  the 
world and its openness will remain our priority. 

international 
community  are  considerable.  The  past  decade  in 
international  life  has  been  turbulent  and  difficult.  Its 
beginning  was  marked  by  the  tragic  terrorist  attacks 
here in New York, on 11 September 2001. The spectre 
of global terrorism has hung over the world, in the fear 
that terrorist organizations one day may make use of a 
weapon  of  mass  destruction.  Fortunately,  our  worst 
fears have not materialized and it has been possible to 
significantly reduce the terrorist threat. 
At  the  same  time,  the  atmosphere  of  the  war  on 

terror  has  been  a  hindrance 
trust, 
strengthening  international  stability  and  solving  other 
important problems. In the past decade we have had to 
deal  with  increasing  tensions  between  rich  and  poor, 
and  between  more  and  less  developed  countries  and 
regions  of  the  world. There  have  been  signs  of  cross-
cultural mistrust. Climate change negotiations, the new 
World  Trade  Organization  (WTO)  trade  round  and 
non-proliferation  discussions  are  stalled.  The  Middle 
East  peace  process  is  not  advancing.  In  addition  to 
those negative trends, the international community was 
hit by the financial crisis in September 2008. 

We  cannot  ignore  these  disturbing  phenomena 
and  signals.  Nonetheless,  there  is  good  reason  to  be 
to  fostering 
challenges 
facing 
2 

11-50871 
over 
protectionism 
and 
and 
the 
responsible 
the  financial 
for  development 
societies  prospects 


optimistic  and  to  believe  that  we  can  overcome 
difficulties and effectively face challenges. Hopes have 
been engendered by the economic growth that has been 
seen  in  many  countries  and  regions  that  were  once 
referred  to  as  underdeveloped  countries  or  the  third 
world.  Many  countries  have  been  able  to  seize  the 
opportunities made available by globalization and give 
their 
and 
prosperity.  The 
attitude  of  many 
Governments,  within  the  Group  of  20  and  beyond, 
prevented 
turbulence  of  2008  from 
escalating into an economic crisis similar to the Great 
Depression  of  1929.  Openness  and  interdependence 
prevailed 
economic 
nationalism.  President  Barack  Obama’s  initiatives  to 
reduce nuclear arms and ensure their non-proliferation 
should be viewed in a similar manner. 

The  Arab  Spring,  notwithstanding  the  dramatic 
events  surrounding  it,  is  yet  another  step  in  the 
transition  of  countries  in  various  regions  of  the  world 
towards  democracy 
empowerment  of 
individuals  and  societies  on  the  basis  of  respect  for 
their  aspirations  to  live  in  freedom  and  prosperity. 
These are aspirations to a life that is in harmony with 
values  and  standards  that  are  not  —  as  they  were 
considered to be until recently — exclusively Western. 
Everyone,  everywhere,  is  entitled  to  embrace  those 
values;  however,  it  is  necessary  to  respect  the  local 
aspects and dimensions of these aspirations and rights, 
which cannot be separated from their cultural context. 

to  solving  key  global  problems 
inevitably  leads  us  to  the  United  Nations  or  its 
specialized agencies. Not so long ago we faced the risk 
of  a  marginalizing  of  the  United  Nations,  or  even  the 
building  of  parallel  structures.  The  United  Nations, 
however,  remains  indispensable  in  its  role,  as  defined 
in the Charter and the main United Nations documents, 
especially those from the years 2000 and 2005. We in 
Poland combine optimism with realism, so we like the 
description  of  the  United  Nations  that  says  that  our 
Organization  was  not  created  to  take  mankind  to 
heaven, but to save humanity from hell. 

The Organization faces many tasks, whose aim is 
to  protect  the  international  community  against  crises 
and  a  decline  at  the  international  level.  The  United 
Nations  must  defend  the  already  achieved  level  of 
civilized relations among nations, a key factor of which 
is  the  move  away  from  violence  towards  the  self-
The  path 
A/66/PV.16
determination  of  nations,  democracy  and  material 
prosperity. 

I see the main tasks of the Organization as falling 
within  the  framework  adopted  in  the  2005  World 
Summit  Outcome  (resolution  60/1),  which  focused  on 
the triad of development, security and human rights. I 
am aware of the complexity and extent of the problems 
related to development, which encompass the issues of 
trade, 
finance,  economic  growth,  environmental 
protection  and  development  aid.  I  am  aware  of  the 
limitations of the United Nations in this area, where the 
main instruments are in the hands of private entities — 
corporations,  banks,  stock  exchanges  and  investment 
funds. The United Nations and its specialized agencies, 
the Bretton Woods institutions and others have proved 
in the past how useful they are in this area. 

Today our Organization must ensure the effective 
provision  of  aid  to  the  poorest  and  to  those  in  real 
need.  They  are  the  ones  that  are  hardest  hit  by  the 
crisis.  Our  responsibility  is  to  limit  the  scourge  of 
hunger in the world and help in combating pandemics 
and  in  providing  access  to  drinking  water.  Without 
ensuring  a  minimal  subsistence  level  for  people,  as 
well as health care and basic education, it is difficult to 
expect  the  poorest  and  those  in  real  need  to  begin  to 
fend for themselves. 

We  must  agree  on  a  new  paradigm  for  global 
economic trade. Global equilibrium requires that States 
with  a  high  surplus  of  exports  over  imports  begin  to 
switch  to  growth,  stimulated  by  internal  consumption. 
Incidentally, it was domestic demand that saved Poland 
from the economic crisis following 2008. If we fail to 
balance  the  relationship  between  these  two  groups  of 
economies — export- and import-oriented — there will 
be  more  turbulence  in  the  global  system.  Developing 
countries  must  increasingly  take  responsibility  for  the 
global  economy.  This  includes  responsibility  for  the 
least  developed  countries,  which  cannot  be  limited  to 
imports, as this prevents the development of their own 
manufacturing  and  export  potential.  United  Nations 
agencies  and  entities  not  related  to  the  Organization, 
such  as  the  WTO,  must  assist  in  the  evolution  of  this 
paradigm. 

The  issue  of  international  security,  in  both  its 
broader and narrower senses, requires a new approach. 
Here  I  shall  confine  myself  to  the  latter.  Poland  has  a 
strong  interest  in  progress  in  the  reduction  of  nuclear 
and  conventional  arms.  We  are  concerned  about  the 
11-50871 

3 

A/66/PV.16 

prospect of returning to the arms race, as well as by the 
increase  in  spending  on  armaments  on  a  global  scale. 
More  attention  should  be  paid  to  the  categories  of 
weapons that  today account for the most deaths. They 
cause conflicts, mainly internal, and they are the main 
factors of instability in various regions of the world. It 
is  from  that  perspective  that  we  should  reform  the 
United Nations Conference on Disarmament. We fully 
support the efforts of the Secretary-General to that end. 

Security  in  a  broad  sense  and  respect  for  human 
rights  and  the  various  forms  of  a  transition  towards 
democracy, that is, ultimately building a lasting peace, 
depends  on  the  ability  to  communicate,  to  negotiate 
and  to  compromise.  In  that  respect,  the  role  of  the 
United  Nations  is  irreplaceable.  The  United  Nations 
has  been,  is  and  must  remain  the  main  forum  and 
instrument  for  international  mediation.  We  in  Poland 
and  Europe  know  from  our  own  experience  the  value 
of  this  way  of  resolving  difficult  social  and  political 
problems.  The  Polish  round  table  of  1989  paved  the 
way  for  transformation  in  our  part  of  Europe.  I  am 
convinced  of  its  usefulness  in  the  process  of  the Arab 
Spring,  particularly  with  respect 
the  difficult 
situation that arose in Syria, a country of great Islamic 
culture  and  tradition.  We  are  ready  to  share  this 
experience with the societies that would like to do so. 
Mediation  is  an  irreplaceable  way  to  achieve  lasting 
and just peace.  

to  solving  very  difficult 
problems  in  the  relations  between  Israel  and  its 
neighbours, especially with the Palestinian Authority. I 
urge  the  United  Nations  and  the  Secretary-General  to 
actively  use  this  means  of  building  trust  and  peace 
between  peoples,  cultures  and  different  social  groups 
who  frequently,  and  for 
legitimate  reasons,  find 
themselves in a situation of conflict or even war. 

The spirit of solidarity must permeate the activity 
of  our  Organization,  which  aims  for  peace,  security, 
development  and  respect  for  human  rights.  Si  vis 
pacem  para  solidaritatem  (A/55/PV.17,  p.  32)  are 
words  expressed  here  in  2001  by  former  Auschwitz 
prisoner  and  Polish  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs 
Wladyslaw  Bartoszewski.  The  spirit  of  solidarity  has 
been  the  source  of  Polish  success  since  1989,  and 
continues  to  be  a  value  and  source  of  strength  for  the 
entire European Union. Nevertheless, it also continues 
to be needed on a global scale at this time of openness 
and interdependence between countries, economies and 
societies.  This  requires  an  awareness  of  the  unity  of 
This  also  applies 
to 
humankind  and  a  consciousness  of 
the  deep 
commonality  of  interests  among  the  members  of  the 
international  community.  The  failure  to  respect  this 
will mean failure to effectively take on the challenges 
the  international  community  faces.  In  that  regard,  I 
have only highlighted a few examples.  

Finally,  being  here,  I  cannot  resist  recalling  the 
important  words  of  my  great  compatriot,  Pope  John 
Paul II. Speaking in the Hall in October 1995, he said:  
“The  answer  to  the  fear  which  darkens  human 

existence at the end of the century is the common 
effort  to  build  a  civilization  of  love,  founded  on 
the  universal  values  of  peace,  solidarity,  justice 
and  liberty.  And  the  soul  of  the  civilization  of 
love  is  the  culture  of  freedom:  the  freedom  of 
individuals  and  the  freedom  of  nations,  lived  in 
self-giving 
responsibility.” 
(A/50/PV.20, p. 6) 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Poland  for  the  statement 
he has just made. 

Mr.  Bronisław  Komorowski,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Poland,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.  
solidarity 
and 


Address by Mr. Mwai Kibaki, President of the 
Republic of Kenya 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Kenya. 

Mr.  Mwai  Kibaki,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Kenya,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Mwai Kibaki, President of the Republic of Kenya, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly.  
President Kibaki: I take this opportunity to once 

again  congratulate  the  President  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth 
session.  I  am  confident 
long  years  of 
diplomatic  service  and  experience  will  be  crucial  in 
steering the work of this session to a complete success. 
Allow  me 
to  also  congratulate  His  Excellency 
that  his 
to 
4 

11-50871 
to 
address 


Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on his re-election to a 
second term. This demonstrates our collective trust and 
confidence in his leadership. 

The twenty-first century presents us with new and 
complex  security  challenges  arising,  among  other 
things,  from  a  range  of  political,  economic,  financial 
and environmental factors. This session of the General 
Assembly  offers  opportunities 
the 
challenges that we face collectively. Most significant is 
the  promotion  of  mediation  as  a  tool  for  conflict 
management  and  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes 
between and within States.  

In that context, the role of regional organizations 
in  the  mediation  and  resolution  of  conflicts  is  of 
increasing  importance.  On  the  African  continent,  the 
African Union (AU) and regional organizations such as 
the East African Community and the Intergovernmental 
Authority  on  Development  (IGAD)  continue  to  serve 
as  significant  building  blocks  in  the  search  for  global 
peace and security. As the Assembly is aware, IGAD is 
at the forefront of efforts to bring peace to Somalia and 
the Sudan. I am pleased that Kenya’s role in both cases 
has been, and remains, crucial. 

On 9 July, we witnessed the birth of a new nation, 
South  Sudan.  I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
congratulate and welcome the Republic of South Sudan 
to  the  community  of  nations.  The  independence  of 
South  Sudan  and  its  entry  into  the  United  Nations 
family  is  the  result  of  intense  negotiations  under 
IGAD,  safeguarded  by  the  AU  and  the  international 
community.  This 
the 
potential  of  regional  organizations  to  resolve  complex 
and  deep-rooted  conflicts.  I  would  like  to  reiterate 
Kenya’s  continued  commitment  to  engage  with  both 
the Sudan and South Sudan, through IGAD as well as 
bilaterally,  in  their  efforts  to  resolve  the  outstanding 
issues  under  the  just  concluded  Comprehensive  Peace 
Agreement. I am confident that the leadership of  both 
the  Sudan  and  South  Sudan  will  continue 
to 
demonstrate their commitment, courage and resolve in 
that effort. We will also maintain active support for the 
African Union High-level Implementation Panel on the 
Sudan, led by former President Thabo Mbeki. 

The  recent improvement in the  security situation 
in  Mogadishu  gives  us  great  optimism.  This  has  been 
achieved 
the 
Transitional  Federal  Government  (TFG),  supported  by 
the African Union Mission in Somalia (AMISOM) and 
the  concerted  efforts  of 
story  exemplifies 
through 
success 
A/66/PV.16
the  international  community.  The  exit  of  Al-Shabaab 
from  Mogadishu  provides  a  unique  window  of 
opportunity  for  the  international  community  to  rally 
behind  Somalia  and  consolidate  the  gains  made  thus 
far.  I  urge  the  United  Nations  and  the  international 
community  to  seize  the  moment,  support  IGAD  and 
partner  with  the  TFG  in  the  efforts  to  restore  lasting 
peace and stability to Somalia.  

As  a  first  step,  I  call  upon  the  international 
community  to  enhance  the  mandate  of  AMISOM  by 
providing it with the necessary enablers and resources. 
Only then can AMISOM have the required capacity to 
extend  its  coverage  and  control.  In  addition,  we  must 
support the TFG in the implementation of the Kampala 
Accord, which spells out a range of political processes 
necessary  for  the  attainment  of  sustainable  peace  and 
development in Somalia. 

The  complex  challenge  of  climate  change 
continues  to  manifest  itself  in  the  Horn  of Africa. As 
the General Assembly is aware, the region is currently 
experiencing  the  worst  drought  in  60  years.  The 
drought has resulted in a severe crisis that is affecting 
more  than  12  million  people.  The  region  is  now 
suffering from increased environmental stress, the loss 
of  livelihoods  and  intense  competition  for  scarce 
resources. Moreover, the situation has sometimes led to 
armed conflict among neighbouring communities. This 
reality requires us to enhance the regional capacity for 
early  warning 
response 
arrangements. 

The  scale  of  climate  change  and  environmental 
degradation  calls  for  sustained  action.  In  that  regard, 
Kenya  hopes  that  the  seventeenth  session  of  the 
Conference  of  Parties 
the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held 
in  Durban,  will  deliver  on African  expectations  in  the 
form of support for adaptation measures. Furthermore, 
Kenya  believes  that  the  international  organizations 
working  on  the  environment  will  be  streamlined  and 
given 
the 
transformation  of  the  United  Nations  Environment 
Programme  (UNEP)  into  a  specialized  United  Nations 
agency, as recommended by the AU, will be of critical 
importance.  It  is  my  hope  that  the  Rio  Summit 
scheduled  for  next  year  in  Brazil  will  endorse  this 
position and upgrade UNEP accordingly. 

Finally,  I  cannot  conclude  my  statement  today 
without  once  again  restating  Kenya’s  position  on  the 
systems  and  adequate 
sufficient 
support. 
regard, 
that 
to 
In 
11-50871 

5 

A/66/PV.16 

issue  of  Palestine.  Kenya  believes  in  the  two-State 
solution  where  the  territorial  integrity  of  Palestine 
within  the  1967  borders  is  upheld  and  the  peace  and 
security of Israel are both assured and guaranteed. It is 
therefore our hope that Palestine will be welcomed into 
the community of nations with full membership in the 
United Nations. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Kenya for the statement he 
has just made. 

Mr.  Mwai  Kibaki,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Kenya,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 


to 
The President (spoke in French): The Assembly 
Address by Mr. Mikheil Saakashvili, President 
of Georgia 

will now hear an address by the President of Georgia. 

Mr.  Mikheil  Saakashvili,  President  of  Georgia, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Mikheil  Saakashvili,  President  of  Georgia,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Saakashvili:  It  is  of  course  a  great 

honour  and  a  profound  responsibility  to  address  the 
sixty-sixth  session  of  the  General Assembly  on  behalf 
of my people. 

international 
community’s  great  legacy  of  the  past  century,  an 
institution 
from  history’s  most 
outrageous  crimes  and  from  humankind’s  capacity  to 
confront, reckon with and overcome the consequences 
of  such  crimes.  Such  human  contradictions  —  “the 
highest  heaven  and  the  deepest  abyss”,  to  quote 
Friedrich  Schelling  —  are  symbolized  by  the  two 
remarkable anniversaries we commemorate this year. I 
am surprised that no one in the Hall has mentioned that 
this  year  marks  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the 
collapse  of  the  Soviet  Union,  which  freed  captive 
nations and emancipated oppressed peoples, unleashed 
the  dreams  of  millions,  put  an  end  to  decades  of  cold 
war  and  an  apocalyptic  nuclear  race  and  heralded  a 
new era of international relations. It was clearly not, as 
one  nostalgic  leader  put  it,  the  biggest  geopolitical 
The  United  Nations 
resulting  both 
is 
the 
catastrophe  of  the  twentieth  century.  Nor  was  it,  as 
some  analysts  and  diplomats  dreamed,  the  end  of 
history.  

Ten  years  later,  in  this  very  city,  another  major 
event  took  place,  this  time  a  real  catastrophe.  It 
reminded us  in the most horrific  way that history was 
not  over  and  that  it  remained  tragic.  On  that  terrible 
day, even those who had failed to pay heed to a decade 
of  grim  wars  in  the  Balkans  and  the  Caucasus,  in 
Africa  and  in  Afghanistan,  had  to  abandon  their 
illusions  that  a  new  world  order  free  of  conflicts  had 
emerged for good. 

The attacks on New York and Washington, D.C., 
were not aimed at a single country, but instead targeted 
a  set  of  values  and  a  way  of  life  —  freedom  and 
democracy. That day, 11 September 2001, reminded us 
that  the  world  remained  a  true  battlefield  —  a 
battlefield not among religions, as many people claim, 
or  of  nations,  but  a  battlefield  within  every  religion, 
every  nation  and  every  culture;  a  battlefield  between 
those  who  try  to  build  and  those  who  seek  to  destroy, 
between  those  who  choose  freedom  and  those  who 
pledge  to  eradicate  it;  a  battlefield  between  nihilism 
and the very idea of civilization.  

Ten  years  later,  the  remarkable  upheavals  in  the 
Arab world have offered us yet more proof that there is 
no  end  to  history,  nor  is  there  a  clash  of  civilizations. 
Instead,  a  universal  call  to  freedom  is  rising  even  in 
places  where  some  doubted  it  could  ever  rise.  It  is 
being  met  by  a  monstrous  effort  to  quell  it.  As  we 
speak,  the  highest  heaven  and  the  deepest  abyss  are 
once again in conflict. It is our duty as leaders to weigh 
in and speak out, to decide and to act. 

The  first  anniversary  I  evoked  earlier  —  the  fall 
of Soviet tyranny — continues to reverberate today in 
important ways. When the moment came 20 years ago 
for us, the former subjects of the Soviet bureaucracy — 
students, artists, dissidents, workers, men and women, 
old and young — it was hardly the end of history; on 
the  contrary,  it  was  a  new  beginning  of  history. 
Communism  had  frozen  our  will  in  a  cold  and  closed 
museum. When it collapsed, the doors of history swung 
open again. We found ourselves confronted at once by 
both  the  best  and  the  worst.  The  best  transpired  for 
those  nations  quickly  integrated  into  the  European 
Union and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. The 
others  —  like  the  people  of  my  country,  Georgia  — 
6 

11-50871 
to 
that 
Two  years  ago,  from 
there  were 


were  left  to  the  mercy  of  failed  States,  civil  unrest, 
wars, ethnic cleansing and foreign occupation. 

this  very  podium,  I 
suggested 
two  ways 
leave 
communism behind and to re-enter history — the way 
of  Vaclav  Havel  and  the  way  of  Slobodan  Milošević, 
the  way  of  liberal  democracy  and  tolerance,  on  one 
side,  and  the  way  of  authoritarianism  and  ethnic 
nationalism,  on  the  other.  There  are,  in  other  words, 
men who embrace freedom and men who erect mental 
and physical walls against it. 

To  the  latter,  who  still  see  the  extension  of  the 
European Union and NATO as a threat, I would like to 
say  that  the  Cold  War  ended  in  December  1991  and 
that  they  should  not  be  afraid  of  having  democratic 
neighbours  who  wish  to  join  wider  democratic  clubs. 
There is no hidden agenda or secret plot in any of those 
capitals  to  undermine  the  sovereignty  of  big  nations. 
The  Cold War  ended  20  years  ago  and,  slowly  —  too 
slowly  —  new  rules  are  emerging.  And  even  those 
rules are still too rarely applied. 

Little  by  little,  tyrants  are  beginning  to  fear  that 
they  could  one  day  be  held  accountable  for  their 
crimes. I am convinced that there will be less and less 
tolerance for the ethnic cleansing and other war crimes 
that have stained my country and so many others. That 
is  the  very  reason  for  the  existence  as  the  United 
Nations,  is  it  not?  The  United  Nations  exists  to  make 
the  world  a  little  better,  to  finally  enforce  the  rules, 
charters,  laws  and  principles  upon  which  we  have  all 
come to agree. 

It  is  time  to  understand  that  the  world  has 
changed  and  that  an  army,  as  powerful  as  it  might 
seem,  cannot  ultimately  deny  the  will  of  the  people; 
that  a  Government,  as  strong  as  it  might  look,  cannot 
unilaterally  and  freely  dismember  sovereign  nations; 
and that we are not in 1938 or in 1968, but in 2011. 

As  I  speak,  the  Russian  Federation  militarily 
occupies 20 per cent of sovereign Georgian territory, in 
violation  of  international  law  and  the  12 August  2008 
ceasefire  agreement.  As  I  speak,  almost  500,000 
internally  displaced  persons  and  refugees  in  a  country 
of less than 5 million people continue to suffer because 
they  are  denied  their  right,  a  right  reaffirmed  over  a 
dozen times by this very body, to return to their homes 
and villages. They cannot go back because, in Moscow, 
a  foreign  leader  has  decided  that  their  home  is  no 
longer their home. 
A/66/PV.16
is 
the  European  Parliament 
the  United  Nations  and 

To  such  cynicism  and  brutality  we  respond  with 
calls  for justice  and commitments to peace. Last year, 
on 23 November, I addressed the European Parliament 
and  solemnly  pledged  that  Georgia  would  never  use 
force to liberate those of its regions currently occupied 
by  the  Russian  Federation.  Even  though  the  United 
Nations Charter gives us the authority to do so, as we 
well  know,  we  definitively  renounced  military  means 
to  restore  our  territorial  integrity.  The  commitment  I 
made  before 
legally 
binding;  I  have  sent  relevant  letters  to  the  Secretary-
General  of 
to  other 
international organizations. 

It will soon be one year since Georgia renounced 
the use of force. One year has passed, and we are still 
waiting  for  Russia’s  leadership  to  reciprocate  this 
gesture  of  peace.  Unfortunately,  instead  of  dialogue, 
the response we have received has come in the form of 
a dozen terrorist acts targeting Georgia, attacks directly 
organized  and supervised  by confirmed officers of the 
Russian  secret  services,  which  has  been  authenticated 
by different international actors. 

The Cold War is over, but some leaders have yet 
to  realize  that  fact  and  stop  reasoning  in  terms  of 
spheres of influence, near-abroad domination and zero-
sum  games.  The  Cold  War  is  over,  but  embargoes, 
blackmail  and  brutal  diktats  are  still  used  against 
Ukraine, Moldova and Belarus. The Cold War is over, 
but  even 
to  deal  with 
manipulation  of  their  democratic  political  landscape 
and neo-colonial games with their minorities. The Cold 
War  is  over,  but  the  old  Soviet  habit  of  playing  on 
ethnic  and  religious  hatreds  is  still  alive.  That  is 
especially  true  in  the  black  hole  that  the  North 
Caucasus 
violence, 
displacement and the killing of hundreds of thousands 
of inhabitants. 

these  brutal  and 
Georgia 
dangerous  policies  by  opening  its  borders,  inviting 
people  to  come  to  engage  in  exchange,  debate  and 
dialogue,  by  trying  to  overcome  the  information 
blockades,  by 
to  rebuild  bridges  between 
nations —  those  essential  bridges  that  others  are 
systematically trying to destroy. Georgia is responding 
to  military  build-up  with  programmes  to  lift  children 
out  of  poverty  through  access  to  modern  technologies  — 
computers,  the  Internet  —  and  with  new  hotels  and 
new  boulevards  and  cycling  paths.  Georgia 
is 
responding  to  methods  of  the  past  by  embracing  the 
the  Baltic  States  have 
is  responding 
to 
trying 
has 
become,  with 
brutal 
11-50871 

7 
A/66/PV.16 

promises of the future, and many others as well — new 
health-care  systems,  hundreds  of  new  hospitals, 
advanced programmes to deal with communicable and 
non-communicable diseases, and insurance for all. 

The  end  of  the  Cold  War  launched  an  era  of 
opportunity  and  turbulence,  liberating  local  dynamics 
in  ways  both  tragic  and  exultant,  and  leading  to  a 
constant  flux  in  the  world  order.  It  has  unleashed 
hatred, ethnic conflict, mass terror, genocide and many 
other  human  calamities.  But  it  has  also  generated 
fantastic emancipations. 

Think  of  the  “coloured”  revolutions  in  Eastern 
Europe, the dazzling development of Asia, the progress 
of  democracy  in  Africa  or,  more  recently,  the  Arab 
Spring;  none  would  have  been  possible  if  the  Soviet 
Union  still  existed  as  a  global  player  and  a  global 
threat  to  all  the  continents,  including Africa, Asia  and 
Europe alike. Since 1991, history has become more and 
more  unpredictable,  swinging  violently  between  the 
highest  heaven  and  the  deepest  abyss  that  Schelling 
referred  to.  Indeed,  who  could  have  anticipated  the 
global  consequences  of  a  desperate  act  by  a  26-year-
old  Tunisian,  Mohamed  Bouazizi,  in  the  remote  town 
of Sidi Bouzid? 

One poor man, in an unknown place, was denied 
his  rights  by  an  imperious  police  and,  like  a  distant 
echo  of  the  Czech  Jan  Palach  in  front  of  the  Russian 
tanks in 1968, he immolated himself. This breathtaking 
act  of  despair  has  literally  turned  the  world  upside 
down. 
Some  dictators  are  jailed  or  on  the  run;  regimes 

considered 
new 
constitutions  and  orders  are  being  born.  An  entire 
region  and  culture  derogatorily  labelled  as  unfit  for 
democracy  by  some  people 
in  more  developed 
countries  has  given  the  whole  world,  including  the 
developed world, a lesson in freedom. 
Such  historical  eruptions  always  come  as  a 

radical 
surprise.  They 
astonishment  that  Aristotle  considered  as  the  very 
beginning  of  philosophy,  the  first  step  towards  true 
wisdom and a radical emancipation from our prejudices 
and dogmas. 

Very  few  predicted  the  revolutions  that  swept 
across  Eastern  and  Central  Europe  in  1989,  or  the 
“coloured”  revolutions  that  followed  15  years  later. 
Even  fewer  predicted  Tunis,  Cairo,  Benghazi  and 
from  us  all 
untouchable 
collapsed; 
have 
require 
the 

the 
in  order 
to  defeat 
Tripoli.  The  popular  call  for  freedom  that  has  shaken 
the  world  in  2011  is  the  best  and  most  definitive 
answer to the hatred that motivated the attacks against 
this very city 10 years ago. 

When  aspiring  populations  are  free  to  live  their 
lives,  practice  their  trades,  raise  their  children,  voice 
their  ideas  and  press  their  grievances,  the  space  for 
terrorists to recruit or demagogues to sow ethnic hatred 
starts to evaporate.  

International  police,  military  and  intelligence 
cooperation  in  the  war  against Al-Qaida  over  the  past 
decade have been, and still are, essential in protecting 
our freedoms. I am proud that Georgia has borne more 
than its share in the international effort in Afghanistan. 
I  am  proud  of  our  thousands  of  soldiers  who  risk 
everything 
international 
movement  of  hatred  —  and  I  want  to  pay  tribute  to 
those  who  have  died  on  the  battlefield.  I  am  proud  of 
our  police  who  are  engaged  in  the  struggle  against 
nuclear  trafficking.  I  am  proud  that  Georgia  has 
become  a  provider,  not 
just  a  consumer,  of 
international security. 
I am proud of all of this, but I am also very aware 

that extremism will not be defeated and terrorism will 
not  be  eradicated  by  military  and  police  means  alone. 
Terrorism  and  extremism  can  be  defeated  only  if 
freedom,  democracy  and  prosperity  extend  their  reach 
in the world. 

This  is  why  we  welcomed  so  genuinely  the 
efforts  of  President  Obama  and  President  Rousseff  in 
launching  the  Open  Government  Partnership.  The 
world has to respond to the universal call for freedom 
and justice, and only a coordinated response to this call 
can guarantee our common long-term security. 

Georgia  is  ready  and  willing  once  again  to  take 
on more than its share in this international effort. Our 
experience of radical post-revolutionary transformation 
over the past eight years could very well be useful for 
the newly liberated lands.  

We were not always free. We were a totally failed 
State,  a  dying  economy,  a  country  destroyed  by 
corruption  and  authoritarian  structures.  In  2003,  a 
peaceful, popular revolution brought to power a young 
team of reformists. From one day to the next, we were 
in  charge  of  a  fragile  country  in  a  hostile  geopolitical 
environment.  We  discovered  quickly  that  the  slogans, 
roses, flags and other tools we used as opposition and 
8 

11-50871 
three  months  without  a 


civil  society  leaders  would  no  longer  suffice.  We 
discovered,  in  fact,  that  revolutions  are  not  only,  and 
not  even  mainly,  about  the  crowds  gathered  in  the 
streets, but that they consist essentially of the long and 
difficult process of reform that follows the uprising. 

This is the main challenge that Tunisia, Egypt and 
Libya  now  face.  The  uplifting  images  of  people 
celebrating  liberation  in  Tahrir  Square,  or  Libyan 
citizens dancing in Muammar Al-Qadhafi’s palaces, are 
already  in  the  past.  The  success  of  those  revolutions 
will  depend  on  what  happens  after  the  legions  of 
reporters from CNN, the BBC and Al-Jazeera have left. 

This is precisely the moment when our Georgian 
experience  —  both  successes  and  shortcomings  — 
could  prove  useful.  Of  course  we  hardly  succeeded  in 
everything, and we made many mistakes. But we have 
also had astonishing results. 

In the aftermath of the Rose Revolution, we fired 
100  per  cent  of  our  entire  police  force.  Georgia  lived 
for 
single  policeman. 
Amazingly, during that period, crime rates went down 
dramatically.  Why?  Not  only  because  the  police  were 
responsible for a large part of our crime rate, but also 
because  there  was  a  shared  feeling  that  our  citizens 
finally had a stake in their country and that they were 
living actors in a very specific moment of our nation’s 
history — a moment when everything seemed possible, 
when values became the basis of politics and when one 
had  the  feeling  of  inventing  one’s  own  future.  This 
feeling  is  the  true  engine  of  history  and  our  best  ally 
against extremists. But it is a fragile feeling that has to 
be nurtured and sustained. 

In Georgia, we have managed to keep this feeling 
alive until now by a permanent process of reform with 
clear  benchmarks.  Thanks  to  radical  changes  in  our 
police  force,  customs,  tax  service  and  bureaucratic 
structures, and thanks to the widespread feeling among 
people  that  they  own  these  transformations,  we  have 
made  greater  progress  on Transparency  International’s 
Corruption  Perceptions  Index  since  2003  than  any 
other  State  in  the  world.  We  are  the  second  or  third 
least  corrupt  State 
the 
European  Bank  for  Reconstruction  and  Development 
(EBRD) survey. 

We  have  built  a  highly  favourable  investment 
climate  based  on  efficiency,  transparency  and  the  rule 
of  law. As  a  result,  we  are  now  ranked  as  one  of  the 
easiest  places  in  the  world  to  do  business. The  World 
in  Europe,  according 
to 
A/66/PV.16
the  path 
This 
Of  course, 
is  why  we  supported 
Bank  ranked  Georgia,  based  on  five  years  of  records, 
as  the  world’s  number  one  economic  reformer.  No 
other country has progressed in that five-year period as 
we  did.  We  are  ranked  first  in  Eastern  and  Central 
Europe  in  terms  of  business,  as  I  said,  as  one  of  the 
easiest places in the world. 

The 2011 EBRD survey on countries in transition 
singles  out  Georgia  as  the  most  successful  country  in 
our region in terms of institution-building, on par with 
developed European countries.  
There is still a lot to be done, obviously. We are 

more  committed  than  ever  to  pursuing  our  path  of 
reforms and to continuing to build our democracy, even 
as  the  barrels  of  hostile  tanks  point  at  us  just 
40 kilometres away from our capital. 

to  efficient  democratic 
Government  is  difficult,  but  it  is  the  only  path.  Of 
course, people will be impatient and disappointed, but 
there  is  no  alternative  to  the  success  of  this  call  for 
freedom. This is why it is so important to support this 
call and to deter those who want to suppress it. 

the  NATO-led 
intervention  in  Libya  at  the  initiative  of  the  United 
Kingdom, France and the United States. The very fact 
that  the  National  Transitional  Council  is  now  sitting 
here,  in  the  Hall,  and  that  Al-Qadhafi  can  no  longer 
speak from this rostrum should give hope for the future 
to all of us. The very fact that this effort was approved 
by the Security Council has shown that that institution 
can actually be the essential framework for the defence 
of human rights. 

The  two  anniversaries  we  are  marking  —  the 
anniversary  of  the  fall  of  the  Soviet  empire  and  the 
anniversary of 9/11 — continue to confront us with this 
central  question:  how  can  we  ensure  that  the  new 
spaces  that  have  opened  in  our  world  in  the  past 
20 years thanks to the fall of dictators and thanks to the 
spread  of  new  technologies  are  filled  by  peace  rather 
than  violence,  by  tolerance  rather  than  extremism  and 
by freedom rather than new forms of enslavement? 

History will judge our generation by how actively 
we help to answer this question, particularly in a series 
of pivotal arenas, in what people call abusively frozen 
conflicts  in  and  near  my  own  region,  in  the  many 
countries  in  the  international  community  that  remain 
under tyranny’s yoke and in the places like those Arab 
11-50871 

9 

Wael  Ghonim, 
A/66/PV.16 

States that have achieved a new spring of freedom and 
are starting the difficult work of reforms.  

the  young  Egyptian  Google 
executive who helped connect and mobilize so many of 
his  country’s  people  to  stand  up  for  freedom,  recently 
said that the new revolutions, like the one his country 
experienced, are a little like Wikipedia: they are grand, 
open projects to which everyone can contribute. 

The  need  for  participation  applies  to  us  as  well. 
As national leaders and as key decision-makers, we can 
contribute  and  we  must  contribute.  Let  us  rise  to  that 
historical imperative. Let us all make our contribution, 
so that, together, we may  avoid the deepest abyss and 
strive instead for the highest heaven. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  Georgia  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

Mr.  Mikheil  Saakashvili,  President  of  Georgia, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.  


to 
into 
Address by Mr. Leonel Fernández Reyna, President 
of the Dominican Republic 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the 
President of the Dominican Republic. 

Mr.  Leonel  Fernández  Reyna,  President  of  the 
Dominican  Republic,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
welcome 
Mr. Leonel  Fernández  Reyna,  President  of 
the 
Dominican  Republic,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly. 
President Fernández Reyna (spoke in Spanish): 

We  extend  our  warmest  congratulations 
the 
Ambassador 
from  Qatar,  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser,  on  his  recent  election  as  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at 
its  sixty-sixth  session.  We 
welcome  his  intention  to  use  this  session  to  address 
pressing 
issues  such  as  mediation  and  conflict 
resolution,  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations  system, 
preventing  and  responding  to  natural  disasters  and 
sustainable development for global prosperity. 
to 
In 
the 
Iraq,  which 
the  occupation  of 

Ten  years  ago,  the  dynamic  and  vibrant  city  of 
New  York  was  shocked  by  something  previously 
inconceivable: the terrorist attacks on the Twin Towers. 
Thousands  of  innocent  people  died  in  horrific  ways, 
leaving  relatives  and  friends  in  a  state  of  helplessness 
and  sorrow.  Echoes  of  that  terror  reverberated  around 
the planet, leaving scars and a trail of pain to this day. 
The world has not been the same since then. 

in  strong 
interest  of  security,  even 
democracies where genuine rule of law prevails, some 
individual  liberties,  previously  considered  sacred  and 
immutable, have been sacrificed. While the ashes were 
still  smouldering  and  the  rubble  of  the  Twin  Towers 
still  lay  where  it  fell,  the  war  in  Afghanistan  was 
launched,  which,  although  perhaps  justified  as  a  case 
of legitimate defence, has nevertheless produced more 
victims  than  the  terrorist  attacks  themselves.  Then 
came 
spurred 
controversy  in  various  circles  of  international  public 
opinion  but  in  any  case  certainly  generated  more 
violence,  produced  new  victims  and  new  waves  of 
human  suffering  and  caused  more  destruction  of 
wealth. 

The lesson to be learned from these past 10 years 
is  that  there  must  be  a  collective  effort  to  eliminate 
terrorism  as  an  inhuman  practice,  to  eliminate  as  well 
the economic, social, political, cultural, ideological and 
religious  factors  that  fuel  it,  and  to  promote  a  world 
that  is  more  open,  more  tolerant,  more  respectful  and 
more  willing  to  engage  in  dialogue  and  in  the 
recognition of human dignity. 

Another  event  that  has  shaken  the  world  during 
the  past  decade  has  been  the  global  financial  crisis, 
produced  by  a  lack  of  clear  rules  in  the  international 
financial system, as well as by arrogance, greed and the 
unquenchable  thirst  for  wealth.  That  crisis  has  gone 
through several stages, but at this moment what is most 
worrisome  is  that  it  has  caused  a  division  among  the 
most  influential  and  powerful  political  and  economic 
sectors  in  the  world  over  strategies  to  fix  it.  While 
some  think  that  what  is  needed  at  this  time  is  public-
spending  stimulus  policies 
to  promote  economic 
growth  and  job  creation,  others  emphasize  reducing 
fiscal deficits and paying off sovereign debt. 

international  capital  markets  now 
demand that Governments pay a debt that was created, 
to  a  large  extent,  to  save  financial  institutions  from 
going  under  in  the  first  place? Although  incongruous, 
How  can 
10 

11-50871 
the  markets  by 


that  is  exactly  what  is  taking  place.  Markets  are 
currently  putting  pressure  on  States  to  pay  sovereign 
debts  that  were  themselves  essentially  the  result  of 
earlier  initiatives  by  States  to  rescue  banks  that  were 
either at risk or on the brink of bankruptcy.  

In  order  to  avoid  having  to  stop  payments  or 
defaulting  and  watching  their  economies  crumble 
further,  Governments  have  had  to  give  in  to  the 
pressure  of 
implementing  severe 
austerity  measures.  Those  policies  have  significantly 
decreased  citizens’  quality  of  life,  leading  to  social 
unrest and protest movements that erode Governments’ 
legitimacy  and  support  base.  Although  it  might  seem 
paradoxical,  in  some  developed  countries  loss  of 
popular  support  has  caused  Governments  to  fall, 
which,  in  echoes  of  coups  d’état,  have  led  to  a  new 
political phenomenon that might be called, for lack of a 
better word, market “coups”. 

What  is  strange  about  this  situation  is  that  what 
we need is resources to save the international financial 
system,  stabilize  the  world  economy  and  return  us  to 
our earlier levels of economic growth and prosperity — 
and  those  resources  are  at  hand.  For  example,  it  is 
known that even though $4 trillion circulate every day 
around  the  world  in  the  form  of  financial  transactions 
in  capital  markets,  no  taxes  are  in  place  that  would 
increase States’ fiscal resources.  

How much would Governments collect through a 
5 per cent tax on the $4 trillion circulating daily around 
the  world?  That  would  represent  $20  billion  per  day, 
which, multiplied by five business days a week, would 
come to a total of $100 billion. If, in turn, we multiply 
that  number  by  four  weeks  a  month  we  would  have 
monthly  income  of  $400  billion.  And  those  $400 billion 
monthly, multiplied by 12 months in a year, amount to 
an  astronomical  $4.8  trillion.  That  amount  would  not 
only resolve the problems of some countries’ sovereign 
debt  but  there  would  be  enough  fresh  resources  for 
investing, which would allow a rapid recovery from the 
current financial and economic world crisis. 

Nonetheless,  were  we  to  conclude  that  this  was 
not  an  appropriate  way  for  States  to  raise  revenue, 
what  about  the more than  10 trillion dollars  deposited 
in  tax  havens,  according  to  reports  by  international 
advisory institutions? 

As  we  know,  not  a  cent  from  those  deposits, 
which increase by more than 600 billion dollars every 
year, reaches the tax services of any Government. 
A/66/PV.16

In  the  meantime,  through  our  failure  to  tax 
international  financial  transactions  and  the  deposits 
made in tax havens, the global financial and economic 
crisis continues, citizens become indignant as they see 
their  standard  of  living  erode,  social  demonstrations 
multiply,  Governments  are  threatened  by  the  lack  of 
governance, chaos takes over societies, and uncertainty 
expands everywhere. 

In  sum,  we  are  forced  to  accept  increasingly 
alarming  levels  of  social  injustice  because  of  the 
undeniable  and  uncontrollable  power  held  by  a  circle 
of the world’s economic elite. 

Despite the wide range of global problems before 
us,  I  wish  to  address  just  one  of  them:  financial 
speculation  on 
the  price  of  food  and  oil.  The 
Dominican  Republic  will  submit  a  draft  resolution  on 
the subject to this Assembly General. 

Since 2005 there has been a steady increase in the 
prices  of  food  and  oil,  along  with  that  of  petroleum 
by-products.  

From  2006  to  2008,  the  price  of  soya  beans  has 
increased 107 per cent; the price of corn, 125 per cent; 
rice, 127 per cent; and wheat, 136 per cent. 

and  Agriculture 
Organization  of  the  United  Nations  (FAO),  as  a  result 
of  those  price  increases,  150  million  people  joined 
those around the world who already literally go hungry. 

As  a  result,  for  the  first  time  in  the  history  of 
humankind, the total number of people who lack access 
to food surpassed 1 billion, which represents almost  a 
sixth of the world population. 

With  the  recession  that  took  place  during  the 
second half of 2008, food prices went down, and it was 
thought 
to  a  situation  of 
accessible food prices and overall increased stability.  

However,  with  the  slight  upturn  and  reactivation 
of  the  world  economy  in  2010,  prices  went  up  again, 
and  this  year  the  ravages  of  inflation  have  been  felt 
once again in different parts of the world. 

The  same  has  happened  with  the  price  of  oil. 
After falling to $12 a barrel in 1998, ten years later, in 
July  2008,  two  months  before  the  bankruptcy  of 
Lehman Brothers, it was priced at $147 a barrel. 
that  we  would  return 
the  Food 
According 
to 
11-50871 

11 

the  price 
in  demand 
A/66/PV.16 


Paradoxically,  at  the  end  of  2008,  oil  prices  had 
dropped  so  precipitously  that  the  new  price  on  the 
international market was $37 a barrel. 

Who could possibly explain something as absurd 
as  a  price  drop  from  $147  to  $37  a  barrel  in  just  four 
months? 
It has been argued that, with regard to both food 

and  oil,  those  exorbitant  price  increases  can  be 
explained  by  the  growth  of  the  world  population,  an 
increase 
from  emerging  economies, 
especially  China  and  India,  the  effects  of  climate 
change,  and  geo-political  tensions  in  regions  of  the 
world affected by conflict. 

There can be no doubt that some of those factors 
have  influenced  prices  to  some  extent,  but  there  has 
also been a clear effort to downplay the importance of 
a  new  element  in  international  markets:  financial 
speculation in commodity futures. 
According  to  well-known  international  analysts, 

30 
increases  for 
to  40  per  cent  of 
commodities  or  basic  products  can  be  ascribed  to  the 
impact or influence of financial speculation on futures 
contracts. 

In light of that situation, which has a daily impact 
on our food-  and oil-importing people, the Dominican 
Republic  has  weighed  the  need  to  propose  regulatory 
measures  of  international  scope  in  order  to  guarantee 
market transparency and price stability. 

To that end, it is essential to limit the volume of 
transactions  that  may  be  executed  by  such  futures 
market participants as insurance companies, investment 
banks,  pension  funds  and  equity  funds,  among  others, 
which play no direct part in the physical production of 
the product. 

Likewise, deposits on futures contracts should be 
raised, as a way to discourage speculative transactions 
that  only  contribute  to  price  volatility  and  create 
uncertainty and a lack of market predictability. 

We believe that by adopting such a resolution we 
will  take  an  important  step  towards  solving  a  serious 
problem that has condemned a large part of humankind 
to hunger and destitution. 
In  sum,  the  objective  of  this  initiative  is  simple, 

just,  and  of  far-reaching 
to 
persuade  the Assembly  General  of  the  United  Nations 
importance,  namely, 
Food must be used only to guarantee the survival 
to  declare,  for  the  sake  of  the  human  race,  that  food 
cannot be considered a financial asset. 

of the human race on the face of the Earth. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Dominican Republic for the statement 
he has just made. 

Mr.  Lionel  Fernández  Reyna,  President  of  the 
Dominican  Republic,  was  escorted 
the 
General Assembly Hall. 
from 


Address by Mr. Ollanta Humala Tasso, President of 
the Republic of Peru 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Peru. 


to 
Mr.  Ollanta  Humala  Tasso,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Peru,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Ollanta Humala Tasso, President of the Republic of 
Peru, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Humala  Tasso  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

would  first  like  to  congratulate  the  President  on  his 
election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General Assembly  at 
its sixty-sixth session, and to assure him of Peru’s firm 
support in his task. 

I  would  also  like  to  say  how  pleased  I  am  to  be 
speaking to the world on  behalf of the  people of Peru 
from 
that  represents  multilateralism, 
peace,  solidarity  and  cooperation,  the  principles  that 
inspired  the  birth  of  this  Organization  and  that  Peru 
fully supports. 

The  Government  I  head  began  its  administration 
only  a  few  weeks  ago.  Through  the  ballot  box,  the 
people of Peru entrusted us with the task of making  a 
great  transformation,  one  that  we  have  sought  for  a 
good  part  of  our  history.  We  intend  to  make  that 
commitment  a  reality,  out  of  a  sense  of  responsibility 
and honour. Our mythical and vibrant nation, possessed 
of  an  extraordinary  past  and  a  vigorous  present, 
demands that we put an end to centuries of poverty and 
this  rostrum 
12 

11-50871 
have 
growth 
that  Peruvians 


exclusion.  The  great  transformation  is  a  process  of 
social  inclusion,  that  is  to  say,  of  converting  the 
economic 
been 
experiencing for the last 10 years into development; in 
other words, we must turn money into quality of life. 

Our  ideal  of  the  great  transformation  is  as 
impossible to relinquish as is our democratic faith. My 
Government proposes to deepen our democracy, so that 
we  can  respond  to  the  problems  and  needs  of  all,  not 
just  a  minority.  In  other  words,  we  will  democratize 
democracy.  Democracy  is  the  basis  of  a  people’s  self-
determination,  and  the  State  must  be  prepared  to 
faithfully  carry  out  the  people’s  will.  That  is  the 
foundation of a sovereign democracy. In order to fulfil 
that  commitment,  the  State  must  be  the  institution 
responsible  for  shaping  the  path  to  transformation 
through  public  policies  in  both  the  political  and 
economic spheres. The State must act in the interests of 
the people. 

The  United  Nations  is  the  greatest  guarantee  we 
have  for  preserving  peace,  and  it  is  made  up  of  our 
States.  Today,  however,  we  know  that  there  are 
companies  that  have  as  much  power  as  or  greater 
power than many States, and that can react rapidly via 
the networks of the Internet and the stock market to put 
States  themselves  in  the  dock  of  the  accused.  That 
situation  must  be  taken  into  account  in  order  to 
safeguard  State  policies  concerning  issues  such  as  the 
preservation  of  the  environment,  respect  for  peoples’ 
self-determination  and 
indigenous 
communities and social minorities, among others. 

possibility 
of 
transformation  outside  the  rule  of  law  and  its  values. 
This  is  not  a  question  of  copying  others’  models.  We 
will  govern  by  consensus,  both  at  home  and  abroad, 
protecting  all  our  freedoms  with  tolerance  and,  above 
all, by listening to our citizens, without regard to class, 
race  or  gender.  When  I  took  office  I  quoted  Nelson 
Mandela,  who  said  that  there  is  no  democracy  with 
poverty, and no democracy with social inequality. Our 
Government seeks a State that can regain the ability to 
promulgate  policies  that  respond  to  the  needs  and 
aspirations of all its citizens. It is in that spirit that we 
are  renewing  our  commitment  to  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

Latin America  is  the  most  unequal  region  in  the 
world.  Its  political  class  cannot  say  that  the  dream  of 
those  who  established  our  independence  and  founded 
rights  of 
consider 
cannot 
We 
the 
the 
A/66/PV.16
in 
of 
the 
our 
and 
Today 
talking  about 
communications 
founders.  However, 
the  republics  of  today,  has  come  true.  In  most  cases, 
values such as liberty, equality and fraternity were the 
banners 
extreme 
interpretations  of  those  values  have  led  to  a  world  of 
great  confrontations,  without  really  advancing  liberty 
or equality. Let us  now strengthen fraternity as a  path 
to lasting peace. In that regard, I would like, from this 
rostrum,  to  take  the  opportunity  to  recognize  the 
Palestinian  State  and  its  right  to  live  in  peace  and 
harmony  alongside  other  countries  of  the  United 
Nations. 

integration  of  a  geographically 
fragmented  and  scattered  nation  is  possible,  thanks  to 
advances 
physical 
infrastructure.  Social  inclusion  also  demands  quality 
public  services  and  equality  of  opportunity.  Citizens 
need  access  to  health,  education,  housing,  decent  jobs 
and  social  security.  We  are 
full 
integration within Peruvian society. We are vigorously 
promoting  exchanges  between  our  communities,  and 
we acknowledge and seek to re-evaluate our diversity. 

We want a State that is responsive to the needs of 
its  citizens  and  communities. That  is  its  primary  role. 
The exploitation of non-renewable sovereign resources, 
which  Peru  is  rich  in,  should  serve  the  country’s 
development.  Investment  projects  should  respect  both 
the human and the natural environments in which they 
take  place.  This  is  already  being  made  clear  to 
investors 
that  my 
Government  has  undertaken  within  the  framework  of 
the rule of law. Thanks to those negotiations, the State 
and  our  communities  will  have  greater  resources 
available  for  social  investment  projects.  That  will 
enable  us  to  promote  social  cohesion  and  democratic 
stability,  and,  at  the  same  time,  the  more  favourable 
investment environment that the country needs. One of 
the first measures we took was to enact a law on prior 
consultation,  through  which  we  can  respond  to  the 
demands  of  our  indigenous  communities,  involving 
them  in  decisions  that  concern  them.  In  that  way  we 
are affirming that every Peruvian is a first-class citizen, 
and  we  are  fulfilling  a  commitment  made  by  Peru  in 
compliance  with  Convention  169  of  the  International 
Labour  Organization  concerning  indigenous  and  tribal 
peoples. 

Drug  trafficking  is  one  of  the  world’s  most 
serious issues. It is essential that we recognize the fact 
that this major problem has not been overcome; worse, 
its  power  and  influence  are  growing  every  day. 
through  a  negotiation  process 
11-50871 

13 
in 
this 
link 
illegal 
A/66/PV.16 

Acknowledging this reality is an important step, which 
will  enable  us  to  re-establish  an  integrated  policy, 
working  together  with  stakeholders  and  giving  equal 
importance  to  both  controlling  supply  and  reducing 
demand. For Peru, these principles also involve States’ 
duty  to  act  decisively  and  cooperatively  in  order  to 
combat  every 
that  criminal  chain.  Coca 
production is a source of income for tens of thousands 
of  people  who  cannot  always  rely  on  a  viable 
alternative for survival. My Government is working to 
achieve  a  situation  in  which  anti-drug  policies  lead  to 
the  eradication  of  illegal  coca  crops,  and  is  also 
considering  the  need  to  include  peasant  farmers  in 
alternative  development  programmes.  Unless  we  do, 
eradication  will  simply  be  insufficient  to  achieve  our 
objectives. We must act more vigorously in combating 
the  transnational  criminal  organizations  that  are  the 
main  beneficiaries  of 
trade.  Those 
organizations  employ  thousands  of  people  and  exploit 
the poverty and vulnerabilities of States in areas where 
access is difficult. 
At  the  same  time,  we  require  greater  financial 

knowledge 
to  detect  money-laundering 
activities and more effective controls over supplies and 
precursors. In the context of security, we must control 
the  supply  of  weapons  that  the  cartels  and  criminal 
gangs use daily against citizens. 
In  the  second  quarter  of  next  year,  we  will 

convene  in  Lima  a  meeting  of  ministers  for  foreign 
affairs,  and  heads  of  organizations  responsible  for 
combating  drugs  in  order  to  address  these  issues  and 
define  specific  measures.  My  Government  will  spare 
no  effort  in  combating  the  drug  trade  and  organized 
crime.  

Peru  is  a  multicultural  country  that  is  in  the 
process of recognizing the wealth of its own diversity. 
For  example,  our  country  today  is  undergoing  a 
gastronomical 
that 
diversity contributes to social inclusion and sustainable 
development. Peruvian cooking is an area in which all 
Peruvians  —  from  the  peasant  and  the  cook  to  the 
fisherman  and 
tradesman  —  can  participate 
together.  It  is  based  on  a  millennial  dialogue  among 
many cultures — indigenous, African, European, Arab 
and Asian  —  that  is  represented  today  in  our  cuisine. 
For  that  reason,  we  have  called  on  UNESCO  to 
recognize Peruvian cooking as a representative element 
of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity.  
revolution 
in  order 
that  has 
revealed 
the 

and  of 
to  create  UN-Women.  We  call  on 
Technological  and  scientific  progress  has  grown 

exponentially  over 
the  past  50  years.  Currently, 
however,  there  has  been  a  parallel  growth  of  global 
exclusion. This is seen not only in the lack of access to 
technology,  but  also  in  the  mass  migrations  of  people 
seeking better opportunities abroad. Those people, who 
are  known  as  illegals,  are  in  fact  a  bridge  for 
integration.  However,  in  many  cases  the  needs  that 
motivate  them  to  move  abroad  lead  to  violations  of 
their  human  rights.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  call  for 
fairer  and  more  dignified  treatment  for  peoples  who 
contribute through their work to the economies of their 
countries  of  origin 
residence.  Their 
marginalization  this  will  push  them  into  informal 
economies run by mafias and criminal networks.  
With respect to social inclusion, my Government 

is  prioritizing  the  needs  of  the  most  fragile  and 
vulnerable, such as children and the elderly. However, 
we  are  also  concerned  with  the  need  to  protect  the 
rights of women, who have historically been victims of 
discrimination.  In  this  regard,  I  note  the  positive 
decision 
the 
international  community  to  work  together  to  promote 
gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of  women.  We 
also 
the  Durban 
Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action  adopted  at  the 
World 
Racial 
Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and  Related  Intolerance, 
whose tenth anniversary we celebrate today. 

The effects of climate change and greenhouse gas 
emissions  are  being  felt  in  the  most  vulnerable  social 
sectors  yet  affect  us  all,  rich  and  poor  alike.  In  the 
context of the global attempt to preserve the planet, we 
must  all  be  committed.  In  Peru,  we  are  working  to 
promote the use of clean energy through reforestation, 
environmental education and recognition of the right of 
participation  and  access  of  communities  that  possess 
traditional knowledge. That will require a large amount 
of resources and technology that are more abundant in 
the  northern  hemisphere.  Therefore,  we  reaffirm  the 
principle  of  shared  but  differentiated  responsibility 
between developed countries and developing countries. 
International  cooperation  must  enhance  the  level  of 
financial  and  technical  assistance  to  mitigate  the 
effects of climate change. 

Industrialized  countries  must  assume  and  fulfil 
the  commitment  to  significantly  reduce  their  carbon 
emissions. On 28 July in Lima, the Heads of States of 
the  Union  of  South  American  Nations  (UNASUR) 
reiterate  our  commitment 
Conference 
Racism, 
against 
to 
14 

11-50871 


called  attention  to  the  threats  posed  to  our  economies 
by  situations  that  originated  in  the  United  States, 
Europe and Asia, linked to the high level of public debt 
and  unemployment  and  the  slow  recovery  of  credit 
markets  and  investment.  Of  course,  is  the  situation  is 
also  due  to  military  ambitions  that  have  diverted  vast 
amounts of money that could have been used to prevent 
these crises.  

Latin  American  countries  are  learning  how  to 
overcome our chronic vulnerability in the face of these 
crises. We have decided to work together, coordinating 
our policies to enhance the economic underpinnings of 
our  countries  and  the  monitoring  of  our  financial 
systems.  We  have  established  the  South  American 
Council  of  Economy  and  Finance,  reflecting  our 
capacity to encourage dialogue and establish consensus 
to the benefit of all.  
Latin  America  will  not  be  spared  the  problems 

that  have  affected 
the  North.  We  are  making 
preparations.  It  is  not  enough  to  be  linked  to  one 
another;  we  must  be  united.  The  twenty-first  century 
may well be the moment for this part of the continent 
and  its  great  market  of  more  than  700  million  people. 
Our  commitment  to  integration,  peace  and  regional 
progress 
the  Peruvian 
integration  with  our  neighbouring 
Government, 
countries 
instrument  for  promoting 
security  and  development  for  all  throughout  South 
America and Latin America. This is in line with of the 
affirmation  that  the  path  to  peace  and  reconciliation 
requires an end to the blockade on Cuba.  

presidency of the General Assembly in 1959: 

“In centuries gone by, the arrogant will to power 
prevailed. Today mankind not only yearns to, but 
must, live in a world ruled by justice.” (A/PV.795, 
para. 33) 

The interdependence of our societies is  a fact. It 
is  not  necessary  to  create  further  divisions.  When 
making decisions, we must learn to talk to one another 
and to involve the viewpoints of the many actors of the 
international system. Peru reasserts its full support for 
enlarging  the  Security  Council  to  make  it  more 
representative and enhance its legitimacy. 

It  is  urgent  to  also  advance  reform  of  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  in  order  to  make  it  a 
As Víctor Andrés Belaúnde said on assuming the 
rhetorical.  For 
is  not 
is  a  priority 
A/66/PV.16
genuine, fundamental forum for the development of all 
peoples of the world. 

The priority we give to regional integration in no 
way  implies  that  ours  is  closed  regionalism.  That 
would be anachronistic in a globalized world. Although 
our  foreign  policy  is  based  on  brotherhood  in  South 
America  and  Latin  America,  we  will  not  neglect  our 
political,  trade  and  cooperation  relations  with  other 
regions of the globe. On the contrary, our regionalism 
will  provide  a  platform  to  bring  us  closer,  in  a  more 
articulated and proactive way, with other regions of the 
world. 
Our  participation  in  multilateral  forums  will 

increase 
in  coherence.  Global  political  stability 
requires  intergovernmental  organizations  and  strong 
regional  groups  that  are  capable  of  maintaining  that 
multipolar order that is emerging in our world. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Peru for the statement he 
has just made. 

Mr.  Ollanta  Humala  Tasso,  President  of  the 
Republic of Peru, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mrs. Dalia Grybauskaitė, President of 
the Republic of Lithuania 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Lithuania. 

Mrs.  Dalia  Grybauskaitė,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Lithuania,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  Her  Excellency 
Mrs. Dalia  Grybauskaitė,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Lithuania, and to invite her to address the Assembly. 
President  Grybauskaitė:  Twenty  years  ago, 

Lithuania  rejoined  the  international  community  of 
sovereign  States  and  became  a  Member  of  the  United 
Nations. The unique experience of peaceful transition, 
State-building and reforms during the past 20 years has 
made Lithuania stronger and more determined. History 
has  taught  us  that  an  honest  broker  at  the  national, 
to 
11-50871 

15 

looking 
forward 
to  chair 
A/66/PV.16 

bilateral  or  multilateral  level  is  the  key  to  solving 
almost any problem.  

In recent years, we have invested in building our 
capacity  to  become  such  a  broker.  Lithuania  has  just 
concluded  its  chairmanship  of  the  Community  of 
Democracies.  Today,  we  are  proud 
the 
Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe. I 
am  also  confident  that  Lithuania’s  commitment  to 
effective  multilateralism  and  the  fostering  of  dialogue 
and  cooperation  internationally  makes  it  a  deserving 
candidate  for  non-permanent  membership  of 
the 
Security Council. We are ready and determined to run 
for  a  non-permanent  seat  in  the  Security  Council  for 
the 2014-15 term.  

to  Lithuania’s 
Meanwhile, 
presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh 
session next year, I would like to assure members that 
we  will  do  our  utmost  to  contribute  effectively  and 
wisely to the work and principles of the United Nations 
in all of its bodies. 

Just  a  few  months  ago,  women  leaders  from  all 
parts  of  the  world  met  in  Vilnius  to  share  their 
experiences  in  enhancing  democracy  worldwide.  This 
event,  organized  by  Lithuania  as  Chair  of 
the 
Community of Democracies, confirmed  my belief that 
the  involvement  of  women  in  addressing  common 
problems  and  concerns  is  still  very  low.  Therefore, 
Lithuania  strongly  welcomed  resolution  65/283  on 
strengthening  the  role  of  mediation  in  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes,  conflict  prevention  and 
resolution,  proposed  by  Finland  and  Turkey  and 
adopted  by  the  General  Assembly.  I  am  very  pleased 
that  that  resolution  advocates  the  enhanced  role  of 
women  in  peace  mediation.  The  full  involvement  of 
women in conflict resolution, peace talks and decisions 
on post-conflict reconstruction is essential.  

The  same  applies  to  the  protection  of  women  in 
conflict  situations  as  defined  in  the  historic  Security 
Council resolution 1325 (2000) and related resolutions. 
I  would  like  to  announce  that  Lithuania  has  drawn  up 
its 
implementing 
resolution 1325 (2000). 
We  live  in  an  era  of  constant  change.  The 

maintenance  and  improvement  of  our  ability  to  tackle 
traditional  crises  must  be  supplemented  with  an 
increased capacity of the United Nation to address such 
new 
threats  and  challenges  as  energy  security, 
cybercrime, food safety and climate change, to mention 
first  national  action  plan 
for 
special 
to 
attention 
only  a  few.  I  especially  appreciate  and  would  like  to 
stress the importance of the Secretary-General’s strong 
engagement  in  nuclear  safety  and  his  call  to  build  a 
stronger connection between nuclear safety and nuclear 
security.  

In  the  light  of  the  world’s  energy  needs  today, 
nuclear  energy  can  be  an  essential  element  of 
sustainable  global  development,  provided  it  is  used 
with necessary responsibility. I would like to draw the 
Assembly’s 
the  word 
“responsibility”.  Chernobyl  and  Fukushima  are  tragic 
examples, but they teach us very important lessons. It 
is  not  enough  to  rely  only  on  recommendations, 
proposals and encouragement for cooperation when we 
deal  with  nuclear  safety  issues.  I  believe  that  our 
responsibility  is  to  create  strict  legal  international 
imperatives.  We  cannot  allow  any  compromises  on 
safety and security. 

In this respect, the efforts of the United Nations, 
the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  the 
European  Union  and  other  organizations  to  ensure 
nuclear  safety  throughout  the  world  are  critically 
needed today. Lithuania emphasizes the key role of the 
IAEA  in  this  area. We  welcome  the  ambitious  nuclear 
safety  action  plan  that  was  adopted  by  the  IAEA 
General Conference in Vienna today.  

to 
uniform  nuclear  safety  standards  must  be  obligatory. 
Specialized  Agency  missions  for  the  entire  nuclear 
cycle, 
follow-up 
missions,  should  also  become  an  inseparable  part  of 
any nuclear power plant development. Each and every 
nuclear  power  plant,  its  site,  nuclear  technology  and 
even  the  ability  of  the  personnel  to  ensure  safety 
maintenance should be subject to stress tests. Last but 
not  least,  information  about  all  existing  and  planned 
nuclear  projects  must  be  absolutely  transparent  and 
open to public access. 

We believe that the nuclear security summit in the 
Republic of  Korea next year will provide an excellent 
platform  for  discussing  nuclear  safety  and  security 
issues  for  the  whole  world.  With  a  view  to  that 
forthcoming  summit,  Lithuania  is  ready  to  contribute 
to the practical measures set forth in the 2010 Nuclear 
Security Summit Work Plan. 

The  prevention  of  any  type  of  crisis  —  be  it  a 
military  conflict,  a  nuclear  accident  or  a  terrorist 
attack —  is  a  challenge  for  all  of  us.  But  it  is  also  an 
that  strict  adherence 
site  evaluation  and 
Lithuania  believes 
including 
16 

11-50871 


opportunity:  an  opportunity  to  strengthen  the  United 
Nations  leadership,  an  opportunity  to  intensify  our 
joint  work,  an  opportunity  to  promote  dialogue  and 
mediation,  and  even  an  opportunity  to  save  resources 
that can then be devoted to research and development, 
protection of the environment and support for the most 
vulnerable. I invite us all to seize that opportunity for 
the sake of our common safety, security and prosperity, 
which is what we all wish for. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of 
the 
statement she has just made. 

Mrs.  Dalia  Grybauskaitė,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Lithuania,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.  
the  Republic  of  Lithuania  for 


to 
into 
Address by Mr. Robert Mugabe, President of the 
Republic of Zimbabwe 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 
Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Zimbabwe. 

Mr. Robert Mugabe, President of the Republic of 
Zimbabwe,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French): On 
behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Robert  Mugabe,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Zimbabwe, and to invite him to address the Assembly.  

President  Mugabe:  I  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  congratulate  Mr.  Al-Nasser  on  his 
election  as  President  of  the  sixty-sixth  session  of  the 
General  Assembly.  My  delegation  is  confident  that 
under  his  able  leadership  the  General  Assembly  will 
successfully address the pressing issues on the agenda 
of the current session. I also wish to pay tribute to his 
predecessor, Mr. Joseph Deiss, for having successfully 
steered the proceedings of this House during the sixty-
fifth session. 

I wish also to congratulate the Secretary-General, 
Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  on  his  reappointment  for  a  second 
term.  We  remain  hopeful  that  the  Secretary-General 
will  strive  to  shepherd  the  United  Nations  with  an 
open,  transparent  and  inclusive  multilateral  approach. 
Such  an  approach,  I  believe,  would  renew  and  revive 
the  hopes  and  expectations  of  developing  countries  in 
A/66/PV.16
in 
The 
the  Charter 
theme  “The  role  of  mediation 
the  efficacy  of  this  world  body.  Zimbabwe  places  its 
hopes in a United Nations that recognizes the equality 
of  sovereign  States  as  enshrined  in  the  founding 
Charter. 

I want to express my heartfelt congratulations to 
the  Republic  of  South  Sudan  on  its  attainment  of 
independence  and  its  subsequent  admission  as  the 
193rd Member of the United Nations family. As we all 
congratulate this new nation, Zimbabwe calls upon the 
international  community  to  render  all  the  necessary 
support to its Government and its people in tackling the 
numerous  development  challenges  that  lie  ahead  of 
them.  Zimbabwe  stands  ready  to  make  its  modest 
contribution to that end. 

the 
settlement of disputes by peaceful means” is most apt. 
But how do we, the United Nations Members, measure 
up  in  relation  to  it  in  our  activities  here  at  the  United 
Nations  and  out  there,  in  the  real  world?  It  is  my 
principled  view  that  we  must  be  duty-and  honour-
bound  to  operationalize  the  principles  upon  which  the 
Charter of the United Nations is based. We must not be 
guilty  of  manipulating 
to  serve  our 
particular  or  sectional  designs  and  ambitions.  The 
Charter  is  our  set  of  commandments  that  must  be 
strictly  obeyed  by  each  and  every  Member 
if 
international and regional peace is to be maintained.  

We  cannot  honestly  say  today  that  this  is  the 
position  with  regard  to  NATO  States  versus  Libya. 
Whatever  political  disturbances  might  have  first 
occurred  in  Benghazi,  the  process  of  mediation  and 
peaceful negotiations was never given full play. It was 
deliberately  and  blatantly  excluded  from  positively 
influencing  developments.  There  was  quick  resort  to 
invoking  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter,  with  a  gross, 
deliberate  misinterpretation  of 
the 
mandate originally given NATO to oversee and protect 
civilians. 

Bilateral hatreds and quarrels or ulterior motives 
must not be allowed to creep into the consideration of 
matters pertaining to threats to international peace and 
security, or even to the principle of the responsibility to 
protect. 

We have yet to be convinced that the involvement 
of  the  mighty  Powers  in  Libya’s  affairs  has  not 
hindered the advent of the process of peace, democracy 
and  prosperity  in  that  sister  African  country.  Our 
African Union would never have presumed to impose a 
the  scope  of 
11-50871 

17 

A/66/PV.16 

leadership  on  the  fraternal  people  of  Libya,  as  NATO 
countries have illegally sought to do, and, in fact, have 
done. At the very least, the African Union would have 
wished  to  join  those  principled  members  of  this  body 
who  preferred  an  immediate  ceasefire  and  peaceful 
dialogue in Libya. The African Union was and remains 
fully  seized  of  this  crisis  and  will  spare  no  effort  in 
working  to  fully  complement  the  United  Nations  so 
that  peace  may  return  to  Libya  and  its  tormented 
people. We wish that process Godspeed. 

The  newly  minted  principle  of  the  responsibility 
to protect should not be twisted to provide cover for its 
premeditated abuse in violating the sacred international 
principle  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  non-interference 
in  the  domestic  affairs  of  States,  because  to  do  so 
amounts  to  an  act  of  aggression  and  causes  the 
destabilization  of  a  sovereign  State.  Moreover,  to 
selectively  and  arbitrarily  apply  that  principle  serves 
merely  to  undermine  its  general  acceptability.  Indeed, 
more than other States, all five permanent members of 
the Security Council bear a huge responsibility in this 
regard  for  ensuring  that  their  historical  privilege  is 
used more to protect the United Nations Charter than to 
breach  it,  as  is  happening  currently  in  Libya  through 
the  blatantly  illegal,  brutal,  callous  and  murderous 
NATO bombings. There we see NATO bombing places, 
seeking  out,  hunting  and  hounding  the  children  of 
Al-Qadhafi.  Have  the  alleged  sins  of  the  father  now 
been  visited  on  the  sons?  Have  the  children  lost  their 
right  to  life?  They  are  no  longer  human  beings;  they 
are  being  hunted  every  day.  Or  is  it  because  each  of 
them is no longer worth the price of a barrel of oil? 

After  more  than  20,000  NATO  bombing  sorties 
that  targeted  Libyan  towns,  including  Tripoli,  there  is 
now an unbelievable and most disgraceful scramble by 
some  NATO  countries  for  Libyan  oil,  indicating 
thereby that the real motive for their aggression against 
Libya  was  to  control  and  own  its  abundant  fuel 
resources. What a shame.  
Yesterday,  it  was  Iraq,  and  Bush  and  Blair  were 

the  liars  and  aggressors  as  they  made  unfounded 
allegations  of  possession  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction. This time, it is the NATO countries that are 
the  liars  and  aggressors,  as  they  make  similarly 
unfounded  allegations  of  destruction  of  civilian  lives 
by Al-Qadhafi. 

When we in Zimbabwe sought to redress the ills 
of  colonialism  and  racism  by  fully  acquiring  our 
signatures 
have 
recently  more 
than 
demonstrated 
natural  resources,  mainly  our  land  and  minerals,  we 
were and still are subjected to unparalleled vilification 
and pernicious economic sanctions, the reasons — lies 
again  —  alleged  to  be  violations  of  the  rule  of  law, 
human  rights  and  democracy,  which  never,  never 
occurred.  My  people  have  condemned  these  illegal 
two  million 
sanctions,  and 
protesters’ 
their 
antipathy  for  them.  We  thank  the  Southern  Africa 
Development  Community  (SADC)  and  the  African 
Union for supporting us and demanding the immediate 
removal of the illegal sanctions. 

We  in  Africa  are  also  duly  concerned  about  the 
activities  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC), 
which  seems  to  exist  only  for  alleged  offenders  from 
the developing world, the majority of them Africans. A 
blind eye is routinely turned to leaders of the powerful 
Western  States  guilty  of  international  crimes,  such  as 
Bush  and  Blair.  Such  selective  justice  has  eroded  the 
credibility of the ICC on the African continent. 

My  country  continues  to  work  with  others  for  a 
revitalized General Assembly. However, our ambitions 
extend  to  the  need  to  reform  the  Security  Council  as 
well. Africa’s  call  for  at  least  two  permanent  seats  on 
the Security Council for its members has been constant 
for  decades.  Africa  cannot  remain  the  only  region 
without  permanent  membership 
the  Security 
Council. 

The  current  global  economic  crisis  and  the 
attendant  financial  crisis  compounds  the  plight  of  the 
most vulnerable, that is, the developing countries. The 
present 
financial 
architecture  has  to  be  reformed  and  made  to  respond 
timeously  to  the  real  needs  of  all  our  peoples.  The 
situation challenges the ability of our developing world 
to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. 

As  we  celebrate  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the 
Durban  Declaration  and  Programme  of Action  against 
racism, xenophobia and other related social ills, let us 
all  recommit  ourselves  to  fighting  and  defeating  these 
evils. 

My country fully supports the right of the gallant 
people of Palestine to statehood and membership in the 
Organization.  The  United  Nations  must  become 
credible by welcoming into its bosom all those whose 
right  to  attain  sovereign  independence  and  freedom 
from  occupation  and  colonialism  is  legitimate.  Let  us 
all accept Palestine as a legitimate State and a Member 
in 
international 
economic 
and 
18 

11-50871 

island  States 
the  very  existence  of  small 


of  this  body.  Similarly,  the  tormented  people  of  the 
Sahrawi  Arab  Democratic  Republic  must  not  be 
forgotten.  We  call  for  immediate  progress  in  the 
engagements for a solution to their long-running saga. 

The  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to 
be held later this year, is a pivotal occasion from which 
we  should  emerge  with  agreed  measures  to  address 
matters  of  climate  change  and  how  to  mitigate  threats 
to 
in 
particular,  and  to  the  coastal  regions  of  many  heavily 
populated nations. Zimbabwe will be  fully engaged in 
those negotiations. 

Let  me  reiterate  my  country’s  full  belief  in  the 
aspirations  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations. We must all resist any abuse to which it may 
be exposed through the unwelcome behaviour of a few. 
My  country  celebrates  the  UN-Women  entity,  as  it 
addresses the position of more than half of humankind 
in all our countries. 

The  African  Union  must  not  be  undermined; 
rather,  it  should  be  allowed  to  complement  the  efforts 
of  the  United  Nations  for  peace  and  security  on  the 
continent.  Zimbabwe  is  a  peaceful  member  of  the 
the  Common  Market  for 
African  Union,  SADC, 
Eastern  and  Southern  Africa, 
the  Non-Aligned 
Movement and many other international economic and 
trade organizations, and thus desires to continue to play 
its part in creating a peaceful environment in the world. 
The  United  Nations  can  count  on  the  unqualified 
support  of  Zimbabwe  as  required,  even  if  only  in  our 
modest way. 

Assembly every success. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of 
the 
statement he has just made. 

I  wish  the  sixty-sixth  session  of  the  General 
Mr. Robert Mugabe, President of the Republic of 
Zimbabwe,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
the  Republic  of  Zimbabwe  for 
from 


Address by Mr. Desiré Delano Bouterse, President of 
the Republic of Suriname 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the 
President of the Republic of Suriname. 
to 
to 
in 
to  address 
invite  him 
Mr.  Desiré  Delano  Bouterse,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Suriname,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Desiré Delano Bouterse, President of the Republic 
of  Suriname,  and 
the 
Assembly. 
President  Bouterse:  Allow  me  to  join  previous 

congratulating  Ambassador  Nassir 
speakers 
Abdulaziz Al-Nasser on his election as President of the 
General  Assembly  at 
its  sixty-sixth  session.  We 
welcome his efforts to promote the goals of the United 
Nations  and  to  act  as  a  bridge  between  the  developed 
and  the  developing  world. We  pledge  our  full  support 
and cooperation as he steers the work of this session. 

I  would  also  like  to  thank  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss  for 
having  guided  us  with  much  efficiency  through  the 
proceedings  of  the  past  session.  We  wish  him  well  in 
his  future  endeavours.  To  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon, who has been elected once again at the helm 
of our Organization, we continue to extend our support 
and cooperation. 

Republic of South Sudan, to the family of nations. 

founded  on 
the 
fundamental belief that collective action can serve our 
collective  security.  That  steadfast  principle  is  even 
more  essential  in  addressing  the  many  challenges  that 
threaten world peace today. In Ambassador Al-Nasser’s 
inaugural  statement  as  President,  he  referred  to  the 
and 
enormous 
environmental  challenges 
(see 
A/65/PV.103).  

I could not agree with him more. Pandemics such 
as  AIDS,  malaria  and  non-communicable  diseases; 
threats 
terrorism,  weapons  of  mass 
destruction,  human  trafficking,  the  illicit  trade  in  and 
use of small arms and light weapons and the illicit drug 
trade;  and  the  risks  posed  by  climate  change  and  the 
continuing  vulnerability  of  our  women  and  youth  all 
call upon us to deepen our cooperation and strengthen 
our international institutions. 
Although  some  citizens  in  developing  countries 

realization  of 
enjoy  good 
sustainable  development  in  many  of  those  countries 
We  welcome  our  newest  Member  State,  the 
The  United  Nations  was 
economic 
the  world 
living  standards, 
political, 
social, 
related 
to 
facing 
A/66/PV.16
11-50871 

19 
the 

of 
and 
solidarity 
compassion, 
for  current  and 
A/66/PV.16 

remains  unattainable.  Achieving  social  justice  for  all 
represents  the  most  basic  humanitarian  challenge  of 
our times. In order to move the world further along the 
path 
shared 
responsibility, that goal deserves our highest attention. 

As  the  world  becomes  more  intertwined,  the 
impact  of  climate  change  in  one  country  or  region  is 
affecting the prosperity and security of others as well. 
As responsible citizens of this precious planet, we must 
stand united behind the collective goal to preserve our 
world 
future  generations.  Our 
understanding  of  climate  change  suggests  that  our 
planet will undergo considerable changes over the next 
50 years, impacting all areas of society. 

For  Suriname,  with  its  low-lying  coastline,  that 
means  a  vulnerable  exposure  to  a  rising  sea  level, 
risking  inundation  of  our  fertile  soil  and  freshwater 
reservoirs. With  80  per  cent  of  Suriname’s  population 
living  in  the  coastal  area,  our  ability  to  produce  food 
and guarantee food security will be in serious jeopardy. 
For countries such as ours, it is therefore of paramount 
importance that the international community honour its 
commitments, realize the speedy implementation of the 
Cancún  Agreements  and  honour  its  pledges  to  the 
Special  Climate  Change  Fund  and  the  Adaptation 
Fund. 

We  cannot  afford  for  the  upcoming  United 
Nations  Climate  Change  Conference  in  Durban  to  fail 
to produce concrete agreements and targets on reducing 
emissions,  which  would  lead  to  a  halt  or  drastically 
reduce  the  rising  temperature  on  the  planet.  We  owe 
that  to  our  present  and  we  owe  that  to  our  future 
generations.  We  call  upon  all  parties  concerned  to 
reach an agreement. 
Suriname now stands at a crossroads in its efforts 

to  attain  sustainable  development.  We  resolve  to 
promote  an 
investment-friendly  environment,  with 
prudent fiscal and monetary policies that are  aimed at 
securing  macroeconomic  stability  in  the  medium  and 
long terms. Allow me to outline the main objectives of 
our  development  strategy.  We  intend  to  maintain  real 
economic  growth  and  raise  per  capita  income,  while 
simultaneously  promoting  a  more  equitable  income 
distribution. We will further develop the mining sector 
as  the  engine  of  economic  growth  in  the  short  and 
medium  terms.  We  plan  to  move  away  from  a 
the 
commodity-based 
diversification  of  our 
increased 
focus  on 
and 
and 
economy 
economy 
such 
current 
Despite 
outlook 
remains 
economic 
international 
the  objectives  of 
investment  in  other  sectors,  such  as  the  agro-industry, 
tourism, services, transport, infrastructure and housing. 
We will invest in our human capital, which is our most 
important  resource.  In  that  context,  Suriname  will 
strengthen  its  national  capacities  to  enhance  our  the 
utilization  of  our  abundant  natural  resources  for  the 
benefit of its people. 

We are well aware that we cannot move forward 
in  isolation.  We  recognize  the  strategic  interest  of 
international  cooperation 
to  complement  national 
development  policies.  In  that  process,  we  are  strongly 
committed 
regional 
organizations  as  the  Caribbean  Community  and  the 
Union of South American Nations (UNASUR). 

financial 
crisis —  which  is  not  of  our  making  —  Suriname’s 
present 
favourable. 
Improper  management  of  the  world  crisis,  however, 
will  have  negative  consequences  on  our  economy. We 
are pleased with the UNASUR proposal for a complete 
restructuring of the international financial system, with 
the  participation  of  all  nations  in  the  decision-making 
process.  The  time  has  come  to  bring  an  end  to  the 
practice  of  decision-making  by  only  a  few,  which  has 
had  disastrous  consequences  for  the  majority  of  the 
peoples of the world. For  countries such as Suriname, 
with  small,  open  economies,  it  remains  of  vital 
importance 
the  path  of  prudent 
macroeconomic policies and economic diversification. 
sustainable 

that 
development  can  be  attained  only 
in  a 
safe 
environment,  it  is  crucial  to  preserve  international 
peace and security. Armed conflicts, interference in the 
domestic  affairs  of  States,  terrorism  and  transnational 
crime  —  including  drug-related  crime  and  the  illegal 
traffic  in  and  use  of  small  arms  and  light  weapons  — 
only derail our efforts to address the challenges that we 
are faced with today. 

the  General 
Assembly, we are once again called on to reflect on the 
spirit  of  our  Charter  as  it  relates  to  the  assurance  of 
international  peace,  security  and  development.  The 
theme  for  this  session,  “The  role  of  mediation  in  the 
settlement  of  disputes  by  peaceful  means”,  is  most 
fitting, since mediation can and should become one of 
the most effective instruments in international conflict 
resolution.  The  failure  to  recognize  and  apply  the 
principles  of  equity  and 
international 
the  sixty-sixth  session  of 
to  continue  on 
understood 
justice 
in 
Since 
it 
is 
to 
the 
At 
20 

11-50871 
brutal 
forms 
extreme  poverty, 
about 
increasingly 


relations has resulted in unacceptable situations. Those 
further 
have  brought 
marginalization, 
of 
criminality and destruction of the environment. 

At the same time, we increasingly witness acts of 
war and intervention in many parts of the world. Such 
armed  conflicts are sometimes preceded by a mandate 
of  our  very  own  Security  Council,  with  disregard  for 
the consequences of destruction, loss of life and human 
suffering. Suriname wishes to draw urgent attention to 
the  stipulations  of  Article  33  in  Chapter  VI  of  the 
United Nations Charter, which in our opinion have not 
been  consistently  applied.  That  failure  has  resulted  in 
an unnecessary continuation of violence on the African 
continent. 

I  also  express  concern  regarding  the  situation  in 
Somalia,  where  severe  famine  has  taken  the  lives  of 
tens  of  thousands  and  continues  to  be  a  threat  to 
thousands  more.  We  must  ask  ourselves 
the 
architects of the acts of war on that same continent — 
under the pretext of the protection of human rights — 
could not better have used those precious resources in 
the  fight  against  famine.  Furthermore,  the  Security 
Council  should  be  a  forum  for  dialogue  and  action, 
fully 
future  global 
challenges,  and  should  not  be  permitted  to  bypass  the 
efforts of regional institutions that aim to promote the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes.  In  particular,  when 
outbursts  of  violence  occur,  peaceful  efforts  should 
never be hindered or neglected. 

On  a  special  note,  it  is  of  great  concern  that 
approximately  18  months 
the  disastrous 
earthquake in Haiti, the recovery efforts on that island 
nation  are  stagnating.  We  therefore  call  upon  the 
international  community  to  honour  its  pledges  and 
continue to support the efforts of the Haitian people to 
reconstruct their homeland. 

Suriname  reaffirms  the  right  of  the  Palestinian 
people  to  self-determination,  including  the  right  to  an 
independent  State  of  Palestine,  as  endorsed  by  the 
General  Assembly  in  December  2010  (see  resolution 
65/202).  Suriname  has  responded  to  the  plight  of  the 
Palestinian  people  and  has  taken  the  decision  to 
recognize  Palestine  as  a  sovereign  State,  worthy  of 
becoming  a  full-fledged  Member  of 
this  world 
Organization. 
We  also 

persistence  of 
reiterate  our  concern  about 
the 
the 
the  economic, 
to  current  and 
imposition  of 
if 
responsive 
after 
A/66/PV.16
commercial and financial embargo against Cuba. Those 
measures  continue  to  cause  hardship  for  the  Cuban 
to  have  adverse  effects  on  the  just 
people  and 
development  of 
that  country.  How  many  more 
resolutions  need  to  be  adopted  before  justice  can  be 
done for the people of Cuba? Suriname once more calls 
on  the  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  to 
vehemently reject the unilaterally imposed embargo on 
this nation. 

In closing, the provisions and the spirit enshrined 
in the Charter of the United Nations remain valid as an 
instrument  for  promoting  international  peace,  security 
and development. 

As  Members,  we  have  the  moral  obligation  to 
continue  to  live  up  to  the  provisions  of  our  Charter, 
taking  into  consideration  the  demands  of  changing 
times in a changing world. 

reign among all nations. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of 
the 
statement he has just made. 

We  must,  however,  ensure  that  unity  and  justice 
Mr.  Desiré  Delano  Bouterse,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Suriname,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
the  Republic  of  Suriname  for 


the 
the 
Address by Mr. Ali Bongo Ondimba, President of the 
Gabonese Republic 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Gabonese Republic. 

Mr.  Ali  Bongo  Ondimba,  President  of 
Gabonese  Republic,  was  escorted 
into 
General Assembly Hall. 

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Ali 
Bongo  Ondimba,  President  of  the  Gabonese  Republic, 
and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Bongo  Ondimba  (spoke  in  French): 

Allow  me,  first  of  all,  to  warmly  congratulate  the 
President  on  his  election.  His  human  qualities,  along 
with his experience, will be invaluable throughout this 
sixty-sixth  session  of  the  General  Assembly.  To  his 
predecessor,  His  Excellency  Joseph  Deiss,  I  wish  to 
11-50871 

21 
This  firm  belief,  which  I  proposed 
A/66/PV.16 

express  our  gratitude 
for  his  extremely  skilful 
presidency. I also take this opportunity to congratulate 
the  Secretary-General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon,  on  his  unanimous  re-election,  and  reiterate 
Gabon’s full confidence in him. 

Allow me to recall that Gabon has always striven 
to  contribute  to  peace  and  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
conflicts  through  dialogue  and  mediation.  We  firmly 
believe  in  the  link  between peace  and  security,  on  the 
one  hand,  and  development  and  democracy,  on  the 
other.  Because  the  people  of  Gabon  enjoy  peace  at 
home, as well as with their neighbours and the world as 
a  whole,  we  are  able  to  achieve  new  development 
goals. 

to  my 
compatriots  when 
I  was  elected  as  head  of 
Government, lies at the heart of Gabon’s future vision 
for  development.  Since  my  last  statement  before  the 
General  Assembly  a  year  ago,  my  Government  has 
moved to take action. We are humbled by the scale of 
the  task  and  the  time  required  to  ensure  further 
progress. 
We  are  already  building  strategic  infrastructure, 

including preparations for the African Cup of Nations, 
which  Gabon  will  host 
together  with 
Equatorial  Guinea.  We  are  also  moving  forward  with 
industrial  processing  projects,  beginning  with  wood, 
manganese  and  gas.  In  addition,  we  are  also  making 
progress with policies to support the service sector. In 
terms of agriculture, we intend to develop agro-industries, 
and to support food production and sustainable fishing, 
which are both so valuable for our food security. 

Finally,  we  are  working  on  a  daily  basis  to 
implement  our  steadfast  commitment  to  sustainable 
development in the context of a green Gabon. 

With regard to international peace and security in 
Africa and throughout the world, Gabon has reiterated 
its  commitment  and  has  contributed  according  to  its 
means. Since 2010, we have had a non-permanent seat 
on  the  Security  Council.  Last  June,  Gabon  held  the 
Presidency of that body, a role that we discharged with 
responsibility and commitment. 
Turning to Côte d’Ivoire, Gabon has endorsed the 

actions 
the  United  Nations,  aimed  at 
respecting  the  will  of  the  Ivorian  people  and  ensuring 
the return to a peaceful political environment. We must 
now  support  the  efforts  of  the  new  Government  to 
taken  by 

achieve  national  reconciliation  and  reconstruction  in 
our sister country. 

With  regard  to  Libya,  Gabon  has  recognized  the 
National  Transitional  Council  and  welcomes  Libya’s 
return  to  the  African  Union  and  to  the  international 
community  at  the  United  Nations.  In  the  Security 
Council, along with the other two African members, we 
approved resolution 1973 (2011). It was incumbent on 
the  international  community  to  prevent  the  bloodbath 
that  threatened  to  take  place  in  Benghazi.  We  also 
needed to cut short a conflict that posed great danger to 
the  civilian  population.  Today,  it  is  important  that 
Libya  emerge  from  this  crisis  in  order  to  begin 
reconciliation for all Libyans and the reconstruction of 
the  country.  It  is  with  this  aim  in  mind  that  we  took 
part in the conference of friends of Libya in Paris. We 
welcome  the  role  played  by  the  United  Nations.  It  is 
important to work together with the African Union and 
other  stakeholders.  We  are  ready  to  contribute  to  the 
efforts of the international community in Libya. 

South  Sudan  has  also  joined  the  international 
community. Gabon congratulates the authorities of that 
newborn  sister  country  and  assures  it  of  our  support. 
We  welcome  the  clear  determination  of  Sudan  and 
South Sudan to seek a peaceful way to settle their post-
referendum issues. 

In Somalia, we must act resolutely because of the 
serious  and  urgent  nature  of  the  situation.  Everything 
must be done to deliver humanitarian aid to those who 
need  it  in  the  towns  and  villages  in  Somalia  itself. 
Gabon  responded  to  the  appeal  of  the  international 
community and has made a contribution. 

The  issue  of  Palestine  affects  us  all,  so  far-
reaching  are  its  implications  for  peace  in  the  Middle 
East and throughout the world. It is important to stress 
that we all share the goal, which is the existence of two 
States, Palestine and Israel. On this question, I wish to 
express  my  desire,  as  I  did  here  in  this  Hall  last  year 
and do this year with even greater hope, namely, to see 
soon  a  Palestinian  State  that  exists  in  peace  alongside 
Israel,  within  secure  and  recognized  borders.  The 
Israeli and Palestinian peoples, both friends of Gabon, 
aspire to live in peace and security. The peaceful future 
of  these  two  peoples  is  essential  for  the  future  of  the 
Middle East and for peace in the world. 

Syria  represents  a  new  situation  that  requires 
efforts on all our parts. We hope that the Arab League’s 
in  2012 
22 

11-50871 
throughout 
As  you  know,  Gabon 
this  sixty-sixth  session  of 


mediation efforts will ensure a peaceful and democratic 
outcome as a matter of urgency. 

Gabon will be particularly attentive to the priority 
issues 
the 
General  Assembly.  Gabon  is,  of  course,  in  favour  of 
reform  of  the  Security  Council  and  reform  of  the 
United Nations system in general. We must enable our 
Organization  to  better  discharge  its  mission  of  peace, 
cooperation and justice throughout the world.  

Africa  should,  in  a  manner  that  remains  to  be 
determined,  have  a  permanent  seat  in  the  Security 
Council.  Africa’s  voice  must  be  heard  more  on  the 
international  stage.  This  expectation  on  the  part  of 
Africa  and  even  other  regions  of  the  world  is  part  of 
our  aspirations  for  a  true  democratization  of  global 
political and economic governance.  

fully  committed, 
is 
including within the framework of the United Nations, 
to  protecting  the  environment  and  combating  global 
warming.  Since  I  assumed  the  highest  office  in  my 
country,  Gabon  has  taken  major  steps  to  reduce  its 
carbon  dioxide  emissions  and  to  increase  the  carbon 
sequestration  rate  of  our  forests.  My  Government  has 
committed  itself  to  modern  ways  of  preserving  our 
tropical forests and biodiversity within our 13 national 
parks, which cover a little more than 11 per cent of our 
territory.  Gabon  has 
launched  an  extensive 
campaign  to  prevent  the  pillaging  of  its  natural 
resources and the poaching of its protected species. We 
are  striving  to  develop  our  timber  industry,  while 
preserving  the  ecological  wealth  of  our  immense 
tropical forest.  

We  should  also  recall  that  the  issues  of  the 
environment  and  international  security  will  face  us  in 
the  future.  At  the  coming  United  Nations  Climate 
Change Conference in Durban, in South Africa, we will 
have  to  deal  with  that  complex  of  issues  in  our  work 
and  bear  in  mind  the  link  that  exists  between  the 
environment and international security.  

Finally, we are closely following the efforts under 
way  to  delineate  the  limits  of  the  continental  shelf. 
Given  the  potential  of  undersea  resources,  we  should 
ensure  that  their  future  exploitation  does  not  lead  to 
natural disasters. 

the 
economic crisis on countries of the South, particularly 
in  terms  of  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
is  concerned  by 
impact  of 
Gabon 
thus 
the 
A/66/PV.16
to 
the 
aimed 
funds 
before 
efforts 
challenge 
it  agreed 
under  way 
are  mobilized 
Goals.  The  impact  of  the  international  financial  crisis 
on  public  investment  in  basic  social  sectors,  such  as 
education,  health  and  the  provision  of  drinking  water 
and  electricity,  is  constraining  our  efforts  to  promote 
human development.  

Despite  significant  progress  in  implementing  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  the  deadline  of  2015 
remains  for  many  countries, 
including  Gabon,  a 
difficult 
to  meet.  The  Millennium 
Development  Goals  cannot  be  achieved  unless 
additional 
2015. 
Development  assistance  is  stagnating,  and  I  see  real 
concern  as  a  result  of  the  situation.  The  international 
community  must  make  an  effort  to  live  up  to  the 
commitments 
in  Monterey,  Doha, 
Gleneagles,  Paris  and  Accra.  We  need  a  new  global 
partnership for development to ensure lasting economic 
growth in our countries. Aid should be accompanied by 
more  direct  investment  and  more  fair  and  equitable 
trade.  To  mobilize  new  resources,  we  encourage  and 
support 
at 
institutionalizing  innovative  mechanisms  for  funding 
development. 

The President of the General Assembly has asked 
us to discuss the issue of mediation. This issue is at the 
heart  of  the  very  raison  d’être  of  our  Organization, 
which  is  to  guarantee  peace  and  security  throughout 
the world.  

Mediation  and  conflict  prevention  must  remain 
our primary means of collective action. We all feel the 
need, 
to  achieve  greater 
democracy,  a  world  where  economic  and  cultural 
exchanges  are  better  balanced  and  where  crisis 
prevention, whether it be of political or other crises, is 
better  organized,  with, 
in  particular,  better  early 
warning systems and mediation.  

Gabon is historically attached to mediation and to 
the peaceful settlement of disputes. This approach has 
always been one of the bases of our relations with our 
neighbouring  and  brotherly  countries  in  the  Central 
African  subregion  and  has  played  a  part  in  our 
contribution to the resolution of conflicts in Africa. My 
country  will  never  depart  from  that  path,  in  particular 
at the very moment when Africa is striving to achieve 
political and economic integration.  

Our  commitment  to  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
conflicts is also part of the commitments that we have 
undertaken under a number of conventions and treaties 
in  a  complex  world, 
11-50871 

23 
to 


A/66/PV.16 

on  human  rights,  humanitarian  law,  the  promotion  of 
democracy  and  the  rule  of  law,  and  international 
cooperation and solidarity.  

We  are  well  aware  that  mediation  has  its  limits, 
and the international community must always be ready, 
if  necessary,  to  consider  other  ways  of  ensuring 
conflict  prevention  and  conflict  resolution.  Conflicts 
will  be  more  complex  and  multidimensional  in  the 
future.  Economic  crises,  environmental  crises  and 
aspirations  for  democracy  and  freedoms,  which  are 
taking  on  new  forms,  will  worsen  tensions,  and  we 
must follow these developments closely. 

Gabon will continue to support and contribute to 
the mediation efforts and good offices of the Secretary-
General  on  several  different  fronts  and  in  the  various 
areas  of  the  world  where  there  are  conflicts.  Those 
efforts  are  essential.  They  must  be  enhanced  by 
increased  resources  and  be  carried  out  in  an  impartial 
way,  with  full  respect  for  the  sovereignty  of  States.  It 
should  also  be  said  that  the  participation  of  women  is 
important  in  all  aspects  of  mediation,  since  they  are 
always  the  first  victims  of  conflicts,  along  with 
children.  

Finally,  the  United  Nations  must  enhance  its 
cooperation  with  all  the  other  actors  playing  a  role  in 
this area. In Africa, the African Union, which continues 
to  enhance  its  mediation  capacities,  is  an  essential 
player. 

I would like to conclude by recalling the motto of 
my  vision  for  our  society  aimed  at  making  Gabon  an 
emerging  country:  peace,  development  and  sharing. 
The  climate  of  peace  and  stability  that  Gabon  is  now 
enjoying will be invaluable as our country enters a new 
phase  of  rapid  modernization.  More  than  ever  before, 
Gabon  wishes  to  cooperate  with  other  countries.  We 
are  deeply  committed  to  peace.  The  people  of  Gabon 
are therefore ready to exchange, create and build with 
the rest of the world. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Gabonese  Republic  for  the  statement 
he has just made. 

Mr.  Ali  Bongo  Ondimba,  President  of 
Gabonese  Republic,  was  escorted 
from 
General Assembly Hall.  
the 
the 

24 

Address by Mr. Joseph Kabila Kabange, President of 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo. 

Mr.  Joseph  Kabila  Kabange,  President  of  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Joseph  Kabila  Kabange,  President  of 
the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  and  to  invite  him 
to address the Assembly.  
President  Kabila  Kabange  (spoke  in  French): 

Allow  me,  at  the  outset,  to  commend  the  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  and  his  whole  team  for  their 
election  to  the  Bureau  of  the  General Assembly  at  its 
sixty-sixth  session.  We  would  like  to  express  to  his 
predecessor,  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss,  our  gratitude  for  the 
excellent  work  he  accomplished,  work 
that  has 
benefited our Organization. I also congratulate Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon, the Secretary-General, on the renewal of his 
mandate. 

Taking  the  floor  from  this  rostrum  has  always 
been for me a special moment and a happy occasion to 
recall some current issues of importance to my country 
and the world. This moment is all the more special as it 
comes at a time when the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo  is  preparing  to  hold  general  elections,  the 
second since those of 2006. 

full 
significance of this key period for the Congo, because 
it  confirms  a  definitive  break  from  the  spiral  of 
violence  and  instability  that  has  characterized  the 
country in recent decades. It is seen as a decisive phase 
in  that,  more  than  ever,  it  commits  the  Congolese 
people to a lasting democratic culture.  

Despite  multifaceted  challenges  punctuating  the 
electoral  process,  the  National  Independent  Electoral 
Commission,  our  people  and  their  Government  are 
doing  their  utmost  to  hold  transparent  and  credible 
elections 
in  a  calm  climate.  The  elections  are 
ultimately  proof  of  a  return  to  the  effective  peace  for 
which  Congolese  men  and  women  have  yearned. 
Today, peace and security reign throughout the national 
is  appropriate 
to  grasp 
the 
Thus, 
it 
11-50871 
the 


territory.  The  Republic’s  institutions  are  all  in  place 
and operating normally. 

As  peace  and  security  in  my  country  have  been 
recovered, 
the  United  Nations  presence  merits 
reconsideration. Indeed, the role of the United Nations 
Organization  Stabilization  Mission  in  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo (MONUSCO) must necessarily 
adapt  its  vision  and  its  action  on  the  ground.  In  that 
phase  of  consolidation,  MONUSCO  must  increasingly 
move  beyond 
the  strict  format  of  peacekeeping 
operations in order to assist the country in its efforts to 
develop and to relaunch the economy. 

Enormous  progress  has  certainly  been  made  in 
the  areas  of  peace  and  security.  However,  many  other 
challenges remain, and the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo  is  determined  to  meet  them.  The  mobilization 
and support of all should be along those lines. I refer in 
particular 
following  areas  of  concerns: 
strengthening  the  capacity  of  the  security  sector,  the 
army, the police, the judiciary and penitentiary systems 
to  ensure  the  rights  and  security  of  citizens  and  to 
stabilize the country and the region; the increasing and 
orderly  return  of  displaced  persons  to  their  places  of 
origin and of refugees to their respective countries; the 
ongoing  demobilization  and  reintegration  of  child 
soldiers  leaving  armed  groups;  effective  control  over 
the  exploitation  of  our  natural  resources;  and  building 
good-neighbourly relations with the States around us.  

In  that  regard,  after  several  years  of  conflict  the 
countries  in  the  region  have  reached  the  conclusion 
that  war 
the  worst  enemy  of  man  and  his 
development.  It  exacerbates  problems  rather 
than 
resolves  them.  That  explains  their  common  will  and 
our efforts to seek peace at all costs. That is the reality 
today.  The  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  is  at 
peace  with  all  its  neighbours.  Now  is  the  time  for 
reconstruction and development. 

In that regard, I would like to welcome the recent 
entry  of  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan  as  a  Member 
State of our universal Organization and to convey to its 
people  my  most  heartfelt  wishes  for  peace,  happiness 
and prosperity. 
Another  challenge  that  my  country  must  face  is 

that  of  maintaining  economic  growth.  Despite  a 
difficult  international  climate,  today  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  shows  a  positive  growth  rate 
above  the  African  average,  and  it  will  continue  that 
its 
momentum 
the  efforts 
to  harness 
thanks 
to 
to 
is 
A/66/PV.16
that 
incorporates  equally 
aspirations  of  developing 
economy.  However,  it  is  also  true  that  such  growth 
remains  dependent,  to  a  large  degree,  on  the  global 
economy. 

Having spoken about the situation in my country, 
I would now like to address some big issues of current 
concern.  
The  United  Nations  has  responded  to  a  good 

number of challenges that justified its establishment at 
the  end  of  the  Second  World  War.  In  66  years,  the 
world  has  changed  greatly,  and  the  pace  of  change 
increases every day.  

A  great  institution  such  as  ours  cannot  remain 
static while its setting constantly changes. The time has 
come to envisage adapting the Organization to current 
realities  so  as  to  improve  its  effectiveness  and,  above 
all, to bolster confidence among Member States. To do 
that,  it  must  make  substantial  progress  in  the  major 
areas  of  a  reform  too  long  awaited,  whether  the 
revitalization  of  the  General  Assembly,  reform  of  the 
Security  Council  or  the  role  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Council,  which  needs  to  be  strengthened.  A 
the 
Security  Council 
legitimate 
countries, 
particularly  those  of  Africa,  would  certainly  be  more 
legitimate. 

Furthermore, the issues of climate change and the 
protection  of  nature  demand  a  changed  approach  that 
takes into account the aspirations of all peoples. That is 
an  area  where  it  is  prudent  to  demonstrate  a  spirit  of 
compromise and solidarity in the interest, of course, of 
all countries.  

That  is  also  the  case  for  the  crucial  goals  of 
disarmament  and  the  non-proliferation  of  weapons  of 
mass  destruction,  which  remain  hostage  to  the  policy 
of  double  standards,  such  as  discriminatory  practices 
and  non-compliance  with  commitments  made, 
in 
particular by certain nuclear Powers. 

The  fight  against  impunity  and  against  human 
rights  violations,  which  is  subjected  to  a  selective 
approach 
implementation  of 
international humanitarian law, gives rise to legitimate 
doubts about the exploitation of these noble causes for 
political  ends.  Our  Organization  must  address  these 
issues. 

The  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  believes 
that  the  Israeli-Palestinian  question  should  be  a  major 
concern  for  our  universal  Organization.  The  United 
the  partisan 
and 
11-50871 

25 

A/66/PV.16 

Nations should unflaggingly continue its efforts to find 
an equitable solution that bears in mind the legitimate 
interests of two peoples, each with the right to live in 
peace  and  security.  The  Middle  East  cannot  recover 
peace and stability without a fair and lasting settlement 
of this question.  

I  would  not  continue  my  remarks  without 
mentioning the more active cooperation that we would 
like  to  see  between  the African  Union  and  the  United 
Nations  in  the  area  of  conflict  management.  It  is 
advisable,  in  my  humble  opinion,  that  we  strengthen 
this  cooperation  and  make  better  use  of  it  in  order  to 
reduce the number of hot spots on our continent. We all 
stand to gain. 

Mr.  Archondo  (Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia), 
Vice-President, took the Chair. 

I have focused my remarks today on the need to 
strengthen peace. That is the essential precondition for 
all  progress,  but  a  peace  limited  to  an  absence  of 
stomping  boots  is  not  peace.  Without  ignoring  the 
successes,  it  must  be  said  that  in  this  area  our 
Organization  still  has  an  enormous  amount  to  do  to 
ensure that each and every person is able to participate 
in the progress of all of humanity. 
I  conclude  by  renewing  our  wishes  to  see  the 

concept  and  management  of 
international  affairs 
modified through an effective and sincere commitment 
of  the  entire  community  of  nations  for  a  renewal  and 
strengthening of the multilateral system. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Democratic Republic of the Congo for 
the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Joseph  Kabila  Kabange,  President  of  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, was escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Johnson Toribiong, President of the 
Republic of Palau 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Palau. 

Mr. Johnson Toribiong, President of the Republic 
of Palau, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
to 
resources 
for 
the 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Johnson  Toribiong,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Palau, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Toribiong:  It  is  an  honour  and  a 

privilege  to  address  the  General Assembly  once  again 
on behalf of the people of Palau. 

For  thousands  of  years,  Palau  was  blessed  by  a 
natural bounty that sustained our livelihood and bound 
us  together  as  a  people.  We  lived  in  remoteness  and 
isolation by respecting the environment and managing 
our  natural 
the  benefit  of  every 
generation. 
Today, however, we find ourselves to be innocent 

victims of transboundary harm. Forces beyond Palau’s 
control,  and  not  of  our  own  making,  are  ravaging  the 
oceans,  damaging  the  land  and  reefs,  threatening  our 
way  of  life  and,  in  the  worst-case  scenario,  our  very 
existence. Although  we  do  our  best  to  act  responsibly 
and sustainably, there is only so much my country can 
do on its own to protect itself. We therefore rely on our 
partners, 
the 
international rule of law to provide a remedy. 

types of transboundary harm.  

First,  I  point  to  the  state  of  global  fisheries. 
Palau’s fish are among the most valuable in the world, 
but  they  are  in  danger.  Distant  water  boats  do  not 
respect  our  borders,  laws  or  traditions.  These  boats 
come  in  great  numbers  for  tuna  in  the  Western  and 
Central  Pacific  region,  where  Palau  is  located.  At 
present, our region’s tuna is being taken for pennies on 
the dollar. These boats also hunt, fin and sell sharks for 
a  tiny  fraction  of  what  tourists  will  pay  to  see  those 
sharks alive in our waters. 

Like  the  ocean’s  currents,  efforts  to  protect  the 
marine  environment  must  flow  across  boundary  lines. 
It takes international cooperation to protect our marine 
resources and environment. 

Palau  and  other  Pacific  small  island  developing 
States  have  undertaken  innovative  measures  to  ensure 
the  continued  viability  of  our  stocks. We  have  limited 
purse  seine  fishing,  agreed  to  close  the  “donut  holes” 
between  our  jurisdictions  and  implemented  a  Vessel 
Day Scheme. 
I would like to speak today about three pernicious 
system  and  on 
international 
26 

11-50871 
that  earlier 
today 
regional 
to  make 
find  a  way 
I  am  delighted 
Two  years  ago,  from 



this  very  rostrum,  I 
announced  the  creation  of  the  world’s  first  shark 
sanctuary.  Since  that  time,  countries  and  territories 
across the globe have joined Palau in this effort. Today, 
more  than  2.7  million  square  kilometres  of  ocean  are 
safe for sharks. Our ocean’s health depends on sharks, 
so 
several 
representatives of States in different parts of the world 
joined  me  to  declare  our  shared  commitment  to 
conserving the ocean’s vast biodiversity and nurturing 
and  protecting  shark  sanctuaries.  But  that  is  just  the 
first step. 

Global  fisheries  should  be  sustainable.  Reckless 
practices that harm our fisheries and threaten our food 
security  should  stop.  That  means  that  shark  finning 
should stop. Bottom trawling, which destroys the base 
of the marine food web, should also stop. 

The  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the 
United  Nations  reports  that  85  per  cent  of  global  fish 
stocks  are  now  fully  or  overexploited.  These  are  the 
worst numbers on record. The international community 
must 
fisheries 
management  organizations  more  accountable,  so  that 
the  world  can  see  whether  countries  are  living  up  to 
their commitments. And global fisheries should be fair. 
If  distant  water  vessels  want  to  come  to  fish  for  our 
resources, they must respect our laws and those of our 
region.  They  should  fish  within  our  prescribed  limits 
and  share  the  mutual  benefits  with  us  in  a  fair  and 
equitable manner. 

Fishing  is  not  a  right.  It  is  a  privilege.  For  too 
long, the exploitation of tuna has overridden efforts to 
conserve it. This imbalance is not sustainable and must 
be  reversed.  This  should  be  done  by  creating  a  tuna 
conservation  zone  to  make  the  conservation  of  this 
valuable  resource  paramount  and  to  maximize  the 
benefits  to  the  nations  in  our  region  where  tuna  is 
harvested. We who live in the Pacific see the ocean as 
our farm, the source of our sustenance and livelihood. 
At the biggest-ever Pacific Tuna Conference, to be held 
in  Palau  in  early  December,  that  concept  of  a  tuna 
conservation  zone  will  be  considered  and  applied  to 
our region of the world. We should continue our efforts 
to  maximize  the  benefits  to  our  islands  of  sustainable 
tuna fishing in our waters. 

Secondly,  we  fear  that  this  year  undetectable 
amounts  of  nuclear  radiation  may  have  entered  our 
territory.  This  is  a  particularly  insidious  form  of 
A/66/PV.16
transboundary harm. I was involved in writing Palau’s 
Constitution,  which  bans  the  presence  of  any  nuclear 
material in our territory. We are proud to have been the 
first in the world to institute such a prohibition. But the 
supreme  law  of  our  land  cannot  protect  us  from 
potential  radiation  coming  from  outside  our  borders. 
We fear the possibility that someday our fish may not 
be safe to eat and our water may not be safe to drink. 
And  so  we  ask  the  world  to  redouble  its  efforts  to 
eliminate the threat of nuclear radiation. 

Thirdly, as I speak, people are suffering from the 
effects  of  climate  change.  As  our  corals  die,  shores 
erode  and  waters  rise,  people  feel  helpless  and 
hopeless.  Traditionally,  we  would  appeal  for  divine 
intervention. But this is not a problem from above; it is 
manmade. It poses an existential threat that exemplifies 
the issue of transboundary harm. Today, I regret to say 
that we are nowhere close to a solution. Next year will 
mark  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the  signing  of  the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change. But have we made progress? While sea levels 
have  risen,  emissions  continue  unabated.  We  are  still 
without a binding agreement. 

This past July, the Pacific small island developing 
States  banded  together  to  put  before  the  Security 
Council  modest,  achievable  and  prudent  proposals  for 
addressing  the  security  threats  of  climate  change.  But 
our voices were drowned out by other States’ priorities. 
I  can  only  agree  with  the  views  expressed  in  the 
Council by the United States: the failure of some States 
to  acknowledge  the  clear-cut  security  implications  of 
climate change is pathetic. 

However, we will not be deterred. Leaders of the 
Pacific  States  have  declared  that  the  urgent  social, 
economic and security threats posed by climate change 
require  action 
international  forum.  The 
General Assembly,  in  its  consensus  resolution  63/281, 
invited  the  relevant  bodies  of  the  United  Nations  to 
intensify  their  efforts  in  considering  and  addressing 
climate  change, 
security 
implications.  

With this in mind, Palau and the Republic of the 
Marshall Islands will call on the Assembly to seek, on 
an  urgent  basis  and  pursuant  to  Article  96  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  an  advisory  opinion 
from 
the 
responsibilities  of  States  under  international  law  to 
ensure  that  activities  emitting  greenhouse  gases  that 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  on 
its  possible 
in  every 
including 
11-50871 

27 
A/66/PV.16 

are carried out under their jurisdiction or control do not 
damage other States. 

The case should be clear. The International Court 
of  Justice  has  already  confirmed 
that  customary 
international law obliges States to ensure that activities 
within  their  jurisdiction  or  under  their  control  respect 
the environment of other States. Similarly, Article 194, 
paragraph 2, of the United Nations Convention on the 
Law  of  the  Sea  provides  that  States  shall  take  all 
measures necessary to ensure that activities under their 
jurisdiction  or  control  do  not  spread  or  cause  damage 
by  pollution  to  other  States.  It  is  time  we  determined 
what the international rule of law means in the context 
of climate change. The International Court of Justice is 
mandated to do just that. 

At  the  opening  of  last  year’s  General Assembly, 
His Excellency Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon stated 
that “At the United Nations, we find the proper path in 
community,  global  cause  …  and  mutual  responsibility 
for  a  destiny  we  share”  (A/65/PV.11,  p.  1).  That 
sentiment  means,  first  and  foremost,  that  countries 
must  do  no  harm,  particularly  to  the  most  fragile 
among us. We should find guidance in the international 
rule  of  law.  Nations  must  respect  fellow  nations. 
Whether  the  issue  is  destructive  fishing  practices, 
nuclear radiation or excessive emissions, nations must 
work together and cease to cause transboundary harm. 

I would like to share with the Assembly a number 
of  important  initiatives  that  Palau  is  undertaking  to 
connect with the international community, literally and 
in spirit.  

Palau  is  currently  connected  to  the  Internet  by 
satellite.  However,  the  service  is  poor  and  the  cost 
unaffordable for most of our people. Last year’s report 
of 
International  Telecommunication  Union’s 
Broadband  Commission  confirms 
that  broadband 
access  is  a  prerequisite  to  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. According to the  report,  a 10 per 
cent  increase  in  broadband  penetration  in  developing 
countries increases GDP by 1.4 per cent. Imagine what 
a 100 per cent increase could do. 

In  light  of  that  report,  I  have  signed  Executive 
Order No. 297 establishing a presidential task force to 
acquire a submarine fibre optic cable so that Palau will 
be  better 
its  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  I  hope  that  others  will  cooperate 
to  help  Palau  connect  to  the  world,  and  that  leaders 
will  answer  the  Commission’s  clarion  call  to  ensure 
to  meet 
equipped 
the 

that  commitment, 
that  all  people  have  access  to  broadband  networks  by 
2015. 

Palau is also reaching out to the world on human 
rights.  In  February,  we  began  our  Human  Rights 
Council  Universal  Periodic  Review.  As  a  former 
practicing  attorney  and  human  rights  advocate,  I  have 
been  an  ardent  supporter  of  this  process  from  the 
outset,  and  so  I  have  committed  Palau’s  limited 
resources  to  ensuring  a  complete  and  meaningful 
outcome.  As  evidence  of 
I 
established  a  task  force  chaired  by  our  Minister  of 
State  and  comprised  of  officials  from  across  a  broad 
spectrum  of  our  Government.  Stakeholders  from 
non-governmental organizations and civil society were 
also invited to become involved in the operations of the 
task  force  and  contributed  significantly  to  Palau’s 
national report. 

By  all  accounts,  Palau’s  response  was  a  great 
success.  The  Human  Rights  Council  unanimously 
adopted our report. The most repeated recommendation 
from  Human  Rights  Council  members  was  that  Palau 
should establish a National Human Rights Institution. I 
have  taken  this  recommendation  to  heart  and  am 
pleased 
that  Palau  will  establish  a 
National  Human  Rights  Institution.  I  am  also  pleased 
to  announce  that,  as  of  this  week,  Palau  is  now  a 
signatory 
international  human  rights 
conventions. I hope others will assist Palau as we build 
our institution and work to fulfil our obligations under 
those conventions. 

Once  again,  I  wish  to  bring  to  the  world’s 
attention  the  fact  that  the  fierce  battles  fought  by 
foreign  armies  over  Palau’s  islands  during  the  Second 
World War left explosives scattered across our land and 
in our waters. Some of those explosives, which number 
in  the  thousands,  are  still  live.  I  appeal  to  the 
conscience  of  the  world  and,  especially,  of  those 
responsible,  to  help  us  remove  this  danger  from  our 
midst. 

I  would  like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for 
attending  the  recent  meeting  of  the  Pacific  Islands 
Forum,  held  earlier  this  month  in  Auckland,  New 
Zealand.  That  meeting  was 
the  Forum’s  fortieth 
anniversary  and  was  the  first  time  that  a  United 
Nations  Secretary-General  has  attended  our  regional 
meeting  and  the  first  time  that  a  United  Nations 
Secretary-General  has  visited  a  Pacific  small  island 
developing State. I would like to thank His Excellency 
to  announce 
to  all  core 
28 

11-50871 


Mr. Ban Ki-moon for his visit. It is a testament to the 
fact that the countries of our region, even the smallest 
and  most  vulnerable  among  us,  have  something 
important to say and to contribute to our world. 

I would also like to express Palau’s gratitude for 
the strong support and friendship of all of our partners, 
new  and  old.  In  particular,  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
United  States  of  America,  Japan  and  the  Taiwan 
province of China. 

In order to further promote the efficacy, goals and 
ideals  of  the  United  Nations,  we  recommend  that 
Taiwan  be  invited  to  participate  meaningfully  in  the 
United  Nations  system.  I  believe  that  the  United 
Nations cannot fully and properly address the issues of 
health,  aviation  safety  and  climate  change  unless 
Taiwan is allowed to participate in the activities of the 
World  Health  Organization,  the  International  Civil 
Aviation  Organization  and 
the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change.  Once 
again,  I  appeal  to  the  world  to  allow  Taiwan  to 
participate in these important United Nations entities. 

Finally,  Palau  is  a  relatively  new  State,  having 
joined  the  world  community  in  1994.  Thus,  we 
remember  well 
jubilation  of  our  new-found 
freedom  and  independence.  I  take  this  opportunity  to 
congratulate  the  people  of  South  Sudan  on  attaining 
their independence and taking their rightful place here, 
in United Nations. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President of the Republic of Palau for the statement he 
has just made. 

Mr. Johnson Toribiong, President of the Republic 
of  Palau,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
from 
the 


Address by Mr. Idriss Déby Itno, President of the 
Republic of Chad 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by His Excellency 
Mr.  Idriss  Déby  Itno,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Chad. 

Mr. Idriss Déby Itno, President of the Republic of 
Chad,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 
to 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
Mr. Idriss  Déby  Itno,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Chad, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Déby  Itno  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Chadian delegation warmly congratulates the President 
on his election to the presidency of the Assembly at its 
sixty-sixth  session  and  assures  him  of  its  cooperation 
and support as he carries out his noble endeavours.  
I also express my delegation’s admiration for his 

predecessor,  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss,  who  skilfully  guided 
the Assembly’s work during the sixty-fifth session. 

Finally, Chad pays tribute the Secretary-General, 
His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his work on the 
development front and towards peace in the world. We 
reiterate  to  him  our  warmest  congratulations  on  his 
well-deserved re-election to a second term at the helm 
of our Organization. 

My delegation welcomes the choice of the central 
theme for our general debate, “The role of mediation in 
the  settlement  of  disputes”.  This  theme  is  fully 
consistent  with  our  own  political  vision,  our 
convictions  and  our  philosophy  of  a  harmonious  and 
egalitarian world.  

Chad  has  made  its  own  modest  contribution  in 
supporting the efforts of the State of Qatar, the United 
Nations 
community  by 
participating at the highest level in the negotiations and 
conclusion of the Doha Framework Agreement for the 
Resolution  of  the  Conflict  in  Darfur  between  the 
Sudanese  Government  and  the  armed  opposition  in 
Darfur. We sincerely hope that this crisis will finally be 
resolved.  To  that  end,  the  Sudan  should  be  supported 
by  the  entire  international  community,  so  that  peace 
and  security  can  be  restored  throughout  the  country 
and in the subregion.  

Furthermore, we are concerned by the hotbeds of 
tension  that  are  spreading  throughout  the  world  and 
that sometimes stem from the profound changes taking 
place, particularly in some countries of the Middle East 
and in the Maghreb. That process is often described as 
the Arab Spring. 

its 
commitment  to  stand  with  the  parties  to  conflict,  as 
part of efforts to find solutions based on reconciliation 
and forgiveness. In addition to the losses of human life 
Our  Organization  must  be 
international 
resolute 
and 
the 
A/66/PV.16
in 
11-50871 

29 

A/66/PV.16 

that  we  have  witnessed,  we  should  also  mention  the 
fact  that  dramatic  circumstances  such  as  these  also 
result  in  the  inevitable  streams  of  refugees  and  the 
displaced.  And  when  we  speak  of  refugees  and 
displaced  persons,  we  are  talking  about  misery  and 
terrible suffering. We are well qualified to discuss this 
issue,  given  that  Chad  is  now  hosting  more  than 
100,000  refugees  from  Central  Africa  in  the  south-
western  part  of  the  country  and  more  than  290,000 
Sudanese  refugees  and  180,000  Chadian  displaced 
persons  in  the  east.  They  have  been  living  in  this 
situation  since  2003,  in  precarious  environmental  and 
social conditions. 

We  call  on  the  international  community  to  show 
solidarity  and  to  assist  us  in  assuming  responsibility 
for  all  Chadian  displaced  persons.  In  the  wake  of  the 
full  withdrawal  last  March  of  the  United  Nations 
Mission  in  the  Central  African  Republic  and  Chad 
the  Chadian  Government  assumed 
(MINURCAT), 
responsibility  for 
the  protection  of  refugees  and 
displaced  persons,  as  well  as  of  the  humanitarian 
organizations  that  are  assisting  them,  by  setting  up  a 
special  national  force  known  as  the  Détachement 
intégré  de  sécurité.  It  is  to  be  hoped  that  our  partners 
will  continue  to  deploy  efforts  alongside  us  and 
complement  them  with  the  financial  and  logistical 
support  necessary  to  the  proper  functioning  of  that 
force. 

like  a  number  of  other  Sahel 
countries, Chad has witnessed the return from Libya, in 
very  dangerous  conditions,  of  almost  100,000  of  its 
nationals who were forced to leave Libya in a state of 
utter  destitution.  I  should  like  to  take  this  opportunity 
to  thank  the  International  Organization  for  Migration 
and other institutions as well as all those countries that 
have  assisted  us 
repatriating  and  providing 
assistance  to  our  nationals.  Our  deepest  desire  is  for 
peace to return to Libya so that the killing can end and 
the  Libyans  can  reconcile  in  the  framework  of  the 
National Transitional Council in order to build a State 
based on the rule of law and democracy. 

In  connection  with  the  building  of  a  new  Libya, 
we would draw the attention of our Libyan brothers to 
the  situation  of  those  of  our  citizens  who,  despite 
having  contributed to the  development  of that  country 
as  immigrant  workers,  are  sometimes  referred  to 
indiscriminately  as  mercenaries.  In  addition,  we  wish 
to  express  our  great  concern  about  the  fate  of  the 
400,000  Chadians  who  remain  trapped  in  Libya.  We 
In  addition, 
in 
lived 
initiative.  For 
that 
include 
Chad,  which  has 
international  solidarity.  They 
call  on  the  new  Libyan  authorities  urgently  to  take 
measures aimed at fulfilling its commitment to protect 
immigrants. 

Chad would also like to share with the Assembly 
our  views  on  current  issues  of  common  concern,  a 
number  of  which  are  being  discussed  in  meetings 
during  this  session.  These  are  mainly  problems  that 
affect 
the 
handling of economic and environmental crises as well 
as  the  security  situation  in  our  region.  These  issues 
directly  affect  our  daily  lives  in  that  they  hinder  or 
even  stall  our  development  efforts,  particularly  in  the 
case of countries emerging from conflict, such as Chad. 
The aftermath of those crises will certainly jeopardize 
the  implementation  of  our  development  strategies  and 
our  capacity  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals by 2015. 

through  decades  of 
external  attacks,  cannot  achieve 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  unless 
it  receives  substantial 
support  through,  inter  alia,  the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor 
reason,  we  have 
Countries 
repeatedly  called  for  support  from 
the  relevant 
international institutions.  

One of the consequences of climate change is that 
this  year  the  Sahel  area  saw  low  levels  of  rainfall, 
which could lead to an environmental and humanitarian 
catastrophe such as the one that we have seen in recent 
months in the Horn of Africa. 

We commend all of the initiatives undertaken by 
the  Organization  to  promote  international  solidarity 
with  our  countries  through  high-level  meetings  and 
summits,  including  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
the  Least  Developed  Countries,  held  in  Istanbul,  and 
upcoming  conferences  on  combating  desertification 
and  on  sustainable  development,  to  be  held  in  Korea 
and in Rio de Janeiro, respectively. 

Among  the  other  major  initiatives  that  we  have 
undertaken,  I  would  like  to  stress  in  particular  those 
relating  to  free  emergency  health  care,  maternal  and 
child  health, 
as 
HIV/AIDS and malaria, and free education at all levels. 
Our  policies  on  gender  and  on  the  empowerment  of 
youth  remain  the  cornerstone  of  our  vision  of  a  new 
Chad that is moving ahead and making progress. 

Finally,  of  all  the  challenges  facing  us,  the  issue 
of sustainable development remains a priority. Indeed, 
communicable  diseases 
such 
30 

11-50871 
call  once 
to  assist 


following  the  holding  in  Chad  in  June  2010  of  a 
meeting  on  the  Great  Green  Wall  initiative  by  the 
countries  of  the  Sahel,  our  country  in  October  2010 
convened  the  eighth  World  Forum  on  Sustainable 
Development  on  the  theme  “Save  Lake  Chad”.  The 
action  plans  that  emerged  from  those  meetings  are 
being  publicized  so  as  to  ensure  support  for  their 
implementation.  We 
the 
again  on 
international  community 
those  countries 
located  on  the  banks  of  Lake  Chad  to  help  save  the 
lake, because the world should know that the future of 
the Congo Basin forest depends on its survival, as does 
the combat against desertification.  

The  question  of  Palestine  has  been  outstanding 
for far too long, and its impact on regional and global 
security  influence  is  felt  daily.  There  is  therefore  an 
urgent need for an international consensus on the issue 
of  the  inalienable  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people. We 
believe that the time has come to recognize a State of 
Palestine  living  side  by  side  with  the  State  of  Israel. 
We  must  have  the  courage  to  move  forward  in  this 
direction,  which  is  essential  in  order  to  bring  about 
peace  between  the  Israeli  and  the  Palestinian  peoples. 
For that reason, I call on all peace- and justice-loving 
countries to commit themselves to that end. 

Finally, we would like once again to touch on the 
issue of the reform of the United Nations, one of whose 
characteristics is the marginalization of a large part of 
humankind; I refer here to the African people. African 
States,  individually  and  collectively,  are  today  key 
players  in  terms  of  peace,  security  and  development. 
Unfortunately,  it  has  to  be  said  that  they  have  not  yet 
assumed  their  full  role  within  the  system,  because  of, 
inter  alia,  their  marginalization  in  the  context  of 
initiatives aimed at resolving certain conflicts that pose 
a threat to peace and security on our continent. 

United  Nations  reform  is  absolutely  necessary, 
and we should accelerate the process, in consideration 
of the claims and legitimate hopes of Africans, whose 
main  concern  is  to  fulfil  the  right  of  the  African 
continent to be represented on the Security Council by 
a permanent seat with veto power. That is the only way 
for  Africa 
to  conflict 
prevention  and  settlement  and  to  the  maintenance  of 
peace in the world at large and on the African continent 
in particular. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly  I  wish  to  thank  the 
to  effectively  contribute 
A/66/PV.16
President of the Republic of Chad for the statement he 
has just made. 

Mr. Idriss Déby Itno, President of the Republic of 
Chad,  was  escorted  from  the  General  Assembly 
Hall. 


Address by Mr. Ivo Josipović, President of the 
Republic of Croatia 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

General  Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the 
President of the Republic of Croatia. 

Mr.  Ivo  Josipović,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Croatia, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome to the United Nations His Excellency Mr. Ivo 
Josipović, President of the Republic of Croatia, and to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Josipović:  It  is  a  distinct  pleasure  for 

me  to  participate  in  the  general  debate  of  the  General 
Assembly  for  the  first  time  since  my  election  as 
President of Croatia. 

At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  congratulate 
Ambassador Al-Nasser  on  his  election  as  President  of 
the  General Assembly  in  its  sixty-sixth  session.  I  also 
thank  Joseph  Deiss  for  his  excellent  work  during  his 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  in  the  preceding 
session. 

Let  me  also  congratulate  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon  on  his  re-election  to  that  important  and 
challenging post and assure him of the full cooperation 
of my country. 
Current  challenges  —  the  fall  of  autocratic 

regimes,  nuclear  non-proliferation, 
the 
continuing  global  financial  and  economic  crisis, 
climate change, underdevelopment — require all of us 
here at the United Nations to firmly stand together and 
offer  common  solutions  on  the  basis  of  solidarity, 
responsibility and respect for the rights and dignity of 
every person on the globe. Our responses to challenges 
must not remain just words. We need to translate them 
into  concrete  actions,  aimed  at  advancing  democracy, 
enhancing  development  and  well-being,  protecting 
human  rights,  respecting  international  law,  ensuring 
terrorism, 
11-50871 

31 

the 
peacekeeping 
A/66/PV.16 

social  justice  and  promoting  the  rule  of  law,  at  the 
domestic, regional and international levels. 

I  welcome  the  President’s  decision  to  hold  this 
debate  under  the  theme  of  “The  role  of  mediation  in 
the settlement of disputes”. Mediation has rightly been 
recognized  as  an  efficient  and  cost-effective  tool, 
which  the  United  Nations  has  at  its  disposal  in 
addressing  threats  to  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security. Political issues often lie at the heart 
importance  of  early 
of  crises.  Therefore, 
engagement  and  preventive  diplomacy, 
including 
mediation, is even more significant in this period when 
United  Nations 
are 
operations 
experiencing unprecedented demand and strain. 

My  country  has  come  a  long  way  since  the 
conflict  in  the  1990s,  when  Croatia  hosted  a  total  of 
five  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  on  its 
territory. We have developed a stable democracy and a 
free-market  economy,  and  we  serve  as  an  anchor  of 
peace, security and stability in the region of South-East 
Europe. 

That  experience  and  the  lessons  learned  have 
been the backdrop for our  engagement in the Security 
Council, where Croatia has proved to be a responsible 
and dedicated partner in the common effort to maintain 
and  build  peace.  We  intend  to  pursue  efforts  with  the 
same  vigour  in  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  the 
Economic and Social Council and other United Nations 
bodies for which Croatia is a candidate. 

When  all  efforts  to  avoid  conflict  fail,  the 
international  community  turns  as  a  rule  to  the  United 
Nations  to  stop  the  hostilities  and  maintain  peace. 
Croatia  will  continue  its  engagement  in  peacekeeping 
operations under United Nations auspices. But keeping 
the  peace  is  not  enough.  In  countries  emerging  from 
conflict,  peace  needs 
strengthened  and 
consolidated.  

Croatia has, in a relatively short time, effectively 
transitioned from a donor-recipient to a donor-provider. 
Today  we  share  our  knowledge  and  experiences  with 
countries in the region, as well as with other countries 
in crisis, where our post-conflict experience in nation-
building  is  particularly  relevant.  My  country,  working 
together  with  other  Member  States  and  the  United 
Nations  as  a  whole  —  and  acting  with  the  same 
enthusiasm  and  spirit  that  clearly  characterized  the 
international  community’s  ambitions  almost  six  years 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission  was 
ago  when 
to  be 
established  —  stands  ready  to  play  its  part  in  the 
revival of the peacebuilding architecture and thorough 
implementation of its core functions. 

Croatia  has  completed  its  accession  negotiations 
with the European Union (EU) and expects to become 
a  full  member  in  2013.  Once  it  joins  the  EU,  Croatia 
will consistently advocate further EU enlargement and 
will  not  use  its  outstanding  bilateral  issues  to  set 
conditions  for  the  progress  of  individual  countries  in 
the process of their integration with the EU. 
I  have  held  numerous  meetings  with  my 

counterparts  in  the  region,  in  particular  the  Presidents 
of  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  and  Serbia.  In  our 
meetings,  we  have  discussed  the  continuation  of  the 
reconciliation  process,  the  resolution  of  outstanding 
issues among the three States and our mutual political 
support. Croatia has pledged technical assistance in the 
process of integration into the European Union and has 
stressed the need to jointly define regional networks of 
infrastructure  systems  and  submit  them  as  regional 
projects for funding from EU funds. 

As  a  member  of  NATO  and  a  future  member  of 
the  EU,  we  have  a  keen  interest  to  see  South-East 
Europe  become  a  region  of  security,  stability  and 
development.  That  may  not  happen  overnight,  but  I 
firmly  believe  that  with  sustained  effort  and  targeted 
actions  by  all  politicians  and  peoples,  the  region  will 
lose  its  negative  reputation  as  an  arena  of  political 
fragmentation  often  accompanied  by  bloodshed,  and 
will deservedly become known as an area where good-
neighbourly 
and  mutual 
cooperation prevail, thus making it a European success 
story of peacebuilding and reconciliation. 

However,  without  justice,  efforts  to  ensure  true 
reconciliation  and  sustainable  peace  may  be  unable  to 
take  root  firmly.  Croatia  strongly  supports  determined 
efforts  to  put  an  end  to  impunity  for  the  most  serious 
crimes  of  concern  to  humanity  and,  in  that  context, 
reaffirms  its  commitment  to  international  criminal 
justice 
the 
International Criminal Court in particular. 

Croatia  supports  the  main  purpose  and  primary 
functions of the International Criminal Tribunal for the 
Former Yugoslavia  (ICTY),  namely,  the  establishment 
reconciliation.  Croatia 
of  a 
appreciates 
implement 
ICTY 
completion  strategy  and  its  transformation  towards 
residual  mechanisms.  Full  cooperation  with  the  ICTY 
lasting  peace  and 
to 
the  activities  of 
in  general  and 
the  efforts 
the 
relations, 
tolerance 
to 
32 

11-50871 
the 
law, 
consider 
efficiency 
improving 


and  respect  for  international  justice  are  a  lasting 
commitment  for  us,  not  only  in  the  context  of  the 
Euro-Atlantic  integration  processes,  but  also  as  an 
expression  of  Croatia’s  core  values  and  its  role  in  the 
international  community.  We  greatly  appreciate  the 
legacy  of  the  ICTY,  especially  its  contribution  to 
international 
justice  and  reconciliation.  That 
legacy has already improved national judiciaries in the 
region  through  its  promotion  of  high  standards  of 
criminal  responsibility  for  breaches  of  humanitarian 
law.  Further  development  of  international  law,  both 
international  and  national  judiciaries  and  a  better 
understanding of justice will be based on this positive 
legacy,  but  also  on  the  lessons  learned  from  some  of 
the ICTY’s weaknesses. 
Future development of international criminal law 

should 
of 
international courts and of State cooperation, as well as 
instituting a critical evaluation of some procedural and 
substantive  laws.  In  that  regard,  we  should  consider 
more  efficient  measures  to  be  taken  in  cases  of 
non-cooperative  States,  the  position  of  victims  and 
their compensation, and the protection of witnesses, as 
well  as  the  concept  of  joint  criminal  enterprise,  and 
others. 

rights  and 
freedoms  must  be  ensured  when  addressing  very 
serious  security  challenges,  such  as 
international 
terrorism.  Croatia  strongly  supports  the  values  and 
objectives  of  the  United  Nations  Global  Counter-
Terrorism  Strategy,  since  it  confirms  that  the  United 
Nations  is  at  the  centre  of  global  counter-terrorism 
efforts.  We  had  the  privilege  of  chairing  the  Counter-
Terrorism  Committee  during  Croatia’s  membership  in 
the  Security  Council,  and  we  are  willing  to  share  our 
knowledge  and  experience  with  others,  in  the  region 
and beyond. 

the 
legitimate aspirations of ordinary people for improved 
economic opportunities and political participation, has 
just moved into summer, but its democratic gains must 
be  preserved  if  we  do  not  want  to  see  another  relapse 
into  instability.  I  believe  that  the  course  of  recent 
events in Libya has clearly confirmed that the coalition 
forces and the Security Council took the right approach 
in  protecting  civilians  from  the  brute  force  of  the  old 
regime. I hope that the democratic forces in Libya will 
begin  to  build  a  new  State  that  will  provide  the  same 
level  of  protection  and  equal  opportunities  for  all 
The  Arab  Spring,  which 
The  protection  of 
fundamental 
is  rooted 
in 
A/66/PV.16
a 
in 
that 
to  work 
two-State 
is  crucial 
solution.  The 
Libya’s  citizens.  It 
towards 
establishing the rule of law throughout the country. We 
trust 
the  National  Transitional  Council  will 
succeed in achieving that goal. My country is ready to 
participate  in  Libya’s  reconstruction,  especially  given 
its  experience  in  post-conflict  nation-  and  institution-
building.  Taking 
into  account  new  political  and 
humanitarian  priorities  in  the  field,  Croatia  has  sent 
targeted  humanitarian  assistance  to  Libya,  with  an 
emphasis on medical and humanitarian needs. 

In  the  same  vein,  Croatia  has  recognized  the 
legitimate  aspirations  of  the  Syrian  people,  who  need 
and deserve wide and undivided support. We share the 
international  community’s  belief  that  it  is  essential  to 
normalize  the  situation  and  prevent  further  mass 
violations  of  human  rights,  strengthen  democratic 
standards  and  the  rule  of  law,  and  assist  those  who 
share the vision of a democratic Syria. 

Croatia  shares  the  sense  of  urgency  concerning 
the  importance  of  securing  an  early  resumption  and 
conclusion of Israeli-Palestinian negotiations, aimed at 
achieving 
current 
unprecedented  and  deep  changes 
the  political 
landscape of the Middle East call for urgent and highly 
responsive  action  by  all  parties  concerned.  Mutual 
recognition  —  Israel’s  recognition  of  a  Palestinian 
State and Palestine’s recognition of the Jewish State — 
constitutes  both  the  starting  point  and  the  desired 
outcome  of  peace  negotiations.  Failure 
to  move 
forward  on  a  two-State  solution  now  may  have 
unpredictable  negative  consequences,  not  only  for 
Israel  and  Palestine,  but  for  the  whole  international 
community.  Given  our  recent  experience  of  war  and 
reconciliation,  Croatia  calls  on  the  leaders  of  the 
parties 
historic 
responsibility  for  the  future  of  their  peoples  and  for 
peace and stability in the Middle East. 

Recently,  we  witnessed  an  example  of  a  new 
State being created in a generally peaceful manner, and 
I  welcome  South  Sudan  as  the  newest  Member  of  the 
United Nations. However, this and many other ongoing 
crises, in the Sudan, Somalia, the Democratic Republic 
of 
the 
irreplaceable  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  ending 
conflicts; and in this context mediation, as the theme of 
our debate, becomes even more relevant. 

Croatia  continues  to  promote  universal  human 
rights and supports the mainstreaming of human rights 
the  Congo  and  other  places,  confirm 
concerned 
shoulder 
their 
to 
11-50871 

33 
and 
gender 
identity 
orientation 
A/66/PV.16 

within  the  United  Nations  framework.  In  that  context, 
we  give  particular  attention  to  issues  such  as  the 
abolition  of  the  death  penalty,  gender  equality  and 
combating  all  forms  of  discrimination,  as  well  as  the 
promotion  of  the  human  rights  of  the  most  vulnerable 
social  groups,  including  women,  children  and  persons 
with disabilities. Croatia strongly supports the concepts 
of the universality, interrelatedness and indivisibility of 
all human rights. 
Croatia  welcomes  the  establishment  of  UN-Women, 

the  new  United  Nations  body  focused  on  supporting 
gender  equality  and  the  empowerment  of  women. 
Croatia  also  supports  relevant  initiatives  on  the  rights 
of  lesbian,  gay,  bisexual  and  transgender  persons  and 
will  continue  to  be  actively  engaged  in  the  follow-up 
process  to  the  2008  joint  statement  on  human  rights, 
sexual 
(see 
A/63/PV.70). 

In  response  to  dramatic  changes  in  the  world  in 
the  last  few  decades,  comprehensive  reforms  of  the 
United  Nations  system  as  a  whole  have  been  put 
forward. Those proposals include structural reform and 
improvements  in  the  way  United  Nations  bodies 
function,  as  well  as  revitalization  of  the  General 
Assembly. Although there are many important elements 
in this process, reforming the Security Council remains 
essential.  Croatia  believes  that  the  Security  Council 
must  adequately  represent  the  current  structure  of  the 
membership  of  the  United  Nations.  We  therefore 
support  enlarging 
in  both 
permanent and non-permanent membership categories. 
Taking into consideration that the number of members 
of  the  Eastern  European  Group  has  almost  doubled, 
Croatia proposes that one seat be added for the Group 
in the non-permanent category. Croatia is also aware of 
the  importance  of  resolving  all  the  other  elements  of 
Security Council reform. 

increasing  challenges 
As  we  witness 
appearing around the world, it is clear that we must all 
make  every  effort 
the  capability, 
efficiency  and  credibility  of  the  United  Nations  in 
general. We welcome the establishment of the Change 
to  seeing 
Management  Team,  and 
proposals 
increasing 
accountability  and  improving  the  efficiency  of  the 
United Nations in delivering its mandates. 

The  challenges  and  consequences  of  climate 
change  are  undermining  efforts  to  achieve  sustainable 
look  forward 
streamlining  processes, 
the  Security  Council 
to  strengthen 
the 
for 

development.  Climate  change  must  be 
further 
mainstreamed  into  the  work  of  the  whole  United 
Nations  system,  with  a  view  to  supporting  efforts  to 
help the transition to low-carbon economies consistent 
with  sustainable  development,  to  strengthen  countries’ 
adaptation and resilience in the face of climate change, 
and to minimize the possible security implications. 

In  the  light  of  diminishing  natural  resources, 
environmental  degradation,  extreme  poverty,  hunger 
and  diseases,  and  social  unrest,  we  agree  with  others 
that  sustainable  development  has  become  the  defining 
issue  of  our 
time.  Our  highly  globalized  and 
interdependent world means that we share not only the 
same  challenges  but  a  common  fate. As  a  member  of 
the Bureau of the Preparatory Committee, Croatia will 
be  an  active  contributor  to  the  preparations  for  next 
year’s  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development,  the  Rio+20  Conference.  This  summit 
meeting  will  provide  a  unique  opportunity 
to 
reinvigorate the spirit of Rio and to restate a blueprint 
for political commitment, partnership and action on the 
ground  without  revisiting  the  agreements  reached  at 
Rio in 1992 or at Johannesburg in 2002. 

Finally,  let  me  return  to  what  this  Organization 
stands for. In order to achieve our common objectives, 
we  must  demonstrate  unity  of  purpose,  firm  resolve, 
solidarity and responsibility. Or, as a famous composer 
once  said,  “Only  the  pure  in  heart  can  make  a  good 
soup.” 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  thank  the  President 
of the Republic of Croatia for the statement he has just 
made. 

Mr.  Ivo  Josipović,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Croatia, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 


Address by Ms. Laura Chinchilla Miranda, President 
of the Republic of Costa Rica 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly will now hear an address by the President of 
the Republic of Costa Rica. 

Ms.  Laura  Chinchilla  Miranda,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Costa  Rica,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
34 

11-50871 
to 
(spoke 
President  Chinchilla  Miranda


the  United  Nations  Her  Excellency 
welcome 
Ms. Laura  Chinchilla  Miranda,  President  of 
the 
Republic of Costa Rica, and to invite her to address the 
Assembly.  
in 

Spanish):  It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  begin  my 
statement by warmly congratulating Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon on his re-election to the post in which he 
has  carried  out  his  duties  with  such  effectiveness  and 
honesty.  His  contributions  to  the  Organization,  the 
international  community  and  the  multilateral  system 
over  these  first  five  years  are  well  known.  We  know 
they will continue to be so in the years to come. 

I would also like to congratulate the President of 
the  sixty-sixth  session  of  the  General  Assembly, 
Ambassador  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser.  His 
experience,  ability  and  dedication  are  guarantees  of 
fruitful work. 
I extend my best wishes to both as they exercise 

their  vital  functions,  and  they  will  have  Costa  Rica’s 
full  support  for  their  efforts  in  favour  of  peace, 
security,  democracy,  disarmament,  human 
rights, 
respect  for  the  rule  of  law,  sustainable  development, 
mediation and the peaceful settlement of disputes. 

I  am  also  very  pleased  to  welcome  South  Sudan 
as a new Member of the Organization. I believe that its 
people  will  enjoy  a  prosperous,  peaceful  and  safe 
future. The emergence of this new State is a testament 
to what can be achieved, even in situations of endemic 
violence,  through  serious  negotiations  between  the 
parties and international mediation. 

The  intense  and  invigorating,  but  still  uncertain, 
currents of political and social change that have swept 
through North Africa and the Middle East this year are 
proof  of  the  universal  force  of  democracy  as  an 
aspiration,  of  free  expression  as  an  incentive,  and  of 
respect for human dignity as the most urgent demand. 

Our admiration for the peoples of those countries 
is as great as our hope in their capacity to forge social 
and  political  systems  in  peace,  systems  that  are 
tolerant,  free  and  dynamic,  in  which  people  are 
respected  and  whereby  a  country  can  be  open  to  its 
neighbours.  

We  also  hope  that  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict 
will  soon  come  to  an  end,  with  two  sovereign  and 
democratic States living in peaceful coexistence. 
A/66/PV.16

From its deepest collective roots, Costa Rica fully 
identifies  with  the  principles  of  democracy,  peace  and 
human rights. These are values that we share with the 
immense majority of Central Americans. 

Disrespect  for  those  values,  together  with  social 
exclusion,  the  outrages  of  militarism  and  the  deadly 
echo  of  the  Cold  War,  plunged  much  of  Central 
America  into  a  series  of  intense  conflicts  for  almost 
four  decades.  After  tens  of  thousands  of  deaths,  our 
region  was  able,  through  dialogue  and  mediation,  to 
overcome 
the  worst  manifestations  of  political 
violence.  In  those  overwhelming  days,  Costa  Rica 
made  a decisive contribution by shaping  and realizing 
the  Esquipulas  Accords,  which  opened  the  door  to 
reconciliation. 

Since  then,  progress  has  been  slow  and  erratic. 
Fifteen  years  ago,  as  part  of  that  process,  Central 
American  countries  signed  the  Framework  Treaty  on 
Democratic  Security  in  Central America.  But  the  time 
that  has  elapsed  since  then  has  not  sufficed  to  secure 
the  peace,  liberty,  democracy  and  development  in  the 
region that we promised our peoples. 
Even  worse,  we  are  now  victims  of  a  new  and 

terrible form of aggression. I am referring to the cold, 
disastrous  and 
transnational 
organized  crime.  Such  activities  have  generated 
insecurity,  weakened  institutions,  corrupted  officials, 
fostered  addiction,  cut  short  the  lives  of  thousands  of 
young  people,  destroyed  families  and  turned  humble 
single mothers into criminals. This scourge has eroded 
the basic fabric of our society and has jeopardized the 
very existence of the rule of law in some countries. 

Today, I wish to repeat the comments I  made on 
22  June  at  the  International  Conference  on  Regional 
Security 
in 
Guatemala. Our region has fallen victim to a perverse 
geopolitical situation. As Costa Rica is located between 
the  major  production  centres  and  the  world’s  largest 
consumer market for drugs, we have become a target in 
the dynamic of death that both create. We must bear the 
burden 
increasing  material, 
institutional  and  human  costs.  What  are  instances  of 
mere collateral damage for some of the main actors in 
this  conflict  are,  for  the  people  of  Central  America, 
extreme challenges and a source of deep wounds. 

That is where our greatest frustration lies. That is 
why  we  demand  that  the  international  community,  in 
particular the largest consumers of drugs and producers 
in  Central  America,  held 
fierce  onslaught  of 
recently 
of 
exponentially 
11-50871 

35 
that 
from, 
the 
The 
to  violence 
some  promises 
includes  measures 
A/66/PV.16 

of  the  weapons  that  create  violence,  fully  assume  its 
share of responsibility without further delay. 

International  Conference  on  Regional 
Security  in  Central  America,  which  was  attended  by 
the Presidents of all of the countries in the region, from 
Mexico  to  Colombia,  was  a  hopeful  turning  point. 
There,  we  were  able  to  coordinate  our  strategies. 
There,  we  agreed  on  the  need  for  a  comprehensive 
approach 
to 
strengthen  institutions  and  the  rule  of  law,  as  well  as 
comprehensive initiatives to prevent and fight crime. In 
addition,  we  were  able  to  catch  the  attention  of,  and 
obtain 
international 
community. 

Nonetheless,  it  remains  to  be  seen  whether  the 
strategies  can  be  translated  into  effective  actions,  or 
whether  we  will  have  enough  support  from  external 
resources  to  drive  them  forward.  Those  resources  are 
not merely aid. They are a morally inescapable and, in 
practical  terms,  indispensable  form  of  compensation 
that  we  need  to  make  at  least  part  of  the  investment 
necessary to establish peace, stability and security. 
The Secretary-General of the United Nations has 

insisted,  quite  rightly,  on 
to  promote 
preventive diplomacy. I join in that call as President of 
Costa Rica and as a citizen of Central America. I insist, 
before the world, that we can wait no longer to act in 
order to avoid an even greater tragedy in our region. It 
is already late; to wait even longer will be tragic. 

Preventive diplomacy demands political will. We 
are approaching another moment in which it will be put 
to the test. I refer to the upcoming United Conference 
on  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty,  which  Costa  Rica  has 
actively supported, along with other States. We need to 
have  the  Conference  produce  a  robust,  comprehensive 
and  demanding 
instrument  capable  of  effectively 
controlling the flow of the death machines that provoke 
all types of conflict. 
Preventive diplomacy, in its deepest essence, also 

means  fostering  democracy  and  human  rights  and 
respecting the rule of law as the cornerstone of security 
and  international  coexistence.  Costa  Rica  knows  it 
well.  Since  we  abolished  the  army  in  1949,  our  only 
lines of defence have been the deep civic beliefs of our 
people, 
the 
instruments  provided  by  the  multilateral  system.  The 
security  of  the  26  other  disarmed  democracies  in  the 
the  strength  of  our 
institutions  and 
the  need 

to 
to  and  violations  of 
the  Nicaraguan  forces  had 
world  also  depends  on  those  defences.  We  deserve  to 
be heard and paid attention to. 

A  little  less  than  a  year  ago,  our  faith  in 
international  law  and  the  instruments  and  institutions 
that  underpin  it  was  put  to  the  test.  Last  October, 
Nicaraguan  troops  and  civilians  invaded  and  occupied 
part  of  our  national  territory,  in  clear  violation  of  our 
sovereignty,  the  border  treaties  and  international  law. 
After exhausting the possibilities of a suitable bilateral 
agreement,  we  appealed  to  various  forums  of  the 
regional  and  international  system.  Our  neighbour’s 
Government rejected several of them. Finally, thanks to 
urgent  measures  ordered  by  the  International  Court  of 
Justice, 
leave  our 
territory.  

However, while we await the Court’s final ruling, 
Nicaragua,  ignoring  the  Court’s  orders,  has  continued 
specific  provocations 
the 
provisional  measures.  Furthermore,  it  has  threatened 
other  actions  that  could  infringe  on  our  territory.  We 
hope that that does not occur. But, if it were to, we will 
vigorously  reinstate  our  actions  before  the  machinery 
of the international system. 

All  that  we  request  of  the  Organization  and  the 
multilateral  system  in  general  is  rapid  and  timely 
consideration 
The 
international  community  cannot  make  its  preventive 
action  conditional  on  actual  armed  violence  between 
brothers.  It  should  react  not  only  in  relation  to  the 
quantity  and  scale  of  the  explosive  blasts,  but  to  the 
severity and persistence of the violations. 

Otherwise,  the  message  to  the  world  would  be 
disastrous.  It  would  imply  that  the  shortest  route  for 
mobilizing international diplomacy is that of blood. As 
a country and as a people, we emphatically reject that 
notion. 

Based on our firm belief in the importance of the 
rule  of  law,  human  rights  and  humanitarian  law,  I 
informed the Assembly a year ago of our aspiration to 
become  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights  Council. 
Today,  I  am  grateful  for  the  generous  support  that  it 
gave us in achieving that goal. We will remain faithful 
to the promises made  at the time and to the proposals 
that we called for during the review of  the Council in 
Geneva and New York. 

In particular, I urge Member States to support an 
initiative  whose  time  has  come:  the  United  Nations 
aggressions. 
possible 
of 
36 

11-50871 
A/66/PV.16


declaration  on  human  rights  education  and  training, 
which  Costa  Rica  supports  together  with  a  group  of 
like-minded countries. After its unanimous adoption by 
the  Council,  it  will  soon  be  submitted  to  the  General 
Assembly. We are confident that it will receive similar 
support. 

When education, deterrence and other preventive 
mechanisms  are  unable  to  avert  the  worst  assaults  on 
human dignity, the international community faces other 
obligations. Among them is the protection of civilians, 
contained  in  the  responsibility  to  protect.  My  country 
recognizes  that  concept  as  a  principle  and  guide  for 
action, whether preventive or reactive,  on the basis  of 
legitimate  and  well-founded  decisions.  We  hope  that 
such  a  concept,  like  human  security,  is  very  clearly 
defined within the Organization. 

Moreover, the fight for human rights requires that 
perpetrators  of  crimes  against  humanity  be  held 
accountable  and  punished.  Today,  the  International 
Criminal Court is the main multilateral mechanism for 
achieving  that  goal.  I  reiterate  our  support  of  its 
activities  and  urge  all  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations  to  ratify  the Treaty  of  Rome.  I  also  urge  that 
we  should  all,  as  Member  States,  be  more  active  and 
resolute  in  our  support  for  the  greater  effectiveness, 
relevance  and  significance  of  the  United  Nations; 
hence, the importance of its reform process. 

Costa  Rica  has  joined  and  will  continue  to  join 
initiatives  that  push  for  the  best  possible  changes. 
Among  other 
to  work 
constructively  for  the  ongoing  improvement  of  the 
working methods of the Security Council, through the 
Small  Five  group,  and  for  a  more  representative 
composition  of  that  organ,  in  accordance  with  the 
guidelines of Uniting for Consensus. 

Costa Rica is a middle-income country. Thanks to 
its commitment to democracy, peace, good governance, 
the  efficient  use  of  international  cooperation  and  its 
investments  in  health  and  education,  Costa  Rica  has 
achieved  high  levels  of  human  development. Together 
with  other  States  with  similar  characteristics,  we 
exemplify the success of international cooperation as a 
key factor in achieving such results. However, we still 
face serious challenges with regard to poverty, income 
distribution, regional differences and the consequences 
of  the  economic  crisis  and  natural  disasters,  among 
others. 

We  have  been  responsible,  effective  and  ethical 
partners.  We  have  made  progress  in  development,  but 
have still not been able to consolidate it to the point of 
things,  we  will  continue 

links,  we  have  confidence 
in 
dispensing  with  international  assistance. We  still  need 
that  assistance  to  fully  secure  our  achievements.  We 
look forward to the support and understanding of donor 
countries and the institutions of the United Nations, in 
particular 
the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme.  Our  relative  success  should  not  be 
penalized, but bolstered. 

Costa Rica has focused on sustainable social and 
environmental development. We have taken significant 
steps to sustain our growth through clean energy and a 
low-carbon  economic  model.  Our  goal  is  to  become 
one  of  the  first  carbon-neutral  countries  in  the  world, 
and we are working diligently to achieve it. 
On  that  path,  in  which  every  local  action  has 

global 
the  next 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Climate  Change  Conference,  to  be  held  in  Durban  at 
the end of the year, and in the coming United Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development,  planned  for 
next  year  in  Rio  de  Janeiro.  However,  we  are  also 
concerned  about  the  lack  of  progress  made  in  earlier 
negotiations. 
I  conclude  these  words  by  reiterating  our  deep 

commitment to the principles set out in the Charter of 
the  United  Nations.  I  am  delighted  that  yesterday  we 
celebrated the thirtieth anniversary of the International 
Day of Peace, a Costa Rican initiative that was adopted 
by  consensus  by  Member  States.  It  gives  me  even 
greater  pleasure  that  its  theme  this  year  is  “Peace  and 
democracy: Make your voice heard”. 
As  national  and  international  leaders,  we  should 

always  heed  the  voices  of  our  peoples.  We  should 
listen  to  them,  respect  them  and  incorporate  them  in 
our 
is  part  of  our  democratic 
responsibility,  the  basis  of  good  governance,  the  seed 
of meaningful change and the foundation of legitimacy. 

As  President  of  Costa  Rica,  a  discrete,  noble, 
fraternal and free people, I promise not to relent in our 
efforts to achieve a better country and a better world. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Costa  Rica  for  the 
statement she has just made. 

Ms.  Laura  Chinchilla  Miranda,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Costa  Rica,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
  The meeting rose at 7.50 p.m. 
initiatives.  That 
11-50871 

37 
