
A/66/PV.27
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

27th plenary meeting 
Monday, 26 September 2011, 6 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 







In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Thomson 
(Fiji), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 6.35 p.m. 


Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  Her 

Excellency  Ms.  Aurelia  Frick,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs,  Minister  for  Justice  and  Minister  for  Cultural 
Affairs of Liechtenstein. 
Ms. Frick (Liechtenstein): It is a great honour to 

again  address  this  Assembly,  especially  at  the  first 
general  debate  ever  opened  by  a  woman.  What  an 
inspiration!  This  debate  has  already  proven  that  the 
General  Assembly  can  indeed  play  a  central  role  in 
multilateral  diplomacy,  in  particular  at  this  time  of 
great change and turmoil.  

I  would  like  to  express  the  solidarity  of  my 
country,  Liechtenstein,  with  all  of  the  peoples  of  the 
world  that  have,  in  recent  months,  sought  to  attain 
freedom  from  oppression  and  tyranny.  We  admire  the 
courage of all of those women and men, young and old, 
who  have  stood  up  for  their  rights,  often  at  great 
personal  risk.  We,  the  United  Nations,  must  stand  by 
them.  I  also  wish  to  welcome  South  Sudan  as  the 
193rd State  Member  of  the  Organization.  The  United 
Nations  has  yet  again  proven  its  ability  to  settle 
complex and violent conflicts by peaceful means. 

Mr.  Allam-mi  (Chad),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

The  developments  in  northern  Africa  and  the 
Middle  East  may  have  roots  mainly  in  the  lack  of 
connections  between  Governments  and  their  people. 
While they may be primarily internal in nature, there is 
also an international dimension to the rapid changes we 
are witnessing. The events since February have put the 
Organization itself to the test, and more challenges can 
be expected to occur.  

In  recent  years  we  have  sharpened  tools  and 
concepts  that  are  essential  in  helping  us  solve  or 
prevent  conflicts.  So  how  did  we  apply  them  during 
these challenging times?  

First, how well did we carry out our commitment 
to  protect  civilians?  The  United  Nations  has  made 
much  progress  in  developing  the  concept  of  the 
responsibility to protect. The concept has three pillars: 
in  the  first  instance,  the  primary  responsibility  of  the 
State  concerned,  and  then  the  second  pillar,  according 
to which other States have a responsibility to assist in 
the  protection  of  civilians.  In  two  recent  instances, 
however,  the  international  community  has  had  to  act 
under  the  last  and  third  pillar.  We  commend  the 
Security  Council  for  taking  swift  action  to  protect 
civilians  in  Libya  and  in  Côte  d’Ivoire.  In  both 
instances, the Council authorized the use of force only 
as a last resort, but also without undue delay. 

Some have criticized the actions taken and argued 
that  they  were  aimed  at  regime  change.  Let  us  not 
forget,  however,  that  the  regimes  in  question  had  a 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-51398 (E) 
*1151398* 


time,  we  sympathize  with 
A/66/PV.27 

choice. It was they who chose to attack civilians. It was 
they who forced the international community to act. At 
the  same 
those  who 
perceived  a  selective  application  of  the  responsibility 
to protect. As the stalemate in the Security Council on 
Syria  showed,  politics  continues,  at  times,  to  trump 
principle.  In  response,  however,  we  need  more 
principled action, not more politics. 

Secondly,  have  we  lived  up  to  our  promise  to 
ensure  accountability  for  the  worst  crimes?  Have  we 
lived  up  to  the  promise  of  “Never  again!”,  which  we 
gave in the aftermath of Rwanda and Srebrenica? Once 
more,  the  international  response  to  crimes  committed 
in Libya has provided a glimmer of hope. The Security 
Council’s  unanimous  referral  of  the  Libya  situation  to 
the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  was  a  historic 
decision.  The  ICC  responded  appropriately  with  swift 
action.  Furthermore,  the  Court  is  also  undertaking 
preliminary investigations regarding Côte d’Ivoire. The 
central role played by the Court in those situations and 
in  many  others  has  illustrated  the  profound  paradigm 
shift brought about by the Rome Statute.  

The  core  principle  of  that  shift  is  now  firmly 
entrenched  in  the  fabric  of  international  law:  there 
must  be  accountability  for  genocide,  war  crimes  and 
crimes against humanity. But accountability has not yet 
arrived  everywhere 
is  needed.  Serious 
allegations  of  crimes  committed  in  Sri  Lanka  and  in 
Syria,  for  instance,  have  not  yet  found  an  appropriate 
and transparent justice mechanism. Again, the primary 
responsibility to ensure an end to impunity falls on the 
States  concerned.  International  mechanisms,  such  as 
the ICC, can and must only become active where States 
fail to live up to their responsibilities. 

Thirdly,  how  effective  have  we  been  in  using 
mediation  as  a  tool  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes?  This  topic,  which  was  rightfully  chosen  as 
the central theme of the presidency, is at the very heart 
of 
the 
Secretary-General’s  call  to  raise  prevention  from  an 
abstract  concept  to  a  core  operating  principle.  It  is 
simply  paradoxical  that  only  a  small  fraction  of  the 
Secretariat’s resources is dedicated to mediation, while 
we spend $7 billion per year on peacekeeping.  

In many situations, the good offices provided by 
neutral  and  trusted  actors,  such  as  envoys  of  the 
Secretary-General,  can  make  a  real  difference  on  the 
ground.  Such  actions  involve  highly  intense,  often 
the  Organization’s  mandate.  We  support 
that 
it 
help 
domestic 
2 

11-51398 
heroic  efforts,  which  deserve  much  stronger  support 
from  us  as  Member  States.  Mediation  efforts  are 
increasingly influenced by accountability mechanisms. 
The General Assembly itself acknowledged this fact in 
its  first  ever  resolution  on  strengthening  mediation, 
where  it  emphasized,  that  “justice  is  a  fundamental 
(resolution 
building  block  of  sustainable  peace” 
65/283, thirteenth preambular paragraph).  

In  this  new  age  of  accountability,  mediators  can 
never  offer  amnesty  from  criminal  prosecution  or 
withdraw arrest warrants issued by the ICC. That is not 
only a matter of principle, but a matter of law. The ICC 
would never be bound by such promises. At times, the 
imperatives  of  peace  and  justice  may  compete  with 
each  other  temporarily  and  make  the  mediator’s  job 
more difficult. Over the long run, however, they are not 
only  compatible,  but  mutually 
reinforcing.  That 
message is sent around the globe upon each ratification 
of the Rome Statute. And we are particularly happy to 
note  that  the  message  has  been  sent  118  times  so  far, 
most recently by the Philippines and the Maldives. 

Fourthly, have we done enough to include women 
in  efforts  at  conflict  prevention  and  resolution  and  to 
make  them  agents  of  change,  instead  of  bystanders? 
Have we done enough to protect them during conflict, 
sexual  violence?  We  have 
in  particular, 
this 
collectively  sent  strong  signals 
regard. 
Liechtenstein  particularly 
the  Security 
Council’s  work  on  women,  peace  and  security.  We 
welcome the new focus on the role of women brought 
about  by  the  creation  of  UN-Women.  Women  have 
been  a  driving  force  in  the Arab  Spring.  But  as  some 
countries transition to a new era, women risk being left 
behind once again.  

in 
transitional processes. It must ensure  a strong role  for 
women  and  apply  a  gender  perspective.  Most 
important,  the  United  Nations  must  lead  by  example 
and  appoint  more  women  as  leaders  in  mediation  and 
other transitional processes. It was therefore with great 
pleasure that I signed the joint statement on advancing 
women’s political participation, earlier today. 

Regarding  the  protection  of  women  and  girls 
from sexual violence, we place high hopes in the new 
monitoring  and  reporting  mechanism.  Expert  teams 
will 
accountability 
mechanisms. The greatest  responsibility, however, lies 
with  peacekeepers  on  the  ground.  They  are  mandated 
The  United  Nations 
in 
supports 
strengthen 
is  often 
involved 
from 
economic 
and 
social 
committed 
by 
sexual 
abuse 
development 


to go into harm’s way and protect civilians. They must 
fulfil  that  mandate  even  more  effectively  when  faced 
with  situations  of  sexual  violence.  Most  important 
though, we must once and for all eradicate all instances 
of 
peacekeepers 
themselves.  It  is  not  enough  to  simply  repatriate  Blue 
Helmet soldiers who have committed such crimes. Zero 
tolerance  for  sexual  abuse  must  finally  become  a 
reality. 

Fifthly, have we done enough to address the root 
causes  of  the  unrest  in  many  countries,  including 
poverty,  unemployment,  corruption,  lack  of  freedom 
and  human  rights?  Those  root  causes  and  the  strong 
popular opposition against them, remind us of a simple 
truth: 
are 
inextricably  linked  with  good  governance,  human 
rights and the rule of law.  

The  international  community  has  many  tools  at 
its  disposal  to  assist  countries  in  reforming  their 
systems  of  governance.  We  strongly  support  United 
Nations  activities  to  promote  the  rule  of  law  and 
combat corruption and make financial contributions to 
that  end.  There  is  no  shortage  of  assistance  and 
capacity-building  programmes.  What  is  needed  is 
greater political will to actually make use of them. It is, 
however, the task of the United Nations to improve the 
manner  in  which  rule-of-law  assistance  programmes 
are  delivered  and  coordinated.  We  would  welcome  a 
stronger  role  for  the  Rule  of  Law  Coordination  and 
Resource Group in this regard, and hope that progress 
can  be  made  at  next  year’s  high-level  meeting  on  the 
rule of law. 

The events of recent months have shown us once 
again how irresistible the call for freedom can be. And 
they have shown us, once more, how indispensable the 
Organization is when it comes to assisting peoples that 
aspire to such freedom through democracy. Despite all 
the  criticism,  I  am  convinced  that  the  United  Nations 
has in recent years become more effective in delivering 
on  its  mandate.  If  we  work  together  here,  we  will 
achieve  results  much  more  efficiently  than  through 
individual  actions.  Great  opportunities  lie  ahead  of 
us — let us accept the challenge. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Samuel  Santos  López,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Nicaragua. 
in 

Spanish):  At  this  general  debate  of  the  sixty-sixth 
Mr.  Santos  López
(Nicaragua) 
(spoke 
11-51398 

A/66/PV.27
session  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  convey  to  the 
Assembly  a  Christian,  socialist  greeting  of  solidarity 
from  the  people  of  Nicaragua  and  Comrade  President 
Commander Daniel Ortega Saavedra. We trust that our 
work will contribute to strengthening the Organization 
through an appropriate focus on its purposes, principles 
and possible  contributions so that we can successfully 
deal  with  the  challenges  before  us  as  a  community  of 
States, peoples and nations. 

One year ago, during our discussions at the sixty-
fifth  session  of  the  General Assembly,  we  extensively 
addressed  the  serious  and  multifaceted  international 
crisis  experienced  by  humankind.  At  that  time  we 
called  it  an  apocalyptical  crisis.  One  year  later,  the 
evolution  of  world  events  has  confirmed  our 
profoundest  fears  that  our  civilization  is  now  at  a 
critical  stage  and  that  peace  between  States  and 
peoples is dangerously at risk. 

Expectations  that  the  international  economic  and 
financial  situation  would  improve  have  dissipated 
before  the  relentless  reality  of  a  profound  crisis;  its 
gravest  effects  still  continue  to  affect  deeply  our 
peoples.  The  international  financial  system,  which  is 
controlled by speculators, again plunged into a tailspin. 
The measures taken have had a temporary, non-lasting 
effect  owing  to  the  ever  increasing  greed  of  bankers. 
We are now witnessing the effects of the United States 
internal debt problem, which has generated great losses 
in most exchange markets. 

At present, as before, we affirm that we reject the 
language of war between peoples and we reject war as 
a means to resolve conflicts between States. In the light 
of  the  events  in  the  brotherly  Arab  socialist  popular 
republic  of  Libya,  we  reiterate  our  declaration  of 
principle  and  express  our  solidarity  with  the  brotherly 
Libyan people. 

The blunt and shameful manipulation of Security 
Council resolution 1973 (2011) regarding Libya — the 
illegal war being carried out by NATO members — is 
the  most  recent  example  of  the  pathological  need  of 
particular  States  to  attempt  to  subordinate  the  peoples 
of the world at any cost. It is the most recent example 
of attacks against the sovereignty of a State Member of 
the  United  Nations  in  violation  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations. 

Nicaragua  expresses  its  firmest  rejection  of  the 
use  of  the  misnamed  responsibility  to  protect  in  order 
to  intervene  in  our  countries,  bomb  civilians  and 
3 

A/66/PV.27 

change  free  and  sovereign  governments.  We  cannot 
allow  the  imposition  of  this  new  model  of  imperialist 
aggression  nor  the  continued  aggression  against  our 
peoples.  Interference and intervention will not  resolve 
crises;  only  dialogue  and  negotiation  among  brothers 
and sisters will resolve political crises among peoples. 

The  unacceptable  policy  of  double  standards  has 
become  a  constant  of  those  Powers,  which  clearly 
aspire  to  hegemony.  Where  are  those  countries,  the 
supposed  defenders  of  oppressed  peoples,  the  self-
proclaimed  civilian  protection  apostles,  when  an 
attempt  is  being  made  to  recognize  the  inalienable 
rights  of  the  Palestinian  people,  their  right  to  live  in 
peace,  their  right  to  a  sovereign  State  enjoying  full 
recognition as a State Member of the United Nations? 
This  is  clearly  an  instance  of  double  morals,  double 
standards. After six decades of conflict, the Palestinian 
people are now to be denied their right to a State, while 
a mere 10 days ago, with unheard of haste and, I must 
note, a certain irony, the General Assembly recognized 
a  transitional  council  that  has  not  yet  formed  a 
Government. 

We reject the logic of denying the very existence 
of a Palestinian State. From the moment of triumph of 
our revolution in 1979 — the Sandinista revolution — 
Nicaragua  has  been  a  proud  witness  to  the  noble 
struggle of the Palestinian people and their substantial 
concessions aimed at achieving peace. 

Before  the  General Assembly,  Nicaragua  ratifies 
its recognition of the Palestinian State  within its 1967 
borders with East Jerusalem as its capital. We call, here 
and  now,  for  the  proclamation  of  Palestine  as  the 
194th State  Member 
the  United  Nations. 
Recognition  of  the  legitimate  rights  of  the  Palestinian 
people  can  only  serve  to  promote  Middle  East  peace 
and  stability.  At  present,  more 
than  ever,  such 
recognition must become a reality. Clearly, Palestine’s 
right is linked to the existence of the State of Israel, a 
State we recognize in juridical and political terms. May 
both  States  exist,  so  that  both  peoples  may  live  in 
peace and work for their well-being and development: 
That is the universal appeal. 

Resolutions adopted by the General Assembly for 
more  than  two  decades  have  demanded  an  end  to  the 
United  States  of America’s  economic  embargo  against 
implemented.  Despite 
Cuba.  They  must  be  fully 
expectations, 
that  nothing  has 
changed. Sanctions against Cuba remain intact and are 
the  facts  confirm 
of 
their  people 
to 
the  activities  of 
rigorously 
implemented.  That  criminal  blockade 
violates international law; it is contrary to the purposes 
and principles of the Charter of the United Nations and 
constitutes a crime against a sovereign State’s right to 
peace, development and security. In its essence and its 
objectives,  it  is  an  act  of  unilateral  aggression  and  a 
permanent threat to a country’s stability. 

Despite  that  criminal  blockade,  Cuba  continues 
daily to strengthen its solidarity and fraternal relations 
with  all  peoples  of  the  world.  Cuba’s  armies  of  white 
coats  and  educators  are  ever  more  numerous  in 
demonstrating  their  country’s  solidarity. We  also  echo 
the  call  for  an  end  to  the  injustice  against  the  five 
Cuban  heroes  who  have  been  unjustly  imprisoned  for 
13  years  as  of  this  past  12  September,  for  having 
alerted 
terrorist 
organizations against Cuba. 

As  unlikely  as  it  may  seem,  the  process  of 
decolonization  has  not  ended,  and  there  remain  entire 
peoples  who  have  been  denied 
to 
independence and self determination. We welcome and 
maintain our solidarity with the peoples of Puerto Rico, 
the  Western  Sahara  and  the  struggle  of  the  Frente 
Polisario  and  with  Argentina  with  regard  to  the 
occupation of the Malvinas Islands. 

Observations  made  in  the  Assembly  in  2010 
regarding  the  need  to  achieve  a  balance  between 
human beings and Mother  Earth remain  relevant; they 
have  even 
from 
diminishing,  pressures  on  the  planet  have  increased; 
threats  have  escalated  and  real  and  potential  dangers 
have multiplied. 

Among  those,  the  Fukushima  disaster  in  Japan 
had the virtue of bringing into view the chilling global 
risk  of  radiation.  The  Japanese  crisis  has  rightly  been 
described as a nuclear war without war. Its present and 
future  repercussions,  which  have  not  yet  been  fully 
established,  are  considered  by  recognized  scientists  to 
be more serious than those of the Chernobyl disaster. 

the 
Government  and  the  heroic  people  of  Japan  —  the 
victims  of  the  earthquake  that  levelled  their  territory 
and  those  affected  by  the  Fukushima  accident  —  we 
vehemently  call  on  States  with  nuclear 
reactor 
installations  to  take  all  measures  to  avoid  similar 
accidents  that  would  gravely  endanger  people’s  health 
and would harm the environment. 
While  expressing  our 
solidarity  with 
to  conclude 
that, 
far 
their 
right 
led  us 
4 

11-51398 
for 
issue 
is  of 
in 
The 
logic  and 



upcoming  Durban  Climate  Change 
Conference and the Rio+20 Conference on Sustainable 
Development  will  provide  renewed  opportunities  — 
which we must not allow ourselves to squander — to 
truly  break  with  destructive 
redirect 
humankind  towards  development  that  is  in  harmony 
with Mother  Earth and respectful of the lives of the  7 
billion human beings now populating the planet. 

We  all  know  that  we  have  been  incapable  of 
achieving  an  accord  on  climate  change.  Although  the 
sixteenth  Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
established  a  Green  Fund  and  called 
the 
mobilization of financing for developing countries, that 
accord is far from addressing the serious damage being 
done  to  the  environment  and  Mother  Earth  or  the 
historical  responsibility  of  the  developed  countries, 
which  are  bent  on  dealing  a  final  blow  to  the  Kyoto 
Protocol so as to continue their uncontrolled emissions 
of greenhouse effect gases. 

In  Rio  and  in  Durban  we  will  be  called  upon  to 
renew  our  political  will  and  adopt  genuine,  concrete 
commitments  based  on  previous  progress  and 
commitments.  The 
transcendental 
importance  for  our  planet  and  for  human  beings. 
Development must not sacrifice life. We recall that the 
Universal  Declaration  on  the  Common  Well-Being  of 
Mother  Earth  and  of  humankind  is  an  essential  guide 
for our debates and actions. 

Looking  at  other  issues,  Nicaragua  salutes  the 
international  community’s  invitation  to  Taiwan  to 
participate 
the  assemblies  of  United  Nations 
specialized  agencies  directly  related  to  the  well-being 
of 
the  23  million  Taiwanese.  We  urge  other 
international forums to adopt similar positions. 

The  global  economic  and  financial  crisis  has 
compounded  the  already  serious  food  crisis,  primarily 
in  impoverished  countries.  We  know  that  this  crisis 
also  has  structural  causes  in  the  present  capitalist 
development  model  —  a  model  that  discourages 
internal production and impedes technology transfer to 
the  agricultural  sector  of  impoverished  countries,  a 
model without available credit or technical training for 
small  and  medium  producers,  which 
in 
production difficulties. 

Climate  change  has  become  an  additional  major 
factor  in  the  deepening  of  the  food  crisis.  The  trend 
towards higher oil prices  at the international level has 
results 
A/66/PV.27
tendencies  promoted  by 
caused  some  countries  with  an  agricultural  base  to 
begin  producing  biofuel.  That  phenomenon  has 
significantly changed food supply and demand and has 
reinforced the trend toward higher prices. 

From  the  ethical  point  of  view,  as  well  as 
political,  economic  and  social,  it  is  essential  to  take 
immediate  concerted  action  to  avoid  the  continuing 
increase  in  the  number  of  hungry  people  and  to 
develop  sustainable  policies  for  guaranteeing  food 
security worldwide. 
We  renew  our  commitment  to  the  cause  of 

general  and  complete  disarmament.  It  is  imperative 
that  we  establish  peace  on  Earth  and  provide  the 
7 billion  human  beings  who  inhabit  it,  and  Mother 
Earth  itself,  with  the  opportunity  to  survive  the 
destructive 
the  dominant 
economic model, so that humankind may develop in an 
environment  conducive  to  manifesting  our  enormous 
spiritual  and  material  capacities.  No  other  way  will 
enable us to achieve a better future. 

It is therefore unjustifiable and unacceptable that 
the  present  world  continues  to  spend  more  on  the 
development  and  testing  of  all  types  of  weapons  and 
less  on  protecting  the  life  and  development  of  human 
beings. While millions of persons suffer the effects of 
the  economic  and  financial  crisis,  global  military 
expenditures have skyrocketed. Over the past 10 years, 
those  expenditures  have  increased  by  50  per  cent,  to 
$1.5 trillion today. More than 8 million small arms and 
light  weapons  and  more  than  16  billion  munitions  are 
produced  every  year,  the  equivalent  to  more  than 
2.5 munitions  for  every  single  person  on  the  planet. 
That  arms  proliferation  causes  irreparable  direct  and 
indirect harm to peoples and their economies. 
We can end that proliferation if we decide to. It is 

not true that the arms sector is vitally important to the 
world economy. In fact, despite what the producers of 
small  arms  and  light  weapons  would  have  us  believe, 
their trade and the trade in munitions and components 
represent  less  than  0.01  per  cent  of  the  world’s 
industrial transactions. 
We are firmly convinced that because the Korean 

international 
peninsula  remains  a  focal  point  of 
tension, any solution must take place through goodwill 
and  sincere  dialogue  between  the  parties  in  order  to 
maintain peace and stability. 
11-51398 

5 

trafficking, 
trafficking,  human 
A/66/PV.27 


The  factors  called  new  threats  to  security  have 
become an outright scourge for most of our countries. 
Drug 
illegal  arms 
trafficking,  and  the  trafficking  of  immigrants,  among 
others,  constitute  ethical,  political  and  economic 
challenges  for  Central  America,  which  is  stigmatized 
today in some international reports as one of the most 
violent  regions  on  Earth.  That  stigmatization 
is 
deliberate  and  carries  serious  consequences  for  our 
countries.  It  transforms  us  into  protagonists  of  the 
problem rather than the victims we truly are, victims of 
the  lucrative  businesses  that  constitute  those  new 
threats. Through transnational networks they utilize our 
territories  as  a  bridge  from  South  to  North  and  from 
North to South, in a dance of millionaires as thousands 
of  people  are  assassinated  along  illegal  routes  and 
porous borders. 

The  International  Conference  of  Support  for  the 
Central American Security Strategy, held in Guatemala 
last  June,  exposed  the  seriousness  of  a  situation  that 
exists not only in our region, but in all of the countries 
of  the  world.  That  is  why  the  principle  of  shared  but 
differentiated  and  proportional  responsibility  must 
guide  mutual  commitments.  It  is  urgent  that  we  move 
in the right direction before it is too late for us all. 

Nicaragua  is  going  through  a  time  of  change 
aimed at reversing the negative effects of 16 long years 
under  neoliberal  Governments.  We  are  recovering 
values,  restoring  rights,  strengthening  capacities  and 
constructing  a  new  model  based  on  replacing  the 
neoliberal  model  of  untrammeled  capitalism  with  one 
based  on  Christian,  socialist  and  solidarity  principles. 
We  are  articulating  popular  democracy  through  the 
national  human  development  plan.  Together  these 
constitute  the  backbone  of  a  new  phase  of  the 
Sandinista revolution. 

These  achievements  are  due  in  large  part  to 
Nicaragua’s integration into the Bolivarian Alliance for 
the  Peoples  of  Our  Americas,  an  initiative  stemming 
from  the  genius  of  Fidel  Castro,  the  Commander  in 
Chief  of  the  Cuban  revolution,  and  of  Commander-
President  Hugo  Chávez  Frías.  This  brotherhood, 
unique 
solidarity, 
complementarity  and  fair  trade  between  our  peoples 
and  advances  the  historical  cultural  unity  of  our 
peoples. 

time,  our  national  human 
At 
development  plan  is  aimed  specifically  at  promoting 
today’s  world, 
enables 
same 
in 
the 
to 
the  first 
the  country’s  economic  and  social  health  by  adding 
jobs and reducing poverty and inequality, on a basis of 
sovereignty, security and integration. The restoration of 
the  human  and  constitutional  right  of  all  Nicaraguans 
to  free  education  is  reflected  in  the  fact  that,  in  a 
country  with  a 
total  population  of  6.5  million, 
1,821,682  students  are  now  enrolled  in  schools.  This 
year we are launching the battle for universal primary 
education, aiming at universal sixth grade education by 
2012. The goal is to achieve universal enrolment in the 
third year of secondary school by 2015. 

The  restoration  of  the  human  and  constitutional 
right  of  the  Nicaraguan  people  to  free  health  care 
means  providing  better  access  to,  and  improving  the 
quality  of,  health  services,  reducing  maternal  and 
infant  mortality,  paying  more  attention 
the 
development  of  young  people,  expanding  community 
family  health  services,  and 
large-scale 
registering  of  people  with  disabilities.  Our  Programa 
Amor is designed for boys and girls under six years old 
and for street children and adolescents, and those who 
work  during  school  terms,  in  order  to  restore  to  them 
their fundamental rights. 

In  structural  areas,  we  are  making  progress  in 
transforming the energy matrix so that by 2017, 90 per 
cent  of  energy  will  be  from  renewable  sources  and 
10 per  cent  from  fossil  fuels,  radically  inverting  the 
pyramid  we  inherited  in  2006.  We  are  enjoying 
macroeconomic  stability,  with  gross  national  product 
growth  projected  at  4  per  cent  or  more.  Our 
improvement  policies  have  increased  direct  foreign 
investment in our country’s strategic sectors. We have 
in  confronting  drug 
had  outstanding 
trafficking 
and 
crime. 
Nicaragua  is  now  recognized  as  one  of  the  safest 
countries in Latin America and the Caribbean, and the 
safest  in  Central  America.  We  have  had  indisputable 
successes  in  reducing  poverty  and  inequality,  as  has 
been recognized by international financial institutions. 

We  are  fervent  supporters  of  the  integration  and 
unity  of  Central  America,  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean.  Within  the  framework  of  the  Bolivarian 
Alliance  for  the  Peoples  of  Our  America,  we  are 
securing 
complementarity, 
investments, fair trade and solidarity.  

With  our  neighbours  and  brothers  in  Honduras 
and  El  Salvador,  we  are  working  together  for  the 
sustainable  development  of  the  Gulf  of  Fonseca. 
successes 
transnational 
our  model 
organized 
through 
6 

11-51398 
Nicaragua 
can  demonstrate 


Comrade  President  Daniel  Ortega  Saavedra  has  also 
made  several  approaches  to  the  Government  and 
people  of  our  neighbour  to  the  south,  Costa  Rica, 
concerning the possibility of joint development of our 
common border, particularly in terms of protecting and 
restoring  the  environment  and  working  on  sustainable 
economic  and  social  development  for  the  benefit  of 
both  our  peoples.  Throughout  this  process,  young 
people  and  women  have  been  at  the  forefront  of  the 
direct  democracy  model  that  is  the  essence  and 
continuity of the Sandinista revolution. 

the  profound, 
concrete  and  verifiable  economic,  social,  political, 
legislative  and  cultural  achievements  our  people  are 
undergoing. In the context of the serious crises that so 
many  countries,  developed  and  developing,  are  going 
through, our Christian, socialist, solidarity model is an 
inspiration for an ever better future.  

We  are  aware  of  our  difficulties  and  limitations. 
We know that the weight of the historical structure that 
we inherited is still a liability that we must cast off in 
our  national  development  process.  The  burdens  of 
poverty  and  underdevelopment  require  sound  policies 
and  sustained  effort  and  political  and  governing 
systems  that  have  the  necessary  commitment  to  our 
people’s  aspirations.  I  can  assure  the  Assembly  that 
through our Government of national reconciliation and 
unity we will achieve that and more. 

As  we  have  said  before,  it  is  not  easy  for 
developing countries such as ours to deal with an issue 
of  the  breadth  and  depth  of  the  global  economic  and 
financial crisis. We have yet to recover from the harsh 
effects of the last wave, while the new threat of another 
and greater crisis is bearing down on us. According to 
the  International  Monetary  Fund,  Central  America’s 
response to the previous world economic and financial 
crisis was in large part successful. We were able to deal 
with  the  situation  successfully  —  success  with  costs 
that  in  Nicaragua’s  case  were  not  passed  on  to  the 
poorest,  because  the  measures  we adopted were based 
on the interests of our country as a whole. 

As  we  consider  international  developments,  we 
must  also  turn  our  attention  to  our  own  Organization. 
Global  democratization  must  be  accompanied  by 
democratization  of  the  United  Nations  without  further 
delay.  

propuesta,  our  comrade  and 
In  his  book  La  reinvención  de  la  ONU:  una 
former 
friend, 
the 
A/66/PV.27
for  Climate 
This  proposal, 
President  of  the  Assembly,  General  Father  Miguel 
d’Escoto Brockmann — who is with us here — states 
that  it  is  urgent  that  we  give  true  meaning  to 
democracy and independence in the United Nations, so 
that the opinions of all can be heard and so that those 
opinions  really  count  in  the  decision-making  process, 
with no one being excluded. 

adopted  by  our  national 
reconciliation  and  unity  Government,  consists  of 
proposals on the United Nations charter, the statute of 
the International Court of Justice and the statute for the 
International  Tribunal 
Justice  and 
Environmental  Protection,  as  well  as  a  proposal  on  a 
draft  universal  declaration  on  the  common  good  of 
mother earth and humankind. 

Reinvention  and  re-grounding  are  key  concepts 
that  will  pave  the  way  for  an  international  system 
based  on  genuine  multilateralism  that  is  in  harmony 
with  the  changes  the  world  has  undergone  during  the 
past  few  decades.  We  must  restore  a  true  political 
dimension  to  international  law  and  to  the  rights  of 
people. 
Developed  societies  are  sinking  into  the  despair 

caused  by  unemployment,  the  lack  of  social  security, 
financial  insolvency,  the  implosion  of  established 
labour  rights  and  an  uncertain  future.  Global  Powers 
are  waging  wars  of  aggression  with  no  moral  or 
political  base,  causing  material  destruction  and 
enormous  human  suffering.  Economic  and  financial 
recovery  are  nowhere 
the  contrary, 
specialists  foresee  a  recession  even  more  serious  than 
the one we have recently experienced. 

Where  do  we  find  the  solution  we  so  urgently 
need? Where do we regain hope in the possibility of a 
different  present  and  future  world,  in  which  there  is 
peace  between  States  and  nations? 
In  which 
development  efforts  and  impressive  scientific  and 
technological advances are equitably shared? In which, 
as  the  Greek  sophist  Protagoras  put  it,  man  is  the 
measure of all things? 
According  to  many  prominent  thinkers  on  the 

global 
the  capitalist 
development  model  has  arrived.  There  is  no  time  for 
reforms. As Leonardo Boff has said,  

“We  need  to  find  another  way  of  thinking,  one 
based on principles and values that can sustain a 
new  test  of  civilization.  If  not,  we  will  have  to 
final  crisis  of 
in  sight;  on 
reality, 
the 
11-51398 

7 
A/66/PV.27 


accept a path that leads straight to the edge of the 
precipice. Dinosaurs already took that path.”  

Nicaragua is proceeding on the belief that a better 
future is possible if only we are capable of steering in a 
new direction, if we struggle for justice and peace, and 
if  we  commit  ourselves  to  the  development  and 
defence  of  the  common  good  of  the  Earth  and  of 
humankind. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

call on His Excellency Mr. Basile Ikouebe, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs and of la Francophonie of the Republic 
of the Congo. 
Mr.  Ikouebe  (Congo)  (spoke  in  French):  I  am 

honoured to take the floor from this rostrum on behalf 
of  the  President  of  the  Republic,  His  Excellency 
Mr. Denis Sassou Nguesso. 

This  past  week,  in  this  place,  we  took  part  in 
High-level Meetings that addressed the major concerns 
at  the  very  heart  of  the  actions  of  the  United  Nations 
and  those  of  its  Member  States:  non-communicable 
disease;  the  situation  in  Libya;  desertification,  land 
degradation  and  drought  in  the  context  of  sustainable 
development  and 
the 
commemoration  of 
the 
adoption of the Durban Declaration and Programme of 
Action on Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia 
and Related Intolerance; nuclear safety; and terrorism. 
Clearly,  the  conclusions  that  we  reached  at  those 
meetings  reflect  not  only 
the  political  will  and 
commitment  of  Member  States  to  provide  collective 
responses  to  those  concerns,  but  also  corroborate  our 
faith in multilateralism.  

In  unison  we  have  welcomed  the  Republic  of 
South Sudan, and we congratulate them on concluding, 
after  many  years  of  patience,  the  long  and  laborious 
process  of  negotiation  that  brought  us  the  193rd  State 
Member  of  the  United  Nations.  In  joining  the  warm 
words of welcome expressed by the delegations before 
me,  I  wish  to  reiterate  the  Congo’s  support  for  this 
young  brother  country  and 
the 
commitment  of  my  Government  to  develop  close  ties 
of friendship and cooperation with it.  

Since  its  creation,  the  United  Nations  has  put  a 
great deal of effort into the noble endeavour of freeing 
peoples  still  under  the  yoke  of  colonialism  and 
domination.  The  history  of  the  United  Nations  is 
intertwined with the emancipation of peoples. The time 
the  eradication  of  poverty; 
tenth  anniversary  of 
to  underscore 
the 
rebuilding 
the  country;  protecting 
has  therefore  come  to  do  justice  to  the  legitimate 
aspirations of the Palestinian people. The Congo hopes 
to  see  a  sovereign  Palestinian  State  emerge,  master  of 
its  own  fate,  in  this  great  universal  family,  within 
secure  and  guaranteed  borders  and  living  in  peace 
alongside the people of the State of Israel in a spirit of 
good neighbourliness and cooperation. 

With respect to the situation in Libya, particularly 
as  regards  the  consequences  for  the  subregion,  we 
agree that the restoration of peace and security remains 
a  high  priority.  For  this  reason,  I  wish  to  express  my 
Government’s  support  for  the  United  Nations  Support 
Mission in Libya. 

In the quest for a peaceful solution to the Libyan 
crisis,  the  Congo,  together  with  other  African  States 
members  of  the Ad  Hoc  High-level  Committee  of  the 
African  Union,  urges  the  authorities  of  the  National 
Transitional  Council 
their  commitments, 
particularly  with  respect  to  preserving  national  unity; 
involving  all  Libyan  stakeholders,  without  exception, 
in 
foreigners, 
particularly  African  migrant  workers;  and  opening  an 
inclusive political process for ending the crisis.  

the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo and Cameroun will 
hold  major  elections  in  several  weeks.  My  delegation 
would  like  to  see  that  process  take  place  smoothly,  in 
calm  and  peace,  in  order  to  help  democracy  take  root 
and to strengthen political stability. 

The  intolerable  situation  in  the  non-State  of 
Somalia and the ongoing civil war that has been under 
way  for  20  years,  along  with  the  unprecedented 
the 
crisis,  once 
humanitarian 
challenge 
encourage 
international 
community.  We 
the 
Transitional  Federal  Government 
to  continue  and 
strengthen  its  efforts  to  achieve  peace  within  the 
framework  of 
the 
participation  of  all  groups  that  wish  to  cooperate,  and 
to  renounce  armed  violence.  Here,  I  would  like  to 
commend the actions of the African Union Mission to 
Somalia,  particularly  for  having  made  it  possible  to 
secure Mogadishu.  

Mr.  Körösi  (Hungary),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
We  welcome  the  wave  of  international  solidarity 
the  Horn  of  Africa. 
this 
immediate  neighbourhood,  both 
the  Djibouti  Agreement,  with 

for 
In  keeping  with 
to  meet 
In  our 
again 
8 

11-51398 


momentum, the Congo has made a contribution for the 
victims of the drought in Somalia. 

The  President  has  properly  placed  the  role  of 
mediation in the peaceful settlement of disputes at the 
centre  of  the  general  debate.  For  the  prevention  and 
resolution  of  conflicts,  this  is  indeed  a  necessary  tool 
that has proven itself over the years and in all areas.  

The  experience  of  mediation  in Africa  since  the 
independence  of  the  African  States  is  replete  with 
lessons regarding the role of this mechanism in settling 
the numerous internal crises or inter-State conflicts that 
our  countries  have  experienced.  In  the  past,  the 
Organization  of African  Unity  used  meditation  almost 
systematically.  Today,  the African  Union  continues  to 
benefit  from  it.  Furthermore,  mediation  is  consistent 
with the African culture and tradition of dialogue. It is 
by  drawing  from  the  very  source  of  this  tradition  that 
the  Congo  was  able  to  launch  a  productive  internal 
dialogue that enabled it to overcome the socio-political 
turmoil of the 1990s. 

The  relevant  provisions  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter  enshrine  the  obligation  of  Member  States  to 
seek, in any dispute,  

“a  solution  by  negotiation,  enquiry,  mediation, 
conciliation,  arbitration, 
settlement, 
resort  to  regional  agencies  or  arrangements,  or 
other peaceful means of their own choice”.  
judicial 
These  provisions  offer  a  wide  range  of  possibilities 
from  among  which  to  select  the  means  appropriate  to 
bring about a peaceful settlement. 

Today  more  than  ever,  the  quest  for  peace  by 
negotiation  remains  the  only  way  to  guarantee  lasting 
peace. The threat or use of force should be considered 
only  after  having  exhausted  all  possible  political 
solutions.  The  Security  Council  should 
therefore 
strictly  limit  the  conditions  under  which  the  use  of 
force is authorized so as to avoid any manipulation or 
deterioration of a situation.  

Similarly,  the  abuse  of  the  international  justice 
system, which has become a political weapon targeting 
Africa in particular, is a dangerous aberration that must 
be corrected. 

Beyond  its  main  theme,  the  current  session  is 
being held, as have preceding sessions, at a time in our 
shared  history  when  the  United  Nations  is  solidly 
mobilized  around  its  three  main  pillars  of  activity, 
A/66/PV.27
namely,  international  peace  and  security,  economic 
development  and  sustainable  development,  as  well  as 
the  related  aspects  of  protecting  the  environment  and 
human  rights. With  respect  to  the  range  of  challenges 
old  and  new  that  the  United  Nations  is  expected  to 
meet, it will be viewed as effective and legitimate only 
if it adapts to the new realities of our world. 

United Nations reform is therefore urgent. It must 
be  based  on  the  principles  of  democracy,  justice  and 
equality. The position of the African Union on Security 
Council  reform  is  well  known  in  this  body.  The 
reforms  will  be  contingent  on  the  willingness  of  all 
Member States to make the Organization an institution 
that  embodies  modern  values  and  that  is  open  to  the 
future. 

In order for the United Nations to effectively and 
efficiently  fulfil  its  key  role  in  steering  global  affairs, 
its  Member  States  must  carry  out  reforms,  first  to 
restore the central role of the General Assembly as the 
most  representative  deliberative  body,  and  then  to 
foster the participation of more developing countries in 
the decision-making process.  
The global challenges identified by heads of State 

and  Government  at  the  Millennium  Summit,  held  in 
September  2000,  include  sustainable  development  and 
environmental  protection.  These  issues  have  figured 
prominently  in  international  negotiations  for  many 
years  and  influence  the  implementation  of  the  two 
United  Nations 
the 
environment.  
The causes of climate change and their impact on 

human  life  and  the  environment  are  well  known. 
Regardless 
proffered, 
environmental  pollution  is  caused  by  human  activity. 
Consequently, we hope that the negotiations on a post-
Kyoto climate regime will conclude with the adoption, 
at  the  seventeenth  session  of  the  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on  Climate  Change,  to  be  held  soon  in  Durban,  of  an 
international  instrument  that  could  be  opened  for 
signature at the Rio+20 Conference.  

In  Central  Africa,  the  countries  of  the  Congo 
Forest  Basin,  for  their  part,  have  made  a  commitment 
to 
through 
conservation,  forest  certification,  combating  illegal 
the  gradual 
logging,  good 
streamlining 
and 
implementation  of  the  process  to  reduce  emissions 
framework  conventions  on 
sustainably  manage 
forest  governance, 
their 
forests 
explanations 
of 
the 
logging 
industry 
of 
the 
11-51398 

9 

and 
to 
forest  degradation 
A/66/PV.27 

from  deforestation 
in 
developing  countries.  This  effort,  which  should  be 
continued, has resulted in very low deforestation rates. 
This  is  one  of  Central Africa’s  major  contributions  to 
global  efforts 
reduce  greenhouse  gases.  The 
international community should support and encourage 
it. 

On  the  initiative  of  the  Republic  of  the  Congo, 
the  first  summit  on  the  world’s  three  tropical  forest 
ecosystems  was  held  in  Brazzaville  from  29  May  to 
3 June.  That  summit,  which  brought  together  the 
countries  of  the Amazon,  South-East Asia  and  Congo 
Basins,  resulted  in  the  conclusion  of  a  cooperation 
agreement  on  these  three  tropical  forest  ecosystems 
with the support of United Nations agencies and other 
partners.  The  agreement  is  to  be  signed  in  Rio  de 
Janeiro  on  the  sidelines  of  the  World  Summit  on 
Sustainable  Development,  to  be  held  in  June  2012.  In 
that  regard,  I  wish  to  express  the  gratitude  of  the 
Congolese  Government 
to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon for his personal support to this initiative. 

As  the Assembly  is  aware,  the  conservation  and 
sustainable management of forests requires substantial 
human,  material  and  financial  resources,  which  forest 
developing countries do not have. Those countries  are 
desperately  awaiting  the  release  of  the  “fast  start” 
at 
funds 
Copenhagen  and 
innovative, 
predictable and permanent sources of funding agreed at 
Cancún,  as  well  as  technology  transfer  and  capacity-
building.  

In  mentioning  these  climate  and  environmental 
issues,  I  cannot  but  think  of  Mrs.  Wangari  Maathai, 
who  passed  away  yesterday.  I  pay  tribute  to  the 
memory  of  this  first  Nobel  Prize-winning  woman  of 
African  politics,  who  the  world  will  remember  as  an 
avant-garde  activist 
the 
environment.  Her  commitment  to  reforestation  and 
restoring  biodiversity  won  her  the  recognition  of  the 
countries  of  Central  Africa,  who  designated  her  as  a 
Goodwill  Ambassador  for  the  Congo  Basin  Forest.  I 
should  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  my 
deepest condolences to the Government and the people 
of Kenya, as well as to the family of the deceased.  

The  events  taking  place  in  the  Arab  world  are 
replete  with  lessons,  as  were  the  enormous  changes 
that  transformed  the  European  landscape  after  the  fall 
of  the  Berlin Wall,  in  1989.  Everywhere,  the  hymn  of 
counties 
the  delivery  of 
announced 
the 
to  protect 
developed 
the  fight 
that 
in 
freedom  and  democracy  has  resounded. We  know  that 
the overthrow of a political regime does not necessarily 
bring freedom and democracy. They must be won and 
nurtured  by  other  victories  that  cannot  be  imposed 
from without. The world has changed and we must face 
the facts inherent in these new geopolitical challenges, 
which have led to the emergence of new forces on the 
international stage. Freedom of expression thrives here, 
in  the  United  Nations.  Let  democracy  not  stop  on  its 
threshold. The United Nations must be the sanctuary of 
those  who  are  building  the  future. A  safer,  fairer  and 
more prosperous world for all will then emerge. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Georges  Rebelo  Chikoti,  Minister  of 
External Relations of Angola. 
Mr.  Chikoti  (Angola)  (spoke  in  Portuguese; 

English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  would  like 
to take this opportunity to congratulate the President of 
the  General Assembly  on  his  election  to  preside  over 
the work of the Assembly at its sixty-sixth session and 
to  assure  him  of Angola’s  support  and  cooperation  in 
ensuring  success  in  the  work  of  this  session.  I  also 
want  to  express  our  gratitude  to  his  predecessor, 
Mr. Joseph  Deiss,  for  the  competent  and  impartial 
manner  in  which  he  conducted  the  proceedings  of  the 
Assembly at its sixty-fifth session.  

Allow  me  to  also  congratulate  the  Secretary-
General on his reappointment and to assure him of my 
Government’s  support  for  the  success  of  his  very 
complex  and  demanding  mission  in  the  service  of 
peace and cooperation among nations, a cornerstone of 
the  mandate  embodied 
the 
Organization. 

We congratulate the Republic of South Sudan on 
its  admission  as  a  Member  of  the  United  Nations. We 
wish South Sudan a future of peace and prosperity and 
would  like  to  say  that  the  Government  of  Angola 
stands ready to cooperate with this new State’s efforts 
to consolidate its independence and its socio-economic 
development. 

of 
UN-Women.  We  are  certain  that  it  will  give  further 
impetus to the promotion and empowerment of women 
and the achievement of their legitimate rights. 

This session of the General Assembly takes place 
at  a  particularly  complex  juncture  in  the  international 
situation, which is characterized by so many crises that 
the  Charter  of 
also  welcome 
establishment 
We 
the 
in 
10 

11-51398 


I  believe  it  is  not  an  exaggeration  to  say  that  they 
challenge  the  very  foundations  of  our  international 
Organization.  If  we  were  to  list  them,  although  not 
exhaustively,  we  could  mention  the  current  economic 
and  financial  crisis,  which  triggered  the  most  serious 
social  crisis  witnessed  to  date  by  our  generation;  a 
dangerous  environmental  crisis  of  unpredictable 
consequences for the future of humankind, which will 
be irreversible unless the international community as a 
whole  applies  immediate  and  courageous  measures; 
and  a  general  escalation  of  violence  and  outbreak  of 
conflict,  which,  combined  with  the  environmental 
crisis, has caused the most serious humanitarian  crisis 
that  humankind  has  witnessed  since  the  end  of  the 
Second World War. In brief, we are living in dangerous 
times,  where  a  combination  of  factors  is  endangering 
stability, peace and security in the world. 

The analysis of the current international situation 
made  by  the  majority  of  the  speakers  who  preceded 
me, and which we agree with, constitutes an appeal to 
our collective responsibility. 

A  particularly  disturbing  factor  is  the  current 
economic  and  financial  crisis,  which  has  affected 
virtually  every  country  in  the  world,  in  particular 
developing  countries,  with  serious  consequences  for 
political stability and social cohesion. 

It  is  therefore  urgent  that  we  find  solutions  to 
these  problems.  That  will 
require  strengthening 
international cooperation on the basis of greater justice 
and  equality.  Moreover,  it  is  urgent  that  we  take 
measures aimed at deepening economic reforms within 
States 
that  promote  economic  growth  and  social 
development. 

the 
Angola 
international  economic  and  financial  crisis.  We  have 
therefore adopted a set of measures to mitigate its most 
adverse  effects.  Without  prejudice  to  the  maintenance 
of  macroeconomic  balance,  we  have 
focused 
considerable  resources  on  social  development  and 
combating poverty. 

the  General 
Assembly —  “The role of mediation in  the settlement 
of  disputes  through  peaceful  means”  —  reflects  the 
deep  concern  of  the  international  community  with 
regard  to  the  need  for  an  integrated  approach  to 
resolving conflicts that affect it. That is what makes it 
necessary 
implement  mediation  efforts  after 
conflicts  have  started.  Conflict  prevention  should  be 
this  session  of 
extensively 
theme  of 
affected 
The 
by 
to 
is 
is 
to 
11-51398 

11 
A/66/PV.27
law, 
international 
the  key  element  in  the  management  of  any  area  of 
tension. 

Respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, the 
rule  of  law  and  good  governance  are  key  elements  in 
ensuring that any human society can live in peace and 
harmony.  They  are  also 
the  main  guarantors  of 
effective conflict prevention. 

There are other elements I would like to mention 
that are also important causes of the spread of conflict. 
I  am  referring  here  to  external  interference,  which,  in 
gross  violation  of 
frequently 
obstructs  efforts  at  mediation  and  peaceful  resolution 
and prevents the reaching of solutions to conflicts. 

Angola  has  paid  a  very  high  price  as  a  result  of 
such  interference,  which  for  too  long  compounded  a 
fratricidal  conflict  that  Angolans  were  finally  able  to 
settle and wisely overcome with magnanimity, fairness 
and inclusion, thanks to the leadership of our President. 
The role of Angola and its contribution to internal and 
regional peace should be seen in the broader context of 
conflict  resolution.  In  that  regard,  the  implementation 
of the landmark Security Council resolution 435 (1978) 
led  to  the  independence  of  Namibia  and  created  the 
conditions for peaceful coexistence in a region that had 
endured extreme hostility and constituted a permanent 
threat to world peace. 
the 

Imbued  with 
Government of Angola has spared no effort in pursuing 
its policy of effective reconciliation, which has allowed 
the  reconciliation  of  all 
its  children  who  were 
previously  involved  in  the  conflict.  There  has  been 
genuine investment in peace, which has been a decisive 
factor  in  the  process  of  post-conflict  reconstruction. 
Angola  has  served  as  a  reference  point  for  the 
resolution of several conflicts on the African continent. 
Moreover,  we  have  spared  no  effort  in  sharing  our 
experiences with other peoples and countries.  

Also  in  the  context  of  conflict  resolution,  it  is 
important  to  strengthen  the  role  of  multilateralism 
while adhering to the principle of shared responsibility 
and  shared  benefits, 
legitimate 
interests  of  all  parties  and  engaging  in  consultations 
and  dialogue  in  the  search  for  workable  solutions  to 
international peace and security issues. 
the 

instruments  of  cooperation  between 
the  Security 
Council and the African Union, as well as to the role of 
therefore  a  need 
recognizing 
spirit  of 
fraternity, 
to  refer 
There 
the 
a 
With  regard 
to  strengthen 
threats 
regional 
institutions 
resolving  conflicts  and 
to  peace  and  security.  In 
to  peaceful  cooperation  at 
A/66/PV.27 

the  United  Nations  and 
in 
preventing  and  resolving  conflicts.  It  is  of  crucial 
importance 
the  action  of  regional 
organizations in the management of situations that may 
constitute 
that 
connection,  the  Security  Council  has  the  primary  role 
in  preventing  and 
in 
maintaining  peace,  in  accordance  with  the  powers 
conferred upon it by the Charter of the United Nations.  

The  central  theme  of  our  debate  has  drawn 
attention  to  the  need  for  reform  of  the  Security 
Council,  including  the  imperative  of  achieving  fair 
representation  for  all  regions  and 
the 
number  of  permanent  members,  thereby  adapting  the 
Council to contemporary reality. 

the 
regional  level,  Angola  is  a  member  of  the  Southern 
African  Development  Community 
the 
Economic  Community  of  Central  African  States,  the 
Gulf  of  Guinea  Commission  and  the  Community  of 
Portuguese-speaking  Countries  (CPLP),  which,  with 
several  partners,  has  acted  on  the  basis  of  preventive 
diplomacy  in  the  search  for  peaceful  solutions  to  the 
various crises that have arisen. 

in 
Madagascar, SADC mediated the recent signing by all 
parties 
the 
implementation of the reconciliation process, which is 
intended  to  lead  to  elections  and  the  restoration  of 
constitutional 
important 
breakthrough in the process, which Angola welcomes. 

Guinea-Bissau, our brotherly country and partner 
in  the  Community  of  Portuguese-speaking  Countries, 
has been the subject of special attention by Angola. As 
part  of  the  CPLP,  Angola  and  other  member  States 
have  striven  to  establish  a  strategic  partnership  with 
the Economic Community of West African States under 
the coordination of the United Nations, aiming to bring 
political stability to the country so that it can carry out 
major structural reforms, in particular the reform of the 
defence and security sectors. We welcome the positive 
developments that the country is now experiencing and 
we  encourage  the  authorities  of  Guinea-Bissau  to 
vigorously pursue the process of stabilization. 
The  drought  in  the  Horn  of Africa  is  a  cause  of 

deepest  concern  for  my  country  and 
the  entire 
international community. The consequences of drought 
in  Somalia  are  felt  even  more  profoundly  due  to  the 
order.  That  was 
With  regard 
to 
the  constitutional  crisis 
road  map 
for 
involved  of 
the 
increasing 
(SADC), 
an 

the 
joined 
prevalence  of  armed  conflict,  which  compounds  the 
humanitarian crisis, shocks the world’s conscience and 
calls  for  a  redoubled  effort  by  the  international 
community.  Angola  has 
international 
humanitarian  assistance  efforts  under  way,  as  well  as 
the  search  for  political  solutions  to  end  the  armed 
conflict and open new prospects for a better future for 
the Somali people. 

With regard to the situation in Libya, the Angolan 
Government  hopes  that  the  Libyan  people  can  find 
stability  in  the  very  near  term.  That  can  only  be 
achieved through the free  exercise of their democratic 
rights.  In  that  regard,  Angola  urges  the  National 
Transitional  Council 
to  promote  genuine  national 
reconciliation and to form an inclusive Government, as 
those  are  prerequisites  for  ensuring  that  Libya  can 
regain its rightful place in the African and international 
arenas. However, we must make use of lessons learned 
with  a  view  to  achieving  more  effective  cooperation 
between  external  partners  and  the  African  Union  in 
seeking  joint  solutions  based  on  international  law  and 
mutual respect. 

Angola  remains  concerned  about  the  limited 
progress in addressing the problem of Western Sahara, 
which  remains  an  important  issue  on  the  international 
agenda.  We  call  on  the  warring  parties  to  resume 
negotiations  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations 
and  the African  Union,  so  that  the  people  of  Western 
Sahara can exercise their right to self-determination. 

The  situation  in  the  Middle  East,  particularly  in 
the  Palestinian  territories,  is  one  of  the  most  serious 
problems  facing  the  international  community.  Angola 
is  witnessing  with  great  concern  the  escalation  of  the 
conflict and the lack of progress towards a solution of 
the  Palestinian  question.  In  line  with  the  general 
position  of  the  international  community  regarding  the 
conflict, my country advocates the establishment of an 
independent Palestinian State, living side by side with 
the State of Israel, in peace and security, within secure 
internationally recognized borders. 

As in previous sessions, the sixty-sixth session of 
General  Assembly  will  address  the  embargo  imposed 
on Cuba, which violates the rules of international free 
trade.  In  spite  of  the  timid  steps  taken  towards 
normalizing the situation, Angola reiterates its position 
of principle by reaffirming the need to end the embargo 
against Cuba. 
12 

11-51398 
the  newest  Member  of 



Angola  has  been  making  its  contribution  to 
finding solutions to the most pressing problems. Within 
the  broader  international  community,  we  have  sought 
to cooperate with all countries based on mutual respect 
and interests, upholding the highest ideals of peace and 
cooperation for development. We will continue on this 
path,  firmly  believing  that  the  defence  and  promotion 
of  these  principles  contribute  to  the  development  and 
advancement of all peoples. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  John  M.  Silk,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of the Marshall Islands. 
Mr.  Silk  (Marshall  Islands):  On  behalf  of 

President  Jurelang  Zedkaia,  I  bring  warm  greetings 
from  the  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands  to  the 
General Assembly. The Marshall Islands also welcomes 
South  Sudan  as 
the 
Organization. 
The Marshall Islands congratulates the Secretary-

General  for  making  nuclear  disarmament  and  nuclear 
safety  a  top  priority  at  the  United  Nations  during  his 
second term. Fifty-seven years ago, at the dawn of the 
Cold  War,  the  United  Nations  held  the  Marshallese 
people  in  trust.  Marshallese  leaders  petitioned  the 
United  Nations  to  put  a  halt  to  the  testing  of  nuclear 
weapons.  The  United  Nations 
responded  with 
Trusteeship  Council  resolutions  1082  (XIV),  adopted 
in  1954,  and  1493  (XVII),  adopted  in  1956.  Acting 
with  assurances  of  our  protection,  the  United  Nations 
and  its  administering  authority,  the  United  States, 
detonated  67  large-scale  nuclear  explosions  in  the 
Marshall  Islands.  For  decades,  Marshallese  leaders 
have  returned  to  the  United  Nations  to  speak  of  the 
continuing impacts — cancer, fear and continued exile 
from  our  homeland  —  and  of  a  science  where 
goalposts are always moving. 
Three  weeks  ago,  the  leaders  of  the  Pacific 

Islands  Forum, 
their  communiqué,  not  only 
recognized  the  special  responsibility  of  the  United 
States  of  America  but  also  agreed  to  support  the 
Marshall  Islands  at  the  United  Nations,  including  in 
addressing  the issue of the Secretary-General’s  report. 
The  United  Nations  has  a  clear  responsibility  to 
acknowledge  and  address the consequences  of nuclear 
testing  undertaken  under  its  watch  —  and  a  special 
responsibility  has  already  been  acknowledged  by  the 
parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons. 
in 
A/66/PV.27
the 
in  addressing 
to  understand  how 

Last  year,  the  General  Assembly  requested  the 
Secretary-General  to  report  on  the  effects  of  atomic 
radiation in the Marshall Islands. Such a report would 
represent  the  potential  for  the  Marshall  Islands,  the 
United  States  and  the  United  Nations  to  take  a  very 
positive  step  forward  towards  understanding  our  past, 
bringing closure to this sad chapter in our history and 
beginning 
international 
community  can  assist  us 
future 
remediation challenges. The involvement of the United 
Nations is key. 

Sadly, I am concerned that the Secretary-General 
has  thus  far  neglected  this  critical  opportunity.  The 
United Nations Scientific Committee on the Effects of 
Atomic  Radiation,  which  was  invited  to  contribute  to 
the  Secretary-General’s  efforts  to  assemble  a  report, 
has termed the General Assembly’s deliberate mandate 
to be “not appropriate” and “an apparent error” in need 
of formal correction (A/66/46, para. 13). 

That  is  not  only  insensitive  but  it  reveals  that 
perhaps  the  United  Nations  itself  has  yet  to  come  to 
terms  with,  or  even  to  merely  acknowledge,  its 
decisions  on  nuclear  safety  taken  60  years  ago.  That 
negative approach could preclude efforts to bring to the 
attention of this body important scientific work that has 
been done in assessing the consequences of the nuclear 
testing in the Marshall Islands. 

It  is  our  hope  that  United  Nations  will  have  the 
courage  and  will  to  rise  above  the  past  and  make  a 
difference, rather than allow itself to remain controlled 
by  history,  and  make  excuses.  As  I  said  earlier,  for 
decades,  Marshallese  leaders  have  returned  to  the 
United Nations to repeatedly speak of the legacy of the 
nuclear  testing  in  our  country.  It  is  my  hope  that  one 
day a new generation of Marshallese leaders will come 
to this forum not to speak of this sad legacy, but rather 
to proclaim that the work is done and that all is well. 

The  impacts  of  nuclear  testing  are  not  the  only 
historical  legacy  from  international  actors  in  the 
Marshall  Islands.  Unexploded  ordnance  from 
the 
Second World War and oil leakage are persistent issues 
for our outer island communities. They pose threats to 
our  human  security,  public  health  and  environmental 
safety.  We  welcome  the  attention  of  Pacific  Island 
Forum leaders, and we join the call for assistance from 
international bodies and development partners. 
The Republic of the Marshall Islands is not just a 

small  island  State;  we  are  a  large  ocean  nation. 
11-51398 

13 

A/66/PV.27 

Together,  the  oceanscape  of  the  Pacific  islands  is  an 
area that covers 10 per cent of the world’s surface and 
is  four  times  the  size  of  Europe. The  way  we  manage 
our  maritime  space  is  therefore  a  central  pillar  in  our 
basic  development  aspirations,  and  has  significant 
implications for the health of global oceans. 

International  commitments  to  ensure  sustainable 
fisheries  and  to  visibly  advance  our  development 
aspirations can no longer be paid mere lip service and 
then  later  be  ignored  by  our  partners  in  regional 
processes,  including  the  Western  and  Central  Pacific 
Fisheries  Commission. The  Marshall  Islands  presently 
only  sees  a  penny  of  benefit  for  every  dollar  of  the 
market  value  of  our  Pacific  tuna.  The  conservation 
measures  by  the  parties  to  the  Nauru  Agreement, 
including  the  Vessel  Day  Scheme  and  high  seas 
closures,  must  be  implemented  by  our  partners,  not 
only to reduce pressure on overfished stocks but also to 
ensure our rightful place as a full economic actor. 

Twenty  years  ago,  global  leaders  meeting  at  Rio 
de Janeiro set forward a high international benchmark 
for  sustainable  development,  crafting  a  range  of 
strategies  and  commitments.  Next  year,  the  critical 
United  Nations 
Sustainable 
Development must not only focus on moving towards a 
global  green  economy  but  must  also  pay  specific 
attention  to  a  global  “blue  economy”  —  one  that 
ensures  specific,  measurable  and  time-bound  targets 
for guaranteeing the sustainability of the global oceans 
and  their  fish  stocks,  particularly  in  regions  dotted  by 
small  island  States  like  my  own.  Greater  commitment 
is needed to utilize targeted global high seas closures, 
thereby  ensuring  sustainable  fisheries,  as  we  are 
already doing in the Pacific. The hour is past for vague 
rhetoric. Leaders must respond with action rather than 
continued neglect for the world’s oceans. 

The Marshall Islands warmly welcomed the visit 
this  month  by  the  Secretary-General  to  the  Pacific 
region.  The  Secretary-General  was  able  to  see  for 
himself  the  vulnerability  and  existential  threat  facing 
low-lying 
rightfully 
challenged  world  leaders  to  respond.  What  were  once 
theoretical  and  distant  risks  are  now  on  the  verge  of 
becoming our reality. 

International  climate  negotiations  are  at  serious 
risk  of  entering  a  phase  of  political  stalemate. 
Negotiators  have  spent  more  than  two  decades  in 
complicated processes that have delivered very little in 
island  States.  He  has  now 
Conference 
on 
threat 
for  clarifying 
the 
incontrovertible 
terms of practical action to mitigate the climate change 
problem. Often blocked by only a handful of countries, 
the  international  community  is  still  unable  to  commit 
to  emissions  cuts  and  targets  sufficient  to  ensure  the 
survival  of  the  Marshall  Islands  and  other  low-lying 
nations. 

The Marshall Islands can wait no longer. We are 
now choosing creative paths to drive urgency into our 
broken  negotiations  and  to  pursue  practical  initiatives 
to  address  the  threats  and  risks.  First,  the  Marshall 
Islands  joined  with  the  Government  of  Mexico  in 
urging  the  United  Nations  in  its  coming  Climate 
Change  Conference  to  consider  the  use  of  voting  as  a 
means of last resort. Secondly, in July, we joined with 
our Pacific small island developing States colleagues to 
push for the Security Council to recognize that climate 
change  now  poses  an 
to 
international peace and security.  

We reiterate our call for the Secretary-General to 
report  on  those  threats.  Petty  arguments  about  forums 
and  mandates  cannot  be  allowed  to  prevail  at  the  risk 
of our statehood. All organs of the United Nations must 
now  be  proactively  engaged.  We  do  not  need 
sympathy; we need solutions and political innovation. 
Thirdly, the Marshall Islands is carefully studying 

options 
international 
obligations related to climate change and how it affects 
our  statehood.  Working  with  our  close  neighbour,  the 
Republic  of  Palau,  we  are  committed  to  pursuing 
requests for legal advisory opinions from international 
tribunals  in  order  to  recognize  the  international  legal 
principles  that  address  questions  of  our  survival  and 
security  in  the  context  of  climate  risks.  We  have  also 
agreed  to  work  with  Palau  and  other  vulnerable  and 
low-lying countries to formulate and advance our own 
legally  binding  climate  agreement.  We,  the  most 
vulnerable, must act when others lack the political will 
to do so.  

As  a  significant  global  economic  leader,  Taiwan 
can make substantial contributions to the international 
community.  The  Republic  of  the  Marshall  Islands 
welcomes 
increased  dialogue  on  key  cross-Strait 
issues.  That  progress  deserves  recognition  by  the 
international  community.  Given 
the  primary 
to  maintain 
purpose  of 
international  peace, 
to 
overlook  Taiwan’s  strong  efforts  in  promoting  peace 
the  world  cannot  afford 
the  United  Nations 
relevant 
that 
is 
14 

11-51398 
The  2009 
invitation  by 


and stability in the Asia-Pacific region, including with 
regard to climate change. 

the  World  Health 
Organization  for  Taiwan  to  participate  as  an  observer 
has  not  only  benefited  global  medical  progress, 
including  on  non-communicable  diseases,  but  also 
serves as an effective model for its wider participation 
in other key organizations. We urge the United Nations 
and  its  Member  States  to  consider  that  model  and 
develop  effective  means  for  Taiwan’s  participation  in 
specialized  agencies,  including  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change  and  the 
International Civil Aviation Organization. 

The  Security  Council  must  transform  itself  into 
an  effective  and  contemporary  body.  The  Security 
Council  should  be  restructured  to  accommodate  those 
nations  whose  size,  leadership  and  responsibility,  in 
particular the Group of Four — Japan, Germany, India 
and  Brazil  —  warrants  a  permanent  presence  in  the 
Council. Further efforts should be made to ensure that 
Africa and small nations, including island States, have 
improved access and an amplified voice. 
The  General  Assembly  witnessed  a  historic 

moment  last  week,  in  which,  for  the  first  time,  the 
general  debate  was  initiated  by  a  woman,  namely, 
President  Rousseff  of  Brazil.  The  Marshall  Islands 
welcomes the Secretary-General’s  renewed priority on 
addressing 
strengthened 
UN-Women institution, particularly in the Pacific. 

The message for nuclear weapons, global security 
and climate change is the same: international law is not 
an empty promise. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Antoine  Gambi,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Central African Republic. 
Mr. Gambi (Central African Republic) (spoke in 

French): At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  convey  to  the 
President,  on  behalf  of  His  Excellency Army  General 
François  Bozizé,  Head  of  State  and  President  of  the 
Central  African  Republic,  who  it  is  my  honour  to 
represent  here,  our  heartfelt  congratulations  on  his 
election  to  preside  over  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-sixth  session.  He  can  rest  assured  of  our  full 
readiness  to  cooperate  with  him  to  ensure  the  success 
of his challenging task. I  would also like to pay well-
deserved  tribute  to  his  predecessor,  His  Excellency 
Mr. Joseph Deiss, for the talent and dedication that he 
including 
gender, 
a 
11-51398 

15 
that 
A/66/PV.27
recalled 
that 
to  be 
the  primary  mission  of 
demonstrated  as  he  steered  our  work  throughout  the 
sixty-fifth session of the Assembly. To His Excellency 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, I convey my heartfelt 
congratulations on his reappointment to the head of the 
Organization.  
Lastly,  the  Central  African  Republic  welcomes 

the 
admission  of  South  Sudan, 
a  brotherly 
neighbouring  country,  as  the  193rd  Member  State  of 
the United Nations. 

In  proposing  “The  role  of  mediation  in  the 
settlement  of  disputes  through  peaceful  means”  as  the 
central  theme  of  the  general  debate  of  the  sixty-sixth 
session  of  the Assembly,  the  President  has  placed  our 
deliberations  at  the  very  heart  of  those  problems  that 
are of current concern to the international community. 
It  must  be 
the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security  around  the  world 
continues 
the 
Organization,  and  that,  for  Member  States,  mediation 
continues  to  be  an  indispensable  tool  in  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  conflicts.  The  Central  African  Republic 
remains  committed  to  the  principles  of  the  United 
Nations  Charter,  which  enshrines  language  pertaining 
to  the  peaceful  settlement  of  conflicts  —  principally 
through mediation and prevention. 

faces  many 
challenges  to  which  we  need  to  provide  tailored 
responses in order to together build a better world.  

We  attach  particular  attention  to  the  issue  of 
climate  change  and  the  environment.  Protecting  the 
environment  and  combating  climate  change  are  major 
challenges,  as  well  a  priority  for  the  international 
community,  given  the  many  and  varied  risks  that  they 
pose to ecosystems and economies.  

The  commemoration,  next  year,  of  the  twentieth 
anniversary  of  the  first  Earth  Summit  on  sustainable 
development  will  be  devoted  to  forests.  Tropical 
in 
forests, 
those 
the  Central  African 
Republic,  are  exposed 
to  various  harmful  and 
destructive  activities  associated  with  the  pressure 
exerted  by  social  problems  and  natural  disasters.  The 
countries  concerned  have  recognized  the  need  to 
formulate  land-use  policies  in  order  to  conserve  their 
biodiversity, both in terms of flora and fauna, in these 
regions.  

is  currently 
afflicting  the  Horn  of  Africa,  where  approximately 
the  drought 
Furthermore, 
international 
community 
including 
The 
to  fully  shoulder 
Today, 
Nuclear  non-proliferation 
terrorism  remains  a  scourge  of 
A/66/PV.27 

12 million  human  lives  are  threatened,  is  a  source  of 
major  concern  and  requires  broad-scale  mobilization 
by the international community.  

That brings me to the issue of food security. The 
Central African Republic will support a draft resolution 
on food development, some provisions of which would 
be  incorporated  in  the  various  resolutions  of  the 
Assembly  and 
in  other  United  Nations  meetings 
throughout the year. 

and  disarmament 
remain  a  priority.  The  Central  African  Republic 
welcomes  the  renewed  interest  in  disarmament  on  the 
part of the international community. Greatly concerned 
by the nuclear threat to all of humankind, non-nuclear-
weapon  States  are  entitled  to  call  upon  those  who 
possess  nuclear  weapons 
their 
responsibilities  by  implementing  specific  measures  to 
bring about genuine nuclear disarmament. For its part, 
the  Central  African  Republic  will  spare  no  effort  to 
support any United Nations initiative to that end. 

the 
international community. In resolution 1963 (2010), the 
Security  Council  declared  its  intent  to  hold  a  special 
meeting of the Counter-Terrorism Committee (CTC) on 
28  September  2011,  open  to  all  United  Nations 
Member  States,  to  mark  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the 
adoption of its resolution 1373 (2001) establishing the 
CTC.  It  should  be  recalled  that  the  CTC  has  done  a 
great  deal  in  assisting  Member  States  in  undertaking 
actions  to  combat  this  scourge  by  strengthening  the 
implementation  of  standards  and  border  controls,  as 
well as in the fight against the financing of terrorism. 

The Central African Republic remains committed 
to the universal values of human rights, democracy and 
good  governance.  We  reaffirm  our  commitment  to 
working  throughout  this  sixty-sixth  session  with  the 
other  Members  of  the  United  Nations  to  provide 
responses that uphold those values.  
The fight against impunity and against violations 

of human rights is a given for our community. We hope 
to  see  it  placed  within  an  overall  approach  that  does 
not  hinder  the  process  of  political  crisis  and  conflict 
resolution around the world or undermine regional and 
international efforts provided for by the United Nations 
Charter. 

The  Central  African  Republic  attaches  special 
importance  to  the  reform  of  this  Organization  and  all 

its  bodies  with  regard  to  their  structures,  modes  of 
operation  and  work  methods.  For  this  reason,  we 
remain committed to the African position regarding the 
Security  Council.  Indeed,  in  all  the  ongoing  crises  in 
the world, the Security Council has gradually imposed 
the  authority  of  the  United  Nations,  placing  it  at  the 
service of international peace and security. Its action is 
and  remains  legitimate.  Its  authority  will  be  further 
strengthened  when  we  reach  an  agreement  on  its 
expansion, which will enable us to take the emergence 
of new Powers into account by giving a more equitable 
place to all continents. 

Like  many  African  States,  my  country  has  been 
engaged  on  the  path  towards  democratic  governance 
since the 1990s. As part of our democratic process, we 
have  endeavoured  to  improve  the  management  of 
public  policy  on  the  political,  economic  and  social 
fronts. We are aware that much remains to be done in 
these spheres.  

The  renewed  trust  of  the  Central African  in  His 
Excellency  General  of  the  Army  François  Bozizé 
Yangouvonda,  President  of  the  Republic  and  Head  of 
State,  has  given  him  the  opportunity  to  pursue  the 
successful  task  he  began  on  15  March  2003.  We  are 
determined to break with instability and at long last to 
turn the page on political-military upheavals. That will 
enable him to focus on reconstruction. In other words, 
we  will  do  everything  to  consolidate  that  peace  that 
guarantees  enduring  development.  Without  peace  and 
security,  there  can  be  no  economic  development  that 
benefits the population as a whole.  

It is from this standpoint that the Central African 
Government  held  a  round  table  in  Brussels  with  our 
development  partners  on  16  and  17  June  in  order  to 
raise  the  awareness  of  the  international  community 
with  respect  to  the  funding  needs  of  the  programmes 
outlined in the second poverty reduction strategy paper. 

The  matter  of  security  remains  at  the  very  heart 
of  our  concerns.  Part  of  the  population  of  the  Central 
African Republic continues to suffer the aggression of 
rebels belonging to the Lord’s Resistance Army (LRA) 
of  Joseph  Kony. The  activity  of  the  LRA,  a  cruel  and 
barbaric  rebellion  from  a  country  that  shares  no 
borders with the Central African Republic, remains the 
source  of  atrocities,  destruction,  looting,  rape,  forced 
recruitment  and  the  deportation  of  men,  women  and 
children.  Mobilization  on  all  sides  and  the  shared 
16 

11-51398 
the 
initiatives  of 


allocation  of  resources  are  needed  to  eradicate  that 
scourge once and for all. 

The Government of the Central African Republic 
greatly  appreciates 
the  United 
Nations,  the  African  Union  and  the  United  States  on 
this issue. We continue to believe that the Republic of 
South  Sudan  will  join  other  affected  countries  in  this 
relentless  struggle  against  a  cross-border  enemy  that 
harbours  vague  ambitions  harmful  to  the  stability 
required for development of our subregion. 
The  December  2010  withdrawal  of  the  United 

Nations  Mission  in  the  Central  African  Republic  and 
Chad left  a security vacuum that my  country is trying 
to  fill  despite  our  limited  resources.  The  same  holds 
true  for Mission for the Consolidation of Peace in the 
Central  African  Republic  deployed  by  the  Economic 
Community  of  Central African  States,  whose  mandate 
expires at the end of December 2013. 
Reinforcing  the  capacities  of  our  defence  and 

security forces, which are slated to take over from the 
international forces, is still far from complete. I should 
like  here  to  thank  the  United  Nations  through  its 
Peacebuilding  Fund,  which  has  been  supporting  the 
Central African Republic in its tireless quest for peace 
and stability. 

In the light of all this, I appeal once again to the 
international community to take urgent action in order 
to  build  peace  and  prevent  conflict  in  the  Central 
African  Republic.  We  welcome 
in  advance  all 
commitments  that  have  been  or  will  be  made  on  our 
behalf.  We  are  convinced  that  the  dividends  of  those 
efforts  will  benefit  both  the  Central African  Republic, 
which lies at the heart of the African continent, and the 
entire subregion. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Surujrattan  Rambachan,  Minister  of 
Foreign  Affairs  and  Communications  of  the  Republic 
of Trinidad and Tobago. 
Mr.  Rambachan
and  Tobago): 

Mr. President,  I  congratulate  Mr.  Al-Nasser  on  his 
election  to  preside  over  the  sixty-sixth  session  of  the 
General  Assembly,  and  extend  the  best  wishes  of  the 
Prime  Minister  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Mrs.  Kamla 
Persad-Bissessar, and of the Government and people of 
my country, on whose behalf I address the Assembly. 

Member of the United Nations. 
I  also  welcome  South  Sudan  as  the  newest 
(Trinidad 
A/66/PV.27
things, 
to 
to 
the 
to  reaffirm 
their  commitment 
the  promotion  of 
More  than  six  decades  ago,  the  United  Nations 

was  established,  among  other 
save 
succeeding  generations  from  the  scourge  of  war, 
promote social progress and better standards of life in 
greater  freedom,  and  employ  international  machinery 
for 
the  economic  and  social 
advancement of all peoples. 

Notwithstanding  instances  of  conflicts  that  have 
threatened to reverse the gains achieved since 1945, the 
United Nations, with the support of Member States, has 
achieved  some  success  in  maintaining  international 
peace  and  security.  An  important  ingredient  fuelling 
this  success  has  been  the  promotion  by  the  United 
Nations  of  the  principle  of  the  settlement  of  disputes 
through pacific or peaceful means. 

The  Government  of Trinidad  and Tobago  is  very 
supportive  of  the  President’s  choice  of  the  theme  for 
this debate, “The role of mediation in the settlement of 
disputes by peaceful means”. It  provides, in our view, 
an  opportunity  for  members  of 
international 
community 
this 
important principle, which is not only enshrined in the 
Charter of the United Nations but also widely accepted 
as forming part of customary international law.  

The  Charter  is  the  primary  legal  instrument 
governing the conduct of international relations among 
States.  Indeed,  Article  33  imposes  a  binding  legal 
obligation on parties to disputes to settle them first of 
all  through  peaceful  means.  Under  Chapter  VII,  the 
Security  Council  is  also  required,  as  a  first  resort,  to 
use  peaceful  means  to  resolve  disputes  that  constitute 
threats  to  peace,  breaches  of  the  peace,  and  acts  of 
aggression. 

We meet  at a time when  peoples  everywhere are 
seeking  more  direct  roles  in  the  governance  of  their 
societies;  when  they  are  not  prepared  to  be  silent 
spectators  to  their  plight;  when  ordinary,  law-abiding 
citizens  are  prepared  to  die  for  the  cause  of  freedom 
from tyranny and for democracy; when leadership that 
is anything less than democratic is unacceptable; when 
social media have united the peoples of the world into 
a global community with one aspiration — the dignity 
of the human person; and when the hunger of the souls 
of  peoples  of  many  nations  for  democracy  cannot  be 
appeased by  false promises of  a distant  utopia. Above 
all,  we  are  witnessing  levels  of  youth  alienation  and 
restlessness  that  challenge  leaders  to  bridge  the  gap 
between old cultures and traditions of governance with 
11-51398 

17 

Politically, 
the  age  of 
A/66/PV.27 

new  aspirations.  There  will  be  no  future  that  is 
peaceful unless the cynicism of the young is addressed. 

Developments  in  the  Middle  East  and  in  North 
Africa  reveal  a  global  growing  dissonance  among  the 
masses  with  regimes  that  trample  on  the  freedoms 
fundamental  to  democracy  and  do  not  allow  for 
participation in governance. In a world linked by social 
media,  the  risk  of  a  people’s  uprising  that  transcends 
continents  and  borders  is  real.  It  is  a  kind  of  social 
chaos that as leaders we must all prevent. If we do not, 
the  gains  we  have  made  will  be  lost  and  a  kind  of 
anarchy could be set in motion. 

What are the reasons for all of this? They have to 
do  with  the  perception  of  a  denial  that  people  feel 
exists today. That denial is political in nature in terms 
of shared governance; it is also material in nature, as it 
relates to the way people feel about how resources are 
allocated in their countries; it is also spiritual in nature, 
because of the general emptiness that people feel when 
it comes to realizing their human potential.  

totalitarianism  and 
anti-democratic  leadership  styles  is  over.  When  it 
comes to the use of their countries’ material resources, 
people  wish  to  see  more  equitable  distribution  and 
application  in  ways  that  improve  basic  standards  of 
living.  The  ability  to  eat  even  a  single  meal  or  to 
receive  basic  health  care,  education,  affordable  public 
transport and housing is today at the top of the list of 
people’s  priorities.  As  leaders  of  the  world,  we  must 
stop  and  we  must  answer.  Now  more  than  ever,  the 
world  must  allocate  its  resources  equitably,  ethically, 
sustainably and transparently. 

While  we  at  the  United  Nations  generally  talk 
about mediation as settling differences among nations, 
perhaps 
to  be  between 
generations.  Leaders  must  now  adopt  styles  of 
leadership that embrace active listening to the views of 
those governed. Leaders must develop approaches that 
build  consensus  and  promote  participation,  since 
people now demand a greater say in how their futures 
are  shaped.  They  want  to  author  that  future,  not  be 
dictated  to. They  want  to  arrive  at  a  destiny  that  they 
have shaped, not one that is shaped for them.  

The  defeat  of  economic  and  social  demons  will 
come  about  only  when  there  is  unity  of  purpose, 
nationally and globally — a reality that is possible only 
when  the  energies  of  all  stakeholders  are  harnessed 
around a common vision. A common vision cannot be 
the  real  mediation  has 
regional 
if 
and  global 
the  national, 
Trinidad  and  Tobago  relies  heavily  for 
fostered  when  conflicts,  internal  or  external,  are 
allowed to fester. This  results in the  further alienation 
of  people  who  often  resort  to  violence  and  socially 
disruptive behaviour to solve disputes. 

Trinidad  and  Tobago  has  always  advocated  the 
settlement of disputes by peaceful means. This is based 
on  our  support  for  an  international  order  founded  on 
respect  for  the  rule  of  law.  In  this  regard,  we  hold 
sacred  the  territorial  sovereignty  of  States  and  the 
inalienable human rights and fundamental freedoms of 
individuals.  We  also  view  the  promotion  of  justice  as 
indispensable to the maintenance of peace and security 
at 
levels. 
Nevertheless,  none  of  these  objectives  would  be 
attainable 
there  were  no  systems  encouraging 
Member  States  to  settle  disputes  peacefully.  That  is 
why we have always been vociferous in our support of 
the work of the International Criminal Court and other 
tribunals  established  to  promote  peace  by  dispensing 
justice. 
its 

economic  development  on 
the  exploration  and 
exploitation of the living and mineral resources of the 
maritime  zones  within  our  national  jurisdiction.  In 
doing  this,  we  have  had  to  delimit  our  maritime 
boundaries  with  neighbouring  coastal  States 
in 
accordance  with  the  relevant  provisions  of  the  1982 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea and 
other applicable rules of international law. I can assure 
the  Assembly  that  this  has  been  done  by  peaceful 
means,  either  through  diplomatic  negotiations  or  by 
arbitration  pursuant  to  the  provisions  of  annex  VII  of 
the Convention. 

Trinidad  and  Tobago  recognizes  the  importance 
of  the  need  to  settle  disputes  by  peaceful  means. 
Consequently,  we  have  become  parties  to  several 
conventions  for  settling  commercial  and  investment 
disputes. These have been given the force of law in our 
jurisdiction.  For  example,  our  1996  Foreign  Arbitral 
Awards  Act  gives  effect  to  Trinidad  and  Tobago’s 
obligations  under 
the 
Recognition  and  Enforcement  of  Foreign  Arbitral 
Awards.  Additionally,  as  a  State  party 
the 
Convention  on  the  Settlement  of  Investment  Disputes 
between States and Nationals of Other States, we also 
recognize that, like States, foreign nationals who invest 
in Trinidad  and Tobago  must  be  in  a  position  to  avail 
themselves  of  the  conciliation  and  arbitration  services 
provided by the International Centre for  Settlement of 
the  1958  Convention  on 
to 
18 

11-51398 
is 
an 


Investment  Disputes,  which 
impartial 
international  forum  for  resolving  potential  investment 
disputes.  Such  treaties  not  only  provide  the  requisite 
reassurance  for  investors,  who  know  that  any  dispute 
that  may  arise  will  be  settled  through  an  objective 
process;  they  also  serve  as  incentives  for  would-be 
investors to do business in Trinidad and Tobago. 

We  in  Trinidad  and  Tobago  support  the  position 
taken  by  the  International  Court  of  Justice  and  the 
International  Law  Commission  that  all  Member  States 
are  bound  to  refrain  in  their  international  relations 
from  the  threat  or  use  of  force  against  the  territorial 
integrity  or  political  independence  of  any  State,  or  in 
any other manner inconsistent with the purposes of the 
United  Nations.  It  is  for  these  reasons  that  we  have 
always upheld the position that  border disputes in our 
region  or  any  part  of  the  globe  should  he  settled 
peacefully. It will be recalled that as far back as 1970, 
Trinidad  and  Tobago,  through  the  good  offices  of  our 
former  Prime  Minister,  the  late  Mr.  Eric  Williams, 
facilitated  the  conclusion  of  the  Protocol  of  Port-of-
Spain,  whereby  Guyana  and  Venezuela  agreed  to  a 
12-year moratorium on their border dispute. 

Since  then,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  has  supported 
other initiatives mounted by the Caribbean Community 
(CARICOM), the Organization of American States and 
the  United  Nations  aimed  at  resolving  this  dispute  by 
peaceful  means.  Elsewhere  in  our  region,  we  have 
encouraged  the  use  of  good  offices  and  mediation  to 
resolve the border dispute between Belize and Guyana, 
as  well  as  internal  disputes  in  Haiti.  Our  support  for 
these  regional  initiatives  is  in  keeping  with  the 
provisions of Article 52 of the Charter, which envisions 
a  role  for  regional  organizations 
the  pacific 
settlement of disputes. 

Further afield, we have always advocated that the 
Middle  East  conflict  should  be  settled  peacefully. 
Trinidad and Tobago supports the quest of Palestinians 
for a State of their own with secure borders, alongside 
the State of Israel, whose borders must also be secure 
and  free  from  terrorist  attacks.  The  United  Nations 
must  continue  to  show  leadership  and  work  with  the 
Arab League and other entities to resolve the decades-
old  conflict  between  Israel  and  Palestine  so  that  there 
can be lasting peace in the region. For far too long, we, 
like 
the 
horrendous loss of life and destruction of infrastructure 
which  have  erased  the  hopes  and  prospects  of  many 
the  world,  have  witnessed 
the  rest  of 
in 
A/66/PV.27
to 
a 
of 
its 
adopt 
65/283, 
resolution 
young  people  for  a  bright  future  in  the  place  of  their 
birth. 

The  efforts  of  States  at  the  national  or  regional 
levels  for  the  settlement  of  disputes  emphasize  their 
primary  responsibility  under  the  Charter  to  settle 
disputes  peacefully.  These  are  supplementary  to  and 
reinforce  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  as  mandated 
under  the  Charter.  Trinidad  and  Tobago  therefore 
welcomes the renewed emphasis placed by the United 
Nations on mediation and other means for the peaceful 
settlement of disputes, as demonstrated in the report of 
the Secretary-General dated 8 April 2009 (S/2009/189), 
as well as the adoption on 22 June 2011 by the General 
Assembly 
entitled 
“Strengthening  the  role  of  mediation  in  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes,  conflict  prevention  and 
resolution”. 

During her contribution to the general debate last 
year (see A/65/PV.20), The Honourable Prime Minister 
of Trinidad and Tobago, Mrs. Kamla Persad-Bissessar, 
took  the  political  initiative  to  call  on  the  General 
Assembly 
resolution  on  women, 
disarmament, non-proliferation and arms control. That 
resolution,  which  was  eventually  adopted  by  the 
Assembly  as  resolution  65/69,  calls  on  States  to 
promote  the  equitable  representation  of  women  in  all 
decision-making  processes  with  regard  to  matters 
related  to  disarmament,  non-proliferation  and  arms 
control. 

One  year  later,  the  United  Nations  continues  to 
make strides in placing women at the centre of all of its 
activities. This  has  been  reflected,  for  example,  in  the 
establishment of the United Nations Entity for Gender 
Equality 
of  Women 
(UN-Women). Consistent with this action, Trinidad and 
Tobago applauds the decision taken by Member States 
in resolution 65/283, which recognizes the importance 
of  the  full  and  effective  participation  of  women  at  all 
levels,  at  all  stages  and  in  all  aspects  of  the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes,  conflict  prevention  and 
resolution,  as  well  as  the  need  to  address  the  lack  of 
women as chief or lead peace mediators. 

Women  are  among  the  most  vulnerable  during 
conflicts,  internal  or  otherwise,  and  hence  must  be 
involved  in  all  vehicles  relating  to  the  settlement  of 
disputes  and  conflict  prevention.  The  absence  of 
women in the process could result in the development 
of  peace  agreements  which  are  not  comprehensive  in 
the  Empowerment 
and 
11-51398 

19 
The 
in 
colloquium 
on  women’s 
inclusion  of  women 
A/66/PV.27 

scope  and  which  may  not  address  those  issues  that 
affect  women  during  periods  of  conflict  and  which 
continue thereafter. 

the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes and conflict prevention is related 
to their involvement in the political process. Women, in 
whatever part of the world, must not be left out of the 
political  decision-making  process.  The  Honourable 
Prime  Minister  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago  continues  to 
demonstrate  her  commitment  to  the  participation  of 
women  in  Government  in  meaningful  ways,  both 
nationally  and  internationally.  Her  advocacy  with 
respect to this issue resulted in the hosting in Trinidad 
and  Tobago  in  2011  of  regional  seminars  to  promote 
this democratic and just cause.  

Bearing  in  mind  the  significance  of  this  subject, 
Prime  Minister  Kamla  Persad-Bissessar,  together  with 
other  States, 
the  United  Nations  Development 
Programme  and  UN-Women,  successfully  co-hosted  a 
high-level 
political 
participation last Monday in the margins of the General 
Assembly. It was gratifying and fulfilling to see a room 
overflowing  with  women  from  all  over  the  world 
championing  the  common  cause  of  gender  equality. 
The event clearly demonstrated that the small size of a 
country  is  not  a  deterrent  to  the  realization  of  big 
dreams  and  the  fulfilment  of  wholesome  ideals  in  the 
pursuit of human development.  

As part of the colloquium, the Prime Minister of 
Trinidad  and  Tobago  was  among  those  leaders  who 
signed  a  declaration  on  advancing  women’s  political 
participation. It is the hope of Trinidad and Tobago that 
the  outcome  of  this  event  will  promote  greater  global 
consciousness  and  discussions  on  the  participation  of 
women 
the  advancement  of 
democracy  globally.  In  keeping  with  the  objective  of 
this  meeting,  Trinidad  and  Tobago  calls  on  Member 
States to implement the provisions of resolution 65/283 
on the inclusion of women as mediators in the peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  and  conflict  prevention.  At  the 
same  time,  we  would  also  welcome  greater  efforts  to 
recruit  lead  mediators  from  developing  countries  and 
from 
island 
the  Caribbean, 
developing  States, 
consistent  with  the  principle  of  equitable  geographic 
distribution  in  the  recruitment  of  United  Nations 
personnel. 
small  countries,  particularly 
in  Government  and 
small 
including 
in 

to 
in  hostilities.  In  addition 
Like  women,  our  young  people  are  also  very 

susceptible 
the  negative  effects  of  strife  and 
therefore  they,  too,  must  be  protected.  A  number  of 
cases  before  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC) 
show  that  the  perpetrators  are  on  trial  or  under 
investigation  for  committing  war  crimes  because  they 
conscripted  or  enlisted  children  under  the  age  of  15 
into  their  national  armed  forces  or  used  them  to 
participate  actively 
to 
mechanisms  aimed  at  bringing  the  accused  to  justice, 
we  support  all  those  aimed  at  rehabilitating  young 
people  who  have  survived  conflict  so  that  they  can 
advance, reach their fullest potential and contribute to 
the  development  of 
their  societies.  This  can  be 
achieved  if  they  are  able  to  enjoy  their  basic  human 
rights. Thus we call on States that are in a position to 
do  so  to  contribute  to  UNICEF,  the  International 
Committee  of  the  Red  Cross  and  the  ICC  Trust  Fund 
for  Victims,  which  assist  in  the  rehabilitation  of 
children and other victims of armed conflict. 

Trinidad and Tobago endorses a number of other 
elements contained in resolution 65/283 relating to the 
strengthening  of  the  position  of  the  United  Nations  in 
assisting  States  to  develop  their  capacity  to  employ 
mediation  and  other  peaceful  means 
to  resolve 
disputes.  While  the  adoption  of  the  resolution  is 
laudable, it is only a means to an end. Member States 
must  ensure  that  all  aspects  of  the  resolution  are 
implemented fully. In this regard, Trinidad and Tobago 
wishes  to  underscore  the  importance  of  the  provision 
of  adequate  resources  to  the  Department  of  Political 
Affairs  and  its  Mediation  Support  Unit.  Without  the 
required  resources,  the  Secretary-General  will  not  be 
able  to  effectively  use  his  good  offices  and  other 
mediation capacities to help resolve existing and future 
disputes. 

The  escalation  of  armed  conflict  and  armed 
violence  is  fuelled  by  several  factors.  One  component 
is 
illegal  proliferation  of  conventional  arms, 
including  small  arms  and  light  weapons  which  have 
been diverted from the legal market to the illicit trade. 
The  United  Nations,  in  keeping  with  its  obligations 
under 
and  maintain 
international  peace  and  security,  has  recognized  the 
impact of the illegal trade in conventional arms on the 
peace  and  security  of  countries  and  regions  and  has 
adopted  several  resolutions  and  implemented  different 
programmes to address this matter. 
the  Charter 
to  promote 
the 
20 

11-51398 
region, 
In  many  cases, 
The  absence  of  peaceful  means 


But  for  us  in  Trinidad  and  Tobago  and  the 

CARICOM 
the  most  ambitious  measure 
undertaken  so  far  is  the  decision  to  convene  a 
conference in July 2012 to negotiate the text of an arms 
trade  treaty.  Trinidad  and  Tobago  and  its  CARICOM 
partners  have  been  very  active  in  the  deliberations  of 
meetings  of  the  Preparatory  Committee  examining 
possible  elements  for  inclusion  in  the  treaty.  As  we 
approach  the  2012  conference  and  begin  to  reflect  on 
items  to  be  included  in  the  agreement,  considerable 
care  must  also  be  taken  to  ensure  that  there  are 
adequate  provisions  for  the  settlement  of  disputes 
which  may  arise  among  future  States  parties  on  the 
interpretation  and  application  of  the  provisions  of  the 
arms trade treaty. 
to  resolve 

conflicts  has  led  to  genocide,  war  crimes  and  other 
pernicious  misdeeds  of  concern  to  the  international 
community. 
they  have  stymied 
economic  growth  and  social  progress  and  have 
destroyed human lives. They have limited the capacity 
of  many  States  in  conflict,  especially  those  in  the 
developing  world, 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  We  must  save  current  and  future 
generations  from  the  plague  of  war  brought  about  by 
intolerance, 
and 
disagreements  over  the  allocation  of  resources.  We  in 
Trinidad and Tobago feel that a concrete way of doing 
this  —  an  intervention  strategy  —  is  to  focus,  as  my 
country  is  focusing,  on  universal  preschool  education, 
because  we  believe  that  the  human  values  that  are 
inculcated in children from birth until ages 5 or 6 help 
them to appreciate the value of peace and the value of 
interpersonal peace. 
the  United  Nations  and  other 

Additionally, 
the 
intergovernmental  organizations  must  address 
impatience  and  restlessness  of  today’s  young  people, 
who are fed up with the misallocation of resources and 
the lack of both transparency and peoples’ involvement 
in  the  processes  of  governance.  Their  desires  to 
reshape  the  world  to  reflect  greater  participation, 
empathy  and  democratic  principles  ought  not  be 
ignored  by  leaders.  We  are  convinced  that  those 
aspirations  will  be  achieved  if  mediation  and  other 
peaceful  means  of  solving  disputes,  among  other 
strategies,  are  adopted  —  and  not  just  among  nations, 
but among individuals and internally within countries.  

to 
working with regional partners, the United Nations and 
Trinidad  and  Tobago  remains  committed 
xenophobia, 
disputes 
to 
achieve 
border 
A/66/PV.27
to 
Let  us 
capacity 
therefore  endeavour 
to  promote  global  peace.  We  must 
other  actors 
strengthen 
our 
use  mediation, 
complemented  by  the  introduction  of  new  approaches 
to  Government  and  governance,  such  as  the  greater 
participation of women and a desire to build consensus. 

We believe that unless leaders listen more, unless 
we  employ  mediation  to  resolve  disputes,  unless  we 
incorporate our disenfranchised women in governance, 
unless  we  listen  to  the  real  message  of  today  about 
greater  participation  in  governance,  and  unless  we 
realize  that  humankind  has  common  challenges  as  it 
addresses  issues  like  climate  change,  then  the  world 
will  have  missed  a  golden  opportunity  to  advance  the 
cause of humankind and promote global peace. 

to  resolve  our 
common  global  challenges,  for  to  do  otherwise  would 
be  to  fail  succeeding  generations  of  humankind,  for 
which we who meet here today will never be forgiven 
nor forgotten. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Gilbert  Saboya  Sunyé,  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  and  Institutional  Relations  of  the 
Principality of Andorra.  
Mr. Saboya Sunyé (Andorra) (spoke in Catalán; 

English text provided by the delegation): First of all, I 
would  like  to  avail  myself  of  this  opportunity  to 
congratulate  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  on  his 
well-deserved 
and  Mr.  Nassir 
Abdulaziz Al-Nasser on his election as President of the 
General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session. 

It  is  with  pride,  a  sense  of  responsibility  and  a 
will for cooperation and proactivity that I address this 
Hall in the name of the Principality of Andorra and the 
Government  that  I  have  the  honour  to  represent.  The 
United Nations and the system of international law that 
emanates  from  it  place  all  States  on  an  equal  footing. 
That  is  especially  important  for  States  like  Andorra, 
small  in  terms  of  territorial  dimension  but  large  in 
values and in history. 

Recent  years  have  been  marked  by  a  profound 
crisis  of  multiple  aspects  —  economic,  social, 
environmental  and  political  —  but  most  especially  a 
crisis  of  values.  Now  that  we  must  all  lay  the 
foundation  for  recovery,  we  need  to  be  quite  clear 
about  the  values  and  principles  on  which  we  wish  to 
continue constructing the world. We do not need to go 
much  further  than  the  founding  spirit  of  the  General 
reappointment, 
11-51398 

21 

A/66/PV.27 

Assembly,  an  institution  in  which  all  —  large  and 
small,  the  wealthier  and  the  less  endowed  —  address 
one  another  on  equal  terms  to  promote  peace,  liberty 
and justice.  

Just as the United Nations arose after a world war 
that turned the world as it had existed until then upside 
down,  now  again  we  have  to  be  able  to  define  the 
moral and political bases of a new order. One priority 
set  by  the  United  Nations  is  inclusive  and  sustainable 
development.  There  can  be  no  sustainability  without 
inclusion. And  if  the Assembly,  which  arose  from  the 
debris of a devastating war, is to give a voice to all the 
peoples  of  the  planet,  we  have  to  be  capable  now  of 
ensuring  that  no  one  is  excluded  from  the  future  that 
we forge together. 

We  must  take  care  that  the  economic  recovery 
from  the  recession  does  not  further  accentuate  the 
inequalities  —  understood  as  a  lack  of  equity  —  that 
already  exist.  Thus,  just  as  international  law  protects 
nations like ours that have no military potential, so too 
economic  growth  must  be  especially  attentive  to  the 
more  vulnerable  in  order  to  prevent  the  consequences 
of the recession from falling systematically on them. 

Thirty  years  ago,  in  1981,  the  United  Nations 
held  its  first  Conference  on  the  Least  Developed 
Countries. The fourth Conference was held last spring, 
attesting  to  the  difficulty  of  achieving  significant 
changes  to  improve  the  weakness  and  vulnerability  of 
those  States.  Further,  we  observe  with  concern  how, 
against the background of the global recession, some of 
the more developed countries often adopt protectionist 
attitudes. On the conviction that a freer world is a more 
just world, we also have to state that a more open and 
less  protectionist  world  leads  to  a  more  equitable 
balance and improvements for the disadvantaged. 

Andorra, with its small scale, secular stability and 
seclusion  among  mountains,  is  dealing  with  the  far-
reaching process of opening its economy. We also have 
planned  the  construction  of  a  model  of  inclusive 
growth  that  leaves  no  one  out  —  a  model  that  cannot 
be  constructed  by 
the 
international community or by being isolated from the 
world. 

I have been talking about economic opening, but 
the  opening  to  the  world  cannot  be  strictly  economic, 
and it is crystal clear that recovery from the crisis and a 
new  phase  of  growth  will  not  come  about  solely  as  a 
result  of  economic  measures.  The  search  for  an 
turning  one’s  back  on 
factors 
in 
treated, 
in 
(resolution  65/277)  adopted  by 
inclusive  and  sustainable  balance  must  necessarily 
involve  addressing 
that  are  not  strictly 
economic  but  that  do  accentuate  inequalities  between 
countries. 

In that connection, we note the work done at the 
2011  High-level  Meeting  of  the  General Assembly  on 
AIDS  held  in  June  and  the  Political  Declaration  on 
HIV/AIDS 
the 
participating States, stating their intension to intensify 
their efforts in the fight against this pandemic. In spite 
of  the  advances  achieved  in  recent  years,  HIV  is  a 
symbol  of  how  necessary  it  is  for  progress  to  reach 
the  more  developed 
everyone  equally.  While 
countries  AIDS  has  become  a  chronic 
illness 
appropriately 
the  more  disadvantaged 
areas —  especially  in  sub-Saharan  Africa  —  the 
disease  is  still  lethal,  especially  in  the  communities 
with the fewest resources.  

Above  and  beyond  the  increase  of  resources  for 
research  and 
treatment  and  greater  North-South 
cooperation,  I  am  convinced  that  the  extension  of 
democracy and human rights is also a key factor in the 
fight against a pandemic that overwhelms the poorest, 
but  that  also  hits  peoples  submerged  in  ignorance  and 
oppression. 

With  all  of  that,  the  extent  of  the  commitments 
made  and  the  progress  achieved  by  various  States  in 
the 
fight  against  HIV  should  be  a  source  of 
satisfaction, 
international 
community  been  capable  of  articulating  a  response  so 
rapid and unanimous when faced with a threat on this 
scale.  It  would  be  wonderful  if  the  same  level  of 
awareness  and  commitment  could  be  achieved  in  the 
fight  against  non-communicable  diseases,  such  as 
cardiovascular  disease,  cancer  and  diabetes.  Those 
also — although perhaps not so clearly as in the case of 
AIDS  —  are  diseases  that  accentuate  the  inequalities 
among countries. That principle was recognized in the 
Political  Declaration  (resolution  66/2)  of  the  High-
level  Meeting  of 
the 
prevention  and  control  of  non-communicable  diseases 
held recently. 

Such successes cannot allow us to forget that one 
of the most serious challenges facing the international 
community  and  this  Assembly,  which  is  its  highest 
representation,  is  the  fight  against  climate  change.  To 
date,  humankind  was  used  to  overcoming  recessions 
and  times  of  crisis,  entering  a  new  phase  of  growth, 
the  General  Assembly  on 
seldom  has 
since 
the 
22 

11-51398 


without thinking of the negative external effects of that 
growth.  We  now  know  that  growth  cannot  be  at  any 
price  and  that  development  must  be  sustainable  in 
economic  terms,  but  also,  and  more  particularly,  in 
environmental terms.  

That  is  why  the  threat  of  climate  change  is  as 
great  as  or  stronger  than  that  of  the  global  recession. 
Some  developed  countries,  in  particular  those  that 
survive  on  their  own  natural  resources,  are  seriously 
threatened  by  climate  change.  That  may  also  be  the 
case  for  Andorra,  which  bases  a  good  part  of  its 
economic welfare on snow and mountain tourism. That 
is why we will always support any initiative aiming at 
greater  awareness  of  the  need  to  combat  climate 
change,  and  take  steps  to  adapt  to  what  is  probably 
already a reality. In that context, we should underscore 
the  entry  into  force  in Andorra  of  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change on 31 May. 

We  should  never  lose  sight  of  the  fact  that  the 
main goal of the United Nations is to guarantee peace 
and  security  in  a  context  of  freedom  and  respect  for 
human  rights.  Just  as  in  the  past,  States  emerged  to 
ensure the social peace and individual freedom of their 
citizens,  the  United  Nations  also  have  their  raison 
d’être in the maintenance of peace and security and the 
rule of international law. 

Today,  we  speak  of  inclusive  and  sustainable 
economic growth and of a new and profound awareness 
of  the  threat  of  climate  change. We  cannot  forget  that 
such  issues  are  closely  linked  to  the  promotion  of  a 
safer  world.  Growth  that  leaves  more  vulnerable 
groups  behind  and  that  excludes  the  least  developed 
countries, added to the effects of climate change, leads 
to a less safe and less stable world. 
This  year  marks  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the 

tragic  attacks  of  11  September  here  in  New York,  the 
seat  of  United  Nations  Headquarters.  As  President 
Obama  recalled  last  Wednesday  (see A/66/PV.11),  we 
are  today  seeing  the  symbol  of  New  York’s  renewal 
rise  at  ground  zero,  where  10  years  ago  there  was  an 
open wound and twisted steel, a shattered heart in the 
centre of the city. 
This  year,  we  close  the  first  decade  of  the 

millennium  without  having  resolved  the  threat  to  the 
security  of  our  world,  that  is,  international  terrorism. 
Despite  progress  on  that  front,  the  threat  continues. 
Terrorism  arises 
from  hatred  and  wickedness. 
in 
However,  we  must  be  aware 
it  dwells, 
that 
A/66/PV.27
racism, 
particular, where there is a lack of economic prospects, 
illiteracy,  lack  of  culture,  poverty,  marginality  — 
where, in short, there is a lack of democracy. 

That  is  why,  in  the  promotion  of  a  safer  world, 
our  efforts  will  always  be  needed  to  combat  all  kinds 
of  discrimination.  In  that  regard,  I  wish  to  underscore 
the  political  declaration  against 
racial 
discrimination  and  xenophobia  and  related  intolerance 
that  was  adopted  at  that  time  during  the  General 
Assembly.  It  is  also  10  years  since  the  Durban 
Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action.  Today,  as  the 
States represented here, we say that we cannot afford to 
lower  our  guard  since,  in  an  increasingly  globalized 
and  complex  world,  the  threat  of  discrimination  is 
growing. 

At the beginning of my statement, I spoke of the 
need  to  continue  building  the  world  on  the  principles 
and values that inspire this Assembly. Allow me now to 
recall the spirit and the philosophy of the twenty-eighth 
President of the United States, President Wilson, father 
of  the  League  of  Nations,  the  precursor  of  today’s 
United  Nations.  Wilson  taught  us  that  it  was  of  little 
use to be democrats at home if we were not capable of 
exporting  democracy  beyond  our  borders,  and  that  a 
State that turned its back on countries still living under 
oppression  and  in  which  the  most  fundamental  rights 
and freedoms were not respected could not presume to 
be democratic. 

That is why we must welcome with an especially 
positive attitude what we have called the Arab Spring. 
We 
for 
democracy strengthen in the future. In that context, in 
July,  we  supported  South  Sudan  becoming 
the 
193rd member  of  the  United  Nations.  Today,  we  are 
pleased at that reality and we most warmly welcome it. 
A more democratic world is a more dynamic world, but 
also safer because it is fairer. Most failures of security 
in  our  world,  as  I  said  a  moment  ago,  are  fuelled  by 
injustice. 

Likewise,  with  regard  to  the  Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict,  we  must  keep  encouraging  dialogue  and 
mediation. The  Palestinian  people’s  aspiration  to  have 
a democratic and peaceful State is as legitimate as the 
Israeli desire to obtain guarantees for its existence and 
security. The final aim of a mutual recognition of two 
States  by  two  peoples,  on  the  basis  of  the  1967  lines 
with  the  agreed  and  equivalent  exchanges,  is  now 
under discussion.  
those  movements 
sincerely  hope 
that 
11-51398 

23 
democracy 
the  deterrence  of 
A/66/PV.27 


A possible intermediate step, in a shorter term, by 
becoming an observer State could represent an element 
of  hope  for  the  Palestinian  people,  provided  that  it  is 
not  used  for  purposes  that  are  incompatible  with 
continuing  negotiations,  but  for  the  aforementioned 
goal. Israel also must contribute to that spirit, avoiding 
attitudes that could affect the final status. 

Andorra is a country that has lived for more than 
700 years without an army, without taking part in any 
war and without internal conflicts. The perpetual peace 
and  permanent  stability,  of  which  we  Andorrans  are 
proud,  is  not  founded  on  an  autocratic  regime  that 
controls  its  people  with  an  iron  fist  or  on  a  whim 
resulting  from 
larger  or  more 
powerful  neighbours.  No,  the  ultimate  reason  for  a 
peace  and  security  maintained  for  more  than  seven 
centuries  has  been  the  ongoing  effort  to  respect 
individual  rights  and  freedoms  and  the  rule  of  justice 
and  of  fairness,  and  the  existence  of  mechanisms  of 
solidarity,  as  was  well  demonstrated  in  the  recent 
universal periodic review. 

centuries-old 
parliamentary  system  are  not  the  fruit  of  peace  and 
stability,  but  the  reverse.  Peace,  security  and  stability 
are 
fruits  of  democracy  because,  without 
democracy,  there  is  no  possibility  of  peace  or  lasting 
security either in Andorra or anywhere in the world. 

From  the  position  of  humility  that  governs  our 
support  for  the  United  Nations,  we  wish  to  reaffirm 
here  the  idea  of  commitment  as  a  fundamental  value 
and 
linchpin  of  our  political  action.  That 
commitment is understood as a deep belief not only in 
peace  and  equal  opportunities,  but  also  as  an 
involvement 
individual 
responsibilities  regarding  a  common  project  and,  last 
but not least, as a wish for dialogue and understanding. 
On  Wednesday,  President  Sarkozy  stated 
this 
Assembly:  “Let  us  choose  the  path  of  compromise, 
which  is  neither  renunciation  nor  repudiation,  but 
which  allows  us  to  move  forward,  step  by  step” 
(A/66/PV.11).  Andorra  will  continue  to  work  towards 
such a commitment within the Organization. 

speaker in the general debate for this meeting.  

Several representatives have requested to exercise 
their  right  of  reply.  I  wish  to  remind  members  that 
statements in exercise of the right of reply are limited 
to  10  minutes  for  the  first  intervention  and  to  five 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
shouldering  of 
in 
and 
and 
our 
in 
Our 
the 
the 

a 
view 
removing 
minutes  for  second  interventions,  and  should  be  made 
by delegations from their seats. 
Mr.  Mostahkam  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran): 

Today,  the  representative  of  the  United Arab  Emirates 
referred in his remarks to three Iranian Islands located 
in the Persian Gulf. My delegation would like to make 
it clear that those islands are an eternal part of Iranian 
territory  and  are  under  the  sovereignty  of  the  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran.  As  such,  we  regret  the  use  of 
inappropriate qualifications for these Iranian islands in 
the Persian Gulf. 

The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  while  stressing  its 
determination to continue its friendly relations with the 
neighbouring  United Arab  Emirates,  reiterates  that  all 
actions  and  measures  taken  on  the  Iranian  island  of 
Abu Musa have been in exercise of its sovereign rights 
and  in  accordance  with  the  arrangements  emanating 
from  the  documents  exchanged  in  1971.  The  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  stands  ready  to  continue  its  bilateral 
talks  with  relevant  officials  of 
the  United  Arab 
Emirates  with 
any 
to 
misunderstanding that may exist in this regard. 
Moreover, the Islamic Republic of Iran wishes to 

stress  that  the  only  correct  and  historically  and 
universally  recognized  name  for  the  sea  between  Iran 
and the Arabian peninsula is, as the United Nations has 
itself also emphasized, the Persian Gulf. Therefore, any 
use of fabricated names for that body of water is totally 
groundless,  absolutely  unacceptable  and  of  no  legal, 
geographical or political value. 
Mr. Salem (Egypt): My delegation has requested 

to speak in exercise of the right of reply to the utterly 
false  allegations  made  by  the  Foreign  Minister  of 
Canada  against  Egypt.  We  would  advise  the  Foreign 
Minister  to  follow  closely  the  events  that  took  place 
during  the  25  January  revolution  in  Egypt  and  the 
social  solidarity  it  set  as  an  example  to  the  entire 
world.  
He  should  note  that  Muslims  and  Copts  stood 

together,  side  by  side,  during  that  revolution  and 
remained  so  thereafter.  Since  25  January,  no  Copt  has 
been  harassed  and  no  church  been  trespassed.  We  are 
not  surprised  that  those  false  allegations  come  from 
Canada  which,  among  other 
things,  baselessly 
considers  itself  a  custodian  of  human  rights  in  the 
world,  making  false  accusations  against  sovereign 
countries  without  carefully  studying  the  true  facts  or 
the conditions and circumstances surrounding them. 
24 

11-51398 
three 


Mr.  Al-Yafei  (United  Arab  Emirates)  (spoke  in 

Arabic):  I  find  myself  compelled  to  exercise  my  right 
of reply in response to the representative of Iran, who 
spoke  a  few  minutes  ago,  misleading  the  Assembly 
about  his  country’s  occupation  of 
islands 
belonging  to  the  Emirates:  the  Greater  and  Lesser 
Tunbs and Abu Musa. I will also address the false, void 
and illegal allegations made about those islands.  

My  Government  has  repeatedly  made  known  its 
established,  principled  position  vis-à-vis  its  national 
cause  and  reiterates  its  severe  disappointment  at  the 
repeated  allegations  made  by  the  representatives  of 
Iran  annually  in  this  Hall  to  the  effect  that  their 
country’s occupation of the three islands that belong to 
my country is a misunderstanding. 

all 
documentation and all historic, demographic and legal 
facts  and  realities  that  prove  that  the  three  islands  are 
an  integral  part  of  the  territory  of  the  United  Arab 
Emirates and its national sovereignty, and that they are 
also  part  of  the  continental  shelf,  air  space  and 
exclusive  economic  zone  of  the  Emirates.  These  facts 
are indivisible and cannot be diminished.  
That  position 
face  of 
flies 
in 
the 
A/66/PV.27
islands,  without  addressing 

Therefore,  based  on  the  purposes  and  principles 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  rules  of 
international  law,  my  country  reiterates  its  categorical 
rejection of the Iranian occupation and all military and 
civilian  measures  that  Iran  continues  to  adopt  with  a 
view  to  changing  the  demographic  and  historic  nature 
of  the  islands,  consolidating  their  occupation  and 
circumventing  the  question  of  occupation  by  invoking 
marginal issues that are the result of its occupation of 
the 
the 
occupation itself. 

We hope that the international community will act 
to urge the Muslim Iranian Government to translate its 
good  and  peaceful  intentions  into  deeds,  whether 
through  unconditional  bilateral  negotiations  between 
the  two  countries  or  by  petitioning  the  International 
Court of Justice for a legal opinion on this matter. That 
would put an end to the occupation of the three islands 
and return them to the sovereignty of the United Arab 
Emirates. 

  The meeting rose at 9.20 p.m. 
issue  of 
the 
11-51398 

25 
