
A/66/PV.42
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

42nd plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 25 October 2011, 3.15 p.m. 
New York 





President:  Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 







In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Cazeau 
(Haiti), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m. 



Agenda item 41 (continued)
Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/66/114) 


Mr.  Jahangiri  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  The 
Islamic Republic of  Iran voted in favour of resolution 
66/6,  and  would  like  to  put  on  record  the  following 
explanation of vote following the resolution’s adoption. 

The  overwhelming  support  for  the  resolution 
reflects  yet  again  the  common  understanding  and  will 
of 
the 
inhuman  and  illegitimate  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United  States  on  the  Cuban  Government  and  people. 
Depriving  civilian  populations  of  their  economic  and 
social  rights  infringes  upon  their  basic  human  rights 
and is therefore illegal. Indeed, this is the main feature 
of  sanctions  as  we  know  them  today.  Economic 
blockades and sanctions are completely illegitimate for 
the following reasons. 

There  is  no  case  of  economic  sanctions  against 
developing  countries  or  territories  where  arrogant 
Powers are not behind those sanctions. Such sanctions 
have  become  a  tool  not  for  encouraging  international 
peace  and  security  but  for  imposing  the  hegemonic 
international  community  concerning 
the 
is  also 
intentions of big Powers on other nations. Worst of all, 
sanctions,  including  ostensibly  legitimate  examples, 
always  end  by  targeting  the  daily  lives  of  civilians, 
with a dramatic impact on people’s basic human rights. 
The victimization of ordinary, innocent people is a sine 
qua  non  of  sanctions.  There  is  ample  evidence  that 
sanctions  above  all  imperil  the  economic  growth  and 
prosperity of civilians. 

Despite  all  the  damage  that  sanctions  do,  they 
have been proven to be futile. There is no strong proof 
that independent nations will compromise their valued 
national  interests  because  of  sanctions  that  reflect  the 
antagonistic will of a hegemonic Power. The argument 
that  sanctions  are  a  better  option  than  more  peaceful 
measures 
irrelevant.  Warmongers  are  not 
concerned  about  the  sequence  of  punitive  measures. 
They  will  undoubtedly  resort  to  force  whenever  they 
deem  necessary,  with  or  without  first  using  other 
means  and  with  or  without  United  Nations  approval. 
Sanctions  will  not  stop  them  from  exercising  force 
should they themselves find that desirable. 

However,  the  most  unjustifiable  and  deplorable 
form  of  sanctions  is  the  imposition  of  unilateral 
blockades  and 
the  extraterritorial  application  of 
domestic  laws  on  the  part  of  one  State,  which, 
unsurprisingly,  happens  to  be  the  United  States  of 
America.  These  affect  not  only  the  population  on 
whom  sanctions  are  imposed  but  also  the  interests  of 
third  parties,  which  are  disproportionately  and 
unreasonably 
international 
documents  have  called  for  the  immediate  nullification 
of  all  such  measures;  indeed,  one  may  wonder  what 
punished.  Numerous 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-56354 (E) 
*1156354* 


economic, 
commercial 
in  so  many 
The  unilateral 
A/66/PV.42 

more  can  be  done  to  convince  the  Government  of  the 
United  States  to  lift  the  inhuman  and  futile  economic 
blockade against the Government and people of Cuba; 
what  more  should  be  said  in  arguing  that  such  illegal 
measures flagrantly violate the United Nations Charter, 
the  rule  of  international  law,  the  multilateral  trading 
system, 
the  standards  and  principles  governing 
relations among States, as well as the clear will of the 
international  community  —  the  will  that  has  been 
unequivocally  expressed 
resolutions 
adopted by the Assembly. 

and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States serves 
no  purpose  other  than  inflicting  tremendous  hardship 
and  suffering  on  ordinary  civilians,  especially  women 
and  children.  The  embargo  has  seriously  jeopardized 
the  legitimate  rights  and  interests  of  Cuba  and  other 
States. It runs counter to the principles of international 
law and contradicts the letter and spirit of the Charter 
of the United Nations. 

The Islamic Republic of Iran strongly rejects, and 
remains  opposed  to,  the  application  of  unilateral 
economic  and  trade  measures  by  one  State  against 
another,  as  well  as  to  the  extraterritorial  application 
and effects of national legislation on the sovereignty of 
other  States.  We  oppose  and  condemn  these  measures 
or  laws  and  their  continued  application  and  will  do 
everything  to  effectively  thwart  them.  We  urge  other 
States  to  do  likewise  and  to  refrain  from  recognizing, 
adopting  or  implementing  extraterritorial  or  unilateral 
coercive  measures  or 
including  unilateral 
economic  sanctions,  other  intimidating  measures  and 
arbitrary  travel  restrictions  that  are  designed  to  exert 
pressure on other countries, threaten their sovereignty, 
independence  and  freedom  of  trade  and  investment, 
and  prevent  them  from  exercising  their  right  to  make 
decisions through their own free will.  

The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  shares  the  concern 
of  the  Cuban  people  and  Government,  and  therefore 
emphasizes  the  urgent  need  to  put  an  end  to  such 
inhuman  measures  against  Cuba  and  other  developing 
countries  and  to  fully  implement  the  resolution  just 
adopted. 

imposes 
them  and  under  whatsoever  pretext  or  guise,  remain 
illegitimate, futile and misguidedly punitive.  
Mrs.  Chikava  (Zimbabwe):  I  too  would  like  to 

commence  with  an  expression  of  condolences  to  the 
In  conclusion,  sanctions,  whosoever 
laws, 
For 
from 
the  past  20 
consecutive  years, 
Government  and  people  of  Turkey,  who  have  been  so 
tragically  affected  by  the  recent  earthquake.  We  also 
acknowledge  the  presence  here  today  of  the  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Cuba. He is most 
welcome to witness our deliberations. 

I  wish  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his 
comprehensive  report  on  the  necessity  of  ending  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by 
the  United  States  of  America  against  Cuba 
(A/66/114).  I  also  associate  myself  with  the  statement 
made by the representative of Argentina, who spoke on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China.  

an 
overwhelming  number  of  the  States  Members  of  the 
United  Nations  have  voted  in  favour  of  the  resolution 
calling  for  the  lifting  of  the  United  States  embargo 
against Cuba. Each year we have made it clear that the 
blockade  is  not  only  in  violation  of  international  law 
but it is also counter to the purposes and principles of 
the United Nations set forth in its Charter, of which the 
United States of America is itself a founding signatory. 
The embargo violates Cuba’s right to do business with 
the  rest  of  the  international  community  and,  in  the 
process,  frustrates  the  country’s  efforts  to  achieve  the 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the Millennium Development Goals. It is clear that the 
embargo  denies  Cuba  access  to  markets,  development 
aid 
institutions  and 
technology  transfers,  which  are  all  important  for  the 
development  of  the  Cuban  economy  and  for  the  well-
being and advancement of its people. 
My  country,  Zimbabwe,  fully  understands  the 

difficulties  associated  with 
ill-
conceived measures, as we are also a victim of similar 
unilateral measures. We reject the passing of laws and 
regulations  on  weaker  and  small  nations  by  the  more 
powerful with the goal of destabilizing them for regime 
change  purposes.  The  people  of  Cuba  must  be  left  to 
themselves  to  pursue  their  own  economic  and  social 
development agenda.  

One of the ironies resulting from such pernicious 
measures  is  the  bringing  together  of  the  Government 
and people of the country  under punishment. National 
pride  takes  root  to  defeat  this  foreign  interference. As 
we  have  done  in  the  past,  my  delegation  expresses  its 
solidarity  with  the  Government  and  the  people  of 
Cuba.  Accordingly,  we  voted  in  favour  of  resolution 
66/6.  
international 
illegal  and 
financial 
these 
2 

11-56354 
country 
of  Cuba 
our  most 
imposed  against 


Mr.  Morejón  (Ecuador)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

welcome  the  presence  in  the  Hall  of  Mr.  Bruno 
Rodríguez  Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
Cuba.  Through  him,  we  once  again  express  to  our 
brother 
sincere 
congratulations on this new triumph of the truth. 

The great support that resolution 66/6 received in 
the  voting  is  practically  tantamount  to  a  unanimous 
adoption,  which  makes  this  vote  a  historic  one. 
Following  the  logic  of  common  sense,  this  repeated 
appeal by the General Assembly should be sufficient to 
put  an  end  to  the  cruel  blockade  against  Cuba.  The 
delegation  of  Ecuador  voted  in  favour  of  resolution 
66/6,  as  we  believe  that  it  is  totally  unacceptable  to 
extend unilateral the extraterritorial measures against a 
third  country,  such  as  those  contained  in  the  United 
States  Cuban  Democracy Act  of  1992  and  the  Helms-
Burton Act of 1996.  

the  brother 
The  blockade 
Republic  of  Cuba  is  in  violation  of  the  fundamental 
tenets  of  international  law,  international  humanitarian 
law,  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the 
principles  governing  peaceful  relations  among  States. 
The  blockade  causes  serious  economic  and  social 
damage  to  the  Caribbean  region  and  indeed  has 
brought a humanitarian crisis of great magnitude to the 
brotherly  Cuban  people,  as  Mr.  Rodríguez  Parrilla 
explained to us in detail this morning.  

In  supporting  resolution  66/6,  Ecuador  joins  the 
majority of voices issuing from the States Members of 
the  United  Nations  that  demand  without  delay  the 
immediate  and  unconditional  end  to  all  the  unilateral 
measures imposed against our dear brother Republic of 
Cuba. 
I  repeat  that  Ecuador  trusts  that  the  logic  of 

common  sense  and  justice  will  prevail  so  that  Cuba 
may enjoy its legitimate right to move forward without 
this searing and cruel blockade. 
Mr. Onemola (Nigeria):  Nigeria voted in favour 

of  resolution  66/6.  I  would  like  to  highlight  the 
following  salient  issues  that  informed  our  action. 
Before  doing  so,  however,  let  me  commend  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  report  (A/66/114)  on  the 
implementation  of  resolution  65/6,  which  calls  for  an 
end  to  the  unilateral  imposition  of  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  on  Cuba.  I  would 
also  commend  Member  States  for 
their  positive 
response to the request contained in that resolution.  
A/66/PV.42
in 
My  delegation 
is  not  comfortable  with 

My  delegation  aligns  itself  with  the  statements 
made  by  the  representatives  of  Argentina  and  Egypt, 
who spoke on behalf of the Group of 77 and China and 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  respectively.  We  also 
associate  ourselves  with  the  statement  made  by  the 
representative  of  Kenya,  who  spoke  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of African States.  

Nigeria  is  fully  committed  to  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  United  Nations  as  contained  in  the 
Charter of the Organization, in particular the principles 
of the sovereign equality of States, non-interference in 
their  internal  affairs  and  the  freedom  of  international 
trade  and  navigation.  Nigeria  believes 
the 
inalienable  right  of  every  State  to  decide  on  the 
development  model  that  suits  its  environment  and 
people.  In  this  regard,  Nigeria  maintains  friendly 
relations with all States and does not favour unilateral 
punitive measures to settle political disputes, especially 
when applied extraterritorially. 

the 
continuation  of  the  economic  embargo  imposed  on 
Cuba, because of the obvious adverse economic impact 
and  humanitarian  consequences  it  has  brought  to  the 
Cuban  people.  The  embargo  runs  counter  to  the 
principles  of  multilateralism, 
law, 
sovereignty  and  free  trade  —  principles  that  we  hold 
dear  and  which  this  body  has  nobly  championed  over 
the  years.  Thus,  together  with  the  overwhelming 
majority  of 
international  community,  Nigeria 
opposes the needless punishment of an innocent people 
and 
the 
structures  set  up  to  enforce  the  embargo  but  also  the 
logic  underpinning  its  existence.  It  is  against  that 
backdrop that my delegation voted for the resolution.  

Nigeria is not oblivious to certain positive effects 
of opposing the embargo. Although such a response is 
long overdue, Nigeria is nonetheless heartened by, and 
indeed  welcomes,  the  position  taken  by  the  United 
States  to  remove  a  number  of  restrictions  on  travel  to 
Cuba from the United States. 

that  concerted  engagement  and 
peaceful negotiation remain the only acceptable means 
for  advancing 
long-term  peace  and  stability.  We 
therefore  appeal  to  the  international  community  to 
exert all the possible necessary pressure on both Cuba 
and  the  United  States  to  exercise  more  flexibility  in 
moving  towards  greater  constructive  and  productive 
favours  dismantling  not  only 
We  reiterate 
international 
the 
therefore 
11-56354 

3 

to 
A/66/PV.42 

engagement,  with  a  view  to  reaching  a  definitive 
resolution of their differences. 

Such  a  démarche  would  lead  not  only  to  the 
lifting  of  the  longest-lasting  trade  embargo  in  human 
history,  but  also  to  an  improvement  in  the  dignity  of 
human  coexistence  and 
the  maintenance  of 
international peace. 
Mr.  Thu  (Myanmar):  I  take  the  floor  to  explain 

my  delegation’s  position  on  resolution  66/6,  entitled 
“Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba”.  

Since  the  resolution  was  first  introduced,  at  the 
forty-seventh  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  in 
1992, my delegation has taken a principled position to 
side with the people of Cuba, in particular the elderly, 
women and children. We hold a sympathetic view that 
the  hardship  and  suffering  caused  by  the  unilateral 
sanctions  dramatically  affect  the  innocent  people  of 
Cuba.  Myanmar  fully  subscribes  to  the  purposes  and 
principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  especially  the  principle  of  the  sovereign 
equality of nations. 

We  firmly  believe  that  only  through  peaceful 
coexistence and non-interference in the internal affairs 
of  countries  can  international  peace  and  security  be 
sustainable.  The 
international 
community  are  vividly  expressed  yearly  by 
the 
adoption  of  this  resolution,  which  calls  for  an  end  to 
the economic, commercial and financial embargo. The 
embargo  against  Cuba  not  only  contradicts 
the 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations but also 
deviates  from  international  law.  For  those  reasons,  as 
in  previous  years,  Myanmar  voted 
in  favour  of 
resolution 66/6. 
Mr.  Almeida  (Brazil)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

economic,  commercial  and  financial  blockade  against 
Cuba  is  an  issue  that  has  been  before  us  for  virtually 
50 years.  Today,  for  the  twentieth  time  in  its  history, 
the General Assembly almost unanimously rejected the 
embargo.  Once  again,  Brazil  has  asserted 
its 
unwavering support for that cause, voting in favour of 
resolution 66/6.  

flagrant  violations  of 
international  law  that  regrettably  continue  to  affect 
international relations, few have outlasted the embargo. 
true  views  of 
the  many 
Among 
the 
step 
and 
their 
We 
join 
constitute 
an 
regional 
important 
relations 
the  unmistakable  voice  of 
Mr.  Adi  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke 
That situation is in contrast to the virtually unanimous 
acknowledgment that there is a need to lift it.  

Besides  being  illegal,  the  blockade  against  Cuba 
has  extremely  damaging  effects  on  the  Cuban  people, 
while  also  affecting  the  rights  of  third  countries.  An 
unequivocal,  swift  and  decisive  halt  to  the  embargo 
towards 
would 
normalizing 
promoting 
cooperation in the Americas.  

In  2009,  we  noted  initial  progress  towards  an 
easing  of  the  blockade.  We  welcome  and  are  closely 
following  the  measures  announced  in  January  in 
Washington,  D.C.  Those  measures,  positive  as  they 
may  be,  do  not  fundamentally  alter  the  embargo;  nor 
do  they  mitigate  the  terrible  effects  it  imposes  on  the 
Cuban people and on third countries.  

the 
international  community  calling  for  an  end  to  the 
blockade against Cuba, as expressed once again in the 
clearest terms by this resolution.  
in 

Arabic):  At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  say  that  my 
country,  Syria,  aligns  itself  with  the  statements  made 
by  the  representative  of  Argentina  on  behalf  of  the 
Group of 77 and China, the representative of Egypt on 
the 
behalf  of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and 
representative  of  Kazakhstan  on  behalf  of 
the 
Organization of Islamic Cooperation.  

The purposes and principles of the Charter of the 
United  Nations  refer  to  the  right  of  States  to  exercise 
sovereignty  on 
to 
non-intervention  in  their  internal  affairs.  Since  its 
establishment, in 1945, the decisions and resolutions of 
the United Nations have referred to the sacred nature of 
those  purposes  and  principles,  which  the  Members  of 
the  United  Nations  should  all  respect  insofar  as  the 
Charter  is  the  constitution  that  represents  the  ultimate 
point of reference for the Organization. 

Given  that  unilateral  embargo  imposed  on  Cuba 
by  the  United  States,  along  with  the  new  measures  to 
tighten it, contradict the principles of international law, 
international humanitarian law and the rules and norms 
that  govern  relations  between  States  —  in  particular 
the  principles  of  the  sovereign  equality  of  States, 
non-intervention 
the 
freedom  of  international  navigation  and  trade  —  this 
embargo  is  without  doubt  illegal.  It  contradicts  the 
internal  affairs  and 
territory  and 
in 
their 
the 
right 
4 

11-56354 
to 
the 
law  and 
The  embargo 
for  Western  Asia 


criteria  accepted  by  the  international  community  for 
addressing the relations between States. 

It  also  represents  an  unprecedented  challenge  to 
international 
legal  credibility  of 
American  policies.  In  that  regard,  the  Syrian  Arab 
Republic would like to refer to the negative effects of 
such  illegal  unilateral  measures  on  lives  and  societies 
around  the  world,  especially  in  developing  countries. 
We  consider  this  a  tool  for  Western  hegemony  that 
could lead to incitement against the West. 
The majority of such measures are being imposed 

by  Western  countries,  especially  by  the  United  States 
of America  and  European  countries,  in  particular  with 
the  purpose  of  weakening  the  Governments  of  States 
that  are  Members  of  the  United  Nations  or  to  exert 
pressure  on  them  to  force  them  to  adopt  certain 
measures  or  to  change  their  policies.  All  those  facts 
were  confirmed  by  the  report  of  the  Economic  and 
Social  Commission 
that  was 
contained in the Secretary-General’s report (A/66/138, 
annex II). 

imposed  on  Cuba  for  almost 
50 years  has  created  an  unacceptable  precedent  that 
falls outside of international law. It has also subjected 
Cuba  to  all  kinds  of  political,  social  and  economic 
damage.  It  has  deepened  the  suffering  of  the  Cuban 
people. And it has placed the United States of America 
in  direct 
international 
community.  The  embargo  has  affected  the  tireless 
efforts  by  the  Cuban  people  to  achieve  welfare  and 
progress.  The  embargo  continues  to  harm  the  Cuban 
economy,  at  a  cost  of  tens  of  billions  of  dollars  —  to 
say nothing of indirect damages, which also amount to 
tens  of  billions  of  dollars.  Moreover,  the  embargo 
impedes the educational and social development of the 
Cuban  people  and  deprives  them  of  the  opportunities 
and  benefits  of  free  trade.  It  also  violates  their  basic 
human rights and freedoms, including the rights to life 
and development. 

The General Assembly has discussed this item for 
20 consecutive years. It has issued resolutions founded 
on  its  overwhelming  collective  consensus.  However, 
the  economic, 
financial,  social  and  commercial 
embargo  is  still  imposed  on  Cuba.  The  support  of 
186 countries  for  resolution  66/6  at 
this  session 
confirms  yet  again  that  the  vast  majority  of  the 
international  community  finds  it  necessary  to  put  an 
confrontation  with 
the 
A/66/PV.42
end  to  the  embargo  imposed  on  Cuba  and  that  it  is 
completely illegal. 

Sanctions imposed by some States on developing 
countries,  including  sanctions  by  European  countries 
and the United States against the Syrian Arab Republic, 
represent an ongoing collective punishment pursued by 
those  States  under  the  pretext  of  protecting  human 
rights. They are a blatant violation of the principles of 
international  law. They undermine the principle of the 
equal sovereignty of States. They constitute a violation 
of  relevant  General  Assembly  resolutions,  the  most 
recent  being  resolution  64/189.  They  also  violate 
resolution  62/183  and  resolution  65/217,  entitled 
“Human  rights  and  unilateral  coercive  measures”, 
which states that unilateral economic measures damage 
trade  relations  among  States  and  impede  the  full 
realization  of  the  rights  set  out  in  the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and  other  human  rights 
instruments,  specifically  the  right  of  individuals  and 
peoples to development.  

It  is  incumbent  upon  the  General  Assembly  to 
take  the  measures  necessary  to  put  an  end  to  the 
policies of embargo, unilateral economic sanctions and 
other  hostile  policies  pursued  by  some  States  outside 
the  framework  of 
law  against  both 
neighbouring and geographically distant countries.  

The  Syrian  Arab  Republic  considers  that  such 
unilateral  economic  sanctions  by  the  United  States  of 
America,  the  European  Union  and  other  States  are  a 
means  of  political  and  economic  coercion  that  aim  to 
impede the political independence and decision-making 
of the Syrian Arab Republic. Taking as a clear example 
of  this  the  international  community’s  rejection  of  the 
American  embargo  against  Cuba  and 
the  Israeli 
embargo  against  Gaza,  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  and 
the  overwhelming  majority  of  States  consider  that  the 
continued  imposition  by  some  States  Members  of  the 
Organization  of  unilateral  economic  sanctions  against 
developing  countries  represents  a  violation  of  the 
principles  of 
the  rules  of 
international 
the 
economies  and  development  efforts  of  developing 
countries, 
economic 
cooperation  and  impede  international  efforts  to  move 
towards  an  open  and  non-discriminatory  multilateral 
trade system.  

Those facts are confirmed by the summary of the 
Trade  and  Development  Report  of  the  United  Nations 
law  and 
sanctions  damage 
international 
trade.  Such 
international 
international 
undermine 
11-56354 

5 
the 
represented  by 
international  community 
It is for those reasons that we voted in favour of 
A/66/PV.42 

Conference  on  Trade  and  Development,  which 
discusses  the  latest  developments  regarding  the  effect 
of  unilateral  sanctions  on 
trade  of 
targeted 
countries, including the Syrian Arab Republic. 

Sanctions  affect  mainly  trade  revenue,  foreign 
exchange  earnings  and  employment  opportunities. 
They  lead  to  the  deterioration  of  economic  and  social 
conditions  of  populations,  especially  for  middle-  and 
low-income people. We hope that all forms of embargo 
imposed  by  the  United  States  against  Cuba  will  be 
lifted  and  that  other  embargoes  will  also  lifted, 
including that against Syria. We hope that the voice of 
the 
the 
General Assembly and other international organizations 
and  institutions  will  be  heard  by  the  United  States  of 
America.  We  hope  that  the  legislative  branch  in  the 
United States will heed that voice.  

resolution 66/6. 
Mrs. Waffa-Ogoo (Gambia): My delegation is of 

the view that, given the difficult challenges confronting 
all nations, big or small, rich or poor, this is neither the 
time nor the season to impose sanctions on States or to 
reinforce  existing  ones.  Even  in  the  best  of  times, 
sanctions, 
economic  blockades 
invariably inflict untold suffering on the citizens of the 
country  being  targeted  by  such  punitive  measures. As 
the  global  financial  and  economic  crisis  continues 
unabated,  all  nations  are  experiencing  stress  and  are 
under  constant  pressure  from  the  negative  impacts  of 
the  crisis,  and  more  so  those  that  are  targeted  by 
blockades, such as the one carried on under the Helms-
Burton Act, which has been unjustly imposed on Cuba 
by the Government of the United States since 1961. 
The economic, commercial and financial embargo 

against  Cuba  is  an  aggression  on  that  sovereign  State 
that puts its economy under siege, with the consequent 
negative  downstream  effects  on  ordinary  Cubans, 
particularly  vulnerable  groups, 
the 
deterioration  of 
living  standards.  As  many 
delegations have pointed out, the embargo continues to 
undermine  the  capacity  of  the  heroic  Cuban  people  to 
achieve  sustainable  development, 
the  Millennium 
Development  Goals  and  other  internationally  agreed 
development goals.  

In  the  light  of  what  I  have  just  said,  the 
Government  of  the  Gambia  has  been  consistent  and 
unwavering  in  its  support  of  the  Government  and 
embargoes 
resulting 
their 
and 
in 

thank 
for  his 
to  support 
the  resolutions  of 
the  Secretary-General 
people  of  Cuba,  in  denouncing  the  embargo  at  every 
opportunity  and  in  calling  on  the  United  States  to 
repeal  the  laws  relating  to  the  blockade  of  Cuba. The 
Gambia has voted in support of resolution 66/6, and we 
will  continue 
the 
Assembly  on  the  necessity  of  ending  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  on  Cuba 
until  such  time  as  the  United  States  finally  heeds  the 
deafening calls by Member States and the international 
community  and  decides  to  put  an  end  to  the  unjust 
punitive  sanctions  it  has  imposed  on  the  people  of 
Cuba. 

In conclusion, I wish to align my statement with 
those made earlier by the representatives of Argentina, 
Egypt,  Kenya  and  Kazakhstan  on  behalf  of  the  Group 
of  77  and  China,  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  the 
Group  of  African  States  and  the  Organization  of 
Islamic  Cooperation,  respectively.  In  addition,  I  wish 
to 
report 
(A/66/114). 
Mr.  Daoud  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  Because 

there is great awareness on the part of the international 
community  and  a  total  rejection  by  Member  States  of 
the adoption of unilateral coercive economic measures 
beyond a country’s borders, and because such measures 
are a means of political and economic coercion, we are 
today  considering  agenda  item  41,  entitled  “Necessity 
of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  against  Cuba”. 
The  continued  support  for  this  resolution  year  after 
year  is  an  indication  of  the  total  rejection  of  the 
unilateral embargo imposed on Cuba due to its blatant 
violation  of  the  basic  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations,  international  law  and  the  norms 
governing 
economic, 
commercial 
relations among States. 

The  Government  of  the  Sudan  is  pursuing  a 
policy  based  on  full  respect  for  international  law,  the 
principles of the Charter and the sovereign equality of 
States  and  non-interference  in  their  internal  affairs.  In 
accordance  with  the  position  of  the  Sudan  and  with 
what  I  have  just  mentioned,  my  delegation  condemns 
the  imposition  of  economic  and  political  sanctions  on 
developing  countries  as  a  blatant  violation  of  the 
Charter,  and  notes  their  destructive  effects  on  the 
efforts  of 
to  achieve  sustainable 
development. My delegation therefore rejects unilateral 
sanctions,  which  since  November  1997  have  even 
affected  our  country,  for  they  violate  the  legitimate 
those  countries 
financial 
and 
6 

11-56354 
technology 
to  promote  human 


right  of  the  people  of  the  Sudan  to  choose  the 
economic,  social  and  political  regimes  conducive  to 
achieving their aspirations and expectations. 

The  unilateral  measures  imposed  by  the  United 
States  against  the  Sudan  continue  to  negatively  affect 
the living conditions of the Sudanese people. They also 
hinder  the  Sudanese  Government’s  efforts  to  achieve 
the Millennium Development Goals, eliminate poverty, 
strengthen  health  care  and  education  and  obtain  the 
necessary 
and 
agricultural development. 

Despite  the  economic  and  commercial  embargo 
on  the  Sudan,  my  country  continues  to  strengthen  its 
bilateral,  economic  and  political 
relations  with 
developing countries, including countries of the South 
and many developed countries, which has had positive 
effects on its economic and social development to date. 

The Sudan therefore calls for the establishment of 
a  better  world  where  all  States,  big  or  small,  can 
peacefully  coexist.  Such  peaceful  coexistence  will 
require  the  commitment  of  all  States  to  the  basic 
principles  of  the  Charter  and  to  managing  inter-State 
relations in a sound manner. 

In that respect, we urge the States that have taken 
unilateral  measures  or  enacted  legislation  that  affect 
the sovereignty of States to take the necessary steps to 
invalidate  or  repeal  such  measures,  in  line  with 
strengthening  respect  for  the  sovereignty  of  other 
States and for the Charter of the United Nations. Such 
measures  will  also  strengthen  mutual  cooperation 
aimed at achieving peace, development and prosperity 
for all peoples. 

Mrs.  Phommachanh  (Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic) (spoke in French): As in previous years, the 
Lao People’s Democratic Republic has voted in favour 
of  resolution  66/6,  which  was  introduced  in  the 
Assembly  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez 
Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba,  whose 
presence here today we welcome. 

the 
associates 
statements delivered by the representative of Argentina 
on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  and  by  the 
representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement.  

For  the  twentieth  consecutive  year,  the  General 
Assembly has adopted by an overwhelming majority a 
the  economic, 
resolution  calling  for  an  end 
My  delegation 
itself  with 
A/66/PV.42
commercial  and  financial  blockade  imposed  on  Cuba 
by  the  United  States  of  America  and  calling  on  all 
States to respect the Charter of the United Nations and 
the  norms  of  international  law  and  to  annul  or  repeal 
all laws resulting in extraterritorial effects that violate 
the sovereignty of States and the legitimate interests of 
entities and persons under their jurisdiction, as well as 
of freedom of trade and navigation. 

Despite  the  repeated  calls  made  by  the  General 
Assembly,  the  embargo  and  its  extraterritorial  effects 
remain  fully  in  force. That  is  a  grave  violation  of  the 
purposes and principles of the Charter and of relevant 
resolutions  of  the  United  Nations.  The  embargo  has 
also caused considerable economic and financial losses 
for Cuba. It hinders the efforts of the Cuban people to 
eliminate  poverty,  promote  economic  and  social 
development and achieve the Millennium Development 
Goals.  It  also  hinders  their  right  to  life  and  to 
development.  It  prevents  Cuba  from  maintaining 
normal  economic,  commercial  and  financial  relations 
with  other  countries.  Consequently,  the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic  expresses  its  opposition  once 
again  to  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  which  has  been  unilaterally  imposed  and 
maintained  for  a  half  century  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba. 

We  reiterate  our  support  and  unfailing  solidarity 
with the Cuban people and we join the call made by the 
international  community  for  the  immediate  end  of  the 
embargo imposed on Cuba and on its people. 

Mr. Bart (Saint Kitts and Nevis): Saint Kitts and 
Nevis would like to add its voice in support of agenda 
item  41,  entitled  “Necessity  of  ending  the  economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United  States  of  America  against  Cuba”,  and  to  give 
our reasons for voting in favour of resolution 66/6.  

the 
statements  made  by  the  representatives  of  Belize  and 
Argentina  on  behalf  of  the  Caribbean  Community  and 
the Group of 77 and China, respectively. 

Over  the  years,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  has  had 
good relations with the United States of America. That 
country continues to be one of our closest and strongest 
partners. We  respect  the  role  that  the  United  States  of 
America has played in international relations and in the 
establishment  and  promotion  of  this  very  body.  It  is  a 
global leader, and we acknowledge and remain grateful 
for its role in international affairs. 
My  delegation 
itself  with 
associates 
to 
11-56354 

7 

the 
support  of 
international 
that  restrict 
A/66/PV.42 


We recognize its recent concession on the matter 
of  the  Cuban  embargo.  However,  that  is  not  enough. 
Friends  must  tell  friends  when  they  are  wrong  or 
misguided,  and  must  be  prepared  to  speak  truth  to 
power  when  it  is  right  to  do  so.  Today,  in  supporting 
and  voting  for  the  resolution,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis, 
despite  its  size,  continues  to  be  an  advocate  of  that 
truth. 
This is an extremely important matter that goes to 

the  very  core  of 
law,  sovereignty, 
non-intervention  and  the  strengthened  role  of  the 
United  Nations  in  international  affairs.  For  the  past 
20 years,  Members  have  voted  in  favour  of  this 
resolution. This  year,  the  resolution  continues  to  have 
the  overwhelming 
international 
community. Saint Kitts and Nevis, in its contribution to 
the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/66/114)  on  this 
matter,  advised  that  we  do  not  support  or  apply  any 
laws  or  measures 
the  free  flow  of 
international  trade.  We  also  advised  that  we  do  not 
apply  laws  with  extraterritorial  effect  that  impinge  on 
the  sovereignty  of  other  States  and  the  legitimate 
interests of entities or persons under their jurisdiction. 
This is a principled position adopted by Member States 
of this body. 

therefore  feels  very 
strongly about bringing the embargo imposed on Cuba 
to  an  end.  Cuba  is  one  of  our  closest  allies  and  is  a 
pan-Caribbean partner. It has aided in the development 
of the health care system and other areas in Saint Kitts 
and Nevis. There is much from which the international 
community  has  benefited  and  can  benefit 
in 
cooperating  with  Cuba,  just  as  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis 
has benefited. 

We see this embargo as a burden on our brothers 
and  sisters  in  Cuba.  The  negative  impact  on  the 
economy  of  that  small  developing  State  is  quite 
profound,  and  unfair  to  the  people  of  Cuba.  The 
international community remains in the grip of a global 
recession.  While  many  of  us  rely  on  partnership  with 
other countries to recover, Cuba remains stunted by the 
embargo and unable to contribute to the economies of 
scale  generated  by  such  great  partnerships.  This  goes 
against  the  very  principle  of  partnership  and  free 
trade —  the  very  principles  held  dear  by  those  who 
support  the  embargo.  The  fact  that  the  overwhelming 
majority  of  Member  States  continue  to  support  the 
resolution  is  compelling  evidence  that  the  embargo  is 
wrong. The impact that the embargo continues to have 
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis 
improve 
the  United  States 
impasse.  We  call  on 
on  access  to  modern  medical  technology  and  drugs 
cannot be ignored. 

This  embargo  is  wrong  on  all  levels,  but  none 
more so than on humanitarian grounds. We implore all 
Member  States  to  respect  the  sanctity  of  the  General 
Assembly and the decisions it makes. Failure to do so 
is  an  affront  to  multilateralism  and  undermines  the 
functioning  of  the  United  Nations  system.  It  is  my 
delegation’s hope that the two countries, Cuba and the 
United  States  of  America,  can 
their 
relationship  and  embark  on  a  process  of  partnership 
and cooperation. 

There is much we can learn from each other, but 
the  embargo  remains  an  impediment  to  that  progress. 
That  is  why  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  supports  resolution 
66/6 and voted in favour of it, and why we repeat our 
call  on  both  countries  to  find  common  ground  so  that 
the  entire  international  community  can  move  on  from 
this 
to 
discontinue this embargo, because, for all the good the 
United  States  may  do,  the  embargo  continues  to  stain 
its image and character. 
Mr.  Sin  Son  Ho  (Democratic  People’s  Republic 

of Korea): The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
the  Cuban 
would 
delegation  on 
the 
adoption  at this morning’s meeting of  resolution 66/6, 
entitled 
economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United  States  of America  against  Cuba”.  It  is  another 
victory  in  the  just  struggle  of  the  Cuban  people  to 
oppose foreign pressure and coercive acts and to foster 
their country’s development. 

It has been 20 years since this resolution was first 
officially  introduced  for  consideration  at  the  General 
Assembly,  resulting  in  the  adoption  of  resolution 
47/19. In the past few decades, many documents have 
been  adopted  at  major  international  and  regional 
meetings, including at the General Assembly and at the 
Summits  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  denouncing 
the  United  States  embargo  against  Cuba.  Demand 
continues 
the 
termination  of  the  United  States  unilateral  coercive 
measures  against  Cuba.  Nevertheless,  the  unilateral 
and  immoral  United  States  embargo  on  Cuba,  which 
was imposed half a century ago, still remains in place, 
even  today,  after  the  first  decade  of  the  new  century 
has  already  ended.  It  causes  serious  problems  for  the 
the  overwhelming  support  for 
to  sincerely  congratulate 
to  grow  at 
the  global 
“Necessity 
level  for 
like 
of 
ending 
the 
8 

11-56354 
the 
and 
illegal 
international 
extraterritorial 
third  countries 


Cuban Government and people in their efforts towards 
economic  and  social  development,  inflicting  hundreds 
of  billions  of  dollars  in  economic  damage  on  the 
country. The  embargo,  being  extraterritorial  in  nature, 
also  seriously  affects 
that  have 
economic and commercial relations with Cuba. 

It  is  evident  that  the  United  States  embargo  on 
Cuba is aimed at overthrowing the social system freely 
chosen  by  the  Cuban  people.  All  these  facts  prove 
clearly that the United States leaves no stone unturned 
in pursuing its political agenda, and that it unilaterally 
defies recognized international law and the unanimous 
community.  My 
demands  of 
delegation  strongly  condemns 
the  United  States 
embargo  against  Cuba,  considering  that  it  violates  the 
United  Nations  Charter  and  international  law  in  every 
aspect,  and  also  flagrantly  and  massively  infringes 
upon the sovereignty and right to development of Cuba 
and  its  people.  My  delegation  takes  this  opportunity 
once  again  to  urge  the  United  States  to  lift  the 
unilateral, 
economic, 
commercial  and  financial  embargo  against  Cuba  as 
soon  as  possible,  in  response  to  the  demand  of  the 
overwhelming majority of Member States. 

Finally,  my  delegation  expresses  its  continuing 
support for, and solidarity with, the Cuban Government 
and  people  in  their  active  struggle  to  safeguard  their 
sovereignty and work for their just cause in the face of 
this unprecedented United States embargo. 
Mr.  Stancanelli  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Argentina  voted  in  favour  resolution  66/6  and  will 
fully implement its provisions, as we did with regard to 
the  previous  General  Assembly  resolutions  on  the 
economic, commercial and financial embargo imposed 
by the United States of America on Cuba.  

Argentina’s  act  No.  24871,  promulgated  on 
5 September 1997, established a legislative framework 
for the scope of foreign laws on Argentine territory. Its 
first article states that foreign laws are not valid when 
they claim to have extraterritorial effect by means of an 
economic  embargo  or  restriction  of  investments  in  a 
specific  country  designed  to  lead  to  a  change  of 
Government in that country or to affect its right to self-
determination.  Argentina’s  vote  in  favour  of  adopting 
this  resolution  reflects  our  traditional  position  of 
support  for  doing  away  with  this  kind  of  unilateral 
measure,  as  well  as  our  commitment  to  the  United 
Nations Charter, international law and multilateralism. 
A/66/PV.42
by 
respectively, 
statements  made, 

The  embargo  against  Cuba  contravenes  the  rules 
of  international  law  and  the  principles  of  the  United 
Nations  Charter.  However,  despite  the  reiterated  and 
almost  unanimous  calls  for  its  elimination  from  the 
international  community,  and  from  the  Assembly  in 
particular,  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  on  Cuba  endures. Argentina  joins  the  almost 
unanimous  rejection  of  the  embargo  and  reiterates  its 
position  against  such  measures  and  its  support  for 
Cuba against the blockade. 
Mr.  Hamza  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania): 

Thank  you,  Sir,  for  granting  me  this  opportunity  to 
speak after the voting. My delegation aligns itself with 
the 
the 
representatives of Argentina on behalf of the Group of 
77  and  China,  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement,  and  Kenya  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
African States. 

Please  allow  me  to  express  my  sincere  gratitude 
to  the  Secretary-General  for  his  comprehensive  report 
(A/66/114) on the implementation of resolution 65/6. 
As we have done in previous years, this year the 

joined  other 
United  Republic  of  Tanzania  again 
Member States to vote in favour of resolution 66/6, on 
ending  the  economic  and  financial  embargo  on  Cuba. 
We have voted in support of the people of Cuba, who 
have suffered economically and socially for so long. 

My  delegation  believes  that  the  Cuban  people 
have  the  right,  as  stipulated  in  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations, 
live  as  meaningful  and  as 
prosperous  a  life  as  any  other  human  being  in  the 
world.  The  United  Republic  of  Tanzania  would  like 
once  again  to  reiterate  its  continued  support  for  the 
people of Cuba in ending the embargo. 

For  many  consecutive  years,  and  by  an 
overwhelming  majority,  the  General  Assembly  has 
adopted  resolutions 
the 
economic,  trade  and  financial  blockade  and  embargo 
policies against Cuba.  
however, 
despite  all  the  resolutions  and  repeated  calls  by  this 
body  and  other  international  agencies,  the  citizens  of 
Cuba  continue 
international 
community did not care. 

The  United  Republic  of  Tanzania  has  always 
believed  that  an  embargo  of  any  magnitude  has  an 
adverse effect on the common people. It is always the 
people  who  suffer  the  most.  In  my  country  we  have  a 
that  demand  an  end 
Unfortunately, 
to  suffer  as 
the 
to 
to 
if 
11-56354 

9 

A/66/PV.42 

saying that says that whenever bulls fight it is the grass 
that  gets  hurt.  It  is  high  time  for  the  suffering  to  end 
once and for all.  
While  we  welcome  the  encouraging  steps  taken 

by 
the  embargo 
the  United  States  since  2009, 
nonetheless  remains  largely  intact.  It  continues  to 
severely  constrain  Cuba’s  development  and 
the 
improvement  of  its  citizens’  standard  of  living.  We 
believe  that  more  remains  to  be  done  to  ease  the 
suffering of Cuban citizens. 
The  United  Republic  of  Tanzania  is  of  the  view 

that  an  amicable solution could be reached  as soon as 
possible  if  only  the  two  parties  could  show  political 
will to do so. We strongly support and believe in direct 
dialogue  between  the  two  parties.  We  therefore  urge 
them  to  sit  down  to  iron  out  their  differences  for  the 
betterment of Cuban citizens. 
Ms.  Gomes  (Angola):  The  delegation  of Angola 

voted  in  favour  of  resolution  66/6,  which  I  gladly 
welcome. 

After  many  years  of  the  economic,  financial  and 
commercial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America  against  Cuba,  the  Republic  of  Angola  joins 
the  international  community  in  calling  for  an  end  to 
that measure, which has lasted more than half a century 
and constitutes a flagrant violation of human rights and 
of the rights of the people of Cuba. 

For  20  consecutive  years,  the  General Assembly 
has  adopted  a  resolution  urging  all  countries,  in 
compliance with the Charter of the United Nations, to 
withdraw  all  laws,  regulations  and  extraterritorial 
measures that undermine the sovereignty of States and 
the  legitimate  rights  and  interests  of  entities  and 
persons under the jurisdiction of those States and affect 
their freedom of trade and navigation.  
We  remain  perplexed  that  the  United  States 

in  place.  The 
embargo  against  Cuba 
extraterritorial  policies  arising  from 
the  embargo 
constitute  a  violation  of  the  sovereignty  of  States  and 
an  encroachment  upon  the  rights  of  persons,  entities, 
institutions and companies and upon the jurisdiction of 
such  States 
to  establish  or  propose  economic, 
commercial,  financial,  scientific  or  technical  relations 
with  the  Republic  of  Cuba,  to  the  detriment  of  that 
country’s social and economic development. 
We  appeal  to  the  international  community  to 

continue its efforts to support a deeper engagement by 
remains 
According 
to 
the  Secretary-General’s 
both  countries  in  constructive  dialogue  in  order  to 
identify  a  definitive  solution  to  the  problem.  That 
problem is man-made, and its solution depends only on 
goodwill.  We  reiterate  our  appeal  for  such  political 
goodwill. 

report 
contained  in  document  A/66/114,  there  has  been  no 
progress  towards  ending  the  embargo,  even  with  the 
timid  measures  announced  by 
the  United  States 
Administration,  which  extended  the  embargo  for  an 
additional  year,  thereby  worsening  the  impact  of  its 
measures. The embargo goes beyond the financial and 
commercial  relations  between  the  United  States  and 
Cuba.  Its  effects  in  this  globalized  world  severely 
penalize the Cuban people, since the embargo prevents 
the implementation of economic programmes aimed at 
the socio-economic stability of that island. 

By  adhering  to  the  principles  embodied  in  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  namely,  respect  for  all 
relevant resolutions adopted by the General Assembly, 
the Republic of Angola reaffirms its commitment to the 
norms  of  international  law  that  support  the  need  to 
eliminate  coercive  economic  measures  as  a  means  of 
political and economic persuasion. 

In that context, the Government of Angola voted 
in  favour  of  the  resolution,  since  the  embargo  is  in 
flagrant  violation  of  the  right  of  sovereignty  and 
equality  among  States,  as  well  as  the  policy  of 
non-intervention in the internal affairs of other States.  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  A 

representative has asked to take the floor in exercise of 
the  right  of  reply.  May  I  remind  delegations  that 
statements  in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are 
limited  to  10  minutes  for  the  first  intervention  and  to 
five minutes for the second intervention, and should be 
made by delegations from their seats.  

Cuba. 
in 

Spanish):  I  should  like  to  express  my  thanks  for  the 
professional  and  fair  solution  found  to  the  breakdown 
of the voting machine this morning.  

The  only  justification  for  my  speaking  at  this 
stage  in  the  debate  is  the  flagrant  lies  put  forward  by 
Mr.  Godard  this  morning.  You  can  fool  some  of  the 
people some of the time, but not all of the people all of 
the 
the 
I now give the floor now to the representative of 
Mr.  Rodríguez  Parrilla
time.  This  morning’s 
statement 
(Cuba) 
(spoke 
by 
10 

11-56354 


representative  of  the  United  States  was  lifted  directly 
from  the  one  they  made  last  year  and  in  2009. 
Mr. Godard  came  here  to  defend  the  policies  of 
President Bush from 2005. He also spoke to defend the 
policies of Mr. Obama, except in 2009. One has to ask 
whose policies he is defending. 
I have here a copy of the Daytona Beach Morning 

Journal dated 16 May 1972, stating that Mr. Ronald D. 
Goddard,  the  director  of  the  Miami  Office  of  the 
Coordinator  of  Cuban Affairs,  had  been  reassigned  to 
Washington.  Mr.  Goddard,  who  had  been  a  Peace 
Corps  volunteer  —  carrying  out  very  interesting 
missions,  about  which  little  is  known,  in  Ecuador, 
Nicaragua,  Panama,  Costa  Rica,  Chile  and  Turkey,  as 
well  as  other  projects  related  to  Central  America  — 
was from 1969 to 1972 the head of the Miami Office of 
the Coordinator of Cuban Affairs. 

Another  declassified  official  document  states,  as 
a  sixth  point,  that  the  Coordinator  will  take  on  the 
same  responsibility  for  covert  operations  as  for  legal 
ones.  However,  I  agree  with  him  that  the  blockade  is 
just one facet of the United States policy against Cuba. 
He  is  certainly  well  aware  that  the  other  principal 
aspect is that of internal subversion, the deployment of 
agents  in  the  service  of  the  United  States  in  our 
territory,  and  the  carrying  out  of  covert  operations  by 
the  United 
International 
Development  (USAID)  and  the  Central  Intelligence 
Agency,  with  millions  of  dollars  in  funding,  about 
which we know only a part. 

As  I  have  read  out  on  many  occasions  the 
provisions  of  the  Geneva  Convention  on  genocide,  I 
will  ensure  that  a  copy  of  it  reaches  the  desk  of  the 
United States. 
is 

responsible  for  many  extrajudicial  executions,  some 
carried out by means of drones or unmanned aircraft, in 
which American citizens and minors have been among 
those  killed.  It  is  responsible  for  torture,  kidnapping, 
1,245  covert  flights  and  secret  jails  in  Europe.  It  also 
maintains  a  concentration  camp  where  torture  is  used 
on  the  land  it  is  illegally  occupying  in  Guantánamo, 
Cuba. 

The  United  States  and  Cuba  are  not  trading 
partners.  The  possibility  of  purchasing  food,  under 
difficult  circumstances,  in  the  United  States  is  the 
result  of  the  endeavours  of  those  sectors  that  oppose 
the  policy  of  the  blockade.  Such  purchases  are  made 
The  Government  of 
the  United  States 
States  Agency 
for 
A/66/PV.42
the  provisions  of 
under  very  strict  regulations  that  cannot  be  described 
as  trade  relations,  even  less  as  measures  indicating 
flexibility.  They  flout  all 
the 
international trading system. 

Mr.  Goddard  deliberately  lied  by  using  two  sets 
of statistics at this meeting. Specifically, he included in 
the  so-called  donations  of  humanitarian  aid  to  Cuba 
funds  that  USAID  uses  to  undermine  constitutional 
order in my country; remittances that Cubans living in 
the United States send to their family members, despite 
official regulations and restrictions; and donations that 
non-governmental  organizations  provide  with  great 
difficulty,  given  the  position  of  the  United  States 
Government,  and  which  in  2010  were  extremely 
scanty. 

The  United  States  has  better  things  to  do  than 
wage  wars  that  have  killed  more  than  a  million 
civilians. Instead of destabilizing foreign Governments, 
it would do better to heed the voices of its own people. 
Near  where  we  are  now,  on  Wall  Street,  instead  of 
brutally repressing its citizens, it should listen to what 
they are saying. They are complaining that there is no 
true  democracy  when  everything  is  determined  by 
economic power, when corporations put profits  before 
the  protection  of  people,  when  egoism  triumphs  over 
justice,  when  inequality  and  oppression  prevail  in  the 
Government. People complain that they have lost their 
homes, 
their  social  security 
programmes,  while 
to  receive 
shocking  bonuses.  They  complain  that  students  are 
burdened by debt, the courts of justice are corrupt, and 
that  millions  of  dollars  are  being  spent  to  eliminate 
health  insurance  contracts  for  workers.  They  also 
lament the fact that the United States participates in the 
torture  and  assassination  of 
innocent  civilians 
extraterritorially and that it perpetuates colonialism. 

A  total  of  1,972  people  have  been  executed  in 
that  country  since  1976  as  a  result  of  judicial  errors. 
More than 3,000 United States citizens are currently on 
Death  Row.  A  few  weeks  ago,  even  as  the  General 
Assembly debate was being held, the world was aghast 
at the unjust execution of Troy Davis. 

So  when  Mr.  Goddard  says  that  the  American 
citizen and USAID contractor was brought to justice in 
Cuba for having provided Internet access to the Jewish 
community, he knows perfectly well, being a specialist 
in  that  area,  that  Mr.  Gross  was  carrying  out  a  covert 
their  pensions  and 
the  rich  continue 
11-56354 

11 
cruel, 
inhuman 
A/66/PV.42 

operation  and  that  he  had  committed  crimes  that  are 
also punishable under United States law. 

In  Cuba,  children  want  to  know  why  in  that 
country  terrorists  are  left  free  and  anti-terrorists  are 
jailed.  The  five  anti-terrorist  fighters  from  Cuba  have 
suffered  under 
and  degrading 
conditions  for  the  only  crime  of  trying  to  prevent  the 
commission  of  terrorist  acts  against  the  people  of  the 
United  States.  They  must  all  be  freed,  even  the  one 
who  is  on  conditional  release  and  cannot  rejoin  his 
family. That would be an act of justice, and, at the very 
least, a humanitarian one. Only in a country such as the 
United States would the Chair of the House Committee 
on Foreign Affairs — a fierce woman — pay tribute to 
the  international  terrorist  Luis  Posada  Carriles,  who 
was  responsible  for  the  bombing  of  a  civilian  aircraft 
in mid-flight, and refer to the members of a children’s 
theatre  troupe  visiting  the  United  States  as  spies  and 
terrorists. 


The  political  battle  being  waged  today  clearly 
shows, as Commander-in-Chief Fidel Castro Ruz wrote 
yesterday in an article on the genocidal role of NATO, 
“the need to put an end not just to the blockade but also 
to  the  system  that  engenders  injustice  on  our  planet, 
degrades  its  natural  resources  and  jeopardizes  human 
survival. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  We 

have heard the only speaker in exercise of the right of 
reply. 
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 

Assembly to conclude its consideration of agenda item 
41? 


It was so decided. 
  The meeting rose at 4.30 p.m. 
12 

11-56354 
