
A/66/PV.24
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

24th plenary meeting 
Saturday, 24 September 2011, 6 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 







In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Mayr-
Harting (Austria), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 6.10 p.m. 


Agenda item 8 (continued) 
General debate 

The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 
Excellency Mr. Jean Asselborn, Deputy Prime Minister 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Grand Duchy of 
Luxembourg. 

Mr. Asselborn (Luxembourg) (spoke in French): 
Luxembourg  is  very  pleased  that  the  President  of  the 
European Council, Herman Van Rompuy, was able for 
the first time to address this Assembly on behalf of the 
European  Union  (see A/66/PV.15),  and  I  align  myself 
fully with his statement. 

Never  before  has  the  United  Nations  been  so 
indispensable;  never  before  have  expectations  of  it 
been so great. We are going through a period  of great 
turbulence; a period, as the Secretary-General has said, 
burdened  by  great  difficulties,  but  also  rich 
in 
opportunity  for  the  progress  of  humankind.  It  is  our 
duty to respond to the expectations placed on us by all 
those  across  the  world  who  seek  peace,  security  and 
dignity. 

On 9 July 2011 a new State was born before the 
eyes  of  the  entire  world.  In  January,  during  their 
referendum  on  independence,  the  people  of  South 
Sudan spoke loudly and clearly. More than 98 per cent 
the 
of  the  electorate  voted  for  the  independence  to  which 
the  southern  part  of  Africa’s  largest  country  had 
aspired  for  so  long.  Luxembourg  is  proud  to  have 
recognized  South  Sudan  on  9  July,  even  before  the 
historic moment of its admission to the United Nations. 

The independence of South Sudan is a testament 
to  the  willingness  of  the  two  parties  in  the  long 
Sudanese  conflict  to  implement  the  Comprehensive 
Peace Agreement. It is now up to both parties to show 
the same willingness to implement new agreements to 
address 
issues  of  good-neighbourly  relations 
between the Sudan and South Sudan. The two Sudans, 
and  their  peoples  first  of  all,  will  benefit  if  the 
relationship 
finally  becomes  a  constructive  one, 
allowing  for  socio-economic  development  on  a  new 
basis.  

The  international  community  stands  ready  to 
support both countries. The development of the Sudan 
and support of the new State of South Sudan on its path 
to  viability,  stability  and  prosperity  are  tasks  that  we 
must  all 
together  and  cooperatively.  The 
European Union is actively engaged. Luxembourg fully 
supports  its  efforts  and  is  also  committed  bilaterally, 
particularly  regarding  demining  activities 
to  help 
remove  the  vestiges  of  a  war  that  was  so  long  that  it 
has marked several generations of Sudanese. 

A few days ago, in recognizing the full powers of 
Libya’s  National  Transitional  Council,  the  Assembly 
blessed,  in  a  way,  the  end  of  Colonel  Al-Qadhafi’s 
dictatorial  regime,  one  that  suffocated  the  whole  of 
Libyan society for 42 years and did not hesitate to use 
tackle 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-51378 (E) 
*1151378* 

to  protect 
those  unable 
Our  Organization  was  able 
A/66/PV.24 

heavy  weapons  against  its  own  population  without 
discrimination, trampling on its people’s aspirations for 
freedom. 

The  international  community  had  to  react,  to 
assume  its  responsibility  to  protect  Libyan  men, 
women and children who were under fire — and who, 
unfortunately,  are  still  under  fire  in  Sirte  and  Bani 
Walid. We did not want to reproach ourselves yet again 
for having hesitated too long, for having neglected our 
responsibility 
to  defend 
themselves against the cruelty of their own authorities. 
We  did  not  want  once  again  to  be  the  powerless 
witnesses of large-scale violence.  

react  and 
demonstrate its capacity to act in a decisive, timely and 
just  manner.  The  General  Assembly  suspended  Libya 
from  the  Human  Rights  Council.  Acting  within  the 
remit  of  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter,  the  Security 
Council  authorized  all  measures  necessary  to  protect 
the population and civilian areas under threat of attack. 
The Council was able to act so decisively because the 
international  community,  and  the  region  in  particular, 
supported  its  action.  The  Arab  League  played  a  very 
important  role 
this  regard,  which  I  heartily 
commend. 

Today,  thanks  to  their  courage  and  the  resolute 
support  of  the  international  community,  the  Libyan 
people  are  free  to  choose  their  future.  Together  with 
our  European  Union  partners,  we  stand  ready  to 
support Libya on its path to democracy and to help the 
National  Transitional  Council  in  its  immense  task  of 
establishing  a  new  State,  in  which  human  rights  are 
respected  and  every  element  of  society  can  find  a 
place.  As  Mr.  Jean  Ping,  who  was  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  fifty-ninth  session,  put  it  so 
well  in  Paris  on  1  September,  Africa  will  benefit 
enormously from the emergence of a democratic Libya, 
at peace with itself and with its neighbours. We will all 
benefit from it. 

In  Tunisia  and  in  Egypt,  the  people  have  also 
prevailed in their quests for liberty and the rewriting of 
the social contract, in the face of the supporters of their 
former regimes. In other countries in the region, people 
must,  alas,  continue  to  struggle  to  achieve  respect  for 
their fundamental freedoms.  

In Syria, the regime continues to conduct a brutal 
campaign  against  its  own  population.  Every  appeal, 
including  that  of  the  Secretary-General,  to  end  the 
in 
to 

so 
far 
repression  has 
remained 
violence  and 
unanswered.  As 
the  Human  Rights  Council  on 
23 August  decided,  commendably,  to  send  urgently  an 
independent  international  commission  of  inquiry  to 
Syria,  the  Security  Council  should  also  assume  its 
responsibility  in  the  matter.  The  credibility  of  the 
United  Nations  as  a  moral  force,  one  that  protects 
civilian  populations  and  their  rights,  is  at  stake. 
Equally  at  stake  is  the  capacity  of  the  United  Nations 
to be present in crises, revolts and disasters that assault 
peoples’ dignity and threaten their very existence. 

Peace,  security,  dignity  —  these  are  also  key 
words  when  we  talk  about  the  Israeli-Palestinian 
conflict:  the  right  of  two  peoples  to  live  in  peace, 
security and dignity.  
A  solution  to  this  conflict,  which  has  lasted  too 

long  and  has  poisoned 
the  entire  region,  must 
necessarily  be  reached  through  the  recognition  of  the 
right of both parties — not just one of them — to live 
in  a  sovereign  and  viable  State.  This  is  unfortunately 
not  yet  the  case,  despite  the  hope  inspired  by  the 
courageous  words  of  President  Obama  at  this  very 
rostrum last year (see A/65/PV.11). On the contrary, we 
have  seen  neither  a  halt  to  the  illegal  construction  of 
settlements, nor a significant lifting of the embargo on 
the  Gaza  strip.  The  revival  of  direct  peace  talks  was 
short-lived. 
We  all  heard  Palestinian  President  Mahmoud 

Abbas’s  vibrant  appeal  yesterday,  his  call 
for 
recognition  of  the  his  people’s  legitimate  right  to  a 
State and for acceptance of the aspirations of Palestine 
to have a seat in the Assembly and to fully assume its 
place among the nations of the world. I can only hope 
that his appeal will be heard. Israel’s legitimate desire 
to  live  for  the  long  term  in  security  depends  on  the 
realization  of  the  right  of  the  Palestinians  to  live  in 
dignity in their sovereign State. 

But  merely  responding  to  this  appeal  is  not 
enough.  It  is  imperative  that  negotiations  between  the 
two  parties  start  again  as  soon  as  possible.  Only 
negotiations  will  allow  tackling  the  root  causes  of  the 
Israeli-Palestinian  conflict.  The  parameters  for  a 
settlement  have  been  known  for  a  long  time.  I  fully 
support the proposal made yesterday by the Quartet for 
a  strict  timetable:  one  month  to  agree  on  the  agenda 
and modalities of the negotiations, and no more than a 
year to reach a comprehensive agreement.  
2 

11-51378 
new 
to  make 


I  appeal  to  the  parties  to  show  proof  of  their 

political  will  and  ability 
the  necessary 
compromises and sacrifices so that by the end of 2012 
peace  in  the  Middle  East  finally  becomes  a  reality. 
From this rostrum, I reiterate firmly that the restart of 
negotiations  cannot  again  stumble  over  cement  and 
stones,  and  I  dare  believe  that  the  Israeli  Government 
knows that. In their efforts both now and in the future, 
the  parties  can  count  on  the  nations  of  the  European 
Union, including my country, Luxembourg. 

The events over the past year in North Africa, the 
Middle  East  and  sub-Saharan Africa  remind  us  of  the 
importance of a United Nations Organization with solid 
means for prevention and mediation, for peacekeeping 
and  peacebuilding.  Conflict  prevention  is  one  of  the 
principal  obligations  set  out  in  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations. Primary responsibility for that belongs 
to  Member  States,  but  no  State  can  act  alone.  Each 
must be able to count on the support of the rest.  

At the 2005 World Summit, we all committed to 
promoting a culture of prevention, and we put in place 
important 
and  mechanisms.  The 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  by  uniting  all  concerned 
actors  and  formulating  integrated  strategies,  is  an 
essential element of these. 
My country is deeply convinced of the relevance 

of  a  broad  and  multidimensional  approach 
to 
peacebuilding.  Luxembourg  is  proud  to  be  an  active 
contributor 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission,  notably  as  Chair  of  the  country-specific 
configuration for Guinea established this February. Our 
priority is to support the authorities in Conakry in the 
areas of national reconciliation, security sector reform 
and  employment  for  women  and  young  people.  Since 
2010  Luxembourg,  in  its  national  capacity,  has  been 
supporting  mediation  conducted  by  the  Community  of 
Sant’Egidio  between  the  main  political  and  civil 
society actors in Guinea. 

Both at the bilateral level and in its capacity as a 
member  of  the  European  Union,  Luxembourg  sees 
conflict  prevention  and  providing  support  in  post-
conflict  situations  as  being  at  the  heart  of  its  activity 
abroad,  primarily  through  multilateral  instruments, 
with  the  United  Nations,  naturally,  first  and  foremost 
among them. The challenges we face are not limited to 
political  conflicts  but  also  concern  economic,  social 
and environmental transformation.  
the  work  of 
tools 
to 
A/66/PV.24
on 
the 
centre 
Conference 
of  Luxembourg’s 

Let us remember that the Arab Spring began with 
an  act  of  social  protest.  We  therefore  agree  entirely 
with  the  priority  that  the  President  intends  to  give 
during  his  mandate 
to  sustainable  development, 
poverty eradication and achievement of the Millennium 
Development Goals. 

With  our  European  Union  partners,  we  will  do 
everything in our power to contribute ensuring that the 
United  Nations 
Sustainable 
Development (Rio+20), which will take place in Brazil 
less  than  a  year  from  now,  in  June  2012,  is  truly 
successful. Rio+20 must set a range of ambitious goals 
that will ensure that we stay on track with sustainable 
development and preserve future generations’ ability to 
live on our planet.  

Sustainable development, in its three elements — 
economic,  social  and  environmental  —  has  long  been 
at 
development 
cooperation policy. I am happy to say that Luxembourg 
has  managed  to  maintain  and  even  increase  its  efforts 
in  terms  of  official  development  assistance,  which  in 
2010  reached  1.09  per  cent  of  our  gross  national 
product. 

We  no  longer  need  to  prove  the  close  link 
between  security  and  development.  For  Luxembourg, 
the  links  between  security  and  climate  change  are 
equally  obvious.  As  the  Secretary-General  observed, 
climate  change  must  be  seen  as  a  threat  multiplier. 
Luxembourg’s  commitment 
to  combating  climate 
change, including through the Group of Friends created 
here in New York for that  purpose, is  also part of our 
strategy for preventing conflicts before climate change 
makes  them  worse.  In  that  context,  my  country  offers 
support  and 
island 
developing  States,  particularly  those  in  the  Pacific, 
whose existence is threatened by climate change. 

Since the adoption of the Kyoto Protocol in 1997, 
Luxembourg,  together  with  its  European  partners,  has 
made  binding  commitments  to  reduce  its  carbon 
emissions  and  mitigate  the  effects  of  climate  change. 
Luxembourg  is  also  contributing  to  the  fast  start 
finance  initiative  in  order  to  tackle  climate  change.  I 
should  stress 
these  resources  are  new  and 
additional to our official development assistance. 

that 
the  numerous  other  challenges 
require a coordinated and collective response, I should 
like  to  mention  one  in  particular:  the  prevention  and 
control of non-communicable diseases. Non-communicable 
technical  assistance 
to  small 
Among 
that 
11-51378 

3 

A/66/PV.24 

diseases not only cost 36 million human lives every year; 
they also result in significant losses to national revenue 
and  pull  millions  of  people  below  the  poverty  line. 
They  affect  all  of  us  and  are  having  an  increasingly 
preponderant  impact  on  developing  countries.  The 
response  to  this  challenge  of  epidemic  proportions 
must be global and universal. 

I therefore commend the initiative on the part of 
the Caribbean Community countries to put this subject 
on  the  General  Assembly’s  agenda  and  to  publicize, 
beyond  the  medical  community,  the  scope  and  impact 
of  the  crisis  in  non-communicable  diseases,  including 
in  development  terms.  There  is  no  question  that  the 
debate in the High-level Meeting on the Prevention and 
Control  of  Non-communicable  Diseases,  the  round 
tables  and  the various side events held in the last few 
days  have  allowed  us  to  reach  that  goal.  We  should 
now  fully  implement  the  commitments  undertaken  in 
the Political Declaration (resolution 66/2, annex). I can 
assure the Assembly that Luxembourg will continue its 
efforts  to  that  end  at  the  national,  regional  and 
international levels. 

Mr.  Allam-mi  (Chad),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

The  terrorist  attacks  of  11  September  2001, 
whose  tenth  anniversary  we  have  just  commemorated, 
were  attacks  against  not  only  the  United  States,  the 
host country of our Organization, but against all of us, 
against  our  values  and  principles,  our  convictions  and 
beliefs.  Our  Organization  itself  has  become  the  target 
of  cowardly  attacks.  Such  despicable  acts  must  not, 
however, lead us to turn inward. On the contrary, they 
should encourage us to redouble efforts to continue to 
act  together  in  furthering  the  ideals  and  values  of  our 
Organization  and  its  Charter,  to  fight  together  against 
terrorism  and  for  a  better  and  safer  future  for 
generations  to  come,  for  development  and  respect  for 
human rights, for democracy and the rule of law. That 
is our joint responsibility: the responsibility to prevent, 
to preserve and to protect. 

its 
stands 
responsibilities and to continue to work for an effective 
multilateralism,  including  —  if  the  Assembly  affords 
us  the  opportunity  —  as  a  non-permanent  member  of 
the Security Council in 2013-2014. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Steven Vanackere,  Deputy 
Luxembourg 
shoulder 
ready 
to 
Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
Institutional Reform of the Kingdom of Belgium. 
Mr. Vanackere (Belgium): Twelve months ago, I 

stood  here  and  insisted  upon  the  importance  of  the 
principle  of  accountability.  This  year  there  is  even 
more  reason  to  underscore  this  core  value  in  national 
and international politics. 

In  several  countries  of  the  Arab  world  —  in 
Tunisia,  Egypt,  Morocco,  Libya,  Syria,  Yemen  and 
elsewhere  —  people  are  transforming  the  outlook  of 
their  societies,  moving  towards  more  accountable 
leadership. 
On  the  African  continent,  in  Côte  d’Ivoire  a 

into 
leader  who  repeatedly  plunged  his  country 
test  of  democratic 
violence  did  not  stand 
legitimacy.  With  parliamentary  elections  scheduled  to 
take place later this year, Côte d’Ivoire is now ready to 
make a fresh start. 

And  in  Europe  the  arrest  of  Ratko  Mladić
confirms  what  leaders  should  know  all  too  well:  that 
war  crimes  will  not  remain  unpunished  for  ever,  that 
this world will not accept impunity. 

The  past  year  has  shown  that,  more  than  ever, 
history  is  on  the  side  of  those  who,  worldwide,  strive 
for  more  accountability.  They  will  find  Belgium  on 
their side. 
all 
legal 

accountability: 
implement 
international treaties and to respect international law. A 
former  Nuremberg  prosecutor,  Benjamin  Ferencz, 
stated,  “There  can  be  no  peace  without  justice,  no 
justice  without  law  and  no  meaningful  law  without  a 
Court to decide what is just and lawful under any given 
circumstance”. 

Some  of  the  examples  I  have  just  mentioned 
illustrate  that  all  too  well.  Ratko  Mladić  is  on  trial  in 
The Hague. Mass atrocities committed in Côte d’Ivoire 
and  Libya  have  been  referred  to  the  International 
Criminal Court. 

From  this  place,  I  would  like  to  launch  a  strong 
appeal  to  those  Member  States  that  have  not  yet  done 
so  to  adhere  to  and  shoulder  the  Rome  Statute,  as  a 
contribution 
accountable 
international legal system. 
But  accountability  is  of  course  much  broader.  It 

also  implies  political  accountability.  Governments, 
Accountability  means 
first 
obligation 
sustainable 
of 
to 
and 
the 
the 
to 
a 
4 

11-51378 


politicians  and  civil  servants  are  accountable  and 
responsible  to  their  citizens,  be  it  through  the  ballot 
box  or 
through  constructive  engagement  with 
representative organizations. 

Let  me  be  frank:  this  is  also  a  challenge  in  the 
continent  I  come  from,  Europe.  We,  as  European 
leaders,  should  not  run  away  from  the  obligation  of 
being  accountable  to  the  people  we  represent.  In  the 
Durban  spirit  of  non-discrimination, 
let  me  add: 
accountable to all the people, regardless of their ethnic 
background,  their  religion  or  belief,  their  gender, 
sexual orientation or social position. 

Worldwide,  the  challenges  are  sometimes  of  a 
different  order.  Let  us  be  clear.  Leaders  who  believe 
that  they  can  cling  to  power  through  terror  and 
suppression make a cruel mistake. Leaders who believe 
that  pointing  guns  at  their  own  people,  that  sending 
death  squads  on  to  the  streets,  that  stoning  women  to 
death  is  acceptable,  have  lost  touch  with  humankind 
and  are  bound  to  lose  all  support,  not  only  from  their 
own people but also from the world. 

Warlords  who  think  that  they  can  get  away  with 
sexual  abuse  of  women  and  recruiting  child  soldiers 
should  be  stopped  and  held  accountable  by  a  united 
and firm international community. 

Belgium will not stand idly by when people claim 
a  future  free  of  coercion  and  terror.  Instead  of 
non-interference, Belgium believes in non-indifference. 
Sovereignty  cannot  be  a  wall  that  leaders  can  use  to 
violate  the  rights  of  their  citizens.  Sovereignty  cannot 
be  used  as  an  excuse 
the 
responsibility to protect their people. 

This is one of the main lessons that I draw from 
recent  events  in  the  Arab  world:  that  democracy  and 
accountability  are  of  a  universal  nature;  that  they 
cannot be claimed, and should not be claimed, by any 
nation or group of nations.  
(spoke in French) 

Take  the  case  of  Libya,  where  the  Security 
Council  was  able  to  prevent  a  massacre  in  Benghazi. 
Belgium  decided,  with  almost  unanimous  support  in 
Parliament,  to  take  part  in  the  military  Operation 
Unified Protector, assuming the risk and the cost.  

That  was  because  Belgium  is  convinced  that  the 
international  community  has  the  responsibility  to  take 
action  when  populations  are  exposed  to  imminent 
to  run  away  from 
A/66/PV.24
include 
the 
continuation 
the  reform  of 
the  security  sector, 
There  are  still  significant  challenges 
danger.  Molière  said  long  ago  that  we  are  responsible 
not only for what we do, but for what we do not do.  

Today,  now  that  the  immediate  danger  is  fading, 
the  international  community  has  a  responsibility  to 
help  in  the  reconstruction  of  Libya.  Let  us  not  forget 
that  that  responsibility  is  an  integral  part  of  the 
responsibility to protect. Belgium will contribute.  

Let  us  look  at  the  rest  of  the African  continent, 
whose  peoples  want  their  voice  to  be  heard  through 
free and fair elections. In that context, I wish to make 
specific  mention  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo,  where,  after  years  of  violence,  undeniable 
progress has been made.  

The important part played by the United Nations, 
and  in  particular  by  the  United  Nations  Organization 
Stabilization  Mission  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the Congo, cannot be ignored.  

to  be 
overcome.  They 
and 
strengthening  of  stabilization  efforts  in  the  east  of 
country, 
the 
establishment  of  the  rule  of  law  and  countering 
impunity and sexual violence.  

the 
essential 
consolidation of democracy. The 2006 elections put the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  on  the  road  to 
democracy.  The  elections  to  be  held  at  the  end  of 
November 
the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  is  ready  once  and  for  all  to 
move on from its bloody past.  

As  an  important  partner  of  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo, my Government is contributing 
financially  to  the  preparations  for  the  elections,  and 
demands that every candidate and every citizen be able 
to  participate  peacefully  and  with  full  respect  for 
democratic rules.  
(spoke in English) 

Let us finally look at the Middle East, a conflict 
region that has this week received much attention here 
in the Hall. Dag Hammarskjöld, to whom this week is 
dedicated and who himself devoted much of his effort 
to finding a lasting peace in that region, said more than 
half  a  century  ago:  “The  building  of  a  firm  bridge  … 
over  which  you  can  pass  without  any  difficulties  may 
be a long story”. More than 50 years later, we still do 
not have such a “firm bridge”. That is not acceptable.  
should  confirm 
ingredients 
that 
Those 
are 
in 
11-51378 

5 

A/66/PV.24 


The parameters of a sustainable solution are well 
known.  Both  the  Palestinian  and  Israeli  peoples  have 
legitimate  aspirations.  People  want  statehood.  People 
want  to  live  in  peace  and  security.  These  were  the 
messages  that  President  Abbas  and  Prime  Minister 
Netanyahu brought us yesterday. It must be possible to 
satisfy both legitimate needs. 

Over  the  past  few  months,  the  European  Union 
and  its  High  Representative  have  spared  no  effort  to 
get  a  process  of  negotiations  started.  There  is  no 
alternative to negotiations, however difficult and risky 
the  path  may  be.  It  is  therefore  my  sincere  hope  that 
the  steps  proposed  by  the  Quartet  yesterday  will  be 
fully implemented. 

It  is  also  clear  that  the  Palestinian Authority  has 
successfully  progressed  on  the  road  to  statehood,  also 
thanks to the important and sustained contributions by 
the  European  Union  and  by  Belgium,  and  that  it  has 
now reached a level of statehood that the world cannot 
ignore. 

Now is the time to show leadership. After all, that 
is what accountability towards the people of the region 
is all about. 

Many  have  said  it  before:  the  global  challenges 
we  face  are  multiple.  They  range  from  terrorism  to 
climate  change  and  sustainable  development  —  in 
which regard the upcoming United Nations Conference 
on  Sustainable  Development  will  ask  a  lot  of  our 
energy  and  creativity  in  the  months  ahead;  from 
financial turmoil to terrible humanitarian tragedies like 
the  one  in  the  Horn  of  Africa;  from  banning  cluster 
munitions  to  curbing  nuclear  proliferation,  notably  in 
North  Korea  and 
the 
responsible  and  transparent  exploitation  of  natural 
resources  through  schemes  such  as  the  Kimberley 
Process;  through  to  fully  implementing  the  indicators 
of  the  landmark  Security  Council  resolution  1325 
(2000) on women, peace and security. 
For  Belgium,  the  only  way  to  address  those 

challenges  is  through  a  multilateral  approach.  No 
country,  however  big  or  important,  is  capable  of 
tackling global challenges alone. No country, however 
modest in size it may be, should think that it cannot be 
part of the solution. 

Multilateralism is not about blocking solutions. It 
should lead to change, and should have at its centre the 
United  Nations,  which  indeed  has  proved  its  added 
from  guaranteeing 
Iran; 
value in so many fields. Let me mention just one such 
field to which Belgium attaches particular importance: 
international conflict mediation. 

When  the  Secretary-General  addressed  us  earlier 
this week he mentioned Guinea, Kenya and Kyrgyzstan 
as  United  Nations  mediation  successes.  The  list  is 
undoubtedly  longer,  but  so  are  the  needs.  I  am 
therefore  grateful  to  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  for  choosing  mediation  as  a  central  theme 
for  our  debate.  I  strongly  believe  that  the  United 
Nations  should  continue  to  invest  in  strengthening  its 
mediation capacities. 

I am proud to announce that Belgium has decided 
to  financially  support  the  United  Nations  Mediation 
Support Unit and to actively engage with the President 
and  with  other  Governments  and  non-governmental 
stakeholders  to  strengthen  the  role  of  United  Nations 
mediation efforts. 
Some  say  that  the  United  Nations  is  losing  its 

power as a global platform for discussion and decision-
making.  Some  say  that  global  trends  point  towards  a 
more  fragmented  structure  of  global  governance.  I  do 
not  think  that  that  is  true.  I  would  certainly  not  think 
that it was desirable. 
Belgium  remains  a  staunch  supporter  of  the 

in 
the 
United  Nations.  Our  current  engagement 
for  a 
Peacebuilding  Commission  and  our  bid 
non-permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council  for  the 
period 2019-2020 show our willingness to play our role 
in the United Nations. 

Today  I  am  also  proud  to  introduce  Belgium’s 
candidacy for the Human Rights Council for the period 
2015-2018,  to  add  our  voice  to  those  who  fight 
impunity  and  discrimination;  to  give  a  voice  to  those 
men,  women  and  children  who  worldwide  see  their 
rights  curtailed; 
the  principle  of  non-
indifference  into  a  living  reality.  That  is  not  for  the 
sake of ourselves, but for the sake of those to whom we 
are accountable. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sam  Terrence  Condor, 
Deputy  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of Saint Kitts and Nevis. 
Mr.  Condor  (Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis):  I  wish,  on 

behalf of the Government and people of Saint Kitts and 
Nevis, to express gratitude for the honour of addressing 
the  General  Assembly.  I  also  extend  on  their  behalf 
turn 
to 
6 

11-51378 
Most  delegations 
recently  participated, 


sincere  congratulations 
to  Mr.  Nassir  Abdul-Aziz 
Al-Nasser  on  his  election  to  preside  over  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-sixth session. My delegation also 
wishes  to  thank  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss,  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session,  for  his 
leadership during a very busy and demanding session. 

Our new President’s tenure coincides with a time 
when  there  is  on  the Assembly’s  agenda  a  confluence 
of global issues with particular relevance for the small 
island developing States of the Caribbean. 
for 

example, in the United Nations High-level Meeting on 
HIV/AIDS,  held  in  June;  the  United  Nations  High-
level  Meeting  on  Youth,  held  in  July;  and  the  United 
Nations  High-level  Meeting  on  Non-communicable 
Diseases, held a few days ago. The convening of those 
meetings  gives  ample  acknowledgement  of 
the 
challenges that we still face in our relentless pursuit of 
a healthier world, and of the pivotal role of health and 
social  cohesion  as  vehicles  of  national  and  global 
development. 

The  President  has  the  awesome  responsibility  of 
piloting  us  through  follow-up  actions  resulting  from 
those weighty deliberations. My delegation is confident 
of  his  capacity  and  experience  for 
the  required 
leadership, and assures him of our fullest support. 
The  President  has  declared  as  his  theme  for  the 

session  “The  role  of  mediation  in  the  settlement  of 
disputes by peaceful means”. Certainly, my delegation 
supports  the  pacific  settlement  of  disputes,  and  we 
likewise acknowledge mediation as a preferred vehicle 
in preventing or settling conflicts. 

In  this  endeavour,  our  small  island  Caribbean 
States  would  wish  to  be  engaged  in  the  support 
mechanisms in tangible ways, such as are already laid 
out  in  the  provisions  of  such  landmark  resolutions  as 
Security  Council 
(2004),  which 
addresses  the  non-proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass 
destruction. 

The  people  of  my  country  and  my  region  have 
great respect for the idealism that gave birth to this all-
important  Organization.  Our 
indeed 
synonymous  with those of the United  Nations system, 
and our expectations are assuredly no less stately than 
those of large and powerful nations. 
At  a  time  such  as  this,  the  United  Nations  must 

show  its  unifying  character  by  assuring  that  all 
resolution  1540 
ideals  are 
A/66/PV.24
is 
invariably 
is  required 
integrated  approach 
Member  States  are  equipped  to  play  a  role  in  the 
maintenance of international peace and security and in 
the  building  up  of  one  another.  We  are  our  brother’s 
keeper. 

In  today’s  global  community,  we  must  rely 
heavily on collective actions and solid partnerships, if 
we are to overcome the many common challenges that 
we face. Among those challenges are the misguided or 
ill-considered  choices  that  are  made  by  too  many  of 
our youth. 
A  critical  and  defining  aspect  of  my  country’s 

future,  and  indeed  a  prospect  that  will  largely  define 
tomorrow’s world, is our youth. It is therefore worthy 
of  mention  that  youth  violence  has  attained  epidemic 
proportions in the Caribbean. We appreciate that youth 
violence 
symptomatic  of  deeper 
individual,  community  and  societal  issues,  and  that  a 
multisectoral, 
to 
redress the problem. 
At  the  national  and  regional  levels,  States  of  the 

Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM)  are  actively 
grappling  with  this  challenge,  and  we  are  pleased  to 
have participated in the discussions on this topic at the 
recent  High-level  Meeting.  There  is  a  need,  however, 
to  reinforce  the  fact  that  there  is  a  role  for  United 
Nations  agencies  in  supporting  our  efforts  to  reverse 
the  bothersome  trend  of  youth  violence,  with  all  its 
implications  for  many  critical  sectors, 
including 
security, health and development. 

Accordingly,  we  shall  be  heightening  our 
engagement  with  WHO,  UN-HABITAT,  UNICEF  and 
other 
international 
relevant  United  Nations  and 
development agencies in this endeavour. 

The challenge of youth violence is also linked, to 
some  extent,  to  the  proliferation  of  small  arms  and 
light  weapons.  While  my  country  acknowledges  the 
strides  made  in  our  region  with  respect  to  small  arms 
and  light  weapons,  through  the  recent  adoption  of  the 
CARICOM  Declaration  on  Small  Arms  and  Light 
Weapons,  there  is  still  a  long  way  to  go.  It  is 
imperative, therefore, that we work together to bring a 
solution-focused  approach  to  the  problem  of  easy 
access  to  small  arms  and  light  weapons  in  our 
countries.  CARICOM  here  calls  for  an  arms  trade 
treaty. 

Related  to  this  challenge  is  the  issue  of  human 
security and development. My country is committed to 
11-51378 

7 

to 
support 
in  keeping  with 
countries 
achieve 
A/66/PV.24 

working  diligently  at  the  national  and  regional  levels, 
and  to  collaborating  internationally,  to  improve  the 
lives of our people. 

Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  is  a  relatively  small 
country, and it is usually the small and vulnerable that 
are  most  severely  impacted  when  global  shocks  and 
crises  occur.  That  is  why,  as  a  region,  we  promote 
collective  action  to  enhance  our  resilience,  promote 
human  security,  lessen  our  vulnerability  and  build 
stronger economies. 
Such has been our widely acclaimed best-practice 

approach  with  regard  to  HIV/AIDS.  Saint  Kitts  and 
Nevis  applauds  the  General  Assembly  for  convening 
the  High-level  Meeting  on  HIV/AIDS.  The  Joint 
United  Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS  (UNAIDS) 
has  collaborated  with  the  Pan  Caribbean  Partnership 
its 
Against  HIV  and  AIDS, 
commitment 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  also  in  ensuring 
that  HIV  prevention,  care,  treatment  and  support 
services are provided to all in need. 

The agenda is still a full one and the challenge no 
less daunting than it was 10 years ago, in a region with 
the  second  highest  global  prevalence  rate  of  HIV.  We 
therefore  anticipate  and  encourage 
the  continued 
support of UNAIDS and other health and development 
agencies. 

to  non-communicable  diseases 
With 
(NCDs),  the  Caribbean  can  be  justly  proud  that  the 
initiatives in the Port of Spain Declaration of 2007 — 
“Uniting  to  Stop  the  Epidemic  of  Chronic  NCDs”  — 
which arose out of the first-ever heads of Government 
summit on the subject, has resonated across the globe, 
resulting in the just concluded High-level Meeting with 
a  consensus  on  launching  an  international  wellness 
revolution. 

Non-communicable diseases are to a large extent 
preventable.  It  is  therefore  essential  that  the  outcome 
document  from  the  High-level  Meeting  mirrors  many 
of the chief concerns of the Port of Spain Declaration, 
aimed  at  encouraging  Governments  and  the  private 
sector 
increasing  avenues  for 
exercise,  healthy  diets  and  smoke-free  zones  for  the 
benefit of the general public. 

A  long-term  reduction  in  the  enormous  costs  of 
treating  heart  failure,  diabetes  and  hypertension,  and 
the resulting 60 per cent to 70 per cent mortality rates 
to  collaborate  on 
regard 
in 
resources,  health  and  HIV/AIDS 
from  NCDs,  is  worth  the  investment  in  protecting 
human  capital  and  the  development  of  our  various 
regions. 

I  am  extremely  proud  that  the  Government  of 
Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  has  the  lead  responsibility  for 
the 
human 
Caribbean  Community,  and  continues 
to  play  a 
pioneering role. 

We  recognize  the  urgent  need  to  make  good  on 
pledges  resulting  from  the  High-level  Meeting,  which 
can  only  augur  well  for  a  future  in  which  due 
recognition  must  be  given  to  the  role  of  health  in 
overall development. 

It  would  be  remiss  of  me  not  to  highlight  the 
significance  of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable Development. Next June, during this sixty-
sixth session of the General Assembly, all eyes will be 
the  Rio  deliberations  aimed  at  achieving 
on 
convergence  on 
social,  environmental  and 
economic  dimensions  of  sustainable  development.  I 
fully  support  the  main  objective  of  the  Conference, 
namely,  securing  political  commitment.  That  is  the 
critical  factor  for  success  throughout  the  Rio+20 
processes and beyond. 

Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  is  one  of  the  small  island 
developing  States  (SIDS)  referred  to  in  chapter  17  of 
Agenda  21.  Throughout 
the 
international  community  has  made  tremendous  strides 
in 
sustainable 
development.  Regrettably,  many  an  encouraging  step 
forward has been offset by painful setbacks. 

The effect of climate change is a bane that is felt 
on  a  daily  basis  in  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis,  as  in  other 
islands. The question is no longer “if” and “how”, but 
rather “when” and “by how much” we will be affected. 
We need desperately to upgrade pre-emptive measures, 
to counter the imminent threat of climate change. 

to  aggressively  promote 
climate  financing  is  highly  recommended.  It  will  be 
vital  if  our  countries  are  to  successfully  address  the 
effects of  climate change  without tapping into already 
limited  and  depleted 
resources.  My  delegation 
encourages other Member States to join the call for the 
full implementation of climate financing. 

In  addition  to  pursuing  outcomes  that  benefit  all 
States,  my  delegation  would  like  to  highlight  certain 
challenges  that  some  members  of  the  international 
the  past  20  years, 
A  defined  strategy 
addressing  SIDS 
challenges 
the 
to 
8 

11-51378 


community face, with which the General Assembly can 
assist. I speak of Haiti, Antigua and Barbuda, Cuba and 
Taiwan. 

We  must  ever  remember  Haiti,  one  of  the  most 
populous  member  States  of  CARICOM.  We  should 
remain  acutely  aware  of  Haiti’s  trials  and  struggles 
against  natural  and  man-made  catastrophic  events, 
unsettling 
social  and  political  vicissitudes  and 
economic hardships. Their effects have set Haiti many 
years  behind,  compared  to  the  rate  of  development  of 
other nations in the region. We therefore encourage the 
fulfilling of the many goodwill pledges that have been 
made for assistance in its reconstruction efforts. 

Another  CARICOM  member  State,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  continues  to  be  locked  in  an  underdog 
struggle  to  benefit  from  its  success  before  the  World 
Trade Organization Dispute Settlement Body. We again 
urge  a  speedy,  fair  and  just  resolution  to  this  gaming 
dispute. 

Also  within  the  Caribbean,  the  people  of  our 
sister nation of Cuba continue to endure much hardship 
as the consequence of a 50-year commercial, economic 
and 
the 
international  community  have  consistently  called  for 
the  lifting  of  the  embargo.  Our  country  reiterates  its 
call,  and  the  call  of  regional  neighbours  and  the 
international  community,  particularly 
the  General 
Assembly, for a speedy redress of this matter. 

Since 2009, Taiwan has been invited by the World 
Health Organization to attend the annual World Health 
Assembly (WHA) as an observer. This practice and the 
related  arrangements  have  established  what  has  been 
termed the WHA model, which sets a useful precedent 
for Taiwan’s greater participation in the United Nations 
system.  It  is  the  view  of  my  country  that  in  today’s 
highly  integrated  and  interconnected  world  almost  all 
issues  demand  full  participation  by,  and  cooperation 
among,  international  partners.  As  one  of  the  world’s 
leading  economic  and 
technological  powerhouses, 
Taiwan can contribute substantially to the international 
community. 
We  therefore  urge  the  United  Nations  to  find  a 

for  Taiwan’s  meaningful 
suitable  way 
participation 
and 
mechanisms, including the International Civil Aviation 
Organization  and 
the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change. 
financial  embargo.  The  Assembly  and 
to  allow 
in 
specialized 
agencies 
its 
A/66/PV.24

I  have  presented  some  of  the  challenges  that  we 
encounter as a country and region, challenges to which 
the Assembly has itself given prominence. I have also 
given  consideration  to  some  of  our  aspirations  for  the 
sixty-sixth  session  and  beyond.  They  are  issues  that 
demand collective inputs and interventions. 

We  are  all  part  of  the  global  community,  and 
problems  that  permeate  our  tightly  woven  fabric 
invariably  spread  to  affect  us  all  in  some  way  or 
another.  It  is  incumbent  upon  us  all,  therefore,  to 
ensure  that  the  results  of  our  collective  enterprise  and 
diligence allow for the realization of our desired goals. 
Surely,  working  together  with  purpose  and  integrity 
will  ensure  that  we  rise  on  the  same  tide.  Let  us  rise 
together. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

call on His Excellency Mr. Franco Frattini, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Italy. 
Mr. Frattini (Italy): Italy has a long tradition of 

mediation that has shaped our history and our approach 
to  international  affairs.  In  the  celebrations  of  the 
150th anniversary  of  Italian  unification  this  year,  we 
commemorated  the  vision  of  the  founding  fathers  of 
our  nation  and  the  sacrifices  of  so  many  patriots.  We 
also recalled the role of mediation in bridging the gap 
between  the  aspirations  for  independence  and  the 
reality of foreign occupation.  

A century or so after unification, our vocation for 
mediation was fulfilled when we were among the first 
countries 
the  process  of  European 
pacification. We helped restore peace and prosperity to 
a  war-torn  continent  by  engaging  Governments  in 
dialogue rather than disputes. 

Our attitude to mediation is inspired by both our 
history  and  our  geography.  Our  territory  is  located 
right at the centre of the Mediterranean Sea, making us 
keenly  aware  that  our  security  is  not  independent  of 
that of the region surrounding us. 

For  decades,  Italy  has  emphasized  the  need  to 
bridge  the  economic  and  social  gap  between  the 
conditions of the northern shores of the Mediterranean 
and  the  expectations  of  our  neighbours  to  the  south. 
Despite 
the 
aspirations  for civil and political  rights  of the peoples 
of North Africa and the Middle East, peoples so close 
to us geographically but far apart in terms of the rights 
enjoyed by our citizens.  
this  vision,  we 
to  overlook 
launch 
tended 
to 
11-51378 

9 

is  no  alternative 
A/66/PV.24 


On  the  face  of  it,  the  approach  favoured  by 
European and the other Western countries — including 
the  United  States  —  was  to  forge  partnerships  with 
undemocratic regimes and place a priority on security, 
counter-terrorism cooperation and migration policy. We 
made a mistake. 

The Arab  Spring  was  a  wake-up  call,  reminding 
us  that  no  political  leader  can  maintain  power  at  the 
expense  of  his  or  her  own  people.  It  confirmed  the 
principle that there can be no mediation or compromise 
where  fundamental  rights  are  concerned.  And 
it 
showed  that  cooperation  for  the  sake  of  security  and 
stability 
to  promoting  freedom, 
economic and democratic growth and job creation. 

Our response to the uprisings was consistent with 
our values. We called for dialogue and deplored the use 
of  force  against  civilians.  That  was  not  enough  in 
Libya,  however,  where  the  regime  had  vowed  to 
slaughter its own civilians. The only way to prevent a 
massacre  was  for  the  international  community  to 
invoke the principle of the responsibility to protect. 

By helping to implement that decision in military, 
diplomatic  and  humanitarian  terms,  we  shifted  from  a 
culture  of  sovereign  impunity  to  one  of  responsible 
sovereignty,  rooted 
international 
accountability for the most serious violations of human 
rights.  At  the  same  time,  we  supported  international 
sanctions against the Syrian leadership. 

The  uprisings  in  North Africa  and  in  the  Middle 
East  send  a  message  that  the  United  Nations  can  do 
more  and  do  better.  Let  me  be  very  clear.  We  do  not 
want less United Nations involvement; we want more. 
Libya  can  be  the  first  test  case  for  a  more  prominent 
United Nations role.  

The  United  Nations  is  called  upon  to  coordinate 
and  lead  the  international  community’s  assistance  to 
that  country.  The  international  community  should 
maintain  cohesion  and  unity  of  purpose,  avoid  a 
fragmented response and resist engaging in a first-past-
the-post 
logic.  There  should  be  no  competition, 
because there is only one winner: the Libyan people.  

The  United  Nations  should  therefore  chair  the 
international  coordination  mechanisms,  with 
the 
support of the relevant regional organizations, such as 
the  League  of Arab  States,  the African  Union  and  the 
European  Union  (EU).  At  this  juncture  we  need  to 
in  national  and 
the 
Israelis 
and 
stand-off  between 
prevent  resentment  and  extremism  from  gaining 
ground.  

We are ready to build respectful new partnerships 
without  imposing  pre-packaged  models.  That  is  why 
we  have  promoted  the  idea  of  a  new  Mediterranean 
plan  for  growth  and  development.  And  we  have 
proposed  a  permanent  conference  on  security  and 
cooperation,  with  the  goal  of  building  an  inclusive 
dialogue  among  equals  on  political,  economic  and 
cultural  issues.  If  we  fail  to  respond,  and  if  the Arab 
Spring does not produce results soon, we will all have 
a heavy price to pay. 
Never  has  mediation  been  more  necessary  in  the 

tense 
the 
Palestinians. Confrontation has led nowhere. The time 
has  come  to  defuse  this  long-standing  and  disruptive 
conflict  through  recourse  to  dialogue  and  the  building 
of mutual trust. We continue to strongly back American 
efforts,  and  we  welcome  the  Quartet’s  new  effort  to 
gather the necessary support to restart the negotiations 
between the parties towards the creation, very soon, of 
a strong and safe Palestinian State.  
Within  the  European  Union,  which  has  to  speak 

with  one  voice,  Italy  is  also  ready  to  exercise  more 
leadership and political vision in relaunching the peace 
process.  
In  Lebanon,  Italy  is  playing  a  prominent  role  in 

mediation. The Italian contingent in the United Nations 
Interim  Force  in  Lebanon  was  awarded  the  United 
Nations peace medal for its contribution to maintaining 
peace  and  stability  in  the  country.  This  prize  honours 
the  achievements  of  our  soldiers  in  Lebanon,  but  also 
the  commitment  of 
to 
peacekeeping.  

Italy  is  the  sixth  top  contributor  to  the  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations  budget  and,  since 
2006,  the  top  EU  and  Western  European  and  Others 
Group contributor of troops to the United Nations. 

In Africa  far  too  many people  are still  grappling 
with the serious problems caused by regional conflicts. 
Those  conflicts  undermine  stability  and  prosperity  for 
millions  of  people,  spreading  the  poisonous  seed  of 
terrorism and piracy.  

the  Comprehensive  Peace 
As  a  witness 
Agreement  (CPA)  between  North  and  South  Sudan, 
Italy  welcomed 
implementation, 
which  has  led  to  the  birth  of  the  new  State  of  South 
Italian  Government 
the  Agreement’s 
the 
to 
10 

11-51378 
starvation 
and 
to 
humanitarian 
the  sponsors  of 
in  conflict  prevention, 
its  structure  and  practices 


Sudan.  This  achievement  should  be  an  incentive  to 
settle the post-CPA arrangements without further delay. 

In  the  Horn  of  Africa,  Italy  has  a  traditional 
commitment  to  contributing  to  peace,  security  and 
development. In the past few months, we have financed 
projects  in  many  sectors:  health,  education,  nutrition, 
training,  governance  support,  peace  and  security.  But 
our  assistance  is  not  enough.  In  Somalia  people  are 
facing 
disaster. 
International  support  must  be  stepped  up  to  deliver 
basic  services  to  the  population  and  foster  political 
reconciliation. 
The  United  Nations  collective  security  system  is 

adapting 
the  new 
challenges  by  making  good  and  flexible  use  of  its 
fundamental,  cost-effective  tools.  Mediation  is  one  of 
them.  We  are  among 
the  draft 
resolution on strengthening the role of mediation in the 
peaceful settlement of disputes. 
We  also  encourage  the  United  Nations  to  play  a 

more  significant  role 
the 
settlement  of  disputes  and  peacebuilding  efforts.  To 
that  end,  we  rely  on  the  impartiality  and  authority  of 
the  Secretary-General.  We  commend  him  for  his 
leadership in crisis management, and encourage him in 
this  noble  endeavour  and  in  his  commitment  to 
budgetary discipline. 

We  also  commend  all  the  efforts  to  promote  a 
strong solution to the reform of the Security Council, a 
reform  inspired  by  the  United  Nations  core  principles 
of democracy, accountability, consensus and flexibility — a 
reform  that  will  gather  the  widest  majority  and  with 
which each and every Member State can identify. 

Our humanistic heritage defines the human being 
as  the  measure  of  all  things.  The  principle  of  placing 
people  first  underpins  our  active  support  for  United 
Nations  campaigns  on  fundamental  issues  such  as  the 
abolition  of  the  death  penalty,  the  protection  of  the 
freedom  of  religion  or  belief  and  the  ending  of  the 
practice  of  female  genital  mutilation.  The  people-first 
approach  also  entails  mediation  between  the  pressing 
need  for  modernization  and  the  goal  of  improving 
individual quality of life.  

We need to enhance food security by tackling the 
crucial  links  between  speculation,  inflation  of  food 
prices, and instability. We can count on the new bodies 
created  in  the  framework  of  the  Food  and Agriculture 
A/66/PV.24
Organization  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  Rome-
based  United  Nations  agencies  to  reduce  food  price 
volatility  and  its  very  negative  impact  on  the  most 
vulnerable people. 

We also pay close attention to urban development 
and  environmental  sustainability,  promoting  important 
international  events  such  as  the  World  Urban  Forum, 
which  will  be  held  next  year  in  Italy,  and  a  world 
conference on the topic of the inter-ethnic city. 

In  conclusion,  Italy  wants  to  place  the  rights  of 
human  beings,  and  the  environment  in  which  we  live, 
at  the  centre  of  society.  True  to  this  principle,  Italy 
wants 
to  help  create  and  consolidate  a  modern 
humanism.  There  could  be  no  better  defence  against 
the hatred and criminal intolerance that struck this city, 
this country and the world 10 years ago. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

call on Her Excellency Ms. Trinidad Jiménez, Minister 
for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of the Kingdom of 
Spain. 
Ms. Jiménez (Spain) (spoke in Spanish): I begin 

by  congratulating  the  President  on  his  election  to 
preside over this principal organ in which we all strive 
to achieve the purposes of the United Nations. 

I  also  wish  the  Secretary-General,  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon, the greatest possible success in carrying out 
his  mission  of  promoting  peace  and  progress  around 
the  world  with 
the  same  effectiveness  as  he 
demonstrated throughout his first mandate. 
I also warmly congratulate the representatives of 

the  new  State  of  South  Sudan,  which  has  joined  the 
United Nations family during the current session. 

The economic and financial crisis continues to be 
a  cause  of  serious  concern  for  the  entire  world;  its 
consequences  are  seen  in  many  different  fields.  The 
capacity of the international community to take action 
to address any type of crisis, and to do  so in a timely 
manner,  is  limited.  This  restrains  the  fight  against 
poverty  and  puts  at  risk 
implementation  of 
sustainable  development  policies,  which  are  needed 
now more than ever. 

Spain, together with its European Union partners, 
is taking difficult decisions in order to tackle the crisis. 
However, beyond the actions taken at the regional and 
national 
to  undertake  a 
is  essential 
levels, 
the 
it 
11-51378 

11 

A/66/PV.24 

coordinated  global  response.  The  United  Nations 
system is an important part of the solution to the crisis. 

Women’s  equality  is  a  fundamental  human  right, 
based  upon  the  concept  of  equality  among  all  human 
beings.  Advancing  women’s  full  and  equal  access  to 
the labour market, as well as to the political and social 
world, is not only ethically imperative, but an essential 
measure to overcome the crisis. 

Since 1 January, the United Nations has been able 
to  count  on  an  instrument  to  assist  Member  States  to 
achieve that  goal: UN-Women. Its Executive Director, 
Ms.  Michelle  Bachelet,  will  boost  this  effort.  I  assure 
her of Spain’s full support. We will be at the side of all 
women who fight for freedom and equality. 
Over  the  past  few  months  we  have  witnessed 

episodes  of  rebellion  in  which  peoples  have  fought 
against  the  tyranny  of  rulers  who  denied  basic  human 
rights,  as  well  as  the  dignity  and  value  of  human 
beings,  preventing  people  from  participating  in  their 
countries’  political  life  and  from  making  use  of  their 
resources and opportunities. 

the  popular 
movements  in  Tunisia  and  Egypt  and  we  join  the 
efforts  of  the  international  community  to  support  and 
strengthen  the  political  transition  processes  in  both 
countries, led by their own peoples. 

The  Libyan  people  will  also  be  able  to  enjoy 
freedom  and  live  in  democracy  after  decades  of 
dictatorship and months of conflict. We have welcomed 
the  Libyan  representatives  in  the  General  Assembly, 
with  the  satisfaction  of  knowing  that  the  United 
Nations,  by  implementing  its  principles,  has  remained 
at the side of the Libyan people. 
We  now  have  the  obligation  to  continue  to  help 

the  Libyan  people 
and 
reconstruction  processes.  We  are  ready  to  do  so,  and 
we will do it under the guidance of the United Nations, 
following the pace set by the Libyans themselves. 
community 

continues 
the  brutal 
repression  of  civilian  demonstrators  by  the  Syrian 
authorities. I firmly condemn those actions once again, 
and reiterate  the need for the international community 
to take measures to stop the repression. 

The  Tunisian,  Egyptian  and  Libyan  revolutions, 
the  Syrian  uprising  and  the  acceleration  of  the  reform 
international 
indignation 
to  witness  with 
the  success  of 
We  celebrate 
Unfortunately, 
in 
the 
reconciliation 
the 
processes  in  Morocco  and  Jordan  are  part  of  a 
profound  transformation  of  the  Arab  world,  with 
significant  consequences  for  the  region  and  for  the 
international  community  as  a  whole.  The  legitimate 
aspiration  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  enjoy  freedom 
cannot be left out of this wave of change. 

The  Arab-Israeli  conflict  has  been  with  the 
United  Nations  almost  since 
the  Organization’s 
founding. This session may be remembered as the one 
in  which  the  General  Assembly  granted  Palestine  the 
status  of  observer  State.  Spain  could  support  such  a 
decision, for a number of reasons. 

First, the international community recognizes that 
a solution to the Palestinian-Israeli conflict requires the 
existence  of  two  States,  Israeli  and  Palestinian,  living 
side by side in peace and security. 

Secondly, after more than 60 years of conflict, the 
international  community  should  send  a  clear  signal  to 
the  Palestinians  underlining  that  its  commitment  in 
favour  of  the  creation  of  the  Palestinian  State  is  deep 
and unambiguous. 

Thirdly,  in  the  year  in  which  the  Arab  Spring 
changed realities in the Arab world — and, indeed, in 
the  world  at  large  —  the  just,  legitimate  and  long-
standing aspiration of the Palestinians to live in dignity 
in  their  own  State,  free  from  occupation  and  its 
accompanying  suffering,  deserves  a  clear  response 
from  the  international  community,  a  response  that  can 
no longer be postponed. 

This  new  step  could  be  conceived  as  a  stage 
towards 
legitimate  objective  of  Palestine’s 
becoming  a  Member  State  of  the  United  Nations  with 
full rights. 
Effective, sustainable peace can only be achieved 

through  negotiations  between 
the  parties.  Spain 
believes  that  the  Palestinians  could  find  in  this  new 
status  a  stimulus  for 
the  prompt  resumption  of 
negotiations.  Precisely  because  that  is  the  shared  goal 
of the parties and the international  community, such  a 
situation  should  not  be  used  for  actions  incompatible 
with  the  spirit  of  negotiations.  Israel  should  also 
contribute  to  this  spirit  by  refraining  from  measures 
that prejudge the final status. 

its 
is  coordinating 
European  Union partners.  I am grateful  for the  efforts 
of  the  High  Representative,  Catherine  Ashton,  to 
reactivate  the  negotiations,  in  a  way  acceptable  to  all 
its  position  with 
Spain 
the 
12 

11-51378 
On 
the  other  hand, 


European Union member States, and the declaration of 
the Quartet, which Spain assesses very positively. 

Spain’s  engagement  with  the  Palestinian  people 
and  their  struggle  against  occupation  is  long-standing 
and  known  to  everyone.  Spain  has  always  given 
political, economic and moral support to the legitimate 
aspirations of the Palestinians. 

the  historical  relations 
between  Spain  and  the  Jewish  people  date  back  many 
centuries.  Spain’s  historical 
identity  cannot  be 
understood without its Arab and Jewish heritage. 

I  wish  to  underscore  Spain’s  commitment  to 
Israel  with  regard  to  the  endeavour  to  create  a 
homeland  for  the  Jewish  people.  Since  its  founding, 
Israel  has  experienced  a  number  of  wars  and  has 
suffered from terrorism against its civilian population. 
For Spain, the security of this young State born out of 
an ancient people is essential.  

The  best  way  to  preserve  that  State  is  through  a 
peace treaty that, among other things, provides for the 
establishment  of  a  Palestinian  State  along  the  1967 
lines,  with  agreed  swaps  and  with  Jerusalem  as  a 
shared capital. The security of Israel and Palestine will 
require  effective  guarantees 
the  future  peace 
agreement,  including  possible  international  participation, 
should the parties request it. 

The  future  peace  agreement  should  look  to  the 
future, turning its back on the painful years of conflict. 
Therefore,  Israel  and  Palestine  have  to  be  certain  that 
claims  originating  from  the  conflict  will  be  overcome 
with their signature of the peace agreement. 

In addition, the solution to the painful tragedy of 
the  Palestinian  refugees  must  be  a  just  one  agreed  by 
all 
the 
preservation  of 
Israel’s  current  character.  The 
Palestinian  State  will  be,  in  this  regard  as  well,  a  key 
element for the final resolution of the conflict. 
Some  voices  have  raised  concerns  that  the  new 

democracies  may  be  home  to  political  groups  with 
radical  or  extremist  ideologies.  Democracy  is  an  open 
and fair system of political participation that must also 
be able to defend itself against possible threats. 

Fortunately,  we  can  count  on  instruments  that 
may  contribute  to  preventing  such  situations.  The 
United  Nations  Alliance  of  Civilizations,  which 
promotes  intercultural  dialogue  and  cooperation,  is  a 
the  parties  concerned,  while  allowing 
in 
A/66/PV.24
for 
developed  within 
the 
clear  example.  The  Regional  Strategy 
Mediterranean, 
the  Alliance 
framework,  may  help,  through  youth  programmes  and 
campaigns  to  raise  awareness,  to  diffuse  democratic 
values  and  respect  for  human  rights,  always 
in 
coexistence with those of local cultures. 

We  have  to  prevent  Al-Qaida’s  terrorism  from 
being reinforced in the Sahel region through the release 
of uncontrolled weapons. The international community 
must  be  united  in  the  fight  against  this  curse  that 
represents  a  scourge  to  countries  such  as Afghanistan 
and  Pakistan,  in  the  same  irrational  and  cruel  way  as 
that  in  which  it  struck  New  York,  Bali,  Madrid, 
London, Mumbai, Moscow and many other places over 
the past decade.  

The  United  Nations  itself  recently  suffered  the 
consequences  of  a  terrible  terrorist  attack  in  Abuja, 
adding  to  those  previously  endured  in  Baghdad  and 
Algiers,  among  others.  Once  again,  I  extend  our 
condolences to the Secretary-General, and express our 
solidarity with the victims and their families, as well as 
with  the  hard-working  members  of  staff  of  the  United 
Nations. 

The  tenth  anniversary  of  the  attack  on  the  Twin 
Towers in the city of New York took place a few days 
ago. We have lived through a bloody decade since the 
attack, 
the 
international community against terrorism.  

I  firmly  believe  in,  and  reaffirm,  the  need  to 
strengthen international cooperation in order to prevent 
and  fight  terrorism.  Every  country  must  assume  the 
obligation  to  address  this  universal  scourge.  That  is 
why  Spain  joined,  from  the  beginning,  the  initiative 
regarding  the  Global  Counterterrorism  Forum.  The 
Forum was launched just a few days ago.  

We  firmly  support  United  Nations  initiatives 
within  the  framework  of  its  Global  Counter-Terrorism 
Strategy, as well as the efforts of the Security Council 
and  of  the  Secretariat  to  rationalize  the  existing 
structures in  order to  reach the goals  that we have set 
in this area. 

Spain  is  especially  sensitive  with  regard  to  the 
victims  of  terrorism.  Unfairly  forgotten  at  times,  they 
cannot  be  mentioned  only  as  a  rhetoric  tool.  Rather, 
there should be an effective commitment to give them 
recognition,  remember  them  and  provide  them  the 
assistance  and  support  that  they  deserve.  That  is  how 
the  determined  fight  of 
in  spite  of 
11-51378 

13 

its 
and 
growth 
fuelling 
A/66/PV.24 

we  have  understood  the  position  of  victims  in  Spain, 
and we have passed legislation on the issue, giving us 
one  of  the  most  advanced  and  efficient  models  in  the 
world in assisting the victims of terrorism. 

Spain  follows  very  closely  the  dynamism  of  a 
region with strong links with Spain — Latin America. 
The  strength  of  the  Latin  American  economy  is 
essential  to  overcome  the  crisis  and  to  create  a  new 
international economic governance. 

That is why enhancing and consolidating a broad 
dialogue  with  Latin  America  is  crucial.  The  dialogue 
should  include  the  big  issues  on  the  global  agenda, 
such  as  the  design  of  an  ambitious  and  innovative 
international  financial  architecture,  as  well  as  the 
response  to  climate  change,  energy,  security  and 
migration. 
Latin America’s regional integration has been  an 

engine 
improving 
understanding. Spain has always wished to support this 
process  in  the  framework  of  the  Ibero-American 
Summits. 

Other  regions  of  the  world  also  deserve  special 
attention  because  of  the  tragic  situations  of  their 
populations  as  a  result  of  drought  and  other  endemic 
problems.  

The situation in the Horn of Africa is intolerable. 
We  are  contributing  to  alleviating  the  famine  in 
Somalia, in coordination with other donors and United 
Nations  agencies.  However,  humanitarian  aid,  despite 
being  a  priority, 
towards 
development. We  still  have  a  long  way  to  go  in  many 
parts of the world. 

I  therefore  reaffirm  Spain’s  commitment  to  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  The  fight  against 
poverty is a fundamental objective of my country’s aid 
and cooperation for development policy. The challenge 
of 
should 
encourage  us  to  redouble  our  efforts  to  achieve  them 
within the deadline that has been set. 

However,  in  order  to  realize  the  Goals  and  to 
provide  a  future  for  generations  to  come,  we  must 
make the most of meetings such as the one to be held 
in  Rio  de  Janeiro  in  2012,  where  the  intention  is  to 
forge a new paradigm that should allow us to combine 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  with  environmental 
sustainability. 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
is  only  a 
first  step 
to 
relating 
the  Organization 

It  is  also  important  to  take  advantage  of  the 
momentum created by the Cancún Conference in 2010 
on  the  climate  change  negotiating  process.  We  will 
continue  to  contribute  to  the  process  constructively, 
together  with  our  European  Union  partners,  at  the 
upcoming Durban Conference. 

The financial crisis affecting the global economy 
cannot be an excuse to avoid our commitments. On the 
contrary, it should encourage us to fulfil them. That is 
why  Spain  believes  in  supporting  the  development  of 
innovative financing instruments — in other words, the 
development of mechanisms through which to mobilize 
mid-term and long-term additional financial resources. 
That  should  be  done  in  a  way  that  is  stable  and 
predictable, as well as being complementary to official 
development  aid,  which  should  be  maintained,  come 
what  may.  Spain  currently  chairs  the  leading  Pilot 
Group  on  innovative  financing  for  development,  of 
which we have great hopes. 
Spain’s  support  for,  and  participation  in,  the 

activities  of 
the 
maintenance  of  peace  and  security  in  diverse  parts  of 
the  world  also  demonstrates  our  commitment  to  the 
achievement  of  the  purposes  of  the  United  Nations. 
Almost  1,200  Spaniards  actively  participate  today  in 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations,  with  an 
especially  prominent  presence  in  the  United  Nations 
Interim  Force  in  Lebanon,  a  mission  essential  to 
maintaining  stability  in  the  south  of  the  country,  as 
well as to helping its economic development. 

I thank the Secretary-General for participating in 
the inauguration of the United Nations base in Quart de 
Poblet, Valencia, thus recognizing Spain’s commitment 
to  the  United  Nations.  The  construction  of  the  base, 
which  Spain  provided  to  the  United  Nations,  will,  as 
the  Secretary-General  said,  facilitate  the  work  of  the 
Organization, 
its 
communications  and  considerably  improve  the  safety 
and security of staff in the field. 

Spain is very proud of its participation in United 
Nations  operations.  We  intend  to  maintain  a  firm, 
active, permanent commitment to the Organization and 
its  purposes.  In  line  with  that  commitment,  Spain 
announced in 2005 its candidature for a non-permanent 
seat  on  the  Security  Council  for  the  biennium  2015-
2016.  We  hope  that,  with  the  support  of  Member 
States, we shall have a seat on the Council and in that 
position  continue  working  for  the  preservation  of 
reliability 
enhance 
the 
of 
14 

11-51378 
for 
that 
the 
it.  The 
We  are 
today  certain 


international  security  and  stability.  At  the  same  time, 
we  will  strive  to  promote  development  and  human 
rights as fundamental pillars of lasting peace. 

A  year  ago,  Libyan,  Egyptian  and  Tunisian  men 
and  women  witnessed  the  Assembly  meeting  while 
they  were  still  under  the  oppression  of  dictatorial 
regimes.  Today  they  own  their  future.  They  have 
fought 
international  community  has 
protected and supported them. They, on their part, have 
given  us  hope.  We  can  now  hope  that  change  is 
possible. There is no insurmountable challenge. 

international 
community,  guided  by  the  United  Nations,  is  on  the 
path of peace and freedom. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Henri  Eyebe  Ayissi, 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the  Republic  of 
Cameroon. 
Mr. Eyebe Ayissi (Cameroon) (spoke in French): 

First,  on  behalf  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Paul  Biya, 
President  of  the  Republic  and  Head  of  State  of 
Cameroon, and on behalf of the delegation that I have 
the  honour  to  lead  at  the  current  session,  I  warmly 
congratulate the President on his unanimous election to 
preside over the Assembly at its sixty-sixth session. 

To Mr. Joseph Deiss, his predecessor, we wish to 
say how much his work as President of the Assembly at 
its  sixty-fifth  session  was  appreciated, 
just  as 
Cameroon  appreciated  his  visit  to Yaoundé  in  January 
during his African visit. 

We  also  once  again  sincerely  congratulate 
Mr. Ban  Ki-moon  on  the  extension  of  his  mandate  as 
Secretary-General 
five  years.  His 
determination  and  commitment  to  the  United  Nations 
during  his  first  term  of  office  contributed  to  the 
initiatives and important actions of the United Nations 
to  promote  peace 
economic 
development  throughout  the  world.  He  will  have  our 
best  wishes  and  constant  support  during  his  second 
term, when we hope that he will successfully continue 
his    work  in  every  area  within  the  framework  of  the 
United  Nations  agenda,  particularly 
terms  of 
aligning  and  harmonizing  the  points  of  view  of  the 
various Member States.  
This  year  a  new  Member,  the  Republic  of  South 

the 
Sudan, 
opportunity  to  solemnly,  but  joyfully,  welcome  it  on 
the  Organization.  We  had 
further 
for  a 
joined 
and 
social 
and 
A/66/PV.24
14 July,  following  its  declaration  of  independence  a 
few days earlier. The arrival of this new State allows a 
dark chapter to be closed: decades of war, with a litany 
of woes, death, displaced persons, tears, human tragedy 
and  suffering  among  the  people  of  that  land  on  our 
African continent.  

Cameroon takes the opportunity to join in paying 
a well-deserved tribute to the leaders of the Sudan and 
of  South  Sudan,  as  well  as  to  the  United  Nations  and 
the African Union, for their tireless work in supporting 
the  negotiations  before 
the  Comprehensive  Peace 
Agreement  was  signed  in  2005,  as  well  as  during  its 
subsequent 
implementation.  The  United  Nations 
Mission  in  the  Sudan  and  the  recent  creation  of  the 
United  Nations  Mission  in  the  Republic  of  South 
Sudan, whose task it is to support the new State in the 
process of consolidating its institutions and democracy, 
show  the  unique,  decisive  role  played  by  the  United 
Nations,  fully  in  line  with  the  fundamental  purposes 
and principles of its founding Charter. 

Cameroon  welcomes  the  role  that  the  United 
Nations  has  played  in  that  regard.  In  more  general 
terms, we believe that its role in conflict management 
should be played in a fully transparent way and in line 
with the principles, purposes and ideals of the Charter, 
which calls for the peaceful settlement of international 
disputes  and  for  respect  for  the  sovereignty  and 
territorial integrity of States.  

That  is  where  the  theme  selected  for  this  sixty-
sixth  session  —  “The  role  of  mediation  in  the 
settlement  of  disputes  through  peaceful  means”  — 
takes on its importance,  reminding us that the Charter 
states that the Organization’s primary purpose is 

“To  maintain 
for 

international  peace  and 
security,  and  to  that  end:  to  take  effective 
collective  measures 
the  prevention  and 
removal  of  threats  to  the  peace,  and  for  the 
suppression  of  acts  of  aggression  or  other 
breaches  of  the  peace,  and  to  bring  about  by 
peaceful  means,  and  in  conformity  with  the 
principles  of 
law, 
adjustment or settlement of international disputes 
or situations which might lead to a breach of the 
peace”. 
The  Charter  also  calls  upon  Members  of  the 
international 
justice  and 

United Nations to  
in 
11-51378 

15 
A/66/PV.24 



institutions  and 
the 
reconciliation 
inconsistent  with 
“refrain  in  their  international  relations  from  the 
threat  or  use  of  force  against  the  territorial 
integrity or political independence of any state, or 
in  any  other  manner 
the 
Purposes of the United Nations.” 

International  disputes,  and  a  fortiori  internal 
conflicts, should be settled peacefully in line with our 
Charter, through negotiation and mediation, rather than 
by recourse to force.  

That  is  the  position  that  the  African  Union,  the 
continental  organization  of African  States,  ceaselessly 
advocates  and  defends.  Cameroon  agrees  with  the 
African  Union  that  any  lasting  solution  to  an  internal 
political  crisis  must  take  into  account  the  State’s 
national  political 
legitimate 
aspirations  of  the  people  concerned,  but  also  the 
maintenance  of  the  country’s  unity  and  territorial 
integrity.  It  considers  that  priority  must  be  given  to 
measures that guarantee the maintenance of peace, the 
promotion  of  national 
the 
consolidation of a democratic culture and ownership of 
the rule of law by Governments and citizens. 
With regard to some current burning questions in 

this  area,  and  particularly  with  regard  to  management 
of  the  Libyan  issue,  Cameroon  noted  the  General 
Assembly  decision  on  19  September  approving  the 
mandate  of  the  Libyan  delegation  established  by  the 
National Transitional Council, as well as the statement 
made  here  by  the  Chairperson  of  the  African  Union 
Council  on  21  September,  which  was  preceded  by  the 
19  September  press  release.  Fully  in  line  with  our 
external policy, Cameroon will respect the decision and 
statement  in  the  context  of  its  bilateral  relations  with 
the  Libyan  State,  and  within  various  international 
institutions. 

to 
is 
support States and their peoples in the management of 
their national affairs, and in seeking to ensure that they 
control  their  own  fate.  Governments,  for  their  part, 
must seek to  respond to the legitimate aspirations and 
the many and varied expectations of their peoples in all 
areas.  
In  Cameroon  the  Government  is  seeking  to 

implement  the  reforms  that  began  a  few  years  ago  to 
consolidate 
and 
modernize  our  democracy.  At  the  same  time,  it  has 
established  policies 
environment 
favourable  to  development  and  revenue-generating 
international  community’s  duty 
institutions 
to 
create 
an 
national 
political 
It 
the 
and 
activities  and  to  improve  the  living  conditions  of  its 
people, in a context of repeated international economic 
and  financial  crises,  which  have  disturbing  effects  on 
the national programmes of States. 

In  economic  terms,  my  country  has  had  since 
2009  a  real  moral  compass  for  national  players,  both 
public  and  private,  and  for  our  external  partners:  the 
Growth  and  Employment  Strategy  document.  The 
document  is  part  of  a  comprehensive  shared  vision  of 
development  for  Cameroon  up  to  2035,  called  Vision 
2035.  It  emphasises  seeking  increased  growth,  job 
creation, poverty reduction and a tangible improvement 
in the living conditions of our people. The strategy will 
be  implemented  by,  in  particular,  large-scale,  labour-
intensive building projects throughout the country, with 
particular  emphasis  on  the  energy  sectors,  mining  and 
the creation of human capital. 
In  political  terms,  and  with  regard  to  elections, 

our 
independent  electoral 
institution  —  Elections 
Cameroon  (ELECAM)  —  set  up  in  2006  and  made 
responsible  for  the  entire  electoral  process,  from  the 
electoral  register  to  the  organization  of  the  ballot,  the 
oversight  of  elections  and  referendums,  has  become 
fully operational, and has a number of local offices. 

Giving  the  right  to  vote  to  Cameroonians  living 
abroad  is  part  of  the  law  that  was  promulgated  this 
year.  The  electoral  register  has  been  updated  by 
ELECAM,  and 
incentives,  such  as  free  national 
identity cards, were given to encourage a large turn-out 
at  the  elections.  Furthermore,  legal  provisions  have 
been  established  to  ensure  the  transparency,  freedom, 
honesty and credibility of the elections in a context of 
consensual democracy.  
In that regard, there is a deadline of importance to 

term.  On 
the  Cameroonian  people 
9 October they will have the right to elect their leader 
and  determine  their  future,  as  is  the  case  in  all 
democracies. I am referring to the presidential election. 
With  all  of  the  provisions  that  I  have  just  mentioned, 
made  with  the  technical  assistance  of  United  Nations 
specialized  agencies,  we  believe  that  the  conditions 
now  exist  to  ensure  that  the  election  takes  place 
peacefully. Independent national and foreign observers 
will be authorized to monitor the presidential election.  

I  wish  to  highlight  with  pride  the  political 
maturity  demonstrated  by  the  people  of  Cameroon. 
They have always been able to make the best choice in 
order to ensure that we preserve national achievements, 
the  short 
in 
16 

11-51378 
internal, 
that 
throughout 


particularly  with  regard  to  peace  and  national  unity, 
and  the  people  have  been  able  to  work  together  in  a 
spirit of patriotism, and with a high sense of a citizen’s 
responsibilities  when  required  to  meet  the  various 
they 
challenges,  both  external  and 
encounter  and  have  encountered 
their 
history. 

I  reiterate  Cameroon’s  commitment  to  peace 
through  mediation,  as  well  as  its  commitment  to 
democracy  and  good  governance,  both  internally  and 
internationally.  

I close by emphasizing my country’s commitment 
to the ideals of the Charter, and to those set out in the 
Constitutive  Act  of  the  African  Union.  My  country 
wishes to see enhanced cooperation between those two 
international  institutions,  as  they  deal  with  issues 
affecting African  countries,  in  line  with  the  spirit  and 
letter of those two international instruments.  
This  has  been,  on  behalf  of  the  President  of  the 

Republic of Cameroon, His Excellency Mr. Paul Biya, 
Head of State and head of Cameroonian diplomacy, our 
contribution  to  the  general  debate  at  the  sixty-sixth 
session of the General Assembly of the United Nations, 
which  is  our  common  international  Organization  with 
global competence. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  shall 

now call on those representatives who wish to speak in 
exercise of the right of reply.  

in 
exercise of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes 
for  the  first  intervention  and  to  five  minutes  for  the 
second, and  should be made by delegations from their 
seats. 
the 

Assembly  heard  a  statement  by  the  Prime  Minister  of 
the Republic of Albania, Mr. Sali Berisha. In what has 
become  an  annual  ritual,  he  devoted  a  significant  part 
of his statement to the problem of Kosovo, a statement 
which  contained  the  expected  misrepresentations  and 
falsehoods. They are of such a nature that they simply 
must  not  remain  unanswered.  Let  me  attempt  to  deal 
with them as briefly and succinctly as possible. 

Prime  Minister  Berisha  stated  that  Kosovo  “has 
shown  assiduous  commitment  and  seriousness  in  the 
process of negotiations in Brussels” (A/66/PV.22). It is 
equally 
that  Kosovo  has  shown  assiduous 
commitment  and  seriousness  by,  in  parallel,  taking 
May  I  remind  members 
(Serbia):  This  morning 
that  statements 
Mr.  Starčević
true 
A/66/PV.24
and 
international 
involves  give 
the  opinion  —  “is 
unilateral  actions  of  a  coercive  nature,  attempting  to 
create a fait accompli on issues on which negotiations 
were  still  pending.  By  so  doing,  Kosovo  creates 
tensions  and  conflicts,  thus  endangering  the  very 
process  of  negotiations  to  which  it  is  supposedly 
committed. The  truth  is  that  Kosovo  is  not  committed 
to  that  process  at  all.  Aware  that  every  process  of 
negotiations 
take,  Kosovo, 
emboldened  by  its  mighty  protectors,  wants  only  to 
take. No sustainable solution has ever been possible on 
that basis. 

Prime  Minister  Berisha  misrepresented  the  July 
2010  advisory  opinion  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice,  stating  that  it  decided  that  “the  declaration  of 
independence  of  Kosovo”  —  supposedly  from  the 
Albanian  version  of 
in  full 
compliance with international law.” (ibid.) 

The  Court  never  said  that;  it  actually  concluded 
that  “the  declaration  of  independence  of  17  February 
2008  did  not  violate  general 
law” 
(A/64/881,  para.  84),  but  only  because  “the  Court 
considers  that  general  international  law  contains  no 
applicable 
of 
independence.”  

That formulation does not convey the opinion of 
the  Court  that  the  unilateral  secession  of  Kosovo  is 
legitimate,  or  that  Kosovo  became,  through  it,  an 
independent State. The Court made it very clear that it 
did  not  even  consider  whether  the  declaration  was 
justified,  or  whether  it  produced  any  legal  effects. 
Every  international  lawyer  knows  that  in  actuality  the 
real question posed remained unanswered. And, by the 
way, it created a number of dissenting opinions in the 
Court. 
Prime  Minister  Berisha  spoke  of  “Ahtisaari’s 

package”. It is obviously a “package” only for Kosovo 
and  Albania,  since  neither  Serbia  nor  the  Security 
Council  ever  accepted  it.  It  therefore  remains  at  the 
level of individual ideas on the Kosovo problem.  

Furthermore,  Prime  Minister  Berisha  also  stated 
that “Serbian cultural heritage in Kosovo is today more 
secured  than  ever.”  (A/66/PV.22).  In  evaluating  that 
phrase,  one  should  only  remember 
the  Albanian 
pogrom  of  Serbs  in  2004,  when  over  30  Christian 
Orthodox  churches  were  destroyed.  The  remaining 
churches continue to be routinely desecrated today.  
declarations 
prohibition 
of 
11-51378 

17 

A/66/PV.24 


Prime Minister Berisha  asserted that  “interethnic 
relations  in  all  areas  where  Serbs  and  Albanians  live 
together  in  the  same  communities  are  very  good” 
(ibid.). One should only analyse the minuscule number 
of  Serbs  returning  to  their  properties  in  Kosovo,  and 
daily accounts of attacks on remaining Serbs and their 
property, to see that that is a rose-coloured image of a 
grim reality. 

The Prime Minister of Albania spoke of “criminal 
groups  and  organized  gangs  that  with  weapons  and 
other means are doing all in their hand to devastate the 
rule of law.” (ibid.). I suppose that the Prime Minister 
was  speaking  of Albanian  groups,  which  have  a  long 
tradition of trampling the rule of law in Kosovo and in 
a  number  of  other  countries  of  the  world.  Films  have 
been made on that subject, and even here, in New York, 
dozens  of  members  of  the  Albanian  mafia  were 
apprehended only a few months ago. 

On  the  issue  of  the  return  of  the  remains  of 
victims  of  the  conflict  in  Kosovo,  the  Republic  of 
Serbia has shown full readiness to do everything in its 
power  to  complete  that  task.  It  expects  Kosovo  to  do 
the same.  

to,  or  read 
afterwards,  the  attempts  of  the  Prime  Minister  of 
Albania to deny the most horrendous crimes committed 
anywhere in the region of former Yugoslavia during the 
period  of  conflict:  abducting  hundreds  of  younger 
Serbs,  killing  them  and  selling  their  organs  on  the 
black market.  
It is easy to understand why the Prime Minister is 

doing it, because most of those crimes were committed 
in the territory of Albania. But implying that Carla del 
Ponte,  the  United  Nations  Interim  Administration 
Mission  in  Kosovo  and  Dick  Marty  and  all  the 
witnesses he spoke to are lying is simply too much. If 
he  believes  that  he  can  wish  those  crimes  away,  we 
believe  that  he  is  wrong,  and  that  the  international 
community  will  insist  on  a  full  investigation  and  the 
prosecution of the perpetrators of the crimes, which are 
without parallel in modern humanity. 
Mr. Hoxha (Albania): I am compelled to exercise 

my  right  of  reply  after  the  comments  made  by  the 
representative  of  Serbia  in  exercise  of  his  right  of 
reply. I profoundly disagree with what we heard. 

It  is  a  well  known  fact  that  Albania  and  Serbia 
disagree  on  the  Kosovo  issue,  as  was  also  witnessed 
is  really  difficult 
listen 
to 
It 
that 
thing  — 
the  same 
during  the  general  debate.  Nevertheless, Albania,  like 
many  other  Member  States,  and  an  ever-growing 
number  of  them,  is  convinced  that  the  independent 
Kosovo  is  the  only  solution  in  a  region  torn  apart  by 
war,  fuelled  by  ethnic  hatred  of  the  Serbia  under 
Milošević rule. The independent Kosovo, as reality has 
proved, is, and will be, a key contribution to peace and 
stability  in  the  region,  and Albania  continues  to  hope 
that Serbia will come to terms with this undeniable and 
irreversible reality. 

Last year, the Assembly received with respect the 
International  Court  of  Justice  advisory  opinion  (see 
A/64/881)  on  the  declaration  of  independence  of 
Kosovo,  an  opinion  that,  we  should  remember,  was 
requested  by  Serbia.  We  all  know 
the  Court’s 
conclusion — although we heard a semantic effort that 
said 
the  declaration  of 
independence  did  not  violate  any  provision  of 
international law. As was stated many times before the 
ruling,  Serbia  is  expected  to  accept  and  respect  the 
Court’s  findings.  We  are  still  waiting  for  that  to 
happen. 

It  needs  to  be  emphasized  that  during  the  recent 
troubles  caused  by  vandalism  and  primitivism  in  the 
north of Kosovo the open support offered by Belgrade 
to  that  unrest  had  a  clear  purpose.  For  months  now, 
senior  Serbian  ministers  and  other  high  Government 
officials  have  rivalled  each  other  in  their  declarations 
that  the  partition  of  Kosovo  is  the  only  solution.  We 
need  to  remind  the Assembly  that  whoever  speaks  of 
partition,  of  changing  borders  in  the  Balkans,  is 
looking back to the darkest moments of recent Balkan 
history, which we think, and hope, will never return. 
Like  many  other  countries,  Albania  extends  its 

full  support 
to 
implement  the  rule  of  law,  exercise  its  authority  in 
close cooperation with the international presence there, 
and  never  yield  to  criminals,  to  the  parallel  structures 
and to individuals who care only for their own interest, 
and  not  the  interests  of  the  Serbian  community  they 
pretend to represent. 
As German Chancellor Angela Merkel said a few 

weeks  ago 
implement 
agreements  with  Kosovo,  allow  the  European  Union 
Rule of Law Mission in Kosovo (EULEX) to operate in 
the entire territory of Kosovo, and abolish the parallel 
structures  in  the  north. We  are  waiting  to  see  whether 
this message has been well understood in Belgrade. 
the  Government  of  Kosovo 
in  Belgrade,  Serbia  must 
to 
18 

11-51378 



The Serbian representative referred to a document 
known  as  the  Dick  Marty  report.  Let  me  be  clear:  the 
Albanian  Government  considers  this  report,  and  the 
heinous  crimes  it  alleges,  to  be  pure  speculation, 
misleading  assertions  and  unfounded  conclusions  that 
have no match with reality.  

Albania is a democracy, a State of the rule of law 
and a society that has put respect for human rights and 
dignity  at  the  foundations  of  its  society. Albania,  as  a 
party most interested in the truth, has officially invited 
EULEX to investigate in full, and in a transparent and 
independent  manner,  all  aspects  of  those  allegations 
that involve any part of Albanian territory.  

For  that  very  reason,  Albania  voted  for  the 
resolution  of  the  Council  of  Europe  Parliamentary 
Assembly, as it believes that the ongoing investigation 
is the only way to cut short the loud propaganda, which 
we heard again this evening and which has been going 
on for too long.  

The  question  is  whether  Serbia  will  be  able  to 
accept the findings of the EULEX investigation or will 
act  in  the  way  that  it  did  with  regard  to  the  advisory 
opinion of the International Court of Justice, which, as 
I have said, Serbia itself asked for. 
A/66/PV.24
Albania  and  Serbia  are 

two  democracies, 
members of the south-east European community, which 
we  believe  is  moving  fast  towards  the  future  it 
deserves.  We  look  forward  to,  and  are  working 
towards, a more integrated region at all levels. 

As  has  been  repeatedly  stated,  we  are  ready  to 
develop  bilateral  relations  with  Serbia,  in  the  very 
same way as we are developing them with all the other 
countries in the region. We have many common issues 
to develop in what we see as our common agenda, the 
most important one being European Union integration, 
which  we  think  should  be  the  main  drive  for  our 
common future.  
Mr.  Milanović  (Serbia):  My  delegation  has  said 

all  that  we  deemed  necessary  in  relation  to  the 
statement of the Prime Minister of Albania. It is up to 
the  members  of  the  Assembly  to  draw  their  own 
conclusions,  since  we  see  no  need  to  prolong  this 
exchange. 
Mr. Hoxha (Albania): I am really glad that we at 

least  agree  that  we  have  no  need  to  prolong  this 
discussion. 

  The meeting rose at 8.10 p.m. 
11-51378 

19 
