



United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

17th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 22 September 2011, 6 p.m. 
New York 

A/66/PV.17
Official Records
President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 







  The meeting was called to order at 7.55 p.m.  




High-level Meeting of the General Assembly to 
commemorate the tenth anniversary of the adoption 
of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action 
Agenda item 67 (continued) 
Elimination of racism, racial discrimination, 
xenophobia and related intolerance 
  (b)  Comprehensive implementation of and follow-
up to the Durban Declaration and Programme 
of Action  
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The  General 

Assembly  will  now  hear  a  presentation  by  His 
Excellency  The  Right  Honourable  Sibusiso  Barnabas 
Dlamini, Prime Minister of the Kingdom of Swaziland 
and  co-Chair  of  round  table  1,  who  will  present 
summaries of the discussions in the two round tables. 
Mr. Dlamini (Swaziland): I am pleased to present 

to  the  General  Assembly  today  the  summary  of  the 
fruitful  discussion  that  was  held  today  during  the  two 
round tables on the theme of “Victims of racism, racial 
discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related  intolerance: 
recognition, justice and development”.  

The  first  round  table  was  co-chaired  by  me  and 
by His Excellency Mr. Arvin Boolell, GOSK, Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs,  Regional 
and 
International  Trade  of  Mauritius.  The  second  round 
table was co-chaired by His Excellency Mr. Mohamed 
Mouldi  Kefi,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Tunisia, 
Integration 
on 
the 
Elimination 
and His Excellency Mr. Ricardo Bucio, President of the 
National Council to Prevent Discrimination of Mexico.  

The following experts made presentations during 
the  round  tables:  Mr.  Anwar  Kemal,  Chair  of  the 
Committee 
of  Racial 
Discrimination;  Ms.  Edna  Maria  Santos  Roland, 
member  of  the  group  of  independent  eminent  experts 
on  the  implementation  of  the  Durban  Declaration  and 
Programme  of  Action;  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mohamed 
Siad  Douale,  Chair  of  the  Intergovernmental  Working 
Group  on  the  Effective  Implementation  of  the  Durban 
Declaration and Programme of Action; and Ms. Verene 
Shepherd, member of the Working Group of Experts on 
People of African Descent. 

participation 
of 
representatives  of  civil  society  during  the  discussions 
was greatly appreciated. During the discussions, many 
speakers  pointed  out  that  the  Durban  Declaration  and 
Programme  of  Action,  together  with  the  outcome 
document  of  the  2009  Durban  Review  Conference, 
provide a very comprehensive and solid framework for 
combating  racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia 
and related intolerance. 

Today  there  are  still  millions  of  victims  of 
racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related 
intolerance  around  the  world.  Victims  do  not  have 
access,  for  example,  to  education,  employment  and 
housing. Migrants and refugees are mistreated just for 
being  different.  The  Internet  is  used  to  disseminate 
racist  ideas  among  youth,  and  such  sites  promoting 
engagement 
The 
and 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-50877 (E) 
*1150877* 


the 
and 
The 
xenophobia 
discrimination, 
ratification  of 
importance  of 
indigenous  peoples, 
A/66/PV.17 

racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related 
intolerance should be eliminated. 

It  was  noted  that  the  Durban  Declaration  and 
Programme  of  Action  provides  useful  guidance  to 
Governments,  non-governmental  organizations  and 
other  institutions  in  their  efforts  to  combat  racism, 
racial 
related 
intolerance.  However,  it  is  important  to  ensure  its 
implementation. 

the 
International  Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All 
Forms  of  Racial  Discrimination  and  the  work  of  the 
Committee  on  the  Elimination  of  Racial  Discrimination, 
which was focused on the needs of vulnerable groups, 
such  as 
immigrants,  migrant 
workers, Afro-descendants, Roma and other minorities, 
was emphasized.  

It  was  stated  that  in  2001,  the  international 
community  focused,  for  the  first  time,  on  victims, 
including  people  of  African  descent, 
indigenous 
peoples, and people of Asian descent, Roma, migrants, 
refugees,  displaced  people,  asylum-seekers,  national 
and  religious  minorities,  women,  youth  and  children 
and victims of trafficking. 

The  2001  World  Conference  against  Racism, 
Racial  Discrimination,  Xenophobia  and  Related 
Intolerance  acknowledged  that  slavery  and  the  slave 
trade were crimes against humanity, and also included 
a gender perspective. 

Policies are being developed in many countries in 
the  areas  of  education,  health,  labour,  access  to  land 
and  housing.  Despite  achievements,  serious  problems 
remain  worldwide.  The  misuse  of  technologies  to 
disseminate  hate  and  racist  ideas  is  one  example. The 
need for data collection was highlighted and an appeal 
for  the  proclamation  of  a  United  Nations  decade  for 
People of African descent was made. 

Many  speakers  reaffirmed  the  importance  of  the 
need  for  commitment  and  political  will  to  realize 
human  rights  for  all  without  discrimination.  Speakers 
also  welcomed  the  adoption  by  consensus  of  the 
political  declaration  —  the  outcome  of  the  High-level 
Meeting of the General Assembly to commemorate the 
tenth  anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the  Durban 
Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action  (resolution 
66/3). 
the 
level, 
to 
issues, 
racism, 
including 
including 
legislation, 
focused  on  victims  of 
Speakers  also  stated  that  the  theme  of  this  event 

rightfully 
racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance and 
the  need  for  their  recognition  and  access  to  justice. A 
speaker  noted  that  achieving  justice  is  often  the  first 
step  towards  achieving  equality.  Some  speakers  also 
stated that the global response to racism should not be 
clouded  by  politics  and  that  it  is  an  obligation  and 
responsibility  for 
international  community  — 
including civil society — to collectively work together 
to  combat  racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia 
and related intolerance. 
They  also  referred  to  measures  taken  at  the 

national 
policies, 
specialized  institutions  and  programmes  to  combat 
racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related 
intolerance. The importance of human rights education, 
awareness-raising  campaigns,  continued  dialogue  on 
anti-discrimination 
interreligious 
dialogue, and cooperation with civil society was noted 
by a number of speakers.  

The importance of the media to promote a culture 
of  tolerance  and  respect  for  diversity  was  also  noted. 
The  fight  against  racism  should  not  be  used  to  curtail 
or  limit  other  rights  and  should  not  be  an  excuse  for 
repression.  The  need  to  share  best  practices  and  to 
provide  targeted  technical  assistance,  including  with 
the  support  of  the  United  Nations,  in  the  area  of 
combating  racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia 
and related intolerance was emphasized by speakers. 

The  importance  of  fighting  poverty,  particularly 
as  articulated  in  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
was  stated.  The  need 
to 
development  in  anti-discrimination  efforts  was  also 
stated, as was the importance of a human rights-based 
approach for sustainable development. 

Prominent  in  the  discussion  was  the  issue  of 
discrimination  against  migrants.  It  was  stated  that 
migrants  experienced 
racial  abuse,  xenophobia, 
discriminatory 
labour 
living 
conditions,  and  trafficking,  for  example.  Concern  was 
expressed  in  various  statements  about  the  situation  of 
groups 
in  vulnerable  situations,  such  as  women, 
children,  refugees  and  indigenous  peoples.  Concern 
was  also  expressed  with  respect  to  discrimination 
based on sexual orientation. 
The  issue  of  discrimination  against  religious 

minorities and the need to foster harmony and peaceful 
the  right 
practices, 
integrate 
harsh 
2 

11-50877 


coexistence  of  different  religions  in  societies  were 
emphasized.  The  rise  of  right-wing  or  nationalist 
movements,  xenophobic  statements  by  politicians  and 
other  public  figures  and  the  dissemination  of  such 
sentiments  were  highlighted  as  another  important  area 
of  concern.  Several  speakers  referred  to  people  under 
foreign  occupation  and  the  situation  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territories.  The  importance  of  not  singling 
out a specific region or country was also emphasized. 

It was noted that progress had been made but that 
gaps  persisted.  It  was  emphasized  that  countering 
discrimination is a global issue that needs to be tackled 
by  joint  efforts.  The  importance  of  economic,  social 
and  cultural  rights  for  the  lives  of  victims  was  also 
noted. 

It was also emphasized that in order to guarantee 
the  right  against  discrimination  within  a  society,  the 
creation  and  strengthening  of  specialized  national 
bodies, in accordance with the Durban Declaration and 
Programme  of  Action,  is  fundamental.  This  requires 
that  specialized  organizations  have  a  broad  legal 
mandate,  funds  and  appropriate  infrastructure  that 
would  allow 
to  effectively  promote  equal 
opportunities and treatment among persons of different 
societal  groups.  It  was  stressed  that  today’s  work 
should  help  us  reflect  on  the  necessity  of  establishing 
specialized  national  bodies  in  the  fight  against  racial 
discrimination,  xenophobia  and  all  other  forms  of 
discrimination and intolerance. 
The need to apologize and to provide reparations 

to  victims  of 
trade  was 
highlighted, as was the recommendation to establish a 
permanent  forum  for  Africans  and  people  of  African 
descent.  The  proposal  to  erect  a  memorial  for  the 
victims of the trans-Atlantic slave trade was welcomed 
by several speakers. 

A  speaker  encouraged  Member  States  to  provide 
innovative and effective reparations, including resources to 
support  social  programmes  to  assist  people  of African 
descent.  Monitoring  of  acts  of  racist  discrimination  is 
important in order to prevent further abuses. 

It  was  further  emphasized  that  the  theme  of  the 
event  accurately  reflected  the  essence  of  the  Durban 
Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action.  It  was  also 
noted that the Political Declaration adopted during this 
commemorative  event  will  bolster  the  morale  of  the 
victims  of  racism,  racial  discrimination,  xenophobia 
and  related  intolerance  around  the  world.  Countering 
trans-Atlantic  slave 
them 
the 
A/66/PV.17
in 
the 
racism, 
fight  against 
the  mainstreaming  of  hate  speech  was  defined  as 
imperative 
racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance. 

A number of speakers expressed appreciation for 
the  work  of  the  Office  of  the  United  Nations  High 
Commissioner for Human Rights and the leadership of the 
High  Commissioner  in  the  domain  of  anti-discrimination 
efforts.  Many  speakers  noted 
that  States  should 
continue 
to  combat  racism,  racial  discrimination, 
xenophobia and related intolerance, and called for both 
national  and  regional  processes  to  be  strengthened. 
They also called for reinvigorated political will.  

The  tenth  anniversary  of  the  Durban  Declaration 
and  Programme  of  Action  represents  for  many  an 
opportunity  to  scale  up  their  efforts  and  to  exchange 
ideas on how to prevent racism and discrimination and 
share good practices. Several speakers emphasized that 
the  tenth  anniversary  coincided  with  the  International 
Year  for  People  of  African  Descent.  In  that  respect, 
some  suggested  that  a  decade  for  people  of  African 
descent  be  proclaimed  in  2012.  Some  called  for 
establishing  a  permanent  forum  and  others  called  for 
proclaiming an international day for people of African 
descent. 

A  number  of  speakers  also  expressed  concern 
about  the  trend  of  incitement  to  hatred.  A  number  of 
speakers  emphasized 
that  an  effective  system  of 
protection  requires 
improved  coordination  among 
human  rights  mechanisms.  There  is  a  also  a  need  to 
enhance  the  performance  of  the  Durban  Declaration 
and  Programme  of Action  follow-up  mechanisms  and 
to ensure commensurate funding for their activities.  

the  primary 
responsibility  of  States  for  combating  racism,  racial 
discrimination,  xenophobia  and  related  intolerance. 
They  also  stated 
institutional  changes  and 
affirmative  action  had  been  implemented  to  improve 
the lives of victims and groups in vulnerable situations. 
Still,  a  lot  remains  to  be  done.  The  importance  of 
countering corruption and ensuring the rule of law was 
further emphasized.  

Today’s  discussion  was  thoughtful,  constructive 
and  forward-looking.  Hopefully  this  commemoration 
will  not  remain  mere  rhetoric  and  we  will  all  move 
together towards practical actions. Indeed, as stated in 
the Political Declaration that we adopted by consensus 
this morning, we shall  
speakers  underscored 
Several 
that 
11-50877 

3 
A/66/PV.17 



racism, 
and 
fight  against 
xenophobia 
“Proclaim together our strong determination 

racial 
to  make 
the 
discrimination, 
related 
intolerance,  and  the  protection  of  the  victims 
thereof,  a  high  priority  for  our  countries.” 
(resolution 66/3, para. 12) 
The President (spoke in Arabic): As we draw to 

a  close  this  High-level  Meeting  to  commemorate  the 
tenth  anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the  Durban 
Declaration and Programme of Action, I would like to 
extend  my  sincere  gratitude  to  everyone  here  for 
coming together to reaffirm our collective commitment 
to  prevent,  combat  and  eradicate  racism,  racial 
discrimination, xenophobia and related intolerance.  

I  would  also  like  to  express  once  more  my 
heartfelt  gratitude  to  the  co-facilitators,  Ms.  Isabelle 
Picco,  Permanent  Representative  of  Monaco,  and 
Mr. Michel Tommo Monthe, Permanent Representative 
of  Cameroon, 
leadership 
the  High-level 
throughout 
Meeting. Let me also take this opportunity to sincerely 
thank  the  co-Chairs  and  all  of  the  participants  in 
today’s meeting. I commend the peace-loving Member 
States that supported this process and worked together 
to address this serious global challenge.  
Today  we  have  heard  about  the  important  work 

being  done  worldwide 
the  Durban 
Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action.  We  have  also 
heard about efforts to make progress towards realizing the 
fundamental principles of equality and non-discrimination, 
in accordance with international human rights law and 
the relevant instruments.  
Unfortunately,  we  have  also  heard  that,  despite 

concerted 
racial 
discrimination continue to perpetrate deeply embedded 
social and economic disparities.  
their  exceptional 
to 
implement 
the  preparations 
for 
for 
efforts, 
racist 
attitudes 
and 

That  rising  inequality  and  discrimination  make 
the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action and 
the  commitments  in  the  Political  Declaration  that  we 
adopted  this  morning  (resolution  66/3)  even  more 
urgent.  It  is  vital  that  we  go  further  to  implement 
measures to counter intolerance and eradicate advocacy 
of hatred, incitement and discrimination. It is vital that 
we  do  our  utmost  to  promote  and  strengthen  effective 
dialogue, which in turn increases understanding within 
and among communities and promotes social cohesion. 
It  is  vital  that  we  unite  in  our  efforts  and  collaborate 
more intensively in order to effectively combat racism 
and other forms of discrimination.  

I firmly believe that the principles of equality and 
non-discrimination are essential for social harmony, for 
the promotion of good governance and the rule of law, 
for sustainable development and for the fair allocation 
of resources. It is therefore crucial for the dignity and 
development  of 
that  we 
continue to fight the scourge of racism.  

I  urge  everyone  here  to  continue  to  speak  with 
one  voice,  to  unite  in  our  efforts  and  to  collaborate 
more  intensively,  in  order  to  combat  racism  and  to 
make the world a safer, more harmonious place for all.  
(spoke in English) 

The High-level Meeting of the General Assembly 
to commemorate the tenth anniversary of the adoption 
of the Durban Declaration and Programme of Action is 
now concluded. 

The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage  of  its  consideration  of  sub-item  (b)  of  agenda 
item 67. 

  The meeting rose at 8.20 p.m. 
the  world’s  population 
4 

11-50877 
