
A/66/PV.29
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

29th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 27 September 2011, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 







In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Thomson 
(Fiji), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m. 


Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency Mr. Nicolás Maduro Moros, Minister of the 
People’s  Power  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Bolivarian 
Republic of Venezuela. 

Mr.  Maduro  Moros  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela)  (spoke in Spanish):  It  is  almost  the  end  of 
the  beginning  of  the  annual  debate  in  United  Nations. 
Having listened to and evaluated positions on different 
world issues debated by the planet and all of humanity, 
the delegation of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela, 
the South American Bolivarian Republic, has received 
for the purposes of sharing with the Governments and 
the brotherly peoples of the world through the General 
Assembly  a  letter  from  the  president  of  our  Republic, 
Commander Hugo Chávez Frías. This letter contains a 
series  of  comments  and  reflections  that  are  necessary 
and relevant for a democratic debate in our world and, 
above all, for the process of the growing empowerment 
of the peoples of the  world and of transformation  and 
necessary  re-establishment  of  the  United  Nations  as  a 
multilateral  system  that  has  been  with  us  for  the  last 
six or seven decades. 




to  delegations 
Chávez: 


By your leave, Sir, I will  read out  and  distribute 
letter  from  Commander  Hugo 
the 
the 
reality  of 
to  express 
law.  Unfortunately, 
“Caracas, 26 September 2011 


“I  am  writing  these  words  to  the  United 
Nations  General  Assembly,  that  great  forum 
where  representatives  of  all  the  peoples  of  the 
world  meet 
the 
Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela and to reaffirm 
our  unwavering  commitment  to  justice,  equality 
and peace.  

“Peace,  peace,  peace  …  let  us  not  look  for 
peace in cemeteries, as Kant said with irony, but 
rather  through  the  most  zealous  respect  for 
international 
the  United 
Nations, throughout its history, instead of adding 
and multiplying efforts for peace among nations, 
has  ended  up  by  supporting  the  most  ruthless 
injustices,  sometimes  by  acts  of  commission, 
sometimes by acts of omission.  

“We  need  to  recall  the  Preamble  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  which  talks  of 
saving  future  generations  from  the  scourge  of 
war. Those are just empty words; since 1945, the 
number  of  wars  has  continued 
to  grow 
inexorably.  Let  us  look  once  again  at  Libya  in 
ruins,  covered  in  blood,  because  of  the  powerful 
people in this world.  

“I  call  on  the  Governments  of  the  world  to 
consider  that  since  11  September  2001,  a  new 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-51681 (E) 
*1151681* 

A/66/PV.29 


it  needs 
to  sustain 
imperialist  war  was  started,  an  unprecedented, 
permanent, perpetual war. 

“We  need  to  face  the  cruel  reality  of  our 
world.  We  must  make  a  list  of  our  concerns 
stemming  from  the  dangers  and  threats  that  are 
stalking  us.  Why  is  the  United  States  the  only 
country  that  sows  military  bases  all  over  the 
world?  What  is  it  so  afraid  of  that  it  must  set 
aside staggering budgets for constantly increasing 
its  military  strength?  Why  has  it  unleashed  so 
many  wars,  violating  the  sovereignty  of  other 
countries,  which  have  the  same  rights  over  their 
futures?  How  can  we  can  we  use  international 
law to counter its senseless ambition to militarily 
dominate  the  world  in  order  to  ensure  access  to 
the  energy  sources 
its 
predatory  consumerist  model?  Why  does  the 
United Nations do nothing to stop Washington?  

“If  we  answer  all  of  these  questions  with 
absolute  sincerity,  we  would  understand  that  the 
empire  has  crowned  itself  judge  of  the  world, 
without  anyone  bestowing  that  responsibility  on 
it and even though, therefore, the imperialist war 
is a threat to us all.  

“Washington knows that a multipolar world 
is  already  an  irreversible  reality.  Its  strategy 
consists of halting the sustained rise of groups of 
emerging countries at any price, by promoting its 
major interests with its partners and followers in 
order  to  direct  multi-polarity  along  the  path  that 
the  empire  wants.  What  is  more,  the  goal  is  to 
reconfigure  the  world  so  that  it  sustains  Yankee 
military  hegemony.  Humankind 
is  facing  a 
genuine  threat  of  permanent  war. As  the  case  of 
Libya shows, the empire is ready, in any scenario, 
to create the political conditions for going to war. 
In  the  imperial  worldview,  Clausewitz’s  famous 
axiom 
the 
continuation of war by other means. 
“What is behind this new Armageddon? It is 

the  military-financial 
the  absolute  power  of 
leadership, 
the  world 
its 
destroying 
accumulation of more profits, a military-financial 
leadership that is in fact subordinate to a group of 
States.  It  should  be  borne  in  mind  that  war  is 
financial capital’s way of life: war that ruins most 
people  and  makes  a  few  unimaginably  rich.  At 
this moment we have a profoundly serious threat 
reversed:  politics 
is  being 
in 
is 








2 

of 
is  on 
version 
in  no  way  curbed 
to global peace: the unleashing of a new cycle of 
colonial  wars,  starting  with  Libya,  with  the 
cynical goal of breathing new life into the global 
capitalist  system,  whose  current  structural  crisis 
has  still 
its  destructive, 
consumerist  voraciousness.  The  case  of  Libya 
should  alert  us  to  the  desire  to  practice  a  new 
imperial 
colonialism:  military 
interventionism  endorsed  by  the  anti-democratic 
bodies  of  the  United  Nations  and  justified  by 
prefabricated lies. 

“Humankind 
the  brink  of  an 
unimaginable catastrophe. The world is marching 
inexorably 
the 
terrifying  consequences  of  global  warming 
proclaim it, but the ideology of the environmental 
equivalents  of  Cortés  and  Pizarro,  the  early 
Spanish  colonizers  who  destroyed  part  of  the 
American  continent  —  as  the  influential  French 
thinker  Edgar  Morin  has  said  —  drives  them  to 
continue  their  depredations  and  destruction.  The 
energy  and  food  crises  worsen,  while  capitalism 
still breaches every boundary with impunity. 

“As we face this bleak prospect, our way is 
lighted  by  the  great American  scientist  and  two-
time  Nobel  prize  winner,  Linus  Pauling,  who 
said: 

towards  devastating  ecocide; 

‘I believe that there is a greater power 
in the world than the evil power of military 
force,  of  nuclear  bombs  —  there  is  the 
power 
of 
humanitarianism.  I  believe  in  the  power  of 
the human spirit’. 
of  morality, 
good, 
of 
to  prevent 
Then let us mobilize all the power of the human 
spirit; it is time. We must unleash a great political 
counter-offensive 
the  powers  of 
darkness finding justification for going to war, so 
they can unleash the generalized global war with 
which  they  hope  to  save  the  West’s  capital. 
Venezuela  calls  for  the  establishment  of  a  grand 
alliance  against  war  and  for  peace,  with  the 
supreme  goal  of  avoiding  war  at  all  costs.  The 
warmongers 
the  military-
financial leadership that sponsors and leads them 
must  be  defeated  politically.  Let  us  build  the 
balanced  universe  envisioned  by  the  liberator 
Simón  Bolivar,  the  balance  that,  as  he  said, 
especially, 
and, 
11-51681 






to 
justify  hasty  and 
the  member  countries  of 
cannot  be  found  in  war;  the  balance  born  out  of 
peace. 
“Let us take note and remember: Venezuela, 

the 
along  with 
Bolivarian  Alliance  for 
the  Peoples  of  Our 
America,  actively  advocated  for  a  peaceful  and 
negotiated solution to the Libyan conflict, as did 
the African Union. Eventually, however, the logic 
of war decreed by the Security Council and made 
a reality by NATO, the armed wing of the Yankee 
empire,  was  imposed,  the  logic  of  war  whose 
vanguard is the transnational media. 

“Let  us  remember  that  the  case  of  Libya 
was  brought  before  the  Security  Council  on  the 
basis  of  intense  propaganda  on  the  part  of  the 
media,  which  lied  in  saying  that  the  Libyan Air 
Force  was  bombing  innocent  civilians,  not  to 
mention  the  grotesque  media  setting  of  Tripoli’s 
Green Square. This premeditated campaign of lies 
was  used 
irresponsible 
decisions by the Security Council, paving the way 
for  NATO’s  policy  of  military  regime  change  in 
Libya.  It  is  worth  asking:  what  became  of  the 
no-fly  zone  established  by  Security  Council 
resolution 1973 (2011)? How could the more than 
20,000  NATO  missions  flown  against  Libya, 
many  of  them  aimed  at  bombing  the  Libyan 
people,  not  represent  the  denial  of  the  no-fly 
zone? Once the Libyan Air Force was completely 
annihilated, 
‘humanitarian’ 
bombing showed that the West, through NATO, is 
imposing  its  interests  on  North  Africa,  turning 
Libya into a colonial protectorate. 

“It  is  a  joke  to  say  that  the  United  Nations 
imposed an arms embargo on Libya, when NATO 
itself  brought  in  thousands  of  heavy  weapons  in 
support  of  a  violent  insurrection  against  that 
country’s  legitimate  Government.  The  embargo, 
of  course,  was  there  only  to  prevent  the  Libyan 
Government  from  defending 
its  sovereignty, 
exposing  yet  again  the  functioning  of  the  cruel 
international system, under which the law applies 
only to the weak. 

“What  is  the  real  reason  for  this  military 
intervention?  To  recolonize  Libya  so  as  to  take 
over  its  wealth.  We  have  no  doubt  about  that. 
Everything  else  is  subordinate  to  that  goal.  No 
one  colonizes  innocently,  as  the  great  poet  of 
continued 
the 
A/66/PV.29
to 
Martinique,  Aimé  Césaire,  rightly  said  in  his 
extraordinary  essay  on  colonialism.  By  the  way, 
the  residence  of  Venezuela’s  Ambassador  in 
Tripoli  was  invaded  and  looted  while  the  United 
Nations  stayed  mute,  guarding  a  shameful 
silence. 

“We demand the immediate cessation of the 
bombing  on  Libyan 
territory.  We  will  also 
continue  demanding  that  international  law  be 
respected in the case of this sister nation. We will 
not remain silent in the face of evil intentions to 
destroy  the  foundations  that  endow  it  with  sense 
and reason. We therefore put this question to the 
Assembly: Why  is  the  Libyan  seat  in  the  United 
Nations  granted 
the  so  called  National 
Transitional  Council  while  Palestine’s  admission 
is  blocked  by  ignoring  not  only  its  legitimate 
aspiration, but also the will of the majority of the 
General Assembly? With all its strength and with 
the  moral  authority  granted  it  by  the  will  of  the 
majority  of 
the  world’s  peoples,  Venezuela 
hereby  affirms  its  unconditional  solidarity  with 
the  Palestinian  people  and  its  unlimited  support 
for  the  Palestinian  national  cause,  including,  of 
course,  the  immediate  admission  of  Palestine  to 
the United Nations as a full Member State. 

“And the same imperialist formula is being 
repeated in the case of Syria. Had not some of the 
Security  Council’s  permanent  members  stood 
firm,  it  would  all  have  ended  with  the  Council 
authorizing NATO to fire its missiles and send its 
bombers  against  Syria.  It  is  intolerable  that  the 
to 
Powers  of 
themselves 
legitimate, 
sovereign  rulers  to  resign  on  the  spot.  Having 
succeeded  in  Libya,  they  wish  to  proceed  in  the 
same  way  against  Syria.  Such  are  the  current 
asymmetries that exist on the international scene, 
and  such  are  the  abuses  done  to  independent 
nations. 

“It  is  not  for  us  to  pass  judgement  on 
Syria’s  domestic  situation,  first,  because  of  the 
inherent  complexity  of  any  national  reality,  and 
secondly,  because  only  the  Syrian  people  can 
solve their problems and decide their fate by the 
right  to  self-determination  of  all  peoples,  an 
inalienable right in every sense. But that does not 
prevent  us  from  believing  that  it  is  100  times 
better to bet on the success of the broad national 
this  world  wish 
the 
to  arrogate 
to  order 
right 



11-51681 

3 
A/66/PV.29 


dialogue  for  which  President  Basher  Al-Assad 
has called than to impose sanctions and howl like 
hyenas for military intervention. We fully support 
the  efforts  of  President Al-Assad  to  preserve  the 
stability and unity of his country, which is being 
besieged by the West.  

“Now  let  us  turn  to  the  Horn  of  Africa, 
where  we  will  witness  a  heartbreaking  example 
of  the  United  Nations’  historic  failure.  Most 
serious  news  agencies  report  that  20,000  to 
29,000 children under the age of five have died in 
the last three months. 

“The  journalist  Frida  Modak,  in  her  article 
‘To  Die  In  Somalia’  reveals  the  miserliness  that 
afflicts the major international organizations, first 
among  them  the  United  Nations,  a  level  of 
poverty  worse  than  that  ravaging  the  vast  region 
of the Horn of Africa. 
“In order to confront this situation, we need 

$1.4  billion,  not  to  solve  the  problem  but  to 
address  the  emergency  that  Somalia,  Kenya, 
Djibouti  and  Ethiopia  are  going 
through. 
According  to  all  information  received,  the  next 
two months will be decisive if we are to prevent 
the  death  of  more  than  12  million  people.  That 
situation is most acute in Somalia. 
“We  must  also  ask  ourselves  how  much 

money is being spent on sophisticated weapons to 
destroy  Libya.  Here  is  the  answer  of  United 
States  Congressman  Dennis  Kucinich,  who  says, 
‘This new war will cost us $500 million during its 
first  week  alone.  Obviously,  we  do  not  have 
financing  resources  for  that  and  we  will  end  up 
cutting  off  other  important  domestic  programs’ 
funding’. According to Mr. Kucinich himself, the 
amount  spent  in  northern Africa  during  the  first 
three weeks to massacre the Libyan people could 
have been used to help the entire Horn of Africa, 
saving dozens of thousands of lives. 

“The  reasons  behind  the  criminal  military 
engagement in Libya are not humanitarian at all. 
They  are  based  on  the  Malthusian  postulate  that 
there  are  simply  too  many  people  in  the  world 
and that they have to be eliminated by generating 
more hunger, destruction and uncertainty, thereby 
creating more financial profits.  











4 

to  believe 

“In this regard, it is frankly regrettable that 
the  opening  address  of  the  sixty-sixth  session  of 
the  General  Assembly  did  not 
include  an 
immediate appeal to solve the humanitarian crisis 
in the Horn of Africa, even as it asserted that the 
time  had  come  to  act  on  Syria.  What  criminal 
cynicism! 

“We  also  call  for  an  end  to  the  shameful 
criminal  blockade  against  our  sister  republic  of 
Cuba,  imposed  by  the  United  States  empire  for 
more than 50 years with gruesome cruelty against 
the heroic people of José Martí. By 2010, a total 
of  19  separate  votes  in  the  General  Assembly 
articulated  the  universal  demand  that  the  United 
States  cease  its  economic  and  trade  blockade 
against Cuba.  

“Since  all  arguments  of  international  good 
sense  have  been  exhausted,  we  have  no  choice 
but 
that  such  aggravated  cruelty 
against  the  Cuban  Revolution  is  the  result  of 
imperial arrogance in the face of the dignity and 
courage  shown  by  the  defiant  Cuban  people  in 
their  sovereign  decision  to  determine  their  own 
fate and fight for their happiness. 

“In Venezuela, we believe that the time has 
come  to  demand  that  the  United  States  not  only 
immediately and unconditionally end the criminal 
blockade  it  has  imposed  against  the  Cuban 
people,  but  that  it  also  release  the  five  Cuban 
anti-terrorist  fighters  held  hostage  in  the  prisons 
of the empire solely for seeking to prevent illegal 
actions that terrorist groups are preparing against 
Cuba, under the protection of the Government of 
the United States. 
“We wish to reiterate that it is impossible to 

ignore  the  crisis  in  the  United  Nations.  In  2005, 
before  this  very  General  Assembly,  we  declared 
that 
the  United  Nations  was 
obsolete. Back then, we also said that it needed to 
be  rebuilt  from  the  ground  up,  and  that  the 
process could not be postponed. 

“Since  then,  nothing  has  been  done.  The 
political will of the most powerful has prevailed. 
Of course, the United Nations, as it continues to 
function,  docilely  serves  their  interests.  If  its 
Secretary-General, along with the President of the 
International Criminal Court, takes part in an act 
of war, as is the case with Libya, then nothing can 
the  model  of 
11-51681 








be  expected  from  the  current  structure  of  this 
Organization,  and  there  is  no  longer  time  for 
reform.  The  United  Nations  does  not  accept  any 
reform whatsoever. The illness within it is fatal. 

“It  is  unbearable  that  there  is  a  Security 
Council that turns its back, whenever it wants to, 
on 
the  clamour  of  a  majority  of  nations, 
deliberately  refusing  to  acknowledge  the  will  of 
the General Assembly. If the Security Council is a 
kind  of  club  with  privileged  members,  what  can 
the  General Assembly  do?  What  is  the  scope  of 
its  operation  when 
its  members  violate 
international law? 

“Paraphrasing  the  liberator  Simón  Bolívar, 
who  was  referring  specifically,  in  1818,  to  the 
then  newborn  Yankee  imperialism,  we  have  had 
enough  of  laws  being  applied  by  the  weak  and 
abuses  being  committed  by  the  strong.  The 
peoples of the South cannot be the ones to respect 
international 
the  North  violates, 
law,  while 
destroys and plunders us. 

“If  we  do  not  commit  ourselves  once  and 
for  all  to  restructuring  the  United  Nations,  this 
Organization  will  definitively  lose  its  last  shred 
of  credibility. 
is 
accelerating toward a final implosion. In fact, that 
is  what  happened  to  its  immediate  predecessor: 
the League of Nations. 

“A  crucial  and  decisive  first  step  towards 
restructuring  the  United  Nations  would  be  to 
eliminate  the  category  of  permanent  member 
along  with  the  right  to  veto  in  the  Security 
Council. Likewise, the decision-making power of 
the  General  Assembly  must  be  democratically 
maximized.  A  comprehensive  review  of 
the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  is  also  urgently 
required, with the aim of drafting a new Charter. 

“The future of a peaceful, multipolar world 
depends  on  the  determination  of  the  majority  of 
the  world’s  people  to  defend  ourselves  from  the 
new  colonialism  and  to  achieve  a  balance  in  the 
universe  that  will  be  capable  of  neutralizing 
imperialism and its arrogance. 

respectful  and 
inclusive  call  is  addressed  to  all  the  peoples  of 
the  world,  but  most  especially  to  the  emerging 
“This  broad,  generous, 
Its  crisis  of 
legitimacy 




A/66/PV.29
a 
bloc 
that 
political 
to  confront 
to  break  with 
Powers  of  the  South,  which  must  courageously 
rise to the role they are being asked to play.  

“From  Latin America  and  the  Caribbean,  a 
powerful  dynamic  of  regional  alliances  has 
emerged  that  seeks  to  create  a  democratic  space 
that will be respectful of differences and eager to 
emphasize  solidarity  and  complementarity 
in 
order  to  maximize  that  which  unites  us  and 
resolve politically whatever divides us.  

“This  new  regionalism  allows  for  diversity 
and  respects  everyone’s  rhythms. The  Bolivarian 
Alliance  for  the  Peoples  of  Our  America  is 
growing 
into  an  experimental  vanguard  of 
progressive  and  anti-imperialist  Governments, 
seeking  ways 
the  prevailing 
international order and strengthening the people’s 
capacity 
the  de  facto  Powers. 
However, that does not prevent its members from 
contributing decisively and enthusiastically to the 
consolidation  of  the  Union  of  South  American 
Nations, 
federates 
12 sovereign  States  of  South  America  into  what 
the  liberator  Simón  Bolívar  called  ‘a  Nation  of 
Republics’.  Furthermore,  the  33  countries  that 
comprise  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  are 
currently  preparing  to  take  the  historic  step  of 
establishing  a  single  great  regional  entity  that 
unites  us  all,  without  exception,  through  which 
we will be able to design policies that will ensure 
our  well-being,  our 
independence  and  our 
sovereignty,  based  on  equality,  solidarity,  and 
reciprocity.  

“Caracas,  the  capital  of  the  Bolivarian 
Republic  of  Venezuela,  is  proud  to  be  able  to 
host,  on  2  and  3  December  of  this  year,  the 
summit  of  heads  of  State  and  Government  that 
will  definitely  establish  the  Community  of  Latin 
American and Caribbean States. 

“The people of Venezuela have placed their 
hopes  in  a  broad  alliance  of  regional  assemblies 
of  the  South,  such  as  the  Union  of  South 
American Nations, the Caribbean Community, the 
Central American Integration System, the African 
Union, 
the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
the  Economic  Cooperation 
Nations 
and 
Organization, 
among 
regional 
organizations,  and  specifically  in  interregional 
coordinating  bodies  of  emerging  Powers  such  as 
other 
11-51681 

5 
A/66/PV.29 



the BRICS group — consisting of Brazil, Russia, 
India,  China  and  South  Africa  —  which  must 
become a focus of attention in coordination with 
the peoples of the South. 

“I  would  like  to  conclude  by  recalling  the 
great  Venezuelan  singer  Ali  Primera,  whose 
poetic voice sent a message of life and revolution 
to our people. In one of his songs, he asks: what 
is  man’s  struggle  to  achieve  peace?  And  what 
kind of peace would it be, if we were to leave the 
world  as  it  is?  Today  more  than  ever,  the  worst 
crime  against peace would be to leave the world 
as  it  is;  if  we  were  to  do  so,  the  present  and  the 
future  would  be  characterized  by  unending  war. 
Bringing about peace, on the other hand, requires 
a  radical  rejection  of  everything  that  prevents 
humankind from being human.”  
The  Acting  President: I  now  call  on  Her 

Excellency  Ms.  Hina  Rabbani  Khar,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Pakistan. 
Ms.  Khar  (Pakistan):  I  am  honoured  to  be  here 

today and to represent the brave and resilient people of 
Pakistan  before  the  Assembly.  As  participants  may 
know, the Prime Minister of Pakistan, Mr. Syed Yusuf 
Raza  Gilani,  was  due  to  visit  New  York  and  address 
this  House.  Unfortunately,  the  Prime  Minister  could 
not come owing to the humanitarian disaster caused by 
the floods in Pakistan. Once again, I feel privileged to 
be able to deliver the remarks of the Prime Minister to 
the General Assembly. 
I bring to Mr. Al-Nasser and to all the nations of 

the  world  assembled  here  salaam,  peace  and  the 
greetings  and  good  wishes  of  the  people  of  Pakistan. 
We  are  delighted  to  be  able  to  address  the  General 
Assembly  under  the  leadership  of  Mr. Al-Nasser. This 
is an important session of the Assembly, and the State 
of Qatar is  a  truly deserving and  able country  for this 
occasion. The Pakistani people have intimate, brotherly 
relations  with  his  great  country,  and  I  speak  for  my 
people in welcoming his presidential term. His election 
to  this  high  office  is  as  much  a  tribute  to  his 
outstanding  qualities  as  it  is  to  the  high  esteem  in 
which his country is held in the comity of nations. 

Why  are  we  here?  Other  than  the  allure  of  New 
York  City,  why  have  we  converged  at  the  General 
Assembly?  Pakistan  is  here  because  it  believes  in 
multilateralism. Each September we return to this great 
city  and  this  grand  stage  so  that  we  can  restate  and 
rather 
than 
by 
consensus 
reaffirm the principles and values of multilateralism. It 
is and has been one of the abiding central tenets of our 
foreign  policy.  We  are  committed  to  the  very  idea  of 
the United Nations. 

To  us,  the  idea  is  very  simple.  We  can  do  more 
together  than  we  can  apart.  We  can  solve  complex 
problems 
through 
unilateralism. Multilateral cooperation can help us deal 
with the spectrum of global challenges, old and new, in 
our interdependent world. As we grow more and more 
dependent  on  one  another,  the  space  for  unilateralism 
and  unidimensional  answers  to  the  most  difficult 
questions shrinks. Those who are sceptical of the future 
of multilateralism are living in the past. The future, our 
collective global future, is, God willing, bright. It is the 
United Nations and multilateralism that will safeguard 
that future. 

Pakistan  believes  in  the  promise  of  the  United 
Nations: a world free from the scourge of war; a world 
governed by rules and norms of civility, of decency, of 
goodwill; creating a better future for the peoples of the 
world; and inter-State conduct premised on the respect 
for the immutable principles of the United Nations. We 
must  ensure  that  the  United  Nations  is  the  best 
representation of the aspirations of our peoples. 

We must do better. There is far too much distance 
between  those  aspirations  and  the  sometimes  dark 
realities of our times. We are constantly struggling with 
difficult choices and cycles: expediency versus values, 
interests  versus  ideals.  There  is  conflict,  discord  and 
death.  Natural  and  man-made  calamities  spread  fear 
and  destitution  among  millions,  and  often  exacerbate 
and expose already unacceptable levels of poverty and 
deprivation. We face these challenges in every country. 
We  cannot  afford  to  face  them  alone.  The  importance 
of 
togetherness  and  of  our  faith  and  collective 
commitment to the ideals, principles and values of the 
United Nations cannot be overstated. 

Togetherness,  or  multilateralism,  of  course,  does 
not  mean  uniformity  or  conformity.  It  does  not  mean 
falling  in  line.  Instead,  it  means  harmony,  tolerance, 
respect  for  diversity  and  a  pragmatic,  cognitive 
realization  that  no  one  system,  no  single  prescription, 
no one raah, or path, works for all. Each society, every 
culture  offers  a  path  for  the  march  of  mankind. 
Preconceived assumptions about the superiority of one 
way  or  the  other  must  not  be  allowed  to  contaminate 
the spirit of the United Nations. 
6 

11-51681 
like 
I  would 
to  compliment 



Pakistan’s  oldest  spiritual  traditions  and  most 
beloved  poets  and  peers  have  taught  us  that  there  can 
be  no  progress  where  the  mind  is  divorced  from  the 
heart. Faith in the United Nations is a manifestation of 
the  best  rational  traditions  and  the  most  cherished 
traditions  of  idealism  and  believing  in  something.  We 
believe in the United Nations. The spirit of the United 
Nations must permeate all our endeavours. The peoples 
of  the  world  await  the  advent  of  the  true  age  of  the 
United  Nations.  We  must  reassert  our  promise  to 
deliver it. 

the  Secretary-
General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  on  his  tireless  efforts  in 
bringing  to  bear  the  vast  reservoir  of  goodwill, 
compassion  and  common  humanity  of  Member  States 
in successfully addressing a wide array of challenges. 

On  behalf  of  the  people  of  Pakistan,  I  wish  to 
convey  our  grateful  thanks  to  the  Secretary-General 
and  the  international  community  for  their  support  and 
solidarity,  expressed  so  generously  in  the  wake  of  the 
devastating floods last year. 

This  year  again,  heavy  monsoon  rains  have 
caused  widespread  flooding.  Millions  have  been 
affected,  with  about  5.4  million  people  rendered 
homeless.  Human  and  economic  losses,  as  well  as  the 
pressing  requirements  of  relief  and  rehabilitation, 
obliged  us  to  seek  international  assistance.  We  again 
thank  the  international  community  for  its  support  and 
solidarity. 
The  Pakistani  people  continue  to  consistently 

immense  reservoir  of  courage, 
demonstrate 
forbearance  and  generosity.  God  willing,  we  shall 
overcome  this  misfortune  through  the  same  fortitude 
and resilience that our people have been blessed with. 

At this session of the General Assembly, Pakistan 
is seeking election to a seat on the Security Council. In 
soliciting the support of President Al-Nasser, I wish to 
assure him that we would discharge our responsibilities 
with utmost dedication to the high ideals and principles 
of the United Nations. 

to 
promoting the goals of peace, security and stability in 
the  world.  In  our  own  region,  we  have  relentlessly 
endeavoured 
to  create  an  environment  of  shared 
prosperity  and  peace.  A  democratic,  progressive  and 
prosperous  Pakistan  embedded  in  a  stable,  secure  and 
prosperous region guides the framework of our foreign 
Pakistan  attaches 
the  highest 
importance 
their 
A/66/PV.29
to  our 
We  have 
reached  out 
policy and could yield enormous benefits not only for 
the peoples of our region but for those of the world as 
well. 

immediate 
neighbours  with  a  sincere  desire  to  join  hands  in 
bringing about durable peace and development through 
a  win-win  approach.  Situated  as  we  are  on  the 
crossroads of Central, South and West Asia, we realize 
the  enormous  opportunities  that  ensue  from  pursuing 
with diligence the vision of common development and 
cooperation. 

I  am  happy  to  note  that  both  Pakistan  and  India 
are now engaged in a substantive dialogue process that 
we 
in  Pakistan  hope  will  be  uninterrupted  and 
uninterruptible.  We  certainly  intend  to  make  that 
engagement fruitful and to premise it on the promise of 
a  mutually  rewarding  enterprise  that  would  enable  us 
to  make  the  best  use  of  the  complementarities  that 
exist. 

We  look  forward  to  resolving  all  outstanding 
issues,  including  the  Jammu  and  Kashmir  dispute, 
which is among the oldest on the agenda of the United 
Nations  and  the  subject  of  several  Security  Council 
resolutions.  A  peaceful  resolution  that  accords  fully 
with  the  aspirations  of  the  Kashmiris  is  indispensable 
for  durable  stability,  as  is  the  need  to  safeguard  their 
fundamental human rights. 
The  reality  of  a  nuclearized  South Asia  imposes 

the  onerous 
both  on  Pakistan  and  on 
responsibility 
to  create  mutual 
confidence,  avoid  an  arms  race  and  enhance  strategic 
stability. We  look  forward  to  moving  in  that  direction 
in the dialogue process. 

Pakistan  is  also  firmly  committed  to  promoting 
stability  and  peace  in  Afghanistan.  We  respect  and 
support  the  efforts  of  the  Government  of Afghanistan 
for  reconciliation  and  peace,  under  the  leadership  of 
President Karzai. 

We strongly condemn the terror attacks in Kabul, 
in  which  many  precious  lives  were  lost.  We  also 
express  our  sympathy  to  our  brothers  and  sisters  and 
the 
tragic 
assassination  of  Mr.  Burhanuddin  Rabbani,  former 
President  and  Chairman  of  the  Afghan  High  Peace 
Council.  Such  cowardly  attacks  will  never  succeed  in 
deterring  our  proud  Afghan  brothers  and  sisters  from 
realizing the noble goals of reconciliation and peace. 
leadership  of  Afghanistan  on 
to  work 
together 
India 
the 
11-51681 

7 

to 
Joint 
Pakistan 
importance 
Commission 
A/66/PV.29 


fully  supports  an  Afghan-led  and 
Afghan-owned  inclusive  process  of  reconciliation  and 
peace in Afghanistan. We want to see Afghanistan as a 
united,  independent  and  sovereign  State.  We  urge  all 
concerned  to  join  the  reconciliation  process.  We  also 
call for a de-escalation and cessation of violence. 

The road ahead for peace in Afghanistan and our 
region as a whole is full of challenges. The complexity 
of  the  situation  and  the  ground  dynamics  need  to  be 
analysed  objectively  and  carefully.  Clarity  and 
strategic coherence, especially among Afghanistan, the 
United  States  and  Pakistan,  are  of 
the  utmost 
importance.  It  is  for  that  reason  that  we  attach 
importance  to  the  work  of  the  Trilateral  Core  Group. 
the 
We  also  attach  considerable 
Afghanistan-Pakistan 
for 
Reconciliation and Peace. 

It  is  only  by  charting  a  clear  road  map  that  we 
will  be  able  to  bring  about  the  necessary  operational 
policy  coordination  to  achieve  our  shared  goals  and 
objectives.  Given  the  volatility  of  the  situation,  it  is 
perhaps  understandable  that  there  is  a  high  level  of 
anxiety and emotion. However, we must not lose sight 
of  the  goals.  We  must  work  together  closely  and  as 
responsible  partners  in  a  cooperative  manner,  and  not 
rush to judgements or question each other’s intentions.  

A  cooperative  endeavour,  in  full  solidarity  with 
the people of Afghanistan, is the only way of ensuring 
peace, stability and prosperity in the region. Pakistan is 
willing  to  do  its  best  with  international  partners  and, 
most notably, the Governments of Afghanistan and the 
United States, to acquit itself of that high responsibility 
at  this  defining  moment  in  one  of  the  most  important 
struggles of our times. 
Pakistan has always upheld the realization of the 

inalienable  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people,  including 
their  right  to  an  independent  homeland  with  Al-Quds 
Al-Sharif  as  its  capital.  Here,  I  would  like  to  reaffirm 
our  principled  position.  President  Mahmoud  Abbas 
made  an  historic  and  memorable  case  for  his  people 
(see A/66/PV.19). We stand by him and the Palestinian 
people.  We  stand  by  our  brothers  and  sisters,  and  we 
agree that the current situation is no longer sustainable. 
We  support  the  quest  of  the  State  of  Palestine  for 
membership of the United Nations. 

In  North  Africa  and  the  Middle  East,  we  have 
witnessed  important  developments.  Pakistan  believes 
the  people  must  be 
that 
aspirations  of 
the 
without 
embrace 
personnel 
shahadat, 
peacefully, 
accommodated 
external 
interference  and  in  a  manner  consistent  with  the 
principle  of  sovereignty,  unity  and  the  territorial 
integrity of States. 

Very  few  countries  have  been  ravaged  by  the 
monster  of  terrorism  as  brutally  as  Pakistan.  We  are 
keenly  aware  of  the  threat  that  terrorism  poses  to 
Pakistan, to Pakistan’s neighbours and to the rest of the 
world.  Some  30,000  innocent  Pakistanis  —  men, 
women  and  children  —  have  been  killed.  The  ever-
valiant Pakistani armed forces have defended Pakistan 
and  the  rest  of  the  world,  at  the  highest  cost.  Our 
troops  have  sacrificed  6,532  shuhada,  or  martyrs. 
Some  19,190  of  our  strongest,  bravest  and  most 
honourable boys have suffered injuries. It does not stop 
there.  We  have  seen  3,629  of  our  police  and 
or 
paramilitary 
martyrdom.  Since  2002,  10,720  of  those  men  and 
women  of  the  police  and  paramilitary  services  have 
been injured.  

The  grieving  mothers,  daughters,  sisters  and 
wives  of  those  brave  men  and  women  are  a  constant 
reminder  of  our  need  to  be  vigilant  and  to  fight  the 
menace  of  terrorism.  Pakistan’s  most  popular  leader, 
Shaheed  Mohtarma  Benazir  Bhutto,  was  assassinated 
in 2007. Numerous politicians have lost sons, brothers 
and  fathers  at  the  hands  of  terrorists.  Our  streets  are 
filled  with  armed  police  posts.  We  cannot  enter  our 
parks,  shopping  centres,  churches  or  mosques  without 
being  searched  and  frisked.  Terrorists  have  attacked 
our  military  installations,  the  grave  sites  of  our 
spiritual  leaders,  our  minorities  and  the  very  idea  of 
Pakistan.  If  I  began  recounting  Pakistan’s  sacrifices 
and suffering, I would be here till next September. We 
do not take terrorism lightly. We  cannot afford to. We 
have suffered far too much at its hands. 

Our  nation  is  united  in  its  determination  to 
eliminate  the  spectre  of  terrorism  from  our  soil,  our 
region  and  the  world.  It  is  important  to  enhance 
international cooperation to totally obliterate terrorism 
in all its forms and manifestations. 

Iqbal, 
legendary  poet  philosopher, 
Pakistan owes a debt of gratitude. Iqbal said: 


Our  resolve  is  inspired  by  Allama  Muhammad 
to  whom 
“The eagle does not fall from its soaring height 
If you have the will, there is nothing to fear from 
adversity” 
the 
8 

11-51681 
the 
The 



Pakistan has the will. We do not fear adversity. It 
is Pakistan’s firm determination not to allow any space 
on  its  territory  for  militants  and  terrorists.  On  the 
regional  plane,  we  must  all  pledge  that  our  respective 
territories  will  not  be  allowed  to  be  used  by  terrorists 
against others. 

issue  of  organizing,  financing,  arming, 
supporting  and  abetting  terrorist  violence  needs  to  be 
addressed  seriously  and  effectively.  Notable  success 
against Al-Qaida  and  its  affiliates  has  been  registered 
in  recent  years.  It  is  well  known  that,  following  the 
Tora  Bora  bombing  and  consequent  dispersal  of 
Al-Qaida,  it  was  Pakistan’s  intelligence  and  security 
agencies  that  interdicted  a  large  number  of  Al-Qaida 
operatives. Very recently, Yusuf Al-Mauritani, the chief 
operative  of  Al-Qaida,  was  arrested  in  a  joint  Inter-
Service  Intelligence  and  Central  Intelligence  Agency 
operation. 

We  must  demonstrate  complete  unity  in  ranks, 
avoid  any  recrimination,  build  greater  trust  and,  more 
important,  bring  about 
requisite  operational 
coordination in combating the menace. Otherwise, I am 
afraid  that  terrorists  are  the  only  ones  who  will  gain. 
Eliminating  terrorism  is  in  our  national  interest.  We 
believe  that  our  success  is  critical  to  regional  and 
global peace and security. 

Despite  our  limited  capacity  and  constraints,  we 
have done all that we can towards realizing the vision 
of  a  bright  future  for  our  people  and  the  peoples  of 
Afghanistan  and 
region.  We  have  actively 
advocated  and  worked  for  closer  regional  economic 
integration.  We  believe  that,  unless  we  prioritize 
development and create win-win scenarios in terms of 
mutually  beneficial  joint  ventures  in  connectivity, 
infrastructure, energy  and trade, we cannot succeed in 
changing the picture. We need to give hope and provide 
a  silver  lining  to  those  who  have  not  seen  peace  for 
three generations and have only taken up mercenarism 
and guns as a means of livelihood. 

Pakistan’s  commitment  to  eliminating  terror  and 
militancy is irrevocable. We believe that action to that 
end warrants a comprehensive approach that deals not 
only  with  the  violence,  but  also  its  root  causes.  That 
requires 
in 
multiple domains. 

Pakistan  has  reached  out  to  all  countries  of  the 
world  to  establish  mechanisms  and  arrangements, 
including intelligence cooperation, mutual assistance in 
international 
cooperation 
enhancing 
the 
A/66/PV.29
the 
reform  must  enjoy 
legal  and criminal matters, and joint operations where 
required. We believe that is a global issue which needs 
to be addressed effectively.  

Pakistan  supports  initiatives  to  strengthen  the 
United  Nations.  However  it  is  important  not  to  start 
anything  that  could  prove  divisive  or  potentially 
unravel the essential pillars of the United Nations. The 
process of Security Council reform must be carried out 
in a manner to reinforce the confidence of the world’s 
peoples  in  that  body  and  enhance  its  credibility  and 
effectiveness.  Such 
full 
consensus  of  the  international  community  and  accord 
with the fundamental principle of sovereign equality.  

I  remain  committed  to  the  vision  of  Pakistan’s 
martyred  leader,  Shaheed  Mohtarma  Benazir  Bhutto, 
who reminded us time and again that selective morality 
is by definition, immoral, and that fundamental human 
values alone must guide our actions. 
Pakistan  attaches  high  importance  to  United 

Nations  peacekeeping  functions  and  is  a  major  troop-
contributor  to  United  Nations  peacekeeping.  Pakistan 
has  consistently  been  among  the  top  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  contributors  for  many  years.  We  have 
over  10,000 
the  United  Nations  Blue 
Helmets. 

We  also  attach  importance  to  United  Nations 
work in the field of disarmament and non-proliferation. 
Our  collective  endeavours  in  those  fields  would  show 
more effective results if we could enhance security for 
all 
through  non-selective  and  non-discriminatory 
approaches.  Normative  work  must  be  premised  on 
principles. 

We  applaud  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  in 
multiple  domains.  The  specialized  organizations, 
bodies  and  institutions  are  veritable  examples  of 
accomplishments based on shared goals and broadened 
fields of cooperation. Pakistan played a leadership role 
in  conceiving  and  piloting  the  One  United  Nations 
Initiative.  That  is  a  potentially  vital  actor  in  global 
development  and  aid  effectiveness.  Despite  the  Paris 
Declaration  and  its  reaffirmation  at Accra,  we  have  a 
long  way  to  go.  The  One  United  Nations  Initiative  in 
Pakistan has struggled to achieve the lofty goals that it 
set,  but  we  continue  to  invest  hope  in  its  eventual 
success. 

important  kind  of 
harmonization  is  the  one  that  takes  place  between 
Of  course, 
the  most 
troops 
in 
11-51681 

9 

A/66/PV.29 

people, between hearts and minds, between nations. We 
place  immense  importance  on  our  ability  to  promote 
harmony  and  tolerance  among  and  between  societies, 
cultures,  faiths  and  nations.  We  know  the  price  to  be 
paid  when  those  values  are  breached,  having  lost  the 
Governor  of  our  most  populous  province,  Salmaan 
Taseer,  and  our  valiant  Minister  for  Minority Affairs, 
Shahbaz  Bhatti,  to  acts  of  violence  perpetrated  by 
extremists.  For  us,  the  process  of  harmony  and 
tolerance begins at home, and we take it very seriously. 
We are committed and our resolve is strong. 

At  the  international  level,  we  are  confident  that 
the United Nations provides the best global forum, as it 
is  fully  equipped 
to  enhance  understanding  and 
goodwill  among  all  members  of  the  international 
community. Respect for beliefs, cultures and traditions 
are 
the  hallmark  of  civilized  conduct.  We  are 
particularly  concerned  over  campaigns  that  tend  to 
stigmatize  Islam  and  Muslims.  Islam  is  a  religion  of 
peace. It is important that the international community 
celebrate our common humanity and unity in diversity. 

The  systemic  fault  lines  in  the  global  economic 
landscape have surfaced lately and remain a source of 
immense  concern. The  debt  and  financial  crisis  added 
another  worrying  dimension  to  the  existing  disparity 
between  developed  and  developing  countries  and 
highlighted  the  need  to  promote  holistic  development 
and  economic  growth.  That  requires  revisiting  the 
fundamentals  and  readiness  to  equitably  address  the 
underlying issues. 

As a democratic country committed firmly to the 
ideals,  values  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations, 
Pakistan  will  continue  to  do  its  best  for  the  cause  of 
global  peace  and  prosperity.  Under  the  leadership  of 
President  Asif  Ali  Zardari  and  Prime  Minister  Syed 
Yusuf  Raza  Gilani,  the  Pakistani  nation  is  moving 
ahead, confident of itself and its enormous capabilities. 
As  a  vibrant  democracy,  we  are  in  the  process  of 
accomplishing  a  historic  societal  transformation.  The 
challenges our people have dealt with have empowered 
and emboldened us further.  

We will remain unflinchingly democratic. We will 
defeat those that seek to terrorize us. We will empower 
women. We will protect the weak and the vulnerable in 
our  midst,  especially  minorities.  We  will  stand  up  for 
the  weak  and  vulnerable  abroad.  We  will  support  the 
human rights of Kashmiris. We will speak in support of 
the Palestinians. We will educate our children. We will 
protect  our  children.  We  will  face  any  and  all 
challenges  with  determination  and  faith.  Most  of  all, 
we  will  be  a  peaceful  and  prosperous  society.  There 
will  be  challenges,  but  we  will  overcome  each  one  of 
them. 

We do not anticipate undertaking that alone. With 
our  neighbours  and  our  friends,  we  will  undertake  it 
all, in a spirit of togetherness and of harmony. We will 
forge  ahead  despite  the  darkness  of  our  times  in  the 
spirit  that  helped  to  build  this  great  institution.  That 
spirit speaks to the very heart of Pakistan’s identity — 
it is the spirit of the United Nations. Let us join hands 
and march forward, for the good of the peoples of our 
countries and for the good of the world. 

I  will  conclude  my  statement  with  the  words  of 
Pakistan’s founding father, Quaid-e-Azam Muhammad 
Ali  Jinnah,  which  is  the  quintessential  expression  of 
Pakistan’s foreign policy. Mr. Jinnah stated, in a radio 
broadcast of February 1948:  

“Our  foreign  policy  is  one  of  friendliness  and 
goodwill towards the nations of the world. We do 
not  cherish  aggressive  designs  against  any 
country  or  nation. We  believe  in  the  principle  of 
honesty and fair play in national and international 
dealings  and  are  prepared  to  make  our  utmost 
contribution  to  the  promotion  of  peace  and 
prosperity  among  the  nations  of  the  world. 
Pakistan will never be found lacking in extending 
its  material  and  moral  support  to  the  oppressed 
and  suppressed  peoples  of  the  world,  and  in 
upholding  the  principles  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter.” 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Pak  Kil Yon,  Deputy  Minister  for 
Foreign  Affairs  and  head  of  delegation  of 
the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea.  
Mr. Pak Kil Yon (Democratic People’s Republic 

of  Korea)  (spoke  in  Korean;  English  text  provided  by 
the  delegation):  First  of  all, 
to 
congratulate  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  on  his 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-sixth  session.  I  am  confident  that  his  able 
leadership will lead this session to a successful result. 
My  congratulations  also  go  to  the  Republic  of  South 
Sudan on its admission to the United Nations. 

twentieth  year  of 
membership  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
This  year  marks 
I  would 
like 
the 
10 

11-51681 


Korea  in  the  United  Nations.  Our  country  joined  the 
United Nations as a result of its desire to defend world 
peace  and  achieve  mankind’s  common  prosperity, 
working  together  with  all  United  Nations  Members. 
Since  that  time,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea  has  remained  faithful  to  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  as  it 
had pledged. 

However, given the present status of international 
relations,  the  logic  of  power  and  highhanded  politics 
has  become  all  the  more  obvious,  thus  negating  the 
principle of sovereign equality, despite  the efforts and 
desires  of  the  United  Nations  Member  States.  A  few 
countries are involved in interference in internal affairs 
and  the  use  of  force  against  sovereign  States  in  an 
attempt to dominate regions where they feel they have 
strategic  interests  under  the  pretext  of  protecting 
civilians and defending peace.  

Regrettably, the United Nations has been misused 
in  this  process.  International  law  and  order  have  been 
violated  and  undermined  by  the  arbitrary  and  high-
handed acts of some major Powers. Given that current 
reality Member States should reaffirm the principle of 
defending peace and sovereign equality as enshrined in 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  and  speed  up  the 
process  of  reform  of  the  United  Nations,  including 
enhancing the power of the General Assembly. 
A  long  time  ago,  the  General Assembly  adopted 

resolutions  on  dismantling 
the  United  Nations 
Command  in  Korea  and  putting  an  end  to  the  United 
States  blockade  against  Cuba,  which  have  not  been 
implemented so far. This is just a random example that 
highlights  the  urgent  need  to  enhance  the  authority  of 
the General Assembly. To enhance the authority of the 
General  Assembly  it  is  urgently  necessary  to  put  in 
place  a  mechanism  whereby  Security  Council 
resolutions related to peace and security, such as those 
on  sanctions  and  the  use  of  force,  are  subject  to  the 
approval  of  the  General  Assembly  before  they  take 
effect. 

Two  other  areas  where  the  prevailing  logic  of 
power in international relations can clearly be seen are 
the Third Committee of the General Assembly and the 
Human Rights Council. Though it is said that reform is 
intended to put an end to politicization, selectivity and 
double  standards  in  dealing  with  human  rights  issues, 
there  still  remains  the  prevailing  reality  whereby 
specific  countries  are  selected  for  discussion  of  their 
A/66/PV.29
sanctions, 
the 
of 
implementation 
human  rights  situations,  while  other  major  human 
rights violators are simply passed over in silence, all in 
accordance with the political objectives and interests of 
the  West  and  the  criteria  of  Western  values.  It  is  our 
view  that  the  reform  process  of  the  human  rights 
bodies  should  be  intensified,  so  as  to  enhance  the 
system  that  seeks  to  ensure  genuine  freedoms  and 
rights  for  the  people  of  all  countries,  and  respect  for 
their diverse histories, cultures, ideas and systems. 

Meanwhile,  some  progress  has  been  made  in  the 
field of sustainable development, one of the three goals 
set  by  the  United  Nations  for  the  last  two  decades 
following  the  Rio  Declaration  on  Environment  and 
Development.  However,  we  are  still  faced  with 
tremendous challenges. 

We  consider  that  the  United  Nations  Conference 
on Sustainable Development to be held in 2012 should 
take  practical  steps  towards  the  creation  of  a  peaceful 
environment for development, the establishment of fair 
international economic and trade relations, the removal 
of 
official 
development  assistance  commitments,  the  transfer  of 
environmentally  friendly  technology  and  increased 
financial assistance to developing countries. 

It is the inalienable right of the Palestinian people 
to  live  free  of  the  Israeli  occupation  and  to  create  an 
independent State of their own. It is also an obligation 
of the international community to admit Palestine as a 
full-fledged  United  Nations  Member  State.  The 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  recognized 
Palestine  as  a  State  in  1988  and  we  support  its 
admission  to  the  United  Nations.  We  believe  that  the 
aspirations  of  the  Palestine  people  will  be  translated 
into a reality. 
Today  in  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 

Korea, a general campaign is on in full swing to build a 
powerful  State,  under  the  wise  leadership  of  the  great 
the 
General  Kim  Jong  Il.  The  Government  of 
of  Korea 
Democratic 
is 
concentrating 
on 
economic 
development,  with  a  main  emphasis  on  significantly 
improving  the  people’s  livelihood.  We  are  achieving 
unprecedented  and  remarkable  success.  Our  economic 
development  in  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea  will  make  a  meaningful  contribution  to  the 
efforts  of 
to  foster 
regional  development  and  to  attain  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 
international  community 
People’s  Republic 
all 
its 
resources 
the 
11-51681 

11 

A/66/PV.29 


In that context, a stable and peaceful environment 
is  a  vital  prerequisite  for  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea and its people today in their struggle 
for economic development. To our regret, however, the 
Korean peninsula does not yet have with a lasting and 
stable peace mechanism. The national division imposed 
by  outside  forces  and  the  fragile  armistice  that  leaves 
us in a state of neither war nor peace have now been in 
place  for  more  than  half  a  century.  That  is  the  stark 
reality of the Korean peninsula. 

Despite the unanimous aspirations and desires of 
all the people at home and abroad who want peace and 
stability,  the  arms  build-up  and  nuclear  war  exercises 
continue  to  be  staged  one  after  another  against  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea in and around 
the  Korean  peninsula.  Because  of  that,  there  is  a 
constant  recurrence  of  a  dangerous  situation  on  the 
Korean  peninsula,  which  is  often  driven  to  a  brink  of 
war.  

The  prevailing  situation  not  only  poses  a  grave 
threat  to  the  sovereignty  and  security  of  our  Republic 
but  also  obstructs  the  efforts  of  our  people  to  achieve 
peaceful development. Had it not been for the Songun 
ideology  implemented  by  the  great  leader  of  our 
people,  General  Kim  Jong  Il,  and  had  it  not  been  for 
our  powerful  war  deterrent,  the  Korean  peninsula 
would have been turned into a theatre of war scores of 
times  and  our  peaceful  economic  development  would 
have been unimaginable. 

The  Government  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  remains  consistent  in  its  stand  to 
secure  peace  and  stability  and  move  towards  the 
denuclearization  of  the  Korean  peninsula  through 
dialogue and negotiation. The present circumstances of 
the  Korean  peninsula  require  all  parties  concerned  to 
seize the opportunity for dialogue and take courageous 
decisions  to  act  boldly  on  solving  the  fundamental 
issues. 

The continued existence of the tense situation on 
the  Korean  peninsula  is  attributable  to  the  hostile 
relations between the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea  and  the  United  States,  which  give  rise  to 
mistrust  and  confrontation. As  long  as  hostility  exists 
between  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
and  the  United  States,  with  the  parties  to  the  Military 
Armistice  Agreement  levelling  guns  at  each  other, 
mistrust  and  confrontation  will  not  dissipate  and  the 
the 
thirtieth  session  of 
denuclearization  of  the  Korean  peninsula  will  not  be 
possible. 

It  was  with  that  in  mind  that  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea proposed again last year to 
hold talks  for replacing the Armistice Agreement with 
a  peace  agreement. The  signing  of  a  peace  agreement 
as  part  of  implementing  resolution  3390  (XXX), 
adopted  at 
the  General 
Assembly  in  1975,  would  be  the  most  effective 
confidence-building  measure  towards  alleviating  the 
mistrust between the Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea  and  the  United  States,  and  would  further  serve 
as a driving force for ensuring the denuclearization of 
the Korean peninsula. 

Denuclearization  of  the  whole  Korean  peninsula 
was the last instruction given by the great leader of the 
Korean  people,  President  Kim 
Il  Sung.  The 
denuclearization  of  the  Korean  peninsula  specified  in 
the Joint Statement of 19 September 2005 is a process 
of  turning  the  whole  Korean  peninsula  into  a  nuclear-
free  zone  based  on  complete  removal  in  a  verifiable 
manner  of  the  actual  nuclear  threat  to  the  Korean 
peninsula from the outside. 

The issue of denuclearizing the Korean peninsula 
originated,  for  all  intents  and  purposes,  from  the 
hostile  policy  and  nuclear  war  threats  of  the  United 
States  against  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea.  Such  being  the  case,  the  United  States  is  the 
main  party  that  is  responsible  for  and  capable  of 
removing  the  root  cause  of  the  problem.  The  nuclear 
issue would never have been raised at all, if the United 
States  had  refrained  from  deploying  nuclear  weapons 
in 
the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  with  nuclear 
arms. 

Under  the  present  circumstances,  in  which  the 
Korean  peninsula  stands  at  the  crossroad  of  either  a 
relaxation  of  tension  or  a  continuation  of  the  vicious 
cycle  of  aggravation  of  tension,  the  United  States 
should  boldly  abandon  its  hostile  policy  against  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and  move 
towards  full-fledged  dialogue,  proceeding  from  its 
long-term  strategic  vision.  The  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  will  make  strenuous  efforts  in  the 
future  as  well  to  establish  a  durable  and  lasting  peace 
mechanism on the Korean peninsula and will continue 
to 
concerned 
for 
unconditional resumption of the Six-Party Talks. 
the  Korean  peninsula  and 
cooperate  with 
threatening 
all  parties 
12 

11-51681 
and 
confrontation  with 
the  North  and 
June  15  North-South 
the  Korean  peninsula  since 
the 


Inter-Korean  relations  have  been  developing 

the 
favourably  on 
publication  of 
Joint 
Declaration.  However,  it  is  extremely  unfortunate  that 
North-South  relations  have  now  been  aggravated  to 
their worst state ever, with a widespread atmosphere of 
warmongering 
fellow 
countrymen, after the current South Korean authorities 
took office. There is a serious problem behind all that, 
the issue of fundamental contradictions and antagonism 
in the approach towards the reunification of the Korean 
peninsula. 

Different  ideas  and  systems  exist  now  in  the 
North  and  the  South  of  Korea.  Given  that  reality,  the 
choice of method of reunification is itself a vital issue 
that  will  lead  either  to  national  reunification  or  to 
national  disaster.  The  North  and  the  South  of  Korea, 
through  the  June  15  North-South  Joint  Declaration  of 
2000,  recognized  that  there  is  common  ground  in  the 
federal  formula  proposed  by 
the 
confederal one proposed by the South for reunification, 
and  agreed  to  orient  the  reunification  along  this 
direction in the future. 

That agreement between the North and the South 
enjoyed  warm  support  and  was  welcomed  by  our 
fellow  countrymen  and  the  international  community, 
including  the  United  Nations.  But  the  present  South 
Korean authorities reneged on the June 15 North-South 
Joint  Declaration  on  the  agreed  reunification  method 
and  came  up  with  what  they  called  the  theory  of 
unification  through  absorption,  which  presupposes  the 
collapse  of  the  other  party,  and  thus  put  inter-Korean 
relations  into  a  phase  of  touch-and-go  confrontation 
and increased the danger of war with each passing day. 

In  view  of  the  prevailing  reality  of  the  Korean 
peninsula, the so called unification through absorption 
is a road to war, whereas the federal formula is a road 
to peace. The federal formula is a realistic proposal for 
reunification  premised  on  coexistence  and  the  best 
possible method of reunification able to prevent war. It 
is  also  a  reasonable  proposal  for  reunification  that 
accords  with  the  interests  of  the  region  and  the 
neighbouring countries, as it presupposes the neutrality 
of the reunified State. 

If the present South Korean authorities truly want 
to  see  the  relaxation  of  tensions  in  the  Korean 
peninsula  and  an 
inter-Korean 
relations,  they  should  abandon  their  confrontational 
improvement 
in 
A/66/PV.29
attitude against peace and reunification and switch over 
to  a  policy  of  respecting  and  fully  implementing  the 
15 June  Joint  Declaration  and  4  October  Declaration, 
agreed  at  the  summit  level  between  the  North  and  the 
South. 

The Democratic People’s Republic of Korea will, 
in  the  future,  further  strengthen  and  develop  friendly 
and  cooperative  relations  with  all  United  Nations 
Member  States,  in  accordance  with  its  foreign  policy 
principles  of  independence,  peace  and  friendship,  and 
will do its level best to defend peace and security in the 
Korean  peninsula  and  in  the  rest  of  the  world  and  to 
promote joint development and the common prosperity 
of all humankind. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Doru  Romulus  Costea,  Deputy 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Romania. 
Mr. Costea (Romania) (spoke in French): At the 

outset, allow me to convey my sincere congratulations 
to the President on his election to the presidency of the 
General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session. I wish him 
every success in his endeavours and assure him of the 
Romanian delegation’s full support. 

Clearly,  the  theme  chosen  for  this  year’s  general 
debate,  “The  role  of  mediation  in  the  settlement  of 
disputes by peaceful means”, is both wise and topical. 
Romania  has  a  strong  interest  in  the  topic,  given  our 
long  tradition  of  mediation,  as  well  as  the  number  of 
unresolved conflicts in our region. Some conflicts have 
persisted  for  years  and  even  decades  and  remain 
unresolved.  Other  conflicts  have  erupted  suddenly, 
scotching  the  hopes  for  a  brighter  future  and  for  the 
development of entire regions.  

In  the  current  security  environment,  mediation 
and  conflict  prevention 
instruments  are  highly 
important,  yet  under-utilized.  A  strengthened  legal 
foundation  for  mediation  and  strengthened  mediation 
activities  of  the  United  Nations  and  regional  and 
subregional organizations are necessary, as well as the 
increased  involvement  of  Member  States  in  mediation 
efforts. 

We must continue at all times to be guided by the 
fact that mediation for peace and conflict-prevention at 
an  early  stage  are  much  more  beneficial  than  crisis 
management  and  peacekeeping.  To  that  end,  we  urge 
the  reporting  and  periodic  evaluation  of  any  and  all 
conflict situations, anywhere in the world and without 
11-51681 

13 

of 
the 
importance 
The  protracted  conflicts 
to  achieving  peaceful  solutions  within 
A/66/PV.29 

regard  to  context,  by  the  Security  Council  and  by  all 
United Nations Member States. 
(spoke in English) 
in  Eastern  Europe 

to  require  our  undivided  attention.  We 
continue 
reiterate 
the 
international 
community’s  continued  involvement  with  them  with  a 
view 
the 
existing regulatory frameworks. We  continue to attach 
great  importance  to  dialogue  between  the  parties  in 
order  to  achieve  mutually  acceptable  solutions  based 
on  respect  for  the  sovereignty,  independence  and 
territorial integrity of States within their internationally 
recognized borders. 
In  that  context,  we  welcome  the  opening  of 

dialogue  between  Belgrade  and  Pristina,  facilitated  by 
the  European  Union  (EU)  following  the  resolution 
adopted  in  2010  by  the  General Assembly  (resolution 
64/298),  and  reiterate  the  central  role  of  the  United 
Nations  and 
the  framework  of  Security  Council 
resolution 1244 (1999). Recent problems have yet to be 
overcome  through  cooperation,  although  the  dialogue 
remains on track. 

We  support  the  Geneva  talks  co-chaired  by  the 
United  Nations,  the  EU  and  the  Organization  for 
Security and Cooperation in Europe on the situation in 
Abkhazia  and  South  Ossetia.  Progress  on 
the 
humanitarian  situation  should  not  be  held  hostage  to 
political  setbacks,  and  urgent  solutions  are 
thus 
necessary to address that situation. 

With  regard  to  Afghanistan,  we  are  witnessing 
progress in the Afghan authorities’ gradual takeover of 
responsibility  in  the  fields  of  security,  reconstruction 
and  socio-economic  development.  We  welcome  the 
steps  taken  by  the Afghan Administration  for  national 
reconciliation.  We  trust  that  a  rigid  framework  with 
fixed time lines for the transition period is unnecessary. 
Instead,  the  transition  process  should  be  tailored 
according  to  the  particular  realities  and  conditions 
required for the normal functioning of Afghan society. 

Romania  considers  that  progress  in  Afghanistan 
also depends on the efforts of the authorities in Kabul 
and  the  continued  commitment  of  the  international 
community.  In  that  context,  we  welcome  the  role  and 
efforts  of  the  United  Nations,  other  international 
organizations  and  Member  States  and 
reaffirm 
is 
favours 
chairing 
conflict.  Romania 
to  building  democratic 
Romania’s 
commitment 
institutions in Afghanistan. 

I take this opportunity to pay tribute to the valiant 
women  and  men  who  serve  the  cause  of  peace 
worldwide. Many of them, including Romanians, have 
lost their lives or were wounded on mission. We extend 
our deepest gratitude and respect for their sacrifice.  
Recently, important statements were issued on the 

Israeli-Palestinian 
a 
sustainable  peace  in the  Middle East,  and our  country 
strongly  supports  the  principle  of  two  States  —  Israel 
and Palestine — living together, side by side, in peace 
and  security.  The  only  viable  solution  that  could  be 
effectively applied to that case and form the basis of a 
global  and  sustainable  peace  would  be  through  direct 
negotiations.  Romania 
the  Fourth 
Committee  during  this  session,  and  we  are  ready  to 
encourage,  from  that  position  as  well,  all  diplomatic 
efforts  aiming  at  achieving  progress  in  the  Israeli-
Palestinian peace process. 

This  year’s  General  Assembly  session  is  taking 
place  under  the  powerful  image  of  the  tremendous 
political  transformations  in  North  Africa  and  the 
Middle  East.  Romania  warmly  welcomes 
those 
transformations.  What  has  become  known  by  now  as 
the  Arab  Spring  recalls  in  our  minds  and  hearts  the 
events  that  took  place  more  than  20  years  ago  in  our 
part of the world. Twenty years later, we are proud of 
our  accomplishments  on  the  path  of  democracy-
building. Yet  we  know,  first  hand,  that  the  journey  is 
difficult 
sometimes  daunting,  with  many 
challenges lying ahead, not the least among them is the 
fact  that  the  political  forces  in  those  countries  must 
remain  focused  on  their  goals  of  freedom,  democracy 
and justice that inspired them at the very beginning. 

Therefore, one of Romania’s priorities is to assist 
the  countries  in  transition  in  North  Africa  and  the 
Middle  East  in  their  democratic  quest.  Romania  is 
already  supporting  democratization  in  its  proximate 
regions 
and  beyond.  Currently,  most  of  our 
development assistance funds are dedicated to building 
democratic  institutions,  consolidating  the  rule  of  law 
and  protecting  and  promoting  human  rights  and 
fundamental freedoms. 

In July in Bucharest we convened an international 
workshop  on  electoral  and  political  matters  pertaining 
to  democratic  transition.  The  event  was  organized  in 
partnership  with  the  United  Nations  Development 
and 
14 

11-51681 
that 
the 
believes 
first  electoral  cycles 


Programme,  the  Electoral  Assistance  Division  of  the 
United  Nations  Secretariat  in  New  York  and  the 
Permanent  Electoral  Authority  of  Romania.  The 
workshop  was  attended  by  over  40  participants  from 
Egypt  and Tunisia  who  represented  public  institutions 
involved  in  organizing  elections,  the  media,  civil 
society  and  academic  circles  and  Romanian  and 
international  experts.  The  seminar  focused  on  sharing 
experiences  with 
in  post-
authoritarian regimes as foundational moments for new 
democratic  societies  through  credible,  transparent  and 
free elections.  

political 
Romania 
transformations occurring in Tunisia, Egypt, Libya and 
elsewhere  should  be  endorsed  and  supported  by  the 
United  Nations  with  all  available  resources.  It  is  our 
collective  responsibility  to  see  to  it  that  the  proper 
conditions for human dignity and prosperity are set up 
in  all  our  countries  and  that  progress  in  the  quest  for 
fundamental  freedoms  and  equal  rights  for  all  human 
beings is supported. That is part of Romania’s mandate 
as  a  newly  elected  member  in  the  Human  Rights 
Council,  a  mandate  we  intend  to  implement  in  a 
constructive, balanced and comprehensive manner. 
Although  human  rights  are  fundamental  rights, 

the  current  situation 
is  far  from 
satisfactory. Human rights and democracy are universal 
values 
require  our  constant  attention  and 
protection  against  any  repressive  actions.  In  that 
respect,  the  legitimate  and  peaceful  demands  by  the 
people of North Africa and Middle East for respect for 
their human rights and liberty are emblematic. 

We  reaffirm  our  will  to  act  in  cooperation  with 
partners  to  achieve  a  global  and  coherent  approach 
towards the risks and threats to international peace and 
security, 
the 
proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction  and 
conventional weapons. The best way to reduce the risks 
of the use of  nuclear  arms  and materials, in particular 
by non-State actors, is to irreversibly eliminate nuclear 
arsenals 
for 
non-proliferation. We  support  and  call  on  all  States  to 
consider 
responsible 
involvement in this area and to focus on global security 
interests above all. 

We  are  all  familiar  with  the  current  multilateral 
framework that governs non-proliferation, disarmament 
and  arms  control.  All  treaties  and  conventions  have 
undertaking 
particularly 
the  world 
framework 
long-term 
arising 
a 
strict 
and 
apply 
those 
from 
in 
that 
A/66/PV.29
on 
themes  of 
Conference 
the  objectives  and 
Climate  change  should  continue 
proved  their  usefulness  so  far. Yet,  more  is  needed  so 
as  to  increase  the  effectively  of  their  implementation 
and the degree to which their provisions are observed. 
We stand ready to work with others to achieve this key 
objective for the global security architecture. 

Romania reiterates its commitment to continuing 
its active engagement in the preparatory process for the 
United  Nations 
Sustainable 
transparent 
Development.  Pursuing  an  open  and 
dialogue  on 
the 
Conference  during  the  current  session  is  one  of  the 
main steps that will help guide our actions. 

The Conference will be a unique occasion for the 
international  community  to  place  humanity  on  a  path 
towards sustainable development and the eradication of 
poverty, and, in that context, to establish a clear vision 
of the green economy. Economic growth and the need 
to promote transition towards a green economy must be 
considered  opportunities  to  make  more  with  less, 
aiming  for  a  higher  standard  of  living  and  social 
equality for all. 

to  be  a 
mobilizing  factor  despite  the  obvious  obstacles.  We 
should  not  let  differences  and  the  high  complexity  of 
interests 
The 
negotiations  in  Durban,  based  on  the  decisions  of 
Cancún  and  the  Copenhagen Accord,  should  pave  the 
way  towards  a  swift  adoption  of  a  post-Kyoto  global 
regime. 

A  clear  and  present  challenge  is  that,  while  we 
are trying to set the world on a path of sustainable and 
equitable growth, we have to cope with one of the most 
severe economic and financial crises of modern times. 
The  crisis,  which  still  wreaks  havoc  on  international 
affairs, has revealed the vulnerabilities of our financial 
and economic systems, both national and international. 
It has become evident that the world financial system is 
not  adapted  to  the  realities  of  global  competition. 
Indeed,  the  entire  system  of  economic  and  financial 
governance needs to be revised, and budgets, including 
that of the United Nations, need to be kept under strict 
control. 
In  times  of  crisis,  options  are  limited.  We  can 

dwell  in  endless  debates  on  “what  should  have  been 
done”  or  “what  might  have  been”.  But  this  is  not  the 
time  for  such  debates;  rather,  it  is  the  time  to  act. As 
the  President  of  the  European  Council  said  the  other 
day in the Hall, “We act, supporting the forces of hope 
determination. 
undermine 
our 
11-51681 

15 

Mr.  Álvarez  de  Soto  (Panama)  (spoke 
A/66/PV.29 

and  fighting  the  causes  of  worry”  (See  A/66/PV.15). 
We stand by this option. Reforms are needed that lead 
to  the  comprehensive  observance  of  good  governance 
principles, human rights and fundamental freedoms, as 
well as the wise use of available resources. That is the 
only  option.  A  country  without  equal  and  dignified 
citizens can never be rich. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His Excellency Mr. Francisco Álvarez de Soto, Deputy 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of 
the  Republic  of 
Panama. 
in 

Spanish):  It  is  an  honour  for  me  to  address  the 
international  community,  first  of  all,  to  express  the 
pleasure of the Government of the Republic of Panama 
at the election of His Excellency Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser  as  President  of  the  General Assembly  at  its 
sixty-sixth session. 
The  delegation  of  Panama  is  gratified  by  the 

holding  of  the  general  debate  in  the  presence  of  the 
Secretary-General  and  representatives  of  the  different 
Member  States,  Observers  and  organizations.  We 
would like to congratulate the President of the General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session  for  his  excellent 
work. 

President  Al-Nasser  has  invited  us  to  focus  this 
debate  on  strengthening  the  role  of  mediation  in  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes, conflict prevention and 
resolution. The  importance  of  this  theme  invites  us  to 
deeply  reflect  on  its  multiple  dimensions,  given  that 
mediation is an essential instrument in the preservation 
of international peace and security. 

Panama is a multi-ethnic country where people of 
different  races,  cultures,  creeds  and  languages  coexist 
in  harmony  and 
love  of 
representative  democracy,  independence  and  respect 
for the sovereignty, ideology and territorial integrity of 
all  countries  are  inalienable  specific  qualities  that 
define us as a nation. 

In  our  view,  and  as  a  founding  member  of  the 
United  Nations,  Panama  will  always  advocate  for 
international  peace  and  security,  the  promotion  of 
dialogue  among  Member  States,  the  strengthening  of 
multilateral  dynamics  and  facilitating  the  mission  of 
the United Nations. That is largely due to experiences 
accumulated  during  the  course  of  the  diplomatic 
history  of  our  country.  More  than  three  decades  ago, 
freedom,  and  where 
In 
It 
in 
this 
noble 
success 
for 
this 
the  1980s, 
for a second and last time, the Security Council held an 
extraordinary  session  away  from  Headquarters,  with 
the  purpose  of  politically  mediating  the  dispute  over 
the  sovereignty  of  Panama  over  its  Canal  and  the 
territories adjacent to the Canal Zone, controlled at that 
time  by  the  United  States  of America,  which  was  the 
platform that launched the Panamanian cause onto the 
international stage. 
It  was  the  joint  will  and  intervention  of  the 

members  of 
illustrious  General  Assembly, 
demonstrated in its historic resolution 31/143, of 1976, 
which  to  a  great  extent  inspired  the  signing  of  the 
Treaties  between  Panama  and  the  United  States  in 
1977.  Nowadays,  the  Panama  Canal,  fully  under  our 
sovereign authority, is one of the most important  axes 
of  our  economic  development,  supervised  by  a 
Panamanian  administration,  for  the  benefit  of  all 
nations.  Panamanians  will  always  be  grateful  to  the 
United  Nations 
of 
multilateralism. 

the  Contadora  Group  was 
established in Panama as a mechanism for multilateral 
mediation. 
forged  a  Latin  American  alliance 
committed  to  democracy,  economic  cooperation  and 
regional  security  and  led  to  the  Esquipulas  peace 
agreement  —  an  overarching  advance 
the 
consolidation  of  peace 
in  Central  America.  The 
Contadora  Group  was  the  predecessor  of  the  Rio 
Group,  which  is  today  an  important  mechanism  for 
consultation and coordination in Latin America. 

When  our  democracy  was  restored  in  the  early 
1990s,  with 
the  United  Nations 
Development  Programme,  we  as  a  nation  initiated 
sustained  consultations  among  the  principal  actors  of 
Government and civil society in order to strengthen our 
administrative  institutions,  secure  the  return  of  the 
Panama  Canal  to  Panama,  overcome  asymmetries  in 
our  country,  and  identify  strategies  to  accomplish  our 
development priorities. 

During  the  past  two  decades,  our  culture  of 
dialogue has given us the skills necessary to transform 
our country into a democratic and dynamic society that 
is  progressing  at  a  steady  pace  under  the  current 
Administration  of  the  President  of  the  Republic, 
Ricardo Martinelli Berrocal. 

As a result, Panama is now considered the second 
most competitive economy in Latin America, according 
to the World Economic Forum classification system, in 
the  support  of 
16 

11-51681 
to 
in 
the  area  of 
faced  by 
the 


view of our first-class financial system, our ports, our 
high-quality multimodal logistics infrastructure and our 
efficient  technology  —  all  of  this  in  an  environment 
that is open to business and generates global interest in 
foreign direct investment. 
Our  robust  prospects  for  economic  growth  and 

our  effective  management  of  public  debt, 
in 
combination  with  continuous,  adequate  and  careful 
financial discipline, have been the determining factors 
in our recently achieved investment grade with a stable 
outlook,  according 
the  major  rating  agencies. 
Likewise,  we  have  begun  to  implement  an  active 
cooperation  agenda 
information 
exchange and fiscal transparency. We have adopted all 
of  the  measures  suggested,  which  have  enabled  us  to 
comply with the recommendations of the Organization 
for  Economic  Cooperation  and  Development  in  this 
respect. However, this journey to success has not been 
easy, and many future challenges remain. 
I believe that all of those here today will take on 

the  main  challenges 
international 
community  in  the  process  of  achieving  a  coherent 
restructuring  of  the  world  economy  and  the  reform  of 
its  institutions  and  oversight  mechanisms.  Panama  is 
fully  aware  of  this  need,  and  our  international  agenda 
requires  us 
the  major 
multilateral mechanisms and economic and commercial 
integration  forums  in  the  areas  of  investment,  tourism 
and technology, for the benefit of our citizens. Panama 
believes  that  such  efforts  must  be  promoted  without 
delay  by  the  major  economies  if  we  truly  wish  to 
overcome the turbulence in international markets. 

Our  country  also  believes  that  to  ensure  a 
favourable  economic  climate,  domestic  conflicts  must 
be  prevented.  This  depends  on, 
the 
effectiveness of the democratic regime, public security, 
respect  for  human  rights,  the  responsible  management 
of  natural  resources,  tolerance,  access  to  health-care 
and  sanitation  services,  the  affordability  of  basic 
goods,  good  governance,  and  inclusive  and  balanced 
development. 

We  in  Panama,  after  living  for  21  years  under  a 
military  dictatorship  —  until  1989  —  have  made  a 
strong  commitment  to  democracy  as  a  means  of 
peacefully  resolving  the  disputes  that  arise  in  our 
society.  The 
that 
dictatorship have led us to speak out unequivocally, in 
bilateral  and  multilateral  forums,  in  favour  of  the 
to  participate  actively 
suffered  under 
experiences 
in 
inter  alia, 
11-51681 

A/66/PV.29
strengthening  or  re-establishment  of  the  effectiveness 
of democratic institutions wherever necessary. This has 
led  us  to  clearly  express  our  position  in  defence  of 
democracy in cases such as those involving Honduras, 
the  failed  coup  attempt  in  Ecuador,  and  the  Arab 
Spring,  which  brought  the  winds  of  freedom  to  that 
region of the world. 

The  duty  to  resolve  disputes  that  give  rise  to 
international  conflicts  lies  primarily  with  those  States 
whose  disagreements  have  generated  the  conflicts  in 
question.  Nevertheless,  the  United  Nations,  as  the 
epicentre  of  global  diplomacy,  must 
increasingly 
perfect  the  art  of  mediation  as  a  means  of  resolving 
international disputes. We can never forget that this is a 
fundamental  principle  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  enshrined  in  its Article  33  —  a  mandate  that 
has  resulted  in  many  accomplishments  around  the 
world,  where  wisdom,  mutual  understanding  and 
agreement  have  prevailed  over  aggression,  hate  and 
destruction. 

Mediation and dialogue have formed the basis of 
the  stand  that  Panama  has  taken  in  connection  with 
conflicts that have a bearing on peace and international 
political stability. Allow me to point out in that respect 
that  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of  Panama 
believes that the Palestinian people have the right to be 
recognized  as  a  State,  but  that  they  must  first  resolve 
their differences with their neighbour Israel, which also 
has  the  right  to  peaceful  and  harmonious  coexistence 
with Palestine and the other States of the region. There 
could be no better solution than one that emerges from 
direct  negotiations  between  Israel  and  the  Palestinian 
National Authority. 

We also trust in the outcome of dialogue between 
the  parties  in  the  case  of  China.  Panama,  with  full 
respect  for  the  existing  diplomatic  truce,  calls  for 
greater participation by Taiwan in international forums 
and initiatives, in recognition of the fact that its people 
wish  to  contribute  to  the  pursuit  of  global  peace  and 
well-being. 

For  that  reason,  and  given  the  relevance  of  this 
important provision of international law, we invite the 
Secretary-General  and  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly to continue to promote and enhance the role 
of  mediation  as  a  viable  strategy  for  the  peaceful 
resolution of disputes. 
However,  for  the  United  Nations  system  to 

continue  its  effective  peace  mediation  activities,  each 
17 

is 
an 
for 
the 
transparent 
comprehensive, 
community  marked 
resources.  This  call 
A/66/PV.29 

Member  State  must  honour 
commitments 
undertaken,  so  that  the  Organization  can  count  on 
sufficient 
international 
cooperation  is  particularly  relevant  in  these  times  of 
budgetary constraints in many countries, and given that 
aggressive  competition  for  scarce  resources  is  one  of 
the primary causes of armed conflicts. 

Panama  is  a  country  with  a  lengthy  and  notable 
history  of  peace  and  conciliation.  In  our  opinion,  the 
best  option  when  faced  with  the  threat  of  armed 
conflict 
and 
unconditional diplomatic dialogue between the parties. 
We  welcome  the  fact  that  in  July  2011  the 

international 
important 
milestone  along  the  path  to  a  collective  security 
architecture  through  the  unanimous  adoption  of  a 
resolution entitled “Strengthening the role of mediation 
in 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  conflict 
prevention  and  resolution”  (resolution  65/283).  That 
consensus  represents  the  victory  of  reason  over  the 
absurd  and  harmful  option  of  confrontation.  The 
international  community  has  seen  clearly  the  major 
advantages  of  investing  in  a  concerted  effort  to 
consolidate  peace  before  it  becomes  necessary  to 
contain  the  human  tragedies  resulting  from  violent 
conflicts,  as  we  have  witnessed  and  are  witnessing  in 
Somalia,  for  instance,  where  hunger,  disease  and 
destruction reign. 

Human history has taught us that hunger, poverty, 
ignorance,  injustice  and  social  inequality  give  rise  to 
the  greatest  threats  to  peace  and  security.  If  we,  the 
States  Members  of 
remain 
determined  to  save  succeeding  generations  from  the 
scourge of war, we must opt for proactively ensuring a 
peace  that  is  based  not  on  action  taken  in  reaction  to 
political or military acts of aggression, but on faith in 
and guarantees of universal and equal human rights in 
all corners of the world. 

As we believe in the valuable role that the United 
Nations  should  play,  Panama  is  very  proud  to  share 
with  this  Assembly  the  fact  that  the  Government  of 
President Ricardo Martinelli proposed the creation of a 
United Nations Regional Centre for Latin America and 
the  Caribbean,  with 
strengthening 
coordination and dialogue among regional agencies, in 
particular 
the  16  United  Nations  bodies  already 
established  in  Panama.  The  national  Government  will 
finance  the  project,  which  will  be  a  unique  model  of 
the  United  Nations, 
the  aim  of 
in 
practices 
sustainable 
to  expedite 
implementing 
best 
development in Latin America and the world. 

In  the  past  decade,  our  country’s  privileged 
geographic  position  and  the  logistical  infrastructure 
that  Panama  City  offers  has  attracted  various 
humanitarian  aid  organizations.  That  has 
also 
encouraged  Panama  to  promote  the  construction  of  a 
regional humanitarian assistance logistics centre for the 
Americas. The regional centre will have the necessary 
agreements 
the  entry  and  exit  of 
humanitarian aid in order to help in the event of natural 
or  other  disasters,  such  as  occurred  last  year  in  Haiti, 
where  the  international  humanitarian  agenda  is  still 
very necessary.  

With such projects, we reiterate our commitment 
to  the  multilateral  system  and  to  the  United  Nations 
Organization,  and  show  that,  as  small  lower-middle 
income  developing  countries,  we  also  provide 
international  cooperation,  even 
in  such 
times  of 
economic difficulty for the large economies. 

Nor  does  Panama  wish  to  miss  the  opportunity 
before  the  Assembly  to  call  for  reflection  on  the 
environmental,  political  and  social  challenges  that  all 
our  societies  face  and  that  we  must  overcome,  once 
again, through dialogue and cooperation among States 
in an effort to address those global challenges.  
Without a doubt, one of those great challenges is 

that  posed  by  climate  change  and  its  effects.  Climate 
change  is  a  priority  of  my  country’s  foreign  policy  at 
the  environmental  level.  We  are  committed  to  all 
efforts 
international 
environmental organizations and to the struggle to find 
joint  solutions  to  the  causes  and  effects  of  that 
phenomenon. 

As part of our support to the Organization’s own 
initiatives  and  for  the  benefit  of  the  international 
community,  we  will  host  the  meeting  of  the  ad  hoc 
working  groups  of  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention  on  Climate  Change,  soon  to  take  place  in 
Durban, South Africa. Those working groups will meet 
in Panama from 1 to 7 October in order to advance the 
modalities  for  a  second  commitment  period  of  carbon 
emission  reductions  by  developed  countries  and  for 
stabilization  of  the  global  temperature  so  as  to  make 
the  Framework 
progress 
in 
Convention 
cooperation 
mechanisms. 
fully 
through 
implementing 
strengthening 
long-term 
aimed 
at 
18 

11-51681 
hate, 
intolerance 
discrimination, 
transparent  and  ambitious  goals.  Also, 
In  conclusion,  as  the  Secretary-General  rightly 



Panama  hopes  that  the  meeting  will  serve  as  a 
bridge  between  the  results  obtained  in  the  Mexico 
meeting and those that may emerge in the one that will 
take place in  South Africa, since it is necessary to set 
clear, 
the 
political will of developed countries in the matter must 
be  reaffirmed,  as  they  have  the  primary  responsibility 
under the Convention. 

stated in his opening address to the general debate:  

“Saving  our  planet,  lifting  people  out  of  poverty 
and advancing economic growth — those are one 
and the same fight.” (A/66/PV.11, p. 1) 

That  is  why  Panama,  once  again  and  before  the 
General  Assembly,  renews  its  commitment  to  the 
community of nations to work for a world where war, 
sectarian 
and 
destruction waged under different flags and creeds that, 
without  any  justification,  generate  only  poverty  and 
misery,  may  finally  be  replaced  by  the  dialogue, 
negotiation, cooperation and friendship stemming from 
differences  that,  on  the  contrary,  have  always  been  a 
source of wealth and well-being for the peoples of the 
world. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His Excellency Mr. Espen Barth Eide, Deputy Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of Norway. 
Mr.  Eide  (Norway):  Since  we  last  met  here, 

major changes have swept through the world. We have 
been  witnessing  the Arab  Spring.  People  are  standing 
up against authoritarian rule and demanding respect for 
the 
this  very 
institution.  Autocrats  who  have  failed  to  offer  the 
prospect  of  a  better  life  in  freedom  and  dignity  have 
been  overthrown.  Now,  popular  calls  for  reform  in 
Syria have been met with a violent response. We urge 
the  Syrian  regime  to  respect  the  people’s  legitimate 
demand for democracy and fundamental human rights. 

In July, a new flag rose in Juba as we celebrated 
the  birth  of  a  new  State.  Last  Friday,  President  Salva 
Kiir of South Sudan addressed us from this podium as 
the 
(see 
A/66/PV.19).  That  became  possible  thanks,  first  and 
foremost,  to  the  vision  and  will  of  the  people  and 
leaders of the Sudan and what is now the Republic of 
South  Sudan.  However,  it  would  not  have  been 
possible without the active support of the international 
leader  of  our  newest  Member  State 
fundamental  values 
that  underpin 
A/66/PV.29
is 
the 
that  peace 
Yet,  we  know 
community.  That  demonstrates 
importance  of 
mediation  and  the  settlement  of  disputes  through 
peaceful means. 

fragile.  The 
international community must coordinate its assistance 
and  align  it  with  the  priorities  of  the  South  Sudanese 
Government.  Outstanding 
issues  must  be  settled 
through negotiations. We must contribute to laying the 
foundation for two viable States, so that they can both 
live in peace. 
In  Côte  d’Ivoire  and  Libya,  the  United  Nations 

has once again proved its worth by addressing some of 
the  most  challenging  situations  in  the  world.  The 
resolve  shown  by  the  Security  Council  on  Libya  has 
reconfirmed  its  pivotal  role  in  global  governance  and 
international  security  —  the  role  that  Member  States 
bestowed  on  it  through  the  United  Nations  Charter. 
There are times when there is no alternative to the use 
of  force.  When  the  Security  Council  acts,  it  is  up  to 
us —  the  Member  States  —  to  put  its  decisions  into 
practice.  Norway’s  active  participation  in  the  military 
campaign 
in  Libya  was,  first  and  foremost,  an 
expression of our belief in a United Nations-led world 
order  and  in  the  principle  of  the  responsibility  to 
protect. 

The  response  to  Libya  was  also  a  landmark  in 
terms of international justice. For the very first time, a 
unanimous  Security  Council  chose  to  refer  possible 
crimes  against  humanity  to  the  International  Criminal 
Court.  Combating  impunity  and  promoting  the  rule  of 
law  and  fundamental  human  rights  are  key  to  the 
prevention of conflict and the protection of civilians. 

Promoting  and  strengthening  human  rights  and 
gender equality are a common responsibility. Failing to 
adhere  to  universally  agreed  principles  in  that  area  is 
simply 
and 
empowerment  of  girls  and  women  so  that  they  can 
participate fully in the political and economic lives of 
States  are  also  essential  for  economic  growth  and 
prosperity.  There  is  fundamental  evidence  that  States 
that  fail  on  that  account  and  continue  repressive  and 
discriminating gender policies will remain poor. 
Last year, we reconfirmed our commitment to the 

Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  agreed 
to 
accelerate  our  efforts.  Last  week,  we  received  new 
evidence of dramatic and positive breakthroughs in our 
quest  to  reduce  child  mortality  and  maternal  deaths. 
leadership,  new  partnerships  and 
Strong  political 
acceptable. 
Investment 
not 
in 
11-51681 

19 

A/66/PV.29 

real 
innovative  ways  of  working  have  brought 
initiative 
progress.  The  Secretary-General’s  global 
“Every  Woman 
and  Every  Child”  has  been 
instrumental in this respect. But further  progress must 
not be taken for granted. Norway will continue to focus 
on women’s rights and promoting the role of women in 
development.  We  will  strongly  oppose  any  efforts  to 
reverse  progress.  We  must  maintain  our  resolve  to 
implement the Beijing Platform for Action. 

The  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 
have proven to be a formidable tool for improving the 
lives  of  millions  of  people.  Yet  much  remains  to  be 
done.  There  are  vast  untapped  resources  within  many 
of  the  countries  that  are  struggling  to  achieve  the 
MDGs. Broadening the tax base, making tax collection 
more  effective,  halting 
illegal  capital  flows  and 
fighting corruption are all measures that must be fully 
used in the fight against poverty. Getting that right will 
also improve the social contract in countries emerging 
from  poverty  or  conflict.  This  is  a  responsibility  that 
lies firmly with individual States.  

With  the  climate  conference  in  Durban  only  two 
months away, we must all play our part in making it a 
success.  Implementation  of  the  Cancun Agreements  is 
crucial.  The  Green  Climate  Fund  must  be  made 
operational. Durban should provide a roadmap that can 
bridge  the  gap  between  Kyoto  and  a  new  and  more 
ambitious  climate  regime  that  includes  all  major 
emitters. 

to 
affordable  and  reliable  electric  power  supplies.  We 
must  combat  climate  change  while  promoting 
development.  The  Secretary-General’s 
for 
sustainable Energy for All is therefore highly welcome. 
Together with partner countries, Norway will launch a 
new  energy  initiative  this  autumn.  The  purpose  is  to 
boost  sustainable  energy  generation  and  accelerate 
change  towards  energy  efficiency.  New  funding  will 
promote  incentives  for  the  energy  sector  in  partner 
countries.  Such  incentives  will  in  turn  attract  fresh 
capital  for  energy  projects.  We  are  determined  to 
ensure  concrete  progress  in  Rio  on  the  access-to-
energy agenda. 

Now,  20  years  after  the  United  Nations  first 
Conference on Sustainable Development, the nations of 
the  world  must  renew  the  partnership  for  sustainable 
development.  Civil  society  and  the  private  sector  are 
crucial  in  this  partnership.  Norway  is  committed  to  a 
Today,  1.4  billion  people 
lack  access 
call 
referred 
to 
issues 
regarding  borders, 
those  declarations 
in  resolution  181  (II) 
the  2012  United  Nations 
successful  outcome  of 
Conference on Sustainable Development. 

Back  in  1947,  Norway  voted  in  favour  of  the 
establishment  of  two  States  in  the  former  mandate  of 
Palestine in this Assembly. In 1949, we also heeded the 
call 
to  give  sympathetic 
consideration  to  an  application  by  either  State  for 
admission  to  membership  in  the  United  Nations.  We 
voted in favour of admitting Israel as a Member State. 
We based our decision at that time on the declarations 
and  explanations  provided  by  the  Israeli  delegation. 
Israel had persuasively explained why recognition and 
the 
membership  should  not  await  resolution  of 
outstanding 
refugees, 
Jerusalem,  and  peace  with  neighbouring  countries. 
When  it  admitted  Israel  as  a  Member  State,  this 
Assembly 
and 
explanations. 

Since then, Norwegian policy has been  based on 
the  vision  of  two  States,  Israel  and  Palestine,  living 
side  by  side  in  peace  and  security.  Norway  has 
consistently  stood  by  Israel  and  its  inherent  right  to 
self-defence  in  accordance  with  international  law.  We 
have  also  supported  the  Palestinian  right  to  statehood 
and the building of the Palestinian Authority. 
One of the main issues before this session of the 

General  Assembly 
for 
recognition.  It  is  legitimate  for  the  Palestinian  people 
to  turn  to  the  United  Nations  under  the  current 
circumstances.  This  is  neither  incompatible  with  a 
negotiation process, nor an expression of unilateralism. 
Norway  welcomes 
the  Quartet  for 
negotiations  on  a  comprehensive  agreement  on  the 
outstanding final status issues to be completed within a 
year. 

However, the situation on the ground is changing 
in  several  ways.  A  few  days  ago,  the  donor  support 
group to the Palestinian Authority affirmed the success 
of 
institution-building.  The  performance  of 
Palestinian  public  institutions  was  scrutinized  by  the 
World  Bank,  the  International  Monetary  Fund  and  the 
United  Nations.  Their  joint  conclusion  was  that  the 
Palestinians are fully capable of running a State. 

On  Friday  President  Abbas  confirmed  his 
commitment  to  resolving  final  status  issues  through 
negotiations.  He  also  assured  us  of  the  Palestinian 
Authority’s commitment to complying with the United 
the  Palestinian  quest 
is 
the  call  by 
local 
20 

11-51681 


Nations  Charter,  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions, 
democracy, the rule of law and human rights. 

The  main  obstacle  to  full  institution-building 
remains  the  occupation.  Measures  taken  under  the 
latter  are  changing  the  shape  of  the  territory  in  the 
West Bank and East Jerusalem in ways that undermine 
negotiations and may soon render the two-State vision 
physically  unattainable.  The  Security  Council,  the 
General  Assembly  and  the  International  Court  of 
Justice have all rejected the legality of such unilateral 
changes. 

Both the Palestinians’ readiness for statehood and 
the  declarations  and  commitments  they  have  made 
should  be  acknowledged.  Norway  looks  forward  to 
welcoming  Palestine  as  a  full  Member  of  the  United 
Nations. 

It  is  vital  that  we  continue  to  improve  and 
strengthen  the  United  Nations,  so  that  it  can  serve  us 
effectively in times of change. We, the Member States, 
have  not  ensured  sufficiently  wide-ranging  reforms. 
We  have  not  equipped  the  United  Nations  with  the 
resources  needed  to  carry  out  the  mandates  we  adopt. 
We  define  noble  objectives,  only  to  undercut  them  in 
the  budgeting  process.  We  continue  to  ask  the  United 
Nations to do more with less. If that is what we want, 
we must give the Secretary-General greater flexibility. 

At  times,  the  vision  of  a  United  Nations  that 
delivers as one is undermined by our own interference 
and insistence on pet projects, earmarking of funds and 
cross-cutting,  awkward  and,  on  occasion,  internally 
conflicting 
requirements. 
Fragmentation does not begin at the United Nations. It 
is a reflection of the priorities and actions of Member 
States. 

Before  I  conclude,  let  me  make  one  last  remark. 
We deeply regret that this podium has once again been 
abused  to  promote  extreme  views  and  unfounded 
allegations.  This  serves  only  to  incite  conflict  rather 
than  to  bridge  differences.  We  will  not  give  up  the 
authority  of  our  presence  in  this  Hall,  but  will  rather 
confront such attitudes from this podium. The purpose 
of  the  general  debate  is  to  draw  attention  to  current 
challenges,  express  and  share  our  views  and  lay  the 
basis for constructive dialogue. 

In  a  rapidly  changing  world,  the  United  Nations 
must  be  able  to  adapt  to  new  challenges,  new  actors 
and  new  geopolitical  realities.  As 
the  Secretary-
reporting 
financial 
A/66/PV.29
General  reminded  us  yesterday,  with  power  comes 
responsibility. After  all,  the  United  Nations  is  only  as 
good as the results it delivers. We are not judged by our 
words, but by our actions. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

Her  Excellency  Ms.  Lucy  Mungoma,  Permanent 
Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of Zambia. 
Ms.  Mungoma  (Zambia):  I  wish,  first  of  all, 

instance  to  extend  my  sincere  congratulations  to  the 
President on his election as President of the sixty-sixth 
session  of  the  General  Assembly.  In  a  similar  vein,  I 
thank  His  Excellency  Joseph  Deiss  for  his  leadership 
of the sixty-fifth session. I also take this opportunity to 
congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  on  his 
reappointment as Secretary-General. 

I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
extend  a  warm  and  hearty  welcome  to  the  community 
of nations to the Republic of South Sudan following its 
independence  on  9  July.  We  commend  both  the 
Governments  of  the  Sudan  and  the  Republic  of  South 
Sudan  for  the  smooth  transition  during  the  handover 
and  takeover  of  power.  Zambia  encourages  the  two 
countries  to  resolve  the  outstanding  issues  between 
them  amicably  and  to  work  towards  maintaining 
peaceful  relations,  as  that  is  the  only  way  to  achieve 
economic and social development. 
The  theme  for  the  sixty-sixth  session  of  the 

General  Assembly,  “The  role  of  mediation  in  the 
settlement of disputes by peaceful means”, is indeed a 
pertinent  one,  considering  the  various  conflicts  across 
the globe that threaten international peace and security. 
The  recent  upheavals  in  North Africa  and  the  Middle 
East  not  only  present  a  new  dimension  to  politics  in 
that region but also highlight the need for mediation to 
avert the outbreak of fighting. 

My delegation wishes to underscore the need for 
the international community to resolve conflicts on the 
African  continent,  including  the  situation  in  Libya, 
within  the  frameworks  established  by  the  African 
Union.  We  believe  that  local  solutions  have  a  higher 
prospect of being respected and accepted by all parties 
to the conflict. 

In  this  regard,  Zambia  aligns  itself  with  the 
mediation efforts put in place by the African Union and 
supports the Roadmap for the Resolution of the Crisis 
in Libya endorsed by the African Union heads of State 
and  Government  at  their  seventeenth  Summit  held  in 
11-51681 

21 

themselves  of  a 
A/66/PV.29 

Malabo,  Equatorial  Guinea,  this  year.  With  regard  to 
Libya, Zambia shares the relief of the Libyan people in 
ridding 
leader  who  committed 
egregious atrocities against his people.  

We must, however, express serious concern about 
new atrocities being committed against black people in 
that country — both citizens and migrants from African 
countries.  We  call  on  this  body  to  send  a  strong 
message  that  it  will  not  only  pursue  perpetrators  of 
such  atrocities  as  vigorously  as  it  did Al-Qadhafi  but 
also undertake to investigate all allegations thoroughly. 
It would be tragic if, in the euphoria of celebrating the 
ousting  of  Al-Qadhafi,  the  United  Nations  turned  a 
blind eye to atrocities still being committed. 

The  Palestinian-Israeli  conflict  continues  to  be  a 
major  concern  to  international  peace  and  security. We 
understand  the  frustrations  of  the  Palestinian  people 
over  the  long  negotiations,  which  have  completely 
stalled in recent years. In that regard, I wish to reaffirm 
that Zambia recognizes the Palestinian State, with pre-
1967  borders  and  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  In  a 
similar vein, Zambia recognizes the State of Israel and 
its right to live in peace with its Palestinian neighbour. 

The  drought  situation  in  the  Horn  of  Africa 
presents  a  humanitarian  emergency  that  threatens  the 
lives of 12 million people. While erratic rainfall in past 
years  is  the  main  cause  of  the  drought,  the  prevalent 
political 
in  Somalia  has 
hampered  that  country’s  ability  to  effectively  respond 
to  the  crisis.  Zambia  has  pledged  to  donate  several 
metric  tons  of  various  food  items  and  cash  from  the 
Government and the private sector.  

The  need  to  address  the  political  instability  and 
violence  in  Somalia  continues  to  be  urgent.  We 
therefore  call  upon  the  United  Nations  to  implement 
the  recommendations  of  the  Special  Representative  of 
the  Secretary-General  for  Somalia,  in  which  he  called 
for the establishment of a United Nations peacekeeping 
mission there. 

Exactly one week ago, on 20 September, general 
elections  took  place  in  my  country.  On  Friday,  three 
days  later,  the  fifth  and  newest  President  of  the 
country,  Mr.  Michael  Chilufya  Sata,  was  inaugurated. 
The  incumbent  President  graciously  conceded  and 
handed over power. It was smooth and peaceful. It was 
a  triumph  for  democracy  in  my  country.  Zambia 
strongly believes in the rule of law and is concerned at 
of 
trends 
instability  and  violence 
unconstitutional 
changes 
towards 
in 
five-year 
national 
countries 
In  2011,  we  expect 
The  political  stability 
support  of  powerful 
to  be  broadly  shared  by 
Government  —  trends  that  in  some  cases  receive  the 
active 
the 
international community. 

that  Zambia  has  and 
continues  to  enjoy  has  had  a  positive  impact  on  the 
economic  development  of  the  country.  Over  the  past 
decade  real  gross  domestic  product  growth  has 
averaged 5.4 per cent. While that growth has reflected 
effective  macroeconomic  management  and  good 
copper prices, it has also been built on the foundation 
of Zambia’s stable political environment and improved 
record  of  governance. 
to 
consolidate  that  strong  performance  with  growth  now 
projected  to  be  above  7  per  cent,  second  only  to  the 
projected  growth  rates  of  9.2  per  cent  for  developing 
Asia and significantly above the projected 5.5 per cent 
growth rate for sub-Saharan Africa. 

Those  economic  trends  notwithstanding,  Zambia 
still  faces  the  challenge  of  translating  its  economic 
growth  into  a  significant  reduction  in  poverty  and  a 
general  improvement  in  the  living  standards  of  its 
citizenry.  It  is  our  intention  for  the  benefits  of 
economic  growth 
the 
population  at  large.  We  hope  to  achieve  that  by 
continuing  to  strengthen  our  governance  institutions, 
maintaining  peace  and  stability  and  ensuring  that  we 
remain open to the opportunities that global trade  and 
the  exchange  of  ideas  and  experiences  offer  to  a 
developing economy. 

The  country’s  economic  development  agenda  is 
guided  by  the  National  Vision,  under  which  Zambia 
aspires  to  be  a  prosperous  middle-income  country  by 
2030.  The  national  agenda  has  been  operationalized 
through 
plans. 
Currently  the  country  is  operating  under  its  Sixth 
National  Development  Plan,  under 
theme 
“Sustained  economic  growth  and  poverty  reduction”. 
With  these  achievements,  Zambia  is  on  course  to 
achieve  five  of  the  eight  targets  of  the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs) by 2011. 

In  four  years  the  MDG  target  date  will  be  upon 
us.  While  Zambia  has  made  notable  progress  towards 
achieving the 2015 MDG targets, particularly in terms 
of  increased  access  to  education,  reduced  maternal, 
infant  and  under-5  mortality  rates  and  child  nutrition, 
those  achievements  risk  being  reversed,  pushing  the 
country  off  track,  owing  to  the  multifaceted  negative 
impacts  of  the  world  economic  recession,  unfulfilled 
development 
the 
22 

11-51681 
Beyond 
the  challenges  posed  by 
from  cooperation  partners.  Under 


commitments  and  ever  diminishing  levels  of  financial 
assistance 
the 
circumstances, many developing countries are unlikely 
to meet the MDG targets. It is therefore important not 
only  that  every  effort  should  be  made  to  assist 
countries stay on track but that we start planning for a 
post-2015 MDG framework. 

infectious 
diseases,  Zambia  is  also  affected  by  the  emerging 
global 
trend  of  non-communicable  diseases.  The 
socio-demographic  and  technological  transition  that 
goes  with  urbanization  and 
industrialization  has 
resulted  in  an  increase  in  non-communicable  diseases 
in  our  country.  I  would  therefore  like  to  commend 
President Al-Nasser for hosting the High-level Meeting 
on  the  Prevention  and  Control  of  Non-Communicable 
Diseases. My delegation is, nevertheless, cautious that 
focusing  on  non-communicable  diseases, 
while 
infectious  diseases,  such  as 
resources  meant  for 
HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and 
tuberculosis,  should  be 
secured,  so  that  the  gains  already  achieved  in  these 
areas are not lost. 
Allow  me  to  express  Zambia’s  gratitude  to  the 

the  High-level 
Secretary-General 
Meeting 
land 
degradation  and  drought  in  the  context  of  sustainable 
development and poverty eradication on 20 September 
2011.  There  is  no  doubt  that  the  United  Nations 
Convention  to  Combat  Desertification  is  the  least 
supported  of  the  three  Rio  Conventions,  the  others 
being  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate  Change  and  the  Convention  on  Biological 
Diversity.  It  is  in  that  light  that  the  convening  of  the 
High-level  Meeting,  as  a  means  of  raising  awareness 
about desertification, land degradation and drought at a 
high level, is most welcome. There is clearly a need for 
concerted  efforts  on  the  part  of  all  Member  States  to 
raise  the  profile  of  the  Desertification  Convention  to 
the level of the other two. 
land 
and 
desertification 

social  and 
degradation  as  a  major  economic, 
environmental  problem 
immediate 
requires 
attention.  It  is  in  that  regard  that  my  country’s  sixth 
national  development  plan,  for  2011  to  2015,  has 
endeavoured to mainstream environmental management in 
general and sustainable land management in particular. 
The challenge now is for Zambia to mobilize adequate 
and  predictable  financial  resources  to  implement  the 
programmes contained in the plan. The mobilization of 
for  organizing 
desertification, 
addressing 
Zambia 
on 
views 
that 
A/66/PV.29
for 
We 
call 
therefore 
the  outcome  decisions  of 
resources  for  implementing  programmes  to  combat 
desertification and mitigate the effects of drought is an 
obligation  shared  by  all  Member  States,  including 
those unaffected by desertification, as is spelled out in 
the Convention, in Agenda 21 and in the Johannesburg 
Plan  of  Implementation  of  the  World  Summit  on 
Sustainable Development, among others.  
judicious 

the 
implementation  of 
the 
recently held High-level Meeting on desertification and 
land  degradation.  We  also  call  on  all  States  to  ensure 
that  adequate  financial  resources  are  available  for 
programmes  aimed  at  combating  desertification  and 
mitigating the effects of drought. 

Turning to the topical subject of climate change, 
whose adverse effects are responsible for exacerbating 
desertification, land degradation and drought, the need 
to put in place a new and dynamic international regime 
for  climate  change  has  never  been  so  urgent.  The 
adverse  effects  of  climate  change  are  being  borne 
disproportionately  by  poor  countries  such  as  my  own. 
The effects of climate change are real and are already 
affecting  our  agriculture,  water,  and  infrastructure,  to 
mention only some sectors. Yet, as we have repeatedly 
said,  it  is  rich  countries  that  are  responsible  for  the 
historic  build-up  of  greenhouse  gases 
in  our 
atmosphere, the problem that has brought about global 
warming  and  climate  change.  The  developed  world 
should  therefore  show  leadership  when  it  comes  to 
agreeing  on  a  new  international  regime  on  climate 
change. 

Zambia looks forward to the forthcoming United 
Nations  Climate  Change  Conference  to  be  held  in 
Durban,  South Africa,  in  December.  We  are  confident 
that  these  talks  will  build  on  the  positive  outcome  of 
the  last  Conference,  held  in  Cancún,  last  December. 
Africa, which is hosting such talks for the first time, is 
determined  to  ensure  a  successful  outcome.  Time  is 
running out and we can no longer afford the luxury of 
inconclusive  talks  each  year. We  call  on  all  parties  to 
commit 
that 
agreement is reached on all outstanding issues so as to 
pave the way for a new climate change regime. We also 
call  for  the  immediate  operationalization  of  all  funds 
the  Climate  Change 
so 
established 
Convention, 
thereby  making 
resources 
accessible to countries in need. 
to  making  progress  and  ensuring 
far  under 
financial 
11-51681 

23 

and 
xenophobia 
discrimination, 
A/66/PV.29 


The  High-level  Meeting  to  commemorate  the 
tenth  anniversary  of  the  adoption  of  the  Durban 
Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action  was  a  timely 
reminder  to  all  nations  to  continue  to  promote  the 
rights of all people regardless of race or creed as equal 
citizens  of  the  world.  Zambia  recommits  itself  to  the 
just  cause  of  fighting  against  any  form  of  racism  or 
racial 
related 
intolerance. 

With  the  year  2012  very  much  in  sight,  Zambia 
hopes  for  a  successful  conclusion  to  negotiations  on 
the  arms  trade  treaty.  A  strong  and  robust  treaty  will 
help  foster  regional  and 
international  peace  and 
security. Zambia also supports an arms trade treaty that 
encompasses  all  conventional  weapons, 
including 
small  arms  and  light  weapons  and  their  ammunition; 
components  of  weapons;  dual-use  equipment  with  a 
military  end-use;  and  arms  production  equipment  and 
technology.  Furthermore,  Zambia  advocates  an  arms 
trade treaty with a broad scope that includes landmines 
and  conventional  weapons  already  covered  by 
international  weapon-specific  agreements,  as  well  as 
technical support. 
Last  Friday  the  President  of  Sierra  Leone,  in  his 

capacity  as  Coordinator  of 
the  African  Union 
Committee of Ten Heads of State on Security Council 
reform,  reminded  the Assembly  of  the  need  to  hasten 
negotiations  on  this  important  issue.  Zambia  aligns 
itself with that statement and sentiment. It is a fact that 
Africa is now one of the largest regions represented in 
the  United  Nations,  with  54  members,  the  same 
number  as Asia.  It  is  also  a  fact  that  three-quarters  of 
the issues on the Security Council’s agenda are African 
issues.  

Unfortunately,  it  is  also  a  fact  that Africa  is  the 
only continent with no representation in the permanent-
membership  category  of  the  Council.  In  addition, 
Africa  is  underrepresented  in  the  non-permanent-
member  category.  Africa’s  request  for  two  permanent 
seats,  with  all  the  rights  and  obligations  of  current 
members, and for two additional non-permanent seats, 
is a matter of justice and the right to have an equal say 
in  the  decision-making  on  issues  that  concern  our 
continent. It is also a matter of democracy. Above all, it 
is  about  the  dignity  of  a  people  and  the  dignity  of  a 
continent. 
to 
for 
and 
interrelated 
complementary 
the  support  and  assistance 
for  his  excellent  management  and 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Alexandru  Cujba,  chair  of  the 
delegation of the Republic of Moldova. 
Mr.  Cujba  (Republic  of  Moldova):  It  is  a  great 

honour and privilege to take part in the general debate 
and  to  represent  my  country  on  this  rostrum  at  a 
significant  juncture  in  Moldova’s  modern  history,  the 
recent  celebration  of  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  its 
independence  and  20  years  of  its  membership  in  the 
United Nations, which we will mark in a few months. 
These 
events 
constitute  an  excellent  opportunity  to  once  again 
express  our  genuine  attachment 
the  founding 
the  Organization,  and  our  sincere 
principles  of 
appreciation 
the 
international  community  has  given  my  country  during 
this time. 

On  behalf  of  my  delegation,  I  have  the  pleasure 
to extend congratulations to His Excellency Mr. Nassir 
Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  on  assuming  his  high  and 
responsible  position,  and  to  join  previous  speakers  in 
expressing our gratitude to His Excellency Mr. Joseph 
Deiss 
the 
competence  he  displayed  during  his  presidency  of  the 
Assembly.  I  would  also  like  to  reiterate  our  sincere 
congratulations to His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon on 
his  reappointment  to  a  second  term  as  Secretary-
General,  to  convey  our  deep  appreciation  for  his 
strenuous  efforts  and  activity  on  behalf  of 
the 
international  community  and  to  wish  him  success  in 
continuing his noble mission. 

The beginning of a new decade of the twenty-first 
century  has  been  marked  by  major  changes,  sincere 
aspirations and high hopes in many parts of our planet. 
We  wholeheartedly  welcome  the  Republic  of  South 
Sudan’s declaration of independence and its entry into 
the  United  Nations  as  the  193rd  Member  State.  We 
have witnessed the genuine desire of young people for 
democratic  reforms  and  human  rights,  fundamental 
freedoms 
the 
Mediterranean  region  and  in  North  Africa  and  the 
Middle  East  have  set  out  firmly  along  the  road  of 
democracy,  launching  the Arab  Spring.  In  that  regard, 
we  recall  the  events  that  changed  Moldova  and 
launched our country on a new, more democratic track 
in 2009. 

In this time of change and historical upheaval, we 
note  the  transition  of  Libya  to  a  new  phase  in  its 
justice.  Peoples 
and 
social 
in 
24 

11-51681 
supported 
the  great 
to  assist 
the 


political  development,  as  stated  expressively  in  the 
Assembly  last  week  by  the  Chairman  of  the  National 
Transitional  Council  Executive  Office  of  Libya  (see 
A/66/PV.22),  whom  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  like 
many  other  delegations, 
as  Libya’s 
representative in the General Assembly. The role of the 
United  Nations  in  supporting  Libya’s  transition  to 
democracy  in  the  wake  of  the  downfall  of  the  former 
regime  has  been 
incremental.  We  express  our 
satisfaction  at  the  Security  Council’s  approval  of  the 
creation  of  a  mission 
transitional 
authorities  and  the  Libyan  people  during  the  critical 
post-conflict phase. 

We  have  also  learned  that  natural  calamities  hit 
nations  indiscriminately.  In  order  to  overcome  the 
consequences of ecological disasters, such as the great 
east Japan earthquake, the Fukushima nuclear accident, 
the  great  flooding  in  Pakistan  and  the  severe  drought 
and hunger in the Horn of Africa, requires the common 
efforts  of  both  developed  and  developing  States.  The 
international  community  has 
task  of 
strengthening  its  humanitarian  and  disaster  response 
capabilities. 

Faced by different challenges, it is commendable 
to have a joint platform of concerted actions, managed 
by  the  United  Nations.  Poverty,  conflicts,  climate 
change,  economic  and  financial  issues,  migration, 
pandemics,  terrorism,  international  crime  and  other 
crises  affecting  humankind  cannot  be  countered 
individually,  but  only  by  means  of  global  strategies. 
The United Nations is a unique tool in addressing and 
overcoming them. 

The United Nations should consolidate its central 
role  in  world  affairs,  and,  consequently,  enhance  its 
multilateral  and  universal  potential  by  making  the 
Organization 
representative, 
efficient  and  able 
to  major 
challenges.  A 
reformed  Organization  must 
pragmatically adapt to new realities and strengthen its 
influence, in strict accordance with the United Nations 
Charter.  The  most 
of 
communication,  consultation  and  cooperation  during 
the  reform  process  should  be  developed,  in  close 
interaction with other actors, such as the private sector, 
civil  society  and  academics,  who  play  a  more  visible 
role in shaping the modern world. 

The  greatest  incentive  for  economic  growth  and 
security  is  a  balanced  and  equitable  global  trade 
appropriate  methods 
to  promptly 
and  more 
stronger 
react 
A/66/PV.29
implementation  of 
system,  for  which  the  international  community  has 
been struggling in complex negotiations since the Doha 
Round  in  2001.  While  talks  on  the  issue  continue, 
discrepancies  and  ruptures  in  our  economies  make  it 
difficult  to  stand  against  the  waves  of  the  economic 
and financial crises. It is hardly possible that countries, 
especially  developing  ones,  remain  immune  to  the 
globalized economic downturn. While we are required 
to  implement  drastic  austerity  measures,  access  to 
markets  is  vital  for  our  economies. That  is  one  of  my 
country’s  priorities.  Our  Government  is  working  hard 
towards  the  extension  and  diversification  of  market 
outlets  in  cooperation  with  its  partners,  primarily  in 
Europe. We rely on openness, a constructive approach 
and  fair  play  in  market  relations  as  our  best  allies  for 
win-win solutions in global trade. 

The Republic of Moldova stands committed to its 
human rights agenda. Last year, my country ratified the 
Convention  on  the  Rights  of  Persons  with  Disabilities 
and  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court,  in  a  sustained  effort  to  contribute  to  the 
development  and 
international 
standards in the fields of human rights and the rule of 
law. 

As  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
Moldova  has  taken  an  active  part  in  the  Council’s 
deliberations and activities, with the aim of building up 
a  strong  and  legitimate  human  rights  body.  This  year, 
Member  States  underwent  the  complex  process  of  the 
Council’s  review.  Although  not  all  the  concerns  of 
Member States were accommodated for  a far-reaching 
and more ambitious outcome of the review, we should 
remain  committed 
the  balanced  and 
objective agenda of the Council, while its membership 
is expected to comply with resolution 60/251 to uphold 
the  highest  standards  in  the  field  of  human  rights  and 
to fully cooperate with the Council’s mechanisms. 

The  Republic  of  Moldova  remains  committed  to 
that principle. In approximately two weeks, my country 
will  engage  in  an  intensive  review  by  the  United 
Nations  Human  Rights  Council  under  the  universal 
periodic  review  mechanism,  involving  not  only  the 
Government  but  also  civil  society  and  other  national 
stakeholders.  We  intend  to  proceed  in  that  exercise 
with  genuine  openness,  objectivity  and  a  constructive 
approach. 

The  commemoration  of  the  tenth  anniversary  of 
the terrorist attacks in New York on 11 September 2001 
to  fulfilling 
11-51681 

25 

A/66/PV.29 

reminded us once again of the great losses, the needed 
vigilance and the imperative to multiply our efforts in 
combating the terrible scourge of terrorism. 

As  a  State  party  to  all  the  universal  legal 
instruments  on  the  prevention  of  terrorist  acts,  the 
Republic  of  Moldova  condemns 
terrorism  and 
extremism  in  all  their  aspects,  and  welcomes  the 
achievements  of  the  United  Nations  Global  Counter-
Terrorism Strategy. We advocate the earliest conclusion 
of the negotiations of the comprehensive convention on 
international  terrorism,  the  convening  of  a  United 
Nations conference and the strengthening of all efforts 
on  combating  terrorism  at  the  national,  regional  and 
global levels. To contribute to that end, the Republic of 
Moldova  is  currently  hosting  a  regional  event  on 
preventing and countering the financing of terrorism in 
South-East European States. 

Let  me  now  refer  to  one  of  the  most  important 
security  issues  faced  by  the  Republic  of  Moldova  — 
the Transnistrian conflict. From the outset, I would like 
to  reconfirm  that  the  Government  of  the  Republic  of 
Moldova  remains  fully  committed  to  the  goal  of 
achieving  a  political,  comprehensive  and  viable 
solution  to  the  issue,  which  should  lead  to  the 
reintegration of my country. 

During  the  past  five  years,  in  referring  to  the 
Transnistrian  issue,  we  have  always  made  the  same 
appeal. Moldova calls for the unconditional resumption 
of  the  negotiations  on  the  political  settlement  of  the 
conflict  in  the  “5+2”  format.  I  am  happy  to  announce 
that,  exactly  five  days  ago,  at  the  5+2  consultations 
round  in  Moscow,  that  decision  was  finally  taken. We 
express  our  gratitude  to  the  Russian  Federation,  the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe, 
Ukraine, the European Union and the United States — 
the  members  of  the  5+2  negotiations  format  —  for 
their  efforts  in  reaching  that  result.  However,  the 
resumption of the official negotiations was never seen 
as  a  goal  in  itself.  We  are  fully  aware  that  the  most 
difficult part of resolving the conflict is still ahead. 

On  this  occasion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  some 
basic  elements  of  the  Moldovan  approach  towards  the 
problem. A viable and comprehensive political solution 
can  be  based  only  on  respect  for  the  sovereignty  and 
territorial integrity of the Republic of Moldova, within 
its  internationally  recognized  borders.  The  central 
two 
question  on 
negotiations  should  be 
the 
five  plus 
the  special  status  of 
the  agenda  of 
the 
fully-fledged 
Transnistrian region within Moldova. On the one hand, 
that  special  status  should  ensure  full  respect  of  the 
needs, rights and freedoms of the local population. On 
the  other  hand,  it  should  provide  for  the  functional 
integration of the region with the rest of the country. 

Over the past year, our efforts have been focused 
on  mobilizing  internal  resources  and  international 
support  to  advance  the  conflict  resolution  process.  In 
that  regard,  we  continue  to  promote  confidence-
building  measures  between  both  banks  of  the  Nistru 
River.  Our  current  list  of  priorities  includes  the 
restoration  of 
rail  communications 
throughout the Transnistrian region, in accordance with 
international standards. Another important objective is 
the  restoration  of  landline  phone  connections  to  allow 
people  from  the  Transnistrian  region  to  communicate 
freely  with  their  relatives  and  friends  in  the  rest  of 
Moldova.  

The  main  beneficiaries  of  such  measures  are, 
obviously, the population and the business community. 
The  solutions  are  on  the  table.  Our  message  for  the 
leadership in Tiraspol is clear — abandon the policy of 
self-isolation  and  let  us  think  together  about  practical 
and  transparent  solutions  that  would  make  people’s 
lives much easier. 

Let  me  also  refer  to  some  unresolved  issues  that 
need  further  attention.  We  are  concerned  about  the 
situation  of  Latin-script  schools  in  the  Transnistrian 
region,  which  remain  under  constant  pressure  from 
local  authorities.  Children  should  never  become 
hostages  of  political  disagreements.  In 
the  same 
context, we emphasize the need to improve the human 
rights  situation  in  the  region,  in  particular  to  resolve 
the  case  of  Mr.  Ilie  Cazac,  who  has  been  abusively 
imprisoned 
in  order 
to  secure  his 
immediate and unconditional release. 

We  need  to  reflect  on  the  future  of  the  existing 
peacekeeping  arrangements  in  Moldova.  I  would  like 
to  underline  the  fact  that  Moldova  has  been  at  peace 
for the past 19 years. Therefore, what we really need is 
a peace consolidation, not peacekeeping, exercise. That 
requires 
the  existing,  old-
fashioned  military  mechanism  into  a  multinational 
civilian  mission 
relevant 
international  mandate  and  focusing  on  confidence-
building activities. 
the 

presence of foreign military forces that are stationed on 
We  should  not  avoid  discussions  about 
transformation  of 
in  Tiraspol, 
the 
operating 
under 
a 
26 

11-51681 
the  withdrawal  of 
the  role  of  mediation 
the  process  of  settling 


Moldovan soil without the consent of the host country, 
in  breach  of  the  Moldovan  Constitution  and  relevant 
international  commitments.  We  are  confident  that  an 
early  completion  of 
foreign 
munitions  stocks  and  the  armed  forces  guarding  them 
from  the  territory  of  the  Republic  of  Moldova  will 
positively 
influence 
the 
Transnistrian problem. 

As in the case of other conflicts, the Transnistrian 
settlement  process  cannot  advance  to  its  final  goal 
without  wide  international  support,  particularly  from 
the mediators and observers. It is our strong belief that 
genuine  mediation  based  on  shared  objectives,  joint 
efforts  and  good  faith  is  an  essential  factor  in  that 
regard. 

We fully concur with the President’s focus on the 
peaceful settlement of disputes, and his assessment that 
peaceful settlements, including those brokered through 
mediation  efforts,  provide  the  most  cost-effective  and 
long-lasting  solutions.  We  will  actively  engage  in 
further  debate  on 
the 
settlement  of  disputes,  with  a  view  to  developing  and 
consolidating  the  role  of  the  General Assembly  as  the 
world’s leading peacemaker. 

Moldova’s advancement on the path to European 
integration,  the  primary  goal  of  which  is  the  overall 
modernization  of  the  country,  remains  the  absolute 
priority  of  the  domestic  and  external  policies  of  the 
Republic of Moldova. The Government has initiated a 
series  of  deep  reforms  to  ensure  the  rule  of  law,  the 
independence  of 
justice  and  a  functional  market 
economy where businesses and foreign investments can 
find  a  proper  place  to  grow. Those  have  proven  to  be 
complex, lengthy and sometimes painful processes, but 
they 
further 
development. 

Moldova’s proactive attitude and determination in 
promoting  and  implementing  reforms  has  ensured  a 
more intense  and expanded political dialogue between 
the European Union (EU) and Moldova. We have made 
significant  progress 
in  negotiating  an  association 
agreement  with  the  European  Union  by  opening  a 
structured dialogue on human rights and fully engaging 
in efforts to meet the conditions established during the 
visa  liberalization  dialogue.  We  are  ready  to  launch 
negotiations  on  creating  a  broad  and  comprehensive 
free trade area with the European Union. 
indispensable 
absolutely 
are 
for 
in 
A/66/PV.29
in 

The  European  perspective  continues  to  be  the 
EU’s  most  effective  tool  in  promoting  dynamic  and 
consistent  reforms  in  neighbouring  countries.  We  are 
confident  that  the  promotion  of  democratic  values, 
prosperity, stability and security in Europe will lay the 
foundation for the future EU agenda. That projection of 
soft power will be possible only if it is accompanied by 
an  extension  of  EU  borders.  In  that  context,  we  hope 
that the Warsaw Eastern Partnership Summit will make 
an important contribution to strengthening EU relations 
with  partner  countries,  developing  its  messages  and 
leaving  the  door  open  for  those  Eastern  European 
neighbours that are  able to meet the accession criteria 
in the foreseeable future. 
Over the past 20 years, my country has achieved 

the  field  of 
significant  positive  developments 
internal  affairs.  Still,  much  remains  to  be  done  in  the 
process of carrying out democratic and socio-economic 
reforms, the main objective of which is to consolidate 
the  Republic  of  Moldova  as  a  sovereign,  independent 
and reintegrated European State. 

In that regard, we further count on the support of 
the United Nations and its Member states in advancing 
the political and economic development of my country, 
resolving  the  Transnistrian  conflict,  speeding  up  the 
withdrawal 
and 
implementing our development priorities. 

In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reconfirm  the 
commitment  of the Republic of Moldova to the ideals 
and  goals  of  the  United  Nations,  and  its  readiness  to 
further  cooperate  broadly  by  engaging  in  concrete 
actions to bring those ideas and aspirations to life. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Francisco  Carrión-Mena,  chair  of 
the delegation of Ecuador. 
in 

Spanish): In June 2009, humankind was still witnessing 
with  perplexity  the  worst  economic  crisis  since  the 
Great  Depression  and  its  devastating  consequences  on 
employment,  hunger,  poverty,  trade,  foreign  direct 
investment, credit, tourism, remittances and health and 
education.  At  that  time,  my  country,  Ecuador,  felt  a 
moral  obligation  to  participate,  through  its  head  of 
State,  in  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  the World 
Financial  and  Economic  Crisis  and  Its  Impact  on 
Development,  convened  by  the  then-President  of  the 
General Assembly, Mr. Miguel d’Escoto Brockmann. 
Mr.  Carrión-Mena 
foreign  military 
(Ecuador) 
(spoke 
forces 
of 
11-51681 

27 

relations 
institutions, 
international 
democratizing 
A/66/PV.29 


On that occasion, the President of the Republic of 
Ecuador  emphasized  that  the  global  financial  debacle, 
which,  it  goes  without  saying,  originated  in  the  main 
financial markets of the North, was a symptom of crisis 
in a system in which the speculative-financial economy 
took precedence over the real economy. In other words, 
that system entailed waiting for money to create more 
money  and  stability  of  its  own  accord,  instead  of 
stimulating  the  production  of  goods  and  services  to 
meet the needs of human beings. 

For Ecuador, the gravity of the crisis alone should 
have  marked  a  shift  towards  a  stronger  role  for  the 
United Nations in global economic governance, with a 
view  to  overhauling  the  international  financial  system 
and 
by 
establishing a new world economic order. 

Unfortunately,  with  the  exception  of  a  scant  few 
cosmetic  changes  in  the  governance  of  the  Bretton 
Woods 
the  paradoxical  multi-million-
dollar bailout of the some of the sectors responsible for 
the crisis and a fragile mechanism to follow up on the 
commitments  contained  in  the  Outcome  of  the  2009 
Conference  (resolution  63/303,  annex),  nothing  has 
changed.  The  world  continues  to  await  some  sign  of 
financial  and  monetary  regulation  and  coordination 
that  would  ensure  economic  stability,  access  to  credit, 
full  and  productive  employment,  trade  financing,  debt 
sustainability,  social  safety  nets  and,  of  course,  a  true 
global  alliance 
that  would  protect  and  promote 
development  to  benefit  our  people,  which  is  the  sole 
objective of our efforts. 

In  its  current  state,  the  United  Nations  has  been 
unable to rise to the challenges stemming from global 
economic  instability,  which  have  been  exacerbated  by 
this new stage in the 2009 financial crisis. That is why 
Ecuador  is  aggressively  and  resolutely  promoting  the 
creation  of  a  new  regional  financial  architecture 
the  adverse  consequences 
capable  of  mitigating 
affecting  our  economies  as  a 
result  of 
their 
involvement in the international financial system. 
In  that  regard,  and  without  abandoning  the 

pursuit  of  comprehensive  reforms  of 
the  global 
financial  and  economic  system,  my  country  has 
suggested  an  approach,  while  taking  into  account  the 
political,  economic  and  social  circumstances  of  each 
region,  involving  the  adoption  of  regional  monetary 
agreements  that  include  a  semi-flexible  exchange  rate 
regime  and  a  common  reserve  fund  so  as  to  create  a 
truly  regional  exchange  rate  regime  and  a  regional 
currency. 

In the case of Latin America, this proposal had its 
origins in Latin American forums through the creation 
of  the  Bank  of  the  South.  Its  main  aim  is  to  fund 
multinational development projects and to bolster local 
and  regional  currencies  linked  to  a  common  reserve 
fund for Latin America, which would enable us to deal 
with the crisis and prevent billions of dollars from our 
region being paradoxically deposited into the banks of 
developed  countries.  In  the  same  way,  this  fund  is 
complemented  by  a  regional  payment  system,  which 
has  started  to  work  through  the  Unified  Regional 
Payment  Clearing  System,  with  excellent  results  to 
date.  This  system  is  leading  the  way  towards  a 
common physical currency in our region. 

These  regional  initiatives  can,  and  should  be, 
integrated  into  a  regional  integration  framework  that 
extends  beyond  the  economic  and  financial  spheres. 
Such  is  the  case  with  the  Union  of  South  American 
Nations,  the  headquarters  and  secretariat  of  which  is 
located  in  our  capital,  Quito,  the  Community  of  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  States  and  the  Bolivarian 
Alliance  for  the  Peoples  of  Our  America  —  Peoples’ 
Trade  Agreement.  My  country  stresses  that  these 
regional 
as 
complementing the urgent global measures required for 
better understanding and cooperation among regions.  

At  the  same  time,  Ecuador  urgently  calls  for  a 
comprehensive  reform  of  the  world  economic  and 
financial  system,  including  measures  such  as  the 
creation  of  an  economic  coordination  council  and  an 
independent  mechanism  to  restructure  and  solve  the 
problem  of  sovereign  debt,  which,  among  other 
proposals, should be discussed in a follow-up meeting 
to the 2009 conference. 

However,  apart  from  the  economic  and  financial 
crisis,  the  crisis  of  multilateralism  has  also  been 
reflected  in  the  lack  of  a  timely  and  suitable  response 
by  the  United  Nations  to  the  political  crises  that  have 
occurred, in particular in the Middle East. These have 
once  again  demonstrated  the  urgent  need  to  conclude 
the long-delayed process of a comprehensive reform of 
the  Security  Council.  This  reform  of  one  of  the  main 
organs  of  the  United  Nations  should  be  primarily 
aimed 
decision-making 
mechanisms, guaranteeing full respect for the principle 
of equitable geographic distribution, including regional 
democratizing 
considered 
responses 
should 
be 
at 
its 
28 

11-51681 
to 
of 
for 
improving 
the  beginning  of 
Ecuador  recognizes 
the  Special  Committee 
the 
the  Eradication 


representation, 
the  Council’s  working 
methods and strengthening the relationship between the 
Council  and  the  General Assembly. All  of  this  would 
provide  the  Council  with  the  necessary  legitimacy, 
effectiveness  and  representativeness  to  implement  its 
mandates. 

At  the  sixty-fifth  session,  Ecuador  took  over  the 
chairmanship 
on 
Decolonization  with  the  conviction  that,  starting  in 
third 
2011,  which  marked 
International  Decade 
of 
Colonialism,  we  need  new  strategies  that  will  lead,  in 
the  near  future, 
those 
the  decolonization  of 
territories that are still on the Committee’s list.  

that  peaceful  means  of 
solving  disputes  are  the  only  legitimate  mechanisms 
capable  of  guaranteeing  sustainable  and  lasting  peace 
for  peoples.  Among  these  is  mediation,  the  central 
theme  proposed  by  the  President  of  the Assembly  for 
the  sixty-sixth  session.  Imposing  solutions  by  force 
will  never  perpetuate  peace  —  quite  the  opposite. We 
have  witnessed  the  failure  of  these  methods,  which 
leads  to  war.  We  have  suffered  the  failure  of  these 
wars. My country condemns abusive interpretations of 
Security Council resolutions, which systematically lead 
to  more  violence,  bloodshed  and  human 
rights 
violations  and  which  do  not  foster  friendly  relations 
among countries.  

Ecuador’s position with regard to the Middle East 
has  as  its  founding  principle  our  full  adherence  to  the 
standards and principles of international law and strict 
compliance  with  United  Nations  resolutions.  Forty-
three  years  after  having  accepted  the  partition  of 
Palestine  into  two  States,  on  24  December  2010  the 
Government of Ecuador, in a gesture of historic justice, 
recognized  Palestine  as  a  free  and  independent  State, 
within its 1967 borders and with East Jerusalem as its 
capital.  My  country  therefore  gave  its  full  support  to 
accepting  Palestine’s  request  to  become  a  full  State 
Member  of  the  United  Nations,  as  formally  requested 
by  the  Palestinian  President  a  few  days  ago.  We  also 
support  all  initiatives  directed  towards  consolidating 
lasting  peace,  to  benefit  not  only  Palestine  and  Israel, 
but  the  entire  region.  This  is  a  historic  time  for  the 
United  Nations,  and  Ecuador  hopes 
the 
Organization will rise to the occasion. 

Concerning  our  region,  Ecuador  once  again 
firmly  condemns  the  economic,  trade  and  financial 
that 
A/66/PV.29
the 
the 
the  adoption  of 
relations,  we  are  now 
blockade  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against  Cuba  and  demands 
immediate  and 
unconditional lifting of all unilateral measures imposed 
in an extraterritorial fashion by that country against our 
sister  Caribbean  nation.  The  blockade  has  inflicted 
serious  economic,  social  and  even  humanitarian 
suffering on the population. 

With regard to the United Nations Conference on 
Sustainable Development to be held in Rio de Janeiro, 
20  years  after 
international 
principles  and  instruments  that  set  a  new  course  for 
international 
reaching  a 
watershed moment. Through it, we will be able to take 
stock of the implementation, both in the past and over 
the  coming  decades,  of 
these  principles  and 
instruments.  This  would  enable  renewed  political 
commitment  to  sustainable  development,  which  will 
require action on the three pillars, which we define as 
the economic, social and environmental areas.  

In order to implement the elements pending from 
the Rio conventions, Ecuador believes that we should, 
first,  comply  with  commitments  to  reduce  greenhouse 
gases in order to stabilize the temperature at levels that 
will  enable  us  to  restore  balance  to  the  planet  while 
upholding  the  principle  of  shared  but  differentiated 
responsibilities  and  equity;  secondly,  insist  on  the 
transfer  of  the  new  and  additional  financial  resources 
promised by developed countries, considering the huge 
efforts  that  we  developing  countries  are  making  in 
facing  global 
that 
sustainability is not just an environmental question, but 
a  shift  in  the  relationships  between  capital,  labour, 
nature  and  politics;  fourthly,  fix  terms  for  technology 
transfers that will enable developing countries to make 
progress in capacity-building and in finding options in 
their  pursuit  of  sustainable  development;  and  fifthly, 
draft 
field  of 
sustainable  development  in  order  to  achieve  equality, 
not  just  with  regard  to  a  green  economy  or  a 
strengthened institutional framework, but also in order 
to include development in the comprehensive approach 
to  improving  quality  of  life,  with  adequate  links 
between  the  three  pillars  to  which  I  have  referred  — 
what we in Ecuador call “living well”. 

Four  years  ago,  here  in  the  Hall,  my  country 
made an unequivocal gesture of its commitment to the 
fight  against  the  global  challenge  of  climate  change 
and the promotion of sustainable development. Indeed, 
in  2007,  Ecuador  presented  to  the  world  the  forward-
international 
instruments 
remember 
threats; 
thirdly, 
the 
in 
11-51681 

29 

known 
initiative, 
The  Yasuní-ITT 
A/66/PV.29 

looking  Yasuní  ITT  initiative,  an  innovative  and 
revolutionary  idea.  Under  the  initiative,  the  State  of 
Ecuador  committed  to  leaving  856  million  barrels  of 
oil underground indefinitely under the Yasuní National 
Park,  thereby  preventing  the  emission  of  407  million 
metric  tonnes  of  carbon  dioxide  into  the  atmosphere 
that would have been produced by the burning of these 
fossil  fuels.  All  this  was  conceived  as  a  swap  in 
compensation for the estimated value of 50 per cent of 
the  revenue  that  the  exploitation  of  those  resources 
would generate.  

today 
throughout  the  world,  represents  a  concrete,  effective 
measure  for  combating  climate  change  and  preserving 
the  rich  biodiversity  of  the  area,  along  with  its  water, 
the  rights  of  indigenous  people  living  in  the  park  and 
nature  itself.  By  foregoing  the  right  to  exploit  the  oil 
reserves that lie beneath the Yasuní National Park and 
the  economic  resources  that  would  be  required  to 
develop  them,  Ecuador  hopes  that  the  international 
community  will  contribute  at  least  half  of  what  the 
country would have received in profit, acting under the 
principle  of  co-responsibility  on  the  part  of  countries 
that have historically been most responsible for climate 
change. 

In  a  parallel  event  that  took  place  here  at  the 
United  Nations  on  23  September  with  the  support  of 
the  Secretary-General  and  the  President,  President 
Rafael  Correa  reminded  the  international  community 
about the Yasuní-ITT initiative. The proposal has been 
enthusiastically  received  by  countries,  organizations, 
citizens, visionaries and leaders from around the world, 
adding up to significant support from both individuals 
and  the  private  sector.  That  response  has  allowed 
Ecuador to broaden its initiative in a manner that will 
transform  the  governance  of  public  resources  at  the 
global level. For example, we have begun to shape the 
concept  of  net  avoided  emissions,  which  President 
Correa  introduced  last  year  at  the  Cancún  Climate 
Change Conference. That and the Yasuní-ITT initiative 
are  two  visionary  proposals  from  a  developing  oil-
producing  nation  of  the  South  as  a  contribution  to 
global 
sustainable 
development.  
Throughout this session, Ecuador will continue to 

defend  with  particular  emphasis 
to 
development,  the  human  right  to  water,  the  rights  of 
indigenous  peoples,  the  rights  of  women,  girls  and 
boys, the rights of people with disabilities, the rights of 
challenges 
area  of 
right 
the 
in 
the 
that  favour  family  unification  and 
older  adult  men  and  women,  the  rights  of  migrant 
workers  and  their  families  and  the  rights  of  all 
vulnerable members of society.  

For this reason, my country reiterates its concern 
about, and rejects, legislation adopted by certain States 
whose  application  leads  to  measures  or  practices  that 
restrict  the  full  exercise  of  migrant  workers’  human 
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms.  By  the  same  token, 
we  reaffirm  that  even  as  they  exercise  their  sovereign 
right  to  implement  such  measures  to  control  their 
borders,  States  have  the  obligation  to  guarantee  the 
human  rights  of  migrant  workers  and  should  promote 
measures 
the 
protection of minors. States also have the responsibility 
to  strengthen  laws  that  punish  any  act  of  violence 
against  migrant  workers,  particularly  hate  crimes  that 
foment  discrimination  based  on  ethnic,  racial  or 
religious differences, as well as crimes against migrant 
workers  that  are  committed  with  racist  or  xenophobic 
motives. 

Ecuador is a peaceful land that espouses universal 
disarmament  and  condemns  the  development  and  use 
of  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  For  that  reason,  we 
place 
and 
international  security,  and  note  with  concern  the 
shrinking  space  for  enforcing  agreements  in  those 
areas. 

The  international  community  has  not  produced  a 
single  instrument  through  which  the  nuclear  States 
pledge  to  refrain  from  using  nuclear  weapons  against 
non-nuclear  countries  during  the  process  aimed  at 
destroying all such arms. It would seem that within the 
Conference  on  Disarmament  the  only  interest  and 
concern is to advance within the framework of nuclear 
proliferation, 
even  worse, 
marginalizing all possibility of progress in the realm of 
nuclear  disarmament.  For  that  reason,  my  country 
supports  the  ongoing  negotiation  process  within  the 
Conference  on  Disarmament,  which 
includes  all 
pending matters. 

As  a  proponent  of  universal  disarmament,  peace 
and  sustainable  development  in  harmony  with  nature, 
and  as  a  signatory  to  the  Treaty  of  Tlatelolco,  which 
established 
region, 
Ecuador  sincerely  hopes  that  the  pending  aspects 
regarding  the  establishment  of  a  nuclear-free  zone  in 
the Middle East will be resolved. 
the  world’s  first  nuclear-free 
downgrading 
disarmament 
importance 
great 
or, 
on 
30 

11-51681 
the  world.  We  have 



My country wishes to express its full support for 
initiatives  aimed  at  establishing  transparency  in  the 
area of conventional weapons and for combating illegal 
trafficking in small arms and light weapons, including 
landmines  and  cluster  bombs.  We  also  support 
measures taken within the context of the Programme of 
Action  to  Prevent,  Combat  and  Eradicate  the  Illicit 
Trade in and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects. We look 
forward to the United Nations Conference on the Arms 
Trade  Treaty,  whose  outcome  document  should  be  an 
objective, 
non-discriminatory 
instrument. 

Since  1953,  Ecuador  has  been  part  of  the  great 
United  Nations  undertaking  to  maintain  peace  and 
security  across 
increasingly 
to  United  Nations  armed  forces  for 
contributed 
peacekeeping  missions  in  various  countries.  We  are 
currently  participating  in  Haiti,  Chad,  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
Liberia, the Central African Republic and the Sudan. 

Since  2004,  we  have  participated  in  the  United 
Nations  Stabilization  Mission  in  Haiti  as  part  of  the 
Chilean-Ecuadoran  company  of  engineers 
is 
helping  to  build  new  infrastructure  for  that  country’s 
development, with due recognition from the authorities 
and the local populace. 

Ecuador  foresees  increasing  its  participation  in 
peacekeeping operations, but our intentions go beyond 
that.  As  a  troop-contributing  country,  we  wish  to 
increase 
the  number  of  units  and  armed  forces 
personnel  taking  part  in  such  operations.  We  have 
made great efforts to show our commitment to joining 
the  international  community  in  its  struggle  to  ensure 
that  regions  experiencing  the  greatest  upheaval  can 
resolve  their  differences  and  achieve  the  peace  that  is 
so necessary.  

Let  us  not  be  deceived  —  global  multilateralism 
is  in  deep  crisis.  The  United  Nations  system  has  not 
adequately  responded 
the  convulsive  moment 
through  which  we  are  living.  Climate  change,  the 
Palestinian question, the crisis in Libya and investment 
in  development  are  just  a  few  examples  that  illustrate 
its  ineffectiveness.  Solutions  to  the  great  problems  of 
our  planet  are  no  longer  reached  within  these  walls. 
The most powerful countries of the world rely on other 
forums,  exclusionary  and  anti-democratic  ones,  to 
decide  for  everyone  else.  If  we  do  not  act  today  on 
those  and  other  urgent  themes,  such  as  the  reform  of 
the  international  monetary  and  economic  systems  as 
that 
predictable 
and 
to 
A/66/PV.29
well as that of certain United Nations bodies, there will 
be no point in debating ways to restore the role of this 
world  body  in  global  governance.  It  is  up  to  us  to 
resolve this grave dilemma. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His Excellency Mr. Jim McLay, chair of the delegation 
of New Zealand. 
Mr. McLay (New Zealand): As we say in Maori, 

to  all  peoples  and  to  all  voices,  greetings,  greetings, 
greetings to all. 

I  speak  at  the  end  of  a  period  of  intense  United 
Nations dialogue and  engagement. This  year’s general 
debate  provides  unparalleled  opportunities  to  reaffirm 
the unique multilateral role of the United Nations. And 
there  has  been  much  to  debate.  The  events  set  in 
motion  by  a  single  Tunisian  street  vendor  have 
transformed much of the Middle East and North Africa. 
People  have  displayed  extraordinary  courage 
in 
claiming their rights and freedoms. The transition from 
dictatorship to democracy  will not be easy; it will not 
be quick; but it must be achieved. 

For  others,  the  struggle  continues.  We  still  look 
for change in Yemen; we still look for change in Syria. 
Other  challenges  are  highlighted  by  this  debate.  We 
heard  from  the  President  of  South  Africa  and  others 
how the global community must move swiftly to avert 
humanitarian disaster in the Horn of Africa. 
We  heard  from  the  President  of  Nigeria  how 

terror  networks 
international  peace  and 
security,  and  from  the  President  of  Tanzania  about 
growing piracy on Africa’s eastern coast, from Somalia 
to  Mozambique.  We  heard  calls  from  the  Indonesian 
Foreign Minister for bold measures to avert a renewed 
global financial crisis, and we heard from the President 
of Brazil about the challenge of empowering women to 
participate in political decision-making. 

As  this  debate  has  demonstrated,  much  more 
remains to be done. Lives have also been wrenched by 
natural disasters in many countries, including my own. 
On 22 February 2011, we experienced what my Prime 
Minister  called  New  Zealand’s  darkest  day.  An 
earthquake  struck  Christchurch,  our  second-largest 
city. A total of 181 people were killed, a loss we share 
with  15  other  countries  whose  citizens  also  died.  We 
were  humbled  by  the  support  we  received,  and,  once 
again, I thank those who gave that help. 
threaten 
11-51681 

31 

A/66/PV.29 


Despite that disaster and the literally thousands of 
aftershocks that have followed, New Zealanders remain 
resilient  and  optimistic.  Christchurch  is  being  rebuilt. 
Our  economy  is  bouncing  back  and  the  country  is 
returning  to  normal,  not  least  by  currently  hosting  the 
Rugby World Cup, a celebration of a game we love, in 
the country we love.  

Despite  some  cause  for  economic  optimism,  the 
events of just the past week suggest that the world still 
faces  what  we  have  long  feared:  a  second  and  even 
more  disastrous  decline  into  a  double-dip  recession. 
We  do  not  relish  the  prospect  of  being  dragged  into 
another  recession  that  is  not  of  our  own  making.  We 
caution  others  larger  than  ourselves  against  repeating 
the mistakes of the 1930s, when autarkic protectionism 
only deepened the Depression and led to war. 

Instead,  a  successful  conclusion  of  the  Doha 
Round is one of the keys to prosperity, particularly for 
those  of  the  global  South.  The  February  Christchurch 
earthquake  was  followed  by  the  devastation  wrought 
on our close friend and neighbour Japan. I reiterate our 
heartfelt sympathy to Japan, so steadfast in its support 
for New Zealand in our time of need. Those disasters, 
and  others  elsewhere,  reinforced  the  importance  of 
effective disaster preparedness, response and recovery. 
New Zealand will work with the United Nations, 

non-governmental  organizations  and 
international 
agencies so that the lessons learned from Christchurch 
are  shared  with  others  so  that  those  in  regions  as 
vulnerable  as  ours  can  be  better  prepared.  Indeed,  in 
those  regions,  disaster  preparedness  is  no  desktop 
exercise; it is a matter of survival. 
Likewise,  for  our  Pacific  neighbours,  another 

high  risk,  climate  change, 
threat, 
confined to thousands of pages of reports and esoteric 
debate;  it  is  a  fundamental  question  of  existence.  For 
the Pacific, climate change is a grave and present threat 
to livelihoods, security and well-being. 
those 

challenges  first-hand  when  he  visited  several  Pacific 
States, including one post-conflict society, and another 
whose  people  see,  on  a  daily  basis,  the  dangers  of 
rising  oceans.  He  experienced  real  vulnerability  when 
he  saw  that  his  hotel  room,  in  addition  to  the  towels 
and the telephone, was equipped with a lifejacket. And 
he saw the impact of rising oceans on the viability and 
survival  of  many  communities  when  his  plane  had  to 
Secretary-General 
is  no  abstract 
experienced 
The 
that, 
it 
is 
to 
that  all 
self-evident 
It  means  strengthening  adaptation 
be “wheels up” from the country’s airport — its major 
link with the world — before the tide came in. 

Much more of that, and whole populations will be 
on  the  move,  as  they  will  be  in  other  regions  of  the 
world as well, and that will have with implications for 
regional and international stability and security. Faced 
with 
relevant 
international  forums,  including  the  Security  Council, 
must  play  their  part  in  addressing  the  challenge.  That 
means taking urgent and effective action on emissions 
reduction. 
in 
developing countries, particularly the most vulnerable. 
And  it  means  acknowledging  and  planning  for  the 
security  implications  before  they  become  threats  to 
regional and international security. 

This  year’s  Durban  meeting  must  set  us  on  the 
road to full implementation of the Cancun agreements. 
New  Zealand  is  committed,  both  through  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
negotiations and its active assistance in the Pacific and 
elsewhere, 
integrate  adaptation  and  mitigation 
measures into its development activities. 
New  Zealand  also  initiated  the  Global  Research 

Alliance on Agricultural Greenhouse Gases. Supported 
by more than 30 countries, the Alliance seeks to ensure 
that 
emissions  does  not 
compromise global food security. 

Increased  agricultural  productivity  —  the  ability 
of many countries to feed themselves — is one of the 
great  achievements  of  recent  decades.  Constraining 
agricultural production would put much of the world’s 
population  at  risk,  and  no  country  will  do  that.  We 
must  therefore  maintain  investment  in  agricultural 
research, so that productivity and efficiency gains  can 
continue,  but  with  fewer  greenhouse-gas  emissions. 
That is what the Global Alliance is all about.  

New  Zealand  takes  pride  in  its  diversity. We  are 
indigenous  Maori;  we  are  European;  and  we  are  the 
many  peoples  from 
the  Asia-Pacific  region  and 
elsewhere  who  now  call  New  Zealand  home.  We  are 
also proud to be part of the Pacific Islands Forum, the 
foremost  regional  body.  For  40  years,  it  has  been 
central  to  the  region’s  efforts  to  address  its  own 
problems,  be  they  the  special  development  challenges 
of  small,  isolated,  vulnerable  island  States,  or  halting 
and healing the impacts of violent conflict. It has done 
that 
through 
time-honoured  Pacific  way, 
agricultural 
reducing 
in 
the 
32 

11-51681 
Three  weeks  ago,  at 
that  cause  here 
to 
countries,  where  diabetes 
the  Forum’s 
in  Auckland,  Pacific 


respectful  dialogue  and  cooperation  and  then  through 
joint action. 

fortieth 
anniversary  meeting 
leaders 
honoured that legacy by agreeing on measures aimed at 
converting Pacific potential into Pacific prosperity. 
The  themes  of  their  discussions  will  resonate  in 

other  regions:  strong,  sustainable  economic  growth, 
protecting  vulnerable  populations  and  ensuring  that 
they  are  healthy  and  educated  and  that  they  can  have 
long lives. 

A  key  focus  of  that  meeting  was  the  alarming 
incidence  of  non-communicable  diseases,  a  scourge 
that  is  rapidly  encircling  the  globe. Almost  half  of  all 
New Zealand deaths relate to cancer and heart disease, 
but the situation is even more critical in many Pacific 
island 
in  particular 
approaches epidemic proportions. We thank those who 
brought 
the  United  Nations, 
particularly  the  countries  members  of  the  Caribbean 
Community. 

With  the  2012  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable Development (Rio+20) very much in mind, 
Pacific  Forum  leaders  also  focused  on  sustainable 
development.  Rio+20  will  be  an  opportunity  to  assess 
the progress made since the 1992 Conference, take its 
agenda  forward  and  highlight  best  practices.  For 
example,  New  Zealand’s  aid  programme  includes 
energy, agriculture and tourism initiatives that promote 
sustainable development. 

Pacific  peoples  were  navigating  their  ocean,  the 
world’s  largest,  at  a  time  when  others  were  still 
confined  to  their  coastal  waters.  New  Zealand  Maori 
call  the  Pacific  the  ocean  guarded  by  the  god  Kiwa. 
Our  region  is  uniquely  dependent  on  its  ocean.  For 
those who call the Pacific home, the “green economy” 
is  in  reality  a  blue  economy.  Our  ocean  underpins 
livelihoods,  food  security  and  economic  development. 
That  is  why  Pacific  leaders  have  focused  on  ensuring 
its 
and 
conservation.  That  is  why  they  made  addressing 
acidification,  pollution  and  illegal,  unreported  and 
unregulated  fishing  urgent  matters.  That  is  why  our 
leaders  want  us  to  work  towards  integrated  ocean 
management,  with  our  own  Pacific  Oceanscape 
framework as a very good model. And that is why they 
called  for  Rio+20  to  recognize  the  Pacific’s  economic 
and environmental significance, and its contribution to 
development,  management 
sustainable 
A/66/PV.29
the 
focus  on 
sustainable  development. At  Rio+20,  we  will  seek  the 
support of the United Nations for that blue economy. 

We work to protect the health of people and their 
environment,  but  we  must  also  enhance  collective 
security  by  advancing  the  disarmament  agenda.  Over 
the  coming  year,  we  must 
full 
implementation  of  the  action  plan  agreed  at  the  2010 
Review Conference of the Parties to the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. As coordinator 
for the New Agenda Coalition, a group of non-nuclear-
weapon  States  committed  to  a  nuclear-weapon-free 
world,  New  Zealand  will  soon  introduce  a  draft 
resolution  highlighting  the  work  that  will  be  required 
to  achieve  its  implementation  during  the  coming 
review cycle of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear  Weapons.  We  commend  that  draft  resolution 
for the Assembly’s consideration. 

There  have  been  gains  over  the  past  year  with 
respect  to  conventional  disarmament,  but  we  have  yet 
to  see  the  results  of  those  achievements.  There  has 
been  pleasing  progress  towards  an  arms  trade  treaty, 
but  hard  work  remains.  Next  year’s  Diplomatic 
Conference  must  deliver  a  treaty  establishing  the 
highest  possible  common  international  standards  for 
conventional arms transfers. 

We  must  also  maintain  focus  on  small  arms  and 
light  weapons,  which  for  many  regions  are  their 
weapons of mass destruction. The year 2011 marks the 
tenth anniversary of the United Nations Programme of 
Action  to  Prevent,  Combat  and  Eradicate  the  Illicit 
Trade  in  Small  Arms  and  Light  Weapons  in  All  Its 
Aspects.  There  has  been  much  to  celebrate,  including 
the first Open-Ended Meeting of Governmental Experts 
on  the  implementation  of  the  Programme  of  Action, 
which  I  had  the  honour  of  chairing  in  May.  But  next 
year’s Review Conference must work to ensure that the 
Programme  delivers  on 
its  potential  for  keeping 
communities safe from such weapons. 

To deal with all of that, we need a strong, nimble 
and  effective  United  Nations,  and  we  need  a  Security 
Council  that  reflects  geopolitical  realities  —  realities 
that  have  changed  since  1945.  Today,  some  States 
might credibly seek a fuller, longer-term Council role. 
New Zealand supports change that acknowledges those 
realities. 

But most United Nations Members are not major 
or  emerging  Powers,  they  are  small  States.  They  too 
are  crucial  to  the  universality  and  legitimacy  of  the 
11-51681 

33 

A/66/PV.29 

United Nations; they too must contribute at the Council 
table.  Let  me  put  it  simply:  if  we  reform  the  Security 
Council  to  provide  a  fuller,  longer-term  role  for 
emerging Powers, we must also ensure a role for small 
States. Speaking as a small State, I say that we are the 
United Nations. And so we agreed with the Minister for 
Foreign Affairs  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago  when  he  said 
that the smallness of a country is not a deterrent to the 
realization  of  big  dreams  (see  A/66/PV.27),  and  with 
the  Prime  Minister  of  Cape  Verde,  who  told  us  that 
small States must have a greater voice in international 
decision-making (see A/66/PV.23). 

There are real risks if we cannot achieve genuine 
Security  Council  reform.  Emerging  Powers  will  be 
denied a role consistent with their global significance, 
and  small  States  will  continue  to  be  squeezed  out  of 
positions of responsibility. It is in everyone’s interests 
that  the  Security  Council  be  more  representative.  As 
we  saw  earlier  this  year  with  respect  to  Libya,  the 
Council  is  an  extraordinarily  powerful  instrument  for 
maintaining  international  peace  and  security.  But  with 
extraordinary power comes extraordinary responsibility — 
responsibility  that  must  be  exercised  with  regard  for  the 
views of all countries, large and small. 

The  Council  must  also  build  on  its  partnerships 
with regional groups, such as the African Union, which 
increasingly  plays  a  critical  role 
in  maintaining 
regional  and  global  peace  and  security.  Recognizing 
the  importance  of  closer  relations  with Africa,  we  are 
encouraging New Zealand investment in and trade with 
Africa,  supporting  peace  and  security  and  providing 
development  assistance.  Last  week,  we  increased  our 
diplomatic  engagement  by  appointing  a  dedicated 
ambassador  to  the  African  Union  and  the  Federal 
Democratic Republic of Ethiopia. 

New  Zealand  is  proud  of  its  history  of  active 
contribution  right  across  the  United  Nations  agenda. 
We  have  a  strong  record  as  an  independent  and  

principled voice advocating collective security and the 
rule  of  law.  We  take  an  even-handed  approach  to 
security issues, as has been shown by our voting record 
and  our  tangible  contributions  to  peace  processes. We 
take seriously our international responsibilities. 

That  is  why,  in  2004,  we  announced  that  we 
would seek a non-permanent Security Council seat for 
the 2015-2016 term. Nearly 20 years have passed since 
New  Zealand’s  last  time  on  the  Council.  The  time  is 
right  for  us  to  again  bring  the  fresh,  independent 
perspective  of  a  small  Asia-Pacific  country  to  the 
Council. That candidature, which I confirm here today, 
is based on the belief that States, large and small, have 
a place at the Council table. Modern New Zealand was 
founded on a compact, a treaty-based partnership with 
its  indigenous  Maori  people.  That,  and  our  diversity, 
means  a  unique  history  and  perspective  on  promoting 
tolerance and conflict resolution; a perspective that we 
have previously brought, to good effect, to the Council 
table, and which we will bring again. 

For  the  United  Nations,  2011  has  been  a  truly 
historic  year. The  Organization  has  quickly  responded 
to  change  in  the  Middle  East  and  North  Africa.  It 
stands  ready  to  provide  post-conflict  support,  and  not 
just in Libya. It has been critical to relief in the Horn 
of  Africa.  Its  essential  role  in  State  recognition  has 
been at global centre stage. Even the most cynical, the 
most jaded, have had to relearn that the United Nations 
is at the epicentre of much that happens, and much that 
matters.  We  need  the  United  Nations.  We  need  it  to 
address  the  woes  of  the  world  and  to  consolidate  its 
successes.  Its  fundamental  importance  stems  from  its 
universality,  its  legitimacy  and  its  mechanisms  to 
confront  challenges.  Its  effectiveness  depends  on  its 
ability  to  adapt  as  those  challenges  emerge  and  on  its 
ability  to  address  them  together.  Member  States,  large 
and small, come together in that collective endeavour. 
New Zealand, as always, stands ready to play its part. 

  The meeting rose at 6.20 p.m. 
34 

11-51681 
