
A/66/PV.4
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

4th plenary meeting 
Monday, 19 September 2011, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 







  In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Ms.  Kamara 
(Liberia), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 



High-level Meeting of the General Assembly on the 
Prevention and Control of Non-communicable Diseases 
Agenda item 117 (continued)
Follow-up to the outcome of the Millennium Summit 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His Excellency Mr. Jorge Venegas, Minister for Public 
Health of Uruguay. 
Mr. Venegas  (Uruguay) (spoke in Spanish):  It is 

my honour to participate in this High-level Meeting on 
Non-communicable Diseases on behalf of the countries 
members  of  the  Union  of  South  American  Nations 
(UNASUR). 

In  its  brief  lifespan,  UNASUR  has  provided  an 
excellent forum for our Ministers of Health to discuss 
our  problems  and  propose  regional  solutions  to  them, 
building a shared community of interests and concerns. 

to  be 
delivered  by  the  representative  of  Argentina  in  his 
capacity  as  Chairman  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China, 
because we are convinced that chronic, non-communicable 
diseases  (NCDs)  represent  a  global  epidemic  that  is 
responsible for much of the morbidity and mortality in 
our  countries  and  for  the  consequent  drain  on  our 
financial resources. 
therefore  endorse 
the  statement 
We 
the  other 

Concerned about risk factors and determinants of 
health,  UNASUR  has  established  a  technical  group 
with competencies in these areas and in the promotion 
of health. Its goal is to promote joint regional efforts to 
tackle  problems  such  as  the  epidemics  of  overweight 
and  obesity,  diabetes,  high  blood  pressure  and  high 
cholesterol. 

UNASUR  countries  are  watching  with  concern 
this  globalization-related  process  whereby  unhealthy 
lifestyles  have  become  increasingly  common.  The 
growing urbanization of our countries is a deterrent to 
physical  activity,  exacerbated  by,  on  the  one  hand, 
increased  exposure  to  television,  video  games  and 
computers,  and  on 
the  widespread 
consumption  of  unhealthy  fast  foods,  which  together 
give  rise  to  an  increased  incidence  of  overweight  and 
obesity  as well as  of diabetes at younger and younger 
ages. 

to 
combating  poverty.  Poverty  is  exacerbated,  however, 
by the suffering related to an NCD. Medications are of 
vital  importance  for  those  who  suffer  from  these 
diseases. However, large numbers of people throughout 
the world, particularly in the less developed countries, 
have  no  access,  or  only  unreliable  access,  to  such 
medications. 

We in UNASUR have been working very hard to 
ensure access by all citizens to medicines, as we deem 
these  to  be  a  public  good  and  believe  that  access  to 
them is a sine qua non for the enjoyment of the right to 
health.  We  place  health  above  any  trade  interests.  We 
All  UNASUR  countries  are  committed 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-50349 (E) 
*1150349* 

in 
aimed 
increasing 
environments 
the  adoption  by 
fat 
processed 
A/66/PV.4 

are  therefore  striving  to  make  use  of  the  existing 
flexibilities in the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual 
Property Rights Agreement, as confirmed by the Doha 
Declaration  of  2001.  We  participated  actively  in  the 
process  of 
the  World  Health 
Organization (WHO) of the global strategy and plan of 
action  on  public  health,  innovation  and  intellectual 
property, with a view to enhancing universal access to 
medicines  without  any  limitation  or  restriction  to 
specific diseases. 

We  believe  that  if  we  are  effectively  to  combat 
NCDs,  States  must  play  a  leading  role  in  terms  of 
providing coordination among all sectors and devising 
promotional  and  regulatory  measures. The  Framework 
Convention  on  Tobacco  Control  has  provided  us  with 
valuable lessons. It is thus necessary to replicate these 
by  promoting  healthy 
at 
increasing levels of physical activity; reducing sodium, 
intake,  and  eliminating 
sugar  and  saturated 
trans-fats 
food; 
the 
consumption of fruits and vegetables; reducing calorie 
intake;  providing  more  information  to  consumers; 
protecting  children 
touting 
unhealthy  food  and  drink;  and  reduce  harmful  alcohol 
consumption  by  means  of  effective  public  policies  to 
minimize access to it. 
As we stated earlier, there exist important tools in 

respect, 
the  WHO  Framework 
that 
Convention  on  Tobacco  Control  of  2003;  the  WHO 
Global  Strategy  on  Diet,  Physical Activity  and  Health 
of 2004;  and  the WHO  Global Strategy to Reduce the 
Harmful Use of Alcohol of 2010. 
The Millennium Development Goals have made it 

clear 
that  when  clear,  delimited  and  easy-to-
communicate goals are formulated, it becomes easier to 
build 
for 
cooperation  suitable  to  producing  concrete  results  in 
terms of health. Hence we welcome the holding of this 
High-level  Meeting,  because  we  believe  it  is  key  that 
we  should  agree  upon  clear  objectives  and  concrete 
goals at the global, regional and national levels in the 
area  of  chronic  NCDs,  such  as  the  follow-up  and 
evaluation of the Political Declaration (resolution 66/2, 
annex) adopted at this High-level Meeting. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Marty  Natalegawa,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Indonesia. 
from  advertisements 
frameworks 
including 
alliances 
develop 
and 

for 
providing 
us  with 
First of  all, on behalf of ASEAN, let me present 
Mr.  Natalegawa  (Indonesia):  I  am  honoured  to 

participate  in  this  important  High-level  Meeting  on 
behalf  of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Susilo  Bambang 
Yudhoyono,  President  of  Indonesia,  who  is  also  the 
current  Chair  of  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations (ASEAN).  

Today  we  are  addressing  a  grievous  global 
concern: the prevention and control of non-communicable 
diseases. This  is  an  issue  that  has  a  strong  impact  not 
only  on  national  development  gains  but  also  on  the 
human  right  to  life.  We  therefore  wish  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General 
an 
enlightening report (A/66/83) on this issue. 

our regional perspective on the matter at hand. 

For  ASEAN  member  States,  non-communicable 
diseases  are  a  major  challenge  that  compounds  the 
deadly  impact  of  communicable  diseases.  A  2010 
report  by  the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO) 
showed  that  non-communicable  diseases  caused  some 
36.1  million  deaths  in  2008.  Eighty  per  cent  of  these 
deaths  were  caused  by  four  main  non-communicable 
diseases. And  low  to  middle  income  families  suffered 
80 per cent of these deaths. 

According  to  WHO,  NCDs-related  deaths  will 
increase  by  17  per  cent  over  the  next  decade. Among 
ASEAN  communities,  deaths  due 
to  NCDs  can 
increase  from  the  current  2.6  million  to  4.2  million 
people. 

At  the  global  level,  NCDs  are  affecting  mostly 
working-age  adults, 
the  most 
productive  generation  in  the  world  today  and  thus 
reducing the gross domestic product of low- to middle-
income countries by as much as 5 per cent. This is one 
reason  why  poverty  is  so  widespread  and  why  many 
countries suffered in backwardness.  

Hence,  we  in  ASEAN  are  working  hard  and  in 
concert  to  address  this  grave  challenge.  In  our  view, 
prevention  is  the  key  to  resolving  the  problem. 
Prevention  is  and  will  always  be  our  priority.  We  are 
therefore carrying out four major prevention strategies. 

are 
strengthening  our  health  systems  and  infrastructures. 
These  efforts  include  mainstreaming  NCD  prevention 
and  control  alongside  efforts  to  prevent  and  control 
infectious 
development 
in  health 
programmes,  and  enhancing  operations 
thereby  eroding 
foremost,  we 
in  ASEAN 
national 
disease 
First 
and 
in 
2 

11-50349 


facilities  from  the  lowest  to  the  highest  levels.  They 
include raising the capabilities of human resources for 
medical care and developing effective referral systems.  

We  are  also  improving  our  surveillance  systems 
of the diseases and the modifiable risk factors. We are 
working 
towards  universal  health  coverage  and 
providing  service  packages  that  cater  to  the  needs  of 
people  with  chronic  NCDs.  In  brief,  we  must  have  a 
comprehensive  health  system  and  infrastructure  for 
addressing  NCDs.  This  is  not  an  option;  it  is  an 
imperative. 

Secondly,  we  are  strengthening  our  national 
health  policies  and  accelerating  programmes  for 
tobacco  control.  We  will  not  be  content  only  with 
passing  laws  that  heavily  tax  cigarettes;  we  will  also 
consider  using  the  revenues  derived  from  sin  taxes  to 
support NCDs prevention. We will continue to promote 
a  smoke-free  environment  in  order  to  protect  our 
people from secondary smoke. We are aligning national 
policies on agriculture, trade, industry and transport to 
improve diets, encourage physical exercise and reduce 
harmful alcohol use. We are implementing community-
based  intervention  for  early  detection  of  factors  of 
major NCDs. 

Thirdly,  we  are  strengthening  partnerships  for 
health.  The  need  for  international  cooperation  for 
public health cannot be overemphasized. Although the 
Millennium Development Goals do not include targets 
for  the  reduction  of  NCDs,  individual  efforts  by 
ASEAN  member  States  warrant  complementary 
coordinated  support  from  our  partners.  We  appeal  to 
our  international  partners  to  fund  and  align  NCD 
prevention  and  control  efforts  with 
their  other 
development programmes, such as those of the MDGs 
and climate change programmes. 

to  fund 
research  on  the  unique  public  health  problems  of  our 
region. We call on the international community to help 
us  ensure  that  essential  pharmaceutical  products  and 
medical  devices  are  available  to  the  region.  This  will 
help  avert  the  devastating  socio-economic  impact  of 
NCDs on our societies. 
In  short,  partnership  among  countries  is  a  must 

among  developed  and  developing  countries  and  at  the 
global, regional and bilateral levels. 

the 
involvement of all stakeholders. To effectively respond 
We  urge  our  development  partners 
least,  we  are  ensuring 
Last  but  not 
A/66/PV.4
is 
these  steps,  we 
therefore  committed 
taking 
that  we  will  be  able 
to the challenges posed by NCDs, we must enlist their 
participation.  ASEAN 
to 
implementing  a  whole-of-government,  people-centred 
approach involving civil society, the private sector and 
community organizations. 
in  ASEAN  are 

By 
confident 
to  contribute 
significantly to the global reduction of the NCD death 
rate in this decade. 

At the national level, Indonesia is grappling with 
the double threat of communicable and non-communicable 
diseases. The impact of NCDs is affecting not only the 
urban  populations  but  also  the  rural  poor.  This  is 
compounding the basic problem of poverty. 
To address this challenge, in 2006 we established 

a  special  unit  in  the  Ministry  of  Health  and  tasked  it 
with  advocating  NCDs  control  and  strengthening  the 
legal  framework  for  that.  We  have  also  given  priority 
to  minimizing  the  common  risk  factors:  tobacco  use, 
alcohol  abuse,  unhealthy  diet  and  physical  inactivity. 
We  are  now  simplifying  and  increasing  taxes  on 
tobacco  to  control  the  consumption  of  this  deadly 
commodity. 

Indonesia also is committed to implementing the 
2008-2013 Action Plan for the Global Strategy for the 
Prevention 
and  Control  of  Non-communicable 
Diseases.  To  support  global  efforts  to  address  NCDs, 
Indonesia  hosted  a  Regional  Meeting  on  Health  and 
Development Challenges of NCDs in Jakarta in March 
2011.  

The  scale  and  virulence  of  non-communicable 
diseases require unprecedented political commitment at 
the highest political levels to address this global issue. 
That  commitment  must  therefore  be  incorporated  into 
the global agenda of the international community. That 
is why we are holding this high-level meeting. 

Let us not waste this opportunity. Let us seize this 
moment to secure global commitment for a coordinated 
response  to  this  challenge.  That  means  mobilizing 
resources  and  building  a  genuine  global  partnership. 
These  should  be  clearly  stated 
the  Political 
Declaration  adopted  in  this  meeting  (resolution  66/2, 
annex). 

Finally, we call on the international community to 
include  progress  in  the  fight  against  NCDs  as  a 
component of the MDG-Plus beyond 2015. 
in 
11-50349 

3 
that 
leads 
to 
to  health 
interests.  Health 
for  NCDs  exist 
A/66/PV.4 

The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Chen  Zhu,  Minister  for  Health  of 
China. 
Mr.  Chen Zhu  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  On 

behalf  of  the  Chinese  Government,  I  would  like  to 
extend my deep appreciation to the General Assembly 
for  its  vision  and  political  will  to  convene  the  High-
level  Meeting  on  Non-communicable  Diseases 
(NCDs).  I  also  wish  to  extend  my  appreciation  to  the 
President of the Assembly for his outstanding work in 
organizing this successful meeting. 
Today, globalization has led to an unprecedented 

interdependence  among  countries  and 
level  of 
factors  and 
social 
interwoven 
determinants 
in  every  country. 
Therefore,  the  prevention  and  control  of  NCDs  are  an 
inevitable  option  for  our  common  interests  and  the 
pathway 
the  common 
development of all mankind.  

Member  States  should  take  advantage  of  this 
High-level Meeting to build consensus, adopt scientific 
and  effective  measures  for  prevention  and  treatment 
and actively respond to the challenge of NCDs. To that 
end, I would like to make three proposals. 

First,  we  should  strengthen  our  own  national 
health systems and integrate the health agenda into all 
policy-making  processes.  Governments  should  attach 
as  much 
to  economic 
development.  In  particular,  NCD  prevention  and 
treatment  should  be  made  a  priority  of  national 
development  strategies.  Governments  should  play  a 
leading  role  to  create  a  supportive  environment  with 
favourable  policies,  increase  financial  input,  establish 
multisectoral 
coordination 
mechanisms  and  mobilize  all  sectors  of  society  to 
participate in preventing and treating NCDs. 

international 
collaboration  and  achieve  mutual  complementarity. 
Through mechanisms such as South-South cooperation 
and  the  Brazil,  Russia,  India,  China  and  South Africa 
(BRICS) framework, developing countries should scale 
up 
technological  exchanges  and  sharing  of 
experience.  We  should  continue  to  promote  North-
South dialogue in order to  expand technology transfer 
and financial support from developed economies to the 
developing  world,  according  to  the  needs  of  the 
recipient countries.  
should  enhance 
Secondly,  we 
to  health  as 
cooperation 
importance 
their 

global 
consensus.  The 

The  World  Health  Organization  (WHO)  should 
play  a  leading  role  in  health  governance  in  order  to 
promote  balanced  development  of  the  global  health 
system  and  to  continue  to  build  capacity  for  NCD 
prevention and control. 
Thirdly,  we  need  coordinated  intervention  and  a 

stronger 
international 
community must firmly implement the Action Plan for 
the  Global  Strategy  for  the  Prevention  and  Control  of 
Non-communicable  Diseases.  We  should  embrace 
concepts  such  as  a  healthy  life  expectancy,  as  well  as 
other  more  specific,  measurable  and  universally 
applicable  goals  and  indicators  for  NCD  prevention 
and  control  and  incorporate  them  into  the  Human 
Development  Index.  We  should  continue  to  push  for 
including  NCD  prevention  and  control  as  an  indicator 
in the Millennium Development Goals. 

China  is  home  to  about  one  fifth  of  the  world’s 
population. NCDs have become the number-one threat 
to  the  health  of  the  Chinese  people.  They  currently 
affect  more  than  260  million  Chinese,  accounting  for 
85 per cent of deaths and 69 per cent of the country’s 
disease  burden. Any  rapid  increase  in  NCDs  will  lead 
to a shrinking labour supply, an eroding quality of life 
and  a  growing  socio-economic  burden.  NCDs  have 
become  an  enormous  potential  obstacle  to  China’s 
economic and social development, and we should lose 
no time in preventing and controlling such diseases. 

a 
is  pursuing 
comprehensive, coordinated and sustainable concept of 
scientific  development,  whose  core  is  putting  people 
first.  The  Government  has  announced  that  one  of  the 
core  targets  of  its  twelfth  five-year  plan  for  national 
economic  and  social  development 
increase 
Chinese average life expectancy by one year. Effective 
prevention and treatment of NCDs is a key measure in 
this regard. 

The focus of China’s ongoing health-care reform 
is on achieving universal basic health coverage for the 
country’s  1.3  billion  people.  The  Government  will 
increase investment in the health sector, give priority to 
public  health  and  basic  medical  services,  and 
reprioritize  the  allocation  of  health  resources  in  order 
to help integrate disease prevention with treatment.  

the 
is  forging  ahead  with 
“Healthy City” drive throughout the country, and more 
and  more  local  Governments  have  included  health 
promotion  in  their  development  strategies.  Applying 
The  Chinese  Government 
Currently,  China 
to 
is 
and 
4 

11-50349 
teams 


information  and  communications  technology  in  the 
health  sector,  in  areas  such  as  the  electronic  personal 
health profile project, will enhance the robustness and 
efficiency  of  the  management  of  NCDS  such  as 
hypertension  and  diabetes  and  of  health  care  for  the 
elderly,  both  of  which  are  being  extensively  delivered 
as part of basic public health services in both urban and 
rural areas in China. 

Meanwhile,  the  Chinese  Government  actively 
participates in international exchanges and cooperation 
for  NCD  prevention  and  control.  It  is  working  to 
promote  the  achievement  of  global  initiatives  within 
the  framework  of  the  United  Nations  and  WHO. 
Through  cooperation  mechanisms  such  as  BRICS 
health ministers’ meetings and by maintaining its long-
standing  practice  of  sending  medical 
to 
developing  countries,  China  continues  to  explore  new 
ways  of  cooperating  internationally  in  the  area  of 
prevention and control of NCDs. China spares no effort 
in  providing  medical  assistance  to  the  developing 
world, within the scope of its capacity. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

Her  Excellency  Ms.  Kathleen  Sebelius,  Secretary  for 
Health  and  Human  Services  of  the  United  States  of 
America. 
Ms.  Sebelius  (United  States  of  America):  I  am 

honoured  to  represent  the  United  States  today  at  this 
very important meeting. 

For many years, the international community has 
joined  forces  to  battle  infectious  diseases.  Working 
together, we have reduced the devastating toll taken by 
illnesses  such  as  malaria  and  HIV/AIDS. While  much 
work remains to be done, we have shown that when the 
nations  of  the  world  come  together,  we  can  achieve 
great improvements in health.  
Today,  we  are  here  to  discuss  how  we  can 

marshal 
international  commitment  and 
collaboration to confront chronic diseases, which are a 
growing  burden  for  the  United  States  —  where  they 
account  for  7  out  of  every  10  deaths  —  and  for  so 
many other countries around the world. 

Under  President  Obama,  the  United  States  has 
made  taking  on  chronic  disease  a  major  focus.  Last 
week,  for  example,  we  announced  a  new  initiative  to 
prevent  one  million  heart  attacks  and  strokes  over  the 
next  five  years. And  our  First  Lady,  Michelle  Obama, 
the  same 
A/66/PV.4
is leading a national effort to end childhood obesity in 
a generation.  

We have also made chronic disease a focus in our 
research  and  global  health  programmes.  Later  this 
week, along with other public and private partners, we 
will  be  announcing  a  major  new  Clinton  Global 
Initiative  Commitment  to  help  promote  smoke-free 
workplaces around the world. We are also launching a 
global  public-private  partnership  to  support  tobacco-
cessation efforts, using mobile phone technologies that 
are  now  widely  available  in  middle-  and  low-income 
countries. 

These partnerships reflect our belief that in order 
to  turn  the  tide  on  chronic  disease,  we  must  recruit 
partners  from  outside  government  and  outside  the 
health  sector.  To  stay  healthy,  people  need  more  than 
high-quality  care. They  also  need  clean  air  and  water, 
nutritious,  affordable  food  and  healthy  living  spaces. 
We need to work with partners who can help us achieve 
those goals.  

In the years to come, we must maintain our focus 
on chronic disease, even as we also continue our work 
to  reduce  the  toll  of  infectious  disease  around  the 
world.  The  United  States  welcomes  the  opportunity 
today  to  learn  from  the  public  health  efforts  of  our 
neighbours around the globe and to ask what steps we 
can  take  together  to  reduce  the  burden  of  chronic 
disease on all the people of the world. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Mohammad  Hossein  Niknam, 
Acting  Minister  of  Health  and  Medical  Education  of 
the Islamic Republic of Iran. 
Mr.  Niknam  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  This 

timely  high-level  event  provides  us  with  an  ideal 
platform  for  sharing  views,  information,  ideas  and 
experiences, for coming up with proposals for remedies 
and  for  forging  effective  collaborative  partnerships  in 
the  implementation  of  realistic  but  effective  health 
development programmes in common areas of concern 
relating to non-communicable diseases (NCDs). 
NCDs  have  traditionally  been  more  prevalent  in 

affluent  societies.  However, 
they  are  becoming 
increasingly common in many developing countries, in 
particular  among  less  affluent  groups.  The  Eastern 
Mediterranean region, like others, is suffering a heavy 
burden  of  NCDs,  and  Iran  is  no  exception.  The  total 
burden  of  disease  for  NCDs  in  Iran  is  45  per  cent  for 
11-50349 

5 
A/66/PV.4 

men  and  33  per  cent  for  women.  Being  overweight, 
obesity,  arterial  hypertension, 
inadequate  physical 
activity  and  hypercholesterolemia  are  seen  to  be  the 
greatest risk factors. 

Taking into account this situation and through the 
National  Millennium  Development  Goals  Master  Plan 
and  the  fifth  National  Development  Plan,  Iran  is 
implementing  a  series  of  programmes  and  initiatives 
aimed  at  reducing  the  burden  of  NCDs. Among  these 
programmes,  I  would  like  to  mention  the  prevention 
and  control  of  common  NCD  risk  factors, 
the 
imposition of taxes to curtail unhealthy habits such as 
tobacco  consumption,  the  execution  of  mass  public 
information and educational campaigns, fostering food 
industry  regulations,  and 
the  screening  of  blood 
pressure levels and glucosemia. 

The  Non-Communicable  Diseases  Risk  Factors 
Surveillance  System  was  introduced  in  2004  and  has 
led  to  the  completion  of  six  large-scale  surveillance 
surveys.  Further,  comprehensive  cumulative  national 
data  has  been  compiled,  based  on  age,  sex  and 
location,  to  facilitate  the  effective  monitoring  and 
implementation  of  policies  geared  towards  the  control 
and prevention of NCDs. 

integrated  NCD  control  and  prevention 
programmes  comprise  a  series  of  measures  that  are 
being  implemented.  Among  them,  the  following  are 
noteworthy.  The  cardiovascular  diseases  control 
programme focuses  on reaching out to rural  areas  and 
the myocardial infarction registry. The national cancer 
control  programme  has  a  special  focus  on  colorectal 
and breast cancers. The diabetes control and prevention 
programme  targets  both  rural  and  urban  areas.  The 
national newborn congenital hypothyroidism screening 
programme has coverage of more than 90 per cent. The 
tobacco  control  programme  is  a  major  focus  of  Iran’s 
health policy. The control and prevention of nutritional 
deficiencies  promotes 
fortification 
programmes 
focused  on  promotion  of  physical 
activities.  There  is  also  a  genetic  control  programme, 
an asthma and allergy control programme and, last but 
not least, an osteoporosis care plan. 

to  conclude  my  remarks  by 
mentioning  that,  as  a  sign  of  its  commitment  to 
promoting  regional  and  international  cooperation,  on 
25  and  26  October  2010  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran 
hosted  in Tehran  the  first  regional  meeting  of  a  series 
of World Health Organization regional consultations on 
iodization  and 
The 
I  would 
like 

the prevention and control of NCDs. In our view, only 
through  closer  and  meaningful  collaboration  at  all 
levels, especially in such areas as legislation, resource 
mobilization  and information- and knowledge-sharing, 
will  we  succeed  in  our  endeavour  to  prevent  and 
combat NCDs. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Andrew  Lansley,  Minister  for 
Health of the United Kingdom. 
Mr. Lansley (United Kingdom): More than half a 

century  ago,  our  predecessors  came  together  to  tackle 
the greatest health challenges of their day — infectious 
diseases.  In  subsequent  decades,  their  collective  and 
sustained  actions  saved  the  lives  of  millions.  Our 
efforts to combat infections like malaria and HIV must 
go  on,  but  today  we  also  face  the  new  challenges  of 
non-communicable diseases (NCDs). 

Increasing  and  yet  often  avoidable,  NCDs  were 
previously thought of as diseases of relative affluence. 
In  societies  in  which  development  brings  opportunity, 
they  can  disproportionately  affect  the  poorest  in  our 
societies  and  kill  millions  of  people  every  year.  As 
development  brings  change,  lifestyles  change  too,  as 
does 
to 
environments  and  pressures  that  dramatically  change 
disease  prevalence.  The  human  burden  of  disease  is 
great  and  the  economic  burden  of  non-communicable 
diseases equally so, and it  threatens to overwhelm the 
capacity of our health-care systems. 
We  need  to  act  with  boldness  and  determination 

improve  environments, 
lifestyles  and  choices. 
to 
Promoting  better  health  and  the  prevention  of  NCDs 
can no longer be seen as solely the responsibility of our 
health  departments.  We  need  a  whole-of-Government 
approach  based  on  an  understanding  that,  if  we  are  to 
reduce the burden of these diseases, we must tackle the 
social  determinants  of  health  and  reduce  health 
inequalities. 
Aligning the objectives and actions of all parts of 

national  and  local  Government  and  all  health-care 
providers  behind  a 
set  of  measurable 
outcomes — that is what we are doing in England. We 
have  developed  a  single  outcomes  framework  that 
places  the  emphasis  on  prevention,  improves  the 
environment within which we live to make it healthier, 
gives  health-care  professionals  and  local  communities 
the  freedom  and  resources  to  achieve  these  outcomes, 
and  empowers  individuals  to  take  charge  of  their  own 
the  burden  of  disease,  exposing  people 
simple 
6 

11-50349 
including 
industry, 
together, 


health  with  a  life-course  approach  to  supporting  them 
in  those  decisions,  which  also  brings  all  parts  of  civil 
society 
to  promote 
healthier lives. 

While regulation and taxation both play important 
roles  —  the  United  Kingdom’s  effective  control  of 
smoking and tobacco being an obvious example — in a 
free  society  we  cannot  just  legislate  these  problems 
away.  The  Elimination  of  Obesity  Act  2011  does  not 
and will not exist. 
We need to engage with people and businesses. In 

addition  to  being  part  of  the  problem,  the  food  and 
drinks industry can be part of the solution. In England, 
under  voluntary  agreements 
food  producers  are 
eliminating artificial trans-fats and reducing the levels 
of salt in their food. Drinks companies are reducing the 
amount  of  alcohol  and  restaurants  are  publishing  the 
number  of  calories.  We  have  more  plans,  and  more 
ambitious  plans,  ahead.  Making  the  healthy  choice 
should  not  only  be  the  right  choice;  it  should  be  a 
positive choice, an easy choice, and even a fun choice. 

You cannot inoculate against alcoholism. There is 
no  jab  to  prevent  obesity.  There  is  no  silver  bullet  to 
stop  people  smoking.  But  with  an  emphasis  on 
prevention,  physical  activity  and  personal  and 
corporate  responsibility,  and  with  unified  Government 
action, we can make a big difference. 

I  hope  that,  in  decades  to  come,  our  successors 
will  look  back  and  see  that  now  was  when  the  tide 
began  to  turn.  With  progress  and  development  came 
not only opportunity and increased life expectancy, but 
healthy life expectancy — not just adding years to our 
lives, but life to our years. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Djamal  Ould Abbes,  Minister  for 
Health, Population and Hospital Reform of Algeria. 
Mr. Ould Abbes (Algeria) (spoke in French): At 

the  outset,  I  wish  to  convey  the  warm  greetings  of 
Mr. Abdelaziz Bouteflika, President of the Republic of 
Algeria,  who  had  the  honour  to  preside  over  the 
General Assembly  in  1974.  It  is  an  honour  for  me  to 
participate  in  the  Assembly’s  work  during  the  High-
level  Meeting  on  the  Prevention  and  Control  of 
Non-communicable Diseases. 
In that regard, I  would like to thank the  General 

for  having 
Assembly  and 
convened  this  summit  to  develop  and  implement  a 
the  Secretary-General 
11-50349 

A/66/PV.4
global plan of action for the prevention and control of 
non-communicable diseases (NCDs), in the wake of the 
First  Global  Conference  on  Healthy  Lifestyles  and 
Non-communicable  Disease  Control,  held  in  Moscow 
on  28  and  29  April,  and  other  regional  ministerial 
conferences  held  under  the  auspices  of  the  World 
Health Organization (WHO).  

This summit is of great importance in the light of 
the  significant  increase  in  the  incidence  of  such 
diseases in our countries and their considerable impact 
on  the  costs  to  national  health  systems,  especially  in 
countries  of  the  South,  as  well  as  the  challenges  they 
present  to  equitable  access  to  care,  especially  among 
the  poorest  and  most  disenfranchised  populations.  I 
will not repeat what has been said by previous speakers 
about  the  statistics;  we  all  know  them.  I  will,  rather, 
come directly to two points. 

My  first  point  concerns  my  country,  Algeria, 
where non-communicable diseases affect 10 per cent of 
the general population and 51 per cent  of people over 
60 years of age. Hypertension and diabetes alone affect 
44 per cent of that age group, among whom 30 per cent 
are afflicted with at least one of the diseases and 50 per 
cent require long-term medication. Out of 100,000 persons, 
104  have  cancer.  Of  all  deaths,  non-communicable 
diseases  account  for  58.6  per  cent,  compared  with 
22.7 per  cent  from  communicable  diseases  and  10  per 
cent  from  injury,  violence  or  accident.  Cardiovascular 
diseases cause the most deaths, at 44 per cent, followed 
by  cancer  at  16  per  cent,  respiratory  illness  at  7.6  per 
cent and diabetes at 7.4 per cent.  

In  2003,  the  Algerian  Government  set  up  a 
programme  to  fight  non-communicable  diseases  in  an 
integrated  and  multisectoral  way,  engaging  as  well 
interest  groups  and  civil  society.  Algeria  follows  the 
World Health Organization step-wise regional strategy 
for Africa concerning health risk factors and indicators. 
To fight tobacco use, Algeria ratified and put into force 
the WHO  Framework  Convention  on Tobacco  Control 
in 2007. Algeria has integrated the fight against NCDs 
in  our  national  development  plan,  specifically  as 
regards the health sector, which has entailed significant 
reforms.  Algeria  has  also 
increased  health-care 
funding,  which  now  stands  at  8  per  cent  of  gross 
domestic product — which in 2010 amounted to more 
than  $200 per  capita.  Algeria  recently  established  an 
innovative permanent funding mechanism, reflected in 
the 2011-2012 budget, to finance a special fund to fight 
cancer, and imposed taxes on toxic substances such as 
7 
non-communicable 
diseases 
in 
latest  generation 
radiation 
therapy 
system,  providing 
to 
the  outcomes  of 
Algeria  subscribes 
A/66/PV.4 

tobacco,  alcohol  and  soda.  Algeria  has  launched  a 
sweeping  funding  plan  to  strengthen  capacity  in  the 
health-care 
infrastructure  and 
equipment and increasing human resources.  

To  control  cancer,  which  is  a  global  tragedy, 
Algeria  currently  operates  six  treatment  centres,  to  be 
expanded  to  22  in  2014,  with  the  acquisition  of  57  of 
the 
linear 
accelerators. We  have  also  set  up  72  welcome  centres 
for the care of cancer victims, all of them equipped to 
provide  chemotherapy.  In  the  matter  of  anti-cancer 
drugs, we took urgent action to provide the funding to 
prevent  any  interruption  of  treatment.  All  anti-cancer 
drugs  are  provided  free  of  charge  to  any  Algerian 
citizen.  

the 
Moscow  world  ministerial  conference  of  ministers  of 
health and the Brazzaville regional conference, both of 
which  identified  NCDs  as  a  challenge  of  the  highest 
priority.  Algeria  also  agrees  with  the  proposal  to 
include 
future 
Millennium Development Goals. Along those lines, we 
believe  that  the  problem  of  access  to  drugs  to  combat 
non-communicable  diseases 
should  be  directly 
addressed,  and  that  innovative  mechanisms  should  be 
created to ensure such access, especially in developing 
countries.  

the 
establishment of a global fund for NCDs, especially for 
cancer. The international  community  must  mobilize  to 
aid growth in the poorest countries and to help reduce 
their dependence in the matter of access to medicine by 
supporting their respective domestic industries.  

A  second  subject  I  would  like  to  address  is  one 
about  which  I  am  passionate.  While  terrorism  is  a 
brutal, violent killer, with its blood and destruction and 
its  bombs’  hellish  blasts,  non-communicable  diseases 
as  a  whole,  and  cancer  in  particular,  do  their  deadly 
work  in  grisly  silence.  We  watch,  powerless,  as  that 
global tragedy unfolds before us. So, what can we do, 
especially about the world citizens of the South, and in 
particular Africa?  
First and foremost, we must grant them access to 

information,  preventive  tools,  preliminary  screening 
tests  and  early  diagnosis,  as  well  as  radiation  and 
chemotherapy. We know that for those who survive — 
I  will  not  call  it  “live”  —  on  $100  a  month,  cancer 
treatments  costing  $50,000  a  year  are  entirely  out  of 
that  end,  we  strongly 
recommend 
To 
8 


reach.  To  earn  $50,000  those  people  would  have  to 
work  42  years  —  for  one  year’s  treatment.  That  is 
completely  surreal,  lunatic  and  unacceptable.  We  do 
not  have  the  moral  or  human  right  to  sit  by,  doing 
nothing, and watch the horrific slaughter.  

We  must  therefore  enlist  our  imaginations  and 
creativity. Let us hope that the United Nations and the 
World  Health  Organization  will  embrace  and  promote 
the  idea  of  a  global  anti-cancer  fund.  It  would  be  a 
vivid beacon of hope for the women and men who have 
high  hopes  for  this  historic  meeting,  especially  on  the 
continent  of  Africa.  We  do  not  have  the  moral  or 
human right to do nothing. Let us take action to ensure 
that  every  human  being  can  end  his  or  her  life  in 
dignity, rather than in disaster and ruin. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His Excellency Mr. Yerzhan Kazykhanov, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Kazakhstan. 
Mr.  Kazykhanov  (Kazakhstan):  Modern  society 

has  come  to  understand  the  close  connection  between 
the  quality,  conditions  and  way  of  life  of  people  and 
sustainable  development.  Improving  quality  of  life  is 
not  only  a  goal  in  itself  but  also  an  important 
contribution to social development and to attaining the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  Our  goal  is 
to stop the growing trend of premature mortality from 
chronic  and  non-communicable  diseases,  which  still 
remains  a  serious  obstacle  for  achieving  sustainable 
development  in  the  twenty-first  century  and  is  an 
important priority on the global agenda. 
Kazakhstan  is  highly  committed  to  the  World 

Health  Organization  (WHO)  2008-2013  Action  Plan 
for the Global Strategy for the Prevention and Control 
of  Non-Communicable  Diseases.  We  support 
the 
efforts  of  WHO  to  cooperate  with  its  international 
partners  to  ensure  the  monitoring  of  non-communicable 
diseases at the national, regional and global levels. The 
efforts  of  WHO 
in  scientific  research  and  data 
collection  have  made  it  possible  to  significantly  raise 
the standard of non-communicable disease control. 

We believe that a wider scope and higher quality 
of  medical  and  sanitary  measures  to  remove  the  risk 
factors  in  public  health  care  are  the  most  effective 
methods  in  lowering  the  incidence  of  non-communicable 
diseases.  Therefore  we  encourage WHO  and  UNICEF 
to  continue  to  develop  the  principles  laid  down  in  the 
1978 Almaty  Declaration  on  Primary  Health  Care. As 
mentioned  in  the  Declaration,  primary  medical  and 
11-50349 
in 
in 
services, 
comprehensive 
Our  country  has  achieved  success 


sanitary  help  still  continues  to  be  the  best  model  for 
providing 
including 
prevention and diagnosis in the early stages and long-
term  medical  help  through  the  engagement  of  civil 
society. 

The Government of Kazakhstan continues to give 
high  priority  in  our  national  plans  to  the  control  of 
non-communicable  diseases  through  strengthening  the 
health-care  system.  Significant  measures  have  been 
taken  for  greater  vigilance  and  control  over  tobacco 
products and lowering excessive alcohol consumption, 
and  promoting  physical  activities  and  healthy  eating 
habits.  

the 
implementation  of  the  WHO  Framework  Convention 
on Tobacco Control. We have also adopted the Code on 
Health  and  Health  Care  and  launched  a  large-scale 
national  programme  titled  Healthy  Kazakhstan  2010, 
which is aimed at promoting a healthy way of life. Our 
health-care  system  has  adequate  financing  at  the  level 
of  3.2 per  cent  of  the  GDP.  In  2013,  we  plan  to 
introduce a unified national health-care system, which 
will provide a new model of financing for a guaranteed 
volume of free and result-oriented medical help. 

In conclusion, let me express my confidence that 
we  will  achieve  sustained  long-term  progress  in  the 
fight  against  non-communicable  diseases 
the 
framework  of  internationally  agreed  goals,  including 
the MDGs. 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mwai  Kibaki, 
President of the Republic of Kenya. 
President  Kibaki:  Let  me  take  this  opportunity 

to  congratulate  the  United  Nations  for  organizing  this 
High-level  Meeting  to  discuss  the  prevention  and 
control of non-communicable diseases globally. 

Non-communicable  diseases  are  a  major  public 
health  concern  in  Kenya.  Over  50  per  cent  of  all 
hospital admissions and over half of all hospital deaths 
are due to such diseases. Heart diseases are responsible 
for  13  per  cent  of  overall  mortality,  while  cancer  and 
diabetes contribute 7 and 4 per cent respectively. 
In  response  to  this  reality,  Kenya  has  taken 

preventive  and  curative  measures 
the 
growing  burden  of  non-communicable  diseases.  The 
country  has  established  45  diabetes  comprehensive-
care  clinics  and  has  trained  more  than  3,000  medical 
to  address 
A/66/PV.4
Some  of  our  preventive  actions  had 
practitioners  in  the  management  and  prevention  of 
diabetes. 

to  be 
anchored  on  legislative  frameworks.  In  2007,  for 
example, Parliament enacted the Tobacco Control Law, 
which bans smoking in all public places. The law now 
prohibits tobacco advertisement and the sale of tobacco 
products  to  persons  under  21  years  old.  In  2010  we 
passed the Alcoholic Drink Control Act to regulate the 
production,  sale  and  consumption  of  alcoholic  drinks. 
And  recently,  Kenya  launched  the  National  Cancer 
Strategy  and  is  now  finalizing  a  draft  cancer  bill  to 
comprehensively  guide  the  control  and  treatment  of 
cancer. 

Despite  these  efforts,  serious  challenges  stand  in 
our  way  as  we  try  to  set  up  adequate  systems  to  deal 
with non-communicable diseases. This is due to many 
other priorities competing for our limited resources. 
Non-communicable  diseases  are  a  major  barrier 

to  economic  growth  and  social  development.  Their 
prevention  and  control  must,  therefore,  be  integrated 
into national and global development agendas. It is my 
hope  that  this  meeting  will  reflect  on  strategies  to 
strengthen  our  health  systems, 
institute  effective 
control  measures  and  improve  access  to  essential 
medicines,  screening  services  and  rehabilitation,  as 
well as to provide long-term medical care to patients. 

that  effective 
technologies are still out of reach for many developing 
countries. We therefore encourage the establishment of 
partnerships  and  international  collaborations  that  will 
facilitate  the  transfer  of  appropriate  and  affordable 
technology. 

In  Kenya,  the  Government  encourages  private 
players in the health sector to establish specialist units 
and  hospitals  that  deal  with  these  diseases.  However, 
the cost of essential medicines and technologies for the 
treatment  of  cancer,  diabetes  and  heart  diseases 
remains  beyond  the  reach  of  most  patients.  The 
challenge is indeed enormous, but it can be  addressed 
through  measures  such  as  the  Agreement  on  Trade-
Related  Aspects  of  Intellectual  Property  Rights  under 
the  World  Trade  Organization.  That  would  enable  the 
manufacture  of,  and  access  to,  medicines  and  related 
products. 

In conclusion, this meeting must be the beginning 
of  concrete  international  commitments  towards  the 
to  point  out 
important 
is 
It 
11-50349 

9 

A/66/PV.4 

prevention,  control  and  treatment  of  non-communicable 
diseases.  It  is  my  hope  that  this  summit  will  come  up 
with  appropriate  strategies,  with  specific  targets  and 
indicators,  for  dealing  with  these  diseases.  Most 
important,  we  must  commit  our  Governments  to 
strengthening  our  health  systems  and  improve  the 
health  of  our  nations  for  the  sake  of  sustainable 
development. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Jean  Asselborn,  Deputy  Prime 
Minister of Luxembourg. 
Mr. Asselborn (Luxembourg) (spoke in French): 

I  would  of  course  like  to  fully  align  myself  with  the 
statement  made  by  Commissioner  Dalli  on  behalf  of 
the European Union. 
This  first  High-level  Meeting  of  the  General 

Assembly  on 
the  Prevention  and  Control  of 
Non-communicable Diseases goes back to an initiative 
taken by the Caribbean Community, which I would like 
to  commend.  Luxembourg  is  proud  to  have  been  able 
to  contribute  actively,  alongside  Jamaica, 
the 
elaboration of the Political Declaration we adopted this 
morning by consensus (resolution 66/2, annex). 

I  am  convinced  that  the  issue  of non-communicable 
diseases  has  now  emerged  from  the  shadows.  In  the 
past,  non-communicable  diseases  were  often  obscured 
or 
impact  on 
development  went  unrecognized.  However,  we  know 
that these diseases strike a double blow to socio-economic 
development.  They  provoke  a  significant  loss  in 
national revenue and drag millions of people below the 
poverty line, which of course results in a huge loss of 
human life. 

Since  non-communicable  diseases  affect  all 
countries, 
this  challenge  must 
necessarily  be  global  and  universal.  It  requires 
unequalled political commitment. It is therefore crucial 
that this matter be placed on the agenda of the General 
Assembly here in New York. 

It  is  also  important  to  take  full  advantage  of  the 
work done in Geneva under the leadership of the World 
Health  Organization  (WHO).  I  refer  notably  to  the 
WHO Framework Convention on Tobacco Control and 
to  the  strategies  developed  to  fight  the  four  main 
non-communicable  diseases  and 
their  shared  risk 
factors. 
ill  understood,  and 
their  negative 
response 
the 
to 
to 
is 
are 
that 
stringent 
education, 
agriculture, 
Luxembourg 
is  already  answering 
Our  approach  must  first  stress  the  prevention  of 

non-communicable  diseases,  as 
the  most 
effective and efficient way to obtain concrete results. It 
must  also  be  multisectoral,  by  promoting  health  in  all 
policies.  Health, 
sports, 
environment, trade and industry — the policies pursued in 
all those areas, among others, have a direct impact on the 
effectiveness  of  our  response  to  a  non-communicable 
disease crisis of epidemic proportions. 
Finally,  we  must  establish  sustainable  health 

systems  by  ensuring  continued 
financing,  good 
governance,  adequate  training  for  medical  personnel, 
universal  health  insurance  and  access  to  essential 
medicines.  These 
requirements, 
particularly  at  a  time  of  economic  crisis,  but  that  also 
call  for  solidarity  and  equity.  To  establish  sustainable 
health systems means supporting the right of everyone 
to  the  enjoyment  of  the  highest  possible  standard  of 
health  —  a  fundamental  right 
to  which  we  all 
subscribe. 

the  call 
contained  in  the  Political  Declaration.  The  issue  of 
non-communicable  diseases  is  included  in  the  health 
sector strategy of our development cooperation policy. 
Health  is  a  priority  to  which  we  devote  more  than 
11 per  cent  of  our  official  development  assistance, 
which  in  turn  represented  1.09  per  cent  of  our  gross 
national income in 2010. 

For  many  years,  Luxembourg  has  contributed  to 
strengthening  health  systems  in  its  partner  countries, 
for  instance  in  Laos  and  in  Senegal.  In  Mongolia,  we 
are supporting a major programme for the development 
of  cardiovascular  health  care,  using  the  innovative 
approach  of  telemedicine.  We  also  make  increasing 
annual  contributions  to  WHO  to  support  its  strategic 
objective  of 
targeting  chronic  non-communicable 
diseases in developing countries. 

In conclusion, allow me to welcome the fact that, 
after the first steps we have taken today at this meeting 
of  the  General  Assembly,  other  steps  will  follow. 
Thanks  to  the  Political  Declaration  we  have  adopted, 
adequate  follow-up  will  be  ensured  in  the  years  to 
come. I would like to assure the General Assembly that 
Luxembourg will continue to participate in this global 
effort 
to  prevent  and  control  non-communicable 
diseases. 
10 

11-50349 


The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Aaron  Motsoaledi,  Minister  for 
Health of South Africa. 
Mr.  Motsoaledi  (South  Africa):  As  a  Member 

State of the United Nations, South Africa congratulates 
the President for putting this item on the agenda of the 
General Assembly. We also welcome the report by the 
Secretary-General  on  non-communicable  diseases 
(NCDs) (A/66/83).  
South  Africa  recognizes  the  need  for  combating 

to  be  regarded  as  a 
non-communicable  diseases 
development priority, rather than only a health concern. 
It is the view of the South African Government that  a 
health-only  approach  will  be  unable  to  reverse  the 
global mortality and burden due to non-communicable 
diseases,  but  that  a  whole-of-Government  and  whole-
of-society approach is needed. 

The  Assembly  must  be  reminded  that  in  Africa, 
and  in  Southern  Africa  in  particular,  communicable 
diseases,  specifically AIDS,  remain  the  primary  cause 
of  mortality.  In  South  Africa  the  mortality  rate  has 
nearly doubled over the past decade, mainly as a result 
of  HIV  and  AIDS.  That  has  contributed  to  massive 
human,  social  and  economic  consequences.  Although 
significant  progress  in  tackling  HIV  and  AIDS  has 
been  made,  HIV  is  now  also  a  chronic  disease. 
Considerably  more  investment  is  still  needed  to  turn 
the tide of these twin epidemics. It is critical, therefore, 
that as global and national priorities expand, we ensure 
that  we  pay  adequate  attention  to  the  prevention  and 
control  of  both  communicable  and  non-communicable 
diseases,  as  well  as  to  achieving  the  Millennium 
Development Goals. 

I  shall  provide  just  a  few  examples  of  risk 
reduction  and  control  of  NCDs  in  my  country.  Many 
representatives  may  be  aware  that  South  Africa  has 
been  one  of 
the 
implementation  of  the  Framework  Convention  on 
Tobacco  Control.  We  will  continue  to  strengthen 
legislation to further reduce the impact of tobacco use. 

On improving surveillance, South Africa recently 
adopted  regulations  making  the  reporting  of  cancers 
compulsory.  South  Africa  has  also 
just  adopted 
regulations  to  reduce  the  use  of  trans-fats,  and  is 
currently drawing up regulations to reduce salt content 
in  processed  foods.  With  a  view  to  a  whole-of-
Government  and  development  approach 
the 
prevention  and  control  of  NCDs,  an  inter-ministerial 
countries  on 
leading 
the 
to 
A/66/PV.4
to 
At  a 
screening  and  access 
committee  made  up  of  nine  ministers  has  been 
established  to  come  up  with  legislative  and  other 
solutions to combat harm from alcohol and other drugs. 

recent  summit  on  non-communicable 
diseases held in preparation for this meeting, the South 
African  Government  and  its  partners  from  various 
sectors  set  a  range  of  targets  to  prevent  and  control 
NCDs.  In  that  context,  South  Africa  welcomes  the 
Political  Declaration  (resolution  66/2,  annex)  and 
pledges  its  commitment  to  the  attainment  of  its  goals 
and to working with the World Health Organization to 
develop global targets. In order to achieve such targets, 
effective partnerships need to be established to increase 
prevention, 
treatment 
technologies,  including  affordable  vaccines,  diagnostics 
and drugs. 

To  prevent  non-communicable  diseases  globally, 
South Africa urges the international community to put 
pressure  on  the  food  industry  to  reduce  harmful 
foodstuffs,  promote  healthy  eating  habits  worldwide 
and increase pressure on the alcohol industry to reduce 
the  harmful  effects  of  alcohol  —  for  example,  by 
ceasing  to  advertise  what  is  for  many  a  highly 
dangerous  product. All  partners  must  also  collaborate 
to achieve a tobacco-free world. 

reducing 
non-communicable  diseases  requires  attention  to  a 
number  of  broad  social,  economic  and  behavioural 
determinants of health involving many sectors, and that 
combating both communicable and non-communicable 
diseases in an integrated and comprehensive manner is 
fundamental to both improved health and development. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

Her  Excellency  Ms.  Agnes  Binagwaho,  Minister  of 
Health of Rwanda. 
Ms.  Binagwaho  (Rwanda):  This  summit  is  a 

watershed in the health of our global population. Let us 
not forget what happened in this very Hall 10 years ago 
during  the  2001  special  session  on  HIV/AIDS.  That 
meeting fundamentally changed the way that HIV was 
fought  in  developing  countries.  It  was  also  a  starting 
point for access to treatment for HIV-positive people. 
are 
targeting  non-communicable 

Now  we 
diseases,  which 
include  cardiovascular  disorders, 
diabetes, cancer, chronic respiratory diseases and many 
other illnesses. That is very important, because we can 
no  longer  ignore  their  significance  as  contributors  to 
My  main  message 
today 
is 
that 
11-50349 

11 

Over 
A/66/PV.4 

morbidity and mortality in Africa. In fact, it is in low- 
and  middle-income  countries  that  many  are  suffering 
from these diseases. 

We  all  know  that  non-communicable  diseases 
contribute  to  poverty  in  a  vicious  circle,  creating  a 
barrier  to  socio-economic  development  and  affecting 
economies  of  countries  like  Rwanda  through  the 
absenteeism caused by those diseases. 

the  past  decade,  Rwanda  has  made 
significant  progress  towards  the  prevention,  treatment 
and  control  of  communicable  diseases,  and  we  are  on 
track  towards  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  Thanks  to  that  effort,  Rwanda  has  seen  under-
five  mortality  reduced  by  more  than  half,  and  under 
one-year  mortality  reduced  by  more  than  42  per  cent. 
We  have  also  achieved  universal  access  to  HIV 
treatment  and  we  can  now  treat  HIV  as  a  chronic 
disease.  
We  have  strengthened  our  health  sector,  so  that 

95  per  cent  of  Rwandans  benefit  from  insurance  and 
from  performance-based  financing  across  the  whole 
health sector. That success is going to help us to build 
programmes to fight non-communicable diseases. Now 
that  we  have  a  life  expectancy  of  over  50  years,  we 
plan to tackle hypertension, cardiac disease and all the 
other diseases I mentioned earlier. 
I  should  also  note  that  Rwanda  is  aware  of  the 

need  to  both  treat  and  protect  the  population  against 
the emerging risk factors that accompany urbanization, 
the  globalization  of  trade  and  marketing  and  the 
progressive increase in unhealthy lifestyles — a pattern 
that can be seen in so many industrialized countries. 

We intend to begin our research on the prevalence 
of  non-communicable  diseases  in  Rwanda  next  year, 
but  we  already  know  that  non-communicable  diseases 
can  account  for  approximately  25  per  cent  of  the 
country’s  disease  burden.  Based  on  that  figure,  unless 
we  systematically  and  strategically  address  our  care 
and  delivery  for  non-communicable  diseases,  we  will 
continue to have a significant gap in our current health- 
care system. We will never achieve full development if 
we do not seriously tackle non-communicable diseases. 

At this moment, most of our citizens must simply 
endure  non-communicable  diseases,  since  they  cannot 
afford  treatment.  That  was  once  the  case  for  HIV, 
malaria  and  tuberculosis.  We  want  to  make  what  is 
unaffordable  today  history.  Without  decreasing  the 
12 

attention we currently give communicable diseases, we 
want to tackle non-communicable diseases.  

We  have  begun  by  creating  several  departments 
to  coordinate  the  fight  against  non-communicable 
diseases  and  by  developing  several  initial  strategies 
and  policies.  We  have  adopted  a  law  prohibiting 
smoking  in  public  areas.  We  have  taxed  tobacco  and 
reserved  a  part  of  the  revenues  for  the  welfare  of  the 
population.  And  we  have  begun  to  provide  specific 
services,  especially  for  fighting  cancer,  by  designing 
national  programmes  for  human  papilloma  virus 
detection and vaccination, as well as for breast cancer 
detection. But that is just the beginning; we want to go 
further. 

I  remember  how,  in  the  case  of  HIV  and  other 
communicable  diseases,  we  began  in  a  similarly  slow 
fashion. We now have universal access. That gives me 
hope.  Since  we  have  managed  to  reduce  mother-to-
child  transmission  of  HIV  to  less  than  2  per  cent,  I 
believe  that  global  solidarity  can  help  all  countries 
combat  all  those  diseases.  Certainly,  that  will  require 
more  doctors,  more  nurses,  more  drugs  and  greater 
laboratory capacity, but also more solidarity. 
 The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Leslie  Ramsammy,  Minister  of 
Health of Guyana. 
Mr.  Ramsammy  (Guyana):  With  the  convening 

of  this  High-level  Meeting  on  non-communicable 
diseases  (NCDs)  and  the  adoption  of  the  Political 
Declaration  (resolution  66/2,  annex),  NCDs  have  now 
rightly  assumed  a  place  of  prominence  as  a  global 
threat that needs to be addressed as an emergency. The 
world now appropriately acknowledges that the NCDs 
constitute  a  new  front  in  the  fight  to  promote  global 
public health and in the fight against poverty.  

We  offer  congratulations  to  the  co-facilitators, 
Ambassador Wolfe  of  Jamaica  and Ambassador  Lucas 
of  Luxembourg,  for  guiding  the  negotiations,  which 
culminated in a consensus document on a timely basis. 

Guyana  recognized  at  an  early  stage  that  the 
efficacy  of  the  efforts  pursued  at  the  national  level 
needed  to  be  complemented  by  regional  and  global 
consideration and action. Guyana has played an active 
role in advancing the NCD agenda at the regional and 
global  levels,  calling  since  2001  for  a  Millennium 
Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  expansion  —  an 
MDG+ —  to  include  globally  led  agreements  for  the 
11-50349 
to 
safe, 
and 
stakeholders 
it  will  be  recalled 


fight  against  NCDs,  and  making  it  a  focus  during  its 
presidency  of  the  sixty-first  session  of  the  World 
Health Assembly. 

Guyana has worked with other member States of 
the  Caribbean  Community  (CARICOM)  to  ensure  a 
regionally  coordinated  response  to  NCDs.  In  this 
regard, 
that  CARICOM  was 
instrumental  in  facilitating  the  General  Assembly’s 
consideration  of  the  issue  of  NCDs.  It  was  not 
accidental.  The  decision  was  informed  by  the  gravity 
of the development challenge that NCDs posed for all 
CARICOM member States. 

The Declaration contains many measures that will 
save lives in the short term and contribute to creating a 
healthy  society,  which  will  assist  in  the  prevention  of 
NCDs  in  future  and  assist  also  in  reducing  and 
eliminating  poverty.  We  therefore  call  for  the  full 
implementation  of  the  Political  Declaration,  including 
early  agreement  on  global 
targets,  a  monitoring 
framework  and  a  substantive  and  collaborative 
partnership  of  global 
facilitate 
continued action on NCDs; a call for greater access to 
affordable, 
quality-assured 
medicines,  and  improved  access  to  palliative  and 
rehabilitative  services,  particularly  at  the  community 
level;  reoriented  trade  and  agricultural  policies  to 
facilitate  the  provision  of  healthy  local  foods;  and  the 
provision  of  increased  and  sustained  human,  financial 
and  technical  resources  from  all  sources,  including 
through innovative approaches. 

For  that  reason,  we  call  on  Member  States  to 
work together to support the follow-up processes, such 
as  the  development  of  national  plans  by  2013,  the 
development of global targets and indicators, including 
the  overall  goal  of  reducing  preventable  deaths  from 
NCDs  by  25  per  cent  by  2025;  and  to  monitor  trends 
and assess the progress made in the implementation of 
national strategies and plans. 

Guyana supports the appointment of an envoy or 
representative  on  NCDs  to  promote  aggressive  action 
and to foster national and regional collaboration. 

We  believe  that  greater  consideration  must  be 
given  to  the  existing  MDG  Goal  8,  target  8e  and 
indicator  13,  to  meet  the  need  for  better  access  to 
affordable, 
and 
diagnostics. Similarly, existing MDGs address the need 
for 
expanded 
quality  medicines, 
technology 
improved 
nutrition, 
effective 
better 
and 
A/66/PV.4
to 
that 
join  us 
the  world 
Guyana  calls  for 
the  global  minimum  standard 
immunization,  elimination  of  gender  disparities  and 
improved environmental control. 

We  need  more  robust  implementation  of  the 
World  Health  Organization’s  2003  Framework 
Convention  on  Tobacco  Control  (2003).  Guyana 
believes 
for 
trans-fats  and  salt  are  appropriate  global  actions  and 
that we must not be shy in applying such standards. We 
believe that the Global Strategy to Reduce the Harmful 
Use  of  Alcohol  must  be  strictly  applied,  and  we 
support the call for a global no-alcohol day.  

in 
celebrating  Caribbean  Wellness  Day  on  the  second 
Saturday of September each year, a day established by 
the  Caribbean  heads  of  Government  at  their  Summit 
held  in  Port  of  Spain  in  2007.  We  must  agree  on  a 
package of publicly guaranteed health-care services for 
NCDs 
that  becomes  an  entitlement  for  citizens 
everywhere. 

While  Guyana  is  grateful  that  the  High-level 
Meeting  has  now  made  a  response  to  the  NCDs  a 
priority  development  issue,  we  are  disappointed  that 
there  are  only  references  to  the  neuropsychiatric 
disorders.  We  believe  that  these  disorders  have  too 
great  an  impact  on  the  disease  burden  and  should  be 
given  more  consideration  at  the  global  level  than  is 
presently provided for. 
The President took the Chair. 

The President (spoke in Arabic): I now give the 

floor  to  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Nicola  Roxon,  Minister 
for Health and Ageing of Australia. 
Ms.  Roxon  (Australia): Australia  is  delighted  to 

be participating in this historic United Nations meeting 
on the global challenge of non-communicable diseases 
(NCDs).  NCDs  pose  a  growing  threat  to  our  health 
systems, our societies and our economies. And because 
NCDs  strike  already  disadvantaged  communities  and 
countries  harshly,  the  threat  of  NCDs  risks  further 
entrenching  poverty  and  disadvantage  around 
the 
world.  So  we  must  act  now,  or  too  many  people  will 
continue  to  suffer  and  die  from  illnesses  that  are 
largely preventable, and our health systems simply will 
not cope. 

strongly 
committed  to  action  on  non-communicable  diseases, 
internationally and at home. In Australia, we have put 
prevention  of  chronic  disease,  and  strengthening  our 
The  Australian  Government 
is 
11-50349 

13 

A/66/PV.4 

primary-care  system  to  better  treat  NCDs,  at  the  very 
core of our Government’s health reform agenda. 

We are taking action on a range of fronts: through 
research  and  social  marketing  campaigns,  and  support 
for  preventative  health  efforts  across  Governments, 
industry  and  the  broader  community.  We  are  also 
providing  support  to  developing  countries  to  prevent 
and better control NCDs, especially in our own region, 
the  Pacific,  which  has  some  of  the  highest  NCD  rates 
in the world. 
At  the  global  level,  I  am  pleased  to  announce 

today that Australia will provide a further $4 million to 
the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO)  to  implement 
its  Action  Plan  for  the  Global  Strategy  for  the 
Prevention 
and  Control  of  Non-communicable 
Diseases  as  part  of  the  approximately  $4  billion  on 
health  assistance  to  developing  countries  that  we  will 
provide over the next five years. 
Australia is also building on our existing work on 

NCDs in the Pacific with a $25 million commitment to 
help  Pacific  island  countries  tackle  these  problems, 
focused  on  building  the  evidence  base  for  effective 
interventions  and  cost-effective  prevention  strategies, 
and addressing the wider social determinants of health. 

Today, I want to talk in particular about an issue 
which  is  a  major  focus  for Australia:  tobacco  control. 
Unlike on other risk factors, the evidence on tobacco is 
crystal-clear.  We  know 
the  research 
evidence  is  unequivocal.  If  we  do  not  take  steps  to 
tackle  tobacco,  WHO  estimates  that  the  number  of 
people  dying  each  year  from  tobacco-related  illness 
will  rise  from  nearly  6  million  per  year  now  to  more 
than 8 million by 2030. 

Australian  Governments  have  for  many  years 
been  tough  on  smoking  by  world  standards.  We  are 
now taking this strong record of comprehensive action 
further  with  the  world’s  first  plain-packaging  laws  for 
tobacco.  From  next  year,  all  tobacco  products  in 
Australia will be sold in packs that will be required to 
have the same packaging, in the same unattractive dark 
brown colour. Graphic health warnings will cover most 
of the pack. There will be no brands, no logos and no 
colours. In fact, I have a mock-up here of what tobacco 
packs will look like in Australia when these laws come 
into effect next year.  

Australia is the first country to have taken up the 
WHO  challenge  to  take  this  step. As  a  result,  the  Big 
the  harms; 
Tobacco  giants  are  fighting  desperately, 
through 
massive  advertising  campaigns  and  threats  of  legal 
action. They are fighting vigorously because they know 
that plain packaging will hurt them by reducing sales. 
And they know that if Australia succeeds in being the 
first  country  to  implement  these  laws,  we  will  not  be 
the last. 

The Australian Government is very confident that 
we can withstand these threats and challenges. In fact, 
the  more  the  tobacco  companies  fight,  the  more  we 
know we are on the right track. 

Fighting  back,  as  Dr.  Chan  said  this  morning, 
against  Big  Tobacco  requires  resources  and  political 
will.  But saving lives and improving the health of the 
global community is an investment that will pay a huge 
dividend. I therefore urge all members to consider how 
their  countries  can  take  the  next  steps  too,  using  the 
Framework  Convention  on  Tobacco  Control  as  the 
mechanism  for  reform. The  fight  against  Big Tobacco 
is one which, together, we can win. 
The President (spoke in Arabic): I now give the 

floor to His Excellency Mr. John Seakgosing, Minister 
for Health of Botswana. 
Mr. Seakgosing (Botswana): Non-communicable 

diseases  (NCDs)  —  cardiovascular  diseases,  diabetes, 
cancer and chronic respiratory diseases — account for 
more than 60 per cent of global deaths, of which 80 per 
cent  occur 
in  developing  countries.  The  main 
contributing  factors  to  these  diseases  —  lack  of 
physical  activity,  poor  nutrition,  smoking  and  alcohol 
use  —  are  on  the  rise  all  over  the  world.  Underlying 
factors,  such  as  the  ageing  of  the  population  and  the 
modernization  of  our  societies,  are  also  steadily 
contributing  to  the  ever-growing  burden  of  NCD  risk 
factors,  disabilities  and  deaths. While  the  burden  may 
seem  insurmountable,  we  should  not  be  discouraged. 
We  can  have  a  tremendous  impact  on  NCDs  and 
associated 
a 
comprehensive  approach  that  focuses  not  only  on 
improving  knowledge 
awareness,  but  on 
reformulating 
laws,  regulations  and 
environments  that  govern  our  behaviours,  as  well  as 
putting 
in  place  a  health-care  system 
that  can 
adequately detect and manage these diseases. 

The  Botswana  delegation  is  honoured  to  attend 
this  High-level  Meeting  and  aligns  itself  with  the 
outcome  document  (resolution  66/2,  annex)  related  to 
the  rising  epidemic  and  its  impact  on  the  social  and 
and 
the  policies, 
implementing 
by 
risk 
factors 
14 

11-50349 
The  Government  of  Botswana  supports 


economic  development  of  countries  around  the  world. 
National  surveys  and  selected  studies  conducted  in 
Botswana indicate that NCDs and their risk factors are 
prevalent — specifically, tobacco use, alcohol use and 
unhealthy diets. 

While  Botswana  is  viewed  as  a  middle-income 
country  that  has  achieved  significant  milestones  in 
health  and  development,  we  need  to  ensure  that  the 
progress  we  have  made  is  not  reversed  by  the  rising 
tide  of  NCDs  and  diminishing  investment.  It  is 
important  that  resources  be  increased  at  the  national, 
regional and international levels. 

the 
recognition  of  the  dual  burden  of  communicable  and 
non-communicable  diseases. The  public  health  burden 
of  NCDs  and  appropriate  ways  by  which  to  intervene 
pose  unique  challenges  to  developing  and  middle-
income countries. 
In Botswana, we are still experiencing high rates 

of  morbidity  and  mortality  due  to  communicable 
diseases  such  as  HIV/AIDS,  tuberculosis  and  malaria. 
We  must  not  ignore  these  continued  threats,  but  build 
on past successes to face the new public health threats 
of the twenty-first century. 

We  welcome  the  assertion  that  the  whole  of 
society,  and  not  just  Governments  alone,  needs  to 
respond  to  this  epidemic.  Coordination  from  the 
highest  level  of  Governments  and  concerted  efforts 
from  many  other  sectors  of  society  —  the  private 
sector,  civil  society  and  industry  —  are  required  to 
mount  a  comprehensive  public  health  response  to 
NCDs. 

As  we  continue  to  develop  and  implement  our 
NCD  strategy  in  Botswana,  one  of  our  main  priorities 
is  to  establish  a  broad-based  coalition  that  includes 
representatives from many sectors of our society. That 
would be an important effort that would lead to greater 
ownership  and  sustainability  of  the  interventions  and 
policies we intend to implement. 

What is very clear is that we can no longer ignore 
the importance of NCDs and their impact on the global 
population and their quality of life. In order to address 
the  public  health  crisis  effectively, 
I  challenge 
everyone here today to set a bold course for the future. 
We must not be afraid of facing the problem head on. 
Botswana  has  experience 
this  regard,  having 
instituted  a  40  per  cent  levy  on  alcohol  and  increased 
in 
A/66/PV.4
led 
time-bound 
targets  related 
to 
For 
lived  with 
those  of  us  who  have 
its  enforcement  of  laws  that  help  to  prevent  alcohol 
abuse.  

We are in the process of writing a similar type of 
law with regard to tobacco use, which will be more in 
line  with  the  World  Health  Organization  Framework 
Convention  on  Tobacco  Control.  We  intend  to  take  a 
hard  look  at  the  levels  of  sodium  in  our  food  supply. 
This  is  not  an  easy  path  to  take,  I  can  assure  the 
Assembly,  but  it  is  the  right  one.  Those  legislative 
initiatives,  coupled  with  supportive  interventions  and 
programmes,  will  ensure  our  success  for  the  future.  I 
have  no  doubt  that  we  will  be  contributing  to  a 
healthier tomorrow. 

the 
significant  burden  of  HIV/AIDS,  we  remember  a 
similar  meeting  10  years  ago,  which 
to  a 
comprehensive response to the epidemic. Last June, at 
the High-level Meeting on AIDS, world leaders agreed 
on  bold  new 
the 
prevention  of  new  HIV  infections,  increasing  the 
number  of  people  on 
treatment  and  decreasing 
tuberculosis-related deaths associated with HIV. 
We  again  find  ourselves  called  together  to  bring 

much-needed  global  attention  to  a  significant  health 
issue. Yet, where are the targets related to NCDs? How 
would we know that we are on the right path without a 
well  identified  finish  line? What  should  we  strive  for, 
if there is no light at the end of the tunnel? And where 
and  how  do  we  get  the  resources  to  achieve  our 
targets? 
Many  competing  interests  await  all  of  us  when 

we  return  home.  What  we  decide  and  agree  upon 
during this meeting will help us as Government leaders 
to  set  a  national  course  for  NCD  prevention  and 
control. 

Let me conclude by saying, let us not be deterred 
by the scope of the problem. Let us not be swayed by 
competing  priorities.  Let  us  be  bold  in  the  face  of 
NCDs and chart a successful course for the future. 
The President (spoke in Arabic): I now give the 

floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Joseph  Yieleh  Chireh, 
Minister for Public Health of Ghana. 
Mr.  Chireh  (Ghana):  It  is  my  pleasure  to  join 

previous  speakers  in  congratulating  you,  Sir,  on  your 
election  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-sixth  regular  session.  We  trust  that  with  your 
wealth  of  experience  you  will  be  able  to  steer  the 
11-50349 

15 

The 
itself  with 
the  statement  made  by 
A/66/PV.4 

deliberations  of  this  session  to  a  fruitful  conclusion. 
We  would  also  like  to  assure  you  of  our  cooperation 
and  support  towards  a  successful  outcome  for  this 
High-level Meeting. 
The delegation of Ghana takes this opportunity to 

associate 
the 
Argentine  Republic  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and 
China. 

increasing  burden  of  non-communicable 
diseases (NCDs) poses a serious threat to global public 
health  and  security.  Although  diseases  such  as 
HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  tuberculosis  are  a  major 
burden for developing countries, the death rates for the 
NCDs are higher. NCDs are estimated to be responsible 
for half of all deaths.  

The  epidemiological  transition  in  Ghana  has 
brought  about  a  double  burden  of  disease  — 
communicable  and  non-communicable.  At  present 
infant  and  adult  mortality  from  infectious  diseases  is 
steadily  decreasing,  and  death  rates  are  falling.  Life 
expectancy  in  Ghana  is  steadily  increasing,  and  the 
population  is  ageing  concurrently.  As  the  number  of 
adults  relative  to  children  rises,  the  most  common 
health  problems  are  becoming 
those  of  adults, 
producing a surge in NCDs. Recent changes in diet and 
the  social  environment  and  the  adoption  of  unhealthy 
lifestyles have resulted in the high burden of NCDs. 
sickle-cell  disease,  which 

is 
Apart 
genetically 
the  other  major  NCDs  — 
cardiovascular  diseases,  diabetes,  cancers  and  chronic 
respiratory  tract  infections  —  share  common  and 
modifiable  risk  factors,  namely  tobacco  use,  harmful 
use of alcohol, unhealthy diets and physical inactivity. 
This clearly underscores the fact that there is a lot that 
we  can  do  to  reduce  the  incidence  and  devastating 
effects  of  non-communicable  diseases.  By  promoting 
healthy lifestyles, we should be able to bring down the 
disease burden due to NCDs. 
To address the menace in Ghana, so far we have 

put in place the following measures. A national policy 
on NCDs has been developed. A public health bill with 
tobacco control as an integral part has been put before 
our  Parliament.  We  have  finalized  a  national  strategy 
for  cancer  control  in  Ghana.  We  have  developed  a 
national  sickle-cell  strategic  plan,  and  implementation 
has  started  with  the  scaling  up  of  newborn  screening 
and care of affected children. In the past four years we 
have  been  implementing  a  regenerative  health  and 
from 
linked, 
public 
policies. 
In  Austria, 
nutrition  strategic  plan  with  the  promotion  of  healthy 
lifestyle activities throughout all 10 regions of Ghana. 
Finally, mass sports to encourage physical activity are 
being promoted. 

The  Government  of  Ghana  is  committed  to  the 
fight  against  NCDs  and  will  continue  to  provide  the 
needed  political  leadership  and  resources  for  the 
prevention  and  control  of  NCDs.  Ghana  urges  the 
World  Health  Organization  to  continue  to  provide  the 
much-needed  technical  assistance  and  direction  to 
developing countries as we engage in this battle against 
NCDs.  The  Commonwealth  Secretariat  deserves 
commendation  for  the  crucial  role  it  has  played  and 
continues to play in the fight against NCDs. 
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Heinz  Fischer,  Federal 
President of the Republic of Austria. 
President  Fischer:  As  we  all  know,  successful 

efforts  to  tackle  non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs) 
need  to  involve  a  range  of  government  sectors  and 
cross-cutting 
10 
comprehensive  and  measurable  health  objectives  for 
the  coming  20 years  are  currently  the  subject  of  a 
structured political dialogue under the leadership of the 
Federal Minister for Health. A wide range of societal as 
well  as  government  sectors  are  involved,  in  line  with 
existing international health goals. Among the member 
States  of  the  European  Union,  Austria  happily  ranks 
second  in  terms  of  health  care  expenditures  on  a  per 
capita basis and the number of hospital beds. 
The  burden  of  NCDs  in  the  European  region  is 

rising  as  a  consequence  of  unhealthy  lifestyles  and 
unfavourable  socio-economic  conditions.  Austria  is 
confronted  with  problems  —  similar  to  developments 
in  the  European  region  —  of  obesity,  lack  of  sports, 
smoking  and  alcohol  consumption,  especially  among 
the young population. 

Responding to these challenges, our Government 
launched  the  National  Nutrition  Action  Plan,  which 
follows  a  horizontal  “health  in  all  policies”  strategy 
with  measures  regarding  nurseries,  kindergartens  and 
schools. It contains, for example, guidelines for school 
catering.  The  Federal  Minister 
in 
cooperation  with  the  Ministry  of  Health  and  other 
relevant  stakeholders,  is  developing  a  national  action 
plan 
for  physical  activity.  Based  on  up-to-date 
scientific  information,  the  recommendations  establish 
how  much  physical  activity  is  necessary  in  order  to 
for  Sports, 
16 

11-50349 
The  Austrian  health  policy  emphasizes 


positively affect health according to age groups. These 
recommendations are the first to provide suggestions in 
terms of intensity. 

its 
prevention strategies, tackling the increasing number of 
persons  with  diabetes  by  adopting  a  federal  quality 
guideline on diabetes mellitus type 2. The goal of this 
disease-management  programme  is  to  prevent  patients 
from  suffering  complications  associated  with  diabetes 
through prevention, early detection, diagnosis, quality-
based  care  and  therapy.  Furthermore,  we  focus  on  the 
role  of  psychosocial  factors  and  influences  on  mental 
health.  Following  recommendations  by  the  World 
Health  Organization  and  the  European  Union, Austria 
has started the formulation of a national cancer plan. 

What  we  need  is  strong  political  leadership  to 
give  sufficient  impetus  to  the  fight  against  NCDs. 
Governments need to include future-oriented decisions 
in  their  policies  across  a  wide  range  of  different 
government  departments,  not  just  the  ministries  of 
health.  People  need  to  change  their  lifestyles  and 
behaviours. The prevention and control of NCDs have 
to be part of our daily life. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Urmas  Paet,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of Estonia. 
Mr. Paet (Estonia): I thank the Secretary-General 

for  convening  this  first  High-level  Meeting  on  the 
Prevention 
and  Control  of  Non-communicable 
Diseases (NCDs). It is timely that this highly important 
and  growing  issue  of  non-communicable  diseases  is 
discussed  at  a  high 
level  at  United  Nations 
Headquarters.  At  the  same  time,  I  would  like  to 
reaffirm 
the  World  Health 
Organization (WHO) as the primary specialized agency 
for health, in coordinating and promoting global action 
against non-communicable diseases.  
Estonia  welcomes  the  adoption  of  the  Political 

this 
Declaration 
morning, 
to 
strengthening  their  national  health  policies  and  to 
reducing  risk  factors  associated  with  tobacco  use, 
unhealthy  diet,  lack  of  physical  activity  and  harmful 
use of alcohol. These are commitments that developing 
and developed countries can share alike. 

In  many  countries,  non-communicable  diseases 
pose a huge but avoidable burden on human capital and 
(resolution  66/2,  annex)  earlier 
commit 
in  which  Governments 
role  of 
leading 
the 
A/66/PV.4
diseases 
impacts 
on 
socio-economic 
Non-communicable 
the economy. The global population will reach 7 billion 
people,  but  the  demographic  situation  in  the  world  is 
changing in two opposing directions.  

On  my  continent,  Europe,  societies  are  ageing, 
but  the  years  lived  in  good  health  can  be  further 
extended. Evidence shows that this result is effectively 
achievable  through  systematically  applied  preventive 
activities. 
cause 
significant disability and early loss of work capacity as 
well as premature death. 
On the other hand, the number of young people in 

the world has never been higher, and most of them live 
in  the  developing  world.  It  is  important  that  we 
promote  sexual  and  reproductive  health  and  rights, 
since the key to informed decisions is their access to a 
comprehensive  health  service  package,  together  with 
sexuality education. 
Non-communicable  diseases  have  particularly 

developing 
strong 
countries.  They  are  also  greatly  affecting 
the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
which,  as  we  know,  are  falling  short  of  the  targets  in 
many countries. Estonia has increasingly supported the 
development of health systems in developing countries, 
such as Afghanistan. We continue to support the efforts 
of  different  United  Nations  organizations,  such  as 
UNICEF  and  the  United  Nations  Population  Fund,  in 
their  actions 
to  health  care, 
particularly  for  girls  and  women,  throughout  the 
developing world. 
We know that the work to address NCDs must be 

comprehensive and consistent, and that it takes time to 
see 
that 
encompasses  health  promotion,  disease  prevention, 
health  care  and  actions  directed  towards  influencing 
activities of other sectors is needed. Such an approach 
is well described in the WHO European Region charter 
entitled  “Health  Systems  for  Health  and Wealth”,  also 
known  as  the  Tallinn  Charter.  Tackling  NCDs  means 
comprehensive  investments  in  health  systems  —  in 
health  promotion,  disease  prevention  and  health  care. 
All  sectors  must  be  aware  of  the  impact  their  actions 
may  have  on  health  and  have  health  enhancement  in 
mind. 

In  line  with  the  Tallinn  Charter,  Estonia  has  a 
comprehensive  five-point  multisectoral  approach  for 
tackling NCDs. It covers social determinants of health, 
child  and  youth  health,  key  risk  factors,  a  healthy 
improve  access 
results.  A 
systematic 
approach 
to 
first 
11-50349 

17 

to 
for 
response 
The  global 
A/66/PV.4 

environment  and  health-care  services,  which  play  a 
crucial  role  in  producing  sustainable  gains  in  health. 
The  national  health  plan  provides  an  umbrella 
framework 
specific  disease-oriented  health 
strategies. 
reduce  premature 

morbidity  and  mortality 
from  non-communicable 
diseases  should  be  effective,  comprehensive  and 
integrated  into  the  global  health  agenda  as  well  as  in 
national health systems. 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  His 

Excellency Mr. Juma Duni Haji, Minister for Health of 
the United Republic of Tanzania. 
Mr.  Haji  (United  Republic  of  Tanzania):  I  have 

the  honour  and  pleasure  to  deliver  the  following  brief 
remarks  on  behalf  of  the  President  of  the  United 
Republic  of  Tanzania,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jakaya 
Mrisho Kikwete, who will not be here today because of 
other pressing engagements.  

As a contribution to this important discussion on 
the  prevention  and  control  of  non-communicable 
diseases  (NCDs),  Tanzania,  in  partnership  with  the 
Governments  of  Australia  and  Sweden,  is  hosting  a 
side event this evening on oral health. 

My  delegation  welcomes  the  convening  of  this 
High-level Meeting of the General Assembly to discuss 
the  prevention  and  control  of  non-communicable 
diseases, which have become a major challenge to our 
health system. 
Risk-factor  figures  for  NCDs  in  my  country  are 

very high. The prevalence of tobacco smoking is 10 per 
cent  and  that  of  overweight  people  is  21.8  per  cent. 
The  rate  of  persons  with  elevated  total  cholesterol 
levels is 21.6 per cent, the rate of people with elevated 
blood  glucose  levels  is  8.5  per  cent,  and  per  capita 
consumption of pure alcohol is 7.8 litres. 

The  burden  of  disease  is  equally  alarming.  The 
prevalence of diabetes is 5.3 per cent, of hypertension 
30  per  cent  and  of  chronic  obstructive  pulmonary 
disease  12.6  per  cent.  The  incidence  of  cancers  is 
21.2 per  100,000  people.  Cervical  cancer  is  the  most 
common type. In addition to these four major groups of 
disease, in Tanzania 8,000 to 10,000 children are born 
every  year  with  sickle-cell  anaemia.  Oral  health, 
mental  health,  violence  and  injuries  are  also  major 
challenges for us. As a result, the NCD mortality rate is 
Tanzania 
75.7  per  100,000  for  men  and  58.6  per  100,000  for 
women. 

The  cost  of  health  care  for  NCDs  is  very  high. 
The  household  cost  for  diabetes  treatment  is  25  per 
cent  of  the  minimum  wage.  Between  73  and  92  per 
cent  of  people  with  heart  disease  spend  more  than 
40 per  cent  of  their  non-food  income  on  care  and 
treatment. NCDs therefore impoverish families.  

Poor  communities  are  vulnerable  to  NCDs,  as 
they  go  for  cheap  but  nutritionally  harmful  foods  and 
are exposed to unhealthy lifestyles, while the sedentary 
lifestyles of white collar workers put that group at risk. 
Therefore,  NCDs  have  to  be  on  the  development 
agenda. 
Tanzania has an NCD strategy that was launched 

in  2009  aimed  at  the  prevention  and  control  of  NCDs 
so  as  to  reduce  the  burden  they  present  and  ensure 
access  to  affordable  NCD  services.  We  now  have  an 
NCD  unit  at  the  Ministry  of  Health  with  an  NCD 
national  steering  committee  comprised  of  various 
stakeholders to provide oversight.  

of 
communicable and non-communicable diseases. As we 
focus  on  NCDs,  we  must  not  jeopardize  the  attention 
we  are  giving  to  the  prevention  and  control  of 
communicable diseases. 

thank  you, 
Mr. President,  for  giving  Tanzania  the  opportunity  to 
make  its  case  here  and  hope  we  can  achieve  success 
regarding NCDs as we all did for HIV/AIDS. 

Excellency  Ms.  Heidi  Hautala,  Minister 
International Development of Finland. 

myself with the statement of the European Union. 

(NCDs)  are  a 
growing  problem  in  the  developing  world  and  a  huge 
challenge 
internationally  agreed 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  Developed  countries, 
unfortunately,  do  not  provide  a  very  good  example 
here, as their lifestyles are closely linked with many of 
these diseases. 

At  the  same  time,  developed  countries  have 
accumulated  a  lot  of  experience  on  how  to  tackle 
non-communicable  diseases.  In  Finland,  for  instance, 
pioneering  work  has  been  done  in  the  area  of  the 
The  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to  Her 
for 
Ms.  Hautala  (Finland):  First  of  all,  let  me  align 
Non-communicable  diseases 
In  conclusion,  I  would 
to  achieving 
like 
to 
burden 
faces 
the 
double 
the 
18 

11-50349 
in 
the 
and 
also 
industry 
Business 


prevention  of  heart  and  coronary  diseases  —  the 
so-called  North  Carelia  Project  and  the  name  of 
Mr. Pekka Puska, an outstanding expert, are familiar to 
many 
international  context.  The  Finnish 
emphasis  is  on  health  promotion  and  primary  health 
care. These are by far the best means in the developing 
world,  too,  to  fight  non-communicable  diseases.  The 
importance  of  health  system  strengthening  cannot  be 
overemphasized. 

Health  is  affected  by  several  factors,  many 
outside  the  remit  of  the  health  sector  itself.  Healthy 
eating,  for  instance,  is  linked  to  agricultural  policy, 
global  rules  for  agricultural  trade,  other  trade,  urban 
planning, tax policy and educational systems. Since the 
1940s,  school  meals  have  been  a  very  important 
innovation to promote healthy eating in Finland.  

their 
have 
responsibility. They can promote healthy lifestyles, but 
unfortunately  they  can  also  work  against  them  to 
advance  narrow,  short-term  economic  interests.  This 
must  come  to  an  end. Tobacco  is  perhaps  the  clearest 
example  of  a  commercial  product  that  is  harmful  to 
public  health.  It  kills  6  million  people  each  year, 
dramatically reduces the quality of life of millions, and 
is a massive burden on national health budgets. Finland 
has set itself the goal of being completely tobacco-free 
by 2040. We believe that this is a realistic goal.  

Gender  issues  are  central  when  talking  about 
health promotion and sustainable development. Women 
often  suffer  most  from  the  effects  of  poverty  and 
illness,  but  even  more  importantly,  they  are  powerful 
agents  of  change.  Their  behaviour  and  choices  can 
make  a  big  difference  in  efforts  to  tackle  NCDs  and 
other  diseases.  Maternal  health  and  sexual  and 
reproductive health and rights are also relevant in this 
context.  Women’s  access  to  primary  health  care  and 
their  right  to  choose  serve  them,  their  families  and 
society as a whole. 

Poverty  eradication  and  sustainable  development 
are  directly  linked  to  health.  People  who  live  without 
access  to  the  basic  necessities  of  life,  without  good 
quality  education,  or  in  the  margins  of  society  do  not 
have  the  means  to  make  healthy  choices.  Basic 
education  and  health  education  have  a  crucial  role 
here; they are also very cost-effective ways to promote 
health. 
As  with  any  aspect  of  sustainable  development, 

primary  responsibility  lies  within  each  country  and 
A/66/PV.4
with  the  commitment  and  accountability  of  each 
Government to its people. Development assistance can 
only have a catalytic role. Domestic resources must be 
mobilized.  Some  health  promotion  activities  —  for 
instance taxing tobacco, alcohol, or unhealthy food and 
beverages  —  are  in  fact  very  cost-effective.  At  the 
same  time,  of  course,  international  cooperation  is 
needed.  

The  role  of  civil  society  in  health  promotion  is 
crucial.  One  example  of  that  is  that  our  delegation 
includes  representatives  of  three  non-governmental 
organizations  —  one  working  on  heart  disease,  one 
working  on  cancer,  and  one  working  on  diabetes.  A 
very good example of their work is the so-called Better 
Choice  symbol,  developed  by 
the  Finnish  Heart 
Association to help consumers make healthier choices. 
Mr.  Zinsou  (Benin),  Vice-President,  took  the 

Chair. 
In addition to being a value in itself, health is an 

important  factor 
in  promoting  positive  economic 
development.  A  healthy  population  is  a  productive 
population.  NCDs  have  a  major  social  and  economic 
impact.  They  slow  down  economic  development.  Let 
me  also  mention  that  there  are  also  many  synergies 
between health and a green economy, such as cycling.  

such 
communicable diseases as AIDS, as was pointed out by 
the Tanzanian  Minister  a  moment  ago.  HIV/AIDS  has 
become  a  chronic  disease,  and 
to 
non-communicable  diseases  in  many  cases.  Many 
developing countries are in fact faced with the double 
burden  of  communicable  and  non-communicable 
diseases.  That  is  why,  for  Finland,  the  Joint  United 
Nations  Programme  on  HIV/AIDS  and  the  United 
Nations Population Fund, for instance, are key partners 
in  promoting  the  HIV/AIDS  and  the  closely  linked 
sexual and reproductive health rights agendas. 

We  want  to  see  the  World  Health  Organization 
(WHO)  continue  to  be  the  lead  actor  in  global  health 
promotion.  It  gives  strategic  guidance  to  Member 
States  and  coordinates  their  international  response. 
WHO  has  been  the  forerunner  in  the  fight  against 
tobacco.  The  Framework  Convention  on  Tobacco 
Control  is  an  unprecedented  piece  of  international 
legislation,  extending  into  many  areas  outside  health, 
such as trade, customs and taxation. It should serve as 
an  example  for  addressing  other  harmful  products  as 
well. 
We  must 
continue 
linked 
tackle 
also 
to 
is 
11-50349 

19 

it 
through 
diseases 
important 
therefore  believe 
non-communicable 
A/66/PV.4 


The United Nations as a whole has a central role 
to  play  in  promoting  sustainable  development  and  the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals, 
very much including in the area of health. It is crucial 
to  continue  pushing  forward  with  United  Nations 
reforms in order to make sure that the United Nations 
system  can  respond  in  the  best  possible  way  to  the 
challenges it is faced with. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give the floor to Her Excellency Ms. Yasmina Baddou, 
Minister of Health of the Kingdom of Morocco. 
Ms. Baddou (Morocco) (spoke in Arabic): Great 

effort  is  required  in  the  current  circumstances  to 
combat 
a 
multisectoral  strategy,  a  precautionary  approach,  the 
promotion of healthy lifestyles, early screening and the 
creation of appropriate regulatory taxation frameworks. 
We 
to  mobilize 
international  mutual  cooperation,  and  in  particular 
support  for  developing  countries  in  improving  their 
health  sectors,  building  their  capacities,  benefiting 
from successful experiences in the field of prevention, 
and containing non-communicable diseases. 

Committed  to  international  partnership  in  the 
fight against such diseases, Morocco has endorsed the 
guidelines of the World Health Organization as defined 
in  its  2008-2013  Action  Plan  for  the  Global  Strategy 
for  the  Prevention  and  Control  of  Non-communicable 
Diseases.  Morocco  has  proceeded  to  implement  its 
national  integrated  initiative  for  the  prevention  and 
monitoring  of  non-communicable  diseases,  with  the 
involvement of local and municipal authorities, various 
ministries and non-governmental organizations.  

that  end,  Morocco  has  enacted  several 
multisectoral  policies  and  strategies,  including  its 
national initiative for human development, launched by 
His  Majesty  King  Mohammed  VI  in  May  2005  and 
aimed  at  combating  all  forms  of  poverty  and  social 
marginalization  and  at  meeting  the  people’s  basic 
needs in marginalized areas. Other initiatives include a 
national 
the  Green  Morocco 
project  to  guarantee  food  security,  a  national  charter 
for  the  environment  and  sustainable  development,  the 
Sport  for  All  strategy,  and  the  establishment  of  a 
national  centre  for  food  safety. All  of  these  initiatives 
seek to promote healthy lifestyles, counter risk factors, 
strengthen  the  capacities  of  the  health-care  system, 
promote  the  availability  of  affordable  medicines  and 
literacy  programme, 
To 
that  regard, 
resolution  on 
basic  medical  coverage,  mobilize  additional  resources 
through  the  taxation  of  tobacco  and  alcohol  products 
and  the  implementation  of  an  epidemiological  survey 
of these diseases and their risks, and promote research 
and development. 

The  Moroccan  experience  in  the  fight  against 
non-communicable  diseases  has  expanded  in  recent 
years  with  the  strengthening  of  partnerships  and 
increased  societal  awareness.  In 
the 
Ministry of Health, with the support of the Lalla Salma 
Association against Cancer, has developed its national 
plan  for  the  prevention  and  control  of  cancer  for  the 
period  2010-2019.  The  plan,  which  is  based  on  the 
World  Health  Assembly 
cancer 
prevention and control adopted in May 2005, sets out a 
strategic  agenda  for  the  next  decade  that  is  based  on 
the  efficient  and  rational  use  of  existing  resources  to 
better  respond  to  the  needs  of  patients.  The  plan  also 
serves  as  a  model  for  strategies 
to  fight  other 
non-communicable  diseases.  In  addition,  the  Lalla 
Salma Association has launched a national plan to fight 
tobacco  use 
in  schools,  commercial  entities  and 
hospitals.  

Morocco has also set up national programmes to 
prevent  and  control  diabetes  and  cardiovascular, 
coronary  and  respiratory  diseases,  so  as  to  reduce 
illness  and  mortality  and  improve  quality  of  life  for 
patients and their families. 

Against  the  backdrop  of  the  current  difficult 
global  economic  situation,  Morocco  believes  that  we 
must  coordinate  our  joint  efforts  to  formulate  a 
collective, 
to 
efficient 
combating non-communicable diseases. 

On this occasion, the Kingdom of Morocco would 
like  to  urge  that  consideration  be  given  to  the  idea  of 
establishing  a  voluntary,  sustainable  and  permanent 
to  combat  non-communicable  diseases  and 
fund 
facilitate 
the  Political 
Declaration  (resolution  66/2,  annex)  we  have  adopted 
at this meeting. The purpose of such a fund would be to 
assist developing countries burdened by high levels of 
non-communicable  diseases 
the 
Declaration,  including  the  commitments  therein  and 
other challenges.  

In that regard, the Kingdom of Morocco reiterates 
its  full  readiness  to  continue  to  support  the  tireless 
efforts  of  the  United  Nations.  We  are  prepared  to 
cooperate with all international partners in responding 
implementation  of 
implementing 
response 
coherent 
and 
the 
in 
20 

11-50349 
tackling 
the  challenge  of  preventing  and 


to 
non-communicable diseases. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  James  Reilly, 
Minister of Health of Ireland. 
Mr.  Reilly  (Ireland): There  is  an  old  saying  that 

your  health  is  your  wealth.  In  Ireland,  we  put  it  even 
more  strongly.  We  say  that  your  health  is  more 
important than your wealth. Health, to us, is better than 
wealth.  That  saying  goes  back  many  centuries;  it  is  a 
proverb  that  touches  on  a  global  truth.  Health  is  not 
just  an  individual  issue,  but  an  issue  that  affects  the 
productivity and economic well-being of nations. This 
is  only  the  second  high-level  United  Nations  meeting 
on health; and today’s Political Declaration (resolution 
66/2,  annex)  is  a  significant  step  to  mandate  action  at 
the highest level. 

Historically,  the  focus  has  been  on  infectious 
diseases.  It  is  only  relatively  recently  that  we  have 
come to appreciate the potential of non-communicable 
diseases  (NCDs)  to  extinguish  individual  well-being 
and  crush  developing  economies.  When  we  look  at 
increased  longevity  in  nations  such  as  Ireland,  it  is 
easy 
to  medical 
science —  easy,  but  wrong.  More  than  half  of  those 
extra  years  have  nothing  to  do  with  advances  in 
medicine. They are due to improved living conditions, 
clean water and better nutrition. 

While 50 per cent of the advances have been due 
to  medical  advances,  a  substantial  chunk  of  those  are 
due  to  vaccinations.  The  bottom  line  is  that  what  we 
describe  as  interventive  medicine  has  been  much  less 
important  than  is  sometimes  believed.  It  is  safe  to 
predict  that  the  next  great  advance  will  be  along 
similar lines — helping individuals make life-changing 
decisions  about prevention and management. We must 
make the right thing to do the easy thing to do, because 
it is in all of our interests, within families, communities 
and nations.  

That is why today is such a landmark step in the 
process  of  dealing  with  the  creeping  catastrophe  of 
non-communicable  diseases,  which  now  account  for 
nearly two of every three deaths per annum worldwide. 
Every  year  non-communicable  diseases  kill  9  million 
people  under  the  age  of  60.  It  is  a  major  emerging 
health  threat  with  enormous  destructive  potential  for 
all countries, and for Ireland. 
that  achievement 
to  attribute 
A/66/PV.4
the 
that 
Our  demographics  mean 
towards  greater  emphasis  on  prevention 

level  of 
non-communicable  diseases  such  as  cancer,  heart 
disease,  stroke,  respiratory  diseases,  diabetes  and 
mental health will certainly increase over the next few 
decades.  In addition, the Irish health-care system as  it 
stands  simply  will  be  unable  to  cope  with  what  is 
coming down the tracks. We are setting out to radically 
reform the Irish health system so as to guarantee equal 
access to high-quality health care for everybody in my 
country.  The  new  system  will  give  access  based  upon 
need, not upon ability to pay. 

While  the  first  step  in  this  journey  is  the 
provision  of  universal  primary  health  care,  a  major 
shift 
is 
imperative. We  all  have  a  moral,  social  and  economic 
duty  to  deal  with  this  creeping  catastrophe,  especially 
in  developing  countries,  where  we  see  the  most  rapid 
rise in deaths from non-communicable diseases. Those 
least  able  to  cope  with  the  health  demands  and 
consequences  of  this  pattern  are  suffering,  and  will 
suffer, the most. 

Prevention  is  crucial.  Approximately  two  thirds 
of  the  predicted  disease  burden  is  caused  by  risk 
factors that can, and must, be prevented. Prevention is 
always  better  than  cure.  But  it  is  cure  that  gets  the 
headlines  and  the  investment.  People  at  risk  must  be 
identified  early,  at  the  level  of  primary  health  care. 
They  also  need  to  be  treated  at  that  level  as  far  as  is 
possible. 

Our guiding principle is to treat the patient at the 
lowest level of complexity that is safe, timely, efficient 
and as close to home as possible. Now we are coming 
to a quite different understanding. We are coming to a 
new understanding that in any one country, it is not the 
department of health within a Government that carries 
the  sole  responsibility  for  improving  the  health  of  a 
nation.  The  departments  that  are  dealing  with  the 
environment,  transport,  education,  the  workplace  and 
with  children  all  have  a  huge  contribution  to  make. 
While  intra-governmental  cooperation  is  necessary, 
today’s meeting underscores the need for inter-Government 
cooperation, if we are to really tackle NCDs.  

Ireland,  for  example,  was  a  world  leader  in 
banning  smoking  in  the  workplace.  That  happened 
despite what  seemed to be insurmountable opposition. 
Our  workplaces,  including  theatres  and  public  houses, 
changed.  In  due  course,  some  of  our  non-communicable 
11-50349 

21 

A/66/PV.4 

disease  statistics  will  change  as  a  result —  not  as  a 
result of medical change, but of an environmental one. 

Now  we  need  to  draw  on  the  lessons  of  this 
success  when  we  tackle  alcohol  misuse,  poor  diet  and 
lack of physical exercise. At the end of this process, we 
must  have  a  public  health  policy  that  supports  and 
fortifies  our  capacity  for  early  disease  detection,  risk 
assessment,  mitigation  and  control.  We  have  a  lot  of 
difficult  choices  to  make,  particularly  when  taking  on 
the  various  interests  that  stand  in  our  way.  But  the 
health  of  our  people  comes  first  —  way  before 
business  interests.  The  threat  of  non-communicable 
diseases  has  the  power  to  smother  our  social  and 
economic life. The Political Declaration is a significant 
step in dealing with that threat. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Liow Tiong  Lai, 
Minister of Health of Malaysia. 
Mr. Liow (Malaysia): In our pursuit of economic 

development,  we  should  not  lose  sight  of  our  nations’ 
health.  Despite  strong  evidence  of  an  ever-increasing 
burden  of  non-communicable  diseases 
(NCDs) 
worldwide, our response has not been proportionate. 

the 
leadership of the World Health Organization (WHO) in 
pushing  the  NCD  agenda  forward.  Our  meeting  today 
marks  an  important  milestone  in  our  global  efforts  to 
strengthen  NCD  prevention  and  control.  In  December 
2010,  Malaysia  began 
implementing  a  national 
strategic plan for non-communicable diseases. In order 
to support the whole-of-Government approach laid out 
in the strategic plan, a Cabinet committee was formed 
to promote a healthy environment, with representatives 
from  10  ministries  and  chaired  by  the  Deputy  Prime 
Minister.  Malaysia  sees  this  committee  as  a  very 
important  vehicle  for  furthering 
the  policy  and 
regulatory agenda, since responsibility for that agenda 
belongs chiefly to ministries other than the Ministry of 
Health. The outcome of the committee’s first meeting, 
held on 4 April, was a commitment from the Ministry 
of Education to improve screening and intervention for 
obesity in schools. 
The  commitments  on  the  prevention  and  control 

of  NCDs  to  be  made  by  the  Heads  of  State  tomorrow 
will  be  a  strong  advocacy  tool  that  will  be  used  in 
Malaysia 
the  support  of  all  related 
ministries and agencies in promoting the NCD agenda. 
Learning from the lessons of HIV/AIDS on the strong 
is  extremely  encouraged  by 
to  marshal 
Malaysia 
World 
the 
leaders  must  act 
and  positive  role  to  be  played  by  non-governmental 
organizations  (NGOs),  we  will  use  the  Malaysian 
Health  Promotion  Board 
to  further  develop  and 
increase  the  capacity  of  related  NGOs  to  play  a  more 
proactive  role,  particularly  in  community-based  NCD 
risk-factor  intervention.  The  lessons  we  have  learned 
from  global  and  national  infectious  disease  outbreaks 
include the importance of having a preparedness plan, 
the  need  for  cooperation  and 
information-sharing 
between  countries  and  global  agencies,  and  taking 
advantage of institutional memory to adapt and modify 
methods that have been used successfully. 

immediately  and 
responsibly  to  deliver  key  changes  in  the  Political 
Declaration  (resolution  66/2,  annex)  adopted  at  this 
meeting.  To  that  end,  I  agree  wholeheartedly  with 
Ms. Margaret Chan of WHO, who once said that which 
gets  measured  gets  done.  It  is  important  to  set  clear, 
measurable  and  time-bound  targets,  and  we  propose 
that  the  indicators  presented  by  WHO  at  its  Global 
Forum and the First Global Ministerial Conference on 
Healthy  Lifestyles  and  Non-communicable  Disease 
Control in Moscow in April 2011 be incorporated into 
the Declaration. 

The  United  Nations  Political  Declaration  on 
HIV/AIDS  (65/277)  adopted  in  June  also  endorsed 
taking 
flexibility 
guaranteed  by  the World Trade  Organization’s  (WTO) 
Agreement  on  Trade-Related  Aspects  of  Intellectual 
Property  Rights  (TRIPS)  in  order  to  ensure  that  trade 
does  not  violate  patients’  rights.  While  the  promotion 
of  international  trade  is  important,  especially  within  a 
rules-based 
trading  system,  WTO  should  provide 
flexibility,  and  to  developing  countries  in  particular. 
Malaysia does not want to see the introduction of new 
generic  drugs  obstructed  and  delayed  because  of 
various  parties’  conflicting  interpretations  of  national 
TRIPS legislation and regulations. 

With  the  growing  numbers  of  people  suffering 
from  NCDs,  many  countries  are  faced  with  a  huge 
challenge  in  the  form  of  providing  adequate  access  to 
the  medicines  essential  to  the  management  of  these 
diseases.  In  Malaysia,  where  comprehensive  health 
care is provided to the people, the use of generic drugs 
optimizes financial resources and ensures that all cases 
detected  are 
to 
strengthen the components of its health-care system by 
raising  awareness  and  encouraging  people  to  come 
forward  for  screening.  Individuals  identified  as  being 
treated.  Malaysia  will  continue 
advantage  of 
important 
22 

11-50349 
later  on,  when 
treating  diseases 
this  global  stage 
from  NCDs  have 
Malaysia is committed at home and will show its 
in  forging  a 


at  risk  will  receive  early  intervention  to  prevent 
diseases  and  their  complications.  Although  screening 
will increase health spending, it is more cost-effective 
than 
they  have 
developed  with  complications.  This  conclusion  is 
supported  by  the  WHO  projection  that  a  10  per  cent 
increase  in  NCDs  results  in  an  annual  drop  in 
economic growth of 0.5 per cent. 

commitment  on 
framework from our collective agreements on NCDs. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Simon  Power, 
Minister for Justice of New Zealand. 
Mr.  Power  (New  Zealand):  Non-communicable 

diseases  (NCDs)  represent  a  major  threat  to  the 
economy  and  health  of  populations  in  all  countries. 
Death  and  disability 
reached 
epidemic  proportions.  They  push  poor  people  further 
into  poverty.  They  impede  the  achievement  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  The  World 
Economic Forum ranks NCDs as one of the top global 
threats to economic development, which is impeded by 
the  imposition  of  an  unmanageable  burden  on  health 
systems.  

New Zealand is confronting the magnitude of the 
problem  not  only  for  our  own  people,  but  also  among 
our  Pacific  island  country  neighbours.  More  than 
40 per  cent  of  the  adult  population  in  some  Pacific 
countries  has  diabetes.  This  is  projected  to  double  by 
2030.  NCDs  are  having  a  massive  impact  on  those 
countries’ 
economic 
development. 

fortieth 
anniversary  meeting  of  the  Pacific  Islands  Forum,  at 
which  leaders  expressed  concern  about  the  potentially 
devastating economic consequences of NCDs and their 
impact  on  MDG  achievement  when  the  region  is 
already  struggling  to  meet  the  2015  targets.  Rapidly 
rising expenditure on NCDs is now reaching well over 
50  per  cent  of  the  total  health  budget  of  many  island 
countries.  If  unabated,  NCDs  have  the  potential  to 
undermine  four  of  the  main  factors  driving  economic 
growth:  labour  supply,  productivity,  investment  and 
education.  

address 
Leaders  called  for  quick  and  decisive  action  to 
from 
recently  hosted 
New  Zealand 
unfolding 
potential 
rapidly 
for 
social 
and 
the 
A/66/PV.4
the 
and 
and 
approach 
environment 
therefore  welcomes 
Governments, the private sector, civil society, regional 
international  organizations  and  development 
and 
partners.  New  Zealand 
the 
opportunity  to  focus  attention  on  this  regional  and 
global crisis and to consider what can be done. 

New Zealand supports the life-course approach to 
NCDs. This begins at conception. Prenatal malnutrition 
and low birth weight create a predisposition to obesity, 
heart disease and diabetes later in life. Improving care, 
especially  primary  health  care,  before  and  during 
pregnancy  can  reduce  risk  during  a  child’s  early  and 
later life. Actively addressing the common risk factors 
at  any  stage  of  life  can  also  reduce  the  risk  of  NCD-
related illness and death. 

NCDs are not just a health issue. They require a 
whole-of-Government 
innovative 
strategies  across  such  sectors  as  health,  education, 
agriculture, 
economic 
development. In New Zealand, the combined efforts of 
academia,  civil  society  and  Government  have,  for 
example,  supported  multisectoral  efforts  to  reduce 
harm  from  tobacco  use.  Our  aim  is  to  have  an 
essentially  smoke-free  country  by  2025.  Substantially 
reducing tobacco consumption will significantly reduce 
NCDs,  with 
for 
individuals and countries. We urge countries that have 
not  yet  done  so  to  become  party  to  the  World  Health 
Organization  Framework  Convention  on  Tobacco 
Control. 

New  Zealand  remains  a  consistent  supporter  of 
Pacific countries in their efforts to address NCDs, and 
a  contributor  to  international  research  on  NCDs.  We 
know  that  the  knowledge  and  expertise  to  prevent 
deaths  and  disabilities  from  NCDs  exists.  With  this 
meeting,  we  now  have  the  political  commitment  to 
those solutions. New Zealand stands ready to maintain 
the momentum generated by this meeting. Averting the 
NCD  crisis  is  essential  to  ensuring  that  present  and 
future generations have the chance to live long, healthy 
and productive lives. 

give 
AlBeloushi, Minister for Health of Bahrain. 
Ms. AlBeloushi (Bahrain) (spoke in Arabic ): It is 

the pleasure and honour of the Kingdom of Bahrain to 
in 
participate 
the 
Prevention 
and  Control  of  Non-communicable 
Diseases (NCDs). 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
the 
to  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Fatima 
considerable  health  benefits 
this  High-level  Meeting  on 
floor 
this 
crisis 
11-50349 

23 

A/66/PV.4 


Over  the  decades,  Bahrain  has  succeeded  in 
eradicating  many  non-communicable  diseases.  It  is 
thanks to prevention policies that we have been able to 
eliminate  almost  all  childhood  diseases 
through 
vaccination  programmes  that  provide  100  per  cent 
coverage  against  measles,  mumps  and  rubella.  The 
vaccination rate for polio and other childhood diseases 
has  reached  96.4  per  cent.  We  have  succeeded  in 
implementing  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  on 
health.  Child  mortality  was  reduced 
to  7.2  per 
100 births  in  2009,  and  in  the  same  year  we  had  only 
six maternal deaths.  

Like other countries, Bahrain monitors changes in 
NCDs. In 2010, 16 per cent of NCD deaths were due to 
cardiovascular  diseases  and  13  per  cent  to  tumors. 
Increased national screening for 19- to 65-year-olds in 
2007  has  shown  that  14.3  per  cent  of  the  population 
has  diabetes.  Those  who  suffer  from  high  blood 
pressure  account  for  38.2  per  cent  of  the  population 
and  from  high  cholesterol,  40.6  per  cent.  The 
overweight are 32.9 per cent of the population. Studies 
have  shown  that  the  percentage  of  smokers  among 
those people in Bahrain is just over 19.9 per cent.  
We  are  currently  working  on  a  new  national 

screening  programme  for  2012  with  a  view 
to 
addressing the current situation with respect to NCDs. 
We  have  adopted  the  international  prevention  and 
control  strategy  and  included  it  in  our  Government’s 
list of priorities. We have established a plan of strategic 
objectives  through  2030,  which  aims  to  preserve  the 
nation’s  health  by  strengthening  preventive  measures 
and care.  

We have three major initiatives under way. They 
are intended, first, to strengthen the health-care system 
via  prevention,  early  screening  and  national  policies 
for  the  fight  against  NCDs  and  chronic  diseases,  and 
also the promotion of healthier lifestyles. We have set 
up  a  council  for  strengthening  health  care,  with  the 
participation  of  municipalities  and  provinces.  Our 
Council  of  Ministers  has  set  up  a  national  committee 
on  the  prevention  of  NCDs,  with  all  concerned 
stakeholders participating.  

With  regard  to  risk  factors,  we  have  adopted 
empowerment  policies  with  a  view 
to  stopping 
consumption of tobacco products. This is being carried 
out in conjunction with the World Health Organization 
Framework  Convention  on  Tobacco  Control.  We  have 
also  taken  measures  to  prohibit  the  advertising  of 
regional  partnership 
tobacco  in  all  media  and  have  banned  smoking  in  all 
closed  places.  We  have  also  adopted  a  nationwide 
strategy  on  diet  and  physical  exercise.  We  are 
establishing  partnership  initiatives  across  the  country 
with municipalities and provinces and civil societies to 
fight NCDs.  

We  have  also  looked  at  and  identified  the  needs 
of society in the area of the prevention and control of 
NCDs.  We  have  set  up  23  clinics  and  primary  care 
services  and  early-screening  centres  across 
the 
Kingdom  specializing  in  NCDs  and  chronic  diseases. 
This is in addition to opening clinics for healthy people 
and their early screening. 

initiatives,  we  are 
working  with  the  regional  office  for  the  Middle  East 
with  a  view  to  implementing  a  regional  strategy  on 
NCD prevention. We started working with our partners 
in  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council  last  January  with  a 
view to developing a joint Gulf plan on the prevention 
of NCDs. All this is set out in the Manama Document 
adopted  in  2011.  It  has  seven  strategic  objectives  and 
benchmarks, and the Gulf countries are implementing a 
mechanism  for  annual  review  and  follow-up  of  those 
objectives. 

scourge  of  non-communicable 
diseases  is  one  of  the  main  threats  to  development  in 
the  twenty-first  century.  NCDs  have  a  harmful  impact 
on  the  economies  of  many  countries  and  hinder  the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals. 
They do not affect only individuals and societies; they 
affect  health-care  systems  more  generally.  Therefore, 
we would like to reiterate the importance of the content 
of the document adopted, as well as the importance of 
national  Governments  and  their  efforts  to  address 
NCDs  and 
including  relevant 
governmental  and  non-governmental  stakeholders  and 
sectors  in  the  fight  against  NCDs.  There  is  also  an 
important regional and international role in the sharing 
of  successful  experience,  enabling  legislation  and 
building  capacity  so  as  to  arm  ourselves  with  the 
requisite mechanisms for addressing NCDs. 

in  our  fight  against 
non-communicable  diseases,  we  need  an  evaluation 
and  monitoring  mechanism.  Therefore  we  need  to 
adopt  an  international  framework  for  follow-up  and 
evaluation  based  on  an  implementable  set  of  regional, 
national and international benchmarks. 
importance  of 
If  we  are 
to  succeed 
In 
The  global 
the 
24 

11-50349 
in 
and 
the 
increasing 
to  reiterate 
Finally,  Bahrain  wishes 
the  United  Nations  on 



its  full 
support  for  the  document  adopted  by  the  High-level 
Meeting  (resolution  66/2,  annex).  Please  be  assured 
that  we  will  work  assiduously  in  all  areas  to  fight 
against non-communicable diseases. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Talalelei Tuitama, 
Minister for Health of Samoa. 
Mr.  Tuitama  (Samoa):  I  bring  greetings  to  this 

Assembly from the Government and people of Samoa. 
Samoa  congratulates 
the 
inclusion of non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in the 
agenda of its 2011 General Assembly. The evidence of 
the  devastation  caused  by  NCDs  to  human  health 
worldwide  is  well  documented. This  can  no  longer  be 
ignored  as  NCDs  have  a  negative 
impact  on 
development at all levels. 
Small  island  countries  like  Samoa  make  up  the 

the  South  Pacific.  The  Blue 
Blue  Continent 
Continent  rises  up  from  the  vast  blue  ocean  that 
surrounds  us,  which  over  the  years  has  provided 
unlimited fishery resources that are beneficial to many 
countries  of  the  world.  Yet  the  small  Pacific  island 
limited 
countries 
opportunities 
and 
vulnerability  of  resources  due  to  global  economic 
crises  and  environmental  degradation,  which  disrupt 
proactive  efforts  to  promote  and  sustain  good  health, 
not to mention the huge efforts being made to manage 
and control NCDs. 
Non-communicable diseases have reached a crisis 

level,  heralding  a  major  health  and  development 
emergency  in  our  part  of  the  world.  For  Samoa,  it  is 
our topmost health priority as it affects our population, 
including those in younger age groups, at an alarming 
rate.  Twenty-three  per  cent  of  Samoan  adults  aged 
25 years  and  older  are  diabetic,  21  per  cent  are 
hypertensive, and the percentage of the population that 
is obese, with its attendant health risks, stands at more 
than 50 per cent. The direct link between NCDs and the 
leading causes of morbidity and mortality in Samoa are 
therefore clear and undisputed. 
Over the past two decades, Samoa has responded 

by putting legislation in place to minimize risk factors. 
Currently, we are finalizing the content of a 2011 food 
bill  that  will  help  control  the  incoming  flow  of  cheap 
and  non-nutritious  junk  food.  We  are  consistently 
implementing  and  reviewing  relevant 
developing, 
themselves  are  challenged  by 
fragility 
A/66/PV.4
is 
policies  to  help  Samoa  with  lifestyle  issues.  We  are 
doing  the  same  with  our  NCD  policy,  which  provides 
strategic direction for programmes to prevent, control, 
eliminate  and  minimize  the  devastation  of  NCDs  and 
their related disabilities. 

The  Samoan  Government  has  embarked  on  an 
integrated  whole-of-country,  one-health  approach, 
premised  on  the  principles  of  health  promotion  and 
primary health care, to dictate and give direction to our 
prevention  programmes.  Political  support  is  strong, 
with  the  engagement  of  parliamentarians  through  a 
parliamentary advocacy group for healthy living that is 
chaired by the Speaker of the Legislative Assembly and 
whose  members 
include  Cabinet  ministers  and 
parliamentarians.  Another  high-level  political  group 
with  the  same  focus  is  a  women  in  leadership  group 
advocating  for  health,  which 
led  by  women 
parliamentarians. 

The  high  incidence  of  NCDs  contributes  to  the 
vicious  circle  that  impedes  the  ability  of  small  island 
developing countries like Samoa to raise and sustain its 
levels of social and economic development. But we are 
determined  to  put  our  people’s  health  at  the  centre  of 
our trade and economic policies. We are committed to 
ensuring  that  the  social  determinants  of  health  are 
central 
to  all  development  efforts.  After  all, 
development  is  for  the  people  and  future  generations, 
and not the other way around. 

For  many  years  now,  we  have  continued  to 
manage NCDs through diagnosis and treatment within 
the  constraints  of  our  health  system  and  limited 
resources, which is becoming quite expensive and may 
soon  become  unsustainable.  That 
the 
Government  has  pledged  a  stronger  commitment  to 
continuing 
living  and  health 
protection at the national level. 

The year 2011, as the year of NCD advocacy, saw 
the launch a month ago of a bilateral initiative between 
Samoa  and  our  sister  country  American  Samoa.  The 
outcome  was  a  joint  NCD  prevention  and  control 
agreement to address the situation on our islands. The 
statement  urges  our  two  Governments  to  declare  the 
current  NCD  epidemic  a  national  health  and 
development  emergency.  Continuing 
to  strengthen 
health  systems  through  health  promotion  and  primary 
health care was identified as one of the critical areas to 
address immediately. 
to  promote  healthy 
is  why 
11-50349 

25 

in 
is 
long, 
limited 
arduously 
challenging 
A/66/PV.4 


At  the  regional  level,  and  in  collaboration  with 
the World  Health  Organization  and  the  Secretariat  for 
the  Pacific  Community,  we  are  engaged 
the 
implementation of regional programmes to control and 
minimize  the  devastation  that  NCDs  wreaks  on  health 
and development in our Pacific island countries. Samoa 
collaborates  with  many  Pacific  island  countries  to 
revitalize  the  1995  Ministerial  Declaration  on  healthy 
islands,  which  translates  into  practical  terms  the 
settings approach for healthy lifestyles in communities, 
schools, marketplaces, workplaces and churches. These 
two  approaches  to  health  are  for  us  both  doable  and 
affordable,  given  our 
resources.  These 
approaches  are  multisectoral  and  help  to  increase  the 
participation  of  everyone,  including  those  outside  the 
realm of the health sector. 
The  road  ahead  for  us  to  reverse  the  NCD 

epidemic 
and 
overwhelming. This is inevitable, as most of the social 
determinants  responsible  for  the  growth  of  NCDs  in 
our  country  are  outside  the  health  sector’s  control  or 
imposed  on  our  country  by  exogenous  factors.  The 
incidence  of  NCDs  is  no  longer  just  national,  region-
specific  or  a  concern  merely  of  the  developing  world. 
It 
is  a  global  epidemic  requiring  global  action. 
Piecemeal  approaches  are  doomed  to  fail.  Doing 
nothing will only aggravate the situation. We therefore 
call  on  the  United  Nations  to  recognize,  support  and 
help fight this epidemic. 

Samoa supports the long-term vision of achieving 
the  eight  Millennium  Development  Goals,  which  will 
eventually  eliminate  global  poverty.  We  strongly  feel, 
however, that the Millennium Development Goals will 
not  have  fulfilled  their  purpose  unless  we  recognize 
and address the threat posed by the NCD epidemic that 
is now killing over half of the world’s  population  and 
thus perpetuating poverty. 

The  most  vulnerable  are  the  poor  living  in  the 
developing and underdeveloped countries of the world. 
For  the  most  part,  they  are  the  voiceless  victims  of 
industrial,  trade  and  economic  policies,  which  often 
fail  to  include  health  and  well-being  concerns  and 
instead  focus  only  on  financial  gain  for  a  few  at  the 
cost of the early and painful deaths of many. 

In  conclusion,  Samoa  adds  its  voice  to  urge  the 
United Nations to consider non-communicable diseases 
as included in Millennium Development Goal 6, where 
it  refers  to  the  reduction  of  diseases.  With  such 
enhanced emphasis and focus, the devastation of NCDs 
and the threat to our people will finally be recognized 
as  one  development  issue  that  must  be  accurately 
streamlined  into  the  social,  political,  cultural  and 
economic development efforts of all nations. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Yakov  Litzman, 
Minister for Health of Israel.  
Mr. Litzman (Israel): The human race has made 

great  strides  in  the  past  century.  Life  expectancy  has 
doubled  owing  to  miraculous  medical  achievements 
and  the  ability  of  our  health  systems  to  diminish  the 
threat  of  infectious  diseases.  With  this  rise  in  life 
expectancy,  our  health  systems  are  faced  with  a  new 
challenge today: an alarming rise in non-communicable 
diseases (NCDs). Today, NCDs represent 80 per cent of 
the burden on global health services and 60 per cent of 
the global mortality rate. 
NCDs are a global issue. Combating NCDs does 

not  lie  only  within  the  jurisdiction  of  independent 
health ministries; it also demands collaboration within 
our  countries,  across  different  sectors.  It  requires  the 
combined efforts of the private and public sectors and 
the active participation of civil society and the media. 
Finally,  it  requires  significant  collaboration  between 
countries. 
Like all countries in the world, Israel has felt the 

devastating pain of NCDs and wants to be a part of the 
solution. 

Studies  have  shown  that  the  morbidity  and 
mortality  of  NCDs  are  not  equal  among  all  sectors  of 
our  society,  which 
from  over 
90 countries. Therefore,  we  must  strive  to  provide  the 
best  possible  service  to  all  people  within  our  society, 
be they Jews, Muslims or Christians. 

The  Government  of  Israel  has  enacted  a  number 
of policies to promote awareness of early detection and 
to  find  cures  to  diseases  that  currently  have  none. 
Israeli  scientists  have  gained  a  reputation  for  their 
cancer  research,  which 
the 
international scientific literature. 
My Ministry has introduced immunization against 

hepatitis  B. That  programme  has  helped  to  reduce  the 
morbidity  of  the  disease  and  diminish  its  deadly  side 
effects,  such  as  liver  cancer. We  have  also  introduced 
immunization  against  the  human  papilloma  virus  in 
the 
girls  and  young  women,  which  will  reduce 
is  widely  shared 
includes  citizens 
in 
26 

11-50349 
for 
agency 
international 


morbidity of cervical cancer. More than 70 per cent of 
women aged 50 or over are screened for breast cancer, 
a  disease  that  affects  approximately  one  in  eight 
women  in  Israel.  New  cutting-edge  technologies  for 
prevention,  screening,  diagnosis  and 
treatment  of 
NCDs have been added to the services provided by the 
National Health Insurance Law. 

Israel’s  commitment  to  fighting  NCDs  is  also 
reflected  in  its  wide  range  of  partnerships  throughout 
the  developing  world.  For  example,  MASHAV  — 
Israel’s 
development 
cooperation  —  and  Insulin  for  Life Australia  recently 
donated medical supplies to Tonga for the treatment of 
diabetes.  MASHAV  is  also  leading  the  fight  against 
neglected  tropical  diseases  in  Ethiopia,  where  it  is 
facilitating groundbreaking workshops on de-worming. 

We must effectively deal with the causes of these 
diseases  before  we  turn  our  sights  towards  their 
possible  cures.  We  must  galvanize  the  public  behind 
this  cause.  We  must  promote  better  nutrition,  educate 
our  people  about  the  effects  of  alcohol  and  tobacco 
use, and work to diminish environmental pollution. 
these 

commandments are not in heaven. God has given us the 
opportunity  to  lead  our  people,  especially  our  young 
people,  to  better  health.  Investing  in  this  cause  and 
putting NCDs on the national and international agenda 
help  to  ensure  a  brighter  future  for  all  of  us.  Israel 
looks  forward  to  working  in  collaboration  with  our 
neighbours  and  countries  all  over  the  globe  on  this 
crucial issue. 

Allow me to end with an expression of hope and 
prayer. An Israel Defense Forces soldier, Gilad Shalit, 
kidnapped  by  terrorists,  is  being  held  by  force  in  the 
Gaza Strip. Two weeks ago we marked his birthday, his 
fifth in captivity. Not a single person has been allowed 
to  visit  this  boy  for  more  than  1,900  days.  Not  his 
parents. Not a doctor. Not even the Red Cross. We are 
all  responsible  for  the  lives  and  well-being  of  our 
citizens. I issue a call from this Hall to all countries of 
the  world:  let  Gilad  Shalit  go  free!  The  international 
community  must  do  all  in  its  power  to  bring  Gilad 
home. 

give 
Djumabekov, Minister for Health of Kyrgyzstan.  
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 
the  floor 
to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sabyrbek 
the  Holy  Bible, 
is  written 
As 
in 
it 
A/66/PV.4
that 
in 
(spoke 
(Kyrgyzstan) 
Mr.  Djumabekov
We  note  with  concern 
than  one  million  people  —  suffer 
in 

Russian): The Kyrgyz Republic welcomes the report of 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on the prevention and 
control of non-communicable diseases (A/66/83). 

the  Kyrgyz 
Republic,  as  in  many  countries,  non-communicable 
diseases (NCDs) are the leading cause of morbidity and 
premature death among the population. Cardiovascular 
disease  is  the  leading  cause  of  death  in  Kyrgyzstan. 
There is a rising incidence of malignancies, which have 
become the third leading cause of death in the country. 
Moreover, since 2000, the incidence of type 2 diabetes 
in  the  Kyrgyz  Republic  has  increased  by  72  per  cent. 
High  blood  pressure  is  one  of  the  most  widespread 
diseases in Kyrgyzstan. Epidemiological data show that 
more  than  20  per  cent  of  the  country’s  population  — 
more 
from 
hypertension.  

Unfortunately,  I  must  note  that  the  Kyrgyz 
Republic  is  one  of  the  countries  in  an  unsatisfactory 
epidemiological  situation  as 
far  as  cancers  are 
concerned. Recent population mortality data show that 
cancers are one of the leading causes and have a social 
and  economic  impact  on  society.  In  2010,  general 
mortality  from  cancer  in  the  Republic  was  more  than 
50 per cent, while in the capital, Bishkek, it was 60 per 
cent. 

of 
non-communicable  diseases  and  their  incidence  among 
the  working-age  population.  We  are  planning 
to 
international 
conduct 
epidemiological  survey  with 
the  participation  of 
foreign scientists from India, Kazakhstan and Russia. 
Since  2009,  we  have  taken  a  set  of  measures  to 

the  quality  of  oncology  services,  with 
improve 
emphasis  on  the  early  detection  and  prevention  of 
malignancies.  Among 
promising 
developments  are  the  projects  along  the  lines  of  the 
International Atomic Energy Agency.  

The  tobacco  epidemic  is  spreading,  especially 
among  young  people  and  women.  According  to  the 
global survey on tobacco smoking, about 20 per cent of 
students in Kyrgyzstan from 13 to 15 years of age have 
already  tried  smoking,  and  half  of  them  have  become 
regular smokers. Given the high level of morbidity and 
mortality  from  respiratory  diseases,  a  nationwide 
smoking-prevention  programme  has  been  set  up 
through the mobilization of rural health committees. So 
comprehensive 
epidemiology 
the  most 
studied 
We 
have 
the 
a 
joint 
11-50349 

27 

A/66/PV.4 

as to prevent NCDs in Kyrgyzstan, specific efforts are 
under  way  to  raise  patients’  awareness  regarding 
primary  and  secondary  prevention  of  cardiovascular 
diseases through the provision of booklets on measures 
to counter NCDs. 

In  view  of  the  swift  proliferation  of  NCDs,  we 
have  deemed  it  timely  to  implement,  as  a  matter  of 
priority,  a  comprehensive  prevention  programme  and 
national strategies in the area of health care. It is hoped 
that  these  projects  will  have  a  significant  impact  on 
lifestyles  and  the  spread  of  risk  factors,  leading  to  a 
lower incidence of cardiovascular and other diseases. 

In  order  to  ensure  a  comprehensive  approach  to 
the strengthening of the health-care system on the basis 
of primary medical care, there is a need to provide, at 
all levels, adequate training for medical personnel and 
to  strengthen  national  capacities.  In  that  connection,  I 
call  on  all  of  our  potential  donor  partners  to  increase 
their investment in measures aimed at the prevention of 
NCDs. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give  the  floor  to  The  Honourable  Leona  Aglukkaq, 
Minister of Health of Canada. 
Ms.  Aglukkaq  (Canada):  The  Government  of 

Canada  is  concerned  about  the  rising  rates  of  chronic 
diseases,  which  are  the  leading  causes  of  death  in 
Canada. 

The Political Declaration (resolution 66/2, annex) 
puts  a  priority  on  prevention;  we  have  already  done 
this  in  Canada.  Last  fall,  Canada’s  health  ministers 
endorsed  a  declaration  on  prevention  and  promotion. 
We  are  committed 
living, 
preventing disease and reducing health disparities. 
Individuals  can  make  healthier  choices  in  their 

everyday lives to reduce their risks, but  we know that 
promoting  good  health  is  everyone’s  business. That  is 
why solutions should involve a broad base of partners 
such  as  non-governmental  organizations,  all  levels  of 
Government and different sectors whose activities have 
a bearing on health. 

Canada  is  taking  action  in  many  ways.  We  have 
created  a  strong  environment  favouring  the  reduction 
of  smoking  in  Canada.  Our  results  are  impressive. 
Canada’s smoking rate has dropped from 25 per cent in 
1999  down  to  17  per  cent.  That  is  a  historic  low  for 
Canada. 
to  promoting  healthy 
the 
linkages 
language 
in 
Canada’s 
between  mental 
federal,  provincial  and 

territorial 
Governments  are  concerned  by  the  rising  rates  of 
overweight  and  obesity,  particularly  among  Canada’s 
children and youth. One in four children is affected; we 
must  reverse  the  present  trends. To  help  with  this,  we 
are looking to partner with organizations, including the 
media,  to  promote  messages  of  healthy  eating  and 
living. 

The  Government  of  Canada  also  continues  to 
make significant investments to address non-communicable 
diseases  (NCDs)  in  our  indigenous  populations.  We 
hope that we can share our experiences and learn from 
others to make meaningful progress. 
In  the  area  of  mental  illness,  Canada  is  pleased 

the  Political  Declaration 
that 
the 
recognizes 
and 
neurological disorders and NCDs.  

The desire to alleviate human suffering is enough 
reason to increase our efforts to curb NCDs. However, 
they  also  cost  the  Canadian  and  global  economies 
billions  and  billons  of  dollars  every  year.  These  are 
challenges  that  we  in  Canada  will  solve  as  a  society 
and  as  part  of  the  global  community.  Prevention  must 
be  the  foundation  for  our  action  on  NCDs,  both 
domestically and internationally. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give  the  floor  to  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Anne-Grete 
Strøm-Erichsen,  Minister  of  Health  and  Care  Services 
of Norway. 
Ms.  Strøm-Erichsen  (Norway):  Prevention  is 

key  in  the  fight  against  non-communicable  diseases 
(NCDs). We know that preventing chronic diseases is a 
great  investment  for  the  benefit  of  people  and  the 
economy. If we do it right, the prevention of NCDs will 
contribute  to  economic  growth  and  reduce  social 
inequalities in health within and between countries. 

In order to prevent NCDs, national Governments 
must  take  the  lead.  Risk  factors  such  as  tobacco  and 
obesity must be addressed, using policy instruments at 
the  population  level.  National  health  systems  must  be 
strengthened.  But  an  effective  strategy  does  not  rest 
with  the  health  sector  alone;  cross-sectoral  action  is 
needed  in  order  to  respond  effectively  to  the  NCD 
challenge.  We  need  active  involvement  on  the  part  of 
the urban planning, finance, industry, trade, education, 
culture and agriculture sectors. 
28 

11-50349 
to 
including  Norway.  This 



We  need  to  pay  close  attention  to  different 
stakeholders’  roles  with  regard  to  NCDs.  That  is  why 
Norway  has  included  two  members  of  civil  society  in 
our delegation to this meeting. 

We know from experience that setting targets and 
goals is useful in order to achieve progress. “What gets 
measured  gets  done”,  as  many  speakers  have  noted  in 
their  statements.  In  this  regard,  the  World  Health 
Organization  (WHO)  plays  a  leading  role.  Through 
WHO,  we  must  develop  targets,  indicators  and  a 
monitoring  framework  for  countries  to  apply  in  their 
national settings. 

Reducing tobacco consumption is one of the most 
efficient  measures  to  prevent  NCDs.  The  tobacco 
industry  has  taken  legal  action  against  a  number  of 
parties 
the  WHO  Framework  Convention  on 
Tobacco  Control, 
is 
unacceptable. No party to the Convention should allow 
the  tobacco  industry  to  intimidate  us  in  fulfilling  our 
legal obligations to protect public health. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  now 

give the floor to His Excellency Mr. Philippe Courard, 
Secretary of  State  for Social Integration and the Fight 
against Poverty of Belgium. 
in  French): 

Belgium  would  like  to  stress  certain  important  factors 
in the framework of the combat against non-communicable 
diseases (NCDs). 

Given the increasing attention paid to the issue of 
non-communicable diseases, we must begin to think in 
different ways about our health-care policies. That will 
not  be  just  a  matter  of  adapting  health-care  systems, 
but  will  involve  taking  health  into  account  in  all 
policies. 

We deem it crucial to reflect on the future role of 
ministers  of  health  in  the  management  of  the  health-
care  sector.  We  must  take  a  visionary  approach  and 
advocate for health where, unfortunately, it has not yet 
been  taken  into  account.  Health  is  not  just  a  budget 
item  but  a  proven  and  significant  factor  in  promoting 
economic growth, even as it has its own particularities 
and values.  

We  should  also  remodel  our  health  systems, 
where  compartmentalization  is  increasingly  problematic. 
Non-communicable diseases, which often require long-
term  care  and  better  coordination  among  health 
Mr.  Courard  (Belgium)  (spoke 
A/66/PV.4
there  should  be  an 
relocates 
professionals, represent a significant challenge to those 
systems.  

Primary health care, including the family doctor, 
should  have  a  central  role.  To  that  end,  it  is  not  a 
matter  of  specific  new  investments  to  tackle  the 
problems.  Rather, 
internal 
reorganization 
the  comprehensive, 
that 
multidisciplinary  and  long-term  care  for  the  patient  to 
the primary health-care level. That will not only allow 
us to streamline care that is often dispersed throughout 
various different programmes, services and institutions, 
but will also assure the patient access to basic, quality 
care. 

Political action should be guided by good practice 
and good policy with regard to those who are ill. This 
requires  an  integrated  and  societal  approach  that  goes 
beyond  the  limits  of  health-care  systems.  Patients 
should  be  involved  in  the  treatment  of  their  diseases. 
We  should  commit  to  increasing  the  autonomy  of 
patients  so  they  can  define  their  objectives,  especially 
in cases of multimorbidity, where a narrow biomedical 
approach is no longer justified. 
Inequalities in the field of health are also a major 

issue. We notice, for instance, that in the so-called rich 
countries, those most affected are the people with a low 
income.  Chronic  diseases,  such  as  non-communicable 
diseases, are the main cause of health expenses, which 
are often difficult for patients to bear. For that reason, 
and  in  this  time  of  financial  crisis,  we  have  to  pay 
particular attention to that fact and make special efforts 
to  fight  those  inequalities  with  regard  to  health.  The 
health-care system should be a unifying factor and not 
a 
fight  against 
inequalities  should  be  a  key  element  in  all  of  our 
strategies  in  this  context.  We  should  assure  ourselves 
that these policies contribute to the reduction of health 
inequalities. 

We should focus on early, proactive and effective 
interventions,  on  secondary  prevention,  on  access  to 
affordable care, and on the implementation of new care 
models,  particularly  in  the  field  of  primary  and 
community health care. I would therefore like to appeal 
to  all  countries  to  engage  in  the  battle  against 
non-communicable diseases and to formulate their own 
policies on the issue, centring them on the patient. The 
principle  of  “health  in  all  policies”  should  be  applied 
here.  In  other  words,  we  should  connect  all  parties 
involved, across all sectors. 
for  marginalization.  The 
force 
11-50349 

29 
A/66/PV.4 


It  is  important  that  we  put  in  place  initiatives  in 
the field of prevention and innovative health  care that 
bring  an  added  value.  Only  global  strategies  that 
combine  prevention, 
the  

the  patients’  experience, 

excellence  of  doctors,  innovative  research  and  the 
support of public authorities will allow us to mobilize 
an effective fight against non-communicable diseases. 

  The meeting rose at 6.25 p.m. 
30 

11-50349 
