
A/66/PV.43
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

43rd plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 26 October 2011, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 
to 
of 
all 
As 
the 
the 
the 
accept 
second 
examined 
report  of 
credentials 
credentials  of 

The  General  Assembly  now  has  before  it  the 
second report of the Committee, dated 20 October 2011 
(A/66/360/Add.1),  concerning 
the  credentials  of 
representatives  of  Member  States  to  the  sixty-sixth 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  other  than  the 
credentials of the representatives contained in the first 
report. 

the  Credentials 
Committee  indicates,  the  Committee  decided,  after 
having 
those 
representatives  to  the  sixty-sixth  session  listed  in  the 
report, 
the 
representatives  of  the  Member  States  concerned.  This 
proposal was adopted without a vote. 

I would also like to recall that, since the adoption 
of  the  report  by  the  Credentials  Committee,  the 
following  Member  States  have  submitted  formal 
credentials in the form required by rule 27 of the rules 
of  procedure  of  the  General  Assembly:  Moldova, 
Mauritania, Ukraine and Uzbekistan. 

the  General 
Assembly proceed to approve the second report of the 
Credentials  Committee  as  contained 
in  document 
A/66/360/Add.1. 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The  General 
Assembly will now take action on the draft resolution 
recommended  by 
in 
paragraph 11 of its report (A/66/360/Add.1). 

The  Credentials  Committee  adopted  the  draft 
resolution  entitled  “Credentials  of  representatives  to 
the  Credentials  Committee 
I  would 
Finally, 
request 
that 





  The meeting was called to order at 10.25 a.m. 




Agenda item 3 (continued)
Credentials of representatives to the sixty-sixth 
session of the General Assembly 
  (b)  Report of the Credentials Committee 

  Second report of the Credentials Committee 
(A/66/360/Add.1) 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  The  draft 
resolution recommended by the Credentials Committee 
in paragraph 11 of its report reads as follows: 



“The General Assembly,  

“Having considered the second report of the 
Credentials  Committee  and  the  recommendation 
contained therein,  

Credentials Committee.” 

I  now  give  the  floor  to  the  Chairman  of  the 
Credentials  Committee,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Pablo 
Antonio Thalassinós of Panama. 

Mr.  Thalassinós  (Panama),  Chairman  of  the 
Credentials Committee: I have the honour to introduce 
the second report of the Credentials Committee for the 
sixty-sixth session of the General Assembly. 

Members  will  recall  that  the  General  Assembly 
approved the first report of the Credentials Committee 
(A/66/360) at its meeting on 16 September, pursuant to 
resolution 66/1. 

“Approves 
report  of 
second 
the 
the 

This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-56448 (E) 
*1156448* 




A/66/PV.43 

the  sixty-sixth  session  of  the  General  Assembly” 
without a vote. May I take it that the Assembly wishes 
to do the same? 


Assembly  has 
consideration of sub-item (b) of agenda item 3. 
The draft resolution was adopted (resolution 66/1 B). 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic): The  General 
its 
thus  concluded 
this  stage  of 





the  report  of 
Agenda item 72 
Report of the International Court of Justice 

the  Secretary-General,  circulated 
  Report of the International Court of Justice 
(A/66/4) 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/66/295) 

The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic): The  General 

Assembly  will  now  consider 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice  covering  the  period 
1 August  2010  to  31  July  2011,  which  is  contained  in 
document  A/66/4.  May  I  take  it  that  the  General 
Assembly  takes  note  of  the  report  of  the  International 
Court of Justice? 
It was so decided. 


The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic): In  connection 
with this item, the Assembly also has before it a report 
of 
in  document 
A/66/295,  on  his  Trust  Fund  to  Assist  States  in  the 
Settlement of Disputes through the International Court 
of Justice. 

It is now my great honour to welcome to United 
Nations  Headquarters  His  Excellency  Mr.  Hisashi 
Owada, President of the International Court of Justice, 
and to give him the floor. 
Mr. Owada, President of the International Court 

of  Justice:  It  is  an  honour  and  privilege  for  me  to 
address  the  General  Assembly  for  the  third  time  as 
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  on  the 
report  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  for  the 
period from 1 August 2010 to 31 July 2011 (A/66/4). I 
wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  you, 
Ambassador  Al-Nasser,  on  your  election  as  President 
of the Assembly at its sixty-sixth session, and to wish 
you every success in your office. 

I  would  now  like,  as  is  traditional,  to  present  a 
succinct  review  of  the  judicial  activities  of  the  Court 
during the past year, that is, from October of last year 
to September this year.  
in 
Territorial 
the  Border  Area 

The  international  community  of  States  continues 
to  bring  a  wide  variety  of  legal  disputes  to  the  Court. 
Since  I  addressed  the Assembly  in  October  2010  (see 
A/65/PV.38),  the  Court  has  altogether  rendered  four 
judgments  and  three  orders.  They  are  a  judgment  on 
the  merits  in  the  case  concerning  Ahmadou  Sadio 
Diallo (Republic of Guinea v. Democratic Republic of 
the Congo); one order on provisional measures, in the 
case  concerning  Certain  Activities  carried  out  by 
(Costa  Rica  v.
Nicaragua 
Nicaragua);  a  judgment  on  preliminary  objections  in 
the  case  concerning  Application  of  the  International 
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial 
Discrimination  (Georgia  v.  Russian  Federation);  two 
judgments denying requests for intervention in the case 
and  Maritime  Dispute 
concerning 
(Nicaragua  v.  Colombia),  respectively  filed  by  Costa 
Rica  and  Honduras;  as  well  as  an  order  granting  an 
application  for  permission  to  intervene  in  the  case 
concerning  Jurisdictional  Immunities  of 
the  State 
(Germany  v.  Italy),  filed  by  Greece;  and  an  order  on 
provisional  measures  in  the  case  concerning  Request 
for Interpretation of the  Judgment of 15 June 1962 in 
the  Case  concerning  the Temple  of  Preah  Vihear
(Cambodia  v.  Thailand)  (Cambodia  v.  Thailand). 
These  cases  have  involved  States  from  all  regions  of 
the  world,  and  have  raised  a  broad  range  of  legal 
questions. 

Let  me  recapitulate  them  one  by  one  in  strict 
chronological  order.  First,  on  30  November  2010,  the 
Court  rendered  its  judgment  on  the  merits  in  the  case 
concerning Ahmadou Sadio Diallo (Republic of Guinea
v.  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo).  As  will  no 
doubt  be 
this  case  concerned  alleged 
violations of the rights of Mr. Diallo, a Guinean citizen 
who  settled  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo 
in  1964  and  founded  two  companies:  Africom-Zaire 
and  Africontainers-Zaire.  At  the  end  of  the  1980s, 
Africom-Zaire and Africontainers-Zaire, acting through 
their gérant, Mr. Diallo, instituted proceedings against 
their business partners in an attempt to recover various 
debts.  The  disputes  over 
the  debts  continued 
throughout the 1990s and remained largely unresolved. 
On  25  January  1988,  Mr.  Diallo  was  arrested  and 
imprisoned  and  released  a  year  later.  On  5  November 
1995,  Mr.  Diallo  was  again  arrested  and  placed  in 
detention  with  a  view  to  his  expulsion,  which  was 
carried out on 31 January 1996. 
recalled, 
2 

11-56448 
individual  and 
the  Court  had  held 


In  its  prior  judgment  of  24  May  2007  on 

preliminary  objections, 
the 
application of the Republic of Guinea to be admissible 
insofar  as  it  concerned  the  protection  of  Mr.  Diallo’s 
rights  as  an 
the  protection  of 
Mr. Diallo’s  direct  rights  as  associé  in  Africom-Zaire 
and  Africontainers-Zaire,  but  declared  it  inadmissible 
insofar  as  the  application  concerned  the  protection  of 
Mr. Diallo in respect of alleged violations of rights of 
Africom-Zaire and Africontainers-Zaire.  

In  its  final  judgment  of  30  November  2010, 
which is the subject matter of the report today, the first 
question  was  that  of  the  protection  of  Mr.  Diallo’s 
rights  as  an  individual.  As  a  preliminary  matter,  the 
Court  found  that  the  claim  relating  to  Mr.  Diallo’s 
arrest  and  detention  in  1988  to  1989  should  be 
excluded  from  its  consideration,  as  it  had  not  been 
raised  by  Guinea  until  its  reply  and  was  neither 
implicit  in  the  original  application  nor  arose  directly 
out of a question in that application, which concerned 
events in 1995 to 1996. 

On  that  basis,  the  Court  considered  Guinea’s 
claim  that  the  circumstances  in  which  Mr.  Diallo  was 
arrested, detained and expelled during the period 1995 
to  1996  constituted  a  breach  by  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo of its international obligations. 
Guinea  argued  that  Mr.  Diallo’s  expulsion  from  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo breached article 13 
of  the  International  Covenant  on  Civil  and  Political 
Rights  and  article  12,  paragraph  4,  of  the  African 
Charter on Human and Peoples’ Rights.  

On this point, the Court observed that, in order to 
comply with those provisions, the expulsion of an alien 
lawfully  in  the  territory  of  a  State  which  is  a  party  to 
those  instruments  must  be  decided  in  accordance  with 
applicable  domestic  law  and  must  not  be  arbitrary  in 
nature.  The  Court  held  that  the  expulsion  decree  of 
31 October  1995  did  not  comply  with  Congolese  law 
and  that  the  expulsion  was  therefore  in  violation  of 
article  13  of  the  International  Covenant  on  Civil  and 
Political  Rights  and  article  12,  paragraph  4,  of  the 
African Charter. The Court also found that Mr. Diallo’s 
right,  afforded  by  article  13  of  the  Covenant,  to  have 
his  case  reviewed  by  a  competent  authority  had  not 
been  respected,  and  that  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the Congo had not demonstrated compelling reasons of 
national security to justify the denial of that right. 
A/66/PV.43

Furthermore,  the  Court  held  that  Mr.  Diallo’s 
arrests  and  detention  also  violated  article  9  of  the 
Covenant  and  article  6  of 
the  African  Charter, 
concerning liberty and security of the person. It found 
that  the  deprivations  of  liberty  suffered  by  Mr.  Diallo 
did  not  take  place  in  accordance  with  the  law  of  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo,  that  they  were 
arbitrary, and that Mr. Diallo had not been informed, at 
the time of his arrests, of the reasons for those arrests 
or the charges against him. In addition, the Court found 
that  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  had  also 
violated  article  36,  paragraph  1  (b)  of  the  Vienna 
Convention  on  Consular  Relations  by  not  informing 
Mr.  Diallo,  at  the  time  of  his  arrests,  of  his  right  to 
request consular assistance from his country.  
On  the  other  hand,  with  regard  to  the  claim  of 

Guinea  that  Mr.  Diallo  was  subjected  to  inhuman  or 
degrading  treatment  while  in  detention,  the  Court 
concluded that Guinea had failed to establish that such 
had been the case. 

The  second  question  that  the  Court  dealt  with  in 
accordance with the disposition of the earlier judgment 
was the question of the protection of Mr. Diallo’s direct 
rights  as  associé  in Africom-Zaire  and Africontainers-
Zaire. On this question, the Court considered Guinea’s 
claim  that  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  had 
committed  several  internationally  wrongful  acts  that 
engaged its responsibility towards Guinea, in particular 
the claim that there had been breaches of Mr. Diallo’s 
right  to  take  part  and  vote  in  general  meetings,  of  his 
rights relating to the gérance of the companies, of his 
right to oversee and monitor that management and the 
to  property  of  Mr.  Diallo  over  his  parts 
right 
sociales — that is, the shares — in the companies. The 
Court  found  that  the  alleged  rights  of  Mr.  Diallo  as 
associé  were  not  legally  denied,  even  though  their 
exercise  may  have  been  made  more  difficult  by  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo’s  expulsion  of 
Mr. Diallo.  The  Court  did  not  find  that  any  of  those 
claimed breaches had occurred. 

In  the  light  of  the  circumstances  of  the  case,  in 
particular  the  fundamental  character  of  the  human 
rights obligations breached, the Court upheld Guinea’s 
claim  for  reparation  in  the  form  of  compensation  for 
the injury suffered by Mr. Diallo. 

Secondly, the next decision rendered by the Court 
in  the  period  under  review  was  its  order  of  8  March 
2011  on  the  request  for  the  indication  of  provisional 
11-56448 

3 

in 
A/66/PV.43 

measures,  pursuant  to Article  41  of  the  Statute  of  the 
the  case  concerning  Certain  Activities 
Court, 
Carried  Out  by  Nicaragua  in  the  Border  Area  (Costa 
Rica  v.  Nicaragua).  The  case  was  brought  by  Costa 
Rica by an application filed on 18 November 2010, in 
which it founded the jurisdiction of the Court on article 
XXXI  of  the  Pact  of  Bogotá  and  on  the  declarations 
made  by  the  two  States  pursuant  to  Article  36, 
paragraph 2, of the Statute. The application was filed in 
regard to an alleged “incursion into, occupation of and 
use  by  Nicaragua’s  Army  of  Costa  Rican  territory  as 
well  as  breaches  of  Nicaragua’s  obligations  towards 
Costa  Rica”.  Costa  Rica  claimed  that  Nicaragua  had 
occupied  the  territory  of  Costa  Rica  on  two  separate 
occasions  in  connection  with  the  construction  of  a 
canal,  as  well  as  certain  related  works  of  dredging  on 
the San Juan River. 

Pending  the  determination  of  the  case  on  the 
merits,  Costa  Rica  requested  the  Court  to  order,  as 
provisional measures, that Nicaragua not station troops 
or  other  personnel,  engage  in  the  construction  or 
enlargement of a canal, fell trees, remove vegetation or 
dump  sediment  in  the  area  concerned;  that  Nicaragua 
suspend  its  dredging  programme;  and  that  Nicaragua 
refrain  from  any  other  action  that  might  prejudice  the 
rights of Costa Rica. 

In its order on provisional measures of protection, 
the  Court  determined  that  the  instruments  invoked  by 
Costa Rica appeared, prima facie, to afford a basis on 
which the Court had jurisdiction to rule on the merits, 
enabling  it  to  indicate  provisional  measures  if  it 
considered  that  the  circumstances  so  required.  The 
Court  also  found  that  the  rights  to  be  protected  by 
those  requested  measures  —  in  particular  the  right  to 
assert  sovereignty  over  a  contested  area  along  the 
boundary  —  were  plausible  and  that  a  link  existed 
between  the  rights  the  protection  of  which  was  being 
sought and the provisional measures requested. 

On the basis of that finding that it had the power 
to  indicate  provisional  measures,  the  Court  proceeded 
to examine whether there was a real and imminent risk 
that irreparable prejudice might be caused to the rights 
in dispute before the Court had given its final decision, 
and found that, given that Nicaragua intended to carry 
out  certain  activities,  if  only  occasionally,  in  the 
contested  area,  a  real  risk  of  irreparable  prejudice  to 
Costa Rica’s claimed title to sovereignty over the said 
territory  did  exist.  It  further  found  that  the  situation 
gave rise to a real and present risk of incidents liable to 
cause irremediable harm in the form of bodily injury or 
death. 

On the basis of those findings, the Court decided 
to indicate provisional measures to both of the parties, 
ordering  that  each  party  refrain  from  sending  to  or 
maintaining  in  the  disputed  territory  any  personnel, 
whether  civilian,  police  or  security,  until  such  time  as 
the  dispute  on  the  merits  had  been  decided  or  the 
parties had come to an agreement on the subject.  

In  addition,  the  Court  held  that  Costa  Rica  may 
dispatch civilian personnel charged with the protection 
of the environment of the disputed territory, insofar as 
it  is  necessary  to  avoid  irreparable  prejudice  being 
caused to the part of the wetland where that territory is 
situated, on the condition that Costa Rica consult with 
the  secretariat  of  the  Ramsar  Convention  on Wetlands 
in  regard  to  those  actions,  and  give  Nicaragua  prior 
notice of them. The Court also ordered that each party 
refrain from any action that might aggravate or extend 
the  dispute  before  the  Court  or  make  it  more  difficult 
to  resolve,  and  that  each  party  inform  the  Court  as  to 
its compliance with the provisional measures. 
Thirdly, the third decision of the Court related to 

its judgment of 1 April 2011 on preliminary objections 
in the case concerning Application of the International 
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial 
Discrimination  (Georgia  v.  Russian  Federation).  As 
members no doubt recall, proceedings in that case were 
instituted on 12 August 2008, when Georgia brought a 
case  against 
the  Russian  Federation,  alleging  a 
violation  by  the  latter  of  the  1965  International 
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial 
the 
Discrimination 
jurisdiction  of 
that 
Convention.  

The  Court  gave  its  judgment  in  2008  on  the 
application  in  respect  to  provisional  measures  of 
protection, finding that it had prima facie jurisdiction. 
In  the  next  phase  of  the  case,  which  is  the  present 
phase,  the  Russian  Federation  raised  four  preliminary 
objections  to  the  Court’s  jurisdiction  under  article  22 
of  CERD.  Its  objections  were,  first,  that  no  dispute 
between 
the 
interpretation  or  application  of  CERD;  secondly,  that 
the procedural requirements of article 22 of CERD had 
not  been  fulfilled;  thirdly,  that  the  alleged  wrongful 
conduct  had  taken  place  outside  the  territory  of  the 
Russian  Federation,  and 
lacked 
(CERD).  Georgia 
founded 
the  Court  on  article  22  of 
concerning 
existed 
thus 
the  Court 
the 
parties 
4 

11-56448 
to 
the 
ratione 
fourthly, 
loci;  and 


jurisdiction 
that  any 
jurisdiction  that  the  Court  might  have  was  limited 
ratione  temporis  to  events  that  had  occurred  after  the 
entry into force of CERD between the parties on 2 July 
1999. 

The  Court  examined  the  Russian  Federation’s 
first preliminary objection in relation to events during 
three  distinct  time  periods.  With  respect  to  the  first 
period, which was the period before CERD had entered 
into force between the parties on 2 July 1999, the Court 
concluded that there was no evidence of the existence 
of  a  dispute  about  racial  discrimination  during  that 
period  and  that  even  if  a  dispute  had  been  found  to 
have existed, it could not have been a dispute between 
the  parties  with  respect 
interpretation  or 
application of CERD.  

With  regard  to  the  second  period,  from  the  time 
when CERD entered into force between the parties and 
before  the  beginning  of  armed  conflict  between  the 
parties  in  early  August  2008,  the  Court  reviewed  the 
documents  and  statements  during  that  period  and 
concluded  that  none  of  the  documents  or  statements 
from  that  period  provided  any  basis  for  a  finding  that 
there  was  a  dispute  between  Georgia  and  the  Russian 
Federation  with  respect  to  the  interpretation  and 
application of CERD during that time frame. 

With  respect  to  the  events  that  occurred  during 
the third period, August 2008 — in particular after the 
armed hostilities in South Ossetia that began during the 
night of 7 and 8 August — the Court found that, while 
Georgia’s claims were primarily focused on allegations 
of unlawful use of force, they also expressly referred to 
ethnic cleansing by Russian forces. All of those claims 
had been made against the Russian Federation directly 
and had been rejected by the latter. The Court therefore 
concluded that, by 12 August 2008, there was a dispute 
between Georgia and the Russian Federation about the 
latter’s  compliance  with  its  obligations  under  CERD. 
The  Court 
accordingly  dismissed 
the  Russian 
Federation’s first preliminary objection. 

the  Russian 
examined 
Federation’s  second  preliminary  objection,  concerning 
the procedural requirements under article 22 of CERD, 
which provides that 

is  not  settled  by 
“[a]ny  dispute 
negotiation  or  by 
the  procedures  expressly 
provided  for  in  this  Convention,  shall  ...  be 
The  Court 
...  which 
then 
A/66/PV.43
referred  to  the  International  Court  of  Justice  for 
decision”.  
to  be 
focused  on 
fulfilled  before 
The Court found, based on an analysis of the ordinary 
meaning of the phrase used, that article 22 did establish 
certain  preconditions 
the 
applicant  could  seize  the  Court  on  the  basis  of  article 
22. 

On  that  basis,  the  Court  examined  whether  such 
preconditions  had  been  met.  In  the  instant  case,  with 
regard  to  the  requirement  to  follow  “the  procedures 
expressly provided for” in CERD, the Court noted that 
both sides agreed that, prior to the seizing of the Court, 
Georgia did not claim that it had used or attempted to 
that  mode  of  dispute  resolution.  The  Court 
use 
therefore 
the  question  of  whether 
negotiation  was  a  required  precondition  and,  if  so, 
whether  that  condition  had  been  fulfilled.  It  observed, 
in  the  light  of  its  finding  on  the  first  preliminary 
objection,  that  the  dispute  had  arisen  only  as  of 
9 August 2008, and that the issue could be examined in 
relation to the period between that date and 12 August 
2008, when the application was filed.  
After reviewing the facts in the record relating to 

that  period,  the  Court  found  that,  although  certain 
claims and counterclaims had been made by the parties 
during  that  period  concerning  ethnic  cleansing,  which 
might  evidence  the  existence  of  a  dispute  as  to  the 
interpretation  and  application  of  CERD,  they  did  not 
amount to attempts at negotiations by either party. The 
Court 
that  Georgia  had  not 
established that, in the relevant period, it had attempted 
to  negotiate  CERD-related  matters  with  the  Russian 
Federation,  and 
the  Russian 
Federation had engaged in negotiations with respect to 
the latter’s compliance with its substantive obligations 
under CERD. 

requirement 
Having 
established  in  article  22  had  not  been  satisfied,  the 
Court  concluded  that  it  did  not  need  to  determine 
whether  the  two  conditions  set  out  in  article  22  were 
cumulative  or  alternative.  The  Court  accordingly  held 
that  article  22  of  CERD  could  not  serve  to  found  the 
Court’s 
the  Russian 
Federation’s second preliminary objection. It therefore 
concluded that the case could not proceed to the merits 
phase,  noting  that  it  did  not  need  to  consider  the 
Russian  Federation’s 
third  or  fourth  preliminary 
objections. 
therefore  concluded 
that  Georgia  and 
and  upheld 
jurisdiction, 
determined 
that 
the 
11-56448 

5 

intervene  as  a  non-party  for 
A/66/PV.43 


Let me now turn to the two judgments of 4 May 
2011  relating  to  the  requests  to  intervene  in  the  case 
the  Territorial  and  Maritime  Dispute 
concerning 
(Nicaragua  v.  Colombia),  filed  by  Costa  Rica  and 
Honduras, respectively.  

The  principal  case  between  Nicaragua  and 
Colombia  concerns  the  disputed  sovereignty  over 
several maritime features in the Caribbean Sea, as well 
as  the  plotting  of  the  maritime  boundary  between  the 
parties.  On  25  February  and  10 
June  2010, 
respectively,  Costa  Rica  and  Honduras  filed  requests 
for permission to intervene in the case. 
In its application, Costa Rica stated that it sought 

to 
the  purpose  of 
informing the Court of the nature of its legal rights and 
interests  and  of  seeking  to  ensure  that  the  Court’s 
decision  regarding  the  maritime  boundary  between 
Nicaragua and Colombia did not affect those rights and 
interests.  

In  its  judgment  of  4  May  on  whether  to  grant 
Costa  Rica’s  application  to  intervene,  the  Court  first 
defined  the  legal  framework  for  intervention  provided 
for under Article 62 of its Statute and article 81 of the 
Rules of Court. 

The  Court  examined  whether  Costa  Rica  had 
established  an  interest  of  a  legal  nature  that  may  be 
affected  by  the  decision  in  the  main  proceedings. The 
Court accepted that although Nicaragua and Colombia 
differed in their assessments as to the limits of the area 
in  which  Costa  Rica  might  have  a  legal  interest,  they 
both  recognized  the  existence  of  Costa  Rica’s  interest 
of a legal nature in at least some areas claimed by the 
parties to the main proceedings. 

However, the Court, in examining whether Costa 
Rica had established that the interest of a legal nature 
that it had set out was one which “may be affected” by 
the  decision  of  the  Court  in  the  main  proceedings, 
concluded  that  Costa  Rica  had  not  succeeded  in 
establishing  that  point.  The  Court  stated  that,  in 
accordance with its consistent practice, when drawing a 
line  delimiting  the  maritime  areas  between  the  parties 
to  the  main  proceedings,  that  it  would,  whenever 
necessary, end the line in question before it reached an 
area  in  which  the  interests  of  a  legal  nature  of  third 
States  might  become  involved.  In  that  situation,  the 
Court held that Costa Rica’s application for permission 
to intervene in the case could not be granted. 

Honduras, in its application, made it clear that it 
primarily  sought  to  be  permitted  to  intervene  in  the 
pending case as a party. It was only if the Court did not 
accede  to  that  request  that  Honduras  requested,  in  the 
alternative, to be permitted to intervene as a non-party.  

In  its  judgment  of  4  May  2011  on  whether  to 
grant  the  application  of  Honduras  to  intervene,  the 
Court  devoted  a  significant  part  of  its  analysis  to  the 
question of intervention as a party.  

The  Court  noted  that  while  neither Article  62  of 
the  Statute  nor  article  81  of  the  Rules  of  Court 
specified  the  category  in  which  a  State  might  seek  to 
intervene — namely, as a party or as a non-party — it 
is  accepted  by  the  case  law  of  the  Court  that  a  State 
might be permitted to intervene either as a non-party or 
as  a  party.  The  Court  pointed  out,  however,  that 
whatever  the  capacity  in  which  a  State  is  seeking  to 
intervene,  whether  as  a  party  or  a  non-party,  it  must 
fulfil  the  condition  laid  down  by  Article  62  of  the 
Statute and demonstrate that it has an interest of a legal 
nature that might be affected by the future decision of 
the Court.  
On that basis, the Court turned to an examination 

of  whether  Honduras  had  satisfied  that  condition. The 
area  in  which  Honduras  had  specified  that  it  had  an 
interest of a legal nature that might be affected by the 
decision in the main proceedings was an area that had 
been the subject of the Court’s judgment of 8 October 
2007  in  the  case  concerning  Territorial  and  Maritime 
Dispute  between  Nicaragua  and  Honduras  in  the 
Caribbean Sea (Nicaragua v. Honduras). The question 
on which the Court focused was whether that judgment 
of 2007, to which Honduras was a party, barred it from 
making  the  request  to  intervene  in  a  case  in  which 
Honduras claimed to have an interest of a legal nature. 

The Court decided that by virtue of the principle 
of res judicata, as applied to the judgment of 8 October 
2007,  Honduras  could  not  have  an  interest  of  a  legal 
nature in the area south of the maritime boundary line 
established by the Court in that decision. With respect 
to  the  area  north  of  that  boundary  line,  the  Court 
concluded  that  Honduras  could  have  no  interest  of  a 
legal  nature  that  might  be  affected  by  the  decision  in 
the main proceedings for the simple reason that neither 
of  the  parties  to  the  new  proceedings,  Nicaragua  nor 
Colombia, was contesting the rights of  Honduras over 
that area.  
6 

11-56448 
in 
the 
case 



The Court held that Honduras had no interest of a 
legal  nature  that  might  be  affected  in  any  of  the 
maritime areas it had identified in its application. The 
Court  further  observed  that  Honduras  could  not  claim 
an  interest  of  a  legal  nature  in  the  effects  that  the 
decision  of  the  Court  in  the  main  proceedings  might 
have  on  the  rights  of  Honduras  under  the  1986 
Maritime  Delimitation  Treaty,  which  had  been  agreed 
between Honduras and Colombia, inasmuch as it was a 
bilateral treaty and the matter was exclusively between 
Honduras and Colombia and as such had no relevance 
to  the  Court’s  eventual  determination  of  the  maritime 
boundary between Nicaragua and Colombia. For those 
reasons,  the  Court  held  that  the  Honduran  application 
for permission to intervene in the case, either as a party 
or as a non-party, could not be granted. 

Now  I  will  move  to  the  fifth  case. That  case,  in 
which the Court handed down its decision in the form 
of  an  order  on  4  July  2011,  relates  to  a  request  to 
intervene  by  Greece 
concerning 
Jurisdictional  Immunities  of  the  State  (Germany  v.
Italy).  

The  Hellenic  Republic  filed  an  application  for 
permission  to  intervene  in  that  case  on  13  January 
2011.  The  main  proceedings  to  which  the  application 
relates  concern  a  dispute  over  whether  Italy  has 
violated  the  jurisdictional  immunity  of  Germany  by 
allowing  civil  claims  against  it  in  Italian  courts  based 
on  violations  of  international  humanitarian  law  by  the 
Third Reich during the Second World War.  

The  basis  for  Greece’s  application  to  intervene 
was that it had an interest of a legal nature to the extent 
that the Court, in the decision it would be called upon 
to  render  in  the  case  between  Germany  and  Italy, 
would  rule  on  the  question  of  whether  a  judgment 
handed  down  by  a  Greek  court  can  be  enforced  on 
Italian 
to  Germany’s 
jurisdictional immunity. Greece stated that the decision 
of the Court as to whether Italian and Greek judgments 
for  which  the  Italian  Court  had  given  judgment  to 
enforce  in  Italy  may  be  enforced  in  Italy  was  directly 
and primarily of interest to Greece and could affect its 
interest of a legal nature. 

The  Court  took  the  position  that,  in  a  judgment 
that  it  would  render  in  the  main  proceedings  between 
Germany  and  Italy,  it  might  find  it  necessary  to 
consider  also  the  decisions  of  Greek  courts  in  the 
context  of  the  principle  of  State  immunity  —  which 
territory,  having 
regard 
A/66/PV.43
the 
having 
Greece 
criteria 
was  the  issue  in  the  main  proceedings  —  for  the 
purposes  of  examining  the  request  in  Germany’s 
submissions  relating  to  the  issue  of  whether  Italy 
committed  a  breach  of  Germany’s 
jurisdictional 
immunity by declaring Greek judgments as enforceable 
in Italy. Given that possibility, the Court held that this 
element was sufficient to conclude that Greece had an 
interest  of  a  legal  nature  that  may  be  affected  by  the 
judgment  in  the  main  proceedings.  The  request  for 
intervention was therefore granted. 

for 
fulfilled 
intervention  laid  down  in  article  81  of  the  Rules  of 
Court,  the  Court  granted  its  request  to  intervene  as  a 
non-party, insofar as the intervention would be limited 
to  decisions  relating  to  illegal  acts  committed  by 
Germany  during  the  Second  World  War  rendered  by 
Greek  domestic  courts  and  declared  enforceable  by 
Italian  courts.  The  request  having  been  granted,  the 
Court  gave  its  decision  in  the  form  of  an  order  of  a 
procedural nature, specifying the forms of procedure to 
follow, rather than in the form of a judgment, as it was 
in  the  two  previous  judgments  that  I  discussed  earlier 
in this report. 

Let me turn now to the sixth case — an order on 
provisional  measures  handed  down  by  the  Court  on 
18 July  2011  in  the  case  concerning  the  Request  for 
Interpretation of the Judgment of 15 June 1962 in the 
Case  concerning 
the  Temple  of  Preah  Vihear
(Cambodia  v.  Thailand) (Cambodia  v.  Thailand).  The 
case was brought before the Court by Cambodia. 

Cambodia filed a request for interpretation of an 
earlier  judgment  rendered  by  the  Court  on  15  June 
1962,  under Article  60  of  the  Statute  of  the  Court,  on 
28 April 2011. Cambodia claimed that a dispute existed 
between the parties as to the meaning and scope of the 
1962  judgment.  In  the  1962  judgment,  the  Court  had 
found, inter alia, that Cambodia held sovereignty over 
the  Temple  of  Preah  Vihear,  situated  in  the  boundary 
area between Cambodia and Thailand. 

On  the  same  day  that  it  filed  its  application  for 
interpretation  of  the  1962  judgment,  Cambodia  also 
submitted  a  request  for  the  indication  of  provisional 
measures  in  order  to  cause  the  incursions  onto  its 
territory  by  Thailand  to  cease,  pending  the  Court’s 
decision  on  the  request  for  interpretation  of  the  1962 
judgment. 
At this stage of the proceedings, when the Court 

dealt with the request for provisional measures, it first 
11-56448 

7 
the 
the  1962 
in  dispute, 
judgment  as 
line  shown  on 
the  rights  which  were 
A/66/PV.43 

addressed  the  issue  of  whether  a  dispute  appeared  to 
exist as to the meaning or scope of the 1962 judgment, 
relating in particular, first, to the meaning and scope of 
the phrase “vicinity on Cambodian territory” as used in 
the operative clause of that judgment; secondly, to the 
nature  of  the  obligation  imposed  on  Thailand  by  the 
operative  clause  to  withdraw  any  military  or  police 
forces,  or  other  guards  or  keepers;  and  thirdly,  to  the 
issue of whether the judgment did or did not recognize 
with  binding  force 
the  map 
submitted  by  Cambodia  in  the  original  proceedings  as 
representing the frontier between the two parties. 

In  its  order  of  18  July  2011,  the  Court  held  that 
the  rights  claimed  by  Cambodia,  insofar  as  they  were 
based  on 
interpreted  by 
Cambodia,  were  plausible  and  that  the  necessary  link 
between the alleged rights and the measures requested 
had  been  established.  Examining  whether  there  was  a 
real  risk  of  irreparable  prejudice  that  might  be  caused 
to 
the  Court 
concluded  that  because  of  the  persistent  tensions  and 
absence of a settlement to the conflict, there was a real 
and  imminent  risk  of  irreparable  prejudice  being 
caused  to  the  rights  claimed  by  Cambodia,  and  that 
there was urgency. 

On  that  basis,  the  Court  decided  to  indicate 
provisional  measures  to  both  parties.  In  the  order,  the 
Court 
provisional 
demilitarized  zone,  the  coordinates  of  which  were  set 
out  in  its  order,  and  ordered  both  parties  immediately 
to withdraw their military personnel from that zone and 
to refrain from any military presence within that zone 
and from any armed activity directed at that zone. 

The  Court  also  ordered  both  parties,  first,  to 
continue  the  cooperation  that  they  had  entered  into 
with the Association of Southeast Asian Nations and, in 
particular,  to  allow  the  observers  appointed  by  the 
organization 
the  provisional 
demilitarized zone; secondly, to refrain from any action 
that  might  aggravate  or  extend  the  dispute  before  the 
Court or make it more difficult to resolve; and thirdly 
and finally, to inform the Court as to compliance with 
the  provisional  measures.  It  also  ordered Thailand  not 
to  obstruct  Cambodia’s  free  access  to  the  Temple  of 
Preah Vihear or Cambodia’s provision of fresh supplies 
to its non-military personnel in the Temple.  

during the period covered by this presentation.  
Those are the cases that the Court has disposed of 
to  have  access 
established 
in 
particular 
a 

intervening),  which 
the  reporting  period, 

However,  in  addition  to  those  seven  decisions 
handed  down  during  the  2010-2011  reporting  period, 
the  Court  held  hearings  in  March  2011  in  the  case 
concerning  Application  of 
the  Interim  Accord  of 
13 September  1995  (the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia  v.  Greece).  This  case  has  completed  its 
written  and  oral  proceedings  and 
is  now  under 
deliberation  by  the  Court.  I  should  also  mention  that, 
outside  of 
the  Court  also 
completed  and  held  hearings  in  the  case  concerning 
Jurisdictional  Immunities  of  the  State  (Germany  v. 
Italy;  Greece 
is  now  under 
deliberation  by  the  Court  with  a  view  to  its  final 
decision. In addition, the Court is currently considering 
the  request  for  an  advisory  opinion  made  by  the 
International  Fund 
for  Agricultural  Development 
(IFAD)  in  respect  of  Judgment  No.  2867  of  the 
Administrative  Tribunal  of  the  International  Labour 
Organization.  Those  three  cases  are  now  being  dealt 
with by the Court on a parallel basis.  

As can be seen, given the remarkable increase in 
the  number  of  cases  on  its  docket,  the  Court  is  now 
dealing with more than a few cases on a parallel basis, 
thereby  making  its  best  endeavour  to  eliminate  a 
backlog of judicial work. Our current docket stands at 
15  cases,  most  of  which  are  still  in  the  hands  of  the 
parties, who are presenting their written proceedings in 
advance of the oral hearings.  

The  two  most  recent  cases  filed  during  the 
reporting  period  in  are  the  case  concerning  Certain 
Activities carried out by Nicaragua in the Border Area 
(Costa Rica v. Nicaragua) and the case concerning the 
Request for Interpretation of the Judgment of 15 June 
1962  in  the  case  concerning  the  Temple  of  Preah 
(Cambodia  v. 
Vihear
Thailand).  I  know  that  the  Court  is  making  its  best 
efforts  to  respond  to  the  high  expectations  of  the 
international community for an expeditious handling of 
the cases referred to the International Court of Justice. 

This  marks  my  final  address  to  the Assembly  as 
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  It 
therefore  seems  an  appropriate  moment  to  reflect  on 
the  trust  that  the  international  community  of  States 
continues to place in the Court to handle a wide variety 
of legal disputes. States from all corners of the world, 
faithful 
law, 
continue to have recourse to the Court to find judicial 
settlements  of  their  disputes.  In  the  three  years  of  my 
presidency, the docket has  never contained fewer than 
(Cambodia  v.  Thailand) 
their  attachment 
international 
to 
to 
to 
8 

11-56448 
legal  and 


15  cases.  In  fact,  in  the  past  10  years  the  docket  has 
averaged  at least 15 cases, and sometimes as many  as 
28. 

As  is  apparent  from  the  overview  I  have  given 
today  of  the  Court’s  work  in  the  past  year,  the 
substantive  areas  on  which  it  is  asked  to  rule  are 
broader  in  scope  than  ever  before,  with  each  case 
presenting  distinct 
factual  elements. 
Furthermore, cases are frequently made up of different 
incidental  phases,  from  preliminary  objections 
to 
provisional  measures  to  requests  for  intervention  and 
requests  for  interpretation.  As  a  result,  the  Court  has 
been  consistently  handling  cases 
in  parallel  and 
shortening  the  time  between  the  closure  of  written 
proceedings and the opening of the oral proceedings. 

It is no exaggeration to say that all regions of the 
world have become closely intertwined. In this twenty-
first  century 
international  politics  are  undeniably 
interconnected.  A  truly  global  economy  has  emerged, 
and the natural environment and global climate change 
have  created  new  challenges.  In 
times  of 
unprecedented  interconnections  between  States  and 
peoples, it is my sincere belief that a firm reliance on 
international  law  must  underpin  any  and  all  future 
developments  on  the  global  stage.  The  International 
Court  of  Justice,  as  guardian  of  international  law,  is 
proud 
increasingly 
globalizing world. 

It is my hope that Member States will continue to 
rely on the International Court of Justice to assist them 
in the pacific settlement of their disputes and that more 
States  will  accept  the  Court’s  jurisdiction,  whether 
through a declaration under Article 36, paragraph 2, of 
the  Statute,  or 
the  many 
multilateral  treaties  that  now  contain  compromissory 
clauses  that  refer  to  the  Court  disputes  relating  to 
interpretation or application of those treaties. 

Let me conclude by offering my profound thanks 
not  only  for  the  opportunity  to  address  the Assembly 
today, but also for the trust Members have placed in the 
Court over the past three years. I wish the Assembly a 
most productive sixty-sixth session. 

International Court of Justice.  
Mr.  Kessel  (Canada):  On  behalf  of  Australia, 

New  Zealand  and  Canada,  I  would  like  to  thank  the 
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  Judge 
The  President:  I  thank  the  President  of  the 
through  signatures  of 
these 
to  play  a  vital  role 
in  our 
11-56448 

A/66/PV.43
the  past  year,  and 
Owada,  for  his  excellent  report  on  the  work  of  the 
Court  over 
to  express  our 
appreciation  to  him  and  to  the  Vice-President,  Judge 
Tomka,  for  their  leadership  of  the  Court.  Judge 
Owada’s  report  highlights  the  invaluable  role  that  the 
Court  plays  in  the  peaceful  resolution  of  disputes 
between  States.  Canada,  Australia  and  New  Zealand 
have  always  been,  and  will  continue  to  be,  strong 
supporters  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  as  the 
principal judicial organ of the United Nations. 

The past year was a busy one for the Court. As its 
annual  report  (A/66/4)  indicates,  14  contentious  cases 
and  one  advisory  proceeding  were  on  the  Court’s  List 
during  the  past  year. The  Court  deliberated  four  cases 
consecutively, and two new cases were initiated before 
it.  

The cases before the Court cover an impressively 
wide  range  of  issues,  from  environmental  concerns  to 
jurisdictional  immunities  of  the  State  to  violations  of 
human rights, and a wide range of the countries around 
the world. 

Despite  the  increasing  complexity  of  the  cases 
before it, the Court has managed to clear its backlog of 
cases.  Canada,  Australia  and  New  Zealand  are 
encouraged  by  the  Court’s  continued  commitment  to 
ensuring the efficiency of its working methods.  
The  regional  and  subject-matter  diversity  of  the 

contentious  cases  before  the  Court  illustrates  both  the 
Court’s  universality  and  the  ever-growing  confidence 
of the international community in its decisions. 

As  noted  in  the  report,  the  Court,  as  a  court  of 
justice  and  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United 
Nations,  occupies  a  special  position  in  promoting  the 
rule  of  law  through  its  judgments  and  advisory 
opinions.  Canada,  Australia  and  New  Zealand  look 
forward to the International Court of Justice continuing 
to  play  its  vital  role  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
international disputes and the promotion of the rule of 
law, as mandated by the Charter of the United Nations. 

Wider  acceptance  of  its  compulsory  jurisdiction 
enables  the  Court  to  fulfil  its  role  more  effectively. 
Accordingly,  we  continue  to  urge  Member  States  that 
have not done so to deposit with the Secretary-General 
a declaration  of acceptance of the Court’s compulsory 
jurisdiction. 
Mr. Ahamed (India): I would like to thank Judge 

Hisashi Owada, President of the International Court of 
9 

judicial 
institutions 
international 
A/66/PV.43 

Justice,  for  his  comprehensive  and  detailed  report 
covering  the  judicial  activities  of  the  Court  over  the 
past  year.  I  also 
thank  him  and  Vice-President 
Judge Tomka for their leadership of the Court over that 
period. 

India attaches the highest importance to the Court 
as  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations. 
The  peaceful  resolution  of  disputes  is  fundamental  to 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security. 
The  Court  has  fulfilled  that  task  admirably  since  its 
establishment  and  has  acquired  a  well-deserved 
reputation  as  an  impartial  institution  with  the  highest 
legal  standards,  in  accordance  with  its  mandate  under 
the Charter of the United Nations.  

The  Court  remains  the  only  judicial  body  with 
legitimacy  derived  from  the  Charter  and  possessing 
universal  character  with  general  jurisdiction,  while 
other 
have 
competence and jurisdiction in specific areas only. The 
Statute of the Court is an integral part of the Charter of 
the United Nations, a unique status enjoyed only by the 
International Court of Justice. 
One  of  the  primary  goals  of  the  United  Nations, 

as stated in the Preamble to the Charter, is to establish 
conditions  under  which  justice  and  respect  for  the 
obligations of international law can be maintained. The 
International Court of Justice, as the only international 
Court  with  general  jurisdiction  in  international  law,  is 
uniquely placed to fulfil that role.  

(A/66/4)  clearly 
the  Court 
illustrates  the  confidence  that  States  have  in  it,  as 
shown  by  the  number  and  scope  of  cases  entrusted  to 
it.  It  also  shows  the  Court’s  growing  specialization  in 
complex  aspects  of  public 
law  and 
demonstrates  the  Court’s  universality  and  the  great 
importance that Member States attach to it.  

I am especially glad to see that the Court’s docket 
of  pending  cases  has  grown  consistently  in  recent 
years.  It  now  stands  at  17,  involving  more  than 
30 different  States,  as  well  as  one  request  for  an 
advisory  opinion,  as  Judge  Owada  mentioned.  The 
variety  in  the  subject  matter  of  recent  cases,  from 
territorial  and  maritime  disputes  to  the  obligation  to 
prosecute  or 
the 
significant  role  the  Court  plays  in  solving  disputes 
between States and providing its opinion on important 
questions of international law. 
also  demonstrates 
international 
report  of 
extradite, 
The 
the 
the 
fulfil 

The  judgments  delivered  by  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  have  played  an  important  role  in  the 
interpretation and clarification of rules of international 
law,  as  well  as  in  the  progressive  development  and 
codification  of  that  law.  In  the  performance  of  its 
judicial  functions,  the  Court  has  remained  highly 
sensitive  in  respecting  States’  political  realities  and 
sentiments,  while  acting  within  the  provisions  of  the 
Charter, 
its  own  Statute  and  other  applicable 
international  law.  It  has  contributed  significantly  to 
settling  legal  disputes  between  sovereign  States,  thus 
promoting the rule of law in international relations. 

Since  its  inception,  the  Court  has  dealt  with  a 
variety  of  complex  legal  issues.  It  has  pronounced 
judgment  in  areas  covering  territorial  and  maritime 
delimitation,  diplomatic  protection,  environmental 
concerns,  racial  discrimination,  violations  of  human 
rights,  and 
interpretation  and  application  of 
international  treaties  and  conventions.  The  Court’s 
second  function,  of  providing  advisory  opinions  on 
legal  questions  referred  to  it  by  the  organs  of  the 
United Nations and its specialized agencies, continues 
to 
important 
role  of  clarifying  key 
international legal issues. 
It  is  commendable  that  the  Court  has  taken 

significant  steps 
its 
efficiency  in  coping  with  the  steady  increase  in  its 
workload, 
its 
procedures and working methods, updating its Practice 
Directions for States appearing before it, and setting a 
particularly  demanding  schedule  of  hearings  and 
deliberations so that it can consider several cases at the 
same  time. As  a  result,  we  are  happy  to  note  that  the 
Court  has  successfully  cleared  its  backlog  of  cases, 
with the effect of further strengthening the confidence 
of States in its competency and efficiency. 

In  conclusion,  I  wish  to  reiterate  the  great 
importance  that  the  international  community  attaches 
to the work of the International Court of Justice and to 
draw  the  Assembly’s  attention  to  the  importance  of 
strengthening 
the 
provision of additional staff as the Court has requested. 
India  reaffirms  its  strong  support  for  the  International 
Court of Justice. 

Mr.  Abdelaziz  (Egypt):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like  to  express  Egypt’s  appreciation  to  Judge  Hisashi 
Owada, President of the International Court of Justice, 
for his comprehensive presentation of the report of the 
in  recent  years 
including  by 
re-examining 
functioning, 
to  enhance 
inter  alia, 
including, 
its 
10 

11-56448 
important 
to  contribute 
to 
the  United  Nations, 


Court  on  its  activities  over  the  past  year  (A/66/4).  I 
also  wish  to  reaffirm  Egypt’s  full  support  for  the 
Court’s key role in ensuring the implementation of the 
provisions  of  international  law,  adjudicating  disputes 
between  States  and  providing  advisory  opinions  to 
States and international organizations to guide them on 
how best to carry out their roles and functions. 
Since  its  establishment  as  the  principal  judicial 

the  Court  has 
organ  of 
strengthened 
legal  principles  and  rules 
through  its  advisory  opinions  on  the  Legality  of  the 
threat or use of nuclear weapons (A/51/218, annex), on 
the  Legal  consequences  of  the  Construction  of  a  Wall 
in  the  Occupied  Palestinian  Territory  (A/ES-10/273), 
on  the  Accordance  with  international  law  of  the 
unilateral  declaration  of  independence  in  respect  of 
Kosovo  (see  A/64/881)  and  many  other  decisions  on 
territorial  and  maritime  border  disputes,  which  have 
and  will  continue 
the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  around  the  world,  preventing 
them from escalating into armed conflicts.  

Egypt  also  recognizes  the  important  contribution 
of the Court’s decisions and orders delivered during the 
past year, inter alia, the order delivered in March 2011 
on  the  provisional  measures  in  the  case  concerning 
Certain  Activities  carried  out  by  Nicaragua  in  the 
Border Area (Costa Rica v. Nicaragua) and its decision 
in  July  2011  on  the  provisional  measures  in  the  case 
concerning Request for Interpretation of the Judgment 
of 15 June 1962 in the case concerning the Temple of 
Preah  Vihear  (Cambodia  v.  Thailand)  (Cambodia  v.
Thailand).  The  Court’s  efforts  in  this  field  also 
contribute  to  and  supplement  the  theme  proposed  by 
the  President  of  the  General Assembly  for  the  current 
session, which reaffirms the importance of the peaceful 
settlement of disputes and the role mediation can play 
in that regard.  

to 
encourage  States  and  United  Nations  organs  and 
specialized agencies to request advisory opinions of the 
Court  on  important  legal  questions  arising  within  the 
scope  of 
their  activities,  because  such  opinions 
constitute development and codification of the rules of 
international law. They also assist in consolidating the 
principles  of  justice  and  equality  at  the  international 
level, because of the high moral and legal values they 
embody,  and 
thus  promote 
the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security. 
emphasizes 
Egypt 
therefore 
the  need 
11-56448 

A/66/PV.43

Furthermore, Egypt expresses its appreciation for 
the pioneering role played by the Court in fostering the 
rule of law at the international level and in promoting a 
democratic and equitable international order. We stress 
the  need  to  draw  on  the  experiences  of  the  Court  in 
consolidating  established  legal  rules  in  many  spheres. 
Among  them  are  the  criteria  and  procedures  for 
accepting new Members into the United Nations, which 
is relevant to the current discussions on the application 
by Palestine; the responsibility of States to protect their 
citizens  in  accordance  with  international  law;  and  the 
distinction  between  legitimate  armed  struggle,  in  the 
framework  of  the  right  to  self-determination,  and 
terrorism. 

Egypt believes that it is important to provide the 
Court  with  the  chance  to  consider  the  legality  of  the 
encroachment  by  certain  principal  organs  of 
the 
Organization  on  the  competence  of  other  principal 
organs,  which  are  more  representative  and  democratic 
in  nature,  contrary  to  the  delicate  balance  established 
in  the  Charter.  In  the  same  vein,  it  is  necessary  to 
monitor  and  assess  the  implementation  of  the  Court’s 
judgments, decisions and advisory opinions to enhance 
international recognition of the moral and legal values 
of its advisory opinions. Egypt reiterates its proposal to 
establish  a  mechanism  within  the  United  Nations  for 
that purpose; first, to ensure that, as required under the 
Charter,  States  respect  the  advisory  opinions  and 
judgments issued by the Court at the request of one or 
the other of the principal organs; secondly, to monitor 
the  damages  caused  by  failure  to  implement  opinions 
and  judgments;  and  thirdly,  to  adopt  modalities  for 
compensating affected States, similar to the one formed 
to assess the damages caused by the construction of the 
separation wall in Palestine — which so far still faces 
major obstacles. 

In  that  regard,  it  is  also  important  to  act  on  the 
decision of the League of Arab States in October 2011 
to  present  to  the  General Assembly  a  draft  resolution 
requesting  an  advisory  opinion  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  on  the  legal  status  of  the  Palestinian 
and  Arab  prisoners  and  detainees  in  the  prisons  of 
Israel, the occupying Power, under the relevant rules of 
international  law,  and  to  reassert  their  status  as 
prisoners of war and their legitimate right to freedom. 

Egypt also welcomes the steps taken by the Court 
to increase its effectiveness in dealing with the steady 
increase  in  cases  before  it  and  encourages  the  Court’s 
continued  examination  of  its  procedures  and  working 
11 
to 
to 

fulfil 
team  and 
its  existing  security 
level  as  a  means 
the  ongoing  work  on 
A/66/PV.43 

methods.  Egypt  supports 
the  Court’s  request  for 
additional posts financed by the regular budget in order 
to  strengthen 
its 
Department  of  Legal  Matters  and  Publications 
Division. Egypt will work with other States in the Fifth 
Committee  to  respond  positively  to  those  demands, 
especially  since  they  come  at  a  time  of  increasing 
international  efforts  to  utilize  good  governance  at  the 
international 
the 
commitments of the Court. 

In  this  regard,  Egypt  welcomes  the  reference  in 
the  Court’s  report 
the 
technological renovation of the Peace Palace halls and 
the replacement and modernization of the audio-visual 
equipment in its historic courtroom and nearby rooms, 
so as to enable the Court to perform its tasks in a way 
befitting its international standing. 

In conclusion, Egypt expresses its appreciation to 
all  the  judges  of  the  Court,  the  Registrar  and  staff  for 
their  efforts  in  the  year  covered  by  the  report  and 
wishes them success in performing the lofty role of the 
Court in the future. 
Mr.  Chuquihuara  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Before  making  my  statement,  I  wish  to  join  in  the 
expressions  of  condolence  on 
loss  of 
Mr. Antonio  Cassese,  a  great  jurist,  who  contributed 
greatly to the body of international law. We will always 
regret his loss.  

I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  Judge  Hisashi  Owada, 
for  being  with  us  this  morning  and  for  his  very 
interesting  introduction  of  the  report  on  the  intense 
work of the Court in the past year (A/66/4).  

The  purpose  of  the  United  Nations  is  to  ensure 
that States resolve their disputes by peaceful means, in 
accordance  with 
justice  and 
international  law.  To  that  end,  the  United  Nations 
Charter  itself  recognizes  the  peaceful  resolution  of 
disputes  as  a  general  principle,  whereby  States  should 
refrain  from  the  use  or  threat  of  use  of  force. 
Underscoring the essential role that the United Nations 
Charter  ascribes  to  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security  and  to  fostering  relations  of 
friendship and cooperation, Member States declared in 
resolution 2625 (XXV) that they would refrain, in their 
international  relations,  from  the  threat  or  use  of  force 
against 
political 
the  principles  of 
the  great 
territorial 
integrity 
the 
or 
issues, 
including 
issues  of 
environmental 
independence  of  any  State,  or  in  any  other  manner 
contrary to the principles of the United Nations. 

Likewise, they believed that it is essential, to that 
end, for all States to resolve their international disputes 
through  peaceful  means,  in  keeping  with  the  Charter. 
In  that  regard,  the  International  Court  of  Justice  was 
established as the principle judicial organ of the United 
Nations  to  institute  a  universal  system  that  would 
enable  States  to  resolve  their  disputes  by  peaceful 
means.  Article  94  of  the  Charter  provides  for  the 
Court’s decisions to be complied with in such a way as 
to put an end to legal disputes. For that reason, Peru, as 
a  country  that  respects  international  law,  reiterates  its 
commitment  to  comply  with  the  obligations  that  arise 
from the statutes of the Court and urges all other States 
to comply with the decisions of the Court.  
Despite  the  sensitivity  of  the  topics  taken  up  by 

territorial  and 
the  Court  — 
maritime  boundaries, 
the 
interpretation  of  treaties  and  the  immunities  regime, 
just  to  mention  a  few  —  States  have  opted  freely,  in 
exercise of their sovereignty, to go before the Court so 
that  it  would  be  the  Court  that  would  resolve  their 
disputes. That is the result of the judicial quality of its 
rulings, as well as of the independence and impartiality 
of its judges, which has led to universal recognition of 
the Court’s high degree of legitimacy. 

the 
International  Court  of  Justice  is  reflected  in  the 
American  Treaty  on  Pacific  Settlement  of  1948,  also 
known as the Bogotá Pact, by which the States parties 
agreed  always  to  refer  procedures  to  the  Court  for 
peaceful  resolution.  Likewise,  in  keeping  with Article 
36, paragraph 2, of the Statute of the Court, Peru gave 
unconditional 
in 
contentious matters.  

Moreover, through the Manila Declaration on the 
Peaceful  Resolution  of  International  Disputes,  which 
was adopted by consensus through resolution 37/10 in 
1982,  it  was  reiterated  that  legal  disputes  should, 
generally  speaking,  be  brought  by  parties  to  the 
International Court of Justice, and that bringing a case 
before the Court should not be viewed as an unfriendly 
act between States. 

As a result of that recognition, Peru believes that 
it  is  of  the  greatest  importance  for  the  Court’s 
jurisdiction  be  universally  accepted  by  all  States.  As 
indicated  in  its  report,  currently  only  66  States  have 
Peru’s  commitment 
the  work  of 
jurisdiction 
recognition 
its 
to 
to 
12 

11-56448 
the  past  several  years,  with 


issued  statements  indicating  that  they  recognize  the 
compulsory jurisdiction of the Court, although in many 
cases  those  statements  were  made  with  reservations. 
Peru therefore urgently calls on all States that have not 
yet done so to accept the compulsory jurisdiction of the 
Court in contentious matters.  

We reaffirm our full endorsement and support of 
the  work  of  the  Court  in  both  its  judicial  and  its 
advisory capacities. At the same time, we wish to stress 
the prominent work of its judges, with respect both to 
the high level of their legal skills and to their efficient 
management,  which  have  made  it  possible  for  the 
Court  to  adopt  measures  aimed  at  making  its  work 
more effective.  

We would also like to recognize that the support 
of  the  Secretariat  has  been  critical  in  meeting  those 
objectives.  The  Court  has  had  an  agenda  packed  with 
litigation  over 
the 
presentation  of  two  new  cases.  Those  new  tasks  must 
be added to the pending cases and an advisory opinion 
procedure,  which  means  that  in  the  current  session  a 
total  of  14  cases  have  been  heard,  along  with  one 
advisory procedure. 

We  should  also  mention  the  Court’s  important 
role in communication through its official publications 
and  its  electronic  portal,  all  of  which  provide  an 
invaluable tool, as does the dialogue of the Court with 
other 
the  International  Law 
Commission, with various regional and national courts 
and with academic institutions, all of which enables an 
exchange of views that benefits and enriches the legal 
community. 

is  clear,  contribute 
All  of 
substantively to the promotion of the rule of law at the 
international  and  national  levels.  States  should  ensure 
that  the  Court  has  sufficient  resources  available  to 
carry  out  the  task  assigned  to  it.  In  that  regard,  we 
believe 
requirements  characterized  as 
indispensable  in  the  report  with  regard  to  the  Court’s 
needs in the area of human resources (A/66/333), such 
as security, legal assistance and publications, are fully 
reasonable  and  should  be  addressed  as  quickly  as 
possible. 

publically 
acknowledge  those  who  have  contributed  to  the  Trust 
Fund  to  Assist  States  in  the  Settlement  of  Disputes 
through  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  We  would 
Finally,  Peru  would 
institutions,  such  as 
those  efforts, 
that 
the 
it 
like 
to 
A/66/PV.43
our 
Historically, 
two-century-old 
like to join the Secretary-General’s appeal to all States 
and relevant entities to collaborate with the Fund.  
Ms. Flores (Honduras): We thank the president of 

the International Court of Justice, Mr. Hisashi Owada, 
for  the  presentation  of  the  Court’s  most  recent  report 
(A/66/4).  We  also  express  our  gratitude  to  the  other 
distinguished members of the Court. 

Honduras,  as  a  peace-loving  and  law-abiding 
country,  has  relied  on  the  Court’s  rulings  on  several 
occasions  to  settle  mayor  territorial  disputes  with 
neighbouring  nations.  Our  Constitution  clearly  states 
that  Honduras  shall  adhere  to  the  principles  and 
law  based  on  human 
practices  of 
international 
solidarity,  our  people’s 
self  determination, 
the 
non-intervention  of  others  in  our  internal  affairs  and 
the consolidation of peace and universal democracy. 

boundary 
disputes  and  other  matters  pertaining  to  our  territorial 
and  maritime  rights,  which  we  have  not  been  able  to 
resolve directly with other parties by means of peaceful 
negotiations,  mediation  or  arbitration,  have  been 
submitted  to  the  consideration  of  the  International 
Court. 
My country, which has overcome difficult periods 

of  unrest,  political  and  social  upheaval  and 
the 
polarization of conflict in the Central American region, 
has  always  respected  the  Court’s  decisions.  Where 
there has been any room  for further interpretation, we 
have  voluntarily  deferred  to  the  better  judgement  and 
advice  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  We  are 
therefore thankful to the Court for the many times we 
have  settled  our  differences  with  other  States  by 
submitting to its jurisdiction. 

The  most  recent  cases  dealt  with  our  sovereign 
rights  in  the  Fonseca  Gulf  and  secure  passage  for  our 
country  to  the  Pacific  Ocean  and,  most  recently,  with 
maritime delimitation in the Caribbean as pertaining to 
the  Caribbean  Sea  Maritime  Limits  Treaty,  which  we 
signed with Colombia in 1999. 
Following  our  last  petition  to  the  International 

Court, 
the  application  for 
permission  to  intervene  in  the  proceeding,  either  as  a 
party  or  as  non-party,  filed  by  the  Republic  of 
Honduras under Article 62 of the Statute of the Court, 
could  not  be  granted,  since  Honduras  could  not  claim 
an  interest  of  a  legal  nature  that  might  be  affected  in 
any of the maritime areas identified in its application. 
the  Court  found 
that 
11-56448 

13 

Having  relied  on  several  occasions  on 
A/66/PV.43 


the 
wisdom  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  for 
settling serious and heartfelt disputes, we can certainly 
attest  here  today  as  to  the  Court’s  contribution  to 
peaceful coexistence and the valuable role it continues 
to play in regional and world peace. 

The  willingness  of  Member  States  to  join  in 
efforts  to  combat  impunity  and  strengthen  universal 
justice is essential to the United Nations. We can fairly 
say  that  it  enables  them  to  work  for  accountability. 
Those  efforts  undoubtedly  help  to  secure  the  road  to 
reconciliation  and  provide  victims  with  redress.  The 
role  the  Court  will  play  in  this  new  century,  with  a 
jurisdiction  based  on  consent,  will  depend  on  its 
activity  and  on  its  acceptance  in  the  international 
community as an effective tribunal that can truly serve 
as a world court. 

Despite  all  the  achievements  in  our  region  with 
respect  to  securing  and  strengthening  the  rule  of  law, 
we live in an everyday reality where criminal activities 
and  corruption  threaten  the  core  of  governance  and 
hinder,  or  even  paralyse,  States’  national 
justice 
systems.  Violence  and  crime  are  eating  through  the 
valued  weave  of  our  societies  from  deep  within.  We 
have  to  find  a  way  to  prevail  in  our  common  goals 
while  making  our  systems  work.  We  need  to  provide 
security  while  guaranteeing  rights  to  our  citizens,  and 
we have to provide relief to the needy and protection to 
the innocent. 
require  a  coordinated,  strong 

institutional  and 
judicial  framework. 
Close  to  home,  we  can  praise  the  efforts  of  the 
International  Commission 
in 
Guatemala  (CICIG),  established  under  an  agreement 
with  the  United  Nations,  in  contributing  to  that 
accountability process. So far, as we know, CICIG has 
assisted  the  Guatemalan  State  to  investigate  and 
dismantle violent criminal organizations believed to be 
responsible for widespread crime and  paralysis in that 
country’s justice system. 

In  that  same  vein,  I  would  like  to  stress  the 
importance  of  several  issues  in  the  Court’s  report  that 
constitute  good  ideas  that  have  been  dormant  in  our 
agenda,  including  the  right  to  protect  or  the  issue  of 
human  security.  Recently,  the  Assembly  decided  to 
continue to debate the human security issue in order to 
address  the  lack  of  a  definition  of  the  concept.  The 
concept  has  serious  legal  implications  for  Member 
international 
Impunity 
therefore 
against 
We 
remains 
the  hindrances  of  social 
States.  It  would  be  of  paramount  importance  if  the 
Court  would,  for  illustrative  purposes,  pronounced 
itself  on  the  rights  and  responsibilities  of  States  with 
relation to human security. 
It is indeed difficult to see the splendors of justice 

shadowed  by 
inequity, 
disparity  and  unrest.  There  will  be  no  rest  as  long  as 
one  part  of  the  population  enjoys  the  benefits  of  the 
system  and  the  opportunity  to  participate,  while  the 
vast  majority 
isolated,  powerless  and 
marginalized from the blessings of development. 

The  sense  of  powerlessness  resulting  from  the 
inability  to  achieve  a  decent  standard  of  living  — 
rightly  deserved  by  the  immense,  motley  multitudes 
who,  in  various  latitudes  of  the  Earth  subsist  in  the 
most  precarious  economic  and  social  conditions  —  is 
undeniably  a 
latent  source  of  conflict.  Only  by 
recognizing and respecting the rights of each other will 
the world have a chance at peace. 

Mr.  Ndiaye  (Senegal)  (spoke  in  French): Allow 
me  to  begin  my  statement  by  thanking  Mr.  Hisashi 
Owada, President of the International Court of Justice, 
for  his  comprehensive  and  detailed  report  on  the 
activities of that organ from 1 August 2010 to 31 July 
2011. I also thank the staff of the Court.  

the  opportunity 
provided by this annual meeting to review the report of 
the International Court of Justice (A/66/4) to highlight 
the  Court’s  productivity  in  moving  forward  the  ideals 
of peace and justice upon which the Organization was 
founded.  A  better  time  could  hardly  be  imagined  to 
commend 
in 
establishing  a  more 
just  and  peaceful  world  by 
promoting respect for the rule of law and the peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes. 
that  connection,  my 
delegation would like to urge the International Court of 
Justice,  as  the  only  international  court  of  universal 
character, 
to  strengthen 
international  justice,  develop  international  law  and 
maintain international peace and security. 

The growing role of the Court for States is clearly 
manifested  in  the  increased  number  of  applications 
presented  to  the  Court.  Such  a  demonstration  of 
confidence also reflects the growing acceptance of the 
primacy  of  law  as  well  as  the  interest  of  countries  in 
the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes.  By  promoting  the 
legal settlement of disputes, the Court has contributed 
to  peaceful  relations  among  States,  thereby  greatly 
My  country,  Senegal, 
to  continue 
its  efforts 
the  Court 
invaluable 
takes 
the 
role  of 
In 
14 

11-56448 


contributing  to  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and security.  

Similarly, in basing its actions on the rule of law, 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  contributes  at  the 
same  time  to  the  interpretation  and  development  of 
international  law  in  accordance  with  respect  for  the 
rule  of  law  at  the  international  level.  In  addition,  the 
Court’s  orders  and  decisions  serve  as 
juridical 
precedent in many situations, enriching the codification 
and consolidation of international law. 
For all of those reasons, my delegation reiterates 

its full support to the International Court of Justice and 
its appreciation for its praiseworthy efforts to enhance 
its  effectiveness.  We  urge  that  the  Court  be  provided 
with  the  necessary  means  to  appropriately  accomplish 
its noble mission.  

In  conclusion,  on  the  occasion  of  the  review  of 
the  report  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  my 
delegation  would  recall  that  today  the  positive  effects 
of  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  are  obvious. 
From  that  perspective,  the  work  of  the  Court  clearly 
contributes to achieving the purposes of the Charter of 
the United Nations, in particular those pertaining to the 
peaceful settlement of disputes in conformity with the 
principles of justice and international law. 

Given  its  deep  commitment  to  the  promotion  of 
justice and the rule of law and the peaceful settlement 
of  disputes,  Senegal  reiterates  its  confidence  in  the 
Court,  the  clearest  demonstration  of  which  was  my 
country’s  acceptance  of 
the  Court’s  compulsory 
jurisdiction in line with Article 36 of its Statute. 
Mr.  Gevorgyan  (Russian  Federation)  (spoke  in 

Russian):  The  Russian  Federation  would 
to 
express,  through  the  presidency  of  the  Assembly,  its 
gratitude  to  Mr.  Hisashi  Owada,  President  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  for  his  presentation  of 
the  Court’s 
its  staunch 
commitment to the peaceful settlement of disputes, the 
always 
Russian  Federation  has 
attached  great 
importance to the Court’s activities.  

We  are  pleased  to  note  the  dynamic  work  of  the 
primary  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
increasing  geographic  and  thematic  diversity  of  the 
Court’s  cases,  as  it  has  rightly  noted  in  its  report, 
speaks to the unique universal nature of that organ.  
Over the past year, once again, the Court upheld 

the  highest  standards  of  judicial  practice,  objectivity 
(A/66/4).  Given 
report 
like 
A/66/PV.43
confirmed 
the 
In 
the  Court 
It  enhanced 
including  negotiation. 
the  peacekeeping  process. 
and political independence. My country is pleased with 
the judgment rendered on 1 April 2011, concerning the 
Application  of  the  International  Convention  on  the 
Elimination  of  All  Forms  of  Racial  Discrimination 
(Georgia  v.  Russian  Federation).  We  believe  that  the 
judgment  goes  far  beyond  the  framework  of  bilateral 
inter-State  relations.  Its  adoption  has  made  a  notable 
contribution to enhancing not only the integral system 
of  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  but  also  the 
its 
foundation  of 
judgment, 
growing 
significance of key tools of the peaceful  settlement of 
disputes, 
the 
authority of relevant treaty bodies and  United Nations 
bodies  and  prevented  an  attempt  to  abuse  established 
legal  procedures  and  circumvent  the  provisions  of 
international treaties. 

Secondly,  the  Court  supported  a  State  that  was 
actively  participating  in  peacekeeping.  The  suit  was 
filed against a State that was not party to a dispute but 
that was in good faith fulfilling its role as peacekeeper 
and mediator in the negotiations. At the same time, the 
application  was  made  to  the  Court  after  an  armed 
attack  was  carried  out  against 
those  very  same 
peacekeepers and civilians in a conflict region.  

If the Court had ruled otherwise, any activities of 
peacekeepers  could  risk  violating  the  International 
Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial 
Discrimination.  In  our  view,  thanks  to  the  Court’s 
success  in  rendering  an  impartial  and  de-politicized 
judgment,  there  has  been  an  obvious  and  consistent 
increase over the past years in confidence in the Court, 
that  has  been  reflected  in  the  increasing  number  of 
States  that  have  accepted  the  Court’s  jurisdiction,  as 
well as in the growing scope of the international legal 
issues that have been put before the Court. 

The  Russian  Federation  would  like  to  note 
another  facet  of  the  Court’s  activities.  Within  the 
United  Nations,  active  discussions  are  under  way  on 
the issue of the rule of law. We have seen the process 
of transforming the rule of law into a practical tool for 
reconstruction  and  at  times,  even  survival,  in  conflict 
and  post-conflict  societies.  We  feel  that  the  Court  is 
itself  a  key  mechanism  for  ensuring  the  rule  of  law 
internationally. As duly noted by the Court in its report, 
its activities are aimed at bolstering the rule of law. It 
carries  out  such  activities  through  the  clarification  of 
international  law  and  the  just  settlement  of  the  most 
11-56448 

15 

the 
are 
some 
cases 
to  carry 
individuals 
hearings,  where 
international  disputes,  working  as  an 
A/66/PV.43 

delicate  of 
independent judiciary for other judicial bodies. 

We closely follow the legal activities of the Court 
and, at the same time, try to accord due attention to the 
everyday issues of the Court. Despite its busy calendar 
of 
heard 
simultaneously,  the  Court  has  nevertheless  succeeded 
in maintaining the high judicial quality of its decisions. 
We believe that the Court’s request for the provision of 
human  resources  and  additional  funding  to  adapt  its 
judicial  processes  and  to  maintain  its  unique  status 
merit  the  closest  attention.  For  its  part,  the  Russian 
Federation stands ready to spare no efforts in that area. 

Elections to the Court are set for the near future. 
We will select five of the 15 judges of the International 
Court  of  Justice.  We  hope  that  from  the  number  of 
highly  qualified  candidates,  we  will  choose  the  most 
outstanding 
torch  of 
international  justice  through  the  halls  of  the  Peace 
Palace in The Hague.  
Mr.  Zellweger  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 

My delegation would first like to thank the President of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  for  the  presentation 
of his very comprehensive report (A/66/4).  
Switzerland  is  firmly  committed  to  a  stable  and 

just 
international  order, 
international 
jurisdictions,  and  the  International  Court  of  Justice  in 
particular,  make  a  major  contribution.  Switzerland 
believes that the International Court of Justice plays an 
irreplaceable  role.  It  has  always  recognized 
the 
competence  of  the  Court,  and  calls  on  all  other  States 
to  do  the  same. All  States  should  bring  their  disputes 
before the Court in order to settle them peacefully. The 
increasing number of legal matters and  issues brought 
before the Court demonstrates the confidence placed in 
it by the international community. 

Moreover, my delegation welcomes the measures 
taken by the  Court to increase its effectiveness  and to 
deal with its increasing workload. It supports the Court 
in its undertakings to ensure its smooth functioning. 

The  International  Court  of  Justice  devotes  some 
paragraphs in its report to the case of Jurisdiction and 
Enforcement  of  Judgments  in  Civil  and  Commercial 
Matters  (Belgium  v.  Switzerland).  While  welcoming 
the swift settlement of this case, my delegation would 
like  to  make  the  following  clarification.  In  its  report, 
the  Court  quotes  word  for  word  from  the  letter  in 
to  which 
which Belgium announced its withdrawal. In the letter, 
Belgium  refers  to,  and  paraphrases,  paragraph  85  of 
Switzerland’s preliminary objections. However, it goes 
without saying that only the original text of paragraph 
85 of the preliminary objections conveys Switzerland’s 
unwavering position. 

I  am  convinced  that,  through  its  activities,  the 
International Court of Justice will continue its specific 
efforts towards a more peaceful world. 
Mr.  Yamazaki  (Japan):  It  is  my  great  pleasure 

and honour, on behalf of the Government of Japan, to 
address the General Assembly under the presidency of 
His Excellency Ambassador Al-Nasser. I would like to 
express  my  gratitude  to  President  Hisashi  Owada  for 
his in-depth report summarizing the current situation of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  (A/66/4). As  a  State 
resolutely devoted to peace and firmly dedicated to the 
promotion  of  the  rule  of  law  and  respect  for  the 
principle  of  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes,  Japan 
appreciates the strenuous efforts and work of the Court, 
presided  over  by  Judge  Owada,  to  deliver  decisions 
and opinions based on exhaustive deliberations. 
We are especially impressed by the wide regional 

range  of  Member  States 
resolve 
international  legal  disputes  by  referring  cases  to  the 
Court. This fact illustrates the universality of the Court 
and the great importance that Member States attach to 
it.  The  variety  in  the  subject  matter  of  recent  cases, 
from 
the 
international 
interpretation 
conventions  and 
the 
significant  role  played  by 
in  solving 
international  disputes  between  States  and  in  providing 
its  opinions  on  important  questions  in  international 
law. While dealing with the variety and complexity of 
such  cases,  the  Court  has  taken  effective  measures  to 
conduct 
level.  The 
Government  of  Japan  commends  the  Court  for  its 
continuous  efforts  to  re-examine  its  procedures  and 
working methods. 

In  the  current  international  environment,  where 
we  continue  to  witness  armed  conflicts  and  acts  of 
terrorism,  the  firm  establishment  of  law  and  order  is 
indispensable. There has been increasing recognition in 
the  necessity  of 
the 
establishing 
the  primacy  of 
international law, as well as the importance of settling 
disputes through peaceful means.  
territorial  and  maritime  delimitation 
its  activity  at  a  sustainable 
international  community  of 
treaties,  also  demonstrates 
and  maintaining 
application 
the  Court 
seeking 
and 
to 
to 
of 
16 

11-56448 
to 
the 
to 
the 
jurisdiction 
in  order 
to 
facilitate 
attention 
lofty  cause  and  work  of 
to  draw 
importance 



In that regard, the role of the International Court 
of Justice as the principal judicial organ of the United 
Nations  is  paramount  and  cannot  be  overstated.  We 
believe  that  the  Court  must  bring  to  bear  not  only  a 
profound  knowledge  of  international  law  but  also  the 
farsighted  view  of  the  international  community,  given 
that the world is now experiencing rapid change. Japan 
respects  the  Court’s  ability  to  meet  that  requirement 
and continues to fully support its work.  

Since  1958,  two  years  after  becoming  a  State 
Member  of  the  United  Nations,  Japan  has  recognized 
the  compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  Court.  We  urge 
Member States that have not yet done so to accept the 
Court’s 
the 
establishment  of  the  rule  of  law  in  the  international 
community. 

In concluding my remarks, I wish to reiterate the 
great  importance  that  the  international  community 
the 
attaches 
International  Court  of  Justice  and 
the 
Assembly’s 
of 
strengthening  the  functioning  of  the  Court.  Japan,  for 
its  part,  will  continue  to  contribute  to  the  invaluable 
work  and  the  efficient  and  effective  operation  of  the 
Court. 
thanks 

President  Owada 
the 
comprehensive  report  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  covering  its  activities  over  the  past  year 
(A/66/4).  We  also  thank  President  Owada  and  Vice-
President Tomka for their able leadership of the Court 
in that period. It is a testament to their vigorous efforts 
that  the  Court  has  been  able  to  discharge  its  duties  to 
the highest standards for another full year. 
Singapore  is  firmly  committed  to  a  stable  and 

peaceful  international  order  governed  by  the  rule  of 
law.  In  our  view,  the  international  rule  of  law  is 
indispensable  to  realizing  the  purposes  and  principles 
of  the  United  Nations,  including  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security,  and  the  preservation 
of friendly relations. In the exercise of  its contentious 
jurisdiction, 
in 
facilitating  the  Charter  obligation  to  settle  disputes 
peacefully.  In  the  exercise  of  its  advisory  jurisdiction, 
the  Court  provides  guidance  on  important  issues  of 
international law. 
the 

continued  regional  and  subject-matter  diversity  of  the 
Furthermore,  my  delegation  welcomes 
Mr.  Yee  (Singapore):  My  delegation 
the  Court  fulfils  a  key  function 
for  his  presentation  of 
A/66/PV.43
cases standing on the Court’s List as of the end of the 
reporting period. We also note that the legal issues on 
the  Court’s  List  are  not  only  diverse  but  complex. 
Those factors will ensure that the Court’s jurisprudence 
will continue to command immense influence and have 
a deep impact on the development of international law. 
In  that  regard,  there  have  been  several  jurisprudential 
developments  during  the  period  under  review  that  my 
delegation  has  followed  with  great  interest,  including 
those  relating to jurisdictional immunities of  the State 
and  the  rights  of  shareholders.  We  note  that  two  new 
cases  were  referred  to  the  Court  during  the  reporting 
period, and look forward to receiving the Court’s views 
on those cases and others pending on its List. 

Turning  next  to  the  administration  of  the  Court, 
my  delegation  commends  the  Court  for  successfully 
clearing its backlog of cases. We welcome the Court’s 
efforts  to  keep  its  procedures  and  working  methods 
under  continual  review,  so  as  to  ensure  that  its  users 
can be confident that proceedings before the Court will 
be  as  efficient  as  possible. We  are  also  encouraged  to 
read  that  work  continues  on  the  modernization  of  the 
Great  Hall  of  Justice,  including  the  introduction  of 
information technology resources on the judges’ bench. 
We look forward to their speedy completion. 

Singapore  notes  the  request  made  by  the  Court 
for  additional  security  posts  in  paragraph  27  of  its 
report.  My  delegation  continues  to  hold  the  view  that 
this request is not made lightly. Given the central role 
that  the  Court  plays,  and  the  range  of  issues  which  it 
has 
those  of  a  highly 
controversial  nature,  it  is  only  right  and  prudent  that 
we  renew  our  support  for  this  request.  Singapore  also 
notes  the  requests  for  an  additional  P-2  post  in 
paragraph 28, and for an additional post in the General 
Service  category  in  paragraph  29.  My  delegation 
believes  that  it  is  important  for  the  Court  to  be 
adequately  resourced  in  order  to  perform  its  work. As 
such, Singapore supports both these requests. 
In  conclusion,  Singapore  reaffirms  its  strong 

support for the work of the Court, which plays a vital 
role  in  the  institutional  dimension  of  the  international 
rule  of  law.  We  wish  the  Court  every  measure  of 
success  in  meeting  its  future  challenges  and  in  the 
discharge of its duties in the year ahead. 
Mr.  Benmehidi  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  French):  I 

would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the  International 
Court of Justice, Judge Hisashi Owada, for his detailed 
to  deal  with, 
including 
11-56448 

17 
it  an 
the 
of 

the 
issues  subjected 
integral  part  of 
the  diversity  of 
The  multiplication 
A/66/PV.43 

and exhaustive presentation on the undertakings of the 
Court  from  1  August  2010  to  31  July  2011.  I  should 
also  like  to  express  the  appreciation  of  my  delegation 
for  his  presidency  of  that  important  organ  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations. 

Algeria  underscores  the  particular  role  of  the 
judicial  settlement  of  disputes  as  one  of  the  pillars  of 
the peaceful settlement of disputes in the maintenance 
of peace and international security.  
As  one  of  the  principal  organs  of  the  Charter, 

the 
whose  Statute  makes 
Organization, 
International  Court  of  Justice 
occupies  a  unique  place  within  the  international  legal 
system. 
international 
jurisdictions,  in  particular  those  that  have  become 
specialized  over  the  past  several  decades,  has  in  no 
way detracted from the prestige of the Court.  

The  number  of  cases  on  the  Court’s  docket, 
including  two  new  ones  added  during  the  most  recent 
session, 
to 
litigation,  which  touch  on  many  areas  of  international 
law, as well as the fact that parties to disputes brought 
before the Court belong to every geographic region of 
the  world,  bear  witness  to  the  universal  nature  of  this 
institution.  
Algeria would like to emphasize the eminent role 

the  Court  plays 
implementation  and 
that 
strengthening  of  the  rule  of  law  at  the  international 
level, in particular with respect to its sustained efforts 
on behalf of the application, promotion and elucidation 
of international law, as well as in the dissemination of 
the Court’s activities through relevant programmes. 

In  that  spirit,  the  Court  deserves  a  pre-eminent 
place  in  all  high-level  debates  devoted  to  the  rule  of 
law  that  will  be  held  during  the  opening  of  the  sixty-
seventh session of the General Assembly in September 
2012. 

The  execution  of  the  Court’s  determinations  in 
establishing  the  primacy  of  international  law  and 
implementing the rule of law at the international level 
is of critical importance. Initiatives and ideas intended 
to  contribute  to  improved  implementation  of  the 
Court’s rulings deserves to be encouraged. 

It is vital for the International Court of Justice to 
receive the resources it needs to function effectively, to 
render its decisions with due speed and to rule between 
the plaintiffs who come before it. The complexity and 
in 
the 
that  become 
to  certain  cases 
multiplicity of the cases the Court hears, as well as the 
diversity  of  their  procedural  phases,  in  particular  with 
regard 
increasingly 
protracted, implies a requisite  adjustment with  respect 
to both human and material resources. The 14 matters 
currently  pending  before  the  Court,  several  of  which 
have been on the docket for a number of years, might 
find  swifter  resolution  if  the  additional  resources 
requested by the Court were made available. 

My delegation wishes to acknowledge the efforts 
of  the  Court  to  adapt  and  streamline  its  workload, 
which  continues  to  grow  in  volume  year  by  year,  by 
reworking  its  calendar,  its  procedures  and  its  work 
methods.  

It  remains  for  the  United  Nations,  and  for  its 
Member  States  in  particular,  to  explore  the  best  ways 
to  continue  to  provide  the  requisite  support  to  the 
Court. 
In conclusion, my delegation would like to stress 

its  firm  support  for  role  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  in  the  development  of  international  law.  In 
addition to ruling on disputes, the Court interprets and 
elucidates  the  rules  of  international  law,  especially 
through  its  important  practice  of  providing  advisory 
opinions,  whose  positive  influence  we  would  do  well 
to  emphasize.  Although  they  do  not  entail  obligatory 
consequences for States, advisory opinions nonetheless 
offer clarifying guidance, in particular for international 
organizations, chief among them the United Nations. 

Mr.  Osorio  (Colombia)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 
would like to begin by thanking Judge Hisashi Owada, 
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  for  his 
very  complete  and  detailed  report  on  the  activities  of 
the  Court  during  the  period  2010-2011  (A/66/4).  As 
this is the last time that Judge Owada will address the 
Assembly  in  his  capacity  as  President  of  the  highest 
world court, I should like to pay tribute to him for his 
stewardship of that organ over the past three years.  
For those delegations that participate in the work 

of  the  General Assembly,  it  is  very  useful  to  be  made 
familiar with the development of contentious cases and 
advisory  cases  before  the  Court  and  the  manner  in 
which  the  principal  judicial  organ  of  the  Organization 
is performing the task assigned to it by the Charter.  

We  note  that  during  the  year  covered  by  the 
report there was a constant flow of cases submitted to 
the Court, with three cases declared concluded and two 
18 

11-56448 


new  contentious  cases  put  before  the  Court.  Over  the 
decades,  States  from  different  regions  of  the  world 
have  gone  before  the  Court  to  request  its  ruling  on 
various controversies, in accordance with international 
law,  covering  a  wide  range  of  aspects  of  international 
life. 

It is also important to take into account that in the 
various cases brought before the Court a wide range of 
other  issues  also  arose,  all  of  which  required  intense 
labour on the part of the members of the Court and its 
secretariat. In clear contrast with that, we note that the 
Court  continues  to  receive  very  few  requests  for 
advisory opinions.  

We are pleased to note that the Court has worked 
with  exceptional  diligence  in  order  to  tackle  the 
considerable  challenges  presented  by  the  many  cases 
on  its  docket  and  ensure  adequate  and  sufficient 
consideration thereof.  
The Court has adapted its practice and procedures 

through the adoption and subsequent adjustment of the 
Practice  Directions,  which  have  been  very  useful  to 
litigating States. Likewise, the Court has implemented 
an intense agenda of hearings and deliberations, which 
now  makes  it  possible  to  consider  various  cases  with 
the requisite swiftness, including the various incidental 
proceedings  that  arise.  The  success  in  the  Court’s 
putting measures into place is tangible and reflected in 
the  fact  that  it  has  been  able  to  keep  delays  brought 
about  by  the  very  busy  docket  to  a  minimum.  States 
considering  the  possibility  of  going  before  the  Court 
can now be certain that the transition from the written 
phase  to  the  oral  phase  in  each  proceeding  will  take 
place in an expedited manner.  

The  delegation  of  Colombia  would  also  like  to 
highlight  the  very  worthwhile  contribution  that  the 
International Court of Justice can make with regard to 
addressing  another  issue  on  the  General  Assembly’s 
programme  of  work,  namely,  the  state  of  the  rule  of 
law in the international arena. As correctly reflected in 
the report, in this context the Court plays a special role 
within  the  United  Nations  institutional  architecture 
since, by definition, as it is a judicial organ, everything 
it does is geared towards promoting the rule of law. It 
can  therefore  be  said  that  all  its  actions  and  decisions 
could  potentially  contribute  to  the  promotion  and 
clarification  of  norms  in  international  law  that  it  is 
called upon to interpret and apply, including norms that 
regulate its practice and procedure.  
A/66/PV.43
the  periodic 
Mexico  welcomes 

For  that  reason,  we  would  like  to  join  those 
delegations that have indicated that the President of the 
Court  should  be  invited  to  participate  in  the  opening 
session  of  the  high-level  event  on  this  topic  that  will 
take place on 24 September 2012. That important event 
would  thereby  benefit  from  the  perspective  of  one  of 
the  principal  organs  of  the  Organization  entirely 
devoted, in the most efficient and laudable manner, to 
promoting  the  rule  of  law  at  the  level  of  international 
relations. 

Mrs.  Morgan  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
delegation  of  Mexico  would  like  to  express  its  deep 
appreciation  to  the  International  Court  of  Justice  for 
the  arduous  efforts  it  has  undertaken  this  year.  We 
would  also  like  to  thank  its  President,  Judge  Hisashi 
Owada,  for  his  presentation  of  the  Court’s  report 
(A/66/4).  

review  of 
proceedings,  methods  of  work  and  guidelines 
undertaken  by  the  Court  in  recent  years,  which  has 
facilitated  expedited  attention  to  cases  and  has  been 
key  in  ensuring  that  this  legal  organ  can  sustain  its 
pace of activity.  

Moreover,  Mexico  wishes  to  thank  the  General 
Assembly for its willingness to increase the number of 
the Court’s legal assistants and security staff, as well as 
for its willingness to create a new General Service post 
for  telecommunications  technician.  Along  the  same 
lines,  Mexico  calls  for  the  General  Assembly  to 
continue  to  provide  the  Court  with  tools  to  ensure  its 
optimal performance as the principal judicial organ  of 
the Organization.  

The  report  currently  before  us  illustrates  with 
clarity and conciseness the contentious cases before the 
Court  and  is  evidence  of  its  universal  nature.  In  this 
regard,  my  delegation  wishes  to  indicate  that,  of  the 
17 cases  before  the  Court  under  the  period  under 
review, a number of them concerned States from Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean,  which  clearly  shows  the 
region 
commitment  of 
to  compliance  with 
international 
the  peaceful  resolution  of 
disputes.  
My  delegation  would  like  to  highlight  the  great 

legal  value  of  the  Court’s  rulings  not  only  for  States 
parties involved in a case,  but also for the  creation of 
international  jurisprudence  that  is  of  interest  for  the 
international community as a whole. The Court plays a 
fundamental  role  in  developing  international  law.  The 
the 
law  and 
11-56448 

19 
intensive  due 
to 
the 
initiation  of 
Mr.  Arguello-Gómez  (Nicaragua)  (spoke 
A/66/PV.43 

ruling  in  the  case  concerning  Pulp  Mills  on  the  River 
Uruguay (Argentina v. Uruguay), is a clear example of 
this fact. We also see it in the constant evolution of the 
thematic complexity of the cases before the Court.  

I  would  like  to  conclude  by  reiterating  Mexico’s 
attachment  to  the  International  Court  of  Justice  as  the 
main legal organ for the peaceful solution of disputes.  

in 
Spanish): Nicaragua would like to express its gratitude 
to Judge Hisashi Owada, President of the International 
Court  of  Justice,  for  his  introduction  of  the  Court’s 
report (A/66/4). 

The fact that the 2010-2011 judicial year, like the 
previous period, continues to be an extremely busy one 
and that, moreover, it is expected that next year will be 
equally 
two 
contentious  cases,  illustrates  the  relevance  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  as  the  principal  United 
Nations  judicial  organ  and  as  the  only  international 
court  of  a  universal  character  and  with  general 
jurisdiction. In this regard, we would like to highlight 
that  the  work  of  the  Court  not  only  contributes  to 
promoting, 
disseminating 
information about the rule of law, but also that its work 
is  key  to  international  security  in  that  it  promotes  the 
peaceful  resolution  of  conflicts,  which  is  one  of  the 
main  purposes  of  the  United  Nations  and  a  constant 
desire of humankind.  
We regret that, once again, the report reflects the 

fact 
that  only  66  States  have 
the 
compulsory  jurisdiction  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  and  that  some  of  those  recognitions  contain 
reservations that, in many cases, void the very meaning 
of  the  acceptance  of  such  jurisdiction.  We  urge  all 
States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  recognize  the 
Court’s 
to 
strengthening the rule of law internationally. 

Nicaragua’s international relations are based on a 
policy of friendship, solidarity and reciprocity between 
peoples,  which  is  why  we  not  only  recognize  the 
principle  of  the  peaceful  settlement  of  international 
disputes  by  means  of  international  law,  but  why  we 
have also resorted to such means many times and will 
continue to do so. In the past 26 years, Nicaragua has 
participated  as  a  plaintiff  or  defendant  in  eight  major 
cases  and  various 
the 
International Court of Justice. Those cases include that 
of  Military  and  Paramilitary Activities  in  and  against 
incidental  ones  before 
consolidating 
jurisdiction, 
thereby 
contributing 
and 
recognized 

Nicaragua  (Nicaragua  v.  United  States  of  America), 
which  ruled  25  years  ago  that  the  United  States  was 
obliged  to  indemnify  Nicaragua  for  all  the  damage 
caused by its activities violating international law. This 
judgment  by  the  Court  is  still  pending  compliance, 
which is why Nicaragua still reserves the right to claim 
the compensation it is due. 

Among  the  cases  involving  Nicaragua  is  the 
currently  pending  Territorial  and  Maritime  Dispute 
(Nicaragua  v.  Colombia)  brought  by  Nicaragua 
10 years  ago,  whose  continuation  is  due  in  part  to 
incidental  proceedings  arising  from  the  case.  Here,  it 
should  be  mentioned  that  in  May  the  Court  decided 
that applications for permission to intervene presented 
by Costa Rica and Honduras could not be granted, and 
most recently reaffirmed the scope of the judgment of 
8  October  2007  in  the  case  of  the  Territorial  and 
Maritime Dispute between Nicaragua and Honduras in 
the Caribbean Sea (Nicaragua v. Honduras). 
Similarly,  in  the  recent  case  concerning  Certain 

Activities carried out by Nicaragua in the Border Area 
(Costa  Rica  v.  Nicaragua),  President  Daniel  Ortega 
was  the  first  to  propose  publicly  that  both  countries 
should  refer  the  matter  to  the  Court  if  they  could  not 
reach  a  bilateral  agreement.  In  March,  the  Court 
handed  down  its  ruling  on  the  provisional  measures 
requested  by  Costa  Rica,  deciding  that  both  parties 
should  refrain  from  sending  or  maintaining  personnel 
in  the  disputed  territory  and  should  find  common 
solutions  to  care  for  the  environment,  among  other 
things. Nicaragua is pleased to say that it has faithfully 
abided by all the points in the ruling and will continue 
to do so. 

Nicaragua  has  demonstrated  its  confidence  in 
international justice not only by its actions; it has also 
turned to the Court on a number of occasions and has 
used its judgments to endorse and propose mechanisms 
for  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes.  In  that  regard, 
allow  me  to  recall  that  the  initiative  for  declaring  the 
United  Nations  Decade  of  International  Law  came 
from Nicaragua, which proposed it under the  auspices 
of the Non-Aligned Movement in 1988. This initiative 
included  a  basic  concept,  that  of  promoting  universal 
compulsory mechanisms for the peaceful settlement of 
disputes, particularly through the International Court of 
Justice. 

With this purpose in mind, a ministerial meeting 
of the Non-Aligned Movement was held at The Hague 
11-56448 
20 

those 
loopholes 
that  undermine 
in  a  declaration  by 
that  can  ensure  compliance  with 


in  1989,  culminating 
the 
Movement’s  more than 80 member States — which  at 
the  time  represented  a  significant  majority  of  the 
membership  of  the  United  Nations  —  approving  the 
initiative  of presenting the  proposal for the Decade of 
International  Law  to  the  General Assembly. The  basic 
reason for this initiative was to bring back the spirit of 
the  first  two  peace  conferences  held  in  The  Hague  in 
1899  and  1907,  which  sought  to  establish  a  universal 
compulsory  mechanism  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes.  That  mechanism,  which 
first 
conferences  were  unable  to  achieve,  has  now  been 
realized in the International Court of justice.  Our task 
is to enable it to truly become a universal compulsory 
mechanism  without 
the 
compulsory nature of its jurisdiction and with genuine 
resources 
its 
decisions. 

Nicaragua believes that while perhaps because of 
international factors prevailing at the end of the 1980s 
this could not be fully achieved, we may now take it up 
again  in  order  to  advance  universal  acceptance  of  the 
Court’s  compulsory  jurisdiction.  With  this  in  mind, 
Nicaragua  will  once  again  retrace  the  steps  that  can 
enable us to revive this initiative of almost a quarter of 
a century ago. 

In  conclusion,  my  delegation  would  like  to 
express  our  great  satisfaction  with  the  work  of  the 
Court  and  to  once  again  thank  Mr.  Owada,  the 
President of the Court, for his report. 
Mr.  Sorreta  (Philippines):  At  the  outset,  allow 

me  to  express  our  sincere  sympathies  on  the  passing 
away  of  Judge Antonio  Cassese.  He  was,  in  the  truest 
sense,  a  giant  of  international  law  whose  experience 
and  expertise  in  the  field  are  widely  and  rightly 
recognized.  

Our debate today comes at a most opportune time 
as  we  commemorate  International  Law  Week  here  at 
the United Nations. As we renew our pledge to build a 
more  peaceful,  progressive  and  prosperous  world,  we 
are reminded once again of our solemn duty to further 
strengthen the ramparts upon which our world is built, 
on justice and the rule of law. That commitment finds 
its  fullest  expression  in  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  and  in  the  Court’s  faithful  exercise  of  its 
mandate. As the principal judicial organ of the United 
Nations,  the  Court  is  the  primary  institution  tasked 
with  ensuring 
in 
rule  of 
respect 
law 
the 
for 
A/66/PV.43
to 
are 
the 
The 
jurisdictional 
comprehensive 
importance  of 
including,  among  other 
international  relations,  as  it  upholds  an  integral  legal 
order founded on the primacy of the rule of law and the 
peaceful settlement of disputes. 

In  this  regard,  the  Philippines  welcomes  the 
report of the International Court of Justice contained in 
document  A/66/4,  and  the  report  of  the  Secretary-
General  contained 
in  document  A/66/295.  These 
documents 
a 
and  detailed 
demonstration  of  the  Court’s  important  work  and 
activities.  The  Philippines  wishes 
thank  and 
commend  Judge  Hisashi  Owada,  President  of  the 
International Court of Justice, for the preparation of the 
report. 

the  Court  cannot  be 
overstated.  It  is  the  only  international  court  of  a 
universal character with general jurisdiction. The Court 
handles  cases  that  are  growing  in  legal  and  factual 
complexity.  The  subject  matter  of  those  cases  is 
extremely  varied, 
issues, 
territorial  and  maritime  delimitation,  environmental 
concerns, 
immunities  of  States, 
violations  of  territorial  integrity,  racial  discrimination, 
violations  of  human  rights,  and  the  interpretation  of 
international  conventions  and  treaties.  These  cases, 
coming  from  diverse  regions,  illustrate  the  Court’s 
universality.  The  Philippines  notes  the  sustained  level 
of  activity  of  the  Court.  During  the  period  under 
review  two  new  cases  were  brought  before  the  Court, 
bringing the number of contentious cases on its List to 
14  as  of  31  July.  The  Philippines  continues  to  follow 
developments in these cases closely. 

My country commends the Court for taking steps 
that have allowed it to sustain its level of activity. With 
continuous  re-examination  of 
its  procedures  and 
working  methods,  regular  updating  of  the  practices  it 
adopted in 2001 for use by States appearing before it, 
and  the  setting  of  an  exacting  schedule,  the  Court  has 
been able to clear its backlog of cases and thus increase 
the  confidence  placed  in  it  by  States  submitting  a 
dispute for fair and timely resolution. 
To  continue  doing  so,  however,  the  Court  needs 

vital  support,  particularly 
the  area  of  human 
resources.  The  Philippines  notes  that  the  Court’s 
budget  submission  for  2012  to  2013  includes  requests 
for the establishment of several posts. The Philippines 
reiterates  its  call  for  Member  States  to  continue  to 
provide  the  Court  with  the  means  necessary  for 
ensuring its proper and efficient functioning. 
in 
11-56448 

21 
are 
to 
that 
Justice, 
in  order 
law  and 
particularly 
to  media  professionals 
The  Philippines  submits 
A/66/PV.43 


My  delegation  wishes  to  register  its  approval  of 
the work done by the International Court of Justice to 
make itself and its decisions more widely accessible to 
the  public,  to  academia,  to  the  international  legal 
community  and 
through 
publications,  visits,  sustained  engagement  with  the 
media  and  the  use  of  innovative  information  and 
communications technology. The annual publication of 
the reports on judgments, advisory opinions and orders, 
the  yearbook  and  the  bibliography,  among  others,  as 
well as the inclusion in the Court’s website of its entire 
jurisprudence  and  that  of  the  Permanent  Court  of 
International 
be 
commended.  The  Court’s  website  —  with  dynamic 
developments  in  its  content  and  user  interface  —  will 
continue to play an important role in keeping the Court 
engaged  and  connected  with  the  world  by  providing  a 
platform  for  access  at  various  points  and  at  different 
levels throughout the world. 
to 

strengthen  the  foundations  for  global  respect  for  the 
rule  of 
implementation, 
transparency and accessibility, along with integrity and 
independence,  must  be  the  Court’s  cornerstones.  Yet, 
transparency and accessibility must never compromise 
the  Court’s  security.  It  is  on  that  point  that  the 
Philippines  notes  the  Court’s  reiteration  of  its  request 
to  strengthen  the  Court’s  security  team  to  enable  it  to 
confront  new 
in  respect  of 
technological 
information systems security. 

In  recent  years,  we  have  witnessed  a  steady  rise 
in  the  number  of  States,  entities  and  even  individuals 
resorting 
in 
increasing  demands  of 
attempts 
interdependence.  My 
that 
development as a reflection of increased confidence in, 
and  recourse  to,  the  rule  of  law,  which  the  Court  has 
helped to propagate. 

In  that  regard,  we  continue  to  count  on  the 
Court’s  function  of  elucidating  norms  to  provide  a 
basic  framework of  case law and norms, as well as to 
harmonize  jurisprudence  in  general  international  law, 
in order to provide guidance for specialized tribunals. 

In  the  exercise  of  its  mandate  as  the  only 
international  court  of  universal  character  with  general 
jurisdiction, our obligation is to continue to provide the 
support crucial for the International Court of Justice to 
to  specialized 
to  address 
tribunals  and  forums 
its  effective 
delegation 
threats 
views 
the 

to 
the 
the  period 
law,  which 
the  rule  of 
report  covering 
all  members  of 
maintain  and  strengthen 
underpins peaceful relations between States.  
Mr.  Errázuriz  (Chile)  (spoke in Spanish):  Chile 

takes this opportunity to express its appreciation to the 
President  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice,  The 
Honourable  Judge  Hisashi  Owada,  for  presenting  the 
comprehensive 
from 
1 August 2010 to 31 July 2011 (A/66/4). 

The  great  responsibilities  of  the  International 
Court  of  Justice  and  its  work  as  the  highest  judicial 
organ of the  United Nations deserve to be highlighted 
before 
international  community.  The  Court’s 
mission  of  fulfilling  an  advisory  role  and  peacefully 
settling  disputes,  as  entrusted  to  it  under  the  United 
Nations Charter, is reflected in the report introduced by 
its President, which we are pleased to welcome. 

The  Court  is  central  to  the  international  legal 
system,  and  States  recognize  its  leading  role  of 
providing  guarantees 
the 
international  community.  We  once  again  reiterate  that 
the advisory role of the International Court of Justice is 
particularly important. Its opinions, which are founded 
on  international  law,  provide  reasoned  arguments  to 
States  and  sound  support  for  the  functions  of  the 
United Nations Organization. 

The Court makes an ongoing contribution, in the 
framework  of  the  multilateral  system  of  peace  and 
security,  to  strengthening  relations  among  countries 
and  to  instilling  a  sense  of  respect  for  the  law  in  the 
international 
the 
fundamental principles and the mandates of the Charter 
of the United Nations, which is its backbone. 

As  its  President  has  explained,  the  Court  has 
extensive  and  complex  jurisdiction,  which  it  exercises 
for the good of the international community. It carries 
out 
framework  of  coexisting 
international, multilateral and bilateral treaties, through 
which  it  is  entrusted  with  the  judicial  settlement  of 
disputes  and  the  application  of  mechanisms  accepted 
by States in their unilateral declarations. 

As  the  Court  is  the  highest  judicial  organ  of  the 
system, we must make our voices heard and support it 
by  ensuring  that  the  necessary  material  and  human 
resources  are  made  available  to  it  for  the  exercise  of 
those competencies, according to its judicial tasks and 
the important functions that it must carry out. 
its  mandate 
combining 
order, 
in  a 
legal 
by 
22 

11-56448 
to 
to 
its  work  and  make 



We  also  express  our  appreciation  for  the  efforts 
being  made  by  the  International  Court  of  Justice  to 
widely  publicize 
it  broadly 
international  public  opinion,  using 
accessible 
modern methods and technologies. 

Those efforts have strengthened international law, 
and  the  Court  should  therefore  receive  ongoing  and 
broad  support  for  its  activities.  We  note  the  progress 
made  in  the  use  of  electronic  media  to  publicize  the 
work of the Court and facilitate access to its documents 
and to information on its work. 

I  shall  conclude  by  reiterating  our  appreciation 
for  the  praiseworthy  work  of  the  Court  and  for  its 
invaluable  contribution 
the  effectiveness  and 
observance of international law. 
Mr.  Silva  (Brazil):  Before  I  begin,  allow  me  to 

express  my  country’s  condolences  on  the  irreparable 
loss of Mr. Antonio Cassese. Although he is no longer 
with us, Mr. Cassese’s lessons on international law will 
certainly remain. 

I  join  previous  speakers  in  extending  a  warm 
welcome to Judge Hisashi Owada and thanking him for 
his  comprehensive  presentation.  My  delegation  very 
much appreciated Judge Owada’s briefing yesterday to 
the Security Council (see S/PV.6637), in particular his 
thoughts on how the Council could make fuller use of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice  in  the  settlement  of 
disputes.  Judge  Owada  spoke  of  the  organic  linkage 
that  exists  between  the  Council  and  the  Court.  My 
country believes that the Council would benefit from a 
closer relationship with the Court. 

I  was  also  very  interested  in  his  observations  on 
the parallel and complementary roles of the Court and 
the Security Council, as illustrated by the case between 
Cambodia and Thailand, a matter that the Council dealt 
with last February (see S/PV.6480), under the Brazilian 
presidency,  and  one  in  which  my  country  was  very 
directly involved. 

The  International  Court  of  Justice  is  a  key 
element  in  efforts  to  uphold  the  principles  and  norms 
of 
the  peaceful 
settlement of disputes. In the Preamble to the Charter, 
Member  States  made  a  commitment 
to  establish 
conditions  under  which 
for 
respect 
justice  and 
obligations  arising  from  treaties  and  other  sources  of 
international 
be  maintained.  The 
reinforcement of the rule of law on a global scale is a 
international 
to  ensure 
law  and 
A/66/PV.43
to 
in 
to  cases 
international 
the  report,  cases  are 
major  contribution  that  the  Court  has  given  to  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  Such 
an accomplishment should not be taken for granted. 

The  advisory  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  has  also 
played  a  major  role  in  clarifying  legal  questions  put 
forward  by  United  Nations  organs  and  other 
specialized agencies. The authoritative views expressed 
by  the  Court  in  its  advisory  opinions  have  made  an 
important  contribution 
law.  The 
General Assembly should continue to rely on the Court 
whenever necessary. 

The  Court’s  latest  report  (A/66/4)  shows  the 
heavy  demands  placed  on  it,  with  cases  covering 
myriad issues, from the jurisdictional immunity of the 
State to racial discrimination, and from  environmental 
concerns to territorial and maritime delimitation. Those 
issues  relate 
in  all  continents.  It  also 
demonstrates  the  genuinely  universal  character  of  the 
Court and its importance as the principle judicial organ 
of the United Nations. 

Brazil  welcomes  the  continued  efforts  of  the 
Court  to  keep  up  with  its  increasing  workload.  As 
highlighted 
increasingly 
complex,  often  involving  a  number  of  phases  and 
requests 
for  urgent  provisional  measures.  We 
appreciate the steps taken to enhance the efficiency of 
the  Court.  The  continued  re-examination  of 
its 
procedures  and  working  methods  are 
important 
measures  in  order  to  face  a  very  demanding  level  of 
activity. 
The  international  community  has  many  good 

reasons  to  celebrate  this  year’s  sixty-fifth  anniversary 
of the International Court of Justice. Brazil praises the 
Court  for  its  role  in  the  development  of  international 
law and in upholding the principles of the Charter. The 
work of the Court is crucial to ensuring the primacy of 
law  in  international  affairs,  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes and the promotion of more just, equitable and 
fair international relations. 

We are proud to have contributed to that process, 
along  with  the  Court’s  history,  with  highly  qualified 
Brazilian judges. I take this opportunity to pay tribute 
to  their  work  for  the  cause  of  justice,  a  tradition 
honoured currently by Judge Antonio Augusto Cançado 
Trindade. In a matter of days, six judges will be elected 
both  by  the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security 
Council.  Brazil  wishes  them  every  success  in  the 
discharge of their duties. 
law 
could 
11-56448 

23 

believes 
to  Mr.  Owada,  President  of 
A/66/PV.43 


I  take  this  opportunity  to  express  once  again 
Brazil’s  full  support  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice and our appreciation to President Owada. 
Mr.  Adoke  (Nigeria):  On  behalf  of  the  Federal 

let  me  extend  our  sincere 
Republic  of  Nigeria, 
appreciation 
the 
International  Court  of  Justice,  for  his  comprehensive 
and  incisive  report  on  the  activities  of  the  Court 
(A/66/4). 

As  a  peace-loving  State,  Nigeria  expresses  its 
resolve  and  unequivocal  support  for  the  settlement  of 
disputes  by 
the  peaceful  means  of  mediation, 
preventive  diplomacy,  arbitration  and,  in  particular 
cases,  adherence  to  the  judgments  of  the  Court  as  the 
principal judicial organ of the United Nations.  

Recalling  the  international  dimension  and  the 
diverse  legal  issues  upon  which  the  Court  has  to 
adjudicate,  such  as  contentious  cases,  the  jurisdiction 
of the Court and advisory proceedings, to mention but 
a  few,  serves  to  underline  the  universality  of  the 
Court’s rulings, in line with modern trends, which my 
delegation 
and 
commendation.  Nigeria  therefore  calls  on  countries 
that have not yet honoured the Court’s decisions to do 
so.  

Nigeria  is  a  role  model  in  adhering  to  the  ruling 
of the Court in the Bakassi case. It thanks the Court for 
its  judgment,  which  has  been  implemented  under  the 
Greentree  Agreement,  of  which  I  am  the  co-Chair 
under the auspices of the United Nations.  

Nigeria  praises  the  Court  and  its  role  in  the 
development of international law and assures it of our 
support at all times. 
Mr.  Tsiskarashvili  (Georgia):  I  would  like  to 

take  this  opportunity  to  join  previous  speakers  in 
referring to the essential role of the International Court 
of Justice as the principal judicial organ of the United 
Nations. 

In the light of that, the report before us (A/66/4) 
and  its  presentation  today  by  President  Owada  once 
again accentuate the fundamental place of the Court in 
the system of the settlement of disputes in accordance 
with  international  law.  As  indicated  in  the  report,  on 
1 April,  the  Court  delivered  the  judgment  in  the  case 
submitted  by  Georgia  against  the  Russian  Federation 
on  the Application of the  International  Convention on 
the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination, 
accolades 
merits 
in 
the 
living 
to 
prior 
to 
the 
fact 
period 
respect 
in  areas  of 
Notwithstanding 
upholding  the  second  preliminary  objection  of  the 
Russian Federation. 

that  Georgia  has 
repeatedly attempted to resolve existing disputes under 
the  Convention  with  the  Russian  Federation  through 
negotiations,  including  both  prior  to  and  since  the 
commencement of the major hostilities in August 2008, 
in  the  light  of  the  Court’s  recent  judgment,  Georgia 
formally  invited  the  Russian  Federation  to  participate 
in  further  negotiations  to  resolve  the  existing  disputes 
that  have  arisen  with 
the  Russian 
responsibility for breaches of the Convention.  

Georgia  invokes  the  responsibility  of  Russia, 
inter alia, for the prevention of the exercise of the right 
of return of ethnic Georgians who were expelled from 
the  Tskhinvali  region  and  Abkhazia  during  the  early 
1990s and as a result of the 2008 Russia-Georgia war. 
We  also  invoke  the  responsibility  of  Russia  for 
discrimination 
the 
commencement  of  major  hostilities  in  August  2008 
against  ethnic  Georgians 
the 
Tskhinvali  region  and  Abkhazia  controlled  by  Russia 
and  the  proxy  regimes,  including  with  respect  to 
ethnically  motivated  violence, 
the  destruction  of 
property,  the  violation  of  educational,  cultural  and 
linguistic  rights,  freedom  of  movement  and  issuing  of 
passports. 

While  the  Government  of  Georgia  is  taking  all 
adequate  measures  to  ensure  that  the  breaches  of  the 
Convention  by  the  Russian  Federation  are  brought  to 
an  immediate  end,  as  I  end  my  intervention  I  would 
like to draw the Assembly’s attention to paragraph 172 
of the report and paragraph 186 of the judgment of the 
Court, where the Court unequivocally indicates that the 
parties  are  under  a  duty 
their 
obligations under the Convention. 
Mr.  Ulibarri  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

The  delegation  of  Costa  Rica  thanks  Judge  Hisashi 
Owada, President of the International Court of Justice, 
for  his  clear  report  on  the  work  of  the  Court  (A/66/4) 
and  for  his  presence  before 
the  Assembly.  His 
leadership is a source of motivation and strength to the 
current and the ongoing work of the Court. We are also 
grateful  for the report of the Secretary-General  on the 
Trust  Fund  to  Assist  States  in  the  Settlement  of 
Disputes  through  the  International  Court  of  Justice 
(A/66/295). 
to  comply  with 
24 

11-56448 
to 
law.  As 
international 
international 


This  is  the  right  time  to  once  again  express  our 

country’s  complete  adherence 
the  primacy  of 
international  law,  our  full  respect  for  the  instruments 
and  organizations  of 
law,  and  our 
commitment to faithfully comply with the decisions to 
which they give rise. 

Article  1,  paragraph  1,  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  recognizes  the  peaceful  resolution  of 
international  disputes  as  an  essential  purpose  of  the 
Organization, in keeping  with the principles  of justice 
and 
the  only  universal 
international tribunal fully incorporated into the United 
Nations system, the Court’s responsibilities in that area 
are  indispensable  to  the  international  community, 
hence  the  responsibility  of  the  Organization  and  its 
States Member to support the Court in carrying out its 
tasks. Of course, that support also includes a financial 
and  logistic  dimension  that  should  be  appropriately 
reflected  through  the  allocation  of  adequate  resources 
to  the  Court  so  that  it  can  efficiently  and  effectively 
and  with  absolute  legal  independence  tackle  the  cases 
brought before it.  

Even  more  important,  States  must  respect  the 
decisions  of  the  Court  without  distinction,  whether 
they  are  substantive  matters  or  provisional  measures, 
which are especially important in the case of conflicts 
already  taking  place  on  the  ground.  Such  respect  

A/66/PV.43
In  conclusion,  Costa  Rica  notes 
should  be  provided 
in  good  faith  without  any 
manoeuvring or provocations or attempts to undermine 
the Court’s decisions and based on the conviction that 
any  damage  to  the  Court’s  integrity  or  its  mandate  or 
hindrance  of  its  functions  will  work  against  the 
international  community  as  a  whole.  Respecting  the 
Court and its decisions is the best way to guarantee the 
integrity  and  proper  functioning  of  each  proceeding 
and  the  best  way  of  once  again  consolidating  the 
Court’s indisputable role. 

the  well 
established experience of the candidates among whom 
the Court’s five new Judges will be chosen shortly. We 
wish those who will be elected every success. We also 
thank  the  Court  for  its  efficient  work  and  express  our 
confidence  that  it  will  continue  resolutely  along  the 
path 
duties, 
overcoming  all  challenges  and  promoting  peace  and 
respect through the application of international law. 
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 

the  debate  on  agenda  item  72.  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda item 72? 


It was so decided. 
  The meeting rose at 1.05 p.m. 
accomplishing 
towards 
fully 
its 
11-56448 

25 
