
A/66/PV.26
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

26th plenary meeting 
Monday, 26 September 2011, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 







In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Ms.  Kamara 
(Liberia), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 


Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Elyor  Ganiev,  Deputy  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of 
Uzbekistan. 
Mr.  Ganiev  (Uzbekistan)  (spoke  in  Russian): 

Allow  me  at  the  outset  to  extend  my  greetings  to  all 
those who are participating in the work of the General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session  and  to  wish  them 
every  success  in  their  endeavours.  It  gives  me  great 
pleasure  to  congratulate  the  Secretary-General,  His 
Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon, on his reappointment to 
that  high  post  for  a  second  term.  I  also  wish  to 
congratulate  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  on  his 
election  to  the  post  of  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  the  sixty-sixth  session,  and  wish  him 
fruitful work. 

In  2011,  Uzbekistan  has  been  celebrating  a 
landmark  date  in  its  modern  history  —  the  twentieth 
anniversary  of  independence.  Only  20  years  have 
passed  since  the  Republic  of  Uzbekistan  became  an 
independent  State  and  joined  the  ranks  of  the  fully 
fledged Members of the United Nations, having gained 
the  right  to  decide  and  build  on  its  own  present  and 
future,  but  over  that  period  Uzbekistan  has  made 

significant  progress  in  building  an  independent  State, 
developing the national economy and modernizing the 
country. 

During  those  years,  the  Republic  of  Uzbekistan 
has  transformed  itself  from  a  sluggish  raw  materials-
based  economy,  with  a  destructive  monoculture  of 
cotton,  an  underdeveloped 
industrial  and  social 
infrastructure  and  low-per-capita  consumption,  into  a 
modern country with a steadily developing economy. 

The  following  evidence  clearly  testifies  to  the 
fact  that,  over  the  past  20  years  of  independent 
development,  Uzbekistan’s  economy  has  grown  by  a 
factor  of  3.5  and  the  population’s  total  income  has 
increased  by  a  factor  of  20.  Despite  the  negative 
impact  of  the  ongoing  global  financial  and  economic 
crisis,  Uzbekistan  continues  to  develop  at  a  steady 
pace.  Over  the  past  five  years,  the  growth  in  gross 
domestic  product  (GDP)  has  averaged  8.5  per  cent. 
This  year,  it  is  expected  that  that  level  will  be 
maintained. 

in 
implementing  the  goals  set  out  in  the  Millennium 
Declaration.  During  the  years  of  independence,  State 
expenditure  in  the  social  sector  has  increased  more 
than fivefold. About 60 per cent of the annual budget is 
devoted  to  the  development  of  health  care,  education, 
communal  services,  social  welfare  and  other  sectors. 
Some  82.5  per  cent  of  the  population  has  access  to 
clean drinking water and 83.5 per cent to natural gas. 
I would like to underscore in particular the huge 

role and significance in all those changes of education 
Striking  achievements  have  been  made 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-51390 (E) 
*1151390* 




for 
the 
ranks  of 
Our  country 
is  steadily  progressing 
A/66/PV.26 

and people’s increasing awareness. Annual expenditure 
on  education  in  Uzbekistan  amounts  to  10  to  12  per 
cent  of  GDP,  whereas  that  indicator  worldwide  does 
not  exceed  3  to  5  per  cent.  An  exceptional  national 
programme  to  train  skilled  personnel  and  workers  has 
been  launched.  From  2009,  a  mandatory  12-year 
education  programme  was  introduced.  Uzbekistan  has 
set up more than 1,600 modern vocational colleges and 
high schools. 

Such  indicators,  which  are  not  often  seen  across 
the  world,  clearly  affirm  that  our  most  important  goal 
is ensure the quality of life and protect the interests of 
citizens.  The  Uzbek  model 
the  country’s 
democratization  and  transition  to  a  socially  oriented 
market  economy,  adopted  in  the  early  years  of  our 
independence,  has  served  as  the  basis  for  those 
achievements. 

towards 
achieving  the  goal  we  have  set  ourselves,  namely,  to 
join 
the  modern,  developed  and 
democratic  States  and  to  ensure  for  its  people  a  high 
standard  of  living  and  a  dignified  place  in  the  world 
community. 

Today,  we  have  every  reason  to  affirm  that  we 
have  achieved  the  main  goal,  that  is,  the  country’s 
irreversible  and  steady  reform  and  democratization. 
The  conceptual  framework  for  further  deepening  the 
democratic reforms and establishing civil society in the 
country,  developed  by  the  President  of  Uzbekistan, 
Islam  Karimov,  in  November  2010,  provides  for  the 
further development and strengthening of Uzbekistan’s 
long-term 
sustainable  development  model.  The 
conceptual framework calls for further democratization 
of  State  authority  and  governance,  reforming  the 
judicial  system,  establishing  and  developing  civil 
society  institutions,  ensuring  freedom  of  speech  and 
information,  developing  the  electoral  law,  further 
deepening market reform and liberalizing the economy. 

In assessing the state of affairs in Central Asia, it 
is  important  to  note  that,  given  its  geopolitical  and 
geostrategic  significance  and  the  very  rich  natural 
resources,  the  region  continues  to  be  the  focus  of  the 
international  community’s  attention  in  the  context  of 
the  growing  threats  and  challenges  to  security  and 
stability in the world. 

First,  the  war  that  has  been  under  way  in 
Afghanistan for more than 30 years continues to be the 
main  destabilizing  factor,  not  only  in  the  region  but 
the 
that 
forces 
the  help  of 
the  coalition 
We  firmly  believe 
also  in  the  entire  world.  More  unfortunately,  the 
situation  remains  tense  despite  all  the  measures  now 
being  taken  by  the  international  community.  It  is 
important  to  underscore,  in  particular,  that  today, 
everyone is sure that there is no military solution to the 
Afghan  problem.  Almost  all  leaders,  including  those 
involved  in  resolving  the Afghan  issue  and  the  direct 
military  command  of 
in 
Afghanistan, are of this view. 

the  Afghan  people 
themselves  must  resolve  their  country’s  problems. 
Only  through  a  compromise  between  the  warring 
parties with the Afghans themselves being involved in 
that process, as well as the socio-economic recovery of 
Afghanistan  with 
international 
community, will it be possible to find a way out of the 
current deadlock in Afghanistan’s situation.  

President  Karimov  already  stated  that  at  the 
NATO Summit in Bucharest in April 2008. We see the 
future  of  Afghanistan  as  a  peaceful  and  steadily 
developing  State  that  poses  no  threat  to  neighbouring 
countries, such that the people living in the region can 
fully enjoy the benefits of friendly, mutually beneficial 
and equal relations. Uzbekistan will continue to pursue 
a  policy  of  good-neighbourliness  and  cooperation 
towards Afghanistan on a bilateral basis, in accordance 
with mutual national interests. 

Secondly, the tragic events in Kyrgyzstan in June 
2010 posed a serious challenge to peace and stability in 
the Central Asian region. More than a year has passed 
since  those  bloody  events.  However,  to  date  no 
political  or  legal  conclusions  on  all  those  forces  and 
specific 
individuals  who  ordered,  organized  and 
perpetrated  the  crimes  have  been  drawn.  Until  such 
investigations  are  completed  and  the  perpetrators, 
irrespective  of  their  nationality,  origin  or  position,  are 
punished,  it  is  difficult  to  envisage  the  restoration  of 
trust  and  cooperation  between  the  Uzbek  community 
and the Kyrgyz. 

Thirdly,  the  socio-economic  development  not 
only of our country, but also of the entire Central Asian 
region,  is  hampered  by  the  ecological  catastrophe  of 
the Aral Sea. In practically the span of one generation, 
it  has  changed  from  once  being  one  of  the  most 
exceptional  and  most  beautiful  seas  into  a  drying  and 
disappearing  pool.  Today,  the  Aral  Sea  basin  faces  a 
range  of  ecological,  socio-economic  and  demographic 
problems  of  global  consequences.  The  Secretary-
2 

11-51390 
on 
and  Use 
the  Protection 


General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  himself  was  convinced  of 
that while visiting the Aral Sea last year. 

In  such  circumstances,  attempts  to  build  huge 
hydropower facilities on the upper reaches of the Amu 
Darya and Syr Darya rivers are counterproductive and 
dangerous,  since  they  pose  serious  threats  to  public 
safety  in  terms  both  of  environmental,  social  and 
technical  risks  and  of  preserving  the  volume  and 
course of the river flow. 

In  addressing  such  problems,  we  proceed  on  the 
premise  that  any  use  of  transboundary  watercourses 
must take into account the interests of all States located 
in their basins, and should be carried out in accordance 
with  international  law.  I  refer  in  particular  to  the 
Convention 
of 
Transboundary  Watercourses  and  International  Lakes 
of  17  March  1992  and  the  Convention  on  the  Law  of 
the Non-navigational Uses of International Watercourses of 
21 May 1997. 

We  do  not  ignore  the  rights  of  the  upstream 
countries  to  develop  their  hydropower  sector.  In  our 
view,  this  is  a  very  important  sector  of  the  economy. 
However, it would be safer and more rational to build 
cascades  of  small  hydropower  plants  with  the  same 
total production capacity. Our country’s position is not 
only  fully  consistent  with  relevant  international  law 
and  accepted  regulations,  but  it  is  also,  and  most 
importantly, derived from them. 

In  conclusion,  Uzbekistan  supports  the  theme 
proposed by the President of the General Assembly for 
this  session’s  general  debate,  namely,  “The  role  of 
mediation  in  the  settlement  of  disputes  by  peaceful 
means”.  We  fully  share  his  view  regarding 
the 
importance  of  strengthening  multilateral  machinery  so 
as  to  ensure  a  stable  and  just  world  order  that  is 
capable  of  effectively  responding  to  emerging  threats 
to regional stability and international security. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Össur  Skarphéðinsson,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs and External Trade of the Republic of 
Iceland. 
Mr.  Skarphéðinsson  (Iceland):  Let  me  start  by 

congratulating  His  Excellency  Ambassador  Nassir 
Abdulaziz Al-Nasser on his election as President of the 
sixty-sixth  session  of  the  General  Assembly,  and 
assuring  him  that  he  will  have  the  fullest  cooperation 
of the Icelandic delegation. 
A/66/PV.26

In  recent  weeks,  we  have  witnessed  the  worst 
hunger crisis of this century in the Horn of Africa. It is 
a  devastating  reminder  that  fighting  poverty  and 
hunger  is  still  the  most  important  and  challenging 
undertaking  of  our  times.  Our  collective  duty  and 
responsibility  is  to  help  our  weakest  brothers  and 
sisters.  As  wealthier  nations,  we  must  do  better  in 
providing  relief.  We  must  act  with  more  speed  and 
more generosity to help those who are deprived of the 
basic  necessities  of  life  —  food  and  water.  I  can  say, 
my friends, that in Iceland, we have indeed decided to 
do so. 

I am quite happy to be able to tell the Assembly 
today  that  the  Icelandic  Parliament  has  unanimously 
agreed  to  substantially  increase  our  contribution  to 
developing nations in the coming financial year. It has 
also  accepted  a  plan  to  raise  our  aid  to  the  goal  of 
0.7 per  cent  of  our  gross  national  income. That  is  our 
pledge,  as  agreed  by  every  political  party  in  the 
Icelandic Parliament. 

The fight against hunger and poverty is the same 
struggle as the one we wage to protect our planet from 
the ravages caused by the greed of our own species. All 
Members  know  that,  next  year,  we  will  celebrate  the 
twentieth  anniversary  of 
the  bright  new  vision 
introduced  at  the  historic  Earth  Summit  in  Rio.  Over 
these past 20 years, deep concern for the environment 
has indeed moved to the forefront of the global agenda. 
But the Assembly also knows the sobering truth, which 
is  that  the  ambitions  of  Rio  are  still  a  far  cry  from 
being  realized.  Actions  are  still  needed.  If  ever  there 
was a time to act boldly, that time is now. 

The key theme of Rio next year will be the “green 
economy”. I  assure the Assembly that  my country has 
expertise  to  offer  that  can  help  to  fuel  a  green 
revolution.  Renewable  energy,  marine  health, 
the 
sustainable use of land and, not least, gender equality, 
which  have  always  been  at  the  core  of  the  Icelandic 
foreign policy, are the four issues that we shall bring to 
Rio  next  year.  What  we  really  need  is  indeed  a 
revolution, a green revolution. We need a seismic shift 
from fossil fuels to renewable energy. That is the only 
way to turn the ship. 

cutting-edge 
technology  on  geothermal  energy  that  we  want  to 
share.  That  splendid  form  of  renewable  energy  is  the 
most  undervalued  and  overlooked  source  of  cheap 
power  in  the  world.  Of  course,  geothermal  is  most 
Iceland,  we  have 
some 
In 
11-51390 

3 
A/66/PV.26 

certainly not a silver bullet, but it needs to be a part of 
the  portfolio  that  we  must  develop  to  solve  emissions 
problems. Many members know that Central and South 
America, East Africa and South-East Asia are home to 
vast areas literally brimming with geothermal potential. 
Icelandic  know-how,  coupled  with  outside  financing, 
could  go  a  long  way  in  making  those  areas  self-
sufficient in terms of green energy. 

As one of the largest fishing nations, Iceland has 
always  been  deeply  protective  of  the  health  of  the 
oceans.  Today,  climate  change  threatens  to  place  the 
fisheries of the world under a new strain. As we speak, 
the  acidification  of  the  oceans  resulting  from  human 
carbon  emissions  is  affecting  the  health  of  the  marine 
environment.  This  is  especially  true  in  the Arctic  and 
its vicinity, which is my home. As a marine biologist, I 
fear that, more likely sooner than later, this may affect 
the world’s fishing stocks,  which  are a  vital source of 
protein for more than 1 billion people. This is just one 
more argument why we so urgently need to conclude a 
post-Kyoto  agreement  later  this  year  on  the  reduction 
of greenhouse gases. 

Every  day,  the Arctic  bears  silent  witness  to  the 
impact of climate change. The snow that I experienced 
as  a  child  is  today  fast  becoming  a  rare  event  for  my 
two teenage daughters. The sad truth is that the Arctic 
glaciers  and  the Arctic  sea  ice  are  melting  at  a  much 
faster rate than anyone ever anticipated. It is of course 
true that the disappearance of the sea ice will open up 
new and shorter transport routes from the Pacific to the 
North Atlantic via the Arctic Ocean. We most certainly 
will also see huge areas open up for the exploitation of 
oil and gas resources. 

This  will  come  at  a  price,  however.  Climatic 
changes  are  forcing  the  peoples  of  the Arctic,  such  as 
our  neighbours  in  Greenland,  to  change  their  living 
habits. These changes will also melt the tundra, which 
acts as a carbon buffer against the climate system, and 
thus further  accelerate the  warming  of the planet. The 
already-fragile  ecosystem  of  the  Arctic  will  become 
even more brittle. 

Let  us  remember  what  happened  in  the  Gulf  of 
Mexico and let us be aware that oil breaks down very, 
very  slowly  in  the  extreme  cold  of  the  Arctic.  We 
should not allow the exploitation of the Arctic without 
applying 
the 
precondition  for  every  human  move 
into  Arctic 
resources. 
rules.  That  must  be 
the  strictest 


I am often asked whether a country like Iceland, 
which is not  geographically small but has, admittedly, 
slightly  fewer  people  than  most,  can  have  any  say  in 
action  on  issues  of  global  concern,  be  it  in  Rio  or  in 
New  York.  Well,  to  lift  a  phrase  from  a  famous 
statesman who spoke from this very podium a few days 
ago: “Yes, we can”.  

Twenty years ago, in 1991, we in Iceland watched 
a  television  broadcast  of  thousands  of  brave  Latvians, 
Lithuanians  and  Estonians  taking  their  destiny  into 
their own hands. They reached out to the international 
community,  among  them  the  people  of  Iceland,  and 
asked  for  help  in  breaking  the  ice  that  was  impeding 
their international recognition. 

The  great  British  statesman,  Lord  Palmerston, 
once made a famous statement to the effect that there is 
no such thing as eternal friendship between nations and 
that only eternal interests could determine how nations 
reacted towards each other. That well-known mantra is 
still  taught  today  in  every  bad  school  of  political 
science.  My  friends, 
if  Palmerston’s  words  had 
prevailed, Iceland would have turned a deaf ear to the 
call of the freedom fighters in the Baltics. We did not. 
In the historic year of 1991, Iceland became the first to 
recognize the restored sovereignty of the Baltic States. 
We did that out of respect for the principles that are so 
vitally  important  to  small  nations:  the  right  to  choose 
your own destiny, to carve out your own future — the 
undeniable  right  of  small  nations  to  be  independent. 
Principles do matter in politics. 

Based  on  the  same  principle  that  led  Iceland  to 
recognize  the  Baltic  States  in  1991,  today  we  support 
the  Palestinian  struggle  for  statehood.  Based  on  that 
very same principle, Iceland feels that the international 
community  should  welcome  Palestine  as  a  new 
Member  State  in  the  United  Nations,  based  on  the 
pre-1967 borders — exactly the same criteria as those 
laid  down  by  the  European  Union,  the  Quartet  and 
lately,  also  by  President  Barack  Obama  in  his  strong 
speech in May. 

I have been to Gaza. I have talked to the people: 
the  fishermen  who  no  longer  can  ply  their  trade,  the 
young  people  who  are  unemployed,  the  families  that 
need  a  roof  over  their  head.  I  have  also  been  to  the 
West Bank. I have seen with my own eyes how the land 
of  the  Palestinians  has  literally  been  cut  to  pieces  by 
horrible  walls  of  separation.  That  is  wrong.  That  is 
4 

11-51390 
the  General  Assembly.  Furthermore, 


unjust.  That  is  against  every  moral  code  that  Iceland 
has ever stood for as a guardian of human rights.  

We  must  remember  that  Palestine  today  is  really 
doing  just  the  same  thing  as  Israel  did  in  1947,  and 
Iceland and so many other States at the time supported 
Israel’s  action.  Israel  took  its  case  to  the  United 
Nations  and  emerged  with  statehood.  Palestine 
deserves  the  same.  And  I  think  it  is  hypocrisy  to 
suggest  otherwise.  In  the  middle  of  the  democratic 
revolution brought on by the fresh breeze of the Arabic 
Spring  and  inspired,  not  least,  by  women  and  young 
people, it would be foolish to deny Palestine its right to 
statehood. Such denial would act against reconciliation 
in the region. 

It  will,  perhaps,  not  come  as  any  surprise  to 
Members  here,  but  Iceland  will  therefore  vote  “yes”, 
when a resolution on Palestinian statehood comes to a 
vote 
the 
Icelandic Government is determined to fully recognize 
Palestine  and will next week submit to the Parliament 
of Iceland a  resolution on the recognition of Palestine 
as a sovereign and independent State. 
The  Acting  President: I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Mourad  Medelci,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the People’s Democratic Republic of 
Algeria. 
Mr.  Medelci  (Algeria)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  His 

Excellency  Mr. Abdelaziz  Bouteflika,  President  of  the 
People’s Democratic Republic of Algeria, has given me 
the  honour  of  delivering  this  address  to  the  General 
Assembly.  At  the  outset,  I  wish  to  congratulate  the 
President  of  the  General Assembly  for  his  assumption 
of 
its  sixty-sixth  session.  His 
professional  experience  in  the  United  Nations  and  his 
personal  qualities  will  undoubtedly 
the 
excellent conduct and success of our work.  
I  also  pay  tribute  to  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Joseph 

reiterate  my 
Deiss, 
to  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  Secretary-
congratulations 
General,  upon  his  reappointment  and  express  my 
country’s  satisfaction  for  the  dynamic  manner  by 
which  he 
is 
the 
Organization. 

Now that the Republic of South Sudan has joined 
the  family  of  the  United  Nations,  on  behalf  of  my 
country,  I  warmly  congratulate  the  people  and  the 
Government of that kindred country.  
for  his  efforts.  Finally, 
the  work  and  role  of 
the  presidency  at 
leading 
in 
lead 
to 
I 
A/66/PV.26
the 

The main theme of this session, namely, the role 
of mediation  in the settlement of disputes by peaceful 
means,  was  chosen  at  a  time  of  aggravated  tensions, 
the  recurrence  of  economic  and  financial  crises, 
increasing  unresolved  challenges  and  diminished 
efforts and cooperation in multilateralism.  

Today’s  globalized  but  confused  world  has 
strayed from its social structures and balances and been 
influences  and 
crisscrossed  by  new,  unregulated 
unequal  relationships.  Therefore, 
international 
system  that  was  established  in  1945  requires  today 
adaptation  to  current  demands  in  order  to  respond  to 
the expectations of the people of the world.  

Algeria  is  following  with  special  interest  the 
ongoing  events  in  some  countries  in  its  region,  which 
have  led  to  numerous  lives  lost  and  huge  material 
damage. Algeria  deplores  the  violence  experienced  in 
some  countries,  and  reiterates  its  call  for  a  political 
settlement of all of those ongoing situations, based on 
the  aspirations  of  the  people  for  freedom,  justice  and 
democracy, and respect for each country’s sovereignty 
and for international law. 
With  respect  to  Libya,  Algeria  expects  a  rapid 

restoration of peace and security and the formation of a 
Government  that  represents  all  sections  of  Libyan 
society.  We  are  convinced  that  Libya’s  stability  is  a 
fundamental element for the stability of the region as a 
whole.  From 
its 
determination  to  work  immediately  with  the  new 
Libyan authorities to promote full, exemplary bilateral 
collaboration  based  on  a  spirit  of  brotherhood  and 
solidarity. 

Recent  developments  on  the Arab  stage  will  not 
fail  to  directly  affect  the  situation  prevailing  in  the 
Middle East. Continued Israeli occupation of Palestine 
and other occupied Arab territories, as well as the lack 
of  genuine  prospects  for  just  and  lasting  peace  in  the 
region are, in that regard, a source of deep concern for 
Algeria.  The  stalemated  peace  process  in  the  Middle 
East,  the  continued  building  of  settlements  and  the 
continued  campaign  to  Judaize  the  holy  city  of 
Al-Quds continue daily to further distance any prospect 
of  a  just  and  lasting  peace  based  on  the  principle  of 
land for peace. 

That situation, which weighs heavy with risk and 
uncertainty  in  an  already  sensitive  region,  is  both  an 
affront to the peoples of the region and a challenge for 
those 
the  entire 
international  community.  Among 
this  podium,  Algeria  reaffirms 
11-51390 

5 

A/66/PV.26 

challenges,  the  inhumane  embargo  of  Gaza  and  its 
seacoast constitutes a genuine collective punishment of 
its inhabitants.  

The  Palestinian  Authority’s  initiative,  at  this 
session,  requesting  that  Palestine  be  recognized  as  a 
full  Member  State  of  the  United  Nations  is  an 
opportunity for the United Nations to correct, to some 
extent,  an  injustice  that  has  lasted  for  over  60  years 
now.  This  admission  will  be  a  clear,  unequivocal 
response  by  the  international  community  showing  its 
determination to impose international law and to reject 
a policy of fait accompli.  

In the same context, Algeria reiterates its concern 
at  the  persistence  of  coercive  economic  measures  and 
unilateral  sanctions  against  developing  countries.  I 
would recall in this respect the embargo that has been 
imposed against Cuba for over half a century now.  

There  is  another  issue  on  the  agenda  of  the 
United Nations that calls for special attention, namely, 
the  situation  in  the  Western  Sahara.  Indeed,  no  effort 
must  be  spared  in  promoting  the  path  of  dialogue  and 
negotiation, which is the only way that will enable the 
Saharawi  people  to  freely  express  their  right  to  self-
determination.  In  this  context,  Algeria  reiterates  its 
commitment to provide full support to the efforts of the 
Secretary-General and his Personal Envoy, and appeals 
to  both  parties,  Morocco  and  the  Frente  Polisario,  to 
demonstrate  a  spirit  of  responsibility  in  settling  this 
conflict, which has unfortunately lasted all too long. 

This  year  marks  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the 
terrorist  attacks  of  11  September  2001.  The  time  has 
come  for  the  international  community  to  reiterate  its 
full  commitment  to  the  fight  against  international 
terrorism. The  progress  made  to  date  to  eradicate  this 
scourge does not yet satisfy us, nor does it allow us to 
let down our guard. On the contrary, we should remain 
ready  to  contribute  appropriate  solutions  to  the  root 
causes of terrorism and its many ramifications.  
Algeria would thus take this opportunity to stress 

the  threefold  need  to,  first,  reach  the  necessary 
consensus  to  hasten  the  adoption  of  an  international 
convention  against 
terrorism;  secondly,  adopt  a 
protocol prohibiting the paying of ransoms to terrorist 
groups; and finally, prevent the use of information and 
communications technologies for criminal purposes.  

In  order  for  this  approach  to  succeed,  we  must 
ensure a return to strict respect for the fundamentals of 
our  cooperation,  the  preservation  of  the  universal 
character  of  our  Organization, 
the  primacy  of 
international law and the full application of the rules of 
multilateralism. 

The current weaknesses of world governance are 
illustrated on a daily basis in the various crises that we 
face. In this respect, I would refer first to the inability 
of  the  United  Nations  in  general,  and  the  Security 
Council in particular, to manage conflicts that threaten 
international  peace  and  security  or  even  to  ensure  the 
implementation  of  their  own  resolutions.  Secondly,  I 
would refer to the recent global economic and financial 
crisis  and  its  devastating  effects,  in  particular  its 
impact on developing countries’ economies. This crisis 
has  exposed  a  system  subject  to  the  vagaries  of  the 
market,  which  responds  more  to  the  need  for  large 
private companies to make a profit than to the need for 
growth  and  development.  This  system  excludes  the 
countries  of  the  South  from  both  the  management  of 
relevant  international  institutions  and  from  setting  the 
rules  that  govern  them.  Thirdly,  I  would  mention  the 
tragic effects of climate change, which are a real threat 
to the future of the international community.  

Given  these  realities,  we  must  adopt,  within  the 
framework  of  the  United  Nations,  a  global,  inclusive 
approach in order to, first, ensure general reform of the 
United  Nations  as  a  precondition  to  the  establishment 
of  financial 
the 
expectations  of  our  countries  and  counter  speculative 
movements  and  the  virtual  markets’  dominance  over 
the  realities  of  the  world  economy.  Secondly,  the 
reform  of  the  United  Nations  should  make  it  possible 
for  an  effective  collective  security  system  to  emerge 
that  will  be  able  to  respond  to  the  breadth  and 
complexity  of  the  challenges  that  the  international 
community faces. Thirdly, we must ensure the success 
of  upcoming  events  and  programmes  on  the  United 
Nations  agenda,  in  order  to  achieve  real  awareness-
raising and so that decisive action can be taken to settle 
the problems caused by climate change. 
If Algeria is encouraging the adoption of a global 

approach  at 
the  world’s 
development, it is because it has participated in certain 
initiatives  that  have  demonstrated  how  effective  they 
can be at the regional level. Here, I would refer to the 
many efforts  undertaken by the Sahel  countries, along 
with their partners, during the international conference 
on  development  and  the  fight  against  terrorism  held 
recently in Algeria. This allowed us to make important 
this  crucial  point  of 
to 
institutions 
that  can  respond 
6 

11-51390 
that 
these 
reforms 
include  a 
review  of 


decisions  on  containing  the  phenomenon  of  terrorism, 
reducing  its  effects  and  attacking  its  root  causes. 
Beyond the fight against terrorism, the conference also 
insisted  on  highlighting  a  priority 
is  often 
forgotten, which is putting the issue of development at 
the  very  heart  of  all  cooperation  efforts.  Such 
cooperation,  which  is  currently  very  crucial  at  the 
regional  level,  requires  support  from  our  partners  that 
responds to the needs expressed by our countries. 

I  would  like  to  devote  the  last  part  of  my 
comments  to  recent  measures  undertaken  by  my 
country  to  reinforce  political,  economic  and  social 
reforms  aimed  at  strengthening  the  rule  of  law  and 
good  governance.  On  the  political  and  institutional 
levels, 
the 
Constitution, the adoption of a new law on information 
and the media, the decriminalization of press offences, 
an opening of audiovisual media, an amendment of the 
law on political parties and of the electoral law, and the 
strengthening of the role of women in elected bodies.  

These  political  reforms  are  based  on  our  firm 
desire to promote human rights as broadly as possible, 
as  was  reiterated  to  all  the  special  rapporteurs  who 
have visited Algeria since November 2010. 

On  the  economic  level,  decisive  measures  have 
been  taken  to  improve  the  business  climate,  free  up 
productive energy and reinforce the role of companies 
and 
the  drivers  of  growth  and 
development.  On 
is 
concerned about the future of its youth, it has increased 
the  number  of 
its  assistance  and  employment 
programmes for the various categories of youth so that 
they  can  make  a  smooth  integration  into  the  labour 
market.  These  measures  will  of  course  lead  to  a 
strengthening of the democratic process and of the rule 
of  law  through  an  inclusive  approach  that  brings 
together  all  the  political  and  social  forces  in  my 
country. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Highness  Sheikh  Abdullah  Bin  Zayed  Al  Nahyan, 
Secretary  of  State  for  Foreign  and  Commonwealth 
Affairs of the United Arab Emirates. 
Sheikh Abdullah Bin Zayed Al Nahyan (United 

Arab Emirates) (spoke in Arabic): It is my pleasure to 
take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  the  President  of 
this  session,  who  is  the  Permanent  Representative  of 
our sister State of Qatar, for his election as President of 
the  sixty-sixth  session  of  the  United  Nations  General 
level,  as  Algeria 
institutions  as 
the  social 
A/66/PV.26
to 
like 
like 
take 
term.  I  would  also 
Addressing  enormous 
Assembly.  I  am  confident  that  his  experience  in 
international  political  and  diplomatic  affairs  will 
contribute to the success of this session’s work. I wish 
him  every  success.  I  also  wish  to  commend  his 
predecessor,  His  Excellency  Joseph  Deiss,  for  his 
outstanding  leadership  of  the  previous  session  of  the 
General  Assembly.  In  addition,  I  would 
to 
congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-Moon  on  the 
renewed  confidence  in  him  and  his  reappointment  as 
Secretary-General of this international Organization for 
a  second 
this 
opportunity  to  congratulate  the  Republic  of  South 
Sudan  for  joining  our  international  Organization  as  a 
State  Member  of  the  United  Nations,  along  with  the 
people  of  Libya  for 
their  Transitional  National 
Council’s taking Libya’s seat in the United Nations. 

international  challenges 
depends  on  the  extent  of  consolidated  and  collective 
work, with the participation of all States, including the 
small  and  developing  ones,  in  international  decision-
making  structures,  institutions  and  mechanisms,  based 
on the principles of equality, justice and transparency. 

My  country  has  therefore  undertaken  extensive 
preventive  diplomatic  efforts  in  order  to  contain  the 
tensions and disputes occurring in its surroundings and 
beyond. The United Arab Emirates vigorously seeks to 
enhance  its  humanitarian  and  economical  programmes 
to  several  developing  countries,  particularly  to  those 
countries  undergoing  conflicts  or  natural  disasters,  in 
addition 
to 
peacekeeping  operations,  protection  of  civilians,  and 
re-building  efforts.  Those  contributions  represent  our 
significant  partnership  with  several  parties,  and  our 
dedication 
the  noble  objectives  of 
maintaining  and  consolidating  international  peace  and 
security. 

The solid strategic political approach adopted by 
the United Arab Emirates is not limited to bilateral and 
regional  cooperation;  it  is  also  evident  in  the  way  we 
handle  all issues. My country seeks to establish peace 
and  security,  eliminate  tensions  from  the  region  and 
enhance  confidence-building  measures.  We  apply  the 
same  approach  in  dealing  with  the  occupation  by  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran of the three Emirate islands of 
Abu  Musa,  and  the  Greater  and  Lesser  Tumbs.  Since 
the illegitimate occupation of those islands in 1971, my 
country  has  adopted  a  flexible  diplomatic  approach  to 
resolve  this  issue  through  peaceful  means,  either 
through direct bilateral negotiations, or by referring the 
its  other  effective  contributions 
to  achieve 
to 
11-51390 

7 

A/66/PV.26 

matter  to  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  This  has 
been our approach throughout the last four decades. 

However, the United Arab Emirates expresses its 
deep  concern  over  the  lack  of  progress  in  direct, 
regional and international contacts made so far with the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  with  a  view  to  reaching  a 
peaceful,  just  and  permanent  solution.  The  actions 
taken  by  Iran  with  the  aim  of  changing  the  legal, 
physical  and  demographic  situation  of  the  islands  are 
null  and  void  and  have  no  legal  effect  whatsoever. 
Those  Iranian  actions  also  constitute  a  violation  of 
international  law,  as  well  as  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter. Therefore, we call on the Islamic Republic of 
Iran  to  enter  into  serious  and  direct  negotiations 
between  the  two  countries,  or  to  refer  the  issue  to  the 
International Court of Justice in light of its continuous 
illegal  occupation  of  the  three  islands,  which  are  an 
integral part of the territorial sovereignty of the United 
Arab Emirates. 
We  have  been  closely  monitoring  the  major 

the 
developments  and  complications  surrounding 
Palestinian 
in 
issue,  which  unfortunately  resulted 
halting the efforts and chances of resuming peace talks. 
It  is  time  to  resolve  this  issue  in  all  its  humanitarian, 
legal and political aspects. The core of the solution for 
this  issue  lies  in  the  establishment  of  a  full-fledged 
sovereign  State  within  the  4  June  1967  borders,  with 
East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  Comprehensive  and  just 
peace between Arab countries and Israel would greatly 
assist  in  reducing  tensions  and  deprive  the  voices  of 
extremism and violence from using this ongoing issue 
as  a  major  justifications  for  their  extremism  and 
violence.  

My  country  has  been  closely  monitoring  the 
recent  events  in  the  brotherly  Kingdom  of  Bahrain, 
which  have  adversely  affected  its  peace  and  stability. 
While  we  are  extending  every  required  support  to  the 
Kingdom  of  Bahrain,  we  denounce  any  external 
intervention in Bahrain’s internal affairs. 

We  believe  that  the  measures  and  good  efforts 
undertaken  by  His  Majesty  King  Hamad  bin  Issa 
Al Khalifa  of  Bahrain  to  promote  national  dialogue 
among  all  segments  of  Bahraini  society  are  important 
steps  that  seek  to  maintain  peace  and  stability  in  the 
Kingdom,  preserve  civil  peace,  strengthen  national 
unity  and  pursue  reforms  and  progress,  in  a  manner 
that  will  realize  the  hopes  and  aspirations  of  all  the 
people of Bahrain.  
in 
the 
its  people 

We  emphasize  that  the  sovereignty,  security  and 
territorial  integrity  of  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  are  an 
integral part of the security and stability of the Arabian 
Gulf region, and also part of the responsibilities of the 
Arab  Gulf  Cooperation  Council  in  the  region.  All 
members  of  the  Council  are  keen  to  consolidate  good 
neighbourly  relations  with  all  States,  based  on  the 
principles  of  international  law  and  other  international 
instruments. 

The  United  Arab  Emirates  renews  through  this 
international  platform  its  full  commitment  to  the 
sovereignty,  independence,  territorial  integrity  and 
national unity of Libya. We also stress our commitment 
to  Security  Council  resolutions  1970  (2011)  and  1973 
(2011) with regard to the protection of civilians. Since 
the beginning of the Libyan crisis, we have focused on 
the  humanitarian  assistance  aspect  and  the  protection 
of civilians. We realized these goals within the efforts 
of  the  international  community.  We  will  continue  to 
support  Libya  and 
the  upcoming 
reconstruction  phase.  We  believe  that  the  honourable 
people  of  Libya  and  its  leadership  are  capable  of 
identifying the characteristics of next phase in order to 
enhance  Libya’s  stature  within 
international 
community  and  strengthen 
its  development  and 
stability.  To 
this  end,  my  country  calls  on  our 
international  partners  to  intensify  their  efforts  to 
release the remaining Libyan frozen assets.  

My  country  has  also  made  substantial  direct 
contributions for the reconstruction of Afghanistan, for 
restoring  peace  and  stability  in  the  country  and  for 
alleviating  the  suffering  of  its  people.  Success  in  this 
regard  will  be  a  focal  point  in  countering  extremism, 
militancy,  and  international  terrorism  in  the  Arabian 
Gulf  region.  In  addition,  peace  and  security 
in 
Afghanistan  have  a  direct  impact  on  regional  security 
and on the security of the Arab Gulf region. From this 
platform,  I  call  on  all Afghani  parties  to  cooperate  in 
achieving  a  process  of  comprehensive  national 
reconciliation  and  extending 
the 
Government  over  all  Afghani  regions.  We  also  look 
forward to the international conference on Afghanistan 
to be held in Bonn next December.  
Food  security  is  one  of  the  biggest  challenges 

facing  the  world  today.  It  is  estimated  that  in  2010 
more than 900 million people worldwide suffered from 
chronic  hunger.  The  recent  tragedy  of  famine  in  the 
Horn  of  Africa  has  demonstrated  the  urgent  need  for 
international 
concrete  efforts  on 
the  control  of 
the  part  of 
the 
8 

11-51390 
for 
the  most 


community 
to  ensure  protection 
vulnerable peoples in times of crisis. 

In  a  serious  discussion  of  the  issue  of  food 
security, we cannot overlook the significance of water 
security, especially in view of the fact that agricultural 
production consumes around 70 per cent of fresh water 
resources  globally.  My  country  therefore  deems  it 
important  to  include  the  issue  of  water  scarcity  and 
security  in  future  plans  aimed  at  increasing  food 
production worldwide. Living as we do in a region that 
suffers from a scarcity of water, we are more aware of 
its importance, which prompts us to stress the need for 
the  international  community  to  tackle  this  challenge 
decisively and urgently. 

In  December,  my  country  will  celebrate  its 
fortieth  anniversary.  One  of  the  major  successes  and 
positive indicators of human development that we have 
achieved has been the advancement and empowerment 
of  Emirati  women. With  the  support  of  our  leadership 
and society, we have been able to arrive at the optimum 
balance  between  our  traditions  and  the  demands  of 
development  and  participation  required  to  build  our 
society.  In  this  context,  I  would  like  to  take  the 
opportunity  commend  the  establishment  of  the  United 
Nations  Entity 
the 
Empowerment  of Women  (UN-Women).  In  support  of 
this newly established and promising entity, the United 
Arab  Emirates  hereby  announces  its  contribution  of 
$5 million to the UN-Women fund. 

In  conclusion,  we  hope  that  our  deliberations  at 
this  session  of  the  Assembly  will  contribute  to  the 
promotion 
forms  of 
understanding, solidarity and international cooperation 
aimed at addressing the global issues on our agenda. 

Excellency  Mr.  Hamrokhon  Zarifi,  Minister 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Tajikistan. 
Mr. Zarifi (Tajikistan) (spoke in Russian): Allow 

to  congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nassir 
me 
Abdulaziz Al-Nasser  on  his  assumption  of  the  post  of 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth 
session.  I  have  every  confidence  that  his  wealth  of 
experience  will  contribute  to  the  achievement  of 
important  results  in  our  collective  work.  I  would  also 
like  to  congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon 
on his reappointment as Secretary-General. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 
for 
for  Gender  Equality 
and  development  of 
and 
all 
A/66/PV.26
independent, 
Two  weeks  ago 

the  people  of  Tajikistan 
celebrated  a  solemn  event  in  their  modern  history  — 
the  twentieth  anniversary  of  independence  for  the 
Republic  of  Tajikistan.  Despite  numerous  difficulties 
and  challenges,  the  Republic  of  Tajikistan,  during  the 
years  of  its  independence,  has  succeeded  in  achieving 
considerable  progress  and  laying  a  foundation  for 
gradual  social  and  economic  development. We  greatly 
appreciate  the  contributions  made  by  the  United 
Nations and its Member States to the establishment and 
development  of  an 
sovereign  and 
democratic Tajikistan, governed by the rule of law. 

The maintenance of peace and security remains a 
top priority for the entire international community. For 
this reason, it is essential that Member States shoulder 
their  due  responsibilities  and  take  the  joint  measures 
necessary to bring a speedy halt to wars and conflicts. 
We  welcome  the  settlement  in  South  Sudan  and  the 
accession  of  the  Republic  of  the  South  Sudan  as  the 
new,  193rd  Member  of  the  United  Nations.  Tajikistan 
also  calls  on  all  parties  concerned  to  maximize  their 
efforts  towards  a  speedy  and  full  settlement  of  the 
continuing conflict in the Middle East. We support the 
State of Palestine in its efforts to take its well-deserved 
place  as  a  fully  fledged  member  of  the  community  of 
nations. 

The  Government  of  Tajikistan,  aware  of  its 
responsibility  for  addressing  social  and  economic 
issues,  has  been  working  consistently  to  maximize  its 
own  capacity  to  attain  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  Implementation  of  our  national  strategy  for 
development  of  the  Republic  of  Tajikistan  is  a  key 
priority  of  our  Government.  Proceeding 
from 
principles of sustainable development for our economy, 
the Government of Tajikistan has identified three major 
goals: ensuring energy  and food security, and tackling 
the country’s isolation in terms of communications. 

International  trade  and  direct  investments  can 
also  help  in  achieving  our  development  goals.  We 
believe that the international trade system must remain 
open,  fair,  predictable  and  non-discriminatory.  Guided 
by  these  principles,  Tajikistan  is  currently  in  active 
talks on joining the World Trade Organization (WTO). 
In  this  regard,  we  are  seeking  the  support  of  WTO 
member  States  to  help  speed  up  the  process  of 
Tajikistan’s entry. 

The problems of climate change and its negative 
effects  cannot  be  overcome  without  the  collective  and 
11-51390 

9 

the 
and 
entire 
efficiency, 
efforts  of 
A/66/PV.26 

coordinated 
international 
community. We know that climate change affects fresh 
water resources as well as exacerbating extreme floods, 
landslides,  droughts  and  other  natural  disasters.  In 
Tajikistan,  where  about  60  per  cent  of  the  water 
resources for the whole of Central Asia originate, more 
than 35 per cent of glaciers have disappeared in the last 
30  years.  The  accelerated  melting  of  glaciers  creates 
additional  risks  for  sustainable  development  and 
regional water, energy and food security. In that regard, 
at  the  United  National  Climate  Change  Conference  in 
Copenhagen,  the President  of Tajikistan  put forward  a 
proposal  to  set  up  an  international  fund  for  saving 
glaciers,  which  could  combine  the  efforts  of  the 
international community in this strategically important 
area.  We  hope  that  Member  States  will  support  this 
initiative. 
The comprehensive development of hydroelectricity, 

combined  with  other  types  of  renewable  energy,  will 
enable  us  not  only  to  increase  the  capacity  of  our 
energy  systems  but  also  to  enhance  their  stability  and 
increased 
considerably  decrease 
harmful emissions into the atmosphere. For more than 
10 years, the Republic of Tajikistan has experienced a 
severe  electric  power  shortage  in  winter.  Owing  to  a 
lack of other energy sources, it is vital that Tajikistan, 
which possesses enormous hydropower potential, begin 
to undertake consistent, comprehensive development of 
its hydro-energy sector. 

Tajikistan is prepared to cooperate closely on all 
issues of the rational use of water and energy resources 
with  every  country  in  the  region  and  with  due 
consideration  for  common  regional  interests.  This  has 
been  repeatedly  emphasized  by 
the  President  of 
Tajikistan,  Mr.  Emomali  Rahmon,  including  in  the 
General  Assembly’s  general  debate  at  its  sixty-third 
and  sixty-fourth  sessions,  and  in  other  international 
forums on the subject of water. 
As  is  well  known,  in  the  second  half  of  the 

the  Central  Asian  region  was 
twentieth  century 
confronted with a massive ecological crisis: the drying 
up  of  the  Aral  Sea.  Wilful  disregard  for  rational, 
careful and responsible use of natural resources has led 
to the death, for all practical purposes, of the Aral Sea. 
The  enormous  number  of  reservoirs  that  have  been 
built  and  continue  to  be  built  across  vast  areas 
downstream  of  the  Aral  Sea  have  also  contributed 
considerably  to  its  drying  up.  The  total  water  content 
of  those  reservoirs  and  bodies  of  water  represents 
Water 
resource  of 
is  a  crucial 
the  water  content  of 
1.5 times 
the  Aral  Sea. 
Overcoming  this  crisis  will  require  not  just  massive 
capital investment in the water sector but also political 
will  and  a  readiness  to  implement  long-term  joint 
measures  for  the  rational  use  of  water  and  energy 
resources throughout the Aral Sea region.  

It is for this reason that Tajikistan suggested that 
the  United  Nations  should  carry  out  a  comprehensive 
expert study of water use in Central Asia, including on 
issues related to the effectiveness and rationality of the 
use  of  existing  reservoirs  and  an  investigation  of  the 
environmental situation in the region as a whole. 

immense 
importance  to  sustainable  development  and  to  life  on 
our  planet.  We  need  to  strengthen  international  and 
regional water cooperation through the effective use of 
existing  mechanisms  and  instruments.  With  that  in 
mind, Tajikistan called for the proclamation of 2013 as 
the International Year of Water Cooperation. 

Terrorism  is  one  of  the  major  threats  to  the 
international  peace  and  security.  Tajikistan  condemns 
terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations.  We 
believe 
that  we  must  swiftly  adopt  a  universal 
convention on international terrorism.  

The prevention of illicit drug trafficking is part of 
the fight against terrorism. The urgency of this problem 
is  a  clear 
to 
international  stability  and  security.  My  country  is 
making  its  contribution  to  the  fight  against  the  drug 
trade.  We  have  set  up  an  anti-drugs  body 
that 
cooperates  with  other  international  organizations  and 
similar  services  of  other  States  in  taking  measures  to 
fight illicit drug trafficking in our region.  

Tajikistan  reiterates  its  commitment  to  the  full 
and 
effective 
the  Ottawa 
Convention on the Prohibition of the Use, Stockpiling, 
Production  and  Transfer  of Anti-Personnel  Mines  and 
on  Their  Destruction.  My  country  unreservedly 
supports  a  mine-free  Central  Asia.  We  support  the 
adoption of measures leading to the demining of mined 
areas and the tackling of other mine-related problems. 

Tajikistan  is  concerned  at  the  situation  in  the 
neighbouring country of Afghanistan. It was with great 
sorrow that we learned of the tragic death of the former 
President  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Afghanistan, 
Mr. Burhanuddin  Rabbani.  He  was  one  of  the  most 
important figures in recent Afghan history and, indeed, 
implementation 
indication  of 
it  poses 
the 
threat 
of 
10 

11-51390 


in the region and the world as a whole. We would like 
to express our heartfelt condolences to the people and 
the Government of Afghanistan. 

Tajikistan supports the international strategy for a 
comprehensive  peace  settlement  in  Afghanistan  and 
post-conflict  rehabilitation.  We  deem  it  important  to 
involve  Afghanistan  in  regional  integration  through 
economic  and  trade  cooperation  with  neighbouring 
countries.  I  should  like  to  recall  the  efforts  of  the 
Dushanbe  quartet  —  Afghanistan,  Pakistan, 
the 
Russian Federation and Tajikistan — in favour of trade 
and  economic  cooperation,  the  fight  against  terrorism 
and the fight against drugs and organized crime. 
We  have  opened  five  bridges  on  the  border 

between  Tajikistan  and  Afghanistan,  and 
three 
additional  bridges  are  being  built.  This  year  we  also 
constructed a 220-kilovolt power line linking Tajikistan 
and Afghanistan. We are seeking to address the issue of 
energy  shortages  in  Afghanistan  and  in  Pakistan  by 
building up the hydro-electrical capacity of the Central 
Asian countries through the CASA-1000 project. 
The  continued  post-conflict  economic  development 

of Afghanistan  is  on  the  agenda  of  the  fifth  Regional 
Economic  Cooperation  Conference  on Afghanistan,  to 
be held next spring in Dushanbe. 

Global  problems  and  regional  challenges  cannot 
be  addressed  without  a  strengthened  United  Nations. 
The  process  of  reforming  the  United  Nations  must  be 
carried  out  in  a  rational  manner,  and  the  renewed 
United  Nations  must  become  a  strong  partner  that  is 
able to react to events across the world and rise to the 
multiple global challenges that we face in this new age. 

Tajikistan  will  continue  to  assist  the  United 
Nations  in  every  possible  way  in  its  efforts  to  build  a 
peaceful, secure and healthy planet. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  floor  to 

His  Excellency  Mr. 
José  Badia,  Government 
Councillor for External Relations and for International 
Economic  and  Financial Affairs  of  the  Principality  of 
Monaco. 
Mr.  Badia  (Monaco)  (spoke  in  French):  Allow 

me at the outset to warmly congratulate Mr. Al-Nasser 
on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General Assembly 
and  to  assure  him  of  the  support  of  my  delegation 
throughout the sixty-sixth session of the Assembly.  
A/66/PV.26
I 
on 
his 
unanimous 
and  natural  disasters  needs 
The  Secretary-General,  whom 
heartily 

congratulate 
reappointment, 
introduced,  at  the  opening  of  the  general  debate,  the 
priorities  that  he  intends  to  implement  during  his 
second term in office. His vision, which will guide our 
endeavours and our deliberations during this period of 
instability and uncertainty, sets forth the parameters for 
a new form of global governance that will need to, on 
the  one  hand,  respond  to  the  challenges  that  we  face 
and to the aspirations of our peoples and, on the other, 
take into consideration the new realities of our time. 

Among these new imperatives of the twenty-first 
century, sustainable development and the building of a 
safer world require a more responsible approach on the 
part  of  all  our  Governments  and  the  renewal  of  our 
unwavering  support  for 
the  Organization,  whose 
crucial role in the prevention of conflicts, human rights 
violations 
to  be 
strengthened and supported. 

It  was  Mr. Al-Nasser’s  clear-sighted  initiative  to 
make the role of mediation in the settlement of disputes 
by peaceful means the theme of the general debate. Our 
community now has a new Member — the Republic of 
South  Sudan  —  following  a  peace  process  that  was 
welcomed  by  all.  Since  the  beginning  of  the  year,  we 
have  seen  a  great  impetus  towards  freedom  and 
democracy among thousands of women and men across 
the Arab world. The Arab Spring has highlighted once 
again  the  universal  nature  of  the  norms  and  values  of 
the  Organization.  Justice,  democracy,  human  dignity, 
equality and freedom have led to renewed hope among 
peoples  for  too  long  repressed. Today  we  face  a  great 
challenge: not to disappoint them. 

The  Government  of  the  Principality  reiterates  its 
support  for  and  its  solidarity  with  all  who  fight  for 
respect  for  fundamental  freedoms  and  the  rule  of  law, 
and  in  that  regard  is  hopeful  that  a  just,  lasting  and 
comprehensive  settlement  will  enable  the  State  of 
Israel  and  a  viable,  sovereign  and  democratic 
Palestinian  State  to  live  side  by  side  in  peace  and 
security. 

The past year has been rich in challenges for our 
Organization.  We  have  had  to  face  great  natural  and 
humanitarian disasters, emergency situations caused by 
people  and  the  fallout  of  the  economic  crisis.  Each 
time  we 
to  safeguard 
humanity’s  shared  assets,  such  as  the  environment, 
health and peace.  
turn 
to 
this  Organization 
11-51390 

11 

(MDGs) 
to  achieving 
A/66/PV.26 


We also turn to the United Nations to protect our 
collective security. The deadly attack a few weeks ago 
on  the  United  Nations  offices  in Abuja,  the  capital  of 
Nigeria,  cruelly  reminded  us  of  the  innumerable  risks 
faced by United Nations personnel across the world — 
in Côte d’Ivoire, Afghanistan, Iraq, Darfur, the Sudan, 
everywhere  where  the  United  Nations  has  saved  lives 
or  upheld  rights.  They  sometimes  pay  the  ultimate 
price.  

But  our  Organization  has  limited  resources  and 
cannot always deal with the multiplication of conflicts. 
We must therefore focus above all on the prevention of 
conflicts.  What  is  a  better  prevention  measure  than 
development?  Last  year  from  this  same  rostrum  His 
Serene Highness Prince Albert II of Monaco reiterated 
the  Principality’s  commitment 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals 
(see 
A/65/PV.4). Monaco seeks to be a responsible, reliable 
and supportive partner, and its priorities continue to be 
improving  the  quality  of  life  of  the  most  vulnerable 
people. 

I wish to underscore the essential role of women 
in  the  prevention  and  settlement  of  conflicts  and  in 
peacebuilding. Women  and  girls  must  be  at  the  centre 
of our development strategies. It is now an established 
fact  that  a  society  that  guarantees  equality  between 
women  and  men  and  promotes 
the  economic 
independence  of  women  is  a  more  prosperous  society. 
If we wish women to be able to realize their potential 
in the economic sector, we need to get rid of obstacles 
such  as  discriminatory  regulations. We  need  to  ensure 
that  women  have  equal  access  to  economic  resources, 
particularly  to  land,  credit,  science  and  technology, 
vocational  training,  information,  communication  and 
markets.  

to  reiterate 
Executive Director, Ms. Michelle Bachelet. 

It  is  our  shared  responsibility  to  show  our 
commitment  in  the  crucial  gathering  of  2012  —  the 
twentieth anniversary of the Rio Earth Summit — and 
to  create  a  solid  basis 
for 
the  comprehensive 
development of a green economy.  

We  are  seeking  to  develop  sources  of  renewable 
energy, more environmentally friendly and healthy. But 
in  the  short  term,  we  are  not  in  a  position  to  abandon 
nuclear energy or oil. As we have learned so painfully 
through  the  Fukushima  accident,  we  do  not  know 
In this regard, the Principality of Monaco wishes 
its 
its  support  for  UN-Women  and 
the  preparatory  work  for 
whether one day it will be possible to fully control all 
the risks involved in nuclear energy. We thus continue 
to burn hydrocarbons, sending their emissions into the 
atmosphere.  These  pitfalls  pose  a  great  danger  to  our 
collective security.  

It is time to put an end to the ideological debates 
and  the  divides  that  separate  us  and  that  delay  our 
efforts to implement a green economy. 

The Secretary-General proposed that we establish 
a new generation of development objectives to succeed 
the  MDGs  after  2015.  The  Principality  of  Monaco 
supports  that  initiative,  which  aims  to  encourage  the 
international  community to  set  ambitious  goals  and  to 
provide the wherewithal to achieve them.  
As  part  of  its  contribution  to  that  endeavour, 

Prince Albert II wanted Monaco to contribute actively 
to 
the  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development by organizing 
in  the  Principality,  from  28  to  30  November  2011,  a 
meeting  of  high-level  experts  on 
the  sustainable 
management  of  oceans.  His  Serene  Highness  would 
like  to  see  the  international  community  place  the  seas 
and  oceans  at  the  top  of  the  political  agenda  at  the 
forthcoming Earth Summit.  

In spite of the development of a legal framework 
to govern activities in the oceans, the negative impacts 
of  human  activities  on  oceans  and  seas  are  becoming 
increasingly 
and 
unsustainable  practices  in  the  exploitation  of  marine 
resources 
endanger  marine 
ecosystems,  to  the  detriment  of  future  generations. 
Climate change has had a significant impact on oceans, 
leading  to  the  phenomena  of  acidification,  rising  sea 
levels and coral bleaching. Sustainable management of 
the oceans is an essential pillar of the green economy. 

Stronger  prevention  measures,  at  the  service  of 
all  Member  States,  both  developed  and  developing, 
will  enable  the  Organization  to  carry  out  its  role  with 
greater  efficiency  and  flexibility.  That  requires  the 
strengthening of its institutions, taking greater account 
of  the  role  of  the  General Assembly,  balanced  reform 
of  the  Security  Council,  increasing  cooperation  with 
regional organizations, enhanced interaction with civil 
society and private sector partnerships.  

I wish to hail the leadership and political courage 
of  His  Excellency  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss,  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at 
its  sixty-fifth  session,  who 
visible.  Marine 
continuing 
pollution 
are 
to 
12 

11-51390 
(spoke 
Mr.  Rodríguez  Parrilla


endeavoured  to  impose  the  moral  force  of  the  United 
Nations before the eyes of the entire world.  

The Principality of Monaco will not fail to work 
for  the  improvement  of  global  governance  that  our 
community  hopes  and  prays  for.  We  share 
the 
conviction  regarding  the  immense  importance  of  the 
universal  values  upheld  and  defended  by 
the 
Organization,  values  to  which  future  Members  must 
adhere, as we have done.  
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Cuba.  
in 
(Cuba) 

Spanish): I am pleased to welcome the Government of 
South Sudan as a State Member of the United Nations. 
I  also  join  the  appeal  by  all  African  leaders  for  an 
urgent,  effective  and  international  response  to  the 
famine in the Horn of Africa. 

While  we  are  engaged  in  debate  here,  in  Libya 
another  preventive  war  is  taking  place  under  the 
pretext  of  protecting  civilians.  The  United  States  and 
NATO,  supposedly  to  avoid  a  massacre,  launched  a 
military  attack  against  a  sovereign  State  without  there 
being any threat whatsoever to international peace and 
security.  They  unleashed  a  regime  change  operation. 
NATO  imposed  on  the  Security  Council  a  dubious 
resolution authorizing  

“Member  States  …  acting  nationally  or  through 
regional organizations or arrangements … to take 
all necessary measures … to protect civilians and 
civilian  populated  areas  under  threat  of  attack” 
(resolution 1973 (2011), para. 4). 

Afterwards,  NATO  violated  this  same  resolution 
in  order  to  supply  weapons,  provide  financing  to  one 
party  and  deploy  operatives  and  diplomatic  personnel 
on 
the  ground.  Now  everybody  has  a  better 
understanding of what the  concept of responsibility to 
protect  means  and  how  it  can  be  used.  In  this  war,  in 
addition  to  the  most  advanced  and  lethal  military 
technologies,  the  means  of  communication  have  been 
used  as  weapons  of  war  by  financial  and  media 
businesses, which are profiteering from the war and the 
reconstruction  operations,  as  if  they  were  agents  of 
crisis containment. 

As  early  as  21  February,  Commander-in-Chief 
Fidel  Castro  Ruz  warned  that  NATO  was  irrevocably 
preparing  a  war  against  Libya.  Since  then,  Cuba  has 
A/66/PV.26
in 
threat 
to 
The  military 
intervention 
indefatigably 
the  collapse  of 
in  Libya  and 
against  Syria  have  been 
engaged 
the  defence  not  of  a 
Government  but  of  a  principle.  It  is  unacceptable  to 
assassinate  thousands  of  innocent  people  under  the 
dubious  purpose  of  protecting  other  civilians.  History 
has  eloquently  demonstrated  that  peace  cannot  be 
imposed  either  by  war  or  by  force.  It  is  up  to  the 
Libyan  people  alone  to  choose  their  destiny,  without 
foreign  intervention,  in  the  exercise  of  their  right  to 
self-determination, independence and sovereignty over 
their  natural  resources  and  their  country’s  territorial 
integrity. 
the 

growing 
the 
opportunistic, defensive responses of the United States 
and  Europe 
their  system  of 
domination and plunder in North Africa and the Middle 
East  and  to  the  emergence  of  genuinely  popular 
movements  in  Tunisia,  Egypt  and  other  countries,  in 
order  to  secure  huge  reserves  of  oil  and  water  and  to 
confiscate financial assets in times of global economic 
and social crisis. It is the responsibility of the General 
Assembly  to  exercise  its  full  powers  to  prevent  a 
military aggression against Syria. The public should be 
have objective information and speak up against war. 

President  Barack  Obama,  in  his  threatening, 
deceitful, rhetorical speeches of 20 and 21 September, 
described what happened in Libya as a new model. He 
said,  

“This is how the international community should 
work in the twenty-first century. More nations are 
assuming  the  responsibility  and  the  costs  of 
meeting global challenges. In fact, this is the very 
purpose  of  the  United  Nations.  So  every  nation 
represented  here  today  can  take  pride  in  the 
innocent  lives  we  saved  and  in  helping  Libyans 
reclaim  their  country.  It  was  the  right  thing  to 
do.” 
A  top  White  House  official  wrote  in  Foreign 

Affairs magazine that the new United States strategy is 
more efficient and less costly. The Bush Administration 
strategy considered occupation; the Obama Administration 
strategy  is  that  of  national  liberation.  The  military 
intervention strategy in Libya could also be applied in 
other cases. 

With  absolute  cynicism,  what  is  proposed  is  a 
military  aggression  without  casualties  or  the  use  of 
infantry  troops,  the  costs  of  which  would  be  mainly 
borne  by  Europe.  The  destabilization  of  a  country 
11-51390 

13 
included 
in 
that  do  not  submit 
A/66/PV.26 

through  subversion,  covert  operations  and  economic 
sanctions  is  described,  according  to  this  doctrine,  as 
the  development  of  a  national  movement.  That  new 
regime-change  operations  model  shows  that  current 
United  States  and  NATO  military  doctrines  are  even 
more aggressive than their previous ones, and that the 
so called Euro-Atlantic periphery comprises the entire 
planet. 
No one  should doubt that  Latin America and the 

Caribbean  are 
that  concept.  The 
redeployment  of  the  Fourth  Fleet,  the  installation  of 
American bases, troops and military means to intervene 
anywhere  in  the  region,  the  coup  d’état  against 
Venezuela  in  2002,  followed  by  an  oil  coup,  the 
sedition  in  Santa  Cruz,  Bolivia,  the  military  coup  in 
Honduras  and  the  attempted  coup  in  Ecuador  all  fit 
perfectly in the new strategy. 

Can the United States and NATO guarantee today 
that the use of force and this concept of regime change 
do  not  apply  in  the  case  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  countries 
their 
interests?  Can  the  European  Union  say  something 
about it? What would the United Nations do in such a 
situation? 

The weakness of the global economy, particularly 
the  economies  of  the  United  States  and  Europe, 
continues  to  show  that  the  economic  crisis  that  began 
in  the  year  2008  has  not  yet  been  overcome.  In 
developed  countries, 
its 
consequences  is  borne  by  workers,  the  unemployed, 
immigrants  and  the  poor,  who  are  brutally  repressed 
whenever they peacefully defend their rights. 

the  South,  repeatedly 
plundered,  suffer  the  distortions  of  a  world  economic 
order  that  excludes  our  legitimate  interests. We  suffer 
under  the  onerous  impact  of  protectionism  and  the 
steady 
the  prices  of  foodstuffs  and 
hydrocarbons.  The  peoples  of  many  developing 
countries  are  victims  of 
the  bankrupt  neoliberal 
economic  model  and 
its  sequel  of  plunder  and 
exclusion.  The  social  and  political  consequences  are 
being felt on all continents. 
In  the  face  of  a  global  economic  crisis  and  the 

depletion of the planet’s natural resources, what will be 
the response of the extremist right-wing forces that are 
already in power or may come to power as a result of 
the  afflictions  and  hopelessness  of  voters?  In  the  face 
of  a  growing  and  universal  danger  of  war,  of  a  new 
terrible  burden  of 
We, 
the  countries  of 
increase 
in 
the 

to 
division of the world and of climate change, could we, 
the countries of the South, act together as an essential 
condition of our salvation?  

In  the  face  of  so  many  serious  threats,  Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean  —  the  region  of  Bolívar 
and  Martí  —  is  coming  together,  determined  to  finish 
what they left unfinished. It is impossible to divide us 
or  to  turn  us  against  each  other.  The  Bolivarian 
Alliance for the Peoples of Our America is a small but 
morally  powerful  group  of  peoples,  and  the  new 
Community of Latin American and Caribbean States is 
a fact. The full strength of the Andes will very soon be 
expressed in a summit, which will be an epoch-making 
event  in  Caracas  —  the  epicentre  of  independence  in 
the Americas, where a Bolivarian people has conquered 
power and a continental leader, President Hugo Chávez 
Frías, is ever growing. 

More  than  ever,  we  have  to  defend  the  United 
Nations, but the biggest challenge will be to turn it into 
an  organization  that  serves  the  legitimate  interests  of 
all  States,  instead  of  catering  to  the  arbitrary  wishes 
and  abuses  of  a  few  rich  and  powerful  countries.  We 
must  see  to  it  that  international  law  and  the  purposes 
and principles of the United Nations Charter prevail in 
the face of the brute force that aims to block them. It is 
necessary to re-establish the leading role of the General 
Assembly and to recast the Security Council.  

The General Assembly has the inescapable moral, 
political and legal obligation to ensure the recognition 
of  an 
the 
boundaries  established  before  1967  and  with  East 
Jerusalem as its capital, as a full Member of the United 
Nations. This should be accomplished with or without 
the  Security  Council,  with  or  without  the  veto  of  the 
United  States  and  with  or  without  new  peace 
negotiations. 

If  the  inalienable  right  of  the  Palestinian  people 
to independence, sovereignty and self-determination is 
recognized;  if  the  need  to  re-establish  the  exercise  of 
the  human  rights  of  Palestinians  is  recognized;  if  the 
blockade  of  Gaza, 
the  economic  coercion  and 
segregation  symbolized  by  the  infamous  wall  are 
recognized as crimes; if the subjugation of a nation to 
conditions  jeopardizing  its  very  existence  is  described 
as  genocide;  if  all  Member  States  are  supposed  to 
adopt  all  legal  measures  within  their  reach  to  protect 
Palestinian civilians, then the General Assembly should 
take action now. 
independent  Palestinian  State,  with 
11-51390 
14 




Cuba, a country with a small Jewish community, 
condemns the historical injustice of anti-Semitism, the 
crime  against  humanity  that  was  the  Holocaust,  and 
recognizes the right of the State of Israel to exist. Our 
people  harbour  only  fraternal  feelings  towards  the 
Israeli people, who are also victims of this conflict. 

Cuba  likewise  proclaims  that  the  United  States 
has the moral, political and legal obligation to stop its 
continual veto of Security Council resolutions intended 
to protect the Palestinian civilians. 
The European Union should oppose this veto and 

abstain from supporting the empire’s brutal pressure on 
members  of  this  Assembly  and  the  Council  itself. 
Europe  should  denounce  it  also  because  it  is  certain 
that  those  crimes  would  not  be  occurring  without  the 
military  supplies,  financial  support  and  impunity  that 
the United States provides to the Government of Israel. 

On  11  September  2001,  we  Cubans  shared  the 
pain of the American people at those atrocious terrorist 
acts. We offered selfless solidarity, encouragement and 
cooperation.  As  always,  Cuba  made  crystal-clear 
statements against terrorism and against war. 

Ten years later, the world is even more insecure, 
because  instead  of  turning  international  consensus 
against 
international 
cooperation  to  confront  it,  the  United  States  invaded 
and occupied Iraq and Afghanistan, causing the loss of 
life  of  hundreds  of  thousands  of  persons  and  pain  to 
tens of millions. It was not possible to hide the use of 
deception, 
or 
assassinations, disappearances of individuals, arbitrary 
detentions and the secret renditions and prisons of the 
Central  Intelligence  Agency  in  Europe  and  other 
regions. 

The  Government  of  the  United  States  desecrates 
the  memory  of  the  victims  of  11  September  when  it 
continues the prolonged inhumane imprisonment of the 
five  Cuban  anti-terrorist  fighters  who  were  unjustly 
condemned, 
to  sentences  of 
maximum  severity  for  seeking  information  about  the 
terrorist  activities  of  groups  that  have  operated  with 
absolute  impunity  from  United  States  territory  against 
Cuba, leading to the death of or physical harm to 5,577 
of our citizens. Once again, with all due respect, I urge 
President Obama to make use of his powers to release 
them as an act of justice or as a humanitarian gesture, 
which  would  be  highly  appreciated  by  their  children, 
wives, mothers, fathers and all of our people. 
into  a  system  of 
in  spurious 
extrajudicial 
executions 
terrorism 
torture, 
trials, 
A/66/PV.26
and 
The 
terrorism, 
economic, 
commercial 
drug-trafficking, 
the  Cuban-American  mafia 

The Cuban Government reiterates its interest and 
willingness  to  move  towards  the  normalization  of 
relations  with  the  United  States.  Today  I  reiterate  the 
proposal to begin a dialogue aimed at solving bilateral 
problems, including humanitarian issues, as well as our 
offer  to  negotiate  several  cooperation  agreements 
concerning 
human 
smuggling,  natural  disasters  and  protection  of  the 
environment, including in the event of oil spills such as 
the one that occurred at the British Petroleum platform 
in the Gulf of Mexico. 

However,  we  know  that  the  electoral  race  has 
already  begun  in  this  country,  while  the  economic 
situation is growing worse. 

financial 
blockade  of  Cuba  has  been  tightened.  The  damages  it 
has  caused  have  totalled  $975  billion,  based  on  the 
current  price  of  gold.  The  attempt  to  subvert  the 
constitutional  order  that  Cubans  have  freely  elected  is 
intensifying.  There  is  increasing  pressure  from  the 
extreme  right  and 
to 
reverse  the  minimal  steps  adopted  by  the  American 
Government to promote, to some degree, links between 
Cuban émigrés and their home country and exchanges 
between both peoples. 

In Cuba, President Raúl Castro Ruz has reiterated 
that  we  will  continue,  in  our  own  sovereign  way,  to 
change everything that needs to be changed in order to 
make  our  economy  more  efficient  and  our  socialism 
better,  to  achieve  full  justice  and  to  be  able  to  fully 
preserve our independence. 

As Martí said, “The southern sea will join the sea 
of the north and a serpent will hatch from the egg of an 
eagle  before  we  cease  our  struggle  to  make  the 
homeland free and prosperous.” 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Uri  Rosenthal,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Kingdom of the Netherlands. 
Mr.  Rosenthal  (Netherlands):  In  May  I  visited 

Tunisia, the  cradle of the  revolutions that have spread 
across  the  Arab  world.  I  spoke  to  many  people  there 
who  told  me  about  their  deep  yearning  for  freedom, 
about the decades during which their freedom had been 
suppressed  and  about  what  the  revolution  meant  for 
their  lives.  One  of  them  was  Essma  Ben  Hamida,  the 
strong-willed  director  of  a  civil  society  organization 
active  in  micro-finance.  She  said  literally  to  me,  “If 
11-51390 

15 

A/66/PV.26 

democracy  would  mean  that  I  lose  my  rights  as  a 
woman,  I  do  not  want  democracy.”  In  one  sentence, 
Ms. Ben Hamida defined one of the key challenges we 
face. 

The  call  from  the  streets  of  the  Arab  world  for 
freedom  and  democracy  has  brought  about  great 
change.  It  has  inspired  people  around  the  world  to 
claim their rights.  

But  huge  challenges  remain.  And  the  severe 
financial and economic crisis is threatening growth and 
trade  around  the  globe.  This  crisis  is  undermining 
people’s  ability  to  earn  a  living  and  enjoy  freedom  to 
the  fullest  extent.  It  is  thus  crucial  that  we  manage 
these developments.  
The  United  Nations  and  individual  Governments 

must support people’s calls for freedom. Freedom is a 
right  for  everyone,  a  duty  for  Governments  and  the 
mission  of  the  United  Nations.  Freedom  must  be 
supported  by  three  key  pillars:  first,  security;  second, 
democracy and the rule of law; and third, prosperity. 

Lack  of  security  is  a  fundamental  threat  to 
people’s freedom. Providing security is a responsibility 
of Governments and of the international community as 
a whole. 

In  March  this  year,  we  rose  to  the  challenge. 
Security Council resolution 1973 (2011) on Libya was 
truly historic. It explicitly referred to the international 
community’s  responsibility  to  protect.  It  highlighted 
the indispensable role of the United Nations. 
to  reach 

the  Council’s  failure 
consensus  on  Syria  has  been  at  great  human  cost. 
Every day we are shocked by new, horrific stories. This 
very  weekend  peaceful  demonstrators  were  carrying  a 
sign that read: “Help Syria. It is bleeding.” We need to 
listen to the people of Syria. We need to stop President 
Al-Assad’s  Government  from  brutally  murdering  his 
own citizens in an attempt to crush their legitimate call 
for  freedom.  I  urge  all  members  of  the  Security 
Council  to  act  decisively  and  agree  on  targeted 
sanctions against the regime. 

Freedom  and  security  are  also  key  issues  in  the 
Middle  East  peace  process.  If  we  do  want  peace,  we 
need direct negotiations now, not new resolutions at the 
United  Nations.  The  Netherlands  endorses  the  time 
frame outlined by the Quartet and stands ready to assist 
wherever  it  can.  We  are  a  major  donor  to  the 
Palestinian Authority. We fully support the ambition of 
By  contrast, 
the Palestinian people to build a viable, democratic and 
peaceful  Palestinian  State.  However,  this  cannot  be 
viewed  separately  from  the  Israeli  people’s  desire  to 
live in a secure, internationally recognized Jewish State 
in peace with their neighbours.  

It is really essential that the two parties invest in 
mutual  confidence,  refrain  from  unilateral  steps  and 
find  a  solution  together.  They  should  be  prepared  to 
make  the  difficult  and  painful  concessions  necessary 
for the fulfilment of their peoples’ aspirations. I talked 
with  President  Abbas.  I  talked  with  Prime  Minister 
Netanyahu. I listened carefully to what they had to say, 
and  the  message  is  simple  and  clear:  negotiate, 
negotiate, negotiate. 

Mr.  Thomson  (Fiji),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

Democracy  and  the  rule  of  law  are  the  best 
guarantees for freedom, but they require hard work. As 
Francis  Fukuyama  put  it,  democracy  is  more  than  the 
majority  voting  in  elections.  It  is  a  complex  set  of 
institutions  that  restrain  and  regularize  the  exercise  of 
power  through  law  and  a  system  of  checks  and 
balances. That is what it is about.  

I  admire  the  tremendous  courage  that  people, 
young  and  old,  have  shown  to  claim  their  individual 
liberty  and  democratic  rights.  We  must  support  their 
efforts to build truly democratic societies governed by 
the  rule  of  law.  The  United  Nations  should  play  a 
leading  role  by  helping  with  institution-building  and 
developing the rule of law. To that effect, Slovakia and 
the  Netherlands,  for  their  part,  are  co-chairing  the 
Community  of  Democracies’ 
is 
supporting Tunisia’s democratic transition. 

The international community should also support 
internet  access  that  is  free  and  uncensored. This  is  an 
essential  tool  for  people  to  exercise  their  freedom  of 
expression, and we should take great care to make sure 
they can use it. Countries supporting this cause should 
really unite around it. 

As Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon recently said, 
“Countries  do  not  become  fit  for  democracy;  they 
become fit through democracy.”  
Democracy  means  freedom  and  equal  rights  for 

everyone. 
to  empower 
women.  Women  represent  50  per  cent  of  the  world’s 
human capital. It is in every country’s  own interest to 
ensure  that  women  take  an  active  role  in  society  and 
It  provides  opportunities 
task 
force 
that 
16 

11-51390 
access 
is 
revert 
crucial 
for  private 


the  economy  as  well  as  in  the  political  process  in  the 
political  power  structures.  I  am  convinced  that  in  free 
and  fair  elections,  extremists  who  want  to  take  away 
women’s rights will not succeed.  

Real  democracy  also  means  that  the  rights  of 
religious  groups,  including  Christians,  are  respected. 
Society  as  a  whole  should  be  tolerant  towards  those 
with  other  religions  and  beliefs.  There  should  be  no 
doubt about that. 

Freedom  offers  the  best  route  to  prosperity.  The 
ongoing  global  economic  crisis  is  affecting  prosperity 
everywhere in our world. 
Enabling free trade is vital to economic recovery. 

Market 
sector 
development.  Breaking  down  the  barriers  to  trade  in 
agricultural products can galvanize entrepreneurship in 
the  countries  that  really  need  it  the  most.  The  Arab 
region  in  particular  should  benefit  from  enhanced 
export opportunities to the European Union.  

The  beauty  of  well-regulated  free  trade  is  that  it 
is  not  a  zero-sum  game;  it  benefits  everyone  and  it  is 
part  and  parcel  of  freedom.  This  is  why  the  World 
Trade Organization (WTO) Doha Round must succeed. 
The  world 
to 
protectionism. The WTO has an important part to play 
in  preventing 
is  also 
ambitiously  negotiating  free  trade  agreements  with 
various partners. Of course, these agreements should fit 
within the multilateral system. 

Free  trade  leads  to  economic  growth,  which  in 
turn  should  also  benefit  the  poorest  countries  in  this 
world.  To  further  support  their  growth,  we  should 
enhance  their  access  to  education,  vocational  training 
and microfinance for women and the poor. 

Freedom  belongs  to  us  all.  Those  who  have 
fought  to  gain  their  freedom  will  never  give  it  up. 
Freedom  must  be 
security, 
democracy and the rule of law, and prosperity. We can 
achieve  this  through  the  efforts  of  Member  States. 
Since  the  United  Nations  is  the  international  forum 
where global issues and actors come together, it is here 
at the United Nations that we must join forces. We are 
witnessing  international  developments  unfolding  more 
rapidly than ever before. The United Nations needs to 
adapt  to  maintain  its  important  role  in  international 
relations. 
this.  The  European  Union 
should  not  and  cannot 
supported 
through 
A/66/PV.26
the 
laid 
foundation 

For  that  matter,  the  Security  Council  should 
better  reflect  changing  international  relations  and 
economic realities. The Netherlands supports a modest 
enlargement  of  the  Security  Council,  but  with  a  limit 
on  the  right  of  veto  in  order  not  to  undermine  the 
effectiveness of the Council’s decision-making process. 

The Netherlands supports the Secretary-General’s 
drive for budgetary discipline. We have to make careful 
choices  about  what  to  finance  and  what  not  to.  I  also 
urge  emerging  economies  to  take  their  share  of 
responsibility  for  the  sustainability  of  United  Nations 
funding. 

The  United  Nations  has  an  essential  role  in 
fostering the rule of law around the world, as well as in 
preventative  diplomacy  and  mediation.  The  Netherlands 
will  play  its  part,  including  through  the  role  of  The 
Hague  as  the  international  city  of  peace  and  justice. 
The Peace Palace, the international courts and the legal 
institutions  attest to our long tradition of international 
law and active role in its practice. That tradition, may I 
say,  goes  back  to  Grotius’s  early  seventeenth-century 
Mare  Liberum,  which 
for 
international law. 

I  would  like  to  congratulate  Secretary-General 
Ban  Ki-moon  on  his  reappointment.  I  call  on  him  to 
use the overwhelming support for his second term as a 
mandate  to  reform  the  United  Nations.  A  strong  and 
active United Nations is  essential in  a world in which 
no  country  can  shape  the  future  single-handedly.  To 
succeed,  public  support  for  the  United  Nations  is 
crucial.  Clear  and  tangible  results  are  necessary  to 
sustain the commitment of Governments to the United 
Nations. An effective and efficient United Nations is in 
the  national  interests  of  all  its  Member  States,  and  is, 
indeed, essential for freedom throughout the world. 

Through our efforts at the United Nations, we can 
support  the  calls  for  freedom  around  the  world. Then, 
on  my  next  visit  to  Tunisia,  Essma  Ben  Hamida,  a 
strong-willed  woman,  can  hopefully  tell  me  that 
freedom has brought her both democracy and her rights 
and empowerment as a woman. 
The  Acting  President: I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency Mr. Ali Ahmed Karti, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of the Sudan.   
Mr. Karti (Sudan) (spoke in Arabic): It is indeed 

an honour and a source of pride to see our sister State 
of  Qatar  represented  in  the  good  person  of  the 
11-51390 

17 
A/66/PV.26 

President  leading  this  year’s  session  of  the  General 
Assembly.  His  election  was  certainly  the  right  choice 
given his commendable initiatives and contributions to 
maintaining  peace  and  security,  both  regionally  and 
internationally,  which  bear  out  his  qualifications  and 
capabilities. Indeed, we congratulate him on assuming 
his  post.  Through  you,  Sir,  may  I  also  convey  my 
congratulations  and  gratitude  to  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss, 
President of the Assembly at its sixty-fifth session.  
We would also like to congratulate His Excellency 

the Secretary-General on his reappointment. We commend 
him and his colleagues on their admirable efforts in the 
various  areas  in  which  the  Organization  is  active.  We 
hope  that  our  deliberations  this  year  will  benefit 
humankind  and  serve  to  promote  peace,  harmony  and 
cooperation among peoples and nations.  

I  address  the  Assembly  today  as  the  Sudan 
approaches  the  international  community  with  new 
momentum,  having  recently  provided  an  exemplary 
model  in  choosing  peace  and  stability,  even  though 
their  price  entailed  sacrificing  a  dear  part  of  our 
country’s  territory.  During  the  past  six  years,  the 
international community has followed the Government 
of the Sudan’s degree of commitment to the choice of 
peace 
the 
Comprehensive Peace Agreement, which we concluded 
and signed on 9 January 2005.  

Despite  the  obstacles  and  challenges  facing  the 
implementation  of  the  Agreement  from  the  start,  we 
have continued to implement it with perseverance and 
patience.  That  culminated  in  the  holding  of  the 
referendum  on  the  self-determination  of  South  Sudan 
and,  eventually,  the  acceptance  of  its  result.  We  were 
the  first  country  to  recognize  the  nascent  Republic  of 
South  Sudan,  extending  a  hand  of  cooperation  and 
brotherhood to it.  

The  international  community  has  also  followed 
the historic visit that our country’s President, Mr. Omer 
Hassan Al-Bashir, paid to the city of Juba prior to the 
holding of the referendum, as well as his participation 
in  the  celebrations  declaring  the  establishment  of  the 
State  of  South  Sudan  on  9  July.  His  address  on  that 
occasion  outlined 
that 
established 
the  basis  of  our  warm  and  friendly 
relations,  discarding  the  negative  atmosphere  and 
bitterness of the past  and looking towards the broader 
horizons of cooperation and communication that serve 
the  interests  of  that  country’s  brotherly  people.  From 
the  guiding  principles 
implementation 
through 
the 
of 

the 
and 
political 
boundaries 
this rostrum, we reiterate our commitment to that spirit. 
We  also  reiterate  our  congratulations  to  the  State  of 
South  Sudan  as  it  takes  its  place  among  the  Members 
of the United Nations.  
Allow me to take this opportunity to welcome the 

National  Transitional  Council  as 
legitimate 
representative  of  the  brotherly  people  of  Libya  at  the 
United  Nations,  following  the  revolution  that  Libya 
experienced and the changes it has brought about. 

The separation leading to the establishment of the 
independent  State  of  South  Sudan  does  not  mean  a 
definitive divorce, in particular as we live in an era of 
globalization  and  State  alliances  and  groupings  that 
transcend 
traditional 
frameworks.  Moreover,  until  recently  our  two  peoples 
were  one,  connected  by  common  denominators  and 
various historical, cultural and social ties. 

Given  those  facts,  we  are  resolute  in  our  full 
commitment  to  settling  all  outstanding  issues  with 
regard  to  the  implementation  of  the  Comprehensive 
Peace Agreement,  including  the  situation  in  the Abyei 
region,  in  order  to  complete  the  border  demarcation 
and  the  necessary  joint  measures  and  mechanisms 
required  to  monitor  the  border  and  address  economic 
issues, including access to oil and oil revenues.  

We also affirm that we are committed to reaching 
security and political arrangements that address all the 
recent  tensions  in  Southern  Kordofan  and  Blue  Nile 
states. As I have said before, we accepted the choice of 
separation  not  because  we  were  bored  with  unity,  for 
we  had  paid  dearly  for  that  unity,  but  because  we 
wanted  sustainable  peace  and  stability.  It  is  therefore 
unacceptable  and  irrational  to  accept  any  proxy  war 
that  destabilizes  those  two  states,  or  any  other  border 
area between them. That will require understanding of 
the  joint  vision  that  takes  into  account  the  special 
characteristics  of  the  demographic  character  of  the 
region  and  the  interaction  among  the  tribes  in  those 
areas. 

With  regard  to  the  situation  in  Darfur,  the  most 
recent peace negotiations in the sisterly State of Qatar 
concluded with the signing of the Doha Document for 
Peace in Darfur, which was accepted and supported by 
the  various  groups 
in  Darfur.  That  support  was 
evidenced  by  the  broad  participation  in  the  all-Darfur 
stakeholders  conference,  which  was  held  in  May  and 
attended  by  representatives  of  internally  displaced 
persons,  civil  society  and  leaders  from  the  legislative, 
18 

11-51390 
to 
the 
is  aware, 
contributed 
resettlement  of 


political  and  executive  branches,  as  well  as  tribal  and 
political party leaders, elders and local administration. 
The conference adopted the Doha Document for Peace 
in Darfur because it responded to all of the aspirations 
of the people of Darfur in terms of peace, development, 
stability,  justice  and  political  participation.  As  the 
Assembly 
the  Document  has  received 
considerable support from the international community.  

I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  reiterate  our 
appreciation  to  our  sister  State  of  Qatar,  the  African 
Union  and 
the  League  of  Arab  States,  which 
spearheaded  this  initiative.  We  also  wish  to  thank  the 
Joint  Mediation  Support  Team  and  all  regional  and 
international  partners  who 
the 
agreement.  From  this  rostrum,  I  again  emphasize  that 
we will continue to implement our national strategy on 
Darfur  on  the  basis  of  its  five  pillars:  security, 
development, 
refugees  and 
internally displaced persons, internal reconciliation and 
a comprehensive political settlement. We will give top 
priority to completing the return of internally displaced 
persons  and refugees and to creating stable conditions 
for 
them  through  development,  rehabilitation  and 
reconstruction projects.  

We  expected  the  Secretary-General  to  include  a 
special  paragraph  in  his  statement  to  illustrate  my 
Government’s  commitment 
to  peace,  which  was 
evident  from  the  signing  of  the  Comprehensive  Peace 
Agreement  and  the  declaration  of  the  Republic  of 
South  Sudan,  which  my  Government  was  first  to 
recognize  as  a  State.  We  call  on  our  international 
Organization  not  to  be  hoodwinked  by  the  policies  of 
some countries, which refuse to give credit where it is 
due.  The  Sudanese  leadership,  headed  by  President 
Omer Hassan Ahmad Al-Bashir, enabled the people of 
the  South  to  exercise  their  right  to  self-determination. 
It made a commitment to do so because of its desire for 
peace and stability. Consequently, it is a leadership that 
deserves  respect  and  appreciation,  not  to  be  the  target 
of attempts at incrimination or of the arbitrary levelling 
of  accusations,  for  example,  by  the  International 
Criminal Court.  
I need not recall the fact that the President is the 

the  Sudan  and  was 
leader  of 
legitimately  elected  in  fair  and  transparent  elections 
conducted  under  the  supervision  of  international  and 
regional  bodies.  Moreover, 
and 
unjustified  economic  sanctions  adopted  by  the  United 
States of America against the Sudan in order to weaken 
the  Republic  of 
the  unilateral 
A/66/PV.26
to 
the 
forward 
the  contribution  of 
from  conflict  and  moving 
it and erode its development revival are but unjust and 
coercive  measures  against  the  people  of  the  Sudan. 
This is happening at a time when we aspire to have the 
support  of  the  international  community  as  we  move 
towards  that  goal  more  openly  and  with  greater 
determination to fulfil our natural role as an active and 
pioneering member of the international family.  
As  a  State  emerging  from  conflict,  we  look 

forward 
international 
community  and  its  financial  institutions  in  terms  of 
debt forgiveness and support for development projects. 
That  would  be  consistent  with  the  measures  being 
applied  to  all  least  developed  countries,  as  well  as  to 
those  emerging 
into 
peacebuilding,  which  has  now  become  a  reality.  The 
World  Bank  has  put 
these  and  other 
requirements,  and  has  stated  that  my  country  has 
indeed demonstrated compliance in that regard. 

Similarly,  from  this  rostrum,  we  call  on  all 
investors, without exception, to try to benefit from the 
Sudan  and  its  promising  resources,  especially  those 
other  than  oil,  such  as  mineral  resources  and  metals. 
We  urge  them  to  invest  in  the  Sudan’s  agricultural 
resources,  taking  into  consideration  the  extent  of  the 
country’s  arable 
its  significant  water 
resources. This is particularly important in the light of 
the  food  crises,  famines  resulting  from  drought  and 
desertification,  and  the  urgent  global  need  for  cereals 
and  grains.  The  Sudan’s  investment  law  has  provided 
all necessary facilities to all foreign investors. 

The  international  financial  and  economic  crisis 
has adversely affected most countries  of the world. In 
the  countries  of  Africa, 
the  crisis  has  notably 
intensified and exacerbated the difficulties plaguing the 
economies of developing nations, resulting in increased 
poverty  and  food  shortages  and  the  decline  of  social 
services.  

At  a  time  when  climate  change  is  leading  to 
natural  disasters  in  many  countries,  I  call  on  the 
General Assembly,  all  donors  and  the  relevant  United 
Nations  agencies,  funds  and  programmes  to  respond 
urgently  to  the  devastating  famine  and  the  attendant 
tragic  humanitarian  situation,  which  is  affecting  some 
of  our  sister  republics  in  the  Horn  of  Africa,  in 
particular Somalia. 

We  also  wish  to  highlight  the  importance  of 
giving  issues  affecting  the  African  continent  a  high 
priority  on  the  development  agenda  of  the  United 
land  and 
11-51390 

19 

in 
arrangements 
strengthening 
A/66/PV.26 

Nations,  with  a  view  to  supporting  and  building  the 
capacities of African economic institutions. This could 
be  accomplished  by  reactivating  the  New  Partnership 
for  Africa’s  Development  initiative.  Priority,  support 
and  financing  should  be  given  to  projects  aimed  at 
combating  poverty  and  endemic  diseases  on 
the 
continent, as well as to the relevant programmes linked 
to  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  

Since  development  and  peace  go  hand  in  hand, 
we wish to emphasize the importance of supporting the 
institutions  of  the African  Union,  especially  its  Peace 
and Security Council and its other various mechanisms, 
to build early-warning conflict prevention capacities. I 
need  not  mention  that  Chapter  VIII  of  the  United 
Nations  Charter  clearly  emphasizes  the  importance  of 
regional 
and 
maintaining international peace and security.  

We  also  wish  to  emphasize  the  importance  of 
activating  preventive  diplomacy  mechanisms  and 
African peacemaking efforts. I refer in particular to the 
experience  of  the  Panel  of  the  Wise  of  the  African 
Union,  headed  by  former  South  African  President 
Thabo Mbeki, which is playing a commendable role in 
the  Sudan. This  attests to  the  effectiveness of the  role 
of  regional  bodies  in  settling  disputes  and  achieving 
peace and security in African countries. 

The Sudan had hoped for international consensus 
on  climate  and  environment  issues,  in  particular 
because we have been directly affected by them, as has 
clearly been the case in Darfur. United Nations reports 
have emphasized the relationship between the negative 
impact  of  climate  change  and  the  intensification  of 
conflict,  especially  on  the  African  continent.  We  had 
also hoped that the efforts made in Copenhagen would 
have been successful  and led to an agreement on how 
to  address  this  phenomenon  and  avoid  its  negative 
consequences.  

We had hoped, too, that developed nations would 
assume  their  historic  responsibilities  in  that  regard  by 
adopting  specific  strategies  and  action  plans  to  tackle 
the  root  causes  of  climate  change  in  a  manner 
consistent  with  the  Rio  Declaration  on  Environment 
and  Development,  adopted  at  the  Earth  Summit  in 
1992.  The  Sudan  attaches  the  highest  priority  to  the 
implementation  of  a  series  of  national  programmes 
designed  to  alleviate  the  consequences  of  climate 
change and to raise awareness as to its dire effects. 
nations 
in 
therefore 
fully 
particular, 
developing 
The  Sudan 

The Sudan looks forward to participating actively 
and  effectively  in  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable Development to be held next year, in order 
to  help  strengthen  international  efforts  to  face  the 
challenges  of 
sustainable  development  with  a 
collective will that reflects the aspirations of the whole 
world, 
for 
development and a decent life for their peoples. 

Various  entities  of  the  United  Nations,  including 
the  Security  Council,  have  adopted  dozens  of 
resolutions regarding the question of Palestine, none of 
which  have  been  implemented.  This  is  because  of 
Israel’s blatant defiance of the international community 
and  because  of  the  support  and  protection  it  enjoys 
from  some  powerful  countries. This  demonstrates  that 
the  Organization  is  incapable  of  standing  up  for  the 
rights of peoples and to support their legitimate claims, 
as  enshrined  in  the  Charter.  That  has  given  the  green 
light to the occupying authorities to continue with their 
settlement policies that seek to entrench the occupation 
and  banish  the  Palestinian  people,  the  owners  of  the 
land. 

the 
Palestinian National Authority’s decision to request full 
membership of the United Nations, which is their legal 
right,  based  on  the  right  to  self-determination,  one  of 
the  principles  of  international  law.  Moreover,  the 
Palestinians’  request  for  recognition  as  a  State  is  a 
legitimate  right  that  seeks  to  confirm  that,  first,  the 
United  Nations  is  committed  to  its  Charter  and, 
secondly, to international law. This would also help to 
alleviate  tensions  in  the  region.  The  international 
community should consider the  fact that there may be 
no  one  to  negotiate  with  if  it  allows  Israel  to  impose 
conditions on the world and to deprive the Palestinians 
of their legitimate rights. 

In  conclusion,  the  reform  of  the  United  Nations, 
and  in  particular  of  the  Security  Council,  is  an  urgent 
and  compelling  priority  requiring  speedy  action. 
Without  efforts  to  reform  the  Organization  and  its 
various entities, we will weaken the role of developing 
nations  and  have  a  negative  effect  on  their  national 
interests.  This  will  also  allow  bodies  such  as  the 
Security  Council  to  become  a  channel  through  which 
particular countries impose their own political agendas, 
especially  with  regard  to  international  peace  and 
security.  Genuine  reform  of  the  Security  Council  and 
its  working  methods  is  therefore  the  only  way  to 
prevent it from being exploited by some countries in a 
supports 
20 

11-51390 
peace 
and 
requires  cooperation  and 
the  Organization,  whose 


manner  that  could  cast  doubt  on  the  credibility  and 
neutrality  of 
founders 
carefully drafted its Charter so as to make it the widest 
possible  forum  for  consultation  and  debate  —  debate 
that 
interaction  among 
peoples,  nations,  cultures  and  civilizations  in  order  to 
create a world in which values such as freedom, peace, 
security and justice can prevail. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency Mr. Manuel Salvador dos Ramos, Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Communities  of 
the 
Democratic Republic of Sao Tome and Principe. 
Mr.  Salvador  dos  Ramos  (Sao  Tome  and 

Principe)  (spoke  in  Portuguese;  English  text  provided 
by  the  delegation):  The  Democratic  Republic  of  Sao 
Tome  and  Principe  joins  other  speakers  at  this  global 
forum in congratulating the President on his election to 
lead  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session. 
His election is the acknowledgment by Member States 
of  the  more  than  30  years’  experience  that  he  and  his 
country,  Qatar,  have  given  in  service  of  promoting 
and 
international 
sustainable 
development 
dynamic,  multidimensional 
cooperation among developing countries, as well as in 
continuing  the  search  for  solutions  to  the  challenges 
facing multilateral diplomacy today. 

the 
significance of the theme of this session, “The role of 
mediation 
through  peaceful 
means”,  whose  relevance  and  timeliness  merit  the 
attention of all of us here and can help ensure that the 
outcome of our collective  discussions will support the 
United  Nations  in  its  effective  guidance  of  global 
democratic  governance  and  in  implementing  coherent 
and  consistent  mechanisms  aimed  at  achieving  lasting 
peace and a more secure world. 

We further congratulate Mr. Ban Ki-moon on his 
reappointment  to  the  post  of  Secretary-General,  and 
thank  him  for  the  effort  and  skill  with  which  he  has 
guided 
the  Organization,  whose  challenges  and 
responsibilities  seem  more  pressing  than  ever  in  the 
current international context. We would also like to pay 
tribute  to  the  outgoing  President,  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss  of 
Switzerland,  who  carried  out  his  duties  with  zeal  and 
dedication during the past year. 

The theme of this session of the Assembly gives 
us  an  opportunity  to  reflect  deeply  together  on  the 
impact  of  international  mediation  on  the  resolution  of 
We  also  congratulate 
in  conflict  resolution 
the  President  on 
security, 
A/66/PV.26
that 
therefore 
remind  us 
conflicts  in  various  regions  of  our  planet.  We  would 
like  to  bring  to  this  reflection  a  discussion  of  the 
central  role  that  the  United  Nations  should  play  in 
mediating such conflicts. This exercise should help us 
formulate  concrete  proposals  for  strengthening  the 
capabilities of our Organization in this area. 

Mediation  as  a  method  of  resolving  conflicts 
between States began to be used in 1907 in the form of 
good offices and mediation on the basis of The Hague 
Convention for the peaceful regulation of international 
conflicts.  United  Nations  reports  on  peacekeeping 
operations  should 
the 
restoration  of  peace  focuses  on  ongoing  conflicts  and 
strives  to  de-escalate  them  through  diplomacy  and 
mediation.  The  widespread  use  of 
international 
mediation to resolve crises as a fundamental technique 
of peaceful conflict resolution has not always matched 
our expectations or produced the expected results. 

It  is  for  that  reason  that  Sao  Tome  and  Principe 
believes  that  rather  than  settling  for  its  role  in 
peacekeeping,  international  mediation  must  evolve  to 
become a fundamental factor in peacebuilding. In that 
regard,  the  United  Nations  should  be  responsible  for 
dealing with what appears today to be a trend towards 
international  mediation, 
the  professionalization  of 
which 
legal 
instruments  ratified  by  specialized  institutions  to  deal 
with  a  given  conflict.  Defining  the  legal  status  of  the 
mediator and the methodology of mediation, as well as 
greater  involvement  by  diplomats  and  experts  with 
experience  in  international  law,  seems  to  us  to  be 
necessary  and  important  steps  that  the  United  Nations 
should take in the future. 

The State of Sao Tome and Principe has followed 
with  concern  the  growing  international  climate  of 
tension,  characterized  by  proliferating  claims 
in 
various regions, some of them violent and destructive. 
Our  concern  is  all  the  more  worrisome  given  our 
distinct 
the 
mechanisms available to the United Nations for dealing 
with such matters effectively and accurately are pushed 
into  the  background.  We  regret  the  absence  of  a 
responsible partnership between the African Union and 
the  Security  Council  designed  to  resolve  the  crisis  in 
Libya. 
It  is  therefore  urgent  that  we  strengthen  the  role 

of 
the  United  Nations  by  reforming 
the  entire 
system —  a  process  that  should  not  drag  on.  This 
in  such  circumstances 
the  background 
relegates 
feeling 
to 
the 
that 
11-51390 

21 

its  people  on 
A/66/PV.26 

reform  should  include  the  Security  Council  and  some 
of  the  specialized  agencies  of  the  United  Nations, 
aligning them with the aspirations and demands of the 
modern world. 

On 9 July, Africa saw the birth of one more free 
and independent nation: the Republic of South Sudan. 
The  Democratic  Republic  of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe, 
which  has  already  recognized  the  brotherly  State  of 
South  Sudan,  congratulates 
this 
achievement  and  wishes  its  leaders  every  success  in 
building  a  peaceful  and  prosperous  nation.  Similarly, 
we  appeal  to  the  entire  international  community  to 
make  a  joint  effort  to  support  the  new  authorities  and 
political actors of that country in order to maintain the 
national sovereignty of the new State and to promote a 
climate of national unity and political stability. 

East Africa is facing a serious food crisis caused 
by phenomena that are beyond the control of men and 
by  the  political  and  military  conflict  still  raging  in 
parts  of  Somalia.  It  is  incumbent  upon  us  all  to 
contribute without delay to finding a lasting solution to 
this  serious  situation.  The  Government  of  Sao  Tome 
and  Principe  proclaims  its  readiness  to  participate  in 
activities contributing to the alleviation of the suffering 
of the people of that region. We join other Members of 
the  United  Nations  in  appealing  to  the  international 
community  to  provide  more  financial  resources  to 
support efforts to normalize the situation in the region. 
In the particular case of Somalia, we would appeal for 
an increase in official development assistance. 

The United Nations is still addressing the pending 
question of the Western Sahara and has adopted several 
resolutions  aimed  at  settling  the  conflict  between  the 
Kingdom  of  Morocco  and  the  Frente  Polisario.  Sao 
Tome and Principe would like to see the two parties sit 
at the negotiating table and urges the United Nations to 
proceed with the population census, in accordance with 
its own resolutions, with a view to completing this long 
process of negotiation. 

Democracy  has  the  virtue  of  giving  a  voice  to 
people  so  they  can  choose  their  leaders  through 
popular, free, direct and transparent elections by secret 
ballots cast in voting booths. The uprisings that started 
in  January 
the 
sentiments and will of the people of Tunisia, Egypt and 
Libya to turn the page of their contemporary history. It 
is  in  this  conviction  that  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
Sao Tome  and  Principe  recognizes  the  new  governing 
in  North  Africa  have  expressed 
in 
these 
countries 
the 
as 
legitimate 
We  welcome 
the  presence  of 
authorities 
representatives of their peoples.  

the  National 
Transitional  Council  within  the  United  Nations,  and 
urge  the  authorities  of  that  country  to  conduct  an 
inclusive  process  of  peaceful  transition  to  ensure 
peace,  stability  and  social  progress  in  that  part  of 
Africa.  Furthermore,  our  country  is  of  the  view  that 
political  changes  should  take  place  not  under  violent 
circumstances,  but  without  any  pressure  or  political 
interference. 

The  Middle  East  continues  to  be  shaken  by  an 
unprecedented wave of conflicts  within the borders  of 
some  Middle  Eastern  countries  as  well  as  in  the 
broader  region.  The  people  of  Syria,  Yemen  and 
Bahrain  have  demanded  reforms  in  State  institutions. 
However,  we  see 
Israeli-Palestinian  conflict 
continue.  We  reaffirm  our  support  for  the  Palestinian 
people’s right to guide their destiny, and we advocate, 
in  accordance  with 
the  relevant  United  Nations 
resolutions, for the existence of a Jewish State. We take 
this  opportunity  to  appeal  to  the  Government  of  the 
United  States  of America  and  the  European  Union  to 
exert their influence to persuade the Government of the 
State  of  Israel  to  stop  building  settlements  in  the 
occupied territories. 

The trade embargo imposed on Cuba decades ago 
is a major concern for our countries, and for Sao Tome 
and  Principe  in  particular.  We  urge  the  lifting  of  the 
sanctions so that Cuba can participate on equal footing 
with  other  States  in  the  process  of  building  an 
international society that is more balanced and fair. 

the  sustainable 
development of our countries. The threats emerging in 
the  world  today  —  particularly  transnational  crime, 
piracy, 
the  sale  of  weapons  and 
drugs — are a real source of concern for Sao Tome and 
Principe,  a  country  with  extensive  sea  borders  in  the 
Gulf  of  Guinea.  These  phenomena  are  threats  that 
cannot  be ignored  and  require greater interaction  with 
the Member States with which we share these extensive 
maritime borders. They also require our commitment to 
conflict  prevention,  management  and 
resolution 
mechanisms, based on efforts to fight organized crime 
and with a view to ensuring our collective security. 

In  this  connection,  we  highlight  the  fact  that  the 
32nd meeting of the United Nations Standing Advisory 
Committee  on  Security  Questions  in  Central  Africa, 
Global  security 
trafficking  and 
is  vital 
to 
22 

11-51390 
in 
for 
The 
profound 
changes  wrought 
the  United  Nations  Office 


organized  by 
for 
Disarmament  Affairs  through  its  Regional  Centre  for 
Peace and Disarmament in Africa in Lomé, was held in 
Sao Tome and Principe in March. 

On  behalf  of  the  Government  of  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe,  I  would  like  to 
thank  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  timely 
and  correct  decision  to  give  Africa  its  own  central 
Office, which we believe will contribute greatly to the 
promotion  and  development  of  actions  to  prevent, 
manage  and  resolve  conflicts  in  the  region  and  will 
assist  countries  of  the  region  in  coping  with  possible 
threats to their sovereignty. 

the 
international  political  scene,  resulting  from  structural 
changes in the world economy, pose new challenges to 
countries  like  Sao  Tome  and  Principe.  My  country,  a 
micro-island  State,  advocates  greater  access  to  the 
various  opportunities  available  at  the  international 
level,  in  particular  the  possibility  of  obtaining  more 
official development assistance and facilities to attract 
foreign investment. 
It is our collective responsibility to take measures 

to  address  the  harmful  effects  of  climate  change  and 
the  clean  development 
ensure 
mechanism,  particularly 
least  developed 
countries.  We  appreciate  the  political  willingness  of 
Member  States  to  further  pursue  the  building  of  the 
necessary  consensus to  achieve significant and legally 
binding  results  in  Durban,  South  Africa,  at  the  next 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change, 
thus 
guaranteeing  the  second  commitment  period  of  the 
Kyoto Protocol. 
However,  climate  change  has  caused  imbalances 

in  the  microclimate  of  our  country,  with  drastic 
consequences  for  our  domestic  production,  thereby 
threatening the food security in Sao Tome and Principe. 
From  this  perspective,  and  in  order  to  combat  this 
scourge, civil society in Sao Tome has been advocating 
the need to enhance the study of the causes and adverse 
effects of climate change in Sao Tome and Principe. To 
fulfil  this  goal,  the  authorities  of  my  country  would 
like to continue to rely on the invaluable collaboration 
and availability expressed thus far by the international 
community  in  general  and  the  specialized  entities  of 
the United Nations in particular. 
the  continuity  of 
the 
A/66/PV.26
to 
the 
substantial 
contribution 
I  cannot  end  this  speech  without  addressing  the 

situation of the two straits.  

Taking  into  account  that  has  Taiwan  not  only 
enormous  potential,  but  also  a  population  of  around 
23 million  people,  its  participation  in  United  Nations 
specialized  agencies,  as  has  been  the  case  since  2009 
with respect to the World Health Assembly, could make 
a 
international 
community. In this regard, we urge the relevant United 
Nations  bodies  to  seek  ways  and  means  to  ensure  the 
participation of Taiwan in some of the mechanisms and 
agencies of the United Nations system, in particular the 
International  Civil  Aviation  Organization  and 
the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change. 

The  Democratic  Republic  of  Sao  Tome  and 
Principe  has  just  concluded  the  consolidation  of  its 
democratic process and transition of power through an 
election  by  universal  suffrage,  which  was  direct  and 
anonymous.  The  President-elect 
took  office  on 
3 September. Domestically, our Government is working 
to  reduce  poverty  and  promote  economic  growth  and 
institutional reform, particularly in the  area  of  justice, 
in  order  to  strengthen  the  capacities  of  the  country’s 
democratic institutions and development. 
With  regard  to  the  Millennium  Development 

Goals  set  by 
the 
Democratic  Republic  of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  has 
made  significant  progress,  particularly  in  the  areas  of 
education  and  health.  We  recognize,  however,  that 
greater  efforts  should  be  made  to  attain  the  desired 
objectives. In that regard, our State wishes to continue 
to benefit from the continued and multifaceted support 
of the international community. 
the 
to  reiterate 

To  conclude,  I  would 
readiness  of 
the  Democratic 
Republic  of  Sao  Tome  and  Principe  to  participate  in 
efforts to mobilize our collective will and our synergies 
in  pursuit  of  the  noble  principles  and  objectives  that 
underpin the creation of the United Nations. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Mohamed  Mouldi  Kefi,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Tunisia. 
Mr.  Kefi  (Tunisia)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  First,  I 

would like to extend to Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser 
and  our  brotherly  country,  Qatar,  my 
sincere 
congratulations  on  his  election  as  President  of  the 
like 
the  Government  of 
the  United  Nations  for  2015, 
11-51390 

23 

the  United  Nations  and  wish 
tireless  efforts  as  President  at 
A/66/PV.26 

General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session.  We  are 
deeply confident that he will contribute actively to the 
success  of  its  work.  I  would  also  like  to  express  my 
gratitude  and  appreciation  to  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss  for  his 
laudable  and 
the 
preceding session of the Assembly.  

I  take  this  opportunity  to  again  congratulate 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  on  his  reappointment 
to  a  second  term.  We  are  ready  and  determined  to 
provide  all  possible  support  to  ensure  the  success  of 
the  plan,  to  be  announced  in  the  coming  weeks, 
detailing his vision of the priorities of the Organization 
over the next five years. 

On  behalf  of  my  country,  Tunisia,  I  would  like 
also  to  welcome  the  sisterly  Republic  of  South  Sudan 
to 
the  new  State 
prosperity and progress and its leaders great success in 
their noble mission. 
Allow me to pay tribute from this rostrum to the 

memory  of  the  martyrs  and  youths  of  Tunisia’s  valid 
and  peaceful  revolution,  a  revolution  for  freedom  and 
dignity that brought the Arab Spring to the world. This 
historic event infused new hope into the conscience of 
humankind,  which  yearns  for  justice  and  democracy 
and  places  the  highest  value  on  freedom  and  human 
rights. 
This spontaneous revolution — which had no real 

political  or  ideological  leadership  and  did  not  involve 
any  foreign  intervention  —  has  indeed  succeeded  in 
putting an end to one of the most dictatorial regimes in 
our  region.  The  revolution  exposed  its  practices  and 
those of similar regimes, which in their hysterical lust 
for  power  blocked  all  political  views,  stifled  freedom 
of expression and deprived young people of their hope 
for  a  better  future,  self-fulfilment  and  effective 
participation in political, economic and social life. 

What  happened  in  Tunisia  is  but  the  natural 
outgrowth of decades of tension and frustration. At the 
same time, it expressed the aspirations of its people to 
live  in  dignity  and  freedom.  It  was  a  decisive  turning 
point in the country’s history that enabled us to regain 
our  natural  place  in  the  community  of  nations  and 
powers.  It  exemplified  the  strength  of  the  common 
human values of freedom, democracy, tolerance, equal 
opportunities  and  respect  for  human  rights,  in  all  of 
their aspects. 
to 
of 
civil 
society 
and 
that 
is 
It  yearns 
for 
in  a  political  system 
Today,  having  removed  all  obstacles 

its 
political,  economic,  social  and  cultural  progress, 
Tunisia is at a turning point in its history and is on the 
threshold  of  a  new  stage. 
the 
establishment  of  a  genuine  democracy,  founded  on 
strong guarantees that uphold the people’s sovereignty 
and enable them to exercise their rights and determine 
their  destiny 
truly 
pluralistic and that enjoys peaceful transition of power, 
in  accordance  with  the  objectives  of  the  glorious 
revolution  and  the  faithful  memories  of  our  brave 
martyrs. 

In seeking to achieve the goals of the revolution, 
the  provisional  Tunisian  Government  has  made  every 
effort  to  preserve  all  mechanisms  needed  to  restore 
stability  and  security  in  the  country,  ensure  the 
continuity  of  the  State  and  its  institutions  and  protect 
the interests of all segments of society.  

We  have  therefore  created  the  Higher  Authority 
for  the  Protection  of  the  Revolution,  Political  Reform 
and  Democratic  Transition.  It  brings  together  a  range 
of  political  views  and  orientations,  as  well  as 
representatives 
national 
organizations. It has been entrusted with drawing up a 
road map to ensure a successful transitional period in a 
consensus-based and harmonious atmosphere. 

The work of the Higher Authority, along with the 
consultations  it  held  with  the  various  national  parties, 
resulted  in  a  balanced  and  integrated  plan  of  action 
from the legal and practical perspectives. This strategy 
will  map  out  Tunisia’s  political  future  in  accordance 
with  the  aspirations  of  its  people  for  a  democratic, 
peaceful and quiet transition. 

The main features of this strategy were evidenced 
in  the  interim  President’s  decision  to  suspend  the 
Tunisian  Constitution,  dissolve  the  two  chambers  of 
Parliament 
a  provisional  public 
administration comprised of an interim President and a 
provisional  Government.  This  Government,  whose 
competence  and  integrity  are  well  known,  will  be 
responsible for running national affairs until a national 
constituent  assembly  is  elected. The  latter  will  draft  a 
new  constitution  and  establish  a  legal  framework  for 
the  upcoming  transitional  period  and  thereby  gain 
credibility in the eyes of the people. 

in 
preparations  for  the  national  constituent  assembly 
elections,  to  be  held  on  23  October. We  will  spare  no 
Important  strides  have 
thus  been  made 
establish 
and 
24 

11-51390 
in 
position 
a  popular, 
its  mission 
it  can  fulfil 
the  well-deserved 
We  have  established  an 


effort  to  enable  the  Tunisian  people  to  elect  their 
representatives 
free,  pluralistic, 
transparent and fair fashion. 

independent  higher 
national  authority to monitor the various stages of the 
electoral  process  and  have  endowed  it  with  the 
necessary  legal  foundations  and  financial  support  so 
that 
independently  and 
effectively  under  the  best  possible  conditions.  This 
highlights the fairness of our national approach and the 
clear vision of the political actors involved. 

In  that  respect,  it  is  worth  recalling  that  for  the 
first  time  in  its  history,  Tunisia  has  adopted  by 
consensus the principle of mandatory parity in its voter 
registries. That will enable us to maximize the potential 
of  Tunisian  society,  men  and  women  alike,  and  to 
preserve 
so 
competently  by  women  in  the  fabric  of  Tunisian 
society. My colleague, the Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of  the  Netherlands,  made  a  comment  in  that  regard  a 
few minutes ago.  

In parallel with the progress made in the political 
field,  the  provisional  Government  is  pursuing  its 
in  all  sectors  and  fields. 
comprehensive  reforms 
Upholding  human 
rights  and  protecting  public 
freedoms are the Government’s highest priorities. 
Tunisia believes deeply in the universal values of 

solidarity, justice and international cooperation. In that 
respect,  we  urgently  appeal  to  the  entire  international 
community,  including  Governments,  international  and 
regional  organizations  and  civil  society  activists,  to 
lend their support to our country’s efforts to repatriate 
the  assets  stolen  from  the  Tunisian  people  by  the 
former President and all of his family members and in-
laws. The Tunisian people have the right to those funds 
and  are  in  urgent  need  of  them  during  this  critical 
period  fraught  with  tremendous  economic  and  social 
challenges. 
Tunisia also calls on all States that have received 

requests  for  extradition  of  persons  involved  in  those 
crimes 
legitimate 
requests.  That  will  allow  Tunisian  justice  to  hold 
accountable  all  those  who  committed  crimes  against 
the  Tunisian  people,  within  the  framework  of  a  fair 
trial  that  guarantees  the  rights  of  the  defendant  under 
Tunisian law and international instruments. 
to  respond  positively 
those 
held 
to 
A/66/PV.26
task.  Creating 
in  our  endeavours 

We thank the friendly, kindred countries that have 
responded  favourably  to  those  requests.  We  hope  that 
all  States  will  efficiently  and  swiftly  respond  to 
Tunisia’s  requests,  pursuant  to  the  noble  principles  of 
international  cooperation  and  solidarity  and  to  ensure 
that  the  values  of  justice,  equality  and  fairness  before 
the law will be respected by all. 
The  Government  of  Tunisia,  with  the  support  of 

national  and 
international  economic  actors,  has 
responded  to  the  challenges  generated  by  the  delicate 
post-revolutionary  situation,  including  its  negative 
effects  on  our  national  economy.  Humanitarian  and 
economic  conditions  related  to  the  crisis  in  sisterly 
Libya  have  further  complicated  the  situation  and 
hampered  our  Government’s 
jobs, 
reducing the unemployment rate and eliminating social 
and 
economic  disparities  have  become  major 
challenges of the country. 

Tunisia  has  been  endowed  with  many  national 
assets that will enable us to achieve our goals. We face 
numerous  challenges 
for  a 
democratic  transition  and  for  economic  and  social 
development, including the economic recession, which 
is  apparent  in  certain  areas.  Therefore  our  country 
remains  in  need  of  continuous  support  and  assistance 
from the international community. 

I  would  like  to  seize  this  opportunity  to  convey 
my  special  thanks  to  the  Group  of  Eight  and  the 
international and regional financial institutions that did 
not  hesitate  to  support  Tunisia’s  democratic  transition 
and  economic  revival  processes,  especially  within  the 
framework  of  the  Deauville  Partnership.  I  would  also 
like  to  thank  United  Nations  bodies,  regional  groups 
and  friendly  and  sisterly  countries  for  their  precious 
contributions,  whether 
the  successful 
democratic  transition  or  reducing  the  impact  of  the 
economic crisis in Tunisia and its social repercussions.  

I  also  welcome  the  seminal  efforts  of  States  and 
organizations alike for their assistance in responding to 
the  massive  influx  of  hundreds  of  thousands  refugees 
into  Tunisia  following  the  events  that  occurred  in 
kindred  Libya.  Tunisia’s  deep  integration  into  its 
regional and international surroundings is a top priority 
for  our  foreign  policy,  which  we  are  keen  to  develop 
through  good 
and 
organizations,  based  on  cooperation,  mutual  respect, 
good-neighbourliness 
common 
interests. 
relations  with 
in  assisting 
all  States 
respect 
and 
for 
11-51390 

25 

to 
reiterate 
the  warm 
the  Tunisian  people  for 
A/66/PV.26 


Tunisia  considers  relations  with  its  immediate 
neighbours  —  the  countries  of  the  Arab  Maghreb 
Union — especially important. We reiterate our call for 
resumed  coordination  among  all  of 
the  Union’s 
member  States  to  initiate  a  new  phase  of  promoting 
integration  through  the  establishment  of  durable  and 
joint  institutions,  mainly  in  development  and  the 
economy,  for  the  benefit  of  all  of  the  peoples  of  our 
region. 

In  speaking  of  our  Maghreb  region,  I  take  the 
opportunity  to  pay  tribute  also  to  the  kindred  Libyan 
people  and 
respect  and 
congratulations  of 
their 
victorious  revolution.  It  represents  a  crucial,  historic 
change  in  the  region  that  will  pave  the  way  for  the 
emergence  of  a  democratic  political  system  in  Libya. 
Those  developments  will  have  a  profound,  positive 
impact  on  Tunisian-Libyan  relations  and  on 
the 
establishment of the Arab Maghreb Union. 

As an Arab, Islamic and African country, Tunisia 
remains  proud  and  deeply  attached  to  its  various 
origins.  It  will  continue  to  support  the  political  and 
regional  organizations  and  groupings  of  which  it  is  a 
member,  as  well  as  its  economic  and  development 
partnerships. 

Tunisia  will  remain  faithful  to  mutual  action 
within the Arab forum  and to supporting the issues of 
concern  to  the  League  of  Arab  States,  including  the 
cause of Palestine.  

Tunisia  reaffirms  its  unwavering  and  principled 
position  in  support  for  its  Palestinian  brothers  and 
sisters  and  for  their  request  for  full  recognition  as  a 
State  Member  of  the  United  Nations,  as  expressed  by 
the 
Palestinian  Authority, 
Mr. Mahmoud  Abbas,  before  the  Assembly  this  past 
Friday  (see  A/66/PV.19).  Tunisia  thus  calls  on  the 
international  community  to  support  the  legitimate 
Palestinian  bid  for  full  membership  in  the  United 
Nations,  as  well  as  its  territorial  integrity  as  an 
independent  State  within  legally  recognized  borders, 
with  the  Holy  City  of  Jerusalem  as  its  capital. At  the 
same  time,  Tunisia  strongly  condemns  the  unjust 
embargo  imposed  by  Israel  on  the  Gaza  Strip  and  its 
recent  military  aggression  there,  which  resulted  in 
many innocent victims.  

While congratulating the kindred Egyptian people 
for their young peoples’ successful revolution based on 
their  legitimate  aspirations  for  freedom  and  dignity, 
President 
of 
the 
the  Syrian  Golan  and 
Tunisia expresses its hope that peace and stability will 
be  restored  in  Syria  and  Yemen  in  order  to  meet  the 
aspirations  of  their  peoples  for  democracy,  freedom 
and reforms. In parallel, Tunisia reaffirms its rejection 
of  any  attempt  to  exploit  the  situation  in  those  two 
friendly countries. Tunisia reiterates its call to end the 
Israeli  occupation  of 
the 
remaining occupied Lebanese territories, in accordance 
with international law. 

As an African country, Tunisia attaches particular 
importance  to  its  geographic  position  in  the  continent 
and  to  its  belief  in  the  importance  of  geographic 
integration and strengthened cooperation and solidarity 
with  the  sisterly  African  countries.  Tunisia  remains 
faithful  to  enhancing  this  belief  while  reaffirming 
respect for the principles and objectives of the African 
Union  and  its  unwavering  support  for  all  initiatives 
aimed  at  promoting  development  in  the  continent  and 
preserving its peace and stability and its capabilities. 

Given  the  strategic  importance  of  its  relations 
with the European Union, Tunisia will further enhance 
those  relations  with  an  eye  to  establishing  a  closely 
knit partnership based on  mutual respect and common 
interests.  Here,  Tunisia  expresses  its  hope  that  the 
European  Union  and  all  of  the  friendly  European 
countries  will  be  among  the  first  to  support  the 
Tunisian  people  and  to  assist  them  in  the  successful 
implementation  of  their  transitional  phase  in  the 
political, financial and economical sectors.  

Tunisia  will  also  strengthen  cooperation  in  its 
relations  with  the  countries  and  the  peoples  of  the 
Mediterranean under the Union for the Mediterranean.  

Our country attaches a particular importance also 
to fostering its relations with Australia, Latin American 
and  the  Asian  countries,  as  well  as  with  their  major 
regional groups, within the framework of an open and 
balanced foreign policy approach aimed at establishing 
a multifaceted partnership. 
Tunisia  will  strive  to  re-establish  its  position 

within  the  United  Nations  in  a  way  that  reflects  its 
peoples’  awareness  and  aspirations  as  well  as  its  rich 
history  and  positive  contributions  in  its  international 
relations. In that context, we highlight our commitment 
to the principles of international law and international 
legitimacy  and  call  for  launching  the  process  of 
reforming 
through 
enlargement  of  the  Security  Council’s  membership  in 
the  United  Nations,  mainly 
26 

11-51390 
(resolution 
65/312),  which 


order to ensure permanent representation of the African 
continent. 

Tunisia’s  provisional  Government  welcomed  the 
convening  by  the  General Assembly,  in  July  2011,  of 
the  High-level  Meeting  on  Youth  and  its  outcome 
document 
contains 
important  recommendations  reflecting  the  aspirations 
of young people throughout the world and based on the 
awareness that unemployment had become a universal 
phenomenon and thus one of the major challenges. We 
reiterate  our  call  to  all  concerned  parties  to  develop  a 
global strategy to fight unemployment. 

While  organizing  the  elections  to  the  National 
Constituent Assembly next October is a priority for our 
country,  we  reiterate  our  adherence  to  regional  and 
international  commitments  and  responsibilities.  We 
reaffirm  our  work,  as  a  peace-loving  country,  for 
international  legality  and  to  uphold  the principles  and 
values of  the  United  Nations.  We  are  determined  to 
play  an  active  and  vital  role  in  international  relations, 
in  line  with  the  aspirations  of  our  people,  who  have 
conducted a peaceful revolution to recover their rights, 
freedom and dignity. 

The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 
Excellency  Mr.  R.M.  Marty  M.  Natalegawa,  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs of the Republic of Indonesia. 
Mr.  Natalegawa  (Indonesia):  Allow  me,  Sir,  to 

congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser on his election to preside over the Assembly 
at  the  sixty-sixth  session.  Let  me  also  commend  his 
predecessor,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss,  for  his 
leadership in guiding us over the Assembly’s sixth-fifth 
session.  May  I  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on his reappointment. 

Indonesia  would  also  like  to  welcome  South 
Sudan as a Member of the United Nations.  

Our  world  continues  to  be  full  of  challenges, 
political and military tensions and conflicts, as well as 
threats  of  nuclear  weapons  and  of  acts  of  piracy  and 
terrorism.  There  is  the  financial  and  economic  crisis. 
Worse and more fundamental still, in many corners of 
the  world 
is  abject  poverty  and  hunger, 
environmental threats and natural disasters, energy and 
food  insecurity,  intolerance  and  discrimination.  There 
are  authoritarian  regimes  bent  on  suppressing  the 
clamour for democracy and respect for human rights. 
there 
A/66/PV.26
relations 
international 
stand  united 

We believe that in convening in this historic Hall, 
as we do every year, we must seek more than simply to 
review the past year, to lament opportunities lost and to 
congratulate  ourselves  on  the  gains  made.  Rather,  we 
must ensure that, moving forward, as nations we stand 
united  —  United  Nations  — 
in  addressing  and 
anticipating the challenges ahead.  

In  particular,  we  must 
in 
transforming  challenges  into  opportunities  for  nations 
to  forge  mutually  beneficial  partnerships,  anchored  in 
the principles of the United Nations Charter. We must 
change challenges into opportunities to promote a new 
kind  of 
that  accentuates 
partnership  rather  than  confrontation,  and  that  places 
primacy  on  the  building  of  bridges  rather  than  the 
deepening  of  fault  lines  and  divisions,  and  on  nations 
aggressively waging peace and development. 

Waging  peace  and  development  in  the  Middle 
East  must,  first  and  foremost,  entail  correcting  the 
historic injustice to the Palestinian people that has been 
allowed  for  too  long.  Indonesia’s  support  for  the 
legitimate  aspirations  and  rights  of  the  people  of 
Palestine to live in freedom, peace, justice and dignity 
in  their  own  homeland  has  been  steadfast  and  will 
continue unabated. 

Indonesia  therefore  strongly  supports  Palestine’s 
present  quest  for  full  membership  in  the  United 
Nations. Such membership is consistent with the vision 
of 
just  and 
comprehensive  peace  in  the  Middle  East.  Indeed,  the 
recent  heightened  worldwide  focus  on  the  issue  of 
Palestine  can,  and  must,  be  channelled 
in  a 
constructive way towards the promotion of an inclusive 
partnership  among  nations  that  leads  to  the  fulfilment 
of  the  historic  responsibilities  shouldered  by  our 
United Nations. 

The  continued  denial  of  the  most  basic  rights  of 
the Palestinian people becomes all the more glaring in 
the face of the welcome democratic transformation that 
is  under  way  in  parts  of  North Africa  and  the  Middle 
East. Like many, Indonesia has been deeply concerned 
by the untold losses and casualties suffered by innocent 
civilians.  The  bloodshed  and  use  of  force  must  be 
brought  to  an  immediate  end,  for,  ultimately,  political 
solutions  must  be  found.  That  means  that  conditions 
conducive for people to shape their own future must be 
promoted.  Thus  in  Libya,  for  example,  Indonesia 
two-State  solution  and  of  a 
the 
11-51390 

27 
in 
their 
paths 
unique 
Global  partnership 
is  particularly  key 
A/66/PV.26 

supports the National Transitional Council in its efforts 
to promote a peaceful and democratic transition. 

A  decade  or  so  ago  now,  Indonesia  too  went 
through  a  tumultuous  process  of  democratic  change. 
Today,  as  the  third  largest  democracy,  Indonesia  is 
reaping the democratic dividends of such change. That 
is  why  we  believe  that  political  development  and 
democratization  should  constitute  a  priority  item  on 
our agenda, to allow States to share lessons learned and 
experiences 
towards 
democratization. That is why we took the initiative  of 
launching  the  Bali  Democracy  Forum  —  the  only 
intergovernmental forum for the sharing of experience 
and cooperation on political development in Asia. It is 
a forum for partnership in the promotion of democracy. 

in 
addressing  the  challenges  of  development  in  order  to 
achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and  to 
prevent  the  recurrence  of  famine,  which  we  are 
currently  witnessing  in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  Thus  we 
must  act  in  concert  and  in  a  focused  and  sustainable 
way  to  ensure  food  security  for  the  most  vulnerable. 
That  means  increased  investment  in  the  agricultural 
research  and  development  sector  and 
increased 
production and productivity. 

I  wish  to  highlight  one  particular  driver  of 
economic  growth  and  development. An  enhanced  role 
for  women  in  the  economy  is  not  only  right,  but  also 
smart,  leading  to  both  increased  growth  and  more 
balanced, sustainable and equitable growth. 
Achieving  food  security  also  requires  that  we 

change.  The 
confront 
the  political 
international  community  must 
commitment 
for  climate 
change, towards a new climate regime after 2012. The 
forthcoming  seventeenth  Conference  of  the  Parties  to 
the  Climate  Change  Convention  in  Durban  and  the 
Rio+20  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  in 
Brazil next year must deliver. 

However,  let  us  not  wait.  In  Indonesia,  we  are 
committed  to  being  proactive  and  to  being  part  of  the 
global solution to climate change. Through the REDD-
plus  programme  —  Reducing  Emissions 
from 
Deforestation and Forest  Degradation — we are using 
our  natural  rainforests  as  an  important  part  of  our 
mitigation efforts. 
climate 
find 
to  generate  momentum 
reality  of 
the 

to  work 
in  partnership 
Our  commitment 

in 
addressing climate change must not founder before the 
looming and renewed threat of the global financial and 
economic crisis. In the face of that challenge, we must 
take  bold  measures.  The  reform  of 
international 
financial and economic governance must be expedited. 
Enhanced coordination of national economic policies is 
essential.  We  must  learn  to  step  out  of  our  comfort 
zone  and  address  those  critical  needs  in  concert.  As 
emerging  economies  are  now  an  important  engine  of 
global  economic  growth,  they  must  have  a  greater 
opportunity to contribute to promoting solutions. 

The  challenges  confronting  us  are  persistent  and 
formidable,  but  we  have  the  opportunity  and  the 
capacity  to  address  them  and,  most  of  all,  to  turn 
challenges  into  opportunities.  For  a  start,  since  those 
challenges defy national solutions, they can at the same 
time motivate countries to strike partnerships and build 
cooperation.  In that regard, allow me to  highlight two 
basic points. 

First,  we  need  to  strengthen  multilateralism  in 
order  to  address  global  challenges.  That  means  the 
central  role  of  the  United  Nations.  To  be  able  to 
address new and emerging challenges, and, not least, to 
identify new opportunities, full support for and reform 
of the United Nations are key. That is the only way that 
the  United  Nations  can  remain  relevant  and  to  ensure 
that multilateralism flourishes. 

Through  reform,  we  must  ensure  that  the  United 
Nations  and  its  decision-making  processes  are  more 
effective, efficient, transparent and inclusive. We must 
persevere  in  strengthening  the  General  Assembly,  the 
Economic  and  Social  Council  and  their  subsidiary 
organs, as well as the Human Rights Council. We must 
support  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  as  it  helps 
countries emerging from conflict. 

The  Security  Council  must  better  reflect  the 
current  world  situation.  It  should  become  more 
representative,  more 
thus,  more 
effective.  All  key  issues  of  United  Nations  reform 
should  be 
a 
addressed 
comprehensive package. 
Secondly,  cooperation  and  partnership  between 

the  United  Nations  and  regional  organizations  are  key 
to  addressing  today’s  global  challenges.  Thus,  there 
should be synergy between global and regional efforts. 
That  is  particularly  true  in  conflict  prevention  and 
resolution,  linked  to  the  theme  of  this  year’s  General 
integral  parts  of 
transparent  and, 
as 
28 

11-51390 
that 
to 
is  conducive 


Assembly  session,  “The  role  of  mediation  in  the 
settlement of disputes by peaceful means”. 

In South-East Asia, as Chair of the Association of 
Southeast  Asian  Nations  (ASEAN),  Indonesia  has 
worked ceaselessly to develop the region’s capacity to 
prevent  and  to  manage  potential  conflicts,  and  to 
resolve  them.  Our  efforts  have  been  focused  not  only 
on  the  further  development  of  ASEAN’s  conflict 
prevention  and  resolution  mechanisms,  but  also  on 
developing  and  nurturing  the  necessary  comfort  level 
among  ASEAN  member  States  to  resort  to  such 
mechanisms. 

As a result, we expect South-East Asia to remain 
a net contributor to international peace and security, as 
well  as  to  economic  development  and  prosperity. 
Beyond  its  own  subregion,  anchored  in  a  strong 
ASEAN Community, we are indeed set to attain those 
achievements  by  2015.  ASEAN  continues  to  be  the 
driving  force  in  promoting  a  regional  architecture 
throughout  Asia-Pacific 
the 
maintenance  of  regional  peace  and  stability,  which  is 
precisely  the  kind  of  conditions  that  have  enabled 
countries  in  the  region  to  pursue  a  development  path 
uninterrupted by wars and conflicts. 

In  the  current  regional  setting,  in  Indonesia  we 
describe  that  as  conditions  that  are  marked  by  a 
dynamic equilibrium, where dominant power is absent 
owing to a lack of the promotion of block politics and 
often  self-fulfilling  geopolitical  fault  lines.  Rather, 
there exists a new kind of international relations, with 
its  emphasis  on  common  security,  common  prosperity 
and common stability. 

This  November,  a  revamped  East  Asia  Summit 
will  convene  in  Bali,  Indonesia,  with  the  participation 
of the Russian Federation and the United States for the 
first  time.  That  will  be  part  of  an  important  regional 
architecture. 

As ASEAN  builds  its  Community  and  continues 
its  central  role  in  maintaining  a  stable  and  peaceful 
environment  in  the  Asia-Pacific  region,  it  sets  a  new 
challenge and a new vision for itself, that is, to develop 
greater  cohesion  and  a  common  platform  on  global 
issues  ─  an  ASEAN  that  is  a  net  contributor  to  the 
solution  of  many  of  the  world’s  ills  and  challenges. 
That  is  in  keeping  with  ASEAN’s  theme  for  2011, 
“ASEAN  Community  in  a  Global  Community  of 
Nations”. 
A/66/PV.26
prevent 

To  conclude,  I  wish  to  assure  Members  of  the 
United  Nations  that  Indonesia  will  be  relentless  and 
unceasing  in  promoting  the  ideals  embodied  in  the 
Charter of the United Nations in promoting peace. 
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  John  Baird,  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of Canada. 
Mr.  Baird  (Canada):  Nearly  66  years  ago,  in 

1946,  one  of  my  predecessors  was  privileged  to 
represent  Canada  at  the  first  session  of  the  General 
Assembly. It  is an honour  to follow in those footsteps 
and  to  renew  Canada’s  commitment  to  the  founding 
principles  of  the  United  Nations,  namely,  to  maintain 
international peace and security;  to 
and 
remove threats to peace; to suppress acts of aggression; 
to  respect  the  principle  of  equal  rights  and  the  self-
determination  of  peoples; 
to  strengthen  universal 
peace;  and  to  promote  and  encourage  respect  for 
human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms  for  all.  This 
Hall  symbolizes  the  promise  of  humankind  and  what 
we  can  accomplish  by  working  together  to  uphold 
those founding principles. 
Yet, only a short distance from here is an entirely 

different  symbol  ─  ground  zero.  The  date  9/11  was  a 
stark  reminder  that  evil  exists,  that  life  is  fragile,  that 
freedom  has  enemies,  and  that  the  poison  of  radical 
terrorism is all too real. It serves as a reminder that, as 
far  as  humankind  has  advanced,  threats  to  peace, 
security and human dignity remain. 

In  that  context,  I  wish  to  share  reflections  on 
three areas: first, the principles that motivate Canada’s 
approach  to  foreign  policy;  secondly,  the  basis  for 
Canada’s  support  of  multilateral  organizations  and 
multilateral  action;  and  thirdly,  a  way  forward  for  the 
United Nations. 

The  founding  principles  of  these  United  Nations 
are more than mere  words. It is our duty to pull them 
from the printed page, to breathe life into them and to 
practise them every day. In everyday practice, it is not 
easy  to  uphold  principles.  It  requires  struggle  and 
sacrifice. Some pay the ultimate price. 

The  world  remembers  Secretary-General  Dag 
Hammarskjöld,  who  was  killed  50  years  ago  this 
month. We honour him for his integrity, his principles 
and for his great courage in confronting power. We also 
remember  that  it  was  Canada’s  Prime  Minister,  John 
Diefenbaker, who, just a year earlier, stood at this very 
11-51390 

29 

in 
A/66/PV.26 

rostrum  to  respond  to  unjust  attacks  against  him. 
Canada  did  not  hesitate  to  defend  the  Office  and  the 
person of the Secretary-General. 

That  is  the  Canadian  tradition  —  standing  for 
what is principled and just, regardless of whether it is 
popular,  convenient  or  expedient.  Over 
the  past 
century, the world was infected by a lethal combination 
of utopian ideology and brutal despotism that spawned 
totalitarian  regimes  that  enslaved  their  own  peoples. 
Apologists  tried  to  persuade  us  that  the  ideology  of 
Communism  was  benign.  Canadians  knew  better.  We 
took  a  stand  for  freedom  and  fundamental  human 
rights. We stood against oppression in Germany and in 
Ukraine. We stood with its brave people, and those of 
the other captive nations of central and Eastern Europe. 

Canada  does  not  go  along  in  order  to  get  along. 
We  will  go  along  only  if  we  go  in  a  direction  that 
advances Canada’s values: freedom, democracy, human 
rights and the rule of law. Also, Canada would not go 
along  to  support  the  farce  of  a  major  proliferator  of 
nuclear  arms  presiding  over 
the  Conference  on 
Disarmament.  When  North  Korea  relinquished  the 
presidency,  we  resumed  our  engagement 
the 
Conference.  Canada’s 
sanctions 
against  that  rogue  regime  remain  in  place,  and  we 
continue  to  advocate  and  advance  reform  in  how  the 
President of that important body is selected. 

We would not go along with appeasement of the 
former Al-Qadhafi regime, nor would we look the other 
way  when  the  Lockerbie  mass  murderer  received  a 
hero’s welcome and the Colonel’s embrace. We would 
not  look  the  other  way  as  the  Al-Qadhafi  regime, 
blatantly disregarding human rights and the rule of law, 
waged war on the people of Libya. 
Canada  backs  our  principles  with  action: 

providing  military  support 
to  NATO’s  Operation 
Unified Protector; recognizing the National Transitional 
Council  as  Libya’s  transitional  Government;  co-founding 
the Libya Contact Group; and giving early, strong and 
continuing  support  to  the  Libyan  people’s  struggle 
against tyranny. 

Canada  would  not  simply  go  along  or  look 
elsewhere  when  the  Al-Assad  regime  started  killing 
Syrian  men,  women  and  children  in  a  despicable  and 
desperate attempt to cling to power. We imposed tough 
sanctions on the regime and its backers. 
tough  economic 
30 


Canada will not go along with a double standard 
that  castigates  some  United  Nations  Members  for 
alleged failings, while ignoring the notorious abuses of 
others.  We  supported  the  aspirations  of  those  peoples 
who  sought  brighter  futures  for  themselves  and  their 
countries during the Arab spring that has just passed. 

However, we will not go along with the unilateral 
actions  of  the  Palestinian  Authority.  Just  a  few  days 
ago,  the  Quartet  laid  the  foundation  for  a  return  to 
negotiation.  Our  Government’s  position  has  been 
clear —  the  only  solution  to  the  issue  is  one  that  is 
negotiated by the two parties themselves. We continue 
to encourage both sides to accept those principles and 
to return to direct talks, based on a two-State solution, 
without delay or precondition.  

We  uphold  Israel’s  right  to  exist.  We  uphold  its 
fundamental  right,  like  any  Member  State,  to  defend 
innocent  civilians  against  acts  of  terrorism.  Just  as 
Fascism  and  Communism  were  the  great  struggles  of 
previous generations, terrorism is the great struggle of 
ours. Far too often, the Jewish State is on the front line 
in our struggle and its people are the victims of terror. 
Canada  will  not  accept  or  stay  silent  while  the 

Jewish State is attacked for defending its territory and 
its  citizens.  The  Second  World  War  taught  us  all  the 
tragic  price  of  going  along  just  to  get  along.  It  was 
accommodation and appeasement that allowed Fascism 
to  gather  strength.  As  Winston  Churchill  said,  an 
appeaser  is  one  who  feeds  a  crocodile,  hoping  it  will 
eat him last. 
We respect State sovereignty, but Canada will not 

go  along  or  look  the  other  way  when  a  minority  is 
denied its human rights or fundamental freedoms. It is 
our  common  duty  to  uphold  the  rights  of  the  afflicted 
and to give a voice to the voiceless.  

As  citizens  of  the  global  community,  we  have  a 
solemn  duty  to  defend  the  vulnerable,  to  challenge 
aggression  and  to  protect  and  promote  human  rights 
and  human  dignity,  at  home  and  abroad:  women, 
Christians,  Baha’i  and  other  victims  of  persecution  in 
Iran;  Roman  Catholic  priests,  other  Christian  clergy 
and  their  laity,  driven  to  worship  underground  in 
China; Christians being driven out of Iraq by Al-Qaida; 
and  Copts  being  assaulted  and  killed  in  Egypt.  In 
Burma, the regime discriminates against several forms 
of Buddhism and restricts the activities of Muslims. In 
other  places,  the  Ahmadiyya  community  faces  real 
violence.  Gays  and  lesbians  are  threatened  with  the 
11-51390 


criminalization of their sexuality in Uganda, and other 
minorities  are  subjected  to  persecution,  oppression  or 
violence. Our nationalities are many but we share one 
humanity. 

I  am  pleased  to  report  that  Canada  will  be 
creating  an  office  of  religious  freedom  within  our 
Government  at  the  heart  of  my  own  Department.  The 
office  will  promote  freedom  of  religion  and  of 
conscience  as  key  objectives  of  Canadian  foreign 
policy. The long history of humankind has proved that 
religious 
freedom  are 
inseparable. As Franklin Roosevelt observed on the eve 
of global war,  

freedom  and  democratic 
democracy 
“[w]here  freedom  of  religion  has  been  attacked, 
the  attack  has  come  from  sources  opposed  to 
democracy.  Where 
been 
overthrown, 
the  spirit  of  free  worship  has 
disappeared.  And  where  religion  and  democracy 
have  vanished,  good 
in 
international  affairs  have  given  way  to  strident 
ambition and brute force”.  
That  brings  me 
to  Canada’s 
faith  and 
reason 
has 
just 
last  year.  Referring 

support  of 
multilateral  institutions  and  multilateral  action.  Some 
years  ago,  a  former  Secretary-General  referred  to 
enlightened  multilateralism  as  the  guarantor,  not  the 
enemy, of State sovereignty and the integrity of State. 
State  sovereignty 
is  not  created  by  multilateral 
institutions.  Instead,  multilateral  institutions  exist  and 
derive  legitimacy  from  the  independent  decisions  of 
sovereign States. 
Canada’s position in that regard was explained by 

our  Prime  Minister 
to 
multilateral  action  to  address  the  world  economic 
crisis,  Stephen  Harper  said 
that  he  saw  world 
leadership, at its best, as a glimpse of a hopeful future 
where we act together for the good of all; the world we 
have  been  trying  to  build  since  1945;  the  world  we 
want for our children and for our grandchildren. It can 
be done if we act together.  

Enlightened  sovereignty,  multilateral  institutions 
and  multilateral  action  result  from  a  collection  of 
sovereign  decisions  based  on  individual  States’  own 
interests,  not  narrow  self-interest  in  sovereignty’s 
name,  but  an  expanded  view  of  mutual  interest  in 
which  there  is  room  for  all  to  grow  and  for  all  to 
prosper. Canada calls that enlightened sovereignty. It is 
the natural extension of enlightened self-interest. 
A/66/PV.26
the 
to  support 

As  Canada’s  Prime  Minister  noted  when  he 
addressed  the  General Assembly  last  year,  the  United 
Nations  Charter  is  animated  by  “the  idea  that  what  is 
good  for  others  may  well  be  the  best  way  to  pursue 
one’s  own  interests”  (A/65/PV.11,  p.  46)  —  in  other 
words, enlightened sovereignty. 

The  world  knows  that  we  can  accomplish  great 
things by working together. This year, collective action 
under United Nations sanction helped to limit the loss 
of  life  in  Libya  and  ultimately  ended  a  criminal, 
illegitimate  regime’s  war  on  the  people  whom  it 
claimed  to  represent.  Canada  was  tremendously  proud 
to  take  part  in  its  demise.  Our  Royal  Canadian  Air 
Force flew 10 per cent of the total strike sorties against 
Al-Qadhafi’s  forces  and  our  Royal  Canadian  Navy 
helped enforce the maritime blockade. 

Canada has paid heavily, both in dollar terms and 
in  a  costly  human  toll,  to  fulfil  our  United  Nations 
obligation 
lawful  Government  of 
Afghanistan.  We  used  our  chairmanship  of  the  Group 
of  Eight  to  reach  out  to  leaders  from  Africa  and  the 
Americas  and  to  secure  an  agreement  to  enact  the 
Muskoka  Initiative  for  maternal,  newborn  and  child 
health. 

That  progress  will  help  to  meet  the  Millennium 
Development Goal of reducing the appalling mortality 
among  mothers  and  children  in  developing  countries. 
Working  with  like-minded  nations,  Canada  continues 
to  make  significant  financial  contributions  towards 
peace,  humanitarian  assistance,  development  aid  and 
security in the Sudans. Collective action does not mean 
uniformity. 
For  example,  Canada  works  closely  with  like-

minded  countries 
to  advance  human  rights  and 
democracy  in  Burma.  At  the  same  time,  we  imposed 
the  toughest  sanctions  in  the  world  against  that 
country’s  repressive  military  regime.  Similarly,  when 
Canada  placed  strong  restrictions  on  Syria’s  current 
regime,  we  acted 
in  close 
consultation and cooperation with other nations. 

In the defence of freedom and human rights, form 
cannot  prevail  over  substance.  The  determinant  is 
which 
results.  While 
multilateral  action  should  be  preferred,  failure  to 
achieve  consensus  must  not  prevent  the  willing  from 
acting  to  uphold  human  rights  and  the  founding 
principles of the United Nations. 
independently,  but 
route  produces 
the  best 
11-51390 

31 
the 
and 
the  seventh 
the  world.  We  are 
elimination  of  waste 
A/66/PV.26 


Margaret Thatcher was once reported to have said 
that “consensus seems to be the process of abandoning 
all  beliefs,  principles,  values  and  policies.  So  it  is 
something in which no one believes”. That leads to my 
third  topic  —  the  challenges  to  the  relevance  and  the 
effectiveness of this important Organization. 

Canada  has  been  a  consistently  reliable  and 
responsible  participant  in  United  Nations  initiatives 
around 
largest 
contributor to United Nations finances. The citizens of 
the world deserve that the United Nations abide by the 
same principles observed by so many Governments of 
Member  States:  accountability, 
transparency  and 
ethics;  financial  responsibility  and  fiscal  austerity; 
efficiency 
and 
duplication;  regular  reviews  to  sunset  unnecessary, 
redundant  and  obsolete  mandates;  and  zero  tolerance 
for conflicts of interest, fraud and corruption. 

Yet,  the  challenges  faced  by  this  Organization 
extend  beyond  financial  probity  and  operational 
effectiveness. This  Organization  is  a  forum  for  debate 
and  dialogue,  but  it  must  also  be  a  force  for  positive 
action  to  make  the  world  a  better  place. As  a  former 
Canadian  Prime  Minister,  John  Diefenbaker,  told  this 
Assembly during his defence of the world’s persecuted 
minorities:  “We  are  not  here  in  this Assembly  to  win 
wars  of  propaganda.  We  are  here  to  win  victories  for 
peace.” (A/PV.871, para. 225)  

The  relevance  and  effectiveness  of  the  United 
Nations  are  imperilled  when  the  founding  principles 
are observed in word but not in deed. Such is the case 
when 
the  Conference  on 
Disarmament passes to a regime involved in the illicit 
transfers of weapons, material and technology; or when 
Iran,  which  mocks  the  values  of  this  Organization 
through  such  outrages  as  refusing  to  allow  entry  to  

the  presidency  of 

that 
often 
against  Women, 
institutions  by  conduct 
United Nations observers on human rights, is permitted 
to seek leadership roles, such as the vice-presidency of 
the General Assembly and a seat on the Commission on 
Population  and  Development;  or  when  objection  is 
taken on petty, procedural or process-based grounds to 
reporting that speaks about credible allegations of war 
crimes  committed  in  Sri  Lanka;  or  when  blatant 
violators  of  women’s  rights  are  welcomed  to  the 
Convention  on  the  Elimination  of  All  Forms  of 
Discrimination 
despite 
reservations  that  are  incompatible  with  the  object  and 
purpose of the very Convention. 
Canada has consistently opposed the debasement 

of  multilateral 
is 
inconsistent  with  their  values.  For  example,  this  year 
marks  the  fiftieth  anniversary  of  Canada’s  principled 
refusal  to  support  membership  in  the  Commonwealth 
of Nations by South Africa’s then apartheid regime. 

The  greatest  enemies  of  the  United  Nations  are 
not  those  who  publicly  repudiate  its  actions.  The 
greatest  enemies  of  the  United  Nations  are  those  who 
quietly undermine its principles or, even worse, who sit 
idly, watching its slow decline. We cannot sit idly. 

Canada  is  a  vigorous  defender  of  freedom, 
democracy and the rule of law. As our Prime Minister 
remarked earlier this month,  

“we are not a country that makes war for gain or 
for  territory.  We  do  not  fight  for  glory.  If  we 
covet honour, it is only a reputation for doing the 
right thing in a good cause”. 

That  is  all. That  is  enough.  If  I  may  be  so  bold, 
that is why the countries of the world came together in 
the  United  Nations  ─  to  do  the  right  thing  in  a  good 
cause.  The  cause  is  peace,  justice,  freedom  and 
opportunity for all. 

  The meeting rose at 6.35 p.m. 
32 

11-51390 
