
A/66/PV.15
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

15th plenary meeting 
Thursday, 22 September 2011, 11 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 
the  international  community,  should  offer  this  support 
while  respecting  the  sovereignty  and  the  territorial 
integrity of the Member States of the United Nations. 

The  Republic  of  Cyprus  has  experienced 
violence,  and  we  still  suffer  from  its  consequences. 
Cyprus  is  still  suffering  the  effects  of  the  illegal 
Turkish invasion of 1974 and the ongoing occupation. 
The Cyprus problem is first and foremost a problem of 
invasion  and  occupation  and 
the  violation  of 
international  law  and  of  the  human  rights  of  Cypriot 
citizens. 

Since the Turkish invasion in 1974, our goal has 
been  a  peaceful  resolution  of  the  problem  through 
negotiations  between  the  Greek  Cypriot  and  Turkish 
Cypriot  communities  under 
the 
Secretary-General and on the basis of Security Council 
and General Assembly resolutions on Cyprus. 

Since  September  2008,  we  have  undertaken  a 
renewed effort to solve the Cyprus problem, under the 
through  direct 
auspices  of 
negotiations  between 
two 
communities, upon our initiative. This effort is focused 
on the evolution of the unitary State into a federal one, 
with  two  federated  units  with  political  equality  as 
defined in relevant Security Council resolutions — one 
State,  with  a  single  sovereignty,  a  single  citizenship 
and  a  single  international  personality.  This  basis  was 
reaffirmed  by  the  leaders  of  the  two  communities  in 
2008,  when 
the  resumption  of 
negotiations. 
the  United  Nations, 
the  auspices  of 
they  agreed  on 
leaders  of 
the 
the 





  The meeting was called to order at 11.15 a.m. 

the 
the 
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
Address by Mr. Demetris Christofias, President of 
the Republic of Cyprus 

address by the President of the Republic of Cyprus. 
Mr.  Demetris  Christofias,  President  of 

Republic  of  Cyprus,  was  escorted 
into 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Demetris  Christofias, 
President of the Republic of Cyprus, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly. 
President  Christofias  (spoke  in  Greek;  English 

text  provided  by  the  delegation):  I  congratulate  you, 
Sir,  on  your  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session.  I  express  the 
support of the Cypriot delegation, and I wish you every 
success in fulfilling your duties. 

Over  the  past  six  months  we  have  witnessed 
historic changes in the wider region of the Middle East 
and  North  Africa,  a  region  which  is  very  close  to 
Cyprus.  A  popular  movement  has  developed  in  this 
region  with  the  aim  of  implementing  fundamental 
democratic reforms. The reforms are a sovereign affair 
for  the  peoples.  We  hope  that  they  are  achieved 
peacefully, without bloodshed and for the benefit of the 
peoples  themselves,  through  political  dialogue  and 
with  the  support  of  the  international  community.  We, 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-50865 (E) 
*1150865* 


to 
settled 
regardless  of 
issue  must  be 
A/66/PV.15 


At  the  same  time,  the  negotiating  process,  under 
the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations,  was  agreed.  The 
negotiations  are  Cypriot-led  and  Cypriot-owned,  as 
was  agreed  with  the  Secretary-General,  excluding  any 
form  of  arbitration  or  artificial  time  frames.  This  was 
agreed,  bearing  in  mind  recent  negative  experiences 
that  resulted  from  unsuccessful  attempts  to  solve  the 
problem. 

We  aim  to  achieve  a  mutually  agreed  solution, 
terminating the occupation and the illegal colonization 
by Turkey with settlers in the occupied part of Cyprus. 
We  seek  a  solution  that  reunifies  the  country  and  its 
people  and  creates  conditions  of  lasting  peace  and 
security on the island. 

An important aspect of the Cyprus problem, of a 
humanitarian  nature,  is  the  issue  of  missing  persons. 
This 
the 
developments in the negotiations. Turkey must fulfil its 
obligations,  which  stem  from  the  judgments  of  the 
European  Court  of  Human  Rights, 
allow 
exhumations in military areas and open the archives of 
its army and of other services, in order to determine the 
fate of the missing persons. 
During  the  first  two  years  of  direct  negotiations 

between 
two  communities, 
convergences have been reached on various aspects of 
the  Cyprus  problem.  I  regret  to  note  that,  lately  in 
particular,  the  Turkish  Cypriot  side  is  backtracking, 
even  from  convergences  that  had  been  found.  This 
change in the stance of the Turkish Cypriot leadership 
draws on the recent negative and provocative policy of 
Turkey in the region. 

In  recent  years,  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  has 
started  a  process  for  the  exploration  and  potential 
extraction  of  hydrocarbons  within 
its  exclusive 
economic  zone.  This  was  preceded  by  agreements  to 
delimit the exclusive economic zone with neighbouring 
countries, always within the framework of international 
law, in particular the United Nations Convention on the 
Law  of  the  Sea,  which  the  Republic  of  Cyprus  has 
ratified. We anticipate that this effort will contribute to 
the discovery of new energy resources, particularly for 
Europe,  and  of  course  for  the  shared  benefit  of  our 
people, Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots alike. 

We  believe  that  the  possible  discovery  and 
extraction  of  hydrocarbons  will  constitute  yet  another 
strong motive for Greek Cypriots and Turkish Cypriots 
to expedite a just, functional and viable solution to the 
leaders  of 
the 
the 
Cyprus  problem,  so  that  both  communities  can  enjoy 
the  natural  wealth  of  our  country  in  conditions  of 
peace,  security  and  prosperity.  I  wish  to  reassure  our 
Turkish  Cypriot  compatriots  that,  regardless  of  the 
circumstances,  they  would  benefit  from  the  possible 
discovery and extraction of hydrocarbons. 

Unfortunately,  the  effort  of  the  Republic  of 
Cyprus  to  exercise  its  sovereign  right  to  exploit  its 
marine  wealth  is  met  by  threats  by  Turkey  against 
Cyprus.  Turkish  naval  manoeuvres  in  the  region  of 
Cyprus’s exclusive economic zone, where explorations 
are being carried out, are  provocative and constitute  a 
real  danger  of  further  complications  in  the  region. At 
the same time, Turkey has continued its illegal actions 
by concluding an agreement with the illegal regime in 
the occupied area of the Republic of Cyprus in order to 
pursue exploration within the exclusive economic zone 
of the Republic of Cyprus. 

From this rostrum, I wish to condemn that illegal 
act,  which  constitutes  a  provocation  not  only  for  the 
Republic  of  Cyprus  but  for  the  entire  international 
community.  Instead  of  adopting  a  constructive  stance 
in the negotiations for a speedy solution to the Cyprus 
problem, Turkey and the Turkish Cypriot leadership are 
trying 
faits 
accomplis.  Ankara’s 
threats  directed  at  a 
European  Union  (EU)  member  State  come  at  a  time 
when Turkey is seeking to open new chapters in its EU 
accession negotiations. 

the 
permanent and non-permanent members of the Security 
Council,  and  to  the  European  Union,  for  the  clear 
position  they  have  taken  in  defending  the  sovereign 
rights  of  the  Republic  of  Cyprus.  We  call  on  the 
Security  Council, 
the  United 
Nations  in  general  to  impress  upon  the  Turkish 
leadership  that  any  threat  to  or  violation  of  the 
sovereignty  of 
the  Republic  of  Cyprus,  or  any 
continuing violation of international and European law, 
will not be tolerated. 

We  are  fully  committed  to  continuing  to  work 
towards  a  solution  of  the  Cyprus  problem,  within  the 
agreed  framework  and  on  the  basis  of  the  agreed 
process, as soon as possible. Considering that it is first 
and  foremost  the  Cypriot  people  who  are  suffering 
from the continuing occupation, it is only natural for us 
to  demonstrate  goodwill  and  exert  all  our  efforts  to 
reach  a  just,  viable  and  functional  solution  to  the 
to  express  our  gratitude 
the  Secretariat  and 
tension  and  new, 
to  create 
We  wish 
illegal 
latest 
to 
2 

11-50865 
to 
The 
under 
United 
to  work 
inhabitants, 
implementation  of 
We  will  continue 


Cyprus  problem  and  for  the  reunification  of  the  State 
and our people. 

strengthen 
cooperation  and  trust  between  Greek  and  Turkish 
Cypriots. A  rapprochement  of  the  two  communities  is 
integral  to  our  policy.  We  are  continuing  with  our 
initiatives  aimed  at  creating  the  conditions  conducive 
to a solution. We recall our proposal for the restitution 
of  Famagusta  —  a  European  city,  uninhabited  since 
1974  as  a  result  of  the  Turkish  occupation  —  to  its 
lawful 
Nations 
administration.  Our  proposal  also  includes  the  use  of 
the  city’s  port  by  Turkish  Cypriots  under  EU 
supervision.  

this  proposal  will 
significantly  boost  negotiations  and  increase  trust 
between the two communities; that will also lead to the 
unfreezing  of  negotiations  chapters  in  Turkey’s  EU 
accession  process.  We  recall  that  the  handover  of  the 
uninhabited  area  of  Famagusta  to  United  Nations 
administration, and the return of its lawful inhabitants, 
is called for in Security Council resolution 550 (1984), 
which Turkey refuses to implement. 
We  would  like  to  express  our  gratitude  to  the 

United  Nations,  under  whose  auspices 
talks 
between the leaders of the two communities are being 
carried  out.  We  thank  the  Security  Council  and  the 
Secretary-General himself for his good offices.  

It is to the Secretary-General’s credit that during 
his  recent  meetings  with  the  leaders  of  the  two 
communities he persistently sought reaffirmation of the 
basis  for  the  negotiations  from  both  sides.  He  has 
referred  specifically  to  Security  Council  resolution 
1251  (1999),  which  provides  that  the  solution  to  the 
Cyprus  problem  shall  be  a  bi-zonal,  bi-communal 
federation  with  political  equality,  as  defined  in  the 
Security  Council  resolutions:  a  State  with  a  single 
sovereignty,  a 
single 
international personality, excluding any form of union, 
in  whole  or  in  part,  with  any  other  country  as  well  as 
any form of partition or secession. That is the basis that 
the United Nations continues to support. 
We  are  also  grateful  that  the  Secretary-General 

has asked for the reaffirmation of the convergences that 
were  previously  agreed  on  in  the  framework  of  the 
talks. As I have mentioned, the Turkish Cypriot leader 
has  unfortunately  retreated  from  previous  agreements 
of  fundamental  importance.  We  believe  that  the  only 
single  citizenship  and  a 
the 
A/66/PV.15
international 
way  to  move  forward  and  reach  a  solution  as  soon  as 
possible  is  by  upholding  the  commitments  that  both 
sides have undertaken in the presence of the Secretary-
General. Negotiations should be carried out on a clear 
basis and without backtracking. 

The  long-standing  dispute  in  the  Middle  East  is 
now  characterized  by  frozen  negotiations.  It  is  vitally 
important  that  the  peace  process  be  resumed  on  the 
basis  of  the  principles  established  by  the  international 
community  in  its  resolutions.  Cyprus  supports  the 
resumption  of  negotiations  and  calls  on  both  sides  to 
engage  with  honesty  and  goodwill,  without  creating 
new faits accomplis.  

Israelis and Palestinians alike deserve a peaceful, 
stable  and  secure  future  within  a  framework  of  two 
independent  States.  We  maintain  our  principled 
position  for  a  free  and  independent  Palestinian  State, 
next to the State of Israel, within the 1967 borders.  
It  has  been  10  years  since  the  attacks  on  the 

World  Trade  Center  here 
in  New  York.  Cyprus 
continues  to  support  the  collective  efforts  of  the 
international community, based on international law, to 
eliminate 
the 
implementation  of  the  necessary  measures,  including 
the  adoption  of  a  comprehensive  convention  on 
international terrorism. 
Most countries in the world are still in the grip of 

the global financial crisis. This crisis proves that a new 
model  of  growth  must  prevail,  focused  on  reducing 
social 
and 
safeguarding the rights of workers and all other people. 
Special  emphasis  must  be  given 
fairer 
distribution  of  social  goods,  such  as  health  and 
education,  and  to  ending  the  market’s  impunity  and 
lack  of  regulation.  Emphasis  must  also  be  given  to 
as 
dealing  with 
unemployment, 
social 
marginalization — problems that cause social tensions 
and  conflicts  in  a  number  of  countries  in  Europe  and 
the world. 

There  can  be  no  doubt  that  building  prosperity 
and  global  stability  on  solid  foundations  cannot  be 
accomplished  without  protecting  the  environment  and 
our  planet  and  promoting  the  sustainable  use  of  its 
resources.  

In conclusion, I wish to stress that there is no way 
to  deal  with  the  challenges  facing  humankind  today 
social 
delinquency, 
terrorism.  We  support 
repercussions, 
inequalities, 
eradicating 
poverty 
crime 
such 
and 
to 
the 
11-50865 

3 

A/66/PV.15 

other than collective action. We will succeed only if we 
realize that our future must be characterized by mutual 
respect,  the  fairer  distribution  and  redistribution  of 
global  wealth,  social  progress  and  equality,  and  the 
prevalence of international law and human rights.  
the  General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Cyprus for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Demetris  Christofias,  President  of 
the 
Republic  of  Cyprus,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 


Address by Mr. Jakaya Mrisho Kikwete, President of 
the United Republic of Tanzania 
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

address  by  the  President  of  the  United  Republic  of 
Tanzania. 

Mr.  Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete,  President  of  the 
United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  was  escorted  into 
the General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete, 
President  of  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Kikwete:  I  congratulate  you,  Sir,  on 

your well-deserved election as President of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-sixth session. My delegation has 
full  confidence  in  you,  and  we  assure  you  of  our  full 
support and cooperation. I also thank and congratulate 
your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Joseph Deiss, for 
very ably steering the affairs of the sixty-fifth session. 
A  lot  has  been  achieved,  which,  I  have  no  doubt,  you 
will consolidate and advance. 

Allow  me  also  to  take  this  opportunity  to  extend 
my heartfelt congratulations to our illustrious Secretary-
General, His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-Moon, on his well-
deserved  second  mandate.  His  reappointment  reaffirms 
the trust that we have in him and in his leadership skills. 
It  is  also  recognition  of  his  dedicated  service  to  the 
United Nations and humankind as a whole. 

Once  again,  I  congratulate  and  welcome  the 
newest  member  of  the  United  Nations  family,  the 
Republic  of  South  Sudan,  and  assure 
them  of 
Tanzania’s continued friendship and cooperation. 

This year the United Republic of Tanzania, which 
is  a  union  between  two  sovereign  States  —  the 
People’s  Republic  of  Zanzibar  and  the  Republic  of 
Tanganyika  —  will  celebrate  50  years  of 
the 
independence of Tanganyika. We will also celebrate 50 
years of our membership in the United Nations. I stand 
before  the Assembly  today,  50  years  later,  to  reiterate 
that  same  faith  in,  and  that  same  commitment  to,  the 
United  Nations  as  expressed  by  the  founders  of  our 
dear  nation.  I  am  proud  that  Tanzania  has  remained 
faithful  to  the  ideals  of  the  United  Nations,  and  is  a 
proactive Member of this body. We promise to stay the 
course for the next 50 years and beyond. 

The people of Tanzania are happy to have had the 
opportunity  to  contribute  to  maintaining  peace  and 
security in Africa and other parts of the world. We have 
always believed that mediation, conflict prevention and 
pacific  settlement  of  disputes  are  the  best  means  of 
resolving  conflicts.  As  a  result,  Tanzania  has  been  in 
the forefront of mediation efforts to resolve conflicts in 
the countries around us, in our region and elsewhere on 
the continent. 

Our  country  also  has  been  contributing  troops, 
police,  corrections  officers  and  civilian  personnel  to 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions  and  through 
regional and sub-regional arrangements. We promise to 
continue to do so wherever and whenever asked. More 
important,  we  are  humbled  to  have  had  the  rare 
opportunity 
together  with 
Denmark, that lead to the creation of the Peacebuilding 
Commission in 2006. 

We are also proud to have had, in the 50 years of 
our membership in the United Nations, the opportunity 
to contribute to the decolonization of Africa and other 
parts  of  the  world.  At  independence,  the  founding 
father of our nation, the late Mwalimu Julius Nyerere, 
said 
independence  of  our  country  was 
incomplete until all countries of Africa were free.  

That  guided  Tanzania  to  strongly  oppose  all 
forms 
racial 
discrimination on the African continent and elsewhere. 
It  also  informed  our  resolve  to  help  our  brothers  and 
sisters  who  were  fighting  for  their  independence  and 
freedom  in  Africa.  We  had  the  honour  of  hosting  the 
headquarters  of  the  African  Liberation  Committee  in 
Dar-es-Salaam  until 
and 
minority rule had been dismantled.  
colonialism, 
colonialism, 
apartheid 
to  pioneer 
the  efforts, 
apartheid 
that 
the 
of 
and 
4 

11-50865 



We gave sanctuary as well as moral and material 
support  to  almost  all  the  liberation  movements  of 
Southern Africa. Here at the United Nations, Tanzania 
was  afforded  the  rare  honour  of  chairing  the  United 
Nations  Special  Committee  on  Decolonization  from 
1972  to  1980.  That  was  the  critical  phase  in  the 
decolonization  of  Africa  and  in  the  struggle  against 
apartheid and minority rule. It is heart-warming indeed 
to  see  our  efforts,  sacrifices  and  contributions  being 
rewarded  so  handsomely  with  the  independence  of  all 
African  countries  and  with  apartheid  having  been 
dismantled in South Africa.  

Only Western Sahara remains outstanding. I hope 
the United Nations will expedite the process so that the 
Saharawi people can determine their future peacefully. 

We believed at independence, as we believe now 
and always will believe, that all human beings are born 
equal  and  deserve  equal  protection  of  their  civil, 
political,  economic,  social  and  cultural  rights,  as 
outlined  in  what  has  come  to  be  known  as  the 
International  Bill  of  Rights.  This  guides  what  we  are 
doing  at  home,  with  regard  to  promoting  democracy, 
the  rule  of  law,  human  rights,  including  personal 
freedoms, among them the freedom of expression. 

It is in this spirit also that I wish to reaffirm our 
solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  people  in  their  rightful 
quest for an independent homeland. Our plea is for the 
fulfilment  of  the  vision  of  two  States:  the  State  of 
Israel  and  a  sovereign,  independent,  democratic  and 
viable  State  of  Palestine,  living  side  by  side  in  peace 
and  harmony.  That  is  why  we  also  remain  in  full 
solidarity  with  the  people  of  Cuba  in  demanding  the 
end  to  the  embargo.  It  is  perhaps  the  longest-lasting 
embargo 
three 
countries —  Israel,  Palestine  and  Cuba  —  have 
suffered  for  far  too  long.  It  is  time  their  burdens  are 
eased. 

Our  other  goal  was  and  still  is  the  attainment  of 
African unity. We believe in the strength of unity for us 
to  be  able  to  effectively  face  up  to  and  overcome  the 
daunting 
development 
challenges  facing  our  continent.  It  was  in  pursuit  of 
this  ideal  that  on  26  April  1964,  Zanzibar  and 
Tanganyika  merged  to  form  the  United  Republic  of 
Tanzania. We will never tire in our efforts towards the 
realization  of  the  dream  of  the  founding  fathers  of  a 
United  States  of  Africa.  However,  we  are  mindful  of 
the fact that this will be a gradual process and regional 
in  history.  The  people 
political, 
in 
these 
security 
and 
A/66/PV.15
economic integration and regional groupings will be its 
foundation and the building blocks. 

After  50  years  of  independence  and  50  years  of 
our  membership  of  the  United  Nations,  Tanzania 
remains  a  firm  believer  in  the  indispensability  of 
multilateralism.  It  is  through  multilateralism  that  we 
can bring all nations and therefore all peoples together 
to  shape  their  common  present  and  future  and  that  of 
the world they live in. It is through multilateralism that 
peace  and  development  will  be  guaranteed  for  all 
nations, through the pursuit of common values. It is for 
these  reasons  that  I  believe  the  United  Nations  is 
relevant today, as it was 66 years ago. It is for the same 
reasons  that  the  world  needs  the  other  multilateral 
institutions  for  global  economic,  social  and  political 
governance. 

Despite acknowledging the importance of various 
multilateral  institutions,  Tanzania  is  of  the  view  that 
they need to undergo serious reforms to overcome the 
serious  governance  deficits  within  them.  We  need 
reforms that will make them more representative — in 
particular,  reforms  that  will  increase  the  voices  of  the 
developing  countries.  The  original  structures  have 
ignored us. We should not allow this to continue. It is 
for  this  reason  that  Tanzania  supported  the  calls  for 
reforms  of  the  Bretton  Woods  institutions,  the  United 
Nations,  the  World  Trade  Organization  and  the  other 
multilateral institutions.  

With  regard  to  the  United  Nations,  we  should 
expedite the process of reforming the Security Council, 
in both categories, and in doing so include developing 
countries,  particularly  those  from  Africa,  Asia  and 
Latin America. It is sad to see that no serious progress 
has  been  made  for  close  to  two  decades.  Now  is  the 
time  for  us  to  start  serious  negotiations,  negotiate  in 
earnest and conclude at the earliest possible time. 

shared 
growth,  has  been  one  of  the  core  functions  of  the 
United  Nations.  It  is  pleasing  to  note  that  the  United 
Nations has remained steadfast in its discharge of this 
function through its agencies and through a number of 
initiatives  undertaken  by 
the  United  Nations 
Headquarters  itself.  United  Nations  leadership  has 
always been noticeable in all the major socio-economic 
challenges  facing  the  world:  sustainable  development, 
health  care,  maternal  and  child  health,  poverty,  food 
security,  education,  and  so  on.  This  involvement  and 
leadership  underscores  the  relevance  of  the  United 
Promoting  development,  particularly 
11-50865 

5 
to 
thank  and  commend 
those 

are 
economy.  Economies 
A/66/PV.15 

Nations  today  and  the  United  Nations  tomorrow  and 
the day after tomorrow. 

However,  the  good  intentions  of  the  United 
Nations  have  not  been  fully  realized.  Some  of  the 
developed countries have not met their commitments of 
allocating 0.7 per cent of their gross domestic product 
to  official  development  assistance.  Let  me  use  this 
opportunity  to  join  all  those  who  have  spoken  before 
me  in  repeating  our  appeal  to  developed  countries  to 
honour their commitments.  
I  believe  that  if  this  had  been  done,  we  would 

have  been  on  target  with  the  implementation  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  many  other 
important global matters.  I would also like to use this 
opportunity 
few 
developed countries that have kept their promise. May 
the  examples  of  these  countries  inform  and  encourage 
the others to do the same. 
We meet at a time of great uncertainties over the 

global 
still  weak, 
characterized by low growth in many major economies, 
high  levels  of  inflation,  unemployment,  increasing 
food and fuel prices and nervous financial markets. In 
a  globalized  world,  ripples  of  economic  and  financial 
crises in the developed economies affect all of us in the 
world.  And  for  us  from  poor  developing  countries, 
matter get even more complicated.  

As  we  all  call  for  concerted  global  action  to 
maintain economic stability and ensure that we do not 
head  into  another  global  recession,  I  appeal  to  the 
United  Nations  to  remain  seized  of  the  situation  and 
exercise its traditional leadership over global issues.  

This is a matter of great concern to us in Africa, a 
continent  that  has  experienced  extremely  challenging 
economic,  social  and  political  situations,  but  a 
continent  that  is  now  poised  to  go  to  the  next  level: 
from despair to hope and from lost decades to decades 
full of opportunities.  

Democracy is steadily on the march in Africa and 
the  Arab  Spring  has  capped  it  all.  Peace  is  reigning 
almost  all  over  the  continent.  There  are  no  serious 
conflict  situations  except  for  Somalia,  where  the 
serious involvement of the United Nations, the African 
Union  and  the  world  community  is  still  needed.  All 
that Africa needs now is continued support to build the 
institutions of democracy and governance, to build our 
economies and to overcome social challenges.  
6 


Among  the  challenges  demanding  the  serious 
attention of this body and the international community 
at large is the continued drought in the Horn of Africa 
and some countries of East Africa. The problem has not 
abated  and 
its  consequences  are  momentous,  as 
exemplified  by  the  ongoing  famine  in  Somalia.  It  is 
high time for more attention to be given to the situation 
in this part of Africa, for there is every indication and 
every  reason  to  believe  that  the  problem  is  escalating 
and  involving  more  countries.  Tanzania  is  already 
feeling the pressure of the crisis. 

Piracy  is  the  second  problem  in  our  part  of  the 
continent that I would like to mention here today. The 
problem  of  piracy  still  lingers  on  and  it  is,  in  fact, 
expanding.  We  are  now  witnessing  more  and  more 
attacks  taking  place  further  to  the  south  of  Somalia. 
They used to take place in the Gulf of Aden, but now 
the  attacks  are  moving  southward,  as  far  as Tanzania, 
Mozambique, the Comoros and Madagascar. Since last 
year,  when  piracy  activity  moved  to  our  territorial 
waters,  13  ships  have  been  attacked  and  five  of  them 
were successfully hijacked. These attacks have caused 
an  increase  in  the  cost  of  shipping  to  our  ports.  If  we 
do  not  succeed  in  stopping  them,  they  may  disrupt 
shipping  services  and 
impact  negatively  on  our 
economy.  We  need  the  support  of  the  international 
community to help us build capacity to fight piracy. We 
welcome  the  Assembly’s  readiness  to  assist  us  to 
improve  our  courts  and  prisons  to  try  and  punish  the 
pirates. But if a similar gesture were extended to us to 
build capacity to prevent attacks, there would be fewer 
pirates to bother us. 
Controversies continue to prevent progress on the 

draft  comprehensive  convention  on 
international 
terrorism.  The  more  we  delay,  the  more  sophisticated 
international  terrorism  becomes  in  its  strategies  and 
tactics. We recently witnessed events in Abuja in which 
the  United  Nations  was  attacked.  Tanzania  condemns 
these  cruel  acts  in  the  strongest  terms  possible  and 
expresses solidarity with the people of Nigeria and the 
United  Nations.  It  is  clear  that  the  struggle  against 
terrorism  must  remain  a  high  priority  for  the  United 
Nations. 
I  would  be  remiss  if  I  concluded  my  statement 

without  acknowledging  and  thanking  the  Secretary-
General  for  the  honour  he  accorded  me  and  my 
country,  Tanzania, 
last  year  when  he  formed  a 
Commission  on  Information  and  Accountability  for 
Women’s and Children’s Health. He appointed me and 
11-50865 


Prime  Minister  Stephen  Harper  of  Canada  to  co-chair 
the  Commission.  It  was  an  honour  to  serve  on  the 
Commission, and I hope that the recommendations we 
made will help to advance the cause of the noble work 
that  we  are  all  doing  to  save  the  lives  of  millions  of 
innocent  women  and  children  who  are  dying  from 
causes that can be prevented.  

I  end  as  I  began,  by  reaffirming  our  faith  in  the 
United  Nations,  a  true  embodiment  of  humanity.  We 
dedicate ourselves to respect the values and principles 
enshrined  in  our  Charter  and  we  shall  continue  to 
play —  as  we  have  always  have  done  during  our  first 
50 years as an independent State — a full, honest and 
constructive part in the work of the United Nations. 
the  General 

Assembly, I  wish to thank the President of the United 
Republic  of  Tanzania  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

Mr.  Jakaya  Mrisho  Kikwete,  President  of  the 
United  Republic  of  Tanzania,  was  escorted  from 
the General Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 


Address by His Majesty King Hamad bin Issa Al 
Khalifa, King of the Kingdom of Bahrain 
The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

will now hear an address by the King of the Kingdom 
of Bahrain. 

King  Hamad  bin  Issa  Al  Khalifa,  King  of  the 
Kingdom  of  Bahrain,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Majesty  King  Hamad  bin  Issa 
Al  Khalifa,  King  of  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
King  Hamad  bin  Issa  Al  Khalifa  (spoke  in 

Arabic):  It  gives  us  pleasure,  at  this  international 
forum, to greet our brothers and friends, the Heads of 
State,  Government  and  delegations  represented  in  this 
Hall.  We  hope  that  our  meetings  at  the  sixty-sixth 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  will  be  fruitful  and 
result  in  a  concrete  outcome  commensurate  with  our 
aspirations  for  a  global  environment  of  stability, 
security and lasting peace, and for the good and well-
being of humanity at large.  
A/66/PV.15
like 
We  would  also 

We are pleased to see yet another diplomat from 
the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council  presiding  over  the 
General  Assembly.  We  take  this  opportunity  to  offer 
our  sincere  wishes  of  every  success  to  Ambassador 
Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser in his international mission 
and  of  further  progress  and  advancement  at  all  levels 
for  his  country,  the  brotherly  State  of  Qatar.  We  also 
thank  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss,  for  his  able 
conduct of and contributions to the work of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-fifth session. 

to  express  our  deep 
appreciation to Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his 
ceaseless  efforts  to  strengthen  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations in maintaining international peace and security 
and  for  his  persistent  endeavours  to  achieve  the 
prerequisites  for  stability 
in  our  world,  namely, 
development  and  collective  international  cooperation 
for the benefit of the peoples of the world as a whole. 
We  also  seize  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  him  on 
his reappointment to a second term of office. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  the  world  has  entered  a 
new  era  of  important  changes  in  which  the  growth  of 
modern  means  of  communication  has  led  to  rapid  and 
unprecedented  transformations  in  the  world,  such  as 
those that we are now experiencing in our Arab region. 
More than a decade ago, we in the Kingdom of Bahrain 
recognized the need to proceed towards greater reform, 
improvement  and  advancement,  bearing  in  mind  the 
supreme interest of our people, in order to satisfy their 
demands  for  freedom  and  political  participation  —  a 
home-grown  participation  that  is  commensurate  with 
the heritage and history of each country and its level of 
development.  Reform  was  also  aimed  at  providing 
decent  living  conditions,  security  and  tranquillity  in  a 
society  that  enjoys  peaceful  coexistence,  equality  and 
equal opportunities for empowerment to achieve justice 
and sustainable development for all. 

and 
its  modernization 
throughout  its  long  history,  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain 
has  persistently  followed  the  approach  of  dialogue. 
Building  on  the  consensus  of  the  people  of  Bahrain 
around the provisions of the National Action Charter of 
2001,  we 
initiated  a  national  dialogue  process 
involving all sectors and components of the population. 
The  aim  was  to  absorb  the  requirements  of  modern 
progress,  guarantee  the  continuation  of  the  reform 
process,  and  fulfil  the  national  aspiration  to  move 
forward towards comprehensive modernization and the 
enhancement  of  popular  participation  in  decision-
endeavours 
In 
all 
11-50865 

7 
ever, 
the 
Today  more 
than 
equality,  progress 
A/66/PV.15 

making within an all-inclusive national partnership. We 
hereby  reaffirm  our  support  for  the  outcome  of  that 
dialogue. 

The  achievements  of  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain  at 
the  national  level  are  therefore  an  extension  of  a  long 
history dating back to the beginning of the last century, 
in which we have worked to achieve a society based on 
justice, 
and  openness.  The 
authenticity  of  our  people,  culture,  free  economy, 
political  development  and  firm  commitment  to  the 
universal  principles  of  human 
rights,  peaceful 
coexistence  and  respect  for  the  views  of  others 
constitute  the  real  wealth  of  our  country,  which  we 
seek to preserve and sustain for future generations. 

international 
community has a propitious opportunity to do justice to 
the  brotherly  Palestinian  people  and  to  help  them  to 
achieve  their  legitimate  aspirations  by  recognizing  an 
independent  Palestinian  State  on  their  own  national 
soil, with East Jerusalem as its capital. That would put 
an  end  to  an  era  of  bitter  Arab-Israeli  conflict, 
contingent  on  a  complete  Israeli  withdrawal  from  all 
occupied Arab territories to the lines of 4 June 1967 in 
Palestine,  the  occupied  Syrian  Arab  Golan  and  the 
occupied territories in southern Lebanon, in accordance 
with the relevant resolutions of international legitimacy 
and the Arab Peace Initiative. 

Committed  to  the  security  of  the  Arabian  Gulf 
region,  we  emphasize  the  need  to  resolve  the  issue  of 
the three occupied United Arab Emirates islands, either 
through  direct  negotiations  or  by  referral  to  the 
International  Court  of  Justice.  With 
to 
developments  in  the  brotherly  State  of  Yemen,  the 
Kingdom  of  Bahrain  supports  the  Gulf  Cooperation 
Council initiative for maintaining the security, stability 
and unity of that country and achieving the aspirations 
of its people. In this connection, we further emphasize 
the  importance  of  preserving  the  unity  of  Moroccan 
territory  and  of  resolving  the  issue  of  the  Moroccan 
Sahara,  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  Security 
Council resolutions. 

Consistent  with  its  commitment  to  concerted 
international  action  and  its  role  and  responsibilities  in 
our region, the Kingdom of Bahrain has never hesitated 
to contribute to and participate in the Contact Group on 
Libya  in  order  to  help  realize  the  aspirations  of  the 
Libyan  people  and  ensure  the  country’s  unity  and 
territorial integrity. 
regard 


Bahrain  is  also  participating  in  the  international 
peacekeeping forces in Afghanistan in order to support 
that country’s stability and security in every sphere —
political,  economic  and  security  —  as  well  as  in  the 
fight  against  international  terrorism  and  piracy  on  the 
high seas. Bahrain also shares in the friendly American 
people’s heartfelt pain and grief over the reprehensible 
terrorist attacks of 11 September 2001. Their resilience 
and determination, however, have helped to make their 
country a safer place. 

As  a  peace-loving  nation,  Bahrain  will  remain 
faithful  to  this  Organization  for  its  historic  role  in 
supporting  our  country’s  sovereignty,  and  for  the  role 
of  its  judiciary  in  ending  inter-State  disputes  all  over 
the  world,  all  in  the  interest  of  global  stability  and 
development. 

We  believe  that  humankind  in  general  and  the 
international  community  have  much  to  gain  at  the 
global  level  from  the  contributions  of  Arab-Islamic 
civilization,  as  have  other  civilizations  throughout 
history.  Arab  Muslims,  Christians,  Jews  and  other 
followers  of  other  religions  and  beliefs  can  coexist 
only in a state of civility based on tolerance. We speak 
here in light of the experience of our country, Bahrain, 
which, with its characteristic openness and civilization 
deeply  rooted  in  history,  has  from  time  immemorial 
been  a  symbol  of  coexistence  and  interaction  between 
these  human  contributions.  Hence  its  position  since 
early  times  as  a  cultural  and  spiritual  centre  in  its 
natural and human environment in the Arabian Gulf — 
a  position  on  which  it  has  built  a  civil  society  and 
fomented  a  modern  renaissance 
the  areas  of 
administrative  organization,  economic  activity,  and  an 
educational and cultural enlightenment. 

While  Bahrain  appreciates  the  support  of  the 
United  Nations  and  its  specialized  agencies  for  its 
achievements, as evidenced by the numerous awards it 
has won in various human and social fields, we stress 
the  great  importance  of  the  global  issues  discussed  in 
the  Secretary-General’s  annual  report  on  the  work  of 
the Organization (A/66/1). We  are  convinced that it is 
imperative  that  all  Member  States  cooperate  on  issues 
such  as  climate  change,  international  health,  drought, 
poverty alleviation, disarmament, the non-proliferation 
of  nuclear  weapons  and  the  fight  against  terrorism. 
This is more urgent than ever before, given the scale of 
the challenges and problems facing humankind, so that 
we  can  create  a  new  world  of  security,  peace, 
tranquillity and prosperity. 
in 
11-50865 
8 




In conclusion, we reaffirm our commitment to the 
principles  and  purposes  of  the  United  Nations  and  its 
constructive  role  in  consolidating  peace,  love  and 
prosperity in the world. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the King of the 
Kingdom  of  Bahrain  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made, and for his kind words addressed to me. 

His  Majesty  King  Hamad  bin  Issa  Al  Khalifa, 
King  of  the  Kingdom  of  Bahrain,  was  escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Alassane Ouattara, President of the 
Republic of Côte d’Ivoire 
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of  Côte 
d’Ivoire. 

Mr. Alassane Ouattara, President of the Republic 
of  Côte  d’Ivoire,  was  escorted  into  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Alassane  Ouattara, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Côte  d’Ivoire,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
President Ouattara (spoke in French): In taking 

the floor for the first time before this Assembly, I offer 
my heartfelt thanks to the international community and 
all the friendly countries that had faith in our struggle 
for  democracy,  and  whose  support  never  failed  us 
during  the  painful  and  trying  post-electoral  crisis  in 
Côte d’Ivoire. 

to 
congratulate  you  warmly,  as  other  speakers  before  me 
have  done,  on  your  outstanding  election 
the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth 
session,  which  attests  to  the  recognition  of  your 
remarkable  contribution  to  expanding  the  influence  of 
the  Organization  and  promoting  its  ideals.  We  assure 
you  of  my  delegation’s  full  support  in  carrying  out 
your  mandate.  I  would  also  like  to  convey  to  your 
predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Joseph Deiss, my full 
appreciation  and 
that  of  my  delegation  for  his 
remarkable  work  and  encouraging  results  during  his 
presidency. 
Please  also  allow  me,  Mr.  President, 
to 
A/66/PV.15
the  heart  of 

I  would  further  like  to  make  a  special  mention 
here  of  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his 
determined  commitment  and  tireless  efforts  on  behalf 
of world peace, earning him deserved reappointment to 
a  second  term  at  the  head  of  the  United  Nations.  In 
reiterating  my  warm  congratulations  upon  your 
re-election,  I would also like to reaffirm, on behalf of 
the  Ivorian  people  and  Government,  as  well  as 
personally,  our  profound  gratitude  and  thanks  for  the 
crucial  role  the  United  Nations  and  you  personally 
played in resolving the Ivorian crisis. 
I  note  with  satisfaction  that,  for  the  first  time  in 

history, 
a  woman  —  Ms.  Dilma  Rousseff, 
democratically  elected  in  2010  to  lead  Brazil  — 
opened our general debate. I celebrate this fact. 

The theme chosen for this session — “The role of 
mediation  in  the  settlement  of  disputes  by  peaceful 
to  place  our 
means”  —  demonstrates  our  will 
Organization  at 
international  crisis 
resolution.  It  also  focuses 
the  attention  of  our 
Assembly on one of the main missions entrusted to the 
United  Nations  — 
the  use  and  promotion  of 
negotiations  in  the  resolutions  of  conflicts,  whose 
proliferation  and  gravity  have  posed  an  unrelenting 
threat  to  the  balance  and  progress  of  humankind  in 
recent years. The implementation of such an approach 
in international relations calls for resolute involvement 
and solidarity on the part of Member States in seeking 
negotiated solutions to current and potential disputes at 
the  international,  regional  and  subregional  levels.  In 
this  regard,  I  welcome  the  independence  of  South 
Sudan and its admission as the 193rd State Member of 
the United Nations. 

The  recent  history  of  peoples  underscores  the 
virtues  of  dialogue  and  negotiation  for  resolving  even 
the  most  complex  conflicts,  as  proven  by 
the 
dismantling  of  apartheid  and  the  progress,  albeit 
modest,  in  the  settlement  of  the  Israeli-Palestinian 
crisis. 

This is a theme close to our hearts, as the father 
of  the  Ivorian  nation,  President  Félix  Houphouët-
Boigny,  left  his  mark  on  the  history  of  Côte  d’Ivoire 
and  the  entire  African  continent  as  a  result  of  his 
pragmatic  approach  to  resolving  conflicts  through 
dialogue.  The  UNESCO  Félix  Houphouët-Boigny 
Peace  Prize  attests  to  and  represents  the  international 
community’s  recognition  of  his  efforts  to  promote 
peace.  I  am  therefore  honoured  and  proud  to  make  a 
11-50865 

9 

A/66/PV.15 

commitment to follow in the footsteps of the approach 
promoted  by  that  apostle  disciple  of  dialogue  and 
peace. In this context, my country is fully ready, as in 
the past, to tirelessly promote the option of negotiation 
to resolve and prevent conflicts and safeguard peace — 
a prerequisite for all social and economic development 
in the world. 

The much sought prize of peace, even through the 
appropriate routes of consultation and dialogue, cannot 
be  achieved  without  more  balanced  and 
fairer 
economic development in our world. In this regard, the 
economic and financial crisis that has shaken the world 
for three years and whose consequences are still being 
felt,  especially 
in  developing  countries,  demands 
action, even as growth becomes more apparent in some 
regions. This  trend  has  been  growing  since  2010,  due 
in  part  to  the  economic  performance  of  emerging  and 
developing  countries,  must  absolutely  be  consolidated 
if we want to sustainably prevent the relapse of such a 
crisis.  

Nevertheless,  strong  economic  growth  is  not 
enough to guarantee security and stability in our world. 
It must necessarily be accompanied by transparent and 
equitable  access  to  employment,  especially  for  young 
people,  security  and  justice  if  we  truly  want  to  break 
the cycles of  political and criminal violence. We must 
therefore urgently adopt a new model for development 
based  on  environmental  constraints  that  ensures  that 
the  needs  of  the  population  for  employment,  security 
and justice are met. Such a challenge can be overcome 
only through solidarity. 

The  food,  energy  and  environmental  crises  and 
natural  disasters,  which  have  become  ever  more 
frequent  and  serious  due  to  the  effects  of  climate 
change,  demonstrate  that  the  balance  of  human  life, 
despite  the  immense  progress  achieved  in  a  great 
number of areas, remains fragile. They also underscore 
how  closely  the  fates  of  the  peoples  of  the  world  are 
linked,  as  no  geographic,  racial  or  religious  division 
can  withstand  either  the  occurrence  or  the  negative 
effects 
our 
responsibilities  to  our  people  and,  above  all,  to 
humankind  as  a  whole,  we  must  therefore  join  forces 
through  the  multilateral  framework  to  seek  innovative 
and  effective  solutions  to  these  crises  and  other 
catastrophes,  which  pose  a  real  threat  to  international 
peace and security. 
phenomena.  Aware 
these 
of 
of 
transnational 
for  our  Organization,  given 

In  this  regard,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  the 
compassion  of  the  people  and  Government  of  Côte 
d’Ivoire  to  the  victims  of  natural  disasters,  especially 
in Japan, the Caribbean and the United States. I extend 
special  and  brotherly  sympathy  to  the  peoples  of  the 
Horn of Africa, who are suffering the grave  effects of 
famine as a result of an extended drought. 

Faced  with  these  humanitarian  tragedies,  the 
political  commitment  of  all  States  Members  of  the 
United  Nations 
indispensable.  My  delegation 
therefore  welcomes  the  initiatives  undertaken  by  the 
international  community  —  especially  the  French 
presidency  of  the  Group  of  20,  and  the  specialized 
institutions  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  African 
Union — to meet the immediate needs of the affected 
populations. 

International peace and security remain a cause of 
major  concern 
the 
proliferation  of  armed  conflicts,  nuclear 
threats, 
terrorist 
crime, 
human 
trafficking,  drug  trafficking  and  pandemics.  All  of 
these  hamper  the  world’s  harmonious  development, 
especially  in  Africa,  which,  riven  by  many  areas  of 
tension,  struggles  to  ensure  its  economic  and  social 
development despite its enormous potential. 
The  United  Nations  has  a  role  to  play  in 

strengthening 
is 
indispensable  as  we  seek  effective  and  appropriate 
solutions to these crises. This requires the mobilization 
of 
and 
development  in  the  areas  of  food  crop  production, 
renewable energy and sustainable development. To that 
end,  a  substantial  reduction  in  military  spending  is 
required,  allowing  such  resources  to  be  found.  Such  a 
sacrifice would be very useful towards the survival of 
mankind. 

Aware  of  these  crises,  since  taking  office  I  have 
sought 
the  security  of  my  country. 
Discussions  are  nearing  completion  on 
tripartite 
agreements  with 
particularly 
Liberia — with which one has already been signed — 
Ghana  and  Guinea,  with  the  support  of  the  High 
Commissioner  for  Refugees  and  United  Nations 
peacekeepers  present  in  the  region.  These  agreements 
seek to ensure the voluntary and rapid return of Ivorian 
refugees  from  those  brotherly  countries  and  to  protect 
our eastern and western borders from the movement of 
international  solidarity 
to  enhance 
neighbours, 
adequate 
resources 
to 
fund 
research 
the 
that 
is 
activity, 
our 
10 

11-50865 
terrorism.  The  recent  ratification  of 


armed  groups,  drug  trafficking  and  traffic  in  precious 
metals. 

Negotiations are also under way with our Western 
partners  to  ensure  that  Côte  d’Ivoire  becomes  a 
bulwark  of  regional  defence  and  security  in  the  fight 
against 
the 
Optional  Protocol  to  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of 
the  Child  on  the  involvement  of  children  in  armed 
conflict  reinforces  our  firm  resolve  to  use  all  legal 
means to combat violence and to protect the security of 
our  most  vulnerable  people,  particularly  women  and 
children. 

The  outcome  of  the  social  and  political  conflict 
that began in Côte d’Ivoire in 2002 marks the return of 
democracy to our country, based on the promise of the 
rule of law and a society that shares the common ideals 
of peace and respect for human rights. For that reason, 
coexistence  is  the  cornerstone  of  my  Government’s 
programme.  As  soon  as  I  took  office,  I  established 
national  reconciliation  as  one  of  our  priorities  by 
creating  a  Dialogue,  Truth  and  Reconciliation 
Commission  designed  to  create  conditions  conducive 
to dialogue among all levels of society in order to heal 
the  wounds  of  the  crisis,  re-knit  the  social  fabric, 
restore  national  cohesion  and  promote  peace  and 
justice. 

is 
responsible for making those principles the basis for its 
activities,  is  working  tirelessly  to  ensure  social  and 
economic  recovery  towards  the  reconstruction  Côte 
d’Ivoire.  Thus,  the  President’s  emergency  programme 
launched in March, while I was at the Golf Hotel, has 
already  had  favourable  results  for  the  people  of  Côte 
d’Ivoire,  particularly  those  of  Abidjan,  who  suffered 
pillage  and  property  destruction.  The  programme  is 
focused 
improving  basic  social 
services,  especially  the  provision  of  drinking  water, 
health care, education, electricity and public sanitation, 
which  are  major  challenges  that  must  be  met  as  we 
attempt 
to  achieve  our  Millennium  Development 
Goals. 

The  organization  of  parliamentary  elections 
before  the  end  of  this  year  will  allow  us  to  enhance 
democracy and social justice in Côte d’Ivoire, with the 
support  and  assistance  of  the  United  Nations  through 
Security  Council  resolution  2000  (2011)  of  27  July 
2011,  which  demonstrates  again  the  Organization’s 
determination to support Côte d’Ivoire until the end of 
the  Government,  which 
in  particular  on 
Furthermore, 
A/66/PV.15
the  crisis  as  provided  by  the  Ouagadougou  Political 
Agreement. 

The  socio-political  crisis  in  Côte  d’Ivoire  over 
the  past  10  years  has  undermined  the  economic  and 
social  development  of  my  country.  It  is  my  ambition, 
as  we  approach  2020,  to  make  Côte  d’Ivoire  an 
emerging  nation,  reconciled  with  itself  and  with  other 
nations  and  united  by  republican  values;  a  modern 
State  that  respects  the  independence  of  the  judiciary 
and will combat impunity and ensure the promotion of 
merit and competence. 

In closing on this note of hope for my country, I 
call for the determined and ongoing involvement of all 
States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  pursuit, 
through  dialogue  and  cooperation,  of  collective, 
effective  and  lasting  solutions  that  will  create  a  better 
world based  on more harmonious and  secure forms  of 
development. 
Côte d’Ivoire, which in the past was often called 

on  to  help  in  the  quest  for  peaceful  solutions  to 
conflicts,  intends  to  take  up  this  vocation  once  again. 
This  is  a  natural  mission  for  us  in  many  respects, 
because  Côte  d’Ivoire,  as  Félix  Houphouët-Boigny 
said, is the friend of all and the enemy of none.  
the  General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Côte d’Ivoire for the statement he has just made. 

Mr. Alassane Ouattara, President of the Republic 
of  Côte  d’Ivoire,  was  escorted  from  the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 


The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
Address by Mr. Sebastián Piñera Echeñique, 
President of the Republic of Chile 

address by the President of the Republic of Chile.  

Mr. Sebastián Piñera Echeñique, President of the 
Republic of Chile, was escorted into the General 
Assembly Hall.  
The  President:  On  behalf  of 

the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Sebastián  Piñera 
Echeñique,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Chile,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
President Piñera Echeñique (spoke in Spanish): 

I  wish  at  the  outset  to  congratulate  Mr.  Ban  Ki-Moon 
on his recent  reappointment as Secretary-General, and 
11-50865 

11 

in 
In 
this  meeting  of 
A/66/PV.15 

you, Mr. President, on your election to preside over the 
sixty-sixth session of the General Assembly.  

the  United  Nations,  a 
multiplicity  of  countries  and  ethnicities,  cultures  and 
languages,  religions  and  creeds  converges.  All  are 
increasingly  connected 
this  globalized  world, 
because over and above our legitimate differences, we 
all live on the same planet, all breathe the same air and 
are  all  warmed  by  the  same  sun.  As  inhabitants  of 
planet  Earth,  we  share  the  same  future.  We  share 
similar challenges and opportunities. All of us have the 
same desire for peace, freedom, justice  and prosperity 
for our peoples and nations. 

I  come  before  the  Assembly  to  express,  with 
humble conviction, what my country has to say to the 
international  community.  But  I  have  also  come  to 
listen,  carefully  and  respectfully, 
to  what  other 
countries have to say to our country. Chile is, and will 
always  be,  proud  to  defend  and  promote  dialogue  as 
the  best  mechanism  for  dealing  with  and  settling 
disputes.  Chile  profoundly  believes  that  all  nations, 
cultures, traditions and creeds have something to teach 
us. But we  also believe that we  all have something to 
learn from others. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  we  are  facing  a  new 
world —  very  different  from  the  one  we,  or  our 
parents,  have  known  and  which  emerged  forcefully 
during  the  past  decades:  a  new  world  born  of  the 
revolutions of knowledge, technology and information 
that has created, and will continue to create, enormous 
opportunities  for  material  and  spiritual  progress  for 
billions  of  people 
the  world  — 
opportunities the world has never known.  

It  is  also  certain  that  this  new  world  presents  us 
with  new  risks,  challenges,  threats  and  opportunities 
that exceed any Government’s individual potential and 
can  only  be  addressed  successfully  through  joint 
action.  For  example,  financial  crises,  in  addition  to 
becoming  more  frequent  each  day,  have  increasing 
regional  and  global 
that  cannot  be 
ignored. The evils of modern society, such as terrorism, 
drug  trafficking  and  organized  crime,  have  for  a  long 
time ceased to heed borders, territories or jurisdictions. 
Any  attempt  to  deal  effectively  with  global  warming, 
environmental  protection,  natural  disasters,  health 
emergencies,  hunger  and  extreme  poverty  will  most 
certainly require greater concerted and effective action 
from  the  community  of  nations  and  international 
implications 
throughout 
to 
the 
today 
it 
effective 
responses 
is  urgent 
Consequently, 
bodies if we truly want to begin to change the course of 
history.  

that  we 
reposition  ourselves  and  reshape  each  international 
organization,  many  of  which  emerged  in  a  very 
different  world,  during  the  post-war  period.  Today,  as 
we  all  know,  they  lack  the  ability  to  provide  the 
necessary 
realities, 
challenges and opportunities of the present, as well as 
those of the future that are beginning to emerge. There 
is no doubt that we have achieved significant progress, 
but  we  understand  that  it  has  been  too  slow  and 
insufficient. We cannot pretend to lead this new world 
with old institutions. One day our children will ask us 
how to face these challenges. In the end, these are our 
challenges and we must deal with them now. If we do 
not, then who will? If not now, then when? 

While it is true that this revolution of knowledge, 
technology  and  information  is  not  the  first  revolution 
the world has faced, all of us know that it is the most 
far-reaching  in  magnitude  and  breadth,  both  in  terms 
challenges  and  the  opportunities  it  has  provided.  But 
like the revolutions of the past — of metals, agriculture 
or the industrial revolution — this twenty-first century 
revolution will be very generous vis-à-vis the countries 
with  the  desire  to  embrace  it  enthusiastically.  But  the 
revolution  will  continue  to  be  indifferent,  and  even 
cruel, to those countries that decide simply to ignore it 
or let it pass by. It will therefore depend on us whether 
it will become a factor for freedom, unity and progress 
and  a  bridge  to  span  the  gap  between  developed 
countries  and  emerging  nations  or,  on  the  contrary,  a 
new  factor  of  division  and  a  new  wall  further 
separating  those  countries  in  the  world  of  opportunity 
from those in the world of frustrations. 

Certainly, the primary responsibility for rising up 
to greet this revolution that is already knocking at our 
doors 
is  also  a 
responsibility  for  the  international  community.  In  the 
case of the emerging countries, which include all those 
in  Latin  America,  including  my  country,  Chile,  this 
signifies, in addition to a huge responsibility, a unique 
opportunity 
re-identify  with  our  past.  Most 
important,  it  is  an  opportunity  to  meet  up  with  our 
that  Latin  America  —  now 
future.  It 
independence  —  has 
celebrating  200  years  of 
to  overcome  poverty  and 
everything 
underdevelopment.  We  have  a 
large  and  fertile 
two  closely 
territory,  abundant  natural  resources, 
lies  with  each  country.  But 
it  needs 
is  clear 
it 
to 
12 

11-50865 
the 
and 
knowledge 
source  of  progress 


related  languages  and,  most  important,  peoples  who 
have  demonstrated,  with  solidarity  and  vigour,  their 
ability to overcome any obstacle placed in our way by 
nature or by Providence. We have not had wars such as 
those  experienced  by  Europe  in  the  past  century,  or 
ethnic  or  religious  conflicts  such  as  those  affecting 
other regions of the world.  

Nevertheless,  because  we  did  not  know  how  to 
join  the  industrial  revolution  in  time,  our  continent 
remains  underdeveloped,  with  more  than  one  third  of 
its population living in conditions of poverty. However, 
Latin  America  has  learned  the  lesson  and  is  today 
becoming  integrated  with  enormous  conviction  into 
this  new  revolution  of  modern  society,  science, 
technology, 
information.  This 
integration  will  be  successful  only  if  we  are  able  to 
promote  and  expand  what  has  been,  and  continues  to 
be, 
inexhaustible 
for 
humankind — freedom. 

Freedom  is  an  integral  concept  that  cannot  be 
divided  or  compartmentalized.  Freedom  must  be 
expressed in all spheres of human life. In the political 
sphere, 
to  revitalize  and  deepen 
democracy  and  the  defence  of  human  rights  to  the 
farthest corner of the planet and at any moment in time. 
In the economic sphere, this means fostering creativity, 
entrepreneurship and innovation among human beings, 
who  are  the  only  truly  inexhaustible  and  renewable 
resource  we  possess.  We  must  demolish  all  of  the 
obstacles  that  are  preventing  many  emerging  nations 
from  fully  integrating  themselves  into  the  newly 
emerging  world.  In  the  social  sphere,  freedom  means 
promoting  peace  and  helping  States  to  become  ever 
more efficient and effective in the fight against poverty 
and in the creation of real societies that provide equal 
opportunities for all. 

Chile has undoubtedly made, and will continue to 
make,  important  contributions  to  each  of  those  areas. 
As well as strongly supporting the cause of democracy 
and  defending  human  rights  in  all  countries  of  the 
continent and of the world, where necessary, Chile has, 
at  the  regional  level,  been  a  tireless  and  steadfast 
advocate of improving the Inter-American Democratic 
Charter  and  of  finalizing  a  protocol  on  the  preventive 
protection  of  democracy  within  the  Union  of  South 
American Nations. 

In addition, we continue to actively participate in 
the negotiations on the reform of the Security Council 
it  requires  us 
A/66/PV.15
towards 
resolutely 
soon.  We  have 
to increase its permanent and non-permanent members 
in order to make it more representative of the realities 
of  the  new  world  order.  We  have  also  supported  the 
reform  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  to  which  Chile 
was recently re-elected. 

With  regard  to  economic  issues,  Chile  is  a 
country  that  has  integrated  into  the  world  and  has 
concluded  free  trade  agreements  with  more  than  58 
countries  on  all  continents,  representing  more  than 
80 per  cent  of  the  world’s  population.  However,  our 
commitment to free trade does not stop there. We have 
been strong supporters of the Doha Round of the World 
Trade  Organization  so  as  to  make  progress,  once  and 
for  all  after  decades  of  stagnation, 
the 
liberalization of world trade, because protectionism is a 
poor  response  and  is  even  worse  when  we  face  the 
threatening  crisis  conditions  that  we  are  experiencing 
today.  

Moreover, with regard to the promotion of world 
peace,  Chile  has  recognized  the  Palestinian  State,  a 
country  that  we  hope  to  welcome  to  the  Organization 
very 
supported  all 
international  efforts  to  achieve  a  just,  legitimate  and 
lasting  settlement  in  the  Middle  East.  Chile  is  firmly 
convinced that the Palestinian people have the right to 
a  free,  sovereign  and  democratic  State  and  that  the 
State of Israel has the right to have recognized, secure 
and respected borders. Only thus will Palestinians and 
Israelis  be  able  to  coexist  and  move  forward  in  peace 
and harmony.  

With  regard  to  social  development  and  the  fight 
against  poverty,  hunger  and  pandemics,  we  are 
Such 
strengthening 
cooperation 
it  neither 
replaces  nor  substitutes  the  need  for  North-South 
cooperation.  We  have  set  up  and  are  implementing  a 
Chilean  fund  to  combat  hunger  and  poverty  in Africa. 
We  have  also  made  significant  contributions  to  the 
United Nations International Drug Purchase Facility in 
order  to  combat  HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  tuberculosis, 
which  still  wreak  havoc  in  many  parts  of  the  world. 
But  we  wish 
to  go  even  further,  and  we  are 
implementing  mechanisms  that  will  enable  us  to 
unilaterally  reduce  duties  in  order  to  promote  our 
imports 
less  developed  African 
countries. 

We  were  also  very  proud  to  strongly  support 
UN-Women,  an  entity  headed  by  our  compatriot 
triangular,  but 
South-South 
cooperation. 
is  certainly 
from 
relatively 
11-50865 

13 

inadequate 
the  building  of  more 
A/66/PV.15 

Michelle  Bachelet,  whose  principal  goal  is  as  strong 
and  as  far-reaching  as  to  ultimately  ensure  that,  as 
women and men, we have the same rights and the same 
opportunities in this world, which belongs to us all. 

However,  in  this  new  century  and  this  new 
knowledge  and  information  society,  as  well  as  relying 
on  robust  democracies,  with  open,  competitive  and 
integrated  economies,  and  effective  States  to  combat 
poverty  and  for  greater  equality  of  opportunity,  we 
must recognize that those are merely old pillars that are 
necessary  but  completely 
today.  As 
emerging  countries,  we  must  commit  to  building  new 
development  pillars.  Those  are  investment  in  science 
and  technology;  the  promotion  of  innovation  and 
entrepreneurship; 
flexible 
societies that  can adapt to  a world in which change is 
the only constant; and, above all, making a huge effort 
to  improve  our  human  capital,  the  education  of  our 
young people and the training of our workers, as that is 
surely the major source of wealth and primary resource 
for leaving behind underdevelopment.  

There  is  no  doubt  that  we  must  win  the  race  for 
development  and  the  battle  for  the  future  in  the 
classroom by giving each and every one of our children 
quality  education.  We  have  said 
times: 
education 
true  mother  of  all  battles. 
Unfortunately,  it  is  also  the  Achilles  heel  of  many 
emerging  economies.  In  my  country  in  recent  weeks, 
thousands of young people have taken to the streets to 
demonstrate for a noble, great and fine cause, namely, 
giving all children and young people quality education 
that  enables  them  all  to  be  actors  in,  and  not  mere 
spectators  of,  their  own  destiny  and  participation  in 
this knowledge and information society. 

Our  Government  has  shared,  and  consistently 
shares,  that  goal.  It  is  ready  for  the  greatest  reforms 
and  has  committed  the  largest  economic,  human, 
professional  and  technical  resources  in  order  to  bring 
about fundamental change in our education system that 
seeks to substantially improve the quality of education 
and to increase coverage, in particular in the education 
of children from minorities and the most vulnerable so 
that  they  participate  in  education  soon,  not  when  the 
years  have  made 
irreversible.  We  must  also 
substantially  increase  funding  and  access  at  all  levels 
of education in order to ensure something as simple as 
quality  education  for  all,  free  education  for  all  those 
who  need  it  and  adequate  funding  for  all  others  in 
order to realize the dream that no bright child or young 
it  many 
the 
is 
it 
territory 
We  want 
to  appeal 
through  Chilean 
person remains excluded from higher education owing 
to  the  socio-economic  situation  of  their  family  or  to 
scarce resources.  

to  all  Latin  American 
countries,  in  the  context  of  the  Community  of  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  States,  to  establish  a  true 
strategic partnership that will engage the heart and soul 
of  our  Governments  in  that  extensive  reform  of  our 
educational  systems,  which  will  be  our  greatest 
possible  contribution  to  the  overall  development  of 
people to enable them to utilize their talents to the full, 
and  to  the  growth  of  our  economies,  while  enhancing 
peace and strengthening our democracies.  

That is why I would also like to mention what the 
President of Bolivia said yesterday when he referred to 
his  country’s  claim  to  obtain  sovereign  access  to  the 
Pacific  Ocean 
(see 
A/66/PV.13).  In  that  regard,  I  wish  to  reiterate  that 
there  are  no  territorial  issues  pending  between  Chile 
and Bolivia. They were settled once and for all by the 
Treaty of Peace and Friendship of 1904, that is to say, 
concluded  more  than  100  years  ago  now.  That  Treaty 
was  lawfully  negotiated  more  than  20  years  after  the 
end  of 
two  countries. 
Moreover,  the  parties  agreed  to  it;  their  Parliaments 
ratified  it;  and,  as  Bolivia  itself  acknowledged,  the 
Treaty  was  the  outcome  of  free  and  consensus-based 
negotiation. 
accordance  with 
international law, both Chile and Bolivia are obliged to 
respect and implement it in good faith.  

Chile has fully implemented in a timely way each 
and  every  clause  of  that  1904  Treaty  of  Peace  and 
Friendship.  Furthermore, 
that  Chile 
granted  exceeded  the  Treaty  provisions,  including 
going  far  beyond  those  that  the  United  Nations  itself 
established  in  the  Convention  on  Transit  Trade  of 
Land-Locked States. Our country has been, and always 
will be, willing to engage in dialogue with Bolivia on 
the  basis  of 
treaties  and 
international  law.  We  are  sure  that,  through  such 
dialogue, we will have the best possibility of agreeing 
with Bolivia concrete, feasible and useful solutions for 
both countries.  

All of us here have not only the right but the duty 
to  speak  and  act  in  defence  of  the  interests  of  our 
respective  countries  and  peoples.  However,  we  cannot 
fail to note that, for that to be fruitful, requires that we 
work  on  the  many  things  that  unite  us  rather  than  on 
the  conflict  between 
the  facilities 
Therefore, 
full 
respect 
for 
the 
the 
in 
14 

11-50865 
the  challenges  and 


what  legitimately  divides  us.  When  all  is  said  and 
done, whether we like it or not, responding to the risks 
and  the  storm  clouds  that  we  see  looming  on  the 
horizon  —  but  also 
the 
opportunities that we are getting ready to confront, and 
the  responses  and  the  solutions  that  together  we  shall 
have to implement, will only be fruitful and efficient if 
we do so with unity and goodwill. Some might believe 
that,  acting  alone,  they  will  be  able  to  move  forward 
faster, but history will never cease to remind us that it 
is  only  when  we  act  with  unity  and  goodwill  that  we 
will  be  able  to  build  on  solid  bedrock  and  not  sand; 
only that will allow each country — and the world as a 
whole — to go far in fulfilling our tasks, achieving our 
goals and overcoming our challenges. 
the  General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Chile for the statement he has just made. 

Mr. Sebastián Piñera Echenique, President of the 
Republic of Chile, was escorted from the General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 


Address by Mr. Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, President 
of the Islamic Republic of Iran 
The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the 
Islamic Republic of Iran. 

Mr.  Mahmoud  Ahmadinejad,  President  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency  by  Mr.  Mahmoud 
Ahmadinejad,  President  of  the  Islamic  Republic  of 
Iran, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
in  Persian; 

English text provided by the delegation): I am grateful 
to the Almighty Allah, who has granted me once more 
an opportunity to appear before the General Assembly. 
I have the pleasure to express my sincere thanks to His 
Excellency Mr. Joseph Deiss, President of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-fifth  session, for his tremendous 
efforts  during  his 
to 
congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser  on  his  election  as  the  President  of  the 
Assembly at its sixty-sixth session. 
President  Ahmadinejad  (spoke 
tenure.  I  would  also 
like 
A/66/PV.15

Let me seize this opportunity to pay tribute to all 
those who lost their lives in the past year as a result of 
natural disasters, in particular the victims of the tragic 
famine  in  Somalia  and 
the  devastating  flood  in 
Pakistan.  I  urge  everyone  to  intensify  their  assistance 
to the affected populations in those countries.  

Over the past years, I have spoken about different 
global  issues  and  the  need  to  introduce  fundamental 
changes  in  the  current  international  order.  Today, 
considering  international  developments,  I  will  try  to 
analyze the present situation from a different angle. 

As  everyone  knows,  the  superiority  of  human 
beings and their dominance over other creatures lie in 
the very nature and the truth of humankind, which is a 
divine  gift  and  a  manifestation  of  the  divine  spirit 
embodying  faith  in  God,  the  everlasting  Creator  and 
Planner of the entire universe who shows compassion, 
generosity,  justice  and  integrity  in  both  words  and 
deeds;  the  quest  for  dignity  to  reach  the  pinnacles  of 
perfection, the aspirations to elevate one’s material and 
spiritual  status  and  the  longing  to  realize  liberty; 
defying  oppression,  corruption  and  discrimination  and 
trying to support the oppressed; seeking happiness and 
lasting prosperity and security for all.  

Those are some of the manifestations of common 
divine and human attributes that can clearly be seen in 
the  historical  aspirations  of  human  beings  to  create  a 
heritage of art and literature, both in prose and poetry, 
and  in  the  socio-cultural  and  political  movements  of 
human  beings  throughout  the  course  of  history.  All 
divine  prophets  and  social  reformers  have  invited 
human beings to tread on this righteous path. God gave 
dignity  to  humankind  in  order  to  elevate  its  status  so 
that it can assume the role of His successor on Earth. 
It  is  vividly  clear  that,  despite  all  historical 

achievements,  including  the  creation  of  the  United 
Nations,  which  was  the  product  of  untiring  struggles 
and  the  efforts  of  free-minded  and  justice-seeking 
individuals  and  of  international  cooperation,  human 
societies  remain  far  from  fulfilling  their  noble  desires 
and aspirations. Most nations of the world are unhappy 
with  the  current  international  circumstances.  Despite 
the  general  longing  and  aspiration  for  peace,  progress 
and fraternity, wars, mass  murder, widespread poverty 
and  socio-economic  and  political  crises  continue  to 
infringe  upon  the  rights  and  sovereignty  of  nations, 
leaving  behind  irreparable  damage  to  all  nations 
worldwide.  
11-50865 

15 

A/66/PV.15 


Approximately,  3  billion  of  the  world’s  people 
live  on  less  than  $2.50  a  day,  and  over  200  million 
people  live  without  even  having  one  proper  meal  per 
day.  Forty  per  cent  of  the  world’s  poorest  populations 
only  share  5  per  cent  of  global  income,  while  20  per 
cent  of  the  richest  people  share  75  per  cent  of 
economic  earnings  worldwide.  More 
than  20,000 
innocent  and  destitute  children  around  the  world  die 
every  day  because  of  poverty.  Eighty  per  cent  of 
financial resources in the United States of America are 
controlled  by  10  per  cent  of  its  people,  while  only 
20 per cent of those resources belong to 90 per cent of 
the population. 

What  are  the  causes  and  reasons  behind  these 
inequalities?  How  can  one  remedy  such  injustice? 
Those  who  dominate  and  run  the  centres  of  global 
economic  power  put  the  blame  on  peoples’  religious 
aspirations  and  the  pursuit  of  the  path  of  divine 
prophets,  or  on  the  weakness  of  nations  and  the  poor 
performance  of  a  number  of  groups  or  individuals. 
They  claim  that  only  their  views,  approaches  and 
prescriptions  can  save  humankind  and  the  world 
economy.  I  ask  everyone  here  whether  they  think  that 
the  root  cause  of  the  problems  can  be  solved  in  the 
prevailing  international  order  of  the  way  the  world  is 
governed. 

the  following 
questions.  Who  abducted  by  force  tens  of  millions  of 
people from their homes in Africa and other regions of 
the  world  during  the  dark  period  of  slavery,  making 
Africans  the  victims  of  the  materialistic  greed  of  the 
United  States  and  Europe?  Who  imposed  colonialism 
on  the  world  for  over  four  centuries?  Who  occupied 
lands 
and  massively  plundered  other  nations’ 
resources,  destroyed  talents  and  obliterated  native 
languages,  cultures  and  national 
identities?  Who 
triggered the First and Second World Wars, which left 
70  million  dead  and  hundreds  of  millions  injured  or 
homeless?  Who  created  the  wars  in  the  Korean 
peninsula and Viet Nam?  

Who  imposed,  through  deceit  and  hypocrisy,  the 
Zionist  agenda  and  almost  60  years  of  war, 
homelessness, 
the 
Palestinian  people  and  the  countries  of  the  region? 
Who  imposed  and  supported  for  decades  military 
dictatorships and totalitarian regimes on Asian, African 
and  Latin  American  nations,  and  established  friendly 
relations  with  all  of  them?  Who  used  atomic  bombs 
stockpiled 
against  defenceless  people  and 
terror  and  mass  murder  on 
to  draw  attention 
I  want 
then 
to 
in 
their  arsenals?  Whose 
thousands  of  warheads 
economies rely on waging wars and selling arms?  

Who  provoked  and  encouraged  Saddam  Hussein 
to  invade  and  impose  an  eight-year  war  on  Iran,  and 
who  assisted  and  equipped  him  to  deploy  chemical 
weapons  against  our  cities  and  our  people? Who  used 
the  mysterious  11  September  incident  as  a  pretext  to 
attack  Afghanistan  and  Iraq,  killing,  injuring  and 
displacing  millions  in  those  two  countries,  with  the 
ultimate  goal  of  bringing  the  Middle  East  and  its  oil 
resources under its domination?  

Who  undermined  the  Bretton Woods  system  and 
printed trillions of dollars without the backing of gold 
reserves  or  an  equivalent  currency,  a  move  that 
triggered inflation worldwide and was intended to prey 
on 
the  economic  gains  of  other  nations?  What 
country’s  annual  military  spending  exceeds  $1  trillion 
annually  —  more  than  the  military  budgets  of  all 
countries of the world combined? Which Governments 
are  the  ones  most  indebted  in  the  world,  and  which 
Government threatens all nations and countries on any 
pretext?  
Who  dominates  the  policymaking  establishments 

of  the  world  economy?  Who  are  the  ones  who  are 
responsible  for  the  world  economic  recession  and  are 
imposing  its  consequences  in  the  United  States  and 
Europe on Asian, African, Latin American and all other 
nations?  Which  Governments  are  ever  ready  to  drop 
thousands of bombs on other countries but ponder and 
hesitate  to  send  a  bit  of  food  aid  to  famine-stricken 
people  in  Somalia  or  elsewhere?  Who  are  the  ones 
dominating  the  Security  Council,  which  is  ostensibly 
responsible for safeguarding international security?  

There exist dozens of other similar questions, and 
of course the answers are clear. The majority of nations 
and Governments of the world have had no role in the 
creation  of  the  current  global  crisis,  and  in  fact  are 
themselves the victims of such policies. It is as clear as 
daylight  that  the  same  slave-masters  and  colonial 
Powers  that  once  triggered  the  two  World  Wars  have 
caused  widespread  misery  and  disorder,  with  far-
reaching  effects  across  the  globe  since  then.  They 
continue  to  control  the  international  political  centres 
and the Security Council.  

the 
competence and ability to run or govern the world? Is 
it  acceptable 
the  sole 
defenders  of  freedom,  democracy  and  human  rights, 
those  arrogant  Powers  really  have 
themselves 
they  call 
that 
Do 
16 

11-50865 
If  some  European  countries  still  use 


while 
they  attack  and  occupy  other  countries 
militarily? Can the flower of democracy blossom from 
NATO’s missiles, bombs and guns?  

the 
Holocaust — after six decades — as an excuse to pay 
ransom to the Zionists, should it not be an obligation of 
the  slave  masters  and  colonial  Powers 
to  pay 
reparations  to  the  affected  nations?  If  the  damage  and 
losses  of  the  period  of  slavery  and  colonialism  were 
indeed  compensated  for,  what  would  happen  to  the 
manipulators and behind-the-scenes political powers in 
the United States and Europe? Would the gaps between 
the  North  and  the  South  remain?  If  only  half  of  the 
military expenditures of the United States and its allies 
in NATO were cut to help solve the economic problems 
in their own countries, would they be experiencing any 
symptoms of the economic crisis? What would happen 
if the same amount were allocated to poor nations?  

What  is  the  justification  for  the  presence  of 
hundreds  of  United  States  military  and  intelligence 
bases in various parts of the world, including 268 bases 
in Germany, 124 in Japan, 87 in the Republic of Korea, 
83  in  Italy,  45  in  the  United  Kingdom,  21  in  Portugal 
and  hundreds  of  other  bases  in  other  parts  of  the 
world? Is that anything other than military occupation? 
Do not the bombs deployed in the United States bases 
undermine the security of other nations? 

The  main  question  is  the  root  causes  of  such 
attitudes.  The  prime  reason  should  be  sought  in  the 
beliefs  and  tendencies  of  the  establishment,  which  is 
made  up  of  people  in  conflict  with  their  inner  human 
instincts and disposition, who also have no faith in God 
and  in  the  path  of  the  divine  prophets  to  replace  their 
lust  for  power  and  materialistic  ends  with  heavenly 
values. To them, only power and wealth prevail. Every 
attempt must be made to bring into focus those sinister 
goals.  

Oppressed  nations  have  no  hope  to  safeguard  or 
protect  their  legitimate  rights  against  those  Powers. 
Those  Powers  seek  their  progress,  prosperity  and 
and 
dignity 
annihilation  of  others.  They  consider 
themselves 
superior  to  others,  enjoying  special  privileges  or 
concessions.  They  have  no  respect  for  others  and 
rights  of  all  nations  and 
casually  violate 
the 
Governments.  They 
proclaim 
the 
indisputable custodians of all Governments and nations 
the  poverty,  humiliation 
themselves 
through 
A/66/PV.15
their 
their 
inclination 
tendencies  and 
through intimidation, recourse to threats and force, and 
the abuse of international mechanisms.  

They insist on imposing their lifestyle and beliefs 
on others. They officially support racism. They weaken 
countries  through  military  intervention  and  destroy 
their  infrastructure  in  order  to  plunder  their  resources 
by making them all the more dependent. They sow the 
seeds of hate and hostility among nations and people of 
different  pursuits  in  order  to  prevent  them  from 
fulfilling their goals of development and progress. 
All cultural identities, lives and values, as well as 

the  wealth  of  nations  and  human  values,  including  of 
women,  children  and  youth,  are  sacrificed  to  their 
hegemonistic 
to 
enslave and capture other nations. 

Hypocrisy  and  deceit  are  allowed  in  order  to 
secure their interests and imperialistic intentions. Drug 
trafficking  and  the  killing  of  innocent  human  beings 
are  also  allowed  in  pursuit  of  such  diabolical  goals. 
Despite  NATO’s  presence  in  occupied  Afghanistan, 
there has been a dramatic increase in the production of 
illicit drugs in that country. 

They  tolerate  no  question  or  criticism  and, 
instead of presenting a reason for their violations, they 
always put themselves in the position of a claimant. 

imperialistic  media  network, 
which  is  under  the  influence  of  colonialism,  they 
threaten  anyone  who  questions  the  Holocaust  and  the 
event  of  11  September  with  sanctions  and  military 
action. 

Last  year,  when  the  need  to  form  a  fact-finding 
team to undertake a thorough investigation concerning 
the  hidden  elements  involved  in  the  11  September 
incident was brought up — an idea also endorsed by all 
independent  Governments  and  nations,  as  well  as  by 
the  majority  of  people  in  the  United  States  —  my 
country  and  I  were  pressured  and  threatened  by  the 
Government of the United States. Instead of assigning 
a  fact-finding  team,  they  killed  the  main  perpetrator 
and threw his body into the sea. 

Would  it  not  have  been  reasonable  to  bring  to 
justice  and  openly  try  the  main  perpetrator  of  the 
incident  in  order  to  identify  the  elements  and  reasons 
behind the safe space provided for the invading aircraft 
to attack the Twin Towers of the World Trade Center? 
Why  should  it  not  have  been  allowed  to  bring  him  to 
trial  so  as  to  help  efforts  to  recognize  those  who 
By  using 
11-50865 

17 

A/66/PV.15 

launched  terrorist  groups  and  brought  wars  and  other 
miseries  into  the  region?  Is  there  any  classified 
information that must be kept secret? 

They  view  Zionism  as  a  sacred  notion  or 
ideology. Any  question  concerning  its  foundation  and 
history  is  condemned  by  them  as  an  unforgivable  sin. 
However, they endorse and allow sacrileges and insults 
against the beliefs of other divine religions. 

Real freedom, justice, dignity and well-being and 
lasting  security  are  the  rights  of  all  nations.  Those 
values  can  be  achieved  neither  by  reliance  on  the 
current  inefficient  system  of  world  governance  nor 
through the intervention of the world’s arrogant Powers 
or the gun barrels of NATO forces. Those values can be 
realized only through independence, the recognition of 
others’ rights, harmony and cooperation. 

Is  there  any  way  to  address  the  problems  and 
challenges besetting the world by using the prevailing 
international  mechanisms  and  tools  so  as  to  help 
humankind  achieve  its  long-standing  aspirations  of 
peace, security and equality? 

All  those  who  tried  to  introduce  reforms  while 
preserving  the  existing  norms  and  tendencies  have 
failed. The  valuable  efforts  made  by  the  Non-Aligned 
Movement,  the  Group  of  77  and  the  Group  of  15,  as 
well  as  by  some  prominent  individuals,  have  failed  to 
bring  about  fundamental  changes,  although  they  did 
have their respective impacts and effects. 

The  governance  and  management  of  the  world 
require  fundamental  reforms,  but  what  has  to  be  done 
now?  Efforts  must  be  made,  with  firm  resolve  and 
through collective cooperation, to map out a new plan 
on  the  basis  of  principles  and  the  very  foundation  of 
such  universal  human  values  as  monotheism,  justice, 
freedom, love and the quest for happiness, on the basis 
of happiness for all. 

The idea of creating the United Nations remains a 
great  and  historic  achievement  of  humankind.  Its 
importance must be appreciated and its capacities must 
be used for our noble goals, to the extent possible. We 
should  not  allow  the  Organization,  which  reflects  the 
collective will and shared aspirations of the community 
of  nations,  to  deviate  from  its  main  course  and  play 
into the hands of the world Powers. 

The necessary groundwork must be laid to ensure 
collective participation and the involvement of nations 
in  efforts  to  promote  lasting  peace  and  security.  The 
cooperation,  we  must 
shared  and  collective  management  of  the  world  must 
be  achieved  in  its  true  sense  and  be  based  on  the 
underlying  principles  enshrined  in  international  law. 
Justice must serve as the criterion and the basis for all 
international decisions and actions.  

All  of  us  should  acknowledge  the  fact  that  there 
is  no  way  other  than  the  shared  and  collective 
management  of  the  world  to  put  an  end  to  today’s 
worldwide disorder, tyranny and discrimination. This is 
indeed  the  only  way  to  ensure  the  prosperity  and 
welfare of human society, which is an established and 
vivid truth. While acknowledging that truth, one should 
note  that  acknowledgement  alone  is  not  enough.  We 
must  believe  in  it  and  spare  no  effort  towards  its 
realization. 

The  shared  and  collective  management  of  the 
world  is  the  legitimate  right  of  all  nations.  As  their 
representatives,  we  have  an  obligation  to  defend  their 
rights.  Although  some  Powers  continuously  try  to 
frustrate  all  international  efforts  aimed  at  promoting 
collective 
nevertheless 
strengthen  our  belief  in  achieving  the  desired  goal  of 
establishing  shared  and  collective  cooperation  to  run 
the world. 

The  United  Nations  was  created  to  enable  the 
effective  participation  of  all  nations  in  international 
decision-making processes. We all know that this goal 
has  not  yet  been  fulfilled,  owing  to  the  absence  of 
justice  in  the  current  management  structures  and 
mechanisms of the United Nations.  
The composition of the Security Council is unjust 

and  inequitable.  Therefore,  changes  that  include  the 
restructuring  of  the  United  Nations  are  considered  as 
the basic demands of nations and must be addressed by 
the General Assembly. 

During  last  year’s  session,  I  emphasized  the 
importance of this issue and called for the designation 
of  the  present  decade  as  the  decade  of  shared  and 
collective  global  management,  and  for  all  capacities 
and resources to be mobilized in that direction. I would 
now  like  to  reiterate  my  proposal.  I  am  sure  that, 
through 
the  efforts  of 
leaders  and  Governments,  an 
committed  world 
insistence  on  justice  and  the  support  of  all  other 
nations,  we  can  expedite  the  process  of  building  a 
bright  common  future.  This  movement  is  certainly  on 
the rightful path to its creation, and carries with it the 
assurance  of  a  promising  future  for  humankind.  That 
international  cooperation, 
18 

11-50865 


future  will  be  built  when  humankind  sets  off  on  the 
path of the divine prophets and the righteous, under the 
leadership  of  Imam Al-Mahdi,  the  ultimate  saviour  of 
humankind  and  the  heir  to  all  divine  messengers  and 
leaders and to the pure generation of our great prophet. 

The creation of a supreme and ideal society with 
the arrival of a perfect human being who is a true and 
sincere  lover  of  all  humankind  is  the  guaranteed 
promise  of  Allah.  He  will  come  with  Jesus  Christ  to 
lead  those  who  love  freedom  and  justice  to  eradicate 
tyranny  and  discrimination  and  promote  knowledge, 
peace,  justice,  freedom  and  love  across  the  world.  He 
will present to every single individual all the beauty of 
the world and all good things that bring happiness, the 
promise of a better tomorrow and the sweet taste of life 
to all humankind.  

Today nations have been awakened and, with the 
increase in public awareness, they no longer submit to 
oppression  and  discrimination.  The  world  today  is 
witnessing more than ever a widespread awakening in 
Islamic  lands,  in  Asia,  in  Europe  and  in  America. 
Every day, those movements are expanding their scope 
and  influence  to  pursue  the  realization  of  justice, 
freedom and the creation of a better tomorrow. 

Our  great  nation,  with  its  millennial  civilization 
and  history,  stands  ready  to  join  hands  with  other 
nations to march along that beautiful path, in harmony 
and  in  line  with  the  shared  aspirations  of  humankind. 
Let us salute love and freedom, let us salute justice and 
knowledge  and  let  us  salute  the  bright  future  that 
awaits humankind. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the General Assembly, I wish to thank the President of 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made. 

Mr.  Mahmoud  Ahmadinejad,  President  of  the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Ms. Roza Otunbaeva, President of the 
Kyrgyz Republic 
The  President: The  General Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Kyrgyz 
Republic. 

Ms.  Roza  Otunbaeva,  President  of  the  Kyrgyz 
Republic, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
A/66/PV.15
is 
undergoing 
today 
The  world 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Roza  Otunbaeva, 
President of the Kyrgyz Republic, and to invite her to 
address the Assembly. 
President Otunbaeva (spoke in Russian): At the 

outset, allow me to congratulate Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon  on  his  well-deserved  reappointment  and  to 
wish him continued success in his high and responsible 
mission. It also gives me great pleasure to congratulate 
Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  on  his  election  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth 
session. 

We  welcome  the  newest  member  of  our  family, 
South  Sudan,  which  just  joined  the  United  Nations  as 
our 193rd Member State. 

great 
transformations.  The  year-long  global  financial  crisis 
gives  little  sign  of  being  resolved  in  the  near  future. 
Even  the  most  developed  economies  of  the  world  are 
experiencing  the  most  serious  trials  of  their  histories. 
At the same time, we are fascinated by  the success of 
countries  that  only  yesterday  were  struggling  against 
poverty  and  stagnation.  Humankind  is  experiencing 
changes  of  the  most  extreme  kind.  We  believe  that  at 
this  historic  moment  the  United  Nations  must  stay 
ahead  of  the  new  realities  and  lead  humankind  to 
positive new beginnings. 

The people of Kyrgyzstan have been watching the 
historic  developments  in  North Africa  and  the  Middle 
East  with  feelings  of  solidarity  and  sincere  empathy. 
One  spring,  a  year  before  the  Arab  Spring,  we 
overthrew tyranny in our own land. Our country in the 
heart  of  Central  Asia  has  now  moved  from  a  harsh 
presidential  form  of  Government  to  a  parliamentary 
Government. 
Last  year,  despite  serious  obstacles,  Kyrgyzstan 

succeeded 
in  holding  what  were  recognized  by 
international  observers  to  be  unprecedented,  free  and 
fair  parliamentary  elections  and  a  constitutional 
referendum.  Kyrgyzstan  is  now  ruled  by  a  coalition 
Government 
together  with  an  active  and 
influential parliamentary opposition, is learning to find 
solutions  to  problems  in  the  interests  of  the  whole  of 
society,  and  not  just  cater  to  the  ever-increasing 
demands  of  kleptocrats,  as  it  did  before.  Mechanisms 
are now in place to ensure transparency in Government 
decision-making.  
that, 
11-50865 

19 

is  growing.  Over 
A/66/PV.15 


The authorities’ new openness and accountability 
to  the  people  have  already  begun  to  bear  fruit.  The 
economy 
the  past  year  alone, 
in  education  and  health  care  have 
investments 
increased  significantly.  A  fundamental  reform  of  the 
judiciary  has  begun.  This  year,  on  30  October  the 
people  of  Kyrgyzstan  will  take  part  in  the  final  phase 
of  the  transitional  period  —  the  election  of  a  new 
president  of  the  Republic.  In  Kyrgyzstan,  we  want  to 
establish  a  tradition  of  peaceful,  civilized  transfer  of 
power,  in  accordance  with  the  Constitution  and  in  the 
interests of the people. 

Before  the  world  community,  I  wish  from  this 
rostrum  to  address  my  own  people.  Our  striving  for 
democracy  and  unwavering  push  to  build  an  open 
society  are  at  the  centre  of  the  world’s  attention.  The 
whole world is watching us. We must be worthy of and 
cherish  the  freedom  that  we  have  won  at  such  a  high 
price.  We  have  no  right  to  divide  ourselves  along 
ethnic,  regional  or  religious  lines.  Pan-national  unity, 
the  rule  of  law,  good  governance,  civic  participation 
and a free press are the achievements that will help us 
to build a prosperous and strong country. 
(spoke 
delegation) 

My  beloved  Kyrgyz  nation!  Cherish  your 
independence, preserve your unity and strengthen your 
democracy! 
(spoke in Russian) 

I  take  this  opportunity  to  invite  Member  States 
and international organizations to send their observers 
to Kyrgyzstan for the upcoming presidential election. 

On  the  basis  of  our  20  years’  experience  of 
independence, we know that the path from victory over 
authoritarian 
functioning 
democracy  is  not  a  straight  or  easy  one.  In  recent 
decades,  the  wealth  of  the  people  of  Kyrgyzstan,  like 
that  of  the  people  of  many  other  countries,  has  been 
plundered  by  corrupt  and  criminal  rulers.  Billions  of 
dollars have been spirited out of the country. Dictators 
should  be  held  accountable  for  committing  crimes 
against  their  own  people  and  should  not  be  welcomed 
or provided refuge abroad. 

The  time  has  come  for  our  Organization  to 
develop  clear  standards  and  procedures  to  ensure 
justice  and  the  return  of  embezzled  funds  to  their 
rightful  owners.  This  is  not  about  settling  personal 
in  Kyrgyz;  English 
text  provided  by 
to  building  a 
regimes 
the 
the  situation 
there  has  been 
We  are  convinced 
the  United  Nations  system 
accounts  or  politically  motivated  harassment;  it  is 
above all about delivering justice and ending impunity. 

that  restoring  peace  and 
strengthening  the  rule  of  law  in  Afghanistan  will 
depend less on coercive measures than on the pace and 
methods  we  use  to  resolve  social  and  economic 
problems.  We  believe  that  the  decision  to  withdraw 
international  troops  from  Afghanistan  must  be  taken 
only  once 
tangibly 
stabilized  and  once  the  Afghan  National  Army  and 
Police have sufficient capacity to assume responsibility 
for the security of their country and its borders. 
We  continue  to  cooperate  with  the  international 

community  and 
in 
overcoming the consequences of the last year’s clashes 
in  the  city  of  Osh.  In  this  regard,  I  am  sincerely 
grateful  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  and  the 
secretariat  of  the  Peacebuilding  Fund  for  supporting 
our efforts to build sustainable peace.  
Turning  to  the  main  theme  of  the  sixty-sixth 

session  of 
the  General  Assembly,  “The  role  of 
mediation  in  the  settlement  of  disputes  by  peaceful 
means”,  I  wish  to  refer  specifically  to  the  role  of 
women  in  times  of  crisis  and  to  their  courage  and 
sincerity,  which  were  praised  by  President  Roussef 
from this rostrum. When peace is broken and men take 
up arms, it is women who often take responsibility for 
ending  violence  and  restoring  peaceful  life  in  their 
communities.  The  leadership  of  mothers,  wives  and 
sisters 
their 
disagreements on the basis of compromise and mutual 
understanding.  Worldwide,  women  are  a  force  for 
peace.  

That  is  precisely  the  case  in  my  country,  where 
women  are  helping  to  restoring  peace  and  enhancing 
democracy.  One-third  of  the  seats  in  Parliament  are 
held  by  women.  The  President  of  the  Supreme  Court, 
the  Attorney  General,  the  President  of  the  National 
Bank,  ministers,  governors,  countless  activists  and 
local  leaders  are  also  women.  I  firmly  believe  that, 
under  the  strong  leadership  of  Michelle  Bachelet,  the 
new, important body that is UN-Women will become a 
champion of women’s rights around the world. 

the  shrinking 
attention  of  the  world  community  to  global  climate 
change.  In  every  corner  of  the  world,  including  our 
region, this issue has become a part of every country’s 
security. 
is  concerned  by 
force  politicians 
Kyrgyzstan 
can 
to 
resolve 
20 

11-50865 
recognized  Palestine  along 
to  support  Kyrgyzstan’s  candidacy 



We have waited too long to welcome Palestine as 
a full Member of the United Nations. As early as 1995, 
Kyrgyzstan 
its  1967 
borders,  and  we  join  the  Secretary-General  in  his  call 
for  Israel  and  Palestine  to  return  to  the  negotiating 
table.  Palestine  and  Israel  should  become  good 
neighbours on the basis of the two-State solution. The 
citizens of both countries must finally enjoy their right 
to  live  in  their  lands  in  peace  and  security.  We,  the 
nations  of  the  world,  hope  for  the  earliest  possible 
resolution of this long-running conflict. 

My  country  has  submitted  its  candidacy  for  a 
non-permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council  for  the 
period 2012-2013. The Kyrgyz Republic, as a member 
of the Group of Landlocked Developing Countries and 
the  group  of  small  countries  with  economies  in 
transition,  and  as  a  young  democracy  with  a  multi-
confessional  population,  supports  the  need  for  the 
wider  representation  of  all  categories  of  countries  on 
the Security Council. In this regard, I request Member 
States 
to  a 
non-permanent seat on the Security Council.  

The agendas of our meetings and daily headlines 
are dominated by natural disasters, financial crises and 
political 
justice, 
discrimination  and  severe  violations  of  human  rights 
remain a part of our lives. At the same time, however, 
we  are  witnessing  with  bewilderment 
inspiring 
historical changes, amazing technological progress, the 
eradication  of  previously  incurable  diseases  and,  over 
the  course  of  just  one  generation,  the  lifting  of 
hundreds  of  millions  of  people  out  of  destitution  and 
disenfranchisement. 

In this time of change, we must do our utmost to 
ensure  that  that  the  young  people  of  our  planet  are  as 
knowledgeable,  as  optimistic  and  as  courageous  as 
possible  in  efforts  to  achieve  prosperity,  peace  and 
security  around  the  world.  Young  people  are  not  just 
the future of humankind; they are also its present. Let 
us all open every door and create every opportunity for 
the growth and development of the younger generation. 
Tomorrow is born today! 
the  General 

Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Kyrgyz 
Republic for the statement she has just made. 

Ms.  Roza  Otunbaeva,  President  of  the  Kyrgyz 
Republic,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
upheavals.  The 
absence 
from 
of 
A/66/PV.15

Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate 



  Address by His Highness Sheikh Naser 
Al-Mohammad Al-Ahmad Al-Sabah, Prime 
Minister of the State of Kuwait 
The  President  (spoke  in Arabic): The Assembly 

will now hear an address by the Prime Minister of the 
State of Kuwait. 

Sheikh Naser Al-Mohammad Al-Ahmad Al-Sabah, 
Prime  Minister  of  the  State  of  Kuwait,  was 
escorted to the rostrum. 
Sheikh Al-Sabah (Kuwait) (spoke in Arabic): At 

the  outset,  let  me  say  that  it  is  my  pleasure  to 
personally  extend  to  you,  Mr.  President,  on  behalf  of 
the Government and the people of the State of Kuwait, 
my  most  sincere  congratulations  on  your  unanimous 
election  as  President  of  the  sixty-sixth  session  of  the 
General  Assembly.  Your  election 
represents  an 
acknowledgement and an appreciation of the prominent 
stature of the fraternal State of Qatar, which has strong 
and  distinct  links  and  relations  with  my  country, 
Kuwait.  I  am confident, Sir, that you  will conduct the 
work of this session in a manner conducive to ensuring 
its success. 

We also would like to pay tribute to the efforts of 
your predecessor, Mr. Joseph Deiss, on his outstanding 
presidency  and  his  successful  conduct  of  the  work  of 
the previous session. 

We  congratulate  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon  on  his  reappointment  as  Secretary-General 
and wish him continued success. 
We were pleased to see the accession by the State 

the  United  Nations.  Kuwait 
of  South  Sudan 
recognized the State of South Sudan on the first day of 
its 
the 
Government  and 
the  brotherly  people  of  South 
Sudan — a people with whom we are proud to have a 
strong  relationship  —  will  achieve  security,  stability 
and economic development for their country. 

There  is  no  doubt  that  our  Organization  is 
growing more important  by the day. Over the past  six 
decades,  the  international  arena  has  been  the  scene  of 
numerous  events  and  developments  that  have  had  a 
direct  impact  on  international  peace  and  security.  As 
the  most 
independent 
the  United 
multilateral 
legitimate,  credible  and 
international  mechanism, 
independence.  We 
confident 
that 
are 
to 
11-50865 

21 

the 
today  requires 
A/66/PV.15 

Nations has  remained a safe haven for  Member States 
seeking  solutions  to  questions,  problems  and  crises. 
There  is  a  general  conviction  that  no  one  country 
alone,  no  matter  how  powerful  and  capable,  can  face 
the  dangers  of  terrorism,  the  proliferation  of  weapons 
of  mass  destruction,  climate  change,  epidemics, 
organized  crime  or  any  challenges  that  do  not  respect 
or recognize geographic or national borders. 

Recently,  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  has 
expanded  significantly.  This  is  particularly  true  in 
connection  with  the  humanitarian  disasters  that  we 
have  witnessed,  whether  man-made  or  natural.  The 
latest  example  was  the  famine  affecting  the  Horn  of 
Africa as a result of drought and violence. The United 
Nations has been able to mobilize humanitarian aid and 
to  provide  humanitarian  assistance  to  those  in  need. 
Those  actions  have  alleviated  the  suffering  and  saved 
the lives of millions. 

The growing importance of the United Nations in 
our  world 
improvement  and 
strengthening  of  its  capabilities.  We  must  enhance  its 
performance.  This  will  require  measures  and  steps  to 
reform 
the  General 
Assembly, the Security Council and the Economic and 
Social Council, as well  as develop their functions  and 
responsibilities  to  enable  those  bodies  to  carry  them 
out efficiently and effectively. It is therefore incumbent 
upon  all  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  to 
support  the  Organization,  commit  to  implementing  its 
resolutions  and  provide  it  with  the  needed  financial 
resources,  in  a  timely  manner  without  any  conditions. 
In the final analysis, the power of the United Nations is 
but  a  reflection  of  the  support  that  Member  States 
provide  in  pursuance  of  its  lofty  objectives  and  the 
fulfilment of its needs. 

the 
developments  and  events  in  the  Middle  East  region, 
such  as  will  lead  to  more  deterioration  in  its  security 
and stability. The use of force and the acts of violence 
that have claimed the lives of thousands must cease so 
as 
legitimate 
demands  of  peoples  for  the  implementation  of  serious 
and  prompt  political,  economic  and  social  reforms 
must  be  heeded.  In  that  respect,  the  State  of  Kuwait 
supports all efforts calling for dialogue, understanding 
and the rejection of violence. 

The State of Kuwait attaches great importance to 
consolidating  and  developing  its  relations  with  its 
We  have  witnessed  with  great  concern 
to  prevent  further  bloodshed.  The 
its  major  bodies, 
including 
Iran 
to 
its 
to  abide  by 
liberation  was 
independence  and 
the  calls  made  on 
neighbours on firm and solid grounds, based on mutual 
respect and common interests, as well as to promoting 
these  relations  to  a  level  that  meets  the  aspirations  of 
the  peoples  of  the  region.  In  this  context,  the  State  of 
Kuwait  supports 
the  Islamic 
take  serious  and  genuine 
Republic  of 
confidence-building  measures, 
the 
resolutions  of  international  legitimacy,  to  cooperate 
with the International Atomic Energy Agency so as to 
dispel  fears  and  doubts  surrounding 
its  nuclear 
programmes,  and  to  cooperate  positively  in  resolving 
the dispute over the occupied Emirati islands according 
to the principles and rules of international law. 
This  year,  the  State  of  Kuwait  celebrated  the 

fiftieth  anniversary  of 
the 
twentieth  anniversary  of  its  liberation  from  the  Iraqi 
Saddami  occupation.  That 
truly 
considered  one  of  the  most  salient  successes  of  the 
United  Nations  in  its  efforts  to  deter  aggression  and 
eliminate  its  effects,  based  on  the  principles  of  the 
Charter and the resolutions of international legitimacy. 

In  November,  Kuwait  will  also  celebrate  the 
fiftieth  anniversary  of its  Constitution,  which  codified 
the democracy that has become an integral part of the 
State  of  Kuwait  since  its  establishment.  That  is 
considered  one  of  the  most  outstanding  achievements 
of the people and Government of Kuwait. Those are all 
historic occasions for a small peace-loving country that 
believes  in  the  principles  and  purposes  of  the  United 
Nations Charter and international law.  

Our  country  relies  in  its  relations  with  other 
States  on  respect  for  the  principles  of  sovereignty, 
independence  and  non-interference  in  the  internal 
affairs  of  others,  as  well  as  the  settlement  of  all 
disputes  by  peaceful  means. The  State  of  Kuwait  also 
seeks to overcome its painful memories by establishing 
strong  relations  of  cooperation,  mutual  respect  and 
good-neighbourliness  with  the  brotherly  Republic  of 
Iraq.  We  deeply  hope  that  development  and  stability 
will  prevail  there,  and  that  further  progress  will  be 
achieved  in  Iraq’s  efforts  to  enforce  security  and 
rebuild  the  economy,  which  was  destroyed  by  the 
former  regime’s  aggressive  and  expansionist  policies. 
We reaffirm our commitment to providing all forms of 
support 
remaining 
international  obligations  under  the  relevant  Security 
Council  resolutions  and  regain  its  role  in  the  regional 
and international sphere. 
implement 
to  help 
Iraq 
its 
22 

11-50865 
international 



More  than  six  decades  have  elapsed  and  the 
United Nations remains incapable of finding a solution 
to the Palestinian question and of putting an end to the 
Israeli  occupation  of  Arab  territories.  Worse,  the 
suffering of the Palestinian people only increases with 
the  years.  Their  economic  and  social  conditions 
worsen, settlements expand, their lands are confiscated, 
their water is stolen, their homes and land are besieged, 
their  movements  are  restricted  and  their  sons  and 
daughters are imprisoned. Most troubling of all is that 
the  international  community  stands  idly  by,  a  passive 
spectator to Israel’s unchanging practices and policies, 
despite the fact that those policies not only violate the 
most  rudimentary  rules  of 
law  and 
resolutions  of  international  legitimacy,  but  undermine 
any chance to achieve peace.  

Israel’s  inhumane  practices  against  our  brothers 
in Gaza — such as the totally unjustified blockade and 
the  deliberate  destruction  of  infrastructure,  despite 
continued  international  condemnation,  to  name  but 
two — are a glaring example of Israel’s indifference to 
its  obligations  and  world  public  opinion.  The 
international  community  is  therefore  called  upon  to 
pursue its efforts to bring pressure to bear on Israel so 
that  the  Palestinian  people  enjoy  their  right  to  self-
determination.  

The  Palestinian  State  must  be  established,  with 
East Jerusalem as its capital, and the Israeli occupation 
of all the Arab territories it has occupied since 4 June 
1967,  including  the  Syrian  Golan,  must  end.  Israel 
must  also  cease 
the 
sovereignty  of  Lebanon  and  withdraw  from  all  its 
occupied territories. We wish to renew once again our 
full commitment and support to the bid and endeavours 
of  the  Palestinian  Authority  to  obtain  membership  in 
the  United  Nations  as  an  independent,  sovereign  and 
full Member State. 

The  State  of  Kuwait  welcomes  the  international 
reports  issued  by  the  United  Nations  and  its  agencies 
concerning 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
adopted at the 2000 Millennium Summit and the status 
of  their  achievement.  We  can  all  be  proud  of  the 
accomplishments  in  reducing  the  number  of  persons 
infected  with  HIV/AIDS  and  providing  medication  to 
greater numbers of infected people, as well as progress 
in  fighting  other  communicable  diseases,  such  as 
malaria  and 
those 
accomplishments,  much  remains  to  be  done,  since 
these accomplishments are unevenly distributed among 
tuberculosis.  However,  despite 
its  continued  violations  of 
A/66/PV.15
States.  Many  indicators  confirm  that  some  States  will 
not  be  able  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals by 2015.  

That  could  be  attributed  to  a  number  of  causes, 
the  most  obvious  of  which  is  the  ongoing  global 
economic  and  financial  crisis  and  its  negative  impact 
on  the  majority  of  States,  large  and  small,  rich  and 
poor.  However,  developing  countries,  especially  the 
least  developed,  have  suffered  most  because  of  the 
weakness  and  vulnerability  of  their  economies.  Their 
economic  growth  has  faltered  and  the  volume  of  their 
exports  fallen,  while  unemployment  rates  have  risen. 
At  the  same  time,  the  prices  of  food  and  basic 
commodities  have  risen,  exacerbating  the  economic 
and social impact of the crisis.  

No sooner had the world started to recover from 
the  economic  crisis  than  the  symptoms  of  another 
began to emerge, threatening once again the growth of 
the  global  economy. That  new  crisis  is  exemplified  in 
the sovereign debt of the United States and a number of 
European countries. The international community must 
forge  ahead  in  restructuring  the  international  financial 
institutions  in  order  to  ensure  their  sustainability, 
improve their ability to perform their duties effectively 
and efficiently, and make them more representative of 
and fair to the countries that need their support. 

The world today is in dire need of a just, fair and 
balanced  global 
the 
enormous  gap  between  States,  ensures  mutual  benefit 
and  assists  in  integrating  the  economies  of  poor 
countries into the global economic system. Developed 
countries  must  also  fulfil  their  commitments  and 
increase  their  official  development  assistance  to  the 
level of 0.7 per cent of their gross domestic product, as 
agreed internationally. 

In that context, the State of Kuwait will spare no 
effort to provide emergency humanitarian assistance to 
States  stricken  by  natural  disasters  or  to  respond  to 
appeals  by  the  United  Nations  or  its  agencies  to 
alleviate the suffering of the peoples of such States. We 
believe  in  the  importance  of  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations in the field of humanitarian assistance, and the 
State  of  Kuwait  has  therefore  increased  its  voluntary 
contributions 
international 
organizations  and  specialized  agencies,  such  as  the 
Office  of  the  United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for 
Refugees, 
the  United  Nations  Central  Emergency 
trading  system 
that  bridges 
to 
a 
number 
of 
11-50865 

23 
and 
and 
initiatives, 
including 
providing 
the  decent 
humanitarian 
A/66/PV.15 

Response Fund and the International Committee of the 
Red Cross.  

Although  the  State  of  Kuwait  is  a  developing 
country, since its independence in 1961 it has followed 
a special policy in support of developing countries and 
least developed countries by extending a helping hand 
and 
development 
assistance  when  and  as  needed.  More 
than  100 
countries  throughout  the  world  have  benefited  from 
that assistance, which exceeds $15 billion. 
The  Emir  of  the  State  of  Kuwait  has  launched 

several 
living 
initiative, the initiative to support and encourage small 
and medium-size projects, and the initiative to develop 
and  rebuild  eastern  Sudan,  with  a  view  to  alleviating 
the suffering in many countries affected by the increase 
in the prices of food and energy, as well as those whose 
economies  have  been  affected  by  the  global  financial 
crisis and have witnessed increased unemployment and 
poverty.  Many  countries  have  benefited  from  those 
initiatives. 
The  United  Nations  has  convened  numerous 

adopted  many 
international 
resolutions,  agreements  and  statements.  It  has  united 
our  visions,  guided  our  endeavours  and  mobilized  our 
resources  and  our  potential  so  as  to  consolidate  our 
common  work  to  combat  corruption,  strengthen  the 
rule  of  law  and  good  governance,  ensure  respect  for 
human  rights,  and  empower  women  and  bolster  their 
role in society, inter alia.  
We look forward to a more effective international 

role within the context of the Alliance of Civilizations 
initiative,  in  order  to  intensify  dialogue  between 
various 
cultures; 
disseminate  the  values  of  tolerance,  moderation  and 
mutual  respect;  and  reject  any  expression  of  violence 
or  extremism,  which  undermine  our  potential  to  work 
together to spread the culture of peace and abide by the 
lofty  purposes  and  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter 
of our Organization. 
The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  On  behalf  of 

the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister of the State of Kuwait for the statement he has 
just made. 

His  Highness  Sheikh  Naser  Al-Mohammad 
Al-Ahmad  Al-Sabah,  Prime  Minister  of  the  State 
of Kuwait, was escorted from the rostrum.  
civilizations, 
conferences 
religions 
and 



  Address by Mr. David Cameron, Prime 
Minister, First Lord of the Treasury 
and Minister for the Civil Service of the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and 
Northern Ireland 
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

address  by  the  Prime  Minister,  First  Lord  of  the 
Treasury  and  Minister  for  the  Civil  Service  of  the 
United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. 
Mr.  David  Cameron,  Prime  Minister,  First  Lord 

of the Treasury and Minister for the Civil Service 
of  the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and 
Northern Ireland, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  President: 
I  have  great  pleasure 

in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. David Cameron, Prime 
Minister,  First  Lord  of  the  Treasury  and  Minister  for 
the  Civil  Service  of  the  United  Kingdom  of  Great 
Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the General Assembly.  
 Mr. Cameron (United Kingdom): It is an honour 
to address the General Assembly for the first time, and 
it  is  a  particular  honour  to  do  so  as  such  momentous 
events  unfold  in  the  Arab  world.  Last  week  I  was  in 
Tripoli  and  Benghazi.  I  saw  the  hunger  of  a  people 
eager  to  get  on  with  reclaiming  their  country,  writing 
themselves  a  new  chapter  of  freedom  and  democracy. 
This  has  been  the  most  dramatic  episode  of  what  has 
been called the Arab Spring. 

My  argument  today  is  that  Libya  and  the  Arab 
Spring show that the United Nations needs a new way 
of  working,  because  the  Arab  Spring  is  a  massive 
opportunity  to  spread  peace,  prosperity,  democracy 
and,  vitally,  security,  but  only  if  we  really  seize  the 
opportunity.  

So  the  events  of  this  year  present  a  challenge  to 
all of us — a challenge to Europe to show it can reform 
its  aid  and  trade  strategy  to  be  truly  progressive;  a 
challenge 
the 
opportunities  of  this  century  with  the  same  courage 
that  won  liberation  in  the  last;  a  challenge  to  the 
Israelis and Palestinians, to take the bold steps to come 
to the table and make lasting peace; a challenge to Iran 
and  to  Syria,  to  give  their  peoples  the  freedoms  they 
deserve; and a challenge to the United Nations. 

One  can  sign  every  human  rights  declaration  in 
the  world,  but  if  one  stands  by  and  watches  people 
being slaughtered in their own country when one could 
the  African  Union, 
to  meet 
to 
24 

11-50865 


act,  then  what  are  those  signatures  really  worth?  The 
United  Nations  has  to  show  that  we  can  be  not  just 
united in condemnation, but united in action, acting in 
a  way  that  lives  up  to  the  United  Nations  founding 
principles and meets the needs of peoples everywhere. 
The  peoples  of  the  Arab  world  have  made  their 

aspirations  clear.  They  want 
transparency  and 
accountability  of  Government,  an  end  to  corruption, 
the fair and consistent rule of law, the chance to get a 
job and to have a stake in how their country is run, the 
freedom to communicate and the chance to participate 
in  shaping  society  as  citizens  with 
rights  and 
responsibilities. 

No  one  says  that  achieving  those  ambitions  will 
be  easy.  There  will  be  false  starts  and  wrong  turns 
along the way, not least where countries have inherited 
sectarian and regional divisions, weak political parties, 
State  institutions  enfeebled  by  misuse  and  a  politics 
distorted by the false choice between repression on the 
one hand and Islamist extremism on the other. 

The  long  process  of  developing  a  new  and 
accountable Government is just beginning. And across 
the  region,  we  cannot  guarantee  that  the  process  of 
reform  is  irreversible.  But  let  us  be  clear.  These 
developments  present  a  great  opportunity  for  many 
who  have  long  been  sold  short  by  their  Governments, 
and there is an opportunity and responsibility for all of 
us, too. 

Just as after 1989 we helped those who tore down 
the Berlin Wall to build robust democracies and market 
economies, just as in 1994 we welcomed South Africa 
back into the commonwealth of nations when it chose 
the  path  of  reconciliation  and  democracy  instead  of 
racial  conflict,  so  now  in  2011,  as  people  in  North 
Africa and the Middle East stand up and give voice to 
their hopes for more open and democratic societies, we 
have an opportunity, and, I would say, a responsibility 
to help them. 
Now the mistake we often make in the West is to 

think  that  because  the  people  in  this  region  want 
democracy, they will want it in the same way and with 
the same outcomes that we do. We should not be trying 
to  impose  Western  values  or  a  single  template  on  the 
region.  Democracy 
is  a  process,  not  an  event. 
Participatory Government involves so much more than 
just the simple act of voting. The Assembly heard not 
long  ago  from  President  Ahmadinejad.  He  did  not 
remind us that he runs a country where they may have 
A/66/PV.15
elections,  of  a  sort,  but  they  also  repress  freedom  of 
speech.  They  do  everything  they  can  to  avoid  the 
accountability  of  a  free  media. They  violently  prevent 
demonstrations. And yes, they detain and torture those 
who  argue  for  a  better  future.  So  we  should  never 
pretend  that  having  elections  is  enough.  The  building 
blocks  of  democracy  have  to  be  patiently  developed 
from the grass roots up. The process will be different in 
every country. And it is not for us to dictate how Arab 
nations  should  respond  to  those  challenges,  or  to 
lecture  them  about  how  to  do  it.  But  there  is  an 
important opportunity for us to help, and we must seize 
it.  

There  are  important  lessons  from  what  has 
happened  in  Libya. The  Libyans  liberated  themselves. 
Ordinary Libyans from all walks of life came together 
and  showed  incredible  resilience  and  bravery  as  they 
rose  up  and  drove  out  Al-Qadhafi.  The  people  of 
Benghazi, the brave fighters of Misurata, the people of 
Zawiyah,  the  warriors  from  the  Nafusa  Mountains,  all 
of  them  showed  incredible  courage  in  liberating  their 
country.  The  National  Transitional  Council,  which 
demonstrated great leadership, not least as Tripoli fell, 
urged  people  to  avoid  reprisals  and  to  look  to  the 
future — a message that still holds true today.  

That  revolution  truly  belongs  to  the  Libyan 
people.  The  United  Nations  played  a  vital  role 
authorizing international action. But let us be clear; the 
United  Nations  is  no  more  effective  than  the  nation 
States  that  come  together  to  enforce  its  will.  And  on 
this occasion a coalition of nations across the Western 
and Arab  world  had  the  will  to  act.  In  doing  so,  they 
stopped Benghazi from joining Srebrenica and Rwanda 
in history’s painful roll call of massacres that the world 
failed  to  prevent.  Today,  Tripoli  and  Benghazi  are 
cities transformed. Where there was fear, now there is 
hope  and  an  optimism  and  belief  that  are  truly 
inspiring.  

But there are challenges ahead, not just in Libya 
but all across the region. Economies in the region have 
underperformed  when  compared  with  their  peers.  In 
1960,  Egypt’s  gross  domestic  product  per  capita  was 
comparable with Korea’s. Today it has fallen to around 
just  one  fifth  of  the  size.  Across  the  region,  some 
countries  dependent  on  oil  revenues,  and  others  held 
back  by  heavy  State  control  have  failed  to  diversify 
and create jobs in productive new sectors and failed to 
connect themselves to the economies of the region and 
the wider world.  
11-50865 

25 

A/66/PV.15 


Indeed,  less  than  four  per  cent  of  North African 
trade is within the region, making it the least integrated 
neighbourhood  in  our  world.  And  the  promise  of 
economic  reform  has  not  been  fulfilled.  Too  often 
people  were  told  economic  reform  would  bring  them 
market  economies  with  greater  freedom  to  start  up 
businesses, to trade, to grow and to create wealth. But 
it  did  not.  It  brought 
them  corrupt  and  crony 
capitalism.  Now  the  future  is  for  the  people  of  this 
region to determine, but I would urge them not to reject 
something they have never had — a genuine, open, fair 
and transparent market economy, which has proved the 
world  over  to  be  the  best  way  to  create  jobs  and 
wealth.  And  the  need  for  economic  success  is  vital, 
because  this  is  a  region  where  60  per  cent  of  the 
population  is  under  25,  and  youth  unemployment  is 
nearly double the world average. 

It is a region that must create 50 million new jobs 
by  2020  just  to  keep  pace  with  its  population;  that 
means  700,000  new  jobs  every  year  in  Egypt  alone. 
And  these  jobs  should  not  be  just  for  men.  Let  us  be 
honest. It is not just the men of the region who want a 
job  and  a  voice. The  unemployment  rate  for  Egyptian 
women is more than three times that of men. And it is 
not only the economy where they are denied the chance 
to  play  a  fuller  role.  It  is  society  and  politics  and 
culture too. But look at the crowds in Freedom Square 
and  we  see  it  is  the  women  too,  finding  their  voices, 
showing  clearly  that  they  want  to  play  a  part  in 
building their future. 

So, in this historic period, when the voice of this 
region  is  finally  being  heard,  there  is  now  a  unique 
opportunity  for  women  to  fulfil  their  ambitions  too. 
This  is  not  just  in  the  interests  of  women.  It  is  in  the 
interests of those countries as a whole. Let us be clear. 
You cannot build strong economies, open societies and 
inclusive  political  systems  if  you  lock  out  women.  So 
the  Arab  Spring  will  not  succeed  if  the  opportunities 
that  are  opening  up  are  denied 
the 
population.  

Now, of course, the actions we take to support the 
people in each country must be tailored to that country, 
with  respect  for  its  particular  culture,  history  and 
tradition.  What  is  right  for  Libya  will  not  necessarily 
be  right  for  everywhere  else.  But  the  international 
community has found its voice in Libya, and we must 
not now lose  our nerve. We must have the confidence 
to speak out and act as necessary to support those who 
seek new freedoms.  
to  half  of 
that  will  meet 
to  support  reform 

In  the  European  Union,  it  is  time  to  ensure  that 
the billions of euros we spend in this region each year 
are  used 
the 
aspirations of the people. And there should be no more 
excuses for denying the people of the region fair access 
to  our  markets,  including  in  agriculture.  Here  at  the 
United  Nations,  we  have  a  responsibility  to  stand  up 
against regimes that persecute their people. We need to 
see reform in Yemen. And above all, on Syria, it is time 
for  the  members  of  the  Security  Council  to  act.  We 
must  now  adopt  a  credible  resolution,  threatening 
tough sanctions. 

Of course we should always act with care when it 
comes  to  the  internal  affairs  of  a  sovereign  State.  But 
we cannot allow this to be an excuse for indifference in 
the  face  of  a  regime  that,  week  after  week,  arrests, 
intimidates, 
tortures  and  kills  people  who  are 
peacefully trying to make their voices heard.  

The voice of the African Union is vital too. Africa 
has  rightly  challenged  the  world  to  meet  its  aid 
commitments.  I  am  proud  that  Britain  will  meet  its 
commitment to spending 0.7 per cent of gross national 
income  from  2013.  And  all  the  countries  that  made 
promises at Gleneagles and elsewhere must meet those 
promises too. In the case of Britain, it means we have 
been able to provide £124 million of emergency aid to 
3  million  people  facing  starvation  in  the  Horn  of 
Africa.  But  at  the  same  time,  Africa  must  meet  its 
responsibilities too.  

Many  will  find  it  hard  to  understand  why 
countries  in  southern  Africa  which  fought  so  hard  to 
throw off oppression themselves, have been so slow to 
respond to the Arab Spring. Of course, I recognize that 
many  have  long  been  committed  to  non-intervention. 
But  my  argument  is  that  where  action  is  necessary, 
legal and right, to fail to act is to fail those who need 
our  help.  So  it  is  welcome  that  the  African  Union  is 
taking  steps  to  recognize  the  National  Transitional 
Council  in  Libya,  as  many  African  countries  have 
already done. Africa’s responsibility now is to embrace 
and  support  Libya’s  new,  inclusive  and  democratic 
future.  And  this  must  include  ensuring  that  those 
wanted  for  serious  crimes  are  brought  to  justice,  and 
that  the  wealth  stolen  from  the  Libyan  people  is 
returned to them.  

We  all  have  a  responsibility  to  the  Palestinians 
too.  A  key  part  of  the  Arab  Spring  is  the  right  of 
Palestinians to have a viable State of their own, living 
26 

11-50865 
talk 


in  peace,  alongside  a  safe  and  secure  State  of  Israel. 
And  I  strongly  support  this.  There  has  been  much 
speculation about what will happen here this week. Let 
us  be  clear  about  one  fact.  No  resolution  can,  on  its 
own, substitute for the political will necessary to bring 
peace.  Peace  will  only  come  when  Palestinians  and 
Israelis  sit  down  and 
to  each  other,  make 
compromises,  build  trust  and  agree.  So  our  role  must 
be  to  support  this,  to  defeat  those  who  embrace 
violence,  to  stop  the  growth  of  settlements  and  to 
support Palestinians and Israelis alike to make peace.  

But the opportunity in Libya and elsewhere in the 
region is not just about achieving a more open society, 
prosperity  and  the  building  blocks  of  democracy  for 
their  own  sake  —  it  is  about  security  too.  Some  have 
argued  that  stability  in  the  Arab  world  can  only  be 
achieved  by  the  tight  control  of  strong  authoritarian 
regimes and that reform is a threat to stability. In fact, 
the  opposite  is  true.  Reform  is  the  basis  of  long-term 
stability. Authoritarianism threatens it.  

While  there  is  never  a  justification  for  resorting 
to  terror,  if  people’s  hunger  for  a  job  and  a  voice  are 
denied,  there  is  a  real  risk  that  the  frustration  and  the 
alienation  they  feel  will  cause  them  to  be  drawn  to 
more violent and extremist responses. That is not just a 
problem  for  one  region.  It  is  a  problem  for  all  of  us. 
Here, in this great city, where 10 years ago, people of 
90  different  nationalities  were  killed  in  the  most 
horrific  terrorist  attack  in  history,  we  must  recognize 
that  political  and  economic  reform  in  the  Middle  East 
is not just good in its own right, but that it is also a key 
part of how, in the end, we will defeat Al-Qaida.  

Of course, we must meet terrorist activity with a 
strong and resolute security response. Al-Qaida and its 
offshoots must know that they will have no safe hiding 
place to plot or recruit young men to train as terrorists. 
But  in  the  long  term,  we  must  defeat  not  only  the 
terrorists,  but  the  extremist  ideology  that  feeds  them. 
Al-Qaida’s  poisonous 
thrived  on 
repression. Democracy is what it fears most. People are 
not  in  Tahrir  Square  in  Cairo  and  Freedom  Square  in 
Libya  for  an  Islamist  caliphate,  but  for  a  job,  a  voice 
and  a  future.  And  we  must  heed  their  call,  for  their 
freedom and for the security of us all.  
the  General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister,  First 
Lord of the Treasury and Minister for the Civil Service 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
ideology  has 
A/66/PV.15
of  the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern 
Ireland for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  David  Cameron,  Prime  Minister,  First  Lord 
of the Treasury and Minister for the Civil Service 
of  the  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and 
Northern Ireland, was escorted from the rostrum. 



the 
  Address by Mr. Herman Van Rompuy, 
President of the European Council 
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  a 

statement by His Excellency Mr. Herman Van Rompuy, 
President of the European Council. 

Mr.  Herman  Van  Rompuy,  President  of 
European Council, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  President: 
I  have  great  pleasure 

in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Herman  Van  Rompuy, 
President of the European Council, and inviting him to 
make a statement 
Mr. Van  Rompuy  (European  Council)  (spoke  in 

French):  Europe  presents 
to  you  a  message  of 
cooperation, support and partnership. I congratulate the 
new  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  Ambassador 
Al-Nasser,  of  Qatar.  We  fully  share,  Mr.  President,  in 
your  commitment  to  mediation  as  the  best  way  to 
achieve the peaceful settlement of conflicts. Your very 
first predecessor was Paul-Henri Spaak, a man who, in 
the  years  after  the  war,  played  a  decisive  role  in  the 
creation  of  a  new  and  unique  forum  for  cooperation 
among  European  States.  At  the  very  beginning,  we 
were six Western European nations. Today, we  form a 
union  of  27  member  States  spanning  an  entire 
continent  with 
and 
500  million 
partnerships throughout the world. 
I  am  not  the  first  President  of  the  European 

Council  to  address  the  General Assembly  to  share  the 
experiences  and  vision  of  Europe.  However,  I  am  the 
first to discharge this duty who is not, at the same time, 
the  head  of  State  or  Government  of  his  country;  the 
first  whose  full-time  position  is  to  work  for  unity 
among  our  27  countries.  That  institutional  innovation 
gives  our  union  greater  continuity  and  coherence, 
including  with  respect  to  others  leaders  worldwide.  I 
therefore  wish  to  thank  the Assembly  for  recognizing 
this innovation, by giving me an opportunity to speak. 
inhabitants, 
11-50865 

27 

A/66/PV.15 

(spoke in English) 
In  the  year  since  the  previous  session  of  the 

General  Assembly  gathered  here, 
the  world  has 
changed.  In some fields, it has  changed for the better. 
That is why I would like to speak, first of all, about our 
hope; secondly, about some of our worries; and thirdly 
and finally, about Europe’s responsibility in the world. 

First, there is hope: Hope for the millions of men 
and women who recently climbed out of poverty — in 
Asia,  in  Latin America  and  fortunately  more  often  in 
Africa 
too.  Emerging  economies  are  becoming 
emerged  societies.  There  is  hope  for  the  newest 
member  of  this  Assembly,  the  Republic  of  South 
Sudan,  since  its  transition  to  independence.  Although 
concerns about the fighting remain, we applaud the end 
to decades of civil war. 

There  is  now  a  new  hope  that  is,  for  the  most 
part,  due  to  the  will  of  the  peoples  in  northern Africa 
and  the  Middle  East  to  take  the  road  of  democracy. 
Even if the fighting is not over, we have seen the defeat 
of  repression  and  of  terrorism,  and  the  victory  of 
forward-looking change.  

For  Europe,  the Arab  Spring  is  one  of  the  most 
momentous political developments since the end of the 
cold  war.  We,  Europeans,  are  linked  closely  with  the 
Arab world by the bonds of history and geography, and 
we wish for this Spring to blossom. And that is why we 
support  all  steps  towards  democratic  transformation 
and  economic  reform  that  benefit  the  people.  We 
support  those  steps  with  financial  resources,  access  to 
our  markets,  mobility  among  our  countries  and  with 
assistance for state- and nation-building. Our aim is for 
the  young  men  and  women 
southern 
neighbourhood  to  feel  that  they  can  build  a  future  in 
their own countries; it is a hope for a better life. 

We have done more than that. When, earlier this 
year,  there  was  a  risk  of  bloodbath  in  Benghazi, 
European  leaders,  together  with  others,  acted  with 
swiftness and determination, diplomatically — here in 
New  York  —  and  militarily.  We  could  not  allow  the 
Libyan regime to take the lives of its own people. The 
principle  of  “responsibility  to  protect”  was  put  into 
action — with perseverance and success. Now there is 
a  responsibility  to  assist  the  new  Libya  with  the 
political transition, reconciliation and reconstruction of 
a  united  country.  The  Transitional  National  Council, 
today  in  the  Libya  seat,  is  ready  for  that  task.  Europe 
was, is, and will remain on the side of the Libyans. 
in  our 

In  my  view,  the  Arab  Spring  has  provided  two 
important  lessons.  The  first  one  is  this:  10  years  ago, 
almost to the day, when the horrific terrorist attacks of 
9/11 were committed in this very city, many feared the 
start  of  an  era  of  religious  hatred.  That  has  not 
happened.  The  people  in  the  streets  of  Tunis,  Cairo, 
Benghazi  and  across  the Arab  world  aspire  to  dignity, 
jobs, equal opportunities, social justice and democracy. 
We  witnessed  neither  extremism,  nor  the  so-called 
clash  of  civilizations,  but  an  episode  in  the  fight  for 
freedom  and  justice.  And  those  should  remain  the 
overriding objectives of the future. 

The  second  lesson  is  that  a  political  system  that 
does not allow for peaceful change will remain weak at 
heart. We praise, therefore, the leaders who are taking 
courageous steps towards positive change. 

But alongside the hope, there is reason for worry, 
too — and that is my second point — about the brutal 
and ongoing repression by the Syrian regime against its 
own  citizens.  Europe  is  keeping  the  pressure  on  the 
regime with sanctions, and we urge others to join us. 

Of  course,  there  are  other  worries  too:  worry 
about  the  famine  in  Somalia,  where  thousands  of 
children  have  died  and  many  more  are  at  risk,  and 
where  we  must  act  decisively;  worry  about  ongoing 
wars  and  conflicts;  worry  about  the  safety  of  nuclear 
reactors;  worry  about  nuclear  proliferation  and  the 
behaviour of the Iranian and North Korean leadership; 
and worry about climate change. In each case, we have 
to  ask  ourselves,  as  the  international  community, 
whether we are doing what we should be doing, both in 
the short term — protecting human lives — and in the 
longer term — preserving life for humankind. 
Faced  with  these  realities  of  hope  and  worry  in 

its 
the  world, 
responsibility,  and  that  is  my  third  point.  We  act, 
supporting the forces of hope and fighting the causes of 
worry, and very concretely so.  
We  fight  the  causes  of  worry  with  means  and 

money.  The  European  Union  is  the  world’s  largest 
donor of development aid and a major donor of climate 
finance for the poorest nations. 

We fight the causes of worry with manpower. We 
have  not  only  tens  of  thousands  of  development 
workers, but also thousands of soldiers, policemen and 
judges  in  missions  around  the  world,  peacekeeping  in 
Africa’s  Great  Lake 
in 
the  European  Union 
training  police 
takes  up 
region, 
28 

11-50865 
in 
in 
In 
the 
conflicts 


Afghanistan  and  Iraq,  patrolling  off  the  coast  of 
Somalia. 
We fight the causes of worry with a sense of the 

issues  of  global 
global  common  good. 
governance,  Europe 
looks  for  solutions.  We  are 
constructive  in  world  trade  negotiations,  ambitious  in 
climate  talks  and  forthcoming  in  the  reform  of  the 
international  financial  institutions,  recognizing  the 
shift  in  global  economic  power.  We  simply  cannot 
accept  a  stalemate,  be  it  in  Durban,  Doha,  Rio  or 
Cannes. 
We  fight  the  causes  of  worry  with  expertise  in 

our 
mediation.  We  mediate 
neighbourhood  and  beyond,  drawing 
from  our 
experience  of  overcoming  age-old  rivalries.  In  the 
Balkans, we bring parties together, and, as a member of 
the Quartet, we are fully engaged in finding a solution 
in the Middle East peace process. 
I would say a word on that issue. The parameters 

for a solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict are well 
known.  The  European  Union  has  outlined  these  on 
numerous  occasions,  including  here  at  the  United 
Nations. There is no reason to repeat them. Now is the 
time 
negotiations. 
Populations  have  lived  in  fear  and  suffering  for  too 
long. 
two-State  solution  was 

established more than 60 years ago. Only half of it has 
been  implemented.  The  European  Union’s  political 
position  on  the  Middle  East  peace  process  is  well 
established; it includes a reference to the 1967 borders, 
with  territorial  swaps  acceptable  to  both  parties. 
Moreover, the Union is fully supporting financially the 
State-building process of the Palestinian Authority. 

Now,  the  resumption  of  direct  talks  between 
Israel and the Palestinian Authority is the top priority. 
The  legitimate  aspirations  of  both  the  Palestinian  and 
the Israeli peoples for peace, safety and statehood must 
be  fulfilled  with  an  agreement  that  will  lead  to  the 
existence of two States living side by side in peace and 
security,  and 
legitimate 
security  needs  and  the  Palestinians’  desire  to  end  the 
occupation. 

That  is  why  I  say  to  the  leaders  on  both  sides: 
The  time  to  act  is  now.  There  are  political  risks,  but 
they  need  to  take  them,  just  like  some  of  their 
predecessors  did,  with  a  view  to  offering  a  better  and 
The  principle  of  a 
include  Israel’s 
therefore 
dialogue 
politics, 
for 
and 
A/66/PV.15
of 
and 
production 
consumption 
safer future to their communities. The status quo is no 
option.  The  winds  of  change  across  the  entire  region 
should  help  them  to  get  out  of  the  impasses.  I  say  to 
the leaders on both sides: History is a severe judge of 
short-sightedness.  Over  time,  it  only  rewards  political 
courage  and  statesmanship.  From 
the  European 
experience, we can tell them that a lasting compromise 
is grounded in mutual sacrifice and trust. 

In  a  few  weeks,  a  woman  somewhere  will  give 
birth to a child, the 7-billionth human being on Earth. 
The  birth  of  a  baby  is  the  strongest  sign  of  hope.  But 
on what planet will this child live? As things stand, we 
cannot  be  certain  of  saving  the  environment.  Present 
patterns 
are 
unsustainable. Moreover, our actions to combat climate 
change are insufficient and below the politically agreed 
objectives. 

Clearly, more needs to be done to align words and 
deeds,  starting  at  the  United  Nations  Climate  Change 
Conference  to  be  held  in  Durban.  Europe  sticks  to  its 
commitments.  We  are  delivering  on  the  emissions 
targets,  and  we  invite  the  rest  of  the  industrialized 
countries  to  join  us.  At  the  coming  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development,  the  world 
should  show  its  renewed  commitment  to  sustainable 
development.  Green  growth  must  become  the  rallying 
cry in countries big and small, rich and poor. And as I 
said,  Europe  is  ready  to  help  the  most  vulnerable 
nations. 

Europe fulfils its responsibilities in the world and 
at  home.  We  are  now  facing  our  most  serious  test  in 
years  —  the  sovereign  debt  crisis  in  the  Eurozone. 
European  leaders  are  making  decisions,  individually 
and jointly, to bring this storm to an end. We are acting 
with  determination  and  in  a  spirit  of  solidarity.  It 
requires political courage and statesmanship. 

The  responsibility  that  I  sense  around  the  table 
with our 27 Presidents and Prime Ministers is not just 
related  to  the  euro’s  weakest  economies,  or  to  the 
eurozone  alone.  No,  we  feel  a  responsibility  for  the 
world  economy  as  such.  Looking  to  the  weeks  and 
months  ahead,  the  Assembly  may  be  assured  that  we 
will  continue  to  do  what  it  takes  to  safeguard  the 
financial  stability  of  the  eurozone,  working  on  more 
governance,  more  fiscal  discipline  and  more  fiscal 
integration.  It 
the  defining  challenge  for  my 
generation. 
is 
11-50865 

29 

to 
it  by  bringing  down 
take  responsibility  for 
A/66/PV.15 


We are aware that people in other economies look 
to  us,  since  our  problems  may  affect  their  jobs, 
pensions  or  savings.  We  likewise  expect  the  other 
major  economies 
their 
internal challenges. Each has to bring its own house in 
order,  be 
its  public  debt, 
stimulating  domestic  demand  or  aligning  exchange 
rates to economic fundamentals. 
(spoke in French)  

Clearly,  our  agenda  is  much  broader.  Members 
may  rest  assured  that  Europe  will  continue  to  stand 
shoulder  to  shoulder  with  the  United  Nations  in  order 
to build a world of peace and security, to promote the 
universal  values  of  human  rights  and  democracy,  and 
to  fight  famine  and  poverty.  In  an 
increasingly 
globalized  world,  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  is 
crucial.  Europe’s  500  million  citizens  reject  any 
turning  inward  or  splendid  isolation.  Furthermore,  the 
world does not belong to any one nation. This world is 
our world, and it belongs to us all. 
the  General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
European Council for the statement he has just made. 

The  President:  On  behalf  of 
Mr.  Herman  van  Rompuy,  President  of 
European  Council,  was  escorted 
from 
rostrum. 
the 
the 



  Address by Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Turkey 
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of 
Turkey.  

Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, Prime Minister of the 
Republic of Turkey, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  President: 

in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, 
Prime Minister of the Republic of Turkey, and inviting 
him to address the General Assembly.  
in  Turkish; 

interpretation provided by the delegation): I extend my 
warm and respectful greetings to all, and hope that the 
sixty-sixth session of the General Assembly will yield 
fruitful results. I would like to congratulate Mr. Nassir 
Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  on  his  assumption  of 
the 
presidency, and extend my sincere appreciation to Mr. 
I  have  great  pleasure 
Mr.  Erdoğan
(Turkey) 
(spoke 
the 
the 
leadership  necessary 
Joseph  Deiss  for  his  service  as  the  previous  President 
of the Assembly. 

We  are  at  a  moment  when  both  the  international 
community and the United Nations are being tested in 
an  unprecedented  manner.  I  feel  obliged,  however,  to 
state very frankly that today the United Nations is not 
demonstrating 
to  help 
humankind overcome its fears of the future. The United 
Nations  must  therefore  reform  itself  and  renew  its 
vision with a view to protecting the universal rights of 
humankind  as  a  whole,  rather  than  act  in  the  interest 
and remain under the guardianship of certain countries. 

Last month in Somalia, for instance, I personally 
witnessed how the United Nations and the international 
community  remain  helpless  in  the  face  of  today’s 
pressing  problems.  It  is  impossible  for  me  to  put  into 
words the poverty and suffering I saw in Somalia. I am 
speaking of this because I have personally witnessed it, 
with my family and ministers. It is not hearsay; I have 
seen  it  myself. The  tragedy  of  Somalia,  where  tens  of 
thousands of children have died for the lack of a mere 
piece of bread and drop of water, is a matter of shame 
for 
international  community  and  cannot  be 
dismissed in a few words. The civil war that has gone 
on for the past 20 years has wiped out all of Somalia’s 
resources and livelihood. The Somali people are being 
gradually dragged to their death as the world looks on. 

The  international  community  is  watching  the 
suffering in Somalia as if it were a movie. It is urgent, 
however, that we face this situation, which is a test of 
our humanity. In doing so, we should not only look at 
the  picture  we  see  today,  but  also  at  the  shameful 
history  that  has  led  Somalia  into  this  great  tragedy. 
Indeed,  beneath  the  tip  of  this  huge  iceberg  lie  great 
crimes against humanity. 

In  that  respect,  the  situation  in  Somalia  has  also 
revealed  the  deep  wounds  inflicted  by  the  colonialist 
mentality  that  kept  Africa  under  its  hegemony  for 
centuries.  Today,  however,  this  cold  colonial  attitude 
stands aloof from places where it has no interest, and is 
watches  idly  as  millions  of  children  die  for  want  of  a 
morsel of bread in Somalia. I will be frank. No one can 
speak  of  peace,  justice  or  civilization  in  the  world  if 
the cry rising from Somalia is left unheard. No words 
are sufficient to describe the agony there. 

Turkey’s  approach  to  Somalia  or  any  other 
international issue is firmly grounded on humanitarian 
launched  a 
principles,  which 
is  why  we  have 
30 

11-50865 
to  date 
totals  more 
the 
the  past 


comprehensive  aid  campaign  for  Somalia  with  the 
strong  support  of  our  nation.  We  have  collected 
donations  from  our  people  of  about  $300  million 
within 
two  months;  moreover,  our 
humanitarian  assistance 
than 
$30 million. We also organized an emergency meeting 
of the Organization of Islamic Cooperation in Istanbul, 
at which pledges exceeded $350 million. 

Along  with  emergency  humanitarian  aid,  Turkey 
is  also  determined  to  help  build  the  infrastructure  and 
facilities  that  will  enable  Somalia  to  stand  on  its  own 
feet.  In  that  regard,  Turkey  has  undertaken  a  wide 
range  of  projects,  from  transportation  to  health  and 
education,  and  from  agriculture 
to  fisheries  and 
construction,  including  roads,  hospitals,  schools  and 
water wells. By reopening our embassy in Mogadishu, 
we  have  also  shown  the  world  that  claims  of  security 
problems cannot be an excuse for delaying assistance. 

Along with such measures, it is also essential that 
we bring an end to the civil war as quickly as possible 
and  provide  Somalia  with  democratic  and  unified 
governance in order to succeed in the fight against the 
piracy  and  terrorism  originating  there.  In  that  regard, 
we  would  ask  everyone 
the 
international community refuses to bestow on Somalia 
the attention it has given to conflict areas elsewhere in 
the world. The entire international community must act 
with a sense of utmost urgency in support of the efforts 
to  build  peace  and  stability  in  Somalia. The  civil  war 
that  has  suffocated  our  Somali  brothers  for  20  years 
must end without further delay. 

In  that  context,  the  recent  progress  made  by 
Somali  leaders  towards  building  a  national  consensus 
gives  us  hope  for  the  future.  As  Somalia  resumes  its 
well-deserved 
international 
community,  the  world  will  become  a  safer  and  more 
stable place. It is precisely this understanding that lies 
at  the  heart  of  Turkey’s  determined  efforts  to  help 
Somalia.  We  are  making  every  attempt  to  implement 
infrastructure  investments  that  will  enable  Somalia  to 
stand  on  its  feet,  and  working  unrelentingly  to  help 
establish  an  environment  of  political  stability  and 
peace  conducive  to  sustainable  development.  We  are 
doing  this  solely  because  it  is  our  humanitarian 
responsibility,  and  with  no  other  motive.  It  is  our 
greatest  hope  that  the  leadership  demonstrated  by 
Turkey  in  this  area  will  set  an  example  for  the  entire 
international community. 
to  consider  why 
place  within 
A/66/PV.15
self-interest 

For  us,  the  United  Nations  symbolizes  the  ideal 
that  international  law  and  justice  shall  prevail  over 
sheer  force  and  oppression,  that  peace  shall  prevail 
over conflict, and that the conscience of humanity shall 
prevail  over  narrow 
and  political 
equilibrium.  That  is  what  I  understand  the  United 
Nations to be. 

The greatest impediment to the realization of this 
ideal  is  the  Arab-Israel  conflict,  which  has  been 
ongoing for more than half a century. The fact that this 
problem  is  still  not  resolved  and  that  rights,  law  and 
justice  have  been  sacrificed  for  the  sake  of  political 
balance  is  the  greatest  blow  to  the  our  sense  of 
international justice.  

To  date,  Israel  has  not  complied  with  —  and  I 
emphasize this number — 89 binding resolutions of the 
Security  Council.  In  addition,  there  are  hundreds  of 
resolutions  adopted  by  the  General  Assembly  —  this 
very  body  —  that  Israel  has  ignored.  Even  more 
regrettable is the fact that the United Nations has been 
helpless to take a single step to end the human tragedy 
suffered by the Palestinian people.  
Therefore,  I  must  ask  is  whether  the  United 

Nations  will  fail  to  implement  the  sanctions  it  has 
imposed  on  other  countries  just  as  it  has  failed  to 
implement  its  resolutions  concerning  Israel.  Will  the 
United  Nations  assiduously  follow  through  on  the 
resolutions it has taken with regard to other places, for 
example,  the  Sudan?  We  really  do  need  to  look  at 
ourselves in the mirror. 
This  situation  causes  great  indignation  in  the 

international  community 
it 
cannot remain unresolved; the international community 
must act urgently to heal this bleeding wound.  
readily  uses  phosphate  bombs  and 

possesses 
the  atom  bomb,  and  has  endured  no 
sanctions.  But  if  even  the  hint  of  such  a  possibility 
emerges  elsewhere  in  the  region,  efforts  are  made  to 
suppress it. I ask whether that is fair and just.  

To be frank, the problem in this context is caused 
by  the  Israeli  Government.  Those  who  govern  the 
country take steps every day that, instead of paving the 
way for peace, build new barriers to it. Thus, it is the 
Palestinian  territories  that  are  under  occupation,  not 
Israeli  territory.  It  is  a  contradiction  of  history  to  say 
that  it  the  occupied  lands  are  Israeli  territory.  It  is 
Palestinian  territory  that  is  under  occupation.  It  is 
in  general.  Therefore, 
Israel 
11-50865 

31 

I  ask 
the  Assembly;  Does 
in 
the  calls  of 
the  occupied 
the 
A/66/PV.15 

Israel that uses disproportionate force. Once again, it is 
Israel that does not abide by international will. 
In this context, the illegal settlements that are still 

territories  of 
being  established 
Palestine,  despite 
international 
community  to  stop,  as  well  as  the  blockade  on  Gaza, 
stand out in particular.  

the  Universal 
Declaration  of  Human  Rights  allow  for  a  country, 
society  or  people  to  be  cut  off  from  international 
justice?  In  my  copy  of  the  Universal  Declaration  of 
Human  Rights,  I  do  not  see  such  a  possibility.  If  you 
want to send a box of tomatoes to Palestine, you must 
get  permission  from  Israel,  and  I  do  not  think  that  is 
humane.  

As I have stated before, those who govern Israel 
must  make  a  choice.  Loopholes  in  the  United  Nations 
system  and  lobbies  in  some  countries  may  give  Israel 
the  opportunity  to  evade  international  law  and  justice 
as it pursues its illegitimate actions. However, that will 
not  ensure  —  and  I  say  this  with  emphasis  —  the 
security that Israel needs today.  

Those  who  govern  Israel  must  see  that  real 
security  is  possible  only  by  building  real  peace.  I 
would  like  once  again  to  remind  Israel  from  this 
rostrum that nothing can substitute for peace. What we 
face  today  is  not  a  simple  equation  of  peace  for 
security.  Israel  must  read 
the  newly  flourishing 
political  and  social  landscape  in  the  Middle  East  and 
understand that it will no longer be possible to carry on 
in environment of continuous strife and conflict.  

If  we,  as  the  international  community,  believe 
that  the  ideal  of  establishing  international  peace  and 
security  is  the  founding  principle  of  the  United 
Nations,  then  it  is  time  pressure  Israel  to  achieve 
peace, despite the actions of its leaders, and to show it 
clearly that it is not above the law. 

One  of  the  most  important  steps  that  need  to  be 
taken  in  this  regard  is  responding  to  the  legitimate 
demands of the Palestinian people to be recognized as 
a  State  and  to  have  the  representatives  of  the  State  of 
Palestine 
this 
Assembly as a Member of the United Nations. Indeed, 
in  1947 
through  resolution 
181 (II),  declared  Palestine  a  State,  but  unfortunately 
that resolution was not implemented.  
their  well-deserved  place 
the  United  Nations, 
take 
in 
has 
never 
hostile 
pursued 

Turkey’s  support  for  the  recognition  of  the  State 
of  Palestine  is  unconditional.  Turkey  will  continue  to 
work  actively  in  the  Middle  East  to  ensure  peace. We 
stand ready to do so. Accordingly, we will continue to 
work  actively  for  the  resolution  of  the  Arab-Israeli 
conflict,  the  recognition  of  the  State  of  Palestine,  the 
achievement  of  unity  among  Palestinians,  and  the 
lifting  of  the  illegal  blockade  enforced  against  the 
people of Gaza.  

This  commitment  is  a  natural  extension  of  our 
vision  for  regional  peace  and  stability  and  our 
commitment to international law and justice. It is also 
the  result  of  the  responsibility  we  feel  in  this  area. 
Similarly,  when  a  humanitarian  aid  convoy  of 
participants from 33 countries was attacked by air and 
sea  in  international  waters,  resulting  in  the  deaths  of 
nine innocent civilians, we could not remain silent. Our 
reaction 
to 
Israel  was  a  manifestation  of  our 
conviction.  

Turkey 
and 
confrontational policies against any State. Our foreign 
policy  is  based  on  the  principles  of  friendship  and 
cooperation. Our policy towards Israel is no exception 
to  these  principles.  However,  Israel  has  seriously 
wronged  a  country  and  its  people  who  have  through 
history  shown  great  friendship  to  it  and  its  people. 
What  we  demand  of  Israel  is  clear.  Israel  must 
apologize,  pay  compensation  to  the  families  of  our 
martyrs  and  lift  the  blockade  on  Gaza.  Until  Israel 
meets these demands and takes steps in  this direction, 
our position will not change.  

Let me also emphasize from this rostrum that we 
do  not  have  a  problem  with  the  people  of  Israel.  Our 
problem  arises  from  the  aggressive  policies  of  the 
current  Israeli  Government.  In  fact,  we  have  had  very 
constructive 
Israeli 
Governments,  making  great  strides  in  a  number  of 
areas.  Currently,  the  source  of  tension  is  solely  the 
Israeli Government.  
Turkey  is  a  country  that  is  trustworthy  in  the 

international 
and 
cooperation  are  sought.  We  will  not  abandon  this 
principled and determined policy. 

We  are  witnessing  a  historic  process  of 
transformation  and  change  in  the  Middle  East.  From 
the  very  first  day  when  these  events  began,  we 
appealed to all administrations in the region to lend an 
ear  to  the  calls  of  their  people  for  democracy.  The 
relations  with 
and  whose 
friendship 
previous 
arena 
32 

11-50865 


ultimate source of legitimacy for every Government is, 
above  all,  the  people  and  its  will.  What  needs  to  be 
done is to ensure that the people’s will is realized in a 
free and open manner. 

We  have  also  said  that  sovereignty  derives  from 
the  will  of  the  people. Any  sovereignty  that  does  not 
rest  on  the  will  of  the  people  is  not  legitimate. 
Sovereignty does not allow any leader or any regime to 
repress  its  own  people  or  kill  innocent  civilians.  A 
regime that points guns at its own people can have no 
sovereignty  or 
legitimacy.  Today,  everyone  must 
understand  that  times  have  changed.  The  era  of 
Governments that do not meet the legitimate needs and 
expectations of their people and of administrations that 
oppress  and  repress  their  people  and  fail  to  give  the 
highest priority to justice has come to an end.  

This  was  the  call  we  made. We  are  very  pleased 
to see that our calls have been heeded in Egypt, Tunisia 
and  Libya  and  have  paved  the  way  for  democratic 
transformation  and  transition  on  the  basis  of  the 
legitimate  demands  of  the  people  in  those  countries. 
This  gives  us  hope  for  the  future.  We  observe  with 
regret,  however,  that  some  countries  continue  to  stay 
behind  the  curve  of  events  and  react  with  misguided 
reflexes owing to their outdated state of mind.  
In that context, we are very closely following the 

developments  unfolding 
is  our 
neighbour and therefore very important to Turkey. The 
current  situation  in  Syria  gives  us  great  cause  for 
the  Government  are 
concern.  The  actions  of 
unacceptable  and  we  have  warned 
the  Syrian 
leadership  many  times  to  that  effect.  We  share  a 
910-kilometre  border.  We  have  ties  and  relatives  on 
both  sides  of  the  border.  We  have  always  spoken  the 
truth, because we believe that friends always speak the 
truth, no matter how bitter. We have always stated that 
the voices, demands and wishes of the people must be 
heard.  We  have  said  that  persecution  and  oppression 
cannot generate prosperity. We must listen to the call of 
the people for democracy, not point guns at them.  

has 
leadership 
persistently ignored our warnings. Now, every drop of 
blood  spilled  in  the  country  only  widens  and  deepens 
the divide between the people and the administration of 
Syria.  Turkey  will  continue  to  support  the  legitimate 
and  democratic  demands  of  the  people  of  Syria  and 
elsewhere, and to call on regimes to respect the wishes 
in  Syria,  which 
Unfortunately, 
the  Syrian 
A/66/PV.15
as 
a  democratic,  united 
and  expectations  of  their  people.  We  expect  the 
international community to do the same. 

In that regard, we are increasing our cooperation 
with  Tunisia  and  Egypt.  In  Libya,  Turkey  has 
supported  the  National  Transitional  Council  from  the 
very beginning. We are very proud to announce that we 
were  the  first  country  to  restore  its  Ambassador  to 
Libya. We  will  continue  to  staunchly  support  the  new 
Libya  as  it  resumes  its  well-deserved  place  in  the 
United  Nations 
and 
independent State.  

During  my  visit  to  Libya  last  week,  I  went  to 
Tripoli,  Tajura,  Misurata  and  Benghazi,  holding 
meetings  in  all  four  cities.  I  met  and  spoke  with  the 
people.  I  saw  and  sensed  the  righteous  pride  of  the 
Libyan people in their revolution. I also witnessed the 
destruction in Misurata.  

I  believe  that  the  international  community  must 
be  very  sensitive  to  certain  issues  in  terms  of  Libya. 
First, Libya and its resources belong to the Libyans. As 
democracy is established in Libya, it is very important 
that  the  country’s  frozen  assets  abroad  be  released 
immediately  so  that  Libya  can  stand  on  its  own  two 
feet.  We  want  to  ensure  that  the  Libyans  have  the 
resources  they  really  need.  Currently,  the  country  has 
$170  billion  in  assets  abroad,  but  the  people  cannot 
benefit  from  them.  In  that  regard,  it  is  essential  to 
implement  resolution  2009  (2011). The  Libyan  people 
can  determine  their  own  future  and  we  must  respect 
their choices.  
A  fair,  comprehensive  and  lasting  solution  must 

be  found  to  the  long-standing  problem  in  Cyprus, 
which  has  persisted  for  more  than  half  a  century. The 
United Nations plan put forward in 2004 demonstrated 
that the parameters of a solution are there, but that the 
Greek Cypriot side lacks the necessary will to make it 
a  reality.  The  Turkish  Cypriot  side,  however,  has  still 
not been freed from the isolation imposed upon it, even 
though it has always expressed its full determination to 
find a solution. Nevertheless, the Turkish Cypriot side 
has remained committed to a peaceful solution and has 
participated with goodwill in the negotiations resumed 
under United Nations auspices.  

The objective is to finalize the negotiations by the 
end of this year and have the settlement plan endorsed 
in  simultaneous  referendums  early  next  year,  thus 
enabling  a  united  new  Cyprus  to  take  its  place  in  the 
European  Union  without  further  delay.  Turkey  will 
11-50865 

33 

to  engage 
A/66/PV.15 

continue to provide all necessary support so as to reach 
a  solution  as  soon  as  possible,  in  line  with  that 
timetable.  I  wish  to  emphasize,  however,  that  if  the 
intransigent attitude of the Greek Cypriot side does not 
permit  this  to  happen,  as  a  guarantor  country  we  will 
not  let  the  future  of  the  Turkish  Cypriots  remain 
uncertain forever.  

Moreover,  at  this  critical  juncture,  we  cannot 
accept any attempt by the Greek Cypriot side to act as 
if  it  were  the  sole  representative  of  the  Island  or  had 
the  authority  to  make  decisions  on  behalf  of  the 
Turkish  Cypriots.  In  that  regard,  the  attempts  of  the 
Greek  Cypriot  side  to  unilaterally  determine  maritime 
jurisdiction  areas  and 
in  exploration 
activities  in  oil  and  natural  gas  fields  are  extremely 
irresponsible  in  terms  of  both  timing  and  possible 
outcomes.  

In  the  face  of  these  unilateral  activities  of  the 
Greek  Cypriot  side,  which  appear  to  be  aimed  at 
provoking a crisis, Turkey and the Turkish Cypriot side 
will  act  with  common  sense,  but  also  will  resolutely 
protect  their  rights  under  international  law.  At  this 
point, we expect all concerned parties to work actively 
to  ensure  that  the  Greek  Cypriot Administration  halts 
these  activities,  which  could  lead  to  tension,  not  only 
on 
the  region. 
Otherwise, we will do whatever is necessary.  

illegitimate  occupation  of  Azerbaijani 
territories,  which  has  been  ongoing  for  many  years, 
must  come  to  an  end.  It  is  unacceptable  to  allow  the 
Nagorny Karabakh conflict to remain unresolved to the 
extent that it is today.  

All  of  us  bear  political  and  moral  responsibility 
for resolving international problems before they lead to 
stalemates. In that respect, more effective efforts must 
be made to peacefully resolve the Kashmir conflict and 
many other frozen disputes, which I will not enumerate 
here.  Conversely,  peace  and  stability  in  the  Balkans 
can  be  achieved  with  the  recognition  of  Kosovo’s 
independence.  

Turkey  has  always  been  a  staunch  supporter  of 
the principles and goals enshrined in the Charter of the  

the  Island,  but  also 
throughout 
The 

I 
that  our 
also  believe 
for  Turkey’s  candidacy 
United  Nations.  I  believe 
that  we  showed  our 
commitment  in  that  respect  during  our  tenure  as  a 
non-permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council  in 
2009-2010. 
effective 
performance at that time attests to what we intend to do 
if re-elected to the Security Council for 2015-2016. In 
this  regard,  I  to  take  this  opportunity  to  reaffirm  that 
we  count  on  the  support  of  all  the  Members  of  the 
General  Assembly 
to  a 
non-permanent  seat  in  the  Security  Council  for  the 
term 2015-2016. 

As  yet  another  manifestation  of  our  support  for 
the goals of the United Nations, we are also determined 
to pursue the Istanbul Programme of Action adopted at 
the  Fourth  United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Least 
Developed  Countries,  which  Turkey  hosted  early  this 
year.  We  are  also  continuing  our  efforts  to  implement 
as  soon  as  possible 
the  announced  package  of 
economic  and  technical  cooperation  for  the  least 
developed  countries.  As  part  of  that  package,  which 
includes many areas of cooperation ranging from trade 
to  education  and  agriculture  to  energy,  we  intend  to 
provide  the  least  developed  countries  with  annual 
assistance of $200 million. We also envisage increasing 
our  direct  investments  in  these  countries  to  $5  billion 
and $12 billion by 2015 and 2020, respectively. 

We  consider  security,  development  and  respect 
for human rights to be integral parts of the same whole. 
Together, 
fundamental 
guarantee  of  lasting  peace.  Turkey  will  continue  to 
work  towards  the  attainment  of  these  fundamental 
objectives of the United Nations and make every effort 
to leave future generations a safer and more prosperous 
world. 
the  General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Republic of Turkey for the statement he has just made. 
Mr. Recep Tayyip Erdoğan, Prime Minister of the 

Republic  of  Turkey,  was  escorted 
the 
rostrum. 
  The meeting rose at 3.15 p.m. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
they  constitute 
the  most 
from 
34 

11-50865 
