
A/66/PV.48
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

48th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 2 November 2011, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 







In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Ms.  Kamara 
(Liberia), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m. 




Agenda item 86 (continued)
Report of the International Atomic Energy Agency 

  Note by the Secretary-General (A/66/95) 

  Draft resolution (A/66/L.6) 
The Acting  President:  Members  will  recall  that 

the  Assembly  considered  item  86  at  its  46th  plenary 
meeting  on  1  November.  We  shall  now  hear  the 
remaining speakers. 
Mr.  Shin  Dong  Ik  (Republic  of  Korea):  At  the 

outset,  allow  me  to  thank  Director  General  Yukiya 
Amano  for  presenting  the  2010  annual  report  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  (see 
A/66/95) and for his statement (see A/66/PV.46), which 
provides  additional  information  on  the  past  year’s 
developments  in  the Agency’s  activities.  I  would  also 
like to express our appreciation to the Director General 
and to the secretariat of the IAEA for their dedication 
and  professionalism  in  carrying  out  the  statutory 
mandates of the IAEA. 
The  IAEA  plays  a  vital  role  in  accelerating  and 

enlarging  the  contribution  of  atomic  energy  to  peace, 
health  and  prosperity  throughout  the  world.  Those 
mandates  are  subject  to  ever-increasing  demands  and 
new  challenges,  ranging  from  the  risks  of  nuclear 
proliferation and nuclear terrorism to nuclear safety, as 

the 
that 
in  2010.  The  nuclear 
shown  by  the  Fukushima  accident.  To  meet  those 
challenges  and  demands,  we  are  of  the  view  that  the 
IAEA  should  be  equipped  with 
the  appropriate 
resources to maintain its capacity.  

I  would  like  to  comment  on  several  topics 
covered  in  the  report  that  are  important  to  my 
delegation,  namely,  safeguards  and  nuclear  safety  and 
security.  The  report  shows 
international 
nuclear  community  maintained  a  high  level  of  safe 
performance 
incident  at 
Fukushima,  however,  sent  an  unmistakable  signal  to 
the  international  community  that  we  cannot  afford  to 
remain complacent when it comes to nuclear safety. In 
that  regard,  we  welcome  the  adoption,  by  this  year’s 
General Conference of the IAEA, of the Action Plan on 
Nuclear  Safety,  which  outlines  practical  measures  to 
strengthen  the  global  nuclear  safety  framework  in 
12 key  areas.  We 
its  effective 
the  full  cooperation  and 
implementation 
participation of Member States. Properly implemented, 
those  measures  and  the  lessons  learned  from  the 
Fukushima  accident  will  serve  to  enhance  global 
nuclear 
sustainable 
development of nuclear energy.  

The  work  of  the  IAEA  in  the  field  of  nuclear 
security,  particularly  the  efforts  to  coordinate  and 
enhance  cooperation  among  various  initiatives  and 
activities,  is  also  noteworthy.  However,  the  threat  of 
terrorism  is  real.  Indeed,  as  evidenced  by  the  IAEA 
Illicit  Trafficking  Database,  172 
incidents  were 
reported  during  the  one-year  period  ending  in  June. 
Those  include  14  cases  of  unauthorized  possession 
look  forward 
promote 
through 
safety 
and 
the 
to 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-57701 (E) 
*1157701* 




to 
and 
support 
of 
the 
the  Summit  held 
remains  committed 
A/66/PV.48 

and/or  attempts  to  sell  or  smuggle  nuclear  material  or 
radioactive sources. In that connection, the Republic of 
Korea 
improving  nuclear 
security through its contributions to the IAEA Nuclear 
Security  Fund  and  its  support  for  the  relevant  legal 
instruments and international activities.  

In  March  2012,  the  Republic  of  Korea  will  host 
the  second  Nuclear  Security  Summit. The  2012  Seoul 
Summit will provide an excellent opportunity to review 
the  commitments  made  at 
in 
Washington,  D.C.,  in  2010,  assess  existing  nuclear 
security  practices  and  challenges,  and  consider  ways 
and means for realizing a stronger, more cohesive and 
responsive  global  nuclear  security  regime.  While 
recognizing  the  central  role  of  the  IAEA  in  that  field, 
the  Seoul  Summit  will  try  to  maximize  the  synergies 
among various initiatives and activities to keep nuclear 
materials  and  related  facilities  in  safe  hands. We  look 
forward  to  a  successful  outcome  and  request  the 
cooperation 
international 
community to that end.  

We  highly  appreciate  the  comprehensive  report 
released by the Director General early in September on 
the  application  of  safeguards 
the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic 
(GOV/2011/53-
GC(55)/24),  the  first  of  its  kind  in  the  history  of  the 
IAEA’s  dealings  with  the  North  Korean  nuclear  issue. 
The  report  is  all  the  more  meaningful  as  the  Agency 
has  provided  an  analysis  of  the  uranium  enrichment 
programme  of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea  for  the  first  time  since  it  was  discovered  in 
November  2010.  The  report  states  that  that  country’s 
nuclear programme is a matter of serious concern and 
that  information  about  the  construction  of  a  new 
uranium  enrichment  facility  and  a  light-water  reactor 
are deeply troubling.  

the 
the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  has  not 
abandoned its existing nuclear programme, contrary to 
the  provisions  of  Security  Council  resolutions  1718 
(2006)  and  1874  (2009),  and  underlines  that  the 
country’s  uranium  enrichment  programme  therefore 
clearly violates those resolutions. In the current climate 
of  dialogue,  we  look  forward  to  the Agency  resuming 
an active role in the process of the denuclearization of 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. 

In addition, we welcome the unanimous adoption 
of the resolution on the Democratic People’s Republic 
in 
of  Korea 
report  emphasizes 
Moreover, 
that 
its 
uranium 
including 
of  Korea  (GC(55)/RES/13)  at  the  fifty-fifth  IAEA 
General  Conference,  especially  as  it  marks  the  first 
time that the international organization has condemned 
the  country’s  uranium  enrichment  programme  since  it 
was  discovered.  The  resolution  expresses  concern 
regarding  the  country’s  claimed  uranium  enrichment 
programme  and  light-water  reactor  construction  and 
calls on the country to fully comply with the Treaty on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  and 
to  promptly  cooperate  with  the  IAEA  in  the  full  and 
effective 
implementation  of  IAEA  comprehensive 
safeguards.  In  that  context,  we  strongly  urge  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  once  again  to 
abandon  all  nuclear  weapons  and  existing  nuclear 
programmes  and  to  immediately  cease  all  related 
activities, 
enrichment 
programme. 

We  take  note  of  the  entry  into  force  of  the 
comprehensive safeguards agreement in five States and 
of  additional  protocols  in  10  States  during  2010.  It  is 
encouraging  to  hear  that  110  States  have  already 
ratified the additional protocol. We urge other Member 
States that have not yet done so to conclude and bring 
into force the comprehensive safeguards agreement and 
its additional protocol. 

In full support of the work of the IAEA, and with 
a  view  to  achieving  our  common  goal  of  harnessing 
nuclear energy in the service of peace and development 
for  humanity,  the  Republic  of  Korea  is  pleased  to 
sponsor the draft resolution (A/66/L.6) on the report of 
the IAEA.  
Mr. Abdelaziz (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): I would 

first  like  to  extend  my  thanks  to  the  Director  General 
of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA), 
Mr. Yukiya Amano, for his presentation. I would like to 
underline  that  Egypt  has  become  a  sponsor  of  draft 
resolution A/66/L.6. 

International  crises  in  the  fields  of  energy  and 
climate change pose constraints on the growing energy 
needs of the developing world in terms of quantity and 
quality.  The  IAEA  report  (see  A/66/95)  demonstrates 
the  continued  importance,  amid  those  challenges,  of 
nuclear technology for electricity generation and points 
out that 60 countries have so far expressed an interest 
in exploring the use of nuclear energy.  Many of those 
States will begin operating their first reactors by 2030. 
That  attests  to  the  growing  interest  in  the  inalienable 
right  to  acquire  and  use  nuclear  technologies  for 
2 

11-57701 
its 
role 
in 
supporting 
The 


peaceful purposes, in accordance with article IV of the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
(NPT).  That  right  was  further  reiterated  in  the  Final 
Document  of 
the  2010  NPT  Review  Conference 
(NPT/CONF.2010/50  (Vol.  I)),  which  emphasized  the 
importance  of  respecting  the  decisions  and  policies  of 
non-nuclear-weapon States regarding their plans to use 
nuclear energy for their development needs and for the 
peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy  in  the  implementation 
of  such  plans,  without  any  constraints  and  through 
international  cooperation  on  the  necessary  nuclear 
technologies and materials. 

timetable  of  Egypt’s  nuclear  energy 
programme has continued to evolve and to be assessed, 
as  Egypt  undergoes  fundamental  transformation,  to 
allow the consideration of recent lessons learned from 
other  countries’  experiences  as  we  continue  to  make 
progress in the implementation of this national project, 
working  on  achieving 
legitimate  goals  and 
responding  to  our  development  needs.  Egypt  looks 
forward  to  further  cooperation  with  the  IAEA,  given 
the  Agency’s  growing 
the 
sustainable  development  of  its  non-nuclear-weapon 
member States that are party to the NPT, and in light of 
its role in facilitating their access to nuclear energy and 
responding to their needs in that important area. 

Egypt  remains  at  the  forefront  of  countries  that 
have provided unlimited support to the IAEA since its 
establishment;  it  has  continued  that  support  to  date, 
based  on  its  belief  in  the  value  of  the  IAEA’s  role  in 
nuclear  non-proliferation  and 
the 
peaceful use of nuclear energy to support the ambitions 
and  global  needs  of  developing  countries  in  a  wide 
range of areas.  

the  Non-Proliferation  Treaty 
ensure  compliance  with  the  comprehensive  safeguards 
regime  of  the  IAEA,  which  remains  a  major  pillar  of 
the  non-proliferation  system,  through  the  Agency’s 
verification 
mechanisms. 
Nevertheless,  that  regime  has  yet  to  be  fully  effective 
as  it  lacks  universality,  especially  in  the  Middle  East 
region. Intensified international efforts are necessary to 
ensure 
comprehensive 
safeguards system in all countries of the region without 
exception. 

Significant  progress  is  necessary  to  achieve  a 
global  comprehensive  safeguards  system,  universality 
of 
the  NPT,  as 
implementation 
in  promoting 
strengthening 
the  NPT  and 
the  accession 
to 
States  party 
to 
and 
of 
the 
11-57701 

A/66/PV.48
non-nuclear-weapon  States,  of  three  countries  that 
remain  outside  the  Treaty.  That  would  encourage 
non-nuclear  States  to  make  further  commitments  and 
thus  reinforce  the  NPT  regime  in  a  balanced  and 
non-discriminatory  manner  both  at 
regional  and 
international levels. 

At  the  regional  level,  all  of  the  countries  of  the 
Middle  East  are  in  compliance  with  their  obligations 
under  the  IAEA  comprehensive  safeguards  system, 
except  Israel,  whose  opaque  nuclear  activities  have 
remained outside any international control, while it has 
continued to ignore dozens of appeals and international 
resolutions  demanding  its  accession  to  the  NPT  as  a 
non-nuclear-weapon State and the submission of all of 
its  nuclear  facilities  to  the  full  scope  of  the  IAEA 
safeguards.  There  is  no  doubt  that  this  continuing 
situation  increases  the  risk  of  nuclear  proliferation  in 
the  Middle  East  and  hinders  the  establishment  of  a 
nuclear-weapon-free zone in the region. 

In that regard, Egypt believes that the conference 
on the establishment of a zone free of nuclear weapons 
and  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction  in  the  Middle 
East,  to  be  convened  in  2012,  will  offer  promising 
prospects for concrete progress. In that context, Egypt 
looks  forward  to  the  background  documents  to  be 
prepared  by  the  IAEA  in  accordance  with  the  fourth 
action  plan  adopted  at  the  2010  Review  Conference. 
My  country  welcomes  the  seminar  convened  by  the 
European  Union  on  6  and  7  July  on  supporting  the 
establishment  of  a  zone  free  of  nuclear  weapons  and 
other weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East. 
The IAEA Forum on Experience of Possible Relevance 
to the Creation of a Nuclear-Weapon-Free Zone in the 
Middle  East,  to  be  held  on  21  and  22  November, 
represents  an  additional  opportunity  to  contribute  to, 
rather  than  replace,  the  substantive  preparations  in 
support of the 2012 conference set to take place under 
the  auspices  of  the  Secretary-General,  pursuant  to 
paragraph  7  (a)  of  part  I,  section  IV,  of  the  Final 
Document  of 
the  2010  NPT  Review  Conference 
(NPT/CONF.2010/50 (Vol.I)). 

The  year  2011  witnessed  the  earthquake  and 
tsunami  disasters  that  caused  the  Fukushima  nuclear 
power  plant  accident  in  March.  Egypt  reiterates  its 
solidarity with the people of Japan in dealing with the 
effects  of  that  disaster,  and  its  willingness  to  provide 
assistance  to  any  country  facing  a  similar  accident. 
Lessons  must  be  drawn  from  the  accident,  which  has 
shown  the  importance  of  the  IAEA’s  central  role  in 
3 

through 
to  nuclear  safety, 
A/66/PV.48 

matters  relating 
including  by 
assisting  member  States,  at  their  request,  in  capacity-
building  and  infrastructure,  as  well  as  in  providing 
expertise  and  advice  and  in  strengthening  the  nuclear 
safety culture in all parts of the world, while seeking to 
formulate  comprehensive,  progressive  nuclear  safety 
standards to be agreed by Member States in a gradual, 
comprehensive and transparent manner. 

In  that  context,  Egypt  attaches  great  importance 
to the promotion of international cooperation aimed at 
strengthening national capacities in the field of nuclear 
safety  and  enabling  them  to  respond  to  nuclear  and 
radiological emergencies, in particular through the free 
flow of information and the transfer without prejudice 
of  relevant  technology.  In  accordance  with  its  Statute, 
the  IAEA  should  seek  to  assist  member  States  with 
to  nuclear 
emergency  preparedness  and  response 
accidents, 
capacity-building, 
including 
education  and  training  in  crisis  management  and 
technology transfer. 

Those  important  issues  were  considered  by  the 
IAEA ministerial  conference on nuclear  safety held in 
Vienna  in  July  2011,  which  provided  a  forum  for 
preliminary  assessment  of  the  Fukushima  nuclear 
accident  and  for  exchanging  views  on  lessons  learned 
aimed  at  further  strengthening  the  framework  on 
nuclear  safety,  emergency  preparedness  and  response 
mechanisms.  It  also  helped  to  launch  a  process  —  in 
which  Egypt  participated  actively  —  that  resulted  in 
the  adoption  of  the  action  plan  of  the  outcome  of  the 
2010  NPT  Review.  In  the  same  vein,  the  high-level 
meeting  convened  by 
the  Secretary-General  on 
22 September 
in 
highlighting  once  again  this  important  subject  as  well 
as the crucial role of the IAEA in this area. 

Regarding  nuclear  security,  the  Seoul  Summit  to 
be held in March 2012 will serve as an opportunity to 
focus on the important issue of the security of nuclear 
materials  and  preventing  them  from  falling  into  the 
hands  of 
the  other 
frameworks,  including  Security  Council  resolution 
1540 (2004). On the other hand, the crucial role of the 
IAEA in the field of nuclear security must be anchored. 
Any guidelines or advice on nuclear security should be 
developed  and  negotiated  in  multilateral  frameworks; 
and  any  initiatives  and  measures  to  enhance  nuclear 
security  and  safety  must  not  be  used  as  a  pretext  for 
restricting the inalienable right of developing countries 
to develop nuclear energy for peaceful purposes.  
in  New  York  was  valuable 
complementing 
terrorists, 
in 
the 
in  various  sectors 

In  that  regard,  Egypt  reiterates  its  concern  about 
the continued imposition of unwarranted restrictions on 
exports to developing countries of material, equipment 
and technology that will be used for peaceful purposes. 
Egypt emphasizes especially the responsibility of those 
countries  that  are  advanced  in  the  nuclear  field  to 
respond positively to the needs of developing countries 
with  respect  to  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  power,  by 
allowing  them  to  participate  to  the  maximum  extent 
possible 
transfer  of  equipment,  materials, 
scientific  information  and  nuclear  technology  and 
enabling  them  to  derive  the  greatest  benefits  within 
their sustainable development strategies. 

In  the  field  of  technical  cooperation,  Egypt  will 
continue to exchange experiences with countries in the 
Arab  region  and  the  African  continent,  because  it 
believes in the importance of international cooperation 
activities in the field of peaceful use of nuclear energy. 
In  that  regard,  Egypt  stresses  that  priority  must  be 
given to the Agency’s activities in the field of technical 
cooperation, with the aim of enabling Egypt and other 
developing countries to benefit from the use of nuclear 
technologies 
including  health, 
agriculture, food and water resources and radioisotope 
technology.  Thus,  we  reaffirm  the  importance  of 
securing  and 
international 
cooperation  which  is  one  of  the  main  pillars  of  the 
work of the Agency, in accordance with its Statute.  

Egypt  also  renews  its  determination  to  intensify 
and expand cooperation with the IAEA with the aim of 
strengthening  our  national  capacities  in  the  field  of 
peaceful uses of nuclear technology and to benefit from 
the  full  support  of  the Agency  for our  national  efforts 
in efforts. 
Mr.  Onemola  (Nigeria):  I  thank  the  Director 

General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA) for his statement on the work of the Agency in 
the past year. 

to  convey  my  country’s 
appreciation  for  the  initiatives  of  Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon with regard to the effort to prevent future 
tragedies  at  nuclear  facilities  by  strengthening  the 
capacity  of  the  IAEA  to  promote  nuclear  safety  and 
security 
among 
international organizations, particularly in the areas of 
emergency response and information-sharing. We have 
no doubt that the high-level meeting on nuclear safety 
and security held on the margins of the general debate 
increasing  funding  for 
I  would  also 
cooperation 
enhance 
like 
and 
to 
4 

11-57701 


on  22  September  will  help  build  the  political  will 
needed to confront those challenges. 

We  commend  Director  General  Amano  and  his 
team  for  delivering  on  the  Agency’s  mandate  in  the 
areas  of  technical  cooperation  and  nuclear  safety, 
safeguards  and  security,  despite  numerous  constraints, 
including  in  financial  resources.  Nigeria  appreciates 
and  commends  their  tireless  efforts.  We  are  delighted 
that the IAEA continues to contribute immensely to the 
maintenance of international peace and security, while 
ensuring  that  humanity  derives  the  maximum  benefit 
from  nuclear  science  and  technology  in  a  safe  and 
secure environment. 

The  tragic  Fukushima  Daiichi  nuclear  power 
plant  accident  in  Japan  has  provoked  global  debate 
about the rationality of nuclear power. It has also led to 
a review of various measures that have been taken with 
regard to our common agenda of ensuring the safe and 
secure  use  of  nuclear  science  and  technology,  as  well 
as  of  ways  of  strengthening  the Agency  so  as  to  deal 
with  current  and  future  challenges  and  enhance  its 
capacity to further deliver the full benefits inherent in 
nuclear technology. 

In that regard, I want to express my appreciation 
for the prompt and insightful initiatives of the Director 
General,  including  his  decision  to  convene  the  June 
Ministerial  Conference  on  Nuclear  Safety  and  put 
together  the  resulting  Action  Plan,  which  has  already 
been  endorsed  at  the  Agency’s  fifty-fifth  General 
Conference  in  September,  as  well  as  at  the  high-level 
meeting held here the same month. We expect that the 
implementation of the Action Plan and other measures 
at  both  the  national  and  regional  levels,  informed  by 
the  lessons  of  the  Fukushima  accident,  will  go  a  long 
way towards addressing concerns about insecurity and 
restoring confidence in nuclear technology. 

In  spite  of  the  apprehensions  raised  by  the 
Fukushima  accident,  Nigeria  remains  convinced  that 
nuclear technology, safely and responsibly applied, can 
facilitate  the  attainment  of  our  energy  development 
goals  and  those  of  other  Millennium  Development 
Goals, and therefore has a vital role to play in serving 
humankind’s  immediate  needs.  The  introduction  of 
nuclear-powered  electricity  into  our  national  energy 
mix 
the  Nigerian  Government’s 
transformational  agenda. We  are  working  closely  with 
the  IAEA  towards  that  goal,  while  honouring  the 
attendant  obligations  to  ensure  safety  and  security. 
is  high  on 
A/66/PV.48
focus  at 
the 
technology 
in 
My  delegation  notes  with  satisfaction 
That is why for us in Nigeria, transparency in handling 
the information coming out of the Fukushima accident 
and  the  lessons  learned  from  it  are  important,  as  they 
will help us to avoid dangerous pitfalls. 

the 
Agency’s  phenomenal  achievements  in  the  application 
of  nuclear 
the  area  of  food  and 
agriculture, including its role in collaborating with the 
Food  and  Agriculture  Organization, 
the  World 
Organization for Animal Health, the African Union and 
other  strategic  partners  in  the  total  eradication  of  the 
deadly  cattle  disease  known  as 
rinderpest.  We 
encourage the Agency to continue in its efforts to assist 
its  member  States  in  applying  that  technology  to  the 
diagnosis  and  control  of  other  transboundary  animal 
diseases,  and  ultimately  to  the  promotion  of  food 
security.  The 
fifty-fifth  General 
Conference on the application of nuclear techniques to 
prospecting  for  and  managing  water  was  very  timely, 
because it addressed one of humankind’s current needs 
in both developed and developing countries. 

We  also  appreciate  the  priority  the  Agency  has 
given to cancer control in developing countries and its 
commitment  to  helping  Member  States  to  fight  that 
scourge. We urge the Agency to increase its support to 
African  countries  in  the  areas  of  cancer  therapy  and 
manpower  development,  through  its  Programme  of 
Action  for  Cancer  Therapy  (PACT).  We  welcome  the 
assistance  rendered  to  Member  States  through  the 
Programme’s imPACT reviews, which assess countries’ 
readiness  to  develop  long-term  radiation  medicine 
capacity-building  plans  as  part  of  a  national  cancer 
control programme. 

Nigeria’s  health  sector  has  benefited  from  the 
Agency’s  cooperation  in  capacity  and  infrastructure 
development  for  cancer  control  and  management, 
through 
and 
radiotherapy,  radio-oncology  and  nuclear  medicine 
technology.  Through  such  cooperation,  10  nuclear 
medicine  facilities  are  to  be  built,  between  2010  and 
2016,  and  equipped  in  tertiary  hospitals  across  the 
country, through national funding. It is our expectation 
that  our  national  programmes  will  continue  to  benefit 
from  the  Agency’s  Programme  of  Action  for  Cancer 
Therapy. 

On  technical  cooperation,  we  would  like  to  note 
that  the  Agency’s  Technical  Cooperation  Programme 
has continued to make an invaluable contribution to the 
nuclear  medicine 
advances 
in 
11-57701 

5 

the 
While 
to  strengthen 
IAEA  continues 
A/66/PV.48 

efforts  of  Member  States 
in  addressing  national 
development priorities and leveraging the comparative 
advantages  of  nuclear  techniques.  We  welcome  the 
increase  in  new  resources  reported  by  the  Director 
General in his report, as well as the contributions of the 
United States and other donors under the Peaceful Uses 
Initiative, launched in 2010. I would like to encourage 
other  Member  States  in  a  position  to  make  extra 
budgetary  contributions  to  join  that  United  States 
initiative. 

to  coordinate 
multilateral  efforts 
to  ensure  nuclear  safety  and 
security,  we  believe  that  the  primary  responsibility 
rests  with  Member  States.  In  recognition  of  that 
principle,  and  in  appreciation  of  the  fact  that  with  the 
benefits  of  nuclear  technology  come  responsibilities, 
the  Government  of  Nigeria  has  continued  to  build 
capacity,  as  well  as 
the  requisite 
institutional framework. 

In  September,  just  two  months  ago,  the  Nigeria 
Atomic Energy Commission, the national focal agency 
for atomic energy development, was reconstituted as an 
independent  and  self-accounting  agency.  Furthermore, 
the  Nigeria  Nuclear  Regulatory  Authority  is  being 
strengthened 
to  regulate  our  new  nuclear  power 
programme. In the area of nuclear waste management, 
which  is  key  to  the  success  of  any  national  nuclear 
power programme, Nigeria, with a wide range of IAEA 
technical  support  in  the  areas  of  project  design  and 
implementation, has begun developing facilities for the 
comprehensive management of low- and intermediate-
level  radioactive  wastes  at  the  Nuclear  Technology 
Centre at Sheda, in Abuja. 

I would like to reaffirm Nigeria’s commitment to 
the basic tenets of the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of Nuclear Weapons (NPT), and to assure the Assembly 
that  our  national  nuclear  power  programme  will 
continue to be purely for peaceful purposes, geared to 
the enhancement of the living standards of the peoples 
of  Nigeria,  and  will  remain  within  the  framework  of 
verifiable safeguards. 

The  NPT  remains  a  pillar  for  keeping  our  world 
safe  from  nuclear  holocaust.  The  role  of  the  IAEA  in 
promoting  a  safer  world  remains  pivotal.  Nigeria 
therefore  appreciates  the  initiative  of  the  Director 
General in holding a forum this month to reinvigorate 
the  creation  of  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the 
Middle  East. We  also  look  forward  to  the  2012  Seoul 
a 
providing 
technology,  as 
In  conclusion,  I  wish 
Nuclear  Security  Summit,  as  a  forum  vital  to  taking 
political  decisions  at  the  highest  level  on  securing 
nuclear materials away from unauthorized end users. 

to  reiterate  Nigeria’s 
support  for  and  abiding  faith  in  the  IAEA,  and  our 
confidence  in  its  leadership  in  putting  the  benefits  of 
the  atom  within  the  reach  of  all  in  a  safer  and  secure 
world. 
Mr. Al  Habib  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran): Today 

the  common  heritage  of 
nuclear 
in 
humankind,  has  yielded  peaceful  applications 
numerous  fields,  ranging  from  medicine,  food  and 
agriculture 
to 
cost-effective, 
environmentally 
friendly  and  climatically  benign 
source of energy, and has thus played a significant role 
in  the  advancement  of  human  society.  Taking  into 
account  that  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA), according to its Statute, should accelerate and 
enlarge  the  contribution  of  atomic  energy  to  peace, 
health  and  prosperity,  we  underline 
its  prime 
responsibility  to  assist  member  States,  including  by 
facilitating  technology  transfer  and  increasing  their 
scientific and technological capabilities. 

The  inalienable  right  to  the  peaceful  use  of 
nuclear technology, without discrimination, constitutes 
the  very 
the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT).  This  is 
set  out  in  its  article  IV,  in  which  States  parties 
undertake to facilitate the fullest possible exchange of 
equipment,  materials  and  scientific  and  technological 
information for the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. We 
emphasize  that  such  an  inalienable  right  shall  not  be 
restricted  under  any  circumstances,  including  through 
ulterior  outside  political  considerations.  At  the  same 
time  we  are  of  the  view  that  the  implementation  of 
related  provisions  of  the  NPT  and  the  statute  of  the 
IAEA requires a realistic and balanced approach. Such 
an  approach,  by  providing  incentives  for  membership 
and  compliance, can guarantee the longevity, integrity 
and credibility of the NPT. 

Unfortunately,  developed  States  parties  to  the 
NPT,  the  main  suppliers  of  nuclear  high  technology, 
have  given  rise  to  two  dangerous  impressions  by 
continuing  to  apply  a  discriminatory,  selective,  highly 
restrictive  and  politically  motivated  approach  in  their 
nuclear  cooperation  with  developing  States  parties. 
First,  being  a  party  to  the  NPT  and  the  IAEA 
safeguards  agreement  does  not  facilitate  nuclear 
the  Treaty  on 
foundation  of 
6 

11-57701 
is 
Recalling 
to  any  pressure 


cooperation  but  rather  impedes  it,  and  therefore  it  is 
not  a  privilege.  Secondly,  States  not  parties  to  the 
Treaty  are  more  richly  and  generously  rewarded 
through nuclear cooperation. 

It  is  a  source  of  grave  concern  that  those  who 
have chosen not to accede to the NPT not only are not 
subject 
to  do  so  but  are  also 
encouraged  and  rewarded  in  different  ways.  A  living 
example 
the  well-documented  assistance  and 
cooperation  provided  by  certain  Western  countries  — 
in  particular  the  United  States  and  the  two  nuclear-
weapon  States  members  of  the  European  Union,  the 
United  Kingdom  and  France  —  to  the  Israeli  regime, 
which, in addition to having an unsafeguarded nuclear 
programme,  possesses  one  of  the  world’s  largest 
stockpiles of nuclear weapons. That of course is a clear 
case  of  non-compliance  by  those  NPT  States  parties 
with  their  legal  obligations  under  the  Treaty.  Indeed, 
such  double 
standards  and  discriminatory  and 
paradoxical policies are contrary to the letter and spirit 
as  well  as  the  universality  of  the  NPT  and  only 
undermine the integrity of the Treaty. 

IAEA’s 
responsibilities  in  promoting  the  peaceful  uses  of 
nuclear technology and energy, as well as its role as the 
sole  competent  body  for  verification  activities  in 
accordance  with  its  Statute  and  the  NPT,  we  strongly 
emphasize  the  need  to  avoid  the  use  of  extralegal 
unilateral measures and attempts to use the Agency as 
an  instrument  in  support  of  shortsighted  political 
interests,  as  they  only  undermine  the  authority  and 
credibility  of  the  IAEA.  Unfortunately,  over  the  past 
decade  a  few  Western  countries  have  pursued  a 
selective  and  politically  motivated  approach  towards 
the  verification  activities  of  the  IAEA.  By  calling  it  a 
watchdog  organization,  they  attempt  to  imply  that  the 
IAEA  is  solely  a  verification  tool  and  has  no  other 
mandate. 

In  this  context,  and  recalling  that  the  IAEA 
statute  stipulates  that  the  Agency  should  conduct  its 
activities  in  a  way  that  furthers  the  establishment  of 
safeguarded  worldwide  disarmament,  I  would  like  to 
reiterate that one of the neglected tasks of the IAEA is 
engagement in the nuclear disarmament process. 

The  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  is  extremely  proud 
and highly honoured that, thanks to the activities of its 
courageous  young  nuclear  scientists  and  despite  all 
foreign-backed  plots  and  plans,  it  has  been  able  to 
importance  of 
the 
the 
A/66/PV.48
exercise its inalienable right to peaceful uses of nuclear 
energy. Iran is fully committed to its legal obligations, 
and  its  nuclear  activities  are,  and  have  always  been, 
exclusively for peaceful purposes. Despite all external 
political  pressure  on  the  IAEA,  it  has  repeatedly 
confirmed  the  non-diversion  of  nuclear  materials  and 
the peaceful nature of the Iranian nuclear programme. 

Finally, I would like to underline that from a legal 
point  of  view,  the  IAEA  should  verify  only  declared 
nuclear  material.  The  recent  report  by  the  IAEA 
Director  General  on  the  Implementation  of  the  NPT 
Safeguards  Agreement  in  Iran  states  that  the  Agency 
continues  to  verify  the  non-diversion  of  declared 
nuclear  material  at 
the  nuclear  facilities  and  at 
locations  outside  facilities  where  nuclear  material  is 
customarily used, declared by Iran under its safeguards 
agreement.  It  is  regrettable  that  the  IAEA  Director 
General,  in  his  statement  yesterday  (see  A/66/PV.46), 
made  reference  to  all  nuclear  materials  —  which  is 
legally incorrect. 
Mr.  Osman  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 

outset, I would like to extend our thanks to the Director 
General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA)  for  presenting  the  Agency’s  annual  report  to 
the General Assembly (see A/66/95). We commend the 
IAEA  programmes  and  plans  outlined  in  the  report, 
which  are  designed 
transfer  of 
for  peaceful  purposes,  maintain  an 
technology 
international system of nuclear security and bolster the 
safety of nuclear facilities.  The  report  emphasizes  the 
important  role  the  Agency  plays,  particularly  in  the 
field  of  cooperation  in  the  use  of  nuclear  technology 
for peaceful purposes and development.  

We  would  like  to  commend  the  work  of  the 
previous  Director  General,  Mr.  Mohamed  ElBaradei, 
and  we  wish  his  successor,  Mr. Yukiya Amano,  every 
success. 

The  Sudan  attaches  great  importance  to  the 
contents  of  the  report  on  the  applications  of  nuclear 
technology 
in  fostering  food  security,  controlling 
insects  and  effectively  managing  water  resources,  as 
well  as  in  modern  irrigation  systems  and  large-scale 
agricultural projects. From that perspective, improving 
the  cooperation  between  the Agency  and  UNICEF  on 
agricultural  and  educational  enterprises,  and  with  the 
World  Health  Organization,  becomes 
increasingly 
important.  
improve 
the 
to 
11-57701 

7 
A/66/PV.48 


Assisting  developing  countries  to  improve  their 
respective national technical systems complements the 
efforts  of  the  Agency  to  implement  its  plans  and 
technical  cooperation  programmes.  We  hope 
that 
cooperation  will  improve  within  the  framework  of  the 
Agency’s  health  programmes  in  order  to  revive  and 
support  continental  and  regional  projects  aimed  at 
fighting  insect  carriers  of  malaria  and  other  lethal 
diseases  affecting  Africans,  and  thus  to  enable  the 
continent  to  successfully  achieve  its  socio-economic 
development programmes, in particular the Millennium 
Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  the  internationally 
agreed economic agenda. 

The Sudanese delegation emphasizes the right of 
all  States,  including  my  country,  to  improve  research 
and  production  of  nuclear  energy 
for  peaceful 
purposes,  without  discrimination  and  in  accordance 
with international terms of reference and commitments.  

My delegation would like also to stress the need 
for  States  to  refrain  from  putting  pressure  on  the 
Agency  or  interfering  with  its  activities,  in  order  to 
preserve  the Agency’s  credibility  and  its  vital  role.  In 
that  context,  we  call  for  justice  and  equity  in  tackling 
some  of  the  outstanding  issues  involving  some  States, 
through  dialogue  and  negotiations,  with  a  view  to 
reaching appropriate solutions. 

Moreover,  the  delegation  of  the  Sudan  reiterates 
its  firm  position  in  supporting  the  aspirations  of  all 
geographical  regions  to  declare  themselves  free  from 
nuclear weapons, in accordance with the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT),  which 
constitutes  one  of  the  main  pillars  in  the  international 
peace  and  security  system.  On  that  basis,  we  feel 
concerned  by  the  fact  that  the  Middle  East  region  has 
for  many  decades,  remained  far  from  achieving  that 
goal, due to opposition by Israel — the only country in 
the  region  than  possesses  nuclear  weapons  —  and  its 
refusal  to  place  its  nuclear  programmes  under  the 
comprehensive IAEA safeguards regime, in addition to 
its  continuous  disregard  for  the  appeals  and  repeated 
initiations made by the international community in that 
matter.  Israel’s  adherence 
its 
Additional Protocol are vital factors for eliminating the 
tension  experienced  in  the  region  and  could  lead  to 
strengthened  regional  security  and  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security.  

My country is equally enthusiastic in its hope that 
the  Agency  will  continue  to  support  the  right  of 
the  Treaty  and 
to 

developing  countries  to  the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear 
energy,  along  with  the  Agency’s  monitoring  of  such 
activities.  It  is  our  conviction  that  the  production  of 
nuclear  energy  for  peaceful  purposes  would  lead  to  a 
considerable  surge  in  efforts  towards  development, 
given  the  low  cost  of  electricity  produced  through 
nuclear  energy  as  compared  to  other  energy  sources. 
The rising cost of alternative energy sources will force 
developing  countries  to  look  for  faster  and  more 
practicable  means  to  solve  their  problems  of  energy 
shortage.  

The  Sudan  is  persuaded  that  greater  cooperation 
and  support  by  developed  countries  for  developing 
countries  in  the  field  of  alternative  energy  sources 
would  lessen  the  risk  of  resort  to  nuclear  energy.  We 
think  that  it  is  logical  for  the  IAEA  to  encourage 
developed  countries 
to  work  side  by  side  with 
developing countries on that matter.  

In  that  connection,  my  delegation  welcomes  the 
efforts of the Agency and of many developed countries 
to foster cooperation with the African States in the use 
of nuclear energy in the medical and health sectors, as 
well  as  on  alternative  energy  projects  in  an  effective 
manner conducive to achieving the MDGs. 
Mr.  Cassidy  (Indonesia):  Allow  me  first  to 

warmly  welcome  our  fellow  country  member  of  the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN), the 
Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic,  as  a  new  member 
of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA). 
This  now  increases  the  IAEA  members  from ASEAN 
countries  to  nine.  Indonesia  stands  ready  to  cooperate 
closely  and  to  share  its  experience  with  the  Lao 
People’s Democratic Republic in many areas of nuclear 
cooperation. 
On  this  occasion,  we  would  like  to  express  our 

support to the Director General for the way in which he 
has been carrying out his responsibilities at the IAEA, 
which  has  led  to  more  weight  being  given  to  the 
Agency’s technical role. We were delighted by his visit 
to  Jakarta  from  6  to  9  October.  Apart  from  holding 
important  meetings  with  major  national  stakeholders 
and visiting our nuclear facilities, in our capacity as the 
Chair  of  ASEAN,  we  also  facilitated  his  visit  to  the 
ASEAN 
its 
representatives and those of the Council of Permanent 
Representatives.  It  is  our  profound  hope  that  such 
visits will strengthen IAEA cooperation, not only with 
Indonesia but also with ASEAN. 
secretariat,  where  he  met  with 
11-57701 
8 

and 
international 
fact-finding  mission 
radiological  protection 



We  express  our  sympathy  to  the  people  and 
Government  of  Japan  over  the  unfortunate  events  that 
took  place  in  March  involving  the  Fukushima  Daiichi 
nuclear  power  plant.  We  also  express  our  admiration 
and  respect  for  the  tremendous  courage  and  resilience 
shown  by  the  Japanese  emergency  team  in  getting  the 
facility  back  under  control.  As  an  expression  of 
Indonesian solidarity with the people and Government 
of  Japan,  the  Indonesian  Nuclear  Regulatory  Agency, 
apart from sending rescue workers, medical assistance 
and  supplies  in  the  early  days  of  the  accident,  offered 
to  dispatch  its  nuclear  emergency  response  team  to 
Fukushima.  

As the Chair of ASEAN, Indonesia also initiated 
a special meeting of the foreign ministers of Japan and 
ASEAN  in  April  to  promote  further  cooperation  in 
disaster  management.  In  May,  one  of  our  experts  on 
nuclear 
emergency 
response  was  honoured  by  the  opportunity  to  join  an 
IAEA-led 
to 
Fukushima. 

In order to restore public confidence in the safety 
and  sustainability  of  nuclear  power,  including  in 
Indonesia, it is of critical importance to address nuclear 
safety and place it high on the global agenda. 

Globally,  public  expectations  for  bold  action  are 
high after the last nuclear accident. We should seize the 
present  momentum 
in  shaping  a  global 
rethinking on nuclear safety. In that regard, my country 
was  pleased  to  see  that,  on  22  September,  the  IAEA 
General  Conference  unanimously  endorsed  the Action 
Plan on Nuclear Safety, which Ministers had requested 
in their declaration at the IAEA Ministerial Conference 
on Nuclear Safety in June. Indonesia looks forward to 
finding  ways  and  means  to  contribute  actively  to  the 
implementation of the Action Plan. 
We  remain  of  the  view  that  IAEA  technical 

cooperation  plays  an 
the 
Agency’s main vehicle for delivering on its mandate to 
promote  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  technology, 
especially in the developing regions of the world. Since 
joining  the  IAEA,  in  1957,  Indonesia  has  enjoyed  a 
great deal of cooperation with the IAEA in many areas 
of nuclear applications not involving power generation, 
such  as  in  nuclear  techniques  for  water  resources, 
research  reactor  construction  and  operation,  uranium 
extraction,  food  irradiation,  radioisotope  production 
and  mutation-assisted  plant  breeding.  The  extensive 
indispensable 
role  as 
to  help 
representatives 
this  year 
11-57701 

9 
A/66/PV.48
for 
the  drinking  water 
techniques  for  water 
industry,  as  well  as 
tracers  have  been  utilized 
techniques 
to  growing  recognition  of 
socio-economic 
use  of  nuclear 
development 
the 
led 
importance  of  nuclear  technology  for  development  in 
Indonesia.  

Therefore,  we  strongly  feel  that  now  is  the  time 
for  Indonesia  to  share  its  long-developed  knowledge 
and experience with other developing countries. In this 
regard, we are ready to serve as a technical cooperation 
destination  country  to  further  support  the  IAEA  in 
promoting its technical cooperation programmes. 
As  a  country  that  has  benefited  from  a  wide 

application of nuclear techniques for water, we support 
the  decision  of  the  Director  General  of  the  IAEA  to 
prioritize  nuclear 
this  year. 
Isotope  tracer  technology  has  been  widely  used  by 
Indonesian  universities,  the  national  geology  agency 
and 
in 
geothermal  exploration.  For  geothermal  exploitation, 
isotope 
to  determine 
recharge  areas  and  the  origin  of  geothermal  fluids. 
Regarding  water  management,  isotope  technology  has 
also  been  widely  applied  to  resolve  recharge  area  and 
groundwater  dating.  In  Indonesia,  isotope  hydrology 
has contributed to the mitigation of water shortages in 
areas that have a problem with water sanitation. 
The role of the Regional Cooperative Agreement 

(RCA) 
the  use  of  nuclear 
technology  for  socio-economic  development  in  the 
Asia-Pacific  cannot  be  overlooked.  In  the  almost 
40 years  of  the  RCA’s  existence,  the  participating 
countries  and  the  Agency  have  accumulated  valuable 
experience in cooperation and coordination of nuclear-
related development activities in the region. Therefore, 
we are determined to continue our active participation 
in this regional process. As the current Chairman of the 
RCA, in April 2011 Indonesia hosted the 33rd Meeting 
of National RCA Representatives in Bali, with around 
60 
countries 
attending. 

in 
managing  radioactive  waste  and  spent  fuel.  We 
submitted  our  instrument  of  ratification  of  the  Joint 
Convention  on  the  Safety  of  Spent  Fuel  Management 
and  on  the  Safety  of  Radioactive  Waste  Management 
on 1 April. 

international 
cooperation in nuclear security and the centrality of the 
IAEA’s role in this area. Therefore, Indonesia supports 
Indonesia  has  made  progress 
Indonesia  continues 
from  participating 
in 
the  promotion  of 
to  support 

information  with  other 
Together  with  representatives  of 
A/66/PV.48 

the  Agency’s  continued  fostering  of  coordination  and 
exchange  of 
relevant 
organizations and nuclear security-related initiatives in 
order 
to  prevent  duplication  between  Agency 
programmes  and  those  under  consideration  by  other 
entities,  thus  ensuring  the  continued  effectiveness  of 
the  Agency’s  nuclear  security  programme.  Indonesia 
also supports those who suggest that the Agency should 
establish  a  mechanism  that  would  allow  all  member 
States  to  be  involved  in  an  inclusive  manner  in  the 
development of Nuclear Security Series documents. 

the  IAEA, 
Indonesia co-hosted the High-level Regional Workshop 
on  the  International  Legal  Framework  for  Nuclear 
Security, from 20 to 22 July. The Workshop, which was 
attended  by 
representatives  of  ASEAN  member 
countries,  has  raised  awareness  of  the  importance  of 
strong  and  effective  measures  to  enhance  nuclear 
security.  

From the discussion, Indonesia notes the value of 
model  legislation  and  implementation  kits  for  nuclear 
security  that  could  be  used  to  transpose  certain 
provisions 
Indonesia 
emphasizes  the  importance  of  updating  the  IAEA’s 
2010  Handbook  on  Nuclear  Law: 
Implementing 
Legislation,  so  that  in  the  future  it  could  serve  as 
model legislation to speed up national implementation. 

Our  commitment  to  safeguards  implementation 
remains strong. In collaboration with other countries in 
the Asia-Pacific  region,  Indonesia  is  part  of  efforts  to 
enhance  safeguards  collaboration  in  the  region  by 
launching  the  Asia-Pacific  Safeguards  Network.  The 
Network  serves  as  a  vehicle  to  define  how  we 
implement  the  safeguards,  assuring  the  use  of  nuclear 
energy  solely  for  peaceful  uses  in  the  economically 
vibrant Asia-Pacific region. 

On the issue of safeguards in the Middle East, we 
continue  to  support  the  IAEA  taking  a  comprehensive 
and balanced  approach in  addressing non-proliferation 
issues in the region. Likewise, Indonesia has supported 
the  conclusions  and  recommendations  for  follow-on 
actions  of  the  2010  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties 
to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons,  including  with  regard  to  the  convening  of  a 
conference  in  2012  on  the  establishment  of  a  Middle 
East  zone  free  of  nuclear  weapons  and  all  other 
weapons  of  mass  destruction,  on 
the  basis  of 
arrangements  freely  arrived  at  by  the  States  of  the 
legislation. 
national 
into 
the  main 
issues  of 
the  Agency. 
region, and with the full support and engagement of the 
nuclear-weapon States.  
In pursuit of paving a way for the realization of a 

in 
the  Middle  East, 
nuclear-weapon-free  zone 
Indonesia 
the  Director  General’s 
fully  supports 
initiative  to  convene  a  Middle  East  nuclear-weapon-
free zone forum in Vienna later this month, and stands 
ready to participate constructively in the process, both 
in its national capacity and its capacity as Chairman of 
the  Commission  for  the  South-East  Asian  Nuclear-
Weapon-Free Zone. 
Mr.  Aquino  (Peru)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 

country  has  joined  in  sponsoring  draft  resolution 
A/66/L.6  on  the  report  of  the  International  Atomic 
Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  as  an  expression  of  our  firm 
support of the Agency’s work.  

Peru,  a  founding  member  of  the  IAEA,  has  just 
concluded  its  term  on  the  Board  of  Governors  for  the 
period  2009  to  2011,  where  it  actively  participated  in 
addressing 
In 
recognition  of  its  committed  participation,  the  Group 
of  Latin American  and  Caribbean  States  has  endorsed 
Peru’s candidature to return to the Board of Governors 
for the 2013 to 2015 term. 

The  nuclear  accident  in  the  Fukushima  Daiichi 
plant  has  marked  an  important  point  in  the  Agency’s 
work.  While  Peru 
the  primary 
responsibility  for  nuclear  security  falls  on  States,  we 
are  convinced  that  the  IAEA  plays  a  very  important 
role  in  promoting  international  cooperation  and  in  the 
coordination  of  global  efforts  to  strengthen  the  global 
nuclear  security  regime.  In  that  regard,  we  believe, 
with  an  eye  to  the  Agency’s  mandate,  technical 
specialization  and  broad  membership,  that  it  is  the 
appropriate forum in which to address all issues related 
to nuclear security. 

Although  we  would  have  preferred  a  more 
ambitious  document,  my  delegation  commends  the 
approval  of  the  post-Fukushima  action  plan,  which 
contains  a  series  of  specific  measures  to  strengthen 
nuclear security. It is a realistic document and has the 
merit of including the concerns of all Agency member 
States.  

The  progress  made  in  the  sphere  of  nuclear 
security should be seen in the overall framework of the 
initiative  undertaken  by  the  Director  General  of  the 
IAEA  in  convening  a  ministerial-level  conference  in 
recognizes 
that 
10 

11-57701 
In 
Institute 
applauding 
community. 
the  National 


June  2011  and  in  the  high-level  meeting  on  nuclear 
safety and security convened by the Secretary-General 
here  at  United  Nations  Headquarters  in  September,  as 
well  as  other  significant  initiatives  undertaken  by  the 
international 
and 
encouraging  such  initiatives,  my  delegation  wishes  to 
emphasize  that  it  is  necessary  that  throughout  this 
process  of  strengthening  the  nuclear  security  regime, 
the central function of the Agency in coordinating such 
efforts must be preserved. 

At  the  national  level,  my  delegation  wishes  to 
highlight  the  important  work  undertaken  jointly  with 
the Agency. If I may, I would like to highlight some of 
the  technical  cooperation  activities  that  are  geared  to 
supporting 
for  Neoplastic 
Diseases  in  fighting  cancer,  the  National  Agrarian 
University La Molina in its projects to improve grains 
and  native  grain  varieties,  and  the  Peruvian  Nuclear 
Energy Institute in its research activities, as well as the 
country’s  other  significant  research  institutes,  such  as 
the  Peruvian  University  Cayetano  in  its  projects  to 
improve South American cameloids. 

By reiterating Peru’s support for the management 
of  the  IAEA  Director  General,  Ambassador  Yukiya 
Amano  —  specifically  the  work  related  to  nuclear 
applications 
and  water 
treatment —  we  wish  to  highlight  the  fact  that  the 
Director General visited Peru at the end of June 2011. 
He was able to observe directly the progress in various 
projects that the Agency has undertaken in Peru, all of 
which  play  an  important  role  in  developing  the  fight 
against  poverty,  and  in  agriculture,  ground  water  and 
areas  such  as  human  health,  industry,  nuclear  security 
and other areas. 

Peru  believes  that  in  order  to  give  adequate 
attention  to  the  needs  of  developing  countries,  the 
Agency  should  focus  its  priorities  on  the  following 
four areas. First is the fight against cancer. Taking into 
account  that  two  thirds  of  diagnosed  cases  of  cancer 
occur  in  developing  countries,  Peru  believes  that  it  is 
urgent  to  create  national  capacities,  both  in  training 
professionals and in acquiring equipment for diagnosis 
and 
food 
availability through nuclear applications in agriculture. 
Third  is  support  for  member  States  that  decide  to 
implement nuclear power plans by supplying them with 
the  necessary 
legislative 
assistance.  Fourth  is  improving  the  study  of  water 
through  isotopic  techniques  for  water  purification  and 
technical,  economic  and 
treatment.  Second 
improvement  of 
in  health, 
agriculture 
is 
A/66/PV.48
the 
the 
those 
50 years 
principal 
techniques 
as 
forum 
in  agriculture  and 
international  commitments 
the 
for  scientific  and 
using 
management of groundwater resources. 

In  the  regional  arena,  since  1984  Peru  has  been 
an  active  participant  in  the  Regional  Agreement  of 
Technical  Cooperation  for  the  Promotion  of  Nuclear 
Science  and  Technology  in  Latin  America  and  the 
Caribbean, with special emphasis on projects linked to 
training human resources and developing infrastructure 
in  areas  related  to  health,  agriculture,  energy  and 
hydrology.  I  should  also  emphasize  that  in  2010  Peru 
joined  the  Ibero  American  Forum  of  Nuclear  and 
Radiation  Safety  and  Security  Regulatory  Agencies, 
which works actively to standardize national regulatory 
legislation. 

In  this  Hall,  we  would  like  to  reiterate  our 
support for and recognition of the Agency and its more 
international 
than 
governmental 
technical 
cooperation  in  the  use  of  nuclear  technology  for 
peaceful  purposes  and  as  the  guarantor  of  compliance 
with 
to  use  nuclear 
installations  and  materials  for  exclusively  peaceful 
purposes. 
Mr.  Langeland  (Norway):  Norway  is  pleased  to 

sponsor  of  the  draft  resolution  on  the  report  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(IAEA) 
(A/66/L.6). My Government attaches great importance 
to  the  IAEA.  Besides  being  a  key  guardian  of  our 
collective  non-proliferation  regime,  it  is  an  important 
partner in promoting social and economic development 
while  ensuring  the  safety  and  security  of  peaceful 
nuclear  programmes.  Through  its  extensive  Technical 
Cooperation  Programme, 
the  Agency  plays  an 
important role in contributing to the achievement of the 
Millennium Development Goals. 
Nuclear  non-proliferation  and  disarmament  are 

closely 
the  goal  of 
eliminating  nuclear  weapons,  as  set  out  in  the  Treaty 
on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT), 
unless  there  is  confidence  in  the  integrity  of  the 
non-proliferation  regime.  Thus  it  is  vital  that  we 
provide  the  Agency  with  the  necessary  legal  tools  to 
implement its non-proliferation mandate.  

IAEA 
that 
comprehensive  safeguards  agreements  and  additional 
protocols  constitute  the  verification  standard.  Norway 
also remains convinced that the IAEA has an important 
role to play in verifying nuclear disarmament. Norway 
linked.  We  cannot  achieve 
reiterates 
therefore 
Norway 
11-57701 

11 

of 
their 
the 
and 
to 
reinforce 
nature 
peaceful 
to  urge 
importance  of 
A/66/PV.48 

continues 
countries  with  outstanding 
proliferation issues to cooperate fully with the Agency 
in  resolving  these  matters  and  in  demonstrating  the 
exclusively 
nuclear 
programmes. 

Achieving  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the 
Middle East is an important goal both from a regional 
point  of  view 
the  global 
non-proliferation  regime.  Norway  will  chair  the  IAEA 
forum  on  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the  Middle 
East to be held this month in Vienna and believes that 
it will represent a significant contribution on the part of 
the IAEA towards that goal. 

The 2010 Review Conference of the Parties to the 
Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons 
also  underlined 
international 
cooperation with regard to the peaceful use of nuclear 
energy. The tragic event in Fukushima earlier this year, 
as well as other safety incidents, has demonstrated the 
critical importance of safety to nuclear energy. The role 
of the IAEA will thus be even more crucial in the years 
to come.  
We  look  forward  to  working  closely  with  the 

Agency  in  promoting  nuclear  security.  Norway  has 
provided substantial voluntary contributions to support 
the  IAEA’s  work  to  strengthen  nuclear  safety  and 
security 
the 
establishment  of  a  nuclear  fuel  bank.  It  is  imperative 
that  we,  the  member  States,  provide  adequate  and 
predictable funding so that the Agency can carry out its 
important  mandate.  It  is  equally  important  that  the 
international  community  demonstrate  full  political 
support  for  the  IAEA.  My  delegation  expects  that 
today’s draft resolution will be adopted by consensus. 
Mrs. Cizare (Ethiopia): I would first like to take 

note  with  satisfaction  of  the  annual  report  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA)  (see 
A/66/95),  which  describes  the  Agency’s  significant 
achievements  during  2010.  My  appreciation  also  goes 
to Ambassador Yukiya Amano, Director General of the 
IAEA, 
informative 
statement  on  the  main  developments  in  the  Agency’s 
activities  during  that  period.  My  delegation  is  a 
sponsor of draft resolution A/66/L.6, on the report. 

We are pleased to recognize the progress made by 
the  IAEA  over  the  past  year  in  further  enhancing  its 
contribution to global efforts to use atomic energy for 
peaceful  purposes.  We  remain  convinced  that  within 
for  his  comprehensive  and 
in  developing 
countries 
and 
to 
in 
and 
testing 
the  useful 
international  cooperation 
the  framework  of  its  three  pillars,  the  Agency  will 
continue  to  strengthen  its  technical  support  role  to 
expand 
the  peaceful 
application  of  nuclear  energy.  We  believe  that  the 
Agency’s  sustained  technical  assistance  to  developing 
nations  —  particularly  in  the  areas  of  agriculture, 
human  health,  water  resource  management,  energy 
planning,  non-destructive 
radiation 
protection  —  should  be  highlighted  and  its  technical 
assistance programmes strengthened. In this regard we 
welcome  the  budgetary  increase  for  the  Technical 
Cooperation Fund. 
Ethiopia attaches great importance to the work of 

the 
IAEA  and  appreciates 
technical 
cooperation  that  the  Agency  is  providing  to  member 
States,  particularly  developing  nations.  The  Agency’s 
growing  role  in  helping  developing  countries  achieve 
their  socio-economic  development  goals  is  indeed 
encouraging,  especially  in  its  efforts  to  combat  and 
eradicate  diseases  in  cattle,  which  have  resulted  in 
tangible  progress  in  the  agriculture  and  livestock 
sectors. Moreover, many of the Agency’s projects have 
helped  to  ensure  access  to  clean  water  and  promote 
environmental  sustainability.  In  this  context,  and  in 
order  to  reach  the  goals  set  by  the  Millennium 
Declaration  (resolution  55/2)  by  2015,  the  Agency’s 
technical assistance programme should be strengthened 
with  a  view  to  expanding  the  scope  of  its  activities 
aimed  at 
supporting  developing  countries,  and 
particularly least developed ones. 

Ethiopia is a beneficiary of the IAEA’s Technical 
Cooperation  Programme.  Among  the  various  areas 
where we have technical cooperation with the Agency 
is  an  ongoing  project  to  eradicate  the  tsetse  fly  from 
the Southern Rift Valley region of Ethiopia through an 
integrated  pest  management  approach.  I  am  very 
pleased to report that the project has started to benefit 
several  communities  by  helping  them  to  regain  their 
farmland  and  resume  their  normal  livestock  activities. 
Strengthening  such  concrete  gains  requires  enhanced 
technical  support  from  the  Agency  and  an  integrated 
development  approach  that  takes  into  account  proper 
land-use planning and management. 
It  is  also  worth  mentioning  that  the  technical 

cooperation  between  Ethiopia  and  the  Agency  in  the 
area  of  human  health  has  resulted  in  establishing  a 
modest  national  infrastructure  for  the  application  of 
nuclear  medicine  and  radiotherapy. A  project  is  being 
designed  for  2012-2017  to  consolidate  the  existing 
12 

11-57701 
in 
framework 
support  of 
state  university  hospitals 


radiotherapy  and  nuclear  medicine  facilities  in  five 
regional 
for  efficient 
diagnosis  and  curative  and  palliative  treatment  for 
cancer  patients.  I  would  therefore  like  to  request  that 
the  Agency  further  strengthen  its  cooperation  in  this 
area,  in  order  to  combat  cancer  through  sustainable 
therapy  programmes.  We  are  also  encouraged  by  our 
technical  cooperation  with  the  IAEA  in  applying 
isotope  techniques  in  the  management  of  our  water 
resources and by our progress to date in implementing 
that cooperation programme. 

I  wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  express  our 
gratitude  for  the  technical  support  that  we  receive 
through the Agency and its member States and from the 
African  Development  Bank,  the  Food  and Agriculture 
Organization  and  other  international  organizations  in 
these  areas,  in  particular  for  the  eradication  of  the 
tsetse  fly  and  trypanosomiasis  from  Ethiopia.  We 
welcome  the  steps  the Agency  has  taken  to  formalize 
the  cooperation 
the 
Pan-African  Tsetse  and  Trypanosomiasis  Eradication 
Campaign,  as  that  framework  is  critical  to  eradicating 
poverty and to increasing agricultural productivity. We 
call on the Agency to continue to accord high priority 
to the implementation of the cooperation framework.  

We  consider  peaceful  nuclear  applications  a 
critical  input  to  our  continued  efforts  to  carry  out 
national 
and 
programmes.  Indeed,  we  very  much  appreciate  the 
Agency’s  technical  support  in  the  development  and 
completion of our Country Programme Framework for 
the  period  2012-2017.  Obviously,  the  Framework  is  a 
significant  step  in  efforts  to  develop  our  national 
nuclear  science  and  technology  infrastructure,  and  we 
request  the  Agency  to  extend  its  cooperation  for  the 
full implementation of the Framework.  

Ethiopia supports the Agency’s efforts to promote 
and ensure global nuclear safety. Ethiopia is committed 
to  further  strengthening  the  national  radiation  and 
nuclear  safety  and  security 
to 
ensuring  the  safe  operation  of  equipment  that  uses 
radiation  sources.  The  Ethiopian  Radiation  Protection 
Authority  will  continue 
full 
implementation  of  regulatory  control  systems  in  all 
thematic  safety  areas.  In  that  regard,  my  delegation 
would  like  to  commend  the  activities  of  the  IAEA  in 
assisting member States, including my own country, in 
the  peaceful  use  of  nuclear  energy 
the 
development  of  effective  and  efficient  programmes  to 
infrastructure  and 
development 
strategies, 
to  work 
towards 
policies 
through 
A/66/PV.48
resources 
scientific, 
regulatory 
technological  and 
improve 
capabilities. 
We firmly believe it is necessary to ensure, on a 

the  provision  of  sufficient  and 
systematic  basis, 
the  Agency’s 
technical 
predictable 
to 
programmes  and,  more 
importantly,  a  balanced 
distribution of resources to its safeguards and technical 
cooperation activities in the area of nuclear safety. That 
is  important,  especially  in  view  of  the  fact  that  the 
Agency’s role in transferring peaceful technology is so 
necessary to developing countries for the achievement 
of their socio-economic goals. 

In conclusion, allow me to extend once again our 
support to the IAEA for its efforts in the promotion of 
international cooperation in the peaceful use of nuclear 
energy and the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons in 
all  its  aspects.  We  hope  the  IAEA  will  continue  to 
promote its noble objectives into the next year.  
Mr.  El-Mesallati  (Libya)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At 

the outset, I would like to express our appreciation and 
gratitude to Mr. Yukiya Amano, Director General of the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA),  for 
presenting 
the  General 
Assembly (see A/66/95).  
Having  examined  the  report  of  the  Agency 

submitted 
the  Assembly,  our 
country’s delegation would like to express its heartfelt 
appreciation 
in 
particular  the  Department  of  Technical  Cooperation, 
for its rapid response, support and efforts to strengthen 
cooperation  in  the  fields  of  health,  water  resources 
management  and  education,  which  are  our  national 
priorities. 

Our country’s delegation would like to emphasize 
the  rights  of  developing  countries  to  benefit  from  the 
peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  energy,  to  have  access  to 
nuclear  material  and  equipment  and  to  exchange  and 
transfer  scientific  and  technical  information  in  that 
regard.  

Our  country  clearly  declares  its  position  on  the 
need to take practical steps to support the Agency, with 
a  view 
to 
implementing, in a balanced manner, its three pillars — 
non-proliferation, 
and 
verification  —  and  the  comprehensive  safeguards 
regime and additional protocols.  
the  secretariat  of 
this  session  of 
credibility  and 
to  preserving 
the  Agency’s 
cooperation 
the  IAEA, 
report 
to 
to 
to 
its 
technical 
11-57701 

13 
to 
in 

the 
foster 
treaties, 
agreements 
international 
the  Agency 
A/66/PV.48 

We  call  on  the  entire  international  community  to 
accede  to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  and  to  the  comprehensive 
safeguards regime so as to demonstrate its commitment 
to 
and 
conventions that it has signed. 

Libya  expresses  its  support  for  the  Director 
General  of  the  Agency,  in  particular  his  statement 
before  the  2010  Review  Conference  of  the  Parties  to 
the  NPT. We  believe  that  nuclear  disarmament  should 
be of the utmost importance to the Agency and that it 
plays  a  significant  role 
in  verification  activities. 
Nuclear  disarmament  has  a  positive  impact  and  will 
help strengthen all efforts towards non-proliferation.  

In  that  connection,  our  country  commends  the 
activities  of 
international 
cooperation  in  the  fields  of  nuclear  and  radiological 
safety. We place great emphasis on that issue, and thus 
Libya has acceded to the Convention on Nuclear Safety 
and the Convention on Early Notification of a Nuclear 
Accident. We have participated in  all activities in that 
regard.  
We  have  set  up  an  office  to  oversee  nuclear  and 

radiological  safety  and  security.  It  is  an  independent 
that,  under  enforced  national 
monitoring  agency 
legislation,  will 
full 
independence, 
the  Agency’s 
standards.  We  also  commend  the  Agency’s  role  in 
combating any threat by terrorist groups to use nuclear 
weapons.  
Furthermore,  the  National  Transitional  Council 

expresses our interest in fostering cooperation with all 
friendly States and with the Agency in order to secure 
all radioactive material in Libya, which is now in safe 
areas and can be accessed only by permission from the 
authorities.  A  delegation  from  the  Agency  will  visit 
Libya shortly to verify that such material is protected. 

Our  country  places  the  highest  emphasis  on 
international  peace  and  security,  in  particular  in  the 
Middle  East  region.  The  Middle  East  has  become  a 
hotbed  of  tension  because  Israel  possesses  nuclear 
arms,  which  has  led  other  countries  to  seek  to  obtain 
such weapons.  

It  has  been  more  than  15  years  since  the  1995 
NPT  Review  and  Extension  Conference  adopted  a 
resolution to establish in the Middle East a zone free of 
nuclear  and  all  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction. 
in  compliance  with 
its  mandate 
execute 
the 
that 
namely, 
including 
resolution, 
above-mentioned 
achievement  of 
Such  a  zone  was  also  underscored  in  the  outcome 
document  of  the  2010  NPT  Review  Conference.  That 
Conference  highlighted 
the  resolution  would 
continue  to  be  in  effect  until  all  its  purposes  and 
objectives, 
the 
universality of the Treaty, had been achieved.  

The  conference  to  be  held  in  2012  will  be 
attended  by  all  countries  of  the  Middle  East  with  a 
view  to  underscoring  the  importance  of  implementing 
the 
the 
establishment  of  a  Middle  East  zone  free  of  nuclear 
and  all  other  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  The 
conference  will  be  held  in  Finland.  Our  country 
expresses its full support for that conference and for its 
goals of establishing a nuclear-weapon-free zone in the 
Middle East and peace and security in the region.  

My  country’s  delegation  calls  on  all  nuclear-
weapon  countries  to  adopt  programmes  to  eliminate 
their  nuclear  arsenals  and  to  put  an  end  to  all 
programmes  for  the  development  of  such  weapons, 
pursuant  to  the  legal  commitments  undertaken  in 
article VI of the NPT and highlighted by the 2010 NPT 
Review Conference, which stated that the NPT should 
represent  a  firm  commitment  to  destroy  all  nuclear 
arsenals  and  that  otherwise  the  Treaty  would  be 
meaningless.  

As long as one nuclear weapon exists, the world 
faces  an  enormous  danger  and  a  commensurate 
responsibility  on  the  part  of  nuclear-weapon  States. 
Otherwise, 
be 
meaningless. 
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 

Arabic):  Despite  the  unanimous  view  that  the  only 
actual nuclear danger in the Middle East lies in Israel’s 
possession  of  nuclear  weapons  and  their  means  of 
delivery  to  distant  regions,  some  of  those  who  turn  a 
blind eye to this clear-cut situation are pleased to open 
illusory  fronts  with  suspect  motives.  Needless  to  say, 
such  dishonest  and  non-objective  actions  evidently 
expose  the  falsity  of  their  assertions  that  they  care 
about  the  establishment  of  a  zone  free  of  nuclear 
weapons and other weapons of mass destruction in the 
region of the Middle East.  

For  decades,  they  themselves  were  responsible 
for  supplying  Israel  with  the  nuclear  technology  and 
materials  that  enabled  it  to  acquire  nuclear  weapons 
and  their  means  of  delivery,  including  sophisticated 
submarines.  They  tried  their  best  to  divert  attention 
nuclear-weapon-free 
zones  will 
14 

11-57701 
the 
It 
and 
statements 
attitudes  of 


from  Israel’s  nuclear  weapons  during  the  Review 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons,  held  in  New 
York last year. 
The  prevailing  hypocrisy  on  nuclear  issues  that 

marks 
some 
representatives  of  Western  States  hinders  progress  in 
nuclear  non-proliferation  efforts. 
irresponsibly 
encourages nuclear proliferation by a party that is still 
outside the NPT and that refuses to subject its nuclear 
installations  to  the  international  monitoring  of  the 
International  Atomic  Energy  Agency  (IAEA).  In  that 
connection,  I  would  recall  that  the  conduct  of  those 
Western States violates articles I and II of the NPT. The 
Agency  must  therefore  hold  those  Western  States 
accountable and responsible for those violations.  

We  regret  that  we  are  hearing  words  that  only 
heighten  our  concerns,  such  as  the  crass  insinuation 
made  against  my  country  by  the  observer  of  the 
European  Union  (EU)  in  his  statement  yesterday  (see 
A/66/PV.46). We  would  like  to  remind  him  that  many 
EU  member  States  do  not  at  all  comply  with  their 
commitments  under  the  NPT.  I  refer  to  that  state  of 
non-compliance  for  two  main  reasons. The  first  is  the 
presence  of  nuclear  weapons 
territory  of 
non-nuclear  European  States.  The  second  is  the  fact 
that those Western States continue to supply Israel with 
nuclear  technology  and  materials  and  their  means  of 
delivery.  

In  his  statement  yesterday,  the  Director  General 
of the IAEA  said that the Agency had finally  come to 
the conclusion that it was very likely that the building 
destroyed  at  the  Dair  Alzour  site  in  2007  housed  a 
nuclear  reactor  that  should  have  been  declared  to  the 
Agency.  He  went  on  to  say  that  in  June  the  IAEA 
Board  of  Governors 
in 
non-compliance  with  its  safeguards  obligations,  and 
reported  that  non-compliance  to  the  Security  Council 
and  the  General  Assembly.  In  that  connection,  allow 
me to make the following observations.  

First, the IAEA Director General knows full well 
that Syria made the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of 
Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  one  of  its  main  national 
priorities. Syria therefore hastened to accede very early 
to  the  NPT,  doing  so  in  1968.  By  the  same  token,  it 
signed a comprehensive safeguards agreement with the 
Agency in 1992.  
found  Syria 
to  be 
the 
in 
A/66/PV.48
show 
These 
examples 
the  Assembly  well  knows,  Israel  refused 

Moreover, in 2003, when Syria was a member of 
the Security Council, it presented a draft resolution on 
behalf of the Arab Group that is still in blue ink in the 
Security Council. That draft resolution was designed to 
create  a  zone  free  of  nuclear  weapons  and  all  other 
weapons of mass destruction in the Middle East.  

that  our  national 
commitment is credible  and should not be questioned. 
When  it  was  presented  in  2003,  the  draft  resolution, 
which  is  in  accordance  with  the  provisions  and 
objectives of the IAEA, clashed with the opposition of 
an  influential  permanent,  nuclear-weapon  State  in  the 
Security Council that threatened to use its veto if Syria 
insisted on putting the draft resolution to a vote.   

Second,  the  Security  Council  and  the  IAEA  did 
not  condemn  Israel’s  flagrant  aggression  against  my 
country’s  sovereignty  in  2007,  probably  because  they 
are  inured  to  Israel’s  violations  of  resolutions  of 
international legitimacy and do not hold it accountable. 
As 
to 
cooperate with the Agency or to allow its inspectors to 
verify  potential  sources  of  pollution  emanating  from 
the  Israeli  rockets  that  were  used  to  bomb  the  Dair 
Alzour  site,  as  well  as  the  materials  it  used  in 
contaminating and destroying the bombed site. 

In  that  respect,  Israel’s  continued  refusal  to 
cooperate  with 
its 
continued 
its  military  nuclear 
capability  outside  of  any  international  control  or 
supervision and its disregard for all appeals to create a 
zone  free  of  nuclear  weapons  and  other  weapons  of 
mass  destruction  in  the  Middle  East,  diminish  the 
credibility of the NPT system and threaten the security 
and  stability  of  the  peoples  and  States  of  the  Middle 
East. 

These are extremely grave matters. We had hoped 
that the IAEA Director General would have referred to 
those  issues  in  his  statement,  instead  of  resorting  to 
such expressions as “highly probable”. 

Third,  as  a  very  useful  exercise,  I  will  now  read 
out  to  colleagues  a  paragraph  from  the  memoir  of  the 
former  Director  General  of  the  IAEA,  Mr.  Mohamed 
ElBaradei,  The  Age  of  Deception  —  Nuclear 
Diplomacy  in  Treacherous  Times.  The  paragraph  is 
found on pages 228 and 229 of the memoir. 
improvement  of 
the  Agency’s 
requirements, 
11-57701 

15 
A/66/PV.48 

(spoke in English) 

the  aftermath  of 

“One  of  the  strangest  and  most  striking 
examples  of  nuclear  hypocrisy,  multilateral  and 
multifaceted,  must  surely  be  Israel’s  bombing  of 
the Dair Alzour installation in Syria in September 
2007,  and 
that  attack. 
Speculation  began  almost  immediately  that  the 
site  had  housed  a  nuclear  facility.  Syria  denied 
the  accusations.  Israel  and  the  United  States 
remained  officially  silent,  although  American 
officials talked anonymously on the subject to the 
media.  I  spoke  out  strongly,  noting  that  any 
country  with  information  indicating  that  the 
bombed  facility  was  nuclear  was  under  a  legal 
obligation  to  report  it  to  the  IAEA.  But  no  one 
came  forward  with  such  a  report.  For  the  six 
weeks following the bombing — the most crucial 
period in terms of our seeing inside the facility — 
we  were  unable  to  obtain  any  high  resolution 
imagery from commercial satellites.” 
(spoke in Arabic) 

He  states  that  the  United  States  of  America 
refused  to  supply  the  IAEA  with  the  high-resolution 
imagery  that  the  United  States  claimed  indicated  the 
presence  of  a  building  containing  a  nuclear  reactor  in 
Dair Alzour. If the accusations by the United States had 
been  correct,  why  would  they  have  refused  to  submit 
those high-resolution satellite images, as they were the 
ones who possessed them. That was the question asked 
by Mr. ElBaradei. 

(spoke in English) 

I will continue reading from the same paragraph. 

“On  October  28,  in  New  York,  I  gave  an 
interview  on  CNN’s  Late  Edition  with  Wolf 
Blitzer.  In  response  to  Blitzer’s  question  as  to 
whether the Syrian facility was a nuclear reactor, 
I said we had not seen any evidence to conclude 
one  way  or  the  other.  But  I  was  clear  on  one 
point:  that  ‘to  bomb  first  and  then  ask  questions 
later,’  as  Israel  had  done,  was  deliberately 
undermining  the  system.  Only  the  IAEA,  I 
pointed  out,  had  the  means  to  verify  allegations 
of  clandestine  nuclear  activity. 
In  another 
interview,  with  Charlie  Rose  two  days  later,  I 
pointed  out  that  Israel’s  1981  attack  on  Iraq’s 
Osirak  reactor  had  only  served  as  motivation  to 
accelerate  Saddam  Hussein’s  clandestine  nuclear 
program.” 
Mr.  ElBaradei  continues  on  page  230  of  his 

(spoke in Arabic) 

memoir, 
(spoke in English) 

“but  it  was  clear  that  my  condemnation  of  the 
bombing  at  Dair  Alzour  had  touched  a  nerve. 
John  Bolton  was  openly  supportive  of  Israel’s 
action.”  
Permanent 
the  American 
(spoke in Arabic) 
John  Bolton  was 
Representative to the United Nations three years ago. 
(spoke in English) 

“In  an  interview  on  CNN’s  Late  Edition,  Wolf 
Blitzer  asked  Bolton  what  he  thought  of  my 
public  assertion  that  Israel  should  have  brought 
its  ‘evidence’  to  the  IAEA.  ‘If  you  believe  that,’ 
Bolton retorted, ‘I have a bridge to sell you. The 
notion  that  Israel  or  the  United  States  would  put 
their national security in the IAEA’s hands is just 
delusional.’” 
(spoke in Arabic) 
That is what Bolton said when he was asked to respond 
to ElBaradei. The memoir continues: 
(spoke in English) 

“To  hear  these  sentiments  coming  from  the  U.S. 
Ambassador to the United Nations was dreadful.” 
(spoke in Arabic) 
Fourth,  compliance  by  the  States  parties  to  the 

Agency  Statute  makes  it  necessary  for  the  United 
States  of  America  to  inform  the  Agency  of  the 
information  it  had  before  destroying  the  building,  and 
not eight months later. The same thing applies to Israel, 
which  supplied  the  Agency  with  information,  if  such 
information  were  accurate.  Rather,  it  launched  a 
military  attack  on  the  territory  of  the  State  of  Syria, 
penetrating the air space of a neighbouring State.  
The Agency did not deal with this in an integrated 

manner,  nor  did 
in 
accordance  with  its  responsibilities  and  mandate  with 
regard  to  the  encroachments  and  violations  of  the 
take  necessary  measures 
it 
16 

11-57701 
to 
run  counter 


international nuclear commitments by Israel and by the 
United States of America, in accordance with the NPT. 

Fifth, most of the contents and the findings of the 
Agency  in  the  course  of  the  mandate  of  the  current 
Director  General  regarding  the  Dair  Alzour  site  have 
relied  on  the  imagery  and  analyses  presented  by  the 
Central  Intelligence  Agency  of  the  United  States  of 
America.  My  country  would  therefore  question  the 
credibility of such information received by the Agency, 
as  well  as  the  nature  of  corroborating  documents, 
taking  into  consideration  that  such  information  was 
presented by a State in pursuit of a political agenda that 
is hostile to the interests of my country, Syria. 

Sixth,  the  current  report  of  the  Director  General 
contains incomplete findings based on information that 
lacks  credibility  and  inclusiveness.  The  Agency’s 
assessments  clearly 
its  previous 
assessments, as we have mentioned previously. 
Seventh,  the  continued  confusion  between  the 

legal  commitment  of  a  member  State  by  virtue  of  its 
safeguards  agreement,  and  its  voluntary  accession  to 
the  additional  protocol,  has  no 
legal  basis  and 
constitutes another means of bringing political pressure 
to bear on Syria. 

Eighth,  with  respect  to  States  that  attempt  to 
cover  up  for  Israel’s  nuclear  weapons,  we  pose  a 
question to them, to the Director General of the IAEA, 
and to the IAEA. We would like to ask all of them what 
action  they  have  taken  to  implement  Security  Council 
resolution  487  (1981),  which  was  adopted  on  19  June 
1981 — meaning that more than 30 years have passed 
since  then.  What  have  they  done  to  carry  out  that 
resolution?  At  this  point,  allow  me  to  quote  the 
Security Council’s call on Israel in paragraph 5 of the 
resolution: 
(spoke in English) 

“to  place 
safeguards”. 
(spoke in Arabic) 
That resolution was adopted three decades ago. 
Next,  in  its  important  Yearbook  on  Armaments, 

Disarmament 
the 
Stockholm 
Institute 
(SIPRI)  devoted  a  complete  section  to  what  it  termed 
Israeli nuclear forces. From this rostrum, I call on the 
IAEA and the nuclear-weapons depositary States of the 
its  nuclear  facilities  under  IAEA 
International  Peace  Research 
International 
and 
Security, 
A/66/PV.48
Mr.  Haniff
(Malaysia):  On  behalf  of 
NPT, as well as the nuclear-weapons States members of 
the Security Council, to read that chapter and learn the 
necessary  lessons.  I  am  talking  about  the  book  I  have 
in  my  hand.  In  particular,  those  specialists  here  who 
work  on  the  First  Committee  and  on  disarmament 
matters know what I am talking about. This book was 
not  published  in  Damascus;  it  was  published  in 
Stockholm. 
the 

delegation  of  Malaysia,  I  join  others  in  thanking  the 
Director  General  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy 
Agency  (IAEA)  for  his  presentation  to  the  General 
Assembly of the annual report of the Agency for 2010 
(see A/66/95). Malaysia is also pleased to sponsor draft 
resolution  A/66/L.6.  My  delegation  also  wishes  to 
welcome  the  Dominican  Republic,  the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic Republic and Tonga as new member States 
of the Agency. 

The  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons (NPT) entitles States parties to have access to 
nuclear  technology.  The  Treaty  also  provides  for  the 
exchange  of  nuclear  knowledge  and 
scientific 
information  and  fosters  cooperation  among  States  for 
the development of peaceful uses of nuclear energy. In 
that  connection,  Malaysia  greatly  appreciates 
the 
IAEA’s  role  in  assisting  States  in  planning  for  and 
using  nuclear  science  and  technology  for  peaceful 
purposes.  The  promotion  of  peaceful  applications  of 
nuclear energy constitutes a fundamental activity of the 
IAEA,  as  highlighted  in  IAEA  documents.  In  that 
regard,  my  delegation  is  of  the  view  that  the  IAEA 
must  be  equipped  with  sufficient,  assured  and 
predictable  resources  to  enable  it  to  implement  its 
mandated  activities  so  that  States  pursuing  peaceful 
uses of nuclear energy can benefit from the transfer of 
nuclear technology. 

As  outlined  in  the  Agency’s  report,  more  than 
60 countries have expressed an interest in exploring the 
use of nuclear power. Those countries include my own, 
Malaysia.  As 
economic 
transformation 
power 
development  has  been  identified  as  one  of  the  main 
projects for future power generation. It is aimed purely 
at  ensuring  an  adequate  electricity  supply  for  the 
people  of  Malaysia  beyond 
the  year  2020.  The 
Government  of  Malaysia  is  currently  conducting  an 
in-depth  study  of  the  project  before  making  a  final 
decision  on  the  matter.  Our  focus  is  on  developing  a 
comprehensive nuclear programme, including legal and 
part 
programme, 
of  Malaysia’s 
nuclear 
11-57701 

17 
at 
all 

times, 
contributing 
A/66/PV.48 

regulatory  frameworks,  involving  the  assessment  of 
public  opinion  and  creation  of  a  public  relations  plan. 
The  studies  will  be  conducted  by 
independent 
consultants,  taking  into  consideration  lessons  learned 
from major nuclear incidents in the past, as well as the 
results  of  stress  tests  on  nuclear  power  plants  by 
member States. The overarching objective is to ensure 
that 
the  highest  standards  of  nuclear  safety  are 
observed 
to 
thus 
strengthening global nuclear safety. 

With  regard  to  the  development  of  a  more 
comprehensive  legislative  and  regulatory  framework, 
my  delegation  appreciates  the  IAEA’s  input  into  our 
draft  comprehensive  nuclear  law,  which  seeks  to 
strengthen  existing  legislation.  In  addition,  Malaysia 
has  also  passed  a  strategic  trade  act,  covering  export 
control  measures  for  all  single-  and  dual-use  strategic 
goods,  including  nuclear,  chemical,  biological  and 
missile-related items, as well as conventional arms. 

At  the  regional  level,  Malaysia  has  always 
recognized the importance of regional cooperation and 
has  participated  actively  in  many  regional  projects 
under the aegis of the Agency. Malaysia welcomes the 
Agency’s  efforts  to  create  a  common  framework  for 
nuclear  waste  and  spent  fuel  management  for  the 
countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
(ASEAN) 
the  consultancy  meeting  on 
recommendations  in  spent  fuel  and  radioactive  waste 
management  for  ASEAN  held  in  March,  and  through 
other efforts in the field of nuclear security and safety. 

Notwithstanding the growing renewed interest in 
nuclear  power  generation,  Malaysia  still  accords  high 
priority  to  the  peaceful  uses  of  nuclear  science  and 
technology  for  enhanced  food  and  water  security, 
human  health,  natural  resources  and  environmental 
management, 
industrial  development  and  medical 
applications.  These  sectors  are  being  supported  by 
further  developments 
in 
peaceful nuclear technology research and development, 
commercialization, 
the  development  of  a  more 
comprehensive  legislative  and  regulatory  framework, 
capital 
technological 
development, 
public 
information,  compliance  with  the  international  system 
of nuclear governance, and engagement in international 
cooperation. 

IAEA, 
In that regard, my delegation wishes to thank the 
its  Technical  Cooperation 
infrastructure, 
competency 
in  national  capabilities 
human 
verification, 
particularly 
through 
of 
for 
for 
production 
In  addition,  Malaysia 
its  continuing  support 
Department, 
the 
implementation of IAEA technical cooperation projects 
and  various  other  activities  in  Malaysia,  including  the 
trust  shown  to  Malaysia  in  continuing  to  have  it  host 
the IAEA postgraduate educational course in radiation 
protection  and  the  safety  of  radiation  sources.  My 
delegation also wishes to express its gratitude to other 
member  States  that  have  shown  interest  in  the  course, 
which has attracted candidates from beyond our region 
as well as within it. 

is  also  pleased  and 
appreciative  of  the  fact  that  the  Malaysian  Nuclear 
Agency  has  been  redesignated,  for  the  period  2010-
2014, as the  IAEA Collaborating Centre for Radiation 
Processing  of  Natural  Polymer  and  Nanomaterials. 
Among  other  things,  the  Centre  has  demonstrated  the 
radiation-aided 
non-toxic, 
environmentally friendly palm oil acrylates for printing 
applications. 

With  regard  to  the  assurance  of  supplies  of 
nuclear  fuel,  my  delegation  welcomes  the  continued 
discussions  on 
the  development  of  multilateral 
approaches to the nuclear fuel cycle under the auspices 
of  the  IAEA.  Malaysia  reiterates  that  any  further 
consideration of the issue of assurance of supply must 
be based on a coherent and comprehensive conceptual 
framework  that  adequately  addresses  the  views  and 
concerns  of  all  Member  States.  Malaysia  remains 
convinced  that  further  consideration  of  individual 
proposals  on  this  matter  must  be  preceded  by  a 
consensus 
the  General 
Conference on the conceptual framework that outlines 
the  specific  political,  technical,  economic  and  legal 
parameters.  My  delegation  notes 
the  Agency’s 
continuing efforts to establish and improve the concept 
of  a  low-enriched-uranium  bank  facility.  Nonetheless, 
we  wish  to  underline  that  such  an  arrangement  must 
accommodate  the  inalienable  rights  of  NPT  States 
parties to nuclear technology. 
With  regard  to  international  effort  to  establish  a 

Middle East zone free of nuclear weapons and all other 
weapons  of  mass  destruction,  which  was  agreed  to  by 
States  party  to  the  NPT  during  the  NPT  Review 
Conference  in  2010,  my  delegation  welcomes  the 
appointment  of  Mr.  Jaakko  Laajava,  Under-Secretary 
of State for Foreign and Security Policy of Finland, as 
facilitator. We also welcome the designation of Finland 
as  the  host  Government  for  the  2012  Conference, 
which  could  provide  the  impetus  for  the  creation  of 
adopted  by 
agreement 
18 

11-57701 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 


such  zone  in  the  Middle  East.  We  also  support  the 
efforts  of  the  Director  General  to  convene  an  IAEA 
forum in Vienna later this month to further support this 
process. 

Finally,  Malaysia  would  like  to  express  once 
again its appreciation to the Director General of IAEA, 
as well  as to  the IAEA secretariat for their significant 
and valuable work in fulfilling the Agency’s mandate. 

speaker in the debate on agenda item 86.  

We shall now proceed to consider draft resolution 
A/66/L.6.  Before  giving  the  floor  to  the  speakers  in 
explanation  of  vote  before  the  voting,  may  I  remind 
delegations  that  explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to 
10 minutes  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from 
their seats.  
Mr. Ri Tong Il (Democratic People’s Republic of 

Korea):  Concerning 
the  general  statements  made 
earlier,  the  delegation  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  would  like  to  express  its  heartfelt 
thanks to the representatives who showed attention and 
support for the peaceful settlement of the nuclear issue 
on the Korean peninsula. 

Concerning  draft  resolution  A/66/L.6  and  the 
report  of  the  International  Atomic  Energy  Agency 
(A/66/95),  the  delegation  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea totally and categorically rejects that 
report.  The  report  again  refers  to  the  nuclear  issue  of 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, as well as 
to 
the  Agency’s  previous  history  of  behaving 
impartially.  In  particular,  the  report  refers  to  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  with  no  basis 
in fundamental reality, and is therefore misleading with 
regard to that reality.  

the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea would like to make a few comments 
concerning  the  factors  that  violate  and  distort  the 
fundamental reality. 

First  of  all,  the  report  refers  to  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea as if it were a member of 
the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA). That 
is  not  the  case  in  reality.  The  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  withdrew  from  IAEA  in  1994  and 
from  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons (NPT) in 2003. Those withdrawals are in line 
with  international  law.  In  particular,  article  X  of  the 
Treaty stipulates that States parties can withdraw from 
The  delegation  of 
A/66/PV.48
included  on 
the  NPT  if  the  supreme  interest  of  that  State  is  in 
jeopardy,  and  that  was  in  fact  the  case  for  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  In  2002,  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  was  included 
on  the  Bush  Administration’s  list  of  the  axis  of  evil; 
that.  The  Democratic  People’s 
everybody  knows 
Republic  of  Korea  was 
the  Bush 
Administration’s  list  of  seven  countries  in  line  for 
nuclear  pre-emptive  strikes,  and  those  policies,  which 
were  part  of 
the  Bush  Administration’s  nuclear 
doctrine, compelled the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea  to  withdraw  from  the  NPT.  The  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  made  a  firm  decision  to 
exit the Treaty in order to defend our supreme interest, 
namely,  the  security,  dignity  and  sovereignty  of  the 
country.  

When the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea 
joined  the  NPT,  it  was  in  the  expectation  that  the 
nuclear danger would be removed  from the peninsula. 
As  everybody  knows,  the  United  States  introduced 
nuclear  weapons  into  South  Korea  in  1957.  The  first 
nuclear  weapons  arrived  in  South  Korea  in  1957. The 
total  had  reached  1,000  by  1970.  Everybody  can 
imagine  the  threat  of  nuclear  disaster  with  which  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea has been living 
for  over  six  decades.  Given 
the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea had no choice 
but to withdraw from the NPT. 

Secondly, with respect to the fundamental reality, 
the  report  makes  reference  to  uranium  enrichment. 
Everybody has an equal right to enrich uranium under 
international  law.  That  is  in  line  with  international 
trends  and  is  reflected  in  the  report,  which  states  that 
over  90  countries  are  now  moving  towards  peaceful 
nuclear  energy.  Those  countries  opted  for  nuclear 
power to meet their energy needs, and the Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea has made the same choice. 
In  particular,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea is a party to the Six-Party Talks, under which the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea has that right, 
which  is  stipulated  as  a  component  of  the  Six-Party 
Talks. 

If  one  considers  the  historical  background,  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  has  been 
damaged  in  its  construction  of  independent  nuclear 
power.  In  1994,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea  and  the  United  States  agreed  on  a  framework, 
the  first  ever  historical  document  between  the  two 
sides,  which  have  had  hostile  relations.  By  2003,  the 
that  situation, 
11-57701 

19 

that 
the 
the 
reactor 
two  sides, 
that  agreement, 
A/66/PV.48 

United  States  was  obliged  to  provide  light-water 
reactors  in  compensation  for  freezing  the  verified 
moderate 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea had been conducting with a capacity 
of  2  million  kilowatts  of  electricity.  But  by  the  year 
2002,  as  I  said,  the  Bush  Administration  unilaterally 
abrogated that agreement without giving prior notice to 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. So far, the 
United  States  has  not  paid  a  single  penny 
to 
compensate  for  the  loss  it  caused  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  We  have  computed 
already  how  much  compensation  the  United  States 
should pay for that; everybody can imagine how much 
that should be. 

Thirdly, there is mention of the threat of nuclear 
tests to international peace and security. Again, that is 
not  the  case  and  goes  against  the  fundamental  reality. 
As  I  said,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
and the United States made an agreement and adopted 
it  in  1994.  That  was  the  first-ever  agreed  framework 
first-ever  historical 
between 
agreement.  Under 
is  one 
component  that  stipulates  that  the  United  States  is 
committed  not  to  use  nuclear  weapons  and  not  to 
threaten  the  security  of  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea. But that was not the case with the 
United  States.  In  2002,  the  United  States  listed  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea along with Iran 
and Iraq as the axis of evil. First, Iraq was mercilessly 
attacked with armed invasion by the United States, and 
everybody  knows  what  has  happened  so  far.  One 
month  after  the  end  of  the  Iraq  war,  the  Bush 
Administration  openly  said  that  the  next  target  would 
be  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  The 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  said  that  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea is not Iraq. 

So those are the threats that have been caused so 
far by the United States. More than ever before, we are 
under  increasing  nuclear  threat  from  nuclear-powered 
submarines  carrying  nuclear  weapons  and 
from 
nuclear-powered  aircraft  carriers  carrying  massive 
amounts of weapons of destruction and different types 
of  sophisticated  weaponry  that  daily  enter  the  Korean 
peninsula,  South  Korea  and  its  vicinity.  This  is  the 
threat,  with  a  military  alliance, 
is  growing 
increasingly  stronger,  with  a  negative  impact  on  the 
Korean peninsula, the region and the world as a whole. 

Concerning the demarche by the Director General 
of  the  IAEA,  he  referred  to  the  Democratic  People’s 
there 
that 
it 
resolutions  — 
the  fundamental  reality  of  what 
Republic  of  Korea  once  again  and  urged 
to 
implement  the  Security  Council  resolutions  against  it. 
Those  Security  Council 
two 
resolutions —  were  totally  and  categorically  rejected 
by the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, as each 
of them was adopted, as being of no help at all to peace 
and  security  on  the  Korean  peninsula,  and  actually 
undermining peace and security there, because they do 
not reflect fundamental realities. 

The United States has been a perpetrator in terms 
of  the  nuclear  threat  to  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  since  1957.  The  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea has been under that nuclear 
threat — a victim. But the Security Council resolutions 
view  this  in  a  different  way,  as  if  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  were  an  offender,  a 
perpetrator  of  the  nuclear  threat  against  world  peace 
and  security.  I  would  like  to  remind  the  Director 
General  of 
is 
happening and of what has occurred in the past.  

In  conclusion,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea  delegation  would  like  to  clarify  its  position 
on the settlement of the nuclear issue. The Government 
of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  firmly 
believes  that  military  exercises  and  military  alliances 
are not an option or a solution to the nuclear issue on 
the  Korean  peninsula.  The  Government  of 
the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  remains 
committed  to  the  denuclearization  of  the  Korean 
peninsula  through  the  Six-Party  Talks,  at  the  earliest 
possible  date,  without  any  preconditions  and  in  the 
context of the full implementation of the 19 September 
joint  statement,  in  a  comprehensive  and  balanced 
manner based on the principle of simultaneous action.  

That  is  what  our  great  leader,  the  respected  Kim 
Jong Il, underlined in his recent interview with ITAR-
TASS. 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

take a decision on draft resolution A/66/L.6. May I take 
it  that  the Assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft  resolution 
A/66/L.6? 
Draft 

(resolution 66/7). 
The Acting President: I  shall now  call on those 

representatives  who  wish  to  speak  in  exercise  of  the 
right of reply. 
resolution  A/66/L.6  was 
adopted
20 

11-57701 
that  statements 
The  delegation  of 
May  I  remind  members 



in 
exercise of the right of reply are limited to 10 minutes 
for  the  first  intervention  and  to  five  minutes  for  the 
second intervention and should be made by delegations 
from their seats. 
Mr. Ri Tong Il (Democratic People’s Republic of 

Korea):  Thank  you,  Madam  President,  for  giving  me 
the floor once again. 

the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  categorically  rejects  the  remarks 
made by the representatives of Japan and South Korea, 
because  they  have  no  fundamental  reality  or  truth  as 
concerns the Korean peninsula, as I said earlier. 

I  should  like  to  draw  the  attention  of  the 
representatives  participating  in  this  meeting  to  one 
issue: South Korea is under the nuclear umbrella of the 
United States, as I mentioned earlier. It has been living 
under  the  nuclear  umbrella  of  the  United  States,  the 
largest  nuclear-weapon  State.  With  respect  to  South 
Korea,  the  first  thing  we  want  to  know  is  why  it 
allowed  a  foreign  Power,  the  largest  nuclear-weapon 
Power,  to  bring  this  to  our  land  —  in  a  move  that  is 
disastrous to our national survival, our national dignity 
and our national sovereignty. That is the first question 
that the nationals of the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea  have  in  their  hearts.  I  think  that  most  of  the 
participants in this meeting will share this view. 

As far as United States nuclear weapons in South 
Korea, in 1975 a shocking and surprising media report 
came  out. A  parliamentary  debate  was  ongoing  in  the 
United States on the military budget of that country for 
1976,  and  it  was  only  then  that  the  fact  that  nuclear 
weapons  had  been  deployed  to  South  Korea  was 
revealed. 
that  South  Korean 
authorities learned that there were nuclear weapons in 
South  Korea.  No  South  Korean  authorities  or 
politicians were aware of that fact. 

There is another factor to which the delegation of 
the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea would like 
to  draw  attention:  the  military  alliance.  As  I  said 
the 
before, 
is  a  very  serious  concern  for 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and 
the 
countries  in  the  North-East  Asian  region  and  in  our 
Asia-Pacific region. 

The military exercises, in scope and in nature, are 
giving rise to increasingly grave concerns. Even as we 
speak, 
the  United  States  and  South  Korea  are 
It  was  only 
then 
this 
A/66/PV.48
troops?  A 
total  of  140,000 
took  a  confrontational  approach 
conducting  joint  military  exercises  in  South  Korea. 
They  began  on  27  October  and  continue  through 
tomorrow.  How  many  people  are  participating?  How 
many 
troops  are 
participating. The Western media are not reporting this 
news.  This  is  causing  great  concern,  as  it  is  taking 
place  while  a  dialogue  is  ongoing.  The  South  Korean 
authorities  are  carrying  out  this  kind  of  military 
provocation  even  as  dialogue  is  being  conducted.  As 
members  are  aware,  just  last  week  there  was  a 
dialogue.  
Yet  the  South  Korean  representative,  at  this 

meeting, 
in  his 
remarks,  failing  to  mention  a  single  word  about 
dialogue towards the settlement of the nuclear issue on 
the Korean peninsula. Therefore, the delegation of the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  would  like  to 
urge  the  representative  and  the  authorities  of  South 
Korea to remove the United States military bases from 
South  Korea;  they  have  been  there  for  more  than  six 
decades, since 1945, dividing the country and creating 
a disastrous risk for the Democratic People’s Republic 
of  Korea,  its  South  Korean  brothers  and  the  entire 
Korean  nation.  We  urge  South  Korea  to  remove  the 
military bases of the United States, which are a haven 
for United States nuclear weapons. 

As  for  Japan,  the  same  applies.  It  is  also  under 
the nuclear umbrella of the United States. Furthermore, 
in  1960  the  Japanese  Government  made  a  secret  deal 
with  the  United  States  to  allow  American  warships 
carrying nuclear weapons to enter the territorial waters 
of  Japan.  Since  that  time,  it  is  everyday  business  for 
United States naval forces carrying nuclear weapons. It 
is  up  to  them  when  they  come  and  go,  without 
providing any information at all. Furthermore, Japan is 
the  largest  weapons-grade  plutonium  accumulator  in 
the world, to the tune of more than 40 tons, and it has 
the technology for nuclear weapons. It can assemble a 
nuclear  weapon  at  short  notice  —  within  one  week. 
This is known to every expert and every population in 
this world. It is an open secret. 

Concerning  means of delivery, it is also an open 
secret that the Japanese Government did not hesitate to 
engage in joint research and development in the area of 
missile  defence  with  the  United  States,  which  it  has 
been doing since 1999. Now it is reaching the stage of 
practical  deployment  in  strategic  positions,  affecting 
the peace and stability of North-East Asia and the Asia-
Pacific regions and the entire world. 
11-57701 

21 

the 
(IAEA) 
reported 
supported  by 
The  Security  Council  has 
A/66/PV.48 

Mr.  Rim  Kap-soo  (Republic  of  Korea):  I  would 

like to exercise the Republic of Korea’s right of reply 
in  response  to  the  North  Korean  delegation’s  claims, 
which  clearly  run  counter  to  facts  that  have  been 
recognized  and 
international 
community.  

Let me briefly chronicle what has happened since 
the  year  1993.  The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea announced unilateral withdrawal from the Treaty 
on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons (NPT) in 
1993  and  again  in  2003.  In  1993,  the  International 
Atomic  Energy  Agency 
the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic’s  non-compliance  with 
the safeguards agreement to the Security Council. The 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  conducted  nuclear  tests 
in 2006, just a year after the adoption of the 2005 Joint 
Statement.  In  April  2009,  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  kicked  the  IAEA  inspectors  out  of  their 
country  and,  in  May  of  the  same  year,  they  again 
conducted  nuclear  tests.  Last  year,  they  disclosed 
another nuclear programme for uranium enrichment.  

three 
resolutions,  five  presidential  statements  and  one  press 
statement  on  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea nuclear issue. Council resolution 825 (1993) was 
the  Democratic  People’s 
adopted 
Republic 
unilateral  withdrawal. 
Resolutions  1718  (2006)  and  1874  (2009)  were 
adopted  right  after  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
conducted nuclear tests in 2006 and 2009, respectively. 
In resolution  1874 (2009),  the Security  Council stated 
that  it  “[c]ondemns  in  the  strongest  terms  the  nuclear 
test”  and  decided 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  should  abandon  all  nuclear  weapons  and 
existing  nuclear  programmes.  Further,  the  Security 
Council called upon the Democratic People’s Republic 
to act in strict accordance with its obligations under the 
NPT and IAEA safeguards.  

Not  only  did  the  Security  Council  act,  but  the 
2005  Joint  Statement  of  the  Six  Parties  clearly  stated 
that  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  undertook  to 
abandon  all  nuclear  weapons  and  existing  nuclear 
programmes.  The  Final  Document  of  the  2010  NPT 
Review  Conference  reaffirmed  that  fact  and  requested 
the Democratic People’s Republic to return to the NPT 
and 
IAEA  safeguards. 
Numerous  violations  detected  by  IAEA  also  confirm 
that fact, and further, the South-North Joint Declaration 
on  the  Denuclearization  of  the  Korean  Peninsula, 
to  compliance  with 
in  1993  when 
announced 
adopted 
its 
that 
the 
the 
that 
right, 
signed  on  31  December  1991,  clearly  stipulated  that 
North  Korea  should  not  produce  uranium  enrichment 
facilities.  

The North Korean delegation is blatantly ignoring 
all  of  those  obligations  and  now  claims  the  right  of 
peaceful  use.  With 
international 
community,  including  the  United  Nations  and  the 
IAEA, would, in their view, be ganging up in a grand 
conspiracy  against 
innocent  North  Korean 
authorities,  but  the  North  Korean  authorities  continue 
to  confront  and  violate  its  international  obligations.  I 
believe that the North Korean position defies common 
sense. 

Secondly,  regarding  national  security,  there  have 
been  a  great  many  unprovoked  provocations  by  North 
Korea.  Of  such  provocations,  I  will  give  but  some 
examples  of  those  that  were  brought  to  and  discussed 
at  the  United  Nations.  In  1983,  bombs  exploded  and 
killed 17 high-level officials of the Republic of Korea, 
including  our 
then-Foreign  Minister,  who  were 
accompanying  our  President  to  Myanmar  on  a  State 
visit.  In  1987,  a  civilian  Korea  Air  Lines  flight 
exploded mid-air on the way home from abroad; all of 
the  115  people  aboard  were  killed.  In  1996,  a  North 
Korea submarine infiltrated our  coastline with heavily 
armed  military  personnel,  which  led  to  a  Security 
Council presidential statement (S/PRST/1996/42).  

I will not elaborate any further on what happened 
last  year  —  the  Cheonan  sinking  and  the Yeonpyeong 
shelling, which killed 50 people. Just last year, by my 
rough  count,  over  200  Korean  people  were  killed  or 
injured.  Beside 
the 
Democratic People’s Republic has also mounted a great 
many verbal provocations. In 1994, a senior official of 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  made  the 
threatening  remark  that  “Seoul  is  not  far  from  the 
border. If war breaks out, Seoul will fall into the sea of 
fire”. Those same remarks were repeated last year by a 
senior  military  general  of  the  North  Korean  regime. 
Last  December,  North  Korea’s  top  military  general 
declared  that  nuclear  war  is  nearing  and  that  all  of 
South Korea will be engulfed in nuclear fire.  

is 
threatening? Who is living under a constant threat? Is it 
the North or the South? I will leave the answer to this 
question to the Assembly’s common sense. 
Lastly, after the signing of the South-North Joint 

Declaration  on  the  Denuclearization  of  the  Korean 
those  physical  provocations, 
is,  once  again,  who 
Now,  my  question 
the 
22 

11-57701 
the 
or 
to  date,  such  as 
three  non-nuclear  principles,  namely 
permitting 


Peninsula in 1992, there has not been a single piece of 
news  about  any  situation  in  that  connection  in  South 
Korea. That is also a fact. 
Mr. Kodama (Japan): I would like to exercise the 

right of reply to the allegations against Japan made by 
the representative of the Democratic People’s Republic 
of Korea at this meeting. Let me set the record straight 
on the following three points.  
First of all, the Japanese Government’s adherence 

that 
to 
the 
possessing,  manufacturing 
introduction  of  nuclear  weapons  into  the  territory  of 
Japan 
is  prohibited,  remains  unchanged.  Japan’s 
determination  to  bring  about  the  total  elimination  of 
nuclear  weapons  with  a  view  to  achieving  a  world 
without nuclear weapons is unshakeable. In that regard, 
indeed,  there  exist  no  facts  supporting  any  claim  that 
the  Government  of  Japan  has  ever  allowed 
the 
introduction  of  nuclear  weapons  by  the  United  States 
on  Japanese  territories.  Based  on  the  United  States 
nuclear  policy  expressed 
the 
announcement  in  1991,  it  is  the  judgment  of  the 
Government  of  Japan  that  there  has  currently  been  no 
introduction  of  nuclear  weapons  by  the  United  States, 
including  vessels  and/or  aircraft,  to  call  at  ports  in, 
land on or transit through Japanese territories. 

Secondly,  Japan  has  strictly  complied  with  its 
obligations  under  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation 
of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  and  the  International 
Atomic  Energy Agency  (IAEA)  safeguards  as  a  State 
party to the NPT. The peaceful nature of Japan’s use of 
nuclear energy has been confirmed by the IAEA in its 
annual  conclusion  that  all  nuclear  material  remains 
within  peaceful  activities.  Moreover,  beyond  its  legal 
obligations, Japan has, as an international transparency 
measure, 
its 
plutonium  holdings  in  accordance  with  the  guidelines 
for  the  management  of  plutonium,  most  recently  on 
29 September 2011. 
an 

and 
exclusively 
policy.  Therefore, 
defence-oriented 
exercises  conducted  by  the  Self-Defence  Forces  of 
Japan  do  not  target  any  particular  country  or  area. 
Moreover,  the  ballistic  missile  defence  system  which 
Japan  has  decided  to  introduce  is  purely  defensive  in 
nature  and  does  not  threaten  any  country  or  area 
neighbouring Japan. 
Japan  maintains 
the  amount  of 
regularly 
reported 
Thirdly 
finally, 
A/66/PV.48
Japan, 
Secondly,  concerning 
the  Republic  of  Korea  and 
The  Acting  President:  I  remind  members  that 

statements  made  in  exercise  of  right  of  reply  are 
limited to five minutes for the second intervention. 
Mr. Ri Tong Il (Democratic People’s Republic of 

Korea): Concerning the remarks by the representatives 
of 
these 
representatives again made remarks that do not convey 
the fundamental realities on the Korean peninsula and 
in the vicinity, specifically in Japan. The representative 
of South Korea tells a different story by not referring to 
the nuclear umbrella that it has been using for over six 
decades,  the  world’s  largest  nuclear-weapon  nuclear 
umbrella.  This  is  of  the  greatest  concern  to  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  North-East 
Asia  and  the Asia-Pacific  region.  In  the  entire  region 
there  is  not  a  single  nuclear  weapon  threatening  the 
sovereignty,  dignity  or  national  survival  of 
the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  The  only 
threat is the United States’ nuclear umbrella, and South 
Korea is using that umbrella, though the representative 
did not refer to it.  

the  Security  Council 
resolutions,  as  I  said  earlier,  the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea totally rejects them as reflecting no 
fundamental reality on the Korean peninsula. That fact 
undermines  the  mandate  of  the  Security  Council  and 
the  credibility  of  the  United  Nations  Charter,  which 
stipulates  that  every  country  has  a  sovereign  right  to 
defend itself. Self-defence is indeed at stake in the case 
of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  which 
exists  under  South  Korea’s  nuclear  umbrella  provided 
by the largest nuclear-weapon State. 

Thirdly, concerning the so-called — according to 
what  was  said  here  earlier  —  terrorist  attacks  by  the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  it  was  the 
dictatorial regime of South Korea that was responsible. 
Every time there was a political crisis at that time the 
South Korean authorities made up a story, diverting the 
attention  of  the  people  of  South  Korea  to  accusations 
against the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, so 
that the authorities could survive the political crisis.  

It  is  the  same  with  the  current  South  Korean 
authorities. In the case of last year’s Cheonan incident, 
as  soon  as  they  came  to  power  the  South  Korean 
authorities  stopped  all  the  channels  of  reconciliation 
dialogue  between  the  two  sides,  which  were  in  place 
under and in line with the Joint Declaration of 15 June 
2000,  adopted  at  the  summit  meeting  in  Pyongyang, 
11-57701 

23 

that 
about 
incident.  The 
A/66/PV.48 

which  was  followed  by  another  summit  meeting  in 
2007.  But  the  South  Korean  authorities  stopped  that 
entire process, and now they are in a political crisis. So 
they  fabricated  the  so-called  Cheonan  incident.  And 
how many young soldiers did they kill? It was over 40. 
There is much profound scepticism about that incident, 
and 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
strongly  insists  that  the  ones  responsible  for  that 
incident  should  be  brought  to  justice.  There  is  much 
scepticism 
so-called 
assessment  survey  results  are  less  than  convincing. 
There  are  many  questions,  even  among  the  South 
Korean population. Experts living in the United States 
have  themselves  openly  released  their  own  arguments 
against the survey results. 
In  response  to  the  delegate  of  Japan,  Japan  has 

once  again  made  false  remarks  under  the  guise  of 
so-called three non-nuclear principles. But fortunately, 
last  year  the  Foreign  Minister  of  Japan  acknowledged 
the proven entry of United States nuclear weapons into 
the  territorial  waters  of  Japan,  on  the  adoption  of  the 
secret nuclear deal in 1960. They never asked what was 
coming into their territorial waters. Also, Japan is now 
making  a  lot  of  territorial  plans  —  on  the  Korean 
peninsula in Dokdo Island, on Chinese territory in the 
Diaoyu  Islands  and  on  Russian  territory  in  the  Kuril 
Islands.  And  one  country  is  encouraging  Japan  to 
continue  pressing  those  claims  —  and  that  is  the 
United States. 
(Republic  of  Korea): 

Regarding the claims made by the representative of the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea, I will be very 
brief. First, Seoul is just 55 miles away from the border 
and  has  a  population  of  12  million  people. Along  the 
border  there  are  1  million  North  Korean  troops.  They 
have  made  a  great  many  provocations,  as  I  indicated 
earlier.  Without  going  into  detail,  there  are  over 
24 cases. So we are constantly being threatened by the 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea.  I  live  in 
Seoul, so I know very well how difficult and dangerous 
it  is  to  live  in  such  a  situation.  So,  if  the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea claims that they are facing  

Mr.  Rim  Kap-soo
representative  of 
a  nuclear  threat  from  the  United  States,  Seoul  is  just 
55 miles  away  from  the  hostile  nuclear  arms  of  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea. 

Secondly,  last  year  our  ship  Cheonan  was  sunk, 
and 46 young soldiers died. Also, in November one of 
our  islands  was  very  heavily  shelled,  killing  four 
people. There was no response to our complaints from 
the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea. They  did 
not  acknowledge  or  even  refute  any  wrongdoing.  But 
then,  who  did  it?  Did  the  “Phantom  of  the  Opera”  do 
it?  

Thirdly,  the  representative  of  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  mentioned  our  dictatorial 
regime  in  1980  inventing  fabrications.  Allow  me  to 
advise his delegation that the dictatorial regime in the 
North  should  take  care  of  its  own  people  before 
making such allegations. 
Mr.  Kodama  (Japan):  I  will  be  very  brief. 

the 
Whatever  allegations 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  made  in  his 
second  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply,  my  delegation 
would  like  very  much  to  remind  the  international 
community 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  that  continued  developing  its 
nuclear and missile programmes, including its uranium 
enrichment  programme,  in  violation  of  the  relevant 
Security Council resolutions and of the Joint Statement 
of  19  September  2005  coming  out  of  the  Six-Party 
Talks. 
It  is  imperative  for  the  Democratic  People’s 

to 
Republic  of  Korea 
demonstrate  its  genuine  commitment  to  complete, 
verifiable  and  irreversible  denuclearization  and  to 
improving  inter-Korean  relations,  in  order  to  have 
meaningful dialogue among the six parties. 

wish  of 
consideration of agenda item 86? 



The Acting President: May I take it that it is the 
its 
It was so decided. 
  The meeting rose at 12.40 p.m. 
the  General  Assembly 
take  concrete  steps 
to  conclude 
that 
it  was 
the 
to 
24 

11-57701 
