
A/66/PV.25
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

25th plenary meeting 
Monday, 26 September 2011, 9 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 





  The meeting was called to order at 9.05 a.m. 

Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate 



to 
  Address by Mr. Mompati S. Merafhe, Vice-
President of the Republic of Botswana 
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

address  by  the  Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of 
Botswana. 

Mr.  Mompati  S.  Merafhe,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic  of  Botswana,  was  escorted 
the 
rostrum. 
The  President: 
I  have  great  pleasure 

in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mompati  S.  Merafhe, 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Botswana,  and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Marafhe  (Botswana):  It  is  with  infinite 

pleasure, Mr. President, that I join other speakers who 
preceded  me  in  expressing  our  felicitations  to  you  on 
to 
your  election 
the  General 
Assembly  at 
its  sixty-sixth  session.  We  owe  an 
immense  debt  of  gratitude  to  your  great  country,  the 
State of Qatar, for making you available to the service 
of  the  international  community.  We  are  confident  that 
under  your  guidance  and  leadership  the  sixty-sixth 
session  will  achieve  a  successful  outcome,  one  which 
will  make  a  difference  to  the  lives  of  multitudes  of 
disadvantaged people around the world. May I also pay 
tribute to your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Joseph 
Deiss,  whose  effective  and  exemplary  stewardship  of 

the  presidency  of 
therefore 
to  seize 
the  sixty-fifth  session  earned  our  deep  respect  and 
admiration. 

As  the  world’s  problems  have  in  recent  decades 
increased  in  numbers  and  complexity,  so  have  the 
challenges  and  responsibilities  of  the  United  Nations 
Secretary-General,  the  head  of  our  grand  institution.  I 
am  pleased  to  note  that  the  Secretary-General,  His 
Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  has  acquitted  himself 
extremely  well,  at 
times  under  very  difficult 
circumstances.  We  specifically  wish  to  commend  him 
for his concerted efforts in raising the alarm on conflict 
situations  and  emerging  threats  to  international  peace 
and  security.  Allow  me 
this 
opportunity to sincerely congratulate Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon on his well-deserved reappointment for a 
second term. 

My  delegation  is  of  the  conviction  that  all 
problems  and  challenges  confronting  humanity  can  be 
resolved  within  the  letter  and  spirit  of  the  United 
Nations  Charter  and 
that 
connection,  we  must  each  do  our  part  and  work 
together  to  improve  the  lives  of  our  people  by 
conquering hunger, disease and illiteracy, to encourage 
respect for human rights and freedoms and to respond 
to  natural  disasters  and  different  humanitarian 
situations. 

Once again this year, the world has experienced a 
number  of  natural  and  man-made  disasters,  including 
violent,  senseless  attacks  that  have  claimed  numerous 
lives,  left  many  homeless,  caused  massive  destruction 
of  property  and  caused  intolerable  pain  and  suffering. 
international 
law. 
In 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-51384 (E) 
*1151384* 




and 
Our 
profound 
sympathies 
community 
the  attention  of 
A/66/PV.25 

My  delegation  wishes 
to  express  our  heartfelt 
condolences  to  all  those  countries  that  have  been 
victims of those tragedies. 

heartfelt 
condolences go to the Government and people of Japan 
for the unfortunate Fukushima incident, triggered by a 
massive earthquake and subsequent tsunami that struck 
that country early this year. We also wish to convey our 
condolences  and  sympathies  to  the  Government  and 
people  of  Norway  on 
the  recent  senseless  and 
horrifying attack that left many people dead. 

The humanitarian situation in the Horn of Africa 
equally  deserves  our  attention.  We  commend  the 
United  Nations  for  calling 
the 
international community to the plight of the victims of 
that  disaster.  We  in  Botswana  have  made  our  modest 
contribution to that relief effort. We express our sincere 
appreciation  to  the  United  Nations  system  and  the 
international community as a whole for their generous 
and timely response to those tragedies. 
At  the  inception  of  the  United  Nations,  the 

international 
solemn 
determination  to  safeguard  succeeding  generations 
from the scourge of war. In the intervening period, the 
world  has  seen  monumental  changes  with  profound 
effects  on  humanity.  The  end  of  colonialism  and  the 
cold  war,  the  defeat  of  the  inhuman  system  of 
apartheid, the institutionalization of conflict prevention 
and  resolution  mechanisms  around  the  world,  as  well 
as  the  strengthening  of  collaboration  between  the 
United  Nations  and  regional  organizations  in  dealing 
with conflict situations, come to mind in this regard. 

For decades the people of South Sudan have been 
engulfed  in  a  seemingly  endless  bloody  conflagration, 
accompanied  by  heavy  loss  of  human  life,  destruction 
of  property  and  condemnation  to  untold  misery  and 
suffering. However, we are delighted that the people of 
South  Sudan,  with  the  assistance  and  support  of  the 
international  community,  have  realized  their  long-
cherished  dream.  They  now  face  a  new  dawn  of 
freedom and nationhood. Allow me, therefore, to pay a 
fitting tribute to South Sudan on the assumption of her 
rightful  place  in  the  comity  of  nations  as  a  sovereign 
and  independent  State  and  the  193rd  Member  of  the 
United Nations. 

South Sudan will obviously need the full support 
of  the  international  community  in  addressing  the 
including 
plethora  of  challenges  of  nationhood, 
pledged 
a 
and 
normalcy, 
reconstruction 
outstanding  issues  from  the  Comprehensive  Peace 
Agreement such as the future of the Abyei region, and 
other separation issues that could easily undermine this 
fragile transition. Botswana will endeavour, within the 
limit of her resources, to assist our brothers and sisters 
in  South  Sudan  translate  their  political  freedom  into 
tangible social and economic benefits. 

The  evolving  situation  in  Côte  d’Ivoire  is  also  a 
cause  for  optimism.  While  many  security  concerns 
remain,  we  believe  President  Ouattara  and  his 
Government  have put in place the necessary measures 
to  consolidate  peace,  build  confidence,  promote 
national reconciliation and set the country on the path 
to 
sustainable 
development. We  urge  the  international  community  to 
remain actively engaged in supporting this process. 

While  notable  strides  have  been  made  towards 
resolving  some  conflicts,  regrettably  the  same  cannot 
be said of many other conflict situations, such as those 
in  the  Middle  East,  Somalia  and  Syria,  where  peace 
remains elusive, with attendant hardship and misery. 

On  Somalia,  my  delegation  takes  note  of  the 
conclusion of the recent Kampala Accord between the 
President  of  the  Federal  Transitional  Government  and 
the  Speaker  of  Parliament,  which  is  a  welcome  move 
towards 
that 
country.  However,  we  remain  concerned  about  the 
deteriorating  security  situation  and 
the  growing 
humanitarian  crisis  in  that  country,  and  we  call  on  all 
parties  to  remain  engaged  and  to  fully  honour  their 
obligations under that Accord. 

Regarding  the  Middle  East,  Botswana  shares  the 
general  frustration  at  the  prolonged  impasse  in  the 
situation 
the 
Palestinians  and  Israelis  to  remain  engaged  in  the 
negotiations  on  the  basis  of  a  two-State  solution,  in 
which  the  two  peoples  will  live  side  by  side  in  peace 
and harmony. 
There  are  other  emerging  threats  to  international 

peace and security. My delegation is deeply concerned 
about  States  that  continue  to  violate  with  impunity 
their  obligations  under 
their  constitutions  and 
international  law  to  protect  their  citizens  from  any 
armed conflict.  
This very Organization is founded on the premise 

that  Governments  have 
the  primary  duty  and 
responsibility to do all in their power to safeguard the 
region.  We  call  on  both 
the  political  situation 
improving 
that 
in 
in 
2 

11-51384 


legitimate  aspirations  of  their  people  for  a  better  life, 
including  ensuring  their  safety  and  security.  It  is 
therefore  imperative  that  Governments  provide  an 
environment  conducive  to  addressing  the  legitimate 
concerns  and  grievances  of  their  people  through 
inclusive dialogue and mutual understanding. 

Consequently,  it  is  not  acceptable  under  any 
circumstances  for  any  State  to  use  military  force 
against  the  civilian  population  —  the  very  citizens  it 
has sworn to protect. I believe we all agree that this is a 
clear  violation  of  human  rights  and  international  law 
and  an  infringement  of  our  common  value  system 
enshrined in the United Nations Charter. 

Our  view  is  that  any  leader  who  sanctions  such 
use of force  on his people forfeits the legitimate right 
to  be  recognized  as  representing  the  interests  of  his 
people.  The  international  community  should  therefore 
spare  no  effort  in  applying  all  the  necessary  measures 
at its disposal to protect civilians from such repressive 
Governments  and  to  hold  them  accountable  for  their 
atrocities.  In  this  regard,  support  for  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC)  is  crucial  for  realizing  the  full 
implementation of the Rome Statute. 

We  commend  the  Security  Council  for  its  swift 
and resolute action on Libya under its resolution 1973 
(2011), which authorized NATO to protect civilians in 
that country.  

However,  we  remain  concerned  about  the  delay 
and procrastination on a number of situations in Syria. 
The  Council’s 
rights 
violations and the military assault on civilians by Syria 
came  rather  too  late.  It  failed  to  convey  a  clear  and 
unequivocal  message  of  revulsion 
the  Syrian 
authorities  and  to  urge  them  to  respect  international 
humanitarian  law  and  human  rights.  Crimes  against 
humanity  have  been  committed  in  Syria,  and  the 
leadership  in  that  country  should  answer  for  such 
crimes through the ICC. 
It  is  important  that  the  international  community 

remain  vigilant  against  any  breach  of  international 
peace  and  security  and  also  respond  in  a  decisive, 
consistent and timely manner to any such instances. We 
find  it  unacceptable  that  such  countries  as  mentioned 
can continue to belong to a community of peace-loving 
nations. 

Botswana  recognizes  the  National  Transitional 
Council (NTC) in Libya as the interim Administration 
condemnation  of  human 
to 
successful 
transitions 
to 
in  which 
until  there  is  an  elected  Government.  We  therefore 
welcome  the  NTC  into  the  United  Nations  family  to 
represent the Libyan people during this session. 

The  chosen  theme  for  this  session  —  the  role  of 
mediation  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  —  is 
both  timely  and  pertinent.  It  is  timely,  given  the 
multiplicity  of  mediation  efforts 
the 
international community is currently engaged as part of 
an  effort  to  find  a  peaceful  solution  to  the  conflicts 
raging  in  various  parts  of  the  world.  It  is  pertinent  in 
that  forging  international  peace  and  understanding  is 
the raison d’être of this very body. 

In  order  to  maintain  momentum  in  governance, 
my  delegation  believes  that  countries  emerging  from 
conflict  should  also  commit  themselves  to  the  strict 
observance  of  human 
rights  and  national  and 
international humanitarian law, as well as of the values 
of accountability and transparency, guided by effective 
application of the rule of law. In this respect, I wish to 
reiterate  my  country’s  support  for  all  efforts  geared 
towards  assisting  countries  emerging  from  conflict  to 
make 
post-conflict 
rehabilitation, reconstruction and economic recovery. 

Allow me now to turn to another critical pillar of 
the  United  Nations  mandate,  namely,  sustainable 
development and the eradication of poverty. Now more 
than  ever,  our  global  citizenry  is  demanding  practical 
actions to address the global challenges we face. They 
believe  —  and  rightly  so  —  that  collectively  we  are 
equipped  with  enough  resources,  institutions,  policies 
and  lessons  learned  to  respond  effectively  to  existing 
and emerging global challenges. They therefore expect 
us to muster the requisite political will to find durable 
solutions to those challenges.  
For  them,  it  is  no  longer  acceptable  for  children 

to  die  from  HIV  and  AIDS  or  any  other  preventable 
disease  just  because  the  Agreement  on  Trade-Related 
Aspects  of  Intellectual  Property  Rights  hinders  access 
to  affordable  treatment.  They  do  not  accept  that  over 
113  million  children  have  no  access  to  primary 
education.  It  is  certainly  no  longer  acceptable  for 
people  to  die  from  cholera  and  other  waterborne 
diseases  when  affordable  technology  for  clean  water 
and  sanitation  exists.  Nor  is  it  acceptable  for  our 
people 
the  dire 
consequences  of  climate  change,  while  we  debate 
endlessly  instead  of  concluding  a  comprehensive, 
to  be  exposed 
to  continue 
A/66/PV.25
to 
11-51384 

3 
its 

to 
the  World  Trade  Organization 
Significant progress was made in that respect last 

September,  when  we  resolved 
take  effective 
measures to further strengthen support for and meet the 
special  needs  of  regions  and  countries  struggling  to 
achieve  economic  and  social  development,  including 
middle-income countries. Recent experience has shown 
that even that category of countries, which have made 
small gains in poverty reduction, are still vulnerable in 
the  event  of  further  global  economic  and  financial 
upheaval. 

The  limitations  imposed  by  our  fragile  economy 
and  the  landlocked  position  of  my  country,  Botswana, 
also call  for the speedy implementation of the Almaty 
Programme of Action, accompanied by renewed efforts 
to  level  the  playing  field  in  international  trade.  We 
must  muster  the  political  will  to  conclude  the  Doha 
Round  of 
trade 
negotiations as soon as possible. 

We as nations, individually and collectively, face 
the  greatest  challenge  of  our  time  —  the  uplifting  of 
humankind.  In  fulfilling  that  mammoth  task,  our 
greatest  hope  lies  in  our  ability  as  leaders  to  summon 
our courage and political will to do what is right. 

Let  me  conclude  by  reaffirming  Botswana’s 
commitment  to  working  with  other  Members  in  our 
common  endeavour  to  put  our  Organization  at  the 
service of humanity. 
the  General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic  of  Botswana  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

Mr.  Mompati  S.  Merafhe,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic  of  Botswana,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 



  Address by Mr. Mohamed Waheed, Vice-
President of the Republic of Maldives 
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

address  by  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mohamed  Waheed, 
Vice-President of the Republic of Maldives. 

Mr.  Mohamed  Waheed,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic  of  Maldives,  was  escorted 
the 
rostrum. 
The  President: 

in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mohamed  Waheed, 
I  have  great  pleasure 
to 
three  pillars  — 
A/66/PV.25 

legally  binding  climate  change  regime  to  curb  global 
warming and its effects.  

In  other  words,  our  people  want  us  to  do  more 
with  the  collective  resources  that  we  have  at  our 
disposal. 

The residual effects of the financial and economic 
crisis, coupled with ongoing uncertainties in the global 
economy  and  the  prevailing  high  cost  of  energy  and 
food,  have  compounded  the  setbacks  experienced  in 
the implementation of internationally agreed goals and 
commitments,  including  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals. We must ensure that sustainable development in 
all 
social,  economic  and 
environmental  —  remains  the  key  framework  for 
attaining a balanced approach towards development in 
our  countries.  In  that  context,  poverty  eradication 
should  remain  the  centrepiece  of  all  our  policies  and 
programmes.  
As  we  prepare  for  a  common  global  policy  on 

sustainable development in Brazil in June of next year, 
we are increasingly concerned about the negative trend 
the  negotiations  are  taking.  The  ongoing  climate 
change  negotiations,  the  failed  nineteenth  session  of 
the  Commission  on  Sustainable  Development  and  the 
ongoing  discussions  on  the  2012  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  continue  to 
expose 
deep 
countries. 
Unfortunately, 
the 
implementation  of  existing  commitments  and  threaten 
prospects 
sustainable 
development  regime.  We  believe  that  the  Rio+20 
processes present an excellent platform for all Member 
States,  individually  and  collectively,  to  muster  their 
resolve 
sustainable 
development. 

Similarly,  the  seventeenth  Conference  of  the 
Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention 
on Climate Change, to be held in South Africa later this 
year,  offers  the  international  community  yet  another 
valuable  opportunity  to  reverse  the  harmful  effects  of 
climate change on our planet. We must forge a spirit of 
cooperation  and  partnership,  including  through  South-
South 
partnerships, 
resource  mobilization  and  technology  transfer,  as  well 
as  capacity-building,  to  assist  countries  such  as  my 
own 
the  abundant  coal  reserves  for 
sustainable energy production in a manner less harmful 
to the environment. 
our 
undermine 
among 
divisions 
effective  global 
divisions 
those 
public-private 
towards 
the 
attainment  of 
for 
an 
cooperation, 
to  exploit 
4 

11-51384 
to 
speakers 
join  previous 


Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Maldives,  and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr. Waheed (Maldives): Allow me at the outset, 

Mr.  President, 
in 
congratulating  you  warmly  on  your  assumption  of 
office  to  preside  over  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-sixth  session.  Your  election  is  testimony  to  the 
growing  confidence  of  the international  community  in 
the ability and commitment of the smaller Members of 
this  Organization  to  play  an  increasingly  active  and 
responsible  role  in  the  United  Nations.  I  would  also 
like to take this opportunity to place on record our deep 
and  abiding  appreciation 
to  your  predecessor, 
Mr. Joseph  Deiss,  for  the  exemplary  manner  in  which 
he guided the work of the sixty-fifth session. 

Allow me also to convey my sincere felicitations 
to  the  Secretary-General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon,  on  his  re-election  for  a  second  term.  We 
remain  confident  that  his  experience  and  leadership 
will ensure that this Organization, in which so many of 
our hopes and dreams are invested, will be equal to the 
many  complex  challenges  facing  us  during  these 
tumultuous times. 
We  are  at  a  defining  moment  in  history.  Across 

and  North  Africa,  popular 
the  Middle  East 
pro-democracy 
away 
longstanding  dictatorships.  We  are  witnessing  the 
greatest  liberation  movement  since  the  fall  of  the 
Berlin  Wall.  But  what  is  most  striking  is  that  it  is 
happening  in  countries  with  predominantly  Muslim 
populations.  The  democratic  uprisings  across 
the 
Middle  East  prove  that  Muslims  yearn  for  democratic 
rights just as much as non-Muslims.  

For me, that is not surprising. After all, we are all 
human. We  all  feel  resentment  if  those  in  power  steal 
our  county’s  wealth.  We  all  feel  frustrated  if  we  are 
prevented from speaking our minds.  

In  the  fog  and  confusion  of  the  turmoil  we  are 
witnessing  in  the  Middle  East,  one  thing  stands 
abundantly  clear.  The  demand  for  human  rights  and 
democratic  values 
is  universal.  The  march  of 
democracy  is  inevitable.  And  the  argument  that  says 
Islam and democracy  cannot be united is shown to be 
foolish and patronizing.  

My  country,  the  Maldives,  in  some  ways  was  a 
harbinger of the Arab awakening. Our revolution began 
eight  years  ago.  Then,  in  2008,  presidential  elections 
sweeping 
uprisings 
are 
A/66/PV.25
brought  peaceful  closure  to  a  30-year  authoritarian 
regime.  Since  then,  we  have  had  our  difficulties 
consolidating  democracy.  There  are  many  hurdles  to 
overcome. 

But I am pleased to report that in the three years 
since  the  elections  Maldives  is  generally  stable,  safe 
and  successful.  I  do  not  want  to  sound  complacent. 
Democracy is a process, not an end goal. Freedoms are 
always threatened in one way or the other. A successful 
democracy  requires  more  than  just  the  separation  of 
powers.  We  also  need  free  media,  strong  institutions 
and a vibrant civil society. Above all, we need patience 
to realize the fruits that democracy brings. 

Nevertheless,  I  can  report  without  exaggeration 
that Maldives enjoys more freedoms today than at any 
other  point  in  our  history.  I  am  sure  that,  with  the 
support of the United Nations, the peoples of Tunisia, 
Egypt,  Libya  and  other  countries  will  also  enjoy 
democratic freedoms. 

We must counter the false perception that people 
must  choose  between  devotion  to  Islam  on  the  one 
hand,  and  the  full  enjoyment  of  human  rights  on  the 
other. We strongly believe in the compatibility of Islam 
and  human  rights  and  seek  to  do  our  part  to  promote 
understanding and tolerance. That is why we intend to 
organize, during 2012, a major international conference 
on progressive Islamic jurisprudence and human rights. 
With this conference, we hope to renew the concepts of 
peace  and 
inter-faith 
harmony in Islam. 
As we watch the changes in the Middle East and 

North Africa, it has become even more imperative that 
the  question  of  Palestine  be  addressed.  The  Maldives 
stands shoulder to shoulder with the Palestinian people. 
The  time  for  Palestine  to  join  the  international  family 
of  nations  is  long  overdue.  We  therefore  welcome  its 
application  for  statehood.  The  Maldives  calls  on  all 
Members  to  support  the  recognition  of  a  Palestinian 
State, living side by side and at peace with the State of 
Israel. While recognizing the rights of the Palestinians, 
we  also  value  and  support  the  right  of  the  people  of 
Israel to live in peace and security. 
last  week 

Maldives  acceded 
the 
International  Criminal  Court.  Maldives  believes  that 
human  rights  must  be  protected  at  the  national  and 
international  levels  alike.  We  are  pleased  to  join  a 
growing  alliance  of  States  that  stand  firmly  against 
tolerance,  coexistence  and 
the  Rome  Statute  of 
We  are  proud 
to  announce 
that 
to 
11-51384 

5 

A/66/PV.25 

those  who  believe  they  can  violate  human  rights  with 
impunity.  In  our  globalized  world,  those  who  trample 
human  rights  or  deny  basic  freedoms  will  be  held 
accountable.  I  am  proud  that  the  Maldives  has  now 
taken  its  rightful  place  as  a  defender  of  international 
law and human rights. 

As  a  small  island  State,  we  understand  that  our 
means  are  modest.  Nevertheless,  we  are  proud  to 
contribute  to  United  Nations  efforts  to  promote  peace 
and security. In this regard, we are pleased to note that 
following the approval of our Parliament, the Maldives 
is  looking  forward  to  becoming  engaged  for  the  first 
time in United Nations peacekeeping efforts around the 
world. 

As  a  newly  graduated  least  developed  country 
(LDC), we welcome the international support we have 
received in our transition. Our graduation from LDC to 
middle-income status has not been easy. Based on our 
experience,  I  would  like  to  say  that  the  international 
community  must  continue  to  help  States  make  a 
smooth transition from LDC status. We must not allow 
graduation  from  LDC  status,  and  the  removal  of 
support  that  comes  with  it,  to  undermine  a  country’s 
progress and development. 

The Maldives has spared no effort in highlighting 
the  growing  threats  posed  by  climate  change.  Our 
nation is just one and a half metres above sea level. For 
us, climate change is no vague or abstract menace, but 
a  clear  and  present  danger  to  our  very  existence  as  a 
nation-State.  Over 
the  world  has 
experienced  an  increase  in  natural  and  man-made 
disasters,  which  compels  us  to  address  the  effects  of 
climate change with more resolutely and urgently. It is 
becoming  increasingly  evident  that  the  international 
community needs to be better prepared and equipped to 
address  the  challenges  of  disaster  preparedness  and 
response. 

Cutting  global  carbon  dioxide  emissions  to  a 
safer level — below 350 parts per million — is not just 
an  environmental  issue.  It  is  also  an  issue  of  national 
security. We  view  the  cutting  of  carbon  emissions  not 
as  a  burden  but  rather  as  an  opportunity  —  an 
opportunity  not  just  to  protect  the  climate,  but  also  to 
create  new  jobs  and  grow  our  economies.  For  these 
reasons,  Maldives  is  proud  to  announce  that  we  will 
dedicate  a  minimum  of  2  per  cent  of  our  total 
Government  revenue  to  investments  in  renewable 
energy.  
the  past  year, 
From 
the 
forward 
to 
We 
look 
the  day  when 
the  very  beginning, 

the 
international  community  will  adopt  a  legally  binding 
climate  treaty.  We  welcome  the  incorporation  of  the 
political  pledges  contained  in  the  Copenhagen Accord 
into  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate Change process in Cancún. In Durban, we look 
forward  to  helping  to  advance  the  process  so  that  we 
can  reach  the  elusive  prize  of  an  agreement  that 
protects  the  climate  and  the  interests  of  vulnerable 
nation-States. 

sustainable 
development  of small island developing  States (SIDS) 
has  been  inextricably  linked  to  the  Rio  process. 
Unfortunately,  the  objectives  defined  in  the  Barbados 
Programme of Action and the Mauritius Strategy have, 
like  the  goals  expressed  in  the  Rio  Declaration  on 
Environment and Development, gone largely unmet. 

Now,  as  we  set  the  goals  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development,  we  must 
include in the agenda a serious review of the progress 
made by the international community in addressing the 
sustainable development challenges facing small island 
developing  States.  The  Maldives  hopes  that  Rio  2012 
will  provide  a  platform  and  create  the  necessary 
impetus  to  radically  reform  international  support  for 
SIDS.  This  should  pave  the  way  for  establishing  a 
SIDS  category  based  on  objective,  transparent  and 
consistent criteria.  

We  must  also  analyse  and  identify  the  particular 
challenges and needs of SIDS, which are different from 
those  of  other  developing  countries.  We  must  further 
ensure that United Nations programmes are redesigned 
to  assist  with  those  particular  challenges.  Maldives 
believes that three issues should form some of the key 
pillars to be discussed and acted upon in Rio next year. 
They  are,  first,  the  reform  of  United  Nations  support 
for  the  sustainable  development  of  SIDS,  secondly,  a 
political declaration and strategy to give impetus to the 
roll-out  and  mobilization  of  renewable  energy  and 
green  technologies,  and  lastly,  improvements  in  the 
integration  of  sustainable  development  principles  into 
international  and  domestic  policy  at  strategic  and 
project levels alike. 

We  are  deeply  concerned  by  the  dire  food  crisis 
in the Horn of Africa. As the United Nations, we must 
come 
these 
challenges  and  ensure  that  we  work  to  protect  the 
to  find  global  solutions 
together 
to 
6 

11-51384 


rights  of  those  who  are  most  vulnerable,  especially 
women and children.  

As  a  country  that  derives  its  livelihood  from  the 
ocean, we are also concerned by the growing threat of 
piracy  in  the  Indian  Ocean. We  will  continue  to  work 
with  the  international  community  in  addressing  this 
growing menace so as to make our maritime areas safe 
for international shipping and trade. 

The Maldives looks forward to a time when every 
country  will  be  democratic,  every  nation  will  be  free 
and  the  values  that  underpin  this  great  institution  can 
finally be realized everywhere. Through the institutions 
of  the  United  Nations,  we  look  forward  to  continuing 
to  promote  equity,  fairness  and  the  protection  of  the 
most vulnerable, regardless of where they live or what 
religion they practise. 

Only through the United Nations can we hope to 
forge  an  agreement  that  protects  our  climate  —  a 
prerequisite  for  all  of  our  future  progress  and 
development. In this volatile and ever-changing world, 
there  is  one  institution  that  provides  the  stability  of 
continuity,  and  that  is  the  United  Nations. The  United 
Nations is more important today than ever before. 
the  General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic  of  Maldives  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made. 

Mr.  Mohamed  Waheed,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic  of  Maldives,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.  
The  President:  On  behalf  of 



  Address by Mr. Joseph Boakai, Vice-President 
of the Republic of Liberia 
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

address  by  the  Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of 
Liberia. 

Mr.  Joseph  Boakai,  Vice-President  of 
the 
Republic of Liberia, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  President: 

in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Joseph  Boakai,  Vice-
President of the Republic of Liberia,  and inviting him 
to address the Assembly.  
 Mr. Boakai (Liberia): Liberia congratulates you, 
Mr. President, on your election to the important office 
of President of the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth 
session. We are confident that you will steer the work 
I  have  great  pleasure 
A/66/PV.25
of this session in a manner which brings pride to your 
great  country,  the  State  of  Qatar.  Mr.  President,  we 
wish you well and pledge Liberia’s full support to you 
in pursuit of the priorities which you have identified. 
Let  me  also  pay  tribute  to  your  predecessor,  His 

Excellency  Joseph  Deiss  of  Switzerland,  for 
the 
effective  manner  in  which  he  conducted  the  affairs  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-fifth  session.  His 
sound  and  outstanding  leadership  enabled  the  session 
to register many achievements. 
We  warmly  congratulate  the  Secretary-General, 

His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  on  his  unanimous 
re-election,  and  extend  the  highest  commendation  to 
him  for  his  vision  and  foresight,  and  for  the  tireless 
efforts  with  which  he  continues  to  administer  the 
Organization.  We  embrace  the  priorities  which  he  has 
set  for  his  second 
term,  which  are  centred  on 
sustainable development. 
It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to  welcome  and 

congratulate  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan  upon  its 
admission as the 193rd Member of the United Nations 
and  to  assure  it  of  Liberia’s  friendship,  support  and 
solidarity. 

The theme chosen for this  year’s general debate, 
“The role of mediation in the settlement of disputes by 
peaceful  means”,  could  not  have  been  selected  at  a 
more  opportune  time.  Communities  within  our  world 
continue to be polarized by conflicts which have their 
roots  in  political  marginalization  and  socio-economic 
inequities.  Despite  global  interdependence,  inter-State 
relations  are  still  constrained  by  divergent  ideological 
convictions  and  structural  inequalities  in  the  global 
economic  system.  These  have  resulted  in  divisions 
which  undermine  our  efforts  to  move  as  one  global 
community towards sustainable development. 

Mediation,  as  part  of  preventive  diplomacy,  is 
indeed  a  powerful  dispute-resolution  mechanism.  The 
United  Nations  has  a  central  role 
in  promoting 
mediation in pursuit of peace. The good offices of the 
Secretary-General  remain  critical  to  the  mediation 
efforts of the United Nations. Regional and subregional 
organizations  are  assuming  an  increasingly  active  and 
complementary  role  in  mediation  and  the  peaceful 
settlement of  disputes. These initiatives  must not only 
be  acknowledged  and  encouraged  but  also  supported 
by the global community. 
11-51384 

7 

intervened 
to  restore  Liberia 
A/66/PV.25 

As  a  post-conflict  country,  Liberia  has  benefited 

immensely  from  numerous  mediation  efforts 
that 
include  national,  regional  and  international  initiatives 
aimed  at  restoring  and  maintaining  stability  in  the 
country. Our experience leads us to suggest that greater 
emphasis  be  placed  on  preventive  measures,  and  that 
the  tools  of  mediation  be  employed  as  soon  as  early 
warning  signs  of  conflict  emerge.  The  benefits  of 
establishing  an  early-warning  system  that  will  deal 
with  potentially  explosive  situations  before 
they 
degenerate into full-blown infernos are obvious. 
It  has  been  nearly  a  decade  since  this  body  and 

friendly  nations 
to 
normalcy. That intervention ended a disastrous 14-year 
civil war and created conditions for the deployment of 
the  United  Nations  Mission  in  Liberia  (UNMIL),  the 
establishment  of  a  transitional  Government  and  the 
democratic election of Africa’s first female President. 

Consistent  with  our  commitment  to  national 
recovery  and  post-war 
reconstruction,  we  have 
developed programmes and policies specifically aimed 
at  lifting  Liberians  to  higher  levels  of  productivity, 
reviving  basic  services,  restoring  infrastructure  and 
re-establishing the rule of law. Overall, we are making 
progress  on  all  of  these  fronts  and  building  a  more 
inclusive  society  in  which  the  full  potential  of  all  of 
our citizens can be harnessed. 

In  this  endeavour,  special  emphasis  has  been 
placed  on  the  empowerment  of  women  and  their 
participation in all aspects of the national endeavour. A 
well-crafted gender policy is enabling the Government 
to  address  the  concerns  of  women  and  girls.  We 
consider  the  creation  of  the  gender  entity  UN-Women 
to be an important positive development in the context 
of  the  United  Nations  effort  to  promote  women’s 
empowerment.  Liberia  pledges  its  fullest  support  for 
the success of this important body. 

Cognizant  that  youths  constitute  the  highest 
percentage  of  our  population,  we  are  committed  to 
developing  programmes 
that  will  strengthen  and 
empower them for future leadership. We hope that the 
action plan adopted by the recent United Nations High-
level  Meeting  on  Youth  will  garner  international 
support for our youth programmes. 

We  are  continuing  to  progress  in  our  efforts  to 
reform our security sector. Special attention is focused 
on  building  the  capacity  of  the  Liberian  National 
Police.  However,  we  remain  deeply  concerned  about 
of 
and 
of 
spirit, 
the  PBC 
configuration 
events affecting security in the Mano River Basin. That 
is  why  we  are  thankful  to  the  Security  Council  for 
extending the mandate of UNMIL. 

Liberia  is  pleased  to  have  been  placed  on  the 
agenda  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission  (PBC).  The 
Liberia 
the 
Peacebuilding  Support  Office  have  worked  with  the 
Liberian  Government  and  other  stakeholders 
in 
developing the Liberia priority plan, which focuses on 
security-sector  reform,  strengthening  the  rule  of  law 
and accelerating national reconciliation. 

I  would  like  at  this  juncture  to  thank  His 
Excellency  Prince  Zeid  Ra’ad  Zeid  Al-Hussein, 
Permanent  Representative  of  Jordan  and  Chairman  of 
the  Liberia  configuration,  and  the  configuration’s 
members  for  their  commitment  and  dedication.  In  the 
I  also  commend  His  Excellency 
same 
Mr. Eugène-Richard  Gasana,  Chairman 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission,  and  its  members  for  their 
support for the configuration. 

We  would  be  remiss  if  we  did  not  acknowledge 
the  significant  role  being  played  by  the  Economic 
Community  of  West African  States  (ECOWAS)  in  the 
maintenance  of  peace  and  security  in  the  subregion. 
ECOWAS  member  States  are  contributing  tangibly  to 
peacebuilding  in  Liberia  by  strengthening  capacity, 
especially 
technical  area.  We  are  also 
collaborating as a subregion in addressing the common 
problems of transnational organized crime, human and 
drug trafficking, and the illicit trade in small arms and 
light weapons. 

Liberia  is  poised  to  conduct  another  democratic 
election on 11 October. It will test our commitment to 
democratic  governance  and  peaceful  coexistence. 
Every action is being taken to ensure that the elections 
are  free,  fair,  transparent  and  credible.  We  invite  the 
international  community  to  observe  and  monitor  these 
elections. 
Despite  the  significant  gains  made  in  improving 

the living conditions of our people, we realize that far 
more  needs  to  be  done  to  fully  meet  their  aspirations. 
However, negative economic forces continue to hamper 
global growth. This situation has had repercussions for 
all  countries.  Although  the  resulting  effects  have 
impacted  developing  countries  generally,  those  most 
affected  are  in  Africa,  where  the  crippling  effects  of 
external  debt,  deteriorating  terms  of  trade,  decline  in 
investment and capital flows are debilitating. 
in 
the 
8 

11-51384 



the  outcome  of 
Mr.  Cancela  (Uruguay),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

Post-conflict  countries  are  even  more  severely 
affected.  This  is  why  we  have  particular  appreciation 
for 
the  Fourth  United  Nations 
Conference on the Least Developed Countries (LDCs) 
convened in Istanbul in May. We hope that the Istanbul 
Programme of Action will bring real change for LDCs. 

Food  security  remains  a  concern  for  many 
developing  countries.  The  World  Bank  estimates  that 
44 million people have slipped into poverty since June 
because  of  rising  food  prices.  This  unfortunate 
situation  should  be  addressed  with  urgency.  We  must 
act now, effectively and cooperatively, to roll back the 
adverse  impacts  of  rising  food  prices  and  protect 
communities. 

Our Government is responding to the current rise 
in  food  prices  with  immediate  action  under  the  policy 
Ending  Hunger  in  Liberia,  which  aims  to  strengthen 
the entire agricultural food chain from securing quality 
seeds for farming in productive lowlands to connecting 
farmers to local markets and eventually to regional and 
global  ones.  Simultaneously,  we  are  deepening  our 
partnership  with 
and  Agricultural 
Organization  of  the  United  Nations  and  other  United 
Nations  bodies 
in 
mechanized  agriculture  to  achieve  food  security  in 
Liberia. 

While  we  seek  food  security,  we  are  equally 
mindful  of  the  need  for  health  security.  Liberia  is 
among  countries  with  the  highest  maternal  and  child 
mortality  rates  in  the  world.  This  is  due  primarily  to 
the lack of skilled health workers, poor health delivery 
systems and inadequate medicines and supplies. This is 
why  we  welcome  the  new  initiative  of  the  Secretary-
General  aimed  at  improving  the  health  of  women  and 
children. 

I wish to state my country’s position on some of 
the  prevailing  situations  that  threaten  peace,  security 
and 
in  our  world.  The 
unresolved 
in  Somalia  presents  a  strong 
challenge to the United Nations in relieving the Somali 
people of the tragedy and cruelty they have endured for 
many  years.  The  phenomenon  of 
famine  has 
exacerbated  the  situation  in  that  country  and  affected 
livelihoods 
the  Horn  and  East  Africa.  Those 
circumstances necessitate an urgent call for action. 
international  cooperation 
investments 
the  Food 
long-term 
riddle 
for 
in 
A/66/PV.25
be 
they 
because 
condoned 
therefore  call  on 
Israel  and  Palestine 
the  Security  Council  are  critical 

The  question  of  peace  in  the  Middle  East  has 
hovered  over  the  world  for  far  too  long.  Liberia 
believes  that  whether  deliberations  take  place  in  the 
Security  Council  or  the  General  Assembly,  dialogue 
between the parties remains the most viable option for 
ending the stalemate towards an independent Palestine. 
We 
to 
demonstrate  a  concrete  commitment  to  engaging  each 
other  in  a  constructive  dialogue  that  will  achieve  the 
desired two-State solution. 

Suppressive  actions  by  Governments  to  frustrate 
the desire of their people for democratic reforms must 
never 
undermine 
international peace and security. Coherent and concrete 
actions  by 
in 
addressing those situations. Liberia welcomes the new 
leadership  of  Libya  under  the  National  Transitional 
Council  (NTC).  After  more  than  four  decades  of 
suppression, the Libyan people have high expectations 
for  the  restoration  of  their  freedom  and  liberties.  We 
encourage the NTC to move quickly to restore Libya to 
normalcy  by  establishing  an  inclusive  transitional 
Government that will organize democratic elections. 

As the United Nations grows in membership and 
experience, Liberia joins other nations in calling for a 
more democratic Security Council that reflects realities 
of  the  twenty-first  century.  Africa  expects  to  have 
greater  representation  in  a  reformed  Security  Council. 
More  broadly,  we  encourage  the  Secretary-General’s 
continuing effort to modernize the organization. 

Finally,  it  is  my  hope  that  Member  States  will 
work  together  to  advance  the  cause  of  our  common 
humanity, and make the world a better place in which 
to live. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Liberia  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

the 
Mr.  Joseph  Boakai,  Vice-President  of 
Republic  of  Liberia,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 



  Address by Mr. Danilo Astori, Vice-President of 
the Eastern Republic of Uruguay  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Vice-
President of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay. 
11-51384 

9 
A/66/PV.25 



to 
Mr.  Danilo  Astori,  Vice-President  of  the  Eastern 
Republic  of  Uruguay,  was  escorted 
the 
rostrum. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I have 

great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Danilo 
Astori,  Vice-President  of  the  Eastern  Republic  of 
Uruguay,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. 
Mr. Astori (Uruguay) (spoke in Spanish): I come 

to  speak  before  the  Assembly  representing  a  country 
that is celebrating the two-hundredth anniversary of the 
endeavour  that  led  to  its  birth  as  an  independent  and 
sovereign State, and that has preserved its aspiration to 
continue offering the international community its long-
standing  tradition  of  respect  for  the  principles  of 
international  law  and  its  ongoing  commitment  to  the 
cause  of  peace  and  peaceful  coexistence  among 
nations. 
Uruguay  takes  pride  in  its  calling  to  serve  the 

international  community 
in  promoting  dialogue, 
understanding  and  the  tireless  search  for  consensus  as 
the  most  appropriate  ways  for  interaction  among  its 
members.  It  was  through  the  application  of  those 
principles  that  we  recognized  and  welcomed  this  year 
the  193rd  Member  of  this  Organization,  the  Republic 
of South Sudan.  
Likewise,  in  March  we  recognized  the  State  of 

Palestine.  We  believe 
the  necessary 
conditions  have  been  met  for  this  recognition  to 
become universal and for the realization of a two-State 
solution,  which  Uruguay  has  supported  since  1947,  as 
well as for a path that reaffirms the right of Israel and 
Palestine  to  coexist  in  peace,  within  secure  and 
recognized  borders,  in  a  environment  of  renewed 
cooperation  and  free  from  any  threats  or  actions  that 
could jeopardize peace. 

The Palestinian people have a legitimate and full 
right to statehood. But the Jewish people also have the 
undeniable right to live in peace in a safe country, free 
of terrorist attacks — attacks that Uruguay has always 
rejected and condemned. 

Uruguay  is  proud  to  have  made  a  decisive 
contribution  to  the  creation  of  the  State  of  Israel, 
whose  hard-working  people  have  lived  up  to  the 
historic  vision  of  the  men  and  women  who  made  its 
creation possible. We are  convinced also that the time 
has come for the Palestinian people to show the world 
that  all  of 
that  violate 
While  we  are  guided  by 
their  decisive  contribution  to  peace,  development  and 
international cooperation. 

Once  again,  in  keeping  with  our  adherence  to 
international  law,  we  cannot  but  express  our  utmost 
rejection  of  coercive  measures 
the 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations, such as 
the economic, trade and financial blockade imposed by 
the United States against Cuba — a unilateral measure 
that  contravenes  not  only 
the  Charter  but  also 
international law as well as one of the most important 
principles  of  my  country’s  foreign  policy,  namely,  the 
peaceful settlement of disputes. 

We reject all manner of violence and all threat or 
use  of  illegal  force,  including  terrorism  —  an  unjust 
and unjustified crime, a cruel scourge that 10 years ago 
most painfully affected New York City. We express our 
condolences and solidarity to the victims’ families and 
the  American  people,  as  well  as  our  desire  and 
commitment  to  ensure  that  these  kinds  of  acts  never 
happen again, here or anywhere else.  

the  principles  of 
international  law,  the  promotion  and  protection  of 
human  rights  and  international  humanitarian  law  also 
figure  among  the  priorities  of  Uruguayan  foreign 
policy. This  a  reflection  of  the  country’s  political  and 
institutional  heritage,  that  of  deep-seated  democracy 
and the solid rule of law. 

Allow me to express in that respect my gratitude 
in  connection  with  the  honour  conferred  on  us  when 
Uruguay  was  elected  to  chair  the  Human  Rights 
Council.  We  will  strive 
this  vote  of 
confidence  by  working  every  day  to  strengthen  the 
multilateral system for the protection and promotion of 
human rights. 

Uruguay  has  an  outstanding  record  in  this  area, 
not  only  because  it  is  one  of  the  countries  that  has 
signed  the  widest  array  of  conventions,  but  also 
because  it  has  made  specific  contributions  in  diverse 
fields, including the defence of the rights of the child; 
the  mainstreaming  of  a  gender  perspective  into  all 
United  Nations  system  policies  and  programmes,  as 
reflected  in  the  establishment  and  implementation  of 
the United Nations Entity for Gender Equality and the 
Empowerment  of  Women;  and 
the  promotion  of 
fundamental freedoms, including, inter alia, freedom of 
expression. 
to  honour 
10 

11-51384 



During  the  course  of  its  mandate,  our  country 
intends to promote a new culture of dialogue on human 
rights  —  a  culture  that  favours  the  cooperation  of 
countries with the system, but also of the system with 
those  countries  that  need  assistance  to  improve  their 
internal  human  rights  situation. We  would  also  like  to 
enhance  the  Council’s  working  methods  and  promote 
the implementation of its instruments in a non-selective 
manner, avoiding double standards. We would also like 
to  strengthen  the  role  of  the  Office  of  the  United 
Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Human  Rights,  as  a 
key element of promotion and protection mechanisms, 
by  providing  the  resources  necessary  so  that  it  can 
effectively discharge the mandates that Member States 
are increasingly assigning to it. 
Uruguay is not indifferent to situations of armed 

conflict. That is why we have made tremendous efforts 
in  that  respect  and  will  continue  to  do  so  in  order  to 
maintain  and  strengthen  the  applicable  norms  of 
international humanitarian law. 

In  keeping  with  this,  we  believe  that  we  cannot 
ignore  mass  atrocities  such  as  genocide,  war  crimes, 
crimes against humanity and ethnic cleansing. Bearing 
in mind at all times the principle of non-intervention in 
the  internal  affairs  of  other  States  —  a  principle  that 
our country and region holds dear — we recognize the 
State’s primary responsibility to protect its population, 
as well as the importance of fostering cooperation with 
States  that  might  require  international  assistance  to 
fulfil  that  obligation.  The  aim  is  not  to  weaken  their 
sovereignty but, rather, to strengthen it. 

A  few  months  ago,  we  welcomed  the  Secretary-
General to our country, and we congratulated him once 
again 
re-election,  which  Uruguay 
enthusiastically  supported  from  the  outset.  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon expressed the recognition of the international 
community  of  one  of  the  most  relevant  aspects  of  our 
foreign  policy  over  the  past  several  decades:  our 
unwavering  and  committed  participation  in  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations.  With  approximately 
30 per cent of its operational defence forces devoted to 
these operations, Uruguay is the main troop contributor 
as  a  proportion  of  its  population  and  ranks  10th  in 
absolute terms. Uruguay thus places at the disposal of 
the  United  Nations  valuable  human  and  material 
resources in the context of work that is the flagship of 
this  Organization,  deploying 
situations  and 
discharging mandates of increasingly complexity. 
his 
on 
in 
A/66/PV.25
the 
its 
and 
reaffirms 
operations 
commitment 
to 

Given  the  complexity  of  current  international 
affairs, together we have begun an in-depth discussion 
of  the  United  Nations  peacekeeping  system.  We  are 
convinced that these missions will be sustainable only 
if  we  seriously  reconsider  the  resources  needed  for 
their  proper  functioning  and  update  the  conditions 
offered  by  the  system  so  as  to  ensure  that  the  United 
Nations  is  supplied  with  both  equipment  and  human 
resources. 

Today  peacekeeping  operations  are  the  most 
important  and  visible  aspect  of  United  Nations 
missions  and  the  one  that  most  exposes  the  United 
Nations  to  international  scrutiny,  often  positive  but 
sometimes negative. 

Uruguay 
to 
peacekeeping 
strictest 
enforcement  of  the  mandates  and  standards  regulating 
the conduct of field personnel. That is why, in cases of 
shameful and unacceptable misconduct — such as that 
perpetrated  by  five  members  of  our  military  deployed 
in  Haiti,  where  since  the  beginning  of  the  United 
Nations  Stabilization  Mission 
in  Haiti  we  have 
contributed tens of thousands of men and women, some 
of  whom  have  offered  their  lives  to  help  that  brother 
country consolidate peace and stability — we have not 
hesitated  to  act  with  the  utmost  severity  and  rigor  as 
the  circumstances  demanded.  Under  my  country’s 
military  justice,  those  five  individuals  accused  of 
military crimes have now been sentenced to prison and 
the case has been referred to the civil justice system to 
initiate  the  corresponding  criminal  case.  Thus,  within 
the  framework  of  respect  for  due  process  and  in  the 
utmost transparency and cooperation with the relevant 
United  Nations  entities,  we  will  stop  at  nothing  to 
uncover the truth and punish those responsible. 

international  peace  and 
security  has  also  driven  our  country  to  play  an  active 
role in the field of disarmament. Like many countries, 
Uruguay  has  firmly  promoted  all  initiatives  aimed  at 
eliminating  nuclear  weapons  and  other  weapons  of 
mass  destruction  and  at  regulating  the  control  and 
reduction  of  conventional  weapons,  which  every  year 
cause thousands of innocent civilian casualties. 

As  a  signatory  of  the  Treaty  of  Tlatelolco,  by 
virtue  of  which  Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean 
became  the  first  nuclear-weapon-free  zone,  Uruguay 
has  decisively  contributed  to  strengthening  both  the 
regional 
the 
Our  commitment 
regime 
to 
and 
the 
Treaty 
on 
11-51384 

11 
the 
topic 
thereby  avoiding 
the  selection  of  a 
A/66/PV.25 

Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons,  which 
is 
considered  the  cornerstone  of  the  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation regime. Uruguay has adhered fully to 
the five points identified by the Secretary-General. We 
believe  that  the  international  community  must  make 
the most of progress to date to advance firmly towards 
a world free from nuclear weapons. 

The  topic  of  this  year’s  general  debate  is  linked 
to  the  international  peace  and  security  agenda.  We 
therefore  welcome 
that 
underlines the pressing need to strengthen the political 
capacities  of  the  United  Nations.  Professional  and 
accurate  prevention  and  mediation  efforts  could  save 
thousands  of  human  lives  and  billions  of  dollars  of 
material  damage, 
loss  of 
generations,  growing  resentment  and  despair,  and  a 
vicious  cycle  of  violence  can  be  broken  only  by 
reconciliation. 

That is why we welcome efforts to strengthen the 
role  of  mediation  and  preventive  diplomacy  as 
mechanisms for dispute settlement. Such efforts can be 
carried out at several levels. There can be no doubt that 
the  United  Nations  is  the  natural  forum  for  such 
efforts,  given  its  intrinsic  legitimacy  and  impartiality. 
However,  it  cannot  be  denied  that  in  practice  such 
efforts  must  be  complemented  by  the  actions  of 
regional  entities  and  even  individual  countries,  which 
can  be  very  effective,  as  has  been  shown  in  several 
instances.  In  addition  to  the  strengthening  of  the 
aforementioned  capacities,  confronting  global  issues 
requires  the  development  of  community  spirit  that 
requires more than combined political will. A systemic 
approach is fundamental.  

Climate  change  is  probably  the  most  obvious 
example of an urgent global challenge. It is essential to 
immediately  start  enforcing  adaptation  and  mitigation 
measures  against 
since  a 
compromised  environment  will  limit  any  development 
effort.  We  are  aware  that  necessary  measures  require 
changes  in  modes  of  production  to  avoid  seriously 
compromising 
resource  distribution  within  our 
countries. 

The  Uruguayan  Government  strongly  supports 
negotiations  on  climate  change  under  the  United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
(UNFCCC).  We  take  this  opportunity  to  call  for 
accelerated  efforts 
to  ensure  a  second  stage  of 
commitments on reducing greenhouse gas emissions in 
its  adverse  effects, 

to 
justice 
criminal 
is  especially  vulnerable 
the  outcome  of  the  next  Conference  of  Parties  to  the 
UNFCCC. Furthermore, it is essential that progress be 
made  in  the  negotiations  on  chemicals,  especially  in 
the  context  of  the  current  exercise  on  mercury.  The 
sensitivity  and  importance  of  this  matter,  which  has 
greatly potential to harm the environment, requires the 
commitment  of  all  countries  in  order  to  successfully 
conclude the current negotiations. 

Another  priority  of  our  country  is  the  particular 
situation  of  agriculture  as  it  relates  to  the  climate 
change  phenomenon.  A  huge  number  of  developing 
countries,  including  my  own,  depend  on  that  sector, 
which 
its  negative 
consequences.  That  is  why  agriculture  requires  a 
special  chapter  in  the  framework  of  the  UNFCC 
negotiations.  

A new balance among many centres of power, the 
emergence of new States and intra-State conflicts have 
called  for  a  reformulation  of  peace  missions.  Global 
threats  include  climate  change  and  terrorism,  and  an 
international 
entity  has  been 
established.  Profound  political  changes  have  taken 
place  in  many  countries.  We  now  live  in  a  different 
world. But the changes do not affect only political and 
security  matters.  Enormous  transformations  are  taking 
place  in  the  global  economy  and  development  issues. 
Developed  countries  are  facing  serious  difficulties  in 
their  efforts  to  recover  from  a  deep  economic  crisis. 
New,  so-called  emerging  economies  are  playing  a 
growing  role  in  setting  the  direction  of  the  world 
economy.  In  recent  years,  the  need  to  establish  new 
regulations  and  global  agreements  has  become  ever 
more  apparent.  We  are  entering  a  new  era 
in 
international economic relations. 

In that context, we must remember that peace and 
stability  will  not  be  achieved  without  sustainable 
development.  This  year,  the  United  Nations  has  taken 
very  significant  steps  in  recognizing  the  link  between 
security  and  development,  which  is  born  not  from 
political declarations, but from empirical evidence, and 
is  a  sine  qua  non  of  capacity-building  at  the  national 
level.  

The  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development  (Rio+20)  will  provide  us  with  a  unique 
opportunity to renew the will to achieve the goals and 
commitments  contained 
the 
Johannesburg  Plan  of  Implementation.  The  quest  for 
long-term  development  must  be  based  on 
a 
in  Agenda  21  and 
12 

11-51384 
in 
that 
concept 
the  paralysis 


comprehensive  development 
takes 
economic,  social  and  environmental  dimensions  into 
account.  We  believe  it  essential  that  Rio+20  achieve 
tangible  results  that  benefit  our  citizens.  For  that  to 
happen, issues related to technology transfer, technical 
training and financing for developing countries must be 
taken into account.  

Food  security  is  a  fundamental  component  of 
Uruguay’s  development  agenda,  as  well  as  one  of  its 
national  priorities.  We  remain  convinced  that  the 
current critical situation is caused by structural causes 
that must be resolved collectively and urgently. We are 
particularly  concerned  by 
the 
negotiations  of  the  Doha  Round  of  the  World  Trade 
Organization.  That  ambitious  exercise,  one  of  whose 
objectives  is  the  reduction  or  elimination  of  trade 
distortions, could, by strengthening trade, promote the 
development  of  the  most  disadvantaged  countries  of 
the world. 

It  is  essential  to  eliminate  agricultural  subsidies. 
Countries  that  until  a  few  decades  ago  were  self-
sufficient  for  their  food  needs  now  need  to  import  a 
large part of what they consume, and they do so from 
countries  that  subsidize  their  agricultural  production. 
The  artificially  low  prices  of  agriculture  exports, 
sustained  for  decades  by  some  countries  through 
subsidies  and  other  trade-distorting  measures  and 
limitations on market access, are mainly responsible of 
the food security problems.  

Stimulating  investment  to  increase  production 
and  improve  productivity,  a  successful  conclusion  of 
the  Doha  Round,  as  well  as  the  transfer  of  adequate 
to  developing  countries,  capable  of 
technology 
achieving 
efficient 
are 
fundamental to obtaining food security. 
As  a  middle-income  country,  Uruguay  still  faces 

in 
serious  development 
eradicating 
production, 
poverty, 
introducing  technological  innovation  and  promoting 
renewable  energy,  to  name  but  a  few.  The  progress 
achieved  must  be  consolidated,  and  to  that  end  it  is 
vital  for  us  to  be  able  to  count  on  the  support  of  the 
international  community,  and  of  the  United  Nations 
system in particular. I must reiterate the urgent need to 
consider  in  depth  a  new  cooperation  modality  or 
scheme 
specific 
development  needs  of  middle-income  countries  like 
Uruguay. 
challenges,  particularly 
diversifying 
agricultural 
economies, 
account 
takes 
into 
that 
the 
A/66/PV.25
in 
to 
that 
international 
reason,  we  believe 
the  results  obtained 
the  most  challenging 
conference  will  be  held 

Uruguay  is  committed  to  the  reform  process  of 
the  Organization.  Through  the  Global  Governance 
Group,  we  have  maintained  a  proactive  attitude  in 
order  to  promote  a  strong  bond  between  the  United 
Nations  and  informal  discussion  forums  outside  the 
system. However, it is critical to lead by example. For 
that 
improving  global 
governance  is  first  an  internal  task  of  the  United 
Nations  system.  In  this  regard,  my  country  is  very 
satisfied  with 
the  pilot 
programme  of  Delivering  as  One,  whose  next 
intergovernmental 
in 
November in Montevideo. 
For all these reason, but above all because of its 

the  cause  of  peace  and 
firm  commitment 
is  seeking  a  seat  as  a 
multilateralism,  Uruguay 
non-permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council  in 
2016-2017. That would be our country’s second time in 
the past 66 years, after having served in 1965-1966. 
In  conclusion,  consolidating  multilateralism  is 

one  of 
tasks. 
Multiple  ongoing  crises  demand  immediate  response 
and  action.  The  rise  of  new  informal  forums  with  a 
limited number of members but a growing influence in 
international  governance 
additional 
collective  effort  to  strengthen  the  role  of  the  United 
Nations as a forum for political discussion in which all 
States are able to participate in decision-making.  

to  combine 
effectiveness  with  legitimacy  —  a  challenge  that  has 
become  increasingly  more  significant  as  globalization 
deepens. We need a new United Nations for the twenty-
first  century.  The  first  decade  of  the  century  has 
already run its course. History is harsh with those who 
cannot adapt to its challenges, and its consequences are 
bitter.  At  the  United  Nations,  we  are  responsible  for 
putting 
the 
answers 
international community. There is still time. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Vice-President of the Eastern Republic of Uruguay for 
the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Danilo  Astori,  Vice-President  of  the  Eastern 
Republic  of  Uruguay,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
A  permanent  effort 
is  required 
appropriate 
requires 
forward 
an 
to 
11-51384 

13 
A/66/PV.25 




to  warmly 
  Address by Ms. Aja Isatou Njie-Saidy, Vice-
President of the Republic of the Gambia 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Vice-
President of the Republic of the Gambia. 

Ms.  Aja  Isatou  Njie-Saidy,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic  of  the  Gambia,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I have 

great  pleasure  in  welcoming  Her  Excellency  Ms.  Aja 
Isatou  Njie-Saidy,  Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of 
the  Gambia,  and  inviting  her  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. 
Ms.  Njie-Saidy  (Gambia):  We  praise  Almighty 

God  for  making  another  gathering  of  world  leaders 
possible.  Allow  me 
congratulate 
Mr. Al-Nasser  on  his  election  as  President  of  the 
General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session. His proven 
leadership  and  competence  will  certainly  be  in  great 
demand  as  we  collectively  confront  some  of  the 
daunting  challenges  of  our  time.  My  delegation  also 
views  his  election  as  a  demonstration  of  the  strong 
commitment  of  the  brotherly  State  of  Qatar  to  the 
fashioning  of  a  stable  and  just  world  order.  He  will 
have our full support in the discharge of his mandate. 

His predecessor, Mr. Joseph Deiss of Switzerland, 
also deserves our praise for the sterling work he did as 
President of the General Assembly. We  wish him well 
in  his  future  pursuits. We  also  congratulate  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  on  his  reappointment  and  wish 
him  a  fruitful  second  term.  My  delegation  will  render 
him  all  the  support  he  will  need  as  he  helps  to  tackle 
the 
the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs)  and  the  resolution  of  conflicts  in  Africa, 
among others. 

The United Nations was founded as a world body 
primarily  to  maintain  international  peace  and  security. 
For  this  reason,  the  theme  chosen  for  this  General 
Assembly —  “The role of mediation in  the settlement 
of  disputes  by  peaceful  means”  —  is  particularly  apt. 
My  delegation  is  a  strong  believer  in  the  role  of 
mediation  as  a  conflict  resolution  mechanism  at  both 
the  national  and  international  levels. We  can  all  agree 
that  mediation  produces  results.  That  is  what  our 
experience  in West Africa,  my  own  part  of  the  world, 
tells  us.  At  the  national  level,  for  example,  in  the 
issues 
that  are  dear 
to  us,  especially 
14 

interventions  by 
Gambia  we  have  instituted  the  alternative  dispute 
resolution  mechanism,  among  other  mechanisms  we 
have in place, with a view to settling disputes between 
and among our peoples and institutions. 

For  us  in  Africa,  the  mediation  of  conflicts, 
particularly  with  a  view  to  amicably  resolving  them, 
has  always  been  part  and  parcel  of  our  rich  cultural 
heritage  and  customary  law.  We  must  revive  those 
time-honoured  dispute-resolution 
traditions  of  our 
forebears.  Experience  has  also  shown  that  with  strong 
regional  and  subregional  leadership  many  of  the 
intractable  civil,  political  and  electoral  conflicts  that 
beset  and  plague  Africa  could  certainly  be  resolved 
through mediation.  

Regional  ownership  of  mediation  processes  is 
also essential. For example, recent conflicts in Guinea 
and  Guinea-Bissau  were  all  resolved 
through  a 
combination  of 
the  Economic 
Community of West African States, the African Union 
(AU)  and  the  United  Nations.  We  must  therefore 
always give mediation a chance before resorting to the 
use  or  threat  of  the  use  of  force.  The  international 
community  must  give  priority  to  mediation  in  any 
conflict before it threatens military invasion or outright 
military 
intervention  without  giving  mediation  a 
chance. It costs less to mediate — we all agree — than 
to  launch  a  full-scale  military  intervention,  only  to 
have to come back again and rebuild and reconstruct. 

Over  the  past  decade,  the  leadership  of  West 
Africa,  in  close  collaboration  with  the  international 
community,  has  invested  great  material  and  human 
resources to bring the conflicts that affected that region 
to  peaceful  ends.  Today,  the  region  enjoys  relative 
peace, but that does not mean that spoilers have given 
up attempts to derail the peace. We must be vigilant at 
all  times.  For  example,  the  evils  of  drug  trafficking, 
piracy,  and  the  trafficking  of  illicit  goods  and  arms 
have  reared  their  ugly  heads  across  our  subregion  of 
West Africa. The nature and extent of those crimes call 
for  swift  international  action  to  nip  them  in  the  bud 
before it is too late.  

All  these  crimes  feed  on  each  other  and  sow  the 
seeds  of  terror,  economic  sabotage  and  indeed  the 
collapse  of  social  order.  We  must  therefore  pool  our 
resources  in  the  areas  of  detection,  surveillance,  law 
enforcement  and  prosecution  in  order  to  deny  the 
culprits safe havens. In order to do that, we must come 
together and agree on a framework for cooperation, of 
11-51384 
and 
leaders 
in 
regional 
subregional 
to  contribute 
its  magnanimity 


course with the support of the international community. 
We look forward to greater United Nations engagement 
with 
and 
organizations in stamping out those menaces. 

The  Gambia  will  always  be  an  agent  of  peace 
through  mediation  and  shuttle  diplomacy  in  West 
Africa  and  beyond. As  we  have  done  in  the  past,  we 
will support all efforts aimed at the peaceful resolution 
of conflicts and disputes within our subregion. We will 
also  continue 
to  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  missions  around  the  world,  as  we  have 
already done. 

With  strong  African  leadership,  we  continue  to 
witness the amicable resolution of many civil conflicts 
that  plague  the  continent.  The  key  lesson  in  most  of 
those  situations  is  early  intervention  by  leaders  who 
mediate between stakeholders. Regional leaders should 
always be put at the forefront of mediation efforts.  
For that reason, we salute the untiring leadership 

of  the  African  Union  in  bringing  about  peace  in  the 
Sudan.  We  equally  salute  the  leadership  of  the  Sudan 
the 
for 
Comprehensive  Peace  Accord,  which 
the 
independence  of  South  Sudan.  My  delegation 
encourages  both  sides  to  invest  in  their  shared  future 
through a negotiated settlement of the pending issues.  

Let  me  also  take  this  opportunity  to  encourage 
our  brothers  in  Guinea  and  Niger,  after  successful 
democratic  transitions,  to  bury  the  hatchet  and  move 
forward  as  united  peoples.  National  reconciliation 
efforts should be diligently pursued by all stakeholders. 
We  therefore  call  on  the  international  community  to 
render  them  all  the  support  they  need  as  they  try  to 
bring peace and development to their countries. 

As a developing country, like all others  we have 
our  eyes  set  on  the  countdown  to  2015,  a  landmark 
year  for  all  of  us.  The  Gambia  and  the  entire 
international  community  have  only  a  few  more  years 
before  we  can  tell  how  many  of  the  MDGs  we  have 
met. What is evident from all the reviews, however, is 
that we are surely on track to meet some of the MDGs 
but still struggling to meet others. We know for certain, 
for example, that the critical element for achieving all 
MDGs  on  the  target  date  will  remain  international 
donor  support  and  collaboration.  We  have 
just 
embarked  upon  our  new  programme  for  accelerated 
growth  and  employment,  which  is  our  blueprint  for 
development  in  the  Gambia  for  2012-2015,  which  we 
implementing 
led 
to 
A/66/PV.25
from 
which 
suffered 
earnestly  believe  will  be  generously  supported  by  all 
our development partners and friends. 

It  is  no  secret  that  the  ongoing  financial  and 
economic  crisis,  worsened  by  market  volatility,  is 
taking a huge toll on the meagre economic gains of our 
fragile  economies.  In  view  of  our  situation  as  least 
developed  countries  and  of  the  vulnerabilities  that  we 
continue  to  encounter,  it  is  urgent  that  we  all  support 
the  implementation  of  the  Istanbul  Programme  of 
Action.  We  must  not  allow  it  to  suffer  the  fate  of  its 
predecessor, 
weak 
implementation.  

It  is  our  hope  that  our  partners  from  the  North 
will  do  all  in  their  power  to  support  the  enhancement 
of  our  productive  capacities.  We  also  call  on  the 
emerging  economies  of  the  South  to  enhance  their 
cooperation  with  us  in  ways  that  will  render  true 
meaning to South-South cooperation. My delegation is 
ready  at  all  times  to  forge  meaningful  partnerships 
across  the  North  and  South  in  order  to  bring  food 
security  to  our  people,  tackle  youth  unemployment 
through education and skill development, and enhance 
the  quality  and  coverage  of  our  health-care  delivery 
systems.  

In  addition,  we  have  to  revisit  the  various 
programmes  and  strategies  adopted  by  the  Food  and 
Agricultural  Organization  of  the  United  Nations  and 
other  global  forums  in  order  to  comprehensively 
address 
food  security  needs  of  developing 
countries.  The  small-scale  farmer  —  including  the 
female  farmer  —  must  be  placed  at  the  centre  of  the 
new Green Revolution. 

The impact of climate change continues to pose a 
formidable  challenge  to  all  of  us.  The  solutions  to 
reversing  the  negative  impacts  of  climate  change 
through  adaptation  and  mitigation  initiatives  are  well 
known. Our problem today is the refusal of the biggest 
polluters  to  assume  their  responsibilities  in  reversing 
the  negative  trends  of  climate  change  occasioned  by 
human  activity.  We  cannot  afford  to  be  in  denial  for 
long. The science is solid and there for all to see, and 
the solutions are very clear, so let us embrace them by 
fulfilling our international obligations.  

The  2012  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable Development (Rio+20) should be about the 
implementation  of  commitments  and  not  about 
reneging  on 
the 
announcement of workable initiatives and not about the 
them.  It  should  also  be  about 
the 
11-51384 

15 

be 
about 
should 
ultimately 
A/66/PV.25 

repackaging  of  previous  unfulfilled  commitments. 
Rio+20 
binding 
commitments.  Let  us  bequeath  to  our  children,  and 
their  children  an  Earth  that  is  resilient  and  a  better 
world for them. 

My  delegation  would  like  to  congratulate  the 
delegation  of  Libya,  especially  the  leadership  of  the 
National  Transitional  Council,  on  being  steadfast  in 
their drive to rescue Libya from the brink of the abyss. 
We have faith in that leadership and are convinced that 
it  will  institute  the  necessary  reforms  that  the  Libyan 
people have so valiantly fought for. As Libya embarks 
on the crucial task of reconciliation, reconstruction and 
nation  building,  we  —  as  the  first African  country  to 
have  officially  announced 
its  recognition  of  and 
support for the National Transitional Council — would 
like  to  assure  the  Libyan  leadership  of  our  full 
collaboration and solidarity at all times. 

The conflicts in the Middle East, both recent and 
long-standing,  require  fresh  and  honest  mediation 
efforts  with  a  view  to  stabilizing  the  region  once  and 
for  all. The  disorderly  change  that  is  sweeping  across 
the  region  is  a  cause  for  concern  as  livelihoods  are 
shattered  and  industries  like  tourism  are  destroyed, 
thereby  creating  more  unemployment  and  entrenching 
endemic  poverty.  With  regard  to  the Arab  Spring,  my 
delegation  fully  supports  and  hereby  salutes 
the 
leadership  role  of  the  League  of  Arab  States,  the 
Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation  and  the  Gulf 
Cooperation  Council  in  finding  peaceful  resolution  to 
those  conflicts  through  mediation,  diplomacy  and 
brotherhood.  

In  the  same  vein,  we  salute  the  role  the AU  has 
been  playing  in  bringing  to  an  end  some  of  the  most 
violent  conflicts  in  human  history  on  the  African 
continent through mediation and in some cases through 
military  intervention  as  a  last  resort.  We  have  used 
former  Heads  of  State  as  mediators  in  Africa  and  in 
councils  of  the  wise,  and  some  of  those  efforts  have 
proven to be very successful. 

One of the most intractable conflicts of our time 
is the Israeli-Palestinian conflict. The sad reality is that 
numerous  United  Nations  resolutions  continue  to  be 
flouted.  The  daily  killing,  collective  punishment  and 
humiliation  of  Palestinians  are  going  on  unabated. 
Denial  of  humanitarian  assistance,  essential  medical 
supplies and construction materials to Palestinians has 
become  the  norm.  For  that  reason,  my  delegation  not 
to  resolve 
to  encourage  and  support 
only  supports  but  recognizes  an  independent  and 
sovereign  Palestinian  State  within  the  confines  of  the 
1967  borders.  An  independent  Palestinian  State  with 
full  rights  and  privileges  like  any  other  is  long 
overdue. That is the only guarantor of lasting peace in 
that region. 

The  Islamic  religion,  which  is  synonymous  with 
peace,  is  misunderstood  and  misrepresented  in  some 
quarters. We  condemn those who turn themselves into 
suicide  bombers  to  kill  innocent  people  or  conduct 
inhuman behaviour in the name of Islam, as such acts 
are contrary to Islamic values and teachings. Muslims, 
Christians,  Jews  and  peoples  of  other  faiths  must  all 
join hands, for once, in fighting terrorism of all shades. 
We must also be tolerant and indeed respectful of each 
other,  no  matter  our  beliefs,  and  live  side  by  side  in 
peace and harmony as one human race and one human 
family. 
In the  case of Syria, we call on the international 

the  Syrian 
community 
Government  and  people 
internal 
problems  through  diplomacy  and  peaceful  means. 
Poverty  should  not  be  a  pretext  for  violent  and 
disorderly  change  of  Government 
in  developing 
countries. 

The  need  for  constructive  dialogue  in  finding 
lasting and timely solutions to transboundary problems, 
wherever  they  exist,  is  more  urgent  today  than  ever 
before.  Let  us  avoid  postponing  the  search  for  a 
permanent  solution  to  the  decades-old  conflict  in  the 
Nagorno Karabakh region. It is the responsibility of the 
international  community  to  work  with  a  greater  sense 
of  urgency  to  address  the  Nagorno  Karabakh  conflict 
without further delay. 
to 

demonstrate 
inhumanity  of 
maintaining  the  decades-old  embargo  imposed  on  that 
friendly  country.  The  embargo  is  a  manifestation  of 
intolerance of other people’s right to a political system 
of  their  choice.  There  is  universal  agreement  that  the 
embargo needs to come to an end without precondition 
and  be  replaced  with  good-neighbourliness,  tolerance 
and respect for the legitimate right of Cubans to have a 
political  system  of  their  choice.  We  therefore  once 
again  call  on  the  United  States  of America  to  lift  the 
sanctions and embargo on Cuba now. 
The  case  of  Taiwan  deserves  better  scrutiny  by 

the international community. Taiwan, with a population 
The  developments 
the  world 
in  Cuba 
continue 
their 
to 
the 
16 

11-51384 
in 
to  attend 
the  Asia-Pacific 


of  23  million  people,  continues  to  play  an  active  and 
positive  role  on  the  international  stage.  In  a  highly 
integrated  and  interconnected  world,  almost  all  issues 
demand  the  full  participation  of  and  cooperation 
among all nations. Taiwan’s efforts in promoting peace, 
region,  deserve 
particularly 
commendation  and  further  encouragement  by 
the 
General Assembly.  

For  example,  over  the  past  three  years,  Taiwan 
has  engaged  mainland  China  in  dialogue  on  a  wide 
range of issues  ranging from agriculture and health to 
intellectual  property 
rights  and  economic  and 
commercial  cooperation,  among  others.  Furthermore, 
since  2009  Taiwan  has  been  invited  by  the  World 
Health  Organization 
the  World  Health 
Assembly (WHA) as an observer. That practice and the 
related  arrangements  have  established  what  has  been 
termed the WHA model, which sets a useful precedent 
for Taiwan’s greater participation in the United Nations 
system generally. 

Given  that  Taiwan  is  today  one  of  the  leading 
technological and economic powerhouses of the world, 
its  participation  in  global  affairs  is  quite  relevant, 
bearing 
that  we 
collectively  confront. We  must  give  it  the  prominence 
that  it  deserves.  Issues  such  as  natural  disasters, 
terrorism, 
financial 
meltdowns and many others require the engagement of 
international  community, 
every  member  of 
including  Taiwan.  We 
the  United 
Nations  to  find  a  suitable  way  to  allow  for  Taiwan’s 
meaningful  participation  in  the  specialized  agencies 
and  mechanisms  of 
the  United  Nations  system, 
including the International Civil Aviation Organization 
and  the  United  Nations  Climate  Change  Conferences 
immediately. 

Reform  should  be  a  permanent  feature  on  the 
agenda  of  all  international  organizations.  Cosmetic 
reforms  or  the  deliberate  stalling  of  overdue  reforms 
seriously  undermine  the  effective  responsiveness  of 
organizations. In 2005, as we all remember,  a draft of 
reform  measures  was 
the  General 
Assembly, which led to reforms in management of the 
Secretariat,  human 
the 
creation  of 
the 
Peacebuilding Commission and the elaboration of new 
norms. 
resources  administration, 
the  Human  Rights  Council, 
therefore  urge 
introduced  by 
the  numerous 
epidemics, 
in  mind 
issues 
climate 
change, 
the 
A/66/PV.25
in  all 
for  example, 

The  then  Secretary-General  remarked  that  no 
reform  of  the  United  Nations  is  complete  without 
reform  of  the  Security  Council.  Let  us  not  delude 
ourselves.  The  Security  Council  urgently  needs 
comprehensive reforms. A major element in the reform 
of  the  Council  is  the  glaring  underrepresentation  of 
Africa, 
its  categories  of 
membership.  Africa  certainly  needs  to  be  adequately 
and  properly  represented,  and  we  will  not  give  up  on 
what  is  a  legitimate  demand.  What  is  even  more 
appalling  is  that  negotiations  are  progressing  at  a 
snail’s  pace.  Although  we  are  mindful  of  other 
positions, we are convinced that negotiations must lead 
to  a  just  outcome.  Security  Council  reform  is  long 
overdue,  and  the  lack  of  it  is  undermining  the 
credibility  of  our  Organization  and  the  legitimacy  of 
the Council’s decisions. 

In conclusion, my delegation would like to repeat 
what  we  said  before.  Reform  of  the  United  Nations 
must recognize the geopolitical realities of the African 
continent  and  its  peoples.  Africa  is  no  longer  the 
colony  of  any  country  and  must  be  respected  and 
treated as such. The system of veto power and flawed 
representation 
is  not 
acceptable, can no longer be tolerated and in fact runs 
counter to the spirit and letter of the basic principles of 
equality  and  fair  play  as  enshrined  in  the  United 
Nations Charter. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  the  Gambia  for  the 
statement she has just made. 

Ms.  Aja  Isatou  Njie-Saidy,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic  of  the  Gambia,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 
the  Security  Council 
in 



  Address by Mr. Edward Kiwanuka Ssekandi, 
Vice-President of the Republic of Uganda 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Vice-
President of the Republic of Uganda. 

Mr.  Edward  Kiwanuka  Ssekandi,  Vice-President 
of  the  Republic  of  Uganda,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to 
welcome 
the  United  Nations  His  Excellency 
to 
11-51384 

17 

A/66/PV.25 

Mr. Edward Kiwanuka Ssekandi, Vice-President of the 
Republic  of  Uganda,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.  
Mr.  Ssekandi  (Uganda):  Uganda  joins  other 

delegations  in  congratulating  Mr.  Al-Nasser  on  his 
election to the presidency of this body. My delegation 
has  confidence  in  his  ability to  steer  our  deliberations 
to  a  successful  conclusion.  I  wish  to  pay  tribute  to 
Mr. Joseph  Deiss  for  his  effective  stewardship  of  the 
work of the General Assembly during the past session. 

Uganda takes this opportunity to congratulate the 
Government  and  the  people  of  South  Sudan  on 
attaining statehood and becoming the 193rd Member of 
the United Nations. Uganda also congratulates Mr. Ban 
Ki-moon on his reappointment as Secretary-General. 

The theme of this session’s general debate, “The 
role  of  mediation  in  the  settlement  of  disputes  by 
peaceful means”, is most appropriate in the light of the 
conflict  situations  in  various  parts  of  the  world, 
including  Africa.  When  actualized, 
the  peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  saves  lives  and  property  that 
would  otherwise  be  lost  if  force  were  used.  Strategic 
interventions,  such  as  mediation,  are  necessary  to 
mitigate  conflict  situations  and  avert  crises 
that 
threaten  the  stability  not  only  of  nations,  but  also  of 
entire  regions,  with  adverse  effects  on  development 
and people’s livelihoods. Mediation is a necessary and 
essential tool for the peaceful resolution of conflicts, as 
it is aims to support disputing parties in the process of 
negotiating a mutual understanding or agreement. 
Uganda  has  consistently  advocated  an  enhanced 

role  for  subregional  and  regional  organizations  in 
conflict  prevention  and 
those 
organizations  are  involved  in  mediating  disputes,  they 
play a critical role in bringing about sustainable peace 
and  security.  It  was  against  this  background  that 
Uganda supported and sponsored resolution 65/283 on 
mediation  as  a  tool  for  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes.  The 
for 
consolidating  normative  mediation  efforts,  reinforcing 
mediation  support  activities  and  enhancing  the  role  of 
Member States. 
Uganda has been involved in various initiatives to 

bring  peace  to  the  Great  Lakes  region,  the  Horn  of 
Africa  and  the  African  continent  as  a  whole.  Our 
involvement  included  participation  in  the  Burundi 
peace  process  and  in  the  negotiations,  led  by  the 
Intergovernmental  Authority  on  Development,  on  the 
resolution  provides  a  basis 
resolution.  When 
the 
for 
the 
to 
support 
the  people 
Our  experience 
the  deployment  of 
Sudan  Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement,  which 
culminated in the birth  of  a new nation, South Sudan, 
which  is  now  participating  as  an  equal  partner  in  the 
community of nations. 

In  the  case  of  Somalia,  in  addition  to  our 
contribution  to  the African  Union  Mission  in  Somalia 
(AMISOM),  Uganda  continues 
the 
engagement  of 
the  Somali  Transitional  Federal 
Government  with  other  actors  so  as  to  promote 
dialogue in the context of the Djibouti Agreement and 
the Kampala Accord. In order to consolidate the gains 
realized on the ground, the United Nations and the rest 
of 
international  community  must  urgently 
strengthen  support  to  Somalia  by  means  of  capacity-
the  Somali  Transitional  Federal 
building 
Institutions; 
additional 
authorized 3,000 troops; the approval of a reliable and 
predictable  funding  mechanism  and  of  the  required 
aviation  assets  to  AMISOM;  and  the  provision  of 
urgent  humanitarian  relief  and  assistance  to  meet  the 
basic  needs  of 
through  quick-impact 
projects  in  such  areas  as  health  care,  water  and 
sanitation. 

in  conflict  prevention  and 
resolution in Africa is that if such efforts are to succeed 
and be sustainable, a number of factors come into play. 
First, peace initiatives should be led by the region, with 
strong support from regional organizations, the United 
Nations  and  other  relevant  actors.  Secondly,  it  is 
sometimes important to initially give priority to peace 
before  justice  in  order  to  strengthen  confidence-
building  between  parties.  Thirdly,  peace 
and 
reconciliation  mechanisms,  including  transitional  all-
inclusive  administrations,  need  to  be  established  to 
heal  the  wounds  of  conflict.  Fourthly,  post-conflict 
recovery  and  reconstruction  programmes  or  projects 
should  be 
to 
demonstrate the benefits of peace dividends. 
Mediation  is  a  worthwhile  investment.  It  costs 

as 
such 
than  other  undertakings, 
much 
peacekeeping  or  peace  enforcement.  In 
terms  of 
benefits,  effective  mediation  can  avert  unnecessary 
wars and their attendant consequences, such as the loss 
of life and property, and contribute to building capacity 
for  home-grown  solutions  to  address  conflict.  The 
mutual 
from 
mediation  between  parties  can  also  be  instrumental  in 
achieving  inclusive  political  and  other  arrangements 
following  the  conclusion  of  peace  agreements.  Once 
that  normally 
instituted 
simultaneously 
so  as 
confidence 
results 
less 
18 

11-51384 
to  contribute 
Uganda  believes 
the  parties  concerned.  The  support  of 


achieved, such arrangements have a positive impact on 
the  consolidation  of  peace  and  security,  as  well  as  on 
sustainable  post-conflict  reconstruction,  recovery  and 
development. 

that  potential  differences 
between  and  within  countries  are  better  addressed 
using  home-grown  solutions.  External  influences  or 
interventions  do  not  necessarily  offer  sustainable 
solutions to conflict. On the contrary, the latter tend at 
times 
to  a  cycle  of  destabilizing 
tendencies. 

It  is  therefore  important  that  the  involvement  of 
the  United  Nations,  the  international  community  and 
other  actors  take  full  account  of  the  interests  and 
concerns of all parties. Hence, there is a need for close 
coordination,  consultation  and 
information-sharing 
with 
the 
international  community  should  target  areas  mutually 
agreed  upon  with  the  parties  concerned.  It  is  also 
important  to  underscore  the  fact  that,  where  potential 
conflict  situations  arise  and  external  support  becomes 
necessary, the international community should provide 
a timely, adequate and robust response. 

It is equally necessary to build and strengthen the 
mediation  capacities  of  subregional  and  regional 
organizations.  Specifically,  in  the  case  of  conflicts  in 
Africa,  our  preferred  solution  is  peaceful  settlement 
through  mediation,  not  military  intervention.  In  the 
case of the Libyan crisis, the African Union (AU) has 
called  upon  the  National  Transitional  Council  to 
establish  an  all-inclusive  transitional  Government,  as 
proposed  in  the  AU  road  map  for  the  peaceful 
resolution of the Libyan conflict. 

Uganda would like to make a strong case to this 
Assembly  that  Africa  should  be  given  the  chance  to 
resolve its conflicts. Africa has strong political will to 
handle them, and any interventions should be aimed at 
supporting  African 
find  peaceful 
solutions.  It  is  therefore  imperative  that  our  partners 
recognize  the  existing  dispute  resolution  mechanisms 
of  the  regional  bodies  in  Africa.  I  also  call  upon  the 
United Nations to fully support Africa in that regard. 
Besides, the role of women in mediation must be 

appreciated  and  enhanced.  Experience  has  shown  that 
women can contribute a lot to efforts aimed at peaceful 
settlement  of  disputes  and  at  conflict  prevention  and 
resolution.  It  is  therefore  vital  that  women  become 
initiatives 
to 
A/66/PV.25
involved 
in  mediation  efforts  and 
increasingly 
processes. 

On  the  Israeli-Palestinian  question,  Uganda  has 
consistently called upon the Israeli and the Palestinian 
parties  to  muster  the  necessary  courage  to  negotiate 
and  reach  a  peaceful  settlement  based  on  a  two-State 
solution, that is, Israel and the State of Palestine living 
side by side  peacefully and within secure borders. We 
urge  both  parties  to  urgently  resume  negotiations  in 
order to reach a two-State solution that will guarantee 
durable peace. 

The  outcome  of  this  debate  should  include 
practical and pragmatic actions to address some of the 
challenges relating to mediation. These include, but are 
not  limited  to,  issues  involved  in  the  adequacy  and 
predictability  of  the  requisite  resources,  capacity-
building  at  the  national,  subregional  and  regional 
levels, 
the 
strengthening  of  coordination  and  collaboration  in 
mediation efforts and processes. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Uganda  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Edward  Kiwanuka  Ssekandi,  Vice-President 
of the Republic of Uganda, was escorted from the 
rostrum. 
involvement  of  women, 
and 
the 


  Address by His Royal Highness Prince Haji 
Al-Muhtadee Billah, Crown Prince of 
Brunei Darussalam  
 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Crown 
Prince of Brunei Darussalam.  

His  Royal  Highness  Prince  Haji  Al-Muhtadee 
Billah, Crown Prince of Brunei Darussalam, was 
escorted to the rostrum.  
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I have 

great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Royal  Highness 
Prince  Haji  Al-Muhtadee  Billah,  Crown  Prince  of 
Brunei  Darussalam,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the 
General Assembly.  
(Brunei 

Darussalam): On behalf of His Majesty and the people 
of Brunei Darussalam, I would like to congratulate our 
new  President,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz 
Prince  Haji  Al-Muhtadee  Billah
11-51384 

19 

large  and 
A/66/PV.25 

Al-Nasser. These are not only personal congratulations. 
We  also  congratulate  his  country,  Qatar,  our  fellow 
Member  of  the  United  Nations. We  greatly  appreciate 
its significant efforts to promote dialogue, consultation 
and  mediation  in  many  difficult  situations,  both  in  its 
own  region  and  far  beyond.  Thus  we  thank  the 
President,  as  its  representative,  and  warmly  welcome 
him  to  the  General Assembly  as  the  representative  of 
us all.  

We would also like to express our appreciation to 
his predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Joseph Deiss. His 
term  of  office  saw  another  impressive  contribution  by 
the  United  Nations  to  meeting  the  great  international 
challenges Members face in the first decade of this new 
century.  

Some  of  that  work  began  right  here,  in  this 
building,  with  our  efforts  to  reform  the  Security 
Council  and  revitalize  the  General  Assembly.  Other 
efforts  addressed  our  world  at 
the 
confrontation  between  essential  economic  growth  and 
critical environmental realities that it faces. Still others 
were aimed directly at the people we represent. Those 
efforts  addressed 
their  health  and  food  security; 
considered  their  personal  and  legal  status,  whether  at 
home  or  as  members  of  immigrant  communities;  and 
examined the systems of governance under which they 
live. 

This  is  a  fine  record,  and  we  thank  the  outgoing 
President for his leadership. He was greatly assisted in 
his work by Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. We offer 
the  Secretary-General  our  very  best  wishes  for  the 
coming  year. We  welcome  his  reappointment  and  join 
fellow  Members  in  thanking  his  staff  and  the  United 
Nations volunteer workers, peacekeepers and agencies 
for  all  of  their  efforts  in  many  extremely  difficult 
situations.  

It  is  a  tribute  to  their  work  that  one  of  the 
longest-running and most complex situations of all has 
been  resolved  this  year. As  a  result,  we  add  our  own 
words of welcome to the Government and the people of 
South Sudan as a new Member of the United Nations. 
We also commend all parties involved in the process of 
dialogue, negotiation and final resolution. At the same 
time, it is our deepest wish that these same sentiments 
may soon be expressed to the parties directly involved 
in  efforts  to  reach  a  fair  and  equitable  two-State 
solution to the situation in Palestine. 
We  still  adhere 
to 
so  directly, 
Nevertheless,  we 
increasingly  recognize 

The  President  of  the  Assembly  has  asked  us  to 
consider  the  role  of  mediation  in  the  settlement  of 
disputes by peaceful means. In doing so, we follow the 
direction  given  by  His  Majesty  the  Sultan  in  his 
address to the General Assembly in 1984, when we had 
the  honour  of  becoming  a  Member  of  this  great 
Organization.  In  outline,  it  committed  us  to  mutual 
respect  for  territorial  integrity  and  the  principles  of 
dialogue  and  negotiation  in  disputes,  no  matter  how 
long or how frustrating the process may be.  

that  principle.  We  give 
whatever practical assistance we can, whenever asked. 
We  do 
through  peacekeeping  and 
monitoring  efforts,  and  indirectly,  through  financial 
contributions  made  bilaterally  and  to  relevant  United 
Nations and regional bodies. In these ways, we seek to 
follow  the  commitments  made  in  our  first  General 
Assembly debate.  

that 
those  commitments  were  made  over  a  quarter  of  a 
century ago. Twenty-five years is a common definition 
of  a  generation  in  human  terms,  which  means  that  a 
new  generation  is  now  moving  into  positions  of 
authority.  Behind  it,  a  further  generation  is  now 
coming of age. It has no personal memory of the global 
situation  that  shaped  international  policy  in  the  Cold 
War  era. Although  both  generations  are  naturally  still 
influenced by those times and the leaders who brought 
them  to  this  point,  they  are  also  new  generations,  for 
whom the new century shapes world affairs. 

In  our  statement  to  the  General  Assembly  three 
years  ago  (see A/63/PV.10), we  outlined  our  approach 
to this by broadly setting out what are now regarded as 
the  challenges  of  this  new  century.  Some  involve 
security  in  all  of  its  forms  —  political,  physical  and 
economic. Others address the natural environment and 
the  effects  of  climate  change.  Still  others  raise 
questions  about  sustainable  development  and  many 
challenges arise from the concept of good governance, 
both nationally and in world organizations such as the 
World  Trade  Organization,  the  International  Monetary 
Fund,  the  Group  of  Twenty  and  even  the  United 
Nations  itself.  We  have  given  our  full  support  to  the 
great  institutions  of  which  we  are  members  and  will 
continue to do so. 

But  our  Government  has  emphasized  one  thing 
throughout  this  year  in  all  international  gatherings  we 
have been privileged to attend. It is not a change in our 
20 

11-51384 
We 
above 
all 
respect 
acknowledge  with  deep 


overall  approach;  it  represents  a  particular  focus.  It 
means that more and more we are trying to identify the 
challenges in basic human terms, because we feel that 
such  a  focus  relates  directly  to  the  wise  theme  the 
President proposed for this debate.  

that 
successful  mediation  has  always  been  a  cherished 
objective  of  the  United  Nations,  and  we  strongly 
support  that  ideal.  At  the  same  time,  however,  we 
maintain that no mediation can be successful unless the 
parties involved share common ground. 

What  concerns  us  is  that  the  dynamics  of  the 
twenty-first century have the potential to exclude many 
from this common ground. It will become the exclusive 
territory  of  great  unseen  globalized  forces,  whether  in 
the  market,  the  workplace  or  in  the  world  of  great 
decision-making forums. That development could be so 
divisive as to destroy any common ground.  
We  believe  such  common  ground  will  only  be 

created by ordinary people, as individuals and in their 
families  and  communities,  who  feel  that  they  are 
indeed  occupying  that  common  ground.  For  them, 
political  security  lies  in  the  principles  of  diplomacy 
among  all  nations,  especially  respect  for  each  other’s 
traditions,  values,  beliefs  and  ways  of  life.  Physical 
security  means  the  rule  of  law.  Economic  security  is 
food  on  the  table,  a  job  and  the  best  possible  support 
for health, education and old age.  
In  all  these  efforts,  we  have  felt  well  guided  by 

the 
the  United  Nations, 
the 
encouragement 
Millennium Development Goals and the confidence in 
the future that they give to all people. That, we believe, 
will lead us towards the common ground we are trying 
to discover. It will be reached when it is shared among 
the  most  powerful  of  industrialized  nations  and  the 
smallest  of  threatened island communities. The search 
for  common  ground  is  the  immense  task  of  both 
present  and  future  generations.  We  believe  that  only 
when  it  is  concluded  can  mediation  successfully 
perform the role suggested in the President’s theme.  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Crown  Prince  of  Brunei  Darussalam  for  the  statement 
he has just made. 
through 
towards  achieving 
it  provides 
A/66/PV.25

to  overcome 
that  under  his  able 
His  Royal  Highness  Prince  Haji  Al-Muhtadee 
Billah, Crown Prince of Brunei Darussalam, was 
escorted from the rostrum. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Hor  Namhong,  Deputy 
Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
International  Cooperation  of 
the  Kingdom  of 
Cambodia. 
Mr. Hor (Cambodia): At the outset, I would like 

to  join  previous  speakers  in  expressing  my  sincere 
congratulations 
to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Nassir 
Abdulaziz Al-Nasser on his election as President of the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session.  We  are 
confident 
leadership,  our 
deliberations  will  be  guided  towards  a  successful 
conclusion. 

I  would  like  also  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
warmly congratulate His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon 
on being unanimously chosen by the General Assembly 
to serve a second term as Secretary-General. The Royal 
Government  of  Cambodia  acknowledges  with  great 
admiration  his  outstanding  leadership  and  untiring 
efforts 
the  many  current  global 
challenges. 

Cambodia  warmly  welcomes  the  Republic  of 
South Sudan as a new Member of the United Nations. 
We will continue to dispatch more peacekeepers under 
with  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  to  help 
with  humanitarian  activities  and  demining  in  that 
friendly new State. 

We live in an interconnected world where global 
challenges  such  as  economic  and  financial  crises, 
climate change, energy and food security, terrorism and 
the  proliferation  of  weapons  of  mass  destruction, 
among  others,  have  become  increasingly  complex  and 
continue to haunt the entire world. 

The  global  economy  remains  somewhat  fragile, 
and  there  are  many  risks  and  challenges  to  a  durable 
exit from the crisis. The growth of the world economy 
has  decelerated  in  2011,  and  the  global  economy  now 
faces  three  major  challenges:  sovereign  debt,  slow 
growth and social instability.  

The  problem  of  unemployment  has  been  very 
severe  in  the  advanced  economies,  and  inflation  is 
emerging  in  the  developing  economies.  That  has 
created havoc in many parts of the world, as continued 
instability  in  the  financial  sector,  especially  in  the 
11-51384 

21 

and 
long-overdue 
instance,  Cambodia’s  economy 
robust  economies,  East  Asia  and 
A/66/PV.25 

United States and the euro zone, has dampened global 
trade.  That  has  an  effect  on  exports,  in  particular  of 
developing countries. Therefore, a wide range of policy 
responses 
reforms  must  be 
implemented to accelerate growth and bring the global 
economy out of the crisis. 

The  crisis  has  reaffirmed  the  importance  of 
reform  in  global  economic  and  financial  governance, 
including  strengthening  the  institutional  role  of  the 
International Monetary Fund.  
Asia has become an essential partner in the global 

economy  and  has  taken  the  lead  in  advancing  global 
recovery.  For 
is 
growing,  after  a  decline  in  2008  and  2009,  with  an 
expected  growth  rate  of  8.7  per  cent  this  year.  With 
strong, 
the 
Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations  are  well 
positioned to assume their responsibilities to contribute 
to addressing the global economic and financial crisis. 

Although  some  significant  successes  have  been 
achieved  in  attaining  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals 
in 
least  developed  countries  (LDCs),  will 
particular 
continue  to  face  many  huge  hurdles  on  their  path  to 
reach the MDG targets. 

Continued  economic  and  financial  instability  in 
the  developed  world  has  exacerbated  uncertainty  in 
funding  for  development  projects  in  poor  countries. 
Persistently  high  fuel  oil  prices  are  straining  every 
economic  aspect  of  developing  countries.  The 
worsening  food  security  situation  is  holding  back 
progress  in  reducing  malnutrition  and  child  mortality. 
The  burden  of  debt  repayment  constitutes  another 
major  challenge  for  the  LDCs  in  meeting  the  MDG 
targets.  

Faced with these tremendous challenges, poverty 
reduction  remains  the  highest  and  foremost  global 
priority. It requires steady economic growth and a more 
pro-poor policy. 

In  the  context  of  the  global  effort  to  meet  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals,  Cambodia  has  been 
listed among the 20 countries making the most absolute 
progress  on  the  MDGs.  Last  year  it  was  accorded  the 
2010 MDG Award by the MDG Awards Committee in 
New  York  for 
towards 
achievement of Goal 6. 
(MDGs),  most  developing  countries, 
its  outstanding  progress 
22 


There  is  no  doubt  that  climate  change,  with  its 
devastating  impact  worldwide,  has  become  a  constant 
threat  to  our  existence.  Drought  and  flooding  have 
become  more  frequent  and  more  severe  in  many  parts 
of the world, affecting millions of people. The current 
horrific  drought  in  the  Horn  of  Africa  represents 
another  most  painful 
tragedy  caused  by  global 
warming. The threat of climate change is a reality and 
a huge challenge for the global community. 

It  is  regrettable  that  many  of  the  promises  made 
during  the  Copenhagen  and  Cancún  meetings  of  the 
United  Nations  Climate  Change  Conference  to  assist 
developing countries cope with climate change remain 
to  be  delivered  in  a  timely  manner.  Now,  while  the 
world  is  facing  further  financial  turmoil,  let  us  not 
forget  that  actions  on  climate  change  cannot  wait. 
Climate  change  is  progressing  every  day,  triggering 
more 
frequent  natural  disasters.  The  developing 
countries are hoping for timely support for their efforts 
to address, adapt to and mitigate the effects of climate 
change  and  to  develop  clean  energy. They  call  on  the 
developed  world  to  honour  their  commitments  under 
the Copenhagen and Cancún conferences. 

The seventeenth Conference of the Parties to the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change  in  Durban,  South  Africa,  in  November  must 
not become another delusion but a place to demonstrate 
our  collective  will  to  share  the  responsibility  and  to 
achieve  a  real  breakthrough  in  facing  climate  change. 
While obstacles remain to achieving a binding accord, 
Cambodia hopes that the Kyoto Protocol, which is due 
to expire next year, will be extended during the Durban 
conference. 

Cambodia,  for  its  part,  successfully  launched  its 
own  initiative,  which  is  called  Cambodia  Climate 
Change  Alliance,  in  2009,  with  the  objective  of 
strengthening  our  national  institutions  to  deal  with 
climate  change  risks.  Cambodia  is  also  implementing 
numerous projects within the framework of the United 
Nations  Collaborative  Programme  on  Reducing 
Emissions  from  Deforestation  and  Forest  Degradation 
in  Developing  Countries  while  actively  promoting 
adaptation and mitigation measures through our project 
to  promote  climate-resilient  water  management  and 
agricultural practices in rural Cambodia. 

Food and energy security remain major issues of 
global  concern.  Although  the  recent  surge  in  energy 
costs  has  subsided,  the  price  of  fuel  oil  remains 
11-51384 
and  price 


extremely  volatile.  High  fuel  oil  prices  are  a  major 
burden  on  poor  countries,  which 
lack  financial 
resources  and  know-how  to  develop  alternative  and 
clean energy sources. As the world depends heavily on 
fuel  oil,  we  should  act  in  concert  to  prevent  unruly 
speculation 
instability,  which  have 
devastating  effects  on  developing  countries’  efforts  to 
reduce  poverty  and  meet  the  MDG  targets.  It  may  be 
time  to  consider  establishing  a  world  body  comprised 
of major fuel oil producers and consumers to ensure a 
reasonable price limit. The world should not be at the 
mercy of oil producers. 

A  more  holistic  approach  for  addressing  energy 
security  is  the  transfer  of  relevant  knowledge  and 
technology to assist developing countries in exploiting 
alternative  sources  of  energy.  Reduced  reliance  on 
fossil fuel will also contribute significantly to slowing 
the  pace  of  global  warming  and  climate  change  while 
reducing  emissions  of  the  harmful  greenhouse  gases 
produced by burning fuel oil. 

On  the  other  hand,  energy  security  is  closely 
linked to food security. Soaring fuel oil prices in recent 
years have not only caused food prices to rise but have 
also  reduced  land  devoted  to  agriculture  through  the 
change to production of bioenergy as an alternative to 
fuel oil. A balanced approach must be taken to address 
that  twin  problem.  Food  insecurity  is  also  caused  and 
aggravated  by  the  global  financial  and  economic 
meltdown and increasing world population. 

The  number  of  undernourished  people  in  the 
world  remains  unacceptably  high.  Global  population 
growth  will  inevitably  lead  to  increased  demand  for 
both energy and food.  

For  its  part,  Cambodia  is  doing  its  best  to 
contribute  to  world  food  security  by  intensifying  rice 
production  as  the  top  priority  of  Government  policy. 
More  and  more  rice  will  be  available  for  export. 
Cambodia is also seeking to establish an association of 
rice exporters under the framework of the Ayeyawady-
Chao Phraya-Mekong Economic Cooperation Strategy, 
comprised  of  five  rice-exporting  countries  in  South-
East  Asia:  Cambodia,  Laos,  Myanmar,  Thailand  and 
Viet Nam. The association will contribute to stabilizing 
the  food  market  and  preventing  speculation  in  food 
prices. 
threats 
to  humanity 
is 
convention,  which 
(spoke in French) 
With respect to global peace and security, one of 

today’s  gravest 
terrorism. 
Despite the enormous efforts made by the international 
community  to  prevent  and  combat  acts  of  terrorism, 
such acts continue to occur daily almost everywhere in 
the world. No country has been spared by terrorism. Its 
networks  comprise  a  vast  and  complex  web  of 
interlinked  criminal  activities, 
including  money-
laundering, weapons trafficking and organized crime.  
It is therefore time for us to consider whether the 

antiterrorism  measures  adopted  to  date  have  been 
sufficient.  Cambodia  fully  supports  United  Nations 
efforts to create a global coalition against terrorism. In 
that context, Cambodia believes that there is an urgent 
need  to  finalize  the  draft  United  Nations  global 
counter-terrorism 
been 
discussed for many years within the Organization. The 
adoption  of  that  convention  would  strengthen  and 
broaden  the  legal  frameworks  to  combat  those  crimes 
against humanity. 

On weapons of mass destruction, the international 
community  has  made  notable  progress  in  recent  years 
in the area of arms control and disarmament. Cambodia 
welcomes  the  new  Strategic  Arms  Reduction  Treaty 
signed last year by the United States and Russia, which 
has  made 
towards 
eliminating  weapons  of  mass  destruction.  However, 
existing  nuclear  weapon  stockpiles  remain  a  serious 
threat to humanity. Cambodia requests States that have 
not  yet  signed  the  Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban 
Treaty  and  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of 
Nuclear Weapons to do so as soon as possible, for we 
all share the responsibility to guarantee a more secure 
world for all. 

In  that  context,  Cambodia  has  participated  for 
several  years  in  demining  operations  in  South  Sudan, 
Lebanon  and  in  other  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
missions,  including  Chad  and  the  Central  African 
Republic.  

The Israeli-Palestinian conflict remains one of the 
most  protracted  and  volatile  conflicts  in  the  Middle 
East.  Cambodia  calls  on  the  two  parties  to  manifest 
political  will  to  overcome  their  mutual  animosity  in 
order  create  an  atmosphere  conducive 
the 
resumption  of  peace  negotiations  in  the  interests  of 
both Palestinians and Israelis. 
contribution 
important 
an 
A/66/PV.25
has 
to 
11-51384 

23 

A/66/PV.25 


Cambodia  has  always  supported  the  creation  of 
the  Palestinian  State  based  upon  its  1967  borders.  In 
that spirit, Cambodia supports the rights of Palestine to 
become  a  full  Member  of  the  United  Nations  at  this 
session of the General Assembly. Moreover, it must be 
acknowledged  that  neither  Palestinians  nor  Israelis 
could  live  anywhere  else.  It  would  therefore  be  far 
better if both peoples could live side by side in peace 
and  as  good  neighbours.  Cambodia  sees  no  other 
solution to that issue. 

The  embargo  against  Cuba  has  lasted  for  too 
long.  Today  it  is  an  anachronism,  a  terrible  injustice 
against  the  Cuban  people,  who  have  been  the  first  to 
suffer. That is why Cambodia is today renewing its call 
for lifting this embargo, which has brought the Cuban 
people  nothing  but  suffering.  It  is  time  to  end  the 
sanctions  and  put  an  end  to  the  long  trial  they  have 
undergone. 

Given the changes in the world of today and the 
multiple challenges they bring, the main bodies of the 
United  Nations  should  be  reformed  in  order  to  deal 
with  the  problems  we  currently  confront.  Cambodia 
believes  that  such  reform  must  be  comprehensive.  If 
we  cannot  arrive  at  a  consensus  on  Security  Council 
reform  today,  perhaps  we  should  move  forward  with 
reform of the General Assembly, so as to give it more 
power  and  thus  enable  it  to  play  a  more  meaningful 
role in tackling the great challenges of our time, as the 
most representative and democratic body of the United 
Nations.  In  regard  to  the  Security  Council,  reforms 
should  ensure  that  it  reflects  the  realities  of  today’s 
world  through  equitable  distribution  of  representation 
among permanent and non-permanent members. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Eamon  Gilmore,  Deputy 
Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
Trade of Ireland. 
Mr. Gilmore (Ireland): We are living in times of 

breathtaking  change.  Much  of  it  is  good  change: 
scientific  and 
technological  progress  making  real 
advances  for  humankind,  an  ever  more  interconnected 
world 
and 
developmental  potential,  the  profound  transformations 
that are sweeping through North Africa at present. 
But there is also much that is disturbing: violent 

conflict 
the  world,  growing 
environmental  damage  to  our  planet,  the  ravages  of  a 
global  financial  and  economic  crisis,  the  continuing 
economic  opportunity 
in  many  parts  of 
strengthening 
to 
for  by 
is  deeply  committed 
scourges  of  poverty,  inequality,  human  rights  abuses, 
terrorism and extremism and a range of other threats to 
global peace and security.  

To  respond  to  these  multiple  and  interrelated 
challenges,  we  have  one  constant  anchor:  the  United 
Nations.  No  other  organization  is  as  well  equipped  to 
develop  common  answers  to  the  big  questions  of  our 
time. No other organization has the same global impact 
and  legitimacy.  With  our  increasing  need  for  global 
solutions, the United Nations, which represents almost 
all  the  countries  on  earth,  has  the  political,  moral  and 
legal  authority  to  act.  While  there  may  be  no  easy 
answers to the questions being posed, our best chance 
of  finding  effective  responses  lies  in  the  collective 
deliberation  and  action  provided 
this 
Organization. 

the  United 
Ireland 
Nations.  We  look  to  it  to  uphold  and  defend  the 
universal  values  of  peace,  security,  human  rights  and 
development  that  are  set  out  in  the  United  Nations 
Charter. The Charter tells us that all human beings are 
born  free  and  equal  in  dignity  and  rights.  The  United 
Nations is the embodiment of freedom and equality. It 
is  a  bulwark  defending  these  core  human  values  in  a 
changing and uncertain world.  

Freedom  and  equality:  these  are  the  values  that 
underpin Ireland’s response to key global and regional 
challenges. It is our deep commitment to freedom and 
equality 
the  vanguard  of 
international  efforts  to  resolve  conflict,  to  create  and 
maintain 
and 
underdevelopment,  and  to  put  an  end  to  human  rights 
abuses around the world. 

The  values  of  freedom  and  equality  and  the 
essential  ideals  of  the  Charter  are  not  just  words 
written on a page. Since we assembled here 12 months 
ago, we have seen them expressed in North Africa and 
the  Middle  East  in  a  million  acts  of  courage  and 
liberation.  We  have  watched  the  people  of  the  Arab 
Spring, who have asserted their rights and stood up to 
oppression  and  corruption.  Tahrir  —  freedom  —  has 
now  passed  into  all  our  vocabularies  as  a  byword  for 
all  those  no  longer  prepared  to  see  their  basic  human 
rights suppressed.  

The  events  of  the  past  nine  months  in  North 
Africa and the Middle East are historic in their sweep 
and  profound  in  their  implications.  These  have  been 
genuinely  popular  movements  demanding  reform, 
that  places  Ireland 
eradicate 
in 
peace, 
to 
hunger 
24 

11-51384 


freedom  and  equality.  The  leadership  role  exercised 
within 
them  by  women  has  been  striking  and 
inspirational. 

The people of the Arab Spring have stood up and 
stood together to assert their basic rights and freedoms: 
the  right  to  choose  their  own  leaders,  the  right  not  to 
live in  fear of the knock on the  door, the right to live 
freely and openly, the right to provide a decent life and 
a  hopeful  future  for  themselves  and  their  families. 
They  remind  us  that  the  human  thirst  for  basic 
freedoms  is  unquenchable,  and  they  should  inspire  us 
in the work we do here. In rising up to grasp their own 
destiny,  the  peoples  of  Tunisia,  Egypt  and  Libya  are 
tracing the path of those others, once in the shadow of 
the  Iron  Curtain,  who,  in  demanding  those  ordinary 
freedoms, created extraordinary history. 

The  United  Nations  has,  of  course,  played  an 
indispensable  role  in  supporting  these  developments. 
Starting with the key Security Council resolutions 1970 
(2011) and 1973 (2011), it has led international efforts 
to support the Libyan people. I would like to extend a 
warm  welcome  to  the  representatives  of  the  National 
Transitional  Council  who  took  up  Libya’s  seat  at  the 
United  Nations  this  week,  and  I  pledge  Ireland’s  full 
support  as they seek to rebuild Libya and to fulfil the 
democratic aspirations of the Libyan people.  

We cannot know the final  outcome of the events 
we are witnessing. We must ensure that the democratic 
changes  under  way  are  consolidated  and  that  the 
promise of profound improvements in human rights in 
the countries concerned, in particular in relation to the 
role of women, is fully realized. 

However,  the  situation  in  Syria  continues  to 
arouse  the  deepest  international  concern.  President 
Al-Assad  and  his  Government  seem  oblivious  to  the 
demands  of  the  Syrian  people  for  change  and  to  the 
lessons  of  the  Arab  Spring  elsewhere.  They  appear 
determined  to  respond  with  further  oppression  and 
violence.  Our  basic  message  to  the  Syrian  leader  is 
this: no leader who refuses to listen to what his people 
are saying and to act on their clearly expressed desire 
for peace and reform can expect to remain in power. 
In  the  Middle  East  peace  process,  the  search  for 

freedom  and  equality  has  yet  to  bear  fruit.  The Arab-
Israeli  conflict 
remains  depressingly  deadlocked. 
Unless  this  deadlock  is  broken,  the  opportunities  for 
yet another generation of children will be destroyed.  
A/66/PV.25
Everybody 
a 
final 
Ireland  has 
knows  what 

The  situation  in  the  Middle  East  is  urgent. After 
20 years of failed initiatives, disillusionment about the 
ability of the political process to deliver a settlement is 
deepening.  Young  Palestinians 
in  particular  are 
frustrated and despairing. The position of the moderate 
Palestinian leadership is under threat. Never has it been 
more important to show that politics works and that  a 
peaceful,  just  and  lasting  settlement  is  within  reach 
through negotiation. 

and 
comprehensive  settlement  would  involve:  two  States, 
based  on  the  1967  borders  with  mutually  agreed  land 
swaps,  living  side  by  side  in  peace  and  security.  It  is 
more  pressing  than  ever  to  launch  direct  negotiations 
that would address all the core issues and culminate in 
such an agreement within a specified time frame.  

the 
long  been  an  advocate  of 
establishment  of  a  sovereign,  independent  Palestinian 
State within borders based on those of 1967. We want 
to see the peoples of Palestine and Israel living as good 
neighbours in peace, security and prosperity as soon as 
possible  —  and  this  can  come  about  only  through 
negotiation.  Ireland  strongly  opposes  all  action  that 
serves  to  hinder  or  delay  negotiations,  such  as  violent 
attacks on civilians and their property or Israel’s illegal 
settlement of occupied Palestinian territory.  

to  seek 
The  decision  of  President  Abbas 
membership  in  the  United  Nations  for  Palestine  is 
entirely  legitimate  and  understandable.  Palestine  has 
the same right to membership in the United Nations as 
Ireland  or  any  other  Member  of  this  Organization. 
Some  would  seek  to  argue  that  Palestine  cannot  be 
recognized as a State because its borders remain to be 
agreed  on.  But  if  the  borders  of  Palestine  are  still  a 
matter for negotiation, then so, by definition, are those 
of Israel, which is rightly a full Member of the United 
Nations. 
Membership  in  the  United  Nations  of  itself, 

however,  would  not  change 
the  unstable  and 
unacceptable  situation  on  the  ground.  It  does  not 
remove the compelling need for negotiations. Nor will 
it  offer  a  legitimate  excuse  to  avoid  negotiations. 
Whatever  happens  here  at 
the  United  Nations, 
negotiations  must  resume  as  soon  as  possible.  The 
statement issued last Friday by the Quartet  provides  a 
framework for precisely that. 
What  recognition  of  Palestinian  statehood  would 

do,  however,  is  to  give  dignity  and  support  to  the 
11-51384 

25 

tangible  demonstration  of 
A/66/PV.25 

Palestinian  people,  who  have  suffered  for  too  long.  It 
would  also  be  a 
the 
commitment  of  the  international  community  and  the 
United  Nations  to  an  agreed  settlement  between  two 
sovereign States, living side by side in peace, security 
and prosperity. 

The  day  will  come,  not  too  far  off,  when  the 
General Assembly will be asked to vote on a proposal 
to admit Palestine as a Member of the Organization, or 
perhaps, as an interim step towards the achievement of 
that  goal,  to  accord  Palestine  non-member  observer 
State  status.  Provided  that  the  resolution  is  drafted  in 
terms that are reasonable and balanced, I expect Ireland 
to  give  its  full  support.  In  Ireland,  we  know  from  our 
own  experience  that  peace  does  not  come  easily.  It 
requires  political  will  and  difficult  compromises.  But 
we  also  know  the  benefits  of  peace.  There  can  be  no 
doubting  the  hugely  transformative  power  for  the 
Middle  East  region  of  a  final  end  to  the  Arab-Israeli 
conflict. 

The international community has invested far too 
much effort and resources over the past decades not to 
do all it can now to assist a return to direct talks by the 
two  sides.  In  the  words  of  Martin  Luther  King,  we 
cannot ignore the fierce urgency of now. 

I  again  urge  the  Government  of  Israel  to  halt  all 
settlement expansion. I also call on it to end the unjust 
blockade  of  Gaza  by  opening  up  land  crossings  to 
normal commercial, human and humanitarian traffic. 

The  search  for  freedom  and  equality  drives  the 
enormously  important  work  being  done  by  the  United 
Nations and by its individual Member States in the area 
of development. 

The  Millennium  Development  Goals  provide  the 
essential  framework  for 
international  development 
efforts up to 2015. As we look beyond 2015, the United 
Nations must remain central to the fight to end poverty 
and hunger in the world. 

A  century  and  a  half  ago,  the  streets  around  this 
building where we now meet, and throughout this great 
city,  were  thronged  with  tens  of  thousands  of  Irish 
people who came here as refugees from famine. To this 
very  day,  the  memory  of  that  time  remains  with  the 
Irish people. 

Hunger  remains  humankind’s  greatest  enemy. As 
we  meet  today  in  New  York,  some  12  million  people 
are struggling to find food to keep their families alive 
and 
We 
know 
that 
conflict, 
insecurity 
through  measures 
in  the  Horn  of  Africa.  Seven  hundred  and  fifty-
thousand  are  at  imminent  risk  of  death  from  hunger. 
The  immediate  cause  of  this  crisis  is  drought,  but  its 
severity  is  the  result  of  a  combination  of  factors, 
including 
persistent 
underdevelopment.  We  have  a  moral  obligation  to  act 
in the face of such suffering.  

Ireland is providing over $67 million to the Horn 
of  Africa  in  2011  and  2012,  in  direct  life  saving 
humanitarian  assistance  and 
to 
enhance  food  security.  The  clear  lesson  of  previous 
humanitarian  emergencies  in  Africa  is  that  we  must 
address the causes in order to prevent future crises. The 
need  to  address  the  systemic  global  hunger  crisis  is, 
and  will  remain,  central  to  Ireland’s  development 
assistance  programme.  Our  objective  is  to  save  lives 
today  and  build  new  futures  for  communities  ravaged 
by  hunger.  The  Scaling  Up  Nutrition  movement, 
launched  at  the  United  Nations  a  year  ago,  makes  a 
clear link between under-nutrition among mothers and 
babies  and  the  building  of  a  healthy,  educated  and 
prosperous society in the future. 

We need to act together now to provide long-term 
sustainable  solutions  that  will  decisively  break  the 
cycle of food shortages. We believe that a strong focus 
is essential on building the productivity of smallholder 
farmers in sub-Saharan Africa, 80 per cent of whom are 
women  and  the  primary  care  givers  of  children  and 
providers of food, fuel and water. 
is 

change 
their 
disproportionately  affecting 
lives  and 
less 
livelihoods.  Their 
livestock  are 
productive.  Their  coping  mechanisms  are 
less 
effective.  Over  time,  they  are  vulnerable  to  abject 
poverty and despair. I believe that there is a compelling 
case 
bringing 
developmental  fairness  to  bear  on  the  climate  change 
agenda. 

The global financial and economic crisis presents 
major challenges for all of us in our efforts to maintain 
solidarity  with  developing  countries.  Aid  budgets  are 
under  significant  pressure.  But  we  will  not  turn  our 
backs  on  the  world’s  poorest.  In  Ireland,  despite  the 
economic  difficulties  that  we  are  facing,  and  because 
we  recognize  our  moral  obligation  and  our  interests, 
values and principles as a member of the international 
community,  development  will  remain  at  the  heart  of 
our foreign policy. We remain committed to the United 
climate 
their 
farms  and 
for 
“climate 
justice”, 
namely, 
26 

11-51384 
look 
forward 


Nations  target  of  providing  0.7  per  cent  of  gross 
national  income  to  Official  Development  Assistance 
(ODA).  We  will  continue  to  work  to  achieve  that 
target. 

As  Ireland  will  sustain  its  ODA  effort,  we  will 
also  maintain  our  longstanding  engagement  across 
critical  areas  of  United  Nations  work.  We  remain 
strongly  supportive  of  the  vital  role  of  the  United 
Nations 
in  peacekeeping  and  conflict  resolution. 
Recently  a  440-strong  battalion  of  peacekeepers  from 
the  Irish  Defence  Forces  returned  to  serve  with  the 
United  Nations  Interim  Force  in  Lebanon,  the  first 
country to which we deployed peacekeepers more than 
half a century ago. 

A  deep  attachment  to  the  values  of  freedom  and 
equality  and  other  core  human  rights  principles 
underpins  our  candidature  for  election  to  the  Human 
Rights  Council  at  the  elections  to  be  held  in  2012.  If 
elected,  we 
to  making  a  strong 
contribution  to  the  work  of  enhancing  the  Council’s 
performance  and  promoting  respect  for  human  rights 
worldwide. 
We  will  continue  to  push  for  the  disarmament 

machinery  of  the  United  Nations  to  become  more 
responsive  to  twenty-first  century  imperatives.  Key 
challenges 
the 
implementation  of  the  agreements  reached  at  last 
year’s Non-Proliferation Treaty Review Conference, as 
well  as  the  negotiation  of  a  robust  arms  trade  treaty. 
We will maintain a strong focus on the implementation 
and  universalization  of  the  Convention  on  Cluster 
Munitions, adopted in Dublin three years ago. 

Regional  organizations  have  always  been  vital 
partners  for  the  United  Nations  in  the  areas  of  peace, 
security and conflict resolution. Next year, Ireland will 
chair the Organization for Security and Cooperation in 
Europe  (OSCE).  We  look  forward  to  making  our 
contribution 
the  so-called 
protracted  conflicts  within  the  OSCE  region.  Our 
chairmanship  will  be  a  practical  demonstration  of 
Ireland’s  strong  commitment  to  multilateralism  and 
will  draw  on  our  own  national  experience  of  conflict 
resolution. 

Over the past week, the Assembly has heard of a 
formidable array of challenges facing the world. Peace 
and  security,  human  rights,  the  elimination  of  hunger: 
these  are  among  the  great  moral  imperatives  of  our 
time. Underlying each of them is the need to assert the 
resolution  of 
include 
ahead 
year 
the 
for 
to 
the 
A/66/PV.25
like 
I  would 
(Jamaica): 
freedom  and  equality  of  all  human  beings.  Now  more 
than ever, the United Nations is demonstrating that it is 
the  home  for  these  fundamental  values  and  goals  and 
the  arena  in  which  we  can  best  pursue  collective 
solutions. 

Ireland  will  play  its  full  part  in  the  search  for 
those solutions. Whether it is to bring peace to parts of 
the world ravaged by conflict, relief to those threatened 
by  famine  and  starvation  or  protection  to  those 
afflicted  by  human  rights  abuses,  we  will  make  our 
contribution.  We  will  stand  up,  in  the  Assembly  and 
elsewhere, for fairness, for justice, for freedom and for 
equality, in the conduct of international relations. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Kenneth  Baugh,  Deputy 
Primer  Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and 
Trade of Jamaica.  
Mr.  Baugh
to 

congratulate  the  President  on  his  assumption  of  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth 
session. We are confident that his extensive diplomatic 
experience will inform his leadership at this session. I 
assure him of my delegation’s full support.  

During  the  sixty-fifth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly, we benefited from the skilled leadership of 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss.  I  wish  to  recognize 
his sterling contribution to the work of that session. 

We join others in welcoming the newest Member 
of the United Nations family — the Republic of South 
Sudan. The  emergence  of  South  Sudan  as  a  sovereign 
State underscores the fundamental value and relevance 
of  the  theme  of  this  year’s  General Assembly  session, 
namely,  “The  role  of  mediation  in  the  settlement  of 
disputes by peaceful means”. We salute the tenacity of 
the  people  of  South  Sudan  in  their  struggle  to  gain 
statehood  after  five  decades  of  conflict.  We  urge  all 
sides and factions not to allow rivalries and revenge to 
impede  growth  and  development.  The  international 
community  must  assist  South  Sudan  as  it  embarks  on 
the  daunting 
journey  of  stabilization  and  nation 
building. 

We look out at a global political landscape that is 
marked 
uncertainty.  The 
developments  over  the  past  several  months  in  the 
Middle  East  and  North  Africa  in  particular  are  stark 
reminders that the legitimate aspirations of citizens for 
turbulence 
and 
by 
11-51384 

27 

racism, 
the  global 
community’s 
A/66/PV.25 

freedom, inclusive Government and respect for human 
rights cannot be indefinitely suppressed. 

Longstanding  disputes  and  pockets  of  political 
instability  and  conflict  continue  to  fester  in  several 
parts  of  the  world,  resulting  in  social  and  economic 
dislocation  and  humanitarian  crises.  If  the  United 
Nations is to effectively respond to those situations of 
conflict,  its  preventive  diplomacy  capacity,  including 
mediation capacity, must be strengthened. 

Many  conflicts  have  their  roots  in  racial  and 
religious  intolerance,  resulting  in  social  exclusion, 
marginalization and the alienation of people. The High-
level Meeting to commemorate the tenth anniversary of 
the adoption of the Durban Declaration and Programme 
of  Action  against 
racial  discrimination, 
xenophobia  and  related  intolerance,  obliged  us  to 
reflect  on 
inadequate 
compliance  with  the  objectives  of  the  Programme  of 
Action.  Recognizing  the  danger  in  such  situations  of 
potential  conflict  and  providing  full  support  for  the 
Programme  are  congruent  with  the  principles  implied 
in the theme for this session of the General Assembly. 
Related  to  that  is  the  continued  support  of  the 

international  community  for  the  project  to  erect  a 
permanent  memorial  to  the  victims  of  slavery  and  the 
trans-Atlantic  slave  trade,  as  a  visible  message  of  the 
Durban Declaration and Programme of Action. Jamaica 
thanks  all  those  countries  that  have  contributed  to  the 
erection  of  the  memorial  and  looks  forward  to  its 
completion within a reasonable time frame. 
Peace  and  development  are  mutually  reinforcing 

and  intrinsically  linked  to  growth  and  prosperity.  It  is 
therefore 
to 
strengthen  and  support  the  role  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission, 
linkages  between 
peacekeeping  and  peacebuilding  and  the  transition 
from stabilization to consolidation. 

The  resolution  of  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conflict 
is  long  overdue.  It  is  time  to  end  the  occupation  of 
Palestinian  territory.  It  is  time  for  the  people  of 
Palestine  and  Israel  to  live  in  peace  and  mutual 
security. Jamaica remains unwavering in its support for 
a  just,  lasting  and  comprehensive  agreement  that 
recognizes  the  Palestinian  State  within  the  pre-1967 
borders and guarantees the security of Israel. The focus 
must  now  be  on  ending  the  stalemate  and  reviving 
direct negotiations between Israel and Palestine. In that 
regard,  Jamaica  welcomes  the  declarations  to  the 
that  we  consciously  seek 
recognizing 
important 
the 
in 
laying 
rightful  place 
the  groundwork  for 
General Assembly by both Palestine and Israel of their 
readiness to do so. 

Both  sides  must  now  re-engage  in  good  faith, 
taking no action that could undermine the possibility of 
a  durable  solution.  Central  to  that  must  be  Israel’s 
cessation  of  settlement  building  and  expansion  in  the 
occupied territories  and, on the part  of the Palestinian 
leadership  and  people,  the  renunciation  of  violence 
against  Israel  and  acceptance  of  its  right  to  exist. The 
door to peaceful negotiations will not be forever open, 
nor  can  there  be  a  continuing  delay  to  Palestine’s 
assumption  of 
the  global 
its 
community of States. 

The spread of globalization is well advanced, and 
our economies and growth prospects are interlinked in 
a  vast  network  of  economic  opportunities.  In  these 
difficult  financial  times,  developing  countries  are 
forced  to  take  painful  policy  decisions  aimed  at 
recalibrating our economic plans to address immediate 
challenges  while 
the 
fulfilment of our long-term development goals.  

The balancing act that this involves can have dire 
consequences for our most vulnerable nationals. We all 
have  to  take  ownership  of  our  own  development 
process and the necessary steps to provide an economic 
environment 
to  growth  and 
prosperity.  To  that  end,  we  are  compelled  to  adopt 
approaches 
innovative,  pro-active  and 
collaborative.  It  is  through  adopting  such  approaches 
that many countries and regions have made significant 
inroads 
the  Millennium 
Development Goals (MDGs). 
two 

to 
neighbouring  Caribbean 
achieve 
development.  Haiti,  in  the  wake  of  its  disruptive 
disaster,  and  in  line  with  its  successful  efforts  for 
political  organization,  needs  the  continued  support  of 
the international community to foster its development, 
if  its  democratic  gains  are  to  be  consolidated.  Cuba 
must  have  the  space  to  foment  its  own  development, 
free from the decades-long embargo that has slowed its 
growth,  but  not  its  will  to  improve  the  welfare  of  its 
people and that of other developing countries. A strong 
Cuban  economy, 
the  Caribbean 
marketplace, is essential to the region’s development. 
We are faced with the reality that, although we all 

the  same 
operate 
aspirations  for  growth  and  sustainable  development, 
the  struggles  of 
countries 
in  one  global  economy,  with 
the  attainment  of 
is  conducive 
integrated 
that  are 
into 
that 
in 
I  wish 
to 
refer 
to 
28 

11-51384 


we  do  not  all  have  the  same  resources  or  capabilities. 
In addition to being acutely vulnerable to the vagaries 
of  the  global  economic  environment,  the  development 
prospects of many developing countries are frequently 
undermined by environmental degradation and climate 
change.  

Classifications  that  are  ostensibly  positive,  such 
as  our  own  designation  as  an  upper-middle-income 
country,  serve  to  obscure  several  of  the  development 
challenges  that  we  continue  to  face,  particularly  in 
accessing development financing and assistance, which 
are  critical 
to  our  development  process  and  the 
attainment of the MDGs. The range of socio-economic 
characteristics  and  levels  of  development  of  countries 
that fall in the middle-income category is indicative of 
the need for  us to move towards harmonization of the 
criteria used in classification and resources allocation. 

Developing  countries  like  ours  have  undertaken 
painful  adjustments  to  achieve  fiscal  discipline  and 
macroeconomic  stability  within  an  open  economy. We 
continue  to  pursue  free  trade  agreements  at  the 
regional,  hemispheric  and  global  levels.  However,  the 
missing  link  to  progress  is  the  urgent  need  to  build 
capacities 
through 
infrastructure  development,  institution-building  and 
expanding  and  enhancing  productive  capacity  for 
competitiveness  and 
international  quality 
standards.  

Moving  from  an  economy  primarily  driven  by 
commodities  to  one  that  is  value-added,  knowledge-
based, 
a 
transformation 
for 
developing  countries,  must  be  achieved.  Without 
effective  partnerships  between  the  large  and  small 
economies  for  mutual  benefit,  balanced  trade  and 
shared growth, that is unlikely to occur.  

I  speak  here  positively  of  the  increasing  South-
South cooperation that offers hope to many developing 
countries.  We  have  long  recognized  that  we  can 
maximize  our  growth  prospects  through  increased 
economic  partnerships  and  investment  opportunities, 
which  ultimately 
trade 
relations. Indeed, the reality is that development aid is 
an  essential  resource,  which  is  used  by  developing 
countries to offset the financial burden involved in the 
execution of major development projects.  
Unfortunately,  much  development  aid  and 

assistance to developing countries continue to fall short 
technology-driven 
improvements 
challenging 
developing 
innovative 
countries 
although 
to  meet 
lead 
to 
in 
in 
and 
that, 
is 
A/66/PV.25
to 
commitments.  Closing 
We  urge  our  partners 
of  the  agreed  goal  of  0.7  per  cent  of  gross  national 
income, as some of our developed partners fail to meet 
their 
the  gap  between 
commitment  to  development  and  the  provision  of 
resources  that  will  facilitate  the  implementation  of  its 
various  components  requires  political  courage.  We 
commend  those  partners  who  have  maintained  or 
exceeded  their  official  development  assistance  targets 
despite their own economic challenges. 

We  continue  to  count  on  the  support  of  our 
partners and the international community to help drive 
our  social  and  development  goals  and  to  keep  our 
in  place.  International  financial  and 
safety  nets 
development  assistance  help 
strengthen  our 
development  process  and  to  address  setbacks  from 
external  shocks  on  our  economic  planning  and  social 
investments.  Development  funding  is  critical  in  the 
recovery  of  our  agricultural,  mining  and  tourism 
industries,  which  are  often  adversely  affected  by 
climate change and the impact of natural disasters. So, 
too,  are  the  transfer  of  technology  and  capacity 
building. 

the 
development  agenda,  both  here  at  the  United  Nations 
and  within 
the  Bretton  Woods 
institutions. We reiterate our call for the reform of the 
international  financial  institutions  towards  increased 
transparency  and  accountability,  and  an  increased  role 
for the developing countries in decision-making. 

We  welcome  the  increased  attention  that  the 
Group  of  Twenty  (G-20)  has  paid  to  development 
issues and are encouraged by the consultative approach 
in its relations with the United Nations. It is imperative 
that  the  G-20’s  activities  in  respect  of  development 
accord  with  the  central  role  of  the  United  Nations  in 
economic development. 

trade 
negotiations,  which  began  in  good  faith  nearly  a 
decade  ago,  has  the  potential  to  significantly  improve 
the  development  prospects  of  most  developing 
countries. We therefore urge the full re-engagement of 
all  parties  in  the  process,  so  that  we  might  move 
beyond the  current impasse and usher in a new era  of 
multilateral trade relations. This must take into account 
the  preservation  of  policy  space  and  flexibility  for 
developing  countries  in  areas  that  are  integral  to  our 
ability to build competitiveness and trade capacity. We 
remain  hopeful 
the  eighth  Ministerial 
The  Doha  Development  Round  of 
the  context  of 
to  recommit 
that  at 
to 
11-51384 

29 

collaboration  with 
A/66/PV.25 

Conference, to be held in December, we will consider a 
package  of  measures  as  the  basis  for  a  more  balanced 
trade regime that will serve as a catalyst for increased 
economic  growth  and  prosperity  worldwide.  We  must 
commit to ensuring that development remains a central 
objective of the negotiations. 

We  support  coordinated  and  collaborative  efforts 
within the context of the review and implementation of 
the  Aid  for  Trade  Initiative  in  support  of  developing 
countries.  We  will  continue 
to  work  with  our 
international partners and aid and development entities 
in expanding  the Initiative  to build on the supply-side 
capacity and infrastructure of developing countries, so 
that  we  can  take  advantage  of  trade  opportunities  and 
connections within the global economy. 

Jamaica  has  embarked  on  an  export-led  trade 
policy with the full involvement of the business sector 
within  the  context  of  the  World  Trade  Organization 
Trade  Policy  Review  institutional  framework.  The 
strategic  formulation  of  our  trade  policy  process 
includes 
sector 
particularly  given  its  central  role  and  expertise  in 
manufacturing  and  exporting.  Our  success  in  trade 
development  is  strongly  dependent  on  partnerships 
with the private sector as we agree to policy directives 
and  pursue  an  export-led  trade  initiative,  while  being 
mindful  of  our  resources  and  capacity  to  export,  as 
well  as  business  opportunities  and  market  intelligence 
globally. 

Other  critical  challenges  such  as  food  security, 
energy  security,  climate  change,  poverty  and  diseases, 
continue  to  demand  the  attention  of  the  international 
community.  Precisely  because  of  their  transnational 
character,  many  of  these  problems  require  multilateral 
cooperation and action in  an inclusive  framework that 
involves both developed and developing countries. 

A year ago, world leaders gathered at the General 
Assembly  to  take  stock  of  the  progress  made  towards 
the  attainment  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
We  renewed  our  commitments  to  achieving  those 
targets  by  2015.  We  acknowledge  the  support  and 
partnership  in  the  midst  of  the  global  economic 
challenges.  Nonetheless,  with  four  years  left  until  the 
2015  deadline,  we  are  deeply  concerned  at  the  slow 
pace of delivery on commitments made in several key 
areas,  namely,  ODA,  trade,  debt  relief  and  access  to 
new technologies and affordable essential medicines. 
the  private 
of  HIV/AIDS 

Jamaica  renews  the  appeal  made  by  our  Prime 
Minister  at  the  summit  last  year  for  an  emergency 
programme  to  re-energize  the  MDG  agenda.  Without 
such a programme, those targets will remain elusive in 
2015  and  beyond.  The  fiscal  policy  requirements 
attached to the resources made available for developing 
countries  through  institutions  like  the  International 
Monetary  Fund  cannot  assist  in  meeting  the  MDG 
targets  in  the  short  run.  It  is  therefore  critical  that  we 
reinvigorate  the  Global  Partnership  for  Development 
aligned  with  MDG  8.  Critical  also  must  be  the 
channelling of resources and the fiscal space to support 
programmes  for  economic  empowerment  and  capacity 
building.  More  concessionary  loans  and  grants  and 
debt-for-equity swaps should be among the instruments 
used. 

Jamaica  is  on  track  to  meet  most  of  the  MDGs 
despite the economic and financial challenges. Through 
assistance from the Global Fund, we have significantly 
increased access to antiretroviral drugs and reduced the 
rates 
infection,  mother-to-child 
transmission  and  AIDS  mortality.  At  the  High-level 
Meeting  on  AIDS  held 
in  June,  Member  States 
committed to bold new targets for the AIDS response, 
including  scaling  up  investments.  As  a  result  of  its 
reclassification  as  an  upper-middle-income  country, 
Jamaica will not be eligible to access those funds. This 
puts  us  at  risk  of  reversing  the  gains  made  in  halting 
the spread of HIV. We again urge that the factors used 
by 
the 
measurement  of  a  country’s  wealth  be  reviewed,  as 
their  classifications  often  bear  no  resemblance  to  the 
realities on the ground. They must more carefully take 
into  account  a  country’s  indebtedness  and  capacity  to 
pay,  as  well  as 
finance 
programmes  that  are  taken  for  granted  in  respect  of 
middle-income countries. 
We  are  pleased  that  the  international  community 

the  Caribbean 
embraced 
Community 
emphasis  on 
non-communicable diseases (NCDs), the silent killer of 
millions around the world. The High-level Meeting on 
NCDs last week  allowed  us for the first time to agree 
to measures to significantly reduce NCDs. The political 
declaration we adopted (resolution 66/2, annex), while 
not  as  ambitious  as  Jamaica  would  have  preferred, 
provides  a  good  basis  to  address  the  prevention  and 
control  of  NCDs.  We  urge  the  United  Nations  system 
and  Member  States 
implement 
the  proposal  made  by 
for  United  Nations 
relevant  multilateral 
to  expeditiously 
agencies 
its 
fiscal  capacity 
to 
the 
in 
30 

11-51384 
to 
research 
strengthen 
science  and 


measures  to  achieve  the  agreed  targets  and  indicators 
on NCDs. 

The famine in the Horn of Africa, precipitated by 
the worst drought in half a century, is of grave concern 
to  us  all.  It  has  heightened  our  awareness  of  the 
devastating 
impact  of  natural  disasters  on  poor 
developing  countries.  We  must  adopt  more  concrete 
measures  on  food  security,  building  on  the  progress 
made  from  the  World  Summit  on  Food  Security  and 
working  closely  with  the World  Food  Programme  and 
the  United  Nations  Office  for  the  Coordination  of 
Humanitarian  Affairs 
international 
humanitarian  response  and  assistance,  particularly  in 
areas  that  are  prone  to  disasters  and  conflicts.  The 
plight  of  starving  populations,  including  mothers  and 
infants  in  the  region,  must  push  us  towards  the 
commitments  of  the  World  Food  Summit  Plan  of 
Action. 

To  sustain  the  global  food  market  and  feed  our 
populations, we have to engage in greater investments 
in 
to  boost  agricultural 
production — especially in poor rural communities — 
as  well  as  to  offset  the  effect  of  drought  and  famine. 
We  equally  have  to  increase  investment  in  transport 
and  agricultural  infrastructure  to  facilitate  the  storage 
of 
its 
transportation to marketplaces. 

Speculative action in the global market, with the 
attendant volatility in commodity prices, has generated 
socio-economic tensions in various countries across the 
globe.  The  constant  increases  in  food  prices  not  only 
create  further  strain  on  the  economy  and  on  social 
welfare, but also threaten food security and deepen the 
economic  challenges  of  countries  that  are  already 
striving  to  recover  from  the  global  financial  crisis. 
Jamaica therefore welcomes the initiative launched by 
President  Sarkozy  of  France  for  the  G-20  to  give 
serious  consideration  to  this  question  of  financial 
speculation  in  the  prices  of  petroleum  and  food  at  the 
summit  to  be  held  in  November. This  is  a  burgeoning 
crisis,  which  the  United  Nations  must  also  take 
seriously. 

Climate  change  presents  a  clear  and  present 
danger  to  human  development,  particularly  in  small 
island  developing  States  and  least  developed  States. 
Progress  was  made  at  the  United  Nations  Climate 
Change  Conference  in  Cancún  last  December,  when 
common  ground  was  reached  between  developed  and 
its  marketing  and  packaging  and 
food, 
A/66/PV.25
that 
the  nations  of 
developing  countries  on  several  key  issues.  We  must 
now implement and operationalize those decisions. We 
remain disappointed at the slow pace of climate change 
financing. 

The  United  Nations  Climate  Change  Conference 
in  Durban  in  December  will  provide  yet  another 
opportunity to forge consensus on effective adaptation 
and  mitigation  strategies  within  the  context  of  an 
ambitious  post-2012  climate  change  framework.  A 
second commitment period under the Kyoto Protocol is 
essential,  and we  remain optimistic that at Durban we 
will  all  demonstrate  the  necessary  political  will  and 
seriousness of purpose to achieve that. 
At  the  United  Nations  we  share  a  common 

background 
the  1983  World  Commission  on 
Environment  and  Development  and  the  1987  report 
“Our Common Future” (A/42/427, annex). We share an 
awareness 
the  world  are 
interdependent, experience interlocking crises and have 
a  common  but  differently  shaded  responsibility.  We 
the  United  Nations  Framework 
have  agreed  on 
Convention  on  Climate  Change  and 
the  Kyoto 
Protocol.  We  share  the  conviction  that  inequality, 
poverty  and 
the  environment  and  environmental 
degradation  are  linked  and  that  development  and  the 
environment  are  inseparable.  In  the  light  of  that 
background,  we  urge  a  renewed  commitment  to  the 
pursuit  of  development  that  is  sustainable,  through 
increased  attention  to  all  three  pillars  of  sustainable 
development  —  the  environmental,  the  socio-political 
and  the  economic  —  and  a  redoubling  of  efforts  to 
integrate  sustainable  development  principles  at  the 
international,  regional  and,  most  important,  national 
levels, and  

“meet[ing]  the  needs  of  the  present  without 
compromising the ability of future generations to 
(A/42/427,  annex, 
meet 
conclusion, para. 1) 

As  a  small  island  developing  State,  we  have  a 
vested  interest  in  the  successful  outcome  of  the  2012 
United  Nations 
Sustainable 
Development  (Rio+20)  to  review  the  implementation 
of 
the 
Conference  in  Rio  de  Janeiro.  States  and  regions  are 
already  assessing  the  progress  that  we  have  made  and 
the  gaps  that  persist  in  our  efforts  to  chart  a  more 
sustainable  course  to  development  in  the  period  since 
the  1992  Conference.  Significant  gaps  that  cause 
the  commitments  made  20  years  ago  at 
their  own  needs”. 
Conference 
in 
on 
11-51384 

31 

A/66/PV.25 

concern  relate  to  the  transfer  of  technology,  capacity-
building  and  the  provision  of  additional  financial 
resources for development. 

In  our  efforts  to  strengthen  the  international 
sustainable  development  architecture,  the  emphasis 
should  be  on  effectiveness,  on 
the  efficacy  of 
institutions  that  not  only  facilitate  extensive  policy 
discussions,  but  that  also  move  us  towards  fulfilment 
of the ambitious vision that we all embraced in Rio in 
1992.  We  should  also  aim  for  institutional  flexibility, 
which  will  allow  us  to  address  long-standing  and 
emerging challenges through increased cooperation and 
coordination. 

Rio+20  will  provide  us  with  an  excellent 
opportunity  to  renew  our  commitment  to  Agenda  21, 
the  Johannesburg  Plan  of  Implementation  and,  in 
respect  of  the  small  island  developing  States,  the 
Barbados  Programme  of  Action  and  the  Mauritius 
Strategy on its implementation. 

As  host  to  the  International  Seabed  Authority, 
Jamaica attaches great importance to ocean affairs and 
the  law  of  the  sea.  Next  year  marks  the  thirtieth 
anniversary of the opening for signature of the United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea, drawn up in 
Montego  Bay.  We  encourage  Member  States 
to 
appropriately  highlight  that  landmark  event  at  the 
international level. 

The total elimination of nuclear weapons remains 
an  important  goal  for  the  international  community. 
While  we  have 
towards 
achieving  that  goal,  significant  challenges  remain.  A 
number of key players remain outside the Treaty on the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear Weapons  (NPT),  and  the 
Comprehensive  Nuclear-Test-Ban  Treaty  has  still  not 
entered into force. As we look towards the start of the 
preparatory  process 
the  2015  NPT  Review 
Conference, there must be unquestionable political will 
to  address  those  lingering  deficiencies  in  our  push  to 
achieve a world free of nuclear weapons. 

We  must  continue  to  build  on  the  momentum 
gained  from  last  year’s  special  high-level  meeting  of 
transnational  organized 
the  General  Assembly  on 
crime,  which  addressed  measures 
the 
growing  problem,  including  narco-trafficking  and  the 
illicit trade in small arms and ammunition. 

the  Caribbean 
Community,  continues  to  face  severe  threats  to  our 
taken  significant  steps 
its  partners 
to  counter 
Jamaica, 
like 
for 
in 
that 
regulates 
the  sale  and 
long-term  socio-economic  development  from  illicit 
trafficking  in  narcotic  drugs,  small  arms  and  light 
weapons  and  ammunition.  We  will  remain  resolute  in 
our fight  against this menace both locally and abroad. 
We  have  achieved  marked  reductions  in  crime  and 
criminal  activities  over 
the  past  year  with  our 
multifaceted  strategy  to  stem  the  problems,  as  well  as 
through  the  implementation  of  social  intervention  and 
social transformation initiatives to stem the problem of 
crime  and  violence.  We  continue  to  strengthen  the 
capacity  of  our  security  forces  and  to  improve  our 
justice system, to ensure that criminals are caught and 
prosecuted in a court of law.  

We firmly believe, however, that we will not see 
the full impact of those efforts without an international 
regime 
transfer  of 
conventional  weapons,  in  particular  small  arms  and 
light  weapons  and  their  ammunition.  To  that  end, 
Jamaica  is  committed  to  ensuring  that  the  2012 
Diplomatic  Conference  on  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty 
results  in  a  legally  binding,  comprehensive,  objective 
and transparent Treaty. 

In  order  for  the  United  Nations  to  deliver  on  all 
our  expectations,  its  organizational  structure  must 
reflect  the  geopolitical  realities  of  the  twenty-first 
century.  An  effective  response  to  global  challenges 
requires  a  reformed  and  dynamic  United  Nations. 
Reform  initiatives,  spanning  a  number  of  years,  have 
led to the establishment of UN-Women, the reform and 
strengthening  of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  a 
more 
to 
humanitarian  crises  and  a  change  in  the  way  we 
conduct our peacekeeping missions. We must continue 
our efforts aimed at revitalizing the General Assembly 
so  that  it  can  effectively  carry  out  its  role  and 
responsibility 
and 
policymaking organ of the United Nations. 

A  glaring  failure  has  been  our  inability  to  agree 
on  reform  of  the  Security  Council  to  ensure  that  it  is 
more  democratic,  responsive  and  reflective  of  today’s 
political  environment.  For  more  than  15  years,  the 
debates  for  comprehensive  and  lasting  reform  of  the 
Council  have  achieved  very 
little.  The  African 
countries and our Latin American and Caribbean region 
still have no permanent seat at the table. That injustice 
cannot  continue.  Comprehensive  reform  can  only  be 
achieved  within 
intergovernmental  negotiating 
process.  Anything  less  will  be  nothing  more  than  a 
continuation of the status quo. 
deliberative 
coordinated 
response 
efficient 
chief 
the 
and 
as 
the 
32 

11-51384 
the 
important 
to  engage 
interdependence  and 
far-reaching  effects  of 
to  make  commitments  and 



As  we  continue  to  work  together  to  achieve 
sustainable development for all, it is imperative that we 
exercise  the  requisite  political  will  and  make  good  on 
our  commitments  to  the  global  development  agenda. 
The 
the  multiple  and 
interconnected  crises  of  recent  years  have  reinforced 
our 
role  of 
economic  cooperation  and  partnerships  in  securing 
global peace and prosperity. 

We  must  redouble  our  efforts  to  address  the 
growing  challenges  of  poverty,  food  insecurity,  the 
rising costs of food and energy, and climate change. It 
in  extensive 
is  not  good  enough 
deliberations, 
issue 
declarations  without  providing  the  means  for  their 
implementation, including financing, capacity-building 
and technology transfer. We must now go beyond grand 
statements  if  we  are  to  fully  realize  sustainable 
development  and  rekindle  the  faith  of  the  people  we 
serve in the United Nations. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call on His Excellency Mr. Theodore Brent Symonette, 
Deputy  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of the Commonwealth of the Bahamas. 
Mr.  Symonette  (Bahamas):  On  behalf  of  the 

people  and  the  Government  of  the  Commonwealth  of 
the  Bahamas,  I  congratulate  Mr.  Al-Nasser  on  his 
election  to  the  presidency  of  the  General Assembly  at 
its sixty-sixth session. I assure him of my delegation’s 
full support and cooperation. I also extend gratitude to 
his  predecessor  for  his  stewardship  of  the  Assembly 
during  its  sixty-fifth  session,  and  I  would  also  like  to 
extend  congratulations  to  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  on  his 
re-election as Secretary-General. 
I  also  take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  and 

welcome 
the 
193rd State  Member  of  the  United  Nations  and  to 
convey the best wishes of my Government and people 
for its peace and prosperity. 

On  behalf  of  the  Government  and  the  people  of 
the Commonwealth of the Bahamas, I wish to express 
regret at the loss of life and the tremendous and wide-
ranging  destruction  caused  by  hurricanes  and  tropical 
storms  during  the  summer  season.  The  Bahamas,  as 
well as a number of Caribbean islands and, indeed, the 
East Coast of the United States, were particularly hard-
hit by Hurricane Irene. The devastation caused by each 
of those storms reinforces the need for global attention 
the  Republic  of  South  Sudan  as 
A/66/PV.25
faced  at 
supporting 
the  national 
losses  and  which 
to  the  adverse  impacts  of  climate  change  and  natural 
disasters.  The  storms’  trail  of  destruction,  which  took 
lives, flattened homes and businesses, toppled trees and 
spread debris across roadways and bridges, and which, 
in  some  cases,  caused  almost  certain  irreversible 
damage  to  coastal  areas  and  ecosystems,  compels,  we 
believe, the international community to take immediate 
measures  to  address  climatic  phenomena  which  cause 
such  huge 
threaten  so  many 
countries. 

For  us,  the  increased  frequency  and  intensity  of 
natural disasters, including hurricanes, some due to the 
effects  of  climate  change,  are  among  the  major 
challenges 
level.  Other 
environmental  challenges,  including  waste  and  water-
resource  management  issues,  together  with  economic 
and social challenges, all constitute serious constraints 
for the Bahamas. 

We  are  committed  to  mainstreaming  sustainable 
development  principles  into  our  national  development 
strategies.  Progress  is  being  made  in  the  key  areas  of 
protecting  our  biodiversity  and 
the 
development  of  policies  promoting  renewable  energy. 
We  look  forward  to  continuing  to  collaborate  with 
international  partners  so  as  to  achieve  even  greater 
success  in  the  years  ahead.  In  this  vein,  the  Bahamas 
looks 
to  next  year’s  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development.  We  fully 
expect  that  the  Conference  will  take  into  account 
unmet  needs  in  connection  with  each  of  the  three 
pillars  of  sustainable  development,  that  is,  economic, 
social and environmental. 

We  face  an  increasingly  complex  set  of  global 
challenges, which has given rise to an equally complex 
network of formal and informal global institutions and 
mechanisms  designed  to  enhance  collective  action  to 
address these challenges. Consequently, the question of 
international  governance  as  it  relates  to  the  global 
agenda has become a pressing issue in recent years. 

The global economic crisis of the past three years 
has  underscored  the  need  for  more  effective  global 
governance, 
sometimes 
controversial debate on reform of the Security Council. 
Arguably, at the heart of all of these issues, particularly 
for some small developing States such as the Bahamas, 
is the need to ensure that our global systems are able to 
effectively respond to evolving global challenges in an 
inclusive, participatory and transparent manner. 
as  has 
forward 
the 
long 
and 
11-51384 

33 

to 
With 
respect 
international 
A/66/PV.25 


economic 
governance,  the  Bahamas  is  acutely  aware  of  the 
growing role of the Group of 20 (G-20) and the need to 
address how the Group would be better able to engage 
and  consult  a  wider  range  of  countries,  as  well  as  the 
United  Nations  as  a  whole,  with  a  view  to  helping  to 
translate G-20 deliberations into effective actions on a 
global  scale.  Fortunately,  the  work  of  the  Global 
Governance  Group  has  been  largely  successful  in  this 
regard. Indeed, the Bahamas joined the Group with the 
understanding  that  the  United  Nations  has  a  central 
role  in  global  economic  governance  and  that  serious 
engagement  with  the  G-20  would  allow  for  a  clearer 
understanding  of 
their 
respective  strengths  and 
comparative advantages. 
Reform  of  the  Security  Council  is  no  more  a 

reality  today  than  it  was  a  year  ago,  or  even  10  years 
ago.  This  remains,  however,  an  important  goal,  as  it 
stands  as  a  harbinger  of  success  for  other  equally 
pressing  global  governance  activities 
that  will 
inevitably  affect  each  and  every  country  regardless  of 
its size, economic or political power. The aspirations of 
democratization, 
the  marginalized 
greater 
inclusiveness,  representativeness, 
transparency  and 
accountability are no less legitimate at the international 
level than they are at the national or local levels. If the 
Council 
for 
international  peace  and  security,  it  must  reflect  the 
geopolitical realities of our world in its composition as 
well as in its modus operandi. The Bahamas therefore 
continues  to  support  Security  Council  expansion  in 
both categories and the reform of its working methods. 

The  Bahamas  believes  that  the  main  strength  of 
the United Nations is its inclusiveness, as it is perhaps 
the  only  global  body  with  unquestionable  legitimacy. 
Hence,  we  envision  a  greater  role  for  the  United 
Nations in a number of areas, not in order to duplicate 
work  done  elsewhere,  but  to  help  in  other  areas  of 
critical  importance  to  small  developing  countries, 
including international cooperation in tax matters. 

The  Bahamas,  along  with  many  Caribbean 
Community  (CARICOM)  countries,  continues  to  seek 
the  conversion  of  the  Committee  of  Experts  on 
International  Cooperation  on  Tax  Matters  into  an 
intergovernmental  subsidiary  body  of  the  Economic 
and Social Council, the central goal being to give small 
developing countries an effective voice when issues of 
cooperation  on  tax  matters  are  being  decided  by  the 
international  community.  Likewise,  we  recommend  a 
responsibility 
fulfil 
fully 
for 
its 
to 
is 
to 
The  Bahamas  continues 
greater  role  for  the  United  Nations  in  the  areas  of 
international  financial  regulation  and  credit-rating 
systems. 

As  regards  the  global  economic  and  financial 
crisis,  it  is  important  to  note  that  many  small  middle-
income  and  ostensibly  high-income  developing  States 
such as the Bahamas continue to grapple with lingering 
effects, 
including  serious  credit  and  employment 
challenges  —  challenges  that  persist  owing  mainly  to 
indebtedness; non-concessionary status with respect to 
access  to  resources  of  the  international  financial 
institutions;  and  an  increasing  rate  of  erosion  of 
preferential 
the  markets  of  major 
access 
development partners. 

to  develop  national 
initiatives  to  address  these  and  other  related  matters. 
We  have  seen  some  success 
in  maintaining  a 
sustainable  of  Government  debt  to  gross  domestic 
product ratio; implementing measures to provide relief 
and assistance to Bahamians; and efforts to modernize 
and expand our public infrastructure as well as increase 
investment in our least developed islands. 
These  national  efforts  must  be  met  with 

appropriate and urgent actions at the international level 
in  order  to  effectively  respond  to  these  challenges,  as 
well  as  to  help  sustain  progress  in  achieving  the 
internationally  agreed  development  goals,  including 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals.  Such  actions  at 
the  international  level  must  include  the  provision  of 
new  and  additional  resources  to  assist  developing 
countries,  in  particular  the  most  vulnerable  among  us, 
as  well  as 
the  necessary 
implementation mechanisms. 
to 

the 
underline 
Monterrey  Consensus  of  the  International  Conference 
on  Financing  for  Development.  The  Bahamas  also 
wishes to highlight in this regard the critical role that a 
universal,  rules-based,  open,  non-discriminatory  and 
equitable  multilateral  trading  system  can  play  in 
stimulating  economic  growth  and  development  in 
developing countries. 
Migration  can  be,  and  has  been,  a  positive  force 

for  development  internationally.  Indeed,  immigrants 
have contributed to the development of the Bahamas in 
many 
to 
education,  health  care  and  to  the  development  of  our 
tourism and financial services. Uncontrolled migration, 
through  contributions 
the  Bahamas  wishes 
the  development  of 
that  connection, 
importance  of 
implementing 
respects, 
largely 
the 
In 
34 

11-51384 
the 
that 
issue  of 
to  ensure 


however,  has  also  proved,  and  continues  to  be,  a 
serious  challenge  to  sustainable  development.  In  this 
context, the Bahamas welcomes increased dialogue on 
improving  international  cooperation  with  respect  to 
international  migration  and  development.  We  believe 
that  proper  cooperation  can  help 
that 
migration  occurs  through  safe  and  regulated  channels, 
to the benefit of both migrant and receiving States, like 
the Bahamas. The Bahamas will continue to participate 
constructively  in  the  process  leading  to  the  second 
High-level  Dialogue  on  International  Migration  and 
Development,  to  be  held  by  the  General Assembly  in 
2013, with a view to addressing these and other related 
issues. 

The Bahamas congratulates the people of Haiti on 
the election and installation of a democratically elected 
President  and  Government.  We  are  heartened  by  the 
peaceful  and  successful  manner  in  which  the  second 
round  of  elections  was  concluded  in  Haiti.  Political 
stability is fundamental to Haiti’s economic and social 
development.  We  hope 
the 
appointment of a new Prime Minister will be resolved 
in the shortest possible time so that the Haitian people 
can  continue  to  recover  from  last  year’s  devastating 
earthquake and reconstruct their country with a view to 
its sustained and sustainable development. 

My delegation continues to commend the work of 
the  United  Nations  Stabilization  Mission  in  Haiti 
(MINUSTAH). Over the years, MINUSTAH has played 
a  key  role  in  helping  to  lay  the  foundation  for  long-
term  recovery  and  stability  in  Haiti,  with  its  support 
activities  for  State  institutions  and  the  rehabilitation 
and 
the  Haitian  National  Police. 
MINUSTAH’s  role  and  functions  should  reflect  the 
country’s  development  needs,  as  articulated  by  the 
Government.  The  support  and  engagement  of  the 
international  community  in  Haiti  is  as  pressing  and 
urgent as ever, and MINUSTAH must continue to be an 
important factor in this regard. 
The  issue  of  international  peace  and  security 

remains  a  critical  concern  for  the  Organization,  as  it 
does  for  the  entire  global  community.  The  Bahamas 
unequivocally condemns terrorism in all its forms and 
manifestations  and  reiterates  its  commitment  to  the 
fight against it. The terror attacks of 11 September, the 
heinous  attacks  in  Mumbai  and  Norway  and  at  the 
United  Nations  headquarters  in  Nigeria  demonstrate 
that our efforts thus far have proved insufficient; hence 
the urgency of our task. 
training  of 
A/66/PV.25
Internationally, 
these  challenges. 

In  an  archipelago  spread  over  some  100,000 
square miles, the porous borders of the Bahamas have, 
for many years, posed a challenge to national security 
as well as the rule of law. We are currently confronted 
by high levels of crime, too many of which involve the 
use  of  small  arms  and  light  weapons.  We  are  keenly 
aware of the global threats posed by the illicit trade in 
small arms and light weapons, which is linked to other 
aspects of transnational organized crime, including the 
illicit drug trade. 

The Bahamas, both nationally and internationally, 
is  acting  to  reduce  the  threats  that  these  criminal 
elements  pose  to  our  society.  Nationally,  we  are 
continuing  a  programme  of  reform  of  our  criminal 
laws, modernizing and expanding our court system and 
strengthening targeted programmes designed to address 
social  ills.  Regionally,  we  are  working  with  other 
CARICOM nations to undertake a number of measures 
to  combat 
the 
Bahamas  is  committed  to  the  implementation  of  the 
United  Nations  Programme  of  Action  to  Prevent, 
Combat  and  Eradicate  the  Illicit Trade  in  Small Arms 
and Light Weapons in All Its Aspects. 

Regulation  of  the  import,  export  and  transfer  of 
conventional arms is critical if we are to achieve some 
measure  of  peace  and  stability  and  reduce  conflicts. 
The  Bahamas  supports  a  strong,  effective  and 
non-discriminatory arms trade treaty and welcomes the 
inclusion  of  the  category  of  small  arms  and  light 
weapons  and  ammunition  within  the  scope  of  a  future 
treaty.  What  is  clearly  evident  is  the  need  for  an 
integrated global response to supplement actions at the 
national,  regional  and  subregional  levels  if  we  are  to 
effectively  prevent,  combat  and  eradicate  the  illicit 
trade in small arms and light weapons, and thus reduce 
the escalating violence and crime in our societies. 

The Government of the Bahamas continues to be 
committed  to  the  2001  and  2006  Declarations  on 
HIV/AIDS  (resolutions  S-26/2  and  60/262).  Our 
programme, now in its twenty-fifth year, has been very 
successful.  We  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
thank  our  regional,  hemispheric  and  international 
partners for their support. 

the 
prevention  and  control  of  non-communicable  diseases 
(NCDs),  which  pose  an  increasing  threat  to  countries 
like 
the  CARICOM 
subregion. As  our  Prime  Minister  said  in  his  national 
the  Bahamas  and  others  of 
is  also  dealing  with 
My  Government 
11-51384 

35 
With 
and 
applaud 
the  adoption  of 
A/66/PV.25 

address here last week (see A/66/PV.3), the health and 
socio-economic costs required for Governments to treat 
NCDs  are  indeed  enormous.  The  Bahamas  and  its 
fellow  CARICOM  countries  welcome  last  week’s 
High-level  Meeting  on  the  Prevention  and  Control  of 
Non-communicable  Diseases, 
the 
international community’s attention to NCDs. We trust 
that 
the  Political  Declaration 
(resolution  66/2,  annex),  while  it  is  not  as  action-
oriented  as  we  envisaged  when  we  undertook  the 
mandate from our heads of Government four years ago, 
will produce results. We would have preferred the text 
to  have  reflected  stronger  commitments  and  specific, 
time-bound  targets  for  addressing  non-communicable 
diseases  and  their  risk  factors.  We  look  forward, 
however,  to  a  comprehensive  review  of  this  issue  in 
2014. 

the  world  community  witnessing  an 
unprecedented  wave  in  the  call  for  social  change  and 
democracy  across  countries  in  the  Arab  world  and  in 
North Africa, we must ensure, in our desire to promote 
good and effective governance, that respect for human 
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms,  as  well  as  the 
promotion of civil and political rights and the right to 
long-term 
development,  forms 
solution.  My  Government’s  commitment 
the 
promotion  of  human  rights  and  fundamental  freedoms 
is unwavering. 
significant 

achievements  on 
rights 
agenda: the twenty-fifth anniversary of the adoption of 
the  Declaration  on 
to  Development 
(resolution  41/128)  and,  more  recently,  the  tenth 
anniversary,  this  week,  of  the  adoption  of  the  Durban 
Declaration  and  Programme  of  Action.  This  year,  we 
are also observing the International Year for People of 
African Descent. 

In  spite  of  the  objectives  of  these  laudable 
initiatives  for  the  advancement  of  the  international 
human  rights  agenda  and  recent  undertakings  such  as 
the  reform  of  the  Human  Rights  Council,  we  are  still 
confronted  with  persistent  poverty 
stark 
inequalities,  both  within  and  across  countries  — 
racism,  racial  discrimination  and  related  intolerance, 
some  63  years  after  the  landmark  adoption  of  the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  (resolution 
217 (III)).  These  challenges  serve  as  a  constant 
reminder that we have much more to do to improve the 
lives  of  millions  of  disadvantaged  and  marginalized 
celebrate 
international  human 
This  year  we 
the 
the  basis  of  any 
to 
some 
the  Right 

throughout 
the  world.  While 
to  adopt  declarations  and 
it 
is 
populations 
advantageous 
renew 
commitments,  it  is  more  important  to  ensure  their 
effective  implementation  at  the  national,  regional  and 
international levels. The United Nations must therefore 
continue to reflect the ideals of its founding principles 
and unite us through a common vision of peace, mutual 
respect and human rights for all. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call  on  Mr.  Hailemariam  Desalegn,  Deputy  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia. 
Mr.  Desalegn  (Ethiopia):  It  gives  me  great 

pleasure to congratulate the President on his election to 
lead  the  General Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session.  I 
wish  to  assure  him  of  the  full  cooperation  of  my 
delegation 
in  successfully  discharging  his  high 
responsibilities.  I  would  also  like  to  express  our 
appreciation 
to  his  predecessor  for  his  excellent 
stewardship  of  the  Assembly’s  previous  session.  And 
allow  me  to  take  this  opportunity  to  once  again 
congratulate  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  on  his 
reappointment  to  a  second  term,  and  to  express  our 
admiration for work well done during his first term. 

It  is  with  a  great  sense  of  brotherhood  that  I 
warmly  welcome  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan  to  the 
family of our global Organization and offer our sincere 
congratulations and best wishes to the newest Member 
State.  We  also  welcome  the  Libyan  delegation,  which 
we recognized some time ago. We are not oblivious to 
the Herculean challenge that they face. 
The  globalizing  world  has  always  presented 

challenges 
the  developing  world. 
However, the negative developments over the past few 
years,  which  appear  to  be  far  from  being  mitigated, 
have made it even more difficult for countries such as 
ours to move ahead on the path to development as fast 
as  we  would  have 
liked  and  our  potential  and 
commitment would have allowed. There is a need for a 
redoubled  effort  so  that  the  achievements  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  are  not  frustrated. 
That  was  also  the  hope  of  the  fourth  United  Nations 
Conference on the Least Developed Countries. For our 
part, we feel that we have been on track for almost all 
the  targets,  and  our  commitment  is  to  be  even  more 
ambitious,  in  line  with  our  five-year  Growth  and 
Transformation  Plan.  Nevertheless, 
global 
economic situation is a source of concern. 
to  Africa  and 
the 
and 
36 

11-51384 



Within that global context, the Horn of Africa has 
been hit by the worst adverse climatic conditions in 60 
years,  causing  a  very  tragic  drought  situation. At  this 
critical juncture, the international community should be 
galvanized,  particularly  in  helping  to  alleviate  the 
crisis  in  Somalia.  The  call  made  on  Saturday  at  the 
mini-summit  on  that  issue  needs  to  be  reiterated  and 
amplified.  We  should  do  more  for  the  people  of 
Somalia and those others in the region who have been 
affected by the calamity. 

Even  more  crucial  in  the  Horn  of  Africa  is 
sustainable development. Our youth need to have their 
hopes for the future not frustrated, and the condition of 
our  women  and  children  requires  much  greater 
attention. On top of denying people their human rights, 
poverty  is  not  a  solid  foundation  on  which  peace  and 
security  can  be  built.  That  need  compels  us  to  draw 
attention  to  a  number  of  challenges  that  we,  in  the 
Intergovernmental Authority  on  Development  (IGAD) 
region,  face,  particularly  with  respect  to  climate 
change.  The  adverse  consequences  of  climate  change 
are becoming evident in various ways. The challenges 
are  global,  requiring  global  solutions,  on  the  basis  of 
common  but  differentiated  responsibility.  We  do  not 
believe  that  enough  is  being  done  commensurate  with 
the  gravity  of  the  threat  to  humanity  in  general. 
Moreover, the whole issue embodies injustice because 
Africa  and  the  developing  world  happen  to  be  the 
worst  affected,  while  contributing  the  least  to  climate 
change. 

As  members  of  IGAD,  we  have  for  some  time 
tried  to  bring  our  collective  effort  to  bear  on  the 
various challenges the Horn of Africa faces. Realizing 
the  fact  that  one  of  the  major  factors  hindering 
development in our region is related to security and the 
lack  of  durable  stability,  apart  from  doing  our  best  to 
lay  the  basis  for  the  integration  of  our  subregion 
through various infrastructure-related projects, we have 
continued  to  strengthen  our  common  endeavour  for 
peace and security in the IGAD region.  

The  positive  outcomes  are  there  to  be  seen.  No 
regional  group  has  been  as  closely  identified  with 
peacemaking  in  the  Sudan  as  IGAD.  In  Somalia,  in 
close  collaboration  with  the  East African  Community, 
the African  Union  and  the  United  Nations,  IGAD  has 
been  the  lynchpin  in  the  effort  to  assist  the  people  of 
Somalia  in  achieving  peace,  stability  and  national 
reconciliation.  Now,  with 
and 
Al-Shabaab having been driven out of Mogadishu and 
extremists 
the 
A/66/PV.25
support  of 
the 
the  General  Assembly 
and  Ambassador  Mahiga, 
the  tide  turning  against  them,  there  is  new  hope  in 
Somalia,  which  should  be  sustained.  The  Kampala 
Accord  laid  the  basis  for  a  breakthrough  in  Somalia, 
for  which  we  owe  gratitude  to  President  Yoweri 
Museveni 
Special 
Representative of the Secretary-General. 

Let  me  take  this  opportunity  to  pay  tribute  to 
Uganda  and  Burundi  for  the  sacrifices  that  they  have 
made, and continue to make, as the two countries that 
spearheaded  the  efforts  of  the African  Union  Mission 
and the Transitional Federal Government of Somalia to 
keep those such as Al-Shabaab and their supporters at 
bay.  It  must  be  underlined  that  it  is  a  fight  that  has 
humanitarian  and  development  implications,  not  only 
security  or  political.  That  is  why  the  successful 
cooperation  of  the  IGAD  countries  for  stability  and 
security in the Horn of Africa, and in the fight against 
terrorism and extremism, has been so vital. It requires 
international 
the  wholehearted 
community, 
and,  most 
particularly, the Security Council. 

I  need  not  go  into  the  details  of  what  the  IGAD 
countries  have  requested  of  the  Security  Council  in 
terms of support for them to succeed in the effort that 
they  are  making  for  peace  in  Somalia  and  to  contain 
those  who  not  only  encourage,  but  also  take  part  in 
carrying  out  terrorism.  It  is  particularly  vital  for  the 
Council 
and 
recommendations of a body established by the Council 
itself. Sweet talk, devoid of any behavioural change in 
practice  and  on  the  ground,  should  not  lead  the 
Security  Council  to  wish  away  concrete  evidence 
presented to it by a committee of its own creation. 

Let us admit that there are double standards in the 
fight  against  terrorism.  Our  counter-terrorism  effort 
cannot succeed if we are selective in that struggle. The 
Prime  Minister  of  India  could  not  have  been  more 
correct when he said from this rostrum last Saturday:  

“There cannot be selective approaches in dealing 
with  terrorist  groups  or  the  infrastructure  of 
terrorism.  Terrorism  has  to  be  fought  across  all 
fronts.” (A/66/PV.22) 
We  in  Ethiopia  have  never  had  a  short-sighted 

perspective  on  what  we  need  to  do  to  ensure  that  our 
national 
interest  and  our  national  security  are 
protected.  In  this  day  and  age,  it  is  only  through 
collective effort that we can ensure peace, security and 
stability.  Some  might  imagine  that  they  would  benefit 
conclusions 
on 
the 
to 
act 
11-51384 

37 
for  strengthening 
A/66/PV.25 

by  encouraging  discord  in  their  neighbourhood.  The 
Horn  of  Africa  has  suffered  because  of  policies 
emanating from that kind of mindset for too long. That 
should  be  combated.  We  seek  the  support  of  all  fair-
minded people in that endeavour.  

For  our  part,  we  have  been  guided  by  the 
objective  of  protecting  and  defending  the  collective 
security  interest  of  the  people  of  our  region. That  has 
guided our policy in the Sudan and in the effort that we 
have  been  making 
to  nurture  mutual  confidence 
between  us  and  both  the  Republic  of  Sudan  and  the 
new nation of South Sudan. We have also followed that 
signpost  in  conducting  our  policy  with  respect  to 
Somalia. 

Ethiopia  is  not  a  newcomer  to  international 
diplomacy.  As  a  founding  member  of  the  United 
Nations, we take our responsibility as members of the 
human family seriously. We view our vocation to be a 
factor 
international  peace  and 
security  and  for  enhancing  friendly  relations  among 
nations,  large  or  small,  on  the  basis  of  full  equality. 
That  is  why,  as  we  continue  to  call  for  the  reform  of 
the Security Council, we also remain committed to the 
revitalization  of 
true 
representative  of  the  people  of  the  world  in  the  true 
spirit  of  the  United  Nations  Charter,  whose  very  first 
phrase is: “We the peoples of the United Nations”. 

In  that  same  spirit,  Ethiopia  wants  to  express  its 
position on the historic turning point that the people of 
Palestine  and  the  people  of  Israel  are  passing  through 
and  the  challenges  that  they  are  facing.  We  are 
convinced  that  no  great  wisdom  is  required  to  realize 
that,  at  the  end  of  the  day,  it  is  only  through  peaceful 
negotiation  and  mutual  accommodation  that  the  two 
parties can reach the final destination.  

In  that  regard,  it  is  not  enough  that  the  right  of 
the  Palestinians  to  a  viable  State  of  their  own  be 
acknowledged  and  be  paid  lip  service.  It  is  also 
necessary  that  real,  tangible  and  practical  steps  be 
taken, and in good time, towards the realization of that 
objective.  That  has  not  been  done.  No  doubt,  that  is 
partly  the  explanation  for  where  we  are  today  and  at 
this  moment.  On  the  other  hand,  while  it  is  self-
defeating,  and  also  unjust,  to  use  it  as  a  pretext  for 
delaying the realization of the dreams of the people of 
Palestine, nonetheless, it is neither proper nor realistic 
to  underestimate  and  belittle  the  security  concerns  of 
Israel.  
the  General  Assembly, 
the 


When  the  time  comes  for  us  to  pronounce 
ourselves  on  this  signature  issue  of  the  sixty-sixth 
session  of  the Assembly,  the  position  we  take  will  be 
based on our objective assessment of all dimensions of 
the issue in good faith and in line with what we believe 
is  dictated  by  the  cause  of  justice  and  sustainable 
peace. 

We  are  passing  through  a  period  not  only  of 
uncertainty,  but  also  of  great  historic  and  momentous 
change.  The  world  that  emerged  from  the  Second 
World War is almost no more. Periods such as this need 
to  be  handled  delicately.  That  is  why  it  is  so  critical 
that  more  attention  be  paid  to  the  need  for  preventing 
conflicts  and  for  mediation.  We  are  pleased  that  the 
President  Al-Nasser  has  made  this  one  of  his  top 
priorities. We want to assure him that he can expect the 
full cooperation of the IGAD countries.  

Let me conclude by asking for the support of all 
Member  States  for  the  draft  resolution  that  the  IGAD 
countries will be submitting requesting observer status 
for IGAD at the United Nations. 
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Thongloun  Sisoulith, 
Deputy  Primer  Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs  and  Trade  of  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic.  
Mr. 
in  Lao;  English 

interpretation  provided  by 
the  delegation):  The 
reappointment  of  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  as  Secretary-
General  is  testimony  to  his  able  leadership  and  great 
achievements  in  guiding  the  universal  Organization 
over  the  past  five  years.  I  take  this  opportunity  once 
again, on behalf of the Lao Government and people, to 
express to him my sincere congratulations and to wish 
him  great  success  in  the  discharge  of  his  noble  duty, 
especially  as  we  seek  to  overcome  ongoing  multiple 
crises and challenges. 

In  the  same  vein,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic is pleased to work closely with all the States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  at  this  sixty-sixth 
session of the General Assembly under the presidency 
of Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, a veteran diplomat 
with  extensive  experience  in  international  affairs  and 
diplomacy.  I  also  commend  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss  on  his 
success  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its 
sixty-fifth session. 
Sisoulith
(spoke 
38 

11-51384 
to 
the 

conducive 
promotion 
Like other delegations, I welcome South Sudan as 



the 193rd Member of the United Nations. 

The Government of the Lao People’s Democratic 
Republic  has  always  stood  firm  in  upholding  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes  and  in  preserving 
international peace and security in view of creating an 
environment 
of 
development cooperation. In this connection, in recent 
decades the Lao Government has continued to pursue a 
consistent  foreign  policy  of  peace,  independence, 
friendship  and  cooperation  aimed  at  ensuring  tangible 
benefits  for  the  Lao  people,  thus  contributing  to 
maintaining  regional  and 
international  peace  and 
security.  This  policy  direction  was  reaffirmed  at  the 
Ninth  Congress  of  the  Lao  People’s  Revolutionary 
Party  held  in  March.  By  pursuing  this  policy  in 
response  to  external  challenges,  over  the  past  decades 
the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  has  firmly 
upheld  and  maintained  political  stability  and  social 
order,  thereby  laying  a  solid  foundation  for  continued 
economic development and social progress. As a result, 
we  have  achieved  considerable  progress  in  social 
advancement and poverty reduction.  
For  the  next  five  years,  the  Government  has 

identified 
to 
accelerate economic development in all aspects so as to 
build  a  strong  basis  for  the  implementation  of  the 
national  strategy  to  transform  the  country  into  an 
industrialized  and  modernized  nation  and  achieve  the 
ultimate  goal  for  graduating  from  least  developed 
country status by 2020. 

In  this  globalizing  and  integrated  world,  all 
nations  big  and  small,  rich  and  poor,  have  become 
more interdependent than ever. None of us can survive 
in 
international  community. 
Although the Lao People’s Democratic Republic has in 
the  past  recorded  satisfactory  achievements  in  its 
national  socio-economic  development  endeavour,  the 
country will continue to confront daunting challenges. 
As  a  small,  least  developed  nation,  the  country  has 
been vulnerable to external shocks. Therefore, it shares 
with  other  countries  the  desire  to  reside  in  a  peaceful 
and secured world.  

That  being  said,  all  nations  must  continue  to 
enhance  development  cooperation,  to  ensure  tangible 
benefits  for  their  peoples  based  on  mutual  respect, 
solidarity, understanding and assistance, and avoid the 
use of threat, interference and force. Nevertheless, it is 
immediate  and  medium-term 
targets 
isolation 
from 
the 
A/66/PV.25
unfortunate  that  we  have  faced  multiple  challenges 
over  the  past  year  caused  by  regional  conflicts,  and 
spreading  social  unrest,  coupled  with  financial  and 
economic  crisis  and  devastating  natural  disasters, 
which  have  become  more  frequent. All  this  has  posed 
severe  threats  to  global  peace,  stability,  security  and 
development cooperation.  

Against  this  backdrop,  these  multiple  challenges 
are not only obstructing developing countries, the least 
developed  in  particular,  in  pursuing  their  national 
development  efforts  and  achieving  the  international 
development  goals,  but  are  also  further  reversing 
development. 

In such circumstances, we believe that the United 
Nations,  as  the  only  universal  Organization,  should 
further  enhance  its  role  in  order  to  address  the 
challenges  in  a  more  timely  and  just  manner  in 
response  to  the  common  aspirations  of  all  Member 
States. Towards this end, we must accelerate the United 
Nations  reform  process,  which  has  been  pending  for 
years, to achieve a more concrete outcome. It is more 
critical than ever for all Member States to enhance our 
cooperation  in  a  sincere  and  trustworthy  manner, 
without  taking  advantage  of  one  another,  in  the  effort 
to reform the United Nations bodies and improve their 
effectiveness. 

Security  and  political  stability  remain  critical  to 
advancing  the  socio-economic  development  of  all 
regions.  The  United  Nations  should  therefore  play  a 
more  critical  role  in  maintaining  international  peace 
and  security  by  effectively  carrying  out  its  duty  to 
address regional conflicts, especially with regard to the 
situation 
the  Middle  East,  which  has  gone 
unresolved  for  decades.  Against  this  backdrop,  the 
United  Nations 
should  play  a  more  effective 
facilitating role in urging all parties concerned to find a 
solution and realize the vision of two States, Israel and 
Palestine, living side by side in peace and security and 
within internationally recognized borders, as stipulated 
in  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the  Security  Council.  In 
this  regard,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic 
supports  Palestine’s  application  on  23  September  for 
full membership in the United Nations. 

Another  important  concern  remains  the  issue  of 
the economic, trade and financial embargo imposed on 
Cuba for several decades, which has seriously affected 
the  Cuban  people.  We  believe  that  it  is  now  time  for 
that embargo to be lifted unconditionally. 
in 
11-51384 

39 
peace, 
pillars: 
stability 
the  ASEAN 
this  has  contributed 
A/66/PV.25 


Peace  and  security  in  South-East  Asia  have 
contributed  to  creating  an  environment  conducive  to 
the  socio-economic  advancement  of 
the  member 
countries of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations 
(ASEAN). At present, ASEAN is continuing its efforts 
to  accelerate  community-building  by  2015  based  on 
three 
Political-Security 
Community,  the  ASEAN  Economic  Community  and 
the  ASEAN  Socio-Cultural  Community.  Indeed,  we 
have made steady progress in our common endeavour.  

In  its  community-building  efforts,  ASEAN  aims 
to  implement  free  trade  areas  among  its  10  member 
countries, as well as between ASEAN and its dialogue 
partners. In the same vein, our organization has further 
strengthened  its  external  cooperation  by  maintaining 
ASEAN centrality in all ASEAN-initiated frameworks, 
such  as  ASEAN+1,  ASEAN+3,  the  ASEAN  Regional 
Forum,  the  ASEAN  Defense  Ministers’  Meeting-Plus 
and  the  East  Asia  Summit.  In  addition,  ASEAN  has 
started to discuss its long-term vision and role beyond 
the  year  2015.  All  of 
to 
maintaining 
development 
cooperation  in  the  Asia-Pacific  Region  and  in  the 
world at large. 
The  Asia-Europe  Meeting  (ASEM)  is  another 

important  mechanism  for  facilitating 
international 
cooperation.  Over  the  past  15  years,  ASEM  has 
developed remarkably and become an important forum 
for 
to 
emerging  regional  and  global  challenges.  In  that 
context,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  is 
honoured 
that  ASEAN  member  countries  have 
entrusted  it  with  hosting  the  ninth ASEM  Summit,  to 
be  held  early  in  November  2012  in  Vientiane,  its 
capital.  The  Lao  Government  has  made 
the 
preparations  for  the  Summit  a  top  priority.  In  that 
regard,  I  take  this  opportunity  to  invite  the  leaders  of 
ASEM member countries to attend the Summit. It will 
provide  an  excellent  opportunity  for  leaders  from  the 
two  regions  to  discuss  important  issues  related  to 
promoting  peace  and  enhancing  effective  cooperation 
among  the  countries  of  Asia  and  Europe  in  this  new 
era. 
Socio-economic  development  in  a  country  that 

has  suffered  the  consequences  and  legacy  of  war  has 
never  been  easy.  One  of  the  main  obstacles  and 
hindrances  to  our  efforts  to  advance  socio-economic 
development is unexploded ordnance, which continues 
to have an extensive and serious negative impact on the 
to  consider  measures 
to  respond 
leaders 
and 

to 
to 
the 
clear 
the  past  year 
financial  means 
livelihoods  of  the  Lao  people,  both  directly  and 
indirectly. The Lao Government has made every effort 
and  mobilized 
the 
contaminated  areas,  particularly  agricultural  and 
inhabitable lands across the country, as well as to raise 
public  awareness  and  help  victims  to  reintegrate  into 
society.  

In discharging its duties as President of the First 
Meeting of States Parties to the Conference on Cluster 
Munitions,  over 
the  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic  has  received  invaluable  support 
and  assistance  from 
international  community, 
including  States  parties  and  non-State  parties, 
international  organizations,  in  particular  the  United 
Nations  Development  Programme,  civil 
society 
international  non-governmental 
organizations  and 
organizations.  All  have  contributed 
the  early 
implementation of this humanitarian Convention.  

On  that  note,  on  behalf  of  the  Lao  Government 
and people, as well as on my own behalf, I would like 
to express my most sincere appreciation to all countries 
and  international  organizations  for  their  support  and 
assistance.  These  were  clearly  reflected  in  the  broad 
participation  in  the  First  Meeting  of  States  Parties, 
which  was  hosted  by  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic in November 2010. Furthermore, I would like 
to  congratulate  those  countries  that  have  ratified  or 
acceded  to  the  Convention.  The  number  of  States 
parties  to  the  Convention  has  now  increased  to  63.  I 
hope that other countries that are not yet States parties 
will consider acceding to it in the near future. 

Mr.  Alotaibi  (Kuwait),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 

It is more crucial than ever that the international 
community seize the opportunity to fulfil its obligation 
to  promote  and  enhance  cooperation  as  a  means  of 
addressing  pressing  challenges,  which  no  country  can 
do on its own. Against that backdrop, the Lao People’s 
Democratic  Republic 
consistent 
determination  to  work  closely  with  the  international 
community,  thereby  helping  to  make  this  world  a 
peaceful,  equal  and  just  place,  free  of  fear  and 
deprivation. I am convinced that close cooperation and 
mutual  assistance  will  enable  us  all  to  achieve  our 
common goals. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Yang  Jiechi,  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of the People’s Republic of China. 
reaffirms 
its 
40 

11-51384 
became 
Countries 


Mr.  Yang  Jiechi  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  I 

wish  to  begin  by  congratulating  Mr.  Nassir Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser  on  having  assumed  the  presidency  of  the 
General Assembly at its current session. I am confident 
that, with his outstanding ability and great experience, 
he  will  fulfil  his  lofty  mission.  I  also  wish  to  thank 
Mr. Deiss  for  his  contribution  as  President  at  the 
previous session. I further wish to take this opportunity 
to warmly congratulate the Republic of South Sudan on 
becoming  the  193rd  member  of  the  United  Nations 
family.  

The  first  decade  of  the  twenty-first  century  is 
now behind us. During that decade, the trend towards a 
multipolar  world  and  economic  globalization  gained 
momentum. 
increasingly 
interdependent. Revolutions in science and technology 
brought  profound  transformations  to  human  society. 
However,  various 
traditional  and  non-traditional 
security threats and global challenges were intertwined 
with  those  changes,  and  the  world  was  far  from  a 
peaceful place.  

As the second decade of the new century begins, 
the world has entered an extraordinary historical stage 
in its pursuit of peace and development, and continues 
to undergo profound and complex changes. Uncertainty 
and  instability  are  increasing  despite  the  generally 
peaceful  international  environment.  Development  is 
becoming an increasingly serious issue, and promoting 
common  development  has  become  a  more  important 
and pressing task than ever before. 

Global  development  is  now  at  a  new  critical 
juncture. Global recovery remains fragile, international 
financial  markets  are  volatile  and  the  pursuit  of 
sustainable  development  faces  daunting  challenges. 
The  world  economy  therefore  has  to  meet  the  crucial 
test  of  maintaining  growth.  Some  countries  in  West 
Asia  and  North  Africa  are  in  continual  political 
turmoil.  Terrorist  threats  are  spreading  and  global 
challenges growing. The international community faces 
a critical test in maintaining stability.  

The  gap  in  development  between  the  South  and 
the  North  is  as  wide  as  ever.  The  number  of  people 
living in absolute poverty has increased by 64 million 
owing  to  the  international  financial  crisis.  Nearly 
1 billion people suffer from starvation. Urgent action is 
needed to achieve the Millennium Development Goals. 
It is imperative to step up international cooperation to 
help  the  least  developed  countries  (LDCs)  meet  the 
A/66/PV.25
and 
are 
through 
structural 
economic 
addressing 
cooperation 
basic  needs  of  their  people.  In  the  face  of  these 
challenges,  we  share  an  important  mission  to  achieve 
common  development,  and  we  also  have  rare  new 
opportunities.  
Economic globalization has made the interests of 

interconnected.  Ensuring 
countries  more  closely 
security 
promoting 
development  through  stability  has  become  our  shared 
desire.  Countries 
development 
challenges in innovative ways. To overcome the crisis, 
developed  countries  have  taken  steps  to  improve  their 
fiscal  conditions,  adopted  stimulus  measures  and 
accelerated 
adjustment. 
Developing countries as a whole have maintained good 
growth  momentum.  In  particular,  the  rapid  growth  in 
some emerging economies has driven the growth of the 
world economy.  

Progress  has  been  made  in  the  reform  of  the 
global  economic  governance  structure,  and  various 
regional  cooperation  mechanisms  are  expanding. 
Efforts  to  accelerate  the  development  of  a  green 
economy and explore new modes of sustainable growth 
have  created  new  momentum  and  space  for  common 
development.  Faced  with  new  opportunities  and 
challenges, we should work as a team to overcome our 
difficulties  and  pursue  mutual  benefit  and  common 
development.  This  is  the  responsibility  and  mission 
that  history  bestows  upon  all  of  us.  To  fulfil  our 
mission, we need to take the following steps.  

We  should  foster  sound  momentum  for  global 
economic  recovery.  The  underlying  impact  of  the 
international  financial  crisis  has  yet  to  dissipate,  and 
economic  recovery  is  still  fragile  and  uneven.  We 
should  intensify  consultation  and  coordination,  and 
send  a  strong  message  of  solidarity  and  win-win 
cooperation 
international 
confidence  in  global  recovery  and  growth.  We  should 
work for a fair, just, inclusive and orderly international 
monetary and financial system, and promote the voice 
and representation of emerging markets and developing 
countries.  

China  supports  the  transition  of  the  Group  of 
20 (G-20) from a short-term crisis response mechanism 
to  a  long-term  mechanism  of  economic  governance. 
The G-20 should play a bigger role in global economic 
governance  and  in  promoting  the  full  recovery  and 
growth of the world economy.  
so 
as 
to 
strengthen 
11-51384 

41 

lay 
We  should 
the  Doha  Round  achieve 
A/66/PV.25 

We  support  the  efforts  of  emerging  markets  to 

explore  new  modes  of 
international  economic 
cooperation.  We  strongly  oppose  protectionism  in  all 
its  forms  and  call  for  strengthening  the  multilateral 
trading  regime.  The  concerns  of  the  least  developed 
countries  should  be  addressed,  and  efforts  made  to 
make 
its  development 
objectives. 

the  political  foundation  for 
cooperative  development.  All  countries,  big  or  small, 
strong or weak, rich or poor, are equal members of the 
international  community,  and  their  equal  right  to 
development  should  be  protected.  Mutual  respect  and 
equality  are  the  basic  norms  governing  international 
relations  and  constitute  an  important  guarantee  for 
common  development.  In  the  current  context,  it  is  of 
particular  and  practical  importance  to  adhere  to  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations, to uphold the authority and role of the United 
Nations,  to  observe  in  good  faith  the  principle  of 
non-interference in each other’s internal affairs, and to 
promote democracy in international relations.  

We  should  respect  the  sovereignty  and  territorial 
integrity  of  all  countries.  The  internal  affairs  of  each 
country  should  be  decided  by  its  own  people.  We 
oppose  interference  in  other  countries’  internal  affairs 
by whatever means and under whatever pretext.  

The diversity of the world is a valuable asset for 
the development of human society. It should be seen as 
a positive factor that allows countries to learn from one 
another,  and  should  not  be  used  as  an  excuse  for  the 
big to bully the small or the rich to ride roughshod over 
the  poor  in  international  relations.  We  should  respect 
the  right  of  each  country  to  pursue  the  development 
path  of  its  choice  and  we  should  respect  the  diversity 
of  civilizations.  We  should  seek  common  progress  by 
drawing  on  one  another’s  strength  with  an  open  and 
inclusive  mind,  pursuing  common  ground  while 
preserving differences. 

security  environment 
conducive  to  stability  and  development.  History  has 
repeatedly  shown  that  stability  and  development  go 
hand  in  hand.  Without  stability,  there  can  be  no 
development;  without  development,  there  can  be  no 
stability. In keeping with the purposes and principles of 
the  United  Nations  Charter,  we  should  always  use 
peaceful  means  to  settle  international  disputes  and 
hotspot  issues.  We  should  oppose  the  wilful  use  or 
foster  a 
should 
We 
and 
development.  The 
threat of force, terrorism, separatism and extremism in 
all  their  forms,  and  we  should  uphold  the  common 
security of humankind. 

China  respects  the  independent  choice  of  the 
people  of  the  Sudan  and  South  Sudan,  and  hopes  that 
the  new-born  country  of  South  Sudan  will  enjoy 
stability 
international 
community  should  continue  to  support  and  encourage 
the Sudan and South Sudan to resolve their outstanding 
issues appropriately through dialogue and consultation, 
pursue  amicable  relations  and  common  development, 
and  uphold  regional  peace  and  stability.  China  has 
encouraged the Sudan and South Sudan to resolve their 
dispute  through  peaceful  negotiation  and  has  worked 
hard  to  advance  the  peace  process  between  them.  We 
support  the  proper  settlement  of  the  Darfur  issue.  We 
will continue to work with the international community 
to play a constructive role in advancing regional peace, 
stability and development. 

China has consistently supported the just cause of 
establishing  an  independent  Palestinian  State,  and 
supports Palestine’s membership in the United Nations. 
We  support  efforts  to  achieve  a  two-State  solution 
through  political  negotiation  so  as  to  establish,  on  the 
basis  of  the  1967  borders,  an  independent  Palestinian 
State that enjoys full sovereignty, with East Jerusalem 
as its capital. We believe that progress should be made 
in  parallel  in  the  peace  talks  between  Syria  and  Israel 
and  Lebanon  and  Israel,  with  an  ultimate  view  to 
achieving  a  comprehensive,  just  and  lasting  peace  in 
the  Middle  East  along  with  peaceful  coexistence 
between  the  Arab  countries  and  Israel.  We  hope  that 
the international community and the parties concerned 
will  make  unremitting  efforts  to  this  end  and  sustain 
the Middle East peace process. 

China  is  greatly  concerned  about  the  turbulence 
in  West  Asia  and  North  Africa.  We  stand  for  the 
principle  of  non-interference.  We  respect  and  support 
the  efforts  of  countries 
to 
independently  handle  their  internal  affairs,  and  we 
respect  their  aspirations.  We  hope  that  the  parties 
concerned  will  resolve 
through 
political  dialogue  and  speedily  restore  stability  and 
order in their respective countries.  

Libya has now entered a critical transition from a 
state  of  war  and  turmoil  to  national  reconstruction. 
China  respects  the  choice  of  the  Libyan  people  and 
recognizes the National Transitional Council (NTC) as 
their  differences 
regions 
those 
in 
42 

11-51384 
China 
is 
also 
greatly 
the  Syrian 


the governing authority of Libya and the representative 
of its people. We hope that, under the leadership of the 
NTC,  the  parties  in  Libya  will  launch  an  inclusive 
process  of  political  transition  through  which  they  will 
maintain  ethnic  harmony  and  national  unity,  restore 
stability  as  soon  as  possible  and  begin  economic 
reconstruction.  China  supports  the  leading  role  of  the 
United Nations in Libya’s post-conflict reconstruction, 
and  urges  the  speediest  possible  operationalization  of 
the United Nations Support Mission in Libya.  

about 
concerned 
developments  in  Syria.  We  hope  that  parties  in  Syria 
will  exercise  restraint,  avoid  all  violence,  further 
bloodshed  and  conflict,  and  act  quickly  to  ease 
tensions. We believe that a Syria-led, inclusive political 
process  aimed  at  promoting  reform  through  dialogue 
and consultation is the right way to resolve the current 
crisis  in  Syria.  The  international  community  should 
respect  the  sovereignty,  independence  and  territorial 
integrity  of  Syria,  and  address 
issue 
cautiously  so  as  to  prevent  further  turbulence  and 
repercussions on regional peace. 

China welcomes the positive developments on the 
Korean  peninsula.  We  believe 
that  dialogue  and 
consultation  are  the  only  effective  way  to  address  the 
issues  of  the  peninsula.  The  Six-Party  Talks  are  an 
effective mechanism for advancing the denuclearization 
of  the  Korean  peninsula  and  for  upholding  peace  and 
stability both on the peninsula and in North-East Asia.  

China has worked hard to promote peace through 
dialogue,  and  has  played  a  unique  role  in  easing 
tensions  and  maintaining  peace  and  stability  on  the 
Korean  peninsula.  China  welcomes 
recent 
resumption  of  dialogue  between 
the  Democratic 
People’s Republic of Korea and the Republic of Korea, 
as  well  as  between  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic 
of  Korea  and  the  United  States.  We  hope  that  the 
parties  concerned  will  seize  the  opportunity,  remain 
engaged in dialogue and work for an early resumption 
of the Six-Party Talks. 
should  promote  balanced  development 

We 
between 
the  South  and 
the  North.  The  uneven 
development  between  South  and  North  is  the  biggest 
imbalance  in  the  global  economy.  Without  balanced 
development, 
sustainable 
development.  Unless  underdeveloped  countries  shake 
off poverty and grow their economies, there can be no 
common global prosperity.  
can  hardly  be 
there 
A/66/PV.25
enjoy 
should  honour 
the  benefits  of 

Achieving the Millennium Development Goals on 
a global scale and on schedule is an urgent and arduous 
task.  Developed  countries 
their 
commitments on official development assistance, open 
their markets, reduce and cancel debt, and their step up 
financial  and  technological  support  to  developing 
countries.  International  financial  institutions  should 
use  their  resources  to  help  developing  countries,  and 
particularly the LDCs, on a priority basis. Developing 
countries, on their part, should explore growth models 
that  are  conducive 
to  development  and  poverty 
alleviation  in  order  to  achieve  a  higher  level  of 
development. 

Food security has emerged as a major challenge. 
The  Horn  of Africa  is  suffering  from  massive  famine 
triggered  by the most severe drought in  60 years. The 
international  community  should  scale  up  assistance, 
stabilize the price of food and other commodities, and 
help  developing  countries  enhance  their  capacity  for 
autonomous  development  so  that  all  countries  and 
regions 
common 
can 
development. 

The  world  witnessed  major  development, 
transformation and adjustment in the first decade of the 
twenty-first century. During this period, China enjoyed 
sustained  and  fast  development,  and  its  relations  with 
the  outside  world  underwent  profound  changes. 
China’s achievements in development, and its possible 
future  course,  have  become  a  focus  of  international 
attention.  Over  the  past  10  years,  China’s  economy 
continued  to  grow,  and  its  people’s  living  standards 
rose markedly, thanks to the hard work of the Chinese 
people. Today,  China  has  become  the  world’s  second-
largest  economy, 
largest  exporter,  second-largest 
importer and largest emerging market. The basic living 
needs  of  China’s  1.3  billion  people  are  being 
adequately  met,  and  the  number  living  in  absolute 
poverty has fallen drastically. 

On the other hand, the difficulties China faces in 
terms  of  development  should  not  be  ignored.  We 
remain a developing country with a large population, a 
weak economic foundation and serious imbalances and 
lack  of  coordination  in  our  development.  China  will 
have  to  make  persistent  and  strenuous  efforts  to 
achieve its development goals. Guided by our recently 
adopted twelfth five-year plan for economic and social 
development,  we  will  pursue  scientific  development, 
accelerate  the  shift  in  our  growth  model,  advance 
scientific  and  technological  innovation  and  increase 
the 
11-51384 

43 

A/66/PV.25 

reforms  and  openness  designed  to  promote  long-term, 
steady  and  fast  economic  development,  as  well  as 
social  harmony  and  progress.  The  world  will  see  a 
more  open  China,  with  more  sustainable  development 
and greater social harmony. 
China’s development has brought real benefits to 

the  Chinese  people  and  contributed 
to  global 
development and prosperity. During the past 10 years, 
China  imported  close  to,  on  average,  $750  billion 
worth of goods annually, creating more than 14 million 
jobs for the relevant countries and regions. At the end 
of  the  twelfth  five-year  period  in  2015,  China’s  total 
economic  output  will  be  around  $8.6  trillion.  It  is 
expected  that  China  will  import  about  $10  trillion  in 
goods  in  the  next  five  years,  which  will  further  boost 
world  economic  growth.  China  needs  the  world  in 
order  to  be  able  to  continue  to  develop,  and  China’s 
development will in turn contribute more to the shared 
development of the world as a whole. 

As  a  developing  country,  China  is  committed  to 
enhancing  mutually  beneficial  cooperation  with  other 
developing  countries,  based  on  equality,  and 
to 
enhancing  its  efforts  to  provide  them  with  assistance 
and support. China has cancelled 380 debts incurred by 
50 heavily indebted poor countries and LDCs, and will 
phase in zero-tariff treatment for 95 per cent of exports 
from 
the  African  LDCs  with  which  China  has 
diplomatic  relations.  We  have  completed  more  than 
2,100  projects, 
schools  and 
hospitals,  in  other  developing  countries,  and  trained 
150,000  professionals  in  various  fields  for  them.  In 
sympathy with the pain of the countries and people in 
the Horn of Africa hit by famine, China has decided to 
provide  those  countries  with  RMB443.2  million  in 
emergency  food  assistance  and  cash  for  purchasing 
food to help them overcome the famine. 

China  has  made  notable  efforts  to  achieve  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  As  it  continues  to 
develop,  China  will  create  more  opportunities  for 
world peace, development and cooperation. To advance 
common  development,  we  must 
foster  a  sound 
international  environment.  Over  the  years,  China  has 
been  dedicated  to  creating  a  peaceful  international 
environment in which it can develop. At the same time, 
it has contributed to enhancing world peace through its 
own  development.  China  has  actively  assumed 
international  responsibilities  as  its  capacity  permits, 
and  has  worked  to  promote  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
issues in troubled areas.  
including  building 
in 
China  participates  actively 

international 
peacekeeping  operations;  with  a  total  of  more  than 
19,000  personnel  deployed  in  28  United  Nations 
peacekeeping missions, China is the largest contributor 
of  United  Nations  peacekeeping  personnel  among 
Security  Council  permanent  members.  China  has 
provided assistance in cash and kind to countries hit by 
earthquakes and tsunamis, and has sent rescue teams to 
carry out humanitarian relief operations in the affected 
areas.  China  is  actively  involved  in  the  fight  against 
piracy  and  in  other  areas  of  international  cooperation. 
All these efforts have contributed to maintaining world 
peace and stability. 

The tide of history is surging forward. In the next 
decade,  peace,  development  and  cooperation  will 
remain trends of the times, and China will not waver in 
its  pursuit  of  development  and  progress.  Peaceful 
development  is  the  strategic  choice  that  China  has 
made to build a modern, strong and prosperous country 
and  to  make  a  greater  contribution  to  the  progress  of 
human  civilization.  China  will  stay  on  that  path, 
pursuing an independent, peaceful foreign policy and a 
win-win strategy of opening up its society. 

We  are  committed  to  achieving  a  better  life  for 
the  Chinese  people  and  greater  development  and 
prosperity  for  all  humankind.  We  will  achieve  those 
goals  through  hard  work,  reforms  and  innovation,  and 
by  conducting 
long-term  friendly  exchanges  and 
establishing  equality-based,  win-win  cooperation  with 
other  countries.  A  prosperous,  harmonious  and  stable 
China  that  lives  up  to  its  responsibilities  will  make  a 
greater  contribution  to  the  prosperity  and  stability  of 
the world and the common development of humankind. 
Let  us  work  together  to  deepen  cooperation  and 
achieve  development  by  sharing  opportunities  and 
meeting  challenges 
thus  build  a 
harmonious  world  of  lasting  peace  and  common 
prosperity. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Taïb  Fassi  Fihri,  Minister 
for Foreign Affairs and Cooperation of the Kingdom of 
Morocco. 
Mr.  Fassi  Fihri  (Morocco)  (spoke  in Arabic):  It 

is  a  great  pleasure  for  me  to  extend  to  Mr. Al-Nasser 
my sincere congratulations on his election as President 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session. His 
election  reflects  the  esteem  enjoyed  by  the  brotherly 
State of Qatar and the Arab world as a  whole. We are 
together,  and 
44 

11-51384 
in  particular 


confident  that  his  rich  diplomatic  experience  will 
ensure a successful session. I also take this opportunity 
to pay tribute to his predecessor, Mr. Joseph Deiss, for 
his successful efforts throughout his presidency.  

We  also  reiterate  our  congratulations  to  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon  on  his  reappointment  as  Secretary-General. 
We  highly  value  the  initiatives  undertaken  during  his 
first  mandate, 
the  establishment  of 
UN-Women. I also reiterate our strong support for the 
priorities  set  by  the  Secretary-General  for  his  second 
term.  

This  session  is  taking  place  in  a  sensitive 
international  context.  The  world  is  facing  acute  and 
complex  crises,  some  of  which  are  structural  and 
persistent,  including  climate  change  and  the  food 
crisis,  while  others  are  circumstantial,  such  as  the 
unprecedented  financial  crisis  and  devastating  nuclear 
accidents. Yet others, too, have had profound impacts, 
such  as  the  financial  crisis  that  became  a  global 
economic  crisis  with  destabilizing  social  and  political 
consequences.  A  decade  after  the  horrific  events  of 
9/11, there is also the continued threat of international 
terrorism  with 
transnational 
organized crime in all its aspects. In addition, national 
and international tensions and armed conflict persist. 

Such a critical situation has rarely been witnessed 
by  the  world.  We  are  therefore  called  upon  to  reflect 
objectively  on  the  following  questions:  What  type  of 
United Nations do we want in the face of these issues 
and  challenges?  How  can  we  ensure  that  the  United 
Nations  will  serve  as  an  influential  and  efficient  legal 
and political framework for the collective management 
of global affairs? How can we ensure the effectiveness 
of the Organization’s bodies and organs in adapting to 
the  fast-changing  world?  And  finally,  how  do  we 
confirm  the  role  of  the  Organization  as  the  principal 
axis  of  a  multilateral  system  based  on  solidarity  and 
coordination  with  new 
international  groupings  of 
limited  membership  that  are  endowed  with  the  ability 
to promptly respond to new events?  

These  questions  are  not  based  on  an  idealistic 
approach  but  emanate  from  our  deep  belief  in  the 
highly important and unique role of the United Nations 
as  a  framework  and  reference  for  efficient  and  just 
global  governance,  based  on  solidarity,  and  which 
draws  its  legitimacy  from  its  global  membership  and 
the capital it has accumulated since its establishment. 
its  growing 
links 
to 
in 
11-51384 

45 
A/66/PV.25
in 
landmark 
To be effective, global governance must serve as 

the  natural  extension  of  national, 
regional  and 
subregional  governance.  All  Member  States  should 
shoulder  their  responsibilities  in  adopting  appropriate 
measures and actions at the national level so as to lay 
the foundation for and consolidate good governance. 

On  that  basis,  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  opted 
several  decades  ago  to  establish  a  democratic  State 
based  on  good  governance,  guaranteed  individual 
freedoms,  the  dignity  of  its  citizens  and  respect  for 
human  rights,  while  upholding 
the  principles  of 
equality,  equal  opportunity  and  social  justice,  as  well 
as  the  struggle  against  marginalization  and  social 
exclusion. The Kingdom, through the insightful vision 
of His Majesty King Mohammed VI, has also based the 
establishment of a democratic and advanced society on 
two 
interdependent  pillars:  strengthened  political 
reform and the realization of human development. 

The  recent  adoption  of  the  Kingdom’s  new 
Constitution  was  an  historic 
this 
distinctive process and highlighted the cohesion among 
all  components  of  the  Moroccan  nation  with  its 
multiple branches. It consolidates the principles of the 
separation and balance of powers while preserving the 
full independence of the judiciary and the rule of law. 
It also defines the  rights  and duties of  citizenship  and 
the  foundations  for  political  and  economic 
lays 
governance 
mediation, 
representation  and  accountability  institutions.  It  also 
strengthens women’s participation in politics and social 
and  economic  development.  In  that  context,  broad 
regionalization  enjoys  a  central  role  in  the  innovative 
constitutional architecture. It serves as the backbone of 
community 
achieving 
development based on balance and solidarity among all 
regions of the Kingdom. 

The  Arab  world  is  witnessing  profound  events 
and  transformations  that,  on  the  one  hand,  highlight 
legitimate aspirations to freedom, dignity, progress and 
universal values that are shared by all regions, cultures 
and  religions.  Those  events  also  show,  on  the  other 
hand, that social and economic development cannot be 
achieved  without  political 
the 
evolution  of  democracy  for  the  benefit  of  individuals 
and  communities.  There  can  be  neither  progress  nor 
stability 
the  context  of  political  stagnation, 
ideological  closure,  the  erosion  of  legitimacy  and  the 
absence of any renewed or peaceful transfer of political 
power. 
transparency  and 
democracy 
regulatory, 
through 
aimed 
at 

that  regard,  Morocco  welcomes 
A/66/PV.25 


Lastly,  those  events  have  also  shown  that  each 
Arab  country  has  the  capacity  to  build  a  political 
system  that  reconciles  universal  values  and  national 
specificities,  and  that  combines  necessary  openness 
and  the  preservation  of  cultural  and  civilizational 
identity.  In 
the 
institutional  progress  made  by  Tunisia  and  Egypt  and 
calls  on  the  international  community  to  support  the 
efforts of those two brotherly peoples on the complex, 
promising and sensitive path of democratic transition. 

Morocco also expresses welcomes the delegation 
of the National Transitional Council of the new Libya, 
which aspires to a better future based on transparency, 
reconciliation  and  consolidation  of  the  rule  of  law.  In 
light  of  the  solidarity  and  brotherly  links  between  the 
peoples of Morocco and Libya, Morocco has from the 
very  beginning  supported  the  legitimate  aspirations  of 
the  Libyan  people  and  the  actions  of  the  National 
Transitional  Council  at  the  national  and  international 
levels. 

Morocco  is  also  confident  that  Libya  will  regain 
its  natural  international  position  within  the  Maghreb 
countries.  Moreover,  Morocco  hopes  to  see  concerted 
Arab action to prevent further bloodshed and guarantee 
peaceful resolution of the crises in brotherly Syria and 
Yemen  through  the  announced  profound,  substantive 
reforms  and  based  on  territorial  integrity  and  ensured 
stability. 

Those  aspirations  and  changes  reflect  the  free 
will of the peoples and require the effective and serious 
support  of  their  Arab  brothers  and  partners,  in  full 
respect for their national specificities, while taking into 
account each country’s progress in the democratization 
process.  In  that  context,  Morocco  highly  appreciates 
the  Group  of  Eight’s  response  through  the  Deauville 
partnership.  

Morocco believes that, in addition to its financial 
support,  that  promising  partnership  will  act  as  an 
incentive  by  encouraging  the  five  Arab  beneficiary 
countries  to  rely  on  their  own  capacities  to  enhance 
economic  integration,  on  the  one  hand,  and  to  share 
good  experiences  and  best  practices  in  the  field  of 
democratization  and  constitutional  reforms,  on  the 
other.  Morocco  is  willing  to  work  with  its  brothers  in 
this  framework  based  on  the  progress  it  has  made  in 
political  openness  and  its  experience  in  the  field  of 
democratic  transition  and  distinctive  constitutional 
reform.  

The events and challenges in the Arab world also 
highlight  the  need  for  renewed  regional  governance 
based  on  the  effective  integration  of  harmonious  and 
coordinated  groupings,  such  as  the  Maghreb  Arab 
Union,  the  Gulf  Cooperation  Council  and  the  Agadir 
Agreement for the Establishment of a Free Trade Zone 
between  the Arabic  Mediterranean  Nations.  The  latter 
could  be  enlarged 
include  other  Arab  and 
Mediterranean countries and could extend its activities 
to  areas  of  democratic  reform  and  political  dialogue. 
This new governance seeks, under the aegis of the Arab 
League,  to  create  a  new  regional  Arab  order  with 
innovative  mechanisms  and  renewed  foundations,  to 
serve  human  development,  economic  integration  and 
democratic  openness,  and  to  prevent  conflicts  and  the 
danger of separatism. 

It is clear that a final settlement to the Palestinian 
issue  is  a  necessary  factor  in  accelerating  the  pace  of 
the  ongoing  Arab  endeavour  in  the  interests  of  all 
peoples  of  the  region.  The  question  of  Palestine  is 
today at a historical turning point. It is characterized by 
the absence of any prospect of negotiation, the ongoing 
settlement  programmes,  and  the  Israeli  policy  of 
detention,  annexation,  destruction  and  displacement, 
particularly 
in  Jerusalem,  as  well  as  collective 
punishment  and  the  disproportionate  use  of  force 
against civilians, as reported by the United Nations in 
the report on the freedom flotilla. 

Due to the rejection by the Israeli Government of 
constructive  international  initiatives  and  proposals  by 
the  sponsors  of  the  peace  process,  the  situation  has 
deteriorated, and prospects have faded for the relaunch 
of  a  serious  and  genuine  negotiating  process  on  the 
final  settlement,  in  step  with  reciprocal  commitments. 
It  is  time  for  the  United  Nations,  through  its  various 
organs and using all available mechanisms, to shoulder 
its  full  responsibility  by  enabling  the  Palestinian 
people,  under  the  leadership  of  its  National Authority, 
to achieve all its legitimate national rights, in harmony 
with  efforts 
the  foundation  of  an 
independent  Palestinian  State  and  taking  into  account 
the  momentum 
and 
recognition.  
Morocco  has  always  been  the  first  to  defend  the 

choice of peace and the brotherly Palestinian people in 
its struggle, and today it cautions against the stalemate 
in  the  peace  process,  its  underlying  dangers  and  the 
prevalence of the logic of force. It reiterates its support 
for  the  request  of  the  Palestinian  Authority,  in  the 
to  strengthen 
support 
to 
of 
international 
46 

11-51384 
the  Al-Quds  Committee  of 
the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  welcomes 


person  of  President  Mahmoud Abbas,  for  Palestine  to 
become  a  full  Member  of  the  United  Nations  as  a 
sovereign State on the basis of the 1967 borders, with 
East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  Morocco,  under  the 
leadership  of  His  Majesty  King  Mohammed  VI, 
Chairman  of 
the 
Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation,  will  spare  no 
effort in contributing to all constructive initiatives and 
supporting  all  actions  towards  the  realization  of  that 
goal as soon as possible.  

Moreover,  our  collective  goal  should  be  the 
revival of the peace process on the basis of clear terms 
of  reference,  a  comprehensive  agenda,  a  precise  time 
frame, an innovative negotiating methodology, and the 
effective and strong involvement of the Quartet. In that 
regard, 
the 
positive  signals  in  the  recent  statement  made  by  the 
Quartet.  

Consistent  with  its  vision  of  solidarity  and 
integration in the Arab  region, Morocco is engaged in 
broad  consultations  with  the  members  of  the  Gulf 
Cooperation  Council  with  a  view  to  establishing  an 
advanced  and  substantive  partnership 
in  various 
strategic,  political,  economic,  social,  human  and 
security fields. Morocco, which has strong ties with all 
members  of  that  important  regional  group,  wishes  to 
establish  a  new  model  of  concrete  and  distinctive 
partnership 
to 
sustainable development, stability and the containment 
of  the  threats  to  the  security,  territorial  integrity  and 
high 
that  context, 
Morocco reiterates its support for the legitimate rights 
of  the  United  Arab  Emirates  with  regard  to  its  three 
occupied islands. 

Islamic, 
Morocco’s 
Mediterranean  and  African  dimensions,  as  well  as  its 
commitment to strengthening South-South cooperation, 
as  enshrined  in  its  new  Constitution,  contribute  to  the 
diversity  of  the  issues  on  which  Moroccan  foreign 
policy  is  based,  consistent  with  its  aspirations  to 
establish regional governance founded on consultation, 
dialogue  and  solidarity.  Recent  reforms  undertaken  in 
the  Maghreb  countries  could  give  new  impetus  to 
Maghreb integration, consistent with the aspirations of 
the  five  peoples  of  the  region  and  their  efforts  to 
achieve development and stability. 

In that context, Morocco has worked relentlessly 
to  activate  bilateral  relations  with  brotherly  Algeria 
interests  of  our  countries.  In 
contribute  broadly 
that  would 
Maghreb, 
Arab, 
A/66/PV.25
in 
that 
accordance  with 
the  Security  Council, 
through ministerial visits, which it hopes will pave the 
way  towards  a  comprehensive  normalization  between 
the  two  countries,  including  the  reopening  of  land 
borders 
the  principle  of 
constructive good-neighbourliness.  

Inspired by the same will, Morocco reiterates its 
full  commitment  to  pursuing  and  intensifying  the 
negotiations  to  find  a  mutually  acceptable  political 
solution  to  the  regional  dispute  over  the  Moroccan 
Sahara,  on  the  basis  of  the  Moroccan  autonomy 
initiative 
through  six 
successive  resolutions,  has  deemed  to  be  serious  and 
credible.  This  bold  and  realistic  initiative  takes  into 
consideration, within the framework of the Kingdom’s 
territorial 
integrity  and  sovereignty,  standards  of 
international  legitimacy  that  go  beyond  unilateral 
restrictive  interpretations  that  can  only  aggravate  the 
status quo and lead to deadlock. 

Security Council resolution 1979 (2011) renewed 
the  emphasis  on  the  fundamental  guidelines  of  the 
negotiating  process  by  calling  for  all  parties  to  enter 
into  substantive  and  serious  negotiations  and  to  show 
realism and a spirit of compromise to reach a midway 
solution,  while  urging  neighbouring  countries  to  fully 
engage  in  the  process  of  negotiations.  It  is  high  time 
for  each  party 
responsibilities, 
particularly in the light of the events taking place in the 
region,  with  a  view  to  working  seriously  and  in  good 
faith  to  reach  a  final  political  compromise  solution  to 
this fabricated regional dispute. There is also an urgent 
need  to  meet  the  aspirations  of  our  brothers  in  the 
camps in Tindouf, Algeria, where they are denied their 
most basic human rights and any hope for the future. 

From  this  rostrum,  I  reiterate  the  persistent  need 
to achieve effective Maghreb integration in the context 
of the Arab Maghreb Union as an open, complementary 
and democratic framework to serve the interests of the 
peoples  of  the  five  countries  —  the  Greater  Maghreb. 
Such  integration  should  contribute  in  an  effective  and 
innovative manner to the  present dynamic in the Arab 
world. The Arab Maghreb should actively contribute to 
Euro-Mediterranean  cooperation,  in  particular  in  the 
context  of  the  Union  for  the  Mediterranean,  and  to 
development  and  stability 
the  Sahelo-Saharan 
region.  It  should  be  in  the  position  to  overcome 
terrorist threats and the related dangers of transnational 
organized criminal networks. 
to  shoulder 
its 
in 
11-51384 

47 

in  United  Nations 
A/66/PV.25 


King Mohammed VI made Africa the top priority 
of  Moroccan  foreign  policy  in  October,  promoting 
cooperation  and  solidarity  in  order  to  meet  political, 
social,  economic  and  security  challenges  hampering 
comprehensive development in the continent. With the 
same commitment, Morocco has contributed positively 
to  international  and  regional  efforts  to  settle  several 
conflicts,  including  through  its  early  and  ongoing 
participation 
peacekeeping 
operations.  In  Africa,  in  particular,  Morocco  has 
actively supported transitional democratic processes in 
Guinea, Côte d’Ivoire and Niger, among others.  

Convinced of the need to develop and strengthen 
a  common  coordination  and  negotiation  mechanism 
among  African  countries,  Morocco  has  worked  in 
cooperation  with  its  African  brothers  to  launch  the 
Ministerial  Conference  of African Atlantic  States  with 
the  aim  of  optimizing  cooperation  opportunities  under 
that  common  mechanism 
to  overcome  common 
challenges,  in  particular  those  related  to  security  and 
environment. 
There  is  no  doubt  that  achieving  the  goal  of 

sustainable  development 
in  developing  countries, 
particularly  in  Africa,  remains  a  daunting  challenge, 
given 
international 
development  assistance  and  the  heavy  debt  burden  of 
developing  nations.  In  that  context,  we  support  the 
small and island countries of the Caribbean Sea and the 
Pacific  and  Indian  Oceans  in  their  efforts  under  the 
Mauritius Strategy.  

constructive 
approaches  reflecting  the  balance  between  domestic 
and foreign policy priorities, the Kingdom of Morocco 
calls on the States members of the General Assembly to 
support  its  candidacy  for  a  non-permanent  seat  in  the 
Security  Council  for  the  biennium  2012-2013,  in 
accordance  with  the  rotation  principle  of  the  African 
Group. That bid reflects Morocco’s aspirations to serve 
peace  and  stability,  strengthen  solidarity  and  uphold 
universal  ideals.  Above  all,  it  serves  the  goal  of 
maintaining international peace and security as a clear 
constitutional  commitment  of 
It 
enshrines  our  more  than  50  years  of  pioneering 
experience,  during  which  more  than  50,000  Moroccan 
peacekeepers  have 
in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping operations worldwide.  

In that context, Morocco is participating actively 
in the work of the Peacebuilding Commission, which is 
the  persistent  gap  between 
the  Kingdom. 
clear  vision 
served 
With 
that 
and 
a 
to 
the 
and 
starting 
committed 
instrument 
to  promote 
peacebuilding 
Finally,  Morocco’s  candidacy  represents 
an  effective 
international 
solidarity  with  countries  emerging  from  conflict  and 
those 
national 
reconciliation  process.  In  that  spirit  and  to  strengthen 
is  deeply  and 
its  partners  for  peace,  Morocco 
its 
transparently 
implementing 
international  obligations  on  disarmament  and 
the 
non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. 
Its  candidacy  will  support  enhanced  solidarity 

among  developing  countries 
through  South-South 
cooperation and the creation of mechanisms based on a 
new vision that will include humanitarian assistance to 
confront  natural  disasters  and 
food  crisis, 
particularly  in  sub-Saharan  African  countries,  as  well 
as  the  Caribbean  and  Pacific  island  States.  Financial 
and  technical  assistance  will  be  provided  to  the 
economic  and  social  sectors,  including  agriculture, 
health  care,  water  and  electricity.  We  currently  host 
more  than  9,000  students  from  42  countries,  among 
whom 8,000 have been granted Moroccan scholarships. 

the 
promotion  of  universal  values.  Thanks  to  its  diversity 
and  openness,  the  Kingdom  of  Morocco  has  always 
served  as  a  crossroads  of  civilizations  —  a  land  of 
peace,  tolerance  and  coexistence  among  cultures  and 
religions.  Moreover,  given  its  true  commitment  to  the 
universal  values  of  human  rights,  the  Kingdom  has 
taken  several  initiatives  aimed  at  strengthening  the 
culture  of  human  rights.  It  also  played  a  an  important 
part  in  establishing  the  Human  Rights  Council  review 
mechanisms,  given  its  leading  role  in  that  United 
Nations body.  

We  are  truly  confident  that  the  support  of  the 
members of the Assembly for the Moroccan candidacy, 
which  represents  a  specific  regional  context,  will 
provide  the  Kingdom,  during  its  mandate  in  the 
Security  Council,  with  the  distinct  opportunity  to 
address,  in  a  constructive  and  balanced  manner,  the 
sensitive  matters  on  the  Council’s  agenda  involving 
Arab and African issues.  
The  Acting  President:  I  now  call  on  His 

Excellency  Mr.  Guido  Westerwelle,  Vice-Chancellor 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs of Germany. 
Mr.  Westerwelle  (Germany)  (spoke  in  German; 

English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  Seldom  has 
people’s  yearning  for  freedom,  dignity  and  self-
determination played such a dominant role as it has this 
year.  Until  now,  we  have  experienced  globalization 
48 

11-51384 


first  and  foremost  through  the  ever-greater  integration 
of the world economy. Today, we see that globalization 
means so much more; that it has also brought  about  a 
globalization of values. Those are the values enshrined 
in  the  United  Nations  Charter,  the  inalienable  rights 
contained  in  the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human 
Rights. 

In North Africa and in the Arab world, millions of 
people  have  shaken  off  the  shackles  of  decades  of 
oppression. They want freedom, democracy and human 
rights,  as  well  as  better  lives  for  themselves  and  their 
families.  That  road  is  anything  but  easy.  A  new 
political system must mature in order to become stable. 
That  takes  time  and  patience.  However,  even  the 
longest  road  begins  with  the  very  first  step.  This  is  a 
year of momentous steps. 

We  have  not  forgotten  the  moving  images  of 
people who won dignity and self-respect by their own 
efforts,  the  proud  faces  on  Bourguiba  Boulevard  in 
Tunis and in Tahrir Square in Cairo. Those people want 
to  shape  their  own  future,  and  their  yearning  is  by  no 
means  limited  to  the  Arab  world.  In  Belarus,  too, 
people  long  for  an  end  to  repression  and  tyranny  and 
for  the  opportunity  to  fully  develop  their  individual 
personalities. 

With the fall of the Berlin Wall and reunification 
more  than  20  years  ago,  Germany  experienced  for 
itself the joy of a peaceful revolution. Today we have a 
fundamental  interest  in  the  success  of  the  political 
awakening  in  the  southern  Mediterranean  region.  We 
Germans offer our support for the reforms in Morocco 
and  Jordan,  the  political  awakening  in  Egypt  and 
Tunisia,  and  the  fresh  start  in  Libya  following  the 
overthrow of the dictator. 
Every country and every society will find its own 

way  into  the  modern  world,  either  through  revolution 
or  through  reform.  We  want  to  provide  advice  and 
support.  We  want  to  help  create  an  independent 
judiciary,  a  pluralistic  media  landscape,  and  a  vibrant 
civil  society.  We  want  to  help  people  come  to  terms 
with 
the 
constitutional process. Above all, however, we want to 
assist  in  the  crucial  process  of  building  a  new  social 
and economic order, for we all know that the success of 
social  change  largely  hinges  on  economic  success. 
People  who  take  to  the  streets  for  freedom  and  self-
determination  must  see  first-hand  that  they,  too,  can 
their  past  and  we  want 
to  support 
A/66/PV.25
the  credibility  of 
succeed with the help of their ideas, their creativity and 
their commitment. 

Germany is therefore  working not only for close 
partnerships but for increased market access. We want 
to  foster  change  through  increased  trade.  We  are 
offering  investments,  especially  in  the  small  and 
medium-sized enterprises that form the backbone of an 
open  and  successful  society.  Most  important  of  all, 
however,  will  be  to  offer  young  people  education  and 
training  so  that  they  can  make  the  most  of  their 
opportunities. That  is  of  key  importance  to  successful 
transitions and fresh starts in those countries. 

The courageous men and women of Syria deserve 
a  clear  sign  of  our  solidarity. The  Syrian  Government 
has responded to the legitimate demands of the Syrian 
people  with  brutal  force.  Germany  will  continue  to 
press for a Security Council resolution. This is not only 
about  showing  solidarity  with  the  Syrian  people;  it  is 
also  about 
international 
community. If the  repression continues, we Europeans 
will  further  tighten  sanctions  against  the  regime.  The 
Syrian people should be free to shape their own future. 

This week has been dominated by the unresolved 
conflict  in  the  Middle  East.  On  Friday  here  in  New 
York,  President  Abbas  expressed  the  Palestinians’ 
expectations  and  understandable  frustration  with  the 
lack  of  progress  made  (see A/66/PV.19).  On  the  same 
day,  Prime  Minister  Netanyahu  reaffirmed  Israel’s 
justified desire to exist in peace within secure borders 
(see A/66/PV.19). Both sides have legitimate interests. 
However, 
not 
irreconcilable.  They  can  be  overcome  if  the  parties 
involved are willing to do so. 
Germany  is  backing  a  two-State  solution.  We 

the 
support  a  Palestinian  State 
Palestinians  to  live  in  dignity  and  self-determination 
and  that  is  independent,  sovereign,  contiguous  and 
democratic,  as  well  as  politically  and  economically 
viable. Over the past few years, we have been heavily 
involved in the practical development of this statehood 
by  helping  to  build  an  administration,  infrastructure 
and  vocational  training,  as  well  as  politically,  in  the 
German-Palestinian  Steering  Committee.  And  we  do 
not  want  that  State  to  be  founded  sometime  in  the 
distant and indeterminate future. 

Let there be no doubt, however, that the security 
of  Israel  is  and  will  continue  to  be  part  of  the  raison 
d’être  of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Germany.  Peace 
that  will  allow 
these 
the 
interests 
are 
certainly 
11-51384 

49 
Israelis, 
to  enter 
A/66/PV.25 

between  Israelis  and  Palestinians 
is  possible.  A 
Palestinian  State  is  possible.  Two  States  existing 
peacefully side by side are possible. However, they can 
be  achieved  only  through  negotiations.  The  statement 
issued by the Middle East Quartet on Friday identified 
the  milestones  along  the  way.  Germany  worked  hard 
for that Quartet statement and staunchly supports it. 

The  confrontation  of  words  here  in  New  York 
must not be allowed to lead to an escalation in violence 
in  the  Middle  East.  I  therefore  call  on  both  sides, 
Palestinians  and 
into  direct 
negotiations  without  delay.  On  Friday,  the  two  sides 
reaffirmed their desire for a negotiated peace. The task 
now  is  to  channel  the  energy  and  pressure  of  recent 
days  into  a  constructive  process.  The  two  sides  have 
been  called  on  to  come  forward  within  three  months 
with comprehensive proposals on territory and security, 
and  to  refrain  from  all  provocative  actions.  The 
international  community  will  continue  to  support  the 
difficult  road  to  peace.  This  includes  the  Moscow 
conference as part of the negotiating timetable for the 
coming months. 

I  would  like  to  express  my  appreciation  to  all 
who have worked so hard in the past few days to create 
this  opportunity  for  a  constructive  solution.  As  a 
European, I would like to extend my special thanks to 
the  European  Union’s  High  Representative,  Lady 
Ashton.  Let  us  make  use  of  the  impetus  provided  by 
the intensive efforts here in New York for the benefit of 
the people of Israel and the Palestinian territories. 

community  has  worked 
tirelessly for years to ensure that Afghanistan ceases to 
harbour  a  threat  to  international  peace  and  security. 
Many,  indeed  too  many  people  have  already  lost  their 
lives as a result of that threat. On 5 December in Bonn, 
under Afghanistan’s chairmanship, we will discuss the 
way forward. The Conference will focus on three major 
issues.  The 
the  complete  handover  of 
responsibility  for  security.  This  summer  saw  the  start 
of  a  process  whereby  the  Afghans  are  to  gradually 
assume  responsibility  for  security  in  their  country  by 
2014. This is a responsible handover of responsibility. 

international  community  will 
remain engaged in Afghanistan after 2014. Afghanistan 
will  continue  to  need  economic  initiatives  and  more 
regional cooperation to help strengthen its sovereignty. 
The New Silk Road initiative, which we launched here 
in New York last week, is intended to serve this aim.  
international 
Secondly, 
first 
is 
The 
the 

the 

Thirdly, Afghanistan’s internal reconciliation and 
support from States in the region are critical to lasting 
peace. The brutal murder of former President Rabbani 
shows  that  the  reconciliation  process  will  continue  to 
suffer  setbacks.  Nevertheless,  it  must  and  will  go  on. 
Germany will play its part on the road to Bonn. 

While people are seizing the opportunity to build 
a  better  future  for  themselves  in  freedom  and  self-
determination in a growing number of countries around 
the world, millions in the Horn of Africa are struggling 
to  survive.  The  United  Nations  has  played  a  valuable 
role 
in  providing  swift  humanitarian  assistance. 
Germany  is  doing  everything  in  its  power  in  this  and 
many other crises to alleviate the suffering. 

The collapse of State authority and the impact of 
climate  change  are  aggravating  the  already  disastrous 
situation. Germany will continue to be in the vanguard 
of 
fight  against  climate  change.  As  with 
disarmament  and  nuclear  non-proliferation,  as  well  as 
the  protection  of  human  rights,  the  fight  against 
climate  change  is  an  integral  element  of  preventive 
diplomacy. It is part of a farsighted peace policy. 
By the end of this year, our planet will have more 

than 7 billion inhabitants. In that world, Germany will 
place  its  hopes  in  a  strong  United  Nations  as  a  forum 
for political consensus-building, a source of rules with 
international  legitimacy,  and  a  player  in  the  crisis 
regions of this world. The United Nations Charter and 
the Universal Declaration of Human Rights offer more 
people  than  ever  before  the  direction  and  inspiration 
they need to strive for a cooperative world order and a 
fairer global community. 

However, the United Nations has to adapt to our 
changing  world.  Only  then  will  the  decisions  made 
here gain political force, effectiveness and acceptance. 
New centres of power are  emerging in  global politics. 
Their  economic  dynamism  has  prompted  them  to 
demand  political  participation.  The  sixty-fifth  session 
of  the  General  Assembly  considered  United  Nations 
reform, but no real progress has been  achieved so  far. 
We welcome the fact that the new President intends to 
again  personally  champion  this  reform.  We  will  do 
everything we can to him. 

In  September  38  years  ago,  two  German  States 
were admitted to the United Nations. At that time, my 
predecessor  in  office, Walter  Scheel,  stated  before  the 
Assembly: 
50 

11-51384 



to 
sincerely 
“Where  there  is  a  question  of  international 
cooperation,  of  preserving  peace 
and  of 
protecting  the  rights  of  man,  there  the  Federal 
Republic  of  Germany  will  always  be  found.  If 
there  is  anything  we  have  learned  from  our  own 
bitter experience it is this: man is the measure of 
all things”. 
Man  is  the  measure  of  all  things.  Germany 
and  warmly 
session.  We 

remains committed to this principle. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 

call  on  His  Excellency  Mr.  Yousef  Bin  Al-Alawi  Bin 
Abdulla,  Minister  of  State  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  the 
Sultanate of Oman. 
Mr. Abdulla  (Oman)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  We  are 

congratulate 
pleased 
Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser  on  his  election  to  the 
presidency  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth 
session and to his brotherly country, Qatar, with which 
we share deep fraternal relations. We are confident that 
his  diplomatic  experience,  especially  in  the  field  of 
multilateral diplomacy, will have a great impact on the 
success  of  this  session.  We  wish  also  to  express  our 
appreciation  to  his  predecessor,  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss  of 
Switzerland, for his successful efforts in the conduct of 
the 
our 
congratulations  to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  on 
the  international  community’s  renewed  confidence  in 
him,  as  evidenced  by  his  re-election  to  his  post  for  a 
second  term,  so  that  he  can  continue  his  efforts  to 
revitalize  the  role  of  the  United  Nations  and  further 
develop its work. 

Each  year,  when  we  address  the Assembly  from 
this  rostrum,  we  begin  by  presenting  the  issue  of  the 
Palestinian  people.  The  international  community  has 
worked 
the 
Palestinian  National Authority  and  the  Government  of 
Israel, 
the 
situation  remains  at  a  standstill.  For  that  reason,  the 
global  community,  and 
in 
particular, should act to fulfil its responsibility to find a 
just  and  comprehensive  solution.  We  believe  that  the 
establishment of a Palestinian State on the basis of the 
borders of 4 June 1967 and the recognition of that State 
as a Member of the Organization will undoubtedly lead 
to serious negotiations aimed at reaching a just, lasting 
and  comprehensive  solution 
the  Arab-Israeli 
conflict. 
the  occupying  Power.  Unfortunately, 
to  encourage  negotiations  between 
the  United  Nations 
previous 
also 
extend 
to 
A/66/PV.25
of 
the  Organization 

Brotherly  Somalia  has  been  the  victim  of  a 
decades-long  civil  war  caused  by  a  weak  leadership 
that  failed  to  reach  a  political  consensus  to  end  that 
hateful war. We believe that, to save the Somali people 
from  the  threefold  threat  of  poverty,  ignorance  and 
famine,  the  time  is  ripe  for  the  United  Nations  to 
intensify  its  efforts,  in  cooperation  with  regional 
organizations, including the League of Arab States, the 
African  Union, 
Islamic 
Cooperation  and  the  Inter-Governmental Authority  on 
Development,  to  devise  a  plan  to  bring  peace  to 
Somalia.  We  would  also  stress  the  importance  of 
increasing  the  provision  of  humanitarian  assistance  to 
the millions of Somali refugees and displaced persons. 
We  are  confident  that  Somalia’s  neighbours  share  our 
belief in the need for political solutions to the chronic 
crisis in that country. We also reiterate to the Secretary-
General  that  we  are  fully  prepared  to  support  the 
efforts of the United Nations in that regard. 
On  26  January  2011,  my  country  submitted  its 

periodic report to the Human Rights Council in Geneva 
in the context of the mechanism for the periodic review 
of  States’  reports.  We  in  the  Sultanate  of  Oman  are 
satisfied  that  we  have  come  a  long  way  in  terms  of 
protecting human rights at all levels. We consider this a 
national  and  spiritual  commitment  aimed  at  achieving 
justice  that  also  supports  the  dimension  of  a  global 
culture of human rights protection. 

Our  contemporary  world  is  witnessing  profound 
changes in the demographic composition of the peoples 
of  the  world,  as  young  people  now  constitute  the 
majority of the world population. As they are the most 
ambitious  group,  capable  of  mapping  the  future,  the 
international  community  should  take  this  reality  into 
consideration in the elaboration of all manner of plans 
in 
sustainable 
development fields. 

As  our  region  is  experiencing  such  profound 
changes, we, like the rest of the world, believe that the 
aspirations of young people to a better and more secure 
world  and  decent  livelihoods  have  prevailed  and 
should be accepted and welcomed by all Governments. 
We  in  the  Sultanate  of  Oman,  in  keeping  with  the 
instructions  given  by  His  Majesty  Sultan  Qaboos  Bin 
Said,  have  based  all  of  our  national  economic  and 
social  plans  on  empowering  young  people  to  make 
maximum  use  of  their  potential  to  benefit  from 
technology  and  to  achieve  a  society  characterized  by 
prosperity and sustainable growth. 
economic, 
education 
and 
the 
11-51384 

51 
to 

floor 

rethink 
increase  yields  and 
A/66/PV.25 


Today’s  world  is  facing  numerous  crises  that 
make  it  imperative  for  the international  community  to 
work jointly to create conditions that are conducive to 
finding solutions. The world may be on the brink of a 
widespread food crisis, and many people live in fear of 
food  shortages.  Efforts  must  therefore  be  made  at  the 
international  level  to  expand  production  through  the 
cultivation  of  larger  areas  and  the  use  of  advanced 
technology 
to  combat 
desertification in vulnerable areas. 

The  continuing  global  financial  crisis  obliges  us 
to  collectively 
the  principles  underlying 
investment  and  international  trade  in  order  to  reach 
appropriate  solutions  aimed  at  reducing  the  negative 
impacts  of  the  crisis  on  countries  and  societies, 
particularly in the developing world.  

An additional issue we must face is that of global 
phenomena  such  as  hurricanes,  earthquakes  and  the 
high level of environmental pollution, all of which lead 
to  major  human  and  economic  losses. We  believe  that 
all  countries,  particularly  the  major  industrialized 
countries, should join together to find a solution aimed 
at reducing industrial and environmental pollution and 
greenhouse-gas emissions based on modern technology 
in those fields. 

In  closing,  we  are  hopeful  that  all  countries  will 
seize the opportunity offered by the current session to 
take  practical  steps  and  measures  on  all  of  the  issues 
under  discussion.  We  hope  that  the  session  will  meet 
with every success. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  now 

give 
to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Walid 
the 
Al-Moualem, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the Syrian 
Arab Republic. 
Mr. Al-Moualem  (Syrian Arab  Republic)  (spoke 

in  Arabic):  Allow  me  to  congratulate  Mr.  Nassir 
Abdulaziz Al-Nasser  on  his  election  to  the  presidency 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  this  session.  I  wish  him 
every success in his efforts to promote the interests of 
our international Organization. I also pay tribute to his 
predecessor, Mr. Joseph Deiss, and express to him our 
gratitude and appreciation for his successful presidency 
of the Assembly last year. 

It is only natural that I should start by addressing 
the  current  situation  in  Syria,  our  position  in  that 
regard  and  the  circumstances  and  events  unfolding 
inside  and  outside  of  our  country.  There  is  no  doubt 
that  States’  positions  and  circumstances  are  governed 
by  their  geopolitical  realities,  related  problems  and 
demands  stemming  therefrom. At  the  same  time,  they 
are influenced by repercussions and the price they have 
to  pay,  whether  high  or  low,  resulting  from  positions 
they take in response to those issues.  

The  Syrian Arab  Republic  is  located  at  the  heart 
of 
the  Middle  East  region.  Syria’s 
location  has 
determined  its  major  role  in  the  politics  and  balances 
of the Arab world and the region in general. For many 
decades,  Syria  faced  major  challenges  and  difficulties 
with a firm stance against attempts to limit its role and 
influence  and  divert  it  from  the  national  course  it  had 
charted.  It  is  no  secret  that  Syria  has  stood  firm  in 
support of national sovereignty and independence in its 
national  decisions  —  a  position  that  has  remained  a 
primary pillar of Syrian foreign policy. 

Syria  has  spared  no  effort  in  support  of  the 
legitimate  struggle  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  in 
championing  resistance  movements.  Syria  has  upheld 
its  inalienable  right  to  liberate  the  entire  occupied 
Syrian  Golan  to  the  line  of  4  June  1967. At  the  same 
time,  Syria  has  extended  a  hand  of  friendship  to  all 
States  and  established  its  international  relations  based 
on  mutual  respect  and  mutual  interests.  Through 
leverage,  it  has  promoted  the  centrepiece  of  Syria’s 
national  priorities  and  established  policies,  namely  on 
the Middle East question, in efforts to liberate the land 
and restore the rights of the people. 

Syria  was  dragged  into  another  confrontation 
following  the  occupation  of  Iraq.  It  had  to  choose 
between  enduring  political  siege  and  isolation  or 
submitting  to  demands. Again  Syria  summoned  all  of 
its  might  to  overcome  such  a  policy,  despite  the 
exorbitant  price  we  had  to  pay  at  the  expense  of  our 
domestic priorities and interests. We emerged stronger 
from  that  battle,  having  preserved  our  independent 
decisions and safeguarded our national priorities. 

There  are  two  sides  to  the  problem  that  Syria 
faces  today.  On  the  one  hand,  the  country  needs 
people-driven  political,  economic  and  social  reform. 
President  Bashar  Al-Assad  has  already  declared  that 
those reforms are needed and timely. He has expressed 
a strong desire to accomplish them. But the force of the 
political  circumstances  to  which  I  briefly  alluded  to 
earlier  forced  internal  demands  —  important  as  they 
were  —  to  take  a  back  seat  to  other  priorities.  Our 
52 

11-51384 
through  actions 


overriding  priority  was  to  address  external  pressures 
that at times were tantamount to blatant conspiracy. 

On  the  other  hand,  popular  demands  and  needs 
have been manipulated to further objectives alien to the 
interests  and  expressed  desires  of  the  Syrian  people. 
Those  demands  have  become  stepping  stones  used  by 
armed  groups  to  sow  discord  and  to  sabotage  our 
security, eventually becoming a new pretext for foreign 
intervention.  
Syria has assumed its responsibility to protect its 

to  guarantee  safety  and 
citizens 
stability.  It  remains  vigilant  against  the  danger  of 
foreign  intervention,  which  takes  on  different  forms 
with  each  passing  day.  Challenging  that  does  not 
diminish  our  concern  for  popular  demands  that  were 
already  accommodated  prior  to  the  recent  events.  In 
our  view,  the  needed  reforms  are  those  that  are  now 
due,  many  elements  of  which  have  been  already  met. 
They are a work in progress that will continue through 
national  dialogue  and  in  the  context  of  national  unity, 
sovereignty and independence. 

To shed more light on the situation, I would recall 
at  this  juncture  the  statement  made  by  President 
Al-Assad  on  20  June.  In  his  statement,  the  President 
the 
announced  many  reform  measures  based  on 
following  new 
the  political  parties  act 
to 
guarantee political pluralism; the information act to lay 
the  ground  for  free  and  independent  media;  the 
parliamentary elections act and the local administration 
act. The proposed reform measures were to be finalized 
by  a  thorough  examination  and  review  of  the  Syrian 
Constitution.  The  review  could  eliminate  certain 
articles to allow for political pluralism and democratic 
practices.  It  could  even  lead  to  the  framing  of  a  new 
Constitution that would guarantee all of these things.  

The constitution is the backbone of the  political, 
economic  and  social  life  of  all  States.  That  reform 
measure  will  definitely  respond  to  popular  demands 
and  needs.  Furthermore,  the  President  left  the  door 
open  to  different  views  and  proposals  on  the  reform 
effort  in  general.  In  the  televised  interview  that 
followed,  the  President  announced  that  a  timeline  had 
been  set  to  agree  on  and  implement  the  proposed 
reforms  in  no  more  than  six  months.  That  is  an 
extremely important position that requires a serious, in-
depth national dialogue in order to achieve the desired 
mechanisms and results.  
laws: 
A/66/PV.25
political, 
and 
economic 

A  comprehensive  dialogue  started  a  few  weeks 
ago in various Syrian governorates. Representatives of 
various sectors of Syrian society, including opposition 
figures, are participating in the process to examine the 
comprehensive 
social 
components of the proposed reform package. 

We  deeply  regret  the  surge  in  foreign-inspired 
activities  of  armed  groups  in  Syria,  which  have  not 
waned and have instead continued to gain momentum. 
That is the other side of the coin. We would have liked 
for those countries that advocated the need for reform 
and  change  to  have  supported  the  official  Syrian 
position  instead  of  having  opted  for  incitement  and 
defiance.  In  fact,  the  more  ground  we  have  covered 
towards  stability  and  reform,  the  stronger  the  foreign 
incitement  has  become. Armed  violence  has  surged  in 
tandem with multiple economic sanctions. By targeting 
the  Syrian  economy  with  sanctions,  the  United  States 
and the European Union have jeopardized the interests 
and basic daily subsistence needs of the Syrian people.  

This  course  of  action  cannot  in  any  way  be 
reconciled with pronouncements about concern for the 
interests,  security  and  rights  of  the  Syrian  people. 
Furthermore,  it  runs  counter  to  the  basic  principles  of 
human  rights,  in  defence  of  which  those  States  base 
their  interference  in  our  internal  affairs.  It  must  be 
recalled that the Charter of our Organization states that 
“Nothing  contained 
the  present  Charter  shall 
authorize  the  United  Nations  to  intervene  in  matters 
which  are  essentially  within  the  domestic  jurisdiction 
of any state”.  

Syria  provided  our  region  with  a  model  of 
peaceful  coexistence  among  the  different  segments  of 
the  Syrian  population,  a  model  which  deserves  to  be 
emulated.  Syria  opted  for  secularism  to  promote  its 
national  unity  in  view  of  the  religious  and  ethnic 
diversity  of  the  region  to  which  it  belongs,  a  region 
that is the cradle of divine religions and the birthplace 
of human civilization. 

Any objective and realistic analysis of the events 
in  and  around  Syria  will  demonstrate  clearly  that  one 
of  the  purposes  of  the  unjust  anti-Syria  campaign 
currently  under  way  is  to  attack 
this  model  of 
coexistence,  which  has  been  a  source  of  pride  to  our 
people.  How  can  we  otherwise  explain  media 
provocations  of 
religious 
extremism?  What  purpose  could  that  serve  other  than 
total  chaos,  which  would  dismember  Syria  —  and 
financing  and  arming 
in 
11-51384 

53 
stability 
and 
to 
and 
implement 
the  different  segments  of 
A/66/PV.25 

consequently  adversely  affect  its  neighbours?  What 
else  could  this  course  of  action  achieve  other  than  to 
spread Western  hegemony  throughout  the  countries  of 
the  Mediterranean  and  to  serve  Israel’s  expansionist 
interests? 

I  assure  the  Assembly  that  our  people  are 
determined to reject all forms of foreign intervention in 
their  internal  affairs.  We  shall  continue  to  achieve 
security 
the 
comprehensive  programme  of  reform  through  national 
dialogue  so  that,  within  months,  Syria  will  become  a 
model  of  political  pluralism  and  an  oasis  for  peaceful 
coexistence  among 
its 
population. 

From  this  rostrum,  I  call  on  the  States  that  have 
participated  in  the  unjust  campaign  against  Syria  to 
reconsider  their  positions. To  them  I  say,  “Our  people 
will  not  let  you  implement  your  plans  and  will  foil 
your schemes”. 

I  also  express  our  appreciation  to  the  countries 
that  have  stood  by  our  people’s  side  in  this  crisis, 
pre-empting  any  harm  that  could  have  befallen  their 
interests  and  encouraging 
their 
aspirations. 

For many years, the international community has 
considered  the  two-State  solution  as  the  basis  for 
establishing  peace  between 
the 
Palestinians.  The  negotiations  between  the  two  sides 
that  have  continued  for  years  have  failed  to  achieve 
any progress towards a solution owing to Israel’s well-
known  positions  and  measures.  Therefore, 
the 
international community’s pursuit of the recognition of  

the  Israelis  and 
to  pursue 
them 

the  Palestinian 
a  Palestinian  State  on 
territories 
occupied  in  1967,  with  Jerusalem  as  its  capital,  is 
legitimate.  It  is  a  positive  step  towards  restoring  all 
Palestinian  rights.  Syria  calls  on  the  international 
community  to  support  that  request.  We  also  condemn 
the  Israeli  blockade  of  Gaza  and  call  on 
the 
international  community  to  shoulder  its  responsibility 
and force Israel to lift the blockade.  

Our  position  on  declaring  the  Middle  East  a 
nuclear-weapon-free  zone  is  well  established  and  well 
known.  We  continue  to  call  for  bringing  pressure  to 
bear  on  Israel  to  implement  international  resolutions 
that  have  called  on  it  to  accede  to  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  (NPT)  and  to 
submit its nuclear facilities to the International Atomic 
Energy  Agency’s  comprehensive  safeguards  regime. 
This measure is of extreme importance  to the security 
and stability of our region. At the same time, we stress 
that  all  States  have  the  right  to  acquire  nuclear 
technologies  for  peaceful  purposes.  That  right  is 
guaranteed under the NPT. 

that has been enforced against Cuba for decades. 

We  all  aspire  to  a  more  just  and  secure  world. 
This international Organization has a major role to play 
in  that  regard.  It  can  do  so  more  competently  if  some 
powerful  States  gave  up  attempts  to  further  their  own 
agendas.  Nevertheless,  we 
the 
international  community,  through  this  Organization, 
will  be  able  to  follow  the  right  course  so  as  to  bring 
about a better world, to which our peoples aspire. 


We  strongly  renew  the  call  to  lift  the  embargo 
  The meeting rose at 2:40 p.m. 
still  hope 
that 
54 

11-51384 
