
A/66/PV.44
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

44th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 26 October 2011, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 
referred 
the  situation 

Today  I  would  like  to  brief  the Assembly  on  the 
main  developments  at  the  ICC  and  highlight  the 
relevance of the Court’s work in support of the global 
efforts to protect human rights and promote the rule of 
law. 

Let  me  first  update  the  Assembly  on  the  main 
developments  on  the  judicial  front.  The  number  of 
situations  under  ICC  investigation  has  risen  from  five 
to  seven  during  the  past  year.  On  26  February,  the 
Security  Council,  in  response  to  the  conflict  in  the 
Libyan  Arab  Jamahiriya  and  what  it  called  the  gross 
and systematic violation of human rights, unanimously 
adopted  resolution  1970  (2011),  which,  among  other 
measures, 
in  Libya  since 
15 February  2011  to  the  Prosecutor  of  the  ICC. 
Following  the  Prosecutor’s  investigation,  the  Court’s 
Pre-Trial  Chamber  issued  warrants  of  arrest  against 
Muammar  Al-Qadhafi,  Saif  Al-Islam  Al-Qadhafi  and 
Abdullah al-Senussi on 27 June. 

Since  the  filing  of  the  ICC’s  written  report,  the 
Court  has  authorized  investigations  into  a  seventh 
situation, that of Côte d’Ivoire. While not a State party 
to the Rome Statute, Côte d’Ivoire accepted the ICC’s 
jurisdiction in 2003, and President Ouattara confirmed 
that  decision  in  December,  pledging  full  cooperation 
with the Court. Following a request by the Prosecutor, 
the ICC’s Pre-Trial Chamber authorized, on 3 October 
2011,  an  investigation  into  alleged  crimes  committed 
since  28  November  2010,  in  the  wake  of  presidential 
elections in Côte d’Ivoire. 





  The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 




Agenda item 75
Report of the International Criminal Court 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/66/309) 

  Report of the Secretary-General (A/66/333) 


The  President:  It  is  now  my  great  honour  to 
welcome  to  the  United  Nations  Mr.  Sang-Hyun  Song, 
President of the International Criminal Court, and give 
him the floor. 
Mr.  Sang-Hyun  Song  (International  Criminal 

Court):  I  am  honoured  to  address  this  forum  for  the 
third and final time in my current mandate as President 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC).  This  has 
been  a  year  of  significant  developments  for  the  ICC. 
With two new investigations and several new cases, the 
Court is busier than ever. At the same time, trials have 
progressed well and the first verdicts are expected very 
soon. 

I  am  delighted  to  say  that  international  support 
for  the  ICC  has  continued  to  grow.  Five  States  have 
newly joined the Rome Statute, bringing the number of 
States parties to 119. While the ICC is an independent 
organization,  its  relationship  and  cooperation  with  the 
United  Nations  have  continued  to  be  as  vital  as  ever, 
and it is my great pleasure today to present the Court’s 
seventh  annual  report  to  the  General  Assembly  (see 
A/66/309). 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-56550 (E) 
*1156550* 


is  nearing 
The  presentation  of  evidence 
A/66/PV.44 


The  ICC’s  first  trial  concluded  in  August  with 
closing statements in the case against Thomas Lubanga 
Dyilo,  who  had  been  charged  with  the  use  of  child 
soldiers  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo. 
Judgement  in  this  case  is  expected  before  the  end  of 
the year. 

its 
conclusion in the second trial arising from the situation 
in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  concerning 
charges  against  Germain  Katanga  and  Mathieu 
Ngudjolo  Chui  for  the  use  of  child  soldiers,  rape, 
murder  and  other  crimes. A  judgement  is  likely  to  be 
issued in the first half of next year. 

The  ICC’s  third  trial  opened  in  November  last 
year  against  Jean-Pierre  Bemba,  who  is  charged  as  a 
military  commander  with  rape,  murder  and  pillaging 
allegedly  committed  in  the  Central  African  Republic. 
The trial has progressed well, and the prosecution case 
is at an advanced stage. 

We  also  have  a  fourth  trial  under  preparation, 
stemming  from  the  situation  in  Darfur,  Sudan.  War 
crimes  charges  in  connection  with  an  attack  on  an 
African  Union  mission  were  confirmed  against 
Abdallah Banda and Saleh Jerbo in March. The process 
of  disclosure  of  evidence  in  this  particular  case 
illustrates  some  of  the  many  challenges  the  ICC  faces 
in order to secure a fair trial. The evidence is required 
to  be  translated  into  Zaghawa,  as  the  accused  do  not 
fully  understand  and  speak  any  other 
language. 
However, there are virtually no professional translators 
or  interpreters  for  Zaghawa,  and  the  ICC  has  had  to 
hire  and  train  native  speakers  to  reach  the  required 
level of proficiency to provide language support. 

The  proceedings  on  the  situation  in  Kenya  have 
progressed significantly in the past year. There are two 
cases, each involving three senior persons alleged to be 
responsible for murder, persecution and other crimes in 
connection  with  the  violence  that  erupted  in  Kenya 
following  elections  held  in  December  2007.  All  six 
individuals  complied  with  summonses  issued  by  the 
Pre-Trial  Chamber  in  March  and  voluntarily  came  to 
the  Court,  first  in April  for  an  initial  appearance,  and 
again  in  September  for  more  substantive  hearings  on 
the  confirmation  of  charges.  In  January  at  the  latest, 
the Pre-Trial Chamber will issue its rulings on whether 
the cases should proceed to trial. 

a 
In the context of the Kenya situation, the ICC set 
the  Kenyan 
legal  precedent  by  dismissing 
in 
is 
conducting 
the  Kivu  region  of 
Government’s  challenge  against  the  admissibility  of 
the two cases. The Pre-Trial Chamber and the Appeals 
Chamber both held that the Government of Kenya had 
failed to provide sufficient evidence to substantiate that 
it  was  investigating  the  six  suspects  for  the  crimes 
alleged in the proceedings at the ICC. 

A decision on the confirmation of charges is also 
pending  in  the  case  against  Callixte  Mbarushimana, 
the  civilian  population 
charged  with  attacks  on 
allegedly  committed 
the 
Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  in  2009.  He  was 
arrested last year by the French authorities, and I thank 
France for this valuable cooperation with the ICC. 

In addition to the seven investigations, the Office 
of 
the  Prosecutor 
preliminary 
examinations 
regarding  Afghanistan,  Colombia, 
Georgia, Guinea, Honduras, Nigeria, Palestine and the 
Republic  of  Korea,  as  well  as  receiving  information 
concerning  many  other  countries.  Such  situations, 
however,  do  not  necessarily  evolve  into  formal  ICC 
investigations,  particularly  if  the  competent  national 
authorities  investigate  the  crimes  and  prosecute  the 
alleged offenders. 

When I spoke before the Assembly last year (see 
A/65/PV.39),  I  expressed  my  deep  concern  over  the 
fact that the ICC’s arrest warrants for Joseph Kony and 
three  other  alleged  commanders  of 
the  Lord’s 
Resistance Army  had  been  outstanding  for  more  than 
five  years  in  the  situation  in  Uganda.  Unfortunately, 
that  remains  the  case,  and  the  same  applies  to  Bosco 
Ntaganda  in  the  situation  in  the  Democratic  Republic 
of  the  Congo.  In  the  situation  in  Darfur,  the  arrest 
warrants  against  President Al-Bashir,  as  well  as  those 
against  Ahmad  Harun  and  Ali  Kushayb,  remain 
outstanding. 

This is deeply distressing for the victims as well 
as  the  international  community.  I  implore  States  to 
redouble  their  efforts  to  bring  the  persons  in  question 
to justice. I also wish to recall that the Security Council 
has urged all Member States to cooperate with the ICC 
with respect to the situation in Darfur, Sudan, and the 
situation in Libya. 
Explaining  to  victims  why  some  arrest  warrants 

have  not  yet  been 
the 
challenging  tasks  of  the  ICC’s  outreach  programme. 
Every week, often in remote towns and villages of the 
situation  countries,  outreach  meets  with  hundreds  of 
people,  making  the  process  of  justice  more  accessible 
implemented 
is  one  of 
2 

11-56550 
in 
received  more 
as  participants 


and  understandable  to  those  affected  by  the  crimes 
under  the  Court’s  jurisdiction.  Special  sessions  are 
organized 
for  groups  consisting  of  women  and 
children.   I  have  personally  had  the  privilege  of 
participating  in  outreach  activities  in  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  and  Uganda.  I  was  deeply 
moved  by  the  victims’  struggle  to  rebuild  their  lives, 
and by their cries for relief and justice. 

The concern for the plight of victims is reflected 
in the various ways in which victims are empowered by 
the  Rome  Statute 
judicial 
proceedings,  as  recipients  of  reparations  following  a 
Court  conviction,  and  as  beneficiaries  of  victims’ 
assistance provided by the Trust Fund for Victims that 
is associated with the ICC. 

Working  in  the  situation  countries,  the  ICC 
informs victims about their rights and helps them turn 
the  possibilities  offered  by  the  Rome  Statute  into 
concrete  action.  During  the  past  12  months  alone,  the 
ICC  has 
than  10,000  victims’ 
applications  for  participation  or  reparation.  Legal 
assistance provided by the ICC has made it possible for 
thousands  of  victims  to  participate  in  the  proceedings 
through their lawyers. More than four years of victims’ 
assistance  in  northern  Uganda  and  the  Democratic 
Republic  of  the  Congo  have  seen  the  Trust  Fund  for 
Victims mature into a solid institution. By recognizing 
the  particular  needs  of  victims  of  the  most  serious 
crimes,  for  instance  for  reconstructive  surgery  and 
trauma-based counselling, the Trust Fund has been able 
to articulate a truly human dimension to the process of 
international criminal justice. 

As  the  ICC’s  first  judgments  are  drawing  closer, 
we  may  in  the  coming  year  see  also  the  first-ever 
judicial decisions by the ICC on reparations to victims. 
When that moment comes, the Trust Fund for Victims 
will  have  an  important  role  to  play,  both  as  an 
implementing  agency  for  Court-ordered  reparations 
and as a possible source of complementary financing of 
reparations awards, in the case that a convicted person 
is found indigent. 

Five  countries  have  acceded  to  or  ratified  the 
Rome  Statute  in  2011,  which  is  more  than  during  any 
single  year  since  2003.  I  would  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  extend  a  warm  welcome  to  Grenada, 
Tunisia,  the  Philippines,  Maldives  and  Cape  Verde, 
which have taken that important step during the last six 
months.  I  thank  all  those  that  facilitate  informed 
A/66/PV.44
like 
tribute 
to  pay 
discussions about the Rome Statute in different parts of 
the  world,  for  instance  Qatar,  which  hosted  the  first 
regional conference on the ICC for the Middle East and 
North Africa region in May. 

Many  important  decisions  are  carried  out  by  the 
States  parties,  including  amendments  to  the  Rome 
Statute  and  the  election  of  the  highest  officials  of  the 
Court.  The  forthcoming  session  of  the  Assembly  of 
States Parties in December here in New York will be of 
particular significance, because for the first time since 
the  Court’s  establishment,  both  a  prosecutor  and  six 
new judges will be elected. 

An important change will  also occur  at the helm 
of the Assembly of States Parties, which will receive a 
new  President.  I  would 
to 
Ambassador  Christian  Wenaweser, 
the  Permanent 
Representative of Liechtenstein to the United Nations, 
who has provided excellent leadership of the Assembly 
for  the  past  three  years,  and  to  welcome Ambassador 
Tiina 
Intelmann  of  Estonia,  who  has  been 
recommended  by  the  Bureau  of  the  Assembly  as  his 
successor. 
A  month  ago,  the  Secretary-General  pronounced 

from  this  rostrum  that  “[t]o  prevent  violations  of 
human  rights,  we  must  work  for  the  rule  of  law  and 
impunity”  (A/66/PV.11,  page  2).  I 
stand  against 
wholeheartedly  agree  with 
this  statement,  which 
highlights  the  relevance  of  the  Rome  Statute  and  the 
ICC  to  wider  international  efforts  to  protect  human 
rights  and  promote  the  rule  of  law.  Indeed,  the 
preamble  to  the  Rome  Statute  sets  out  the  Court’s 
objectives, several of which overlap with the purposes 
of the United Nations. The common objectives of these 
two institutions include the prevention and punishment 
of  serious  international  crimes,  the  maintenance  and 
restoration  of  international  peace  and  security,  and  a 
guarantee  of  lasting  respect  for  and  enforcement  of 
international law. 

The  ICC  is  deeply  grateful  for  the  invaluable 
cooperation  we  continue  to  receive  from  the  United 
Nations  in  a  wide  variety  of  areas  ranging  from 
security  and  field  operations  to  the  exchange  of 
information  with  and  testimony  of  United  Nations 
officials. I greatly appreciate the mainstreaming of ICC 
issues  through  the  United  Nations  system,  and  the 
Organization’s  significant  support  for  strengthening 
national  capacity 
in 
to  address  atrocity  crimes 
11-56550 

3 
The  United  Nations  and 
the 
A/66/PV.44 

accordance  with  the  principle  of  complementarity 
enshrined in the Rome Statute. 

I  warmly  welcome  the  increased  focus  that  the 
United Nations is placing on the rule of law and justice 
through  regular  reports  and  discussions  here  in  the 
General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council.  I  am 
optimistic that the proposed high-level meeting on the 
rule of law to be held during the sixty-seventh session 
of  the  General  Assembly  will  give  these  discussions 
new impetus. 
international 

community  have  recognized  that  justice  is  an  integral 
element  of  conflict  resolution.  In  his  2009  report  on 
mediation,  the  Secretary-General  stated  that  “[w]hen 
conflicts  lead  to  gross  violations  of  human  rights  and 
international  humanitarian  law,  peace  and  justice  are 
report 
indivisible” 
cautioned  that  ignoring  the  administration  of  justice 
leads  to  a  culture  of  impunity  that  will  undermine 
sustainable peace and recognized that when 

(S/2009/189,  para.  35).  The 
“the  jurisdiction  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court is established in a particular situation, then, 
as  an  independent  judicial  body,  the  Court  will 
proceed  to  deal  with  it  in  accordance  with  the 
relevant  provisions  of  the  Rome  Statute  and  the 
process  of  justice  will  take  its  course”  (ibid., 
para. 37). 

the  gravest  crimes  known  to  humanity.  The  Rome 
Statute  is  based  on  common  values  of  fundamental 
importance:  peace,  security  and  the  well-being  of  the 
children, women and men of the world. By joining this 
community,  each  State  adds  a  brick  to  a  wall  that 
protects future generations from terrible atrocities. 
Mr. Sefue (United Republic of Tanzania): At the 

outset, the African States parties wish to reaffirm their 
unwavering  support  for  the  fight  against  impunity  for 
the most serious crimes of concern to the international 
community. We stress that those who are implicated in 
such crimes must be held accountable. 

The Group would like to express its appreciation 
to  the  President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC),  Judge  Sang-Hyun  Song,  for  presenting  the 
seventh  annual  report  on  the  work  of  the  Court,  as 
submitted to the United Nations in document A/66/309. 
The  report  clearly  demonstrates  that  the  Court  is  a 
living institution that has achieved significant progress 
in its investigations and judicial proceedings. 

The  International  Criminal  Court  is  a  historic 
development  in  the  global  struggle  to  advance  the 
cause  of  justice  and  the  rule  of  law,  and  to  end 
impunity.  Its  creation  represents  a  major  success  in 
international law. It seeks to foster a more peaceful and 
just  world.  It  promotes  respect  for  the  rule  of  law.  It 
upholds  international  humanitarian  law  and  human 
rights. 

The  International  Criminal  Court  has  become  an 
essential  instrument  in  the  prevention  of  horrendous 
crimes such as genocide, crimes against humanity and 
war  crimes.  Not  only  does  it  act  as  a  deterrent  to 
potential  perpetrators,  but  its  mandate  ensures  that 
persons accused of those offences are actually brought 
to justice in accordance with the provisions of the law. 

The  Court’s  deterrence  against  the  most  serious 
international  crimes  is  beginning  to  be  felt  as  it 
engages 
judicial  activity.  As  a  fully 
functional  judicial  institution,  the  Court  is  making 
substantial  progress  in  its  work  and  is  developing  its 
own  jurisprudence  on  fundamental  aspects  of  the  law. 
We look forward to the first verdict of the Court, which 
is expected to be delivered by the end of the year. The 
role  played  by  the  Court  is  indeed  one  of  the  noblest 
achievements of our time. 

War  crimes,  crimes  against  humanity  and 
genocide  know  no  borders.  We  must  therefore  work 
in  greater 
11-56550 
I call upon all actors to follow this guidance to respect 
the ICC’s jurisdiction. if justice is to have an impact, it 
must  follow  its  own  rules  without  interference  and 
without being subject to political considerations. 

On  1  July  2012,  we  will  celebrate  the  Court’s 
tenth anniversary. Coinciding with that, a new chapter 
will  open  for  the  ICC  as  the  mandate  of  the  first 
Prosecutor, Luis Moreno-Ocampo, comes to an end and 
he hands the baton to his successor. With the increasing 
relevance of the ICC in the international community’s 
response  to  conflicts,  the  amount  of  work  before  the 
Court  has  grown  significantly.  So  far,  the  Court  has 
managed  to  cope  by  seeking  savings  and  simply 
working harder, and I am proud that we can play such 
an  important  role  in  the  service  of  the  international 
community.  However,  if  the  expectations  of  us  keep 
growing  while  our  resources  remain  the  same,  the 
situation may become untenable.  

I  appeal  to  all  United  Nations  Member  States  to 
stand united behind the international efforts to suppress 
4 

ratification  of 
the  Rome  Statute 


together  to  fight  those  crimes.  The  Rome  Statute  is 
built upon the principle that the most heinous crimes of 
international  concern must not go unpunished. To that 
end, the Rome Statute affords States the opportunity to 
deal  with  cases  of  human  rights  violations  under 
domestic law and allows the ICC to assume jurisdiction 
only  where  national  judicial  systems  have  failed,  are 
unable  or  are  unwilling  to  act.  However,  the  primary 
responsibility for bringing offenders to justice remains 
with  States.  The  principle  of  complementarity  is  a 
positive  development  in  the  quest  to  promote  and 
protect  human  rights  by  ensuring  that  accountability 
prevails. 
If  the  Court  is  to  be  effective  and  successful, 

universal 
is 
fundamental. Equally important, we have to ensure that 
the  perpetrators  of  the  world’s  most  egregious  crimes 
are  denied  safe  haven  and  brought  to  justice.  We 
therefore  need  to  step  up  our  collective  efforts  to 
promote the universality of the Rome Statute. 

This  year  two  African  States,  Tunisia  and  Cape 
Verde,  ratified  the  Rome  Statute,  bringing  the  number 
of African states that have ratified the Statute to 33. We 
welcome the increased ratification of the Rome Statute 
from different regions of the world. However, in order 
to reach our common goal of ensuring that perpetrators 
of  heinous  crimes  are  brought  to  justice,  we  must 
redouble  our  efforts  and  continue  to  work  for  the 
universal acceptance of the Rome Statute. 

The ICC relies on the cooperation of its member 
States,  international  organizations  and  civil  society  in 
discharging  its  mandate.  The  Relationship  Agreement 
with the United Nations has been very instrumental in 
the  success  of  the  activities  of  the  Court. The African 
and 
Group 
strengthened 
enhanced 
cooperation,  as  provided  under 
the  Relationship 
Agreement. 

The  cooperation  of  the  international  community, 
the United Nations and other international and regional 
organizations remains vital to the success of the Court. 
The  cooperation  of  the  African  region  is  especially 
critical.  The  ICC  would  not  be  the  Court  it  is  today 
without the valuable input, involvement and support of 
the  majority  of  African  States.  African  States  were 
actively  involved  in  the  negotiations  of  the  Rome 
Statute and have been actively involved in the work of 
the  Court  since  its  inception.  At  33,  the  number  of 
African  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  is  close  to 
supports 
A/66/PV.44
to  see 
is 
therefore 
important  for 
impunity  and  want 
28  per  cent  of  the  119  States  parties.  All  six  of  the 
Court’s current cases, three of which are self-referrals, 
are from Africa. 

All  of  this  illustrates  the  high  regard  that  the 
region has for the protection and promotion of the rule 
of  law. African  States  avail  themselves  of  the  judicial 
assistance  provided  by  the  Court  in  cases  that,  due  to 
their  complexity  and/or  political  sensitivity, 
lend 
themselves  to  be  better  dealt  with  by  the  Court.  It  is 
not  true  that  Africa  is  against  the  Court  and  its 
rationale. 

It  is  true,  nevertheless,  that  there  is  a  lingering 
perception that relations between the ICC and African 
countries  could  be  better.  Perhaps  even  more  African 
countries  would  ratify  the  Statute  if  those  relations 
improved. Obviously, the majority of African countries 
are  against 
the  ICC 
contributing  to  the  development  of  a  culture  of  good 
governance  and  respect  for  human  rights  across  the 
continent.  It 
the  next 
Prosecutor of the ICC to prioritize the improvement of 
relations between the Court and the African Union. It is 
incumbent  upon  States  parties  to  bear  that  in  mind  as 
they  consider  candidates  for  that  important  position 
and  ensure  that  we  elect  a  Prosecutor  who  can  rise  to 
that  challenge.  The  future  success  of  the  Court  will 
depend  on  improved  relations  with  its  supporters 
across Africa. 

Mr. Loulichki (Morocco), Vice-President, took the 
Chair. 
The  administration  of 
international  criminal 

justice in Africa has precedent in the Special Court for 
Sierra  Leone  and  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal 
for  Rwanda.  Those 
judicial  bodies  have 
established respect for the rule of law and have brought 
peace,  order  and  stability  to  conflict-torn  societies.  In 
conclusion,  I  wish  to  reiterate  the  African  Group’s 
willingness to remain engaged in the work of the Court 
as  we  uphold  the  cause  of  ending  impunity  and 
reinforcing respect for the rule of law. 
Ms. Kaukoranta (Finland): I have the honour to 

speak on behalf of the five Nordic countries Denmark, 
Iceland,  Norway,  Sweden  and  my  own  country, 
Finland. 

the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC)  for  its  annual  report  to  the 
United  Nations  (see  A/66/309).  I  would  also  like  to 
Let  me  start  by 
thanking 
two 
11-56550 

5 
the 
in 
the 
request 
examinations 
report.  Both 
and  preliminary 
for  authorization 
A/66/PV.44 

thank Judge Sang-Hyun Song, President of the ICC, for 
his  very  informative  presentation  highlighting  key 
issues 
report  and  his 
introduction  distinctly  reflect  the  increasing  activities 
of the Court. 

The  reporting  period  is  marked  by  significant 
events  for  the  ICC  and  for  the  global  fight  against 
impunity.  In  February,  the  Security  Council  used  for 
the second time the powers granted in the Rome Statute 
and  unanimously  referred  the  Libyan  situation  to  the 
Court. That is yet another acknowledgement of the fact 
that  the  ICC  is  a  necessary  tool  in  ensuring  that 
perpetrators  of  international  crimes  are  brought  to 
justice.  Recently,  the  Pre-Trial  Chamber  granted  the 
Prosecutor’s 
to  open 
investigations  proprio  motu  into  the  situation  in  Côte 
d’Ivoire.  The  ICC  is  today  more  relevant  on  the 
international scene than ever before. 

Moreover,  the  number  of  judicial  proceedings, 
investigations 
is 
growing. That puts pressure on the Court to deliver on 
its  core  function  of  ensuring  accountability  for  the 
most  serious  crimes  of  international  concern.  As  the 
workload  increases,  necessary  resources  have  to  be 
ensured for the Court to fulfil the mandate given to it. 
The effective functioning of the Court is of the utmost 
importance for the Nordic countries. 

The  end  of  the  current  reporting  period  has  also 
been  marked  by  the  tragic  news  of  Judge  Antonio 
Cassese’s death. Judge Cassese was the first President 
of  both  the  Special  Tribunal  for  Lebanon  and  the 
International  Criminal  Tribunal 
former 
Yugoslavia, and he also had a long career in academia. 
He was one of the most prominent figures in the field 
of international criminal justice, and  he  will be sorely 
missed. 
first 

ratification,  by  San  Marino,  of 
the  Kampala 
amendment  to  article  8  of  the  Rome  Statute.  The 
jurisdictional  reach  of  the  Court  is  also  expanding  as 
the  number  of  States  parties  to  the  Statute  constantly 
grows. As Cape Verde recently became the 119th State 
to join the Statute, the goal of universal ratification is 
yet one step closer. The Nordic countries also warmly 
welcome to the ICC family Seychelles, Saint Lucia, the 
Republic  of  Moldova,  Grenada,  Tunisia, 
the 
Philippines  and  Maldives,  which  have  all  ratified  the 
countries  welcome 
The  Nordic 
for 
the 
the 

Rome  Statute  since  the  beginning  of  the  reporting 
period. 

The  Court  is  not,  however,  able  to  carry  out  its 
mandate without strong cooperation from States. It is a 
very worrying development indeed that the number  of 
outstanding arrest warrants is also growing. We would 
like once more to recall the legal commitment of States 
parties  to  cooperate  with  the  Court  and  to  respect  the 
obligations of the Rome Statute.  

Similarly,  in  the  Darfur  situation  we  call  on  all 
States,  and  the  Sudanese  authorities  in  particular,  to 
cooperate fully with the Court and to comply with their 
legal  obligations  under  Security  Council  resolution 
1593  (2005).  We  would  also  encourage  the  Security 
Council 
to  consider  measures 
that  would  ensure 
compliance with that resolution. 

As far as the cooperation extended by the United 
Nations to the Court is concerned, the Nordic countries 
have  taken  note  with  great  satisfaction  of  the  various 
forms  that  such  cooperation  has  taken,  as  detailed  in 
the report before us. 

The  Court  plays  an  important  role  in  ensuring 
that  those  who  have  committed  the  gravest  crimes 
cannot  escape  justice.  In  addition,  the  ICC  and  the 
Rome  Statute  system  have  a  role  in  the  broader 
framework of fostering the rule of law. It is States that 
bear  the  primary  responsibility  to  investigate  and 
prosecute ICC crimes in accordance with the principle 
of 
the  Court’s 
jurisdiction.  That  relationship  received  new  impetus 
from 
its 
preparatory process. 

There  are  persuasive  arguments  for  enhancing 
national capabilities to try alleged perpetrators. In this 
respect,  we  would  like  to  draw  attention  to  the  ICC’s 
Legal  Tools  Project.  The  Legal  Tools  database  is  the 
leading 
information  on  core 
international  crimes  and  will  help  those  who  are 
entrusted  with  the  investigation,  prosecution,  defence 
and  adjudication  of  such  crimes  to  work  more  cost-
effectively. 

It is of great significance for the victims and their 
communities  to  see  that  perpetrators  are  brought  to 
justice  in  their  own  country.  In  cases  where  national 
trials  are  not  an  option  for  various  reasons,  the 
International  Criminal  Court 
indispensable 
vehicle  for  ensuring  justice  and  accountability.  It  is 
the  Kampala  Review  Conference  and 
complementarity 
that  governs 
resource 
is  an 
legal 
for 
6 

11-56550 
the 
that 
to  ensure 


also  vital 
issue  of  victims’ 
participation  and  protection  remains  high  on  the 
agenda of the International Criminal Court. 

Let me finish by reiterating the Nordic countries’ 
firm  and  long-standing  support  for  the  International 
Criminal Court. As the Court is  faced  with challenges 
on  many  fronts,  our  resolution  to  overcome  those 
challenges  and  to  extinguish  impunity  must  be  even 
stronger. 
Mr.  Rowe  (Australia):  It  is  my  honour  to  speak 

today on behalf of the group of Canada, Australia and 
New  Zealand  (CANZ).  On  behalf  of  that  group,  I 
would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the  International 
Criminal Court (ICC), Judge Sang-Hyun Song, for his 
excellent  report  (see  A/66/309)  on  the  work  of  the 
Court over the past year. 

The  International  Criminal  Court  remains  a 
concrete  expression  of  our  collective  desire  to  ensure 
justice  for  victims  of  atrocity  and  to  end  impunity  for 
perpetrators of the most serious crimes through a law-
based  system.  Ultimately,  and  ideally,  it  is  States 
themselves 
for 
prosecuting serious crimes committed in their territory 
or by their nationals. Where this  does not happen,  the 
Court acts as a complementary and necessary safety net 
of accountability. 
Over the past year, we have witnessed the growth 

of political  and diplomatic support  for the ICC. There 
are  now  119  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute.  We 
warmly welcome the membership this year of Grenada, 
Tunisia, the Philippines, the Maldives and Cape Verde. 
We  are  particularly  pleased  at 
in 
representation in the Rome Statute system from States 
in  the Asian  region,  which  has  been  underrepresented 
for some time. 

The  workload  of  the  Court  continues  to  grow. A 
landmark  development  this  year  was  the  Security 
Council’s  unanimous  referral  of  the  situation  in  Libya 
to  the  ICC  in  the  early  stages  of  the  conflict.  That 
second Security Council referral demonstrates both its 
members’  respect  for  the  work  of  the  Court  and  the 
important  role  of  the  Court  in  international  peace  and 
security  architecture.  CANZ  welcomes  the  statements 
of 
is 
committed to accountability and to the establishment of 
a  new  system  of  Government  in  Libya  in  which 
individual rights are protected under the rule of law. 
the  National  Transitional  Council 
that  have  primary 
responsibility 
increase 
the 
that 
it 
A/66/PV.44
CANZ 
President 
welcomes 

Of course, the swift and decisive action taken by 
the  Council  with  regard  to  Libya  can  be  contrasted 
with the Council’s inaction in relation to Syria. CANZ 
takes  this  opportunity  to  call  on  the  members  of  the 
Security  Council  to  take  action  to  ensure  that  the 
perpetrators of Rome Statute crimes that appear to have 
been committed in Syria are brought to justice. 

Ouattara’s 
confirmation  of  Côte  d’Ivoire’s  acceptance  of  the 
Court’s  jurisdiction  as  a  non-State  party  under  article 
12, paragraph 3, of the Rome Statute. We welcome the 
opening  of  an  investigation  with  respect  to  crimes 
committed  since  28  November  in  Côte  d’Ivoire.  We 
hope  that  fruitful  cooperation  between  Côte  d’Ivoire 
and the ICC on ensuring accountability will contribute 
to  stability  in  the  long  term  and  encourage  Côte 
d’Ivoire to join the Rome Statute as a permanent State 
party. 

Although  the  Court  has  never  been  busier,  the 
cooperation  of  States  in  enforcing  international  arrest 
warrants  remains  a  challenge.  CANZ  recognizes  the 
difficulties  that  non-execution  of  Court  requests  can 
impose on the Court’s ability to fulfil its mandate, and 
urges  all  States  parties  to  fully  comply  with  Court 
requests for cooperation. 

One of the most important flow-on effects of the 
ICC  has  been  to  act  as  a  catalyst  for  States  to  ensure 
their  domestic  capacity  to  deal  with  crimes  under  the 
Rome  Statute.  In  order  to  link  complementarity  and 
broader  efforts  to  fight  impunity  over  the  long  term, 
the international community must focus on building the 
national 
their 
responsibilities  in  the  justice  sector.  In  this  regard, 
CANZ  notes  the  conclusions  of  the  World  Bank’s 
World  Development  Report  2011  with  respect  to  the 
importance  of  restoring  confidence  in  institutions 
capable  of  delivering  justice,  security  and  economic 
reform in order to break the cycle of violence in fragile 
States. 

With the delivery of the closing statements in the 
trial  of Thomas  Lubanga,  who  is  charged  with  having 
committed  war  crimes  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo,  and  the  imminent  delivery  of  a  judgement 
in  that  case,  the  Court  is  entering  a  new  phase  in  its 
development.  Six  new  judges  will  be  elected  at  the 
December  meeting  of  States  parties.  The  quality  of 
judges  will  determine  the  quality  of  justice  that  the 
Court  is  able  to  deliver.  We  urge  States  Parties  to 
capacity  of  States 
assume 
to 
11-56550 

7 

A/66/PV.44 

consider, when making their decisions with regards to 
the  election,  the  important  pre-trial,  trial  and  appeal 
work that will be undertaken by the judges of the Court 
in coming years. 

The  next  Assembly  of  States  Parties  will  also 
elect  the  next  prosecutor  for  a  term  of  nine  years. We 
take  this  opportunity  to  thank  outgoing  Prosecutor 
Louis  Moreno-Ocampo  for  the  firm  leadership  he  has 
brought  to  this  important  position  in  the  Court’s 
formative years. 
We are pleased that the search committee process 

has  produced  four  eminently  qualified  candidates  for 
the  position  of  Prosecutor.  The  candidate  selected  by 
the Assembly will have the important responsibility of 
steering  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  through  the  next 
phase of the Court’s development. 

Canada,  New  Zealand  and  my  own  country, 
Australia,  are  deeply  committed  to  working  for  the 
Court’s success as an essential safety net for preventing 
impunity. We  call  on  those  States  not  yet  party  to  the 
Rome  Statute  to  join  us  in  the  fight  to  end  impunity 
and bring justice to the victims of those crimes that, by 
their  very  nature,  deeply  shock  the  conscience  of  all 
responsible members of the international community. 
Mr.  Charles  (Trinidad  and  Tobago):  I  have  the 

honour  to  make  this  statement  on  behalf  of  the 
14 member  States  of 
the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM). 

Today’s  debate  on  the  report  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC)  (see  A/66/309)  is  an  important 
item  on  the  Assembly’s  agenda,  as  it  provides  an 
opportunity  for  all  Member  States,  States  parties, 
States  not  parties  and  observer  States  to  assess  the 
work  of  the  Court  over  the  past  year.  CARICOM 
therefore  express  its  appreciation  to  His  Excellency 
Sang-Hyun Song, President of the Court, for presenting 
the  report  submitted  pursuant  to  the  Relationship 
Agreement between the United Nations and the ICC. 

CARICOM notes the progress made by the Court 
during  the  reporting  period  in  the  discharge  of  its 
mandate set out in the Rome Statute, namely, to bring 
to  justice  the  perpetrators  of  those  crimes  listed  in 
article 5 of the Statute. While we recognize the efforts 
of  the  ICC  to  move  forward  and  bring  the  cases  now 
before it to a successful completion — as exemplified 
in  the  case  of  The  Prosecutor  v.  Thomas  Lubanga 
Dyilo,  where  a  verdict  is  expected  by  the  end  of  the 
8 

year — we remain concerned over the lack of progress 
in  some  other  matters.  These  matters  include,  for 
example,  the  case  of  The  Prosecutor  v.  Joseph  Kony
and others, where lack of progress is due to the failure 
to  execute  four  arrest  warrants 
that  have  been 
outstanding since July 2005.  

CARICOM  urges  all  entities  that  have  binding 
legal obligations to cooperate with the Court to ensure 
that the accused persons are arrested and brought to the 
Court  for  trial.  Any  continued  failure  to  resolve  this 
protracted  matter  would  serve  to  further  inhibit  the 
ability  of  the  ICC  to  bring  to  justice  individuals  who 
are  accused  of  committing  grave  atrocities  that  have 
affected  and  continue  to  affect  thousands  of  victims, 
including women and children. 

We  also  note  with  appreciation  the  Prosecutor’s 
attempts  to  investigate  and  monitor  information  on 
crimes potentially falling within the jurisdiction of the 
Court  beyond  the  African  continent.  These  involve 
situations  in  Latin America, Asia  and  Eastern  Europe. 
CARICOM  views  these  developments  as  suitable 
rebuttals to the arguments proffered by some detractors 
of  the  Court  who  have  alleged  that  the  ICC  has  been 
targeting  Africa  while  ignoring  atrocities  committed 
elsewhere. 
The ongoing work of the Court demands that it be 

provided  with  sufficient  resources 
to  effectively 
discharge  its  functions.  While  we  acknowledge  the 
obligations  of  States  parties  to  the  Statute  to  finance 
the  operations  of  the  Court,  CARICOM  recalls  the 
provisions of article 115, paragraph (b) of the Statute, 
which identifies funds of the Court as including:  

“Funds  provided  by  the  United  Nations,  subject 
to  the  approval  of  the  General  Assembly,  in 
particular in relation to the expenses incurred due 
to referrals by the Security Council”.  
CARICOM  is  of  the  view  that  now  is  an  opportune 
moment for the Court and the United Nations to engage 
in  some  form  of  dialogue  on  this  subject,  especially 
since this is a time when the referral of a new situation 
by  the  Security  Council  has  increased  pressure  on  the 
resources available to the Court. 

The ICC is a unique institution in many respects. 
That is due, in part, to its reliance on the cooperation of 
States  parties,  other  States  and  intergovernmental 
organizations  to  carry  out  its  work  efficiently.  We 
commend  the  growing  areas  of  cooperation  between 
11-56550 
the 
States 
to  act  as 
the 
organizations, 
of  American 
including 
and 
temporary  head  of 
the  Relationship  Agreement  between 


the ICC and the United Nations within the framework 
of 
two 
organizations.  These  areas  include  cooperation  in 
security matters, air transport in support of missions in 
situation  countries  and  the  signing  of  a  memorandum 
of  understanding  in  order  to  facilitate  the  secondment 
of  an  expert  from  the  Office  of  Internal  Oversight 
Services 
the 
Independent  Oversight  Mechanism  established  by  the 
ICC.  

CARICOM also welcomes the increased areas of 
cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  other 
the 
intergovernmental 
Organization 
the 
Commonwealth. Such collaboration will assist the ICC 
and  the  international  community  at  large  in  the 
promotion of peace, security and an end to impunity. 

Over  the  past  year,  we  have  also  witnessed  an 
increase  in  the  number  of  States  that  have  become 
adherents  to  the  Rome  Statute.  We  now  count  among 
the  119  States  parties  our  sister  CARICOM  member 
State  of  Grenada.  We  also  welcome  Cape  Verde,  the 
Philippines,  the  Maldives  and  Tunisia  to  the  fold. 
Additional  ratifications  of 
the  Rome  Statute  by 
members of the international community will not only 
increase the universal reach of the Court, but will also 
provide further legitimacy to the institution. 

The  ICC  is  at  a  critical  period  in  its  history. At 
the  tenth  session  of  the Assembly  of  States  Parties  in 
December,  here  at 
the  United  Nations,  a  new 
Prosecutor  will  be  elected.  We  wish  to  salute  the 
sterling  contribution  made  by 
first 
Prosecutor,  Mr.  Moreno  Ocampo,  who  has  served  the 
institution  with  distinction.  We  also  appreciate  the 
work  of  the  search  committee  established  to  assist 
States  parties  in  identifying  a  suitable  successor  to  be 
elected as Prosecutor at the upcoming session. 

Six new judges will also be elected in December. 
CARICOM  has  endorsed  the  candidature  of  Justice 
Anthony  Thomas  Aquinas  Carmona  of  Trinidad  and 
Tobago  to  fill  one  of  the  vacancies  that  will  arise  on 
the  bench  of  the  ICC.  We  are  fully  convinced  that 
Justice  Carmona  meets  all  of  the  requirements  laid 
down in article 36 of the Statute for election as a judge 
of  the  ICC,  and  we  would  welcome  the  support  of  all 
States parties for his candidature. 

role 
Finally,  as  a  region  that  has  played  a  significant 
ICC  and 
in  advancing 
the  cause  of 
the 
ICC’s 
A/66/PV.44
thank 
(EU)  and 
its  member  States 
international  security, 
international  criminal  justice  as  a  whole,  CARICOM 
will continue to work with the Court in order to enable 
it to live up to the expectations of its founding fathers 
to  serve  as  a  bulwark  against 
impunity  while 
safeguarding fundamental human rights. 
Mr.  Vrailas  (European  Union):  The  European 

Union 
the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  for  its  seventh 
annual  report  to  the  United  Nations,  covering  the 
period  from  1  August  2010  to  31  July  2011  (see 
A/66/309). 

The European Union is a staunch supporter of the 
International Criminal Court. Consolidating the rule of 
law and respect for human rights, as well as preserving 
peace  and  strengthening 
in 
conformity with the Charter of the United Nations, are 
of fundamental importance to the Union and a priority 
for  it.  The  Seychelles,  Saint  Lucia,  the  Republic  of 
Moldova,  Grenada,  Tunisia,  the  Philippines,  Vanuatu, 
the  Maldives  and  Cape  Verde  —  countries  from 
different regions have joined the circle of States parties 
to  the  Rome  Statute,  bringing  its  number  to  119.  The 
European  Union  welcomes  the  new  members  and 
pledges  to  continue  its  efforts  to  achieve  universality 
and preserve the integrity of the Rome Statute. 

The first Review Conference of the Rome Statute, 
in  Kampala,  was  a  major  milestone  and,  moreover, 
provided a forum for States, international organizations 
and  representatives  of  civil  society  to  reaffirm  their 
resolve  to  promote  the  Statute,  make  specific  pledges 
to  that  end  and  submit  themselves  to  a  stocktaking  of 
international 
stocktaking 
addressed four fundamental issues in the Rome Statute 
system. That useful exercise culminated in the adoption 
of  two  resolutions  and  a  declaration  and  clearly 
identified  the  areas  on  which  we  ought  to  concentrate 
our efforts.  

The Kampala Conference successfully concluded 
its discussions on the subject of two amendments to the 
Rome Statute. The first aimed at extending the Court’s 
jurisdiction over additional war crimes in situations of 
non-international  armed  conflict,  and 
the  second 
concerned  the  crime  of  aggression.  The  European 
Union commends the spirit of consensus that prevailed, 
which enabled a final agreement to be reached. 

As it pledged at the Kampala Review Conference, 
the  EU  has  further  reinforced  its  policy  in  support  of 
the ICC. This has been translated into important direct 
justice.  That 
criminal 
the 
11-56550 

9 
to 
this 
end 
for 
the 
A/66/PV.44 

financial assistance to the Court, to civil society and to 
third States. Nevertheless, the recent report of the ICC, 
while  commendable  insofar  as  it  describes  the  effort 
that  the  Court  has  made  in  fulfilling  its  mission, 
describes  the  challenges  that  the  ICC  is  facing.  The 
number  of  acts  of  violence  that  continue  to  be 
perpetrated,  particularly  against  women  and  children, 
is  extremely  worrying.  The  international  community 
must concentrate its efforts to ensure that it is effective 
in  punishing  such  crimes  and  preventing  them  in 
future. 
In  this  regard,  we  should  recall  one  of  the 

fundamental  principles  of 
the  Rome  Statute: 
complementarity, by which it falls first and foremost to 
each  State  to  investigate  and  prosecute  the  presumed 
perpetrators  of  the  most  serious  crimes  against  the 
international  community  and  by  which  the  Court  may 
exercise  its  powers  only  in  the  event  that  a  State  is 
unable or unwilling to do so. The European Union and 
its  member  States  are  determined  to  pursue  their 
commitments 
effective 
implementation of the Rome Statute. Thus we need to 
reinforce our collective and individual efforts to ensure 
that the international arrest warrants issued by the ICC 
are enforced. 

In  this  regard  in  particular  the  European  Union 
and its member States also recall that Security Council 
resolution  1593 
to 
cooperate  with  the  Court  on  a  State  not  party,  in  this 
case the Sudan. The EU regrets the Sudan’s violations 
of  its  international  obligations  and  commends  the 
reaffirmation  by  the  Kampala  Review  Conference  of 
the  need  for  all  States  parties  to  fully  meet  their 
obligations  under  Part  9  of  the  Rome  Statute.  In  that 
connection, 
the 
difficulties raised by certain States parties in relation to 
the enforcement of those obligations. 

Unless  all  the  stakeholders  in  the  international 
community  —  the  States  parties  and  the  States  not 
parties, international organizations and civil society — 
put  up  a  united  fight,  the  objectives  of  the  Rome 
Statute  and,  more  generally, 
the  purposes  and 
principles of the United Nations Charter with regard to 
international peace, security and world well-being will 
not  be  achieved.  Despots  who  commit  acts  that  are 
crimes under the Rome Statute will continue to get off 
scot-free  and  use  their  influence  to  continue  their 
activities  unchallenged. As  for  their  victims,  they  can 
imposes  obligations 
its  concern  about 
it  expresses 
(2005) 

only  hope  that  justice  will  be  done  and  that  they  will 
receive some sort of compensation. 

The  support  the  Court  receives  from  the  United 
Nations is broadly described in the Court’s report. The 
European  Union  welcomes  that  support  and  calls  on 
other international organizations to follow its example 
by  stepping  up  and  formalizing  their  cooperation.  For 
their  part,  the  European  Union  and  its  member  States 
undertake to pursue their efforts in the area of the fight 
against  impunity,  notable  by  giving  the  Court  full 
diplomatic  support  and  continuing  dialogue  with  its 
various partners to clear up any misunderstandings and 
dispel any concerns. It has been relentless in its efforts 
to date and undertakes to continue them. 

Mr. Bambus (Estonia): Let me begin by thanking 
the  President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(ICC),  Judge  Sang-Hyun  Song,  for  introducing  the 
seventh annual report of the ICC to the United Nations 
(see A/66/309).  

Estonia aligns itself with the statement just made 
by the European Union on behalf of its member States. 

The  Court  is  indeed  busier  than  ever  with  its 
judicial 
situations  under 
investigation  and three trials ongoing, in addition to a 
wide range of preliminary investigations being carried 
out in several regions of the world. Estonia is grateful 
to  all  the  Court’s  staff  for  their  daily  efforts  in 
discharging its mandate to prosecute the perpetrators of 
the most serious crimes of concern to the international 
community.  Estonia  remains  steadfastly  committed  to 
the principles of the Rome Statute and to promoting the 
rule of law.  

As the President of Estonia said in his statement 
to  the  General  Assembly  in  the  general  debate  at  its 
sixty-sixth  session,  “The  rule  of  law  and  respect  for 
international  law  are  what  will  help  ravaged  and 
victimized societies to regain their dignity and rebuild 
their  communities”  (see  A/66/PV.11,  page  48).  Our 
joint efforts remain crucial in this regard. 

My delegation would like to highlight four issues 
that are significant to the Court’s work. These are, first, 
the  importance  of  pursuing  universality  of  the  Rome 
Statute;  secondly,  the  significance  of  the  upcoming 
elections of the Prosecutor and judges; thirdly, the need 
for  better  coordination  in  assisting  national  capacity-
building;  and  fourthly,  the  importance  of  engaging 
activity,  with 
seven 
10 

11-56550 
individual 
for 
to  combat 
the  best-qualified 


regional organizations and providing information about 
the activities of the Court.  

We are particularly pleased to note the increase in 
the  number  of  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  with 
the  accession  of  eight  new  States  since  the  beginning 
of  the  reporting  period.  This  month,  Cape  Verde 
became  the  119th  State  party  to  the  Statute,  which 
means  that  with  the  next  accession  the  symbolic 
120 States — the exact number voting for the Statute in 
1998  —  will  be  reached.  The  steady  growth  in  the 
number  of  States  parties  demonstrates  the  increasing 
political  will 
impunity  and  enforce 
accountability.  Estonia  warmly  welcomes  this  trend 
towards universal adherence to the Rome Statute. 

The Court is now entering a period of leadership 
transition. The election of a new Prosecutor is a crucial 
decision  that  will  have  a  huge  impact  on  various 
aspects of the Court’s life. The election process set up 
by  the  Bureau  is  aimed  at  successfully  electing,  by 
consensus, 
the 
position.  Clearly,  the  work  of  the  search  committee 
gives valuable input in that regard, and we are pleased 
to  note  that  all  States  have  respected  its  mandate.  It 
needs  to  be  emphasized  once  again  that  the  search 
committee  is  technical  in  nature  and  has  an  assisting 
function  only.  The  final  decision  lies  solely  in  the 
hands of the States parties. 

The Assembly of States Parties will also elect six 
judges,  which  will  significantly  change  the  bench’s 
composition. Estonia believes that the efficiency of the 
Court largely depends on States parties electing judges 
who  are  qualified  in  terms  of  their  judicial  expertise 
and experience in the practice of criminal law. We wish 
to thank civil society for its efforts in helping States to 
take informed decisions in that regard. 

Among  other  elections,  the  new  President  of  the 
Assembly of  States Parties for the next  triennium will 
be elected. At this point, I am pleased to state that after 
consultations with all regional groups, Estonia has put 
forward the candidacy of Ambassador Tiina Intelmann 
for  the  post  of  the  President  of  the  Assembly  of  the 
States  Parties  to  the  Rome  Statute.  If  elected,  she 
would  be  the  first  woman  President  and  the  first  to 
work full time for the Assembly, which would make an 
additional contribution to its work. 

Turning  briefly  to  the  issue  of  complementarity, 
as we all know, a State can pursue this principle only if 
institutional 
it  has 
legislative  and 
the  necessary 
A/66/PV.44
capability to prosecute the crimes covered by the Rome 
Statute. More needs to be done to better coordinate the 
efforts of States, the Court, international organizations 
and civil society in assisting national capacity-building 
for  the  effective  investigation  and  prosecution  of  the 
most  serious  crimes.  For  example,  an  interactive 
platform  for  information  sharing  in  that  regard  would 
be a commendable initiative. 

Given  the  role  of  the  ICC  in  international 
criminal  justice,  the  positive  engagement  of  regional 
organizations is one of the keys to the Court’s success. 
The  ICC  is  currently  active  in  many  regions  of  the 
world via preliminary examinations, while the Court’s 
judicial  proceedings  are  mostly  taking  place  with 
regard to countries that have specifically requested it to 
investigate or to situations which the Security Council 
had referred to the Court. Thus, open and constructive 
dialogue  among  the  ICC,  regional  organizations  and 
States  is  necessary  to  build  confidence  and  avoid 
possible misunderstandings. Against that backdrop, we 
welcome  the  organization  of  the  regional  conferences 
held this year in Doha and Addis Ababa and encourage 
further steps in that direction. 
In  conclusion,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  Estonia’s 

strong 
an 
independent and credible International Criminal Court. 
Mr.  Osman  (Sudan)  (spoke in Arabic): We  have 

studied  the  report  of  the  International  Criminal  Court 
(see A/66/309)  very  carefully,  in  particular  sections  II 
and III as they refer to my country, the Sudan. We find 
it astonishing that despite the major important positive 
developments that occurred in the Sudan, especially in 
Darfur, the report, like those preceding it, continues to 
be  based  on  purely  political  motivations  and  is  filled 
with information that contradicts the facts.  

We find ourselves once more confronted with the 
issue of politics masquerading as law. Nothing is more 
dangerous  than  politicizing  international  justice  at  the 
hands  of  such  a  body  as  the  International  Criminal 
Court. Since the first preparatory meetings to negotiate 
the  drafting  of  its  Statute,  we  have  repeatedly  warned 
of the dangers of politicizing this Court and diverting it 
from its intended objectives.  

As  the  Permanent  Representative  of  Tanzania 
already mentioned, we, as Africans, in fact participated 
in  all  negotiations  on  the  first  draft  of  the  Rome 
Statute.  Since  then,  we  have  been  warning  of  the 
importance  of  keeping  international  justice  separate 
long-standing 
commitment 
and 
to 
11-56550 

11 
A/66/PV.44 

from politics so as to prevent some States from using it 
as  a  tool  to  exclude  and  overlook  the  acts  of  some 
countries,  while  unjustly  punishing  other  countries. 
The  law  itself  does  not  recognize  selectivity  and 
double standards. 

In  principle,  linking  a  political  body  with  a 
judicial body is a violation of the principles of justice. 
The  best  evidence  for  that  may  be  found  in  article  13 
(b) of the Statute, which discusses the referral of cases 
by  the  Security  Council  to  the  International  Criminal 
Court  under  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter.  Furthermore, 
the  very  referral  by  the  Security  Council  of  any  case 
under  Chapter  VII  is  in  and  of  itself  a  political 
decision. 

I need not elaborate further to the Assembly that 
since  the  establishment  of  the  modern  State,  all  have 
agreed  on  the  importance  of  separating  the  judiciary 
from  the  political  and  executive  powers.  Yet,  here 
today  in  the  twenty-first  century,  we  are  combining 
political  and  judicial  powers.  Moreover,  as  I  just 
mentioned,  the  very  referral  of  a  case  by  the  Security 
Council to the Court is a political decision disguised as 
law.  I  need  not  elaborate  further  on  the  Council’s 
working  methods  and  the  mechanisms  whereby  it 
adopts resolutions, which the Assembly knows well in 
view  of  its  continued  participation  in  discussions  of 
such  issues  as  reform  of  the  Security  Council  and 
improving  its  working  methods  and  its  decision-
making procedures. 
The  topic  has  remained  a  major  concern  for  all 

Member  States  of 
the  Organization  who  have 
continued, for over two decades now, to meet in order 
to reform that body; however, to no avail. Given that it 
was not logical for the Security Council to decide on a 
resolution,  some  Council  members  have  exploited 
article 13 (b) of the Rome Statute and manipulated it to 
serve their political aims. 

Security  Council  resolution  1593  (2005),  which 
referred  the  situation  in  Darfur  to  the  ICC,  was  a 
shameful 
the 
fundamentals of the Charter of the United Nations and 
international  law.  It  also  ignored  the  very  important 
fact  that  peace  is  the  foundation  of  justice  and  that 
President  Omer  Hassan  A.  Al-Bashir  was  the  leader 
who put an end to one of the longest conflicts in Africa 
when  he  signed  the  Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement 
with our brothers in South Sudan. He was the one who 
enabled 
to  self-
to  exercise 
decision 
political 
ignored 
that 
them 
their 
right 

to  cooperate  with 
determination.  Indeed,  President  Al-Bashir  was  the 
first world leader to recognize that nascent State and to 
offer it a helping hand. He was also the leader who put 
an end to the conflict in Darfur through the signing of 
the  Darfur  Peace  Agreement  in  Doha,  Qatar  with  the 
much-appreciated support of our sisterly State Qatar. 

Paragraph  25  of  the  report  before  the  Assembly 
addresses President Al-Bashir’s visits to several States 
parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  with  the  claim  that  those 
States  had  an  obligation 
the 
International  Criminal  Court.  That  interpretation  is 
based  on  the  alleged  obligation  in  article  87  of  the 
Rome  Statute.  However,  the  Prosecutor  of  the  Court 
has  overlooked  the  text  of  the  Statute,  specifically 
article 98, which refers to the importance of respecting 
the  principles  and  rules  of  international  law  and 
international  agreements  concerning  immunities  of 
Heads of State and high-level Government officials and 
the well-established fundamentals of international law, 
which protect the sovereignty of States with respect to 
their  other  international  obligations,  even  if  those 
conflict with the Rome Statute.  

That  well-established  principle  of  international 
law  is  understood  even  by  college  students.  In  other 
words, it refers to the right of the receiving States that 
hosted  our  President.  Therefore,  it  is  the  sovereign 
right of States, although they may be party to the Rome 
Statute, to consider their obligations or interests under 
other  regional  or  international  agreements  above  their 
obligations under the Rome Statute. 

Why have all of those issues been ignored despite 
the  fact  that  they  are  specified  in  article  98  of  the 
Rome  Statute?  Where  is  the  binding  obligation  —  as 
per the legal  terminology  — referred to in the report? 
To  the  contrary,  article  98,  as  mentioned  above, 
indicates  that  the  decision  to  receive  His  Excellency 
President  Omer  Hassan  A.  Al-Bashir  is  purely  a 
sovereign matter and thus resides solely in the hands of 
the receiving country. 

It is very clear that the Prosecutor is dealing with 
the  Rome  Statute  in  a  selective  manner.  He  picks  and 
chooses the articles that enable him to achieve political 
gains,  while  overlooking  those  that  contradict  his 
wishes. My country must therefore, from this rostrum, 
remind 
their 
professional commitment to the fundamental principles 
of  the  Charter  of  the  Organization  concerning  respect 
for international legitimacy and State sovereignty. The 
importance  of 
everyone  of 
the 
12 

11-56550 


primacy of the Charter of the United Nations above all 
other law dates back to 1947 and is a major foundation 
of international law. 

That law and the solid fundamental principles of 
international  law  concerning  the  immunity  of  seated 
Heads  of  State  and  Government  have  been  respected 
and observed by the International Criminal Court itself, 
which  is  an  institution  that  enjoys  our  respect  and 
appreciation  for  its  continued  efforts  to  issue  fair  and 
legal opinions. 
Thus,  we  could  hardly  react  otherwise,  when 

discussing  a  Head  of  State  who  was  selected  by  his 
people  through  fair  and  general  elections  that  were 
subject  to  observation  by  regional  and  other  observer 
teams  from  all  over  the  world,  and  from  many 
international  organizations, 
the  United 
including 
Nations that affirmed their transparency. 

State  immunity  is  a  sacred  principle  that  cannot 
be  altered  by  a  newly  created  mechanism  that  has  yet 
to find its proper place in international law and has not 
yet generated merit and credibility for its work through 
the efforts of its staff and employees. 

The basis upon which the Darfur file was referred 
to  the  International  Criminal  Court  was  politically 
unfair  and  unjust.  It  was  created  through  resolution 
1593  (2005)  pursuant  to  article  13  (b)  of  the  Rome 
Statute,  which  the  Sudan  has  never  ratified.  As  the 
members  of  the  Assembly  know  well,  the  Vienna 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  Treaties  specifies  that  if  a 
State  has  not  signed,  ratified  or  acceded  to  a  certain 
treaty,  it  is  not  bound  by  the  treaty.  My  country  has 
never  ratified  the  Rome  Statute,  nor  acceded  to  it  or 
signed  it.  Thus,  in  what  manner  would  the  Statute  be 
binding upon the Sudan? 

From  the  beginning  the  Prosecutor’s  approach 
was purely political and entirely unrelated to the law or 
the  principles  of  justice,  the  most  important  of  which 
are 
important 
characteristics  must  be  available  and  made  part  of 
those charged with implementing justice. 

The  Prosecutor  has  exceeded  his  authority  with 
respect  to  referrals  under  article  15  of  the  Rome 
Statute, which specifies and limits the authority of the 
Prosecutor.  In  this  case,  the  Prosecutor  has  exceeded 
his authority and engaged in impassioned political and 
media campaigns. Politics and media activities are not 
part of the work of the Prosecution. Such political and 
impartiality.  Those 
integrity  and 
rejecting 
11-56550 

13 
A/66/PV.44
that 
threatens 
taken  place  each 
time 
true  danger 
the  resolution  of 
media  campaigns,  especially  in  the  Security  Council, 
have 
the  Prosecutor  has 
submitted a report or given a briefing. Needless to say, 
justice  has 
its  own  sacred  approach  built  upon 
impartiality,  just  as  politics  and  media  activities  have 
their  own  approaches  and  their  own  styles.  Anyone 
who wants to serve a political agenda is not deserving 
of  being  allowed  to  conduct  any  judicial  activity,  and 
will  not  be  working  in  the  service  of  justice.  The 
Prosecution would have been better advised to abide by 
the  well-known  conduct  of  judicial  professionals. 
Mixing politics with the law in such a way is actually 
the 
the  principle  of 
international  justice,  because  it  raises  questions  about 
its credibility and will force everybody to abandon it. 
In addition, the Prosecution has made it a habit to 

overlook  the  facts.  It  overlooked  the  fact  that  peace 
takes precedence over justice. Justice cannot prevail or 
maintain  its  balance  unless  peace  prevails  as  well,  as 
illustrated  by  numerous  prior  experiences  in  conflict 
resolution throughout the world. We have seen how in 
many  countries,  following 
the 
conflict,  the  parties  have  made  consensual  efforts 
towards reconciliation and reparations. The experience 
of South Africa comes to mind. In that case, the worst 
and cruellest practices of apartheid took place, with the 
grossest  of  violations.  However, 
subsequently, 
everyone  chose peaceful  resolution,  reconciliation and 
reparations. 

It  is  therefore  not  surprising  that  our  mother 
continent of Africa is being targeted. If ones goes back 
to the information available, they will find that African 
leaders  make  up  the  overwhelming  majority  of  those 
targeted  by  the  International  Criminal  Court.  We  are 
the ones paying the price of that misuse of the principle 
of  the  concept  of  universal  jurisdiction.  In  addition  to 
the  various  imbalances  that  exist  in  the  working 
methods  of  the  Security  Council,  that  concept  was 
taken  out  of  its  proper  context  and  has  been  misused 
through the Rome Statute — in addition to the various 
imbalances  that  exist  in  the  work  methods  of  the 
Security Council. 

Texts and articles were misused by certain circles 
to  use  the  International  Criminal  Court  as  a  tool  to 
target  certain  African  States  and  leaders,  as  if  Africa 
were the sole jurisdiction of the Court. That has led the 
African  Union  to  adopt  the  principled  position  of 
strongly 
that  blatant  politicization  of 
justice — a position reaffirmed by all summit meetings 

A/66/PV.44 

of  the  African  Union.  Everybody  knows  this;  it  is 
beyond question.  

Moreover,  the  Council  also  knows  well  that  that 
position has been supported by a considerable number 
of major regional organizations and political groups at 
the United Nations. From this rostrum, I would like to 
express my appreciation to all member States of those 
organizations that, although States parties to the Rome 
Statute,  have  nevertheless  never  hesitated  to  declare 
their total rejection of the Court’s transformation from 
a  legal  body  to  a  body  for  political  schemes  and 
extortion far removed from the purposes and objectives 
for which the Court was created.  
What  kind  of  justice,  while  fixated  on  events  in 

Africa,  completely  overlooks 
the  hundreds  of 
thousands of civilians who suffered genocide and were 
collectively  exterminated  using 
the  most  modern 
machines of death and destruction in areas beyond the 
continent? Where are the preconditions for the exercise 
of  jurisdiction  as  stipulated  in  article  12  of  the  Rome 
Statute?  

The  Sudan  would  like  to  reiterate  its  firm 
confidence in the peace-loving nations that, guided by 
the  values  of  true  justice  and  equality,  would  never 
accept  the  politicization  of  justice  in  that  fashion,  or 
the diversion of the International Criminal Court so far 
away from the objectives for which it was founded. We 
are  fully  confident  that  all  States  Members  of  the 
United  Nations,  including  States  parties  to  the  Rome 
Statute, have completely understood the reasonableness 
and  logic  of  the  Sudan’s  position  in  refusing  to  deal 
with  the  Court.  As  I  explained  through  my  earlier 
reference  to  the  Vienna  Convention  on  the  Law  of 
Treaties, the Sudan is not a party to the Rome Statute.  

In  conclusion,  let  me  share  the  most  recent 
positive  developments  concerning  the  resolution  of 
what  remains  of  the  conflict  in  Darfur,  which  is  our 
main  concern. Thanks  to  the  much  appreciated  efforts 
of  the  sisterly  State  of  Qatar  and  the  roles  of  the 
African  Union  and  the  United  Nations,  including  the 
assistance  of  regional  and  international  partners,  our 
ongoing efforts over many years culminated in July in 
the signing of the Doha Document for Peace in Darfur. 

In  the  spirit  of  the  Doha  Document,  Mr. Al-Haj 
Adam  Youssef,  one  of  Darfur’s  most  notable  leaders 
and  himself  a  son  of  Darfur,  was  appointed  Deputy 
President  of  the  republic.  In  addition,  just  two  days 
ago, Khartoum welcomed Mr. Tijani Sese, leader of the 
recovery 
and 
return  of 
for 
for 
reconciliation, 
reparations, 
development, 
the  voluntary 
Liberation and Justice Movement, which is a signatory 
to  the  Doha  Document  for  Peace  in  Darfur,  who  has 
been  appointed  to  head  the  regional  authority  of 
Darfur.  In  other  words,  the  sons  of  Darfur  are  now 
themselves responsible for Darfur regionally, and at the 
federal  level  are  represented  in  the  post  of  Deputy 
President.  One  of  the  main  priorities  of  the  regional 
authority  of  Darfur  is  to  bring  about  full  peace  and 
stability  through  urgent  development  projects  focused 
reconstruction, 
on 
to 
including  creating  an  environment  conducive 
stability  and 
internally 
displaced persons.  

The Government of the Sudan has also approved 
the allocation of £2 billion annually as an initial step in 
order to achieve those objectives. Our sisterly State of 
Qatar  has  also  announced  the  allocation  of  $2  million 
to assist in the reconstruction of Darfur. In other words, 
the  process  of  peace,  reconstruction  and  development 
has  already  started  in  Darfur.  The  Doha  Document, 
which  is  already  being  implemented,  contains  clear 
guidelines 
justice, 
settlements  and  the  restoration  of  the  social  fabric  of 
Darfur.  Would  it  not  be  better  for  the  international 
community to support those efforts, as it has done with 
other  countries  that  suffered  similar  conflicts?  As  I 
mentioned  earlier,  it  should  do  so  by  encouraging 
reconciliation and the peaceful settlement of disputes. 
The  Sudan  has  its  own  judicial  system,  well 

known 
integrity  and 
professionalism  —  a  solid  legal  heritage  that  has 
spread beyond the borders of the Sudan itself to several 
other  States.  Our  legal  system  is  more  qualified  and 
capable than any other entity to restore the balance of 
justice  and 
the  various  claims  and 
grievances  arising  from  the  conflict  that  we  have 
already moved past by signing the Doha Document for 
Peace in Darfur. 

That  Document  calls  for  the  creation  of  special 
tribunals, which will start to work to uphold justice in 
Darfur.  In  accordance  with  the  Doha  Document,  we 
stand  ready  to  receive  international  observers  from 
United  Nations  and  other  entities  to  observe  the  work 
of  the  special  tribunals  as  they  restore  the  balance  of 
justice in Darfur. 
Mr.  Tag-Eldin  (Egypt):  At  the  outset,  I  would 

like to express Egypt’s appreciation to the President of 
the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  for  submitting 
its  quality,  efficiency, 
to  address 
14 

11-56550 
in 
important  role 
in  promoting  universal  adherence 


the report under consideration today (A/66/309), and to 
the  Court  for  playing  an 
the 
development  of  concepts  of  international  criminal  law 
to  address  the  heinous  crimes  committed  against 
peoples and societies and to fight impunity. 

At this time of fundamental change in the Middle 
East,  adhering  to  the  principles  of  the  Rome  Statute 
and other international human rights instruments sends 
a  strong  and  unequivocal  message  to  the  international 
community  that  we  have  to  embrace  these  shifting 
times and commit to human rights and the rule of law. 
During  the  past  few  months,  Egypt  has  demonstrated 
its  unflinching  commitment  to  enter  into  a  new  era  in 
which society is guided by clear rules, by the principles 
of  justice  and  equality  before  the  law  and  by  the 
practice  of  respect  for  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms. 

International  criminal  tribunals  are  becoming 
increasingly important in the enforcement of the rule of 
law  and 
to 
international  law,  international  humanitarian  law  and 
human  rights  law,  in  the  service  of  maintaining 
international peace and security. It is a well established 
principle  that  their  role  is  complementary  to  that  of 
national 
the  primary 
jurisdiction  to  prosecute  their  citizens  who  commit 
such crimes. In the meantime, it should be understood 
that the sovereignty of States entails responsibility, and 
any  State’s  primary  responsibility  is  to  ensure  the 
safety and security of its citizens and protect its people 
from crimes. 

Egypt welcomes the increased engagement of the 
Court with the League of Arab States, and participated 
actively  in  the  regional  diplomatic  conference  on  the 
Court convened in May 2011 in Qatar. That conference 
was the first major event of its kind in the Middle East 
aimed at providing information on the workings of the 
Court  and  its  legal  framework.  Moreover,  Egypt 
continues its constructive dialogue with the Court. We 
received the Court’s Prosecutor, in an effort to enhance 
cooperation  with  the  Court  as  a  State  not  party  to  the 
Rome Statute. 

In  the  same  vein,  Egypt  took  note  of  the 
outcomes  of  the  Review  Conference  of  the  Rome 
Statute  convened  from  31  May  to  11  June  2010  in 
Kampala,  at  which  States  parties  made  significant 
pledges on a wide range of issues, one of which was to 
arrive at a definition of the crime of aggression, taking 
judiciaries,  which  have 
A/66/PV.44
in 
the 
into account the importance of that issue, especially as 
circumstances  and  developments  on  the  international 
scene indicate the need to reach such a definition. That 
will  enable  the  Court  to  exercise  its  jurisdiction  over 
that  crime  along  the  lines  of  the  other  crimes  falling 
within its jurisdiction. 

The  Court  can  also  benefit  from  the  ongoing 
discussions  in  the  International  Law  Commission  on 
the  immunity  of  State  officials  from  foreign  criminal 
jurisdiction,  with  a  view  to  enriching  dialogue  and 
exchange  of  views  among  the  international  legal  and 
judicial  bodies  working 
framework  of 
multilateralism, which should enhance conformity and 
complementarity in the work of those bodies.  

Egypt also stresses that the International Criminal 
Court should continue to pursue a balanced approach in 
its  work  by  adopting  a  policy  that  accentuates  its 
judicial  nature,  so  as  to  ensure  its  impartiality  and 
independence  and  allow  the  Court  to  assume  its  legal 
and moral obligations. Furthermore, the procedures for 
investigating,  gathering  evidence  and  authenticating 
documents need to be improved, especially with regard 
to  investigating  crimes  and  providing  strong  material 
evidence,  to  confirm  the  consistency  of  the  crimes 
committed and those defined in the Statute.  

Consequently,  Egypt  reiterates  that  the  Court 
should  respect  the  considerations  to  which  I  have 
referred  when  dealing  with  the African  cases  referred 
to it. The Court should also consider cases from other 
parts  of 
the  continued 
consideration  of  cases  focused  on  one  region  of  the 
world  may  give  the  mistaken  impression  that  crimes 
against humanity are being committed only in Africa or 
that the Court does not target other regions where those 
crimes are also being committed. The Security Council 
should also take that into consideration when referring 
cases  to  the  ICC.  In  that  context,  Egypt  expresses  its 
support to the call of the African Union to the Security 
Council to defer the processes initiated by the ICC with 
regard  to  the  cases  of  the  Sudan  and  Kenya,  in 
accordance  with  the  provisions  of  article  16  of  the 
Rome Statute. 

It is  also imperative that the Prosecutor expedite 
the  decision  to  begin  the  investigation  of  the  crimes 
against  humanity 
the  occupied 
Palestinian  territory.  We  reaffirm  the  responsibility  of 
the 
the 
recommendations  of  the  report  of  the  United  Nations 
international  community 
the  world.  Otherwise, 
follow  up 
committed 
in 
to 
11-56550 

15 

on 
that 
there 
that  we  all  strive 
to 
the  Court  should  ensure 
A/66/PV.44 

the  Gaza  Conflict 
Fact-Finding  Mission 
(A/HRC/12/48),  as  recommended  by 
the  General 
Assembly in its resolution 64/10, of 5 November 2009, 
and  resolution  64/254,  of  26  February  2010.  In  that 
regard, 
is 
definitively no impunity, as a prerequisite to upholding 
the  word  of  justice  and  the  establishment  of  legal 
norms 
implement,  while 
consolidating  the  application  of  the  rule  of  law  to  all 
peoples and communities, without exception. 
Mr. Wenaweser  (Liechtenstein):  I  would  like  to 

thank the President of the International Criminal Court 
(ICC)  for  presenting  another  rich  report  on 
the 
activities of the Court (A/66/309). The Court continues 
to have a profound impact in several conflict and post-
conflict situations in furtherance of its mandate to fight 
impunity, in accordance with the Rome Statute. We are 
particularly  pleased  that  the  number  of  States  parties 
has grown to 119, just one shy of the number of States 
that  voted  in  favour  of  the  Rome  Statute  in  1998. We 
warmly  welcome  Cape  Verde,  the  Philippines,  the 
Maldives, Tunisia and Grenada as new members of the 
ICC family. 

the 
universality of the Rome Statute bears testament to its 
quality and to the highly professional work carried out 
by  the  Court.  More  and  more  States  are  willing  to 
support  the  Rome  Statute  system,  and  accept  the 
jurisdiction of the ICC as complementary to their own 
primary  jurisdiction.  While  the  acceptance  of  the 
Court’s  jurisdiction  is  not  yet  universal,  the  main 
principle underlying the Rome Statute indeed is. There 
must  be  no  impunity  for  the  worst  crimes  under 
international law. Indeed, in writing the Rome Statute, 
States  merely  confirmed  and  further  codified  that 
principle,  which  was  well  established  in  pre-existing 
international  law.  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute 
avail themselves of an additional mechanism by which 
they can promote the implementation of that principle.  

In  addition,  the  Security  Council,  utilizing  its 
powers under the Charter and under the Rome Statute, 
may  also  trigger  the  Court’s  jurisdiction.  That  the 
Council has chosen to do so twice in the short history 
of  the  Court  is  a  further  testament  to  the  widespread 
recognition of the quality of the Court’s work. 

We  would  like  to  encourage  all  States  that  have 
not  yet  done  so  to  consider  the  advantages  of  joining 
the Rome Statute. The most important of those is that 
The  new  momentum 
in 
the  quest  for 
The  ICC 
the  Court,  as  an  independent  international  institution, 
may  if  necessary  conduct  investigations  and  trials 
concerning crimes committed on the territory of a State 
party  or  by  its  nationals.  The  Court  thus  provides 
protection,  through  its  deterrent  effect,  as  well  as  a 
system of accountability and justice with strong regard 
for the rights of victims.  

is  not  a  mechanism  of  universal 
jurisdiction, as has been said before from this rostrum. 
Rather,  it  builds  mainly  on  the  existing  territorial 
jurisdiction  of  the  State  concerned.  It  also  provides 
protection  to  States  parties  with  regard  to  crimes  that 
may  be  committed  on  their  territories  by  nationals  of 
other  States,  including  States  not  party  to  the  Statute. 
The Court’s jurisdiction is, however, complementary to 
domestic  jurisdiction,  which  takes  precedence  as  long 
as  national  authorities  are  willing  and  able  to  conduct 
genuine investigations and prosecutions. 

The ICC is one of the most important tools in the 
fight  against  impunity,  but  it  is  not  the  only  one.  It  is 
States  themselves  that  play  the  greatest  role  in  that 
respect.  Fighting  impunity  is,  in  most  cases,  best 
undertaken at the national level, in particular since the 
ICC and other international mechanisms can only deal 
with  a  limited  number  of  cases.  It  is  thus  imperative 
that  all  States  —  not  just  States  party  to  the  Rome 
Statute — ensure domestic capacity and willingness to 
investigate  and  prosecute  the  most  serious  crimes 
under international law.  

The  international  community  must  do  better  in 
encouraging and assisting such efforts. We believe that 
the  efforts  conducted  within  the  United  Nations  could 
be  strengthened 
in 
particular  through  the  Rule  of  Law  Coordination  and 
Resource Group. 

Recent  and  ongoing  events  in  North  Africa  and 
the  Middle  East  have  once  again  highlighted  the 
particular  challenges  and  the  indispensable  role  of 
justice  mechanisms  in  conflict  resolution. The  victims 
of  crimes  and  human  rights  violations  deserve  and 
demand  justice,  just  as  much  as  they  deserve  and 
demand peace. As numerous examples in the past have 
shown,  transitional  processes  must  include  a  justice 
component  as  a 
fundamental  building  block  of 
sustainable  peace. Amnesties  for  those  responsible  for 
the  most  serious  crimes  are  inherently  incompatible 
with  that  principle  and  risk  reigniting  the  cycle  of 
violence. 
through  better  coordination, 
16 

11-56550 
receive  due  cooperation 



Earlier this year, the Security Council referred the 
situation  in  Libya  to  the  International  Criminal  Court 
in resolution 1970 (2011). It did so, for the first time in 
history, by a unanimous vote. That swift action allowed 
the Court to initiate its investigations at an early stage 
and therefore in a most efficient manner. It is our hope, 
however, that the Council has learned the lessons of the 
Darfur  referral  and  will,  if  necessary,  insist  that  the 
Court 
from  all  States 
concerned.  

Such long-term follow-up is an indispensable part 
of responsible interaction with the Court, which should 
not  simply  be  employed  as  a  short-term  exit  strategy 
for complex conflict situations. In that context, we also 
note  that  the  issue  of  funding  of  ICC  investigations 
mandated by the Council remains an open question that 
should  be  addressed,  in  accordance  with  the  United 
Nations Charter and the Rome Statute — and it should 
be addressed by the General Assembly. 

Since  this  is  the  last  chance  I  have  to  speak  on 
this  topic  while  also  serving  as  President  of  the 
Assembly  of  States  Parties  to  the  Rome  Statute,  I 
would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  all  the 
States parties for the trust they have placed in me over 
the past three years.  
Mr.  Zellweger  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 

My delegation would first like to thank President Sang-
Hyun Song for presenting the seventh annual report of 
the  International  Criminal  Court  (see  A/66/309).  We 
also  wish  to  express  our  appreciation  to  all  the  staff 
members of the Court for their daily efforts in fulfilling 
their work, which is constantly growing. 

My  delegation  would  like  to  bring  five  points  to 
the  attention  of  the  General  Assembly.  First,  the 
International Criminal Court is now an integral part of 
the  international  architecture.  The  year  2011  was 
marked  by  the  unanimous  decision  of  the  Security 
Council  to  refer  the  situation  in  Libya  to  the  Court  in 
resolution  1970  (2011). That  constituted  a  recognition 
of  the  fight  against  impunity  as  a  precondition  for 
lasting peace. It also reflects the fact that the Court has 
become  a  necessary  and  indispensable  instrument  for 
the 
that 
development. 

That  brings  me  to  my  second  point.  The  Court 
cannot  be  effective  in  isolation.  We  should  consider 
specific  proposals  on  how  the  Court’s  activities  could 
be  better  integrated  into  the  international  system.  The 
international  community.  We  welcome 
A/66/PV.44
Court should be considered an essential component of 
the  international  community’s  efforts,  particularly  in 
post-conflict  situations.  It  can  only  develop  its  full 
potential in close cooperation with all efforts to restore 
the rule of law and to deal with the past. 

We  therefore  emphasize  how  crucially  important 
it is for the  Court to be  able to  cooperate  with States, 
regional  and 
international  organizations  and  civil 
society, both at the institutional and operational levels. 
However,  it  is  essential,  of  course,  that  such  an 
integration  be  carried  out  with  full  respect  for  the 
Court’s independence. 

Thirdly,  with  119  States  parties,  the  Court’s 
march  towards  universality  is  inevitable.  This  should 
encourage  States  that  still  have  fears  or  reservations 
about  it  to  seriously  consider  ratifying  the  Rome 
Statute and becoming active members of the Assembly 
of  States  Parties  to  the  Rome  Statute.  Moreover,  the 
prompt ratification of the Kampala amendments to the 
Rome Statute is also necessary in order to help realize 
the  Court’s  bid  for  universal  standing.  Clearly,  the 
inclusion  of  the  crime  of  aggression  in  the  Rome 
Statute  is  a  milestone  that  strengthens  ius  contra 
bellum. That should be applauded. 

the 
mission of the Court, and the fight against impunity in 
general,  entail  real  responsibilities.  On  the  one  hand, 
the  ICC  is  responsible  for  selecting  the  situations  and 
cases it follows. It must be able to explain why it takes 
action  in  some  cases  and  not  in  others.  On  the  other 
hand, those who refer situations to the Court also bear 
a  responsibility.  If  they  ask  the  ICC  to  become 
involved  in  a  situation,  they  must  fully  assume  the 
consequences.  For  example,  they  cannot  invoke  so-
called alternative routes to justice. 

More  generally,  States  must  show  complete 
consistency in their support for the Court. One cannot 
applaud the issuance of arrest warrants in one case and 
criticize  them  or  even  fail  to  execute  them  in  other 
cases.  That  does  not  mean  that  the  Court  is  above 
criticism.  On  the  contrary,  it  must  be  accountable  for 
its  activities  to  the Assembly  of  States  Parties  as  well 
to the international community as a whole. 

Fifthly  —  and  this  is  my  last  point  —  the 
responsibility of States parties to the Court implies that 
it  be  given  the  means  to  fully  carry  out  its  mandate. 
When the United Nations makes a referral to the Court, 
thereby  increasing  its  work  load,  the  question  arises 
Fourthly,  Switzerland  underscores 
that 
11-56550 

17 

law 
criminal 
system,  which 
A/66/PV.44 

whether  it  would  not  be  reasonable  to  expect  the 
United  Nations  to  contribute  towards  covering  the 
related costs. 
In  conclusion,  the  Court  is  a  channel  for  the 

international 
is 
progressively  developing.  The  fight  against  impunity 
pursues  a  civilizing  goal  —  a  more  humane  and 
peaceful  world.  To  accomplish  its  mission,  the  Court 
needs our full support. Its activities this year have once 
again shown us that it fully deserves that support. 
Mr.  Yamazaki  (Japan):  I  would  like  to  thank 

President  Sang-Hyun  Song  for  his  in-depth  report  on 
the  most  recent  work  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court  (ICC)  (see  A/66/309).  Japan  attaches  great 
importance  to  the  rule  of  law  in  the  international 
community.  In  that  regard,  we  have  been  actively 
assisting  the  work  of  the  ICC,  which  is  the  only 
permanent  international  criminal  court  contributing  to 
the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security 
through  the  punishment  of  the  most  serious  crimes  of 
concern to the international community as a whole. 

Our basic stance on the Court can be expressed in 
the  following  four  words  —  effectiveness,  efficiency, 
universality and sustainability. Those four criteria will 
determine  the  future  of  the  ICC  and  whether  we  can 
universalize  it. As  the  number  of  the  States  parties  to 
the  Rome  Statute 
for 
perpetrators  will  be  reduced  and  preventive  effects 
should be enhanced. 

To encourage more States to become members of 
the  ICC,  the  Court  should  produce  a  solid  record  of 
performance  by  both  effectively  implementing  its 
activities  and  efficiently  managing  the  conduct  of  its 
work.  In  order  for  the  Court  to  realize  effectiveness 
and  efficiency,  it  is  important  for  us  to  bear  in  mind 
that we should not put excessive burdens on the Court, 
but  rather  develop  it  in  a  systematically  sustainable 
way. 
As this year’s report by the Court mentions, five 

new  States  acceded  to  or  ratified  the  Rome  Statute 
during the reporting period. The Government of Japan 
would  like  to  welcome  those  new  members  and  is 
looking  forward  to  working  with  them.  Besides  those 
five  States,  the Asia-Pacific  Group  has  witnessed  two 
States  becoming  new  members  of  the  ICC  more 
recently this year. The Government of Japan would like 
to  extend  our  warm  welcome  to  the  Republic  of  the 
Philippines  and  the  Republic  of  Maldives.  Although 
safe  havens 
increases, 
finally 
in 
Let  me 
touch  upon 
those two States bring the number of the States parties 
in  the  Asia-Pacific  Group  to  17,  we  would  like  to 
continue especially encouraging the Asia-Pacific States 
that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  accede  to  or  ratify  the 
Statute and join the circle to end impunity. 

issue  of 
the 
cooperation.  The  experience  of  the  ICC,  although 
relatively  short,  has  reaffirmed  the  importance  of 
cooperation  among  the  various  stakeholders.  There  is 
no doubt that cooperation by States is indispensable for 
the effective and efficient implementation of the Rome 
Statute,  including  the  arrest  and  surrender  of  suspects 
and  the  collection  of  evidence.  In  those  cases  where 
full  cooperation  has  been  extended  by  the  States 
concerned,  the  ICC  is  making  steady  progress. Where 
such  cooperation  has  not  been  forthcoming,  the  ICC 
faces serious challenges.  

Close cooperation among the Court, States parties 
and  civil  society  is  also  essential  for  the  further 
development  of  the  Court.  In  addition,  cooperation 
between  the  Court  and  the  United  Nations,  including 
the  Security  Council,  is  becoming  more  important, 
especially as we have witnessed the second referral by 
the  Security  Council  to  the  Court  this  year.  The 
Government  of  Japan  is  willing  to  actively  and 
constructively participate in the discussion on the way 
forward to further strengthen cooperation. 

Japan sincerely hopes that the points it has raised 
today  will  be  given  serious  consideration  by  the  ICC, 
the States parties, other States and civil society.  
the  sincere 

appreciation  of  Japan  for  the  work  that  the  ICC  has 
accomplished  to  date.  It  is  our  hope  that  the  ICC  will 
the  fight  against 
continue 
impunity  and 
its  credibility  and 
reputation.  In  that  regard,  Japan  is  determined  to 
continue  to  strengthen  its  contribution  to  the  ICC  and 
thus to the establishment of the rule of law throughout 
the international community. 
Mr.  Limeres  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Argentina expresses its appreciation and recognition to 
the  President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court, 
Sang-Hyun  Song,  for  submitting  the  report  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  contained  in  document 
A/66/309. 

The Rome Statute and the International Criminal 
Court  are  among  the  most  notable  achievements  of 
to  work  diligently 
let  me  express 
In  conclusion, 
to  consolidate 
18 

11-56550 
This  year  finds 
the  Rome  Statute  and 


multilateral  diplomacy,  and  their  contribution  to  the 
fight  against  impunity  with  regard  to  crimes  against 
humanity, genocide and war  crimes is  evident.  Only  a 
decade  after  the  adoption  of  the  Rome  Statute,  the 
Court  is  a  fully  functioning  permanent  international 
criminal tribunal. 

Since the last report of the International Criminal 
Court  to  this Assembly  (see A/65/313),  in  addition  to 
the  situations  in  Uganda;  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo;  the  Central  African  Republic;  Darfur, 
Sudan;  and  Kenya,  the  Security  Council  referred  the 
situation  in  Libya  to  the  ICC,  and  Pre-Trial  Chamber 
III  authorized  the  Prosecutor  to  open  an  investigation 
on  Côte  d’Ivoire.  The  Prosecutor  is  also  carrying  out 
preliminary examinations  of situations in Afghanistan, 
Colombia,  Georgia,  Guinea,  Honduras,  Nigeria,  the 
Republic of Korea and Palestine. 

the 
International Criminal Court even stronger than before. 
To  date,  119  States  are  parties  to  the  Statute.  In  this 
regard,  I  would  like  to  welcome  to  the  Statute  Cape 
Verde,  the  Philippines,  Grenada,  the  Maldives  and 
Tunisia. 

The  other  reason  for  satisfaction  is  the  first 
ratification of the amendments to the Rome Statute, by 
San Marino. 
Regarding  the  amendments  to  the  Rome  Statute, 

let us recall that the modification of article 8 has added 
to  the  war  crimes  committed  in  the  context  of  armed 
conflicts  of  a  non-international  character  the  use  of 
poison  or  poisoned  weapons,  the  use  of  asphyxiating, 
poisonous  or  other  gases  and  all  analogous  liquids, 
materials  or  devices,  and  the  use  of  bullets  which 
expand  or  flatten  easily  in  the  human  body.  Such 
amendments  are  a  step  forward  in  the  fight  against 
impunity 
international 
humanitarian law. 

But  it  is  the  amendments  on  the  crime  of 
aggression that determined the historic significance of 
the 2010 Kampala Review Conference, given that, with 
the  adoption  of  articles  8  bis,  15  bis  and  15  ter,  the 
mandate of the now deleted paragraph 2 of article 5 of 
the Rome Statute, regarding the crime of aggression, is 
fulfilled. 

The Court will be able to exercise its jurisdiction 
over crimes of aggression committed one year after the 
ratification  or  acceptance  of  the  amendments  by 
regarding 
breaches 
of 
11-56550 

A/66/PV.44
to 
refer 
the  situation 
30 States  parties  and  when  the  parties  have  adopted  a 
decision, after 1 January 2017, to activate the exercise 
of  jurisdiction  of  the  Court  in  accordance  with  the 
amendment.  

We  the  States  parties  must  commit  ourselves  to 
ratifying the amendments adopted in Kampala as soon 
as possible. 

Through  resolution  1970  (2011),  the  Security 
Council,  acting  under  Chapter  VII  of  the  Charter, 
decided 
in  Libya  since 
15 February  2011  to  the  Prosecutor  of  the  Court.  We 
support  that  decision.  But  there  are  two  aspects  about 
which  I  would  like  to  express  Argentina’s  serious 
concern, given their potential significant impact on the 
international  criminal  justice  system  established  with 
its basis in the Court. 


Paragraph 6 of the resolution provides that  
“nationals,  current  or 
former  officials  or 
personnel  from  a  State  outside  the  Libyan  Arab 
Jamahiriya  which  is  not  a  party  to  the  Rome 
Statute  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  shall 
be  subject  to  the  exclusive  jurisdiction  of  that 
State for all alleged acts or omissions arising out 
of  or  related  to  operations  in  the  Libyan  Arab 
Jamahiriya  established  or  authorized  by 
the 
Council,  unless  such  exclusive  jurisdiction  has 
been expressly waived by the State”.  

The  Security  Council  followed  the  dangerous 
precedent  in  the  referral of the case of  Darfur, Sudan, 
of creating for Security Council referrals exceptions to 
the Court’s jurisdiction that are not provided for in the 
Rome Statute. 

The  other  area  in  which  the  Security  Council 
adopted a decision that could have a serious impact on 
the  Court  is  the  contents  of  paragraph  8  of  resolution 
1970 (2011), in which the Council recognized that  

“none  of  the  expenses  incurred  in  connection 
with the referral … shall be borne by the United 
Nations and that such costs shall be borne by the 
parties to the Rome Statute …”. 
Such a provision is inconsistent with Article 115 of the 
Rome Statute, paragraph (b) of which provides that the 
expenses  of  the  Court  and  the  Assembly  of  States 
Parties shall be provided by  

“(f)unds provided by the United Nations, subject 
to  the  approval  of  the  General  Assembly,  in 
19 
A/66/PV.44 


regard 
to  budgetary  matters, 
particular in relation to the expenses incurred due 
to referrals by the Security Council”.  

The  summary  of  the  annual  report  of  the  Court 
points out that “the growing casework and the referral 
of  a  new  situation  by  the  Security  Council  has 
increased  pressure  on  the  resources  available  to  the 
Court”. 
Beyond the competence of the General Assembly 

with 
the  2004 
Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United  Nations 
and the International Criminal Court also governs this 
issue.  In  article  13  the  Agreement  provides  that  “the 
conditions under which any funds may be provided to 
the Court by a decision of the General Assembly of the 
United  Nations  pursuant  to  article  115  of  the  Statute 
shall  be  subject  to  separate  arrangements”  and  that 
“[t]he  Registrar  shall  inform  the  Assembly  of  the 
making of such arrangements”. Nevertheless, the issue 
of  the  conditions  for  the  provision  of  funds  by  the 
United  Nations  in  accordance  with  article  115  of  the 
Rome Statute has not been addressed.  

We therefore urge Member States to take up this 
issue,  given  that  in  the  present  situation,  in  which  the 
Court  is  fully  functioning  in  a  variety  of  cases  — 
including 
the  Security 
Council — the failure to take action with respect to the 
funds to be provided by the United Nations by virtue of 
article  115  of  the  Statute  will  only  have  a  negative 
impact on the cases currently before the Court and on 
the proprio motu action of the Prosecutor. 
The  International  Criminal  Court  is  the  first 

permanent  international  criminal  tribunal.  For  the  full 
exercise of its jurisdiction, the cooperation of States, in 
particular  States  parties,  is  required. The  report  of  the 
Court  indicates  that  warrants  of  arrest  are  outstanding 
for  a  total  of  12  suspects  and  that  the  cooperation  of 
States in bringing these persons to justice continues to 
be a key condition for the effective implementation of 
the Court’s mandate. 

We should recall that Part 9 of the Rome Statute 
establishes  obligations  for  the  States  parties. We  must 
full 
therefore  strengthen  our  efforts 
cooperation  with 
the 
enforcement  of  Court  decisions  and  the  execution  of 
warrants of arrest. 
to  ensure 
in 
in  particular 
the  Court, 
referred 
it  by 
those 
to 

I shall finish by recalling the goals and purposes 
of  the  Rome  Statute,  as  stated  in  the  Kampala 
Declaration:  

“the  noble  mission  and 
the 
International  Criminal  Court  in  a  multilateral 
system  that  aims  to  end  impunity,  establish  the 
rule  of  law,  promote  and  encourage  respect  for 
human  rights  and  achieve  sustainable  peace,  in 
accordance  with 
the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations”, 
international 
law  and 
role  of 
the 
to 
the 
the 
thank 
We  welcome 
the  President  of 
and  to  reiterate,  once  again,  the  firm  commitment  of 
Argentina to the International Criminal Court. 
Mrs.  Morgan  (Mexico)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

the 
Mexico  wishes 
International  Criminal  Court,  Judge  Sang-Hyun  Song, 
for his presentation of the seventh annual report of the 
Court to the United Nations (see A/66/309).  

recent  accession 
to  and 
ratification  of  the  Rome  Statute  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court  by  five  States.  To  date,  119  States 
Members  of  the  United  Nations  have  become  States 
parties  to  the  Rome  Statute,  which  demonstrates  the 
clear trend towards the universalization of the Statute. 

In  the  nine  years  since  the  operationalization  of 
the new judiciary system created by the Rome Statute, 
we  have  seen 
International  Criminal  Court 
gradually  consolidate  its  commitment  to  end  impunity 
for  the  commission  of  the  most  serious  crimes  with 
international  importance.  This  year  will  be  especially 
representative, since it will mark the conclusion of the 
first  trial  undertaken  by  the  Court  since  its  creation. 
The  Lubanga  case  will  undoubtedly  constitute  a 
watershed in international justice, since it becomes the 
first  case  to  be  tried  by  a  permanent  international 
criminal tribunal. Mexico welcomes that and the other 
advances in the Court’s judicial work, as detailed in the 
report (see A/66/309). 

Despite  the  foregoing,  and  despite  the  Court’s 
immense  efforts,  there  are  still  important  challenges 
that  we  the  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  must 
resolve.  

To ensure the efficacy of the Court’s endeavours 
in  the  investigation  and  prosecution  of  crimes,  we 
Member  States  must  ensure  that  outstanding  arrest 
warrants  are  executed  and  that  there  is  cooperation 
with  the  authorities  of  the  Court.  We  believe  it  is 
20 

11-56550 
to  demonstrate 


relevant to emphasize that States’ full cooperation with 
the  Court  is  a  fundamental  requirement  so  that  it  can 
carry out the mandate for which it was created. 

The  challenges  facing  the  Court  require  the 
collaboration  of  States  and  regional  and  international 
organizations to fully and effectively solidify the Court 
as  an  institution,  to  make  it  a  promoter  of  the  rule  of 
law  at  the  international  level  and  a  true  model  of 
justice that complements the rule of law within each of 
its member States. 
On the other hand, the coming months will offer 

an 
the 
important  opportunity 
institutional  strength  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court.  During  the  tenth  session  of  the  Assembly  of 
States  Parties,  the  Court  will  undergo  a  change  in 
leadership.  The  States  parties  will  be  asked  to  elect  a 
new  Prosecutor  and  six  judges,  who  in  turn  will  elect 
the next President of the Court. The Assembly will also 
have  to  examine  matters  related  to  governability  and 
the lack of cooperation of States and will have to adopt 
a  budget  that  reflects  the  Court’s  true  needs  but  that 
also reflects the difficult global economic situation.  
Those  challenges  are  not  small.  The  Court  will 

need to demonstrate that, beyond the personalities that 
have  accompanied  it  in  its  first  steps,  it  has  sufficient 
institutional strength to meet the judicial challenges in 
an unfavourable political and economic context. 

the  Court’s  efficiency,  one 
fundamental  matter  on  which  all  States  parties  to  the 
Rome Statute will need to agree is the financing of its 
activities.  The  Court’s  mandate  must  be  supported  by 
the funds required for the investigation and prosecution 
of  crimes  and 
institutional 
functioning.  

Equally  important  to  the  Court’s  effectiveness  is 
the  primacy  of  the  principle  of  equity.  My  delegation 
firmly  believes  that  international  criminal  justice  does 
not  refer  simply  to  the  set  of  rules  that  govern 
international  society  but  that  it  also  implies  equity 
between the States and organizations that participate in 
it.  In  that  respect,  my  delegation  firmly  supports  the 
idea  of  finding  a  formula  by  which  international 
organizations  that  refer  cases  to  the  International 
Criminal  Court  can  participate,  on  an  equitable  basis, 
in financing its activities.  

Other  matters  relevant  to  the  near-term  future  of 
this tribunal have to do with reparations for damages to 
that  guarantee 
With  respect 
its 
to 
A/66/PV.44
International  Criminal  Court 
victims. We will pay attention to developments on this 
issue in the future.  

With regard to integrity, Mexico believes it would 
be useful to undertake an analysis of the good practices 
of  other  international  tribunals  in  order  to  ensure  that 
the 
incorporates 
experiences of proven success.  

Mexico wishes to reiterate its commitment to the 
International Criminal Court and to strengthening it as 
an  institution. This  year,  as  in  previous  years,  Mexico 
also  introduced  a  resolution  on  the  Court  in  the 
Organization  of American  States,  urging  the  countries 
of the region to ratify and implement the Rome Statute 
and  to  cooperate  with  the  Court.  Mexico  has  also 
continued  to  participate  actively  in  the  working  group 
on  amendments,  where  we  have  presented  a  draft 
proposal  to  include  the  use  of  nuclear  weapons  as  a 
crime falling under the jurisdiction of the Court.  
The  work  of  the  Court  contributes  to  achieving 

the  goals  of  maintaining  peace  and  international 
security that gave rise to the United Nations. It is up to 
the  international  community  to  work  in  concert  to 
maintain  the  efficacy,  efficiency  and  integrity  of  the 
Rome Statute and to help solidify the Court’s position 
as a model of justice. Mexico reiterates its commitment 
to that goal. 
Mr. Sorreta (Philippines): I am pleased to join in 

today’s debate by affirming and expressing at the very 
outset the commitment of my country and my people to 
fighting impunity in all corners of our world. 

the 
117th State to join the Rome Statute with the deposit of 
our  instrument  of  ratification  with  the  Secretary-
General  of  the  United  Nations.  That  was  an  historic 
moment for my country and my people. We had stood 
up to the impunity of  colonial rule  and  a dictatorship. 
Now  we  stand  with  the  rest  of  the  world  in  saying 
“Never again” to impunity anywhere. 

Today  we  renew  that  pledge.  Respect  for  and 
adherence  to  human  rights  are  cornerstones  of  any 
thriving  democracy  and  foundations  of  a  stable  and 
secure  global  community. 
the 
responsibility  of  every  individual,  and  even  more  so, 
every  State,  to  promote,  uphold  and  protect  human 
rights. 
Today  the  Philippines  says  that  there  should  be 

no space for impunity in our world. Justice and the rule 
the  Philippines  became 
On  30  August 
therefore 
is 
It 
11-56550 

21 
to 
to 
its 
the  Rome  Statute  and 
A/66/PV.44 

of law dictate that those who act with impunity must be 
held  accountable.  In  that  regard,  the  Philippines  has 
launched its candidature for a seat on the International 
Criminal Court. In Ms. Miriam Defensor Santiago, the 
Philippines has found someone eminently qualified for 
that  position.  We  hope  that  our  friends  and  partners 
will support our efforts to be part of the Court. 

The  Philippines  welcomes  the  report  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  on  its  activities  in  2009 
and  2010  (see  A/65/313),  which  details  the  inroads 
made by the International Criminal Court in the global 
fight  against  impunity.  We  would  like  to  thank  Judge 
Sang-Hyun  Song,  President  of  the  Court,  for  his 
exhaustive report.  

We  note  the  Review  Conference  of  the  Rome 
Statute  that  was  held  in  Kampala.  The  Kampala 
the  commitment  of  States 
Declaration  reaffirmed 
parties 
full 
implementation,  as  well  as 
its  universality  and 
integrity. 
The  decision  to  celebrate  17  July  as  the  Day  of 

International  Criminal 
the 
importance of the Rome Statute, which was adopted on 
that historic day in 1998. 

The  Philippines  also  notes  the  stocktaking  on 
international  criminal  justice  held  during  the  Review 
Conference, which focused on the impact of the Rome 
Statute  system  on  victims  and  affected  communities, 
peace 
and 
cooperation.  The  Declaration  on  Cooperation,  the 
Philippines  believes,  is  vital  in  helping  to  provide 
support and improved assistance to States that seek to 
enhance their cooperation with the Court. 

The  Philippines  likewise  notes  that  the  Court  is 
seized  of  seven  situations  and  is  closely  following 
developments  in  that  regard.  The  opening  of  a  new 
investigation, the three ongoing trials, the dismissal of 
charges  against  a  suspect,  the  voluntary  appearance, 
pursuant  to  a  summons  to  appear,  of  two  suspects  in 
the  Darfur  situation,  and  the  issuance  of  the  second 
warrant  of  arrest  are  significant  developments  in  the 
work  of  the  Court  and  demonstrate  a  firm  resolve  to 
address  impunity.  We  note  that  the  execution  of  the 
nine outstanding warrants  remains one  of the  pressing 
challenges. 

The Philippines views with interest, together with 
others,  the  activities  of  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor, 
complementarity 
underscores 
justice, 
Justice 
and 
and 

of 
On 
and 
apprised 
institutional 
international  cooperation, 
which  continues  to  work  to  proactively  monitor  all 
information  on  crimes  potentially  falling  within  the 
jurisdiction of the Court. 

the  Philippines 
welcomes  the  Court’s  continued  contact  with  the 
United Nations Office of Legal Affairs with respect to 
the testimony of United Nations officials, the provision 
of  information  and  the  mainstreaming  of  the  Court 
throughout the United Nations system. The Philippines 
also  welcomes  the  efforts  made  by  the  Court  to  keep 
itself 
judicial 
developments  with  respect  to  the  cabinets  of  the 
Secretary-General  and  the  Deputy  Secretary-General, 
the  Department  of  Peacekeeping  Operations, 
the 
Department  of  Political  Affairs,  the  Office  for  the 
Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs  and  UNICEF, 
among others. This demonstrates the vital link between 
the activities of the United Nations and the mandate of 
the Court. 

The  developments  set  out  in  the  report  show  the 
inroads  that  the  Court  has  achieved  in  prosecuting 
individuals  responsible  for  the  most  serious  crimes  of 
international  concern.  Yet  it  is  clear  that  challenges 
continue to confront the Court. 

In  closing,  allow  me  to  say  that  the  Philippines 
shall do its part as a State party to ensure that Court is 
able  to  serve  the  cause  of  justice,  consistent  with  its 
mandate. 

Mr. Mukongo Ngay (Democratic Republic of the 
Congo) (spoke in French): My delegation took note of 
the seventh annual report of the International Criminal 
Court  (ICC)  (see  A/66/309),  as  submitted  by  the 
President of the Court, Judge Song.  

My delegation would like to begin by associating 
itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  the  United  Republic  of Tanzania  on 
behalf of the African States parties. 

It  is  important  to  recall  that  the  situation  in  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo was referred to the 
ICC  by  the  Congolese  authorities,  on  behalf  of  the 
suffering  people  of  a  country 
in  a  post-conflict 
situation,  which  some  rightly  termed  the  first African 
world  war.  The  ICC  was  created  with  the  purpose  of 
addressing  this  kind  of  situation.  That  is  why  the 
formulation of the Rome Statute, while it may be mere 
theory for some, represents for the Congolese people a 
living  reality  that  they  have  experienced  and  continue 
22 

11-56550 
to  sidestep 


to experience. Wars and all forms of violence that strip 
human beings of their dignity and deny the sacredness 
of  life  know  no  boundaries.  That  reality,  which  some 
would  like  to  limit  to  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo  so  as 
their  obligations  and 
responsibilities, is intolerable and unacceptable. This is 
a matter that concerns us all, and cooperation with the 
ICC should lie at the heart of our efforts. 

With respect to cooperation, we would note once 
again that the Democratic Republic of the Congo is the 
first  State  party  to  have  developed  noteworthy  and 
exemplary  cooperation  with  the  ICC.  The  endeavours 
carried  out  in  that  respect  by  my  country  make  it  a 
model  of  cooperation  with  the  ICC,  as  evidenced  by 
several legal instruments. The Democratic Republic of 
the  Congo  did  not  wait  for  the  entry  into  force  of  the 
Rome Statute to ratify it. It did so on 30 March 2002, 
that  is,  more  than  three  months  before  the  entry  into 
force of the treaty. 

The  Democratic  Republic  of  the  Congo  took  the 
initiative of referring its situation to the ICC as early as 
3 March 2004, signed a judicial cooperation agreement 
with  the  Court  on  6  October  2004,  and  concluded  a 
legal  assistance  agreement  with  the  United  Nations 
Organization  Mission  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo  and  the  ICC.  The  Democratic  Republic  of 
the  Congo,  with  respect  to  the  proceedings  before  the 
Court, on three occasions appropriately executed arrest 
warrants  issued  by  the  ICC  with  respect  to  Congolese 
nationals.  

It is thus evident that the Democratic Republic of 
the  Congo  is  convinced  that  peace  and  justice  are 
complementary. We are fully aware of the irreplaceable 
role  of  justice  as  a  factor  in  social  cohesion,  national 
reconciliation,  peace,  security  and  stability.  It  was 
through  justice  that  peace  returned  to  the  region  of 
Ituri,  in  North  Katanga,  and  in  other  parts  of  the 
country. It is justice that enables peacebuilding efforts 
to continue with a view to ensuring security throughout 
our country. 
The  seventh  annual  report  of  the  ICC,  which  is 

under  discussion 
the  growing 
importance of the work of  the Court and of the Rome 
Statute in the international arena. Along those lines, my 
delegation  notes,  with  respect  to  the  situation  in  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo, that four cases are 
currently  being  considered,  two  of  which  are  at  the 
preliminary examination stage. My delegation is aware 
today,  underscores 
A/66/PV.44
it 
that 
the  Court 
important 
that  the  Court  is  only  at  the  beginning  stage  of  the 
trials  and  can  therefore  understand  the  lengthy  nature 
of  the  proceedings,  but  it  continues  to  hope  that  the 
first  judgements  of  the  Court  will  be  handed  down 
before the end of 2011.  

My  delegation  would  also  like  to  take  this 
opportunity to recall its interest in seeing the proposal 
of  holding  trials  in  situ  translated  into  reality.  It 
believes  that  this  would  offer  the  long-hoped-for 
opportunity  to  provide  a  certain  moral  satisfaction  to 
the victims of the crimes in question as well as a means 
of deterring potential repeat offenders. 

The  progress  made  in  international  criminal 
justice  has  taken  place  in  the  context  of  strong  shows 
of hostility against the Court. My delegation therefore 
deems 
implement 
mechanisms  that  can  put  an  end  to  such  campaigns, 
which  risk  undermining  the  Court’s  reputation  and 
jeopardizing its success, even though more than half of 
the  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  had  joined 
the Court less than five years after its inception. 

However,  it  is  equally  important  that  the  Court 
consider  the  manner  in  which  it  functions  and  reflect 
on  its  working  methods  so  as  to  become  more 
professional  and  less  political,  given  that  politics  and 
justice do not necessarily go hand in hand. 
In closing, my delegation would like to welcome 

to  the  group  of  States  parties  Tunisia,  Maldives  and 
Cape  Verde,  which  recently  joined  the  ICC,  bringing 
the number of States parties to 119. 

The  Review  Conference  on  the  Rome  Statute  of 
the ICC, which took place in Kampala, Uganda, in May 
and  June  2010,  was  for  member  States  a  useful 
occasion  to  reaffirm  the  achievements  made  in  the 
context  of  the  Rome  Statute  and  to  strengthen  the 
conviction that the ICC is truly a gift of hope for future 
generations  and  a  significant  step  forward  towards 
respect  for  human  rights  and  the  rule  of  law.  The 
Kampala  Declaration,  in  which  States  reiterated  their 
intention 
its 
comprehensive  application  and  its  universal  character; 
the  results  achieved  by  the  international  criminal 
justice system; and the amendments made to the Rome 
Statute,  which  now  contains  a  definition  of  the  crime 
of aggression and specifies the conditions in which the 
Court can exercise its jurisdiction over such crimes, are 
achievements  that  we  must  safeguard  with  the  utmost 
care.  
the  Rome  Statute, 
to  promote 
11-56550 

23 
We  have 
taken  note  of 
the  report  of 
A/66/PV.44 


In  conclusion,  I  should  like  to  reiterate  my 
delegation’s wish to ensure the integrity of the ICC and 
to once again invite those delegations that have not yet 
done so to join the ICC mechanism, so that together we 
can contribute to the universality of the combat against 
impunity. 
Mr.  Tladi  (South Africa):  I  would  like  to  thank 

His Excellency Mr. Sang-Hyun Song, President of the 
International  Criminal  Court  (ICC),  and  his  team  of 
judges not only for the report, but also for their tireless 
effort in the promotion of international criminal justice, 
with  the  ultimate  objective  of  securing  a  peaceful 
world for all who live in it.  

I associate myself with the statement delivered by 
the Permanent Representative of Tanzania on behalf of 
the African States parties to the Rome Statute.  

the 
International  Criminal  Court  to  the  General Assembly 
contained  in  document  A/66/309.  We  welcome  new 
members  Grenada,  Cape Verde, Tunisia,  Moldova  and 
the Philippines to the family of the ICC.  

Much  has  happened  since  the  last  time  that 
President  Sang-Hyun  Song  reported  to  the  General 
Assembly (see A/65/PV.39).  

First,  post-election  violence  erupted  in  Côte 
d’Ivoire.  Subsequently,  Côte  d’Ivoire  submitted  a 
declaration 
declaration 
accepting  the  Court’s  jurisdiction,  in  accordance  with 
article  12,  paragraph  3,  of  the  Rome  Statute.  On 
3 October, 
the 
Prosecutor’s 
to  open 
investigations  proprio  motu  into  the  situation  in  Côte 
d’Ivoire.  
On 26 February, the Security Council referred the 

situation  in  Libya  to  the  Court  by  resolution  1970 
(2011).  Pursuant  to  that  resolution,  the  Prosecutor 
opened investigations in Libya. For its part, the Court 
has  already  issued  arrest  warrants  against  certain 
individuals in that particular situation. 

In relation to the situation in Kenya, summonses 
have  been  issued  against  six  suspects  in  two  separate 
cases. All six suspects voluntarily appeared before the 
Court on 7 and 8 April respectively.  

We have restated those facts, which are set out in 
the report, not to shed any insight on any of the cases, 
but  simply  to  show  the  magnitude  of  the  challenges 
the  Pre-Trial  Chamber  granted 
for  authorization 
confirming 
previous 
a 
request 

to 
to  arriving  at  an  agreement  on 
facing  the  Court.  As  a  firm  believer  in  judicial 
independence, we shall restrict our  observation on the 
judicial functions to a limited number of points. 

With respect to the situation in Libya, and indeed 
other  cases,  whether  past  or  future,  that  have  been  or 
may  be  referred  to  the  Court  by  the  Security  Council, 
South Africa  is  well  aware  of  the  financial  strain  that 
that places on the International Criminal Court. Given 
that  referral  to  the  Court  by  the  Council  is,  in 
accordance  with  Article  24  of  the  Charter,  read  with 
Article  39,  done  on  behalf  of  the  United  Nations  and 
all its Members, it is only fair that the financial burden 
of  that  task  be  borne  by  all  Members  of  the  United 
Nations,  not  only  States  parties 
the  Statute. 
Therefore,  we  hope  that  some  consideration  will  be 
given 
funding 
mechanisms  that  would  alleviate  the  budgetary  strain 
resulting from the referral of cases by the Council. 

The most recent cases under consideration by the 
Court,  whether  at  the  trial  or  the  investigation  stage, 
involve  situations  of  internal  conflict.  That  raises  yet 
another challenge, the need to maintain not only actual, 
but  also  perceptions  of,  impartiality.  At  different 
forums, including before the Security Council, we have 
called for balanced investigations by the Office of the 
Prosecutor  to  ensure  that  atrocities  committed  by  all 
sides in any conflict are investigated and, if necessary, 
prosecuted.  

Needless  to  say,  that  imperative  has  to  be 
balanced  with  financial  considerations,  and  also  with 
the  present  prosecutorial  policy  that  only  those  most 
responsible  should  be 
the  ICC.  If, 
however, the Court is seen as a victor’s Court, that will 
have  a  negative  impact  on  the  image,  credibility  and 
integrity  of  the  Court  as  an  independent  dispenser  of 
justice.  

We  are  pleased  to  see  from  the  report  that  the 
Court  will  soon  bring  to  a  close  its  first  case,  the 
Lubanga case.  

Further, as in the past, we have taken note of the 
situations under preliminary analysis by the Prosecutor. 
In our statement of last year, we called on the Office of 
the  Prosecutor  to  consider  those  issues  “with  the 
requisite  urgency”  and  come  to  a  decision  as  soon  as 
possible, particularly those that have been pending for 
a long period of time (see A/65/PV.41, p.20). 
tried  before 
24 

11-56550 
to 
exert 
to  believe 
South  Africa  continues 



that  an 
important  tool  in  the  fight  against  impunity  remains 
efforts  to  build  national  capacity  to  investigate  and 
prosecute  serious  crimes  that  are  of  concern  to  the 
international  community.  It  is  thus  appropriate  that 
complementarity  is  at  the  heart  of  the  Rome  Statute. 
For that reason, South Africa, together with Denmark, 
efforts 
continues 
to  mainstream 
complementarity-related activities. 

In  June  2012,  the  term  of  the  current  Prosecutor 
will  expire,  and  the  new  Prosecutor  will  have  to  take 
up  the  seat  of  the  chief  prosecutor.  We  wish  to  pay 
tribute  to  the  outgoing  Prosecutor,  Mr.  Luis  Moreno-
Ocampo, for the work that he has done in ushering the 
Court through its years of infancy. The next Prosecutor 
will  have  the  task  of  taking  the  Court  through  its 
teenage  years,  which,  as  we  all  know,  can  be  very 
testing.  The  next  Prosecutor  will  have  to  maintain 
balanced  and  independent  decision-making  in  a  very 
tough political climate. 
A/66/PV.44

The  search  committee  established  by  the  Bureau 
has  produced  a  short  list  of  four  candidates.  We  are 
hopeful  that,  under  the  guidance  of  its  President,  the 
Assembly of States Parties will in due course produce a 
consensual candidate. That task should be made much 
easier  by  the  fact  that  the  candidates  presented  by  the 
search committee are of the highest quality.  

As we end our statement, we wish to say a special 
word  of  gratitude  to  the  President  of  the Assembly  of 
States  Parties,  Ambassador  Wenaweser,  whose  term 
expires  in  December.  We  thank  him  for  his  tireless 
effort. In the same breath, we stand ready to welcome 
Ambassador  Intelmann  as  the  President-elect.  We  are 
happy  to  affirm  that  we  stand  ready  to  support  her  as 
she leads the Assembly of States Parties into the future.  

The International Criminal Court is an institution 
designed  to  create  a  better  world  through  fighting 
impunity.  We  will  continue  to  support  the  Court,  so 
that it can grow from strength to strength. 

  The meeting rose at 6 p.m. 
11-56550 

25 
