
A/66/PV.35
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

35th plenary meeting 
Monday, 17 October 2011, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 
by 
interfaith  and 
deal with the challenges of cultural diversity. Dialogue 
and  mutual  cooperation  among  faiths  and  cultures  are 
inherent to Indonesia’s history. We have had  centuries 
tolerance  and  promoting 
of  practice 
in  fostering 
cooperation  among  our 
immensely  varied  ethnic 
groups. 

We profoundly believe in the wisdom of dialogue 
and its efficacy as a cure for ignorance, prejudice and 
hatred. As a  result, we have been actively involved in 
dialogue,  particularly 
intercultural 
dialogue, at all levels. We have developed a strategy to 
empower  moderates 
involving 
actively 
interreligious civil society organizations. 

At  the  national  level,  Government  and  civil 
society organizations have been working together on a 
number  of 
for 
Harmony  among  Religious  Groups.  The  Forum  not 
only  conducts  dialogues  among  various  religious 
leaders  and  groups,  but  also  actively  promotes 
religious harmony through social education campaigns. 

At  the  international  level,  we  have  held  bilateral 
interfaith  dialogues  with  16  other  countries  and  the 
Holy  See.  We  also  launched  a  regional  interfaith 
dialogue  among  South-East  Asian  and  South-West 
Pacific  countries  in  2004,  as  well  as  the Asia-Europe 
Meeting  Interfaith  Dialogue  (ASEM)  in  2005.  Both 
Dialogues  have  become  annual  events,  and  in  that 
regard,  we  welcome  the  recent  conclusion  of  the 
seventh  Association  of  Southeast  Asian  Nations 
(ASEAN)  Interfaith  Dialogue,  held 
in 
Manila. 
the  Forum 
last  week 
initiatives, 
including 







In the absence of the President, Mr. Meetarbhan 
(Mauritius), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.  




Agenda item 15 (continued)
Culture of peace 
  Report of the Secretary-General (A/66/280) 

  Note by the Secretary-General (A/66/273) 

Mr. Khan (Indonesia): At the outset, allow me to 

thank 
the  Secretary-General,  on  behalf  of  my 
delegation, for the report on intercultural, interreligious 
and intercivilizational dialogue contained in document 
A/66/280.  Our  appreciation  also  goes  to  the  Director-
General  of  the  United  Nations  Educational,  Scientific 
and  Cultural  Organization  for  the  report  on  the 
implementation  of  the  Declaration  and  Programme  of 
Action on a Culture of Peace, as contained in document 
A/66/273. We take note of the recommendations. 

to 
welcome  the  fourth  annual  report  of  United  Nations 
High  Representative  for  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations 
(A/66/305).  It  is  encouraging  to  see  the  expansion  in 
the membership of the Group of Friends of the Alliance 
of Civilizations. That said, we welcome the convening 
of  the  Doha  Forum  in  December  and  stand  ready  to 
host one of the events in future. 

to 
promoting  mutual  respect  for  religious  and  cultural 
diversity.  We  have  keenly  supported  initiatives  that 

always  dedicated 
this  opportunity 
Indonesia  has 
We  would 
itself 
take 
like 
to 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-55082 (E) 
*1155082* 




respect 
A/66/PV.35 


Indonesia  is  of  the  view  that  the  media  plays  an 
instrumental  role  in  promoting  and  nurturing  the 
culture of dialogue and cooperation among ethnicities, 
cultures,  religions  and  civilizations.  The  mass  media 
have  the  power  to  excite  the  masses.  They  also  have 
the  capacity  to  educate  and  enlighten,  to  impart 
wisdom  to  public  opinion  and  to  mediate  public 
dialogue  that  leads  to  cooperation,  peace  and  mutual 
respect.  

In  a  democracy,  freedom  of  the  press  ensures  a 
dynamic  free  market  of  ideas  in  which  prejudice  and 
bigotry cannot rule. Understanding the strategic role of 
the media, Indonesia worked together with Norway to 
facilitate  the  Global  Inter-Media  Dialogue  from  2006 
to  2008. The  three-year  forum  produced  a  network  of 
journalists  from  different  parts  of  the  world  who  are 
committed  to  continuing  to  contribute  to  democratic 
the  core  values  and  ethics  of 
life,  emphasizing 
journalism  built  upon 
truth, 
independence and professional social responsibility. 
All  of  those  existing  initiatives  on  interfaith, 

intercultural  and 
intercivilizational  dialogue  have 
become  part  of  a  global  network  aimed  at  promoting 
peace and harmony. But they would not suffice if they 
were to remain only within conference halls. We must 
recognize that dialogue is not an end in itself. Dialogue 
will  amount 
to 
cooperation at the grass-roots level.  

Finally,  Indonesia  would  like  to  reiterate  its 
commitment  to  supporting  and  closely  working  with 
international  communities  to  promote  interconnected 
dialogue  initiatives,  with  a  view  to  fostering  a  culture 
of peace, development and respect for human rights. 
Mr. de Séllos (Brazil): Brazil wants to commend 

the  continuous  efforts  of  the  Secretary-General  to 
promote  intercultural  and  interreligious  dialogue.  In 
that  regard,  Brazil  welcomes  with  great  satisfaction 
both  documents  (A/66/280,  A/66/273)  presented  for 
our  analysis  today  under  agenda  item  15,  “Culture  of 
Peace”. 

As a multi-ethnic, multireligious nation, Brazil is 
strongly  committed  to  the  principles  that  inspire  and 
guide  the Alliance  of  Civilizations  initiative.  It  was  a 
great honour for my country to host in Rio de Janeiro, 
in  May  2010,  the  third  Forum  of  the  Alliance  of 
Civilizations. 
In  a  celebration  of  diversity  and 
inclusiveness,  we  were  honoured  to  host  109  official 
delegations and more than 7,000 participants, including 
it  does  not 
to  nothing 
if 
for 
the 
lead 
representatives of civil society, religious communities, 
political  parties,  academia,  journalists,  the  private 
sector,  youth  movements  as  well  as  human  rights 
defenders. 

Despite many relevant efforts, we are confronted 
today  with  an  increasing  danger  of  division.  We  note 
with  concern  and  deep  regret  that  violent  attacks 
against  religious  and  ethnic  minorities  continue  to 
the  world.  Fighting 
occur  in  various  regions  of 
xenophobia,  extremism  and  racial  hatred 
through 
education aimed at dialogue and tolerance must remain 
a  major  priority  of  the  international  community.  As 
President  Dilma  Rousseff  stressed 
in  her  recent 
message to the Assembly,  

“Since  late  2010,  we  have  witnessed  a  series  of 
grass-roots  demonstrations  that  have  come  to  be 
known  as  the Arab  Spring.  Brazil  is  the  adopted 
homeland  of  many  immigrants  from  that  part  of 
the world. Brazilians sympathize with the pursuit 
of an ideal that belongs to no culture in particular, 
because  it  is  by  definition  universal:  freedom.” 
(A/66/PV.11, p. 8) 
the  Alliance  of 
Brazil 
strongly 

Civilizations 
it  a  highly 
initiative  and  considers 
effective tool of soft power for conflict prevention and 
the  promotion  of  peace  and  understanding.  The  Doha 
Forum  to  be  held  in  December  represents  a  major 
challenge  to  the  political  construction  of  the Alliance. 
Accordingly, the ministerial meeting to be held during 
the Forum is highly anticipated. 
Finally, inspired by the youthful and joyful spirit 

of  the  Rio  Forum  Declaration,  Brazil  wishes  to  thank 
Qatar for the invitation to the Doha Forum and to join 
efforts with all Member States in our common task of 
achieving significant results at that event. 
Mr.  Jabessa  (Ethiopia):  Each  year,  the  General 

Assembly  considers  this  agenda  item  because  of  its 
importance  to  the  international  community,  and  my 
delegation is always pleased to take part in this plenary 
annual debate on the Alliance of Civilizations. 

I  would  like  to  express  my  appreciation  to  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  report  (A/66/280)  on  the 
agenda  item  under  consideration.  My  delegation  is  of 
the view that the report will enable us to be cognizant 
and appreciative of the activities of the United Nations 
and its affiliated entities with regard to dialogue among 
civilizations, cultures and religions. 
supports 
2 

11-55082 
through  combined  efforts, 


It  is  to  be  recalled  that  the  United  Nations 

Millennium  Declaration 
(resolution  55/2)  clearly 
indicates  that  tolerance  is  one  of  the  fundamental 
values essential to international relations in the twenty-
first  century  and  that  it  should  include  the  active 
promotion  of  a  culture  of  peace  and  dialogue  among 
civilizations. 

The conduct of a dialogue among civilizations is 
an  extremely  valuable  and  timely  issue  that  is  needed 
to  address, 
the  major 
challenges  of  religious 
intolerance  and  extremist 
tendencies that the world is currently facing. The major 
challenges  and  opportunities  that  the  nations  of  the 
world  are  presented  with  today  include  the  increasing 
diversity  of  our  cultures,  beliefs  and  values.  Today’s 
reality  is  that  if  we  succeed  in  using  our  diversity  to 
promote understanding and tolerance, that will become 
a  source  of  great  opportunities  and  strength  for  our 
multicultural,  multi-ethnic  and  multilingual  world.  If 
we  fail  to  use  our  diversity  to  work  for  the  common 
good  of  our  peoples,  it  will  undoubtedly  become  a 
source of great weakness and challenges. 

Recognizing dialogue as a powerful instrument to 
find  a  global  solution  to  the  problems  of  our  world, 
which is often characterized by intolerance and cultural 
and  religious  divisions,  it  is  indeed  gratifying  to  note 
that  the Alliance’s  last  three  consecutive  forums  have 
been  useful  and  effective  in  addressing  these  key 
global challenges. In fact, the forums turned out to be 
exceptionally  useful  for  the  conduct  of  interactive 
dialogues among diverse faiths and beliefs and for the 
establishment  of  a  global  partnership  aimed  at 
undertaking collective efforts to tackle the problems of 
diversity  and  maximize  its  benefits  so  as  to  further 
promote an understanding of one another’s cultural and 
religious differences.  

We  believe  that  the Alliance  plays  a  central  role 
in enabling States to conduct harmonious cross-cultural 
dialogues.  In  that  regard,  we  expect  that  the  fourth 
annual  Forum  of  the  United  Nations  Alliance  of 
Civilizations,  which  will  take  place  in  Doha  this 
December,  will  make  positive  contributions 
to 
intercultural dialogue among nations. 

Dialogue  among  different  faiths  and  cultures 
aimed  at  maintaining  global  peace  and  international 
security, and for peaceful coexistence and international 
social  cohesion between and among nations, is indeed 
critical.  This  is  particularly  true  at  a  time  when 
A/66/PV.35
at 
the 
regional 
engage  Governments, 
civic  groups 
national, 
extremists  are  more  than  ever  determined  to  exploit 
cultural and religious divisions to sow seeds of discord 
among  nations.  These  extremist  forces  must  not  be 
allowed  to  use  xenophobic  intolerance  to  promote 
hatred  and  harmful  attitudes  among  our  societies.  We 
must 
and 
organizations to prevent the dissemination of their evil 
ideas and defeat them through joint concerted actions. 

Raising  awareness  about  the  danger  that  their 
ideas  pose  to  our  diverse  cultural  heritages  and 
civilizations is one of best ways to ensure that they will 
not  succeed  in  their  efforts  to  foster  clashes  among 
nations. This can be done through the involvement of a 
wide  range  of  stakeholders,  States,  civil  society  and 
organizations 
and 
internationals  levels,  such  as  faith-based  institutions 
and  media.  For  this  purpose,  the  Alliance  could  do 
more  facilitation  work  by  adopting  a  proactive  policy 
aimed at bringing about attitudinal changes through the 
conduct  of  workshops,  seminars  and  other  forums  for 
interactive dialogues. 

Today’s Ethiopia reflects the diverse nature of its 
peoples  and  nationalities,  with  their  distinct  cultures, 
religions, linguistic and ethnic characteristics. Ethiopia 
is  also  an  ancient  land  with  its  own,  centuries-old 
unique  civilizations,  traditions  and  customs.  It  is 
indeed  a  mosaic  society  in  which  peoples  of  different 
cultural, 
live 
peacefully  with  a  strong  sense  of  affinity  with  one 
another and in unity. This has been a trademark of our 
country for centuries. Our long history of tolerance and 
harmonious  coexistence 
reflection  of  our 
uniqueness as a society of diverse faiths and cultures. 

Aware of this reality, the Government of Ethiopia 
has  taken  various  measures  to  further  enhance  our 
diversity  in  unity  and  has  encouraged  a  culture  of 
tolerance and peaceful  coexistence in our society. The 
adoption  of  a  federal  Constitution  that  enshrines  and 
guarantees  the  basic  human  rights  and  the  freedom  of 
Ethiopians  to  pursue  any  religion  or  belief  of  their 
choice  without  restrictions  is  the  most  important  and 
fundamental step taken in this regard. The fact that our 
Constitution  clearly  stipulates  that  the  Ethiopian  State 
is a secular one and that Ethiopians are free to practice 
any  religion  of  their  preference,  and  that  our  penal 
code  does  not  allow  any  behaviour  or  act  harmful  to 
religious liberty, underscores the strong commitment of 
our Government to further enhancing and nurturing the 
values of diversity. 
religious  and  ethnic  backgrounds 
is  a 
11-55082 

3 
It 
is 
in 
line  with 
extremists 
from  using 
these  provisions  of 
A/66/PV.35 


the 
Constitution  and  the  policy  that  Ethiopia  is  pursuing 
that  the  Government  is  encouraging  the  strengthening 
of  cultural  tolerance  and  peaceful  coexistence  in 
society  through  various  means,  including  teachings  in 
schools and the media at the local and national levels. 
Moreover, the Government has created an environment 
for religious institutions, civic groups and the people at 
large  that  is  conducive  to  conducting  interactive 
dialogues,  on  a  sustainable  basis,  to  further  promote 
tolerance  and  address  challenges  related  to  religious 
and  cultural  misunderstandings.  This  is  indeed  a 
fundamental departure from past ways of thinking and 
practices in our country. 

Ethiopia has contributed actively to the efforts of 
the  Alliance  to  promote  interfaith  and  intercultural 
dialogue,  as  we  believe  that  it  is  necessary  to  prevent 
terrorists 
religious 
intolerance  and  cultural  differences  to  achieve  their 
evil  objectives. We  therefore  remain  committed  to  the 
Alliance, which offers us the best forum of a universal 
character  that  brings  together  all  nations  to  make  a 
meaningful impact on the ground. 

In  conclusion,  let  me  assure  the  Assembly  of 
Ethiopia’s  strong  commitment  to  work  together  to 
ensure the continued successful work of the Alliance. 
Mr.  Meek  (United  States  of  America):  The 

United States is grateful for the opportunity to speak on 
this important agenda item dealing with the culture of 
peace.  The  United  States  supports  efforts  around  the 
world  that  create  a  forum  for  people  with  different 
views to express themselves through dialogue. That is 
why  we  support  initiatives  like  last  year’s  resolution 
65/5,  on  World  Interfaith  Harmony  Week,  introduced 
by Jordan.  
It is also why we joined the consensus in March 

important 
at 
resolution 
intolerance, 
negative  stereotyping  and  the  stigmatization  of,  and 
discrimination,  incitement  to  violence,  and  violence 
religion  or  belief 
against,  persons  based  on 
(A/HRC/RES/16/18).  That 
signals  an 
important turning point in the effort to address the use 
of collaboration to deal with the problem and we look 
forward 
to  continuing  our  engagement  with  all 
countries on that issue. 
The  United  States  believes  that  peace  can  be 

achieved  when  people  come  together  to  understand, 
the  Human  Rights  Council  on 
that  addressed  combating 
its 
resolution 
and 

that 
to  work  with 
religions  and  cultures  are  critical 
intolerance  and 
accept  one  another  and  shun  the  violence  and  hatred 
born  of  intolerance.  Fostering  mutual  understanding 
and  an  inclusive  social  environment,  in  which  the 
rights  of  all  individuals,  irrespective  of  religion  or 
cultural  background,  are  protected,  provides 
the 
cornerstone  for  trust  and  lasting  peace.  The  United 
States  confirms  unequivocally 
freedom  of 
expression  and  open  dialogue  among  members  of 
different 
to 
combating 
to  promoting  peaceful 
coexistence.  

We  hope  that  all  Member  States  and  relevant 
stakeholders  throughout  the  world  will  contribute  to 
strengthening  the  foundation  of  tolerance  and  respect 
for diversity and enhance the promotion and protection 
of human rights and fundamental freedoms around the 
world. 
Mr.  Cabactulan  (Philippines):  I  would  like  to 

take 
to  express  my  delegation’s 
this  opportunity 
willingness  and  commitment 
the 
Assembly  and  its  President  to  advance  the  good  work 
of the Organization on the most important matter of a 
culture of peace. 

We  all  desire  a  world  of  peace  and  cooperation. 
Out of the horrors of two World Wars, we resolved to 
work closely together to rid the world of the threats of 
violence  and  destruction  and  to  further  strengthen  the 
foundations of a just and equitable international order. 
Yet  despite  the  advancements  that  we  have  made,  we 
continue  to  face  tremendous  challenges.  Despite  our 
efforts  to  bring  nations  and  peoples  closer  together  in 
greater  understanding,  mutual  respect  and  tolerance, 
dark elements continue to threaten to pull apart nations 
and  individuals,  feeding  on  rancour  and  resentment, 
inflicting  pain  and  suffering  and  forcing  violence  and 
fear upon our world. 

We  must  continue  to  be  vigilant  against  those 
who  seek  to  rend  us  apart.  For  10  years,  since  9/11, 
even  as  our  memories  continue  to  be  haunted  by  the 
horrors of that act — which made victims of us all — 
we realize that those dark elements continue to linger. 
The  hatred  continues  to  fester.  Its  insidious  form 
continues to mutate. 

It  is  regrettable  that  our  people  have  to  endure 
violence  in  its  many  malevolent  forms.  Peoples  are 
broken  further  apart  by  those  who  seek  to  sow 
confusion, doubt and suspicion and by those who prey 
on  the  disenfranchised  and  the  marginalized  and 
4 

11-55082 
and 
their 
in  all 
intercivilizational 
joins  other  nations 
the  Secretary-General  on 


surreptitiously use the faith of others, their culture and 
their  religion,  to  push  for  and  justify  their  own  dark 
agenda.  The  Philippines 
in 
forms  and 
condemning  such  acts 
manifestations.  The  Philippines  likewise  asserts  that 
such acts should not be associated in any way with any 
culture, faith or religion. 

For the Philippines —  and indeed for the rest of 
the  world  —  faith,  culture  and  religion  rightly  give 
millions of people hope in this world, the will to treat 
others as they treat themselves and the impetus to work 
with  others  towards  a  more  inclusive  and  more 
understanding  world.  It  is  that  abiding  belief  that  has 
moved us to try to help harness the world community’s 
collective strength to further strengthen the foundations 
of a world respectful of humankind’s diversity. 
In  that  regard,  the  Philippines  welcomes  the 

intercultural, 
report  of 
interreligious 
dialogue 
(A/66/280)  and  the  note  by  the  Secretary-General 
transmitting the UNESCO report on the implementation of 
the Declaration and Programme of Action on a Culture 
of  Peace  (A/66/273).  The  report  discusses,  in  a 
comprehensive  and  detailed  manner,  the  efforts  made 
to  push  the  peace  agenda  into  the  place  where  it 
matters  most:  in  the  hearts  and  minds  of  people.  The 
report likewise outlines the challenges we must address 
as  we  seek  to  build  on  the  good  work  already  being 
done. 

The Philippines notes that the report underscores 
the  cross-cutting  nature  of  the  work  being  done  to 
foster  a  culture  of  peace  and  emphasizes  the  growing 
involvement of an ever-widening group of stakeholders 
among Member States and those within and outside the 
United  Nations 
society 
organizations, to accomplish our shared objectives. 

The  proclamation  of  2010  as  the  International 
Year  for  the  Rapprochement  of  Cultures  serves  to 
underscore  the  need  to  sustain  our  efforts  in  fostering 
dialogue. Included are our efforts, among other things, 
to provide greater opportunities for research, meetings, 
public  debates  and  the  like,  promote  the  role  of 
creativity  and  innovation  in  sending  an  effective 
message  for  intercultural  and  interreligious  dialogue 
across  many  platforms,  improve  access  to  formal  and 
non-formal  education  with  emphasis  on  quality 
education for all and acknowledge the contributions of 
the media and of new information and communications 
including  civil 
system, 
A/66/PV.35
65/138, 
resolution 
the  full  realization  of 
to  changing  perceptions  of  different 
technology 
cultures and religions. 

The  International  Year  of  Rapprochement  of 
Cultures  also  made  possible  partnerships  in  about 
1,000  projects  that  succeeded  in  achieving  the  key 
global  objectives  of  the  Year.  That  success  highlights 
the importance of partnerships and the need to replicate 
our  efforts  at  the  grassroots  level,  where  they  matter 
most.  The  Philippines  welcomes  the  conclusion  that 
emerges from these activities:  

“[I]n  the  new  international  landscape,  greater 
account  must  be  taken  of  the  linkages  among 
cultural diversity, dialogue, development, security 
and peace.” (A/66/273, annex, para. 42) 
That  was  one  of  the  main  elements  in  the 

Philippines-sponsored 
on 
interreligious  and  intercultural  dialogue,  last  year, 
which called  for Member States to use, as appropriate 
and  where  applicable,  interreligious  and  intercultural 
dialogue  as  an  important  tool  in  efforts  aimed  at 
achieving  peace  and 
the 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  We  stand  ready  to 
work with other stakeholders to give life to, and further 
build on, that resolution.  

We thank Pakistan, the principal sponsor, as well 
as  the  core  group  of  sponsors  and  the  nearly  50  other 
sponsors for their sustained partnership. Looking back 
on the years of work that have gone into that resolution 
and  previous 
interreligious  and 
intercultural dialogue, we can see how Member States 
with diverse cultures, beliefs, religions and faiths have 
been  able  to  transcend  differences  to  work  on  the 
common objective of fostering a culture of peace. This 
is  a  living  lesson  in  dialogue  that  the  Organization 
should  rightly  be  proud  of,  a  living  lesson  that  the 
Philippines  and  other  partners  are  striving  to  replicate 
in our respective countries and regions.  

The  Philippines  supports  the  findings  in  the 
Secretary-General’s report, which states that the urgent 
need  for  linkages  at  the  global,  regional  and  local 
levels  to  promote  such  vital  but  fragile  dialogue  must 
be  stressed.  Even  before  this  finding  was  laid  out  in 
this report, the Philippines had already been working at 
the 
to  broaden 
religious  and  intercultural  dialogue,  most  recently  in 
the  Special  Non-Aligned  Movement  Ministerial 
Meeting  on  Interfaith  Dialogue  and  Cooperation  for 
Peace and Development, held in Manila in 2010 — the 
international  and  regional 
resolutions  on 
levels 
11-55082 

5 
to 
respect 
tolerance  and 
that  are  committed 
intergovernmental  gathering  convened 
A/66/PV.35 

largest 
discuss ways to promote interfaith dialogue.  

As I speak, the Philippines is continuing to do its 
part  in  encouraging  this  dialogue.  This  month  the 
Philippines  co-hosted,  along  with  Finland  and  the 
European Union, the seventh Interfaith Dialogue of the 
Europe-Asia  Meeting  (ASEM)  in  Manila  with  the 
theme  “Harnessing  the  benefits  and  addressing  the 
challenges  of  migration  to  interfaith  and  intercultural 
dialogue”. 
As contained in its Manila Statement, the seventh 

ASEM  Interfaith  Dialogue  discussed  ways  to  promote 
mutual  understanding, 
for 
diversity  of  cultures  and  for  freedom  of  religion  and 
beliefs in the context of increased mobility and people-
to-people  interaction.  Those  and  other  activities  are 
positive contributions related to the recommendation in 
the  report  of 
the  Director-General  of  UNESCO 
encouraging  Member  States  to  create  links  among 
organizations that are active in promoting intercultural 
dialogue  and 
fostering 
sustainable development and peace in order to create a 
new dynamic for living peacefully together. 

The  Philippines  also  appreciates  the  continuing 
work  of  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations  in  promoting 
interfaith  dialogue.  The  meeting  in  Doha  will  be  an 
important  opportunity  to  take  stock  of  current  efforts 
and to learn from the experiences of the participants. 

In  this  regard  too,  the  Philippines  welcomes  the 
development  by  UNESCO  of  an  intersectoral  and 
interdisciplinary Programme of Action for a Culture of 
Peace  and  Non-Violence,  which  the  organization  is 
expected  to  adopt  at  the  thirty-sixth  session  of  its 
General Conference this year. 

The Philippines notes the activities undertaken by 
the  United  Nations  system  to  promote  intercultural 
dialogue.  UNESCO 
the  United  Nations 
Secretariat’s  Department  of  Economic  and  Social 
Affairs 
in  particular  have  been  working  with 
stakeholders 
the  Philippines  on  providing 
opportunities to draw in civil society members such as 
religious non-governmental organizations to foster and 
develop ideas on how to move the agenda of a culture 
of peace further forward. 

The Philippines would also like to underscore the 
important  role  the  Secretariat’s  Department  of  Public 
Information  can  play  in  effectively  and  efficiently 
like 
and 
to 

of 
the 
through 
information 
sending a message of peace and dialogue by reaching a 
broader  sector  across  many  platforms  and  at  many 
points 
use 
and 
communications technology. 

The  Philippines  likewise  welcomes  the  rights-
based  approach  to  the  dialogue  among  cultures  and 
civilizations. Indeed, only within the context of human 
rights  and  a  legal  framework  can  we  hope  to  further 
strengthen  our  efforts  for  greater  understanding  and 
mutual respect. 
Before  concluding,  allow  me  once  again  to 

reaffirm  the  commitment  of  the  Philippines  to  work 
with  the  President  and  other  stakeholders  to  further 
advance the work we have done so far. Indeed, the road 
ahead and the journey forward remain long. However, 
we  are  confident  that  we  will  reach  our  destination. 
Fully  resolved  to  turn  our  vision  into  reality,  we  will 
forge  ahead  undeterred,  learning  from  each  other, 
understanding  from  one  another  and  respecting  the 
other as we respect ourselves. 
Mr.  Apakan  (Turkey):  Turkey  welcomes  the 

report of the Secretary-General on the culture of peace 
(A/66/280). I would like to extend our sincere gratitude 
to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  personal 
engagement in this very important matter. 

As a sponsor of the Alliance of Civilizations, we 
are  particularly  pleased  to  observe  an  increasing 
number of educational and awareness-raising activities 
to  promote  intercultural  and  interreligious  dialogue. 
We believe that cultural diversity is an integral part of 
the common heritage of humanity and an asset for the 
advancement  of  humankind.  We  should 
therefore 
accept  differences,  fight  ignorance  and  prejudice, 
identify  commonalities,  respect  others  and  encourage 
dialogue at every level. 
To that end, we have been actively engaged in the 

activities  carried  out 
the 
International Year  for  the  Rapprochement  of  Cultures. 
These activities aim at improving global understanding 
by using various tools such as social media, education, 
research  and  new  technologies.  In  this  context,  we 
want  to  recognize  the 
important  role  played  by 
UNESCO  in  the  celebration  of  this  Year  and  in  the 
promotion of intercultural and interreligious dialogue. 

We  believe  that  the  Alliance  of  Civilizations 
initiative,  which  we  launched  together  with  Spain,  is 
now  a  truly  global  peace  initiative  aimed  at  breaking 
framework  of 
the 
in 
6 

11-55082 


down  walls  of  misperception,  connecting  people  and 
building bridges towards peaceful cohabitation. We are 
pleased to see that a growing number of Member States 
embrace and act upon the ideals of the Alliance. Such 
wide  recognition  and  support  make  us  all  the  more 
hopeful  for  the  future,  as  only  the  commitment  of 
Member  States  to  the  ideals  of  cultural  diversity  can 
carry the Alliance of Civilizations agenda forward. 

The fourth Forum of the Alliance, which will take 
place  in  Doha  from  11  to  13  December,  will  be  an 
important  opportunity  to  reinforce  commitments  for 
action  and  to  develop  new  strategies  for  an  inclusive 
and  open  intercultural  dialogue. We  welcome  Sheikha 
Mozah’s  suggestion  to  create  synergies  between  the 
objectives  of  the Alliance  and  the  advancement  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals. Let us not forget that 
eventually human development, security and peace are 
indivisible  and  are  vital  for  our  progress.  We  are 
therefore  looking  forward  to  actively  contributing  to 
the Doha Forum. 

Finally, let me express our sincere belief that our 
continued efforts in this direction will produce a more 
tolerant and peaceful world for future generations. 
Mr.  Butt  (Pakistan):  While  the  world  continues 

to  witness  violence  and  confrontation  caused  by 
longstanding  political  and  territorial  disputes,  and  the 
suffering  they  produce,  new  obstacles  to  peace  have 
emerged in the shape of divisive policies or ideologies 
and  resort  to  violent  means,  including  terrorism. 
Economic  suffering  caused  by  the  continuing  global 
financial  crisis  has  further  shrunk  the  space  for 
accommodation and understanding among peoples.  

In  the  face  of  such  discord  and  division,  today’s 
agenda  item  is  a  reminder  of  the  importance  of 
maintaining  a  culture  of  peace,  which  was 
the 
motivation  behind  the  establishment  of  this  very 
Organization,  the  United  Nations.  The  Charter  of  the 
United Nations enunciated the principles of practicing 
tolerance and living together in peace with one another 
as  good  neighbours,  uniting  our  strength  to  maintain 
international  peace  and  security,  and  promoting  social 
progress and better standards of life in larger freedom. 

All religions and cultures share a common set of 
universal values: peace, tolerance and equality. Sharing 
and  respect  for  humanity  is  the  core  message  of  all 
religions.  Religion  and  culture  must  therefore  not  be 
allowed  to  become  a  source  of  division.  We  must 
cherish  the  unity  and  indivisibility  of  the  human  race 
A/66/PV.35
and  all  humankind,  no  matter  what  religion  or 
particular culture we belong to. 

Unfortunately, though, there remain those in this 
world who thrive on chaos; they seek to draw power by 
pitting  thought  against  thought,  fate  against  fate,  and 
people  against  people.  Hate  speech  against  religions 
are  rampant.  This  only  incites  violence.  Pakistan 
rejects such divisive policies, trends and practices and 
has joined with all efforts and forums aimed at uniting 
us as one human race, sharing a common set of values 
that  promote  the  universal  application  of  all  human 
rights for all, in a non-discriminatory and non-selective 
manner. 

The world must stand together to decry those who 
would  use  religion  to  advance  a  rigid  and  extremist 
political  agenda.  We  must  use  religion  as  a  bridge, 
bringing  nations  together,  not  as  a  wall  keeping  them 
apart. It is therefore critical that we undertake the task 
of  building  on  faith  as  a  means  of  finding  common 
ground  between  different  nations  and  civilizations.  It 
was this very principle that motivated Pakistan and the 
Philippines to jointly sponsor the original resolution on 
the  promotion  of 
intercultural 
dialogue,  understanding  and  cooperation  for  peace 
(resolution 58/128). As in the past, the draft resolution 
will be presented again this year, and we are confident 
that,  as  at  previous  sessions,  it  will  be  endorsed 
unanimously  by  the  General  Assembly.  This  draft 
resolution 
promoting 
interreligious  dialogue  starting  with  the  grassroots 
level, in order to address the unfounded misperceptions 
that result in divisiveness, intolerance and violence. 

We are happy to note that this was also one of the 
important  conclusions  that  emerged  from  the  range  of 
activities  organized  during  the  International  Year  for 
the Rapprochement of Cultures. In an effort to promote 
this  noble  cause,  Pakistan, 
the 
Philippines,  also  sponsored  the  seventh  Asia-Europe 
Meeting  Interfaith  Dialogue  in  Manila  this  month, 
which again helped to highlight the ongoing challenges 
and  the  need  to  address  them  through  enhanced 
interfaith and intercultural dialogue. We also welcome 
the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  subject 
(A/66/280),  which 
the 
important  and  cross-cutting  nature  of  the  work  aimed 
at fostering a culture of peace, and the efforts made in 
that regard by a wide range of stakeholders, including 
civil society. 
appropriately  highlights 
interreligious  and 
together  with 
stresses 
the 
need 
for 
11-55082 

7 
is 
to 
replace 
A/66/PV.35 


Pakistan fully recognizes the need for promoting 
religious  and  cultural  harmony,  and  has  taken  several 
important steps to enhance initiatives to that end. There 
are  interfaith  committees  at  the  national  and  district 
levels  with  representatives  of  all  religions,  in  order  to 
promote  greater  understanding,  peace  and  harmony 
among  followers  of  different  religions.  We  have  also 
created 
the  Shaheed  Benazir  Bhutto  Foundation 
expressly 
to  promote  and  encourage  dialogue, 
inclusion and exchange within our society. 

Promoting  a  culture  of  peace  and  avoiding 
conflict  is  not  an  easy  task.  It  can  only  be  achieved 
through  understanding,  sharing,  sacrifice  and  dialogue 
among  the  parties  concerned.  The  challenge  we  face 
every  day 
fear  with  acceptance, 
harassment with tolerance and hatred with respect and 
understanding.  Cooperation,  and  not  the  clash  of 
civilizations,  must  be  the  paradigm  of  our  collective 
efforts.  To  make  the  world  a  better  place  for  our 
children,  we  all  share  the  responsibility  to  highlight 
and propagate our common values of peace, tolerance, 
equality, sharing and respect for humankind. We should 
encourage  the  next  generation,  those  who  will  lead 
after  us,  not  only  to  use  education  and  exchange  to 
adapt  to  modernity,  but  also  to  use  modernity  and 
technology to change the world into a better and more 
peaceful place for all. 
in 

French): Concerning agenda item 15, entitled “Culture 
of  peace”,  the  Secretary-General’s  report  (A/66/280) 
and  note  (A/66/273),  which  have  been  submitted  for 
our  consideration,  praise  dialogue  between  cultures, 
religions  and  civilizations.  They  provide  an  overview 
of the measures carried out within the framework of a 
programme  of  action  for  a  culture  of  peace,  namely, 
through  education,  sustainable  economic  and  social 
development, respect for human rights, participation in 
democracy, 
and 
international peace and security. 
In  the  light  of  the  criteria  and  recommendations 

contained  in  the  report  and  the  note,  my  delegation 
would  like  to  add  to  this  debate  by  sharing  the 
experience  of  my  own  country,  Cameroon.  A  country 
that has been called “Africa in miniature”, owing to its 
geopolitical, geographic, human, religious and cultural 
diversity,  Cameroon  has  always  proclaimed  and 
demonstrated its commitment to peace, both within and 
beyond its borders. 
Mr.  Tommo  Monthe  (Cameroon)  (spoke 
understanding 
tolerance, 

ringing 
former,  delivered 

First,  on  peace  within  our  borders:  Cameroon’s 
motto is “Peace, work, country”. As is clear, the word 
“peace”  is  one  of  the  elements  of  the  trio;  that  is,  the 
role,  the  importance  and  commitment  to  peace  that 
have  sustained  our  people  and  its  leaders  from  the 
foundation  of  our  State.  It  is  this  mystique  of  peace 
that  since  then  has  left  an  indelible  mark  on  our 
national makeup in all its forms. 

From a political standpoint, that mystique can be 
seen  in  our  patient  promotion  and  consolidation  of  an 
open  political  pluralism,  with  many  political  parties 
that  cover  the  full  ideological  spectrum  of  modern 
political life. The party in power works unceasingly for 
peace,  unity  and  development.  The  presidential 
election  held  on  9  October  was  another  illustration  of 
this,  taking  place  in  a  peaceful  atmosphere  that  was 
commended  by  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  the 
next  day  in  a  press  statement  conveyed  by  his 
Spokesperson. The same can be said of other observers 
present at the election. 

Their Holinesses Popes John Paul II and Benedict 
XVI, who both visited our country, twice in the case of 
the 
to  our 
Government  for  the  efforts  to  build  peace  in  our 
country. In general, from the political standpoint, those 
who  know  Cameroon  well  will  notice  that  peace, 
tolerance and respect for diversity can be seen through 
the  various 
individuals  who  head  our  principal 
constitutional  and  public  bodies,  a  set  of  attitudes 
designed  to  preserve  and  promote  peace  among  the 
various elements that make up our nation. 

With regard to languages, the equality of the two 
official languages, French and English, as well as that 
of  all  the  national  languages,  is  guaranteed  by  the 
Constitution. It can be seen on a daily basis through an 
equal  use  of  the  two  official  languages  in  official 
records  of  the  Republic,  in  the  State  media  and  in 
education.  

In  terms  of  economic  development  and  land 
management,  the  State  has  been  striving  to  invest  in 
infrastructure  in  the  different  regions  of  our  national 
territory  according  to  their  potential,  which  is  quite 
varied because of a very diverse geography, which goes 
from the Atlantic coast through the equatorial forest to 
the Sahel.  

Freedom  of  worship  and  religion  is  a  right 
guaranteed by the Constitution. Cameroon is a country 
where  we  find  side  by  side,  in  tolerance  and  mutual 
tributes 
and 
8 

11-55082 
That  is  what  I  can  say  about  our  commitment  to 


understanding,  monotheistic  religions  such  as  Islam 
and  Christianity,  atheistic  spirituality  and,  of  course, 
African  religions,  which  form  our  shared  spiritual 
foundation.  

peace in respect for diversity within our borders.  
Now,  let  us  look  outside  our  borders.  Two 

primary  principles,  among  several,  guide  Cameroon’s 
foreign  policy,  and  this  is  in  accordance  with  the 
Constitution  and  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations. 
The  first  principle  is  that  of  a  policy  of  good-
neighbourliness  and  peaceful  coexistence.  The  second 
is that of peaceful settlement of disputes. 

With  respect  to  the  first  principle,  Cameroon 
shares  its  borders  with  Nigeria,  Chad,  the  Central 
African  Republic,  the  Congo,  Gabon  and  Equatorial 
Guinea.  Cameroon  has  excellent  neighbourly  relations 
with all of these countries. In case of a dispute, as was 
the  situation  at  one  point  with  Nigeria  concerning  the 
Bakassi  peninsula,  our  country  prefers  peaceful 
settlement and mediation — the peaceful settlement by 
jurisdictional means, in this case the acceptance of the 
optional  clause  of  the  mandatory  jurisdiction  of  the 
International  Court  of  Justice.  That  led  to  the  Court’s 
decision  in  October  2002  and  to  mediation  by  the 
Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations  and  friendly 
countries for the implementation of the decision. 

That  is  how  my  country  is  striving  to  preserve 
domestic and foreign peace within a political, cultural, 
linguistically  and  religiously  diverse  context.  My 
delegation  is  pleased  that  this  option,  chosen  by  the 
senior  officials 
the  same 
wavelength  as  the  principles,  values,  objectives  and 
actions  of  the  United  Nations,  and  in  this  particular 
case  with  the  conclusions  of  the  reports  of  the 
the  Director-General  of 
Secretary-General 
UNESCO,  which  have  been  submitted 
for  our 
consideration today. 

observer of the Holy See.  

the 
General  Assembly  once  again  takes  up  this  agenda 
item, my delegation draws attention to the critical role 
that  the  United  Nations  plays  in  the  promotion  and 
strengthening  of  a  culture  of  peace  throughout  the 
world.  
The Acting President: I now give the floor to the 
Archbishop  Chullikatt  (Holy  See):  As 
in  my  country, 
is  on 
and 
A/66/PV.35
liberty 
is 
the 
are 
As 
regard 
to  ethnic, 
religious  and 
fundamental  path 

the  Declaration  on  a  Culture  of  Peace 
(resolution  53/243)  affirmed,  such  a  culture  must  be 
based  on  respect  for  life,  ending  of  violence  and  the 
promotion  and  practice  of  non-violence 
through 
education,  dialogue  and  cooperation.  The 
fuller 
development  of  a  culture  of  peace  is  integrally  linked 
to  advancing  understanding,  tolerance  and  solidarity 
among all civilizations, peoples and cultures, including 
with 
linguistic 
minorities. This is as important now as it was when the 
Declaration  was  proclaimed,  for  Governments  have  a 
responsibility  to  respect  and  protect  all  persons,  to 
foster  peace  and  to  promote  education,  dialogue  and 
cooperation  for  the  building  of  a  society  marked  by 
harmonious coexistence. 
During  the  general  debate  of  the  sixty-sixth 

that  respect  for 
session,  my  delegation  affirmed 
religious 
for 
peacebuilding,  the  recognition  of  human  dignity  and 
the  safeguarding  of  the  rights  of  the  human  person. 
Unfortunately,  today  there  are  numerous  situations  in 
which the right of religious liberty is injured or denied, 
especially  for believers of different religions. There is 
an  increase  in  religiously  motivated  intolerance,  and, 
unfortunately, one sees that Christians in various parts 
of 
to 
discrimination  and  violence  because  of  their  faith, 
including the recent tragic incidents in Egypt. 

The  lack  of  respect  for  religious  freedom  is  a 
threat to security and peace and impedes the realization 
of  authentic, 
integral  human  development.  The 
particular  influence  of  a  specific  religion  in  a  nation 
should  never  imply  that  citizens  belonging  to  other 
confessions  are  discriminated  against  in  social  life  or, 
worse still, that violence against them is tolerated. 

In  that  connection,  a  common  commitment  to 
recognizing  and  promoting  the  religious  liberty  of 
every  person  and  every  community  is  favoured  by 
sincere 
interreligious  dialogue.  Governments  and 
international  agencies  are  called  on  to  support  such 
work  among  individuals  and  communities.  Effective 
measures  must  be  adopted  for  the  protection  of  all 
religious  minorities  wherever  they  are  threatened,  in 
order  that,  above  all,  believers  of  all  confessions  can 
live in security and continue to make their contribution 
to the society of which they are members. 

Unfortunately,  there  are  also  countries  in  the 
world  today,  especially  some  so-called  developed 
increasingly 
the  world 
subjected 
11-55082 

9 

A/66/PV.35 

countries, in which, although great importance is given 
to pluralism and tolerance, religion tends paradoxically 
to be considered as a factor foreign or destabilizing to 
modern society, in which different means are sought to 
marginalize  religion  and  impede  it  from  influencing 
social life. 

Yet it is an undeniable fact that the great religions 
of the world have made a significant contribution to the 
development  of  civilization,  as  the  sincere  search  for 
God  has  led  to  greater  respect  for  the  dignity  of  the 
human  person.  Christian  communities,  with 
their 
patrimonies of values and principles, have contributed 
strongly to individuals’ and peoples’ awareness of their 
identity  and  dignity,  as  well  as  to  the  triumph  of  the 
institutions of the rule of law and to the affirmation of 
the  rights  of  the  human  person  and  of  his  or  her 
corresponding  duties.  From  that  perspective,  it  is 
important that believers feel as free today as yesterday 
to offer their  contribution to the promotion of the just 
regulation of human realities, both through responsible 
commitments at the civil, economic and political level 
and through the witness of their charity and faith. 

My  delegation  is  aware  of  the  many  activities 
carried  out  by  the  main  United  Nations  entities  in  the 
field of dialogue. In that regard, it is essential that the 
activities  carried  out  by  those  actors  truly  support 
cultures  and  religions  in  building  a  culture  of  peace. 
That  means  fully  respecting  the  various  religious  and 
ethical  values  and  cultural  backgrounds  of  people  in 
conformity with universally recognized human rights. 

The  principles  upon  which  the  Organization  was 
founded  are  a  constant  reminder  for  all  States  to 
commit  themselves  to  bringing  an  end  to  all  conflicts 
and  building  peaceful  coexistence  among  all  peoples. 
That  requires  Governments  to  work  to  protect  all  of 
their  citizens  and  promote  mutual  understanding.  The 
more  that  Governments  are  able  to  do  this,  the  more 
they  will  able  to  achieve  their  purpose,  namely,  the 
promotion  of  the  common  good,  which  necessarily 
entails  recognition,  respect,  defence  and  promotion  of 
the rights of all persons. 

The  Acting  President: In  accordance  with 
General Assembly resolution 49/2, of 19 October 1994, 
I  now  call  on  the  observer  for  the  International 
Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies. 

Mr.  Lobry-Boulanger  (International  Federation 
of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies): On the heels 
International  Day  of  Non-Violence  and 
of 
the 
and 
a 
social 
inclusion 
following  the  theme  of  this  year’s  general  debate  — 
“The role of mediation in the settlement of disputes by 
peaceful means” — the International Federation of Red 
Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies  (IFRC)  welcomes 
this  timely  debate  on  a  culture  of  peace.  The  IFRC 
further  welcomes  the  reports  of  the  Secretary-General 
(A/66/280)  and  of  the  Director-General  of  UNESCO 
(see  A/66/273)  on  this  agenda  item,  and  the  progress 
described in them. 

The  IFRC  is  strongly  committed  to  fostering  a 
global culture of respect for diversity, non-violence and 
peace, intercultural dialogue and social inclusion where 
human values and dignity are truly celebrated. Indeed, 
promoting 
culture  of 
non-violence  and  peace  is  one  of  the  IFRC’s  three 
organizational priorities for the present decade.  

Based  on  the  extensive  experience  of  our  186 
National  Societies  at  the  community  level,  today  I 
would  like  to  touch  on  the  role  of  values  and  skills-
based  education,  the  importance  of  engaging  and 
empowering youth and the promotion of non-violence. 

We  all  carry  biases  and  prejudice  from  our 
upbringing,  schooling,  media  and  other  influences. 
Addressing  violent  expressions  such  as  discrimination 
and  exclusion requires a change of mindsets,  attitudes 
and  behaviours  at  the  level  of  the  individual  and  an 
enabling  environment  for  that  change  to  happen.  One 
place to start is reinforcement of the role of education, 
both formal and informal, in the promotion of a culture 
of non-violence and peace, not only in schools but in a 
variety  of  settings  such  as  family,  sports  and  social 
activities. 

In his report on current global and national trends 
and  challenges  and  their  impact  on  education,  the 
Secretary-General  states  that  “Schools  should  be  seen 
first and foremost as places for imparting the most vital 
skills: tolerance, mutual respect and the ability to live 
peacefully  with  others”  (E/2011/82,  para.  79).  The 
IFRC  supports  that  view  and  believes  that  schools, 
along  with  other  settings,  present  opportunities  for  us 
to  learn  values  such  as  respect  for  diversity,  mutual 
understanding,  compassion  and  cooperation,  and  to 
develop 
non-violent 
communication and peaceful resolution of tensions. In 
short,  a  values  and  skills-based  education  is  vital  to 
transforming the ways we relate to each other. 
Youth  as  Agents  of  Behavioural  Change  — 

YABC  —  is  a  flagship  initiative  of  the  IFRC  that 
empathy, 
skills 
like 
10 

11-55082 
in 
uses 
them 
initiative 
providing 
humanitarian 
Teachers  have  also  welcomed 


places  youth  at  the  centre  of  efforts  to  promote  a 
culture  of  non-violence  and  peace  through  informal 
values  and  skills-based  peer  education.  The  initiative 
was created for youth and with youth in the Red Cross 
Red  Crescent  worldwide  and  empowers 
to 
assume  a  leadership  role  in  transforming  their  local 
communities.  The  YABC 
a 
non-cognitive  methodology,  peer  education  and 
innovative  platforms  such  as  games,  role-playing, 
visualization,  drama,  dance,  arts, 
relaxation  and 
movement.  It  has  been  met  by  great  appreciation  of 
both youth and parents.  

the  YABC 
methodology  within  formal  education  systems.  For 
example, the French Red Cross, which partners with its 
Government 
values 
education  in  schools,  has  begun  utilizing  the  YABC 
methodology in its work, with great success. The IFRC 
encourages the institutionalization of values and skills-
based  education  in  formal  school  curricula  at  the 
national  level,  starting  in  primary  and  pre-school 
levels, as well as its inclusion in informal education. 

In  the  face  of  levels  of  violence  that  affect  all 
continents,  countries  and  communities,  a  values  and 
skills-based  education  can  help  us  address 
the 
underlying  causes,  especially  when  coupled  with 
initiatives  that  foster  social  inclusion  and  respect  for 
diversity and that build resilience against violence. Our 
goal  must  be  to  promote  a  culture  where  violence  is 
never  an  option.  Since  violence  risk  factors  exist  at 
multiple  levels  —  individual,  family,  community, 
social  and  cultural  —  it  is  possible  to  work  in  each 
level  and  thus  enhance  resilience.  In  other  words,  we 
can build individual or community capacity to adapt to 
and remain strong in the face of adversity. 

that 
in 
programmes  that  proactively  prevent  stigma,  gender 
inequality and abuse, among many other activities and 
that empower vulnerable groups of people will become 
stronger  and  less  prone  to  violence.  It  is  important  to 
target  youth  and  communities  most  at  risk.  For 
example, our member National Societies in the Central 
American and Caribbean region are addressing youth at 
risk  of  exclusion  in  11  urban  and  suburban  areas  by 
increasing  their  social  and  institutional  skills  through 
the  Regional  Strategy  on  Violence  Prevention  project. 
Another  example  is  the  Soccer  Against  Violence 
project  of 
the  South  African  Red  Cross,  which 
inculcates values such as tolerance, self-discipline and 
communities 
Concretely, 
invest 
A/66/PV.35
of 
that 
them 
Given 
opinion 
differences 
is:  how  can  we  deal  with 
personal  development  in  youth  at  risk  —  youth  who 
face  high  levels  of  violence,  intolerance  and  social 
crimes, among other factors. 

and 
disagreements  are  a  normal  part  of  humanity,  the  real 
question 
in  a 
constructive  way?  Pursuing  values  and  skills-based 
education, empowering youth and investing in violence 
prevention are all concrete actions we can take to help 
transform  mindsets,  attitudes  and  behaviours.  In  all 
corners  of 
face 
that  require  creative  and  constructive 
challenges 
solutions that foster a culture of peace. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker in the debate on agenda item 15. The General 
Assembly  has 
its 
consideration of item 15. 
the  world,  communities 
thus  concluded 
this  stage  of 
today 




to 
relating 
in  document  A/66/231 
Agenda item 7 (continued) 
Organization of work, adoption of the agenda and 
allocation of items 

  Request for the inclusion of an additional 
sub-item submitted by the Secretary-General 
(A/66/231) 
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 

will now take up a request submitted by the Secretary-
General 
the 
membership  of  the  United  Nations  Staff  Pension 
Committee. In his note, the Secretary-General informs 
the Assembly  of  the  resignation  of Andrei  Kovalenko 
from  the  membership  of  the  Staff  Pension  Committee 
effective  19  September.  A  vacancy  in  the  Committee 
therefore occurred on that date. 
As  the  agenda  of  the  sixty-sixth  session  of  the 

Assembly  does  not  contain  a  sub-item  on 
the 
appointment  of  members  of  the  United  Nations  Staff 
Pension  Committee, 
the  Secretary-General  has 
therefore  deemed  it  necessary  to  request,  pursuant  to 
rule  15  of  the  rules  of  procedure  of  the  General 
Assembly,  the  inclusion  in  the  agenda  of  the  current 
session 
entitled 
“Appointment  of  members  and  alternate  members  of 
the  United  Nations  Staff  Pension  Committee”,  under 
agenda  item  115,  “Appointments  to  fill  vacancies  in 
subsidiary organs and other appointments”. 
Owing to the nature of the item, unless there is an 

objection,  may  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly 
additional 
sub-item 
an 
of 
11-55082 

11 

A/66/PV.35 

agrees that the relevant provision of rule 40 of the rules 
of  procedure,  which  would  require  a  meeting  of  the 
General Committee on the question of the inclusion of 
this  additional  sub-item  on  the  agenda,  could  be 
waived?  
It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 

General  Assembly,  on  the  proposal  of  the  Secretary-
General, wishes to include in the agenda of the current 
session  an  additional  sub-item  entitled  “Appointment 
of  members  and  alternate  members  of  the  United 
Nations  Staff  Pension  Committee”  as  a  sub-item  of 
agenda  item  115  under  Heading  I,  “Organizational, 
administrative and other matters”? 
It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President:  The  Secretary-General 

has requested that the sub-item be allocated to the Fifth 
Committee.  May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the 
Assembly 
the  Fifth 
Committee? 
It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President:  I  should  like  to  inform 

embers that this additional sub-item becomes sub-item 
(k)  of  agenda  item  115  on  the  agenda  of  the  current 
session. 
this  sub-item 
to  allocate 
to 



  Documentation for the election of the members 
of the International Law Commission 
The  Acting  President:  I  would  now  like  to 

consult  the  General Assembly  on  a  matter  concerning 
sub-item  (b)  of  agenda  item  114,  “Election  of  the 
members of the International Law Commission”, which  
to 
reported 
Secretary-General 
the  election  of  34  members  of 
election has been scheduled to take place on Thursday, 
17  November  2011.  On  that  day,  the  Assembly  will 
proceed 
the 
Commission,  whose  terms  of  office  are  to  commence 
on  1  January  2012.  It  should  be  recalled  that,  in 
accordance  with  the  statute  of  the  International  Law 
Commission,  the  Secretary-General  communicated  to 
the  Governments  of  Member  States,  in  document 
A/66/88,  the  list  of  candidates  submitted  within  the 
required  time  for  the  submission  of  nominations,  that 
is, by 1 June 2011.  
In  documents  A/66/88/Add.1,  Add.2  and  Add.3, 

the 
developments 
concerning candidates, including new candidates and a 
withdrawal,  since  the  issuance  of  document  A/66/88. 
The  statements  of  qualifications  of  the  candidates  are 
contained in document A/66/90 and Add.1 and Add.2. 

Under these circumstances, it is necessary for the 
General Assembly to take a decision as to whether the 
new  candidatures  should  be  accepted  in  spite  of  the 
submission  of  their  names  subsequent  to  the  deadline 
and  whether  they  should  be  incorporated  into  a 
consolidated list of candidates. It has been the practice 
of  the Assembly  to  incorporate  such  late  submissions 
into a consolidated list. 

If I hear no objection, I shall take it that it is the 
wish of the General Assembly to request the Secretary-
General to issue such a consolidated list of candidates. 


candidates will be issued under the symbol A/66/514. 

It was so decided.  
The  Acting  President:  The  consolidated  list  of 
  The meeting rose at 4.25 p.m. 
12 

11-55082 
