
A/66/PV.13
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

13th plenary meeting 
Wednesday, 21 September 2011, 6 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 
tell 
I  can 
the  Assembly  about 
This occasion is unique, for two reasons.  
First, 

I  also  salute  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon.  I 
reiterate  our  appreciation  of  his  management,  and 
congratulate  him  on  his  re-election  for  a  second  five-
year term. I thank him for the support he has given to 
my country and Central America, shown especially by 
his recent visit to Guatemala. 

My  presence  at  every  General Assembly  session 
during the four years of my presidency testifies to our 
backing for the United Nations and our gratitude for its 
support. 


the 
achievements  of  my Administration  over  the  past  four 
years and also about some pending issues. Secondly, I 
can  report  that  just  10  days  ago  the  first  round  of 
general  elections  was  held  in  my  country,  in  a  calm, 
normal  climate  with  broad  citizen  participation,  thus 
consolidating  our  progress  towards  a  democratic  and 
participatory society. 

Let  me  then  start  with  a  few  words  about  the 
progress  made  in  Guatemala,  despite  the  exceptional 
obstacles created by the international financial crisis of 
2008-2009,  a  severe  political  crisis  in  Guatemala  in 
2009 that was overcome in compliance with the rule of 
law  and  truth  revealed  by  investigations,  and  the 
impact of three major natural disasters, which led to a 
109-day  state  of  emergency,  as  well  as  historical 
challenges  that  we  face  now  and  shall  face  in  the 
future. 







  In the absence of the President, Mr. Salehi 
(Islamic Republic of Iran), Vice-President, took 
the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 6.05 p.m. 

Address by Mr. Álvaro Colom Caballeros, President 
of the Republic of Guatemala 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Guatemala. 

Mr.  Álvaro  Colom  Caballeros,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Guatemala,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Álvaro Colom Caballeros, 
President  of  the  Republic  of  Guatemala,  and  to  invite 
him to address the Assembly. 
President Colom Caballeros (spoke in Spanish): 

I  begin  by  saluting  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser, 
who  presides  over  the  current  session.  His  long 
experience  at  the  United  Nations  augurs  well  for  our 
work.  
I  also  acknowledge  the  outstanding  work  of 

the  outgoing 
Mr. Joseph  Deiss  of  Switzerland, 
President.  Our  delegation  worked  very  closely  with 
Mr. Deiss,  and  we  can  testify  to  his  exceptional 
commitment  to  the  United  Nations  and  his  immense 
capacity for work. 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-50847 (E) 
*1150847* 

Sixth, 

Third,  we  began 
I shall sum up in a few words the significance of 
A/66/PV.13 


my period in office, as follows. 

First,  my  Administration  gave  priority  to  the 
individual  by  dealing  with  social  issues  that  had  not 
been  addressed  for  50  years.  We  have  tried  to  reduce 
poverty  and  extreme  poverty,  with  tangible  results, 
especially  through  our  social  cohesion  programmes, 
particularly conditional transfers of cash to mothers of 
extremely poor families — more than 940,000 families. 

Second,  space  was  recovered  for  the  State  in 
areas  previously  dominated  corporately  by  private 
interests. 

to  contain  and  reverse  a 
shocking  escalation  of  the  criminal  violence  that  had 
started  in  earlier  periods,  by  reorganizing  the  security 
forces  and  promoting  policies  that  confronted,  instead 
of coexisting with, organized crime. 

Fourth,  in  accordance  with  those  measures,  we 
recovered  whole  territories  previously  dominated  by 
drug  traffickers,  particularly  the  Mayan  biosphere  in 
the  northern  Department  of  Petén,  consisting  of  more 
than  138,000  hectares;  48,000  head  of  cattle  were 
expelled  from  the  area,  and  the  Government  has 
retaken  control  of  it.  Unprecedented  seizures  of  drugs 
have  taken  place.  In  three  and  a  half  years  we  have 
seized  $12  billion,  the  equivalent  of  almost  two 
national  budgets.  By  comparison,  over  the  eight-year 
period before my Government came to power scarcely 
$1 billion was seized. 

However  much  we  do  in  the  Central  American 
region, Mexico and Colombia, it is essential that drug 
consumption  be  controlled.  Drug-consuming  countries 
must  accept  co-responsibility  for  the  daily  killings  in 
our  countries,  and  for  the  uncontrolled  sales  of  arms 
entering  it.  They  must  take  co-responsibility  for  the 
control of money-laundering and of arms, which bring 
death  to  our  region,  and  for  the  control  of  factories 
producing  chemical  precursors  for  drug  production. 
Responsibility must be taken for the destination of the 
products and arms. 

We  cannot  control  organized  crime  in  Central 
America without the support of Mexico and Colombia. 
We can win the battle only if the consumer markets do 
their share. We cannot go on shedding blood and being 
wounded  by  bullets.  That  is  unfair.  The  consumer 
markets must assume true co-responsibility. 
the  effects  of 
the 
Seventh,  we  promoted 
Tenth, the independence of the different branches 

Fifth,  a  series  of  wide-ranging  policies  was 
adopted to gain greater transparency. They included the 
creation  of  the  Secretariat  for  Transparency  and  the 
adoption of a law on public information. 

the  energy  matrix  was  renewed  and 
upgraded  to  make  it  more  environmentally  sound  and 
to  counter 
rising  cost  of 
hydrocarbons. 

two  major  economic 
corridors  in  poverty-stricken  regions.  In  addition,  the 
construction  of  the  Northern  Transversal  Strip  will 
unite the Mexican State of Chiapas with our neighbour, 
Honduras, and Polochic. 

Eighth,  we  pursued  a  dynamic  foreign  policy, 
putting  the  Central American  region  on  a  new  footing 
and  making  possible  a  closer  understanding  with  our 
neighbours of Latin America and the Caribbean. I shall 
return to this matter a little later. 

Ninth,  municipal  power  was  given  full  respect 
and  strengthened,  being  recognized  as  a  fourth  power 
in the democratic system. 

of the State was faithfully respected. 

Finally,  while  everything  that  I  have  described 
was  achieved  we  preserved  and  improved  a  solid, 
stable macroeconomic system. Guatemala is one of the 
three countries that had no shrinkage of their economy 
during the financial crisis. 

Some important topics require the participation of 
every  State  institution;  we  need  legislation  by  the 
the 
Congress  of 
institutions 
judicial 
system.  Among  other  matters,  I  wish  to  refer  to  the 
struggle we have waged against impunity, experienced 
in  Guatemala  for  many  years.  Seven  of  the  most 
wanted  drug 
to  all 
Guatemalans,  are  now  in  jail,  awaiting  trial.  The 
Government  has  initiated  trials  for  crimes  against 
humanity  committed  during  our  36-year  civil  war, 
which ended in 1996. Sentence has already been passed 
in some cases, and other trials are continuing. 
Here I wish to highlight the crucial role played by 

the  United  Nations 
International 
Commission  against  Impunity  in  Guatemala,  a  unique 
United  Nations  exercise  which  enjoys  the  strong 
support  of  not  only  my  Government,  but  also 
traffickers,  who  are  known 
that  constitute 
the  country’s 
the  Republic  and 
rulings  by 
through 
the 
2 

11-50847 
is  not  possible  without 
Among  the  main  challenges  facing  us,  I  wish  to 


Guatemalan  civil  society.  We  are  pleased  that  the 
Commission’s  mandate  has  been  extended  for  two 
more  years,  until  September  2013.  We  recognize  the 
significant  achievements  it  has  recorded  since  its 
establishment. 

mention the following. 

First,  despite  the  progress  in  social  matters,  we 
must  acknowledge  how  much  remains  to  be  done  to 
eliminate  poverty  and  raise  the  level  of  wellbeing  of 
the Guatemalan population. There were many years of 
neglect,  especially  of  the  most  vulnerable,  such  as 
children, single mothers, and a disproportionate part of 
the indigenous population.  
I  am  convinced  that  the  actions  taken  should  be 

institutionalized  through  social  cohesion  programmes 
and  presidential  programmes.  That  will  require  a 
substantial  fiscal  transformation  to  provide  the  State 
with the necessary  funds. It should be recognized that 
that 
the  support  and 
participation  of  Congress,  even  where  the  Central 
Government promotes it, as in my case.  

In  economic  matters  we  need  a  revival  of 
productive  activities  in  a  framework  of  financial 
stability  and  fiscal  reform  compatible  with  financing 
for development. 

location, 
Guatemala  has  become  an  important  transit  point  for 
illicit  activities,  including  drug  trafficking  and  human 
trafficking, both of which are increasingly in the hands 
of  transnational  organized  crime.  We  have  made 
strenuous efforts to  deal  with them  and to address the 
public demand for improved security for every citizen.  

It  is  essential  to  have  regional  and  international 
cooperation.  Member  countries  of 
the  Central 
American  Integration  System  have  adopted  a  historic 
Central American Security Strategy, which was jointly 
presented,  with  the  support  of  the  Governments  of 
Colombia and Mexico, to the international community 
at  an  international  conference  held  in  Guatemala  on 
22 and  23  June. The  main  point  is  that we  have  acted 
forcefully,  but  that  it  is  imperative  to  implement  the 
22 projects that need funding. 

Here  I  recall  the  words  of  President  Calderón  of 
Mexico  at  the  June  conference,  when  he  asked  what 
peace there would be in Central America, and Mexico 
and  Colombia,  if  we  were  north  of  Canada;  if  we 
Secondly,  due 
to  our  geographical 
A/66/PV.13
simply  changed  our  geographic  position  we  would 
eliminate the problem of drug trafficking. Once again I 
stress  the  co-responsibility  of  the  drug-consuming 
markets. 

Thirdly,  it  is  difficult  to  promote  development 
when  we  repeatedly  face  severe  natural  disasters, 
which recently have been occurring at a rate of at least 
one  a  year.  This  can  be  attributed,  at  least  in  part,  to 
climate change, given the high vulnerability of Central 
America to the effects of this phenomenon. Therefore, 
it is imperative that humanity close ranks in defence of 
our  common  habitat:  our  planet.  So  far,  progress  has 
been minimal. We urge the international community to 
redouble  efforts  to  take  tangible  steps  at  the  next 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held 
in Durban, South Africa, in December. 

In  my  previous  statements  to  the  Assembly,  I 
have  concluded  with  references  to  our  foreign  policy, 
especially  as  it  affects,  or  is  impacted  by,  the  United 
Nations agenda. 

My Government has developed an active foreign 
policy,  which  includes  strengthening  the  integration 
process  in  the  framework  of  the  Central  American 
Integration  System.  We  are  confident  that,  as  part  of 
that active policy, in some three weeks we shall attain 
one of our main objectives at the multilateral level — 
Guatemala’s  election  by  the  General  Assembly  to  a 
non-permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council  for  the 
next biennium. This will renew our commitment to the 
United Nations, and also strengthen our foreign policy, 
exposing us to a broad and complex diplomatic agenda. 
We  shall  carry  out  our  work  with  responsibility  and 
independence,  and  with  respect  for  the  principles  and 
values enshrined in the Charter.  

I  thank  our  regional  group,  the  Latin  American 
and  Caribbean  Group,  for  endorsing  our  candidature, 
and  I  thank  all  Member  States  in  advance  for  the 
support  that  I  trust  we  shall  receive  when  new 
members are elected to the Security Council. 
The  central  theme  of  the  session  is  mediation.  I 

reiterate  our 
strengthening 
preventive  diplomacy  and  the  instruments  that  the 
United  Nations  possesses  to  prevent  conflicts.  In  this 
context,  we  can  even  accept  sanctions  regimes, 
provided that they come about as a result of collective 
decisions taken by the Security Council.  
full  commitment 
to 
11-50847 

3 

A/66/PV.13 


The  other  side  of  the  coin  is  that  we  reject 
sanctions  and  coercive  measures  taken  unilaterally.  In 
this  regard,  we  urge  the  Government  of  the  United 
States of America to abandon the economic embargo of 
the  Republic  of  Cuba.  We  believe  that  such  a  step 
would  have  many  favourable  consequences  in  both 
countries.  

We  are  following  closely,  and  with  hope,  the 
events  affecting  several  countries  of  North  Africa, 
which  will  give  a  greater  voice  to  their  peoples. 
Clearly, it is up to them to decide their own destiny. 

But in the midst of the current turbulent situation, 
it  is  not  possible  to  delay  a  solution  to  the  secular 
conflict  resulting  from  the  confrontation  between  the 
State  of  Israel  and  its  neighbours.  We  support  the 
creation  of  a  viable  and  prosperous  Palestinian  State 
living  in  peace  and  harmony,  behind  secure  and 
defensible borders, side by side with the State of Israel. 
We  understand  that  the  international  community  can 
take  part  in  the  process  of  fulfilling  that  vision,  as 
indeed  is  happening  through  the  so-called  Quartet 
comprising  the  United  States,  the  Russian  Federation, 
the  European  Union  and  the  United  Nations,  but  its 
realization  is  up  to  the  two  parties  —  Israel  and 
Palestine —  and  should  be  achieved  through  direct 
negotiations to resolve all outstanding issues. 

We  reiterate  our  commitment  to  the  relaunching 
of  the  regional  integration  process  of  the  Central 
American  Integration  System  to  bring  about  even 
closer  relations  with  our  neighbours  of  the  Caribbean 
and Latin America, and we enthusiastically support the 
creation  of  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean States. 

In another crucial area, we regard as an important 
step  towards  resolving  our  age-old  territorial  dispute 
with  Belize  the  signing  of  the  Special  Agreement, 
which,  when  the  domestic  juridical  processes  are 
concluded,  will  enable  both  countries  to  seek  a  legal 
solution  through  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  I 
am  pleased  to  report  that  the  Congress  of  Guatemala 
has  approved  the  Agreement  unanimously.  The  next 
step will be to submit it to a national referendum. 
In the ancestral Mayan calendar today is the day 

of  balance,  the  day  of  dawn,  the  day  that  the 
Guacamaya  sings,  announcing  the  coming  of  a  new 
dawn. Today we have come together to witness a new 
dawn. It should be the dawn of peace, the dawn of less 
poverty, the dawn of harmony and above all the dawn 
of respect for fundamental human rights.  
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  thank  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Guatemala for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Álvaro  Colom  Caballeros,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Guatemala,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Abdoulaye Wade, President of the 
Republic of Senegal 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  hear 

an address by the President of the Republic of Senegal. 
Mr. Abdoulaye Wade, President of the Republic of 

Senegal, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Abdoulaye  Wade, 
President of the Republic of Senegal, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly. 
President  Wade  (spoke  in  French):  Senegal 

welcomes 
the  election  of  Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz 
Al-Nasser as President of the General Assembly to lead 
its work at this sixty-sixth session. Therefore, I address 
to  him  and  his  country  my  warm  congratulations.  He 
will  have  the  support  of  the  Senegalese  delegation 
throughout his mandate. 

I  also  extend  to  the  President’s  predecessor, 
Mr. Joseph Deiss, our appreciation for all his efforts to 
revitalize and strengthen the General Assembly so that 
it may play its role under the Charter. 
In  addition,  I  also  reiterate  to  the  Secretary-

General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-Moon,  my  warmest 
congratulations  on  everything  he  has  done  for  the 
Organization. 
I should like to touch on the theme of the session, 

the role of mediation in the settlement of disputes. The 
Charter has a number of provisions for the prevention 
of  conflicts  and  for  conflict-resolution.  This  goal, 
which was set down in the Charter 66 years ago by the 
founding  fathers,  remains,  despite  evident  progress,  a 
long  way  off.  This  challenge  concerns  us,  just  as  it 
engages our collective and  individual responsibility to 
save current and future generations from the scourge of 
war.  
4 

11-50847 
Our 
in 
is  addressed 
theme,  mediation, 



While  the  spectre  of  a  major  conflict  has  faded 
since  the  end  of  the  Cold  War,  millions  of  men  and 
women  around  the  world  continue  to  suffer  the 
disastrous consequences of conflicts old and new. 

Peace can be threatened in different ways. It can 
be  threatened  when,  on  the  fertile  ground  of  political 
antagonisms  and  social,  economic  and 
religious 
conflicts,  confrontation  gains  the  upper  hand  over 
tolerance, respect and acceptance of our differences. 

Peace  is  also  threatened  when  the  legitimate 
aspirations  of  peoples  to  freedom  and  respect  for 
human  rights  find  in  response  only  indifference  and 
refusal  of  dialogue,  if  not  systematic  repression,  as  is 
the case in a number of countries. 
the 

Charter,  but  there  are  similar  notions,  such  as  good 
offices  and  negotiations.  I  would  like  to  contribute 
something  by  defining  mediation  as  a  mechanism 
whereby  a  person,  a  State  or  an  institution  comes 
between  two  parties  in  real  or  potential  conflict  and 
seeks to bring their points of view closer together, with 
a view to bringing the parties to make concessions and 
reach a consensus. That can apply to internal conflicts 
as well as conflicts between States. 

I  wish  to  refer  to  resolution  37/10,  of  1982, 
approving  the  Manila  Declaration  on  the  Peaceful 
Settlement  of  International  Disputes,  and  the  1988 
the  Prevention  and  Removal  of 
Declaration  on 
Disputes 
and  Situations  which  May  Threaten 
International Peace and Security and on the Role of the 
United  Nations  in  this  Field  (resolution  43/51).  To 
these may be added the Agenda for Peace (A/47/277), 
drafted after the first Security Council summit meeting, 
held  in  January  1992,  establishing  a  doctrine  of 
so-called tension-prevention through early warning and 
preventive diplomacy. 

The  fact  is  that  by  no  stretch  of  the  imagination 
can  our  Organization  alone  do  everything.  We  must 
consider  mediation  efforts  at  other  levels,  such  as  the 
regional level. It is  a pity that Africa has forgotten an 
original  mechanism 
following 
independence:  meetings  between  Heads  of  State  at 
their  border  to  directly  address  their  differences. 
Unfortunately,  this  good  practice  is  falling  out  of 
fashion,  with  general  international  mechanisms  being 
favoured. 
often 
used 
A/66/PV.13
instead  of  armed  national 

In  the  two  categories  of  mediation  —  within  a 
country  or  between  countries  —  we  have  very  rich 
experiences in West Africa. I shall limit myself to only 
mentioning them, because some are fairly well known.  

For  example,  with  regard  to  internal  conflict, 
when  I  was  head  of  an  opposition  party  I  personally 
intervened  at  the  request  of  Heads  of  State,  who 
appreciated  that  I  had  chosen  a  democratic  internal 
opposition 
liberation 
movements.  I  often  succeeded  in  bringing  together 
points of view and even in integrating  opposition into 
various  Governments,  which  I  did  myself  later  by 
agreeing  to  enter  the  Government  of  the  person  who 
had been my adversary in a number of elections. 

I can give the example of Guinea-Bissau, a matter 
resolved  by  a  trio  of  Heads  of  State,  of  whom  I  was 
one, which decided to travel to the country, which was 
in  conflict  with  the  army.  Order  was  successfully 
re-established.  The  countries  concerned  were  Nigeria, 
Ghana  and  Senegal.  More  recently  there  was  the 
Ivorian  crisis,  which  ended  happily  thanks  to  the 
Economic  Community  of  West  African  States 
(ECOWAS),  supported  by  the  United  Nations  and 
France. 

I  could  add  the  normalization  of  the  situation  in 
Niger  and  Guinea-Conakry  through  the  mediation  of 
ECOWAS,  which  succeeded  despite  difficulties  in 
establishing an elected Government. I can also cite the 
peaceful  declaration  of  independence  of  the  State  of 
South  Sudan.  I  commend  the  representative  of  that 
brother country here at the United Nations. 

There  are  of  course  other  cases.  The  examples  I 
have given were just to show that at the regional level 
many  conflicts  can  be  settled  directly  by  States, 
sometimes  with  the  assistance  of  an  outside  country, 
such  as  France,  or  with  the  assistance  of  the  United 
Nations. 

To  conclude  that  list  of  countries,  I  want  to  say 
that just a few days ago, as there is a threat of trouble 
on  the  border  between  Liberia  and  Côte  d’Ivoire,  the 
President  of  ECOWAS  convened  a  small  group  of 
neighbouring  countries,  and  we  were  able,  with  the 
help of the United Nations, to establish a mechanism to 
in  Côte 
prevent 
d’Ivoire  who  were  seeking 
to 
destabilize the country during election time. 
intervention  of  mercenaries 
to  enter  Liberia 
the 
11-50847 

5 

A/66/PV.13 


Sadly,  despite  those  successes,  there  are  other 
potential  conflicts,  such  as  that  which  is  harming 
relations  between  Eritrea  and  Ethiopia,  and 
the 
potential conflict in Darfur. 

I  turn  to  mediation  used  in  conflicts  between 
States. I shall take just one example: Palestine and the 
State  of  Israel.  I  commend  all  the  efforts  made  over 
many  years  to  bring  the  two  parties  closer  together, 
which  unfortunately  have  not  yet  succeeded.  So  this 
year we have an application by Palestine to the General 
Assembly  for  recognition  as  a  Member  State  of  the 
United  Nations.  There  is  no  doubt  about  Senegal’s 
support  for  the  application;  it  is  the  consequence  of 
what  has  been  our  policy  for  a  long  time,  particularly 
as  today  Senegal  is  Chairman  of  the  United  Nations 
Committee on the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of 
the Palestinian People. 

Senegal supports an independent Palestinian State 
within internationally recognized borders as well as the 
existence  of  the  State  of  Israel,  each  within  its  own 
borders.  It  will  not  be  easy  to  achieve  that,  but  the 
international community will do its very best. 
I  take  this  opportunity  to  make  a  clarification, 

because,  despite  my  proximity  to  the  Arab  countries 
and to the Palestinians, a few days ago a statement was 
made  about  my  playing  the  role  of  mediator  in  the 
Israel-Palestine 
President  Netanyahu’s 
understanding  was  mistaken.  I  have  never  been  a 
mediator in the Palestine-Israel conflict and have never 
sought to be a mediator. Moreover, we need to do much 
more than to call one country or one person to mediate 
in such a complicated situation. 

All  goodwill  is  needed  for  a  solution.  Having 
been  awarded  the  Houphouët-Boigny  Peace  Prize,  I 
must  honour  that  distinction,  so  wherever  I  can 
intervene  to  find  solutions  I  do  so,  on  my  own 
responsibility. I intervened personally for the release of 
a young soldier, Gilad Shalit, a few years ago.  
Unfortunately, that was not successful, but on the 

basis  of  a  number  of  suggestions  I  took  the  initiative 
once  again  some  days  ago.  That  seems  to  have  had  a 
reaction, in the light of what President Netanyahu said. 
He said that he did not want mediation by Senegal, and 
that  Senegal  was  an  ally  of  Palestine.  But  he  was 
wrong. I do not do mediation; I provide good offices; I 
take  it  on  my  own  responsibility  to  help  release  one 
young man when I believe that that young man should 
be elsewhere other than a prison and when I think that I 
conflict. 
the 
two  parties  — 
facilitate  understanding  of 
can  convince  the  parties  —  above  all,  the  Palestinian 
parties, the current Government of Palestine, Hamas — 
of the need to release that young man for humanitarian 
reasons.  

If I succeed, excellent; if I fail, it will not stop me 
from starting over again. I will do that regardless of the 
position  of 
in  other  words, 
regardless of the position of Israel and of the position 
of  Hamas.  That  is  consistent  with  my  philosophy  of 
peace and the choice that I have made to contribute to 
extending cooperation where I can. 

I  believe  that  fear  and  mistrust,  which  persist 
between Israel and Palestine, could be mitigated — this 
is  a  simple  suggestion  that  I  make  to  our  Secretary-
General — by establishing a committee of three States 
chosen  by  the  two  parties.  Those  States  would  hold 
discussions to discover what guarantees are demanded 
by each party to commit to the path of negotiation for 
the existence of two States, the State of Israel and the 
State of Palestine, because at present, I believe, there is 
no  dialogue,  indirect  or  direct.  I  believe  that  my 
suggestion  could 
the 
positions  on  both  sides  and  could  help  mitigate  fears 
and  concerns  that  are  major  psychological  barriers  to 
discussion and to any agreement. 

Maybe  I  am  wrong.  Maybe  this  will  not  end  in 
anything,  but  it  costs  nothing  to  try.  I  say  to  the 
Secretary-General: “Before you reply ‘No’, I want you 
to consider my proposal for 40 days. If after that time 
you  think  that  it  cannot  help  solve  the  problem,  you 
can  say  so.  But  I  beg  you  to  try  to  understand  the 
proposal.” I am ready to go into further details, even in 
a  document.  I  have  established  this  position,  which 
could  ultimately  be  fine-tuned  using  other  people’s 
contributions. 

As  I  come  to  the  end  of  my  address  I  want  to 
touch  on  Security  Council  reform.  The  topic  has  kept 
returning  in  a  cyclical  fashion  for  18  years,  and  we 
have made no progress, due to great confusion. 

The  current  Security  Council  system  has  certain 
advantages. A Security Council, an international order, 
must exist, but it must be improved. But in its current 
functioning  the  Security  Council  has  a  fundamental 
role, which is to ignore the African continent. Even on 
recent  issues,  such  as  Libya, Africa  has  no  permanent 
seat with a right of veto.  
6 

11-50847 
the 
that 
thought 
the  majority 



I will not speak of general reform of the Security 
Council. I know that it will not happen overnight. But I 
also know that since its creation there has been a need 
to increase the number of seats, and there needs to be a 
better distribution. 

I call for the remedying of a historic injustice to 
Africa.  Seventy  per  cent  of  the  issues  on  the  Security 
Council  agenda  are  African  questions,  and  Africa  is 
absent,  even  on  the  question  of  Libya.  Libya  is  an 
African  country.  Therefore,  it  would  be  good  to  have 
an  African  country  with  a  permanent  seat  on  the 
Security  Council  with  a  right  to  the  veto.  I  am  not 
talking  about  a  non-permanent  seat; 
it  must  be 
permanent.  

We  have  made  progress,  because  when  a  few 
years  ago  I  had  discussions  with  members  of  the 
Council 
idea  was 
reasonable,  if  it  could  be  detached  from  more  general 
demands.  But  each  time  we  bring  it  up  it  is  a  case  of 
one step forward, two steps back. But we should not be 
discouraged. 

I come to my last point: the environment and the 
agricultural  crisis.  These  are  also  issues  of  peace, 
because  the  environment  is  linked  to  climate  change 
affecting  particularly  the  developing  countries,  and 
above all Africa. 
A  few  years  ago  a  French  philosopher  wrote  a 

famous work, “L’Afrique, terre qui meurt”, in which he 
spoke  of  savannization  and  desertification,  problems 
that  my  own  country  suffers  from.  In  the  Sahel  I  find 
that those words are particularly well based.  

Above  all,  coastal  erosion  is  accelerating.  From 
Morocco  to  the  Gulf  of  Guinea  seawater  is  filtering 
through  layers  of  the  continental  shelf  deep  into  the 
continent  —  480  kilometres  —  salinizating  the  water 
table, with the result that the population is suffering an 
increasing lack of drinking water. 

Marine erosion does not just mean that the coast 
is being eroded by the sea. It is destroying land in the 
interior,  and  making  populations  emigrate  towards 
areas  where 
is 
historically  one  of 
the  main  mechanisms  of 
desertification.  Sometimes  whole  populations  are 
forced to go elsewhere. 

But we are not standing idly by. That is why we 
have  created  the  Great  Green  Wall,  extending  from 
long  and 
Dakar 
they  can  find  potable  water.  It 
to  Djibouti,  7,000  kilometres 
A/66/PV.13
to  mention 
15 kilometres wide. That is why we called on the EU to 
finance  a  study  with  European  and African  experts  to 
find a solution to the infiltration of marine waters into 
the continental shelf. 

We have built part of the Atlantic wall in Senegal, 
but only two kilometres, because one kilometre costs a 
great deal of money — $2 million. In depth it is to go 
as far as the granite plateau, at which point it can go no 
further.  We  do  not  want  to  take  it  too  far,  because  in 
environmental  matters  it  is  important  before  doing 
anything  to  find  out  what  the  consequences  elsewhere 
will be.  

That is why  we need to  analyse the matter in  an 
entirely scientific way, since the forces of the sea that 
are stopped have not been negated; they are diverted by 
the  sand  and  liquids.  The  experts  can  clarify  the 
situation and help us, with full knowledge of the facts, 
use our resources to end this degradation, which, sadly, 
is  leading  to  the  disappearance  of  a  large  part  of  our 
continent.  The  tsunami  is  not  just  the  effect  of  huge 
waves  on  a  coast.  It  is  also  destruction  that  happens 
within  our  continent.  I  wanted 
that 
phenomenon  to  draw  attention  to  the  great  dangers 
threatening Africa. 

Finally, we recently held the second International 
Dakar  Agricultural  Forum  to  consider  the  rise  in 
agriculture  prices, 
from  which  even  producing 
countries are suffering, like us, because we are also big 
consumers. 
the 
establishment of an organization for global agricultural 
governance. We  urge  that  the  headquarters  of  such  an 
important  institution  be  in  Africa,  and  not  in  a 
developed  country.  There  is  no  major  organization  of 
its  kind  with 
in  Africa.  The 
organizations that are helping us need to be with us on 
the ground.  

The role of the proposed organization would be to 
regulate the prices of agricultural products and ensure a 
minimum  income  for  small  farmers.  I  commend  our 
draft  resolution  on  the  matter.  The  policy  of  the 
organization  could  be  to  play  a  role  in  reducing 
productivity  differentials.  Why  is  productivity  higher 
in  the  United  States  and  Europe  than  in Africa  —  for 
example,  in  Zimbabwe?  We  need  to  ask  the  question 
and find solutions. 

In  Senegal,  we  have  addressed  the  issue  with  a 
plan that we  call the Grand Agricultural Offensive for 
Food  and  Abundance  to  deal  with  the  productivity 
its  headquarters 
participants 
proposed 
The 
11-50847 

7 

A/66/PV.13 

differentials  between  Senegal  and  certain  Italian 
regions. It has allowed us to move from being, in 2007, 
dependent on others for food to the status of a country 
that  has  achieved  food  self-sufficiency.  This  year  we 
may  even  be  able  to  begin  exporting,  which  is  a 
remarkable achievement. 

I  must  say  that  we  have  been  helped  by  chance, 
since fertilizer constitutes at least 30 per cent of costs, 
and  our  fertilizer  can  be  used  directly,  without  any 
preparation.  Moreover,  friendly  countries  helped  us 
acquire 
important  equipment  on  very  favourable 
conditions over a long term. 

The  scope  and  complexity  of  the  Organization’s 
tasks put in perspective its successes and its setbacks. 
But what determines our commitment to the institution, 
what gives hope to the peoples that we represent here, 
what  definitively  gives  them  trust  and  faith  in  the 
Organization,  is  the  feeling  that  when  it  deliberates, 
when  it  decides  and  when  it  acts,  it  observes  without 
discrimination  the  principles  enshrined  in  the  Charter: 
universality, legality, justice and impartiality. 

Finally,  the  extent  to  which  those  values  are 
safeguarded  is  the  measure  of  the  legitimacy  and 
success of our Organization’s interventions. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  thank  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Senegal for the statement he has just made. 

Mr. Abdoulaye Wade, President of the Republic of 
Senegal, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall. 


Address by Mr. Armando Emílio Guebuza, President 
of the Republic of Mozambique  
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  hear 

an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Mozambique. 

Mr.  Armando  Emílio  Guebuza,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Mozambique,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Armando Emílio Guebuza, 
President of the Republic of Mozambique, and to invite 
him to address the Assembly. 
in  Portuguese; 

English  text  provided  by  the  delegation):  We  join 
President  Guebuza
(spoke 
speakers 
Joseph  Deiss  of 
to  find  appropriate  solutions 
previous 
in  congratulating  Mr.  Nassir 
Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser,  of  Qatar,  on  his  election  to 
preside  over  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth 
session.  His  long  diplomatic  experience  makes  us 
anticipate  that  our  deliberations  will  be  crowned  with 
success. We take this opportunity to assure him our full 
readiness  to  contribute  to  the  success  of  this  session, 
and wish him well in the discharge of his duties. 
We  extend  our  congratulations  to  the  President’s 

predecessor,  Mr. 
the  Swiss 
Confederation,  on  his  commitment,  pragmatism  and 
dynamism in the conduct of the work of the sixty-fifth 
session. 

We  also  congratulate  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  on  his 
reappointment to the post of Secretary-General, which 
demonstrates the recognition of Member States, and of 
the 
international  community  as  a  whole,  of  his 
commitment to the pursuit and consolidation of peace, 
security  and 
international  development.  We  are 
encouraged  that,  thanks  to  his  full  commitment,  we 
will  continue  to  work  together,  under  the  aegis  of  the 
United  Nations, 
to 
common problems facing humanity. 

We  welcome  the  newest  Member  of  the  United 
Nations, the Republic of South Sudan. With this sister 
country,  we  celebrated  its  independence  and  at  that 
time  expressed  our  congratulations  on  this  important 
milestone. 

This  session  takes  place  at  a  critical  stage  of 
human  history,  characterized  in  particular  by  the 
impact  of  the  ongoing  global  financial  and  economic 
crisis; the rising prices of food and oil; the resurgence 
of  hotbeds  of 
instability, 
particularly  in  North  Africa  and  the  Middle  East;  the 
prevalence of pandemics such as malaria, tuberculosis 
and  HIV/AIDS;  and  the  increasing  occurrence  of 
natural  disasters.  These 
a 
multilateral  approach  in  order  to  find  consensual, 
effective and sustainable responses. 

Indeed,  the  negative  impact  of  these  complex 
phenomena,  especially  in  developing  countries,  is  a 
potential  factor  of  political  and  social  instability.  It  is 
therefore  necessary  to  focus  on  democratic  principles 
grounded 
governance, 
accountability and transparency and respect for human 
rights. 
tension  and  political 
challenges 
inclusive 
require 
on 
dialogue, 
8 

11-50847 



In this context, we commend the choice of theme 
for  the  session:  the  role  and  importance  of  mediation 
for  the  prevention  of  violent  conflicts,  for  the  pursuit 
of  peaceful  solutions  and  for  the  strengthening  and 
consolidation of mutual trust. Those are key factors for 
building a solid and lasting peace. 

We  all  yearn  for  a  better  world  in  which  peace 
and  security,  harmony  and  concord  reign,  a  world  in 
which  everyone’s  concern  is  to  combat  poverty,  fight 
against  epidemics  and  promote 
the  welfare  and 
prosperity of humankind. 

The proliferation of crises and the perpetuation of 
dissonant  positions,  rather  than  a  search  for  solutions 
to  the  many  problems  that  affect  all  humanity,  make 
this  dream  become  increasingly  difficult  to  achieve. 
Therefore,  strengthening  multilateralism  and  global 
governance  by  the  United  Nations 
is  of  critical 
importance. 
This session takes place in the year in which the 

United  Nations  family  recalls  the  fiftieth  anniversary 
of  the  physical  disappearance  of  Secretary-General 
Dag  Hammarskjöld.  It  is  also  25  years  since  the 
assassination,  by  apartheid,  of  our  late  President 
Samora  Moisés  Machel. Those  two  personalities  were 
lovers and defenders of peace, and they lost their lives 
when seeking peace for countries of our Mother Africa. 
In honour of those great names and all those who gave 
their lives to mediation and preventive diplomacy as a 
means for the peaceful settlement of disputes, let us all 
reaffirm  our  commitment  to  peace,  and  redouble  our 
commitment in support of initiatives aimed at building 
a world free of conflict. 

Mediation  should  be  seen  as  an  opportunity  to 
bring  together  the  parties  to  a  dispute,  reduce  their 
differences  and  appeal  to  conscience  so  that  together 
they  can  move  towards  mutually  acceptable  peaceful 
solutions.  Mediation  cannot  be  started  with 
the 
assumption that we have all the answers; the mediation 
process should be conducted in an objective, impartial 
and  neutral  manner,  ensuring  the  involvement  of 
stakeholders  at  all  stages  and  their  ownership  of  the 
process.  These  are  basic  principles  that  ensure  the 
continuity and consolidation of the process of national 
reconciliation and reconstruction, and, more important, 
the building of mutual trust. 

Aware  of  these  principles,  Mozambique  is  proud 
to  be  part  of  some  positive  experiences  in  different 
mediation processes in southern Africa and the African 
A/66/PV.13
relationship  with 
continent  as  a  whole.  We  have  thus  contributed  to 
helping other countries to return to the path leading to 
social and economic development. We therefore appeal 
for  appreciation  of  the  mediation  role  of  the  United 
Nations and regional and subregional organizations. 

The universality of the United Nations gives it a 
key role in promoting international peace and security 
by  resorting  to  peaceful  means  to  settle  disputes.  In 
this  sense,  the  Organization  is  once  again  called  upon 
to  assume  the  responsibility  entrusted  to  it  in  the 
Charter as a facilitator of mediation within the concert 
of nations, through its organs, in particular the Security 
Council and the General Assembly, as well as through 
the Peacebuilding Commission. 

We  praise  the  progress  made  by  the  United 
Nations,  whose  impact  on  prevention,  mitigation  and 
mediation of internal and inter-State conflicts has been 
positive.  These  achievements  can  be  consolidated  by 
strengthening  the  relationship  between  the  principal 
organs  of  the  United  Nations  with  a  mandate  to 
safeguard  international  peace  and  security,  as  well  as 
their 
regional  and  subregional 
organizations. 

We  reaffirm  our  recognition  of  the  role  of  the 
regional and subregional organizations as pillars in the 
promotion  and  maintenance  of  peace,  security  and 
stability  through  the  use  of  preventive  diplomacy  and 
early warning systems. 

The  African  experience  has  proved  that  the 
various  regional  and  subregional  mediation  initiatives 
have  been  effective 
in  preventing  and  managing 
conflicts  and  tensions,  and  in  maintaining  regional 
peace  and  stability.  In  this  context,  we  salute  the 
signature of the political road map leading to the return 
to  constitutional  order  in  Madagascar,  the  culmination 
of  a  negotiating  process,  mediated  by  the  Southern 
African  Development  Community,  which  started  in 
August 2009. 
The  United  Nations  remains  the  appropriate 

forum for addressing current challenges, including the 
peaceful  resolution  of  disputes.  However,  in  order  to 
assume  its  role  effectively,  our  Organization  must 
complete the ongoing reforms.  

In this sense, we reiterate the commitment of the 
Republic  of  Mozambique  to  continue  to  provide 
relevant  input  to  the  reform  process,  which  helps  the 
United Nations to become more proactive and effective 
11-50847 

9 
It 
is 
in 
the 
A/66/PV.13 

in  dealing  with  global  issues,  thus  contributing  to  the 
consolidation  of  its  credibility  and  legitimacy,  in  the 
interests of the peoples of the world. In this regard, we 
reiterate  our  interest  in  seeing  the  conclusion  of  the 
process of revitalization of the role and authority of the 
General  Assembly  as  a  more  representative  and 
legitimate body of the United Nations.  

this  Assembly,  where  we  are  all 
represented and where every vote counts, that the most 
important  decisions  on 
international  agenda, 
including  the  peaceful  and  negotiated  settlement  of 
disputes, should be taken and evaluated. Only a strong 
General  Assembly,  endowed  with 
the  necessary 
authority  and  competence  and  adequate  resources, 
would  be  up  to  these  responsibilities  and  current 
challenges. 

Another  important  component  of  reform  that 
continues  to  deserve  our  attention  is  the  Security 
Council.  This  body  should,  in  a  transparent,  inclusive 
and  democratic  manner,  follow  the  evolution  and 
dynamics  of  contemporary  global  challenges  and 
assume  its  vital  role  in  building  the  credibility  of  the 
United Nations as a universal entity. We are confident 
that  these  reforms  will  allow  greater  dialogue  and 
cooperation  between  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security  Council,  strengthening  the  relationship  with 
each  other  and  with  relevant  regional  and  subregional 
organizations. 

We  have  been  following  with  due  attention  the 
social  and  political  developments  in  North Africa  and 
the Middle East. We recognize that these developments 
pose  a  challenge  for 
the  countries  and  regions 
concerned  and  also  for  the  international  community. 
We  are  hopeful  that  the  processes  in  progress  will 
capitalize  on  opportunities  to  promote  peace,  expand 
freedoms,  promote  development  and  improve  living 
conditions. We  call  upon  all  relevant  actors  to  engage 
in  constructive  dialogue  and  work  for  peaceful 
solutions to ensure peace and stability. 

From  those  developments  we  have  learned  the 
lesson that internal dialogue, regional cooperation, and 
fairness  in  the  interventions  of  the  United  Nations 
should be privileged. 

We note with concern the lack of progress in the 
Israeli-Arab peace process. In this context, we urge the 
parties 
relaunching 
negotiations  that  are  translated  into  concrete  actions 
with  a  view  to  a  lasting,  comprehensive  and  fair 
themselves 
commit 
to 
to 

conflict solution. We reiterate our unequivocal support 
for the cause of the Palestinian people, who have been 
denied the inalienable right to self-determination. 

We  reaffirm  our  support  for  the  principle  of  the 
creation of two States, Palestine and Israel, coexisting 
peacefully  and  in  accordance  with  the  1967  borders. 
We  also  reiterate  our  support  for  the  commitment  of 
the  international  community  to  finding  a  sustainable 
solution in favour of the people of Western Sahara. We 
also  reiterate  our  support  for  their  legitimate  right  to 
self-determination. 

We take this opportunity to express our solidarity 
with  the  brotherly  peoples  of  Somalia,  Ethiopia  and 
Kenya,  plagued  by  severe  drought  and  famine.  We 
praise the efforts that the international community has 
made so far to alleviate the suffering and loss of life.  

Finally,  we  reaffirm  the  continued  engagement 
and  commitment  of  the  Republic  of  Mozambique  to 
peace, security and stability.  
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  thank  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Mozambique for the statement he has just made.  

Mr.  Armando  Emílio  Guebuza,  President  of  the 
Republic  of  Mozambique,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall.  


Address by Mr. Evo Morales Ayma, Constitutional 
President of the Plurinational State of Bolivia 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  hear 

an  address  by  the  Constitutional  President  of  the 
Plurinational State of Bolivia. 

Mr.  Evo  Morales Ayma,  Constitutional  President 
of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Evo  Morales  Ayma, 
Constitutional  President  of  the  Plurinational  State  of 
Bolivia, and to invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Morales  Ayma  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Being present at this forum is very important to express 
what we think, what we feel and what we work on, but 
it  is  also  important  to  express  major  differences 
between  Presidents  and  between  Governments,  our 
differences 
projects, 
programmes, 
policies, 
on 
10 

11-50847 
countries, 
underdeveloped 


principles  and  values  with  some  countries  in  this 
world. 

This  morning  we  heard  the  statements  of  some 
Presidents,  and  I  realized  that  there  are  enormous 
differences  between  the  so-called  small  countries, 
developing 
countries, 
compared  with  some  Powers.  For  example,  in  the 
debate  here  at  the  United  Nations  there  is  a  clear 
difference between the culture of life and the culture of 
death, between truth and falsehood and between peace 
and war. 

Of  course,  we  all  have  the  right  to  have  our 
differences. We have a right to deep differences about 
life,  but  I  believe  that  our  Organization,  the  United 
Nations,  has  a  duty  to  make  it  possible  to  align  the 
constant work of Governments to guarantee peace and 
the  equality  and  dignity  of  all  those  living  on  plant 
Earth. 
When  I  say  that  there  is  a  deep  difference 

between  the  culture  of  life  and  the  culture  of  death,  I 
feel  that  it  will  be  difficult  for  us  to  come  to  an 
understanding with economic policies that concentrate 
capital in the hands of a few. Data show that 1 per cent 
of  the  world’s  population  holds  50  per  cent  of  its 
wealth. If there are such deep differences, how can we 
resolve the problem of poverty? And if  we cannot put 
an end to poverty how can we guarantee lasting peace? 

Furthermore,  imperialism  seeks  to  control  the 
sources of energy throughout the world, and to that end 
it  has  instruments  to  impose,  control  and  constantly 
invade. And it is not just now; it has always been so. I 
remember  when  I  was  a  child  seeing  rebellions  of 
peoples against the capitalist system, against economic 
models  that  involved  the  permanent  pillaging  of  our 
natural  resources.  Left-leaning  union 
leaders  and 
political leaders were accused of being Communists in 
order  to  arrest  them.  There  was  military  intervention 
against  social  forces.  People  were  confined,  exiled, 
killed,  persecuted  and 
jailed,  accused  of  being 
socialists, Maoists, Leninists and Marxist-Leninists.  

I  feel  that  that  has  ended.  We  are  no  longer 
accused of being Marxists or Leninists, but now drug-
trafficking  and  terrorism  are  given  as  excuses.  In 
countries  with  many  natural  resources,  particularly 
related 
threatened  by  foreign 
intervention,  when  Presidents,  Governments  and 
peoples are not pro-capitalist or pro-imperialist.  
to  energy,  we  are 
11-50847 

A/66/PV.13

And then there is talk about a lasting peace. How 
can  there  be  a  lasting  peace  where  there  are  United 
States  military  bases?  How  can  there  be  lasting  peace 
when there are military interventions? 

I believe that our United Nations is subordinate to 
the  Security  Council.  What  is  the  use  of  the  United 
Nations 
if  a  group  of  countries  decides  on 
interventions,  on  killings?  It  is  a  Security  Council  for 
whom?  It 
is  a  Security  Council  for  Presidents, 
Governments,  peoples  who  are  pro-imperialist  or 
pro-capitalist.  But  it  is  the  Insecurity  Council  for 
Presidents,  peoples  or  Governments  who 
seek 
liberation  —  not  only  cultural  liberation,  but  also 
economic  liberation:  the  recovery  of  their  economic 
resources.  Those  are  the  deep  divisions  between  the 
Presidents  from  the  various  continents  who  are  taking 
part in our debates. 

If we want the Organization to have the authority 
to  see  that  its  resolutions  are  respected,  we  should 
think of founding afresh the United Nations. We cannot 
continue on the current footing. 

Why  do  I  say  that?  Every  year  at  the  United 
Nations, almost 100 per cent of the Member States — 
the  United  States  and  Israel  being  the  exceptions  — 
decide  that  the  economic  blockade  of  Cuba  should  be 
ended.  Who  ensures  that  that  decision  is  respected? 
The  Security  Council  will  never  ensure  that  such 
United  Nations  resolutions  are  respected;  the  United 
Nations  cannot  ensure  respect  for  that  decision  of  the 
whole world to lift the blockade against Cuba.  
I  cannot  understand  how  the  resolutions  of  an 

Organization  of  all  the  countries  of  the  world  are  not 
respected. What, then, is the United Nations? It is time 
for  an  in-depth  debate  on  founding  afresh  this  great 
Organization,  the  largest  in  the  world.  We  should 
debate its role so that the United Nations is recognized 
and  respected  by  the  peoples  of  the  world.  That  can 
happen  only  with  the  re-establishment  of  the  United 
Nations  as  a  body  which  fights  for  the  equality  of  all 
the  inhabitants  of  planet  Earth,  for  the  dignity  of  all 
those whom we represent at the United Nations. 

I  have  heard  a  number  of  interventions  about 
Palestine.  Of  course,  Palestine  has  our  full  support. 
Bolivia  not  only  supports  recognition  of  Palestine  at 
the  United  Nations,  but  also  wishes  to  welcome 
Palestine to the United Nations. Here I have a profound 
observation.  When  Israel  bombs,  attacks,  kills  and 
takes Palestinian land, there is no Security Council for 
11 
tries 
to  create 
the  empire 
A/66/PV.13 

that; there is no international organization that can stop 
those bombings and killings, the genocide in Palestine. 

When there was a coup d’état in Honduras, where 
were the military bases to defend a President elected by 
the Honduran people? Where was the Security Council 
or the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights to 
defend democracy in Honduras? 

It is time for us to think deeply about this. When 
there are anti-imperialist Presidents with anti-capitalist 
Governments, 
internal 
conflicts with what appear to be major confrontations, 
making  it  appear  in  the  media  that  a  certain  President 
should  fall,  or  it  tries  to  divide  a  country  to  justify 
intervention. 
When  there  was  a  coup  d’état  in  Honduras  and 

there  were  killings  in  Palestine,  where  was  NATO? 
Where  was  the  Security  Council? They  were  nowhere 
to be found. 

For those and many other reasons, it is important 
to think again about re-establishing the United Nations. 

How  can  we  Presidents  and  Governments  face 
our  responsibility  of  freeing  our  countries?  Let  me 
speak  of  some  important  aspects  of  my  experience  as 
President. 
resources  can  never  be 

to 
privatized.  They  can  never  be  handed  over 
transnational companies, whether they be minerals, oil 
or  other  natural  resources.  Before  I  became  President, 
hydrocarbons  were  in  the  hands  of  transnational 
companies. What did the contracts say? They declared 
that  the  owner  assumed  the  right  of  ownership  at  the 
mouth of the well. Governments told us that as long as 
the  resource  —  gas,  oil  —  was  underground  it 
belonged to all Bolivians, but the minute it came out of 
the  ground  it  belonged  instead  to  the  transnational 
companies.  In  the  contracts  they  concocted  the  idea 
that  the  contract  holder  acquired  ownership  at  the 
mouth of the well; as soon as the oil and gas came out 
of  the  ground  they  no  longer  belonged  to  Bolivians. 
That was a constant pillaging of our natural resources. 

On  1  May  2006,  we  nationalized  and  recovered 
our natural  resources through a supreme decree. From 
then  on  our  national  economy  began  to  change.  From 
then  on  Bolivia  stopped  being  a  beggar  State.  Before 
2006  —  I  say  this  very  sincerely  —  Bolivia  was  a 
small 
an 
First,  our  natural 
considered 
sometimes 
country 

underdeveloped  or  developing  country;  it  does  not 
matter what term is used.  

We  have  just  10  million  inhabitants.  Investment 
in  Bolivia  in  2005  was  only  $600  million,  and  more 
than  50  per  cent  of  it  was  credits  or  international 
cooperation.  Less  than  50  per  cent  consisted  of  our 
own  resources.  How  much  investment  has  there  been 
this year? The answer is $3.6 billion, with 20 per cent 
or  30  per  cent  of  that  being  through  international 
cooperation or credits, while almost 80 per cent is our 
own resources, thanks to our recovery of hydrocarbons, 
gas. How our economy has changed! 

From  1948  until  2005  Bolivia  never  had  a  fiscal 
surplus; it was in deficit. In our first year in charge — 
2006 — we achieved a fiscal surplus. We also created 
bonds  for  children  and  the  elderly.  We  started  to 
democratize  our  economy,  apart  from 
increasing 
investment.  For  the  180  years  after  Bolivia  was 
founded  in  1825,  what  international  reserves  did  we 
have  until  2005?  The  answer  is  $1.7  billion.  Over 
180 years, Governments of all kinds — liberal, military 
dictatorships,  neo-liberal  —  were  able  to  save  for 
Bolivia only $1.7 billion. In less than six years we have 
saved  over  $10  billion;  Bolivia  now  has  $11.7  billion 
in international reserves. 

In 2005, we were the next to last country in terms 
of  international  reserves.  Now  we  have  improved, 
thanks 
recovery  and  nationalization  of 
hydrocarbons.  Recovering  natural  resources,  having 
them  in  the  hands  of  the  State,  is  very  important  for 
improving  the  economy;  we  cannot  privatize  natural 
resources and hand them over to the transnationals.  
fine.  But 

companies  cannot  be 
the  owners  of  our  natural 
resources. The  State,  the  people,  must  be  the  owner.  I 
mention 
to  our 
decision, responding to the call of the Bolivian people, 
we started to change the national economy. 
I  have  a  second  point.  Basic  public  services  can 

never be provided by private businesses. I am speaking 
of water,  energy, electricity and the telephone service. 
This  morning,  someone  said 
the  prices  of 
agricultural products are rising by 25 per cent or 30 per 
cent  —  even  50  per  cent  in  some  cases  —  and  have 
been  doing  so  for  four  or  five  years.  Prices  are  going 
up  because  we  do  not  yet  control  agricultural 
production.  Since 
the  State  has  controlled  basic 
services  in  Bolivia,  electricity,  telephone  and  drinking 
We  can  have  partners.  That 
this  experience  because 
thanks 
that 
the 
to 
is 
12 

11-50847 


water  tariffs  have  not  risen,  because  they  are  basic. 
Public utilities must be the responsibility of the State, 
and not of the private sector. 

How can we allow water, the stuff of life, to be in 
private hands? I welcome the support we have received 
from  the  General  Assembly  for  water  to  be  a  human 
right  and  express  thanks  on  behalf  of  the  people  and 
Government  of  Bolivia.  It  is  our  responsibility  to 
implement  throughout  the  world  the  concept  of  water 
as  a  human  right,  thus  supporting  the  least  privileged 
when it comes to water. 

My  third  point  concerns  the  constant  struggle  of 
peoples  for  dignity  and  sovereignty.  In  Bolivia  I  too 
have to put up with a United States military base. And 
what  do  the  uniformed  United  States  outsiders  do? 
They  command  the  national  police  and  the  armed 
forces,  because  of  political  decisions  of  former 
Presidents,  those  who  preceded  me  in  the  Palacio 
Quemada,  as  it  is  known  in  some  sectors  of  society. 
The  Chimore  airport  could  not  be  used  without  the 
permission of the United States embassy. That woke us 
up  to  the  importance  of  defending  the  dignity  and 
sovereignty of our peoples.  

What  I  have  described  gave  rise  to  a  great 
movement,  not  only  social  and  cultural,  but  also 
electoral.  It  led  to  a  political  liberation  movement,  a 
movement to return dignity to all Bolivians, and to my 
attaining the presidency. 

When  I  became  President,  I  closed  the  military 
base. How is it possible in this new millennium, in the 
twenty-first  century,  for  there  still  to  be  foreign 
military bases all around the world? How is it possible 
for  there  still  to  be  interventions  decided  upon  by  the 
Security  Council?  That  situation 
to 
humanity,  an  attack on the  dignity of all the  countries 
of  the  world. That  is  why  we  must  develop  proposals 
for  the  United  Nations  that  will  make  it  possible  not 
only to free all the people living on this planet, but to 
restore dignity to them. 

My  fourth  point  concerns  international  financial 
institutions. I remember that when I was a union leader 
Governments  could  never  obtain  the  resources  for 
investment. We were told that Bolivia did not have the 
capacity to borrow. Bolivia did not have easy access to 
international  loans.  But  what  did  the  International 
Monetary  Fund  do?  It  made  loans  conditional.  It  told 
Governments  that  if  they  privatized  refineries  and 
threat 
is  a 
A/66/PV.13
When 
The 
if 
the 
told  me 
they  would  give  credits  of 
I  became  President,  one  of 
that 
telecommunications 
$30 million to $40 million. 

A  usurious  bank,  conditional  credits  and  credits 
requiring  security  are  no  solution.  No  credits  were 
given to States, or to the productive sector. They were 
all  for  services  and  trade. Above  all,  they  went  to  the 
transnationals. 
the 

transnational  oil  companies 
the 
Government  would  have  to  guarantee  a  credit  of 
$100 million to build a pipeline. I wondered about the 
purpose.  Finally,  the  oil  company,  Transredes,  was 
conspiring  politically,  and  we  therefore  decided  to 
nationalize  its  properties  —  oil  and  gas  pipelines. We 
expelled it. Then we began to invest through the State 
company,  Yacimientos,  without  borrowing  a  single 
dollar,  and  the  Carrasco  Cochabamba  pipeline  is  now 
under  construction.  But 
transnational  had 
continued  to  be  responsible,  we  would  certainly  have 
had to guarantee a loan for it. 

As  the  Assembly  is  aware,  I  come  from  the 
indigenous peasant movement. When our families talk 
about a company, they think of it as something that has 
a  lot  of  money  and  is  made  up  of  millionaires.  So  I 
could  not  understand  how  a  company  could  ask  the 
Government to lend it money for an investment. 
institutions  deal 

through  companies,  but  who  has  to  pay?  It  is  the 
peoples,  the  States.  So  we  must  create  other  financial 
institutions. Fortunately, we are making good progress 
in  South  America.  The  Bank  of  the  South  will  be 
completely  different  from  the  usurious  banks  that 
feather  their  own  nests  and  make  money  through 
speculation.  That  must  end.  Regional  integration  will 
free us from the domination of those banks. 

It  is  important  for  us  to  go  further  in  that 
integration.  In  Bolivia  we  have  barriers  to  overcome, 
and  other  countries  of  the  Union  of  South  American 
Nations (UNASUR) also have problems. For example, 
we have a historic demand upon Chile for a sovereign 
corridor to the Pacific. We decided to have recourse to 
international 
that  access. 
Resolution  37/10  of  15  November  1982  establishes  in 
its  annex,  the  Manila  Declaration  on  the  Peaceful 
Settlement  of  International  Disputes,  that  recourse  to 
an  international  tribunal  to  settle  disputes  between 
States should not be considered an unfriendly act. 
international 
financial 
tribunals 
to  ask 
for 
11-50847 

13 

A/66/PV.13 


Bolivia  has  right  and  reason  on  its  side  in  going 
to  an  international  tribunal,  because  our  landlocked 
state  results  from  an  unjust  war,  an  invasion.  For 
Bolivia,  calling  for  a  solution  in  the  international 
sphere means for Bolivia redressing a historic injustice. 

Bolivia  is  a  friendly,  peaceful  State  which  gives 
priority  to  dialogue  with  its  neighbours.  We  therefore 
keep open channels for bilateral negotiation with Chile, 
without,  however,  renouncing  the  right  to  go  to  an 
international  court.  There  is  regional  involvement  as 
well, since this is not just a bilateral problem, but is a 
regional problem as well. 

Peoples  are  not  responsible  for  the  landlocked 
state  of  Bolivia. Those  responsible  are,  as  always,  the 
oligarchies,  the  transnationals,  which  wish  to  protect 
their  access  to  natural  resources. The  1904 Treaty  did 
not lead to either peace or friendship, because for more 
than  a  century  Bolivia  had  no  access  to  a  sovereign 
port  of  its  own.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  call  on  the 
United  Nations,  other  international  organizations  and 
especially  the  region  to  support  us,  so  that  we  can 
return with sovereignty to the Pacific Ocean. 
is  another  movement  of 

countries  taking  place,  that  of  the  countries  of  Latin 
America  with  the  Caribbean.  I  would  say  that  it  is  a 
new  Organization  of  American  States,  without  the 
United States, in order to free us of certain impositions, 
with  the  benefit  of  our  experience  in  UNASUR.  I  say 
that because we no longer find ourselves obliged, when 
there  are  conflicts  between  countries  and  within 
democracies,  to  have  somebody  coming  from  outside 
and  above 
to  re-establish  order.  Presidents  and 
Governments meet to resolve internal problems. This is 
a great liberation for us. 
I also take this opportunity to touch on a central 

topic:  the  fight  against  drug  trafficking.  United  States 
imperialism  is  using  the  war  on  drugs  for  political 
ends.  The  United  States  Drug  Enforcement 
Administration (DEA) in Bolivia was not fighting drug 
trafficking; it was controlling it for political purposes. 
The DEA would implicate union leaders or anti-imperialist 
political leaders.  
Many politicians have been saved from that dirty 

work  of  the  empire  in  attempting  to  implicate  us  in 
drug  trafficking,  which  still  goes  on.  Last  week  some 
parts  of  the  United  States  media  said  that  my  aircraft 
had  been  detained  in  the  United  States  with  traces  of 
cocaine.  How  false!  They  are  trying  to  confuse  the 
In  addition, 
there 
to  grow.  Why 
people, trying to conduct a dirty campaign against my 
Government and against the State of Bolivia. 

What  does  the  United  States  do?  It  decertifies 
Bolivia  and  Venezuela.  What  moral  authority  does  it 
have  to  certify  or  decertify  nations  of  Latin America, 
when  the  United  States  is  the  world’s  leading  drug 
consumer, when the United States is one of the world’s 
producers  of  marijuana  —  in  some  years  the  biggest? 
What authority does it have to certify or decertify any 
country?  This  is  another  way  of  trying  to  scare 
countries or punish them. 

However,  Bolivia,  very  responsibly,  continues  to 
fight drug trafficking. A report by the State Department 
recognizes  that  there  has  been  a  net  reduction  in  coca 
cultivation,  with  improved  interdiction.  Where  is  the 
market?  The  market  is  what  drives  drug  trafficking, 
and the market is here. Who is decertifying the United 
States  because  it  has  not  cut  down  the  market?  This 
morning  President  Calderón  of  Mexico  said  that  the 
drug  market  continues 
is  no 
responsibility  taken  for  eliminating  the  market?  As 
long  as  there  is  a  market  coca  leaves  and  other 
products will be turned into drugs. 

A great responsibility must be borne. Here I make 
an appeal. Let us fight with shared responsibility. Why 
do  we  not  put  an  end  to  banking  confidentiality?  The 
biggest drug traffickers put their millions of dollars not 
in  briefcases  or  backpacks  but  in  the  banks.  Why  is 
there  fear  of  banking  secrecy?  In  Bolivia  we  are  not 
afraid.  Banking  confidentiality  must  be  ended  if  we 
want to fight drug trafficking head on. 
One  of  the  crises  on  the  margin  of  the  crisis  of 

capitalism 
international 
financial  structures  give  opportunities  to  people  with 
low 
to  small 
producers. We have some experience in Bolivia, where 
credits at zero interest have been given to producers of 
rice,  wheat,  corn  and  soy  at  zero  interest.  Food 
producers can even pay their debts with their products. 
Soft credits are given to encourage food production. 

Yet  the  international  banks  never  take  the  small 
producer  into  account;  they  never  pay  any  heed  to 
cooperatives,  to  associations,  which  can  very  well 
contribute if given the chance. 

There  are  new  ways  to  encourage  production 
through  fair  trade.  We  have  to  put  an  end  to  the 
so-called  competitive  market.  In  a  competition  who 
incomes  by  providing  microcredits 
the  food  crisis.  New 
is 
14 

11-50847 


wins?  It  is  the  most  powerful,  those  with  the  greatest 
advantages.  Transnational  companies  are  always  the 
winners.  The  losers  are  the  small  producers,  families 
wanting  to  rise  through  their  own  efforts.  Therefore, 
we  are  trying  in  the  region  to  implement  policies  of 
complementarity and solidarity, and not of competition. 
With naked competition we shall never be able to solve 
the problem of poverty. 

Finally on this matter, the crisis of capitalism has 
no  exit.  When  I  was  a  young  boy  much  mention  was 
made of the foreign debt of poor countries. It was said 
that  it  could  never  be  paid.  Now  the  situation  is  quite 
the opposite: the debts of the poor countries can easily 
be  settled,  but  the  crisis  of  capitalism  is  a  bottomless 
hole.  The  crisis  of  capitalism  is  not  just  because  of 
circumstances; it is structural. 

What  do  capitalist  or  imperialist  countries  do? 
They seek any pretext to invade a country and make off 
with  its  natural  resources.  This  morning  the  President 
of the United States said that Iraq was already free and 
would  govern  itself. The  Iraqis  will  be  able  to  govern 
themselves,  of  course,  but  in  whose  hands  is  the  oil 
now?  

The  fall  of  autocracy  in  Libya  was  hailed,  and 
now there is democracy, but in whose hands is Libyan 
oil?  The  world  and  the  Libyans  have  come  to  realize 
that reason for the invasion and the bombings was not 
to  bring  about  the  fall  of  Al-Qadhafi  by  rebels  but  a 
desire  for  Libyan  oil.  Next  year  we  can  review  the 
situation  and  see  which  countries  have  their  hands  on 
Libyan oil.  

There  is  a  desire  to  overcome  the  crisis  of 
capitalism  by  making  off  with  our  oil,  gas  and  other 
natural 
the  great 
responsibility of defending the rights of Mother Earth. 
I continue to be convinced that the best way to defend 
human rights is to defend the rights of Mother Earth. 

Here  we  have  the  great  responsibility  of  looking 
after the rights of Mother Earth. Only 60 years ago the 
Assembly adopted the Universal Declaration of Human 
Rights;  it  was  only  60  years  ago  that  the  United 
Nations  realized  that  the  human  being  also  has  rights. 
After  political  rights,  economic  rights,  the  rights  of 
indigenous  peoples,  now  we  have 
the  enormous 
responsibility of defending the rights of Mother Earth. 

We  are  also  convinced  that  infinite  growth  on  a 
finite planet is unsustainable and impossible. The limit 
resources.  But  we  also  have 
A/66/PV.13
to  growth  is  the  regenerative  capacity  of  the  planet’s 
ecosystems. We therefore call for a new 10 commandments 
concerning  social  demands,  financial  systems,  natural 
resources,  basic  services,  production,  and  dignity  and 
sovereignty.  On  that  basis  we  should  begin  to  re-
establish  the  United  Nations  so  that  it  can  be  the 
highest  instance  to  settle  issues  of  peace,  poverty, 
dignity and sovereignty. 

I hope that my experience as President of Bolivia 
will be useful to all those present. At the same time, I 
come  to  learn  from  many  of  them  so  that  I  may 
continue  working  for  the  equality  and  dignity  of  the 
Bolivian people. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  thank  the  Constitutional  President  of  the 
Plurinational  State of Bolivia for the  statement he has 
just made. 

Mr.  Evo  Morales Ayma,  Constitutional  President 
of the Plurinational State of Bolivia, was escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall. 


Address by Mr. Danilo Türk, President of the 
Republic of Slovenia 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  hear 

an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Slovenia. 

Mr.  Danilo  Türk,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Slovenia, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Danilo Türk,  President  of 
the Republic of Slovenia, and to invite him to address 
the Assembly. 
I  start  by  congratulating 

Mr. Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser,  President  of 
the 
General  Assembly  at  its  current  session,  on  his 
election,  and  express  our  belief  that  with  his  wisdom 
and experience he will guide the Assembly well. 

I  also  express  our  sincere  gratitude  to  the 
outgoing President, Mr. Joseph Deiss, for his important 
contribution to the work of the General Assembly and 
the United Nations. 

Obviously,  I  wish  to  pay  special  tribute  to  the 
Secretary-General, Mr. Ban Ki-moon, and to thank him 
for the vision and dedication with which he works for 
President  Türk: 
11-50847 

15 

A/66/PV.13 

the  United  Nations  and  for  his  tireless  efforts  to 
promote the spirit of the Charter. We deeply appreciate 
his  leadership  and  wish  him  continued  success  in  his 
second term in office as he guides the United Nations 
in these challenging times. 
Slovenia welcomes the President’s decision to put 

the 
theme  of  mediation  at 
the  centre  of  our 
deliberations  at  this  session.  Indeed,  no  other  theme 
seems  more  timely  at  this  moment  of  search  for  an 
approach  towards  a  peaceful  resolution  of  the  Israeli-
Palestinian  conflict.  The  European  Union,  to  which 
Slovenia belongs, is currently fully engaged with high-
profile mediation in this context. The mediation under 
way has two aims. 

The first is the revival of the peace process with a 
view to finding an early solution — a genuine and fair 
peace  agreement  involving  two  States,  Israel  and 
Palestine,  which  would  live  side  by  side  in  peace  and 
security.  Secondly,  an  immediate  task  relevant  to  the 
United  Nations  is  to  find  an  adequate  status  for 
Palestine  within  the  ranks  of  our  common,  global 
Organization.  Those  two  aims  are  genuinely  linked, 
and  the  latter  should  be  understood  as  supporting  the 
former. 
Our common Organization, the United Nations, is 

committed 
the 
universality  of  its  membership.  This  is  the  spirit  in 
which we see some of the significant developments of 
this year.  
We welcome the Republic of South Sudan as the 

the  United  Nations.  Our 
newest  Member  of 
Organization should render every assistance to the new 
Member  in  its  efforts  to  establish  its  structures  and  to 
serve the wellbeing of its people. 
We  also  welcome  the  decision  of  the  General 

Assembly 
the 
representatives of the National Transitional Council of 
Libya.  This  has  established  a  much  needed  link 
between the United Nations and the people of Libya in 
legitimate,  democratic  and 
their  effort 
the  path  of 
effective 
economic, 
in 
accordance with the wishes of the people.  

Yesterday,  at  a  special  High-level  Meeting  we 
discussed the forms of assistance in some detail. Today 
we  can  say  that  there  is  a  fair  chance  of  success  for 
effective cooperation between the people of Libya and 
social  and  political  development, 
inclusive  character  and 
the  seat  of  Libya 
institutions  and 
to  pursue 
to  grant 
to  build 
its 
to 
to 
the 
important  and 
long-term  and 
the  most  difficult 
the  United  Nations  as  well  as 
regional 
organizations  —  in  particular,  the  African  Union  and 
the  Arab  League.  Together  we  shall  be  better  able  to 
assist. Slovenia is willing to continue to do its part  in 
this framework. 

Political  and  security  concerns  are  always  an 
important  priority  for  the  United  Nations.  But  they 
have to be considered against the background of other 
priorities,  both 
short-term.  The 
Organization  has  developed  its  engagements  in  the 
most 
issues  of 
environment and sustainable development. We need to 
take resolute steps towards a new and effective system 
to mitigate the effects of climate change and ensure the 
necessary adaptation.  

We hope that the Conference of the Parties to the 
United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate 
Change, to be held in Durban later this year, will bring 
us  a  step  closer  to  final  agreement.  The  negative 
impacts  of  climate  change  are  disproportionate.  We 
should pay particular attention to the unique challenges 
faced  by  the  small  island  developing  States,  whose 
characteristics  make  them  among  the  most  vulnerable 
in the world to climate change. 

The  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development,  to  be  held  next  year,  will  be  an 
opportunity to secure renewed political commitment to 
sustainable  development,  to  assess  the  progress  of 
implementation of agreed commitments, and to address 
new  and  emerging  challenges.  We  should  strengthen 
our  efforts  to  develop  a  new  concept  of  development 
that will capture economic growth, social development 
and environmental protection. It is our duty to make a 
difference,  and  making  a  difference  requires  a  more 
comprehensive definition of development. 

successful 
the 
implementation of the Millennium Development Goals, 
we should pay particular attention to the special needs 
of Africa, especially those countries most in need. The 
Istanbul Programme of Action offers concrete solutions 
for 
least  developed 
countries. 
the  donor 

countries,  which 
continue  unabated, 
increasing aid proves difficult to attain. Improving aid 
effectiveness is crucial.  
times  of  economic  crisis 
improving  progress 
Maintaining  our 
focus  on 
seems 
the 
In 
in 
to 
in 
16 

11-50847 



There can be no gain in the field of development 
if  other  policies,  such  as  trade,  agriculture,  migration, 
climate  change  and  so  on,  cancel  out  the  positive 
effects  of  development  policies.  In  this  regard,  let  me 
convey  our  hopes  for  the  successful  deliberations  of 
the  High-level  Forum  to  be  held  in  Busan  later  this 
year. 

Recent experience in the exercise of development 
activities  has  strengthened  understanding  of  the  links 
between  development  and  human  rights.  The  concept 
of the right to development is gaining in substance and 
recognition.  Moreover,  specific  development 
tasks 
have  provided  further  evidence  of  the  importance  of 
this  link.  The  role  of  women  in  development  is  a 
pertinent  example.  Experience  and  research  by  the 
Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United 
Nations,  for  example,  have  shown  that  empowerment 
of  women  in  agriculture  can  reduce  hunger  by  30  per 
cent — a very impressive result by any measure.  

Gender equality and the empowerment of women 
are essential to promoting peace, security and above all 
development.  Slovenia  strongly  supports  the  work  of 
UN-Women,  which  will  help  to  significantly  boost 
United  Nations  efforts  to  promote  gender  equality, 
expand opportunities and tackle discrimination against 
women around the globe. 

Another priority in the field of human rights that 
Slovenia values highly relates to the rights of the child 
and to human rights education. This year, as President 
of  the  Executive  Board  of  UNICEF,  Slovenia  worked 
tirelessly 
to  attain  universal  ratification  of  both 
optional  protocols  to  the  Convention  on  the  Rights  of 
the  Child.  The  objective  should  be  to  ensure,  through 
United  Nations 
instruments  and  national  action, 
effective  protection  of  the  rights  of  the  child  and  to 
improve  the  wellbeing  of  children  in  all  parts  of  the 
world. 

An  important  segment  of  this  work  relates  to 
human  rights  education,  which  helps  to  empower 
young  people  in  their  efforts  to  secure  their  rightful 
place in society. I remember when Slovenia and Costa 
Rica  launched  a  human  rights  education  campaign  in 
the  Third  Committee  almost  20  years  ago.  It  is 
gratifying 
rights  are 
to  see 
increasingly  being 
school 
curriculums. But there is still much more that we need 
to  do  to  incorporate  human  rights 
learning  into 
societies as a lifelong process. The United Nations, its 
that 
included 
today  human 
in  official 
A/66/PV.13
this 
rights.  All  actors  of 
important  declaration,  which 
Human Rights Council and the General Assembly will, 
I  am  convinced,  continue  to  make  a  significant 
contribution.  

I  would  like  to  express  satisfaction  over  the 
adoption  of  the  draft  declaration  on  human  rights 
education  and  training  by  the  Human  Rights  Council 
during its March session this year. I call on all States to 
support 
I  am 
convinced 
the  General  Assembly  will  adopt  — 
hopefully, unanimously — later this autumn. 
Human rights concerns are most tragic in the case 

of  humanitarian  disasters.  The  current  famine  in  the 
Horn of Africa is a sad example. It is a crisis of human 
existence  and  human 
the 
international  community, 
including  my  country, 
Slovenia,  are  already  trying  to  help.  But  more  help  is 
needed; humanitarian assistance must expand. 

I have briefly referred to some of Slovenia’s areas 
of  particular  importance,  particular  engagement  and 
particular  activity.  Our  commitment  to  the  United 
Nations is strong and will remain strong.  

The United Nations is an Organization of all and 
for  all.  For  almost  20  years  now  Slovenia  has  been 
working  as  a  devoted  Member  State.  We  have  made 
proposals for specific action and enjoyed working with 
all  other  Member  States  — 
large  and  small, 
geographically  close  and  geographically  distant.  We 
have  worked 
together  on  specific  proposals  and 
decisions and on implementation. 

We  have  also  proposed  a  set  of  ideas  for  reform 
of the Security Council. We hope that the coming year 
will  see  more  resolute  steps  in  that  regard,  and  that 
more progress will be made than there has been so far. 

The  United  Nations  is  an  important  hope  —  a 
hope  for  the  world  —  and  an  opportunity  for  its 
Member  States  to  bring  the  reality,  complicated  and 
onerous as it may be, closer to our hopes. It is in this 
spirit that Slovenia has presented its candidature for  a 
non-permanent  seat  on  the  Security  Council. We  hope 
for broad support.  

If  we  are  elected  we  shall  be  a  faithful  United 
Nations Member State, aware of the responsibilities of 
the  Security  Council  and  all  its  members  towards  the 
entire Organization and all Member States. We pledge 
our efforts, our judgement and our sense of fairness as 
a contribution to the United Nations. And fairness is a 
11-50847 

17 
A/66/PV.13 

commodity,  a  principle,  a  value,  that  the  international 
community needs most of all. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  thank  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Slovenia for his statement. 



Mr.  Danilo  Türk,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Slovenia,  was  escorted 
the  General 
Assembly Hall. 
  The meeting rose at 8.05 p.m. 
from 
18 

11-50847 
