
A/66/PV.47
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

47th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 1 November 2011, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 








  In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Thomson 
(Fiji), Vice-President, took the Chair. 
  The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m. 

Agenda item 115 (continued)
Appointments to fill vacancies in subsidiary organs 
and other appointments 
  (g)  Appointment of members of the Joint 



Inspection Unit 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/66/509) 

The Acting  President: A  note  by  the  Secretary-

General,  which  has  been  circulated  as  document 
A/66/509,  informs  of  the  resignation  of  Inspector 
Enrique  Román-Morey  of  Peru,  effective  as  of 
31 October  2011. 
Inspector  Román-Morey  was 
appointed by the General Assembly on 9 October 2007 
for  a  five-year  term  of  office,  beginning  on  1  January 
2008  and  expiring  on  31  December  2012. 
In 
accordance with article 4, paragraph 5, of the statute of 
the  Joint  Inspection  Unit,  the  Chairperson  of  the  Unit 
notified the Secretary-General, on 6 September, of the 
vacancy  and  of  his  decision  to  waive  the  requirement 
of six months’ notice, stipulated in article 4, paragraph 
3,  of  the  statute.  As  a  result  of  the  resignation  of 
Inspector  Enrique  Román-Morey  of  Peru,  the  General 
Assembly is required, during the sixty-sixth session, to 
appoint  a  member  to  fill  the  vacancy  in  the  Joint 
Inspection Unit. 

It  is  further  stated  in  the  note  of  the  Secretary-
General  that,  in  order  for  consultations  to  be  held  as 
stipulated  in  article  3,  and  to  align  the  term  of  office 
with  that  of  the  other  inspectors,  the  Assembly  may 
wish to consider filling the vacancy for a term of office 
beginning  on  1  January  2012  and  expiring  on 
31 December 2016. 

In that connection, may I take it that it is the wish 
of the General Assembly to fill this vacancy for a term 
of office beginning on 1 January 2012 and expiring on 
31 December 2016? 
It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President:  As  also  indicated  in 

document  A/66/509,  in  accordance  with  article  3, 
paragraph 1, of the statute of the Joint Inspection Unit, 
the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  shall  consult 
with Member States to draw up a list of countries — in 
this  case,  one  country  —  that  would  be  requested  to 
propose  a  candidate  for  appointment  to  the  Joint 
Inspection Unit. 

the  necessary  consultations,  I 
should  like  to  communicate  to  the Assembly  that  five 
countries,  namely,  the  Plurinational  State  of  Bolivia, 
Haiti,  Honduras,  Mexico  and  Peru,  have  decided  to 
present  their  candidatures  for  the  one  vacancy  from 
among the Latin American and Caribbean States. 

Since,  from  among  the  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean States, there is no single endorsed candidate 
for the one vacancy, I should like, in accordance with 
past  practice,  to  consult  with  Member  States  through 
After  holding 



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-57402 (E) 
*1157402* 


A/66/PV.47 

the  procedure  of  holding  an  advisory  vote  by  secret 
ballots,  to  select  one  country  from  among  the  Latin 
American  and  Caribbean  States  to  be  requested  to 
propose  a  candidate  for  appointment  to  the  Joint 
Inspection Unit. 

Although this advisory vote is not an election, we 
shall  follow  the  rules  of  procedure  of  the  Assembly 
governing  elections.  If  there  is  no  objection,  I  shall 
take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  agrees  to  that 
procedure? 
It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President:  In  accordance  with 

existing  practice,  the  country  receiving  the  greatest 
number  of  votes,  and  not  less  than  a  majority  of  the 
votes of those present and voting, shall be the country 
selected to propose a candidate for appointment to the 
Joint Inspection Unit. 

Also,  consistent  with  past  practice,  in  the  event 
that,  owing  to  a  tie  vote,  it  becomes  necessary  to 
determine  the  candidate  to  be  elected,  there  will  be  a 
special restricted ballot limited to those candidates who 
have obtained an equal number of votes. 

agrees to those procedures? 
It was so decided. 

The  Acting  President:  May  I  remind  members 

that  the  Assembly  is  not  appointing  members  to  the 
Joint  Inspection  Unit  at  this  time.  It  is  only  selecting 
one  country,  which  will  be  requested  to  propose  a 
candidate. Therefore,  only  the  name  of  a  country,  and 
not  the  name  of  an  individual,  should  appear  on  the 
ballot paper.  
The Assembly  will  now  proceed  to  the  selection 

of  one  country  from  among  the  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean States, which will be requested to propose a 
candidate  to  fill  the  vacancy  in  the  Joint  Inspection 
Unit. 

Before we begin the voting process, I should like 
to  remind  members  that,  pursuant  to  rule  88  of  the 
rules  of  procedure  of  the  General  Assembly,  no 
representative  shall  interrupt  the  voting  except  on  a 
point of order on the actual conduct of the voting. 

We shall now begin the voting process. Members 
are  requested  to  remain  seated  until  all  ballots  have 
been collected. 
May  I  also  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly 



Ballot  papers  will  now  be  distributed.  May  I 
request representatives to write on the ballot paper the 
name  of  the  one  State  for  which  they  wish  to  vote. 
Ballot  papers  containing  more  than  one  name  will  be 
declared invalid. If a ballot paper contains the name of 
a  Member  State  that  does  not  belong  to  the  Latin 
American and Caribbean region, that ballot paper will 
be declared invalid. Ballot papers bearing the name of 
an individual will not be counted at all. 

At the invitation of the President, Ms. Anna Ruski 
(Bulgaria),  Mr.  Juan  Pablo  Espinoza  (Chile), 
Ms. Anna  Reich  (Hungary),  Mr.  Amin  Javed 
Faizal (Maldives), Mrs. Jamila Alaoui (Morocco) 
and Ms. Caroline Payne (United Kingdom) acted 
as tellers. 
A vote was taken by secret ballot. 
The  meeting  was  suspended  at  3.25  p.m.  and 
resumed at 3.50 p.m. 
The Acting President: The result of the voting is 



as follows: 

















175 
2 
173 
0 
173 
87 

Honduras   


Haiti  

Peru   

Mexico 


Plurinational State of Bolivia 
Latin American and Caribbean States

Number of ballot papers: 
Number of invalid ballots:   

Number of valid ballots: 
Abstentions: 

Number of members voting  
Required majority: 

Number of votes obtained: 
107 

26 

17 

12 


11 
Having  obtained  the  required  majority  and  the 
greatest number of votes, Honduras was selected 
to  propose  a  candidate  for  appointment  to  the 
Joint Inspection Unit. 
The Acting President: In accordance with article 

3,  paragraph  1,  of  the  statute  of  the  Joint  Inspection 
Unit, Honduras will be requested to submit the name of 
a candidate and his or her curriculum vitae highlighting 
the  candidate’s  relevant  qualifications  for  the  tasks 
ahead. 

in 
accordance  with  resolution  59/267,  of  23  December 
2004, the candidate should have experience in at least 
to  remind  members 
I  would 
that, 
like 
2 

11-57402 
the 
following 
After  holding 


one  of 
fields:  oversight,  audit, 
inspection,  investigation,  evaluation,  finance,  project 
evaluation,  programme  evaluation,  human  resources 
management,  management,  public  administration, 
monitoring and/or programme performance, as well as 
knowledge of the United Nations system and its role in 
international relations. 

the  appropriate  consultations 
described in article 3, paragraph 2, of the statute of the 
Joint Inspection Unit, including consultations with the 
President of the Economic and Social Council and with 
the  Secretary-General  in  his  capacity  as  Chairman  of 
the United Nations System Chief Executives Board for 
Coordination,  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
will propose the name of the candidate to the Assembly 
for appointment to the Joint Inspection Unit. 

consideration of sub-item (g) of agenda item 115. 
this  stage  of  our 
thus  concluded 
We  have 





Agenda item 75 (continued)
Report of the International Criminal Court 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/66/309) 

  Report of the Secretary-General (A/66/333) 

The Acting  President:  Members  will  recall  that 

the  General  Assembly  considered  this  item  at  its 
44th plenary  meeting  on  26  October  2011.  We  shall 
now hear the remaining speakers. 
Mr.  Silva  (Brazil):  I  join  others  in  thanking  the 

President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC), 
Judge  Sang-Hyun  Song,  for  his  statement  last  week 
(see  A/66/PV.44)  and  for  the  presentation  of  the 
seventh  report  of  the  Court  to  the  General  Assembly 
(see A/66/309). I commend him and the other judges of 
the  Court  on  their  decisive  role  in  contributing  to  the 
rule of law and to the cause of justice. We are proud to 
have  contributed  to  this  process  through  the  work  of 
Judge Sylvia Steiner, a Brazilian national. 

the 
development  of  international  law  provided  by  the 
Rome  Statute,  which  established  the  first  permanent, 
treaty-based court to try individuals accused of having 
committed  the  most  serious  crimes  of  international 
concern.  The  independence  of  such  an  important 
judicial institution is the foundation of its legitimacy in 
bringing  accused  persons  to  justice,  with  fairness  and 
with  full  respect  for  their  rights.  Brazil  believes  that 
attaches  great 
importance 
Brazil 
to 
A/66/PV.47
always  been 
supporters  of 
that  more  States, 
the  values  enshrined  in  the  preamble  of  the  Rome 
Statute  are  truly  universal  in  nature.  That  is  why  we 
have 
the  Court’s 
universality.  

In  that  regard,  we  note  with  satisfaction  that, 
during  the  period  covered  by  the  report,  Grenada,  the 
Republic  of  Moldova,  Saint  Lucia,  Seychelles  and 
Tunisia  deposited  their  instruments  of  ratification  or 
accession. Since that time, Tunisia, Maldives and Cape 
Verde,  a  member  of  the  Community  of  Portuguese-
speaking Countries, have joined the Court, bringing the 
total  number  of  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  to 
119  countries.  We  warmly  welcome  all  of  them.  We 
hope 
large  and  small,  on  all 
continents,  will  ratify  the  Rome  Statute  in  the  near 
future.  In  South  America,  as  is  well  known,  all 
countries  are  parties  to  the  ICC  and  are  strong 
supporters  of  the  Court’s  contribution  to  the  cause  of 
international justice. 

The  period  covered  by  the  report  shows  that  the 
Court  is  currently  facing  an  unprecedented  workload. 
The ICC is now seized of seven open situations, given 
the fact that Pre-Trial Chamber III recently authorized 
yet  another  investigation.  The  number  of  individuals 
subject to proceedings before the Court increased from 
15 to 25 persons. In that context, it is important that the 
Court be granted all the necessary means for the timely 
discharge of its judicial functions. 

Brazil  continues  to  stress  the  importance  of 
cooperation  between  the  International  Criminal  Court 
and 
the  United  Nations.  We  attach  particular 
importance  to  efforts  aimed  at  reinforcing  rule  of  law 
activities,  such  as  those  that  support  the  domestic 
capacity  of  States  to  prosecute  serious  crimes.  States 
have  a  sovereign  responsibility  to  deliver  justice  and 
promote  law  enforcement.  They  must  be  supported  in 
their  efforts  to  reinforce  their  national  institutions,  so 
that the Court can function as a court of last resort. 

The  next  Assembly  of  States  Parties  will  be 
particularly busy, as elections will be involved. In less 
than  two  months,  that  Assembly  will  elect  six  new 
judges and a new prosecutor. Brazil wishes them every 
success in the discharge of their duties. I would like to 
express,  once  again,  Brazil’s  full  support  to  the  ICC 
and our appreciation to President Sang-Hyun Song. 
Mr.  Kamau  (Kenya):  Kenya  wishes  to  align 

itself  with  the  statement  made  by  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  the  United  Republic  of Tanzania  on 
11-57402 

3 

A/66/PV.47 

behalf  of  the  African  States  Parties  to  the  Rome 
Statute. 

My  delegation  appreciates  the  report  of  the 
International Criminal Court (ICC) on its activities for 
the period 2010-2011 (see A/66/309), which highlights 
some  of  the  developments  since  the  previous  report 
(see A/65/313). We note the increased workload of the 
Court  and  the  concomitant  challenges,  which  call  for 
increased  efforts  to  ensure  that  the  Court  remains 
effective in the execution of its mandate. We commend 
the President of the Court, Judge Sang-Hyun Song, for 
his  leadership  in  steering  the  Court  towards  realizing 
the objectives for which it was established. 

In that regard, Kenya believes that the Court has 
indeed staked out an important role for itself in helping 
the  world  fight  impunity  for  perpetrators  of  the  crime 
of  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity,  war  crimes  and 
the crimes of aggression. 
Kenya remains committed to its obligations under 

the Rome Statute and under the rule of law and natural 
justice.  Furthermore,  the  Government  of  Kenya  has 
continued  to  cooperate  with  the  Court,  as  well  as  to 
facilitate  its  work.  Most  recently,  the  Court  opened  a 
liaison  office  in  Kenya,  and  the  Government  has 
granted 
its  officers,  full 
diplomatic privileges and immunities. 
As  we  facilitate  the  Court’s  work  in  Kenya,  we 

are  of  course  deeply  aware  that  it  is  the  primary 
criminal 
responsibility 
jurisdiction  over 
crimes 
committed in Kenya, including during the post-election 
violence  of  2008.  The  Government  has  made 
commendable  progress  in  the  process  of  investigating 
and  prosecuting  all  those  suspected  of  involvement  in 
the post-election violence. Indeed, under Kenya’s new 
Constitution,  extensive  reforms  within  the  justice 
system  have  been  undertaken  to  ensure  the  fair  and 
transparent  administration  of  justice  for  all.  Some  of 
those  reforms  include  the  appointment  of  a  new  chief 
justice, attorney general and deputy chief justice, along 
with the first-ever Supreme Court judges, 28 new high 
court 
a  new  director  of  public 
prosecutions —  all  of  whom  were  recruited  through  a 
rigorous  and  transparent  public  recruitment  process. 
The  systematic  restructuring  of  the  police  force  is 
ongoing  and  will  receive  its  final  form  under  the 
national  police  service  bill  of  2011,  once  it  becomes 
law. 
that  office,  along  with 
of  Kenya 
responsible 
exercise 
judges 
those 
and 
for 
to 
ensure 
an 
to 
they  wish 
imperative  of 
also 
improved 
and  Parliament  will 
that  point,  as  well  as 
to  adjudicate  and  on  which 
Equally important, the political institutions of the 

undergo 
executive 
restructuring 
enabling 
environment  for  the  administration  of  justice  and  the 
protection of human rights. 

Kenya believes in the rule of law at the national 
and international levels and considers the Rome Statute 
to  be  an  instrument  for  further  institutionalizing  the 
rule  of  law  and  fighting  impunity.  We  therefore 
encourage  States  that  are  not  parties  to  the  Statute, 
particularly  those  on  the  Security  Council,  which  is 
entrusted with the role of making referrals under article 
13  and  15  ter  and  deferrals  under  article  16  of  the 
Statute,  to  become  States  parties.  That  would  bind 
them  by  the  same  principles  as  those  over  which  they 
wish 
to 
pronounce themselves within the Security Council. The 
moral 
the 
corresponding  jurisprudential  contradiction,  ought  to 
be self-evident. 

Kenya  joins  other  Member  States  in  applauding 
the States that have ratified the Rome Statute since the 
last report, bringing the number from 111 to 119. 

Maintaining  public  confidence  in  any  justice 
system depends on the ability of that system to uphold 
the  rule  of  law  and  the  principles  of  natural  justice. 
Those  are  fundamental  elements  that  are  enshrined  in 
the spirit and the letter of the Rome Statute in order to 
ensure  that  justice  is  not  only  done,  but  that  it  is 
manifestly also seen to be done.  
Unfortunately, there is a growing perception that 

the  Court  is  unfairly  and  selectively  targeting  certain 
countries,  particularly  in  Africa.  There  is  also  a 
perception  that  ownership  of  the  Rome  Statute  has 
been  usurped,  as  if  to  suggest  that  the  Statute  and  the 
Court  are  meant  to  serve  some  States  and  not  others. 
Such  perceptions  undermine  an  institution  that  was 
created  with  very  noble  intentions,  and  threatens  to 
erode  all  confidence  in  the  Court.  When  we  fight 
impunity  and  promote 
the 
international  level,  we  should  not  substitute  impunity 
at 
impunity  and  high-
handedness at the international level through selective 
and  prejudicial  application  of 
the  principles  and 
articles of the Rome Statute. The Court needs therefore 
to candidly inquire why some States parties continue to 
be  disgruntled  and  alienated  within  the  ICC.  That 
process should be followed by the institution of actions 
the  rule  of 
the  national 
level  with 
law  at 
4 

11-57402 
among  States.  Those 


that  will  ensure  respect  for  the  rule  of  law  and  the 
principles  of  natural  justice  as  enshrined  in  the  spirit 
and letter of the Rome Statute. 

Let me  conclude by stating that the social fabric 
of our international order is based, among other things, 
on  the  principles  of  sovereignty  and  the  equality  of 
States,  on  the  immunity  of  officials  that  exists  under 
customary  international  law  and  on  the  peaceful 
coexistence 
fundamental 
principles should not only guide the work of the Court 
in relation to States but should also do so with respect 
to  the  role  of  the  Security  Council,  as  provided  under 
the Rome Statute.  

As  we  continue  the  process  of  identifying  the 
next prosecutor of the Court, we look forward to seeing 
a  prosecutor  who  will  work  with  the  Court  to  ensure 
that  those  fundamental  legal  outcomes  and  legal 
doctrines  are  upheld  in  the  application  of  the  Rome 
Statute. 
Mr.  Loy  (United  States  of  America):  Before  I 

begin,  I  would  like  to  express  my  country’s  profound 
condolence to the people of Italy on the death of Judge 
Antonio  Cassese,  an  eminent  scholar  and  jurist,  who 
made  a  lasting  contribution  to  international  criminal 
law. We would also like to thank President Sang-Hyum 
Song  for  his  report  (see A/66/333)  and  for  his  service 
to the International Criminal Court (ICC). 

Although  the  United  States  is  not  a  party  to  the 
Rome  Statute,  we  remain  steadfastly  committed  to 
promoting  the  rule  of  law  and  to  the  principle  that 
those responsible for serious violations of human rights 
and  international  humanitarian  law  should  be  held  to 
account. We  will  continue  to  play  a  leadership  role  in 
righting those wrongs when they have been committed 
and,  in  concert  with  the  international  community, 
acting on early warning signs to prevent atrocities from 
occurring  in  the  first  place.  We  recognize  that  the 
International  Criminal  Court  plays  a  key  role  in 
bringing perpetrators of the worst atrocities to justice. 

We were pleased to cast our first vote in favour of 
an  ICC  referral  by  the  Security  Council  earlier  this 
year, which reflects our continued engagement with the 
ICC  and  States  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  to  end 
impunity for the worst crimes. Just as we are engaging 
with the States parties on issues of concern, the Obama 
Administration  also  supports  the  ICC’s  prosecution  of 
those  cases  that  advance  United  States  interests  and 
A/66/PV.47
for 
the  gravest  crimes  within 
values,  consistent  with  the  requirements  of  United 
States law. 

We continue to support positive complementarity 
initiatives  by  assisting  countries  in  their  efforts  to 
develop  domestic  accountability  processes  for  Rome 
Statute  crimes.  The  ICC,  by  its  nature,  is  intended  to 
examine  only  those  accused  of  bearing  the  greatest 
responsibility 
its 
jurisdiction.  It  depends  on  States  to  complement  the 
work of the ICC with national-level prosecutions.  
In  that  regard,  over  the  past  year,  we  supported 

the  efforts  of  the  Government  of  the  Democratic 
Republic of the Congo to draft legislation establishing 
specialized  mixed  courts.  We  will  continue  to  assist 
efforts to strengthen the capacity and the independence 
of  the  Congolese  judicial  system  in  order  to  achieve 
justice  for  the  victims  of  sexual  violence  and  other 
grave  crimes.  We  supported  a  pilot  project  in  the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo to protect witnesses 
and judicial officers in sensitive and challenging cases, 
and  are  expanding  that  kind  of  witness-protection 
support. We are looking for additional ways to support 
domestic prosecutions in other countries.  
Despite  the  good  work  that  has  already  been 

done, 
important  challenges  remain.  In  particular, 
reparations  and  coordinated  and  effective  witness  and 
judicial protection remain key gaps that must be filled. 
Finally,  my 
the 
amendments  adopted  last  year  in  Kampala  are  well 
known, and were set forth in last year’s debate on this 
agenda item. (see A/65/PV.41, p. 26) 
The United States looks forward to continuing its 

participation  as  an  observer  at  meetings  of 
the 
Assembly of States Parties at the upcoming session in 
New York this December. 
Mr. Delgado Sánchez (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 

The delegation of Cuba takes note of the report of the 
International  Criminal  Court  contained  in  document 
A/66/309.  The 
impartial, 
non-selective,  effective  and  fair  international  criminal 
jurisdiction  that  is  complementary  to  national  justice 
systems and genuinely independent, and therefore free 
of subjugation to political interests that could distort its 
essence,  continues  to  be  an  objective  that  Cuba 
supports. 

its 
independence,  the  International  Criminal  Court  was 
delegation’s 
establishment  of 
an 
concerns 
about 
limitations 
However, 
given 
the 
to 
11-57402 

5 
The  referral  of 
the  case  of  Libya 
A/66/PV.47 

tainted  from  the  outset  owing  to  how  its  relationship 
with  the  Security  Council  was  defined.  Article  16  of 
the  Rome  Statute  authorizes  the  Security  Council  to 
suspend  investigations  or  prosecutions  carried  out  by 
the Court. That provision remains the case, despite the 
outcome  of  the  Review  Conference  of  the  Rome 
Statute, held in Kampala in 2010. 

the 
International  Criminal  Court  by  the  Security  Council 
revealed  once  again  a  negative  trend  that  Cuba  has 
repeatedly  condemned.  The  Security  Council, 
in 
violation  of  the  principles  of  international  law  and 
treaty law, continues to refer cases to the International 
Criminal Court that involve facts and citizens of States 
that are not party to the Rome Statute. 

The  very  resolutions  of  the  Security  Council  are 
proof of that organ’s policy of double standards, since 
those  very  resolutions  stipulate  that  crimes  committed 
by  the  forces  of  Powers  that  are  members  of  the 
Council  and  not  party  to  the  Rome  Statute  cannot  be 
investigated.  The  Court  cannot  be  a  tool  to  attack 
developing  countries  and  to  provide  impunity  to 
developed countries with regard to their aggressions. 

the  Security 
Council not only affects the supposed impartiality and 
independence 
the 
International  Criminal  Court.  It  also  threatens  the 
legitimacy  of  the  undemocratic  and  unrepresentative 
decisions of the Security Council. At that rate, we will 
soon  be  talking  of  reforming  not  only  the  Security 
Council  but  also  the  International  Criminal  Court  and 
its Statute. 

We would like to reiterate our concern about the 
serious  precedent  set  by  the  decisions  of  the  Court  to 
initiate  proceedings  against  nationals  of  States 
non-parties  to  the  Rome  Statute,  States  that  have  not 
even accepted the jurisdiction of the Court, pursuant to 
article  12  of 
its  Statute.  The  Cuban  delegation 
reiterates  that  the  legal  principle  regarding  a  State’s 
consent  to  be  bound  by  a  treaty,  as  provided  for  in 
article  11  of  part  II  of  the  Vienna  Convention  on  the 
Law of Treaties, of 23 May 1969, must be respected. 
criminal 

jurisdictions, the integrity of the International Criminal 
Court  must  be  preserved.  The  Court  must  remain 
impartial  and  fully  independent  of  the  political  bodies 
of  the  United  Nations,  in  particular  those  that  are 
undemocratic and unrepresentative in their work. Such 
that  should  be  a  hallmark  of 
irresponsible  conduct  by 
complement 
to 
national 
As 
a 
Such 

to 
and 
integrity 
In  conclusion,  we  reaffirm  our  resolve 
bodies should not hamper or affect its functioning. The 
responsibilities  of  the  Security  Council  under  the 
Charter  should  not  limit  the  Court’s  role  as  an 
independent judicial body. 

For more than 50 years, Cuba has been subjected 
to various forms of aggression, which, as a result of the 
unilateral  and  extraterritorial  actions  underlying  that 
aggression,  have  caused  thousands  of  deaths  and 
injuries  and 
incalculable  material,  economic  and 
financial  damage.  The  definition  of  the  crime  of 
aggression  reached  in  Kampala  is  more  limited  that 
Cuba  had  hoped  for.  We  missed  the  opportunity  to 
establish  a  generic  definition  that  would  cover  all  the 
forms  of  aggression  that  are  manifest  in  international 
relations  among  States.  Such  forms  are  not  limited  to 
the use of armed force, but include those that affect the 
sovereignty, 
political 
territorial 
independence of States. 

to 
contribute  to  the  implementation  of  truly  impartial 
international criminal law that respects the standards of 
international  law,  in  particular  the  United  Nations 
Charter. 
Mr.  Ulibarri  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 

Costa  Rica 
the  detailed  and 
comprehensive report submitted by the President of the 
International  Criminal  Court,  Judge  Sang-Hyun  Song, 
whose  leadership  and  vision  we  acknowledge  (see 
A/66/309). We reiterate our support for the Court as an 
essential component of the architecture of international 
law, in particular as an essential institution in fighting 
impunity for the worst crimes against humanity. 

As  the  Court  approaches  its  tenth  anniversary 
next year, we are pleased to see an increasing number 
of States adhering to, and ratifying, the Rome Statute. 

The  report  submitted  by  President  Song,  which 
covers the period from 1 August 2010 to 31 July 2011, 
indicates  that  five  States  ratified  the  Rome  Statute 
during  the  period:  Grenada,  the  Republic  of  Moldova, 
Saint Lucia, Seychelles and Tunisia. Subsequently, the 
Philippines,  Maldives  and  Cape  Verde  also  ratified  it. 
We  welcome  them  all  and  are  pleased  that  119  States 
have  now  joined  the  Court.  While  this  figure  is 
encouraging, it also makes clear how much remains to 
be done in order for the universalization of the Court to 
be  achieved.  We  call  on  those  States  that  are  not  yet 
parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  to  accede  to  it  as  soon  as 
possible,  with  a  view  to  strengthening  and  promoting 
is  grateful 
for 
6 

11-57402 
First,  we  share 


the  comprehensive  character  of  international  justice 
and, as a result, peace and human rights. 

Costa  Rica  would  like  to  address  three  specific 
aspects that are of particular interest to it with respect 
to the Court. 

the  concerns  expressed  by 
President Song regarding the lack of compliance on the 
part  of  certain  States  parties  with  the  clear  and 
irrecusable  responsibilities  that  derive  from  the  Rome 
Statute.  It  is  particularly  serious  that  this  lack  of 
compliance  is  reflected  in  the  refusal  to  execute 
outstanding  arrest  warrants.  There  is  no  valid  legal 
reason  to  persist  in  this  type  of  conduct,  and,  even 
worse,  in  the  challenge  that  is  implied  by  hosting  on 
the territory of any State party individuals who are the 
subjects of such arrest warrants. 

We  hope  that  the  report  on  possible  proceedings 
of  the  Assembly  in  relation  with  non-cooperation, 
which  was  adopted  unanimously  by  the  bureau,  will 
help  to  address  this  major  challenge.  It  is  even  more 
important,  however,  that  States  fully  shoulder  their 
responsibilities  and 
that  are 
subordinating  their  commitments  under  the  Rome 
Statute to other considerations change their attitude. 

An  additional  source  of  concern  is  the  financial 
situation  of  the  Court  and  the  possibility  that,  as  a 
result  of  budgetary  constraints,  its  important  work 
could  be  jeopardized.  The  efforts  of  the  Court  have 
increased  substantially  during  the  period  covered  by 
the  report,  as  is  made  clear  therein,  and  will  continue 
to  increase  in  future. This  is  due  to  the  gravity  of  the 
violations of human rights and of human dignity under 
consideration  and  also  to  the  greater  recognition 
accorded the essential character of the Court. 

However,  as  its  workload  has  increased,  its 
budget  has  shrunk  in  real  terms,  and  a  number  of 
important  member  States  have 
the 
implementation  of  indiscriminate  zero-growth  policies 
that do not duly take into account the internal workings 
of the Court or the external challenges that it faces. 

We hope that this issue will be considered at the 
next Assembly of States Parties, with patience, realism, 
goodwill  and  keeping  in  mind  two  key  factors:  the 
need  for  continuing  improvements  in  the  efficacy  and 
efficiency  of 
the 
commitment to invest in international justice, with the 
the  Court,  and 
the  work  of 
that 
those  States 
insisted  on 
A/66/PV.47
understanding  that  its  benefits  for  peace,  coexistence 
and human dignity vastly outweigh its costs.  

The  third  element  that  my  delegation  wishes  to 
address  is  cooperation  between  the  Court  and  the 
United  Nations,  which  is  derived  from  two  essential 
sources:  article  10  of  the  Relationship  Agreement 
between  the  two  organizations,  signed  on  4  October 
2004,  and  article  13  of  the  Rome  Statute,  on  the 
exercise  of  powers  by  the  Security  Council.  This 
cooperation has developed in a sound manner and has 
led  to  tangible  achievements  for  both  bodies  that  are 
linked  to  the  central  and  shared  objectives  of  the 
promotion  of  international  justice,  peace  and  human 
rights.  

However, it is necessary to recall that any referral 
from the Council to the Court, significant as it may be, 
also  implies  unforeseen  obligations.  It  would  be  fair, 
therefore, if the resulting costs were to be compensated 
by  the  United  Nations  —  something  that  has  not 
occurred to date. We trust that reasonable arrangements 
will be arrived at in this area as well. 

At the next Assembly of States Parties, to be held 
in December, we will elect six judges and the successor 
to  the  Prosecutor.  That  will  be  a  crucial  time  for  the 
future of the Court. Our country is fully committed to 
shouldering, 
responsible  and  clear-thinking 
manner,  our  responsibilities  with  respect  to  these  two 
processes and the work of the Court in general. 

We  would  like  to  take  this  opportunity  also  to 
express  appreciation  for  the  leadership  of  and  the 
impact  made  on  the  independence  of  the  organization 
by Prosecutor Luis Moreno-Ocampo, as well as by the 
President  of 
the  Assembly  of  States  Parties, 
Ambassador  Christian  Wenaweser  of  Liechtenstein, 
whose  mandate  is  also  coming  to  an  end,  and  we 
convey our gratitude to both. We also welcome the fact 
that Ambassador  Tiina  Intelmann  of  Estonia  has  been 
recommended  by  the  Bureau  to  take  the  helm  of  the 
Assembly for the next three years. 

We  are  certain  that,  with  the  contribution  of  all 
States parties of the United Nations and of responsible 
organizations  representing  civil  society,  we  will  move 
in the right direction and consolidate the gains made. 
Mr.  Troya  (Ecuador)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  Allow 

me  at  the  outset  to  convey  the  gratitude  of  the 
delegation  of  Ecuador  for  the  presentation  of  the 
seventh  annual 
the 
the  activities  of 
report  on 
in  a 
11-57402 

7 
given 

international  criminal 
A/66/PV.47 

International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  (see  A/66/309), 
which  we  received  from  the  President.  The  report 
reflects  the  painstaking  work  done  by  that  high  Court 
to  resolutely  combat  impunity,  which,  in  the  name  of 
peace, can never be tolerated. 

From  the  outset,  Ecuador  has  been  a  strong 
supporter of the establishment and consolidation of the 
International Criminal Court, and we would like to take 
this  opportunity  to  ratify  our  commitment  to  further 
strengthening the ICC and the Rome Statute as the sole 
mechanisms for the achievement of the implementation 
of  an 
justice  system.  We 
welcome  the  inclusion  of  Maldives,  the  Philippines, 
Cape Verde,  Grenada,  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  Saint 
Lucia,  Seychelles  and  Tunisia  to  the  Rome  Statute, 
which  brings  to  119  the  number  of  countries  that 
recognize the jurisdiction of the ICC. 

Following the commitments that were made at the 
Kampala Review Conference, progress has been made 
in  a  number  of  areas  that  are  key  to  the  further 
strengthening of the Court. Fundamental concepts such 
as the universalization of the Statute, complementarity 
and cooperation between States and the Court, as well 
as  support  for  victims  and  for  affected  communities, 
were 
the  active 
participation  of  my  country’s  delegation,  which 
attended the Conference. 

However,  Ecuador  remains  of  the  view  that  a 
great  deal  of  ground  remains  to  be  covered  and  that 
much remains to be done in a number of areas that are 
of  particular 
In 
particular,  my  delegation  deems  it  indispensable  that 
we  ensure  the  independence  and  autonomy  of  the 
Court,  gradually  eliminating  any  political  interference 
that  may  stem  from  any  of  the  organs  of  the  United 
Nations. 

The consensus that was achieved at the Kampala 
Conference  regarding  the  definition  of  the  crime  of 
aggression required significant sacrifices on the part of 
delegations  such  as  my  own,  which  had  hoped  for  a 
clearer,  more  stringent  article 
that  would  have 
prevented  any  future  abuse  of  military  power  and 
flagrant  violations  of  the  sovereignty  of  States.  As  a 
result,  we  call  for  all  necessary  efforts  to  ensure  that 
the provisions regarding the crime remain fully in force 
in 2017, without excuses or delays. 
For  Ecuador,  the  progressive  universalization  of 

the  Rome  Statute  and  of  the  jurisdiction  of  the 
the  subject  of  discussion,  with 
to  my  delegation. 
importance 
to 
immediate 
up.  Beyond 
that  are  submitted 
International Criminal Court is an objective that cannot 
be 
political 
considerations,  it  is  indispensable  that  we  progress 
towards the creation of authentic international criminal 
justice  with  jurisdiction  to  address  even  the  most 
horrendous  crimes  and  to  punish  the  perpetrators 
regardless  of  their  nationality,  their  position  or  their 
duties. 

Article 80 of the Constitution of the Republic of 
Ecuador confirms that there is no statute of limitations 
for  the  crime  of  genocide,  crimes  against  humanity, 
war crimes and crimes of aggression. We are currently 
in  the  process  of  aligning  various  bodies  of  our 
national  legislation  to  the  text  and  spirit  of  the  Rome 
Statute,  thus  strengthening  the  prohibition  of  the 
crimes  of  torture,  forced  disappearance  and  summary 
executions, inter alia.  
Moreover,  timely  and  appropriate  reparation  for 

all  victims  of  crimes 
the 
jurisdiction  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  is  a 
substantial element of justice. Therefore my delegation 
welcomes the efforts to strengthen the Voluntary Fund 
for  victim  compensation,  as  well  as  the  efforts  of 
various entities and Governments in this regard. 

The  delegation  of  Ecuador  fully  supports  the 
work  of  all  working  groups,  particularly  the  search 
committee for the post of Prosecutor, whose efforts are 
fundamental for the future of the Court. 

The Government of Ecuador has made consistent 
efforts  to  ensure  that  the  International  Criminal  Court 
is  equipped  with  the  necessary  funds  to  ensure  its 
efficient  functioning.  There  is  no  justification  for 
allowing  tasks  of  undoubted  importance,  such  as 
protection  of  witnesses  and  victims,  as  well  as  the 
work of the Prosecutor, to be jeopardized as a result of 
insufficient funding.  

We are on the threshold of a renewal process that 
will involve the judges and Prosecutor of the Court and 
the  President  and  Bureau  of  the  Assembly  of  States 
Parties.  It  is  part  of  an  enriching  democratic  exercise 
that  merits  the  strongest  support,  a  process  that  my 
country applauds and is following closely. 

Allow  me  to  conclude  by  affirming  that  the 
delegation  of  Ecuador  echoes  the  call  to  maintain  and 
strengthen  a  constructive  and  efficient  relationship 
among the Court and the various organs of the United 
Nations.  We  are  committed 
the 
to  strengthening 
8 

11-57402 
in 


institutionality of the Court. We believe that the effort 
is a joint undertaking in which we should participate in 
a constructive manner in order to achieve the goals we 
have set ourselves. 
Mr.  Falouh  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 

Arabic):  My  country  participated 
the  Rome 
Conference  that  culminated  in  the  adoption  of  the 
Statute  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC)  in 
1998. It also signed the Rome Statute. 

The Rome Statute of the ICC was designed to end 
impunity for those who committed the crimes listed in 
the Statute, which reaffirms in its preamble  

“the Purposes and Principles of the Charter of the 
United  Nations,  and  in  particular  that  all  States 
shall  refrain  from  the  threat  or  use  of  force 
against 
integrity  or  political 
independence  of  any  State,  or  in  any  other 
manner  inconsistent  with  the  Purposes  of  the 
United Nations”. 
territorial 
the 
It 
in 
The preamble also emphasizes that 

this  Statute  shall  be 
is  really  disconcerting 
“nothing 
taken  as 
authorizing  any  State  Party  to  intervene  in  an 
armed  conflict  or  in  the  internal  affairs  of  any 
State”. 

The  Rome  Statute  reaffirms  that  the  jurisdiction 
of the Court is invoked only when the national judicial 
system fails to use its jurisdiction. It also confirms that 
the main and primary jurisdiction of the national law is 
in  realizing  justice  on  its  territories  and  in  cases  that 
are under its jurisdiction and mandate.  

idea  of 
that 
international criminal justice is being used as a pretext 
to  implement  political  agendas  totally  alien  to  well-
known  norms  and  rules  of  international  law  and  the 
purposes and principles of the United Nations. It is also 
regrettable  that  some  countries  refer  to  my  country, 
Syria, in their statements, using this rostrum, this item 
and  this  legal  organ  to  turn  the  facts  upside  down,  to 
level accusations and to present misrepresentations and 
falsifications.  They  use  or  misuse  law  and  place  it  at 
the  service  of  politics  to  serve  their  own  logic  for 
interfering in the internal affairs of States.  

I do not believe that delegations that participated 
in  the  Rome  Conference  thought  that  the  coveted 
codification  of  international  criminal  law  would  at 
some point be used in the service of political agendas. I 
the 
A/66/PV.47
that 
and  punishment 
We  would  have  hoped 
believe they  never thought then that the Rome Statute 
of the ICC would one day be used as a pretext to topple 
regimes or to interfere in the internal affairs of States. 
None of the jurists who participated in the drafting of 
the Statute ever thought that the idea of the definition 
of  the  crime  of  aggression  would  be  diluted  to  serve 
the  aggressor  State,  nor  did  they  ever  dream  that 
certain States that commit  crimes that  come under the 
jurisdiction  of  the  Court  would  be  exempt  from 
and  would  be 
accountability 
overlooked  because  of  considerations 
that  are 
completely  contradictory  to  the  principles  of  justice 
and equality. 

the  Australian 
delegation would talk to us about the Iraqi women and 
children  who  emigrated  and  whose  bodies  were 
devoured  by  sharks,  in  full  view  of  Australian  ship 
crews in the Java Sea. We would have wished that they 
would  tell  us  of  justification  for  the  situation  of 
thousands  of  people  in  detention  camps,  in  shanty 
towns  established  on  the  northern  coast  of  Australia, 
lacking  any  medical  care,  because  they  are  illegal 
immigrants. 

My  country  has  experienced  unrest.  The  time 
available  here  will  not  permit  me  to  discuss  this  in 
detail.  My  country  has  previously  explained 
the 
circumstances  surrounding  the  unrest,  as  well  as  the 
measures  that  the  Syrian  Government  has  taken  to 
restore peace, stability and the rule of law in the areas 
marred by unrest.  

We  would,  however,  like  to  reaffirm  once  again 
that 
the  Syrian  Government 
serious  about 
implementing  the  promised  reforms.  Actually,  it  has 
already 
legislative, 
judicial, social and political reforms. I would also like 
to  stress  that  the  Syrian  authorities  are  undertaking 
their  legal  and  judicial  responsibilities  in  full  in  order 
to implement the law and bring to justice anyone who 
violates the law, regardless of their character or post.  

The  Independent  Judicial  Commission  that  has 
been  established  is  fulfilling  its  mandate  by  referring 
anyone implicated in an illegal act to the national court 
system,  so  that  the  necessary  legal  measures  can  be 
taken while preserving all the rights of the accused and 
the victims at the various stages of court proceedings. 

I  sincerely  call  upon  everyone  to  reread  the 
provisions  of  the  Charter  and  to  revive  the  spirit  of 
implementing 
started 
legal, 
is 
11-57402 

9 
A/66/PV.47 

those  provisions  in  order  to  improve  relations  among 
States Members of the United Nations. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 

speaker in the debate on agenda item 75. The General 


this  stage  of 
its 
Assembly  has 
thus  concluded 
consideration of agenda item 75. 



  The meeting rose at 4.40 p.m. 
10 

11-57402 
