
A/66/PV.23
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

23rd plenary meeting 
Saturday, 24 September 2011, 3 p.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 





  The meeting was called to order at 3.25 p.m. 

Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate 



I  have  great  pleasure 
  Address by Mr. José Maria Pereira Neves, 
Prime Minister and Minister of Reform of the 
Republic of Cape Verde 

The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address by the Prime Minister and Minister of Reform 
of the Republic of Cape Verde. 

Mr.  José  Maria  Pereira  Neves,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  of  Reform  of  the  Republic  of  Cape 
Verde, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  President: 

in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  José  Maria  Pereira 
Neves,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  of  Reform  of  the 
Republic  of  Cape  Verde,  and  inviting  him  to  address 
the General Assembly. 

Mr. Pereira Neves (Cape Verde) (spoke in Cape 
Verdean; English text provided by the delegation): It is 
a  great  honour  to  participate  in  the  General Assembly 
and a great privilege to greet Members on behalf of the 
people and the Government of Cape Verde.  

I  address  the  Assembly  in  the  Cape  Verdean 
language,  the  Creole  of  Cape  Verde.  I  believe  this  is 
the  first  time  Cape  Verdean  Creole  is  used  in  United 
Nations  General  Assembly.  I  do  it  to  share  with  the 
Assembly  this  piece  of  authentic  world  heritage,  born 
on  the  threshold  of  the  fifteenth  century.  Linguistic 
experts  consider  it  the  oldest  Creole  of  Euro-African 
origin and the oldest within the Atlantic context.  
I  use  it  also  because  language  is  culture,  history 

and  memory.  All 
languages  are  expressions  of 
thoughts,  knowledge  and  practices.  Languages  are  no 
doubt  an  expression  of  civilization.  Therefore, 
speaking  in  the  Creole  of  Cape  Verde,  in  this  most 
important  Hall,  at  a  meeting  of  heads  of  State  and 
Government,  is  a  reference  to  our  conviction  that  the 
Creole  identity  is  of  anthropological  value  for  all 
humanity.  It  is  a  way  of  highlighting  our  Cape 
Verdeanship: our soul and the way of being, the ethos 
and  pathos  of  Cape  Verde,  which  is  the  result  of  the 
intersection  of  various  peoples  of  the  world.  The 
language is, in and of itself, a synthesis of the meeting 
of  civilizations.  By  using  it,  I  also  pay  vibrant  tribute 
to Aristides  Pereira,  the  first  President  of  Cape  Verde 
and  a  great  African  fighter  for  freedom  and  human 
dignity, who recently passed away. 

The central theme of this Assembly session — the 
role  of  mediation  in  the  settlement  of  disputes  by 
peaceful  means  —  is  a  crucial  and  imperative  theme 
for the world. It reflects the identity, the way of being 
and  lifestyle  of  Cape  Verdeans.  As  subscribers  to  the 
purposes  and  principles  of  the  United  Nations,  we 
believe that peace and human rights are the key factors 
in  the  construction  of  sovereignty,  democratic  rule  of 
law and sustainable development. Therefore, mediators 
are  required  to  position  and  approach  matters  within 
the universal  matrix of peace  and human rights as the 
highest  priorities  of  all  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations.  



This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-51372 (E) 
*1151372* 


to 
the  objective  of 
A/66/PV.23 


In  addition,  we  consider  it  crucial  to  take  an 
approach  focused  on  the  prevention  and  control  of 
non-communicable  diseases  worldwide,  especially  in 
the  context  of  the  challenges  faced  by  developing 
countries. 

Let  me  offer  a  few  special  words  regarding  the 
development  of  themes  such  as  desertification,  land 
degradation  and  drought  in  the  context  of  sustainable 
development and poverty eradication in preparation for 
the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development,  scheduled  for  June  2012,  which  we 
strongly and actively support.  

One  of  the  most  decisive  actions  taken  by 
independent  Cape  Verde,  soon  after  1975,  was 
reforestation, along with orographic correction and the 
mobilization  of  water.  As  a  small  island  developing 
State  at  the  crossroads  of  two  large  regions  —  the 
Sahel and Macaronesia — and suffering the effects of 
the  most  stringent  climatic  randomness  of  one  region 
and  the  oceanic  isolation  of  the  other,  Cape  Verde  is 
conscious of the importance of the green as well as the 
blue  economy 
sustainable 
development.  

We need the United Nations to work out our part 
in  preventing  climate  change  and  food  and  water 
shortages.  We  count  on  the  United  Nations  and  all 
countries  of  this  great  General Assembly  to  converge 
both  bilaterally  and  multilaterally  towards  the  green 
economy  and  sustainable  development.  Therefore,  in 
Cape  Verde 
is  an  ongoing  and  ambitious 
programme for covering 50 per cent of national energy 
needs through renewable sources by 2020. 

Despite remarkable and positive changes — some 
of which have been internationally recognized, such as 
our  graduation  to  middle-income  country  status  and 
being  on  the  path  towards  full  achievement  of  the 
Millennium Development Goals — I would still like to 
take  this  opportunity  to  better  acquaint  the  General 
Assembly with my country. 

Cape Verde, with its ten islands in the middle of 
the Atlantic, strategically positioned in the corridor and 
the cross-Atlantic flow, is not only a strong partner for 
global  security,  geostrategic  interests  and  world  trade, 
but  is  also  an  active  and  useful  member  of  the 
international community in the fight against trafficking 
and  related  crime.  The  vast  oceanic  region  of  Cape 
Verde  is  an  important  space  for  security  in  the 
promotion of  regional peace and prosperity and in the 
there 
affirmation of  an  international  coalition  to  fight  illicit 
transnational crime. 

Some may wonder, “What country is this?” Some 
think of it as the nation of Amilcar Cabral; others see it 
as the country of Cesaria  Evora. Cape Verde is a land 
that was once an important entrepôt and trans-shipment 
base  for  the African  slave  trade,  for  both  Europe  and 
the Americas. Its oldest city — Ribeira Grande, or the 
Cidade  Velha  —  was  named  a  World  Heritage  by 
UNESCO in 2009. 
Cape Verde is a State that encourages other States 

to  remember,  through  memory,  history  and  human 
rights,  the  international  slave  routes,  just  as  we 
remember  the  Holocaust,  another  of  the  heights  of 
human  barbarism.  In  Cape  Verde  we  can  defy  our 
lusophone  partners  in  the  Community  of  Portuguese-
speaking  Countries  and  our  African  partners  and  the 
entire  world  to  reaffirm  our  commitment  against 
barbarism,  dictatorship,  colonialism and disrespect for 
human  rights  through  the  promotion  of  the  candidacy 
of  the  Tarrafal  concentration  camp  on  the  island  of 
Santiago as a World Heritage site. 
Those  who  know  us  know  that  we  are  a  country 

concerned  with  development.  We  do  not  settle  for 
being middle-income country. We need the partnership 
with the international community to fulfil our destiny. 
In  Cape  Verde’s  transformational  agenda,  we 

have identified five pillars of our country’s growth and 
poverty  reduction  strategy:  promotion  of  effective 
governance, 
development, 
confronting the structural and social challenges arising 
from competitiveness, and investment in infrastructure 
for improving social cohesion. 

Cape  Verde  is  developing  a  foreign  policy  that 
favours  democracy,  justice,  peace,  cooperation  and 
sustainable  development. We  look  at  the  planet  as  the 
home of all, respecting the sovereignty and will of the 
people  while  emphasizing  the  global  convergence  in 
the  core  of  humankind.  We  are  therefore  concerned 
about hunger in the Horn of Africa. We are concerned 
that thousands of children die in Africa every day from 
hunger.  I  am  concerned  that  that  does  not  motivate  a 
stronger 
the 
dictatorship of hunger is the worst of dictatorships.  

We urge the United Nations to be more effective 
and to make a concerted effort to reverse the image of 
that  human  tragedy  in  East Africa. We  must  therefore 
strengthening 
intervention, 
international 
human 
since 
2 

11-51372 


eradicate the geopolitics of hunger. We all need to take 
the paradigm of zero hunger in the world. 

We  are  also  concerned  about  wars  and  tensions 
that  thrive  a  little  everywhere  but  are  now  more 
localized  and  of  more  intense  in  Africa,  the  Middle 
East and Asia — to the delight of the dealers in misery, 
those  who  invest  in  the  war  industry  and  in  the 
suffering  of  millions  of  human  beings,  especially 
children,  women  and  the  elderly.  We  must  reach  a 
global consensus that security, peace and stability arise 
from  the  economic  and  social  development  of  States 
and  peoples.  We  must  deconstruct  war,  conflict  and 
tension  between  countries  and  peoples  and  ensure  the 
commitment  of  the  sixty-sixth  session  of  the  General 
Assembly  towards  that  noble  goal.  We  must  reiterate 
that mediation is essential to settle disputes, whether in 
Africa or in the rest of the world. 

The  global  economic  crisis  is  acute.  In  large 
countries  it  shows  signs  of  settling  and  in  poor 
countries  it  is  amplified.  If  the  crisis  is  global,  it 
requires global responses against recessionary policies, 
such as the protection of domestic markets, and the war 
against  unfairly  priced  imports.  It  also  requires  global 
positions  that  converge  towards  social  inclusion  as  a 
way to reduce the impact of the economic crisis. 

We  reiterate  our  firm  position  of  respect  for 
international laws, the principles of non-interference in 
internal  affairs  and  the  sovereignty  of  peoples  and 
nations. We do not support double standards for similar 
cases,  as  if  peoples  and  nations  were  not  equal  and 
deserving of the same treatment, as stated in the United 
Nations Charter. 

Before concluding, I must emphasize our position 
in  favour  of  expanding  the  reform  model  of  global 
governance  by  the  United  Nations,  allowing,  among 
the many benefits, small States to have a greater voice 
in  the  decision-making  process  of  the  international 
system. Cape Verde unequivocally supports an increase 
in  the  number  of  permanent  members  of  the  Security 
Council, in the belief that the world is no longer  as it 
was  at  the  end  of  the  Second  World  War,  nor  does  it 
resemble that of the end of the Cold War. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
the  General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister of Reform of the Republic of Cape Verde for 
the statement he has just made. 



A/66/PV.23
Mr.  José  Maria  Pereira  Neves,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  of  Reform  of  the  Republic  of  Cape 
Verde, was escorted from the rostrum. 

  Address by Mr. Peter O’Neill, Prime Minister of 
Papua New Guinea 
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

address by the Prime Minister of Papua New Guinea. 

to 
offer 
I  have  great  pleasure 
Mr. Peter O’Neill, Prime Minister of Papua New 
Guinea, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The  President: 

in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Peter  O’Neill,  Prime 
Minister  of  Papua  New  Guinea,  and  inviting  him  to 
address the General Assembly. 
Mr. O’Neill (Papua New Guinea): Mr. President, 

allow me, on behalf of the Government  and people of 
Papua  New  Guinea, 
our  warmest 
congratulations  on  your  assumption  of  the  presidency 
of the General Assembly at its sixty-sixth session. We 
pledge  support  for  your  statement  highlighting  the 
success  of  global  endeavours  that  are  founded  on  the 
principles  of  partnership,  justice  and  responsibility.  I 
also thank your predecessor, Mr. Joseph Diess, for his 
invaluable  contributions  to  the  United  Nations,  and  I 
wish him well.  

I also wish to congratulate the Secretary-General, 
His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon, 
his 
reappointment for a second term, and to thank him for 
attending  our  recent  annual  Pacific  Islands  Leaders 
Meeting in Auckland, New Zealand. His attendance at 
our regional meeting was the first by a United Nations 
Secretary-General and is testament to the strengthening 
ties between the United Nations and the Pacific region. 
We  particularly  note  his  heartfelt  comments  when 
describing  his  experiences  on  witnessing  the  adverse 
effects  of  climate  change  on  low-lying  atolls  in  the 
Republic of Kiribati and the various other development 
challenges  faced  by  many  small  island  States  in  our 
region. 

Allow  me,  like  other  speakers,  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  welcome  our  newest  member  of  the 
United Nations family — the Republic of South Sudan. 

Papua  New  Guinea  continues  to  benefit  from  a 
strong United Nations presence through its delivery of 
various  development  programmes.  Papua  New  Guinea 
welcomed  and  formalized  the  “One  United  Nations 
Initiative: delivering as one” concept in 2006. That has 
on 
11-51372 

3 
justice, 
health, 
gender, 

the 
second, 
education, 
report  and 
A/66/PV.23 

unified  all  the  efforts  of  the  various  United  Nations 
agencies  under  one  budgetary  framework,  monitoring 
and evaluation process. 

The  concept  will  enable  a  more  effective  and 
efficient  way  for  the  United  Nations  to  deliver  on  its 
mandate,  particularly  the  new  country  programme  for 
Papua New Guinea, to be rolled out at the beginning of 
January  2012.  It  will  target  the  areas  of  governance, 
social 
the 
environment, climate change and disaster management.  

That  new  country  programme  is  part  of  our 
overall efforts to achieve the Millennium Development 
Goals  (MDGs).  Since  the  inaugural  MDG  report  was 
published  in  2004,  Papua  New  Guinea  has  produced 
two  MDG  progress  reports.  The  first,  in  2009,  was  a 
summary 
in  2010,  a 
comprehensive report. They showed that we have been 
able  to  achieve  some  of  the  national  MDG  targets, 
especially on poverty reduction and child mortality. 

In  terms  of  universal  primary  education,  Papua 
New Guinea is progressing well, with the enrolment of 
children in grades one to six increasing significantly — 
by 53 per cent. That is a marked improvement and will 
increase  the  literacy  rate  in  the  long  term.  Our 
Government  recently  announced  a  policy  of  free 
education  from  the  elementary  level  to  year  10  and 
subsidized  education  from  grade  11  to  university, 
commencing 2012. 

We are also revamping our national health system 
to  improve  immunization  programmes,  to  provide  a 
clean and safer water supply, to centralize the purchase 
and  supply  of  medical  drugs,  and  to  reduce  maternal 
and  child  mortality  and  the  incidence  of  malaria, 
HIV/AIDS  and  other  communicable  diseases.  The 
recent 
summit  on  non-communicable 
diseases,  attended  by  our  Minister 
for  Health, 
reiterated  our  equal  responsibility  for  our  own,  our 
families’ and our communities’ health and well-being. 
Our Government remains committed to achieving 

the  MDGs,  and  we  are  now  scaling  up  progress  in  all 
relevant  sectors.  Our  new  Development  Strategic  Plan 
2010-2030  and  Medium  Term  Development  Plan  aim 
to  develop  and  foster  key  enabling  environments, 
which  will  raise  Papua  New  Guinea  to  a  middle-
income  country  and  improve  its  Human  Development 
Index ranking. 
important 

We  call  on  all  our  development  partners  to 
complement our efforts to achieve the MDG targets in 
line with our national development plans and policies. I 
believe  other  developing  countries  will  support  our 
call. 

We are also investing heavily in the rehabilitation 
of  our  major  transport  infrastructure,  including  roads, 
airports  and  seaports.  Aside  from  that,  we  are  also 
rolling  out  rural  communication  systems  and  rural 
electrification.  As  we  are  all  aware, 
improved 
infrastructure will enable effective service delivery. 

Women  play  critical  roles  in  all  facets  of  our 
development. Our Government is conscious of the need 
to have more women participate actively in the affairs 
of  state  and  in  the  economic  life  of  our  country.  I  am 
pleased to report that we have recently passed the first 
vote  on  a  parliamentary  bill  that  will  provide  for 
22 seats  reserved  for  women  to  contest  in  the  coming 
elections  in  2012.  That  provision  does  not  stop  them 
from contesting any of the existing seats. 

We  also  appreciate  the  push  by  multilateral 
partners  like  the  Asian  Development  Bank  and  the 
World  Bank  for  gender  equality.  In  the  same  breath, 
however,  we  urge  them  to  support  our  financial 
institutions  by  specifically  allocating  funds  without 
risk  to  be  lent  to  women  entrepreneurs  to  develop 
business opportunities. 

We  note  the  recently  adopted  San  Francisco 
Declaration  by  the  countries  member  of  the  Asia-
Pacific  Economic  Cooperation  (APEC)  last  week, 
under  the  leadership  of  the  United  States  of America. 
That  is  a  major  step  forward  in  supporting  women  in 
business and is a powerful tool for women of the APEC 
member  countries.  We  will  encourage  our  women  in 
Papua  New  Guinea 
the 
opportunities created by that Declaration. 

There  remain  many  other  global  challenges  that 
continue to affect the development aspirations of many 
of our countries. One is nuclear non-proliferation. The 
Pacific  remains  a  nuclear-weapons-free  zone.  We  call 
upon other Member States who are not yet signatories 
to sign and ratify the Rarotonga Treaty. 

illegal  use,  abuse  and 
the  dangerous 
proliferation of small arms and light weapons continue 
to  hamper 
the  development  aspirations  of  many 
developing  countries.  We  therefore  call  upon  the 
international  community 
to  deal  seriously  with 
take  advantage  of 
The 
to 
4 

11-51372 
of 
On 
the 
and 
relevant 
accelerate 
international 
implementation 


outstanding  issues  such  as  the  illegal  supply  of  and 
trade in small arms. Our Government will do all it can 
to 
the 
recommendations in our own Gun Summit Report. 

transnational  crime,  Papua  New  Guinea 
remains  committed  to  working  closely  with  other 
Governments 
law 
enforcement  agencies  to  curb  drug  trafficking,  human 
trafficking and money-laundering. 

As  one  of  the  top  five  remaining  rainforest 
nations,  we  are  committed  to  addressing  the  many 
challenges  of  climate  change,  biodiversity  and 
sustainable development of our forests. We continue to 
maintain dialogue with all stakeholders, being mindful 
that issues confronting many nations on climate change 
are very complex. 

In  the  matter  of  United  Nations  reform,  we 
support  and  encourage  the  reform  of  the  United 
Nations, its agencies and its Secretariat, to make them 
more responsive to and active in responding to global, 
regional  and  national  challenges. We  reiterate  our  call 
for an expansion of membership in the permanent and 
non-permanent  categories  of  the  Security  Council, 
which must take into account the geopolitical realities 
of today’s world. 

In terms of our contribution to the maintenance of 
international  peace  and  security,  I  am  pleased  to 
announce  the  deployment  of  our  uniformed  personnel 
as military observers. That is history in the making for 
our  country,  and  we  thank  the  United  Nations  for 
giving us the opportunity for our security personnel to 
participate in international peacekeeping duties. 

On regional issues, tuna is an important source of 
food and is, along with tourism, an economic resource 
for  the  Pacific  island  States.  Papua  New  Guinea  and 
countries  that  are  parties  to  the  Nauru Agreement  are 
determined  to  process  tuna  onshore  to  add  value  and 
create  employment  for  our  people.  We  encourage 
investors to invest in onshore activities. 

At the Pacific regional level, we are conscious of 
our obligation to conserve fisheries through sustainable 
fishing.  The  parties  to  the  Nauru  Agreement  have 
introduced  the  Vessel  Day  Scheme  to  limit  the  total 
catch  for  conservation  purposes.  In  addition,  Papua 
New  Guinea  continues  to  make  funds  available  to  the 
South Pacific community to tag tuna species so that we 
A/66/PV.23
are  can  quantify  and  assess  the  tuna  stocks  for  the 
future. 

Over the past nine years, Papua New Guinea has 
continued 
to  experience  unprecedented  economic 
growth  levels  of  6  to  8  per  cent  per  annum.  That  has 
been  largely  attributable  to  significant  increases  in 
foreign  investments  in  our  mineral  and  hydrocarbon 
sectors  and  to  the  high  prices  of  our  agricultural 
commodities.  Those  economic  growth  levels  have 
positioned Papua New Guinea to become a significant 
development partner within our region. 

Papua  New  Guinea  greatly  values  the  objectives 
and  principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter.  We 
reaffirm  our 
the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security,  the  development  of 
friendly relations among nations and working together 
towards the achievement of the aspirations of all of our 
peoples. 
the  General 

Assembly I wish to thank the Prime Minister of Papua 
New Guinea for the statement he has just made. 

Mr. Peter O’Neill, Prime Minister of Papua New 
Guinea, was escorted from the rostrum. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
support 
for 



  Address by Mr. Tuilaepa Sailele Malielegaoi, 
Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs 
and Trade of the Independent State of Samoa 
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  a 

statement  by  the  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs  and Trade  of  the  Independent  State  of 
Samoa. 

Mr. Tuilaepa Sailele Malielegaoi, Prime Minister 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade of the 
Independent State of Samoa, was escorted to the 
rostrum. 
The  President: 

in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Tuilaepa  Sailele 
Malielegaoi,  Prime  Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs  and Trade  of  the  Independent  State  of  Samoa, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Malielegaoi  (Samoa):  Samoa  joined  the 

United Nations 35 years ago, a  decision rooted firmly 
in our belief in the principle of the sovereign equality 
of  all  Member  States,  each  with  the  same  rights  and 
responsibilities.  That 
our 
I  have  great  pleasure 
underpins 
sentiment 
11-51372 

5 
A/66/PV.23 

relationship with our Organization as it evolves into a 
global family of interdependent nations. 

The  Organization  remains  one  of  the  last,  if  not 
the greatest, bastion against the serious challenges and 
uncertainties  that  beset  our  world  —  financial  and 
economic  crises,  climate  change,  environmental 
degradation,  land  desertification,  ocean  acidification, 
destruction  of  fishery  resources,  endemic  poverty  and 
dangerous threats to peace and security. That is why we 
continue to support the United Nations and look to its 
timely  interventions  and  leadership  in  addressing  the 
challenges  the  world  faces  and  finding  collective 
solutions to them. 

It  is  in  the  context  of  the  leadership  role  of  the 
United Nations that the visit of Secretary-General Ban 
Ki-moon  earlier  this  month  to  the  Pacific  region  as  a 
special  guest  of  the  Pacific  Leaders  Forum  in  New 
Zealand was particularly significant. The visit enabled 
the Secretary-General to see first-hand the scale of the 
challenges  facing  vulnerable  Pacific  small 
island 
countries. The visit, the  first ever to the Pacific by an 
incumbent  Secretary-General 
the  66  years  of 
existence  of  the  United  Nations,  was  a  historical 
milestone in the relationship between the Pacific region 
and  the  United  Nations.  The  fact  that  the  Secretary-
General  is  from  the  Asia-Pacific  region  and  that  the 
visit took place before the start of his second term, not 
at the end of it, are positive aspects that were not lost 
on  the  Pacific  leaders.  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon’s  advocacy 
the  different 
and  support  of  Pacific 
international 
sustainable 
development, climate change and peace and security, as 
we  witnessed  on  Wednesday  when  he  presented  his 
report  to  the  General Assembly,  will  be  invaluable  in 
placing  Pacific  concerns  at  centre  stage  for  attention 
and support where needed. 
is 
the  world’s  premier 
The  United  Nations 

Organization. 
the  various  areas  of 
in 
development  and  in  improving  the  human  condition 
must  be  exemplary  and  unequivocal.  The  work  and 
the  United  Nations 
influence  of 
to  encourage 
Governments 
to  respect  and  uphold  fundamental 
human  rights  is  sorely  needed  in  parts  of  our  Pacific 
region and across the world. 

In  our  region  as  well,  the  work  of  the  United 
Nations  to  facilitate  the  choices  of  Pacific  peoples  to 
exercise  their  right  to  self-determination  continues  to 
form  an 
important  part  of  our  Pacific  region’s 
dealing  with 
forums 
issues 
in 
Its 
role 
in 

instil 
confidence.  While 
A  full  recovery  of 
the  global  economy 
association with the United Nations. In this respect, we 
strongly  urge  the  United  Nations  to  play  a  more 
proactive role towards the achievement of this goal. 

Development,  security  and  human  rights  are 
mutually  reinforcing  pillars  of  the  United  Nations. 
Equal progress on all three fronts should be the norm, 
not  the  exception. A  decade  into  the  new  millennium, 
we find the Assembly meeting against the backdrop of 
a  world  teetering  on  many  fronts  and  replete  with 
uncertainties. 
to 

pre-2008  levels  continues  to  be  an  elusive  goal.  The 
immediate  to  medium-term  outlook  is  not  promising 
and  does  not 
some 
Governments  are  being  assisted  with  their  budgetary 
difficulties,  others,  in  contrast,  are  struggling  on  their 
own  to  provide  the  basic  necessities  for  their  people. 
Achieving  the  time-bound  Millennium  Development 
Goals in their totality is becoming difficult by the day. 

In terms of crises, be it economic, climate change 
or food-related, the most and worst affected by any one 
of  these  are,  without  exception,  some  of  the  United 
Nations  —  recognized  vulnerable  groups  —  the  least 
developed  countries  and  the  small  island  developing 
States.  Samoa  belongs  to  both  categories.  Though  the 
United Nations has committed, through internationally 
agreed  development  frameworks  such  as  the  Brussels 
Programme  of  Action,  the  Barbados  Programme  of 
Action and others, to help vulnerable economies attain 
economic  growth,  sustainable  development  and  the 
resilience to endure external shocks, the reality is that 
the needs of these groups always outstrip the resources 
available  to  them.  This  mismatch  is  due  in  part  to 
undercapitalized 
frameworks  with  no  dedicated 
funding. 

Earlier  this  week,  the  United  Nations  focused 
long-overdue  attention  on  the  insidious  health  threat 
posed  by  non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs).  If  left 
unchecked, NCDs will not only devastate the health of 
our people but also have the potential to wreak havoc 
in our economies, with the incidence of these so-called 
lifestyle  diseases  having  a  heavy  impact  on  the 
productive  population.  Samoa  therefore  adds  its  voice 
to  the  call  to  include  the  reduction  of  non-communicable 
diseases  in  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  and 
which  sufficient  resources  and  donor  partnership 
actions should also prioritize. 
6 

11-51372 
the 
in 
the 
reflected 
four-pronged 
implementation  of 
sustainable  management, 



These  are  real  concerns.  Sustainable  economic 
development  is  a  priority  issue  for  Samoa  and  the 
Pacific  island  countries.  This  is  why  we  are  hopeful 
that  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development (Rio+20), to be held next June in Brazil, 
will allow for a serious discussion and reorientation of 
the  whole  United  Nations  community  on 
the 
importance  of  identifying  and  providing  the  necessary 
resources  for 
the  agreed 
programmes  of  action  and  other  global  arrangements 
that the United Nations underwrites. 

The  theme  of  this  year’s  Pacific  Forum  was 
“Converting potential into prosperity”. In line with this 
is the advocacy led by the Pacific countries to raise the 
profile  of  the  oceans  agenda  towards  a  strong  “blue 
economy”  outcome,  to  ensure  that  the  importance  of 
the  oceans  to  our  islands  is  captured  as  an  integral 
component of the Rio+20 outcome. The ocean provides 
the  Pacific  region  with  opportunities  and  challenges, 
best 
focus  on 
conservation, 
balanced 
harvesting  and  greater  economic  return  from  the 
utilization of fishery and marine resources. 

The emphasis of efforts on maximizing economic 
benefits  from  fisheries  is  a  recognition  of  its  vital 
contribution 
sustainable  economic 
development  and  attempts  to  address  the  long-held 
concern  of  Pacific  islands  that  they  have  been  for  far 
too  long  short-changed  and  unfairly  compensated  for 
the  fishery  resources  found  within  our  waters,  which 
are worth many billions of dollars, with less than 1 per 
cent received by the island countries. 

The  Pacific  States  have  long  been  committed  to 
efforts  to  conserve  and  manage  fisheries  resources  in 
the  region.  It  has  therefore  also  been  a  point  of  long-
standing  frustration  that  vessels  of  major  fishing 
nations  continue  to  fish  illegally  in  Pacific  waters. 
Even when they are caught carrying out illegal fishing 
activities, it is by no means a certainty that prosecution 
and enforcement of penalties will be successful, when 
infringing 
financial 
resources backing their defences. 

We  therefore  again  urge  cooperation  from  all 
nations  with  fishing  fleets  in  the  Pacific  to  work 
together  with  our  Pacific  countries  to  stop  illegal, 
unreported  and  unregulated  fishing  practices  in  the 
Pacific.  The  Pacific  carries  the  last  major  stocks  of 
some key fish species that in other oceans have already 
fishing  vessels  have  heavy 
in 
supporting 
A/66/PV.23
and 
depleted, 
in  meeting 
contaminated 
been 
devastated. 
Successful conservation and the effective management 
of harvest levels in the long term is absolutely critical, 
not just for Pacific  countries and distant-water  fishing 
nations, but, ultimately, the availability of fish supplies 
to  the  rest  of  the  world  in  the  years  ahead.  The 
successful conservation and management of fish stocks 
in  the  Pacific  is,  pure  and  simple,  good  business  for 
everyone. 

Climate change was again singled out by Pacific 
leaders  during  their  just-concluded  summit  as  the 
single  greatest  threat  to  the  livelihoods,  security  and 
well-being  of  the  peoples  of  the  Pacific.  Natural 
catastrophes  are  capable  of  destruction  that  devastates 
entire  communities.  From  the  tragic  experiences  that 
our  country  has  endured,  we  know  of  the  great  pain 
from  the  loss  of  lives,  the  destruction  of  property  and 
the  setback  to  the  national  economy  that  disasters  are 
capable of inflicting. 

It is therefore imperative that adequate resources 
be  available  and  that  they  may,  indeed,  be  accessed 
with ease through different direct modalities in order to 
assist  countries 
their  mitigation  and 
adaptation  programmes.  The  Copenhagen  Green 
Climate  Fund  is  now  in  the  design  phase.  The 
representatives  of  Governments  and  experts  involved 
would  do  well  to  pay  attention  to  the  existing  climate 
change funding architecture so that the shortcomings of 
other funding mechanisms are not repeated. 

Without  the  necessary  financial  resources  and 
technical  support,  Samoa’s  ability  to  adapt  to  and 
mitigate  climate  change  will  be  severely  curtailed. 
Thankfully,  Samoa  continues  to  benefit  under  the  fast 
start  finance  window,  both  bilaterally  and  through 
regional  projects  made  available  by  the  generous 
support  of  our 
traditional  and  new  development 
partners, such as Australia, China, the European Union, 
Japan,  New  Zealand,  Italy,  the  Asian  Development 
Bank, the Global Environment Facility, the World Bank 
and  the  United  Nations,  to  name  but  a  few.  We  are, 
indeed, very, very grateful. 

Countries  in  different  parts  of  the  world  look  to 
the  United  Nations  and  its  stronger  members  for 
peacekeeping arrangements to give those communities 
in  strife  time  to  re-establish  and  to  find  lasting 
solutions.  Samoa  continues  to  lend  its  unwavering 
support to that aspect of the United Nations mandate. I 
reaffirm  that  support,  which  is  underpinned  by  my 
11-51372 

7 
joins 
the 
It 
Samoa 
is  our 
(see  A/65/PV.19). 
A/66/PV.23 

country’s  contribution  and  the  involvement  of  our 
police  officers  in  the  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations  in  the  Sudan,  Liberia  and  Timor-Leste. 
Additionally, Samoa continues to be an integral part of 
the  Regional  Assistance  Mission  to  Solomon  Islands 
under the umbrella of the Pacific Forum. 

Samoa warmly welcomes the admission of South 
Sudan  as  the  United  Nation’s  newest  member  in  July 
this year. 

international  community’s 
support for the courage of the people of Tunisia, Egypt, 
Libya and now Syria in seeking relief from oppression 
and in gaining the freedoms and human rights to which 
they are rightly entitled. 
At  this  rostrum  a  year  ago,  I  did  not  expect  the 

Arab  spring,  and  spoke  in  earnest  of  the  hope  that 
progress  would  come  in  the  then  historic  process  to 
bring  permanent  peace  to  the  peoples  of  Israel  and 
Palestine 
long-held 
conviction  that  an  independent  Palestinian  nation, 
taking its rightful place in our global family and living 
side  by  side  with  a  secure  Israel,  is  the  only  road  to 
permanent peace. However, while we all know that that 
is  the  sensible  outcome  that  must  be  achieved,  it  will 
sadly 
remain  elusive  without  a  clear  sense  of 
commitment and willingness by both sides to negotiate 
in good faith. 

For  genuine  and  permanent  peace  between 
Palestine  and  the  State  of  Israel,  there  must  be  direct 
negotiations between the two countries. Addressing the 
symptoms,  but  not  the  root  causes  of  the  conflict  is 
short-sighted  and  the  result  unsustainable.  Solutions 
must be decided by the two parties, not imposed from 
outside.  Without  that  strong  buy-in  from  the  Israelis 
and Palestinians themselves, any solutions will, at best, 
be short-lived. More than ever, visionary leadership, on 
both sides, that sees beyond the immediate dictates of 
short-sighted  interests  and  that  is,  instead,  willing  to 
seize  the  opportunity  to  fashion  a  just  and  durable 
peace settlement, is critically needed at this point. 

and 
manifestations,  is  responsible  for  the  horror  and  fear 
that  have  continued  to  grip  the  world’s  attention.  No 
country  is  immune  from  the  reaches  of  terrorism,  and 
we  are  all  affected  to  varying  degrees.  Terrorist  acts 
committed  under  whatever  pretext  or  purpose  can 
never  be  justified  as  morally  acceptable.  Equally, 
countering  terrorism  does  not  confer  immunity  from 
Terrorism, 
various 
forms 
its 
in 

present-day 
the rule of law, nor the abandonment of the principles 
of a civilized society. 

No country can win the war against terrorism on 
its  own.  Only  by  pooling  our  resources  and  working 
collaboratively with each other can we stand a chance 
of defeating that senseless menace. Samoa, despite the 
heavy cost, is doing its best to meet our obligations in 
that collective effort. 
Modest progress has been achieved in the efforts 

to  reform 
the  Security  Council.  Samoa  remains 
convinced  that  an  expanded  Security  Council  that 
mirrors 
for 
multilateralism  and  for  the  Council’s  integrity  and 
credibility.  Increases  in  both  the  permanent  and  the 
non-permanent categories should be part and parcel of 
the reform package. 
the  General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Trade  of 
the 
Independent  State  of  Samoa  for  the  statement  he  has 
just made. 

Mr. Tuilaepa Sailele Malielegaoi, Prime Minister 
and Minister for Foreign Affairs and Trade of the 
Independent  State  of  Samoa,  was  escorted  from 
the rostrum. 
The  President:  On  behalf  of 
essential 
realities 
is 



  Address by Mr. Meltek Sato Kilman 
Livtunvanu, Prime Minister of the Republic  
of Vanuatu 
The  President:  The Assembly  will  now  hear  an 

address  by  the  Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of 
Vanuatu. 

Mr.  Meltek  Sato  Kilman  Livtunvanu,  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Vanuatu, was escorted 
to the rostrum. 
The  President: 

in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Meltek  Sato  Kilman 
Livtunvanu,  Prime  Minister  of 
the  Republic  of 
Vanuatu,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly. 
joins  other 

delegations  in  congratulating  you,  Mr.  President,  on 
your election to preside over the General Assembly at 
its  sixty-sixth  session.  My  delegation  vows  our  full 
cooperation,  and  believes  that,  with  your  leadership, 
we will conclude a successful session. 
Mr.  Kilman  (Vanuatu):  Vanuatu 
I  have  great  pleasure 
8 

11-51372 
long-standing  disputes 



Allow  me  to  also  acknowledge  the  leadership  of 
your predecessor, His Excellency Mr. Joseph Deiss, for 
his  exceptional  guidance  and  for  the  considerable  and 
important  achievements  of  the  previous  Assembly 
session. 

In the same spirit, on behalf of my Government, I 
take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  His  Excellency 
Ban  Ki-moon  on  his  re-election  to  the  post  of 
Secretary-General and to  commend him on his  vision, 
leadership  and  tireless  efforts  in  moving  towards 
achieving the common interests of all humanity. 

I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to 
congratulate  the  Government  and  the  people  of  the 
Republic  of  South  Sudan  on  the  birth  of  their  new 
nation on 9 July. Vanuatu recognizes the sovereignty of 
South  Sudan,  and  offers  the  young  nation  our  full 
support.  

The  theme  of  this  year’s  General  Assembly 
session,  “The  role  of  mediation  in  the  settlement  of 
disputes  by  peaceful  means”,  calls  for  more  creative 
and feasible peaceful multilateral solutions to many of 
our 
resolved 
peacefully,  will  have  far  more  extensive  global 
consequences.  The  settlement  of  disputes  by  peaceful 
means  is  central  to  the  United  Nations  system,  as 
enshrined  in  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  in 
numerous international conventions and treaties. In that 
context,  we,  like  many  others,  encourage  our  brothers 
and  sisters  in  Israel  and  Palestine  to  continue  the 
peaceful  negotiations  that  will  ensure  regional  and 
global  stability. We  also  call  upon  the  United  Nations 
to  visit  the  framework  with  which  it  fulfils  its 
mediation mandates and to develop closer partnerships 
with  mediation  actors  within  regional  groups.  To 
succeed  as  responsible  nations  of  this  global  village, 
we  must  continue  to  cultivate  an  environment  that 
thwarts the seeds of bitterness, hatred and vengeance. 
In establishing the United Nations in 1945, many 

nations,  great  and  small,  entrusted 
the 
responsibility  to  assist  in  maintaining  international 
peace  and  security,  developing  friendly  relations 
among  nations,  and  promoting  social  progress,  better 
living  standards  and  human  rights.  However,  66  years 
after the founding of this multilateral Organization, the 
world that we live in is far from the ideals for which its 
inception was intended. Across the globe, people from 
all walks of life continue to be subject to colonial rule, 
death  threats,  arbitrary  detention,  torture  and  worse, 
that,  unless 
it  with 
A/66/PV.23
and are killed for exercising their rights to freedom of 
expression.  Untold  crimes  against  humanity  and  other 
human rights atrocities still continue. 

While  we  reaffirm  our  faith  in  multilateralism, 
with  the  conviction  that  bilateral  diplomacy  cannot 
substitute for multilateralism, we also believe that our 
nations  have  a  greater  need  of  a  more  robust 
multilateral  system  that  is  swift  and  efficient  in 
responding to the multitude of challenges that members 
of  this  highly  esteemed  system,  acting  unilaterally, 
would be hard done to defeat. We are delighted to note 
that  one  of  the  four  priorities  of  the  President  of  the 
General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session  is  to 
continue  the  work  on  the  reforms  within  the  United 
Nations. 

In  that  context,  this  year’s  establishment  of  the 
Change Management Team within the Organization, in 
particular, is a step in the right direction. That initiative 
comes at a time when members of this body are calling 
on the United Nations to play a more prominent role in 
a  period  of  rapid  change  and  financial  restraint  in 
building a culture of transparency, accountability, good 
governance and enhanced democratic participation, and 
to achieve efficiency and results. 

As  regards  the  Security  Council,  Vanuatu  is 
steadfast  in  its  belief  that  reform  measures  must 
provide  for  democratic  and  geographically  strategic 
representation 
the 
non-permanent  membership  to  reflect  the  realities  of 
this  century.  We  continue  to  lend  our  invaluable 
support to the candidacies of the many countries vying 
for  membership  within 
the  non-permanent  seat 
category  of  the  Security  Council.  We  hope  that 
sustained  reforms  will  help  to  boost  the  Security 
Council’s peacekeeping role and to increase efficiency 
and  transparency  in  promoting  the  universal  standards 
and common values and customs that form the basis of 
global  security  and  development. At  this  juncture,  let 
me  acknowledge  the  work  of  the  peacekeeping  and 
nation-building  missions  of  the  United  Nations  in 
supporting  new  countries,  such  as  Timor-Leste,  South 
Sudan and others, in their nation-building. 

On  9  September  2011,  we  marked  the  tenth 
anniversary  of  the  twin  towers  bombing  that  wreaked 
havoc in the city of New York and claimed more than 
3,000  lives.  Such  acts  of  terrorism  can  never  be 
justified,  whatever 
to  be 
the  permanent  and 
they  claim 
in  both 
the  causes 
11-51372 

9 

towards 
A/66/PV.23 

advancing  and  to  whatever  grievances  they  claim  to 
respond. 

Despite international efforts to counter terrorism, 
major threats remain. Indeed, the world cannot sit idly 
by,  watching  the  forces  of  evil  threaten  humanity’s 
right to peace and security. Terrorism cannot and must 
not  be  allowed  to  flourish.  Vanuatu  condemns,  in  the 
strongest  possible  terms,  all  forms  and  manifestations 
of terrorism, and calls on all countries to join forces to 
fight against its evil ideologies, activities and financing 
in order to make the world of tomorrow a safer place. 
All  countries  must  work  closely  in  eliminating  that 
scourge. 

Today,  the  lack  of  progress  on  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation,  cornerstones  of  global  security,  is 
disturbing.  The  world’s  nuclear  Powers  must  fulfil 
their vows to meet their obligations under the Treaty on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear  Weapons  to  take 
decisive  and  practical  steps 
irreversible 
disarmament.  Only  then  will  the  proliferation  of  arms 
reverse. 

My  people  welcome  the  strenuous  efforts  of 
President  Obama  and  other  world  leaders,  working 
together  at  the  vanguard  to  advance  negotiations  on 
denuclearization.  The  very  recent  events  in  Japan’s 
Fukushima  Daiichi  nuclear  disaster  clearly  show  that 
whatever  safeguards  are  in  place,  there  can  be  no 
absolute  guarantee 
the 
unforgivable  ferocity  of  Mother  Nature.  They  are 
important lessons for us. 
Four years after the global financial crisis began, 

in  2007,  the  economies  of  many  developed  countries 
continue 
financial  markets 
worldwide with fresh fears of impediments, default and 
possible  recession.  For  small  developing  countries, 
such as Vanuatu, the rise in food prices, high fuel costs, 
soaring  commodity prices, fears of a global recession, 
as  well  as  the  other  unforeseen  effects  of  the  global 
financial  instability  and  uncertainty  that  remain  in 
many  developed  countries,  are  having  multifaceted 
consequences. 

Such  developments,  coupled  with  the  ongoing 
effects  of  climate  change  and  natural  disasters, 
continue  to  threaten  the  economies  of  small  island 
nations,  and  to  undermine  all  efforts  towards  the 
Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) to ensure that 
sustainable development is achieved. 
those  can  withstand 
struggle, 
stirring 
that 
to 
the 
the 
engaging 
community 
international 
their  determinants 
that  we  can  better 
Vanuatu  has  made  some  progress 

towards 
achieving the MDGs, but much more needs to be done 
by pooling our own resources at the national level and 
by 
in 
coordinating efforts so as to achieve our MDGs. 

The  convening  of  this  year’s  thematic  group  on 
non-communicable  diseases  (NCDs)  is  indeed  timely. 
In my country, it is estimated that approximately 75 per 
to  NCDs. 
cent  of  deaths  each  year  are  related 
Furthermore, 
immediate  causes  of 
the  NCD 
epidemic  —  tobacco  use,  unhealthy  diets,  physical 
inactivity  and  the  harmful  use  of  alcohol  —  are 
becoming  increasingly  widespread  in  our  society, 
especially in urban areas. Those self-inflicted diseases 
are,  therefore,  becoming  a  major  barrier  to  our  socio-
economic  development  and 
to  achieving  healthy 
islands and the MDGs.  

At this point in time, my country is undertaking, 
for  the  first  time,  a  national  NCD  STEPS  survey  to 
determine and to better understand the burden and the 
in  our 
extent  of  NCDs  and 
communities  so 
target  our 
intervention  efforts  in  future.  Early  this  year, Vanuatu 
launched  its  revised  NCD  strategy  and  policy  for  the 
period  2011  to  2016  to  guide  our  implementation 
efforts in the coming years. We have also implemented, 
over  the  years,  many  key  NCD  strategies  to  empower 
our people to increase control over their health and its 
determinants,  with  the  assistance  of  our  development 
partners,  such  as  the  World  Health  Organization,  the 
Australian Agency  for  International  Development  and 
the Secretariat of the Pacific Community. 

In  terms  of  economic  performance,  Vanuatu’s 
economy  grew  at  an  unprecedented  average  rate  of 
6 per  cent  between  2003  and  2008.  Economic  growth 
has  since  weakened,  mainly  as  a  result  of  exogenous 
shocks  felt  during  the  ongoing  global  financial  crisis. 
That has had a negative impact on Government revenue 
in  the  past  few  years,  adding  further  strain  on  the 
economy. That  said,  the  need  for  significant  increases 
in financial support from development partners remains 
pressing. The announcement of a considerable increase 
in  credit  facilities  at  the  Group  of  Twenty  London 
summit  in  2009  was  welcome  news.  However,  the 
reassertion  of  those  financial  commitments  and  swift 
action need to be rigorously followed up by the donor 
community. 
10 

11-51372 
the  peoples  of 



The  previous  assessment  by  the  United  Nations 
Committee  for  Development  Policy  of  Vanuatu’s 
development  status  as  a  least  developed  country  has 
showed  a  progressive  pace  in  development.  While 
graduation may be imminent, I must underscore, before 
the Assembly, that most challenges of the small island 
developing  States  are  permanent.  The  challenges  of 
smallness, the distance to major metropolitan markets, 
extreme  vulnerability  to  natural  disasters  and  climate 
change, the sea-level rise and vulnerability to tsunamis 
all  constitute  permanent  characteristics  of  our  island 
nations. It is therefore important for the United Nations 
to  ensure  that  multilateral  mechanisms  for  graduation 
and  a  transition  package  must  not  be  detached  from 
those  permanent  realities.  We  are  delighted  that  the 
President  of  the  General Assembly  has  vowed  to  pay 
special attention to vulnerable States such as ours. 

Climate  change  and  ocean  acidification  remain 
the  single  greatest  threat  to  the  livelihoods,  security 
and  well-being  of 
the  Pacific, 
particularly  for  small  low-lying  Pacific  islands.  High 
greenhouse  gas  emitting  industrialized  countries  must 
start  to  embrace  and  to  accept  the  common  but 
differentiated  responsibilities  in  historic  contributions 
to climate change. 

As the former Chair of the Pacific Islands Forum, 
I,  along  with  my  fellow  leaders  of  the  Pacific  Island 
nations,  particularly  welcome  the  historic  visit  of 
Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  to  the  Pacific.  I  call 
on  the  United  Nations  to  undertake  more  senior 
missions to the Pacific region so as to establish a more 
comprehensive  understanding  of  how  susceptible  the 
people  of  the  Pacific  are  to  the  adverse  impacts  of 
climate change and sea-level rise,  as  embodied by the 
case of Kiribati. 

I call on leaders of advanced nations to renew and 
honour their pledges to finance, in particular, efforts to 
help the most vulnerable communities to address their 
adaptation needs in order to ensure that island nations 
survive  the  impending  global  disaster  that  climate 
change  may  afford.  An  increased  global  fund  to 
strengthen  the  capacity-building  efforts  of  vulnerable 
communities, in particular, to integrate climate change 
into economic policies and actions, is pressing. 

As  we  prepare  for  the  Conference  of  the  Parties 
to  the  United  Nations  Framework  Convention  on 
Climate  Change  (COP  17) 
in  Durban,  my 
Government urges all delegations to work tirelessly to 
talks 
A/66/PV.23
The  mandate  of 
pledge  to  a  second  commitment  period  of  the  Kyoto 
Protocol.  Durban  must  advance  all  aspects  of  the 
climate  change  negotiations  and  devise  strategies  to 
operationalize  the  COP  16  decisions  if  any  concrete, 
balanced and ambitious outcomes are to yield results. 

Colonialism and all forms of imperialism must be 
addressed by the United Nations, for one of the reasons 
why  the  United  Nations  system  was  created  was  to 
develop  friendly  relations  among  nations,  based  on 
respect  for  the  principles  of  equal  rights  and  the  self-
determination  of  peoples.  Therefore,  colonial  rule  is 
obsolete  and  must  be  addressed  with  new  drive  and 
vision. The United Nations, as well as the international 
community,  must  continue  in  their  efforts  to  address 
issues  of  decolonization  in  those  Non-Self-Governing 
Territories that still yearn for freedom.  

the  Special  Committee  on 
Decolonization must be strengthened. All means should 
be  accorded  to  the  Committee  to  allow  it  to  magnify 
the  suppressed  voices  of  the  peoples  in  all  Non-Self-
Governing Territories that are still under the control of 
administrative Powers, especially where serious human 
rights violations are reported. 

My  country, Vanuatu,  was  the  last  in  the  Pacific 
region  to  be  decolonized.  Since  our  independence  in 
1980,  we  have  continued 
the 
inalienable  rights  of  the  colonized  indigenous  peoples 
of  Oceania  and  in  certain  parts  of  the  Asian  region, 
where  either  administrative  or  colonial  Powers  still 
retain authority. 
My  Government  also  calls  upon  the  United 

Nations 
the  demands  for  French 
Polynesia’s right to self-determination are not rejected. 
We,  along  with  many  other  Pacific  island  nations, 
support  calls  for  the  reinstatement  of  the  French-
administered Territory with the United Nations Special 
Committee on Decolonization. That would be the first 
major  step  in  the  process  of  their  self-determination. 
Vanuatu  encourages  the  French-administered  Territory 
of  French  Polynesia  and,  in  the  same  spirit,  that  of 
New  Caledonia 
to  seek  meaningful 
dialogue  with  France  in  order  to  find  ways  to  ensure 
that the freedom of the colonized peoples of Oceania is 
fully realized. 

Enshrined  in  the  core  principles  of  the  United 
Nations  Charter,  the  Organization  must  guarantee 
universal respect for the human rights and fundamental 
freedoms of all the oppressed. The universal pursuit of 
to  speak  out  for 
to  continue 
to  ensure 
that 
11-51372 

11 

the 
A/66/PV.23 

democratic reform, good governance and adherence to 
human  rights  conventions  have  often  concealed  the 
suffering  of  many  people,  denying  them  their  right  to 
decide  their  destiny  without  fear  or  reprisal.  The 
United Nations must step up its efforts to exercise their 
freedom  from 
tentacles  of  foreign  rule,  so 
troublesome a misgiving in these modern times. 

One  day,  all  the  indigenous  peoples  of  Oceania 
and  beyond  must  reach  their  goal  of  freedom,  a 
destination  promised  to  all  humanity  and  a  right  that 
the  Creator  endowed  upon  all  peoples  and  that  no 
earthly  Power  can  deny,  to  determine  where  they  live 
and  to  be  self-ruled  in  free  association  with  the 
international community of nations. 

Let  me  take  this  opportunity  once  again  to 
reiterate to this eminent Assembly our serious concerns 
over the infringement by foreign forces on the political 
freedom of many of our nations today, a right denied to 
the  people  of  the  land  to  exercise  their  freedom  to 
control their lands, a freedom denied by the injustices 
of the global world order that demarcated many of our 
lands,  dividing  peoples,  families  and  cultures  and 
disconnecting  us  from  the  traditions  of  our  ancestors. 
Denying the right of a country to exercise its political 
freedom  over  its  maritime  territorial  boundaries  and 
preventing  the  indigenous  people  of  a  country  from 
exercising  their  culture  and  traditional  linkages  with 
integral  part  of 
time 
immemorial,  remain  one  of  the  greatest  crimes  of  our 
times. We  are  therefore  calling  on  the  United  Nations 
to ensure that our fundamental rights can be exercised 
in all parts of our territory. 

Mr.  Allam-mi  (Chad),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
As  the  world  unites  in  addressing  some  of  the 

major  challenges  of  our  times,  the  lifting  of  the 
economic  embargo  on  Cuba  is  long  overdue.  Denying 
the good people of Cuba from fully participating in the 
global  economy  is  inhumane.  T  is  high  time  that  the 
Cuban  people  be  allowed  to  enjoy  their  rights  and 
freedom as an independent and sovereign nation. 

It is time that we all revisit the aspirations and the 
ideals  with  which  the  United  Nations  system  was 
created  and 
injustice, 
colonialism, poverty, hunger, war crimes, terrorism and 
the  like  in  the  hope  of  creating  a  peaceful  and  secure 
world  for  generations  to  come. All  nations,  great  and 
small, must respect each other’s sovereignty, for that is 
lands,  sovereign  since 
to  weed  out 
forces 
join 
its 
to 
this 
I  wish 
In  conclusion, 
the  way  to  achieve  trust  and  to  ensure  a  dignified 
confidence among all friends gathered around the table 
of the United Nations. 

I  also  welcome  Fiji’s  commitment  to  full  and 
democratic  elections  by  September  2014. As  a  Pacific 
neighbour, such as announcement is timely. 
final 

take 
opportunity  to  express  my  gratitude  to  Vanuatu’s 
development partners for the support that they provide 
in  building  our  economy.  I  believe  that  more  can  be 
done  to  help  small  vulnerable  island  countries  like 
Vanuatu  to  address  the  rising  challenges  confronting 
them. 

Leaders  of  the  world,  the  resounding  echoes  of 
history drum in our ears and remind us of what must be 
done tomorrow. The global forces driving the changes 
that will shape our future must beckon towards a world 
where  people  of  all  races,  ethnicities,  creeds,  beliefs, 
faiths,  cultures,  traditions  and  origins  can  live  in 
harmony and peace, as brothers and sisters.  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime  Minister  of  the  Republic  of  Vanuatu  for  the 
statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Meltek  Sato  Kilman  Livtunvanu,  Prime 
Minister of the Republic of Vanuatu, was escorted 
from the rostrum. 



  Address by Mr. Danny Philip, Prime Minister of 
Solomon Islands  
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of Solomon Islands. 

Mr.  Danny  Philip,  Prime  Minister  of  Solomon 
Islands, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 

great pleasure in welcoming His Excellency Mr. Danny 
Philip, Prime Minister of Solomon Islands, and inviting 
him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Philip  (Solomon  Islands):  Solomon  Islands, 

with  much  pride,  wishes  to  thank  our  Secretary-
General,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  for 
honouring  my  country  with  a  historic  visit  earlier  this 
month.  He  is  the  first  Secretary-General  to  have  set 
foot  on  a  Pacific  small  island  developing  State  with 
least  developed  country  (LDC)  status.  His  re-election 
12 

11-51372 


to  a  second  five-year  term  speaks  to  his  strong 
conviction 
in  advancing  multilateralism  and  his 
attentiveness  to  the  challenges  facing  all  members, 
including  the  vulnerable  countries.  We  once  again 
pledge our support to the Secretary-General during his 
second term in office. 

Let me take this opportunity to acknowledge  the 
leadership  and  tireless  work  of  Mr.  Joseph  Deiss  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  during  the  past 
session, and to congratulate the President of the current 
session  on  his  election.  I  am  confident  that,  under  his 
leadership,  the  responsibilities  of  the  United  Nations 
will be strengthened, especially at a time when there is 
nervousness  in  world  markets,  with  the  threat  of  a 
possible  double-dip  recession  becoming  more  real 
every day; a time when the world is witnessing unrest 
in  Asia,  riots  in  Europe  and  famine  in  the  Horn  of 
Africa; a time when the narrow interests and ambitions 
of  some  are  being  cycled  through  the  United  Nations 
system,  thereby  harming  the  principles  for  which  this 
Organization stands. 

In  this  respect,  the  theme  for  the  sixty-sixth 
session,  “The  role  of  mediation  in  the  settlement  of 
disputes by peaceful means”, is fitting and timely. The 
Organization  was  set  up  to  preserve  peace  for  all,  not 
conditional  peace  for  some.  It 
is  about  honest 
international  cooperation  built  on  a  spirit  of  optimism 
and  positivism.  It  is  about  interaction  between  States 
with  a  sense  of  duty  and  an  awakened  conscience  to 
effect  change.  Multilateral  diplomatic  and  political 
initiatives need to take centre stage instead of military 
solutions,  which  may  lead  to  lengthy  and  protracted 
conflicts. 

The role of mediation in Solomon Islands is about 
creating  a  common  voice  among  the  87  different 
languages  spoken  in  the  country.  The  Government 
remains committed to building a cohesive multicultural 
society  with  equal  opportunities  for  all.  The  Solomon 
Islands Ministry of National Unity, Reconciliation and 
Peace,  along  with 
the  Truth  and  Reconciliation 
Commission, is in its third year of continuing to build 
bridges  between 
formerly  conflicting  parties  by 
conveying  a  message  of  tolerance,  respect,  dialogue 
and understanding among Solomon Islanders. 

I  am  pleased  to  say  that  my  Government  is 
reforming  and  improving  our  democratic  system  by 
setting the goal of continuing national consultations on 
the Political Parties’ Integrity Bill, introduced in 2009 
A/66/PV.23
to 
in 
implementing 
the  various 
in  LDCs  and  small 
by  the  previous  Government.  We  are  developing  a 
comprehensive policy to identify legislation that needs 
to be reviewed or enacted. 
Solomon  Islands  has  set  itself  progressively 

ambitious  goals  within 
international 
frameworks. We can achieve all of those goals only by 
having focused a relationship with the United Nations. 
We  feel  that  the  United  Nations  needs  to  engage  in 
special  outreach  to  countries  with  special  needs, 
especially those lagging furthest behind, so as to assist 
them 
the  outcomes  of  global 
agreements.  To  make  a  difference,  the  international 
community must honour its commitments, and do so by 
giving sufficiently to ensure that the required economic 
transformation  occurs 
island 
developing States (SIDS). 

Multilateralism  has  provided  the  basis  for  our 
foreign policy. We opened a second Permanent Mission 
to the United Nations, in Geneva, in June this year, and 
would  like  to  see  our  action  reciprocated  with  an 
enhanced United Nations country presence in Solomon 
Islands. We  have  an  over-regionalized  United  Nations 
system  that  has  seen  problems  grow  in  the  Pacific. 
Small  as  we  are,  three  of  our  Pacific  countries  have 
experienced  conflict  over  the  past  two  decades,  and 
five of the 12 are listed as least developed countries. 

Today, non-communicable diseases (NCDs) claim 
six in every 10 lives in the Pacific. Non-communicable 
diseases  are  pandemic  in  the  region.  In  that  regard, 
Solomon Islands has put in place a non-communicable 
diseases  strategic  plan  for  the  period  2011-2015. 
Prevention remains the cornerstone of our NCD policy, 
as  does 
the  development  of  our  primary  health 
coverage across the country. We will continue to need 
sustained external support in the short to medium term 
so that we can implement our NCD programmes. 

Solomon  Islands,  as  a  least  developed  country, 
applauds  the  adoption  in  May  of  the  10-year  Istanbul 
Programme of Action for the least developed countries. 
The  Programme  provides  an  opportunity 
lift 
880 million people within the international community 
out  of  poverty.  The  48  LDCs  have  developed  a 
programme with the ambitious target of seeing half of 
the  LDCs  graduate  by  2020.  The  programme  focuses 
on investing in the productive sectors of LDCs in order 
to  tackle  our  development  challenges  by  triggering 
stable,  sustained  and 
inclusive  economic  growth. 
Partnership is critical to support investment in income-
11-51372 

13 

rural 
Islands 
agricultural 
development 
the  call  for 
Solomon  Islands  supports 
A/66/PV.23 

generating  activities,  employment  creation,  infrastructure 
development, 
and 
investment  in  smallholder  farmers.  Solomon  Islands,  in 
reaching out to the 85 per cent of its population living 
in  rural  areas,  is  currently  implementing  parallel 
sectoral  and  constitutional  reforms  and  land  reform 
programmes. 

the 
Secretary-General to conduct structured discussions on 
a  post-2015  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs) 
agenda. As we all must realize and admit, we will fall 
short of achieving the Millennium Development Goals 
come  2015.  The  review  must  examine  the  means  of 
achieving  the  social  and  development  goals.  That 
means  looking  at  the  MDGs  from  a  sustainable 
development  perspective.  Solomon 
looks 
forward to that discussion. 

On  climate  change,  we  call  on  the  Secretary-
General to garner the necessary political will from our 
developed  partners  to  adopt  a  second  commitment 
period in Durban under the Kyoto Protocol. This would 
avoid a gap between the first and second commitment 
periods  and  would  be  sufficient  to  ensure  the  survival 
of  all  vulnerable  people  and  prevent  climate  change 
impacts from reaching irreversible levels. 

Problems  associated  with  climate  change  are 
growing  challenges  for  our  country.  We  are  taking 
several  practical  measures.  The  Government 
is 
planning the relocation of our national referral hospital 
to higher ground. Efforts to build a resilience policy on 
food  and  water  security  are  progressing  under  the 
adaptation programme. Our climate  change challenges 
are  growing,  and  fast-track  funds  promised  two  years 
ago must be made available to vulnerable countries as 
a  matter  of  real  urgency.  Solomon  Islands  is  in  the 
process  of  establishing  economic  growth  centres 
throughout the country, and we are looking at powering 
these centres with renewable energy, which we view as 
a necessity and a condition for growth. 

Solomon  Islands  is  grateful  for  the  growth  of 
South-South  cooperation  and  its  policy  engagement 
within the international community, especially support 
from  such  countries  as  Cuba,  India  and  Papua  New 
Guinea. We also welcome new non-traditional partners 
with  our  region,  including  Luxembourg,  Georgia  and 
Italy,  who  have  rendered  support  and  are  instrumental 
in  complementing  the  support  from  our  traditional 
partners the European Union, Australia, New Zealand, 
the Republic of China and Japan. 

Solomon  Islands,  as  a  post-conflict  country, 
remains  engaged  with 
the  Australia-led  Regional 
Assistance  Mission  to  the  Solomon  Islands  (RAMSI), 
with  support  from  New  Zealand  and  other  Pacific 
Islands  Forum  member  countries.  The  Secretary-
General,  during  his  recent  trip  to  my  country,  had  a 
bird’s  eye  view  of  the  achievements  of  RAMSI  in  the 
restoration  of  law  and  order  and  the  reform  of  our 
economic  and  governance  systems.  My  country 
remains grateful to all our Pacific neighbours for their 
support  and  reiterates  that  any  winding  down  of 
RAMSI  activities  should  be  done  in  a  calculated  and 
responsible manner.  

We continue to seek homegrown solutions within 
the  region.  The  Melanesian  Spearhead  Group  has 
agreed  to  establish  a  Melanesian  regional  police 
academy,  bringing  together  Fiji,  Papua  New  Guinea, 
Vanuatu  and  Solomon  Islands  discipline  forces  to 
respond to emerging needs, from disasters to conflicts. 
Solomon Islands hopes to join Fiji, Vanuatu and Papua 
New  Guinea  in  having  its  police  force  participate  in 
United Nations missions. Work is still in progress, and 
we hope to conclude it soon. 

Within  my  region,  Solomon  Islands  continues  to 
support  the  inscription  of  the  French  territory  of  New 
Caledonia  on  the  United  Nations  decolonization  list 
and  will  extend  similar  support  to  French  Polynesia, 
working  with 
the 
Administrator. In particular, the Melanesian Spearhead 
Group  countries  strongly  support  the  inscription  of 
New  Caledonia 
for 
decolonization. 
The current international system has pushed us to 

the  edge  of  our  finite  natural  resources.  The  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  in 
Rio  next  year  will  be  another  global  opportunity  to 
identify  gaps  within  existing  sustainable  development 
frameworks,  from  the  Barbados  Programme  of Action 
and the Mauritius Strategy, which recognize the special 
situation  of  small  island  developing  States,  to  the 
Istanbul  Programme  of Action  for  LDCs. We  strongly 
urge signatory countries to honour their commitments. 

the 
negotiations  scheduled  for  late  this  year.  Already,  we 
are  in  the  midst  of  preserving  the  last  global  stock  of 
tuna by creating the world’s first sustainable industrial 
stakeholders, 
Polynesia 
including 
Solomon 
forward 
Islands 
looks 
to 
all 
and 
French 
14 

11-51372 
Solomon 
Islands  believes 
in  each  other’s 


fishing  industry  through  a  subregional  intergovernmental 
mechanism.  Fisheries  remain  our  source  of  food  and 
income,  and  we  will  need  to  maximize  returns  from 
these  resources  in  a  sustainable  manner  by  bringing 
together  three  pillars  of  sustainable  development  on 
equal  footing  and  in  a  balanced  and  sustainable 
manner. 

Solomon  Islands  is  host  to  the  regional  Pacific 
Islands  Forum  Fisheries  Agency,  and  we  continue  to 
register  our  interest  in  hosting  the  regional  marine 
scientific  and  technological  centre  of  the  United 
Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea to advance 
marine  scientific  research  in  the  Pacific  region  and  to 
foster  the  transfer  of  marine  technology  for  the 
development of our ocean and marine resources. 

in  dialogue  and 
engagement  with  all  countries  of  the  world,  including 
Fiji.  We  do  so  within  the  framework  of  the  United 
Nations  Charter  and  the  Melanesian  Spearhead  Group 
principles,  with  mutual  respect  for  each  other’s 
sovereignty and territorial integrity, mutual non-aggression, 
non-interference 
internal  affairs, 
equality, mutual benefit and peaceful coexistence with 
each other. We would like to encourage all States to do 
likewise. 

I  am  equally  pleased  to  say  that,  since  my 
Government came into office some 14 months ago, we 
have established relations with more than 27 countries 
and will continue to reach out to all countries to ensure 
that  Solomon  Islands  remains  connected 
in  our 
interlinked  world.  On  this  note,  I  welcome  a  new 
member  to  our  family  of  nations,  South  Sudan.  We 
offer  South  Sudan  our  friendship  and  look  forward  to 
working with it on all issues of common concern to our 
countries. 

The  51-year-old  economic  blockade  of  Cuba 
remains  an  issue  stuck  in  time.  Solomon  Islands,  in  a 
spirit of friendship and in observation of the principle 
of  good  neighbourliness,  makes  a  humble  call  on  our 
partner  and 
the 
unconditional lifting of the economic blockade against 
the  people  of  Cuba.  We  request  that  the  two  States 
renew,  restore,  revive,  redeem  and  reclaim 
their 
friendship  and  respect  for  each  other’s  sovereignty 
within  the  letter  and  spirit  of  the  United  Nations 
Charter. 
Solomon Islands will host the eleventh Festival of 

Pacific  Arts  next  year  to  celebrate  and  promote  the 
the  United  States, 
friend, 
for 
A/66/PV.23
to 
the 
support 
look  forward 
languages.  We 
unique  and  diverse  indigenous  cultures  of  the  Pacific. 
The Festival will give us an opportunity to express our 
sense  of  pride,  awareness  and  recognition  of  the 
“Pacificness”  of  the  isolated  communities  within  the 
Pacific  and  to  develop  and  preserve  a  deep  sense  of 
solidarity  and  unity  through  our  ancient  music,  body 
art,  dances  and 
to 
receiving our guests in 2012. 

On  the  long-standing  conflict  in  the  holy  land, 
Solomon Islands supports the work of the Quartet. We 
note  that  more  than  two-thirds  of  United  Nations 
Member States recognize Palestine as a State. Solomon 
Islands,  in  the  name  of  peace,  believes  that  the 
international  community  must  have  the  strength  and 
stamina  to  act  decisively,  build  on  the  two-State 
solution  and  overcome  the  distrust  that  exists  in  the 
region multilaterally. 
On  Security  Council  reform,  Solomon  Islands 

continues 
intergovernmental 
negotiations on expansion in the number of permanent 
and non-permanent seats of the Council. My delegation 
is  mindful  of  the  fact  that  the  most  recent  Security 
Council  reform  occurred  in  1965.  The  world  has 
changed since then. We need to streamline the current 
negotiating text within our informal intergovernmental 
negotiation  process  and 
island 
developing  States  in  calling  for  a  non-permanent  seat 
in  the  Security  Council  explicitly  for  small  island 
developing States. 

On the issue of human rights, I am pleased to say 
that Solomon Islands has submitted its national human 
rights  report  to  the  Human  Rights  Council.  For  a 
developing  country,  the  right  to  development  is  the 
core  of  the  country’s  policy.  Putting  people  at  the 
centre  of  development,  their  meaningful  participation 
and the fair distribution of national wealth and benefits 
will bring peace to an angry man, feed a hungry child 
and empower our womenfolk. 

My  delegation  would  like  to  acknowledge  the 
change  in  nomenclature  within  the  53-member  Group 
of  Asian  States  to  the  Asia  and  the  Pacific  Small 
Islands Developing States Group. This is an important 
development  and  truly  represents  the  diversity  of 
membership  that  exists  within  the  Asia  Group.  We 
applaud  our  Asian  colleagues  for 
taking  such  a 
decision. 
On the issue of gender, Solomon Islands has huge 

challenges, to the extent that it will seek a regional seat 
join  other  small 
11-51372 

15 

A/66/PV.23 

within  the  Executive  Board  of  United  Nations  Entity 
for Gender Equality and the Empowerment of Women. 
Solomon Islands is presenting its candidate as a Pacific 
SIDs-endorsed  candidate,  and  with  the  support  of  the 
Assembly it hopes to give an LDC and SIDS flavour to 
the Board. 

On  Taiwan  cross-strait  relations,  my  delegation 
continues  to  commend  the  ongoing  dialogue  between 
the  Republic  of  China  on  Taiwan  and  the  People’s 
Republic  of  China.  We  note  Taiwan’s  continuous 
contributions to the global health system in terms of a 
wide  range  of  international  development  programmes, 
and  welcome  its  participation  as  an  observer  to  the 
World  Health Assembly.  We  continue  to  call  for  such 
arrangements  to  be  extended  to  other  United  Nations 
treaty bodies, including the United Nations Convention 
on  Climate  Change 
the 
meaningful  participation  of  Taiwan  and  its  people  in 
the  affairs  of  the  international  community.  Solomon 
Islands  also  acknowledges  Taiwan’s  climate  change 
mitigation  and  renewable  energy  programmes  with 
developing  countries,  and  would  like  to  see  the 
application  of  similar  observer  arrangements  extended 
to Taiwan within the UNFCCC. 
Let  me  conclude  by  expressing  once  again  my 

delegation’s  confidence 
translating  our  global 
agenda  into  action  within  the  next  12  months.  Many 
lives depend on that. On behalf of the Government and 
people  of  Solomon  Islands,  I  assure  the  Assembly  of 
our support and cooperation.  

The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 
behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Primer  Minister  of  Solomon  Islands  for  the  statement 
he has just made. 

Mr. Danny Philip, Prime Minister of the Solomon 
Islands, was escorted from the rostrum. 
(UNFCCC) 
to  ensure 
in 



  Address by Lord Tu’ivakano of Nukunuku, 
Prime Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs, 
Defence, Information and Communication of 
the Kingdom of Tonga 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister,  Minister  of  Foreign  Affairs,  Defence, 
Information  and  Communication  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Tonga. 
to 
16 

11-51372 

for 
As 
for 
Foreign 
the  ongoing 
Lord  Tu’ivakano  of  Nukunuku,  Prime  Minister, 
Minister 
Affairs,  Defence, 
Information  and  Communication  of  the  Kingdom 
of Tonga, was escorted to the rostrum. 

The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 
great  pleasure  in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Lord 
Tu’ivakano of Nukunuku, Prime Minister, Minister for 
Foreign Affairs, Defence, Information and Communication 
of the Kingdom of Tonga, and inviting him to address 
the General Assembly. 
Lord Tu’ivakano (Tonga): Like others who have 

spoken  before  me,  allow  me 
to  add  my  warm 
congratulations  to  Mr.  Al-Nasser  on  his  election  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  for  our  current 
session. My delegation and I assure him, as always, of 
our  support  and  cooperation.  I  also  wish  to  thank 
Mr. Joseph  Diess  of  Switzerland  for  a  successful  term 
as  President  at 
the  sixty-fifth  session.  We  also 
remember  another  former  President  of  the  Assembly, 
Mr. Harri Holkeri of Finland, who passed away earlier 
this  year  but  who  left  a  lasting  impact  on  the  good 
work of the General Assembly and the United Nations. 

the 
Organization,  I  wish  to  extend  my  congratulations  to 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon on his appointment to 
a  deserved  second  term.  He  and  the  Secretariat 
continue to show the firm resolve needed during these 
challenging times of global crisis. We pay tribute also 
to the memory of those members of the Secretariat who 
have  made  the  ultimate  sacrifice  in  the  line  of 
international duty. 

A  further  example  of  the  critical  role  played  by 
the  Secretary-General  during  these  difficult  times  was  the 
convening  earlier  this  week of  the High-level  Meeting  on 
the prevention and control of non-communicable diseases 
(NCDs). The dangerous potential of NCDs, unchecked 
in small States like mine, threatens not just livelihoods 
and  lifestyle  but  whatever  gains  may  have  been 
achieved  as  they  relate  to  Millennium  Development 
Goal (MDG) 6 and the other MDGs. 

At  our  annual  meeting  of  Pacific  Island  Forum 
leaders  in  Auckland  earlier  this  month,  we  adopted  a 
statement  on  NCDs  in  which,  among  other  things,  we 
committed our Governments to implementing five key 
reduce  NCDs: 
interventions 
increasing 
Controlling 
physical  activity, 
and 
facilitating access to essential drugs and technologies. 
in  areas  known 
tobacco, 
reducing  alcohol 
improving  diets, 
leadership  of 
intake 



In  that  respect,  Tonga  was  pleased  to  join  other 
Member  States  in  adopting  the  Political  Declaration 
(resolution  66/2,  annex)  of  the  High-level  Meeting  on 
the  prevention  and  control  of  NCDS.  I  sincerely 
believe  that  the  Meeting  was  a  good  step  in  the  right 
direction  for  setting  a  healthier  and  enjoyable  future 
for us all. 

We  were  pleased  that  the  Secretary-General  was 
able to visit a number of countries in our region on his 
way  to  his  historic  attendance  at  the  Pacific  Islands 
Forum. He was able to assess for himself the dominant 
impact  of  climate  change  on  countries  in  the  Pacific 
and  to  validate  the  activities  of  Pacific  small  island 
developing  States  like  Tonga  in  international  forums. 
We  must  use  the  positive  foundations  laid  down 
collectively in Copenhagen and Cancún to embrace the 
promise  that  might  lie  in  Durban  at  the  seventeenth 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
in 
December. 

We  are  pleased  that,  in  July,  under  the  able 
presidency of Germany, the Security Council took solid 
steps to seize the moral imperative by holding an open 
debate  and  producing  a  presidential  statement  on  the 
Maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  and 
the impact of climate change (S/PRST/2011/15*). The 
Council  and  its  membership,  now  and  in  the  future, 
must  not 
to  keep 
themselves  in  a  position  of  leadership  over  this  issue 
and its implications for Member States like Tonga and 
others in the Pacific. 

While  last  year’s  High-level  Meeting  on  MDGs 
offered  small  island  developing  States  like  Tonga  an 
opportunity  to  take  stock  of  their  progress  towards 
achieving  those  Goals  in  2015,  we  consider  that  we 
have a similar chance to do so as we all prepare for the 
United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
next  year.  We  stress  the  critical  importance  of  the 
sustainable development, management and conservation of 
our  ocean  and  marine  resources  — 
living  and 
non-living  —  as  a  proper  source  of  livelihood  and 
income 
for  our  communities  and  Governments. 
Ensuring that States like  ours enjoy  a greater  share of 
the  benefits  derived  from  such  resources  is  key. What 
we  within  the  Pacific  small  island  developing  States 
have  come  to  refer  to  as  the  “blue  economy”  will  be 
our  challenge  to  the  Rio  Conference  to  meet  the 
expectations  and  development  aspirations  of  our 
peoples. 
their  vigilant  duty 
turn  from 
A/66/PV.23
to  observe 
As  such,  Tonga  continues 

its 
obligations  under  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the  Law  of  the  Sea  and  notes  the  decision  taken  by 
consensus by the States parties this year relating to the 
workload  of  the  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the 
Continental  Shelf,  whose  work  is  much  valued  by 
coastal  States  such  as  mine.  Tonga,  together  with 
another  sister  State  from  the  region,  again  actively 
participated  in  the  work  of  the  International  Seabed 
Authority  this  year  and  noted  the  decision  by  the 
Authority  to  grant  exploration  licenses  to  entities 
sponsored  by  our 
respective  Governments.  This 
represents  a  creative  path  for  States  like  mine,  within 
the spirit of the Convention, towards solid partnership 
and development. The common heritage of mankind, if 
it is to have any true meaning, ought to be common to 
all and not just to some or the few with the capacity in 
that area. 

Tonga  reiterates  its  call  for  the  creation  and 
definition  of  a  formal  small  island  developing  States 
category  within  the  United  Nations  system. We  are  in 
need of a definition that is not based upon a one-size-
fits-all  approach.  Like  others,  we  must  have  a 
definition  that  separates  and  addresses  those  States’ 
diversity of size, population, remoteness, isolation and 
different levels of socio-economic development. Such a 
definition would not only improve linkages within the 
United Nations system but also, we believe, set a good 
benchmark for the international community that is both 
coherent and practical. It would strengthen the position 
of  the  United  Nations  and  the  international  system  in 
addressing  small  island  developing  States  and  the 
special and unique challenges they face. 

Like  others,  we,  too,  welcome  the  Republic  of 
South Sudan as our newest State Member of the United 
Nations. Tonga has long been supportive of the efforts 
to find a comprehensive, just and enduring peace in the 
Middle  East.  The  shifting  sands  of  change  known  as 
the  Arab  Spring  throughout  the  surrounding  region 
earlier  this  year  has  made  such  a  peace  and  genuine 
security  all  the  more  challenging,  but  not  impossible. 
This  is  indeed  a  moment  of  truth  for  those  with 
genuine hope, not just for a secure Israel and a viable 
Palestine, but for those who for so long have had such 
hopes for an ambitious peace. 

Tonga’s  interest  in  developing  renewable  energy 
sources,  within  the  context  of  our  Tonga  energy  road 
map,  continued  to  evolve  with  our  election  to  the 
Council of the International Renewable Energy Agency 
11-51372 

17 

that,  within 
included 
A/66/PV.23 

(IRENA) at the first session of the Agency’s Assembly, 
in April  2011.  We  will  work  in  earnest  to  ensure  that 
the  voices  of  developing  States  such  as  Tonga  and 
others  on  the  new  Council  are  heard,  given  the  key 
leading  role  it  will  play  in  the  Agency’s  decision-
making  and  future  direction.  To  take  on  such  a  role, 
IRENA  must  be  prepared  to  be  innovative.  The 
Agency’s work will take on greater significance in the 
coming  International  Year  of  Sustainable  Energy  for 
All  and  its  related  activities.  I  would  also  like  to 
recognize the strong support of the Government of the 
United Arab Emirates as host State for IRENA. 

I  am  pleased  to  have  addressed  the Assembly  as 
the  first  democratically  elected  Prime  Minister  of 
Tonga. In the wake of the elections held in November 
of  last  year,  I  took  office  the  following  month,  in 
December,  after  an  evolving  process  of  principal 
the  context  of  our  1875 
reforms 
Constitution, 
the  peaceful 
transfer  of 
executive power from His Majesty in Privy Council to 
the Government of the day; a Parliament in which the 
majority of members are elected by universal suffrage; 
a  Prime  Minister  elected  by  a  majority  of  the  elected 
Members  of  Parliament;  a  Cabinet  nominated  by  the 
Prime  Minister  and  chosen  largely  from  those  elected 
Members  of  Parliament;  a  constitutional  monarchy; 
and a strong and independent judiciary free of political 
influence. 

the 
fundamental freedoms and values guaranteed under the 
Constitution  continue  to  afford  legal  protection  and 
comforting reassurance to all Tongans. 

To  address  the  uncertain  future  of  the  current 
global economic and financial climate, my Government 
has  approved 
strategic  development 
framework,  which  provides  an  overall  framework  to 
guide  the  Government’s  activities  for  the  next  four 
years.  It  involves  nine  priority  areas,  from  building 
strong, inclusive communities to improving health and 
education  standards  for  a  safe,  secure  and  stable 
Tongan  society.  Earlier  this  month,  my  Government 
signed 
the  Asian 
Development  Bank  and  the  World  Bank  to  improve 
information  and  communications  technology  services 
for  Tonga  so  as 
them  affordable  and 
accessible. Improving such services will enable Tonga 
its 
to 
enhance 
and 
Government 
services  as  well.  My  Government 
sincerely  believes  that  this  framework  will  put  Tonga 
related  education,  health 
this  peaceful  evolution, 
agreements  with 
Notwithstanding 
the  Tonga 
separate 
to  make 
the  ongoing  work  and 
on a firm path to improving its ability to meaningfully 
achieve  the  United  Nations  Millennium  Development 
Goals by 2015. 

As  such,  in  closing  my  Government  happily 
reaffirms  its  commitment  to  the  principles  of  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  and  we  pledge  to 
support 
the 
Organization. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  On 

behalf  of  the  General  Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the 
Prime Minister, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Defence, 
Information  and  Communication  of  the  Kingdom  of 
Tonga for the statement he has just made. 

Lord  Tu’ivakano  of  Nukunuku,  Prime  Minister, 
Minister 
Affairs,  Defence, 
Information  and  Communication  of  the  Kingdom 
of Tonga, was escorted from the rostrum.  
reform  of 
Foreign 
for 



  Address by Mr. Abdiweli Mohamed Ali, Prime 
Minister of the Transitional Federal 
Government of the Somali Republic 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  The 

Assembly  will  now  hear  an  address  by  the  Prime 
Minister of the Transitional Federal Government of the 
Somali Republic. 

Mr. Abdiweli Mohamed Ali, Prime Minister of the 
Transitional  Federal  Government  of  the  Somali 
Republic, was escorted to the rostrum. 
The Acting  President  (spoke  in  French):  I  have 

in  welcoming  His  Excellency 
great  pleasure 
Mr. Abdiweli  Mohamed  Ali,  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Transitional  Federal  Government  of 
the  Somali 
Republic, and inviting him to address the Assembly.  
Mr. Ali  (Somalia):  Let  me  take  this  opportunity 

to  congratulate  Mr.  Al-Nasser  on  his  election  as 
President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth 
session. I would also like to congratulate the Secretary-
General  on  his  appointment  to  a  second  term.  We 
Somalis  would  like  to  thank  him  for  his  leadership  in 
putting  Somalia  at  the  top  of  the  agenda  despite  so 
many competing priorities. We hope that Somalia will 
become peaceful and stable during his tenure. 

It is my honour to address the General Assembly 
for the first time as Prime Minister of Somalia. I come 
here  mindful  of  the  enormous  challenges  at  this 
important moment in our history and determined to act 
18 

11-51372 
founded  on 


boldly in the cause of peace, justice and stability — not 
only in the Horn of Africa but on the African continent 
at large and in the world as a whole. 

The  United  Nations  was 
the 
conviction  that  the  nations  of  the  world  could  come 
together  in  a  spirit  of  cooperation  to  tackle  their 
common  problems  for  the  sake  of  the  whole  of 
humankind.  I  wish  to  speak  of  the  challenges  facing 
Somalia, whose effects have found ample expression in 
the  current  dire  situation  in  the  country,  and  some  of 
which threaten every country represented here. 

Let  me  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  the  Prime 
Minister  of Turkey  for  his  genuine  leadership  and  for 
highlighting  the  plight  and  suffering  of  those  affected 
by  the  famine  in  Somalia.  The  seemingly  unending 
humanitarian  crisis  in  Somalia  has  many  and  varied 
causes.  Decades  of  conflict,  the  demise  of  the  central 
State,  poor  and  kleptocratic  leadership  and  struggles 
between  clans  for  limited  resources,  exacerbated  by 
cycles  of  devastating  droughts,  have  created  chronic 
food  shortages  and  an  underdeveloped  economy,  and 
driven the population to despair. 
In  recent  years,  the  global  terrorist  organization 

Al-Qaida  has  sought  to  exploit  these  divisions  and 
weaknesses to plot and carry out attacks on the rest of 
the  world.  Our  people  know  only  too  well  the 
destruction  that  a  few,  blinded  by  an  ideology  of 
extremism and terror, can wreak on a country. It is this 
small  minority,  and  primarily  the  Al-Qaida  affiliated 
group  Al-Shabaab,  that  is  responsible  for  the  famine 
currently  spreading  throughout  the  country,  through 
their  policies  of  systematically  looting  grain  stores, 
forcibly  recruiting  and  extorting  farmers  and  their 
families  and  preventing  access  by  aid  agencies  to  the 
most affected regions in the south. 

However,  the  threat  they  pose  is  not  limited  to 
our  borders.  Foreign  fighters  have  sought  to  export 
their  noxious  extremism  to  the  rest  of  the  Horn  of 
Africa,  recruiting  and  sponsoring  acts  of  terror  in 
neighbouring  countries  such  as  Uganda,  where  last 
year they murdered 76 innocent people. The insecurity 
they  have  created  in  southern  Somalia  has  led  to  a 
large  influx  of  refugees  into  Kenya  and  Ethiopia, 
straining resources and spreading instability across the 
region. 

They  are  also  actively  planning  to  strike  further 
afield. Just this week, one of the leaders of Al-Shabaab 
said  that  the  group  was  committed  to  continuing  its 
A/66/PV.23
battle  against  the  Government  of  Somalia  and  was 
seeking  to  destroy  both  the  United  States  and  the 
United Nations. It is also well-known that Al-Shabaab 
has  been  focusing  its  recruitment  and  radicalization 
efforts  on  Somali  diasporas  in  Australia,  Europe, 
Canada and the United States of America. 

Clearly,  the  battle  against  Al-Qaida  is  one  in 
which  we  all  have  a  stake,  and  in  which  we  all 
therefore  have  responsibilities.  In  Somalia,  we  have 
been doing what we can, within our limited resources, 
to fulfil our obligations in this regard. Barely a month 
after United States forces killed Osama bin Laden, one 
of  his  most  wanted  deputies,  Fazul  Abdullah 
Mohammed,  was  shot  dead  by  Somali  security  forces 
on the outskirts of Mogadishu. Shortly thereafter, with 
the  aid  of  African  Union  forces,  the  Somali  National 
Army succeeded in forcing the extremists to withdraw 
the bulk of their forces from the capital. As a result, we 
can  now  begin 
to  provide  needed  humanitarian 
assistance  to  the  city’s  ever-increasing  population  of 
internally displaced persons, who are fleeing the areas 
still  held  by  the  extremists  where  the  famine  has  hit 
hardest. 

Although the extremists’ retreat from Mogadishu 
is  a  welcome  development,  it  may  herald  a  new  and 
more  dangerous  phase  of 
they 
increasingly turn to asymmetric tactics such as suicide 
bombings and the use of improvised explosive devices 
that  target  the  civilian  population.  As  we  continue  to 
build up our  own capacities, our security agencies  are 
alert  to  this  threat  and  have  already  successfully 
disrupted  a  number  of  planned  attacks,  including 
several targeting the hungry at feeding centres. 

Terrorism  preys  on  decaying  States,  exploiting 
their  poverty  and  ungoverned  spaces  to  radicalize, 
recruit  and  plan.  That  is  why  the  extremists  have 
consistently  fought  against  the  Somali  peace  process 
and sought to destroy the institutions it has generated. 
to 
Somalia’s 
achieve 
entrench 
democratic governance. Three weeks ago, with the help 
of  our  international  partners,  we  hosted  the  first 
national  consultative  conference  in  Mogadishu,  at 
which  the Transitional  Institutions  and  representatives 
of  regional  administrations  came  together  to  adopt  a 
road  map  for  the  re-establishment  of  permanent, 
legitimate  and  representative  Government 
the 
country. 
leaders  are  redoubling 
national 
reconciliation 
the  conflict,  as 
their  efforts 
and 
in 
11-51372 

19 

the 
A/66/PV.23 


The  conference,  which  was  the  culmination  of 
Somali-led reconciliation initiatives dating back to the 
Arta Declaration of May 2000, represents the best hope 
for  Somalia  to  establish  a  firm  political  foundation 
from  which  to  rebuild.  The  road  map  is  a  significant 
achievement for the Somali peace process. Its adoption 
marks  the  first  of  many  steps  on  the  path  to  the 
eventual  conclusion  of  the  transition  process  in  a 
responsible  and  productive  manner.  It  has  also  shed 
light on the remaining transitional tasks, including the 
drafting  and  promulgation  of  a  new  Constitution.  The 
Transitional  Federal  Institutions  have  committed  to 
meeting the specific timelines and benchmarks for their 
implementation as outlined in the road map, which will 
allow the Somali people to monitor our performance in 
this regard. 

The  support  of  the  international  community  is 
also  crucial  to  ensuring  its  success.  Indeed,  the 
conference  itself  could  not  have  taken  place  without 
the  continued  engagement  of 
international 
community.  Let  me  also  take  this  opportunity  to 
express gratitude, on behalf of my entire nation, to the 
African Union, and especially Uganda and Burundi, for 
the  support  they  have  given  and  the  sacrifices  they 
have  made  to  date  in  this  worthy  cause. The  fact  that 
the  conference  was  safely  held  in  Mogadishu  is 
testimony  to  the  achievements  in  security  that  their 
forces have made possible in the city. I must also thank 
all  the  countries  represented  here  for  the  bilateral  and 
multilateral  support  given  to  both  the  Transitional 
Institutions and the African Union Mission in Somalia 
(AMISOM),  without  which  none  of  what  has  been 
achieved would have been possible. 

Going forward, as we embark on the final leg of 
the  transition  process,  we  will  continue  to  need  the 
help and support of the United Nations. The road map 
has illuminated the path and, although dangers may lie 
in the shadows, we will not deviate from it. We ask that 
the  Organization  continue  to  accompany  us  on  this 
journey  and  to  provide  the  needed  resources  as  we 
advance towards full sovereignty. 

Despite the remarkable progress we have made so 
far,  our  gains  remain  fragile  and  consolidating  them 
will  require  resilience  and  unity  from  all.  It  is  critical 
that  the  Somali Army  and AMISOM  be  reinforced  as 
soon  as  possible,  so  they  can  prevent  a  security 
vacuum in the areas of Mogadishu recently vacated by 
the  fleeing  extremists,  and  ensure  that  the  city  is  safe 
for  both  residents  and  aid  workers.  The  immediate 
deployment of the extra 3,000 AMISOM troops already 
authorized  by  the  Security  Council  will  be  a  crucial 
first step. 

In  addition,  we  must  also  begin  to  show  the 
people  the  fruits  of  peace  and  democracy  and  to 
reverse  the  harmful  effects  of  radicalization.  Somalia 
needs  the  help  of  the  outside  world  to  rebuild  its 
economy  and  provide  jobs  for  the  millions  of  our 
young people who have been deprived of opportunities 
by the anarchy of the past two decades. We must show 
them that there is a better alternative to the barrel of a 
gun. 

The effort must begin at home. Let me be the first 
to acknowledge that we Somalis have made mistakes in 
the  past,  which  eroded  the  international  community’s 
trust  in  our  institutions.  Somalia  can  and  must  do 
better.  In  this  time  of  national  crisis,  we  the  Somali 
people  must  set  aside  our  differences  and  come 
together  to  confront  our  perils.  Reconciliation  must 
become  our  mantra  as  we  work  to  further  the  peace 
process  and  create  an  environment  conducive  to  the 
delivery  of  aid.  We  in  the  political  class  must  also 
accept our responsibility for the errors of the past and 
resolve  to  do  better.  The  Somali  people  have  had 
enough  of  war,  hunger,  political  wrangling  and 
corruption.  They  demand,  and  indeed  deserve,  a 
Government  that  puts  the  national  interest  before 
personal  ambition  —  one  that  fosters  unity,  not 
division. 

The  Transitional  Federal  Government  is  making 
efforts to reverse this and to instil a sense of patriotism 
and  responsibility.  We  are  making  good  progress  in 
injecting  professionalism  and  transparency  into  the 
revenue  collection  and  economic  management  system, 
strengthening 
the 
distribution of Government money and creating a more 
open and accountable fiscal and monetary system.  

The  Central  Bank  of  Somalia  is  up  and  running. 
The economic reforms we have made have resulted in 
the  doubling  of  revenue  from  the  Mogadishu  seaport 
and  quadrupled  those  from  the  Aden  International 
Airport.  The  funds  are  being  reinvested 
the 
provision  of  services  to  the  people  as  our  current 
capability  allows.  For  example,  15  per  cent  of  the 
revenue  collected  from  the  seaport  has  been  set  aside 
for  the  rehabilitation  of  the  city.  As  a  result,  for  the 
first  time  in  20  years,  Mogadishu  is  being  cleared  of 
rubble,  roads  are  being  repaired  and  streets  lit,  and 
internal  mechanisms  governing 
in 
20 

11-51372 


markets, hospitals and schools are reopening. A register 
containing  the  names  and  biometric  data  of  all  the 
members of the security forces has been compiled, and 
our soldiers are receiving their allowances regularly. 

As  required  by  the  road  map,  we  have  also 
embarked  on  the  process  of  identifying  nominees  for 
the  Interim  Independent Anti-Corruption  Commission. 
We are also formulating a national fiscal budget for the 
coming fiscal year. 

As with the gains in the security sector,  in order 
to entrench and safeguard these reforms and to deliver 
on  the  expectations  of  the  Somali  people,  we  in  the 
Transitional Federal Government must improve on our 
performance  and  create  the  necessary  conditions  for 
the growth of the Somali economy. However, the scale 
of the challenge is such that we will continue to rely on 
the help of our international partners.  

It is understandable that, in the prevailing global 
economic environment, many in the wealthier countries 
will  be  tempted  to  look  to  their  own  problems,  to  the 
detriment  of  providing  aid  and  investment  to  their 
poorer  cousins  in  the  developing  world.  I  would 
caution  against  this. The  visionaries  who  founded  this 
body  understood  that  it  was  impossible  to  secure 
economic  benefits 
the  global 
population  as  long  as  these  remained  a  distant  dream 
for  the  rest,  and  sought  to  establish  an  interlinked 
global  political  and  economic 
that 
ensured that citizens in every country could participate 
in,  and  partake  of  the  fruits  of,  global  prosperity.  I 
therefore urge the international community to continue 
its  generous  support  for 
the  emerging  economic 
institutions,  as  we  strive 
rebuild  destroyed 
infrastructure  and  jump-start  economic  activity  in  the 
areas our forces are securing. 
To  the  business  community  I  would  say  that 

Somalia 
truly  Africa’s  sleeping  giant,  and  a 
relatively  small  investment  there  will  go  a  long  way. 
With  the  longest  coastline  on  the  continent,  bountiful 
and  unexploited  natural  wealth  and  an  entrepreneurial 
tradition that dates back to the Roman times, a peaceful 
Somalia  will  be  a  force  for  moderation  and  an  engine 
of  growth  and  prosperity  for  the  region  and  for  the 
continent.  

Furthermore,  the  integration  of  Somalia  into  the 
global economy will have a considerable and beneficial 
impact on the phenomenon of piracy  from our shores, 
which imposes huge costs on global trade. As has been 
for  a  section  of 
infrastructure 
to 
is 
A/66/PV.23
has 
been 
per 
created.  As 
noted  by  many  observers,  a  lasting  solution  to  this 
menace  is  not  to  be  found  in  policing  the  high  seas. 
The  regeneration  of  a  vibrant  economy  on  land, 
providing  jobs  and  opportunity  for  all,  is  the  sole 
antidote.  

The  humanitarian  situation  in  Somalia  remains 
dire. The United Nations has declared famine in a sixth 
region,  which  means  that  up  to  half  the  population  is 
now  facing  the  prospect  of  starvation.  Many  of  our 
people continue to come to the capital seeking refuge, 
with  more  than  half  a  million  others  having  already 
arrived. To  deal  with  this  situation  and  to  oversee  the 
delivery  of  humanitarian  assistance,  a  high-level 
committee 
its 
recommendations,  the  Government  has  established 
several  camps  to  house  and  feed  refugees.  A  disaster 
management  agency,  comprised  of  members  of  civil 
society, has also been established. We are working with 
United  Nations  agencies  such  as  the  Office  for  the 
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, the Office of the 
United  Nations  High  Commissioner  for  Refugees  and 
the World Food Programme to synchronize our efforts 
to deal with the famine. 

On  behalf  of  the  entire  Somali  nation,  I  wish  to 
express my gratitude for the pledges of assistance that 
we have received from Governments and humanitarian 
agencies around the world. The greatest need, however, 
continues  to  be  felt  within  areas  still  under  the 
effective  control  of  the  extremists,  where  access  by 
international  humanitarian 
severely 
restricted.  The  insurgents  are  also  hampering  the 
freedom  of  movement  of  millions  who  are  trying  to 
reach  help,  either  in  Mogadishu  or  in  neighbouring 
countries. 

Mr. Mayr-Harting (Austria), Vice-President, took 
the Chair. 
Without  urgent 

the 
situation,  it  is  estimated  that  up  to  three  quarters  of  a 
million  people  may  perish  in  the  next  few  months. 
Although  normal  to  above-normal  rainfall  is  expected 
to  return  in  the  next  three  months,  that  is  unlikely  to 
result  in  a  significant  easing  of  the  crisis  in  the  short 
term,  since  the  harvest  will  not  be  expected  until 
February.  In  any  case,  the  production  from  the  short 
rainy  season  only  accounts  for  a  third  of  the  total 
annual cereal production. The displacement of farmers 
by  the  current  famine  will  only  further  reduce  the 
expected  yield.  In  fact, 
the  United  Nations  has 
interventions 
to  change 
agencies 
is 
11-51372 

21 

A/66/PV.23 

indicated that it expects the famine to spread to the rest 
of the south by the end of the year. 

It is therefore critical that we accelerate efforts to 
reach  those  in  Al-Shabaab-controlled  areas,  while  at 
the same time ensuring that international humanitarian 
workers  are  afforded  a  measure  of  security  against 
attacks  and  kidnappings  by  the  insurgents. As  I  noted 
earlier,  the  international  community  must  urgently 
reinforce our efforts to extend the zone of safety for aid 
workers beyond Mogadishu and into these areas. In the 
meantime,  my  Government  will  continue  to  work 
closely with humanitarian agencies to collect and share 
information  on  needs.  We  stand  ready  to  cooperate 
with  all  actors  to  ensure  that  aid  gets  to  the  most 
critically affected populations, wherever they may be. 

As I stated before, the challenges I have outlined 
have  been  aggravated  by  the  increasing  cycles  of 
devastating  drought  that  we  experience  as  a  result  of 
changes  in  global  climate  patterns. We  in  the  Horn  of 
Africa have been affected more than most. As I speak, 
the  region  is  experiencing  its  worst  drought  in  a 
generation. The scale of the suffering in my country is 
a testament to price we are having to pay. 

There  needs  to  be  a  concerted  effort  not  just  to 
address  the  causes  of  climate  change  but  also  to 
mitigate its adverse effects, especially in countries such 
as  Somalia  that  have  contributed  little  to  the  problem 
but  are  bearing  the  brunt  of  its  consequences.  In  that 
regard,  let  me  reiterate  the  appeal  issued  during  the 
recent summit on the Horn of Africa crisis, held in the 
Kenyan  capital,  Nairobi,  for  developed  nations  to 
facilitate  the  transfer  of  technology  and  build  up  the 
capacity  of  developing  nations  to  adapt  to  these 
challenges. Somalia will require assistance to improve 
water resource management and reduce our reliance on 
rain-fed agriculture even as we strive to implement the 
targets agreed to at the Nairobi summit of 10 per cent 
forest cover and irrigated land by the year 2017. 

Moreover, we fully support the right of Palestine 
to become a full member of the community of nations. 
We  believe 
the 
Palestinian-Israeli  problem,  where  Palestinians  should 
be  allowed  to  live  in  peace  and  dignity  in  their  own 
homeland. We have  all seen the changes happening in 
the  Arab  world.  The  international  community  must 
support  the  peaceful  and  democratic  aspirations  of  all 
peoples.  
two-State  solution 
the 
for 
in 

We  must  also  support  the  National  Transitional 
Council  of  Libya  in  order  to  bring  peace  and  stability 
to that country. 

In conclusion, today, the future of Somalia hangs 
in  the  balance,  and  with  it  the  prospects  for  peace, 
stability  and  prosperity  in  the  Horn  of  Africa  and 
security  for  nations  across  the  world.  Resolute  global 
action  in  support  of  our  efforts  is  now  required  if  we 
are to consolidate and build on the gains already made 
and extend them to the rest of the country for the sake 
of future generations. 

The Acting President: On behalf of the General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  of  the 
Transitional  Federal  Government  of 
the  Somali 
Republic for the statement he has just made. 

Mr. Abdiweli Mohamed Ali, Prime Minister of the 
Transitional  Federal  Government  of  the  Somali 
Republic, was escorted from the rostrum. 



  Address by Mr. Gilbert Fossoun Houngbo, 
Prime Minister of the Togolese Republic 

The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister of the Togolese 
Republic. 

Mr. Gilbert Fossoun Houngbo, Prime Minister of 
the  Togolese  Republic,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum. 

The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Gilbert  Fossoun 
Houngbo,  Prime  Minister  of  the  Togolese  Republic, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly. 

Mr.  Houngbo  (Togo)  (spoke  in  French):  My 
country, Togo,  welcomes  the  election  of  the  President 
of  the  Assembly  to  direct  the  work  of  the  General 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session.  On  behalf  of  the 
Government  and  people  of  Togo  and  on  my  own 
behalf, 
convey  our  warm 
congratulations to him. We wish him every success  in 
accomplishing his noble and exhilarating mission. 
Today more than ever, the ever increasing number 

of  challenges  facing 
the  planet  call  for  greater 
solidarity  to  provide  an  effective  global  solution 
worthy of our peoples’ aspirations. When world leaders 
bringing  forth  their  nations’  ambitions  meet  in  this 
forum to reflect upon the main issues of the hour, it is 
to give their people hope for a brighter tomorrow. 
I  would 
like 
to 
22 

11-51372 
including 



In order to address those various challenges, Togo 
has  for  several  years  endeavoured  to  relaunch  its 
economy  to  achieve  sustainable  development  for  the 
well-being  of  its  people. We  have  made  strengthening 
national unity and good governance, reviving economic 
growth and combating social injustice our rallying cry. 

In  terms  of  political  governance,  Togo  remains 
faithful to its new vision of sharing its victory with all 
stakeholders  of  goodwill,  including  political  parties 
that  have  lost  in  elections.  Above  all,  this  is  about 
emphasizing  the  peoples’  victory  and  not  that  of  any 
political  party.  In  our  opinion,  that  concept  of  power 
should  inspire  all  leaders  who  seek  greater  stability 
following elections. 

Based  on  its  desire  to  strengthen  the  gains  made 
in the area of democratization, the Government of Togo 
supports  the  implementation  of  the  recommendations 
made  by  the  European  Union  election  observation 
mission, 
institutional  and  constitutional 
reforms,  especially  against  the  backdrop  of  the  local 
and  legislative  elections  to  be  held  in  2012.  In  that 
the  policy  of  openness  and 
respect,  faithful 
cooperation 
the 
Government has renewed its dialogue with all political 
and civic stakeholders under its permanent framework 
for  dialogue  and  cooperation  in  order  to  pursue 
discussions on all subjects concerning the management 
of governmental affairs. 

Reconciliation 
Commission,  launched  two  years  ago  with  the  task  of 
promoting  national  reconciliation,  is  currently  at  the 
critical  stage  of  holding  both  public  and  closed 
hearings,  according  to  witness  preference.  That  is  an 
opportunity for all Togolese men and women to talk to 
each  other  about  the  most  painful  moments  of  their 
history and to speak truthfully in order to ensure justice 
and  reconciliation,  thereby  making  it  possible  to  turn 
the page once and for all. 

terms  of  human  rights  and  fundamental 
freedoms, 
the  Government  of  Togo  has  made 
commitments  to  increasing  State  capacities  to  protect 
individuals  and  property  and  guarantee  fundamental 
freedoms in order to prevent Togo’s young democracy 
from losing ground with regard to the progress made in 
shaping its identity, as well as to avert any exploitation 
of  differences.  In  that  regard,  Togo  has  just  provided 
the  governing  body  of  the  Human  Rights  Council  in 
Geneva with its national report in connection with the 
initiated  by  our  head  of  State, 
Justice 
and 
In 
to 
The 
Truth, 
A/66/PV.23
In 
its 
terms  of  economic  governance,  Togo 
universal periodic review that will take place in a few 
weeks.  

Togo  would  like  to  reaffirm  its  determination  to 
honour 
international  commitments.  We  will 
continue to combat all types of human rights violations 
and  to  take  action  against  their  perpetrators.  My 
country  will  therefore  tirelessly  continue  the  work 
already  begun  in  order  to  strengthen  the  gains  of 
democracy  and  peace,  while  making  greater  efforts  to 
implement the Millennium Development Goals. 
is 

pursuing  reforms  for  better  management  of  its  public 
finances,  in  order  to  optimize  domestic  revenues.  We 
are  working  for  a  more  robust  financial  sector, 
privatizing public banks, operationalizing the Court of 
Auditors  and  instituting  a  new  public  tendering  code 
that  is  fully  aligned  with  international  standards.  All 
that  is  in  addition  to  the  steps  we  have  taken  towards 
membership  in  the  Extractive  Industries  Transparency 
Initiative. Among other things, those various measures 
have  allowed  us 
to  successfully  conclude  our 
participation  in  the  Heavily  Indebted  Poor  Countries 
Debt Initiative and to benefit from about $1.8 billion in 
debt  cancellation.  The  broad  ongoing  programme  to 
improve and rehabilitate road infrastructure throughout 
our  national  territory  is  an  illustration  of  the  effective 
implementation  of  this  reform.  On  behalf  of  the 
Government  and  the  people  of  Togo,  I  would  like  to 
thank all our partners that have assisted in our process 
to improve governance.  

This  meeting  is  taking  place  at  a  time  when 
Africa  is  again  threatened  by  famine  such  as  we  have 
not witnessed in 20 years. All countries, as well as the 
United Nations, must take urgent measures to confront 
that  exceptional  situation  if  we  wish  to  avoid  a  large-
scale humanitarian tragedy. 

With respect  to resolving conflict  and promoting 
peace  and  security  throughout  the  world,  which  is  the 
theme  of  this  session,  it  is  encouraging  to  note  that 
significant progress has been made. That is particularly 
in  the  case  in  Africa,  where  peace  and  security  have 
been  restored  in  Côte  d’Ivoire,  thereby  enabling  the 
relaunching  of  socio-economic  activities 
that 
country. 

The peaceful resolution of the lengthy conflict in 
South  Sudan,  which  has  become  the  Organization’s 
193rd Member State, gives us reason to hope that any 
conflict can be resolved acceptably and sustainably so 
in 
11-51372 

23 

A/66/PV.23 

long  as  the  parties  concerned  work  in  good  faith  to 
achieve that goal. 

Also as we meet here, parts of the world continue 
to  face  waves  of  demonstrations  and  uprisings, 
especially  in  Africa.  Those  legitimate  movements 
contribute  to  the  blossoming  of  democracy  for  the 
people  concerned.  In  addition  to  delivering  on  their 
legitimate  expectations,  they  also  help  to  avoid  any 
risk  of  wavering  in  the  medium  term  that  might 
jeopardize  peace  and  national  unity. That  seems  to  be 
true  for  all  conflicts,  because  we  believe  that  no 
sustainable solution is possible outside of negotiation.  

With  regard  to  the  Middle  East,  my  country 
therefore firmly believes that the parties to the Israeli-
Palestinian  conflict  and  the  international  community 
must  continue  to  seek  a  political  solution  to  that  old 
conflict. The Middle East must know peace. Israel and 
Palestine must coexist in two States with well-defined 
borders,  in  peace  and  security.  We  are  fundamentally 
convinced that the aspirations of the Palestinian people 
for  a  national  State  and  those  of  Israel  for  sustainable 
peace  and 
security  are  not  contradictory,  but 
complementary, objectives.  

Despite the many efforts and determination of the 
United  Nations  to  eradicate  terrorism  in  all  its  forms, 
that  scourge  is  gaining  even  more  ground  and  is 
compromising  the  chances  for  building  a  world  of 
peace and security. This year, as we commemorate the 
tenth anniversary of the tragic attacks on 11 September 
2001, the international community and all States must 
continue  to  work  synergistically  so  that  humankind 
will  not  again  experience  such  indiscriminate  and 
wanton  attacks  as  those  of  9/11  or  those  that  recently 
victimized  the  peaceful  people  of  Norway  and  the 
headquarters of the United Nations in Abuja. 

Those crises and conflicts, as well as new threats 
to  international  peace  and  security,  such  as  maritime 
piracy,  cyber  crime  and  drug 
trafficking,  which 
undermine efforts to build peace throughout the world, 
require the international community to rethink the role 
of  the  United  Nations  in  the  context  of  security  and 
socio-economic development. At a time when the West 
African subregion is witnessing an increase in violence 
due  to  drug  trafficking  and  terrorism  in  the  area,  we 
cannot  allow  our  shorelines  to  be  taken  hostage  by 
pirates, as was recently the case in the waters off Benin 
and  Togo.  I  call  for  stricter  cooperation  among  all 
countries to effectively combat this new phenomenon.  
regard 
to 
With 
the  process  of 

As  I  just  said  we  need  to  rethink  the  role  of  the 
United  Nations. While  it  is  widely  acknowledged  that 
nothing can replace the Organization, it is just as true 
that,  65  years  after  it  was  established,  the  United 
Nations  needs  to  be  reformed.  My  country  therefore 
calls  on  Member  States  to  pursue  and  conclude  the 
process of Security Council reform, which began more 
than 15 years ago. Like the majority of Member States, 
Togo  hopes  that  this  General  Assembly  session  will 
provide  us  an  opportunity  to  take  decisive  steps  with 
regard  to  Council  reform.  In  so  doing,  we  have  the 
opportunity 
to  correct  flagrant  and  unacceptable 
injustices  and  to  make  the  Security  Council  truly 
representative  of  all  the  regions  of  the  world,  thereby 
making  it  better  placed  to  resolve  the  crises  and 
conflicts that we face. 

replacing 
non-permanent members of the Council, the Assembly 
will  elect  five  new  members  in  October  to  replace 
those  whose  terms  will  end  on  31  December.  Togo  is 
among the candidates from the Group of African States 
that  are  seeking  the  votes  of  Member  States  in  those 
elections.  

Contrary to the practice observed today in Africa 
with respect to elections to the Security Council, three 
candidates are in the running this year for the two seats 
that  go  to  Africa.  Togo,  whose  candidacy  enjoys  the 
endorsement  of  the  Economic  Community  of  Western 
African  States  and  the  African  Union,  of  course 
attaches great importance to the sovereign right of each 
State  to  apply  for  a  seat  on  any  United  Nations  body. 
However, I would like to ask all delegations to bear in 
mind  the  need  to  see  emerge,  after  the  elections,  a 
Security Council that is balanced and representative of 
all the major regions in Africa, especially West Africa. 

My  country  has  participated  in  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  operations  for  many  years.  We  are 
currently involved in the missions in Côte d’Ivoire and 
the Sudan, and will soon participate in the one in South 
Sudan. We wish to sit on the Council in order to make 
a  contribution,  however  modest,  to  the  work  of  the 
organ  responsible  for  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security.  

If  elected, Togo  will  focus  on  the  importance  of 
preventive  diplomacy  in  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
conflicts  and  the  link  between  peace  and  security,  on 
the  one  hand,  and  social  justice  and  development,  on 
the  other.  We  would  also  not  neglect  combating  the 
24 

11-51372 


scourges  to  which  I  referred  earlier,  as  well  as  new 
threats to international peace and security.  

Togo’s  noble  ambition  can  only  come  to  pass  if 
we  have  the  support  of  delegations  for  our  candidacy. 
It  is  my  hope  that  all  Member  States  will  wish  to 
provide  their  invaluable  support  for  our  candidacy.  I 
wish  very  much  to  thank  them  in  advance  for  their 
support. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Primer  Minister  of  the 
Togolese Republic, for the statement he has just made. 
Mr.  Gilbert  Fossoun  Houngbo,  Primer  Minister 

of  the  Togolese  Republic,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum. 



  Address by Michael Spindelegger Vice-
Chancellor and Federal Minister for  
European and International Affairs of the 
Republic of Austria 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 

hear  an  address  by  the  Vice-Chancellor  and  Federal 
Minister  for  European  and  International Affairs  of  the 
Republic of Austria. 

Mr.  Michael  Spindelegger,  Vice-Chancellor  and 
Federal Minister for European and International 
Affairs of the Republic of Austria, was escorted to 
the rostrum. 
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 

welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Michael  Spindelegger, 
Vice-Chancellor  and  Federal  Minister  for  European 
and  International  Affairs  of  the  Republic  of  Austria, 
and inviting him to address the General Assembly. 
Mr.  Spindelegger  (Austria):  This  year  has  once 

again confirmed the importance of the United Nations 
as 
indispensable  multilateral  forum  for 
addressing  today’s  global  problems. The  humanitarian 
crisis  in  the  Horn  of Africa,  ecological  disasters  such 
as  Fukushima,  political  developments  like  the  Arab 
Spring  and  terrorist  attacks  such  as  the  assault  on  the 
United  Nations  building  in  Abuja  last  August  require 
concerted action by the United Nations and its Member 
States.  Ten  years  after  9/11,  joint  action  in  the  fight 
against  terrorism  continues  to  remain  central  on  the 
multilateral agenda. 

In  the  past  nine  months,  we  have  witnessed 
momentous  changes  in  the  Arab  world  that  nobody 
truly 
the 
A/66/PV.23
the 
and 
against 
violence 
life.  These  are 
the  systematic  human 
expected  when  we  met  one  year  ago.  Pressure  for 
change  is  driven  by  the  wish  of  women  and  men  to 
choose their own fate and to improve their chances for 
a  better 
legitimate  demands.  An 
overwhelming  number  of  young  people  were  at  the 
forefront  of  this  enormous  tide,  which  started  in 
Tunisia  and  Egypt.  We  should  pay  tribute  to  their 
courage. 

In Libya, thousands lost their lives in the struggle 
for  freedom  and  democracy.  In  Syria,  and  to  some 
extent  in  Yemen,  the  suppression  is  ongoing.  Austria 
strongly  condemns 
rights 
violations 
peaceful 
demonstrators.  We  strongly  urge  those  responsible  to 
immediately  stop  the  bloodshed  and  to  engage  in 
meaningful dialogue and reforms. Austria supports the 
Libyan  people  in  its  struggle  for  freedom.  Over 
€150 million  blocked  in  Austrian  bank  accounts  has 
been de-frozen for humanitarian use. Both the Austrian 
Government  and  private 
sector  have  provided 
medicine, relief supplies and desperately needed fuel to 
Libya. 

The  international  community  and  the  United 
Nations  have  to  support  and  assist  the  transition 
process  in  the Arab  world  as  the  United  Nations  does 
now in Libya. This period of change may last for some 
time  and  will  be  full  of  challenges. Austria  welcomes 
all efforts undertaken by Governments in the region for 
peaceful and credible change. We encourage the newly 
empowered  authorities 
to  create  a  constitutional 
framework  based  on  democracy  and  human  rights,  in 
order  to  fulfil  their  mandate  for  democratic  change 
responsibly and peacefully. 

The events in the Arab world notwithstanding, we 
must  continue  to  focus  on  the  Middle  East  peace 
process.  The  Middle  East  took  centre  stage  this  week 
here  at  the  General  Assembly  —  and  rightly  so.  We 
must build trust and we have to foster the belief among 
Israelis  and  Palestinians  that  a  negotiated  settlement 
can be achieved — a sustainable solution based on two 
States  living  side  by  side  in  a  secure  and  peaceful 
neighbourhood  within  mutually  recognized  borders. 
We have no choice but to return to direct negotiations 
between  the  two  parties. The  Quartet,  in  its  statement 
yesterday,  has  shown  a  way  to  do  that  and  has  also 
proposed concrete timelines. Austria fully supports the 
Quartet statement. There is no time to lose. 
11-51372 

25 

the 
to  offer 
The  United  Nations  headquarters 
A/66/PV.23 


Austria welcomes President Al-Nasser’s choice of 
theme  for  this  year’s  general  debate.  We  appreciate 
Qatar’s strong track record in that regard.  

Last  year’s  tenth  anniversary  of  the  adoption  of 
Security  Council  resolution  1325  (2000)  on  women, 
peace  and  security  reminded  us  that  the  promise  of 
women’s  full  and  equal  participation  in  all  efforts  of 
maintaining peace and security, including in mediation 
processes, has not yet come true and that we all need to 
intensify our efforts. 
In  that  context,  let  me  also  mention  an Austrian 

contribution  to  international  mediation  efforts.  By 
inviting political decision-makers from both Khartoum 
and  Juba  to  Vienna  in  recent  years,  Austria  has 
managed 
two  sides  a  platform  for 
discussion.  We  are  ready  to  continue  to  do  so.  The 
Sudan  and  South  Sudan  have  a  shared  past  and  must 
resolve their remaining problems peacefully. 
in  Vienna 

serves  as  a  dynamic  hub  for  the  promotion  of  peace, 
security  and  sustainable  development.  I  am  proud  to 
announce  that  a  liaison  office  of  the  United  Nations 
Office for Disarmament Affairs will open in Vienna soon. 
Over  the  past  year,  the  International  Anti-Corruption 
Academy  set  up  its  headquarters  near  Vienna,  and  the 
Vienna Centre for Disarmament and Non-Proliferation 
and  an office of the International Peace Institute were 
established. 

the  campaign 
Austria 
launched  by  the  Secretary-General  on  Monday  to 
achieve  universal  access  to  modern  energy  services. 
We support doubling the rate of improvement in energy 
efficiency  and  the  share  of  renewable  energy  in  the 
global  energy  mix  by  2030.  Austria  provides 
substantial  support  to  the  energy  and  environment 
efforts  undertaken  by  the  United  Nations  Industrial 
Development  Organization.  Last  June,  we  hosted  the 
Vienna  Energy  Forum,  where  about  1,400  participants 
discussed  alternative  energy  concepts  to  reach  the 
energy goals of the United Nations. 

should 
become  a  turning  point  in  our  approach  to  nuclear 
safety. We owe it to future generations to make safety 
concerns come first when using nuclear power. Austria 
decided,  in  1978,  to  forgo  the  use  of  nuclear  energy. 
Some countries have recently adopted a similar course, 
which we welcome. 
The  Fukushima  nuclear  catastrophe 
stands  behind 
fully 
Austria 
is  firmly  committed 

The  last  time  I  spoke  at  the  United  Nations,  it 
was  during  the  thematic  debate  held  in  April  on  the 
rule  of  law  and  global  challenges.  That  was  an 
important  step  in  the  preparation  of  the  high-level 
meeting  on  the  rule  of  law  that  will  take  place  in 
September  2012.  Next  year’s  meeting  will  provide  an 
important  opportunity  to  renew  the  efforts  of  both  the 
United Nations and Member States to promote the rule 
of  law.  As  a  medium-sized  country  and  as  a  strong 
supporter of multilateralism, Austria attaches particular 
importance  to  the  rule  of  law,  including  at  the 
international  level.  The  international  system  can  only 
properly  function  if  it  based  on  clear  and  predictable 
rules that apply equally to all Member States. 

The promotion and protection of human rights is 
a core priority of Austria’s foreign policy. We are proud 
to  serve  on  the  Human  Rights  Council  for  the  period 
2011-2014.  For  our  membership  in  this  body, Austria 
has  identified  the  following  priorities,  on  which  we 
will take action. 

to  respect  for 
freedom of religion and belief. We are deeply troubled 
by  recurring  attacks  against  religious  minorities  in  all 
parts  of  the  world  and  among  all  religions.  To  foster 
tolerance,  Austria  has  hosted  a  number  of  high-level 
dialogues  between  religious  and  secular  leaders  over 
the  past  decade. We  think  that  that  has  become  a  new 
and  promising  field  of  modern  diplomacy,  putting  the 
emphasis on conflict prevention. 

and 
exploitation  constitute  gross  violations  of  children’s 
rights.  As  a  member  of  the  Human  Rights  Council, 
Austria  will  work  to  address  that  issue  and  to  help 
develop  counter-strategies.  We  highly  appreciate  the 
work  of  the  Special  Representative  of  the  Secretary-
General for Children and Armed Conflict, Ms. Radhika 
Coomaraswamy,  and  we  strongly  support  the  renewal 
of her mandate. 

Racism,  xenophobia  and  discrimination  on  the 
grounds  of  ethnic  origin,  gender,  age, 
sexual 
orientation and religious belief are ongoing challenges 
and of concern to all of us. Austria is committed to the 
fight  against  those  abuses,  including  anti-Semitism. 
Therefore,  we  will  continue  to  press  for  action, 
including in the framework of the United Nations. We 
will also take initiatives during our membership in the 
Human  Rights  Council  to  strengthen  the  protection  of 
journalists against all forms of threat and intimidation. 
trafficking 
Various 
forms 
child 
of 
26 

11-51372 
to  United  Nations 
Austria  has  a  50-year-long 


track  record  of 

contributing 
peacekeeping 
operations. And we will continue our engagement. We 
recently  decided  to  deploy  160 Austrian  troops  to  the 
United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon (UNIFIL), in 
addition  to  our  continued  presence  in  the  United 
Nations Disengagement Observer Force and the United 
Nations  Truce  Supervision  Organization.  Through  its 
participation  in  UNIFIL,  Austria  wishes  to  make  an 
active  contribution  to  the  maintenance  of  peace  and 
security  not  only  in  Lebanon  but  in  the  region  as  a 
whole. 

Austria  welcomes  the  positive  momentum  in 
international  security  policy  over  the  past  couple  of 
years.  We  salute  the  Secretary-General’s  determined 
leadership, 
on 
disarmament. We look forward to continuing our work 
in  this  positive  spirit  at  the  first  meeting  of  the 
Preparatory  Committee  for  the  Review  Conference  on 
the  Treaty  on 
the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons,  to  be  held  in  Vienna  in  May  of  next  year. 
We,  and  hope  for  progress  with  regard 
the 
establishment  of  a  nuclear-weapon-free  zone  in  the 
Middle East. 

have  not  been  able 

Nevertheless,  despite  our  collective  efforts,  we 
to  move  forward  on  new  
including 
to 
his 
five-point 
plan 
A/66/PV.23
in  particular 
disarmament  and  arms  control issues. The multilateral 
machinery,  and 
the  Conference  on 
Disarmament,  remains  deadlocked.  Unfortunately,  the 
momentum that we had hoped to generate over the past 
year has not materialized. Therefore, in Austria’s view, 
the  Conference  on  Disarmament  has  not  only  lost  its 
credibility, it is also risking its legitimacy. Austria will 
therefore encourage the adoption of a draft resolution, 
at  the  next  session  of  the  First  Committee,  on  how  to 
move multilateral disarmament negotiations forward. 

Austria remains committed to multilateralism and 
to 
the  United  Nations  as 
the  noblest  form  of 
international cooperation. We will therefore support the 
efforts  of  the  President  and  the  Secretary-General  to 
further  strengthen  the  Organization  in  order  to  better 
enable us to face the challenges of our time. 
The Acting President: On behalf of the General 

Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-Chancellor  and 
Federal Minister for European and International Affairs 
of Austria for the statement he has just made. 

Mr.  Michael  Spindelegger,  Vice-Chancellor  and 
Federal Minister for European and International 
Affairs  of  the  Federal  Republic  of  Austria,  was 
escorted from the rostrum. 
  The meeting rose at 6.10 p.m. 

11-51372 

27 
