
A/66/PV.50
Official Records
United Nations 
General Assembly 

Sixty-sixth session 

50th plenary meeting 
Tuesday, 8 November 2011, 10 a.m. 
New York 





President: Mr. Al-Nasser  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
(Qatar) 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum. 
11-58372 (E) 
*1158372* 

  The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m. 



Agenda item 112 
Notification by the Secretary-General under  
Article 12, paragraph 2, of the Charter of the  
United Nations 
  Note by the Secretary-General (A/66/300) 


The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  As  members 
are aware, in accordance with the provisions of Article 
12,  paragraph  2,  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations 
and  with  the  consent  of  the  Security  Council,  the 
Secretary-General  is  mandated  to  notify  the  General 
Assembly  of  matters  relating  to  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security  that  are  being  dealt 
with by the Security Council and of matters with which 
the Council has ceased to deal. 

In  that  connection,  the  General  Assembly  has 
before  it  a  note  by  the  Secretary-General  issued  as 
document A/66/300. 

document? 
It was so decided. 


The  President  (spoke  in  Arabic):  May  I  take  it 
that it is the wish of the General Assembly to conclude 
its consideration of agenda item 112? 

May I take it that the Assembly takes note of this 
It was so decided. 


Agenda item 30 
Report of the Security Council (A/66/2)  

The President (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, I 
am  very  pleased  to  welcome  to  the  General Assembly 
the  President  of  the  Security  Council,  His  Excellency 
Ambassador  José  Moraes  Cabral,  who  will  shortly 
present  to  us  the  annual  Security  Council  report 
(A/66/2). 

As  the  Assembly  knows,  genuine  efforts  have 
been  undertaken  in  recent  years  to  strengthen  the 
relationship  between  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
Security  Council.  Under  my  presidency,  I  want  to 
continue  —  and  to  accelerate  —  that  process.  This 
report  is  one  of  the  main  instruments  for  cooperation 
between 
the  Security 
Council.  In  close  dialogue  with  Ambassador  Moraes 
Cabral,  I  have  decided  to  devote  an  entire  meeting  of 
the  General  Assembly  to  the  consideration  of  the 
Council’s report, and to consider separately the agenda 
item  entitled  “Question  of  equitable  representation  on 
and increase in the membership of the Security Council 
and related matters”. I have done so because I deem it 
important  to  consider  each  matter  thoroughly.  I  know 
that  many  Member  States  are  eager  to  be  better 
informed about the work of the Council, and I thought 
it would be appropriate to focus our work this morning 
on the activities of the Security Council only.  

During the reporting period, the Security Council 
faced  tremendous  challenges.  Just  to  cite  a  few 
examples, the Council had to react to the post-election 
crisis in Côte d’Ivoire, the establishment of the State of 
the  General  Assembly  and 










the  General  Assembly  and 
A/66/PV.50 

South  Sudan  and  developments  in  the Arab  world,  in 
particular in Libya, Yemen and Syria. 

On  certain  issues  of  tremendous  importance, 
including  peacekeeping,  post-conflict  peacebuilding 
and  counter-terrorism,  it  is  crucial  that  the  Security 
Council and the General Assembly work hand-in-hand, 
to  ensure  the  success  of  the  Organization  in  its 
endeavours.  Together  with  the  rest  of  the  United 
Nations  system,  the  Security  Council  devotes  a  lot  of 
time  to  cross-cutting  issues,  such  as  the  protection  of 
civilians 
in  armed  conflicts,  children  and  armed 
conflict  and  women  and  peace  and  security.  For  all 
those reasons, today’s meeting is of crucial importance 
to  ensuring  that  we  are  all  working  in  the  same 
direction.  As  President  of  the  General  Assembly,  I 
attach  great  importance  to  strengthening  cooperation 
between 
the  Security 
Council,  to  ensure  better  protection  and  consolidation 
of the values of the United Nations.  

Since  taking  office  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  have  met  with  every  President  of  the 
Security  Council.  We  have  had  intensive  and  fruitful 
discussions  on  how  to  better  coordinate  our  work  and 
to improve the cooperation between us. Our teams have 
been in constant contact to ensure the smooth conduct 
of  the  work  in  both  organs,  to  avoid  conflicting 
agendas  and  to  find  ways  to  work  in  a  common 
direction. I will continue that practice with every new 
President of the Security Council. 

In conclusion, after hearing from the President of 
the Security  Council, I  encourage members to  express 
their  views  on  the  report  of  the  Security  Council.  I 
hope  that  our  discussion  today  will  allow  us  to  make 
progress on strengthening our joint efforts. 

Filipe  Moraes  Cabral,  President  of 
Council, to introduce the report of the Council. 
Mr.  Moraes  Cabral  (Portugal),  President  of  the 

to 
Security  Council:  I  would 
congratulate  you,  Mr.  President,  on  behalf  of  the 
members  of  the  Security  Council,  on  your  election  as 
President of the General Assembly.  

It  is  an  honour  for  me,  as  President  of  the 
Security  Council  for  the  month  of  November,  to 
introduce  the  annual  report  of  the  Security  Council 
(A/66/2).  More  than  a  regular  reporting  exercise 
pursuant  to  the  United  Nations  Charter,  I  see  this 
I  now  give  the  floor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  José 
the  Security 
like,  first  of  all, 
important 
in 
the  most 
the  delegation  of  Germany,  which  held 
moment  as  one  of 
the 
relationship  of  both  principal  organs  of  the  United 
Nations  and  as  an  excellent  opportunity  to  debate  and 
exchange  views  with  the  general  membership  on  the 
report  on  the  work  of  the  Council.  I  am  therefore 
grateful  to  you,  Mr.  President,  for  having  made  it 
possible  this  year  to  devote  an  entire  debate  to  the 
consideration of the Security Council’s annual report.  

The report covers the period from August 2010 to 
July 2011. The introduction to the report was prepared 
by 
the 
presidency  in  July.  I  wish  to  thank Ambassador  Peter 
Wittig  and  his  team  for  their  efforts  in  preparing  the 
introduction, to which I call attention, because it gives 
a helpful overview of the different activities under the 
responsibility  of  the  Council  during  the  reporting 
period. Allow  me  also  to  thank  the  Secretariat,  which 
prepared  the  other  parts  of  the  report  now  before  the 
Assembly.  

I  would  also  like  to  highlight  the  monthly 
assessments  by  each  presidency,  which  are  mentioned 
in  the  report. They  contain  information,  on  a  monthly 
basis, on the most relevant activities carried out by the 
Council  on  each  item  of  its  agenda,  thus  adding  to 
overall  comprehension  of  the  report.  Those  monthly 
assessments  are  an 
regularly 
undertaken  as  part  of  the  responsibility  of  each 
presidency. They aim to inform the wider membership 
about the work of the Council, and I would like to call 
attention to them as well.  

During  the  reporting  period,  between  resolutions 
and presidential statements, the Council adopted nearly 
100  decisions.  That  number  confirms  the  continuing 
trend,  in  recent  years,  of  an  increasing  workload. The 
Council continued to hold a considerable portion of its 
meetings in public — 204 out of a total of 231. Open 
meetings, 
increase 
transparency in the work of the Council and allow for 
enhanced  participation  by  the  wider  membership  and 
the 
the 
Council  and  of 
the  General  Assembly  continued 
throughout  this  year  to  meet  regularly,  and  monthly 
briefings by the Presidents of the Council to the wider 
membership  on  the  Council’s  work  continued  to  be 
held. 

Meetings with troop contributors have also taken 
place  as  a  regular  practice,  in  particular  prior  to  any 
decision  with  impact  on  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
international  community.  Presidencies  of 
important  exercise 
including 
open 
debates, 
2 

11-58372 
the 
note 
507, 
from 
updates 
to  provide 


mandates, as a way to enable collecting relevant inputs. 
Those practices represent useful steps to promote better 
dialogue  with  the  general  membership  on  the  work  of 
the Council. We encourage delegations to make use of 
those opportunities, to increase such interaction.  
The  Council  continued  its  implementation  of 

presidential 
on  working  methods. 
Presidencies  have  promoted  useful  practices  aimed  at 
increasing  efficiency  and  expediency, 
such  as 
streamlining  introductions  made  by  the  President  and 
the  use  of  videoconferences  in  open  briefings  or 
debates 
field. 
Consultations  of  the  whole  are  progressively  more 
interactive  and  flexible.  Council  members  having 
agreed to reduce the use of speakers’ lists and to make 
better use of the “Other matters” item to discuss issues 
of  concern.  Interactive  dialogues  have  also  continued 
to  be  held  by  the  Council  as  a  useful  consultation 
practice.  

The Council continued to increase the work time 
it devotes to conflict prevention, keeping on its agenda, 
on  a  monthly  basis,  a  briefing  by  the  Department  of 
Political Affairs on issues of emerging concern. 

During  the  period  of  the  report,  as  in  previous 
years,  many  of  the  activities  of  the  Council  were 
centred  on  situations  in  Africa,  including  the  Sudan, 
Darfur,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Somalia  and  the  question  of 
piracy off African coasts. The two missions conducted 
by the Council this year were to Africa  — in October 
2010  to  the  Sudan  and  Uganda,  and  in  May  2011  to 
Ethiopia,  where 
the  Council  held  a  consultative 
meeting  with  the  African  Union  Peace  and  Security 
Council, the Sudan and Kenya. With its referendum on 
independence  and 
the 
admission  of  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan  to  the 
United  Nations,  South  Sudan  was  also  the  focus  of 
close consideration by the Council. 

Developments  in  North  Africa  and  in  the  Arab 
world  since  January  ranked  high  on  the  Council’s 
agenda. The Council paid close and active attention to 
the evolving  situation in the region,  with the situation 
in  Libya  featuring  prominently  in  its  programme  of 
work.  The  Council  acted  swiftly  and  decisively  by 
adopting resolutions 1970 (2011) and 1973 (2011), and 
the situation was closely followed by the Council. The 
situations  in  Yemen  and  Syria  were  also  under  the 
active  consideration  of  the  Council  in  a  number  of 
briefings  and 
the  whole. 
the  subsequent  process  of 
in  consultations  of 
A/66/PV.50
to 
time, 
peace 
and 
crime 
regional 
security, 
and 
regional  approach 
facilitate  coordination  among 
Consideration  of  the  situation  in  West  Africa  and  the 
activities of the United Nations Office for West Africa 
continued  in  view  of  the  elections  in  numerous 
countries in the region, as well as cross-border threats 
to 
particularly 
transnational  organized 
illicit  drug 
trafficking  and  its  negative  impact  on  peace,  security 
and development in the region.  
In  that  context,  the  Council  emphasized  the 

importance  of  a 
to  conflict 
prevention,  and  encouraged  the  recently  established 
United  Nations  Regional  Office  for  Central  Africa  in 
Libreville 
the 
Economic  Community  of  Central  African  States,  the 
United  Nations  and  regional  organizations.  Under  the 
item  on  the  situation  in  the  Great  Lakes  region,  the 
Council’s  attention  was  also  brought  to  bear  on 
increased  attacks  by  the  Lord’s  Resistance  Army 
(LRA).  Council  members  condemned  the  attacks  and 
emphasized  the  need  for  the  effective  protection  of 
civilians. In that regard, they welcomed the leadership 
shown  by  the African  Union  in  its  recent  initiative  to 
develop a regional strategy on the LRA. 

The  Council  continued  to  regularly  review  the 
post-conflict  situations  on  its  agenda,  such  as  in 
Burundi,  Sierra  Leone,  the  Central  African  Republic 
and  Guinea-Bissau.  I  wish  to  highlight  one  aspect 
underlined  in  the  report,  that  is,  the  fact  that  for  the 
first 
the  country-specific 
configurations  of 
the  Peacebuilding  Commission 
delivered  a  joint  statement  to  the  Council,  which  is  a 
positive  development,  suggesting  closer  cooperation 
between 
the 
Commission’s country-specific configurations. 

Peacekeeping  operation  mandates  and  sanctions 
regimes  were  extended  and  adjusted  as  a  result  of  the 
periodic consideration of such issues under the regular 
agenda of the Council. In that context, however, I wish 
to  highlight  two  peacekeeping  missions  that  were 
terminated  by 
the  reporting 
period —  the  United  Nations  Mission  in  the  Central 
African  Republic  and  Chad  and  the  United  Nations 
Mission  in  the  Sudan.  Also,  the  United  Nations 
Mission in Nepal was terminated early this year. I take 
the opportunity to pay homage to the men and women 
who participated in those  missions, and the  respective 
contributing  countries,  and  to  thank  them  for  their 
important  role  for  the  benefit  of  the  international 
community. 
the  Council  during 
the  Council  and 
the  Chairs  of 
the  Chairs  of 
11-58372 

3 

the 
threat 
countering 
The  Council  continued  consideration  of 
A/66/PV.50 


With  regard  to  the  sanctions  regimes  mentioned 
in the report, I would like to highlight the adoption of 
resolutions  1988  (2011)  and  1989  (2011)  as  very 
important steps to further support political dialogue in 
Afghanistan,  while 
to 
international peace and security posed by Al-Qaida and 
its  affiliates  and  strengthening  the  effectiveness  of 
targeted  sanctions  by  further  enhancing  fair  and  clear 
procedures. 

the 
situation  in  the  Middle  East,  including  the  Palestinian 
question,  on  a  monthly  basis.  The  implementation  of 
resolution  1701  (2006)  was  closely  followed,  as  well. 
In Asia, the situations in Afghanistan, Iraq, Nepal and 
Timor-Leste were closely considered by the Council. In 
Europe, the Council continued its consideration of the 
situations  in  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina  and  Cyprus  and 
of  the  reports  of  the  Secretary-General  on  the  United 
Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo. In 
another  region,  Haiti  was  the  focus  of  close  attention 
by  the  Council,  in  particular  efforts  to  stabilize  the 
country  following  the  2010  earthquake,  and,  more 
recently, the presidential elections. 

The issue of  the non-proliferation of weapons of 
mass  destruction  was  also  in  the  Council’s  focus. 
Through  the  adoption  of  resolution  1977  (2011),  the 
Council extended the mandate of the Security Council 
Committee  established  pursuant  to  resolution  1540 
(2004)  for  a  period  of  10  years,  which  enhances  the 
Committee’s  ability  to  support  implementation  of 
resolution  1540 
two 
comprehensive reviews — one after five years and one 
before the end of the mandate. Regular briefings were 
also  conducted  by  the  Chairs  of  the  Committees 
established  pursuant  to  resolutions  1737  (2006)  and 
1718 (2006) on implementation of the sanctions regime 
concerning  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  and  the 
Democratic  Republic  of  Korea,  respectively.  The 
Council  also  benefited  from  regular  joint  briefings  by 
the Chairs of the three subsidiary bodies of the Council 
dealing  with  counter-terrorism,  that  is,  the  1267,  the 
1373 and 1540 Committees.  

Open  debates  continued  to  be  organized  by  the 
Council  as  a  regular  practice.  One  debate  on  United 
Nations  peacekeeping  operations  was  held,  with  the 
participation  of  the  Force  Commanders  of  13  United 
Nations peacekeeping missions in Africa, the Americas 
and the Middle East.  
(2004)  and  provides 
for 
to 
New  challenges 

Post-conflict  peacebuilding  was  the  focus  of 
other debates, the first held at the high-level summit in 
September  2010,  followed  by  other  open  debates  in 
October  2010  and,  more  recently,  in  January,  which 
focused for the first time on institution-building.  

On children and armed conflict, the Council held 
an  open  debate  in  July,  leading  to  the  adoption  of 
resolution  1998  (2011),  which  expanded  the  criteria 
under which the names of the parties to armed conflicts 
can be included in the annexes to the periodic report of 
the  Secretary-General  on  children  and  armed  conflict, 
namely, those parties to armed conflicts that engage, in 
contravention  with  applicable  international  law,  in 
recurrent attacks on schools and hospitals. 

On  the  protection  of  civilians,  the  Council  held 
two open debates, one in November 2010, after having 
adopted  a  presidential  statement  (S/PRST/2010/25), 
with  a  useful  update  and  aide-memoire  on 
the 
protection of civilians in armed conflict annexed to the 
statement, and the other in May 2011. 

international  peace  and 
security were also considered in the discussions of the 
Council. Open debates on the interdependence between 
security and development, the impact of HIV/AIDS on 
international  peace  and  security,  and  climate  change 
and  its  impact  on  the  maintenance  of  peace  and 
security  were  held  during 
the  reporting  period. 
Moreover,  briefings  on  the  impact  of  transnational 
organized  crime  and  drug  trafficking  on  global  peace, 
security and development, by the Executive Director of 
the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, and on 
small  arms  and 
the  High 
Representative for Disarmament Affairs, were also held 
during  the  reporting  period.  That  demonstrates  the 
close  attention  that  the  Security  Council  attaches  to 
those  emerging  challenges  to  international  peace  and 
security. 

On  women  and  peace  and  security,  an  open 
debate was organized to mark the tenth anniversary of 
resolution  1325  (2000).  The  Under-Secretary-General 
for  Gender  and  Equality  and  the  Empowerment  of 
Women  and 
the 
Secretary-General on Sexual Violence in Conflict were 
invited  to  brief  the  Council,  and  on  subsequent 
occasions  when  that  matter  was  considered  by  the 
Council.  
Concerning  the  International  Tribunals  for  the 

Former  Yugoslavia  and  for  Rwanda,  in  December 
the  Special  Representative  of 
light  weapons,  by 
4 

11-58372 


2010,  the  Council  adopted  resolution  1966  (2010),  by 
which it decided to establish the International Residual 
Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals  with  two  branches 
to  continue  their  jurisdiction,  rights  and  obligations 
and  essential  functions  once  they  completed  their 
work. 

Also  during  the  reporting  period,  the  Council 
took  a  decision  by  acclamation,  recommending  to  the 
General  Assembly 
that  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon  be 
reappointed  Secretary-General  of  the  United  Nations 
for a five-year term of office. 

I could go on and on in referring to matters that 
were under the consideration of the Council during the 
reporting period. However, time is short and I believe 
that it is more useful to listen to Member States. Many 
other aspects, surely as important, were left to mention, 
but members can find reference to them and to all that I 
have underlined in the report itself. 
The  annual  report  before  the Assembly  includes 

an  important  number  of  analytical,  descriptive  and 
statistical information on the work of the Council, the 
preparation  of  which  requires  a  significant  effort  both 
by  delegations  in  the  Council  and  by  the  Secretariat. 
We  should  seize  this  opportunity  to  discuss  the  report 
and 
from  members’  comments  and 
suggestions.  Obviously,  there  is  always  room  for 
improvement. I will be glad to take suggestions back to 
my  colleagues  in  the  Council  and  to  exchange  views 
the 
and 
comprehension  of 
its 
accuracy and value as a record. 
Mr.  Tag-Eldin  (Egypt)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I 

would  first  like  to  express  our  sincere  wishes  for  the 
blessed  Eid  al-Adha,  especially 
to  our  Muslim 
brothers. We  hope  that  this  will  bring  blessings  to  the 
Muslim  nation  and  the  entire  world,  and  peace, 
security and felicity to all. 
(spoke in English)  

the Non-Aligned Movement (NAM).  

At  the  outset,  the  Movement  commends  you, 
Mr. President,  on  your  decision  to  separate  the  two 
General Assembly  debates  —  on  the  consideration  of 
the report of the Security Council, and on the question 
of  equitable  representation  on  and  increase  in  the 
membership  of  the  Security  Council  and  other  related 
matters  —  and  to  devote  a  distinct  debate  to  each  of 
improve 
the  report,  while  keeping 
I  have  the  pleasure  to  speak  today  on  behalf  of 
further  on  ways 
to  benefit 
reflect 
to 
A/66/PV.50
to 
like 
to 
to 
these two important agenda items in order to give them 
the proper attention they each deserve. 

In  past  years,  the  majority  of  Member  States 
tended  to  concentrate  more  on  the  issue  of  Security 
Council  reform.  Now  the  Assembly  has  a  good 
opportunity to properly reflect on the annual report of 
the  Security  Council,  making 
the  debate  more 
meaningful  and  focused,  without  prejudice  to  the  link 
between  the  question  of  Council  reform  and  the 
Council report, as the latter represents a component of 
the overall reform of the Council, according to decision 
62/557. 

Mr.  Thomson  (Fiji),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair. 
The  Movement  would 
take 
thank  Portugal  for  presenting 
this 

opportunity 
the 
Security  Council’s  annual  report  for  the  period  from 
1 August  2010  to  31  July  2011  (A/66/2),  and  also  to 
thank Germany, which held the Council’s presidency in 
July,  for  its  work  in  drafting  the  introduction  to  the 
report. 

Our  debate  today  provides  an  opportunity  to 
analyse  the  progress  achieved  and  the  challenges 
confronting  the  work  of  the  Security  Council.  The 
General Assembly’s consideration of the report should 
not  be  limited  to  reviewing  past  activities  but  should, 
rather,  draw 
introduce  new 
perspectives  and  proposals  for  the  coming  year  in  a 
forward-looking exercise. 

The accountability of the Security Council to the 
General  Assembly  is  well  established  in  the  United 
Nations Charter, and the consideration of the Council’s 
annual  report  by  the  Assembly  is  one  of  the  most 
important 
relationship.  The 
Non-Aligned  Movement  therefore  stresses  that,  while 
Member States have conferred on the Security Council 
the  primary  responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security pursuant to Article 24, 
paragraph 1, of the Charter, the Council acts on behalf 
of  the  general  membership  in  carrying  out  its  duties 
under this responsibility. In this context, the Movement 
further  stresses  that  the  Council  should  report  and  be 
accountable  to  the  Assembly,  including  through  the 
submission  of  special  reports  for  the  consideration  of 
the Assembly, in accordance with Article 15, paragraph 
1, and Article 24, paragraph 3, of the Charter. 
elements 
lessons 
so  as 
that 
of 
11-58372 

5 

and 
the  multiplicity 
the  Council’s  annual  report, 
A/66/PV.50 

Moreover, with regard to the process of preparing 

and 
introducing 
the 
Movement  welcomes,  as  a  step  forward,  the  informal 
meeting  with  the  general  membership  convened  by 
Germany,  the  Council  President  in  July.  This  is  the 
fourth consecutive year with such a meeting, following 
in  the  footsteps  of  Nigeria,  Uganda  and  Viet  Nam  in 
the  preparation  of  the  introduction  of  the  report.  We 
encourage the members of the Council to continue this 
practice, which contributes to enhancing the quality of 
the report, and to develop it further. At the same time, 
necessary  action  should  be  taken  to  ensure  the  timely 
submission  of  the  report  to  the  Assembly  in  order  to 
allow  more  time  between  its  adoption  in  the  Council 
and the Assembly’s debate, to permit Member States to 
thoroughly examine and analyse it. 
On  the  other  hand,  NAM  notes  the  Council’s 

mounting  workload 
and 
complexity  of the issues on its agenda, as reflected  in 
the  number  of  public  and  private  meetings,  as  well  as 
the  number  of  resolutions,  presidential  statements  and 
statements  to  the  press.  These  reflect  the  increasing 
challenges that the international community is facing in 
the areas of peace and security. 

The  Security  Council  dealt  with  many  situations 
and  crises  and  considered  many  issues  on  almost  all 
continents.  African  issues  remain  at  the  forefront, 
representing  more  than  70  per  cent  of  the  Council’s 
work,  particularly  in  the  context  of  peacekeeping  and 
peacebuilding.  The  Council  also  devoted  considerable 
time 
including 
terrorism, the protection of civilians, women and peace 
and  security,  peacekeeping  operations,  peacebuilding, 
piracy, non-proliferation and other issues. 

The validity of the report’s introduction should be 
in  its  analytical  nature.  It  should  seek  to  capture  the 
most  important  deliberations  in  the  period  under 
review and to assess the Council’s ability to deal with 
the problems at hand and to signal difficulties, as well 
as to identify areas where improvements can be made. 
That  is  why  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  consistently 
calls  upon  the  Council  to  submit  a  more  explanatory, 
comprehensive  and  analytical  annual  report  to  the 
Assembly,  assessing  the  Council’s  work,  including 
cases in which it has failed to act, as well as the views 
expressed by its members during the discussion of the 
agenda items under its consideration.  
thematic  and  general 
issues, 
to 
that 
in  a 
The  Non-Aligned  Movement  notes 
Paragraph  10  of  resolution  65/315,  on 

The  Movement  further  calls  on  the  Security 
Council  to  elaborate  the  circumstances  under  which  it 
adopts  different  outcomes,  such  as 
resolutions, 
presidential statements, press statements or elements to 
the press. It is imperative that the General Assembly be 
aware not only of the specific decisions that were taken 
but  also  of  the  rationale,  reasons  and  backgrounds 
under  which  they  were  reached,  bearing  in  mind  the 
significant impact that Security Council decisions may 
have on world affairs. 

the 
revitalization  of  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly, 
welcomes  the  improvements  in  the  quality  of  the 
annual  report  of  the  Council  and  encourages  the 
Council  to  make  further  improvements  as  necessary. 
The  Movement  is  of  the  view  that  there  is  still  a  dire 
need not only to maintain such improvements but also 
to enhance and promote them. 

the 
annual report relied on the monthly assessments of the 
Council’s  rotating  presidencies.  Comprehensive  and 
analytical  monthly  assessments, 
if  prepared  and 
submitted 
timely  manner,  would  definitely 
contribute  to  improving  the  quality  of  the  annual 
report. That would provide a more coherent account of 
how  the  work  of  the  Council  evolves  each  month  in 
dealing  with  issues  on  its  agenda.  It  is  also  important 
that  the  annual  report  contain  concise  and  analytical 
information about the work of the Council’s subsidiary 
committees, 
bodies, 
sanctions 
and 
international tribunals established by the Council. 

The inclusion of a chapter on working methods in 
the annual report  and  a related  part in its introduction 
is  only  a  step  in  the  right  direction.  The  Movement 
expects  the  Council’s  upcoming  reports  to  contain  a 
more detailed presentation on the measures the Council 
has  taken  to  improve  its  working  methods,  including 
the  implementation  of  existing  measures  set  out  in 
presidential  note  S/2010/507,  in  order  to  properly 
assess the progress achieved in this regard. NAM also 
encourages  a  more  detailed  account  of  the  activities 
and  outcomes  of  the  Informal  Working  Group  on 
Documentation  and  Other  Procedural  Questions, 
including suggestions on how to enhance the quality of 
the report. 

During  the  reporting  period,  the  Council’s  work 
was  characterized  by  an  increase  in  the  number  of 
committees,  working 
counter-terrorism 
including 
groups 
6 

11-58372 
this  regard, 


public  meetings.  The  Movement  believes  that  the 
quantitative  increase  of  those  meetings  should  be 
associated  with  a  qualitative  one  by  providing  real 
opportunities  and  a  more  meaningful  exchange  of 
views, to take into account the views and contributions 
of  non-Council  members,  particularly  those  whose 
interests  are  or  may  be  directly  affected  by  possible 
decisions of the Council.  

Furthermore,  while  the  Movement  acknowledges 
the  open  debates  held  on  various  issues  of  concern  to 
the  international  community  which  fall  under  the 
competence  of  the  Council,  it  notes  that  the  Security 
Council report does not reflect the general observations 
and positions expressed by numerous non-members of 
the  Council  during  those  debates,  and  in  this  regard 
requests that this issue be addressed in future reports. 

NAM  also  welcomes  the  continued  holding  of 
briefings  and  consultations  by  the  Council  with  the 
troop-contributing countries as part of the effort to plan 
and  execute  peacekeeping  operations  more  effectively 
and  with  clearer  mandates.  In 
the 
Movement  encourages  the  Security  Council  to  further 
enhance  its  relationship  with  the  Secretariat  and  the 
troop-contributing 
through 
sustained,  regular  and  timely  interaction.  Meetings 
with  the  troop-contributing  countries  should  be  held 
not only when mandates are drawn up, but also during 
their  implementation;  when  considering  amending, 
renewing or completing a mission’s mandate; or when 
there  are  serious  developments  in  the  situation  on  the 
ground.  

In  this  context,  the  Security  Council  Working 
Group  of  the  Whole  on  United  Nations  Peacekeeping 
Operations should involve troop-contributing countries 
more  frequently  and  intensively  in  its  deliberations, 
especially at the very early stages of mission planning. 

Moreover,  developing  the  concept  of  a  monthly 
briefing  from the  Department of Political Affairs is in 
line  with  the  continuous  calls  made  by  the  Movement 
to 
or 
Representatives  of 
the 
Secretariat  to  take  place  at  public  meetings  of  the 
Security Council. 

increased 
cooperation  between  the  Security  Council  and  the 
African  Union  (AU),  particularly  the  AU  Peace  and 
Security  Council,  and  emphasizes  the  need  to  provide 
the African Union with assistance in terms of capacity-
Special  Envoys 
the  Secretary-General  and 
the  continued  and 
NAM  supports 
countries, 
including 
allow 
briefings 
by 
A/66/PV.50
In  conclusion, 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  expresses 
building  and  adequate  predictable  resources  so  that  it 
can deal effectively with conflict on the continent. The 
Movement  also  welcomes  the  Security  Council’s  field 
visits  to  a  number  of  countries  in Africa,  which  have 
provided  an  excellent  opportunity  to  garner  accurate 
information and allowed for a proper assessment of the 
situation on the ground. 

With  regard  to  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East, 
including the question of Palestine, which continued to 
be considered on a monthly basis during the reporting 
period, 
its 
disappointment  and  frustration  at  the  fact  that  the 
Security  Council  failed  to  successfully  address  this 
long-standing conflict and was not able at least to take 
meaningful  action  on  the  basis  of  the  consensus  and 
aspirations of the international community. In the same 
vein,  the  Movement  regrets  that  the  draft  resolution 
submitted  earlier  this  year  in  the  Security  Council 
calling  for  the  immediate  cessation  of  all  settlement 
activities  in  the  occupied  Palestinian  territory  was  not 
adopted  by  the  Council,  as  had  been  hoped  for  and 
expected. 

the  Non-Aligned  Movement 
strongly  believes  that  there  remains  much  room  for 
improvement in the quality of the annual report of the 
Security  Council,  with  a  view  to  ensuring  that  the 
challenges facing the Council, its assessments and the 
rationale for its actions, as well as its decision-making 
processes, are duly reflected. 

It  is  imperative  for  both  the  General  Assembly 
and the Security Council to strive to complement each 
other, while respecting each other’s mandates, in order 
to  achieve  the  noble  objectives  of  the  United  Nations 
and  to  enable  it  to  remain  relevant  and  capable  of 
meeting 
threats  and 
challenges facing the international community. 
Mr.  Ulibarri  (Costa  Rica):  I  have  the  honour  to 

speak  on  behalf  of  the  group  of  five  small  nations 
(S-5), comprised of Costa Rica, Jordan, Liechtenstein, 
Singapore and Switzerland, regarding  agenda item 30, 
on  the  report  of  the  Security  Council.  Our  group  is 
particularly  committed 
the  working 
methods of the Security Council. 
Let  me  first  thank  the  President  of  the  General 

Assembly  for  holding 
it 
important that this year it is being held separately from 
the debate on item 122, on the “Question of equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the  existing  and  emerging 
this  debate.  We  deem 
improving 
to 
11-58372 

7 

A/66/PV.50 

the  Security  Council  and  related  matters”.  This  will 
allow  us  to  conduct  more  meaningful  exchanges  on 
each item. 

The  S-5  thanks  Germany  for  its  efforts  and 
commitment in drafting the report, and Portugal for its 
thoughtful  presentation.  The  report  summarizes,  with 
the  relevant  details,  the  activities  conducted  by  the 
Council and indicates its priority areas, as reflected by 
those  activities.  In  that  regard,  it  is  a  clear  and  well-
organized  document.  However,  we  would  have 
welcomed the inclusion of more elements of reflection 
or analysis. 

Going  beyond  a  strictly  summary  presentation 
and including additional elements such as insights into 
the  Council’s  decision-making  processes  would  have 
facilitated  Member  States’  conclusions  about 
the 
contents  of  the  report  and  the  work  of  the  Security 
Council. 
Throughout  the  years,  the  report  of  the  Security 

Council  and  the  debate  thereon  have  become  a  rather 
ritualistic  exercise  that,  as  a  result,  has  only  modest 
relevance. 

To  reverse  this  situation,  we  encourage  both  the 
Security Council and the General Assembly to take the 
kind  of  bold  and  innovative  steps  that  could  allow 
better  use  to  be  made  of  this  annual  report.  If  such 
steps  are  taken,  we  will  be  able  to  draw  greater  and 
more  tangible  benefits  from  its  contents  and  the 
discussions  thereon,  in  the  context  of  our  common 
endeavour 
international  peace  and 
security under the United  Nations Charter, while  fully 
respecting  the  tasks,  mandates  and  competencies  of 
both the Assembly and the Council. 

In  that  connection,  the  S-5  wishes  to  offer  some 
comments  and  suggestions  on  the  way  in  which  the 
annual  report  could  be  drafted,  the  nature  of  its 
contents  and  ways  of  improving  discussions  on  the 
report. 

The  substantive  involvement  of  all  Member 
States  at  an  early  stage  of  the  drafting  process  would 
be a step in the right direction. That could be done, for 
example,  through  an  interactive  open  debate,  with  the 
exchanges 
the  report.  Such 
involvement does not exist today. Moreover, given the 
length  of 
lack  of  an  analytical 
perspective  and the usual  delay in making it  available 
well  in  advance  of  presentations,  delegations  are 
therein  reflected 
to  strengthen 
the  report, 
the 
in 
the 
the  Council,  especially 
severely restricted in their capacity to make their own 
analysis  of  the  document.  This  hinders  the  possibility 
of  making  meaningful  contributions  and  affects  in 
particular small delegations with limited resources. 
As for the issue of substance, the S-5 would have 

welcomed  a  greater  highlighting  of 
linkages 
between thematic, regional and country-specific issues. 
We  suggest  that  this  be  taken  into  account  in  the 
drafting of future annual reports.  
We  welcome  the  consideration  of  the  working 

the  manifest 
methods  of 
determination  to  make  its  work  more  transparent  and 
the  debates  and  consultations  more  open  and 
interactive.  While  we  note  with  satisfaction  that  the 
annual  report  lists  a  number  of  steps  that  the  Council 
has taken to improve its working methods, it would be 
useful  if  the  report  also  presented  a  more  analytical 
assessment  of  the  implementation  of  presidential  note 
S/2006/507  and  its  follow-up  note  S/2010/507.  The 
ideas  of  the  S-5  on  how  to  make  further  inroads  in 
connection  with  these  issues  are  included  in  a  draft 
resolution under agenda item 117, on “Follow-up to the 
outcome  of  the  Millennium  Summit”,  which  has  been 
the  subject  of  consultations  on 
the 
membership of the Organization. 
We  notice  that  there  have  been  no  further 

advances 
itself. 
Therefore,  the  small  five  suggest,  again,  that  in  the 
future  our  discussions  be  conducted 
in  a  more 
informal, inclusive and interactive way.  
the  United  Nations 

delegates 
the 
maintenance of international peace  and security to the 
Security  Council.  A  more  substantive  and  interactive 
dialogue  between  the  two  main  bodies  of  the  United 
Nations and among Member States based on the annual 
report  would  not  be  meant 
that 
prerogative.  However,  the  Council  could  benefit  from 
input from the wider membership on this matter to help 
it  better  discharge  its  functions.  At  the  same  time,  a 
political  discussion  with  the  Member  States  would 
have  the  added  benefit  of  a  larger  buy-in  and  broader 
political  ownership  of  decisions  taken  by  the  Security 
Council. 

In  that  way,  the  annual  report  would  present  an 
excellent occasion not only to review and evaluate the 
past,  but  also  for  all  parties  to  exchange  lessons 
learned  in  order  to  discuss  options  and  strategies  for 
the  Charter  of 
the  format  of 
the  discussion 
to  undermine 
responsibility 
the  part  of 
in 
Clearly, 
the 
primary 
for 
8 

11-58372 
less 
We 
to 
efforts 
that  context, 
it 
is  necessary 
encourage 
that  although 
time,  we  recall 
future 
strengthen 
formulaic  and  more  conducive 


the  future.  In  other  words,  a  discussion  on  the  annual 
report should not be mainly a retrospective exercise but 
a  prospective  one  as  well.  Such  a  discussion  need  not 
be  a  formal  exercise,  and  the  small  five  group  indeed 
suggests a possible format organized around a series of 
workshops clustered around situations and/or issues. 

In  concluding  our  remarks,  we  would  like  to 
highlight  the  increase  in  the  number  of  open  debates 
organized  by  each  month’s  Council  President.  At  the 
same 
the  debates 
demonstrate  a  greater  willingness  for  openness  and 
inclusion, they do not, alone, translate into meaningful 
discussions.  In 
to 
implement  the  procedural  changes  that  will  make 
debates 
to 
discussion. We  particularly  welcome  the  possibility  of 
making  the  consultations  within  the  Council  more 
spontaneous, lively and productive. 

Security  Council 
presidencies 
for  major 
enhancements  of  the  report,  which  should  start  at  its 
inception  and  develop  throughout  the  process  until  its 
presentation and discussion. 
Mr. Singh (India): I am honoured to address the 

General  Assembly  on  behalf  of  my  country  on  the 
annual  report  of  the  Security  Council.  I  thank  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Portugal  for  presenting 
the  Security  Council’s  annual  report  for  the  period 
from  1  August  2010  to  31  July  2011  (A/66/2).  The 
information he provided on the enormous work carried 
out  by  the  Council  was  in  many  ways  comprehensive 
and  useful.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  the  German 
delegation 
the 
introduction  to  the  report.  I  also  place  on  record  our 
appreciation  of  the  Nigerian  delegation  for  convening 
an informal meeting with Member States last month on 
the preparation of the report. 

In our view, the report of the Security Council is 
an  important  mechanism  for  facilitating  interaction 
among  the  most  representative  organ  of  the  United 
Nations and its most empowered brethren. Indeed, the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  itself  bestows  on  the 
report  a  profound  gravitas,  as  is  evident  from  the  fact 
that there exists a separate provision mandating such a 
report,  rather  than  clubbing  it  with  the  provision  for 
reports  from  other  United  Nations  bodies.  It 
is 
therefore  imperative  that  the  annual  report  of  the 
Security  Council  highlight  and  analyse  the  measures 
in  preparing 
for 
their 
efforts 
A/66/PV.50
in 
taken 
the  Council’s  decisions, 
it  has  decided  upon  or 
The  General  Assembly  membership 
that 
to  maintain 
international  peace  and  security  during  the  reporting 
period. 

has 
repeatedly  requested  that  this  report  be  made  more 
analytical  and  incisive,  rather  than  being  a  mere 
narration of the Council’s meetings. It is important that 
the Assembly be aware not only of what decisions were 
taken,  but  also  the  rationale  for  and  efficacy  and 
impact  of 
terms  of 
crystallized takeaways for the Assembly membership. 

In  that  context,  it  is  important  that  the  annual 
report  and  the  monthly  reports  mention  the  important 
points  made  by  the  briefers  in  Council  meetings,  as 
well  as  the  views  expressed  by  Council  members. 
Points of convergence and divergence should stand out 
from those reports so that the wider membership is able 
to understand the dynamics as well as the rationale of 
the decision-making in the Security Council. 

Unfortunately,  the  present  report  continues  to  be 
a  statistical  compilation  of  events,  a  bland  summary 
and listing of meetings and outcome documents. It fails 
to  mention  even  the  strands  of  the  various  views 
expressed  in  the  Council  that  led  the  Council  to  take 
action, or otherwise.  

I  would  still  like  to  give  some  credit  where  it  is 
due.  The  report  now  before  the  Assembly  has  gone 
some  distance  to  address  some  issues  mentioned  in 
paragraph 10 of resolution 65/315, on revitalization of 
the  work  of  the  General  Assembly,  concerning  the 
quality of the annual reports. It is our expectation that 
the Council will continue to take tangible steps to make 
further  improvements  in  the  analytical  quality  of  its 
reports. 

The  General  Assembly  will  benefit  enormously 
from  an  assessment  of  the  multiple  dimensions  of  the 
issues  concerning  international  peace  and  security, 
often in a wider geopolitical context, that were before 
the  Security  Council  during 
the  relevant  period. 
Equally,  it  would  be  of  immense  value  if  the  analysis 
were not merely an ex post rendition of the sequence of 
events, but contained elements of an ex ante nature that 
could  create  an  enabling  environment  for  robust 
handling of the various situations. 

Furthermore, although, strictly speaking, analysis 
of  economic  and  social  issues  falls  within  the  domain 
of  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  we  feel  that 
11-58372 

9 
the 
Social 
Council 
challenges 
security 
of 
A/66/PV.50 

nothing  prevents  the  Council  from  developing  the 
necessary  wherewithal  and  undertaking 
rational 
analysis  and  objective  assessment  to  be  able  to 
completely  grasp 
implications  of 
socio-economic 
international 
an 
character. In the view of my delegation, the practice of 
dispassionate  analysis  of  such  episodes  and  processes 
and, beyond that, ex ante prognosis, would do a world 
of  good  for  the  Assembly,  the  Council  and  the 
Economic 
and 
their 
interrelationship. 

My  delegation  has  long  held  that  the  existing 
lacunae in the report manifest the underlying problems 
of  the  Council’s  representation  and  working  methods, 
which  remain  opaque  and  non-inclusive.  The  report 
this year, too, continues to be a statistical compilation 
of  events,  a  summary  and  listing  of  meetings  and 
outcome  documents.  Since  the  question  of  equitable 
representation  on  and  increase  in  the  membership  of 
the Council and other related matters will be discussed 
under  a  separate  agenda  item  this  afternoon,  my 
delegation will make a more detailed statement at that 
time. 

For  the  time  being,  suffice  it  to  say  that  there  is 
no  option  but  to  recognize  that  the  real  solution  not 
only for a more credible, legitimate and representative 
Council, but also for a more thorough report lies in the 
comprehensive 
the  Security  Council, 
including  expansion  of  both  the  permanent  and  the 
non-permanent categories, and its working methods. 

Nonetheless,  let  us  recognize  that  this  year  we 
have  made  important  changes  in  terms  of  altering  the 
format  of  discussion.  In  the  morning  the Assembly  is 
concentrating  only  on  the  report  of  the  Security 
Council, while this afternoon it will concern itself with 
the  wider  reform  of  the  membership  of  the  Security 
Council. I think that provides a useful departure and a 
useful  format.  It  is  the  expectation  of  my  delegation 
that  we  will  build  on  the  progress  that  we  have 
achieved.  Therefore,  with  hope  and  expectation,  we 
look  forward  to  altered  discussions  and  to  reflecting 
some  of  the  suggestions  in  the  next  report  of  the 
Security  Council  and  the  subsequent  deliberations  in 
the General Assembly. 
the 

Permanent  Representative  of  Portugal,  Ambassador 
José  Filipe  Moraes  Cabral,  for  his  presentation  of  the 
report of the Security Council (A/66/2). I would like to 
Mrs.  Viotti  (Brazil):  I  wish 
reform  of 
thank 

and 
to 
the 
since 
newly 
elected 
transparent, 
Brazil  actively 
the  organ  more 
acknowledge  the  presence  at  today’s  meeting  of  His 
Excellency  Representative  Damian  Feliciano,  member 
of the Brazilian Congress.  

The  annual  report  of  the  Council  just  presented 
covers a period of intense activity and hard work by all 
Council  members.  Brazil  has  had  the  honour  to  serve 
on  Security  Council 
January  2010.  We 
congratulate 
non-permanent 
members — Azerbaijan, Guatemala, Morocco, Pakistan 
and  Togo  —  and  wish  them  every  success  in  their 
important new functions.  

During our mandate, Brazil has striven to honour 
the trust placed in us by Member States. As in previous 
mandates,  we  have  sought  to  deal  constructively  with 
the issues on the Council’s agenda, while, at the same 
time,  remaining  attentive  to  the  needs  and  interests  of 
the  wider  membership. We  have  long  been  supportive 
of improvements in the Council’s working methods to 
make 
inclusive  and 
accessible. 
the 
revision  of 

supported 
presidential  note  507,  which, 
in  S/2010/507, 
consolidated  some  relatively  recent  efforts  to  improve 
interaction with Member States. Among them, I would 
single  out  informal  interactive  dialogues  and  the 
possibility  of  inviting  the  Chairs  of  the  Peacebuilding 
Commission to informal consultations. 

The annual report is an attempt to provide a fairly 
comprehensive account of  the Council’s activities. We 
remain  available  to  all  Member  States  to  discuss  the 
contents  of  the  report  and  possible  ways  to  make  it  a 
better tool for the benefit of the whole membership. 

Last  February,  as  President  of  the  Security 
Council, Brazil made a conscious effort to involve each 
and  every  member  of  the  Council  in  its  deliberations, 
to  keep  them  permanently  informed  of  developments 
and  to  help  build  unity  of  purpose. We  also  sought  to 
keep in close contact with all parties directly concerned 
with  the  issues  of  which  the  Council  was  seized.  In 
addition,  we  made  ourselves  available  to  Member 
States  that  needed  information  or  that  requested  the 
attention  of  the  Council.  In  that  regard,  at  the  end  of 
our  presidency,  Brazil  organized  a  briefing 
for 
non-members  to  exchange  views  on  issues  covered 
during the month. 

As  we  consider  the  annual  report,  it  is  worth 
noting that while progress has been made, more needs 
10 

11-58372 
tools, 
openness 
to  enhance 
the  opportunities 


to  be  done 
for 
non-member States and other United Nations bodies to 
provide their input to the work of the Security Council. 
Brazil  will  continue  to  work,  inside  or  outside  the 
Council, in favour of concrete and effective reforms of 
its  working  methods,  with  a  view  to  enhancing  its 
transparency, 
accountability 
to 
participation by non-members. 

Brazil has been fully aware of the pressing issues 
that  the  Security  Council  must  address  at  this  crucial 
juncture in its history. One of the major challenges for 
the  international  community  is  seeking  to  ensure  a 
holistic  approach 
to  conflict  and  post-conflict 
situations.  We  have  advocated  for  better  use  of  the 
Council’s 
including  preventive  diplomacy 
mechanisms, to tackle the root causes of problems and 
to  empower  local  actors  in  order  to  help  build 
sustainable  peace  and  development. We  are  convinced 
that  coercive  measures  should  not  be  the  primary 
method  of  responding  to  crises  that  are  mainly  of  a 
political nature. 

Our approach has been focused first and foremost 
on  the  need  to  pursue  and  exhaust  all  diplomatic 
solutions  to  any  given  conflict.  The  Security  Council 
should be more involved in promoting the engagement 
of  key  players  and  mediation  efforts  by  regional  and 
subregional  organizations,  and  the  United  Nations 
itself,  as  such  efforts  can  play  a  significant  role  in 
defusing  tensions.  When  diplomatic  means  have  been 
exhausted and the use of coercive measures is deemed 
necessary, the Council must be attentive to the need to 
avoid  harm  to  the  population,  including  vulnerable 
groups.  

Military action should be a measure of last resort. 
In such cases, the observance of proportionality and the 
definition of clear parameters are necessary so as not to 
further aggravate the conflict that it is trying to solve.  

When  the  Council  has  adopted  measures  under 
Chapter  VII,  Brazil  has  sought  to  work  towards  unity 
of message and purpose, as the convergent and unified 
action by the Council enhances its effectiveness. In the 
implementation  of  such  measures,  in  particular  when 
they involve the use of force, accountability should be 
considered  an  obligation 
the 
Council’s  responsibility  in  acting  on  behalf  of  the 
whole  membership  on  matters  related  to  international 
peace and security.  
follows 
and 
that 
from 
A/66/PV.50
for 

As  I  conclude,  I  would  like  to  express  our  great 
appreciation  for  the  valuable  interaction  with,  and  the 
support  that  we  have  received  from,  both  members  of 
the Council and States not members. 
Mr. Ragaglini (Italy): First of all, I wish to thank 

the  Ambassador  of  Portugal 
the  excellent 
presentation  of  the  report  of  the  Security  Council 
(A/66/2).  

The year 2011 has been particularly challenging. 
Against  the  background  of  a  fragile  world  economy 
and  its  serious  repercussions,  especially  for  the  most 
vulnerable economies, the international community has 
had  to  face  unexpected  and  potentially  destabilizing 
situations.  
This  year  will  go  down  in  history  for  the  Arab 

Spring.  The  people  of  numerous  countries  on  the 
southern shore of the Mediterranean made their voices 
heard, demanding freedom, justice, participation in the 
political  process  and  a  more  equitable  distribution  of 
wealth.  The  Security  Council 
the 
developments  in  the  Mediterranean  and  the  North 
African  region  through  focused  debates  and  decisions 
that  often  helped  to  shape  the  path  towards  freedom 
and democracy. 

In  March,  the  Council  took  decisive  action  to 
prevent  a  bloodbath  in  Libya  and  harm  to  the  civilian 
population at the hands of the Al-Qadhafi regime. The 
evolution  of  the  crisis  and  the  prompt  adoption  of 
resolutions 2016 (2011) and 2017 (2011) recently attest 
to  everybody  that  much  has  been  done  to  restore  a 
normalcy  long  been  denied  to  the  Libyan  people. 
However,  much  still  remains  to  be  done,  particularly 
rebuilding the country’s institutions. 

In  resolution  1970  (2011),  the  Security  Council 
voted unanimously to refer the Libyan situation to the 
International  Criminal  Court.  As  Foreign  Minister 
Frattini  stated  in  his  address  to  the  General Assembly 
on 24 September, 

“we shifted from a culture of sovereign impunity 
to  one  of  responsible  sovereignty,  rooted  in 
national  and  international  accountability  for  the 
most 
rights” 
(A/66/PV.24, p. 10). 
serious  violations  of  human 
reacted 
to 
No  State  can  be  allowed  to  commit  crimes  against  its 
own population. 
11-58372 

11 

A/66/PV.50 


The Council continued to monitor the situation in 
Lebanon,  where  the  United  Nations  is  playing  a  key 
role in bringing stability. Italy remains deeply engaged 
in assisting the Lebanese authorities and in supporting 
the United Nations Interim Force in Lebanon, to which 
my country contributes with a significant force. 

The  Security  Council  was  called  to  act  in  other 
hotbeds of change. It has manifested its solidarity with 
the legitimate aspirations of the Egyptian and Tunisian 
peoples  and  has  raised  its  voice  over  the  situation  in 
Yemen, although the desired political transition in that 
country is still pending. 

We  would,  however,  be  remiss  if  we  did  not 
mention  our  regret  about  the  silence  that  has  greeted 
the  repression  in  Syria.  The  silence  is  loud,  and  it  is 
inconsistent  with the overall effectiveness the Council 
has shown in other circumstances, making good use of 
the broad range of instruments at its disposal to ensure 
that  the  peaceful  demands  of  civilian  populations 
receive the hearing they deserve. 

The Security Council has maintained its vigilance 
in  sub-Saharan  Africa,  a  priority  area  for  the  United 
Nations because of the persistence of conflicts and the 
emergence  of  new  threats  to  peace  and  security.  The 
Council’s  action  was  instrumental  in  the  preparatory 
process  of 
the 
independence of South Sudan — to which I renew my 
warm  congratulations  on  being 
the  193rd  State 
Member of the United Nations. The Security Council’s 
continued  focus  is  driving  the  parties  there  to  respect 
the  commitments 
the 
Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement,  of  which  Italy  is  a 
guarantor. 

In Somalia, a climate of constructive dialogue has 
been  re-established  and  a  series  of  basic  reforms  has 
been initiated through the road map of 6 September. It 
is  our  hope  that  these  reforms  will  be  carried  out  in 
compliance  with  the  agreed  timetable.  Yet,  security 
conditions  must  still  be  restored  in  Somalia  for  the 
sake  of  the  rule  of  law,  socio-economic  development 
and  the  fight  against  terrorism.  To  combat  piracy,  we 
need a comprehensive approach that addresses the root 
causes  of  the  phenomenon  through  an  integrated 
strategy combining deterrence, prosecution, the rule of 
law and development. 

Peacekeeping and post-conflict peacebuilding are 
critical  elements  of  the  United  Nations  agenda  to 
advance  peace  and  security  in  Africa  and  elsewhere. 
they  undertook 
referendum 
in  signing 
ratified 
that 
the 
issue.  We  believe 
focused  on 
to  be 
Italy is proud to be a major contributor to peacekeeping 
operations,  not  only  in  the  definition  of  doctrines  and 
procedures  but  also  in  terms  of  financing,  training, 
logistics  and  especially  presence  on 
the  ground, 
standing as the top Western contributor of troops. 

This year the Council held a series of debates on 
post-conflict  peacebuilding,  based  on  reports  of  the 
Secretary-General  on 
that 
the 
attention  must  continue 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission.  In  order  to  strengthen  it, 
we  must  take  advantage  of  the  favourable  momentum 
generated  by  the  review  and  by  the  excellent  results 
achieved through the country configurations. 
Italy  appreciates  the  Council’s  attention  to  the 

Balkans,  particularly 
the  unanimous  adoption  of 
resolution 1948 (2010) on Bosnia and Herzegovina and 
the  European-led  peacekeeping  force,  as  well  as  the 
role  the  Council  has  played  in  Kosovo,  thanks  to  the 
active  engagement  of  then  Special  Representative  of 
the Secretary-General Lamberto Zannier. 

In Asia,  the  development  of  a  regional  approach 
to  solving  political  and  security  problems  has  been 
reinvigorated. That is true not only in Afghanistan but 
also in Thailand and Cambodia, two countries that have 
been  encouraged  to  settle  their  age-old  controversy  in 
the  framework  of  the  Association  of  Southeast  Asian 
Nations.  Indeed,  regional  integration  is  an  effective 
means not just to improve economic outputs but also to 
address  political  conflicts,  as  the  experience  of  the 
European  Union  integration  process  has  demonstrated 
in the over 50 years of its history. 

in 
Afghanistan,  all  regional  actors  must  support  the 
transition process while the Afghan authorities assume 
greater  ownership  of 
social 
development of their country. Council resolutions 1988 
(2011)  and  1989  (2011),  on  threats  to  peace  and 
security  caused  by  terrorist  acts,  are  important  steps 
toward  supporting  political  dialogue  in  Afghanistan 
and  countering  the  dangers  posed  by Al-Qaida  and  its 
affiliates.  

Those  measures  make  targeted  sanctions  more 
effective  by  providing  fair  and  clear  procedures.  Italy 
commends 
the 
Ombudsperson  for  de-listing  requests  and  remains 
strongly  committed  to  cooperating  with  the  Office  of 
the  Ombudsperson  fully,  effectively  and  transparently 
to  strengthening  stability 
stronger  mandate  given 
the  political  and 
With  a  view 
the 
to 
12 

11-58372 
those 
including 
involving 
they  pose 
resolutions, 
to  security  and  stability 


to  enable  and  promote  the  exercise  of  its  independent 
and impartial mandate. 

We  share  the  Security  Council’s  concern  about 
drug  trafficking  and  organized  crime  and  the  growing 
challenge 
in 
Afghanistan and in other regions of the world. 
Important  progress  has  been  made  in  advancing 

the  women  and  peace  and  security  agenda,  but  we 
believe  that  the  Security  Council  should  better  ensure 
that 
the 
mandates  and  renewals  of  peacekeeping  operations, 
consistently  integrate  and  substantively  advance  this 
issue.  We  are  also  convinced  that  the  Council  would 
also  benefit  from  more  frequent  briefings  by  the 
Executive  Director  of  UN-Women  and  the  relevant 
special representatives of the Secretary-General. 

Let me conclude by saying that  Italy encourages 
the  increasing  engagement  of  the  Security  Council  in 
addressing  the  plight  of  children  affected  by  armed 
conflict.  The  adoption  last  July  of  resolution  1998 
(2011),  which  includes  mention  of  attacks  against 
schools  and  hospitals  and  of  attacks  or  threats  of 
attacks against protected persons in relation to schools 
and hospitals, as a new listing criterion for the annexes 
of  the  Secretary-General’s  reports  on  children  and 
armed  conflict  was  an  important  step  towards  more 
comprehensive  protection  of  children  from  grave 
violations of their human rights. 
Mr.  Nishida  (Japan):  I  would  first  like  to  thank 

the President of the Security Council for the month of 
November, Ambassador José Filipe Moraes Cabral, for 
his  presentation  of  the  annual  report  of  the  Security 
Council to the General Assembly (A/66/2). I also wish 
to  thank  Ambassador  Peter  Wittig  and  the  German 
delegation  for  their  preparation  of  the  annual  report’s 
introduction  during  Germany’s  presidency  of 
the 
Council in July.  
Japan  appreciates  that  the  annual  report  of  the 

improved  and 
Security  Council  continues 
submitted  to  the  General  Assembly  in  line  with 
presidential  note  507,  which,  in  2010,  was  revised 
under  our  chairmanship  of 
the  Security  Council 
Informal Working Group on Documentation and Other 
Procedural  Questions  (see  S/2010/507).  We  believe 
that  this  report  not  only  strengthens  the  ties  between 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  but 
important 
also  plays  an 
the 
accountability of the Council. 
in  ensuring 
to  be 
role 
A/66/PV.50
for 
and 
relevant 
resolutions 
the  primary 
responsibility 

Japan  stands  today  in  an  advantageous  position, 
as we have observed the work of the Security Council 
from  the  inside  as  well  as  from  the  outside,  having 
served  most  recently  as  a  non-permanent  member  in 
2009 and 2010. From that perspective, allow me to use 
this  opportunity  to  highlight  some  of  our  insights  and 
contributions  with  respect  to  the  work  of  the  Security 
Council. 
To  begin  with,  a  crucial  role  of  the  Council, 

which  has 
the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security,  is  to 
respond  to  various  regional  developments.  In  this 
regard, Japan, as the lead country for Afghanistan and 
Timor-Leste,  advanced  the  Council’s  consideration  of 
those  countries  by  organizing  consultations  and 
drafting 
presidential 
statements. We have remained committed to those two 
countries, even after our departure from the Council, as 
a member of their respective Groups of Friends. 

In  the  African  region,  Japan  has  contributed  to 
the  consolidation  of  peace  and  security  in  the  Sudan. 
For example, Japan was the first donor to announce its 
assistance  to  the  South  Sudan  referendum  in  January 
2011,  encouraging  others  to  follow  suit.  Japan  also 
dispatched its referendum observation mission to assist 
the  conduct  of  a  free  and  fair  referendum. We  believe 
the smooth transition to independence was ensured by 
the  strong  support  extended  by  the  Council.  Recently, 
Japan  announced  its  willingness  to  contribute  an 
engineering  contingent  of  its  Self-Defense  Forces  to 
the United Nations Mission in South Sudan (UNMISS). 
Japan  continues  to  take  a  multifaceted  approach  to 
assisting  the  Sudan  and  South  Sudan  through  official 
development  assistance,  private  sector  assistance  and 
peacekeeping and peacebuilding activities.  

In  Somalia,  in  addition  to  police  support,  Japan 
has  helped  to  expand  the  logistical  support  of  the 
African  Union  Mission  in  Somalia  and  contributed  to 
the expansion of its forces. The eviction of Al-Shabaab 
forces  from  Mogadishu  was  an  accomplishment  that 
resulted  from  concerted  efforts  of  the  international 
community.  

However,  despite  those  accomplishments,  there 
have been areas in which the Security Council has not 
including 
met  our 
the  uranium 
expectations, 
enrichment  activities  of 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea, the Yeonpyeong Island incident last 
autumn and the situation in Syria. 
11-58372 

13 

the 
presidential 
In 
the 
ties  between 
setting  policy. 
A/66/PV.50 


While  regional  affairs  represent  the  substantive 
work  of  the  Council,  thematic  debates  are  no  less 
field  of 
important 
in 
peacebuilding, 
statement 
(S/PRST/2010/7)  adopted  under  Japan’s  presidency  in 
April  2010,  has  served  as  the  basis  for  the  growing 
recognition  of  the  importance  of  the  peacebuilding 
approach  and  of  strengthening 
the 
Peacebuilding  Commission  (PBC)  and  the  Security 
Council.  Japan,  as  Chair  since  January  of  the  PBC 
Working  Group  on  Lessons  Learned,  has  continued  to 
encourage  greater  cooperation  between  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council,  even  after  our 
departure from the Council. 

In  the  field  of  peacekeeping,  as  Chair  of  the 
Security  Council  Working  Group  on  Peacekeeping 
Operations,  Japan  helped  to  reinvigorate  the  Group’s 
discussions  by  inviting  troop-  and  police-contributing 
countries  and  relevant  regional  organizations  to  its 
meetings.  Those  discussions  were  compiled  into  four 
interim reports (S/2009/398, annex, S/2009/659, annex, 
S/2010/424,  annex  and  S/2010/696,  annex).  They  led 
to  a  better  understanding  of  three  issues  —  first,  the 
gap  between  Security  Council  mandates  and 
the 
capacity  of  peacekeeping  operations, 
secondly, 
transition and exit strategies for peacekeeping missions 
and, thirdly, triangular cooperation among the Security 
Council,  troop-  and  police-contributing  countries  and 
the Secretariat. 
Japanese  Self-Defense  Forces  have  been  on  the 

ground 
the  United  Nations 
Stabilization  Mission  in  the  removal  of  debris  and 
land-levelling  for 
the  construction  of  camps  for 
internally displaced persons. Japan is also preparing to 
dispatch  an  engineer  contingent  to  UNMISS,  as  I 
mentioned earlier. 

With regard to non-proliferation issues, Japan has 
been  actively  engaged  in  the  discussions  in  both  the 
Security  Council  Committee  established  pursuant  to 
resolution  1718  (2006)  and  the  Security  Council 
Committee  established  pursuant  to  resolution  1737 
(2006), which address nuclear issues in the Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  and  Iran,  respectively.  In 
the  1737  Committee,  in  particular,  Japan  served  as 
Committee  Chair  and  contributed  to  the  establishment 
of the Panel of Experts in November last year.  

With  regard  to  the  Security  Council  Committee 
established  pursuant  to  resolution  1540  (2004),  Japan 
in  Haiti  assisting 
they  work 
the  Council,  as 
supported  the  Committee’s  effort  to  compile  matrices 
indicating  the  status  of  implementation  of  relevant 
resolutions by all Member States. After its term on the 
Council  ended,  Japan  co-organized  a  seminar  on 
non-proliferation  and  disarmament  here  in  New  York 
with colleagues from Turkey and Poland, stressing the 
importance  of  relevant  Council  actions  such  as 
resolutions 1718 (2006), 1874 (2009) and 1929 (2010). 
We  plan  to  organize  a  similar  event  this  coming 
December as well.  

In conclusion, I would like to express my sincere 
appreciation  for  the  strong  support  and  the  significant 
accomplishments achieved by our outgoing colleagues 
from  Gabon,  Nigeria,  Brazil,  Bosnia  and  Herzegovina 
and  Lebanon.  I  would  also  like  to  wholeheartedly 
welcome  the  newly  elected  non-permanent  members, 
namely,  Togo,  Morocco,  Pakistan,  Guatemala  and 
Azerbaijan. I trust that the new members will continue 
the  renewed  focus  on  the  Council’s  relationship  with 
the General Assembly, by ensuring the transparency of 
the  Council’s  work  through  information-sharing  with 
non-members  of 
to 
strengthen  the  maintenance  of  international  peace  and 
security. Japan, as a continuing partner to the Security 
Council,  will  remain  committed  to  the  work  of  the 
Council and looks forward to the day we join it again. 
Mr.  Guerber  (Switzerland)  (spoke  in  French): 

The  first  goal  set  down  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations,  in Article  1,  paragraph  1,  is  the  maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security.  According  to 
Article  24,  paragraph  1,  of  the  Charter,  the  primary 
responsibility  for  that  mission  is  conferred  on  the 
Security  Council,  which  must  act  on  behalf  of  us  all. 
The  question  of  the  relationship  between  the  General 
Assembly and the Security Council can be approached 
legally,  philosophically  and  even  morally.  But 
whichever  approach  one  chooses,  the  presentation  of 
the annual report of the Security Council to the General 
Assembly is a unique moment: the sole opportunity for 
a structured dialogue between the two organs on one of 
the  most  important  goals  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is 
through that dialogue that all of us, the members of the 
Security  Council  and  the  members  of  the  General 
Assembly together, are held accountable to the Charter 
of  the  Organization  and  its  primary  objective,  that  is, 
the quest for a world at peace. 

At the outset, Switzerland would like to thank the 
President  of  the  General Assembly  for  organizing  this 
meeting.  Our  thanks  also  go  to  the  Germany  for  its 
14 

11-58372 


considerable  efforts to provide us with  a serious basis 
for reflection for today’s debate, as well as to Portugal 
for  its  comprehensive  presentation  of  the  work  of  the 
Security  Council  from  summer  2010  to  summer  2011. 
As a member of the group of five small nations (S-5), 
Switzerland aligns itself with the statement delivered a 
short while ago by the representative of Costa Rica on 
behalf of the group. 

Hardly  a  year  goes  by  without  events  of  historic 
proportions.  But  it  seems  to  us  that  the  12  months 
covered by the report before us (A/66/2) have seen the 
world  shaken  by  unforeseeable  events,  with  profound 
repercussions  on  peace  and  security.  Some  of  them 
have  degenerated  into  violent  conflicts  that  have 
resulted  in  thousands  of  victims,  while  others  have 
proven  to  be  peaceful  vectors  of  change.  Some  have 
stirred the Security Council to immediate and effective 
action,  while  others  have  escalated  over  months 
without  an  adequate  response  from  the  Council.  Most 
people would agree that the changes we have witnessed 
over the past few months are irreversible and will have 
great repercussions on tomorrow’s world. 

Let  us  assume  for  a  moment  that  we  are  all 
shareholders of a market-leading company in a certain 
industry. Let us also assume that our company has just 
gone  through  one  of  the  most  turbulent  years  in  its 
existence.  Most  shareholders  would  undoubtedly 
expect  the  company’s  annual  report  to  contain  an 
analysis  of  how  management  successfully  navigated 
that  turbulent  period.  As  a  State  Member  of  the 
Organization,  we  had  the  same  expectations  with 
regard  to  this  year’s  annual  report  of  the  Security 
Council.  Unfortunately,  our  expectations  were  not 
entirely met. 

It  will  probably  never  be  possible  to  turn  the 
report  of  the  Security  Council,  which  is  a  product  of 
consensus,  into  a  thorough  political  analysis.  The 
members of the S-5 have repeatedly made suggestions 
for  making  that  document  more  relevant.  First  of  all, 
the monthly assessments by the presidencies should be 
prepared  in  a  timely  manner  and  used  to  analyse  the 
work  of  the  Council.  Such  assessments  could  then  be 
used  to  prepare  the  annual  report.  The  report  should 
systematically  link  thematic  and  cross-cutting  issues 
with deliberations on regional situations. Finally, since 
most  Member  States  sooner  or  later  learn  about  the 
differences  of  opinion  among  Council  members  on 
sensitive  political  issues,  the  Council  should  mention 
its points of disagreement in a purely factual manner. 
A/66/PV.50
in 
the  Council’s  response 

We  understand  that  it  may  be  difficult  in  as 
formal  a  setting  as  today’s  debate  to  hold  an  in-depth 
discussion  on 
to  delicate 
matters relating to peace and security. That is why the 
S-5 has long called for informal venues in which views 
can be exchanged between the first draft of the  report 
and its final adoption by the Security Council. 

During the reporting period, the Security Council 
made  a  number  of  significant  decisions  and  took 
relevant action on several fronts. Let me mention just a 
few examples.  

First,  in  the  run-up  to  the  referendum  on  South 
Sudan, the Council adopted a strategic approach to its 
work  on  the  Sudan  by  conducting  field  missions, 
making  recommendations  to  the  parties  and  taking 
concrete  action.  In  our  view,  that  attests  to  the 
Council’s  capacities 
the  area  of  preventive 
diplomacy.  Regrettably,  after  the  referendum,  that 
positive momentum waned. 

Secondly, with regard to Nepal, we commend the 
Council’s successful termination of the mandate of the 
United Nations Mission in Nepal, which was a special 
political  mission.  A  series  of  recent  events  in  the 
country  gives  us  hope  that  lasting  peace  is  within 
reach.  We  hope  that  the  Council  will  draw  the 
necessary  lessons  from  that  experience  for  its  future 
work. 

Thirdly,  with  regard  to  Libya,  we  would  like  to 
also  congratulate  the  Council  on  its  very  rapid  and 
unanimous  referral  of  the  situation  in  Libya  to  the 
International  Criminal  Court.  That  is  a  positive  first 
step in the fight against impunity. 

Fourthly,  on  the  issue  of  sexual  violence,  in 
adopting  resolution  1960  (2010),  the  Council  took  a 
historic  decision  to  establish  a  mechanism  to  more 
actively combat sexual violence in conflict. In many of 
the conflicts on the Council’s agenda, the use of sexual 
violence  as  a  weapon  of  war  is  as  appalling  as  it  is 
systematic.  The  new  mechanism  provided  for  in  that 
resolution  has  yet  to  be  implemented  and  linked  with 
the  Council’s  substantive  work  to  implement  the 
provisions  of  resolution  1325  (2000)  in  all  regions  of 
the world. 

Allow  me  to  also  mention  some  examples  of 
areas  in  which  the  Council  could  improve  the  quality 
of its work.  
11-58372 

15 

A/66/PV.50 


We  think  that  the  Council  should  have  acted 
much  earlier  in  order  to  prevent  the  escalation  of  the 
conflict  in  Côte  d’Ivoire  and  to  protect  its  civilian 
population. 

We sincerely regret that a Council member vetoed 
a draft resolution (S/2011/24) on illegal settlements in 
the Middle East. 

We  encourage  the  Council  to  return  to  the 
practice  by  which  the  expert  groups  of  the  sanctions 
committees  report  directly  to  the  Security  Council. 
Their reports should subsequently be made public. 
The President returned to the Chair. 

Finally,  with  regard  to  working  methods,  we 

welcome 
the  now-established  practice  of  holding 
briefings  by  the  Department  of  Political  Affairs  as  a 
means  of  enhancing  the  Council’s  preventive  role. 
Nevertheless, we must note that the Council’s working 
methods  have  evolved  very  slowly  and  that  the 
implementation  of  the  measures  listed  in  presidential 
note 507 is still far too modest. 

In conclusion, allow me to thank all members of 
the Security Council for their unfailing commitment to 
shouldering  their  heavy  workload  every  day.  We 
greatly appreciate their efforts. We thank them for the 
transparency  recently  shown 
the  Council  and 
encourage  them  to  further  improve  their  working 
methods. 

Mr.  Oyarzun  (Spain)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  My 
delegation  welcomes  the  opportunity  to  take  part  in 
today’s  debate  on  the  annual  report  of  the  Security 
Council to the General Assembly (A/66/2). 

At the outset, I would like to thank the Permanent 
Representative  of  Portugal  for  his  statement  as 
President  of  the  Council.  We  are  pleased  to  note  the 
efforts  made  to  increase  the  analytical  component  of 
the  report,  in  line  with  the  requests  made  by  my 
delegation  in  previous  such  debates.  We  encourage 
efforts  made  to  follow  that  path  in  the  future  and  to 
include more qualitative information. 

to  positive 
interaction  between  the  Security  Council  and  the 
General  Assembly.  The  interaction  and  cooperation 
between  those  two  main  organs  of  the  United  Nations 
should  be  improved  through  greater  transparency  and 
accountability,  which  would  promote  the  adoption  of 
Spain  attaches  great 
importance 
in 
and 
armed 
conflict,  women 
more  useful  methods  to  prevent  and  eliminate  threats 
to international peace and security. 

The  United  Nations  Charter  provides  guidelines 
for  interaction  between  the  General Assembly  and  the 
Security Council. Article 15 and Article 24, paragraph 
3, provide for the submission by the Council of annual 
reports  as  well  as  important  special  reports  to  the 
General Assembly. 

Among  the  matters  addressed  by  the  Security 
Council, cross-cutting issues are of special relevance to 
the  Assembly.  Issues  such  as 
the  fight  against 
terrorism,  non-proliferation  and  disarmament, 
the 
protection  of  civilians  in  armed  conflict,  children  and 
armed 
conflict, 
peacebuilding, security sector reform, the disarmament 
of ex-combatants and the prevention of conflict are of 
special  interest,  since  the Assembly  is  responsible  for 
various  aspects  of  each  of  them.  Greater  coordination 
and interaction between the Council and the Assembly 
in  dealing  with  all  of  those  issues  would  be  desirable 
and could include the presentation of specific reports in 
order  to  make  the  work  of  the  United  Nations  more 
effective.  
It  would  also  be  desirable  to  have  greater 

transparency 
the  Council’s  work  and  greater 
participation  by  Member  States  in  its  activities  and 
decisions, especially on those issues that directly affect 
them. My delegation believes that open meetings of the 
Council  should  be  the  norm,  as  non-members  would 
then  have  an  opportunity  to  be  better  informed  on  its 
activities.  In  recent  years,  much  progress  has  been 
made, but together we must do even more.  

It  would  also  be  desirable  that  the  Council’s 
debates more often be opened to statements by States, 
or  made  on  behalf  of  a  group  of  States,  that  have  a 
particular interest in the issues under discussion. There 
should  also  be  greater  interaction  and  cooperation 
among  countries  contributing  troops  to  peacekeeping 
operations  authorized  by  the  Council.  My  delegation 
believes it extremely important to take into account the 
viewpoints of contributors in adopting mandates and in 
extending  operations,  which  happens  to  a  certain 
extent. 

Spain  appreciates  the  important  role  that  the 
Council  plays  in  maintaining  international  peace  and 
security,  and  believes  that  it  should  strengthen  its 
activities  in  the  area  of  preventive  diplomacy  before 
international  crises  arise,  and  should  be  able  to  act 
in 
16 

11-58372 
the  President  of 
judgement  and 
the  Organization  a 


more decisively when there are conflicts. That is fully 
in line with the increasing importance of tools such as 
the  General 
mediation,  which 
Assembly,  with  good 
to  Spain’s 
satisfaction,  chose  as  the  main  theme  of  the  current 
session.  Increasing  interaction  between  the  General 
Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  in  that  area  in 
particular is advisable so as to fulfil the purpose of the 
Charter in maintaining international peace and security. 
Ms. Anderson (Ireland): I welcome the fact that 

a  separate  debate  has  been  scheduled  this  year  on  the 
annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  (A/66/2).  That 
allows  members  of 
fuller 
opportunity  to  comment  and  offer  feedback  on  the 
work of the Council during the period under review. 

In  terms  of  both  composition  and  agenda,  the 
performance  of  the  Security  Council  in  2011  has  a 
particularly  strong  claim  on  our  attention.  The 
composition is noteworthy. As one commentator put it 
last year, by any standards, the Council in 2011 could 
be  the  strongest  group  of  United  Nations  and  global 
stakeholders  ever  assembled  on 
the  Council.  In 
addition to dealing with the ongoing heavy agenda, that 
high-profile  Council  has  had  to  confront  the  tectonic 
shift of the Arab Spring. 

It  will  be  important  that,  at  an  appropriate  time, 
the  United  Nations  membership  as  a  whole  engage  in 
serious  collective  reflection  on  lessons  to  draw  from 
such momentous months in the lifetime of the Security 
Council.  It 
too  early  for  such 
considered  reflection,  which,  in  any  event,  is  not  the 
purpose  of  today’s  debate.  However,  we  owe  it  to  the 
importance  of  the  issues  at  stake  to  ensure  that  an 
in-depth  analysis  occurs  before  too  much  time  has 
passed. 

In  commenting  on  the  report  before  us  today,  I 
shall  limit  myself  to  three  topics.  From  the  vantage 
point of a non-member of the Council, I would wish to 
say  a  word  about  the  experience  of  participation  in 
open thematic debates. I have a short comment on two 
substantive  areas  of  Security  Council  engagement, 
namely, peacebuilding and the responsibility to protect. 

As the report makes clear, the Security Council is 
scheduling  more  thematic  debates,  with  participation 
open to the membership as a whole. We are conscious 
that  opinions  vary  about 
just  how  relevant  and 
worthwhile such debates are. On the one hand, there is 
a  clear  view  that  the  Council  must  recognize  the 
is  probably  still 
11-58372 

A/66/PV.50
the 
the 
increasingly  complex  security  challenges  of 
its  deliberations 
twenty-first  century  and  adapt 
accordingly.  But 
those  who  are 
there  are  also 
concerned about a possible blurring of the dividing line 
between the business of the General Assembly and the 
Security Council, or that voice fears about a dissipation 
of focus by the Council. 

Ireland is firmly in the camp of those who see the 
necessity  for  a  more  sophisticated  and  multifaceted 
appreciation  of 
twenty-first  century  security 
challenges. We applaud the decisions to hold thematic 
debates that examine, for example, the interdependence 
between  security  and  development  or  the  security 
dimension of climate change. Nor would we ever view 
debates  on  women,  peace  and  security  as  a  soft  focus 
add-on to the hard-core work of the Security Council. 
The role of women is central to both the problem and 
the potential solution of multiple crises worldwide. 

However,  as  a  delegation  that  has  spoken  in  a 
number  of  Security  Council  thematic  debates  in  the 
course of the year, we have a concern about how such 
debates  can  be  made  more  meaningful.  Like  others, 
Ireland  is  selective  as  to  the  debates  in  which  it 
participates. We choose to speak when we may have a 
particularly  strong  interest  or  a  particular  experience 
that  we  wish  to  share.  The  hope  and  intention,  of 
course, are that our contribution can bring some added 
value. 

There  are  clearly  some  benefits  to  participation. 
First,  there  is  the  opportunity  to  register  a  national 
viewpoint.  Secondly,  the  statements  remain  on  the 
record  for  those  who  may  wish  to  trawl  through  them 
at  a  later  date. Thirdly,  the  number  of  Member  States 
contributing  to  a  debate  may,  in  itself,  send  an 
important  message  as  to  the  level  of  engagement  and 
concern on a particular issue. 

None of that is negligible, but is it enough? It has 
to be said that the interactivity element in such debates 
is  close  to  zero.  The  outcome  document  is  typically 
agreed by Security Council members in advance of the 
debate. By the time non-members come to speak in the 
Chamber,  it  is  highly  unlikely  that  Security  Council 
members at the senior level are present to hear them. 

While  we  all  need  to  have  a  realistic  acceptance 
of  practical  constraints,  I  think  it  important  that 
non-members  of  the  Security  Council  avail  of  today’s 
debate  to  send  a  signal  that  we  wish  for  serious 
consideration  of  how  arrangements  for  open  thematic 
17 
coherent 
effective 
approach 
this  morning  on  behalf  of 
A/66/PV.50 

debates  can  be  made  more  meaningful.  It  was  very 
encouraging  that  that  point  was  clearly  flagged  in  the 
interventions 
the 
Non-Aligned  Movement  and  the  group  of  five  small 
nations. 

to 
A 
peacebuilding  that  draws  on  civilian  capacities  and 
places  national  ownership  at  its  heart  is  an  area  of 
growing importance to Member States, United Nations 
agencies  and  civil  society  organizations. 
I  was 
honoured to co-facilitate the 2010 review of the United 
Nations  peacebuilding  architecture.  I  welcome  the 
view  expressed  by  Assistant  Secretary-General  Judy 
Cheng-Hopkins  that  that  process  generated  significant 
momentum,  which  has  reinvigorated 
the  working 
methods of the Peacebuilding Commission and focused 
them on improving the impact in the field.  

One of the key recommendations of our report is 
the  need  “to  create  a  new  dynamic  between  a  more 
forthcoming  Security  Council  and  a  better  performing 
Peacebuilding  Commission”  (A/64/868,  p.  4).  The 
annual report demonstrates that the Security Council is 
indeed 
somewhat  more 
forthcoming.  Open  thematic  debates  on  peacebuilding 
were held during the reporting period; the Chair of the 
Commission presented its annual report; and the Chairs 
of the country-specific configurations delivered a joint 
statement to the Council. 

However,  more  needs  to  be  done  if  the  potential 
added value of the Peacebuilding Commission is to be 
translated  into  reality. The  Council  could,  and  should, 
be more active, more creative and more demanding in 
its  relations  with  a  Commission  that  now  has  an 
expanded  agenda  of  six  countries.  The  steps  that  the 
Council  should 
into 
resolutions, mandate renewal and statements regarding 
countries that are on the Commission’s agenda, and the 
participation,  as  appropriate,  of  country-configuration 
Chairs  in  relevant  Security  Council  Working  Groups, 
such  as  the  Working  Group  on  Children  and  Armed 
Conflict. 

A  particular  onus  to  invigorate  and  develop 
Council-Commission  relations  falls  to  those  members 
of the Peacebuilding Commission that are also Security 
Council  members.  Of  course,  the  General  Assembly, 
the 
together  with 
Commission.  As  well 
a  more 
forthcoming  attitude  by  the  Security  Council,  the 
is  a  parent  of 
advocating 
the  Council, 
as 
include  seeking 
showing 
itself 
to  be 
take 
input 
and 

the 
the  first 
imminent 
threat  of  slaughter 
time,  of  a  reference 
General  Assembly  should  itself  seek  to  have  more 
meaningful  input  into  peacebuilding  policy,  not  least 
because  it  can  draw  on  the  experience  of  the  full 
membership  of  the  United  Nations,  particularly  in  the 
area of civilian capacity. 

The  past  year  has  been  a  significant  one  for  the 
responsibility to protect doctrine. Benghazi provided a 
dramatic illustration of what that means. We all recall 
the  gross  and  systematic  violations  of  human  rights 
committed  by  the  regime  in  Libya  against  its  own 
civilian  population  and  the  widespread  condemnation 
of  that  repression,  including  by  the  League  of  Arab 
States, the African Union, the Secretary General of the 
Organization  of  Islamic  Cooperation  and  the  United 
Nations. 
Following  years  of  debate  on  the  doctrine  and 

faced  with 
in 
Benghazi, the Security Council was moved to act. The 
inclusion,  for 
to 
responsibility  to  protect  in  a  Chapter  VII  resolution 
provided the high-water mark so far this doctrine. 

Subsequently,  there  was  disagreement  among 
Council  members  on  whether  the  mandate  set  out  in 
resolution  1973 
in 
particular  regarding  the  protection  of  civilians  clause. 
The  case  of  Libya,  as  with  any  intervention  in  a 
complex situation, offers lessons to be learned. But it is 
imperative  that  the  principle  of  the  responsibility  to 
protect  and  the  progress  made  in  relation  to  its 
application  be  safeguarded.  A  working  consensus  on 
the implementation of the responsibility to protect must 
be  established  so  that,  should  the  need  arise,  the 
Security Council will again be in a position to protect 
innocent civilians. 
It was clear during the General Assembly debate 

in  July 
regional  organizations  can  play  a 
significant  role  in  relation  to  the  responsibility  to 
protect.  As 
the 
Organization  for  Security  and  Cooperation  in  Europe 
(OSCE)  from  1  January,  Ireland  will  seek  to  support 
the  implementation  of  the  responsibility  to  protect 
agenda in an OSCE framework, including in relation to 
important  preventive  work  and  the  building  up  of 
States’ capacities to protect their own civilians. 

Never  more  so  than  now,  the  Security  Council 
bears a huge responsibility. But as noted at the outset, 
in  2011  at  least,  that  responsibility  rests  on  broad 
shoulders.  Much  is  expected  of  the  broad-shouldered 
incoming  Chairman-in-Office  of 
(2011)  had  been  exceeded, 
that 
18 

11-58372 
for 


Council. We urge further efforts to meet the needs and 
hopes of these tumultuous times. 
Mr.  Errázuriz  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I 

should  like  to  begin  my  statement  by  thanking  the 
Permanent  Representative  of  Portugal 
the 
comprehensive introduction of the annual report of the 
Security  Council  for  the  period  1  August  2010  to 
31 July  2011  (A/66/2).  I  also  express  my  delegation’s 
appreciation  to  the  representative  of  Germany  for  the 
introduction  to  the  report  prepared  in  his  capacity  as 
President  of  the  Council  for  the  month  of  July. 
Likewise,  I  congratulate  you,  Mr.  President,  for  your 
decision  to  decouple  the  consideration  of  the  agenda 
item  on  the  report  of  the  Security  Council  from  the 
item  “Question  of  equitable  representation  on  and 
increase in the membership of the Security Council and 
related  matters”.  That  simple  step  will  enable  further 
examination  of  the  Council’s  work  by  the  Assembly, 
without  ignoring  the  natural  relationship  between  the 
two  subjects,  and  will  focus  our  efforts  on  what  we 
hope will be a fruitful analysis. 

The  presentation  of  the  report  of  the  Security 
Council  to  the  General  Assembly  is  highly  important 
and useful, due to the numerous relevant issues relating 
to  international  peace  and  security  and  because  it 
provides  a  complete  record  of  the  Council’s  work. 
Likewise, it is a way of providing greater transparency 
to  its  working  methods  and  an  opportunity  to  identify 
the  areas  of  work  or  procedures  that  possibly  need 
improvement. 

In that context, I reiterate my country’s interest in 
achieving  greater  transparency  in  the  Council’s  work 
and  functions;  not  only  because  that  would  facilitate 
communication  and  dialogue  with  Member  States,  but 
also  as  a  possible  way  to  strengthen  the  image  of  the 
United Nations. 

My delegation is convinced that there is room for 
this  report  to  evolve  and  refocus  to  become  a  more 
substantive  document  reflecting  the  various  positions 
of  its  members  in  relation  to  the  highly  sensitive 
situations  and  issues  that  it  considers.  Clearly,  the 
report  is  a  good  record  of  the  meetings  and  subject 
matter addressed by the Council; but it does not seem 
to  be  an  appropriate  instrument  for  understanding  the 
development or evolution of a subject, and is even less 
so  when  trying  to  understand  the  reasoning  behind  an 
action undertaken. 
A/66/PV.50
in 
to  prevent  further  progress 

Clearly,  major,  not  minor,  progress  has  been 
made  in  recent  years.  We  therefore  believe  that  we 
should  not  be  complacent  in  that  regard.  There  is 
nothing 
the  right 
direction. In that context, we attach due importance to 
the  report  reflecting  the  public  meetings  held  by  the 
Council, which is not done today. Similarly, we believe 
that coordinated work among the Security Council and 
other  bodies  of  the  Organization  and  regional  groups 
and the opportunity to listen to Special Representatives 
in  a  timely  manner  and  hold  interactive  debates  and 
consultations are of fundamental importance and must 
be stressed. 

That type of work would make it possible to not 
only  improve  the  quality  and  speed  of  responding  to 
crisis  situations  on  the  Council’s  agenda,  but  would 
also  make  it  possible  to  provide  a  more  fluid  and 
fruitful  exchange  of  information  which  in  turn,  would 
allow  the  Council  to  become  a  stronger  tool  for 
preventing potential conflicts. 

This  is  why  I  would  like  to  highlight  the 
unprecedented  initiative  of  Brazil,  whose  Permanent 
Representative, at the end of Brazil’s presidency of the 
Council, 
informal 
dialogue  in  order  to  report  on  the  main  events  during 
its  presidency.  That  was  undoubtedly  a  concrete  step 
towards  greater  transparency.  Chile  regrets  that  it  was 
not repeated. 

In  that  regard,  I  would  also  like  to  highlight  the 
initiative  by  the  Colombian  delegation.  During  its 
presidency of the Council in April, Colombia convened 
a high-level open debate on the situation in Haiti (see, 
S/PV.6510).  That  is  the  type  of  exercise  we  are 
referring  to  when  we  speak  of  coordinated  work  with 
the  participation  of  other  relevant  actors  in  order  to 
better  understand 
the  Council’s  decision-making 
processes. Action  of  that  type  would  make  it  possible 
to  promote  a  comprehensive  global  vision  where  the 
interests  and  concerns  of  the  various  actors  involved 
are known to the Security Council, which can then to a 
greater or lesser extent, include those in the decisions it 
adopts. 

I take the opportunity of that reference to Haiti to 
highlight  the  annual  dialogue  and  the  work  of  the 
Group  of  Latin  American  and  Caribbean  States  to 
seriously 
the  many  positions 
represented, various issues on the international agenda 
that have come to the attention of the Security Council. 
address,  despite 
invited  Member  States 
to  an 
11-58372 

19 

A/66/PV.50 


My  delegation  noted  with  satisfaction  that  the 
concept  of  the  responsibility  to  protect  has  been 
included in the deliberations of the Council, as well as 
included in resolutions 1970 (2011) and 1973 (2011) in 
the  case  of  Libya.  However,  the  implementation  of 
those resolutions also leaves lessons for us to learn. In 
that regard, Chile believes that the terms of a mandate 
should  be  very  carefully  studied  when  it  is  created  to 
authorize  action,  such  as  in  the  aforementioned  case. 
The  mandate  must  be  clear,  precise  and  for  a  limited 
duration. If it is not, it will open the way to undesired 
situations  and,  moreover,  could  awaken  reticence 
among some members of the Council towards using the 
concept and adapting it to a specific situation. 
Finally,  we  are  convinced  that  ongoing  adequate 

fluid  communications  between 
the  Security 
and 
Council  and  the  General  Assembly  that  respect  their 
individual purviews is fundamental in order to achieve 
the maintenance of international peace and security  in 
keeping with the purposes and principles of the Charter 
of the United Nations. 

I  cannot  conclude  without  acknowledging  the 
work  of  the  Security  Council  in  an  increasingly 
complex  international  context  in  which  peace  and 
security  sometimes  seem  difficult  to  achieve.  At  the 
same  time,  we  also  see  hope  in  the  movements  and 
signs appearing that favour democracy and the rule of 
law.  It  is  precisely  these  that  should  be  the  incentives 
driving us to seek out new mechanisms enabling us to 
achieve  a  comprehensive  vision  and  more  transparent 
management of the Council’s work. 
Mr.  Valero  Briceño  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 

Venezuela)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The  report  of  the 
Security  Council  (A/66/2)  that  we  are  considering 
today  merits  special  attention  for  its  implications  for 
international peace and security. 

We endorse the statement made by the Permanent 
Representative  of  Egypt  on  behalf  of  the  countries  of 
the Non-Aligned Movement. 
The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  believes 

that 
it 
international 
relations  and  transform  the  unfair  system  of  global 
power relationships, which is reflected in the structure 
and agenda of the United Nations. To that end, we have 
repeatedly  requested  that  the  Security  Council  not 
continue to usurp functions that belong to other organs 
of the United Nations system and that the countries that 
to  democratize 
is  necessary 
The 
of  war 
champions 
make up the General Assembly should have real impact 
on world affairs. 

Today  the  slow  and  growing  decrepitude  of  the 
United  Nations,  particularly  the  Security  Council,  is 
understood. The voices around the world declaring that 
the  Security  Council,  as  the  expression  of  nations’ 
sovereign  will,  has  collapsed  are  representative  and 
getting  louder.  This  organ  is  marked  by  a  clear 
contradiction: it is supposed to defend the principles of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  but  it  frequently 
damages them. 

Today we are a very long way from enjoying the 
peace and security to which humankind aspires. Rather 
than  becoming  more  democratic,  in  recent  years  the 
elitism  of  the  United  Nations  has  become  more 
pronounced. 
and 
interventionism  are  working  furiously  to  weaken  the 
role  of  the  General Assembly,  which  represents  every 
Government  in  the  world,  and  to  monopolize  and 
securitize every item on the United Nations agenda. 

Venezuela advocates for a complete overhaul and 
democratization of the United Nations, with the aim of 
ensuring  that  it  represents  the  aspirations  of  all  the 
peoples  of  the  world.  This  is  how  President  Hugo 
Chávez  Frías  put  it  in  his  message  to  the  General 
Assembly read by Minister for Foreign Affairs Nicolás 
Maduro Moros on 27 September: 


“A  crucial  and  decisive  first  step  towards 
restructuring  the  United  Nations  would  be  to 
eliminate  the  category  of  permanent  member 
along  with  the  right  to  veto  in  the  Security 
Council. Likewise, the decision-making power of 
the  General  Assembly  must  be  democratically 
maximized.  A  comprehensive  review  of 
the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  is  also  urgently 
required, with the aim of drafting a new Charter.” 
(A/66/PV.29, p. 5) 
It  is  worrying  that  the  report  we  are  considering 

the  expansion  of  peacekeeping 
today  highlights 
operations  mandates,  responsibility  for  which  belongs 
to  a  large  extent  to  the  General  Assembly.  It  is  also 
worrying 
that  peacekeeping  operations’  mandates 
include actions in the countries where those operations 
are  conducted  that  interfere  in  matters  that  are  in  the 
purview of national public institutions, such as reform 
of  the  electoral,  judicial  and  public  security  sectors, 
among others. 
20 

11-58372 
ignores  numerous 



The report emphasizes that a large percentage of 
the Security Council’s activities take place in Africa. It 
should  be  noted  that  those  activities  focus  on  clearly 
military matters in which the “mediation efforts” of the 
United  Nations  are  not  infrequently  conducted  on 
behalf  of  one  of  the  parties  or  to  appease  the  selfish 
interests  of  imperialist  Powers.  It  is  worrying  that  the 
report 
and 
concerns that have been expressed by a majority of the 
countries  that  make  up  the  General  Assembly  and 
whose  opinions  have  been  presented  in  many  open 
debates. 

So long as it is the Security Council that defines 
threats  to  international  peace  and  security  and  uses 
Chapter VII of the Charter arbitrarily, we will continue 
to see an increasingly insecure world. We believe that 
General Assembly  resolutions  should  be  binding,  that 
every  country  should  be  obliged  to  comply  with  them 
and that this organ should exercise full responsibility in 
matters  of 
international  peace  and  security.  The 
Security Council must not continue to tailor its efforts 
to suit certain members so that they can carry out their 
ambitions to develop their expansionist interests in the 
countries  of  the  South  —  Syria,  Libya,  Iran,  Côte 
d’Ivoire,  the  Sudan  and  Yemen  being  just  a  few 
examples.  Meanwhile,  what  has  the  Council  done  to 
stop  the  atrocities  that  Israel  perpetrates  on  the 
Palestinian people? 

We  recognize  the  importance  of  the  democratic 
demonstrations that have emerged in North Africa and 
the  Arab  world.  Venezuelans  support  the  legitimate 
aspirations  of  all  peoples  who  seek  to  attain  their 
sovereign human rights and enjoy democracy, freedom 
and independence. The people are the masters of their 
own  destinies.  The  continuing  outside  interference  by 
imperialist  Powers  in  the  internal  demonstrations  and 
protests  of  countries  of  the  South  must  therefore  be 
rejected.  It  is  deplorable  that  some  of  the  warring 
parties are being encouraged from the outside, instead 
of  the  promotion  of  an  inclusive,  sovereign  dialogue 
that enables those peoples to find peaceful solutions to 
their  differences  themselves.  It  is  deplorable  that 
instead  of  promoting 
for  peace  and 
understanding  between  peoples,  civil  wars  and 
fratricidal confrontations are being fomented. 

The influence that the big transnational economic 
and financial corporations have on decision-making in 
various  organs  of  the  United  Nations,  particularly  the 
Security  Council,  is  growing.  Indeed,  the  imperialist 
recommendations 
the  quest 
A/66/PV.50
wars  of  today  are  being  privatized.  Some  countries 
represented  on  the  Security  Council  promote  harmful 
resolutions that support those interests. 

The  democratization  that  the  United  Nations 
system  needs  today  must,  as  President  Chávez  said, 
involve  a  complete  overhaul  of  the  Organization. 
Therefore, it is imperative that we increasingly build a 
broad  alliance  between  peoples  and  Governments  so 
that they can work towards the democratization of the 
international system. 
Mr.  Jerandi  (Tunisia):  Mr.  President,  at  the 

outset I would like to commend you on your efforts to 
render  the  work  of  the  General Assembly  as  effective 
and successful as possible.  
My delegation would like to associate itself with 

the 
the  Permanent 
statement  made  earlier  by 
Representative of Egypt on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement. 

Since  the  General Assembly  adopted  resolutions 
2864  (XXVI)  and  2991  (XXVII)  in  1971  and  1972, 
respectively,  Member  States  have  been  seeking, 
through  ideas,  recommendations  and  proposals,  to 
ensure  that  the  work  of  the  executive  body  reaches 
higher  levels  of  effectiveness,  in  accordance  with  the 
rules  and  provisions  of  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  expectations  of  the  international 
community. Since then, the debate on the report of the 
Security Council has focused on the ways to attain that 
goal.  Despite  numerous  contributions  and  the  array  of 
resolutions adopted in this regard, there is still a great 
need  for  improvement.  My  delegation  would  like  to 
stress the following aspects of the matter. 

First is the need to improve the reporting process 
and  the  methodology.  It  goes  without  saying  that  the 
report  of  the  Security  Council  has  been  improved  in 
some  aspects.  The  established  practice  of  interaction 
between  the  President  of  the  Council  and  the  general 
membership  of  the  United  Nations  has,  for  four  years 
now, definitely been one of those welcomed and lauded 
improvements,  as  was  mentioned  in  the  statement  of 
the Non-Aligned Movement. 

We also think that, despite their heavy schedules, 
both  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the 
President  of  the  Security  Council  should  meet  and 
interact more often during the session in order to make 
sure  that  concerns  and  proposals  from  the  Member 
States  are  taken  into  consideration  during  the  drafting 
11-58372 

21 

to 
A/66/PV.50 

of  the  report,  and  as  a  means  to  ensure  constant 
interaction between the two bodies. 

Moreover, we have noticed the persisting lack of 
a real analytical approach in the drafting of the report. 
Its content has remained a mostly descriptive narrative, 
which  clearly  makes  the  report  a  good  source  of 
information  about 
the  Council’s  meetings  and 
outcomes  but  certainly  does  not  reflect  the  real 
dynamics  in  the  Council  and  the  context  in  which  the 
deliberations were conducted and the decisions, if any, 
were taken. Indeed, what Member States would like to 
see is a report that addresses the core of the Council’s 
work,  its  internal  methods  of  dealing  with  sensitive 
issues  and  its  attempts  to  solve  them  with  a  view  to 
preserving peace and security in the world. 

In  fact,  when  the  General  Assembly  adopted 
resolution  51/193  in  1996,  Member  States  proposed 
specific  steps  and  ways 
the 
improvement  of  the  report  of  the  Security  Council.  In 
paragraph 3 of that resolution, the Assembly  

“Encourages  the  Security  Council,  in  the 

submission  of 
the  General 
Assembly,  to  provide  in  a  timely  manner  a 
substantive, analytical and material account of its 
work”. 
to  contribute 
reports 
its 
to 
to 
the 
in  addition 
We still believe that there is room for improvement in 
this regard. 

Secondly, it is necessary to address more broadly 
the  issues  and  events  marking  the  reporting  period. 
That  cannot  be  dissociated  from  the  need  to  infuse 
some analytical spirit into the report of the Council. In 
my  delegation’s  view,  the  report  cannot  be  reliable, 
precise  and  useful  if  it  maintains  its  current  body  and 
structure.  In  fact, 
traditional 
predominant  issues,  we  all  know  that  each  year  is 
marked by specific events. The Council, as a guarantor 
of international peace and  security, is required to deal 
efficiently  with  those  issues  and  give  them  adequate 
time and effort.  

The  report  on  the  Council’s  activities  should 
reflect that reality. Thus a rethinking of its content and 
components  is  recommended  to  make  it  relevant  for  a 
specific  reporting  period,  rather  than  enumerating  the 
same topics on an equal basis and in the same order. 

Thirdly, with regard to the Council’s attention to 
and  performance  on  some  of  the  issues  on  its  agenda, 
all  Member  States  would  agree  that  the  volume  and 
these 
number  of  issues  that  the  Council  is  dealing  with 
increases  every  single  year.  That  constitutes  an 
additional challenge. Some conflicts are 60 years old or 
more.  Some  tensions  arise  here  and  there,  and  some 
new challenges suddenly appear in different regions of 
the  world.  All  of 
issues  need  appropriate 
attention  and  a  great  deal  of  responsibility  and 
dedication to the values of the Organization.  

Many of us would recognize that the Council has 
shown  great  effectiveness  regarding,  for  example, 
African  issues  and  conflicts,  but  it  has  remained 
paralyzed  by  an  array  of  mutually  exclusive  interests 
that  have  made  the Arab-Israeli  conflict  a  permanent, 
unsolved  issue  on  its  agenda.  It  remains  a  source  of 
great  frustration  and  disappointment  for  the  whole 
region that the Council has been unable to overcome its 
internal  differences  and  restricted  interests  to  increase 
its involvement in this issue and bring the required and 
very much needed boost to the whole peace process. 

The Council’s effectiveness is a common concern 
for  all  of  us.  It  is  the  responsibility  of  the  Member 
States to ensure that the Council is taking decisions and 
examining  the  issues  under  its  mandate  in  accordance 
with the Charter of the United Nations and in a manner 
that 
the 
maintenance of peace and security all over the world.  

My  delegation  believes  that  some  areas  require 
more  attention  and  efficiency  and  has  made  some 
comments  and  proposals  in  that  regard.  Those  areas 
should  not  overshadow  the  several  where  the  Council 
has  made  improvements.  The  interaction  between  the 
General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  requires 
yearly 
for 
improvement.  The  reporting  system  and  the  content 
discussed under today’s agenda item could certainly be 
very  helpful  in  reaching  that  goal  if  the  constructive 
proposals  and  recommendations  of  the  Member  States 
are taken into account forwarding the future. 

Mr.  Wenaweser  (Liechtenstein):  We  welcome 
this debate as a critical opportunity for communication 
between  the  Security  Council  and  the  Member  States. 
We  appreciate  the  efforts  made  by  the  delegation  of 
Germany in producing the annual report (A/66/2), and 
we  thank  the  representative  of  Portugal  for  presenting 
it to the Assembly this morning.  

As  a  member  of  the  group  of  five  small  nations 
(S-5), we align ourselves with the  statement delivered 
earlier today by the representative of Costa Rica. 
its  ultimate  goal,  which 
an  ongoing  quest 
evaluation 
satisfies 
and 
is 
22 

11-58372 



Our  point  of  departure  in  considering  the  annual 
report  is  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  which 
stipulates  that  the  Council  carries  out  its  work  on 
behalf  of  all  Member  States.  Given  the  absence  of 
other  opportunities,  this  debate  should  in  principle  be 
the best moment for a dialogue on the performance of 
the  Council  and  the  perception  of  it  by  the  wider 
membership.  

At the same time, the report in its current format 
and  the  way  in  which  this  debate  is  held  are  not 
conducive  to  a  genuine  dialogue. That  is  why  the  S-5 
group  has  made  suggestions  to  improve  both  the 
process  of  preparing  and  then  discussing  the  report, 
and we have engaged with Council members that have 
a special role to play in this respect. We are of course 
aware  of  the  limitations  of  this  exercise  and  of  the 
difficult discussions within the Council itself about the 
adoption of the report. We view our efforts during the 
past  year  as  a  work  in  progress  and  will  think  of 
options for the future. Those include the possibility not 
only  of  discussing  the  report  in  other,  more  informal, 
formats  but  also  of  having  an  additional  basis  for 
discussing  its  work,  since  the  self-assessment  of  any 
international  body  will 
limited 
undertaking. We look forward to continued support and 
interest from  Council members in this  respect. On the 
actual content of the report, we would like to offer the 
following comments. 

Of particular interest to us, obviously, is the way 
in  which  the  report  deals  with  the  issue  of  working 
methods. The report is the perfect place for the Council 
to report on developments in that area, to illustrate its 
ownership  of  the  issue  and  to  create  a  record  on  that 
subject. But the report only mentions that the Council 
made  its  debate  and  consultations  more  interactive  — 
which  we  welcome.  There  is  also  a  rather  cryptic 
statement  that  the  Council  aimed  at  increasing  the 
transparency of its work — indeed a key concern of the 
S-5 — without, however, further elaborating on it. We 
are  left  wondering  whether  there  are  other  measures 
that  were  taken,  but  not  reflected  in  the  report  —  a 
rather  curious  state  of  affairs  in  an  exercise  aimed  at 
transparency.  
We  see  no  indication  of  results  emanating  from 

the  Informal  Working  Group  on  Documentation  and 
Other  Procedural  Questions, 
just  a  very  generic 
statement  on  the  role  that  presidential  note  507 
(S/2010/507)  plays  in  the  practice  of  the  Council.  In 
particular,  there  is  no  reference  to  efforts  by  the 
always  be 
a 
A/66/PV.50
conceptual  debates,  which 
Council to engage in systematic implementation in that 
respect. 

We continue to miss a systematic effort to link up 
the  thematic  discussions  with  the  consideration  of 
country  situations  in  the  Council.  That  seems  indeed 
part  of  a  problem  that  goes  far  beyond  the  actual 
format of the report. Thematic discussions are, for the 
most part, dealt with as stand-alone topics, rather than 
as 
should  provide 
substantive  and  essential  input  for  the  Council’s  work 
on country situations. 

Finally,  like  others,  we  believe  that  a  more 
accurate  record  should  be  established  by  having  those 
discussions  on  which  the  Council  did  in  the  end  not 
find  agreement  reported  on  in  a  very  factual  manner. 
That could easily be done by giving equal weight to all 
the opinions expressed, without any judgment attached 
to  them. We  understand  that  this  was  discussed  in  the 
process of drafting the report. We hope that this effort 
can be successful in the preparation of the next report. 

On the substance of the work of the Council, we 
certainly congratulate the Council for its work done in 
connection  with  the  situation  in  South  Sudan.  The 
successful holding of a referendum and the subsequent 
admission  of  that  new  country  as  a  Member  of  the 
United Nations illustrate how effective the Council can 
be  when  it  is  unified  in  its  approach,  even  in  very 
complex situations. 
We  also  commend  the  Council  for  it  unanimous 

the 
decision 
is  a  strong 
International  Criminal  Court.  That 
expression  of 
to  fight 
impunity, if indeed it is followed up by concrete action 
to give the necessary diplomatic support to the Court in 
carrying out its work. In this respect, a more systematic 
and  more  comprehensive  discussion  of  the  Council’s 
practice  vis-à-vis  the  Court  will  be  necessary  in  the 
future  in  order  to  generate  ownership  within  the 
Council  of  referrals  to 
the  Court.  The  financial 
implications  are  only  one,  albeit  important,  aspect  of 
this discussion. 

Thirdly,  we  welcome  the  continued  progress 
made  in  the  Council’s  practice  with  respect  to  the 
sanctions regime established in resolution 1267 (1999), 
especially  the  work  done  by  Ombudsperson  Kimberly 
Prost.  Late  as  those  measures  have  come,  they  are 
certainly  essential  to  putting  the  Council’s  action  on 
the right track and to preventing lasting damage to its 
the  Council’s  willingness 
the  situation 
to  refer 
in  Libya 
to 
11-58372 

23 

A/66/PV.50 

record  with  respect  to  the  observance  of  established 
international standards of due process. 

While  the  Council  reacted  quickly  to  authorize 
the use of force in Libya, it has proven deadlocked on 
far  less  dramatic  decisions,  in  particular  on  the 
situation  in  Syria,  which  is  reflected  under  “other 
matters”  in  the  report.  In  this  respect  we  note  in 
particular that two vetoes were cast in connection with 
a  situation  where  the  High  Commissioner  for  Human 
Rights had indicated the need for an investigation into 
serious  allegations  of  crimes  against  humanity.  That 
reaffirms  our  belief,  reflected  in  the  S-5  papers,  that 
rules  governing  the  use  of  the  veto  would  be  of  the 
essence.  We  also  deplore  the  use  of  the  veto  in 
connection  with  a  resolution  on  Israeli  settlement 
policy, which ran clearly counter to the stated views of 
a vast majority of the United Nations membership. 
Mr. Tarar (Pakistan): We thank you, Mr. President, 

for the initiative to hold separate debates on the report 
of  the  Security  Council  and  on  the  reform  of  the 
Council.  It  will  facilitate  fuller  consideration  of  each 
item. 
for 

presenting the Council’s report (A/66/2) to the General 
Assembly.  We 
the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Germany  for  important  work  on  the 
report  during  Germany’s  presidency  of  the  Security 
Council in July. The present report of the Council is an 
overview  of  its  work,  meetings,  correspondence  and 
decisions.  Like  earlier  ones,  the  report  is  an  annual 
compendium  of  all  deliberations 
the  Security 
Council. The  basic  merit  of  the  report  is  its  reference 
value  and  attention  to  detail.  While  it  may  not  rival 
international  bestsellers  in  readability,  its  importance 
for Governments, researchers, academia and interested 
members of the public is undeniable. 

Before discussing the report, I would like to refer 
to  resolution  65/315,  on  the  revitalization  of  the 
General Assembly,  which  welcomed  the  improvement 
in the quality of the annual report and encouraged the 
Security Council to make further efforts in that regard. 
We believe that the Security Council can lay down its 
own benchmarks for improvement in reporting by, inter 
alia,  describing  challenges,  assessing  actions  and 
analyzing  the  decision-making  processes.  That  will 
qualitatively 
future. 
Similarly,  the  Security  Council  should  also  submit 
the  presidency  of  Portugal 
commend 
improve 
reports 
thank 
also 
We 
the 
the 
in 
in 
special  reports  to  the  General Assembly,  as  enshrined 
in the United Nations Charter. 

The Charter requirement for the Security Council 
to  prepare  a  report  and  present  it  to  the  General 
Assembly has a lot of significance. In the discharge of 
its  duties  as  the  principal  organ  responsible  for  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security,  the 
Security Council acts on behalf of the States Members 
of  the  United  Nations.  By  presenting  the  report  to  the 
General Assembly, the Security Council offers its work 
for review by the entire membership. 

The responsiveness of the Security Council to the 
Member  States  can  be  measured  by  its  openness  and 
transparency. In this context, our delegation welcomes 
the  greater  number  of  public  meetings  and  open 
debates  held  during  the  reporting  period.  That  trend 
should  be  augmented  by  more  meaningful  exchange 
with  non-members,  especially  those  States  directly 
affected by a Council decision.  

Transparency  in  the  decision-making  process  is 
another  area  that  merits  close  attention.  It  is  a  widely 
held  view  that  decisions  are  taken  mostly  behind  the 
scenes  by  a  few  major  players.  Such  decisions, 
accordingly,  lack  transparency  and  inclusiveness.  The 
transparency of the Security Council is also related, to 
a large extent, to improvement in its working methods 
and  comprehensive  reform  of  the  Council  itself.  We 
will encourage introspection by the Council to improve 
its  working  methods,  in  the  spirit  of  its  presidential 
note contained in document S/2010/507. The inclusion 
of a chapter on working methods in the annual report is 
a step in the right direction. 

the  Security 
Council is an important element in reviewing its work. 
We believe that the Council has shown varying degrees 
of  effectiveness  at  different  stages  of  conflicts.  In 
terms  of  addressing  ongoing  conflict  situations,  the 
Council 
establishing 
peacekeeping  mandates  and  ensuring  that  they  are 
backed  by  timely  logistic  support.  In  this  context, 
determination  and  resolve  within  the  Council  have 
been  backed  up  by 
troop-contributing  countries’ 
commitments  and  an  efficient  Secretariat.  This 
triangular  relationship  should  be  acknowledged  and 
strengthened further. 
in  preventing 

The  Council’s 
its 
relapses 
increasing  reliance  on  integrated  mandates,  whereby 
is  also  growing  with 
the  effectiveness  of 
into  conflict 
effectiveness 
Evaluating 
effective 
been 
has 
in 
24 

11-58372 
The 
effectiveness 
Security  Council’s 


peacebuilding efforts are dovetailed with peacekeeping 
missions’  drawdown  and  exit  strategies.  The  gradual 
consolidation  of  the  United  Nations  peacebuilding 
architecture  has  equipped  the  Council  with  vital  tools 
for handling the challenges related to possible relapses 
into conflict. 

in 
preventing conflicts has elicited considerable criticism. 
We  see  no  change  in  this  perception.  Unresolved 
disputes breed discontent and any unforeseen spark can 
ignite violent conflict. This is particularly important in 
cases  of  inter-State  disputes.  Major  unresolved  issues, 
including the dispute concerning Jammu and Kashmir, 
have  been  awaiting  settlement  on  the  agenda  of  the 
Security Council for decades. Preventive strategies for 
addressing longstanding disputes should feature greater 
recourse  to  mediation  and  pacific  settlement  under 
Chapter  VI  of  the  Charter,  with  a  view  to  addressing 
the  root  causes  of  conflicts.  Greater  reliance  on 
preventive diplomacy on the part of the Council would 
augur well for international peace and security. 

Acting  on  behalf  of  the  States  Members  of  the 
United Nations, the Security Council is accountable to 
the  General  Assembly.  The  concept  of  accountability 
and  the  imperative  of  improving  the  relationship 
between 
the 
principles  underlying  Article  15,  paragraph  1,  of  the 
Charter. That  has  also  been  the  spirit  of  my  statement 
today. 
Mr.  Chipaziwa  (Zimbabwe):  Zimbabwe  welcomes 

the  opportunity  to  participate  in  the  debate  on  the 
report  of  the  Security  Council  (A/66/2).  I  join  other 
speakers  before  me  in  thanking  Ambassador  Moraes 
Cabral,  Permanent  Representative  of  Portugal  and 
President  of  the  Security  Council  for  November,  for 
presenting  to  the  General  Assembly  the  report  of  the 
Council for the period 1 August 2010 to 31 July 2011. 

The Security Council acts on behalf of the entire 
membership  as  the  primary  organ  responsible  for  the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security.  The 
General  Assembly  must  therefore  assess  whether  the 
Council has been effective in maintaining international 
peace  and  security  and  whether  it  has  reflected  the 
views and interests of the entire membership. 

The  Council  has  been  most  effective,  in  recent 
years,  in  addressing  internal  crises  and  conflicts, 
mostly  in  Africa.  Peacekeeping  has  been  utilized  to 
good use in several complex crises. But other situations 
the  Assembly  and 
the  Council  are 
A/66/PV.50
in 
provide 
integrity  of 
future  will 
have  been  grossly  neglected  for  years.  In  our  view, 
much  more  must  be  done  to  prevent  conflicts  from 
erupting in the first place, and to prevent relapses once 
a  situation  has  been  stabilized.  In  that  regard,  it  is 
important to address the underlying causes of conflicts 
and  to  more  proactively  pursue  a  comprehensive 
approach focusing on peacebuilding, peace sustenance 
and  development.  The  Council’s  actions  must  be 
conducted  with  full  respect  for  the  sovereignty  and 
territorial 
the  States  concerned.  No 
temporizing on this fundamental tenet will do, and no 
justification may be wantonly conjured up. 
The  ability  of  the  Council  to  act  effectively  and 

responsibly 
important 
reassurance  for  the  international  community  that  its 
concerns  in  the  area  of  security  are  being  adequately 
addressed.  This  not  only  calls  for  political  will  and 
unity  on  issues,  but  for  the  perception  that  the 
decisions  taken  by  the  Council  largely  reflect  the 
concerns and aspirations of the general membership. In 
our view, greater democratization of the existing order, 
particularly  as  reflected  in  a  reformed  membership  of 
the Council itself, increased transparency in action and 
the  coordination  of  different 
interest  and 
sensitivities,  are  essential  for 
to 
succeed. 

My  delegation  views  with  concern  the  Council’s 
tendency  to  take  decisions  on  issues  that  impinge  on 
the  wider  membership  of  the  United  Nations  without 
taking into account the views of the States concerned. 
We  call  on  the  Council  to  ensure  the  provision  of 
adequate  opportunity  for  the  views  of  the  wider 
membership  to  be  heard  on  important  issues  through 
transparent  mechanisms,  such  as  open  debates  of  the 
Council, before decisions on such issues are taken. We 
hold  the  view  that  the  Council  can  only  succeed  in 
implementing  its  actions  when  its  decisions  are  taken 
after a rigorous process of consultations with the wider 
membership. 
We are concerned that the Council is not dealing 

directly with some of the major conflicts and threats to 
international  peace  and  security.  The  implementation 
of some resolutions is actively pursued while others are 
ignored. There is inaction even in the face of the most 
obvious acts of aggression. On the other hand, there is 
proaction,  even  interference,  in  the  internal  affairs  of 
sovereign States, even where there is clearly no threat 
to  international  peace  and  security.  The  Council  must 
ideas, 
that  endeavour 
11-58372 

25 

settlement  of  disputes 
Moreover,  we  wonder  who  will  police 
A/66/PV.50 

never  allow  itself  to  be  swayed  by  the  particular 
interests of any of its members. 

We  are  of  the  view  that  the  provisions  for  the 
pacific 
remain  grossly 
underutilized  by  the  Security  Council.  In  contrast, 
there  is  a  dangerous  tendency  to  have  recourse,  too 
often  and  too  soon,  to  measures  under  Chapter VII  of 
the  Charter, 
including  sanctions  and  enforcement 
action,  even  on  matters  that  would  be  better  resolved 
through  multilateral  cooperation.  We  hope  that  the 
United Nations will not be put in a position of having 
to participate in precipitous interventions by misuse of 
the  concept  of  responsibility  to  protect.  We  urge  the 
Security  Council  not  to  abuse  the  notion  of  the 
responsibility  to  protect  in  order  to  interfere  in  the 
internal  affairs  of  sovereign  States.  The  limits  of  the 
use  of  force  have  been  fully  revealed  to  all  in  the 
recent past. 

the 
implementers  of  the  responsibility  to  protect  and  who 
will  protect  the  victims  or  answer  for  the  collateral 
damage that may arise from the implementation of this 
nascent principle. We call  on the Secretary-General to 
jealously protect the Charter of the United Nations and 
resist all attempts to abuse the Organization to promote 
the narrow goals of any Member or group of Members 
of the United Nations. 

We  reiterate  our  concern  over  the  Council’s 
encroachment on the mandates, powers and jurisdiction 
of the General Assembly and the Economic and Social 
Council  by  addressing  issues  that  fall  within  the 
competence of the latter organs. We are also concerned 
about the Council’s increased involvement in the areas 
of  norm-setting  and  establishing  definitions  that  fall 
within  the  purview  of  the  General  Assembly.  In  our 
view,  this  upsets  the  delicate  balance  envisaged  under 
the Charter and jeopardizes the overall effectiveness of 
the  United  Nations  system.  Such  a  consideration  of 
issues may, in fact, serve to exacerbate certain fraught 
situations. 

Chapter  VIII  of  the  Charter  envisages  situations 
where  the  Security  Council  makes  use  of  regional 
organizations for their proximity to and knowledge of a 
particular  conflict.  Regional  organizations  have 
become  important  components  in  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security,  as  they  are  better 
placed  to  deal  with  peace  and  security  challenges  in 
their  respective  regions.  For  the  effective  functioning 
that 
issues  under 
the  majority  of 
My  delegation  welcomes 
of  the  United  Nations  system,  it  is  important  that  the 
Organization  and  its  agencies  be  able  to  delegate 
responsibilities  and,  in  a  timely  fashion,  provide  the 
necessary  resources  where  required  in  support  of  the 
efforts  of  regional  organizations.  We  strongly  believe 
that regional organizations should be supported and not 
undermined or sidelined by the Security Council. 

It  is  our  inescapable  and  considered  conclusion 
that  the  true  effectiveness  of  the  Council  and  respect 
for its decisions can only be forthcoming if it is judged 
by  the  larger  membership  to  be  representative  of  all 
interests. A  look  at  the  items  on  the  Council’s  agenda 
reveals 
its 
consideration  pertain  to  the  developing  world,  and  in 
particular to Africa. Yet, Africa’s representation on the 
Council is a mere fifth of  the membership. We do not 
wish  it  upon  ourselves  to  believe  that  the  United 
Nations was established to discipline Africa. 

several  notable 
improvements in the working methods of the Council, 
including  meetings  with  troop-contributing  countries 
and regular briefings by envoys. No arm of the United 
Nations  can  function  well  under  a  cloak  of  suspicion. 
As the only legitimate source of the use of force on an 
international  scale,  the  Security  Council  needs  to 
cultivate respect and probity among all Members of the 
United  Nations.  It  must  not  be  seen  as  the  irresistible 
disciplinarian for any particular region of the world. 
Mr.  Beshta  (Ukraine):  At  the  outset,  let  me 

express  my  gratitude  to  the  President  of  the  Security 
Council  for  the  month  of  November,  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  Portugal,  for  his  presentation  of  the 
annual  report  of  the  Security  Council  to  the  General 
Assembly  (A/66/2).  We  also  appreciate  the  thrust  of 
Portugal’s  Security  Council  presidency  in  terms  of 
greater  transparency,  as  well  as  the  engagement  of 
non-members of this body. 

Received  wisdom  has  it  that  every  year  under 
review  by  the  Security  Council  is  more  challenging 
than  the  previous  one.  If  there  is  a  need  for  a  case 
study  to  test  this  trend,  the  period  covered  by  this 
year’s  report  is  right  to  the  point. There  was  hardly  a 
juncture over the past two decades that did not abound 
with  traditional,  new  and  emerging  challenges  to 
international 
or  with 
transformations  of  the  shifting  geopolitical  landscapes 
of  whole  regions.  While  it  is  rather  early  to  aim  at  a 
credible  assessment  of 
the  Security  Council’s 
peace 
and 
security, 
26 

11-58372 
in 
the 
lessons 
learned 
face  of 
the  Council’s  engagement 


performance 
those  challenges, 
particularly as some of them are still evolving, I would 
like  to  try  to  outline  at  least  some  preliminary 
conclusions  and  possible 
from 
Ukraine’s perspective. 
Clear  among  them,  in  our  view,  is  the  need  to 

enhance 
in  conflict 
prevention and mediation. My country considers those 
two  instruments  to  be  indispensable  items  in  the 
Security  Council’s  tool  kit. That  approach  was  one  of 
the main drivers of Ukraine’s term in the Council as an 
independent State, from 2000 to 2001. 

That  is  why  we  welcome  strengthening  the 
prognostic  component  of  the  Council’s  work.  In  this 
respect, a briefing on new challenges to security, to be 
held  later  this  month,  comes  to  mind.  We  also 
recognize  that  the  so-called  horizon-scanning  exercise 
is firmly back on the Council’s agenda. 
Yet,  my  delegation  is  not  sure  how  strongly  we 

can  justify  keeping  non-members  of  the  Council 
largely in the dark with respect to issues discussed with 
the  Department  of  Political Affairs  (DPA)  in  monthly 
consultations.  To  our  mind,  regular,  substantive  open 
updates by the Security Council presidencies would be 
equally  beneficial  to  Council  members  and  the  wider 
membership  of  the  United  Nations.  The  first  step  in 
that  direction  could  be  to  shed  some  light  on  the 
concept  of  DPA  monthly  briefings  mentioned  in  the 
introduction to the report. 

Ukraine welcomes an ever stronger thematic edge 
to  the  Council’s  agenda.  In  our  view,  that  tendency 
bodes  well  for  the  aim  of  ensuring  a  vibrant  and 
proactive  United  Nations  by  capturing 
the  most 
challenging  and  far-reaching  trends  in  international 
relations  and  bringing  them  to  the  Chamber  of  the 
Security Council. 

At  the  same  time,  one  has  to  be  cautious  not  to 
overburden  the  Security  Council  with  matters  of  a 
cross-cutting nature that ought to be tackled with added 
value in other United Nations forums, first of  all here 
in  the  General  Assembly.  In  that  regard,  the  main 
criteria  should  be  the  respective  prerogatives  and 
comparative advantages of the various  United Nations 
settings,  primarily  the  Security  Council  and  General 
Assembly. 

Let  me  briefly  touch  upon  two  general  issues 
where  the  leadership  of  the  Security  Council  could 
A/66/PV.50
the 
lack  of 
only  benefit  from  greater  involvement  by  the  wider 
United Nations membership. 

As  an  active  contributor  of  military  and  police 
personnel,  Ukraine  cannot  but  welcome  the  fact  that 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  continues 
to  figure 
prominently  on  the  Council’s  agenda.  In  that  context, 
thematic  open  debates  —  the  latest  on  peacekeeping 
having  been  held  in  August  under  India’s  presidency 
(see  S/PV.6603)  —  remain  crucial  for  sustaining 
positive  momentum.  We  also  take  positive  note  of 
some  fresh  practical  elements,  such  as  increased 
consultations  with  force  commanders  and  expanding 
the  use  of  videoconferencing,  which  allows  first-hand 
operational  information  to  be  received  in  a  more 
interactive real-time manner. 

Yet, there is still a lot of room for improvement. 
In that connection, I refer primarily to bridging the gap 
between  Security  Council  members  and  troop-  and 
police-contributing  countries  —  more  simply  put, 
between  the  architects  of  mandates  and  those  who 
implement  them.  During  a  debate  on  this  issue  in  the 
Fourth Committee a few weeks ago, some major police 
and troop contributors pointed to a number of instances 
of 
in  decision-making, 
especially  in  the  context  of  crisis  situations.  Our  own 
experience,  in  particular  in  reinforcing  the  United 
Nations Operation in Côte d’Ivoire, confirms that view. 
That  is  why  we  would  like  to  encourage  leading 
Council  delegations  from  relevant  countries  to  avoid 
situations  where  police  and  troop  contributors  are 
presented  with  a 
learning  about 
resolutions  that  direct  affect  their  personnel  or  assets 
on the very day of their adoption.  

in  examining  ways  of 
reviewing  the  practice  and  timing  of  decisions  that 
address  the  extension  of  mandates  of  peacekeeping 
operations, 
support 
mechanisms.  Taking  such  decisions  well  in  advance, 
whenever  feasible,  would  help 
troop  and  police 
contributors to bring new or extended mandates in line 
with  their  national  legislation,  thus  facilitating  timely 
deployments. 

My  delegation  would  like  to  encourage  greater 
coherence  and  openness  on  the  part  of  the  Council  in 
addressing  the  critical  issue  of  capability  gaps  in 
United Nations peacekeeping operations. In particular, 
the Council’s expert-level meetings with the Secretariat 
to  address  the  shortage  of  major  enablers  could  have 
We  also  see  merit 
fait  accompli, 
inter-mission 
transparency 
including 
11-58372 

27 

A/66/PV.50 

greater  practical  impact  if  they  involved  the  very 
contributors of those assets. 

Turning to peacebuilding, we are pleased with the 
closer  cooperation  between  the  Security  Council  and 
the Peacebuilding Commission. The Council is steadily 
making  greater  use  of  the  unique  experience  and 
advantages of the Peacebuilding Commission country-
specific  configurations.  The  first-ever  joint  statement 
to  the  Council  by  the  Commission  Chairs  is  one  such 
example.  As  a  member  of 
the  Peacebuilding 
Commission  Organizational  Committee  and  one  of  its 
current  Vice-Chairs,  Ukraine  supports  all  initiatives 
aimed  at  furthering  that  synergy. An  example  of  such 
initiatives  is  the  idea  of  having  Commission  Chairs 
participate in the Council’s working groups, such as the 
Working  Groups  on  Peacekeeping  Operations  or  on 
Children and Armed Conflict, when a specific country 
is concerned.  

Much of what has been achieved by the Security 
Council  can  be  attributed  to  the  input  of  its  rotating 
members.  We  are  strongly  in  favour  of  investigating 
and formalizing the most effective ways of channelling 
and  maximizing  the  benefit  from  the  contribution  of 
non-permanent members. My delegation welcomes the 
newly  elected  members  of  the  Council  and  looks 
forward to progress in that important area. 

Ukraine has always been an advocate of a strong 
United  Nations,  with  the  Security  Council  as  its 
principal 
primary 
responsibility  for  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace and security. That commitment will further guide 
my country’s activity in the United Nations, including 
the  possibility  of  our  election  to  the  Security  Council 
for the period 2016-2017. 
Mr.  Chua  (Singapore):  My  delegation  joins 

today’s  debate  with  mixed  feelings.  We  see  some 
encouraging steps in some areas. For instance, we find 
it  useful  to  separate  discussions  on  the  Security 
Council’s  annual  report  from  those  on  Council  reform 
in  general,  including  its  working  methods.  We  thank 
Portugal for that initiative. 

However,  the  proof  of  the  pudding  is  in  the 
eating.  While  this  year’s  pudding  is  not  completely 
inedible,  it  remains  disappointingly  bland.  Much  has 
been  said  about  how  the  Council’s  report  could  be 
more analytical. It should be more than just a laundry 
list of what statements were issued and when decisions 
were made. The hows and whys are also important. We 
entrusted  with 
organ, 
the 
that 
It  was  unfortunate 
understand  the  practical  concerns  of  going  into  detail 
on Council dynamics and individual Council members’ 
positions. But that does not preclude the Council from 
making  an  effort  to  help  Member  States  understand 
how decisions were made and the process by which the 
Council  reached  its  conclusions.  We  could  start  with 
more analytical monthly assessments by the respective 
Council  presidencies.  Progress  in  this  area  would  do 
much  to  improve  transparency.  It  would  also  increase 
accountability  for  the  vast  resources  channelled  to  the 
Council and aid digestion of the Council’s decisions. 

there  were  missed 
opportunities  for  regular  dialogue  with  the  wider 
membership  during  the  preparation  of  the  current 
report (A/66/2). We thank Germany for continuing the 
practice  of  informal  consultations  with  the  wider 
United  Nations  membership  before  the  drafting  of  the 
report, but we reiterate that it would be useful to also 
hold  such  consultations  on  the  completed  draft  before 
its  adoption.  That  would  help  the  Council  to  take 
account  of  Member  States’  views  when  finalizing  the 
report.  Sustained  and  candid  interaction  between  the 
Council members and other Member States would have 
helped  to  sharpen  the  focus  of  deliberations,  bring 
clarity  to  many  of  the  issues  at  hand  and  build  trust 
between the Council and the General Assembly. 

Nevertheless,  the  report  before  us  is  not  without 
merits.  We  appreciate  efforts  to  improve  its  content, 
such  as  the  highlighting  of  priority  issues  and  the 
giving  of  a  sense  of  the  Council’s  next  steps.  We  are 
also  encouraged  by  the  inclusion  of  two  paragraphs 
devoted  to  specific  measures  the  Council  has  taken  to 
improve its working methods. 

the 
the  other  hand, 
implementation  of  presidential  note  507  (S/2010/507) 
could have featured more detailed analysis of what has 
been achieved and what more needs to be done, rather 
than restating or paraphrasing what was already said in 
the introduction. It would also have been useful if the 
section on the annual report had included some insights 
into how the report had been prepared and improved, in 
view of previous suggestions from Member States. The 
chapter on the work of the Informal Working Group on 
Documentation and Other Procedural Questions simply 
lists the Group’s main activities, without going into its 
deliberations  or  conclusions.  Given  that  the  Group 
plays  a  key  role  in  the  improvement  of  the  Council’s 
working  methods,  we  would  welcome  a  more 
substantive and analytical account of its work. It might 
section  on 
the 
On 
28 

11-58372 


also  be  useful  to  consider  involving  the  Group  in  the 
preparation of the annual report, since the report is one 
of  the  primary  tools  for  documenting  the  work  of  the 
Council. That would certainly bring greater  continuity 
to the annual reports, which would otherwise vary from 
year to year. 

We  urge  the  Council  to  continue  striving  to 
improve the annual report and reiterate our belief in the 
need to take a less somnambulant approach to change. 
It is all very well to speak of improving transparency, 
increasing  accountability  and  building  trust  through 
interactive  partnership.  But  fine  principles  must  be 
translated into concrete action, and the annual report is 
a good place to begin. As I said at the beginning of my 
statement, the proof of the pudding is in the eating. In  

A/66/PV.50
The President: We have heard the last speaker in 
New York,  it  is  not  uncommon  to  have  an  overhyped 
and overpriced meal. One hopes that the next Council 
report will not follow that local example.  

the debate on this item. 

May  I  take  it  that  the  General  Assembly  takes 
note of the report of the Security Council contained in 
document A/66/2? 
It was so decided. 

The  President:  The  General  Assembly  has  thus 

concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 
30. 

  The meeting rose at 1.10 p.m. 
11-58372 

29 
