United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
36th plenary meeting
Tuesday, 13 November 2012, 3 p.m.
New York
A/67/PV.36
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Serbia)
the  absence  of 
In 
(Afghanistan), Vice-President, took the Chair.
the  President,  Mr.  Tanin 
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 41 (continued)
Necessity of ending the economic, commercial and 
financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America against Cuba
Report of the Secretary-General (A/67/118)
The  Acting  President:  Before  giving  the  f loor 
to  speakers  in  explanation  of  vote,  may  I  remind 
delegations  that  explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to  10 
minutes and should be made by delegations from their 
seats.
Ms. Joseph (Saint Lucia): Saint Lucia aligns itself 
with  the  statements  made  at  the  35th  meeting  by  the 
representatives  of  Algeria  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of 
77  and  China,  the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  on  behalf 
of  the  Movement  of  Non-Aligned  Countries,  Chile 
on  behalf  of  the  Community  of  Latin  American  and 
Caribbean  States,  and  Barbados  on  behalf  of  the 
Caribbean  Community.  We  are  pleased  to  have  joined 
the overwhelming majority of Member States by voting 
in  favour  of  the  resolution  to  end  the  embargo  against 
Cuba  (resolution  67/4).  Saint  Lucia  has  consistently 
expressed its concern that such unilateral measures run 
counter to international law, the sovereignty of nations, 
free trade and the principles embodied in the Charter of 
the United Nations.
As  a  member  of  the  Caribbean  community,  Saint 
Lucia  has  cooperated  with  Cuba  in  furtherance  of 
the  economic,  social  and  educational  advancement  of 
the  people  of  our  region.  Cuba  continues  to  provide 
numerous scholarships for students in our region, who 
are  studying  various  disciplines  and  will  return  to 
their  homelands  with  much-needed  skills  to  foster  the 
development process.
Cuba’s  contribution  in  providing  health  care  in 
underserved  parts  of  the  world  is  legendary.  The 
training  of  doctors  from  developing  countries  also 
serves to help improve the overall health of the people 
of those countries. The embargo on Cuba only impedes 
those efforts. It is unhelpful as well as an anachronism 
in the twenty-first century. 
Mr.  Cancela  (Uruguay)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  As  in 
previous  years,  Uruguay  voted  in  favour  of  resolution 
67/4, introduced by the Cuban delegation, in the belief 
that  the  embargo  against  that  country  runs  counter 
to  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  and  violates  the  rules  of  international 
law, particularly the standards regulating international 
trade, which are binding on the members of the World 
Trade Organization.
Uruguay’s  position  is  in  line  with  the  broadest 
contextual definition of multilateralism, non-intervention 
and the peaceful settlement of disputes, all fundamental 
principles  of  our  diplomacy.  The  situation  also  has  an 
impact  on  another  fundamental  principle,  that  of  the 
equality of States before the law. It is precisely because 
of that principle that our country rejects any unilateral 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-58855 (E)
*1258855*
A/67/PV.36
or  extraterritorial  coercive  measure  that  contravenes 
the rules of international law and the principles of the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  of  which  the  clearest 
current example is the unjust embargo imposed on the 
Republic of Cuba.
neighbours”. In the same vein, the blockade policy does 
not  foster  the  practice  of  tolerance  or  enhance  peace 
between  Cuba  and  the  United  States  so  that  they  may 
live as good neighbours, since it undermines that spirit 
of good-neighbourliness.
On  various  occasions  —  and  I  will  reiterate  it  on 
this  occasion —  the  Eastern  Republic  of  Uruguay  has 
stated its opposition to the economic, commercial and 
financial  blockade  of  Cuba,  with  its  severe  effect  on 
the  well-being  of  the  Cuban  people.  As  a  matter  of 
principle,  Uruguay  rejects,  and  does  not  recognize  in 
its national legislation, the extraterritorial enforcement 
of the domestic laws of other States. In that regard, we 
condemn the unilateral coercive measures imposed by 
the United States on Cuba, which are a form of pressure 
that  poses  an  obstacle  to  dialogue  and  to  the  essential 
rapprochement between the parties that we hope to see 
resumed.
In  voting  in  favour  of  the  resolution,  Uruguay 
reiterates  its  commitment  to  multilateralism  as  a 
legitimate  instrument  for  settling  disputes  between 
States  and  as  an  effective  approach  for  promoting 
international  cooperation,  human  rights,  security  and 
understanding between peoples.
Mr. Shaanika (Namibia): I would like first to join 
other  speakers  before  me  in  conveying  my  deepest 
sympathy  and  condolences  to  the  people  in  countries 
affected  by  Hurricane  Sandy,  particularly  the  people 
of our host city, New York. My delegation aligns itself 
with  the  statements  made  at  the  35th  meeting  by  the 
Permanent Representatives of Cape Verde, the Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  and  Algeria  on  behalf  of  the  African 
Group,  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and  the  Group  of 
77  and  China,  respectively.  I  would  like,  however,  to 
make some additional comments in explanation of our 
vote.
My  delegation  voted  in  favour  of  resolution  67/4 
on  the  necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial 
and financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America  on  Cuba,  because  we  believe  that  sovereign 
nations  should  live  in  peace  with  one  another  as  good 
neighbours  and  embrace  the  principle  of  open  trade 
without  any  threat  or  use  of  coercive  measures.  It  is 
clear that the imposition of the blockade against Cuba 
is a coercive tool that is inconsistent with the practice 
of  tolerance  and  that  it,  in  fact,  defies  the  promise 
enshrined  in  the  United  Nations  Charter  that  all 
Member  States  should  be  able  “to  practice  tolerance 
and  live  together  in  peace  with  one  another  as  good 
We  do  not  condone  the  use  of  coercive  measures 
as  a  tool  to  inf luence  the  policies  of  other  sovereign 
and peace-loving countries. For that and other reasons, 
Namibia  remains  concerned  about  the  promulgation 
and  application  of  laws  and  measures  that  constitute 
an  unjustifiable  economic,  commercial  or  financial 
blockade of any peaceful country. As we have observed 
today,  the  blockade  policy  has  been  overwhelmingly 
rejected by the States Members of the United Nations, 
because it not only inf licts pain on the people of Cuba, 
but also restricts their economic and social development.
Similarly,  the  blockade  policy  violates  the  basic 
human rights of the people of Cuba, because it causes 
irreparable  damage  to  their  economic,  social  and 
cultural way of life, key fundamentals to the pursuit of 
happiness.  Namibia  maintains  the  firm  belief  that  all 
human  rights,  be  they  political,  cultural  or  economic, 
are inseparable and therefore intertwined. Among those 
rights are the right to food, to better health, to education 
and the right of the people of any nation to develop their 
own  country  in  the  way  they  deem  fit.  The  blockade 
denies  the  people  of  Cuba  those  fundamental  human 
rights,  just  because  they  opted  to  pursue  a  different 
path to socioeconomic development.
Guided  by  our  conviction  and  conscience  that  the 
blockade against Cuba is a denial of the rights I have just 
highlighted, Namibia voted in favour of the resolution 
and will continue to do so until the blockade is finally 
lifted.  It  is  our  hope  that  the  United  States  will  heed 
the voice of the international community expressed so 
clearly and loudly here today.
Mr.  Khitchadeth 
(Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic): I would first like to extend a warm welcome 
to Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for Foreign 
Affairs of the Republic of Cuba, and to express to him 
my  delegation’s  full  support  and  solidarity.  I  would 
also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  extend  our  deep 
condolences  and  sympathy  to  the  Governments  and 
peoples  of  all  of  the  countries  affected  by  Hurricane 
Sandy  for  the  tragic  loss  of  life  and  devastation  it 
inf licted.
Let  me  begin  by  welcoming  the  report  submitted 
by the Secretary-General (A/67/118) under agenda item 
2 
12-58855
41.  My  delegation  wishes  to  associate  itself  with  the 
statements  made  by  the  Permanent  Representatives  of 
the  Islamic  Republic  of  Iran  and  Algeria  on  behalf  of 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and  the  Group  of  77  and 
China, respectively (see A/67/PV.35).
For more than four decades the innocent people of 
Cuba  have  continued  to  endure  the  misery  resulting 
from the economic, commercial and financial embargo 
imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America  on  their 
country.  The  embargo  has  also  impeded  their  efforts 
to  eliminate  poverty,  promote  economic  and  social 
development  and  attain  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals.  It  is  disappointing  to  witness  such  unilateral 
and  discriminatory  commercial  practices  lingering 
in  today’s  world  of  interdependence  and  multilateral 
cooperation  among  States.  The  blockade  violates 
international  law  and  is  against  the  purposes  and 
principles  of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  It  is 
a  transgression  of  the  right  of  a  sovereign  State  to 
peace,  development  and  security  and  is,  in  its  essence 
and  objectives,  an  act  of  unilateral  aggression  and  a 
permanent threat to a country’s stability.
In  accordance  with  the  relevant  resolutions  of 
the  General  Assembly,  a  Member  State  must  neither 
promulgate nor enforce any law, regulation or measure 
the  extraterritorial  effects  of  which  would  jeopardize 
the  sovereignty  of  other  Member  States,  since  every 
nation  has  the  sovereign  right  to  participate  freely  in 
the international financial and commercial systems.
Based  on  the  universal  principle  of  sovereign 
equality  under 
the  United  Nations  Charter  and 
international  law,  no  nation  has  the  right  to  interfere 
in the internal affairs of others, despite their different 
sociopolitical systems. As a sovereign and independent 
nation, the Republic of Cuba has the right to choose its 
own political system, as well as the path of development 
that is most relevant to its specific conditions.
Last  year,  186  Member  States  voted  in  favour 
of  resolution  66/6,  which  is  irrefutable  proof  that 
the  demand  for  the  lifting  of  the  blockade  has  the 
recognition  and  support  of  the  vast  majority  of  the 
international  community.  The  blockade  policy  is  also 
increasingly  rejected  both  within  the  United  States 
and by the international community. The United States 
must lift it immediately and unconditionally.
The  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic  joins  the 
majority  of  the  States  Member  of  the  United  Nations 
in  reaffirming  the  urgent  need  to  put  an  end  to  the 
A/67/PV.36
economic,  financial  and  commercial  embargo  against 
Cuba.  That  long-lasting  blockade  has  already  caused 
immeasurable  material  loss  and  economic  damage  to 
the Cuban people. As Members of the United Nations, 
we should do as much as we can to help Cuba to fully 
reclaim its legitimate right to integrate into the global 
economy.  In  that  spirit,  my  delegation  voted  in  favour 
of resolution 67/4. 
Ms.  Miguel  (Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines): 
Like the overwhelming majority of States, Saint Vincent 
and the Grenadines voted in favour of resolution 67/4. 
We  align  ourselves  fully  with  the  statements  made 
earlier  today  on  behalf  of  the  Caribbean  Community 
(CARICOM),  the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  the  Group 
of 77 and China and the Community of Latin American 
and Caribbean States.
We take the f loor at this time to re-emphasize our 
deeply  held  conviction  that  the  ongoing  embargo  is 
outmoded,  ineffective  and  illegal.  The  time  has  long 
since  passed  for  that  archaic  and  punitive  measure  to 
be  consigned  to  our  history  books  as  an  unfortunate 
remnant  of  a  bygone  era.  Previous  versions  of  the 
resolution  have  been 
the  past  20 
sessions  of  the  General  Assembly  and  have  enjoyed 
near-unanimous  support  for  years.  There  is  no  other 
example  of  the  international  community  speaking  so 
overwhelmingly  and  so  consistently.  However,  the 
embargo remains stubbornly in place, and its negative 
impacts have intensified, particularly in the wake of the 
ongoing global economic and financial crisis.
introduced 
in 
finds 
the  Grenadines 
Saint  Vincent  and 
it 
regrettable  that  a  number  of  vague  General  Assembly 
resolutions  on  various  topics  —  resolutions  that  have 
enjoyed less enthusiastic support than this one — have 
been  seized  upon  by  various  States  to  justify  extreme 
interventionist  actions.  In  contrast,  an  unambiguous 
expression  of  international  will  is  not  acted  upon. 
The  theories  and  explanations  for  the  continuing 
enforcement of the embargo — from legislative inertia 
to  the  shallow  political  considerations  of  marginal 
political constituencies — are insufficient to legitimize 
the  suffering  that  continues  to  be  visited  upon  the 
Cuban people.
No  country  represented  in  this  Hall  has  the  right 
to  tell  the  United  States  how  to  conduct  its  foreign 
policy, who its friends should be, or how to determine 
its national interests. Even if such a right existed, Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  would  not  presume  to 
12-58855
3
A/67/PV.36
exercise it against our cherished friend and neighbour to 
the north. But every country in this Hall is obligated by 
the United Nations Charter to oppose instances where 
national  foreign  policy  decisions  become  violations 
of  international  law  or  disregard  the  principles  of 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  in  particular  the 
principles  of  sovereign  equality  and  non-interference 
in the domestic affairs of States.
Furthermore,  in  an  era  of  economic  globalization 
and  international  diplomatic  engagement  across  the 
ideological  spectrum,  the  embargo  harkens  back  to 
an  isolationist,  confrontational  era  of  naval  blockades 
and  military  brinksmanship  that  have  no  place  in  our 
modern system of economic and political interaction.
Throughout its extended struggle with the effects of 
the embargo, Cuba has nonetheless remained a staunch 
and abiding partner in the development of our country, 
even  in  times  of  global  hardship.  Cuban  universities 
have  graduated  over  250  Vincentian  students  and  are 
currently  playing  host  to  150  more,  free  of  charge.  Its 
surgeons  have  performed  operations  on  over  3,000 
Vincentian  patients,  without  charging  them  a  penny. 
Its  doctors  have  brought  quality  medical  care  and 
expertise to the most remote areas of our country. Even 
as  we  speak,  Cuban  engineers,  architects  and  workers 
are labouring alongside Vincentians in the construction 
of a modern hospital and our first international airport. 
Our appreciation cannot be overstated.
Furthermore,  in  a  time  of  increasing  regional 
integration  and  interaction,  the  Cuban  economy  and 
its markets and resources are a valuable component of 
our  collective  Caribbean  development.  To  impede  the 
development  of  Cuba  through  illegal  extraterritorial 
measures  is  potentially  to  stunt  the  growth  of  Cuba’s 
Caribbean  neighbours.  As  we  all  grapple  with  the 
fallout of the global economic and financial crisis, the 
need  to  eliminate  such  developmental  impediments  is 
even more compelling.
None of the original architects of the embargo, nor 
the  political  principals  that  gave  rise  to  it,  remain  in 
office today. Indeed, the embargo has been in existence 
for  longer  than  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines  has 
been  an  independent  nation  and  predates  the  United 
Nations  membership  of  every  CARICOM  State,  with 
the exception of Haiti.
Let us not allow political cowardice or ideological 
straitjackets  to  perpetuate  the  continuation  of  the 
unjust  and  harmful  embargo.  We  continue  to  hope 
for  an  evolution  in  the  thinking  and  actions  of  our 
friends  in  the  United  States  on  the  matter,  and  we 
remain unequivocal in our call for the removal of that 
developmental constraint on our Caribbean neighbour.
Mr. Sin Son Ho (Democratic People’s Republic of 
Korea): Allow me first to warmly welcome Mr. Bruno 
Rodríguez Parrilla, Minister for Foreign Affairs of the 
Republic of Cuba, and acknowledge his presence in this 
important place on this particular occasion.
Allow  me  also  to  sincerely  congratulate  Cuba  for 
the  absolute  majority  support  received  this  morning 
from  the  States  Members  of  the  United  Nations  (see 
A/67/PV.35). My delegation fully associates itself with 
the  statements  made  by  the  representatives  of  Algeria 
and  Iran  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  77  and  China  and 
the  Non-Aligned  Movement,  respectively,  as  well  as 
those by other regional groups and speakers before my 
delegation.
Twenty-one  years  have  passed  since  the  General 
Assembly first began deliberating today’s agenda item 
at  its  forty-sixth  session.  As  all  of  us  are  very  well 
aware,  the  United  States  has  been  enforcing  the  full-
scale blockade against Cuba for more than 50 years for 
the purpose of overthrowing the Government of Cuba, 
which  has  caused  enormous  damage  to  the  economic 
development  and  welfare  of  the  Cuban  people.  The 
Cuban  Government  estimates  that  its  people  have 
suffered over $1 trillion in damages under the blockade. 
The 1996 Helms-Burton Act extending the embargo 
to reach third countries trading with Cuba escalated the 
unilateral arbitrariness of the United States. The United 
States  embargo  against  Cuba  is  a  serious  violation  of 
the principles of self-determination, sovereign equality, 
non-interference  in  internal  affairs  and  free  trade 
stipulated  in  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  The 
extrajudicial,  unilateral  coercive  measures  seeking  to 
change  the  political,  economic  and  social  systems  of 
other countries based on the values of a specific country 
can never be justified in any case. 
The  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea 
consistently  opposes  all  forms  of  intervention  and 
sanctions  against  sovereign  States.  The  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  delegation  voted  this 
morning 
resolution  67/4,  entitled 
“Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of 
America against Cuba”, and strongly urges the United 
States to immediately lift the embargo against Cuba, in 
favour  of 
in 
4 
12-58855
conformity with the will of the overwhelming majority 
of the States Members of the United Nations.
The  Government  of 
the  Democratic  People’s 
Republic  of  Korea  reiterates  its  firm  support  for  and 
solidarity  with  the  righteous  cause  of  the  Cuban 
Government  and  people  to  safeguard  their  national 
sovereignty.
Mr.  Lazarev  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian):  The 
delegation  of  the  Republic  of  Belarus  would  like  to 
welcome  the  presence  of  the  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs of Cuba, Mr. Bruno Rodríguez Parrilla, to our 
debate today. 
We align ourselves with the statement delivered by 
the representative of Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned 
Movement (NAM) at the 35th meeting. 
Today the General Assembly has once again adopted 
a  resolution  (resolution  67/4)  entitled  “Necessity 
of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba”. Once again, the vast majority of Member 
States supported the resolution urging the United States 
to  end  the  blockade.  We  would  hope  that  the  United 
States,  which  counts  itself  among  the  civilized  States, 
will  finally  understand  the  irrationality  and  short-
sightedness of the pressure it has continued to exert for 
more than half a century on Cuba.
Belarus 
rejects 
and 
sanctions 
unilateral 
enforcement  measures.  Such  measures  contravene 
the  Charter  and  the  principles  of  international  law. 
Unilateral  enforcement  measures  are  a  f lagrant  and 
massive  extraterritorial  violation  of  the  human  rights 
of  the  citizens  of  the  countries  against  whom  they are 
introduced.
Belarus,  as  a  State  that  has  itself  experienced 
unilateral  enforcement  sanctions,  has  on  many 
occasions  indicated  the  need  for  more  active  steps  by 
the  Secretary-General  and  the  High  Commissioner 
for  Human  Rights  aimed  at  persuading  the  United 
States  and  other  countries  to  refrain  from  the  wanton 
and  crude  tactic  of  applying  political  and  economic 
pressure  on  sovereign  States.  It  is  for  that  reason  that 
Belarus is calling for the establishment of the post of a 
special rapporteur to the Human Rights Council on the 
unacceptability  of  resorting  to  unilateral  enforcement 
measures.  That  idea  was  supported  at  the  recent 
sixteenth NAM Summit.
A/67/PV.36
Belarus states here in the General Assembly, with 
a  full  sense  of  responsibility,  that  it  is  impossible  to 
bend  a  sovereign  State  to  one’s  will  by  blackmail, 
intimidation, threats or political and economic pressure. 
We  therefore  voted  in  favour  of  the  resolution.  We 
sincerely hope that the resolution and the appeal by the 
international community will be heeded by the United 
States and other States applying unilateral enforcement 
measures.
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke 
in  Arabic):  I  would  like  to  begin  by  expressing  my 
country’s  support  for  the  statements  delivered  at  the 
35th  meeting  by  the  representatives  of  Algeria,  on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China, and Iran, on behalf 
of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  (NAM),  respectively.  I 
would  like  to  welcome  Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba, and to assure him 
and his friendly country of our full support.
The principles of sovereign equality among States 
and  non-interference  in  their  internal  affairs  are  the 
main  foundations  on  which  international  law  is  built. 
For that very reason, the Charter of the United Nations 
and 
the  Organization’s  decisions  and  resolutions 
have  stressed,  since  its  creation,  the  sanctity  of  those 
principles  and  the  need  for  all  Member  States  of  the 
United Nations to respect them.
Since  the  unilateral  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United  States  against  Cuba  and  the  measures  taken 
to  tightly  enforce  it  run  counter  to  the  Charter  of  the 
United  Nations  and  the  principles  of  international 
law  governing  relations  among  States,  human  rights, 
international  humanitarian 
the  rules  of 
international  trade,  the  embargo  is  de  facto  illegal, 
inhumane and incompatible with the standards set forth 
by the international community as the basis of relations 
among  States.  It  also  represents  an  unprecedented 
challenge to international law and to the credibility of 
the legality of unilateral American policies.
law  and 
The  embargo  that  has  been  in  force  against  Cuba 
for more than 50 years has created a precedent that has 
been  rejected  as  unilateral  by  States,  as  it  lies  outside 
the  bounds  of  international  law.  It  is  also  a  cause  of 
embarrassment  for  the  United  Nations.  Moreover,  the 
embargo has subjected Cuba to all forms of economic, 
political and social harm. It has entrenched the suffering 
of  the  Cuban  people  and  put  the  United  States  in  an 
embarrassingly  direct  opposition  to  the  unanimous 
international  opposition  to  the  embargo.  It  has  led  to 
financial losses totalling $1 trillion.
12-58855
5
A/67/PV.36
The General Assembly has been discussing the item 
for over 20 consecutive years. It has adopted resolutions 
that  have  enjoyed  overwhelming  majority  support. 
Many  specialized  political  and  regional  organizations 
and agencies have adopted similar decisions. However, 
and  regrettably,  the  economic,  financial  and  trade 
embargo imposed on Cuba is still in effect as if nothing 
had happened. The fact that 188 States voted in favour of 
resolution 67/4 at the current session in itself confirms 
once again that Member States unanimously recognize 
the  illegitimacy  of  the  embargo  imposed  on  Cuba  and 
call for an end to it. 
The Syrian Arab Republic confirms that unilateral 
economic  measures,  which  have  been  imposed  by  the 
United  States,  the  European  Union  and  other  States, 
represent  a  f lagrant  violation  of  the  principles  of 
international  law.  They  are  a  hegemonic  tool  of  the 
West,  which  is  suffering  from  a  superiority  complex 
with  regard  to  other  countries  and  peoples;  that  tool 
serves  only  for  oppression  and  economic  and  political 
coercion.  Such  measures  aim  at  inf luencing  the 
independence  of  national  political  decisions  and  at 
interfering in the internal affairs of Member States in a 
way that runs counter to the provisions of the Charter. 
It  is  also  a  manifestation  of  a  policy  of  collective 
punishment that those States pursue. 
Such  illegitimate  and  unjust  measures  can  only 
foment negative feelings towards the West. The majority 
of  such  measures  have  been  imposed  by  Western 
States,  particularly  the  United  States  of  America  and 
the States of the European Union. Such measures aim at 
weakening  the  Governments  of  other  States  Members 
of  the  United  Nations  or  at  bringing  pressure  to  bear 
on those Governments in order to force them to change 
their national policies. 
My country would like to reiterate its condemnation 
of  the  sanctions  imposed  by  the  United  States,  the 
European Union and other States. We wish to stress the 
toll and adverse effects that such illegitimate unilateral 
measures  have  taken  on  the  life  and  prosperity  of  the 
Syrian  people.  Those  unilateral  illegitimate  measures 
prevent Syrians from meeting their basic needs, in terms 
of  access  to  medications,  food,  medical  equipment, 
gas  for  household  use,  fuel  for  heating,  agricultural 
needs,  civil  aviation 
transportation  services  and 
communications equipment. 
In  that  context,  we  recall  that  the  imposition  of 
coercive unilateral measures is a violation of the relevant 
General  Assembly  resolutions,  including  resolution 
66/186,  entitled  “Unilateral  economic  measures  as 
a  means  of  political  and  economic  coercion  against 
developing  countries”,  and  resolution  66/156,  entitled 
“Human  rights  and  unilateral  coercive  measures”,  in 
which the General Assembly stressed its condemnation 
and  rejection  of  unilateral  economic  measures,  as  it 
considered  such  measures  to  be  an  impediment  to 
healthy trade relations among States and an obstruction 
to  the  full  realization  of  the  rights  provided  for  in  the 
Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  and  other 
international human rights instruments. In that context, 
I would mention the right of individuals and peoples to 
development. 
Such measures prevent the enjoyment by each and 
every  individual  of  a  living  standard  that  guarantees 
the  rights  to  health,  prosperity  and  access  to  food, 
medical  treatment,  education  and  the  necessary  social 
services. The United Nations Conference on Trade and 
Development  has  already  stressed  that  the  unilateral 
sanctions  imposed  on  my  country,  Syria,  have  had  a 
major  impact  on  trade  revenues,  foreign  exchange, 
shrinking productivity and work opportunities, and the 
deterioration  of  the  economic  and  social  prosperity  of 
the  population,  particularly  among  middle-  and  low-
income  groups.  We  then  see  the  parties  that  impose 
unilateral coercive measures on my people talking about 
how keen they are to protect human rights in Syria. He 
who commits arson cannot also be a firefighter; that is 
an act of political hypocrisy that must be rejected. 
is  called  upon 
In  accordance  with  its  mandate,  the  General 
the  necessary 
Assembly 
measures  to  put  an  end  to  the  unilateral,  unjust  and 
hostile  embargoes  and  economic  sanctions  policies 
that  are  being  pursued  by  some  States  in  violation  of 
international law. 
to 
take 
It  is  disadvantageous  and  injurious  to  the  United 
States that Israel was one of only three States that voted 
against  resolution  67/4.  The  overwhelming  majority 
of  Member  States  voted  in  favour.  In  that  regard,  my 
delegation  would  hope  that  all  forms  of  embargo  and 
unilateral  sanctions  imposed  by  the  United  States  on 
Cuba  and  many  other  States,  including  my  country, 
Syria,  will  be  brought  to  an  end.  My  country  also 
hopes  that  the  Israeli  embargo  and  siege  imposed  on 
the  Palestinian  people  will  be  lifted  as  well.  We  hope 
that the voice of the international community expressed 
by  the  General  Assembly  and  other  international 
institutions and organizations will be respected by the 
6 
12-58855
United States of America and fully taken into account 
by its legislative institutions. 
Some  have,  in  fact,  felt  optimistic  about  the  fact 
that the America president was re-elected for a second 
term and that United States intervention in the internal 
affairs  of  States  might  now  abate.  In  the  light  of  the 
foregoing,  my  country  voted  in  favour  of  resolution 
67/4.
The  Acting  President:  I  would  like  to  remind 
delegations  that  explanations  of  vote  are  limited  to  10 
minutes.
Mr. Emiliou (Cyprus): I have the honour to speak 
on  behalf  of  the  European  Union  (EU).  The  acceding 
country  Croatia;  the  candidate  countries  the  former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro, Iceland 
and  Serbia;  the  countries  of  the  Stabilization  and 
Association  Process  and  potential  candidates  Albania 
and Bosnia and Herzegovina; as well as the Republic of 
Moldova, align themselves with this statement. 
The  United  States  trade  policy  towards  Cuba  is 
fundamentally  a  bilateral  issue.  However,  American 
legislation such as the Cuban Democracy Act of 1992 and 
the Helms-Burton Act of 1996 has extended the effects 
of  the  United  States  embargo  to  third-party  countries. 
In the framework of the common commercial policy, the 
European Union has firmly and continuously opposed 
such extraterritorial measures. While we acknowledge 
the  decision  by  the  United  States  Government  to  lift 
restrictions  on  remittances  and  family  travel  to  Cuba, 
we  cannot  accept  that  unilaterally  imposed  measures 
could  impede  our  economic  and  commercial  relations 
with Cuba. 
To  address  the  problem,  in  November  1996,  the 
European  Union  Council  of  Ministers  adopted  a 
regulation and a joint action to protect the interests of 
natural  legal  persons  residing  in  Europe  against  the 
consequences of the aforementioned Acts. Furthermore, 
at  the  summit  between  the  European  Union  and  the 
United  States  held  in  London  in  May  1998,  a  package 
was  agreed  that  also  sought  to  alleviate  the  problems 
caused  by  extraterritorial 
legislation.  It  covered 
waivers  to  Titles  III  and  IV  of  the  Helms-Burton  Act, 
a  commitment  by  the  United  States  Government  to 
resist future extraterritorial legislation of that kind, and 
an  understanding  regarding  discipline  to  strengthen 
investment protection. It is urgent that the United States 
implement that agreement.
A/67/PV.36
The  European  Union’s  policy  towards  Cuba  was 
set  out  in  a  Common  Position  in  1996.  Reaffirming 
the validity of that Common Position, in June 2008 the 
European Union lifted the restrictive measures imposed 
on  Cuba  in  2003.  The  dialogue  with  the  authorities  in 
Havana  was  resumed  without  preconditions  and  on 
a  basis  of  reciprocity  and  non-discrimination.  Five 
ministerial  sessions  of  political  dialogue  have  been 
held with the Cuban Government, addressing issues of 
common  interest,  including  human  rights,  which  is  a 
question at the core of relations with all third countries, 
including  Cuba.  We  reaffirm  our  determination  to 
pursue a comprehensive results-oriented dialogue with 
the Cuban authorities, as well as with representatives of 
civil society and the peaceful pro-democracy opposition, 
in accordance with EU policies. We reiterate the right 
of Cuban citizens to decide their future independently.
We are encouraged by the release of all the political 
prisoners  from  the  group  of  75  imprisoned  in  2003, 
together with other political prisoners. We reiterate our 
call on the Cuban Government to grant its citizens full, 
internationally recognized civil, political and economic 
rights and freedoms, including the freedoms of assembly 
and expression and free access to information; to ratify 
the  United  Nations  International  Covenants  on  Civil 
and  Political  Rights  and  on  Economic,  Social,  and 
Cultural  Rights  and,  following  the  visit  of  the  United 
Nations  Special  Rapporteur  on  the  right  to  food,  to 
extend invitations to other rapporteurs to visit Cuba.
Cuba’s 
rights  and 
restrictions  on 
freedoms 
undermine and offset its achievements in health care and 
education. Similarly, Cuba’s domestic economic policy 
seriously  hampers  its  own  economic  development. 
In  that  context,  we  note  the  adoption  by  the  Cuban 
Parliament  in  August  2011  of  a  package  of  economic 
and social reforms, and we expect them to be extended 
and  implemented  in  a  manner  that  will  address  the 
key concerns of the Cuban population. The economic, 
commercial,  and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the 
United States contributes to the economic problems in 
Cuba,  negatively  affecting  the  living  standards  of  the 
Cuban people. The lifting of the United States embargo 
would  facilitate  an  opening  up  of  Cuba’s  economy  to 
the  benefit  of  the  Cuban  people.  Together,  we  again 
express our rejection of all unilateral measures directed 
against  Cuba  that  are  contrary  to  commonly  accepted 
rules  of  international  trade.  We  urge  the  Cuban 
authorities to bring about real improvements in all the 
areas mentioned.
12-58855
7
A/67/PV.36
Despite 
their  continued  concerns  about  and 
criticisms  of  the  human  rights  situation  in  Cuba, 
the  member  States  of  the  European  Union  voted 
unanimously in favour of resolution 67/4.
Ms.  Nyamudeza  (Zimbabwe):  My  delegation 
associates  itself  with  the  statements  made  at  the  35th 
meeting by the representatives of Cape Verde, Algeria 
and  Iran  on  behalf  of  the  African  Group,  the  Group 
of  77  and  China  and  the  Non-Aligned  Movement, 
respectively. We  are  explaining  our  vote  on  resolution 
67/4  not  just  out  of  solidarity  with  the  people  of  the 
Republic of Cuba. We do it out of a sense of revulsion 
at the nature of the economic blockade, which is one of 
collective  punishment.  We  deplore  such  sanctions  for 
the  harm  they  do  to  the  people  of  Cuba  and  for  their 
illegal application under international law.
We  in  Zimbabwe  know  well  the  effect  of  such 
economic  punishment.  Our  country  is  enduring  an 
economic blockade of similar effect and consequences. 
Such  unilateral  measures  are  evil  in  their  nature;  in 
our  case,  they  are  based  on  the  racist  premise  that 
Africans  should  not  be  masters  of  their  economic 
potential and should not enjoy the benefits that accrue 
from their endowment of natural resources without the 
mediation — nay, blackmail — of erstwhile colonizers 
and their fellow travellers. That is as abhorrent to us as 
is the unacceptable situation in which Cuba has found 
itself for some five decades.
We hope that those who are imposing the economic 
blockade  on  Cuba  will  take  cognizance  of  the  global 
opposition to their behaviour and that they will relent. 
The  Cuban  people  should  be  left  alone  to  shape  their 
destiny without hindrance. We stand by them as does, 
clearly, a preponderant part of the world.
Mr.  Bart  (Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis):  Saint  Kitts  and 
Nevis  would  like  to  add  its  voice  in  support  of  the 
resolution  on  agenda  item  41,  entitled  “Necessity  of 
ending the economic, commercial and financial embargo 
imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America  against 
Cuba”, and to give our reasons for voting in favour of 
resolution 67/4. My delegation associates itself with the 
statements  made  by  the  representatives  of  Barbados 
and  Algeria  on  behalf  of  the  Caribbean  Community 
and the Group of 77 and China, respectively, and by the 
representative of Chile on behalf of the Community of 
Latin American and Caribbean States (see A/67/PV.35).
Over  the  years,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis  has  had 
good relations with the United States of America, and 
that  country  continues  to  be  one  of  our  closest  and 
strongest partners. We respect the role that the United 
States  has  played  in  international  relations  and  in  the 
establishment  and  promotion  of  this  very  body.  It  is  a 
global leader, and we acknowledge and remain grateful 
for its role in international affairs. 
While  recognizing  recent  concessions  that  have 
been made on the matter of the Cuban embargo, Saint 
Kitts and Nevis feels that they are not enough, and that 
much more should be done. As we have said before, in 
spite of our size we are prepared to signal wrongdoing 
and  speak  truth  to  power  when  a  platform  presents 
itself to do so. Today, we do the same in supporting and 
voting for the resolution.
in 
international  affairs.  For 
This  is  an  extremely  important  battle  that  goes 
to  the  core  of  international  relations,  sovereignty, 
non-intervention  and  the  strengthened  role  of  the 
United  Nations 
the 
past  21  years,  Members  have  voted  in  favour  of  the 
resolution  to  end  the  embargo.  This  year,  it  continues 
to have the overwhelming support of the international 
community. Saint Kitts and Nevis, in its contribution to 
the Secretary-General’s report on the matter (A/67/118), 
advised  that  we  do  not  support  or  apply  any  laws  or 
measures  that  restrict  the  free  f low  of  international 
trade. We also advised that we do not apply laws with 
extraterritorial  effect  that  impinge  on  the  sovereignty 
of  other  States  and  the  legitimate  interests  of  entities 
or persons under their jurisdiction. That is a principled 
position adopted by Member States of this body.
Saint Kitts and Nevis feels very strongly, therefore, 
about bringing the embargo imposed on Cuba to an end. 
Cuba  is  a  pan-Caribbean  partner.  It  has  aided  in  the 
development of the health-care systems and other areas 
in  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis.  There  is  much  from  which 
the  international  community  has  benefited,  and  can 
benefit,  in  cooperating  with  Cuba,  just  as  Saint  Kitts 
and Nevis has benefited.
from 
the 
support 
It  is  disheartening  that,  although  the  resolutions 
calling  for  an  end  to  the  embargo  have  received 
overwhelming 
international 
community  for  the  past  21  consecutive  years,  the 
sanctions  have  been  maintained.  That  unilateral 
initiative  has  stunted  the  growth  of  the  Cuban  people 
and has affected their social and economic development. 
The embargo is wrong on all levels, but none more so 
than humanitarian grounds. 
8 
12-58855
We  implore  all  Member  States  to  respect  the 
sanctity  of  the  General  Assembly  and  the  decisions  it 
takes. The continued failure to respect United Nations 
decisions  continues 
to  undermine  multilateralism 
and  the  functioning  of  the  United  Nations  system.  It 
is  my  delegation’s  hope  that  the  two  countries,  Cuba 
and  the  United  States  of  America,  can  improve  their 
relationship  and  embark  on  a  process  of  partnership 
and cooperation. Saint Kitts and Nevis believes that the 
discontinuation  of  the  embargo  would  go  a  long  way 
towards  improving  relations  and  cooperation  between 
the  two  countries.  The  issue  is  now  no  longer  seen  as 
a matter of merely bilateral interest, but of multilateral 
concern, we join the call of the international community 
on the United States to discontinue the embargo.
Mr.  Thu  (Myanmar):  I  am  taking  the  f loor  to 
explain  my  delegation’s  position  on  resolution  67/4, 
which  was  just  adopted  by  an  overwhelming  majority 
of  Member  States.  I  would  also  like  to  take  this 
opportunity  to  thank  Mr.  Bruno  Rodríguez  Parrilla, 
Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba, for his important 
statement.
As  a  member  of  the  Non-Aligned  Movement, 
Myanmar  has  steadfastly  adhered  to  the  principled 
position of the Movement in strongly opposing the use 
of unilateral trade and economic sanctions against some 
members of the Movement for the purpose of exerting 
political  pressure.  In  fact,  they  are  counterproductive 
and undermine the cause of human rights, particularly 
the right of peoples to development.
As  a  country  confronted  with  similar  unilateral 
sanctions  for  decades,  Myanmar  fully  understands 
from  its  own  experience  the  extent  of  the  hardship 
and  suffering  caused  by  unilateral  sanctions,  which 
directly affect the people of the country, especially the 
vulnerable groups of women and children. We are thus 
sympathetic to the fact that the decades-long embargo 
imposed on Cuba has caused massive economic damage 
and hardship to the country and its people, preventing 
the  country  from  fully  developing 
its  economic 
potential.
Therefore,  my  delegation  has  always 
taken 
the  principled  position  of  joining  the  international 
community  every  year  in  calling  for  an  end  to  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba  in  order  to  relieve  the  suffering  of  the  people. 
Myanmar fully subscribes to the purposes and principles 
enshrined  in  the  Charter,  especially  the  principle  of 
the  sovereign  equality  of  nations.  Adherence  to  those 
A/67/PV.36
principles will contribute to the elimination of tension 
and confrontation between States. We therefore believe 
that  the  embargo  and  coercive  measures  should  be 
replaced by dialogue and cooperation.
For those reasons, Myanmar has once again voted 
in favour of the resolution on the subject.
Mr.  Awinador-Kanyirige  (Ghana):  Ghana  aligns 
itself with the statements made on behalf of the African 
Group,  the  Non-Aligned  Movement  and  the  Group  of 
77 plus China (see A/67/PV.35). 
Ghana  has  never  supported  the  imposition  of  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  by 
the  United  States  of  America  against  Cuba.  Ghana’s 
position is informed by its commitment to its obligation 
to  adhere  to  the  United  Nations  Charter.  It  is  also 
morally indefensible to deny the people of the sovereign 
State of Cuba the benefits derived from external trade. 
Ghana wishes to appeal to the United States Congress 
to heed the clarion call repeated over the past 22 years 
to  help  rectify  the  major  hiccup  in  multilateralism 
that  the  embargo  represents.  Over  the  years,  Cuba 
has  demonstrated  the  spirit  of  multilateralism  and 
international cooperation by playing host to thousands 
of students from Africa, who return to their respective 
countries  to  contribute  to  the  development  of  their 
countries and global progress.
It is our hope that the issue of the embargo can be 
resolved more expeditiously to help us put it behind us 
and move forward together with the friendly peoples of 
Cuba and the United States of America.
Mr.  Oyarzábal  (Argentina)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Argentina’s  vote  in  favour  of  resolution  67/4  ref lects 
our  positive  stance  with  respect  to  the  elimination  of 
the type of unilateral and illegitimate measure that the 
embargo represents. The Government of the Argentine 
Republic  is  committed  to  fully  implementing  the 
provisions of the resolution just adopted.
Argentina  maintains  a  strong  commitment  to 
multilateralism as a legitimate instrument for resolving 
disputes  between  States  and  as  the  primary  means  of 
responding  to  the  major  challenges  that  require  close 
cooperation  between  countries.  The  embargo  against 
Cuba is contrary to international law and the principles 
of the Charter of the United Nations. 
Argentine  legislation  on  the  subject  established, 
through Act No. 24,871 of 1997, that foreign legislation 
that  seeks,  through  the  imposition  of  an  economic 
12-58855
9
A/67/PV.36
embargo  or  limits  on  investment  in  a  given  country, 
to  have  extraterritorial  legal  effects  in  order  to  bring 
about a change of Government in a country or to affect 
its  right  to  self-determination,  shall  be  absolutely 
inapplicable  and  devoid  of  legal  effect.  Moreover, 
it  stipulated  that  foreign  legislation  that  puts  limits, 
through  the  imposition  of  an  economic  embargo,  on 
investment  in  a  given  country  or  imposes  restrictions 
on  the  free  circulation  of  persons,  services  or  goods, 
or  seeks  to  have  extraterritorial  legal  effects  in  order 
to bring about a change of Government in a country or 
to  affect  its  right  to  self-determination,  shall  also  be 
absolutely inapplicable and devoid of legal effect. 
It is therefore unacceptable that, despite the reiterated 
and practically unanimous calls from the international 
community, in particular the General Assembly, for its 
elimination,  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo against Cuba persists. We must eliminate such 
coercive  unilateral  measures,  which  cause  irreparable 
harm  to  the  well-being  of  peoples.  Argentina  joins 
others in rejecting the embargo and reiterates its stance 
against  such  measures  and  its  determined  support  to 
Cuba’s call to end the embargo.
Mr.  Al  Habib  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  At 
the  outset,  allow  me  to  congratulate  the  Minister  for 
Foreign Affairs of Cuba for the overwhelming majority 
support enjoyed by resolution 67/4, which was adopted 
this  morning.  We  voted  in  favour  of  the  resolution 
just  adopted  under  agenda  item  41  on  the  necessity 
of  ending  the  economic,  commercial  and  financial 
embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States  of  America 
against Cuba. The views of the Islamic Republic of Iran 
on this important issue were articulated before the vote 
this morning in the statement delivered on behalf of the 
Non-Aligned  Movement.  However,  in  explaining  our 
vote after the voting, I would like to state the following.
The  unilateral  embargo  has  an  extended  negative 
effect on companies and citizens from third countries, 
thereby  violating  their  sovereign  rights.  The  Islamic 
Republic  of  Iran  reiterates  its  deep  concern  at  the 
harmful  impact  on  other  countries  resulting  from 
the  extraterritorial  nature  of  the  embargo,  which  we 
consider  an  added  argument  in  favour  of  the  prompt 
elimination of all unfounded sanctions.
The Assembly has repeatedly rejected the imposition 
of  laws  and  regulations  with  extraterritorial  impact 
and  all  other  kinds  of  coercive  economic  measures 
that hurt the progress and prosperity of people all over 
the  world.  The  Assembly  has  also  called  upon  States 
to  respect  their  obligations  under  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations and international law and to repeal and 
invalidate laws and measures that have extraterritorial 
effects  on  other  States.  The  embargo,  particularly 
through its extraterritorial effects, adversely affects the 
economic prosperity of the targeted countries. Sanctions 
increase  commodity  and  energy  prices  and  limit  the 
access of States to markets, investment, technology and 
financial services, and even scientific, educational and 
cultural events, and thus contribute to global economic 
stagnation  and  hamper  sound  and  healthy  relations 
among  nations.  Examples  of  such  embargoes  are  the 
measures  imposed  unilaterally  against  Cuba  and  Iran, 
which  have  brought  extra  pressure  on  the  targeted 
countries.
It  is  unfortunate  that,  in  spite  of  the  General 
Assembly’s  yearly  rejection  of  the  United  States 
embargo  against  Cuba,  the  embargo  remains  in  full 
force.  We  see  such  enforcement  as  a  violation  of 
world  opinion  and  an  act  that  severely  undermines 
multilateralism  and  the  credibility  of  the  United 
Nations  itself.  Multilateralism  remains  the  best  route 
for  resolving  disputes  and  guaranteeing  the  peaceful 
coexistence of States. The Islamic Republic of Iran has 
therefore supported all initiatives against embargoes as 
a tool to exert political and economic pressure on other 
States.  We  shall  continue  to  support  Cuba  in  its  right 
to  have  access  to  global  economic,  commercial  and 
financial  exchanges  in  order  to  promote  cooperation 
and development.
Our  close  ties  and  friendship  with  Cuba  and  the 
Cuban people lead us to vehemently oppose the blockade 
and  emphasize  the  urgent  need  to  put  an  end  to  such 
inhumane measures against Cuba and other developing 
countries  and  to  fully  implement  the  resolution  just 
adopted (resolution 67/4).
Mr. Mashabane (South Africa): We would like to 
take  this  opportunity  to  congratulate  the  people  and 
the Government of Cuba on the adoption of resolution 
67/4,  “Necessity  of  ending  the  economic,  commercial 
and  financial  embargo  imposed  by  the  United  States 
of  America  against  Cuba”,  with  the  support  of  almost 
all  members  of  the  General  Assembly.  The  peoples  of 
the world have today spoken loudly and in no uncertain 
terms  against  the  grave  injustice  being  committed 
against the people of Cuba. We would also like to take 
this  opportunity  to  thank  the  Minister  for  Foreign 
Affairs  of  Cuba  for  his  attendance  on  this  historic 
10 
12-58855
A/67/PV.36
occasion,  when  the  General  Assembly  adopted  this 
crucial resolution.
in  relations  and  cooperation  and  reaffirms  South 
Africa’s commitment and ongoing support for Cuba.
The question of ending the economic, commercial 
and financial embargo imposed by the United States of 
America  against  Cuba  has  been  and  continues  to  be  a 
persistent problem for the United Nations, despite many 
calls for its elimination. It is for that reason that South 
Africa would like to reiterate its support for the lifting 
of the United States embargo against Cuba. In doing so, 
South Africa supports the resolution that has just been 
adopted.
The  continued  imposition  of  the  embargo  by  the 
United  States  of  America  against  Cuba  is  a  f lagrant 
violation of the principles of the sovereign equality of 
States and of non-intervention and non-interference in 
domestic affairs. Furthermore, the blockade constitutes 
a  violation  of  international  law,  and  its  imposition 
shows  disregard  for  the  noble  principles  enshrined  in 
the Charter of the United Nations.
As a result of the laws and regulations that define 
the  blockade,  Cuba  is  unable  to  freely  export  and 
import  products  and  services  to  or  from  the  United 
States and cannot use United States dollars to carry out 
its international financial transactions or hold accounts 
in  that  currency  in  third  countries’  banks.  Cuba  is 
also  not  allowed  to  receive  credits  from  international 
institutions  such  as  the  World  Bank,  the  International 
Monetary  Fund  or  the  Inter-American  Development 
Bank.  In  addition,  bilateral  economic  ties  between 
Cuba and South Africa in particular, and other friendly 
nations in general, are further hampered and restricted 
by  United  States  domestic  law.  That  has  led  to  the 
economic  and  social  suffering  of  the  Cuban  civilian 
population,  who  bear  the  brunt  of  this  injustice.  This 
situation needs to end.
It  is  our  well-considered  view  that  the  embargo 
violates the rights of the people of Cuba to socioeconomic 
development. It is therefore against that backdrop that 
South  Africa  has  repeatedly  joined  the  majority  of 
countries in expressing opposition to all aspects of the 
blockade and the unilateral action by the United States.
South  Africa  is  pleased  to  announce  that  an 
agreement  in  the  matter  of  economic  assistance  for 
Cuba has been duly ratified by the National Assembly 
of  South  Africa.  The  Agreement  and  ratification 
documents  have  been  submitted  to  the  President  for 
final ratification. It is expected that all formalities will 
be concluded by the end of 2012. That is a breakthrough 
The  international  community  recognizes  Cuba’s 
outstanding work in the areas of health, education and 
biotechnology in Latin America, the Caribbean, Africa 
and  the  underdeveloped  world  in  particular  and  the 
world  in  general.  A  total  of  321  South  Africans  who 
have graduated in Cuba are working as medical doctors 
in  various  South  African  hospitals,  and  a  further  408 
South African students are currently studying medicine 
in Cuba. Furthermore, the Extended Health Cooperation 
Agreement  signed  between  the  two  parties  on  Africa 
Day,  25  May,  in  Pretoria,  makes  provision  for,  among 
other things, the training of an additional 1,000 South 
African students in Cuba, in an attempt to address the 
country’s  shortage  of  medical  doctors.  The  embargo 
stif les  that  outstanding  contribution  to  economic  and 
social  development  and  hinders  the  betterment  of  the 
lives of the poor.
South  Africa  therefore  supports  the  lifting  of  the 
United States of America’s embargo against Cuba, and 
we  refrain  from  recognizing  unilateral  measures  and 
laws of a coercive nature that defy the principles of the 
United Nations Charter and norms of international law. 
We remain grateful for the role that Cuba and its people 
played in our struggle against colonialism, oppression 
and apartheid in Africa.
Mr.  Beck  (Solomon  Islands):  Let  me  begin  by 
associating  myself  with  the  statement  delivered  at 
the  35th  meeting  by  the  representatives  of  Algeria  on 
behalf of the Group of 77 and China, and of Barbados, 
our  fellow  small  island  developing  State,  on  behalf  of 
the Caribbean Community, and all those who spoke in 
favour of resolution 67/4 today.
My delegation congratulates Cuba on the adoption 
of the resolution in the presence of Mr. Bruno Rodríguez 
Parrilla,  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Cuba.  As  in 
previous years, the Solomon Islands voted in favour of 
the 21-year-old resolution, entitled “Necessity of ending 
the  economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo 
imposed by the United States of America against Cuba”. 
We do so as the embargo continues to claim enormous 
losses,  including  loss  of  life,  and  to  work  against  the 
principles, letter and spirit of the Charter of the United 
Nations.
The world annually makes an appeal to our friend 
and  partner,  the  United  States  of  America,  to  show 
some  care  and  to  have  compassion  when  it  comes  to 
12-58855
11
A/67/PV.36
the  severity  of  its  prolonged  sanctions  against  the 
people of Cuba. When sanctions defy international and 
humanitarian law, embargoes cause needless suffering, 
and  an  extraterritorial  blockade  restrains  a  country’s 
development  aspirations,  which  speaks  of  nothing 
short  of  a  disharmonious  relationship  between  two 
neighbours. In other words, the United States embargo 
is  based  on  the  concept  that  what  is  bad  for  Cuba  is 
good for the United States of America.
A positive and engaging atmosphere is needed. In 
that connection, the United Nations, as an organization 
responsible for the maintenance of international peace 
and security, is the rightful place to address such issues. 
So  we  welcome  the  resolution.  The  resolution  stands 
for  peace.  It  speaks  for  respect  for  good-neighbourly 
relations in principle, as enshrined in the Charter of the 
United  Nations.  It  is  in  that  regard  that  the  Solomon 
Islands  once  again  humbly  requests  the  United  States 
to reach out and give peace a chance. 
The  credibility  of  the  Organization  rests  on  the 
actions  we  take  as  members  of  this  global  institution. 
The  lifting  of  the  embargo,  especially  by  a  friend and 
partner  with  absolute  power,  will  create  the  needed 
positive  relationship.  We,  the  Members  of  the  United 
Nations,  should  not  embrace  multilateralism  only 
when  it  suits  the  United  States  and  discard  it  at  our 
convenience; rather, we must honour and live up to our 
Charter responsibilities, as the people depend on it. 
For  more 
than  50  years 
the  Cuban  people 
have  continued  to  stand  tall  against  those  difficult 
circumstances.  We  continue 
to  recognize  Cuba’s 
resilience,  friendship  and  solidarity  as  it  continues 
to  extend  assistance  to  countries  all  over  the  world, 
including those in the Pacific and the Solomon Islands, 
helping  us  to  achieve  our  Millennium  Development 
Goals via the training of our medical students. 
The  suggestion  made  today  by  Cuba’s  Minister 
for  Foreign  Affairs  (see  A/67/PV.35)  of  submitting  a 
draft agenda to its neighbour the United States, aimed 
at  normalizing  relations,  is  welcomed  by  the  General 
Assembly.  My  delegation  hopes  that  Cuba’s  outreach 
to  the  United  States  will  be  reciprocated  by  the 
United  States  through  the  unconditional  lifting  of  the 
economic,  commercial  and  financial  embargo  against 
Cuba and the strengthening of multilateralism. We will 
continue to support the resolution as we move forward. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in explanation of vote. 
One  representative  has  asked  to  take  the  f loor  in 
exercise  of  the  right  of  reply.  May  I  remind  him  that 
statements  in  the  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply  are 
limited  to  10  minutes  for  the  first  intervention  and  to 
five minutes for the second intervention, and should be 
made by delegations from their seats.
I now give the f loor to the representative of Cuba.
Mr. Rodríguez Parrilla (Cuba) (spoke in Spanish): 
Mr. Godard has continued to repeat the same story that 
he has recounted to the Assembly every year in seeking 
to  uphold  the  Bush  policy  and  now  that  of  President 
Obama. That story will not become true simply through 
repetition. Only four of the paragraphs that he read out 
today were not an almost word-for-word repetition of the 
statement that was delivered last year (see A/66/PV.41). 
Mr. Godard repeats himself, but the blockade does not 
change. It is a remnant of the Cold War.
Mr. Godard lies in saying that the blockade exists 
out  of  respect  for  the  Cuban  people’s  right  to  freely 
determine their future. We are here because the United 
States Government has sought to impose its own designs 
on Cuba over the course of a century since 1901, when 
the United States imposed, through military occupation, 
the Platt Amendment, which allowed it to intervene in 
Cuba  and  occupy  the  Guantánamo  naval  base,  which 
it  continues  to  usurp.  We  are  here  because  the  Cuban 
people  have  defended  their  right  to  self-determination 
and  independence  with  their  own  blood  on  the  shores 
of  Playa  Girón  and  when  faced  with  the  threat  of  a 
nuclear  holocaust  in  the  October  1962  crisis  or  the 
missile  crisis.  Nobody  believes  that  the  United  States 
Government is interested in the freedom of the Cuban 
people, after having dishonoured that freedom for half 
a  century  and  lent  its  support  to  bloody  dictatorships 
in  Cuba  and  throughout  the  region.  What  it  wishes  to 
achieve  in  Cuba  is  a  docile  Government  that  supports 
its interests, and that is not going to happen. 
The  Cuban  people  gained  their  freedom  on  their 
own  and  have  resolutely  exercised  their  right  to  self-
determination.  They  have  demonstrated  that  will  in 
the  popular  discourse  of  economic  and  social  policies 
and  in  the  elections  under  way.  They  nominate  their 
own  candidates;  there  is  a  massive  turnout  to  vote  for 
them  and  they  revoke  them  when  they  choose.  There 
are no special interests in Cuba, no corruption and no 
political manoeuvring. We do not waste $3 billion on a 
presidential or senatorial campaigns, and Cuba is not a 
plutocracy where the 1 per cent imposes its interests.
12 
12-58855
It  would  be  worthwhile  to  listen  to  the  people  of 
the  United  States  and  respect  their  right  to  decide  for 
themselves; to listen to the people who make up 90 per 
cent  of  the  populace  and  not  a  handful  of  the  wealthy 
who benefit from the current system; to listen to those 
who  want  to  occupy  Wall  Street,  rather  than  seeking 
to rescue the bankers who receive scandalous bonuses. 
They should stop brutally repressing the Occupy Wall 
Street demonstrations and put an end to the widespread 
arrests of peaceful demonstrators and the harassment of 
immigrants and minorities. 
I  repeat  that  the  blockade  is  an  act  of  genocide.  I 
note that Mr. Godard did not deny that this time around. 
One  would  have  to  be  cynical,  if  one  were  to  refer  to 
the  human  rights  and  the  freedom,  prosperity  and 
well-being  of  the  Cuban  people  after  having  listened 
to the examples that I mentioned concerning the harm 
the blockade has caused to the children of my country. 
They should stop wasting the money of their honourable 
workers, whose taxes are going to pay mercenaries and 
special agents, and eliminate the quadrennial budget of 
more than $196 billion to create alleged dissidents. 
Mr. Godard, who was for years was the head of the 
Miami  Office  of  the  Coordinator  of  Cuban  Affairs,  is 
fully  aware  of  what  we  are  talking  about.  The  United 
States Government lacks any moral authority to speak of 
human rights. Furthermore, in addition to a deplorable 
historic record of military aggressions and coups d’état, 
it  has  caused  tens  of  thousands  of  disappearances, 
murders  and  acts  of  torture.  It  is  responsible  for  tens, 
even  hundreds  of  extrajudicial  executions,  acts  of 
torture, abductions, secret f lights, secret prisons and a 
concentration camp in Guantánamo. 
If  one  believes  that  the  economic  blockade  is 
necessary  as  a  pretext,  one  should  do  away  with  the 
pretext  and  prove  it.  If  the  United  States  Government 
wishes  to  support  Cuban  agricultural  purchases,  then 
put  an  end  to  the  discriminatory  sale  measures;  allow 
private  credit;  accept  the  norms  of  international  trade 
and  authorize  the  use  of  vessels  of  other  countries 
and  do  not  penalize  them  for  a  six-month  period; 
allow  Cuban  exports  in  exchange  for  the  purchase  of 
foodstuffs,  which  have  fallen  drastically  as  a  result  of 
the  conditions  that  have  been  imposed  by  the  United 
States  Government  upon  producers  and  which  have 
led  our  Cuban  importers  to  seek  out  better  markets; 
advocate  a  free  f low  of  information;  lift  the  blockade 
in  the  telecommunications  sector;  allow  for  a  Cuban 
connection to the submarine cables in order to improve 
A/67/PV.36
Internet  access;  put  an  end  to  illegal  and  subversive 
broadcasting  on  the  radio  and  television;  allow  the 
purchase  of  United  States  software  and  the  training 
of  specialists;  put  an  end  to  information  technology 
restrictions  and  permit  the  use  of  those  services  that 
provide technological support but have been prohibited 
to date from export to Cuba.
If  they  wish  for  more  exchanges  and  contact 
between  the  peoples,  then  they  should  respect  the 
constitutional  right  and  the  freedom  of  United  States 
citizens to travel to Cuba, as they are free to travel to 
any  other  country,  even  in  times  of  war.  They  should 
stop  imposing  restrictions  on  the  granting  of  licences 
and  accept  that  walking  and  listening  to  Cuban  music 
and  dancing  are  not  crimes  and  can  be  part  of  the 
activities offered by travel agencies. 
If they wish to see better education for young people, 
then cooperation and exchange programmes should be 
authorized  between  universities,  including  grants  in 
all  realms  of  science  and  technology;  an  end  should 
be  put  to  the  subversive  and  illegal  use  of  training  by 
the United States Interests Section in Havana; and the 
obstacles  to  international  medical  cooperation  should 
be removed.
The  representative  of  the  United  States  lies  when 
he affirms that his country is one of the leading donors 
of humanitarian aid to Cuba. He has used false figures, 
which  include  the  millions  of  dollars  that  the  United 
States  Agency  for  International  Development  uses  to 
subvert the constitutional order in my country, amounts 
for  commercial  licences  that  have  never  materialized, 
and  the  small  but  generous  and  greatly  appreciated 
donations  that  non-governmental  organizations,  in 
defiance  of  the  policies  of  their  Government,  send 
to  Cuba,  overcoming  enormous  obstacles.  Cuban 
emigrants, 
emigrants,  painstakingly 
save  remittances  from  their  hard  work.  That  is  not 
humanitarian  aid  provided  by 
the  United  States 
Government. 
like  other 
Mr.  Alan  Gross  was  punished  under  due  process 
for  carrying  out  covert  operations  that  were  funded 
by  the  United  States  Government  and  made  use 
of  non-commercial  technology  against  the  Cuban 
constitutional  order.  Those  acts  were  provided  for 
and  sanctioned  under  United  States  law.  Mr.  Godard 
lies  when  he  says  that  Mr.  Gross  helped  the  Jewish 
community  to  gain  access  to  the  Internet.  The  United 
States  Government  is  responsible  for  the  situation  of 
12-58855
13
A/67/PV.36
Mr. Gross, and it could start by sitting down for a serious 
discussion of the case with the Cuban Government.
It was so decided.
President  Obama  has  the  opportunity  to  make  a 
difference and to go down in history as having modified 
a mistaken policy that has failed to work for more than 
50  years  and  has  caused  irreparable  human  damage 
and  massive  violations  of  human  rights.  Perhaps  then 
Mr.  Godard  could  come  back  to  the  Assembly  to  say 
that something has truly changed.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the 
wish  of  the  Assembly  to  conclude  its  consideration  of 
agenda item 41?
Programme of work
The  Acting  President:  I  would  like  to  make  the 
following  announcement  concerning  the  work  of  the 
plenary. Consideration of agenda item 32, “The role of 
diamonds in fuelling conf lict”, originally scheduled for 
Thursday, 6 December, has been postponed to Monday, 
17 December.
The meeting rose at 4.35 p.m.
14 
12-58855
