United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
49th plenary meeting
Monday, 10 December 2012, 10 a.m.
New York
A/67/PV.49
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Serbia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Charles 
(Trinidad  and  Tobago),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 75 (continued)
Oceans and the law of the sea
Commemoration of the thirtieth anniversary 
of the opening for signature of the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of 
the Sea 
The  Acting  President:  Members  are  reminded 
that, in accordance with resolution 67/5, the debate on 
agenda item 75 and its sub-items (a) and (b) is scheduled 
to  take  place  tomorrow,  11  December  2012.  I  should 
also  like  to  remind  participants  that  statements  in  the 
commemoration  should  be  limited  to  10  minutes,  as 
stipulated in the same resolution.
I  shall  now  read  out  a  statement  on  behalf  of  the 
President of the General Assembly, Mr. Vuk Jeremić.
“It  is  a  genuine  honour  to  participate  in  the 
commemoration  of  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of 
the  opening  for  signature  of  the  United  Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS). 
The  Convention  is,  in  my  view,  a  United  Nations 
success  story.  When  the  Organization  came  into 
being  in  1945,  the  oceans  were  largely  regulated 
by  customary  international  law.  Member  States 
realized that a universal law of the sea was urgently 
needed. In that respect, the General Assembly was 
able  to  perform  one  of  its  main  functions,  under 
Article  13  of  the  Charter,  in  ‘encouraging  the 
progressive  development  of  international  law  and 
its codification’.
“It was the Permanent Representative of Malta, 
the late Ambassador Arvid Pardo, who is considered 
the founding father of UNCLOS and who proposed, 
in  this  very  Hall  in  1967,  a  comprehensive  treaty 
to  ensure  the  peaceful  use  and  exploitation  of 
the  world’s  oceans.  His  impassioned  and  lyrical 
speech lasted from morning well into the afternoon 
on  a  day  in  November,  45  years  ago.  It  included 
these  memorable  words  describing  man’s  close 
relationship to the sea: 
‘The  dark  oceans  were  the  womb  of  life: 
from  the  protecting  oceans  life  emerged.  We 
still bear in our bodies — in our blood, in the 
salty  bitterness  of  our  tears  —  the  marks  of 
this remote past.’
today. 
In  1982,  when 
“Ambassador  Pardo’s  legacy  is  the  highly 
complex  and  far-reaching  treaty  that  we  are 
commemorating 
the 
Convention  was  opened  for  signature,  it  ref lected 
an  unprecedented  attempt  by  the  international 
community to protect what he called the ‘common 
heritage  of  mankind’.  A  total  of  164  countries 
are  now  States  parties  to  the  Convention,  which 
addresses issues ranging from navigation rights to 
maritime zones and deep-sea mining, the protection 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-63631 (E)
*1263631*
A/67/PV.49
of  the  marine  environment  and  dispute  resolution 
procedures.
“I  am  proud  that  the  General  Assembly  has 
continued  to  play  an  important  role  in  the  further 
development of the law of the sea. Its involvement 
is consistent with the framework established under 
UNCLOS.
“Three  processes  and  working  groups  have 
been  established  in  the  General  Assembly  on 
issues  related  to  oceans  and  the  law  of  the  sea, 
namely,  the  United  Nations  Open-ended  Informal 
Consultative Process on Oceans and the Law of the 
Sea, the Regular Process for Global Reporting and 
Assessment of the State of the Marine Environment, 
including Socioeconomic Aspects, and the Ad Hoc 
Open-ended  Informal  Working  Group  to  study 
issues relating to the conservation and sustainable 
use of marine biological diversity beyond areas of 
national jurisdiction.
“I also welcome the Oceans Compact: Healthy 
Oceans for Prosperity initiative, recently launched 
by the Secretary-General, which sets out a strategic 
vision  for  the  United  Nations  system  to  deliver 
on  ocean-related  mandates.  The  exploitation  of 
the  world’s  oceans  was  one  of  the  critical  issues 
reviewed  at  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable  Development  (Rio+20  Conference), 
held  in  Rio  de  Janeiro  earlier  this  year.  The 
outcome  document  of  the  Rio+20  Conference, 
entitled  ‘The  future  we  want’  (resolution  66/288, 
annex),  recognizes  the  importance  of  the  legal 
framework provided by UNCLOS in achieving the 
conservation and sustainable use of the oceans and 
seas and their resources.
“The  world’s  oceans  play  a  key  role  in 
sustaining  life  on  the  planet  and  in  promoting  the 
economic  and  social  advancement  of  all  peoples 
of  the  world.  A  sustainable  future  will  involve 
renewable  energy.  Marine  renewable  energies 
are  an  untapped  potential  in  many  regions  of  the 
world  and  can  play  a  significant  role  in  meeting 
sustainable  development  goals, 
in  enhancing 
energy security and in creating jobs.
“Humankind  has  put  the  oceans  at  risk  of 
irreversible damage. Overfishing, pollution, climate 
change,  ocean  acidification  and  unsustainable 
coastal  area  development  and  resource  extraction 
have resulted in the loss of biodiversity and damage 
to  habitats.  I  am  particularly  concerned  about  the 
small  island  States,  where  climate  change  and 
oceanic acidification remain a great threat not only 
to  their  livelihoods,  security  and  well-being  but 
also  to  the  very  survival  of  those  territories  and 
nations.
to 
“I  would  like  to  use  this  opportunity  to 
the 
encourage  Member  States 
agreed  commitments  on  reducing  greenhouse  gas 
emissions. As the globe continues to warm up and 
sea  levels  rise,  a  number  of  small  island  States 
rely  on  the  concerted  action  of  all  United  Nations 
Members for their very survival.
implement 
“UNCLOS,  along  with  other  international 
conventions,  has  become  a  critical  element  of 
the  international  legal  framework  and  can  guide 
our  shared  efforts  to  protect  the  world’s  oceanic 
environment. Now, more than ever before, we need 
to  find  a  way  to  live  in  harmony  with  the  natural 
world.  We  have  a  duty  to  protect  the  livelihoods 
of  people  who  live  from  the  sea  but,  at  the  same 
time, we need to improve its ecological health and 
to  protect  its  natural  resources.  I  strongly  believe 
that nations should work together to achieve a more 
sustainable  management  of  that  precious  resource 
and to address the threats that it currently faces.
“The  preamble  to  UNCLOS  states  that  the 
Convention: 
‘will  promote  the  peaceful  uses  of  the 
seas  and  oceans,  the  equitable  and  efficient 
utilization of their resources, the conservation 
of  their  living  resources,  and  the  study, 
protection  and  preservation  of  the  marine 
environment’.
“It is a commendable goal to which, I believe, 
all  nations  can  and  should  agree.  In  that  regard,  I 
encourage all Member States that have not done so 
to act in the service of humankind by signing and 
ratifying that seminal Convention.”
The Acting President: I now give the f loor to the 
Secretary-General, His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon.
The  Secretary-General:  We  come 
together 
to  celebrate  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of  the  United 
Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  When  the 
Convention  was  opened  for  signature  in  1982,  it  was 
called a constitution for the oceans. Like a constitution, 
it is a firm foundation and a permanent document that 
2 
12-63631
provides order, stability, predictability and security on 
the basis of the rule of law.
The Convention on the Law of the Sea is the legal 
framework that guides every aspect of our management 
of the oceans and seas. It is an acknowledgement that the 
many challenges and uses of the ocean are interrelated 
and need to be considered as a whole. With 320 articles 
and nine annexes, the Convention covers every aspect 
of  the  oceans  and  marine  environment  and  sets  out  a 
delicate balance of rights and duties.
As  Ambassador  Tommy  Koh  of  Singapore  said  in 
a statement commemorating the twentieth anniversary 
of  the  Convention,  ‘the  process  of  achieving  the 
Convention  is  almost  as  important  as  the  Convention 
itself’  (A/57/PV.70,  p.  6).  Forged  through  negotiations 
among  more  than  150  States,  the  treaty  is  a  testament 
to  the  power  of  international  cooperation,  multilateral 
negotiation and consensus-building.
Today,  we  also  pay  tribute  to  the  pioneers  who 
helped  to  bring  the  treaty  to  life,  namely,  the  late 
Ambassador  Arvid  Pardo  of  Malta,  who  launched  the 
concept  of  the  international  seabed  as  the  common 
heritage  of  humankind;  the  late  Ambassador  Shirley 
Hamilton Amerasinghe of Sri Lanka, who served as the 
first President of the third United Nations Conference on 
the Law of the Sea; and, of course, Ambassador Tommy 
Koh, the most recent President of the Conference.
Their 
leadership  and  diplomatic  skills  were 
instrumental  in  creating  the  legacy  that  we  celebrate 
today. The codification and progressive development of 
the law of the sea have provided a f lexible and evolving 
international 
framework.  The  Convention 
has  guided  us  through  the  settlement  of  disputes, 
the  delineation  of  the  outer  limits  of  the  extended 
continental shelf and the administration of the resources 
of the international seabed.
legal 
Every day, the Convention continues to contribute 
to  international  peace  and  security,  as  well  as  the 
equitable  and  efficient  use  of  ocean  resources.  In 
every  corner  of  the  world,  it  supports  our  efforts  to 
protect  and  preserve  the  marine  environment  and  to 
realize  a  just  and  equitable  economic  order.  In  short, 
the  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  is  an  important 
tool  for  sustainable  development,  as  affirmed  this 
year by the United Nations Conference on Sustainable 
Development.
However,  the  oceans  continue  to  face  many 
challenges,  including  pollution,  ocean  acidification, 
A/67/PV.49
overexploitation  of  resources,  piracy  and  maritime 
boundary  disputes.  Addressing  such  issues  should 
compel  us  to  strive  for  the  full  implementation  of  the 
Convention.
I am encouraged that the support for the Convention 
has  grown  steadily  over  the  years.  With  164  parties, 
including  the  European  Union,  it  is  nearing  the  goal 
of  universality  set  out  by  the  General  Assembly  (see 
resolution  37/66).  Let  us  work  to  bring  all  nations 
under  the  jurisdiction,  protection  and  guidance  of 
that  essential  treaty.  Let  that  be  our  goal  as  we  mark 
30 years of achievement and look to the next generation 
of opportunities, challenges and hopes on the high seas.
The  Acting  President:  I  thank  the  Secretary-
General for his statement.
I now give the f loor to Mr. Tommy Koh, President 
of the Third United Nations Conference on the Law of 
the Sea.
Mr.  Koh 
(President,  Third  United  Nations 
Conference  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea):  I  would  like  to 
extend  a  warm  welcome  to  my  colleagues  from  the 
United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea. With 
advancing age, they have become a highly endangered 
species of homo sapiens. Let us extend a warm welcome 
to them.
Thirty  years  ago,  the  United  Nations  Convention 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  was  adopted  after  a  decade  of 
patient and painstaking negotiations. On 10 December 
1982, the Convention was opened for signature and was 
signed by 119 States on that day. The Convention today 
has 161 parties that are Members of the United Nations. 
That means that there are 29 Member States that have 
not  yet  become  party  to  the  Convention.  One  of  them 
is  our  host  country,  the  United  States  of  America. 
I  apologize  in  advance  to  the  representative  of  the 
United  States  in  case  what  I  am  about  to  say  offends 
her. When my wife asked me recently when the United 
States would accede to the Convention, I answered her 
by quoting Churchill, who once said that we can always 
count  on  the  United  States  to  do  the  right  thing  after 
it  has  tried  everything  else.  I  hope  we  do  not  have  to 
wait  much  longer,  as  the  Convention  is  clearly  in  the 
interests of the United States and of the other States.
I wish to make three points. First, I wish to observe 
that  the  Convention  has  become  the  constitution  for 
the  oceans  and  seas.  It  is  both  comprehensive  and 
authoritative.  It  has  established  a  stable  legal  order.  It 
12-63631
3
A/67/PV.49
has  kept  the  peace  at  sea.  In  that  way,  it  has  made  a 
significant contribution to the rule of law in the world. 
The only parts of the world’s oceans in which maritime 
disputes  might  threaten  international  peace  are  the 
East China Sea and the South China Sea. I would like 
to  take  this  opportunity  to  call  upon  all  the  claimant 
States to act with restraint and to resolve their disputes 
peacefully and strictly in accordance with international 
law  and  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law 
of  the  Sea.  Negotiations  should  always  be  our  first 
preference. 
However,  if  negotiations  do  not  succeed,  I  would 
urge  the  parties  to  consider  referring  their  disputes 
to  conciliation,  mediation,  arbitration  or  adjudication 
by  the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea 
or  the  International  Court  of  Justice.  In  that  respect, 
I  recognize  the  presence  here  with  us  this  morning  of 
Judge  Yanai,  the  President  of  the  Tribunal,  and  Judge 
Greenwood of the International Court of Justice. I wish 
to commend them and their fellow judges for their good 
work. As an Asian, I know that, in some Asian cultures, 
there  is  reluctance  to  take  a  friend  to  court.  To  those 
claimant  States  that  feel  that  way,  I  would  encourage 
them to focus on the option of the joint development of 
the disputed areas.
Secondly,  I  would  like  to  point  out  that  the 
Convention represents a careful balance of the competing 
interests  of  all  States,  including,  inter  alia,  developed 
and developing, coastal, landlocked and geographically 
disadvantaged,  port  and  seafaring,  as  well  as  States 
with  artisanal  fishermen  and  those  with  distant-water 
fishermen.  The  balance  was  arrived  at  through  an 
open,  transparent  and  inclusive  process  in  which  all 
States,  big  and  small,  participated  and  contributed  to 
the compromises. The balance has worked well. It has 
stood  the  test  of  time. We  should  therefore  be  faithful 
in our interpretation and application of the Convention. 
We  should  avoid  undermining  the  integrity  of  the 
Convention  by  taking  actions  of  questionable  legality 
in order to further our short-term national interests. In 
some cases, States have taken advantage of ambiguous 
language in the text of the Convention. In others, they 
are finding ambiguity where none exists. 
Let  me  cite  a  few  examples.  Some  States  have 
drawn  straight  baselines  when  they  are  not  entitled  to 
do  so.  Some  States  have  enacted  domestic  legislation 
conferring  on  themselves  the  jurisdiction  to  regulate 
certain activities in the exclusive economic zone that the 
Convention  does  not  confer  on  them.  Other  States  act 
on the mistaken assumption that the exclusive economic 
zone  is  part  of  the  High  Sea,  forgetting  that  they  are 
enjoined by the Convention to have due regard for the 
rights  and  duties  of  the  coastal  State  and  to  comply 
with  the  laws  and  regulations  of  the  coastal  State,  so 
long  as  they  are  in  conformity  with  the  Convention. 
Some States have acted in contravention of the regime 
of  transit  passage.  Some  States  have  made  maritime 
claims  based  on  insular  features  that  are  not  justified 
under the Convention. That is not an exhaustive list.
Thirdly,  I  wish  to  refer  to  the  Secretary-General’s 
Oceans  Compact  initiative,  which  he  unveiled  at  the 
Yeosu  International  Conference  on  12  August  2012. 
The  Compact  has  the  following  three  objectives:  to 
protect  vulnerable  people  and  improve  the  health  of 
the oceans; to protect, recover and sustain the oceans’ 
environment and natural resources and to restore their 
full  food  production  and  livelihood  services;  and  to 
strengthen  the  knowledge  and  management  of  the 
oceans. Let me make a few comments on the Secretary-
General’s initiative.
The  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the 
United Nations (FAO) has repeatedly called the world’s 
attention to the crisis in the world’s fisheries. The crisis 
has been caused by overfishing, by illegal, unreported 
and  unregulated  fishing,  by  the  ineffectiveness  of 
regional fishery management organizations and by the 
use  of  highly  destructive  and  unsustainable  fishing 
methods. 
I would like to make a few suggestions. Subsidies 
for the fishing industry should be phased out, because 
they  have  led  to  overcapacity.  The  world  can  learn 
from  the  successful  experiences  of  Iceland  and  New 
Zealand in the management of their fishing resources. 
The 
International  Maritime  Organization  should 
consider requiring all commercial fishing vessels to be 
licensed  and  to  carry  transponders.  Regional  fishery 
management  organizations  should  be  empowered  to 
take decisions by consensus if possible, and by majority 
if  necessary.  Certain  highly  destructive  methods  of 
fishing should be banned. Furthermore, the FAO’s Code 
of Conduct for Responsible Fisheries, which deals with 
ethical fishing, should be strengthened. 
The nexus between climate change and the oceans 
is not sufficiently understood. The oceans serve as the 
blue  lungs  of  the  planet.  They  absorb  carbon  dioxide 
from  the  atmosphere  and  return  oxygen  to  it.  The 
oceans also play a role in regulating the world’s climate. 
4 
12-63631
One  impact  of  global  warming  is  that  our  oceans  are 
becoming both warmer and more acidic. That will have 
a devastating impact on the world’s coral reefs and on 
marine biodiversity. The welfare of 150 million people 
living  in  coastal  communities  will  be  affected  if  we 
allow the reefs to degenerate and die. 
Another  impact  of  global  warming  and  climate 
change  is  a  rise  in  sea  levels.  The  problem  is  not 
theoretical;  it  is  real.  Low-lying  countries,  such  as 
Bangladesh, and island countries, such as Maldives and 
those in the South Pacific, are already experiencing the 
loss of land to a rising sea. The members of the Alliance 
of  Small  Island  States  have  made  a  compelling  case, 
and we should listen more attentively to them. If the sea 
levels continue to rise, millions of people will have to 
leave their homes and become ecological refugees. 
I  also  support  the  Secretary-General’s  call  to 
strengthen our knowledge about and the management of 
the oceans. It is ironic that we seem to know more about 
outer space than we do about our oceans. The oceans are 
our last frontier. The United Nations University, under 
the  able  leadership  of  its  new  rector,  David  Malone, 
should ignite a new interest in research on oceans and 
on ocean law and policy. The United Nations Office of 
Legal Affairs, under the leadership of Patricia O’Brien, 
and  its  Division  for  Ocean  Affairs  and  the  Law  of  the 
Sea,  under  the  direction  of  Sergey  Tarasenko,  should 
incentivize  law  schools  around  the  world  to  promote 
research in and the teaching of the law of the sea.
In  conclusion,  50  years  ago,  the  old  maritime 
legal order was crumbling. There were many maritime 
disputes  between  States.  Two  European  countries 
even  fought  a  brief  war  over  cod.  In  response  to  that 
situation,  the  United  Nations  convened  the  Third 
United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea and 
held its first meeting in 1973. The Conference adopted 
a  convention  nine  years  later.  Many  learned  men  and 
women, people of goodwill, from all parts of the world, 
representing  over  150  countries,  participated  in  that 
historic  endeavour.  Many  of  them  have  passed  away. 
However,  their  legacy  of  a  new  maritime  legal  order, 
bringing with it peace, order and equity, will never be 
forgotten.
The Acting President: I now give the f loor to the 
representative of Malta, who will pay a special tribute 
to the late Ambassador Arvid Pardo of Malta.
Mr. Grima (Malta): It is an honour for me to have 
been  invited  to  address  the  General  Assembly  on  the 
A/67/PV.49
occasion  of  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of  the  opening 
for  signature  of  the  1982  United  Nations  Convention 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  It  is  a  particular  privilege  for 
me, as Malta’s Permanent Representative to the United 
Nations,  to  stand  before  the  General  Assembly  today 
to  pay  tribute  to  the  historic  contribution  of  the  late 
Ambassador  Arvid  Pardo,  Malta’s  first  Permanent 
Representative to the United Nations.
Arvid  Pardo  was  born  in  February  1914  to  a 
Maltese father and a Swedish mother, but would sadly 
lose  both  parents  before  he  was  even  10  years  old. 
He  was  brought  up  in  Italy,  where  he  would  receive 
a  doctorate  in  international  law  from  the  University 
of  Rome.  Without  a  doubt,  the  war  between  1939  and 
1945,  including  imprisonment  by  the  fascists  and 
years  in  solitary  confinement,  inf luenced  his  political 
philosophy  and  imbued  him  with  a  sense  of  purpose 
and  determination,  qualities  that  would  later  become 
self-evident  in  the  pursuit  of  his  vision  of  the  law  of 
the sea. 
He moved to London in 1945 and later embarked on 
a  distinguished  career  with  the  United  Nations,  where 
he  served  in  various  capacities,  both  at  Headquarters 
and  in  the  field,  before  being  appointed  as  Malta’s 
first  Permanent  Representative  to  the  United  Nations 
in 1964. In his own words, Ambassador Pardo recalled 
that 
“sometime  in  February  1967,  I  had  a  dream  about 
the  ocean’s  space  as  potentially  a  way  through 
which  a  more  peaceful  and  more  cooperative  and 
equitable world could be achieved”. 
A  few  months  later  he  would  deliver  an  unforgettable 
speech to the First Committee of the General Assembly 
that  captured  the  imagination  of  delegations  and  set 
in  motion  a  15-year  process  that  culminated  in  the 
adoption  of  the  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  in 
1982.
In  his  memorable  speech  in  1967,  Ambassador 
Pardo  started  by  explaining  why  Malta,  three  years 
after  its  independence,  had  submitted  a  new  agenda 
item  entitled  “Examination  of  the  question  of  the 
reservation  exclusively  for  peaceful  purposes  of  the 
seabed and the ocean f loor, and of the subsoil thereof, 
underlying  the  high  seas  beyond  the  limits  of  present 
national  jurisdiction,  and  the  use  of  their  resources  in 
the interests of mankind”. He stated that 
“[t]he  Maltese  Islands  are  situated  in  the  centre 
of  the  Mediterranean.  We  are  naturally  vitally 
12-63631
5
A/67/PV.49
interested  in  the  sea  which  surrounds  us  and 
through  which  we  live  and  breathe. We  have  been 
following  closely  for  some  time  developments  in 
the  field  of  oceanography  and  deep  sea  capability 
and have been impressed by the potential benefits 
both to our country and to mankind if technological 
progress takes place in a peaceful atmosphere and 
within a just legal framework” (A/C.1/PV.1515).
Ambassador  Pardo  concluded  his  statement  by 
expressing  the  hope  that  the  General  Assembly  would 
adopt  a  resolution  embodying  a  number  of  concepts, 
including that 
“the  seabed  and  the  ocean  f loor  are  a  common 
heritage  of  mankind  and  should  be  used  and 
exploited for peaceful purposes and for the exclusive 
benefit of mankind as a whole” (A/C.1/PV.1516)
The  impact  of  Malta’s  initiative  on  the  General 
Assembly  was  perhaps  best  captured  by  Evan  Luard, 
a  British  delegate  at  the  time  who,  in  his  book  The 
Control of the Sea Bed, wrote as follows: 
“There  is  no  doubt  that  the  Maltese  initiative, 
and  Dr.  Pardo’s  speech  in  particular,  made  a 
profound impact on the Assembly. In the delegates’ 
lounge, the spacious bar and smoking room where 
the  delegates  congregate  between  meetings, 
conversations  tended  to  centre  on  the  Maltese 
initiative.  In  the  innumerable  and  interminable 
cocktail  parties,  representatives  would  ask  one 
another  how  their  Government  would  react  to  Dr. 
Pardo’s proposals. There was a general feeling that 
the  United  Nations  had  here  become  involved  in 
a  new  subject,  of  profound  importance  but  great 
complexity and fascination, which would command 
the  attention  of  delegates  and  officials  for  many 
years to come.”
On 7 November 1967, Ambassador Pardo informed 
the  Committee  that  agreement  had  been  reached  on 
a  draft  resolution,  which  was  subsequently  adopted 
by  the  First  Committee  on  8  December  1967  by  a 
recorded  vote  of  93  votes  in  favour,  nine  against  and 
one abstaining. A few days later, on 18 December 1967, 
resolution  2340  (XXII)  was  adopted  by  the  General 
Assembly,  this  time  by  consensus.  On  that  occasion 
Ambassador Pardo stated that the resolution was
“an expression of the collective sense of responsibility 
of all States for the vast expanse of the ocean beds. 
It is a sound beginning, an indispensable first step 
towards  effective  international  cooperation  in  the 
exploration,  exploitation  and  use  of  the  seabed 
and  the  ocean  f loor.  While  the  draft  resolution  is 
a sound beginning, we are only at the initial stage 
of our task. Principles must be formulated, a treaty 
must be negotiated” (A/PV.1639, paras. 26-27).
Those  statements  by  Ambassador  Pardo,  45  years 
ago,  unquestionably  revolutionized  the  thinking  of 
politicians,  jurists,  scientists  and  diplomats  alike. 
Ambassador  Tommy  Koh  of  Singapore,  President  of 
the Third United Nations Conference of the Law of the 
Sea, whom we are privileged to have among us today, 
described Ambassador Pardo’s contribution in this way:
“Arvid  Pardo  contributed  two  seminal  ideas 
to  our  work:  first,  that  the  resources  of  the  deep 
seabed constitute the common heritage of mankind, 
and  second,  that  all  aspects  of  ocean  space  are 
interrelated  and  should  be  treated  as  an  integral 
whole.”
President  Koh  had  described  the  Convention  as  a 
constitution  for  the  oceans.  The  Convention,  he  said, 
is a unique instrument, a tool to promote international 
solidarity in a new area as yet little known to man and 
where  the  genius  of  man  will  not  fail  to  unfold  the 
various mysteries of oceans and seas.
As  Ambassador  Pardo  pursued  the  Maltese  move, 
as  some  called  it,  a  number  of  delegations  at  the  time 
considered his initiative far too ambitious. Yet, despite 
resistance to his ideas on the part of some of the major 
Powers,  Ambassador  Pardo  persisted  in  his  objective, 
and while not entirely satisfied with the end result, he 
was  pleased  to  see  the  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the  Law  of  the  Sea  opened  for  signature  in  Montego 
Bay on 10 December 1982. 
Mr.  Pardo  always  understood  that  great  political 
power was the privilege of the few, but that the power 
of  valuable  ideas  was  within  everyone’s  reach  and, 
with  perseverance,  courage  and  conviction,  could  be 
achieved.  From  very  early  in  his  career,  Arvid  Pardo 
was a firm believer in science and technology and their 
limitless  potential.  He  was  also  conscious  that  they 
could  cause  immeasurable  disruption  to  our  planet 
and  bring  about  intolerable  conditions,  even  without 
a  major  war.  In  that  regard,  he  always  saw  a  role  for 
the United Nations in harnessing various activities, in 
order  to  ensure  that  they  would  be  channelled  for  the 
well-being of mankind and not for its destruction.
6 
12-63631
The  international  community  owes  a  debt  of 
gratitude  to  visionaries  such  as  Ambassador  Arvid 
Pardo, who self lessly pursue noble goals in the quest for 
a peaceful, fairer and more prosperous world. The late 
environmentalist  Elisabeth  Mann  Borgese  described 
him  as  one  of  the  great  men  of  the  twentieth  century, 
who contributed decisively to shaping the world of the 
twenty-first. The vision set out in 1967 by Arvid Pardo 
continues  to  inspire  discussion  today,  and  the  concept 
of  the  common  heritage  of  mankind  extends  itself 
to  areas  other  than  the  oceans,  including  our  global 
environment and outer space.
With  gratitude,  Malta  is  proud  to  recognize  the 
historic  contribution  made  by  Ambassador  Arvid 
Pardo  in  the  context  of  the  oceans,  which  earned  him 
the well-deserved title of “Father of the Law of the Sea 
Conference”, and wishes to reaffirm the determination 
he expressed in 1967 that
“at  least  on  the  ocean  f loor  we  must  not  betray 
our  sacred  trust,  and  we  must  hand  on  this  area, 
the  very  wellspring  of  life  on  this  small  planet  of 
ours, unimpaired to our children and our children’s 
children” (A/PV.1639, para. 27).
The Acting President: I call on the representative 
of  the  Central  African  Republic,  who  will  speak  on 
behalf of the Group of African States.
Mr. Doubane (Central African Republic) (spoke in 
French):  I  have  the  honour  to  take  the  f loor  on  behalf 
of  the  Group  of  African  States  on  the  occasion  of  the 
special  commemorative  event  that  brings  us  together 
today. This year marks an important stage in the history 
of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the 
Sea  (UNCLOS),  in  that  it  commemorates  the  thirtieth 
anniversary of the signing of the original Convention. It 
is appropriate to recall here that, when the Convention 
was  opened  for  signature  in  Jamaica’s  second  city, 
Montego  Bay,  on  10  December  1982,  a  record  117 
countries  were  recorded  as  signatories,  the  largest 
number ever achieved for a treaty on its first day.
The  African  Group  welcomes  the  adoption  of 
resolution  67/5,  dedicating  two  plenary  meetings  to 
commemorating the signing of the Convention. We also 
applaud the other events to be held in order to improve 
understanding  of  the  Convention  and  the  benefits  it 
offers all humankind. The Convention is considered to 
be  one  of  most  comprehensive  legal  instruments  ever 
negotiated under the auspices of the United Nations. It 
serves as the main legal framework by which everyone 
A/67/PV.49
can  share  in  the  development  of  the  planet’s  greatest 
resource,  the  oceans  and  seas,  which  cover  more  than 
two-thirds of the earth’s surface. The law of the sea also 
provides  for  the  use  of  deep-sea  mineral  resources  as 
the common heritage of humankind.
The  growing  list  of  States  parties  to  the  United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea testifies to its 
relevance and importance and brings us a little closer to 
the ultimate goal of its universality. The African Group 
continues  to  hope  that  that  goal  will  soon  be  reached. 
Today, 30 years later, the number of States parties to the 
Convention has reached 162. Over time, it has become 
a guide that enables us to regulate the use of the Earth’s 
oceans, the maritime borders that have been delimited 
and various maritime border delimitation disputes that 
have  been  resolved  thanks  to  application  of  the  rules 
the Convention provides.
The  African  Group  recognizes  that  the  oceans, 
seas and coastal zones are an integral component of the 
earth’s ecosystem, that they are essential to maintaining 
that ecosystem, and that international law, as ref lected 
in  the  Convention,  provides  an  appropriate  legal 
framework for the conservation and sustainable use of 
oceans and their resources. In that regard, we emphasize 
the  importance  of  the  conservation  and  sustainable 
use  of  the  seas  and  oceans,  and  of  their  resources,  for 
sustainable  development,  including  by  contributing 
to  poverty  eradication,  sustained  economic  growth, 
food  security,  the  creation  of  sustainable  livelihoods 
and  decent  work,  while  at  the  same  time  protecting 
biodiversity  and  the  marine  environment  and  dealing 
with the effects of climate change.
the  Convention, 
Highlighting  some  of  the  recent  achievements 
made  under 
the  African  States 
welcome the historic advisory opinion rendered by the 
Seabed Disputes Chamber of the International Tribunal 
for  the  Law  of  the  Sea  regarding  Responsibilities  and 
obligations of States sponsoring persons and entities with 
respect  to  activities  in  the  Area.  The  advisory  opinion 
explains the nature and scope of States’ responsibilities 
and obligations and gives guidelines for the appropriate 
measures they are required to take.
As  a  principle  of  international  law,  the  concept 
of  the  common  heritage  of  humankind  means  that 
the  territorial  zones  and  hereditary  resources  from 
that  heritage  must  be  used  in  a  sustainable  way,  in 
the  interest  of  all  of  humanity,  and  be  protected  from 
exploitation  by  Member  States  individually  or  in 
12-63631
7
A/67/PV.49
groups. To that end, the African Group is unshakeable 
in  its  belief  that  the  Convention  must  be  the  basis  for 
the law of the sea. The Convention has stood the test of 
time, largely because it has f lexibility, such that it can 
respond to new challenges that arise in the maintenance 
and development of the law of the sea. 
Strengthening  capacities  is  important  to  States, 
especially  developing  countries  in  Africa,  so  as  to 
maximize their use of the oceans and maritime resources. 
That  is  why  they  must  fulfil  the  obligations  deriving 
from the Convention and connected documents. Africa 
reiterates the need to provide the means for developing 
States to strengthen their capacities in matters relating 
to the Convention.
take 
this  opportunity 
As  African  countries,  we  are  highly  aware  of  the 
importance of the oceans and seas to our development. 
We 
to  acknowledge  and 
appreciate  for  their  true  worth  contributions  to  the 
special  allocation  funds  established  through  various 
bodies of the Convention, which have made it possible 
for us, as developing African countries, to take part in 
the activities of those bodies.
To conclude, I reiterate that African States parties 
wish  to  renew  their  commitment  to  fully  implement 
UNCLOS,  in  good  faith  and  responsibility,  and  to 
respect the legitimate rights of coastal States parties in 
their  territorial  waters,  exclusive  economic  zones  and 
continental shelf areas, as provided for in the Convention. 
They  pledge  to  cooperate  fully  in  promoting  marine 
scientific  research,  maximizing  the  use  of  biological 
resources,  conserving  the  marine  environment  and 
managing international marine resources in the interest 
of humankind.
The Acting President: I call on the representative 
of the Republic of Korea, who will speak on behalf of 
the Group of Asia-Pacific States.
Mr.  Kim  Sook  (Republic  of  Korea):  I  have 
the  honour  to  address  the  General  Assembly  in  my 
capacity  as  Chair  of  the  Group  of  Asia-Pacific  States. 
At  the  outset,  I  would  like  to  pay  a  special  tribute  to 
the  late  Ambassador  Arvid  Pardo  of  Malta.  Without 
his  remarkable  contribution  to  the  development  of  the 
international  law  of  the  sea,  today’s  event  would  not 
have been possible. Let me also pay tribute to the late 
Ambassador  Hamilton  Shirley  Amerasinghe  of  Sri 
Lanka,  who  served  as  President  of  the  Third  United 
Nations  Conference  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  from  its 
first  to  its  ninth  session.  I  would  also  like  to  convey 
our  special  thanks  to  Ambassador  Tommy  Koh  of 
Singapore,  whose  outstanding  skills  as  President  of 
the  Conference  were  indispensable  as  the  Convention 
came  into  being  and  whose  speech  this  morning  was 
as  impressive  as  ever.  Let  me  also  convey  my  sincere 
gratitude to the Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law 
of the Sea for its contribution to the convening of this 
special meeting.
Since humankind ﬁ rst set forth out upon the deeper 
seas, the issue of sovereign control over the oceans has 
been  an  ongoing  concern.  The  urgent  need  for  a  new 
international public order for the ocean was recognized 
as  early  as  the  1930s.  Some  progress  was  made  in  the 
first  two  United  Nations  Conferences  on  the  Law  of 
the  Sea,  in  1958  and  1960,  towards  establishing  an 
agreed set of rules on maritime jurisdiction. However, 
the results of those Conferences were rather limited in 
terms of their universal acceptance.
Against  that  backdrop,  the  Third  United  Nations 
Conference on the Law of the Sea began. As we are well 
aware, after nine years of tough negotiations, the United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea was opened 
for signature precisely 30 years ago today. That marked 
the culmination of a decade of hard work, involving the 
participation of a large number of countries across the 
globe.
The  Convention  has  since  resolved  a  number  of 
critical  issues,  even  those  that  had  proved  elusive  and 
contentious for centuries. For example, the Convention 
settles  once  and  for  all  the  breadth  of  the  territorial 
sea  at  12  nautical  miles.  It  also  accords  coastal  States 
resource  jurisdiction  in  a  200  nautical  mile  exclusive 
economic  zone.  The  Convention  declares  the  mineral 
resources of the seabed beyond national jurisdiction to 
be the common heritage of mankind. Lastly, it provides 
machinery for the settlement of disputes.
Yet 
to 
threats 
there  are  challenges  and 
the 
world  public  order.  Indeed,  there  are  many.  First  of 
all,  old  problems  have  become  more  serious.  They 
include  degradation  of  the  marine  environment  and 
overexploitation  of  resources.  As  far  as  the  marine 
environment  is  concerned,  I  wish  to  draw  attention  to 
the  fact  that,  since  the  adoption  of  the  Convention,  an 
exciting amount of progress has been made through the 
1992  Earth  Summit,  held  in  Rio  de  Janeiro;  the  2002 
World  Summit  on  Sustainable  Development,  held  in 
Johannesburg; and the 2012 United Nations Conference 
on Sustainable Development, held in Rio de Janeiro this 
8 
12-63631
A/67/PV.49
year.  Those  Conferences  have  made  us  increasingly 
aware of the importance of global marine environment 
issues.
Furthermore,  the  world  we  live  in  now  is  very 
different from that of 1982. Then, many of the problems 
we  now  face  could  not  have  been  anticipated.  New 
challenges  are  emerging,  however,  such  as  climate 
change and the need to protect marine biodiversity. In 
order  to  deal  with  those  issues,  we  need  to  continue 
to  make  the  utmost  effort  to  further  strengthen 
cooperation. That must be done not only regionally but 
also globally.
anniversary  of  the  opening  for  signature  of  the  1982 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.
Exactly  30  years  ago  in  Montego  Bay,  Jamaica, 
the Convention, which is now rightly referred to as the 
constitution  of  the  oceans,  was  opened  for  signature. 
With the vast number of legal provisions governing all 
aspects  of  the  ocean  area  and  marine  issues,  ranging 
from  navigational  rights,  maritime  limits  and  marine 
scientific research to marine environmental protection 
and  dispute  settlement,  the  Convention  stands  as  the 
symbol  of  unprecedented  efforts  to  codify  and  to 
advance international law.
I would like to take this opportunity to recall that 
in  the  “Future  we  want”  statement  (resolution  66/288, 
annex), adopted at Rio, we recognized the importance 
of the Convention on the Law of the Sea to advancing 
sustainable development and its near-universal adoption 
by States. The Convention is a living document, which 
lends itself to the further development of the law of the 
sea.
I am pleased to report that, during this year, there 
were several activities in our region organized by Asia-
Pacific States to commemorate the thirtieth anniversary 
of UNCLOS. In particular, important conferences were 
held in Dhaka, Beijing, Tokyo and Yeosu, Republic of 
Korea, to mark the occasion.
In  conclusion,  the  Convention,  which  is  often 
referred  to  as  “the  constitution  for  the  oceans”,  has 
served the goal of regulating ocean use by humankind 
for  the  past  30  years.  Since  the  Convention  entered 
into  force  in  1994,  the  number  of  States  parties  or 
entities  has  grown  steadily  to  164  as  of  today.  Now, 
many  aspects  of  its  provisions  are  widely  regarded  as 
ref lecting customary international law, so that they are 
legally binding on all States. 
On  behalf  of  the  Group  of  Asia-Pacific  States, 
I  am  pleased  to  express  my  belief  that  in  tackling 
such  challenges  as  the  degradation  of  the  marine 
environment and the overexploitation of resources, the 
prominent  role  that  the  Convention  has  played  to  date 
will continue to grow for another 30 years to come.
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  f loor  to  the 
representative of Georgia, who will speak on behalf of 
the Group of Eastern European States.
Mr.  Makharoblishvili  (Georgia):  It  is  my  honour 
to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Group  of  Eastern  European 
States on the occasion of commemorating the thirtieth 
The  historic  third  United  Nations  Conference 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  which  lasted  for  nine  years, 
was  extraordinary  in  terms  of  both  its  content  and 
its  procedure.  In  addition  to  providing  a  basic  legal 
framework  for  issues  pertinent  to  its  parties,  in  many 
aspects the Convention ref lects customary international 
law.  The  concepts  of  the  territorial  sea,  contiguous 
zone,  exclusive  economic  zone  and  continental  shelf, 
as  well  as  the  provisions  concerning  marine  scientific 
research  and  the  protection  and  preservation  of  the 
marine  environment,  in  addition  to  other  issues,  have 
become  indispensable  to  cooperation  among  modern 
States.
On this solemn occasion, we pay homage to the late 
Ambassador of Malta, Mr. Arvid Pardo. His landmark 
speech  in  1967,  wherein  he  introduced  the  concept  of 
the common heritage of humankind with regard to the 
mineral  resources  of  the  seabed,  paved  the  way  for  a 
common approach to those resources beyond the limits 
of national jurisdiction and for the further development 
of  key  principles 
the  area.  His  outstanding 
contribution to that end will always be cherished.
in 
The  strong  institutional  framework  established  by 
the  Convention,  together  with  its  three  main  bodies, 
the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea,  the 
International  Seabed  Authority  and  the  Commission 
on the Limits of the Continental Shelf, is of paramount 
importance  in  ensuring  the  adjudication  of  disputes 
arising  out  of  the  interpretation  and  application  of  the 
Convention,  in  organizing  and  controlling  activities 
in  the  area  that  shall  be  carried  out  for  the  benefit 
of  humankind  as  a  whole,  and  in  considering  claims 
concerning  the  outer  limits  of  the  continental  shelf 
where those limits extend beyond 200 miles.
With  164  parties,  the  Convention  on  the  Law  of 
the  Sea  has  already  achieved  a  universal  and  unified 
12-63631
9
A/67/PV.49
character.  At  the  same  time,  we  hope  that  States 
that  have  not  yet  done  so  will  become  parties  to  the 
Convention  and  its  implementing  agreements  in  order 
to achieve the goal of universal participation. We urge 
all  parties  to  fully  implement  their  obligations  under 
the Convention.
We  stress  the  need  for  enhanced  security  in  the 
world’s oceans and off its coasts. We remain concerned 
about transnational organized crimes committed at sea, 
including piracy and armed robbery, as well as the issue 
of impunity for the perpetrators of such acts.
The Convention has enormous signiﬁ cance in terms 
of advancing sustainable development. During the past 
30 years much has been achieved to that end. However, 
we remain mindful that more needs to be done in order 
to  ensure  the  conservation  and  sustainable  use  of  the 
oceans  and  seas  and  of  their  resources  for  sustainable 
development. The health of oceans and the maintenance 
of marine biodiversity are negatively affected by, inter 
alia,  marine  pollution.  In  that  regard,  we  welcome the 
“Oceans  Compact:  Healthy  Oceans  for  Prosperity” 
initiative launched by the Secretary-General. 
The  preservation  and  management  of  fish  stocks 
remains of the utmost importance. To ensure sustainable 
fisheries, we need to be guided by the precautionary and 
ecosystem approaches to the conservation, management 
and exploitation of fish stocks. We should work to that 
end within the relevant regional fisheries management 
organizations. We should enhance our efforts to address 
current  challenges,  such  as  illegal,  unreported  or 
unregulated fishing, the lack of protection of the world’s 
deep waters, including the conservation and sustainable 
use  of  marine  biodiversity  in  areas  beyond  national 
jurisdiction,  threats  posed  by  ocean  acidification  and 
the  need  for  international  agreement  on  the  proposed 
moratorium on shark finning. Stronger cooperation and 
further  capacity-building  are  paramount  to  sustaining 
and maintaining the limited resources of the oceans and 
seas.
Finally,  let  me  conclude  by  reiterating  that  our 
Group remains committed to the Convention on the Law 
of the Sea and welcomes the pre-eminent contribution 
provided  by  the  Convention  to  the  strengthening  of 
peace,  security,  cooperation  and  friendly  relations 
among  nations  and  the  sustainable  development  of 
oceans and seas.
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  f loor  to  the 
representative of Canada, who will speak on behalf of 
the Group of Western European and other States.
Mr. Rishchynski (Canada): I have the honour, and 
am  personally  delighted,  to  speak  on  behalf  of  States 
members of the Group of Western European and other 
States.  We  are  here  to  mark  the  thirtieth  anniversary 
of  the  opening  for  signature  of  the  United  Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS)  on 
10  December  1982  in  Montego  Bay,  Jamaica,  at  the 
conclusion  of  the  third  United  Nations  Conference  on 
the Law of the Sea. The Conference was an enormous 
and  highly  complex  endeavour,  and  the  Convention  is 
the  culmination  of  many  years  of  effort  by  more  than 
150 States. Today, we especially recognize the crucial 
role played by Ambassador Arvid Pardo of Malta and, 
in particular, the visionary speech that he delivered on 
1 November 1967.
The  Convention  is  exceptional  owing  to  its  scope 
and  the  comprehensiveness  of  the  legal  regime  that 
it  establishes  for  the  use  of  the  world’s  oceans  and 
seas.  The  Convention  provides  a  framework  for  many 
aspects of ocean governance, ranging from navigation 
to marine pollution and from dispute settlement to the 
management of living and non-living marine resources.
Of  particular  note  is  the  Convention’s  successful 
blend of zonal and functional approaches, its balance of 
rights and obligations and its gathering of coastal States, 
f lag States and landlocked States under one overarching 
instrument. That was achieved by recognizing that, like 
the oceans themselves, ocean issues are interrelated. Of 
enduring and fundamental importance is the system of 
maritime  zones  established  by  the  Convention,  with 
distinctive legal features. In that regard, I note that the 
creation  of  the  exclusive  economic  zone  clarified  the 
scope of the rights and the jurisdiction of coastal States 
under international law.
(spoke in French)
Those  are  only  some  of  the  crucial  aspects  of 
the  Convention’s  indisputable  contribution  to  peace, 
security and the rule of law. In that regard, we also note 
the significant contribution of the International Tribunal 
for the Law of the Sea, together with the International 
Court of Justice, to the peaceful settlement of disputes 
concerning  the  law  of  the  sea  and  the  contribution  of 
the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf 
to  a  methodical  approach  to  defining  the  relationship 
between the continental shelf and the area. The work of 
10 
12-63631
A/67/PV.49
those  bodies,  such  as  that  of  the  International  Seabed 
Authority, promotes predictability and clarity in marine 
areas and helps maintain a stable world order. 
The Convention has also helped to better focus the 
efforts  of  existing  international  organizations,  such 
as  the  International  Maritime  Organization  (IMO), 
and  to  give  them  new  impetus.  In  accordance  with 
the  principles  set  out  in  the  Convention,  the  IMO  has 
since  focused  on,  among  other  issues,  waste  disposal, 
ballast  water  and  invasive  species.  It  has  also  applied 
its  specialized  skills  in  order  to  improve  maritime 
security and navigation standards. That is an essential 
task owing to the importance of maritime transport to 
our global prosperity.
(spoke in English)
yet done so to become parties to UNCLOS as soon as 
possible.
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  f loor  to  the 
representative  of  the  United  States  of  America,  who 
will speak on behalf of the host country.
Mrs.  DiCarlo  (United  States  of  America):  On 
behalf  of  the  host  country,  I  have  the  honour  to  help 
commemorate the thirtieth anniversary of the opening 
for  signature  of  the  1982  United  Nations  Convention 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  The  Convention  sets  forth  a 
comprehensive  legal  framework  governing  the  use  of 
the  oceans.  The  world  has  benefited  greatly  from  the 
adoption  and  entry  into  force  of  the  Convention,  and 
the  United  States  continues  to  support  the  balance  of 
interests ref lected in that remarkable agreement.
While  we  can  be  proud  of  the  achievements  of 
Montego Bay, the intervening years have demonstrated 
that  the  full  and  effective  implementation  of  the 
Convention has not yet been achieved and that we still 
have  work  ahead  of  us.  For  example,  as  evidence  of 
illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated  fishing  shows,  we 
must do a better job as f lag States to complement actions 
taken by coastal and port States. The preservation and 
protection of the marine environment will undoubtedly 
figure  as  one  of  the  main  priorities  for  many  years  to 
come.
It  is  worth  recalling  the  time  before  the  1982 
Convention,  when  there  were  fundamental  questions 
about States’ rights and obligations with respect to the 
oceans. The Convention on the Law of the Sea resolved 
those  questions.  For  example,  it  established  for  the 
first  time  the  maximum  breadth  of  the  territorial  sea. 
In  addition,  it  provided  for  exclusive  jurisdiction  of 
coastal States over economic activities out to 200 miles 
from  shore,  and  it  set  forth  a  procedure  to  maximize 
legal  certainty  regarding  the  extent  of  the  continental 
shelf. 
We must also support the efforts of institutions to 
better  coordinate  in  accordance  with  their  respective 
mandates  given  by  Member  States.  Given  the  broad-
based,  wide-ranging  and  interconnected  nature  of 
ocean  activities,  coordination  is  needed  not  only  at 
the  international  level  but  also  at  the  bilateral  and 
regional levels. Better integration among a wide range 
of actors constitutes a valuable objective to advance the 
collective oceans governance agenda. 
(spoke in French)
Over the next 30 years and beyond, it is inevitable 
that we will have to meet other challenges. We remain 
hopeful nonetheless that, given the importance of what 
is  it  stake,  we  will  find  a  consensus  on  how  best  to 
address those challenges and how to protect the oceans 
for the benefit of future generations.
(spoke in English)
In  conclusion,  with 
the  goal  of  universal 
participation  in  sight,  we  call  on  States  that  have  not 
Together  with  the  1994  Agreement  relating  to 
the  implementation  of  Part  XI  of  the  United  Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December 
1982, and the 1995 Agreement for the Implementation 
of  the  Provisions  of  the  United  Nations  Convention 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  of  10  December  1982  relating 
to  the  Conservation  and  Management  of  Straddling 
Fish  Stocks  and  Highly  Migratory  Fish  Stocks,  the 
Convention provides public order in the world’s oceans. 
It codifies critical provisions of freedom of navigation, 
including those relating to transit and innocent passage, 
which  enable  vessels  to  transit  the  entire  maritime 
domain,  thus  ensuring  the  mobility  on  which  our 
international trade and global economy depend. It is the 
foundation on which rules for sustainable international 
fisheries are based, and it provides the legal framework 
for  exploring  and  exploiting  mineral  resources  on  and 
beneath the seabed beyond areas of national jurisdiction. 
Today, 
the  Convention’s 
institutions  are  up 
and  running.  The  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the 
Continental  Shelf  has  received  over  60  submissions 
and  is  making  significant  progress  in  providing 
12-63631
11
A/67/PV.49
recommendations  to  coastal  States.  The  International 
Seabed  Authority  has  developed  regulations  on  deep 
seabed  mineral  exploration  and  has  issued  contracts 
for such exploration. The International Tribunal for the 
Law  of  the  Sea  serves  as  an  important  forum  for  the 
peaceful resolution of disputes. 
Of course, we continue to face many challenges in 
and  on  the  oceans,  including  those  related  to  illegal, 
unreported  and  unregulated 
fishing,  destructive 
fishing practices, pollution, acidification, conservation, 
sustainable  uses  of  maritime  resources,  and  maritime 
security. But we are confident that those challenges can 
and will be addressed on the basis of the Convention’s 
framework.
I  wish  to  reaffirm  President  Obama’s  strong 
support  for  the  accession  of  the  United  States  to  the 
Convention on the Law of the Sea and to confirm that 
Secretary  Clinton  has  made  the  treaty  a  priority.  We 
continue to regard much of the Convention as ref lective 
of customary international law, but also fully recognize 
the security and economic benefits of becoming a party.
To conclude, it gives me great pleasure to celebrate 
the thirtieth anniversary of the opening for signature of 
the Convention on the Law of the Sea, a historic event 
in international maritime law.
The Acting President: I call on the representative 
of Monaco, who will speak in her capacity as President 
of  the  twenty-second  Meeting  of  States  Parties  to  the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea.
Ms.  Picco  (Monaco),  President  of  the  twenty-
second Meeting of States Parties to the United Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  (spoke  in  French): 
I  have  the  honour  to  address  the  Assembly  on  the 
thirtieth anniversary of the opening for signature of the 
United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea in my 
capacity as President of the twenty-second Meeting of 
States Parties to the Convention.
With  today’s  plenary  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly,  we  celebrate  with  due  recognition  a 
foundational legal instrument for the law of the sea and 
international  law.  On  8  June  2012,  World  Ocean  Day, 
the twenty-second Meeting of States Parties adopted the 
Declaration on the thirtieth anniversary of the opening 
for signature of the United Nations Convention on the 
Law of the Sea. It bears stressing that all parties were 
represented at the twenty-second meeting.
By that act, the Meeting of States Parties recognized 
the historic importance of the Convention as a notable 
contribution  to  peacekeeping,  justice  and  the  progress 
of  all  the  world’s  people.  The  Declaration  also  recalls 
the  decisive  role  played  by  Arvid  Pardo,  Ambassador 
of  Malta,  and  pays  homage  to  the  negotiators  of  the 
Convention,  who  came  from  a  wide  range  of  States  to 
participate  in  the  third  United  Nations  Convention  on 
the Law of the Sea, and to all those who contributed to 
its  adoption  and  entry  into  force,  and  who  worked  for 
its  universality.  Through  the  Declaration,  the  Meeting 
of  the  States  Parties  welcomes  the  progress  made  by 
the  International  Seabed  Authority,  the  International 
Tribunal for the Law of the Sea and the Commission on 
the Limits of the Continental Shelf — the three organs 
established by the Convention.
Starting  with  the  60  States  parties  at  the  first 
Meeting  of  States  Parties  in  1994,  the  Convention 
today  counts  164  parties  from  every  region  of  the 
world,  including  163  States  and  the  European  Union. 
Over the years and through successive Presidents, each 
Meeting has worked to build the institutional structure 
of the International Seabed Authority, the International 
Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea  and  the  Commission 
on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf  by  providing 
them  with  the  resources  to  implement  their  respective 
mandates.  Each  of 
is  contributing 
effectively  and  harmoniously  to  implementing  the 
provisions of the Convention. 
those  bodies 
Ms.  Flores  (Honduras),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
The 
International  Seabed  Authority,  whose 
primary  function  is  to  manage  the  mineral  resources 
of  the  seabed,  which  constitute  a  common  heritage  of 
humankind,  has  seen  a  large  increase  in  its  activities 
and  has  issued  17  active  exploratory  contracts  in  that 
area to date. On 14 March, the Tribunal, which is seized 
of  19  cases,  rendered  its  first  judgement  on  maritime 
delimitation.  The  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the 
Continental Shelf has received 61 requests with respect 
to setting the outer limits of the continental shelf, and 
the Meetings of States Parties are devoting the closest 
attention to their increasing workload. 
The  representatives  of  Fiji,  Argentina,  Austria, 
Senegal,  Slovakia,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Chile,  New 
Zealand,  Poland,  Sierra  Leone,  Cyprus,  Jamaica, 
Ukraine,  Mauritius,  Indonesia  and  Saint  Vincent  and 
the Grenadines all had the honour of holding this post 
12 
12-63631
before the Principality of Monaco, beginning with the 
entry  into  force  of  the  Convention  on  16  November 
1994.
Be they from coastal or landlocked States, citizens 
throughout  the  world  have  always  turned  to  the  sea 
and  its  resources,  which  are  inextricably  linked  to  the 
development  of  humankind.  The  Convention,  which 
defines the legal framework for all activities involving 
the oceans and the sea, is an indispensable tool for the 
sustainable  social  and  economic  progress  of  all  the 
world’s peoples. 
The Meeting of States Parties and the Commission 
on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf  know  that  they 
can count on the skills and commitment of professionals 
from the Division of Ocean Affairs and the Law of the 
Sea and the Office of Legal Affairs. From this rostrum, 
I therefore express my sincere thanks not only to those 
who are working there today, but to all those who have 
contributed  to  the  success  of  the  Meetings  of  States 
Parties,  as  well  as  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-Moon, 
depositary of the Convention, and his predecessors. 
Let us continue to endorse the words of the President 
of  the  third  United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Law  of 
the  Sea,  Ambassador  Tommy  Koh  of  Singapore,  who, 
on 10 September 1982, said, 
“Today  we  are  celebrating  the  victory  of  the  rule 
of law and the principle of the peaceful settlement 
of  disputes.  We  are  celebrating  human  solidarity 
and  the  reality  of  the  interdependence  between 
nations, which is symbolized by the United Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea.”
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  f loor  to  Mr.  Milan  Meetarbhan,  President  of 
the Assembly of the International Seabed Authority.
Mr. Meetarban (International Seabed Authority): I 
have the honour to address this meeting celebrating the 
thirtieth anniversary of the United Nations Convention 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS)  as  President  of  the 
Assembly of the International Seabed Authority (ISA). 
It is apt that we use the term “celebrate” and not merely 
“commemorate”, as there is much to celebrate about the 
adoption of UNCLOS. 
The  1982  Convention  was  acclaimed  as  a  new 
constitution  for  the  oceans.  Not  only  did  it  provide 
a  new  international  legal  order  for  the  oceans,  but  it 
was  in  fact  one  of  the  milestones  in  the  establishment 
of  a  new  international  economic  order.  It  was  also  a 
A/67/PV.49
milestone in the history of economic cooperation. The 
Secretary-General  of  that  time,  Mr.  Javier  Pérez  de 
Cuéllar, said, following the adoption of the Convention, 
that international law had been irrevocably transformed. 
On behalf of the Assembly of the International Seabed 
Authority, I want to pay tribute to all those who worked 
so  hard  to  ensure  a  successful  outcome  for  the  third 
United Nations Conference on the Law of the Sea and 
the adoption of UNCLOS 30 years ago. 
Though  the  Convention  codified  some  of  the 
customary rules of international law, it also contained 
many  new  substantive  revisions  on  the  governance  of 
the oceans. The negotiations leading to the adoption of 
UNCLOS  will  be  remembered  not  only  for  a  number 
of  innovative,  substantive  provisions,  but  also  for  a 
number  of  procedural  innovations,  which  enabled  the 
reconstituted  international  community  that  emerged 
from the wave of decolonization in the 1950s and 1960s 
to  work  together  on  a  new  international  order  for  the 
oceans. The manner in which the package-deal concept 
and  the  search  for  consensus  inf luenced  the  course  of 
negotiations and the ultimate outcome of the negotiations 
was 
diplomacy 
procedures.  Gathering  in  New  York  to  celebrate  the 
anniversary of the Convention, we cannot but celebrate 
in  particular  the  adoption  in  an  international  treaty  of 
the  concept  of  the  common  heritage  of  mankind  and 
the  establishment  of  its  appurtenant  legal  regime  and 
implementing agency. 
in  multilateral 
unprecedented 
to 
Article 136 of the Convention will remain one of the 
landmarks of legal drafting of international instruments 
by  virtue  of  its  simplicity,  as  well  as  its  unambiguous 
affirmation  of  a  commitment 
international 
cooperation  and  equity.  Article  136  simply  states  that 
the Area and its resources are the common heritage of 
mankind — the Area, of course, having been defined as 
the seabed and ocean f loor and subsoil thereof beyond 
the limits of national jurisdiction. In one simple, short, 
yet  unequivocal  and  profoundly  meaningful  sentence, 
the  international  community  had  changed  forever  the 
governance of the oceans and, indeed, the international 
legal order itself. The concept of the common heritage 
of  humankind  was  not  new,  but  for  the  first  time  an 
international  treaty  had  recognized  its  application 
to  the  oceans  and  also  provided  for  the  international 
mechanism to operationalize the concept. Paragraph 2 
of article 137 of the Convention provides that all rights 
to the resources of the Area are vested in mankind as a 
whole, on whose behalf the Authority shall act. 
12-63631
13
A/67/PV.49
lays  down 
The  Convention  specifically 
the 
principle that activities in the Area shall be carried out 
for  the  benefit  of  humankind  as  a  whole,  and  requires 
the  Authority  to  provide  appropriate  mechanisms  for 
the  equitable  sharing  of  financial  and  other  economic 
benefits derived from activities in the Area. In doing so, 
the Convention also outlaws the exercise of sovereignty 
or  sovereign  rights  over  any  part  of  the  Area  or  its 
resources and the appropriation of any part of the Area 
by any State or natural or juridical person.
The concept of the common heritage of humankind 
and  its  operationalization  with  regard  to  the  oceans  is 
one of the most significant intellectual advantages of the 
twentieth century. Thirty years after this giant step for 
humankind, the International Seabed Authority, which 
is  charged  with  overseeing  the  implementation  of  this 
new international regime, has accomplished significant 
progress,  with  the  commitment  of  the  States  parties 
and under the leadership of its successive Secretaries-
General. 
There are so many firsts associated with UNCLOS 
that  we  cannot  fail  to  mention  that  the  establishment 
of  the  International  Seabed  Authority  and  the  nature 
of the functions given to the Authority were also firsts 
in  international  relations.  International  organizations 
that  had  been  conferred  with  regulatory,  supervisory 
or  technical  functions  since  the  end  of  the  nineteenth 
century were set up largely to exercise those functions 
in relation to existing activities. That was the case, for 
instance, in the fields of post and telecommunications, 
health, agriculture and civil aviation. 
The  ISA,  however,  was  set  up  to  operate  in  a 
non-existent domain, which was itself being created by 
a  treaty.  The  fact  that  the  ISA  was  being  given  both 
regulatory and commercial functions was also unusual 
for  an  intergovernmental  organization.  To  date,  there 
are 12 contractors with licences issued by the Authority, 
which cover three types of deep-sea mineral resources. 
An  endowment  fund  has  been  set  up  to  enable  young 
scientists  from  developing  countries  to  get  involved 
in  deep-sea  research.  Several  universities  and  other 
institutions worldwide support that programme. 
The  full  realization  of  the  objectives  of  the 
international  regime  put  in  place  by  the  Convention 
still has to cope with legal, technological, commercial 
and  sometimes  ideological  challenges.  However,  the 
Convention remains a great monument to the goodwill, 
ingenuity and dedication of some great men and women 
and the political will that States can achieve. 
in 
the  Convention, 
Before  I  conclude,  I  have  to  say  a  word  about 
environmental  protection  and  conservation.  Meeting 
as  we  are  only  six  months  after  the  United  Nations 
Conference on Sustainable Development (Rio+20), we 
have to remind ourselves that although the obligations 
with  respect  to  the  environment  and  conservation 
were  already  established 
the 
Rio+20  outcome  document  (resolution  66/288,  annex) 
expressed concerns about the health of our oceans and 
called  for  the  sustainable  development  of  our  marine 
resources.  As  the  world  gets  ready  to  begin  mining 
operations  on  the  seabed,  which  could  be  of  a  nature 
and  on  a  scale  never  before  witnessed  in  the  history 
of  our  planet,  let  us  all  renew  our  pledge  to  adopt  the 
measures  necessary  to  ensure  the  effective  protection 
of the marine environment from the potential effects of 
activities  being  conducted  under  the  provisions  of  the 
Convention for the benefit of humankind. 
As  we  celebrate  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of  the 
Convention,  the  international  community  is  about  to 
embark  on  a  great  new  venture  —  some  would  say 
adventure — and the United Nations made it possible. 
Let  us  hope  that  all  nations  will  make  of  this  venture 
an exemplar of international cooperation for peace and 
prosperity. The manner in which agreement was reached 
on  UNCLOS  and  the  framework  for  the  governance 
of  the  Area  beyond  national  jurisdiction  laid  down  in 
the  Convention  can  inform  the  discussions  on  matters 
where a new or enhanced international order would be 
in the interests of present and future generations.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  f loor  to  Mr.  Nii  Odunton,  Secretary-General 
of the International Seabed Authority.
Mr.  Odunton  (International  Seabed  Authority): 
Thirty years ago, when the United Nations Convention 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS)  was  opened  for 
signature  in  Montego  Bay,  Jamaica,  there  was  reason 
to  doubt  whether  the  International  Seabed  Authority 
would  ever  come  into  existence.  The  industrialized 
States had made it clear that Part XI of the Convention, 
which  establishes  the  Authority  and  sets  out  the  legal 
framework  for  deep  seabed  mining,  was  unacceptable 
to them and that they would not ratify the Convention 
for  that  reason.  Notwithstanding  the  fact  that  on 
10  December  1982  the  Convention  was  signed  by  119 
delegations,  there  was  considerable  uncertainty  as  to 
14 
12-63631
A/67/PV.49
when,  if  ever,  the  Convention  would  receive  the  60 
ratifications necessary to bring it into force.
Fortunately, the decision was made, in the context 
of  the  Final  Act  of  the  Third  Conference  on  the  Law 
of the Sea (A/CONF.62/121), to establish a Preparatory 
Commission  for  the  International  Seabed  Authority 
and  the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the 
Sea  in  order  to  continue  to  engage  Member  States  in 
discussions  aimed  at  resolving  the  problems  with  Part 
XI in order to allow the Convention to enter into force. 
The  decision  was  also  taken  to  adopt,  as  part  of  the 
Final Act, resolution II, which enabled those States and 
entities that wished to make preparatory investments in 
deep  seabed  mining  to  protect  those  investments  in  a 
manner compatible with the regime established by Part 
XI.
economic 
circumstances  were 
As we know, it took almost 10 years until political 
and 
sufficiently 
conducive to engage key States in negotiations on a legal 
mechanism that would allow adjustments to be made to 
Part XI. As a result of the informal consultations held 
under  the  auspices  of  the  Secretary-General  between 
1991  and  1994,  the  General  Assembly  adopted  in  July 
1994  the  Agreement  relating  to  the  implementation  of 
Part  XI  (resolution  48/263).  The  Agreement  made  it 
possible  for  nearly  all  of  the  States  that  had  objected 
to  Part  XI  in  1982  to  signify  their  intention  to  ratify 
or  accede  to  the  Convention,  which  duly  entered 
into  force  in  November  1994.  The  Authority  was 
established at its seat in Kingston, Jamaica, at the same 
time.  Since  then,  the  number  of  States  parties  to  the 
Convention,  and  thus  members  of  the  Authority,  has 
almost  trebled  to  164,  including  the  European  Union. 
That is a tremendous achievement by any standard and 
represents near-universal acceptance of the Convention 
and the principles contained therein.
As we celebrate 30 years of the Convention, we also 
celebrate 18 years of the existence of the International 
Seabed  Authority.  As  my  contribution  to  this  special 
commemoration  of  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of  the 
opening for signature of the Convention, I wish to offer 
a  comment  on  the  three  major  achievements  of  the 
Authority since the entry into force of the Convention. 
Although the implementation of Part XI has not taken 
place  in  a  way  that  could  have  been  foreseen  in  1982, 
I  wish  to  suggest  that  the  international  community 
has  made  significant  advances  in  implementing  the 
common heritage principle that lies at the core of Part 
XI of the Convention.
independent 
functioning  as  an 
The  first  achievement  of  the  Authority  was  to 
resolve  the  institutional  issues  necessary  to  ensure 
its 
international 
organization.  This  took  several  years.  Indeed,  the 
Authority  did  not  begin  to  function  as  an  autonomous 
organization  until  1997,  three  years  after  the  entry 
into force of the Convention. A great deal of work and 
much  goodwill  on  the  part  of  all  Member  States  were 
needed  in  order  to  agree  on  essential  matters  such 
as  a  headquarters  agreement  with  the  Government 
of  Jamaica,  a  protocol  on  privileges  and  immunities, 
a  relationship  agreement  with  the  United  Nations, 
staff  rules  and  regulations,  and  a  framework  for 
an  administrative  budget  funded  by  Member  State 
contributions  ref lecting  the  evolutionary  approach  to 
the functioning of the Authority called for in the 1994 
Agreement.
During this period also, the General Assembly took 
the decision to accord observer status to the Authority 
and the Tribunal, and on the nature of the relationship 
between the Authority and the Meeting of States Parties 
to the Convention. All those matters involved difficult 
decisions, the consequences of which will last far into 
the  future.  Those  decisions  could  not  have  been  taken 
without  the  consistent  cooperation  and  good  will  of 
Member States, for which I am grateful.
The  second  achievement,  and  the  first  major 
milestone in the life of the Authority as an autonomous 
organization,  was  the  conversion  of  all  the  claims 
to  exploration  sites  registered  under  resolution  II 
into  legally  binding  contracts  of  limited  duration, 
in  accordance  with  the  Convention  and  the  1994 
Agreement.  That  was  achieved  through  the  adoption 
in  2000  of  regulations  governing  exploration  for 
polymetallic  nodules,  which  also  included  standard 
terms  of  contracts.  The  significance  of  that  act  as  far 
as the common heritage principle is concerned cannot 
be overstated. It not only brought the pioneer regime to 
a  definitive  end,  but  also  brought  all  existing  seabed-
mining interests into the single legal regime established 
by the Convention and the 1994 Agreement.
Since  the  adoption  of  the  first  set  of  exploration 
regulations  dealing  with  polymetallic  nodules,  the 
Council  of  the  Authority  has  also  adopted  regulations 
governing prospecting and exploration for polymetallic 
sulphides  and  cobalt-rich  crusts.  That  has  opened  the 
door for claims to be made in respect of resources other 
than  polymetallic  nodules,  which  had  been  the  only 
subject of discussion during the third Conference.
12-63631
15
A/67/PV.49
As a result of this regulatory activity, the Authority 
has  now  approved  a  total  of  17  active  exploration 
contracts. Nine of those contracts were approved in 2011 
and 2012, which represents a dramatic and exponential 
increase of interest in the resources of the deep seabed. 
The exploration area covered by these contracts is more 
than 1 million square kilometres. Contracts have been 
approved  in  the  Pacific,  Indian  and  Atlantic  Oceans. 
Contractors  include  States  parties,  State  enterprises 
sponsored by States parties, and private-sector interests 
sponsored by States parties. Sponsoring States include 
not  only  the  developed,  industrialized  States,  but  also 
developing States taking advantage of the provisions of 
Part XI that were designed to allow them equal access 
to seabed resources.
I  wish  to  acknowledge  the  role  of  the  other 
institutions  established  under  the  Convention  in  that 
expansion  of  activity.  One  of  the  factors  that  has 
certainly  contributed  to  the  expansion  of  licensing 
activity was the advisory opinion of the Seabed Disputes 
Chamber on matters relating to the Responsibilities and 
obligations  of  States  sponsoring  persons  and  entities 
with  respect  to  activities  in  the  in  the  Area,  issued  in 
2011. That prompt and decisive action by the Chamber 
not  only  assisted  greatly  in  clarifying  the  law,  but 
also  demonstrated  that  the  system  provided  for  in 
the  Convention  and  the  1994  Agreement  relating  to 
the  implementation  of  Part  XI  of  the  Convention  was 
responsive, credible and accessible. 
The  third  major  achievement  of  the  Authority 
has  been  to  fulfil  its  mandate  to  protect  the  marine 
environment from the harmful effects of seabed mining. 
While  the  basic  obligation  on  all  States  to  protect  the 
marine  environment  is  contained  in  the  Convention, 
the  obligation  was  elaborated  further  and  given  added 
emphasis in the context of the 1994 Agreement. 
In the development of the regulatory regime since 
1994,  States  have  repeatedly  emphasized  the  need  for 
the  Authority  to  apply  a  precautionary  approach  to 
activities  in  the  Area.  That  is  very  much  ref lected  in 
the  step-by-step  approach  taken  in  the  environmental 
rules adopted by the Authority. The basic scheme of the 
Authority’s regulatory system is to require exploration 
contractors  to  gather  environmental  data  as  their 
activities progress and to make such data available for 
scrutiny  by  the  Legal  and  Technical  Commission  of 
the  Authority.  The  data  so  collected  can  then  be  used 
as  the  basis  for  making  informed  decisions  on  future 
environmental  regulation,  including  environmental 
impact assessments. 
The  Authority  has  also  contributed 
the 
development of better scientific knowledge of the deep-
sea  environment  through  its  international  workshops 
and  the  sharing  of  data,  which  have  enabled  scientists 
from both developed and developing countries to share 
and exchange information.
to 
An  important  achievement  in  2012  was  a  decision 
by  the  Council  of  the  Authority  to  recognize  the 
designation  of  nine  representative  areas 
the 
nodule-bearing province of the Pacific Ocean, covering 
1.6  million  square  kilometres,  as  areas  of  particular 
environmental  interest  where  no  activity  should  take 
place
in 
I  believe  that  those  achievements  demonstrate 
that,  despite  the  initial  problems  with  Part  Xl  and  an 
overdue  gestation  for  the  Convention  as  a  whole,  the 
international machinery to administer the resources of 
the Area, which are the common heritage of humankind, 
is functioning well. 
The  international  community  has  succeeded  in 
establishing  a  comprehensive  legal  regime  for  the 
Area, under which the Area is reserved exclusively for 
peaceful  purposes,  and  which  is  linked  to  a  coherent 
management  regime  through  international  machinery 
established for that purpose. The legal regime has been 
almost universally accepted by States, and there can no 
longer  be  any  doubt  as  to  the  validity  of  claims  made 
to  areas  of  the  seabed  under  the  single  legal  regime 
established by the Convention and the 1994 Agreement. 
The  Authority  has  made  good  progress,  on  the 
basis  of  the  evolutionary  approach  set  out  in  the  1994 
Agreement,  in  elaborating  a  regulatory  regime  for 
access to the resources of the Area that emphasizes the 
precautionary  approach  and  the  need  for  ecosystem-
based management of the resources of the Area.
for 
the 
remain 
Immense  challenges 
future. 
Notwithstanding  the  advances  that  have  been  made, 
no  commercial  mining  has  yet  taken  place  and  no 
financial  benefits  have  accrued  from  the  Area.  The 
very developing countries that were supposed to benefit 
from  Part  XI  have,  in  fact,  been  expected  to  share  in 
financing the Authority.
Eighteen  years  after  its  establishment,  the  budget 
of  the  Authority  is  still  funded  through  assessed 
contributions  of  member  States,  using  the  same  scale 
16 
12-63631
A/67/PV.49
of  assessments  as  in  the  United  Nations,  even  though 
the  Convention  envisaged  that  system  would  be  an 
interim arrangement, applicable until such time as the 
Authority was able to generate revenue of its own from 
activities in the Area.
Much more work remains to be done if the economic 
benefits  of  the  common  heritage  are  to  be  realized.  It 
is  essential  that  the  Authority  move  expeditiously  to 
begin  to  develop  a  coherent  and  commercially  viable 
code  for  the  exploitation  of  marine  mineral  resources. 
The regime must be viable in the sense that it must offer 
appropriate commercial incentives to investors to begin 
to exploit the mineral resources of the Area, but it must 
also  be  fair  and  equitable  to  all  States.  The  Authority 
must also be provided with the resources and facilities 
to administer the resources of the Area in an efficient 
and effective manner.
The good news is that the Council of the Authority 
has  taken  a  decision  to  commence  work  on  an 
exploitation  code  in  2013.  While  that  will  inevitably 
take  several  years  and  raise  many  controversial  and 
difficult  issues,  I  feel  confident  that  the  goodwill  and 
cooperative  spirit  that  has  prevailed  since  1994  will 
continue  to  prevail  and  that  the  next  30  years  will 
bring  about  the  realization  of  the  common  heritage  of 
humankind.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  f loor  to  His  Excellency  Mr.  Shunji  Yanai, 
President  of  the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of 
the Sea.
Mr.  Yanai  (International  Tribunal  for  the  Law 
of  the  Sea)  (spoke  in  French):  On  behalf  of  the 
International Tribunal for the Law of the Sea, I wish to 
say how honoured I am to be able to address the General 
Assembly and at the same time to celebrate the thirtieth 
anniversary of the opening for signature of the United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS).
The  adoption  of  the  Convention  was  one  of  the 
pivotal  moments  in  the  development  of  international 
law.  From  the  very  beginning,  the  instrument,  whose 
preamble states that it establishes “a legal order for the 
seas and oceans”, was regarded as a constitution for the 
oceans.  It  sets  out  existing  law  and  defines  the  rules 
applicable  to  new  domains,  in  particular  in  Part  V,  on 
the exclusive economic zone, and Part XI, on the Area, 
meaning, as set out in article 1 of the Convention, “the 
seabed and ocean f loor and subsoil thereof, beyond the 
limits  of  national  jurisdiction”.  The  text  establishes  a 
comprehensive  legal  framework  regulating  the  most 
important resource on the planet.
The  International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea 
plays a key role in Part XV, on the settlement of disputes. 
A guiding notion of the third United Nations Conference 
on the Law of the Sea was the recognition that effective 
means for settling disputes had to be established if the 
Convention were to be applied effectively.
The Tribunal enjoys an innovative ratione personae 
jurisdiction, in that States parties are not the only entities 
authorized to appear before it. Entities other than State 
parties,  such  as  international  organizations,  also  may 
appear.  For  example,  the  European  Union  was  a  party 
in a dispute brought before an ad hoc special chamber 
of the Tribunal in the case concerning the Conservation 
and sustainable exploitation of swordfish stocks in the 
South-Eastern Pacific Ocean (Chile /European Union). 
The Tribunal’s Seabed Disputes Chamber is also open 
to  entities  other  than  States  parties,  for  example  the 
International  Seabed  Authority  and  natural  or  legal 
persons.
The  Tribunal  began  its  work  in  1996.  In  its  16 
years  of  existence,  20  cases  have  come  before  it, 
covering a broad spectrum of legal questions — urgent 
proceedings;  activities  at  sea,  such  as  navigation  and 
fisheries; and the delimitation of maritime areas. 
Article  287  of  the  Convention  incorporates  an 
ingenious  mechanism  devised  by  the  negotiators  as 
a  compromise.  Under  that  provision,  a  State  party 
may  accept,  by  means  of  a  declaration,  one  or  more 
of  the  following  means  for  the  settlement  of  disputes 
concerning  the  interpretation  or  application  of  the 
Convention  —  the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Law 
of the Sea; the International Court of Justice; an arbitral 
tribunal constituted in accordance with Annex VII; or 
a  special  arbitral  tribunal  constituted  in  accordance 
with Annex VIII. If no choice is made or if there is no 
agreement between the choices, arbitration will be the 
compulsory means of settlement. As of 1 December, 47 
States  had  made  declarations  of  that  type,  34  of  them 
having opted for the Tribunal as a means of settlement. It 
is my hope that States will take the opportunity afforded 
by today’s celebration of the thirtieth anniversary of the 
opening  for  signature  of  the  Convention  to  make  such 
declarations.
The  option  given  to  States  to  choose  one  or  more 
international  courts  or  tribunals  has  sometimes  given 
rise to fears of a fragmentation of international law or 
12-63631
17
A/67/PV.49
of conf licting judgements being delivered by different 
international  courts  and  tribunals.  That  concern  has 
proved  to  be  unfounded.  The  Tribunal  has  regularly 
referred  to  judgments  of  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  and  its  predecessor,  the  Permanent  Court  of 
International  Justice,  and  to  decisions  by  other  courts 
and tribunals.
Adjudication by the Tribunal can play an important 
role in maintaining peace, which is one of the primary 
objectives  of  the  Convention.  In  particular,  by  taking 
an  impartial  decision  on  the  grievances  underlying 
a  dispute,  it  can  defuse  international  tensions.  For 
example,  when  the  Tribunal  delivered  its  judgment 
in  Dispute  concerning  delimitation  of  the  maritime 
boundary  between  Bangladesh  and  Myanmar  in  the 
Bay  of  Bengal  (Bangladesh/Myanmar),  on  14  March, 
it  put  to  rest  a  complex  delimitation  dispute  that  had 
divided  the  parties  for  more  than  three  decades.  The 
judgment  was  welcomed  by  the  parties,  which  can 
now  exploit  the  natural  resources  in  their  respective 
maritime  areas.  Furthermore,  if  States  are  in  dispute, 
they may also avail themselves of advisory proceedings 
in  order  to  obtain  from  the  Tribunal  an  opinion  on  a 
point of law on which they disagree, and that can help 
in formulating a diplomatic solution.
It  should  be  noted  that  urgent  proceedings  enable 
the Tribunal to deal with certain cases very quickly — in 
about  one  month  from  the  submission  of  the  request 
or  application  to  the  decision.  Such  proceedings  take 
two  forms  —  provisional  measures  and  the  prompt 
release  of  vessels  and  crews.  Those  proceedings  have 
seen a degree of success, which bears witness to their 
usefulness and the wisdom shown by the negotiators of 
the Convention who established them.
The  International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea 
is  busier  than  ever.  The  quality  of  our  decisions  and 
the general confidence inspired by the outcomes of our 
cases  are  a  product  of  the  collegial  character  of  our 
work. Through that approach we can strive to meet the 
expectations of States that turn to us to find a solution to 
their disputes as quickly as possible. The Tribunal must 
respond  to  the  needs  of  the  international  community. 
The Tribunal must also maintain its commitment to the 
quality and efficiency of its work. By carefully balancing 
continuity and change, the Tribunal will continue to be 
the benchmark in the settlement of disputes relating to 
the seas and oceans. That is the challenge we will have 
to meet over the coming years.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give the f loor to Mr. Lawrence Awosika, Chairman of 
the Commission on the Limits of the Continental Shelf.
Mr.  Awosika  (Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the 
Continental  Shelf ):  I  have  the  honour  of  making  this 
statement  on  behalf  of  the  Commission  on  the  Limits 
of  the  Continental  Shelf.  I  would  like  to  express  my 
gratitude to Member States for the invitation extended 
to  the  Commission  to  address  the  General  Assembly 
during 
thirtieth 
anniversary of the opening for signature of the United 
Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS).
today’s  commemoration  of 
the 
The Commission is one of the three institutions set up 
under the Convention. Its functions are twofold — first, 
to  consider  submissions  made  by  coastal  States  and 
to  make  recommendations  in  accordance  with  article 
76  and  the  Statement  of  Understanding  adopted  on 
29 August 1980 by the third United Nations Conference 
on  the  Law  of  the  Sea;  and,  secondly,  to  provide 
scientific and technical advice.
As 
is  aware, 
the  Assembly 
the  Commission 
consists  of  21  members,  who  are  experts  in  the  fields 
of  geology,  geophysics  or  hydrography  and  who  are 
elected  by  States  parties  from  among  their  nationals, 
with  due  regard  given  to  the  need  to  ensure  equitable 
geographical  representation.  The  members  of  the 
Commission serve in their personal capacity. They are 
elected for a term of five years and may be re-elected.
The  Commission  came  into  being  following  the 
election  of  the  first  21  members  by  the  sixth  Meeting 
of  the  States  Parties,  in  1997.  Since  then,  three  more 
elections have taken place — in 2002, 2007 and, most 
recently, in June 2012, at the twenty-second Meeting of 
States Parties. It will be recalled that the twenty-second 
Meeting  elected  only  20  members  and  requested  that 
the election for the remaining vacant seat, allocated to 
the  Eastern  European  States,  be  postponed  to  a  later 
date. As the Assembly may be aware, that election will 
be held in a little more than a week, on 19 December.
The  initial  work  of  the  Commission  focused  on 
developing  two  of  its  most  important  documents.  In 
September  1997,  the  Commission  adopted  its  rules  of 
procedure, including the modus operandi. In May 1999, 
it  adopted  the  Scientific  and  Technical  Guidelines 
to  assist  coastal  States  in  the  preparation  of  their 
submissions  to  the  Commission.  Subsequently,  the 
Commission  immersed  itself  in  the  consideration  of 
submissions by coastal States. To date, the Commission 
18 
12-63631
A/67/PV.49
has  adopted  18  recommendations,  at  a  pace  that  has 
increased in recent years.
by documentation weighing several hundred kilograms 
and containing many terabytes of data and information.
Both the vision enshrined in the Convention and the 
work  of  the  Commission  are  unique.  The  Convention 
established  that,  in  order  to  assert  sovereign  rights 
and  jurisdiction  over  a  maritime  zone,  States  had 
to  make  use  of  a  procedural  mechanism.  That  was 
a  first  in  international  relations.  By  doing  so,  the 
Convention, on the one hand, confirmed the unilateral 
nature  of  the  establishment  of  maritime  zones  by 
coastal  States.  On  the  other  hand,  the  Convention, 
through  the  Commission,  introduced  a  process  that 
provided  a  sound  scientific  base  for  evaluating  the 
territorial  aspirations  of  coastal  States  to  jurisdiction 
over  vast  submerged  areas.  However,  the  drafters  of 
the  Convention  could  work  only  with  the  information 
and  knowledge  available  at  the  time  and  had  no  way 
of  anticipating  the  monumental  scale  of  the  work  that 
the Commission would face decades after the entry into 
force of UNCLOS.
First,  they  expected  that  about  30  coastal  States 
might  have  a  continental  shelf  extending  beyond  200 
nautical  miles.  However,  61  submissions  have  been 
received by the Commission so far. In addition, States 
have  deposited  45  preliminary  information  notes 
indicating an intention to make a submission at a later 
stage. To those figures one should add the submissions 
that will be made by States that have become parties to 
the Convention in the past 10 years, and those by States 
that  may  become  parties  in  the  future.  The  number  of 
submissions  may  therefore  rise  well  beyond  the  100 
mark, a figure that would no doubt have surprised those 
who participated in the third United Nations Conference 
on the Law of the Sea.
Secondly,  the  scientific  understanding  of  the  sea 
f loor  and  the  subsurface  has  progressed  by  leaps  and 
bounds.  Today’s  knowledge  of  geology,  geophysics, 
geomorphology and hydrography has shown us the real 
face of the structure of the earth beneath the oceans — a 
very  different  one  from  that  which  the  negotiators  of 
the  Convention  had  in  mind  when  they  devised  legal 
concepts  such  as  the  foot  of  the  continental  slope, 
submarine elevations, submarine ridges, and so on.
Thirdly,  the  drafters  of  the  Convention  could  not 
have anticipated the sheer volume of the data collected 
to document the configuration of the continental shelf 
that  would  ultimately  be  included  in  submissions  to 
the  Commission.  Some  submissions  are  accompanied 
All of those factors inevitably became visible to the 
international community in a dramatic way in mid-2009, 
when the 10-year period for making submissions to the 
Commission  expired  for  many  States  parties  to  the 
Convention.  The  number  of  submissions  received  by 
the  Commission  more  than  tripled  in  a  few  months, 
from  16  at  the  end  of  2008  to  51  in  June  2009.  That 
resulted in an unprecedented increase in the workload 
of the Commission. 
The  Commission  has  brought  the  issue  of  the 
projected increase of its workload to the attention of the 
Meeting  of  the  States  Parties  on  numerous  occasions. 
Ultimately,  after  a  lengthy  process,  the  twentieth 
Meeting  of  the  States  Parties,  in  June,  recommended 
to  the  Commission  to  consider,  in  coordination  with 
the secretariat, meeting for up to 26 weeks, but not less 
than  an  intended  minimum  of  21  weeks  a  year,  for  a 
period of five years. At its thirtieth session, in August, 
the  newly  elected  Commission,  after  considering  that 
recommendation  by  the  Meeting  of  States  Parties, 
decided  that  in  2013  it  would  hold  three  sessions  of 
seven  weeks  each,  including  plenary  meetings,  for  a 
total of 21 weeks. In addition, the Commission decided 
to  adopt  a  new  working  arrangement  so  that  there 
would  be  six  subcommissions  actively  considering 
submissions  at  any  given  time.  Those  new  working 
arrangements  are  an  attempt  to  manage  the  workload 
of the Commission but may not constitute a permanent 
solution  to  its  continuously  growing  workload.  An 
increased work period in New York highlights the need 
for consistent financial and other support for members 
of the Commission and a properly resourced secretariat, 
something  that  the  drafters  of  the  Convention  might 
have  considered  had  they  known  the  scale  of  the 
Commission’s work.
Many  States  will  remain  in  the  uncomfortable 
position  of  having  to  wait  for  a  long  time  before  their 
submission comes up for consideration, even under the 
Commission’s new working arrangements. During that 
time they will have to maintain the expertise developed 
in  the  course  of  the  preparation  of  their  submissions. 
That is of concern to many States in view of the large 
sums  of  money  and  significant  human  resources  they 
have  had  to  invest  in  order  to  collect  and  interpret 
data and to develop their submissions. Their eagerness 
to  undertake  the  exploration  and  exploitation  of 
12-63631
19
A/67/PV.49
natural  resources  located  on  the  continental  shelf  is 
understandable.
Let me conclude my remarks by noting that, despite 
the differences between the scenarios that the drafters 
of the Convention had in mind and the realities that the 
Commission  has  been  faced  with,  the  design  behind 
the Convention is as central today as it was during the 
years  of  the  third  United  Nations  Conference  on  the 
Law of the Sea.
The United Nations Convention on the Law of the 
Sea  has  given  States  the  opportunity  to  extend  their 
sovereign  rights  and  jurisdiction  to  larger  maritime 
areas  without  conf lict,  thereby  making  the  oceans  a 
peaceful  medium  for  sustainable  development.  Many 
may  forget  that  some  coastal  States  have  had  the 
opportunity to expand the areas under their jurisdiction 
dramatically,  in  one  case  by  up  to  two  times  the  size 
of  the  mainland,  in  another  instance  up  to  2.5  million 
square  miles.  At  the  end  of  its  work,  the  Commission 
will have been part of the largest aggregate expansion 
of territorial rights in history. 
Just  like  the  drafters  of  the  Convention,  who 
had  no  way  of  assessing  the  scale  of  the  work  of  the 
Commission in the 1970s and the 1980s, today we have 
no way of anticipating the scale of human activities that 
will take place under the oceans in the future. But we 
can  safely  assume  that  it  will  dramatically  impact  the 
wealth of States.
In  addition,  submitting  States,  in  the  course  of 
the  collection  of  information  necessary  to  prepare 
their submissions, have, and will continue to have, the 
opportunity to vastly expand their understanding of the 
resources that lie in the areas that may fall under their 
jurisdiction.  That  is  another  great  achievement  of  the 
vision of the drafters of the Convention.
The  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental 
Shelf feels honoured to continue assisting States in the 
process  of  expanding  the  maritime  areas  under  their 
sovereign rights and jurisdiction.
Lastly,  on  behalf  of  the  Commission,  I  wish  to 
thank the Division for Ocean Affairs and the Law of the 
Sea for the assistance it has provided the Commission 
while  serving  as  its  secretariat.  The  United  Nations 
Convention on the Law of the Sea is a legal framework 
that is here to stay, and it is to be applauded.
On  the  occasion  of  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of 
the  Convention,  I  am  pleased  to  reiterate  that  the 
Commission  is  proud  of  the  contribution  it  is  making 
to  bring  sound  scientific  and  technical  interpretation 
to  the  application  of  the  provisions  of  the  Convention 
relating  to  the  outer  limits  of  the  continental  shelf 
beyond 200 nautical miles.
The Acting President (spoke in Spanish): I should 
like to consult members in relation to the list of speakers 
for today’s meeting. Pursuant to resolution 67/5, today’s 
commemoration  is  being  held  in  accordance  with  the 
format established in that resolution. However, I would 
like  to  inform  members  that  His  Excellency  Mr.  Peter 
Tomka, President of the International Court of Justice, 
is unable to join us for today’s commemoration owing to 
his official duties at the Court. He has designated Judge 
Christopher Greenwood, a member of the International 
Court of Justice, to deliver a statement on his behalf. 
Unless  I  hear  any  objection,  I  shall  take  it  that  it 
is  the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  invite  Judge 
Greenwood to make a statement at today’s meeting.
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give the f loor to Judge Greenwood.
Judge Greenwood (International Court of Justice): 
It is both a privilege and a pleasure to take part in this 
meeting of the General Assembly to mark the thirtieth 
anniversary of the opening for signature of the United 
Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea.  I  do  so 
on  behalf  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  and  of 
President  Peter  Tomka,  who  has  asked  me  to  express 
his regret that he is unable to be here today. His absence 
is due to the fact that he is presiding over the hearings 
in  the  case  concerning  the  Maritime  dispute  between 
Peru and Chile. The case is the second maritime dispute 
to  be  heard  by  the  Court  this  year,  and  the  thirteenth 
occasion  on  which  the  Court  has  been  called  upon  to 
determine  questions  of  maritime  boundaries  —  a  fact 
that bears witness to the importance of the relationship 
between the International Court of Justice and the law 
of the sea.
The  International  Court  of  Justice  thanks  the 
General  Assembly,  its  President  and  the  Secretary-
General  for  having  kindly  invited  the  Court,  as  the 
principal  judicial  organ  of  the  United  Nations,  to  be 
represented  at  today’s  celebration.  As  Ambassador 
Meetarbhan has said, there is much to celebrate today. 
The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 
is without doubt one of the most important international 
20 
12-63631
conventions ever adopted. It has created a legal order of 
the  oceans  that  has  made  possible  a  reconciliation  of 
the different interests of States and the establishment of 
the common heritage of humankind. 
On 
this  happy  anniversary, 
the  International 
Court  of  Justice  wishes  to  express  its  congratulations 
to  all  those  who  served  as  officers  of  the  third  United 
Nations  Conference  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  or  who 
otherwise  contributed  untiringly  to  the  conclusion 
of  the  Convention  and  its  adoption.  It  is  a  particular 
pleasure to join in the tribute to the visionary approach 
of Ambassador Arvid Pardo of Malta and the hard work 
of  Ambassador  Hamilton  Shirley  Amerasinghe  of  Sri 
Lanka  and  Ambassador  Tommy  Koh  of  Singapore, 
which did so much to make that vision a reality. Coming 
as  I  do  from  an  island,  and  having  been  born  into  a 
seafaring family, I am particularly conscious of the debt 
that we all owe to those who made possible the adoption 
of the Convention, and aware of the magnitude of their 
achievement.
The  International  Court  of  Justice  has  been 
concerned  with  the  application  of  the  law  of  the  sea 
from  the  very  start  of  the  Court’s  existence.  The  first 
case  the  Court  decided  —  Corfu  Channel  (United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland  v. 
Albania)  —  required  the  Court  to  apply  principles  on 
the right of passage that were the forerunners of those 
now  set  forth  in  articles  17  to  32  and  34  to  45  of  the 
Convention,  as  well  as  of  the  important  principle  in 
article  279,  concerning  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes.  Since  then,  the  Court  has  issued  some  30 
judgments  that,  in  one  way  or  another,  have  touched 
upon issues concerning the law of the sea.
Less  than  two  years  after  Ambassador  Pardo 
delivered  his  crucial  speech  to  the  1515th  meeting  of 
the  First  Committee,  the  Court,  in  its  judgments  in 
the  North  Sea  Continental  Shelf  cases,  first  explained 
the  role  of  equitable  principles  as  part  of  the  law  in 
determining the boundary between the continental shelf 
of  neighbouring  States.  The  Court  also  emphasized  in 
those  judgments  the  duty  of  neighbouring  States  to 
negotiate  in  good  faith  in  order  to  achieve  agreement 
on  their  maritime  boundaries.  Those  aspects  of  the 
Court’s  judgments  were  subsequently  ref lected  in  the 
importance attached to achieving an equitable solution 
through  agreement,  which  is  found  in  what  became 
articles  74  and  83  of  the  Convention,  which  deal  with 
overlapping  entitlements  to  the  exclusive  economic 
zone and continental shelf.
A/67/PV.49
In  their  turn,  developments  at  the  third  United 
Nations  Conference  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  began  to 
inf luence the law applied by the Court even before the 
Convention was adopted. As early as 1978, in a dispute 
regarding  continental  shelf  delimitation,  the  parties 
asked  the  Court  to  take  into  account  in  deciding  the 
case the recent trends admitted at the Conference. The 
Court’s  judgment  in  that  case,  between  Tunisia  and 
Libya  —  which  was  delivered  two  months  before  the 
Convention  was  adopted  —  was  the  first  occasion  on 
which  a  court  or  tribunal  considered  the  principles 
enshrined in article 83 of the Convention.
In the 30 years that have followed, the judgments of 
the  Court  have  discussed  the  Convention’s  provisions 
on  the  extent  of  the  territorial  sea,  the  delimitation 
of  the  territorial  sea  between  neighbouring  States, 
the  continental  shelf,  the  exclusive  economic  zone, 
fisheries,  the  legal  regime  of  islands  and  navigational 
rights. The parties to those cases have included States 
from all of the five regional groups. In some instances 
all  of  the  parties  to  the  case  have  been  parties  to  the 
Convention,  and  its  provisions  have  therefore  been 
applied as a matter of treaty law. In other cases particular 
provisions  of  the  Convention  have  been  relevant 
because the Court found that they ref lected customary 
international law as it stands today. The result has been 
a  substantial  body  of  jurisprudence,  which  we  believe 
has  been  a  major  contribution  to  the  interpretation, 
exposition  and  application  of  the  principles  enshrined 
in the Convention.
I would like to conclude with two ref lections on the 
judicial  application  of  the  Convention  during  the  past 
30 years.
First, when the Convention was adopted a number of 
commentators expressed their concern that the choice of 
different methods of dispute settlement set out in article 
287  of  Part  XV  might  lead  to  a  fragmentation  of  that 
area  of  international  law,  and  even  to  competing  lines 
of jurisprudence from different courts and tribunals. In 
fact, there has been a remarkable harmony between the 
pronouncements  of  the  International  Court  of  Justice, 
the International Tribunal for the Law for the Sea and 
the Annex VII arbitration tribunals. 
If  we  consider,  for  example,  the  approach  to 
delimitation  of  the  continental  shelf  and  exclusive 
economic  zone  between  neighbouring  States,  the 
jurisprudence  built  up  by  the  International  Court  of 
Justice  in  the  many  cases  it  has  decided  over  the  past 
12-63631
21
A/67/PV.49
30 years has been followed and applied by the arbitral 
tribunals in the two principal Annex VII cases decided 
so  far  and  by  the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Law 
of  the  Sea  in  its  judgment  in  the  Bay  of  Bengal  case 
earlier this year. Conversely, the most recent judgment 
of  the  International  Court  of  Justice  in  a  maritime 
delimitation  case,  delivered  only  three  weeks  ago, 
draws  extensively  on  the  awards  of  the  Annex  VII 
tribunals  and 
the  International 
Tribunal.  Far  from  fragmentation,  what  we  have  seen 
is  a  consistent  determination  to  achieve  a  clear  and 
coherent jurisprudence across all of the relevant courts 
and tribunals.
judgment  of 
the 
Secondly,  I  would  suggest  that  the  resolution  of 
competing national claims to the continental shelf and 
exclusive economic zone has been one of the important 
achievements  of  the  past  30  years.  The  substantial 
enlargement of coastal States’ rights to the seabed and 
waters  extending  to  a  great  distance  from  their  coasts 
had the potential to be a seriously destabilizing factor in 
international relations. While some cases of competing 
claims  remain  problematic,  as  we  have  heard  this 
morning, the principles laid down in the Convention and 
the application of those principles in the jurisprudence 
of  which  I  have  just  spoken  have  made  possible  the 
peaceful  resolution  of  a  remarkable  number  of  such 
cases.  The  International  Court  of  Justice  is  happy  to 
have  played  its  part  in  that  process  and  looks  forward 
to continuing its work in that regard.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give the f loor to the representative of Jamaica, who will 
speak on behalf of the Caribbean Community.
Mr.  Wolfe  (Jamaica):  Thirty  years  ago  on  this 
day,  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of 
the  Sea  was  opened  for  signature  in  my  homeland, 
Jamaica.  That  was  the  culmination  of  many  years  of 
debate  leading  to  a  compromise  agreement,  which 
demonstrated  the  importance  of  multilateral  efforts  in 
establishing international norms.
That  historic  act  ushered  in  a  new  chapter  in  the 
development  of  the  law  of  the  sea,  as  it  established  a 
legal  framework  for  the  conservation,  management, 
exploration and exploitation of the living and non-living 
marine  resources  within  and  beyond  areas  of  national 
jurisdiction.  Most  significantly,  it  also  codified  the 
principle that the resources of the deep seabed beyond 
areas of national jurisdiction were the common heritage 
of humankind, to be utilized for the benefit of the entire 
international community.
Against  that  backdrop,  it  is  my  special  honour  to 
speak  on  behalf  of  States  members  of  the  Caribbean 
Community  (CARICOM)  —  Antigua  and  Barbuda, 
the  Bahamas,  Barbados,  Belize,  Dominica,  Grenada, 
Guyana, Haiti, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saint Lucia, Saint 
Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  Suriname,  Trinidad  and 
Tobago and my own country, Jamaica — at this plenary 
meeting of the General Assembly commemorating the 
thirtieth  anniversary  of  the  opening  for  signature  of 
that landmark Convention. 
States, 
For  CARICOM  member 
today’s 
commemoration  has  special  significance.  First,  the 
region  was  an  active  player  in  the  drafting  of  a  just 
and equitable international regime governing maritime 
zones  that  operated  to  the  mutual  benefit  of  both 
developed  and  developing  countries.  Secondly,  it  was 
in Montego Bay, on Jamaica’s north coast, where, after 
many  years  of  debate  and  spirited  discussions,  the 
Convention  was  finally  opened  for  signature  in  1982. 
As  part  of  the  thirtieth  anniversary  commemorative 
activities,  the  Government  of  Jamaica  was  therefore 
pleased  to  collaborate  with  the  International  Seabed 
Authority — whose Secretary-General is here with us 
today — in July in unveiling a plaque at the historic site 
in Montego Bay where the Convention was opened for 
signature. The text inscribed on the plaque reads:
“This plaque is installed in commemoration of the 
thirtieth  anniversary  of  the  opening  for  signature 
of  the  United  Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of 
the  Sea  at  the  Wyndham  Hotel  in  Montego  Bay, 
Jamaica,  on  10  December  1982,  in  recognition  of 
the  invaluable  contribution  of  the  Convention  to 
the  transformation  of  the  legal  architecture  which 
governs the oceans, including the designation of the 
areas  beyond  national  jurisdiction  as  the  common 
heritage of mankind and its historic contribution to 
the maintenance of peace, justice and progress for 
all peoples of the world.” 
On  this  commemorative  occasion,  it  is  fitting 
to  pay  rich  tribute  to  the  early  pioneers  for  their 
visionary  leadership  in  anticipating  the  need  for  a 
comprehensive  legal  regime  that  would  define  the 
rights and responsibilities of nations in their use of the 
world’s oceans, including the management of the living 
and  non-living  marine  resources.  We  also  commend 
them  for  their  astute  diplomatic  skills  in  crafting  the 
22 
12-63631
1982  Convention.  We  commend  as  well  those  who 
contributed  to  the  adoption  and  ratification  of  the 
Convention.  CARICOM  States  therefore  wish  to  pay 
special  tribute  to  the  late  Ambassador  Arvid  Pardo  of 
Malta, the originator of the idea that the seabed and its 
resources in areas beyond national jurisdiction were the 
common heritage of humankind.
We  in  the  Caribbean  take  great  pride  in  the 
contribution  of  distinguished  representatives  of  our 
region to the development of the Convention — the late 
Judge  Lennox  Ballah  of  Trinidad  and  Tobago,  Judge 
Doliver  Nelson  of  Grenada,  the  late  Edward  Laing  of 
Belize, the late Honourable Kenneth Rattray and Judge 
Patrick  Robinson  of  Jamaica,  and  the  late  Honourable 
Paul L. Adderley of the Bahamas. We are also pleased 
to  recall  that,  in  November  1993,  it  was  a  CARICOM 
member  State,  the  Cooperative  Republic  of  Guyana, 
that  deposited  the  sixtieth  instrument  of  ratification, 
making up the number required to bring the Convention 
into force.
This  is  a  time  for  the  international  community 
to  be  justly  proud  of  its  collective  achievement.  I 
take  this  opportunity  to  acknowledge  the  presence  of 
Ambassador Tommy Koh of Singapore, President of the 
third United Nations Conference of the Law of the Sea, 
in  today’s  commemorative  meeting.  Occasions  such 
as  the  one  for  which  we  have  gathered  today  provide 
a  valuable  opportunity  to  ref lect  on  how  far  we  have 
come  and  to  renew  our  commitment  to  tackle  the 
challenges  that  lie  ahead,  as  we  resolutely  pursue  the 
full and effective implementation of the Convention. 
The United Nations Convention on the Law of the 
Sea  has  proved  to  be  the  most  successful  multilateral 
treaty. Over the past 30 years, the Convention has been 
an inspiring example for effective multilateralism. It has 
served as an important frame of reference for initiatives 
in  global  political  and  economic  development,  and  for 
the  advancement  of  international  peace  and  security. 
At the political level, international disputes have been 
settled,  good-neighbourliness  has  been  forged  and  the 
international law of the sea has been enhanced, through 
the  implementation  of  the  relevant  provisions  of  the 
Convention. On the economic front, the resources of the 
ocean, including its rich biodiversity, have contributed 
much  to  technological  advancement,  innovations  in 
pharmaceuticals,  scientific  research  and  human  and 
social well-being.
The  near-universal  adherence  to  the  Convention 
attests  to  the  high  value  placed  on  the  regime  it 
A/67/PV.49
defines.  Indeed,  CARICOM  member  States  note  with 
satisfaction  the  steady  increase  over  the  years  in  the 
number  of  States  parties  to  the  Convention  and  both 
Implementing  Agreements.  We  are  therefore  pleased 
to welcome the accession of Ecuador and Swaziland to 
the Treaty in September, which increased the number of 
States parties to 164. We remain steadfast in our support 
for the goal of universal participation, and we strongly 
urge  those  States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to  become 
parties  to  the  Convention  and  its  related  Agreements, 
so that its universal acceptance may be achieved in the 
near future.
In tandem with the growth in the number of States 
parties,  we  observe  positive  developments  relating  to 
State  practices  on  the  establishment  of  baselines,  the 
delimitation  of  maritime  boundaries  and  submissions 
on the delineation of the outer limits of the continental 
shelf.  That  further  demonstrates 
the  efficacy  of 
the  Convention  in  providing  the  appropriate  legal 
framework  and  in  serving  as  a  tool  through  which 
States  parties  can  address  their  maritime  differences 
and  concerns.  The  Convention  has  also  given  greater 
impetus  for  greater  cooperation  and  understanding 
between  States  parties  in  promoting  their  maritime 
interests.
the  International  Seabed  Authority, 
The  Convention’s  success  over  the  past  30  years 
can  also  be  attributed  to  the  effective  and  seamless 
operation  of  the  three  institutions  it  has  established, 
namely, 
the 
International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea  and  the 
Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental  Shelf. 
Those  bodies  provide  for  the  comprehensive  handling 
of law of the sea issues in a complementary way within 
their  respective  areas  of  competence,  thus  avoiding 
duplication  and  ensuring  cost-effectiveness.  There 
has been a remarkable increase in the number of cases 
brought  to  the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of 
Sea, which is a testament to the quality of its judgments 
and  advisory  opinions.  Likewise,  the  Commission  on 
the Limits of the Continental Shelf has been carefully 
reviewing  a  large  number  of  submissions  and  has 
provided  a  number  of  recommendations  to  States 
parties  seeking  to  establish  the  outer  limits  of  their 
continental shelves.
CARICOM  is  privileged  to  host  in  Kingston  the 
headquarters  of  the  International  Seabed  Authority, 
which  has  been  entrusted  with 
to 
administer, organize and control activities in the Area 
on  behalf  of  all  States.  CARICOM  is  pleased  by  the 
the  mandate 
12-63631
23
A/67/PV.49
considerable  progress  achieved  by  the  Authority  over 
the  years  in  developing  a  framework  for  cooperation 
in  the  management  of  seabed  resources.  Important 
achievements  include  the  development  of  regulations 
on  the  prospecting  and  exploration  of  polymetallic 
sulphides,  polymetallic  nodules  and  cobalt-rich 
ferromanganese  crust  in  the  Area,  as  well  as  the 
provision  of  training  through  annual  workshops  on 
the  scientific  and  technical  aspects  of  deep-seabed 
mining  and  in  the  critical  area  of  the  protection  and 
preservation of the marine environment. 
CARICOM continues to underscore its unwavering 
commitment  to  the  Authority  and  its  work.  We 
urge  member  States  of  the  Authority  to  honour  their 
obligations  in  that  regard,  including  attendance  at  its 
annual sessions, in order to enhance the efficacy of its 
work.
An outstanding provision of the Convention, which 
is as vital and relevant today as it was 30 years ago, is 
“the  study,  protection  and  preservation  of  the  marine 
environment”, as stated in its preamble. For CARICOM 
member  States,  the  protection  and  preservation  of 
the  marine  environment, 
including  areas  beyond 
national jurisdiction, remains an issue of fundamental 
importance  to  the  sustainable  development  of  our 
economies.  As  small  island  developing  States,  the 
sustainable  development  of  the  Caribbean  Sea  for 
present and future generations is a fundamental priority 
for our economic viability and livelihood. Our history 
and  socioeconomic  development  have  been  closely 
tied  to  the  sea.  We  therefore  commend  the  focus  of 
the  Convention  on  the  sustainable  exploitation  of  the 
seabed’s natural and non-renewable resources. 
From  the  days  of  piracy  to  the  attempt  to  explore 
for minerals, including offshore oil, the ocean and the 
sea  have  been  a  great  source  of  economic  potential. 
The  Convention  has  done  much  to  level  the  playing 
field,  allowing  each  country 
to  sustainably  and 
equitably  exploit  the  resources  of  the  world’s  oceans. 
It is therefore heartening that this opportunity is being 
afforded to developing countries, including small island 
developing States.
indispensable 
Thirty  years  on,  there  is  no  doubt  that  the  United 
Nations  Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  remains 
an 
the  sustainable 
management  and  use  of  the  ocean  and  its  resources. 
I  can  assure  the  Assembly  that  CARICOM  member 
States remain fully committed to the letter and spirit of 
instrument 
for 
the  provisions  of  the  Convention,  which  will  continue 
to provide an essential foundation for ensuring that the 
oceans and their resources are managed effectively for 
the sustainable use of the world and all its peoples, based 
on the principle of the common heritage of humankind.
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give the f loor to the representative of the Lao People’s 
Democratic Republic, who will speak on behalf of the 
Group of Landlocked Developing Countries.
Mr.  Kommasith 
(Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic): I have the honour to speak on behalf of the 
Group  of  Landlocked  Developing  Countries,  which 
consists of 31 Member States. 
At  the  outset,  allow  me  to  pay  special  tribute  to 
Ambassador  Arvid  Pardo  of  Malta,  father  of  the  law 
of the sea, as well as to all distinguished persons who 
contributed  to  the  development  of  the  United  Nations 
Convention  on  the  Law  of  the  Sea  (UNCLOS).  Our 
appreciation also goes to the Secretariat’s Division for 
Ocean Affairs and the Law of the Sea for its efforts and 
contribution  to  the  implementation  of  the  Convention, 
including 
this  commemorative 
meeting.
the  convening  of 
Throughout 
the  history  of  humankind, 
the 
oceans,  which  cover  more  than  70  per  cent  of  Earth’s 
surface,  have  been  of  critical  importance  to  the  very 
existence  and  well-being  of  all  people  and  nations. 
They are sources of food, minerals, energy and marine 
biodiversity  and  are  used  for  transportation  and  other 
socioeconomic activities.
The United Nations Convention on the Law of the 
Sea, which is often referred to as the “constitution for 
the oceans”, is considered to be the most comprehensive 
international  instrument  setting  a  legal  framework 
within  which  all  activities  related  to  the  oceans  and 
seas  must  be  carried  out  in  a  balanced  and  integrated 
manner,  in  order  to  promote  the  peaceful  use  of  the 
oceans,  the  equitable  and  efficient  utilization  of 
their  resources,  and  the  protection  of  the  maritime 
environment. It is also important to emphasize that the 
preamble of the Convention recognized the need to take 
into account the interests and needs of humankind as a 
whole,  particularly  the  special  interests  and  needs  of 
developing  countries,  whether  coastal  or  landlocked. 
We  have  seen  many  achievements  over  the  past  three 
decades of implementation of UNCLOS.
While recognizing the huge benefits of the oceans, 
it is important to point out that the level of such benefits 
24 
12-63631
A/67/PV.49
that  a  country  can  obtain  varies  from  one  to  another, 
depending on each country’s capacity and geographical 
location.  Landlocked  developing  countries  (LLDCs) 
constitute  one  of  the  most  vulnerable  groups  of 
countries  with  special  needs  and  problems,  owing  to 
their distinct geographical disadvantage.
Currently,  16  member  States  of  the  Group  of 
Landlocked  Developing  Countries  are  States  parties 
to UNCLOS, which defines landlocked States as those 
having  no  sea  coast.  The  lack  of  direct  access  to  the 
sea creates formidable obstacles for their development 
process,  especially  with  regard  to  seaborne  trade. 
That  puts  LLDCs  on  an  inherently  disadvantaged 
development  path  as  compared  to  countries  with 
coastlines and deep-water ports. Landlocked developing 
countries  are  obliged  to  enter  into  agreements  with 
coastal  States  in  order  to  secure  transit  rights  and  the 
use of port facilities.
Furthermore,  inadequate  transport  infrastructure, 
cumbersome  customs  and  border-crossing  procedures, 
and  high  transport  and  trade  transaction  costs  put 
landlocked  developing  countries  in  a  non-competitive 
position  in  the  world  market.  The  transport  costs  for 
landlocked  developing  countries  is  three  times  higher 
than those of coastal countries. Such excessive transit-
transport  costs  constitute  enormous  development 
challenges  for  landlocked  developing  countries.  They 
diminish  export  profits,  inf late  the  price  of  imported 
inputs  for  manufacturing  and  discourage  investment, 
thereby  negatively  affecting  overall  development 
in  landlocked  developing  countries.  Consequently, 
those  countries  are  increasingly  marginalized  in  the 
globalized  world  economy.  Addressing  the  special 
needs and problems of landlocked developing countries 
requires  special  attention  and  treatment  from  the 
international 
including  development 
partners and transit countries. 
community, 
In that context, the full and effective implementation 
of  UNCLOS  is  vital,  especially  its  relevant  provisions 
in Part X, such as article 125, on the right of LLDCs to 
have access to and from the sea and freedom of transit 
through  the  territory  of  transit  States  by  all  means 
of  transport,  and  articles  127,  129  and  130,  related 
to  cooperation  in  the  area  of  transport  infrastructure 
development  and  the  elimination  of  any  unnecessary 
charges  and  delays.  The  effective  implementation  of 
the provisions of the Convention will not only facilitate 
the  necessary  means  for  LLDCs’  trade  transition, 
but  will  also  promote  regional  trade  cooperation 
that  benefits  both  landlocked  developing  countries 
and  their  neighbouring  transit  States.  It  will  end  any 
trade  barriers,  eliminate  any  unnecessary  procedures 
in  importing  and  exporting  goods,  shorten  transport 
delays, enhance their ability to access the world market 
and attract more foreign direct investment f low to the 
region.
In  addition,  Part  XI  of  the  Convention  contains 
provisions related to participation in the Area, such as 
seabed mining and sharing benefits from activities in the 
Area. It, too, is relevant to LLDCs’ legitimate rights and 
interests. However, even though the high seas are open 
to all States, whether coastal or landlocked, landlocked 
developing  countries  have  not  been  utilizing  those 
resources.  Reasons  for  underutilizing  the  provisions 
could  include  a  lack  of  knowledge  and  of  capacity 
and  the  distance  to  the  high  seas.  We  call  for  more 
support for capacity-building for, and the participation 
of,  LLDCs,  as  well  as  for  increased  advocacy  to  raise 
awareness  among  the  most  disadvantaged  Member 
States,  such  as  landlocked  developing  countries.  Our 
Group  also  requests  studies  or  specific  reports  on 
best  practices  regarding  how  landlocked  developing 
countries can fully utilize the provisions of UNCLOS.
To conclude, our Group would like to call upon all 
States  parties  to  further  implement  the  provisions  of 
UNCLOS  in  good  faith  and  for  the  mutual  benefit  of 
all. 
The  Acting  President  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  now 
give  the  f loor  to  the  representative  of  Micronesia, 
who  will  speak  on  behalf  of  the  Pacific  small  island 
developing States.
Mrs. Chigiyal (Federated States of Micronesia): I 
have the honour to speak on behalf of the Pacific small 
island  developing  States  represented  at  the  United 
Nations,  namely,  Fiji,  the  Republic  of  the  Marshall 
Islands,  Nauru,  Palau,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Samoa, 
Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu and my own 
country, the Federated States of Micronesia.
The United Nations Convention on the Law of the Sea 
(UNCLOS) represents one of the greatest achievements 
of the United Nations. It has provided certainty in the 
turbulent waters of ownership and usage of the oceans 
and its resources and has greatly benefited the members 
of  the  international  community  —  none  more  so  than 
small island developing States (SIDS). Today it remains 
a shining beacon of hope for us all, and it will continue 
to be so in the years ahead. 
12-63631
25
A/67/PV.49
As  we  commemorate  the  thirtieth  anniversary  of 
the  Convention’s  opening  for  signature,  it  is  timely  to 
look  back  on  its  achievements  and  challenges  and  on 
the  lessons  learned,  as  well  as  to  draw  strength  from 
that and to navigate its future prospects.
The Convention codified the law of the sea, which 
had been customary international law for centuries. The 
Convention drafters were not content to merely write it 
down; they had the insight and wisdom to enrich it in a 
way that would benefit all of humankind. I would like 
to brief ly focus on a few examples of the Convention’s 
historical landmarks that have shaped our dynamic and 
evolving world.
One  of  the  most  fundamental  achievements  was 
the establishment of the exclusive economic zone. With 
a  breadth  of  up  to  200  nautical  miles,  it  effectively 
transformed  the  small  island  developing  States  of  the 
Pacific into large ocean States. Under the Convention, 
not only do we see the resource potential of our countries 
multiplied;  the  Convention  also  formalized  to  some 
extent our traditional role as stewards of the ocean — a 
responsibility that the Pacific SIDS take very seriously 
and to which they remain steadfastly committed.
Another  important  advance  is  the  definition  of 
the  extended  continental  shelf  and  the  establishment 
of  the  Commission  on  the  Limits  of  the  Continental 
Shelf,  before  which  a  number  of  Pacific  SIDS  have 
filed  their  claims,  with  the  help  of  our  development 
partners  and  regional  organizations.  That  has  also 
helped  our  respective  countries  build  and  consolidate 
national capacities and capabilities on highly technical 
issues to secure our claims. In most cases, the work to 
provide additional information is still ongoing. We look 
forward to its conclusion and trust that the Commission 
will be provided with adequate resources and that it will 
conduct its work efficiently to assist in determining our 
claims in a timely manner.
The inclusion of the concept of the common heritage 
of  humankind  ensured  that  the  benefits  derived  from 
the  oceans  were  for  everyone,  from  SIDS  to  coastal 
States  to  landlocked  countries.  However,  there  exists 
a  significant  gap  in  the  implementation  of  UNCLOS. 
In our view, the matter of biological diversity in areas 
beyond  national  jurisdiction  needs  to  be  addressed  as 
soon  as  possible  through  an  implementing  agreement 
under UNCLOS. We are convinced that that will provide 
legal certainty in the conservation and sustainable use 
of  marine  biodiversity  in  the  high  seas,  thus  deriving 
legitimacy and credibility from our “constitution of the 
oceans”.
Finally, 
the  Convention  also  established 
the 
International  Tribunal  for  the  Law  of  the  Sea  and  the 
International  Seabed  Authority.  The  Pacific  has  been 
particularly  active  in  the  latter.  Exploration  for  and 
exploitation  of  minerals  and  hydrocarbon  resources  in 
the  high  seas  will  be  an  important  economic  activity 
in  the  future.  It  is  important  that  those  activities  be 
carried  out  in  an  environmentally  sound  manner  and 
that they be guided by the precautionary principle and 
undertaken with the greatest care so as to preserve the 
oceans and their resources for future generations.
The Convention has proved its value and stood the 
test of time. While new challenges have emerged, it is 
important that we address them within the framework 
of  the  Convention.  The  Pacific  SIDS  will  continue  to 
support the maintenance of a fair and stable international 
legal order of the sea.
The meeting rose at 1 p.m.
26 
12-63631
