United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
47th plenary meeting
Friday, 30 November 2012, 3 p.m.
New York
A/67/PV.47
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Serbia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Charles 
(Trinidad  and  Tobago),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.05 p.m.
Agenda item 36
The situation in the Middle East
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/67/342
and A/67/364)
Draft resolutions (A/67/L.23 and A/67/L.24)
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  f loor  to  the 
representative  of  Egypt  to  introduce  draft  resolutions 
A/67/L.23 and A/67/L.24.
Mr. Khalil (Egypt) (spoke in Arabic): At the outset, 
I  would  like  once  again  to  congratulate  Palestine  on 
its  new  status  as  a  non-member  observer  State  in  the 
United  Nations,  following  the  Assembly’s  adoption  of 
its historic resolution 67/19 by a landslide majority, on 
29 November.
Today the Assembly will consider the situation in the 
Middle East in the framework of addressing the conf lict 
in the region, which is the result of Israel’s occupation 
of Arab territories since 1967 and its refusal to accept 
the  will  of  the  international  community  and  to  abide 
by international law and by international humanitarian 
law, as well as by resolutions of the General Assembly 
and  the  Security  Council,  despite  international  and 
regional efforts to arrive at a peaceful, lasting and just 
settlement for the question of Palestine.
In  the  past  few  years,  Israel’s  violations  of 
international  law,  human  rights  and  international 
humanitarian  law  have  increased  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territories,  as  has  become  apparent  in 
Israel’s recent assault on Gaza. Moreover, the occupation 
authorities  are  continuing  their  oppressive  policies, 
which include the detention of thousands of Palestinians 
and  holding  them  in  prison  and  detention  centres 
without any legitimate grounds. The construction of the 
racial  separation  wall  also  continues,  in  contravention 
of  international  law.  The  oppressive  siege  of  Gaza 
goes on, in blatant violation of resolution ES-10/18 and 
Security  Council  resolution  1860  (2009).  There  also 
continue  to  be  checkpoints  in  the  West  Bank,  as  well 
as other violations and contraventions that cannot all be 
mentioned within the time we have.
Regrettably,  all  those  practices  are  related  to 
Israel’s  deliberate  attempt  to  undermine  all  efforts  to 
bring  about  direct  negotiations  with  the  Palestinian 
side. That confirms that Israel does not want to arrive at 
any peaceful settlement. That will cause extreme harm 
not  only  to  the  Palestinians  and  Israelis  but  to  all  the 
countries of the region and the entire world.
To express the international community’s rejection 
of  Israel’s  continued  occupation  and 
illegitimate 
practices  in  the  occupied  Arab  territories,  today  I 
introduce  to  the  General  Assembly,  on  behalf  of  this 
year’s  sponsoring  States,  two  draft  resolutions  under 
agenda  item  36,  entitled  “The  situation  in  the  Middle 
East”. The first draft resolution is entitled “Jerusalem” 
and the second is entitled “The Syrian Golan”. 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-62371 (E)
*1262371*
A/67/PV.47
the 
that  all 
The  draft  resolution  on  Jerusalem,  A/67/L.23, 
reaffirms the terms of reference constituted by General 
Assembly and Security Council resolutions pertaining 
to  the  status  of  the  occupied  territories,  especially 
Jerusalem,  which  stress 
illegitimate 
administrative  measures  and  procedures  taken  by 
Israel to impose its laws on Jerusalem are null and void. 
Moreover, the draft resolution stresses that any just and 
comprehensive  resolution  to  the  issue  of  Jerusalem 
must  include  internationally  guaranteed  provisions  to 
ensure  of  freedom  of  belief  and  religious  practice  for 
its  inhabitants.  There  must  be  an  end  to  settlement 
activities and to illegal attempts to judaize Jerusalem, 
which Israel and the Israeli settlers are perpetrating. It 
also calls for a guarantee to end the continued violations 
of  the  Palestinians’  right  to  religious  freedom  and  to 
end  the  repeated  assaults  on  the  Al-Aqsa  Mosque,  as 
well as to end excavation in the Old City, including in 
and around religious sites.
The second draft resolution, A/67/L.24, pertains to 
the occupied Syrian Golan. It recalls Security Council 
resolution  497  (1981)  and  again  expresses  the  General 
Assembly’s  deep  concern  over  Israel’s  continued 
non-compliance  with  the  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions.  It  reaffirms  that  the  Hague  Convention 
IV of 1907 and the Fourth Geneva Convention of 1949 
apply  to  the  Syrian  territory  occupied  since  1967.  It 
also  asserts  the  illegality  of  imposing  Israeli  laws  on 
the Syrian Golan and the illegitimate nature of Israel’s 
settlements  there.  It  demands  that  Israel  withdraw 
completely from the Golan to the line of 4 June 1967. It 
also calls upon Israel to respect previous arrangements 
in that regard.
The States sponsoring the two draft resolutions see 
that the time has come for the international community 
to  deal  with  the  Middle  East  conf lict  in  an  integrated 
way. The peoples of the region are still suffering from 
the  effects  of  war  and  aggression.  They  look  forward 
to  peace,  stability  and  coexistence,  which  will  be 
achieved  only  through  the  political  will  of  the  entire 
international  community  and  by  Israel  committing 
to  fully  withdraw  from  all  occupied  Palestinian  and 
Arab  land,  in  accordance  with  General  Assembly  and 
Security  Council  resolutions  and  on  the  basis  of  the 
principle of land for peace and the rules of international 
law.
For  all  that  to  be  achieved,  we  seek  the  support 
of  all  Member  States  in  the  General  Assembly  for  the 
two  draft  resolutions.  We  urge  everyone  here  to  vote 
in  favour  of  them,  in  affirmation  of  the  strength  of 
international  will  and  its  adherence  to  international 
legitimacy, to an end to occupation and aggression and 
to the primacy of the noble purposes and principles of 
the Charter. 
67/19, 
extended 
the  Assembly 
Mr.  Çevik  (Turkey):  Yesterday, 
in  adopting 
resolution 
its 
overwhelming support to the people of Palestine at yet 
another  historic  moment  in  the  history  of  the  United 
Nations.  With  that  historic  vote,  Palestine  took  a 
great  step  towards  gaining  the  position  it  deserves 
as  an  independent  and  sovereign  State  recognized  by 
the  international  community.  We  sincerely  hope  and 
believe that that development will lead the way to a just 
and comprehensive peace and will break the stalemate 
in the peace process.
Therefore, yesterday’s vote should immediately be 
utilized as new momentum to revitalize the peace talks 
and  Palestinian  reconciliation.  The  recent  ceasefire 
sets  the  appropriate  circumstances  for  both  parties  to 
focus on diplomacy. Today, we should all encourage the 
parties to take that step. It is our foremost objective to 
find a solution to the Palestinian question on the basis 
of  relevant  United  Nations  resolutions,  the  road  map 
and the Arab Peace Initiative. 
We  all  have  to  be  sure  about  one  fact.  The 
stalemate  is  neither  sustainable  nor  acceptable.  The 
recent operation in Gaza, resulting in the loss of many 
innocent civilian lives, was testimony to that. Needless 
to  say,  illegal  settlement  activities  and  the  ongoing 
blockade  on  Gaza,  for  over  five  years,  seriously  harm 
the  prospects  for  peace  in  the  future.  Therefore  we 
repeat  our  calls  for  the  immediate  implementation  of 
Security  Council  resolution  1860  (2009)  to  end  the 
restrictions  on  the  inhabitants  of  Gaza,  which  affect 
their basic human rights each and every day.
Along  with  our  international  partners,  we  will 
resolutely  maintain  our  efforts  for  Palestine  to  be 
granted United Nations membership in the near future 
and  will  continue  to  defend  the  just  cause  of  the 
Palestinian people.
The  situation  in  Syria  continues  to  be  a  grave 
humanitarian  crisis.  As  winter’s  cold  arrives,  the 
humanitarian  situation  is  getting  even  more  dramatic. 
This  morning  we  heard  in  detail  from  Mr.  Lakhdar 
Brahimi,  Joint  Special  Representative  of  the  United 
Nations  and  the  League  of  Arab  States,  that  the  crisis 
has  gone  beyond  being  local  and  has  unfortunately 
2 
12-62371
spilled over into neighbouring countries, whether in the 
form  of  cross-border  fire  or  in  the  massive  movement 
of  civilians  seeking  safety  and  shelter.  Turkey  lost 
five  citizens  in  the  town  of  Akçakale  to  cross-border 
shelling. More were injured as a result of stray bullets 
and shell fragments.
Nevertheless,  we  shall  continue  to  utilize  all  our 
efforts, with the support of the international community, 
to  continue  extending  our  helping  hand  to  the  Syrian 
people.  As  of  today,  Turkey  hosts  130,449  Syrians 
in  14  camps  with  sanitation,  health  and  education 
facilities.  Some  80,000  are  residing  elsewhere  in 
Turkey, making their way to various cities and towns by 
their own means. To cope with the increasing numbers, 
we  are  building  more  facilities  and  trying  to  meet  the 
humanitarian demand. However, as highlighted by the 
Secretary-General and the Special Joint Representative 
this  morning,  plans  for  humanitarian  response  to  the 
crisis  in  Syria  are  severely  underfunded  and  require 
further attention from the international community.
Still,  efforts  on  the  humanitarian  front  are  not 
enough to address the root cause of the crisis. Towards 
that  end,  Turkey  will  continue  to  support  Special 
Representative  Brahimi  and  the  legitimate  aspirations 
of the Syrian people.
The people of the Middle East rightfully deserve a 
dignified life and the dividends of democracy and peace. 
Each and every nation will have its own way of addressing 
the question. Yet the international community’s stance 
in  each  case  should  be  identical  —  a  staunch  support 
for  universal  values  and  principles  that  uphold  human 
dignity, and respect for unity and territorial integrity.
On that note, allow me to commend the leadership 
of  President  Mahmoud  Abbas  and  to  conclude  by 
congratulating  the  Palestinian  delegation  in  the  Hall, 
as well as the people of the State of Palestine. Now it is 
time for all of us to encourage the two States to live side 
by side in peace.
Mrs.  Comesaña  Perdomo  (Cuba)  (spoke 
in 
Spanish): Cuba once again congratulates the Palestinian 
people  and  leaders  on  their  historic  victory  yesterday. 
Cuba  believes  that  this  is  a  further  step  on  the  path 
towards  the  recognition  of  a  State  of  Palestine.  We 
call  on  the  Security  Council  to  take  a  decision  in  this 
respect and respond to the demands of the Palestinian 
people and the majority of the Member States.
The situation in the region, especially in the occupied 
Palestinian  territories,  continues  to  be  deplorable.  In 
A/67/PV.47
the  Gaza  Strip,  the  most  recent  escalation  of  violence 
unleashed  by  Israeli  military  forces  left  hundreds  of 
innocent victims dead, including women and children, 
and more than a thousand wounded. Cuba reiterates its 
serious concern regarding the continuing deterioration 
of  the  situation  in  the  region,  particularly  as  a  result 
of  the  excessive  and  indiscriminate  use  of  force  by 
Israel  against  the  civilian  Palestinian  population  and 
many  other  illegal  policies  and  practices,  such  as 
the  expansion  of  Israeli  settlements,  the  continued 
violations of human rights and systematic war crimes, 
which inf lict great suffering on the Palestinian people.
Israel’s bellicose policy undermines the stability of 
the entire Middle East and thus international peace. Its 
lack  of  respect  for  international  law  and  its  continued 
illegal  occupation  of  the  Palestinian  territories  and 
other Arab territories continue to be the major obstacles 
to the achievement of a just, lasting and comprehensive 
peace in the region. 
We repeat the call on the international community to 
require the Israeli authorities to abstain from any action 
that would lead to a new escalation of the situation. We 
demand  the  immediate  lifting  of  the  illegal,  cruel  and 
genocidal  blockade  against  the  Palestinian  people  in 
the  Gaza  Strip,  the  opening  of  border  crossings  and 
the  free  circulation  of  goods  to  and  from  that  area. 
Permanent  humanitarian  access  must  be  guaranteed, 
as  must  the  implementation  of  legal  obligations  under 
the Fourth Geneva Convention and the relevant United 
Nations  resolutions.  In  the  same  vein,  we  call  for  an 
immediate end to the demolition of Palestinian houses, 
the  construction  of  the  wall  and  the  displacement 
of  Palestinian  families  in  East  Jerusalem,  as  well  as 
all  other  acts  of  incitement,  provocation  and  illegal 
aggression carried out by extremist settlers against the 
Palestinian people and holy sites. 
Another  obstacle  to  the  achievement  of  a  lasting 
peace  in  the  region  is  the  ongoing  occupation  and  de 
facto annexation of the Syrian Golan. Cuba regards as 
null,  void  and  without  legal  effect  all  legislative  and 
administrative measures and actions that Israel has taken 
or could take with the aim of changing the legal status, 
physical  character  or  demographic  composition  of  the 
occupied  Syrian  Golan  and  its  institutional  structure, 
as  well  as  Israeli  measures  to  enforce  its  jurisdiction 
and  administration  in  that  area.  Israel’s  decision  of 
14 December 1981 to impose its legislation, jurisdiction 
and administration in the occupied Syrian Golan and the 
illegal settlement construction and expansion activities 
12-62371
3
A/67/PV.47
in  that  territory  since  1977  constitute  a  f lagrant 
violation of international law, international conventions 
and the Charter and resolutions of the United Nations, 
in  particular  Security  Council  resolution  497  (1981) 
and  the  Geneva  Convention  relative  to  the  Protection 
of Civilian Persons in Time of War, of 12 August 1949.
Cuba strongly condemns the brutal Israeli practices 
in the prisons created since the occupation and reiterates 
its  serious  concern  about  the  inhumane  conditions 
experienced  by  those  detained  in  the  occupied  Syrian 
Golan.  This  has  harmed  their  physical  health  and  put 
their  lives  at  risk,  in  clear  violation  of  international 
humanitarian law.
Cuba  has  closely  followed  the  events  in  Syria. 
We  reiterate  our  position  on  the  manoeuvres  by 
certain NATO countries to get the Security Council to 
legitimize  aggression  against  Syria.  In  doing  so,  they 
are counting on the complicity of major media outlets, 
which  are  used  to  distorting  reality  and  not  having 
to  answer  for  the  consequences  of  their  actions.  The 
incitements to violence, military aggression and foreign 
intervention advocated in some of the press and by high-
ranking politicians are cause for serious concern. Cuba 
denounces those actions aimed at justifying aggression 
against the Syrian people. 
Cuba shares the concern about the loss of innocent 
lives in Syria, as in any part of the world, and condemns 
all acts of violence taking place in that country. At the 
same time, we reiterate our categorical rejection of any 
type of foreign intervention, whether direct or indirect, 
including logistical support to irregular armed groups. 
An intervention by foreign forces in Syria would have 
serious  consequences  for  international  peace  and 
security,  in  particular  for  the  Middle  East.  Given  the 
experiences  and  precedents  created  by  recent  cases 
in  which  we  saw  manipulation  of  the  Charter  of  the 
United Nations, double standards and f lagrant violation 
of  international  law,  we  reiterate  our  rejection  of  any 
attempt  to  undermine  the  independence,  sovereignty 
and territorial integrity of Syria. 
The  role  of  the  international  community  in  these 
times  of  difficulty  for  a  Member  State  is  to  provide 
assistance  in  order  to  safeguard  peace  and  stability  in 
that country. We reaffirm our confidence in the capacity 
of  the  Syrian  people  and  Government  to  resolve  their 
internal  problems  without  foreign  intervention.  We 
demand  full  respect  for  the  self-determination  and 
sovereignty of that Arab country.
Cuba reiterates once more its support for the Middle 
East peace process on the basis of the provisions of the 
Arab  Peace  Initiative,  the  road  map  and  the  principle 
of land for peace. We reject the attempts to change the 
mandate of the peace process, and we denounce Israel’s 
implementation  of  unilateral  measures  and  strategies 
aimed  at  imposing  an  illegal  unilateral  solution.  The 
Palestinian people have the inalienable right to establish 
an  independent,  sovereign  State,  with  East  Jerusalem 
as  its  capital.  We  call  for  the  unconditional  return  of 
all  Arab  territories  occupied  in  June  1977.  This  is  the 
only way to achieve a just and lasting peace for all the 
peoples of the region.
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  Please  allow  me,  at  the  outset,  to  extend  our 
sincere  thanks  to  my  dear  colleague,  the  Permanent 
Representative  of  the  Arab  Republic  of  Egypt,  for 
his  introduction  of  draft  resolutions  A/67/L.23  and 
A/67/L.24,  on  occupied  Jerusalem  and  the  occupied 
Syrian Golan, respectively. 
I would also like to begin my statement with a special 
appeal to all colleagues, in particular those who extend 
their goodwill to my country, not to discuss the issue of 
my country, since we are now discussing the situation in 
the Middle East. As we all know, this is an item that for 
decades has been mostly concerned with putting an end 
to the Israeli occupation of Arab territories. No matter 
how good the intent, any discussion of the situation in 
my  country  at  present  would  distract  from  the  central 
issue, which is the situation in the Middle East. Those 
who would like to discuss the issue of the Syrian Arab 
Republic may do that when the issue of the Syrian Arab 
Republic is under discussion.
Perhaps it would be useful at the outset to recall that 
all  laws,  including  international  law,  are  promulgated 
for  the  purpose  of  being  implemented,  and  that  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  other  international 
instruments  were  adopted  for  the  purpose  of  being 
respected,  and  that  resolutions  of  the  United  Nations, 
particularly  those  regarding  the  rejection  of  foreign 
occupation  of  the  land  of  others,  were  also  adopted 
to  be  implemented.  That  is  all  supposed  to  be  taken 
seriously  and  to  be  applied  to  all  without  exception. 
I  do  not  believe  that  any  representative  of  a  State 
that  joined  the  Organization  for  its  noble  objectives, 
with  a  view  to  establishing  international  peace  and 
security  and  justice,  would  think  that  he  came  here 
to  adopt  resolutions  that  later  become  dead  letters  or 
to  only  invoke  certain  provisions  of  international  law 
4 
12-62371
A/67/PV.47
when  making  statements  under  the  auspices  of  the 
Organization. 
peoples  and  our  region,  and  it  would  also  undermine 
the United Nations in its entirety.
Here  we  are  today,  meeting  again  for  perhaps 
the  hundredth  time,  or  maybe  the  thousandth  or  ten-
thousandth time, to call on Israel to end its occupation 
of  Arab  territories,  to  end  its  racist  and  inhumane 
policies,  its  violations  of  international  instruments 
and  norms,  its  feverish  settlement  campaigns  and  the 
systematic  killing  of  civilians  in  the  occupied  Arab 
territories. In spite of the foregoing, in spite of all the 
appeals of the international community, there has been 
no  progress  whatsoever  so  far  in  putting  an  end  to 
Israeli occupation or stopping its politics of aggression. 
On  the  contrary,  matters  have  gotten  worse  in  the 
light  of  Israel’s  f lagrant  disregard  for  international 
legitimacy  and  for  all  human  and  moral  values  and 
of  its  complete  disregard  for  the  United  Nations 
resolutions  on  the  issue.  In  addition,  there  has  been 
an  unprecedented  wave  of  settlement-building  and 
continued  escalation  of  Israeli  violence,  most  recently 
the  aggression  against  Gaza,  threatening  the  region 
with catastrophic consequences and raising the spectre 
of war at the expense of the prospects for peace. 
Settlement activities, which have been condemned 
and  declared  objectionable  legally  and  internationally, 
continue.  There  seems  to  be  acceptable  settlement 
activity  pursuant  to  the  policy  of  fait  accompli,  and 
there is settlement activity that is justified in the name 
of  so-called  demographic  expansion.  Then  there  is 
settlement  activity  that  is  maintained  for  the  purpose 
of  negotiating  exchange  for  other  lands,  and  there  is 
blind, indiscriminate settlement activity that is subject 
to negotiations. There is also settlement activity that is 
not  to  be  discussed  because  it  touches  on  the  sanctity 
of  the  Israeli  occupation  of  Arab  territories.  Even 
internationally  and  legally  condemned  and  rejected 
settlement activity has become, for some, a negotiable 
issue. 
The  manner  in  which  the  United  Nations  and 
its  Member  States  have  dealt  with  the  Arab-Israeli 
conf lict  can  no  longer  be  a  routine  act  of  solidarity 
without  serious  activity  and  tangible  results.  Israel’s 
intransigence  and  the  support  it  gets  from  certain 
countries should not lead to an admission of failure by 
the United Nations to uphold its duties pursuant to the 
Charter and its own resolutions. If that were to happen, 
it  would  lead  to  catastrophic  consequences  for  our 
In  that  connection,  we  would  like  to  note  that 
transferring the issue of peace in the Middle East from 
the United Nations to the international Quartet has not 
accomplished anything with respect to the issue at hand. 
In some ways, it has diminished the role of the United 
Nations and paralysed it, transferring its leading role to 
suspect mediators whose role is confined to providing 
blind  support  to  Israel  and  continued  justification  for 
that  country’s  criminal  behaviour  and  aggression. 
There  has  not  been  a  single  meeting  of  the  Quartet 
during the current session of the General Assembly or 
even  during  the  Israeli  aggression  against  Gaza.  For 
that matter, the United Nations itself failed to hold even 
a  single  meeting  during  the  recent  Israeli  aggression 
against Gaza. 
More than 45 years have passed since Israel occupied 
the  Syrian  Golan.  However,  those  long  years  do  not 
seem to be enough for Israel to abide by relevant United 
Nations resolutions that require it to end its occupation 
of  the  Syrian  Golan  and  to  cease  its  systematic  and 
serious  violations  of  human  rights  and  the  policies  of 
terror,  oppression,  racial  discrimination  and  arbitrary 
arrest  of  Syrian  citizens  suffering  under  the  yoke  of 
occupation  in  the  Syrian  Golan.  Those  policies  place 
restrictions on all aspects of their lives, including their 
right  to  stay  in  contact  with  their  motherland,  Syria. 
Matters have reached the point where the Israelis have 
put a 2-year-old child under house arrest and separated 
him from his mother, a student at Damascus University, 
because she gave birth to him in Syria. When she took 
him back to the Golan, that Syrian child of the age of 
2 did not have the right to go to the Golan, in the view 
of the Israelis. 
The  Israeli  occupation  authorities  continue  their 
feverish  settlement  activities  in  the  Golan  and  have 
built an apartheid wall east of the Syrian city of Majdal 
Shams and refuse to turn over maps of landmines planted 
in  the  Golan  territories  to  international  organizations, 
including  our  Organization.  The  explosions  of  cluster 
bombs  and  mines  planted  by  the  Israelis  in  the  Golan 
have so far taken the lives of 726 Syrians, 227 of whom 
were children, most recently two children who lost their 
lives early last month due to the explosion of a mine. 
We  have  informed  the  Secretariat  of  all  those 
violations,  the  most  recent  of  which  is  an  increase  in 
the number of kidnappings of Syrian citizens from the 
12-62371
5
A/67/PV.47
Syrian  side  of  the  disengagement  area  by  the  Israeli 
occupying forces. Things have become so serious that 
Israel is now supporting armed terrorist groups that are 
spreading  east  of  the  United  Nations  Disengagement 
Observer  Force  area  of  operation.  It  is  truly  regrettable 
that  in  spite  of  all  of  the  documented  Israeli  crimes 
and  the  United  Nations  resolutions  condemning  those 
crimes  without  reservation,  the  Israeli  civilian  and 
military  authorities  continue  to  avoid  international 
accountability,  thanks  to  the  illegitimate  immunity 
permitted them by certain States.
Certainly, it was noticed by all who were present in 
this  Hall  yesterday  that  the  officials  of  the  occupying 
Israeli  Government  justified  their  objection  to  the 
according  of  United  Nations  non-member  observer 
State  status  to  Palestine  by  stating  that  if  Palestine 
were  accorded  its  full  right  to  membership,  it  would 
later  become  possible  for  the  Palestinian  State  to 
pursue  claims  against  Israeli  war  criminals  before  the 
International Criminal Court. That was the justification 
for their objection, and thus their admission proves that 
they truly are war criminals. 
Perhaps  it  is  clear  to  all  that  the  illegitimate 
immunity  the  Zionists  have  enjoyed  since  they  took 
over  Palestine  has  acted  as  a  green  light  that  has  not 
changed  to  date.  Rather,  that  green  light  has  allowed 
the  Israeli  leaders  to  continue  their  intransigence  and 
their escalated crimes of aggression. It has prompted us 
not only to condemn the Israeli occupying authorities, 
but also to place responsibility, clearly, on the shoulders 
of  certain 
that  ensure  Israel’s 
immunity  and  provide  it  with  protection  and  cover  in 
international forums, including in the Security Council 
and  within  the  Quartet.  It  has  exposed  the  politics  of 
double standards used by those States, as well as their 
unprecedented  hypocrisy  in  terms  of  certain  noble 
issues,  such  as  protection  of  civilians,  promotion  of 
human  rights,  respect  for  international  law  and  the 
implementation of United Nations resolutions. 
inf luential  States 
The option of a just and comprehensive peace will 
not be possible absent the complete withdrawal by Israel 
from all of the Arab territories to the borders of 4 June 
1967, the establishment of the independent Palestinian 
State with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital, and a just 
solution  to  the  issue  of  Palestinian  refugees,  based 
on  resolution  194  (III)  of  1948.  All  actions  must  be 
carried out in accordance with relevant United Nations 
resolutions,  foremost  among  them  Security  Council 
resolutions  242  (1967),  338  (1973)  and  497  (1981),  on 
the occupied Syrian Golan.
In  conclusion,  I  call  upon  Member  States  to  vote 
in  favour  of  draft  resolution  A/67/L.23,  on  occupied 
Jerusalem,  and  draft  resolution  A/67/L.24,  on  the 
occupied Syrian Golan, in order to uphold international 
law  and  promote  the  purposes  and  principles  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations.
Mr. Haniff (Malaysia): Developments over the past 
few  weeks,  in  particular  Israel’s  attack  on  the  people 
of  Palestine  in  Gaza,  have  sparked  an  international 
crisis  that  nearly  caused  instability  and  turmoil  in  the 
whole  region.  What  deeply  concerns  my  delegation  is 
that  despite  the  gravity  of  the  situation,  the  Security 
Council was rendered powerless, not just to bring about 
an immediate cessation of hostilities, but even to decide 
whether to act or not. We, the international community, 
cannot  allow  that  to  happen  again.  We  cannot  remain 
unwilling  to  act,  as  failure  to  act  would  demonstrate 
the  ineffectiveness  of  the  current  multilateral  system, 
particularly  the  Security  Council  and  the  United 
Nations. 
Time and again, we are faced with the situation in 
the  Middle  East,  especially  the  question  of  Palestine. 
Malaysia  believes  that  in  order  to  avoid  being  faced 
with a similar situation in the future, we need to address 
the crux of the issue and resolve the conf lict once and 
for all.
Today  we  are  still  no  closer  to  resolving  the 
question of Palestine. In fact, if we were to take a closer 
look,  we  would  find  that  we  are  much  further  away 
from  a  peaceful  settlement  than  at  any  time  before, 
because  the  situation  on  the  ground  has  deteriorated. 
Israel  has  continued  to  take  all  measures  to  change 
the  demographic  features  of  the  occupied  territory, 
systematically  displacing  Palestinians  from  the  West 
Bank and East Jerusalem. At the same time, the illegal 
blockade of Gaza continues to suffocate the people. 
When will this end? Do not the people of Palestine 
deserve a better future and to live in dignity?
Israel  has  continued  to  violate  international  law, 
including  humanitarian  and  human  rights  law,  for  far 
too long. It has continued to ignore international calls to 
respect, adhere to and abide by the Geneva Conventions 
and  all  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions.  The 
international  community  has  not  been  able  to  hold 
Israel accountable for all its deliberate acts of violence. 
6 
12-62371
Instead,  Israel  continues  to  act  aggressively  against 
Palestinian  civilians,  and  it  does  so  with  impunity.  I 
wonder why.
The  only  way  forward  is  for  Israel  to  respect 
international  law,  including  humanitarian  and  human 
rights  law.  It  should  cease  all  illegal  settlement 
activities and restart negotiations in good faith, which 
would demonstrate its intention to truly bring an end to 
the conf lict. It must realize and accept that a lasting and 
just solution to the question on Palestine will not only 
benefit the Palestinians, but would contribute to Israel’s 
own safety and security.
For  our  part,  the  international  community  must 
reject any further delay in the resumption of peace talks. 
We must ensure that the parties return to the negotiating 
table without further delay. We must continue to uphold 
the  principles  for  the  establishment  of  a  Palestinian 
State  under  the  two-State  solution  based  on  the  pre-
1967  borders,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital.  Only 
then can Israelis and Palestinians have any chance for a 
stable and better future. 
I  call  upon  the  Security  Council  and  the  Middle 
East  Quartet  to  do  what  they  have  been  mandated  to 
do,  namely,  to  find  a  just  and  lasting  solution  to  the 
question of Palestine. Further inaction is not a choice, 
and time is not on our side.
Malaysia  is  fully  aware  of  the  situation  in  the 
occupied  Syrian  Golan.  Malaysia  will  continue  to 
support  the  restoration  of  Syrian  sovereignty  over  the 
occupied  Syrian  Golan.  We  urge  Israel  to  withdraw 
from  the  occupied  Syrian  Golan  to  the  line  of  4  June 
1967.  All  measures  and  actions  undertaken  by  Israel, 
including  the  construction  and  expansion  of  illegal 
settlements  in  the  occupied  Syrian  Golan  since  1967, 
constitute  f lagrant  violations  of  international  law,  the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  relevant  United 
Nations resolutions.
The same can be said for the territories of Lebanon 
under  Israeli  occupation.  We  condemn  the  continued 
violations  and  aggression  by  Israel.  We  strongly  urge 
Israel  to  fully  implement  Security  Council  resolution 
1701 (2006), which calls for a permanent ceasefire, the 
complete  withdrawal  of  Israeli  troops  from  Lebanon, 
and full respect for the Blue Line. Israel must withdraw 
from  the  Shab’a  farmlands,  the  Kafr  Shuba  hills  and 
the  Lebanese  part  of  Ghajar  village  up  to  behind  the 
Blue Line. 
A/67/PV.47
Yesterday  we  celebrated  the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People.  Palestine  has 
been  accorded  the  status  of  a  non-member  observer 
State  in  the  General  Assembly.  It  is  something  to 
celebrate,  although  full  membership  in  the  United 
Nations is the ultimate goal. Malaysia believes that this 
marks  the  first  step  for  Palestine  towards  becoming 
a  sovereign  State.  In  moving  forward,  we  call  on  all 
Member States, including the permanent members of the 
Security Council, to support the admission of Palestine 
as  a  full  State  Member  of  the  United  Nations,  as  that 
is  a  legitimate  aspiration  shared  by  an  overwhelming 
majority of Member States.
Mr. Li Baodong (China) (spoke in Chinese): China 
has  always  firmly  supported  the  just  cause  of  the 
Palestinian people in seeking to restore their legitimate 
rights as a nation and to establish a fully sovereign and 
independent Palestinian State on the basis of the 1967 
borders, with East Jerusalem as its capital. 
Yesterday, the General Assembly adopted resolution 
67/19,  granting  Palestine  the  status  of  non-member 
observer  State.  That  is  a  further  positive  development 
towards  the  realization  of  independent  Palestinian 
statehood.  The  resolution  also  shows  the  international 
community’s extensive support for the just cause of the 
Palestinian people in seeking to restore their legitimate 
rights.
Dialogue and negotiation are the only viable means 
for resolving the question of Palestine and Israel. China 
has always maintained that the two parties should settle 
their differences through dialogue and negotiation and 
on the basis of the relevant resolutions, the principle of 
land  for  peace,  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  and  the  road 
map for peace in the Middle East, so as to achieve the 
goal of two States, Palestine and Israel, living side by 
side in peace.
China  is  greatly  concerned  about  the  continuing 
deadlock in the peace talks between the two parties. The 
recent clashes in the Gaza Strip once again demonstrate 
that  the  current  status  quo  in  the  Palestinian  question 
is  not  sustainable.  China  calls  on  both  parties,  in 
particular  Israel,  the  stronger  Power,  to  move  forward 
in the general interest of peace, take specific measures 
to  remove  obstacles  and  build  mutual  trust  with  the 
Palestinian side, so as to establish favourable conditions 
for the early resumption of peace talks and to achieve 
meaningful progress.
12-62371
7
A/67/PV.47
The 
should 
community 
international 
fully 
recognize  the  importance  and  urgency  of  the  need  to 
promote  progress  in  the  Middle  East  peace  process. It 
should  make  even  greater  efforts  to  support  the  peace 
talks.  It  should  urge  the  two  sides  to  meet  each  other 
halfway, so as to overcome the current impasse in the 
peace talks as soon as possible.
The  current  humanitarian  situation  in  the  Gaza 
Strip  and  the  other  occupied  Palestinian  territories 
remains  severe.  The  Palestinian  economy  is  facing 
serious  difficulties.  None  of  the  above  conditions  is 
conducive  to  progress  in  the  Palestinian-Israeli  peace 
process or to regional stability. China calls on Israel to 
fully implement the relevant United Nations resolutions 
and  to  remove  the  blockade  on  the  Gaza  Strip,  so  as 
to alleviate the humanitarian plight of the inhabitants. 
The  international  community  should  provide  more 
assistance and support to Palestine. China will provide 
all possible assistance to the Palestinian people.
The Syrian-Israeli and Lebanese-Israeli tracks are 
also  important  components  in  the  Middle  East  peace 
process.  A  comprehensive  solution  to  the  Middle  East 
question  will  not  be  achieved  without  fully  resolving 
the  issues  between  the  three  countries.  China  firmly 
supports 
legitimate  aspirations  of  Syria  and 
Lebanon  to  maintain  their  national  sovereignty  and 
territorial 
the  occupied 
Palestinian  territories.  We  support  the  efforts  and 
strategic choices of Member States in seeking a lasting 
and comprehensive peace in the region. 
integrity  and 
to  recover 
the 
China  attaches  great  importance  to  the  Middle 
East issue and will always support the peace talks and 
promote  progress  in  the  peace  process  with  its  own 
approach. China supports the role of the United Nations 
in  the  Middle  East  issue  and  stands  ready  to  work 
together  with  the  parties  concerned  to  play  a  positive 
and  constructive  role  in  achieving  a  comprehensive, 
just and lasting peace in the Middle East region as soon 
as possible. 
Mr.  Khazaee  (Islamic  Republic  of  Iran):  At  the 
outset,  I  would  like  to  congratulate  Palestine  on  the 
overwhelming support that it received during the voting 
on resolution 67/19 on the enhancement of its status at 
the  United  Nations.  I  once  again  wish  to  express  our 
solidarity with the people of Palestine.
Palestine lies at the core of the Middle East issue. 
The  tragedy  of  Palestine  is  a  major  source  of  the 
resentment  and  desperation  that  is  felt  throughout  the 
world, especially in the Muslim world. This meeting is 
taking place a week after yet another tragic episode in 
the series of repeated and grave crimes perpetrated by 
the Zionist regime against the Palestinian people in the 
occupied Palestinian territories. 
The  Israeli  regime,  with  unbridled  impunity, 
intensified  its  military  aggression  against  the  Gaza 
Strip,  killing,  wounding  and  maiming  Palestinian 
civilians,  including  women,  the  elderly  and  children. 
In  a  statement  welcoming  the  recent  ceasefire,  the 
Committee  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  said  that  the 
attack by Israel would have a “devastating and lasting 
impact” on children and stressed that the recent crisis 
would  have  long-term  psychological  effects  on  young 
people: 
“This  impact  extends  from  a  large  number  of 
deaths  and  injuries  in  Gaza  to  deep  trauma  and 
other  psychological  effects  on  children  …  These 
experiences  may  affect  them  for  many  years  to 
come, including into adulthood.”
The Israeli regime’s deadly air strikes and shelling 
of Gaza should be considered as part of a broader policy, 
marked  by  expansionism,  aggression,  oppression, 
collective  punishment,  extrajudicial  killings,  targeted 
assassinations and State terrorism, all in gross violation 
of international law, as was the act of occupation from 
the  very  outset.  The  recent  Israeli  crimes  in  the  Gaza 
Strip would undoubtedly create more instability, serve 
to  inf lame  tension  and  threaten  to  further  destabilize 
the situation in the region. The question is, “How much 
longer  is  the  world  willing  to  endure  this  spectacle  of 
wanton cruelty?”, to quote Bertrand Russell.
The  international  community  should  live  up  to  its 
responsibilities by preventing Israel from continuing to 
commit atrocities and to f lout international law, norms 
and  standards.  Regrettably,  some  powerful  Member 
States  that  happen  to  be  permanent  members  of  the 
Security Council have, as a result of their unconditional 
support for Israel, prevented the Security Council from 
taking  concrete  action  against  the  crimes  committed 
by Israel. The obstructionist role played by those same 
members  in  the  General  Assembly,  notably  yesterday 
on the issue of upgrading the status of Palestine at the 
United  Nations,  was  another  manifestation  of  those 
States’ blind support for Israel with regard to preventing 
the Palestinian people from exercising their legitimate 
rights. Restrictions by the same States with respect to 
assistance to Palestine are tantamount to punishing the 
8 
12-62371
A/67/PV.47
Palestinians  for  exercising  their  basic  rights  to  shape 
their fate and future.
to  have.  That  is  the  only  solution,  in  our  view,  for  a 
peaceful settlement of the Palestinian crisis.
In  the  same  vein,  the  provocative  declarations 
by  the  Israeli  regime  concerning  the  acceleration 
of  construction  and  the  revocation  of  Palestinian 
residency  rights  amount  to  political  extortion  of  the 
Palestinian  people.  Such  statements  confirm  that  the 
Israeli  regime  has  opted  for  settlement  and  residency 
issues as an instrument to block legitimate Palestinian 
demands. It should be noted that the Israeli demolition 
of  Palestinian  homes  and  property,  accompanied  by 
escalating  violence  by  settlers  and  forced  evictions,  is 
seriously exacerbating the situation on the ground.
The  humanitarian  situation  of  the  Palestinians, 
especially  in  the  Gaza  Strip,  also  remains  a  source  of 
grave concern. That disastrous situation must be ended 
by  calling  on  the  Israeli  regime  to  lift  the  siege  of 
Gaza  and  open  all  border  crossings  for  the  movement 
of goods and persons, in accordance with international 
humanitarian  law  and  the  relevant  resolutions  of  the 
United Nations.
Yesterday  we  observed  the  International  Day  of 
Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian  People.  The  solidarity 
and  support  enjoyed  by  the  Palestinian  people  will 
undoubtedly  have  strengthened  their  steadfastness 
injustices  and  occupation.  The  result  of 
against 
yesterday’s  vote  on 
resolution  67/19,  granting 
non-member observer State status to Palestine, showed 
the extent of the isolation of the Israeli regime. It sent 
a  signal  to  those  who  blindly  support  that  illegitimate 
regime that they seriously need to review their policies 
and approaches vis-à-vis that regime.
With reference to that resolution adopted yesterday 
under  agenda  item  37,  and  those  to  be  adopted  today 
under  agenda  item  36,  I  would  like  to  reiterate  once 
again  that  the  solution  to  the  question  of  Palestine, 
which  is  at  the  crux  of  the  conf lict  in  the  Middle 
East,  lies  in  compelling  the  Israeli  occupying  Power 
to  fully  withdraw  from  the  occupied  territories  and 
enabling  the  Palestinian  people  to  return  to  their  land 
and  establish  their  independent  State  on  the  entirety 
of Palestinian land. The Palestinian people, regardless 
of  their  religion  or  ethnicity,  should  freely  express, 
through  a  democratic  and  peaceful  mechanism  —  a 
referendum, with the participation of all the inhabitants 
of  Palestine  —  their  opinions  regarding  their  fate  and 
future and the kind of State and Government they want 
Before concluding, I would like to place on record 
that  my  delegation  rejects  the  baseless  allegations 
raised  against  my  country  in  this  Hall  yesterday  by 
the  representative  of  Israel.  This  is  yet  another  weary 
practice by the Israeli regime and its advocate to divert 
the international community’s attention from the Israeli 
crimes  in  Palestine  and  elsewhere  in  the  region  by 
raising  unfounded  allegations  against  others.  I  do  not 
want to take up the Assembly’s time to respond to those 
irresponsible claims. However, in the context of Israel’s 
defiance  of  the  international  community,  I  would  like 
to refer to only one aspect of the dangerous behaviour 
of that regime — the infamous Israeli nuclear weapons 
programme,  which  is  a  showcase  of  five  decades  of 
concealment  and  deception  and  of  total  disregard  for 
the demands of the international community. 
Nuclear weapons in the hands of a regime with an 
unparalleled record of State terrorism and of resorting 
to aggression and threats of force against other countries 
present  a  real  threat  to  regional  and  global  peace  and 
security and to the non-proliferation regime. That threat 
needs  to  be  urgently  and  decisively  addressed  by  the 
international community, and the initiative to create a 
zone free of weapons of mass destruction in the Middle 
East should be actively pursued. 
In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  echo  the  statement 
issued  yesterday  by  the  Non-Aligned  Movement, 
registering 
its  profound  disappointment  regarding 
some  of  the  statements  issued  by  the  conveners  of  the 
2012 conference on the establishment of a Middle East 
zone  free  of  nuclear  weapons  and  other  weapons  on 
mass  destruction.  Those  statements  called  for  a  delay 
in  convening  the  conference,  which  was  scheduled  to 
take place in 2012, out of fear that the conference would 
further  isolate  the  Israeli  regime.  We  believe  that  the 
failure to convene the conference before the end of this 
year contradicts and violates the collective agreement of 
the States parties to the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation 
of Nuclear Weapons and that it should therefore be held 
as originally scheduled.
Mrs.  Al-Mughairy  (Oman):  On  behalf  of  the 
delegation of the Sultanate of Oman, I have the pleasure 
to  express  to  President  Vuk  Jeremić  our  appreciation 
for  the  convening  of  this  special  meeting  to  consider 
the  issue  of  Palestine  and  the  situation  in  the  Middle 
East.  My  country’s  delegation  would  like  to  convey, 
12-62371
9
A/67/PV.47
through  him,  its  appreciation  to  Mr.  Abdou  Salam 
Diallo,  Permanent  Representative  of  the  Republic  of 
Senegal,  for  his  efforts  as  Chair  of  the  Committee  on 
the Exercise of the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian 
People and for its report (A/67/35). 
I shall address the two items entitled “Question of 
Palestine” and “The situation in the Middle East”.
At  the  outset,  from  the  international  forum  of 
the  General  Assembly,  my  country  congratulates  the 
Palestinian  people  on  the  historic  accomplishment 
yesterday, 29 November, with the Assembly’s adoption 
of resolution 67/19, promoting the State of Palestine to the 
status of a non-member State in the United Nations. My 
country hopes that this may lead to other achievements, 
including  the  attainment  of  full  membership  in  the 
United Nations by the State of Palestine.
the 
international  community.  Meanwhile, 
There  is  no  doubt  that  the  present  meeting  is  of 
special  importance,  as  it  will  consider  an  issue —  the 
question of Palestine — that is a long-standing challenge 
to 
the 
Palestinian  people  remain  under  occupation  and 
their  situation  worsens  by  the  day  as  a  result  of  the 
systematic,  oppressive  practices  by  the  occupying 
Power.  The  international  community  must  not  remain 
silent and allow this situation to continue. 
We are now in the sixth decade of the occupation, 
the  displacement  and  destruction  of  human 
and 
beings  and  infrastructure  continues.  Yet  the  proud 
Palestinian people remain undiscouraged and continue 
to  insist  their  legitimate  rights,  represented  through 
the establishment of their independent State with East 
Jerusalem as its capital.
The  Government  of  my  country  expresses  its 
deep  concern  at  the  tragic  situation  in  the  occupied 
Palestinian  territories  resulting  from  the  continuous 
Israeli blockade, the imposition of a humanitarian crisis 
on civilians in the Gaza Strip, the intensive campaign of 
inhumane and illegal acts in the form of fierce attacks 
seeking to change the demographic composition of the 
population  and  forced  displacement  of  the  indigenous 
people, and the practices of the occupying Power in the 
noble Al-Quds and around religious sites. In addition, 
Israeli settlement activities, including the construction 
of  settlement  units  in  occupied  East  Jerusalem,  are 
intensified  and  are  consistently  employed  as  punitive 
measures.
This year marks the thirty-fifth anniversary of the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People and marks as well the sixty-fifth anniversary of 
the  Assembly’s  adoption  of  resolution  181  (II),  on  the 
division of the land of Palestine into two States, in 1947. 
The Palestinians are still prevented from exercising their 
legitimate rights and their national sovereignty — their 
right of self-determination. This situation has led to the 
existence  of  more  than  4  million  Palestinian  refugees 
suffering from alienation, deprivation and the diaspora.
The Palestinian people depend on the international 
community  to  protect  them  from  the  inhuman,  illegal 
and  arbitrary  acts  against  them  by  successive  Israeli 
Governments.  Hence,  the  international  community 
should  stand  in  opposition  to  those  practices.  They 
include  in  particular  the  embargo  on  the  Gaza  Strip 
launched  in  2008,  the  attack  on  the  freedom  convoy 
transporting  humanitarian  assistance,  which  was 
undertaken  to  remove  the  unjust  embargo  imposed  by 
Israel  on  Gaza  in  f lagrant  violation  of  human  rights, 
and the war of November 2012, which proves that Israel 
is not interested in achieving peace. 
It  is  necessary  for  the  international  community  to 
send a clear message to Israel to cease those practices 
and  to  call  for  genuine  negotiations  that  will  lead  to 
the establishment of security and stability on the basis 
and  principles  of  land  for  peace,  Security  Council 
resolutions  242  (1967)  and  338  (1973)  and  the  Arab 
Peace Initiative.
My delegation confirms what was stated in Oman’s 
intervention  during  the  general  debate  regarding  the 
complexities that arise in any discussion of the question 
of  Palestine  at  General  Assembly  sessions  (see  A/67/
PV.19). We are aware of the complexities of those issues. 
The United Nations has adopted many resolutions and 
policies,  but  this  issue  is  still  a  source  of  concern  and 
represents  a  threat  of  conf lict  that  goes  beyond  the 
Middle East.
In  this  context,  my  country  believes  that  the  role 
of  the  United  Nations  in  relation  to  the  question  of 
Palestine  should  be  changed  from  managing  the  crisis 
to seriously pursuing a just and lasting comprehensive 
political  solution  that  would  take  into  account  the 
interests of the Palestinians and the Israelis, leading to 
the  establishment  of  the  State  of  Palestine,  living  side 
by side with the State of Israel. From that perspective, 
my  country  supported  the  proposal  and  was  among 
the  first  sponsors  of  resolution  67/19,  on  Palestine’s 
becoming  a  non-member  State  at  the  United  Nations. 
We  did  so  hoping  that  would  usher  in  a  new  phase  in 
10 
12-62371
the  concept  of  the  Palestinian-Israeli  relationship,  one 
which  could  contribute  positively  to  the  settlement  of 
this problem.
The  Government  of  the  Sultanate  of  Oman  is 
looking  forward  to  an  effective  and  continuous  role 
of  the  United  States  of  America,  especially  after  the 
positive  position  declared  by  President  Barack  Obama 
during the Assembly’s sixty-fifth session, in September 
2010 (see A/65/PV.11), which was welcomed by all. My 
Government  invites  Israel  to  seize  this  opportunity 
and  take  advantage  of  the  international  momentum  in 
support of direct negotiations to achieve a partnership 
of peace and security with the Arab countries.
The Sultanate of Oman was one of the ﬁ rst countries 
to  welcome  the  peace  process  and  considered  it  a 
natural  and  civilized  approach  to  settling  differences 
through  dialogue  and  negotiations.  Oman  invites  the 
concerned parties to the peace process to play an active 
role in the settlement of the conf lict in the Middle East 
because of the seriousness of the situation in the region 
and the crisis witnessed by the region. That will require 
the  Security  Council  and  the  Quartet  to  work  more 
vigorously  and  urgently  for  a  just  and  comprehensive 
solution  to  the  Israeli-Arab  conf lict,  according  to  the 
relevant international resolutions, the principle of land 
for peace and the Arab Peace Initiative.
Mr.  Yamazaki  (Japan):  On  the  commemorative 
occasion  of  the  International  Day  of  Solidarity  with 
the Palestinian People yesterday, the General Assembly 
adopted  historic  resolution  67/19,  regarding  the  status 
of  Palestine  at  the  United  Nations.  Japan  has  long 
understood  the  Palestinians’  aspiration  to  build  an 
independent  State  and  has  supported  the  right  of  the 
Palestinian  people  to  self-determination.  Japan  thus 
endorses a two-State solution under which Israel and a 
future independent Palestinian State would coexist side 
by side in peace and security. In the light of that, Japan 
voted in favour of this resolution.
Japan  believes  that  following  the  adoption  of  the 
resolution,  Palestine  will  bear  greater  responsibility 
vis-à-vis  the  international  community.  We  strongly 
urge  Palestine  to  make  more  earnest  efforts  for  the 
realization  of  peace  in  the  Middle  East.  We  call  on 
Palestine  to  immediately  resume  direct  negotiations 
with Israel in order to move the peace process forward 
in a tangible way, in cooperation with the international 
community.
A/67/PV.47
It  is  not  acceptable  to  use  this  resolution  to  act 
in  a  way  that  might  negatively  affect  or  hinder  direct 
negotiations  with  Israel.  We  ask  for  prudence  with 
respect  to  conduct  such  as  accession  to  international 
organizations, action which might negatively affect the 
prospect for the resumption of negotiations.
Israel, for its part, should improve the environment 
for promoting the resumption of peace negotiations. In 
particular,  settlement  activities  need  to  be  frozen,  as 
they are a violation of international law.
Japan requests both Palestine and Israel to establish 
relationships of mutual trust and to promptly return to 
the  negotiating  table  with  a  view  to  realizing  a  two-
State  solution.  Japan  will  continue  to  make  an  active 
contribution to moving the Middle East peace process 
forward,  in  cooperation  with  the  United  States,  Arab 
countries and other partners.
Regarding  the  situation  in  the  Gaza  Strip,  Japan 
welcomes  the  agreement  reached  by  Israel  and  the 
Palestinian  armed  groups  on  a  ceasefire  and  strongly 
hopes  that  the  ceasefire  will  be  a  lasting  one.  Japan 
had  worked  to  help  realize  the  ceasefire  and  highly 
appreciates the mediation efforts by Egypt, the United 
States  of  America,  the  Secretary-General  and  other 
relevant  countries  and  organizations.  Japan  continues 
to  support  the  efforts  of  the  international  community 
for  the  stabilization  of  the  Gaza  Strip  and  progress  in 
the Middle East peace process, and provides its utmost 
cooperation.
assistance 
for 
State-building 
With  respect  to  assistance  to  Palestine,  Japanese 
cooperation  has  been  centred  on  humanitarian 
aid, 
efforts, 
confidence-building  and  enhancing  economic  self-
sustainability.  Japan  has  extended  approximately 
$1.3  billion  in  total  since  1993.  In  addition,  Japan 
promotes  assistance  to  the  Palestinians  in  cooperation 
with  East  Asian  countries  and  is  planning  to  hold 
the  conference  on  cooperation  among  East  Asian 
countries  for  Palestinian  development  next  February 
in  Tokyo,  with  East  Asian  countries  and  international 
organizations  attending.  Japan  will  actively  promote 
assistance  for  the  building  of  a  future  independent, 
viable Palestinian State.
Let  me  now  touch  upon  the  ongoing  situation  in 
Syria.  Japan  is  deeply  concerned  by  the  serious  and 
worsening  situation  in  Syria  and  profoundly  deplores 
the  deaths  of  many  thousands  of  people  as  a  result  of 
the  continued  violence.  Japan  reiterates  its  call  on  all 
12-62371
11
A/67/PV.47
parties  in  Syria  to  immediately  halt  the  violence  and 
abuses  of  human  rights,  and  condemns  the  Syrian 
authorities  for  not  keeping  their  own  commitments 
and for not discharging their responsibilities to protect 
their own citizens. Supporting the diplomatic efforts by 
the Joint Special Representative of the United Nations 
and the League of Arab States, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, 
Japan once again urges the Syrian authorities to cease 
the  violence  immediately  and  to  carry  out  concrete 
measures for a Syrian-led political transition.
In  that  regard,  Japan  welcomes  the  establishment 
of the National Coalition for Syrian Revolutionary and 
Opposition Forces this month. The Government of Japan 
hopes that the coalition represents a wide spectrum of 
Syrian society and will play a role in the common goal 
of advancing a Syrian-led transition process as early as 
possible.  On  that  basis,  the  Government  of  Japan  will 
provide support to the coalition.
As a part of efforts by the international community 
to promote the cessation of the violence in Syria, Japan 
hosted  the  fifth  meeting  of  the  Friends  of  the  Syrian 
People  International  Working  Group  on  Sanctions 
today  in  Tokyo.  The  meeting  sought  to  improve 
the  effectiveness  of  the  sanctions  implemented  by 
like-minded countries and to broaden the horizons of the 
countries participating in the sanctions. Japan strongly 
hopes that the Syrian regime will heed the voice of the 
international community to stop the violence against its 
own people.
a 
series  of  movements 
The  Middle  East  and  North  Africa  have  been 
experiencing 
towards 
democratization. The Arab Spring was spawned by the 
people’s desire for freedom and democracy. I would like 
to take this opportunity to renew Japan’s commitment 
to  supporting  reforms  to  achieve  the  transition  to 
democracy in the region.
Mr. Yudha (Indonesia): Let me begin by expressing 
my  delegation’s  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-General 
for  his  reports  on  the  situation  in  the  Middle  East, 
contained in documents A/67/342 and A/67/364.
Our  meeting  here 
today  comes  against 
the 
background  of  yesterday’s  historic  event,  at  which 
the  Assembly  conferred  non-member  observer  State 
status  on  the  State  of  Palestine  in  adopting  resolution 
67/19. Indonesia is one of many States Members of this 
Organization that sincerely believe that the recognition 
of Palestine as an important component and ally of the 
international  community  is  something  to  be  proud  of, 
not afraid of.
Indonesia  remains  convinced  of  the  viability 
of  two  States  living  side  by  side  in  peace  within  the 
framework of a comprehensive regional settlement that 
includes  Lebanon  and  Syria,  and  under  the  terms  of 
the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions,  the  Quartet 
road  map,  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  and  the  principle 
of  land  for  peace.  To  achieve  that,  however,  demands 
that  the  parties  sit  at  the  negotiating  table  to  hammer 
out  an  agreement.  And  that,  unfortunately,  is  where 
we continue to be stopped. The reports before us make 
clear  that  developments  on  the  ground  continue  to 
damage  mutual  confidence  and  make  the  resumption 
of direct negotiations very difficult, if not impossible. 
The  reports  are  categorically  clear 
that  forward 
movement  is  being  hampered  by  the  Israeli  policy  on 
settlements, which breaches international law as well as 
the obligations of Israel under the road map.
Indonesia has always been of the view that achieving 
the  objectives  of  the  parties  in  the  conf lict  is  neither 
unrealistic nor unrealizable. The fact that a mountain is 
difficult to climb does not put it beyond conquest. That 
depends on the commitment of the mountaineers. 
The  Secretary-General  has  stated  that  peace  and 
Palestinian  statehood  are  long  overdue.  Indonesia 
agrees, and would like to amplify on that. Like him, we 
fully  believe  that  direct  and  meaningful  negotiations 
are the main avenue towards a comprehensive, fair and 
lasting  solution  that  fulfils  the  aspirations  of  Israelis 
and  Palestinians,  including  an  end  to  the  occupation 
and conf lict and a just and agreed solution to the plight 
of Palestinian refugees. The problem is that all of that 
remains  at  the  level  of  sentiment  and  rhetoric  as  long 
as the Government of Israel proceeds with policies that 
can only maintain the status quo.
We agree with the Secretary-General that, in view 
of the dramatic developments in the region, progress on 
the  Israeli-Palestinian  track  is  of  tremendous  urgency 
and that we are increasingly moving away from a two-
State solution into a one-State reality. Such a prospect 
is very grim, and we must all come together and make 
certain  that  we  return  to  the  path  that  leads  to  the 
negotiating  table,  beginning  with  efforts  to  rebuild 
mutual confidence. To that end, we once again call on 
Israel  to  cease  all  settlement  activity  in  the  occupied 
West  Bank,  including  East  Jerusalem,  and  to  avoid 
contravening  its  obligations  under  the  road  map  to 
12 
12-62371
A/67/PV.47
freeze  all  settlement  construction,  including  natural 
growth, and to dismantle all the outposts. We reiterate 
that those policies simply compound the challenges and 
amount to deliberate hurdles on the road.
Finally, Indonesia wishes to state that, while it will 
continue to support a two-State solution, such a solution 
can  succeed  only  if  it  is  comprehensive  and  includes 
both  the  Israeli-Syrian  and  Israeli-Lebanese  tracks. 
Towards  that  end,  Indonesia  again  calls  on  Israel  to 
withdraw completely from the occupied Lebanese land, 
as well as from the occupied Syrian Golan, and comply 
fully with Security Council resolutions 242 (1967) and 
338 (1973).
On  the  current  situation  in  Syria,  my  delegation 
wishes to thank Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi, the Joint Special 
Representative  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  League 
of  Arab  States,  for  his  briefing  to  the  Assembly  this 
morning. We continue to witness, in Syria, worsening 
violence  and  an  unfolding  humanitarian  catastrophe 
on  the  ground,  with  the  international  community  in 
paralysis as to how to respond. In the view of Indonesia, 
that  represents  a  challenge  to  us  to  commence,  as  a 
matter of urgency, earnest work aimed at ensuring the 
end of the violence and to address the dire humanitarian 
needs of the people. We must also, without delay, start 
a  political  process  aimed  at  finding  solutions  that  are 
in  accordance  with  the  wishes  and  aspirations  of  the 
Syrian people.
Mr. Khan (Pakistan): I thank the President of the 
General  Assembly  for  convening  this  meeting  on  the 
situation in the Middle East. We align ourselves with the 
statement delivered by the Permanent Representative of 
Iran on behalf of the Non-Aligned Movement. 
In adopting resolution 67/19 yesterday, the Assembly 
took a historic decision by admitting Palestine into its 
family  as  a  non-member  observer  State.  The  decision 
coincided with the International Day of Solidarity with 
the Palestinian People. 
We  congratulate  President  Mahmoud  Abbas  and 
the  people  of  Palestine  on  that  historic  verdict  by  the 
Assembly. The decision is a step in the right direction. 
It  is  a  step  towards  acceptance  of  the  realities  on  the 
ground, and it should be a step towards recognition of 
Palestine as a full Member in the United Nations. 
Pakistan  was  one  of  the  sponsors  of  resolution 
67/19.  The  Assembly’s  decision  came  after  a  bloody 
week  of  killings  in  Palestine  and  a  very  welcome 
aircraft, 
artillery 
ceasefire.  We  condemn  the  killings.  Sophisticated 
weapons  —  warships, 
and 
missiles  —  were  used  against  the  people  of  Gaza. 
The  military  campaign  left  over  160  dead  and  more 
than  1,200  injured  in  Gaza.  It  has  left  behind  a  trail 
of  destruction  that  has  worsened  the  humanitarian 
situation.  However,  that  recurring  phenomenon  must 
end.  We  urge  the  international  community  to  take 
immediate  and  effective  steps  to  ensure  that  violence 
does not erupt again. 
But today, let us not talk only about violence, death 
and  destruction.  Let  us  talk  about  peace,  security  and 
stability  in  the  region.  Let  us  talk  about  resumption 
of  the  peace  process  and  full  engagement  between 
Palestine and Israel. 
Some  countries  were  disappointed  by  the  General 
Assembly’s  decision  last  evening.  They  thought  that 
it  was  a  unilateral  action.  The  fact  is  that  the  people 
of  Palestine  have  waited  for  far  too  long  to  exercise 
their right to self-determination and for recognition of 
their  legitimate  statehood.  It  is  our  earnest  hope  and 
appeal  that  following  yesterday’s  decision  there  will 
be  no  reprisals  or  retaliation  against  Palestine.  The 
people of Palestine need compassion and solidarity, not 
estrangement  and  punishment.  We  hope  that  instead 
of  punitive  measures,  the  emphasis  will  now  shift  to 
resuming  dialogue  on  implementing  the  agreed  two-
State solution. 
Serious  doubts  have  recently  been  expressed 
about the viability of the two-State solution, and there 
has  been  talk  of  a  one-State  solution.  As  noted  by  the 
Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights 
of  the  Palestinian  People,  the  status  quo  would  delay 
the  two-State  solution  and  might  usher  in  a  one-State 
reality with unpredictable consequences, and, may I say, 
disastrous consequences. Similar concern is expressed 
in  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General  (A/67/364).  As 
the  window  of  opportunity  for  a  two-State  solution 
continues  to  narrow,  it  is  urgent  to  reactivate  the 
Middle  East  peace  process,  based  on  internationally 
agreed  terms  of  reference,  including  Security  Council 
resolutions, the Arab Peace Initiative, the Quartet road 
map and the Madrid principles. 
For  a  serious  quest  for  peace  and  a  two-State 
solution,  the  construction  of  illegal  settlements  must 
cease.  The  Secretary-General  has  noted  that  43  per 
cent  of  the  West  Bank  has  been  allocated  to  local 
and  regional  settlement  councils,  with  the  result  that 
12-62371
13
A/67/PV.47
those  areas  are  off-limits  to  Palestinians,  leaving  the 
Palestinian territory divided into enclaves with little or 
no territorial contiguity. Israel must heed the Secretary-
General’s  call  to  freeze  all  settlement  activity,  in  line 
with the Quartet road map. 
The  blockade  of  Gaza  is  a  violation  of  Security 
Council  resolution  1860  (2009).  We  call  for  an  end  to 
the policy of collective punishment being meted out to 
1.5 million Palestinians. 
The immobility of the Quartet leaves the people of 
Palestine with little hope. The winds of change blowing 
through the wider Middle East region demand fair and 
just  dispensation  for  the  Palestinians  in  terms  of  their 
destiny. 
Pakistan believes that comprehensive peace in the 
Middle  East  will  remain  elusive  without  the  creation 
of  an  independent,  viable  and  contiguous  State  of 
Palestine, based on pre-1967 borders and with Al-Quds 
Al-Sharif  as  its  capital.  Resolution  of  the  Arab-Israeli 
conf lict, including through Israeli withdrawal from the 
Lebanese  territories  and  the  Syrian  Golan,  is  the  only 
guarantee of sustainable peace in the region. 
The dark night of suffering of the people of Palestine 
must  end  now.  A  Palestinian  State  living  side  by  side 
in  peace  and  security  with  its  neighbours  is  the  only 
guarantee  of  security  and  stability  in  the  region.  The 
international community must rise to deliver justice. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
draft  resolutions,  one  by  one,  members  are  reminded 
that they will have an opportunity to explain their vote 
on all four before and after action is taken on all of the 
draft resolutions.
I give the f loor to Israel on a point of order.
Mr. Magid (Israel): I call for a recorded vote on all 
of the draft resolutions.
The Acting President: The Assembly will now take 
a  decision  on  draft  resolutions  A/67/L.17,  A/67/L.18, 
A/67/L.19 and A/67/L.20. 
We turn first to draft resolution A/67/L.17, entitled 
“Committee  on  the  Exercise  of  the  Inalienable  Rights 
of the Palestinian People”. 
I  give  the  f loor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
to 
announce that since the submission of draft resolution 
A/67/L.17,  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in 
the  document,  the  following  countries  have  become 
sponsors:  Afghanistan,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Brunei 
Darussalam and Viet Nam.
like 
The Acting President: The Assembly will now take 
a  decision  on  draft  resolution  A/67/L.17.  A  recorded 
vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken. 
speaker in the debate under this item. 
In favour:
I would like to inform members that action on draft 
resolutions A/67/L.23 and A/67/L.24 will be taken after 
we  take  action  on  draft  resolutions  A/67/L.17,  L.18, 
L.19 and L.20, under agenda item 37.
The  General  Assembly  has  thus  concluded  this 
stage of its consideration of agenda item 36.
Agenda item 37 (continued)
Question of Palestine 
Draft resolutions (A/67/L.17, A/67/L.18, 
A/67/L.19 and A/67/L.20)
The  Acting  President:  The  General  Assembly 
will  resume  its  consideration  of  agenda  item  37, 
entitled  “Question  of  Palestine”,  to  take  action  on 
draft  resolutions  A/67/L.17,  A/67/L.18,  A/67/L.19  and 
A/67/L.20.  Before  the  Assembly  takes  action  on  the 
Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Angola,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Azerbaijan, 
Bahamas,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Barbados, 
Belize,  Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational 
State  of),  Botswana,  Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam, 
Burkina  Faso,  Burundi,  Cambodia,  Cape  Verde, 
Chile,  China,  Comoros,  Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Côte 
d’Ivoire,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican 
Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  Eritrea,  Ethiopia, 
Fiji,  Gambia,  Grenada,  Guinea,  Guyana,  Haiti, 
Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic  Republic 
of),  Iraq,  Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya, 
Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Libya,  Malaysia, 
Maldives,  Mali,  Malta,  Mauritania,  Mauritius, 
Mexico,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Namibia,  Nepal, 
Nicaragua,  Nigeria,  Oman,  Pakistan,  Paraguay, 
Philippines, Qatar, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and 
14 
12-62371
the Grenadines, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Singapore, 
Solomon  Islands,  Somalia,  South  Africa,  Sri 
Lanka,  Sudan,  Suriname,  Syrian  Arab  Republic, 
Tajikistan,  Thailand,  Togo,  Trinidad  and  Tobago, 
Tunisia,  Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu,  Uganda, 
United Arab Emirates, United Republic of Tanzania, 
Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian 
Republic of), Viet Nam, Yemen, Zimbabwe
Against:
Australia,  Canada, 
Islands, 
Micronesia  (Federated  States  of),  Palau,  United 
States of America
Israel,  Marshall 
Abstaining:
Albania,  Andorra,  Austria,  Belgium,  Bosnia  and 
Herzegovina,  Bulgaria,  Cameroon,  Colombia, 
Croatia,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark,  El  Salvador, 
Estonia,  Finland,  France,  Georgia,  Germany, 
Greece,  Guatemala,  Honduras,  Hungary,  Ireland, 
Italy, 
Japan,  Latvia,  Liberia,  Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Monaco,  Montenegro, 
Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, Panama, Papua 
New  Guinea,  Peru,  Poland,  Portugal,  Republic  of 
Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  Russian 
Federation,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Serbia,  Slovakia, 
Slovenia,  Spain,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  the  former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tonga, Ukraine, 
United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern 
Ireland, Vanuatu
Draft  resolution  A/67/L.17  was  adopted  by  106 
votes to 7, with 56 abstentions (resolution 67/20).
The  Acting  President:  We  turn  next  to  draft 
resolution A/67/L.18, entitled “Division for Palestinian 
Rights of the Secretariat”. 
I  give  the  f loor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution  and 
in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in  document 
A/67/L.18,  the  following  countries  have  also  become 
sponsors  of  draft  resolution  A/67/L.18:  Afghanistan, 
Bahrain, Bangladesh, the Plurinational State of Bolivia 
and Brunei Darussalam.
The Acting President: The Assembly will now take 
a  decision  on  draft  resolution  A/67/L.18.  A  recorded 
vote has been requested.
A/67/PV.47
A recorded vote was taken. 
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Angola,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  Argentina,  Azerbaijan,  Bahamas, 
Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belize,  Benin, 
Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of), Botswana, 
Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Burkina  Faso, 
Cambodia,  Cape  Verde,  Chile,  China,  Comoros, 
Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire,  Cuba,  Cyprus, 
Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  Djibouti, 
Dominica,  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt, 
Eritrea,  Ethiopia,  Gambia,  Grenada,  Guinea, 
Guyana,  Haiti,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic 
Republic  of),  Iraq,  Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan, 
Kenya,  Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s 
Democratic  Republic,  Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Libya, 
Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Malta,  Mauritania, 
Mauritius,  Mexico,  Morocco,  Mozambique, 
Namibia, Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, 
Pakistan, Paraguay, Philippines, Qatar, Saint Lucia, 
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  Saudi  Arabia, 
Senegal,  Singapore,  Solomon  Islands,  Somalia, 
South Africa, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, Syrian 
Arab Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, Trinidad and 
Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu, 
Uganda,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Republic 
of  Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam,  Yemen, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Australia,  Canada, 
Islands, 
Micronesia  (Federated  States  of),  Palau,  United 
States of America
Israel,  Marshall 
Abstaining:
Albania,  Andorra,  Armenia,  Austria,  Belgium, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Bulgaria,  Burundi, 
Cameroon,  Colombia,  Croatia,  Czech  Republic, 
Denmark,  El  Salvador,  Estonia,  Fiji,  Finland, 
France,  Georgia,  Germany,  Greece,  Guatemala, 
Honduras,  Hungary, 
Italy, 
Japan,  Latvia,  Liberia,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Monaco,  Montenegro,  Netherlands, 
New  Zealand,  Norway,  Panama,  Papua  New 
Guinea,  Peru,  Poland,  Portugal,  Republic  of 
Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  Russian 
Federation,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Serbia,  Slovakia, 
Slovenia,  Spain,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  the  former 
Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Togo,  Tonga, 
Iceland, 
Ireland, 
12-62371
15
A/67/PV.47
Ukraine,  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and 
Northern Ireland, Vanuatu
Draft  resolution  A/67/L.18  was  adopted  by  103 
votes to 7, with 61 abstentions (resolution 67/21).
The  Acting  President:  We  turn  next  to  draft 
resolution  A/67/L.19,  entitled  “Special  information 
programme  on 
the 
Department of Public Information of the Secretariat”. 
the  question  of  Palestine  of 
I  give  the  f loor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution  and 
in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed  in  document 
A/67/L.19, 
the  following  countries  have  become 
sponsors  of  draft  resolution  A/67/L.19:  Afghanistan, 
Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Belarus,  the  Plurinational  State 
of Bolivia and Brunei Darussalam. 
The Acting President: The Assembly will now take 
a  decision  on  draft  resolution  A/67/L.19.  A  recorded 
vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Bahamas, 
Azerbaijan, 
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Austria, 
Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso,  Burundi, 
Cambodia,  Cape  Verde,  Chile,  China,  Colombia, 
Comoros,  Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Côte  d’Ivoire, 
Croatia, Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea,  Denmark,  Djibouti, 
Dominica,  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt, 
Eritrea,  Estonia,  Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France, 
Gambia,  Georgia,  Germany,  Greece,  Grenada, 
Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guyana,  Haiti,  Hungary, 
Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic  Republic 
of),  Iraq,  Ireland,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Jordan, 
Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Latvia,  Lebanon, 
Lesotho,  Liberia,  Libya,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Malta, 
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, 
Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Namibia, 
Nepal,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Nicaragua, 
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, 
Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal, 
Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova, 
Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Saint  Lucia, 
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  San 
Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Singapore, 
Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon  Islands,  Somalia, 
South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, 
Sweden,  Switzerland,  Syrian  Arab  Republic, 
Tajikistan, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic 
of  Macedonia,  Timor-Leste,  Trinidad  and  Tobago, 
Tunisia,  Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu,  Uganda, 
Ukraine,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Kingdom 
of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland,  United 
Republic  of  Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Australia,  Canada, 
Islands, 
Micronesia  (Federated  States  of),  Palau,  United 
States of America
Israel,  Marshall 
Abstaining:
Cameroon,  El  Salvador,  Honduras,  Papua  New 
Guinea, Togo, Tonga, Vanuatu
Draft  resolution  A/67/L.19  was  adopted  by  160 
votes to 7, with 7 abstentions (resolution 67/22).
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take  a  decision  on  draft  resolution  A/67/L.20,  entitled 
“Peaceful settlement of the question of Palestine”. 
I  give  the  f loor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  I  should  like  to  inform 
the  Assembly  that,  since  the  introduction  of  draft 
resolution  and  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed 
in  document  A/67/L.20,  the  following  countries  have 
also  become  sponsors  of  draft  resolution  A/67/L.20: 
Afghanistan,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Belarus, 
the 
Plurinational State of Bolivia, Brunei Darussalam and 
Burkina Faso.
The Acting President: The Assembly will now take 
a  decision  on  draft  resolution  A/67/L.20.  A  recorded 
vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
16 
12-62371
In favour:
Bahamas, 
Azerbaijan, 
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Austria, 
Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso,  Burundi, 
Cambodia,  Cape  Verde,  Chile,  China,  Colombia, 
Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, 
Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, 
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, 
Eritrea,  Estonia,  Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France, 
Gambia,  Georgia,  Germany,  Greece,  Grenada, 
Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guyana,  Haiti,  Hungary, 
Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic  Republic 
of),  Iraq,  Ireland,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan,  Jordan, 
Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao 
People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Latvia,  Lebanon, 
Lesotho,  Liberia,  Libya,  Liechtenstein,  Lithuania, 
Luxembourg,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Malta, 
Mauritania, Mauritius, Mexico, Monaco, Mongolia, 
Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Namibia, 
Nepal,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand,  Nicaragua, 
Niger, Nigeria, Norway, Oman, Pakistan, Panama, 
Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Poland,  Portugal, 
Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of  Moldova, 
Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Saint  Lucia, 
Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa,  San 
Marino, Saudi Arabia, Senegal, Serbia, Singapore, 
Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon  Islands,  Somalia, 
South Africa, Spain, Sri Lanka, Sudan, Suriname, 
Sweden,  Switzerland,  Syrian  Arab  Republic, 
Tajikistan, Thailand, the former Yugoslav Republic 
of  Macedonia,  Timor-Leste,  Togo,  Trinidad  and 
Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu, 
Uganda,  Ukraine,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, 
Vanuatu, Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of), Viet 
Nam, Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Canada,  Israel,  Marshall  Islands,  Micronesia 
(Federated  States  of),  Palau,  United  States  of 
America
Abstaining:
Australia,  Cameroon,  Honduras,  Papua  New 
Guinea, Tonga
A/67/PV.47
Draft  resolution  A/67/L.20  was  adopted  by  163 
votes to 6, with 5 abstentions (resolution 67/23).
The  Acting  President:  Before  giving  the  f loor  to 
speakers  in  explanation  of  vote  on  the  resolutions just 
adopted, may I remind delegations that explanations of 
vote are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by 
delegations from their seats.
Mr. Lee (Singapore): Singapore voted in favour of 
resolution 67/20 on the understanding that the reference 
in  paragraph  2  to  “the  achievement  of  the  two-State 
solution on the basis of the pre-1967 borders” should be 
interpreted in the same manner as set out in paragraph 
1 of resolution 67/23, which is “the two-State solution 
of Israel and Palestine, living side by side in peace and 
security  within  recognized  borders,  based  on  the  pre-
1967 borders”.
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 37.
Agenda item 36 (continued)
The situation in the Middle East
Reports of the Secretary-General (A/67/342 
and A/67/364)
Draft resolutions (A/67/L.23 and A/67/L.24)
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take  a  decision  on  draft  resolutions  A/67/L.23  and 
A/67/L.24. We turn first to draft resolution A/67/L.23, 
entitled “Jerusalem”. 
I  give  the  f loor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I would like to announce 
that,  since  the  submission  of  the  draft  resolution  and 
in  addition  to  the  delegations  listed  in  document 
A/67/L.23,  the  following  countries  have  also  become 
sponsors  of  draft  resolution  A/67/L.23:  Afghanistan, 
Bahrain, Bangladesh, the Plurinational State of Bolivia, 
Brunei Darussalam and Viet Nam. 
The Acting President: The Assembly will now take 
a  decision  on  draft  resolution  A/67/L.23.  A  recorded 
vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
12-62371
17
A/67/PV.47
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Andorra,  Angola, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia, 
Australia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahamas, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Barbados,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize, 
Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational  State  of), 
Bosnia and Herzegovina, Botswana, Brazil, Brunei 
Darussalam,  Bulgaria,  Burkina  Faso,  Burundi, 
Cambodia,  Cape  Verde,  Chile,  China,  Colombia, 
Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, Côte d’Ivoire, Croatia, 
Cuba, Cyprus, Czech Republic, Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, 
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, 
Eritrea,  Estonia,  Ethiopia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France, 
Gambia,  Georgia,  Germany,  Greece,  Grenada, 
Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guyana,  Haiti,  Honduras, 
Hungary,  Iceland,  India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic 
Republic  of),  Iraq,  Ireland,  Italy,  Jamaica,  Japan, 
Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan, 
Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Latvia, 
Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Liberia,  Libya,  Liechtenstein, 
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Malaysia, Maldives, Mali, 
Malta,  Mauritania,  Mauritius,  Mexico,  Monaco, 
Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Morocco,  Mozambique, 
Namibia,  Nepal,  Netherlands,  New  Zealand, 
Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Norway,  Oman, 
Pakistan,  Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Poland, 
Portugal,  Qatar,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of 
Moldova,  Romania,  Russian  Federation,  Saint 
Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines,  Samoa, 
San  Marino,  Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Serbia, 
Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Solomon  Islands, 
Somalia,  South  Africa,  Spain,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan, 
Suriname,  Sweden,  Switzerland,  Syrian  Arab 
Republic, Tajikistan, Thailand, the former Yugoslav 
Republic of Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Trinidad and 
Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu, 
Uganda,  Ukraine,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United 
Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and  Northern  Ireland, 
United Republic of Tanzania, Uruguay, Uzbekistan, 
Venezuela  (Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam, 
Yemen, Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Canada,  Israel,  Marshall  Islands,  Micronesia 
(Federated States of), Nauru, Palau, United States 
of America
Abstaining:
Cameroon,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea,  Togo, 
Tonga, Vanuatu
Draft  resolution  A/67/L.23  was  adopted  by  162 
votes to 7, with 6 abstentions (resolution 67/24).
The Acting President: Draft resolution A/67/L.24 
is entitled “The Syrian Golan”. 
I  give  the  f loor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I would like to announce 
that,  in  addition  to  the  delegations  listed  in  document 
A/67/L.24, 
the  following  countries  have  become 
sponsors of the draft resolution: Afghanistan, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh, the Plurinational State of Bolivia, Brunei 
Darussalam  and  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea.
The Acting President: The Assembly will now take 
a  decision  on  draft  resolution  A/67/L.24.  A  recorded 
vote has been requested.
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Angola,  Antigua  and 
Barbuda,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Azerbaijan, 
Bahamas, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Barbados, Belarus, 
Belize,  Benin,  Bhutan,  Bolivia  (Plurinational 
State  of),  Botswana,  Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam, 
Burkina  Faso,  Cambodia,  Cape  Verde,  Chile, 
China,  Colombia,  Comoros,  Congo,  Costa  Rica, 
Côte d’Ivoire, Cuba, Cyprus, Democratic People’s 
Republic of Korea, Djibouti, Dominica, Dominican 
Republic,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  Eritrea,  Ethiopia, 
Grenada,  Guatemala,  Guinea,  Guyana,  Haiti, 
India,  Indonesia,  Iran  (Islamic  Republic  of),  Iraq, 
Jamaica,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan,  Kenya,  Kuwait, 
Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic, 
Lebanon,  Lesotho,  Liberia,  Libya,  Malaysia, 
Maldives,  Mali,  Mauritania,  Mauritius,  Mexico, 
Mongolia,  Morocco,  Mozambique,  Namibia, 
Nepal, Nicaragua, Niger, Nigeria, Oman, Pakistan, 
Paraguay,  Peru,  Philippines,  Qatar,  Russian 
Federation,  Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines,  Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Singapore, 
Solomon  Islands,  Somalia,  South  Africa,  Sri 
Lanka,  Sudan,  Suriname,  Syrian  Arab  Republic, 
Tajikistan,  Thailand,  Timor-Leste,  Trinidad  and 
Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu, 
Uganda,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Republic 
of  Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Venezuela 
18 
12-62371
A/67/PV.47
(Bolivarian  Republic  of),  Viet  Nam,  Yemen, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe
so  as  to  put  an  end  to  the  occupation  of  the  Golan 
Heights.
Against:
Canada,  Israel,  Marshall  Islands,  Micronesia 
(Federated  States  of),  Palau,  United  States  of 
America
Abstaining:
Albania,  Andorra,  Australia,  Austria,  Belgium, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Bulgaria,  Burundi, 
Cameroon,  Croatia,  Czech  Republic,  Denmark, 
El  Salvador,  Estonia,  Fiji,  Finland,  France, 
Gambia,  Georgia,  Germany,  Greece,  Honduras, 
Hungary,  Iceland,  Ireland,  Italy,  Japan,  Latvia, 
Liechtenstein,  Lithuania,  Luxembourg,  Malta, 
Monaco,  Montenegro,  Nauru,  Netherlands,  New 
Zealand,  Norway,  Panama,  Papua  New  Guinea, 
Poland,  Portugal,  Republic  of  Korea,  Republic  of 
Moldova,  Romania,  Samoa,  San  Marino,  Serbia, 
Slovakia,  Slovenia,  Spain,  Sweden,  Switzerland, 
the former Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Togo, 
Tonga, Ukraine, United Kingdom of Great Britain 
and Northern Ireland, Vanuatu
Draft  resolution  A/67/L.24  was  adopted  by  110 
votes to 6, with 59 abstentions (resolution 67/25).
The  Acting  President:  Before  giving  the  f loor  to 
speakers  in  explanation  of  vote  on  the  resolutions just 
adopted, may I remind delegations that explanations of 
vote are limited to 10 minutes and should be made by 
delegations from their seats.
Mr. Fernandes (Brazil) (spoke in Spanish): I have 
the  honour  to  speak  on  behalf  of  the  delegations  of 
Argentina and Brazil to explain our votes, as we have 
in  previous  years,  on  resolution  67/25,  on  the  Syrian 
Golan, just now adopted by the General Assembly.
Brazil  and  Argentina  voted  in  favour  of  the 
resolution  because  they  believe  that  its  essential 
character is linked to the illegitimacy of the acquisition 
of  territory  by  force.  Article  2,  paragraph  4,  of  the 
Charter of the United Nations prohibits the use or threat 
of use of force against the territorial integrity of a State.
At  the  same  time,  I  want  to  clarify  the  position 
of  our  delegations  with  respect  to  paragraph  6  of  the 
resolution.  Our  vote  does  not  prejudge  the  content  of 
that  paragraph,  particularly  the  reference  to  “the  line 
of 4 June 1967”. Brazil and Argentina believe that it is 
important to make progress in the search for a solution 
to the Syrian-Israeli track of the Middle East conf lict, 
Therefore, on behalf of the Governments of Brazil 
and  Argentina,  I  once  again  stress  the  importance  of 
resuming  negotiations  in  order  to  find  a  definitive 
solution  to  the  situation  in  the  Syrian  Golan,  in 
accordance  with  Security  Council  resolutions  242 
(1967)  and  338  (1973)  and  the  principle  of  land  for 
peace. 
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  only 
speaker in explanation of vote.
I now give the f loor to the observer of the observer 
State of Palestine.
Mr.  Mansour  (Palestine):  I  want  to  thank  all  of 
my  colleagues  who  gave  the  State  of  Palestine  this 
wonderful  reception.  I  am  delighted  to  hear  you,  Sir, 
introducing our participation as the State of Palestine.
Yesterday  was  a  historic  day  for  the  Palestinian 
people, for the State of Palestine and for all those who 
support peace and justice in the Middle East. It was a 
historic day for the United Nations; it was a historic day 
for all of us in the Assembly Hall. There is no way for me 
to  describe  the  enthusiasm  that  the  General  Assembly 
demonstrated  yesterday  in  receiving  our  President, 
listening to him, legislating in this Hall the recognition 
of  the  State  of  Palestine  and  changing  our  status  to 
that of a non-member observer State. Indeed that was a 
historic day and an historic action, which was received 
by our people in the streets of the occupied Palestinian 
territory, where hundreds of thousands of Palestinians 
joyfully celebrated the historic development.
In  the  name  of  the  Palestinian  people  and  in  the 
name  of  the  State  of  Palestine,  I  want  to  thank  all 
those  who  sponsored  resolution  67/19  and  the  other 
resolutions adopted today under the item “Question of 
Palestine” and on Jerusalem. We are also very grateful 
to  all  those  who  voted  in  favour.  They  made  history 
yesterday and reiterated the principled positions in the 
resolutions adopted today. 
There  are  many  people  we  can  thank,  including 
those  who  were  very  instrumental  in  the  collection 
of  sponsors.  Among  them  is  a  person  special  to  us, 
Mr.  Morsi  from  the  Arab  League,  who  has  been  here 
for  many  years  and  has  been  an  outstanding  friend  of 
the State of Palestine. We want to thank him from the 
seat  of  the  non-member  observer  State  of  Palestine  in 
the United Nations.
12-62371
19
A/67/PV.47
Today  is  the  day  after.  Yesterday,  when  we 
promoted  our  draft  resolution  in  connection  with  our 
status  at  the  United  Nations,  we  were  contributing 
to  saving  the  two-State  solution,  contributing  to 
saving peace and contributing to opening doors to the 
possibility of creating an atmosphere that is conducive 
to  negotiations  with  Israel  to  end  the  occupation  that 
started  in  1967  and  to  allow  for  the  independence  of 
our State. On the day after, we very sincerely hope that 
we can give this option of peace a chance. We hope not 
to continue with the option of denying the rights of the 
Palestinian people in order to continue to occupy them 
and impose wars on them, such as we saw ten days ago 
during the war against our people in the Gaza Strip.
The  reaction  of  the  Israeli  Government  was  an 
immediate  declaration 
immediate  provocation,  an 
regarding  building  3,000  illegal  housing  units  and 
expanding  their  illegal  settlements.  They  are  trying 
to  provoke  us  to  react  in  some  way.  I  do  not  know 
how  they  expect  us  to  react,  but  the  international 
community  reiterated  its  position  that  settlements  are 
an  illegal  obstacle  to  peace  and  need  to  be  stopped 
immediately.  We 
international 
community — not only the General Assembly, but also 
the  Security  Council  —  to  uphold  international  law 
and bring Israel into compliance. They are unilaterally 
creating  illegal  facts  on  the  ground,  and  they  are 
unilaterally  taking  measures  that  are  in  contravention 
of  the  provisions  of  international  law,  especially  the 
Fourth Geneva Convention. 
thus  expect 
the 
For  our  part,  having  submitted  that  proposal  with 
a view to opening doors to peace, we will continue to 
extend our hand in peace, but the continued provocation, 
testing  our  resolve  and  our  determination,  must  have 
limits.  We  are  ready  and  willing,  if  the  other  side  is 
ready, to negotiate in good faith on the basis of the well-
known terms of reference of the peace process. If they 
respect  and  uphold  international  law,  then  perhaps  we 
can open doors for peace to move forward. 
The insistence on the option of war and destruction, 
violating the law, building illegal settlements, stealing 
our land, destroying our homes, displacing our people 
and building walls — these things need to be stopped, 
and  stopped  immediately,  because  they  are  not  things 
that  will  create  an  atmosphere  that  will  allow  us  to 
negotiate  to  end  the  occupation  and  to  achieve  the 
independence of our State. 
The  choice  is  theirs.  If  they  want  to  move  in  the 
direction  of  peace,  our  message  and  the  message  of 
our President were crystal-clear yesterday. We will be 
working together, with the international community, to 
collectively bring those who are violating international 
law,  the  provisions  of  the  Fourth  Geneva  Convention, 
human rights law and humanitarian law into compliance. 
We should do so if we want to open the path of peace, put 
an end to the agony and tragedy of our people, liberate 
them  from  the  shackles  of  occupation  and  allow  us  to 
acquire  our  independence.  More  provocations  would 
be  testing  our  resolve.  The  message  that  we  pushed 
yesterday should be the message that they should listen 
to and take seriously into consideration if they want to 
move in the direction of peace with us.
I again want to thank all those who have supported 
our resolutions and who made history with us yesterday 
in making the reality of the two States legally, politically 
and diplomatically accepted by the General Assembly. 
One  State  came  into  being  in  1948.  The  Assembly 
legislated  its  recognition  of  the  other  State  through 
yesterday’s  well-known  resolution  67/19  and  gave  it  a 
non-member  observer  seat  in  the  General  Assembly 
with a view to, one day soon, it becoming a full Member 
of the United Nations. 
A majority of more than two thirds of the members 
of  the  Assembly  voted  in  favour  of  that  resolution 
yesterday. In fact, 71.5 per cent of the total membership 
of the United Nations voted in favour of our resolution. 
If  we  do  not  count  those  that  abstained,  we  received 
the votes of 93 per cent of those that were present and 
voting in the Assembly. 
We  believe  that  this  is  a  massive  message  to  the 
Security Council, calling on it to favourably recommend 
to the General Assembly the acceptance of the State of 
Palestine for full membership in the United Nations. We 
hope that the Security Council will rise to the occasion 
and listen to this massive message from the Assembly, 
which  is  awaiting  the  recommendation  to  allow  the 
State  of  Palestine  to  become  a  full  Member  and  for 
our  State’s  f lag  to  be  put  in  its  alphabetical  place  in 
front of this building so that we can open a new chapter 
of  the  relationship  between  us  and  our  neighbour,  the 
State of Israel, and move in the direction of peace and 
development. Again, our hand is extended in peace, but 
we need the other side to reciprocate in the same spirit.
With  that  message,  and  on  the  eve  of  the  holiday 
season,  we  want  to  thank  the  Assembly  again  very 
much for its support, and we hope that very soon, if we 
come back to the General Assembly, it will be in order 
to vote to grant the State of Palestine full membership.
20 
12-62371
A/67/PV.47
The Acting President: I call on the representative 
of the Syrian Arab Republic.
all  means  of  international  law,  in  whose  headquarters 
we meet today.
Mr.  Ja’afari  (Syrian  Arab  Republic)  (spoke  in 
Arabic):  My  delegation  would  like  to  express  its 
sincere  and  deep  appreciation  and  gratitude  to  the 
General  Assembly  for  its  adoption  —  every  year 
without  exception  since  1981,  and  by  a  majority  of 
the  voices  promoting  right,  justice  and  law  —  of  the 
resolutions  entitled  “The  Syrian  Golan”,  this  year 
resolution  67/25,  as  well  as  other  draft  resolutions 
under the items concerning the situation in the Middle 
East  and  the  question  of  Palestine.  The  international 
community’s continued support for such resolutions is 
a  clear  expression  of  Member  States’  commitment  to 
the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United 
Nations, their rejection of foreign occupation and their 
support  for  our  right  to  recover  the  Syrian  territories 
that have been occupied by Israel since 5 June 1967. 
The  overwhelming  majority  of  the  vote  in  favour 
of  these  resolutions  sends  a  clear  message  from  the 
international community to Israel and its politicians to 
the effect that occupation, murder, policies of expansion 
and aggression, racial discrimination, the establishment 
of  settlements,  the  imposition  of  a  fait  accompli  and 
the  forcible  annexation  of  other  people’s  lands  are  all 
repugnant  practices  that  violate  every  international 
instrument and norm, foremost among them clearly the 
Charter  of  the  United  Nations  and  the  Fourth  Geneva 
Convention of 1949. Thus, the fate of all such practices 
is denunciation and condemnation by the international 
community in the General Assembly.
I  would  like  once  again  to  express  my  country’s 
thanks  to  all  the  sponsors  of  resolution  67/25,  entitled 
“The Syrian Golan”, and to those who voted in favour 
of it, and to reiterate our call for the establishment of a 
just  and  comprehensive  peace,  based  on  international 
legal 
resolutions,  particularly  Security  Council 
resolutions  242  (1967),  338  (1973)  and  497  (1981),  as 
well  as  the  principle  of  land  for  peace  and  the  Arab 
Peace  Initiative.  I  would  also  like  to  stress  Syria’s 
unshakeable determination to liberate the entire Golan 
to  the  pre-occupation  borders  of  4  June  1967  and  to 
remove all illegal settlements there, in accordance with 
It  is  regrettable  that  certain  countries  that  have 
been  frequent  advocates  for  human  rights  and  the 
protection  of  civilians  and  international  law  have 
imposed sanctions on my country and have besieged it 
on that pretext, while failing to vote on resolutions that 
would end the Israeli occupation of part of our national 
homeland  in  the  Golan,  resolutions  concerning  Syrian 
citizens who have long suffered under occupation.
Some  countries  voted  against  the  resolutions  on 
both  the  Syrian  Golan  and  the  question  of  Palestine, 
which enjoy unprecedented international support. That 
only proves what we have often said, which is that the 
actions of the representatives of those countries do not 
match  their  words  or  ref lect  good  faith.  This  is  mere 
political hypocrisy and a way of dealing with important 
issues — such as the occupied Golan and the question 
of  Palestine  —  that  is  based  on  double  standards, 
an  extreme  bias  in  Israel’s  favour  and  a  logic  of 
aggression  in  international  relations.  Israel  would  not 
have  persisted  with  its  occupation  of  Arab  territories 
if  it  were  not  for  the  direct  support  that  its  policies 
of  occupation  and  aggression  receive  from  those  who 
abstained or voted against the resolution on the occupied 
Golan.  Thus,  those  countries  that  are  not  on  the  side 
of  the  provisions  of  the  Charter  and  international  law 
also  bear  responsibility  for  the  consequences  of  the 
continued Israeli occupation of the Syrian Golan.
The Acting President: The General Assembly has 
thus concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda 
item 36.
Programme of work
The  Acting  President:  Before  concluding,  I 
would  like  to  inform  members  that  consideration  of 
agenda  item  35,  “Zone  of  peace  and  cooperation  of 
the  South  Atlantic”,  originally  scheduled  for  Monday, 
17 December 2012, has been postponed to a later date, 
to be announced.
The meeting rose at 5.20 p.m.
12-62371
21
