United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
44th plenary meeting
Thursday, 29 November 2012, 3 p.m.
New York
A/67/PV.44
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Serbia)
The meeting was called to order at 3.30 p.m.
Agenda item 37
Question of Palestine
Report of the Committee on the Exercise of 
the Inalienable Rights of the Palestinian 
People (A/67/35)
Report of the Secretary-General (A/67/364)
Draft resolutions (A/67/L.17, A/67/L.18, 
A/67/L.19, A/67/L.20 and A/67/L.28)
The President: At the request of the sponsors and in 
view of the presence of the President of the Palestinian 
Authority,  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mahmoud  Abbas,  I 
should  like  to  advise  members  that  the  Assembly 
will  first  take  action  on  draft  resolution  A/67/L.28, 
entitled  “Status  of  Palestine  in  the  United  Nations”.  
The Assembly will then continue to hold its debate on 
agenda item 37 immediately following its consideration 
of the draft resolution. 
In the light of that circumstance, and there being no 
objection, we shall proceed accordingly.
I  now  give  the  f loor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Sudan to introduce draft resolution A/67/L.28.
faith, demonstrating that they are excellent champions 
of the Palestinian cause. I especially welcome President 
Abbas,  Abu  Mazen,  our  brother  the  leader.  I  welcome 
his  delegation  to  this  historic  meeting  on  this  historic 
day.
I also have the honour and the pleasure of introducing 
the draft resolution entitled “Status of Palestine in the 
United Nations”, as contained in document A/67/L.28, 
under agenda item 37, entitled “Question of Palestine”. I 
introduce the draft resolution on behalf of the following 
countries:  Afghanistan,  Algeria,  Angola,  Argentina, 
Azerbaijan,  Bahrain,  Bangladesh,  Belarus,  Belize, 
Bolivia,  Brazil,  Brunei  Darussalam,  Chile,  China, 
Comoros,  Cuba,  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of 
Korea,  Djibouti,  Ecuador,  Egypt,  Grenada,  Guinea, 
Guinea-Bissau,  Guyana,  Iceland,  India,  Indonesia, 
Iraq, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, 
the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic,  Lebanon, 
Libya,  Madagascar,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali, 
Mauritania,  Morocco,  Namibia,  Nicaragua,  Nigeria, 
Oman,  Pakistan,  Peru,  Qatar,  Saint  Vincent  and  the 
Grenadines,  Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal,  Seychelles,  Sierra 
Leone,  Somalia,  South  Africa,  Sri  Lanka,  the  Sudan, 
Suriname, Tajikistan, Tunisia, Turkey, the United Arab 
Emirates,  Uruguay,  Venezuela,  Viet  Nam,  Yemen, 
Zimbabwe and Palestine.
Mr.  Osman  (Sudan)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  At  the 
outset, I have the honour, as Permanent Representative 
of  the  Republic  of  the  Sudan  and  Chairman  of  the 
Group of Arab Ambassadors at the United Nations, to 
welcome the sincere children of Palestine present here, 
who  have  displayed  patience,  steadfastness  and  good 
This  important  draft  resolution  aims  to  take 
a  historic  decision  to  grant  Palestine  the  status  of 
a  non-member  observer  State.  Its  preambular  part 
reaffirms  the  unacceptability  of  the  acquisition  of 
territory  by  force,  as  stipulated  in  the  Charter.  Other 
preambular  paragraphs  reaffirm  the  right  of  the 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-61635 (E)
*1261635*
A/67/PV.44
Palestinian people to self-determination, including the 
right to an independent State of Palestine.
The  preambular  paragraphs  reaffirm  relevant 
Security  Council  and  General  Assembly  resolutions 
concerning  the  peaceful  settlement  of  the  question  of 
Palestine,  mentioning,  among  other  things,  that  Israel 
must  withdraw  from  Palestinian  territory  occupied 
since  1967,  including  East  Jerusalem,  and  that  the 
inalienable  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people,  starting 
with  the  right  to  self-determination  and  the  right  to 
establish an independent State, must be realized, along 
with an equitable settlement for the Palestinian refugees 
in accordance with resolution 194 (III) and a complete 
cessation of Israeli settlement activities in the occupied 
Palestinian territory, including East Jerusalem. 
system to continue to support the Palestinian people in 
the early realization of their right to self-determination, 
independence  and  freedom.  Those  are  all  principles 
that  have  been  enshrined  in  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations. On this historic date, those principles will be 
enshrined.
The  draft  resolution  before  the  Assembly  today, 
which  will  make  this  body’s  views  official,  has  been 
a  long  time  in  coming.    Sixty-five  years  ago  today, 
when  the  United  Nations  decided  to  partition  historic 
Palestine  into  two  States,  one  acquired  independence, 
but  the  other  one  waited  until  this  historic  day.  The 
eyes of all the children of Palestine are looking to this 
moment  and  to  this  Assembly  to  see  their  aspirations 
and hopes fully realized.
The  preambular  part  further  recalls  resolution 
43/177,  in  which  the  Assembly  acknowledged  the 
proclamation of the State of Palestine by the Palestine 
National  Council  on  15  November  1988.  It  also 
reaffirms  the  right  of  all  States  in  the  region  to  live 
in  peace  within  secure  and  internationally  recognized 
borders and the right of both States to live side by side 
in peace and security. 
In  its  operative  paragraphs,  the  draft  resolution 
reaffirms  the  right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  self-
determination  and  independence  in  their  State  of 
Palestine  on  the  Palestinian  territory  occupied  since 
1967. 
We call on the General Assembly to grant Palestine 
the  status  of  a  non-member  observer  State.  I  will 
repeat  that.  We  are  asking  the  General  Assembly  to 
accord  Palestine  non-member  observer  State  status 
in  the  United  Nations,  without  prejudging  the  rights, 
privileges  and  role  accorded  the  Palestine  Liberation 
Organization  as  representative  of 
the  Palestinian 
people. 
The  operative  paragraphs  also  affirm 
the 
determination  of  the  General  Assembly  to  contribute 
to  the  achievement  of  the  inalienable  rights  of  the 
Palestinian  people  and  the  attainment  of  a  peaceful 
settlement  of  the  Middle  East  conf lict  that    ends  the 
Israeli occupation that began in 1967, making possible 
the  realization  of  the  vision  of  two  States.  They 
also  express  the  urgent  need  to  resume  and  expedite 
negotiations in order to achieve a peaceful, just, lasting 
and comprehensive solution.
Paragraph  6  urges  all  States  and  the  specialized 
agencies  and  organizations  of  the  United  Nations 
Since that day 65 years ago, the General Assembly 
has  annually  adopted  many  important  resolutions 
reaffirming  the  rights  of  the  Palestinian  people, 
including the right to self-determination, as well as the 
need to achieve a just and comprehensive solution to the 
question of Palestine under resolutions of international 
legitimacy.  In  that  respect,  the  draft  resolution  is  a 
qualitative  addition  along  the  path  to  achieving  the 
international will to establish a real peace in the Middle 
East based on the two-State solution. That is why I call 
upon  all  States  to  contribute  today  to  making  history 
and to pave the way to the future by voting for the draft 
resolution.
To  conclude,  I  can  only  express,  on  behalf  of  the 
Arab  Group,  our  great  gratitude  and  appreciation  to 
all the States that have sponsored the draft resolution, 
thereby  demonstrating  their  support  for  the  principles 
of the Charter. This is a victory for the values of justice 
and  truth  and  for  the  Palestinian  question  and  the 
Palestinian people, who are watching us today.
The  President:  The  Assembly  will  now  hear  an 
address  by  the  Chairman  of  the  Executive  Committee 
of the Palestine Liberation Organization and President 
of the Palestinian Authority.
Mr. Abbas (Palestine) (spoke in Arabic): Palestine 
comes  today  to  the  General  Assembly  at  a  time  when 
it is still tending to its wounds and burying its beloved 
martyrs — the men, women and children who fell victim 
to the latest Israeli aggression — a time when it is still 
searching for remnants of life amid the ruins of homes 
destroyed  by  Israeli  bombs  on  the  Gaza  Strip,  wiping 
out entire families, their men, women and children, all 
murdered  along  with  their  dreams,  their  hopes,  their 
2 
12-61635
future and their longing to live an ordinary life and to 
live in freedom and peace.
Palestine  comes  today  to  the  General  Assembly 
because  it  believes  in  peace  and  because  its  people, 
as  proven  in  the  course  of  the  past  few  days,  are  in 
desperate need of it.
today 
to 
Palestine  comes 
this  prestigious 
international  forum,  the  representative  and  protector 
of international legitimacy, reaffirming our conviction 
that the international community now stands before the 
last  chance  to  save  the  two-State  solution.  Palestine 
comes  to  the  Assembly  today  at  a  defining  moment 
regionally  and  internationally,  in  order  to  reaffirm 
its  presence  and  to  protect  the  possibilities  and  the 
foundations  of  the  just  peace  that  is  deeply  hoped  for 
in our region.
The  Israeli  aggression  against  our  people  in  the 
Gaza Strip has confirmed once again the extraordinary, 
urgent and pressing need to end the Israeli occupation and 
for our people to gain their freedom and independence. 
That aggression also confirms the Israeli Government’s 
adherence to the policy of occupation, brute force and 
war, which in turn obliges the international community 
to  shoulder  its  responsibilities  towards  the  Palestinian 
people  and  towards  peace.  That  is  why  we  are  here 
today.
I  say  with  great  pain  and  sorrow  that  there  was 
assuredly  no  one  in  the  world  who  asked  dozens  of 
Palestinian  children  to  lose  their  lives  in  order  to 
reaffirm  the  aforementioned  facts.  There  did  not 
have  to  be  thousands  of  deadly  raids  and  tons  of 
explosives for the world to be reminded that there was 
an  occupation  that  needed  to  end  and  that  there  was  a 
people that needed to be freed. Nor was there a need for 
a new, devastating war in order for us to be aware of the 
absence of peace. That is why we are here today.
The  Palestinian  people  miraculously  recovered 
from the ashes of Al-Nakba of 1948, which was intended 
to  extinguish  their  being  and  to  expel  them,  to  uproot 
them and erase their presence, which was rooted in the 
depths of their land and the depths of history. In those 
dark days, hundreds of thousands of Palestinians were 
torn from their homes and displaced within and outside 
their  homeland.  As  part  of  one  of  the  most  dreadful 
campaigns  of  ethnic  cleansing  and  dispossession  in 
modern history, they were thrown from their beautiful, 
embracing, prosperous country into refugee camps. 
A/67/PV.44
In those dark days, our people looked to the United 
Nations as a beacon of hope and appealed for an end to 
the injustice, for justice and peace and for the realization 
of our rights. Our people still believe in those aims and 
continue to wait. That is why we are here today. 
In  the  course  of  our  long  national  struggle,  our 
people  have  always  strived  to  ensure  harmony  and 
consistency among the goals and means of their struggle, 
international law and the spirit of the era, in accordance 
with  the  prevailing  realities  and  changes.  Despite  the 
horrors  that  befell  them,  and  continue  to  befall  them 
today, as a consequence of Al-Nakba and its horrors, our 
people  have  always  strived  not  to  lose  their  humanity, 
their  highest  and  deeply  held  moral  values  and  their 
innovative ability for survival, steadfastness, creativity 
and hope. Despite the enormity and complexity of that 
task,  the  Palestine  Liberation  Organization,  the  sole 
legitimate representative of the Palestinian people and 
the  committed  leader  of  their  revolution  and  struggle, 
has  consistently  strived  to  achieve  that  harmony  and 
consistency.
In  1988,  when  the  Palestine  National  Council 
decided  to  pursue  the  Palestinian  peace  initiative  and 
adopted  the  declaration  of  independence,  on  the  basis 
of  resolution  181  (II)  of  29  November  1947,  under  the 
leadership of the late President Yasser Arafat, it in fact 
took  a  historic,  difficult  and  courageous  decision  that 
defined  the  requirements  for  a  historic  reconciliation 
that  would  turn  the  page  on  war,  aggression  and 
occupation.  That  was  no  easy  matter.  Yet,  we  had 
the  courage  and  sense  of  responsibility  to  take  the 
right  decision  in  order  to  protect  the  higher  national 
interests of our people and to affirm our adherence to 
and  conformity  with  international  legitimacy.  In  that 
same year, that decision was welcomed, supported and 
endorsed by the Assembly that is meeting today.
Over  the  past  months  in  particular,  we  and  the 
members of the General Assembly have heard a constant 
stream  of  Israeli  threats  in  response  to  our  peaceful, 
political  and  diplomatic  effort  for  Palestine  to  acquire 
non-member  observer  status  in  the  United  Nations. 
Members  have  certainly  witnessed  how  some  of  those 
threats were barbarically and horrifically carried out in 
the Gaza Strip only days ago.
We have not heard a word from any Israeli official 
expressing any sincere concern about saving the peace 
process.  On  the  contrary,  our  people  have  witnessed, 
and  continue  to  witness,  an  unprecedented  escalation 
of  military  attacks,  the  blockade,  settlement  activities 
12-61635
3
A/67/PV.44
and  ethnic  cleansing,  particularly  in  occupied  East 
Jerusalem. They have seen mass arrests and attacks by 
settlers, as well as other practices with which the Israeli 
occupation is becoming synonymous. Israel’s apartheid 
system  of  colonial  occupation  institutionalizes  the 
plague of racism and entrenches hatred and incitement.
The  Israeli  Government’s  conviction  that  it  is 
above  international  law  and  that  it  is  immune  from 
accountability  and  responsibility  allows  it  to  blatantly 
continue its aggressive policies and perpetration of war 
crimes.  Unfortunately,  that  belief  is  bolstered  by  the 
failure of some to condemn and to demand the cessation 
of  those  violations  and  crimes  and  by  positions  that 
equate  the  victim  and  the  perpetrator.  The  time  has 
come  for  the  world  to  say  clearly  enough  aggression, 
enough  settlements  and  enough  occupation.  That  is 
why we are here now. 
We  have  not  come  here  seeking  to  delegitimize  a 
State  established  decades  ago,  that  is,  Israel.  Rather, 
we  have  come  to  affirm  the  legitimacy  of  a  State  that 
must now achieve its independence, namely, Palestine. 
We have not come here to add further complications to 
the peace process, which Israel’s policies have cast into 
disarray. Rather, we have come to launch a final serious 
attempt  to  achieve  peace.  We  seek  not  to  put  an  end 
to what remains of the negotiations process, which has 
lost its utility and credibility, but rather to try to breathe 
new life into the negotiations. We seek to ensure a solid 
foundation  for  that  process,  on  the  basis  of  the  terms 
of reference of the relevant international resolutions, so 
that the negotiations can succeed. 
On behalf of the Palestine Liberation Organization, 
I say that we will not give up, we will not tire and our 
determination will not wane. We will continue to strive 
to achieve a just peace. However, above all, I affirm that 
our people will not relinquish their inalienable national 
rights,  as  defined  by  United  Nations  resolutions.  Our 
people  cling  to  the  right  to  defend  themselves  against 
aggression  and  occupation.  They  will  continue  their 
popular  and  peaceful  resistance  and  their  historic 
resolve  and  will  to  build  their  land.  They  will  end  the 
hateful  division  and  strengthen  their  national  unity. 
We  will  accept  no  less  than  the  independence  of  the 
State  of  Palestine,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital, 
on all the Palestinian territory occupied in 1967, living 
in  peace  and  security  alongside  the  State  of  Israel,  as 
well  as  a  solution  to  the  refugee  issue  on  the  basis  of 
resolution  194  (III),  in  line  with  the  operative  part  of 
the Arab Peace Initiative.
I do not believe that this is some kind of terrorism 
that we pursue in the United Nations. Nevertheless, in 
that connection, we once again reiterate the warning that 
the window of opportunity is narrowing and that time 
will soon run out. Patience is wearing thin and hope is 
withering.  The  innocent  lives  that  have  been  taken  by 
Israeli bombs — amounting to more than 168 martyrs, 
mostly  children  and  women,  including  12  members  of 
the  Dalou  family  in  Gaza  —  are  a  painful  reminder 
to  the  world  that  the  racist  and  colonial  occupation  is 
making  the  two-State  solution,  and  the  prospect  for 
realizing  peace,  a  very  difficult,  if  not  an  impossible, 
choice.  It  is  time  for  action  and  the  moment  to  move 
forward. That is why we are here today.
The  world  is  being  asked  today  to  answer  a 
specific question that we have often repeated: is there 
a  surplus  of  people  in  our  region?  Tell  us.  The  world 
must  say  whether  we  are  a  surplus  people  or  whether 
there is a State missing, which must be established on 
its land, that is, in Palestine. The world is being asked 
to  take  a  significant  step  in  the  process  of  rectifying 
the  unprecedented  historical  injustice  inf licted  on  the 
Palestinian people since Al-Nakba of 1948.
in 
Every  vote 
the  Assembly  supporting  our 
endeavour  today  is  a  most  valuable  voice  of  courage, 
and every State that grants support today to Palestine’s 
request  for  non-member  observer  State  status  is 
affirming its principled and moral support for freedom, 
the rights of peoples, international law and peace. The 
Assembly’s support for our endeavour today will send 
a  promising  message  to  millions  of  Palestinians  in 
the land of Palestine and in the refugee camps both in 
the  homeland  and  throughout  the  diaspora  and  to  the 
prisoners  struggling  for  freedom  in  Israel’s  prisons 
that  justice  is  possible  and  that  there  is  a  reason  to  be 
hopeful, and that the peoples of the world do not accept 
the continuation of the occupation. That is why we are 
here today.
The  support  of  the  Assembly  for  our  endeavour 
today will give a reason for hope to a people besieged 
by a racist, colonial occupation. Unfortunately, failure 
in this endeavour would almost amount to complicity in 
Israel’s aggression and in a state of paralysis that some 
are  striving  to  impose  on  the  will  of  the  international 
community.  The  Assembly’s  support  will  confirm  to 
our people that they are not alone and that their wager 
on international law will never be a losing proposition.
In  our  endeavour  today  to  acquire  non-member 
observer  status  for  Palestine  in  the  United  Nations, 
4 
12-61635
we  reaffirm  that  Palestine  will  always  adhere  to  and 
respect  the  Charter  and  resolutions  of  the  United 
Nations  and  international  humanitarian  law,  uphold 
equality,  guarantee  civil  liberties,  uphold  the  rule  of 
law,  promote  democracy  and  pluralism,  and  uphold 
and  protect  the  rights  of  women.  That  is  what  we  are 
pledging  today.  As  we  promised  our  friends  and  our 
brothers  and  sisters,  we  will  continue  to  consult  with 
them  upon  the  approval  of  our  request  to  upgrade 
Palestine’s status by this body. We will act responsibly 
and  positively  in  our  next  steps,  and  we  will  work  to 
strengthen cooperation with the countries and peoples 
of the world for the sake of a just peace.
Sixty-five  years  ago  on  this  day,  the  General 
Assembly adopted resolution 181 (II), which partitioned 
the land of historic Palestine into two States and became 
the birth certificate for Israel. Sixty-five years later and 
on  the  same  day,  which  this  body  has  designated  the 
International  Day  of  Solidarity  with  the  Palestinian 
People,  the  General  Assembly  stands  before  a  moral 
duty, which it must not hesitate to undertake; before an 
historic  duty,  which  cannot  endure  further  delay;  and 
before a practical duty to salvage the chances for peace, 
which is urgent and cannot be postponed.
The General Assembly is called upon today to issue 
a birth certificate to the reality of the State of Palestine. 
That  is  specifically  why  we  are  here  today.  Our  hope 
is in God and in the General Assembly. May peace be 
upon the Assembly. 
Mr.  Prosor  (Israel):  Today  I  stand  before  the 
Assembly,  tall  and  proud,  because  I  represent  the 
world’s  one  and  only  Jewish  State,  a  State  built  in  the 
Jewish  people’s  ancient  homeland,  with  its  eternal 
capital, Jerusalem, as its beating heart. We are a nation 
with  deep  roots  in  the  past  and  bright  hopes  for  the 
future.  We  are  a  nation  that  values  idealism  but  acts 
with pragmatism. Israel is a nation that never hesitates 
to defend itself, but will always, always extend its hand 
for peace. 
Peace is a central value of Israeli society. The Bible 
calls on us and says “Seek peace and pursue it”. Peace 
fills  our  art  and  poetry.  It  is  taught  in  our  schools.  It 
has been the goal of the Israeli people and every Israeli 
leader  since  Israel  was  re-established  64  years  ago. 
Israel’s declaration of independence states: 
“We  extend  our  hand  to  all  neighbouring  States 
and  their  peoples  in  an  offer  of  peace  and  good 
A/67/PV.44
neighbourliness,  and  appeal  to  them  to  establish 
bonds of cooperation and mutual help”. 
This  week  was  the  thirty-fifth  anniversary  of 
President Anwar Sadat’s historic visit to Jerusalem. In 
a speech just before the visit, President Sadat famously 
stood  in  the  Egyptian  Parliament  in  Cairo  and  stated 
that  he  would  go  “to  the  ends  of  the  Earth”  to  make 
peace  with  Israel.  Israel’s  Prime  Minister  at  the  time, 
Menachem  Begin,  welcomed  President  Sadat  to  Israel 
and  paved  the  way  for  peace.  This  morning,  Prime 
Minister  Netanyahu  stood  at  the  Menachem  Begin 
Center and said this about the draft resolution on which 
the General Assembly is about to vote:
“Israel  is  prepared  to  live  in  peace  with  a 
Palestinian  State,  but  for  peace  to  endure,  Israel’s 
security  must  be  protected.  The  Palestinians 
must  recognize  the  Jewish  State  and  they  must  be 
prepared  to  end  the  conf lict  with  Israel  once  and 
for  all.  None  of  these  vital  interests,  these  vital 
interests  of  peace,  none  of  them  appear  in  the 
draft resolution that will be put forward before the 
General  Assembly  today,  and  that  is  why  Israel 
cannot  accept  it.  The  only  way  to  achieve  peace 
is  through  agreements  that  are  reached  by  the 
parties and not through United Nations resolutions 
that  completely  ignore  Israel’s  vital  security  and 
national  interests.  And  because  this  resolution  is 
so one-sided, it doesn’t advance peace; it pushes it 
backwards.
“As for the rights of Jewish people in this land, 
I have a simple message for those people gathered 
in the General Assembly today: no decision by the 
United  Nations  can  break  the  4,000  year-old  bond 
between the people of Israel and the land of Israel.”
The  people  of  Israel  wait  for  a  Palestinian  leader 
who  is  willing  to  follow  in  the  footsteps  of  President 
Sadat.  The  world  waits  for  President  Abbas  to  speak 
the  truth  that  peace  can  be  achieved  only  through 
negotiations by recognizing Israel as a Jewish State. It 
waits for him to tell them that peace must also address 
Israel’s security needs and end the conf lict once and for 
all.  For  as  long  as  President  Abbas  prefers  symbolism 
over reality, as long as he prefers to travel to New York 
for United Nations resolutions, rather than to Jerusalem 
for genuine dialogue, any hope of peace will be out of 
reach.
Israel  has  always  extended  its  hand  in  peace  and 
will always extend its hand for peace. When we faced 
12-61635
5
A/67/PV.44
an  Arab  leader  who  wanted  peace,  we  made  peace. 
That  was  the  case  with  Egypt,  and  that  was  the  case 
with  Jordan.  Time  and  again,  we  have  sought  peace 
with  the  Palestinians.  Time  and  again,  we  have  been 
met by rejection of our offers, denial of our rights and 
terrorism targeting our citizens.
President  Abbas  described  today’s  proceedings  as 
historic,  but  the  only  historic  thing  about  his  speech 
was how much it ignored history. 
The  truth  is  that  65  years  ago  today,  the  United 
Nations voted to partition the British Mandate into two 
States: a Jewish State and an Arab State. Two States for 
two peoples. Israel accepted that plan. The Palestinians 
and Arab nations around us rejected it and launched a 
war of annihilation to throw the Jews into the sea.
The truth is that from 1948 until 1967 the West Bank 
was ruled by Jordan and Gaza was ruled by Egypt. The 
Arab States did not lift a finger to create a Palestinian 
State.  Instead,  they  sought  Israel’s  destruction  and 
were  joined  by  newly  formed  Palestinian  terrorist 
organizations.
The truth is that at Camp David in 2000, and again 
at Annapolis in 2008, Israeli leaders made far-reaching 
offers  for  peace.  Those  offers  were  met  by  rejection, 
evasion and even terrorism. The truth is that to advance 
peace,  in  2005  Israel  dismantled  entire  communities 
and uprooted thousands of people from their homes in 
the Gaza Strip. And rather than use that opportunity to 
build  a  peaceful  future,  the  Palestinians  turned  Gaza 
into  an  Iranian  terror  base,  from  which  thousands 
of  rockets  were  fired  into  Israeli  cities.  As  we  were 
reminded just last week, the area has been turned into a 
launching pad for rockets into Israeli cities, a haven for 
global  terrorists  and  an  ammunition  dump  for  Iranian 
weapons.
Time  after  time,  the  Palestinian  leadership  has 
refused  to  accept  responsibility.  They  have  refused  to 
make the tough decisions for peace.
Israel remains committed to peace, but we will not 
establish another Iranian terror base in the heart of our 
country. We need a peace that will endure, a peace that 
will secure the future of Israel.
Three months ago, Israel’s Prime Minister stood in 
this  very  Hall,  at  this  very  rostrum  (see  A/67/PV.12), 
and  extended  his  hand  in  peace  to  President  Abbas. 
He  reiterated  that  his  goal  was  to  create  a  solution 
of  two  States  for  two  peoples,  where  a  demilitarized 
Palestinian  State  would  recognize  Israel  as  a  Jewish 
State. That is right — two States for two peoples.
In  fact,  I  did  not  hear  President  Abbas  use  the 
phrase “two States for two peoples” this afternoon. In 
fact, I have never heard him say the phrase “two States 
for two peoples”, because the Palestinian leadership has 
never  recognized  that  Israel  is  the  nation  State  of  the 
Jewish people. They have never been willing to accept 
what this very body recognized 65 years ago — Israel 
is  the  Jewish  State.  In  fact,  today  he  asked  the  world 
to  recognize  a  Palestinian  State,  but  he  still  refused 
to  recognize  the  Jewish  State.  Not  only  does  he  not 
recognize  the  Jewish  State,  he  is  also  trying  to  erase 
Jewish  history.  This  year,  he  even  tried  to  erase  the 
connection  between  the  Jewish  people  and  Jerusalem. 
He  said  that  Jews  were  trying  to  alter  the  historical 
character  of  Jerusalem.  He  said  that  we  are  trying  to 
“Judaize Jerusalem”.
I  would  like  to  say  to  President  Abbas  that  the 
truth  is  that  Jerusalem  had  a  Jewish  character  long 
before most cities in the world had any character. Three 
thousand years ago, King David ruled from Jerusalem, 
and Jews have lived in Jerusalem ever since.
It is time that President Abbas, instead of revising 
history,  started  making  history  by  making  peace  with 
Israel.
This draft resolution (A/67/L.28) will not advance 
peace.  This  draft  resolution  will  not  change  the 
situation  on  the  ground.  It  will  not  change  the  fact 
that  the  Palestinian  Authority  has  no  control  over 
Gaza  —  and  that  is  40  per  cent  of  the  territory  they 
claim  to  represent.  President  Abbas  cannot  even  visit 
nearly  half  the  territory  of  the  State  he  claims  to 
represent.  That  territory  is  controlled  by  Hamas,  an 
internationally  recognized  terrorist  organization  that 
rains  missiles  on  Israeli  civilians.  That  is  the  same 
Hamas that fired more than 1,300 rockets into the heart 
of Israel’s major cities this month.
This  draft  resolution  will  not  confer  statehood  on 
the  Palestinian  Authority,  which  clearly  fails  to  meet 
the criteria for statehood. This draft resolution will not 
enable  the  Palestinian  Authority  to  join  international 
treaties,  organizations  or  conferences  as  a  State.  This 
draft  resolution  cannot  serve  as  acceptable  terms  of 
reference  for  peace  negotiations  with  Israel  because  it 
says  nothing  about  Israel’s  security  needs.  It  does  not 
call on the Palestinians to recognize Israel as the Jewish 
6 
12-61635
State, and it does not demand an end to the conf lict and 
a termination of all claims.
Let me tell the Assembly what this draft resolution 
does  do.  This  draft  resolution  violates  fundamental 
binding  commitments,  including  a  commitment  that 
many of the States represented here today in this Hall 
were  themselves  witness  to  —  a  commitment  that 
all  outstanding  issues  in  the  peace  process  would  be 
resolved only in direct negotiations. The draft resolution 
sends  a  message  that  the  international  community  is 
willing to turn a blind eye to peace agreements. 
For the people of Israel, it raises a simple question: 
Why  continue  to  make  painful  sacrifices  for  peace  in 
exchange  for  pieces  of  paper  that  the  other  side  will 
not honour? It will make a negotiated peace settlement 
less  likely,  as  Palestinians  continue  to  harden  their 
positions and place further obstacles and preconditions 
to  negotiations  and  peace.  And,  unfortunately,  it  will 
raise expectations that cannot be met, which has always 
proven to be a recipe for conf lict and instability.
There is only one route to Palestinian statehood, and 
that route does not run through this Hall in New York. 
That  route  runs  through  direct  negotiations  between 
Jerusalem and Ramallah that will lead to a secure and 
lasting  peace  between  Israelis  and  Palestinians.  There 
are no shortcuts, no quick fixes and no instant solutions. 
As  President  Obama  said  in  2010,  “Peace  cannot  be 
imposed from the outside”.
The  real  message  of  this  draft  resolution  for  the 
people of Israel is that the international community will 
turn a blind eye to violations of these agreements by the 
Palestinians.
In submitting this draft resolution, the Palestinian 
leadership  is  once  again  making  the  wrong  choice. 
Sixty-five years ago, Palestinians could have chosen to 
live side by side with the Jewish State of Israel. Sixty-
five  years  ago,  they  could  have  chosen  to  accept  the 
solution of two States for two peoples. They rejected it 
then, and they are rejecting it again today.
The international community should not encourage 
that  rejection.  It  should  not  encourage  the  Palestinian 
leadership  to  drive  forward  recklessly  with  both  feet 
pressing  down  on  the  gas,  no  hands  on  the  wheel  and 
no  eyes  on  the  road.  Instead,  it  should  encourage  the 
Palestinians  to  enter  into  direct  negotiations  without 
preconditions  in  order  to  achieve  an  historic  peace  in 
which a demilitarized Palestinian State recognizes the 
Jewish State.
A/67/PV.44
Winston Churchill said, “The truth is incontrovertible. 
Panic may resent it, ignorance may deride it, malice may 
distort it, but there it is”. The truth is that Israel wants 
peace, and the Palestinians are avoiding peace.
Those who are supporting the draft resolution today 
are not advancing peace; they are undermining peace. 
The United Nations was founded to advance the cause 
of peace. Today the Palestinians are turning their back 
on peace. Let not history record that today the United 
Nations helped them along on their march of folly.
Mr.  Natalegawa  (Indonesia):  The  time  has  come. 
The time has come for the international community to 
set  things  right.  No  longer  can  the  world  turn  a  blind 
eye  to  the  long  sufferings  of  the  Palestinian  people, 
the denial of their basic human rights and fundamental 
freedoms  and  the  obstruction  of  their  rights  to  self-
determination and to independence. No longer can the 
world deny the fact that despite the enormous barriers 
erected  by  the  occupying  Power,  Palestinians  have 
diligently  and  with  great  resolve  built  the  capacity  to 
function  as  a  State  ready  to  stand  equal  to  any  other 
State  in  this  Assembly  and  ready  to  unleash  its  full 
potential as a positive force for progress.
There  can  be  no  reason,  therefore,  why  the 
international community cannot endorse the request to 
accord non-member observer State status to Palestine, 
an entity that some 24 years ago the Assembly, through 
its resolution 43/177, acknowledged as a State. Indonesia 
is  therefore  a  sponsor  of  the  draft  resolution  before 
the  Assembly  (A/67/L.28),  and  we  reiterate  the  hope 
that  Palestine’s  application  for  full  membership  in  the 
United Nations will be favourably considered. We hold 
that Palestine’s full membership is consistent with the 
shared vision of a two-State solution. We believe that an 
independent  State  of  Palestine,  with  equal  rights  and, 
indeed,  responsibilities  equal  to  those  of  other  States, 
will  contribute  to  the  attainment  of  a  just,  lasting  and 
comprehensive peace in the Middle East.
The  recent  cycle  of  indiscriminate  violence  and 
disproportionate  use  of  force  in  Gaza,  Palestine, 
serves as a serious reminder of the need for an earnest 
resumption  and  acceleration  of  the  peace  process  and 
thus of the need to create conditions conducive to that 
process. That means ending illegal settlement activities 
and lifting the blockade of Gaza, thereby putting to an 
end the inhumane policy of collective punishment. There 
is a need, too, for Palestine to enhance intra-Palestinian 
dialogue at this very historic moment.
12-61635
7
A/67/PV.44
By according non-member observer State status to 
the State of Palestine, we are signaling the primacy of 
diplomacy and the rejection of violence. We are making 
a  strong  statement  on  the  need  for  mutual  respect 
among nations. We are placing faith in the principle of 
universality of membership of the United Nations. We 
are  beginning  to  redress  a  festering  historic  injustice, 
and  we  are  affirm  that  all  of  humankind,  including 
the  long-suffering  people  of  Palestine,  are  entitled  to 
human rights and fundamental freedoms.
Mr.  Baird 
(Canada):  Canada  opposes  draft 
resolution A/67/L.28 in the strongest of terms because 
it  undermines  the  core  foundations  of  a  decades-long 
commitment on the part of the international community 
and  the  parties  themselves  to  a  two-State  solution, 
arrived at through direct negotiations.
While we understand that a ﬁ nal resolution remains 
elusive,  Canada  has  long  opposed  unilateral  actions 
by  either  side,  as  they  are  unhelpful.  The  outstanding 
issues are too intricate and too complex to be resolved 
by simplistic unilateral measures. We do not believe that 
unilateral  measures  taken  by  one  side  can  be  justified 
by  accusations  of  unilateralism  directed  at  the  other. 
That approach can only result in the steady erosion and 
collapse of the very foundations of a process that, while 
incomplete, holds the only realistic chance of bringing 
about  two  peaceful,  prosperous  States  living  side  by 
side as neighbours.
Canada’s  support  for  a  negotiated  settlement,  like 
our opposition to the initiative before us today, is rooted 
in the very history of this venerable Organization and in 
the sustained international effort to resolve this matter. 
Canada was proud to be one of the countries preparing 
the blueprint for peace as part of the 1947 United Nations 
Special Committee on Palestine. That Committee came 
up  with  the  proposal  for  a  two-State  solution  —  one 
predominantly  Jewish  and  the  other  predominantly 
Arab,  living  side  by  side  —  that  ultimately  resulted, 
in November 1947, in the passage of resolution 181 (II) 
setting out the Partition Plan. However, not all of those 
who  should  have  supported  that  vision  were  prepared 
to do so, and the people of the region have suffered for 
seven decades as a result.
Even  in  those  early,  difficult  days,  however,  the 
principle  of  collaboration  between  the  two  parties 
was  seen  as  an  inherent  necessity,  as  ref lected  in  the 
elaboration  of  a  plan  for  economic  union  between  the 
two  sides.  While  resolution  181  (II)  has  never  been 
fully implemented, the principle — the idea that the two 
parties  need  to  work  together  to  achieve  their  mutual 
and intertwined destinies and potential — has survived 
as  an  essential  ingredient  in  successive  efforts  to  find 
an elusive peace.
In  1948,  resolution  194  (III)  set  up  a  Conciliation 
Commission  aimed  at  finding  solutions  to  the  full 
range of problems facing the two sides. It established an 
important principle in calling for the parties involved to 
seek agreement through negotiations, with a view to the 
final  settlement  of  all  questions  outstanding  between 
them.
In 1967, the Security Council adopted resolution 242 
(1967). The Council requested the dispatch of a special 
representative  of  the  Secretary-General  to  the  region 
to  promote  agreement  and  assist  efforts  to  achieve  a 
peaceful  and  accepted  settlement,  entrenching  further 
the principle that solutions required the acceptance and 
collective action of both sides. That idea was reaffirmed 
in 1973 in Council resolution 338 (1973), which decided 
that  immediately  and  concurrently  with  the  ceasefire, 
negotiations should start between the parties concerned 
under appropriate auspices aimed at establishing a just 
and durable peace.
Those 
two  Security  Council  resolutions,  242 
(1967)  and  338  (1973),  form  the  explicitly  recognized 
cornerstone  of  all  subsequent  peace  commitments, 
accords  and  understandings  between  the  two  parties, 
enshrining the need for negotiations as a core principle.
Both  the  Israelis  and  the  Palestinians  reaffirmed 
their  acceptance  of  the  principles  and  obligations  laid 
out in both resolutions in 1993, with the historic signing 
of the Oslo Accords. Article I made the point explicitly 
in  highlighting  that  the  interim  arrangements  are  an 
integral  part  of  the  whole  peace  process  and  that  the 
negotiations  on  the  permanent  status  will  lead  to  the 
implementation  of  Security  Council  resolutions  242 
(1967) and 338 (1993).
In  1995,  the  Oslo  II  agreement  built  on  those 
important  foundations.  In  the  preamble,  both  sides 
reaffirmed  their  desire  to  achieve  a  just,  lasting 
and  comprehensive  peace  settlement  and  historic 
reconciliation  through  the  agreed  political  process. 
Final  clause  7,  under  article  XXXI,  stipulated  that 
neither  side  shall  initiate  or  take  any  step  that  will 
change the status of the West Bank and Gaza pending 
the outcome of the permanent status negotiations.
Those  principles  were  again  reaffirmed  in  2002. 
Security  Council  resolution  1397  (2002)  called  on 
8 
12-61635
the  Israeli  and  Palestinian  sides  and  their  leaders  to 
cooperate in the implementation of the Tenet work plan 
and Mitchell Report recommendations with the aim of 
resuming negotiations on a political settlement. It also 
offered support to the Secretary-General and others in 
their efforts to resume the peace process.
The following year, 2003, the Middle East Quartet 
was  established.  It  developed  the  road  map,  which 
was  a  performance-based,  goal-driven  plan  covering 
peace,  security  and  humanitarian  areas.  Its  approach 
and  directions  were  based  explicitly  on  the  principles 
contained  in  Security  Council  resolutions  242  (1967), 
338  (1973)  and  1397  (2002).  A  key  element  of  the 
Quartet  principles  contained  in  the  road  map  was 
that  a  clear,  unambiguous  acceptance  by  both  parties 
of  the  goal  of  a  negotiated  settlement  was  needed  to 
reach  the  destination.  It  goes  on  to  underscore  that  a 
settlement  negotiated  between  the  parties  will  result 
in  the  emergence  of  an  independent,  democratic,  and 
viable  Palestinian  State  living  side  by  side  in  peace 
and  security  with  Israel  and  its  other  neighbours. 
The  Quartet  road  map  requires,  by  its  very  nature,  a 
collaborative effort explicitly requiring reciprocal steps 
by the two sides.
Later  that  year,  Security  Council  resolution  1515 
(2003) formally endorsed the Quartet road map, while 
calling  on  the  parties  to  fulfil  their  obligations  under 
the  road  map  in  cooperation  with  the  Quartet  and  to 
achieve  the  vision  of  two  States  living  side  by  side  in 
peace and security.
Resolution  1850  (2008)  underscored  the  Council’s 
the  negotiations  undertaken 
explicit  support  for 
in  Annapolis  in  2007  and  its  commitment  to  the 
irreversibility  of 
the  bilateral  negotiations.  That 
resolution  reaffirmed  international  support  for  the 
Quartet  principles  and  supported  the  determination 
of  both  parties  to  reach  their  goal  of  concluding  a 
peace  treaty  resolving  all  outstanding  issues,  without 
exception.  It  also  called  on  both  sides  to  refrain  from 
any steps that could undermine confidence or prejudice 
the outcome of negotiations.
Successive  Security  Council 
resolutions  and 
various international commitments and understandings 
over  nearly  seven  decades  have  formed  the  building 
blocks  of  a  collaborative  peace  process  that  remains 
unfinished. The path to peace has historically rested in 
direct  negotiations  between  the  two  parties  to  resolve 
the  outstanding  issues,  and  it  remains  the  same  today. 
A/67/PV.44
Solutions can come only through the two sides working 
together.
The draft resolution before us will not advance the 
cause  of  peace  or  spur  a  return  to  negotiations.  Will 
the Palestinian people be better off as a result? No. On 
the  contrary,  this  unilateral  step  will  harden  positions 
and raise unrealistic expectations while doing nothing 
to improve the lives of the Palestinian people.
Canada is committed to a comprehensive, just and 
lasting  peace  in  the  Middle  East,  whereby  two  States 
live side by side in peace, security and prosperity. Any 
two-State  solution  must  be  negotiated  between  and 
mutually  agreed  upon  by  both  sides.  Any  unilateral 
action, by either side, outside of the bilateral framework 
outlined above is ultimately unhelpful.
Canada has long supported efforts to bring the two 
sides to the bargaining table to resolve all outstanding 
issues,  and  we  remain  committed  to  that  objective 
today.  But  we  cannot  support  an  initiative  that  we 
are  firmly  convinced  will  undermine  the  objective  of 
reaching  a  comprehensive,  lasting  and  just  settlement 
for  both  sides.  It  is  for  those  reasons  that  Canada  is 
voting  against  the  draft  resolution.  As  a  result  of  this 
body’s  utterly  regrettable  decision  to  abandon  policy 
and principle, we will be considering all available next 
steps.
We  call  on  both  sides  to  return  to  the  negotiating 
table  without  preconditions.  Canada  will  be  there  to 
offer its good offices and full support.
Mr.  Davutoğlu  (Turkey):  In  Turkish  we  have  a 
saying: “One who closes his eyes only makes himself a 
night”. For 65 years, the whole world has shut its eyes to 
the plight of the Palestinian people. For many decades, 
we  closed  our  eyes  to  the  right  of  Palestinian  people 
to their State. And for 65 years, no resolution adopted 
by  this  body  supporting  a  Palestinian  State  has  been 
honoured. 
However, no one can wash away the sorrow of the 
Palestinian people by just closing his eyes. The reality 
of Palestine is simple, yet harsh. It is on the streets of 
Gaza,  where  thousands  of  people  suffer  an  inhumane 
blockade in an open prison. It is on the streets of the West 
Bank, where people have to go through checkpoints on 
nearly every corner. It is in the heart of the Palestinian 
people, who have been subjected to exiles, massacres, 
wars,  collective  punishment  and  blockades  for  many 
decades. The reality of Palestine is a bleeding wound in 
the conscience of all humanity — of all of us.
12-61635
9
A/67/PV.44
I personally witnessed that reality when I recently 
visited  Gaza  with  a  group  of  Arab  ministers  at  the 
height  of  the  recent  crisis.  In  Shifa  hospital,  in  Gaza, 
I  came  across  a  father  —  Basil  Asheva  —  who  had 
lost  his  daughter  Yusha  a  moment  earlier,  during  the 
bombardment that also left his wife severely wounded. 
Leaning  his  head  on  my  chest  to  seek  some  relief,  he 
had no words, only tears, to tell of his family’s tragedy. 
His tears ref lected not only his personal sorrow, but also 
the tragedy of the whole Palestinian nation, desperately 
seeking relief.
beside  this  building.  That  f lag  will  not  only  represent 
an  independent  Member  State  among  our  family  of 
nations.  It  will  represent  the  fact  that  we  have  finally 
stood  together  to  correct  a  decades-long  injustice  to 
the Palestinian people and the State of Palestine. That 
is  our  responsibility  to  the  Palestinian  people.  Let  me 
be  clear.  Our  vision  of  justice,  international  order  and 
human  rights  will  not  be  achieved  until  the  moment 
that  we  actually  see  the  f lag  of  the  State  of  Palestine 
standing side by side with ours, as a full Member of the 
United Nations. And that day will come soon.
Today  is  a  milestone.  Finally,  today  we  have  a 
chance  to  open  our  eyes  to  reality.  Today  we  have  an 
opportunity  to  give  comfort  to  the  Palestinian  people 
who  aspire  to  have  a  chance  to  uphold  their  dignity, 
after years of humiliation. I am pleased and honoured, 
therefore, to participate in this historic meeting of the 
General Assembly. We have gathered here to correct a 
historical injustice against the Palestinian people.
We  all  believe  in  and  cherish  the  vision  of  a  just, 
peaceful  and  harmonious  future.  For  that  future,  we 
should all stand together behind the Palestinian bid to 
become a non-member observer State. It is a moment of 
truth for all of us. We are all aware that the right of the 
Palestinians to a State has, unfortunately, been denied 
for decades. The denial of that right of the Palestinians 
has  no  justification  on  any  ground,  whether  moral, 
political or legal.
Last year, the President of the Palestinian Authority, 
Mahmoud  Abbas,  submitted  an  application  for  United 
Nations  membership  for  Palestine  (see  A/66/PV.19). 
Unfortunately, the application has been left unanswered 
by  the  Security  Council.  Here  comes  another  chance 
for  us.  We  call  on  the  international  community,  the 
members  of  this  body,  to  honour  their  already  belated 
obligation  to  the  Palestinians  and  to  grant  them  the 
status of a non-member State. It is high time for all of 
us to uphold the universal values of justice and dignity. 
If  there  is  one  term  that  characterizes  humankind,  it 
is  dignity.  One  can  do  without  bread,  but  not  without 
dignity.  The  struggle  of  the  Palestinian  people  over 
the  past  65  years  has  also  been  about  protecting  their 
dignity.  They  want  respect  and  recognition  of  their 
right to determine their fate and future.
We  cannot  shy  away  from  supporting  a  fully 
legitimate  demand  by 
to 
have  a  State  of  their  own.  If  we  are  to  talk  about  an 
international  order  and  place  our  trust  in  the  United 
Nations  system,  then  the  Palestinian  f lag  should  f ly 
the  Palestinian  people 
We  have  three  main  reasons  to  do  so.  First  and 
foremost,  it  is  a  humanitarian  and  moral  obligation 
on  our  part.  No  one  can  deny  the  suffering  of  the 
Palestinians  since  the  First  World  War  until  today. 
There  has  always  been  an  excuse  for  the  inhumane 
treatment of the Palestinian people. 
Secondly,  it  is  about  the  political  and  historical 
context. Unfortunately, the negotiation process towards 
a comprehensive peace on the basis of two States, living 
side by side in peace, has been put on ice. Instead, we 
see  a  deviation,  day  by  day,  from  the  internationally 
accepted solution that calls for an independent Palestine 
established  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital  inside 
its  1967  borders.  The  current  status  quo  is  neither 
sustainable  nor  acceptable.  The  recent  Israeli  attack 
on  Gaza,  which  resulted  in  the  loss  of  many  innocent 
civilian lives, was a testimony to that fact. Meanwhile, 
the  continued  expansion  of  the  illegal  settlements 
undermines the vision of a two-State solution.
The  third  aspect  concerns  our  strategic  vision 
for  Palestine  and  for  our  region.  Peace  in  the  Middle 
East and beyond cannot be achieved without a just and 
comprehensive resolution to the Palestinian issue. The 
deadlock in the negotiations and the current stalemate 
in the region serve the interest of no one. Supporting the 
Palestinian bid is about whether we want a lasting peace 
in the Middle East and beyond. Granting Palestine the 
status  of  a  non-member  observer  State  at  the  United 
Nations will serve as a booster. It will create the long-
needed  momentum  for  a  negotiated,  comprehensive 
solution, rather than serve as a substitute for it. Our call 
is for peace, no more and no less.
We  need  to  address  the  issue  in  a  constructive 
and  unbiased  manner.  It  requires  wisdom,  prudence 
and vision to no longer deny the prospect of peace and 
stability in the region. It obliges us to listen to the call 
for relief and justice for the Palestinian people, to which 
we have turned a deaf ear so far.
10 
12-61635
I  would  also  like  to  address  certain  misguided 
efforts aimed at stopping the Palestinians from winning 
statehood at the United Nations. The argument that the 
Palestinians  must  resume  negotiations  before  getting 
statehood is superficial. We regret to see that there have 
also been efforts to deter the Palestinians in their bid at 
the United Nations, as well as efforts to dissuade United 
Nations  Members  from  supporting  that  bid.  We  have 
often heard, “Now is not the right time”, as was the case 
when President Abbas submitted the Palestinian bid for 
membership to the Secretary-General.
For some, the timing was also not right when the late 
President Arafat read out the Palestinian declaration of 
independence on 15 November 1988. One can trace the 
argument back to when the General Assembly adopted 
resolution  181  (II),  on  the  partition,  on  this  very  date 
in 1947. So let me ask bluntly: If not now, when? When 
will it be the right time for the Palestinians to achieve 
their right to statehood, if not today?
The current stalemate in the peace process can no 
longer be used as a pretext to undermine the Palestinian 
bid  for  becoming  an  internationally  recognized  State. 
The recognition of Palestinian statehood is not an option 
but a moral, political, strategic and legal obligation for 
the international community. And I want to address and 
salute  all  Palestinians  from  Al-Khalil  to  Bethlehem, 
from  Jenin  to  Ariha,  from  Ramallah  to  Khan  Yunis, 
from Jerusalem — Al Quds Al-Sharif — to Gaza. 
Turkey will stand by the Palestinians forever. They 
are not alone, and we will not abandon them. We will stand 
by them until there is a free and independent Palestine, 
with Al-Quds Al-Sharif as its capital, now and forever. 
I call on all United Nations Members to fulfil their long 
overdue  responsibility  towards  the  Palestinians.  I  call 
on them to fulfil a long overdue promise, made with the 
General Assembly resolution 181 (II) of 1947.
Draft resolution A/67/L.28, on which members will 
be voting shortly, will be only an initial step in the right 
direction  to  bring  some  relief  to  the  entire  Palestinian 
nation. Now is the moment of truth. It is time to defend 
the basic right of the Palestinians to statehood. The f lag 
of Palestine should rise in this Assembly next to ours. 
The  State  of  Palestine  must  be  moved  from  the  shade 
and given its rightful place in the sun forever.
The President: Before proceeding to consider draft 
resolution  A/67/L.28,  entitled  “Status  of  Palestine  in 
the United Nations”, allow me to make a few remarks in 
A/67/PV.44
my capacity as the President of the General Assembly 
at its sixty-seventh session.
During the course of this meeting, we have had the 
distinct  privilege  of  hearing  from  the  representatives 
of  two  great  nations,  President  Mahmoud  Abbas  of 
Palestine  and  Ambassador  Ron  Prosor  of  the  State  of 
Israel.  They  are  each  children  of  Abraham  —  one  a 
descendant  of  Ishmael,  the  other  of  Isaac.  Both  come 
from a land that has been almost continuously tormented 
by conf lict over many centuries, with countless victims 
on all sides. The strife has not abated during the 67 years 
of the Organization’s existence, despite the fact that it 
came  into  being  to  save  succeeding  generations  from 
the scourge of war.
Notwithstanding  the  valiant  efforts  of  some  of 
the  greatest  statesmen  of  the  twentieth  century,  a 
negotiated,  comprehensive  settlement  enabling  Israel 
and Palestine to live side by side, in peace and security, 
has  yet  to  materialize.  And  so  we  continue  to  witness 
enmity, estrangement and mistrust as parents continue 
to bury their children.
In  today’s  globalized,  interconnected  world  what 
happens between the River Jordan and the shores of the 
Mediterranean has become the key to the security and 
well-being of all humankind.
I have no doubt that history will judge this day to 
have been fraught with significance. But whether it will 
come to be looked upon as a step in the right direction 
on  the  road  to  peace  will  depend  upon  how  we  bear 
ourselves in its wake. Let us therefore find the wisdom 
to act in furtherance of the goal that we all share.
In  coming  to  the  end  of  my  remarks,  allow  me  to 
extend  an  appeal  from  this  rostrum  to  all  memberes, 
in  particular  to  my  dear  friends  from  Palestine  and 
Israel,  to  work  for  peace,  to  negotiate  in  good  faith 
and,  ultimately,  to  succeed  in  reaching  the  historical 
settlement. That is our common and most solemn duty 
to the entire world, but first and foremost to the proud 
men  and  women  who  live  in  a  land  that  is  holy  to  so 
many of us.
In  the  Zohar  it  is  written  that  “God  is  peace,  his 
name is peace, and all is bound together in peace.” And 
in the Holy Koran we read that “Allah invites [all] to the 
abode  of  peace  and  guides  whom  he  pleases  onto  the 
right path” (The Holy Koran, X:25).
In a few moments, I will ask members to cast their 
ballots as they see fit. I am sure that each member will 
12-61635
11
A/67/PV.44
do so with a veritable feeling in their hearts that their 
choice is serving the cause of a righteous peace.
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution A/67/L.28, entitled “Status of Palestine in the 
United  Nations”.  I  give  the  f loor  to  Under-Secretary-
General Graisse.
Mr.  Graisse:  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and Conference Management): I should like to announce 
that, since the submission of draft resolution A/67/L.28, 
in addition to those delegations listed in the document, 
the 
following  countries  have  become  sponsors: 
Angola, Azerbaijan, Belarus, Belize, Grenada, Guinea, 
Kyrgyzstan,  the  Niger,  Sri  Lanka,  Suriname  and  Viet 
Nam.
The President: A recorded vote has been requested. 
A recorded vote was taken.
In favour:
Afghanistan, Algeria, Angola, Antigua and Barbuda, 
Argentina, Armenia, Austria, Azerbaijan, Bahrain, 
Bangladesh,  Belarus,  Belgium,  Belize,  Benin, 
Bhutan, Bolivia (Plurinational State of ), Botswana, 
Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Burkina Faso, Burundi, 
Cambodia, Cape Verde, Central African Republic, 
Chad, Chile, China, Comoros, Congo, Costa Rica, 
Côte  d’Ivoire,  Cuba,  Cyprus,  Democratic  People’s 
Republic of Korea, Denmark, Djibouti, Dominica, 
Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Egypt, El Salvador, 
Eritrea, Ethiopia, Finland, France, Gabon, Gambia, 
Georgia,  Ghana,  Greece,  Grenada,  Guinea, 
Guinea-Bissau, Guyana, Honduras, Iceland, India, 
Indonesia, Iran (Islamic Republic of ), Iraq, Ireland, 
Italy, Jamaica, Japan, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kenya, 
Kuwait,  Kyrgyzstan,  Lao  People’s  Democratic 
Republic, Lebanon, Lesotho, Libya, Liechtenstein, 
Luxembourg,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Mali,  Malta, 
Mauritania,  Mauritius,  Mexico,  Morocco, 
Mozambique,  Myanmar,  Namibia,  Nepal,  New 
Zealand,  Nicaragua,  Niger,  Nigeria,  Norway, 
Oman,  Pakistan,  Peru,  Philippines,  Portugal, 
Qatar,  Russian  Federation,  Saint  Kitts  and  Nevis, 
Saint  Lucia,  Saint  Vincent  and  the  Grenadines, 
Sao  Tome  and  Principe,  Saudi  Arabia,  Senegal, 
Serbia,  Seychelles,  Sierra  Leone,  Solomon 
Islands,  Somalia,  South  Africa,  South  Sudan, 
Spain,  Sri  Lanka,  Sudan,  Suriname,  Swaziland, 
Sweden,  Switzerland,  Syrian  Arab  Republic, 
Tajikistan,  Thailand,  Timor-Leste,  Trinidad  and 
Tobago,  Tunisia,  Turkey,  Turkmenistan,  Tuvalu, 
Uganda,  United  Arab  Emirates,  United  Republic 
of  Tanzania,  Uruguay,  Uzbekistan,  Venezuela 
(Bolivarian  Republic  of ),  Viet  Nam,  Yemen, 
Zambia, Zimbabwe
Against:
Canada,  Czech  Republic,  Israel,  Marshall  Islands, 
Micronesia  (Federated  States  of ),  Nauru,  Palau, 
Panama, United States of America
Abstaining:
Albania,  Andorra,  Australia,  Bahamas,  Barbados, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Bulgaria,  Cameroon, 
Colombia,  Croatia,  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo,  Estonia,  Fiji,  Germany,  Guatemala,  Haiti, 
Hungary,  Latvia,  Lithuania,  Malawi,  Monaco, 
Mongolia,  Montenegro,  Netherlands,  Papua  New 
Guinea,  Paraguay,  Poland,  Republic  of  Korea, 
Republic  of  Moldova,  Romania,  Rwanda,  Samoa, 
San  Marino,  Singapore,  Slovakia,  Slovenia,  the 
former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia,  Togo, 
Tonga,  United  Kingdom  of  Great  Britain  and 
Northern Ireland, Vanuatu
Draft  resolution  A/67/L.28  was  adopted  by  138 
votes to 9, with 41 abstentions (resolution 67/19).
The  President:  I  now  give  the  f loor  to  His 
Excellency Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon. 
The  Secretary-General:  An 
important  vote 
has  taken  place  today  in  the  General  Assembly.  The 
decision  by  the  General  Assembly  to  accord  Palestine 
non-member  State  status  in  the  United  Nations  was 
a  prerogative  of  the  Member  States.  I  stand  ready  to 
fulfil my role and report to the Assembly as requested 
in resolution 67/19. 
My position has been consistent all along. I believe 
that the Palestinians have a legitimate right to their own 
independent State. I believe that Israel has the right to 
live in peace and security with its neighbours. There is 
no substitute for negotiations to that end. 
Today’s  vote  underscores 
the  urgency  of  a 
resumption  of  meaningful  negotiations.  We  must  give 
a  new  impetus  to  our  collective  efforts  to  ensure  that 
an  independent,  sovereign,  democratic,  contiguous 
and  viable  State  of  Palestine  lives  side  by  side  with 
a  secure  State  of  Israel.  I  urge  the  parties  to  renew 
their commitment to a negotiated peace. I count on all 
concerned to act responsibly, preserve the achievements 
in  Palestinian  State-building  under  the  leadership 
of  President  Abbas  and  Prime  Minister  Fayyad,  and 
12 
12-61635
intensify efforts towards reconciliation and the just and 
lasting peace that remains our shared goal and priority. 
The  President:  I  thank  the  Secretary-General  for 
his statement. 
We  shall  now  proceed  to  explanations  of  vote.  I 
should  like  to  remind  delegations  that  explanations  of 
vote  are  limited  to  10  minutes  and  should be  made by 
delegations from their seats.
Ms.  Rice 
(United  States  of  America):  For 
decades, the United States has worked to help achieve 
a  comprehensive  end  to  the  long  and  tragic  Arab-
Israeli  conf lict.  We  have  always  been  clear  that  only 
through direct negotiations between the parties can the 
Palestinians  and  Israelis  achieve  the  peace  that  both 
deserve — two States for two peoples, with a sovereign, 
viable and independent Palestine living side by side in 
peace and security with a Jewish and democratic Israel.
That  remains  our  goal,  and  we  therefore  measure 
any  proposed  action  against  that  clear  yardstick. 
Will  it  bring  the  parties  closer  to  peace  or  push  them 
further  apart?  Will  it  help  Israelis  and  Palestinians 
return  to  negotiations  or  hinder  their  efforts  to  reach 
a mutually acceptable agreement? Today’s unfortunate 
and  counterproductive  resolution  67/19  places  further 
obstacles  in  the path  to peace.  That  is  why  the  United 
States voted against it.
The  backers  of  today’s  resolution  say  they  seek  a 
functioning,  independent  Palestinian  State  at  peace 
with  Israel.  So  do  we.  But  we  have  long  been  clear 
that  the  only  way  to  establish  such  a  Palestinian  State 
and  resolve  all  permanent  status  issues  is  through  the 
crucial, if painful work of direct negotiations between 
the  parties.  That  is  not  just  a  bedrock  commitment 
of  the  United  States.  Israel  and  the  Palestinians  have 
repeatedly  affirmed 
their  own  obligations  under 
existing agreements to resolve all issues through direct 
negotiations,  which  have  been  endorsed  frequently 
by  the  international  community.  The  United  States 
agrees — strongly.
Today’s  grand  pronouncements  will  soon  fade, 
and the Palestinian people will wake up tomorrow and 
find that little about their lives has changed, save that 
the  prospects  of  a  durable  peace  have  only  receded. 
The  United  States  therefore  calls  upon  both  parties  to 
resume  direct  talks  without  preconditions  on  all  the 
issues that divide them, and we pledge that the United 
States  will  be  there  to  support  the  parties  vigorously 
in  such  efforts.  The  United  States  will  continue  —  in 
A/67/PV.44
the  region,  in  New  York,  and  elsewhere —  to  urge  all 
parties to avoid any further provocative actions. We will 
continue to firmly oppose any and all unilateral actions 
in  international  bodies  or  treaties  that  circumvent  or 
prejudge the very outcomes that can only be negotiated, 
including  Palestinian  statehood,  and  we  will  continue 
to  stand  up  to  every  effort  that  seeks  to  delegitimize 
Israel or undermine its security.
Progress  towards  a  just  and  lasting  two-State 
solution  cannot  be  made  by  pressing  a  green  voting 
button here in this Hall, nor does adopting any resolution 
create  a  State  where  none  indeed  exists  or  change  the 
reality  on  the  ground.  For  that  reason,  today’s  voting 
should  not  be  misconstrued  by  any  as  constituting 
eligibility for United Nations membership. It does not. 
The  resolution  does  not  establish  that  Palestine  is  a 
State.
that 
The  United  States  believes 
the  current 
resolution should not and cannot be read as establishing 
terms  of  reference.  In  many  respects,  the  resolution 
prejudges  the  very  issues  it  says  are  to  be  resolved 
through  negotiation,  particularly  with  respect 
to 
territory.  At  the  same  time,  it  virtually  ignores  other 
core questions, such as security, that must be solved for 
any viable agreement to be achieved. President Obama 
has been clear in stating what the United States believes 
is  a  realistic  basis  for  successful  negotiations,  and  we 
will continue to base our efforts on that approach.
The  recent  conf lict  in  Gaza  is  just  the  latest 
reminder  that  the  absence  of  peace  risks  the  presence 
of  war.  We  urge  those  who  share  our  hopes  for  peace 
between  a  sovereign  Palestine  and  a  secure  Israel  to 
join us in supporting negotiations and not to encourage 
further  distractions.  There  simply  are  no  short  cuts. 
Long  after  the  votes  have  been  cast,  long  after  the 
speeches have been forgotten, it is the Palestinians and 
the  Israelis  who  must  still  talk  to  each  other  —  and 
listen  to  each  other  —  and  find  a  way  to  live  side  by 
side in the land they share.
Mr.  Araud  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  In  voting 
today for the recognition of Palestine as a non-member 
observer  State  of  the  Organization,  France  has  voted 
in  favour  of  the  two-State  solution,  of  two  States  for 
two  peoples,  Israel  and  Palestine,  living  side  by  side 
in peace and security within secure and internationally 
recognized borders; we have voted in favour of a solution 
that  we  had  advocated  before  the  entire  international 
community rallied to it — in favour of a solution today 
12-61635
13
A/67/PV.44
threatened by the impasse in the peace process. It is a 
clear-sighted and coherent choice.
France  is  ready  to  meet  it  as  a  friend  of  Israel  and  of 
Palestine.
As early as 1982, before the Knesset in Jerusalem, 
President  Mitterrand  called  for  the  creation  of  a 
Palestinian  State.  Since  then,  France  has  spared  no 
effort  to  promote  that  solution.  Following  in  that 
tradition,  President  François  Hollande  undertook 
in  2012  to  support  international  recognition  of  the 
Palestinian State.
France could not miss that rendezvous, which is a 
new  phase  in  moving  towards  the  two-State  solution. 
France  could  not  fail  to  hear  the  appeal  of  President 
Abbas  for  the  resumption  of  a  credible  peace  process; 
just  days  after  the  new  explosion  of  violence  between 
Israel  and  Gaza,  we  could  not  fail  to  lend  our  full 
support to the peace partners as those espousing armed 
struggle endeavoured to win the day.
The Palestinian move comes at a difficult moment, 
and  the  repercussions  could  be  serious.  But  France 
calls on all the parties to understand and acknowledge 
its  major  significance,  and  to  respond  by  resuming 
negotiations,  not  with  reprisals  that  help  no  one  but 
extremists.  France  also  calls  on  the  international 
community — Americans, Europeans and Arabs — to 
mobilize in order to contribute to that end.
France also appeals to the Palestinians to build on 
this  political  success  in  order  to  contribute  to  future 
peace. That means, first, continuing to fight terrorism 
and to do everything possible to end the all-too-frequent 
attacks against Israel; to move forward, on the basis of 
the  Palestine  Liberation  Organization  commitments, 
towards inter-Palestinian reconciliation, without which 
the  two-State  solution  is  a  mere  mirage;  above  all,  to 
return to the negotiating table immediately and without 
preconditions;  and,  finally,  to  avoid  launching  a  cycle 
of sterile confrontations in international bodies. For the 
hardest part is before us and them. 
This  vision  of  two  States  for  two  peoples  must 
become  a  reality.  The  international  recognition  that 
the Assembly has today given the proposed Palestinian 
State  can  become  fact  only  through  an  agreement 
based  on  negotiations  between  the  two  parties  on  all 
final  status  issues,  within  the  framework  of  a  fair 
and  comprehensive  peace  settlement  that  responds 
to  Israel  and  Palestine’s  legitimate  aspirations.  That 
is  a  challenge  not  only  for  the  two  Governments  and 
peoples,  but  for  the  international  community  as  well. 
Mr. Chua (Singapore): My delegation supports the 
right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to  a  homeland.  That  is 
why  Singapore  supported  resolutions  66/17  and  66/18 
of  30  November  2011.  However,  we  abstained  in  the 
voting  on  today’s  resolution  67/19  because  we  believe 
that  only  a  negotiated  settlement  consistent  with 
Security Council resolution 242 (1967) can provide the 
basis  for  a  viable,  long-term  solution.  Both  sides  have 
legitimate  rights  and  shared  responsibilities,  and must 
be prepared to make compromises to achieve the larger 
good of a lasting peace.
It is precisely because the rights and responsibilities 
of  both  sides  are  inextricably  intertwined  that  no 
unilateral move can result in a just, peaceful and durable 
outcome. Palestine’s attempt to upgrade its status in the 
United Nations to that of a non-member observer State 
should be viewed in the context of its efforts last year to 
obtain full United Nations membership. Its aspirations 
are not helped, because the facts on the ground will not 
be changed.
Singapore  hopes  that  Israel  and  Palestine  will 
resume negotiations. Singapore will continue to support 
all international efforts to facilitate a negotiated solution 
that will be in the long-term interests of Palestine, Israel 
and the region as a whole.
Mr.  Schaper  (Netherlands),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
We join the international community in welcoming 
the cessation of attacks on Gaza and southern Israel. We 
deeply regret the loss of life and the damage caused on 
both the Palestinian and Israeli sides. We hope that both 
sides  will  uphold  the  latest  ceasefire  and  immediately 
address  any  humanitarian  issues  that  have  resulted 
from the violence.
Sir  Mark  Lyall  Grant  (United  Kingdom):  The 
United  Kingdom  is  gravely  concerned  about  the 
dangerous  impasse  in  the  peace  process  over  the 
past  two  years.  We  believe  that  the  window  onto  a 
two-State  solution  is  rapidly  closing.  Our  central 
objective is to achieve a return to credible negotiations 
in  order  to  secure  a  two-State  solution.  That  is  the 
guiding  principle  that  determined  how  we  voted  on 
resolution 67/19 today.
In  support  of 
that  objective,  we  sought  a 
commitment  from  the  Palestinian  leadership  to  return 
14 
12-61635
immediately  to  negotiations,  without  preconditions. 
That was the single most important factor shaping our 
vote. We also sought an assurance from the Palestinians 
that they would not pursue immediate action in United 
Nations agencies and the International Criminal Court, 
since  that  would  make  a  swift  return  to  negotiations 
impossible.  We  are  in  no  doubt  that  President  Abbas 
is  a  courageous  man  of  peace,  and  we  have  engaged 
intensively with the Palestinians ahead of today’s voting 
to try to secure those assurances. But in their absence, 
we were not able to vote in favour of the resolution, and 
we therefore abstained.
Our priority now is to restart negotiations. We urge 
all  parties,  including  Israel,  to  avoid  taking  steps  in 
response to today’s events that could damage the peace 
process. Palestine will be a non-member observer State 
in  the  United  Nations  from  this  date  onward,  but  that 
does not change the situation on the ground. The only 
way  to  give  the  Palestinian  people  the  State  that  they 
need  and  deserve,  and  to  give  the  Israeli  people  the 
security  and  peace  they  are  entitled  to,  is  through  a 
negotiated  two-State  solution.  We  look  to  the  United 
States, with the strong and active support of the United 
Kingdom and the international community, to do all it 
can in the coming weeks and months to take a decisive 
lead  in  restarting  negotiations,  and  we  look  to  the 
Israelis and Palestinians to be ready to enter into such 
talks.
Mr. Wittig (Germany): Germany firmly believes in 
two States, Israel and Palestine, for two peoples in the 
Middle  East. We  share  the  goal  of  a  Palestinian  State. 
Germany has worked towards that end for years, mainly 
through its support for the State-building efforts of the 
Palestinian Authority. Yet it must be clear to everybody 
that  a  Palestinian  State  can  be  achieved  only  through 
direct negotiations between Israelis and Palestinians.
We believe that there is reason to doubt whether the 
step taken today is helpful to the peace process at this 
point  in  time.  We  are  concerned  that  it  might  lead  to 
further hardening of positions instead of improving the 
chances of reaching a two-State solution through direct 
negotiations. 
It is our expectation that the Palestinian leadership 
will  not  take  unilateral  steps  on  the  basis  of  today’s 
resolution  67/19  that  could  deepen  the  conf lict  and 
move  us  further  away  from  a  peaceful  settlement.  We 
call  on  both  sides  to  engage  in  serious  negotiations, 
without conditions or further delay. Parties must refrain 
A/67/PV.44
from  any  action  that  undermines  the  prospects  of 
negotiations and the objective of a two-State solution.
Germany  explicitly  welcomes  the  fact  that  the 
resolution adopted today calls for a two-State solution, 
and  hence  fully  recognizes  the  right  of  Israel  to  exist 
in  peace.  I  repeat  that  Israel’s  legitimate  security 
concerns must be addressed in a credible manner or the 
peace process will remain stalled. Germany will do its 
utmost  to  support  all  efforts  aimed  at  paving  the  way 
for a genuine negotiating process. That can be achieved 
only  with  a  demonstration  of  the  necessary  political 
will  on  both  sides  and  the  active  commitment  of  the 
international  community,  including  the  Quartet  and 
regional actors.
Mr.  Seger 
(spoke 
(Switzerland) 
in  French): 
Switzerland’s decision to vote in favour of resolution 67/19, 
adopted today by the General Assembly, was motivated 
by  our  desire  to  resolve  the  current  stalemate  in 
Israeli-Palestinian  negotiations  and  to  relaunch  the 
peace  process.  We  believe  that  Palestine’s  elevation 
to  observer  State  status  within  the  United  Nations 
will  revive  the  concept  of  a  two-State  solution  in  the 
context  of  the  Israeli-Palestinian  peace  negotiations. 
In  that  respect,  we  endorse  the  peace  efforts  of  the 
international  community,  calling  for  a  solution  with 
two  States,  Israel  and  Palestine,  living  side  by  side  in 
peace and security.
The resolution recalls the importance of resolutions 
adopted  in  the  past,  notably,  resolution  181  (II)  of 
29  November  1947,  concerning  the  creation  of  an 
Arab  State  and  a  Jewish  State,  and  resolution  43/177, 
of  15  December  1988,  which  acknowledges 
the 
proclamation of the State of Palestine by the Palestine 
National  Council  on  the  Arab  nature  of  one  State  and 
the  Jewish  nature  of  the  other.  The  resolution  just 
adopted  refers  to  Jerusalem  as  the  capital  of  the  two 
States. In the light of these formulations, among others, 
we  see  the  resolution  as  an  appeal  for  the  resumption 
of direct negotiations and as the keystone supporting a 
two-State solution, the prospects of which are fading.
The elevation of Palestine to the status of a United 
Nations observer State endows Palestine not only with 
rights  but  also  with  obligations,  in  particular  that  of 
refraining from the threat or use of force as enshrined 
in the Charter of the United Nations. It also opens the 
door  to  several  international  conventions,  particularly 
those  on  the  protection  of  human  rights  and  the  fight 
against terrorism.
12-61635
15
A/67/PV.44
This  decision  does  not 
involve  a  bilateral 
recognition  of  a  Palestinian  State,  which  will  depend 
on future peace negotiations.
Mr. Grauls (Belgium) (spoke in French): Belgium 
fully associates itself with the statement to be made by 
the observer of the European Union in this debate, and 
wishes to make the following observations.
Today’s  vote  is  a  significant  step  towards  the 
creation  of  a  State  of  Palestine,  which  we  all  look 
forward to. But Belgium believes that true progress will 
be  made  when  the  Palestinians  will  be  able  to  benefit 
on the ground from the existence of a future State that 
has  the  necessary  institutions,  personnel  and  tools  to 
function  properly.  Belgium  fully  shares  the  goal  of 
resolution  67/19  just  adopted  —  a  two-State  solution, 
with Israel living side by side in peace and security with 
a future State of Palestine that is democratic, viable and 
sustainable.  The  two-State  solution  is  in  fact  the  only 
possible solution to the Israeli-Palestinian conf lict, and 
every effort must be engaged to that end. 
For  Belgium,  the  resolution  adopted  today  by  the 
General Assembly does not yet constitute a recognition 
of  a  State  in  the  full  sense.  The  establishment  of  a 
fully legal State must result from negotiations between 
Israelis  and  Palestinians.  In  our  view,  there  is  no 
alternative  to  negotiations,  however  difficult  they 
might  be.  Priority  must  therefore  be  given  to  a  rapid 
resumption  of  peace  talks.  In  this  context,  both  Israel 
and  the  Palestinian  Authority  must  abstain  from  any 
unilateral  act  that  could  undermine  the  credibility  of 
the peace process. 
With  its  European  partners,  Belgium  calls  on  all 
the  parties  and  all  the  stakeholders  involved  to  start 
work  immediately  on  resolving  the  conf lict.  We  are 
determined to cooperate actively with the United States 
on an initiative that would establish parameters for the 
negotiation  process  and  offer  enough  guarantees  and 
incentives  for  both  parties.  The  voting  today  was  a 
clear sign that the peace process must be accelerated. A 
rapid  and  unconditional  resumption  of  negotiations  is 
necessary. What must be done at all costs is to bring the 
Israeli and Palestinian negotiators together at the table. 
Mr.  Tafrov  (Bulgaria):  Bulgaria  subscribes  to  the 
declaration  on  the  Middle  East  peace  process  and  the 
statement to be made shortly on behalf of the European 
Union.  Allow  me  in  my  national  capacity  to  present  a 
brief explanation of our vote. 
in 
My  delegation  abstained 
the  voting  on 
resolution 67/19 after careful analysis. We do not expect 
the resolution to change the reality on the ground between 
Israel  and  Palestine,  or  to  speed  up  a  negotiated  two-
State  solution.  Our  understanding  is  that  the  adoption 
of the resolution giving Palestine non-member observer 
status in the United Nations should in no way prejudice 
the  process  of  direct  negotiations.  Therefore,  we  call 
for their immediate resumption without preconditions. 
These  talks,  based  on  the  Quartet  principles,  existing 
agreements  and 
relevant  Security  Council  and 
General  Assembly  resolutions,  continue  to  be  the 
only  sustainable  way  to  achieve  the  establishment  of 
a  sovereign,  democratic  and  viable  Palestinian  State, 
living in peace and security alongside Israel. 
the 
Bulgaria  consistently  supports 
legitimate 
aspirations of the Palestinian people pertaining to their 
right to self-determination. My country was among the 
first  to  recognize  the  State  of  Palestine  back  in  1988. 
Just as the Jewish people have a homeland in the State 
of  Israel,  the  Palestinian  people  have  the  right  to  an 
independent State of Palestine. 
On  the  bilateral  level,  Bulgaria  has  built  and 
continues  to  develop  close  and  friendly  relations  with 
both Palestine and Israel. Our main concern, however, 
is  the  possible  adverse  impact  of  the  resolution  on 
the  prospect  for  an  early  resumption  of  negotiations. 
In  view  of  the  critical  situation  in  the  region  and  the 
international context in which the resolution was moved 
forward,  we  have  serious  doubts  as  to  whether  it  will 
further advance the peace process. 
the 
fact 
We  have  continually  stressed 
that 
unilateral  actions  by  either  side  are  counterproductive 
and  threaten  the  ultimate  viability  of  the  two-State 
solution.  Bulgaria  calls  on  the  parties  to  refrain  from 
any  such  actions,  both  bilaterally  and  in  international 
settings, that could be detrimental to the peace process. 
We also appeal to them to work in good faith towards 
a  negotiated  settlement  and  to  abide  by  their  publicly 
undertaken commitments. 
The  critical  situation  in  Gaza  and  southern  Israel 
makes  the  immediate  renewal  of  the  peace  efforts 
more  pressing  and  urgent  than  ever.  Bulgaria  greatly 
appreciates  the  diplomatic  efforts  made  by  Egypt,  the 
United  States  and  the  Secretary-General,  which  have 
led to the current ceasefire and encouraged hopes for a 
resumption of the peace process.
16 
12-61635
Mr.  Starčević  (Serbia):  First  of  all,  I  want  to 
warmly congratulate Palestine on achieving the status 
of  non-member  observer  State  in  the  United  Nations. 
This  is  an  important  step  in  the  long  —  and  I  would 
say  far  too  long  —  journey  towards  the  realization  of 
the  legitimate  aspirations  of  the  Palestinian  people  to 
statehood. For the 132 Members of the United Nations 
that have so far recognized the State of Palestine, it is 
a  sign  that  their  support  for  the  Palestinian  cause  is 
bringing  results  and  strengthening  the  Palestinians’ 
right  to  their  self-determination  and  an  independent 
State.
Like  Yugoslavia  before  it,  Serbia  is  among  those 
132  Member  States.  Our  support  for  the  Palestinian 
struggle  for  self-determination  and 
independence 
has  never  wavered.  It  is  based  on  our  own  sense  of 
justice  and  on  the  solid  foundation  of  a  number  of 
Security  Council  and  General  Assembly  resolutions, 
reaching  all  the  way  back  to  the  beginnings  of  the 
United Nations — all of them reaffirming the right of 
Palestinians  to  an  independent  and  sovereign  State  of 
their own, based on the two-State solution.
Unlike  Yugoslavia  from  1967  to  1992,  Serbia  has 
had  diplomatic  relations  with  Israel  and  maintains 
good  and  friendly  cooperation  with  that  State.  We 
are  therefore  fully  conscious  of  Israel’s  legitimate 
security  concerns  and  have  an  interest  in  promoting 
such a solution, which would bring about statehood for 
Palestine  and  security  and  peace  for  both  Israel  and 
Palestine. Neither a nation whose people was a victim of 
the Holocaust nor a nation still in quest for its statehood 
deserves to live in the same precarious state lasting for 
more than 60 years. The people of both States are weary 
of conf lict; they should not be made to wait any longer 
for it to end. We must never accept the cynical view that 
the conf lict can not be resolved and that the world must 
simply live with it.
The Middle East peace process negotiations should 
be  urgently  resumed  and  accelerated  so  that  a  peace 
agreement  based  on  the  relevant  Security  Council 
resolutions,  the  Madrid  principles,  the  road  map 
and  the  Arab  Peace  Initiative  can  be  reached.  In  the 
meantime, let us hope and let us act in such a way that 
the  present  ceasefire  holds.  The  people  of  both  States 
have a vested interest in that, even if their hawks try to 
create a different impression.
Ms.  Flores  (Honduras)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  As  we 
voted today in favour of resolution 67/19 on the status 
of  Palestine  in  the  United  Nations,  the  Government 
A/67/PV.44
of  Honduras  could  not  help  but  recall  the  motives 
that  led  our  peoples  to  establish  this  extraordinary 
Organization  —  to  save  succeeding  generations  from 
the scourge of war and reaffirm our faith in fundamental 
human  rights,  in  the  dignity  and  worth  of  the  human 
person,  and  in  the  equal  rights  of  nations  large  and 
small.  The  ultimate  lodestar  of  the  United  Nations  is 
that, to achieve peace, we must practice tolerance and 
live together as good neighbours.
Honduras  firmly  supports  a  solution  between  the 
two States, Israel and Palestine. The Honduran people 
deeply share the inalienable desire of the peoples of the 
Middle  East  for  peace.  Our  decision  to  vote  in  favour 
of  granting  Palestine  non-member  observer  status  in 
the  United  Nations  was  based  on  our  fervent  wish  to 
contribute  to  a  just,  comprehensive  and  lasting  peace 
that  we  believe  should  be  based  on  the  right  to  self-
determination  of  both  the  Jewish  and  Palestinian 
people,  the  need  for  mutual  recognition  between  the 
States  of  Israel  and  Palestine,  the  rights  of  Israel  and 
Palestine  to  their  own  territory  and  to  live  in  peace 
within  stable  and  safe  borders,  and  the  need  for  a 
comprehensive,  directly  negotiated  solution  to  all  the 
remaining differences between both parties.
Honduras  understands  that  today’s  voting  neither 
attempts  to  make  decisions  nor  claims  that  the 
international  community  should  multilaterally  make 
decisions  that  rightfully  belong  only  to  Israel  and 
Palestine. On the basis of our own national experience, 
we know that peace cannot be imposed from outside, but 
can arise only from the people themselves. Recognition 
of  Palestine  and  Israel  by  third  parties  cannot  achieve 
peace  between  those  two  nations.  To  achieve  a  two-
State solution and to benefit both peoples, there must be 
direct  negotiations  and  understandings  between  them. 
Still,  our  recognition  of  both  States  aims  to  send  an 
unambiguous signal of respect from Honduras to both 
peoples,  whom  we  would  fervently  like  to  see  coexist 
in peace. We know well that in the end what will seal a 
definitive peace between those nations is their mutual 
recognition of the right to self-determination and their 
right to exist as States, rather than any resolution of the 
international community.
In  voting  for  the  resolution,  Honduras  takes  no 
position  on  the  territorial  and  border  claims  of  the 
parties, since we also know from the lessons of our own 
experience  that  such  matters  should  not  be  a  matter 
for  political  pronouncement  by  third  parties.  Such 
intervention  not  only  exceeds  our  authority  as  third 
12-61635
17
A/67/PV.44
parties  and  our  legitimate  interest,  but  makes  it  more 
difficult  to  resolve  disputes  and  hardens  positions. 
It  is  a  very  different  matter  when  an  impartial  third 
party  —  acting  on  their  behalf  within  the  framework 
of  good  offices  or  through  a  process  of  mediation, 
arbitration  or  judicial  procedure  —  is  charged  by 
the  parties  with  finding  a  peaceful  solution  to  their 
differences.
The same applies to the separate but delicate issues 
that remain open to negotiation or understanding. The 
solution  to  those  matters  lies  in  direct  negotiation 
between  the  parties.  It  is  therefore  vital  for  Israel  and 
Palestine to return to the negotiating table and to focus 
on  finding  formulas  to  address  the  concerns  between 
them, including security. The international community 
should  support  those  efforts  and  remain  ready  to 
facilitate  and  support  them  in  every  constructive  way 
possible.
Today’s  vote  recognizing  Palestine’s  non-member 
observer  status  in  the  United  Nations  should  be 
construed  not  as  representing  a  victory  for  one  side 
or  defeat  for  the  other,  but  rather  as  the  expression  of 
the ardent desire of the United Nations for concord and 
progress  to  reign  in  the  Middle  East.  Honduras  calls 
for  moderation  and  for  the  rights  and  privileges  that 
Palestine was granted as a non-member observer State 
in the United Nations to be used to open new avenues of 
direct understanding and to draw closer to the ultimate 
goal  of  the  resolution,  which  is  peaceful  coexistence 
and solidarity among peoples and nations.
Mr.  Staur  (Denmark):  On  this  very  day  65  years 
ago in this Assembly (see A/PV.128), Denmark voted in 
favour of the establishment of two States in the former 
mandate  of  Palestine.  Today,  by  voting  in  favour  of 
resolution  67/19,  we  reaffirmed  our  commitment  to 
a  two-State  solution,  with  the  State  of  Israel  and  an 
independent, democratic, contiguous and viable State of 
Palestine living side by side in peace and security — a 
commitment  we  share  with  the  rest  of  the  European 
Union.
to  self-defence 
Denmark  has  consistently  stood  by  Israel  and 
its 
inherent  right 
in  accordance 
with  international  law.  We  have  also  supported  the 
Palestinian  right  to  statehood  and  the  building  of  the 
Palestinian  Authority.  That  achievement  deserves  our 
full acknowledgment, and we will continue to building 
the  institutions  of  a  sovereign  State  of  Palestine.  In 
that  regard,  Denmark  calls  on  all  Palestinians  to 
support  President  Abbas  in  his  efforts  to  promote 
inter-Palestinian reconciliation as an important element 
for the unity of a future Palestinian State.
While we welcome last week’s ceasefire agreement, 
the sudden escalation of conﬂ ict in Gaza highlighted the 
urgent need to move forward a comprehensive solution 
to  the  conf lict.  We  strongly  appeal  to  both  sides  to 
build on today’s decision and to resume direct, bilateral 
negotiations immediately and without conditions on all 
final status issues, respecting previous agreements and 
understandings. Only a political solution to the conf lict 
can bring about lasting security. At the same time, we 
also  appeal  to  the  parties  to  refrain  from  taking  any 
steps  that  could  negatively  affect  the  situation  and 
efforts towards a negotiated solution. The time to heed 
the  call  made  in  resolution  181  (II),  adopted  65  years 
ago, for creating two States, is long overdue.
The  resolution  adopted,  henceforth  according 
Palestine  the  status  of  a  non-member  observer  State 
in  the  General  Assembly,  is  a  natural  continuation 
of  our  firm  support  for  a  two-State  solution  and  for 
Palestinian  State-building.  Our  vote,  however,  does 
not  imply  formal  bilateral  recognition  of  a  sovereign 
Palestinian State. That is a separate question that we will 
continue to consider within a framework established by 
international law.
Mr.  Ragaglini  (Italy):  In  accordance  with  the 
long-standing  position  of  the  European  Union,  Italy 
is  strongly  committed  to  a  comprehensive  negotiated 
peace between Israelis and Palestinians, as being in the 
fundamental  interests  of  the  European  Union  as  well 
as  of  the  parties  in  the  region.  Our  strong  support  for 
Palestinian  State-building  efforts  and  our  excellent 
bilateral  relations  with  both  parties  are  grounded  in 
the  firm  conviction  that  a  comprehensive  peace  must 
and can be achieved on the basis of a two-State solution 
with  the  State  of  Israel  and  a  sovereign,  democratic, 
contiguous  and  viable  State  of  Palestine,  both  living 
within agreed borders and enjoying peace and security. 
Italy  stands  by  its  conviction  that  such  an  agreement 
can  be  reached  only  through  bilateral  negotiations, 
and strongly supports the European Union’s call on all 
parties to pursue actions conducive to an environment 
with  the  confidence  necessary  to  ensure  meaningful 
negotiations, and to refrain from actions that undermine 
the credibility of the process.
Italy decided to vote in favour of resolution 67/19. 
We  took  that  decision  in  the  light  of  the  information 
we received from President Abbas on the constructive 
approach  he  intends  to  take  after  this  vote.  I  refer  in 
18 
12-61635
particular to his readiness to resume direct negotiations 
without  preconditions  and  to  refrain  from  seeking 
membership in other specialized agencies in the current 
circumstances,  or  pursuing  the  possibility  of  the 
jurisdiction  of  the  International  Criminal  Court.  With 
regard to the latter, Italy would not accept instrumental 
actions intended to question Israel’s inalienable right to 
defend itself or to have recourse to measures necessary 
to  protect  the  lives  of  its  citizens.  We  also  wish  to 
underline  our  firm  conviction  that  the  new  status 
of  the  Palestinian  Authority  should  not,  under  any 
circumstances,  be  applied  retroactively.  Italy  stresses 
that  today’s  vote  in  no  way  prejudges  its  commitment 
to a comprehensive negotiated peace settlement, which 
remains the only possible path to Palestinian Statehood 
and full United Nations membership.
I  would  like  to  conclude  by  restating  Italy’s 
unwavering support for a negotiated two-State solution, 
based  on  the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions, 
the  Madrid  principles,  the  road  map,  the  agreements 
previously  reached  by  the  parties  and  the  Arab  Peace 
Initiative.
Mr. Mitsialis (Greece): Greece’s vote in favour of 
resolution 67/19, on upgrading Palestine’s status to that 
of  a  non-member  observer  State,  was  guided  by  our 
long-standing position of principle that the resolution of 
the Middle East question should be based on two States, 
an independent and viable Palestinian State coexisting 
in peace and security with the State of Israel. It is our 
firm  belief  that  that  is  the  only  solution  assuring  the 
long-term interests of the two peoples, as well as peace 
and stability in the region, and it is therefore the duty of 
the international community to safeguard it.
Paragraph 5 of the resolution contains an important 
provision.  Greece  believes  that  the  inalienable  and 
non-negotiable  right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to 
statehood  can  be  fulfilled  through  a  results-oriented 
peace process and direct negotiations between the two 
parties  on  all  final  status  issues.  A  comprehensive 
settlement, by definition, includes the safeguarding of 
the  inherent  right  of  the  State  of  Israel  to  peace  and 
security. By voting in favour of this resolution, Greece 
believes  that  it  contributes  towards  a  resumption  of 
the  peace  process  without  preconditions,  and  to  the 
promotion  of  a  two-State  solution.  In  that  regard,  we 
urge  the  Palestinian  side  to  refrain  from  unilateral 
steps,  and  the  Israeli  side  to  refrain  from  actions  on 
the  ground  that  could  jeopardize  the  viability  of  such 
a solution.
A/67/PV.44
Mr.  Körösi  (Hungary):  Hungary  abstained  in 
the  voting  on  resolution  67/19  based  on  the  following 
considerations. 
Hungary’s  position  on  the  Middle  East  peace 
process,  the  status  of  Palestine  and  the  decision  made 
today are based on the fundamental interest of Hungary 
and  the  European  Union  in  peace  and  stability  in  the 
region.  When  we  evaluate  any  initiatives,  including 
today’s resolution, we pay attention to all the important 
factors,  including  their  possible  implications  for  the 
prospects  for  a  resumption  of  the  Middle  East  peace 
process.  In  that  context,  we  are  very  concerned  about 
the  possible  negative  consequences  that  could  result 
from  the  adoption  of  today’s  resolution.  Our  position 
on the statehood of Palestine remains valid and leaves 
no room for a negative consideration of the resolution. 
It is our firm belief that a settlement of the Middle East 
conf lict must be based on the two-State solution. With 
that aim, we support the establishment of a sovereign, 
viable and contiguous State of Palestine living side by 
side in peace and security with Israel, to be implemented 
through direct negotiations. In line with the statement 
made earlier today on behalf of the European Union by 
High Representative Catherine Ashton, we support all 
efforts  to  bring  about  substantive,  direct  negotiations 
between the parties in the coming months.
Mr. Sajdik (Austria): Austria would like to express 
its  full  support  for  the  positions  expressed  in  the 
statement  of  the  High  Representative  of  the  European 
Union  for  Foreign  Affairs  and  Security  Policy, 
Catherine  Ashton,  earlier  today,  and  for  the  statement 
by the observer of the European Union to be delivered 
later.
Austria’s  vote  in  favour  of  resolution  67/19  is 
a  vote  in  support  of  a  two-State  solution.  It  is  a  vote 
of  confidence  in  the  serious  efforts  of  the  Palestinian 
Authority,  under  the  leadership  of  President  Abbas, 
to  build  efficient  State  institutions.  It  is  a  call  to  that 
leadership to fulfil its commitment to returning to the 
negotiating table with Israel without further conditions, 
and  a  call  to  both  parties  to  re-enter  into  negotiations 
in  good  faith.  Equally,  it  is  a  call  to  the  Palestinian 
people  and  their  political  factions  to  unite  behind 
their  leadership’s  efforts  to  seek  a  durable  negotiated 
solution, as stipulated in the resolution.
Mrs.  Hrdá  (Czech  Republic):  I  would  like  to 
reiterate the Czech Republic’s support for negotiations 
leading  to  Palestine’s  statehood  and  all  constructive 
steps  to  that  end.  In  that  regard,  we  continue  to 
12-61635
19
A/67/PV.44
encourage  both  sides  to  return  to  direct  talks  leading 
to  a  negotiated  two-State  solution  without  delays  or 
preconditions. On several occasions the Czech Republic 
has called on all the parties concerned to avoid any step 
that  might  interfere  with  or  prejudice  the  outcome  of 
that  process.  That  is  why  the  Czech  Republic  voted 
against resolution 67/19.
The  Czech  Republic  fully  supports  Palestine’s 
aspirations  to  statehood  through  a  comprehensive 
negotiated  agreement  between  the  two  parties  that 
results in two States, namely, the State of Israel and the 
State of Palestine, living side by side in peace, security 
and mutual recognition.
Mr.  Viinanen  (Finland):  Finland  voted  in  favour 
of  resolution  67/19  with  the  aim  of  strengthening 
prospects  for  a  Palestinian  State  and  showing  support 
for the moderate forces that are committed to pursuing 
that objective through negotiations. We are committed 
to a two-State solution, with the State of Israel and an 
independent,  democratic,  contiguous  and  viable  State 
of Palestine living side by side in peace and security.
We  have  witnessed  how  the  Palestinian  Authority 
now  has  institutions  that  pass  the  threshold  of  what 
one can expect from a modern State. That achievement 
deserves  our  full  recognition.  Finland  will  continue 
to  contribute  to  building  the  future  institutions  of  a 
sovereign  State  of  Palestine.  We  appeal  to  all  sides 
to  build  on  this  decision,  to  engage  in  negotiations 
immediately  and  without  conditions,  and  to  refrain 
from  taking  any  steps  that  could  negatively  affect  the 
situation and the efforts towards a negotiated solution.
Our  vote  today  in  favour  of  the  resolution,  which 
accords  Palestine  non-member  observer  State  status 
in the United Nations, is a natural continuation of our 
firm  support  for  a  two-State  solution  and  Palestinian 
state-building. However, Finland’s vote does not imply 
formal  recognition  of  a  sovereign  Palestinian  State. 
That is a separate question and we will determine our 
national position on the matter in accordance with the 
procedures set out in the Constitution of Finland.
Mr.  Quinlan  (Australia):  Australia’s  decision  to 
abstain  in  the  voting  on  resolution  67/19  balances  our 
long-standing  support  of  the  right  of  the  Palestinian 
people  to  self-determination  and  their  own  State  with 
our concern that the only durable basis for the resolution 
of  this  conf lict  is  direct  negotiations  between  Israel 
and  the  Palestinians.  The  resolution  does  not  confer 
statehood;  it  grants  non-member  observer  State  status 
to the Palestinian Authority in the United Nations. We 
have long supported a negotiated two-State solution that 
allows a secure Israel to live alongside an independent 
future  Palestinian  State.  Australia  has  concerns  that 
this resolution may actually make it harder rather than 
easier for the two parties to return to direct negotiations. 
But our support for a future Palestinian State achieved 
through  negotiations  remains  steadfast,  as  does  our 
support for Israel’s legitimacy and right to security.
In  looking  beyond  today’s  vote,  we  urge  all  sides 
to  return  immediately  to  negotiations  in  good  faith. 
It  is  critical  that  no  party  seek  to  exploit  or  overreact 
to  the  outcome  of  today’s  vote,  including  within  the 
United  Nations  system,  in  ways  that  could  undermine 
prospects for a just and lasting settlement.
Mr. McLay (New Zealand): New Zealand’s vote in 
favour  of  resolution  67/19  is  consistent  with  our  long-
held policy on the Palestinian issue and our support for 
a  two-State  solution.  The  resolution  supports  existing 
internationally  agreed-on  parameters  for  resolving 
the  Israel-Palestine  issue.  Our  vote  supports  Israel’s 
absolute right to exist, with a vibrant society living in 
freedom  and  prosperity,  free  from  fear  of  attack,  not 
least from Hamas rockets, with that Israeli State living 
side  by  side  with  an  independent,  contiguous,  viable 
Palestinian State with recognized borders. All that, we 
know, can be achieved only through a negotiated two-
State solution.
The  events  of  the  past  month  have  demonstrated 
President  Abbas’s  capacity  as  a  partner  for  peace.  We 
underscore our support for him and for Prime Minister 
Fayyad  and  others  who  are  working  to  make  a  two-
State  solution  viable.  We  hope  that  with  this  decision 
both  sides  can  now  do  whatever  is  required  to  return 
to  the  negotiating  table,  and  that  nothing  is  said  or 
done to impede that return. We also hope that reactions 
to  this  vote  do  not  jeopardize  progress  in  Palestinian 
state-building  efforts.  The  President  of  the  General 
Assembly was indeed right to speak of all of us being 
judged by how we bear ourselves after this vote.
Whatever the significance of today’s vote, we must 
now  turn  to  what  happens  tomorrow.  This  resolution 
is  a  political  symbol  of  the  commitment  of  the  United 
Nations to a two-State solution. New Zealand has cast 
its  vote  accordingly  based  on  the  assumption  that  our 
vote  is  without  prejudice  to  New  Zealand’s  position 
on  its  recognition  of  Palestine.  But  resolutions  and 
debates here in New York will not bring about a secure 
Israel  living  peacefully  alongside  a  viable,  contiguous 
20 
12-61635
A/67/PV.44
Palestinian  State.  Indeed,  it  is  regrettable  that  today’s 
decision  had  to  be  achieved  by  a  vote  at  the  United 
Nations  and  not  by  direct  negotiations.  But  that  is  the 
reality  of  the  situation  on  the  ground,  to  which  many 
others have referred.
Today, we must therefore mark the beginning of a 
new dynamic, with the parties immediately and without 
any preconditions returning to negotiations, before the 
opportunity of a two-State solution is lost to us all.
Mr.  Pedersen  (Norway):  Norway  is  a  strong 
supporter  of  Palestinian  rights  and  aspirations  to 
statehood  in  accordance  with  international  law.  We 
are  committed  to  continuing  to  empower  Palestinian 
institutions.  The  Palestinian  Authority  has  already 
passed  the  threshold  of  a  functioning  State  in  key 
sectors.  That  was  endorsed  by  the  Ad  Hoc  Liaison 
Committee, chaired by Norway, both in 2011 and 2012. 
We support Palestine’s upgraded status in the General 
Assembly to that of a non-member observer State. That 
is  consistent  with  our  long-standing  position  on  the 
resolution  of  the  Israeli-Palestinian  conf lict  based  on 
the two-State solution. We supported the Partition Plan 
in  the  General  Assembly  in  1947,  Israel’s  admission 
as  a  full  State  Member  of  the  United  Nations  in  1949, 
including the declarations made in that context, and we 
recognized it as a State in the same year.
Resolution 67/19 is based on the two-State solution 
and  the  principles  therein,  and  does  not  prejudge  the 
outcomes  of  final  status  negotiations  between  the 
parties.  Neither  does  it  violate  the  Oslo  Accords. 
The  Palestinians  have  a  legitimate  right  to  take  this 
step,  based  on  the  right  of  the  Palestinian  people  to 
self-determination.  Furthermore,  it  is  time  for  the 
General  Assembly  to  recognize  the  serious  efforts  the 
Palestinian Authority has made to build effective State 
institutions.
Upgrading Palestine’s status in the United Nations 
is  not  a  provocative  step.  It  sends  a  message  that  the 
Palestine  Liberation  Organization  and  President 
Abbas are genuinely committed to a peaceful solution 
based  on  diplomatic  means.  But  with  rights  come 
responsibilities.  It  is  time  for  the  Palestinians  to  unite 
in  building  a  society  based  on  democracy,  the  rule  of 
law and human rights. The fact that this resolution has 
broad backing on the Palestinian side is a positive step. 
Norway is strongly committed to the two-State solution 
with  a  sovereign,  democratic,  contiguous  and  viable 
Palestinian  State  living  side  by  side  with  the  State 
of  Israel  in  peace  and  within  secure  and  recognized 
borders. Only a negotiated solution between the parties 
can  bring  about  lasting  peace  and  security  for  both 
Palestinians  and  Israelis.  We  appeal  to  both  sides  to 
build  on  today’s  decision  in  a  constructive  manner 
and  urgently  resume  comprehensive  final  status 
negotiations. 
Our  support  of  an  upgraded  status  for  Palestine 
in  the  United  Nations  does  not  prejudge  the  question 
of  recognition.  The  national  procedures  to  formally 
recognize the State of Palestine are still pending.
The meeting rose at 6 p.m.
12-61635
21
