United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
22nd plenary meeting
Tuesday, 9 October 2012, 10 a.m.
New York
A/67/PV.22
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(Serbia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.10 a.m. 
Agenda item 106 (continued)
Report of the Secretary-General on the work of 
the Organization (A/67/1)
The  President:  Members  will  recall  that  the 
Secretary-General presented his annual report (A/67/1) 
to the General Assembly at its 6th plenary meeting, on 
25 September.
Mr.  Sea  (Cambodia):  I  have  the  honour  to  speak 
on  behalf  of  the  States  members  of  the  Association  of 
Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN): Brunei Darussalam, 
Indonesia,  the  Lao  People’s  Democratic  Republic, 
Malaysia,  Myanmar, 
the  Philippines,  Singapore, 
Thailand, Viet Nam and my own country, Cambodia.
As global events over the course of the past decade 
have vividly demonstrated, the world we live in today 
is  fundamentally  different  from  the  world  that  existed 
at  the  time  of  the  founding  of  the  United  Nations 
67 years ago. In the complex web of interdependence in 
our world today, a local crisis can — with what was once 
unthinkable  speed  —  affect  the  hopes  and  aspirations 
of  entire  societies  halfway  around  the  globe.  Such 
challenges,  while  daunting,  present  new  opportunities 
to strengthen international dialogue and cooperation. 
coordination  and  cooperation  on  key  global  issues  of 
common interest and concern. 
issues  of 
In  that  spirit,  ASEAN  wishes  to  share  with  the 
General  Assembly  certain 
importance. 
First,  ASEAN  attaches  great  importance  to  sustained 
economic growth. In the context of declining economic 
prospects  and  mounting  global  challenges,  collective 
action  at  the  regional  and  global  levels  is  needed  in 
order to produce an effective response. While ASEAN 
continues its efforts to establish an ASEAN economic 
community  by  2015,  economic  integration  with  all 
its  partners  has  been  strengthened.  Moreover,  in  an 
effort  to  stabilize  the  financial  sector,  ASEAN  has 
worked  closely  with  China,  Japan  and  the  Republic 
of  Korea  to  strengthen  a  regional  financial  safeguard 
mechanism — the Chiang Mai Initiative (CMI) — with 
a  recent  doubling  of  CMI  funds  from  $120  billion  to 
$240 billion as a firewall against a liquidity crisis.
In  the  global  context,  ASEAN  contributes  to 
the  Group  of  20  (G-20)  annually.  At  this  year’s  G-20 
Summit  in  Los  Cabos,  Mexico,  Cambodia,  acting  as 
ASEAN’s representative, reiterated the need to sustain 
economic  stability  and  structural  reform  for  growth 
and  employment,  and  the  urgency  to  improve  and 
strengthen  international  financial  architecture  in  an 
interconnected global economy.
integration  via 
ASEAN  is  currently  redoubling  its  efforts  in 
regional 
the  establishment  of  an 
ASEAN community by 2015. Underlining those efforts 
is a firm commitment to the work and principles of the 
United  Nations.  As  such,  ASEAN  seeks  to  strengthen 
Secondly,  meeting  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  is  one  of  the  pillars  of  sustainable 
development.  As  the  deadline  nears,  greater  progress 
in  achieving  the  MDGs  is  of  paramount  importance. 
As enshrined in the ASEAN Charter, reducing poverty 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-53869 (E)
*1253869*
A/67/PV.22
and  narrowing  the  development  gap  within  ASEAN 
through mutual assistance and cooperation is a primary 
mandate  of  ASEAN.  As  such,  ASEAN  is  in  absolute 
concurrence  with  the  report  of  the  Secretary-General 
on  the  work  of  the  Organization  (A/67/1),  in  that  we 
must  not  lose  our  momentum  on  reaching  the  MDGs 
by 2015.
To  that  end,  ASEAN  has  been  advancing  its 
own  efforts,  as  contained  in  its  vision  of  an  ASEAN 
sociocultural  community.  With  the  aim  of  facilitating 
closer  intra-  and  intersectoral  collaboration,  ASEAN 
adopted a road map in August 2011 for the attainment 
of the MDGs. Since then, remarkable progress has been 
made  by  ASEAN  member  States,  with  some  reaching 
their  targeted  goals.  However,  significant  challenges 
remain, particularly in narrowing the development gap 
within the region.
response 
We agree with the Secretary-General that disaster 
risk  reduction  is  essential  to  sustainable  development. 
Given  the  fact  that  Southeast  Asia  is  prone  to  natural 
disasters,  disaster  management  is  one  of  our  top 
priorities. We reiterate the importance of strengthening 
towards  disasters 
ASEAN’s  collective 
by  strengthening 
response 
mechanism,  namely, 
its  Agreement  on  Disaster 
Management and Emergency Response, and enhancing 
the role of ASEAN’s Secretary General as Coordinator. 
Cooperation  between  ASEAN  and  the  United  Nations 
is also strengthened through the ASEAN Coordinating 
Centre  for  Humanitarian  Assistance  on  disaster 
management.
the  ASEAN  disaster 
ASEAN welcomes efforts to define new paradigms 
for  sustainable  development  and 
fully  endorses 
the  outcome  of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable  Development  and  the  policy  guidelines 
outlined in the outcome document, entitled “The future 
we want” (resolution 66/288, annex).
Thirdly,  in  order  to  preserve  our  planet  for  the 
next  generation,  immediate  and  concerted  action  to 
address the critical problem of climate change is vital. 
Small States in the Asia-Pacific and Caribbean regions 
remain threatened by rising sea levels, and developing 
nations  dependent  on  agriculture  face  threats  to  their 
livelihoods  as  a  result  of  the  externalities  of  climate 
change. 
In that context, it is regrettable that the international 
community  remains  divided  on  the  most  appropriate 
response. We call on the developed countries to reduce 
their greenhouse-gas emissions in accordance with the 
United Nations principle of common but differentiated 
responsibilities.  It  is  disappointing  that  many  of  the 
promises made by nations since Copenhagen 2009 have 
not been fulfilled in a timely manner. 
Fourthly,  ASEAN’s  commitment  to  regional  and 
global  peace  remains  high  on  our  agenda.  This  year 
marked  the  forty-fifth  anniversary  of  the  founding  of 
ASEAN.  Within  a  single  generation  since  its  initial 
founding, the region has enjoyed sustained and durable 
peace  and  stability,  which  have  been  consolidated  via 
initiatives such as the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation 
in Southeast Asia and the establishment of the ASEAN 
Regional Forum.
ASEAN 
firmly  believes 
that  peacekeeping 
remains  the  pre-eminent  instrument  for  maintaining 
international peace and security. We would also like to 
reiterate,  however,  that  peacekeeping  operations  must 
respect the principles of sovereignty, territorial integrity 
and  non-interference  in  internal  affairs.  We  are  of  the 
view  that  the  cooperation  between  ASEAN  and  the 
United Nations in the area of peacekeeping is of great 
importance.  At  present,  around  5,000  police,  military 
experts  and  troops  from  ASEAN  member  States  have 
actively  participated  in  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations, including in demining activities.
Fifthly,  ASEAN  continues  to  strongly  support 
international  disarmament  efforts,  including  efforts 
toward  achieving  the  goal  of  a  nuclear-weapon-free 
world. We believe that nuclear-weapon-free zones play 
an  important  part  in  maintaining  peace  and  security 
in  our  region.  ASEAN  has  worked  hard  to  facilitate 
the signing of the protocol to the Treaty on the South-
East  Asia  Nuclear  Weapon  Free  Zone  and  its  related 
documents  by  the  five  nuclear-weapon  States  as  early 
as possible.
Finally,  ASEAN  attaches  great  importance  to  the 
promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights.  Currently, 
ASEAN  is  in  the  process  of  finalizing  the  ASEAN 
human  rights  declaration  for  adoption  at  the  twenty-
first ASEAN Summit in November 2012, with the aim 
of establishing a regional framework for cooperation to 
fully realize human rights in the region.
While  we  move  forward  to  consolidate  regional 
integration  and  attain  the  MDGs  by  2015,  we  remain 
firmly  committed  to  working  in  tandem  with  the 
United Nations, and we support all efforts to reinforce 
and enhance ties between our respective organizations. 
2 
12-53869
ASEAN  warmly  welcomes  the  strengthening  of  the 
relations  between  the  two  organizations  since  the 
adoption  of  the  Joint  Declaration  on  Comprehensive 
Partnership  between  ASEAN  and  the  United  Nations 
in November 2011. In that context, ASEAN will submit 
to  the  General  Assembly  at  the  end  of  October  the 
draft  of  a  resolution  on  cooperation  between  ASEAN 
and  United  Nations,  which  ref lects  the  improved 
relationship  between  the  two  organizations.  ASEAN 
hopes  that  the  draft  resolution  will  receive  strong 
support and co-sponsorship from all Member States as 
in the past.
Mr.  Kodama  (Japan):  First  of  all,  I  would  like  to 
begin  by  congratulating  you,  Sir,  on  your  assumption 
of  your  duties  as  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  sixty-seventh  session.  Japan  looks  forward  to 
your  leadership  during  the  current  session  as  we  deal 
with  the  global  challenges  that  the  General  Assembly 
is mandated to discuss, as outlined in the Charter. We 
reaffirm our commitment to contributing to that work. 
I  also  would  like  to  convey  to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon  Japan’s  deep  appreciation  for  his  efforts  in 
guiding the diverse activities of the United Nations and 
for  his  latest  report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization 
(A/67/1).
The  spirit  of  the  United  Nations  Charter  and  the 
shared  principles  of  the  international  community  call 
upon  us  to  settle  international  disputes  in  a  peaceful 
manner based on international law. Japan is committed 
to  those  principles  and  is  determined  to  protect 
peace,  ensure  the  safety  of  its  people  and  protect  its 
sovereignty and territorial integrity in accordance with 
international  law.  Japan  reiterates  its  firm  belief  that 
any attempt to realize a certain ideology or claim by the 
unilateral use or threat of force is inconsistent with the 
United Nations Charter. In that connection, Japan will 
continue to work with the United Nations to strengthen 
the  rule  of  law,  including  through  efforts  to  facilitate 
the  use  of  international  courts  and  tribunals  and  by 
extending  assistance  to  developing  countries  for  the 
improvement of their legal systems and the development 
of their human resources.
Furthermore,  it  is  our  strong  belief  that  the  idea 
of  the  rule  of  law  has  a  strong  connection  with  the 
enhancement  of  human  rights,  which  is  one  of  three 
pillars  of  the  United  Nations.  Japan  will  continue  to 
actively  contribute  to  efforts  to  strengthen  our  role 
in  the  promotion  of  human  rights.  Japan  will  again 
submit,  with  the  European  Union,  a  draft  resolution 
A/67/PV.22
on  the  situation  of  human  rights  in  the  Democratic 
People’s  Republic  of  Korea  in  order  to  address  the 
grave  concerns  of  the  international  community  there, 
including on the abductions issue.
Regarding  the  maintenance  of  international  peace 
and  security,  which  is  one  of  the  primary  tasks  of 
the  United  Nations,  progress  was  made  through  the 
concerted efforts of the international community during 
the  sixty-sixth  session,  in  particular  when  looking  at 
the situations concerning the Sudan and South Sudan, 
and in Somalia and Yemen. In that regard, Japan is fully 
committed to contributing to United Nations efforts by 
participating  in  peacekeeping  operation  missions  and 
extending  assistance  of  various  kinds  to  the  affected 
areas.  Japan  is  currently  sending  an  engineering  unit 
with approximately 330 personnel to the United Nations 
Mission in South Sudan and is operating a Self-Defence 
Force  facility  in  the  Republic  of  Djibouti,  which  is 
actively  engaged  in  counter-piracy  operations  in  the 
Gulf of Aden and off the coast of Somalia.
Japan welcomes the work undertaken by the United 
Nations  in  the  field  of  peacebuilding  through  the 
Peacebuilding Commission and the Peacebuilding Fund 
(PBF). Japan allocated an additional $12.5 million to the 
PBF last November. We believe that stronger emphasis 
must be placed on the linkages between peacekeeping 
and development operations. Japan remains committed 
to  ensuring  that  peacebuilding  dividends  are  felt  on 
the  ground  through  the  work  of  the  United  Nations 
peacebuilding  architecture.  In  addition,  we  welcome 
the  initiative  by  the  Secretary-General  to  strengthen 
civilian  capacities  in  post-conf lict  States,  including 
through the launching of CapMatch, the online United 
Nations civilian capacities exchange, last month. Japan 
takes interest in that initiative and its trial.
The  adoption  of  resolution  66/290  on  human 
security  by  the  General  Assembly  last  month  was  a 
significant  step  towards  addressing  widespread  and 
cross-cutting challenges to the survival, livelihood and 
dignity of people. Recognizing that the three pillars of 
the United Nations — peace and security, development 
and  human  rights  —  are  interlinked  and  mutually 
reinforcing,  Japan  will  continue  to  further  promote 
human  security  and  seek  specific  ways  to  implement 
that principle on the ground. 
To that end, the Government of Japan has announced 
a  contribution  of  $10  million  to  the  United  Nations 
Trust  Fund  for  Human  Security.  In  addition,  on  the 
occasion of the ﬁ fth Tokyo International Conference on 
12-53869
3
A/67/PV.22
African Development, to be held in Yokohama, Japan, 
in  June  next  year,  the  Government  of  Japan  will  seek 
to discuss various measures that could be adopted and 
implemented  by  participating  African  States  for  their 
people and communities, with a view to strengthening 
human security.
Human  security  also  applies  when  coping  with 
natural  disaster.  In  order  to  share  the  lessons  learned 
from  the  great  East  Japan  earthquake  of  March  2011 
and  to  formulate  a  framework  for  the  sake  of  future 
generations,  Japan  reiterates  its  intention  to  host  the 
third World Conference on Disaster Reduction in 2015 
and  would  like  to  substantiate  our  preparation  for  the 
Conference with the support of the General Assembly.
From the perspective of human rights, strengthening 
capacity-building  and  the  empowerment  of  individuals 
and communities, especially women and young people, 
is  also  crucial  in  the  context  of  human  security. 
Bearing  that  in  mind,  Japan  will  also  continue  in 
various forums, including UN-Women and the Security 
Council,  to  address  the  challenges  facing  women  in 
order to achieve gender equality and the empowerment 
of women. Furthermore, in the light of resolution 66/67 
on  volunteerism,  which  was  adopted  in  2011,  Brazil 
and  Japan  have  jointly  submitted  draft  resolution 
A/C.3/67/L.8  on  mainstreaming  and  promoting 
volunteerism for the next decade.
The transitions in the Middle East and North Africa 
have  again  highlighted  the  importance  of  democracy 
and  the  rule  of  law.  Japan  will  continue  to  support 
democratization and reform efforts by all countries.
The  continuous  violence  and  suppression,  as  well 
as  the  serious  violations  of  human  rights,  in  Syria 
cannot  be  overlooked  from  the  perspective  of  the  rule 
of  law.  Japan  strongly  condemns  such  violence  in 
Syria  and  fully  supports  the  efforts  by  Mr.  Brahimi, 
Joint  Special  Representative  of  the  United  Nations 
and  the  League  of  Arab  States  for  Syria.  Japan  also 
has  extended  humanitarian  assistance  to  the people of 
Syria.  Furthermore,  Japan  commends  the  leadership 
of  the  United  Nations  for  the  mediation  and  electoral 
support  provided  in  Libya  and  the  engagement  for 
political  transition  in  Yemen.  Such  assistance  is  vital 
for those countries in their efforts to achieve peaceful 
transitions based on rule of law.
With regard to the Middle East peace process, the 
United  Nations  must  also  play  a  proactive  role  there. 
Japan  strongly  hopes  for  the  immediate  resumption 
of  direct  negotiations  between  the  parties  and  is 
committed  to  continuously  contributing  to  the  efforts 
by  the  international  community  to  realize  a  two-State 
solution.
In  its  efforts  to  strengthen  the  rule  of  law  in  both 
the  regional  and  global  contexts,  the  United  Nations 
needs  to  redouble  its  efforts  aimed  at  suppressing  the 
proliferation  of  arms  that  could  fuel  conf licts  around 
the  world.  The  threat  posed  by  weapons  of  mass 
destruction  continues  to  be  one  of  the  most  pressing 
issues  that  the  United  Nations  and  its  Member  States 
need to tackle. 
Japan has been playing a leading role in the adoption 
of the General Assembly resolutions that call for united 
action  to  achieve  a  world  without  nuclear  weapons. 
Furthermore,  the  nuclear  and  missile  programmes 
of  the  Democratic  People’s  Republic  of  Korea  pose 
serious  threats  to  the  region,  as  well  as  to  the  entire 
international  community.  Japan  strongly  urges  the 
Democratic People’s Republic of Korea to fully comply 
with  the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions  and  its 
commitments  under  the  Joint  Statement  of  the  Fourth 
Round of the Six-Party Talks of 2005. 
With  regard  to  Iran,  Japan  continues  to  cooperate 
with  the  Security  Council  Committee  established 
pursuant  to  resolution  1737  (2006).  Japan  strongly 
believes that full implementation of the Security Council 
resolutions  on  sanctions  is  of  critical  importance,  as 
it  provides  a  solid  basis  for  United  Nations  action  to 
strengthen international peace and stability. 
In  order  to  strengthen  the  commitment  of  States 
Members of the United Nations to full implementation 
of  the  relevant  resolutions,  Japan  has  been  holding  a 
number of New York-based conferences since 2010, and 
we will continue to do so. We also need to establish the 
highest common standards to regulate the international 
trade  in  conventional  arms,  and  in  that  connection, 
the  creation  of  a  strong  arms  trade  treaty  is  one  of 
the  highest  priorities.  As  we  were  unable  to  conclude 
negotiations  on  such  a  treaty  at  the  previous  session, 
Japan,  as  one  of  the  original  seven  authors  of  the 
resolution  on  the  arms  trade  treaty,  will  do  its  utmost 
to finalize our work at the earliest possible time during 
this session of the General Assembly.
Terrorism  also 
remains  a  grave 
threat  and 
challenge  to  peace,  democracy,  and  freedom  that 
requires a continuing and comprehensive effort by the 
international  community.  Japan  has  been  extending 
4 
12-53869
assistance to Afghanistan and many other countries in 
order to address local conditions that may be conducive 
to  the  spread  of  terrorism.  Together  with  its  partners 
in  the  international  community,  Japan  remains  firmly 
committed to the eradication of safe havens for terrorists 
in order to ensure peace and security in the world.
Among  the  multitude  of  challenges  confronting 
the  United  Nations,  as  presented  in  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General,  foremost  is  the  building  of  the 
foundations  for  sustainable  development.  In 
that 
context,  accelerating  worldwide  efforts  to  achieve  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  is  a  crucial 
task,  and  Japan  is  determined  to  contribute  to  that 
process  and  also  to  work  toward  the  formulation  of 
the  next  development  framework.  In  that  regard,  my 
delegation  welcomes  the  establishment  of  the  High-
level  Panel  of  Eminent  Persons  on  the  Post-2015 
Development  Agenda  by  the  Secretary-General,  in 
which  former  Prime  Minister  Naoto  Kan  is  an  active 
participant. 
With  a  view  to  substantively  contributing  to  the 
post-2015  discussions,  including  the  High-level  Panel, 
Japan  has  been  leading  an  informal  discussion  forum, 
known as the post-MDGs contact group, since last year. 
As  the  chair  of  the  contact  group,  Japan  produced  the 
summary of the chair’s note and the framing questions 
as input to the Panel.
The issue of sustainable development, in particular 
the  follow-up  to  the  outcome  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  (Rio+20), 
is  another  major  task  that  the  United  Nations  must 
accomplish.  Japan  will  actively  participate  in  the 
follow-up process, including through discussions on the 
sustainable development goals. Japan is also committed 
to following up the Green Future Initiative, which the 
Government  of  Japan  announced  at  Rio+20.  In  that 
regard, Japan will host the International Conference on 
Urban Planning and Regional Development next year.
The  issue  of  climate  change  should  not  be  put  on 
the  back  burner.  We  must  keep  advancing  concrete 
efforts to reduce greenhouse gases without waiting for 
the  establishment  of  the  future  framework.  It  is  also 
important  that  such  efforts  be  made  in  effective  and 
efficient  ways,  not  only  in  each  country  but  through 
international partnerships. In that regard, we proposed 
Japan’s vision and actions towards low-carbon growth 
and  a  climate-resilient  world  at 
the  seventeenth 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
A/67/PV.22
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change,  and  have 
actively advanced regional and bilateral efforts alike.
Japan’s  efforts  have  included  the  first  formulation 
within  the  Asia  Low-Carbon  Growth  Partnership  of  a 
strategy  to  promote  low-carbon  growth  and  climate- 
resilient  development  in  the  framework  of  the  Tokyo 
International Conference on African Development and 
the new f lexible market mechanism proposed by Japan.
Although Japan appreciates the General Assembly’s 
complementary  efforts  concerning  the  grave  situation 
in Syria, it is regrettable that the Security Council has 
continued to fail to unite and speak in one voice on the 
issue. 
The malfunction in the Security Council reminds us 
that reform of the Council is long overdue and is one of 
the most urgent tasks that Member States should tackle 
with priority. Based on that belief, the Foreign Ministers 
of the Group of Four countries met in the margins of the 
opening of the current session of the General Assembly 
and reconﬁ rmed their common vision for reform. In that 
context,  Japan  appreciates  the  concrete  efforts  made 
by  the  Chair  of  the  intergovernmental  negotiations, 
Ambassador Zahir Tanin, during the sixty-sixth session 
and  welcomes  his  recommendations  contained  in  his 
letter  dated  25  July.  Japan  calls  for  the  drafting  of  a 
concise  working  document  on  the  matter,  and  calls 
upon  other  Member  States  to  be  actively  engaged  in 
genuine  text-based  negotiations  during  this  session 
with  a  view  to  the  holding  of  a  high-level  meeting  on 
Security Council reform.
Regarding  administration  and  budgetary  issues, 
that  significant  topic  includes  two  important  items, 
namely, the scale of assessments and human resources 
management,  including  the  mobility  framework.  Both 
items  will  have  great  impact  on  the  future  of  the 
Organization, and Japan will be actively and positively 
involved  in  the  negotiations  on  those  items.  Japan 
expresses  its  appreciation  for  the  Secretary-General’s 
continued strong commitment to better management in 
the  Secretariat,  and  we  welcome  his  recent  efforts  to 
improve transparency in the area of management. 
With regard to the regular budget, Japan will push 
for  budgetary  discipline  and  will  carefully  scrutinize 
potential  additional  requirements  for 
the  current 
budget. Furthermore, it is imperative for the Secretariat 
to consider the next biennium budget carefully, not by 
simply  extending  the  2012-2013  budget,  but  through  a 
fresh look at the true needs of the Organization.
12-53869
5
A/67/PV.22
I  will  close  my  statement  today  by  reaffirming 
Japan’s firm commitment to the efforts of the Secretary-
General in ensuring a common, effective and efficient 
United Nations.
Mr.  Khalil  (Egypt):  It  gives  me  great  pleasure  to 
congratulate  you,  Sir,  on  your  election  as  President  of 
the  General  Assembly.  I  would  also  like  to  thank  the 
Secretary-General for his valuable report (A/67/1).
The  successful  conclusion  of  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  (Rio+20) 
Conference and the adoption of its outcome document, 
“The  future  we  want”  (resolution  66/288,  annex), 
marked  the  launching  of  the  era  of  sustainable 
development  in  the  work  of  our  Organization,  which 
requires  a  more  integrated  approach  so  as  to  confront 
the global challenges that we are facing. In the coming 
era, interlinkages among the challenges facing us must 
be recognized, and economic, environmental and social 
aspects  must  be  incorporated  in  dealing  with  those 
challenges,  while  avoiding  separate  paths  towards  the 
same objective.
In  that  context,  integration  and  coherence  are  key 
words  that  should  also  apply  to  our  working  methods, 
including  addressing 
the  post-2015  development 
agenda,  which  should  be  fair,  inclusive,  sustainable 
and supportive of development efforts. While the rules 
for  the  future  establishment  of  the  working  group  on 
sustainable  development  were  not  among  the  topics 
addressed in the report of the Secretary-General, I take 
this opportunity to express concern about the delay in 
the establishment of that group.
In that regard, I would like to suggest considering 
the  appointment  of  two  facilitators  —  one  from  the 
developing countries and the other from the developed 
countries  —  and  to  convene  the  working  group  in 
an  open  format,  until  consensus  is  reached  on  its 
composition,  so  as  to  start  substantive  work  at  the 
earliest  opportunity,.  That  is  consistent  with  the  spirit 
and  letter  of  paragraph  248  of  the  Rio+20  outcome 
document,  which  provides  for  the  launching  of  an 
intergovernmental process that is transparent, inclusive 
and open to all stakeholders and for the establishment 
of an open-ended working group for that purpose.
Egypt  stresses  the  importance  of  accelerated 
progress  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals by 2015. We view the mention in the report of the 
decrease, for the first time in many years, in the level 
of official development assistance as well as the rise of 
trade protectionism, with great concern. They may have 
potential  negative  consequences  on  the  development 
efforts of developing countries.
Egypt reaffirms that any international response to 
climate  change  must  enhance  the  implementation  of 
the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate 
Change.  It  must  be  in  accordance  with  the  principles 
and  provisions  of  the  Convention,  in  particular  the 
principles  of  equity  and  common  but  differentiated 
responsibilities.
Egypt  looks  forward  to  a  positive  and  effective 
outcome to the Conference of the Parties to the United 
Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, to 
take place in Doha, Qatar. We hope that it will succeed 
in  achieving  and  agreeing  a  legally  binding  second 
commitment period of the Kyoto Protocol. 
We also look forward to United Nations efforts to 
help  African  countries  to  address  their  development 
goals.  We  call  for  providing  adequate  funding  for 
peacebuilding programmes by intensifying cooperation 
with international and regional financial organizations. 
We  also  look  forward  to  increasing  the  available 
resources of the Peacebuilding Fund.
The  Syrian  crisis  is  deteriorating  after  more  than 
18  months.  With  thousands  of  innocent  civilians 
killed, it is evident that the Syrian people do not need 
further  decisions  or  initiatives.  What  they  really  need 
is  substantive  improvement  on  the  ground.  That  will 
not  be  possible  unless  an  immediate  cessation  of 
violence is achieved. The Syrian regime bears the main 
responsibility  for  the  violence.  We  believe  that  any 
plans to resolve the crisis should be based on starting the 
process of transition and political change immediately 
in order to respond to the legitimate aspirations of the 
Syrian people and provide the necessary guarantees for 
all factions of Syrian society.
The  democratic  transition  in  Egypt  and  the  Arab 
world  has  proved  that  real  democracy  comes  from  the 
people, from their own priorities, from their aspirations 
to  economic  development  and  social  justice,  and  from 
their  cultural  and  religious  specificities.  It  highlights 
the 
relationship 
between  political,  civil,  economic,  social  and  cultural 
rights. That is why it is extremely important to provide 
further  support  for  United  Nations  efforts  to  promote 
all human rights and fundamental freedoms, including 
the right to development.
interrelated  and 
interdependent 
6 
12-53869
to 
to  protect 
implement 
is 
the  concept  of 
to  affirm 
The  starting  point  of  any  discussion  on  the 
the 
responsibility 
responsibility 
that  such 
responsibility  lies  mainly  with  the  Member  States. 
The  role  of  the  international  community  is  to  support 
Governments in carrying out that responsibility. We must 
continue discussions on the concept of responsibility to 
protect  in  accordance  with  the  relevant  paragraphs  of 
the 2005 World Summit Outcome document (resolution 
60/1) and the General Assembly resolutions, including 
resolution 64/291. We should avoid politicization of the 
concept.  We  should  also  avoid  using  it  as  a  pretext  to 
interfere in domestic affairs.
Egypt  welcomes  the  inclusion  of  youth  issues 
among  the  priorities  of  the  Secretary-General  in  his 
second term, as well as his emphasis on the comments 
made by the Egyptian President in his statement before 
the  General  Assembly  (see  A/67/PV.9)  to  consider  the 
establishment  of  a  United  Nations  body  on  youth  in 
order  to  address  the  challenges  facing  young  people 
and to respond to their aspirations in areas of education 
and  employment.  We  also  express  our  appreciation 
for  the  United  Nations  Entity  for  Gender  Equality 
and  the  Empowerment  of  Women  for  its  activities  in 
Cairo and its commitment to promote women’s political 
participation in the Arab States.
Corruption  in  all  its  forms  is  the  most  dangerous 
crime  in  all  societies.  It  undermines  security  and 
stability. It destroys national economies. It is also closely 
linked to forms of organized crime. Egypt looks forward 
to  identifying  the  contribution  of  the  United  Nations 
Task  Force  on  Transnational  Organized  Crime  and 
Drug Trafficking, established by the Secretary-General 
in  2011,  in  the  fight  against  corruption  and  achieving 
development,  especially  in  developing  countries.  We 
also  look  forward  to  effective  international  efforts  to 
recover illegally acquired funds smuggled abroad from 
developing countries, and to establish a mechanism to 
trace those assets in all countries, banks and financial 
institutions.
I  would  like  also  to  thank  the  Secretary-General 
for  emphasizing  the  importance  of  implementing  the 
outcome of the 2010 Review Conference of the Parties 
to  the  Treaty  on  the  Non-Proliferation  of  Nuclear 
Weapons  (NPT).  I  wish  to  highlight  the  particular 
importance  that  Egypt  attaches  to  the  upcoming  2012 
conference on the establishment of a Middle East zone 
free of nuclear weapons and all other weapons of mass 
destruction. The outcome document of the 2010 Review 
A/67/PV.22
Conference  (NPT/CONF.2010/50  (Vol.  I))  clearly 
mandated  the  Secretary-General  and  the  three  NPT 
depositary  States  to  take  the  necessary  measures  to 
convene the conference, in consultation with the States 
of the region. 
We reiterate that the achievement of the universality 
of  the  NPT  remains  the  basis  of  the  multilateral 
disarmament  regime.  I  would  like  to  emphasize  here 
that the final document of the 2010 Review Conference 
cannot  be  compared  to  other  documents  emanating 
from  other  forums  with  limited  participation  and  less 
authority.
Egypt  agrees  with  the  recommendations  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  the  need  to  combat  the  illicit 
proliferation of small arms and light weapons. It is also 
important  to  address  the  issue  of  the  accumulation  of 
stockpiles  by  producing  States  for  purposes  of  export 
and  profit.  The  arms  trade  treaty  should  achieve 
a  balance  between  the  interests  of  exporting  and 
importing  countries.  It  must  also  affirm  the  rights  of 
States to self-defence and to acquire, export and import 
weapons within legal frameworks.
In  conclusion,  I  express  our  appreciation  to  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  important  report,  and  I 
assure you, Sir, of Egypt’s readiness to work with you 
and with all other delegations to reach concrete results 
during  this  session  in  order  to  contribute  to  achieving 
our goals of peace, justice, development and universal 
human rights.
Mr. Rahman (Bangladesh): My delegation wishes 
to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report  on  the 
work  of  the  Organization  (A/67/1).  We  appreciate 
his  continued  efforts  and  those  of  his  staff,  both  at 
Headquarters and in the field, to meet the expectations 
of the membership.
The global community today is facing unprecedented 
challenges 
to  peace,  security  and  development. 
Ranging  from  popular  uprisings  to  political  turmoil, 
from  climate  disaster  to  global  financial  crises,  from 
human  rights  violations  and  deprivation  to  extremism 
or  terrorism,  the  list  of  threats  to  humankind  is  ever-
expanding. The times call for us to reaffirm our resolve 
and  fight  the  challenges  collectively  and  peacefully 
under the auspices of the United Nations.
The ideal of global peace and stability will remain 
an  empty  slogan  without  prosperity  in  the  developing 
countries.  The  global  economic  downturn  has, 
unfortunately, worn away years of development gains in 
12-53869
7
A/67/PV.22
many  countries.  Under  those  circumstances,  the  quest 
for  poverty  eradication  and  sustainable  development 
becomes  an  uphill  task.  It  thus  appears  that  the 
realization  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  by 
2015 will not be possible for many developing countries, 
especially 
least  developed  countries  (LDCs), 
without  additional  financing.  Against  that  backdrop, 
the reported decline in official development assistance 
last year is indeed alarming. 
the 
In general, developing countries should have more 
say  in  international  economic  affairs.  It  is  necessary 
to  establish  a  rules-based  and  fair  multilateral  trade 
system and push towards multilateral trade negotiations 
grounded in the principles of mutual understanding and 
concession. It is also essential to review decision-making 
processes  in  the  international  financial  system  and 
ensure  that  developing  countries  have  more  weight  in 
those processes. 
the 
removing 
trade  barriers, 
Support  for  the  least  developed  countries  like 
Bangladesh must come in the form of granting market 
access, 
fulfilment 
of  overseas  development  assistance  targets,  more 
aid  commitments,  funding  adaptation 
to  climate 
change,  and  giving  us  equal  voice  in  the  Bretton 
Woods  institutions  and  other  international  financial 
institutions.  Commitments  have  been  made  by  the 
international  community  to  strengthen  the  economic 
stability  of  LDCs.  It  is  now  time  for  the  development 
partners  to  implement  the  commitments  made  in 
Monterrey, Paris, Brussels and, most recently, Istanbul. 
Migration  for  development  is  one  of  the  largest 
inter-State  economic  activities  of  this  century.  The 
majority  of  the  world’s  labour  migrants  are  from  the 
developing  South.  Their  remittances  alleviate  poverty 
and contribute to development in both the sending and 
the  receiving  States.  Although  there  is  relatively  free 
f low of capital, there is no free f low of labour. In that 
regard, Bangladesh continues to advocate in favour of 
implementation of Mode 4 of the General Agreement on 
Trade in Services under the World Trade Organization.
the 
of 
Building 
foundations 
sustainable 
development  is  the  greatest  challenge  we  face  today 
as  an  international  community.  At  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  Conference 
(Rio+20),  the  international  community  renewed  its 
commitment to sustainable development. In its outcome 
document  (resolution  66/288,  annex),  Member  States 
agreed  to  define  universally  applicable  sustainable 
development  goals.  The  work  to  develop  the  goals 
will  begin  soon.  As  agreed  in  Rio,  that  work  will 
have to be closely associated and coordinated with the 
processes  that  will  take  up  the  development  agenda 
beyond  2015.  Priority  must  be  given  to  the  challenges 
of poverty, employment, food and energy, water, health 
and  environmental  sustainability.  The  Millennium 
Development  Goals  must  be  integrated  into  the  new 
framework  so  that  the  unmet  development  priorities 
continue  to  be  the  main  focus  of  the  international 
community.
Climate change is having a serious impact on many 
countries  and  is  even  threatening  their  existence.  Its 
impact is undermining the development efforts of many 
countries. It is high time that a global, comprehensive 
and ambitious agreement on climate change is reached. 
The  agreement  should  include  not  only  provisions  on 
greenhouse-gas  emissions  based  on  the  principle  of 
common but differentiated responsibilities and burden-
sharing,  but  also  the  concerns  of  climate  migrants, 
the  transfer  of  green  technologies  and  the  funding  of 
the Green Climate Fund, inter alia, for adaptation and 
mitigation purposes.
We  support  all  efforts  to  mainstream  the  rule  of 
law  into  the  activities  of  the  United  Nations  system. 
Whether  it  is  for  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security  or  the  promotion  of  development 
and protection of human rights, it is crucial to stick to 
and respect the rule of law. The countries that promote 
the rule of law internally must also respect the rule of 
law in international settings.
My  delegation  is  deeply  concerned  over  the 
the  multilateral  negotiations  on 
stagnation  of 
disarmament  and  non-proliferation.  Progress  in  the 
nuclear  field  continues  to  be  impeded  in  particular 
by  the  inability  of  the  Conference  on  Disarmament  to 
overcome its differences and agree on a programme of 
work that would allow for the resumption of substantive 
work.  There  is  also  need  for  meaningful  dialogue 
among  all  States  possessing  nuclear  weapons  to  build 
trust  and  confidence  for  reducing  the  imperative  of 
nuclear weapons in their security doctrines.
Poor regulation of the global trade in arms continues 
to pose a significant threat to peace and security. It is 
therefore  very  disappointing  that  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty  failed  to  agree 
on  the  text  of  a  treaty  that  would  have  set  common 
standards  for  the  international  trade  in  conventional 
arms.  It  frustrates  the  hopes  of  the  millions  of  people 
all  over  the  world  who  bear  the  brunt  of  the  negative 
8 
12-53869
A/67/PV.22
consequences  of  conf lict  and  violence  fuelled  by  the 
unregulated arms trade.
My  delegation  welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s 
efforts in the areas of peacekeeping and peacebuilding, 
which  are  the  vital  cornerstones  upon  which  the 
United  Nations  was  created.  The  challenge  before 
us  is  to  ensure  that  United  Nations  peacekeeping  is 
adequately  financed  and  enabled  to  meet  the  realities 
of  today.  We  strongly  support  continued  partnership 
among  the  troop-  and  police-contributing  countries, 
the  General  Assembly  and  the  Security  Council  to 
make  peacekeeping  more  effective.  It  is  also  essential 
to ensure that all stakeholders are closely involved with 
planning and managing peacekeeping operations.
The establishment of the Peacebuilding Commission 
(PBC),  the  Peacebuilding  Support  Office  and  the 
Peacebuilding Fund was an important development. The 
Peacebuilding  Commission  provides  a  much-needed 
forum in which all actors involved in peacebuilding can 
coordinate their efforts. The ongoing engagement of the 
PBC and the programmes funded by the Peacebuilding 
Fund  have  made  critical  contributions  to  fostering 
stability in post-conf lict countries. We need to nurture 
those nascent structures in the greater interest of peace 
and stability in the world.
We need to make the United Nations and its work 
more  relevant  to  the  evolving  international  order.  As 
such,  we  support  the  ongoing  efforts  to  undertake 
necessary  reform.  The  objective  of  the  reform  should 
be  to  strengthen  the  leading  role  of  United  Nations  in 
international  affairs,  enhance  its  working  efficiency 
and strengthen its capacity to deal with various threats 
and challenges. 
My delegation attaches importance to the ongoing 
process  of  revitalizing  the  General  Assembly.  The 
primacy  of  the  Assembly  f lows  from  the  universality 
of  its  membership  and  the  principle  of  the  sovereign 
equality  of  all  its  members.  The  General  Assembly 
should  be  emboldened  as  the  chief  deliberative  and 
policymaking organ of the United Nations. 
United  Nations  reform  will  not  be  complete 
without  meaningful  Security  Council  reform.  The 
Security  Council  needs  to  be  reformed  by  expanding 
both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent  categories 
of  membership  in  order  to  ref lect  the  realities  of  the 
twenty-first century.
We  attach  great  importance  to  the  transparent, 
accountable  and  efficient  management  of  the  United 
Nations. We welcome and support efforts to transform 
the  Secretariat  into  a  more  efficient  and  responsive 
body.  In  our  view,  a  dynamic  Secretariat,  accountable 
to  all  its  stakeholders,  is  needed  to  deliver  quality 
results for the benefit of the wider membership.
Finally,  it  is  our  sincere  hope  that  in  this  session 
the  General  Assembly  will  continue  to  move  from 
commitments  to  action  and  that  the  United  Nations 
will continue the process of transforming itself into an 
institution ready to meet the challenges of the day.
Mr.  Khan  (Indonesia):  Allow  me  first  of  all  to 
thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  report  on  the 
work  of  the  Organization  (A/67/1).  We  share  many  of 
his  assessments  of  the  current  world  situation  and  the 
activities  of  the  United  Nations  during  the  past  year. 
The  most  important  thing  for  us  to  do  is  ensure  that 
the United Nations delivers. We must deliver to achieve 
the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs)  and  other 
internationally  agreed  development  goals.  We  must 
deliver  to  bring  peace  to  places  of  conf lict.  And  we 
must deliver to promote human rights, rule of law and 
democracy.
Indonesia  aligns  itself  with  the  statement  made 
by  the  representative  of  Cambodia  on  behalf  of  the 
Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN). 
The world is confronted by multifaceted, interlinked 
and simultaneous challenges. Only by working together 
will we find the effective avenues and capacity needed 
to address them. I wish to take this opportunity to share 
some thoughts on the report, as follows.
First, I note with pleasure the successful conclusion 
of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development  (Rio+20),  which  renewed  the  global 
commitment to mainstreaming a balanced approach in 
order  to  integrate  the  three  dimensions  of  sustainable 
development.  It  is  essential  that  we  honour  our 
commitments  made  at  the  Rio+20  Conference.  While 
developed  countries  are  expected  to  do  more  to  help 
developing  countries,  the  latter  must  also  strive  to  do 
their utmost. When it comes to following up the Rio+20 
outcome decisions, it is important that the international 
community work in a coordinated manner to scale up its 
efforts.  The  United  Nations  should  therefore  focus  on 
ensuring that follow-up efforts to the Rio+20 outcomes 
are implemented.
Since  their  inception,  the  MDGs  have  lifted 
millions  out  of  poverty  and  to  a  better  standard  of 
living.  Yet  progress  has  been  uneven  and  unbalanced, 
12-53869
9
A/67/PV.22
and  many  countries  are  still  not  on  track  to  meet  the 
MDGs by 2015. We should therefore make it an urgent 
priority  to  greatly  accelerate  progress  by  providing 
those countries with the necessary support. And as the 
deadline  to  achieve  the  MDGs  approaches,  this  is  an 
appropriate time to begin a discussion that will lead to 
a  robust,  bold  and  ambitious  agenda  for  development 
beyond 2015.
that  personnel  are  prepared  for  the  complexity  of 
their mandated tasks, particularly those relating to the 
protection  of  civilians.  Indonesia  has  been  an  active 
participant  in  United  Nations  peacekeeping  missions 
since  1957,  and  will  continue  to  contribute  troops  and 
police  to  such  missions.  We  are  now  the  top  troop-
contributing  country  to  the  United  Nations  Interim 
Force in Lebanon.
For  developing  countries,  economic  growth  and 
eradicating  poverty  remain  overriding  priorities.  We 
share others’ concern that as the supply of fossil-fuel-
based energy is depleted, we must seek more sustainable 
and  efficient  energy  sources.  Indonesia  is  making 
ongoing  efforts  to  establish  bilateral  and  multilateral 
cooperation  in  the  promotion  and  development  of 
renewable  energy  use.  In  that  regard,  the  Secretary-
General’s initiative on sustainable energy for all could 
be  used  as  a  basis  for  formulating  national  policy  on 
energy. 
Concerning  the  issue  of  climate  change,  it  is  vital 
that the Doha Climate Change Conference, to be held at 
the end of this year, make significant progress towards 
saving  the  planet.  The  Conference  should  ensure  that 
the  second  commitment  period  of  the  Kyoto  Protocol 
will  be  effectively  implemented  in  order  to  create  a 
foundation for stabilizing the global climate in future. 
While,  in  a  spirit  of  common  and  differentiated 
responsibility, developed countries should take the lead 
in reducing emissions and developing countries should 
also  make  their  best  efforts,  the  world  must  come  up 
with  a  cogent  and  comprehensive  climate-change 
regime for the years following 2020.
to 
It is estimated that this year global unemployment 
will  reach  200  million,  of  whom  75  million  are 
young  people.  In  developing  countries,  where  young 
people  constitute 
the  fastest-growing  segment  of 
the  population,  prolonged  youth  unemployment  is 
damaging 
inclusive,  sustainable  and  equitable 
growth.  In  Indonesia’s  experience,  it  is  important  to 
encourage  growth  in  sectors  that  can  generate  greater 
employment, and to invest intensively in sectors such as 
health  and  education.  Cooperation  in  education,  skills 
development  and  training,  including  internships,  is 
very  important.  On-the-job  training  for  young  people 
that helps to support a successful transition from school 
to work should also be included.
Where United Nations peacekeeping operations are 
concerned,  we  must  ensure  that  adequate  equipment 
and  resources,  along  with  training,  are  available  so 
We  would  like  to  emphasize  the  importance  of 
enhanced transparency in the selection and appointment 
of  strategic  posts  in  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
operations, both in the field and at Headquarters, taking 
into  account  Member  States’  troop  contributions.  We 
also  plan  to  broaden  our  participation  by  becoming  a 
provider  of  global  civilian  capacity  in  the  aftermath 
of  conf lict.  In  that  regard,  we  continue  to  support 
transparent  dialogue  among  Member  States  and  other 
relevant stakeholders, in keeping with the provisions of 
resolution 66/255 on civilian capacity in the aftermath 
of conf lict.
Mr.  Touray  (Sierra  Leone),  Vice-President,  took 
the Chair.
We are deeply concerned about the many threats we 
see to international peace and security. We are worried 
that  the  continued  existence  of  nuclear  weapons  and 
the  growing  arms  race  are  casting  a  shadow  over  the 
stability  and  security  of  the  world.  We  must  exercise 
our  political  will  and  capacity  to  act  to  overcome  the 
continuing  lack  of  progress  and  impasse  that  aff lict 
our  disarmament  machinery.  We  must  tackle  the 
problems  that  are  hindering  progress  on  disarmament 
and  non-proliferation  firmly  and  in  all  seriousness. 
The  impasse  in  the  Conference  on  Disarmament  is  an 
obstacle  to  our  attainment  of  a  world  free  of  nuclear 
weapons.  It  is  vital  that  the  Conference,  as  the  single 
multilateral  negotiating  forum  on  disarmament  and 
non-proliferation, start its substantive work on the core 
issues of its agenda.
therefore  also  welcomes 
Indonesia  welcomed  the  third  biennial  review  in 
June  of  the  United  Nations  Global  Counter-Terrorism 
Strategy  and 
full 
implementation  of  the  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy’s 
four  pillars.  Indonesia  has  based  its  national  response 
to the challenge of terrorism on those pillars for several 
years  now,  and  we  believe  that  they  provide  the  kind 
of holistic framework necessary to ensure coordination 
and success. 
the 
10 
12-53869
At  the  regional  level,  Indonesia  has  participated 
in  several  initiatives  focusing  on  various  areas  of 
counter-terrorism. Through ASEAN, we have a strong 
and  highly  coordinated  approach  involving  various 
counter-terrorism programmes, as well as the ASEAN 
Convention  on  Counter-Terrorism.  We  believe  that 
the  Convention  will  fully  supplement  and  support  the 
implementation of the United Nations Global Counter-
Terrorism  Strategy,  especially  in  the  area  of  human 
rights,  and  address  the  issue  of  conditions  conducive 
to terrorism.
The  promotion  and  protection  of  human  rights  is 
one of our Government’s basic pillars. We continue to 
support  the  work  of  human  rights  institutions.  In  the 
light  of  this,  we  welcome  the  progress  made  by  the 
United Nations during the year in review. We share the 
view that not only are these rights universal, indivisible, 
interdependent  and  interrelated,  but  that  development 
cannot take place if human rights are imperilled. Social 
advancement  and  stability  can  be  guaranteed  only  if 
they  are  planted  in  the  fertile  soil  of  human  rights.  In 
that regard, we are pleased to be able to participate in 
United  Nations  efforts  to  strengthen  and  enhance  the 
effective functioning of the human rights treaty system.
Indonesia  is  pleased  that  2012  was  designated 
the  Year  of  Prevention.  Without  doubt,  recent  events 
in  the  Middle  East  and  North  Africa  have  underlined 
the  importance  of  the  concept  of  the  responsibility 
to  protect  in  guiding  countries  that  have  to  deal  with 
preventing and responding to such events.
Those  providing  humanitarian  assistance  should 
continue to uphold the principles of neutrality, humanity, 
impartiality  and  respect  for  the  sovereignty  of  the 
countries  in  question.  All  international  humanitarian 
assistance  should  be  organized  around  the  principle 
that the countries affected have primary responsibility. 
It  is  therefore  essential  to  strengthen  the  capacity 
and  resources  of  national  and  local  Governments 
to  coordinate  and  deliver  humanitarian  assistance, 
including in disaster risk management and mitigation.
We  welcome  the  continuing  role  of  the  Central 
Emergency  Response  Fund,  which  last  year  stood  at 
$465  million.  However,  funding  must  continue  to  be 
sustainable  and  predictable,  and  accountability  for 
the  use  of  funds  should  be  improved  through  greater 
transparency  and  evidence  of 
results  delivered, 
among  other  things.  The  work  of  the  United  Nations 
in  promoting  effectiveness  and  efficiency  in  disaster 
risk reduction should be enhanced through continuing 
A/67/PV.22
dialogue and improved coordination with its partners at 
the  global,  regional,  national  and  local  levels.  In  New 
York in March, Indonesia, together with Australia, Peru 
and Norway, formed the Group of Friends for Disaster 
Risk Reduction as an open-ended informal mechanism 
aimed  at  discussing  and  promoting  awareness  of 
disaster risk reduction, including the post-2015 Hyogo 
Framework for Action.
Given the magnitude of the challenges confronting 
us,  strengthened  cooperation  and  partnership  between 
the  United  Nations  and  regional  organizations  are 
enormously  important  in  helping  us  to  address  them. 
In that connection, we would like to emphasize that the 
adoption of the Joint Declaration on the Comprehensive 
Partnership  between  ASEAN  and  the  United  Nations, 
at  the  fourth  ASEAN-United  Nations  Summit  in  Bali 
in  November  2011,  showcases  the  concerted  efforts  of 
both organizations in teaming up to that end.
Indonesia  appreciates  the  work  of  the  Secretariat, 
particularly that of the Division for Ocean Affairs and 
the  Law  of  the  Sea,  which  has  assumed  the  duty  of 
organizing numerous ocean and law of the sea meetings. 
To  that  extent,  we  encourage  stronger  support  to  the 
Division to facilitate the provision of excellent service.
In  the  spirit  of  friendship  and  open  dialogue,  we 
will be able to move forward with the agenda before us 
at  the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the  General  Assembly. 
In  that  regard,  you  can  count  on  the  cooperation  and 
support of my delegation.
Mr.  Estreme  (Argentina)  (spoke 
in  Spanish): 
The  Argentine  Republic  wishes  to  express  its  thanks 
to  the  Secretary-General  for  his  presentation  of  the 
report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization  (A/67/1).  We 
agree  with  the  Secretary-General  that  the  pillars  of 
the  Organization’s  work  are  becoming  increasingly 
interrelated.  In  that  sense,  we  welcome  the  efforts  to 
improve  the  coordination  of  all  activities,  particularly 
the identification of the five areas in which cooperation 
with Member States will allow better execution of the 
mandates.
Sustainable  development  calls  for 
integrating 
aspects  of  economic  growth,  social  development  and 
environmental protection. It also needs to be inclusive. 
The  paradigm  of  sustainable  development  must  be 
based  on  the  fundamental  principles  that  all  States 
have  accepted,  particularly  the  principle  of  common 
but  differentiated  responsibilities.  That  principle  was 
reaffirmed last June at the United Nations Conference 
12-53869
11
A/67/PV.22
on  Sustainable  Development.  For  my  country,  that 
principle  has  been  an  integral  part  of  environmental 
negotiations  for  over  two  decades,  and  rightly  so. 
The  obligations  of  each  country  in  economic,  social 
and  environmental  areas  worldwide  must  match 
its  development,  its  specific  circumstances  and  its 
different  historical  responsibilities  for  environmental 
deterioration.
Another  fundamental  principle  in  the  context 
of  the  intersection  of  the  three  pillars  of  sustainable 
development  is  the  full  sovereignty  of  each  country 
over its natural resources.
that 
there 
Argentina  maintains 
is  no  single 
development model applicable to each and every nation. 
But  we  believe  that  growth  must  be  accompanied  by 
social inclusion and must permit the creation of decent 
work, which allows those who have the least to regain 
their  dignity.  We  are  not  in  favour  of  single  models, 
neither  our  own  nor  those  of  others,  when  it  comes  to 
implementing  each  country’s  policies  for  sustainable 
development.
We are willing to work within the General Assembly 
in an inclusive and transparent fashion to move forward 
in the achievement of sustainable development goals. It 
is  necessary  for  the  process  we  launch  to  be  strongly 
rooted  in  the  principles  that  have  guided  us  since 
1992, to be invigorated by scientific and technological 
knowledge  and  advances,  and,  above  all  else,  to  have 
the  means  it  requires  for  its  implementation.  We  must 
also consider together how to make future sustainable 
development  goals  compatible  with  the  Millennium 
Development Goals, adopted 12 years ago.
to 
the 
Turning 
idea  of 
the  green  economy, 
Argentina  will  not  accept  any  proposal  that  would 
result  in  green  protectionism,  nor  will  we  accept 
the  promotion  of  policies  that  constitute  disguised 
restrictions  on  international  trade  or  arbitrary  and 
unjustifiable  discrimination.  We  do  not  believe  that 
the  green  economy  should  replace  the  paradigm  of 
sustainable  development.  For  that  reason,  it  will  only 
be possible to conceive of the green economy as another 
tool for sustainable development — a tool that includes 
the  necessary  means  of  implementation  and  that  each 
country will be able to use in a sovereign fashion, taking 
into account its political needs and national priorities, 
as  agreed  in  the  outcome  document  “The  future  we 
want” (resolution 66/288, annex).
We agree with the Secretary-General that in recent 
years,  conf licts  have  become  more  complex.  The 
response of the United Nations must be appropriate to 
the circumstances. It must help prevent conf lict through 
the various methods for peaceful settlement of disputes 
provided for in Chapter VI of the Charter of the United 
Nations,  using  force  only  exceptionally  and  as  a  last 
resort. We welcome the decision of the President of the 
Assembly to devote the topic for this general debate and 
the  theme  for  the  current  session  to  a  concept  which 
my  country  holds  dear  —  the  peaceful  settlement 
of  disputes.  We  reaffirm  Argentina’s  unshakeable 
commitment  to  that  concept.  We  will  encourage  other 
States to adopt similar positions.
We  highlight  the  fundamental  importance  of 
respect for fundamental freedoms and human rights, not 
only for development but to put an end to the violence 
that  threatens  international  peace  and  security.  We 
believe that it is right to include human rights policy in 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations  and  political 
missions. We are certain that this will contribute to the 
effective execution of the Organization’s mandates and 
strengthen  the  link  between  peacekeeping  operations 
and respect for those very important rights.
Argentina leads a worldwide campaign to promote 
and  universalize  the  International  Convention  for  the 
Protection of All Persons from Enforced Disappearance. 
Our  country  was  the  first  in  Latin  America  and 
the  second  in  the  world  to  ratify  the  Convention. 
We  welcome  the  first  session  of  the  Committee  on 
Enforced Disappearances and the signing in Geneva in 
February 2012 of the third Optional Protocol to United 
Nations  Convention  on  the  Rights  of  the  Child  on  a 
communications  procedure,  which  Argentina  signed 
last July.
Argentina  agrees  with 
the  Secretary-General 
in  highlighting  the  important  contribution  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  to  the  fight  against 
impunity. The Court is the first permanent international 
criminal tribunal, and 2012 marks the tenth anniversary 
of its establishment. Also this year, the Court delivered 
its  first  decision,  sentencing  Thomas  Lubanga  for 
recruiting  children  in  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo. We emphasize the importance of addressing at 
the United Nations the issue of the financing of referrals 
made  by  the  Security  Council  to  the  Court.  We  also 
stress the importance of cooperation by all States, both 
parties  and  non-parties  to  the  Rome  Statute,  with  the 
Court, especially with regard to arrest warrants.
12 
12-53869
the  need 
For more than a decade, there has been international 
acknowledgement  of 
for  multilaterally 
negotiated  standards  that  introduce  predictability  in 
the transfers of conventional weapons and that require 
those  exchanges  to  be  carried  out  in  accordance  with 
the  principles  of  international  law.  Such  a  need  stems 
from various reasons, among which we underscore the 
unlawful use of arms, given the norms of international 
humanitarian and human rights law, and the risk of their 
diversion to terrorist or criminal groups. In that regard, 
Argentina believes that it is important to complete the 
work  of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  the  Arms 
Trade Treaty as soon as possible and to adopt a treaty 
within the framework of the United Nations.
to 
improve 
resolutions.  Likewise, 
With  regard  to  strengthening  the  Organization, 
its 
Argentina  supports  all  measures 
administrative  management  as  long  as  they  come 
under  the  mechanisms  provided  for  in  the  budget  and 
are  strategic  and  in  line  with  the  relevant  General 
Assembly 
the 
management  of  human  resources,  we  will  closely 
consider the Secretariat’s proposals, taking into account 
the  importance  of  adequately  protecting  the  rights  of 
staff  and  their  contractual  position.  With  respect  to 
those issues, we believe that close consultation among 
Member  States  is  key  to  the  success  of  any  reform 
process.
regarding 
Mr.  Dapkiunas  (Belarus)  (spoke  in  Russian): 
The  delegation  of  Belarus  notes  the  businesslike 
and  constructive  nature  of  the  Secretary-General’s 
report  (A/67/1).  We  share  the  view  of  the  Secretary-
General that the main task facing us as the international 
community  is  to  lay  the  foundations  for  sustainable 
development. 
Belarus reaffirms its commitment to the decisions 
of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development and is ready to contribute to multilateral 
efforts to implement those decisions. First and foremost, 
that  applies  to  issues  such  as  drawing  up  sustainable 
development  objectives,  strengthening  the  Economic 
and Social Council, technology transfers and technical 
cooperation in various fields, including energy.
It  is  important  not  to  reverse  the  sustainable 
development achievements made to date because of the 
global  economic  crisis.  On  the  post-2015  development 
agenda,  we  must  provide  for  steps  that  will  make  the 
achievements of Member States in various development 
fields irreversible. Cooperation and development must 
be built on full compliance with the principle of respect 
A/67/PV.22
for the interests of all Member States. Only in that way 
will  the  international  community  be  able  to  achieve 
a  prosperous  world  that  is  free  of  poverty,  disease, 
anachronistic  protectionist  measures  and  unilateral 
economic sanctions. 
We  believe  that  the  United  Nations  is  not  making 
sufficient use of factors conducive to promoting a global 
economic recovery. In that context, we draw attention to 
middle-income countries as one such element. Planned 
and targeted assistance to such countries will increase 
the number of donor States and will clearly show least 
developed  countries  the  possibilities  for  multilateral 
cooperation  once  they  have  achieved  a  new  level  of 
development.
We  place  particular  hope  in  the  upcoming  four-
yearly  comprehensive  policy  review  of  operational 
development  activities  within  the  United  Nations 
system. In our opinion, that review must lead to a system 
of  targeted  measures  seeking  to  ensure  sustainable 
development for all States that receive United Nations 
assistance.
We  are  concerned  about  the  decreasing  share 
of  resources  for  the  programme  activities  of  United 
Nations operational bodies. That has a negative impact 
on the predictability and coordination of their work. In 
that  regard,  we  believe  that  the  efforts  of  the  United 
Nations  system  to  stabilize  financing  for  development 
must be stepped up by increasing the number of donors 
and public-private partnerships. 
The  United  Nations  role  in  ensuring  sustainable 
development cannot overlook supporting young people. 
That will help to achieve the Millennium Development 
Goals  and  the  post-2015  development  agenda.  We 
welcome the efforts of the United Nations in establishing 
and implementing projects to support young people, in 
particular the most vulnerable groups. In that respect, 
Belarus  welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s  new  global 
initiative  on  education  so  as  to  invest  in  the  next 
generation.  We  also  call  for  the  support  of  talented 
young  people  to  be  more  actively  included  in  United 
Nations  programmes  in  order  to  help  educate  a  new 
kind  of  future  leader  and  manager.  We  are  impressed 
by  the  Secretary-General’s  drive  to  introduce  a  new 
system of talent management in the Secretariat.
The 
links  between  development 
the 
maintenance  of  peace  and  security  are  clear.  Belarus 
shares  the  report’s  concern  about  the  lack  of  progress 
on resolving disarmament and non-proliferation issues. 
and 
12-53869
13
A/67/PV.22
We support the rapid launch of substantive work by the 
Conference on Disarmament. Its progress will depend 
on the political will of a group of leading States and of 
the five nuclear Powers. Belarus supports the drafting 
of  a  new  international  instrument  to  resolve  issues 
related to the uncontrolled proliferation of conventional 
arms. 
We  share  the  concerns  of  the  Secretary-General 
over  the  failure  of  negotiations  at  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  the  Arms  Trade  Treaty.  Continued 
negotiations  as  part  of  the  arms  trade  treaty  should 
serve  as  an  additional  catalyst  for  the  efforts  of  the 
international community to solve the urgent issue of the 
proliferation of conventional arms.
Belarus  underscores  the  importance  of  the  rule  of 
law  as  the  key  to  conf lict  prevention,  peacebuilding, 
conf lict  settlement  and  the  maintenance  of  peace  and 
security. The recent High-level Meeting of the General 
Assembly  on  that  issue  and  its  outcome  document 
(resolution  67/1)  are  very  significant.  We  believe  that 
any  initiative  concerning  conf lict  prevention  and  the 
prevention of loss of human lives that is submitted for 
consideration  must  ensure  strict  compliance  with  the 
principles of the rule of law. We underscore the need for 
all States to agree on the modalities for such initiatives 
before their practical implementation.
Belarus  supports  continued  effective  cooperation 
on combating terrorism at all levels within the United 
Nations  system.  We  underscore  the  importance  of 
strengthening  the  legal  framework  for  countering 
terrorism  and  of  establishing  an  effective  and 
non-selective  system  for  the  provision  of  technical 
assistance for State capacity-building and to help States 
meet their commitments. 
Belarus values the Secretary-General’s commitment 
to  combating  violence  against  women  and  children, 
including  victims  of  human  trafficking.  We  note  with 
satisfaction that the United Nations plays an increasingly 
visible role in the global fight against human trafficking 
and  that  it  promotes  the  forging  of  constructive 
dialogue  and  cooperation  among  Member  States,  the 
United  Nations  system,  agencies  and  international 
organizations  in  order  to  counter  that  modern  form 
of  slavery.  We  urge  support  for  the  initiative  of  the 
Group of Friends United against Human Trafficking on 
the  convening  of  a  high-level  meeting  of  the  General 
Assembly  in  2013  to  assess  the  implementation  of 
the  United  Nations  Global  Plan  of  Action  to  Combat 
Trafficking in Persons (resolution 64/293).
The reform of the Organization is more urgent than 
ever. Without it, we will not have an effective toolkit for 
the prevention of global crises. We urge the Secretary-
General  to  continue  to  provide  valuable  assistance  to 
Member States in their efforts to revitalize the General 
Assembly, to strengthen and enhance the transparency 
of the Security Council and to expand its membership, 
and to reform and strengthen the role of the Economic 
and  Social  Council.  We  believe  that  the  reform  of  the 
Organization’s principal organs should be coordinated 
and comprehensive. That will ensure the harmony and 
effectiveness of the United Nations system.
The  Secretary-General  rightly  notes  in  his  report 
that  the  success  of  our  common  efforts  to  uphold  the 
fundamental  principles  of  the  United  Nations  Charter 
depends  on  our  ability  to  implement  a  meaningful 
agenda.  Belarus  hopes  that  a  constructive  spirit, 
marked by respect for the positions of States and their 
approaches  to  resolving  current  issues,  will  prevail 
at  this  General  Assembly  session.  We  trust  that  such 
a  spirit  will  enable  us  to  find  effective  responses  to 
today’s threats and challenges.
Mr.  Nuñez  Mosquera  (Cuba)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
We  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  the  presentation 
of  his  annual  report  on  the  work  of  the  Organization 
(A/67/1). The issues addressed by the Secretary-General 
in his report are multiple and essential.
Cuba  attaches  great  importance  to  the  future 
establishment  of  the  post-2015  development  agenda. 
That  process  should  be  distinguished  by  its  deeply 
intergovernmental,  transparent  and  inclusive  nature, 
under  the  auspices  of  the  General  Assembly.  The 
process  should  critically  analyse  the  reasons  for  the 
failure  to  achieve  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
and to establish a development agenda that responds to 
the  needs  and  strategies  of  the  countries  of  the  South 
that are the beneficiaries of international cooperation.
Initiatives to improve the functioning of the United 
Nations system for development, both at Headquarters 
and in the field, should be based on agreement among 
Member States and be accountable to them. Similarly, 
they  should  respect  the  nature  and  functions  of 
each  institution  and  ensure  the  alignment  of  their 
activities with the national priorities and strategies for 
development of each country. 
We must be very cautious when participating in or 
following  up  on  exclusionary  agendas  and  processes 
that have not been agreed upon in the framework of the 
14 
12-53869
United Nations but that nevertheless affect the central 
role of the United Nations and the General Assembly in 
taking the most important international decisions.
Furthermore,  we  wish  to  draw  the  Assembly’s 
attention  to  the  plethora  of  initiatives  that  have  been 
presented as intended to reform the United Nations but 
that have had unsatisfactory results or simply have not 
produced  any  essential  change.  Before  continuing  to 
make new proposals for change and reform, the current 
processes must come to a close and their impact must be 
assessed. In that context, we welcome the reorientation 
of the enterprise resource planning project (Umoja) after 
the institutional crisis that almost paralysed the costly 
update  of  the  Organization’s  information  technology 
resources.  We  hope  that  the  new  management  of  the 
project will bring it to a successful conclusion. Also, we 
must hope that the conclusion of ongoing construction 
projects, such as the Capital Master Plan, will come to 
an end before we start new ones. 
We  welcome  the  dialogue  of  the  Secretariat  with 
Member  States,  which  is  essential  in  addressing  the 
reforms  and  administrative  and  budgetary  processes 
of the Organization. In that context, the accountability 
of  the  Secretariat  at  all  levels  is  of  great  importance. 
Resolution  66/257  is  clear  about  the  requirements 
to  renew  accountability  by  the  Secretariat.  We  have 
expressed  our  concerns  at  some  reports  made  by  the 
Group of 77 and China, which indicate what appear to 
be duplications of functions.
the 
launch  of 
Allow  me 
to  highlight 
the 
intergovernmental  process  to  strengthen  and  improve 
the effective functioning of the system of human rights 
treaty bodies, which occurred at the last session of the 
General Assembly. We have supported the process since 
its  inception.  A  few  weeks  ago,  it  concluded  its  first 
cycle  of  consultations,  and  negotiations  will  continue 
throughout the current session.
With regard to human rights, we are concerned over 
the  ongoing  imbalance  in  the  way  they  are  dealt  with 
within the United Nations system. Economic, social and 
cultural  rights  continue  to  be  sidelined.  Furthermore, 
we  deplore  the  increasingly  extended  exploitation  of 
the issue of human rights in the Human Rights Council 
and  other  settings  of  the  United  Nations  to  politicize, 
cherry-pick  and  manipulate  opinion  against  certain 
developing  countries,  while  systematic  violations  of 
human  rights  that  take  place  in  other  countries,  in 
particular developed countries, are ignored. 
A/67/PV.22
into 
issues 
that  are  clearly  within 
In  the  same  vein,  the  incursion  by  the  Security 
Council 
the 
jurisdiction  of  other  bodies  of  the  United  Nations 
system  is  also  of  concern,  especially  their  increasing 
linkage to human rights issues mandated to the Human 
Rights  Council  and  the  Third  Committee.  Concepts 
such  as  the  responsibility  to  protect,  human  security 
and  preventive  diplomacy,  inter  alia,  which  are  not 
clearly  defined  or  intergovernmentally  agreed,  cannot 
be used as a pretext for interfering in the internal affairs 
of  States,  the  violation  of  their  sovereignty,  military 
invasion or to promote regime change from the outside.
With  regard  to  regional  arrangements,  we  believe 
that their role should be in full accordance with Chapter 
VIII of the Charter. They cannot substitute for the role 
of  the  Organization,  or  ignore  the  strict  application 
of  the  basic  principles  of  peacekeeping  operations. 
The  main  responsibility  for  maintaining  international 
peace and security lies within the United Nations. The 
General  Assembly  has  the  primary  responsibility  for 
formulating  and  assessing  concepts  and  policies  on 
peacekeeping  operations.  In  that  regard,  we  believe 
that  any  directive  or  doctrinal  document  drawn  up  by 
the Secretariat that has an impact on the way in which 
Member States participate in peacekeeping operations 
should be previously agreed upon through a process of 
intergovernmental negotiating.
The  interaction  of  host  countries  of  peacekeeping 
operations  with  the  troop-contributing  countries,  the 
Secretariat and the Security Council must continue to be 
strengthened. Host countries and the troop-contributing 
countries,  in  most  cases,  are  not  guaranteed  truly 
active participation in all stages of the decision-making 
process  for  peacekeeping  operations.  We  also  believe 
that there should be broader coordination between the 
Special  Committee  on  Peacekeeping  Operations  and 
the Fifth Committee.
One  of  the  major  challenges  that  we  continue  to 
face  is  that  of  reforming  the  United  Nations  so  that 
it  can  continue  to  serve  the  interests  of  all  nations  on 
an  equal  footing.  We  cannot  allow  reform  to  turn  our 
Organization  into  an  instrument  which  acts  in  the 
interests and on the whims of a few rich and powerful 
countries. As the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Cuba 
indicated at the recently concluded general debate, 
“it is urgent to save the United Nations and subject 
it to deep-seated reform, so as to put it at the service 
of all, equally sovereign States and free it from the 
12-53869
15
A/67/PV.22
arbitrariness and double standards of a handful of 
industrialized and powerful countries. 
law  and 
“International 
the  purposes  and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations should 
be resolutely enforced; the key role of the General 
Assembly  should  be  restored;  and  a  democratic, 
transparent  and 
truly  representative  Security 
Council should be relaunched” (A/67/PV.19, p. 10). 
We  cannot  speak  of  the  true  reform  of  the 
Organization  as  long  as  there  is  no  real  reform  of  the 
Security  Council.  This  year  showed  that  the  process 
of  intergovernmental  negotiations  for  the  reform  of 
the Council is at a stalemate. We urgently need a truly 
equitable  and  representative  Security  Council  that 
acts  on  behalf  of  all  and  within  its  mandate  under  the 
Charter,  without  usurping,  as  it  does  with  increasing 
frequency,  the  functions  and  prerogatives  of  other 
bodies of the system.
There  are  still  more  than  20,000  nuclear  weapons 
in  the  world,  and  more  than  7,000  of  them  are  ready 
for  immediate  deployment  —  and  they  are  far  more 
powerful than those that wreaked terror and death on the 
Japanese cities of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Completely 
banning and eliminating all nuclear weapons continues 
to be an urgent unfulfilled duty.
Those are some of the elements that we wanted to 
to raise in connection with the item before us. We will 
expand on our ideas in discussions in the Committees.
Serious challenges lie ahead of us. The world needs 
the United Nations and unified action on our part more 
than  ever.  Cuba  will  continue  to  work  tirelessly  for  a 
better world for everyone.
Mr.  Tarar  (Pakistan):  As  we  start  our  work  for 
this session, we are guided by our leaders who, in the 
general debate, shared their perspectives on the global 
challenges that we face, the opportunities that we must 
seize and the collective action that we must mobilize for 
our common good, peace and prosperity. They clearly 
reaffirmed  and  acknowledged  that  the  United  Nations 
was the key to the success of that endeavour.
The  central  role  of  the  United  Nations  is  evident 
from  the  annual  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on 
the  work  of  the  Organization  (A/67/1).  We  thank  the 
Secretary-General  for  his  report,  which  provides  a 
useful overview of the range of activities of the United 
Nations  in  the  three  pillars  of  work  —  peace  and 
security, development and human rights.
The  United  Nations  has  indeed  a  demanding 
agenda. I would like to take this opportunity to express 
our  appreciation  for  the  energy  and  strong  leadership 
that  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  has  brought  to 
our work. We support his efforts to adjust and realign 
the Organization’s structures to enable it to effectively 
tackle  the  contemporary  threats  and  challenges.  We 
also commend his commitment to building bridges and 
bringing the membership together in the pursuit of our 
shared goals and objectives.
Pakistan  supports  the  activities  of  the  United 
Nations.  We  have  contributed  to  the  collective  efforts 
of the United Nations constructively and consistently. I 
assure the President of the Assembly and the Secretary-
General that Pakistan will always be in the forefront of 
support for the United Nations.
Faltering  economic  growth  is  leading  to  growing 
unemployment  across  the  globe.  The  sovereign  debt 
crisis runs the risk of spreading to other economies. The 
United Nations system must come together in forging a 
response to the ongoing economic crisis. It is not enough 
to  seek  solutions  in  exclusive  gatherings.  We  need  an 
inclusive United Nations development agenda that is in 
sync with the imperatives of poverty eradication, green 
economic  growth  and  sustainable  development.  That 
should remain an overarching priority.
We  are  pleased  to  note  the  thrust  of  the  report  on 
progress  in  achieving  the  Millennium  Development 
Goals (MDGs). However, that progress has been uneven. 
As we move towards 2015 and beyond, it is critical for 
the United Nations system as a whole to keep in mind the 
lessons learned from the implementation of the MDGs. 
We  also  need  to  ensure  that  new  processes,  including 
the  elaboration  of  the  sustainable  development  goals, 
will build on the MDGs.
Pakistan 
remains  committed 
to  accelerating 
progress  on  achieving  the  MDGs.  We  would  like  the 
United  Nations  system  to  help  Pakistan  navigate 
through  its  own  challenges.  To  that  end,  we  would 
also  invite  the  high-level  panel  on  the  post-2015 
development  agenda  to  undertake  a  special  review  of 
the circumstances that countries like my own are facing 
in achieving the MDGs.
supports 
the 
Pakistan 
Secretary-General’s 
Sustainable  Energy  for  All  initiative.  We  would,  in 
fact,  like  to  benefit  from  the  initiative  and  to  work 
with  the  Secretary-General’s  Office  and  Mr.  Kandeh 
16 
12-53869
Yumkella of the United Nations Industrial Development 
Organization to develop a plan of action for Pakistan.
Pakistan  welcomes  the  agreement  reached  at  the 
United Nations Conference on Sustainable Development 
(resolution  66/288,  annex).  Notwithstanding 
the 
difficulties,  we  succeeded  in  laying  a  solid  basis  for 
achieving  “The  future  we  want”.  As  the  Secretary-
General’s report correctly points out, the international 
community  must  deal  with  that  challenge  head-on, 
particularly  when  it  comes  to  arresting  and  halting 
the  negative  trends  in  climate  change.  Even  though 
Pakistan  is  closely  engaged  in  negotiating  the  future 
legal  framework  by  2015,  we  do  not  think  that  efforts 
at addressing climate change must come to a halt until 
the  time  we  manage  to  reach  that  agreement.  Such 
an  approach,  as  apparently  suggested  by  some  major 
polluters, would be disastrous for vulnerable developing 
countries.
We  agree  with  the  Secretary-General  that  the 
Organization  will  not  be  able  to  meet  the  demands 
and  expectations  in  regard  to  the  maintenance  of 
international peace and security without the necessary 
resources and equitable global burden sharing. Over the 
years,  Pakistan  has  provided  concrete  support  for  the 
work of the United Nations and for achieving success on 
international peace and security as a leading contributor 
of personnel to United Nations peacekeeping missions, 
particularly in Africa.
Currently,  as  a  non-permanent  member  of  the 
Security  Council  serving  for 
time, 
Pakistan  will  continue  to  play  its  constructive  role  in 
consolidating the successes achieved in many situations 
and  addressing  the  challenges  that  remain  in  so  many 
others. We are particularly conscious of the urgency of 
the situations in Syria and Mali.
the  seventh 
We  take  this  opportunity  to  call  for  a  renewed 
political  commitment  to  United  Nations  peacekeeping 
and for the provision of adequate and timely resources. 
The  long-overdue  issue  of  troop-cost  reimbursement 
must also be updated as a matter of priority. I should also 
emphasize that the adjustment of the size and mandates 
of  missions  must  be  done  carefully  and  correspond  to 
the  specific  requirements  and  trajectories  in  different 
situations. We must also utilize the true potential of the 
Peacebuilding Commission.
We  appreciate  the  continued  involvement  and 
oversight of the United Nations in Jammu and Kashmir 
through  its  peacekeeping  mission,  the  United  Nations 
A/67/PV.22
Military  Observer  Group  in  India  and  Pakistan.  We 
believe  that  the  peaceful  settlement  of  long-standing 
disputes, as those of Palestine and Jammu and Kashmir, 
will help promote international peace and stability and 
enhance the prestige and sanctity of the United Nations.
Pakistan  has  an  unwavering  commitment 
to 
Africa.  From  our  support  to  the  continent’s  struggle 
for decolonization, to our cooperation and assistance in 
capacity-building, to our participation in peacekeeping, 
we  have  all  along  stood  with  Africa.  We  commend 
Africa’s own leadership and initiatives in addressing its 
challenges and will continue to support all international 
efforts for peace and development on the continent.
Disarmament  and  non-proliferation  are  mutually 
reinforcing  processes,  which  must  be  pursued  in 
tandem while respecting the right to equal security for 
all  States.  In  seeking  ways  to  overcome  the  deadlock 
in  the  Conference  on  Disarmament,  it  is  imperative 
to  acknowledge  and  address  the  underlying  security 
concerns of all States. Pakistan will continue to support 
the  international  community’s  efforts  geared  towards 
nuclear  safety  and  nuclear  security.  We  reiterate  our 
call for the convening of a special session of the General 
Assembly to craft a new consensus on the disarmament 
and non-proliferation agenda and machinery. 
Pakistan  is  committed  to  the  promotion  and 
protection of human rights. More than ever before, it has 
become  essential  to  avoid  selectivity  and  to  genuinely 
promote all human rights — civil and political, as well 
as  economic,  social  and  cultural  rights,  including  the 
right to development.
We  appreciate  the  coordination  role  played  by  the 
United  Nations  in  humanitarian  assistance,  of  which 
Pakistan  itself  has  been  a  major  beneficiary.  We 
take  note  of  the  launch  of  the  Inter-Agency  Standing 
Committee  Transformative  Agenda,  which  tackles  the 
challenges  and  lessons  learned  from  the  humanitarian 
responses  to  Haiti  and  Pakistan.  An  inclusive  and 
consultative  approach  remains  critical  for  effective 
humanitarian work.
We are cognizant of the increasing threat to peace 
and security posed by organized crime, drug trafficking 
and  terrorism.  The  funding  and  fuelling  of  terrorism 
through illicit drug trafficking has emerged as a major 
problem. Pakistan will hold a regional conference later 
this year to develop a unified approach to stamp out the 
drug trade.
12-53869
17
A/67/PV.22
International counter-terrorism efforts will require 
continued cooperation and coordination among Member 
States. At the same time, the role of the United Nations 
will  remain  crucial  and  it  will  need  to  be  adequately 
prepared for the challenge.
Our objective of international harmony will be best 
served  by  promoting  understanding  among  religions 
and  civilizations.  The  recent  deliberate  incidents  of 
defamation of Islam and our Prophet — peace and the 
blessings  of  Allah  be  upon  him  —  remind  us  of  the 
need to discourage and combat such acts. We appreciate 
the  Secretary-General’s  forthright  stance  on  those 
incidents.  As  President  Zardari  said  in  this  address  to 
the General Assembly: 
“Although  we  can  never  condone  violence,  the 
international  community  must  not  remain  a  silent 
observer  and  should  criminalize  such  acts,  which 
destroy the peace of the world and endanger global 
security  by  abusing  the  freedom  of  expression. 
Pakistan asks that the United Nations immediately 
address  this  matter  of  great  alarm  and  concern 
and bridge the widening rift in order to enable the 
comity of nations to be one again.” (A/67/PV.7, p. 23) 
The  common  good  lies  in  pursuing  policies  and 
actions  that  will  make  us  all  stakeholders  in  each 
other’s  futures.  Cooperation,  not  confrontation,  is  the 
answer to the many problems that we face.
The United Nations is the best mechanism to promote 
cooperative  multilateralism.  It  is  in  our  collective 
interest  to  adapt,  equip,  reform  and  strengthen  the 
United  Nations  to  play  its  role  effectively.  We  remain 
committed to achieving this objective with the support 
and consensus of all Member States.
Mr.  Ahamed  (India):  I  am  privileged  to  address 
the  General  Assembly  today.  Allow  me  to  begin  by 
congratulating  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić  on  assuming  the 
presidency of the General Assembly at its sixty-seventh 
session.
The  annual  report  of  the  Secretary-General  on 
the work of the Organization (A/67/1) covers the wide 
spectrum of issues that inform the activities of the United 
Nations.  It  underscores  the  global  and  interdependent 
nature  of  the  challenges  we  face.  It  shines  a  spotlight 
on  the  unfinished  agenda  of  development  and  reform. 
It points to the turbulent times we live in. It reinforces 
our  conviction  that  the  need  of  the  hour  is  genuine 
multilateralism.
The sociopolitical upheaval in West Asia and North 
Africa  since  last  year  has  unleashed  profound  change 
and  transition  with  which  the  region  is  still  coming 
to  terms.  India  is  very  concerned  at  the  escalating 
situation  in  Syria.  We  support  United  Nations  efforts 
to find a solution to the crisis through dialogue and an 
inclusive, Syrian-led political process.
It is a matter of regret that the question of Palestine 
remains  unresolved,  and  we  support  the  Palestinians’ 
request for enhanced status at the United Nations. India 
firmly supports the aspirations of the Palestinian people 
to achieve a sovereign, independent, viable and united 
State  of  Palestine,  with  East  Jerusalem  as  its  capital, 
living  within  secure  and  recognized  borders  side  by 
side and at peace with Israel.
Even  as  we  approach  the  2015  finish  line  for  the 
Millennium Development Goals, there is already haste 
to look to the post-2015 agenda. The quest for poverty 
eradication  and  sustainable  development  remains 
as  salient  as  ever.  Significant  roadblocks  still  stand 
in  the  way  of  food  and  energy  security,  health  and 
education for much of the developing world. Countries 
are  only  tentatively  emerging  from  the  shadow  of  the 
worst  economic  and  financial  crisis  since  the  Great 
Depression.  The  magnitude  of  the  challenge  is  driven 
home  by  the  fact  that  more  than  a  billion  people 
worldwide continue to languish in extreme poverty and 
hunger.
One 
thing 
is  abundantly  clear  —  unmet 
development priorities must be well integrated into the 
post-2015  framework.  The  United  Nations  Conference 
on  Sustainable  Development  handed  us  a  robust 
agenda  on  sustainable  development.  We  must  now 
train our energies on the best way to implement it in an 
intergovernmental setting. As we embark on a process 
of  framing  sustainable  development  goals,  crucial 
issues  —  such  as  that  of  resource  mobilization,  be  it 
through  official  development  assistance,  technology 
transfer, trade or foreign direct investment — must find 
appropriate priority and be enshrined in the principles 
of  common  but  differentiated  responsibilities  and 
equity.
On  climate  change,  India  will  work  with  others 
to  design  a  comprehensive,  equitable  and  balanced 
outcome  at  the  upcoming  eighteenth  session  of  the 
Conference  of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations 
Framework Convention on Climate Change, to be held 
in Doha, Qatar. We ourselves are currently hosting the 
eleventh  Conference  of  Parties  to  the  Convention  on 
18 
12-53869
Biological Diversity. Our expectation is that all parties 
will  work  for  a  strong  development-oriented  outcome 
and  for  the  early  implementation  of  the  Nagoya 
Protocol to ensure the equitable sharing of the benefits 
of biodiversity.
In so far as our development partnership initiatives 
go,  we  are  resolved  to  carry  forward  and  expand  our 
multifaceted  and  vibrant  cooperation  with  Africa, 
including  through  the  framework  of  the  India-Africa 
Forum Summit. Similarly, we will continue to build on 
our  commitments  for  enhanced  cooperation  with  least 
developed  countries,  landlocked  developing  countries 
and small island developing States, within the rubric of 
South-South cooperation.
The international community has long acknowledged 
the  ever-present  and  pervasive 
threat  posed  by 
terrorism.  No  country,  city  or  region  is  immune  from 
this  global  scourge.  And  yet,  regrettably,  we  have 
failed  by  continuing  to  procrastinate  in  concluding  a 
comprehensive  convention  on  international  terrorism. 
It  is  high  time  that  Member  States  summoned  the 
necessary political will to agree on such a convention as 
a sound legal framework for the fight against terrorism. 
We  need  concerted  global  action.  Such  action  should 
be predicated on zero tolerance towards terrorism and 
aimed at systematically dismantling its infrastructure.
India has a proud and time-tested association with 
United  Nations  peacekeeping  dating  back  to  its  very 
inception. We have contributed over 130,000 personnel 
so far to this f lagship endeavour of the United Nations. 
As  peacekeeping  moves  forward,  we  must  remain 
mindful of the challenges of operating in increasingly 
complex  environments.  Particular  attention  should  be 
paid  to  ensuring  that  complex  mandates  are  matched 
by  adequate  resources  so  as  to  get  the  job  done  safely 
and  effectively.  In  this  process,  it  is  of  the  utmost 
importance that there be real, effective and continuous 
consultation  with 
in 
framing and implementing mandates.
troop-contributing  countries 
It is also not lost on us that, if it is to be enduringly 
successful, peacekeeping must be seamlessly dovetailed 
with peacebuilding efforts. The United Nations needs to 
pay  better  attention  to  evolving  a  cogent  and  coherent 
peacebuilding  framework  that  takes  into  account  the 
capacities at hand and the complexities on the ground.
I  should  like  to  make  one  final  remark  regarding 
the  Secretary-General’s  internal  reform  efforts.  We 
have  taken  note  of  the  initiatives  to  modernize  and 
A/67/PV.22
reform  the  Secretariat,  including  through  large-scale 
business  transformation  projects  such  as  the  new 
enterprise  resource  planning  system,  Umoja; 
the 
International  Public  Sector  Accounting  Standards; 
and  the  Capital  Master  Plan.  While  each  involves 
considerable  investment,  we  see  them  as  important 
drivers in modernizing the United Nations. 
Nevertheless,  it  is  our  deep-rooted  conviction 
that  the  relevance  of  the  United  Nations  ultimately 
hinges  on  more  fundamental  reform  of  its  governance 
architecture,  which  is  frozen  in  another  era  that 
perpetuates  the  rights  of  the  haves  of  the  mid-1940s. 
It  is  only  through  such  governance  reform  that  the 
United  Nations  can  truly  invigorate  action  on  issues 
of pressing global concern, be they peace and security, 
climate change, development or all human rights.
Let me therefore conclude by raising something that 
inexplicably is not mentioned in the Secretary-General’s 
report. That is the important issue of Security Council 
reform,  on  which 
intergovernmental  negotiations 
have  seen  much  movement  and  a  clear  affirmation  by 
an  overwhelming  majority  of  the  Member  States  for 
expansion  in  both  the  permanent  and  non-permanent 
categories. We regard the omission of the progress made 
in the intergovernmental negotiations on the issue as a 
significant drawback of the Secretary-General’s report. 
We hope to see it corrected in future reports.
In terms of the process itself, India looks forward 
to capitalizing on the momentum generated so far to see 
real, fruitful and productive negotiations in the current 
session  of  the  General  Assembly  on  that  important 
reform.
Mr.  Wang  Min  (China)  (spoke  in  Chinese):  The 
Chinese  delegation  welcomes  Secretary-General 
Ban Ki-moon’s report on the work of the Organization 
(A/67/1).
Today, 
the  world 
is  undergoing 
important 
and  profound  changes.  Multipolarity,  economic 
globalization and the spread of information technology 
in  society  are  all  developing  in  depth.  All  countries 
are  interconnected  and  more  interdependent  than  ever 
before.  Peace,  development  and  cooperation  are  the 
general  wishes  shared  and  pursued  tirelessly  by  the 
peoples  of  all  countries.  At  the  same  time,  the  deep 
impact of international economic and ﬁ nancial crises are 
far from over. The recovery of the world economy faces 
risks, which calls into question the on-time realization 
of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). 
12-53869
19
A/67/PV.22
The  international  security  situation  is  complex. 
Regional  hotspot  issues  keep  on  emerging  here  and 
there.  Turbulence  in  West  Asia  and  North  Africa 
persists.  The  prospect  for  nuclear  non-proliferation 
remains  grim.  Both  traditional  and  non-traditional 
security problems are interwoven. 
In the past year, in the face of multifaceted threats 
and  challenges,  the  United  Nations  has  been  actively 
promoting  multilateral  cooperation  and  has  played 
an  important  role  in  promoting  economic  growth  and 
sustainable  development,  safeguarding  international 
peace  and  security,  promoting  and  protecting  human 
international 
rights, 
humanitarian 
assistance,  combating 
terrorism,  and  promoting 
disarmament and nuclear non-proliferation.
coordinating 
The  next  five-year  programme  of  action  proposed 
by the Secretary-General has also made initial progress. 
I  would  like  to  take  the  opportunity  to  express  our 
appreciation for his diligent work in the past year.
It is necessary for the United Nations to continue to 
play a coordinating role in development. As economic 
globalization  is  deepening,  the  interests  of  Member 
States  are  further  integrated.  We  need  to  expand 
areas  of  cooperation  and  improve  the  mechanisms  for 
that  purpose  in  the  interest  of  a  balanced,  generally 
beneficial  and  win-win  development  of  economic 
globalization.  We  need 
the 
development  of  developing  countries  and  narrow  the 
gap  between  North  and  South  so  that  the  benefit  of 
development can be shared by all peoples in the world.
further  promote 
to 
At  present,  we  need  to  earnestly  implement  the 
outcome  and  consensus  reached  at  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  and  promote 
progress  in  international  cooperation  for  sustainable 
development.  To  actively  implement  the  MDGs,  the 
United  Nations  needs  to  explore  the  formulation 
of  a  post-2015  international  development  agenda. 
The  Organization  should  take  development  and  the 
eradication of poverty as its core objectives and engage 
in open, transparent and democratic intergovernmental 
consultations.  It  should  also  allow  civil  society,  the 
private sector and others to play an active role.
To  effectively  respond  to  complex  and  varied 
security  threats  and  challenges,  it  is  necessary  to 
fully  explore  the  core  role  of  the  United  Nations  in 
maintaining 
international  peace  and  security.  In 
international relations, Member States should continue 
to steadfastly adhere to the purposes and principles of 
the Charter of the United Nations and the basic norms 
governing  international  relations.  State  sovereignty 
and  territorial  integrity  cannot  be  violated,  and  the 
post-Second  World  War  international  order  cannot  be 
challenged.
Member  States  also  need  to  respect  the  solemn 
principles  of  equality  and  non-interference 
in 
internal  affairs  and  should  espect  countries’  rights 
to  autonomously  choose  their  social  systems  and 
approaches to development. The United Nations should 
advocate  and  promote  a  culture  of  peace  and  support 
the settlement of disputes by peaceful means, including 
through dialogue and negotiations.
thread 
facing 
Terrorism 
is  a  common 
the 
international  community.  China  opposes  all  forms 
of  terrorism.  In  fighting  terrorism,  it  is  necessary  to 
renounce double standards. It is a noble goal to protect 
human  rights  and  to  protect  innocent  civilians  from 
harm,  but  no  State  may  forcibly  pursue  change  in  the 
name of humanitarian intervention. We should respect 
diversity  in  the  world.  The  international  community 
should  further  advocate  dialogue,  exchanges,  mutual 
respect  and  equal  coexistence  among  different 
civilizations and religions.
In  the  face  of  those  new  developments,  it  is  the 
general  expectation  of  the  international  community 
that  the  United  Nations  should  play  a  greater  role 
in  maintaining  world  peace,  promoting  common 
development and strengthening international cooperation. 
China  supports  the  Organization’s  efforts  to  carry 
out  necessary  and  sound  reforms  so  as  to  improve 
its  authority  and  efficiency  and  to  better  perform  the 
mandates entrusted to it by the Charter. United Nations 
reforms should give developing countries a greater say 
in international affairs and help the Organization play 
a  bigger  role  in  coordinating  international  efforts  to 
respond to the new global threats and challenges. It is 
necessary  to  proceed  in  a  balanced  way  with  reforms 
in  areas  of  security,  development  and  human  rights. 
It  is  especially  necessary  to  promote  positive  results 
in  the  area  of  development  and  to  provide  necessary 
safeguards  for  development  in  terms  of  mechanisms 
and resources.
China  has  always  advocated,  supported  and 
practised  multilateralism  and  has  supported  the  core 
role  of  the  United  Nations  in  international  affairs. 
China will continue to actively participate in all areas 
of  United  Nations  work,  to  safeguard  the  authority  of 
the United Nations and to firmly support the purposes 
20 
12-53869
and principles of the Charter, ensuring that in its work 
the Organization pays greater attention to the interests 
of  developing  countries  so  that  it  can  make  an  even 
greater contribution to building lasting peace, common 
prosperity and world harmony.
Mr. Dos Santos (Brazil): I wish to thank Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  comprehensive  report 
on  the  work  of  the  Organization  (A/67/1).  It  describes 
the activities of the United Nations during a period in 
which the world’s demands on and expectations of the 
United Nations remain very high.
In  facing  today’s  most  pressing  global  challenges, 
strengthening  multilateralism  must  be  at  the  forefront 
of  our  plans  and  actions.  We  must  all  endeavour  to 
revitalize  the  work  of  the  General  Assembly  through 
concrete  initiatives.  The  Security  Council  must  be 
reformed  and  expanded  to  ref lect  the  current  political 
realities  and  to  allow  for  greater  participation  by 
developing countries, including as permanent members. 
Allow me make a few comments on specific issues.
As  we  approach  2015,  we  must  accelerate  our 
efforts  towards  the  achievement  of  the  Millennium 
Development  Goals.  The  international  community 
must  make  good  on  its  commitments  on  the  transfer 
of  technology  and  the  sharing  of  good  practices, 
knowledge and experience, and on support for national 
capacity-building,  especially  for  countries  that  are 
lagging behind.
At the same time, we must start work on the post-
2015  development  agenda.  We  are  confident  that  the 
Secretary-General’s  High-level  Panel  of  Eminent 
Persons  will  provide  an  important  input  for  Member 
States  to  deepen  and  broaden  the  set  of  development 
goals  in  a  manner  that  ref lects  the  most  pressing 
challenges  faced  by  the  international  community  and 
that helps to build the strong international partnership 
and  cooperation  framework  and  the  financial  and 
political support needed to achieve those goals.
The  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development  (Rio+20)  was  a  crucial  milestone  on  the 
road towards sustainable development. The agreement 
that  we  reached  in  Rio  reinforced  multilateralism.  I 
wish  to  take  this  opportunity  to  sincerely  thank  the 
Secretary-General and all United Nations staff for their 
unwavering  support  and  for  their  close  collaboration, 
which  made  Rio+20  the  largest  and  most  inclusive 
conference in the history of the United Nations.
A/67/PV.22
The outcome of Rio+20 (resolution 66/288, annex) 
reaffirmed  our  collective  commitment  to  sustainable 
development  and 
launched  a  series  of  essential 
processes to make that goal a reality. The development 
of  sustainable  development  goals  will  require  our 
cooperative  efforts.  The  goals  must  be  consistent 
with  the  principle  of  common  but  differentiated 
responsibilities  and  must  allow  for  f lexibility  in  order 
to  accommodate  the  specificities  and  priorities  of 
developing countries. 
Equally 
important  are 
the  mandates  for 
the 
establishment  of  the  high-level  political  forum,  the 
intergovernmental  process  on  options  for  an  effective 
strategy for financing sustainable development, and the 
facilitation mechanism that promotes the development, 
transfer and dissemination of clean and environmentally 
sound technologies. We must pursue them in earnest.
With  regard 
to  peace  and  security,  political 
instability  and  emerging  conf licts  continue  to  pose  a 
serious threat to regional and international security in 
many parts of the world. United Nations peacekeeping 
operations continue to be one of the most crucial aspects 
of  the  Organization’s  work  for  millions  of  people 
around  the  world.  We  strongly  support  the  continued 
partnership  among  the  troop-  and  police-contributing 
countries, the General Assembly, the Security Council 
and the Secretariat to make peacekeeping more effective. 
Progress  must  be  achieved  in  bringing  peacekeeping 
and  peacebuilding  activities  together,  in  improving 
the  interaction  of  United  Nations  missions  with  the 
local  population  and  in  enhancing  the  protection  of 
civilians. One challenge of particular importance today 
is  how  to  address  the  complex  problems  of  security 
and development in ways that are distinct yet mutually 
reinforcing.
With  regard  to  the  development  of  Africa,  the 
continent  remains  a  key  priority  of  the  Organization’s 
work.  Brazil  continues  to  be  an  engaged  partner  of 
African countries in their endeavour to maintain peace, 
to protect human rights, to promote economic growth and 
to  achieve  sustainable  development.  We  are  following 
with great interest the increasing collaboration between 
the  United  Nations  and  African  institutions,  such  as 
the  African  Union  and  regional  organizations.  We  are 
also confident that the Organization can play a decisive 
role  in  advocating  for  enhanced  cooperation  with  the 
African  continent  in  the  implementation  of  the  New 
Partnership for Africa’s Development.
12-53869
21
A/67/PV.22
Human rights is a basic pillar of the United Nations 
and  a  central  part  of  its  work.  Brazil’s  commitment 
to  the  promotion  of  the  rights  of  the  human  person 
is  unwavering.  The  United  Nations  must  strive  to 
operate  in  a  non-selective  and  constructive  manner, 
while maintaining the capacity to address situations of 
particular concern.
With  regard  to  the  responsibility  to  protect,  we 
emphasize  the  importance  of  prevention.  Whenever 
forceful  collective  action 
is  contemplated,  after 
exhausting all non-coercive measures, there is a need to 
promote responsibility while protecting as a necessary 
complement to the responsibility to protect. 
Regarding  strengthening  the  Organization,  Brazil 
supports  efforts  to  make  the  United  Nations  more 
effective,  efficient  and  responsive  to  the  needs  of 
Member States. In that regard, we look forward to the 
consideration by the Fifth Committee of the Secretary-
General’s proposals in the areas of administrative reform 
and  change  management.  We  welcome  a  process  of 
transparent and open communication between Member 
States  and  the  Secretariat.  That  is  key  to  ensuring 
successful reforms. We also highlight the importance of 
improving  the  transparency  of  the  budgetary  process, 
particularly with regard to voluntary contributions. 
The  Secretary-General  has  stated  that  human 
resources  management,  in  particular  mobility,  is  a 
priority for the Organization. We agree with him. It is 
essential that the Organization have access to a talented, 
multi-skilled,  motivated  and  diverse  workforce.  In 
that  regard,  Brazil  will  engage  constructively  in  the 
discussions  on  the  Secretary-General’s  proposals  for 
mobility,  with  due  regard  for  the  need  for  equitable 
geographic representation in the Secretariat.
Brazil will continue to be actively and constructively 
engaged in the work of the Organization.
Ms.  Dibaco (Ethiopia): At the outset, allow me to 
express  once  again  my  delegation’s  congratulations  to 
Mr. Jeremić on his election as President of the General 
Assembly at its sixty-seventh session. 
My delegation also wishes to thank the Secretary-
General  for  his  comprehensive  report  on  the  work  of 
the  Organization  (A/67/1).  The  report  describes  the 
progress that the Organization has made over the past 
year on the eight long-term global priorities identified 
by  Member  States.  As  illustrated  in  the  report,  the 
global  political,  economic  and  social  situation  is 
moving  faster  and  requires  a  rapid  response.  The 
problems  that  we  face  today  are  simply  too  complex 
to  be  solved  by  Governments  alone.  They  require 
collective,  coordinated,  enhanced  cooperation  and  a 
more  participatory  decision-making  process.  In  that 
regard,  we  welcome  the  Secretary-General’s  plan  to 
develop a comprehensive proposal that seeks to harness 
the power of partnership.
the  African  Union, 
First,  on  the  issue  of  peacekeeping,  we  strongly 
support  intensified  strengthening  of  United  Nations 
strategic  and  operational  collaboration  with  regional 
organizations  such  as 
the 
Intergovernmental  Authority  on  Development  and  the 
Economic  Community  of  West  African  States  with 
respect  to  peacekeeping  operations.  In  that  regard,  I 
wish to reaffirm Ethiopia’s commitment, as the largest 
African  troop-contributing  country  to  United  Nations 
peacekeeping  efforts,  to  continue  working  together 
with  the  United  Nations  and  the  African  Union  to 
realize peace and security in Africa and elsewhere.
to  Africa.  Despite 
Secondly,  we  commend  the  Secretary-General’s 
continued  commitment 
the 
considerable  progress  achieved  in  the  past  10  years, 
Africa  continues  to  face  significant  challenges  in  the 
area  of  peace  and  security,  as  well  as  socioeconomic 
development.  Hence,  there  is  a  need  for  concerted 
action  by  the  international  community  to  contribute 
towards  alleviating  the  development  challenges  of 
Africa. Obviously, Africa has been negatively affected 
by the global economic situation. No part of the world 
is immune to the consequences of the global economic 
downturn, and for obvious reasons, the least developed 
countries,  the  majority  of  whom  are  African,  are 
affected. 
Despite those factors, we have made much progress 
in  the  past  decades.  We  are  on  track  on  many  of  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs).  In  fact,  our 
achievements regarding Goal 1, on poverty alleviation, 
Goal  2,  on  universal  primary  education,  and  Goal 
3,  on  gender  equality  and  women’s  empowerment, 
are  encouraging.  During  the  three  years  remaining 
to  achieve  the  MDGs,  Ethiopia  will  continue  its 
commitment to eradicating extreme poverty and hunger 
by  continuing  to  improve  the  productivity  and  output 
of  smallholder  agriculture  and  to  enhance  the  income 
of  the  rural  population.  Ethiopia’s  resource  allocation 
has been guided by the Government’s pro-poor growth 
policy,  whereby  the  lion’s  share  of  available  resources 
is allocated for spending on the poor. In 2011, the share 
22 
12-53869
of pro-poor spending stood above 13 per cent of gross 
domestic product. 
Thirdly,  climate  change  is  a  global  phenomenon 
that  will  continue  to  affect  Ethiopia’s  efforts  to 
achieve  the  MDGs  and  its  vision  of  sustained  long-
term  growth  and  development  to  eradicate  poverty. 
Clearly,  the  international  community  must  tackle  the 
difficult task of reconciling the challenge of mitigating 
and  adapting  to  climate  change  while  supporting  the 
growth  priorities  of  developing  countries.  To  do  so,  it 
must  mobilize  financial  and  technological  resources 
far  beyond  historical  levels,  especially  for  the  least 
developed countries. 
to 
According 
the  Secretary-General’s 
report, 
climate change is already having an impact on people. 
Extreme  weather  events  have  increased  in  frequency 
and  intensity.  In  2011,  globally,  some  106  million 
people were hit by f loods and 60 million were affected 
by  drought.  In  that  regard,  I  would  like  to  express 
Ethiopia’s commitment to working with Member States 
to  secure  resources  and  a  global  binding  agreement 
commensurate  with  the  threat  and  impact  of  climate 
change by 2015, as agreed in Durban. 
Fourthly, in the area of human rights, I fully agree 
with  the  comments  just  made  by  the  representative  of 
Brazil.  The  Human  Rights  Council  must  operate  in 
a  non-selective  and  constructive  manner,  especially 
through the universal periodic review, while maintaining 
the capacity to address situations of particular concern. 
In our view, human rights are most effectively ensured 
by dialogue and cooperation. Ethiopia is now prepared 
to  engage  directly  in  the  process  through  membership 
in  the  Human  Rights  Council,  for  which  we  seek  the 
support  of  the  United  Nations  membership  during  the 
election in November.
The  continuing  terrorist  attacks  remind  us  that 
terrorism remains one of the most serious threats to all 
States and peoples. No cause or grievance can justify an 
act of terrorism. The third biennial review of the United 
Nations  Global  Counter-Terrorism  Strategy  concluded 
in  June  with  an  agreement  to  develop  national  and 
regional  strategy  implementation  plans  that  enhance 
capacity-building  efforts,  including  the  Integrated 
Assistance  for  Countering  Terrorism  Initiative.  The 
General  Assembly  should  keep  up  the  momentum 
and  make  every  effort  to  reach  an  agreement  on  the 
comprehensive convention on international terrorism.
A/67/PV.22
I would like to conclude by thanking the Secretary-
General  and  the  staff  of  the  United  Nations  for  a  job 
well done, both at Headquarters and in the field.
Ms.  Díaz  Mendoza  (Bolivarian  Republic  of 
Venezuela) (spoke in Spanish): The Bolivarian Republic 
of  Venezuela  salutes  Secretary-General  Mr.  Ban 
Ki-moon  and  thanks  him  for  presenting  his  annual 
report on the work of the Organization (A/67/1) to the 
General Assembly.
The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  reaffirms 
its  commitment  to  peace,  justice,  solidarity  and 
development. We are convinced that the full realization 
of  those  objectives  requires  unrestricted  respect  for 
international law, in accordance with the purposes and 
principles of the Charter of the United Nations.
Throughout  its  history,  the  United  Nations  has 
recorded  important  achievements  in  the  area  of  the 
peaceful  settlement  of  disputes.  However,  its  record 
is  not  free  of  failures  or  limitations.  Those  can  be 
attributed to lack of agreement among Member States, 
especially  in  relation  to  the  actions  of  hegemonic 
Powers  that  have  tried  to  impose  their  agendas  to  the 
detriment  of  the  sovereignty,  self-determination  and 
collective interests of peoples and Governments that do 
not support neoliberalism and seek a life in the concert 
of the United Nations 
The  role  of  the  United  Nations  in  the  search  for 
peaceful settlements of disputes that affect international 
peace and security must be framed within the purposes 
and  principles  of  the  Charter  that  are  expressed  in 
non-interference  in  the  internal  affairs  of  States,  the 
sovereign equality of States, non-use of force or threat 
of  force  against  the  territorial  integrity  or  political 
independence of any State, and respect for sovereignty.
is 
fundamental 
The  creation  of  favourable  economic  and  social 
conditions 
to  settling  disputes, 
which  are  generated  by  poverty,  social  exclusion  and 
racism  —  powerful  breeding  grounds  for  crises  with 
repercussions  for  international  peace  and  security. 
But it is also evident that those countries where social 
justice  and  the  eradication  of  hunger  and  poverty  are 
taking  shape  or  are  progressively  prevailing  are  being 
harassed,  intimidated,  blasphemed  and  manipulated 
for not being examples of the injustices that capitalism 
creates with its brutal and neoliberal methods. That has 
been the case of the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela. 
12-53869
23
The  Bolivarian  Republic  of  Venezuela  condemns 
the  threat  of  or  use  of  force  to  resolve  disputes.  It 
A/67/PV.22
therefore  categorically  rejects  military  interventions 
carried  out  by  the  imperial  Powers  and  their  allies. 
Venezuela  is  concerned  about  the  role  of  the  Security 
Council with regard to the unilateral use of force under 
the  pretext  of  legitimate  defence  and,  more  recently, 
under the misnomer “responsibility to protect”, in clear 
violation of the purposes and principles of the Charter 
of the United Nations.
through 
imperial  Powers  and 
Syria,  as  was  Libya,  is  the  object  of  meddling 
the 
their  allies,  who 
by 
support  — 
training,  financing,  political 
support  and  weapons  —  armed  groups  that  have 
been  compromised  by  committing  acts  of  violence 
that  have  caused  the  deaths  of  thousands  of  civilians. 
The  Venezuelan  Government  highlights  the  need  to 
encourage dialogue between the parties to the conf lict 
and  reach  a  resolution  to  the  conf lict  that  is  agreed 
between  the  parties  themselves,  free  from  foreign 
interference. This will create a stable climate conducive 
to  the  strengthening  of  democracy  and  the  political 
reforms encouraged by President Al-Assad. 
The  new  global  reality  presents  new  challenges 
to  the  common  goal  of  building  a  new  international 
order  under  the  auspices  of  the  United  Nations  that 
is  multipolar,  fair  and  equitable  and  characterized  by 
consensual  and  inclusive  multilateralism.  Developing 
countries  find  themselves  facing  a  serious  social, 
economic  and  political  crisis  and  a  new  offensive 
on  the  part  of  imperial  Powers,  which  are  trying  to 
undermine the foundation of solidarity between peoples 
and  attempting  once  again  to  impose  their  strategic 
interests, undermining our aspirations to peace, justice, 
development,  solidarity  and  cooperation.  Humankind 
faces  a  complex  and  dynamic  situation  in  which  the 
political  and  economic  elites  of  the  world  refuse  to 
set aside their selfish, partial views at a time when the 
reality of issues that involve the destiny of peoples must 
be addressed in a comprehensive manner and in a spirit 
of dialogue and solidarity. 
The  economic  and  political  realities  of  our  times 
have demonstrated that the global crisis of capitalism is 
structural in nature and calls for a radical change in the 
unfair economic and financial order. The Bretton Woods 
institutions  have  failed,  as  evidenced  by  the  crisis  in 
Europe and other countries of the North. The situation 
calls for the building of a new financial architecture on 
the basis of inclusive multilateralism that expresses the 
interests of all the peoples of the world. 
We believe that the United Nations must promote a 
model of sustainable development based on such values 
as solidarity, justice, social inclusion, equality, respect 
for  human  rights  and  civic  participation.  There  must 
be respect for the diversity of systems and approaches. 
Each State has a sovereign right to implement these in 
order to achieve its objectives in terms of development, 
prosperity and the well-being of its people. In a world 
that is increasingly interrelated, this right is crucial in 
relations and cooperation among States in the pursuit of 
a peaceful, prosperous world. 
Venezuela  supports  initiatives  on  dialogue  and 
coexistence  between  civilizations  and  religions  as 
important  elements  to  support  international  efforts 
to  promote  dialogue  and  diversity  on  the  basis  of 
justice,  brotherhood  and  equality.  Such  efforts  must 
oppose  any  attempt  to  impose  monoculturalism  or 
specific  political,  economic,  social,  legal  or  cultural 
development  models;  instead,  they  should  promote 
dialogue  between  civilizations,  the  culture  of  peace 
and  interfaith  dialogues  that  will  contribute  to  peace, 
security, stability and development. 
We  also  support  the  promotion  of  a  culture  of 
peace  based  on  the  respect  for  the  sovereignty  and 
territorial  integrity  of  States,  non-interference  in  the 
internal affairs of States, the right to self-determination 
of  peoples  under  foreign  occupation  and  colonial 
domination,  the  prevention  of  violence,  the  promotion 
of  non-violence,  strict  adherence  to  the  principles 
of  international  relations  enshrined  in  the  United 
Nations  Charter,  and  the  full  exercise  of  the  right  to 
development. 
In  that  respect,  the  establishment  of  a  culture  of 
peace  in  the  world  is  unquestionably  related  to  the 
achievement  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals. 
At  least  2.5  billion  people  survive  on  less  than  €2  a 
day,  854  million  go  hungry,  144  million  children  of 
school  age  do  not  go  to  school,  11  million  children 
under 5 years of age die every year, 2.4 billion people 
have  no  access  to  safe  drinking  water,  and  3  million 
die  of  HIV/AIDS  every  year.  When  we  take  into 
account the impact of war and social conf licts in some 
areas  of  the  world  and  the  alarming  effects  of  climate 
change, f loods, earthquakes, forest fires and so on, it is 
impossible to speak of peace in the world. 
Reform  of  the  United  Nations,  especially  its  main 
organs,  is  a  pending  task  that  must  be  addressed  in 
order  to  strengthen  the  Organization.  The  General 
24 
12-53869
Assembly  must  be  revitalized  in  accordance  with  the 
functions  given  to  it  by  the  Charter  in  terms  of  peace 
and  security,  sustainable  development,  human  rights 
and  international  cooperation,  taking  its  democratic, 
representative  and  universal  nature  into  account.  We 
also believe that the Security Council must be reformed 
in  order  to  make  it  more  democratic,  transparent  and 
legitimate,  in  line  with  the  reality  of  current  times. 
The  anachronistic  right  of  veto  must  be  eliminated 
and  the  principle  of  the  sovereign  equality  of  States 
upheld.  Countries  of  the  developing  world  in  Africa, 
Latin  America  and  the  Caribbean  and  Asia  must  be 
added as new permanent members. The Economic and 
Social Council must fulfil its tasks as the main policy 
coordination body in the economic and social areas, in 
accordance with the tasks assigned to it by the Charter 
at its establishment.
The Acting President: I now call on the observer 
of the Observer State of the Holy See. 
(Holy  See):  As 
Archbishop  Chullikatt
the 
Secretary-General  notes  in  his  report  (A/67/1),  it  was 
70  years  ago  that  world  leaders  united  to  adopt  the 
purposes  and  principles  that  continue  to  guide  this 
institution.  These  principles  were  valid  then,  and 
they  remain  compelling  today.  While  the  succeeding 
years  since  the  founding  of  the  Organization  have 
seen progress in many areas of its mandate, still today 
too  many  long  for  a  world  free  of  war,  where  legal 
systems  are  just,  where  everyone’s  life  is  respected, 
protected and defended, where Governments and other 
institutions  affecting  the  international  order  are  held 
accountable,  and  where  basic  health  and  nutrition  are 
an expected right rather than an elusive dream.
The  United  Nations  continues  to  face  a  number 
of  additional  challenges  in  fulfilling  its  mandate,  but 
at  the  heart  of  these  challenges  is  the  need  to  foster 
trust  —  trust  between  nations,  trust  within  society, 
and  trust  that  those  in  positions  of  power  will  carry 
out their mandate in a way that promotes the common 
good for all of society rather than only to advance self-
seeking  interests.  Today,  this  trust  remains  elusive 
and, rather than working together to restore such trust, 
we  increasingly  see  major  decisions  on  issues  such 
as  international  security,  disarmament,  protection  of 
the  environment,  international  financial  governance, 
international 
trade,  population,  health  care,  food 
security  and  human  rights  being  made  in  venues  in 
which those in power can more easily dictate the terms 
of  the  agreement  rather  than  in  an  organization,  such 
A/67/PV.22
as the United Nations, where all States in the family of 
nations have a say in how best to achieve the common 
good. 
While  this  increasing  trend  makes  short-term 
agreements easier to achieve, it makes long-term global 
development,  peace  and  security,  and  the  other  noble 
responsibilities  of  the  United  Nations  more  difficult 
to  achieve.  It  is  therefore  imperative  that  all  actors, 
whether  they  be  States,  civil  society  organizations 
or  religious  institutions,  renew  their  commitment 
to  fostering  greater  trust  among  one  another  and 
recommit themselves to working together to address the 
challenges of our time so that the authentic objectives 
of this institution may be fulfilled.
As  the  Assembly  prepares  for  the  post-2015 
development  agenda,  the  Holy  See  looks  forward  to 
working  with  delegations  to  ensure  that  the  proposed 
sustainable development goals are capable of addressing 
the challenges of the world in a manner that places the 
human  person  at  the  centre  of  concern,  rather  than 
viewing the person as an obstacle to development. That 
model  must  recognize  that  the  aim  of  development  is 
not  simply  economic  growth,  but  a  true  growth  of  the 
entire human person in all its dimensions, including its 
intellectual, spiritual or physical development.
In  addition,  we  must  recognize  that  in  order  to 
foster  a  human-centred  development  model,  we  must 
work  to  ensure  that  this  labour  is  done  in  a  manner 
that  respects  the  relationship  between  humankind  and 
the  environment  and  our  role  as  responsible  stewards 
of  creation.  That  relationship  requires  recognition 
that  care  for  the  environment,  human  prosperity  and 
development  are  not  mutually  exclusive  concepts. 
Rather,  responsible  concern  for 
the  environment 
requires  recognition  that  all  members  of  society  have 
a  responsibility  to  be  good  stewards  of  our  planet  so 
that we can fulfil our accountability to each other and 
succeeding generations.
When human rights are not based on their natural 
moral  and  ethical  foundation,  they  can  become  a  tool 
not  for  the  liberation  of  peoples,  but  for  suppressing 
discussion  about  rights  and  what  they  constitute,  and 
the  promotion  of  so-called  human  rights  that  promote 
the  taking  of  life  itself.  That  tragic  consequence  can 
be  seen  in  many  regions  of  the  world  and  in  some 
organizations,  where  the  right  to  life  of  the  unborn  or 
the  lives  of  the  elderly  or  the  disabled  are  seen  not  as 
a  paramount  and  inviolable  right  to  be  safeguarded, 
but rather as a secondary right that must be subjugated 
12-53869
25
A/67/PV.22
to  other  so-called  human  rights  that  are  not  based  on 
the natural moral law. To respect the right to life from 
the  moment  of  conception  to  natural  death  is  not  an 
infringement of rights, but rather the fulfilment of our 
promise as leaders of nations to recognize the inherent 
dignity of all members of the human family, no matter 
how young, or how frail, or how helpless.
Likewise,  the  right  to  religious  freedom  remains 
elusive in many parts of the world. In many corners of 
the globe, the very practice or profession of one’s faith 
is deemed unwelcome, illegal or blasphemous. Even in 
the  great  democracies  of  the  world,  we  see  today  that 
this first freedom is under attack. The right to religious 
freedom  encompasses  not  only  the  right  to  hold  one’s 
faith  in  private,  but  also  the  freedom  to  preach,  to 
educate, to evangelize and to contribute to the political 
and  social  discourse  in  order  to  achieve  the  common 
good.  That  public  profession  of  an  individual’s  faith 
should not be seen as a danger to democratic governance 
or  as  a  violation  of  a  public  safety  that  requires 
limitation;  rather,  it  must  be  understood  and  accepted 
as a welcome addition to the debates that foster vibrant 
and healthy Governments and societies which claim or 
desire to be equal members of the international order.
Therefore,  it  is  imperative  that  leaders  of  this 
institution and its Member States make every effort to 
ensure that human rights are applied and interpreted in 
a  way  that  fosters  trust  within  society  and  within  this 
institution.  Efforts  to  radically  redefine  or  reinterpret 
human rights using a reductionist and relativist notion 
of humankind or by relying on ambiguous terminology 
will  lead  in  the  end  to  a  breakdown  in  trust  in  those 
bodies  mandated  to  upholding  human  rights.  Such 
attempts,  moreover,  foster  distrust  between  nations 
and  result  in  a  world  where  basic  human  rights  and 
fundamental  freedoms  are  challenged  rather  than 
protected. 
In order to respect those rights, the United Nations 
and its membership must work collectively to recommit 
themselves to the visions set out in the Charter and in 
the  Universal  Declaration  of  Human  Rights  so  as  to 
reaffirm the transcendent dignity of the human person, 
not  in  theory  or  as  a  secondary  factor,  but  rather  as 
the  foundation  upon  which  true  and  genuine  respect 
for  human  rights,  development  and  lasting  peace  and 
security can take root.
In conclusion, this institution was founded in large 
part  on  the  belief  that  fostering  greater  trust  between 
nations  will  lead  to  a  more  prosperous  and  peaceful 
world. Let us join in unambiguous concert to promote 
that  trust  so  that,  together,  we  will  fulfil  our  duty  to 
achieve the objectives for which this great Organization 
was established.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on this item. 
I  shall  now  give  the  f loor  to  those  representatives 
who  wish  to  speak  in  exercise  of  the  right  of  reply. 
May  I  remind  members  that  statements  in  exercise 
of  the  right  of  reply  are  limited  to  10  minutes  for  the 
first  intervention,  and  to  five  minutes  for  the  second 
intervention,  and  should  be  made  by  delegations  from 
their seats.
Mrs.  Khampa  (India):  I  am  taking  the  f loor  to 
exercise  India’s  right  of  reply.  The  representative  of 
Pakistan  has  regrettably  made  a  gratuitous  reference, 
totally out of context, to the state of Jammu and Kashmir, 
which is an integral part of India. Such remarks deserve 
to be rejected in their entirety.
Mr.  Tarar  (Pakistan):  With  reference  to  what 
we  have  heard  just  now,  I  think  “gratuitous”  is  a 
rather  favoured  word  with  the  Indian  delegation  and 
it  is  something  that  we  hear  every  time  Kashmir  is 
mentioned. Suffice it to say that vocabulary cannot be a 
substitute for truth. If that were the case, Noah Webster 
would be a prophet. I will just confine myself to giving 
the  advice  that  we  should  not  tackle  important,  long-
standing,  festering  issues  like  that  of  Kashmir  by  just 
trying to cast them aside with such casual remarks. 
Mrs.  Khampa  (India):  I  am  taking  the  f loor 
again to exercise our second right of reply in response 
to  the  untenable  references  made  once  again  by  the 
representative  of  Pakistan  about  the  Indian  state  of 
Jammu and Kashmir, which is and has always been an 
integral  part  of  India.  We  reject  those  remarks,  which 
have no place in this Assembly. 
Mr.  Tarar  (Pakistan):  Lest  repetition  create  the 
illusion of veracity, I would just like to draw the attention 
of the Assembly to the exchanges we have had with the 
Indian delegation previously on this subject during the 
ongoing  sixty-seventh  session  of  the  Assembly,  which 
would  bring  out  the  truth  of  the  matter.  Again,  I  do 
not  wish  to  further  dignify  these  mechanical  retorts 
on  an  issue  of  such  grave  international  importance, 
as  underlined  by  various  resolutions  of  the  Security 
Council, which remain unimplemented to this day.
26 
12-53869
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
General  Assembly  takes  note  of  the  report  of  the 
Secretary-General  on  the  work  of  the  Organization, 
contained in document A/67/1?
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  has  thus 
concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 
106.
The meeting rose at 12.50 p.m.
It was so decided.
A/67/PV.22
12-53869
27
