United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
13th plenary meeting
Thursday, 27 September 2012, 3 p.m.
New York
A/67/PV.13
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(Serbia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Touray 
(Sierra Leone), Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Address by Mr. Emanuel Mori, President and 
Head of Government of the Federated States 
of Micronesia
The Acting President: The Assembly will now hear 
an address by the President and Head of Government of 
the Federated States of Micronesia.
Mr.  Emanuel  Mori,  President  and  Head  of 
Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, 
was escorted into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Emanuel  Mori,  President 
and  Head  of  Government  of  the  Federated  States  of 
Micronesia, and to invite him to address the Assembly.
President  Mori:  I  wish  to  join  previous  speakers 
in  congratulating  the  new  President  of  the  General 
Assembly  and  in  commending  the  President  of  the 
Assembly  at  its  sixty-sixth  session  for  his  excellent 
leadership.  Allow  me  also  to  convey  my  deep  respect 
for  the  tireless  efforts  that  His  Excellency  Secretary-
General  Ban  Ki-moon  has  made  as  leader  of  the 
Secretariat and as a world statesman.
Today  our  world  continues  to  face  numerous 
arduous challenges that require an urgent and collective 
response.  Many  of  the  gravest  threats  to  the  States 
members of the Assembly, including mine, the Federated 
States of Micronesia, are simply beyond the abilities of 
our  individual  countries  to  single-handedly  address, 
even with our most aggressive and concentrated efforts. 
To  speak  before  this  body  today  is  an  honour  and  an 
opportunity that I must take to encourage international 
cooperation to help address those challenges.
The biggest challenge we face today in Micronesia 
continues to be climate change, not just the projections 
of future loss and damage, but the dangerous impacts 
that  my  people  are  experiencing  every  day.  Sadly, 
to  date  no  significant  progress  has  been  made  on 
climate-change  mitigation.  Time  and  again,  I  have 
asked,  “How  do  I  tell  my  people  that  their  plight  and 
their future lie in the hands of those most responsible 
for greenhouse gases?”
From  our  point  of  view,  we  must  step  up  our 
collective  efforts  to  confront  global  climate  change 
more  urgently  and  more  creatively.  What  is  needed 
now is to close the ambition gap. I therefore call on the 
major  emitters  to  step  up  their  level  of  commitment 
under the Kyoto Protocol. Our very existence depends 
on it. Without international cooperation and assistance, 
we are helpless against the adverse impacts of climate 
change.
Micronesia  has  barely  contributed  to  the  problem 
of climate change; it has, in fact, contributed to some of 
the solutions thereto. We actively participate in United 
Nations  Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change 
negotiations  and  continue  to  advocate  for  significant 
cuts in greenhouse-gas emissions.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-52343 (E)
*1252343*
A/67/PV.13
We  were  therefore  pleased  with  the  agreement 
reached this summer in Rio to begin cooperation on a 
global phase-down in the production and consumption of 
hydrof luorocarbons (HFCs). Micronesia first proposed 
amending  the  Montreal  Protocol  on  Substances  that 
Deplete  the  Ozone  Layer  in  2009.  Today  it  remains 
the  ideal  venue  for  a  phase-down  of  the  production 
and consumption of HFCs, just as has been done with 
respect  to  similar  gases  that  HFCs  were  invented  to 
replace.
To mitigate that situation, small island developing 
States adopted the Barbados Declaration on Achieving 
Sustainable Energy for All in Small Island Developing 
States,  which  has  become  an  annex  to  the  outcome 
document  of 
the  United  Nations  Conference  on 
Sustainable  Development,  adopted  last  June.  That 
is  a  concrete  expression  of  the  small  islands’  own 
determination  and  ambition  to  promote  renewable 
energy,  energy  efficiency,  energy  access  and  low-
carbon development.
To  the  rest  of  the  world,  the  map  may  look  fairly 
empty  on  our  side  of  the  globe,  but  to  all  of  us  it  is 
as much a homeland as any continental land mass. We 
must treat it accordingly, and we must defend it just as 
strongly.  And  therein  lies  our  second,  closely  related 
challenge:  the  change  in  our  ocean  environment.  That 
change includes not only rising tides and temperatures 
and ocean acidification, but also the damage caused by 
harmful  and  destructive  fishing  practices,  pollutants 
such as mercury and oil, and other waste resulting from 
unsustainable human activity. The abhorrent practice of 
illegal,  unreported  and  unregulated  fishing  continues 
unabated,  and  urgent  actions  to  reduce  by-catch,  fish 
discards and post-harvest losses must be taken.
For  us,  as  a  Pacific  small  island  developing  State, 
our  livelihood,  our  economy,  our  culture  and  our 
way  of  living  are  tied  to  a  blue  economy.  We  have 
recognized  that  the  conservation  and  sustainable  use 
of  the  ocean  and  its  resources  are  key  elements  in 
achieving sustainable development. We must fulfil our 
commitments made at Rio.
My  country  welcomes  the  decision  taken  in  Rio 
to hold a global conference on small island developing 
States in 2014. Micronesia fully supports that decision 
and reiterates its call to hold such a conference in one of 
the Pacific small island developing States.
The rising cost of global energy continues to pose 
a serious challenge to our socioeconomic development 
and sustainability. Small island developing States such 
as  Micronesia  continue  to  rely  heavily  on  imported 
fossil  fuel  despite  the  abundance  of  renewable  energy 
sources.  Our  unique  and  particular  vulnerabilities 
often translate into significantly higher costs for energy 
infrastructure  and  fossil  fuels.  As  a  consequence,  our 
Governments  spend  a  high  percentage  of  our  limited 
budgets  on  fossil-fuel  procurement  alone,  often  at  the 
expense of the other sectors of our economies.
transition 
However,  our 
to  renewable  energy 
requires financing and new, appropriate and affordable 
technology. To that end, I must recognize and commend 
the bilateral assistance already provided in that area by 
the  European  Union,  Japan,  China,  the  United  States, 
France, Italy and Turkey, as well as others that are also 
assisting  through  other  multilateral  arrangements.  We 
urge  other  partners  to  join  us  to  ensure  sustainability. 
We  also  urge  support  for  the  Secretary-General’s 
initiative on “Sustainable Energy for All”.
Our  health-care  system  is  increasingly  under 
stress and facing constant challenges from the growing 
burden  of  non-communicable  diseases,  which  has 
reached epidemic proportions in the Pacific. While we 
accept  that  the  primary  responsibility  for  health  rests 
with  our  Government,  we  are  seeking  assistance  from 
the  international  community  in  capacity-building, 
institutional  strengthening  and  policy  formulation. 
While we recognize the contributing effects of nutrition 
and lifestyle in that epidemic, we are also mindful of the 
fact that climate change has magnified the challenge as 
a  result  of  the  threat  it  poses  to  food  security  and  the 
traditional lifestyle of Micronesians.
The  Federated  States  of  Micronesia  supports  the 
greater  participation  of  women  in  social,  political 
and  economic  development.  We  look  to  development 
partners to enhance our investment in ensuring that the 
potential  of  women  is  nurtured  and  realized  through 
quality  education,  health-care  services  and  security 
measures against domestic and gender-based violence. 
It is only appropriate that measures to empower women 
to  be  true  participants  in  nation-building  should  be 
locally  driven.  We  have  embarked  on  mainstreaming 
women’s views, interests and contributions into national 
development  policies.  We  recognize  and  appreciate 
the  assistance  extended  by  the  United  Nations  system 
and  our  development  partners  to  support  our  national 
policies to enhance gender equality.
2 
12-52343
Turning to our Organization, the single most urgent 
need is to reform the Security Council. Naturally, such 
an important step must not be taken in haste. However, 
after more than a decade of talking, we should be close 
to  finding  an  acceptable  formulation.  Success  on  this 
issue  will  strengthen  the  Organization  and  stimulate 
and renew confidence in the Charter.
My  country  subscribes  to  the  principles  of  peace, 
security and prosperity, as enshrined in the Charter of 
the  United  Nations.  We  are  horrified  by  the  senseless 
killing  of  thousands  of  innocent  civilians  in  Syria. 
Over  the  past  two  weeks,  we  have  witnessed  surges 
in  violence.  We  join  the  international  community  in 
condemning  violence,  in  particular  the  attacks  on 
diplomatic missions, diplomats and personnel in Libya 
and  Egypt.  We  must  be  bold  in  our  actions  to  prevent 
such attacks. I call on Member States to continue their 
efforts  to  find  peaceful  solutions  to  these  conf licts, 
especially the most challenging ones.
The  United  Nations  has  the  unique  opportunity 
to  address  and  solve  the  many  challenges  facing  its 
weakest  and  most  vulnerable  States  Members.  The 
challenge lies in how the Organization and its most able 
Members  can  turn  their  many  ambitious  statements 
into  mobilizing  the  required  resources  to  successfully 
protect the citizens of the world.
We  in  the  Federated  States  of  Micronesia,  facing 
our  troubled  world,  continue  to  place  our  faith  in  the 
United Nations as we look towards future. Our isolation 
amid  the  vast  expanse  of  the  Pacific  Ocean  no  longer 
shields  us  from  the  threat  of  international  terrorism. 
Globalization  has  long  had  a  foothold  on  our  island 
State. Facebook links us to the world.
Allow me to end with a quote from my Constitution: 
“The  seas  bring  together,  they  do  not  separate  us  .... 
We  extend  to  all  nations  what  we  seek  from  each: 
peace, friendship, cooperation and love in our common 
humanity”.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  President  and  Head  of 
Government  of  the  Federated  States  of  Micronesia  for 
the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Emanuel  Mori,  President  and  Head  of 
Government of the Federated States of Micronesia, 
was escorted from the General Assembly Hall.
A/67/PV.13
Address by Mr. Mohamed Waheed, President of the 
Republic of Maldives
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Maldives.
Mr. Mohamed Waheed, President of the Republic of 
Maldives, was escorted into the General Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mohamed  Waheed, 
President of the Republic of Maldives, and to invite him 
to address the Assembly.
President  Waheed:  At  the  outset,  I  express  my 
delegation’s warmest congratulations to the President on 
assuming office to preside over the General Assembly 
at  its  sixty-seventh  session.  I  would  like  to  record  our 
deepest appreciation to his predecessor, His Excellency 
Mr. Nassir Abdulaziz Al-Nasser, for his untiring efforts 
in steering the deliberations of the sixty-sixth session to 
a successful conclusion.
I also wish to congratulate the Secretary-General, 
His Excellency Mr. Ban Ki-moon, for his extraordinary 
report (A/67/1) presented to the Assembly on Tuesday. 
Despite the many unprecedented challenges facing the 
United  Nations  today,  we  remain  confident  that  the 
Secretary-General’s  leadership  and  the  resolve  of  the 
Organization and of humankind will not waver.
I represent a small yet proud island nation that has 
long advocated for an effective international framework 
for  the  security  of  small  States,  that  has  vigorously 
campaigned for international actions to combat climate 
change  and  that  has  contributed  to  breaking  the 
international  silence  on  the  human  rights  implications 
of climate change.
I  come  from  a  nation  that  has  successfully  moved 
from an authoritarian system to a multiparty democratic 
system of governance — a historic transition achieved 
purely by peaceful means. That is why Maldivians show 
their  solidarity  with  people  everywhere  in  the  world 
who  struggle  to  replace  despotism  with  democracy. 
That  is  why  we  support  the  ongoing  democratization 
process in the Middle East and North Africa, and that 
is why we applaud Tunisia and Egypt for holding their 
first post-transition elections in a free and fair manner. 
12-52343
3
A/67/PV.13
While  the  democratization  processes  in  other 
countries in the region are on an upward trajectory, we 
see violence and human rights violations in Syria. We 
urge  the  Syrian  security  forces  and  anti-Government 
armed  groups  to  immediately  cease  all  hostilities  and 
violence. We welcome the latest findings of the United 
Nations  commission  of  inquiry  on  the  human  rights 
situation in Syria.
We  strongly  believe  that  tolerance  and  mutual 
respect  should  prevail  among  different  religions  and 
cultures  to  ensure  that  the  world  we  live  in  remains 
peaceful and harmonious for the future of our children. 
The Maldives strongly condemns the recent anti-Islamic 
video demeaning our Prophet Muhammad — peace be 
upon him. Freedom of expression should not be used as 
an  excuse  to  insult  religions,  incite  hatred  or  provoke 
communal  violence.  While  the  video  has  provoked 
demonstrations  around  the  world,  the  Maldives  does 
not believe that violence is the way to respond to such 
low-level blasphemous acts.
The  Maldives  has  also  condemned  the  attack  on 
the  United  States  Consulate  in  Benghazi,  which  took 
the life of the United States Ambassador to Libya. On 
behalf  of  the  Maldivian  people,  I  express  my  deepest 
condolences  to  the  United  States  Government  and  the 
families of the bereaved.
My  delegation  and  I  express  the  wishes  of  the 
Maldivian  people  to  see  the  day  that  the  Palestinian 
people  join  the  United  Nations  as  a  full  Member.  The 
Maldives strongly calls on all Member States to support 
the true aspirations of the Palestinian people and their 
right to self-determination in a Palestinian State.
In  June  we,  the  leaders  of  the  world,  agreed 
to  signal  our  solid  political  commitment  towards 
establishing sustainable development goals. We believe 
that  those  goals  would  further  strengthen  the  social, 
economic  and  environmental  well-being  of  nations. 
The  2015  development  agenda  should  recognize  the 
particular  characteristics  and  needs  of  small  States.  It 
should  support  the  creation  of  a  stronger  international 
architecture to achieve a sustainable future for all.
Climate  change  remains  the  most  important  and 
complex developmental challenge that small States face. 
We  face  the  threat  of  rising  sea  levels.  We  experience 
ocean  acidification,  changes  in  average  temperature 
and variable precipitation. Coastal erosion is a serious 
problem  in  the  Maldives,  affecting  more  than  113 
islands.  An  additional  120  islands  need  emergency 
water  during  the  dry  season.  The  Government  now 
spends more than 27 per cent of our national budget on 
building our resilience to combat the effects of climate 
change.
The  Maldives  reiterates  its  call  for  a  binding 
agreement to reduce global carbon emissions. The world 
cannot afford to wait any longer for such an agreement; 
nor can we. The absence of a global accord is no excuse 
for doing nothing. The Maldives is one of the smallest 
island  economies  in  the  world.  Our  contribution  to 
global emissions is 0.003 per cent, yet we are the most 
vulnerable  to  the  effects  of  climate  change.  For  that 
reason, we are also taking difficult and bold measures 
to  combat  climate  change.  We  were  among  the  first 
countries in the world to eradicate chlorof luorocarbons 
well  ahead  of  time.  We  intend  to  become  the  first  to 
eradicate hydrochlorof luorocarbons (HCFCs) by 2020. 
And  we  intend  to  become  the  first  to  ban  the  import 
of  HCFC-based  equipment.  A  number  of  our  islands 
are also scaling up renewable energy, not only to avoid 
spending  20  per  cent  of  our  gross  domestic  product 
on  importing  fossil  fuel,  but  also  to  reduce  harmful 
emissions.
Hence, we are converting to solar or hybrid sources. 
A  total  of  20  islands  in  the  Maldives  will  switch  to 
renewable energy sources for power by next year. Those 
measures  are  part  of  a  national  initiative  to  transform 
the  country’s  economy  into  a  low-carbon  one.  If  we 
can take those measures, why cannot the larger States, 
endowed with more resources, take stronger measures? 
That  requires  political  commitment  and  difficult 
choices. I therefore call upon carbon-emitting countries 
to  develop  and  utilize  clean  and  renewable  energy  to 
reduce their carbon footprint.
Climate  change  is  just  one  of  many  challenges 
faced  by  the  Maldives.  The  country’s  transition  to 
democracy,  which  has  reached  a  critical  point,  is 
another  pressing  challenge  that  we  are  determined  to 
overcome.  Four  years  ago,  the  Maldives  held  its  first 
competitive,  multiparty  presidential  elections.  That 
was  a  watershed  moment  in  the  country’s  long  march 
towards  democratic  governance.  Four  years  after 
that  historic  election,  in  October  2008,  people  in  the 
Maldives ask if their lives are any better. The answer, 
regrettably,  is,  not  yet.  Multiparty  democracy  in  the 
Maldives  has  so  far  been  deeply  divisive.  It  is  also 
polarizing,  tearing  apart  families  and  the  fabric  of  a 
small,  homogenous  society.  Political  leaders  elected 
to  office  by  popular  vote  chose  to  act  with  impunity. 
4 
12-52343
Centuries-old values of respect and tolerance have been 
replaced by intolerance and hatred in the islands where 
almost  everyone  literally  knows  everybody  else.  That 
is  not  because  there  is  any  inherent  deficiency  in  the 
democratic  form  of  governance;  rather,  it  is  because 
the road to liberal democracy is always rocky and long 
and must be navigated by a political leadership with an 
unshakeable  commitment  to  the  principles  and  values 
of democracy.
The  past  eight  months  have  been  particularly 
challenging  for  the  consolidation  of  democracy  in  my 
country. The elected President of the country resigned 
in February, and later claimed that he was forced to do 
so. The Government opened a commission of inquiry to 
investigate the allegations. Some of our friends rushed 
to  conclusions,  and  that  did  not  make  it  any  easier  for 
us.  Some  big  States  and  some  not  so  big  States  took 
sides  in  a  domestic  political  crisis  and  contributed  to 
making  a  bad  situation  worse.  While  the  Government 
was  striving  to  strengthen  the  country’s  institutional 
capacity 
the  new  democracy,  some 
international  actors  continued  to  publicly  criticize  the 
country’s young institutions.
to  manage 
We  look  for  new  ideas  and  are  receptive  to  good 
ones,  irrespective  of  where  they  come  from.  That 
is  why  we  engage  in  international  cooperation.  We 
expect  the  result  of  international  cooperation  to  help, 
not  hinder,  a  country’s  march  towards  a  better,  more 
democratic society. It is supposed to build a country’s 
institutions and to gain public confidence. International 
cooperation  should  not  be  used  to  undermine  national 
capacities. It should not be used as an excuse for larger 
countries  to  interfere  in  the  domestic  politics  of small 
States.
Small  States  are  vulnerable  in  many  ways.  We 
alone are not able to stop larger and stronger countries 
from dictating terms. Our vulnerability is particularly 
acute when there is discord and system breakdowns in 
our  countries.  This  is  the  time  when  the  larger  States 
should  help  the  smaller  States  in  the  international 
system. 
The  history  of  a  nation  is  never  a  single  event  or 
a  single  person.  The  life  of  our  nation  is  composed  of 
the lives of all of us who live there. We are the building 
blocks in the evolution of our countries. The knowledge, 
education,  experience  and  commitment  we  bring  to 
our nation are what shapes our history. They make our 
history  unique.  Respect  for  us  and  our  small  nation 
A/67/PV.13
requires  that  our  external  partners  not  underestimate 
our  capacity  to  contribute  to  the  shaping  of  our  own 
destiny.  Nations  must  be  allowed  to  resolve  their 
problems  on  their  own.  The  international  community 
should not take punitive actions against any sovereign 
State  unless  there  is  verifiable  and  blatant  abuse  of 
human rights.
Yet  I  believe  that  international  cooperation  can 
and  should  promote  positive  change  in  emerging 
democracies. I believe that international organizations 
such  as  the  United  Nations  can  play  a  pivotal  role  in 
strengthening democratic institutions in such nations. 
I  believe  that  some  of  the  advanced  democracies 
can  also  help  small  States  with  technical  expertise  in 
consolidating democracy. 
To do that, it is important to recognize the unique 
challenges  and  characteristics  of  small  States.  It  is 
important to protect the social fabric of the tightly knit 
societies  in  our  countries.  It  is  important  to  review 
current  approaches  and  modalities  for  extending 
international cooperation in the promotion of democracy. 
It  is  important  that  international  cooperation  not  be 
seen  to  be  promoting  a  particular  ideology.  It  should 
not  be  seen  to  be  taking  sides  in  domestic  politics. 
International cooperation should be seen to promote and 
encourage a home-grown democracy that is consistent 
with universally accepted values and principles.
Regular,  free  and  fair  elections  are  a  fundamental 
component  in  any  democracy.  Yet  holding  elections  is 
not,  by  itself,  a  sufficient  condition  for  consolidating 
democracy. It requires patience. It requires making hard 
choices  and  compromises.  And  it  requires  cultivating 
and  nurturing  democratic  values.  My  Government  is 
implementing  a  comprehensive  plan  to  nurture  such 
values in the Maldives. We are committed to creating an 
environment that guarantees individual freedom, where 
human  rights  are  fully  protected,  where  democratic 
values  f lourish  and  where  human  innovation  thrives. 
We  are  committed  to  creating  a  democratic  and  free 
society that is able to shape its own destiny.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  thank  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Maldives for the statement he has just made. 
Mr. Mohamed Waheed, President of the Republic of 
Maldives, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
12-52343
5
A/67/PV.13
Address by Mr. Luis Federico Franco Gómez, 
President of the Republic of Paraguay
The Acting President: The Assembly will hear an 
address by the President of the Republic of Paraguay. 
Mr.  Luis  Federico  Franco  Gómez,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Paraguay,  was  escorted  into  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Luis  Federico  Franco 
Gómez,  President  of  the  Republic  of  Paraguay,  and  to 
invite him to address the Assembly. 
President  Franco  Gómez  (spoke  in  Spanish):  At 
the opening of my statement in today’s general debate, 
allow  me  to  express  to  Mr.  Vuk  Jeremić,  President 
of  the  General  Assembly,  the  satisfaction  felt  by  the 
Republic  of  Paraguay  at  seeing  him  preside  over  the 
work  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh 
session. He can be assured of my delegation’s constant 
support  during  his  time  in  office.  Allow  me  also  to 
congratulate  Ambassador  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser 
for  his  important  and  effective  work  as  President  of 
the  General  Assembly  at  its  previous  session.  I  also 
extend  my  congratulations  to  Secretary-General  Ban 
Ki-moon for his commendable work during the past six 
years at the head of the Organization, during which he 
demonstrated his firm commitment to global peace and 
international security.
about 
adjustment  or 
In  relation  to  the  theme  of  the  general  debate, 
“Bringing 
settlement  of 
international disputes or situations by peaceful means”, 
the  Government  of  Paraguay  once  again  asserts  and 
confirms the importance of settling disputes by peaceful 
means  while  respecting  the  principles  of  international 
law.  Relations  between  States  would  be  fairer,  more 
supportive  and  more  equitable  were  they  governed  by 
full  compliance  with  international  law,  the  principles 
of  which  guide  and  direct  the  peaceful  settlement  of 
disputes.  In  my  country’s  view,  favouring  political 
expediency  over  treaty  commitments  is  unacceptable, 
because  political  considerations  can  never 
take 
precedence over formal international agreements.
On  this  first  and  last  time  that  I  will  address 
the  General  Assembly,  I  believe  it  is  necessary  and 
unavoidable to elucidate to the international community 
the  political  process  that  my  country  is  currently 
undergoing.  The  history  of  Paraguay  changed  on  the 
night of 22 June. The National Congress, exercising its 
constitutional  powers  —  and  I  would  like  to  publicly 
express my appreciation for the presence here today of 
the  Chief  Justice  of  the  Supreme  Court  of  Paraguay, 
senators and members of Parliament, the President of the 
Chamber of Deputies, and persons of various political 
stripes  —  decided  by  near-unanimity  to  remove  the 
then-President from office by means of an impeachment 
process established under the Constitution.
The Paraguayan Congress sought in that manner to 
put an end to a very serious political crisis that threatened 
the country, in which 17 fellow countrymen had already 
lost their lives, and to avoid further bloodshed and grief 
on Paraguayan soil. As mandated by the Constitution and 
owing  to  my  duty  as  Vice-President,  I  assumed  office 
as President of the Republic. Since then, in accordance 
with my oath of office, I have been governing Paraguay 
peacefully  and  democratically,  fully  respecting  public 
freedoms. The Government of Paraguay, along with the 
overwhelming  majority  of  Paraguayans,  takes  pride 
in  the  fact  that  there  are  no  political  prisoners  in  the 
country,  that  nobody  has  been  exiled,  that  freedom 
of  the  press  and  freedom  of  expression  are  fully 
guaranteed, and that each and every right enshrined in 
human rights agreements signed within the framework 
of the United Nations, as well as in the Organization of 
American States, is ensured.
Paraguay has normal diplomatic relations with the 
great  majority  of  the  States  Members  of  the  United 
Nations.  We  guarantee  to  all  of  them  that  Paraguay 
will continue to work tirelessly in favour of peace and 
security, the basic pillars of our Organization. 
Nonetheless,  Paraguay  finds  itself  in  a  difficult 
international  situation,  one  created  by  its  neighbours, 
the members of the Southern Common Market and the 
Union  of  South  American  Nations.  Both  entities  have 
adopted  sanctions  against  the  Republic  of  Paraguay 
without allowing it to exercise its right to defend itself, 
a  right  that  is  clearly  set  forth  in  the  international 
agreements  that  are  invoked  for  the  application  of 
sanctions.  In  violation  of  international  treaties,  those 
countries  have  attempted  to  become  the  custodians  of 
Paraguayan  democracy,  putting  aside  the  principle  of 
non-intervention enshrined in the Charter of the United 
Nations. 
Throughout  its  history,  Paraguay  has  repeatedly 
suffered  from  arrogant  interventions  in  its  internal 
affairs. 
6 
12-52343
A/67/PV.13
The holocaust brought on by the War of the Triple 
Alliance,  stemming  from  an  unjustifiable  coalition, 
has  still  not  faded  from  the  memory  of  my  people.  It 
decimated  my  country’s  population  and  destroyed  its 
economy.
In the short period that my Government has served, 
our critics have been unable to find a single violation of 
the agreements that I have mentioned. The great Justo 
Pastor Benítez, a famous Paraguayan politician, rightly 
maintained that it is dangerous to be right where there 
is no justice.
when  the  United  Nations  was  conceived.  Moreover,  it 
faces  a  shifting  dynamic  in  the  international  picture 
that was impossible to envision at its inception.
That  is  why  Paraguay  calls  on  the  international 
community to strive towards the wonderful international 
utopia  of  a  universal  Organization  governed  by  the 
strong  and  the  weak,  the  large  and  the  small,  and  the 
rich and the poor, all equal in a great world Assembly. 
Paraguay believes that it is necessary to insist that the 
reform  process  include  the  gradual  elimination  of  the 
veto power.
Before  humankind’s  highest  Assembly,  I  clearly 
state  that  Paraguay  will  never  accept  interference  in 
its internal affairs by foreign Powers. We will continue 
to build our democracy in accordance with the will of 
the Paraguayan people, and fully implement it through 
our  freely  elected  institutions.  We  are  certain  that 
we  know  how  to  get  through  this  crucial  period  with 
dignity  and  integrity.  We  will  not  be  subjugated.  We 
call on members to ref lect and work together to find the 
path  towards  rebuilding  South  American  integration, 
which is currently compromised. Peace is built through 
dialogue, to which we are open.
This  year,  on  the  twentieth  anniversary  of  the 
historic United Nations Conference on Environment and 
Development, held in Rio de Janeiro in 1992 and known 
as  the  Earth  Summit,  we  believe  that  it  is  necessary 
to  reaffirm  the  belief  that  sustainable  development 
and  its  economic,  social  and  environmental  aspects 
must be the linchpin of the United Nations focus. The 
Republic  of  Paraguay  therefore  reaffirms  its  belief 
in  that  goal  and  in  the  need  to  maintain  the  balance 
between  economic  development,  social  development 
and environmental protection as interdependent pillars 
of human development.
Those who today wish to become leading actors in 
the international community will have to acknowledge 
that  that  is  not  possible  without  regional  unity. 
Leadership  is  built  through  respect  for  international 
law. That is the only way that we will have a common 
position  on  Security  Council  reform,  which  is  a  long-
standing wish of the universal institution that embraces 
us.
times  for 
the 
In  such  difficult 
international 
community,  we  will  find  solutions  to  our  current 
political  and  economic  difficulties  only  by  putting 
international  institutions  on  the  path  for  which  they 
were established, namely, to serve the women and men 
that  build  humankind’s  future  day  by  day.  Paraguay, 
a  founding  member  of  the  Organization,  remains 
committed to that.
The various events in different parts of our planet 
this  past  year  demonstrate  the  relevance  and  true 
validity  of  a  forum  such  as  the  United  Nations  in  the 
international arena. That is why there is an urgent need 
for the courageous, innovative and profound reform of 
its organs, structure and functions. Changes are needed 
to  adapt  the  Organization  so  that  it  can  respond  with 
greater  effectiveness  and  agility  to  an  international 
agenda  that  is  very  different  from  that  which  existed 
As the world’s largest producer per capita of clean 
renewable  hydroelectric  energy,  which  drives  our 
economy  and  its  industrialization,  we  will  use  that 
energy for the country’s development for the benefit of 
the  Paraguayans  and  foreigners  who  inhabit  our  land 
and  shape  its  future.  That  energy,  which  we  will  use 
little by little, will be another driver of our well-being.
The  issue  of  landlocked  developing  countries 
(LLDCs)  is  an  important  aspect  of  Paraguay’s  foreign 
policy.  The  asymmetry  and  disadvantages  of  our 
geographical  position  have  caused  and  continue  to 
cause  a  huge  problem  that  can  be  offset  only  through 
international recognition and special and differentiated 
treatment on the part of the developed economies that 
seeks to include Paraguay in the globalized world.
In that regard, on 12 September, during the recent 
fourth  Meeting  of  Trade  Ministers  of  Landlocked 
Developing  Countries,  a  group  that  Paraguay  had  the 
honour  of  chairing  during  the  biennium  2010-2011, 
the  need  for  transit  States,  in  the  first  place,  and  the 
international community, as a whole, to duly recognize 
the  comparative  disadvantages  of  our  countries  in 
relation to the conditions needed for their development 
was underscored.
12-52343
7
A/67/PV.13
Paraguay wishes to reiterate here its commitment to 
international peace and security. In the specific context 
of  United  Nations  peacekeeping  operations,  it  affirms 
its  political  willingness 
to  continue  contributing 
human  resources  to  such  operations.  Regionally,  we 
highlight  the  progress  achieved  by  the  United  Nations 
Stabilization Mission in Haiti (MINUSTAH). Paraguay 
increased  its  deployment  to  MINUSTAH  by  more 
than  100  troops  to  show  its  firm  commitment  to  the 
reconstruction  of  a  brother  country  devastated  by  the 
scourges of nature.
I  would  also  like  to  underscore  the  effort  and 
commitment  of  the  Paraguayan  military  observers  in 
the  increasingly  difficult  situation  in  the  Syrian  Arab 
Republic, where they have remained, even in the most 
difficult  circumstances.  I  take  this  opportunity  to  pay 
tribute  to  those  soldiers  who  perform  their  duties,  in 
many parts of the world, with dedication, hard work and 
sacrifice  in  the  service  of  the  United  Nations.  Today, 
we  must  all  also  remember  the  obligation  of  Member 
States to protect and defend the security of diplomatic 
and consular premises in all countries. 
Paraguay  is  increasingly  concerned  about  the 
growth  in  transnational  organized  crime  in  its  worst 
manifestations, namely, drug trafficking on a large and a 
small scale, arms trafficking and trafficking in migrants 
and  in  persons,  among  others.  Those  transnational 
crimes stem mainly the social and economic inequality 
of  our  peoples.  Joint  international  efforts  are  needed, 
therefore, in order to fight such scourges head on. The 
Government  of  Paraguay  reaffirms  its  unequivocal 
commitment  to  the  fight  against  all  activities  of 
criminal organizations and calls for a stronger position 
on  the  part  of  developed  countries,  where  most  of  the 
demand associated with those crimes originates.
Paraguay  also  reaffirms  its  strong  condemnation 
of  terrorism  in  all  its  forms  and  manifestations.  For 
that  reason,  Paraguay,  through  its  Secretariat  for  the 
Prevention of the Laundering of Money and Goods and 
in  close  cooperation  with  other  national  institutions, 
has  made  a  coordinated  effort  to  bring  its  legal  and 
normative framework in line with its commitments and 
with  the  recommendations  made  by  the  international 
organizations charged with preventing and prosecuting 
crimes  related  to  money  laundering  and  the  financing 
of  terrorism.  Laws  and  resolutions  have  been  passed 
pursuant  to  the  recommendations  of  the  Financial 
Action  Task  Force  on  Money  Laundering  (FATF).  In 
February 2012, Paraguay was removed from the FATF 
grey list and is now, as a result of our efforts, included 
on  the  white  list,  a  fact  that  we  are  proud  of,  as  a 
member of our region and in line with our commitment 
to the fight against money-laundering and the financing 
of terrorism.
Promoting  and  building  awareness  of,  and  full 
respect  for,  human  rights  worldwide  must  continue 
to  be  one  of  the  unchanging  and  incontrovertible 
commitments  on  our  Organization’s 
international 
agenda.  Human  rights  violations  are  a  scourge  that 
must forever be eradicated from our civilization.
The  Government  of  Paraguay  reiterates  that  the 
growth of nations can be achieved only through social 
equality, by prioritizing basic needs such as education, 
health  and 
land  reform.  Growth  without  social 
development  will  only  result  in  a  world  that  is  more 
unequal and unjust.
The Paraguayan Government is actively working to 
build a development model that gives priority to decent 
work.  In  that  regard  we  are  promoting  mechanisms 
within  the  framework  of  a  State  policy  aimed  at 
improving  working  conditions.  They  include,  first, 
the  creation  of  a  Ministry  of  Labour,  Employment 
and  Social  Security;  secondly,  the  ratification  of 
the  Domestic  Workers  Convention  No.189  of  the 
International Labour Organization, adopted in 2011 by 
the International Labour Conference in order to improve 
the  working  conditions  of  thousands  of  domestic 
workers  in  Paraguay;  and  thirdly,  the  implementation 
of  an  employment  policy  for  young  people  through 
a  bill  aimed  at  enabling  young  people  to  enter  the 
workforce,  which  has  been  partially  approved  by  the 
National Congress.
Since its beginning, my Government has maintained 
its  belief  in  and  commitment  to  making  inexorable 
progress  towards  equal  opportunities  and  rights  for 
all  of  Paraguay’s  inhabitants.  In  that  regard,  we  have 
never  faltered  in  the  constant  struggle  for  full  social, 
economic,  political  and  cultural  rights  for  women.  As 
evidence  of  those  firm  beliefs,  soon  after  assuming 
its  duties,  my  Government  decided  to  upgrade  the 
Secretariat for Women’s Issues to an executive ministry, 
in  accordance  with  United  Nations  recommendations. 
Finally, in that respect, I must mention our satisfaction 
with, and full commitment to, Paraguay’s election for a 
new term as member of the Commission on the Status 
of Women for 2013-2017.
8 
12-52343
A/67/PV.13
The  Government  of  Paraguay,  which  I  have 
proudly  led  since  the  end  of  June,  now  has  a  historic 
democratic obligation to organize the general elections 
scheduled for 21 April 2013 and to guarantee that they 
are peaceful, transparent and exemplary. When the next 
President takes office, on 15 August 2013, the soundness 
of  Paraguayan  democracy  will  be  confirmed.  At  that 
time  I  will  look  into  the  eyes  of  my  countrymen  and 
those  of  foreigners  who  live  in  our  country  and  shape 
our future alongside us and will be able to say: mission 
accomplished. I ask God and the Virgin to help us and 
to  bless  us  so  that  all  Paraguayans  together  can  move 
towards the future that we want. 
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I wish to thank the President of the Republic 
of Paraguay for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Luis  Federico  Franco  Gómez,  President  of 
the  Republic  of  Paraguay,  was  escorted  from  the 
General Assembly Hall. 
Address by Mr. Bujar Nishani, President of the 
Republic of Albania
The Acting President: The General Assembly will 
now  hear  an  address  by  the  President  of  the  Republic 
of Albania.
Mr.  Bujar  Nishani,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Albania,  was  escorted  into  the  General  Assembly 
Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I have the honour to welcome to the United 
Nations His Excellency Mr. Bujar Nishani, President of 
the  Republic  of  Albania,  and  to  invite  him  to  address 
the Assembly. 
President  Nishani:  We  gather  here  every  year  to 
share  our  analysis,  our  views  and  comments  on  the 
course of world events. We also take this opportunity to 
share our concerns and to meet, interact and try to offer 
our  best  commitment  to  finding  appropriate  solutions 
to current and future challenges. 
A  year  has  passed  since  the  last  session,  and  the 
world  has  continued  to  change.  Development  and 
economic  growth  in  many  countries  have  raised 
hundreds  of  millions  of  people  above  the  poverty 
line. Societies throughout the world are taking a stand 
today, demanding more rights and asking for effective 
political  participation.  Democracy,  human  rights  and 
increased participation by women in public and social 
life have all globally improved. Despite unprecedented 
global  awareness,  climate  change  remains  a  major 
source of concern. The continuing deterioration of the 
global  economic  climate  is  also  a  permanent  source 
of  anxiety  everywhere.  Threats  to  peace  and  security 
in  various  parts  of  the  world  show  how  far  we  still 
are  from  achieving  the  global  security  we  want.  It  is 
therefore  only  fair  that  we  expect  the  United  Nations, 
the  Organization  we  have  placed  at  the  centre  of  our 
international  architecture,  to  be  more  responsive, 
efficient, effective and transparent.
This  year  Albania  celebrates  the  one  hundredth 
anniversary  of  its  independence.  As  we  mark  that 
important  date  and  survey  our  history  for  the  past  10 
decades, we note with satisfaction that for more than half 
of that time the State of Albania has enjoyed successful 
cooperation  and  active  participation  in  the  life  of  the 
United  Nations.  Our  commitment  has  grown  over  the 
years and has embraced almost every aspect of United 
Nations activity, including peacekeeping operations. In 
recent years we have devoted particular attention to the 
ongoing  efforts  to  reform  the  Organization’s  system. 
As  that  system  has  developed  and  its  activities  have 
become more complex, the need for greater coherence 
and efficiency within the Organization as a whole has 
grown pressing. That is particularly evident in the area 
of United Nations development assistance.
In  June,  as  one  of  the  pilot  countries  for  the 
Delivering as One approach, we hosted the fifth High-
level  Intergovernmental  Conference  on  Delivering 
as  One.  The  Tirana  Conference  adopted  an  outcome 
document  with  concrete  and,  we  hope,  valuable 
recommendations  in  the  light  of  the  approaching 
quadrennial  comprehensive  policy  review.  We  know 
now that what started as a test idea has come a long way 
in a relatively short time. A growing number of countries 
are  looking  more  clearly  and  closely  at  the  benefits 
of  seeing  the  United  Nations  operate  and  implement 
its  assistance  programmes  with  more  coherence  and 
efficiency.  Delivering  as  One  has  convincingly  shown 
in practice how the operational activities of the United 
Nations  can  be  delivered  with  greater  efficiency  and 
how the system can do more and better and more with 
less in its efforts to help countries reach nationally and 
internationally agreed development goals.
I  am  proud  to  represent  a  country  and  society 
widely known for their broadmindedness, tolerance and 
acceptance of others. Albanians are probably unique to 
our region in that, despite having endured centuries of 
12-52343
9
A/67/PV.13
difficulties  in  our  history,  we  have  always  preserved 
and  cherished  the  values  of  freedom  and  respect  for 
the  other  that  are  fundamental  to  the  modern  concept 
of  human  rights.  Albanians’  respect  for  one  another’s 
rights and individuality is expressed first and foremost 
in  an  exemplary  religious  harmony.  They  have  shown 
an  outstanding  acceptance  of,  and  respect  for,  other 
cultures, ethnicities and civilizations, and have devoted 
special  care  and  attention  to  those  who  have  come 
seeking safe refuge from the horrors of war. Albanians 
have  risked  their  own  lives  and  far  outspent  their 
economic capacity in order to rescue and save those in 
need who came knocking at their door.
It  is  against  that  backdrop  that  Albania  remains 
a  strong  believer  in  dialogue  among  civilizations  and 
continues to engage actively in bridging the differences 
among  the  wider  membership  on  issues  pertaining  to 
the  human  rights  agenda.  That  is  why  Albania,  which 
currently presides over the Council of Europe, has chosen 
“United in diversity” as its theme. The dialogue among 
different  cultures  and  civilizations  should  be  seen  as 
an ongoing process requiring dedication, goodwill and 
care. We cannot allow the sporadic reckless actions of 
disruptive groups to prevent us from making a genuine 
effort to reach a better understanding of one another in 
a world that is becoming more globalized every day.
Although we were saddened and embittered by the 
worthless video that deliberately targets what Muslims 
everywhere  consider  sacred,  Albanians,  Muslims  and 
Christians  alike  have  expressed  their  indignation  by 
simply  ignoring  such  nonsense.  We  regret  that  the 
reaction to it in some parts of the world was different, 
used  instead  to  fuel  blind  violence  by  angry,  hopeless 
crowds,  with  fatal  consequences.  We  must  be  clear: 
any  form  of  terrorism  or  extremist  act  on  the  part  of 
isolated,  malevolent  groups  should  never  be  confused 
with  the  position  or  identified  with  the  attitude  of  an 
entire  society  or  Government.  No  legitimate  anger 
can excuse illegitimate violent acts that Governments, 
societies  and  political  and  religious  leaders  should 
firmly  oppose.  We  condemn  with  indignation  the 
terrorist  act  against  American  Consulate  staff  and 
premises  in  Libya  and  demand  that  the  perpetrators 
be  punished.  We  also  condemn  any  act  of  violent 
protest  against  the  Western  embassies,  whose  mission 
it is to promote understanding and cooperation among 
countries and nations.
With  a  foreign  policy  based  on  peace  and  good 
relations  with  all  nations,  its  modest  but  important 
to 
contribution 
international  missions  aimed  at 
safeguarding peace and human rights through a policy 
of good neighbourliness, as well as its efforts to play a 
moderate  and  constructive  role  in  the  region,  Albania 
has become a direct contributor to stability and security 
on the regional and global levels. We are determined to 
maintain and further build on that record.
Today,  Albania  participates 
in  peacekeeping 
missions in several international operations within the 
framework  of  the  United  Nations  and  other  regional 
security  organizations, 
in  Afghanistan, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Iraq  and  more.  My  country 
acknowledges and supports every effort towards global 
peace  and  security  and  will  continue  to  support  the 
efforts of the United Nations, NATO and other actors to 
promote peace, stability and security around the world.
including 
Global peace and security continue to be challenged 
by tyranny and oppression in various parts of the world. 
We reiterate our strong condemnation of the ferocious 
repression of the freedom-loving people of Syria, whose 
blood  is  being  shed  through  the  primitive  attacks  on 
the  part  of  a  regime  that  has  irretrievably  forfeited  its 
legitimate right to lead and represent the Syrian people. 
Let me join all those calling on the Security Council to 
step  up  and  comply  with  its  duty,  as  mandated  in  the 
United Nations Charter, to preserve peace and security. 
It  is  hard  to  believe  that  one  can  remain  indifferent 
to  events  such  as  the  terrible  ones  that  have  been 
unfolding every day in Syria for a year and a half, with 
tens of thousands of human losses and the widespread, 
deliberate  destruction  and  suffering  that  have  already 
set the country back by decades.
Have  we  not  already  learned  the  hard  lessons  of 
similar  mistakes  in  the  past  tragedies  in  Rwanda  and 
Bosnia?
Albania  fully  supports  the  peace  process  between 
Palestine  and  Israel.  Albania  reiterates  its  position 
in  support  of  the  two-State  solution:  a  secure  State 
of  Israel  and  a  viable  State  of  Palestine,  living  side 
by  side  with  each  other  in  accordance  with  United 
Nations  resolutions  and  the  road  map.  The  peoples  of 
both  Palestine  and  Israel  are  exhausted  by  that  never-
ending  conf lict,  and  their  leaders  should  shoulder 
the  responsibility  of  undertaking  a  legitimate  quest 
for  freedom  and  peace,  with  long-term  vision  and 
goodwill,  and  against  extremists.  The  world  longs  to 
see  the  peace  process  in  the  Middle  East  shift  from  a 
10 
12-52343
pattern of stagnation and become an inspiring example 
of difficult yet indispensable compromises.
Albania  remains  deeply  worried  by  the  Iranian 
nuclear  programme,  which  continues  to  raise  serious 
questions as to its nature instead of providing answers 
and  guarantees,  as  requested  over  the  years.  We  must 
prevent Iran from becoming a nuclear threat.
In November this year, my country will celebrate the 
centenary of its independence. We will commemorate a 
century that saw a diversity of events, which were not 
always among the happiest ones.
Many  have  described  the  Albanian  people  as 
survivors  of  harsh  chapters  of  history.  They  are  not 
wrong:  the  Albanian  people  have  suffered  unwanted 
wars,  forced  movement  from  their  lands,  assaults  and 
attempts  to  annihilate  them,  unjust  partitions  and, 
during the second half of the twentieth century, bravely 
resisted five decades of communism. All this has come 
at a stiff price. Today we look to the future with hope, 
in  a  spirit  of  deliverance,  and  with  strong  confidence 
that the coming century will be marked by continuous 
peace, economic progress, and cultural and intellectual 
revitalization.
Our  region,  which  was  once  a  troubled  hotspot 
and  a  sick  area  of  Europe,  has  been  profoundly  and 
positively transformed. Six new States have been born 
out  of  the  former  Yugoslavia  in  the  course  of  the  past 
two decades.
We  all  know  that  it  has  not  been  easy,  and  we  all 
know  why.  But  what  matters  most  is  that  everywhere 
in  the  region  societies  have  evolved,  the  ghosts  of  the 
past have ceded their place to new realities, and people, 
in particular the young generation, are more than ever 
turned towards the future.
Let me point out here that the establishment of the 
independent State of Kosovo five years ago has become 
an important factor of peace and stability in the South-
east  European  region.  It  has  become  stronger  and 
overcome  all  kinds  of  obstacles  created  by  those  who 
still  cannot  accept  reality  and  face  the  truth.  As  time 
passes,  independent  Kosovo  is  being  recognized  and 
accepted by an increasing number of States — close to 
half of the States Members of the United Nations.
The  advisory  opinion  of  the  International  Court 
of  Justice  on  Kosovo  (see  A/64/881),  rendered  in  2010 
upon  specific  request  from  Serbia,  clearly  ruled  that 
the  independence  of  Kosovo  was  in  conformity  with 
A/67/PV.13
the international law. Just a few days ago, the Republic 
of Kosovo reached another level of State consolidation 
with  the  end  of  the  phase  of  independence  supervised 
by the international community.
I 
take 
to  congratulate 
this  opportunity 
the 
authorities  of  Kosovo  on  their  continued  progress  in 
building  and  strengthening  a  democratic  State  and  a 
multi-ethnic  society,  and  I  call  on  all  those  countries 
that  have  not  yet  recognized  Kosovo  to  consider  a 
review  and  assessment  of  that  irreversible  reality  in 
the South-eastern European region. The recognition of 
Kosovo is an act of justice for a people that has suffered 
for too long, and represents a net contribution to peace 
and stability in the Balkans.
We  have  already  heard,  and  we  are  prepared  to 
listen once again to the same old redundant arguments 
from Serbia regarding Kosovo. What war failed to do, 
propaganda  will  not  achieve  either.  While  Serbia’s 
leaders speak of partition and the redrawing of borders, 
and  while  they  make  troubling  statements  denying 
genocide in Srebrenica, one is right to ask whether the 
past continues to loom over the present there, obscuring 
reality and distorting their vision of the future.
Albania  has  maintained  strong  positive  economic 
growth  despite  the  impact  of  the  global  financial 
and  economic  crisis.  The  pursuit  of  macroprudential 
policies and well-anchored structural reforms focusing 
on privatization, fiscal probity, trade liberalization, the 
business  climate  and  the  energy  and  financial  sectors 
have  enabled  Albania’s  economy  to  become  the  most 
resilient of the economies of South-east Europe. During 
the period from 2007 to 2012, average economic growth 
has  been  5  per  cent  of  gross  domestic  product  (GDP), 
peaking in 2008 at 8 per cent of GDP. 
Since  2008,  Albania  has  had  a  f lat  tax  of  10  per 
cent;  corporate  tax  has  decreased  from  25  per  cent  to 
10  per  cent;  personal  income  tax  has  dropped  from 
23  per  cent  to  10  per  cent;  and  dozens  of  fees  have 
simply been eliminated. 
The  Global  Competitiveness  Report  2011-2012, 
published  by  the  World  Economic  Forum,  ranks 
Albania seventy-eighth out of 142 countries/economies. 
The  World  Bank  report  Doing  Business  2012:  Doing 
Business  in  a  More  Transparent  World  ranks  Albania 
eighty-second  out  of  183  economies  in  terms  of  ease 
of  doing  business.  In  the  areas  of  getting  credit  and 
of  protecting  investors,  Albania  ranks  twenty-fourth 
12-52343
11
A/67/PV.13
and  sixteenth,  respectively,  putting  it  among  the  top 
reformer countries.
On  our  road  towards  sustained  development, 
progress  and  prosperity,  we  remain  fully  engaged  and 
committed  to  carrying  out  all  reforms  and  taking  all 
of  the  measures  required  to  continue  successfully  on 
the path to European Union integration. This is not an 
alternative  but  a  long-term  choice  carefully  pursued 
over the years, and we are determined to make it happen.
In  the  weeks  ahead,  we  expect  a  favourable 
decision  by  the  Council  of  Ministers  of  the  European 
Union  on  our  bid  for  the  status  of  candidate  country 
to the European Union. That merit-based decision will 
constitute  another  milestone  in  Albania’s  journey  to 
European  integration  and  will place  our  commitments 
and our responsibilities at a higher stage of the process.
In  conclusion,  let  me  assure  the  Assembly  that 
Albania remains committed to international cooperation 
and is determined to continue to offer its contribution to 
advancing peace, freedom and security, and respect for 
human  rights,  fighting  poverty,  promoting  sustainable 
development  and  prosperity,  and,  last  but  not  least, 
protecting the environment.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  thank  the  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Albania for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Bujar  Nishani,  President  of  the  Republic  of 
Albania, was escorted from the General Assembly 
Hall.
Address by Mr. Mohamed Yousef El-Magariaf, 
President of the General National Congress 
of Libya
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the President of the General National 
Congress of Libya.
Mr. Mohamed Yousef El-Magariaf, President of the 
General National Congress of Libya, was escorted 
into the General Assembly Hall.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  have  the  honour  to  welcome  to  the 
United  Nations  His  Excellency  Mr.  Mohamed  Yousef 
El-Magariaf,  President  of 
the  General  National 
Congress  of  Libya,  and  to  invite  him  to  address  the 
Assembly.
President  El-Magariaf  (spoke  in  Arabic;  English 
text  provided  by  the  delegation):  At  the  outset,  I  am 
pleased to congratulate Mr. Vuk Jeremić on his election 
as  President  of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-
seventh  session.  I  would  like  to  commend  Mr.  Nassir 
Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser  for  his  leadership  as  President 
at  the  sixty-sixth  session.  I  also  wish  to  express  our 
profound gratitude and appreciation to His Excellency 
Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon for his valuable efforts 
to achieve the purposes and principles of the Charter of 
the United Nations.
Three years ago, a despot who ruled my country for 
42 years with tyranny and oppression stood at this very 
rostrum and tore up a copy of the Charter, saying that he 
did not recognize the authority of the document. Today, 
I  am  standing  on  the  very  same  rostrum  to  assure  the 
Assembly  of  my  delegation’s  support  and  respect  for 
the Charter.
Today, I stand before the Assembly and the whole 
world  to  apologize  for  all  the  harm  and  the  crimes 
committed  by  that  despot  against  so  many  innocent 
people,  as  well  as  to  apologize  for  the  extortion  and 
terrorism  he  inf licted  on  so  many  States.  I  want  to 
assure  the  Organization  that  the  Libyan  people  are 
determined to build a State that respects its neighbours, 
its international obligations and human rights, and that 
believes  that  genuine  peace  in  the  world  will  not  be 
realized  unless  the  conscience  of  every  individual  is 
brimming with peace. Libya will be a land of peace and 
security and a strong force for peace.
I  am  speaking  today  before  this  international 
gathering  to  convey  the  greetings  of  the  Libyan 
people,  whose  revolt  on  17  February  2011  turned  into 
a  comprehensive,  explosive  revolution  that  shook  the 
very foundations of the regime of the despot Muammar 
Al-Qadhafi,  who  declared  that  he  would  burn  and 
destroy  Libya  and  make  it  swim  in  a  sea  of  blood.  He 
killed  thousands  of  civilians,  recruited  mercenaries 
from everywhere, assaulted peoples’ honour, ordered his 
militias and mercenaries to rape minors, and destroyed 
cities. However, our people did not kneel; they did not 
back down. Thousands of martyrs were lost among the 
wounded and missing. The price of freedom was paid in 
blood, lives, amputated limbs and lost youth.
In  this  forum,  on  behalf  of  the  Libyan  people,  I 
salute  the  United  Nations  system,  which  stood  with  our 
people, with the will of freedom against blood lust and 
annihilation, and adopted Security Council resolutions 
12 
12-52343
A/67/PV.13
1970  (2011)  and  1973  (2011)  to  protect  the  innocent 
people  in  Libya  from  crimes  against  humanity  and 
violations of human rights.
I  stand  before  the  Assembly  today  representing 
the  Libyan  people,  who  are  building  the  institutions 
of  democracy  after  the  fall  of  dictatorship.  The  whole 
world has witnessed the first free, transparent elections 
in  Libya,  when  the  General  National  Congress  was 
elected and I was honoured to be elected as its President. 
The  world,  through  the  United  Nations,  has  given  us 
complete, genuine support for that achievement.
In  our  revolution  of  freedom  and  in  the  challenge 
of establishing democracy, the conscience of the world 
was with us, both in deeds and in thoughts. Support was 
offered from everybody and from everywhere.
Among those offering help was Ambassador Chris 
Stevens,  a  voice  of  reason  and  conscience,  a  man  of 
love and a messenger of friendship, who came to Libya 
after  the  outbreak  of  the  revolution  for  freedom.  He 
touched  people’s  emotions  in  Benghazi  and  travelled 
from  Tripoli  to  the  western  mountains  and  back  and 
all  across  Libya.  Chris  Stevens  spoke  with  everyone 
in  Arabic;  he  always  smiled  and  showed  the  utmost 
concern. This humane diplomat has found his place in 
the  consciousness  and  emotions  of  the  Libyan  people. 
It was a day of sadness throughout Libya when he was 
assassinated,  along  with  three  of  his  aides.  We  would 
like to express our deepest condolences to the friendly 
American  people  for  the  grave  loss.  It  was  a  loss  for 
Libya as it was a loss for the United States of America.
We  assure  the  Government  and  the  people  of  the 
United  States  that  this  tragedy  will  only  increase  our 
solidarity  to  entrench  the  hopes  and  objectives  in 
which  Ambassador  Chris  Stevens  believed.  We  will 
defeat  the  schemes  of  the  backward  terrorists,  who 
do  not  represent  Libya  or  Islam.  Islam  is  a  religion  of 
tolerance,  peace  and  love.  As  President  Obama  said 
from  this  rostrum  two  days  ago,  “our  future  will  be 
determined  by  people  like  Chris  Stevens,  and  not  by 
his killers” (A/67/PV.6, p.11). 
In  that  context,  I  would  like  to  express  my 
condolences  to  the  Libyan  people,  particularly  the 
people of Misrata, on the death of Imran Juma Shaban, 
who joined the long list of martyrs some five days ago.
I  would  like  to  express  our  profound  appreciation 
for  the  understanding  shown  by  the  United  States 
Administration following that incident, and to assure it 
that my country is determined to pursue the perpetrators 
and  bring  them  to  justice.  We  will  spare  no  effort  to 
strengthen  the  necessary  protection  for  the  diplomatic 
and  consular  missions  and  all  guests  and  ensure  the 
safety  of  their  staff  and  facilities.  That  tragic  incident 
does  not  at  all  represent  the  feelings  of  the  Libyan 
people, who are known for their moderation, hospitality 
and  gratitude.  Perhaps  the  massive  demonstrations 
condemning  that  abominable  crime  that  took  place  in 
Benghazi  and  other  Libyan  cities  best  represent  the 
genuine  feelings  of  the  Libyan  people  and  their  total 
rejection of all forms of violence and extremism. 
Libya  will  never  become  an  incubator  for  radical 
extremist  groups  and  will  remain  a  peaceful  Muslim 
country  where  moderation  prevails.  The  new  Libya 
will  be  based  on  democracy,  openness,  transparency, 
combating  corruption  and  empowering  women  and 
youth. The new Libya will be by, and for, one and all. 
Meanwhile,  it  would  be  remiss  of  me  not  to 
condemn  the  campaigns  against  Islam  and  to  defame 
the Prophet Muhammad. Such campaigns foment hatred 
and aim to provoke tensions among civilizations. They 
go  beyond  the  concept  of  freedom  of  expression  and 
opinion  and  require  that  the  General  Assembly  adopt 
a  legal  document  to  criminalize  the  defamation  of  all 
religious  symbols  and  figures.  We  Muslims  have  an 
absolute belief in the unity of humankind and solidarity 
among  all  human  beings.  We  express  our  support  for 
the  dialogue  among  religions  and  for  cooperation, 
tolerance  and  eternal  humanitarianumanitarian  values 
and  ideals.  My  country  therefore  supports  all  efforts 
carried out within the framework of the dialogue among 
civilizations,  cultures  and  religions  under  the  United 
Nations and relevant international organizations.
Since the revolution of 17 of February 2011, Libya 
has witnessed many changes due to the uprising of its 
people against social injustice and political tyranny. It 
has not only achieved a change of the tyrant regime but 
has  progressed  towards  a  genuine  democratic  regime 
based  on  respect  for  and  promotion  of  human  rights, 
political  pluralism  and  peaceful  transfer  of  power,  as 
well as on commitment to the principles and provisions 
of  international  law  and  the  Charter  of  the  United 
Nations.
The  Assembly  may  have  followed  the  sequential 
political  developments  that  Libya  experienced  during 
the past few months along the path to democratization. 
Those  include  the  rebuilding  of  State  institutions; 
12-52343
13
A/67/PV.13
the  election  of  the  General  National  Congress,  which 
will,  through  a  constituent  committee,  draft  Libya’s 
permanent  constitution;  and  the  formation  of  the 
first  interim  Government  following  elections  that 
were  commended  by  international  observers  as  fair, 
democratic and transparent. 
We  shall  work  to  rebuild,  reorganize  and  reform 
State institutions, primarily the police, the national army 
and  the  judiciary.  Various  programmes  and  plans  are 
being  implemented  towards  disarming,  demobilizing 
and  reintegrating  the  former  revolutionaries  within 
the  ministries  of  defense  and  interior  and  other  State 
institutions.
For  the  first  time  since  independence,  political 
parties  have  emerged  on  the  political  stage,  as  have 
freedom  of  the  press  and  expression,  unconditional 
freedom  to  demonstrate,  freedom  of  assembly  and 
freedom to establish civil institutions, trade unions and 
intellectual,  political  and  social  organizations  without 
restrictions. That has led to free dialogue and the active 
participation  of  all  segments  of  the  people  throughout 
the country.
through 
For  four  decades,  the  former  regime  f lagrantly 
violated  human  rights 
torture,  detention 
without trial, extrajudicial killing, forced disappearance 
and  ill-treatment  of  citizens  and  violations  of  their 
dignity.  The  outbreak  of  the  17  February  revolution 
in  the  form  of  peaceful  protest  was  confronted  by  the 
security brigades of the former regime with bullets and 
brutal repression, in f lagrant violation of international 
humanitarian law and human rights law. 
fact-finding  committee 
The  Human  Rights  Council  decided  to  suspend 
Libya’s  membership  in  the  Council  and  formed  an 
international 
that  voiced 
the  condemnation  of  the  international  community 
of  such  violations.  The  Council  certified  violations 
of  human  rights  by  the  regime’s  forces  and  by  some 
revolutionaries,  which  has  required  the  new  Libyan 
authorities  to  give  the  human  rights  file  particular 
attention and to take many specific measures.
Some  may  wonder  whether  the  Arab  Spring  was 
worthy  of  support.  To  them  I  say,  would  it  have  been 
better  for  the  corrupt,  dictatorial  regimes  to  continue 
for  decades  more  with  their  practices  of  tyranny, 
oppression,  injustice,  arbitrary  treatment,  corruption, 
exploitation,  and  violations  of  the  most  basic  human 
rights?  Should  they  have  been  allowed  to  continue 
pillaging  the  wealth  of  their  peoples,  pushing  some  of 
the  oppressed  towards  extremism  or  a  certain  agenda 
incompatible  with  peace  and  security,  an  agenda  that 
promoted violence and terror to achieve its objectives?
Democracy did not prevail in France a year, or even 
a decade, after the French Revolution. That pattern has 
been  repeated  in  other  States  that  have  gained  their 
freedom. A period of liberation was followed by stages 
of  instability  and  a  sometimes  long  and  bloody  civil 
war  before  those  States  were  able  to  achieve  stability 
and security and to build their democratic institutions.
At the current stage of building the new Libya, we 
are  facing  extremely  serious  challenges  that  threaten 
national  and  regional  security.  Some  are  a  result  of 
illegal activities by the sons of Al-Qadhafi and certain 
elements  of  the  former  regime  who  are  being  sought 
to  face  justice  but  have  unfortunately  found  refuge  in 
neighbouring countries and some other countries from 
where  they  carry  out  criminal  activities  that  threaten 
security and stability in Libya.
But  we 
in  Libya  also 
face  other  security 
threats  —  trafficking  in  drugs  and  psychotropic 
substances,  illegal  immigration  and  smuggling  and 
trafficking  of  weapons.  As  the  Assembly  knows,  the 
nature and scope of such threats to national and border 
security require a bilateral and multilateral response that 
promotes  and  strengthens  national  efforts.  Therefore, 
last March my country hosted the Regional Ministerial 
Conference  on  Border  Security  in  the  North  African 
and  Sahelian  Region,  which  resulted  in  the  adoption 
of  the  Tripoli  plan  of  action.  The  plan  establishes 
common  mechanisms  and  structures  for  cooperation 
and exchange of information, consultations, experience 
and communications on border security.
Among  our  national  priorities  is  Libya’s  right 
to  restitution  of  moneys  that  were  pillaged  from  the 
State treasury and secreted outside the country. Those 
funds  have  been  used  to  finance  criminal  activities 
and  operations  in  order  to  destabilize  the  country  and 
threaten  its  national  security.  That  has  had  an  impact 
upon neighbouring countries as well. We therefore call 
on all our friends and on States to allow us to recover 
Libyan  moneys,  investments  and  property  located  in 
other countries, particularly in some countries in Africa, 
Latin America and Asia, where those funds have been 
subject to coercive measures by some Governments.
In  that  context,  we  call  upon  all  States  of  the 
world  to  cooperate  in  combating  corruption  and 
money laundering. We call upon financial institutions, 
14 
12-52343
A/67/PV.13
particularly  those  located  in  Western  countries  and 
some  island  States,  to  shoulder  their  responsibilities 
and  not  accept  suspicious  funds,  particularly  from 
Third  World  dictators  who  are  bleeding  the  wealth  of 
their  peoples  and  hiding  those  funds  under  fictitious 
company names.
In  March  2010,  Global  Financial  Integrity  issued 
a  report  estimating  that  the  gross  offshore  deposits 
were  $10  trillion.  We  look  forward  to  the  signing  and 
ratification  of  an  anti-corruption  convention  by  130 
States. We believe that that would promote cooperation 
among States to combat corruption and bring about the 
restitution of stolen funds. 
I  would  now  like  to  pay  tribute  to  the  great 
contribution  made  by  the  United  Nations  Support 
Mission in Libya, previously headed by Mr. Ian Martin, 
despite  the  many  challenges  and  difficulties  that  were 
natural  and  to  be  expected  in  the  transitional  phase. 
We  also  welcome  the  appointment  of  Mr.  Tarek  Mitri 
as  the  new  head  of  the  Mission.  We  wish  him  every 
success  and  look  forward  to  further  cooperation.  We 
are committed to providing all the necessary assistance 
to him and the Mission.
The  new  Libya  undertakes  to  respect  all  of  its 
commitments contained in the international instruments 
and  covenants  on  disarmament  and  the  maintenance 
of  international  peace  and  security.  We  are  fully 
prepared to cooperate transparently and sincerely with 
the  international  community  to  support  efforts,  both 
regional and international, to implement the provisions 
of  international  conventions  and  protocols  and  to 
create  an  international  environment  that  would  foster 
progress  towards  definitively  eliminating  weapons  of 
mass  destruction.  We  are  also  determined  to  review 
all other international instruments to which we are not 
yet party and take the appropriate decisions thereon as 
soon  as  the  permanent  constitution  is  adopted  and  a 
Government and parliament are elected. 
law.  The 
We  condemn  Israel’s  measures  designed  to  Judaize 
occupied  lands  and  its  violations  of  human  rights  and 
international  humanitarian 
international 
community  must  assume  its  responsibilities  by  taking 
strong,  urgent  measures  to  put  an  end  to  Israeli 
aggression and ensure the full protection of Palestinians. 
It must come up with a radical solution to the question 
of  Palestine  through  a  just  and  lasting  settlement  that 
includes  Israel’s  withdrawal  from  all  occupied  lands 
and the return of all Palestinian refugees to their homes, 
as  well  as  the  establishment  of  the  independent  State 
of Palestine with Al-Quds as its capital, in accordance 
with the relevant international resolutions.
The  suffering  of  the  brotherly  Syrian  people 
is  unimaginable.  The  regime  in  power  is  violently 
repressing  its  citizens,  shedding  their  blood  and 
attacking their dignity, and has thus lost its legitimacy. 
In  order  to  put  an  end  to  such  a  tragedy,  Libya  urges 
the  Security  Council  to  act  promptly,  in  accordance 
with  the  principle  of  the  responsibility  to  protect, 
to  take  immediate  action  to  end  all  forms  of  murder, 
violence  and  destruction,  find  a  way  out  of  the  crisis 
through  a  peaceful  transition  of  power,  and  fulfil  the 
legitimate  demands  of  the  Syrian  people.  This  can  be 
achieved  only  through  consensus  among  members  of 
the Security Council and support for the efforts of the 
Joint Special Representative of the United Nations and 
the League of Arab States, Mr. Lakhdar Brahimi.
Libya  condemns  the  social  and  political  injustice, 
harassment and killings being inf licted on the Muslim 
minority  in  Myanmar  on  the  basis  of  ethnicity  and 
religion.  That  is  a  f lagrant  violation  of  human  rights 
and  constitutes  crimes  against  humanity.  We  call  on 
all  relevant  human  rights  institutions  to  immediately 
intervene  and put  an  end  to  the  tragedy. We  underline 
the necessity of forming an international committee of 
inquiry to identify those responsible for such violence 
and  killings,  bring  the  perpetrators  to  justice  and 
ensure that victims are duly compensated and refugees 
returned safely to their homes.
States  Members  of 
the  United  Nations  have 
convened every year at the General Assembly ever since 
the  Organization  was  established  in  order  to  ref lect 
on  the  purposes  and  principles  set  out  in  its  Charter. 
We have achieved much, but many challenges remain, 
such  as  reforming  the  United  Nations,  eliminating 
weapons  of  mass  destruction,  reducing  poverty, 
ignorance  and  disease  and  wars  and  armed  conf licts, 
fighting  terrorism  and  organized  crime,  protecting 
the  environment,  achieving  sustainable  development, 
respecting  human  rights,  in  particular  the  rights  of 
women,  and  ensuring  the  rule  of  law  and  combating 
racism, hatred and fanaticism.
Libya wishes to stress its afﬁ nity with Africa and the 
importance of shifting its policies towards, and relations 
with,  Africa  and  the  world  —  which  were  once  based 
on personal whims and acts of extortion — to policies 
and  relations  firmly  grounded  in  the  best  interests  of 
12-52343
15
A/67/PV.13
all  peoples.  The  new  Libya  dissociates  itself  from  the 
repugnant  past  and  extends  its  hands  in  freedom  and 
friendship  to  build  new  relationships  based  on  mutual 
respect and fruitful cooperation.
In  conclusion,  let  me  wish  the  General  Assembly 
at  its  sixty-seventh  session  full  success  in  solving  the 
issues on its agenda. I express the hope that a spirit of 
solidarity and cooperation will prevail so that we may 
create  a  better  world,  one  blessed  with  security  and 
stability.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly, I thank the President of the General National 
Congress of Libya for the statement he has just made.
Mr. Mohamed Yousef El-Magariaf, President of the 
General National Congress of Libya, was escorted 
from the General Assembly Hall.
Agenda item 8 (continued)
General debate
Address by Mr. Thérence Sinunguruza, 
Vice-President of the Republic of Burundi
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Vice-President  of  the  Republic 
of Burundi.
Mr.  Thérence  Sinunguruza,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic of Burundi, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming His Excellency Mr. Thérence Sinunguruza, 
Vice-President of the Republic of Burundi, and inviting 
him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Sinunguruza  (Burundi)  (spoke  in  French):  It 
is a great pleasure for me to address the representatives 
here today and to express my congratulations to Mr. Vuk 
Jeremić  on  his  election  as  President  of  the  General 
Assembly at its sixty-seventh session, and to his cabinet 
as well. I also thank his predecessor, Ambassador Nassir 
Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser,  for  his  excellent  work  during 
his  presidency.  In  addition,  I  extend  my  appreciation 
to  Secretary-General  Ban  Ki-moon  for  his  work  for 
the  good  and  well-being  of  Member  States  and  their 
peoples.
It is an honour and a pleasure for me to speak from 
this  rostrum  about  current  issues  of  great  importance 
to my country and the world. It is a pleasure especially 
because Burundi is right now at a decisive and historic 
turning  point.  What  I  have  to  say  Pierre  Nkurunziza, 
President of the Republic of Burundi, also spoke of last 
year at the Assembly’s sixty-sixth session. A major turn 
of  events  has  placed  a  special  stamp  on  our  country’s 
history  since  independence.  Democratically  elected 
institutions now serve out the terms entrusted to them 
by  the  people  in  peace,  and  then,  at  the  end  of  their 
tenure, give way to others, also democratically elected. 
the  second 
Over  two  years  ago,  in  2010,  Burundi  organized 
democratic  elections  for 
time  since 
2005,  from  which  were  born  our  current  republican 
institutions, which operate with legitimacy in a restored 
climate of peace and security. That development gives us 
great satisfaction, and the Burundian people have every 
reason  to  be  proud  of  it.  Indeed,  whereas  my  country 
faced crises on multiple fronts, under which the people 
suffered  economic  depletion,  social  degradation  and 
political  discord,  seriously  demoralizing  them,  those 
same people are now steadily getting back on their feet 
and rediscovering hope as they look to the future. That 
positive  trend  demonstrates  conclusively  a  complete 
break  with  the  spirals  of  violence  and  instability  that 
have for decades been our ongoing lot. 
Thanks to the collective efforts, strength and spirit 
of the Burundian people, as well as to the support of our 
partners, I can confirm here and now that the policies 
begun in 2005 and carried on after 2010 have produced 
most encouraging results in many areas. As I said earlier, 
in the political sphere our country has held democratic 
elections twice in the recent past, in 2005 and 2010. We 
have established democratic institutions — the executive 
branch,  the  National  Assembly  and  the  Senate  —  all 
of  which  are  representative  of  the  various  elements 
of  Burundi’s  population,  in  conformity  with  the 
ethnic  and  gender  balances  agreed  to  in  the  Arusha 
Peace  and  Reconciliation  Agreement,  which  have 
been  incorporated  into  the  Constitution  governing 
Burundians  today.  I  take  pleasure  in  pointing  out  that 
our  Senate’s  composition  shows  a  gender  parity  such 
that  out  of  all  senates  worldwide  Burundi’s  places 
second  in  women’s  representation.  That  is  clearly  a 
significant and bold step forward, because, rather than 
settle for the minimum set out in the Constitution, our 
Government  voluntarily  made  the  deliberate  choice  to 
go  further,  to  ensure  that  the  female  majority  in  the 
population is represented meaningfully in the country’s 
institutions.
In  its  determined  drive  towards  change,  the 
Government  subsequently  established  an  independent 
16 
12-52343
national  commission  on  human 
rights  and  an 
ombudsman’s office. It initiated a zero-tolerance policy 
designed  to  eradicate  corruption  and  misuse  of  public 
funds,  a  scourge  that  has  ravaged  Burundian  society 
for several years, and also set up adequate enforcement 
mechanisms.  We  still  have  a  way  to  go,  as  is  the  case 
in many other countries, but the structures to get there 
are  firmly  in  place.  In  October  2011  the  Government 
adopted a national good governance and anti-corruption 
strategy  for  2011-2015.  Also,  Government  officials, 
including those at high levels, have signed performance 
contracts,  laying  the  groundwork  for  a  culture  of 
accountability,  which 
to  democratic 
systems.  The  members  of  the  Administration  and 
high-level officials are periodically evaluated based on 
those  contracts.  If  they  live  up  to  agreed  performance 
standards  they  are  retained,  but  otherwise  they  are 
replaced.
is  essential 
justice 
transitional 
towards  a 
The  Arusha  Peace  and  Reconciliation  Agreement 
calls  for  transitional  justice  mechanisms.  We  are 
working 
system 
that  carefully  and 
rigorously  balances  national 
reconciliation  requirements  and  those  of  justice.  We 
need  a  mechanism  that  banishes  the  demons  of  the 
past  and  at  the  same  time  affords  no  opportunity  for 
any type of vengeance or the settling of old scores; in 
other  words,  a  mechanism  to  establish  the  truth  and 
to  ensure  that  there  is  no  recurrence  of  the  acts  in 
question. National consultations were held in 2009, and 
the  related  report  has  been  made  public.  A  technical 
committee was established with a mandate to pave the 
way  for  a  truth  and  reconciliation  commission.  That 
committee proposed a methodology in its final report, 
which  was  submitted  through  the  proper  channels  in 
October 2011. The Government had hoped to establish 
the commission in January 2012, but that decision had 
to be postponed for technical reasons owing to the fact 
that  further  consultations  were  required,  along  with 
specific  proposals  on  the  commission’s  mandate  and 
composition, the selection criteria for its members and 
matters related to its operating budget. 
that  yielded  positive 
Besides those achievements in the political sphere, 
the  Government  undertook  a  vast  social  construction 
project 
results.  Measures 
providing free education for children of primary school 
age  enabled  millions  of  little  Burundians  to  attend 
school,  while  free  medical  care  for  pregnant  women, 
nursing  mothers  and  children  under  five  years  of  age 
significantly  improved  maternal  and  child  health  care 
A/67/PV.13
and will help us to reach the Millennium Development 
Goals  (MDGs)  in  that  regard  in  the  near  future.  Also, 
with  the  participation  of  the  population  in  communal 
labour, 2,024 schools, 80 health centres and more than 
2,000 potable-water wells were built in just three years.
With 
respect 
to  socioeconomic  development, 
Burundi  is  continuing  to  improve  its  basic  economic 
infrastructure,  including  the  management  of  public 
finances,  an  improved  business  climate  and  good 
governance. In addition, significant progress has been 
made  with  respect  to  the  gradual  and  orderly  return 
of  displaced  persons  and  the  repatriation  of  refugees. 
All those efforts have taken place within the Strategic 
Framework for Growth and Poverty Reduction, Vision 
2025  and  the  MDGs.  Of  the  total  of  800,000  counted 
in  the  census  of  2000-2001,  all  have  returned  to  our 
country with the exception of 37,000 from the Mtabila 
camp, who are expected to return by 31 December. Many 
internally  displaced  persons  have  already  returned  to 
their  homes.  We  have  just  finished  a  profiling  survey 
of those who remain on site, which, in the light of their 
expressed wishes, will determine the most appropriate 
and humane resolution of their situation.
The  social  and  economic  reintegration  of  former 
combatants  has  yet  to  be  completed  and  represents  a 
genuine  security  risk.  While  it  is  true  that  there  have 
been  a  few  isolated  instances  of  insecurity  here  and 
there  in  the  country,  that  is  not  unique  to  Burundi. 
Banditry,  which  has  taken  place  on  a  small  scale  in 
Burundi,  also  occurs  elsewhere,  in  many  countries. 
The Government is determined to stamp out all forms 
of  criminality,  including  armed  robbery.  It  considers 
security  the  sine  qua  non  of  all  social  and  economic 
progress,  which  is  why  it  has  embarked  on  reforms  in 
that regard. The professionalization of the defence and 
security  forces  and  of  the  justice  system  to  guarantee 
the rights of both citizens and foreigners on our soil are 
among  the  measures  that  the  Government  has  written 
into its programme and will continue to promote as the 
country moves forward.
In 
the 
regional 
area  of 
integration, 
an 
intragovernmental  committee  has  been  established  to 
develop a national strategy for regional integration, with 
the goal of enabling Burundi to take best advantage of 
its participation in subregional entities and reducing the 
deficits and disadvantages that stem from belonging to 
non-regional organizations. 
The  Strategic  Framework  for  Growth  and  Poverty 
Reduction  has  reached  an  advanced  stage.  The 
12-52343
17
A/67/PV.13
Government  and  the  Вurundi  configuration  of  the 
Peacebuilding Commission have made visible progress 
in a number of areas, as indicated in the outcome of the 
fifth  review  of  the  Peacebuilding  Commission,  issued 
on 26 April 2011. Positive results were noted in the areas 
of political and institutional peacebuilding issues, good 
governance, human rights, economic issues, vulnerable 
groups and regional integration, as described earlier.
After  this  brief  survey  of  the  internal  situation  of 
my  country,  I  now  turn  to  Burundi’s  role  and position 
regarding  certain  international  matters.  With  respect 
to Burundi’s participation in peacekeeping operations, 
I  would  like  to  say  that  Burundi  was  one  of  the  two 
countries to take part in the African Union Mission in 
Somalia, and that it is pleased with the work accomplished 
by its soldiers in that context. As the Secretary-General 
has already done, my country commends the adoption, 
in  August,  of  the  provisional  Constitution  of  Somalia 
by  the  National  Constituent  Assembly  in  Mogadishu. 
It  congratulates  and  encourages  the  Somali  delegates 
and leaders with respect to the new developments under 
way, aimed at normalizing that country’s situation, and 
to their commitment to ending the transition period and 
establishing  new  political  institutions  that  represent 
all  Somalis.  Burundi  stands  ready  to  share  with  the 
Somalis  our  experience  on  the  question  of  national 
reconciliation  and  in  training  a  national  republican 
army.
With  respect  to  the  security  situation  in  the 
eastern  part  of  the  Democratic  Republic  of  the 
Congo,  Burundi,  along  with  the  other  members  of  the 
International  Conference  on  the  Great  Lakes  Region, 
confirms  its  strong  commitment  to  the  terms  of  the 
pact  of  15  December  2006  and  to  its  related  protocols 
guaranteeing  security,  stability  and  development.  We 
are  also  a  signatory  to  the  declarations  agreed  by  the 
heads  of  State  and  Government  of  the  member  States 
of that organization in Addis Ababa on 15 July, and in 
Kampala  on  7  and  8  August  and  7  and  8  September. 
Along  with  the  other  countries  of  the  region,  Burundi 
remains  determined  to  seek  solutions  to  that  conf lict 
in 
through  existing 
accordance  with  decisions  already 
the 
countries of the subregion within the framework of the 
International Conference on the Great Lakes Region.
regional  arrangements  and 
taken  by 
The Assembly will have noted in the course of my 
statement  that  the  Government  of  Burundi  has  made 
undeniable  progress.  Still,  major  challenges  remain, 
not least of them the maintenance of economic growth. 
Despite  the  unfavourable  international  financial  and 
economic  context,  Burundi,  with  the  support  of  its 
partners, must keep its head above water. It must increase 
its  economic  growth  with  the  aim  of  implementing 
its  economic  and  social  development  projects.  It 
goes  without  saying  that  lack  of  growth,  along  with 
poverty,  means  fewer  schools,  fewer  hospitals  and 
less progress in the areas of energy and transportation 
infrastructure  —  in  short,  less  development  for  the 
country  and  its  people.  No  leader  worthy  of  the  title 
would bequeath such a disastrous economic situation to 
future generations.
That  is  why,  despite  the  troubling  international 
economic  outlook,  guidance  and  support  are  more 
than  ever  necessary  for  economies  as  weak  as  ours  in 
Burundi. However sustainable it may be at the national 
level,  our  economy  is  still  very  much  dependent  on 
the global economy. I remain convinced that, with the 
will, commitment and vigour of the people of Burundi, 
supported by our friends, the scale of our political and 
socioeconomic  gains  will  continue  to  expand.  For  its 
part,  the  Government  will  spare  no  effort  to  harness, 
coordinate and collaborate with the efforts of all parties 
to  fight  hand  in  hand  for  people’s  well-being  and 
prosperity, in Burundi and around the world.
I would like to conclude by welcoming the actions 
taken by the United Nations, which over the 67 years of 
its  existence  has  moved  the  world  forward  at  an  ever-
accelerating pace. I would also like to see the institutional 
changes  envisaged  for  the  Organization  take  the 
interests of all Member States into consideration, with 
all stakeholders taking part in the reform and updating 
of the system..
Finally,  I  wish  the  President  of  the  General 
Assembly every success throughout his term of office.
Long  live  international  cooperation!  Long  live  the 
United Nations! Long live Burundi!
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic of Burundi for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Thérence  Sinunguruza,  Vice-President  of 
the  Republic  of  Burundi,  was  escorted  from  the 
rostrum.
18 
12-52343
Address by Mr. Danny Faure, Vice-President of 
the Republic of Seychelles
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an addresss by the Vice-President of the Republic 
of Seychelles.
Mr.  Danny  Faure,  Vice-President  of  the  Republic 
of Seychelles, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure 
in  welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Danny  Faure, 
Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  Seychelles,  and 
inviting him to address the General Assembly.
Mr.  Faure  (Seychelles):  In  the  modern  world,  the 
pace  of  change,  whether  political,  social  or  economic, 
challenges  our  ability  to  react  in  a  constructive, 
sustainable and just manner. And in the face of change, 
the  role  of  the  General  Assembly  becomes  even  more 
important,  as  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
has reminded us. We look to the United Nations — our 
United  Nations  and  our  General  Assembly  —  to  help 
us  find  the  common  ground  needed  for  the  resolution 
of  the  big  questions  of  our  time.  We  can  truly  be  a 
“G-193”, as our President has previously remarked.
As an oceanic island nation, Seychelles understands 
intrinsically that the development of our region depends 
upon being able to defuse conf lict and tension through 
diplomacy  and  on  defining  a  framework  to  properly 
share all the opportunities that our ocean offers us. In 
the  Indian  Ocean,  we  are  particularly  concerned  with 
two  issues  that  challenge  the  proper  application  of 
the rule of law in a sustainable manner: the continued 
problem  of  maritime  piracy  and  the  resolution  of  the 
political crisis in Madagascar.
Piracy  fundamentally  alters  our  relationship  with 
our ocean. Piracy instils fear and uncertainty. We have 
two compatriots still being held captive in Somalia, and, 
as  long  as  they  remain  separated  from  their  families, 
our  ocean  represents  risk  for  our  nation,  rather  than 
the opportunity that it should. Establishing the rule of 
law in Somalia is obviously the only true long-term and 
sustainable  solution  to  piracy.  We  welcome  the  moves 
in  Somalia  and  by  the  international  community  to 
strengthen those efforts.
Seychelles  is  already  working  with  the  central 
Government  of  Somalia,  as  well  as  the  regions  of 
Somaliland  and  Puntland,  to  be  able  to  transfer 
prosecuted  prisoners  to  serve  their  sentences  in  their 
country of origin. This is a key part of building the rule 
A/67/PV.13
of law in Somalia. More resources are needed, however, 
to accelerate the building of appropriate infrastructure 
in  those  parts  of  Somalia  where  stability  has  been 
established.  We  must  transform  fear  and  uncertainty 
into hope and optimism in Somalia itself, as well as in 
the Indian Ocean.
Seychelles  has  committed  itself  to  ending  the 
impunity  associated  with  piracy.  Piracy  has  become  a 
global  business,  operated  by  a  transnational  criminal 
network. Seychelles, in partnership with the Government 
of the United Kingdom and other international parties, 
is  in  the  process  of  setting  up  a  regional  anti-piracy 
prosecution  and  intelligence  centre.  The  success  of 
this  initiative  will  depend  on  strong  international 
cooperation. We count on all our partners to work with 
us to ensure a true long-term solution for this issue.
(spoke in French)
The  Indian  Ocean  Commission,  which  Seychelles 
is  currently  chairing,  recognizes  the  work  of  the 
United  Nations  in  favour  of  peace,  democracy  and 
human  rights,  in  the  interests  of  the  people  of  its  five 
member  States.  The  crisis  facing  Madagascar  is  truly 
testing  the  country.  It  is  plunging  the  population  into 
great economic and social difficulties, and is affecting 
the  entire  region.  The  Seychelles  presidency  of  the 
Commission  continues  supporting  the  implementation 
of  the  road  map  developed  by  the  Southern  African 
Development  Community  (SADC).  In  that  context,  it 
organized two meetings between Marc Ravalomanana, 
the  former  President,  and  Andry  Nirina  Rajoelina, 
President  of  the  Transition,  in  Seychelles,  with  the 
dual  mediation  of  Presidents  James  Michel  and  Jacob 
Zuma, head of the SADC troika. Those talks, convened 
at  the  recommendation  of  the  most  recent  SADC 
Summit, enable us today to look forward to useful and 
relevant  actions  for  a  return  to  constitutional  order  in 
Madagascar,  in  keeping  with  the  electoral  timetable 
drawn  up  by  the  United  Nations  and  Madagascar’s 
Independent National Electoral Commission.
In that regard, we should like to express our thanks 
to  the  transitional  Government,  which  has  confirmed 
its  contribution  to  the  financing  of  the  elections,  in 
accordance  with  the  recommendations  of  the  United 
Nations. This is also the time to call on all international 
partners  to  help  ensure  fair,  transparent  and  equitable 
elections  in  that  country,  which  is  anxious  to  regain 
its  place  on  the  international  stage.  Through  elections 
Madagascar  will  return  to  the  rule  of  law,  and  it  is 
12-52343
19
A/67/PV.13
through  the  rule  of  law  in  Madagascar  that  we  will 
be  able  to  depend  on  sustainable  development  in  the 
Indian Ocean.
us.  The  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development has given new momentum to the concept 
of the blue economy.
(spoke in English)
Respect  for  the  rule  of  law  is  also  about  ensuring 
that conditions are in place for equity and fairness in the 
international system as a whole. Small island developing 
States  (SIDS)  are  too  often  on  the  periphery  of  most 
international  decision-making  bodies.  Seychelles  is 
proposing  that  SIDS  be  considered  as  offering  unique 
opportunities  for 
innovative  policies  and 
technologies  that  can  benefit  all  humankind.  In  the 
fight  against  climate  change,  SIDS  could  be  at  the 
forefront of groundbreaking solutions.
testing 
For  example, 
the  Global  Island  Partnership, 
co-chaired  by  Seychelles,  Palau  and  Grenada,  has 
proposed  considering  debt  cancellation  for  SIDS 
to  enable  them  to  better  prepare  for  climate  change 
adaptation.  A  large  number  of  SIDS  have  debt-to-
gross-domestic-product  ratios  in  excess  of  100  per 
cent, and such debt forgiveness would give them more 
f lexibility within their own budgets to prepare to face 
climate  change,  and  thus  protect  some  of  the  most 
environmentally sensitive zones on the planet.
With  regard  to  the  high  volatility  of  international 
fuel prices, SIDS can strengthen their resilience through 
investment  in  renewable  energy.  We  warmly  welcome 
the  Sustainable  Energy  for  All  initiative  championed 
by the Secretary-General, and we commit our support 
to  making  it  a  success.  While  the  latest  technology  in 
renewable energy often represents a significant capital 
outlay,  by  developing  pilot  projects  in  SIDS  we  can 
potentially  create  economies  based  on  100  per  cent 
renewable energy that can then be replicated on a larger 
scale.
Finally,  it  is  very  important  that  consideration 
be  given  to  how  to  better  support  SIDS  within  the 
international  trading  system.  Trade-based  support  for 
SIDS  could  easily  be  established  without  disruption 
or distortion of the global f low of goods and services. 
Islands are particularly reliant on open access to trade 
with  as  many  countries  as  possible.  In  the  context  of 
the  current  challenges  to  food  security,  we  urge  that 
all  barriers  affecting  trade  with  islands,  including  the 
economic embargo on Cuba, be lifted, since they serve 
only to increase the inherent challenges associated with 
trading from a position of insularity. As an island State, 
we are aware that the ocean must connect us, not divide 
We are also very aware that the ocean will always 
be a shared space. As an archipelago, we are privileged 
to  be  custodians  of  that  space.  This  year,  for  the  first 
time  in  the  history  of  the  United  Nations,  Seychelles 
and Mauritius, two neighbouring SIDS, have agreed on 
joint  management  of  an  area  of  extended  continental 
shelf  of  3,000  square  kilometres.  That  means  that  we 
are sharing the space for the benefit of our two peoples’ 
development. We are sharing the responsibility and the 
opportunity. We believe that all nations, large or small, 
must contribute to making this planet a better world to 
live in.
Seychelles recently announced its intention to stand 
for a non-permanent seat on the Security Council in the 
year 2017, subject to endorsement by the African Union. 
We are doing so because we believe that the voices of 
all nations matter, whether they are large or small, rich 
or  poor.  As  the  smallest  African  nation,  we  keenly 
understand that we need to fight for Africa’s economic 
independence.  We  are  committed  to  the  ideals  of  the 
African  Union,  on  the  basis  of  which  we  attained  our 
political freedom. Now more than ever we must invest 
in  Africa’s  economic  freedom.  We  must  create  the 
means  by  which  Africa’s  share  of  trade  and  financial 
power can increase at a faster rate. We must empower 
African institutions. Seychelles adds its voice to the call 
for more investment in the African Development Bank, 
including  by  African  nations  themselves,  by  investing 
their reserves in it.
We  must  also  foster  peace  on  our  continent  by 
leading  efforts  to  find  solutions  to  our  problems, 
such  as  in  Somalia,  Madagascar  and  elsewhere  in 
Africa.  As  a  small  island  developing  State,  we  have  a 
greater  understanding  than  ever  of  the  ways  in  which 
our  planet  is  under  threat  from  climate  change,  and 
of  the  need  to  act  now  for  the  sake  of  all  humankind. 
Most of all, as citizens of planet Earth, we understand 
that  as  individuals  and  as  a  nation  our  decisions 
have  consequences  beyond  our  borders.  They  have 
consequences for our future and for our children. These 
are all issues that must be weighed carefully, and it is 
important  that  all  voices  be  considered  in  the  debate. 
We thank the Assembly for giving due consideration to 
the voice of Seychelles.
20 
12-52343
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic  of  Seychelles  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made.
Mr.  Danny  Faure,  Vice-President  of  the  Republic 
of Seychelles, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Khudayr al-Khuzai, 
Vice-President of the Republic of Iraq
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Vice-President  of  the  Republic 
of Iraq.
Mr.  Khudayr  al-Khuzai,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic of Iraq, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Khudayr  al-Khuzai, 
Vice-President of the Republic of Iraq, and inviting him 
to address the Assembly.
 Mr.  Al-Khuzai  (Iraq)  (spoke  in  Arabic):  I  stand 
here today in order to convey to the General Assembly 
the  sincere  regards  and  best  wishes  of  the  people  of 
Iraq,  who  wish  to  share  in  forging  closer  bonds  of 
amity and cooperation between peoples and countries, 
at  a  time  when  my  country  is  undergoing  a  structural 
transformation at every level, a process that will enable 
it to reform itself, achieve its goals and consolidate its 
gains.
We  are  building  a  future  through  the  conscious 
understanding of our history as the cradle of civilization 
and where the earliest writing system and codiﬁ cation of 
laws were born. Iraq has been successful in establishing 
a democratic, pluralistic and federalist State on the basis 
of an enlightened Constitution, drafted by our people’s 
representatives and voted on by our people.
Our  Constitution  lays  out  the  aspirations  of  our 
people  to  a  free  and  decent  life  based  on  freedom, 
democracy  and  the  peaceful  transfer  of  authority, 
citizenship  and  human  rights.  Iraq  has  regained  its 
security,  political  and  economic  health  in  record  time 
and  under  extremely  difficult  conditions,  where  the 
forces of darkness had been betting that terrorism would 
derail the experiment. However, thanks to God and the 
patriotic  vigour  and  self-awareness  of  our  nation,  our 
people were able to turn the page. Our efforts are based 
on  a  cultural  history  of  about  10,000  years  and  on  a 
great  human  legacy  created  by  the  heavenly  messages 
A/67/PV.13
and laudable human experiences that f lourished in our 
glorious land.
Our  renewed  ambition  to  build  a  modern  State 
where  the  Iraqi  people  enjoy  freedom,  development 
and  prosperity  requires  us  to  move  towards  the 
establishment  of  good,  friendly  and  equal  relations 
with all nations in the world, within the framework of 
a  cooperative  international  system  governed  by  clear 
rules  that  prevent  the  problems  and  crises  that  could 
undermine  its  prosperity  and  stability.  The  new  Iraq 
has  chosen  to  embark  on  the  path  of  cooperation  and 
coordination  with  the  international  community  in  the 
political,  economic  and  development  spheres.  Those 
efforts  have  been  coupled  with  significant  qualitative 
leaps in our economic growth that will qualify Iraq to 
return to the realm of the world economy and to emerge 
within  the  international  economic  system,  based  on  a 
realistic  vision  that  has  achieved  a  number  of  positive 
developments over recent years.
According 
to  various 
indicators,  our  gross 
domestic product (GDP) has doubled, which has in turn 
doubled the per capita share of the GDP. According to 
projections by the International Monetary Fund, Iraq’s 
GDP  is  expected  to  reach  approximately  $150  billion 
in  2014.  The  Iraqi  Government  has  also  succeeded  in 
implementing  policies  to  curb  inf lation  and  to  control 
governmental  spending,  in  addition  to  our  success  in 
collaborating  with  the  international  community  to 
reduce  the  debt  accumulated  by  the  country  over  past 
decades.
We have embraced a theory of balanced growth in 
our national development plans for the upcoming years, 
in  which  the  oil  sector  is  to  serve  as  the  engine  for 
other sectors. Iraq has oil reserves amounting to about 
143  billion  barrels  and  potential  reserves  surpassing 
the  current  estimated  proven  reserves,  in  addition  to 
large reserves of natural gas amounting to 126.7 trillion 
cubic  feet.  We  expect  investments  to  contribute  to 
substantial  development  in  the  oil  industry  in  Iraq 
through 
refineries 
and  other  oil-  and  gas-related  sectors  and  industries. 
Estimates  suggest  that  from  2017  to  2020  production 
will reach more than 10 million barrels of oil per day. 
The  development  plan  will  include  all  sectors  and 
infrastructure in order to provide secure and promising 
investment  opportunities.  The  Iraqi  Government  has 
prepared legislation to promote confidence in the Iraqi 
economy  by  providing  legal  protection  for  foreign 
investments in Iraq through the guarantees listed in the 
rounds,  establishing 
licensing 
12-52343
21
A/67/PV.13
investment  law  itself  and  through  Iraq’s  accession  to 
the Multilateral Investment Guarantee Agency in 2007 
and through bilateral treaties to guarantee and protect 
investments.
We  were  able  to  establish  solid  foundations  for 
political  conduct,  which  has  matured  rapidly  as  our 
people  have  grown  to  accept  those  unlike  themselves 
and  to  live  according  to  the  principle  of  citizenship, 
the  rule  of  law,  the  independence  of  the  judiciary  and 
the freedom of expression. We proudly announce that, 
owing  to  our  freedom  of  opinion  and  expression,  we 
do  not  have  a  single  prisoner  jailed  for  his  beliefs  or 
opinions.  In  our  fight  against  terrorism,  human  rights 
remain  a  cherished  principle  that  we  respect  and 
promote as a just cause. We do not have any justification 
to tamper with such rights.
It is true that confronting terrorism has cost Iraq a lot 
of blood, tears, sweat and financial resources, but that 
confrontation has rewarded our people with a permanent 
immunity against violence. It has also created extreme 
sensitivity vis-à-vis violence as a means to resolve our 
strife with others. Therefore, as much as we care about 
sparing our people the ravages of fighting, we hope that 
other countries, especially neighbouring countries, will 
learn from the Iraqi experience and spare their peoples 
unnecessary  turmoil.  We  call  upon  them  to  adopt  the 
principle  of  negotiation  to  resolve  conf licts  and  the 
use  of  dialogue,  logic,  reason,  laws  and  the  peaceful 
transfer of power.
That  is  the  essence  of  Iraq’s  position  regarding 
the  revolutions  of  the  Arab  Spring,  which  we  cannot 
do  anything  about  except  to  be  entirely  on  the  side  of 
the  people  and  their  legitimate  aspirations,  their  right 
to self-determination and the right to choose their own 
rulers. We share the concerns regarding the issues facing 
the  peoples  and  States  Members  of  the  Organization; 
those  concerns  represent  a  humanitarian,  legal  and 
moral burden, because all of us share one world, which 
is affected by conf licts and their aftermath.
Based on that, the Syrian issue and the humanitarian 
difﬁ culties  facing  civilians  in  that  country  occupy  a 
great deal of our attention. We think that the escalating 
violence  in  Syria  is  a  reason  for  distress  and  concern, 
and  it  is  incumbent  upon  the  leaders  gathered  here  to 
work in earnest to stop the bloodshed, which claims the 
lives of tens and perhaps hundreds of people every day 
in  Syria.  We  would  like  also  to  draw  attention  to  the 
danger of providing the fighting parties with weapons, 
which only leads to more violence, bloodshed and loss 
of  life.  The  situation  is  endangering  the  social  fabric 
of  the  Syrian  people  and  may  lead  to  fragmentation 
and disintegration of that people, whom we cherish and 
whose unity and sovereignty we care about.
We also realize that the facts on the ground suggest 
that  regional  and  international  intervention  could 
adversely  impact  the  Syrian  issue  and  might  cause 
unlimited  chaos  and  devastation  that  would  spare  no 
one,  including  the  interveners.  We  therefore  sincerely 
call  for  dialogue  and  a  peaceful  solution  as  the  only 
means to end a crisis that could engulf the whole region 
and exacerbate the current situation.
The  events 
in  Syria  have  demonstrated 
that 
resolving  the  crisis  through  violence  and  force  could 
double the costs incurred by the Syrians and the region, 
for such means only increase the suffering of civilians, 
destroy  infrastructure  and  multiply  the  number  of 
displaced  persons  and  refugees.  That  is  why  we  hope 
that  all  the  parties  to  the  conf lict  understand  that  the 
military solution alone is a dangerous move and gamble. 
From this rostrum, we call upon kings, presidents and 
other  heads  of  State  here  today  at  this  humanitarian 
gathering to support reconciliation and dialogue among 
all  Syrians  and  endorse  the  United  Nations  and  Arab 
League  initiative  promoted  by  Mr.  Lakhdar  Brahimi 
after the noble efforts of Mr. Kofi Annan reached at an 
impasse.
In  that  regard,  we  do  not  hide  our  concern  about 
the  consequences  of  the  ongoing  crisis,  which  could 
only worsen if sectarian and ethnic strife is triggered. 
That, in turn, could lead the region and its peoples into 
a  spiral  of  fighting  with  no  end  on  the  horizon.  Such 
a prospect makes it incumbent upon us on us to try in 
earnest  to  contain  and  peacefully  resolve  the  crisis, 
while preserving the interests of the Syrian people and 
preventing further deterioration of the situation.
Iraq’s initiative aimed at resolving the Syrian crisis 
continues  to  stand  as  a  beacon  of  peace,  as  we  search 
for  an  exit  acceptable  to  all  the  forces  of  good.  Our 
initiative  is  based  on  the  following  two  points.  First, 
Iraq  has  a  keen  desire  to  see  Syria  remain  intact  as  a 
State, and we support the hopes and aspirations of the 
Syrian  people  for  a  free  and  dignified  life.  Secondly, 
Iraq  is  concerned  at  the  possible  repercussions  of  the 
violence  and  destruction  caused  by  Syria’s  internal 
war  and  sectarian  strife,  which  we  fear  could  have  a 
spillover effect.
22 
12-52343
Iraq’s  unwavering  and  well-known  position  does 
not  deviate  from  the  Arab  ranks  on  issues  of  crucial 
importance  to  our  Arab  nation.  We  accordingly 
support  the  establishment  of  the  State  of  Palestine  in 
the occupied Palestinian territories, with Jerusalem as 
its capital, and declare our support for the membership 
of  the  State  of  Palestine  in  the  United  Nations.  We 
also  declare  our  unequivocal  rejection  of  the  policies 
of  oppression,  Judaization  and  usurpation  of  land 
that  Israel  pursues  without  regard  for  international 
condemnation of its unjust practices, including the use 
of brutal force. We also reject Israel’s disregard for the 
repeated  international  calls  to  sign  the  Treaty  on  the 
Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons and to place its 
military arsenal and facilities under the supervision of 
the International Atomic Energy Agency. 
We  have  tirelessly  called  for  the  establishment 
in  our  region  of  a  zone  without  nuclear  weapons. 
Therefore, within the international framework, we are 
contributing to efforts to implement a Middle East zone 
free  of  all  weapons  of  mass  destruction,  chief  among 
which are nuclear weapons. That is why we endorse the 
preparations for the Helsinki conference to be held this 
year with a view to setting up a process that would set 
up  such  a  zone.  Any  failure  in  that  endeavour  would 
lead to an arms race in a region that is in dire need of 
peace and stability. 
We condemn and reject the discriminatory policies 
pursued  against  religious  and  ethnic  minorities  in 
many countries the world over. We especially condemn 
the  inhumane  violations  of  the  rights  of  Muslims  in 
Myanmar,  who  face  genocide.  The  world’s  conscience 
should  not  remain  untroubled  by  the  gravity  of  their 
plight. Such situations run counter to all the principles of 
human rights law, religious teachings and international 
conventions.
friendly 
Our  good  and 
relations  with  our 
neighbours,  the  region  and  the  entire  world  are 
governed by a balanced foreign policy based on mutual 
respect,  common  interests  and  non-interference  in  the 
affairs of others. We also uphold the principles of good-
neighbourliness and dialogue in our relations with the 
Arab  and  Muslim  worlds,  as  well  as  with  the  entire 
world.  Iraq  hosted  the  League  of  Arab  States  Summit 
in March, which marked a return to our active, natural 
and pioneering role in joint Arab decision-making and 
action.  That  was  followed  by  Iraq’s  hosting  of  one  of 
the rounds of international negotiations on the Iranian 
nuclear  issue,  which  we  undertook  in  the  objective, 
A/67/PV.13
balanced and responsible spirit that characterizes Iraq’s 
clear position with respect to that issue. It is a position 
that declares our firm support for international efforts 
to  prevent  the  proliferation  of  nuclear  weapons,  while 
affirming the right of peoples and countries to benefit 
from the peaceful use of nuclear energy.
the 
We  call  upon 
international  community, 
represented  by  the  United  Nations  and  its  Secretary-
General,  Mr.  Ban  Ki-moon,  whom  we  highly  respect 
and  revere,  to  extend  support  to  Iraq’s  efforts  to  exit 
from  the  Chapter  VII  provisions  imposed  on  us  as  a 
result  of  the  mistaken  policies  of  the  former  regime 
following Iraq’s invasion of Kuwait, especially as there 
is  no  longer  any  justification  for  such  international 
action.  Iraq  is  no  longer  a  threat  to  anyone  and  has 
fulfilled  most  of  its  obligations,  as  is  confirmed  by 
the  renewal  of  our  brotherly  relations  with  the  State 
of  Kuwait,  seen  specifically  in  the  mutual  visits  of 
high-level officials of our respective countries and the 
serious  and  constructive  dialogue  based  on  a  sincere 
desire  and  sustained  efforts  to  resolve  all  outstanding 
issues between us. 
I  would  be  remiss  if  I  failed  to  speak  of  the 
the  great  Prophet 
repulsive  abuse  directed  at 
Muhammad — peace be upon him — and the wave of 
violent  protests  that  shook  the  Islamic  world  because 
of  a  ridiculous  movie  that  attacked  the  image  of  our 
Prophet  —  peace  be  upon  him  —  a  movie  that  nearly 
caused relations between East and West to unravel. We 
need  to  conduct  a  sincere  and  serious  examination  on 
how  to  prevent  the  recurrence  of  such  insults  through 
an international ban that criminalizes those who insult 
religions,  disrespect  religious  symbols  or  insult  the 
great prophets and messengers. Such actions constitute 
a blatant aggression against everything great, holy and 
sacred.  The  recurrence  of  those  obscene  actions  will 
supply  terrorists  with  prime  material  for  recruiting 
angry  youth  for  use  in  violent  actions  that  threaten 
peace and security, which could cause many casualties, 
as recent events have shown. 
We  therefore  clearly  need  to  contain  such  attacks 
and prohibit the production and dissemination of similar 
provocative materials. As nobody in the Islamic world 
is  able  to  contain  the  consequences  of  such  disregard 
for Islamic values and their sanctity, we believe that the 
United  Nations  should  play  a  central  and  constructive 
role in this matter, with a view to preventing potentially 
far-reaching and dangerous ramifications.
12-52343
23
A/67/PV.13
In  conclusion,  we,  the  people  and  Government  of 
Iraq, extend our hand to the other Member States with a 
view to increased collaboration aimed at achieving our 
common  goals.  Those  are  noble  goals,  based  on  lofty 
principles and cherished human values, and honour all 
human beings as supremely deserving of leading a free 
and  safe  life  and  enjoying  fundamental  freedoms.  We 
hope that when we meet again our world will be a safer 
place, our peoples will enjoy better conditions and the 
international climate will have improved.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic of Iraq for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Khudayr  al-Khuzai,  Vice-President  of  the 
Republic of Iraq, was escorted from the rostrum.
Address by Mr. Riek Machar Teny-Dhurgon, 
Vice-President of the Republic of South Sudan
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear  an  address  by  the  Vice-President  of  the  Republic 
of South Sudan.
Mr. Riek Machar Teny-Dhurgon, Vice-President of 
the  Republic  of  South  Sudan,  was  escorted  to  the 
rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  His  Excellency  Mr.  Riek  Machar  Teny-
Dhurgon,  Vice-President  of  the  Republic  of  South 
Sudan,  and  inviting  him  to  address  the  General 
Assembly.
Mr. Machar Teny-Dhurgon (South Sudan): Allow 
me,  at  the  outset,  to  join  fellow  Member  States  in 
congratulating  the  President  of  the  General  Assembly 
on his election to preside over the Assembly at its sixty-
seventh session and to commend his predecessor for his 
successful stewardship of the most recent session.
I  would  like  to  seize  this  momentous  occasion  to 
express  our  deepest  gratitude  and  appreciation  to  the 
Secretary-General  for  the  passion  and  compassion 
he  has  shown  in  responding  to  the  various  global 
challenges facing the Organization and, most important, 
his unwavering personal support for our referendum on 
self-determination,  our  independence  and  the  speedy 
admission  of  the  Republic  of  South  Sudan  into  the 
United Nations.
Furthermore,  we  are  also  deeply  grateful  to  the 
Assembly  for  the  warmth,  generosity  and  hospitality 
accorded  to  our  President  when  he  addressed  the 
Assembly  last  year.  He  made  that  address  at  the  time 
when  the  international  community  was  concerned 
about  the  viability  of  our  new  nation.  In  the  light  of 
the  progress  we  have  made  and  despite  recent  events, 
I  am  pleased  to  address  the  Assembly  this  year  under 
the theme of the sixty-seventh session “Bringing about 
adjustment  or  settlement  of  international  disputes  or 
situations by peaceful means”.
The  Republic  of  South  Sudan  achieved 
its 
independence  peacefully,  through  the  exercise  of  the 
right  of  self-determination  by  the  people  of  South 
Sudan  in  an  internationally  supervised  referendum, 
as  stipulated  in  the  Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement 
(CPA).  The 
international  community  played  an 
important  role  in  this,  our  independence  process.  We 
are therefore very thankful to all those who helped us 
achieve independence, not least the United Nations.
Our declaration of independence on 9 July 2011 did 
not resolve all the issues between us and the predecessor 
State,  the  Republic  of  the  Sudan.  These  unresolved, 
post-independence  issues  include  border  demarcation, 
oil  infrastructure,  security  and  the  final  status  of  the 
Abyei Area. The bilateral engagement between the two 
countries  failed  to  achieve  an  agreement.  As  a  result, 
the African Union intervened by mandating the African 
Union High-level Implementation Panel, under former 
President  Thabo  Mbeki,  to  facilitate  negotiations 
between the two parties.
As  the  situation  continued  to  deteriorate,  the 
Security  Council  intervened  and  adopted  resolution 
2046 (2012). That resolution sets out a clear road map 
for resolving all the remaining differences between the 
Sudan and South Sudan, including Abyei, and addresses 
the conf licts in Southern Kordofan and Blue Nile.
Before  I  discuss  the  developments  in  the  talks  in 
Addis  Ababa,  allow  me  to  also  brief  the  Assembly  on 
other issues of importance such as State-building, food 
security,  public  service  reform,  access  to  education, 
security and accountability in my country.
We have embarked upon laying a secure foundation 
for  a  prosperous,  democratic  and  stable  nation  by 
establishing institutions at the national, state and local 
Government  levels  for  governance  and  the  delivery  of 
services  to  the  people.  We  believe  that  food  security 
is  not  a  privilege  but  a  basic  right  of  each  and  every 
citizen  in  South  Sudan.  No  citizen  should  go  hungry. 
As the saying goes, a hungry man is an angry man. It 
24 
12-52343
A/67/PV.13
will  not  be  good  for  the  stability  of  the  country  if  we 
have many hungry and angry men. In our endeavour to 
achieve food security, we are diversifying the economy 
by  utilizing  oil  revenues  to  fuel  agriculture  and  build 
the necessary basic infrastructure. This is the only way 
we  can  benefit  from  the  vast  fertile  agricultural  lands 
that our country is generously endowed with.
Our  public  service  is  functioning  satisfactorily, 
especially after the introduction of far-reaching public 
service reforms. That has brought about efficiency and 
transparency  in  service  delivery.  We  have  introduced 
constructive  and  effective  reforms  in  our  public 
financial management and have strengthened measures 
to improve transparency and accountability.
As  for  education,  we  have  increased  access  to 
education  for  all  children  in  South  Sudan.  Since  the 
signing  of  the  Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement,  in 
2005, enrolment in our primary schools has more than 
doubled.  In  the  past  year,  we  continued  to  strengthen 
and expand the education sector by further introducing 
alternative  education.  This  innovative  notion  of  an 
alternative  education  system  is  currently  offering 
accelerated learning programmes to more than 200,000 
youth  and  adults.  Favourable  conditions  and  terms  of 
service  for  teachers  have  been  introduced  throughout 
the country, and the Government is working tirelessly 
to  meet  the  rapidly  increasing  demand  for  secondary 
education  caused  by  the  increase  in  primary  school 
enrolment.
However, the Government still has a long way to go 
in providing educational opportunities for our children 
and youth that prepare them for the future and meet their 
expectations  and  aspirations.  At  this  juncture,  allow 
me  to  commend  the  launch  by  the  Secretary-General 
of  the  Global  Initiative  on  Education,  which  we  hope 
will  open  up  avenues  of  collaboration  between  South 
Sudan  and  the  international  community  on  improving 
education access for our children.
Our nascent nation has been tested enormously in 
its first year of independence. We have been tested by 
conf licts within and beyond our borders; we have been 
tested by severe economic hardship; and we have been 
tested  by  the  revelation  of  severe  abuse  of  the  public 
trust  and  funds  resulting  partly  from  malpractice 
and  lack  of  capacity.  The  Government  is  undertaking 
serious corrective measures and institutional capacity-
building to address that issue in order to restore public 
confidence.
My  Government  is  striving  harder  than  ever  to 
combat  corruption  in  our  public  service.  Along  with 
reformed systems for management of public funds and 
tighter  controls,  we  are  combating  corruption  through 
the  rule  of  law  and  through  greater  transparency  and 
accountability. The Government has enacted legislation 
that  holds  public  officials  accountable  and  brings  the 
management  of  our  resources  closer  to  international 
standards.
The  Government  has  published  the  entire  annual 
budget  and  opened  our  books  to  public  scrutiny.  By 
the  end  of  the  year,  we  aim  to  be  up  to  date  on  all  of 
the  audits  of  our  national  accounts  since  the  signing 
of  the  Comprehensive  Peace  Agreement,  in  2005.  As 
an  accountable  Government  before  our  people,  we 
still  believe  that  there  is  a  long  way  ahead  to  achieve 
the  efficiency,  transparency  and  accountability  in  our 
public  service  and  financial  management.  Despite  the 
economic  peril  since  the  shut-down  of  oil  production, 
we  are,  nevertheless,  encouraged  that  the  current 
period of austerity has strengthened our resolve to press 
ahead  in  our  reform  agenda  and  has  allowed  us  to  lay 
a strong foundation for more efficient and accountable 
governance beyond the austerity period — tough times 
never last, but tough people do.
With  regard  to  security,  the  Republic  of  South 
Sudan  is  currently  facing  security  threats  in  the  form 
of armed militia groups that are creating insecurity and 
undermining  our  young  democracy.  The  Government 
has accorded the highest priority to reaching a peaceful 
resolution to these internal conf licts. Four of the armed 
militia groups have laid down their weapons and have 
integrated  voluntarily  into  our  national  army  and 
civilian life.
We  believe  that  the  internal  and  external  security 
of  our  nation  is  a  prerequisite  for  having  meaningful 
economic development and social progress. While we are 
working  tirelessly  towards  achieving  and  maintaining 
peace  within  our  borders,  critical  unresolved  issues 
remain between South Sudan and the Sudan, including 
border  demarcation,  citizenship  rights,  the  status  of 
Abyei  and  oil-related  issues.  The  lack  of  progress  on 
those post-independence issues has been posing a threat 
to peace and stable relations between the two countries.
Our  relations  with  the  Sudan  reached  a  critical 
juncture  last  year,  when  Khartoum  blocked  tankers 
loaded  with  our  crude  oil  and  prevented  them  from 
departing  from  Port  Sudan.  In  addition,  Sudan  seized 
12-52343
25
A/67/PV.13
and  resold  crude  oil  that  we  had  sold  to  international 
customers. By January, we had lost some $800 million 
in revenues. At that point, my Government was left with 
no choice but to shut down oil production. The decision 
was publicly supported by the majority of our people.
In the context of relations of South Sudan and the 
Sudan,  it  is  incumbent  upon  my  Government  to  shed 
some  light  of  what  became  known  as  the  Heglig  or 
Panthou  incident  between  us  and  the  Republic  of  the 
Sudan.  That  crisis  was  the  result  of  increasing  border 
tensions and repeated bombings in the border areas of 
my country by the Sudanese Armed Forces.
In April, our forces clashed with the Sudanese army 
in an area inside South Sudan, several kilometers south 
of Heglig. That resulted in our armed forces taking over 
Heglig temporarily; we acted in self-defence to prevent 
Heglig from being used as a launching pad for military 
attacks by the Sudanese Armed Forces on our country.
In  compliance  with  advice  from  the  international 
community,  we  withdraw  our  forces  soon  thereafter. 
Although Heglig is historically part of South Sudan, it 
was not our intention to take it by force. We believe that 
we can settle the matter through peaceful negotiations.
Another area in which we believe we have not been 
well  understood  by  the  international  community  is 
our  alleged  support  for  the  Sudan  People’s  Liberation 
Movement  –  North  (SPLM-North).  What  may  not  be 
fully  appreciated  by  outside  observers  is  that  those 
forces  were  integral  members  of  the  SPLM.  But 
although  they  fought  side  by  side  with  us,  they  were 
not  fighting  for  the  independence  of  southern  Sudan, 
but  for  their  own  cause  through  alliance  with  us.  Of 
course, we shared a common vision of creating a new, 
fundamentally restructured united Sudan of inclusivity, 
equity and dignity for all, without discrimination on the 
basis of race, ethnicity, religion or culture. But we also 
had issues that were specific to our particular situation 
and which, for us, eventually led to our independence.
It should be recalled that the CPA included a special 
protocol  on  Southern  Kordofan  and  Blue  Nile  states 
that  addressed  their  special  grievances.  That  protocol 
is yet to be credibly implemented. As the SPLM-North 
were former allies who contributed significantly to our 
success in achieving the objectives of our struggle, we 
obviously have a moral and, indeed, political obligation 
to assist them in addressing their legitimate grievances, 
as stipulated and agreed in the CPA.
In  that  connection,  South  Sudan  is  currently 
carrying  the  burden  of  accommodating  an  increasing 
number of refugees from the two areas. We therefore call 
upon the international community to assist in meeting 
the  humanitarian  needs  of  the  refugees  within  South 
Sudan, as well as throughout the Sudanese territory for 
those internally displaced by the conf lict.
Our  President  stated  in  his  statement  at  our 
independence celebration:
“We cannot abandon them, but would support their 
cause  peacefully  through  negotiated  settlement 
between them and the Government of the Sudan”. 
South  Sudan  will  use  its  good  offices  as  a  former 
ally  of  the  SPLM-North  to  assist  the  Sudan  by  acting 
as  an  honest  broker  in  mediating  a  peaceful,  but  just, 
resolution  of  the  conf lict.  We  believe  that  our  role  as 
honest brokers will in the long term assist our neighbour 
to the north, the Government of the Sudan, to achieve 
peace and stability. We are glad that the United Nations 
recognizes  that  there  can  be  no  military  solution  to 
the conf lict and that a negotiated settlement is the way 
forward.
I  am  pleased  to  inform  the  Assembly  that,  today, 
President  Salva  Kiir  Mayardit  and  President  Omer 
Hassan A. Al-Bashir signed an agreement that will allow 
the two countries to pursue their national development 
efforts under a secure and lasting peace. We are hopeful 
that the new agreement with the Sudan will lead to the 
resolution  of  our  differences  on  security,  borders  and 
the use of petroleum infrastructure.
It is envisaged that if each side upholds its part of 
this  agreement,  the  most  significant  causes  of  dispute 
between  our  two  countries  will  have  been  amicably 
resolved.  Diplomacy  will  have  won,  and  reason  will 
have prevailed. 
With 
the 
resolution  of 
those  key  matters, 
preparations  to  resume  oil  production  in  South  Sudan 
will now begin. The following agreements were signed 
today between our two countries: first, the Agreement 
Concerning  Oil  and  Related  Economic  Matters; 
second,  the  Framework  Agreement  on  the  Status  of 
Nationals  of  the  Other  State;  third,  the  Agreement  on 
the Demarcation of the Boundary; fourth, an agreement 
on border issues; fifth, the Agreement on a Framework 
for  Cooperation  on  Central  Banking  Issues;  sixth,  the 
Agreement on Trade and Trade-related Issues; seventh, 
the Agreement on Certain Economic Matters: Division 
of Assets and Liabilities, Arrears and Claims and Joint 
26 
12-52343
Approach to the International Community; and, finally, 
eighth, the Framework Agreement to Facilitate Payment 
of Post-Service Benefits.
While  we  are  happy  with  all  that  has  been  agreed 
today by our two countries, I wish to inform the General 
Assembly  that  we  have  failed  to  reach  agreement  on 
Abyei.  President  Al-Bashir  has  rejected  the  proposal 
of 
the  African  Union  High-level  Implementation 
Panel, 
under  Security  Council 
resolution  2046  (2012).  It  is  now  incumbent  upon  the 
African  Union  (AU)  Peace  and  Security  Council, 
together  with  the  United  Nations  Security  Council,  to 
take the action necessary to move forward.
stipulated 
as 
We are thankful to both the AU Peace and Security 
Council  and  the  United  Nations  Security  Council 
for  their  great  efforts  to  bring  about  this  agreement 
between our two countries.
As  our  President  stated  in  this  forum  one  year 
ago,  “The  ambition  of  the  people  of  South  Sudan  is 
to  be  able  to  transform  their  country  into  a  regional 
agro-industrial  powerhouse”  (see  A/66/PV.19),  with 
reduced  dependence  on  external  assistance,  and  the 
potential to feed the people of South Sudan and to be a 
breadbasket for East Africa.
Our  strategy  is  aimed  at  utilizing  oil  wealth  as 
a  catalyst  to  stimulate  our  economic  development 
potential, with an emphasis on agriculture.
We are conscious of the fact that we cannot achieve 
those  goals  alone.  We  need  continued  support  from 
friends,  partners  and  the  international  community. 
We  are  confident  that  together  we  shall  overcome  the 
challenges  ahead.  I  take  this  opportunity  once  more, 
on  behalf  of  the  people  and  the  Government  of  South 
Sudan, to express our profound gratitude for the support 
rendered to us by the United Nations, the AU, regional 
organizations, friends and partners.
Mr. Momen (Bangladesh), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.
Finally,  allow  me  to  reiterate  the  resolve  and  the 
commitment  of  the  people  and  the  Government  of 
the  Republic  of  South  Sudan  to  be  a  productive  and 
active member of this global family of nations, and to 
make their contribution to promoting world peace and 
prosperity for all humankind.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Vice-President  of  the 
A/67/PV.13
Republic  of  South  Sudan  for  the  statement  he  has  just 
made.
Mr. Riek Machar Teny-Dhurgon, Vice-President of 
the Republic of South Sudan, was escorted from the 
rostrum.
Address by Mr. Winston Baldwin Spencer, 
Prime Minister and Minister for Foreign Affairs 
of Antigua and Barbuda 
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
hear an address by the Prime Minister and Minister for 
Foreign Affairs of Antigua and Barbuda.
Mr.  Winston  Baldwin  Spencer,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda, was escorted to the rostrum.
The  Acting  President:  I  have  great  pleasure  in 
welcoming  Mr.  Winston  Baldwin  Spencer,  Prime 
Minister  and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Antigua 
and Barbuda, and inviting him to address the General 
Assembly.
Mr.  Spencer  (Antigua  and  Barbuda):  I  wish  at 
the  outset  to  extend  my  heartiest  congratulations  and 
the  assurances  of  my  cooperation  and  highest  esteem 
to  President  Jeremić  on  his  election  to  the  presidency 
of  the  General  Assembly  at  its  sixty-seventh  session. 
Antigua  and  Barbuda  looks  forward  to  his  leadership 
and guidance throughout this session.
I  extend  congratulations  also  to  your  predecessor, 
Mr.  Nassir  Abdulaziz  Al-Nasser,  on  a  job  well  done 
and  for  his  continued  service  to  the  international 
community.
The  theme  of  the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the 
General  Assembly,  “Bringing  about  adjustment  or 
settlement  of 
international  disputes  or  situations 
by  peaceful  means”,  is  judicious,  for  it  accurately 
summarizes  how  we  as  nations  need  to  act  in  these 
precarious  times  of  insecurity  and  uncertainty.  These 
times and circumstances call for a heightened sense of 
urgency and a stronger will among all nations to work 
with  and  through  the  United  Nations  in  embracing 
multilateralism in its truest form.
The  sixty-seventh  session  of  the  Assembly  is 
taking place in an environment of continued challenges 
to  international  peace  and  security;  international 
democracy is being tested; there is unbearable poverty 
throughout  the  world;  the  sluggish  recovery  of  the 
12-52343
27
A/67/PV.13
world’s  economy  provides  little  hope;  and  disasters 
induced by climate change are becoming more rampant.
As  we  look  around  our  global  community,  we  ask 
ourselves  what  we  can  do  to  solve  the  many  problems 
we  face,  and  how  we  can  find  and  maintain  the  peace 
that  we  so  desire.  Maybe  if  we  ask  ourselves  not  as 
individuals but as nations what peace is, then, perhaps, 
we can collectively resolve to find the answer so as to 
achieve peace.
For  Antigua  and  Barbuda,  peace  means  respect 
for human rights and the differences of others and the 
protection of women, children and the elderly. Peace is 
devoid of greed that ends in unparalleled wealth for a few 
and  nauseating  poverty  for  many.  Peace  means  global 
health  awareness,  protection  and  accessibility  for  all. 
Peace  means  democracies  with  active  global  citizens, 
by non-violent change. Peace means eliminating nuclear 
weapons and controlling small arms.
Peace 
is  free  of  violence  and  requires 
the 
acceptance of differences in race, gender and religion. 
Peace  is  a  position  from  which  to  value  the  limits  of 
nature’s  resources,  and  it  is  characterized  by  the 
absence  of  the  ignorance  and  shortsightedness  that 
leads some to selfishly plunder Earth’s plenty. Peace is 
the  understanding  that  climate  change  is  real  and  that 
sustainability should be our priority. Peace means fair 
trade and equality of equity in globalization.
Peace is the elimination of corruption in Government. 
Peace is the understanding and the recognition that the 
world’s  problems  can  be  solved  only  by  the  inclusion 
of  all  countries.  Peace  therefore  involves  a  wider  and 
equal representation in the Security Council rather than 
membership by a selected few.
In  2011,  we  celebrated  the  International  Year  for 
Peoples  of  African  Descent.  That  year  has  passed, 
and  gone  from  the  international  agenda  is  the  issue 
of  reparations  for  slavery,  which  is  central  to  fighting 
racism  and  racial  discrimination  and  nurturing  a 
culture  of  peace  among  nations.  The  legacy  of  racial 
violence,  segregation  and  slavery  against  peoples  of 
African descent has severely impaired our advancement 
as  nations,  communities  and  individuals  across  the 
political, social and, most importantly, the economical 
spectrums.  In  the  words  of  Kwame  Nkrumah,  we  can 
no longer afford the luxury of delay. The time has come 
for us to revisit the issue of reparations for slavery and 
place it at the top of the international agenda.
Over 200 million persons in the Americas depend 
on  us.  That  is  why  I  am  reiterating  a  call  I  made  in 
the  Hall  in  2011  for  former  slave  States  to  begin  the 
reconciliation  process  by  issuing  formal  apologies  for 
the  crimes  committed  by  the  nations  or  their  citizens 
over  the  400  years  of  the  African  slave  trade.  While 
nations in the developing world continue to grapple with 
the effects of a world economic crisis that is not of their 
own  making,  I  call  on  former  slave  States  to  back  up 
their apologies with new commitments to the economic 
development  of  those  nations  that  have  suffered  from 
that human tragedy.
is 
threatening 
Transnational  crime 
the  very 
existence of peace in Antigua and Barbuda. Our small 
size  and  lack  of  human  and  financial  resources  make 
it  difficult  for  us,  as  a  small  island  nation,  to  address 
that  problem  in  an  effective  manner.  The  crime  and 
violence  fuelled  by  the  illicit  trade  in  small  arms  and 
light  weapons  are  jeopardizing  our  major  industries, 
including tourism. Our health-care systems are weighted 
down, and families are being torn apart. Nevertheless, 
crime  prevention  and  small  arms  control  is  a  priority 
for my Government. It is important to note that neither 
Antigua  and  Barbuda  nor  our  Caribbean  Community 
brothers  and  sisters  manufacture  small  arms  or  light 
weapons,  yet  one  recent  estimate  indicates  that  there 
are 1.6 million illegal firearms in the region.
Additionally,  Antigua  and  Barbuda  is  deeply 
saddened  by  the  fact  that,  despite  significant  efforts, 
strong  will  on  the  part  of  the  majority  of  States  and 
the  fact  that  a  compromise  was  potentially  within 
reach, there was no agreement on a text for the recently 
discussed  legally  binding  arms  trade  treaty.  The 
Assembly  can  rest  assured  that  Antigua  and  Barbuda 
will not give up, and we will continue to advocate for a 
legally binding treaty that will eliminate the threat that 
is crippling our region.
Antigua and Barbuda is committed to the rule of law 
and  the  process  it  enables  for  direct  political  dialogue 
and  cooperation  among  all  States  and  international 
actors.  The  rule  of  law  facilitates  international  peace 
and security, human rights and development for all. Our 
joint responses to the threats to peace and security, along 
with  the  opportunities  arising  from  various  political, 
economic and social instabilities, must be guided by the 
rule of law, as it is the basis for friendly coexistence and 
interdependence between and among States.
28 
12-52343
My Government upholds the ideals of the recently 
concluded High-level Meeting on the Rule of Law at the 
National and International Levels and stands committed 
to upholding that very important principle.
The Caribbean has been known as a zone of peace. 
We value our ability to live and work together despite 
our  different  religious  and  political  beliefs  and  ethnic 
backgrounds. Antigua and Barbuda therefore condemns 
the  brutal  killing  of  the  United  States  Ambassador  to 
Libya and the destruction of the United States Consulate 
in Libya. We condemn any acts of violence or killings 
disguised as actions to defend religious belief. If we are 
to build an environment of peace around the world, we 
must show tolerance for all peoples and beliefs.
The  dangers  posed  by  non-State  actors  acquiring 
weapons  of  mass  destruction  are  real  and  should  be 
seen by all countries, large and small, as the single most 
destructive element threatening international peace and 
security. Antigua and Barbuda is particularly concerned 
by the lack of progress in the area of disarmament and 
non-proliferation.  There  should  be  no  compromise  on 
that issue. Antigua and Barbuda remains resolute in our 
continued call for a nuclear-weapon-free world.
The  recently  concluded  Rio+20  Conference  on 
Sustainable  Development  provided  an  international 
platform from which to address the social, economic and 
environmental  challenges  affecting  the  international 
community.  Those  challenges  are  direct  threats  to 
humankind  and  oftentimes 
jeopardize  peace  and 
security for all.
In resolution 66/288, entitled “The future we want”, 
Antigua  and  Barbuda  saw  the  Rio+20  Conference  as 
securing  comprehensive  and  inclusive  sustainability 
for  small  island  nations,  whose  survival  is  contingent 
on  an  outcome  of  commitments  and  actions  from  the 
Conference.
At  the  recently  concluded  summit  of  the  Alliance 
of  Small  Island  States,  my  country  joined  with  other 
small  island  States  in  sending  a  strong  message  to 
the  international  community  on  the  need  for  bold  and 
ambitious  actions.  We  cannot  wait  for  our  lands  to 
disappear before we act. We must act now to respond to 
the climate crisis and ensure that not a single country is 
sacrificed, no matter how small.
The threat is real. Our sea levels are rising, there is 
coral bleaching beyond our shores, and hurricanes are 
becoming  more  recurrent  and  severe.  The  Conference 
A/67/PV.13
of  the  Parties  to  the  United  Nations  Framework 
Convention on Climate Change needs to take concrete 
steps in order to protect small island developing States 
and other exposed countries from the threats of climate 
change.
The  responsibility  to  mitigate  climate  change 
should be at the forefront of the collective consciousness 
of both developing and developed countries. However, 
developed countries should accept their responsibilities 
as  the  leading  contributors  to  the  extremely  high 
levels  of  greenhouse  gases  in  the  atmosphere,  which 
are  now  threatening  the  welfare  of  present  and  future 
generations. It is my Government’s hope that the selfish 
act of inaction will dissipate in Doha and that a positive 
outcome in the climate change negotiations will usher 
in  new  hopes  for  humanity  and  compassion  for  our 
planet.
Antigua  and  Barbuda  is  doing  its  part  to  protect 
Mother  Earth.  My  Government  has  embarked  on  a 
renewable  energy  mandate.  We  are  now  shifting  our 
focus  towards  harvesting  water  and  wind  to  meet  our 
energy  needs.  We  are  protecting  our  ecosystem  with 
strong  legislation,  and  we  are  replanting  mangroves 
and  protecting  areas  that  are  sensitive  to  pollutants. 
Climate  change  and  sustainability  are  high  on  my 
Government’s  development  and  investment  priorities, 
and  we  are  ensuring  that  new  and  refurbished  private 
and commercial investments are in line with our green 
approach to our society.
My  Government  also  joins  with  member  States  of 
the  Alliance  of  Small  Island  States  in  calling  on  the 
General Assembly to designate 2014 as the International 
Year of Small Island Developing States in order to raise 
awareness  of  the  special  situation  of  our  members 
and  mobilize  international  support  for  our  sustainable 
development.
Over the past year, the United Nations Stabilization 
Mission  in  Haiti  has  made  important  progress  in  its 
support  to  the  Haitian  people’s  efforts  to  consolidate 
democracy,  stability  and  the  rule  of  law  and  to  move 
forward on the path to social and economic development. 
In  spite  of  the  progress  made,  the  situation  in  Haiti 
remains fragile, as the country strives to overcome its 
daunting political, social and economic challenges. 
I  therefore  stress  the  need  for  adequate  funding 
and continued implementation of the Mission in Haiti. I 
would like to reiterate my Government’s strong support 
for  the  Mission  in  Haiti  and  to  stress  that  peace  will 
12-52343
29
A/67/PV.13
only be achieved if we simultaneously address issues of 
security, national reconciliation and development. I also 
call on those nations that pledged assistance to Haiti to 
honour their commitments. Those pledges are urgently 
needed,  now  that  the  rebuilding  phase  is  progressing 
under a new Administration.
It has been nearly ﬁ ve years since we started to see a 
sharp downturn in the world’s economy. Unfortunately, 
Antigua and Barbuda is among the small and developing 
States  that  have  yet  to  see  significant  improvements. 
While  we  have  made  several  attempts  to  curtail  the 
haemorrhaging  of  our  fragile  economies,  it  must  be 
said  that  we  need  greater  cooperation,  f lexibility 
and  inclusion  on  the  part  of  our  developed  partners. 
Gross domestic product can no longer be the criterion 
used  in  accessing  concessionary  financing  and  other 
international  financial  relief;  instead,  mechanisms 
should be put in place that take into consideration a host 
of other elements, including the fragility of economies.
the 
the 
trade  and 
We  are  still  in  a  crisis,  a  crisis  of  confidence  in 
institutional  capacity 
global  governance  and 
international  financial  system, 
for  managing 
international 
international  development 
policies. We  are  also  living  in  the  era  of  globalization 
where  cooperative  collectives  —  and  not  ambitious 
and selfish empires — must be the order of the day in 
international  financial  governance.  A  privileged  few 
should  never  be  allowed  to  make  financial  decisions 
that  impact  the  socioeconomic  livelihood  of  millions 
without  regard  for  that  excluded  majority.  Economic 
prosperity  should  be  shared  equally  among  countries 
and  within  countries.  The  exclusive  clubs  of  the 
Group  of  Eight  and  the  Group  of  20  cannot  repair  the 
fragmented  international  financial  system  without 
taking due consideration of the majority of nations left 
on the outside with much to offer.
My  Government  calls  on  developed  countries 
and  the  countries  of  the  Organization  for  Economic 
Cooperation  and  Development  to  guarantee  that  their 
response  with  regard  to  international  tax  matters  will 
involve improved international cooperation on tax issues 
through comprehensive and supportive frameworks that 
ensure  the  involvement  and  equal  treatment  of  small 
jurisdictions  like  Antigua  and  Barbuda  without  the 
nuances of inappropriately branding us as tax havens.
Antigua  and  Barbuda  has  been  proactive  in  its 
approach  to  diversifying  our  economy.  We  entered 
into  the  international  gaming  sector  abiding  by  all 
prescribed 
international  standards.  Unfortunately, 
our  friend  and  developed  partner,  the  United  States 
of  America,  was  of  the  view  that  our  gaming  sector 
contravened  its  domestic  laws.  Antigua  and  Barbuda 
found  it  appropriate  to  seek  international  redress  on 
the  matter  through  the  dispute  resolution  mechanism 
at  the  World  Trade  Organization.  We  prevailed,  and 
the  United  States  was  ordered  to  compensate  Antigua 
and Barbuda for its losses. Yet, years later, Antigua and 
Barbuda is still engaging in negotiations with the United 
States. I therefore call on the Government of the United 
States to work with us to quickly resolve the matter so 
that  we  can  arrive  at  a  settlement  that  is  fair  and  just. 
I  also  call  on  the  United  States  to  work  cooperatively 
with  Antigua  and  Barbuda  and  other  remote  gaming 
jurisdictions  to  forge  an  enlightened,  reasonable  and 
reasoned way of addressing the regulation and licensing 
of remote gaming services.
While  we  are  on  the  matter  of  trade  disputes,  it 
has been decades since the United States instituted its 
embargo on Cuba. Time and time again the international 
community, acting through the General Assembly, has 
called  on  the  United  States  to  lift  that  trade  embargo. 
However, it continues unabated. Since its inception, the 
embargo has inf licted untold economic damage on the 
Cuban people, caused shortages and needless suffering 
to  the  Cuban  population,  limited  and  restrained  the 
development  of  the  country  and  seriously  damaged 
the  Cuban  economy.  Through  all  of  that,  the  Cuban 
people  have  managed  to  preserve  their  sovereignty, 
independence  and  right  to  self-determination.  As  a 
country  committed  to  the  norms  of  the  multilateral 
trading  system  and  to  the  freedom  of  trade  and 
navigation and a country that rejects the extraterritorial 
application of another country’s national laws, Antigua 
and Barbuda calls on the United States to immediately 
and  unconditionally  lift  its  economic  embargo  against 
the  people  of  Cuba.  It  is  time  to  turn  a  new  page  of 
peace, cooperation and understanding, a time for global 
healing  and  international  community-building.  The 
continuation  of  the  embargo  further  destroys  the  very 
fabric of hope that we have created as a community of 
nations in order to resolve the world’s issues.
The  world  is  changing.  Economies,  policies  and 
countries  are  becoming  more  intertwined  than  ever 
before. Antigua and Barbuda sees those relationships of 
integration as positive steps towards achieving a world 
that  is  not  dominated  by  a  few  but  represents  rather  a 
30 
12-52343
A/67/PV.13
unification of leadership in the hope of combating most 
of the world’s shortcomings.
collaborate in the development of a food policy that will 
address some of the risk factors for NCDs.
The smaller developing countries in the Caribbean 
and  the  Organization  of  Eastern  Caribbean  States 
(OECS) are poised to make great strides in our integration 
agenda. The ratification of the OECS Economic Union 
is  a  major  step  in  that  direction.  We  have  a  stable 
shared currency, with a monetary council that has been 
instrumental in preventing further deterioration of our 
economies.  There  have  been  renewed  commitments 
by  all  of  the  Caribbean  Community  countries  to  work 
tirelessly to realize the full potential of the Caribbean 
Single Market and Economy. Antigua and Barbuda has 
joined  the  Bolivarian  Alliance  for  the  Peoples  of  Our 
America,  an  institution  that  is  built  on  the  principles 
of 
solidarity,  complementarity  and  cooperation. 
The  Community  of  Latin  America  and  Caribbean 
States — a new integration arm within our region — the 
geographical  position  of  our  countries,  our  shared 
cultures  and  values  and  our  desires  as  developing 
partners for a more just global community that is built 
on  fairness  and  peace  give  my  Government  hope  that 
all is not lost as regards multilateralism.
Antigua and Barbuda faces many challenges in the 
prevention,  care  and  treatment  of  non-communicable 
diseases  (NCDs).  Heart  disease,  diabetes,  cancer, 
cardiovascular disease and chronic respiratory diseases 
continue  to  be  the  leading  causes  of  death  in  Antigua 
and  Barbuda,  with  cancer  and  heart  disease  being  the 
top  two  causes.  The  burdens  of  the  cost,  the  loss  of 
productivity  and  the  disabilities  as  a  result  of  chronic 
diseases  continue  to  weigh  heavy  on  our  health-care 
system,  since  treatment  for  those  diseases  and  their 
complications, 
chemotherapy 
and  drug  therapy,  continue  to  be  offered  free  of  cost 
to  patients.  The  fight  against  NCDs  remains  high, 
therefore, on Antigua and Barbuda’s health agenda.
including  dialysis, 
Following  our  participation  in  the  United  Nations 
High-level  Meeting  on  the  subject  last  year,  the 
Government  of  Antigua  and  Barbuda  approved  the 
establishment  of  a  multisectoral  NCD  commission 
to  provide  leadership  in  that  critical  area,  drafted 
legislation  for  tobacco  control,  engaged  civil  society 
and  non-governmental  organizations  in  drafting  an 
NCD policy and action plan and has supported plans for 
the  development  of  a  comprehensive  cancer  treatment 
centre  in  Antigua  and  Barbuda  to  serve  the  OECS. 
The  Ministries  of  Health  and  Agriculture  continue  to 
The  fight  against  HIV/AIDS  in  my  region  is  also 
real. The figures are heartbreaking, and the outlook is 
troubling.  Despite  some  progress,  much  still  needs  to 
be  done  to  achieve  the  2015  goal  of  universal  access 
to  HIV  prevention,  treatment,  support  and  care.  My 
Government  is  in  the  process  of  updating  the  code  of 
conduct  to  prevent  discrimination  in  the  workplace 
against  persons  living  with  HIV/AIDS.  We  will  not 
tolerate injustice, intolerance and violence of any kind 
against persons living with HIV/AIDS.
Many might believe that for countries like Antigua 
and  Barbuda,  as  a  small  island  developing  State,  our 
only concern is for development, but I stand here today 
with  grave  concern  that  the  disregard  for  world  peace 
and security threatens the very existence of humankind 
and will push the international community into further 
chaos and destruction. We cannot ignore from our tiny 
peaceful  shores  the  images  that  glare  from  our  TV 
screens  of  unrest,  protest  and  demonstrations  from 
various corners of the world. The images are daunting, 
the  voices  of  change  are  deafening  and  the  use  of 
force or threat of use of force to suppress the voices of 
democracy is intolerable. The United Nations has to be 
unified in its response so as to act in a peaceful manner 
while protecting the rights of populations near and far.
The  situation  in  Syria  is  disheartening.  Children, 
women  and  the  elderly  must  be  protected.  I  call  on 
both sides to exercise restraint and allow humanitarian 
relief supplies to enter Syria. I also call on all nations 
to cease supplying arms to the two sides in the conf lict. 
As  leaders,  our  priority  must  be  to  urge  all  parties  in 
Syria  to  implement  a  ceasefire  and  stop  the  violence 
immediately  and  completely.  Every  effort  must  be 
made to implement Mr. Annan’s six-point proposal and 
the  relevant  Security  Council  resolutions.  The  United 
Nations and the Arab League must lead in that process. 
Any threats of war must be suppressed, and negotiation 
and mediation should be the order of the day. If it is not 
addressed,  the  Syrian  crisis  will  soon  pose  a  serious 
threat  to  international  peace  and  security.  Antigua 
and Barbuda will continue to give its support to a just, 
peaceful and appropriate settlement of the Syrian crisis 
at an early date.
These are undeniably perilous times. An event can 
occur  in  a  distant  part  of  the  globe  that  can  severely 
impact  Antigua  and  Barbuda  domestically,  an  event 
12-52343
31
A/67/PV.13
that  completely  ignores  the  importance  of  achieving 
tolerance  by  peaceful  means.  Our  response  may  be 
one  of  indignation  but  also  a  sense  that  we  live  in  a 
perilous atmosphere characterized by the intolerance of 
peace.  The  multiplicity  and  interconnectedness  of  the 
many global threats and challenges we face will test the 
abilities  of  this  Assembly.  Is  the  United  Nations  up  to 
the task?
I am confident that by sharing our collective wisdom 
and using it as a resource, the General Assembly at its 
sixty-seventh session will take decisions of meaningful 
and  enduring  benefit  and  peace  for  the  peoples  of  the 
world.  I  am  equally  confident  that  our  deliberations 
can lead to solutions that will ensure the protection of 
all  our  peoples.  I  therefore  call  on  all  of  us,  as  world 
leaders, to rise to the challenges and move with haste to 
bring peace to the citizens of the world. We are leaders 
and caretakers of humankind and, as such, our response 
to  those  challenges  will  be  recorded  in  the  books  of 
history, which will reveal whether we had the ability to 
act with constraint, effectiveness and fairness in order 
to achieve stability through peaceful means. Let peace 
reign.
The  Acting  President:  On  behalf  of  the  General 
Assembly,  I  wish  to  thank  the  Prime  Minister  and 
Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Antigua  and  Barbuda 
for the statement he has just made.
Mr.  Winston  Baldwin  Spencer,  Prime  Minister 
and  Minister  for  Foreign  Affairs  of  Antigua  and 
Barbuda, was escorted from the rostrum.
The meeting rose at 6.55 p.m.
32 
12-52343
