United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
55th plenary meeting
Thursday, 13 December 2012, 3 p.m.
New York
A/67/PV.55
Ofﬁ cial Records
President:
Mr. Jeremić   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Serbia)
In the absence of the President, Mr. Kamau (Kenya), 
Vice-President, took the Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 3.10 p.m.
Agenda item 70 (continued)
Strengthening of the coordination of humanitarian 
and disaster relief assistance of the United Nations, 
including special economic assistance
ReportoftheSecretary-General(А/67/492)
Draftresolutions(А/67/L.32andA/67/L.37)
(a)Strengtheningofthecoordinationofemergency
humanitarian assistance of the United Nations
ReportsoftheSecretary-General(А/67/89,
А/67/361,А/67/363andА/67/367)
Draftresolution(А/67/L.39)
(b)AssistancetothePalestinianpeople
ReportoftheSecretary-General(А/67/84)
Draftresolution(A/67/L.38)
(c)Specialeconomicassistancetoindividual
countries or regions
Mrs.Davidovich (Israel): The State of Israel has 
a  long-standing  tradition  of  providing  humanitarian 
assistance  to  nations  in  need,  and  2012  has  been  no 
exception. 
Following  the  severe  flooding  in  Fiji  in  January, 
the  Israeli  Government  donated  funds  to  support  the 
work  of  the  Red  Cross  in  providing  assistance  to  the 
flood victims. A month later, when a fire engulfed the 
Comayagua prison in Honduras, leaving more than 300 
inmates dead, Israel donated medical supplies to treat 
those who had been injured in the fire. In the wake of the 
devastating explosions in Brazzaville, Congo, in March, 
Israel sent medical equipment for the treatment of burns 
through  our  Agency  for  International  Development 
Cooperation,  MASHAV,  in  partnership  with  Magen 
David  Adom  South  Africa.  In  response  to  the  most 
recent  food  crisis  to  emerge  across  the  Sahel  region, 
Israel  has  remained  engaged  in  supporting  the  work 
of  the  World  Food  Programme  by  donating  $200,000 
to  help  the  millions  of  people  facing  the  combined 
threat  of  drought,  high  food  prices,  displacement  and 
chronic poverty. Finally, the Israeli non-governmental 
organization  IsraAID  is  working  in  both  Haiti  and 
Japan  to  assist  with  the  ongoing  rebuilding  efforts  in 
those  countries.  It  has  also  mounted  a  multifaceted 
campaign  to  deliver  aid  to  Hurricane  Sandy’s  victims 
in  New  York.  Its  efforts  are  focused  on  two  fronts: 
immediate  on-site  assistance  and  long-term  aid  for 
those most affected.
Israel’s  humanitarian  assistance  is  guided  by  a 
comprehensive approach. We believe that preparedness 
must stand at the core of disaster response. The most 
valuable lesson we can learn in the wake of disasters is 
that investing in disaster risk reduction is critical. The 
costs  of  responding  to  disaster  significantly  outweigh 
the  costs  of  preventing  their  impact  through  risk 
reduction.
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-64810 (E)
*1264810*
A/67/PV.55
As  a  small  but  densely  populated  country,  Israel 
is  always  looking  to  find  new  and  innovative  ways 
to  reduce  the  risk  of  disasters.  Addressing  urban 
risk  through  public  investment  is  an  issue  that  Israel 
takes  very  seriously.  In  2005,  the  Israeli  Government 
initiated  a  nationwide  programme  called  Tama  38, 
which offers tax and planning incentives to the private 
sector to reinforce buildings that do not comply with the 
earthquake-resistance provisions of the Israeli building 
code,  which  was  standardized  in  1980.  The  plan  also 
grants renovation permits to Israeli homeowners living 
in pre-1980 buildings.
Israel strongly believes that the impact of natural 
disasters  can  be  substantially  reduced  if  people  are 
well informed through a culture of disaster prevention 
and  resilience  promoted  by  their  Governments.  In 
that  spirit,  Israel  has  given  great  priority  to  public-
awareness campaigns while holding national emergency 
drills  every  year.  These  nationwide  drills  emphasize 
coordination among Government agencies, emergency 
and medical response units, local municipalities and the 
media.  This  year’s  exercise,  held  in  October,  focused 
specifically on nationwide coordination in the event of 
an earthquake.
For  decades,  MASHAV  has  been  working  to 
strengthen  countries’  capacities  to  cope  with  disaster 
impacts  by  conducting  courses  on  emergency  and 
disaster medicine around the world. The courses train 
doctors, nurses, medical technicians and administrators 
to  deal  with  mass-casualty  events.  MASHAV  offers 
theoretical training and organizes practical simulation 
the  disaster  scenarios 
exercises  relevant 
that 
particular countries or regions are likely to face.
to 
roster 
includes 
response 
In the past few years, Israel’s cooperation with the 
United Nations Disaster Assessment and Coordination 
Team  (UNDAC),  has  increased  considerably.  Israel 
is  a  member  of  UNDAC,  and  we  are  proud  that  the 
emergency 
Israeli 
experts. Our cooperation continued to grow this year, 
following  UNDAC’s  participation  in  our  national 
security  exercise,  which  simulated  an  earthquake  and 
the  coordination  of  international  assistance.  Building 
resilient communities demands preparation at all levels. 
Coordination among the public, private and non-profit 
sectors,  as  well  as  at  the  national  and  international 
levels, is key. 
four 
Israel  recognizes  that  coordination  is  vital  to 
ensuring  the  most  effective  response  to  disasters. 
Yet  the  exploitation  of  humanitarian  aid  by  certain 
non-State actors as a tool for conflict remains a problem. 
As  such,  Israel  emphasizes  the  crucial  importance  of 
coordinating  the  delivery  of  humanitarian  assistance 
through legitimate and recognized channels.
Israel  believes  that  humanitarian  assistance  is  a 
vital aspect of the work of the United Nations in which 
each agency performs according to its mandate. We will 
continue to support its efforts and offer humanitarian 
assistance wherever and whenever it is needed.
Before I conclude, I would like note that it is most 
unfortunate  that  the  present  debate  has  been  used  by 
certain delegations to attack my country with unfounded 
accusations. I do not intend to waste the Assembly’s time 
by  refuting  every  baseless  claim  uttered  in  this  Hall, 
but would like to place my delegation’s disappointment 
on record.
Mr. Dos Santos
(Brazil):  Brazil  welcomes 
the  reports  of  the  Secretary-General  contained  in 
documents A/67/89 and A/67/363, entitled, respectively, 
“Strengthening  of  the  coordination  of  emergency 
humanitarian  assistance  of 
the  United  Nations” 
and  “International  cooperation  on  humanitarian 
assistance in the field of natural disasters, from relief 
to development”. We commend in particular the focus 
on  the  need  to  deepen  partnerships  for  humanitarian 
response  among  the  United  Nations  system,  Member 
States and other relevant actors.
Humanitarian  assistance  as  it  pertains  to  food 
security and disaster risk reduction is closely related to 
sustainable development. In that regard, we welcome the 
outcome  document  of  the  United  Nations  Conference 
on  Sustainable  Development,  entitled  “The  future 
we  want”  (resolution  66/288,  annex).  By  ensuring  a 
mutually supportive relationship between humanitarian 
cooperation  and  sustainable  development,  we  can 
achieve the two-fold objective of increasing resilience 
and  providing  a  smoother  transition  from  relief  to 
recovery to development.
The  global  food  crisis  continues 
to  require 
our  careful  attention,  as  it  has  not  abated.  Recent 
fluctuations in prices of food crops represent an added 
challenge.  Durable  and  sustainable  solutions  are  still 
to  be  adequately  implemented.  In  that  regard,  we 
especially commend the Secretary-General’s initiative 
to  launch  the  Zero  Hunger  Challenge,  which  seeks  to 
guarantee  100  per  cent  access  to  food  for  all,  ensure 
sustainable  food  systems,  double  productivity  and 
reduce food waste. 
2
12-64810
Now  more  than  ever,  it  is  imperative  that  the 
humanitarian  community  seek  out  and  embrace 
new  and  cost-effective  ways  of  mobilizing  much-
needed  resources.  We  believe  that  it  is  of  the  utmost 
importance  that  Member  States  support  humanitarian 
cooperation  initiatives  that  allow  access  to  food 
for  people  undergoing  severe  food  insecurity,  with 
the  involvement  of  the  beneficiary  country  and  in 
partnership  with  international  organizations,  such  as 
the  Food  and  Agriculture  Organization  of  the  United 
Nations and the World Food Programme.
For 
the  Brazilian  Government,  guaranteeing 
the  right  to  adequate  food  is  part  of  a  three-pronged 
strategy  consisting  of  access  to  food  programmes, 
conditional  cash  transfer  policies  and  incentives  for 
family  farming.  Several  initiatives  that  reflect  that 
approach, such as the local procurement of food aid and 
cash-for-work schemes, are already being implemented.
On  the  issue  of  financing,  we  note  with  concern 
the  potential  impacts  of  the  economic  and  financial 
crisis on the provision of United Nations humanitarian 
assistance.  Brazil,  as  a  developing  country,  is  doing 
its  part.  In  the  past  few  years,  we  have  significantly 
increased our contributions, both in cash and in kind. 
As  announced  at  the  pledging  session  of  the  High-
level Conference on the Central Emergency Response 
Fund  held  this  week,  we  have  also  been  steadily 
increasing  our  contributions  to  the  Fund.  Recently, 
we  donated  $1.2  million  to  fund  UNICEF  activities 
in Niger, Mauritania, Mali, Somalia and Haiti, among 
other  countries.  This  year,  Brazil  has  also  made  a 
contribution  of  $7.5  million  to  the  core  programmes 
of  the  United  Nations  Relief  and  Works  Agency  for 
Palestine  Refugees  in  the  Near  East,  covering  areas 
such as health, education and food security. 
By  twinning  operations  with  partners  and  United 
Nations agencies, Brazil has also been able to channel 
more  than  160,000  tons  of  food  aid  to  countries  such 
as the Central African Republic, Chad, Cuba, Ethiopia, 
Haiti,  Madagascar,  Mozambique,  Somalia,  the  Sudan 
and Zimbabwe. We call on donor countries to maintain 
and increase their level of financial support in order to 
enable the continued delivery of relief.
We believe that strengthening partnerships among 
all  Member  States  and  humanitarian  actors  will 
increase ownership and contribute to the effectiveness 
of  United  Nations  humanitarian  assistance.  Brazil 
strongly  believes  that  all  countries  can  contribute  in 
different ways to our collective efforts to save lives and 
A/67/PV.55
reduce the suffering of those affected by humanitarian 
emergencies. In that regard, I would like to recall the 
Dialogue on Humanitarian Partnership — an initiative 
launched by Sweden and Brazil with the participation 
and  support  of  the  Office  for  the  Coordination  of 
Humanitarian  Affairs 
that  brought 
together 19 Member States, representing a wide range 
of  interested  countries,  to  consider  key  humanitarian 
issues.  Our  aim  is  to  strengthen  the  United  Nations 
capacity 
to  address  contemporary  humanitarian 
challenges.
(OCHA)  — 
In the same vein, we very much welcome the dialogue 
and  cooperation  between  OCHA  and  developing 
countries,  which  must  be  involved  in  discussions 
concerning  humanitarian  assistance  and  can  provide 
specific  expertise 
to  emergencies. 
That will certainly contribute to ensuring that United 
Nations humanitarian assistance is underpinned by the 
political support of the wider membership.
in  responding 
Mr.Rachmianto(Indonesia): First of all, we would 
like  to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  his  reports 
on  the  progress  of  humanitarian  activities  around  the 
world and for the recommendations contained therein.
The  continuing  impact  of  multiple  crises  and  the 
rising  occurrence  of  natural  disasters  have  made  the 
world  population,  from  developed  and  developing 
countries alike, vulnerable and put them at constant risk. 
We welcome the significant progress made to date by 
all humanitarian actors and stakeholders in improving 
and 
emergency 
humanitarian  assistance.  Humanitarian  actors  should 
continue  to  improve  their  performance  and  to  ensure 
accountability  to  the  people,  Member  States  and 
donors, including by increasing their effectiveness and 
transparency. 
strengthening 
coordination 
for 
To 
further 
increase 
response  effectiveness, 
humanitarian  decision-making  must  be  based  on 
reliable  data.  We  need  to  further  improve  the  quality 
and  reliability  of  data,  facilitate  appropriate  channels 
for the exchange of information, and develop commonly 
acceptable standards for such exchange. We also need 
to  improve  capacities  to  collect,  analyse  and  report 
disaggregated data in order to ensure the most effective 
use  of  resources  and  to  maximize  benefits  for  the 
affected population.
As  the  access  and  protection  of  humanitarian 
personnel continue to be matters of topical importance, 
we need to sustain and improve dialogue and mobilize 
12-64810
3
A/67/PV.55
the support of all stakeholders in order to ensure safe 
and unhindered access by humanitarian personnel. We 
also  need  to  ensure  that  the  delivery  of  supplies  and 
equipment is conducted in accordance with the relevant 
provisions of international and national law.
As incidents of gender-based violence and violence 
against children in humanitarian emergencies still occur 
at  an  alarming  rate,  we  must  continue  to  mainstream 
the  gender  perspective  into  humanitarian  assistance 
in  order  to  ensure  that  the  specific  needs  of  women, 
girls,  boys  and  men  in  humanitarian  emergencies  are 
comprehensively addressed.
Indonesia would like to join others in calling for the 
strengthening  of  the  capacity  of  humanitarian  actors 
and their response systems with regard to humanitarian 
crises  caused  by  natural  disaster,  including  those 
related  to  the  impact  of  climate  change.  We  reaffirm 
the  utmost  importance  of  implementing  the  Hyogo 
Framework for Action and the need to include disaster 
risk  reduction  and  preparedness  in  the  framework  of 
the  post-2015  development  agenda.  In  that  regard, 
investment in disaster risk reduction and preparedness 
should  be  further  increased  and  funding  resources 
strengthened.  In  view  of  that,  Indonesia  is  a  sponsor 
of and fully supports draft resolution A/67/L.39, on the 
strengthening of the coordination of humanitarian and 
disaster relief assistance of the United Nations.
My  delegation  is  delighted  to  once  again  join  the 
consensus on draft resolution A/67/L.38, on assistance 
to the Palestinian people, which inherently underscores 
the  commitment  of  States  to  providing  assistance 
to  the  Palestinian  people.  The  sustained  support  of 
international  donors,  working  in  collaboration  with 
the  two  parties,  Israel  and  Palestine,  is  essential  in 
order  to  improve  Palestinian  economic  and  social 
infrastructures and meet the humanitarian needs of the 
Palestinian people.
However,  Indonesia  remains  deeply  concerned 
about  the  humanitarian  situation  of  the  Palestinian 
people, in particular in the Gaza Strip, especially after 
the  destruction  caused  by  the  disproportionate  use  of 
force by the occupying Power, which has caused death 
and  despair  to  the  people  in  that  area.  The  situation 
in the West Bank also gives cause for concern, as the 
numerous  checkpoints  and  the  route  of  the  security 
fence are severely hindering efforts to maintain a viable 
economy, especially with regard to agriculture. 
Nevertheless, Indonesia remains convinced of the 
viability of two States living side by side in peace within 
the framework of a comprehensive regional settlement 
under the terms of various resolutions, the Quartet road 
map, the Arab Peace Initiative and the principle of land 
for peace. To achieve that, however, demands that the 
parties  sit  at  the  negotiating  table  to  hammer  out  an 
agreement, which, unfortunately, is where we continue 
to be stopped. The reports are categorically clear that 
forward  movement  is  hampered  by  Israel’s  policy  on 
settlements,  particularly  highlighted  by  Israel’s  plans 
to  build  more  than  3,000  new  settler  homes,  which 
constitutes a sign of bad faith and an obvious obstacle 
to the peace process.
On  29  November,  the  international  community 
voted resoundingly in favour of endorsing the request 
of  Palestine  to  become  a  non-member  observer  State 
(resolution  67/19).  Although  some  24  years  ago  the 
Assembly  had  acknowledged  it  as  a  State  through  its 
resolution 43/177, by according observer State status to 
the State of Palestine we are signaling the primacy of 
diplomacy and our rejection of violence. We are making 
a strong statement on the need for mutual respect among 
nations.
The Secretary-General has reiterated that peace and 
Palestinian statehood are long overdue. Indonesia agrees 
and would like to amplify that affirmation, because we 
fully  believe  that  direct  and  meaningful  negotiations 
are the main avenue towards a comprehensive, fair and 
lasting  solution  that  fulfils  the  aspirations  of  Israelis 
and  Palestinians,  including  an  end  to  occupation  and 
conflict and a just and agreed solution to the plight of 
Palestinian refugees. We again call on Israel to cease 
all  settlement  activities  in  the  occupied  Palestinian 
territory and to avoid contravening its obligations under 
the  road  map  to  freeze  all  settlement  construction, 
including natural growth.
Mr.Kodama(Japan): At the outset, I would like to 
commend  Under-Secretary-General  Valerie  Amos  for 
her prominent leadership in coordinating the delivery 
of emergency humanitarian assistance by humanitarian 
agencies,  as  well  as  for  the  dedication  she  has  shown 
by  visiting  wherever  the  humanitarian  assistance  of 
the United Nations was required. I would also like to 
express  the  appreciation  of  my  Government  for  the 
tireless  efforts  of  all  United  Nations  staff  engaged  in 
emergency humanitarian assistance.
Indeed, in 2012 we have been confronted with many 
humanitarian crises all over the world, including in the 
4
12-64810
Sahel  region,  Syria,  the  Sudan,  South  Sudan,  Haiti, 
Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iran and Myanmar, to name but 
a few. Our challenge is to ensure that the United Nations 
continues to improve its response to humanitarian crises, 
including by strengthening its response capacities and 
humanitarian  coordination  and  the  accountability  of 
all stakeholders, and by recognizing the importance of 
reinforcing  its  emergency  administrative  procedures, 
as rightly addressed in draft resolution A/67/L.39, to be 
adopted today.
Japan fully supports the continuous improvement in 
the United Nations system of humanitarian assistance 
through 
Inter-Agency  Standing  Committee’s 
Transformative  Agenda.  For  our  part,  we  have  made 
contributions to various humanitarian emergencies and 
to individual United Nations humanitarian agencies.
the 
One of the most important common themes of the 
draft resolutions before us today is the strengthening of 
partnerships between the United Nations humanitarian 
system and the growing number of humanitarian actors 
outside the United Nations. Japan highly appreciates the 
continued  efforts  of  Under-Secretary-General  Valerie 
Amos,  Assistant  Secretary-General  Catherine  Bragg 
and  all  the  staff  of  the  Office  for  the  Coordination 
of  Humanitarian  Affairs  towards  that  end,  including 
direct outreach to the capitals of particular countries.
The 
importance  of  various  partnerships  was 
highlighted  at  the  World  Ministerial  Conference  on 
Disaster Reduction in Tohoku, held in Japan on 3 and 
4  July.  Conference  participants  agreed  on  the  critical 
importance  of  operational  coordination  in  response 
to  disasters  through  broad-based  partnerships  among 
various  stakeholders  that  transcend  sectoral  divides. 
Such partnerships include, inter alia, local Governments, 
the  business  community  and  non-governmental 
organizations.
Japan  is  also  making  efforts  to  build  various 
partnerships  in  the  Asia-Pacific  region,  especially  in 
the field of disaster management. For example, in order 
to strengthen the Coordinating Centre for Humanitarian 
Assistance on Disaster Management of the Association 
of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) in Jakarta, Japan 
is providing communication equipment, dispatching a 
disaster-management expert and experts in information 
and  communications 
technology,  and  supporting 
the  creation  of  emergency  reserve  stocks  against 
natural  disasters.  Through  various  additional  efforts, 
Japan  is  supporting  the  establishment  of  the  disaster-
management network for the ASEAN region.
A/67/PV.55
Strengthening resilience is another common theme 
of  this  year’s  draft  resolutions.  In  efforts  to  establish 
more resilient communities, closer cooperation between 
national stakeholders and humanitarian and development 
actors is important. In that regard, we support the strong 
leadership  of  Under-Secretary-General  Amos  on  the 
Inter-Agency  Standing  Committee’s  Transformative 
Agenda, and we look forward to positive developments 
on disaster preparedness through that framework.
To conclude, let me reiterate Japan’s commitment to 
enhancing the resilience of nations and communities in 
facing disasters. At the World Ministerial Conference 
on Disaster Reduction in Tohoku, Prime Minister Noda 
expressed  Japan’s  determination  to  lead  international 
efforts  towards  disaster  risk  reduction,  as  well  as  its 
commitment  to  providing  $3  billion  to  that  end  over 
three years, starting in 2013.
Japan  welcomes 
the  draft  resolution  on 
the 
International Strategy for Disaster Reduction adopted 
this month by the Second Committee (A/C.2/67/L.16), 
in  which  it  was  decided  to  convene  the  Third  World 
Conference  on  Disaster  Risk  Reduction  in  Japan  in 
early  2015.  Let  me  assure  the  General  Assembly  that 
Japan will spare no effort towards the success of that 
conference.
Mr.ManjeevSinghPuri(India): I have the honour 
to deliver a few remarks on behalf of the Governments of 
India and Sweden as a contribution to the debate under 
agenda item 70 (a), “Strengthening of the coordination 
of  humanitarian  and  disaster  relief  assistance  of  the 
United Nations”. Our joint statement should be viewed 
as a reflection of our common recognition of the need to 
strengthen the coordination of emergency humanitarian 
assistance by the United Nations. 
At the outset, India and Sweden would like to thank 
the Secretary-General for the documentation presented 
under this item and for highlighting the need to build 
stronger humanitarian partnerships. Enhanced dialogue 
and stronger partnership at the global, regional, national 
and  local  levels  are  not  ends  in  themselves;  rather, 
they  bring  together  relevant  stakeholders,  leading  to 
improved communication and collaboration that in turn 
contribute to a more effective humanitarian response. 
Indeed,  our  joint  statement  symbolizes  a  common 
belief  in  strengthened  humanitarian  partnerships  and 
dialogue.
India  and  Sweden  reaffirm  that  humanitarian 
principles and international humanitarian law provide 
12-64810
5
A/67/PV.55
the  basis  for  humanitarian  assistance.  In  that  regard, 
I  would  like  to  underline  that  India  and  Sweden  are 
committed to preserving the respect for and adherence 
to  the  principles  of  humanity,  neutrality,  impartiality 
and independence reflected in the annex to resolution 
46/182.  We  must  at  all  times  respect  the  primary 
role  of  the  affected  State  in  providing  protection  and 
humanitarian  assistance,  with  due  respect  for  the 
sovereignty,  territorial  integrity  and  national  unity  of 
States. 
Affected  populations  are  at  the  centre  of  all 
humanitarian  action.  We  encourage  the  international 
community  and  the  United  Nations  to  continue  to 
enhance their accountability to and work closely with 
affected people in order to create an inclusive process 
and to bring out a sense of ownership. Lessons learned 
from  recent  disasters  confirm  the  need  for  closer 
consultations  and  collaboration  with  beneficiaries. 
We welcome the efforts under way to develop internal 
accountability mechanisms within the United Nations 
system.
In  addition  to  the  acute  humanitarian  crises, 
of  which  there  are  unfortunately  too  many  around 
the  globe,  India  and  Sweden  commend  the  United 
Nations  for  its  efforts  to  build  resilience  and  disaster 
risk  and  reduction  preparedness,  as  we  believe  that 
prevention is better than cure. The Sahel is an example 
of  the  coordinated  engagement  of  the  Office  for  the 
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs and the United 
Nations Development Programme in order to be more 
strategic and to minimize the gap between humanitarian 
relief and long-term development. India and Sweden are 
also concerned about the many humanitarian crises that 
receive little international attention yet pose significant 
threats to affected populations. 
to  carry  out 
In  order  for  the  United  Nations  system  and 
the 
their 
international  community 
responsibilities  in conflict areas, safe and unhindered 
access  of  humanitarian  personnel 
is  of  critical 
importance. We are concerned that there continue to be 
security incidents involving the deliberate targeting of 
humanitarian and United Nations personnel, hindering 
them  in  their  indispensable  efforts  to  assist  those  in 
need.
the  ground 
saves 
Delivery  on 
lives,  and 
coordination makes delivery more effective, especially 
at a time when new humanitarian actors are emerging. 
India  and  Sweden  deeply  value  the  coordinating 
capacities  of  the  United  Nations  system  through  the 
Emergency  Relief  Coordinator  and  the  Office  for  the 
Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs, and encourage 
all  actors  to  continue  enhancing  their  support  of  the 
Office. As strong supporters of the Central Emergency 
Relief  Fund  (CERF),  India  and  Sweden  welcome  its 
continued  achievements  in  providing  a  timely  and 
predictable response to humanitarian emergencies. We 
are  encouraged  by  the  confidence  reposed  in  CERF 
demonstrated  by  a  commitment  of  $384  million  in 
pledges made by Member States at the high-level CERF 
meeting on Tuesday, 11 December.
Before  closing,  India  and  Sweden  would  like 
to  thank  the  Secretary-General  for  bringing  to  our 
attention  the  issue  of  data  collection  in  the  report. 
Indeed, there is the need to improve the decision-making 
process  with  a  view  towards  taking  better  informed 
decisions  in  times  of  humanitarian  emergencies.  The 
gathering of data is crucial to enhance this element in 
order to improve our collective efforts to help those in 
need. The number of people around the globe in need 
of  humanitarian  assistance  is  not  shrinking.  On  the 
contrary, it is unfortunately on the rise. We recognize 
the challenges ahead, and we are confident that we will 
be  able  to  tackle  these  challenges  through  enhanced 
cooperation and by fostering a broad consensus among 
Member States.
Mr. Errázuriz (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  The 
delegation  of  Chile  welcomes  the  introduction  of 
draft  resolution  A/67/L.39  on  the  strengthening  of 
the  coordination  of  humanitarian  and  disaster  relief 
assistance  of  the  United  Nations,  prepared  by  the 
representatives  of  Sweden  and  India.  My  delegation 
welcomes  the  Secretary-General’s  report  on  the  issue 
(A/67/89) and agrees with the recommendations made 
therein. In particular, we recognize the need for inclusive 
humanitarian assistance with strengthened relations at 
the  local,  regional,  national  and  international  levels. 
Our country also considers it essential to promote and 
enhance  resilience  and  to  build  support  systems  for 
data-based  humanitarian  decision-making  in  order  to 
consolidate  partnerships  for  effective  humanitarian 
response.
In  various  forums  of  the  multilateral  system, 
Chile has emphasized the importance of a coordinated 
humanitarian response by the international community, 
as represented by the United Nations system, with the 
support of the affected communities and States. In that 
regard, the leadership of Under-Secretary-General and 
Emergency  Relief  Coordinator  Valerie  Amos  and  the 
6
12-64810
Office  for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs 
(OCHA) team has been critical, and we thank them for 
their efforts.
We  reiterate  our  commitment  to  the  various 
regional and subregional bodies that play an important 
role  in  humanitarian  emergencies.  They  must  act 
in  a  coordinated  and  cooperative  manner  and  avoid 
duplication  of  efforts  as  they  promote  comprehensive 
recovery. 
The draft resolution before us includes new elements 
that  are  worth  highlighting.  Chile  welcomes  the  fact 
that the policy agreed upon in the recent humanitarian 
segment  of 
the  Economic  and  Social  Council 
recognizes  the  endeavours  of  OCHA  to  strengthen 
the  creation  of  alliances  among  the  various  sectors, 
especially regional organizations and the private sector, 
in  addressing  emergencies.  Chile’s  recent  experience 
following the earthquake and tsunami of 2010 made it 
clear  to  our  authorities  that  such  alliances  need  to  be 
further explored, especially with respect to prevention, 
mitigation  and  reconstruction.  We  also  believe  it 
important to involve civil society in such processes.
My  delegation  wishes  to  underscore  the  fact 
that  the  draft  resolution  includes  a  condemnation  by 
Member States of the threat of violent attack on medical 
personnel  and  facilities.  The  safety  of  humanitarian 
staff  is  fundamental  in  any  situation.  We  consider 
it  important  to  move  forward  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  international  humanitarian  law.  It  also 
deem  it  vital  that  the  draft  text  refers  to  the  need  for 
States to consider the needs of persons with disabilities 
in  the  design  and  implementation  of  disaster  risk 
reduction,  humanitarian  and  recovery  programming, 
and post-humanitarian emergency reconstruction — all 
of which also represents an opportunity to move towards 
the creation of an inclusive society. 
The  negative  impact  of  the  current  economic 
and  financial  crisis  has  had  repercussions  on  the 
funding of the international response to humanitarian 
emergencies.  In  that  regard,  it  is  important  to  appeal 
to  the  main  contributors  to  the  Central  Emergency 
Response  Fund  (CERF),  whose  contributions  should 
be additional to current commitments to humanitarian 
programming  and  should  not  be  to  the  detriment  of 
resources made available for international cooperation 
for development. In that regard, and given the need to 
enhance the effective use of resources, we also welcome 
the draft resolution’s emphasis on the importance of the 
A/67/PV.55
accountability of humanitarian actors at all the stages 
of humanitarian assistance.
We reiterate that the United Nations system and its 
many entities are the main provider and coordinator of 
emergency relief and contribute to recovery throughout 
the world by supporting the activities of Governments 
and  aid  organizations.  My  delegation  believes  that 
humanitarian  assistance  should  prioritize  human 
security, human rights and the promotion of and respect 
for the principles of humanity, neutrality, impartiality 
and independence. It should also ensure the swift and 
unhindered  access  of  humanitarian  personnel  and  aid 
to affected communities.
I conclude by reiterating my delegation’s belief that 
it is urgent to further enhance coordination among the 
various  humanitarian  actors  and  in  the  long  term  to 
create conditions conducive to transition from disaster 
relief  to  development.  We  believe  that  development 
will not only make it possible to eradicate poverty and 
hunger,  but  will  also  enhance  the  ability  of  States  to 
ensure a stable environment and lasting peace.
delivery 
and 
Ms. Murillo (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  As 
noted  in  the  Secretary-General’s  report  (A/67/89), 
we  have  made  progress  in  improving  the  efficiency, 
transparency, 
of 
humanitarian assistance. But there remains much room 
for  improvement.  According  to  estimates,  this  year 
at  least  51  million  people  will  require  some  type  of 
humanitarian  assistance  and  we,  as  the  international 
community, must protect our populations and improve 
our response to their needs. 
accountability 
Access continues to pose a significant problem for 
humanitarian operations on the ground. Moreover, the 
changing nature of new crises caused by human rights 
violations,  political  instability  and  armed  conflicts 
confronts  us  with  new  challenges  to  humanitarian 
response  and  to  the  safety  of  emergency  personnel. 
Meeting  those  challenges  in  a  constructive  way  will 
require sustained dialogue and the commitment of all 
parties to distinguish humanitarian matters from actions 
motivated by political or security considerations.
As Costa Rica has pointed out on other occasions, 
while we must prevent abuses of the concept of timely 
and  unhindered  access,  we  must  also  recognize  its 
importance to the effectiveness of humanitarian relief 
on  the  ground.  In  our  view,  political  considerations 
must  not  be  allowed  to  take  precedence  over  the 
lives  and  well-being  of  people  urgently  in  need  of 
12-64810
7
A/67/PV.55
humanitarian assistance in the field. Even here in the 
General Assembly, we can do a great deal by engaging 
in dialogue and seeking language we can agree on in 
order to take on the issue as it deserves. 
those  recruited 
locally,  fell  victim 
Regrettably,  humanitarian  assistance  workers, 
especially 
to 
violence at a much higher rate in the first half of 2012 
than  in  2011,  according  to  the  Secretary-General’s 
report (A/67/492). It is particularly worrying that most 
victims  have  been  the  targets  of  extremist  acts.  Such 
attacks,  intentionally  directed  against  workers  who 
dedicate their lives to helping others, are unacceptable. 
We must condemn them in the strongest possible terms, 
even  as  we  continue  working  to  improve  security  for 
United Nations compounds. As the Secretary-General 
points out in that regard, the support and acceptance of 
host Governments, local authorities and the population 
remain the first line of defence.
Another  significant  challenge  we  face,  given 
climate change and the increased frequency of natural 
disasters, is the need for a more integrated response and 
for tighter cooperation among all agencies, especially 
humanitarian  and  development  entities.  Recent 
experience  in  the  Horn  of  Africa  and  in  the  path  of 
Hurricane Sandy through the Caribbean, as well as other 
disasters in our region, show the importance of support 
when  emergencies  strike;  however,  it  must  strike  a 
balance  between  short-term  needs  and  the  promotion 
of  community  resilience  and  long-term  development 
processes. The correct approach involves programmes 
for  prevention,  preparedness,  rescue,  recovery  and 
development, and, as the Secretary-General points out 
in his report in A/67/363, it should focus on building the 
resilience of the most vulnerable groups, in particular 
children, women and disabled people. That is the only 
way  to  prevent  crises  from  recurring  or  becoming 
endemic.
We clearly recognize the primary responsibility of 
national  Governments  in  building  resilience.  Still,  as 
the  most  environmentally  vulnerable  region  of  Latin 
America  and  the  Caribbean,  Central  America  calls 
for  an  increase  in  investment  at  all  levels  in  disaster 
risk  reduction,  in  the  conservation  and  protection  of 
ecological balance, and in safeguarding the sustainable 
development of our peoples.
The  Secretary-General’s  report  on  strengthening 
the coordination of emergency humanitarian assistance 
(A/67/89)  calls  attention  to  two  additional  challenges. 
One  is  the  need  for  decisions  to  be  based  on  up-to-
date  and  trustworthy  data  that  is  readily  available 
to  emergency  responders;  the  other  is  the  need  to 
strengthen  cooperation  among  various  responders,  in 
particular  new  stakeholders.  The  Secretary-General’s 
suggestions in this and other matters should form the 
basis for shaping our humanitarian responses.
Mr. McLay (New  Zealand):  Let  me  begin  by 
offering  New  Zealand’s  sympathy  to  the  families 
and  colleagues  of  the  United  Nations  humanitarian 
personnel who have lost their lives or been injured in 
the  course  of  their  duties  this  year.  We  applaud  the 
dedication  of  all  United  Nations  staff  who  work  in 
dangerous  and  difficult  circumstances  in  support  of 
those who are in need of humanitarian assistance.
Over the past year, progress overall has been made 
in  addressing  the  challenges  facing  the  humanitarian 
community.  However,  the  need  for  us  all  to  work 
together  to  help  those  caught  up  in  humanitarian 
situations  remains  as  urgent  as  ever.  Indeed,  right 
now,  more  than  60  million  people  are  in  need  of 
humanitarian  assistance  globally.  The  economic  cost 
of  disasters  continues  to  increase,  even  though  the 
actual number of disasters fell in 2012. The impact of 
climate change and the increased frequency of natural 
disasters highlight the need for closer coordination and 
collaboration among those working in the humanitarian, 
development, political and security spheres. 
New  Zealand  recognizes  that,  as  a  cost-cutting 
strategy, disaster risk reduction provides the best value 
for  money  in  reducing  the  impact  of  humanitarian 
crises,  with  $1  invested  in  prevention  estimated  to 
save up to $7 in future humanitarian response. That is 
a good investment. We also recognize the importance 
of  implementing  the  Hyogo  Framework  for  Action 
2005-2015,  and  in  particular  of  strengthening  the 
effectiveness  of  national  and  local  preparedness  and 
building  the  resilience  of  nations  and  communities  in 
line with the Framework. 
Like  others,  New  Zealand  is  committed  to  the 
core  humanitarian  principles  of  humanity,  neutrality, 
impartiality  and  independence.  We  believe  that  as 
partnerships  are  formed  with  new  actors  we  must  be 
vigilant  in  adhering  to  those  principles.  They  are 
essential  to  ensuring  timely,  secure  and  unimpeded 
access to the people who need humanitarian assistance 
the most. In that respect, New Zealand strongly holds 
to the view that inclusiveness should apply not only to 
humanitarian  assistance  and  development  actors  but 
also  to  those  affected  by  emergencies.  The  General 
8
12-64810
Assembly recently adopted resolutions acknowledging 
that we must give appropriate consideration to gender, 
age  and  disability  as  part  of  joint  needs  assessments 
and effective humanitarian response. 
We  also  believe  that,  in  addition  to  the  United 
Nations  system,  we  as  Member  States  must  address 
gender-based  violence  in  humanitarian  emergencies, 
and  we  must  ensure  that  measures  are  in  place  to 
investigate  such  incidents  and  that,  where  required, 
appropriate prosecutions are undertaken.
New  Zealand  joins  others  in  expressing  support 
for the efforts of the Inter-Agency Standing Committee 
through  the  Transformative  Agenda  to  strengthen 
coordination, 
leadership  and  accountability.  We 
commend Under-Secretary-General Valerie Amos and 
her staff for their impressive efforts to promote a more 
efficient,  faster  and  better  coordinated  humanitarian 
response, and we particularly commend her leadership 
of  and 
the  Central  Emergency 
Response Fund. She has taken up a great task, and we 
support her in that. 
improvements 
to 
Ms. Williams (Grenada):  We  congratulate  the 
Member States already using best practices to monitor 
disaster  risk  management  and  implement  disaster-
response  plans  that  preserve,  first  and  foremost, 
the  lives  of  populations,  the  livelihoods  of  those 
countries and particular sectors such as food and food 
security, agriculture and infrastructure. They are to be 
commended  for  identifying  the  need  to  strategically 
respond in the areas of food, water, sanitation, shelter, 
recovery, health and education. 
Member States have recognized the importance of 
coordination  at  all  levels  —  local,  national,  regional 
and global. Only through collaboration can we achieve 
effective  disaster  risk  management,  which  is  of  the 
utmost importance if the quality of life of those persons 
affected by disasters is to be protected and improved. 
In that context, climate change as a driver of disaster is 
pertinent. More and more effective responses to climate 
change  events  are  needed  in  adaptation,  mitigation, 
financing  and  other  means  of  implementation.  That 
is particularly true for small island developing States. 
Such responses can reduce climate disasters in the first 
instance, allowing societies to keep more resources at 
home to respond to other disasters and, more broadly, 
to pursue sustainable development.
There  is  not  a  single  Government  that  is  capable 
of  managing  a  twenty-first  century  disaster  on  its 
A/67/PV.55
own.  Therefore,  international  programmes,  such  as 
the  Global  Platform  for  Disaster  Risk  Reduction,  are 
turning  the  momentum  garnered  into  a  durable  and 
sustainable effort to share responsibilities in reducing 
risks  and  reinforcing  resilience  in  our  communities. 
That  must  continue 
involved 
sectors  and  all  stakeholders,  including  Governments, 
non-governmental  organizations  and  civil  society, 
international  agencies  and  organizations,  academic 
and technical institutions, and the private sector. Such 
broad stakeholder collaboration must continue, and all 
Member States must partake fully in the development 
and continuation of the process. 
to  come  from  all 
Transparency in reporting is also paramount, for we 
need  sharper  indicators  for  progress  that  will  provide 
the  ability  to  measure  achievements  we  make  and 
enlighten us on what we have already accomplished. In 
my own region, we have initiated the Caribbean Hazard 
Mitigation  Capacity  Building  Programme  (CHAMP). 
It  is  a  three-year  project  funded  by  the  Canadian 
International  Development  Agency,  implemented  by 
the  Caribbean  Disaster  Emergency  Response  Agency 
and executed by the Organization of American States. 
It  is  intended  to  mitigate  and  manage  disasters. 
CHAMP seeks to enhance regional capacity to reduce 
vulnerability to the effects of natural hazards. That will 
be  done  through  the  development  of  national  hazard-
mitigation  policies  and  implementation  programmes, 
the promotion of the wider use of hazard information 
in development decisions and the strengthening of safe 
building practices, training and certification. CHAMP 
activities will be carried out in the four pilot States of 
Belize, the British Virgin Islands, Saint Lucia and my 
own  country,  Grenada.  We  look  forward  to  building 
resilience,  including  national  capacity-building,  and 
Grenada again expresses its thanks to Canada for the 
programme. We invite other partners to the project.
Grenada  wishes  to  thank  all  our  partners  who 
supported  us  through  our  last  major  disaster  in 
2004-2005, when we lost 204 per cent of our national 
gross  domestic  product.  We  assure  the  Assembly  that 
amid  a  global  economic  and  financial  crisis,  climate 
change  destruction  and  other  challenges,  our  people’s 
resilience continues to grow. 
We  urge  continuing  support  for  the  pursuit  of 
policies and practices of gender equality and women’s 
leadership in all humanitarian work. Grenada expresses 
its  full  solidarity  with  the  people  of  Palestine  still  in 
need  of  humanitarian  relief,  and  we  congratulate  the 
12-64810
9
A/67/PV.55
United Nations Relief and Works Agency for Palestine 
Refugees in the Near East on its work. 
The  outstanding  leadership  of  Under-Secretary-
General  Valerie  Amos  is  making  an  effective  Office 
for  the  Coordination  of  Humanitarian  Affairs  even 
more so. We congratulate her on her leadership and her 
achievements. We look forward to increased capacity-
building  and  partnership  for  managing  national, 
regional  and  global  disasters.  We  thank  all  United 
Nations workers who are engaged in the Organization’s 
great humanitarian work.
TheActingPresident: In accordance with General 
Assembly resolution 45/6 of 16 October 1990, I now call 
on the observer of the International Committee of the 
Red Cross. 
Mr. Füllemann
(International  Committee  of 
the  Red  Cross):  The  International  Committee  of  the 
Red  Cross  (ICRC)  is  pleased  to  address  the  General 
Assembly  on  the  important  subject  of  humanitarian 
coordination.
law  and 
The  global  context  in  which  humanitarian  action 
takes  place  has  evolved  significantly  over  the  years 
and will continue to do so as it faces new challenges in 
the years ahead. The scope of the label “humanitarian” 
has expanded, and today the word refers to everything 
from  emergency  relief  to  disaster  preparedness,  early 
recovery,  capacity-building,  judicial  action,  restoring 
the  rule  of 
institutional  reconstruction. 
Increasingly,  humanitarian  action  is  moving  beyond 
immediate response and placing more emphasis on the 
causes  and  consequences  of  crises,  as  demonstrated 
by  current  initiatives  to  enhance  the  resilience  of 
vulnerable populations. The way in which we work is 
also changing, thanks in part to new technologies that 
enable a greater scope of action and shape the way in 
which  humanitarian  actors  engage  with  vulnerable 
populations.  The  ICRC  has  always  striven  to  adapt 
continuously  to  the  changing  realities  confronting 
it,  while  scrupulously  adhering  to  its  fundamental 
principles. It will continue to do so in the future.
Partnership is a key aspect of the ICRC’s activity. 
The  organization  works  with  a  wide  variety  of 
partners, as demonstrated by the support it provides to 
Government and public programmes, public facilities, 
including hospitals and places of detention, and public 
services. Many of its activities involve joint action with 
various components of the International Red Cross and 
Red  Crescent  Movement,  reflecting  the  ICRC’s  belief 
that  strong  partnerships  at  the  local  level  are  vital  to 
acquiring a thorough understanding of the situation on 
the ground and the needs of various communities.
In  all,  the  ICRC  has  active  partnerships  with  107 
national Red Cross and Red Crescent societies. Those 
partnerships  take  different  forms;  some  are  primarily 
operational  and  concentrate  on  emergency  response, 
while others focus on capacity-building in specific areas 
such as conflict preparedness. Examples of the first type 
of  partnership  can  be  found  in  the  close  cooperation 
forged during major operations this past year with the 
national societies of Syria, Mali, Afghanistan, Somalia, 
the Sudan, South Sudan and the Democratic Republic 
of the Congo, to cite just a few.
An  important  related  topic  is  coordination  with 
various actors involved in contexts where humanitarian 
action takes place. The growing number and diversity 
of  those  actors  are  making  it  ever  harder  to  ensure  a 
consistent,  coordinated  and  effective  humanitarian 
response,  and  thus  to  meet  the  needs  of  the  people 
affected.  It  is  of  paramount  importance  that  such 
diversity  does  not  lead  to  any  confusion  that  would 
ultimately harm the people we have a duty to help.
The  ICRC  is  committed  to  reaching  out  and 
engaging  with  everyone  involved  in  the  provision  of 
humanitarian  aid  on  the  ground.  It  strives  to  do  this 
in  a  spirit  of  aid  effectiveness  and  pragmatism  in 
terms of coordination. A successful approach must be 
action-oriented and reflect reality in the field. This was 
reaffirmed  during  the  meeting  of  all  the  Movement’s 
components prior to the International Conference of the 
Red Cross and Red Crescent in 2011.
The  ICRC’s  determination  to  work  closely  with 
and learn from our partners and with newly emerging 
actors cannot, however, be allowed to conflict with our 
adherence to core principles. These principles constitute 
the  framework  within  which  any  interaction  between 
our  organization  and  others  must  occur.  The  ICRC’s 
humanitarian  work  is  exclusively  civilian  in  nature 
and guided solely by humanitarian considerations. It is 
founded  primarily  on  the  principles  of  humanity  and 
impartiality  and  is  carried  out  according  to  the  most 
urgent needs and without discrimination. The principles 
of  neutrality  and  independence  are  also  key  elements 
of the ICRC approach, helping the organization to gain 
access to people in need and to carry out assistance and 
protection activities. 
10 
12-64810
The  ICRC  strives  for  constant  dialogue  with  the 
authorities  and  with  all  the  parties  concerned.  It  is 
completely  transparent  about  this.  However,  while 
taking into consideration the positions and concerns of 
all  parties,  we  nevertheless  formulate  and  implement 
our  policies  independently.  Neutrality  means  that  the 
ICRC focuses on its exclusively humanitarian mission 
and is careful to abstain from any action or statement 
that  could  be  interpreted  as  siding  with  one  party  or 
the other, or perceived as a political stance. The ICRC 
operational  experience  has  demonstrated  repeatedly 
that in order to ensure access and acceptance, the goals 
of humanitarian action in response to armed conflicts 
and other situations of violence should remain distinct 
from goals of a military or political nature.
Of fundamental concern to the ICRC today are the 
threats  affecting  the  delivery  of  health  care  and  the 
safety of those who deliver it. Violence against health-
care workers, facilities and beneficiaries is one of the 
most  serious  yet  neglected  humanitarian  concerns 
today. Such violence is impeding access to health care 
in  many  countries.  The  shelling  of  hospitals,  attacks 
on  ambulances  and  the  fact  that  wounded  people 
can  remain  in  agony  for  hours  in  vehicles  held  up  at 
checkpoints  all  demonstrate  a  blatant  disrespect  for 
the  neutral  status  of  health-care  facilities,  transport 
and personnel. This disrespect is being shown in many 
countries throughout the world.
In  response  to  this  reality,  in  2011  the  ICRC 
launched a four-year initiative entitled “Health Care in 
Danger”. The idea is to work together with States and 
other  stakeholders  to  take  practical  steps  to  improve 
security  for  and  guarantee  access  to  health  care  in 
armed conflicts and other emergencies.
This issue was raised at the thirty-first International 
Conference,  held  in  Geneva  in  2011.  The  Conference 
brought  together  the  various  components  of  the  Red 
Cross and Red Crescent Movement, as well as States. 
It  adopted  a  far-reaching  resolution  on  health  care  in 
danger,  which  demanded  an  effective  response  from 
States, national societies and the health-care community 
at large. The ICRC welcomes the substantial discussions 
among  States  on  the  protection  of  medical  personnel 
and medical units in the framework of the negotiation 
of  draft  resolution  A/67/L.39,  entitled  “Strengthening 
of 
the  coordination  of  emergency  humanitarian 
assistance of the United Nations”. The Health Care in 
Danger  initiative  being  a  dynamic  process,  the  ICRC 
trusts  that,  during  upcoming  sessions  of  the  General 
A/67/PV.55
Assembly  and  the  Economic  and  Social  Council,  this 
critical topic will enjoy the States’ continuous interest 
and support.
Another challenge for the ICRC lies in the growing 
gap  between  the  need  for  protection  and  assistance 
in  today’s  most  acute  crises  and  what  seems  to  be 
diminishing  access  by  humanitarian  organizations  to 
vulnerable groups of people. The ICRC is involved in 
various initiatives to narrow this gap. For example, last 
year States joined the Red Cross and Red Crescent at 
the  International  Conference  in  adopting  a  four-year 
action  plan  for  the  implementation  of  international 
humanitarian  law.  The  action  plan  read,  in  part,  as 
follows: 
“Components  of  the  Movement  must  be  able 
to  deliver  humanitarian  assistance  at  all  times  in 
conformity  with  the  fundamental  principles  of 
humanity, impartiality, neutrality and independence. 
States will respect the adherence by all components 
of the Movement to these fundamental principles ... 
The ICRC and the host national society concerned 
will establish and maintain a constructive dialogue 
with  all  parties  to  armed  conflicts  in  order  to 
obtain access to victims and the necessary security 
guarantees for its staff. States respect the need for 
such dialogue and reaffirm the unique position and 
contribution of the ICRC and national societies in 
this regard.”
Looking  ahead,  the  ICRC  shares  the  goal  of 
bolstering the effectiveness and efficiency of the work 
carried out by all international, regional, national and 
local entities engaged in humanitarian action. Anyone 
involved  in  such  action  should  naturally  aspire  to 
accommodate  and  facilitate  wider  efforts  aimed  at 
reducing  vulnerability  and  promoting  sustainable 
recovery  and  development.  However,  wider  action  is 
not always feasible. Any action must always be realistic 
when weighed against the circumstances, the needs and 
the capacity for effective action.
The ICRC seeks to meet the needs and lessen the 
vulnerability of people affected by crisis, regardless of 
the scale. It keeps those people firmly at the forefront 
of its work, striving to strengthen their resilience and 
to  facilitate  their  involvement  in  identifying  both  the 
needs  and  the  action  required  to  meet  those  needs. 
We  welcome  initiatives  to  bolster  the  accountability 
of  humanitarian  agencies  towards  their  beneficiaries. 
They  complement  the  accountability  of  humanitarian 
12-64810
11
A/67/PV.55
organizations vis-à-vis the authorities of the States on 
whose territories they work.
in  which 
it  works, 
laws  and 
Lastly,  in  the  complex  and  highly  unpredictable 
environment 
the  ICRC  will 
continue  to  hone  its  ability  to  carry  out  assistance- 
and  protection-based  activities 
that  are  strictly 
humanitarian  in  nature.  Those  efforts  will  focus  on 
the  speed  and  quality  of  its  operational  response, 
promoting 
regulations,  and 
monitoring  their  implementation.  The  ICRC  will  also 
continue its contribution to improving coordination to 
the extent allowed by the imperatives of its fundamental 
principles, adherence to which sustains its access and 
operational capacity.
is  only  by 
the  principles  of 
humanitarian action and engaging in dialogue with all 
concerned  that  the  best  response  to  urgent  needs  can 
be  found  and  that  a  lasting  improvement  in  people’s 
welfare can be achieved.
suitable 
It 
respecting 
The Acting President: 
In  accordance  with 
resolution 49/2, of 19 October 1994, I now call on the 
observer of the International Federation of Red Cross 
and Red Crescent Societies.
Mr. Jilani (International  Federation  of  Red 
Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies):  The  International 
Federation  of  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  Societies 
(IFRC) is grateful for the opportunity to participate in 
this debate.
Last  week,  Typhoon  Bopha  struck  the  southern 
Philippines  and  left  behind  devastated  communities 
and  widespread  destruction.  More  than  700  people 
have been confirmed dead and more than 900 reported 
missing.  As  the  scale  of  the  devastation  continues  to 
emerge,  it  is  estimated  that  the  typhoon  has  affected 
the lives of over 5 million people, wrecked over 70,000 
houses  and  left  more  than  400,000  people  seeking 
shelter in temporary evacuation centres. In some areas, 
entire  villages  have  been  devastated,  with  the  entire 
livelihoods of their communities lost.
On 5 December, the IFRC launched an emergency 
appeal to support the Philippine Red Cross in its efforts 
to roll out a massive relief operation. The Chairman of 
the Philippine Red Cross, Richard Gordon, said: 
“We will need the support of our partners, locally 
and abroad, to help alleviate the suffering of these 
families and to help them recover their lives with 
dignity”.
It is expected that the results of the ongoing assessments 
will lead to an increased need for international support 
to  enable  the  Government  of  the  Philippines  and  the 
Philippine Red Cross, among other actors, to respond 
to the immense needs.
Last month, we witnessed first-hand the devastating 
impact  of  superstorm  Sandy.  Millions  of  people  were 
directly affected by Hurricane Sandy as it tore through 
the Caribbean and the United States. Many communities 
are  still  facing  the  challenge  of  a  long  recovery.  In 
Cuba, the storm is estimated to have directly affected 
1  million  people  and  indirectly  affected  3  million 
people.  In  Haiti,  the  rain  continued  after  Sandy,  thus 
compounding  the  impact  and  increasing  the  threat 
of  cholera.  It  is  estimated  that  in  Jamaica,  more  than 
200,000 families have been affected by the storm. Food 
insecurity  is  also  a  major  concern,  as  many  of  those 
countries have experienced a catastrophic loss of food 
crops and livelihoods, and also face the potential risk of 
the spread of waterborne diseases.
Furthermore,  the  monetary  impact  is  huge.  One 
estimate  put  the  material  cost  of  Sandy  at  around 
$170  billion  in  the  United  States  alone,  making 
Sandy  one  of  the  most  economically  devastating 
climate-related disasters.
It  is  evident  that  the  impacts  of  climate  change 
and  vulnerability  to  natural  disasters  are  challenges 
that affect all States, rich and poor, small islands and 
large countries, and thus require serious and concerted 
efforts  to  tackle  the  related  environmental  challenges 
and their humanitarian impact, especially on the most 
vulnerable. 
In  paragraph  2  of  his  report  (A/67/363),  the 
Secretary-General reminds us that: 
“Humanitarian  needs  around  the  world  are 
rising  in  part  owing  to  the  increased  frequency 
and  severity  of  natural  disasters  and  the  growing 
number of vulnerable people”.
Last week, on closing day of the eighteenth session 
of the Conference of the Parties to the United Nations 
Framework  Convention  on  Climate  Change,  held  in 
Doha, the IFRC Vice-President reminded Governments 
of their collective responsibility to better protect those 
at  risk  from  the  potentially  devastating  impact  of 
climate change. He said:
“We  witness  every  day  the  worsening  impact  of 
climate  change  on  the  lives  and  livelihoods  of 
12 
12-64810
millions  of  vulnerable  people.  The  humanitarian 
impact of a changing climate is not a future threat. 
It is a daily reality”.
Now  that  the  Doha  meeting  has  ended,  we  must  still 
translate that collective responsibility into the concrete 
measures, commitments and resources needed now to 
help national Governments help their people adapt.
Humanitarian agencies are already seeing increased 
food  insecurity,  public-health  threats,  migration  and 
displacement,  and  other  related  consequences.  While 
humanitarian  organizations  will  continue  to  respond 
to extreme-weather and climate-related events, we can 
also  help  to  reduce  the  impacts  through  disaster  risk 
reduction and disaster preparedness systems.
We  recognize  that  the  primary  responsibility 
to  protect  citizens  in  disaster  situations  lies  with  the 
national authorities. We believe that national authorities 
should  invest  adequately  in  building  resilience  and 
promote  programmes  that  strengthen  resilience  at  all 
levels. We believe also that Governments have a duty 
to  request  international  assistance  when  the  scale  of 
the disaster and the needs of the affected people exceed 
the capacities of their national authorities. At the same 
time, we reiterate the call of the Secretary-General for 
Member States 
“to  provide 
timely,  flexible,  predictable  and 
multi-year funding for programming that supports 
community  resilience, 
including  preparedness, 
early action and early recovery” (A/67/363, para. 52).

On  our  part,  we  are  committed  to  continuing 
to  support  our  Red  Cross  and  Red  Crescent  national 
societies  to  build  the  capacities  of  their  tens  of 
millions  of  members,  volunteers  and  members  of  the 
communities they serve.
Collectively,  we  need  to  work  together  to  ensure 
that  disaster  risk  reduction  and  preparedness  is  given 
due  attention  and  resources,  including  throughout  the 
discussion  in  the  year  ahead  related  to  the  post-2015 
development framework.
The Acting President: 
In  accordance  with 
resolution  47/4,  of  16  October  1992,  I  now  call  on 
the  observer  for  the  International  Organization  for 
Migration.
Ms. Borgman (International  Organization  for 
Migration):  I  shall  deliver  this  statement  on  behalf  of 
Ms.  Michele  Klein  Solomon,  Permanent  Observer  of 
the International Organization for Migration (IOM).
A/67/PV.55
The  International  Organization  for  Migration  is 
very pleased to take the floor today with reference to 
the reports of the Secretary-General on the coordination 
of  humanitarian  and  disaster  relief  assistance  by  the 
United Nations.
Recent and protracted crises have forced millions 
of people to flee their homes, either within or outside 
the  borders  of  their  countries,  which  calls  for  the 
international community to respond collectively. IOM, 
as  the  global  lead  agency  on  migration,  continues  to 
provide  essential  life-saving  assistance  to  refugees, 
internally displaced persons (IDPs) and other migrants 
affected by crises around the world.
Based  on 
the 
Secretary-General, I would like to take up three points 
for reflection.
the  comprehensive  reports  of 
First,  when  providing  humanitarian  assistance 
during  crises,  our  response  must  take  into  account 
the  specific  needs  of  migrants,  whether  they  are 
refugees, IDPs or migrant workers, who are sometimes 
referred  to  in  this  context  as  third-country  nationals. 
Recent emergencies have demonstrated the vulnerable 
situation of people crossing borders and of those who 
are stranded or unable to leave. Among these are some 
particularly  vulnerable  persons,  including  women, 
children, the disabled and indigenous peoples, who also 
merit special attention.
Such  humanitarian  emergencies  can  often  be 
regarded  as  migration  crises,  causing  complex  and 
often large-scale migration flows and mobility patterns. 
They show the need for a rapid and inclusive response 
that provides immediate life-saving assistance as well 
as  longer-term  life  planning  and  preparedness.  IOM 
has developed a migration crisis operational framework 
that allows for the improvement and systematization of 
such a multidimensional response. The framework was 
recently endorsed by the IOM Council, which comprises 
IOM’s 149 member States.
Secondly,  the  multifaceted  character  of  migration 
requires  strong  partnership  and  coordination  with 
Governments, with partner international organizations 
from a range of areas of expertise, and with many actors 
in  civil  society,  from  academia  to  direct  assistance 
service providers. Working with many partners in the 
process of leveraging expertise to meet the protection, 
assistance  and 
the  affected 
populations is critical to IOM’s operational work.
recovery  needs  of 
12-64810
13
A/67/PV.55
We are grateful to see Member States acknowledge 
in  the  current  draft  humanitarian  omnibus  resolution 
(A/67/L.39)  that  the  effectiveness  of  humanitarian 
response  is  improved  through  coordination  among 
humanitarian  actors.  We  appreciate  the  welcoming 
of  partnerships  with  regional  organizations  and  the 
private  sector.  IOM  highly  values  the  leadership  role 
of  national  Governments  and  continues  to  provide  its 
support  to  them.  Strong  and  consistent  partnerships 
enable us to build long-term solutions.
Thirdly, as the Secretary-General states in his report 
(A/67/89)  on  strengthening  humanitarian  assistance, 
delivering 
is 
essential,  but  it  addresses  only  short-term  needs. 
Long-term development is crucial to limit the need for 
emergency relief in future.
life-saving  support 
in  emergencies 
For IOM, it is therefore of the utmost importance that 
humanitarian and development action be linked in order 
to build national and local preparedness and response 
capacity and to increase the resilience of populations. 
The  multilayered  and  often  long-lasting  challenges 
confronting  migrants  cannot  simply  be  divided  into 
two stages. People on the move may find themselves in 
need of both humanitarian and development assistance; 
one does not preclude the other. Furthermore, to ensure 
sustainability, we must be aware that the transition is 
a  gradual  process  that  requires  both  flexibility  and 
inclusiveness.  Actors  involved  in  both  fields  must 
work  together  to  ensure  a  smooth  transition  from  
relief to development.
To  conclude,  let  me  reiterate  IOM’s  commitment 
to  those  who  are  most  vulnerable.  We  maintain 
our  commitment  to  strengthening  partnerships  and 
coordination  and  are  convinced  that,  as  providers 
of  emergency  humanitarian  assistance,  we  can  and 
must continue to contribute to long-term development 
solutions.
The Acting President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker  in  the  debate  on  agenda  item  70  and  its 
sub-items (a) to (c). 
We shall now proceed to consider draft resolutions 
A/67/L.32, A/67/L.37, A/67/L.38 and A/67/L.39.
The  Assembly  will  first  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution  A/67/L.32, 
“Participation  of 
volunteers, White Helmets, in the activities of the United 
Nations in the field of humanitarian relief, rehabilitation 
and technical cooperation for development”.
entitled 
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr. Zhang Saijin (Department  for  General 
Assembly  and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
like  to  announce  that  since  the  submission  of  the 
draft  resolution  and  in  addition  to  those  delegations 
listed  in  the  draft  document,  the  following  countries 
have  become  sponsors  of  draft  resolution  A/67/L.32: 
Albania, the Dominican Republic, Grenada, Honduras, 
India,  Luxembourg,  Mauritius,  Panama,  Portugal, 
Serbia and Ukraine.
TheActingPresident: May I take it that it is the 
wish of the General Assembly to adopt draft resolution 
A/67/L.32?
Draft resolution A/67/L.32 was adopted (resolution 
67/84). 
The Acting President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take a decision on draft resolution A/67/L.37, entitled 
“Safety  and  security  of  humanitarian  personnel  and 
protection of United Nations personnel”.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr. Zhang Saijin (Department  for  General 
Assembly  and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
like  to  announce  that  since  the  submission  of  the 
draft  resolution  and  in  addition  to  those  delegations 
listed  on  the  draft  document,  the  following  countries 
have  become  sponsors  of  draft  resolution  A/67/L.37: 
Albania,  Argentina,  Georgia,  Honduras,  Madagascar, 
Montenegro,  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  San  Marino, 
Serbia,  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of  Macedonia, 
Tunisia and Ukraine.
TheActingPresident: May I take it that it is the 
wish of the General Assembly to adopt draft resolution 
A/67/L.37?
Draft resolution A/67/L.37 was adopted (resolution 
67/85). 
The Acting President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take a decision on draft resolution A/67/L.38, entitled 
“Assistance to the Palestinian people”.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr. Zhang Saijin (Department  for  General 
Assembly  and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
like to announce that since the submission of the draft 
14 
12-64810
A/67/PV.55
resolution  and  in  addition  to  those  delegations  listed 
on  the  draft  document,  the  following  countries  have 
become sponsors of draft resolution A/67/L.38: Andorra, 
Argentina,  Burkina  Faso,  Guatemala,  Liechtenstein, 
Montenegro, Peru, the Republic of Korea, the Republic 
of  Moldova,  the  Russian  Federation,  San  Marino  and 
Ukraine.
TheActingPresident: May I take it that it is the 
wish of the General Assembly to adopt draft resolution 
A/67/L.38?
Draft resolution A/67L.38 was adopted (resolution 
67/86). 
The Acting President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take a decision on draft resolution A/67/L.39, entitled 
“Strengthening  of  the  coordination  of  emergency 
humanitarian  and  disaster  relief  assistance  of  the 
United Nations”.
I  give  the  floor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr. Zhang Saijin (Department  for  General 
Assembly  and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
like  to  announce  that  since  the  submission  of  the 
draft  resolution  and  in  addition  to  those  delegations 
listed  on  the  draft  document,  the  following  countries 
have  become  sponsors  of  draft  resolution  A/67/L.39: 
Andorra,  Argentina,  Armenia,  Austria,  Chile,  Costa 
Rica,  Croatia,  Guatemala,  Honduras,  Iceland,  India, 
Indonesia, Latvia, Liechtenstein, Madagascar, Mexico, 
Montenegro,  the  Republic  of  Korea,  Romania,  San 
Marino,  Serbia,  Slovakia,  South  Africa,  the  former 
Yugoslav Republic of Macedonia, Tunisia and Ukraine.
TheActingPresident: May I take it that it is the 
wish of the General Assembly to adopt draft resolution 
A/67/L.39?
Draft resolution A/67/L.39 was adopted (resolution 
67/87). 
The Acting President:  The  Assembly  has  thus 
concluded this stage of its consideration of agenda item 
70 and its sub-items (a) to (c).
Programmeofwork
The Acting President:  I  would  like  to  inform 
members  that  consideration  of  the  following  agenda 
items, originally scheduled for Monday, 17 December, 
has  been  postponed  to  a  later  date  to  be  announced: 
agenda item 33, “Prevention of armed conflict”; agenda 
item 34, “Protracted conflicts in the GUAM area and 
their implications for international peace, security and 
development”; and agenda item 120, “Multilingualism”.
The meeting rose at 4.40 p.m.
12-64810
15
