United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
53rd plenary meeting
Wednesday, 12 December 2012, 10 a.m.
New York
A/67/PV.53
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Serbia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Charles 
(Trinidad  and  Tobago),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
The meeting was called to order at 10.15 a.m.
Agenda item 10
Return or restitution of cultural property to the 
countries of origin
Note by the Secretary-General (A/67/219)
Draft resolution (A/67/L.34)
The  Acting  President:  I  give  the  f loor  to  the 
representative  of  Greece  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/67/L.34.
Mr. Mitsialis (Greece): On behalf of its sponsors, 
I  am  pleased  to  introduce  draft  resolution  A/67/L.34, 
entitled  “Return  or  restitution  of  cultural  property 
to  the  countries  of  origin”,  which  we  trust  will  be 
unanimously endorsed by the General Assembly.
At the outset, I would like to thank the Secretary-
General and the Director-General of UNESCO for the 
comprehensive  report  on  the  return  or  restitution  of 
cultural property to the countries of origin (A/67/219). 
The  report  outlines  the  most  significant  developments 
that have taken place in recent years on the matter. 
The  fortieth  anniversary  of  the  1970  Convention 
on  the  Means  of  Prohibiting  and  Preventing  the  Illicit 
Import, Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural 
Property  and  the  increasing  number  of  countries  that 
have  acceded  to  the  instrument,  which  now  amount 
to  123  States  parties;  the  outstanding  work  of  the 
Intergovernmental  Committee 
the 
Return of Cultural Property to its Countries of Origin or 
its Restitution in Case of Illicit Appropriation; and the 
continuing commitment of UNESCO to the attainment 
of that end are only a few of the recent positive steps in 
the fight against the illicit traffic of cultural property.
for  Promoting 
In  the  years  since  the  General  Assembly  adopted 
resolution  64/78,  entitled  “Return  or  restitution  of 
cultural  property  to  the  countries  of  origin”,  major 
developments  have  come  about.  The  draft  resolution 
contained  in  document  A/67/L.34  ref lects  the  state  of 
play in the field. A major step in the effort to return or 
restitute  cultural  property  was  the  convening,  in  June 
in  Paris,  of  the  second  meeting  of  the  States  parties 
to  the  1970  Convention  on  the  Means  of  Prohibiting 
and  Preventing  the  Illicit  Import,  Export  and  Transfer 
of  Ownership  of  Cultural  Property.  The  adoption  of 
the  rules  of  procedure  for  that  meeting  contained  two 
important decisions: the decision to convene every two 
years,  thereby  granting  a  necessary  periodicity  to  the 
meetings,  and  the  creation  of  a  subsidiary  committee 
to  promote  the  purposes  of  the  Convention.  More 
specifically, 
inter 
alia,  review  national  reports  and  prepare  and  submit 
to  the  meeting  of  States  parties  guidelines  aiming  at 
improving the implementation of the 1970 Convention.
the  subsidiary  committee  will, 
Despite  concerted  international  efforts  to  tackle 
the  problem,  the  illicit  traffic  of  cultural  property 
continues  to  pose  a  serious  threat  to  the  cultural 
heritage  of  States.  The  threat  is  higher  in  situations 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-64420 (E)
*1264420*
A/67/PV.53
of  crisis  and  conf lict,  when  cultural  objects  are  often 
smuggled  outside  their  countries  of  origin.  The  draft 
resolution  under  consideration  today  condemns  recent 
attacks  against  world  cultural  heritage  sites  and  calls 
for an immediate end to such acts by reminding States 
parties to the Convention of their obligations under it.
and 
capacity-building 
Awareness-raising 
are 
critical  to  the  success  of  the  efforts  undertaken  in 
the  context  of  the  return  or  restitution  of  cultural 
property.  As  is  highlighted  in  the  draft  resolution, 
UNESCO — along with INTERPOL, the International 
Institute  for  the  Unification  of  Private  Law  and  other 
major  stakeholders  —  continues  to  drive  a  systematic 
campaign  to  increase  the  visibility  of  the  available 
tools  and  to  organize  joint  action  for  the  effective 
protection  of  cultural  heritage.  Furthermore, 
the 
draft  resolution  welcomes  the  presentation  of  model 
legislative provisions on undiscovered cultural objects, 
which  is  another  important  step  towards  combating 
the  phenomenon  of  illegal  excavations  and  ensuring 
that  ownership  of  unearthed  archaeological  objects 
remains  in  their  countries.  Moreover,  interaction  with 
the  international  art  market  with  a  view  to  improving 
practices  in  various  areas  of  expertise  —  such  as 
provenance,  investigation,  ethics  and  procedures  of 
restitution — has proved to be of paramount importance.
Recent  restitution  cases,  either  in  the  framework 
of  the  1970  Convention  or  under  the  auspices  of  the 
Intergovernmental  Committee,  show  the  importance 
of  international  cooperation  in  facing  the  challenge. 
The  restitution  from  Canada  to  Bulgaria  of  21,000 
coins, jewels and other artifacts that had been illicitly 
imported  to  Canada  and  seized  by  the  Canadian 
police,  and  the  restitution  of  the  Boğazköy  Sphinx  to 
Turkey, to mention only two cases, are clear examples 
of  the  successful  use  of  available  tools,  be  they  legal 
instruments or bilateral agreements.
Its  cultural  heritage  is  the  mirror  of  a  country’s 
history  and  therefore  lies  within  the  very  core  of  its 
existence,  since  it  represents  not  only  specific  values 
and  traditions  but  also  the  unique  way  that  a  people 
perceives the world. Whether it is a Makonde mask, an 
Etruscan vase or a Parthenon frieze, each is a testimony 
to a nation’s path in time. But if they are to continue to 
serve  their  artistic,  aesthetic  and  social  raisons  d’être, 
they must be protected against illicit acts and use and, 
in such cases, be restored and returned to their natural 
environment,  outside  of  which  they  can  no  longer 
inspire  the  collective  conscience  of  humanity.  That  is 
precisely  the  reason  for  which  the  objectives  of  this 
draft resolution should leave no State indifferent.
Mr.  Estreme  (Argentina)  (spoke 
in  Spanish): 
Argentina wishes to express its support for the adoption 
of  draft  resolution  A/67/L.34,  intended  to  protect  and 
safeguard the historical and cultural heritage of States. 
The cultural heritage of a State bears clear, unequivocal 
witness  to  its  identity.  For  that  reason,  Argentina  is 
firmly committed to combating the unlawful trafficking 
of cultural property, which can no longer be considered 
booty but is rather a fundamental element of a people’s 
civilization and culture.
to 
is  party 
Argentina 
the  1970  UNESCO 
Convention on the Means of Prohibiting and Preventing 
the  Illicit  Import,  Export  and  Transfer  of  Ownership 
of  Cultural  Property.  That  valuable 
international 
instrument  has  now  been  in  force  for  40  years  and 
represents  a  milestone.  In  coordination  with  the 
countries  of  its  region,  Argentina  has  promoted  the 
adoption  of  measures  and  mechanisms  to  foster  the 
effective  application  of  the  Convention  and  to  address 
the challenges connected with the protection of cultural 
property  in  today’s  world,  to  analyse  strengths  and 
weaknesses, and to identify future challenges. 
In  2013,  Argentina  hopes  to  join  the  recently 
established committee for follow-up to the Convention, 
with an eye to promoting initiatives to ensure a better 
and  more  effective  implementation  of  its  provisions. 
That  hope  is  in  keeping  with  our  membership  in  both 
the  Intergovernmental  Committee  for  Promoting  the 
Return of Cultural Property to its Countries of Origin 
or its Restitution in Case of Illicit Appropriation and in 
the UNESCO Committee for the Protection of Cultural 
Property in the Event of Armed Conf lict. We are party 
to  the  International  Institute  for  the  Unification  of 
Private Law Convention on Stolen or Illegally Exported 
Cultural  Objects,  the  Convention  on  the  Protection  of 
the  Archaeological,  Historical  and  Artistic  Heritage 
of  the  American  Nations,  and  all  other  international 
instruments  relating  to  the  protection  of  national 
cultural heritage. 
Our  devotion  to  protecting  the  cultural  heritage 
of  peoples  has  led  us  to  create  national  mechanisms 
to  combat  unlawful  trafficking  in  cultural  property, 
in  particular  the  Argentine  Committee  to  Combat  the 
Unlawful Trafficking of Cultural Property, which is an 
interministerial  entity  to  establish  the  procedures  and 
mechanisms  necessary  to  preventing  and  combating 
2 
12-64420
unlawful trafficking in such property. The Committee 
works  in  close  coordination  with  INTERPOL,  which 
maintains  a  database  of  stolen  cultural  goods.  Among 
the entities that have recently joined the Committee, we 
call attention to the Financial Information Unit, which 
is responsible for preventing and investigating money-
laundering  and  has  established  clear  standards  for  the 
lawful purchase and sale of cultural property.
items  from 
Given  its  geographic  location  in  South  America, 
Argentina  is  very  sensitive  to  the  trafficking  of 
archaeological 
the  pre-Hispanic  era. 
However,  I  want  to  draw  attention  to  recent  positive 
developments,  such  as  the  return  of  archaeological 
property  to  Peru  in  Buenos  Aires  in  February.  Forty-
six ceramic pieces and a necklace were returned under 
the  bilateral  convention  on  the  matter.  Similarly,  in 
November 2011 the Oswaldo Cruz Foundation returned 
to  the  Brazilian  authorities  an  important  collection 
that  had  been  illegally  brought  into  Argentina.  Other 
examples of note are the return of Argentine fossils by 
the United States in 2008 and by Australia in 2010. 
The  illicit  traffic  in  cultural  property  has  become 
a  serious,  increasingly  sophisticated  world  problem 
that is linked to other illegal trade. Moreover, modern 
technologies  have  created  sophisticated  networks  of 
contraband  and  illegal  traffic  through  the  Internet. 
Fighting  it  requires  the  development  of  common 
strategies to detect and prevent such transactions.
Cooperation  among  States 
through  bilateral 
agreements  on 
restitution  of  cultural  property 
should  absolutely  be  encouraged.  Similarly,  States’ 
active  involvement  in  the  work  of  UNESCO  through 
participation  in  the  conventions  on  the  subject  and 
the  enactment  of  national  legislation  ref lecting  those 
international  commitments  would  be  an  effective  way 
to  reduce  the  pernicious  effects  of  illegal  traffic  in 
cultural  property  on  the  living  historical  heritage  of 
nations.
Mr.  Emiliou  (Cyprus):  The  issue  of  the  return  or 
restitution of cultural property to the countries of origin 
constitutes an area in which international relations are 
put to the test — a noble test, I would say — to ensure 
that  cooperation  among  State  and  non-State  actors 
can  positively  affect  the  lofty  goal  of  protecting  the 
cultural heritage of humankind. My delegation attaches 
particular importance to the issue and to the efforts of 
the United Nations in general, and the United Nations 
Educational,  Scientific  and  Cultural  Organization 
(UNESCO)  in  particular,  for  the  considerable  work 
A/67/PV.53
being done on the subject. In that respect, we welcome 
the  report  of  the  Director-General  of  UNESCO, 
contained in document A/67/219.
Cyprus,  as  a  State  party  to  the  1954  Hague 
Convention for the Protection of Cultural Property in the 
Event of Armed Conf lict, and a signatory of its Second 
Protocol, follows with interest the work undertaken to 
address the illicit sale of cultural objects on the Internet 
and  the  need  for  Member  States  to  adopt  appropriate 
international  legislation  in  the  field.  The  combating 
of  illicit  trafficking  in  cultural  property  is  a  task  that 
requires  perseverance  and  multifaceted  collaborative 
efforts.  One  of  the  major  efforts  to  that  end  is  the 
promotion of international documentation for recording 
data  of  cultural  property  and  the  dissemination  of 
information in order to assist in its recovery.
Cyprus  also  takes  the  view  that,  in  order  to  stop 
illicit trafficking, States should ensure that customs and 
border control officials are fully trained in their duties 
to  apply  the  rules  of  the  UNESCO  Convention  on  the 
Means of Prohibiting and Preventing the Illicit Import, 
Export and Transfer of Ownership of Cultural Property 
of 1970, and to report any cases of illicit activity to the 
appropriate authorities of the State party concerned.
My  country  is  fortunate  to  have  9,000  years  of 
recorded civilization, which have left us with an immense 
stock of cultural heritage which we have an obligation 
to protect and bequeath to future generations. By virtue 
of  its  geographical  position  at  the  crossroads  of  three 
continents  and  many  civilizations,  Cyprus’  cultural 
heritage has, through the millennia, been continuously 
enriched  and  provides  a  unique  insight  into  the  many 
civilizations  that  have  existed  on  the  island  during 
its  long  and  eventful  history.  Many  of  the  artefacts  of 
this  rich  cultural  history  can  be  viewed  in  museums 
throughout the world. Many more, unfortunately, have 
become  the  objects  of  illicit  trafficking,  especially 
those removed illegally from the territory of the island 
under occupation since 1974.
The  devastation  in  the  occupied  areas  of  Cyprus 
is  systematic  and  widespread.  Churches,  chapels, 
monasteries,  cemeteries, 
libraries,  museums  and 
private collections of religious art and antiquities have 
been  destroyed  and  looted.  The  illicit  trade  operating 
from the occupied area of Cyprus has been illustrated 
by a number of cases brought to courts around the world 
by the Church of Cyprus, which is the rightful owner of 
many of those artefacts.
12-64420
3
A/67/PV.53
case  with 
One  well-known 
international 
repercussions was the removal and illegal export of the 
Kanakaria Church mosaics, a rare work of art dating to 
the sixth century A.D. A lawsuit filed by the Orthodox 
Church of Cyprus in the United States District Court of 
Indianapolis  resulted  in  a  judgement  in  1989  whereby 
the  mosaics  were  returned  to  their  rightful  owner,  the 
Church of Cyprus, two years later. A related case filed 
before  a  German  court  led  to  a  court  decision  in  2010 
that  opened  the  way  for  the  repatriation  to  Cyprus  of 
artefacts looted from Kanakaria and other churches and 
monasteries.
Prevention,  customs  training,  criminal  justice 
responses and international cooperation lie at the heart 
of our strategy on this exceptionally important topic. We 
reiterate our unwavering determination to use all legal 
and  political  means  necessary  to  repatriate  cultural 
treasures that were illegally obtained from us. We look 
to the international community to extend its solidarity 
and support to our efforts to protect an invaluable part 
of the cultural heritage of humanity.
Mr.  Ragaglini  (Italy):  I  congratulate  Greece  on 
proposing  to  the  General  Assembly  once  again  the 
universally  important  theme  of  safeguarding  cultural 
heritage  and  the  return  of  cultural  property  to  the 
countries  of  origin.  Italy  is  one  of  the  traditional 
sponsors of the important resolution under this agenda 
item.  With  47  sites  on  the  UNESCO  World  Heritage 
List,  we  are  home  to  a  large  share  of  the  planet’s 
cultural,  artistic  and  landscape  heritage.  It  is  the  fruit 
of  the  ancient  civilizations  that  traveled  through  and 
settled  in  Italy  over  the  millennia,  leaving  behind  a 
unique legacy of different cultures and identities.
The  safeguarding,  promotion  and  appreciation  of 
cultural  and  artistic  heritage  have  universal  value.  In 
the  words  of  the  great  Italian  writer  Giorgio  Bassani, 
a  forefather  of  the  conservationist  movement  in  Italy: 
“Artistic  heritage  is  the  proof,  the  timely  witness,  to 
the  spiritual  process  that  has  changed  the  profile  of 
civilization”.  There  can  be  no  common  progress  and 
no mutual respect between peoples without a profound 
understanding of the spiritual process to which Bassani 
refers.  There  is  an  unbreakable  bond  —  both  local 
and  universal  —  between  cultural  properties  and 
their  place  of  conception  and  creation.  The  return  of 
cultural properties to their countries of origin thus has 
a fundamental historic, spiritual and political value.
UNESCO  and  the  International  Institute  for  the 
Unification  of  Private  Law  (UNIDROIT)  are  driving 
forces in this common effort, as is well described in the 
excellent  report  transmitted  by  the  Secretary-General 
(A/67/219)  for  which  we  are  extremely  grateful.  With 
renewed energy, we must continue initiatives to develop 
legal, practical and awareness-raising tools to improve 
the  implementation  of  the  universal  legal  framework 
and 
international  cooperation  with  governmental 
and  non-governmental  organizations,  the  art  market, 
cultural  and  educational  institutions,  museums  and 
civil society.
The General Assembly’s adoption by consensus of 
draft  resolution  A/67/L.34  will  send  a  clear  message 
that the protection of cultural assets and their return to 
their  States  of  origin  must  remain  high  on  the  United 
Nations agenda. We are pleased by the insertion of new 
language,  such  as  the  invitation  to  Member  States  to 
adopt appropriate legislation and to consider trafficking 
in  illicitly  acquired  exported  cultural  properties  as  a 
serious  crime.  The  definition  of  “serious  crime”,  we 
were  pleased  to  note,  refers  explicitly  to  the  Palermo 
Convention.  Finally,  I  applaud  paragraph  15,  which 
urges  the  establishment  of  national,  regional  and 
international databases inventorying cultural property.
In recent decades, Italy has developed good practices 
for the recovery of illicitly acquired cultural properties 
and  shared  its  experience  with  the  international 
community.  In  1969,  Italy  became  the  first  country  in 
the  world  to  have  a  specialized  police  division  —  the 
Carabinieri  Art  Squad  —  to  address  trafficking  in 
cultural  properties.  The  Squad  has  created  a  national 
database that carefully documents stolen works in more 
than 400,000 photographs, offering a valuable resource 
for  law  enforcement  agencies  as  well  as  purchasers  of 
artworks. Over the years, the Carabinieri Art Squad has 
achieved remarkable results in the recovery and return 
of illegally acquired and exported cultural properties, in 
cooperation with States Members of the United Nations, 
UNESCO,  INTERPOL,  UNIDROIT  and  the  United 
Nations Office on Drugs and Crime. It has also trained 
specialized police forces and protected cultural heritage 
sites in Albania, Afghanistan, Bosnia and Herzegovina, 
Ethiopia, Jordan and Iraq. This past summer, the Italian 
authorities  and  UNESCO  held  a  unique  exhibition 
of  some  30  stolen  and  recovered  cultural  items,  to 
highlight  the  importance  of  international  cooperation 
in combating trafficking in cultural property.
In  conclusion,  Italy  remains  fully  committed  to 
participating in the common efforts of Member States to 
fight trafficking in cultural property and facilitate the 
4 
12-64420
return  of  illicitly-appropriated  assets  to  the  countries 
of origin.
Mrs. Sucuoğlu (Turkey): We would like to express 
our full support for draft resolution A/67/L.34, entitled 
“Return  of  restitution  of  cultural  property  to  the 
countries of origin”.
Despite  the  increasing  awareness  and  capacity-
building  efforts  to  tackle  illicit  trading  of  cultural 
heritage,  the  problem  has  been  ongoing,  not  least  in 
the  Mediterranean  region.  In  situations  of  conf lict 
or  instability,  the  risk  of  illicit  trafficking  of  cultural 
property is even higher. 
To remove artefacts from their natural and historical 
context is to commit a crime against humankind. Illicit 
trading in cultural property falls into the same category 
as  illegal  arms  trading,  drugs  and  human  trafficking. 
We strongly believe that cultural assets will find their 
real value by being protected on their own soil.
International  efforts  to  combat  the  illicit  trade  in 
cultural  properties  require  the  active  involvement  of 
all Member States, cultural and education institutions, 
museums and civil society. At the core of the efforts to 
protect cultural heritage lies the active involvement of 
UNESCO. We would like to express our appreciation to 
UNESCO for its valuable efforts to that end.
The  need  to  enhance  international  cooperation  in 
this  area  is  ref lected  in  the  draft  resolution  before  us. 
It  highlights  initiatives  set  forth  at  the  international 
level  through  treaties,  conventions  and  the  policies  of 
UNESCO.  It  promotes  cooperation  between  nations 
aiming to preserve the cultural heritage of humankind. 
It  provides  for  the  return  and  restitution  of  cultural 
treasures  illegally  removed  from  their  place  of  origin. 
We  therefore  support  all  activities  and  efforts  which 
will contribute to international cooperation in this area. 
In  that  context,  Turkey  supports  the  draft  resolution 
submitted by Greece.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take a decision on draft resolution A/67/L.34.
I  give  the  f loor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Botnaru  (Department  for  General  Assembly 
and  Conference  Management):  Since  the  submission 
of  the  draft  resolution,  and  in  addition  to  those 
delegations listed in document A/67/L.34, the following 
countries have become sponsors: Albania, Azerbaijan, 
A/67/PV.53
Bangladesh,  Burundi,  the  Central  African  Republic, 
Costa  Rica,  Djibouti, 
the  Dominican  Republic, 
Honduras, Iceland, Indonesia, Kazakhstan, Mauritania, 
Paraguay,  Peru,  Qatar,  the  Russian  Federation,  Sri 
Lanka,  Suriname,  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia, Timor-Leste, Uganda, Ukraine, the United 
Republic of Tanzania, Yemen and Zimbabwe.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  that 
it  is  the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  adopt  draft 
resolution A/67/L.34?
Draft 
(resolution 67/80).
resolution  A/67/L.34  was 
adopted 
The  Acting  President:  May  I  also  take  it  that  it 
is  the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda item 10?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 123
Global health and foreign policy
Note by the Secretary-General (A/67/377)
Draft resolution (A/67/L.36)
The Acting President: I now give the f loor to the 
representative  of  France  to  introduce  draft  resolution 
A/67/L.36.
Mr.  Araud  (France)  (spoke  in  French):  I  have  the 
honour  to  introduce  draft  resolution  A/67/L.36,  under 
agenda  item  123,    “Global  health  and  foreign  policy”, 
on  behalf  of  the  seven  members  of  the  diplomacy 
and  health  group:  Brazil,  France,  Indonesia,  Norway, 
Senegal, South Africa and Thailand.
I 
thank 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  note 
transmitting  the  report  of  the  Director-General  of  the 
World  Health  Organization,  pursuant  to  resolution 
66/115 of 12 December 2011 (A/67/377).
Since  2007,  the  initiative  on  global  health  and 
foreign policy has sought to strengthen the place given 
to  health  among  the  priorities  of  the  international 
community  and  to  raise  the  profile  of  global  health  in 
the development of foreign policy. To that end, each year 
our  group  introduces  a  draft  resolution  on  emerging 
global health problems.
For  the  sixty-seventh  session  of  the  General 
Assembly,  we  are  introducing  the  topic  of  universal 
health  coverage,  in  the  light  of  its  crucial  impact 
12-64420
5
A/67/PV.53
on  improving  the  level  of  health  around  the  world, 
effectively fighting poverty and promoting sustainable 
development.
I  would  first  like  to  observe  that,  despite  the 
progress  that  has  been  made,  many  tasks  remain  to 
be  achieved  for  us  to  attain  the  three  health-related 
Millennium  Development  Goals.  Beyond 
those 
enduring  challenges,  the  international  community 
has  taken  on  the  issue  of  non-communicable  diseases, 
which  now  affect  all  countries.  One  billion  people  do 
not have access to health services when they need them, 
a  fact  that  is  compromising  the  effectiveness  of  our 
efforts to improve global health.
To  respond  to  these  challenges,  universal  health 
coverage  is  a  comprehensive,  inclusive  and  dynamic 
objective.  It  is  a  comprehensive  objective  because 
universal  health  coverage  contributes  to  improving 
access  for  populations  to  the  health  services  they 
need,  including  maternal  and  child  health  services, 
sexual  and  reproductive  health  services,  the  fight 
against  HIV  and  AIDS,  tuberculosis  and  malaria,  and 
the  prevention  of  non-communicable  diseases.  By 
strengthening  health  systems  through  a  cross-cutting 
approach,  universal  health  coverage  contributes  to the 
realization of specific goals. That is why it is promoted 
by the initiative of the Secretary-General for women’s 
and children’s health. These two axes — horizontal and 
vertical — are complementary.
It is an inclusive objective because universal health 
coverage  helps  to  ensure  fairness  and  reduce  poverty. 
The World Health Organization estimates that 100,000 
people fall below the poverty line each year due to illness 
or  health-care  costs.  Universal  health  care  coverage 
would allow everyone to receive the services they need, 
including  access  to  medications,  without  running  the 
risk of falling into poverty. The draft resolution is built 
around these two forms of protection: access to health 
services and financial protection.
It  is  also  a  dynamic  objective  because  it  seeks  to 
move  towards  universal  coverage  for  populations  in 
terms  of  health  services  and  related  costs.  The  draft 
resolution  recognizes  the  urgency  of  that  process,  but 
it does not impose any model, as the financing system 
selected  will  depend  on  the  context  of  each  country. 
It  encourages  strengthened  cooperation  among  States 
to  promote  the  implementation  of  universal  health 
coverage.
As  a  comprehensive, 
inclusive  and  dynamic 
objective, universal health coverage seems particularly 
well  adapted  to  the  post-2015  agenda.  The  United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
marked  the  key  role  of  social  protection  in  combating 
poverty.  It  recognized  the  central  role  of  health  as 
a  precondition,  consequence  and  indicator  of  the 
three  dimensions  of  sustainable  development.  The 
draft  resolution  therefore  encourages  States  to  adopt 
multisectoral  approaches  to  reduce  inequalities  and 
promote sustainable development.
The  draft  proposes  follow-up  action  within  the 
framework of discussions on the post-2015 development 
agenda  in  the  Economic  and  Social  Council  in  2013 
and  in  the  General  Assembly.  It  builds  on  the  work 
on  universal  health  coverage  by  the  World  Health 
Assembly and by regional conferences held this year in 
Bangkok, Mexico City and Tunis, which demonstrated 
the growing interest in the subject.
The  draft  resolution  entitled  “Global  health  and 
foreign  policy”  is  the  fifth  on  the  topic  since  2008.  It 
urges States to consider health issues in the formulation 
of foreign policy.
I  thank  all  delegations  that  participated  in  the 
consultations and sponsored the draft resolution.
Mrs.  Martínez  Lievano  (Mexico)  (spoke 
in 
Spanish):  We  wish  to  thank  the  Director-General  of 
the  World  Health  Organization  (WHO),  Ms.  Margaret 
Chan, for her report (see A/67/377), which was prepared 
pursuant  to  resolution  66/115  and  which  develops 
the  links  between  health  and  the  environment  and 
between health and natural disasters. We also welcome 
draft  resolution  A/67/L.36,  submitted  by  the  health 
and  foreign  policy  group,  which  ref lects  the  desire  of 
Member  States  to  work  for  universal  health  coverage. 
Mexico  views  both  the  report  and  the  draft  resolution 
as  further  steps  in  the  impetus  the  international 
community  has  given  to  discussions  of  health  matters 
at the global level. 
Among  the  advances  made  in  recent  years,  we 
note  the  outcomes  of  the  High-level  Meeting  of  the 
General  Assembly  on  the  Prevention  and  Control  of 
Non-communicable  Diseases,  the  High-level  Meeting 
on  HIV/AIDS,  and  the  World  Conference  on  Social 
Determinants  of  Health,  as  well  as  resolutions  on 
the  subject  adopted  by  the  World  Health  Assembly 
in  Geneva.  In  that  respect,  the  inclusion  of  health 
issues in the outcome document of the United Nations 
6 
12-64420
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  (resolution 
66/288,  annex)  is  very  significant.  My  delegation 
applauds the acknowledgment of health as an intrinsic 
part  of  sustainable  development  that  is  cross-related 
to  the  three  pillars  of  development:  the  economic,  the 
social and the environmental spheres. 
A ministerial forum on sustaining universal health 
coverage, sharing experiences and supporting progress 
was held on 2 April in Mexico City, with the participation 
of  Ms.  Chan  and  representatives  of  21  countries 
from  five  continents  and  the  six  regions  of  the  World 
Health  Organization.    On  that  occasion,  delegations 
stressed  their  points  of  convergence  with  a  view  to 
crafting  a  shared  vision  and  political  message  aimed 
at  strengthening  universal  health  coverage  as  a  means 
of  addressing  the  continuous  and  growing  challenges 
of  sustainable  social  development.  The  Mexico  City 
Political  Declaration  on  Universal  Health  Coverage 
made  it  clear  that  universal  health  coverage  should 
be  a  central  element  of  the  international  development 
agenda  and  supported  by  Governments,  international 
organizations, civil society and the private sector. 
On behalf of my delegation, I wish to make several 
remarks  on  universal  health  coverage  as  a  tool  for 
sustainable development at the global level. 
First,  our  discussions  have  shown 
that  our 
Governments  and  societies  need  to  invest  more  in 
health, even in a context of scarce available resources.  
Secondly,  in  order  to  make  that  a  reality,  political 
support for the issue of health is critical as an expression 
of the will and vision that the international community 
brings to the task of improving the coverage and quality 
of  the  health  services  our  people  receive.  Thirdly, 
resources  allocated 
to  universal  health  coverage 
constitute one of the most profitable investments in the 
future  of  our  countries,  as  they  contribute  not  only  to 
economic  growth  but  also  to  the  well-being,  equality 
and sustainable development of our peoples. 
Today,  a  growing  number  of  countries  around  the 
world,  representing  all  levels  of  development,  have 
some form of universal health coverage.  In Mexico, the 
creation of the social health-care system — commonly 
referred to as the people’s health insurance — has given 
equal access to more than 106 million Mexicans.  The 
challenge  to  those  countries  that  have  made  universal 
health  coverage  a  fundamental  goal  for  the  well-
being of our societies is to ensure its sustainability. To 
that  end,  it  is  very  important  to  continue  sharing  the 
best  international  practices  on  matters  of  financing, 
A/67/PV.53
implementation,  coordination  and  evaluation.  In  that 
regard, we believe that the issue of health, and universal 
health  coverage  in  particular,  should  be  given  serious 
consideration in our upcoming discussions on the post-
2015 international development agenda.  
The  international  community  needs  to  address 
the  challenge  of  achieving  the  full  implementation, 
improvement, 
of 
health  services  in  our  countries.    Mexico  affirms  its 
commitment  to  continuing  to  work  on  the  points  of 
convergence  between  the  health  sector  and  foreign 
policy within the framework of those discussions. 
sustainability 
continuity 
and 
Ms.  Prince  (United  States  of  America):  The 
expansion  of  health  care  coverage  has  been  at  the 
forefront of our domestic agenda, and we believe that it 
is appropriate for the international community to begin 
putting it at the forefront of its agenda as well.
Universal  health  coverage  is  fundamentally  about 
all people having equal access to care. President Obama 
has made access to health care a landmark issue of his 
Administration through the Affordable Care Act, which 
seeks  to  dramatically  expand  Americans’  access  to 
health-care services. The Affordable Care Act advances 
that  goal  for  the  United  States  and  includes  numerous 
provisions  to  keep-health  care  costs  low,  promote 
prevention,  and  ultimately  expand  health  coverage  to 
30 million Americans who are currently living without 
coverage.
The  United  States  believes  that  health  coverage  is 
a national-level concern and responsibility and that, in 
order  to  ensure  progress  and  sustainability,  national 
Governments must take on the fundamental challenges 
of  moving  towards  more  inclusive  access.  That  is 
particularly  relevant  at  a  time  when  the  economies  of 
many low- and middle-income countries are undergoing 
unprecedented economic transition. Half the countries 
that  were  low-income  in  the  year  2000  have  already 
become or will become middle-income by 2020.
Draft  resolution  A/67/L.36,  which  we  are  about 
to  adopt,  acknowledges  the  diversity  of  approaches  to 
financing and sustaining health-care systems that seek 
to achieve universal health coverage. The United States 
thanks  France  and  the  core  group  of  sponsors  for  the 
open  and  inclusive  way  in  which  they  developed  this 
session’s  draft  resolution  on  global  health  and  foreign 
policy  and  moving  towards  universal  health  coverage. 
We recognize the relevance of the topic and are pleased 
to be a sponsor of that important draft resolution.
12-64420
7
A/67/PV.53
We recognize the importance of access to medicine 
and  further  note  that  countries  have  a  wide  array 
of  policies  and  actions  that  may  be  appropriate  in 
promoting  the  progressive  realization  of  the  right  to 
enjoy  the  highest  available  standard  of  physical  and 
mental  health  care.  We  therefore  think  that  the  draft 
resolution  should  not  try  to  define  the  content  of  that 
right. Furthermore, to the extent that it is implied in the 
draft  resolution,  the  United  States  does  not  recognize 
the creation of any new right that we have not previously 
recognized, the expansion of the content or coverage of 
existing rights, or any other change in the current state 
of treaty or customary international law.
The  United  States  acknowledges  the  importance 
of  universal  health  coverage  as  a  means  of  addressing 
global  health  challenges  as  we  seek  to  achieve  the 
Millennium  Development  Goals  and  discuss 
the 
post-2015  development  agenda.  We  also  welcome 
the  continued  focus  on  health  as  a  critical  foreign 
policy  issue,  and  we  are  enhancing  the  United  States 
State  Department’s  capabilities  to  conduct  diplomacy 
in  support  of  global  health,  including  through  the 
upcoming naming of a global health ambassador.
The  United  States  is  committed  to  partnering 
with  countries  in  their  efforts  to  strengthen  health 
systems in areas that help expand access, reduce health 
disparities  and  strengthen  capacities.  We  do  this  by 
improving health-resource tracking to enable countries 
to understand the dynamics and gaps in current health 
financing  arrangements  as  a  first  step  to  improving 
them.  Our  development  assistance  helps  countries 
lay  the  foundations  for  universal  health  coverage 
by  strengthening  and  increasing  human  resources 
for  health,  identifying  and  scaling  up  high-impact 
interventions,  improving  the  quality  and  efficient 
purchasing  of  medicines,  strengthening  institutional 
and  management  capacities,  and 
improving  and 
institutionalizing quality of care. 
is 
real,  both  domestically 
The  need  is  plain  and  the  challenge  to  our 
and 
Governments 
internationally. Advancing global health for all remains 
a top priority for the United States. Today’s important 
draft resolution confirms the centrality of the challenge 
and the opportunity before us.
Mr. Yamazaki (Japan): It gives me great pleasure to 
brief ly state my Government’s position on global health 
issues,  including  universal  health  coverage,  on  the 
occasion of the adoption of draft resolution A/67/L.26, 
entitled “Global health and foreign policy”. Health plays 
a crucial role in economic and social development. We 
appreciate the fact that the draft resolution encourages 
universal  health  coverage  in  an  inclusive  and  fiscally 
sustainable manner. 
Many  societies  in  the  world  are  rapidly  ageing. 
As  the  population  gets  older,  the  burden  on  the  aged, 
their families and their societies is expected to increase 
rapidly  because  of  the  rise  in  the  number  of  older 
people  with  non-communicable  diseases  and  mental 
disorders.  Japan  is  experiencing  the  ageing  of  society 
ahead  of  others  around  the  world.  In  order  to  prepare 
for this unprecedented situation, Japan has introduced 
various  measures,  such  as  long-term-care  insurance 
and  comprehensive  health  promotion  measures,  in 
cooperation  with  relevant  entities.  Thanks  to  these 
efforts,  Japan  has  been  able  to  attain  high  marks  for 
its population, with increasingly good health, including 
long life expectancies.
One  of  the  factors  that  contributed  to  the  success 
in Japan is the fact that we were able to attain universal 
health  coverage.  That  situation  was  brought  about  50 
years  ago  by  establishing  a  public  health  insurance 
system  for  the  whole  nation.  The  following  three 
characteristics  of  our  experience  with  the  system 
should  be  pointed  out.  First,  all  people  have  access 
to  high-quality  medical  services,  regardless  of  their 
occupation  or  income.  Secondly,  patients  can  choose 
whichever medical institution they wish to visit for the 
same  price.  And  finally,  we  have  managed  to  control 
overall medical expenses.
Japan  is  proud  to  be  able  to  provide  such  access 
to  medical  services  for  the  entire  nation.  In  order  to 
share  that  experience  with  other  countries,  Japan  has 
collaborated  with  the  World  Bank  on  research  into 
methods  for  financing  universal  health  insurance 
coverage. We look forward to sharing the results of that 
research  with  all  Member  States  and  other  interested 
parties in the near future.
Although  only  two  years  remain  until  the  target 
date  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals  (MDGs), 
challenges  remain  on  issues  such  as  maternal  health 
and water sanitation. Those areas require more effort on 
our part if we are to attain the MDGs. We believe that 
universal  health  coverage  will  be  crucial  to  achieving 
the  MDGs.  In  order  for  an  entire  nation  to  access 
adequate  and  high-quality  medical  services,  it  will  be 
indispensable to strengthen a sustainable health system 
for that nation. My delegation has mentioned that point 
on various occasions.
8 
12-64420
A/67/PV.53
Furthermore,  the  Government  of  Japan  believes 
that  universal  access  to  simple  and  effective  health 
interventions,  such  as  vaccination,  is  also  important 
for global health. At the moment, the challenge of polio 
eradication is at an important stage. Japan will continue 
to  support  efforts  to  bring  results  in  the  field  of  polio 
eradication.
Finally,  my  delegation  is  aware  that  the  value  of 
health  has  been  increasing  in  modern  society,  where 
situations change quite rapidly. In that regard, it is useful 
to  address  health  issues  from  the  viewpoint  of  human 
security, which calls for people-centred, comprehensive, 
context-specific  and  prevention-oriented  responses 
that strengthen the protection and empowerment of all 
people and all communities.
The  world  continues  to  face  many  challenges  in 
the field of global health and therefore requires global 
cooperation.  In  that  regard,  it  is  important  that  we 
continue  the  discussions  on  global  health  and  foreign 
policy.  As  a  member  of  the  global  health  community, 
Japan will be able to contribute to the efforts to strive 
for universal health coverage and intends to continue to 
participate in the discussion actively.
Mr. Khan (Indonesia): At this meeting, Indonesia 
would  like  to  address  issues  under  agenda  items  123 
and 127.
We all are aware that global health remains one of 
the biggest challenges facing the world. We continue to 
believe that pandemic issues, such as avian inf luenza, 
HIV/AIDS,  malaria  and  severe  acute  respiratory 
syndrome,  in  addition  to  being  health  problems, 
can 
threaten  a  country’s  economy  and  security. 
Consequently,  Indonesia  affirms  the  need  for  the 
Foreign Policy and Global Health Initiative to redouble 
efforts  to  improve  the  state  of  global  health.  In  that 
regard, there is a need to clearly define our priorities in 
strengthening  global  health  in  the  context  of  the  post-
2015 development agenda.
Indonesia  would  suggest  that  some  elements  of 
the  Oslo  Ministerial  Declaration  —  including  the 
availability and affordability of basic needs, including 
health services; improved capacity; ensured services in 
emergency  situations;  and  the  linkage  between  global 
health  and  environment  —  be  incorporated  into  the 
post-2015 development agenda.
We recall that the outcome document of the United 
Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable  Development 
(resolution  66/288,  annex)  affirmed  the  importance 
of  universal  health  coverage  in  achieving  sustainable 
development.  This  year,  therefore,  we  have  fully 
supported  and  sponsored  draft  resolution  A/67/L.36, 
introduced  by  the  representative  of  France,  which 
focuses on moving towards universal health coverage.
It  is  obvious  that  on  the  one  hand,  poverty 
continues to be the main cause of health problems. On 
the other hand, poverty alleviation is closely linked to 
public  health  interventions.  Therefore,  we  underscore 
the  need  to  attain  universal  access  to  quality  health 
services.  That  entails  providing  preventive  measures, 
care, treatment and medical products without imposing 
a huge cost burden on the people. 
Achieving  that  objective,  however,  requires  the 
robust implementation of the 10 priority areas stipulated 
in the Oslo Declaration, and the outreach programme to 
non-members  of  the  foreign  policy  and  global  health 
group  be  pursued.  Today,  we  would  like  to  inform 
the  Assembly  that  Indonesia  is  honoured  to  assume 
the  position  of  coordinator  of  the  foreign  policy  and 
global health group meetings in 2013. In assuming that 
responsibility,  we  will  ensure  that  the  foreign  policy 
and  global  health  group  will  continue  to  be  active  in 
promoting and raising health issues in the formulation 
of foreign policy. 
It  is  widely  recognized  that  autism  symptoms  in 
children have been on the rise for some time. In Indonesia 
itself, the incidence of autism has significantly increased 
in the past few years and is worrying. Despite the lack 
of official data on the number of people with autism in 
Indonesia,  it  is  assumed  that  for  every  10,000  births, 
there are 15 to 20 children born with autism. Until now, 
in Indonesia, as in most developing countries, dealing 
with autism has been very complicated. 
Psychologists  and  therapists  agree  that  autism  is 
not  a  type  of  ailment  or  form  of  mental  retardation. 
Indeed,  children  with  autism  spectrum  disorder  often 
show  extraordinary  cognitive  potential.  According  to 
some  studies,  a  number  of  structural  difficulties  have 
been  identified  in  dealing  with  problems  of  autism  in 
Indonesia,  such  as  lack  of  professional  personnel,  the 
public  view  of  autism,  costly  treatment,  the  failure  of 
insurance  to  cover  autistic  children,  and  problems  at 
school. However, as part of its efforts to create greater 
understanding  for  children  with  autism,  Indonesia  has 
continuously  made  the  efforts  necessary,  including 
in  collaboration  with  civil  society  organizations  and 
12-64420
9
A/67/PV.53
foundations, among others, by organizing seminars and 
training  for  teachers  and  parents  and  creating  caring 
communities in targeted cities for those with autism. 
As part of our outreach and awareness programme, 
on  the  occasion  of  the  commemoration  of  the  World 
Autism  Day  in  April,  the  Ministry  of  Health,  in 
collaboration with the Cabinet Ministers’ Wives Club, 
jointly organized the Walk for Autism and the Autism 
Expo  2012.  Indonesia  believes  that  a  coordinated  and 
multi-pronged  global  response  to  autism,  particularly 
with a view to developing funding and building capacity, 
would  greatly  advance  the  interests  and  well-being  of 
millions of individuals and families living with autism. 
In view of the foregoing, Indonesia wholeheartedly 
supports  and  sponsors  draft  resolution  A/67/L.33, 
on  autism  spectrum  disorders  and  developmental 
disabilities, initiated by Bangladesh. 
Mr.  Lee  (Singapore):  Singapore  welcomes  draft 
resolution  A/67/L.36,  on  moving  towards  universal 
health  coverage,  and  thanks  the  foreign  policy  and 
global  health  group  for  its  excellent  work  on  the  text. 
Singapore further welcomes the note by the Secretary-
General on global health and foreign policy (A/67/377), 
transmitting  the  report  of  the  Director-General  of  the 
World  Health  Organization  analysing  the  challenges 
States face in achieving universal health coverage. 
The  issue  of  universal  health  coverage  has  gained 
increasing traction with the international community in 
recent years. All countries — developed and developing 
alike  —  agree  that  universal  health  coverage  brings 
benefits to society and the economy. Within multilateral 
settings, the World Health Organization has been active 
in promoting universal health coverage. In that context, 
the submission of a draft resolution on moving towards 
universal health coverage at the sixty-seventh session is 
a timely endeavour. 
However,  the  path  to  achieving  universal  health 
coverage is complex and there is no universal formula. 
Instead,  Member  States  should  adopt  different 
solutions  tailored  to  their  own  unique  circumstances. 
Just as every sovereign State embarks on its own path 
of  development,  every  sovereign  State  should  craft  its 
own  approach  to  achieving  universal  health  coverage. 
In  that  context,  we  would  like  to  highlight  the  fact 
that  universal  health  coverage  needs  to  be  not  only 
accessible and effective, but also sustainable. 
To  be  successful,  such  health  coverage  needs  to 
satisfy  the  following  criteria.  First,  the  coverage  it 
provides should be universal, ensuring that the sick and 
poor are not denied good-quality health care because of 
their inability to pay. Secondly, it must be affordable for 
both present and future generations. Thirdly, it should 
encourage  doctors  and  patients  to  choose  health  care 
that is effective and appropriate to their needs. 
In  Singapore’s  case,  we  have  tried  over  the 
years  to  progressively  put  in  place  a  sustainable 
health  financing  system.  We  are  acutely  aware  of  the 
dangers  of  borrowing  against  our  children’s  future  to 
finance our present needs. In that regard, in the 1980s 
Singapore introduced medical savings accounts, known 
as Medisave, not to replace but to ensure the long-term 
sustainability  of  universally  available  Government 
subsidies in our public hospitals. With a rapidly ageing 
society, we have anticipated that our future generations 
will  face  an  increasingly  heavy  burden  in  financing 
such universal health coverage. In setting up Medisave, 
we ensure that those who can afford to do so set aside 
sufficient resources for themselves, freeing up subsidies 
to those who most need it. 
financing  system 
Singapore’s  health 
is  also 
designed  to  encourage  patients  and  doctors  to  make 
the  appropriate  treatment  choices,  with  supply-side 
cost  containment  and  demand-side  cost  sharing  in  the 
form of user fees and patient co-payments. Government 
subsidies for public hospitals are given out on the basis 
of diagnosis-related groups rather than a fee-for-service 
model.  That  has  reduced  overservicing  and  increased 
hospital  efficiency.  Our  national  health  insurance 
scheme, MediShield, is designed to include deductibles 
and  co-payments.  Such  patient  cost-sharing  features 
instil a sense of individual responsibility when making 
health  care  decisions  and  prevent  f lagrant  abuse.  The 
Singapore Government has also worked to ensure that 
co-payments  are  not  overly  onerous  in  order  to  avoid 
creating a financial burden on the patient and his family. 
By  and  large,  Singapore  has  achieved  reasonably 
good outcomes on providing universal health coverage 
to  our  citizens  while  ensuring  a  sustainable  financing 
system. Nevertheless, our system is not perfect and will 
continue to evolve as our health-care needs change over 
time. 
I  offer 
the  aforementioned  examples  not 
to 
highlight Singapore’s modest achievements but to point 
to the challenges of achieving sustainable and effective 
10 
12-64420
universal health coverage. More importantly, I wish to 
illustrate  the  broader  point  that  each  country  needs  to 
design its own path to achieving that goal. There is no 
one-size-fits-all health-care financing system, whether 
it  be  tax-financed,  based  on  social  insurance  or  a 
medical-savings funded model. There are strengths and 
weaknesses in each system. What is critical is that we 
be able to objectively judge each system on its merits, 
adopt features that work, and refine them to respond to 
the evolving environment.
Ms.  Kasese-Bota  (Zambia):  I  am  grateful  for  this 
opportunity to speak on the important subject of global 
health  and  foreign  policy,  moving  towards  universal 
health coverage.
Zambia  notes  with  appreciation  the  outcomes  of 
the  major  United  Nations  conferences  and  summits 
that  have  helped  to  advance  the  global  health  agenda. 
They  include,  among  others,  the  outcome  document 
of  the  United  Nations  Conference  on  Sustainable 
Development, entitled “The future we want” (resolution 
66/288,  annex);  the  Political  Declaration  of  the  High-
level  Meeting  on  the  Prevention  and  Control  of 
Non-Communicable Diseases, adopted on 19 September 
2011  (resolution  66/2);  the  Political  Declaration  on 
HIV/AIDS: Intensifying Our Efforts to Eliminate HIV/
AIDS,  adopted  on  10  June  2011  (resolution  65/277); 
the Rio Declaration of the World Conference on Social 
Determinants of Health held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, in 
October 2011, as well as the World Health Report of the 
World  Health  Organization  and  the  recommendations 
it  contains  on  improving  the  coordination,  coherence 
and  effectiveness  of  governance  for  global  health  and 
addressing  the  interlinkages  between  health  and  the 
environment  and  health  and  natural  disasters.  Zambia 
is  also  cognizant  of  the  World  Health  Assembly 
resolutions WHA58.33 and WHA64.9, on “Sustainable 
health  financing  universal  coverage  and  social  health 
insurance” and “Sustainable health financing structures 
and universal coverage”, respectively.
Zambia  is  aware  of  its  primary  responsibility  for 
ensuring  the  health  of  its  people;  hence  its  vision  of  a 
nation of healthy and productive people. To that end, the 
Government  of  Zambia  promotes  the  implementation 
of policies and programmes that aim to provide equity 
of  access  to  quality  and  cost-effective  health  services 
as  close  to  the  family  as  possible.  However,  attaining 
completely universal access to quality health care still 
remains a big challenge.
A/67/PV.53
Zambia’s  health-care  financing  policy  treats  basic 
health care as a fundamental human right of its citizens. 
The  policy  assumes  the  ideal  existence  of  a  well-
defined  and  systematically  implemented  basic  health-
care package, although that is far from being realized. 
To ensure sustainable financing of the health sector, the 
Government has steadily been increasing the budgetary 
allocation  from  domestic  resources  to  health  services. 
Public-private  partnerships  are  integral  to  Zambia’s 
health  care  financing  strategy  and  help  to  maximize 
domestic  resources  for  health  services.  However, 
external financing remains an equally important factor 
in our resource mobilization.
Universal health coverage is not just about Member 
States’  capacity  to  enrol  the  entire  citizenry  in  health 
care  programmes;  it  involves  both  quantitative  and 
qualitative  services,  universally  provided,  when  and 
where  required.  It  therefore  demands  investment  in 
infrastructure development and capacity-building at all 
levels of service provision.
improving 
recommends 
The  World  Health  Organization’s  World  Health 
Report
the  coordination, 
coherence  and  effectiveness  of  governance  for  global 
health, as well as addressing the interlinkages between 
health  and  the  environment  and  health  and  natural 
disasters. Its recommendations call for multidisciplinary 
coherence and a re-examination of health care as more 
than a social issue, an entity that does not just cut across 
the three pillars of sustainable development but that is 
the fundamental basis of sustainable development.
tackling 
Foreign  financing  for  universal  health  coverage 
should  encourage  a  holistic,  comprehensive  and 
integrated  approach  to  the  management  of  illnesses, 
including 
the  environmental  and  social 
causes  of  ill  health  as  well  as  managing  the  diseases 
of  longevity.  Foreign  financing  mechanisms  that  spell 
out  stovepiped  conditions  of  disease  specificity  have 
resulted  in  the  rigid  compartmentalization  of  the 
human  body  by  health  personnel,  despite  the  fact  that 
people are whole and interconnected organisms. Global 
health-care  financing  should  strive  to  work  within 
host countries’ existing structures in order to improve 
efficiency  and  reduce  overhead  costs  and  duplication 
of efforts.
Zambia  has  made  great  strides  towards  achieving 
the  health-related  Millennium  Development  Goals 
(MDGs), although it is not likely to meet two of the three 
targets.  Zambia  hopes  that  the  post-2015  development 
12-64420
11
A/67/PV.53
agenda  will  utilize  both  the  weaknesses  and  the 
successes of the MDGs to inform its trajectory, as well 
as to maintain and sustain the momentum gained in the 
race to the 2015 MDG targets. Zambia remains grateful 
to  global  partners  who  continue  to  support  our  health 
sector.
Mrs.  Davidovich  (Israel):  At  the  outset,  I  would 
like  to  express  Israel’s  appreciation  to  the  Secretary-
General  for  transmitting  the  important  report  of  the 
Director-General  of  the  World  Health  Organization 
on  global  health  and  foreign  policy  (A/67/377).  The 
links  between  health,  prosperity,  environmental 
sustainability  and  security  are  well  established. 
Healthy  people  are  more  likely  to  seek  higher  levels 
of  education,  to  be  financially  independent  and  to 
contribute positively to the societies in which they live. 
Promoting  global  health  undeniably  helps  to  reduce 
poverty and inequality, advance economic progress and 
growth and lay a foundation for increased stability and 
security.
Those issues are at the very core the mission of the 
United Nations. When it comes to the health challenges 
we  face,  cooperation  is  key.  In  our  globalized  world, 
health issues that were once confined to a single region 
have  the  potential  to  threaten  millions  of  citizens 
everywhere. Many of the greatest health issues we face 
today are global in scope and call for global responses.
Draft  resolution  A/67/L.36,  which  we  shall  adopt 
later  today,  focuses  specifically  on  the  importance 
of  universal  health  coverage.  At  the  United  Nations 
Conference  on  Sustainable  Development  earlier 
this  year,  world  leaders  recognized  the  importance 
of  universal  health  coverage  for  enhancing  health, 
social  cohesion  and  sustainable  human  and  economic 
development.  They  pledged 
to  strengthen  health 
systems  towards  the  provision  of  equitable  universal 
health coverage. The ultimate goal for universal health 
coverage is enabling everyone to obtain the high-quality 
health services they need without the risk of suffering 
severe  financial  hardship  when  using  them.  Universal 
health  coverage  helps  to  break  the  vicious  cycle  in 
which  lack  of  access  to  health  services  impoverishes 
people when poor health renders them unable to work, 
while  health  services  can  impoverish  them  because  of 
their costs.
states that a community must provide basic health care 
through a communal fund aimed at caring for the sick. 
When  the  State  of  Israel  was  established  in  1948,  a 
significant  national  health  infrastructure  was  already 
in  place.  We  have  given  high  priority  to  developing 
innovative and effective solutions to meet the range of 
health challenges facing our diverse population. In fact, 
Israel was a pioneer in the practice of universal health 
care, and our system has been used as a model for many 
other countries.
In  1995,  the  National  Health  Insurance  Law  went 
into effect. The law Sets forth the State’s responsibility 
to provide health services for all residents of the country, 
not  only  its  citizens.  It  stipulates  that  a  standardized 
basket  of  medical  services,  including  hospitalization, 
will  be  supplied  to  all,  whether  they  live  in  urban 
centres  or  outside  them.  Israel’s  national  health-care 
system  takes  into  account  the  two  important  and 
interrelated  components  of  universal  health  coverage: 
coverage  for  everyone  who  needs  health  services, 
including  prevention,  promotion, 
treatment  and 
rehabilitation,  and  protection  from  financial  risk.  Our 
system  is  holistic  and  comprehensive,  and  uses  online 
tools  to  ensure  greater  and  more  frequent  access  to 
health services and to help patients manage their health 
more effectively.
Promoting  good  health  is  also  one  of  the  key 
priorities that guide us in our international development 
work.  For  decades,  Israel  has  provided  its  expertise, 
technology, medicine and training in the field of health 
care,  to  developing  countries.  That  important  work 
is  carried  out  by  MASHAV  —  Israel’s  agency  for 
development  cooperation  —  in  partnership  with  the 
Ministry of Health, civil society and the private sector.
Allow me to provide a few recent examples of that 
work.  In  July,  a  cooperation  agreement  was  signed 
between  the  Vinnytsia  City  Council  in  Ukraine  and 
MASHAV,  aimed  at  improving  local  medical  and 
health  care  services.  Within  the  framework  of  the 
agreement, MASHAV established a modern diagnostic 
centre, which included the renovation of infrastructure 
and  installation  of  medical  equipment,  including  CT 
scanners  and  radiological  and  ultrasound  facilities. 
MASHAV  also  provided  professional  training  for  the 
operation and maintenance of the new centre.
The duty to heal the sick is a deep moral imperative 
in  the  Jewish  tradition.  In  fact,  our  greatest  rabbi, 
Maimonides,  was  himself  a  medical  doctor.  The 
Talmud,  a  collection  of  Jewish  law  and  principles, 
Israel is closely engaged in reducing child mortality 
and  maternal  health  around  the  world.  Just  over  one 
year ago, MASHAV sent an obstetrics and gynaecology 
expert,  Dr.  Hanna  Shapira,  with  a  medical  crew  to 
12 
12-64420
A/67/PV.53
Vanuatu, in response to the high stillbirth and maternal 
mortality rates facing the small island nation. Although 
the  team’s  mission  concluded  after  four  months,  Dr. 
Shapira  continues  her  work  to  this  day,  roaming 
between the islands by light plane and small motorboat, 
armed  with  a  portable,  battery-operated  ultrasound 
machine. Given that the machine is often the only one 
available  in  certain  areas,  it  is  also  used  to  diagnose 
problems in men.
Albania,  Argentina,  Austria,  the  Bahamas,  Barbados, 
Chile,  China,  Colombia,  the  Congo,  Costa  Rica,  Côte 
d’Ivoire,  El  Salvador,  Georgia,  Guatemala,  Haiti, 
Jamaica,  Lesotho,  Madagascar,  Maldives,  Mali, 
Mauritania, Montenegro, Myanmar, Nigeria, Peru, the 
Philippines,  the  Republic  of  Moldova,  San  Marino, 
Serbia,  Suriname,  the  former  Yugoslav  Republic  of 
Macedonia, Togo, Tunisia, Turkey, the United Republic 
of Tanzania, Uruguay and Zambia.
For  more  than  50  years,  Israel  has  sponsored 
eye  clinics  in  countries  where  health  facilities  are 
inadequate.  Israeli  eye  doctors  travel  throughout  the 
developing  world  to  treat  people  who  suffer  from 
blindness  and  poor  eyesight  resulting  from  cataracts, 
malnutrition, trauma and infection. These clinics have 
been  set  up  around  the  world  —  in  Liberia,  Kenya, 
Malawi,  Mauritania,  Mozambique,  Namibia,  Georgia, 
Sri  Lanka,  Viet  Nam,  Uzbekistan  and  many  other 
countries. This past summer, MASHAV, in cooperation 
with  the  non-governmental  organization  Eye  from 
Zion,  organized  an  eye  camp  in  Bamenda,  located  in 
north-western  Cameroon.  During  the  mission,  the 
Israeli  medical  team  conducted  sight-restoring  and 
oculoplastic surgery.
As a proud sponsor of the important draft resolution 
before us, Israel will continue to play an active role in 
the  debate  on  the  intersection  between  global  health 
and  foreign  policy.  Against  the  backdrop  of  growing 
risks  and  emerging  challenges,  increased  cooperation, 
investment  and  action  are  needed  to  achieve  better 
health outcomes for all people. We must put people and 
their health at the centre of global policies. Together, let 
us pledge to improve the health of every family, every 
community  and  every  nation —  laying  the  foundation 
for a more secure, more prosperous and more peaceful 
planet.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on agenda item 123. 
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on  draft 
resolution A/67/L.36. 
I  give  the  f loor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Zhang  Saijin  (Department  for  General 
Assembly  and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
like  to  announce  that,  since  the  submission  of  the 
draft  resolution  and  in  addition  to  those  delegations 
listed  in  the  document,  the  following  countries  have 
resolution  A/67/L.36: 
become  sponsors  of  draft 
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/67/L.36?
Draft 
(resolution 67/81).
resolution  A/67/L.36  was 
adopted 
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda item 123?
It was so decided.
Agenda item 127
Addressing the socioeconomic needs of individuals, 
families and societies affected by autism spectrum 
disorders and other developmental disorders
Draft resolution (A/67/L.33)
The  Acting  President:  I  now  give  the  f loor  to 
the  representative  of  Bangladesh  to  introduce  draft 
resolution A/67/L.33. 
Mr.  Islam  (Bangladesh):  I  have  the  honour  to 
introduce  an  important  and  topical  draft  resolution 
on  autism  and  disability.  The  negotiated  title  of  the 
draft  resolution,  contained  in  document  A/67/L.33,  is 
“Addressing  the  socioeconomic  needs  of  individuals, 
families  and  societies  affected  by  autism  spectrum 
disorders  (ASD),  developmental  disorders  (DD)  and 
associated disabilities”.  
Before  I  introduce  the  draft  resolution,  I  would 
like  to  mention  the  names  of  the  Member  States  that 
were  on  the  list  of  sponsors  as  of  yesterday.  They  are 
Afghanistan,  Albania,  Algeria,  Angola,  Argentina, 
Azerbaijan,  the  Bahamas,  Bahrain,  Belarus,  Benin, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Brazil,  Bulgaria,  Burundi, 
the Central African Republic, Chile, China, Costa Rica, 
Cyprus,  the  Dominican  Republic,  Ecuador,  Eritrea, 
Georgia, Guyana, Haiti, Honduras, India, Indonesia, the 
Islamic  Republic  of  Iran,  Israel,  Jordan,  Kazakhstan, 
Kenya,  Madagascar,  Malaysia,  Maldives,  Nepal, 
Nigeria,  Panama,  Peru,  the  Philippines,  the  Republic 
12-64420
13
A/67/PV.53
of Korea, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Saudi Arabia, Serbia, 
Sri  Lanka,  Suriname,  Tajikistan,  the  former  Yugoslav 
Republic  of  Macedonia,  Timor-Leste,  Trinidad  and 
Tobago, Turkey, Ukraine and Uganda.
I  understand  that  quite  a  number  of  Member 
States are ready to join the list of sponsors of the draft 
resolution  today.  I  hope  that  they  will,  and  request 
them  to  manifest  their  desire  to  do  so  by  signing  the 
sponsorship form with the Secretariat.
The  text  we  agreed  during  negotiations  includes 
some  editorial  and  technical  amendments  made  by 
the  Secretariat  to  the  final  version.  For  the  sake  of 
information and transparency, I would like to mention 
those corrections. 
In  the  fifth  preambular  paragraph,  the  word  “the” 
has  been  inserted  before  the  phrase  “human  rights  of 
all  persons  with  disabilities”.  The  first  lines  of  the 
fourteenth preambular paragraph now read, “Recalling 
that early diagnosis, appropriate research and effective 
interventions are vital”. In the seventeenth preambular 
paragraph, the word “passed” has been replaced by the 
words  “adopted  by  the  sixty-fifth”.  In  the  nineteenth 
preambular paragraph, “international public concerns” 
has been replaced by “international public concern”. 
We  have  agreed  to  use  the  phrase  “ASD,  DD 
and  associated  disabilities”  throughout  the  text  for 
consistency.  However,  if  States  give  their  approval  to 
the  English  text,  that  might  be  problematic  for  other 
languages,  especially  the  non-Roman  alphabetic  ones. 
So the technical and secretarial staffs are advised that 
the  whole  aggregate  phase,  that  is,  “autism  spectrum 
disorders  (ASD),  developmental  disorders  (DD)  and 
associated disabilities” may be used in other languages 
in such circumstances.
The finally agreed draft of the resolution contains 
20  preambular  paragraphs  and  seven  operative 
paragraphs.  In 
the  preambular  section,  Member 
States  express  their  concern  that  persons  with  autism 
spectrum  disorders,  developmental  disabilities  and 
associated disabilities continue to face barriers in their 
participation as equal members of society and reaffirm 
that  discrimination  against  any  person  on  the  basis  of 
disability is a violation of the inherent dignity and worth 
of  the  human  person.  The  Assembly  also  recalls  that 
early  diagnosis  and  appropriate  research  and  effective 
interventions  are  vital  to  the  growth  and  development 
of the individual, emphasizing that early intervention is 
crucial for addressing the needs of the individual with 
autism  spectrum  disorders,  developmental  disabilities 
and  associated  disabilities, 
the 
opportunities  to  lead  a  quality  life  with  the  ability  to 
participate in the greater community and the increasing 
likelihood that the individual will need lower levels of 
support later in life.
increasing 
thus 
In  another  preambular  paragraph,  the  General 
Assembly  realizes  that  the  challenges  of  meeting  the 
needs  of  individuals  with  autism  spectrum  disorders, 
developmental  disorders  and  associated  disabilities  is 
particularly  acute  in  the  developing  world,  resulting 
in  increased  difficulties  for  individuals  and  their 
families,  as  well  as  for  the  health,  education  and 
social  welfare  systems  trying  to  meet  their  needs. 
In  that  vein,  the  Assembly  recognizes  that  the  full 
enjoyment by persons with autism spectrum disorders, 
developmental  disorders  and  associated  disabilities 
of  their  human  rights  and  their  full  participation  will 
result in significant advances in the social and economic 
development of societies and communities as a whole. 
With  that  aim  in  mind,  the  General  Assembly 
recognizes in paragraph 2 that, in order to develop and 
implement feasible, effective and sustainable intervention 
programmes for addressing autism spectrum disorders, 
developmental disorders and associated disabilities, an 
innovative,  integrated  approach  would  benefit  from  a 
focus, inter alia, on increasing public and professional 
awareness of autism spectrum disorders, developmental 
disabilities and associated disabilities and reducing  the 
stigma  associated  with  these  conditions;  enhancing 
and increasing research expertise and service delivery, 
including 
international  collaboration,  by 
training  researchers,  service  providers  as  well  as 
non-professionals  in  early  diagnosis  and  interventions 
within  health  and  other  relevant  sectors;  enhancing 
inclusive  educational  programmes  suited  to  infants, 
children  and  adults  with  autism;  emphasizing  the 
unique  needs  of  each  person  with  autism  across  a 
spectrum  of  different  characteristics  and  experiences; 
and  increasing  awareness  of  the  advantages  of  the 
inclusion of individuals with autism spectrum disorders, 
developmental disabilities and associated disabilities in 
the society through occupational and leisure activities.
through 
Finally, 
the  General  Assembly 
the 
Secretary-General to bring the present draft resolution 
to the attention of all Members States and United Nations 
organizations  as a contribution to the preparations for 
the  high-level  meeting  of  the  General  Assembly  on 
the  realization  of  the  Millennium  Development  Goals 
requests 
14 
12-64420
A/67/PV.53
and other internationally agreed development goals for 
persons with disabilities in September 2013.
us  to  better  understand  who  is  affected  by  autism  and 
what the risk factors are, and to promote early detection.
With that hope and aspiration, we sincerely believe 
that  the  draft  resolution  will  stand  out  in  the  high-
level event on disabilities next year, and its provisions 
will  receive  due  recognition  towards  its  successful 
implementation. In that venture, we need everybody to 
join  in  support  of  the  draft  resolution.  By  sponsoring 
the draft resolution, they will manifest their ownership 
of that holy gesture. We humbly appeal for an increased 
number of sponsors. 
I  conclude  by  offering  my  sincere 
thanks 
and  gratitude  to  all  Member  States  for  agreeing 
overwhelmingly  and  consensually  to  the  adoption  of 
the draft resolution today.
Ms.  Prince  (United  States  of  America):  It  is  an 
honour  to  be  here  today  to  speak  about  addressing 
the  socioeconomic  needs  of  individuals,  families  and 
societies  affected  by  autism  and  other  developmental 
disabilities. 
Today,  there  is  more  support  for  Americans  with 
autism  than  ever  before.  Autism  is  no  longer  hidden. 
As recently as the 1990s, scientists believed that autism 
was rare, affecting only 1 in every 2,000 children. As 
we all know now, the truth is very different. Now that 
we  can  begin  to  see  the  extent  of  the  issues,  we  can 
focus our efforts.
In  the  United  States,  a  big  step  to  support  those 
affected  by  autism  and  their  families  came  with  the 
Affordable  Care  Act  in  March  2010,  which  requires 
new  insurance  plans  to  cover  autism  screening  and 
developmental  assessments  for  children  at  no  cost  to 
their parents. Insurers in the United States are no longer 
allowed  to  deny  children  coverage  for  pre-existing 
conditions  like  autism  or  to  set  arbitrary  lifetime  or 
annual  limits  on  benefits.  That  new  law  and  other 
legislative  protections  allow  us  to  continue  important 
research and to develop and refine vital treatments.
Through the innovative programmes of the United 
States Government, my country is working to address 
key questions and provide quality support and services 
to  all  families  affected  by  autism.  The  Centers  for 
Medicare & Medicaid Services are working with states 
to  shape  their  Medicaid  programmes  to  help  children 
and  adults  with  autism  get  the  home  care  assistance 
they need to take control of their own lives and thrive. 
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention closely 
track autism in communities across the nation, allowing 
While  there  is  a  great  deal  going  on  in  the 
United  States,  we  have  also  established  international 
collaborations  with  many  countries  across  the  world. 
Puzzles can often best be solved by partnerships, and so 
it will be with autism and deepening the understanding 
of what puts our children at risk.
The United States is pleased to be able to join the 
consensus  on  draft  resolution  A/67/L.33,  now  before 
us for adoption. In supporting the draft resolution, we 
bear in mind that autism is one of many different kinds 
of disabilities, and while we credit the sponsors’ good 
intentions  for  highlighting  the  needs  of  individuals, 
families and societies affected by autism, we note that 
a  number  of  the  issues  raised  here  are  also  applicable 
to many people with a variety of different disabilities. 
Issues  of  stigma,  discrimination  and  exclusion  are  all 
too common an experience for people, regardless of the 
nature of their specific disabilities. 
It  is  for  that  reason  that  the  Convention  on  the 
Rights  of  Persons  with  Disabilities  addresses  such 
issues  in  an  inclusive  and  cross-disability  manner. 
We  are  concerned  that  resolutions  focused  on  only 
one  specific  disability  may  lead  to  such  targeted 
responses  that  opportunities  are  missed  to  develop 
comprehensive,  systemic  solutions  that  could  benefit 
broader  populations.  Rather,  our  preference  remains 
to  adopt  disability-themed  resolutions  on  issues  of 
relevance  to  the  entire  disability  community,  and 
to  be  inclusive  of  persons  with  disabilities  in  other 
resolutions, as appropriate.
It  is  also  extraordinarily  important,  in  this  as  in 
all  resolutions,  to  be  fully  mindful  of  the  language 
used  in  order  to  ensure  that  it  is  respectful  of  those 
individuals who are the focus of the text. We understand 
that  certain  terminology  may  be  commonly  used  in 
medical  and  health-focused  forums.  However,  in  light 
of  the  paradigm  shift  catalysed  by  the  Convention 
on  the  Rights  of  Persons  with  Disabilities,  we  call 
upon  delegations  to  ensure  that  we  utilize  language 
that  embodies  a  human-rights-focused  approach  to 
disability.  In  addition,  we  believe  it  important  to 
note  that  there  are  many  individuals  with  autism  who 
proudly  self-identify  as  autistic  and  we  recognize  the 
important contributions that they make to society, while 
recommitting  ourselves  to  combating  societal  barriers 
that  hinder  their  full  enjoyment  of  human  rights  and 
inclusion in society.
12-64420
15
A/67/PV.53
As President Obama said last year on World Autism 
Awareness Day, 
to 
the 
“let  us  recommit 
lives  of 
individuals  and  families  impacted  by  ASDs  and 
creating a world free from discrimination where all 
can achieve their fullest potential.”
improving 
the 
“Addressing 
Mr.  Al-Mouallimi  (Saudi  Arabia):  We  support 
the unanimous adoption of draft resolution A/67/L.33, 
entitled 
socioeconomic  needs 
of  individuals,  families  and  societies  affected  by 
autism  spectrum  disorders  (ASD),  developmental 
disorders  (DD)  and  associated  disabilities”.  Saudi 
Arabia is proudly associated with this draft resolution 
as a sponsor. We would like to thank Bangladesh for its 
valuable efforts, which have resulted in the anticipated 
unanimous adoption of this initiative. We are confident 
that  the  draft  resolution,  when  adopted,  will  be  an 
important  milestone  on  the  path  towards  raising 
awareness and helping take further steps to address the 
numerous socioeconomic problems faced by individuals 
suffering from autism and developmental disorders. 
The  international  community  has  a  collective 
responsibility  to  address  this  important  issue.  The 
recognition  by  the  General  Assembly  of  2  April  as 
World  Autism  Awareness  Day,  the  High-level  Special 
Event on Autism and Disabilities held on 19 November, 
as  well  as  the  anticipated  adoption  of  today’s  draft 
resolution  ref lect  our  increasing  focus  on  this  issue. 
We  express  hope  that  autism  and  other  developmental 
disorders will continue to receive our due attention and 
consideration as we prepare for the high-level meeting 
on disability and development in 2013.
The  number  of  people  diagnosed  with  autism 
has  increased  dramatically  over  the  years,  with  an 
estimated  1  in  every  88  children  diagnosed  with  this 
disability.  This  is  a  particularly  acute  problem  in 
developing countries that have neither the resources nor 
the expertise to deal with a problem of this magnitude. 
That  is  why  we  have  given  specific  reference  and 
attention to autism in the draft resolution before us. 
Such  individuals  and  their  families  continue  to 
suffer  a  sense  of  isolation  from  society  due  to  a  lack 
of  awareness  and  a  lack  of  opportunities  to  integrate 
into  mainstream 
suffering 
from  these  disorders  need  societal  understanding 
and  governmental  support  throughout  their  lives. 
Individuals  with  disabilities  have  an  equal  right  to 
Individuals 
society. 
enjoy  a  full  and  decent  life  in  conditions  that  ensure 
their dignity and their integration into society.
As  the  draft  resolution  about  to  be  adopted 
rightly  emphasizes,  those  suffering  from  autism  and 
developmental disorders need dedicated and professional 
support  services  and  robust  public  and  professional 
awareness  programmes  aimed  at  the  integration  of 
these  individuals  into  society  and  at  an  inclusive  and 
life-long  learning  process,  with  a  particular  emphasis 
on imparting life and social developmental skills and on 
taking advantage of the special abilities that those who 
are  affected  by  autism  often  are  able  to  demonstrate. 
That will require a coherent framework for international 
cooperation,  awareness-raising  programmes  and  the 
provision of adequate funding.
In  the  Arab  world,  autism  is  a  growing  concern. 
The  situation  has  been  augmented  by  the  limited 
number of specialists and experts available to deal with 
such  disorders,  as  well  by  a  lack  of  adequate  funding 
for  programmes  to  deal  with  the  issue.  Saudi  Arabia 
is  actively  engaged  in  the  fight  against  autism  and  its 
socioeconomic  repercussions.  Several  initiatives  have 
been  taken  by  the  Kingdom  in  recent  years  in  that 
regard, including the formation of a charitable society 
for individuals with autism spectrum disorders, as well 
as the establishment in 2010 of the first Saudi assembly 
to  address  the  needs  of  such  individuals  and  their 
families.  Recent  legislation  also  recognizes  the  rights 
of the victims of autism and their families to life-long 
support.  Numerous  specialized  centres  for  care  and 
development  have  been  established  throughout  the 
Kingdom. We will continue to support all international 
efforts  aimed  at  addressing  and  highlighting  this 
important issue in all forums.
(Israel): 
today’s  draft 
Mrs.  Furman 
Israel  welcomes 
the 
resolution 
imminent  adoption  of 
A/67/L.33.  We  are  a  sponsor  of  the  draft  resolution 
because  Israel  is  committed  to  raising  awareness 
about  autism  and  to  addressing  the  challenges  faced 
by  autistic  individuals  and  their  families.  The  draft 
resolution ref lects our deep commitment to advancing 
the  rights  of  these  individuals.  The  draft  resolution 
appropriately recognizes the leading role played by the 
World  Health  Organization  in  this  regard.  Israel  will 
participate in the debate both here in New York and at 
the World Health Organization in Geneva.
Five  years  ago,  Israel  supported  the  adoption  of 
resolution  62/139,  which  designated  2  April  as  World 
16 
12-64420
Autism  Awareness  Day.  Our  Mission  has  organized 
side events at the United Nations to mark this day every 
year.  We  have  hosted  film  screenings,  lectures  and 
interactive dialogues. 
There  is  a  clear  need  to  raise  awareness  about 
disabilities,  particularly  disabilities 
that  are  not 
immediately  visible.  Since  autism  is  invisible  to  the 
naked eye, it is often misunderstood or misdiagnosed. 
Countries must educate their people about autism. They 
must  provide  resources  for  developmentally  disabled 
children and adults so that they can fully participate in 
society. All individuals deserve a life that is dignified, 
regardless of who they are or where they live.
Israel  recognizes  the  importance  of  providing 
resources for autistic children and their families. Israel’s 
national  insurance  provides  grants  and  subsidies  to 
children with autism so that families can cope with the 
additional  costs  of  raising  an  autistic  child.  Autistic 
children  within  the  Israeli  educational  system  receive 
free education from the age of 3 until they are 21. They 
also  enjoy  a  longer  school  year  and  attend  school  six 
days  per  week.  This  provides  a  more  constructive 
learning environment and eases the burden felt by their 
families.
Israel’s  vibrant  civil  society  has  played  a  major 
role in advancing these initiatives. The Israel National 
Autism  Association  (ALUT)  has 
launched  many 
effective  public  awareness  campaigns  and  advocated 
extensively  for  innovative  public  policies  on  autism. 
Along  with  other  non-governmental  organizations, 
ALUT  has  implemented  effective  and  individualized 
educational  programmes  for  autistic  children.  It 
has  allowed  thousands  of  autistic  individuals  to  be 
integrated fully into society.
As  we  speak,  parents  of  autistic  children  in  Israel 
are  launching  a  campaign  to  enact  an  integrative 
autism law that will provide Government assistance to 
autistic  individuals  in  all  aspects  of  their  lives,  from 
infancy to old age. Israel is working on this issue at the 
international level as well. In August, an international 
conference was hosted in Jerusalem, bringing together 
policymakers  and  scientists  from  around  the  world 
to  discuss  the  latest  autism  research.  These  kinds 
of  collaborations  are  critical  to  addressing  autism 
effectively.
Autism awareness is a global issue. It affects people 
in  countries  around  the  globe,  regardless  of  gender, 
race  or  socioeconomic  status.  Many  autistic  children 
A/67/PV.53
continue  to  go  undiagnosed  and  face  tremendous 
stigmatization in their societies. The United Nations has 
a vital role to play, not only in New York, but around the 
world. We must work to ensure that autistic individuals 
across  the  globe  have  an  opportunity  to  achieve  their 
full potential.
Mr.  Momen 
(Bangladesh):  The  Bangladesh 
Chairperson  of  the  National  Advisory  Committee  on 
Autism,  Ms.  Saima  Wazed  Hossain,  was  supposed  to 
be here this morning. Unfortunately, she is not yet here, 
and therefore, with due permission, I have the privilege 
to take the f loor. 
I  would  like  to  begin  by  sharing  the  following 
names,  which 
everyone  here  knows:  Mozart, 
Beethoven,  Albert  Einstein,  Bob  Dylan,  Bill  Gates 
and  Stephen  Hawking.  All  of  these  icons  and  many 
more  were,  in  their  childhood,  neglected  or  dubbed 
“prodigal” children by their parents because they were 
on  the  autism/Asperger’s  spectrum.  However,  all  of 
them  achieved  great  success  in  their  life.  Their  minds 
worked  differently  than  those  of  traditional  learners. 
As  they  found  their  place  in  the  world,  they  engaged 
their  strengths  and  really  enriched  all  of  us  and  this 
world. That is why we are here today. We have a whole 
population  whose  talents  go  undiscovered  and  whose 
gifts  go  unshared.  Their  place  in  the  world  has  been 
carved out only in niches.
Today,  in  the  United  States  alone,  autism  is 
diagnosed  in  1  out  of  every  88  children.  In  a  recent 
study in South Korea, the rate of occurrence was found 
to be 2.6 per cent in school-age children. It is true that 
we now have a better understanding of the disorder, our 
screening  and  diagnostic  tools  and  protocols  are  more 
sensitive and standardized, and more professionals are 
able to diagnose it.
However,  since  the  disorder  was  first  described 
in the early 1940s by Leo Kanner and Hans Asperger, 
the  combinations  of  symptoms  have  largely  remained 
the  same.  It  is  still  a  condition  characterized  by  core 
impairments  of  social  communication,  an  inability  or 
loss  in  language  development,  motor  skills  deficits, 
hypersensitivity  to  sensory  stimulation,  stereotypical 
and/or  repetitive  mannerisms,  and  restricted  interests. 
What  could  be  the  reason  for  this  developmental 
disorder?  We  still  do  not  know  for  sure,  although, 
through  research,  we  are  identifying  an  increasing 
number of genetic and environmental risk factors. Since 
it is a neglected area, research funding is still very low.
12-64420
17
A/67/PV.53
However,  what  we  do  know  is  that,  every  15 
minutes,  a  person  is  diagnosed  with  autism  and  every 
year  more  children  are  diagnosed  with  an  autism 
spectrum  condition  than  with  AIDS,  diabetes  and 
cancer  combined.  The  most  effective  intervention  is 
early  detection  followed  by  intensive,  evidence-based 
behavioural  therapy.  The  challenge,  therefore,  is  to 
mitigate  the  health,  social  and  economic  impacts  of 
this global public health crisis around the world, and to 
alleviate  the  suffering  of  children,  adults  and  families 
living with autism by implementing these best practices 
in systematic, feasible and sustainable ways, especially 
in countries like Bangladesh, where resources are very 
limited.
It  is  also  a  fact  that  the  vast  variety  of  the  needs 
individuals  with  autism  spectrum  disorders, 
of 
developmental  disorders  and  associated  disabilities 
pose  a  substantial  challenge  in  terms  of  addressing 
the  disability  and  providing  the  appropriate  services 
for 
treatment  and  care  by  governmental  and 
non-governmental  organizations.  In  addition,  children 
with  autism 
spectrum  disorders,  developmental 
disorders  and  associated  disabilities  in  all  regions 
of  the  world  experience  challenges  in  accessing 
long-term  health  care,  education, 
training  and 
intervention programmes undertaken by Governments, 
non-governmental organizations and the private sector. 
It  goes  without  saying  that  persons  with  autism 
spectrum  disorders,  developmental  disorders  and 
associated  disabilities  continue  to  face  barriers  in 
their  participation  as  equal  members  of  society,  and 
discriminating  against  any  person  on  the  basis  of 
disability  is  a  violation  of  the  inherent  dignity  and 
worth of a human being.
That is why it is so important for all United Nations 
member countries to sponsor draft resolution A/67/L.33. 
We  need  to  continue  to  build  capacity  to  provide  care 
for  those  affected.  We  need  more  research  to  unearth 
the  cause  and  the  cure.  We  need  to  raise  awareness 
because  many  of  the  young  people  on  the  spectrum 
are  so  talented  and  so  gifted,  yet  much  of  the  world 
still  dismisses  them  simply  because  it  is  something 
that  many  of  us  do  not  understand.  There  is  a  whole 
population of such children with gifts that have yet to 
be shared with the world. Adopting the draft resolution 
will  be  a  critical  step  in  ensuring  that  our  children 
have  a  fair  and  equal  chance  of  leading  a  happy  and 
meaningful life. In this connection, I would once again 
thank  those  colleagues  who  have  already  sponsored 
the  draft  resolution  and  would  issue  a  humble  appeal 
to  others  to  rise  to  the  occasion  and  sponsor  the  draft 
resolution before its adoption.
Our efforts to address the needs of individuals and 
families  with  autism  in  Bangladesh  over  the  past  two 
to  three  years  have  made  us  realize  that,  in  order  to 
fully meet the needs of those with neurodevelopmental 
disorders  such  as  autism,  our  approach  has  to  be 
multifaceted,  comprehensive  and 
integrated  with 
other  community-based  programmes.  If  our  solutions 
are  to  be  effective  and  sustainable,  treatment  needs 
to  be  evidence-based,  culturally 
sensitive  and 
economically  feasible.  There  has  to  be  cross-sectoral 
and  interministerial  coordination  and  collaboration, 
so  that  early-detection  programmes  and  intervention 
services  can  be  incorporated  into  the  existing  health, 
educational  and  social  systems.  We  urgently  need  to 
remove the stigma that is associated with disabilities in 
general and neurodevelopmental disorders specifically, 
and  empower  parents  so  that  they  can  be  partners  in 
the treatment process and informed advocates for their 
loved ones. We have to invest in research and training 
for  clinical  professionals  and  other  professional  and 
para-professional  service  providers 
latest 
diagnostic and treatment tools. We also need to create 
new policies and procedures that ensure that those with 
autism spectrum disorders are no longer marginalized 
but  included  in  mainstream  society  throughout  their 
lives.
the 
in 
that 
partnerships 
Collaborative 
transcend 
geopolitical boundaries are no longer just an option, but 
a very real necessity. An increasingly globalized world 
certainly  presents  many  challenges,  but  it  also  offers 
us  unprecedented  opportunities  to  accelerate  progress 
and  speed  the  delivery  of  answers  to  our  community. 
Science  has  given  us  the  understanding  and  the  tools 
necessary to improve the outcome for these individuals 
and  their  families.  We  all  need  to  work  together  to 
lessen the stigma they face on a daily basis, develop new 
evidence-based solutions that are appropriate given the 
limitations  in  resources  and  cultural  differences,  and 
disseminate  and  implement  existing  best  practices  so 
that  all  of  our  children,  adolescents  and  adults  with 
autism  can  live  a  life  of  dignity  and  opportunity  in 
order to fulfil their true potential as happy, independent 
and productive members of society.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on agenda item 127.
18 
12-64420
The  Assembly  will  now  take  a  decision  on 
draft  resolution  A/67/L.33,  entitled  “Addressing  the 
socioeconomic  needs  of  individuals,  families  and 
societies  affected  by  autism  spectrum  disorders 
(ASD),  developmental  disorders  (DD)  and  associated 
disabilities”.
I  now  give  the  f loor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Mr.  Zhang  Saijin 
(Department  of  General 
Assembly and Conference Management): I would like to 
announce that, in addition to those delegations listed in 
draft resolution A/67/L.33, as well as those mentioned 
during  the  introduction  of  the  draft  resolution,  the 
following countries have become sponsors: Kyrgyzstan, 
Qatar, the United Arab Emirates and Uruguay. 
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly decides to adopt draft resolution A/67/L.33?
Draft resolution A/67/L.33 was adopted (resolution 
67/82).
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda item 127?
It was so decided. 
Agenda item 121 (continued)
Cooperation between the United Nations and 
regional and other organizations
(h) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the Council of Europe
Draft resolution (A/67/L.14/Rev.1)
The  Acting  President:  Members  will  recall  that 
the  Assembly  held  the  debate  on  agenda  item  121  and 
its sub-items (a) to (w) at its 40th plenary meeting, on 
19 November 2012.
I now give the f loor to the representative of Albania 
to introduce draft resolution A/67/L.14/Rev.1.
Mr. Hoxha (Albania): Based on the mandate given 
by the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe 
to  the  Albanian  chairmanship  of  the  Council  for  the 
period from May to November 2012, I have the honour 
to  introduce  draft  resolution  A/67/L.14/Rev  1,  entitled 
“Cooperation  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
Council of Europe”, on behalf of the 40 sponsors listed 
in the document and other countries that have joined as 
A/67/PV.53
sponsors  and  will  be  announced  by  the  representative 
of the Secretariat later.
Over the past 12 years, the resolutions adopted by 
the General Assembly on this matter have continuously 
ref lected  the  trend  of  increasingly  close  cooperation 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  Council  of 
Europe.  The  draft  text  presented  today  to  the  General 
Assembly,  enriched  with  several  new  paragraphs, 
recognizes  the  ever-increasing  role  of  the  Council  of 
Europe  in  the  protection  and  strengthening  of  human 
rights  and  fundamental  freedoms,  the  promotion  of 
democracy  and  the  upholding  and  strengthening  of 
the  rule  of  law  through  its  standards,  principles  and 
monitoring  mechanisms,  as  well  as  in  the  effective 
implementation  of 
instruments.  It  also 
reaffirms  the  commitments  and  aspirations  of  both 
organizations to further enhancing their cooperation in 
fields of common interest.
legal 
its 
In this regard, I would like to express my satisfaction 
regarding the consensus reached on language regarding 
international obligations of Member States, in particular, 
where applicable, those defined in the Rome Statute of 
the  International  Court  of  Justice.  We  consider  it  part 
of the maturity and increased affirmation of the role of 
this institution with regard to the application of rule of 
law and fight against impunity at both the national and 
the international levels.
The new draft ref lects the fact that the Council of 
Europe now has a wider outreach, far beyond its member 
States’ perimeters. Over the past years, through policies 
elaborated, adopted and implemented in its immediate 
neighbourhood,  the  Council  of  Europe  has  enhanced 
the  promotion  of  dialogue  and  cooperation  with  the 
countries  and  regions  in  the  vicinity  of  Europe  that 
request the Council’s assistance, based on the common 
values of human rights, democracy and the rule of law, 
as well as through its numerous legal instruments with 
a universal vocation.
I  should  also  mention  the  success  of  the  first 
World  Forum  for  Democracy,  which  was  convened 
in  Strasbourg,  France,  from  5  to  11  October,  with  the 
participation of more than 200 experts from around the 
globe and 1,500 participants representing 120 countries 
to  discuss  democracy.  The  Secretary-General  was  a 
keynote speaker at that event.
(spoke in French)
12-64420
19
A/67/PV.53
Despite  the  fact  that  the  text  has  been  clearly 
enriched with renewed language, we regret the absence 
of  appropriate  references  to  certain  important  issues, 
including  the  abolition  of  the  death  penalty.  This 
issue is of particular importance to all members of the 
Council of Europe. Indeed, it is an emblematic issue for 
the  Council.  Compromising  47  members,  the  Council 
of  Europe  represents  the  only  region  in  the  world  to 
have  abolished  the  death  penalty —  an  important  fact 
that  we  should  have  liked  to  have  seen  acknowledged 
in the text. 
Despite 
the  great 
in 
f lexibility  shown 
the 
consultations  on  this  question,  we  once  again  had  no 
choice but to sacrifice references to this issue in order 
to  arrive  at  an  agreed  text  that  would  be  adopted  by 
consensus.  The  Council  of  Europe  remains  fully 
committed to advancing the best values for protecting 
and  promoting  human  rights  and  remains  open  to 
continuing dialogue with States members of the General 
Assembly to further consolidate our common work. 
(spoke in English)
In  conclusion,  I  take  this  opportunity  to  thank  all 
members of the Council of Europe for their cooperation 
and  support  during  our  chairmanship  and  all  other 
delegations  that  were  actively  and  constructively 
engaged during the two-month process of consultations, 
enabling  us  today  to  have  a  text  that  we  hope  can  be 
adopted by consensus, as on previous, similar occasions.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of sub-item (h) of agenda item 121?
It was so decided.
(n) Cooperation between the United Nations and 
the League of Arab States
Draft resolution (A/67/L.35) 
The  Acting  President:  Members  will  recall 
that  the  Assembly  concluded  its  consideration  of 
sub-item  (n)  of  agenda  item  121  at  its  40th  plenary 
meeting  on  19  November.  In  order  for  the  Assembly 
to take action on draft resolution A/67/L.35, it will be 
necessary to reopen its consideration of sub-item (n) of 
agenda item 121.
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  General 
Assembly to reopen its consideration of sub-item (n) of 
agenda item 121?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  The  Assembly  will  now 
take  a  decision  on  draft  resolution  A/67/L.35.  May  I 
take it that the Assembly decides to adopt it?
Draft resolution A/67/L.35 was adopted (resolution 
67/11 B)
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of sub-item (n) of agenda item 121?
take a decision on draft resolution A/67/L.14/Rev.1.
It was so decided. 
I  now  give  the  f loor  to  the  representative  of  the 
Secretariat.
Programme of work
Mr.  Zhang  Saijin  (Department  for  General 
Assembly  and  Conference  Management):  I  should 
like  to  announce  that    since  the  submission  of  draft 
resolution  A/67/L.14/Rev.1,  and  in  addition  to  those 
delegations  listed  in  the  document,  the  following 
countries have become sponsors: Azerbaijan, Belgium, 
Bosnia  and  Herzegovina,  Mexico,  Portugal,  Romania, 
San Marino, Serbia and Slovenia.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly  decides  to  adopt  draft  resolution  A/67/L.14/
Rev.1?
The  Acting  President:  I  would  like  to  draw  the 
attention of members to the date of recess of the current 
session.  Members  will  recall  that,  at  its  2nd  plenary 
meeting,  on  21  September,  the  General  Assembly 
decided that the sixty-seventh session would recess on 
Tuesday,  18  December.  However,  in  view  of  the  work 
that remains to be completed in this part of the session, 
I would like to propose to the Assembly that it postpone 
the date of recess to Friday, 21 December. 
If  there  is  no  objection,  may  I  take  it  that  the 
Assembly  agrees  to  postpone  the  date  of  the  recess  to 
Friday, 21 December?
Draft  resolution  A/67/L.14/Rev.1  was  adopted 
(resolution 67/83).
It was so decided. 
20 
12-64420
A/67/PV.53
The  Acting  President:  I  would  also  like  to 
consult  members  regarding  an  extension  of  the  work 
of  the  Fifth  Committee.  Members  will  recall  that,  at 
its 2nd plenary meeting, on 21 September, the General 
Assembly approved the recommendation of the General 
Committee  that  the  Fifth  Committee  complete  its 
work  by  Friday,  14  December.  However,  I  have  been 
informed  by  the  Chair  of  the  Fifth  Committee  that 
the  Committee  requests  an  extension  of  its  work  to 
Thursday,  20  December,  in  the  view  that  such  an 
extension would facilitate reaching a consensus on the 
pending draft resolutions before it.
May I take it that the General Assembly agrees to 
extend the work of the Fifth Committee until Thursday, 
20 December?
It was so decided. 
The meeting rose at 12.25 p.m. 
12-64420
21
