United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
32nd plenary meeting
Tuesday, 6 November 2012, 3 p.m.
New York
A/67/PV.32
Ofﬁ cial Records
President: Mr. Jeremić   . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  (Serbia)
In  the  absence  of  the  President,  Mr.  Charles 
(Trinidad  and  Tobago),  Vice-President,  took  the 
Chair.
deter the recurrence of such atrocities and, in the case 
that  they  did  recur,  to  try  those  responsible  with  the 
authority of both national and international law.
The meeting was called to order at 3.15 p.m.
Agenda item 74 (continued)
Report of the International Criminal Court
Note by the Secretary-General (A/67/308)
Report by the Secretary-General (A/67/378)
Mr. Ceriani (Uruguay) (spoke in Spanish): I would 
like to thank the President of the International Criminal 
Court  (ICC),  Judge  Sang-Hyun  Song,  for  having 
introduced  the  annual  report  of  the  Court  (A/67/308). 
I  would  also  like  to  take  this  opportunity  to  welcome 
the  appointment  of  Ms.  Fatou  Bensouda  as  Prosecutor 
of  the  Court  in  June,  and  to  wish  her  the  greatest  of 
success in her important role.
Uruguay  has  historically  supported  the  judicial 
resolution  of  disputes,  in  keeping  with  the  provisions 
of  the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations.  Today,  we  wish 
to  highlight  the  important  activity  carried  out  by  the 
tribunals  set  up  by  international  mandate  to  provide 
justice by trying perpetrators, whomever and wherever 
they  may  be.  Following  the  outrageous  human  rights 
violations  of  the  1990s  in  Rwanda  and  the  former 
Yugoslavia, and the establishment of the respective ad 
hoc international tribunals to address those situations, 
the international community finally came to understand 
that  an  international  criminal  court  was  necessary  to 
celebrating 
the 
are 
This  year,  we 
tenth 
anniversary  of  the  entry  into  force  of  the  statute  of 
the  International  Criminal  Court,  and  with  it  the 
beginning  of  the  end  of  impunity  at  the  international 
level. In that regard, we welcome the issuing this year 
of  the  first  judgment  by  the  Court  in  the  case  of  The 
Prosecutor  —  which  I  am  happy  to  identify  as  the 
international community — v. Thomas Lubanga Dyilo, 
as  well  as  the  conclusion  of  the  appeal,  which  is  now 
in  the  sentencing  stage.  This  shows  us  the  important 
work carried out by the Court, whose results are clear 
to see. We therefore support the swift ratification of the 
amendments to the statute of the Court adopted at the 
Kampala Review Conference.
Our country views with satisfaction the fact that the 
membership of the Court has grown significantly since 
the signing of the Rome Treaty. We welcome Guatemala 
for  having  recently  brought  the  number  of  member 
States  to  121.  We  extend  our  congratulations  likewise 
to Cape Verde, Maldives, the Philippines and Vanuatu. 
The total is approaching two thirds of the membership 
of  the  United  Nations.  We  hope  that  this  trend  will 
continue and accelerate so that the membership of the 
two  organizations  can  be  equal  in  the  not-too-distant 
future and that the jurisdiction of the Court can thereby 
extend fully to all of humankind.
With  regard  to  those  cases  referred  to  the  Court 
by  the  Security  Council,  we  are  satisfied  that  this 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-57593 (E)
*1257593*
A/67/PV.32
practice  has  been  put  to  good  use,  and  we  support  its 
continuation. We see the impact of armed conf licts and 
increasing  instances  of  grave  human  rights  violations 
continue to be of great concern. In turn, we believe that 
the Security Council should act in a consistent manner 
when faced with similar situations or cases.
We cannot hope for the Council to feel bound by its 
prior actions since it is not a judicial but a political organ. 
However, as the body to which the Charter entrusts the 
maintenance  of  international  peace  and  security  on 
behalf  of  the  international  community  as  a  whole,  the 
Council  should  act  responsibly  and  non-selectively  in 
all  situations  where  peace  is  threatened.  We  therefore 
agree  with  the  group  of  countries  that  believes  it  is 
appropriate to request the Security Council to refer the 
violations of human rights in Syria to the Court so that 
their perpetrators can be duly tried, regardless of who 
they are or whom they represent.
In  that  context,  we  recall  the  proposal  of  the 
group,  known  as  the  five  small  nations,  included  in 
a  draft  resolution  this  year  (A/66/L.42/Rev.2),  which 
recommended  that  the  permanent  members  of  the 
Security  Council  refrain  from  using  a  veto  to  block 
Council action aimed at preventing or ending genocide, 
war crimes and crimes against humanity.
We  understand,  that  in  accordance  with  the 
provisions  of  article  115  (b)  of  the  Rome  Statute,  the 
United  Nations  is  obliged  to  contribute  to  expenses 
incurred  in  referrals  that  the  Organization  makes 
through  the  Security  Council,  in  order  to  share  the 
financial  burden  of  international  criminal  justice. 
Accordingly,  we  hope  that  in  keeping  with  article  13 
of the Relationship Agreement between the two bodies, 
we  will  see  the  earliest  possible  conclusion  to  the 
arrangements  that  will  enable  such  cooperation  to  be 
implemented.
On  that  basis,  and  in  conclusion,  we  believe  that 
the existing cooperation between the Security Council 
and  the  Court  should  be  deepened,  involving  the 
establishment of some kind of follow-up mechanism for 
cases referred to the Court by the Council.
Mr. Panin (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian): 
We  thank  the  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court  (ICC),  Mr.  Sang-Hyun  Song,  for  his  report 
(see A/67/308), and we welcome Ms. Fatou Bensouda to 
her position as Prosecutor of the Court.
the 
Today’s  meeting  coincides  with 
tenth 
anniversary  of  the  founding  of  the  ICC.  We  therefore 
have  more  than  sufficient  grounds  for  taking  initial 
stock  of  its  activities.  Over  the  past  10  years,  the 
Court  has  succeeded  in  earning  a  certain  degree  of 
authority and occupying a unique niche in the system of 
international  bodies.  A  significant  event  in  its  history 
was  the  issuing  of  its  first  judgment  in  the  case  of 
The Prosecutor v. Thomas Lubanga Dyilo.
It  has  not  managed  to  do  so  without  problems, 
however, the source of most of which can be traced to 
the  Rome  Statute  itself,  which  unfortunately  is  not  a 
document  of  compromise.  In  particular,  with  respect 
to the issue of implementing arrest warrants issued by 
the  ICC,  the  problem  of  States’  cooperation  with  the 
Court  is  at  front  and  centre  today.  We  hope  that  its 
difficulties  will  embolden  the  ICC  and  that  in  such 
a  complex  situation  it  can  find  the  strength  to  fulfil 
its  mandate  effectively  and  impartially.  Clearly,  the 
manner  in  which  it  addresses  that  task  will  ultimately 
determine  whether  it  will  become  a  universal  body  of 
international criminal justice.
For  us,  the  decisive  question  relating  to  the  ICC 
remains the recent incorporation of crimes of aggression 
into  its  Statute.  We  are  troubled  by  the  fact  that  the 
Kampala compromise does not take fully into account 
the  Charter  prerogatives  of  the  Security  Council. 
We  feel    that  it  would  be  extremely  undesirable  if 
situations were to arise where the Court would exercise 
jurisdiction over crimes of aggression in the absence of 
an  appropriate  determination  by  the  Security  Council 
with respect to the existence of such a crime on the part 
of the relevant State.
Mrs. Martínez Lievano (Mexico) (spoke in Spanish): 
Mexico  thanks  the  President  of  the  International 
Criminal Court for his presentation of its annual report 
(see A/67/308). We also welcome Ms. Fatou Bensouda, 
the Prosecutor of the Court, and wish her every success 
in  her  work.  One  hundred  and  twenty-one  States  have 
joined forces towards their shared goal of international 
criminal justice.
Ten  years  after  the  entry  into  force  of  the  Rome 
Statute,  there  is  no  doubt  that  the  Court  has  made 
significant  progress  in  its  efforts  to  fight  impunity 
for  international  crimes,  demonstrated  by  its  first-
ever  judgment  and  sentencing  this  year,  as  well  as 
the  imminent  conclusion  of  other  highly  important 
cases. Similarly, the clear progress made in other cases 
before  the  Court  and  the  referral  of  other  situations 
2 
12-57593
demonstrate  not  only  the  consolidation  of  the  system 
created by the Statute but also the growing credibility 
and confidence placed in it.
Despite that progress, the Court’s tenth anniversary 
also offers an opportunity to assess the main challenges 
it faces. We have called on the remaining States to ratify 
the Statute as soon as possible in order to solidify that 
important instrument’s universality.
My  delegation  reiterates  that  States’  cooperation 
with  the  Court  is  fundamental  to  its  successful 
functioning. Twelve of the 19 arrest warrants issued by 
the  Court  are  still  awaiting  execution,  despite  the  fact 
that in some cases the whereabouts of the individuals is 
widely known. Mexico laments the lack of cooperation 
with  the  Court,  implicit  and  explicit,  that  some  States 
have  displayed,  thereby  undermining  the  system’s 
effectiveness  and  perpetuating  unacceptable  impunity 
regarding  their  crimes.  The  States  parties  to  the 
Statute  are  obliged  to  comply  with  such  requests,  and 
that obligation also applies to those States that are not 
party to the Statute that are the subjects of referrals for 
situations by the Security Council.
Mexico is and has been an active supporter of the 
Court. We are pleased to announce that this year, as in 
previous  years,  Mexico  again  introduced  a  resolution 
in the Organization of American States promoting the 
ratification  and  implementation  of  the  Statute,  and 
cooperation with the Court, on the part of the countries 
of the region. The resolution was adopted by consensus.
Lastly, my delegation would like emphasize an issue 
of vital importance to the effective consolidation of the 
Court, which is the allocation of sufficient resources. We 
cannot expect the Court to respond efficiently to more 
cases with fewer resources, the lack of which could lead 
to denial of justice for crimes of enormous significance 
to  the  international  community.  We  therefore  appeal 
for  the  Court  to  be  sufficiently  financed  to  allow it  to 
comply effectively with its mandate. Mexico will make 
a  constructive  contribution  in  this  regard  at  the  next 
Assembly of the States Parties to the Statute.
Mr.  Errázuriz  (Chile)  (spoke  in  Spanish):  I  take 
this  opportunity  to  express  the  Chilean  delegation’s 
appreciation  to  the  President  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court,  Judge  Sang-Hyun  Song,  for  the 
comprehensive  report  he  presented  for  the  period 
1  August  2011  to  31  July  2012  (A/67/308).  The  heavy 
responsibilities of the International Criminal Court and 
A/67/PV.32
its  work  are  worth  emphasizing  to  the  international 
community.
For  Chile, 
the  International  Criminal  Court 
today  represents  the  most  advanced  expression  of  the 
international  criminal  justice  system  and  one  of  the 
most important initiatives we have seen in recent years.
In  the  domain  of  the  protection  of  human  rights,  the 
Court’s creation represented great progress in the fight 
against impunity. It clearly demonstrates that the States 
parties and the international community are committed 
to that path. 
Accordingly,  Chile  firmly  supports  the  work 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court  and  takes  this 
opportunity to underscore the tenth anniversary of the 
Rome  Statute’s  entry  into  force.  Likewise,  we  highly 
appreciate the first judgment ever issued by the Court, 
in the case of The Prosecutor v. Thomas Lubanga Dyilo, 
this  year.  We  also  highlight  the  seven  investigations 
under way, which represent the Court’s functionality. 
We  believe  it  important  that,  in  fulfilling  its 
mandate,  the  Court  receive  the  material  and  human 
resources necessary  to its judicial work and important 
functions.  We  are  convinced  that  the  relationship 
between  the  International  Criminal  Court  and  the 
United Nations, through the General Assembly and the 
Security Council, promotes the rule of law, encourages 
respect  for  human  rights  and  contributes  to  achieving 
international  peace  and  security,  in  accordance  with 
international law and the purposes and principles of the 
Charter of the United Nations.
We take this opportunity to mention an important 
matter, namely, the link between the Security Council 
and the International Criminal Court, and specifically 
the  powers  of  the  former  to  refer  situations  or  defer 
investigations,  pursuant  to  articles  13  and  16  of  the 
Rome  Statute.  In  that  respect,  it  is  our  opinion  that 
the  Security  Council  should  exercise  its  power  to 
refer  situations  or  defer  investigations  on  the  basis  of 
consistent criteria in order to show that such decisions 
are  not  arbitrary.  Furthermore,  we  are  convinced  that, 
in  addition  to  backing  those  decisions,  the  Council 
should follow up its referrals to the Court while paying 
special  attention  to  issues  involving  non-cooperation. 
It  would  also  be  appropriate,  when  the  Council  refers 
a  case  to  the  International  Criminal  Court,  for  the 
General  Assembly  to  evaluate  the  case  to  ensure  that 
the  Court  has  the  resources  necessary  to  take  on  such 
referral.
12-57593
3
A/67/PV.32
We  reiterate  that  the  cornerstone  of  the  Rome 
Statute is the principle of complementarity, whereby the 
essential obligation of national courts is to investigate, 
prosecute  and  punish  those  responsible  for  the  most 
serious  international  crimes  under  the  terms  of  the 
Rome  Statute.  Along  those  lines,  the  International 
Criminal  Court  is  called  upon  to  intervene  in  those 
cases  in  which  crimes  have  been  committed  in  States 
that are not in a position or lack the will to undertake 
the  proposed  judicial  proceedings.  In  that  regard,  we 
believe that cooperation with the International Criminal 
Court is a fundamental part of its work. For that reason, 
at  the  High-level  Meeting  on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the 
National and International Levels of 24 September (see 
A/67/PV.3), my country pledged to develop legislation 
on cooperation with the International Criminal Court. 
We  appeal  to  States  that  have  not  yet  done  so  to 
become party to the Rome Statute in order to advance 
its  universality.  Nonetheless,  we  underscore  that  there 
are now 121 States parties. We also call upon the States 
parties  to  adopt  the  amendments  of  the  Rome  Statute 
that were adopted at Kampala in 2010. We also note that 
our country is working towards that goal.
it 
is 
timely 
In  conclusion, 
to  reiterate  our 
appreciation  for 
the 
International Criminal Court, as well as for its valuable 
contribution to the fight against impunity.
the  commendable  work  of 
Ms.  Intelmann  (Estonia):  I  am  speaking  in  my 
capacity as President of the Assembly of States Parties 
to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court 
and  as  Estonia’s  Ambassador-at-large.  In  making  this 
statement,  Estonia  aligns  itself  with  the  statement 
delivered on behalf of the European Union.
I  would  like  to  thank  the  President  of  the 
International  Criminal  Court  for  his  report  on  the 
Court’s activities (A/67/308). On 1 July, the Court and 
its States parties commemorated the tenth anniversary 
of the entry into force of the Rome Statute. The report 
ref lects  just  how  far  the  level  of  the  Court’s  activities 
has  risen  during  that  time,  and  what  an  indispensable 
tool it has become in the fight against the worst crimes 
under  international  law:  genocide,  war  crimes  and 
crimes against humanity.
It  has  been  an  important  year.  On  14  March,  the 
Court  rendered  the  first  verdict  in  its  history,  in  the 
case  of  The  Prosecutor  v.  Thomas  Lubanga  Dyilo, 
finding  Mr.  Lubanga  Dyilo  guilty  of  recruiting  and 
using  child  soldiers  and  subsequently  sentencing  him 
to 14 years of imprisonment. Already, the case has had 
an impact in the Democratic Republic of the Congo and 
beyond  its  borders.  The  Special  Representative  of  the 
Secretary-General  for  Children  and  Armed  Conf lict 
has stated that parties to conf licts as far away from the 
Democratic Republic of the Congo as Nepal have taken 
note  of  the  case  and  adjusted  their  behaviour  for  the 
better. 
Although  I  should  note  that  a  number  of  final 
appeals  are  still  pending,  the  Court  and  States  parties 
are  already  working  together  to  engage  in  a  lessons-
learned  exercise  to  ensure  that  all  measures  are  taken 
to make future trials more efficient. 
I  should  also  like  to  note  that  on  10  July,  Trial 
Chamber I made its first-ever decision on reparations, 
establishing  the  principles  to  apply  to  the  reparations 
procedure that will now be used to shape the process of 
granting reparations to Mr. Lubanga’s victims. 
The  International  Criminal  Court  was  the  first 
to  incorporate  an  element  of  reparative  justice  in  its 
proceedings — it is a key part of what makes the Rome 
Statute  unique.  Even  in  cases  such  as  the  present,  in 
which  the  convicted  person  has  no  assets  to  be  used, 
the  Trust  Fund  for  Victims,  utilizing  States  parties’ 
voluntary  contributions,  can  have  an  impact  on  the 
reparations  process.  The  effective  implementation  of 
those  reparations  through  the  Trust  Fund  for  Victims 
will  be  a  key  step  in  showing  victims  that  they  were 
right to place their trust in the Court.
As we speak today, there are 121 States parties to 
the Rome Statute. Since our last meeting on the subject, 
Vanuatu and Guatemala have joined the family of States 
parties. Throughout this tenth anniversary year, I have 
had the pleasure of meeting officials, parliamentarians 
and  representatives  of  civil  society  from  a  number  of 
non-States parties, particularly from the Pacific region 
and  from  Africa,  including  North  Africa,  in  order 
to  encourage  them  to  ratify  or  accede  to  the  Rome 
Statute.  My  message  in  the  meetings  has  always  been 
the same — the Court’s record speaks for itself. It has 
proved  itself  to  be  the  most  effective  international 
judicial  institution  in  the  fight  against  impunity  for 
the most serious crimes under international law, acting 
as  a  court  of  last  resort  in  numerous  situations  where 
national judicial systems have been unwilling or unable 
to investigate and prosecute. 
In  2002,  the  International  Criminal  Court  was  a 
good idea; in 2012, we see a Court that has been able to 
4 
12-57593
execute that good idea in a professional and independent 
manner.  Few  if  any  of  the  fears  that  States  had  before 
the  entry  into  force  of  the  Rome  Statute  have  proved 
themselves true. Instead, joining the Rome Statute has 
become part of the acquis of international law — a key 
way for any State to demonstrate its commitment to the 
fight against impunity in a meaningful way. 
I call on all States that have not yet done so to ratify 
or accede to the Rome Statue.
The  Rome  Statute  is  a  system  built  on  State 
cooperation. As the report before us notes, cooperation 
by States parties is generally very good. Nevertheless, 
cooperation  in  perhaps  its  most  crucial  form  —  the 
arrest and surrender of persons against whom warrants 
of arrest have been issued by the Court — leaves room 
for  improvement.  More  than  10  such  individuals  are 
currently  at  large.  As  was  noted  by  several  speakers 
in  the  Security  Council  open  debate  (see  S/PV.6849), 
cooperation  is  especially  difficult  in  situations  that 
have been referred to the Court by the Security Council. 
Voluntary  commitment  to  the  Rome  Statute  is 
the  driving  force  behind  cooperation;  those  States 
compelled  by  the  Security  Council  to  cooperate  with 
the Court have made no such commitment. Especially 
in  those  cases,  effective  follow-up  by  the  Security 
Council is necessary to ensure that its own resolutions 
are enforced and that the Court receives the cooperation 
it requires. In that regard, I should like to point out that 
the Assembly of States Parties has adopted procedures 
to  follow  in  cases  of  non-cooperation,  which  were 
activated  for  the  first  time  this  year.  The  Assembly  is 
also working to assist and advise States on all aspects 
of cooperation with the Court.
It 
for 
is  crucial 
international  organizations, 
including  the  United  Nations,  to  avoid  non-essential 
contacts with persons against whom warrants of arrest 
have been issued by the ICC.
The  International  Criminal  Court  is  a  court  of 
last  resort.  States  have  the  primary  responsibility  for 
investigating and prosecuting those who have committed 
the worst crimes under international law. Indeed, States 
parties are discussing, within the framework of positive 
complementarity,  the  steps  they  can  take  to  assist  one 
another in fulfilling their primary responsibility. In that 
matter,  interaction  with  United  Nations  development 
actors  and  civil  society  is  important.  The  experience 
of  the  past  10  years  has  proved,  however,  that  it  does 
occasionally become necessary for the ICC to step in. 
A/67/PV.32
Instances  of  genocide,  war  crimes  and  crimes 
against  humanity  should  not  remain  unpunished; 
neither  should  the  crime  of  aggression.  I  am  pleased 
that, this year, the first two States parties have ratified 
the amendments to the Rome Statute on that crime. My 
own country, Estonia, has pledged to pursue ratification 
of  the  amendments  on  the  crime  of  aggression  and  on 
article 8 by the end of 2013. I call on other States parties 
to do the same. States newly joining the Rome Statute 
should  consider  joining  the  Statute,  including  both  of 
the Kampala amendments.
My  country  remains  a  steadfast  supporter  of 
the  International  Criminal  Court.  It  fulfils  its  legal 
obligations to the Court and supports it politically. We 
are proud of the Court’s achievements over the past 10 
years,  but  it  is  clear  that  such  success  depends  on  the 
political support of States Parties. States that have not 
yet joined the Statute also have many opportunities to 
support the fight against impunity.
Mr. Motanyane (Lesotho): Allow me at the outset 
to  thank  the  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court  (ICC)  for  the  informative  and  comprehensive 
report covering the work of the Court over the past year 
(A/67/308). The report comes at a most befitting time, 
when the Court is celebrating 10 years of existence. It 
is an opportunity for us to ref lect upon and consolidate 
the achievements made by the Court in the past decade 
and to carefully assess prospects for the future.
The conviction that peace and justice are inextricably 
intertwined  has  always  underpinned  the  efforts  of 
the  United  Nations  in  the  area  of  the  maintenance  of 
international  peace  and  security.  The  adoption  of  the 
Convention  on  the  Prevention  and  Punishment  of  the 
Crime of Genocide in 1948, and the creation of ad hoc 
international  criminal  tribunals  to  try  perpetrators  of 
the most heinous crimes, are some of the beacons that 
highlight  this  truism.  Indeed,  the  creation  of  the  ICC 
in  1998  was  a  clear  manifestation  of  the  international 
community’s desire to pursue a peaceful and just world.
In our view, the ICC remains a concrete expression 
of our collective aspiration to ensure justice for victims 
of  atrocities  and  to  end  impunity  for  perpetrators  of 
the  most  serious  crimes  through  a  law-based  system. 
In  recent  years,  we  have  witnessed  the  steady  growth 
of  political  and  diplomatic  support  for  the  ICC.  That 
is  ostensibly  a  genuine  ref lection  of  the  international 
community’s  increasing  rejection  of  impunity,  and 
evidence that there is a rising tide in favour of the rule 
of law. 
12-57593
5
A/67/PV.32
With  the  accession  of  Guatemala  in  April,  there 
are now 121 States parties to the Rome Statute, which 
is  clearly  an  indication  that  the  ICC  has  become  a 
thriving and independent judicial body that enjoys even 
broader  support.  We  welcome  the  new  member  to  the 
ICC family, and call on those States not yet party to the 
Rome Statute to consider joining us in the fight to end 
impunity.
The report of the ICC on the past year indicates that 
the workload of the Court has continued to grow. Despite 
that fact, it is gratifying to note that significant judicial 
progress  was  made  by  the  Court  during  the  reporting 
period.  Of  particular  interest  to  my  delegation  is  the 
handing down of the first judgment and sentence of the 
Court since its creation, in the case of The Prosecutor 
v. Thomas Lubanga Dyilo. In addition, the continuation 
of  investigations  and  judicial  processes  in  seven  other 
situations,  as  well  as  the  referral  of  an  eighth  matter 
by  a  State  party,  testify  to  the  fact  that  the  Court  has  
indeed entered a new era of justice delivery. 
Furthermore, we welcome the following important 
institutional developments: the swearing-in of Ms. Fatou 
Bensouda  as  the  first  female  Prosecutor  of  the  Court, 
the  election  of  six  new  judges,  and  the  assumption  of 
office  by  the  new  President  of  the  Assembly  of  States 
Parties.  We  are  pleased  that  the  process  of  selecting 
the  candidates  for  the  position  of  Deputy  Prosecutor 
has  produced  three  eminently  qualified  candidates. 
Undoubtedly,  the  candidate  who  will  be  elected  by 
the  Assembly  of  States  Parties  will  be  a  welcome 
complement to the Office of the Prosecutor, during the 
next phase of the Court’s development.
We  are  convinced  that  in  order  for  the  Court 
to  achieve  its  mandate,  it  must  benefit  from  the 
unwavering support and cooperation of the international 
community  and  relevant  international  organizations. 
That  view  was  reiterated  by  the  General  Assembly  in 
September  when  it  adopted  a  Declaration  on  the  rule 
of  law  (resolution  67/1)  that,  inter  alia,  recognizes  the 
importance of cooperation with the Court by all States 
Members of the United Nations. 
the 
difficulties 
Lesotho 
appreciates 
that 
non-execution  of  requests  for  cooperation  can  have 
on  the  ability  of  the  Court  to  fulfil  its  mandate.  We 
shall  therefore  continue  to  advocate  for  cooperation 
by  all  States  parties  with  the  Court.  However,  full 
cooperation with the Court will continue to elude us if 
we do not ensure that it is adequately insulated against 
politicization. We must guarantee that there is enough 
protection  against  politicized  prosecution  and  other 
abuses.  Double  standards  would  degrade  the  integrity 
of the Court.
If  the  faith  of  the  international  community  in  the 
Court is to be sustained, selective prosecutions must be 
avoided; charges must be preferred against the mighty 
and  the  weak,  against  the  rich  and  the  poor,  alike.  By 
the  same  token,  we  need  to  strengthen  the  checks  and 
balances  mechanisms  in  order  to  enhance  faith  in  the 
Court and thereby promote the cooperation and support 
of all Member States.
The  ICC  enjoys  a  special  legal  relationship  with 
the  Security  Council.  The  Council  is  empowered 
to  refer  cases  to  the  Court  under  the  Rome  Statute. 
It  also  has  a  right  to  request,  in  deserving  cases,  a 
stay  of  proceedings  for  a  certain  period  of  time,  for 
individuals against whom charges have been preferred. 
That arrangement has encouraged perceptions that the 
Court is susceptible to abuse by the Council. The only 
way to thwart such perceptions is for that relationship 
to be carefully nurtured in a manner that preserves the 
independence and integrity of the Court. It is only when 
the Court is truly independent that it will be able to be 
effective, exercise fairness and enjoy legitimacy. 
There  is  no  doubt  that  an  ICC  that  is  not  only 
independent,  but  also  seen  to  be  independent,  will 
encourage more cooperation from all stakeholders and 
promote the universal ratification of the Rome Statute.
that 
We  must  never  forget 
the  principle  of 
complementarity lies at the heart of the creation of the 
ICC. Ideally, it is States themselves that have the primary 
responsibility  to  prosecute  crimes  committed  in  their 
territory  or  by  their  nationals.  The  ICC  is  designed  to 
complement  existing  national  judicial  systems  and  to 
act as a necessary accountability safety net in situations 
where  States  do  not  fulfil  their  obligations.  As  such, 
it  is  only  in  situations  where  a  State  is  unwilling 
or  for  some  reason  unable  to  prosecute  a  matter  that 
recourse should be had to the ICC. There is therefore a 
need to strengthen national criminal justice systems to 
competently deal with perpetrators of the most heinous 
crimes, which will help to alleviate both the workload 
on the Court and the attendant costs to States parties.
One of the characteristics that make the ICC a sui 
generis court is that it is the first international criminal 
court  with  the  power  to  order  individuals  to  pay 
reparation  to  victims.  That  is  an  ingenious  innovation 
that must be put to use efficiently. It is the hope of my 
6 
12-57593
delegation  that  once  cases  have  been  completed  and 
those  accused  have  been  found  guilty,  the  reparations 
process  will  be  undertaken  without  undue  delay. 
That  will  undoubtedly  go  a  long  way  towards  helping 
victims’ scars to heal even faster.
Allow  me  to  conclude  by  reiterating  Lesotho’s 
firm  and  long-standing  commitment  to  the  integrity 
of  the  Rome  Statute  and  to  an  effective  and  credible 
International  Criminal  Court.  A  robust  international 
criminal  justice  system  is  an  ideal  that  we  must 
achieve and, indeed, the best hope that we can offer to 
victims of the most atrocious crimes. Let us resolve to 
further strengthen the ICC in its capacity to effectively 
implement its mandate.
Ms.  Dwarika  (South  Africa):  My  delegation 
congratulates  Judge  Song  on  his  reappointment  as 
President  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (ICC). 
We  thank  him  for  his  statement  (see  A/67/PV.29),  as 
well as for the report of the ICC to the United Nations 
(A/67/308).
Allow  me  to  take  the  opportunity  to  congratulate 
all  of  the  judges  who  were  elected  during  the  most 
recent session of the Assembly of States Parties to the 
ICC.  We  also  congratulate  Ambassador  Intelmann  on 
her  assumption  of  the  presidency  of  the  Assembly  of 
States Parties. 
It  gives  us  particular  pleasure  to  congratulate 
Ms.  Fatou  Bensouda  on  her  election,  by  consensus,  to 
the  position  of  Chief  Prosecutor  of  the  International 
Criminal  Court.  We  wish  her  well  as  she  embarks  on 
what we are certain will be a challenging but ultimately 
successful nine-year term.
Since the delivery of our statement last year under 
this  agenda  item  (see  A/66/PV.44),  two  new  States 
have  become  party  to  the  Rome  Statute.  We  welcome 
Vanuatu and Guatemala to the Rome Statute family and 
look forward to working closely with them.
Over  and  above  the  institutional  developments, 
much  has  happened  in  terms  of  the  fight  against 
impunity,  in  general,  and  the  International  Criminal 
Court  in  particular.  This  year,  the  United  Nations  has 
been correctly concerned with promotion of the rule of 
law. On 19 January, the Security Council held a debate 
on  the  rule  of  law  in  the  maintenance  of  international 
peace  and  security  (see  S/PV.6705).  The  presidential 
statement adopted that day (S/PRST/2012/1) stressed the 
importance of the fight against impunity in promoting 
the  rule  of  law  and  recalled  the  ICC’s  significant 
A/67/PV.32
contribution  to  the  fight  against  impunity.  Similarly, 
on  24  September,  Heads  of  State  and  Government 
adopted  a  Declaration  that  recognized  “the  role  of the 
International  Criminal  Court  in  a  multilateral  system 
that aims to end impunity and establish the rule of law” 
(resolution 67/1, para. 23). On 17 October the Security 
Council held a debate (see S/PV.6849) that focused on 
the  rule  of  law  and  the  role  of  the  ICC  in  that  regard. 
All  of  those  actions  ref lect  the  growing  acceptance  of 
the important role played by the ICC in promoting and 
strengthening of the rule of law.
We have taken note of the important developments 
in the work of the ICC. We are particularly pleased that 
the  Court  has  issued  its  first  judgment  in  the  case  of 
The Prosecutor v. Thomas Lubanga Dyilo, and has also 
issued  its  first  judgments  on  the  issue  of  reparations 
for  victims.  We  have  also  noted  that  the  trial  in  the 
case  of  The  Prosecutor  v.  Germain  Katanga  and 
Mathieu  Ngudjolo  Chui  Katanga  has  been  completed, 
and we await the judgment of the Court.
My  delegation  notes  with  some  satisfaction  the 
cooperation  among  the  various  organs  of  the  Court, 
States,  international  organizations  and  civil  society. 
Nonetheless,  we  remain  concerned  about  the  high 
incidence of non-cooperation relating not only to cases 
of  non-execution  of  outstanding  arrest  warrants,  but 
also to recent events surrounding the detention of ICC 
staff members.
As in the past, we have taken note of the situations 
under  preliminary  analysis  by  the  Prosecutor.  In  our 
previous  statements,  we  have  called  upon  the  Office 
of  the  Prosecutor  to  consider  these  cases,  with  the 
requisite  urgency,  and  come  to  a  decision  as  soon  as 
possible, particularly on those situations that have been 
pending for a long period of time. 
Nonetheless,  we  do  wish  to  express  our  concern 
about the manner in which the decision on Palestine was 
made. Given the passage of time, developments within 
the United Nations system, including on the admission 
of Palestine as a member to the UNESCO and the sheer 
number  of  States,  including  States  parties,  that  have 
recognized  Palestine,  we  were  disappointed  by  the 
unwillingness of the Office of the Prosecutor to make 
a firm decision.
We wish to highlight the importance of strengthening 
the  relationship  between  the  United  Nations  and  the 
ICC,  in  accordance  with  the  Relationship  Agreement. 
We note in that regard that when the Security Council 
12-57593
7
A/67/PV.32
refers a situation to the ICC, it does so on behalf of the 
United Nations as a whole. We are therefore convinced 
that the United Nations should contribute financially to 
the costs of investigations and prosecutions of situations 
referred by the Council.
In  conclusion,  the  International  Criminal  Court  is 
an institution designed to create a better world through 
fighting  impunity.  We  will  continue  to  support  the 
Court so that it can grow in strength.
Mr.  Sarki  (Nigeria):  On  behalf  of  my  delegation, 
I thank Judge Sang-Hyun Song for his participation in 
the  debate  on  this  agenda  item  and  his  comprehensive 
report to the General Assembly. 
We  congratulate  Ms.  Fatou  Bensouda  on  her 
recent election as Chief Prosecutor of the International 
Criminal  Court  (ICC)  and  wish  her  every  success 
during  her  tenure.  We  also  extend  our  appreciation 
to  the  Secretary-General  for  the  eighth  annual  report 
on  the  activities  of  the  ICC,  contained  in  document 
A/67/308, submitted in accordance with article 6 of the 
Relationship  Agreement  between  the  United  Nations 
and the International Criminal Court.
We  welcome  the  progress  recorded  during  the 
reporting  period  in  the  trials  of  individuals,  with  a 
view  to  strengthening  international  cooperation  in the 
fight  against  impunity  and  other  serious  crimes,  such 
as  crimes  against  humanity.  Nigeria  welcomes  the 
celebration of the tenth anniversary of the ICC in July. 
We also note the issuance of 22 warrants of arrests, 16 
cases  and  seven  ongoing  investigations  that  are  in  the 
pipeline. 
This year marks a historic milestone towards ending 
impunity. We express our appreciation to the President 
of  the  Assembly  of  States  Parties,  Ambassador  Tiina 
Intelmann  of  Estonia,  for  her  tremendous  work  in 
coordinating  all  of  the  efforts  to  commemorate  the 
anniversary,  both  within  and  outside  of  the  Assembly 
of States Parties. 
appreciation 
We  note  with  particular 
the 
considerable  increase  in  the  number  of  States  that 
have  become  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute.  There  is  no 
doubt that the Court’s jurisdiction continues to expand 
towards  universal  acceptance,  and  for  that  reason  we 
urge those States that have yet to accede to or ratify the 
treaty to do so without further delay.
As  a  signatory  to  the  Statute,  Nigeria  remains 
committed  to  the  ideals  of  the  ICC,  which  was 
established  to  dispense  justice  without  partiality  as  to 
who  may  be  involved  in  abuse  or  gross  violations  of 
human rights. The objective of the ICC is based on the 
concept that justice transcends the confines of national 
boundaries,  that  impunity  must  be  challenged,  and 
that  all  are  accountable  for  their  actions  regardless  of 
status or location. The Court has fulfilled its mandates 
under  trying  and  sometimes  difficult  circumstances. 
Its actions in ensuring that its mandates are effectively 
discharged  are  commendable.  We  believe  that  the 
ICC  stands  for  ensuring  that  the  cherished  principle 
of  accountability,  which  helps  sustain  effective  and 
lasting peace and security, is maintained.
of 
States, 
The 
cooperation 
international 
organizations  and  civil  society  is  vital  to  the  Court’s 
ability  to  continue  to  discharge  its  role,  as  enshrined 
in the Rome Statute. To further deepen and strengthen 
that  function,  it  is  imperative  that  unhindered  access 
for proper investigations, the execution of outstanding 
warrants, the protection of witnesses, the enforcement 
of  sentences  and  the  surrender  of  persons  indicted  for 
war  crimes  be  complied  with  expeditiously  in  order 
to  prevent  the  future  occurrence  of  crimes.  Most 
importantly,  it  is  essential  that  contributions  be  made 
to the Trust Fund established for the benefit of victims 
of crimes that fall within the jurisdiction of the Court 
and their families.
We wish to observe, however, that in order for the 
International Criminal Court to continue to be effective 
and enjoy the trust of the international community, its 
indictment system for war crimes should be independent 
and  non-selective.  In  that  regard,  we  encourage  the 
ICC’s greater engagement with the African Union (AU) 
in  order  to  harmonize  their  positions  and  agree  on 
actions  affecting  persons  indicted  in  Africa.  Rightly, 
the  AU  Constitutive  Act  does  not  condone  impunity. 
Discussions  with  the  AU  would  also  afford  both  sides 
an opportunity to explore ways and means by which the 
capacities of Member States to fight impunity would be 
strengthened.
In  our  collective  responsibility  for  ensuring  the 
credible  applicability  of  the  international  criminal 
justice system, we must overcome such challenges as the 
issues of complementarity, non-cooperation, assistance 
to  victims,  reparation  and  the  budget  of  the  Court. 
Evidence  shows  that  the  number  of  cases  referred  by 
States parties and referrals by the Security Council has 
increased,  and  those  that  the  Prosecutor  of  the  Court 
has  initiated  proprio  motu,  in  accordance  with  the 
8 
12-57593
Rome  Statute,  require  funding  of  expenses  related  to 
investigations or prosecutions. We take this opportunity 
to call on all States and the Security Council to consider 
making voluntary contributions to alleviate the Court’s 
expenses, or to increase their contributions in order to 
defray such costs. Above all, the cooperation of States 
that  are  not  parties  to  the  Rome  Statute  is  absolutely 
necessary. Close cooperation and consultation between 
the United Nations and the ICC are also indispensable 
in this context.
Earlier  this  year,  Nigeria  acceded  to  the  Rome 
Statute. In doing so, we were mindful of our international 
obligations  and  our  commitment  to  ending  impunity 
and  upholding  the  rule  of  law.  This  also  demonstrates 
our  willingness  to  discourage  any  form  of  or  support 
for  impunity,  and  recognizes  the  ICC’s  important 
contribution to the fight against impunity for the most 
serious crimes. In that context, my Government, through 
its judiciary, has put in place the machinery necessary 
to end the insurgency of the Boko Haram terrorist group 
in our country. The Government is already working on 
investigating and prosecuting any such crimes through 
appropriate  domestic  bodies,  in  accordance  with  our 
judicial requirements and standards.
Finally, the election in December 2011 of Nigeria’s 
candidate Chile Eboe-Osuji as a Judge of the ICC gives 
credence to our commitment to the pursuit of peace and 
respect for human rights and the rule of law, in Africa 
and around the world. It is a testament to Nigeria’s role 
in  supporting  global  peace  and  stability  in  the  comity 
of nations. We therefore reaffirm our continued support 
and  commitment  to  the  objectives  of  the  International 
Criminal Court.
Mr.  Weisleder  (Costa  Rica)  (spoke  in  Spanish): 
Costa Rica thanks Judge Song for presenting the report 
of  the  International  Criminal  Court  (A/67/308),  in 
accordance with article 6 of the Relationship Agreement 
between  the  United  Nations  and  the  International 
Criminal Court.
On  the  tenth  anniversary  of  the  Court’s  creation, 
which  was  undoubtedly  one  of  the  most  important 
achievements of multilateralism, Costa Rica welcomes 
the  increase  in  the  number  of  States  parties  to  the 
Court,  and  particularly  welcomes  the  fact  that  the 
most recent addition came from our Central American 
region  with  Guatemala’s  ratification  in  April.  My 
country  is  committed  to  continuing  to  work  for  the 
universalization and integrity of the Rome Statute, and 
A/67/PV.32
for the entry into force of the Court’s jurisdiction over 
all the crimes included in the Statute.
We also welcome the specific and detailed reference 
to the Court in the outcome document of the High-level 
Meeting  on  the  Rule  of  Law  held  on  24  September 
(resolution  67/1).  This  is  an  acknowledgement  of  its 
role in combating impunity and an endorsement of the 
primacy of law and justice.
We  are  also  gratified  by  the  fact  that,  among  the 
voluntary pledges made by States within the framework 
of  that  meeting,  a  large  number  —  including  Costa 
Rica’s — were related to strengthening the International 
Criminal Court. In that regard, Costa Rica, in keeping 
with its commitment, has already launched the national 
approval  process  for  the  amendments  to  the  Rome 
Statute  adopted  in  Kampala  in  2010,  and  will  pursue 
that  process  with  the  aim  of  achieving  ratification  as 
soon as possible. We urge other States parties to ratify 
the  amendment  to  article  8  and  the  reference  to  the 
crime  of  aggression  without  delay,  with  the  aim  of 
achieving its entry into force in 2017.
In  2011,  Costa  Rica  ratified  the  Agreement  on 
Privileges and Immunities of the Court. In view of the 
serious  situation  experienced  by  the  Court’s  officials 
in June, my delegation wishes to urge those States that 
have not yet done so to proceed to signing and ratifying 
the Agreement without delay.
It will be impossible to achieve meaningful results 
in the fight against impunity as long as we cannot count 
on the individual and collective support of States, and 
as long as those States, whether or not they are party to 
the Rome Statute, have not yet developed their judicial 
and  criminal  investigation  systems  to  a  level  where 
the  principle  of  complementarity  can  be  effectively 
implemented.
Another  subject  that  has  us  very  concerned  is 
the  repeated  failure  of  some  States  parties  to  comply 
with  their  clear  and  compelling  responsibilities  under 
the  Rome  State.  What  is  especially  serious  is  the  fact 
that  such  failure  to  comply  is  ref lected  in  the  refusal 
to  execute  arrest  warrants  in  force.  At  present,  there 
are 11 outstanding arrest warrants, four of which were 
issued  seven  years  ago.  There  is  no  valid  legal  reason 
for  persisting  with  such  behaviour,  particularly  given 
the  defiance  implied  in  a  State  party’s  reception  on 
its territory of individuals who are the subject of such 
arrest warrants.
12-57593
9
A/67/PV.32
Another  issue  that  warrants  our  full  attention 
is  the  financial  predicament  of  the  Court.  While  it  is 
true  that  we  are  facing  a  difficult  global  economic 
situation,  we  cannot  allow  any  of  the  functions  of  the 
Court to be undermined by budgetary restrictions. The 
activities of the Court have increased substantially as a 
consequence both of the gravity of violations of human 
rights  and  dignity,  and  of  greater  recognition  of  its 
jurisdiction. That is ref lected in its operating costs and 
in the implementation of all its programmes.
For  2013,  the  Court  undertook  an  exercise  aimed 
at  streamlining  costs  and  making  more  efficient  use 
of  its  resources,  which  led  to  a  sensible  budget  with 
minimal  growth,  notwithstanding  the  fact  that  it  now 
has to address the situation in Côte d’Ivoire and the new 
case of Kenya. Costa Rica objects to any proposal that 
would limit the Court’s scope or ability to act. For that 
reason,  we  cannot  consider  any  zero-growth  proposal 
in  its  budget,  much  less  one  that  would  require  the 
Court  to  absorb  the  new  budget  line  related  to  paying 
the leasehold on its headquarters. 
The  driving  force  of  the  Court  should  remain  the 
quest  for  justice,  an  end  to  impunity  for  the  worst 
crimes,  and  care  for  victims,  without  overlooking  its 
outreach  and  information  activities.  The  strength  and 
quality  of  concern  for  those  functions  of  the  Court 
should not be contingent on financial concerns.
With  that  in  mind,  my  delegation  feels  that  it  is 
especially  important  to  trigger  the  implementation  of 
article  115(b)  of  the  Rome  Statute,  pertaining  to  the 
economic  contribution  of  the  United  Nations  to  the 
Court, especially with respect to the costs incurred by 
cases referred by the Security Council. To that end, we 
must  take  into  account  the  provisions  of  article  13  of 
the Relationship Agreement between the Court and the 
United Nations of 4 October 2004.
Costa  Rica  pledges  to  continue  supporting  the 
universalization,  independence  and  integrity  of  the 
Court  so  that,  in  conjunction  with  States  parties,  as 
provided  for  in  the  preamble  of  the  Rome  Statute, 
we  can  guarantee  respect  for  and  compliance  with 
international justice. 
Mr.  Simonoff  (United  States  of  America):  We 
would  like  to  thank  President  Song  for  his  report 
(A/67/308)  and  for  his  service  to  the  International 
Criminal Court (ICC). 
As  we  stated  last  month  in  the  Security  Council’s 
open  debate  on  the  role  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court  (see  S/PV.6849),  strengthening  accountability 
for  those  responsible  for  the  worst  atrocities  remains 
an  important  priority  for  the  United  States.  Although 
the United States is not a party to the Rome Statute, we 
recognize  that  the  ICC  can  have  an  important  role  to 
play in accountability. Moreover, we remain steadfast in 
our commitment to ensuring appropriate accountability 
for  those  responsible  for  serious  violations  of  human 
rights and international humanitarian law. 
President  Obama  has  emphasized  the  importance 
of  preventing  mass  atrocities  and  genocide  as  a  core 
national  security  interest,  as  well  as  a  core  moral 
responsibility,  of 
the  United  States.  The  United 
States  is  committed  to  working  with  the  international 
community,  including  through  the  United  Nations,  to 
bring concerted international pressure to bear in order 
to  prevent  atrocities  and  ensure  accountability  for  the 
perpetrators of those crimes. To that end, we continue 
to  support  positive  complementarity  initiatives  by 
assisting countries in their efforts to develop domestic 
accountability processes for atrocity crimes. 
Accountability and peace begin with Governments 
taking care of their own people. The ICC, by its nature, 
is  designed  to  pursue  only  those  accused  of  bearing 
the  greatest  responsibility  for  the  most  serious  crimes 
within  its  jurisdiction  when  States  are  not  willing  or 
able  to  investigate  or  prosecute  genuinely.  Thus,  even 
when the ICC investigates and prosecutes, it still only 
serves  to  complement  the  work  of  States  conducting 
national-level prosecutions. 
The  international  community  must  continue  to 
support  rule-of-law  capacity-building  initiatives  to 
advance  transitional  justice,  including  the  creation 
of  hybrid  structures  where  appropriate,  and  must 
develop a shared approach to recurring issues, such as 
coordinated and effective protection for witnesses and 
judicial personnel. From the Democratic Republic of the 
Congo to Côte d’Ivoire to Cambodia, the United States 
is supporting efforts to build fair, impartial and capable 
national  justice  systems.  At  the  same  time,  more  can 
be done to strengthen accountability mechanisms at the 
international level. Particularly as the ad hoc tribunals 
and courts draw to a close in the coming years, the ICC 
can become an even more important safeguard against 
impunity. 
We have actively engaged with the ICC Prosecutor 
and Registrar to consider specific ways in which we can 
support specific prosecutions already under way and all 
of  the  situations  currently  before  the  Court.  We  have 
10 
12-57593
responded positively to a number of informal requests 
for  assistance. We  will  also  continue  to  work  with the 
ICC  to  identify  practical  ways  in  which  we  can  work 
to advance our mutual goals, particularly in areas such 
as  information-sharing  and  witness  protection,  on  a 
case-by-case  basis  and  consistent  with  United  States 
policy  and  laws.  We  look  forward  to  continuing  to 
engage with States parties and non-party States on those 
and  other  shared  issues  of  concern.  The  international 
community  should  remain  committed  to  working 
towards  coordinated  efforts  both  to  prevent  atrocities 
before  they  occur  and  to  provide  accountability  for 
those responsible for atrocities that do happen. 
Although  we  as  an  international  community  have 
made  progress  on  both  fronts,  much  work  remains. 
The  United  States,  as  a  member  of  this  body  and  a 
permanent  member  of  the  Security  Council,  remains 
committed  to  working  in  partnership  with  others 
to  achieve  those  twin  goals.  We  look  forward  to  our 
upcoming  participation  as  an  observer  at  meetings  of 
the ICC’s Assembly of States Parties in The Hague later 
this month.
Mr. Bonifaz (Peru) (spoke in Spanish): I wish to thank 
the President of the International Criminal Court (ICC), 
Judge Sang-Hyun Song, for his interesting presentation 
on the intensive work of the Court from 1 August 2011 to 
31 July 2012.
In  the  year  covered  by  the  report,  there  were 
important developments in the work of the Court. First, 
Guatemala,  Cape  Verde,  Maldives,  the  Philippines 
and  Vanuatu  ratified  the  Rome  Statute,  bringing 
membership to 121 States parties. That is encouraging, 
but numerous States have yet to ratify or accede to the 
Statute. For that reason, Peru calls on those States that 
have yet to do so to ratify or accede to the Statute so that 
it can enjoy truly universal scope and prevent impunity 
for  crimes  of  the  greatest  importance  and  gravity  for 
the entire international community. 
Secondly, 
the 
the  month  of  July  saw 
tenth 
anniversary of the entry into force of the Rome Statute, 
which was a landmark in the history of the Court and the 
fight against impunity. In that regard, I note that on that 
important  anniversary,  the  Union  of  South  American 
Nations issued a statement through which the Ministers 
for Foreign Affairs of its member States reiterated, on 
the  occasion  of  the  anniversary,  their  decided  support 
for the Court and pledged to work to strengthen it.
A/67/PV.32
In  October,  under  Guatemala’s  presidency,  the 
Security  Council  held  an  open  debate  to  address  the 
relationship between the Council and the International 
Criminal Court for the first time (see S/PV.6849). The 
statements  made  during  the  open  debate  allowed  us 
to  identify  important  areas  in  which  we  must  delve 
deeper in order to strengthen the relationship between 
the  Organization  and 
the  International  Criminal 
Court.  Peru  focused  its  statement  on  the  following 
four  points:  the  referrals  of  situations  by  the  Council 
to  the  Prosecutor,  pursuant  to  article  13  (b)  of  the 
Rome  Statute;  the  cooperative  relationship  of  the 
Security  Council  and  Member  States  with  the  Court; 
the  financing  of  referrals;  and  the  amendments  to  the 
Rome  Statute  adopted  in  Kampala  with  regard  to  the 
crime of aggression. As we indicated on that occasion, 
Peru  favours  an  evaluation  of  mechanisms  that  allow 
for a comprehensive follow-up on the matters addressed 
in the open debate. 
We must strengthen cooperation between States and 
the  Court  so  that  the  latter  can  achieve  its  objectives. 
Unfortunately,  the  Court  does  not  always  enjoy  the 
necessary  support  in  the  areas  of  arrest  warrants, 
identification,  freezing  of  assets,  and  the  protection 
of  victims  and  witnesses,  inter  alia.  The  cooperation 
of  States  with  regard  to  arrest  warrants  in  particular 
is  an  obligation  based  on  the  Statute  of  the  Court  and 
the  Charter  of  the  United  Nations,  which  in  the  case 
of  referrals,  is  applicable  to  all  —  and  we  reiterate 
all — States under Chapter VII. 
the  United  Nations  and 
We  must  also  give  full  force  to  the  Relationship 
the 
Agreement  between 
International  Criminal  Courts,  including  budgetary 
matters  related  to  the  referral  of  situations  by  the 
Council. We underscore that the Agreement has allowed 
the  Court  to  undertake  important  work,  disseminate 
its  work  and  raise  the  awareness  of  the  international 
community  with  regard  to  its  importance.  We  trust 
that  cooperation  will  become  ever  closer  and  more 
coordinated.  In  that  way,  the  Court  can  receive  the 
support  of  United  Nations  bodies  and  agencies  in  the 
discharge of its duties. 
The 
International  Criminal  Court  plays  an 
important role in promoting the rule of law, as it is the 
only permanent judicial body tasked with investigating 
and  judging  those  allegedly  responsible  for  the  most 
serious  international  crimes.  Along  those  lines,  the 
recent  Declaration  of  the  High-level  Meeting  of  the 
General  Assembly  on  the  Rule  of  Law  at  the  National 
12-57593
11
A/67/PV.32
and  International  Levels  (resolution  67/1)  recognized 
that  meaningful  role  within  the  multilateral  system 
and underscored the importance of States’ cooperation 
with  the  Court.  Moreover,  many  States  have  made 
significant pledges to supporting the work of the Court. 
It  is  essential  that  States  express  without  ambiguity 
their  decided  diplomatic  support  for  the  fight  against 
impunity.
Lastly,  my  delegation  commends  the  work  of  the 
liaison  office  of  the  International  Criminal  Court  in 
New  York,  which  facilitates  coordination  between  the 
Court  and  the  United  Nations.  We  also  reiterate  our 
willingness  to  cooperate  actively  and  constructively 
with the International Criminal Court. 
Mr. Adi (Syrian Arab Republic) (spoke in Arabic): 
My country participated actively in the United Nations 
Diplomatic  Conference  of  Plenipotentiaries  on  the 
Establishment  of  an  International  Criminal  Court, 
which led to the adoption of the Rome Statute  in 1998. 
We  signed  and  ratified  the  Statute  on  29  November 
2000.
The  Rome  Statute  was  intended  to  help  end 
impunity  for  the  perpetrators  of  crimes  under  the 
Court’s  jurisdication:  war  crimes,  genocide,  crimes 
against  humanity  and  aggression.  In  its  preamble,  the 
Statute affirms 
“the Purposes and Principles of the Charter of the 
United  Nations,  and  in  particular  that  all  States 
shall refrain from the threat or use of force against 
the territorial integrity or political independence of 
any State, or in any other manner inconsistent with 
the Purposes of the United Nations”. 
The preamble also affirms that 
“nothing in this Statute shall be taken as authorizing 
any State Party to intervene in an armed conf lict or 
in the internal affairs of any State”. 
that 
the  Rome  Statute  reaffirms 
Moreover, 
the 
jurisdiction  of  the  Court  is  established  only  when  the 
national judicial system fails to exercise its jurisdiction. 
The Statute also emphasizes the principal and primary 
role  of  national  jurisdiction  in  the  establishment  of 
justice  in  the  territories  and  the  cases  subject  to  its 
mandate. 
I  do  not  believe  that  the  representatives  who 
participated in the Rome Conference thought that what 
they  aspired  to  —  the  codification  of  international 
criminal  legislation  —  would  one  day  be  used  in  the 
service  of  political  and  interventionist  agendas  that 
have  nothing  whatsoever  to  do  with  ending  impunity. 
And I do not believe that those delegations could have 
imagined  at  the  time  that  the  Rome  Statute  would 
one  day  be  used  as  a  vehicle  to  overthrow  systems 
of  Government  or  to  intervene  in  the  internal  affairs 
of  States.  None  of  the  jurists  who  participated  in 
drafting the Rome Statute would have thought that the 
question  of  the  definition  of  the  crime  of  aggression 
would be diluted in the service of the aggressive State 
and that it would be a matter subject to interpretation, 
according  to  the  interests  of  some  inf luential  States 
and their followers. Nor could they have dreamed that 
States  which  carry  out  simultaneously  all  of  those 
crimes that are subject to the jurisdiction of the Court 
would  exclude  themselves  or  would  be  excluded  from 
accountability  and  punishment,  and  that  their  conduct 
would  be  overlooked  out  of  considerations  that  are 
in  total  contradiction  to  the  principles  of  justice  and 
equality. 
It is a source of concern that some would hide behind 
the  idea  of  international  criminal  justice  in  order  to 
implement political agendas that are far removed from 
the  internationally  recognized  legal  standards  and  the 
purposes and principles upon which the United Nations 
was  established.  It  is  also  regrettable  that  some  States 
would mention my country, Syria, in their statements, 
manipulating this forum, this agenda item and this organ 
to distort the facts and make unfounded accusations in 
an attempt to exploit the law and misuse it in the service 
of a crude policy of intervention in the internal affairs 
of other States. We would have hoped that those States 
that claim to care about impunity would themselves be 
guided by a spirit of international criminal justice and 
send an unambiguous and unequivocal message to the 
States and parties behind the crimes being carried out 
in Syria. 
My  country  is  confronting  an  unprecedented 
wave  of  premeditated  terrorism  and  bloody  violence. 
Everybody  knows  the  States  and  the  groups  behind 
those  acts.  We  hear  their  statements  in  the  United 
Nations as they brag about human rights, democracy and 
counter-terrorism.  We  do  not  have  enough  time  today 
to revisit all the details of that wave. The Government 
of  the  Syrian  Arab  Republic  has  repeatedly  explained 
the details of what is happening in my country, as well 
as  the  steps  it  has  taken  to  restore  security,  stability 
and  the  rule  of  law  to  the  troubled  areas.  However, 
I  reaffirm  once  again  that,  in  spite  of  all  that  my 
country  has  faced  —  terrorism,  violence,  public  and 
12 
12-57593
direct  incitement  against  Syria  —  the  Government  of 
Syria  remains  committed  to  implementing  reforms 
and  serious  changes  in  response  to  justified  popular 
demands  in  all  fields,  including  the  legal,  judicial, 
social, political and legislative.
their 
legal  and 
I  assure  the  Assembly  that  the  Syrian  authorities 
are  complying  with  all 
judicial 
responsibilities  in  their  efforts  to  implement  the  law 
and  hold  accountable  all  those  who  have  violated 
it,  regardless  of  their  position  or  title.  The  recently 
established independent judicial commission is carrying 
out  its  work  of  referring  to  national  courts  all  those 
found to have been involved in illegal acts, in order to 
observe  due  process  while  preserving  all  the  rights  of 
the accused and the victims throughout all trial stages.
A/67/PV.32
In  conclusion,  since  this  crisis  began  my  country 
has sought to inform Member States and the Secretariat 
in  detail  about  the  events  taking  place  there.  This  has 
been  done  by  means  of  more  than  220  official  letters 
issued as official United Nations documents, covering 
every  aspect  of  the  crisis  and  the  steps  taken  by  the 
Government, as well as the negative stance assumed by 
some Member States in order to prolong the crisis and 
spread further destruction and terrorism in my country.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker  in  the  debate  on  agenda  item  74.  The  General 
Assembly  has  thus  concluded  its  consideration  of 
agenda item 74.
The meeting rose at 4.35 p.m.
12-57593
13
