United Nations
asdfGeneral Assembly
Sixty-seventh session
24th plenary meeting
A/67/PV.24
Ofﬁ cial Records
Monday, 15 October 2012, 10 a.m.
New York
President: Mr. Jeremić . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 
(Serbia)
The meeting was called to order at 10.20 a.m.
Agenda items 72 and 73
Report of the International Criminal Tribunal 
for the Prosecution of Persons Responsible 
for Genocide and Other Serious Violations of 
International Humanitarian Law Committed 
in the Territory of Rwanda and Rwandan 
Citizens Responsible for Genocide and Other 
Such Violations Committed in the Territory of 
Neighbouring States between 1 January and 
31 December 1994
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the 
seventeenth annual report of the International 
Criminal Tribunal (A/67/253)
Report of the International Tribunal for the 
Prosecution of Persons Responsible for Serious 
Violations of International Humanitarian Law 
Committed in the Territory of the Former 
Yugoslavia since 1991
Note by the Secretary-General transmitting the 
nineteenth annual report of the International 
Tribunal (A/67/214)
The  President:  I  now  give  the  f loor  to  Judge 
Vagn Joensen, President of the International Criminial 
Tribunal for Rwanda.
Mr.  Joensen  (International  Criminal  Tribunal  for 
Rwanda): I would like to start by extending my sincere 
congratulations to you, Sir, on your election as President 
of the Assembly. I wish you a successful term in office.
It is a great honour for me to address the members 
of  the  General  Assembly  for  the  first  time  and  to 
present  the  seventeenth  annual  report  (A/67/253) 
of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda 
(ICTR). I am pleased to report this will be one of the 
last  speeches  the  President  of  the  ICTR  makes  to  the 
General  Assembly  with  respect  to  the  annual  report, 
as  we  are  rapidly  approaching  the  conclusion  of  our 
mandate.
It is my pleasure to report that we have accomplished 
a  great  deal  towards  the  completion  of  our  work  over 
the  past  year.  We  remain  on  schedule  for  delivery  of 
the final remaining trial judgement by the end of this 
year and completion of all appeals by the end of 2014. 
Since  last  year’s  report  to  the  Assembly  (A/66/209), 
the Tribunal has undergone a significant shift in focus 
with  respect  to  judicial  and  administrative  activities 
alike.  Judicial  and  legal  activity  has  become  more 
focused  on  requests  for  referral  of  cases  to  Rwanda, 
and administrative energies are increasingly spent on 
downsizing and providing support to the Arusha branch 
of the International Residual Mechanism for Criminal 
Tribunals,  which  began  its  work  in  July.  However, 
none  of  this  has  taken  away  from  the  nucleus  of  our 
work — completing all trial and appellate proceedings 
in a fair and expeditious manner.
During 
the 
reporting  period 
from  1  July 
2011 to 30 June 2012, the Tribunal rendered five trial 
judgements  and  seven  appeals  judgements,  involving 
a  total  of  17  accused.  As  of  today,  the  total  number 
of  people  whose  judgements  have  been  completed  at 
the  trial  level  is  74  and  the  total  number  of  persons 
This record contains the text of speeches delivered in English and of the interpretation of 
speeches delivered in the other languages. Corrections should be submitted to the original 
languages only. They should be incorporated in a copy of the record and sent under the signature 
of a member of the delegation concerned to the Chief of the Verbatim Reporting Service, room 
U-506. Corrections will be issued after the end of the session in a consolidated corrigendum.
12-54716 (E)
*1254716*
A/67/PV.24
whose  cases  have  been  completed  at  the  appellate 
level  is  44.  In  September  2011,  the  Tribunal  rendered 
the  second-to-last  multi-accused  judgement  in  the 
case  of  Bizimungu  et  al.  with  respect  to  four  accused, 
and  in  December  2011  the  final  multi-accused  trial 
judgement  was  delivered  in  the  Karemera  et  al.  case. 
This  marked  the  most  expeditious  judgement  delivery 
in a multi-accused case, demonstrating that the efforts 
to improve efficiency begun by President Byron several 
years ago have had a positive impact on the Tribunal’s 
completion  strategy,  without  compromising  fair  trial 
rights.
Additionally,  in  December  2011,  the  Appeals 
Chamber  upheld  the  first  decision  to  refer  an  ICTR 
case  to  Rwanda  for  trial.  After  the  arrangements  for 
monitoring  the  trial  in  Rwanda  were  established,  Jean 
Uwinkindi  was  transferred  to  Rwanda  in  April  2012, 
where  he  is  currently  awaiting  the  commencement  of 
his trial. The Tribunal will monitor the Uwinkindi trial 
closely, and continues to offer ongoing capacity-building 
support to further strengthen the Rwandan judiciary, in 
particular with respect to witness protection.
A second decision to refer an accused in the custody 
of  the  Tribunal  was  rendered  by  the  Trial  Chamber 
in  June  with  respect  to  Bernard  Munyagishari.  The 
decision  to  refer  the  case  to  Rwanda  is  currently 
under  appeal.  We  anticipate  that  the  appeals  decision 
on  the  Munyagishari  referral  will  be  rendered  before 
the  end  of  the  year,  as  will  the  final  remaining  trial 
judgement  in  the  Ngirabatware  case.  I  note  that  any 
appeal in the Ngirabatware case would be handled by 
the Mechanism, as the deadline for appeals to be filed 
with the ICTR was 30 June, and that we remain on track 
to complete the current pending appeals by the end of 
2014.
It must also be noted that the responsibility for two 
pending contempt of court/false testimony cases, where 
indictments have already been confirmed, remains with 
the ICTR. This means that it could be necessary to call 
ad  litem  judges  from  the  roster  in  order  to  constitute 
benches  for  these  contempt  trials  in  the  event  that 
arrests  are  made.  It  is  anticipated  that  any  contempt 
trial  could  be  concluded  approximately  one  year  from 
the time of arrest and transfer to the ICTR.
We would not be at such an advanced stage without 
the  efforts  of  our  entire  staff,  and  their  contributions 
have not gone unnoticed. The 11 permanent judges and 
three ad litem judges who work in the Trial and Appeals 
Chambers  continue  to  work  tirelessly  to  complete  the 
Tribunal’s work. On 29 June of this year, the Security 
Council  adopted  resolution  2054  (2012),  permitting 
three  of  my  fellow  judges  and  me  to  serve  beyond  the 
expiry  of  our  terms  of  office  to  fulfil  the  completion 
strategy. At this time, I would like to thank the Security 
Council for making these extensions possible, and our 
judges  for  their  dedication  and  willingness  to  remain 
with the Tribunal in order to complete their work.
I would like to take this opportunity to congratulate 
ICTR Prosecutor Hassan Jallow, who was appointed by 
the  Secretary-General  earlier  this  year  as  Prosecutor 
of  the  Mechanism.  Mr.  Jallow  will  also  continue 
serving as Prosecutor of the ICTR and has been making 
tremendous efforts to facilitate the transfer of cases to 
the Mechanism.
Fugitive tracking is at the core of the Prosecutor’s 
remaining  work  in  his  role  in  the  Mechanism.  There 
are  still  nine  fugitives  at  large  who  were  indicted  by 
the  ICTR.  None,  however,  will  be  tried  by  the  ICTR. 
Three of the fugitives are considered by the Prosecutor 
to  be  among  those  most  responsible  for  the  planning 
and  execution  of  the  genocide,  and  he  has  therefore 
determined  that  their  cases  should  remain  before 
an  international  tribunal.  Félicien  Kabuga,  Protais 
Mpiranya  and  Augustin  Bizimana  will  stand  trial 
before  the  Mechanism  when  they  are  arrested.  The 
preservation  of  evidence  proceedings  under  rule  71 
bis  was  completed  for  all  three  during  the  reporting 
period  to  help  ensure  that  evidence  is  still  available 
when  those  high-ranking  fugitives  are  arrested.  The 
cases of the remaining six fugitives have been referred 
to Rwanda, and the Office of the Prosecutor has worked 
closely  with  the  Rwandan  Prosecutor-General  to  hand 
over case files and share information.
I  would  now  like  to  take  a  moment  to  express  my 
congratulations to both the Registrar and the President 
of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former 
Yugoslavia  (ICTY),  who  were  appointed  earlier  this 
year  to  double-hat  in  their  respective  positions  in 
the  Mechanism.  I  would  also  like  to  commend  the 
former  ICTR  Registrar,  Mr.  Adama  Dieng,  who  after 
over  a  decade  of  service  with  the  ICTR,  was  recently 
appointed Special Adviser to the Secretary-General on 
the  Prevention  of  Genocide.  I  congratulate  Mr.  Dieng 
on this well-deserved career achievement, and applaud 
the Secretary-General on his choice for Special Adviser. 
Mr.  Dieng  is  eminently  qualified  for  the  position  of 
Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide, and the 
ICTR looks forward to working closely with him where 
2 
12-54716
opportunities arise to combine our efforts in the battle 
against impunity.
I  would  also  like  to  thank  Mr.  Dieng  for  all  that 
he  and  his  staff  have  done  to  assist  with  making 
practical  arrangements  for  the  coordinated  provision 
of administrative and other services to the Mechanism, 
in  line  with  Security  Council  resolution  1966  (2010), 
and  for  his  continued  work  with  Member  States  on  a 
number  of  matters,  including  various  cooperation 
issues, enforcement of sentences, and the relocation of 
persons acquitted by the tribunals and those who have 
finished serving their sentences.
information 
sensitivity, 
In  terms  of  preparing  the  Tribunal’s  records  for 
transfer to the Mechanism, we would like to thank the 
ICTR  Archives  and  Records  Management  Working 
Group for all of its hard work throughout this process. 
We also thank those offices with which they have worked 
closely  to  develop  the  recently  published  Secretary-
General’s  bulletin  entitled  “International  Criminal 
Tribunals: 
classification, 
handling,  and  access”  (ST/SGB/2012/3)  to  the  records 
of 
the 
Mechanism,  the  ICTY,  the  Office  of  Legal  Affairs 
(OLA),  and  the  Archives  and  Records  Management 
Section  of  the  Department  of  Management.  During 
the reporting period, the ICTR and ICTY also worked 
closely  with  OLA  to  develop  the  Rules  of  Procedure 
and Evidence of the Residual Mechanism, leading to its 
publication this past June.
the  Tribunals  and  Mechanism, 
including 
Next, I turn to the future. We are very grateful to 
the  Secretary-General  for  his  prompt  appointment  of 
Mr. Pascal Besnier, former Acting Deputy Registrar of 
the  Tribunal,  as  the  Acting  Registrar,  and  would  like 
to  congratulate  Mr.  Besnier  on  his  appointment.  The 
quick action of the Secretary-General in the matter has 
ensured  that  the  ICTR  Registry  will  have  a  seamless 
transition  of  leadership  throughout  the  interim  period 
until the recruitment process for a new Registrar has been 
completed.  A  great  deal  of  work  awaits  the  incoming 
Registrar  in  terms  of  downsizing  and  providing 
support to the Mechanism in order to facilitate transfer 
of  functions  from  the  ICTR  to  the  Mechanism.  The 
Tribunal  is  thankful  to  have  Mr.  Besnier  undertaking 
that process until a new Registrar is appointed.
I now turn to an issue that has been at the forefront 
of problems facing the Tribunal in recent years, and it 
is  one  that  will  continue  to  plague  us  in  the  future  if 
action  is  not  taken.  Following  the  trial  judgement  last 
year  in  the  Bizimungu  et  al.  case,  there  are  now  five 
A/67/PV.24
acquitted  persons  for  whom  the  Tribunal  is  obliged 
to  provide  protection  in  Arusha.  Acquitted  persons  at 
present reside in a safe house, without travel documents, 
separated from their families, with limited freedom of 
movement, and not permitted access to employment. 
The rule of law requires that those who have been 
lawfully acquitted be able to recommence their lives in 
full enjoyment of their rights, yet there are individuals 
who  have  now  been  residing  at  the  safe  house  far 
beyond a reasonable period of time. One such acquitted 
person has now been there for over six years. Without 
the support of Member States to accept the individuals, 
it  is  impossible  to  predict  how  much  longer  they  may 
remain stranded in Arusha. I therefore reiterate the pleas 
of  my  two  predecessors  for  the  renewed  cooperation 
of  Member  States  to  implement  a  strategy  that  would 
make relocations possible.
I  will  now  conclude  with  some  thoughts  on  the 
legacy  of  the  Tribunal.  This  year,  the  downsizing 
process  that  began  in  2008  to  2009  continued  with 
approximately 100 staff being separated since January. 
As our last staff members leave, we lose our collective 
experience and memory. If it is not captured now, it will 
be  very  difficult  to  retrieve  in  the  future.  Therefore, 
the ICTR has engaged in several outreach activities as 
a  means  of  collecting  and  sharing  the  most  important 
aspects of the work of the Tribunal before it closes its 
doors.  The  ICTR  Legacy  Committee,  combined  with 
Tribunal-wide efforts, continues to work vigorously to 
preserve records. The legacy team of the Office of the 
Prosecutor continues apace and is at an advanced stage 
of completion of its legacy projects. 
legal  professionals 
Over  the  past  year,  ICTR  legacy  projects  have 
included  involvement  in  the  youth  sensitization  and 
genocide protection project in the Great Lakes region, 
as well as capacity-building activities for approximately 
100 
in  Rwanda.  Additionally, 
throughout the current downsizing phase, the Tribunal 
has  attracted  a  higher  number  of  visitors,  and  more 
than 500,000 individuals visited the Tribunal’s website 
during this reporting period alone. If resources are not 
allocated  to  preserve  our  legacy,  we  will  be  in  danger 
of losing the lessons learned by an institution that has 
helped  to  shape  international  law.  We  hope  that  the 
General Assembly will continue to support our efforts 
to preserve our legacy through those projects.
On behalf of the entire Tribunal, I wish to express 
our  gratitude  for  the  support  that  the  Governments 
of  Member  States  have  shown  over  the  past  18  years. 
12-54716
3
A/67/PV.24
Member States have continuously assisted the Tribunal 
by  arresting  accused  persons,  providing  facilities 
for  incarcerating  convicted  persons,  demonstrating 
an  outstanding  willingness  to  facilitate  the  transfer 
of  witnesses  from  their  territories,  and  by  making 
voluntary  donations  of  financial  and  other  assistance. 
Over  70  nationalities  are  represented  at  the  Tribunal, 
and  we  cannot  overemphasize  how  great  a  role 
Member  States  and  each  Tribunal  staff  member  have 
played  throughout  these  18  years.  As  our  work  nears 
conclusion,  I  must  say  that  it  is  an  honour  to  be  part 
of  the  Tribunal,  and  it  has  been  a  great  pleasure  and 
honour addressing the General Assembly today.
The  President:  I  call  on  Judge  Theodor  Meron, 
President  of  the  International  Tribunal  for  the  Former 
Yugoslavia.
Judge  Meron  (International  Tribunal  for  the 
Former  Yugoslavia):  It  is  an  honour  for  me  to  be  here 
today to present the Tribunal’s nineteenth annual report 
to  the  General  Assembly  (A/67/214).  Mr.  President,  I 
would also like to take this moment to congratulate you 
on  your  assumption  of  the  presidency  of  the  General 
Assembly.
As  members  of  the  Assembly  may  be  aware,  this 
is  my  second  term  as  President  of  the  International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY), 
my first having been in the years 2003 to 2005. With my 
new term come the same obligations to the international 
community  that  were  present  with  the  first.  Chief 
among  them  is  the  need  to  expeditiously  complete  the 
mandate of the Tribunal while according full respect to 
the due process rights of the accused and due regard to 
the protection of victims and witnesses.
As  will  be  known  from  my  report,  the  Tribunal 
is  very  close  to  the  completion  of  its  mandate,  and 
all  efforts  are  being  expended  to  ensure  the  orderly 
completion of the Tribunal’s work within the timelines 
set  by  the  Security  Council.  But,  as  the  international 
community has learned over the years, the international 
criminal  trial  process  is  inevitably  subject  to  the 
vagaries  common  to  all  criminal  law  proceedings, 
such  as  late  disclosures  of  exculpatory  material.  Our 
trials are further complicated, however, by the inherent 
complexity  of 
international  criminal  proceedings, 
including  the  geographical  scope  of  the  underlying 
allegations,  the  number  of  incidents  charged,  and  the 
fact that the trials are conducted far from the territory 
on which the crimes were committed. 
Unforeseen  circumstances  also  arise  that  have  an 
impact  on  the  expeditious  conduct  of  both  trials  and 
appeals, such as the illness of an accused, the death of 
counsel,  delays  caused  by  the  right  of  the  accused  to 
have materials translated into his or her own language, 
and  delays  in  State  cooperation  or  in  the  securing  of 
witnesses.  In  addition,  the  progress  of  cases  may  be 
adversely  impacted  by  the  loss  of  experienced  and 
talented  Tribunal  staff  in  Chambers,  as  well  as  by 
the  commitments  of  judges  and  staff  alike  to  other, 
simultaneous  proceedings,  including  trials  for  core 
crimes and trials for contempt.
These  factors  create  myriad  challenges  for  the 
Tribunal  and  underscore  the  fact  that  predicting  the 
length of proceedings at the Tribunal is, at best, an art 
and  not  a  science.  Despite  these  challenges,  however, 
the  Tribunal  remains  steadfast  in  its  commitment  to 
satisfying  the  desire  of  the  international  community 
that  the  Tribunal  bring  its  proceedings  to  a  close,  and 
my  colleagues  and  I  continue  to  seek  out  new  and 
innovative  means  to  increase  our  efficiency  without 
sacrificing our commitment to quality and due process.
We  are  already  making  tremendous  progress. 
Within the next 12 months, it is anticipated that all trials, 
other  than  those  of  the  recently  arrested  accused,  will 
be completed, and the bulk of the Tribunal’s work will 
be on appeals. Most of those appeals will be completed 
by the Appeals Chamber by December 2014; others will 
fall  to  the  competence  of  the  International  Residual 
Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals  —  now  known 
simply  as  the  Mechanism  for  International  Criminal 
Tribunals  —  which  is  the  institution  established  by 
the Security Council to assume responsibility for core 
functions of the ICTY and the International Criminial 
Tribunal  for  Rwanda,  as  those  first  two  pioneering 
institutions  bring  their  work  to  a  close.  The  Arusha 
branch  of  the  Mechanism  commenced  operations  on 
1  July  2012,  in  full  conformity  with  Security  Council 
resolution 1966 (2010), and I expect that the launch of 
The  Hague  branch  of  the  Mechanism  on  1  July  2013 
will go just as smoothly.
As  I  noted  at  the  outset,  this  is  the  Tribunal’s 
nineteenth annual report to the General Assembly, and 
next May we will celebrate 20 years since the Security 
Council took the vitally important step of establishing 
the  ICTY.  In  the  light  of  this  milestone,  I  think  it 
only  fitting  to  focus  for  a  moment  on  the  remarkable 
achievements  of  the  Tribunal  during  the  intervening 
years — achievements that have not only contributed to 
4 
12-54716
bringing peace and reconciliation to the countries of the 
former Yugoslavia, but have resonated far beyond that 
region,  leading  to  the  creation  of  other  international 
courts  and  tribunals  and  forging  a  new  international 
culture of accountability.
I need not remind the Assembly that following the 
closure of the Nuremberg and Tokyo tribunals after the 
Second  World  War,  the  idea  of  international  criminal 
justice  —  of  holding  those  who  are  alleged  to  have 
committed  the  worst  of  crimes  accountable  —  was 
all  but  forgotten.  With  the  creation  of  the  Tribunal  in 
1993,  however,  came  a  new  awakening.  Admittedly, 
when  it  was  first  established,  the  Tribunal  was  little 
more  than  an  ideal  —  an  expression  of  the  outrage  of 
the international community at the atrocities that were 
being  broadcast  on  television  screens  as  the  conf lict 
raged  throughout  the  former  Yugoslavia.  At  the  time, 
there  was  little  real  faith  or  real  comprehension  about 
what the Tribunal could actually achieve as a measure 
to bring justice or even restore peace. It was just hoped 
that the Tribunal could do something.
From its very first trial, the Tribunal demonstrated 
to  the  international  community  that  it  could  do  much 
more.  In  judgement  after  judgement,  the  Tribunal 
not  only  patiently  and  painstakingly  considered  the 
evidence  and  testimony  concerning  crimes  alleged  to 
have  occurred  during  some  of  the  worst  conf licts  in 
a  generation;  it  also  breathed  life  into  laws  that  had 
hitherto rarely been applied, and began the vital process 
of elucidating and defining the contours of international 
humanitarian  law,  all  the  while  paying  full  respect  to 
the rights of the accused and the principle of legality.
Indeed,  from  the  very  beginning,  the  Tribunal 
made great strides in articulating a coherent and robust 
body of customary international humanitarian law and 
great  advancements,  particularly  in  relation  to  crimes 
of  a  sexual  nature,  which  had  been  predominately 
untouched  by  its  Second  World  War  predecessors. 
Through its judgements, the Tribunal clarified that the 
crime of rape could also constitute the crime of torture 
and  the  crime  of  genocide.  The  Tribunal  determined 
that  lack  of  evidence  of  resistance  to  a  sexual  crime 
could not be the basis to infer consent during times of 
armed  conf lict,  and  that  the  uncorroborated  evidence 
of a single witness, if found reliable and credible, could 
be sufficient to support a conviction for rape. In doing 
so,  the  Tribunal  led  the  way  for  a  new  focus  by  the 
international  community  on  crimes  of  sexual  violence 
during  armed  conf lict,  and  motivated  the  United 
A/67/PV.24
Nations  to  take  action  in  support  of  women  and  other 
victims the world over.
In  addition,  the  Tribunal  led  the  way  in  finding 
that  State  immunity  is  not  a  bar  to  prosecution  in  an 
international  tribunal  —  a  finding  confirmed  by  the 
International  Court  of  Justice  in  the  Arrest  Warrant 
case.  The  rulings  of  the  Tribunal  helped  to  make  it 
possible for other courts, such as the Special Court for 
Sierra  Leone,  to  bring  charges  against  former  Heads 
of  State  and  other  key  leaders,  and  for  adoption  of  a 
provision  in  the  Statute  of  the  International  Criminal 
Court  removing  the  protection  of  immunity  for  Heads 
of State.
The Tribunal has also played a fundamental role in 
highlighting the dissolution of the traditional distinction 
between laws applicable to international armed conf lict 
and  those  applicable  to  internal  armed  conf lict.  The 
Tribunal  found  that  the  same  rules  could  and  should 
be  applied  to  both  international  and  non-international 
conf licts,  and 
that  civilians  everywhere  were 
entitled  to  the  same  protections  no  matter  the  legal 
characterization  of  an  armed  conf lict.  The  Tribunal 
also  clarified  what  it  meant  to  be  a  protected  person 
under the Geneva Conventions, finding that allegiance 
and  effective  protection  were  the  guiding  criteria  and 
not  nationality  —  a  factor  that  offered  no  protection 
where inter-ethnic violence was concerned.
However,  the  Tribunal’s  achievements  are  not 
limited  to  substantive  law.  Indeed,  the  ICTY  has 
also  made  extremely  significant  contributions 
to 
international criminal procedural and evidentiary law. 
The Tribunal has successfully moulded the best aspects 
of  adversarial  and  civil  law  procedures,  creating  an 
international body of procedural law that provides not 
just  for  expeditious  trials,  but  for  trials  that  are  also 
consistent  with  the  highest  international  standards 
of  due  process  and  accord  due  respect  to  the  human 
dignity  of  the  accused.  It  is  telling  that  the  Tribunal’s 
Rules of Procedure and Evidence have formed the basis 
of  the  rules  of  procedure  and  evidence  adopted  by 
international criminal courts that followed.
At  the  same  time,  the  Tribunal  has  also  had  a 
profound  impact  on  the  development  of  the  legal 
systems of the countries of the former Yugoslavia, and 
has  made  great  contributions  to  the  capacity  of  those 
countries to take ownership of cases involving alleged 
atrocities on their territories and to bring to justice those 
who remain to be prosecuted. Among other things, the 
Tribunal  assisted  in  the  establishment  of  the  Special 
12-54716
5
A/67/PV.24
War Crimes Chamber in Bosnia; shared its experience 
and  expertise  with  judges  from  Serbia,  Croatia,  and 
Bosnia;  and  demonstrated  its  faith  in  the  professional 
competence  of  its  counterparts  in  the  region  through 
the transfer of its lower- and intermediate-level accused 
for prosecution.
impunity for serious international crimes. The European 
Union  and  its  member  States  thank  both  President 
Meron  and  President  Joensen  for  their  briefings  and 
commend them for their efforts in completing the work 
of the Tribunals. We also pay special tribute to the work 
of all the staff of the Tribunals.
In sum, the Tribunal has truly been a success story. 
But  if  I  have  referred  today  to  the  Tribunal’s  many 
accomplishments,  it  is  equally  clear  to  me  that  these 
are truly the achievements of all States Members of the 
United Nations as well. Without the substantial support 
that  Member  States  have  long  afforded  the  Tribunal, 
none  of  what  we  have  accomplished  would  have  been 
possible. Because of their cooperation and commitment, 
the  Tribunal  and  the  success  of  its  work  over  the 
past  two  decades  have  had  a  profound  impact  on  the 
landscape  of  international  criminal  justice.  So  while 
the international community understandably wishes to 
bring  the  Tribunal’s  work  to  a  close  as  expeditiously 
as  possible,  I  hope  that  its  members  will  also  ref lect, 
with  justifiable  pride,  upon  the  extraordinary  benefits 
that  have  accrued  from  the  international  community’s 
initial investment in the Tribunal and from their support 
in the years that followed. 
Over  the  course  of  the  nearly  two  decades  of  its 
existence,  the  Tribunal  has  established  the  feasibility 
and  enforceability  of  international  criminal  justice, 
blazed  the  trail  for  a  host  of  new  international  courts 
and  tribunals  and  pioneered  the  framework  of  what 
is  effectively  a  new  world  order,  in  which  all  alleged 
perpetrators of gross violations of humanitarian norms 
and  human  rights  in  times  of  armed  conf lict  may  be 
held  responsible  for  their  actions,  and  in  which  the 
question  is  not  if,  but  when  and  where  they  will  be 
called to account. I congratulate my fellow colleagues 
on that accomplishment, and extend my deepest thanks 
for their abiding faith in our work.
The President: I now give the f loor to the observer 
of the European Union.
Mr. Vrailas (European Union): I have the honour to 
speak on behalf of the European Union and its member 
States.
This  year  once  again,  the  European  Union  and  its 
member  States  reaffirm  their  unwavering  support  for 
the  work  of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for 
Rwanda  (ICTR)  and  the  International  Tribunal  for  the 
Former Yugoslavia (ICTY). Both Tribunals are making 
invaluable  contributions  to  our  shared  goal  of  ending 
roles 
The  Tribunals  have  played  key 
in 
strengthening  the  rule  of  law  and  promoting  long-
term  stability  and  reconciliation  —  and  not  only  in 
the  Balkans  and  Rwanda.  Their  jurisprudence  has 
had  far  wider  effects.  Since  their  establishment,  both 
Tribunals  have  embodied  the  need  to  fight  impunity 
and the refusal of the international community to let the 
perpetrators of the most serious crimes of international 
concern  escape  justice.  They  were  forerunners  in 
creating  jurisprudence  that  is  a  source  of  inspiration 
to  all  national  and  international  jurisdictions  that  are 
addressing and will have to address such crimes. Their 
record bears that out.
International  criminal  justice  does  exist  now 
with  the  permanent  International  Criminal  Court;  it 
prevails,  and  sooner  or  later,  the  perpetrators  will  be 
held accountable for their crimes. The arrests and swift 
transfers  to  The  Hague  of  the  long-sought  fugitives 
Ratko  Mladić  and  Goran  Hadžić  demonstrated  that. 
Their trials, as in all of the other cases ongoing before 
the  Courts,  will  fulfil  the  duty  to  provide  justice  for 
the  victims  and  their  families.  We  recall  that  States’ 
cooperation  remains  the  cornerstone  of  the  Tribunals’ 
ability 
in  particular 
cooperation in bringing those indicted before justice. 
their  mandate, 
to  complete 
With  respect  to  the  ICTR,  we  recall  that  despite 
the continuing appeals of the international community, 
nine  accused  individuals  remain  at  large.  The  failure 
to  arrest  those  indictees  remains  a  matter  of  grave 
concern.  Among  those  still  at  large  are  three  key 
indictees  allegedly  responsible  for  the  most  serious 
atrocities,  including  Félicien  Kabuga.  We  call  on  all 
States concerned to intensify their efforts to ensure that 
all indictees are arrested and surrendered to the ICTR.
We note that the cooperation of Serbia, Croatia and 
Bosnia and Herzegovina with the ICTY was generally 
adequate during the reporting period, which saw Serbia 
in  particular  meet  one  of  its  key  obligations  with  the 
apprehension  of  Goran  Hadžić,  the  final  indictee  to 
be  tried  before  the  Tribunal.  The  countries  remain 
committed to meeting their obligations to the Tribunal 
and justice. Completing the process of rendering justice 
for crimes committed during the conf licts in the former 
6 
12-54716
is  essential  for 
Yugoslavia 
lasting  reconciliation. 
Full  cooperation  with  the  ICTY  remains  an  essential 
condition for the Stabilization and Association Process 
in the western Balkans, and is an essential condition for 
membership of the European Union.
Mr. Momen (Bangladesh), Vice-President, took the 
Chair.
The  European  Union  and  its  Member  States  also 
call  upon  the  Governments  concerned  to  pursue  with 
greater vigour the proper conduct of domestic war crime 
trials.  Political  leaders  should  avoid  statements  and 
measures  that  could  call  into  question  the  importance 
of reconciliation and the need to serve justice through 
the prosecution of war crimes. We continue to urge all 
States to cooperate with both Tribunals in full adherence 
to their obligations under the relevant Security Council 
resolutions.
With  regard  to  the  ICTR,  the  European  Union 
and  its  member  States  note  with  appreciation  that  the 
Prosecutor has intensified efforts to track the remaining 
fugitives,  and  in  this  regard  has  sought  support  from 
regional organizations in eastern and southern Africa. 
We also note that active consultations with INTERPOL 
and with Member States elsewhere have also assisted in 
narrowing  the  search  for  the  three  top-level  fugitives. 
Cooperation  with  States  is  needed  to  ensure  that  the 
fugitives are apprehended.
In  recognition  of  strengthened  domestic  capacity, 
the Security Council in its resolutions 1503 (2003) and 
1534  (2004)  called  on  the  ICTY  and  ICTR  to  transfer 
all lower- and mid-level accused to competent national 
jurisdictions for trial by domestic courts. We welcome 
the  ongoing  efforts  of  Rwanda,  in  cooperation  with 
international  donors,  to  strengthen  the  Rwandan  legal 
system  and  its  ability  to  adjudicate  cases  from  the 
ICTR. 
The European Union and its member States confirm 
their  commitment  to  supporting  activities  aimed  at 
strengthening  the  capacity  of  the  Rwandan  judiciary. 
We  note  with  appreciation  that  the  Prosecutor  of  the 
ICTR  has  completed  the  preparation  of  the  case  files 
for  the  fugitives  earmarked  for  transfer  to  national 
jurisdictions, and that the Office of the Prosecutor has 
handed over the completed dossiers in order to facilitate 
their  early  indictment,  trial  and  judgement  before  the 
Rwandan High Court.
We  welcome 
the  Tribunals  on 
strengthening  the  capacity  of  national  authorities  to 
the  work  of 
A/67/PV.24
handle  the  remaining  war  crime  cases  effectively.  We 
fully support — including with financial means — the 
training  and  information  exchanges,  as  well  as  the 
access  to  publicly  available  investigating  material  and 
evidence  from  the  Tribunals.  This  is  important  for 
the  Tribunal’s  legacy  and  for  the  domestic  capacity 
to  adjudicate  war  crimes.  In  its  Stabilization  and 
Association  Process  for  the  Western  Balkans,  the 
European  Union 
the 
importance of local ownership for handling war crime 
cases in line with the need to fight impunity.
increasingly  underlining 
is 
The European Union and its member States further 
welcome the launch on 2 July of the Arusha branch of 
the  International  Residual  Mechanism  for  Criminal 
Tribunals, pursuant to Security Council resolution 1966 
(2010) of 22 December 2010, following the election on 
20  December  2011  of  a  roster  of  25  judges  who  will 
serve the Mechanism and form its core. 
In  its  first  decision  of  5  October,  the  Appeals 
Chamber  of  the  Mechanism  upheld  a  decision  by  the 
ICTR to transfer a case to the Republic of Rwanda for 
trial proceedings. In reaching its decision, the Appeals 
Chamber stated that the Mechanism’s statute and Rules 
of Procedure and Evidence ref lect normative continuity 
with  those  of  the  ICTY  and  ICTR.  According  to  the 
Appeals  Chamber,  these  parallels  are  not  simply  a 
matter of convenience or efficiency, but serve to uphold 
principles  of  due  process  and  fundamental  fairness, 
which  are  the  cornerstone  of  international  justice.  We 
look forward to the establishment of the ICTY branch 
of the Mechanism, which is foreseen on 1 July 2013.
Finally,  we  welcome  the  steps  taken  by  the 
Tribunals in terms of capacity-building, dissemination 
of  information  and  legacy.  We  note  in  particular  the 
Conference  hosted  by  the  ICTY  in  November  2011  on 
the global legacy of the Tribunal, and that efforts have 
been deployed towards creating information centres in 
the  region  of  the  former  Yugoslavia.  We  also  note  the 
workshops,  legal  trainings  and  exhibitions  organized 
by  the  ICTR.  It  is  important  that  knowledge  gained 
and  lessons  learned  in  the  fight  against  impunity  not 
be forgotten.
Mr. Kumar (India): I am honoured to speak before 
the  General  Assembly.  At  the  outset,  I  thank  Judge 
Meron,  President  of  the  International  Tribunal  for 
the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY),  and  Judge  Joensen, 
President  of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for 
Rwanda  (ICTR),  for  their  excellent  presentations, 
12-54716
7
A/67/PV.24
and  congratulate  them  on  expediting  the  work  of  the 
Tribunals.
accused have been referred to Rwanda. It is important 
that all trials be on track and completed by end 2012.
India 
is  committed 
to  global  peace  and 
to 
upholding human rights, and is steadfast in its support 
for  counter-terrorism.  India  welcomes  the  progress 
made  by  the  two  Tribunals  in  implementing  their 
completion  strategy.  We  are  happy  that  all  organs  of 
the Tribunals are ensuring their best efforts to complete 
their  work  expeditiously  and  to  prepare  for  a  smooth 
transition to the International Residual Mechanism for 
Criminal  Tribunals.  We  are  also  pleased  to  note  that 
while focusing on their goal of completing their judicial 
proceedings  as  soon  as  possible  through  intense  trial, 
referral  and  appeals  activity  and  judgement  drafting, 
the two Tribunals were equally mindful that due process 
not be sacrificed.
It  is  very  reassuring  that  the  preparations  for 
the  commencement  of  the  Mechanism  are  on  track, 
including  the  development  of  a  budget  proposal  for 
the  biennium  2012-2013  and  the  Rules  of  Procedure 
and  Evidence  for  the  Mechanism.  We  welcome  the 
opening of the Arusha branch of the Mechanism, which 
started  its  operations  on  1  July.  We  are  confident  that 
the  Mechanism  will  make  good  progress  under  the 
leadership of Judge Meron, who is also double-hatting 
as the Mechanism’s President.
We  appreciate  the  close  cooperation  between  the 
two Tribunals and the Security Council. We are happy 
to note that the recommendations made by the Security 
Council  pursuant  to  the  request  of  the  Tribunals, 
including on hiring and retaining qualified interns and 
other issues, has brought tangible results and helped the 
Tribunals  progress  faster  towards  the  implementation 
of  the  completion  strategy  and  the  launch  of  the 
Mechanism.
We  appreciate  the  untiring  efforts  made  by  Judge 
Meron, who has adopted a variety of reforms to improve 
the functioning of various sections of the Tribunal. As a 
result, the trials of Mladić, Hadžić and Karadžić could 
be  advanced  many  months  ahead  of  their  expected 
schedule.  Similarly,  appeals  in  some  cases  were 
advanced significantly ahead of their schedule. This is 
a very positive sign, and we congratulate Judge Meron 
on this welcome development.
We  are  also  happy  to  note  that  the  ICTR  has 
completed work at the trial level. The Appeals Chamber 
upheld  the  decision  to  refer  the  first  ICTR  case  to 
Rwanda  for  trial,  and  a  further  six  cases  of  fugitive 
It is critical to help the Tribunals finish their work 
on  time.  We  listened  very  carefully  to  the  concerns 
raised by the Presidents of the two Tribunals in relation 
to  their  ability  to  keep  pace  with  their  work  while 
adhering  to  the  expected  timelines  until  the  close  of 
business.  The  Judges  have  pointed  out  that  trials  and 
appeals  continue  to  be  affected  by  staffing  shortages 
and the loss of highly efficient staff members. We share 
the concerns expressed by the Judges, especially on the 
need for retaining adequate and experienced staff. 
The Judges also raised the issue of the relocation of 
acquitted  persons  and  those  who  have  already  served 
their  sentences.  Some  of  them  have  been  living  in 
safe  homes  in  Arusha  for  the  past  five  years.  This  is 
an  important  humanitarian  issue  and  requires  careful 
consideration. We urge the Secretariat and the Security 
Council to give careful consideration to the suggestions 
made  by  the  Judges  on  how  to  address  this  challenge. 
This is a practical issue that requires the consideration 
of  pragmatic  and  innovative  solutions,  and  we  stand 
ready  to  work  with  other  members  of  the  Council  to 
solve this problem.
We  also  commend  the  efforts  of  the  Prosecutors 
of the two Tribunals to undertake outreach initiatives, 
including training aimed at strengthening the capacity 
of national systems to handle referred cases effectively. 
We  would  like  to  see  the  legacy  of  the  Tribunals 
preserved.  We  agree  with  Judge  Joensen’s  conclusion 
that the Tribunals’ impact will not only be challenging 
impunity,  but  also  helping  to  improve  the  means  to 
dispense justice for an entire region.
The  cooperation  of  all  concerned  States  is  vital 
to  ensuring  the  completion  of  the  mandates  of  the 
Tribunals  and  the  successful  implementation  of  the 
completion  strategy.  We  appreciate  Serbia’s  sustained 
efforts in that regard and request other States to extend 
effective  cooperation  so  that  the  remaining  fugitives 
can be located soon and surrendered to end impunity.
We  also  note  with  satisfaction  the  progress  made 
in  the  implementation  of  the  International  Residual 
Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals.  Any  functional, 
operational or institutional issue in the implementation 
of  the  completion  strategy  or  the  Mechanism  may  be 
addressed  by  the  Council,  in  consultation  with  its 
Informal  Working  Group  on  International  Tribunals 
and with the assistance of the Office of Legal Affairs.
8 
12-54716
We  believe  that  the  two  Tribunals  have  admirably 
implemented  their  mandates.  We  consider  the  support 
of  the  Security  Council  to  be  crucial  at  this  critical 
juncture in the life of the Tribunals. At the same time, 
we urge both Tribunals to continue to take all necessary 
measures  to  keep  the  trial  and  appeal  schedules  on 
track.  This  will  pave  the  way  for  successful  trials  for 
the remaining accused and the smooth implementation 
of an efficient Residual Mechanism.
Mr.  Nduhungirehe  (Rwanda):  Let  me  at 
the 
outset  thank    Judge  Theodor  Meron,  President  of  the 
International Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY), 
and Judge Vagn Joensen, President of the International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR),  for  their 
comprehensive  reports  on  the  completion  strategy  of 
their respective tribunals. 
Rwanda  commends  the  achievements  of  the  ICTR 
during  the  period  under  review,  despite  challenges  in 
staff retention and recruitment. Since its inception, the 
ICTR has delivered 74 trial judgements, including 44 by 
the Appeals Chamber. Moreover, eight cases have been 
transferred to Rwanda, including two cases of indictees 
in custody. Rwanda welcomes these developments and 
expresses its gratitude to the Tribunal for these referrals 
as a vote of confidence in Rwanda and its justice system.
As  indicated  in  the  ICTR  report  (A/67/253), 
Rwanda continued and will continue to cooperate with 
the  Tribunal.  The  Rwanda  Witness  Protection  Service 
continued  to  facilitate  access  to  witnesses  from  both 
sides, while ensuring their security and assisting their 
movement  from  and  to  Arusha.  My  Government  has 
also,  as  usual,  extended  support  to  investigations  and 
made available all relevant documents.
Rwanda  welcomes  the  decision  taken  by  the 
Government of Zimbabwe to launch a manhunt for the 
fugitive Protais Mpiranya, one of the masterminds of the 
Rwanda genocide perpetrated against the Tutsi in 1994. 
We  urge  other  countries  in  the  region  to  make  similar 
efforts  and  to  cooperate  with  the  ICTR  in  tracking, 
arresting  and  transferring  the  remaining  fugitives, 
particularly the most wanted, Félicien Kabuga.
Rwanda  also  welcomes  the  decision  taken  in 
January  by  the  Federal  Court  of  Canada  to  extradite 
Léon  Mugesera  to  Rwanda,  a  genocide  suspect  well 
known  for  his  November  1992  hate  speech  against 
the  Tutsi.  My  delegation  takes  this  opportunity  to 
encourage  all  Member  States,  particularly  in  Europe 
A/67/PV.24
and North America, to arrest and extradite all genocide 
fugitives and suspects living on their soil.
My  delegation  takes  note  of  the  commitment  of 
the  ICTR  to  continue  monitoring  the  cases  of  Father 
Wenceslas  Munyeshyaka  and  Laurent  Bucyibaruta, 
who  were  transferred  to  France  in  November  2007. 
However,  five  years  after  the  referral,  Rwanda  notes 
with  concern  the  delays  in  the  procedure  in  France. 
Therefore,  we  call  upon  the  ICTR  to  produce  a  more 
substantive  report  on  the  status  of  the  prosecutions  of 
the two cases. On this issue, we may recall that, under 
rule 11 bis of its Rules of Procedure, the ICTR has the 
right  and  the  duty  to  revoke  these  referrals  from  the 
French courts if those delays persist.
The  position  of  Rwanda  regarding  the  ICTR 
archives  is  well  known.  Our  country  believes  that 
the  ICTR  archives  should  remain  the  property  of  the 
United Nations. Genocide is a crime against humanity, 
and  it  is  right  and  appropriate  that  the  Organization 
representing  the  community  of  nations  keep  these 
records. Nonetheless, Rwanda has, on many occasions, 
formally  requested  to  host  these  United  Nations 
archives  in  Kigali  upon  completion  of  the  work  of 
the  International  Residual  Mechanism  for  Criminal 
Tribunals.  Indeed,  these  records  constitute  an  integral 
part  of  our  history  and  are  vital  to  the  preservation 
of  the  memory  and  education  of  younger  generations. 
The  location  of  the  archives  in  Rwanda  would  ensure 
easy  access  to  genocide  survivors,  researchers  and 
the  broader  international  community  with  a  view  to 
achieving the mission of the United Nations to promote 
peace and to ensure the prevention of genocide.
the 
the  support  of 
Eighteen  years  after  a  devastating  genocide, 
Rwanda,  with 
international 
community, has come a long way in delivering justice 
to  victims  and  promoting  reconciliation  in  Rwanda. 
The  community-based  jurisdictions,  or  gacaca,  were 
officially  closed  on  18  June  after  trying  more  than 
400,000  cases  and  fostering  truth  and  reconciliation. 
For its part, the ICTR is now in its final phase and has 
brought a number of genocide fugitives to book.
To  conclude,  our  Government  pays  tribute  to  its 
people and commends the ICTR and the Governments 
of sister countries that have contributed to the healing of 
our people and to the fight against impunity for serious 
crimes.  Rwanda,  as  a  candidate  for  a  non-permanent 
seat  on  the  Security  Council  this  coming  Wednesday, 
will  continue,  if  elected,  to  support  the  work  of  the 
12-54716
9
A/67/PV.24
ICTR and the Residual Mechanism to achieve the same 
goal.
Mr.  Norman  (Canada):  I  have  the  honour  of 
speaking today on behalf of New Zealand and Australia, 
as well as Canada (CANZ).
The CANZ countries wish to take this opportunity to 
express our strong support for the International Criminal 
Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR)  and  the  International 
Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY),  as  well 
as  for  the  newly  operational  International  Residual 
Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals,  and  to  encourage 
States to maintain their support for those institutions.
The  CANZ  countries  commend  the  significant 
achievements of the Tribunals to date, as well as their 
efforts to complete their remaining work by the end of 
2014, as set out in their respective completion strategies. 
The  record  of 
the  ICTY  speaks  for 
itself. 
Proceedings  have  already  been  concluded  for  126 
accused, with the remaining 35 currently at some stage 
of proceedings before the Court. The CANZ countries 
especially welcome the commencement of proceedings 
against the final two ICTY fugitives, Goran Hadžić and 
Ratko Mladić, who will now finally face justice for their 
actions.  We  support  the  ICTY’s  completion  strategy, 
and particularly its focus on the prosecution of the most 
senior leaders, with cases involving middle- and lower-
ranking accused being referred to national courts in the 
former Yugoslavia.
As  for  the  ICTR  and  its  significant  achievements, 
it  has  indicted  92  individuals,  although  nine  indictees 
remain  at  large.  We  call  upon  States  to  make  special 
efforts  to  ensure  that  those  fugitives  are  brought  to 
justice,  noting  that  the  cases  of  six  of  the  fugitives 
have been transferred to Rwanda, with the Mechanism 
retaining  jurisdiction  over  the  cases  of  Augustin 
Bizimana, Félicien Kabuga and Protais Mpiranya.
The CANZ countries recognize the excellent work 
of both Tribunals in involving domestic courts through 
training  programmes,  study  visits  and  the  referral 
of  certain  cases.  That  has  had  the  direct  effect  of 
increasing the capacity of local actors to handle serious 
international  crimes  and  other  major  cases.  Other 
beneficial  effects  include  the  strengthening  of  the 
rule of law and the fostering of reconciliation in those 
regions. We also acknowledge the outstanding outreach 
undertaken  by  both  Tribunals  to  make  judgements 
accessible  and  understandable  to  victims  and  affected 
communities.
(spoke in French)
The CANZ countries note with satisfaction that the 
branch  of  the  International  Residual  Mechanism  for 
Criminal  Tribunals  covering  functions  inherited  from 
the  ICTR  opened  for  work  in  July.  We  are  confident 
that  the  handover  of  functions  derived  from  the  ICTY 
on  1  July  2013  —  in  addition  to  its  work  undertaken 
to  prosecute  ICTR  fugitives,  conduct  appeal  and 
retrial  functions  and  trials  for  contempt  and  false 
testimony — will proceed just as smoothly. The CANZ 
countries wish to underscore the importance they attach 
to  the  Mechanism’s  work  relating  to  the  enforcement 
of  sentences,  witness  protection,  and  the  maintenance 
of  the  Tribunals’  archives,  which  are  critical  legacy 
functions.  The  CANZ  countries  urge  the  Mechanism 
to  prioritize  efficiency  in  operations  and  calls  on  the 
international  community  to  provide  the  Mechanism 
with  the  support  it  requires  to  fulfil  its  mandate 
effectively.
The  ICTY  and  ICTR  have  proved  their  value  by 
significantly  contributing  to  the  re-establishment  of 
the rule of law, by developing the jurisprudence in the 
area  of  major  international  crimes,  and  by  delivering 
effective  justice  to  victims  of  such  crimes.  The  work 
of  the  Tribunals  has  greatly  advanced  the  cause  of 
international  criminal  justice  and  will  lay  a  solid 
foundation  for  future  courts  and  tribunals.  Australia, 
New  Zealand  and  Canada  will  continue  to  offer  our 
full support and cooperation to the Tribunals and to the 
Mechanism in their pursuit of international justice and 
the rule of law.
Ms.  Prince  (United  States  of  America):  First, 
let  me  thank  President  Meron  of  the  International 
Tribunal  for  the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY)  and  of 
the  International  Residual  Mechanism  for  Criminal 
Tribunals,  and  President  Joensen  of  the  International 
Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR)  for  briefing  us 
today and for their continued service. We thank Judge 
Meron for his service as President of both the ICTY and 
the  Residual  Mechanism. We  are  proud  of  him  for  his 
service as a jurist and consider him to be a giant in the 
field of international criminal justice. We welcome the 
strong and valuable leadership of both Presidents.
Since the last presentation to the Security Council, 
the  International  Residual  Mechanism  for  Criminal 
Tribunals successfully began its functioning in July at 
its  Arusha  branch,  and  has  already  rendered  its  first 
decision.  The  transfer  to  the  courts  of  Rwanda  of  the 
case  of  ICTR  fugitive  Phénéas  Munyarugarama,  a 
10 
12-54716
A/67/PV.24
former  military  commander  in  the  Rwandan  army 
charged  with  genocide,  complicity  in  genocide,  and 
direct  and  public  incitement  to  commit  genocide  and 
multiple counts of crimes against humanity. 
We  welcome  Rwanda’s  willingness 
to  fairly 
adjudicate  transferred  cases  and  commend  the  ICTR 
for  arranging  for  the  monitoring  of  trials  in  Rwanda. 
A  strengthened  national  legal  and  justice  sector  will 
promote  the  long-term  rule  of  law  and  stability  in  the 
region.  We  call  on  all  States,  particularly  those  in  the 
Great  Lakes  region,  to  help  apprehend  the  remaining 
fugitives  and  bring  them  to  justice,  whether  through 
the  ICTR,  the  Residual  Mechanism  or  the  courts  of 
Rwanda.  Those  who  harbour  fugitives  put  themselves 
in  peril  and  are  only  delaying  the  inevitable.  We  urge 
all States Members of the United Nations to continue to 
search for them and cooperate in those efforts. 
their  efforts 
The  United  States  again  commends  the  Tribunal 
Presidents  for 
to  enact  cost-saving 
managerial  and  administrative  measures  in  the  ICTR, 
the  ICTY  and  the  International  Residual  Mechanism 
for Criminal Tribunals, and their efforts in transferring 
remaining  functions  of  the  Tribunals  to  the  Residual 
Mechanism.  Their  efforts  are  especially  important, 
given  the  unpredictability  of  the  trial  process,  which 
can affect the length and expense of trials and appeals. 
We again underline the need of the Security Council to 
remain f lexible in that regard. 
Turning to the ICTY, we note that the trial of Goran 
Hadžić  began  last  week.  Hadžić  was  the  last  ICTY 
indictee apprehended, and his is the final trial to begin. 
Now all of the ICTY indictees are or have been on trial. 
We  look  forward  to  the  ICTY  Prosecutor’s  report  at 
the  end  of  the  year  so  that  we  can  learn  more  about 
Serbia’s efforts to bring to justice those who hid Mladić, 
Hadžić  and  other  ICTY  fugitives,  and  who  frustrated 
attempts to bring them to justice for so many years. The 
Governments of the region must work more assiduously 
towards reconciliation, avoiding actions and statements 
that are meant to inf lame tensions rather than assuage 
them.  Their  records  of  cooperation  with  the  ICTY 
and one another, as well as their progress on domestic 
justice and accountability initiatives, will be critical in 
that regard.
We also note that it has been almost 20 years since 
the  Security  Council  established  the  ICTY  and,  later, 
the ICTR. Since then, those Tribunals have articulated 
a  robust  body  of  international  humanitarian  law,  and 
they represent a strong legacy in the international fight 
against impunity for those who commit atrocities. The 
defendants  convicted  in  Tribunal  proceedings  to  date 
have  been  tried  and  found  guilty  of  some  of  the  most 
heinous  crimes  known  to  humankind.  Thanks  to  the 
hard  work  of  the  Tribunals,  and  to  the  international 
community  for  funding  them,  the  world  now  knows 
about  those  crimes,  and  their  perpetrators  are  being 
held accountable for their actions.
In  addition,  there  are  now  archives  and  public 
records that will be accessible for generations to come, 
bringing  to  light  stories  that  would  otherwise  be  lost 
or  hidden  in  the  shadows.  This  information  is  critical 
to  combating  the  concerted  efforts  of  those  who 
seek  to  promote  an  alternative  historical  narrative  at 
variance  with  judicially  established  fact.  In  addition 
to combating impunity, the Tribunals’ contributions in 
the areas of local capacity-building and education will 
help  to  foster  long-term  peace  and  reconciliation.  The 
international  community  must  continue  to  fund  these 
archives and efforts to promote reconciliation.
The  United  States  remains  committed  to  working 
with  the  international  community  to  help  protect 
populations from atrocities. We continue to take action 
to  address  ongoing  atrocity  situations  and  urge  others 
to  do  so  as  well.  We  must  also  improve  our  national 
tools and collective efforts on prevention, response and 
accountability, with a focus on concrete results.
Mrs.  Mørch  Smith  (Norway):  Let  me  begin 
by  extending  our  sincere  thanks  and  appreciation 
to  the  Presidents  of  the  International  Tribunal  for 
Rwanda (ICTR) and the International Criminal Tribunal 
for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY), Judges Joensen and 
Meron,  respectively.  Their  briefings  today,  together 
with the Tribunals’ annual reports before us (A/67/253 
and  A/67/214),  ref lect  the  tireless  efforts  of  the  two 
Tribunals  to  successfully  complete  their  mandates.  It 
is our strong conviction that justice is a prerequisite for 
national  reconciliation  and  lasting  peace.  As  the  work 
of the two Tribunals draws to a close, there is no doubt 
that they have laid a strong foundation for international 
peace  and  justice  through  their  development  and 
enforcement of international criminal law.
Last year was marked by the arrests of the remaining 
fugitives from the Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia. 
This  was  a  historic  precedent,  demonstrating  that 
international  justice  can  indeed  be  delivered.  At  the 
same  time,  we  expressed  our  grave  concern  about  the 
relatively  high  number  of  outstanding  arrest  warrants 
from  the  Tribunal  for  Rwanda.  Unfortunately,  this 
12-54716
11
A/67/PV.24
number  does  not  seem  to  have  decreased  during  the 
reporting  period.  According  to  the  ICTR’s  annual 
report,  the  cooperation  and  support  of  some  Member 
States  are  essential  to  apprehending  three  fugitives 
who  have  yet  to  be  arrested.  However,  we  should  also 
take  into  account  that  six  other  cases  against  accused 
fugitives were referred to Rwanda during the reporting 
period. We strongly urge all States, especially those of 
the Great Lakes region, to intensify their efforts to help 
ensure the arrest of the remaining nine fugitives.
Concluding  the  remaining  proceedings  against 
those  indicted  without  delay,  while  at  the  same  time 
fully respecting international standards of due process, 
is a challenge shared by both Tribunals. We welcome the 
measures  taken  by  the  Tribunals  during  the  reporting 
period  to  increase  efficiency.  We  appreciate  the  fact 
that  they  have  made  substantial  progress  towards 
finalizing their trial and appeals work, notwithstanding 
serious  budgetary  and  staffing  constraints.  We  are  all 
grateful to the Tribunals’ staff for their commitment to 
fulfilling the Tribunals’ mandates.
If  the  Tribunals  are  to  successfully  conclude 
their  mandates,  they  must  still  depend  on  the  full 
cooperation of all States, and in particular the States of 
the  former  Yugoslavia  and  the  Great  Lakes  region.  In 
that regard, we commend the efforts made by Rwanda, 
with the support of the international donor community, 
to strengthen its national criminal judicial system. This 
has  allowed  the  ICTR  to  refer  eight  cases  to  Rwanda 
for  national  trials,  in  connection  with  the  ICTR’s 
completion  strategy.  We  now  trust  that  Rwanda  will 
put into practice the commitment it has made regarding 
its  good  faith,  capacity  and  willingness  to  enforce  the 
highest standards of international justice.
We are also pleased to note that cooperation between 
the  ICTY  and  the  countries  of  the  former  Yugoslavia 
was good during the reporting period. We are, however, 
concerned  about 
information  concerning  political 
statements  that  could  undermine  the  reconciliation 
effects  of  the  ICTY’s  legal  and  factual  findings  and 
national  efforts  to  prosecute  people  charged  with  war 
crimes.
The  continuing  fight  against  impunity  for  those 
who  committed  war  crimes  during  the  two  conf licts 
is  a  shared  responsibility,  and  will  not  end  with  the 
closure  of  the  two  Tribunals.  It  is  therefore  important 
to  foster  more  effective  cooperation  between  States, 
in  particular  between  the  countries  of  the  regions 
concerned,  and  to  strengthen  the  capacity  of  national 
judicial institutions to effectively handle the many war-
crime cases that remain to be prosecuted.
The  Arusha  branch  of  the  International  Residual 
Mechanism  for  Criminal  Tribunals  has  already  begun 
operating, and The Hague branch will open soon. The 
ICTR  has  already  handed  over  the  files  of  the  three 
high-level fugitives to the Prosecutor of the Mechanism. 
The  establishment  of  the  Mechanism  will  allow  these 
two  pioneering  Tribunals  to  close  without  fear  that 
impunity  will  prevail.  As  the  mandates  of  the  two  ad 
hoc Tribunals draw to a close, the Residual Mechanism 
will  have  an  important  role  to  play  in  ensuring  their 
long-term  legacy.  We  are  confident  that  the  work  of 
the  Tribunals  will  lead  the  way  in  the  continued  fight 
against impunity.
Mr. Manongi (United Republic of Tanzania): At the 
outset, let me join previous speakers in thanking Judge 
Vagn  Joensen,  President  of  the  International  Criminal 
Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR),  and  Judge  Theodor 
Meron,  President  of  the  International  Tribunal  for  the 
Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY),  for  presenting  the  annual 
reports  of  their  Tribunals  (A/67/253  and  A/67/214). 
We  note  with  gratitude  the  progress  made  in  the 
completion  strategies  of  the  ICTR  and  ICTY  during 
the  period  under  review.  We  take  this  opportunity 
once  again  to  congratulate  President  Theodor  Meron 
and  Prosecutor  Hassan  Jallow  on  their  appointments 
to  the  International  Residual  Mechanism  for  Criminal 
Tribunals.  The  Mechanism  will  benefit  immensely 
from their expertise and experience.
My delegation notes with satisfaction the progress 
made  by  both  of  the  Tribunals  in  expediting  their 
work as they wind down. Our appreciation goes to the 
Presidents  of  the  Tribunals,  the  judges  and  staff  for 
their outstanding work in finalizing the judicial activity 
within  the  required  time  frame.  The  reports  of  the 
Tribunals ref lect the concrete progress made thus far.
We  note  that  as  the  Tribunals  complete  their 
mandates,  the  recruitment  and  retention  of  staff 
continue  to  pose  major  challenges  to  the  work  of  the 
Tribunals.  While  noting  with  appreciation  measures 
taken  by  the  Department  of  Management  to  ensure 
the quick replacement of departing staff, we commend 
the  significant  achievements  made  by  both  Tribunals 
in  the  implementation  of  the  completion  strategy.  My 
delegation  therefore  supports  ICTR’s  appeal  to  the 
Secretariat  and  other  relevant  United  Nations  bodies 
12 
12-54716
to  work  closely  with  the  Registrars  of  the  Tribunals 
in  looking  for  more  practical  ways  of  addressing  the 
problem  of  staff  attrition.  We  support  the  idea  of 
providing adequate resources to make it possible for the 
Tribunals to complete their work in a timely manner.
My  delegation  is  pleased  that  the  Tribunals  have 
continued to further develop interaction and cooperation 
with  the  authorities  of  the  former  Yugoslavia  and 
Rwanda  to  support  domestic  war  crimes  prosecution. 
We look forward to seeing further enhancement of such 
cooperation in the prosecution of war crimes in a bid to 
end impunity.
The  cooperation  of  States  Members  of 
the 
United  Nations  would  also  be  helpful  in  the  transfer 
of  individuals  who  have  been  either  convicted  or 
acquitted, or those who have completed their sentences. 
The President of the ICTR has been making efforts to 
find  host  States  for  some  acquitted  persons  who  are 
under the Tribunal’s protection in Arusha. The issue of 
the  relocation  of  acquitted  and  convicted  persons  has 
assumed urgency in view of the pending closure of the 
Tribunal. We call upon States to consider positively the 
Tribunals’  request  for  more  support  and  cooperation. 
We  also  appeal  to  Member  States  to  provide  full 
cooperation  in  ensuring  that  fugitives  who  are  still  at 
large are finally brought to justice.
The  establishment  of  the  International  Residual 
Mechanism  is  significant  to  the  continued  protection 
of  the  rights  of  victims,  witnesses  and  persons  tried 
by  the  ICTR  and  ICTY  and  to  maintaining  the  legacy 
of  the  Tribunals.  Allow  me  to  commend  the  practical 
arrangements made by the Secretary-General, pursuant 
to Security Council resolution 1966 (2010), in ensuring 
that  the  operations  of  the  International  Residual 
Mechanism 
for  Criminal  Tribunals  begins.  The 
preparation  of  the  budget  of  the  Residual  Mechanism 
for  the  biennium  2012-2013  and  the  drafting  of  its 
Rules  of  Procedure  and  Evidence  are  testimony  to 
those efforts, which culminated in the inauguration of 
the Mechanism’s Arusha branch on 1 July. We wish to 
commend the Tribunal and the Office of Legal Affairs 
for their contribution to that endeavour. 
With active steps being taken by both the Secretary-
General  and  the  President  of  the  Mechanism,  it  is  our 
firm  conviction  that  the  Mechanism’s  Hague  branch 
will commence on 1 July 2013, as scheduled. We once 
again  call  upon  the  United  Nations  to  provide  the 
A/67/PV.24
necessary  support  to  make  the  smooth  functioning  of 
the Mechanism possible.
As  host  country  to  the  Mechanism’s  Arusha 
branch, we convey our appreciation to the international 
community for the trust and confidence bestowed upon 
the  Government  of  the  United  Republic  of  Tanzania, 
and  particularly  for  making  the  launching  of  the 
Mechanism  possible.  Tanzania  remains  ready  and 
willing  once  again  to  assume  its  obligations.  To  that 
end, we will continue follow up closely on all pending 
issues pertaining to the construction of the Mechanism’s 
Arusha  branch  building  on  the  land  allotted  to  it  with 
the urgency it deserves. The Government of the United 
Republic of Tanzania reiterates its continued support to 
the International Residual Mechanism.
In conclusion, the two decades of the Tribunals have 
made a commendable contribution to the development 
of  international  criminal  law.  As  the  work  of  the  ad 
hoc  Tribunals  winds  down,  the  International  Residual 
Mechanism  begins  to  take  shape.  The  proceedings, 
decisions and judgments of the Tribunals have provided 
indispensable  guidance  to  national  and  international 
courts.  The  lessons  learned  have  been  instrumental 
in disseminating the rule of law and the application of 
international  criminal  jurisprudence.  Now  it  is  up  to 
the  international  community  to  ensure  the  success  of 
that legacy through the Residual Mechanism.
Mr. Starčević (Serbia): Let me begin by welcoming 
the  President  of  the  International  Tribunal  for  the 
Former  Yugoslavia,  Judge  Theodor  Meron,  and  the 
President  of  the  International  Criminal  Tribunal  for 
Rwanda,  Judge  Vagn  Joensen,  and  thanking  them  for 
their  presentation  of  the  annual  reports  of  the  two 
Tribunals (A/67/253 and A/67/214).
In  connection  with  the  International  Tribunal  for 
the  Former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY),  I  would  like  to  point 
out that all the Government agencies of the Republic of 
Serbia in charge of cooperation with the ICTY maintain 
good  professional  relations  with  ICTY  representatives 
and  defence  teams  alike.  That  cooperation  has  been 
continuous,  smooth  and  successful.  My  country 
believes  that  full  cooperation  between  Serbia  and  the 
ICTY  has  been  achieved.  With  the  arrest  and  transfer 
to The Hague of Goran Hadžić on 22 July 2011, Serbia 
completed its cooperation with the ICTY regarding the 
transfer  of  indictees.  It  transferred  to  the  Tribunal  45 
out  of  46  persons  indicted  for  war  crimes;  one  person 
died before his transfer could be effected. Those persons 
12-54716
13
A/67/PV.24
included two former Presidents of the country, a former 
Prime  Minister,  a  former  Deputy  Prime  Minister, 
three former heads of the General Staff of the army of 
Yugoslavia, a former head of the State security service, 
and a number of military and police generals.
the 
interest  of 
Serbia  fully  understands 
the 
Tribunal  in  the  so-called  fugitive  aid  network.  The 
tracking  down  of  the  persons  who  took  part  in  aiding 
the fugitives is, first and foremost, of great importance 
to  my  country,  all  the  more  so  as  the  issue  burdened 
Serbia’s international position over a protracted period 
of time. Although we believe that the investigation and 
the processing of suspects is an internal question to be 
dealt  with  by  national  courts,  the  competent  Serbian 
authorities  will  continue  to  provide,  in  good  faith, 
information  to  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  about  the 
achieved results on a regular basis.
My  country  continues  to  cooperate  with  the 
Tribunal  Chambers,  the  Office  of  the  Prosecutor  and 
the Secretariat, as well as with defence teams regarding 
documentation,  State  archives  and  witnesses.  Almost 
all  requests  in  that  regard  have  been  fulfilled.  Only 
recent  ones  are  still  in  the  process  of  realization,  and 
the  new  requests  are  being  considered  without  delay. 
Serbia  will  continue  to  maintain  the  achieved  level  of 
that cooperation with the Tribunal.
Serbia  is  committed  to  establishing  the  full  truth 
about  crimes  committed  during  armed  conf licts  in 
the territory of the former Yugoslavia, which includes 
the  punishment  of  all  those  responsible  for  crimes, 
irrespective  of  their  nationality  or  the  nationality  of 
the  victims.  Therefore,  Serbia  is  fully  determined 
to  maintain  the  achieved  level  of  cooperation  with 
the  Tribunal  in  the  future  as  well,  including  the 
establishment  of  cooperation  with  the  International 
Residual Mechanism for Criminal Tribunals.
The results Serbia achieved in its cooperation with 
the  Tribunal,  including  the  fact  that  Serbian  national 
courts  have  so  far  processed  389  persons  indicted  for 
criminal  offences  against  international  humanitarian 
law,  are  telling  evidence  of  the  contribution  of  my 
country to the achievement of the goals and objectives 
of  the  ICTY  completion  strategy,  as  well  as  to  the 
process of the normalization of relations in the region.
Let me also say that my country maintains that our 
successful cooperation with the Tribunal gives us every 
right to continue to insist on the effective investigation 
into  the  allegations  of  the  crimes  of  killing  people  for 
the  purpose  of  organ  trafficking,  committed  by  the 
so-called Kosovo Liberation Army. Serbia expects that 
the ongoing investigation into the war crimes allegations 
contained  in  the  7  January,  2011,  report  of  Mr.  Dick 
Marty,  Council  of  Europe  Special  Rapporteur,  will  be 
conducted professionally, impartially and efficiently in 
order  for  the  truth  to  be  established  and  perpetrators 
brought  to  justice.  My  country  will  continue  to  insist 
on that.
Mr. Panin (Russian Federation) (spoke in Russian): 
We  thank  the  Presidents  of  the  Tribunals  for  the 
presentation of their reports. We appreciate the updated 
information on the progress of the work of both bodies 
in the current final stage of their mandate, largely within 
the  perspective  of  the  opening  in  July  of  the  Rwanda 
branch  of  the  International  Residual  Mechanism  for 
Criminal Tribunals and the forthcoming opening of the 
Yugoslav  branch.  We  note  in  that  context  the  efforts 
of  the  Tribunal  leadership  to  launch  the  Residual 
Mechanism  on  time  and  to  effectively  prepare  its 
Rules  of  Procedure  and  to  recruit  the  necessary  staff. 
Furthermore,  the  staff  of  the  Tribunals  deserve  high 
praise  for  their  ongoing  work  in  the  Tribunals  and the 
Residual Mechanism.
The  Tribunals  now  have  two  interrelated  tasks  to 
effectively  complete  the  remaining  elements  of  their 
mandate  and  to  complete  their  work  in  line  with  the 
timeline  set  out  in  Security  Council  resolution  1966 
(2010),  which  calls  for  a  speedier  transfer  of  cases  to 
the  Residual  Mechanism,  which  has  already  begun  to 
operate, and to national jurisdictions. 
The  Tribunals  are  delivering  justice  well  in  the 
trial jurisdictions. In the International Tribunal for the 
former  Yugoslavia  (ICTY),  there  are  no  major  delays 
in  consideration  of  the  Mladić  and  Hadžić  cases.  The 
International  Criminal  Tribunal  for  Rwanda  (ICTR), 
in  line  with  Security  Council  resolution  2054  (2012), 
has promised to complete its work on the Ngirabatware
case before the end of 2012. That will be its last case for 
trial proceedings.
There has been concern over the appeals of cases, 
which,  in  accordance  with  the  transition  provision  of 
the statute of the Residual Mechanism, will remain with 
the Tribunals. The Tribunals continue to have difficulty 
respecting the timetable for legal proceedings. We draw 
particular attention to the ICTY on the planned appeals 
in  the  cases  of  Prlić  et  al.,  Šešelj  and  Tolimir.  These 
probably  should  have  been  transferred  to  the  Residual 
14 
12-54716
A/67/PV.24
Mechanism,  but  even  if  they  remain  in  the  Appeals 
Court, they should be completed before the end of 2014. 
We  regret  the  fact  that  the  appeals  at  the  ICTR 
in  the  Nizeyimana  and  Nzabonimana  cases  have  not 
been transferred to the Residual Mechanism, although 
all  conditions  were  in  place  to  do  so.  The  time  gaps 
between  the  dates  of  sentencing,  making  defence 
appeals, and the opening of the Rwanda branch of the 
Residual  Mechanism  were  minimal  compared  with 
the  overall  time  scale  of  the  legal  proceedings,  which 
was  enormous.  However,  such  a  transfer  would  have 
allowed  them  not  only  to  reduce  the  workload  of  the 
Appeals  Court,  but  to  bring  up  to  speed  the  Residual 
Mechanism,  giving  it  time  for  a  warm-up  before 
receiving appeals from the ICTY.
In  conclusion,  I  note  the  significant  support 
received by the Tribunals from States in both regions. 
Serbia  has  demonstrated  a  high  level  of  cooperation 
with the ICTY. Serbia has launched investigations into 
how  Goran  Hadžić  and  Ratko  Mladić  were  able  to  be 
on  the  run  for  so  long  on  its  territory.  The  quality  of 
investigations should in no way be called into question, 
particularly  taking  into  account  the  fact  that  there 
are  already  enough  and  even  more  serious  problems 
associated  with  the  ICTY  and  ICTR. We  also  approve 
of the practical decision adopted by Rwanda, which has 
actively  cooperated  with  the  ICTR  by  assuming  cases 
under its jurisdiction.
The  Acting  President:  We  have  heard  the  last 
speaker in the debate on these agenda items. 
May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the  wish  of  the  Assembly 
to  take  note  of  the  seventeenth  annual  report  of  the 
International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is  the 
wish  of  the  Assembly  to  take  note  of  the  nineteenth 
annual  report  of  the  International  Tribunal  for  the 
former Yugoslavia?
It was so decided.
The  Acting  President:  May  I  take  it  that  it  is 
the  wish  of  the  General  Assembly  to  conclude  its 
consideration of agenda items 72 and 73?
It was so decided.
The meeting rose at noon.
12-54716
15
